REGISTERED No. D . 222 


LAN 


uwa 


mo 


The Gazette min 


S2 


of Endia 


X 


. 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 52 ) 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 26, 1964 /PAUSA $, 1886 


Separate paglog is given to this part in order that it may be filed 

as a separate compilation 


NOTICE 
Theundermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 14th December , 
1964 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Iagued by 


Subject 


311 S . O . 4233 , dated roth Decem - Ministry 
ber , 1964 . 

merce . 


of Com - Further amendments to the 

Export: (Control) Order, 1962 . 


312 


Do . 


S. O . 4234 , dated 14th Decem 
ber, 1964 . 


Further amendments to the 

Exports ( Contro ! Order , 1962 . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied om 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
thege Gazettes. 


PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section (ii) 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1964 
S . O . 4305. - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 23rd 
November, 1964 , by the Election Tribunal, Cuttack , 


4787 


4788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [PART II 


IN THE ELECTION TRIBUNAL AT CUTTACK 
PREBENT : 
SH SK. Sen , LC . S . (Retd .) - Member 

The 23rd November , 1964 

ELECTION PETITION No . 1 OF 1962 
Surendra Mohanty - Petitioner 

Versus 
Surendranath Dwivedy - Respondent 

ELECTION PETITION No. 34 OF 1964 
Benbeharf Mohanty - Petitioner 

Versus 
Surendranath Dwivedy & Surendra Mohanty - Respondenta 
La Election Petftfon No. 1 / 62 
For the petitioner in Election Petition No. 1 / 62 , 

1 . Ranjit Mohanty , Bar- at-law . 
2 Sarat Chandra Ghose , Advocate . 

& Blpin Behari Mohanty . 
For the respondent 

1 , N , C . Chatterji (Bar - at-law ). 
2. Asok Das , Advocate. 
3. Srinibas Misra ( L ). 
4 . S . K . Kundu . 
5 . Govind Das , Bar - at- law . 


8 . Bipin Behart Rath . 

9 . J . Brahma, 
In Election Petition No, 54 / 62 . 
For the petitioner 

1 . R K . Kar . 
2. S . N . Nitra , 

3 B K . Ray . 
Pot respondent No. 1 

1. Gavind Das, Bar- at-lan 
2. Asok Das. 
3 . L. Rath 

Bipin Behari Rath , 
5 . S . K . Kundu . 
For respondent No. 2 
1, Ranjit Mohanty , Bar -at-law . 

JUDGMENT 
These two cases arise out of two election petitions challenging the election of the 
same candidate , Surendranath Dwivedy , at Kendrapara Parliamentary Constituency 
within the district of Cuttack at the last general election held in February, 1982 . 


Kendrapara Parliamentary Constituency , namely , Surendra Mohanty belonging to 
the Congress party and Surendra Nath Dwivedy belonging to the Praja Socialist 
Party , Surendra Nath Dwivedy was the sitting member of the Lok Sabha from 
Kandrapara, having been elected in 1957 as a member of the Praja Socialist Party . 


JEC , $(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1888 


4789 


. 


Surendra Mohanty was also a sitting member of the Lok Sabha , but he had been 
elected in 1957 from another constituency , viz . Dhenkanal, as a member of the 
Genatantra Party. Sometime after his election in 1957, Surendra Mohanty accepted 
Appointment as a highly paid officer under one of the firms under the control of 
Bljoyananda Patnaik who was for some time the Chief Minister of Orissa and 
President of Utkal Provincial Congress Committee ; and he ceased to be a member 
of the Ganatantra Party and joined the Congress Party . 

Kendrapara Parliamentary Constituency consists of seven Assembly Consti 
tuency areas , but at the general election in 1962 , there was election only to the 
Parliamentary seats in Orissa ; a general election had already been held for Orissa 
Legislative Assembly in June - July , 1961, referred to by some witnesses as the Mid 
term Assembly Election . In respect of the Parliamentary election of 1962 different 
dates for polling were Axed in the different Assembly Constituency areas by a 
notification published by the Chief Electoral Officer , Orissa, in the Orissa Gazette of 
January 30 , 1962. The names and numbers of the Assembly Constituencies and the 
different dates f] xed for polling appear from the following table : 

104 Mahanga - 25 - 2 -62 
105 Salepur - 21- 2 -62 
107 Ersama - -21- 2 -62 
108 Tirtol - - 23- 2 - 62 
109 Patkura - 21- 2-62 
110 Rajnagar - - 23 - 2-62 

112 Kendrapara — 23 - 2 -62 . 
Polling was held accordingly in each Assembly Constituency . For convenience of 
voting by the electors a large number of booths or polling stations was set up in 
each Assembly Constituency , the number of polling stations being as follows : 

104 Mahanga - 69 
105 Salepur -_ 71 
107 Ersama - 71 
108 Tirtol - 60 
109 Patkura - - 56 
110 Rajnagar - 69 
112 Kendrapara - - 77 


473 


The counting of votes took place on two days i. e . 26th and 27th of February , 
1962. Counting was held at two places on each of these two days , namely , at the 
Counting Hall within the office premises of the Subdivisional Officer, Kendrapara , 
described by some witnesses as the Election Hall, and at the Municipal Hall of 
Kendrapara situated at a short distance from the Subdivisional Office premises . 
On completing the counting It was found that Surendranath Dwivedy had recelved 
99, 391 votes and Surendra Mohanty had received 99 , 325 votes , while 91, 36 votes 
were rejected . Surendranath Dwivedy thus won by a narrow margin of 68 votes , 
and the result was declared in the evening of 27th February , 1962 by P . R . Chandra , 
Additional District Magistrate , Cuttack , as Assistant Returning Omcer who had 
been authorised by the District Magistrate , who was the Returning Officer , to 
declare the result of the Parliamentary election at Kendrapara . 

Even hefore the result had been declared . Surendranath Dwivedy sent a tele 
gram to the Election Commission of India , alleging that when after counting ballot 
papers in the ballot boxes It had been found that he was leading by 81 votes , and 
only 30 postal ballot papers remained to be counted , the Assistant Returning 
Officers had absented themselves for about an hour from the Counting Hall, attend 
ing to telephone calls from the Chief Minister ; and that he apprehended manipula 
tion of the ballot papers to defeat him ; he requested the taking of immediate action 
by the Election Commission (Ex , AA ) . Even after the result in his favour had 
been declared by the Assistant Returning Officer , P . R . Chandra, Surendranath 
Dwivedy sent another telegram to the Election Commission on 1st March 1982, 
alleging that after the declaration of the result the Government was making 
feverish efforts to tamper with the ballot boxes and ballot papers , and praying 
that Election Commission take charge of the ballot boxes and the ballot papers 
(Ex , AA ) , Surendra Mohanty also sent some telegrams to the Election Commission , 
On 28th February 1962 he sent a telegram alleging that the Assistant Returning 
Officer had Arst announced that he ( Surendra Mohanty ) had obtained a lead of 
212 votes, but immediately thereafter the Assistant Returning Officer was closetted 


4790 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 8 , 1886 [PART II 


with Surendranath Dwivedy and an unauthorised horde of his supporters and was 
prevailed upon to recalculate the figures, and then the Assistant Returning Officer 
had announced that Dwivedy had obtained a lead of 66 votes and had declared the 
result without passing any order on two petitions for recounting which had been 
fled by Surendra Mohanty (Ex . VIII ). On 2nd March , 1962 Surendra Mohanty 
sent another telegram to the Election Commission complaining that many irre 
gularities had been committed in counting the votes , that votes in favour of the 
Congress candidate had been wrongly counted " in favour of the P . S . P . candidate , 
that votes cast in favour of the Congress candidate had been wrongly rejected and 
that in similar circumstances votes had been taken as valid votes in favour of the 
P . S . P . candidate , Surendra Mohanty sought immediate intervention of the Election 
Commission ( Ex . IX ) . He also Aled a writ petition before the Orissa High Court 
on 28th February, 1962 for an injunction directing the Returning Officer to recount 
the ballot papers, but this writ petition was summarily dismissed on 2nd March , 
1962 . 


The Election Commission on receiving the telegrams called for a report from 
the District Magistrate , Cuttack who was the Returning Officer for the Parliamen 
tary Constituencies in the district of Cuttack . The District Magistrate after obtain 
Ing a report from the Assistant Returning officer , P . R . Chandra , submitted a 
report to the Election Commission in the form of a Confidential letter dated 8th 
March , 1962 (Ex , CC ). The Election Commission passed an order on the 9th March , 
1962 (Ex . E ) directing that the Chief Electoral Officer, Orissa , to take charge of 
the used ballot papers of Kendrapara Parliamentary Constituency and other papers 
relating to that Constituency , and keep them in safe custody . The District Magis 
trate , Cuttack had already taken charge of the used ballot papers of the constitu 
ency , and had the eight steel boxes or containers containing them transferred from 
Kendrapara Şub - Treasury to Cuttack Treasury Strong Room , The Chief Electoral 
Officer , Orissa, on receipt of the Election Commission s order , put his own seals on 
the containers and directed that they should be kept in the Treasury Strong Room 
at Cuttack . He took charge of other election papers from Kendrapara Sub - Trea 
sury and had them placed in the Treasury Strong Room at Cuttack . 


In the meantime Surendra Mohanty Aled an election petition under section 81 
of the Representation of the People Act 1951. This petition was Aled before the 
Election Commission on 6th March , 1962 and published in the Gazette of India on 
March 17, 1962. Case No . 1 of 1962 is based on this election petition . A second 
Election petition was Aled by Banbehari Mohanty , who described himself as an 
elector of the Kendrapara Parliamentary Constituency , on 9th April, 1962; and 
this election petition was published in the Gazette of India on April 21, 1962, Case 
No. 54 of 1962 is based on this election petition . These two Election Petitions were 
referred for a joint trial to an Election Tribunal appointed for the purpose . Mr. 
Brij Mohan Lall was the first Member of this Election Tribunal and took charge 
on 1st April, 1982 ; he resigned at the end of February , 1963. Thereafter Mr. D . N . 
Roy was appointed as a Member of the Tribunal and he took charge on 6th May , 


Thereafter on being appointed as member of the Election Tribunal, I took charge 
on 4th August , 1964 , 


In his election petition Surendra Mohanty made the prayers that the election 
petition be referred to an Election Tribunal and that the Tribunal may declare the 
election of the returned candidate , Surendranath Dwivedy , as void after recount 


the Parliamentary constituency of Kendrapara . The petitioner averred that he 
had been given notice that the counting of ballot papers would take place in the 
premises of the office of the Subdivisional Officer , Kendrapara, but the counting 
took place in one room of the office of the Subdivisional Officer , Kendrapra , and 
at a different place outside the office of the Subdivisional Officer , namely in the 
Municipal Hall of Kendra para , and that the counting in the Municipal Hall was 
unauthorised and the petitioner had been prejudiced as it was not possible for 
him to keep himself in touch at the two places to kcep watch over the counting . 
The petitioner also averred that there were some counting clerks who had definite 
bias against the petitioner and who deliberately resorted to mal practices . The 
petitioner mentioned that from one ballot box 300 and odd valid votes had come out 
in favour of the petitioner and 100 and odd valid votes had come out in favour 
of Surendranath Dwivedy , but in Form 20 , 300 and odd valid votes had been 
recorded in the name of Surendranath Dwivedy and 100 and odd valid votes in 
the name of the petitioner ; and that a Counting Agent of the petitioner , Pursottum 
Naik pointed out the wrong recording , and the Assistant Returning Officer after 
checking the ballot papers corrected the record after nearly one hour. The peti 
tioner averred that such wrong recording must have been done in other cases 
which remained undetected . 


SEC. 3 ,11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4791 


The petitioner further averred that after counting was completed it was 
announced that the petitioner had won by 212 votes and the news had been 
flashed to different news agencies and that thereafter the congress supporters 
left the place in jubilation ; and thereafter a large number of unauthorised per 
sons under the leadership of Surendranath Dwivedy marched up to the chamber 
of the Subdivisional Officer where P . R . Chandra , the Assistant Returning Oncer 
was sitting ; that P . R . Chandra and the Sub -divisional Officer , Kendrapara shut 
the door of the chamber and discussed something but the P . S . P . supporters 
banged the door leaves of the chamber and made a violent noise ; and when the 
door of the chamber was opened , P , R Chandra was almost bodily lifted to the 
Counting Hall where he was made to sign the announcement and the declara 
tion that Surendra Dwivedy had won by 6 votes , without affording a reasonable 
opportunity to the petitioner for asking for a ręcount and without passing any 
order on two petitions filed on behalf of the petitioner for recount in complcte 
disregard of rule 63 of the Conduct of Election Rules . The petitioner also averred 
that he believed that P . R . Chandra had subsequently made some attempts to 
regularise his illegal action by writing some orders subsequent to the declaration . 
The petitioner stated that he was confident that if therc had been a recount he 
would have been found to have won by a few thousand votes . 

Substantially , therefore , the petitioner claimed that the result of the election 
had been materially affected by non - compliance with the provisions of the Conduct 
of Election Rules , particularly rule 63 , and that therefore the election was void 
under section 100 sub -section ( 1 ) clause ( d ) sub - clause ( iv ) of the Representation 
of the People Act 1961. He claimed ręcount of votes and asserted that he was 


valid votes . He also claimed to declare as duly elected , 

The respondent, Surendranath Dwivedy , Aled a recrimination under section 
97 of the Representation of the People Act 1951 (hereinafter called the Act ) on 
18th April, 1962 and he fled his written statement on 2nd June, 1962. In the 
statement and particulars required under section 97 of the Act, the respondent 
alleged that Surendra Mohanty who was the candidate on behalf of the Congress 
party had committed extensive bribery and exercised undue influence through the 
length and breadth of the constituency during the period before polling , and that 
he had done so in collusion with Bijoyananda Patnaik , the then Congress Chief 
both in the Legislature and the Party , and Biren Mitra , the then Deputy Chief 
Minister of Orissa , and that even if the petitioner had been elected his election 
would have been void on account of such corrupt practice. Particulars of such 
corrupt practice were furnished in paragraphs 8 to 14 of the statement and parti 
culars under section 97 of the Act. It is not necessary to specify them here as 
they will appear sufficiently from the issues and discussion of the issues . In the 
recrimination the respondent , Surendranath Dwivedy , also challenged the claim 


be found to have won by several thousand valid votes . The respondent stated 
in paragraph 16 of his statement under section 97 that if votes of both 
the candidates are scrutinised by the same standard , whatever standard be applied 
the petitioner would never be found to have got a majority of valid yotes . The 
recrimination , therefore, falls under two broad heads, namely that even if the 
petitioner were elected his election would be void on account of corrupt practice ; 
and if votes of both the parties are scrutiniscd by the same standard , the respon 
dent will always be found to have got a majority of votes . 

In his written statement the respondent claimed that the election petition did 
not disclose any cause of action . He averted that the Returning Oficer duly 
notified on 10th February, 1962 that the counting would take place at two places 
namely , the premises of the Sub -divisional Omcer s office building, Kendrapara , 
and the Municipal Hall, and that it was not correct that the counting in the Muni 
cipal Hall was unauthorised . The respondent denied that any of the Counting 
staff showed any bias for or against any of the candidates . He averted that the 
mistake in recording the number of votes obtained by the two candidates in a 
particular polling station was inadvertent, and that the mistake was rectifled as 
soon as it was pointed out, and that this showed the bona Ade character of the 
work of the Counting authorities, and that there was no reason whatever to think 
that such mis - recording had been made and gone undetected in respect 


parties present at both the places of Counting to check and point out such 
mistakes if any . The respondent denied that it had ever been announced that the 
petitioner had won by 212 votes, and claimed that there was therefore no reason 
for the Congress supporters to leave the place in jubilation . The respondent 
denied that Surendranath Dwivedy or his supporters had rushed into the Counting 
Hall or upto the chamber of the Subdivisional Officer and banged at the door of 
his chamber or that P . R . Chandra had been almost bodily lifted and taken to the 


4792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUŞA 5 , 1886 


PART II 


place of counting and made to sign an announcement or declaration in favour of 
the respondent or that P , R . Chandra had given no reasonable opportunity to ask 
for a recount. The respondent claimed that the provisions of rule 63 and other 
rules of the Conduct of Election Rules had been duly complied with and that 
there was therefore no occasion for the prayer for a recount of the votes . The 
respondent averred that such prayer for recount by a Tribunal was not authorised 
by the law . The respondent prayed that the election petition should be dismissed 
with costs . 

After hearing both the sides the following issues were framed by the Tribunal 
on 9th June, 1962, 

1. Whether the announcement made under rule 63 ( 1 ) of the Conduct of Elec 
tion Rules 1961 was in petitioner s favour ? 

2 . Whether force was used by the respondent or his companions and whether 
Mr, P . R . Chandra, Assistant Returning Officer was coerced to prepare false record 
declaring the respondent elected ? 

3. Whether applications for recounting had been made by the petitioner ? Did 
they remain undisposed of ? 

4 . Whether the provisions of Rules 63 have been contravened ? 
6 . Whether the Tribunal is incompetent to recount the votes ? 
8 . Whether petition does not make out a prima facie case ? 
7 . Whether recriminations Aled under section 97 were beyond limftation ? 

8 . Whether the petitioner was guilty of various acts of bribery mentioned in 
para 8 of the recriminations ? 

9 . Whether the petitioner was guilty of various acts of undue influence men 
tioned in para 9 of the recriminations ? 

10 . Whether the yehicles mentioned in para 11 of the recriminations were hired 
or procured in manner prohibited by law ? 

11. Whether the petitioner engaged workers who were paid something as their 
remuneration beyond their actual expenses ? Did that act amount to corrupt 
practice ? 

12 . Whether items of expenditure which should have been included in the peti 
tioner s Return of Election expenses have been omitted therefrom ? If so, how does 
that affect the case ? 

13 . Whether the total amount incurred or authorised by the petitioner exceeds 
the prescribed maximum of Rs. 25 ,000 . 

14 . Whether the petitioner took the help of Block Development Oncers as 
mentioned in para 14 of the recriminations ? 

15 . Whether Government machinery was utilised in favour of the petitioner to 


16 . Whether the respondent s election is llable to be set aside ? 
17. Whether the petitioner is entitled to be declared elected ? 

After the issues had been framed , the respondent Surendranath Dwivedy Aled 
a petition on 30th June, 1962 , praying that notices be issued to Bijoyananda Patnaik 
and Biren Mitra under section 99 of the Act, so that a finding as to corrupt prac 
tice might be recorded against them if proved by evidence. This application was 
Tejected as premature by an order of the Tribunal dated 7th July , 1962. The res 
pondent moved the High Court against that order , but the motion was rejected . 
It may be mentioned here that such a prayer for giving notice to Bijoyananda 
Patnaik and Biren Mitra was repeated before me on 15th September , 1964 after 
recording of evidence was nearly complete, and this prayer was rejected by me 
by an order dated 25th September , 1984. 


On 7th July , 1962 the petitioner Surendra Mohanty filed an application for 
amendment of paragraph 13 of his election petition by adding the averinent that 
a large number of votes which were cast in favour of the petitioner vere illegally 
rejected or counted in favour of the respondent and a large number of votes were 
illegally and improperly counted in favour of the respondent; that numerous ballot 
papers which bore marks by which the electors could be identified and ballot 


papers on which no votes were recorded and bailot papers in which yota Yere 
given for more than one candidate , and damaged or mutilated ballot papers were 
counted in favour of Surendranath Dwivedy , and this had materialy fected the 
result of the election . On the same date i. e ., 7th July , 1982, the petitioner also 


tion for amendment of para 13 of the election petition was rejected by the Tabu 
Dal by its order dated 14th July , 1982, with the observation that the allegations 
sought to be added by the amendment had not been made in the original election 
petition , and that they would be entirely new grounds of attack and would change 
the nature of the case . In the meantime such allegations had been made in the 
election petition Aled by Banbehari Mohanty . The Tribunal in its order dated 
1.4th July , 1962 mentioned that fact, but observed that that was no reason why 
similar grounds of attacks should be permitted to be added to Surendra Mohanty s 
election petition . The application for inspection of ballot papers by the petitioner 
Surendra Mohanty was also rejected by an order of the Tribunal dated 18th 
August, 1962. 

The petitioner of the second election petition is Banbebari Mohanty . In his 
election petition he repeated the averments made by Surendra Mohanty tu the 
latters election petition . In addition Banbehari Mohanty took the grounds that 
numerous ballot papers were illegally and improperly accepted in favour of 
Surendranath Dwivedy in contravention of rule 56 sub - rule ( 2 ) of the Conduct of 


Surendra Mohanty were rejected ; and that before rejection of ballot paperg the : 
Counting Agents of Surendra Mohanty were not given reasonable opportunity to 
Inspect them , and the grounds of rejection were not recorded on the ballot papers 
by the Returning Officer. In addition , this petitioner made certain allegations of 
corrupt practices against the returned candidate Surendranath Dwivedy e . g . that - 
bullock carts were hired by Surendranth Dwivedy or with his consent by his 
agents for carrying electors to some polling booths; that Surendranath Dwivedy 
or with his consent his agents committed certain acts of bribery ; that the services 
of a Government servant Jadunath Kar were utilised for his election propaganda; 
that a polling agent of Surendranath Dwivedy was allowed to perform the func 
tions of the Polling Officer in the Balisahi booth of Salepur constituency ; that votes . 
were recorded at Ranigada booth of Mahanga constituency even after the closing 
hours and so on . It is not necessary to give further details of these allegations, as : 
they will appear from the issues , and the discussion thereof; and most of these 
allegations were not pressed at the hearing . This petitioner also averred that 
P . R . Chandra had not been validly appointed as Assistant Returning Officer and 
that he had not counted all the postal ballot papers received at the Parliamentary 
constituency . In this election petition also the prayers were that the election of 
Surendranath Dwivedy should be declared vold and that Surendra Mohanty whos 
was impleaded as respondent No. 2 should be declared as duly elected . 

Surendranath Dwivedy , respondent No. 1 in this case . Aled his recrlotontorr 
under section 97 of the Act on 30th May , 1962, and he filed his written statement 
on 9th June, 1962. The recrimination Aled in this case is more or less on the game 
lines as the recrimination filed on Case No . 1. In the written statement all the 
allegations of corrupt practice alleged against Surendranath Dwivedy were denied 
and the irregularities alleged against the Assistant Returning Officer were also 
denied . Respondent No. 1 also averred that the petitioner of this case , Banbehart 
Mohanty , was not an elector and that his election petition was liable to be dis 
missed . 

After the petitioner Banbehari Mohanty had Aled a rejoinder to the recrimina 
tion , the following issues were settled after hearing both the parties , on 4th 
August , 1962 . 


ISSUES 


1 . Whether the petition fails to comply with the provisions of sections 81, 82 , 

83 and 117 of the Representation of the People Act of 1951. If so , how 

does that affect the case ? 
2. Whether the petitioner is not an elector ? If so what is its 
3 . Whether any ballot papers were found missing from the ballot boxes ! It 

so , how many ? How does that affect the case ? 
4 . Whether any ballot papers was wrongly cancelled ? 
5 . Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 were wrongly rejected 

or refused ? 


4794 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 194 / PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART II 


8 . Whether invalld votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were wrongly 

favour into account? 
7 . Whether counting of votes took place at places other than these pre 


8 . Whether sub -rules ( 2 ) and (4 ) of Rule 56 were not complied with ? If so , 

what is its effect on the case ? 
9 . Whether announcement made under rule 63 ( 1 ) of the Conduct of Election 

Rules 1961 was in favour of respondent No. 2 ? 
10 . Whether force was used by respondent No. 1 or his companions and 

whether Mr. P . R . Chandra , Assistant Returning Officer was coerced 

to prepare false record declaring the respondent No. 1 elected ? 
11. Whether applications for recounting had been made by respondent 

No. 2 ? Did they remain undisposed of ? 
12. Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No . 2 have been counted as 

votes cast in favour of respondent No, 1 ? 
13 . Whether all postal ballot papers were not counted ? 
14. Whether Mr. P . R . Chandra was not valldly appointed Assistant Return 

ing Officer ? If so , what is its effect ? 
15 . Whether voters of the areas mentioned in paras 36 to 38 of the petition 

were deprived of their right of vote because of the non -avallability 

of the original or additional list of voters ? 
16 . Whether votes were recorded in Ranigaga booth in Mahanga Assembly 

Constituency even after the expiry of hours of polling ? If so , how 

many such votes were recorded ? 
17 . Whether the polling agent of respondent No . 1 in the Ballshahi booth 

of the Salepur Assembly Constituency was performing the functions 
of the Polling Officer or was canvassing for respondent No. 1 or was 

exhibiting his symbol ? If so , how does that effect the case? 
18 . Whether the Tribunal is incompetent to recount the votes ? 
19. Whether bullock carts were hired or procurred for carrying electors as 

alleged in paras 44 and 55 of the petition ? If so , is respondent No. 1 
affected by the act of the persons who hired or procurred the said 
conveyances ? Does that constitute corrupt practice under section 

123 ( 6 ) of the Act ? 
20 . Whether respondent No. 1 or his agents or any other person with the 

consent of respondent No. 1 published the pamphlet entitled " Nakilt 

Congresslaku Thikana Jabab " and " Kahaku Vote Deba " ? 
21. Whether the publications mentioned in the last preceding Issue amount 

to corrupt practice as defined in Section 123 (4 ) of the R .P . Act ? 
22. Whether respondent No. 1 or his agent or others with his consent com 

mitteed acts of bribery mentioned in paras 48 , 52, 53, 54 , 56 and 58 

of the petition within the meaning of section 123 ( 1 ) of the R . P . Act ? 
23 . Whether respondent No. 1 performed the acts mentioned in para 49 of 

the petition and thereby committed corrupt practice as defined in 

section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act? 
24 . Whether respondent , his agent or other persons with his consent perform 

ed acts mentioned in para 50 of the petition , and thereby committed 


of the Act ? 
25 . Whether Jadunath Kar convassed for respondent No. 1 and induced the 

voters to vote for respondent No . 1 at the instance of resondent 
No. 1 , his agent or other persons acting with his consent? Did he 

accompany respondent No. 1 to villages Harisani, Dhaniganda ? 
26 . Whether Jadunath Kar hold any office under the Government ? If 80 

what? 
27. Whether the taking of assistance from Jadunath Kar amounted to corrupt 

practice as defined in section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act ? 


3( li )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1964 / PAUSA 8, 1886 


4795 


29 . Whether respondent No. 2 or his agents or any other person with his 

consent committed various acts of bribery alleged in paras 8 ( c ) to 

8 ( v ) of the Recrimination ? 
30 . Whether respondent No . 2 or his agent or any other person with his 

consent committed acts of undue influence mentioned in paras 9 ( a ) 

to 9 ( c ) ? 
31. Whether respondent No. 2 , his agents or other persons with his congent 

hired or procured the vehicles mentioned in paras 11 ( a ) to 11 ( e ) of 


37. Whether here to re 


ad the 


hand om te wetens 


32 . Whether respondent No. 2 engaged workers who were paid something as 

remuneration beyond their actual expenses ? Did that act amount 

to corrupt practice ? 
33. Whether items of expenditure which should have been included in the 

Return of Election Expenses of respondent No, 2 have been omitted 

therefrom ? If so , how does that affect the case ? 
34. Whether the total amount incurred or authorised by respondent No . 2 

exceeds the prescribed maximum of Rs. 25 ,000 / - ? 
35 . Whether respondent No. 2 or his agents or other persons with his con 

sent took the help of Block Development Officers as mentioned in 

para 14 of the Recrimination ? If so , how does that affect the case ? 
36 . Whether Government machinery was utilised in favour of respondent 

No , 2 to help him in his election campaign ? 
37. Whether respondent No. 2 had issued instructions to his agents and 

workers to act in accordance with law and whether corrupt practices 
were committed , if any , contrary to his order and without his con 
sent and whether he had taken all reasonable means of preventing 

the commission of the said corrupt practices ? 
38 . Whether the result of election was materially affected by the corrupt 

practices committed by either respondent No. 1 or respondent No. 2 

or their agents or persons acting with their consent? 
39. Whether the elections of respondent No. 1 is liable to be set aside ? 

40 . Whether respondent No. 2 is entitled to be declared elected ? 

The petitioner in this case also applied for permission to inspect the used 
ballot papers . The petition was opposed by the respondent Surendranath Dwivedy . 
The Tribunal in its order dated 18th August 1962 ( the date on which the appli 
cation of Surendra Mohanty for inspection was rejected ) allowed the prayer of 
the petitioner Banbehari Mohanty for inspection of the used ballot papers, point 
ing out that the petitioner had to specify which valid ballot papers had been 
wrongly rejected , which invalid ballot papers had been wrongly accepted and 
which votes in favour of Surendra Mohanty had been wrongly counted in favour 
of Surendranath Dwivedy and that he could not furnish the particulars unless 
Inspection allowed . The Tribunal in this connection relied on the Supreme Court 
decision Bhim Sen Versus Gopali and others, XXII E . L . R . 288 . The respondent 
Surendranath Dutvedy Aled an appeal before the Orissa High Court against the 
order of the Tribunal allowing inspection , but by an order dated 5th September 
1962 the High Court held that the Tribunal had been right to follow the obser 
vations of the Supreme Court in Bhim Sen Versus Gopali and otherg , and had 
permitted inspection of the ballot papers after providing necessary safeguards, 
and that similar facilities were also allowed to the resondent, and that in the 
circumstances their Lordships saw no reason for Interference , It should be 
mentioned that when the petitioner s application for inspection of ballot papers was 
allowed on 18th August 1962, Respondent Surendranath Dwivedy Alled an appli 
cation on 29th August 1962 for being permitted to make similar inspection , and 
this was allowed by an order of the Tribunal on 21st August 1962 , and this 18 
what was referred to by their Lordships of the Orissa High Court. The Tribunal 
by further orders laid down the procedure for inspection , which was to be con 
ducted by the District Magistrate of Cuttack or by a responsible Magistrate to be 
deputed by him . Inspection of the ballot papers by the two parties actually com 
menced on 15th September 1962. For 8 days the District Magistrate of Cuttack , 
C . Venkataramani ( D . W . 4 ), himself conducted the inspection . Thereafter he 
handed over the work of conducting the Inspection to his Additional District 


4796 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 /PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART 1 


Magistrates S . N . Rath , Additional District Magistrate (D . W . 18 ) conducted the 
Inspection for 15 days , and U . P . Guru , another Additional District Magistrate 
( D . W . 19 ) conducted the inspection for another 15 days. Altogether the inspection 
lasted for 38 working days and was completed on 10th November, 1962 . On 26th 


ment of his election petition by adding particulars of the ballot papers alleged to 
have been improperly rejected , or received or counted . Respondent Surendranath 
Dwivedy filed an objection to the petitioner s application for amendment. He 
also Aled a similar application for amendment of his recrimination petitions by 
adding particulars of ballot papers which according to him had been improperly 
rejected or received or counted , The Tribunal after hearing both the parties 
allowed both the applications for amendment, so that the election petition of 


in both the cases were amended by adding annexures containing lists of ballot 
papers which according to this parties were wrongly rejected or wrongly recefved 
or wrongly counted . 

Thereafter on 19th December 1962 the following 3 additional issues were 
framed in both the cases ; 


Additional issues in Election Petition No. 1 / 1962 
1 . Whether valid votes cast in favour of respondent were wrongly rejected ? 
2 . Whether invalid votes cast in favour of petitioner were wrongly taken 

into account ? and 
3 . Whether votes cast in favour of respondent were counted as votes for 

petitioner. 


Additional issues in Election Petition No. 54 / 1962 
1. Whether valld votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were wrongly 

rejected ? 
2 . Whether invalid votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 were wrongly 

taken into account? and 
3. Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were counted as votes 

for respondent No. 2 ? 
The petitioner Banbehari Mohanty Aled an application at this stage for dis 
pensing with oral evidence and for holding a recount of all the ballot papers , 
contending that the inspection , had revealed errors both in the matter of acceptance 
and rejection of ballot papers , and sufficient case had therefore been made out 
for recount, which would considerably shorten the proceedings . This application 
was , however, rejected by the Tribunal on 22nd December 1962, it being held 
that oral evidence must be taken frst by the Tribunal before the question of re 
count of all the ballot papers could be considered , 

The cases therefore proceeded to trial , which was somewhat delayed owing to 
the changes of the Incumbent of the Election Tribunal. By his order dated 5th 
June 1963, Mr, D . N . Roy settled the order in which witnesses would be examined 
viz . that witnesses for the petitioner in Case No. 1 / 62 and thereafter witnesses for 
the petitioner in Case No. 54 / 62 would be examined , on the main case made out 
in the Election petitions; that then the witnesses for the respondent Surendranath 
Dwivedy on the main case would be examined ; that thereafter, the evidence bear 
ing on the recrimination in the two cases would be recorded , the respondent leading 
his evidence Arst and then the petitioners giving rebutting evidence . This pro 
cedure has been followed in recording the evidence except that I decided to take 
up the evidence on the main case of the petitioners together and not separately . 

On the completion of the examination of the witnesses for the respondent, an 
application was Aled on 16th September 1964 by the respondent for framing an 
additional issue as to tampering with the ballot papers and the evidentiary value 
thereof; and after hearing both sides the following additional issue was framed on 
that date : - 


Additional issue framed on 16 -9 -64 
1 . Were the used ballot papers properly kept in safe custody after ccunt 

ing or were they tampered with ? Have they any evidentiary value ? 
Therefore , the petitioners led evidence in rebuttal and evidence was closed on 


8rc. { it)] 


THE GAZĖTTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 1984 / PAUSA 8 , 1886 


479 


" 


DECISION OF ISSUES 

Case No. 1 of 1962 
Issues Nos . 6 and 7 of this case were decided as preliminary issues on 24th 
May 1963 , it being held that the election petition makes out a prima facie case , 
and that the recrimination Aled under section 97 is not barred by limitation . 

Issue No. 1 — This issue relates to the question whether at first P . R . Chandra , 
Assistant Returning Officer , made an announcement that Surendra Mohanty , the 
the petitioner of this case , had won by a majority of 212 votes . It has been men 
tioned before that on 28th February , 1962 . Surendra Mohanty sent a telegram to 
the Election Commission alleging that the Assistant Returning Officer had Arst 
announced that he had obtained a lead of 212 votes , and that the Election Com 
mission called for a report from the District Magistrate on that and on other 
allegations. In his confidential letter ( Ex . CC ) dated 8th March , 1962 the District 
Magistrate , C . Venataramani, referred to this allegation in the last but one para 
graph of his report. There he stated as follows: 
" About a few hours before the Election results were announced the Assistant 

Returning Officer unofficially informed a leading number of the Congress 
Party when specifically asked over telephone that it appears that the 
Congress candidate was leading by 212 votes . It was discovered im 
mediately thereafter that there was an arithmatical mistake and 
that this figure was wrong . The Assistant Returning Officer also 
took the trouble of informing the correct position to the person who 
had telephoned . It may noted that the communication of this infor 
mation was completely unofficial and was done during the progress 
of counting and because the Assistant Returning Oncer was asked 
to inform the progress over telephone," 


C . Venkataramani, the District Magistrate has been examined as D . W . 4 and 
has proved the letter . He has stated that he obtained the information as given 
in his letter by obtaining a report from the Assistant Returning Officer , Sri P , R . 
Chandra . The report or letter of course is not direct evidence , but it has value 
because it gives a practically contemporary explanation of what had happened , 
Direct evidence has also been obtained on this point. P . R . Chandra has been 
examined in this case as a court witness . His evidence shows that it was either 
the then Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister of Orissa who asked for 


ed the inquiry over the phone, he went into th Counting Hall in the S . D . O s office 
premises and after learning from the Counting star that the Congress candidate 


the phone, but subsequently after checking the totalling when it was reported 
that the totalling was not correct and the P . S . P . candidate was leading by some 
votes, he phoned up to the person to whom he had given the earlier incorrect 
Information and gave him the correct position . At that stage according to his 
evidence. P , R . Chandra did not make an announcement of the result as contem 
plated by rule 63 sub -rule ( 1 ) of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. On 
behalf of the petitioner the main witnesses on the point are P . W . 2 . Narsing Sahu , 
P . W . 3 Radhashyam Agarwala and PW , 6 Purusottam Naik P . W : 2 Narsingh 
Sahu was a Polling Agent and Counting Agent for Surendra Mohanty at the 
Parliamentary election , He said that a few minutes before 4 P . M , on 27th February 
1962 the counting in respect of Mahanga was over ; that thereafter all the 
Counting Agents assembled at the table of the Assistant Returning Omcer, that at 
that table there were the A , D , M . Chandra Babu and the S . D . O . Murty Babu ; that 
Chandra Babu after calculating the result on a large sheet of paper said that the 
Congress candidate was leading by 192 votes and that there were some postal 
ballots which should be looked into that Murty Babu then brought out the postal 
ballots which were counted and found to be 25 in number , and 20 were found 
to be in favour of the Congress candidate and 5 for the P . S . P . candidate ; that the 
witness then objected saying that he had heard that the postal ballots were 30 
in number and not 25 ; then Murty Babu said that it did not matter as the Con 
gress candidate was already leading by 212 votes, and then in Jubilation the 
Congress workers left the hall and the witness also started for Purusottam Naik s 
house . The witness added that just after that, Surendranath Dwivedy, Hrudananda 
Mohanty and 4 or 5 other P . S . P . men went into the Counting Hall, and he turned 
back and followed them into the Counting Hall; that he heard Bhagabat Prasad 
Mohanty and Surendranath Dwivedy asking Chandra Babu to do the totalling 
correctly , that Chandra Babu at that stage went to attend a telephone call and 
returned after 2 or 3 minutes , and then at the instance of S . N Dwivedy and 
Bhagawat Prasad Mohanty he re - totalled the figures and then said that the P . S . P . 
candidate was leading by 68 votes. The evidence of P . W . 3 Radhashyam 


4798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1886 


PART JI 


Agarwalla is not of much importance . He says that he acted as Counting Agent 
for Surendra Mohanty at the Municipal Hall, and on 27th February 1962 after 
4 P . M . he was loitering near the S . D . O s office , when he heard some people saying 
that Congress candidate had won by 212 votes , and that after an hour he heard 
that Dwivedy Babu had won by 66 votes . This witness Alcd one of the petitions 
for recount. The witness does not speak of any announcement by the A . R . O . in 
favour of S . Mohanty . 

P . W . 6 , Purusottam Naik is a more important witness . He was a member of 
the Legislative Assembly of Orissa for 2 years, and at the time when he deposed 
he was the General Secretary of the District Congress Committee, Cuttack . He 
is also the Chairman , Panchayat Samiti, Kendrapara II . His evidence on the point 
at issue is that he was acting as Counting Agent in the Counting Hall in the 
S . D . O s Office building, that on 27th February 1962, the counting of Mahanga 
Assembly Constituency ballot papers was over at 4 P .M .; that after totalling up 
the votes, the Assistant Returning Officer said that lcaying the postal ballot papers 
the Congress candidate was leading by 197 votes; that the postal ballot papers 
were counted at 4 . 15 P . M , and it was found that the Congress candidate had 
obtained 20 and the P . S . P . candidate 5 of these ballots, and that it was stated that 
the Congress candidate has received a majority of 212 votes, than a peon came 


Surendranath Dwivedy and Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty came, and Bhagabat Prasad 
Mohanty filled written petition stating that the totalling was wrong, and that 
Chandra Babu came back after about 5 minutes to the Counting Hall , and then a 
quick re - totalling was done and it was found that the P . S . P . candidate was 
leading by 66 votes. It should be noted that the witness did not spcak of the 
A . R . O , having formally announced the result that the Congress candidate had 
won by 212 votes . According to his evidence , at the first wrong totalling it 
appeared that the Congress candidate was leading by 212 votes , but soon thereafter 
the totalling was checked and it was found that the P . S . P . candidate was leading 
by 66 votes. 

The witnesses for the respondent on the point are D . W . 1, Pradipta Kishore 
Das , D . W . 2 Surendranath Dwivedy , D . W . 3 , Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty and 
D . W . 7 Krushna Chandra Mallik , D . W . 1 stated that there was no announcement 
at any time that Surendra Mohanty had won by 212 votes. According to his evi 
dence the counting of the ballot papers of Mahanga constituency was finished at 
Fabout 4 P . M ., and before postal ballots were counted both Chandra Babu and 
Murty Babu left the hall and were in the S . D . O s chamber for about an hour ; that 


absence from the Counting Hall; that after about an hour the Assistant Returning 
Ofcers returned to the Counting Hall and Sri Chandra counted the postal ballots 
and then he announced the total votes polled by each candidate the figures 
showing that the P . S . P . candidates was leading by 66 votes , and thereafter asked 


declared . 

D . W . 2 , Surendranath Dwivedy went to the Counting Hall at about 4 . 30 P . M . ; 
according to his evidence , shortly after his arrival the Assistant Returning Officers 
left the Counting Hall and were absent for about an hour; the witness received 
information from his Counting Agents that P , R Chandra was talking over the 
phone with the Chief Minister , and he caused objection petitions to be filed and 
he also sent a telegram to the Election Commission ; that after about an hour 
Sri Chandra and Sri Murty came back to the hall and Sri Chandra started 
counting the postal ballots ; then another telephone call was received and the 
witness protested against Sri Chandra interrupting his working of counting the 
postal ballots and going to answer the phone call, and then Sri Murty was sent 
to answer the phone call and Sri Chandra completed the counting of the postal 
ballots and then he made the totalling of all the votes and announced the result, 
namely , that the witness Dwivedy was leading by 66 votes . 

D . W . 3 . Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty also asserted that it never was announced at 
any time that Surendra Mohanty was leading by 212 votes . He said that he was 
maintaining a running total of ballot papers counted in favour of each candidate , 
and that after counting was completed , Dwivedy was leading by 81 votes with 
the postal ballots still to be counted . D . W . stated that before counting of postal 
ballots , the Assistant Reurning Officers went to the S . D . O s chamber ; that he and 
Krushna Chandra Mallik followed them , and from outside the chamber he over 
heard part of the telephone conversation and that he inferred from what he 
heard that P . R . Chandra was speaking with the Chief Minister , and he informed 
Dwivedy about it, and he and Krishna Chandra Mallik filed a joint petition under 
the instruction of Dwivedy , protesting against the Assistant Returning Officer 


SEC, 3( 11)1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 /PAUSA 5. 1886 


4799 


talking at that stage with the Chief Minister and delaying the declaration of the 
result , that the Assistant Reeturning Officer returned to the Hall at about 5 . 30 PM , 
and then P . R . Chandra counted the postal ballets which took about half an hour , 
and a little after 6 P . M he first announced the result , and after a short while 
made the formal declaration that Dwivedy had won by 66 votes. 

The evidence of D . W . 7 Krishna Chandra Mallik , who like D . W . 3 is a practiging 
lawyer of Kendra para, is similar to that of DW 3 . He stated that when counting 
of ballot papers from the ballot boxes was complete Dwivedy was leading by 81 
votes. According to him , the position never was , whether due to wrong totalling 
or otherwise, that Surendra Mohanty was supposed to be leading by 212 votes . 
He was one of the persons who accompanied Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty when the 
Assistant Returning Officers went to the S . D . O s chamber, and he claimed to have 
over -heard part of the telephone conversation . Ex . BB is the petition which was 
Aled before the Assistant Returning Officer under the signature of Krushna 
Chandra Mallik , Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty and two others. The petition is as 
follows: 
" While we are anxiously awaiting at the Counting table at 4 . 45 P . M . after 

completion of the counting for the announcement of the result, both 
of you suddenly left the table and went outside without making the 
announcement and without assigning any reason , When we followed 
you we overheard that you were in telephonic conversation with the 
Chief Minister who in this case has no jurisdiction excepting that 
he is the leader of the Congress Party . This is a semi- judicial pro 
ceeding and you are acting on behalf of the Election Commission 
over which the Chief Minister has no jurisdiction . This is highly 
obtectionable and we take strong exception to such exceptional pro 
cedure " . 


Ex , BB / 1 is the receipt which was signed by P . R . Chandra on receiving the appli 
cation Ex, BB and the time noted thereon is 5 , 25 P . M . Ex . FF / 1 is the objection . 
petition over the same matter under the signature of Surendra nath Dwivedy . 
Thereon also the receipt of P . R . Chandra is endorsed , the time being given as 
5 .25 P .M . These contemporaneous documents clearly show that there could not 
have been any announcement of the result at 4 , 15 P .M . or 4 . 30 PM , as suggested 
by the petitioner s witnesses . 

As to the question whether the postal ballots were counted before or after 
P . R . Chandra had gone to the S . D . O s chamber to answer the telephone call from 
the Chief Minister, there is discrepancy between the evidence of the witnesses : 
of the two sides , for according to the petitioner s witnesses the postal ballots were 
also examined by P . R . Chandra and the position was believed to be that the 
congress candidate was leading by 212 votes ( 197 + 16 ) and this was at about 4 .30 P. M . 
before the total was checked at the instance of Surendranath Dwivedy and 
Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty And found to be wrong, which was done after 5 P . M . 
The evidence of respondent s witnesses is that postal ballots were counted 
between 5 . 30 PM , and 6 P . M ., after the Assistant Retruning Officers had come 
back from the Chamber after telephonic conversation with the Chief Minister. 
Ex . AA is a post copy of a telegram sent by Surendra Dwivedy to the Election 
Commission on 27th February, 1962. It was stated therein that during the 
counting of votes, after all votes excepting the postal ballots had been counted , 
it was found that Surendranath Dwivedy was leading by 81 votes and at that 
stage the Assistant Returning Ofñcers had absented themselyes for an hour 
without counting the poştal ballots . P . R . Chandra himself in his deposition 
stated that he did not clearly remember whether he counted the postal ballots 
before or after he had gone to the S . D . O s chamber to speak with the Chief 
Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister . But he said that he had communicated 
the report as to the Congress candidate leading by 212 votes, while the counting 
was still going on . It follow therefore that the postal ballots could not have 
been counted at that stage, for postal ballots were counted after the counting of 
ballot papers from the ballot boxes was completed . Further , in view of the con 
tents of Ex . AA referred to above, it would be reasonable to hold that the postal 
ballots were counted afterwards i.e ., not before 4. 30 P .M . but after 5 . 25 P . M , which 
is the time endorsed on Ex . BB / 1 and Ex . FF / 1 . It has been urged that only by 
adding 15 votes by which Surendra Mohanty led in respect of postal ballots we 
would get the number 212 . It would , however , appear that it was without 
taking into account the result of the postal ballots that the wrong totalling gave 
Surendra Mohanty a lead of 212 votes. It is true that P . W . 6 spoke of Surendra 
Mohanty leading 197 before the postal ballots were counted but it would appear 
that he got the number 197 by subtracting 15 from 212. P . W . 2 spoke of 192 
and not 197, and this lends support to the inference that the wrong totalling 
showed a lead not of 197 or 192, but of 212 , which was actually reported to people 


4800 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964/ PAUSA 5 , 1888 [ PART II 


outside. The evidence of P . W . 1 Gour Chandra Rout, the editor of the paper 
Matrubhumi is that a report was first circulated that the Congress candidate had 
won by 212 votes and then it was found to be wrong and it was ascertained that 
the P . S . P . candidate had won by 60 votes and further , that the lead of 212 was 
reported when the counting was still going on . 

The witnesses of the respondent cannot, however , be believed when they say 
that at no stage as the result of wrong totalling or otherwise , the position was 
that the Congress candidate was leading by 212 votes. The re - totalling is spoken 
of not only by the witnesses of the petitioner but by the Assistant Returning 
Officer , P . R . Chandra , P . R . Chandra also stated that a computer niachine was 
used to check the total. It might be that the mistake in totalling was found out 
as a result of check by the computer machine ; or it might be that the re - totalling 
was done at the instance of the P . S . P . men , Be that as it may , it is clear that 
at one stage , due to wrong totalling, Surendra Mohanty was supposed to be leading 
by 212 votes after the ballot papers from the ballot boxes had been counted , but 
not the postal ballots and only as a result of retotalling it was found that 
Surendranath Dwivedy was leading by 81 votes, which lead was reduced to 66 
after the counting of postal ballots . But there was no formal announcement at 
any stage under rule 63 sub - rule ( 1 ) in favour of the petitioner Surendra Mohanty . 

Issue No . 2 . -- This issue relates to the question whether force was used by the 
respondent or his companions and whether P . R . Chandra , Assistant Returning 
Officer was coerced to prepare false record declaring the respondent elected . 
This issue, as framed , is somewhat misleading , because the petitioner s case is not 
that P . R . Chandra was coerced into preparing false record declaring the 
respondent elected , but his case is that he was coerced into declaring that the 


Ask for recount, and that subsequently P . R . Chandra regularised the position by 
preparing false record by writing up some orders. In support of the case that 
P . R . Chandra was acting under duress and was therefore confused, it has been 
urged on behalf of the petitioner that he used a wrong form in declaring the result ; 
that the result was to be declared in form No . 21 of the forms prescribed by the 
Conduct of Election Rules , but P . R . Chandra declared the result in form No, 20 . 
This contention , however, cannot be accepted . Rule 63 sub - rule ( 1 ) reguires 
that after completion of the counting the Returning Offlcer shall record in the 
Tesult shcet in form 20 the total number of votes polled by each candidate and 
announce the same. Sub - rule ( 2 ) provides that after such announcement, any 
candidate or in his absence his Election Agent may apply for recount. Sub 
rules ( 3 ) , ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) deal with the procedure for dealing with any application for 
recount. Sub - rule ( 6 ) provides that after the total number of votes polled by 
each candidate has been announced , the Returning Officer shall complete and 
sign the result sheet in form No. 20 after giving a reasonable opportunity for 
Aling applications for recount, and no application for recount shall be entertained 
thereafter. Rule 64 provides that the Returning Omcer shall then declare to be 
elected the candidate to whom the largest number of valid votes had been given , 
complete and certify the return of election in form 21 and send copies thereof to 
the Election Commission and to the Chief Electoral Officer, It is thus clear that 
the declaration of the result is not required to be made in form No. 21, but form 
20. Form 21 is the form in which the return of election is certifcd and sent to 
the Election Commission and to the Chief Electoral Officer . For the declaration 
Kitself no form is prescribed , but it is to be made after completed result sheet is 
signed under sub - rule ( 6 ) of rule 63. Ex . XVII is the result sheet in form 20 
prepared by P . R . Chandra as the Returning Officer. In this result sheet he first 
noted down the total number of votes polled by each of the candidates in each of 
the 7 Assembly Constituencies and also the postal ballots . He then made totals 
of the columns appertaining to the two candidates. Below the result of totalling 
be noted : 
" Sri Surendranath Dwivedy having polled 66 votes more than Surendra 

Mohanty is hereby declared elected " . 
He signed this , noting the time as 6 . 20 P . M . In his deposition in court, P . R . 
Chandra stated that he obtained the totals of valid votes received by each candi 
date in each Assembly Constituency from the detailed statements in form 20 
relating to each Assembly Constituency and then he totalled the figures and 
announced the total number of votes received by each candidate. According to 
his evidence the announcement was made by him at 6 . 15 P . M ., then he invited 
applications for recount, and he put his signature below this form at 6 . 20 P . M . 
and at the same time formally declared the result. He stated that he filled up the 
return of election in form 21 immediately thereafter. Ex , XVIII is the Return 
of Election in form 21 under the signature of P , R Chandra dated 27th 
February 1982; the time is not noted thereon . It is clear that no confusion was 
made by P . R . Chandra in declaring the result , he used the correct procedure as 
prescribed by rules 63 and 64 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 


Sec. Siil)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA B , 1386 


4801 


Some witnesses for the petitioner , namely P . W . 2 , P . W . 3 and P . W .6 gave some 
evidence to prove that P . R . Chandra was coerced into declaring the result with 
out giving reasonable opportunity to the Congress candidate for filing a recount 
petition . Surendra Mohanty deposed as P . W . 7 , but he is not a witness on the 
point, because he never went to the counting hall on that day. According to his 
evidence he was somewhat indisposed on that day he was at Cuttack , where at 
about 1 .40 P . M . he received a phone call from Purusottam Naik who was at 
Kendrapara aşking him to come to Kendrapara ; that he started by a jeep after 
taking his lunch after 2 . 30 P . M . but his departure was delayed till about 3 .30 , P . M . 
owing to mechanical trouble in the car. He arrived at Kendrapara at about 
4 . 30 P . M . and went to the house of Purusottam Naik and was feeling unwell after 
the strain of the jeep ride and so he could not go at once to the Counting Hall. 
At Purusottam Naik s house he met Avedananda Satpathy ( P . W . 4 ) and subsequently 
met Banbehari Mohanty . When he learnt that he was trailing by 66 votes he 
dictated petitions for recount and sent the first of them through Banbehari 
Mohanty , and then he dictated two more petitions for recount and accompanied 
by Avedananda Satpathy he proceeded towards the Counting Hall in a jeep , but 
owing to a crowd he could not go up to the Counting Hall and sent the two 
petitions through Avedananda Satpathy to the Counting Hall and he himself 
stayed in the jeep . He learnt subsequently that his petitions for recount had 
not been considered . 

Thus, Surendra Mohanty did not himself know what happened in the Counting 
Hall and whether P . R . Chandra was coerced in any way. The evidence on that 
points is of P .Ws. 2 , 3 and 6 . None of these witnesses stated in court that the 
P . S . P . men banged at the door of the S . D . O s office chamber and almost bodily 
lifted P . R . Chandra into the counting hall. The evidence of P . W . 2 is that when 
it appeared that the Congress candidate was leading by 212 votes , the Congress 
workers left the Counting Hall in jubilation and he also left and was proceeding 
towards the house of Purusottam Naik , and on the way he found Bhagabat Prasad 
Mohanty going into the Counting Hall and then he saw Surendranath Dwivedy , 
Hrudananda Mohanty and 4 or 5 P . W . men going into the counting hall 
and there were 50 / 60 men of the town following them . Thereupon the witness 
also followed them into the Counting Hall. On his arrival he heard Bhagabat 
Prasad Mohanty and Surendranath Dwivedy asking Chandra Babu to check the 
total properly ; at that stage on being informed about a telephone call, Chandra 
Babu went to his chamber but he returned after two or three minutes and on his 
return Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty and Surendranath Dwivedy caught hold of the 
large sheet of paper on the table ( on which votes obtained by each candidate was 
noted ) and asked that Chandra Babu should do the retotalling, and after retotalling 
Chandra Babu said that the P . S . P . candidate had won by 66 votes . The witness first 
said that 2 or 3 minutes later, he said that 10 / 15 minutes later , purusottam Naik 
filed a petition for recounting ; but as soon as the petition was put on the table 
Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty put it aside and insisted that the declaration should be 
made that the P . S . P . candidate had won ; and then two other applications sent by 
Surendra Mohanty were made over, but again Surendra Dwivedy insisted that 
he had won by 66 votes and the result be declared ; and Chandra Babu then signed 
the sheet on which the totals had been noted and declared that the P . S . P . candi 
date had won by 66 votes without having able to pass order on the petitions for 
recount. 


P . W . 3 was loitering outside the counting hall and after 5 P . M . he saw a large 
crowd gathering and shouting slogans in favour of surendranath Dwivedy. The 
witness went into the Counting Hall and found about 100 persons inside shouting 
" Dwivedy ki Jai" and hearing that Dwivedy Babu had won by 66 votes he wrote 
out a petition on behalf of Surendra Mohanty for recounting and handed it to 
Mr. Chandra , But Mr. Chandra refused to consider the petition . He said that 
at the time P . R . Chandra was sitting at the table and was being insistently asked 
by Surendranath Dwivedy and 20 other people who were present around him that 
Dwivedy Babu should be declared elected . The witness said that another petition 
for recount was presented to Shri Chandra by another Counting Agent, and 5 
minutes later Purusottam Naik brought a petition from Surendra Mohanty , and 
5 or 10 minutes later two more petitions signed by Surendra Mohanty were Aled . 
But the P . S . P . men put their hands on the petitions which were placed on the 
table , and demanded that the petitions must not be considered and Dwivedy Babu 
must be declared elected , and then Chandra Babu signed the result sheet and 
declared that Dwivedy had been elected . P . W .6 stated that after it was first stated 
that the Congress candidae had received a majority of 212 votes, Surendranath 
Dwivedy and Bhagawat Prasad Mohanty came and Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty 
Aled a written petition that the calculation was wrong , that Chandra Babu went 
to attend a telephone call without listening to that; that he came back 5 minutes 
later and at the table were Sri Chandra and Sri Murty the S . D . O . of Kendrapara , 


4802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 (PART II 


while Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty and Surendranath Dwivedy and certain other 
men were surrounding them . A quick calculation was then made and Bhagabat 
Prasad Mohanty said that the P . S . P . candidate was leading by 66 votes and this 
was repeated by Sri Murty , The P . S . P . men then left the hall in a jubilant 
manner but the crowd was still there outside the gate . The witness asked 
Brahamananda Rout and Jairam Naik to go and phone to Surendra Mohanty 
about what had happened . The witness went to the verandah to await the 
coming of Surendra Mohanty. During that time Radhashayam Agarwal and 
Govind Sarangi filed written petitions for recounting. The Banbehari Mohanty 
came and gave the witness a petition saying that it had been signed by Surendra 
Mohanty and the witness presented that petition to Sri Chandra Bhagabat 
Prasad Mohanty however, pushed aside that petition and insisted that the result 
should be declared . Two other petitions were then brought by Banbehari 
Mohanty and they were filed but Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty placed his hands on 
the petitions and asked Sri Chandra to declare the result. When Chandra was 
being shouted at and threatened, he declared the result and did not take any 
action on the petition for recount. 

On the other hand , the witnesses for the respondent denied that any threat 
or violnace was used on the Assistant Returning Officer , though their evidence 
shows that they expressed their annoyance at the Assistant Returning Officers 
keeping themselves in the S . D . O s chamber for a long time even after it was 
known that the P . S . P . candidate was leading by 81 votes i. e ., before the counting 
of the postal_ ballots ; and they filed two petitions Ex. BB and Ex , FF / 1 in this 
connection , D . W . 1 , Pradipta Kishore stated that after Sri Chandra had 
announced the result and called for petitions for recount if any, two petitions for 
recount were filed by two Counting Agents of Surendra Mohanly , namely , 
Radhashyam Agarwala and Govind Sarangi, and those petitions were retected by 
the Assistant Returning Officer, and that as no petition signed by Sri Surendra 
Mohanty was filed the result was formally declared . The witness denied the 
suggestion that Surendranath Dwivedy had come into the Counting Hall with 60 
or 70 followers. D . W . 2 Surendranath Dwivedy spoke on this point to the same 
effect as D . W . 1 . He said that Chandra Babu rejected the application for recount 
Aled by Radhashyam Agarwala as it was not filed by the candidate for his Election 
Agent, and he stated further that no petition signed or purporting to have been 
signed by Surendra Mohanty was Aled before declaration of the result , and that 
It was 15 or 20 minutes after the result was declared that the first petition pur 
porting to be signed by Surendra Mohanty was filed before P . R . Chandra and 
that thereafter two more petitions purporting to be signed by Surendra Mohanty 
were fled before Sri Chandra , and Sri Chandra noted the time of receipt of those 
petitions, and naturally he did not consider them , because they were filed after 
the result had been declared i. e ., after Sri Chandra had signed the result sheet in 
form 20 . The evidence of D . W . 3 , Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty is similar . He denied 
the suggestion that he had put his hands on petitions for recount signed by 
Surendra Mohanty or his agents or that he had insisted that they should not be 
considered and that the result should be declared . That is also the evidence of 
D . W . 7 , Krushna Chandra Malik , 


Sri P . R . Chandra who deposted as a court witness denied that he had been 
almost bodily lifted or coerced into going into the Counting Hall and declaring 
the result. He admitted that when he and Murty , the then S . D . O . of Kendrapara, 
were in the S . D . O s chamber dealing with the phone call from the Chief Minister 
or the Deputy Chief Minister, some people banged at the door of the chamber, 
and that when he opened the door Dwivedy or some body else asked him to pro 
ceed to declare the result, and that then he went into the Counting Hall and pro 
ceeded with the counting of the postal ballots . He denied the suggestion that at 
that stage he was threatened or coerced or prevented from dealing with applica 
tions for recount. He admitted that when he was counting the postal ballots he 
was informed that a phone call had come for him and at that time Dwivedy 
objected that he could not leave the work to attend the phone call ard therefore 
he did not go and sent Murty instead . This does not amount to coercion , He 
said that after writing up form No. 20 but before signing the same he announced 
the result at 6 . 15 P .M . He received the application for recount Aled by 
Radhashyam Agarwala and rejected it, as it was not signed by the candidate or 
his Election Agent but only by a Counting Agent. It may be mentioned in this 
connection that under rule 63 sub - rule ( 2 ) , after the result had been announced , a 
candidate or in his absence his election agent may apply in writing to the 
Returning Oncer for a recount. An election agent is defined in section 40 of 
the Act and his functions are described in section 45 of the Act. The functions of 
Polling Agents and Counting Agents are mentioned in section 49. An Election 
Agent has much wider power than a polling agent or a counting agent, and 
Surendra Mohanty admitted that he had not appointed any election agent in 


"EC. 8 ( it) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1984/ PAUSA 8 , 1486 4803 

= = = = 
connection with the Parliamentary election , but only polling agents and counting 
agents. In the circumstances , the Assistant Returning Officer was quite right in 
rojecting the petition for recount filed by Radhashyam Agarwalla who was not 
the election agent of the congress candidate . As regards the 3 petitions for re 
count purporting to be signed by Surendra Mohanty Sri P . R . Chandra stated 
that they were received respectively at 6 . 40 P .M . 6 .45 P . M . and 6 . 50) P . M . i. e . long 
after he had signed the result sheet and declared the result, which was done at 
6 , 20 P , M . Naturally , therefore he could not consider those applications, 


The evidence of P . R . Chandra finds supports from the cndorsemenls niade in 
his hand on the petitions for rccount purporting to have been signed by Surendra 
Mohanty , namely , Ex . IV , V and VI and also from the two orders recorded by 
P . R . Chandra at the time, namely , Éx , GG and GG / 1 . Ex . GG dated 27th 
February 1962 reads as follows: 
" After completion of counting the total number of yotes polled by each 

candidate was announced . Before signing the result sheet the candi 
dates and those present were given reasonable opportunity to exercise 
their right to ask for a recounting . One Radhashyam Agarwal, 
Counting Agent of Surendra Mohanty gave in writing a petition for 
recounting. Article 17 of the Hand -book for the Returning Officers 


may apply in writing for recounting of all or any of the ballot papers 
already counted . This clearly indicates that a candidate or in his 
absence his election agent is to apply in writing for recounting . In 
the present case a Counting Agent has applicd . As such the petition 

for recounting cannot be entertained " . 
Ex . GG , 1 reads as follows: 
" The attached 4 petitions were received either from the Authorised Counting 

Agent of Surendra Mohanty or from Surendra Mohanty himself. 
Petition No . 1 was received at 6 . 10 PM , I arnounced the result of 
polling at 6 . 15 P . M . and put my signature at 6 . 20 P . M . Before 
putting my signature I invited the parties whosoever liked to exercise 
their right to ask for recount. In response to that Radhashyam 
Agarwala , Counting Agent for Surendra Mohanty filed a petition 
which has been dealt with in a separate order . The other 3 petitions 
were received at 6 . 40 , 6 , 45 P . M , and 6 .50 P .M . ... .. .. . " 


After noting as above the Assistant Returning Omcer proceeded to refer to Arti 
cle 17 of the Hand -book and also to the fact that no application for recount put 
after signature of the result shcet could be considered . He ended by observing 
that the petitions could not be entertained as they were filed either before 
announcement of the result or after the declaration of the result . 

It has been suggested on behalf of the petitioner that these two ordershcets 
were subsequently written up by P . R . Chandra in order to cover up his illegal 
declaration of the result without considering the petitions for recount. But though 
further cross - cxamination of P . R . Chandra by the petitioner s counsei was per 
mitted after the order sheets Ex . GG and GG / 1 were put in evidence on behalt 
of the respondent, no suggestion was made to the witness that Ex . GG and GG / 1 
were written up later and not written at the time when they ought to have been 
written . It would appear from the evidence of P . R . Chandra himself and the 
evidence of D . W 5 Santosh Mohanty , an officer of the Posts and Telegraphs 
Department, that a great many telephone calls from the Chief Minister and the 
Deputy Chief Minister were received by P , R . Chandra on 27th February , 1962, 
Naturally , therefore , the Assistant Returning Officer , P . R . Chandra was anxious 
to do his duty strictly in accordance with the rules . There is no rcason at all 
to think that out of bias in favour of the P . S . P . party he would wrongfully omit 
10 consider the recount pctitions if they had been filed properly or in time, and 
as to the suggestion of coercion . I do not find that the evidence establishes that 
P . R . Chandra was acting under any such cocrcion , although Surendranath 
Dwivedy or some of his Counting Agents like Bhagabat Prasad Mohanty might 
have displayed some impatience at the delay made by the Assistant Returning 
Officer in announcing and declaring the result . 

The issue is therefore decided in the negative , 
Issue No. 3 . - The issue reads as follows: 
" Whether applications for recount trad been made by the petitioner ? Did 

they remain undisposed of." 


4804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28, 19A/PAUSA 5, 1886 (Part 11 


This question has already been dealt with in dealing with the last issue. 
Altogether 5 applications for recount were filled , one by P . W . 3 , Radhashyam 
Agarwalla , Ex . II : one by Govind Sarangi ( not exhibited ) and 3 petitions Ex . IV , 


Avedananda Satpathy or Banbehari Mohanty . The Assistant Returning Officer 
passed an order in respect of Radhashyam Agarwalla s pctition ; he rejected it as 
It was not filed by the candidate or his election agent. He did not pass any order 
on the other 4 applications for recount as they were filed either before the an 
nouncement or after the declaration as stated in his order Ex , GG / 1 . After con 
sidering the evidences in the case I hold that the applications for recount were 
properly dealt with , 

It is curious that Surendra Mohanty in his telegram Ex . VIII dated 28th 
February , 1962 to the Chief Election Commission referred to two petitions for 
recount Aled by him . Apparently he was not by that time aware of the recount 
petitions Aled by Radhashyam Agarwalla and Govind Sarangi ; and there may 
be truth in the suggestion by the respondent s advocates that Fx . IV was not 
written to the dictation of Surendra Mohanty , but a form for appointment of 
counting agent bearing the signature of Surendra Mohanty was used by Pursottam 
Naik or some one else for making up a recount petition purporting to be signed 
by Surendra Mohanty . 

But in any case , it is quite clear that no recount petition signed or purporting 
to be sirnard hy Surendra Mohanty was Aled in due time before the Assistant 
Returning Officer . This point is further dealt with in the course of discussion 
of the next issue. 
Issue No. 4 .--- This issue reads as follows: 

" Whether the provisions of rule 63 have been contravened ?" 
As stated proviously , rule 63 requires that after totalling , the result should first 
be announced and then a reasonable opportunity should be given to the candi 
dates or their election agents for filing applications for recount, and thereafter 
the result sheet should be signed , after which no more application for recount 
shall be received . The issue was framed as it was alleged by the petitioner that 
the Assistant Returning Officer had given no reasonable opportunity for sub 
mitting applications for recount. It has already been found , however , on refer 
ence to the evidence , that after he had announced the result at about 6 - 15 P .M ., 
P . R . Chandra invited other applications for recount after Radhashyam Agarwalla 
had Aled such an application and that no more applications for recount being 
Aled before him , he declared the result at 6 - 20 P . M . The applications purporting 
to have been signed by Surendra Mohanty were Aled long thereafter . The evi 
dence of P . W . 6 , Purusottam Naik has already been referred to , that when the 
totals werc recalculated and it was announced that the P . S . P . candidate was 
leading by 66 votes , the witness asked Brahmananda Rout and Jairam Naik to 
go to the Congress office and to phone to Surendra Mohanty about what had 
happened . The witness was then waiting in the varendah of the Counting Hall 
for Surendra Mohanty to come. There is evidence of Surendra Mohanty that he 
arrived at the house of Purusottam Naik at about 4 - 30 P .M , and then he felt too 
weak to proceed to the Counting Hall. When he arrived he first obtained the 
information that he was leading by 212 votes , but about 10 minutcs thereafter a 
phone call was received which was attended to by Avedananda Satpathy and 
simultaneously Banbehari Mohanty came and said that on recalculating the totals 
the figures had been upset and that he was trailing by 66 votes ; that he was 
stunned and then said that he must Alle an application for rccount, and that he 
dictated one anplication for recount and sent it through Banbehar ! Mohanty , and 
then he dictated two other pctitions for recount and proceeded with Avedananda 
Satpathy in a jeep , and being unable to go himself in his sick condition through 
the crowd, he sent Avedananda with these two petitions to the Counting Hali. 
It is clear that all this took some time. The phone call informing him ihat he 
Was behind by 66 votes could not have been received before 6 P . M . , because the 
counting of postal ballots took place between 5 - 30 P . M . and 6 - 00 PM ., and before 
they had been counted , the exact difference of 66 votcs could not have been 
known . Hence it is clear that before 6 - 20 P . M . the petitions for recount dictated 
and signed by Surendra Mohanty could not have reached the Assistant Returning 
Offlcer , They must have rcached him between 6 - 40 P . M , And 6 - 50 P . M . as stated 
by P . R . Chandra himself and As noted by him on the petitions. 1t was naturally 
expected that the candidates should themselves be in the Counting Hall at the 
time when the result was due to be announced and declared . The Assistant Re 
turning Officer could not know that Surendra Mohanty was unable to come due 
to lllness . Normally , there was no reason for him to wait for more than 5 minutes 
to receive applications for recount. In the circumstances it must be said that 
there was no contravention of the provisions of rule 63 . 


SEC . $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4805 


Issue No. 6 . - This relates to the question whether the Tribunal is competent to 
recount the votes . If sufficient case is made out for holding a recount there is no 
reason why the Tribunal should not be able to do the same. If, for instance , it 
had appeared that an application for recount made beforc & Returning Officer 
had been wrongfully rejected , the Tribunal would certainly direct that a recount 
be held . As it is , however , the question of recount hardly arises. On the appli 
cation of the petitioner in the other case , the ballot papers have been permitted 
to be inspected and each side has proved before the Tribunal the ballot papers 
claimed to have been wrongly rejected or wrongly received or wrongly counted , 
and after deciding which hallot papers were wrongly received or wrongly reject 
ed or wrongly counted , it can be ascertained by calculation how many valid votes 
were received by each party . The question of full recount does not, therefore , 
Arise . 

But on the petition of the petitioner of this case inspection of ballot paper s 
was not allowed , it being held that his clection petition did not disclose sufficient 
ground for obtaining an inspection of the ballot pupers . On his own case the 
petitioner Surendra Mohanty could have obtained an order for recount of the 
ballot papers only if he had succeeded in proving that the Assistant Returning 
Officer P , R . Chandra had wrongly rejected the petitions for rccount filed by him 
at the proper stage or had omitted to consider them illegally , or if the petitioner 
had succeeded in establishing that P , R . Chandra was by thrcat of violence 
coerced into declaring the result without observing the rules for the conduct of 
election . But these allegations not having been cstablished , the petitioner cannot 
obtain & recount. 

Issue Nos. 8 to 15 . These issues relate to corrupt practices alleged to have 
been committed by the petitioner. They arise out of the recrimination . They 
correspond to issue Nos . 29 to 36 of the connected case and they will be dealt 
with when dealing with the issues of that case , In case No. 1 the petitioner can 
not in any case succeed in obtaining u declaration that he has been duly clccted 
because , as observed above, having failed to prove his case that the result of the 
election was materially affected by any non - compliance with the provision of the 
Conduct of Election Rules , it cannot be found that the election of the respondent 
has been void . 

Ingue No, 16 . — The petitioner has not succeeded in making out any case for 
declaring the cloction of the respondent as void . 

Issue No. 17 . - It follows that the petitioner on his own case is not entitled to 
be declared elected . 

Additional Issiles. These issues properly arise in the connected case and not 
in this case . They will be dealt with in the proper place in the course of discus 
sion of the issues of the connected case . 
Issues in case No . 54 of 1962. 

Issue Nos . 1 and 28 . — These issuos were decided as preliminary issues wide 
order of the Tribunal dated 24th May , 1963, along with Issue Nos , 6 and 7 of Casc 
No. 1 of 1962 . It was held that the election petition of Banbehari Mohanty was 
in order and in accordance with the provisions of the relevant Sections of the 
Art nrovided he is found to be an elector , and that the recrimination was Aled 
in time and is not barred by limitation . 

Issue No . 2 . — This issue deals with the question whether the petitioner of 
this case , Banbehari Mohanty , is an elector of the Parliamentary constituency . 
Under section 81 an election petition may be presented by any candidate for the 
election or any clector. In the explanation to Section 81, an elector is defined 
as meaning a person who is entitled to vote at the election to which the election 
petition relates , whether he has voted at such election or not . In his clcction 
petition , Banbehari Mohanty stated in paragraph 1 that he is an elector to the 
Parliamentary constituency . He did not, however , specify his number in the 
electoral roll, and an interrogatory asking for the information was served on him 
by the respondent. The reply to the interrogatory was furnished by the petitioner 
on 30th June, 1962, the petitioner stating that his name occurred against Sl. No. 76 
of Part 321 page 605 of Salepur Mahanga constituency , and in the electoral roll, 
his house is mentioned as house No. 25 , his village as Mantiri, Police Station 
Salepur and his Gram Panchayat at Raisungura , It may be mentioned that 
Salepur-Mahanga was a double -member constituency in 1958 and the election of 
1962 took place on the basis of the clectoral roll published in 1958. But at the 
time of the Parliamentary election of 1962 the constituency had been split up into 
two separate single -member Assembly Constituencies , namely Salepur and 
Mahanga , and village Mantiri came within Mahanga constituency vide cvidence 


4806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA B , 1886 [PART II 


of P . W . 12 , Indramani Misra , Clerk of the Election Office at Cuttack . In the 
Electoral Roll, against Sl. 76 , the name of Banbehari Mohanty is described as the 
son of Gangadhar Mohanty whereas in the election pctition Banbeharı Mohanty 
has described himself as the son of Rangadhar Mohanty . Banbehari Mohanty 
deposcd in the case as P . W . 13 ; he stated that Gangadhar is the nanie of his 
father s elder brother ; and the family was a joint family and Gangadhar was the 
Karta of the family as the eldest male member , the suggestion being that the 
name of the Karta of the family was wrongly entered in the electoral roll as his 
father s name. He stated that his mother, his wife and his brother were also 
voters and their names were cntered in the voter s list of 1958 , and his Inother 
Suryamani Devi was correctly described as the wife of Rangadhar Mohanty . The 
name of his wife Sakuntala was also entered correctly as the wife of Banbehari 
Mohanty . His mother and wife were shown as belonging to the house No. 25 , the 
same as that of Banbehari Mohanty . Further, Banbehari Mohanty deposed that 
at the Parliamentary election of 1962 he cast his vote at Kusumbi polling station , 
and that when the Polling Omcer asked his father s name and he stated that it 
was Rangadhar Mohanty , the Polling Officer pointed out the discrepancy, and 
the petitioner told him that it was probably a printing mistake. The Sarpanch 
of Raisungura Gram Panchayat was present at the polling station and he corro 
borated the statement of Banbehari Mohanty and thereupon he was permitted 
to vote . There is the evidence of Brahmananda Satpathy, the Sarpanch of 
Raisungura , who deposed in the case as P . W . 10 . He said that village Mantiri is 
within his Gram Panchayat, and he knew the petitioner Banbehari Mohanty , and 
his father Rangadhar, and that at the time of the Parliamentary elcction he acted 
as the Polling Agent for Surendra Mohanty at Kusumbi polling station , and when 
the Presiding Officer of the Polling Station pointed out the discrepancy as to tho 
father s name of Banbchari Mohanty when Banbehari Mohanty came to vote, 
Banbehart told him that it might be a printing mistake and referred to the 
witness , and the witness identified him as Banhehari Mohanty son of Rangadhar 
Mohanty ; and then Banbehari was permitted to vote and a ballot paper was issued 
to him . The witness also stated that Gangadhar Mohanty had only one son alive, 
namely , Gagan Bchari Mohanty and there was no other Banbebari Mohanty in 
Mantiri village. 


It was suggested in cross - examination to Banbehari Mohanty that Gangadhar 
had another son named Banbehari Mohanty . Banbehari denied the suggestion , 
saying that Ganagadhar had no surviving son named Banbehari. He said that he 
had heard from his old family members that Gangadhar had two other sons born 
before the only surviving son Gagan Behari, but those come died before the birth 
of the petitioner Banbehari and he did not see them . It was also suggested to 
Banbehari Mohanty that he was really one Mansur Ali and the name M . Ali was 
tattooed on his left fore - arm . Banbehari was called upon to display his left fore 
arm and he showed the tattoo mark on his left fore- arm which might be read as 
S , M , Ali or as B . Mohi. Banbehari stated that it was his half signature B . Mohanty 
and the first letter was B . The respondent produced no evidence whatsoever in 
support of the two _ suggestions, namely , that Gangadhar had another son named 
Banbehari or that Banbehari was really one Mansur Ali personating as Banbe 
hari. On behalf of the respondent as many as 47 witnesses were cxamined , but 
not one witness was produced to challenge the identity of Banbehari Mohanty 
as the elector whose name was recorded against Si. 76 at page 605 of Salepur 
Mahanga Assembly Constituency . There is , therefore , no reason to disbelieve 
the evidence of Banbehari Mohanty that the tattoo mark appearing on his left 
fore- arm is his own signature as B . Mohanty . Gagan Behari Mohanty , son of 
Gangadhar Mohanty , also deposed in the case as P . W . 11 and he fully supported 
the case of Banbehari Mohanty as to his identity . Banbehari also produced two 
other witnesses to prove his identity viz ., P . W . 8 Sura Nath Das, Ward Member 
of Manitiri, and P . W . 9 Jitendranath Mohanty , clerk of Christ High School. Cut 
tack , who proved an admission Register showing admission of Banbehari Mohanty 
and Rasbehari Mohanty , sons of Rangadhar Mohanty of village Mantiri on 12th 
January, 1938 . Banbehari Mohanty also proved by calling P . W . 12 Indramani 
Misra , Election Clerk of Cuttack District Office , that aficr the Parliamentary 
election Banbehari Mohanty applied for the correction of his father s name in 
the Electoral Roll and that the correction was allowed by the Election Officer 
without any objection . The application for correction was allowed on 10th 
September , 1963, after publication of the application for correction and calling 
for objection , if any , vide the evidence of P . W . 12 . The application for correc 
tion was no doubt made after objection had been taken as to the identity of the 
petitioner Banbehari Mohanty in the Election case, but Banbehari Mohanty s 
explanation appears to be acceptable , namely that it was only at the time when 
he went to vote in February , 1962 , that he found out that there was a mistake as 
to his father s name in the Electoral Roll, and apparently thereafter he did not 
bother, as he was permitted to vote on the identification by the Sarpanch of his 


Sec. 3. 11 ] · THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964/ PAUSA 6 , 1886 


4807 


Gram Panchayat, until objection as to his identity was taken by the respondent. 
Mr. Asok Das on behalf of the respondent has urged that there is an express rule 
hy which a Presicling Officer or the Polling Oncer of a polling station may over 
look a clerical or a printing mistake if satisfied as to the identity of a person as 
the elector in respect of whom an enti y has been mode, ride rule 35 sub -lule ( 4 ) 
of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961, but that there is no l ule for overlooking 
such errors in the electoral roll in the case of an clector who files an election 
petition under section 81 of the Act. The short - reply is that in respect of an 
election petition under section 81, no such express provision is necessary , because 
an election) petition is tried out as a Civil Suit , and both parties therefore have 
the opportunity to adduce evidence to the identity of a petitioner as an elector if 
the point is at issue , and the Tribunal will necessarily make a Anding on the 
point; but the Polling Officer or a Prosiding Officer at the Polling Station hias to 
make a quick summary decision and therefore a rule has been thought necessary 
for his guidance. It has already been mentioned that under the explanation to 
Section 81 an elector means a person entitled to vote at the clection to which the 
election petition relates . Section 62 of the Act provides that no person who is 
not for the time being entered in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be 
entitled to vote . Thus the right to yote and the right to file an election pctition 
depend on the same qualification , namely , being entered in the electoral roll of 
the constituency . If, thcrefore, a person is allowed to vote after disregarding 
aur printing or clerical error in his description in the electoral roll, It follows 
that a person must be entitled to file an election petition in disregard of any 
printing or clerical mistake in his description in the electoral roll . Mr. Ranjit 
Mohanty appearing for the petitioner cited a number of cases in which mis 
description as to father s name of even a candidate for election has been disre 
garded . Reference may be made to Haridas versus Hira Singh Pal, IV E .LR . 
466 , In that case the name of the father of the candidate Ram Das was Jagan 
Das , but Jairam Das was stated in the electoral roll ; the Tribunal held that the nomi 
nation paper had been rightly held valid , because when there is no doubt about 
the identity of the candidate , error in the description in his father s name is imma 
terial. Similarly , in Satis Chandra versus Ganga Singh , VII EL .R . 38, the name 
of the candidate s father was given as Prabhudayal and not Prabhu Lal as 
entered in the electoral roll, but there being no doubt as to the identity of the 
candidate, rejection of the nomination paper because of that discrepancy was 
treld to be wrong . 


It is not necessary to mention any other case . It is a matter of common sense 
that slight error in printing or clerical error is to be disregarded if there is no 
doubt as to the identity . The petitioner has adduced sufflcient evidence to prove 
his identity and the respondent who challenged the identity has not produced any 
iota of evidence in support of the challenge. Mr. Asok Das mentioned at onc 
stage that the petitioner did not produce his mother or his full brother as witnes 
ses ; but the respondent might have discharged the burden on him by producing 
the mother and the brother . If it is urged that it was not possible for the res 
pondent to produrc the mother or the brother of the petitioner because of their 
relationship that is an admission as to the identity of the petitioner as the son of 
Rangadhar Mohanty . This issue is therefore found in favour of the petitioner 
namely that he is an elector . 

Issue No. 3 . - - This issue relates to the question whether ballot papers were 
found missing from the ballot boxes and if so how many and how it would affect 
the case . In para 6 of his election petition Banbehari Mohanty mentioned that 
a large number of votes was missing and a certair number of votes had been can 
celled illegally and had not been taken into account. At the trial, however , the 
witnesses for the petitioner who were present at the Counting Halls , namely , 
P . W . 2 , 3 , 6 and 13 did not say anything about ballot papers being thrown away 
or illegally cancelled . Reliance was inade on the entries in Ex . XVII, the detail 
ed statements in form 20 in respect of each Assembly constitucncy , annexed to 
the result sheet in form 20 which were drawn up by P . R . Chandra when an 
nouncing and then declaring the result. It appears that in Ersama Asscmbly 
Constituency , taking all the 71 polling stations into consideration , 10 ballot papers 
were missing or cancelled . At Tirtol constituency taking all the 60 polling stations 
into consideration , 5 ballot papers were missing or cancelled . At Salepur constituen 
cy taking all the 71 polling stations into consideration , 8 ballot papers were mis 
sing or cancelled . There is no entry missing or cancelled against the remain 
ing Assembly constituencies. There is nothing to show that the cancellations 
were done illegally . There is provision in rule for the cancellation of a ballot 
paper when it is spoilt , and the presumption is that the cancellation was done in 
accordance with the rules. As to the missing of ballot papers , the total number 
of ballot papers found on opening a ballot box was checked against the entry in 
the ballot paper account, which is to be maintained by the Presiding Officer at 


4808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 28 , 1964 / PAURA B 1888 [ PART IK 


each polling station , and when one short ballot paper was found , an entry was 
made that one was missing . It does not appear that at any polling station more 
than one was missing ; and the number missing altogether is very few . The mis 
sing ballot papers can easily be explained , for although under the rules a yoter 
is to insert the ballot paper into the ballot box in the presence of the presiding 
Officer, it is quite possible , particularly when there is a rush , for a voter to take 
away his ballot paper without putting it into the ballot box . This appears to 
have been done in a very few cases when it is remembered that over 2 lakh voteg 
were cast altogether at the Parliamentary election at Kendrapara. The finding 


Issue No , 4 .- - The 4th issue relates to the question whether any ballot papers 
were wrongly cancelled . This has already been dealt with in dealing with Issue 
No. 3 and the reply is in the negative . 

Issue Nos . 5 , 6 , 8 , and 12 - These issues are concerned with the result of 
scrutiny of used ballot papers and they will be dealt with subsequently along 
with the additional issues, which also relate to the result of the scrutiny of the 
ballot papers . 

Issue No. 7 . -- According to the petitioner , Banbehari Mohanty , as also the peti 
tioner Surendra Mohanty , it was notified that the counting of votes would take 
place in the premises of the S . D . O . s office building at Kendrapara , but the count 
ing actually took place in the Hall in the S . D . O . s Office premises and in the Muni 
cipal Hall at Kendrapara , and the counting at the latter place was unauthorised . 
An issue arising out of this averment was not framed in case No. 1 , but in case 
No. 54 only . Surendra Mohanty who deposed as P . W . 7 stated that he had only 
received the notification Ex . III dated 6th February 1962 wherein it was stated 
that the counting of ballot papers of Kendrapara Parliamentary constituency 
would take place on 26th and 27th February in the premises of the S . D . O s Office, 
Kendrapara , but at two places under two Presiding OMcers . In cross -examination 
he was shown the notice Ex . B which was a notification issued by G . V . L . N . 
Murty , the S . D . O . and Assistant Returning Officer , Kendrapara dated 10th Febru - - 
ary 1962 wherein it was stated that the counting on 26th and 27th would take 
place at the Municipal Hall and at the premises of the S . D . O s Office building at 


Ihrsama and Turtol would take place at the Municipal Hall under the supervision 
of the A . D . M . Sri P . R . Chandra, and that the counting of ballot papers of Patkura , 
Kendrapara and Rajnagar and Mahanga Assembly Constitutencies would take 
place at the S . D . O s office building under the supervision of the S . D . O . Surendra 
Mohanty denied that he had received such a notice . But the notice Ex . B ghows 
that it was endorsed both to Surendranath Dwivedy and Surendra Mohanty , and 
there is reason why Surendra Mohanty should not have received it. Further , 
the evidence of the petitioner s witnesses clearly shows that the requisite number 
of Counting Agents of both the parties attended both the places of counting , viz ., 
in the S . D . O s office premises and in the Municipal Hall The Municipal Hall, 
according to the evidence is situated about 100 yards or less from the S . D . O s office 
building at Kendrapara, and even if it is assumed that Surendra Mohanty did 
not actually receive a copy of the notice Ex , B , his locnl agents must have been 
aware from before that the counting would be taking place at the Municipal Hall 
and in the S . D . O s office building and not at two places within the S . D . O s office 
building , and they made arrangements accordingly . I find , therefore , that count 
ing did not take place at any unauthorised placc, and even if Surendra Mohanty 
did not receive a copy of the notice Ex . B , it did not in any way affect the case . 

Issue Nos. 9 , 10 and 11. - - These issues are identical with Issue Nos . 1, 2 and 3 
of Case No. 1 of 1962 and have already been dealt with . 

Issue No , 13 . - This issue relates to the question whether the postal ballots were 
all counted . According to the case of the petitioner, as set out in the Election 
petition , Sri P . R . Chandra gave out that there are 30 postal ballot papers to be 
counted but only 25 ballot papers were recorded in form 20 , and 5 were not 
Accounted for . But the evidence is different. P . W . 2 Narsing Sahu stated that 
Murty Babu said that the postal ballots werc 30 and he brought out the postal 
ballots as directed by Chandra Babu , and when the postal ballots were opened 
they were found to be 25 in number , of which 20 were found to be in favour of 
the Congress candidate and 5 in favour of the P . S . P . candidate . It does not 
appear from his evidence that 5 postal ballot papers were not accounted for, but 
actually 25 postal ballots were there even though G . V . L . N . Murty might have 
stated under a misapprehension that there were as many as 30 postal ballots . 
P . W .6 , Purusottam Naik stated that when poştal ballots were counted it was 
found that the Congress candidate had obtained 20 and the P . S . P . candidate 6 , 


. 


. i 


4809 


but betore postal ballots were counted Srl Murty stated that there were 30 postal 
ballots. It is significant that when G . V . L N Murty was examined for the peti 
tioner as P . W . 31, he was not questioned about it. P . R . Chandra was also exa 
mined as a court witness but he was not questioned about the number of postal 
ballots . It is therefore, clear that there is no substance in the allegation of the 
petitioner that 5 postal ballots were not accounted for . I find that all the postal 
bahots were counted and accounted for . 

Issue No. 14 . - The petitioner, Banbehari Mohanti made the allegation that 
P . R . Chandra had not been validly appointed as Assistant Returning Omcer . 
This issue, is , however , not pressed at the hearing . P . R . Chandra stated that he 
had been appointed as Assistant Returning Officer , and that the District Magis 
trate who was the Returning Officer for the whole district authorised him to 
declare the result for Kendrapara Parliamentary constituency . This statement of 
P . R . Chandra was not challenged , I find , therefore, that P . R . Chandra was 
validly appointed as Assistant Returning Officer , 

Issue Nos. 15 and 16 . — These issues are not pressed and no evidence was at all 
adducel in qupport of the corresponding allegations. These issues are therefore 
answered in the negative. 

Issue No . 17. - In paragraph 41 of his election petition Banbehari Mohanty 
alleged that in Balisahi booth of Salerur Assembly Constituency a Polling Agent 
of Surendranath Dwivedy performed the functions of the Polling Officer and ex 
hihied tiie syrnhol of Surendranath Dwivedy and was canvassing for votes in favour 
of Dwivedy within the booth . On this point there is evidence of P . W . 13, Banbehari 
Mohanty , the petitioner of this election petition . He stated that at the time of 
election he was working for the Congresa candidate and was authorised by him 
to inspcct all the polling booths on his behalf in Salepur Assembly Constituency , 
and that when he visited Balisahi booth under Salepur Constituency , he found that 
a Polling Agent of Surendranath Dwivedy , named Golak Chandra Panda wag 
performing the work of a Polling Officer , that he was handing over the ballot 
papers to the voters and also the instrument of balloting. Banbehari Mohanty 
stated that he drew the attention of the Presiding Officer and submitted a writ 
ten objection , and that on his own copy of the objection petition he obtained an 
endorsement from the Presiding Officer to the effect "He unauthorisedly done" . 
Banberrari Mohanty retained that copy of the objection petition with him and 
produced it at the hearing, and the petition was marked Ex . IV and the endorse 
ment of the Presiding Officer as Ex . IV ( a ) ( Ex . IV of case No. 54 / 62 ) . But the 
original objection petition called for from the Election Office was not forth 
coming and it appears that no such petition had been filled before or at last accept 
ed by the Presiding Omcer , P . W . 13 could not give the name of the Presiding 
Officer. The alleged endorsement has no value as evidence. P . W . 13 admitted 
in cross - examination that he saw Golak Panda was handing over ballot papers 
and the polling instrument to two or three voters only . and further when he was 
making verbal complaint bctore the Presiding Officer, thc Polling Officer No . 2 
for whom Golak Panda temporarily working came back and took charge. It 
would appear from the trend of evidence of the witness that the Polling Officer 
No. 2 went out for personal reasons for about 10 minutes and during that time 
hıc may have asked one of the Polling Agents present in the booth to work for 
him . Even if that be a fact , it does not affect the case , because there is nothing 
to show that when working as Polling Officer for a few minutes , Golak Panda 
tried to influence any voter in favour of Surendranath Divivedy . As regards 
exhibiting the symbol of his party in the polling booth , this fact is not mentioned 
in the petition Ex . IV though P . W . 13 says that he saw a badge iffixed to Golak s 
dress. Golak Panda deposed as a witness for the respondent, being D . W . 6 . He 
said that he was working as a Polling Arent for Surendranath Dwivedy at Balisahi 
booth during the last Parliamentary election , but he denied that he had any symbol 
or badge or that he worked in place of one of the two Polling Omcers even for 
a few minutes . It was put to him whether he would refuse to work as a Polling 
Officer for a few minutes if one of the Polling Officer s had to go out to answer 
a call of nature or for some other personal reason , he answered that he would 
never act as a Polling Officer even in such circumstances . Banbehari Mohanty 
admitted that he was not the Polling Agent for Surendra Mohanty at Balisahi 
and there was a regulár polling agent of Surendra Mohanty at that booth , It is 
somewhat peculiar that the polling agent of Surendra Mohanty from that booth 
did not file any complaint it Golak Panda, the Polling Agent of Surendranath 
Dwivedy worked temporarily as Polling omcer at that booth . Still I do not think 
that Banbehari Mohanty would fabricate a document like Ex . IV of case No. 54 / 
62 if there was no substance in his allegation , and I therefore accept his evidence 
on the point that for a few minutes Golak Panda worked for one of the Polling 
Officers of that booth . But I find that he did not exhibit any symbol of his party 
when so working and he did not canvass on behalf of Dwivedyn the booth . 


1810 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5, 1886 (PART JI 


Accordingly , the result of the election was not at all affected by this irregularity . 
if any . 

Issue No. 18 . — This is identical with Issue No. 5 of case No. 1 / 62 and has ulready 
been dealt with , 

Issue No. 19 . - This issue relates to the question whether the respondent, 
Surendranath Dwivedy caused bullock carts to be hired for conveying the electors 
to polling booths. In paragraph 44 of his election petition the petitioner stated 
that Padma Charan Naik and Banshidhar Sahu who were agents for Surendra 
nath Dwivedy hired bullock carts for conveying clectors of Rahimpur and Khaira 
bag villages . În paragraph 56 the petitioner stated that Deba Jena and Sanatan 
Malik , agents of Surendranuth Dwivedy, hired bullock carts belonging to Radhu 
Kandi and the rickshaw belonging to Sura Malik to convey electors to the pol 
ling booths. The petitioner did not however make serious attempt to prove these 
allegations. The only witness who deposed on the point is P . W . 2 Narging Sahu , 
who was polling agent for Surendra Mohanty on 23rd February 1962 at Gulnagar 


acting at that polling station as polling Agents for Surendranath Dwivedy, and 
that he saw two bullock carts carrying voters within 100 yards of the polling 
station - one cart being driven by Pitambar Sahu and the other cart by Gourang 
Sahu . He said further that Khairabag village was within the jurisdiction of 
Gulnagar Polling Station and some Muslims reside there and he saw some Muslim 
women in Purdah coming by one of the carts . The witness saw male voters in 
the other cart and he knew one of them , his name being Dhani Naik . The wit 
ness questioned Dhani Naik who told him that he was indisposed and so Padma 
Charan Naik sent a bullock cart to him to bring him . The witness learnt Pitam 
bar Sahu , the cartman who brought the women voters that Padma Charan Naik 
had sent the other cart to fetch the Muslim women . The witness stated that he 
filed an objection in writing before the Presiding Officer of the Polling Station , 
but the Presiding Officer refused to accept the objection . Neither Dhani Naik nor 
Pitambar Sahu were examined and therefore the statement of the witness remains 
hearsay evidence, and the fact alleged is not proved . The respondent examined 
a witness namely D . W . 23, Brahmananda Prusty , to counter the evidence of PW . 
2 . He said that he cast his vote at Gulnagar Polling Station at the last Parlia 
mentary election . He said that he was at the Polling Station for half an hour 
between 12 - 30 and 1 P . M . and during that time he did not see any bullock cart 
bringing voters to the polling station . He said that Padma Charan Naik and 
Banshidhar Sahu who were working as Polling Agents for Surendranath Dwivedy 
at the time of Parliamentary election have since joined the Congress Party . This 
was to explain why these two persons were not called as witnesses by the res 
pondent. The evidence of D . W . 23 does not show that voters could not have 
been brought by bullock carts to Gulnagar polling station , but as already point 
ed out, the petitioner did not adduce any direct evidence on the point. What 
he heard from other persons is not evidence to prove an allegation in court . It 
must, therefore be held that the allegation has not been proved and therefore 
the issue must be answered in the negative. 

Issue Nos. 20 to 27. - - In paragraphs 45 to 58 of the petitioner s election peti 
tion , certain other corrupt practices supposed to have been committed by Surendra 
nath Dwivedy or his agents were mentioned , and these issues were drawn up on 
the basis of those allegations. No evidence was adduced by the petitioner to 
substantiate the allegations. The petitioner , Banbehari Mohanty , deposing as P . W . 
13 stated at the end of his examination - in - chief that regarding the corrupt prac 
tices alleged by him , in view of the long pendency of the election cases , he did 
not propose to give detailed evidence . In fact he did not adduce any evidence at 
all regarding the allegations which formed the basis of those issues . Issue Nos. 
19 to 25 must, therefore be answered in negative. Issue No. 20 must be held not 
to have been proved and issue No. 27 does not arise in the circumstances . 

Issues relating to ballot papers. -- Issue Nos. 5 , 6 , 8, 12 and 4 Additional issues . 

Before discussing them it is necessary to decide on a preliminary legal objection 
urged by the learned counsel for the respondent, 

It has been mentioned before that the Tribunal by its order dated 18th August 
1962 allowed the prayer of the petitioner Banbehari Mohanty for inspection of 
the used ballot papers and on 21st August 1962 he allowed a similar petition of 
the respondent for inspection of the used ballot papers; and that the Tribunal 
in making the order for inspection pointed out that the petitioner has to specify 
which valid ballot papers have been wrongly rejected , which invalid ballot 
papers have been wrongly accepted and which yotes for Surendra Mohanty have 
been wrongly counted in favour of Surendranath Dwivedy , and that he could not 
furnish the particulars unless the inspection be allowed ; and that the Tribunal 


SEC . $(11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 ,*1964 /PAUSA "3 , 1886 


4811 


relied on the authority of the Supreme Court decision Bhim Sen V . Gopali & others, 
22 EL. R . 288 . The counsel for the respondent has urged that the law on the 
subjcct has now been restated by the Supreme Court in a later decision , Ram 
Sevak Jadav V . Hussain Kamil Kidwai and others , A . I. R . 1934 S . C . 1249, that under 
the law therein laid down the inspection of the ballot papers could not have been 
allowed in the present case ; and the law laid down by the Supreme Court being 
presumed to be the law Irom the beginning the order allowing the inspection of 
ballot papers is wrong und illcgal, and should be ignored , and tho case decided 
on the other materials before the Tribunal. The Icarned counsel for the respon 
dent has also urged that on the authority of the decision in Ram Sewak Yaday s 
case , a Division Bench of the Punjab High Court consisting of Falşhaw C . J . and 
Grover J . in the case Giuni Kartar Singh V . Jagjit Singh & others , held that an 
order for inspection of ballot papers allowed by the Tribunal was wrong and 
illegal and disposed of the case on other materials , 

In the case Ram Sewak Yadav V . Hussain Kami) Kidwal and others , A . I. R . 
1964 S . C . 1249, the Supreme Court laid down the law as follows: 
" An order for inspection may not be granted as a matter of course : having 

regard to the insistence upon the secrecy of the ballot papers , the 
Court would be justified in granting an order for inspection provid 

ed two conditions are fulfilled : - 
( i ) that the petition for setting aside an election contains an adequate 

statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies in 

support of his case ; and 
( i ) the Tribunal is prima facie satisfied that in order to decide the dis 

pute and to do complete Justice between the parties , inspection 

of the ballot papers is necessary . 
But an order for inspection of ballot papers cannot be granted to support 

vague pleas made in the petition not supported by material facts , 
or to fish out evidence to support such pleas. The case of the peti 
tioner must be set out with precision supported by averments of 
material facts. To establish a case so pleaded an order for inspection 
may undoubtedly , if the interests of justice require , be granted . But 
a merc allegation that the pctitioner suspects or believes that there 
has been an improper reception , refusal or rejection of votes will 

not be sufficient to support an order for inspection " 
In the above decision the Supreme Court did not lay down the « xact nature 
of material facts to be set out in such a case in order to comply with the require 
ments of Section 8.3 sub -section ( 1 ) clause ( a ) of the Representation of People 
Act 1951. The Supreme Court referred to rules 53 to 64 of the Conduct of Elec 
tions Rules 1961, and then proceeded to observe that it was clear that at every 
stage in the process of scrutiny and counting of votes the candidate or his Agents 
have an opportunity of remaining present at the counting of votes, watching the 
proceedings of the Returning Officer , inspecting any rejected votes and to demand 
a recount; therefore a candidate who seeks to challenge an election on the ground 
that there has been improper reception , refusal or rejection of votes at the time 
of counting has ample opportunity of acquainting himself with the manner in 
which the ballot boxes were scrutinised an opened , and the votes were counted ; 
and he has also an opportunity of inspecting rejected ballot papers , and that these 
circumstances must govern the nature of the statements of material facts required 
to be set out in the election petition . It appears that in the election petition by 
Kidwai, it was ayerred in certain paragraphs that numerous ballot papers cast 
in his favour were wrongly included in the bundles of the respondent and that 
ballot papers containing marks clearly indicating the intention of the voter s were 
wrongly rejected as invalid ; and ended up by saying that the petitioner was con 
fident that if the votes actually cast in favour of the petitioner were counted as 
votes of the petitioner and it the improperly accepted votes which had been 
counted in favour of the other respondents were taken out and if the ballot papers 
were correctly sorted , counted and bundled the petitioner shall be found to have 
obtained a majority of votcs. It was held that these ayerments were not suficient 
statements of the required particulars. 

Each case must, however , be judged on its own facts , and it appears that the 
decision in the aforesaid case was influenced by the fact that Kidwoi failed to 
adduce evidence in support of his allegations relating to improper acceptance or 
rejection of ballot papers . In that case the Tribunal had rejected the prayer for 
inspection of ballot papers , but had observed that it in future facts werc brought 
out to show that in the interest of justice , inspection of hallot papers should be 
allowed, necessary orders allowing such inspection would be passed ; but, still , 
Kidwai failed to adduce any oral evidence and merely filed another application 
for inspection which was naturally rejected by the Tribunal; and the Supreme 
Court held that such an order of rejection by the Tribunal was quite correct on 
the facts of the particular case , 


1812 . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


In Giani Kartar Singh s case, ( First Appeal from Order No. 3E /64 ) Grover J. 
went further than the Supreme Court and specified the nature of the statement of 


" Dr. Jagjit Singh , who was the petitioner before the Election Tribunal, 

had to satisfy the statutory rcquirements of Section 83 ( 1 ) ( a ) in the 


his allegations in the petition . . . . . . . . shows that he has failed to give 
all the material facts which could have justified the Tribunal in 
allowing inspection after a prima facie cast had been made out in 
support of the claim for inspection . .. .. .. .. Dr. Jagjit Singh did not give 
any particulars of the polling stations at which those votes were 
pulled ( i. e ., votes illegally rejected by the Returning Officer ) . The 
still more important feature is that no particulars were given with 
respect to the number of votes cast in favour of the appellant which 
allegedly were accepted though they ought to have been rejected , 
nor was anything stated aboul the polling stations at which thosc 
votes were cast , nor the reasons for which those votes should have 
been rejected . . . . . . No lists of the votes intended to be objected 
to or the heads of objection to each of those votes were given , which 
seems to be the essence of the rules to be found in Halsbury , which 
were approved by Their Lordships in Jabar Singh s case . . . . It will not 
be out of place to mention that Dr. Jagjit Singh admitted that he 
did not make any complaint in writing to the Chief Electoral Officer 
or the Election Commissioner about the alleged irregularities at the 

time of counting as mentioned in his election petition ." 
With due respect it appears to me that the observations of Grover J : relating 
to the requirement for supplying the list of votes intended to be objected to in 
the election petition cannot be accepted as correct . It is true that in the case of 
Jabar Singh V , Genda Lal, A . I. R . 1964 S . C . 1200 , their Lordships referred to the 
ru es in Falsbury s Laws of England Vol. XIV , paragraphs 553 and 554, and the 
following extracts were quoted from Halsbury ( 1208 ) : 
" Where a petitioner claims the seat for an unsuccessful candidate alleging 

that he had a majority of lawful votes , either party must six days 
before that appointed for the trial, deliver to the master, and also at 
the address, if any , given by the other side, a list of the votes intend 
ed to be objected to and of the heads of the objection to each of those 

votes ." 
It appears that the extract refers to the supply of the numbers of votes and the 
heads of objection six days before the trial and does not refer to the contents of 
the election petition . In fact under the English law it is not possible for a peti 
tioner to supply the numbers of votes without inspection of the ballot papers, 
tor the Counting Agents and candidates are not permitted to take note of the 
numbers printed on the ballot papers at the time of counting of votes . This will 
appear from rule 46 ( 4 ) of the English Parliamentary Election Rules quoted 
below : 
“ 46 ( 4 ) - The Returning Officer, while counting and recording the number 

of ballot papers and counting the votes , sholl kcep the ballot papers 
with their faces upwards, and takc all proper precautions from pre 
venting any person from seeing the nunibers printed on the back of 

the papers" . 
In suitable cases a petitioner in an English election case obtains an order for ins 
pection of the ballot papers and then supplies the necessary particulars as to the 
numbers of votes sought to be challenged and the heads of objection at least six 
days before the date fixed for the trial. Rule 57 of the English Parliamentary 
Election Rules provides for obtaining such an order , the rule being as follows:---- 

" 57. ( 1) An order 
(a ) for the inspection or production of any rejected ballot papers in the cus 

tody of the clerk of the Crown , or 
( b ) for the opening of a sealed packet of counterfoils and certificates as 

to the employment on duty on the day of the poll, or the ins 

pection of any counted ballot papers in his custody - may be made 
(i) by the House of Commons , or 
(ii ) if satisfied by evidence on oath that the order is required for the 

purpose of instituting or maintaining a prosecution for an offence 


4813 


in relation to ballot papers , or for the purpose of an election peti 

ton , by the High Court or a County Court . 
(2 ) An order for the opening of the sealed packet of countertoils and certi 

ficates, or for the inspection of any counted ballot papers in the said 

custody may be made by the Election Court . .. . . . 
The Indian law relating to the functions of the Counting Agents at the time 
of counting of votes is similar , Although there is no rule expressely laying down 
that at the time of counting , the ballot papers shall be kept with their faces 
upwards and that all persons must be prevented from seeing the numbers printed 
on the back of the ballot papers , it is provided by rule 54 of the Conduct of Elec 
tion Rules 1961 that the Returning Officer shall before he commences the counting 
read out the provisions of Section 128 to such persons as may be present; and 
form 18 of the rules prescribed by the Conduct of Elections Rules relating to the 
appointment of Counting Agents requires a Counting Agent before working as 
such to sign the declaration that he shall not do anything forbidden by Section 
128 of the Representation of People Act 1951 which lias been read and explained 
to him . Section 128 of the Act relates to the maintenance of secrecy of voting 
and provides that every officer, clerk , agent or other person who performs any 
duty in connection with the recording or counting of votes at an election shall 
maintain , and aid in maintaining the secrecy of the voting and shall 
not ( except for some purpose authorised by or under any law ) communicate to 


ment provided for violation of the rule . If the Counting Agents were permitted 
to look at the number of ballot papers printed on the back side at the time of 
counting , the secrecy of voting would be violated , because from the number it 
might be possible to trace the voter, for at each polling station before the polling 
is opened , the polling Agent of each candidate is informed of the first and last 
serial numbers of the ballot papers to be used at that polling Station . 

Moreover the evidence in the case shows that one Counting Agent of a parti 
cular candidate had to see the work of counting at 3 tables, where two counting 
assistants and one counting supervisor were working at each table , as is provided 
by paragraph 6 clause ( c ) of Chapter VIIT of the Hand Book for the Returning 
Officers , a copy of which was produced at the hearing and marked as Ex . N . 
Thus, while six Counting Assistants were sorting out the ballot papers at 3 tables 
under the supervision of 3 Counting Supervisors the Counting Agent was to see 
their work and he was not permitted to handle any ballot papers Rule 56 ( 3 ) 
of the Conduct of Election Rules provides that before rejecting any ballot paper 
the Returning Officer shall allow each Counting Agent present a reasonable oppor 


other ballot paper. There is no provision in fact for allowing inspection of ballot 
papers which are not rejected but counted as valid . A Counting Agent has , 
therefore , little opportunity to look at the valid ballot papers as they are being 
sorted out and counted by the Counting Assistantş . The presence of the Count 
ing Agent only tends to ensure that the Counting Assistants shall do their work 
properly and impartially . It is impossible for any Counting Agent to obtain the 
number of any ballot papers in respect of reception or rejection of which he is 
not satisfied . It is true that he may give the polling station number and the 
constituency number of the ballot rapers regarding the rejection of which he 
has any objection , but that is probably the only further particular that could be 
given in an clection petition before inspection of the ballot papers is allowed . 

The learned counsel for the petitioner has referred to certain decisions in 
support of his contention that inspection was rightly and legally allowed in the 
present case. In Keshao Prasad V . A . D . Mani, 1961 Doabia s Election Cases Vol. 
1 p . 133, the Madhya Pradesh High Court has held as follows: 
" When an elrction is challenged on the ground of miscounting or error in 

counting it is not necessary to give particulars of such errors : it is 
suſicient to give the grounds for believing that there has been error 
on the part of the Returning Officer in counting . From the very : 
nature of the case particulars cannot be given before the inspection 

takes place" . 
In Pyndah Venkakanarayana V . S . Malakonda Reddy and others ( Election 
Petition No. 357 of 1962 ) decided by the Election Trlbunal, Hyderabad , it was 
observed as follows: 
" In regard to the right of a candidate to ask for recount it may be taken 

to be a settled law that no candidate is , as a matter of right, entitled 
to a recount or scrutiny in the usual course , He has to make out a 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964/ PAUSA 5 , 1886 [Part II 


prima facie case for the same and satisfy the Tribunal that the re 
turn was not accurate and that a scrutiny and recount is necessary in 
the interest of justice . .. . . . . .. The English law is also to the same 
effect, laid down as carly as 1886 in Stepney , Tower Hamlet s case 
( 4 O nally and llard Castle s Report of Election Petitions p . 34 ) . 
It has also to be stated that a recount and scrutiny of votes would be 
warranted in the interest oť justice in cascs whcre there is a narrow 
majority , and where the allegation is that there has been a violetin 
on the part of the Returning Officer in observing a statutory rule , in 
the matter of validating the ballot papers . In all such cases , aritual 
prool that the calculation of the votes was wrong is unnecessary . If 
there is an allegation supported by an affidavii ( ur evidence that 
there is cause to suspect the calculation of votes or the distribution 
of ballot papers , the Court can order a recount (or allow inspection ) " . 


The learned counsel for the respondent has urged that the cases cited on 
behalf of the petitioner were decided before Ram Sewak Jaday s case le, before 
the law was finally settled by the Supreme Court , and they are , therefore , no longer 
good law . But the decision in Ram Sewak Jadav s ( ase does not really over - rule 
these decisions or indeed the earlier decision of the Supreme Court in Bhim 
Sen V . Gopali and others , XXII E .L .R . 288 . In Bhim Sen s case, para 8 of the 
petition alleged that the result of the election in so far as it concerns the election 
of respondents 1 and 2 has been materially affected , inter alia , ( iii ) because res 
pondents Nos, 1 and 2 received votes which were yoid and ( iv ) because the pro 
visions of the Representation of the People Act and the orders made thereunder 
were not complied with . Para 10 ( a ) alleged that the Returning Officer did not 
himself discharge the duty of rejecting the ballot papers , and that being a double 
member constituency , it was incumbent on the Returning Omcer to go into each 
case of double voting in order to reject one of the two votes cast in contraven 
tion of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 63 of the Act. Para 10 ( b ) specifed that the 
Returning Officer having failed to discharge his duty of rejecting the ballot papers 
in contravention of section 63 rule ( 3 ) the appellant believed that the respondents 
1 and 2 could receive many vold votes . 


After inspection of ballot papers in the above case , amendment was allowed by 
which the recital of para 10 ( h ) was altered into " the petitioner alleges that res 
pondents 1 and 2 did receive 37 void votes " and added particulars of 37 void 
votes . The Supreme Court held that in the context “ could receive " really meant 
" did receive" and not " might have received " , and that particulars in regard to the 
allegations of this kind could be more definitely supplied only after the ballot 
boxes or containers had been opened and not till then ; and that until such inspec 
tion it would be difficult , if not impossible , for any party to allege afflrm :itively 
how many void votes had been counted in favour of the party declared to be 
validly elected . 


Even though the case Bhim Sen V . Gopali and others was more directly con 


the required particulars after inspection had been valldly allowed , the question 
whether the inspection was legally allowed , cause to be considered at the same 
time, and it is not possible to say that the law as laid down in Bhim Sen V . 
Gopali s case was over - ruled by Ram Sewak Jadav s case , 


As has already been stated , each case must be judged on its own facts . The 
two contesting candladtes in this case polled approximately one lakh votes each 
and there was a difference of only 66 in a total of approximately two lakh ten 
thousand ballot papers. It has already been found that after the counting of the 
ballot papers in all the ballot boxes but before counting of the postal ballots , the 
position was at first believed to be that Surendra Mohanty was leading by 212 
votes . It was only after the totalling was checked that the true position emerged , 
that Surendranath Dwivedy was leading by 81 votes . In such circumstances , jf 


naturally have been allowed and recount made . Apart from the mistake in total 
ling just referred to , another mistake had been made in the process of counting 
which was corrected subsequently on the representation of the Counting Agent 
of Surendra Mohanty , namely , in respect of booth No . 9 of Salepur Assembly 
constituency . It appears from the evidence of P . R . Chandra, examined as a 
Court witness, that in respect of that polling station it was at first recor !rd in 
the Result sheet that Dwivedy had obtained 313 and Mohanty had obtained 126 
votes. But the true position was that Mohanty had obtained 313 and Dwivedy 


SEC . 


11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1086 


4815 


-- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


did not remember whether the correction was made as a result of any represen 
tation made by the Counting Agent or by the counting staff themselves found 
out the inistake and reported the matter to Mr, Chandra ; and he said that it 
might be that the Counting Agent of a party had made a complaint to him . 
There is definite evidence of P - W 6 , Purusottam Naik that he pointed out the 
mistake to the Assistant Returning Oncer and thereupon it was corrected . In 
one of the petition for recount which was actually Aled , this mistake was men 
tioned as a ground for allowing recount ; and it is not unreasonable that Surendra 
Mohanty and his partisans should think that if one mistake had been committed 
there might be other such mistakes which had not been detected . In the circum 
stances a recount could have been eminently reasonable , and it was to the mis 
fortune of Surendra Mohanty that owing to illness or otherwise he was not per 
sonally present in the Counting Hall when the result was announced and he aid 
not have any Election Agent competent to flle a valid petition for recount. 
Surendra Moharty applied to the Orissa High Court for a directive on tíre Re 
turning Officer for holding a recount, but the Orissa High Court naturally held 
that a writ petition was not maintainable . The aggrieved party in order to ob 
tain relief filed this election petition , and in the circumstances the order for Ins 
nection which practically involved recount, as made by the Tribunal, in the facts 
of the case appears to be fully justifled . 


It has already been mentioned that on 281.h February 1962 Surendra Mohanty 
sent a telegram Ex , VIII to the Chicf Election Commissioner complaininx that 
the counting of votes was conducted under suspicious and confusing circumstances ; 
and on 2nd March 1962 another telegram Ex . IX was sent by him to the Election 
Commissioner complaining of illegal rejection and acceptance of votes . This is 
mentioned here onl because the Punjab Iligh Court in Giani Kartar Singh V . 
Jagjit Singh s case observed that Dr. Jagjit Singh did not even send a complaint to 
the Election Commission regarding the irregularities alleged by him to have been 
committed at the time of counting . In the present case such a complaint was 
sent to the Election Commissioner by Surendra Mohanty. It is true that in 
Surendra Mohanty s election petition he did not repeat the allegation as to wrong 
ful rcjection and reception oť votey , but sought to rely on the case that the Assis 
tant Returning Officer had been coerced into breaking the rules and declaring the 
Iesult. In Banbehari Mohanty s election petition , specific allegations as to wrongful 
reception and rejection of votes are made in paragraphs 9 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 26 and 27. 
It is true that Banbehari Mohanty did not furnish particulars as to the polling 
stations where, according to him , ballot papers had been illegally rejected ; and 
It is also true that Banbehari s case that irrcgularities on the part of the Counting 
Assistants and Counting Supervisors in the matter of reception , rejection or 
counting of votes were observed , does not appear to be acceptable on the evidence . 
On this point P . W . 2 , Narsing Sahu , P . W . 3 , Radhashyan Agarwalla and P . W . 6 , 
Purusottam Naik gave evidence for the petitioner and they stated that they notic 
er irregularities in accepting and rejecting votes, and they noticed bias being 
displayed by some of the Counting Assistants e . g . by smiling when the P . S . P . 
candidate was leading in a particular polling station . But the witnesses admitted 
that in written objection petition was flled before the Assistant Returning Omcers, 
On the side oť the respondent, D . W . 1 , Pradipta Kishore Das, D . W . 3 , Bhagabat 
Prasad Mohanty , D . W . 7 , Krishna Chandra Mallik and D . W . 8 , Akulananda 
Behera, who all acted as Counting Agents of Sri Dwivedy, said that the work of 
counting procecded in a proper manner and that they could see any ballot paper 
which they wanted to see , and they did not notice any irregularity or bias. The 
Assistant Returning Officers , namely , P . R . Chandra who was examined as a 
Court witness and G . V . I., N . Murty , who was examined as P . W . 31 , stated that 
no complaint whatever was made to them as to any irregularity in counting by 
either party . The District Magistrate , G . Venkataramani examined as D . W . 4 
stated that he paid a visit to Kendrapara on the Arst day of counting and was 
in the Municipal Hall and the S . D . O s counting Hall for about 3 hours altogether 
and during that time he noticed every one working regularly and no complaint 
was made to him . But still in view of the peculiar circumstances of the case dis 
cussed before , namely that there was a mistake made in noting down the num 
ber of votes polled by the parties in respect of one polling station , and that there 
was a mistake initially in totalling the votes with the result that Mohanty con 
sidered himself as a winner and was probably prevented from taking steps in time 
for Aling a recount petition , I hold that the order for inspection involvink practi 
cally a recount was properly and legally made . I may add that as a result of the 
Inspection , quite a number of errors was found . Some errors are no doubt in 
evitable when a large number of Counting Assistants were counting the ballot 
papers rapidly , but there was at least one serious error when 49 valid ballot papers 


4816 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA % , 1886 [Part II 


in favour of Dwivedy were erroneously bundled in a sub -bundle of 50 of the 
Congress candidate and counted for him . 

I may add that even if I were to hold that Inspection was wrongly allowed 
by the order dated 18th August 1962 I could not reverse the order after the order 
had been made and acted upon , and after an appeal from the order had been re 
jected by the High Court . There is no valid ground at all for review . It is 
well known that u change brought about by a reported decision is not a ground 
for review . Moreover in the present case a review application was made before 
the Member of the Tribunal who made the order for inspection , namely , Mr. Bri ] 
Mohan Lall, and the review application was dismissed by his order dated 20th 
August 1962 . There is no scope , therefore , in any case for a review . Accordingly 
we must proceed on the view that inspection was not illegally and improperly 
allowed . 

Mr. Asok Das appearing for the respondent argued a further point in this con 
nection , namely , that even if the order for inspection of ballot papers has to stand , 
in any case the order for amendment of Banbehari s election petition and the 
recriminations by adding schedules of objected ballot papers was wrong and 
should be ignored . His argument is that if the election petition did not contain a 
sufficient statement of material facts in connection with the case of worngful re 
jection or Wrongful acceptance of votes, anendment of the petition to give fur 
ther particulars of such material facts was without jurisdiction . In this connec 
tion he has cited a Supreme Court decision Harish Chandra Bajpai V . Triloki 
Singh , 12 E ,L , R . 461 (also A . I. R . 1957 Sc . c . 444 ) . That was a case where the 
Supreme Court had to consider the legality of permitting further particulars to 
be added in respect of corrupt practice . The Supreme Court held that the Trilliunal 
has the power to allow particulars in respect of corrupt practice to be amended , 
Provided the election petition itself has set out the grounds or charges and the 
petitioner merely seeks permission to add new instances of such charges. In that 
case, although certain corrupt practices were alleged in the clection petition , it 
was not averred that village headmen or Mukhias appointed by Government had 
been employed by the sucessful candidate for canvassing on his behalf ; but an 
amendment was sought to be made, and was allowed by the Tribunal , alleging 
that certain Mukhias had been so employed . The Supreme Court held that the 
amendment was wrongly allowed because the original election petition did not 
way that the services of any such Government servant like village headman 
appointed by Government had been employed for the purpose canvassing. The 
Supreme Court observed that apart from the provisions of Setion 83 ( 3 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act, the Tribunal has the power under order 6 
Rule 17 of the Civil Procedure Code to allow amendment of an election petition , 
but that the power cannot be exercised so as to permit new grounds or charges 
to be addert or to so alter the character as to make it in substance a new petition , 
If on that date a fresh petition on those allegations would be time barred , 


I must hold , however, that the principles as laid down in the above ruling 
have no application to the facts of this case . The election petition of Banbehari 
Mohanty did contain sufficient specific allegations about worngful reception , re 
jection and counting of votes , and the amendment by including the particulars 
was allowed in accordance with the principles set out by the Supreme Court in 
Bhim Sen V . Gopali and others , XXII E . L . R . 268 . No new case was sought to 
be made out by the petitioner . The argument that the amendment was without 
Jurisdiction or was improperly allowed cannot, therefore , be accepted at all. 


Last Additional Issue - This issue runs as follows: 
" Whether the user ballot papers were properly kept in safe custody after 

counting or were they tampered with ? Have they any cvidentiary 


value ? " . 


The learned counsel for the respondent has strongly urged that the rules for 
the custody of ballot papers were not followed , and that in view of the mantier 
in which they were actually kept they have no evidentiary value , for it is not 
possible to And out which ballot papers were rejected and which ballot papers 
were counter for which candidate , and so the question of wrong rejection or 
wrong counting cannot arise . It høs further been urged that the condition in 
which the used ballot papers were found in the steel containers is an evidence la 
support of the respondent s case of tampering . 

Part V rules 50 to 66 of the Conduct of Election Rules 1961 deals with the 


SEC, 9/ 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 1 DECEMBER 28 , 1964 /PAUSA 5, 1048 


4817 


trection as to the mode of keeping the ballot papers after counting . Rule 56 
sub -rulę ( 1) is as follows: 
" The hallot papers taken out of each ballot box shall be arrangerl in con 

venicnt bundles and scrutinized " . 
More ( etailed instructions are given in the Hand Book tor Returning Officers, 
Ex . N . There is an appendix to Chapter VIII of the Hand Book headed " Instruc 
tions to Counting Supervisors and Assistants" . Paragraphs 5 , 8 and thereof 
are relevant and are quoted below : 
" 5 . Take out the ballot papers , a few at a time, unfold and simultaneously 

sort them out Put cach ballot paper valldly marked for a carulidate 
in the compartment place assigned to that candidate and put each of 

the doubtful ballot papers in the compartment place marked D " . 
" 8 . After all the ballot papers have been so sorted , count the ballot papers 

in cach of the stacks, making them up in lots of 50 and the balance 
in one lot . tie them up in separate bundles, and note the result of the 
100ting in ink in Part II of the ballot paper account in form 16 and 
sign the same. While making the ballot papers into bundles 
arrange the ballot papers in such a manner that the symbols on the 
vallot papers are all on the same side . While counting the ballot 


pach paper is clearly in favour of that candidate . Also rheck the 
total number of ballot papers found in the box , as noted by you on 
Part II of the ballot paper account with the number of ballot papers 
which ought to be in the ballot box according to Part I of the ballot 
paper account. Any discrepancy should be brought to the notice of 

the Returning Officer" . 
" 9 . Put the ballot paper arcount on top B bundle immediately helow , and 

below that , the bundles for candidates, 1 , 2 , 3 , etc . Tie up in one 

packet and leave the packet with the Returning Officer" . 
Chapter VIII itself of the Hand Book contains instruction to be followed by 
the Returning Omver or the A - sistant Returning Omrer in respect of counting 
of votes. Paragraph 15 clause ( k ) and ( 1 ) require a Returning Officer to take up 
the packets of stored ballot papers referred to in paragraph 9 of the Appendix 
one by one and scrutinize and decide about the ballot papers in the doubtful 
bundle after allowing an opportunity to the Counting Agents to see them , and 
then put his order of reiection with stamp or in witing , with the grounds of 
rejection , on the rejected ballot papers in the form RNM , RMBA , RMV and so 
on . He must put the ballot piloors of the doubtful bundle , which he finds volld 
for any candidate , in a sub -bundle of the appropriate candidate . Clause ( p ) 
requires that thercafter the Returning Officer must incorporate the result in Form 
20 and rearl out the entrins to the candidates or cause the entries to be written 
in a blackboard . Clause ( q ) is as follows: 
" Finally have all the valid ballot papers put into one container and the 

rejected ballot papers in another container and have both the contain 
ers senled . Do not put the Ballot Paper Account into either of these 

containers ." 
The evidence in this case shows that though the rules in Chapter VIII of the 
Iland Book were generally followed the valid and rejected ballot papers of each 
polling station were not put into separate bundles and they were not sealed . 
The evidence of P . W . 31, G . V . L .N . Murty may be referred to in this connection . He 
stated as follows: 
" I was following the instructions contained in the Hand Book for Returning 

Oncers . Paragraph 15 of Chapter VIII of that Iland Book relates 
to the procedure for counting of ballot papers and dealing with the 
hallot papers after counting . Clause ( q ) of paragraph 15 directs 
that all valid ballot papers of one polling station should be put into 
one container and the rejected ballot papers into another container 

and both the containers should be sealed . 
This was not followed but the valid ballot papers were tied up separately in sub 
hundles and all the ballot papers of one polling station were tied up with string 
and put into one big bundle. " 


The cvidence of P . R . Chandra , the other Assistant Returning Officer is to 
the same effect, although he did not expressly refer to clause ( q ) of paragraph 


4818 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA B , 1886 [PART II 


15 Chapter VIII of the Hand Book . P . R . Chandra also said that as soon as the 
counting of the ballot papers of one constituency was over , the used ballot papers 
were put into one steel box or container and the container was sealed then and 
there ; that the used ballot papers were bundled according to the booths before 
they were put into containers but the bundles were not sealed , for the container 
was scaled and that was considered sufficient . It may be mentioned that the 
bundles of used ballot papers of the 7 Assembly constituencies comprising 
Kendrapara Parliamentary constituency were put into 8 such steel boxes or con 
tainers. D . W . 4 , the District Magistrate in whose presence the inspection of the 
ballot papers started on 15 - 9 -62, described the condition in which the ballot papers 
were found on opening a container . He said " in every case the valid and the 
rejected ballot papers were kept in one bundle . By that it is meant that they 
were tied up into one big bundle one for cach polling station , inside these bundles 
were sub -bundles containing valid ballot papers of each side and the rejected 
ballot papers were usually kept tied in another separate sub -bundle but in some 
cases they were kept loose between the sub -bundles of valid papers ." 


Surendra Mohanty who deposed as P . W , 7 and also Banbehar Mohanty , P . W . 
13 gave a description of how the ballot papers had been kept. All the ballot 
papers of oner polling station were tied up into one big bundle . On one side 
were the sub - bundle containing valid ballot papers in favour of Surendranath 
Dwivedy and on the other side the sub -bundles of valid ballot papers in favour 
of Surendra Mohanty , and in hetween the rejected ballot papers, sometimes 
tied up into e suh -hundle and sometimes kept loose . The sub -bundles of valid 
ballot papers in favour of a particular candidate usually contained 50 ballot papers 
each and one smaller sub -bundle containing the remaining ones after the sub 
Dunrlles of 50 had been made . 

It may be mentioned here that as dictinct from the Hand Book , the Conduct 
of Election Rules does not specifically prescribe that the rejected ballot papers 
and the valid ballot papers should be kept in separate sealed packets although it 
prescribes that the rejected ballot papers should be bundled separately . Thus, 
rule 56 sub - rule ( 5 ) says " All hallot papers rejected under this rule shall be 
bundled together” . Rule 57 sub - rule ( 3 ) says " The valid papers shall thereafter 
he bundled together and kept along with the bundle of rejected ballot papers in 
a separate packet which shall be sealed and on which shall be recorded the 
following particulars , namely : 

( a ) the name of the constituency , 
( b ) the partirulars of the polling station where the ballot papers have been 

used , and 
( c ) the date of counting." 
Under these rules , therefore, after tying up the rejected ballot papers of a polling 
station into a separate bundle , that bundle should be kept along with the bundle 
of valla ballot papers of that polling station and the whole bundle sealed and 
lahelled in the prescribed manner . In the present case the bundles of each 
polling station were not sealed , nor were these labels containing the required 
particulars affixed to thein . The Assistant Returning Omrers have stated that 
labels were put on the containers showing the number and name of the consti 
tuency and the numbers of the polling stations and the date of counting and that 
was considered sulficient. 


The counsel for the respondent has urged that neither rule 57 sub - rule ( 3 ) 
nor clause ( q ) of paragraph 15 of Chapter VIII of the Hand Book requires that 
the valid ballot papers of dillcrent candidates should be kept separately , and that 
in the present case by keeping the valid ballot papers separately on two sides of the 
bundle of ballot papers of a polling station with the rejected ballot papers separat 
ing thrm , the Returning authorities did something not required under the rules , 
and that the petitioner could not take advantage of this to say that partirular 
valid ballot papers had been counted for a particular candidate . It has already 
been mentioned however that the instructions to Counting Supervisors and Counting 
Assistant specifically require that the valid ballot papers of each candidate should 
be separately stacked and made into lots of 50 and tied up accordingly and then 
all the valid ballot papers as well as the rejected ballot papers are to be presented 
before the Returning Officer for his check and for his decision on the doubtful 
bundles. It is not , said that all the valid ballot papers of the candidates should 
thereafter be mixed up , Naturally the valid ballot papers of each candidate tied 
up into sub -bundles are required to be kept separate . It cannot, therefore , be 
said that the Returing authorities did something not contemplated by the rules. 


Src, 8( ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA %, 1886 


4819 


- - - - - 


wn 


The Counsel for the respondent also advanced a practically contrary argument, 
saying that since slips or labels were not attached to the bundles stating to which 
polling station and Assembly constituency the ballot papers appertained and 
stating which sub -bundles had been counted for which candidate , it was impos 
sible to find out in respect of a particular ballot paper to which polling station 
it appertained and for whom it had been counted. This argument, however, 
appears to be an argument of desparation and cannot be accepted at all. In this 
connection I may usefully refer to the relevant portion of the evidence of the 
District Magistrate examined as D . W , 4 . 


" I found out the booth number of each bundle from the official seal or 

distinguishing mark at the back of the ballot paper. Beforc cach 
hundle was opened I gave full opportunity to the parties and their 
lawyers to inspect the distinguishing marks and there was no objec 
tion or disagreement as to the booth to which a particular ballot 
paper appertains. Inside each bundle there were the valid votes of 
cach candidats tied up in separate sub -bundles and there was no 
difficulty in ascertaining which ballot papers were counted for which 
Candidate ." 


It is true that in certain cases some discrepancies were detected , but in all such 
cases objections were filed and the ballot papers in respect of which such discre 
pancies detected were included in the schedule of objected ballot papers , by one 
party or the other . The objected ballot papers were all exhibited in Court , being 
taken out from the sub -bundles containing them during the examination in Court 
of P . W . 7 , Surendra Mohanty . The objccted ballot papers add up to about 7 , 000 . 
In respect of the remaining 203000 odd ballot papers there was no objection , for 
they were found kept according to the arrangement as described by the District 
Magistrate . In this connection it is relevant to refer to a portion of the evidence 
of the respondent, Surendranath Dwivedy who deposed as D . W . 2 . Although he 
started by saying that in his opinion it was not possible to distinguish which hallot 
papers were counted for which party and that it was also difficult to ascertain 
to which polling station a particular ballot paper appertained, he was constrained 
to admit as follows in cross - examinatior ; 


" Although I claim that in view of the manner in which the ballot papers 

had been kept it was not possible to be definite as to whether a 
particular ballot paper had been counted for the Congress or the 
P . S . P . candidate, still on the assumption that if the first ballot paper 
of a sub -bundle was a vote for a particular party all the ballot papers 
in that sub -bundle were votes for the same party , we proceeded to 
prepare schedules of the ballot papers which had been wrongly 
counted and these schedules were included as annexures. I admit 
that in the sub -bundles of ballot papers which were taken to be sub 
bundles of votes counted for the Congress , except for thc 3000 or 
4000 votes mentioned in Cols . 3 and 4 of my annexures, the remaining 
ballot papers were votes for the Congress candidate ." 


Similarly except for the 3000 or 4000 votes mentioned in Cols. 3 and 4 of Ban 
behari s revised annexure the remaining ballot papers of the sub -bundles taken 
to be the sub -bundles of P . S . P . were valid votes for the P . S . P , candidate . 


It was argued by the counsel for the respondent at one time that the depar 
tures from the above arrangements were such that one could not safely proceed 
on the assumption that it the last ballot paper of a bundle showed the distinguish 
ing mark of a particular polling station and constituency , all the ballot papers 
of that bundle would appertain to that polling station an constituency , or that if 
the first ballot paper of a sub -bundle was a valid vote for a particular candidate 
all the ballot papers of that sub -bundle were valid votes for the same candidate . 
Reference has been made in this connection to a statement of P . W . 7 at page 363 
of his deposition relating to the ballot papers marked R 2478 and R / 2479 . These 
two yalid ballot papers , which were found validly marked for the P . S . P . candi 
date , were lying loose in the bundle of ballot papers relating to booth No. 16 of 
constituency 109 ; but on the side on which the Congress sub - bundles had been 


Congress candidate was inserted in a sub - bundle of ballot papers of the P . S . P . 
candidate . A dispute having arisen as to whether these ballot papers R / 2478 and 
R / 2479 had already been counted for the P . S . P . candidate , the Tribunal counted 
and checked all the ballot papers of the Polling Station against the result sheet 
in form 20 and found that these ballot papers had already been counted for the 


1820 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [PART II.-- 


P .S . P . candidate . P . W . 31, G . V . L , N . Murty , was questioned about this case 
and his reply is as follows: 
" I cannot say exactly how in this particular case this irregularity was caus 

cd , but it is possible that these 3 ballot papers which were mis - placed 


Assistants and Supervisors, and on examination I found two of them 
valid votes for the P . S . P . candidate and one valid vote for the Con 
gress candidate but thesc 3 ballot papers were not put inside the 
proper sub -bundles but they were just pushed into the sub -bundles " 
( i. e , at random ) . 


Many of the other irregularities found out in course of inspection and recorded 
at the time of examination of P . W . 7 were caused by mis -placing the ballot papers 
which had first been put into the doubtful bundle and then found to be valid and 
Accordingly counted for one candidate or the other. 


Reference has been made to the fact that 30 ballot papers with the distinguish 
ing mark 104 / 35 . e . polling station No . 35 of Mahanga constituency were found 
tied up in the bundle of ballot papers appertaining to booth No. 48 of that consti 
tuency . In this connection , at the time of inspection Surendranath Dwivedy 
Aled an objection pctition on 1st October , 1962 (Ex . 0 / 15 ) and the fact is also 
mentioned in the proceedings of the Additional District Magistrate, Ex . DD , 2 , 
dated 1st October, 1962 . It was for this reason that objection was filed relating 
to 29 ballot papers marked R / 178 to R / 206 . In view of this fact all the ballot 
papers of polling station 35 as well as polling station 48 of constituency 104 were 
counted and checked against the result sheet , and it was found that a bundle of 
30 ballot papers appertaining to booth 35 had been mis - placed in the bundle of 
booth 48 , and on including these 30 hallot papers in the ballot-papers of booth 35 
and excluding them from ballot papers oť booth 48 , the number was found to 
tally with the number noted in the result sheet . It would appear that after the 
necessary check at the table of the Assistant Returning Officer , when a Countilig 
Assistant finally bundled up the ballot papers for putting them into the steci 
container , somehow a sub -bundle of booth 35 was tied up with the bundle of 
ballot papers of booth 48. But from the distinguishing marks as well as the check 
against the result sheet , the correct position can be ascertained as has been done, 
and therefore this irregularity can be no further rcason for thinking that it could 
not be ascertained for which candidate a particular valid ballot paper had been 
counted . 

It is not necessary to refer to other irregularities mentioned in the course of 
argument. The irregularities fall into two classes — some were caused by mis 
placing doubtful ballot papers found as valid by the Returning Officer into wrong 
sub - bundles . Such cases have all been checked up by counting all the ballot 
papers of the particular polling station and checking against the totals as noted 
In the result sheet in form 20 . The second class of error is where a ballot paper 
was erroneously counted . As the District Magistrate stated in the course of his 
deposition , errors were made either way i.e . in favour of and against each of the 
candidates. The most serious of such errors was in respect of polling station 70 
of Salepur Constitucncy No. 105 . One of the sub -bundles of that polling station 
kept with the sub -bundles of ballot papers counted for Surendra Mohanty cun 
tained 49 valid ballot papers for Surendranath Dwivedy topped by one hallot 
paper validly marked for Surendra Mohanty . These 49 ballot papers have been 
marked as Ex . R 876 to R / 924 , and it is the common case of the parties that these 
49 ballot papers were mis - counted and should be taken out of the number of 
valid yotes counted for Surendra Mohanty and added to the number oť valid 
votes counted for Surendranath Dwivedy . All the ballot papers of this polling 
Station were also counted and checloent ainst the result sheet and the result 
sheet was found to be wrong in respect of these 49 hallot papers. But the total 
number of ballot papers of the polling station tallied with the total 11umber of 
ballot papers as mentioned in the result sheet. 

In some other polling stations there were only stray cases of ballot papers thus 
wrongly counted and they have all been included in the schedules and marked 
as cxhibits in coursc of the deposition of P . W . 7, and D . W . 1, Pradipta Kishore 
Das was also examined regarding those of the ballot papers which were claimed 


correct the result has to be adjusted accordingly , but this does not take away 
the validity of the general arrangement of the ballot papers , namely , that the 
valid ballot papers of Surendra Mohanty tied up in sub -bundles of 50 were placed 
on one side of the bundle , the valid ballot papers of Surendranath Dwivedy tied 
up in similar sub -bundies were placed on the other side and the rejected ballot 


SFC , ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 4821 

- = 
papers were placed in between , and it was therefore possible to find out for which 
side a valid ballot paper had been counted . 


The learned counsel for the respondent also argued streneously that there had 


the containers. A number of facts have been mentioned in this connection as 
items of circumstantial evidence to prove tampering. Thus, it has been stated 
that the petitioner Surendra Mohanty is an employee of one of the concerns of 
Bijoyananda Patnaik who was the Chief Minister at the time of election and 
there is evidence that the then Chief Minister Bijoyananda Patnaik and the 
Deputy Chief Minister, Biren Mitra took a great deal of interest in the election 
at Kendrapara Parliamentary constituency . There is evidence not only of their 
canvassing in the constituency but they appear to have put in as many as 19 
telephone calls to the Subdivisional Officer or the Additional District Magistrate 
at Kendrapara on 27th February , 1962 in order to ascertain the result of the 
counting. Both P , R . Chandra and G . V . L . N . Murty admitted that there were 
some calls received from the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister ; and the 
respondent cxamined the Telephone Supervisor from the Posts and Telegraphs 
Ofice , namely , D . W . 5 , Santosh Mohanty , who gave evidence about the number 
of telephone calls between Cuttack and Kendrapara and Bhubaneswar and 
Kendrapara. He said that 9 of the calls from Cuttack 176 were booked by the 
Chief Minister and 10 of the calls were booked by the Deputy Chicf Minister from 
Cuttack 302. The witness could not state who had booked the calls from 
Bhubaneswar 304. Mr. Asok Das argued at one stage that by asking the Assist 
ant Returning Omcers about the latest position of counting the Chief Minister 
and the Deputy Chic Minister were violating the provisions relating to secrecy 
of voting ; but this is not correct, because the provision of secrecy of voting means 
that nobody shall reveal how a particular voter has voted , but the latest position 
in counting is not a secret of which the publication is wrong. It is well known 
that the latest position before the counting is complete is published in the news 
papers, such publications are no offences against the law . It is true that the Chief 
Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister of the time showed too great anxiety about 
the result ; but this , by itself, is po argument for any irregularity or tampering . 

It has next been mentioned that P . R . Chandra informed the Chief Minister or 
the Deputy Chief Minister that the Congress candidate was leading by 212 votes, 
and that after the mistake in totalling had been found out he took the trouble of 
informing the Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister by phone about the 
correct position before proceeding to announce or declare the result, and that 
the delay in declaring the result was objected to by Surendranath Dwivedy vide 
the petitions Ex . FF. and Ex . BB , and it has been urged that Mr. Chandra was not 
acting correctly . But if P . R . Chandra had given a wrong information to the 
Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister it was quite proper on his part to 
correct the mistake before proceeding to formally announce and declare the result . 

The violation of Rule 57 ( 3 ) as to sealing of the packets of ballot papers, as 
also para 15 ( q ) of Chapter VIII of the Hand Book has been mentioned as one of 
the circumstances in this connection . This point has already been discussed 
fully . The omission to seal packets is not at all a circumstance going to show 
that there was any tampering . Surendranath Dwivedy in course of his evidence 
stated that he wanted to put his seal on the containers in order to ensure that 
there should be no tampering and that this was refused by the Assistant Return 
jng Officers and that he made a complaint accordingly to the Election Commis 
sioner . Both P . R . Chandra and G . V . L . N . Murty have denied that Dwivedy 
made such a claim , and Dwivedy did not mention this point in his earlier tele 
gram Ex . AA & Ex . AA / 1 , and even in the latter Ex . AA / 2 which he wrote to the 
Elcction Commissioner enclosing copies of the telegrams, which appears to have 
been received by the Office of the Election Commissioner on 5th March , 1962, but he 
mentioned the fact only in his application Ex . AA3, dated 6th March , 1962 for 
safe custody of the ballot papers , By that time Dwivedy knew of the writ pcti 
tion for recount which had been Aled by Surendra Mohanty , and anyhow the 
recital in Ex . AA / 3 is not a statement made at or about the time and is not there 
fore admissible as a corroborating evidence . The denial of the two Assistant 
Returning Officers on this point must be accepted , particularly because on one 
point at least Surendranath Dwivedy appears to have given deliberately false 
evidence . Thus, he stated in his examination - in - chief that 15 or 20 minutes after 
the result had been formally declared a petition purporting to have been signed 
by Surendra Mohanty asking for a recount Was filed and two more such peti 
tions were Aled shortly thereafter . and Sri Chandra put the time of receipt on 
these pctitions; that at that time Dwivedy tas waiting for his certificate that he 
had been declared elected , and he noticed that the used ballot papers were being 
put into the packets and sealed and then they were put into containers. The 
object of making that statement is that it would conclusively show that the 


4822 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [ PART II 


bundleg of ballot papers were tampered with after being put into the containers , 
because when they wero opened at the time of inspection before the District 
Magistrate from the 16th September , 1962 no seals were found on the packets or 
bundle of ballot papers . But only Surendranath Dwivedy and no one else of his 
witnesses spoke of the bundles of ballot papers being thus sealed before being 


that during the inspection of ballot papers many objuctions were filed by him or 
on his behalf, and that in none of these petitions at the time of inspection did he 
mention the fact that he had seen some packets of ballot papers being sealed on 
27th February , 1962, and that during the hearing before Mr. Brij Mohan Lall or 
Mr. D . N . Roy also he did not file any objection petition expressly stating that 
although he had seen some of the packets of ballot papers being sealed they were 
not found in a sealed condition . Both the Assistant Returning Officers stated that 
none of the bundles was scaled and this is supported by the condition of the 
bundles found on opening the containers at the time of inspection . The claim 
on the point hy Surendra Nath Dwivedy cannot be accepted at all. 

The District Magistrate has stated that he anticipated that there would be an 
election petition Aled in respect of the result of the Parliamentary election at 
Kendrapara , and therefore he went to Kendrapara shortly after the counting and 
took charge of the sealed containers which had been kept in the Strong Room of 
the Kendrapara Şub - treasury and had them transferred by police van to the 
Strong Room of Cuttack Treasury . On behalf of the respondent it has been 
urged that there is a discrepancy between the evidence of the District Magistrate 
and the Additional District Magistrate as to the date on which the District Magis 
trate took charge of the sealed containers. The Additional District Magistrate 
stated that on 27th February , 1962 , after completing the work in connection with 
the counting and declaration of the result as regards the Kendrapara Parlia 
mentary constituency , he stayed for the night at Kendrapara because he received 
a certain telegram from the District Magistrate , and on the following day i. eus 
28th February , 1962, the District Magistrate came to Kendrapara and took charge 


to Cuttack . The District Magistrate stated that he went and took charge of the 
steel containers two days after the counting was over, which would mean that 
he went on the 1st of March and not on 28th February , 1962, but the District 
Magistrate added that he did not remember the exact date on which he went to 
Kendrapara to take charge of the steel containers, and that he could get the exact 
date from his tour diary which , however, was not called for and produced . The 
other Assistant Returning Officer , G . V . L . N . Murty also stated that he was 
present on 28th February , 1962, when the District Magistrate came and took 
charge of the containers with the hallot papers. Accordingly it must be held that 
it was on 28th February , 1962 and not on ist March , 1962 that the District Magis 
trate took charge , and no inference as to any tampering on the 281h February , 
1962 can be made from the alleged discrepancy . 

It has also been urged that the Election Commissioner by his order Ex . E , 
dated 9th March , 1962, directed the Chief Electoral Officer to take charge of the 
sealed bundles of valid and rejected ballot papers, and that no report was made 
to him that the Chief Electoral Officer only took charge of the steel containers 
and did not verify whether the containers contained sealed bundles. But Ex , D , 
the letter from the Secretary to the Election Commission to the Chief Electoral 
Officer . Orissa enclosing the order Ex . E by the Chief Election Commissioner 
specifically states " I am to request that the boxes containing the above mentioned 
records (ballot papers and other statutory records relating to the election from 
Kendrapara Parliamentary constituency ) be taken over by you , further sealed 
under your seal and kept in suitable custody e . g ., the Treasury at Cuttack , The 
boxes shall not be opened except under the authority of a competent court or a 
Tribunal." It is therefore clear that the Chief Elcctoral Officer was simply requir 
ed to take charge of the boxes said to contain the packets of valid and rejected 
hallot papers and he was not required to open the boxes and to check the con 
tents at that stage. There is the evidence of the District Magistrate that he also 
received a copy of the order Ex . E and that the Chief Electoral Officer came to 
Cuttack Treasury and put his own seal on the steel containers containing the 
ballot papers in the presence of the District Magistrate . There was , therefore , 
nothing irregular. . 

Another point argued as to the circumstance tending to show tampering is 
that G . V . L . N . Murty did not seal up the keys of the locks of the containers 
along with the locks, as was done by P . R . Chandra , but kept the keys of 5 con 
tainers in his own custody until the keys were called for from him by the District 
Magistrate on 15th September , 1962, P . R . Chandra stated that he sealed up the 


4 23 


so that the keys can be found conveniently when a box is required to be opened , 
G . V . L , N . Murty stated that he was not aware of any such practice and there is 
no rule requiring this to be done, and he kept the keys in his own custody ; and 
that when he was transferred out of Kendiüpata as Under Secretary to the 
Government of Orissa , Bhubaneswar, he forgot to make over the keys but he 
continued to keep them in his own custody unti the District Magistrate asked for 
them . There is no reason to presume that Murty kept the kcys in his own custody 
so that he inight open the buxes and do tampering . If he wanted to do tamnper 
ing by going into the Sub - treasury Strong Room at Kendrapara and opening the 
containers he could do so whether or not the keys had been sealed along with the 
locks. He, as well as P , R . Chandra, denied the suggestion put in cross - examina 
tion that at the suggestion of the Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister 
any tampering was done by them or with their conscnt. 

The circumstantial evidence sought to be built up by the counsel for the res 
pondent vanishes into -nothing in the face of the fact that the examination of the 
ballot papers revealed no tampering in favour of the Congress candidate . Refer 
ence has been made to the judgment of the Election Tribunal which tried the 
election case relating to Bonda Parliamentary constituency ( Election Petition 
No. 339 of 1962, Allahabad ) . In that case there was a finding of tampering with 
the connivance of the Deputy Commissioner and 2000 or more ballot papers were 
actually found tampered with . There was evidence of a Seal Expert to prove 
that tampering had been done. In the present case , not only is there no cvidence 
of tampering of any ballot paper but no suggestion was made to P . W . 7 who 
extracted and proved all the disputed ballot papers , that any ballot paper had been 
tampered with . The result of the scrutiny of the disputed ballot papers is rather 
slightly favourable to the respondent, clearly showing that no tampering in 
favour of the Congress candidate had been done after the counting . 

There was also an argument that the District Magistrate had no authority to 
open the containers for the purpose of inspection when the Election Commission 
had put them in charge of the Chief Electoral Officer , But Ex . D referred to 
above expressly provided that the containers might be opened at the instance of 
a Tribunal. The Tribunal passed an order, dated 21st August , 1962, containing 
self - contained instructions to the Officers conducting the inspection . Thercin 
Mr. Brij Mohan Lall ordered that the inspection shall take place at Cuttack in 
the office of the District Magistrate or any other place at Cuttack which the 
District Magistrate may earmark for the purpose , and that the District Magis 
trate shall either himself conduct the inspection or shall depute one or more but 
not more than 4 responsible public servants of a status not lower than that of a 
First Class Magistrate to conduct inspection . According to this order of the 
Tribunal therefore , it was not only permissible but incumbent on the District 
Magistrate to conduct the inspection and to open the containers as and when 
necessary . A copy of the order of the Tribunal was also sent to the Chief Elec 
toral Officer , and there is cvidence that the Chief Electoral Officer was present 
throughout the inspection beginning from the first day . Amar Singh was the 
Chief Electoral Officer at the time of inspection , and he deposed in the case as 
P . W . 28 and he stated that although he had been placed in custody of the ballot 
boxes by the Election Commission , it was with his express consent given in 
view of Tribunal s order, that the District Magistrate conducted the inspection , 
The objection of the respondent in fact appears to be absolutely groundless. 

In view of the circumstances discussed above I find that the used ballot papers 
were kept in safe custody cyen though the rules as to the scaling of packets of 
ballot papers of rach polling station were not observed ; that the ballot papers 
were not tampered with ; that it is possible to And out for which party a particular 
valid ballot paper was counted and therefore the ballot papers have evidentiary 
value . 

Issue No, 8 . - - This issue raises the question whether the Returning Officer and 
the Counting authorities complied with sub - rules ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) of Rule 56 . Rule 
56 ( 2 ) enumerates the circumstances in which the Returning Officer shall reject a 
ballot paper . The second proviso to the suh - rule gives a discretion to the count 
ing authorities, being as follows: 
" Provided further that a ballot paper shall not be rejected merely on the 

ground that the mark indicating the vote is indistinct or made more 
than once , 1f the intention that the vote shall be for a particular 

candidate clearly appears from the way the paper is marked ." 
Some further instructions appear in the Hand Book , Chapter VIII paragraph 15 
clause ( m ) . A ballot paper is not to be rejected mercly because more than one 
mark has been made in the column of one candidate or the mark is only partially 


4824 


within the column of one candidate and the rest of the mark is in the blank 
area or outside the ballot paper ; or the original mark is patently in the column 
of one candidate but an impression due to wrong folding appears in the column 
of another candidate , and so on . 

The petitioner and the respondent and their Agents and Advocates examined 
all the ballot papers cast at the time of voting in the constituencies for 37 or 38 
days in the presence of the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magis 
trate ; and out of approximately 2 , 10 ,000 ballot papers each side made a Jist of 
about 5000 ballot papers which in its opinion had been wrongly taken to be valid 
or wrongly rejected At the time of the hearing only about 7000 ballot papers 
were exhibited by being put to P . W . 7 at the first instance. But out of about 
3100 ballot papers of the P series, being challenged ballot papers on behalf of 
the pctitioner more than half were given up and the claim was maintained only 
as regards approximately 1300 . Similarly on behalf of the respondent although 
3844 ballot papers were exhibited by being put to P . W . 7 at the first instance , still 
when D . W . 1, Pradiptu Kishore Dus gave his evidence stating the claim of the 
respondent, namely the successful candidate, the claim in respect of approximate 
ly half the number was given up and the claim was maintained in respect of about 
1900 ballot papers. In other words, the two sides between them did not ulti 
mately challenge more than about 3200 ballot pupers out of 210 ,000 ballot papers . 
In the overwhelmning majority of cases the counting authorities rightly dealt 
with the ballot papers in accordance with the provisions of rule 56 ( 2 ) , and rule 
56 ( 4 ) , which only provides that the Returning Officer shall record on every ballot 
paper which he rejects the letter R and the grounds of rejection in abbreviated 
form either in his own hand or by means of rubber stamp. The Hand Book men 
tions the appreviations for rejection usually adopted , namely 

RM V ( rejected for 
multiple voting ) , R MBA ( rejected for marking in blank area ), RNM ( rejected 
for no marking ) , RM ( rejected for mutilation ) and son on 9336 ballot papers 
were rejected and abbreviated orders of rejection were stamped in the over 
whelming majority of these cases, omission being found only in respect of 20 or 
25 cases out of 9000 odd . 


In some few cases , clear errors were found both in respect of taking a ballot. 
paper as valid and counting it in favour of a particular party and also in the 
matter of rejection . But in respect of the majority of about 3200 cases to which 
the challenge was ultimately confined by the parties , the difference is merely due 
to a somewhat different standard being adopted. For instance , in the case of 


usually so faint that it cannot be seen at first sight but only in strong light or 
with the help of magnifying glass the mark comes to view . It is therefore not 
surprising that when the Counting Assistants were sorting and counting the bal 


a reasonable time, they did not see or ignored the faint markings. The rule and 
the instructions are that no ballot paper should be rejected merely because mark 
Ing is faint, and therefore where faint but clear marking of the balloting instru 
ment has appeared , naturally the ballot paper has been taken by the Tribunal to 
be valid . In respect of ballot papers accepted by the counting authorities to be 
valid but claimed by the parties as liable to rejection , cither on the ground of 
multiple voting or for some other ground , it appears that in most of the cases 
there is a clear seal or more than one clear seals in one urea and some faint 
marks -- sometimes not distinguishable as an arc or the seal but sometimes $ 0 
distinguishable , appear in the other area . The counting authorities , relying on 
the second proviso to rule 56 sub - rule ( 2 ) , which his been quoted above, appar 
ently concluded that the way in which the ballot paper was marked clearly indi 
cuted the intention to vote in favour of the party in whose arca the clenr full 
seal or seals appear , I cannot say that the counting authorities were necessarily 
wrong in doing so ; that is a view that certainly could reasonably be adopted . 
Both the parties , however , agrecd that if as against a clear full seal in one area 
there is even a faint small but distinguishable are of the seal in the other area , 
the ballot paper should be held to be bad for multiple yoting; this is a principle 
which Mr. D N . Roy also adopted and I have also adhered to that principle , for 
there is some support for that view in a decision of the Orissa High Court, namely , 
Rama Chandra Ram V . Raghunath Ray, Miscellaneous Appeal No. 39 of 1962 
decided on 21st August, 1962. 

A difficulty is caused by the marginal cases where a seal in the blank area 
just has or has not crossed the last line towards the Congress or the P . S . P . area . 
In quite a number of such cases the counting authorities rejected the ballot papers 
for marking in the blank area , taking the seal to be cntirely within the shaded 
area or the blank area in between the compartments of the two candidates. The 


or more of the seals have abutted into one of the areas slightly . In such cases 
where there is a clear abutting , however small, the vote has been taken as a valid 
vote for the party into whose area the seal has abutted , and the finding of the 
Counting authorities have been departed from . It may be mentioned that P . W . 7 , 
Surendra Mohanty propounded a theory of abutting by one line as a minimum 
abutting to be taken into consideration . He explained at page 103 of his deposi 
tion what he meant by abutting by a line. The blank area or the shaded area 
between the compartments of the two candidates in the present case shows 15 
parallcl black lines with 14 white or grey hands or spaces in between the lines. 
P . W . 7 stated that by a line he meant the brcadth of this space which lies between 
two adjoining black parallel lines printed in the shaded arca of a ballot paper , 
That, however , is an arbitrary standard , and in the Orissa High Court case cited 
just now , Ram Chandra Ram V . Raghunath Ray, their Lordships considered clear 
abutting into a particular area , however small, to indicate the intention of the 
voter to vote for the party into whose area the seal has ahutted . P . W . 7 appar 
ently wanted that marginal cases where it is doubtful whether or not the seal 
has abutted into any area should be left out of consideration , the decision of the 
counting authoritics not being upset in such marginal cases. But it has been 
considered niore appropriate to examine such marginal cases with the magnifying 
glass , and if the red or purple mark of the seal could be seen beyond the last line 
towards a particular area, the Stal has been considered as abutting into that area . 
Ahutting by a line in the sense that P . W . 7 meant would be somewhat arbitrary , 
because it would be difficult to guess whether the abutting has been by the 
particular breadth of space that P . W . 7 defined . 

Another disputed matter is where only a part of the arc of the seal or part 
of the seal has appeared in the blank area , whether the mark should be taken as 
it is or should be taken to be as it would appear if the circle of the seal were 
completed . P . W . 7 stated ( p . 921 of his deposition ) that in case of ballot papers 
in which an incoinplete circle or other mark of the official balloting instrument 
appears, the ballot paper should be judged not merely on the basis of the existing 
incomplete marking but on the basis of the marking as it would stand if com 
pleted . The learned Advocate for the respondent, however , strongly objected 
to this view , and argued that every ballot paper must be judged on the basis of 
the marks appearing on them and not on the basis of any imaginary marking. 
Rule 56 refers to " the mark appearing on the ballot paper ," In clauses ( 1 ) and 
( m ) of paragraph 15 of Chapter VIII, and indeed throughout the Chapter , 
wherever it has referred to the matter , the reference is to " the mark on the ballot 
paper" . By reading the rules and the relevant sub - paragraphs of paragraph 15 
of the Hand Book it appears to be quite clear that every ballot paper is to be 
decided on the basis of the existing marks on them and not by imagining how 
the ballot paper would look if some incomplete mark on it were ccmpleted . Fre 
quently , a voter has put a full clear seal on one area eg, on the bullocks which 
is the insignia of the Congress or the hut which is the insignia of the PSP, candi 
date , and there is an incomplete arv or an incomplete seal in the blank area . in 
many cases if the incomplete seal or the incomplete arc of a seal were completed , 
it might abut into the opposite arca to that where a clear full seal appears . It 
can never be said in such cases that the intention of the voter is doubtful, that it 
is not clearly in favour of the party in whose area the full clear seal appear3. 


Mr. Mitra apncaring on behalf of the petitioners referred to certain observa 
tions of R . K . Das J . in the decision of the Orissa High Court, Ram Chandra Ram 
V . Raghunath Ray , (Miscellaneous Appeal No. 33 of 1962 ) in support of his pro 
position that a ballot paper should be judged after envisaging how it would look 
if a partial seal or an arc were completed into a circle . The observation of R . K . 
Das J. is as follows: 
" Re -Ex . 17 — A part of the seal appears in the shaded area whereas the other 

part while projecting towards the area of the appellant obviously , for 
shortage of ink or wunt of sufficient pressure a clear impression of 
the scal does not appear in his area, though it is clear that the circlo 

of the seal if completed must have gone into the area of the appellant” . 
Again " in Ex. 17 - D — Two incomplete seals have been given partly in the 

shaded area and partly towards the area of the appellant and the 
circle of the seals which could not be completed for want of ink or 
pressure would , if completed , have gone sufficiently into the area of 

the appellant" . 
From the onservations Mr. Mitra has urged that where an incomplete seal has 
appeared in the shaded area it ought to be taken as it would stand if the circle 
of the seal were completed . But as the observations quoted above show , in each 
of these cases though a clear impression of the seal did not appear in the 


appellant s area , a faint impression appeared . It may be said that his Lordship 
rather relied on the faint impression appearing in the appellant s area than the 
imagined mark which would appear if the circle were completed . 

This is clear from the judgment of Narasimham C . J . In the same case 
Narasimham C . J . obscrved " In all these papers Exs. 17 series a portion of the 
seal las extended into the area of the appellant. It is true that due to lack of 
ink or want of pressure the art inside the area of the appellant is somewhat 
indistinct" . But his Lordship relied on the faint extension of the seal into the 
appellant s area and said nothing about the circle of the scal being imagined to 
be completed . 


In the circumstances it cannot be said in any case that it is a decision of the 
Orissa High Court that an incomplctc arc or seal in the blank area should be 
taken as it would stand it completed into a circle when judging the validity or 


instructions in the Hand Book , clearly leads one to the view that the markings 
are to be taken as they are and not as they would stand it completed . Where a 
voter has put a completed seal as well as a partial seal or an arc in the ballot paper 
he sees the picture of the marks made by him , and accepts it as expressing his 
Intention , and clearly his intention must be for the candidate in whose area 
the full seal has appeared and not to spoil his vote by double marking . In such 
cases the incomplete marking in the blank area may have been caused accidentally , 
as by the stamp slipping from the hand of the voter, or the voter might have 
experimentally made a partial mark in the blank area to see what kind of seal is 
made by the marking instrument, and then put the full seal with pressure in the 
area of the candidate for whom he was voting . 

I have, therefore, taken the incomplete scals as they stand and not as they 
would appear if the circle of the seal or the arc were completed ; and in this 
respect I have differed from the tentative opinion which has been recorded by 
Mr. D . N . Roy in respect of some of the ballot papers, 

Another case which is necessary to mention is the stub mark , Rule 39 of 
the Conduct of Election Rules lays down how a yoter has to vote . On receiving 
a ballot paper he has to proceed to one of the voting compartments and there 
he has to mark on the ballot paper with the instrument supplied for the purpose 
on or near the symbol of the candidate for whom he intends to vote ; then fold 
the ballot paper so as to conceal his vote and then insert the valid ballot paper into 
the ballot box and then come away. The mark is therefore to be made with the 
instrument supplied for the purpose, but the nature of the mark is not mentioned 
in the rule itself. In the Hand Book , Chapter VII rule 8 it is provided that the 
Returning Officer must ensure that the polling party of each polling station is 
supplied with the polling materials shown in Annexure VI. The list of polling 
materials mentioned in Annexure VI of the Hand Book includes inter alia the 
polling instrument which is described as Item 13 “ rubber stamp for marking 
ballot papers and six rubber stamps are to be supplied to each polling party 
i. e . to each polling station Annexure V , showing the form of the ballot paper 
and instructions to electors for marking ballot papers , says that the Polling 
Officer will explain to the voter how to record his vote and will give him an inked 
rubber stamp and that the voter inust mark with the rubber stamp on the symbol 
of the candidate for whom he wants to vote . It is also mentioned that the rubber 
stamp makes the impression of a cross within a circle , like x . The yoter is asked 
not to make any other mark or thumb impression at the risk of his vote not being 
counted . 

In view of the contents of the Hand Book referred to above, it has been urged 


the rubber stamp or at least a part of the arc of the circle made with the rubber 
stamp must appear on a ballot paper to make it a valid vote and that if any 
other mark appears, the ballot paper should be considered liable to rcjcction for 
" no marking I may point out however, that in spite of this contention of the 
petitioner, P . W . 7 in course of his deposition in several cascs claimed a ballot paper 
as validly marked when only a stub mark appears thereon . Thus in respect of 
Ex . R / 11 he says that there is a stub mark with a faint circle of the seal in the 
middle over the bullocks and the ballot paper is therefore valid . The circle 
of the seal inside, however, has to be imagined and is not really visible . In 
respect of Ex , R / 22 he did not even claim that the arc of the circle was faintly 
visible . He merely stated that there is a stub mark on the bullocks and no other 
mark on the ballot paper , and that it should be taken as validly counted . In 
respect of R / 144 there is mark of the periphery i. e ., there is a hollow square made 
by the stub , on the bullocks. This also P . W . 7 claimed as valid vote . It is true 


that in several instances he stated that stub miarks are not valid e. g , in respect of 
P / 1054 - A which , however, shows a stub inark in the P . S . P . compartment. Simi 
larly in respect of P / 1814 where again there is a stub mark in the P . S . P . area 
P . W .7 claimed that it was not a valid marking . 

Mr. D . N . Roy was inclined to accept that view , namely that a mere stub mauk 
where a part of the circle has not appcared is not a valid mark . But a stub naik 
is also made with the official polling instrument. The official instrument is the 
rubber stamp , but the rubber stamp consists of a thin piece of rubber fixed in a 
wooden handle which is a wooden rod with small square ends. G . V . L . N . 
Murty , one of the Assistant Returning Officer in charge of the Kendrapara election , 
stated that such marks might have been made by the reverse wooden end of the 
handle of the stamp, and that it is also possible that such marks were made wheti 
the piece of rubber had come off and the stamp was used in that damaged con 
dition . The counting staff in most cases accepted a stub mark in one area and 
no marking in the other area as a valid marking , although there was occasional 
departure from this principle. Thc Division Bench of the Punjab High Court 
in the case of Giani Kartar Singh V . Jagjit Singh took the view that it was not 
necessary to make a ballot paper validly marked that the circular scal with the 
cross inside or at least a portion of the arc of the circular seal must be visible , 
Grover J , with whom Falshaw C . J , Agreed observed as follows: 
" I am inclined to the view that the requirement contained in rule 39 ( 1 ) ( b ) 

regarding the use of the prescribed instrument by the voter is merely 
directory and not mandatory. If the mark is made with the ink of 
the pad provided for the use of the instrument, but not with the 
correct side of the instrument, the ballot paper should be taken to 

be correctly marked " , 
With respect I agree with this view and accordingly a square mark or a square 
hollow mark which is clearly made with the stub i.e . the end of the wooden 
het idle to which the thin piece of the rubber is attached or made with the opposite 
erid , as mentioned by G . V . L . N . Murty , has been taken as valid . But a mere 
linear mark which may or may not have been made by the official instrument has 
not been taken as valid . 

My finding in respect of the issue is that sub - rules ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) of Rule 56 
have generally been complied with ; but there have been some errors ; and where 
the error consists in omission to mark rejected ballot papers with the proper 
order like "RNM , R M V and so on , the confusion has been cleared up by the 
Tribunal checking all the ballot papers of the polling station as was done in 
respect of ballot papers R / 1003 to R / 1006 and P / 180 which are ballot papers of 
polling station No. 42 of Assembly constituency No. 107 , but which though 
rejected were not marked rejected . It was found on counting and verification 
against the result sheet that these 5 ballot papers had really been rejected and 
not counted for either party . The same procedure was adopted whenever there 
was doubt in respect of an unmarked but rejected ballot paper. These cases are , 
however , very few and they have not affected the result of election in any way . 

As regards the other kinds of error namely , wrongly rejecting the ballot paper 
or wrongly taking it to be valid or wrongly counting it in favour of a party , 
these errors are dealt with in the six remaining issues of this group . 

Before taking up these six issues , however , it is necesary to dispose of a 
preliminary point raised by the learned Advocates for the petitioner , namely 
that where in respect of a particular ballot paper Mr. D . N , Roy has recorded 
his finding the same should be accepted as the final decision of the Tribunal and 
should not be reviewed . The examination of P . W . 7 through whom the disputed 
ballot papers were exhibited took a very long time. The examination - in - chief started 
on 2nd July 1963 and for about 5 weeks i,e , until 5th August 1963 ballot papers 
of Exs . P / i to P /436 were extracted and marked as exhibits and the claim or 
opinion of P . W . 7 thereon was recorded . During this period very few opinions 
were recorded by Mr. Roy , practically only in one stray case e .g . P / 415 P . W . 7 
claimed that there are marks of the official scal rcsumbling scratches on the 
hullocks and Mr. Roy recorded the following : 
" NOTE — There does not appear to be any official seal or part of the seal 

over the bullocks" . 
This was merely recording the result of observation and it was not a Anding . 

After 5th August 1963 the procedure was substantially altered . It has been 
mentioned before that after the inspection before the District Magistrate was 
over and after the amendments of the election petition and the recrimination had 


been allowed, the petitioner , Banbehạri Mohanty prayed recount of the ballot 
papers without recording the oral evidence, as the inspection had shown that 
there had been errors made by counting authorities in respect of quite a number 
of ballot papers , Mr. Brij Mohan Lall dealt with this petition in his order dated 
22nd December 1962. Mr. Brij Mohan Lall observed that recount might be held 
before rccording oral evidence provided the circumstances of the case warranted 
the same, but in the present case there was vehement allegation by the respon 
dent of tampering with the ballot papers , and this question of fact could only be 
decided by taking oral evidence ; and therefore the prayer for a recount before 
taking oral evidence was rejected . Thereafter the petitioner apparently proceed 
ed on the basis that if he led oral evidence to show that in a substantial number 
of cases the counting authorities had made errors and that there was no indica 
tion on any ballot paper to show tampering a recount might be held without 
taking further evidence ; but thereafter the attention of the Tribunal was drawn 
to some observations of the Orissa High Court in case Ram Chandra Nam v . 
Raghunath Ray , Miscellaneous Appeal No . 39 of 1962, decided on 21st August 
1962 , where it was laid down that some one on bchulf of the petitioner must take 
the responsibility of stating on oath that specified ballot papers should have been 
either counted in his favour or deducted from the total votes polled for the ap 
pellant, give the exact number and give the grounds in support of his clajm , It 
was therefore held that a recount by the Tribunal after being satisfied that there 
were some errors would not be proper and that it was necessary for each party 
to put into evidence all the ballot papers which the parties claimed as wrongly 
counted or wrongly rejected or wrongly accepted , and thut only thereaficr the 
Tribunal would decide on the point. Thercafter the respondent proceried to put 
to P . W . 7 all the ballot papers claimed and challenged by the respondent and 
between 6th August 1963 and 27th November 1963 Exs. R / 1 to R / 3497 put to the 
witness on behalf of the respondent were proved , and thereafter between 28th 
November 1963 and 14th February 1964 the ballot papers claimed or challenged 
by the petitioners , namely , P / 437 to 3102 were proved and the ballot papers 
from Exs . P / 1 to P / 436 which had been proved before were also again put to 
the witness polling station -wise and therefore not in serial order , because in the 
beginning the ballot papers Exs. P / 1 to P / 436 had not been put to the witness · 
polling station -wise but rather at random . 

When the ballot papers of the R series were being put to the witness 


P series , in 350 or 400 cases . Even then in the beginning he merely recorded the 
result of his observations and not any Anding. Thus, in respect of R / 394 where 
the witness claimed that there was only smudge partly in the blank area and 
partly in thc P . S . P . area , Mr. Roy recorded a note as follows: 
" NOTE — This appears to the Tribunal to be an indistinct seal by the om 

cial instrument lying partly in the blank area and partly in the 

P . S . P . area " . 
Similarly , only the result of observation was noted in other cases like R / 635 , 
R /653, R / 807 and so on . Thus in respect of R / 635 he noted : 
" NOTE — The counsel for the respondent says that this was by the instru 

ment of balloting , which may be correct on account of the shape 

of it" . 
As the examination of P . W . 7 proceeded the opinion was more definitely ex 
pressed and ultimately it came to be recorded as finding but still in the form of 
a note . Thus, as regards R / 1345 Mr. Ray rerorded a note " To the Tribunal it 
seems to be the case of multiple voting and should therefore be rejected as 
AMV " , Here the conclusion to be drawn from the opinion is stated but stiil 
It was not a definite finding , Only from the middle of January , 1964 Mr. Roy 
recorded his notes more strongly . The record made on 11th January 1964 shows 
the transition from opinion to finding . Thus in respect of P . 2102 he merely re 
corded the note " Thc Tribunal on carcful examination does not agree with the 
objection of Mr. Kundu and is of the opinion that there is a mark of balloting 
with the official instrument, . . . . . It should therefore be rejected for RM . V ." In 
respect of the next ballot paper, namely P / 207 the note recorded is as follows: 
“ Mr. Kundu contends that the curvature of the arc is so wide that it is 

not by the official instrument. The Tribunal does not agree with 
this objection and finds that it is a case of multiple voting and this 

ballot paper should be rejected for R . M . V . " . 
But even though the word finds has been used from 11th January 1964 onwards 
in respect of a number of ballot papers of the P series and then a number of 
ballot papers of the R series, all this record is in the form of notes in the body 


of deposition of P . W . . 7 . There is no order recorded in the ordersheet or other 
wise purporting to make a final finding as to these ballot papers at the time. 
when P . W . 7 was being examined , and although the respondent s advocates were 
putting their suggestions, no witness for the respondent had been examined to 
state the claim of the respondent in respect of the clalmed or challenged ballot 
papers . This was done long after. In the circumstances , the notes recorded by 
Mr, D , N , Roy must be deemed to be tentative finding or in the earlier coses 
Just the result of observation , with or without an opinion . This question was 
in fact raised hefore ine as soon as I took over charge and joined , a prayer being 
made by the respondent for fresh examination of P . W . 7 so that the opinions 
recorded by Mr. D . N . Roy might be avoided . This prayer was rejected in view 
of Section 86 sub - section ( 4 ) of the Act , which provides that where for any 
reason a vacancy occurs in the office of the Member of Tribunal, the Election 
Commissioner shall appoint a person to fill the vacancy , and upon his joining the 
Tribunal the trial of the petition shall be continued as if he had been on the 
Tribunal from the beginning . But while refusing the prayer of the respondent 
for fresh examination of P . W . 7 I stated to the parties that the notes recorded by 
Mr. D . N . Roy would be given due consideration but would not be regarded as 
Anal Andings but only as tentative Andings open to review . In my order dated 
16th September 1964, while rejecting the prayer of the respondent for giving 
the respondent s witness , Pradipta Kishore Das, an opportunity for stating his 
opinion regarding the P series ballot papers , it was observed that the question 
whether or not a ballot paper was properly rejected or improperly counted would 
not depend on an admission which a party s witness may make in Court but 
would ultimately be decided by the Tribunal after examination of the ballot 
papers in the light of the principles evolved after discussion with the learned 
Advocates of the two sides i.e . at the time of hearing the final arguments . Before 
this has been done, any opinion or a finding as regards a ballot paper must be 
taken to be tentative and open to review . I may state here that in course of ex 
amination of PW , 1, I recorded my impression of ballot papers in a separate note 
book ; but the impression then recorded was not final but open to further consi 
deration after hearing the arguments of the two sides and further examination 
of the ballot papers , if necessary . Similarly , though Mr. D . N . Roy recorded his 
impressions in the form of notes in the body of the deposition , I do not regard 
them as Anal Andings, and it does not appear to me that Mr. Roy intended them 
to be his final decisions; because in his order dated 2nd April 1984 he observed 
that further limited cross - examination of P . W . 7 would be allowed . This would 
be meaningless if in respect of many of the ballot papers a final decision had 
already been made . 


Accordingly , while considering with respect the opinion recorded by Mr. Roy . 
I have considered myself free to come to a different conclusion . Ultimately it 
does not affect the result of the trial because in some cases I have accepted a 
ballot paper as valid where Mr. Roy s impression recorded is that it was invalid 
and in other cases I have rejected a ballot paper as invalid though Mr. Roy has 
recorded his impression that it was valid . 

Issue No. 5 . — Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 were wrongly 
rejected or refused ? 

Banbehari Mohanty , the petitioner of this Election case along with his amend 
ment petition supplied a list of ballot papers which according to him were valid 
votes for respondent No . 2 Surendra Mohanty , but were wrongly rejected . 
Surendra Mohanty deposed as P . W . 7 and many ballot papers from the list were 
put to him and exhibited . The exhibited hallot papers which were rejected and 
which were originally claimed as valid votes for Surendra Mohanty are listed 
below : 


Constituency 

No . 


104 


Ex . P /437 to P / 528 

Also P /263, P /314 , P /282 , P /371, P /372 , P /373 . P /265 . 
P /313 , P /87 , P /88 , P /264 , P / 315 , P /316 , P /376 , 
P /375 , P /337 , P /266 , P /368 , P7369 , P / 370 , P /272 , 
P / 312 , P311 , P /261, P /260 , P /293 


I18 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Constituency 

No. 


Exhibit No. 


105 


Ex . P /800 to P /921 
Also P /394 , P /395 , P /396 , P /397, P /414 , P /386 , 
P /387 , R /429 , R / 434 , P7317 , R1475, P379, P /380 , 
P /381 , P / 382 ( R480 ), 1 /383 ( = R /481), R /485 , 
R /496 , R1499 , P /277 , R /507 , P / 318 ( = R /511), P /319 
(ER /512 ) P / 281, P /320 , P /279 , P / 322 ( FR / 532 ) , 
P /321, R /526 , R /550 , P /276 , P /393 , P /282 , 


156 


107 


Ex. P / 1316 to P / 1406 , P / 1501 
Also P7284, P /286 , R /958 , P / 331, P /287 , P / 288 , 
R /965 , R /966 , P /285 , P . 408 , R /972 , P /405 , P /406 , 
P /323 , R / 978 , P / 324 , P /325 , P /326 , P /327 P /328 , 
P /403 , P /404 , R /990 , R71012 , R / 1007 , P /409 , 
R / 1018 , P / 330 , P /407, R / 1028, P / 329 , R / 1044 , 
R / 1045 , Ř / 1047 , P /34 ( = P /283) , P / 36 , P /35 , 
R / 1565 , R / 1065, R / 1066 , R / 1067, R / 1072 ; 


134 


IOS 


Ex. P /1712 to P / 1175 

Also R /1652, R / 1653, P /267. P /268 , P /269, P /411, 
R /1686 , Ř / 1695, P / 410 , P /413 , R / 1735 , P /416 , 
P /417, P /385, P413 , P /272 , P /412, P /332, P /270 , 
P /271, P /323 , P /334 , R / 1757 


109 


Ex . P /2213 to P /2257 (excluding P /2217, found 

already counted for S . Mohanty ) 
Also P /422 , P /423 , P /293 , P /421 , R /2269 , R / 2270 , 
R /2264, P /418 , R /2274 , R / 2278 , P /290 , R /2297, 
R /2305 , P /420 , P /291 , R /2318 , P /289, P / 292 


ΙΟ 


Ex . P / 2414 to P / 2484 
Also R /2502, P /331, R /2515 , P /300 , R /2516 , R /2519, 
P /297, R / 2527, P /364 , P / 346 , 1 /347 , P /349 , R /2538 , 
R /2541, R /2543 , P / 362 ,P296 , P / 298 , P / 299 , P /294 , 
R / 2560 , R /2558 , R /2565 , P /361 , P /363, P /295, P /359 , 
P /360 , R /2597. P /365, P /366 , P /367 , P /348 

( - R /2583) 
Ex . P /2668 to P / 2766 

Algo R /2935, R /2962 , P /425, P /309, 1 /310 , P /358 , 
P / 308 , P1352 , P /353 , R /2997, P1356 , P /3573 
P /306 , R /3014 , R73036 , P /307, P /3.40 , R /3053 , 
R / 3058 P / 354, P / 355, P / 341, P / 342, R / 3092 , R / 3096 , 

R /3099, P /350 , P /351, P / 336 , P / 343, R /3121 
Wrongly listed in Col. 3 — R / 1003 


104 


TI2 


130 


792 


As the above list shows, there are 791 exhibited ballot papers of the list, and 
one ballot paper of this group wrongly listed in Col. 3 (of votes liable to rejec 


this group . This has raised the total number of exhibited ballot papers of this 
group to 792 . P . W . 7 in course of his deposition gave up his claim to 369 ballot 
papers of this group conceding that they were rightly rejected . This leaves 423 
ballot papers of this group to which he laid his claim in course of his deposition , 
These 423 ballot papers have been dealt with in Appendix I ( a ). It will be found 
that the claim is accepted in 295 cases and rejected in 128 cases . Thus I And 
that 295 valid votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 were wrongly rejected . 

Issue No. 6 — Whether invalid votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were 
wrongly taken into account ? 


SEC . 8 (ll )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4831 


The ballot papers of this group , listed in Col. 3 of the revised list of the An 
nexure of Banbehari Mohanty , were put to P . W . 7 Surendra Mohanty in course 
of his deposition , 2258 ballot papers of the group were put to him and exhibited , 
They are listed below : 


Constitucncy 

No, 


P1529 
in this 


104 


262 


P /1343 PP140 
p1119 


35 


- 


Exhibit No. 
Ex. P /529 to P /791 (excluding P /677, wrongly 

included in this list ) 
Also P / 120 , P / 121, P /134 , P /136 , P /135, P /130 , 
P / 127 , P /117 , P / 131 , P /39 . P /40 , P /86 , P / 122 , 
P / 116 , P / 124 , P / 128 , P / 129 , P /119 , P / 114 , 
P /41, P .12 , P / 43 , P / 44 , P / 132 , P /133, P /125 , 
P / 126 , P / 123 , P / 118 , P /85 , P / 37 , P /38 , P /84 , 

P /45, P / 115 , 
Ex. P /922 tv P / 1307 , (including P / 1054A , and 

excluding P / 1270 – P / 1274 , taken over to the 
next list ) 
Also P / 144 , P /49, P /50, Pisi, P152 , P /53, P / 166 , 
P / 152 , P / 153 , P /154 , P / 155 , P /156 , P / 157. P /90 , 
P / 145 , P / 138 , P / 139 , P /140, P / 164, P / 165 , P / 150 , 
P /46 , P / 149 , 8 /151 , P /428 , P /158 , 1 /189 , P /143 , 
P /92 , P /91 , P /47 , P /48 , P / 147. P / 148 , P / 146 , P / 141 , 
P / 142 , P / 159, P / 160 , P /161, P /162 , P /163 , R /928 , 
R /927 


297 


105 


382 


426 


107 


299 


33 - 


Ex. P / 1407 to P / 1708 (excludiny P / 1447 , P / 1501 , 
wr gly included in this list and P / 1475 , taken over 

to the next list ) 
Also P / 169, P / 179 , P / 167, P / 168 , P1186 , P /187 , 
P /174 , P /170 , P7172 , P / 181, P1182 , P /94 , P /95 , 
P / 171, P /97, P /175 , P /177 , P /178 , P /188 , P /99, P / 100 , 
P /93 , P / 173. P / 176 , P /96 , P / 185 , P / 30 , P / 31 , 

P / 32 , P / 33, P / 183 , P / 184 , P / 98 
Ex . P / 1776 to P / 2201 . 
Also P /201, P / 197 , P /209, P / 113, P /204 , P /206,P / 102 , 
P /193 , P /71 , P /67 , P /70 , P769, P168 , P /72, P /III, 
P /112 , P / 109 , P / 110 , P /210 , P /194 , P /195, P /101, 
P / 199 , P /196 , P /102 , P /103 , P /104 , P / 105 , P /202 , 
P / 203 , P /211, P /107 , P / 108 , P / 109 , P /73. P /74 . 
P /75 ; P /76 , P / 77 , P /78 , P /79, P /81 , P /82 , P /83 
P /207 , P /208 , P /212, P / 198 , P /205, " P /2co , P / ISO , 
P / 191 


332 


T08 


426 


52 


478 


109 


149 


Ex. P /2258 to P /2406 

Also P/222 , P /435 , P /221, P/63;_ P/217, P /226 , 
P /215 , P /216 , P /223, P /213 , P /227 , P /250 , 
P /667 P /219, P /228 , P229 , P218, P /214 , P /220 , 
P /65, P /64, P /231, P / 232 , P /224 , P /225 . . 


174 


IIO 


178 


16 


194 


II2 


Ex. P/2,485 to 2./2661242, P /239, P/238 , P159 , 

P /235 , 7 /236 , P / 243, " P /244, P /237, P/234 , 

P /60, P /61 , P /62 , P /233 . . . . 
Ex . P /2767 to P / 1097 
Also P /259, R /3181, R /3180 , R /3477 , R / 3476 , 

P /54 , P /248 , P / 247 , P /257 , P /251, P /252 , 
P /250 , Pls5 , P /56 , P7235 , P /256 , P /258 , 
P !427 , P /253, P /254, P /426 , P / 245, P /57 , 
P /248 , P /249, P /58 


331 


26 


357 
2258 


TOTAL 


4832 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART II 


Out of these 2258 ballot papers P . W . 7 in course of his deposition gave up his 
challenge to 1488 ballot papers admitting that they had been rightly counted for 
Surendranath Dwivedy . This leaves 770 ballot papers which according to Suren 
dra Mohanty should have been rejected but were taken as valid votes for 
Dwivedy . These 770 cases are dealt with in Appendix I (b ). It will be found 
that the challenge is accepted in 379 cases but rejected in 391 cases , the latter 
being found to have been rightly counted in favour of Surendranath Dwivedy . 
Accordingly it is found that 379 Invalid votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 
were wrongly taken into account. 


I should add that Banbehari Mohanty , petitioner of this case who deposed as 
P . W , 13 , said that he would like to claim or challenge all the ballot papers exhi 
bited and would not like to give up his claim even to those ballot papers which 
P . W . 7, Surendra Mohanty himself had not claimed . But Banbehari Mohanty is 
only nominally an independent petitioner, Practically he Aled his election peti 
tion containing fresh grounds in the interest of Surendra Mohanty for whom he 


papers to which the claim was given up by P . W . 7 and in my opinion he rightly 
gave up his claim to them . There may be a marginal case or two where the 
claim if made might possibly be allowed , but the same remark applies also to 
the ballot papers of Ex , R series to which the claim was given up by D . W 1 , 
Pradipta Kishore Das on behalf of Surendranath Dwivedy. The claim of Ban 
behari Mohanty, therefore, need not be taken seriously . 

Issue No. 12 — Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 have heen 
counted as votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 ? 

The ballot papers of this group which according to Banbehart Mohanty are 
valid votes for Surendra Mohanty but were actually counted as valid votes for 
Surendranath Dwivedy are listed in Col. 4 of his revised annexure. 77 of these 
ballot papers were put to P . W . 7 in course of his deposition and exhibited . 9 
more have been brought to this group from the previous group originally listed 
in Col. 3 because in course of deposition P . W . 7 claimed that these votes are 
valid votes for himself and not merely that they are liable to be rejected . All 
these 86 ballot papers are dealt with in Appendix I ( C ) and it is not necessary 
therefore to give a list here. It is found that 74 ballot papers which are valid 
votes for Surendra Mohanty were wrongly counted as valid votes for Surendra 
nath Dwivedy ; 4 are found rightly counted for Surendranath Dwivedy and 6 are 
found counted for Surendranath Dwivedy but liable to rejection . These are 
to be added . to the 379 found liable to rejection but wrongly counted in favour of 
Surendranath Dwivedy in the previous issue, 2 more of this list are found to 
have been wrongly included . Thus I find that 74 votes cast in fovour of respon 
dent No. 2 were erroneously counted as votes for respondent No. 1. 

Additional Issue No. 1 — Whether valid votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 
were wrongly rejected : 

The respondent, Surendranath Dwivedy gave in Col. 2 of his annexure the 
list of ballot papers which were rejected but which according to him were valid 
votes for himself . Many of these ballot papers were put to P . W . 7 when he was in 
the witness box in course of his cross -examination . On behalf of the respondent 
the claim to the exhibited ballot papers of this list was set out by D . W . 1 , P . K . 
Das in course of his examination - in - chief. The exhibited ballot papers of this 
list are as follows: 


Constituency 

No. 


Exhibit No. 


138 


104 
IOS 


182 


149 


107 
108 


IR 


R /252 to R /389 

R /390 to R7573 excluding R/ 471 ,R562,(wrongly included in 
this list ) 
R /929 to R / 1077 
R / 1636 to R / 1757 
Also P / 416 , 1 /414 , P /273 , P /274 , P /304 , P / 305 
R /2242 to R / 2332 
R / 2488 to R /2585 
R / 2929 to R /3122 
R / 3591 

TOTAL 


W 


109 


194 


IIO 
II2 
I07 


981 


- - - 


SEC . $(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964/ PAUSA 5, 1886 


4833 


It will be seen that there are 981 exhibited ballot papers of this list. D . W . 1 in 
course of his deposition gave up his claim to 227 ballot papers of this list but 
claimed the remaining 754 as valid votes for Surendranath Dwivedy . These 754 
ballot papers are dealt with in Appendix II ( a ) . The claim is accepted in 394 
cases and rejected in 360 cases . Accordingly I find that 394 valid votes in favour 
of respondent No . 1 were wrongly rejected . 
Additional Issue No. 2. — Whether invalld votes cast in favour of respondent No. 2 

were wrongly taken into account ? 

In Col. 3 of his Annexure the respondent, Surendranath Dwivedy listed the 
ballot papers which according to him were counted for Surendra Mohanty but 
are liable to be rejected . These were also put to P . W . 7 in course of his cross 
examination and exhibited and the case of the respondent was set out by D . W . 1 
when he was examined . The exhibited ballot papers of this group are as follows: 


Constituency 

No. 


Exhibit Nos. 


104 


245 
274 


105 


T07 


541 


10:8 


R /7 to R /251 
R /574 to R / 845, R /871 , 
R / 1078 to R / 1624 

excluding R / 1207, R / 1394 , R / 1395, R / 1397 , ( included in the 
next group ), R / 1517 , R / 1565 (from rejected hundlc 

wrongly included ) 
R / 1758 tu R /2229 
excluding R / 2067 , R /2165 , R / 2166 (included in the next 

group . 
R /2333 to R /2477 . . . . . . . . 
R / 2586 to R /2920 

excluding R /2708 (included in the next group ) 
R /3123 tỷ R /3467, R /3472 

excluding R /3180 , R / 3181 ( illustrative only ) 
R / 3498 to R /3590 
R /3592 to R / 3727 
R /3728 to R /3844 


469 
145 


109 
IIO 


334 


II2 


344 


105 
107 


93 


108 


136 
117 


2698 


Thus it will appear that 2698 ballot papers of this list were exhibited . Out 
of these D . W . 1 in course of his examination gave up his challenge to 1645 ballot 
papers but claimed that the remaining 1053 ballot papers counted for Surendra 
Mohanty are liable to rejection . These 1053 ballot papers are dealt with in 
Appendix II ( b ) . The challenge is accepted as valid in 452 cases but rejected in 
601 cases . It is therefore found that 452 invalid votes cast in favour of respond 
ent No . 2 were wrongly taken into account. 
Additional Issue No. 3 .-- -Whether votes cast in favour of respondent No. 1 were 

counted as votes for respondent No. 27 

The respondent, Surendranath Dwivedly in Col, 4 of his annexure gave a list ot 
votes which according to him were valld votes for himself but were wrongly counted 
for Surendra Mohanty . Thęsc were also put to P . W . 7 in course of his cross 
examination and the claim of the respondent was set out by D . W . 1 when he was 
examined . There are 147 ballot papers of this group and 8 more have been added 
by taking them from the previous list i.e . from the list of ballot papers mentioned 
in Col. 3 , because in the course of his deposition D . W . 1 claimed that these ballot 
papers were actually valid votes for Dwivedy and not merely that they were liable 
to rejection , 

Out of these 155 ballot papers there is no dispute about 49 appertaining to pull 
ing station No. 70 of Assembly Constituency No . 105 Salepur. When the ballot 
papers of this constituency were inspected before the District Magistrate , Ban 
betari Mohanty flled an objection petition stating that many Congress votes were 
Inişsing from the bundle . Accordingly when Surendra Mohanty was being 
examined in Court, Mr. D . N . Roy counted all the ballot papers of polling station 
No, 70 of Salepur Constituency and checked them against the result sheet in 
Form 20 . It was found that in one sub -bundle containing 50 ballot papers kept 
with the Congress votes 49 were valid votes for Surendranath Dwivedy but the 


4834 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART 11 – 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


top ballot paper marked R / 875 was a valid vote for the Congress candidate , 
Mohanty . The 49 ballot papers which are valid votes for Dwivedy are marked 
AS R / 878 to R / 924 . The total number of ballot papers found in the bundle was 
found to tally with the total number mentioned in the result sheet , but the 
number of votes obtained by each candidate was different, by the No. mis -bundled 
and mis - counted . Accordingly it was clear that 49 votes for Surendranath Dwivedy 
had been mis -bundled and mis - counted and not that any ballot paper which was 
a valid vote for the Congress candidate was missing from the bundle ." This 
position being accepted by both parties after the check of all the ballot papers 
of the polling station . These 49 have not been discussed by me in Appendix II ( C ) 
where the remaining 106 ballot papers are dealt with . Out of these 106 ballot 
papers 76 are found valid votes for Surendranath Dwivedy but wrongly counted 
for Surendra Mohanty . 23 ure found to have been already counted for Surendra 
nath Dwiverly but mis -placed in the bundlo so as to give initially a wrong 
impression which had to be corrected by counting and checking all the ballot 
papers of the relevant polling station 4 are found rightly counted for Surendra 
Mohanty and 3 are found liable to rejection . These 3 are to be added to the 
452 cases in the last Issue where the challenge to votes counted for Surendra 
Mohanty as liable to rejection has been accepted . Thus altogether , 125 valid votes 
for Dwivedy were wrongly counted for Mohanty , 

Issues as to corrupt practices arising out of Recrimination . 
Issue No. 29 , - -Whether respondent No . 2 or his agents or any other person 
with his consent committed the various acts of bribery alleged in paras 8 ( c ) to 
8 ( v ) of the Recrimination ? 

No evidence has been adduced regarding the corrupt practices montlonecl in 
sub - paragraphs ( c ), (i) , (1 ) , (p ) , (q ), ( r ) and (s ) of paragraph 8. 

Sub - para ( d ) . - In Sub - para ( d ) the respondent made the allegation that 
Surendra Mohanty told the electors of Nemra that the State Ministry was in his 
hands and that he would secure recognition from the Government for the local 
Binapani School which was not getting recognition for some time, provided the local 
people would support him at the electlon , and that on the local people promising 
to support him if he could secure recognition for the School, Surendra Mohanty 
obtained recognition which was obtained on 20th February 1962 i.e . only a day 
or two before polling in that area . On this point the respondent examineri 4 
witnesses , namely , DW , 33 , 34 , 42 and 45 . D . W , 33 Ballav Chandra Jena belongs 
to Thauri which adjoins Nenira village. He said that 12 or 13 days before the 
date of polling in the last Parliamentary election Surendra Mohanty came to 
Nemra and held a meeting near Binapani M . E . School, that the witness attended 
the meeting ; that Surendra Babu said that he was prepared to do something to 
meet the needs and necessities of the village people ; that some villagers said that 
the Srhool was not getting recognition as a High School, and Surendra Babu said 
that he would do his best to obtain recognition for the School as a High School, 
and the people present said that if he would do that then they would certainly 
vote for him . The witness also said that a few days later, Lokanath Misra and 
Prahlad Malik came to Nemra and held a meeting and told the people that 
Surendra Mohanty was carrying out his promise to obtain recognition for the 
School as a High School and that the local people should vote for him . The 
witness also said that a few days thereafter he saw a procession being held by 
the students and teachers of Binapani School and he learnt that the recognition 
of the School as a High School had been obtained and this was a day or two 
before the polling. 

The evidence of D . W . 34 , Narahari Naik is that he did not attend any meeting 
addressed by Surendra Mohanty but he attended the meeting which was held 
hy Lokanath Misra and Prahlad Malik and that Lokanath Misra stated that 
Surendra Bahu was working to carry out his promise and that the people should 
therefore vote for him . This witness also said that on the day previous to the 
date of polling he saw the School boys and teachers of Binapani School going 
out in a procession and he learnt that the School had obtained recognition . He 
said in cross- cxamination that for 3 or 4 years before that, the Secretary and 
other people interested had been going up to Cuttack for obtaining recognition 
for the School but they had not been successful, 

DW . 42 , Pitambar Behera and D . W . 45 , Prahalad Dutta are assistents attached 
respectively to the office of the Inspector of Schools , Cuttack and D . P . I, Cuttack .. 
Their evidence merely shows that provisional recognition for Binapani M , E . 
School as a High School was ordered on 16th February 1962 and a Memo con 
taining that order dated 20th February was communicated to the School 


Secretary. Their evidence does not show either that Surendra Mohanty took any 
step in the matter or that as suggested by the respondent, the then Chief Minister, 
Bijoyananda Patnalk gave any directive for granting speedy recognition to the 
School as a High School. On the other hand, the evidence of D . W . 45 shows that 
in August, 1961, long before the Parliamentary election at Kendrspara , the 
Secretary of the School addressed petitions to the D . P . 1, and to the Education 
Minister of Orissa , and that the Education Minister then asked for a report and 
thereafter in quc course a provisional recognition was granted to the first Iligh 
School class , namely , Class VIII. Both these witnesses said that they were not 
aware of any directive by the then Chief Minister in that connection . They alşo 
did not mention that Surendra Mohanty did anything. D . W . 33 and D . W . 34 are 
not connected with the Managing Committee of the School and neither do they 
belong to Nemra village . They appear to be chance witnesses and in the circum 
stances it is not possible to accept their evidence about a meeting held near the 
Binapanl School compound by Surendra Mohanty , or of the local people having 
promised to vote for him if Surendra Mohanty succeeded in obtaining recognition . 
The more fact that the recognition was obtained at that time is not sufficient, 
for the evidence of the Assistants of the Inspectorate and the Directorate of Public 
Instruction shows that the recognition was granted in due course of business. 
The petitioner examined one witness , namely , P . W . 23 , Maheshwar Rout, who 
is a member of the Managing Committee of Binapani High School, and he said 
that Surendra Mohanty never held any meeting near the School compound at 
Nemra 12 or 15 days before the polling or on any other day and that neither did 
he promisc anything about obtaining recognition of the School, and that recogni 
tion was obtained in due course of business . Accordingly the allegation must be 
found to be not proved . 


Sub - parugruph ( e ). - . In sub -paragraph (e ) of paragraph 8 , the respondent 
alleged that Surendra Mohanty had promised to obtain departmental recognition 
for Rajgarh M . E . School in case they would help him in the election and that 
recognition of Rajgarh M . E . School was also obtained on 20th February 1962, 
a day before the polling . The only evidence adduced in this connection by the 
respondent is a statement by D . W . 33 , Ballav Chandra Jena that on the day before 
the polling he also saw a procession by the students and teachers of Rajgarh 
M . E . School celebrating their obtaining recognition for the M . E . School, P . W . 23, 
Maheswar Rout , said that he was himself the Secretary of the Rajgarh M . E . 
School and that it is not a fact that Surendra Mohanty did anything in connection 
with the obtaining of recognition for the School. He also denied that any 
celebration was held when thc recognition of the School was obtained . He stated 
that he himself went to Cuttack and obtained the recognition order for Rajgarh 
M , E . School as the Secretary of the School. Thus, it must be held that this 
allegation has not been proved . 


Sub - paragraph ( f ) . - - In this sub - paragraph respondent alleged that on 8th 
February 1962 at a meeting held at Adhanga Malikeswarpur, Surendra Mohanty 
and Purusottam Naik asked the local people to vote for Surendra Mohanty , and 


the people to vote for him and that Surendra Mohanty further stated that he was 
ready to supply a petromax light, a canvass ground sheet ( Satranji ) and a radio 
set for the library if the people would vote solidly for him . Two witnesses were 
examined by the respondent to prove this allegation , namely , D . W , 26 and 27 . 


On behalf of the petitioner has been urged that the particulars in sub -para 
graph ( 1 ) are not sufficient because it is not mentioned there to whom the money 
is supposed to have been paid . The details should certainly have been mentioned 
in sub - paragraph ( f ). D . W , 26 , Khetrabasi Rout of Adhanga Mallkeswarpur said 
that about 15 days before the polling , Surendra Mohanty and Purusottam Naik 
came to the village by jeep along with Raghunath Swain of the village , and that 
at a meeting which was attended by 200 people Surendra Mohanty said that he 
would like to help the villagers and meet their wants , and Purusottam Naik then 
said that moncy would be given for the improvement of the village library it 
people would vote for Surendra Mohanty , and then Surendra Mohanty asked 
Purusottam Naik to pay money for the library and Purusottam Nalk then handed 
over Rs. 100 / - to Raghunath Swain for the improvement of the village llbrary . 
D . W . 27, Golakmani Samal, also belonging to the same village , described the 
meeting as having taken place 7 or 8 days before the polling . He mentioned about 
the promise by Puruşottam Naik to give a petromax light , a radio and a canvass 
ground sheet, which were not mentioned by D . W . 26 . Neither D . W . 26 nor D . W . 27 
have any connection with the ilbrary . D . W , 26 admitted that he had never been 
to the library . D . W , 27 admitted that he did not know who was the Secretary 


of the Library and who is the present Secretary . D . W . 26 stated that Purusottam 
Naik himself suggested that money should be given to the library and that none 
of the villagers assembled at the meeting suggested this . But D . W . 27 said that 
some young men led by Raghunath Swain aged 28 suggested that help should be 
given to the village library . The evidence of the two witnesses thus contain . 
important discrepancies . The petitioner examined Raghunath Swain himself as , 
P . W . 17 . Ho said that he was the President of the Library of the village and that 
one Nrusingha Charan Rout was the Secretary . He denied that Surendra 
Mohanty held any meeting in the library or in the village and that any payment 
was made for the library by Surendra Mohanty or by Purusottam Naik He 
further stated that D . W , 27 , Golak Chandra Samal had worked as a Polling Agent 
for Surendranath Dwivedy, the P . S . P . candidate , at the time of general election . 
Golakmani Samal had himself made some peculiar statements in the course of 
his deposition , saying that when money was being offered by Purusottam Naik , 
he asked Raghunath Swain not to take the money as it was illegal. This evidence : 
can hardly , be believed , and P . W . 17, Raghunath Swain denied that there was any 
occasion for Golakmani Samal to ask him not to take the money for the library . 
It was suggested to Raghunath Swain that he had in fact received Rs. 100 / - from , 
Purusottam Naik for the village library and that he had misappropriated most 
of that money and not utilised it for the library and therefore the young men of 
the village had started a rival library . This suggestion was denied by the witness , 
and it is a new case because no such suggestion was made either by D . W . 26 or 
by D . W . 27 . 


The petitioner examined two other witnesses in this connection , namely , P . W . 
32, Bikal Charan Naik and P . W , 33 , Haribandhu Bhadra , both belonging to the 
same village. They also denied that any meeting was held in the library or in 
the village by Surendra Mohanty and Purusottam Nalk or that any money was. 
paid by them for the library . 


Mr. Misra on behalf of the respondent has urged in connection with this 
allegation and indeed in connection with all the other allegations, that an adverse 
inference ought to be made against the petitioner because neither the petitioner 
Surendra Mohanty nor Purusottam Naik deposed in the case to deny the allega 
tions made in the recrimination , though both of them had deposed in connection 
with the main case . It is true that If Surendra Mohanty and Purusottam Naik 
had deposed in connection with the recrimination and denied the allegations it 
would have been better ; but the allegations of corrupt practice have to be proved 
beyond reasonable doubt like a charge in a criminal case , and the persons against 
whom the allegations are made, are in the position of an accused and the accused 
may avall of his right not to speak and leave it to the prosecution to establish 
the charge against him , The Court has to see whether the charge has been proved 
beyond reasonable doubt and it must be said that the charge of paying Rs. 100 / 
as gratification to Adhanga Mallkeswarpur Library is not proved . 


Sub -paragraph ( ). - - In this sub -paragraph it is alleged that on 19th February 
1962 at Garadpur a meeting was held by Bijoyananda Patnaik and Surendra 
Mohanty , and both of them promised that they would look to the grievances of 
the people of the locality if they voted for Surendra Mohanty , and then Bijoya 
nanda Patnaik gave Rs. 300 / - to one Parbati Devi and asked her to induce the 
women of the locality to vote for Surendra Mohanty ; and that he also paid a 
sum of Rs. 100 / - to Arjun Tihadl and asked him to induce the villagers to vote 
for Surendra Mohanty . 


In connection with this allegation we have the evidence of DW . 3 , 32 and 40 
and against them the evidence of P .Ws, 34 and 35 . D . W . 3 , Bhagabat Prasad 
Mohanty who is a practising lawyer of Kendrapara was canvassing for Surendra 
nath Dwivedy at the time of election , and he also held a meeting at Garadpur on 
19th February 1962 . He said that a meeting was held by Bijoyananda Patnaik . 
the Chief Minister and Surendra Mohanty near the Hat of the market place of 
Garadpur, where a platform had been arranged for the meeting. He himself did 
not attend the meeting , but he said that after the meeting he heard that Biju 
Babu had paid Rs. 300 / - to Parbati Devi and Rs. 100 / - to Arjun Tihadi, but he 
could not say from whom he got this information . This evidence therefore is 
not substantive evidence , D . W . 32 , Narendranath Nalk of Kalabuda said that he 
attended the meeting in connection with the election which was held in the com 
pound of Garadpur B . P , School which is near the market place and that Biju 
Babu did not como at the time Axed although people were waiting at the place 
of meeting where & platform had been erected , and so the witness went to the 
nearby mango grove where he found another meeting going on and he heard 


that Biju Babu ultimately arrived at about 7 or 7 - 30 P . M . and that he addressed 
the meeting , saying that the area was a flood affected area and he would take 
necessary steps for relief and improvement, and he asked the people to vote for 
Surendra Mohanty and that Surendra Mohanty also addressed the meeting in 
the same strain ; that after the meeting was over two Congress workers brought 
a woman before Biju Babu and said that at the time of air - dropping of rice after 
the floods of 1961 one bag of rice fell on her and the woman was a widow , and 
that Biju Babu asked her whether she could collect the women voters and take 
them to vote for the Congress candidate and Parbati Devi said that she could 
do that work and then Biju Babu paid her Rs. 300 / - in hundred rupee notes , The 
witness added that another person who was a Brahmin was brought before Biju 
Babu and Biju Babu paid him Rs. 100 / - asking him to call people to the polling 
station and induce them to vote for the Congress candidate . The witness could 
not give the name of the Brahmin to whom Rs. 100 / - is supposed to have been 
paid . D . W . 40 , Kanduri Charan Tripathi said that he also attended the meeting 
at Garadpur which was addressed by the Chief Minister , Bijoyananda Patnaik 
And by Lokanath Misra and by Surendra Mohanty , and that after the meeting 
a woman named Parbati Devi was produced before the Chief Minister by two 
men , namely , Arjuni Tripathi and Krushna Das , and that Biju Babu gave the 
woman Rs. 300 / - for inducing the voters to yote for the Congress . This witness 
did not say that money was paid to any other person , although he stated in cross . 
examination that he was there until Biju Babu left the place in his jeep . 

P . W . 34 , Braja Sundar Satpathy said that a meeting was held at Garadpur 
canvassing for the Congress candidate and that Bijoyananda Patnaik ard Loka. 
nath Misra spoke at the meeting but he denied that any moncy was paid to any 
body at the meeting . He said that after the meeting was over a woman named 
Parbati Devi, who had been crippled as a result of air -dropping of a bag of rice 
on her was produced , and people said that shc was disabled and that something 
should be done for her, and that Biju Babu said that she should be taken to 
Cuttack General Hospital and he would see that proper treatment was given to 
her but he did not give her any money . The evidence of P . W . 35 , Panchanan Naik 
Is similar . The witnesses denied that any Arjun Tripathi or Tihadi was produced 
before Bijoyananda Babu after the meeting. 

Considering the entire evidence it appears to me llkely that when the crippled 
woman was brought before the Chief Minister, he may have paid her some money 
as an ex - gratia payment in view of her crippled condition , because 7 or 8 months 
after she had met with her accident there was hardly any point in taking her to 


of collecting the women voters and inducing them to vote for the Congress 
candidate . It was an ex - gratia payment which may have been made to impress 
the people assembled with the generosity of the Congress Government, but this 
does not amount to brihery . It must be held therefore that the allegation has not 
been proved . 

Two other allegations are concerned with Bijoyananda Patnaik and it would 
be convenient to take them up at this stage. In sub -paragraphs ( m ) and (n ) it 
was alleged that Surendranath Panda, who was working as an Agent for Surendra 
Mohanty, along with Surendra Mohanty and Bljoyananda Patnaik held a meeting 
At Kulagaon Isalo on 19th February 1982 and Surendranath Panda told the people 
at the meeting that if people would vote for Surendra Mohanty he would ask the 
Chief Minister to start relief work in the area and that the leading people present 
would be put in charge of the relief work , and some of the people present like 
Gajendra Rout , Madhusudan Bal and others then and there fell victims to the 
Inducement; and that Surendra Mohanty and Bijoyananda Patnaik also promised 
that if the villagers would vote for the Congress candidate recognition would be 
given to Class VI started at Harachandi Bidyapitha . 


In connection with these allegations the respondent examined 3 witnesses . 
namely , D .Ws, 15 , 16 and 17 and against them the petitioner examined 4 witnesses, 
namely , P .Ws. 20 , 21 , 22 and 24 . D . W . 16 , Karuni Rout gave his evidence in a 
straight forward manner and appeared to be speaking the truth . He stated that 
Surendranath Panda was then the Sarpanch of Asureswar Gram Panchayat within 
which Kulagaon Isalo and Harachandi Bidyapitha are situated ; that a meeting 
was held at Kulagaon Isalo two or three days before the date of polling for the 
Parliamentary election ; the mecting having been previously announced by 
Surendranath Panda , and that Bijoyananda Babu came to the meeting along with 
Surendra Mohanty and Surendranath Panda : and that at the meeting Bijoyananda 
Patnaik said that the area was a flood stricken area and he told the people to 


vote for the Congress and promised that he would meet the grievances of the 
people regarding flood relief etc .; he also asked them to submit application for 
relief work and that some people of Tihada and Barlmul and other places sub 
mitted applications, and that an application was also submitted at that meeting 
for recognition of Harachandi Bidyapitha , and that the Chief Minister said that 
he would see that recognition was granted to the School and he told the other 
applicants that their prayer would be met. The witness said that Harachandi 
Bidyapitha got recognition as a M . E . School about a year after the date of polling 
and not at the time. The promise by the Chief Minister to do relief work in a 
flood stricken area may no doubt act as an inducement for the people to vote for 
the Congress but It cannot be said that it amounts to illegal gratification . This 
is an advantage that a candidate belonging to the party in power naturally gets 
and although the other parts may resent it, it cannot be classed as an instance 
of corrupt practice . It is to be observed that according to this witness , Karuni 
Rout, the offer to the people to take charge of the flood relief work was not made 
conditional on their promising to vote for the Congress candidate , but generally , 
to meet the nceds of a flood - stricken area , relief work was promised , and at the 
same time, people were asked to vote for the Congress . That was a perfection 
proper address and not illegal gratification . D . W . 15 , Ratnakar Misra also spoke 
of the meeting at Kulagaon Isalo , and he also spoke generally in the same 
strain as D . W . 16 , Karuni Rout. D . W . 17 , Damodar Rout went a little further, 
saying that in the addresses it was stated that the grievances of the people would 
be met by the Chief Minister if they voted for the Congress candidate, but in the 
evidence of P . W . 15 and P . W , 16 there was no such conditional offer mentioned 
and it must be held that this was an embellishment made by D . W , 17 to support 
the case of the respondent, 


Surendranath Panda , who is supposed to have arranged the meeting, deposed 
for the petitioner us P . W . 24 , Ife denied that any such meeting had been con 
vened by him or held near his house at Kulagaon Isalo . But though the witness 
is a man of some position , it is difficult to accept his testimony as true . The res 
pondent proved a judgment Ex, KK in which the evidence of Surendranath Panda 
in a criminal case had been disbelieved . P . W . 24 also admitted that a Guvern 
ment order has been passed against him removing him from Sarpanchship on 
allegations of failure to account for the funds in his charge . In the circumstances 
the evidence of P . W . 24 must be discarded , 


P . W . 20 , Gajendra Rout belongs to Tihada which is about 2 miles or a little 
more from Kulagaon Isalo , and he said that he did not attend any meeting and 
did not know of any meeting held by Bijoyananda Patnaik and Surendra Mohanty 
at Kulagaon Isalo , and that he did not apply in such a meeting for being appoint 
ed as a man - in - charge of relief work . He admitted in cross- examination that 
some Test Relief Work had been done in his village and that another road from 
Janrabarain to Tillada with fulverts was made as Flood Relief Work . He, 
however, claimed that the work was started about a month after the date of 
polling and not immediately after the alleged meeting held at Kulagaon Isalo by 
the Chief Minister , P . W . 21, Madhusudan Bal, also stated that he did not know 
of any meeting held by Surendra Mohanty and Chief Minister at Kulagaon Isalo 
near the house of Surendra Panda and he did not apply for being appointed as 
a man - in - charge of the relief work at any such meeting. In cross - examination 
he also admitted the construction of the road from Janrabarimul to Tihada as a 
Flood relief work , but said that the construction of the road was started from the 
month of Kartik , long before the alleged meeting held at Kulagaon Isalo by the 
Chief Minister . He said that 4 roads had been constructed in his locality, and 


there was no man - in - charge for any of the 4 road construction works. P . W . 22 , 
Kalandi Charan Bal also gave similar evidence. 


After considering the entire evidence on the point I hold that a meeting was 
actually held by the Chief Minister and Surendra Mohanty at Kulagaon Isalo , 
but as I remarked in connection with the evidence of D . W . 16 . Haruni Rout, 
there was nothing done or said which amounts to corrupt practice and therefore 
the allegation that corrupt practice was done by Surendra Mohanty in collusion 
with the Chief Minister must fail. 

Sub -paragraph ( 0 ) , — The allegation in this sub -paragraph is that on 19th 
February , 1962 Bijoyananda Patnaik along with Surendra Mohanty went to 
Gadijanga alias Rameswarpur, and that at a mceting held there Surendra Mohanty 
said that the Chief Minister was on his side and if the people would vote for him 
he would see that the Hostel for the School was constructed , and that the Chief 
Minister in his speech supported Surendra Mohanty . 


SEC . W11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1896 


4839 


On this point there is evidence of two witnesses for the respondent, D . W . 9 , 
Purusottam Das and D . W 10 , Maheshwar Mohanty . D . W . 9 , stated that polling 
was held in his locality on 21st February , 1962, and two days before that in the 
compound of the M . E . School of Gadijang Surendra Mohanty and Bijoyananda 
Patnaik held a mceting which the witness attended , and at the meeting Surendra 
Mohanty said that if the local people would vote for him their difficulties would 
be removed, and that in reply to the suggestions made by the local people he said 
that the local school would get funds for the construction of its boarding houso 
if he would get the local votes , and that the Chief Minister also spoke at the 
mecting saying that the people should vote for the Congress candidate and he 
would provide necessary funds for the school i. e ., for the construction of the hostel. 
This witness stated that a hostel or a boarding house had been made after the 
election even though the Congress candidate had been dofeated at the election , 
In the circumstances , the offer to erect a hostel for the school could not have 
been conditional on the local people yoting for the Congress candidate , even if 
such a meeting was held and addressed by the Chief Minister . D . W . 10 , Mahe 
swar Mohanty gave evidence similar to D . W . 9 . Against the evidence of these 
witnesses, the petitioner examined P . W . 25 . Janaki Prasad Das , who is the Sar 
panch of the Gram Panchayat within which Gadijang is situated . He to also the 
Secretary of the School there . He denied that any meeting was held by the 
Chief Minister along with Surendra Mohanty in or near the School house on 
19th February , 1962, and that he was in the village on that date and he would 
have known if such a meeting was held . The witness admitted that a hostel was 
under construction for the School, but he said that money for the construction 
of the hostel had been granted by the Block Development Omce of the area . He 
further admitted that in cross - examination that the construction of the hostel 
began in February , 1962. It was admitted by both D . W . 9 and D . W . 10 that the 
School at Gadijang had not got recognition in February, 1962. P . W . 25 said that 
the School got recognition only towards the end of 1962 or beginning of 1963. It 
does not appear to be likely that the Chief Minister would hold a meeting at a 
small unrecognized school, even though on 19th February, 1962, he was going 
about in the constituency canvassing for the Congress candidate . The respon 
dent apparently got his cuc from the fact that the School hostel building was 
started in or about February , 1962. In view of the circumstances I do not accept 
the evidence of D .Ws, 9 and 10 about a meeting held in Gadijang School building . 
The allegation is therefore not proved . 


Sub - paragraph ( h ) . . In this sub - paragraph the respondent alleged that 
Purusottam Naik told villagers of Anuapada that Surendra Mohanty would 
arrange a ferry boat at the village ghat in case the pcople of thc locality would 
vote for him and that the people welcomed the offer and a ferry boat was actual 
ly supplied to Anuapada ferry ghat on 21st February, 1962. The two witnesses 
in connection with this allegation are D . W . 24 , Nilamani Bhadra and D . W . 25 , 
Sadhu Charan Das . . W . 24 who belongs to Anuapada stated that the village is 
situated near the embankment of a canal, namely Gobri canal or Kendrapara canal, 
and that there was no ferry service over the canal and that 15 days before the 
polling Purusottam Naik , Chairinan of the Panchayat Samiti came to the village 
and said that he would give a ferry boat if the people would vote for the Congress 
candidate and that he met the local people at the house of the Ward Member , 
Ajamhar Bhadra ; that about 8 days before the polling Purusottam Naik came 
again and said that a ferry boat would be given if the people would vote for tho 
Congress candidate , and that Ajambar Bhadra and others present promised to 
vote for the Congress candidate ; and that two days before the polling Purusottem 
Naik brought a fcrry boat which was punted along by one Nandi Jena to the 
village ferry ghat, and that on the date of polling Purusottam Naik and his wife 
came and Purusottam Naik asked Nandi Jena to put the hoat across the canal 
as many times as necessary so that the people might come to Sorisia booth to cast 
their votes and that he was promised Rs. 15 / - as his wages . D . W . 25 , Sadhu 
Charan Das only saw Purusottam Naik 8 days before the polling at the house 
of Upendra Bhadra , and he heard Purusottam Naik promising a ferry boat if the 
people would vote for the Congress candidate , and that when many of the people 
present at the meeting promised he said that a ferry boat would be given , and 
that on the date of polling he saw Nandi Jena putting the boat across the canal, 
and Purusottam Naik and his wife came in the morning and that Purusottam 
Naik told Nandi Jena that his wife would be there and she would give him Rs. 15 / 
at the end of the day , and that Purusottam Naſk s wife , who is a nominated 
woman member of the Panchayat Samiti, collected the women voters and saw that 
they were carried across the canal in the boat punted by Nandi Jena. 

None of these witnesses stated that Surendra Mohanty had any direct connec 
tion with the supply of the ferry boat. Purusottam Naik was the Chairman of the 
Panchayat Şamiti having jurisdiction in that local area and if he took an interest 


4840 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1886 [PART II 


in establishing a ferry service over the canal before the polling that would bene 
fit the voters both of the Congress and the P . S .P . parties . Moreover it would 
appear from the admission of D . W . 25 that the ferry boat was supplied by the 
Block Development Office , because D . W . 25 stated that the Block had not done 
any other work in the locality excepting the establishment of the ferry , Further , 
it appears from the evidence of these two witnesses that Anuapada and Sorisia 
are on the same side of the canal and the boat was not needed for Anyapada at 
all . According to these witnesses it was the voters of Naraharipur, Biluagari and 
Kulasahi on the other side of the canal who wanted the ferry boat for going 
to Sorisla booth and that the people were not taken by the ferry boat to Anuapada . 
The petitioner examined one witness , namely , P . W . 18 Upendra Bhadra in this 
connection . He is the Sarpanch of the local Panchayat. He said that Purusottam 
Naik never went to the house of Ajambar Bhadra to meet the local people there , 
and that Purusottam Naik never brought the ferry boat to the village two days 
before the polling or on any other day. He said that the people of Anuapada did 
not at all need a ferry boat , a fact which was admitted by D . W . 24 and D . W . 25 , 
but that people who had to go to Sorisia booth needed a ferry and that a ferry 
boat had been supplied by Government long before to Sorisia Ghat . The witness 
also said that he knew Nandi Jena but that Nandi Jena was a Kothia or an agri 
cultural servant employed by Pitambar Das, and Nandi Jena never plied a boat 
on the polling date , and the witness who was present in the village throughout the 
day never say Purusottam Naik s wife doing any work e . g . collecting women 
voters. This witness made a statement in cross- examination which explains what 
really happened . He said that Anuapada village does not go upto the Kendrapara 
canal, but a portion of Haripura village intervenes between Anuapada and the 
canal, and that a boat was plying for about one year at Haripur Ghat between 
Haripur and Naraharipur. The boat was tied up at a distance of about 300 cubits 
from the rice mill or Gagan Behari Bhadra which is the place at which D . W . 24 . 
Nilamani Bhadra usually stays and it appears that Nilamani Bhadra was really 
referring to this boat . P . W . 18 stated that the boat had been supplied not by 
Purusottam Naik but by the S .D . O ., P . W . D ., Kendrapara , and not Nandi Jena 
but one Nisharani Jena was in charge of the boat. I find , therefore , that a boat 
was supplied but for Haripur Ghat and not Anyapada ghat and that there is noth 
Ing to show that Surendra Mohanty had anything to do with the supply of the 
boat . The allegation therefore is not true, 

Sub - paragraph (1) . - In this sub -paragraph the respondent alleged that on 22nd 
February 1962 Surendra Mohanty and Purusottam Naik paid Rs. 200 / - for the 
M . E . School at Kansar in order to induce the local people to vote for him , On 
this point there is evidence of D . W . 29 , Ekadashi Rout and D , W , 30, Jagar Behera , 
Their evidence is however somewhat discrepant. Both of them claimed to be 
members of the School Committee but while D . W . 29 Ekadashi Rout said that the 
sum of Rs. 200 / - received from Purusottam Naik was entered in the School Account 
Book as a subscription received , D . W , 30 , Jagar Behera said that the sum was 
not entered in the School Account Book nor was there any discussion at the meet 
ing of the School Committee how the money should be spent. As against the 
evidence of these two witnesses the petitioner examined P . W . 14 , Govind Chandra 
Rout and P . W . 15 , Bhabagrahi Panda. P . W . 14 , Govind Chandra Rout is the 
Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat of Ostapur within which Kanaar is situated , 
and he is moreover the Secretary of the School Committee . He denied that any 
meeting was held in the School house and that any such amount was entered in 
the School Account Book . He offered to produce the School Account Book for the 
Inspection of the Tribunal, and actually did so after two or three days , and he 
showed from the School account book that no such subscription had been entered 
in the account of the school in February 1962 or on any subscquent month . It was 
no doubt suggested to this witness that some of the pages of the account book had 
been changed and false accounts made up in order to conceal the fact that such a 
subscription had been recelved from Surendra Mohanty . But that suggestion was 
not proved , P . W . 15 , Bhabagrahi Panda is the Vice - Chairman of the Panchayat 
Samiti, Kendrapara I, and is also a member of the Kansar School Committee. He 
fully supports the evidence of P . W . 14, Govind Chandra Rout. P .Ws. 14 and 15 
appear to be more reliable than the witnesses examined by the respondent in 
this connection , and it must therefore be held that the allegation of a contribution 
of Rs. 200 / - being paid by Surendra Mohanty to induce the people of Kansar to 
vote for him has not been established . 

Sub - paragraph ( k ). - The allegation in this sub -paragraph is that on 22nd 
February 1962 Surendra Mohanty and Purusottam Naik paid Rs, 50 / - to Bairagi 
Charan Jena for Farod Library to induce the people of Farod to vote for him . 
On this point there is the evidence of D . W . 29, Ekadashi Rout, who has already 
been mentioned in connection with the last allegation , and D . W . 28, Bairagi 


SEC, 9( iv)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4841 


R . 50 -held where Purusofta foot to ofarbalilding 


Charan Jena. D . W . 29 stated that after the meeting at Kangar School building, 
Surendra Mohanty , Purusottam Nalk and others went on foot to Farod , and 
there in the library another meeting was held where Purusottam Naik or Surendra 
Mohanty made over the sum of Rs. 50 / - to Bairagi Charan Jena for the village 
library . The evidence of D . W . 28 , Bairagi Charan Jena is very peculiar . He said 
that he received the money , but at first he refused to take it knowing that it was 
wrong to accept moncy offered for inducing people to vote for a particular person . 
Moreover , he admitted that he was not a member of the Library and stated at 
first that the Secretary of the Library , Nagamani Jena was present at the meeting. 
In course of his deposition , however , he altercd that statement, probably to make 
It plausible that the money should be paid to him and not to Nagamani Jena and 
said that Nagamani Jena was not actually present at the meeting . He explained 
the offer to him by saying that he was a Mamlatkar and therefore a man of some 
importance in his village. But he had to admit that he is an employee of Hari 
Charan Babu and stays in Hari Charan Babu s house at Kendrapara town and 
only occasionally he comes to his village home. He admitted that the Sarpanch 
and other people were present in the meeting, and it is difficult to understand 
why the money was paid to him who was neither a member of the Library Com 
mittee nor a usual resident of the village. It seems to me that he was named in 
the recrimination because the respondent could be certain of producing him as 
a witness , P .Ws. 14 and 15 whose evidence has beert already referred to before , 
stated that there was no meeting at Farod Library at all by Surendra Mohanty 
and Purusottam Naik and no money was given to Bairagi Charan Jena . This 
allegation is also not proved . 


Sub -paragraph ( t ) : In the recrimination petition It was stated that on 13th 
February 1962 Surendra Mohanty along with Biren Mitra , the then Deputy Chief 
Minister , with some other people went to Barelpur and met some people at a 
Library known as Bidei Babaji Pathagar, and there in order to induce the people 
to vote for the Congress candidate Biren Mitra told Anadi Charan Swain to go to 
his residence at Cuttack and promised that he would then pay him Rs. 50 / - for 
the improvement of the library . 

In connection with this allegation , the respondent examined 3 witnesses, name 
ly , D . W . 11 , Sridhar Mohanty , D . W . 35 , Hrudananda Panda and D . W . 36 , Upendra 
nath Samal; but Anadi Charan Swain to whom the money is supposed to have 
been offered was not examined . There are important discrepancies in the evl 
· dence of these witnesses. According to D . W . 35 . Surendra Mohanty addressed the 
meeting asking the people to vote for him and promised to do improvement to 
the village library , and Biren Mitra also addressed the meeting and told Anadi 
Charan Swain to go to Cuttack 4 or 5 days later when he would pay Rs. 50 / - for 
the library and that Anadi Charan Swain thereafter went to Cuttack 4 or 5 days 
later , and the witness saw books worth Rs . 40 / - or Rs. 50 / - purchased for the 
library . D . W . 38 , however , stated that it was Surendra Mohanty who asked 
Anadi Charan Swain to go to Cuttack 4 or 5 days later and get Rs. 50 / - for the 
library ; and it would appear from the evidence of this witness that money was 
promised and paid by Surendra Mohanty and not Biren Mitra , D . W . 11 said that 
Surendra Mohanty said that money would be paid for the library if the people 
would vote for the Congress, and Biren Mitra also said the same thing . No body 
deposed of having actually seen the payment of the money. In view of the dis 
crepancies it is not possible to accept the evidence as to the payment of money 
for Bidei Babaji Pathagar. Further , there is the evidence of P . W . 29, Dasarathi 
Rout examined for the petitioner, who stated that no such meeting was ever 
held at Bidei Babali Pathagar . I therefore hold that the allegation has not been 
proved 

Sub - paragraph ( 2 ) : In the recrimination it was stated that on the same date 
i. e , on 13th February 1962 the Deputy Chief Minister also went to Osang L . P . 
School with Surendra Mohanty and that Biren Mitra promised to pay Rs . 400 / 
for the construction of the pucca walls for the school building If the people pre 
sent promised to vote for the Congress candidate and then and there a part pay 
ment of Rs. 200 / - was made by Biren Mitra . D . W , 21, Rakhal Prasad Mohanty 
gave evidence on this point. He said that Biren Babu said that he was prepared 
to help the School to construct its house if people promised to vote for the Congress 
candidate and that he actually gave Rs. 200 / - to Chintamant Sahu , the local 
Sarpanch and that Chintamani Sahu handed over the money to the witness 
" Rakhal Prasad Mohanty and Rakhal Prasad Mohanty after some days handed over 
the money to Padma Charan Mohanty , Chairman of the school Committee, The 
evidence of D . W . 21 as to Biren Mitra thus addressing a meeting, and paying 
money is not corroborated. Padma Charan Mohanty who deposed as D . W . 22, 


4842 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5, 1886 [Part II 


merely stated that he received a sum of Rs. 200 / - from D . W . 21, Rakhal Prasad 
Mohanty and he himself was not present at any meeting held by Biren Mitra and 
Surendra Mohanty . P . W . 28, Jalram Mohanty denied that any such meeting was 
held . It does not appear to me to be likely that the Deputy Chief Minister would 
be going about paying money to small village libraries and schools while can 
vassing for the Congress candidate . As one of the heads of the Congress organi 
sation he might be canvassing for the Congress candidate but it cannot be believ 
ed that he would be thus paying money to small local organisations at public 
meetings . The evidence in any case is not satisfactory , and the allegation must 
be disbelieved , 

Sub -paragraph ( v ) : The allegation in the recrimination is that on the same 
day i.e . 13th February 1962 Biren Mitra and Surendra Mohanty went to Mani 
jori L , P , School and there Rs. 100 / - was paid for the improvement of Manijori 
L . P . School. The witnesses on this point are D . W . 35 , Hrudananda Panda who 
also spoke in support of the allegation in sub -paragraph (t ) . His evidence is that 
from Bareipur after the meeting was held at the Library room he proceeded on 
cycle to Manijort where he performed Puja as a priest at gome body s house and 
then he attended the meeting which was held at Manijori L . P . School and was 
addressed by Biren Mitra . It is difficult to believe such evidence and the 
demaneour of the witness did not appear to me to be particularly satisfactory . 
The only other witness is Mayadhar Sahu who was examined as D . W . 37 . But his 
evidence is contradicted by P . W . 30 , Bidyadhar Das who deposed to say that no 
such meeting was held at Manijort I . P . School, He stated further that Mayadhar 
Sahu was working for the Socialist Party at the time of election . For reasons al 
ready stated in the previous paragraph I do not accept the allegation as true . 
None of the allegations, therefore , in paragraph 8 sub - parágraphs (c ) to (v ) are 
established . As already found there is some basis of truth in some of the allega 
tions but the incidents which actually took place do not amount to corrupt practice. 

Issue No. 30 : No evidence has been adduced in support of any of the allegations 
made in paragraph 9 of the recriṁination and the finding must be in the negative. 

Issue No. 31 ; This issue relates to the allegations made in paragraph 11 clauses 
( a ) to ( e ) of the recrimination . In paragraph 11 ( a ) it is alleged that Surendra 
Mohanty through his Agent, Padma Charan Naik hired a country boat to carry 
voters from Anuapada village to Sorista booth on 23rd February 1962 . This allega 
tion is really a part of the allegation made in sub -paragraph (h ) of paragraph 8 
and has already been dealt with . There was no occasion at all for carrying voters 
from Anuapada to Sorisia booth and the allegation as made in the recrimination 
is misconceived . 

Sub -paragraph (b ) alleges that Purusottam Nalk as agent of Surendra Mohanty 
hired two bullock carts of Bamdev Jena and Brahmananda Mohanty to carry 
female voters from Kusunpur and Deradi, Practically no evidence has come in 
support of this allegation , Surendranath Dwivedy himself when deposing as D . W . 
2 said that on 23rd February 1962 at Kusunpur he saw some agents ot Surendra 
Mohanty including one Ramesh convęying voters to the polling booth and that he 
lodged a complaint before the Presiding Omcer of the Polling Booth . Now , in 
the recrimination it is not mentioned that Surendranath Dwivedy himself had 
direct knowledge to the allegations made in paragraph 11. In the verſAcation 
hę stated that the allegation was true to his information and not that it was true 
to his knowledge . In the circumstances , it is difficult to accept his testimony that 
he himself saw Ramesh , agent of Şurendra Mohanty engaging bullock carts ; and 
moreover Ramesh is not mentioned in the recrimination petition itsell, D . W . 43, 
Sashikanta Acharya , a clerk of the District Election Offce , Cuttack stated that tho 
Presiding Officer of Endar Polling Station sent a complaint petition purporting to 
be Alcd by Surendranath Dwivedy along with his report to the Returning Officer . 
This complaint petition was marked Il for identification but it was not formally 
proved by Surendranath Dwivedy . Apparently it was not considered relevant. 
Thus , the allegation in clause ( b ) of paragraph 11 cannot be taken as proved , 


No evidence was adduced in support of the allegation made in sub -para ( c ). 
In sub -para ( d ) it is alleged that Surendra Mohanty through Purusottam Naik 
hired rickshaws of Sk . Juma and $ k , Ayub to carry voters to Baldev M . E , School 
and the Girls M . E . School booths respectively . One witness, namely , D . W . 31, Sk . 
Juma was examined by the respondent in this connection . He said that Sanatan 
Rout called him to the house of Purusottam Naik and he was engaged for carry 
ing Congress voters in his rickshaw on the polling day at Kendrapara town and 
that he was paid Rs. 5 / - on that very day by Sanatan Rout and Rs. 10 / - more 
after he had done the work . He stated that he conveyed Musliin voters from 


Sec. S ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 


4843 


Fakirabad to the polling station at the Girls High School 10 to 20 times, then he 
carried some voters stranded in Brahmananda Rout s taxi, which had gone out 
of order , to Khariang polling station and thereafter he carried Hindu voters from 
Ayodhyanagar to Baldev Jew polling station , and that from Ayodhyanagar to 
Baldev Jew M , E . School booth he did about 30 trips. Sanatan Rout, however , de 
posed for the petitioner as P . W . 16 and denied that he had thus engaged Sk . Juma s 
rickshaw under the direction of Purusottam Naik . Sk , Juma was not cited as a 
witness but was produced without summons he was permitted to be examined 
because his name is mentioned in the recrimination petition , But he tried to 
prove much more than what is stated in the recrimination petition . According to 
that petition , as already quoted above , the voters were carried in Sk , Juma s 
rickshaw to Baldev Jew M . E . School and in Sk . Ayub s rickshaw to the Girls 
School, but Sk . Juma tried to prove that he had carried voters to both the Schools . 
In view of this discrepancy it is difficult to accept the evidence of DW . 31, SK , 
Juma, as quite true . If in the town a rickshaw was thus used for carrying voters 
so many times , it would have been natural for the other party to notice the fact 
and to Ale a complaint, but thcre was no such complaint Alled in respect of the 
rickshaws having been engaged by Surendra Mohanty to carry voters to the poll 
ing booths of Kendrapara town . The allegation must therefore be held to be not 
established . 


en 


Sub - paragraph ( e ) : In this sub -paragraph the allegation is that on 23rd February 
1962 Surendra Mohanty , through Brahmananda Rout hired taxi No. ORC . 2643 
to carry voters from Ilazari Bagicha and other places to Kharlanga booth , D . W . 
44 , Sridhar Kar, a pleader practising in Kendrapara , said that he saw Brahma 
nanda Rout carrying voters to the polling station in his taxi, the number of the 
taxi being ORC . 2645 . Though the witness is a practising pleader , it is difficult 
to accept his testimony . He said that he did not remember whether he acted as 
polling agent for Surendranath Dwivedy. If he had acted as a polling agent he 
must have remembered the same and therefore the statement of the witness shows, 
a tendency to conceal the truth . Moreover he said that he is not a member of any 
political party , but D . W . 7 , Krushna Chandra Mallk , another prectising lawyer 
of Kendrapara admitted that he as well as Sridhar Kar are members of the P . S . P : 
party which has ben merged in the Sanyukta Socialist Party . P . W . 16 , Sanatan Rout 
stated that Brahmananda Rout had a private car and not a taxi, but at the time 
of the election it was lying in a broken condition . The petitioner also examined 
the Motor Vehicles Clerk , namely P . W . 19 , Gunanidhi Mohanty , who proved with 
reference to a register produced in court that the car ORC . 2645 is an Austin 12 
and is at present registered in the name of Abdul Bari Khan as owner, but the 
car is registered as a private car and not a taxi, P . W . 23, Maheswar Rout said 
that he knew Abdul Bart of Garapur near Rajgarh and that Abdul Bari son of 
Abdul Latif owns a small car . The witness used the term taxi but he explained 
that he calls small cars by the name taxi. In the circumstances it must be held 
that the hiring of any taxi holonging to Brahmananda Rout with the registration , 
No, ORC . 2045 is not proved at all , 


Issue No. 32 : This issue relates to the allegation that Surendra Mohanty paid 
his workers some remuneration beyond their actual expenses, but no evidence 
has been adduced in support of this allegation and therefore the issue is answered 
in the negative. 


Issue No. 33 : This relates to the allegation that some items of election expenses 
by Surendra Mohanty have been omitted from the Return . The return of Election 
Expenses of Surendra Mohanty was called for and marked as Ex . LL . But no 
attempt has ben made to prove that any item of expenditure has been omitted 
therefrom . It was urged that the expenses in connection with the visits of Chief 
Minister and Deputy Chief Minister to the constituency are not included in the 
Return of Election Expenses . It is however not expected that Surendra Mohanty 
would pay for the visits by the Chief Minister or the Deputy Chief Minister. This 
Issue also must be held not to have been proved . 


Issue No. 34 : This issue relates to the question whether the total expenses in 
curred by respondent No . 2 , i.e . Surendra Mohanty , exceeded the prescribed limit 
of Rs. 25 , 000 / -. No evidence has becn adduced in support of this allegation also 
and the allegation must be found to be not proved , 


Issue No . 35 ; This issue relates to the question whether Surendra Mohanty or 
his Agents took the help of the Block Development Omcers as mentioned in para 
graph 14 of the recrimination . 


844 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 (PART II-- 
- - = = = = == = = = 

In paragraph 14 of the recrimination a reference is made to one particular 
Block Development Officer, namely , Bansidhar Mohapatra, B .D . O , Mahanga , and 
It is alleged that he on 13th February 1962 distributed money in the villages of 
Akarpara , Purusottampur and Lalitgiri and other places with the help of Sachi 
danunda Jena , agent of respondent No . 2 , and that this was done in order to 
ImMuence the voters to vote in favour of Surendra Mohanty , the money being paid 
for the building of new roads. The respondent examined 5 witnesses to prove this 
allegation , namely , D . W . 12 Pahali Sahu and D . W . 38 , Sanatan Bhui of Akarpara , 
and D . W . 13 , Dhaneswar Parida, D . W . 14 , Pranakrishna Singh and D . W , 39 , Kartik 
Chandra Singh of Lalitgiri. The evidence of these witnesses is in the same strain , 
D . W . 12 stated that 6 or 7 days before the polling date Sachidananda Jena , Sar 
panch of the locality , came by a jeep along with the B . D . O ., Mahanga, Bansidhar 
Babu and 50 or 60 men assembled and that Sachidananda Jena introduced the 
B . D . O ., Bansi Babu to the people and when the people complained that there was 
a breach in the road which was getting waterlogged and causing diffculty , the 
B . D . O . authorised the repair of the breach under the management of one Bis 
-wanath Rout and Rs. 100 / - was advanced to Biswanath Rout for the repair work . 
D . W . 13 stated that Sachidananda Jena told the people that he had brought the 
B . D .O . and people should get their road repaired with the funds advanced by him 
and vote for the Congress candidate , and that one ( swar Chandra Ransingh was 
advanced a sum of Rs. 200 / - for repair to the local road at Lalitgirl. It is not 
necessary to refer to the evidence of the other witnesses in detail. Though these 
-witnesses stated that Sachidananda Jena was an agent of Surendra Mohanty , they 
admitted in ( TOSS - examination that in 1981 mid -term election Sanatan Jena stood 
as a candidate for election to the Orissa Legislative Assembly from Mahanga 
constituency against the official Congress candidate , Surendranath Patnaik , Sachl 
dananda standing as an independent candidate . In the circumstances it is diff 
cult to believe that by February 1962 he had come back to the Congress fold and 
was working for Surendra Mohanty . It has been stated that as Surendra Mohanty 
did not depose in connection with this allegation , a finding should be made against 
him ; but a finding In case of corrupt practice has to be based on evidence which 
- proves the allegation beyond reasonable doubt . The fact that Şachidananda Jena 
stood as an independent candidate against the official Congress candidate a few 
months before the Parliamentary election leads to the conclusion that it is unlikely 
that he was acting for the Congress candidate at the time of Parliamentary elec 
- tion ; and though Surendra Mohanty did not depose in connection with this allega 
tion , in his rejoinder to the recrimination he denied that Sachidananda Jena ever 
worked as his agent, and in the Return of his expenses Ex , LL his agents and 
workers are mentioned but the name of Sachidananda Jena does not And place 
therein . As regards the B . D .O . having exhorted to the local people to vote for 
the Congress candidate only one of the 5 witnesses , namely , D . W . 39 said so and 
the others merely stated that it was Sachidananda Jena who was saying that 
he had brought the B . D . O , so that their needs in the matter of road repairs might 
be met , and that the B . D . O , merely advanced the money to certain people to 
work as men - in -charge of the relief work or earth work for the repair of the 
road . The B . D .O . Bansidhar Mohapatra is now no longer at Mahanga . He has 
been transferred to Puri district. A summons was issued for his examination as 
a Court witness , but unfortunately the summons could not be served , and it was 
not thought necessary to wait further for his appearance. One Muralldhar Tri 
pathy , the Clerk of the B . D . O s office at Mahanga , was examined as D . W . 46 having 
been summoned to produce the accounts of the expenditure of the Flood Rellet 


1961 to March 1962. D . W , 46 produced an account book but it appeared that he 
was a new assistant and knew very little of the details of the work of the B . D .O s 
office and had no connection with the Accounts Department, Accordingly the 
account book could not be proved . The petitioner examined a witness , namely , 
P . W . 36 , Natabar Jena of Lalitgiri, He denied that the B . D . O . of Mahanga had ever 
visited Lalitgiri along with Sachidananda Jena within 8 or 10 days before the poll 
ing for the Parliamentary election in that area , and he denied also that Iswar 
Chandra Ransingh of his village ever acted as man - in - charge for doing any road 
repair work . He stated that the breaches to the road caused by the floods of July 
1961 were still there and had not been repaired . It appeared to me that this 
witness came to deny , everything, and his testimony therefore cannot be accepted as 
correct. January and February are the best months for doing earth work for 
repair of Kacha roads, the floods about the middle of 1961 caused a lot of damage 
to Kacha roads, as many witnesses admitted , and flood relief grants were given 
to the local officers for getting them repaired partly as relief work and partly as 
road construction work . 

P . W , 24, Surendra Panda admitted that earth work done as relief work after 
the floods was done through a local man appointed as man - in - charge, provided the 


" Sec. 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964, PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4845 


- 


- 


villagers of that locality agreed to a particular person being appointed as man 
In - charge, and if there was no such agreement the work was done departmentally , 
Sachidananda Jena was the Sarpanch of his Gram Panchayat Kusupur, within 
which Akarpara and Lalitgiri are situated . It is not at all unworthy of credit 


"breaches of the roads and request him to sanction repairs . D . W , 46 stated that the 
expenditure of the flood relief grant on Test Relief Work like construction and 
repair of roads could be sanctioned by the B . D . O . only with the approval of the 
Subdivisional Omcer . It would appear therefore that if any man -in - charge was 
appointed for doing road repair work out of the Flood Relief grant at Akarpara or 
Lalitgirl by the B . D . O ., Mahanga it must have been done with the approval of 
the S .D . O . There is no reason to hold that the B . D . O . made the grant of the 
advance out of the Flood Relief fund on condition that the people of the locality 
would vote for the Congress . It is difficult to accept the testimony of a witness 
like D . W . 39 who said that the B . D . O . asked the people to vote for the Congress 
while making advance for road repair out of the Flood Relief Grant. The res 
pondent, Surendranath Dwivedy sent a telegram Ex . HH to the Collector, Cuttack 
on 21st February 1962 complaining that the B . D . O . Mahanga was engaged in elec 
tion propaganda in collusion with the Congress workers and had distributed money 
for relief work ; but Dwivedy in the course of his deposition said that his informa 
tion was not first -hand information but he heard from the people that the B . D . O ., 
Mahanga was doing election propaganda . Distributing money for relief work was 
not wrong ; it was the duty of the B . D . O . with the general approval of the $ . D . O . 
to do so out of the flood relief grant at his disposal. In the circumstances , I can 


Mahanga for election propaganda is acceptable. In Mahanga Assembly constitu 
ency in fact, the votes obtained by Surendra Mohanty are considerably behind 
the votes obtained by Surendranath Dwivedy as shown by the result sheet Ex . 
XVIII, This issue is therefore answered in the negative. The allegation that 
Surendra Mohanty utilised the services of the B . D . O . Mahanga is held not to have 
been proved . 

Issue No . 36 : This issue relates to the use of Government machinery to help 
Surendra Mohanty in his election campaign . The only specific allegation how 
ever is in respect of B . D . O ., Mahanga and in respect of the then Chief Minister 
and the then Deputy Chieť Minister. The case of B . D . O ., Mahanga has alrcady 
been dealt with . As regards the case of the then Chief Minister and the Deputy 
Chief Minister , there is no reason to doubt that they participated in the election 
t ampaign in favour of Surendra Mohanty , but they did so as Congress chiefs and 
not in their capacity as executive heads of Government. Accordingly the issue 13 
found in the negative, 


Issue No . 37 : This issue does not arise as It has not been established that 
respondent No . 2 , Surendra Mohanty had committed any corrupt practice. 

Issue No. 38 . - - In view of the finding that no corrupt practice has been esta 
blished it cannot be said that the result of the election was affected through cor 
rupt practices committed either by respondent No . 2 or by respondent No. 1 . 


Issue Nos . 39 and 40 . - It has been found that 295 valid votes for Surendra 
Mohanty was wrongly rejected ( Issue No . 6 ) hut also that 455 votes llable to re 
jection were wrongly counted in favour of Surendra Mohanty ( Additional Issues 
Nos, 2 and 3 ). The result , therefore, is that the votes counted in favour of Surendra 
Mohanty must be decreased by 160. It has been found that 385 votes counted in 
tavour of Surendranath Dwivedy are liable to rejection ( Issues Nos , 6 and 12 ) 
but it has also been found that 394 valid votes cast in favour of Surendranath 
Dwivedy were wrongly rejected (Additional Issue No. 1 ) . Therefore, Surendranath 
Dwivedy is entitled to have 9 votes added to his votes . Finally it has been found 
that 74 votes cast in favour of Surendra Mohanty were wrongly counted for 
Surendranath Dwivedy ( Issue No . 12 ) but also that 125 votes cast in favour of 
Surendranath Dwivedy were wrongly counted for Surendra Mohanty ( Additional 
Issue No. 3 ). Accordingly the difference , 51 votes , must be substracted from 
Surendra Mohanty s votes, and added to Surendranath Dwivedy s votes . The 
net result is that 211 votes have to be substracted from Surendra Mohanty s votes 
and 60 votes are to be added to Surendranath Dwivery s vote. This gives a 
majority of 271 in favour of respondent, Surendranath Dwivedy which is to he 
added to his declared majority of 66 . leading to the result that altogether Surendra 
nath Dwivedy has won by 337 votes . Accordingly the allegation that Surendra 
Mohanty got a majority of valid votes is found to be wrong. Hence , the election 


1846 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUŞA 5 , 1886 [Parc 11 

.. . - 

= - 
of respondent No. 1 is not liable to be set aside and respondent No. 2 Surendra : 
Mohanty is not entitled to be declared elected . 


- 


- - 


- 


As regards costs it has already been mentioned that in election Petition No . 1 
inspection of the ballot papers was not allowed . That case was founded on the . 
simple allegation that the Assistant Returning Officer , P , R Chandra , had been 
coerced Into declaring the result without giving an opportunity to take any action 
on petitions for recount. If that case had stood by itself, it would have been 
disposed of very soon . Accordingly , I would consider the cost of Rs. 1000 / - as 
suflicient in that case . As regards Election Petition No. 54 of 1902 , inspection of 
ballot papers was allowed in that case and the case necessarily has been protract 
ed ; but the case most probably would have been considerably shortened if res 
pondent No. 1 , Surendranath Dwivedy , had not made his vehement allegations as 
to tampering. It has been mentioned before that after the inspection of ballot 
papers was completed , Panbehari Mohanty applied for a recount of votes without 
recording oral evidence , and the then Member of the Tribunal observed that such 
a recount might be held but for the vehement allgations as to tampering with the 
ballot papers. Originally Surendranath Dwivedy might have had some apprehen 
sion that ballot papers would be tampered with , when he found that the Chief 
Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister had been in telephonic communication 
with the Returning Officers at Kendrapara . But after the inspection of the ballot 
papers he had no reason to persist in his allegation that there had been tampering 
because it was found that the Assistant Returning Ofcers had done their duties 
properly , even though some minor rules like sealing of the bundles of ballot 
papers had not been complied with . In the circumstances , even though the parties 
have spent considerably more than Rs, 2, 000 / -, the sum deposited as security 
towards cost , I think Rs. 2 , 000 / - should be the limit of the cost awarded against 
the petitioner Banbehart Mohanty , 


It is therefore ordered that the Election Petition No. 1 of 1962 be dismissed with 
cost of Rs. 1, 000 / - payable by the petitioner to the respondent out of the amount in 
deposit and that Elertion Petition No. 54 / 62 be dismissed with cost of Rs. 2 ,000 / 
payable to respondent No . 1 , Surendranath Dwivedy by the petitioner , Banbchari 
Mohanty out of his deposit. In Election Petition No. 1 of 1962 the respondent will 
withdraw the whole of his security deposit of his recrimination but in Election 
Petition No. 54 of 1962 the respondent No . 1 , Surendranath Dwivedy will pay 
Rs. 500 / - out of the security deposit as cost to the pctitioner , Banbehari Mohanty : 

23 - 11- 1964 . 

S . K . SEN , Member. 
Election Tribunal, Cuttack .. 


[No. 82 / 1-54 / 62.) 

By order , 
V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1964 
S . O . 4306 ,--- In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on the 
30th November , 1964 by the Election Tribunal, Allahabad . 
BEFORE SRI B , K . CHOUDHURI, MEMBER, ELECTION TRIBUNAL , 

ALLAHABAD 

ELECTION PETITION No. 208 OF 1962 
Shri Hariraj Singh , son of _ Shri Khazan Singh , resident of Village Rasna , 
Pargana, Tahsil and District Meerut , U . P . - Petitioner , 

Versus 
1 . Shri Shah Nawaz Khan , son of Shri Tikka Khan , resident of 4, Rafi Marg , 

New Delhi. 
2 , Shri Maharaj Singh Bharti, son of Shri Nidhram , resident of village 

Arnavali, Pargana , Tahsil and District Meerut - Respondents. 


JUDGMENT DELIVERED ON 30TH NOVEMBER 1964 
1. Shri Hari Raj Singh , who was an elector of 81-Meerut Lok Sabha Consti 
tuency , has filed this Election Petition questioning the election of Sri Shah Nawaz 
Khan , Respondent No. 1 , on the ground that the said respondent committed 
corrupt practices as defined in section 123 of the Representation of People Act 
through his agents , supporters and workers. 


on 21st February 1962 and 23rd February 1962. On 21st February 1962 polling 
took place in Meerut Cantt., Meerut Rural and Kithore Assembly Constituencies 
while Meerut City and Hastinapur went to poll on 23rd February 1962 . All the 
abovesaid five Assembly Constituencies constitute 81-Meerut Lok Sabha Consti 
tuency . 

3 . Respondent No. 1 and 2 and Shri Shiv Dutt Singh and Shri Ratish Mohan 
Agarwal were the contesting candidates in the election for the above - said Lok 
Sabha Constituency . 

Respondent No . 1 was á candidate from Indian National Congress Party while 
Respondent No. 3 (Maharaj Singh Bharti) was a candidate from the Socialist 
Party of India . 

4 . The result of the election was declared on 28th February 1962 by the 
Returning Officer , whereby Rcspondent No. 1 was declared elected . According 
to the declaration , the analysis of the votes polled was as follows: 
( 1 ) Sri Shah Nawaz Khan 

1, 32, 940 
( 2 ) Sri Maharaj Singh Bharti 

27 , 900 
( 3 ) Sri Shiv Dutt Singh 

25,503 
( 4 ) Sri Ratish Mohan Agarwal 

4 , 996 
NOTE . — ( The above Agures are given in paragraph 6 of the written state 

ment of Respondent No. 1 , They have been checked from the result 

sheet and found to be correct. ) 
The petitioner gave wrong figures in paragraph 6 of the petition , 
5 . The corrupt practices have been enumerated in sub - paragraphs ( a ) to ( j ) 
of paragraph 12 and in paras 13 , 14 and 15 of the petition , Briefly stated they are 
as follows: 
( a ) Mam Chand and SubhasAgarwal were Editors and Sub - editors 

respectively of a local daily newspaper “ Mairashtra " . In the above 
paper of the 18th February 1962, they published an article by one 
"MAKRAND with the caption " Maharaj Singh Bharti Hindu Nahin 
Mahmood Ghaznavi Ilai" . Copy of this article is attached with the 
petition as Annexure A . The petitioner alleges that this article 
was an appeal to the voters not to vote for Sri Maharaj Singh Bharti 
on the ground of religion , caste and race and tended to promote 
feelings of hatred and enmity between different classes of citizens , 
It is further alleged that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal are 
friends of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan (Respondent No . 1 ) . They actively 
supported him in the above election Meetings of workers namely 
Dr. Madan , Shanta Ram , Dr. Nizamuddin , Jagdish Saran Rastogi, 
besides others , supporting Respondent No. 1 were held at the house 
of Mam Chand , who was a congress worker as well as the polling 
agent of Sri Jagdish Saran Rastogi, the Assembly candidate of Con 
gress in Mecrut City constituency . It is alleged that the above article 

was published with the consent of Respondent No. 1. 
( b ) That the abovementioned issue of Mairashtra also contained false and 

defamatory statements regarding Sri Maharaj Singh Bharti ( Respon 
dent No. 2 ) on its front page. The contents of the first page is given 
in Annexure B filed with the petition . 


( c ) The abovesaid issue of Mairashtra was distributed in a procession of 

Congress on the 18th February 1962 in Sadar and Lalkurti, Meerut. 
In this procession , Respondent No. 1 and Mam Chand both parti 
cipated . It is further alleged that this issue of Mairashtra was also 
distributed in the various Hindu Mohallas in Meerut City and Cantt ., 
mentioned in Schedule B by congress workers and supporters of Res 
pondent No. ) , namely Mom Chand , Subhas Agarwal, Rakesh Mohan , 
Bhagwat Azad and others. 


4848 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 6, 1886 (PART II 


( d ) Mam Chand , in meetings held on the 19th February 1962 in Kanker 

khera , Lalkurti and Topkhana, Meerut, read the article ot "MAK 
RAND " and also the defamatory statements appearing in the front 
page of Mairashtra dated 18th February 1962 . It is further alleged 
that in meetings at Lalkurti and Topkhana, Respondent No. 1 himself. 
made open reference to the front pagc of Mairashtra dated 18th 
February 1962 in relation to the personal character of Respondent. 
No. 2 knowing and believing fully that the statements made therein 

were false and frivolous. 
le ) Respondent No. 1 through his agents and supporters namely Mam Chand 

and Subhas Agarwal got the first page of the above - said Daily 
Majrashtra with some other matter regarding Respondent No . 2 re 
printed in large number on 19th February 1962 . The contents of the 
reprints are attached with the petition as Annexure " C " . It is further 
alleged that Respondent No. 1 got the above- said reprints as well as 
the original issue of the Mairashtra distributed in various villages of 
the constituency in Meerut City and Meerut Cantt ., and in other 

villages . 
( f ) The reprints contained nothing else but false and defamatory state 

ments regarding Respondent No. 2 in relation to his personal character 
and was an election pamphlet of Respondent No. 1 . The reprints , 
were published and distributed with the full knowledge and belief 


was done with a view to prejudice the election prospects of Res - - 
pondent No. 2 . 


( g ) The above - said reprints were distributed in the procession of congress in 

large numbers on 20th February 1962 in Meerut City , in which Res - - 

pondent No. 1 participated . 
( h ) The reprints were distributed in Election meetings on 21st February , 

1962 in Gujari Bazar and other places by the supporters of Respondent 
No. 1 , who himself participated in these meetings. 


(i ) On 23rd February 1962 when polling was going on in Meerut City, the 

Respondent No. 1 went to Jama Masjid , Meerut and there he appealed 
to the Muslim brotherhood to vote for him on ground of religion .. 
He reminded them of the atrocities committed by the other com 
munities during the recent communal riots with special reference to 
the damages caused to the mosques at Meerut. Respondent No. 1 
also offered to pay a substantial sum of Rs. 2 ,200 to the management 
of Jama Masjid through Mufti Abdul Khaliq , Municipal Com 
missioner, Meerut, for the loss , destruction and damage done to the 

Jama Masjid in the recent communal riots . 
( i ) On the night of 21st February 1962, Respondent No. 1 in a congress car 

No, USV 1715 got a false and defamatory announcement made through 
out Meerut Cíty through Lekhpal Singh and Reoti Saran who were 
mengbers of the Jatay community to the effect that Respondent No. 2 
is a Jat and the people of his community have beaten members of 
the Jatav community and , therefore , the Jatay community should 
vote against Maharaj Singh Bharti who is a Jat. 


8. (a ) Khan Bahadur Mohammad Aijaz Husain who is a prominent citizen of 
Meerut City was a prospective candidate against congress in the last general 
elections. It is alleged that the congress hierarchy with the consent of Respondent 
No . 1 and Sri Jagdish Saran Rastogi induced K . B . Aijaz Husain not to stand in 
General Election against the congress by promising him grant of sumptuous loan 
from the Government and a seat in the U . P . Legislative Council. As a result of 
the above promise and inducement, K . B . Aijaz Husain voted and supported res 
pondent No. 1 and congress candidates in the last General Election , 


( b ) The Congress Government in Uttar Pradesh with the consent of Respondent 


Panchayats of different villages of the District. Respondent No . 1 and his 
supporters induced several persons named in paragraph 13 ( b ) of the petition to 
vote and support the congress candidates in the election by promising to get them 


Respondent No. 1 and other congress candidates. 


7. Respondent No. 1 procured the services and assistance of Laxmi Narain 
for getting a vast number of votes under his influence for the furtherance of the 
prospects of his election . Laxmi Narain was then and is working as Sarpanch of 
the Nyaya Panchayat Arnawali. The petitioner alleges that the above act of 
Respondent No . 1 is corrupt practice as defined in section 123 ( 7 ) of the 
Representation of People Act. 


8 . Respondent No . 1, his agents and supporters with his consent hired 
numerous Rickshaws in Meerut City and Cantonment for bringing the voters from 
their houses to the polling booths. They also procured numerous cars from con 
tractors and friends of Delhi for the above purpose . In some villages, Respondent 
No. 1 procured very many tractors and other vehicles for the conveyance of the 
electors to and from the polling stations. These acts of Respondent No. 1 come 
within the definition of corrupt practice under scction 123 ( 5 ) of the Representation 
of People Act. 


9 . The petitioner , therefore prayed that the election of Respondent No . 1 
trom the 81-Meerut Lok Sabha Constituency be declared null and void and that 
the petitioner be awarded costs of petition against Respondent No. 1 . 


10 . Respondent No. 1 asserted that no corrupt practice was committed at the 
election either by him or by his election agents and stated that they took all 
reasonable means of preventing the commission of any corrupt practice at the 
election and that his election is not liable to be set aside. 
( a ) Respondent No. I denied that the Article by MAKRAND was an appeal 

of the kind alleged in the petition . He denied that Mam Chand or 
Subhas Agarwal were his friends or that they actively supported him 
in the election , Respondent No. 1 denied that any meeting of his 
workers, supporters was held at the house of Mam Chand . Res 
pondent No. 1 denied that the Article in Malrashtra dated 18th 
February 1962 mentioned in paragraph 12 ( a ) of the petition was 
published with his consent. He stated that Mam Chand as far as 
he was aware was not even a member of the congress at the time of 
the election and that he never held any office in the congress 
organisation at any time. Respondent No. 1 further stated that the 
Mairashtra disowned the article contributed by MAKRAND in its 

issue of 19th February , 1962 . 
( b ) Respondent No. 1 stated that on information received by him after elec 

tlon , he learnt that the statements in Annexure B were published in 
the issue of Mairashtra as allçged . He asserted that he had no earlier 
knowledge of this publication nor has he any knowledge as to . 

whether the statements contained therein are false , 
( c ) Respondent No . 1 denied that the issue of Mairashtra referred to in the 

petition was distributed in any procession of the congress on any 
date. It was certainly not distributed in any procession in which this 

respondent participated . 
( d ) Respondent No. 1 stated that as far as he is aware no article of 

Mairashtra was read in any meeting having any connection with this 
respondent on any date in any locality of Meerut. The allegation 
that he made a reference to the front page of Mairashtra in any 

meeting was denied as false . 
( e ) Respondent No. 1 denied that he through his agents or supporters got 

reprinted the first page of the said Mairashtra or any other matter 
regarding Respondent No. 2 . He also denied that the original issue 
and the reprint mentioned in the petition were at any time issued as 
pamphlet of this respondent or that the issue of Mairashtra was at 
any time distributed anywhere in the constituency by or at the 

Instance of this Respondent. 
( f ) Respondent No. 1 denied that the reprints mentioned in paragraph 12 ( f ) 

of the petition constituted an election pamphlet. The reprints were 

neither published nor propagated within his knowledge . 
( g ) Respondent No. 1 denied that reprints were distributed by any of his 

workers or agents or by any person within his knowledge , 
( h ) Respondent No , 1 denied that he participated in any election meeting of 

the congress in Mecrut on the 21st February 1962. The allegation of 
distribution was denied as without foundation , 


( 1 ) Respondent No . 1 admitted that he went to the Jama Masjid Meerut on 

21st February 1962. He stated that he joined the prayers in the 
Jama Masjid on the above, date as it was a Friday . He emphatically 
denied that he made any appeal of any kind in the Jama Masjid or 
made any speech or any public utterances beyond participating in the 

prayers . 
He denied that he offered to pay the sum of Rs. 2 ,200 to the Jama Masjid . 
(1 ) Respondent No. 1 denied that any announcement was made from the 

car bearing No. USV 1715 . He stated that he was not aware of any 

incident of the beating by members of the Jatay community . 
11. ( a ) The Respondent No. 1 admitted that Khan Bahadur Mohammad Aijaz 
Husain is a prominent citizen of Meerut City and that he had fought in the pre 
vious election against the congress. He denied that K . B . Mohd. Aijaz Husain was 
promised a seat in the U . P . Legislative Council by the congress hierarchy . He 
stated that the allegation that promise was made to K . B . Aijaz Husain with the 
consent of this respondent has been made up for the purposes of this petition and 
is without any foundation . 

( b ) Respondent No . 1 denied the allegations made in paragraph 13 ( b ) of the 
petition . He stated that he was not aware of the reasons for deferring the 
selection of Panches of Nyaya Panchayats. He denied that any person voted for 
him as a result of any promise alleged in the petition , 

12 . Respondent No. 1 denied that he procured the services and assistance of 
Laxmi Narain and stated that he was not even aware that a vast number of 
voters were under the influence of the aforesaid Laxmi Narain . 

13 . Respondent No. 1 denied that the allegations made in paragraph 15 of the 
petition . He denied that any of his agents or supporters hired Rickshaws for 
taking the voters to the polling booths. He also denied that he procured any of 
the motor vehicles referred to in Schedule D for the said purpose or any tractors 
of the persons named in the petition were used in the election . 

14 . Respondent No . 1 pleaded that the petitioner and Respondent No . 2 have 
close relations with each other and are on very cordial terms and the petition 
has been filed at the instance and instigation of Respondent No. 2 who having 
lost the election has set up the petitioner for this gamble in litigation based upon 
false and incorrect grounds. 

15 . The entire life record of the Respondent and his record in this constituency , 
from which he has been elected to the Lok Sabha for the last ten years , will 
clearly show that this respondent, has not only not indulged in any communal 
propaganda or in any appeal on the ground of caste , community or religion , but 
has definitely set his foot against even the remotest action which may have a 
religious, communal or caste colour. In fact, his own views, in a speech made 
by him , have been reported in the very issue of Mairashtra which has been made 
the subject of complaint and will show the attitude that this Respondent has held 
and expressed throughout , 

16 . Though this Respondent had no connection of any kind with the paper 
“Mairashtra the various issues of that paper show that it was, on the whole , being 
. conducted on non - communal lines , and had a non - communal policy . The article 
of MAKRAND complained of, though the respondent had no knowledge about it, 
might have been due to some personal conflict or animosity and in any case this 
respondent had no connection with , and was wholly unaware of , the publication 
of this article . 

17 . This respondent has an unbroken record , in the past , of non - communal acti 
vities and it was not possible for him , as a candidate on behalf of the Indian 
- National Congress, to indulge in any communal propaganda and thereby lose the 
most valuable assets in his possession . The allegations in the petition to the con 
- trary ure without substance . 
18 . The following issues were framed on the above pleadings : 
1. ( a ) Whether Sri Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal were agents and 

supporters of Respondent No . 1 and whether they actively supported 

him in his election ? 
( b ) Whether the article in the local daily newspaper "Mairashtra 

( Annexure A ) was published on the 18th February 1982 with the 
consent of Respondent No. 1 ? 


( c ) Whether the contents of this article amount to corrupt practice 19 

mentioned in sub - section 3 or 3 ( A ) of section 123 of the Representa 
tion of People Act ? 


2 . ( a ) Whether the article in Malrashtra ( Annexure B ) contained false and 

defamatory statement regarding Shri Maharaj Singh Bharti. Reu 

pondent No. 27 
( b ) Whether the said issue of Mairashtra was distributed in large number 

in a procession of congress in Sadar and Lalkurti, Meerut on the 16th 

February 1982, and 
Whether Respondent No. 1 and Sri Mam Chand participated in the ane ? 
( 0 ) Whether this issue was also distributed in various Hindu Mohalla . 

mentioned in Schedule B of the Meerut City and Cantt. by congreso 
workers and supporters of Respondent No . 1 as alleged in para 12 ( c ) 
of the petitioni 


on 19th February 1902 in Kankerkhera , Latkurti and Top Chada , 

Meerut and 
( e ) Whether in the meetings of Lalkurti and Topkhana, Respondent No. 1 

himself was present and made & reference to the front page of tho 
above said article " knowing and believing the statement made thore 

under to be false and frivolous" ? 
( 1 ) Whether Respondent No. 1 committed corrupt practice as denned in 

sub - section ( 4 ) of section 123 of the Representation of People Act ? 


3 . ( a ) Whether Respondent No. 1 through his agents and supporter Shri 

Mam Chand and Shri Subhas Agarwal reprinted in large number the 

above said article on the 19th February 1962 (Annexure C ) ? 
(b ) Whether the original issue of Mairashtra and the reprints were issued 

as pamphlets by Respondent No. 1 and 
( c ) Whether he distributed the reprints and original issue of the said 

Majrashtra in the various villages of the constituency in Meerut City 
and Meerut Cantt. through his supporters and agents ? The names 

of such agents and workers are mentioned in Schedule C ? 
( d ) Whether the abovesaid reprints contained false and defamatory state 

ment regarding respondent No . 2 in relation to his personal character 
and 


Whether it was an election pamphlet of Respondent No. 1, as alleged by the 

petitioner ? 
Whether these acts were done with a view to prejudice the election prog 

pects of Respondent No. 2 ? 
fe ) Whether the abovesaid reprints were distributed with the consent of 

Respondent No . 1 in the procession of congress in large numbers on 
20th February 1962 in Meerut City by the workers mentioned in 

para 12 ( g ) of the petition ? 
Was Respondent No . 1 also present and participated ? 
(1 ) Whether the reprints were distributed in the election meeting of con 

gress in Meerut City on 21st February 1962 in Gujri Bazar and other 
places by the supporters of Respondent No. 1 , namely Shri Mam 
Chand , Bhagwat Azad and Subhas Agarwal ? and whether Respon 
dent No. 1 himself attended this meeting ? 


4 . ( a ) Whether on 23rd February 1982 when the polling was going on in 

Meerut City , the Respondent No . 1 went to the Jama Masjid , and there 
he appealed to the Muslim brotherhood to vote for him on the ground 

of religion ? 
Whether he also reminded the Muslim brotherhood of Meerut of the 

atrocities committed by the other communities during the recent com 
munal riots with special reference to the damages suffered by the 
mosques at Meerut ? 


( b ) Whether Respondent No. 1 also offered to pay Rs. 2 , 200 to the 

Masjid through Sri Mufti Abdul Khalig , Municipal Commiss 
Meerut for the loss, destruction and damage done to the Jama 
in the recent communal riots ? 


5 . Whether on the night of 21st February 1962, Respondent No. 1 in a 

congress car No. USV 1715 got a false and defamatory announcement 
against Respondent No. 2 that Respondent No. 2 is a Jat and his com 
munity people have beaten members of the Jatay community and 
therefore the whole of Jatav community should vote against Shri 
Maharaj Singh Bharti, who is a Jat? The above announcement 
promoted feelings between different classes of people on the basis of 
the caste ? 


8 . Whether Khan Bahadur Mohammad Aijaz Husain was a prospective 

candidate against Congress in the general election in question ? 
Whether he was promised by congress hierarchy namely Shri Hafiz Mohd , 

Ibrahim , Shri C . B . Gupta and Ch . Charan Singh with the consent 
of Respondent No . 1 a seat in the U . P . Legislative Council and a 
gumptuous loan and grant from the Government with the object of 
Inducing him not to stand in the General Elections against the con - 
gress and vote and induce others under his influence to vote for 
Respondent No. 1 and other congress candidates of the Assembly 

constituencies ? 
Whether in view of the promise and inducement Khan Bahadur Aijaz 

Husain voted and supported Respondent No. 1 ? 
Whether the above act amounted to corrupt practice of bribery as defined 

in section 123 ( 1) of the Representation of People Act ? 
7 . Whether Respondent No. I and his supporters namely Sri Basant Lal, 

Sri Hari Singh and Km . Sharda Devi induced Sri Ghasi Ram of 
village Dabka, Rajgir of village Pooth , Shiv Datt Shastri of village 
Machhra , Raj Singh of village Kurall, Imtiyaz All of village Murllpur 
to vote and support the congress candidate in the election in consi 
deration of promises for getting them selected Panches by the Selection 

Body ? 
8 . ( a ) Whether the Respondent No. 1 procured the services and assistance 

of Laxmi Narain for getting a vast number of votes under his influence 

for the furtherance of the prospects of his election ? 
( b ) Whether Laxmi Narain was and is working as Sarpanch of the Nyaya 

Panchayat Arnawall ? 
Whether the above act of Respondent No. 1 comes within the purview of 

section 129 ( 7 ) of the Representation of People Act ? 
9. (a ) Whether Capt. H . R . Anand, Hakim Saifuddin and Sardar Hari Dutt 

Singh were agents of Respondent No. 17 
( b ) Whether Respondent No . 1 and his agents named above with his con 

sent hired Rickshaws in Meerut City and Cantonment for bringing 

the voters from their houses to the polling booths ? 
( c ) Whether Respondent No. 1, his agents and supporters with his consent 

procured cars from contractors and friends of Delhi ( Schedule B ) for 

the above said purpose ? 
( d ) Whether in some village Respondent No. 1 procured tractors of Sri 

Chhote Lal of Sheolal and Sri Niadar Singh of Rasna for the con 
veyance of the electors to and from the polling stations on the polling 

day ? 
Whether the above acts of Respondent No. 1 come within the definition of 

corrupt practice as defined in section 123 ( 5 ) of the Representation of 

People Act ? 
10 . Whether the election of Respondent No. 1 from 81 -Meerut Lok Sabha 

Constituency is liable to be set aside ? 
19 . Before considering the charges of corrupt practice levelled against Res 
pondent No. 1 , I would like to make some observations pertinent to the case , 


Słc. Sfli)] 


70 . 


AB, 


4853 


The charges of corrupt practice in the clection petition have been bodily lifted 
out of the Representation of the People Act and nearly all the corrupt practices 
as defined in section 123 ibid have been incorporated in the petition . Out of the 
eight forms of corrupt practices mentioned in the section , only those under section 
123 ( 2 ) and 123 ( 6 ) have been omitted . All the other corrupt practices, namely of 
bribery under section 123 ( 1 ) , appeal on the ground of religion , caste or community 
under section 123 ( 3 ) , promotion of feelings of enmity or hatred between different 
classes of the citizens of India on ground of religion , caste and race under section 
123 ( 3A ) , publication of any statement of fact which is false relating to the personal 
character and conduct of any candidate under section 123 ( 4 ) , hiring and procuring 
of vehicles for conveyance of voters under section 123 ( 5 ) and obtaining or pro 
curing assistance from the persons in the service of Government under section 
123 ( 7 ) have been alleged and included in the petition . 

20. At the final hearing, the allegation of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 1 ) 
covered by Issue Nos. 6 and 7 , corrupt practice under section 123 ( 5 ) covered by 
Issue No. 9 and corrupt practice under section 123 ( 7 ) covered by Issue No. 8 were 
given up by the counsel for the petitioner , mainly because no evidence was led by 
the petitioner in support of the above allegations. 


21. Main allcgations in the petition that remain for decision centre round the 
alleged appeals on the ground of religion or caste , the promotion of feelings of 
enmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of India and the publica 
tion of false statements relating to the personal character and conduct of Maharaj 
Singh Bharti Respondent No. 2 , who was a rival candidate set up by the Socialist 
party against Respondent No. 1 a candidate nominated by the Indian National 
Congress for the Parliamentary Seat from 81 -Meerut Lok Sabha Constituency . 
Respondent No. 1 was declared elected by an overwhelming majority of 45, 040 
votes . Lastly that on the night of 21st February 1962 Respondent No. 1 got a false 
announcement made from a congress car No. USV 1715 to the effect that Respon 
dent No. 2 is a Jat and his community have beaten members of the Jatav com 
munity and therefore, the whole of Jatay community should vote against 
Respondent No. 2 . The enquiry in the election petition is thus confined within a 
narrow campass , that is allegations of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) , 
123 ( 3A ) and 123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of People Act, covered by Issues I to 


22 . Allegations in respect of the first charge of corrupt practice under section 
123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of People Act are made in paragraph 12 ( 1 ) of the 
petition as follows: 
" That the Respondent No . 1 on 23rd February 1982 when polling was going 

on in Meerut City went to the Jama Masjid , Meerut, and there he 
appealed to the Muslim brotherhood to vote for him on grounds of 
religion . He also reminded the Muslim brotherhood of Meerut of 
the atrocities committed by the other communities during the recent 
communal riots with special reference to the damages suffered by 
the mosques at Meerut. Shri Shah Nawaz Khan , Respondent No. 1 , 
also offered to pay a substantial sum of Rs. 2 ,200 to the management 
of Jama Masjid through Sri Mufti Abdul Khalik , Municipal Com 
missioner, Meerut for the loss , destruction and damage done to the 

Jama Masjid in the recent communal riots " . 
23. Allegations of corrupt practice under section 123 (3A ) of the Representa 
tion of People Act are made in paragraph 12 ( a ) and 12 ( 1) of the petition . It 
refers to an article published in the local daily newspaper " MAIRASHTRA ” dated 
18th February 1962 under the name of MAKRAND . Mam Chand (RW . 31 ) is the 
Editor of this local daily newspaper "MAIRASHTRA " and one Subhas Agarwal 
was its sub - editor . The article by MAKRAND is reproduced in Annexure A of 
the petition . It is alleged that the publication in the MAIRASHTRA , dated 18th 
February 1962, were at the instance of Respondent No. 1 and the newspapers were 
distributed by his workers , agents or supporters with his consent. 

24 . The allegation of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Representa 
tion of People Act is contained in , paragraph 12 ( b ) of the petition . It is alleged 
that the local daily newspaper " MAIRASHTRA " dated 18th February 1962 also 
published an article containing false statement of facts in relation to the personal 
Character and conduct of Maharaj Singh Bharti Respondent No. 2 . This article is 
reproduced in Annexure B attached to the petition . It is further alleged that 
copies of MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 containing the above article 
were distributed in the constituency and further that Respondent No. 1 got the 
issue of MAIRASHTRA , dated 18th February 1962 reprinted and distributed as his 
election pamphlets . 


4854 


B. . 


. 


5, 


25 . Section 100 of the Representation of People Act lays down the grounds 
for declaring the election to bę void . 
The relevant sub -section of Section 100 are given below : 
" ( b ) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate 

or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a 

returned candidate or his election agent; or 
(d ) that the result of the election , in so far as it concerns a returned candi 

date , has been materially affected 
( ii ) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned 

candidate (by an agent other than his election agent) ." 


20. No allegation has been made in the petition that the result of the election 
wag materially affected by any corrupt practice, nor has any evidence been led to 
that effect . 


been alleged in the petition that he had any election agent. 

27 . The controversy , therefore , centres round the question whether the above 
mentioned corrupt practices , as alleged , were committed directly by Respondent 
No. I himself or whether they were committed by his workers , agents or supporters 
with his consent. There is no allegation in the petition that Respondent No. 1 hia 
self got the mischievous articles published in the daily local newspapers 
MAIRASHTRA , dated 18th February 1962 or that he himself distributed them in 
the constituency . The petitioner has, therefore, to prove that there was publica 
tion and distribution as alleged by him by workers , agents or supporters of Res 
pondent No. 1 and further that this was done with the consent of Respondent No, 1 . 


FINDINGS 


28. 


No, No. 
No . 


No. 


No. 


Issue No . 1 ( a ) 
Issue No. 1 ( b ) --- 
Issue No . 1 ( c ) -- 
Issue No. 2 ( a ) — 
Issue No. 2 ( b ) 
Tssue No. 20) 
Issue No. 2 ( d ) 
Issue No. 2 ( e ) 
Issue No. 2 ( f ) 
Issue No. 3 ( a ) . 
Issue No. 3 (b ) 
Issue No. 3 ( 0 ) 
Issue No. 3 ( d ) — 
Issue No . 3 ( e ) -- 


No. 


No. 


Issue No . 3 ( f ) -- 
Issue No. 4 ( a ) 


No. 
No, No, No. 
No . Respondent No. 1 was in the 
procession . No MAIRASHTRA was 
distributed . 
No. Respondent No. 1 did not attend . 
Respondent No. 1 went to Jama 
Masjid on 23rd February 1962 to say 
his prayers, 
He did not make any appeal to 
Muslims to vote for him on ground of 
religion , 


No . 


Second part of Issue No. 4 ( a ) - No . 
Issue No. 4 ( b ) — 
Issue No . 5 — . 

No. 
Issue Nos, 6 , 7 , 8 ( a ) and 8 ( b ) 

Findings on these issues — No. 
Issue Nos , 9 ( a ), ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) — 

Findings on these issues — No. 
Issue No. 10 

No. 
29 . Reasons for the findings on Issues Nos, 1 to 5 . 
19ue No . 1 ( a ) 

It is not disputed that Mam Chand ( R . W .31) is the Editor of the local daily 
newspaper MARASHTRA and that Subhas Agarwal was the sub - editor. 
Petitioner has Aled MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 ( Ex , P . 2 ) , dated 20th 


4855 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


Lisu 


- 


. 


- 


- - - - - - 


Ste 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1984 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 
Av . 
February 1962 ( Ex . P . 1 ) and dated 20th February 1962 ( Ex. P . 3 and P .4 ) said to be 
reprints . The offending articles have been published in the above newspapers to 
which reference will be made later . The allçgations in paragraph 12 ( a ) are : 
( 1 ) Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal are friends of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan , 

(Respondent No. 1) ; 
( 2 ) Meetings of workers Dr. Madan , Sri Shanta Ram Dunge, Dr. Nizamuddin , 

Jagdish Saran Rastogi, amongst others supporting Respondent No . 1 

in the election were held at the house of Mam Chand . 
(Note - Names of Dr. Madan , Shanta Ram Dunge , Dr. Nizamuddin , Jagdish 

Saran Rastogi were added by an amendment of the petition ). 
( 3 ) Mam Chand was an important organiser of the election campaign of 

Respondent No. 1 and an important personality in the congress 

organisation at Meerut. 
( 4 ) Mam Chand canvassed vigorously for Respondent No. 1 and other con 

gress candidates personally and through his paper MAIRASHTRA 

and attended workers and public meetings. 
(5 ) Mam Chand was also polling agent of Jagdish Saran Rastogi, a congress 

candidate of the Assembly . 
Note - This fact is not disputed . ] 
30 . Petitioner has examined himself as P . W . 13 and has also examined Maharaj 
Singh Bharti ( Respondent No. 2 ) as P . W . 15 . The petitioner has not stated in 
his examination - chief that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal were agents of Res 
pondent No. 1, Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) merely says that Mam Chand is 
a friend of Respondent No . 1 and that he is a supporter and active member of 
Congress. It will be clear from the cross - examination of the above named witnes 
ses that they have no personal knowledge whether Mam Chand or Subhas Agar 
wal were even - / 4 / - annas member of the congress . They are unable to say what 
otice these two persons held in the congress . The petitioner evidently had no 
occasion to get acquainted with Mam Chand except that both are political wor 
kers . About Subhas Agarwal he says that they are common friends in Mohalla 


him . 


The above evidence is too meagre to support the petitioncr s allegation that 
Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal are friends of Respondent No. 1 . 


31, The petitioner verified the allegations in paragraph 12 ( a ) of the petition 
to be true to his personal knowledge, but in his cross -examination he stated that 
he could not say how many meetings Mam Chand attended . He admitted thrat 
the statement in paragraph 12 ( a ) that " Mam Chand attended workers meeting" 
was not in his personal knowledge and he could not justify the statement in the 
verification and in the affidavit that the allegations contained in paragraph 12 ( a ) 
were from his personal knowledge, 


In paragraph 33 of his cross - examination , the petitioner admits that he did not 
attend meetings of the workers of Respondent No . 1 mentioned in para 12 ( a ) of 
his petition . He could not say the exact number of public meetings in which 
Mam Chand and the workers of Respondent No. 1 had attended in connection 
with the election . He only attended one public meeting mentioned in paragraph 
12 ( h ) of the petition and another held in Gujrl- bazar on 21st February 1962, 
Besides this, he did not attend any other public meetings in connection with the 
election of Respondent No. 1 . 


I find that he made a false verification as well as swore a false affidavit in 
respect of the allegations in paragraph 12 ( a ) of the petition . 


In attempting to prove his allegations made therein the petitioner by swear 
ing a false affidavit has rendered himself liable to a graver charge. He has failed 
to show that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal were friends of Respondent No. 
1 or that they had supported him in the election , 


32. A criminal complaint has been filed by Respondent No. 2 against Mam 
Chand. Subhas Agarwal and Makrand . A Civil Suit No. 28 of 1963 was also fled 


these proceedings, it has been alleged that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal 


4856 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


were agents of Respondent No . 1 , Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) in his crogs 
examination has admitted only after being confronted with copy of complaint 
and plaint that no such allegation had been made by him . ( See para 56 of P . W . 
16 ) . 


33. Mam Chand ( R . W . 31 ) has denied that he was agert of Respondent No . 1 . 
He stated that he did not canvass for Respondent No. 1 nor did he support him 
or worked with him nor was any meeting held at his house, nor 
he nor Subhas Agarwal were members of Congress. On the other 
hand , he says that Subhas Agarwal was a member of R . S . S . and that in the 
last election he had supported the Jan Sangh candidate . There is no suggestion 
in the cross - examination of Mam Chand ( R . W .31 ) that he or Subhas Agarwal 
were agents of Respondent No. 1, 

Sri Shah Nawaz Khan ( R . W . 32 ) has denied that Mam Chand canvassed for 
him . He stated that he had never seen Subhas Agarwal. There is nothing to 
suggest in his cross - examination that Mam Chand or Subhas Agarwal were his 
agents . 

34. It was urged on behalf of the petitioner that the issues of MAIRASHTRA 
( Ex . P . 1 , P .4 , P . 8 , P . 16 to P . 21, P . 26 , P . 32 to P . 35 ) would show that this daily local 
newspaper MAIRASHTRA was doing election propaganda for the congress and 
Respondent No. 1 as his photo and life sketch also appeared in them , 

There is no substance in the above contention as Mam Chand ( R .W . 31 ) has 
stated that he had also published the life sketch of Jan Sangh and independent 
candidates . News item about P . S . P . candidate was also published . Mam Chand 
( R . W .31 ) has stated that he reccived advertisements from the Post and Tele 
graphs, Planning and other Departments of the Government of India and ho re 
ceived only one advertisement from the Railway in the end of January 1962. 

The local daily newspaper MAIRASHTRA is a pro -congress paper no doubt, 
but it is not an organ of the congress . No inference can be drawn from the sup 


agent of Respondent No . 1 or worked for him in the last election , 

The petitioner has failed to show that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal were 
friends of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan , Respondent No . 1 or that they actively support 
ed him in the last election . 

The petitioner has also failed to show that meetings of workers supporting 
Respondent No . 1 in his election were held at the house of Mam Chand or that 
Mam Chand was an organiser of the election campaign of Respondent No . 1 , 

35 . A passing reference may be made to the three photographs filed by Maharaj 
Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) , when he was being cross - examined . He says he filed 
them at the instance of Hari Raj Singh (Petitioner ) . No satisfactory reason has 


says he obtained these photographs from Dr. Madan Mohan , who told 
him that they were taken in a public meeting . He could give no explanation 
how he managed to secure , these photographs from Dr. Madan Mohan , who is 
alleged by the petitioner to be the worker of Respondent No . 1 ( vide para 12 ( a ) of 
the petition ]. 

It is really strange why Dr. Madan Mohan would go out of his way to help 
Respondent No. 2 a rival candidate . The petitioner has not exainined Dr, Madan 
Mohan to show that these photographs were taken at the time of the alleged 
meeting of workers and supporters of Respondent No. 1. Respondent No . 2 ( P . W . 
15 ) has no personal knowledge of the fact that the photographs Nos, 1 and 2 were 
taken at the time of the public meeting , nor has he any personal knowledge of the 
date on which these persons had assembled in the meeting, neither could he say 
that all the persons who appear in the photograph are friends and supporters 
of Sri Shalt Nawaz Khan . He has no personal knowledge of the date or the occa 
sion on which photograph No. 3 way taken or the place where it was taken . Again , 


At Home after the election . 

Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) admits that at times he also invites members 
of rival political parties on occasions of rejoicing ( vide paras 22 , 23, 24 of the 
cross - examination of P . W . 15 ) . 

In my opinion , these photographs prove nothing. 

36 . Issue No . 1 (6 ) .- Petitioner in para 68 of his deposition admits that he has 
no personal knowledge of the fact that the article was published with the consent 


src + (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1880 


4857 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


of Respondent No. 1 . It was only his inference that the article was so published , 
as alleged in para 12 ( a ) of the petition . There is no averment in the statement 
of Respondent No. 2 ( P . W . 15 ) that the article in the MAIRASHTRA were pub 
Lished with the consent of Respondent No . 1, 

The mere fact that Mam Chand was a polling agent of Jagdish Saran Rastogi, 
a Congress candidate for the Assembly Seat or the fact that Respondent No . 1 
related upon the cooperation of M .L .As., would not go to show that the mischie 
vous articles were published by Mam Chand with the consent of Respondent 
No. 1 . 

37 . Mam Chand ( R . W . 31 ) has in the very next issue of MAIRASHTRA dated 
19th February 1962 (Ex . R .3 ) , disassociated numself with this article by MAKRAND . 
This is admitted by the petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) . 

Mam Chand ( R . W .31) has also mentioned in the course of his evidence that 
he contradicted this article giving reasons for doing so . Moreover, Sri Shah 
Nawaz Khan (RW . 32 ) has clearly stated that Gujars were in majority in one of 
the segments in the constituency . In Meerut district there were three Jat candi 
dates and one Gujar candidate nominated by the Congress for the Assembly seg 
ment of Respondent No. 1 , The majority of witnesses of Respondent No. 1 and 
his workers were Jats and Gujars . 

It is clear that Sri Shah Nawaz Khan would not possibly gain anything by 
such a propaganda as has been attributed to the article by MAKRAND . It is dit 
cult to believe that Respondent No . 1 , under the above circumstances, would have 
consented to such an article published inder the name of MAKRAND in the 
MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 , 

38 . Ex, R . 2 is a copy of the complaint filed by Responúcnt No . 2 against Mam 
Chand and Subhas Agarwal on the basis of the impugned article by MAKRAND 
appearing in MAIRASHTRA . There is no allegation in this complaint that these 
articles were published with the consent of Respondent No. 1 , ncither there is 
any such averment in the plaint Ex . P . 11 Aled by Respondent No . 2 against Mam 
Chand and Subhas Agarwal for damages for publishing these articles . 

39. In para 12 ( a ) of the petition , it is alleged that the offending article was 
published by one MAKRAND indicating that MAKRAND was a distinct indivi 
dual who contributed the article . The petitioner (DW . 13 ) in the witness - box 
has taken a different stand . He stated that MAKRAID was the pen - name of 
Mam Chand Mittal. This , he says, he learnt after Aling the petition from a state 
ment made in an application Ex . P . 8 in a criminal complaint that MAKRAND 
was the pen -name of Mam Chand . He says he learnt this also from the order 
Ex , P .9 of the Court on that application . But when he was confronted with the 
certified copy of the complaint, he had to admit thut there is no statement in Court 
that MAKRAND is the pen name of Mam Chand (See para 45 of his cross -exo 
mination ) . The order of the Magistrate also does not support the petitioner s 
contention that MAKRAND was the pen -name of Mam Chand . 

Respondent No. 2 ( P . W . 15 ) who is mainly concerned with the criminal com 
plaint referred to by the petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) , admits in para 15 of his cross 
examination that he has no personal knowledge of the fact that MAKRAND wag 
the pen -name of Mam Chand . From Para 56 of his cross -examination , it is 
abundantly clear that there was no decision by the Magistrate concerned to the 
effect that MAKRAND was the pen -name of Mam Chand Mittal. Mam Chand 
( R . W .31) has denied that MAKRAND was his pen - nanie . 

40 . There is no evidence on record to show that the article in the local daily 
newspaper MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 Annexure A was published 
with the consent of Respondent No. 1. When P . W . 15 was asked in cross - examina 
tion whether in his complaint he had alleged that the article in question in 
MAIRASHTRA had been published at the instance or at the connivarce or with the 
consent of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan , he gave an evasive reply that he did not re 
member . Ex . R . 2 is the copy of the complaint. There is no allegation that the 
article was published by Mam Chand with the consent of Respondent No 1. 

41. In his suit for damages Aled against Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal (Civil 
Suit No, 26 of 1963 ) he made no allegation that the article were published with the 
consent of Respondent No. 1 . 

It has been held by a Division Bench of Rajasthan High Court in Krishna Kumar 
Vs. Krishna Gopal - A . I.R . 1964 Rajasthan 21, as follows : 
" The approval or consent of the candidate to a corrupt practice committed 

by the agent to promote his election prospects is not implied ; nor 18 
there any presumption , either of law or fact that such an act is done 


4858 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1886 [ PART II -- 

-SE 
at the instance of or with the express or implied consent of the candi 
date . The drawing of such presumption would be repugnant to the 
well -established rule of practice that such proceedings are quasi 
criminal in nature" , 


it 


in Nant Gopal Swami Vs. Abdul Hamid Choudhury and another— 19 E .LR. 175 , 
48 been held as followe: 
" Ir an offending article appears in a paper, which is proved to have circula 

tion and is read by the public, this would be sufficient publication in 
the eye of law to constitute corrupt practice within the meaning of the 
Act, provided it is also found that the said publication was at the 
Instance , or with the consent, of the candidate or his Election Agont. 
The real point of the decision in Maulana Abdul Jalil Choudhury V . 
Rathindra Nath Sen ( 13 EL . R . 290 ) was that the publication must be 
proved to be with the consent of the candidate . 


In order to fasten the lability of the edftor s act on a candidate , it is neces 

mary to establish that the editor was acting as an agent of the candidate 
In connection with the election and that too , with his consent. More 
action of the editor beneficial to the candidate would not be enough to 
prove that he was acting as an agent in connection with the candidate s 
election ; further it should also be proved that he was doing the alleged 

act with the consent of the candidate " . 
The petitioner has failed to prove the allegation that the articles appearing in 
local daily newspaper MAIRASHTRA by MAKRAND was published with the con 
sent of Respondent No. 1 . A mere reading of the article by MAKRAND in 
MAIRASHTRA (Ex. P . 2 ) would show that it could not have been published at the 
instance of or with the consent of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No. 1. In this 
very issue of MAIRASHTRA , there is a report of the speech made by Respondent 
No . 1 , in which he appealed to Hindus and Muslims not to be influenced by com 
munal considerations. This is admitted by the petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) and also by 
Respondent No. 2 Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) that such an appeal was made by 
Respondent No. 1 . The publication of this speech was also proved by Mam Chand 
( R . W . 31 ). 


42 . 188ue No. 1 (c ). — The mischievous article by MAKRAND appearing in 
MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 is under the caption "Maharaj Singh 
Bharti Hindu nahin Mahmood Ghaznavi bal" . In this article , there is no appeal to 
vote or refrain from voting on the ground of religion . 

The passage beginning with the words — " Apne Mandir Masjid ya Girja " and 
ending with the words " Votę do " is not an appeal on the ground of religion , but it 
is an appeal to the religious minded people to have their religious institutiong. 
However the concluding paragraph of this article beginning with the words " Unko 
is durbyohar and ending with the words " Parantu Hindu dharm ko mita kar" 
amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3A ) of the Represen 
tation of People Act. 


43. Issue No . 2 ( 2 ). — The petitioner has alleged in para 12 (b ) of his petition that 
the issue of MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962, besides the above article of 
MAKRAND contained false and defamatory statement regarding Maharaj Singh 
Bharti, Respondent No. 2 on its front page. It contained nothing else but false and 
defamatory statement regarding Respondent No , 2 . The contents of the article are 
given in Annexure B , 
44 . Section 123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of People Act lays down that : 
" The publication by a candidate or his agent or any other person , (with the 

consent of a candidate or his election agent) of any statement of fact 
which is false, and which he either believes to be false or does not 
believe to be true, in relation to the personal character or conduct of 
any candidate , or in relation to the candidature , or withdrawal, of any 
candidate , being a statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the 

prospects of that candidate s election " . . . 
The word " defamatory " has not been used in the section . Therefore, mere 
defamatory statement against a candidate will not amount to a corrupt practice . 


45. The petitioner has verified the allegations in para 12 (b ) of his petition as 
true to his personal knowledge, but it is clear from the nature of his cross - examina 
Hon that he could have no personal knowledge about the falsity or truth of the 


SEC , 3(11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 8 , 1886 4859 
- - - - 

- - - 
allegations relating to the personal conduct or character of Respondent No. 2 pula 
Hshed in the MAIRASHTRA . The allegations are that Respondent No. 2 has em 
bezzled school funds and misappropriated building materials during his manager 
ship . He has made merely a bald statement in para 4 of his evidence that the 
ellegations against Maharaj Singh Bharti contained in these papers were false . 


46 . Initial burden of proving that these allegations in MAIRASHTRA dated 18H 
Fobruary 1962 reproduced in Annexure B were false lay on the petitioner , 

In Bishwanath Upadhya Vs. Haralal Dae and others - 16 E .L . R . 405, It has been 
hold as follows: - - 
" The burden of proving that the statements contained in an article are false 

lies on the petitioner , Where the petition is based on the ground that 
talge allegations have been made in şelation to the conduct of the 
petitioner as a candidate which amount to corrupt practice , the peti 
tioner should deny on oath the truth of the allegations made againgt 
him and his failure to do 80 may give rise to a presumption against 


him ." 


In Sardar Gurbaksh Singh V8. Gurdial Singh and another - A . I.R . 1927 P . C . 230 , 
It has been held as follows : 
“ The practice of not calling the party as witness with a view to force the other 

party to call him , and so suffer the discomfiture of having him treated 
as his ( the other party s ) own witness is a bad and degrading practice, 
32 Ald , 104 ( P . C .) Ref . The true object to be achieved Court of Justico 
can only be furthered with propriety by the testimony of the party who 
personally knowing the whole circumstances of the case can dispel the 
suspicions attaching to it . The story can then be subjected in all its 
particulars to cross -examination " . 
See also A .I. R . 1954 Patna 280 


In Karnal Distillery Co. Ltd . and others V . Ladli Parshad Jaiswal and another 
A .I. R . 1958 Punjab 190 , it has been held as follows: 
" It is the bounden duty of a party personally knowing the facts and circums 

tances of the case , to give evidence , and to submit to cross - examination . 
Courts have rightly drawn a presumption against the party avoiding 
the witness -box , and not submitting himself to cross- examination . The 
party who does not enter the witness -box runs a great risk of a pre 
sumption being drawn against him ." 


47 . The petitioner has examined Respondent No , 2 Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 
15 ). He has stated in his examination - in -chief that all the statements given out by 
Mittal (meaning Mam Chand) in his newspaper were all false relating to his per 
sonal character and conduct. He has further stated that the allegations of his 
having embezzled school money during his Managership of the School were all false . 
(See paras 5 and 6 of his deposition ) . 

He has admitted that he was Manager of the Mahatma Gandhi Smarak Higher 
Secondary School, Arnawali from 1954 till 5th January 1958, except that he did not 
do any work in the School in July 1957, as he was in Jail then . 

48. The impugned article in the MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 (Ex . 
P , 2 ) was published under the caption " SAMAJWAD KE NAM PAR BHRASHTA 
CHAR KA KHULA SHADYANTRA - MAHARAJ SINGH BHARTI KE KALE 
KARNAMON KA BHANDAPHOR " . 

Besides, reproducing a portion of the Audit Report of 1957 -58 , the article men 
tions that Maharaj Singh Bharti has embezzled school funds and misappropriated 
building materials of the school for his own use or sold them in black -market ] . 
( 1 ) The Arst item is regarding 36 cart- loads of coal, 400 bags of cement, sold 

in the black -market belonging to the School and embezzlement of an 
amount of Rs. 9 , 386 / - utilised from subscription by Respondent No. 2 . 
It is alleged that the cement was utilised by Respondent No. 2 for the 

construction of his house , 
(2) The second item is regarding embezzlement of the Government grant 

given to the School, 


1860 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5 , 1886 (Part 11 


( 3 ) The third item is in respect of the embezzlement of Rs. 1,400 / - Rs. 500 / -, 

Rs. 89 / 12 / 9 and Rs, 80 / 3 / 
( 4 ) The fourth item is in respect of gift of lands to the School of which 

Respondent No . 2 had promised to give 9 bighas land and one room 
to the institution , Ultimately , he gave only 2 bighas land but all the 
income therefrom is alleged to have been misappropriated by him , 


49 . Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) was cross - examined at length in respect of 
the transactions pertaining to the School (Mahatma Gandhi Smarak Higher Secon 
dary School Arnawali) during his Managership from the year 1954 till 5th January 
1957 . Details of his statement relevant for the determination of this issue are 
contained in paragraphs 25 to 53 of his cross- examination , 

50 . In paragraph 25 of his cross -examination , Maharaj Singh Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) 
refers to an endowment of 32 acres of his land made by him to the School. He 
says that this document was registered in 1951, of which he is the sole executant. 
This document has not been produced ( see also para. 3 of the Audit Report Ex , R . 1) . 
He says that he does not know whether the name of the School was mutated in 
respect of these lands in the Revenue papers , but maintains that compensation for 
this land was entered in the name of the School atter the abolition of Zamindari , 
and still feigns ignorance whether the School authorities are in possession of this 
land. 


In para . 26 , he admits that these lands were in possession of tenants even at 
the time of endowment and he had to recover rent from these tenants . He could 
not say if the School received the rent of the land in any year. He had to admit 
that during the period of his Managership , no Income of this land was entered in 
the account-books of the School, He further says that after the abolition of Zamin 
dari the compensation bonds were returned in the name of the School, but could 
not say whether the instalments in respect of the compensation of these lands were 
realised by the Executive Committee during his Managership . Ilę did not even 
care to see the compensation bonds during his Managership nor did he try to and 
out in whose possession they were . From his evasive replies, the only inference 
that can be drawn is that the endowment, if at all , to the School was in name only 
and he misappropriated the income thereof during his Managership . 


51. He has asserted that he did not construct any part of the School building 
during his Managership but in this he is contradicted by Bhagirath Singh ( P . W , 11 ), 
a witness examined by the petitioner , Bhagirath Singh ( P . W . 11) has stated that 
Respondent No. 2 got the building of the School constructed . Respondent No. 2 is 
obviously telling lles when he says that he did not construct any part of the School 
building during his Managership . 


52, He admits that coal- dust was indented for the School, but he could not say 
the quantity . At Arst , he evaded the question whether he had made any application 
for the coal-dust, but when he was confronted with the application (Ex , R . 16) , ho 
had to admit that it bears his signature, and that coal-dust was requisitioned for 
building purposes . 


He had to admit that another application for coal-dust for a period January to 
June 1955 for the construction was made (Vide Ex . R . 17 ) . He says that the School 
had no brick -kiln and the estimate for the construction was for 50 lakhs of bricks. 
He says that coal-dụst was given to other brick -kiln owners for purchasing bricks 
from them . It will be clear from Ex . R . 16 ( Photostat copy) that the estimate for 
construction was in respect of 12 class - rooms, Teachers quarters, 20 rooms of 
Hostels , one Hall, In Ex . R . 17 ( Photostat copy ) the estimate was for 10 class rooms, 
10 quarters and one Hall . The total estimate for construction was of 24 class rooms, 
10 quarters , 20 rooms for Hostel and 2 Halls for which the coal-dust mentioned in 
these two applications was required . 

Maharaj Singh Bharti has stated that when he took over charge, the Principal s 
residence and the hostel were complete and during his Managership only 3 rooms 
and 2 rooms without roots were completed . There is no explanation as to what 
happenent to the coal- dust for so many rooms and building specified in Ex . R . 18 and 
R . 17 . He admits that it was his duty to make enquiry . 


53 . In para 48 of his cross -examination , he admits that cement for the construc 
tion of the building was received . When questioned about the quantity of cement 
recelved , he gives an evasive reply . He could not say if the committee received 22 
tons of cement during his Managership in 1955 - 58 . 


- - - 


Suc. 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 4861 
= 

- - - - -- - - - -- - - - -- 
54. In para 45 of his cross -examination , he admits that during his Managership , 
the total subscription for the School was from collections from Swang which 
amounted to Rs. 8 , 000 / -; about Rs. 1 ,500 / - to Rs. 2 ,000 / - were the expenses. No 
explanation has been given by him as to what happened to this amount received : 
from the Swang . Though he admits that the subscriptions obtained from the 
Swang must have been registered in the cash -book of the year 1954 - 55 , he could 
not say if the Government auditors had access to this cash -book , neither could he 
say whether the auditors were able to scrutinise the cash -book for the purpose of 
audit. When he was confronted with para 5 of the Audit Report (Ex . R . 1 ) he 
stated that it refers to the account of the year 1955 -56 and 1956 - 57 . These account 
books have not been produced for audit. They were of the years during which 
Maharaj Singh Bharti was the Manager of the School, According to the Audit 
Report , misappropriation and embezzlement was evident. In the account book and 
the cash - book a nil opening balance was shown in November 1958 , Maharaj Singh 
Bharti ( P . W . 15 ) attempted to avoid his responsibility by saying that it was by a 
resolution of the Committee , which authorised the opening of the new account, as 
there was a new Principal and Manager , There is no truth in the above explana 
tion as Respondent No . 2 was continuing as Manager . No proceeding book of the 
School has been Aled in support of this explanation . The remark in the audit report 
is correct. Relevant portion from para 5 (b ) of the Audit Report ( Ex . R . 1) was 
published in the MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 (Ex. P . 2 ). 


55 . Respondent No. 2 in para 39 . of his cross -examination has admitted that he 
signed the receipt dated 8th March 1956 for Rs. 400 / - for selling his Rahat to the 
School. This amount he reccived from the Agricultural Extension Committee of the 
School. Direct question was put to him in respect of the receipt of the sum of 
Es, 400 / - for the Rahat and Rs, 500 / - for the bullocks, He gave evasive replies . 
He could not say if these amounts were received as Government grant during hia 
Managership . 


From the photostat of the receipt dated 8th March 1956 ( Ex , R . 11) , it is clear 
that Maharaj Singh Bharti Respondent No . 2 received the sum of Rs. 400 / - for the 
Rahat. It is also clear from the letter ( Ex , R . 15 ), the date of which has been 
scored out, that bullocks were purchased out of the grant received from the District 
Inspector s Schools office Meerut. The bullocks were purchased from a member of 
the Management Committee of the School, but were allowed to remain in his posses 
sion . The reason given was that there was no proper arrangement of keeping the 
bullocks in the School. But when the Extension guide visited the School, neither 
the bullock nor the Rahat were found at the farm (See report Ex , R , 5 ) . 


It can safely be inferred from the above that Maharaj Singh Bharti Respondent 
No. 2 misappropriated the grant of Rs. 400 for Rahat and Rs. 500 for the bullocks 
though , in fact, the Rahat and the bullocks were not handed over to the School, 


56 . Maharaj Singh Bharti, in para 53 of his cross -examination refers to the in 
come from 9 Bigha of land which he says he had gifted to the School. 


The caption " Nimnlikhit sajjano ne bhumi Dan ki" from MAIRASHTRA dated 
18th February , 1962 , was shown to the witness . He adr ts that this was from a 
portion of a booklet which has been published containing the list of subscribers who 
subscribed through Swang . He says that it was wrongly stated that the three per 
sons including himselt had made a gift of land on that occasion , According to him . 
only an announcement was made. This book was distributed to the public . There 
is evidence to show that 94 Bighas of land were gifted by Respondent No . 2 . The 
income from this land has not been specifically shown in the accounts . 

57 . The Audit Report in para 5 indicates that there has been embezzlement 
during the Managership of Respondent No. 2 Fictitious payments made for the con 
struction of the building during the Managership of Respondent No . 2 lrave been 
shown . The allegation in the impugned article (Annexure B ) about Rs. 1 , 400 . 
Rs. 900 and Rs. 500 has been further substantiated by para 5 ( h ) of the Audit Re 
port , which mentions that these sums were shown in cash -book as having been paid 
to Nidhan Singh . Respondent No. 2 has made a futile attempt to explain away 
these entries in para 38 and 39 of his CTOSS - examination . There is no manner of 
doubt that the entries in respect of the above sums are Actitious. 

58. Photostat copies of account books have been fled on behalf of Respondent 
No. 1 . The originals were produced by the C . I. D , Inspector, Sri R . S . Dantre 

( R . W . 1 ) who is investigating the case of misappropriation of the School funds by 
Maharaj Singh Bharti and others . 


- 


- 


4862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [PART II 

- - 

- ESPA 
Photostat copies of the Register " Dainik Rokars and liaintenance account cor 
taining entries for the years 1955 , 1956 and 1957 ( Exs. R . to Ex . R . 10 , R . 12 to 
R , 14 ) have been filed in this case. The entries in this regisver show large number 
of interpolations and cancellations. 

59. Respondent No. 2 in his cross - examination was sliown the cash - book begin 
ping from 21st November 1956 to 15th March 1958. Question about his signature 
appearing on varlous pages of this cash -book was put to him . He gave evasive 
replies when he was asked to identity his signatures on the various pages of this 
wth - book . (See paras 36 , 37, 38 of his deposition ) . 
* The Government aid to this School was stopped by the Director of Education . 
The reason for stopping the aid was nonavailability of the record of the accounts 
for the years 1955 - 58 and 1956 -57. This ff ct is admitted by the petitioner Hmself 
(Para 24 of his deposition ) . The accounts mentioned above were for the period 
I the Managership of Respondent No. 2 

It is obvious that he is reluctant to admit his signatures . He knows he is to 
face a prosecution as investigation is being made by C . I. D . against him and others 
i respect of the embezzlement of the School funds of Mahatma Gandhi Smarak 
Higher Secondary School, Arnawali. 

It has been established from the Audit Report ( Ex , R . 1 ) as well as from the 
cross - examination of Moharaj Singh Bharti Respondent No. 2 ( P . W , 15 ) that there 
lo a prima facie case of embezzlement of School funds against him , as alleged in 
the article published in MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February , 1962. There war 
suficient material for the Editor of MAIRASHTRA vim . Mam Chand Mittal for 
believing that those allegations were true. Under the above circumstances also, 
the charge of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of People 
Act fails in toto . 

60 , Issue No. 2 (6 ) - -- This issue is based on the allegations made in para 12 ( c ) 
of the petition , The petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) has admitted that these averments were 
not in his personal knowledge. No evidence has been led on this issue. Besides, 
there is nothing on record to support the alleged distribution . The finding on this 
issue is in the negative . 

61 . Issue No. 2 ( c ) . - Petitioner has not adduced any evidence to substantiate the 
Allegations of the first part of para 12 ( c ) of his petition , namely distribution in a 
procession of congress in Sadar and Lalkurti localities of Meerut on 18th February , 


1962 . 


In the second part of this paragraph it is alleged that this issue was also dis 
tributed inter alia , in the various Hindu Mohallas of Meerut City and Cantonment 
mentioned in Schedule B by Mam Chand , and Subhas Agarwal, Rakesh Mohan , 
Bhagwat Azad and others . 
NOTE . — The Mohallas mentioned in Schedule B as well as the names of the 

distributors have been added in the original petition after anend 

ment. 
62 . Evidence has been led in respect of distribution in Dalampara locality only . 

Shyam Lal Jain ( P . W , 14 ) in para 5 of his examination - in - chief has stated that 
4 or 5 days before the poll (polling was held on 23rd February , 1962) , when he 
was going on his way to Kambo Gate , he passed through Mohalla Dalampara . He 
saw one Rakesh Mohan , worker of the Youth Congress Committee distributing 
newspapers to people . He gave one copy of the newspaper to him . It was 


He read this newspaper in which there was an article alleging false statement 
against the personal character and conduct of Maharaj Singh Bharti as well as an 
article by MAKRAND . He, however , admits in his cross -examination that these 
articles had no adverse effect on him , as he inew Maharaj Singh Bharti that he 
was a honest person and Mam Chand Mittal and company were merely creating 
election stunt against him and nothing more. 

The petitioner has not examined any other witness on this issue. No reliance 
can be placed on the uncorroborated testimony of P . W . 14 . He is an interested 
witness . He admits , that he supported Respondent No. 2 in the last general elec 
tion . It is obvious that he has been tutored and set up to depose in favour of the 
petitioner . 

63 . Gouri Shanker ( R . W . 24 ) knows Rakesh Mohan . He says that he worked 
for Prakashwati Sood . Hardit Singh ( R . W . 26 ). also knows Rakesh Mohan , Ho 
says that Rakesh Mohan did not work for Sri Shah Nawaz Khan during the elec 
tion . He was formerly a Jan Sangh member and during election he worked for 


Prakashwati Sood . Shyam Lal Jain ( P . W . 14 ) elalms to know Sri Shah Nawaz 
Khan Respondent No. 1 since 1945 since the I. N . A . trial at Delhi. Sri Shah Nawa 
Khan , Sri Saigal and Sri Dillon were jointly tried in the Red Fort in Delhi. 

He says that he worked as a typist in the I. N , A , trial for the defence committee 
at Delhi and in the Red Fort he had occasion to meet and talk with 
all the three persons including Sri Shah Nawaz Khan . This hag b 
satisfactorily rebutted by Sri Shah Nawaz Khan in a reply to a question 
put to him in his cros-examination . He says that during the I. N . A . trial, 
he and the other accused were not allowed to talk to any body except 
tho defence counsel. He is definite that he never met or had any talk with 
Shyam Lal Jain ( P . W . 14 ), during the trial and to this day he has not geen in 
Shyam Lal is evidently telling lies about his acquaintance with Sri Shah Naw 
Khan Respondent No. 1, or distribution of MAIRASHTRA 

Petitioner trag failed to prove that copies of MAIRASHTRA were dlatributed 
in the various Hindu Mohallas of Meerut City and Meerut Cantonment. 

04 . Issue Nos. 2 ( d ) and 26).- Petitioner has led no evidence to substantiate 
the allegations covered by these issues . 

08 . Issue Nos. 3 ( a ) and 3 (b ) . - It is alleged in para 12 ( e ) of the petition that 
Respondent No. 1 through his agents and supporters Mam Chand and Subhas 
Agarwal ( these names were added after amendment) got the first page of the 
above said daily MAIRASHTRA with some other matter regarding Respondent 
No . 2 reprinted in large number on 19th February , 1982. The contents of the mo 
prints are attached with the petition as Annexure C . It is alleged that the original 
issue of MAIRASHTRA and the reprints were issued as pamphlets by Respondent 
Na 1, and he got the above reprints and the original issue of the MARASHTRA 
distributed in various villages of the constituency in Meerut City and Meerut Cat 
tonment. A brief statement and particulars of some of the villages where Reg 
pondent No. 1 got the above said pamphlet or reprint distributed between 18th 
February and 22nd February 1962 are given in Schedult C . 

06 . The daily normal issue of MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 is exc . 
P . 2 According to the petitioner , the MAIRASHTRA dated 20th February 1982 
Igsue No . 42 Ex , P , 1 and P . 3 ) and Issue No . 43 (Ex , P , 4 ) are the reprints of 
MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1982 ( Ex . P . 2 ) . There is no direct evidence 
on record to show that the copies of MAIRASHTRA ( Ex , P . 1 , P . 3 and P . 4 ) were 
reprinted by Mam Chand ( R . W . 31) at the instance of or with the consent of Res 
pondent No. 1. 

07 . It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that there are discrepancies in 
Ex , P . 1 , P . 3 and P . 4 vis - a - vis the MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 (Ex . 
P . 2 ) , which go to show that Ex . P . 1, P . 3 and P . 4 ure reprints . These discre 
pancies are as follows: — 

In Ex . P . 1 , P . 3 and P . 4 , the name of the Editor and Printer is missing. 
Further that on the reverse of Ex , P . 1 , there is a misprlit of the word " Pedh " 
which has been subsequently corrected in Ex, P . 3 and P . 4 . Further that photo 
graphs of Sarvshri Jagdish Saran Rastogi, Shah Nawaz Khan , Kailash Prasad and 
Kamla Chowdhury have been printed on the reverse of Ex , P . 1 , while in Ex . P . 3 
and P . 4 , the space in which the photograph of Kamla Chowdhury was printed is 
left blank , 

It was urged on behalf of the petitioner that the above discrepancies in the 
printing and the reprinting of identical news items and articles in the MAIRASH 
TRA (EX . P . 1 , P . 3 and P . 4 ) dated 20th February , 1962 supports his contention 
that these copies of MAIRASHTRA were reprints of the original i. e. MAIRASH 
TRA dated 18th February , 1962 ( Ex . P , 2 ) . 

Petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) deposed that no one gave hiu the information about the 
reprints as alleged by him in para 12 ( e ) of the petition . He says that it was 
merely an inference drawn from the discrepancies and identical news mentioned 
above. He also states that there was a normal issue of MAIRASHTRA dated 20th 
February 1962 and that he had seen the normal issue and it was different from 
EX , P . 1 . P . 3 and P . 4 . He made no attempts to obtain the normal issue of MAI 
RASHTRA dated 20th February 1962 nor did he flle it. 

08 . Mam Chand ( R . W . 31) who is the Editor of MAIRASHTRA has given plau 
sible explanation how the abovementioned discrepanries have appeared in the 
MAIRASHTRA dated 20th February , 1962 ( Ex . F1, P . ? and P . 4 ) . He asserts 
that these copies of MAIRASHTRA ( F .x . P . 1, P . 3 and P . 4 ) are normal issue of 
the MAIRASHTRA daily issued on 20th February , 1964 . Under the circumstances , 
it was incumbent on the petitioner to prove that there was a normal issue of 


- - 


- 


- 


[PART II 

- - - 
MAIRASHTRA on 20th February 1962 and that it was different from Ex . P . 1, P . 3 
and P . 4 . 


The fact that these issues of MAIRASHTRA Ex . P . 1 , P , 9 and P . 4 contained 
the same matter as was published in the first page of the MAIRASHTRA dated 
18th February 1962 ( Ex P . 2 ) does not hy itsell indicate that the MAIRASHTRA 
datei 20th February 1962 ( Ex . P . 1. P . 3 and P . 4 ) were reprints of the MAI 
RASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 (Ex . P . 2 ) . 


For the matter of that identical news items was also printed in the NAI 
RASHTRA dated 15th January 1962 ( Ex . P , 18) and dated 16th January 1962 
(Ex , P . 19 ) on page 2 . 

It cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that the MAIRASHTRA dated 
16th January , 1962 ( Ex , P . 19 ) was a reprint of the MAIRASHTRA dated 15th 
January 1962 ( Ex . P . 18 ) . Mam Chand ( R . W . 31) has stated that the MAIRASH 
TRA dated 20th February , 1962 ( Ex . P . 1 ) was published for the benefit of the 
public ( vide para 9 ) . 

The petitioner has failed to show that Ex. P . 1, P . 3 , P . 4 were reprints of 
MAIRASHTRA (Ex . P . 2 ) . 

69 . [ The petitioner in para 12 ( e ) of the election petition did not mention the 
names of Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal through whom Respondent No. 1 is 
alleged to have got the MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February , 1982 , reprinted . ] It 
is obviously an atter - thought. I have already held in issue No . 1 ( a ) that Mam 
Chand and Subhas Agarwal were not agents and supporters of Respondent No. 1 . 


20th February , 1962, was a reprint or was distributed with the consent of Respon 
dent No . 1 . There is no evidence also to show that the issue of MAIRASHTRA 
dated 20th February , 1982, was printed as an election pamphlet of Respondent 
No. 1. 


70 . Issue No. 3 ( c ) . - This issue is based on the allegation in para 12 ( e ) of the 
election petition . The names of the alleged agents or Respondent No . 1 who are 
said to have distributed the MAIRASHTRA in various villages have been men 
tioned in Schedule C attached to tho petition , 


In Schedule C names of 89 villages have been mentioned , in which the peti 
tioner alleges the copies of MAIRASHTRA were distributed on 19th and 20th 
February 1902 respectively by the agents of Respondent No. 1. The names of 48 
agents are given in column 1 of the Schedule . The villages in which these agents 
we alleged to have distributed the MARASHTRA respectively have been shown 
in column 2 . The brackets in the Schedule have been typed to show the names 
of agents who distributed the MAIRASHTRA in various villages . 


71 . The petitioner has led evidence in respect of the distribution in 11 villages 
out of a total of 89 villages mentioned in Schedule C . 


Before proceeding to consider the evidence of the witnesses examined by the 
petitioner on this issue, it is necessary to interpret the significance of the brackets 
appearing in Schedule C for ascertaining which of the agents distributed the 
MAIRASYITRA in which of the villages . The contention of Respondent No. 1 is 
that Schedule C gives the name of the distributor and opposite to it the name of 
the village in which the distribution was made. For example , name of Ghisa of 
Arnawali has been typed in the same line 2 . the village Arnawali in item No . 1 . 
It should , therefore, be read that Ghisa distributed the MAIRASHTRA in village 
Arnawall and in no other villages. 


The contention of the petitioner is that naine of ( 1 ) Ghisa as well as ( 2 ) of 
Hoshiar Singh have been mentioned against three villages Arnawali, Jljonkhar and 
Ghasoll, as shown by the brackets and it should be construed that both the per 
sons named above distributed the copies of MAIRASHTRA in the three villages 
mentioned against their names . 


72 , Petitioner has no personal knowledge about the distribution of MAIRASH 
TRA in the villages . He has led cvidence in respect of distribution in villages 
Arnawall ( item No. 1 ) Rasna ( item No. 8 ) , Lahoregarh ( item No. 10 ) , Badora 
( item No. 13 ) , Dhadra ( item No. 14 ) . Bhatipura (item No. 19 ) , Sandan (item 
No. 28 ) , Tigri ( item No. 28 ) , Khanpur ( item No. 33 ) , Nangla Jamalpur ( item 
No, 36 ) , Bafar ( item No. 38 ) all in Schedule C 


VILLAGE ARNAWALI. 
73 . Distribution in village Arnawali is alleged to have been made by Ghisa of 
that village . Bhagirath Singh ( P . W . 11) stated that Hoshiar Singh of village 
Jijonkhar and Ghisa of Arnawali were working for Respondent No. 1 . In para 4 
of his examination - in -chief he says that Hoshiar Singh was on a cycle when he 
was distributing the MAIRASHTRA . More than 20 papers were distributed in 
his presenca . He does not say that both Ghisa and Hoshiar Singh distributed the 
paper in village Arnawali, although according to Schedule C , both Ghisa and 
Hoshiar Singh distributed the MAIRASHTRA in that village . 


It follows that Bhagirath does not really know about distribution although 
he says that he saw only Hoshiar Singh distributing the MAIRASHTRA on a 
cycle . He is certain that the MAIRASHTRA was distributed only one day in yillage 
Arnawali while in Schedule C it is alleged that it was distributed on the 19th as 
well as on the 20th February 1962. In his cross -exaniination he admits that he 
did not make a note when MARISHTRA was distributed , but says he just remem 
bers about it . He admits that leaflets were distributed in the village Arnawall 
since some Afteen days before the polling, but he could not say which paper on 
behalf of which party in support of which candidate and on what dates the leaf 
lets were distributed in Arnawall. It is strange that he could remember about 
distribution of MAIRASHTRA only . 

Bhagirath Singh ( P . W . 11) is evidently a tutored witness and no reliance can 
be placed on his uncorroborated testimony . 


74. Lakshmi Narain (RW . 28 ) is a Sarpanch and Zamindar of village Arna 
wali . He says that he did not work for Sri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No, 1 . 


Singh did not distribute any issue of MAIRASHTRA on behalf of Shah Nawaz 
Khan in the last general election in Arnawali. 

Sheo Swarup Sharma ( R . W , 29 ) who was the principal of Mahatma Gandhi 
Smarak Higher Secondary School Arnawali also says that no issue of MAIRAŞH 
TRA was distributed in village Arnawali on behalf of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan in 
the last general election , 
: I see no reason to disbelieve the abovenamed witnesses examined by Respon 
dent No. 1 . The petitioner has failed to show that copies of MAIRASHTRA were 
distributed in village Arnawali by any worker of Respondent No. 1, 


VILLAGE RAGNA . 
78. Koorey Singh ( P . W . 7 ) has stated that Bishambhar Tyagi and Om Prakash 
Tyagi had distributed the MAIRASHTRA in the village Rasna. According to 
Schedule C , four persons ( itemg 8 to 11 of Schedule C ) have been named as 
agents of Respondent No. 1 who are alleged to have distributed the MAIRASH 
THA in villages Rasna , Narangpur, Lahoregarh , Kaithwari and Kanoni. Thus, 
according to the petitioner , all these four persons distributed the MAIRASHTRA 
in each and every village named against the brackets . But Koorey Singh ( P . W . 7 ) 
names only two persons, viz. Om Prakash Tyagi and Bishambhar Tyagi, who dis 
tributed the MAIRASHTRA. There is thus a glaring contradiction in his evidence . 


Baljit Singh ( R . W . 5 ) of village Rasna and Bishambhar Sahai ( R . W . 6 ) of 
village Kaithwari and Om Prakash Tyagi of village Rasna ( R . W . 7 ) have rebutted 
the evidence of Koorey Singh ( P . W . 7 ) . 


Baljit Singh ( R . W . 5 ) is a Sarpanch of village Rasna. He is an independent 
witness . He is not a member of the congreys . He knows Koorey Singh ( P . W . 7 ) . 
He says that no newspaper such as Ex. P . 1 and P . 2 was distributed in his village 
on behalf of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan . 


Bishambar Sahai ( R . W . 6 ) and Om Prakash Tyagi ( R . W . 7 ) of village Ragna 
have denied that they distributed any issue of MAIRASHTRA from any tractor 
In Rasna or Lahoregarh on behalf of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan during the last elec 


tion . 


Evidence of Koorcy Singh ( P . W . 7 ) about the alleged distribution MAIR 
ASHTRA in village Rasna has been satisfactorily rebutted by Respondent No. 1 s 
witnesses Baljit Singh (RW . 5 ) , Bishambhar Sahai ( R . W . 6 ) and Om Prakash 
Tyagi ( R . W . 7 ) . The allegation of distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Ratna 
has not been substantiated by the petitioner, 


VILLAGE LANOBLQARI. 
76 . Jagat Singh ( P . W . 10 ) gays that Om Prakash vos distributing the now 
Neper in village Lahoregarh from a tractor. Bishambhar Sahai and some othor 
persons were sitting in the tractor. He does not say that Bishambhar Sahai ale 
distributed the MAIRASHTRA , He says that Bishambhar Sahal was speaking 
from a loudspeaker announcing about the inisdeeds of Maharaj Singh Bharti 

It is not pleaded that any announcement was made by any agent of Respondent 
H . , 1 during the alleged distribution of MAIRASHTRA . P . W . 10 does not by 
That Mangal Sen and Chhatar Sen algo distributed the MAIRASHTRA although th 
kchedule C the names of all the four persons Mangal Sen , Om Prakash , Chhath 
en and Bishambhar Sahai are mentioned . Both Bishambhar Sahai (RW . 6 ) and 
Om Prakash Tyagi ( R . W . 7 ) have denied that they distributed the MAIRASHTRA 
1 village Lahoregårh . They are corroborated by Mangal Sen ( R . W . 8 ) . 
Jagat Singh ( P . W . 10 ) is a tutored witness and no rellance can be placed on 

evidence. Petitioner has failed to prove the distribution of MAIRASHTRA 
Lage Lahore parh . 

VILLAGE BADORA 
77 , Jahan Singh ( P . W . 9 ) stated that Amar Singh was distributing the MAIRA 
SHTRA in village Badora on behalf of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan one day before the 
plection . In his cross -examination , he names large number of persons of the village 
who had collected at the time of the distribution , None of those witnesses have 
been examined to corroborate Jahan Singh ( P . W . 9 ) . He does not say that Ved 
Prakash also distributed the MAIRASHTRA , although the name of Ved Prakash 
is mentioned in Schedule C in respect of the distribution in village Badora also . 
Hi evidence to rebutted by Mam Singh ( R . W , 9 ) who says that Amar Singh dtd 
not work for Respondent No . 1 in Badora Amar Singh is a practising lawyer tot 
Meerut. Ved Prakash ( R . W . 10 ) dentes distribution of MAIRASHTRA by Amar 
Singh in this village. 

Ved Prakash ( R . W . 10 ) knows Jahan Singh ( P . W . 9 ) and says that Amar Singh 
worked fór Maharaj Singh Bharti during the last election , 

Jahan Singh ( P . W . g ) is a partisan witness and it will not be safe to accept 
his uncorroborated testimony . Petitioner has failed to adduce satisfactory rid 
ence to prove the distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Badora , 


VILLAGE DHADRA 
78 . Ved Singh ( P . W , 3 ) is a resident of village Dhadra . He says that on 20th 
February 1962 MAIRASHTRA was distributed in village Dhadra at about 10 or 
11 am , by one Buddhu alias Budh Sen of village Marhi who is alleged to be a 
congress man . According to him , Buddhu was distributing the newspaper from a 
Rickshaw . He had a mike in his hand and a congress flag was there. He read 
the paper and says that it contained allegations of misappropriation and selling 
of cement in black market by Respondent No . 2 . He complained about it to 


In his cross - examination , he says that in spite of the allegation he had voted 
for Maharaj Singh Bharti. He was asked to do so by Hari Raj Singh , He admits 
in his cross - examination that he was a student of the Rasna Inter College where 
Kar Raj Singh is a teacher . He is obviously under the infuence of Hari Raj Singh 
and has come to support him . His evidence is rebutted by Budh Sen ( R . W . 2 ) 
who denied distribution of MAIRASHTRA , Mool Chand ( R . W . 3 ) who is a resi 


canvassing during the election . He says he did not hear any loudspeaker in the 
village Dhadra. 

The evidence of uncorroborated testimony of Ved Singh ( P . W . 3 ) has been 
sattstactorily rebutted by Budh Sen ( R . W . 2 ) and Mool Chand (RW . 3 ) . Pett 
tioner has failed to substantiate his allegations for distribution of the paper MAI 
RASHTRA in village Dhadra . 

VILLAGE BHATIPURA 
79. Bhikam Singh ( P . W . 5 ) is a resident of village Bhatipura. He says that 
one day before the election MAIRASHTRA newspaper was distributed in his 
village. He had read the paper . It was written in it that Maharaj Singh Bharti 
had misappropriated money and sold cement and coal belonging to a School. He 


further says that Chhotey Singh of village Seolda distributed this paper in his 
village. He then changes and says that Chhotey Singh was sitting in his tractor 


Many people had collected round the tractor when the papers were being distri 
buted . None of them have been examined to corroborate him . 


Chhotey Singh ( R . W . 11 ) says that he did not distribute any such paper in 


RASHTRA was distributed by Chhottey Singh . He knows Bhikam Singh ( P . W . 5 ) 
and says that he worked for Maharaj Singh Bharti in the last general election . 
Name of Chhotey Singh is not mentioned in Schedule C in respect of the distri 
bution of MAIRASHTRA in Bhatipura . Bhikam Singh ( P . W . 5 ) is evidently an 
interested witness . His . evidence remains uncorroborated and does not merit any 
credence . I disbelieve him and hold that no copy of MAIRASHTRA newspaper 
was distributed in village Bhatipura . 


VILLAGE SANDAN 
80. Harbans Singh ( P . W . 6 ) is a resident of village Sandan . He says that on 
behalf of Congress a paper known as MAIRASHTRA was distributed one or two 
days before the date of poll in his village. He had read the paper and it stated 
about misappropriation of money and cement by Maharaj Singh Bharti. Accord 
ing to him , this distribution was done by Narain Singh from a Rickshaw and he 


papers were distributed on behalf of other candidates also , but he does not re 
member the names of those persons who distributed the papers of other candi 
dates , nor does he remember the contents of those papers . He has been evidently 
tutored to say about distribution of MAIRASHTRA . 

Narain Singh ( R . W . 17 ) denies that he distributed any paper in village Sandan . 
Raj Singh ( R . W . 18 ) corroborated him . Narain Singh ( R . W . 17 ) further says 
that about 40 persons worked with him for the congress in the last election . He 
did not work for Sri Shah Nawaz Khan but he worked for Mool Chand Shastri 
in Baraut constituency . I see no reason to disbelieve Narain Singh ( R . W . 17 ) 
and Raj Singh ( R . W . 18 ) . 


Evidence of Harbans Singh ( P . W . 6 ) about distribution of MAIRASHTRA has 
been satisfactorily rebutted by Respondent No. 1 s witnesses. Petitioner has failed 
to substantiate his allegations about the distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village 
Sandan , 


VILLAGE TIGRI 
81. Jagpal Singh ( P . W . 4 ) states that Jai Pal Singh and Nawab Singh of Kheri 
wore working for Sri Shah Nawaz Khan in village Tigri and on 21st February 
1962 a copy of MAIRASHTRA was distributed by Jaipal Singh in his village. He 
does not name Nawab Singh of Kheri as a co -worker with him at the time of 
distribution although Nawab Singh s name appears in Schedule C in respect of 
the alleged distribution in village Tigri. 

In his cross - examination , he says that he remembers the date as he maintains 
a diary and he has noted the date of distribution of leaflets in his diary . The 
date of distribution in Schedule C in Tigri is 20th February 1962 but Jagpal ( P . 
W . 4 ) says MAIRASHTRA was distributed on 21st February 1962. He stands 
contradicted by the particulars given in Schedule C . 

jawab Singh ( R . W . 15 ) ) and Mahipal Singh ( R . W . 16 ) have denied the dis 
tribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Tigri. Mahipal Singh ( R . W . 16 ) further 
says that there was no person by name of Jaipai Singh in village Tigri who 
worked for Respondent No. 1. Evidence of Jagpal Singh ( D . W . 4 ) has not been 
corroborated by any other witness . I am unable to accept his evidence which 
has been satisfactorilt rebutted by Respondent No. I s witnesses. Distribution of 
MAIRASHTRA in village Tigri has not been proved . 


VILLAGE KHANPUR . 
82 . Ganga Saran ( P . W . 8 ) has stated that Balak Ram of village Maipa dis 
tributed MAIRASHTRA from a Rickshaw , which was fitted with a loudspeaker . 
In Schedule C . Arjun Devi of Timakia and Kallo of Siwal are also mentioned in 
respect of distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Khanpur and 9 other villages 
of Meerut Rural Assembly constituency . Ganga Saran ( P . W . 8 ) does not say 
that Arjun Devi and Kallo also distributed the MAIRASHTRA in Khanpur. His 


evidence is thus contradicted by the particulars given in Schedule C . He was 
polling agent for Respondent No. 2 and has been evidently tutored to support the 
petitioner . 


Balak Ram ( R . W . 4 ) has denied that he distributed the MAIRASHTRA in 
Khanpur . No reliance can be placed on the evidence of Ganga Saran ( P . W . 8 ) , 
Distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Khanpur is not proved . 


VILLAGE NANGLA JAMALPUR 
83 . Gyan Chand ( P . W . l ) says that one day before the election some congress 
men came in a jeep car with congress flags flying on the same and they distri 
buted some paper . Bhulley Singh was the person who was distributing the paper . 
This paper which was being distributed was MAIRASHTRA dated 20th February 
1962 . In his cross -examination he says that there were two or three persons with 
Bhulley Singh in the Jeep . Amongst him , he recognised Padam Singh of Jani. 
His evidence is rebutted by Bhulc Singh ( R . W . 19 ) and Padam Singh ( R . W . 20 ) . 
They say they did not distribute any MAIRASHTRA in the village Nangla Jamal 
pur, Babu Ram ( R . W . 21) who is a resident of this very village denies distribu 
tion of MAIRASHTRA there . He is an independont witness and I see no reason 
to disbelieve him . According to Gyan Chand ( P . W . 1 ) the village comprises of 
400 adult persons, out of whom 300 persons cast their votes in favour of Respond 
ent No . 2 . This makes it extremely unlikely that any distribution of MAIRASHTRA 
with this article alleging misappropriation on the part of Maharaj Singh Bharti 
would have been distributed in this village. The uncorroborated evidence of 
Gyan Chand ( P . W . 1 ) is not convincing . Petitioner has falled to substantiate 
his allegation of distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Nangla Jamalpur. 


VILLAGE BAFAR 
84. Harbir Singh ( P . W . 2 ) is a resident of village Bafar, He says that one 
day before the Poli, MAIRASHTRA was distributed by Bhulley Singh and Padam 
Singh along with 2 or 3 other persons in this village . According to him , paper 
was distributed from a jeep car . He read the paper which contained the alle 
gation of misappropriation of money and black -marketing by Maharaj Singh 
Bharti. In his cross - examination , he says that when the paper was distributed , 
among the persons present on the spot , he had been it. It was MAIRASHTRA 
dated 20th February 1962. He had seen Mohammad Shafi , Ramzani, Gopi Chand 
Harljan , Husan Singh Harijan , Shiv Charan Maharaj Brahman , Nawab Singh , 
Om Prakash Pradhan , Baljit Singh , Mahabir Singh and others in possession of 
the paper after the distribution . None of these witnesses have been examined 
to corroborate him . When asked in the cross - examination about the Jeep from 
which MAIRASHTRA was distributed , he could not give its number . He also 
could not say whether Bhulley Singh and Padam Singh were workers of Sri Shah 
Nawaz Khan Respondent No . 1 . 


Bhule Singh ( R . W . 19 ) and Padam Singh ( R . W . 20 ) both have denied distrl 
bution of MAIRASHTRA in village Bafar . Harbir Singh ( P . W . 2 ) appears to be 
a tutored witness and no reliance can be placed on his uncorroborated testimony . 
Petitioner has failed to prove the distribution of MAIRASHTRA in village Bafar, 


I hold that the MAIRASHTRA newspaper dated 18th February 1962 Or dated 
20th February 1962 were not distributed in the villages mentioned in Schedule C . 


85 , Issues No. 2 ( f ) and 3 ( d ). This issue is based on the allegations in para 
graph 12 ( 1 ) of the petition , wherein it is stated that the reprints contained nothing 
else but Túlse and defamatory statement regarding Respondent No. 2 , in relation 
to his personal character and was an election pamphlet of Respondent No . 1 in 
the garb of special issues of Daily MAIRASHTRA . It is further alleged that 
the above said reprints were published and propagated with the full knowledge 
and belief that the above statements were false and at any rate not true. All 
this was done with a view to prejudice the election prospects of Respondent 
No. 2 . 


There is no allegation in this paragraph that the statement contained in the 
paper was published by Respondent No. 1 or by his agents with his consent. 

It has been held in Issue No , 1 ( a ) that Mam Chand and Subhas Agarwal 
were not agents or supporters of Respondent No. 1 . Mam Chand and Subhas 
Agarwal are aditors and sub - editors of the Local Daily MAIRASHTRA . 


The petitioner has failed to prove that the impugned article in the MAI 
RASHTRA dated 18th February 1962 concerning Respondent No. 2 was published 
with the consent of Respondent No. 1 . 

It has been held in Mathat Mathew Vanjiran vs. K C . Abraham - 10 EL. R . 
paye 367 at 378 as follows: 
" Where the managing director of a newspaper was the President of the 

Provincial Congress Committee and the editor and publisher of it 
was , a prominent Congressman , and the paper was actively canvass 
ing for the Congress through its editorials , reports , circulars and ad 
vertisements and receiving donations from the Congress : Held , that 
these facts were not sufficient to make that newspaper or its editor 
an agent of the candidate put up by the Congress so as to make the 

candidate liable for the statements made in that paper," 
In the copy of MAIRASHTRA dated 20th February 1962 (Ex . P . 1 , P . 3 and 
P . 4 , the article published on the first page of MAIRASHTRA dated 18th Feb 
ruary 1982 (Ex. P . 2 ) has been reproduced . In this article allegations were made 


appropriated and sold cement, coal etc . of the School in black -market. 


The finding on Issue No . 2 ( a ) is that the statement in the article published 
in MAIRASHTRA dated 18th February 1982 by Mam Chand ( R . W . 31 ) is not 
Halse . In view of this finding also I hold that Respondent No. 1 has not com 
mitted any corrupt practice as defined in sub -section ( 4 ) of Section 123 of the 
Representation of People Act. There is no evidence to show that the issues of 
MAIRASHTRA dated 20th February 1962 were election pamphlet of Respondent 
No. 1 or any act was done by him to prejudice the election prospects of Respon 
dent No. 2 

86 . Issue No. 3 ( e ) . - - This issue is based on the averments in para 12 ( g ) of the 
petition . The allegations are that the reprints were distributed with the consent 
of Respondent No. 1 in the procession of Congress in large numbers on 20th 
February , 1962, in Meerut City by Sarvashri Mam Chand , Bhagwat Azad , Rakesh 
Mohan , Shadi Ram Jain , Jayanti Prasad who were his workers and agents. It 
is also alleged that in this procession Respondent No . 1 personally participated . 
Allegations in para 12 ( g ) were verified by the petitioner to be true to his 
personal knowledge . 

The petitioner in his cross - examination referred to the allegations in this 
paragraph wherein an amendment was made by adding the words with the con 
sent of Respondent No. 1" . He admitted that it was not in his personal know 
ledge that the reprints were distributed with the consent of Respondent No. 1 . 
The verification was obviously false ( See cross - examination para 40 ) . 

87 . The petitioner is the only witness in respect of this allegation . He says 
that on 20th February, 1962, he saw the distribution in Gujribazar. He could 
not say from which place the procession started nor could he say about its terri 
nation , 

Hakim Saifuddin ( R . W . 12 ), Gouri Shanker ( R . W . 24 ) , Hardit Singh ( R . W . 26 ) , 
Shah Nawaz Khan ( R . W . 32 ) have denied distribution of MAIRASHTRA . Shri 
Sah Nawaz Khan (RW , 32 ) admits that he was in the congress procession but 
denied that Rakesh Mohan and Bhagwat Azad were his workers. He has denied 
Wat any copy of MAIRASHTRA was distributed in the Congress procession , 

Hakim Saifuddin ( R . W . 12 ) has deposed that 3 days prior to the date of poll 
of Meerut City a Congress procession was taken out at about 3 P . M , which start 
od from Sharma Memorial building and went through the town . He was present 
in the procession so also Shri Shah Nawaz Khan . Ht is definite that no copy of 
MAIRASHTRA was distributed in that procession ( vide para 8 ) . 

Gouri Shanker ( R . W . 24 ) is a resident of Meerut City . He was an accused in 
the Meerut Conspiracy case. He was under - trial for four years and was convict 
cd for 3 years R . I. in 1933 in that case . He had already joined the Congress 
IR 1920 . He had participated in the Congress procession on 20th February , 1962. 
He denied that any issue of MAIRASHTRA in Hindi was distributed in that 
procession , 

Hardit Singh ( R . W . 26 ) was also present in that procession of 20th February , 
1962. He is definite that no newspaper whatsoever was distributed in that 
procession . He kept changing places in the procession - sometimes he was in the 
front, sometimes in the middle and rear. They have fully corroborated the 


of Shah Nawaz Khan ( R .W , 32 ) that no MAIRASHTRA newspaper 
was distributed in this procession , 

When the petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) could falsely swear his affidavit with relation 
to the allegations in para 12 ( a ) of the election petition and could make false 
verification in respect of paras 13 ( g ), 12 ( h ) and 12 ( 1 ) thereof, he would not 
hesitate to misrcpresent facts to suit his purpose , ( See cross - examination of 
P . W . 13 paras 38 to 40 , 42 ). Under the circumstances , his evidence about the 
distribution of the MAIRASHTRA on 2012 February , 1962, in the Congress proces 
sion without any corroboration must be rejected as false. 

. I hold that no reprints of MAIRASHTRA were distributed in the Congress 
procession on 20th February , 1962 in Mecrut City . 

88 . Issue No. 3 ( 5 ) - This issue is based on the allegation made in para 12 ( h ) of 


knowledge. In para 3 of his deposition he stated that on 21st February , 1962, at 
about 8 P . M . a meeting of Congress was held in Gujribazar and copies of 
MAIRASHTRA (Ex . p . 1 ) were distributed there. Before it was distributed Mam 
Chand read out certain portions from this reprint. Sarvashri Shah Nawaz Khan , 
Jagdish Saran Rastogi and Rakesh Mohan were present in this meeting . He has not 
examined any witness to corroborate him . His cvidence has been satisfactorily 
rebutted by Hakim Saifuddin ( R . W . 12 ) . He has deposed that he is a member 
of the Municipal Board Meerut from Ward No . 7 constituency . A portion of 
Gujribazar is included in that constituency . Two or three days before the date of 
poll be presided over a meeting which was held in Gujribazar at 7 or 8 P -M , Shri 
Shah Nawaz Khan was not present in that meeting. Shri Shah Nawaz Khan 
testified that he was not present in that meeting as he was busy with the polling . 
Hakim Saifuddin (RW . 12 ) corroborates him . 

Mam Chand ( R . W . 31 ) has denied that he participated in the meeting or 
distributed any copy of MAIRASHTRA . In the absence of any corroborated evid 
ence, I disbelieve the petitioner when he says that a copy of MAIRASHTRA was 
distributed at the Congress meeting on 21st February, 1962 or that Mam Chand 
Mittal ( R . W . 31) read out certain portions from this reprint. I further disbelieve 
him when he says that Shri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No. 1 was present in 
this meeting . Shri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No. 1 could not have been 
present as testified by Hakim Saifuddin (RW . 12 ) that he was busy elsewhere it 
being the polling day for his constituency . 

The allegation about distribution of the reprint on 21st February , 1982 , in 
Gujribazar or the presence of Respondent No. I there is obviously false. There 
is no truth in the allegation that Respondent No . 1 participated in the Congress 
neeting on 21st February , 1982 . 

89 . 188tle No. 4 ( a ) and ( b ) . - The petitioner has no personal knowledge about 
the allegation made in para 12 ( i) of the petition . He has examined a solitary wit 
nes Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) . He is a resident of village Bafar, which is 7 miles 
from Meerut. He says that he had gone to Meerut on 23rd February , 1962. It 
was the third day of Ramzan . After visiting some polling statlons in Meerut 
City , he went to Shahi Jamma Masjid at about 1 in the afternoon for prayers , 
He says that after the prayers it was announced that the people should stay as 
Hakim Saif Şahib ( R . W . 12 ) will speak to them . He says that Halim Saif Sahib 
vave a speech as follows: - - 
" Mulk men jamhcoriat hai aur janhooriat men chunao ahmiat rakhte hain 

aur kahna ko to Hindistan cernit sinte hai lekin pichle Aligarh wo 
Meerut ke dongon 11+ yali ?,7L la diva hoi ki Hindu lok aksiriat 
men hain aur woh ham oliivi _ 1 walon ko daw kar raul, men 171.hna 
chahte liin nair han : ; Jo Che field forinnent Iri ham , pas 12:11 1150 
aaj sala Hindu Maharni Singh 3114rti k saili hukar a127 uncil rec 
Jion men laniyib har lr chivial chahte hain is live bann ko bhi 
opni scat ki hifazat ke line sa kanil kar apne hi dmi Shah Nawaz 

Sahib 10 voto dena zaroori hai," 
Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) further says that after Hakini Saif Sahib coniluded his 
speech , Shri Shah Nawaz Khan stond up and said as ollows: 
" Jo kuchh Saif Sahib ne kaha hai woh durust hai aur main uski taeedi 

karta lioon aur choonki waqt kam hai 4 bajc tak polling khatam h . 
Jaegi main etna kahna chahta hoon ki pichle dangon men jo fasadat 
se masjid ko nuksan pahuncha hai uske liye sab log dil khol kar 
chanda den aur main bhi apni niji position men se Mufti Khaliq ke 
zariye aap ki masjid ki committee ke nam 2200 rupiya bhejne ka 


SEC . 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 4871 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - . - . - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - = - = - = - = - = - = 

waida karta 11000 4711 0uit p . chle dono jumton nen nahin aa 

Uka iske lir . ft rltalii lioun ah aun sab lug bahut jald apne apne 
timsan 11 - 12 latar n ., vas pli 

v o lol rah na jar sah vote polling 
par dalu dij who lit yell Bilialı ki main abhi polling par ho 
kar aa raha hoor beni logon ki bahut timri voten polling par pahunchi 
Halu . Us ke bad wihan Allahı wo ukbar ke nare lagne lagc . Main 

wuhan se chala agya ." 
Fruin his replies in his cross - examination , it is abundantly clear that he is a 
got-up witness . He is telling lies when he says he attended the Friday prayers 
at the Jama Masjid on 23rd February , 1962 . He is also telling a lie that Hakim 
Saifuddin gave a speech after the Friday prayer was over or Şri Shah Nawaz 
Khan Respondent No, 1 supported Saifuddin , or offered the sum of Rs. 2 , 200 to 
wards the Jama Masjid Fund for damages caused to it , 

First of all there is no plending to the effect that any speech was made by 
Hakim Saifuddin after the prayers were over or that the speech was supported 
by Respondent No . ) . Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) has concocted the story of the speech 


obviously not present at the Jama Masjid on 23rd February , 1962. He says that 
only one Azan was called on Friday at the Jama Masjid . This was not so . Qazi 
Zainul Abdin ( R . W . 22 ) who is a Pesh - Imam of that mosque is definite that two 
Azans were called when the prayer commenced . The first Azan is called at 1 P . M , 
And the second Azan is called at 1 - 30 P . M , and after the second Azan Khutba 
is said in Arabic and thereafter people stand for the farz namaz. 

Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) has no knowledge of the manner in which the Nama2 
was performed on 23rd February , in Jaina Masjid , He has not given any satis 
factory explanation why he visited the Jama Masjid , Meerut from Bafar to 
offer Friday prayer on 23rd February , 1962. When according to Bhuley Singh 
( R . W . 19) there are mosques in Jani Kalan and Siwal where Juma prayers are 
offered . Jani Kalan is at a distərice of one mile from Batar and Siwal is about 
2 miles from Bafar. These mosainies being so near to Bafar, it was not necessary 
for Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) to go such a long distance to attend the Friday prayers in 
Jama Masjid . 

Ashiq Ali ( P . W . 12 ) is a highly interested witness and a man of dubious 
character . Ile admits that he was a polling agent of Respondent No. 2 . He fur 
ther admits that he was prosecuted for dacoity and he was hound uver under 
section 109 Cr. P . C . but was acquitted . Hakim Saifuddin (RW . 12 ) is a respect 
able person , he is a member of the Municipal Board , Mecrut for the last 15 years, 
He joined the Congress in 1956 . He worked for Congress in the last general clec 
tion and was in charge of the election of Jagdish Saran Rastogi, M . L . A . He is 
definite that he did not offer prayers in Jama Masjid Meerut on 23rd February . 
1962 , nor did he go there to deliver any speech , 

Shri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No. 1 ( R . W . 32 ) has stated in para 18 of 
his deposition that he went to Jama Masjid on 23rd February , 1962 to offer the 
Friday prayer . He denied that he made any speech on that occasion nor he made 
any promise or an offer. Abdul Khalik Mufti ( R . W . 13 ) , Qazi Zainul Abdin 
(RW 22 ) , Hakim Shafiq Ahmad ( R . W , 23 ) are respectable witnesses . They 
testify that Shri Shah Nawaz Khan made no speech nor offered any sum to the 
Jama Masjid after the prayers were over . 

90 . Abdul Khaliq Mufti ( R . W . 13 ) is a Senior Vice President in the Municipal 
Board , Meerut. He was present at the Jama Masjid on 23rd February , 1982 , 
where he offered his prayers . He was there from 1 P . M . till 2 - 30 P . M . He says 
that Sri Shah Nawaz Khan and Hakim Saifuddin did not deliver any specch in 
the mosque that day . He did not see Hakim Saifuddin that day in the mosque. 
He further says that Sri Shah Nawaz Khan did not offer Rs. 2 , 200 to him for any 
loss or damage done to the mosgue. On the other hand he asserts that during the 
riots no damage was caused to the building of Jama Masjid . Qazi Zainul Abdin 
( R . W . 22 ) was the Pesh Imam who led the prayers on Friday . 

Evidence of Abdul Khalik Mufti ( R . W . 131 is corroborated by Qazi Zainul 
Abdin ( 11. W . 22 ) & Hakim Shafiq Ahmad ( R . W . 23 ) . He led the prayers on Friday 
on the day of poll in the last gencral elertion in Jama Masjid Meerut. He knows 
Sri Shah Nawaz Khari. He says that Sri Shah Nawaz Khan did not deliver any 
specch that day. In his cross -examination he affirms that on 23rd February , 1963 
there was no mecting of any kind ofter the Friday piayri s in the Jama Masjid 
According to him , somc suhscription were collrcted on that day , which amounted 
to about Ii s . 100 or Rs. 150 . He is defnite that no damage was done to the Jama 
Masjid building . He says that only soin durrics were damaged by fre hut il 


4872 


THE GAZETTE, OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [Part II 

- - - - 


. 


- 


S 


did not spread and it was extinguished and no durry was completely burnt. In 
his cross - examination he affirms that on 23rd February , 1962, Sri Shah Nawaz 
Khan offered his prayers in the Jama Masjid Meerut. He did not see Hakim 
Saifuddin ( R . W . 12 ) . He further affirms that they did not deliver any speech 
neither Sri Shah Nawaz Khan offered Rs. 2 , 200 as subscription for the damages 
caused to the mosque . 

No damage was caused to the Jama Masjid during communal riots . Some 
damage was caused to the other mosques in Meerut, which fact has been admit 
ted by Respondent No. 2 . Who admits that the damages were repaired in Novem 
ber 1981 from the funds of Provincial Congress Committee and that of State Gov 
ernment ( Sec para 9 of the deposition of Respondent No. 2 ) . This being so , the 
petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) s allegation that an offer of Rs. 2 , 200 was made by Respond 
ent No . 1 for repairs of the damages to the Jama Masjid Is baseless and mischiev 
Ous. 

91 , Sri Shah Nawaz Khan Respondent No. 1 ( R . W . 32 ) related an account of 
his career since the time he was taken prisoner by the Japanese Army during the 
Great War and till the time of his trial in the year 1945 in the Red Fort of Delhi 
for having joined the Indian National Army under Netaji Subhash Chandra Bosc 
And after his release, his active participation in consolidating Hindu Muslim unity . 
The truth of the account given hy him in his evidence (para 2 to 8 of his deposi 
tion ) has not been challenged in any manner in his cross - examination , nor has 
it been shown anywhere by the petitioner that there has been a change in his 
faith in Hindu Muslim unity . Wito tlie above back -ground in view , it is difficult 
to believe that he would have addressed the congrcgation at the Jama Masjid 
on 23rd February , 1982 in the manner alleged by the petitionci , 

I find the petitioner has failed to substantiate the allegation that Respondent 
No. 1 addressed the Muslim community on 23rd February , 1962 at the Jama Masjid 
Mcerut to vote for him on ground of religion . The petitioner has also failed to 
show that after the prayers Respondent No . 1 offered to pay a sum of Rs. 2 , 200 
to the management of Juma Masjid for the alleged loss, destruction or damige 
done to it during the communal riots . In fact, no damage was done to this 
mosque. 

92 . Issue No. 5 . — This issue is based on the allegation in para 12 (1) of the 
pctition , which has been verified to be true to the personal knowledge of the peti 
tioner . Thc petitioner s evidence is the only evidence on this issue. In para 7 
of his examination - in - chief, he has deposed that on the night of 21st February . 
1962. there was a proclamation in Meerut City to the cffect that Jats who are of 
the same community as Maharaj Singh Bharti hud beaten members of Jatay at 
various places . This announcement was made from a Congress car carrying a 
Congress flag . He heard this announcement from his room in Gujribazar , where 
there was an office of the Socialist party at that time. He heard Lakhpat Singh 
making the annourrcement, but later on he was told that there was another person 
Also with him . It is significant to note that in the original petition , in para 12 (j ) 
of the petition , the number of the congress car and the name of the person wlio 
are said to have made the announcement was not given , The above particulars 
were supplied after the amendment application was allowed . 

93 . Petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) in para 42 of his cross - examination admits that he did 
not see Respondent No. 1 himself in Congress Car , The statement in para 12 ( ) 
of the petition that Respondent No . 1 got a fulse and defamatory announcement 
made was based on inference and not on personal knowledge . He could not state 
the exact words used by Lakhpat Singh who made the announcement. He did 
not hear Reoti Saran making an announcement from the car. He had to admit 
that Lakhpat Singh is not a Congress man and that Rcoti Saran was a worker of 
Republican party and not a Congress man . The petitioner has not given any 
reason why members of rival parties would participate in canvassing for the bene 
fit of the Congress candidate during the election or during the poll. 

Shri Shah Nawuz Khan (RW , 32 ) stated that no announcement was made 
from the Car No. USV 1715 which belonged to him . He further states that this 
car was out of order for the most part of election campaign . He has also statech 
that Lakhpat Singh and Reoti Saran were not his workers. From the cvidence 
of Halim Shafiq Ahmad (RW . 23 ) , Noor Ahmad ( R . W . 25 ) and Harditt Singh 
(RW . 26 ) , it is also clear that Respondent No . l s car (bearing No. USV 1715 ) 
was out of order and could not have been used for making the alleged announce 
ment on 21st February , 1962. 

Petitioner has told many falsehood . He has falsely verified some of the allega 
tions in the petition and has falsely sworn the affidavit relating to para 12 ( a ) of 
the petition , 

I disbelieve his uncorroborated testimony . I hold that no announcement as 
alleged in para 12 ( j ) of the petition was made on behalf of Respondent No. 1 , 
on 21st February , 1962. 


Repti 239 , Nocent ako is making the 


Orc.. $4:1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 L.86 4872 
- - - - - = - = = : - - - - - - - - 

= - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - 
94 . ISBile No . 6 , 7 , 8 ( a ) & ( 6 ) .- Findings on these issues are in the negative 
as no evidence has been led by the petitioner . 

95 . Issue No. 9 ( a ) , ( b ) ( c ), ( d ) . - - The above issue is framed on the allegation 
made in para 15 of the petition . These allegations are not in the personal know 
ledge of the petitioner , The petitioner ( P . W . 13 ) has stated in para 12 of his 
deposition that he saw at Mcerut on 23rd February , 1962, when polling took 
place , Rickshaws hired by Congress at various polling stations namely Old Tahsil, 
Modipara, Lisari,, Darwaza , Town Hall and Vaish Inter College. In para 51 of his 
cross - examination he says that he has himself seen some voters carried by Rick 
shaws. He has given the particulars of the names of the owners of the tractors 
and the number of cars used on the information of his workers , namely Raghubir 
Singh , Om Prakash , Jai Prakash Kamil, Nardeo Shastri, Sheo Dutt Singh , 
Chandra Prakash and Nidhan Singh , 

In para 53 of his cross -examination he adds that the persons who gave him the 
Information about the Rickshaws were Abinash Chandra and P . K . Puri. They 
had also given him the names of the persons who they thought had hired the 
Rickshaws. He could not say whether the persons who informed him about the 
hiring of the motor car or the tractor s had any personal knowledge as to who hirect 
these tractors or that they were hired with the consent of Sri Shah Nawaz Khan , 

None of the persons named by the petitioner have bcen examined by him , in 
support of his allegations, of which he has no personal knowledge. The finding 
on this issue is, therefore, in the negative. 

96 . Issue No. 10 . - Fron the nature of the allegations made in the Election 
Petition hi Sri Hari Raj Singh and the evidence on recorri, it can safely be infer 
red that the real person nchind this Elcction Petition is Sri Maharaj Singh Bharti 
Respondent No. 2 , though he denied having anything to do with it. He gave the 
following reasons for not filing the Election Petition himself ; — 
( 1 ) It is his conviction that for the sake of successfui deniorracy election 

petition should be discouraged , 
( 2 ) He has very little resources for Aling the election petition . 
( 3 ) The procedure of election petition hercin o such that after the tempo of 

election is over , the witnesses are not available till the end of the 

petition . 
( 4 ) There is no material gain as it takes time for the disposal of the peti 

tion and for thc byc - election . 
He concluded by saying that he had advised Sri Hari Raj Singh not to file: tlie 
petition , but he did not agrec with him . Still I find that Respondent No . 2 went 
all out in trying to support the petitioner particularly the allegations contaitied 
in para 12 ( b ) of the petition concerning statements relating to his personal 
character or conduct. 

The petitioner himself has very little resources and it appears from his own 
admission that Nidhan Singh who was the main supporter of Respondent No. 2 
has been financing this litigation , 

The election petition filed by Hari Raj Singh is frivulous. In view of the lind . 
ings rccorded I dismiss the petition . 

The petitioner shall bear the costs of Respondent No. 1 amountin to 
Ra. 3 . 822.99 P . including Counsel s fee detailed below . I fix Rs. 1, 000 as Counsel s 


fee . 


Applications 
T . A . & D . A . Of witnesses 
Photostat copies charges 
Expenses on account of sun moning of records from Meerut 
Charges of certified copies of documents filed 
Counsel s fee . .. 


Rs. P . 

26 -50 
2 , 242 - 1.1 

270 -00 
271- 35 

13 -00 
1 ,000 -00 


3,822 - 99 
Respondent No. 2 shall bear his own costs. 

(Sd.) B K . CHUDHURI, Member , 
Election Tribunal, Alahabad . 

[ No. 82 / 208 /62.] 

By Order, 
PRAKASH NARAIN . Secy , 


4874 THE GAZE1 TE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 5, 1880 [Part 11 – 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - -- - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 17th December 1964 
S . O . 4307 . - - I :1 excclse of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor -General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following rules 
further to amend the Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) 
Rules , 1987, namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Central Civil Services (Classification , Contro ! 
and Appeal) Sixth Amendment Rules, 1964. 

2 . In the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 


(a ) in proviso ( lli ) to sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 30 ; and 

(b ) in proviso ( to sub -rule (1 ) of rule 92 , 
after the words " any representation which he may wish to make" , the words 
" only on the basis of the evidence adduced during such Inquiry " shall be insert 
ed . 

[No 7 / 36 / 63 - Ests ( A ) . ] 
R . M . SHROFF , Dy. Secy . 


- - - 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 11th December 1964 
S . O . 1308. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( L ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of sertion 3 of the Suecial Marriage Act, 1954 ( 13 of 1954 ), the Central Govern 
ment hcreby Mukes til following further amendment in the Notification ol the 
Government of India in thc Ministry of External Affairs No. S . O . 1664 , dated the 
30th June , 1960 , namely : 

In the Table below the said notification , after the entries relating to "Ghana " , 
the following shall be inserted, namely : 

- - - - - 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 


" Havana 


Charge D Affairs , Embassy of India, 
Havana" . 


and against 

Singapore 


Deputy High Commissioner for India , 
Singapore Instead of Commissioner for 
India , Singapore ." 


[No. T. 434 / 12 / 64. ] 
S . K . CHATTERJEE , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure ) 


New Delhi, the 8th December 1964 


S . O . 1309 . - Ia exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 118 of the Constitution , the President, after consultation 
with the Coinptroiler and Auditor General in respect of persons serving in the 


Sec . 8 (ll) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964/PAUSA 8 , 1886 4875 

--- - - - - - 
Indian Aunit and Accounts Department, hereby makes the following rules further 
to amend the Contributory Provident Funci Rules ( India ) , 1962 , namely : -- 

1. These Rules inay be called the Contributory Provident Fund ( India ) Eighth 
Amendment Rules, 1964 . 

2 . In the Contributory Provident Fund Rulcs ( India ) , 1962, for sub - claiisc ( iv ) 
of clause (b ) of sub -rule ( 1) of rule 38 , the following sub - clause shall be sub 
stituted , nainely :- - 
" (lv ) he shall thorelipon be entitled to count towards pension service, 

rendered prior to the date of permanent transfer , to the extent per 
missible under the relevant Pension Rules ," 

[No. F . 27 ( 21 )- EV ( B ) / 64 -CPF . ] 


New Delhi, the 9th December, 1964 
S . O . 4310 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General in respect of persons employed in 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, herely makes the following rules 
further to amend the General Provident Fund (Central Services ) Rules , 1960, 
namely : 

1 . These Rules may be called the General Provident Fund ( Central Services ) 
Ninth Amendment Rules, 1964. 


2. In the General Provident Fund ( Central Services) Rules, 1960 — 

for the clause ( ili) of sub - rule (b ) of rule 35 , the following clause shall be 
substituted , namely 
" ( ili) he shall thereupon be entitled to count towards pension , service 

rendered prior to the date of permanent transfer, to the extent per 
missiblc 1111er the relevant Pensi0 :1 Rules. " 

[NO, F . 27 ( 21 ) -EV ( B ) / 64 -GPF .1 
C . K . SUBRAMANIAN . Under Secy . 

MANIAN . U 


In 


eco 


(Department of Expenditure ) 

( Estt . IIT ( A ) Br.) 

CORRIGENDA 
In the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 10th November, 1964 in the 
Ministry of Finance ( Department of Expenditure ) Notification No. F . 2 ( 95 ) - EIII / 
62 dated the 28th October, 1964 , the following corrections shall be made, namely : 
( 1 ) Page 1075 , in Section 13, sub - section 12 , against Serial No . 6 - B "Field 

Instructor for " 250 - 10 - 300 - 15 - 450 125 / 2 — 500 " in column 3 read 

" 250 — 10 — 300 - 15 - 450 — 25 / 2 - 500 " 
( 2 ) Page 1078 , in Section 13 , in sub - section 19 , ( 1) against serial No . 39 - B 

Telephone Operator ( Clerk ) for " 93 – 3 – 131 - EB – 4 – 155" in column 4 

read " 95 - - 3 - _ 131 - EB - 4 - - 155." 
( 11 ) against serial No. 39 - C Laboratory Assistant for " 40 — 1 — 60 — 5 /2 75 

43— 90 " in column 3 read " 40 — 2 -- 00 — 5 / 2475 - - 3 - - 00 " . 
(3 ) Page 1078 , in Section 15 , sub - section 13 , for " Registrar of News paper 

in India " in column 1 read " Registrar of News Papers for India ." 
( 4 ) Page 1078 , in Section 16 , sub - section 3 for the sub - heading “ ( ii ) after 

the existin .r entry at serial number 21 , the fo lowing shall be inser 
ted , namely " road " (il) after the existing entry at serial number 27 

the following shall be inserted , namely ." 
(5 ) Page 1083, in Section 25 , sub - section 5 , against serial number 8 " Super 

intendent Orphanganj Market, Calcutta " for " 175 - 25 - 500 - EB - 30 

710 " in column 3 read " 27525 - 500 - EB - 30 _ 710 " . 


1876 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1896 [Part 11 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 . 
S . O . 4311. - 11 pursuance of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 21 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 ( 15 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, on the re 
commendation of the Board of Director s of the Industrial Finance Corporation of 
Indian hereby flxes 5 per cent per annum as the rate of interest payable on the 
bonds to be issued by the said Corporation in January , 1965 and maturing on the 
1st January , 1966 . 

[NO , F . 2 (123 ) - Corp /64.]. 

A . K . NATARAJAN , Under Secy . 
(Departmont of Economic Affalrg ) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 
S . O . 1312 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) of section 
35 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 (23 of 1955 ) and in continuation of this 
Department s notifcation No. F . 4 / 92 /61-SB dated the 15th December 1961, the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby 
directs that for the purpose of the conduct ot the business of the Bank of Baghel 
kland acquired by the State Bank of India under section 35 of the said " Act, 
during the perind between the 2311 Derember 196 + and the 31st December , 1966 
both days inclusive 
( 1 ) Section 33 of the State Bank oť India Act shall apply as if : — 
( a ) Clause ( 1 ) has been substituted by the following clouse namelv " (i ) 

the advancing and lending of money and the opening of cash credits 

with or without security " ; and 
(b ) In clalise ( iv ) , the words " upon aliy of the securities specifici in sub 

clauses ( a ) to ( d ) of clause ( 1 ) " lave been omitted and for the 
words " Ior or into any of the other investments above specified " the 

words " Tor and into any other investments " have been substituted ." 
( 2 ) The State Bank shall be exempt from clauses ( a ) and ( c ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 34 and clause ( a ) and sub - clause ( ii ) of clause (b ) of sub -section ( 3 ) 
or that Section , in so far as they preclude the State Bank from 
( i ) continuing or reallsing the loans or advances made for a periodi longer 

than six months or made against the security of immovable property ; 
( 11 ) continuing or realising the loans or advances made against any nego 

tiable instrument which does not carry on it the several responsibili 
ties of at least two persons or arms unconnected with each other in 
general partnership or does not mature within six months of the date 
of the loan or advance ." 

(No. F . 4 / 92 / 61- SB . ] 


S . O . 4313 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) of Section 
35 of the State Bank of India Act, 1955 ( 23 of 1955 ) and in continuation of this 
Department s Notification No. F . 4 / 6 / 60 - SB , dated the 18th December, 1961 the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby 
exempts the State Bank of India for the period from the 24th January 1965 to the 
23rd January 1986 , both days Inclusive, from the provision of Mauses ( a ) and ( c ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 34 of the said Act . in so far as they preclude the 
State Bank from 
( a ) continuing or realising the advances against the security of inmovable 

property made by the Manipur State Bank and taken over ly the 
State Bank under the terms and conditions of acquisition by the State 
Bank of the business of the Manipur State Bank sanctioned under 
suh - section ( 2 ) of the said section 35 by the Central Government 

by an order in writing dated the 16th May, 1958 and 
(b ) making against the security of immovable property against which the 

advances referred to above have been made, such further advances as 
the State Bank may consider necessary or expedient for ensuring or 
facilitating the recovery of the advances made by the Manipur State 
Bank and realising such further advances . 

[No. F . 4 /8 /60-SB.] 
B . J. HEERJEE , Under Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 
S . O . 4314 , -- Stateceat of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the 4th Decembir, 1964 


SEQ.B(il)] 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs 


ASTS 


- - 


- - 


- 


Capital gaid Ur 


. 


. 


5,00 ,00 ,000 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


. 


18,45 ,74 ,000 

4 ,76 ,000 
8 ,98,000 


Reserve Fund 


80003 , 00 , 000 


National Agricultural Credit (Long 

Term Operations ) Fuod . 


. 


86 00 ,00 , ono 


Notes . . . . . 
Rupee Coin . . . . . 

Small Coin 
Bills purchased and discountei : 

(2 ) Laternal 
(6 ) External 

(c ) Government Treasury Bills 
Balancss held Abroad * 
lavestments * * . 

. . 
Loans and Advances to : 

(1) Central Government 
(* ) State Goverments @ 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER26,1964/PAUSA8,1386 


National 


Agricultural 


Credit 


9 ,000 , 000 


164, 11, 44 ,000 

11, 38, 78 ,000 
117 ,51, 37 ,000 


National Iodustria ! Credit (Long 

Tera Operations) Fuod 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


10300,00 , 000 


14 42, 32 ,000 


* * Excluding investment from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund , and the National Industrial Credit (Long 
Term Operations Fund . 
Excluding Loans and Advances from th : Vrional Agriculturti Crelit ( Lng Term Operations) Fund but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governachts , 


4877 


4878 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Deposits : 


( a ) Government : 


Loans and Advances to : 
o Scheduled Bankst 

. . . . . 
( ) State Co -operative Banksti . . . . 

( ) Others . . . . . . . . 
Loans , advances and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund 


. 
. 
. 


18 , 26 , 45 , 000 
159, 39 , 59 ,000 

3. 33,93,000 


Central Government , 


. 


. 


86 , 30 ,02, 000 


( 1 ) State Governments . 


28 .09 , 41 ,000 
11, 2 ,33,000 


(6 ) Banks : 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA: 
DECEMBER26,1964/ 
PAUSA5, 
1886[ 
PART11 


4 , 45, 53 , 000 


548, 96 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to 

State Governments . . . . . . . 
(11) State Co -operative Banks . . . 

(ii) CentralLand Mortgage Banks . . . . . 
(6 ) Lovestment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures Loans 

and Advoc s from National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) 
89 ,23 , 11,000 Fund 
2,74 , 02 ,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks 
1,59 , 000 Loans , Advances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations ) Fund 
74457, 15 ,000 ( a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 

(6 ) Investment in bonds/ debeatures issued by the Deve 
46 , 14 ,34, 600 

lopment Bank . 
45, 95,59,000 

Others Assets . . . . . . . . 
610 44,78,000 

Rupees . 


) Scheduled Banks . 
(6 ) State Cooperative Banks . 
(H ) Other Banks 


(0) Others 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Bijls Payable 
Othes Liabilities 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


29 , 14 , 15 , 000 
61044,78 .250 


Rupees 


f Includes Rs. 4 ,26,00 ,000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 1764) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
ft Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credii 

( Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 9th day of December, 1964 . 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934, for the week ended the 4th day of December , 1964 

LSSO! DAPARTHONT 


LIABILITI 


Rs. 


Rs. 


• 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

meni culation 
Notes in circulation 

: : 
Total Notes issued . 


18,45, 74, 000 
2472,96,73, 000 


117, 76, 10 ,000 


2491542 ,47, 400 


85x45 ,69, 000 


Guld Coin and Bulljon 
(a ) Held in India . . . . 

(6 ) Held outside India 
Pareigo Securities 

TOTAL . . 
Rupee Colo 
Goyctament of India Rupee Securities . 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 

Commercial paper 


203,21,79, 000 

102,07, 53, 000 
2186 , 13 , 15 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


2491,42-47. 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


2491342 ,47 ,000 


P . C . BHATTACHARYYA , 

Governor . 


Dated the gth day of December, 1964 . 


No. F . 3 (2 )- EC /64- ] 


Nea Delhi, the 18th December 1964 


S . O . 4315 .- Statentatef the Afairs of the Reserve Bank of India ,as on the 4th December, 1964 . 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital paid up 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5,00 , 00 , 000 


. 


Notes . 
Rupee Coio 
Small Coin . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


9 ,69 ,55,000 

5 , 80 , 000 
9 :33,000 


Reserve Fund 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


80 , 00 , 00 , 000 


. 


NationalAgricultural Credit (Long Term Opera 

tions ) Fund 


$6 ,00, 00 ,000 


Bills purchased and discounted 

( a ) Internal 
(b) External 

( c ) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances held Abroad * . . 


National 

Fuad 


Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) 


9, 00 , 00 , 000 


136 , 03. 77 , 000 
10 , 84 , 32 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


National Industrial Credit (Legg 
Operations ) Fand . 

. . 


Tera 
. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


142 :44,71,000 


10,00 ,00, 000 


Investments * * 
Loans and Adgances to i- . . 

(1) Central Govemment 
( 1) State Governments (a ) . 


. 


31,62 : 89 ,000 


Includes Cash and Short- term Securities . 
* * Excluding investacats from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long 

Opentions Fixd . 


Temm 


(a ) Excluding Loans and Advances from the NationalAgricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fand , but includingt temporary Overdrafts 

State Ravents . 


to 


LIASILITIES 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Deposits : 


(a ) Government : 


* 23 , 30 , 20 ,coo 
159 ,63,62 ,000 

3 ,50 ,53 ,000 


Ah 


(1) Central Government . 


, 


. 


53,05240 ,00€ 


hu 


(# ) State Governments . 


, 





, 


17,82,09, 000 


Loans and Advances to : 

(1) Scheduled Bankst . 
(ir) State Co - operative Bankstit . , . 

( itt? Others . . . . . . . 
Loans , advances and Investment from National Agricultura 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to 

) State Governments 
(8 ) State Co -operative Banks ? . . . . 

( iii ) Central Land Mortgage Banks . 
(H Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 
Loans 101 4 Trance from National Agricultural Credit ( Sta 

bilisation ) Fund . 
Loans and Advances ic State Co -cperative Banks 
Loans , Advances and Investments rcm Naticcal Industrial 


: : : 7 ,000 
I1, 18 .81 ,000 


( 6 ) Banks : 


4 , 45 , 53 ,000 


(1) Scheduled Banks 
( it) State Co -operative Banks 
( iii) Other Banks . . . 


. 
. 


. 
.. 


93 , 55 , 05 ,000 
2 , 92 ,20 ,000 

4,96 , 000 


C ) Others 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


143 ,2841, 000 


. 


Bills Payable , 
Other Liabilities 


41 ,43 ,93, 000 
48 , 40 - 22 , 000 
590 ,52 ,26 ,000 


( a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . 
(6 ) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the De 

velopment Eank 
Other Assets . . . . . . , 


29 : 54 : 13 , 000 


Rupees 


. 


. 


Rupees . 


. 


590 ,52 ,26 ,000 


Includes Rs. 1, 41, 00 , 000 advanced to scheduled banks against usance bills under section 17 (4 )(c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
: fExcluding Loans and Advances from the NationalAgricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabili. 

sation ) Fund . 
Date the 16th day of December, 1964 . 


An Accountpursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week eaded the IIth day ofDecember, 1964 . 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


LLABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

ment , 
Notes in circulation : : : 

Total Votes issue ! . 


9 ,69 ,55 , 000 
2510,53, 38 ,000 


117, 76 , 10 , 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 

( a ) Held in India . 
(b) Held outside India 
Foreign Securities 


. 
. 


. 


. 


2520 , 22 , 93, 000 


85245 , 69, 000 


TOTAL , 


. 


Rupee Coin 


203 ,21 ,79 ,000 
100 , 88 , 09 , cco 
2216 , 13 , 05 , 000 


Internal Bills of Exchange and other com 

mercial paper 
2520 ,22 ,93 ,000 

TOTAL ASSETS , . 


TOTAL LUILTI * 


. 


2520 , 22 , 93 . cco 


Dated the 16th day of December , 1964. 


P. C . BHATTACHARYYA , 

Governor , 
[No. F (3)2- BC /64.] 


R . K . SESHADRI, 
Director ( Banking & Insurance ) . 


CORRIGENDUM 
In the statement of Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , Issue Department 

for the week ended the 6th November 1964 published in the Gazette 
of India dated 28th November 1964, Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) on page 
4470 , on the Assets side for the amount 2111 , 14, 32 , 000 indicated 
against Government of India Rupee Securities read - 2181, 14, 32 , 000 , 


Suc . / il) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1984 /PAUSA 5 , 1086 


8483 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 
S . O . 4810 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income-tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
bereby makes the following further amendments in the Schedule appended to its 
notification No . 49 -Income-tax , dated the 27th July , 1964 , namely : - - 

( a ) Against A Range , Indore , under column 2 , and 12 . Mandsaur. 
( b ) Against B Range, Indore , under column 2, 

(i) the existing entry at S . No. 9 shall be deleted and 
( il ) the remaining entries at $ . Nos, 10 and 11 shall be renumbered as 9 

and 10 . 
( c ) Against Nagpur Range under column 2 , add 14 . Special Investigation 
Circle - D , Nagpur . 

Explanatory Note : 
The amendments to the existing Schedule have become necessary on account 
of redistribution of work amongst the Appellate Assistant Commissioners of 
Income-tax and creation of an additional Circle known as Special Investigation 
Circle D Ward, Nagpur in the Commissioner s charge. 

( This note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarificatory ) . 

[ No . 81 (F , No .-30 / 11/ 64 -ITJ.] 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1964 
S . O . 4317 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income Tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and in supersession of all previous 
notification in this regard , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that 
the Appellate Assistant Commissioners of Income- tax of the Ranges specified in 
column 1 of the Schedule below , shall perform their functions in respect of all 
persong and incomes assessed to Income- tax or Super - tax in the Income-tax Cir 
cles, Wards and Districte specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 there . 
of: - 

SCHADULE 


Range 


Income-tax Circles , Wards and Districts 


(Central) Range I, Calcutta . . Central Circles I to X , Calcutta . 
(Central) Range II , Calcutta . , CentralCircles XI to XX and XXII, Calcutta . 


Where an Income - tax Circle, Ward and District or part thereof stands trang 
ferred by this notification from one range to another range , appeals arising out of 
aşgeggments made in that Income- tax Circle , Ward or District or part thereof and 
pending iramediately before the date of this notification before the Appellate Ag 
sistant Commissioner of the Range from whom that Income-tax Circle , Ward or 
District or part thereof is transferred shall, from the date this notification shall 
take effect, be transferred to and dealt with by the Appellate Assistant Commis 
sioner of the Range to whom the said Circle , Ward or District or part thereof lg 
transferred . 

Explanatory Note 
The amendment has become necessary on account of the creation of a new Cir 
cle in the Commissioner s Charge , 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but la intended to be 
nerely clarificatory ) . 

(No. 82 ( F .No. 50 / 112 /64 -ITJ. ) 
T . N . PANDEY , Under Secy . 


4884 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [PAKT II 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 
S . O . 4318 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of Essential 
Commodities Act 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order further to amend the Cotton Textiles ( Control ) Order , 1948 , 
namely : 

1. This Order may bo called as Cotton Textiles (Control) Sixth Amendment 
Order , 1964, 

2. In the Cotton Textiles ( Control) Order, 1948 , in sub - clause (8 ) of clause 12, 
the following proviso shall be inserted , namely : 
“ Provided that nothing in this sub -clause shall apply to a person destring 

to acquire and install spindles for the purpose of spinning yarn 
solely from cotton waste of counts 10s and below ." 

[No. T . 10 / 305 / 64 - Tex ( B ). ] 
B . K . VARMA, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY AND SUPPLY 
(Department of Industry ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19th December 1964 
S . O . 4319 /ECA / 1 /64 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the 
Essential Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the powers conferred on it by section 3 of the said Act to make orders 
under clauses ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( f ) , ( h ) and (j ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of that section shail, 
in relation to cement, be exercisable also by the Lieutenant Governor of Goa , 
Daman and Diu ; Provided that 
( i ) no such order shall be made by the Lieutenant Governor of Goa , Daman 

and Diu without the prior approval of the Central Government; and 
(ii) no order made by the Lieutenant Governor of Goa , Daman and Diu in 

exercise of the aforesaid powers shall have effect in so far as it is 
repugnant to any order made under the said sub - section by the 
Central Government. 

[No. 14 - 2 /03 -Cem . II. ] 
R . K . RANGAN , Under Secy, 


der made by theresaid powers wheel the said s 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1964 


S . O . 4320 . - In licence No. CM / L - 701 dated 26 June 1964 held by M / s Godrej 
Soaps Pvt. Ltd . of Vikhroli, Bombay -79 having their Regd , office at 316 Delisle 
Road , Bombay - 11 the details of which were published under S . O . 2590 in the 
Gazette of India , Part II , sub -section 3 ( li) dated 1st August 1964 Stearic Acid , 
Technical, Grade 1 has been included w . e .f. 1st November 1984 . 

[No. MD / 12 : 1381. ] 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 


S . O . 4321 - Inpartial modification of the then Ministry of Commerce and Industry ( Indian 
Standards Institution ) gotification published under S . 0 , 3817 dated Toth December 1962 in the 
Gazette of India Part II , Section 3 , Sub - Section ( 11) dated 22nd December 1962 , the 
Ialian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the marking fee per unit for Preformed Fillers 
for Expansion Joints , details of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed . 
has been revised . The revised rate of marking fee shall come into force with effect from 
Ist October 1964. 


Src , 9( 11)] 


THE 


ITE 


THE SCHEDULE 


of 


Serial 

No . 


Product / Class 

Product 


No. and Title of Rele 
vant Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Pec 

per Unit 


3 


Io Paige 


I Preformed Fillers IS : 1838 - 1961 Specifica - One Square 

For Expansion foint tion for Preformed Mette 
Io Concrete Non - Fillers for Expansion 
Extruding And Re Joint in Concrete 
silicnt Type (Bitų Non - Extruding And 
men Impregnated Resilient Type (Bitu 
Fibre ) 

men - Impregnated Fib 
re ) 


[No. MD /18 :2 ] 
D . V . KARMARKAR , 

Joint Director (Marks ) 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND OHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 15th December , 1964 
S . O . 4322 , - Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from the Ankleshwar Oli 
field in Gujarat State to Baroda in Gujarat State , pipelines should be laid by the 
Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying such pipelines , 
It is necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

2. Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) the Central Government hereby deciares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

3. Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
hompetent authority at Elampeco , 4th Floor Sayajiganj Opp . College Lokmanya 
Tilak Road , Baroda in the office of the Gujarat Pipeline Project , Oll and Natural 
Gas Commission . Every person making such an objection shall also state speci 
fically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 
State - Gujarat 

District - - Baroda 

Taluka --- Baroda 


Village 


Acre 


Survey 

No. 


Guntha 


Sq . Yds. 


Undera 


Road 


I00 
88 


оорооооооооо 


HOWKNOvunO 


Road 


4886 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 8, 1886 [PART II 


Village 


Survey 
No. 


Acre 


Guntha 


Sq . Yds. 


Chhani 


619 / 1 
Road 
618 
618 /P 
693 
625 


OOOOOOOO 


683 


8 . 0 , 4323 , — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum between Barauni Refinery 
In Bihar State and Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh State , a pipeline should be laid by 
the Indian Oil Corpn , Limited and that for the purpose of laying such a pipeline, 
1t 18 necessary to acquire the right of user in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 


2 . Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notification , object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the com 
petent authority at 7 / 160 Swarup Nagar, Kanpur. Every person making such an 
objection shall also stato specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or 
by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


State Uttar Pradesh 


Tahsil – Kanpur 


District - Kanpur 


Village 


Survey No. 


Extent 


Survey No. 


Extent 


1. Satbari 


. 


. 


. 


. 


404 
414 


. 297 

300 / 2 
398 
401 
402 
403 


B . B . B . 
0 0 5 
0 6 TO 
O 13 0 
ο Ιο Ιο 
0 I TO 
ο Ιο το 


417 


B . B . B . 
0 6 5 
O 12 10 
O 18 IO 
0 6 10 
o 6 0 
ο 12 το 


418 


461 


462 


2 . Nagwan 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


50 


M 


0 


6 


0 


3 . Nlwada Bausar 


337 


: 


294 
329 / 1 
336 


0 2 0 
O I 8 
oo 10 


0 
o 


O 10 
O 12 


343 


4 . Tharepa 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


5 


0 
0 


2 IO 
3 10 


119 
I21 
125 


0000000 OHOOOOHW 


0 5 
о то 
O 10 
O IO 


138 
140 
203/ 3 
265 
266 
270 
280 
290 


OOOOOOOO 
HHUMHOOH 


126 


127 
129 


O IO 


Stc . (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA B , 1886 


4887 


Village 


Survey No 


Survey No 


Extent 


Extent 
B . B . B . 


B . B . B . 


$ . Pooranpur 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


194 
196 
200 
315 


729 
734 
753 
770 
771 


330 


331 


OOAKO 


793 


795 


I 15 


365 


I 


ΟΙ 


591 


595 


696 
699 
701 


961 
963 
967 
968 
981 
982 


728 


10000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO HUOHAMNovumwakwOOHNOLOOHOOANOHOO 

00000000000015850vuonnonännu 


00000000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
OONamnmono 
monoOMHANOOHOOON 990909 
noonnonooonnooongorio999n 


6 . Karbigwan . 


AD 


. 


. 


647 


OOona 


102 / 1 
105 / 1 
106 / 2 
349/2 
349/ 3 
350 
359/ 3 
360 / 3 
371/ 1 
615 
617 / 2 
617 / 3 
620 
622 
623 


648 
705 
709 
712 
714 
715 
719 
721 
722 


1964 


1965 / 1 
1965/ 2 
1966 


7 . Sikathiya Purwa 


, 


. 


. 


1865 


o 26 


8 . Nau Gawan 


. 


. 


. 


04 0 


Ι Ο 
I IO 

o 


1543 
1544 
1549 / 1 
1549 / 2 
I $ 50 
1552 


1253 


1258 
1262 
1277 
1282 
1290 
1295 
1319 
1320 
1362 / 3 
136214 
1363 
1435 
1445 
1448 / 1 
1536 
1542 


0000000000000000 W-OWNHUHNOHHOW 0000000000000 


1669 / 9 
1671 


000000000OOOOOOO 


1726 
1727 
1729 


O 2 IO 
06 to 
0 1 0 
o oto 
Ο Ι Ο 

7 


1759 


1 
3 


1765 


[ No. 31 / 50 / 63 - ONG .I 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 
S . O , 4324 . In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 3792 dated the 23rd October, 
1984, published in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( li) , dated 
the 31st October, 1984 in village Dumrawn T . No. 168 read extent 0 : 02 acre for 
0 -20 are against Plot No. 661. 

[No. 31/ 47 / 63 -ONG -6 -Bux.] 


4888 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1888 [PART II 


ci 


S . O . 4828 . - - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 3789 , dated the 23rd October . 
1964, published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( it ) , dated 
the 31st October , 1964 : 
( 1) In Village Khelafapur T. No. 38, read Plot No. 891 for 981 against ex 

tent 0 :08 acre. 
( 2 ) In Village Nayayapur T . No. 33 read extent 0 : 055 acre for 0 .045 Acre 

against Plot No . 121 , 
( 9 ) In Village Khelafapur T . No. 138 Plot No . 867 with extent 0 - 953 acre 

has been published twice and one entry relating thereto small be 
deleted . 

[No. 31 / 47 / 63- 0NG / 10 -Bux. ) 
8 . 0 , 4326 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Gevernment of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 3728 , dated the 8th October, 
1964, published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii) , dated 
the 24th October , 1984 ; 
1 . In Village Ghanshampur T . No. 136 read Plot No. 405 extent 0 . 04 acre 

instead of 0 . 05 acre. 
2 . In Village Babupur T . No. 137 read Plot No. 748 extent 0 .069 Instead of 

0 .088 acre. 
3. In Village Neuri T . No . 76 , read extent 0- 09 acre against survey plot No. 
1224 for survey plot No . 122 . 

[ No. 31 / 47/ 88- ONG- 2 - PAT.] 
8 . 0 . 4527. - In eine Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry o ? Petroleum and Chemicals 3 .0 . No, 3791, dated the 23rd October , 
1984 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ü ) , dated 
the 313 October , 1984 : 
1 . In Village Kutubpur T . No. 6, read Plot No. 165 for Plot No 163 against 

extent " 0 -695 " acres . 
In Village Gobindpur T , No. 16 , read Plot No. 384 for 348 against extent 

0 .085 acres. 
3. In Village Banklpur T . No. 18 , read extent 0 .02 acres for 0 .20 acres against 

Plot No. 420 . 
4 . Read Village Mirjapur Nohta instead of Mirjapur Mohta . 

[ No. 3 / 47 / 63 - ONG - 8 - PAT. 
S . O . 4328 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals $ . 0 . No. 3822, dated the 27th October, 
1964 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub -section (11), dated 
the 7th November, 1984 : 
1, In Village Shahpur T . No. 155 Tead Plot No. 681 for 611 against extent 

0 :07 acre . 
2. In Village Rukunpura T . No. 165 read extent 0- 125 acre for 0 . 4125 area 

against Plot No. 451 
3. In Village Majhaull T. No . 167 read extent 0 . 05 acre for 0 . 005 acre 

against Plot No. 774 . 
4. In Village Champapur T . No. 146 read Plot No. 845 for 945 against extent 
0 :09 acre. 

[ No, 31 / 47 / 63 - ONG- 10 - PAT. 
S . O . 4329 . - In the Schedule to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 3818 , dated the 26th October , 
1984 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section (! i), dated 
the 7th November, 1964 : 
1. In Village Dehri T . No. 345 read extent 0. 06 acre for 0 . 05 acre against 

Plot No. 88 . 
2 . In Village Dehri T . No. 345 read extent 0 . 55 acre for 0 . 06 acre against 

Plot No. 89 . 
3 . In Village Chaursan ! T . No . 231, read extent 0 . 09 acre for 30 . 09 acre 

against Plot No . 355 . 
4 . In Village Kalyanpur T . No. 229 read Plot No. 416 for 516 against extent 

| [ No. 37 / 47/ 83- ONG- 8- AR 
P . P . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF CIVIL AVIATION 


New Delhi , the 15th December 1964 


$ . 0 . 4350.- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 6 of the Aircraft Act, 1934 ( 22 of 1934) and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and Com 
munications (Departments of Communications and Civil Aviation ) No. 10 - A / 63-60 
dated the 28th June, 1962 , the Central Government, being of the opinion that it 
is in the interests of public safety so to do, hereby orders that no aircraft, other 
than an aircraft engaged in a scheduled air transport service, shall make flights 
into , or in transit across , the territory of India save in accordance with the follow 
ing conditions which shall be observed by every person in charge of such aircraft 
or otherwise assisting in the flight thereof, namely : 


- 1 . Every gueh aircraft ghall, immediately upon entry into India , and without 
a prior landing elsewhere in India , be flown to and landed at 


( a ) 11 the entry is from the West, Bombay (Santa Cruz ) Airport, Calcutta 

(Dum Dum ) Airport, or Madras (St. Thomas Mount) Airport ; and it 
the entry is from the West via Karachi Airport , from the East or 
the South , or trom Pakistan , Bombay (Santa Cruz) Airport, Calcutta 
(Dum Dum ) Airport, Tiruchirappalli Alrport , Delhi (Palam ) Airport , 

Madras (St. Thomas Mount) Airport or Ahmedabad Airport ; 
(b ) il the entry is from Nepal, Calcutta ( Dum Dum ) Airport, Delhi ( Palam ) 

Airport, Patna Airport, Varanasi (Babatpur) Airport, Bombay (Santa 
Cruz ) Airport or Ahmedabad Airport : 


Provided that the aircraft entering from the West may land direct at Delhi 

( Palam ) Airport subject to the following conditions, namely : 
( 1 ) All persons on board coming from yellow fever Infected areas ag de 

clared by the Central Government shall be in possession of valld 

international certificates against yellow fever . 
( 2 ) The aircraft shall have been disinfected at the commencement of the 

journey in accordance with the procedure laid down in Schedule VI 
of the Indian Aircraft ( Public Health ) Rules, 1954 , or the procedure 

recommended by the World Health Organization . 
( 3 ) The Pilot- in -Command of the aircraft shall send a radio message three 

hours before arrival about the state of health of any person on 
board , who has visited a yellow fever infected Area , as declared by 
the Central Government, within the previous nine days and who is 

not in possession of a valid yellow fever certificate , 
(4 ) It , on Inspection of the aircraft, the Airport Health Officer detects any 

person or crew suspected to be intected with yellow fever due to any 
reason , the Airport Health Onicer may direct the Pllot - in -Command 
of the aircraft to proceed to Calcutta or Bombay or any other place 
as may be designated by the Alrport Health Officer and the Pilot 

in -Command of the aircraft shall obey any such direction . 
8 ) The Central Government shall not be llable for any loss or damage 

whatsoever arising out of the diversion of the aircraft or for any 
other reasons : 


Provided also that no trafic shall be set down in India except as under and 
with the prior permission of the Director General of Civil Aviation , India : - - 
(1) 11 the entry lo from the West, at Delhi (Palam ) Airport or Bombay 

( Santa Cruz ) Airport ; 
(11) if the entry is from the East, at Calcutta (Dum Dum ) Alrport. Alrcraft 

from Singapore may also get down traffic at Madras ( St. Thomas 

Mount) Airport; 
( it ) it the entry is from the South , at Madras (St. Thomas Mount) Airport 

or Tiruchirappali Airport ; and 
( iv ) if the entry is from Nepal, at Calcutta (Dum Dum ) Alrport, Delhi 

(Palam ) Airport, Patna Alrport or Varapagl (Babatpur ) Airport. 


( PART 11 


2. The aircraft, after such landing, shall not proceed further unless the pilot 
has obtained a clearance certificate in writing from an officer duly authorised by 
the Central Government in this behalt : 

Provided that the Central Government may by general or special order exempt 
any aircraft or class of aircraft generally or for any speciiled Aight from the pro 
visions of this Order, 

[No. F . 10- A / 101 -02. ] 

K . GOPALAKRISHNAN , Dy. Secy . 
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 28th November 1964 
S .O . 4881. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 36A of the Indian 
Electricity Act , 1910 ( 9 of 1910 ) , the Central Government is pleased to nominate 
Shri K . G . R . Iyer , Joint Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry of Irri 
gation and Power , as the Chairman of the Central Electricity Board , vice Shri 
M . K . Kidwal. 

[No. EL - II-9 ( 2) /64.] 
B . C . GANGOPADHYAY , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

ANHAEOLOGY, 

New Delhi, the 17th December, 1964 
$ . 0 . 4332 . — Whereas by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Education No. F , 4 - 25 /84. C . 1 , dated the 25th July , 1904, published in Part II , 
Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India , dated the 1st August, 1964, the 
Central Government gave notice of its intention to declare the archaeological 
monument specified in the Schedule below to be of national Importance. 

And whereas no objections have been received to the making of such declara 
tion , 

Now , therefore , im exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
soction 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1988 ( 24 of 1968 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said archaeological 
monument to be of national importance . 

SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


State 


Tchsil 


Locality 


Name of monument 

Site 


I Jammu and 

Kashmir 


Thalera village 


Temple of Devi Bhagwat 

together with adjacent 
land comprised in 
Survey plot Nos . 
2000 , 2080 , 2081, 
2083, 2084 , 2085 and 
2086 . 


ren 


Boundaries 


Ownership 


Remarks 


Revenue plot 
number to be 
included under 
protection 


10 


II 


Survey plot N . 
2005 , 2080 , 
2081, 2083 , 
2084 , 2085 and 
2086 . 


15 Kenals North : Survey Survey Plot No. Under religions 
and 6 Plot No, 2082 2084 including use . 
Marlas 

the temple is vil 
East : Survey Plot lage property and 
Nos. 1994 and remaining area un 
1995 

der private owner 

ship . 
South : Survey 

Plot Nos . 2092 , 
2091, 2089, 2088 

and 2087 
West : Survey Plot 
Nos , 2070 , 2079 and 
2087 

[No. 4 - 25 / 84 - C . 1.1 


Sec. $ (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4891 


New Delhi, the 18th December 1964 
S . O . 4333,- Whereas by notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Education No. F . 4 - 26 /64. C . 1, dated the 25th July , 1964, published in Part II , 
Section 3 , sub - section ( it) of the Gazette of India dated the 1st August, 1964, the 
Central Government gave notice of its intention to declare the archaeological 
monument specified in the Schedule below to be of national Importance . 

And whereas no objections have been received to the making of such declara 
tion . 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 4 of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 
1958 ( 24 of 1958 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said archaeological 
Inonument to be of national importance , 


SCHEDULE 


1892 


Sl. No. State District 


Tehsi 


Locality 


Name of mong - 

ment site 


Revente plot number to be 

included under protection 


Area 


Boundaries 


Ownership 


Remarks 


I. 


8 


9 


10 


II 


1 . 


2 

3 4 
Jammu Anantgag Agantnag Ranbelpur Ancient temple of 

Ancient temple of 
and 

Martand together 
Kashmir 

with adiacent land 
comprised in sur 
Fey plot No. rogo 


Whole of survey 

plot No . 1050 


Not in re 
ligious use . 


71 Kanals North : Survey Plot Gover - 

and 8 Nos . 1061, 1057 , ment 
Metlas 1051 and 1015 

10Sando 
East : Survey Plot Nos . 

1259 and 1179 . 
Soutk : Survey Plot No . 

1179 . 
West : Surrey Plot Nos. 
1048 and 1049 


M 


[No. F . 4 -26 / 64. C . 1. ] 

S . J. NARSLAN , 
Assistant Educational Adviser. 


ALGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER28,1964/PAUSA6,1886(PARTII 


SEC , 8( ID)) 


THE OAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA ), 1880 


1893 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1964 
8 . 0 , 4884. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 and 
sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central 
Government hereby re -appoints Smt. Raji Rangachary , after consultation with the 
Ceatral Board of Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said : 
Board at Madras with effect from 6th November, 1964 . 

[No. F . 11(4) /63-TC .) 
H . N . AGARWAL , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agrioulture ) 

(LC. A . R .) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 
S . O . 4335. Under Section 4 (x ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 ( 14 of 1929 ) , 
the Central Government are pleased to appoint Shri S . S . Puri, Secretary 
National Cooperative Development Corporation , C -56, South Extension , Part II, 
New Delhi- 16 to be member of the Indian Central Cotton Committee upto 318t 
March , 1965 vice Shri N . P . Chatterji. 

[No. 1- 11/64 - Com III. ) 
N . K . DUTTA , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION 

(Department of Cooperation ) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 
S . O . 4336 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5B of the Multi 
Unit Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 (6 of 1942) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Community Development and Coopera 
tion , (Department of Cooperation ) , No. S . O . 1593 , dated the 28th June, 1961, 
published at page 1555 of Part II Section 3 ( ii) of the Gazette of India of the 8th 
July , 1981, namely : 

In the said notification against Serial No. 11 for the entry " Shri V . R . Mehta " 
the entry " Shri H . M . Joshi" shall be substituted . 

[No. 3 - 14 /64 -CT.] 
A . C . BANDOPADHYAY, Dy. Secy , 


DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SECURITY 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 
S . O . 4337. - Whereas the Central Government was satisfled that 

1 . M / s. Jindal Steel Works. 
2 . M / s . Jain Steel Rolling Mills . 
3 . M / s . Banarsi Dass Brij Lal Jain . 
4 . M / s . Metro Cycle Indus, 
5 . M / s . Dilshad Manufacturing Indug. 
6 . M / s . R - Habib -Ullah and Sons. 

7. M / s. Rawat & Bros . 
were situated in the Malerkotla which area was a sparse area ; ( that is , an area 
whose insurable population was less than 500 ) in the district of Sangrur in the 
State of Punjab ; 


4894 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964/ PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART 11 


2 . And, whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area , the aforesaid 
factories were granted exemption from the payment of the employers special 
contribution under section 737 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 194 
of 1948 ) until the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that 
area, by the Central Government in the Ministry of Labour and Employment vide 
notification No. S . O . 135 dated the 5th January , 1962 ; 

3 . And , whereas the Central Government is now satisfied that the insurable 
population of the Malerkotla area in the District of Sangrur in the State of Punjab 
has now exceeded 500 and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

4 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government 


January , 1962 , namely , 


In the Schedule to the said notification , against serial No. 15 , the entry 

" Malerkotla " under column No . 3 and the entries under column No. 4 
relating thereto shall be omitted , 

[No. F . 8 ( 73 ) / ( 1 -HI.) 


8 . 0 . 4338 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 87 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts 
the 132 KV Grid Sub - station of the Damodar Valley Corporation , at Patna 
( Jakkanpur ) , from all the provisions of the said Act , except Chapter VA , for a 
further period upto and including the 10th November , 1968 . 

[No. F . 6 ( 125 ) / 63 -HI. ) 
S . O . 4839 , - Whereas the Government of the State of Rajasthan has , in pur 
guance of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of section 4 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , nominated Dr. P . L . Rishi, Director , Medical and 
Health Services , Rajasthan as a Member of the Employees state Insurance Cor 
poration to represent that Government vice Dr. S . C . Mehte . 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour and Employment, No. S . O . 1879 dated the 11th June, 1962 , namely : 

In the said notincation , under the heading “ Members " , under the gub -heading 
“ [ Nominated by the State Government under clause ( d ) of section 4 ]" , in Item 
19 for the entry " Dr, S . C . Mehta " , the entry " Dr. P . L . Rishl" shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 1 / 49 / 64 -HI. ] 


8 . 0 . 4340 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of Lidia 
in the Department of Social Security No . S . O . 3446 dated the 18th Septeinber , 
1964 , namely 
In the Schedule to the said notification , against Serial No. 1, under column 

4 , for the entries " 1. P . W . D . ( B and R ) Workshop " and " 2 . P . W . D ., 
(Dand R ) Workshop " the entry " P . W . D . ( B and R ) Workshop , Mala 
Road , Purana Telghar , Kotah " shall be substituted . 

[No. F . 6 ( 70 ) / 63 -HI.) 


S . O . 4341, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 79F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the , 
following further amendments in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. 895 dated the 4th March , 1984 
namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notincation , 
(1) against serial No. 3 , the entry " Pachora ” occurring in column 3 and the 

entry relating thereto in column 4 shall be omitted ; 
(11 ) against serial No. 7, the entry " Lonawala " occurring in column 3 and 
the entry relating thereto in column 4 shall be omitted . 

[No, F . 7 ( 15 ) / 62 - HI. ] 


Sto . (i )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964/ PAUSAI, IRRO 


4895 


$ . O . 4342. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the 
Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No , S . O . 2865 dated the 2nd 
November , 1961, namely : 
In Schedule IV to the said notification , 
(1) against serial No. 9 the entry " Pachora" occurring in column 4 and the 

entries relating thereto in column 5 shall be omitted ; 


the entries relating thereto in column 5 shall be omitted ; 
( III ) against serial No. 18 , the entry " Vengurla " occurring in column 4 and 
the entries relating thereto in column 5 shall be omitted . 

[No. F . 6 ( 141 ) / 59-HI. ) 


S . O . 4843. Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that 

1. M / s. Jeypore Timber and Veneer Mills Ltd ., 
2 . M / s . N . P . Ray s Veneers and 

3. M / s . Sarda Plywood Industries ( P ) Ltd . 
are all situated in the Jeypore area which was a sparse area ( that is , an area 
whose insurable population was less than 300 ) in the district of Lakhimpur in 
the State of Assam ) ; 

2 . And , whereas by virtue of their location in a sparse area, the aforesaid 
factorles were granted exemption from the payment of the employers special 
contribution under section 73F of the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 94 
of 1948 ) until the enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the Act in that 
area by the Central Government in the Ministry of Labour and Employment vide 
notification No. S .O . 845 dated the 16th March , 1962; 


3 . And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable popula 


exceeded 500 and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

4 . Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
inakes the following amendments in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S .O . 845 dated the 16th March , 
1962, namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification , against serial No . 7 , the entry 

Jeypore under column 3 and the entries relating thereto in column 
4 ghall be omitted . 

[No, F . 6 (79 ) / 61 -HI. ) 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 


$ . 0 , 4344 .-. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. 2843 dated the 24th Septem 
ber , 1963, namely — 


In the Schedule to the said notification , 
(1) against serial No. 4, the entry Pachora occurring in column 3 and the 

entries relating thereto in column 4 shall be omitted . 
( 4 ) against serial No. 12 , the entries Lonawala and Sewanagar occurring 

in column 3 and the respective entries relating thereto in column 4 

shall be omitted ; 
( 111) against serial No. 13 the entry Vengurla occurring in column 3 and 
the entries relating thereto in column 4 shall be omitted , 

[No. F . 6 (111 ) /63-HI. ) 


4896 


THE GABETZ OF INDIA . : DECEMBER 20, 


[ PART U 


8 . 0 , 4345 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. $ . O . 137 dated the 9th 
January , 1962 namely : 


In the said notlication , 
(1 ) in the entries against serial No. 2 , in the entries under column 4 , 

against the entry " Bagasara" under column 3 for " Bagasara Oil Mill" 
" Bagasara Power House " shall be substituted : 


(11) in the entries against serial No. 3 - - for " 5 . Bharat Quarry Construction " 

under column No. 4 , the following entries shall be inserted respec 
tively under columns 3 and 4 namely : 


" 3 


Chitrasani 


1 . Bharat Quarry 

Construction 


( III) in the entries against serial No. 5 - In the entries under column 4 

against the area " Palitana " for " Concrete Works " Palitana Concrete 
Works shall be substituted ; 


(lv ) in the entries against serial No. 12 
( a ) for " 3 Natvarlal Ambalal & Co ." under column No. 4 , against the 

entry " Vadod " under column no . 3 , the following entries shall be 
inserted respectively under columns 3 and 4 namely : 


4 


Gopalpura 


1 . Natvarlal Ambalal & Co," 


( b ) in the entry under column No. 4 against the entry " Kapadwanj" in 

column 3 , for "Mafatlal Oil Mill" , " Mafatlal Kantilal and Co . Oil 

Mills " , shall be substituted ; 
( c ) for the entry " 1 . M / s . Naranbhai Madhusudan & Bros" under column 

4 against the entry " Sarsa " under column 3 , the entry " 1. M / s . 
Narharibhai Madhusudan & Bros ." shall be substituted . 


[No. F . 6 ( 72 ) /61-HI,] 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1964 


S . O . 4346. — - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that each of the 
factories established or acquired by the Central Government in the Ministry of 
Detence since the 1st July 1953 and situated in such areas where the provisions 
of Chapter V of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , have not 
yet been enforced , is both non - commercial and non - competitive in nature ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts each of the said factories from the 
payment of the Employers special contribution leviable under Chapter V A of the 
said Act . 


[No. 6 / 2 / 64 -HI. ] 


SEC . 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 20 ; 1964/ PAUSA 8, 1888 


4897 


S . O . 4347. Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees in 
each of the factories established or acquired by the Central Government since the 
18th March , 1954 and under the control of the Ministry of Defence are in receipt of 
benefits substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts each of the said factories from the 
operation of the Act . 

[No. 6 / 2 /64 -HI.] 


S . O . 4348. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri Abraham George to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Mysore for the purposes of the said Act or of any Scheme framed 
thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the control of 
the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected with a 
railway company, a mine or an oil field or a controlled industry . 


[No. 20 (86) / 64 -PF - I. ] 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1964 


$ .0 . 4349 . — In the notification of the Government of India in the Department of 
Social Security , No. S . O . 3287, dated the 2nd September , 1964 , published on page 
9546 in Part II, Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii) of the Gazette of India , dated the 12th 
September , 1964, in the Schedule , 


I. In the entries under column 3 , 

(1) against serial number 1, 


(a ) for Chengannoor read Changannur 
(b ) for Pallipuram Shertallay read Pallippuram Shertallay 
(c ) for Muttathukadvavu read Muttathukadavu Sheitallay 


Thalkkattusseri Shertallay ; 


( d ) for " Thaikkattuseri Shertallay read 
( il) pgainst serial number 2 , 


(a ) for “ Thodupuzha read " Thodopuzha . 


II. In the entries under column 4 , 


(1) against serial number 1, 
( a ) for "Hevi and Sankar Metal Factory, Mundancav read Ravi and 

Sankar Match Factory, Mundancavu 
( b ) for Vecyana Trades and Industries , Manappuram read Veeyans 

Trades and Industries , Manappuram . , 


[No. F . 0 (53 )/ 64-HI. ] 
SHAH AZIZ AHMAD , Dy . Secy . 


4298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1888 [PART II 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 
S . O . 4960. . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under Section 33A of the 
said Act, from Shri Dukhi Sadhu (Harijan ), under -ground Loader, Adjal II Collery , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 7th December , 1964, 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ; CALCUTTA 

M18C . APPLICATION NO. 10 or 1964 

Under Section 33A of I. D . Act. 

(Arising out of Reference No . 18 of 1963) 
PARTIES : 

Shri Dukhi Sadhu (Harijan ) Underground Loader, Adjai II Colffery - Appli 

cant. 


Vs. 


The Manager, Adjai II Colliery - Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant -- Shri Ajit Mazumdar , Advocate . 

On behalf of Opp . Party - Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate. 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 


AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The applicant has Aled this application alleging inter alia that the Opposite 
party had been quilty of contravention of the provisiong of Section 33 of the Indug 
trial Disputes Act ; that the applicant was working ag Underground Loader ; that he 
was gummarily dismissed by a letter dated 11th June 1964 ; that the Opposite Party 
has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they had , during the pen 
dency of Reference No. 18 of 1963 , dismissed the applicant without obtaining express 
permission in writing from this Tribunal, The applicant, therefore , prayed that the 
Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the applicant with back wages. 

3 . The Opposite party , by its written statement, has contended inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman concerned in Reference No . 18 of 1963 and as such 
he was not competent to Ale the present application which is not legally maintain 
able as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. 

4 . At the request of both parties , the above point has been heard as a prell 
minary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workman concerned in Refer 
ence No . 18 of 1963. It is not in dispute that the Government made the above 
reference to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the 
Tribunal gave its award on 28th August 1964 . It is also not in dispute that the 
present applicant was dismissed during the pendency of the above Reference. What 
is , however , in digpute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned in the 
above Reference and therefore the employers were not bound to obtain permission 
of the Tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act before taking 
Action against him and hence they had not contravened the provisions thereof by 
dismissing the workman without taking permission of the Tribunal. 

5 . Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an Industrial dis 
pute , the employer may , in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
workman concerned in such dispute, discharge or punish , whether by dismissal or 


SEC, 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1896 4899 

- - - - - - -- - 
otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . There 
is a provigo to this Sub - section which requires that the workman cannot be discharg 
ed or dismissed without payment of wages for one month and without an applica 
tion being made by the employers to the Tribunal for approval of their action . 
Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was any permission 
or approval taken from this Tribunal. The employer s contention is that this Sub 
section applies only where the workman who is to be disinissed is a workman cun 
cerned in the dispute regarding which proceedings are pending before a Tribunal . 
It was urged that the present applicant was not a workman concerned in the above 
Reference and hence no such permission was necessary . On the other hand , the 
applicant s contention is that all workmen employed by the employers should be 
deemed to be concerned in the dispute because the Reference was made as a dispute 
was existing between the employers and all their workmen . It was therefore 
argued that all workmen must be deemed to be concerned in the earlier Reference . 


6 . Before proceeding further, I may mention that Reference No. 18 of 1963 was 
for adjudication of the following questions, namely , whether the action of the 
management in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and if not, to what relief 
he was entitled . It would thus appear that the dispute was regarding an individual 
workman . No doubt it was an industrial dispute , as it was taken up by other work 
men also ; but the workman concerned in that dispute would be only Murli Ahir and 
none else . 


7 . Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the 
Supreme Court in the case of New India Motors, ( Private ) Lid . Vs. Morris (KT.) , 
1960 I LLJ 551. In that case the Supreme Court held that the expression concerned 
in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who are directly 
concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would include all 
workmen on whose behalf the dispute had been raised as well as those who would 
be bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute . 


8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party on 
pro subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court namely ( 1 ) Upper Ganges Valley 
Electricity Supply Company , Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava , 1963 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Digwadih 
Colliery Vs. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143. In the first of these cases, il dispute 
regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual workman 
WAS referred for adjudication , An appeal against the resulting award made on the 
Reference was pending . During the pendency of that appeal, a workman who was 
employed as a Fireman was dismissed and he thereupon made a complaint under 
Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act. It may be noted 
here that the wording of Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) 
Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Art. It was 
held by the Supreme Court that this application was not maintainable as the apoli 
mant was not a workman concerned in the above appeal which related to an indivi 
dual dispute of one emplovee. The Supreme Court s view appears to be that though 
all workmen mav be considered to be a party to the dispute , they cannot all he said 
to be " concerned " in such dispute . Only the persons who are subject matter of the 
Reference would be the persons concerned in such dispute . In the above Supreme 
Court case, the person relating whose annual increment the matter was referred for 
adjudication was the workman ( oncerned in the dispute . 


9 . The Digwadih Colliery case was a case uncler Section 33 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act. A person was dismissed from service during the pendency of a Reference 
Hefore the Industrial Tribunal. It appears that the person who was dismissed was 
a clerk while the pending Reference was regarding Chaprasis and watchman and it 
was on this ground that the employers contended that the applicant was not a 
workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no evidence on this point 
and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court 
held that even if this clarification was not made before it, it was necessary for the 
applicant to satisfy the Tribunal by proving the nature of the dispute pending in 
the earlier Reference before asking the Tribunal to make a Anding in his favour 
under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such evidence the Tribunal would not be 
justifed in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) applied and have been contravened . If the 
contention of the applicant that all workmen must be deemed to be workmen con 
cerned in the pending Reference were accepted , it would not be necessary for the 
Tribunal to go into the nature of the dispute pending in the earlier Reference. 

10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred for 
adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named in the 
Reference . The Supreme Court observed that it was an individual dispute in 
respect of one employee and so the respondent in that case could not be said to be 


4900 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA % , 1886 [PART II 

- 

- - - 
concerned with that dispute . These remarks would apply to the facts of the present 
case because the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal was regarding 
the dismissal of an individual workman and the present applicant could not there 
fore be said to be concerned in that dispute . 


11 . Having carefully considered the matter, I think that the remarks made in 
the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over - ruled by these 
two subsequent decisions. I would hold that the present applicant was not a work 
man concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal when he 
was dismissed . That being so . Section 33 ( 2 ) was not contravened by the employers 
when they dismissed him during the pendency of the above Reference . 


12 . In the result, I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot be main 
tained and is dismissed, 
I pass my award accordingly . 

Sd ./ - L . P . DAVE , 
Dated , 30th November 1964. 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 6 / 5 / 63 -LR . II.] 


S . O . 4351. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act, from Shri Syed Ali, Fan Khalashi, Adjai II Colliery , which 

what 19A4 
was received by the Central Government on the 7th December , 1964. 

! 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL : CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No. 11 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of I. D . Act . 
( Arising out of Reference Mo. 18 of 1963 ) 


PARTIES : 

Syed All, Fan Khalashi, Adjal II Colliery - Application 


Vs. 


The Manager, Adjai II Colllery - Opposite Party . 


PRESENT ; 

Shri L . P . Dave — Presiding Officer . 


APPEARANCES ; 

On behalaf of Applicant - Shri Ajlt Mazumdar, Advocate . 
On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri S S . Mukherjee, Adyocate . 

INUSTRY: Coal Mines 


AWARD 


under Section 33A of thecine inter alia that the33 of the 


This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The applicant has filed this application alleging inter aliaz that the Opposite 
party had been guilty of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act ; that the applicant was working as Fan Khalashi; that 
he was suminarily dismissed by a letter dated 11th June 1984 that the Opposite 
party has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they had , during 
the pendency of Reference No. 18 of 1963, dismissed the applicant without obtain 
ing express permission in writing from this Tribunal, The applicant. therefore , 
prayed that the Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the applicant with 
back wages . 


SEC . $( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 8 , 1890 


4901 


- - - - - 


- - - - - - -- 
3 , The Opposite party , by its writion statement, has contended inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman concerned in Reference No. 18 of 1963 and as 
such he was not competent to file the present aplication which is not legally main 
tainable as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 33 
of the Industrial Disputes Act . 


4 . At the request of both parties , the above point has been heard as a preli 
minary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workman concerned in Re 
ference No . 18 of 1963 . It is not in dispute that the Government made the above 
reference to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the 
Tribunal gave its award on 28th September 1964 . It is also not in dispute that 
the present applicant was dismissed during the pendency of the above Reference . 
What is , however , in dispute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned 
in the above Reference and therelore the employers were not bound to obtain 
permission of the Tribunal under Section 33 ( ) of the Industrial Disputes Act 
before taking action against him and hence they had not contravened the provi 
sions thereof by dismissing the workman without taking permission of the Tri 


the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial dis 
pute , the employer may in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
workman concerned in such dispute , discharge or punish , whether by dismissal 
O1 otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . 
There is a proviso to this Sub - section which requires that the workman cannot 
be discharged or dismissed without payment of wages for one month and without 
an application being made by the employers to the Tribunal for approval of their 
action . Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was any 
permission or approval taken from this Tribunal, The employer s contention is 
that this Sub - section applies only whcre the workman who is to be dismissed 
is a workman concerned in the dispute regarding which proceedings are pending 
before a Tribunal. It was urged that the present applicant was not a workman 
concerned in the above Reference and hence no such permission was necessary . 
On the other hand , the applicant s contention is that all workmen employed by the 
employers should be deemed to be concerned in the dispute because the Reference 
was made as a dispute was existing between the employers and all their work 
men . It was therefore argued that all workmen must be deemed to be concerned 
in the earlier Reference . 


6 . Before proceeding further , I may mention that Reference No. 18 of 1963 
was for adjudication of the following questions, namely , whether the action of 
the management in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and iſ not, to what 
relief he was entitled . It would thus appear that the dispute was regarding 
an individual workman . No doubt it was an industrial dispute , as it was taken 
up by other workmen also ; but the workman concerned in that dispute would be 
only Murli Ahir and none else . 


7 . Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the Supreme 
Court in the case of New India Motors , ( Private ) Ltd ., Vs. Morris ( K . T .) , 1960 
I LLJ 551. In that case the Supreme Court held that the expression concerned 
in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who are 
directly concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would in 
clude all workmen on whose behall the dispute had been raised as well as those 
who would be bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute . 


8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party on 
two subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court namely ( 1 ) Upper Ganges Valley 
Electricty Supply Company, Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava , 1963 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Dig 
wadih Colliery Vs. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143 . In the first of these cases , 
a dispute regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual 
workman was referred for adjudication . An appcal against the resulting award 
made on the Reference was pending. During the pendency of that appeal, a 
workman who was employed as a Firenian was dismissed and he thereupon made 
a complaint under Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate Tribunal) Act. 
It may be noted here that the wording of Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act. It was held by the Supreme Court that this application was 
not maintainable as the applicant was not a workman concerned in the above 
appeal which related to an individual dispute of one employee. The Supreme 
Court s view appears to be that though all workmen may be considered to be 
a party to the dispute , they cannot all be said to be " concerned " in such dispute . 


4902 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 /PAUSA 6, 1886 [PART II 


- 


= 


- 


- 


Only the persons who are subject matter of the Reference would be the persons 
concerned in such dispute . In the above Supreme Court case , the person relat 
ing whose annual increment the matter was referred for adjudication was the 
workman concerned in the dispute . 


9 . The Digwadih Colliery case was a case under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act . A person was dismissed from service during the pendency of a 
Reference before the Industrial Tribunal, It appears that the person who was 
dismissed was a clerk while the pending Reterence was regarding Chaprasis and 
watchman and it was on this ground that the employers contended that the ap 
plicant was not a workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no 
evidence on this point and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court . 
The Supreme Court held that even if this clarification was not made before it . 
it was necessary for the applicant to satisfy the Tribunal by proving the nature 
of the dispute pending in the earlier Reference before asking the Tribunal to 
make a Anding in his favour under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such 
evidence the Tribunal would not be justified in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) ap 
plied and have been contravened . If the contention of the applicant that all 
workmen must be deemed to be workmen concerned in the pending Reference 
were accepted , it would not be necessary for the Tribunal to go into the nature 
of the dispute pending in the carlier Reference . 


10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred 
for adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named 
in the Reference . The Supreme Court observed that it was an individual dis 
pute in respect of one employec and so the respondent in that case could not 
be said to be concerned with that dispute . These remarks would apply to the 
facts of the present case because the Reference which was pending betore this 
Tribunal was regarding the dismissal of an indiviilual workman and the present 
applicant could not therefore be said to be concerned in that dispute . 


11 . Having carefully considered the matter . I think that the remarks made 
In the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over - ruled by 
these two subsequent decisions. I would hold that the present applicant was not 
a workman concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal 
when he was dismissed . That being so , Section 3312 ) was not contravened by 
the employers when they dismissed hiin during the pendency of the above Re 
fence , 


12 . In the result , I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot be main 
tained and is dismissed . 


I pass my award accordingly . 


Dated , the 30th November, 1964 . 


Sd . / - L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer. 
[No. 6 /5 / 63 -LR . II.] 


3 . 0 , 4352 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 


Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under Section 33A 
of the said Act, from Shri Brij Mohan , underground Loader, Adjai II Colliery , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 7th December 1964. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL : CALCUTTA 

MISC . APPLICATION No. 12 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of I.D . Act 
(Arising out of Reference No. 18 of 1963 ) 


TILS : 


Shri Brij Mohan , Underground Loader , Adjai II Colliery- - Applicant. 

Vs. 
The Manager, Adjai II Colliery - - Opposite Party . 


SEC. 8 (id)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 . 1886 


4601 


RUSI 


PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant - Shri Ajit Mazumdar, Advocate. 

On behalf of Opposite Party Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate. 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The applicant has Aled this application alleging inter alia that the Opposite 
party had been guilty of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act ; that the applicant was working as Underground Loader ; 
that he was summarily dismissed by a letter dated lith June 1964 ; that the 
Opposite party has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they had , 
during the pendency of Reference No . 18 of 1963, dismissed the applicant without 
obtaining express permission in writing from this Tribunal. The applicant, there 
fore , prayed that the Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the applicant 
with back wages . 


3 . The Opposite party, by its written statement, has contended Inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman concerned in Reference No. 18 of 1963 and as 
such he was not competent to file the present application which is not legally 
maintainable as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Art. 


4 . At the request of both parties, the above point has been heard as a preli 
minary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workman concerned in Re 
ference No . 18 of 1963 . It is not in dispute that the Governinent made the above 
reference to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the 
Tribunal gave its award on 28th August 1964. It is also not in dispute that the 
present applicant was dismissed during the pendency of the above Reference. 
What is , however , in dispute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned 
in the above Reference and therefore the employers were not bound to obtain 
permission of the Tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) of tho Industrial Disputes Act 
before taking action against him and hence they had not contravened the provi 
sions thereof hy dismissing the workman without taking permission of the Tribunal . 

5 . Section 33 (2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial 
dispute , the employer may, in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
workman Concerned in such dispute , discharge or punish , whether by dismissal 
or otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . 
There is a proviso to this Sub - section which requires that the workmat cannot 
be discharged or dismissed without payinent of wages for one month and without 
an application being made by the enployers to the Tribunal for approval of their 
action . Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was any 


that this Sub - section applics only where the workman who is to be dismissed is a 
workman concerned in the dispute regarding which proceedings are pending 
before a Tribunal. It was urged that the present applicant was not a workman 
concerned in the above Reference and henre no such permission was necessary. 
On the other hand , the applicant s contention is that all workmen employed by 
the employers should be deemed to be concerned in the dispute because the Re 
ference was made as a dispute was existing between the employers and all their 
workmen . It was therefore argued that all workmen must be deemed to be con 
cerned in the earlier Reference , 

6 . Before proceecling further, I may mention that Reference No. 18 of 1963 was 
for adjudication of the following questions, namely , whether the action of the 
management in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and if not, to what relief 
he was entitled . It would thus appear that the dispute was regarding an indivi 
dual workman , No doubt it was an industrial dispute . as it was taken up by other 
workmen also ; but the workman concerned in that dispute would be only Murli 
Ahir and none else . 

7. Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the 
Supreme Court in the case of New India Motors , (Private ) Ltd ., Vs. Morris ( K . T .), 


2004 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUŠA 5, 1886 (PART II 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


1969 I LLJ 551, In that case the Supreme Court held that the expression con 
cerned in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who 
are directly concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would 


those who would be bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute . 


8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party on 
two subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court namely ( 1) Upper Ganges Valley 
Electricity Supply Company , Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava , 1983 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Digwadih 
Colliery V8. Hamji Singh , 1984 II LLJ 143. In the first of these cases , a dispute 
regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual workman 
was referred for adjudication , An appeal against the resulting award made on 
the Reference was pending . During the pendency of that appeal, a workman who 
was employed as a Fireman was dismissed and he thereupon made a complaint 
under Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal) Act. It may be 


Tribunal) Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Industrlal Disputes 
Act. It was held by the Supreme Court that this application was not maintain 
able as the applicant was not a workman concerned in the above appeal which 
related to an individual dispute of one employee. The Supreme Court s view 
appears to be that though all workmen may be considered to be a party to the 
dispute , they cannot all be sald to be " concerned " in such dispute . Only the 
persons who are subject matter of the Reference would be the persons concerned 
in auch dispute . In the above Supreme Court case , the person relating whose 
annual increment the matter was referred for adjudication was the workman 
concerned in the dispute . 


9 . The Digwadlh Colliery case was a case under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act . A person was dismissed from service during the pendency of a 
Reference before the Industrial Tribunal . It appears that the person who was 
dismissed was a clerk while the pending Reference was regarding Chaprasis and 
watchman and it was on this ground that the employers contended that the 
applicant was not a workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no 
evidence on this point and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court , 
The Supreme Court held that even if this clarifcation was not made before it 
it was necessary for the applicant to satisfy the Triburial by proving the nature 
of the dispute pending in the earlier Reference before asking the Tribunal to 
make a finding in his favour under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such 
evidence the Tribunal would not be justified in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) applied 
and have been contravened . If the contention of the applicant that all workmen 
must be deemed to be workmen concerned in the pending Reference were accept 
ed , it would not be necessary for the Tribunal to go into the nature of the dis 


10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred 
for adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named in 
the Reference . The Supreme Court observed that it was an individual dispute in 
respect of one employee and so the respondent in that case could not be said to 
be concerned with that dispute . These remarks would apply to the facts of the 
present case because the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal was 
regarding the dismissal of an individual workman and the present applicant 
could not therefore be said to be concerned in that dispute , 


11. Having carefully considered the matter , I think that the remarks made in 
the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over - ruled by these 
two subsequent decisions. I would hold that the present applicant was not a 
workman concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal 
when he was dismissed . That being so , Section 33 ( 2 ) was not contravened by 
the employer when they dismissedhim during the pendency of the above Re 
terence . 


12 . In the result , I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot be main 
tained and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

Sd ./- L , P , DAVE , 

Presiding Omcer . 
Dated , the 30th November , 1964. 

[ No. 8 / 3 /63-LR .II.) 


Sec. $ ( it)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 20, 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1880 


A /PAUSA B , 1886 


4905 


$ . O . 4353 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act , from Shri Sidhnath Ahir Trammer , Adjay II Colliery which 
was received by the Central Government on the 7th December 1964. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL : CALCUTTA 

MISC . APPLICATION No. 13 of 1964 

Under Section 33A of I. D), Act. 

( Arising out of Reference No. 18 of 1963 ) 
PARTIES : 


Shri Sidhnath Ahir , Trammer , Adjay II Colllery - Applicant. 


Vs. 


Manager, Adjai II Colliery - Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant - Shri Ajit Mazumdar , Advocate . 

On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri S . Ş . Mukherjee, Advocate . 
STATE : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The applicant has filed this application alleging inter alia that the Oppo 
site party had been guilty of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act; that the applicant was working as Trammer ; that 
he was summarily dismissed by a letter dated 11th June 1964 ; that the Opposite 
party has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they had , during 
the pendency of Reference No. 18 of 1963, dismissed he applicant without obtain 
ing express permission in writing from this Tribunal. The applicant, therefore, 
prayed that the Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the applicant with 
back wages . 


3 . The Opposite party , by its written statement, has contended inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman concerned in Reference No. 18 of 1963 and as 
such he was not competent to file the present application which is not legally 
naintainable as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 


4 . At the request of both parties, the above point has been heard as a pre 
liminary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workman concerned in Re 
ference No . 18 of 1963 . It is not in dispute that the Government made the above 
reference to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the 
Tribunal gave its award on 28th August 1964 . It is also not in dispute that 
the present applicant was dismissed during the pendency of the above Reference , 
What is, however, in dispute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned 
in the above Reference and therefore the employers were not bound to obtain 
permission of the Tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act 
before taking action against him and hence they had not contravened the pro 
visions thereof by dismissing the workman without taking permission of the 
Tribunal 


5 . Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial dis 
puté . the employer may , in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
Workiman concerned in such dispute , discharge or punish , whether by dismissal 
or otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . 


4906 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 [ PART II 


- - 


- 


There is a proviso to this Sub - section which requires that the workman cannot 
be discharged or dismissed without payment of wages for one month and without 
an application being made by the employers to the Tribunal for approval of 
their action . Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was 
any permission or approval taken from this Tribunal. The employers conten 
tion is that this Sub - section applies only where the workman who is to be dismis 
sed is a workman concerned in the dispute regarding which proceedings are 
pending before a Tribunal, It was urged that the present applicant was not a 
workman concerned in the above Reference and hence no such permission was 
necessary . On the other hand , the applicant s contention is that all worlcmen 
employed by the employers should be deemed to be concerned in the dispute 
because the Reference was made as a dispute was existing between the employers 
and all their workmen . It was therefore argued that all workmen must be 
deemed to be concerned in the earlier Reference. 

6 . Before proceeding further , I may mention that Reference No. 18 of 1963 
was for adjudication of the following question , nainely , whether the action of 
the management in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and if not , to what 
reljet he was cntitled . It would thus appcar that the dispute was regarding 
an individual workman . No doubt it was an industrial dispute , as it was taken 
up by other workmen also ; but the workinan concerned in that dispute would 
he only Murli Ahir and nonc else . 

7 . Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the 
Supreme Court in the case of New India Motors ( Private ) Ltd , Vs. Morris ( K . T .) 
1960 I LLJ 551. In that case the Supreme Court held that the expression con 
cerned in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who 
are directly concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would 


those who would be bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute . 

8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party 
on two subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court namely ( 1 ) Upper Ganges 
Valley Electricity Supply Company , Ltd ., Vs, Srivastava 1983 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) 
Digwadih Colliery Vs. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143 . In the first of these cases , 
a dispute regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual 
workman was referred for adjudication . An appeal against the resulting award 
made on the Reference was pending. During the pendency of that appeal, a 
workman who was employed as a Fireman was dismissed and he thereupon made 
a complaint under Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes (Appellate Tribunal ) Act . 
It may be noted here that the wording of Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal ) Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act . It was held by the Supreme Court that this application was 
not maintainable as the applicant was not a workman concerned in the above 
appeal which related to an individual dispute oť one employee. The Supreme 
Court s view appears to be that though all workmen may be considered to be a 
party to the dispute , they cannot all be said to be " concerned " in such dispute . 
Only the persons who are subject matter of the Reference would be the persons 
concerned in such dispute . In the above Supreme Court case, the person relating 
to whose annual increment the matter was referred fror 2djudication was the 
workman concerned in thc dispute , 


9 . The Digwadih Colliery case was a case under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act . A person was dismissed from service during the pendency of a 
Reference before the Industrial Tribunal. . It appears that the person who was 
dismissed was a clerk while the pending Reference was regarding Chaprasis and 
watchman and it was on this ground that employers contended that the applicant 
was not a workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no evidence 
on this point and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court. The 
Supreme Court held that even if this clasification was not made before it , it was 
necessary for the applicant to satisfy the Tribunal by proving the nature of the 
dispute pending in the earlier Reference before asking the Tribunal to make a 
finding in his favour under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such evidence 
the Tribunal would not be justified in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) applied and 
have been contravened . If the contention of the applicant that all workmen must 
he deemed to be workmen concerned in the pending Roference were accepted , 
jt would not be necessary for the Tribunal to go into the nature of the dispute 
pending in the earlier Reference. 


10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred 
for adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named 
in the Reference . The Supreme Court observed that it was an individual dis 
pute in respect of one employee and so the respondent in that case could not 


- - - - 


be said to be concerned with that dispute . These remarks would apply to the 
facts of the present case because the Reference which was pending before this 
Tribunal was regarding the dismissal of an individual workman and the present 
applicant could not therefore be said to be concerned in that dispute. 


11. Having carefully considered the matter , I think that the remarks made in 
the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over - ruled by these 
two subsequent decisions. I would hold that the present applicant was not a 
workman concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal 
when he was dismissed . That being so , Section 33 ( 2 ) was not contravened by 
the employers when they dişinissed him during the pendency of the above Refer 
ence . 


12 . In the result, I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot be 
maintained and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

Sd / - L . P . DAVE . 

Presiding Officer 
Dated , the 30th November , 1964 . 


[No. 6 /5 /63 -LRII.) 


S . O . 4354 , - In pursuance of section 17 of thc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under Section 
33A of the said Act, Iron Shri Salku Rajbhar , underground Loader , Adjai II 
Colliery which was received by the Central Government on the 7th December 
1964 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL : CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No . 14 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of I.D . Act. 

(Arising out of Reference No . 18 of 1963 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Salku Rajbhar, Underground Loader, Adjai II Colllery -- Applicant. 

Vs. 
The Manager , Adjai II Colliery - Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant- Shri Ajit Mazumdar, Advocaí 

On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 
State : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines. 


AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The applicant has filed this application alleging inter alia that the Opposite 
party had been guilty of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act; that the applicant was working as Underground Loader ; 
chat he was summa: ily dismissed by a letter dated 11th June 1964 ; that the 
Opposite party has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they 
hud , during the pendency of Reference No . 18 of 1963, dismissed the applicant 
without obtaining express permission in writing from this Tribunal . The applicant. 
therefore, prayed that the Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the ap 
plicant with back wages, 


- 


- - - 


" 


- - - 


- 1 


3 . The Opposite party , by its written statement, has contended inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman concerned in Reference No . 18 of 1963 and as 
such he was not competent to file the present application which is not legally 
maintainable as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


4 . At the request of both parties, the above point has been heard as a prelimi 
nary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workman concerned in Refe 
rence No . 18 of 1963. It is not in dispute that the Government made the allove 
reference to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the 
Tribunal gave its award on 28th August 1964 . It is also not in dispute that the 
present applicant was dismissed during the pendency of the above Reference . 
What is , however , in dispute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned 
in the above Reference and therefore the employers were not bound to obtain 
permission oľ the Tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act 
before taking action against him and hence they had not contravened the provi 
sions thereof by dismissing the workman without taking permission of the Tribu 
nal, 


5 . Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial 
dispute , the employer may , in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
workman concerned in such dispute , discharge or punish , whether by dismissal or 
otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . 
There is a proviso to this Sub -section which requires that the workman cannot 
be discharged or dismissed without payment of wages for one month and without 
an application being made by the employers to the Tribunal for approval of their 
action . Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was any 
permission or approval" taken from this Tribunal. The employer s contention is 
that this Sub - section applies only where the workman who is to be dismissed is a 
workman concerned in the dispute regarding which proceedings are pending before 
a Tribunal. It was urged that the present applicant was not a workman con 
cerned in the above Reference and hence no such permission was necessary . On 
the other hand , the applicant s contention is that all workinen employed by the 
employers should be deemed to be concerned in the dispute because the Reference 
was made as a dispute was existing between the employers and all their workmen . 
It was therefore argued that all workmen must be deemed to be concerned in the 
earlier Reference. 


6 . Before proceeding further , I may mention that Reference No. 18 of 1963 was 
for adjudication of the following questions, namely , whether the action of the 
inanagement in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and iſ not, to what relief 
he wus entitled . It would thus appear that the dispute was regarding an indivi 
dual workman . No doubt it was an industrial dispute , as it was taken up by 
other workmen also ; but the workman concerned in that dispute would be only 
Murli Ahir and none else , 


7 . Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the 
Supreme Court in the case of New India Motors , (Private ) Ltd , Vs. Morrls ( K . T .), 
1960 I LLJ 551. In that case the Supreme Court hold that the expression con 
cerned in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who 
are directly concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would 
include all workmen on whose behalf the dispute had been raised as well AS 
those who would be bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute . 


8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party on 
two subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court namely ( 1 ) Upper Ganges Valley 
Electricity Supply Company, Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava, 1903 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Dig 
wadih Çolllery Vs. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143 . In the first of these cases , a 
dispute regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual 
workman was referred for adjudication . An appeal against the resulting award 
made on the Reference was pending. During the pendency of that appeal, a 
workman who was ernployed as a Fireman was dismissed and he thereupon made 
a complaint under Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate Tribunal) Act . 
It may be noted here that the wording of Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Appellate Tribunal) Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. It was held by the Supreme Court that this application was not 
maintainable as the applicant was not a workman concerned in the above appeal 
which related to an individual dispute of one employee. The Supreme Court s vimus 
appears to be that though all workmen may be considered to be a party io tu 
dispute , they cannot all be said to be " concerned " in such dispute , Only the 


$ ze , 8( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26, 1964 / PAUSA . 1886 


4909 


- - - 


- 


- . - . - . 


persons who are subject matter of the Reference would be the persons concerned 
in such dispute . In the above Supreme Court case , the person relating to whose 
annual increment the matter was referred for adjudication was the workman 
concerned in the dispute . 


9 . The Digwadih Colliery case was a case under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Art. A person was dismissed from service during the pendency of a 
Reference before the Industrial Tribunal. It appears that the person who was 
dismissed wos a clerk while the pending Reference was regarding Chaprasis and 
watchman and it was on this ground that the employers contended that the appll 
cant was not a workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no evidence 
on this point and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court. The 
Supreme Colirt held that even if this clarifiration was not made before it, it was 
necessary for the applicant to satisfy the Tribunal by proving the nature of the 
dispute pending in the carlier Feference before asking the Trihunal to make a 
(inding in his favour under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such evidence the 
Tribunal would not he justified in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) applied and have 
heen contravened . If the contention of the applicant that all workmen must be 
deemed to be workmen concerned in the pending Reference were accepted , it 
would not he necessary for the Tribunal to go into the nature of the disput. 
mending in the earlier Reference, 

10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred 
for adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named in 
the Reference . The Supreme Court observed that it was an individual dispute in 
respect of one employee and so the respondent in that case could not be said to 
be concerned with that dispute. These remarks would apply to the facts of the 
present case because the Reterence which was pending before this Tribunal was 
regarding the dismissal of an individual workman and the present applicant could 
not therefore be said to be concerned in that dispute . 

11 . Having carefully considered the matter , I think that the remarks made in 
the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over -ruled by these 
two subsequent derisions. I would hold that the present annlirant was not a 
workman concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal 
when he was dismisserl . That being so , Section 33 ( 2 ) was not contravened by the 
employers when they dismissed him during the pendency of the above Reference . 

12 . In the result I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot be 
maintained and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

Sa ./ - L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Omcer . 
Dated, the 30th November, 1964. 

( No. 6 / 5 / 63 -LR ,II. ] 


S . O . 4355 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the matter of an apnlication under sertion 33A 
of the said Act, from Shri Chouti Ahir , Underground Loader, Adjai II Colljery 
hich was received by the Central Government on the 7th December 1964 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No. 15 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of I. D . Act 
( Arising out of Reference No. 18 of 1963 ) 


PARTIES : 


Shri Chouti Ahir, Underground Loader , Adjal II Colllery - Applicant. 

Vs. 


The Manager, Adjał II Colllery - Opposite Party , 


PRESENT; 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer , 
APPEARANCES; 

On behalf of Applicant - Shri Ajit Mazumdar, Advocate. 

On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate . 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

2 . The applicant has Aled this application alleging inter alia that the Opposite 
party . had heen guilty of contravention of the provisions of Section 33 of th 


that he was summarily dismissed by i letter dated 11th June 1964 ; that the Opposite 
party has violated Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act as they had , during the 
pendency of Reference No. 18 of 1963, dismissed the applicant without obtaining 
express permission in writing from this Tribunal. The applicant, therefore , prayed 
that the Opposite party should be directed to reinstate the applicant with back 
wages. 


3 . The Opposite party , by its written statement, has contended inter alia that 
the applicant is not a workman conrerned in Reference No . 18 of 1963 and as 
such he was not competent to Ale the present application which is not legally 
maintainable as the Opposite party has not contravened the provisions of Section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 


4 . At the request of hoth parties , the above point has been heard as prellini 
nary point, namely , whether the applicant was a workinan concerned in Reference 
No . 18 of 1963. It is not in dispute that the Government made the above rcfer 
ence to this Tribunal by an Order dated 11th November 1963 and that the Tri 
bunal gave its award on 28th August 1964 . It is also not in dispute that the pre 
sent applicant was dismissed during the pendenry of the above Reference. What 
is , however , in dispute is that the applicant was not a workman concerned in the 
above Reference and therefore the employers were not bound to obtain permis 
sion of the Tribunal under Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act hefore 
taking action against him and hence they had not contravened the provisions 
thereof by dismissing the workman without taking permission of the Tribunal. 

5 . Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act provides inter alia that during 
the pendency of any proceedings before a Tribunal in respect of an industrial 
dispute , the employer may , in accordance with the Standing Orders applicable to 
workman concerned in such dispute , discharge or punish , whether by dismissal or 
otherwise , that workman for any misconduct not connected with the dispute . 
There is a proviso to this Sub - section which requires that the workman cannot 
be discharged or dismissed without payment of wages for one month and without 
an application being made by the employers to the Tribunal for approval of their 
action , Admittedly the applicant was not paid one month s wages nor was any 
permission or approval taken from this Tribunal, The employer s contention is 
that this Sub - section applics only where the workman who is to be dismissed is 
a workman concerned in the dispute regarding which proceerlings are pending 
before a Tribunal. It was urged that the present applicant was not a workman 
concerned in the above Reference and hence no such permission was necessary . 
On the other hand , the applicant s contention is that all workmen employed by 
the employers should be deemed to be concerned in the dispute herause the Refer 
ence was made as a dispute was existing between the employers and all their work 
men . It was therefore argued that all workmen must be deemed to be concerned 
in the earlier Reference . 

6 . Before proceeding further , I may mention that Reference No . 18 of 1963 was 


management in dismissing Shri Murli Ahir was justified and if not, to what relief 
he wag entitled ? It would thus appear that the dispute was regarding an indivi 
dual workman . No doubt it was an industrial dispute , as it was taken up by 
other workmen also ; but the workmen concerned in that dispute would be only 
Murli Ahir and none 10. 


Sua (u )) THL GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 20 , 1904 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4911 


7 Ratlanpa wae placed on behalf of the applicant on the decisions of the 
Supreme Court in the case of New India , Motors ( Private ) Ltd . Vs, Morris (KT.) . 
1960 I LLJ 551 . In that case the Supreme Court held that the expression concern 
ed in such dispute would not be limited only to such of the workmen who are 
directly concerned with the dispute in question and that the expression would 
include all workmen on whose behalf the dispute had been raised as well as 
those who would be bound by the award which may be made in the said dis 
pute . 

8 . On the other hand , reliance was placed on behalf of the Opposite Party on 
tuun suhconvent decisions of thn Sunreme Court namely ( 1 ) Unner Ganges Valley 
Electricity Supply Company , Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava , 1963 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Digwa 
dih Colliery Vs, Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 1 -13 . In the first of these cases , a dispute 
regarding the question of grant of annual increment to one individual workman 
was referred for adjudication . An appeal against the resulting award made on 
the Reference was pending . Duricg the pendency of that appeal, a workman who 
was employed as a Fireman was dismissed and he thereupon made a complaint 
under Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate Tribunal) Art . It may be 
noted here that the wording of Section 23 of the Industrial Disputes ( Appellate 
Tribunal) Act is similar to the wording of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act . It was held by the Supreme Court that this application was not maintain 
able as the applicant was not a workman concerned in the above appeal which 
related to an individual dispute of one employee . The Supreme Court s view 
appears to be that though all workmen may be considered to be a party to the dis 
pute , they cannot all be said to be " concerned " in such dispute . Only the per 
sons who are subject matter of the Reference would be the persons concerned in 
such dispute . In the above Supreme Court case , the person relating whose annual 
increment the matter was referred for adjudication was the workman concerned 
in the dispute . 

9 . The Digwadih Colliery case was a case under Sertion 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act. A person was dismissed from scrvice during the pendency of a 
Reference before the Industrial Tribunal. It appears that the person who was 
dismissed was a clerk while the pending Reference was regarding Chaprasis and 
watchman and it was on this ground that the employers contended that the appli 
cant was not a workman concerned in the earlier dispute . There was no evidence 
on this point and this clarification was made before the Supreme Court. The 
Supreme Court held that even if this clarifcation was not made before it , it wag 
necessary for the applicant to satisfy the Tribunal by proving the nature of the 
dispute pending in the earlier Reference before asking the Tribunal to made 4 
Anding in his favour under Section 33 ( 2 ) and in absence of any such evidence 
the Tribunal would not be justified in holding that Section 33 ( 2 ) applied and 
have been contravened. If the contention of the applicant that all workinen 
must be deemed to be workmen concerned in the pending Reference were accepted , 
it would not be necessary for the Tribunal to go into the nature of the dispute 
pending in the earlier Reference . 


10 . It may be noted here that in the Upper Ganges case the matter referred 
for adjudication was regarding an increment of a particular workman named in 
the Reference . The Supreme Court oliserver that it was an individual dispute 
In respect of one employee and so the respondent in that case could not be said 
to be concerned with that dispute . These remarks would apply to the facts et 
the present case because the Rcfcrence which was pending hetore this Tribunal 
was regarding the dismissal of an individual workman and the present applicant 
could not therefore be said to be concerned in that dispute . 

11 . Having carefully considered the matter . I think that the remarks made in 
the earlier Supreme Court case must be deemed to have been over - ruled by these 


workman concerned in the Reference which was pending before this Tribunal 
when he was dismissed . That being so , Section 33 ( 2 ) was not contravened by 
the employers when they dismissed him during the pendency of the above Refer 
ence. 

12 . In the result, I hold that this application under Section 33A cannot bo 
maintained and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

(Sd .) L . P . Dav . , 

Presiding Officer, 
Dated , the 30th November, 1964, 

[No. 8 / 8 / 63-LRIII 


4912 THE GAZETTE OF INDJA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 . 1886 [PART II 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - = " - - - - - - - 
S . O . 4356 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the In 
dustrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the matter of an application under Section 33A of 
the said Act from Shri Muni Missir , Tuggar Khalasi, Babisole Colliery which was re 
celved by the Central Government on the 7th December , 1964 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

VISC . APPLICATION NO. 16 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of I. D . Act 

(Arising out of Reference No. 45 of 1964 ). 
PARTIES : 
Shri Muni Missir, Tuggar Khalashi, Babisole Colliery - Applicant, 

Vs. 
The Manager, Babisole colllery - Opposite Party , 
PRESENT: 

Shri L . P . Dave. - Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Applicant.-- Shri Kalyan Roy, Vice -President, Collicry Mazdoor 

Sabha . 
On behalf of Opp . Party . Shri S. K . Singh , Welfare Omcer, 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines, 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


2 . The anplicant Aled the present application alleging that the Onn , party by 
dismissing him during the pendency of Reference No. 45 of 1964 without obtain 
ing permission of the Tribunal had contravened the provisions of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act , 


3. At the hearing , the Opposite party raised a preliminary objection that the 
applicant was not a workman concerned in the above Reference and hence the 
case was not covered by Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act and no appli 
cation was necessary for approval of the management s action . 


4 . This question has been considered by me in Migc. Application Nos. 10 , 11, 12 , 
13 , 14 , and 15 of 1964 and in view of the Rulings of the Supreme Court in the 
cases of ( 1 ) Upper Ganges Valley Electricity Supply Company, Ltd ., V8. Srivas 
tava , 1963 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Digwadlh Colliery Vs. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143 , 
I am satisfied that the present applicant cannot be said to be a workman concern 
ed in Reference No . 45 of 1964 . That being so , the employers have not committed 
a breach of Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act by dismissing him during 
the pendency of the above Reference without asking for the approval of this Tri 
bunal. The application therefore fails and is dismissed . 


I pags my award accordingly , 


Sd ./ - L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer . 


Dated , the 3rd December , 1964 


[No. 6 / 58 / 64 -LR - II- II.] 


S . O . 4357 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trlal Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under Section 33A of the 
sald Act , from Shri Ram Kewal Bhar , Timber Mistry , Babisole Colliery which was 
received by the Central Government on the 7th December 1964 . 


OF 


A : DECEMBER 26, 1964/PAUSA 8, 1866 


49r3 .. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

Misc. APPLICATION No. 17 OF 1964 

Under Section 33A of 1. D . Act 

(Arißing out of Reference No. 45 of 1964 ) 
PARTIES ; 
Shri Ram Kewal Bhar , Timber Mistry , Babisole Colliery - Applicant. 

V8. 
The Manager , Babisole Colliery - Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri L . P . Dave - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Applicant - Shri Kalyan Roy, Vice- Presid . . Colliery Mazdoor 

Şabha , 
On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri S . K , Singh , Welfare Oficer. 
STATE : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mine .. 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2 . The applicant Aled the present application alleging that the Opposite party 
by dlsrnissing him during the pendency of Reference No. 45 of 1964 without 
obtaining perinission of the Tribunal had contravened the provisions of Section 
33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

3 , At the hearing, the Opposite party raised a preliminary objection that the 
applicant was not a workman concerned in the above Rcference and hence the 
case was not covered by Section 33 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act and no appll 
cation was necessary for approval of the management s action . 

4 . This question has been considered by me in Mics . Applications Nos . 10 , 11 , 
12, 13 , 14 and 15 of 1964 and in view of the Rulings of the Supreme Court in the 
cases of ( 1 ) Upper Ganges Valley Electricity Supply Company, Ltd ., Vs. Srivastava , 
1963 I LLJ 237 and ( 2 ) Digwadih Colliery V8. Ramji Singh , 1964 II LLJ 143, I am 
satisfied that the present applicant cannot be said to be a workman concerned in 
Reference No . 45 of 1964. That being so , the employers have not committed a breach 
of Section 33( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act by dismissing him during the pendency 
of the above Reference without asking for the approval of this Tribunal. The appli 
cation therefore falls and is dismissed . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

Sd ./ - L . P . DAVE . 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , the 3rd December , 1964 

[No. 6 / 58 / 64 -LR - II-I. ] 
S . O . 4368 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the er 
ployers in relation to the Mouthdih Colliery , P . O . Dishcrgarh , Burdwan and their 
workmen which was received ly the Central Government on the 7th December , 


1964 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 34 OF 1964 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Mouthdih Colliery , 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri L . P . DavPresiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On hehalf of Employers - Shri Ramesh Chandra Thaker . 
On behalf of Workmen - - Shri Madhu Banerji, Genl. Secy . West Bengal Khan 

Mazdur Sangha , 


4914 


. I CAZETTE OF INDIA : D 


STATI : West Bengal. 


INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 


AWARD 


The Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, by their Order 
No. 6 / 62 / 64-LR , II dated 22nd August 1964 , have referred the industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Mouthdih Collery and their 
workmen in respect of the question whether the management of the Mouthdih 
Colliery was justilled in stopping all the workmen from work in the mine with 
effect from 15th June 1964 and if not, to what reliel the workmen were entitled , 
for adjudication to this Tribunal. 


that they had settled the dispute without going into the merits of the respective 
cases and produced a memoranduin of settlement, copy appended herewith , The 
dispute relates to the stoppage of work of workmen from the colliery . Under the 


promise have already been allowed to join their duties with continuity of their 
Bervices . These 14 people have not so lar joined and the question as to whether 
they should be allowed to join has been left to the discretion of the management; 
but the rest who have joined are to have continuity of service , the period of their 
absence being treated as leave witour pay. All the workmen even including the 
above 14 persons are to be each paid Rs. 40 / - within 3 months from the date 
the award becomes enforceable . In my opinion , the compromise is fair and rea 
sonable and I accept it . 
I therefore pass an award in terms thereof. 

( Sd .) L . P . DAVE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Dated , the 3rd December, 1964 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 54 OF 1964 
Employers in relation to Mouthdih Colliery. 

AND 
Their Workmen . 
The humble petition of the ainployers above named and their workmen - repres 
sented by West Bengal Khan Mazdoor Sangha ( U . T . U . C .) Chinakuri most res 
pectfully showcth : 

1 . That without going into the merits of their respective cases the parties 
have settled the above reference on the following terms : 

( a ) All Workmen whose names have been given in the list (Annexure A 

· of this petition ) will each be paid Rs. 40 / - as exgratia payment. 

No uiner woramer was stopped froin work in the Colliery , 
(b ) The above payment will be made within three months from the date 

the award becomes entorceable . 
(c ) That the period of unemployment of all the workers named in An 

nexure A excluding sarvasrce ( 1 ) Ram Majhi, ( 2 ) Ismail Mia , ( 3 ) 
Becha Dnobi, ( 4 ) Probhunath Show , (5 ) Lalui Kole , ( 6 ) Sanatan 
Bouri, ( 7 ) Moniial Maji, ( 8 ) Taher Mia , ( 9 ) Mongala Hembram , 
( 10 ) Snyam Bouri, ( 11) Sabu Bouri, ( 12 ) Ramnath Bouri, ( 13 ) Dar 
bari Rajak , ( 14 ) Abala Pramanik from 15th June 1964 til their date 
of resumption of duty shall be treated as leave without pay for the 

purpose of continuity of the service, 
( a ) That the question of taking in employment of Seryasree ( 1 ) Ram 

Majhi, ( 2 ) Ismail Mia , ( 3 ) Becha Dhobi, ( 4 ) Probhunath Show , ( 5 ) 
Lalji Koli, (6 ) Sanatan Bouri , ( 7 ) Monilal Majhi, ( 8 ) Taher Mia , (9 ) 
Mongla Hembram , ( 10 ) Shyam Bouri, (11) Sabu Bouri, ( 12 ) Ram 
nath Bouri, ( 13 ) Darbari Rajak , ( 14 ) Abala Pramanik who have not 

yet resumed their duties will be at the discretion of the management. 
( e ) That the workmen will have no further claim against the management 

in respect of any matter arising out of the Instant reference , 


Sec . 8 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 

4915 
= = - - = - - - - - - - - = = - - - 

- - : : - - - - - - - : 
( 1) All the workmen except 14 (fourteen ) mentioned in clause ( d ) above 

have joined their duty with continuity of their Services. 
The parties therefore pray that the learned Tribunal be pleased to accept this 
jetition of compromise and dispose oť the reference accordingly . 
And as In duty bound , the parties shall ever pray . 
MADHU BANERJI, 

(Sd.) Illegible , 
Secretary . 

Partner . 
West Bengal Khan Mazdoor Sangha. Mouthdih Coal Co ., Mouthdih Colliery . 
( Representing Workmen ) 

(Representing Employers ). 
dated the 3rd December 1964. 


ANNEXURE - A 


1 . Sri Ram Majhi, 
2 . Sri Ismail Mia . 
3. Sri Rasik ( 2 ) Majhi. 
4 . Sri Harka Majhi. 
5 . Sri Dukhu Majhi. 
8 . Sri Rabi (3 ) Majhi. 
7 . Sri Ramadhur Kolri , 
8 . Sri Rajdeo Harijan . 
9 . Sri Becha Harijan . 
10 . Sri Brinda Jadab . 
11. Sri Rammurath Jacab . 
12 . Sri Motichanda Bhar , 
13 . Sri Bramdeo Kurmi. 
14 . Sri Becha Dhobi, 
15 . Sri Girjaprasad . 
18 . Sri Prabunath Show . 
17. Sri Lakhiram Majhi. 
18 . Sri Lubin Majbi. 
19 . Sri Thakur Majhi. 
20 . Sri Sambhu ( 3 ) Majhi. 
21. Sri Some Murmy. 
22. Sri Choto ( 1 ) Majhl. 
23 . Sri Suku ( 1 ) Majhi. 
24 , Sri Shyamlal Majjhi. 
25 . Sri Mathla ( 2 ) Majbl. 
26 . Sri Babulal Majhi. 
27 . Srl Parmeswar Majhi. 
28. Sri Laljee Kole . 
29 . Sri Ajodhye Kolę . 
30 . Sri Lahaju Jadab . 
31, Sri Sibraram Jadab . 
32. Sri Nagarset. 
33 . Sri Sanatan Bourl. 
34 . Sri Mongla Tudu , 
35. Sri Sukų Saren , 
36 . Sri Rasik ( 3 ) Majhi. 
37 . Sri Birbal Majhi. 
38 . Sri Chanda Kisku , 
39 . Sri Suna ( 1 ) Majhi. 


4916 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 1) ECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 (PART II 


40 . Sri Bijoy Majhi, 
41. Sri Mongla ( 3 ) Majhi. 
42. Sri Chandra Majhi. 
43 . Sri Some ( 1 ) Majhi. 
44. Sri Choto ( 2 ) Majhi. 
45. Sri Mondal Majhi. 
46. Sri Rabi ( 2 ) Majhi. 
47. Sri Monila ] Majhi. 
48 . Sri Lakhiram Hesda . 
49 . Sri Rameswar Kole . 
50 . Sri Suku (4 ) Majhi. 
· 51, Sri Bhutel Majhi. 
52 . Sri Sambhu ( 2 ) Majhi, 
53. Sri Sitaram ( 1 ) Majhi, 
54 , Sri Siru Majhi, 
65. Sri Lakhiram Maddi. 
56 . Sri Tahir Mla . 
57 . Sri Mongla Hembram . 
58. Sri Choto Rorau . 
59. Sri Lakhinarayan Hasda . 
80 . Sri Rasik ( 1 ) Majbi. 
61. Sri Bunela Gope . 
62. Madhusudan Haji. 
63. Sri Kali Gope . 
84. Sri Sasa Bouri. 
65. Sri Bibaran Gope . 
88 . Sri Kalo Majhi. 
67. Sr Monabodh Dome, 
68 . Sri Koil Dome, 
69. Sri Bhakti Das . 
70 . Sri Charan Gosai. 
71. Sri Dugei Gope . 
72 . Sri Tarapada Majhi. 
73. Sri Kanai Santra . 
74. Sri Nepal Majhi. 
75 . Sri Shyam Dome. 
76 . Sri K . P . Mondal. 
77 . Sri Kirtan Majhi. 
78 . Sri Bhabararan Karmakar . 
79. Sri Amulla Bhandari. 
80 . Sri Gopal Dutta . 
81. Sri Debranjan Banerjee . 
82 , Sri Das Bouri. 
83 . Sri Shyama Buori 
84 . Sri Ananda Maji. 
85 , Sri Radhu Ghosh . 
86 . Sri Haradhan Maji. 
87. Sri Sabu Bouri. 
88 . Sri Kutra Bouri. 
89. Sri Labai Maji. 
90 . Sri Bhutu Bag. 
91 . Sri Sadhan Munchi 


c . $ (ii) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


4917 


22 . Sri Sankar Maji. 
93. Sri Deben Maji. 
94. Sri Gora Mallick . 
95 . Sri Amulla Dome. 
86 . Sri Manik Maji, 
97 . Sri Basudeb Maji. 
98 . Sri Bharat Maji, 
99. Srl Kailash Karmakar. 
100 . Sri Basudeb Roy . 
101 , Sri Khoku Maji. 
102 . Sri Akul Maji. 
103. Sri Balaram Chakravarty . 
104. Sri Habu Bouri. 
105 . Sri Malinda Mali, 
106 . Sri Mathura Rajak . 


108 . Sri Kalidas Majhi. 
109. Sri Ramnath Bouri. 
110 . Sri Kurban Mia . 
111. Sri Ludha Bouri. 
112 . Sri Dukhu Bouri. 
113 . Sri Singhasan Gope . 
114 . Sri Darbari Rajak . 
115 . Sri Mahangu Din , 
116 . Sri Dibakar Majhi. 
117. Sri J. Bhattacharjee , 
118 . Sri R . Karmakar . 
119 . Sri Debidas Banerjee . 
120 . Sri Fucha Bourl, 
121. Sri Sibu Kole . 
122, Sri Ludha Bouri, 

23. Sri Rashu Bouri. 
124 . Sri Lakhiram Maji. 
125 . Sri Some Majhi. 
126 . Sri Gobardhan Majhi. 
127. Sri Basu Bourf. 
128 . Sri Sanatan Majhi. 
129 . Sri Budha Bouri . 
130 . Sri Gora Bouri. 
131. Sri Sasa Bouri, 
132 . Sri Joti Bouri . 
133. Sri Suklal Dome. 
134 . Sri Habula Dome. 
135 . Sri Naran Dhibar . 
136 . Sri Anil Pramanik , 
137 . Şri Manik Roy . 
138 . Sri Kuran Banerjee. 
139 . Sri Dulal Ghosal. 
140 , Sri Bishu Dhlbar 
141. Sri Surendra N . Dhibar . 
142 , Sri Kamakshya Neogi. 
143, Sri Shyam Chatterjee . 
144 . Sri Abala Pramanik , 


(No. 6 /62 / 64 -LRII. ) 


4918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 3 , 1886 (PART 11 
- - - - - _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

. . 
ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1964 
S . O . 4369 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Khas Joyrampur Colliery 
of Messrs Khas Joyrampur Colliery Company Private Limited , ( Post Office Jharia , 
District Dhanbad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the action of the management of Khas Joyrampur Colliery of 

Messrs Khas Joyrampur Colliery Company Private Limited in transfer 
ring Shri Ramkeswar Singh from the post of Underground Munshi 
to the post of Surface Tub Checker with effect froin the 13th July , 

1964 , was an act of victimisation , 
( 2 ) If so , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 129 /64 -LR - II.) 
S . O . 4360 , - -Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Kothagudium Collieries P . O . and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Dr. Mir 
Şiadat Ali Khan as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Somajiguda, 
Hyderabad, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial 
Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1) Whether in the light of the duties performed by and the responsibili 

ties imposed on Sri K . Jacob , Cook , Main Hospital, Kothagudiurn , the 
management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited is justified in 

not allowing him the grade of Head Cook ( viz ,, Rs. 43 to 82 ) ? 
( 2 ) If not to what relief is the workman entitled and from which date ? 

(No. 7 / 30 /64 -LRII.) 
New Delhi, the 17th December 1964 . 
8 . 0 . 4361, — Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bhatdee Colliery of Messrs 
Bengal Bhatdee Coal Company Limited ( P . O . Mohuda , District Dhanbad ) , and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annex 
ed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore. in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad . constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Bhatdee Colliery of Messrs 
Bengal Bhatdee Coal Company Limited in suspending Shri Biswanath Singh , 
Guard , and Shri B . Nasir Shaw , Body Searcher, for ten days from the 6th August, 
1984 to the 15th August, 1984 amounts to an act of victimisation ? If so, to what 
relief are the workmen entitled . 

INo. 2 / 136 /64 -LRII ) 


Sec . 8 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1886 


4919 


S . O . 4882 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employees in relation to the Samla Colliery , P . O . 
Pandaveswar , Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Samla Colliery of M / s. Samla Col 
lieries Ltd ., in dismissing their workmen Sarvashri Rampat Jayeswara , Lachman 
Jayeswara and Biswanath Jayeswara from service was justified ? If not, to what 
relief are these workmen entitled ? 

[No. 6 / 99 / 64 -LRII, ] 
9 . 0 . 4389 . Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Chinakuri No. 3 Plt Col 
liery of M / s. Bengal Coal Company Ltd ., P . O . Dishergarh , Burdwan and their 
workmen in respect of the main specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the sald 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputcs Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Sri Islam Khan , Mechanical Fitter of Chinakuri No. 3 
Pit Colliery by the management was justified ? If not , to what relief is he entitled ? 

[No. 6 / 107 / 64 - LRII. ] 
New Delhi, the 18th December 1964 
S . O . 4364 . Whereas the Central Government is of oninion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Şingareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Kothagudium Division , Kothaguidum . Andhra Pradesh , and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers Its desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of gub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Dr. Mir Siadat Ali Khan as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Somajiguda, 
Hyderabad , and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial Tri 
bunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Singarnni Collieries Company Limited is justi 

fled in treating Shri Mohd . Mansoor Ali, Fan Driver No. 2 Tocline, 
Kothagudium Collierles , as an absconder and denying the lien in his 
appointment as Fan driver from the 18th October, 1963 and then tak 
ing him back in employment as Hauler Driver with effect from the 
2nd March , 1964 as a fresh candidate without continuity of service ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from what date ? 

[No. 7 / 31 /64 - LR .II. ] 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1964 
S . O . 4365 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the North Jhagrakhand Col 
liery , P . O . Jhagrakhand , Distt. Sarguja , M . P . and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


4920 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1991/ PAUSA 5, 1886 [PART II 


And, whereas the Central Government content 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , thercfore , in exercise of the power s cor " erred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of North Jhagrakhand Colliery of Jhagrakhand 

Collieries (P ) Ltd . were justified in dismissing from service ( 1 ) Shri 
Ram Das s / o Sukhram and ( 2 ) Shri Peary Ahir , Mines ? If not, to 
what relief are the workmen entitled ? 

(No. 5 / 24 /14-LR ,II . ] 
H , C . MANGHANI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1964 
S . O . 4366 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
5A of the Dock Workers ( Rcgulation of Employment) Act, 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri T . C . Varkey as a member of the 
Cochin Dock Labour Board vice Shri D . B . Khona , to represent the Overseas 
Shipping Interests and makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 
3432 dated the 21st September , 1964 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading “ Members representing the em 
ployers of dock workers and shipping companies " , in the entries relating to Item 
( 4 ), for the entry " Shri D . B . Khona" , the entry " Shri T . C . Varkey" shall be 
substituted . 

[No. 527 / 29 / 64 - Fac.] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1964 
S . O , 4367. — In pursuancc of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 3 of the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund Act 1946 ( 22 of 1946 ) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following report of the activities financed from the Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund during the year ending with the 31st March , 1964 , together 
with a statement oť accounts for that year and an estimate of receipts and ex 
penditure of the said Fund for the year 1964 - 65 , 

PART 1 - GENERAL 
The Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund constituted under the Mica 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act , 1946 ( 22 of 1946 ) . Is intended to provide educa 
tional, recreational and other welfare amenities to the labour employed in the 
mica mining industry . 

The Act provides for the levy of a duty of customs on all mica exported from 
India upto a maximum rate of 61 per cent. ad valorem . The present rate is 21 
per cent. 

The collections are allocated for expenditure on welfare measures among the 
various Mica - producing areas in proportion to their average production , 

The following welfare measures have so far been undertaken in Bihar , Andhra 
Pradesh and Rajasthan : 


( a ) Hospitals - A 100 -bed Central Hospital at Karma ( Blhar ) , a 15 -bed 

Hospital at Tisri (Bihar ) and a 14 -bed Hospital at Kalichedu 
(Andhra Pradesh ) continued to be maintained from the resources of 
the Fund . The construction of the 30 -bed Hospital at Gangapur 
( Rajasthan ) was completed and the outpatient department has start 
ed functioning. A 50 -bed T , B , Fospital at Karma ( Bihar ) started 
functioning in October , 1963. A 12 -hed T . B . clinic at Tisri is under 
construction and work on a 16 -bed T . B . Ward attached to the hospital 

at Kalichedu would begin shortly . 
( b ) Other Medical facilities – Other medical institutions set up from the 

finances of the Fund comprise 5 static dispensarles , 3 mobile medical 
units , 3 ayurvedic dispensaries, 5 maternity and child welfare centres 


Sec . 3( il )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 /PAUSA 3 , 1886 


4921 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


and 5 community entres in Bihar; 3 static dispensaries , one mobile 
dispensary , 1 ayurvedic dispensary and 4 maternity centres in Andhra 
Pradesh ; and g di pensary - cuir -maternity and child welfare centres , 
5 mobile medical units, 12 ayurvedic dispensaries and 4 multipurpose 

centros in Rajasthan . 
A Health promotion Centre at Dhorakola in Mica flells of Bihar has been 

established . The Centre attends to the periodical medical check -up of 
mica miners and inci lainilies for detection of diseases ( occupa 

tional or otherwise ) in the early stages . 
Ten beds in the T . B . Sanatoriu ... at Ranchi and eleven beds in T . B . Hospi 

tal, Nellore have bech reserved for the exclusive use of mica miners 
and their families . Arrangement has been made for the treatment 
al the Totulmari Leprosy Hospital of mica miners of Bihar who 
suffer from leprosy . The Fund makes grants - ir -aid to these institu 

tions for the reservation of beds. 
( c ) Assistance to T . B . Patients — A subsistance allowance at Rs. 50 p . m . is 

being granted to the dependerits of mi a miners who are under treat 
nent in the T , B , Waru atiached to the Central Hospital, Karma or 
at th > T , B . Sanatorium , Ranchi. The Suneme of domiciliury treat 
nent of T . B . an l silicosis patients was also continued . The patients 
attending the out -door department of T . B . Hospital , Nellore were 
granted travelling allowance. A Rehabilitation - cum -convalescence 
Home set up in Bihar for workery cured of T . B . continued to func 

tion , 
(d ) Training . — The mic . ininers in Andhra Pradesh are being trained in 

first ald . 
(ii) Educational facilities . - Seven multipurpose institutes , each with an Adult 
Educational Centre and a Women s Welfare Centre , provide eclucational and re 
creational facilities to work - ry in Bihar . Training in handicrafts like sewing and 
knitting is given to women attending the Centres. Each institute serves as a 
training- cum -produution Centre . One Community Centre is functioning in Andhra 
Pradesh where male workers learn carpentry in their leisure time. In two 
women s centres in Andhru Pradesh and eight centres in Rajasthan , girls and 
women workers are tauglii ialloring , stitching , etc . Educational facilities for 
miners children are being provided in 5 primary schools , 2 middle Schools, 7 
community centres and 6 feeder centres in Bihar; 2 primary schools , one middle 
school and 22 adult educational centres in Rajasthan ; and 6 primary schools, one 
High School and one Middle School in Andhra Pradesh . 


In all the schools in Andhra Pradesh , children are provided with facilities like 
free mid -day meals , milk , books, slates , clothing , bags and chappals . Milk and 
snacks are provided to the miners children attending the multipurpose institutes 
in Bihar. Mid -day meals , books, slates and other stationery articles are supplied 
to the school- going children of mica miners in Rajasthan . 


Three boarding houses in Bihar and two in Andhra Pradesh 21e being run for 
the children of mica miners studying in schools and colleges. 


Scholarships are granted to the children of mica miners studying in schools 
and colleges in Bihar and Rajasthani. Such scholarships are granted for both gene 
ral and technical education , 


(ul) Recreational facilities. Three mobile cinema units , two in Bihar and one 
in Rajasthan , give free shows in different mining centres ; 18 Radio scts in Bihar ; 
18 in Andhra Pradesh and 25 in Rajasthan provide recreation to mica miners anci 
their families. In Bihar the recrentional facilities are provided at Multi - purpose , 
Community and Feeder Centres. Out- door and in - door recreational facilities are 
also provided at the centres and sub - centres in Rajasthan Bhajan parties and 
recreational clubs have also been set up in different mining areas. 


(iv ) Drinking water facilities . - 29 Wells (25 in Bihar and 4 in Andhra Pradesh ) 
have been constructed by the Fund. Eleven additional wells ( thrce in Bihar and 
eight in Andhra Pradesh ) have been sunks under the Subsidy equal to which the 
mine owners who sink wells got a subsidy equal to Rs. 7 , 500 per well or 75 per 
cent of the cost of construction , whichever is less . The construction of four more 
wells under this scheme is in progress in Andhra Pradesh . Three wells are being 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 26 , 1964 / PAUSA 5 , 1886 


Part 11 


sunk in Rajasthan through Zilla Parishads and 90 per cent of the cost of these wella 
will be met from the Fund . A dam tras also been constructed in Bihar, 
( v ) Housing Facilities 
( i) Low Cost Housing Scheme , — As there was no response to the various 

earlier housing schemes introduced from 1953 , a low - cost housing 
scheme for construction of 500 low cost houses costing about Rs. 1, 300 
each , was sanctioned in July , 1962 , for Bihar region . The houses cons 
tructed at the cost of the Fund will be handed over to mine owners 
who , besides being responsible for their maintenance , will pay a nominal 
rent of Re. 1 to Rs. 2 per month per house and allot the houses tree 

of rent to the mica miners . 
( ii) Departmental Colonies - In addition to the above scheme, construction 

of two departmental colonies of 50 houses each , ( each house costing 
Rs. 2 ,500 ) was sanctioned in Bihar at the cost of the Fund . One of 
these is nearing completion . Nine more similar colonies containing 
284 houses in all are proposed to be built in Bihar . These houses will 
be let out to mica miners free of rent through mine owners who will 

pay a nominal rent to the Fund . 
( iii ) Build Our Own House Schenve - The scheme envisages financial assis 

tance in the form of cash or building material to the mica miners to 
the extent of Rs. 325 for the purpose of improving their village houses. 
Technical assistance in the mater will be provided by the Fund . Five 

hundred houses have been sanctioned under the Scheme for Bihar . 
( iv ) Financial help in case of accidents — The Scheme relating to the grant 

of financial assistance from the Fund to the widow s and children 

of mica miners who die as a result of accidents was continued . 
( v ) Consumers Cooperative Stores - One whole sale and ten primary Con 

sumers Cooperative Stores for Bihar and four primary consumer s 
cooperative stores for Andhra Pradesh , were sanctioned with the assis 
tance of the Fund . These stores will supply consumers goods at rea 

sonable prices to the mica mining population . 
PART II . - Statement of accounts for the year 1963- 64 , 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - 


Receipts 


Expenditure * 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


. - - 


. - - - - 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Opening balance on the 1st April 

1963 , , , , , 


Andhra Pradesh 
1 , 97 , 48 ,611 Bihar , 

Rajasthan 
Closing balance 


4 , 33 , 296 
24 , 15 , 194 

4 ,68 ,460 
1 , 92 ,60 , 131 


* Receipts during the year 


, 


28, 28 ,470 


TOTAL 


TOTAL 


, 


, 


2 ,25 ,77, 081 


2 ,25,77, 081 


- - - - 

* Provisional figures . 
PART III - estimates of Receipts and Expenditure 1964-65 


27 , 00 , 000 


Reccipt Expenditure . . 

Andhra Pradesh , 
Bihar . . 
Rajasthan . 


6 ,93 ,000 


10 ,42 , 000 


42 , 38 , 000 


tAccepted for Budget estimates for 1964-65 

[No. 23( 20 )/64- M III ] 


Sra. $(tt)] THE GAZE 


E OF INDIA : DECEN 


20 , 1964 / PAUSA 5, 1: 


New Delhi, the 18th December 1964 
S . O . 4368 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section 1 of section 5 
of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
A . C . Nag as Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector of Mines and 
makes the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment S . O . 531 dated the 2nd March , 
1961, namely : 

In the said notification , the following entry shall be added at the end, name 
ly : - - 
“ ( 69 ) Shri A , C . Nag." 

[No. 8 / 63 / 62 -MI. ] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1964 
$ . 0 , 4369.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 5 
of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (il of 1948 ) , and after considering the advice 
of the Committee constituted under clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of the said sec 
tion , the Central Government hereby revises the minimum rates of wages Axed 
under the said Act for the following categories of employees employed in agri 
culture at (i ) the Vegetable Brecding Sub - station , Indian Agricultural Research 
Institute . Kulu Valley , P . O . Katrain , District Kulu , Punjab and ( ii) the Southern 
Regional Station of the National Dairy Research Institute , Bangalore . specified 
in the Schedule annexed hereto and directs that this notification shall come into 
torce on the 20th January 1965. 

SCHEDULE 
Categanes of employees 

All inclusive minimuin rate of 

wages per day 
(i) .Vegetable Breeding Suhatation , 

Kulu l alley . 


( I) Unskilled Worker 
( 2 ) Unskilled Worker 


(Male ) . . 
(Female) . . 


Rs. 2 . 00 
Rs. 1 . 75 


( ii ) Southern Regional Syution of the 

Nationul Duiry Research 
Institute , Adugodi, Bangalore, 


Men Women muzdoors . 


Rs. 2 25 


[No. LWI( I )013 ) / 84. ] 
S . O . 4370 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 3 of the Minimum Wages Act , 1948 (11 of 1948 ) , and after considering 
the advice of the Committee constituted under clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 5 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby revises the minimum 
rates of wages payable to certain categories of employees employed in agriculture 
at the Vegetable Breeding Sub -station , Indian Agricultural Research Institute, 
Kulu Valley , P . O . Katrain . District Kulu , Punjab , specified in the Schedule annexed 
hereto , and directs that this notification shall come into force on 20th January , 
1965 . 

SCHEDULE 
Categories of employees 

All inclusie minimum rates of 

wuges per day . 
1 . Serni- skilled male workers 

... Rs. 2.50. 
2 . Skilled male workers 
( Carpenter, Blacksmith ) 

... Rs. 4 :54 . 

[No. LWI( 1 ) 6 ( 3 ) , 61. 1 
R . M . DOIPHODE, Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


P RINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS . 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1964 . 


