if 3' > f'l * 


REGISTERED No. D 322 


3lRcT^^I5Wfr 

(Tire (Saxette of ^ndio 


« swfsra 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


“(j 34 i Tf 'T7TT HfdETT, 21, 1 9 7 3 0, 189 3 

No. 34] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, A* G1 ST ii, 1971 SRAVANA 3«> *»93 

HFT i) fvTR <fK5 tfwx *4 7fT?ft $ fafRH & t?q if 5TT I 

Separate paging Is given to this Part in order that it may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 

ttet II — urnr — T-EU.* (ii) 

PART 11 — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(T*T ^ SjiftfT) HTTd tfWJT $ *HTTSpff USTWR 

Urdu !TTf!iwif gr-ci urO fari *n( fafaT wrisT wfaHjHTT’' 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern- 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 

ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

S.O. 3031. — In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Judgment, dated the 21st 
May, 1971 by the High Court of Judicature at Patna In Election Petition No 2 o( 
1970. 


Election Petition No 2 or 1970 

In the matter of an application under Sections 80A and 81 of the Represen- 
tation of the People Act, 1951. 

Shrimati Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh — Petitioner. 

Yersus 

Shrl Niral Ainam Horo — Respondent. 

For the petitioner- Messrs Basudev Prasad, Narendar Prasad, C. B. Belwariar, 
R. N. Sahay and Mrs. S. R. Jaiswal. 

For the respondent- Messrs Manilall and Daya Nand fingh. 

The 21st of May, 1971 

Present 

The Hon’ble Mr. Justice S. Wasluddin, 

( 4^35 ) 


4236 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


Wjmsiuddin, J. — This petition relates to 51 Khunti Parliamentary (Scheduled 
Tribes) Constituency for the election of which the present petitioner Shrimati 
Johan Ara Jaipal Singh has filed nomination papers and the same were rejected. 
Shri Nlral Ainam Horo who is a respondent in this case was ejected at that election. 
The present petition has been filed on the ground that the nomination papers were 
illegally rejected by the Returning Officer. 

2. The case of llic petitioner briefly stated is as follows : 

Petitioner is a citizen of India belonging to the State of Bihai and she is a 
voter and her name is enrolled in the electoral roll of the 51 Khunti 
Parliamentary (Scheduled Tribe) Constituency. She was married to 
late Shri Jaipal Singh, who was a Munda and she by religion is a 
Christian. According to the Munda customary law, when a Munda 
male marries outside the Munda tribe and if his marriage is accept- 
ed by the Munda tribe, he continues to be a member of that tribe and 
his wife acquires the membership of the tribe and she is also a mem- 
ber of her husband’s family with all rights of succession to her hus- 
band’s properties. The petitioner by birth was a Tamil and she was 
married to late Shri Jaipal Singh in the year 1954 according to the 
rites and rituals of the Munda in the presence of Parha Raja, Parha 
Munda. Parha Pahan. relatives of late Shri Jaipal Singh and the mem- 
bers of the tribe at Morabadi, one of the mohallas of Ranchi town. 
After the aforesaid marriage she was received into the family of late 
Shri Jaipal Singh at his village home in Takra, police-station Khunti 
in the district of Ranchi, in accordance with the Munda customs, 
such as. by washing of her feel by the eldest sister of late Shri Jaipal 
Singh whose name is Shrimati Kristornani. A Munda Pahan celebrat- 
ed the marriage of the petitioner in Unda customary manner with 
feasts of he-goat meet and drinks of Handia, The petitioner was also 
given a new name by her mother-in-law and the name given tn her 
was Lankashr, All these functions were witnessed by the Parha 
Raja, Parha Munda, Parha Pahan and other members of the tribe. 
The new name was also given to her because the members of the tribe 
according to the tribal customs were prohibited from calling her by 
her maiden-name. 

3. The details Of the ceremonies which were performed have been given in the 
petition and these are as follows: — 

"(a) The marriage took place by the sanction of the tribe. 

(b) Hiraman Pahan did the Kalas Asthapan in the Marwu where the 
the marriage ceremonies were performed. 

<c) Tilak of mixture of blood of the bride and the (bride-groom was given 
and a he-goat was sacrificed. 

(d) The younger sister of Late Sri Jaipal Singh took the petitioner from the 

place of worship to his house for her reception. 

(e) Petitioner's feet were washed with the blood of the sacrificed cock. 

(f) A new name was given to the petitioner since the daughter-in-law is not 

called by her original maiden-name. 

(g) The members of the Munda Tribal group in question celebrated the 

marriage by a feast, of meat of he-goat and drinks of Handia at the 
expense of the bride-groom’s (Late Sri Jaipal Singh’s) family.” 

4. The petitioner also after the death of her husband succeeded to his proper- 
ties. 

3. On the 1st or May, 1970 the Election Commission of India Issued a notifica- 
tion calling upon tbe above-named pariicm-ntcrv Constituency to elect a member 
of the Lok Sabha (House of the Peop’e of India) m Ihe vacancy caused by the 
death of Late Sri Jripal Singh, was a ocuncallon also in the Gazette and 

the last date for filing the nomination papers was the 8th May, 1970. The 9th 
of May, 1970 was the date of scrutiny of the nomination papers, Several other 
persons' filed nomination papers, such as, Sri Thodore Bodra. Sri Matiyas Demta 
and others whose names are mentioned in the election petition. Two nomination 
papers were filed on behalf of the petitioner, who was a Congress (Ruling) candi- 
date for the aforesaid bv-election to the Lok Sabha. The nomination papers of the 
petitioner were July filed in accordance with the requirements of law and they 
were accompanied with the necessary certificates of the Pahans of the tribe in 
question and of the District Welfare Officer of Ranchi and of Sri Shiva Chandriia 
Prasad, a member of the Lok Sabha to the effect that the petitioner Is the widow 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGtm ^ 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4237 


d Tribe in the 


Late Sri Jalpal Singh and is a member of the Munda SchpUMj 
State of Bihur. These certificates are annexures to the petition thev are 
Annexures 1 to 1/2. It is also stated in the petition that the District Well**-,/ offlrer 
who granted the ceiuficate was duly authorised both under the delefliwju 
poweib of the District Officer concerned, namely tne Deputy Commissioner" »£ 
Ranchi and in exercise of his own powers to certify that a person belonged to onb- 
of the Scheduled Tribes including the Munda Scheduled Tribe within the district 
°1 Ranchi Nomination papers with the endorsements thereon arc also as An- 
nexure 2 to 2/1 to the petition. 


6. Sri Bodra who was one of the rival candidates filed an objection petition to 
the nomination papers of the petitioner. The scrutiny of the nomination papers was 
held on the 9th of May, 1970 and the objections of Sri Theojore Bodra as well as 
the oral objections of the other candidates was heard. The petitioner was also 
heard through her consul by the Returning Officer. After hearing these persons 
the Returning Officer illegally reserved order in the case till 4 30 PM althoujjh the 
law enjoined upon him to pass orders In presence of the parties immediately 
alter the hearing of the objections. On the same day, that i s on 9th May. [970 at 
4.30 P.M. the RclliU ing Officer passed an order and rejected the nomination papers 
of the petitioner v.u Incut holding any inquiry about mo matter as enjoined by law 
and without giving adequate opportunity to 1 be petitioner to adduce lurther evi- 
dence, if necessary, 111 respect of her c'aim of the membership of the Munda Tribe. 
The ID Laming Oil’ er while htaring" the objections illegally allowed irrelevant 
personal aspeisions lo be cast against the petitioner by her opponents even after pro- 
tests made on behall of the petitioner and it has also been stated that on inquiry as 
to why the Returning Officer was conducting himself in that manner, the petitioner 
came to loam from responsible persons ol the locality and from the above-mention- 
ed Sri Matiyas Demtr. himself that the (Returning Officer had been influenced by Sri 
Theodore Bodra, vim was the Chairman oi the Bihar Legislative Council at the 
relevant point of time. The nomination napers of ail Ihe candidates except those 
fl Ihe / tit 1 ,i-_i u'-i'c accepted as valid by the Returning Officer. The polling 
Lhereailer va; he’d and then on the 3rd of June, 1970 tne Returning Officer 
innounced m tc ■ 't oi the election and declared the respondent ns a member of 
he Lok bsl ha Run) the aforesaid Constituency. 


7. According to the petitioner the election of the respondent to the Lok Sabha 
Scheduled Tiibe Pailiomcntarv Constituency is void and Moval anrl is fit lo be set 
isiJe on the grounds inter alia that the Returning Officer acted In a mala fide 
nanner and deprived the petitioner of legal right to contest the by-election in 
jucstlon and that the fundamental right oi equal treatment guaranteed under Arti- 
cle 114 of the Constitution was aim infringed. The Returning Officer also com- 
nittecl error in arbitrarily and illegally holding that the status oi Munda Tribe is 
lcqju.'d only by means of birth and not by marriage and that the petitioner did 
lot belong to Ihe Munda Scheduled Tribe even though her husband belonged lo 
hat Tiibe and the Tribe had accepted that marriage o”d her membership of Ihe 
Tribe, The Returning Officer also acted without jurisdiction in omiiting lo consider 
he custom oi which .indicia 1 notice is to tie taken that if a Munda male muiries a 
yomen not belonging to the Munda Tribe and he is accepted by the Tribe, he con- 
inues to be a member of the Tribe and his wife acquires the membership of the 
rihe and becomes 1 member of her husband’s family. The Returning Officer also 
vas not right m rejecting the certificates which had been filed by the 
petitioner along with the nomination papers and the Returning Officer also acted 
without jurisdiction in going into the question of title and placing of onus on the 
petitioner when under the provisions of Section 36 of the Representation, of the 
People Act. 1951 read wit 1 '. Articles 342 and 330 of the Constitution of India along 
with the Presidential Ora era in relation to the Scheduled Tribes in the State of 
Bihar, it was his duty to accept the petitioner as a member of the Munda tribe and 
her valuable right to stand as a candidate for election to the Lok Sabha to re- 
present the members of the Tribe was denied to her. The Returning Officer was 
not justified in summarily rejecting ihe nomination papers filed on behalf of the 
petitioner. 

8. Originally when this election petition was filed, the petitioner impleaded 
only Sri Horo as a respondent in the petition and I have already stated that 
he was declared to be elected from that seat. Afterwards a petition was filed 
making a prayer that the other contesting candidates were not necessary' parties as 
contemplated by Section 82 of the Act, but may he added subject to any objection 
which may be raised. Those persons were also then added as parties to the peti- 
tion, Vide Order dated 29-7-1970 and thereafter it was submitted on behalf 
of the petitioner that they were not necessary parties and hence on the prayer 
of the petitioner their names were expunged. There has, therefore, been only one 
respondent in this petition. 



4238 THE GAZETTE OE INDLV.- AtJGUSl 21, 1 97 1 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Pvu il - 


9. A wrille ( >' Statement was flied on behalf of the respondent and his ease 

briefly state*’’ it> ns follows: The respondent stated that although the petitioner 
was as wife of Late Sri Jaipal Singh, she was never married according 

to \y' customs of Munda tribes prevalent in Chotanagpur. The petitioner was 
jpao never accepted as n member of the Munda community and there is also no 
Such customs prevalent under which a non-Munda is accepted as a member of 
the Tribe. As regards the formalities a i d the rituals which aic said to have 
been observed at the time of the marriage of the petitioner, it was submitte l Lhat 
aiJ such allegations were imaginary and burden lms on the petitioner to establish 
that such 1 itnals were observed at the time c»f her marriage wiLh Late Sil Juipal 
Singh, it was also further submitted that even assuming though rot .admitting 
that she was married to Late Bu jaipa! S-m b, she cannot claim to be a member 
of the Scheduled Tribe which she was not by her birth. According to the res- 
pondent the petitioner was a nominee of Congress (Ruling), but the petitioner 
concealed this fact that she was not a member of the Scheduled Tribe from the 
authority of the Congress (Ruling) otherwise she would not have been sc n cled as 
such, tt has aHo been submitted by the respondent that the nomination papers 
filed by the petitioner contained ialse declarations as well as the certificates refer- 
red to 111 the election petition as Annexures 1 , 1/1 and ]/2 are also fa'se, illegal 
and fraudulently obtained with undue Influence on the persons concerned. Simi- 
larly the certificate was obtained from the District Welfare Officer fraudulently 
after misrepresenting the facts. The nomination papers filed on behalf of the 
petitioner were righiiy rejected and full opportunity had been given to the peti- 
tioner and the other contesting candidates to raise obieclions and meet the ob- 
jections which were raised. It is also said that the election petition was barred 
by limilation and that due to non-impleading the necessary party, a contesting 
candidate against whom serious allegations of corrupt practice are made and so 
the election petition is liable to b° dismissed, The petitioner is not a Munda 
and has never been legally treated as such by virtue of the alleged marriage with 
Late Sri Jaipal Singh A non-Munda merely by virtue of marriage with a Munda 
cannot ipso facto become a Munda. 

10. It may be mentioned hero that during] the pendency of this election peti- 
tion the House of People (Lok Sabha) was dissolved on the 27th December, 1970. 
A petition had been filed on behalf of the respondent that the election petition 
should be dismissed as being infructuous. There was objection to this and after 
hearing the parties I passed orders that the election petition could not be dis- 
missed on this ground, wide my order No. 31 dated the 14th of January, 1971. 


11. The following issues have been framed m this case: — 

(1) Is the election petition maintainable? 

(2) Whether the petitioner was the legalJy married wife of Late Sri Jaipal 

Singh, according toi the custom of Munda Tribq prevalent in Chota- 
nagpur? 

( 3 ) Whether the petitioner could legally acquire the status of a ‘Munda’ by 

virtue of her marriage to Late Sri JalpRl Singh and whether she had 
been accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe by the said Tribe? 

(4) Was the petitioner eligible to be a candidate for the election in ques- 

tion’ 

( 5 ) Was the nomination paper of the petitioner wrongly and illegally re- 

jected by the Returning Officer? 

( 6 ) Was the Returning Officer bound in law and in the circumstances of the 

case to hold an inouiry and whether any such enquiry was held by 
him according to law and whether opportunity had been given tr> the 
petitioner in respect of her claim for further enquiry? 

(7) Is the petitioner entitled to any relief 7 If so. to what extent. 


Findings 

19 issue No 1 .— Now as far as this issue Is concerned, the only objection which 
has been taken is that the present petition suffers from the defect of non-joinder 
of necessary party and as such is liable to be dismissed on that ground It may 
be again mentioned here that originally when this election petition was filed the 
present respondent Sri Horo who was successful at the election was only lmplead- 
ed in tffis mtition, but later on, a petition was filed on behalf of the petitioner 
making a prayer that the other contesting candidates were Msp ““"had been 

SW TjA « ?E°&aJe 

Sbe a haTf h offfil pTtUion« e that n on reconsideration it was found that such of those 



3 Ui)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 971 /SR A VAN A V), 1833 4259 


person:., who were subsequently added were no;, necessary parties and, therefore, 
their Mine.-: may be deleted rr was in 'I r b; e.-'iiieid; that those name's were expung- 
ed from the record including Sri T. Bodra, Sri T. Bodra is, therefore, not, a 
party to t-li's present proceeding. it has 'teen urged on behalf of the respondent 
that Sti i. Bodra was a necessary parly to inis petition under clause (b) of 
Sc;: non 82 oil tht Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter to be refer- 
red to as 'the Act'/ In paragraph 21 of the petition (to which I have also made 
a reference while, stating the facia ox cho case) allegations were made to the effect 
liiai ihe Reluming Oilicer under the influence of Sx'i T. Bodra iejceLed the nomi- 
nation paper 01 the petitioner. Paragraph 21 of the election petition recites as 
follows : — 

“That the Hemming Officer, wiihe hoaxing the objections illegally allowed 
irrelevant personal aspersions to be cast against the petitioner by her 
opponent.: and the aforesaid even after protests made by and on 
uehalf of tht petitioner, Smt. j ohanova against the same. On enquiry 
as to why Ibe Returning Officer was conducting himself in that 
manner Ihe petitioner came to learn from responsible persons of the 
locality and from the above mentioned Shri Matiyas Demta himself 
that he had been influenced by the said Sri Theodora Bodra. who 
was Chairman of the Bihar Legislative Council on the relevant date 
and her oilier opponents against he''.” 

It will appear from a perusal of the aforesaid paragraph that there is no doubt 
that a Co.-finite allegation had been made by the petitioner to the effect that she 
leamt on inquiry that the Returning Officer was conducting himself in a manner 
prejudicial to the pel it; oner because he was under the influence of Sri T. Bodra, 
who was Chairman of the Bihar Legislative Council. It has, therefore, been urged 
that since there was a direct allegation against Sir T. Bodra. so he was a necessary 
party and there lias been non-compiiance with the provisions of clause (b) of Sec- 
tion 82 of the Act. It has been contended, on the other hand, Ifiat ihis election 
petition cannot fail on this ground because there was only 0 recital about the 
allegation in paragraph 21 of the petition, but the petitioner has not relied on it 
and has not led any evidence with regard to the same. It may be stated here 
that opart from such a recital in paragraph 21 of the petition no evidence what- 
soever in this respect was Jed on behalf of the petitioner nor any such question 
was put to any of the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondent to elicit 
answers about the veracity of the allegation made in paragraph 21 of the peti- 
tion. It may be : - ntioned here that it was only when the petitioner herself v/as 
examined as P.W. 12 in this case, then in the cross-examination the learned counsel 
for the respondent drew her attention the recital in paragraph 21 and she admitted 
that she had made such an allegation in the petition, but there was no assertion 
in her evidence or in the evidence of any other witness that the allegation which 
had been made there was true. It may be also mentioned here that the petitioner 
has solely based her case on the ground that the nomination paper was illegally 
and improperly rejected. No relief has been sought that it was under undue 
influence and no allegation in the evidence has been made that the order of re- 
jection by the Returning Officer was bad on account of his having passed such 
an order under the undue influence of Sri Bodra. In my opinion. In view of the 
circumstances, stated above, when m> prayer or relief is being sought on the 
basis of the allegation made in paragraph 21, so Sri T. Bodra in that light does 
not appear to he a necessary party. 

13. The matter ha= to be examined from another point of view also whether 
under the provisions cl the Act, it was necessary for the petitioner to implead 
Sri Bodfa- Chapter II of part VI of the Act deals with presentation of election 
petition to Election Commission. Section 82 of the Act lays down as t 0 who 
should be the parties to an election petition. Section 82 of the Act runs as fol- 
lows: — 

“82, A petitioner shall join as respondent tr> his petition — 

(a) where the petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the 

election of ail or any of the returned candidates is void, claims a 
further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has 
been duly elected, all the contesting candidates other than the peti- 
tioner, ar.d where no such further declaration is claimed, all the 
returned candidates: and 

(b) any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice 

are made in the petition.” 

It may be stated here that in this election petition no relief has been sought 
for as contemplated by clause (a) of Section 82, quoted above and, therefore, 



4240 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II— 


da us e (a) section 82 would not be applicable in thi, case. It may also be stated 
^ 1 , en f n f d counsel lor the respondent has also not relied on clause (a) 

n 8 i, de had relIe ‘l 011 clause (b) of Section 82 of the Act. Clause 

(h) Section 82 of the Act makes it imperative that any other candidate meaning 

of course a candidate other than one who has been ejected should also be made 

a party If there are allegations against him In the petition of any corrupt prao 


14. An important question, therefore, arises for consideration as to what is a 
corrupt practice and for this I may refer to Section 123 of the Ant. This Section 
clearly lays down as to what are the acls which will be deemed to be a corrupt 
Practice with in the meaning of the Act. Reliance has been placed on sub-section 
(1) of Section 123 of the Act by the learned counsel for the respondent. Sub-section 
(7) of Section 123 of the Act runs as follows; — 

’'123. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes 
of this Act: — 


(7) The obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or pro- 
cure by a candidate or his agent or, by any other person with the 
consent of a candidate or his election agent any assistance other than 
the giving of a vote for the furtherance of the prospects of that candi- 
date’s election, from any person in the service of the Government 
and belonging to any of the following classes, namely: — 

(a) gazetted officers; 

(b/ stipendiary judges and magistrates; 

(c) members of the armed forces of the Union; 

(d) members of the police forces; 

(e) excise officers; 

(f) revenue officers other than village revenue officers known as lambar- 

dars, malguzars patois, deshmukhs or by any other name whose 
duty is to collect land revenue and who are remunerated by a share 
of, or commission on, the amount of land revenue collected by them 
but who do not discharge any police functions; and 

(gl such olher class of persons in the service of the Government as may 
be prscribed. 

I'uxplunatvm. — (1) In this section “agent’’ includes an election agent, a polling 
agent and any person who is held to have acted as a agent in connection with 
the election vtdth consent of tb.a candidate. 


(2) For the purpose of clause (7). a person shall be deemed to assist in the 
furtherance of the prospects of a candidate’?; election If he acts as an election 
agent of that, candidate.” 

This section, there Core, lays down that if there is any allegation about the obtain- 
ing or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain oi< procure by a candidate 
or his agent, . . .for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate’s election, from 
any person in the service of the Government and the classes o£ such Government 
servants are enumerated in the section. The important words are “for the fur- 
therance of the prospects of that candidate’s election.” There is no allegation hero 
that Sri T. Bodru did anything in the election itself, and the only allegation, is 
that he exercised bis influence in getting an order of rejection of the nomination 
paper of the petitioner. In rpy opinion, strictly speaking the allegation as con- 
tained in paragraph 21 of the petition would not come within the scope of sub- 
section (7) of Section 123 of the Act 1 and alternatively even if It does then the 
other answer is that no prayer or relief has been sought for on that account. It 
will be deemed that although such allegation was made yet it. has been given up. 

I have: already discussed above this aspect of the matter. I may also in this 
connection refer to Section 100 of the Act, It lays down as to what are the grounds 
for declaring an election to be void and clause (c) of Section 100 of the AG clearly 
lays down that if any nomination has been improperly rejected it would be one 
of the gorvmds for declaring the election void. Here in this case, a-; 1 have al- 
ready pointed above, the main p’ank of the petitioner's case Is that there was 
improper rejection of her nomination paper which was contrary 10 ,';uv and it 
was without jurisdiction. The question whether there was undue influence or 
not dire Tint arise for consideration and up determination of this point has to be 
made ?.r 0 c+her defect relating to the maintainability of this present petition 
has been raised and therefore, in view of the facts, stated above, this issue is 
decided in favour of the petitioner. 



Sue. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: ^UGUST 21, 1971/SRA v'ANA ,o ;k9? f 


15. Issue IVos. 2 to 6 — AH these issues are inter-connected and these can be con- 
veniently discussed together. There were two nomination papers filed by the peti- 
tioner and these are Annexures 2 and 2/1. The proposers were the electors in the 
Constituency. Both these nomination papers were supported by a declaration by 
the petitioner to the effect that she was member of the Munda Scheduled Tribe 
As slated above, objection was filed by Sri T. Bodra and the objection petition is 
also an annexure to this election petition. The main objection was that the peti- 
tioner is a daughter of Sri T. C. S. Jayaratnam, I.C.S. (Retired) of Ceylon and she 
was married to Late Sri Jaipal Singh on the 8th of May, 1955- It may bo mentioned 
here that the petitioner’s case in this present election petition is that she was 
married in May, 1954. However, turning again to the objection petition which was 
filed, the ground of objection was that a person can claim to be a member of the 
Munda Tribe only by birth which is a deciding factor but the petitioner is not a 
Munda by birth and only on account of her marriage, she cannot bo a member of 
the Munda Tribe. The Deputy Commissioner, Ranchi who was the Returning 
Officer and has also been examined as a witness In the case, vide R.W. 1 rejected 
both these nomination papers by one order. The main reason for rejection was that 
the descent is by birth and according to him the ethnic status cannot be acquired 
by marriage- The aforesaid order of the Returning Officer in this present election 
petition has been attacked by the learned counsel for the petitioner on three main 
grounds. The first ground Is that on the basis of materials cn record, such as, the 
evidence and the circumstances it ought to have been held that her marriage with 
Late Sri Jaipal Singh was according to the Munda custom and that she was accept- 
ed as a member of ' the Munda Tribe at the time of the marriage. So she is a 
member of the Munda Tribe. The second ground of attack is that the order of the 
Returning Officer rejecting the nomination papers is in excess of the powers con- 
ferred on him under Section 36 of the Act. The third contention which has been 
raised is that even assuming that Section 36 of the Act confers such a power on 
the Returning Officer, such as, to determine the status and rights of a certain person, 
who has filed a nomination paper, then such power is ultra vires of Articles 14, 372 
and 330 cf the Constitution of India. 

16. Now before I discuss the evidence in the case which has been adduced and 

the circumstances emanating from the evidence it will be better here if I refer to 
the relevant provisions of law which would require consideration- Part XVI of the 
Constitution of India begining from Article 330 onwards deals with the special pro- 
visions relating to certain classes. Article 330 ct the Constitution provides for the 
reservation of scats for certain special classes, such as, the Scheduled Tribes as 
mentioned In clause 1(b) of Article 330. I need not refer to the other clauses 
because here in this case we are concerned with the Scheduled Tribes. Article 342 
of the Constitution lays down that the President may with respect to any State or 
Union territory and where it is a State, after consultation with the Governor thereof 
by public notification specify the tribes or tribal communities or parts of or groups 
within tribes or tribal communities which shall for the purposes of this Constitu- 
tion be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes in relation to that Slate or Union territory, 
as the case may be. Clause (2) of Article 342 of the Constitution also lays down 
that the Pa rliament may by law include in or exclude from the list of Scheduled 
Tribes specified in a notification issued under clause (i) any tribe or tribal com- 
munity or part of or group within any tribe or tribal community, bur save as 

aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any 
subsequent notification. Wo are also not concerned here with this latter clause of 
Article 342. Now in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 342 

of the Constitution the President has been pleased to pass an order and this is 

called ‘the Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order. 1950 and it reads thus — 

‘‘In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of Article 342 of the Con- 
stitution of India, the President, after consultation with the Governors 

and Rajpramukhs of the States concerned is pleased to make the 

following Order, namely: — 

1 This Order may be called the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 
1952. 

2. The tribes or tribal communities, or parts of, or groups within tribes 

or tribal communities, specified in Parts I to Xll to the Schedule 

to this Order shall, in relation to the States to which those parts 

respectively relate, be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes so far as 

regards members thereof re ide' it in the localities specified in rela- 
tion to them respectively in those Parts of that Schedule. 

3. Any reference in this Orde., except parts IV arid VIIA .of the Schedule, 

to a State or to a district or other territorial division thereof 
shall be construed as a reference to the State district or other 
territorial division constituted as from the 1st day of November, 



4242 THE r^ZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II — 


1956 and any reference in Parts IV and VII-A of the Schedule 
to a State or to a district or other territorial division thereof shall 
be construed as a reference to the State, district or other terri- 
torial division constituted as from the 1st day of May, 1960. 


Now in the Schedules given in this Order, I may turn to Part III which is in 
respect of the Scheduled Tribes in Bihar and item No. 24 mention ‘Munda'. So 
reading this Order along with the Schedule ‘Munda’ is one of the Scheduled Tribes. 
In view of the facts which I have stated above, a very important question which 
will have to be decided is whether the petitioner can be deemed to be a mem, tier 
of the Scheduled Tribes as contemplated by the Constitution of Scheduled Tribes 
Order, quoted above, 

17. Section 36 of the Act deals with the scrutiny oi nomination and sub-section 
(2) confers power on the Returning Officer to reject the nomination papers. I 
need not deal here in detail with the other provisions at this place because I will 
have to revert again to these provisions when I deal with the Order passed by the 
Returning Officer. I may, however, in this connection refer to Section 3 also of the 
Act which deals with qualifications for membership of Parliament. It lays down 
that a person shall not be qualified to be chosen as a representative of any State 
or Union territory in the Council of States unless he is an elector far that Parlia- 
mentary constituency in that State or territory. This would naturally mean that 
a nomination paper has to be scrutinized in light of the provisions contained in 
Section 3 of the Act. 

18. There are certain facts in this case which are either admitted or not dis- 
puted. The petitioner does not claim to be a member of the Munda Scheduled 
Tribe by virtue of her birth, but she claims to be so by virtue of a marriage with 
a Munda, viz, Late Sri Jalpal Singh and the marriage was after observance of such 
formalities which show that with the necessary consent and sanction she had been 
accepted as a member of that Tribe. This position is not disputed that Late Sri 
Jalpal Singh was a Munda. It also appears that the petitioner is herself a Tamil 
by birth as stated by her in her petition. It is also clear from her own petition 
that she is a Christian by birth though in her evidence she has stated that she is 
a Christian yet she has leaning towards Budhism. Further it may also be men- 
tioned here that this position is also not disputed that Late Sri Jalpal Singh had 
been married earlier, but he had divorced his first wife. The present petitioner 
had been also married earlier, that is, before her marriage with Late Sri Jaipal 
Singh and as it appears from her own evidence she also obtained a divorce. She 
had filed a suit in which a decree Nisi had been passed and this decree Nisi was 
made obsolute on the ttth of May, 1954 and so after that when she became free, she 
married Late Sri Jaipal Singh on the 7th of May, 1954. In the petition only the 
year ‘1954' has been mentioned, but the date of the marriage has not been men- 
tioned. It may also be mentioned here that from the written statement filed on 
behalf of the respondent as well as evidence which has been led on his behalf to 
which I will be presently refererrlng the fact that she was married to late Sri 
Jalpal Singh has not been disputed. But the real controversy between the parties 
is on the point whether the marriage was in such form that would make her a 
member of the Tribe. It may also be mentioned here that according to the 
respondent as has been vehemently argued by the learned counsel for the respon- 
dent that as she was not a ‘Munda’, so a marriage of a Munda with a non-Munda 
could not be permissible in any circumstances and a non-Munda lady marrying a 
Mundg can never become a member of the Munda Tribe. 

19. Now I will take up a discussion of the question whether the petitioner on 
the basis of the evidence adduced in the case and in the circumstances of the 
case, has been able to prove that her marriage with Late Sri Jaipal Singh was 
according to the Munda custom and it was in such a form that she was accepted 
and treated and thus became a member of the Munda Tribe. There are twelve 
witnesses examined on behalf of the petitioner including the petitioner herself 
who is P.W. 12 . and six witnesses in all were examined on behalf of the respon- 
dent, 'Hie evidence adduced on behalf of the petitioner can be classified into two 
categories. The first category is of the witnesses, who were not witnesses of the 
marriage ceremonies, but have stated that she by virtue of such a marriage has 
become a Munda and that such a marriage is permissible amongst the Munda®. 
The witnesses in this respect are P.Ws. 1 , 3 and 4. The other category of the 
witnessefl ia of those consisting of course of the Para Raja Pahan, who performed 
the mot-rlHve and the relations of Late Sri Jaipal Singh, such as P.Ws. 2, 5, 6 , 7, 
8 , 9, 10 and 1.1 who have stated about the actual ceremony of the marriage, 
P.W. 12. as stated above, is petitioner herself. 



Sec. -HiUJ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA HO, 1893 4243 


20, P.W. I is J. B. Hembrom, who is a Deputy Collector and he was posted at 
Ranchi in the capacity of District Wclsarc Officer, He has stated that as a Wel- 
fare Officer his duties were to look alter the welfare of the Scheduled tribes, 
scheduled castes and depressed and backward classes. He was under the Deputy 
Commissioner Hancni and lias also stated that according to the instructions issued 
by the Government and the delegation of the authority to him by the Deputy 
Commissioner, he had been also empowered to issue caste certificates. It may be 
again mentioned here that he had granted a caste certificate to the petitioner to 
the effect that she was a member of the Munda Scheduled Tribe, and this certi- 
ficate had been attached to the nomination paper by the petitioner. I may in 
this connection refer here to the Government publication issued by the Welfare 
Department of Bihar which is a compendium of important circulars and letters and 
in this case compendium there is a Government letter memo No. III/S2. 109/5d-.'j2ii4 
dated the l&th March, 1958 and it has been seated in this letter of the Government 
addressed to all Heads 01 Departments and the District Officers that when a can- 
didata who belongs to a Scheduled Casta or a Scheduled Tribe is required to sub- 
urb a certificate tnat he belongs to a Scheduled Casic/Tribe along with his appli- 
cation lor a post under tne State Government same difficulty is experienced in 
obtaining such u certificate. In order to avoid any inconvenience to candidates 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes/ 1\ ibis in this connection, Government have 
deeide'd that in all cases where a candidate for appointment to a post under the 
State Government is required to furnish such a certificate from any one of the 
officers mentioned in this letter shall 03 accepted, The District Magistrate is one 
of the officers who has been authorised under this letter to issue caste certificate, 
The evidence of P.W. I has to be read along with Ext. I which shows the dist.ibu 
tion of work among the officers and Sri liembrom (P.W. I) was authorised by this 
document, by the District Magistrate, that is, the Deputy Commissioner to issue 
caste certificates. There can be no doubt that by virtue of these documents P.W. I 
had been duly empowered and authorised to Issue caste certificate. The letter 
refers only to certificates granted to persons who apply for posts, but in this case 
the certificate was granted to a candidate for the membership of the Parliament. 

I think that this will not make any difference, There can be no doubt about the com- 
petency of the certificate granted by this officer. It may also be mentioned here 
that the Returning Officer also took into consideration this certificate, but in view 
of the totality of the circumstances which he has discussed in his order he did not 
place reliance on this document. The question now arises as to what value should 
be attached to such a certificate. It appears from the evidence ol P.W. I that he 
had not made personal inquiry before granting the certificate and Ills certificate 
was really based on his personal knowledge of this fact that the petitioner was the 
wife of Late Sri Jalpal Singh. It may be said that as he had not made any inquiry 
or verification, so he could not be in a competent position to state what he has said 
in his certificate. But there is one another thing also about which this officer has 
stated because according to him if a Munda marries a non-Munda and if a feasi is 

f iven and if the eiders of the society accept that marriage and participate in the 
east, then the wife of that Munda would become a member of the Munda Tribe. 
It can also be equally argued with force that being the District Welfare Officer he 
was in competent position to state about this. The evidence of this witness finds 
ample support from the evidence cf the two other witnesses of this category, viz. 
P.Ws. 8 and 4. 

21. P.W. 3 is Thakur Rameshwar Sharma, who is an Assistant Director in 
Sociology, Bihar Tribal Welfare Institute, Government of Bihar, Ranchi. One of 
his duties is to render advice to the Government on such matters as may be re- 
ferred to him for advice and opinion concerning the field and scope of his work, 
He has stated that at present he is doing research work on the subject ‘Bihar 
Tribal Marriage and Family Transformation’ with special reference to family law. 
One of his duties has also been to meet a id come in contact with the members of 
different tribes to ascertain facts relating to tha subject of his research. He has 
stated that Late Sri Jalpal Singh ‘Marang Gomka’ (big leader) was known to him, 
He has also slated that recently he had been asked by the Government to report 
on the status of issues by mixed tribal marriages and he has submitted his report 
to the Government, and he has gathered information about the marriage of Jaip. 
Singh in the course of his contacts with the tribal neople. He has further stated 
that in 1954 or near about 1954 a Munda male could marry a non-Munda girl and 
after adopting a special procedure in some cases such non-Munda women were ac- 
cepted as members of the tribe. A procedure or formality according to him has to be 
gone through in which council of elders of the tribal people is consulted and the 
special reason for the purpose is stated and then the feast rituals like jati is gone 
through and then the marriage is allowed. He has also given Instances of such 
marriages and has stated that near Lckikpur in Singhbhum there is a Santhal 
Pradhan and there was a marriage of his according to this special procedure. The 



^44 lHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


research work done by this officer has also been recognised by the Government oi 
India and he has also stated that in this connection Dhebar Commission's report 
may be also consulted where his name finds mention at many places. This wit- 
ness oi' course did not attend the marriage ceremony of the petitioner and he had 
also not been to village Takra which is the ancestral village home of Late Sri 
Jaipal Singh but on the basis of the research work which he has been doing, he 
has stated authoritatively that now a Munda can marry a non-Mundu provided the 
required formalities in the family are gone into and the elders of the community 
give their approval and sanction, a non-Muncla woman so married is accepted and 
becomes a member of the Munda Tribe. 

22. P.W. 4 is N, C. Choudhuri, who is the Superintendent of anthropological 
Survey of India, Ministry of Education. He is an Anthropologist and he has to 
undertake field studies in dilterent parts of India, mostly among the tribal com- 
munities. He has also stated that Munda tribal custom was an assignment given 
to him in 1965-68. He has further stated that as an Anthropoligist when one has 
to study custom, the marriage necessarily forms a very important part in the study. 
It also appears from his evidence that certain customs among the tribes arc static- 
but some are not static. He has stated that some custom change more rapidly, such 
as, custom ot dress as compared to the custom of rules of marriage and rules of 
Inheritance. Now as far as a Munda tribe is concerned, he has stated that he 
found sufficient variations in the marriage custom ot the tribal people and in the 
course of his research he found that a Munda could marry a non-Munda girl and 
this was even before 1954. He has stated that he could not say what was the 
manner of such marriage, but he could say as to what, would be social consequence 
of such marriage. According to him there are three kinds of unusual marriages, 
One is of the kind where a Munda boy marries a non-Munda. The second kind of 
unusual type of marriage is Parjati, that is, when a Munda girl marries a non- 
Munda boy and the girl goes out of the community. The third type of unusual 
marriage is where a Munda boy marries a non-Munda girl, whatsoever may be 
origin ot that non Munda girl. The social co lsequancc of the last type of unusual 
marriage Is Jati Bora. It is regarded as an offence against the whole community 
and normally the boy along with his family Is ostracised and in all social matters 
their participation it, tabooed. But he has at the same time also stated that there 
is a process by -which both the boy and his wife can be admitted into the com- 
munity. This process of admission into the community is known as N'tyar. That 
means "to bring in or take in”. But the offending party invites the members of 
the Parha, gives them a feast, a white goat is sacrificed, blood is smeared on 
the body of the boy and the girl along with Tarmolik and then they are allowed 
to sit along with the members of the community In the same pankti , and after 
this is over, they are formally considered as .the members of the community. 

28. It may be also mentioned here that it has also been urged ihat the marriage 
of Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh could not have also been approved because she was a 
divorcee and Jaipal Singh had also divorced his wife. It may be mentioned here 
that this position was not disputed that Jaipal Singh had been married and he 
had issues by that marriage, but there had been a divorce and Jahan Ara Jaipal 
Singh had also been married, she had obtained a divorce from her previous 
husband. P.W.4 stated that there are variations now in custom in which widower 
or widow can also marry. He has also stated that he has not come across any 
case in which divorcee non-Munda woman married to a Munda. But he lias 
also stated that where a non-Munda divorcee woman marries the Parha has socially 
accepted and sanctified it. 

24. I will now take up a discussion of those witnesses, who have deposed about 
the actual ceremony ot marriage of Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh. P.W. 2 is Sri 
Mahendra Singh, who is Deputy Secretary, Forest and Excise. ,, Patna. 

He is a Bbagina of Late Sri Jaipal Singh. He attended the marriage ceremony- 
There can he no doubt about his competency to depose about the marriage because 
being such a close relation naturally he must have attended the marriage. The 
only thing of course which can be said against him is that since he is related to 
Sri Jaipal Singh and the present petitioner, so he cannot be regarded as a disin- 
terested witness The testimony of a witness! n ' not be discarded only on this 
ground. Mow turning to his evidence, it appears that he attended the marriage 
and he has also stated that the marriage ceremony had been performed by Htramam 
Pahan Hiram au Pahan has also been examined on behalf of the petitioner and 
he is P.W. 10. P.W. 2 has stated that the marriage was performed according to 
Munda rites and after t,he performance of ‘he marriage there ' as' a feast at 
Munda rites and after the performance of the marriage there was a feast, at- 
as, of P.W. 2and other witnesses shows that there was at first a ceremony of 
marriage at Morahadi. one of the quarters of Ranchi where Late Sri Jaipal Singh 



Sec. J(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SKA VAN A 30. 1893 4245 


was residing any thereafter Jaipai Singh and the petitioner went to village Takra 
which is the ancestral village of Jaipai Singh and there also ceremonies were per- 
formed. This witness has stated about the ceremony at Morabadi and he has also 
stated that on the next day both his uncle and aunt were taken to n ’akra and he 
had also accompanied them. 

On arrival in village Takra they were taken to Sarana which is a place of 
worship of Mundas. His mother also came there and washed the feet of his uncle 
and Jahan Ara with water. After this there was the washing of their feet with 
the blood of a white cock. There was also an exchange of Tilak at Sarana and 
aftei this there were some other functions In the house and on the next day there 
was a sacrifice oi a goat. The meat of the goat was distributed as Prasad to ihc 
members ot all the tribes and there was also a Bh'j and feast with Handiya. This 
witness admitted that he has also married a non-Munda girl and he was married 
according to Munda custom rites as well as according to Hindu Law. There is 
one another comment also about the evidence < f this witness and It is this that 
naturally he would be supporting the case of the petitioner when he himself has 
also married a non-Munda girl. The fact that he has married a non-Munda girl 
and there are other instances also which are apparent from his evidence and it 
appeam that this practice is now becoming 'cmmon among the Mundas that a 
Munda is marrying an non-Munda and so it is quite possible that in view of such 
situation there has been a variation in accepting such marriage but of course cer- 
tain prescribed ceremonies are gone through and there is acceptance of the same 
by the elders. 

25. P.W. 5 is Puskar Saman. lie is a witness on the point that be also attended 
the marriage of the petitioner with Late Sri Jaipai Singh in May, 1954. lie has 
stated that this marriage took place at the house of Sri Jaipai Singh and at the 
time there weio several political leaders, some relations and persons of his village 
present including the Parlia Panchayat and Sri Jaipai Singh at that time made 
a declaration that he was going to marry Jahan Ara Jaipad Singh. The political 
leaders who were present at that time did not say anything, but the Parha 
Pawn... vat then moved away from that place irnl then they had a deliberation 
imcing themselves. After this they returned to tho place where they were all 
attimr and then they said that if Jaipai Singh warden to marry then lie would 
nave to marry according to their marriage custom and rites. On ihet day nothing 
had happened and on iho next day Jaipai Singh was married and the maniage 
ceremony - as performed by a Pahan of Village Takra. This witness has nlso 
given the details of tho ceremonies which took place in the Mandan which) had 
been specially prepared and then on the next day they went to village Takra This 
wit', m admit 'd In I 11 ., e. 'As-cxamination that the ceremonies about which he 
has stated were of exceptional type be,. _u r e tin' 1 was an exceptional type of 
marriage. It also appears from his evidence that rapid developments and 
assimilation of other cultures arc takmg p’ace among the Munch’? because according 
to the statements made by him, he belongs to Paneh Peregrin area of Chotanagpur 
and 00 per cent of the Mundas of this area have become Hinduaised and have 
adopte-i flincui custom!! retaining certain tribal customs, such as that their tribal 
Brahman performs the marriage rites. It was suggested to this witness in the 
cross-examination that the Pahans had given sanction to this marriage because 
of the great influence of Jaipai Singh, as he was on All India leader. This witness 
has denied this suggestion and has stated that it was not a fact that on account 

of the Influence of Jaipai Singh the Pahans harl given the .sanction because there 

had been other eases also where such sanctions had been given, It may be 
mentioned here that the suggestion made to this witness in tho cross-examination 

also shores that such a sanction had been given, but It was under Influence. The 

fa^t that such a sanction had been obtained by undue influence has also not been 
specifically pleaded in the written statement of the respondent. 

21!. P.W 6 is A. M. Patar, who is a Social Welfare Organiser of Tisco 
Community Development Department He had been invited on the occasion of 
the marriage ceremony of Late Sri Jaipai Singh and he attended the same. His 
evidence Is also to the effect that Parha Raja and Pahans had come and after 
deliberations they had said that if Jaipai Singh wented to marry Jahan Ara, then 
it shoul 1 be performed according to their customary r'tes. On the next day Jiramam 
Pahan performed the marriage. TTo has also given the details if the ceremonies 
which took place at that time. 

27 P. W. 7 is Lalit Munda and from his evidence it appears that he was serving 
under Late Sri Jaipai Singh as a personal servant and he has also stated about 
the performance of the marriage ceremoney 



2446 '1'HE GAZETTJi 01' INDIA: AUGUST 21, 19/ l/bAAVANA JO, 1893 


U’A«r i' — 


20. P. W. a is JuauW 3ing.ii Pahan. he _.s Parna ftaju 01 airee P«uiuui, viz., Takra 
1 arn^, Par ha and 3angna P a r n a . L 1 1 : (. u u b t ti 1 1 >’ he wa. an important member 
01 liie^ council of elders inclusive 01 village Tamra/ that is, the ancestral home of 
Gale Sri Jaipul Singh. He has also stale- j about the periormance at lviorabaui and 
thereat ter at lakra. He has also stated uiat the Saiiiaj oi the Ivianaa Tribe 
accepted tne marriage. It also ap^Cius lrom Ills evidence that there arc other 
instances also where a Munda had married a non-Munda. He has stated that 
he attended a marriage of a iVLunda who had married in Tatanagar witn a Ho Girl, 
and alter this sanction was given to such a marriage. It was suggested to this 
witness' also which he of course denied chat because of the influence of Jaipal Singh 
and oecauso he gave them drinks, they had agreed to his marriage. 

29. P. W, 9 is Khudi Singh Munda. He is a Kutumb (relation) of Jaipal Singh. 
He had been called ait the time of the marriage. He has also stated that tne Paruas 
ol the village had gone there. A reference was made tc the Parhas and the Parhas 
gave their permission. The marriage ceremony was performed by Hiraman Pahan 
according to Munda customary rites and that after the marriage at JViorabaai 
Jaipal Singh and .Tahan Ara left for village Takra on the following da.y and on 
arrival at village Takra all the five sisters of Jaipal Singh washed the feel of 
Jah«n Ara and Jaipal Singh. He has also stated about the ceremonies which 
took place. 


JO. P. W. 10 is Hiraman Pahan and he u a very important witness because 
evidence shows that he had performed the mariage ceremony, There can be 
no doubt that, he wus Pahan of the village, it may also be mentioned that 
a certificate granted by him had also been died along with the nomination paper. 
Now turning to the evidence of this witness, it appears that people of twelve Parhas 
were called to attend the marriage ceremony. They were asked if they would 
accept the marriage and take Juhan Ara as the woman of their community and 
they all event there and got them married and then ihey took them to Takra. He 
has stated that he was the Pahan who performed the rituals of the marriage and 
after the marriage they enjoyed the feast after killing goats at Takra. He has 
stated that this marriage was performed according to Munda custom and this 
marriage was accepted by the Munda Samaj. Ho has also admitted that a certificate 
bad been granted by him. 


ill. F. W. 11 is Odo Pahan. He wa a also one of the Pahan s, who had attended 
the marriage. In his examinatlon-in-chief he lated that Jahan Ara was married 
at Morabadi about three years or a bit more. 'Fills was obviously incorrect and 
it appears that he hast really no idea of time because when he was questioned 
as to what his age was, he stated that he could not give his own age, and when 
he was asked by Court if he could count, then he stated that he could count up to 
twenty, He also admitted that he had no idea of the month and the year. 
Considering the capacity of this witness in this respect, I think that this 
statement of his that the marriage took place three years 1 ago Is of no importance 
at all. 


32. The Iasi witness examined on behalf of the petitioner is Jahan Ara Jaipal 
Singh herself who Is P.W- 12. She has stated thal she had obtained a divorce by 
her previous husband and thereafter according to the Munda custom and with the 
sanction of Parahans and others she had been married to Sri Jaipal Singh. She 
has also described the ceremonies which had been performed. She has also stated 
that at the time of the marriage ceremony Sri Jaipal Singh’s mother embraced 
her and changed her name and the name which was given, to her was Lankasri, 
She has admitted that she had been married once before, but she had divorced her 
husband She has also stated that she had obtained a decree Nisi and this Nisi 
decree was made absolute on the 6th of May, 1954 and that is why she had been 
married after the 6th of May. 1954. The learned counsel for the respondent has 
submitted that no such decree had been filed and further that her evidence shows 
that negotiation for her marriage through the intervention of common friends had 
taken place long before the passing of the absolute decree and as such it was 
improbable that such a marriage could have taken place. In my opinion, there is 
nothing improbability of this if negotiation had been going on. The parties had 
to wait till the decree Nisi was made absolute which according to her evidence 
was made absolute on the 6th of May. 1954. The learned counsel for the respon- 
dent also submitted that nothing has been filed to show that. she , w ® s 
under the special Marriage Act of 1954 which is a special provision of fnainages 
of thG type but in my opinion, when the petitioner never asserted that she had 
been married under The Speciai Marriage Act. then there could have been no 
occasion or necessity of filing any document to show that there was any su. 
marriage under that Act 



3 0’0j THE GAZE 7 7 E OF INDi 


AUGUST 


' 1 • i 4/ 7 1 / S R/i V A i’ 


_ _ ^ 4 2 47 

witnek,e^aur?t Cr may 'be n stlted°he-l thif’r ?* u ateJ f bov ®> has examined six 
behaJi. who could say thai ^ ac^u-ft oa hi s^dv a a 'if been ™ ineri ca his 
irmal community s/ch a mLugtn 

accepted oy we community. iMow out ci tnu six witnes Is ev fliVt on t«h-1 r If 

ft i R bhJkI t w “ ^ 

f ° ' JllKOi • al uie relevant point <m time. His evidence is why atmu tho 
slage UUU Ci nomination paper. ot> his evidence need imi be uUcu,sed ai this 


»Uj Guiia. ^ He is a Iviunda and he is a President oi Bale Para 
He has si'iisj .hat h„- ‘-.n w Jaipai Singh who was a leadei 
ana aiso -mew fus eldest son ».< the time vaen he wa» ill years 

the marxiage 


3-1. R.W. 3 is r.u 
Rdfo of nis village. 

O*. vw . iV.l...' 

0i r *’i,e -■ ■_ .-laiemait v.as that Jaipai Singh a-, r.ot mam alter tc 
wiin tie ; : m hie ton of ins named Amac hingh. According to this witness 

no sec . id .j-.rnage too.-: place, xhis witness has msu stated that u a woman of 
her r wi accord goes and lives with a male person, then this kind of marriage is 
called and yc ruyone of his tribe brings and marries anyone without the 

consent of the parents, then this form is called Sagai. According to him, that 


r wi accord goes and lives with a male person, then this kind of marriage 
'Jhy.k''. aria ir myone of hxs tribe brings and marries anyone without 
sent of the parents, then this form 

Dhuku type of woman is not given any right under the Munda custom and if ’there 
are issues by the Dhuku type or marriage, then they are excommunicated from 

the tribe, but alter the death of the parents, the;, are taken in the tribe. This 

witness has Hated that he did not kno w what was the connection between Jahan 
Ara and Jaipai Singh, hut he could only say this much that during the election of 
1&G7 he used to see both of them moving about together. This witness himre'.t is 
a Christian ana he has stated that marriages amongst them are according to 
Cbrn-tian rites. His evidence also shows that he observes only Christian festivals 
so much so that Sarhul festival which is an important iestival of the Munda Tribe, 
but that is only observed by non-Christians. He was not present at the time 

of the marriage. He had also no occasion of going to Takra and since he was a 

Christian himself, so it is very difficult to say that he hgd intimate knowledge 
about tne prevalent customs of the Munda Trios 


35. fl W. J is Jura Bhagat, who is 1 also a Munda. He knew Jaipai Singh of 
the Munda Tribe. He has stated that in his community only unmarried girls and 
unmarried boys are married and no marriage is performed in Munda Tribe with 
a divorced woman or with a woman who has been left, by her husband and that 
no one of his tribe can marry a non-Munda woman or a non-Munda man. Accord- 
ing to him. the marriage custom is being observed in such an extreme form 
and with such rigidity that if the wife of acertain person of the tribe dies, then 
he cannot remarry and if he does remarry, then this woman has the status of a 
Dhuku woman only and that such a woman would be excommunicated from the 
tribe so much so that she will not be allowed to be buried in burial ground of the 
tribe. This witness also stated that persons oi his tribe cannot marry persons of 
another tribe. He also stated that if the Parha Raja and the Pahan of the Elka 
permit such a marriage, then that can be permitted, but only amongst the members 
of the same tribe. He has stated that he did not know of any instance where a 
Munda had married a non-Munda. 


36 RW 4 is Samuen Horo. He has stated that he knew Jaipai Singh and he 
had a son named Amar Singh, This fact has not been disputed that Jaipai Singh 
by h'= first wife did have a son. This witness has also stated that Jaipai Singh 
wa S' Munda and this witness is also a Munda. He has described the ceremonies 
which take place at the time of a marriage in Munda Tribe. He stated that in his 
tribe if a person is married and then his wife e ther leaves him or Dies then m 
that case there can be no remarriage of such a person. Further on he stated that 
if a person who has been already married and has wife has either left him or _ as 
died and then he wants to marry, then this form called Sagai form of marriage 
and if a woman is married and her husband either dead or has left her and she 
goes and fives, with another person then it is called Dhuku form of marriage. 
Futher on he stated that in his tribe a Munda cannot marry a non-Munda male 
or female. According to this witness, therefore, there can never be any sanction 
or approval for a marriage with a non-Munda. He was also a candidate for the 
election and it was suggested to him that ne had «me to depose falsely because 
Date Sri Jaipai Singh did not recommend mm for being given a ticket to contest 
the election. 


37. R.W 5 is Bir Singh Munda and his evidence was/ also to the same effect 
jl,, i ^ ru.n-TVTimfH woman <?oes and lives with & Munda then this will be o< d.,d 
Dhuku form of marriage and she will not get any right and status according to 
the Mumtelustom Tccording to tH- witness if any Munda marries a non-Munda. 



4248 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


then he has to be excommunicated from th e tribe. Jaipal Singh as I have already 
pointed admittedly was a Munda and he married a non-Mundy, so according to 
this witness be ought to have been excommunicated, but this witness has stated 
that he did not know If Jaipul Singh was excommunicated from the tribe. He 
also further or. stated that he knew only Inis much that Jaipal Singh was a 
Leader and he did not know anything further regarding him and that he had no 
occasion to go to village Takra, that is. the ancestral home of Jaipal Singh. 
According to this witness also the marriage is performed is a Mandap and certain 
ceremonies are celebrated and if the ceremonies are performed in this manner 
then the marriages would be deemed to have been accepted (by the tribe. 

38. The last witness examined on behalf of the respondent is N. E. Horo, that 
is, the respondent himself. He is R.W. 6. He has stated that Jaipal Singh had 
been married and his first marriage was with a lady who was probably the 

grand-daughter of late Sri W. C, Banerji, who was one of the founders of the 

Indian National Congress. As regards the petitioner this witness has stated that 
Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh was living with Jaipal Singh and it was said that he 
had married her. He also stated that Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh was not a Munda 
but she was a Tamil and that she did not have any right or status of a member 
of the Munda Tribe. He has also stated about the funeral ceremony of Jaipal 
Singh after his death. I will discuss this aspect of the matter separately. I have 
already referred to this fact that two of the witnesses viz., P.Ws. 1 and 2 (Sri 
Hembrom and Sri Mahendra Singh), who are admittedly Mundas have married 
non-Mundas. The respondent also in his evidence admitted that Hembrom had 
married an Uraon and the wife of Mahendra Singh is Arya Punjabi. This 

witness also stated that Jaipal Singh continued to be a Munda until his death. 

This will clearly show that he had not been excommunicated and as already re- 
ferred to the evidence of one of the witnesses for the respondent who stated that 
he did not know if Jaipal Singh had been excommunicated. If Jaipal Singh 
had been excommunicated because of his marrying a non-Munda, then certainly 
it would have been a matter of great importance and of notoriety. There would 
have been therefore, evidence on behalf of the respondent in support of the fact 
that he was excommunicated, but there was no such evidence and the state- 
ments made by the respondent himself rather show that he had not been ex- 
communicated, This is also a circumstance worthy of consideration. I may also 
in this connection refer to the answer given by the respondent towards the con- 
cluding portion of his evidence, where he has stated that now a days it is per- 
missible for a male Munda to marry a non-Munda female, but she will not be 
accepted as a member of. the Munda tribe and that if a female Munda marries 
a male non-Munda, then in that, case the female will be excommunicated from 
the Tribe and the male cannot be taken as a member of the Tribe. This also 
supports the fact that there has been some change since it has become permissi- 
ble for a male Munda to marry a non-Munda, But according to this witness, she 
will not be accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe. It also appears from the 
evidence of the respondent that the custom among the Mundas is changing and 
it is dynamic and not static. It also appears that there are members of the Tribe 
who can be regarded as Hinduaised Mundas or Christianised Mundas. 


39. The evidence which I have discussed above, therefore, would show that 
on the one hand there was an assertion by the petitioner herself and her wit- 
nesses that the marriage of the petitioner was performed after the observance 
of all the formalities and ceremonies and with the consent and the approval of 
the tribal leaders and that she was accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe. 
The evidence on behalf of the respondent is, on the other hand, that no such 
permission can be accorded and in no case can a non-Munda woman marrying a 
Munda become a member of the Munda Tribe, It also appears from the evidence 
that there have been many instances of such marriages where a Munda male has 
married non-Munda female and this is evident from the evidence of P.W.s. 1, 2, 
3, 8 and the evidence of R.W. 0. the respondent himself to which I have referred 
above. 

40. The petitioner also led evidence on the point that late Sri Jaipal Singh 
died in Delhi and then his dead body was brought to Ranchi by plane and there- 
after the dead body was taken to his ancestral home in village Takra where the 
funeral rites were performed according to the Munda custom and he was hurried 
in the Munda burial ground. A number of witnesses have been examined on 
this point on behalf of the petitioner, such as, the petitioner herself who is P.W. 
12 and others, viz., P.W.s. 2, 8, 8. 9 and 10 who attended the funeral ceremony 
The respondent, on the other hand, led evidence to the effect that the dead body 
was taken to village Takra, but the funeral rites were performed according to 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4249 


the Christian faith and that the body was taken to the Church and then the 
burial was in the church cemetry in village Takra, But on a consideration of the 
evidence and the circumstances which emanate from their evidence, I am inclin- 
ed to believe that the petitioner's case in this respect was correct that the funeral 
rites were according to the Munda customs. In my opinion, the question whe- 
ther the funeral rites were performed according to the Munda custom or not is 
also not very important when it is admitted that Jaipal Singh was a Munda 
until his death and the question which has to be determined is whether the 
petitioner by virtue of her marriage has become a member of the Munda Tribe 
or not and this question would not be materially affected as to how the funeral 
rites took place. 


41, Now besides the oral evidence which I have discussed above, reliance has 
been placed on several books of scholars who had studied and made a research 
on this subject. One of the important books in this connection is called "The 
Mundas and their Country" by Sarat Chandra Roy. It may be mentioned here 
that the publication of this book was in 1912. So naturally enough this book 
cannot be an authority as to what the present custom amongst Mundas was 
particularly in the year 1954 when this marriage took place. The Returning 
Officer has also referred to this book particularly to page 403 of this book which 
is a Chapter called "The Tribal Organisation and its Development into Social and 
Political Organisation". It has been stated in this book that descent came to be 
traced through the father and no longer, as before through the mother. The 
Returning Officer relied on the observation in this book to show that the Munda 
Society was a Patriarchal Society and one becomes a member of the Munda 
Tribe by virtue of birth and one cannot become a member of the Tribe on 
account of the marriage with a Munda. I may in this connection refer here to 
other relevant portions and observation of this book. At page 400 of this book 
it has been stated that the Munda tribe is divided into a large number of ex- 
ogamous groups called kills and according to Mimda tradition, all the members 
of the same kill are descended from one common ancestor. Mr. Roy has also 
stated in his book — 

"Though exogamous as regards the kilis, the Mundas arc endogamous so 
far as other tribes are concerned. Thus, there can now 'be no valid 
marriage, according to Munda custom, between a Munda and the 
member of any other Kolarian tribe, such as the Santals, the 
Rharias, the Aasurs, or the Eirhors.” 


This observation no doubt shows that according to the strict Munda custom pre- 
valent at the time when the author wrote this book a marriage with a non-Munda 
was not at ad. permissible and it could not be regarded as a valid marriage. J 
may also in this connection refer here to the observation at page 436 of this book 
where the author has stated that in the matter of marriage, as in several other 
matters, the Mundas appear to have modified some of their ancient customs and 
practices in imitation of those of their Hindu neighbours of olden limes. The 
author has also given an illustration that early marriages were quite infrequent 
amongst well-to-do Mundas, but the days are still remembered when no young 
Munda could marry before he was able to construct a plough with his own hands 
nor would a Munda girl be given away in marriage before she could, with her 
own hands, weave mats with palm-leaves and spin cotton. It also appears from 
the research which has been made by the author that in modern days, the selec- 
tion is ordinarily made for the boy as well as for the girl by the father or other 
guardian, The boy’s approval of the guardian’s selection is, however, frequently 
sought for, end generally obtained. The learned counsel for the respondent has 
also vehemently argued particularly on the basis of the evidence which has been 
adduced tav him that the ‘Arandi’ was a form of marriage and the .marriage of 
Munda with a non-Munda could not be in accordance with any of the prescribed 
form of marriage. It appears from page 444 of this book that ‘Arandi’ is a word 
which denotes the marriage ceremony itself and several forms of marriages have 
been given in this book, 

42. The next book to which I will refer is also a very authoritative book 
called ‘Tribes and Castes of Bengal’ by H. H. Rlsely, He was a member of the 
Indian Civil Service and Volume II of this book is Ethnographic Glossary. This 
is also a very old publication which is of the year 1891 and so the facts stated 
in this book can be of help in showing as to what was the state of affairs at the 
time, It appears from this book and this was also an undisputed position that 
very severe restrictions are imposed amongst the Mundas os far as marriage in 
their own kills or sect is concerned. Risely in his hook at page 102 has devoted 



4250 THb GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Purr 11— 


a topic on the question of marriage amongst the Mundas. He lias stated as 
follows:— 

“Traces still survive among the Mundas of a form of marriage, resembling 
the Santuli nir boiok. It is called dhuko era, meaning a bride who 
has entered the household of her own accord. The children of a 
woman tbiv, married ei til to have an inferior status m inspect ol 
their rights to inherit the landed property of their father.’’ 

It appears from thi* 'hat the Dhuko form of marriage was also being tolerated 
and the children of such a marriage were given an inferior status in respect of 
their rights to mherit the landed properly He has also given a very interesting 
illustration. It appears that late Bubu Rakhal Das Haidar, Manager of the 
Maharaja of Chotunagpur, gave an iilustintion to the author of this book and 
this was of the case of a Munda of one of the villages having died leaving an 
only son 'by a dhuko era wife. The question arose whether this son had a right 
to succeed. Under the orders of Colonel Dahon’s a number of headmen of 
villages were called together, and their opinions were taken, but no decided re- 
sults, however, could be arrived at. Some thought that the son should get the 
whole property. Others propoaed to exclude him altogether, and a third party 
considered him entitled to maintenance, and eventually the question was com- 
promised by admitting Hie son’s right to one-fourth of the land and the whole of 
the person T property. The author of this book has, therefore, observed— “the case 
is a curious comment on the uncertainty of tribal custom”. This clearly shows 
that the author after research and study came to the conclusion that there was 
an element of uncertainty in the Munda tribal custom because it was variable 
and thus it can be said that it was not static, but dynamic and liable to changes 
by impact and assimilation of different cultures and surroundings. It also ap- 
pears that the author after studying came to the conclusion that the widows also 
may marry again by rituals known as Sagai in which sindurdan is performed 
with the left hand. It also appears that divorce was also allowed at the in- 
stance of either party, and divorced women were permitted to remarry. I have 
referred to these facts only with a view to show that there are changes which 
are taking place in the Munda custom. 

43. Learned counsel for the respondent has relied on certain passages from a 
book called ‘Encyclopaedia Mundarlca’ by Rev. John Hoffmann, S.J. In Volume 
3 (at) at page 127 onwards under the word "angir Nag” Illustrations have been 
given how punishments were imposed by the society in cases of moral transgres- 
sions. These all show that punishments are imposed, but the facts stated therein 
would not by themselves show or prove that what was not permissible by the 
Munda customs at that time Is still not permissible. 

44. I may also in this connection refer here the Volume 15 of the Encyclo- 
paedia Britannlca (1965) in which there is a chapter about the Mundas at page 
991. It has been stated there thus — 

“At present the process of Munda assimilation to the larger Indian society, 
facilitated by improved communications and the introduction of a for- 
mal system of education under the British, Is being accelerated under 
the Independent government of India, The Munda speaking peoples, 
with the other Indian tribal groups, are being encouraged to adopt 
new customs and to become fully participating members of Indian 
society." 

I may also refer here in this case to the Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics by 
James Hastings, Volume IX, pages 1, 2 and 3 where also it has been stated as to 
how the Munaa custom*-* etc. are being changed with the Impact of the influence of 
the Christianity. 

45. In a book on the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act (Act VI of 1906), published 
by J. Reid, I.C.S., Settlement Officer of Chota Nagpur in 1910, there is a chapter 
in this book called ‘the Special Memorandum on the land system of Munda 
Country’ by the Rev. Father J, Hoffmanin S,J. It appears from this article in 
this book that “the pure Mundari Khuntkatti village usually contains three ele- 
ments, namely, (a) the Khuntkattidars, (b) the par j as or raiyats, and (c) the 
subsidiary castes”. The khuntkattidars are descendants in the male line of the 
original founders of the village. As such thev are all akin, of equal status and 
differing in wealth mainly owning to differences in size of the families of their 
ancestors. The Mundari race is made up of separate clans or septs, called kills, 
for which in some parts of Hindi equivalent word is gotra. There is a strict pro- 
hibition that the members of one kili on no account partake of the sacrifices 
offered by those of a different kili. There is also an observation to the effect of 
marriage transfers the wife from her paternal kili, to the kili of her husband. 
It appears, therefore, that according the Munda conception also by legal fiction 
of wife becomes a member of the kili of her husband. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4251 


4S. Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied on a Division Bench 
decision of the Assam High Court in the case of Wilson Reade versus C. S. Booth 
and others, reported in A.I.R. 1958 Assam, page 128. This was also in connection 
with an election and the short facts of that case were that the appellant was the 
nominee of the political party called the Eastern India Tribunal Union. The 
security of the nomination papers was held and the nomination paper of the 
appellant was rejected on the ground that the appellant was an Anglo-Indian 
within the meaning of the word as defined in Article 366(B) of the 
Constitution and was thus a member of the scheduled tribe and was 
not entitled to be nominated as a candidate for the reserved seat 
for the members of the tribe. It may also be mentioned here that the father of 
the appellant was an European and he had married a Khasi and a question arose 
for consideration whether the appellant would be considered as a member of the 
Khasi tribe. It was held in that case the question a person can be regarded a 
member of the Khasi tribe under the Constitution is a question of fact depend- 
ing upon the evidence produced in the case and it will have to be inferred from 
the totality of circumstances and that the question of a person’s domicile is by 
itself not enough to confer any particular status on him, but it is certainly an 
element in determining a fact as to whether he was regarded as a member of the 
Khasi tribe or not. It was also further held that the political status of an indi- 
vidual and what electoral rights he possesses have no doubt to be determined 
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution; but it cannot be assumed 
that when the Constitution and the order issued under the provisions of the 
Constitution uses the word “Khasi tribe’, it only means a Khasi of pure blood. 
The right to seek election for the reserved seat has been conferred on a member 
of the Khasi tribe. The question whether an individual who is seeking election 
for the reserved seat is or is not a member of the Khasi tribe will have to be 
determined by the courts when they are required to adjudicate upon that question 
and in the absence of any definition of the word “Khasi tribe’ in the Constitution 
or in the law, the test which will determine the membership of that individual 
will not be only the purity of blood, but his own conduct is follow- 

ing the customs and the way of life of the tribe and the way in which he was 
treated by the community and the practice amongst the tribal people in the matter 
of dealing with persons whose mother was a Khasi and father was a European. 

47. As regards the constitutional safeguards it was held that the whole object 
of reserving a seat for the Khasi tribe is to afford the community as a whole a 
right of representation and to give the community as a whole a protection and, 
therefore, the question of the membership of a particular individual of that com- 
munity cannot be considered divorced from the very object of the legislation. 
The conduct of the community which has been given a right of special repre- 
sentation, the manner and how the community regarded the particular individual 
and whether the community as a whole intended to take the individual within 
its fold are all matters which will he relevant for consideration of the question as 
to whether within the meaning of the Constitution, the person could or could not 
be regarded as a member of tne Khasi clan. It may also be mentioned here that 
it was a matriarchal tribe and that is why the membership has been considered 
form the point whether the mother was a Khasi or not. The facts of that case 
are certainly distinguishable from the facts in the present case because there 
the appellant claimed to be a Khasi toy virtue of birth and it was held that 
unless the definition be otherwise, the word ‘Khasi tribe’ docs not mean purity 
of blood. But here in this case the right has not been claimed by virtue of 
birth, but by virtue of marriage because the petitioner claims firstly that she 
was married to a Munda and secondly that the marriage was in such form and 
with such sanction and approved that she has become a member of the Munda 
Tribe. 

48- The decision of the Assam High Court a forementioned does show that 
the Hon’ble Judges who decided that case were also of the view that the word 
'Khasi tribe’ or for the matter of that in this particular case Munda Tribe has 
not to be given that narrow and restricted scope and the question whether a 
particular person is a member of the tribe or not is a question of fact which hag 
to be decided on the totality of the circumstances, I may in this connection 
again refer here to the Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order, 1950 promulgated 
in 1950 by the President of India which I have already quoted in the earlier 
part of my judgment. In paragraph 2 of this Order the important words to 
be quoted are— 

"The tribes or tribal communities, or parts of or groups within tribes 
or tribal communities, spefleied in Parts I to XII to the Schedule. , . 

In Article 342 of the Constitution the exact words used are “the tribes or 
tribal communities or parts of or groups within tribes or tribal communities’. 
No definition or the word ‘tribal’ has been given either in the Order or in the 



4252 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 2], 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


Constitution and I think the Parliament in its wisdom has rightly used these 
•words and not only tribes. The words which have been clearly show that a 
wide import and meaning have to be given to these words. There was also a 
contention that by declaration of any person other than who has been bom a 
Munda as a member of the tribe would be a violation of the safeguard for the 
reservation of a seat as given under Article 330 of the Constitution, oat .. do 
not think that this contention seems to be correct. The question whicn has to 
be decided is whether a particular persop is a member of the particular Scheduled 
Castes/Scheduled Tribe or not and if he or she is then naturally his or her candi- 
dature will be advancement of the objective given in Article 330 of the Consti- 
tution. 

49. On a survey of the entire evidence and th e circumstances of the case, II 
see no reason to discredit the evidence which has been led on behalf of the peti- 
tioner firstly that she was married according to the Munda custom and that it 
was with approval and sanction of the tribe whereby she was accepted as a mem- 
ber of the Munda Tribe. True, it is that she cannot claim to be a mem be 1 of 
the Munda Tribe by virtue of birth, but as she has been accepted as a member 
of the Munda Tribe on account of her marriage in such form naturally it follows 
that by legal fiction such as the domicile of the husband by operation of law 
in some cases governs the domicile of the wife, so on this analogy the tribe 
to which the husband belongs would be the tribe to which she would be deemed 
to belong provided the marriage was after due observance of formalities and 
after obtaining the sanction of the elders or the tribe as was done in this case. 

60. The Returning Officer, as pointed above; rejected the nomination papers 
for the ground of what I have stated above, But it may be mentioned that 
naturally the evidence which has been led and the materials which have beert 
placed on record were certainly not available to the Returning' Officer and as such 
he gave decision on the materials which were available to him Learned counsel 
for the petitioner has also attacked the order of the Returning Officer on two 
grounds. Firstly, that it was in excess of the powers conferred on him under 
section 36 of the Act. Section 33 of the Act lays down that the nomination papers 
should be filed within the prescribed time, Sub-section (2) of this Section lays 
down that in a Constituency where any seat is reserved, a candidate shall not 
be deemed to be qualified to toe chosen to fill that seat unless his nomination 
paper contained a declaration by him specifying the particular caste or tribe of 
which he is a member and the area in relation to which that caste or tribe is 
a Scheduled Caste or, as the case may be, a Scheduled Tribe of the State. I 
have already pointed above that a declaration as contemplated by this aforesaid 
provision had also been filed along with the nomination paper. It has been 
urged by the learned counsel for the petitioner that as there was a declaration 
by the petitioner, so that declaration should have been accepted and the Return- 
ing Officer acted in excess or beyond his T '-iw«vr, ^ ming into the question 
whether the petitioner was a member of the Munda Tribe or not, In my opinion, 
this contention is not wholly correct in view of the further faots which I will be 
presently stating, 

51. I may now refer here to Section 36 of the Act which empowers the Return- 
ing Officer to scrutinize the nomination papers. Sub-section (2) of Section 36 
of the Act and its clauses are relevant for the purpose of the matter in con- 
sideration at this stage and it runs thus — 

“36(2) The returning officer shall then examine the nomination papers and 
shall decide all objections which may be made to any nomination 
aoy may, c ! lhcr on such objection or on his own motion, after such 
summary inquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, reject any nomina- 
tion on any of the following grounds: — 

(a) that on the fixed for the scrutiny of nominations the candidate 

either is not qualified or is disqualified for being chosen to fill the 
seat under any of the following provisions that may be applicable, 
namely: — 

Articles 84. 102, 173 and 191, 

Part II of this Act, and sections 4 and 14 of the Government of TJrron 
Territories Act, 1963 or 20 of 1963. 

(b) that there has been a failure to comply with any of the provisions of 

section 33 or section 34; or 

(c) that the signature of the candidate or the proposer on the nomina- 

t- ::i paper is net genuine,” 

The aforesaid provision enjoins upon the Returning Officer that he shall 
examine the nomination papers and decide all objections which may be 



Sec. 3(ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1 97 J /SR A VAN A 20, ! S93 4253 


made t:o any nomination. It further empowers him that he may either on such 
objection or on his own motion, after such summary inquiry, if any as he thinks 
.necessary, leject any nomination paper c.i one oi ihe ioliowinc; grounds meiuioned 
r\v >' a } ji 1 *' 1 ? 1 A rlie Returning Officer can embark on a summary inquiry and 
I think that the lat.er pari gj pub -auction (2) of Section 36 of the Act particularly 
by the use of the word ‘may’ there gives a dlscretio/i to the Returning Officer to 
hold a summary inquiry. This opinion of mine Ends also strength from the words 
as he thinks necessary, the inquiiy has arso to be of a very summary nature 
fccwuja proviso to sub-section (5 ) of Section ;>0 Jays down that in case an objec- 
tion i" raised by the returning officer or is made by any other person the candidate 
concerned nay be allowed time to rebut It not later than the next day but one 
following the date fixed for scrutiny, and the returning officer shall record hi;.' de- 
c'sion on the date to which the proceedings have been adjourned. This clearly 
shows that the adjournment giving an opportunity for adducing rebuttal evidence 
can only be to the next uay and not furher. These provisions are naturally very 
essential because the entile ejection programme has to be carried on according to 
the schedule. It has been contended by the learned counsel for the petitioner that no 
inquiry was made by the Returning Officer and that he did not give any opportunity 
to the petitioner to adduce evidence. 1 may refer here in this connection to the 
evidence of the Returning Officer, who was examined as R.W.I. and also to his or- 
rh-r which is an annex mo to the petition. A perusal of his evidence as well as his 
order shows that he did hear both the parties so much so that the petitioner was 
also represented through a counsel, but as no power was made for time for adduc- 
ing evidence, so on the materials on record before him the Returning Ollier 
his decision which was adverse to the petitioner hr cause he rejected the nomination 
paper. I see no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the Returning Officer, who is 
a responsible officer of the Government and particularly when reading his order it 
chpeorp that nobody had asked for time. I am. therefore, of the view that at that 
no prayer had been made for time for adducing further evidence. 


52. It has also been urged on behalf of the petitioner that the rejection of the 
nomination paper could only be under one of the grounds, as mentioned in clauses 
(a), (b) and (c) of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. already quoted above 

and as none of these grounds apply, so the Returning Cft cer acted beyond his 

powers in rejecting the nomination paper. Clause (a) lays down that a nomination 
paper would be rejected jf the perjon concerned, who has filed a nomination paper 
is ither not qualified or disqualified under Article 84, 102, 173 and 191 of the 
Constitution. I need not refer to the specific provisions of these Articles because 
admittedly these Articles did not apply and the rejection has not been on any of 
these grounds, but the latter part of clause (a) is also very important because it 
lays down “Part II of the Act, and sections 4 and 14 of the Government of Union 

Territories Act, 1963”. We are not concerned here with the Government of Union 

Territories Act, 1902, but certainly Part II of the Act would be applicable. Part 
II of the Act, that is from section 3 onwards deals with > 'edifications and disquali- 
fications for membership of Parliament and section 5 onwards order the same Part 
deals with the qualifications for membership of State Legislatures. Section 4 is 
very important for the purpose of the matter under consideration because it lays 
down that a person shall not be qualified to be chosen to fill a seat In the House of 
the People other than the seat allotted to the Part B of tribal areas and clause (b) 
of this section lays down that in the case of a seat reserved for tht Scheduled Tribes 
in any Stale other than those in the autonomous districts of Assam, he shall not be 
qualified unless he is a member of any of Scheduled Tribes, whether of that State 
or of p„t/ other State excluding the t ribs?) areas of Assam, and is en elector for 
ao.y Parliamentary constituency. 


53 Now reading clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 36 (don g with clause 
(b) of Section 4 of the Act, In my opinion, although there may be a declaration 
filed by the person filing the nomination paper, but still if there is some contro- 
versy raised, then It will be within the competence of the Returning Officer to see 
whether there was a compliance of clause (b) of Section 4 of the Act. In this view 
of the matter, I am of opinion, that the Returning Officer quite rightly entered into 
a consideration of the question whether the petitioner was a member of the 
Munde Tribe specially when objections had been raised, the position 
al^o was not clear because it was not a case whether the petitioner claimed 
to” be a member of the Trthe by virtue of birth, but by virtue of marriage. Now 
as far as clause (b) and (c) of sub-section 2 of section 36 of the Act are concerned 
these also are not relevant for the purpose of the matter under consideration. In 
this view of the matter, I am of opinion that the Returning Officer did not act m 
excess of his power and he had the jurisdiction to go into the limited question 
whether the candidate was qualified under clause (b) of Section 4 of the Act. 



4254 THE ga ZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT- 


54. The third and last point in this connection wr. cb ha^ beo‘ uiged is that even 
if the Returning Officer had such a jurisdiction, then such power conferred on 
him was violative of Article 14, 372 and 330 of the Constitution. The argument in 
this respect Is that a rejection of a nomination paper on Ihe ground that a part- 
icular candidate was or was not a member of a Scheduled Tribe would mean that 
there was a decision on the question of a candidate’s civil right, status, such as, 
right of inheritance etc., and, therefore, it would not be only violative of some of 
the Articles of the Constitution, but violative of the c mmon law, such as, the 
rights contained in other acts and the Code of Civil Procedure. In my opinion, 
this contention does not seem to be correct because when the Returning Officer 
examines or decides ihe question whether a candidate is a member of a Scheduled 
Tribe or not., the jurisdiction exercised by him is for a very strict and limited 
purpose and this would not mean that he was deciding the question that the part- 
icular candidate had the right of inheritance, right of property etc, 

55. On a consideration of all these facts. I am of opinion that the order of the 
Returning Officer was not without jurisdiction or in excess of power conferred on 
him under section 30 of the Act and it would be deemed to be only for the limited 
purpose as mentioned above. 1 may also mention here that when such a question 
arises for consideration in an election case, such as, the present one, the decision 
by a tribunal would be also for the limited purpose and it would not mean con- 
ferring p-owers of inheritance etc. because that has to be decided by the other 
competent courts of the country. I have already observed above that the decision 
of the Returning Officer was obviously on the materials placed ibefore him and as 
the materials which have been placed here had not been placed before the Return- 
ing Officer, so he could not come to this conclusion but only to the conclusion 
which he gave in his detailed order. Now in view of the facts and the circums- 
tances of the case here, it has to be held that the order of rejection of the nomina- 
tion papers filed by the petitioner was improper. All these issues are, therefore, 
decided accordingly. 

56. Issue f Vo. 7.- — Now the last question which arises for consideration is as to 
what relief the petitioner is entitled. I have already mentioned above that there 
has been a dissolution of the Lok Sabha, so the petitioner can be entitled only to a 
limited relief which is to the effect that her nomination papers had been improper- 
ly rejected. This issue also thus is decided accordingly. 

57. In the result, the election petition is allowed on the lines as indicated above. 
In the circumstances of the case, no order for costs is made. 

(Sd.) S. Wasiuddin 

Patna High Court: 

The 21st of May, 1971. 


(Sd.) Deputy Registrar, 

Patna pigh Court. 
[No. 82/BE/2/707 
By Order, 

ROSHAN LAL, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 
(Department of Mines) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 

S.O. 3032. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in 
the late Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Depart- 
ment of Mines and Metals! No. S.O. 2401 dated 4th July, 1970, under Sub-section 
(11 of section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition & Development) Act, 
1957 (20 of 1957). the Central Government gave notice of its intention to pros- 
pect for coal in 300.00 acres (approximately) or 129.00 hectares (approximately) 
of the lands in the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification - 

And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal Is obtainable In 
the said lands; 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 2J, I971/SRAV r ANA .’0, I&93 ^>5 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (T> of 
section 7 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 
(20 of 1957), the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to 
acquire: — 

(a) the lands measuring 10.00 acres (approximately) o r 4.05 hectares 

(approximately) described in Schedule ‘A’ appended hereto and 

(b) the rights of mine, quarry, bore, dig and search for, win, work and 

carry away minerals in the lands measuring 310.00 acres (approxi- 
mately) or 126.55 hectares (approximately) described in Schedule 
‘B’ appended hereto. 

Note 1. The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected 
in the office of the Collector, Dhenkanal, Orissa or in the office of the Coal Con- 
troller, I, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal 
Development Corporation Limited (Revenue Section!, Darbhanga House, Ranchi, 
Bihar, 

Note 2. Attention is hereby invited to the provisions in Section 8 of the 
Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1967, which provides 
as follows : — 

“8(1) Any person Interested in any land in respect of which a notification 
under section 7 has been issued may, within thirty days of the issue 
of the notification, object to the acquisition of the whole or any 
part of the land or of any rights in or over such land. 

Explanation:— It shall not be an objection within the meaning of this section 
Tor any person to say that he himself desires to undertake mining operations in 
the land for the production of coal and that such operations should not be under- 
taken by the Central Government or by any other person: — 

(2) Every objection Under sub-scction (1) shall be made to the competent 

authority In writing, and the competent authority shall give the 
objector an opportunity of being beard either in person or by a 
legal practitioner and shall, after hearing all such objections and 
after making such further enquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, 
submit the case for the decision of the Central Government together 
with the record Qf the proceedings held by him and a report con- 
taining his recommendations on the objections, 

(3) For the purposes of this section, a person shall be deemed to be 

interested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in 
compensation if the land or any rights in or over such land were 
acquired under this Act.” 

Note 3. The Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta, has been 
appointed by the Central Government as the competent authority under the Act. 

Schedule ‘A’ 

Df.ilbera East—Ext/ i.Drg. No, Rev 37/71, Dated 17-5-1971, 

Ta'.cher Coalfields ( Orissa ) (Showing lands to be acquired ). 

SUB-BLOCK I 


‘All rights' 


Serial Village Thana or Police District Area Remarks 

number Station 


1 t Chauliakuta 

2 Nizigarh (Talcher Town) 


Talcher (Town) Dhenkanal Part 

Scdar. 

35 33 


Total Area 10 ■ 00 Acres (Approximately) 

or:— 4 '05 Hectares (Approximately), 



4256 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


Plot nurrter to be acquired in village Chauliakuta : — 

44®, 45®, 46®, 47®, 54®, & Toad (P), 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nizigarh (Talcher Town ) 

(1, 2 & 3 Hoad (Part), 69®, 71®, 72®, 73(P), 75®, 76®, 77®, 79®, 8o(P), 82®, 
1425(F). 1426®, I427(P). 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION ■ 

E — F — G — H — Lines pass through plot number : Road of Chauliakuta, (1 ,2 & 3 Road), 71, 69 
72, 73) 75, 76) 77, 82, 79, 80, 1427 in village Nlzigarh (Talcher Town) and meet 
at point ‘H'. 

H — I Line passes through plot numbers 1427, 1426 and 1425 in village Nizigarh (Talcher 

Town) and meets at point ‘I’. 

I — J Line passes along the southern bound' ry of plot numbers 1425, 82,77, along 

southern boundary and through plot No. 76, through plot numbers 75, 73, 72 
(r, 2 & 3 Road), In village Nizigarh (Talcher Town) and through plot numbers 
46, 47 and 54 in village Chauliakuta and meets at point 1 J*. 

J — E Lime passes through plot numbers 54, 47, 44 & 45 (i.e. along the part common 

boundary of Deulbera Colliery lease boundary) in village Chauliakuta and meets 
at Point ‘E’. 


Schedule ‘B’ 

SUB-BLOCK II 

Drg. No. Rev/37/7i Dated 17-5-71. 


(Showing lands where rights to mine, quarry, 
bore, dig and search for, win, work and carry 
away minerals arc to be acquired). 

Mining rights 


Serial Village Thana or Police District Area Remarks 

number Station. 


r Nizigarh (Talcher Town) . Talcher (Town) Dhenkanal 

Sadar. 

2 Chauliakuta . , . ,, 

3 Nizigarhjamme „ „ 

4 Rcmua . . . , „ „ 


Part. 


25 




Total area : 3 10 00 Acres (Approximately) 

or: 125 '55 Hectares (Approximately) 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Chauliakuta : 

46®, 47 (P)j 6j(p), 6 9 (P), 70(P) & 71 to 76. 

Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nizigarhjamme: 

95(P), 96(F), 990?), 100, 101, 102(P), I03(P), I04(P), 105 to 113, II4(P), 115 to 123, I24(P), 
I7°(P), 171, 172, 1 73 (P)j i74(P) .nd I75(P). 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Remua: 

297 (P), 298®, 3°o(P), 301 (P), 302, 303, 304(P), 305, 3o6(P), 3°7(P), & 3°8(P). 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town): 

(1,2 and 3, Road (P), 57 (P), 59®, 60®, 6i(P), [62, 63, 6 4 (P), 65, 66, 67, [68, 69®, , 70 
7I(P), ?2(P), 73(P), 74, 75(F)) 76®, 77®, 78, '9®, 8 c (P), 81, to®, 83 to 117, U8® 
n 9 toi26, I27(P), 128(F), I2 9 (p), 130(F), 131 to 364, 365®, 366(F), 367 to 415, 416® 
4i7(P), 418CP), 419(F), 42°(P), 42i(P), 422(P), 423 (P), 424, 425, 426(F), 427®, 428® 
429 P), 430(F), 456(F), 457(F), 463(P), 468(F), 477(F), 473®, 47',®, 478®, 482®, 483®, 
484(F), 487®, 488, 489,490, 491,412, 493, 454®, 495(F), 496, 497, 498, 499,50o(P), 501® 
502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 5°7(P),[5°8 to 552, 553®, 554(F), 555, 556, 557, 558, 559(P) 



Ste. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA SO, 1893 4257 


to 828 8wpfiL?^ ( o ’ 571, 573 (f), 575 (P), 57 G 577 (F), 582 (P), 821(F) 82 2 (P), 823 

1062TM x (P)l 8 33 , 834(F), 835(F), 836, S37, 838(F), 840(F), 1060(F), iofiifP), 

^ mSH' 73 3 !< 5 1074 S’ I073(P ^ 10 7 6 , I0 77 (P), 1078 to 1103, 1104(F) 1105, no6(p), 
Iil 5 (P), 1116 (F), XI26(P), 1127(F), II 92 (P), II 93 (P), 1194 (F), 
JLo 6 P 1 9 f^WD? 3 4 (P), 1209 (F), 1210 (F), I2II(P), I2l8(P), 1219 to 1226, 1227(F), I228(P), 
“ 3 °®’ 12 3 I(P), 1232(F), 1233(F), 1243(F), 1244(F), 1246(F), 1248(F), 1251(F), 1252(F), 
I i 6o(P {; I 263 (P 3 > 1 2 64(F), 2267(F), 1268(F), j2M(j ), 1272 (F), 1275 (F), 
“Z 9 <F) 1281(F), 1282, 1283(F), 1284 to 1424, 1425(F), 1426(F), 1427(F), 1428 to 1483, 
I502(PW<05 m Vt 9 ra’ 1491 I492 9 *\ 1494 (F), 1496(F), 1497 (F), 1498 (F), 1499 , 1500 , 1501(F), 

IQSzTT JoK rnQ’/ni 19 ^’ ,^f 0(P)l I52l(P) ’ 1 522(F), 1523(F), I 524 (P), 1525(F), IJ 46 (P). 
xnnfiVPV 2 /oV‘ 198 1 987 (P), 1990(F), 1991(F), 1992 to 2000, 200l(P), 2002(F), 2003(F), 

2^9?)’ 2 oSp) t 2 o» 3(P) 'f ^$ P)i 2 ? r ? (P)j 20l6(P)l 2037(n 2046(PX 2 ° 47(P) ‘ 2048 H 

2051 /° 2081 ' 2082 (P), 2083(F), 2084(P), 2085 to 2254, 2255(F), 2216(F), 
2403(F)* 229I £; )> 22 92(P), 2293(F), 22 9 6(P), 2297(F), 2298(F), 2 4 o2(P), 

246 Sfry t 4 2458, 2459(P), 2460(F), 2461 to 2466, 2467(F), 

2 1k6T) 2 /st In 2 Jr 7 ^ C wp^ 474CP) A,? 479(P ^, 248o(P) ’ 2 98 i(P), 2482(F), 2483, 2384, 2485(F), 
sS * ^ 7 3 ^ 24 ^ P > 2 ^)’ 2 ^ { ^S 02 to 3 c| 4 , 3085(d ) - ~ ^ 


3oor(pV 77^;U'7 ; 7 / V7F 270,^7,2502 103034, 30«5(P), 3086, 3087, 3088, 3089(F), 

3 ?i 8 11’iWT) jriotPl^WPX 3 , 097 ^ 3098 ^^ 115 3II2(V) > 3 1 14(F), 3H5(P), 3n6 (P), 3*17, 
3186 ( S ^ T ( Ro ,3 ,Tnn^ ),3l22(P) ’ 3123(F), 3I29(P), 3I30(P), 3182,3183, 3184 IP), 3185, 
3215 |a/« 3200,3201,3206, 3107,3208,3209, 3210, 3211, 3212, 3214 

32 tj, 32X6, 32t8(P), 3219, 3220,3221, 3224, 3227, 3228, 3229, 323 x £ nd 3232. 

BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 

A ~" D passes through plot numbers 57, 1525, 1524, 1523, 1522, 1546, 1521, 1520, 

^oR?* f 5 °f 14985 14 9 7, t494, 1496, 1491, 1492, 1491, 1484, 2 °84, 
2$rf 20825 30461 2 °47, 2048, 2049, 2050, 2037, 2014 & 2016 in village Nizigarh 
( "alcner Town) and meets at point ‘D\ 


D—C 


C—B 


B-J 

J-I 

I-H 

H— G— F— E 

E— A 


Line passes through plot numbers 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2006, 2003, 
2 ??oI 2001j 'Wb 1990, 1987, 1983, 1982, 1981, 2255, 2256, 2486 
vfrlfcorf! ^ t.i 2 t 8 1 5 ~ 288, ? 290j 22 9t, 2292, 2293, 2296, 2297, 2298, & 2402 in villag 

Nizigarh (Talcher Town) and meets at point ‘C\ 

pass !( s th f ou 8 tl P lot numbers 240a, 2403, 2404, 2405, 2406, 2482, 2481, 
24821 S. 9 -,’ ? 4 ?°’ 24991 25 f°> 2501 ' 2 47 4, 2473, 2467, 2468, 2469, 2460, 2455, 

2459, 2457 ’ 3 ^ 3r29j 3 o8 9, 3°85, 3091, 3096, 3122, 3123, 3122, 3121, 3120 

3 *l 9 J 3l21 ’ 31165 3 I i5, 3X12, 1060,3114, 3097, 1061, 1062, 1077, 1073, 1075, 1074 
10511 11061 I109 > 11045 1II0 > riI 3, H14, in 5, 1116, 1126, 1x27, 1283, 1194 

;, 9 jp 11935 11965 12045 l20 9, 1210, 1211, 12X8, 1233, 1232, 1231, 1230, X229 

122 « 5 12 i 3 ' i2 1t’ 12461 12485 12515 12525 12555 12565 1259, 1260, 1263 

126&j 12715 lZ72 > 12755 12565 12 79, t28x, 840, 838, 835, 834 
3 5 5 S’,,n 9, l 22 ’, 8 * 11 3655 3 665 427, 426, 423, 422, 42X, 420, 419, 418, -U7, 
To® 1 4 LZ 42 ? 5 43 ° 5 4565 45 7, 4 6 3, 468, 472, 473, 477, 4?S, 483, 482, 484, 487, 494, 
127 x c?) 5 ?)r 5 , 7, W’ 554 ( 5825 57 55 573, 570, 565, 562, 559, t3°> 129, r28, 

Z 7 ’ 3 4F’ 118 m village Nizigarh (Talcher Town), through plot numbers 30B, 
3 4 ’- 3 3°7, 306, 300, 3ox, 298, 297, in village Remus, through plot number 

175 in village Nizigasbjamme and meets at point ‘B’. 

Q6 n o< P Tn C vil t i i n^ U Mi 1 P Iot , nu m bcrs *75, 1 74, 173, 170, 124, 1 14, 104, 103, 102, 99, 
f y l Nlzigarhajamnie, thrrugh plot numbers 69, 70, 6j, 54 in village, 
j , ta , e " a nn 8 tbc P art common boundary of Deulbera Colliery Lease, 

boundary) and meets at point ‘J 1 . 

Line passes through plot numbers 54, 47, 463 & Road in village Chaulikuta, 
pl< i t V Umber ^ (L2&3 Road), 72, 73, 75, through and along southern 

DOUnciarV or n Inf n llm hfr ft I,-,*-, 4-1-. ,-k 1 1*.. r- _ i j. 1 r,_ 


K A. - C , 2 « 5 Koaa;, 72, 73, 75 , through and along southern 

boundary ot plot number 76, along the southern boundary of plot numbers 77, 82, 
village Ni2igarh (Talcher Town) and meets at point ‘I 1 . 

k 1- .. 1 _ A 1 


& 1425 in vilfi 

Line passes through plot numbers 1425, 1426 and 1427 in village Nizigarh (Talcher 
Town) and meets at point ‘H’. 

Lines pass through plot numbers 1427, 80, 79, 82, 77, 76, 75, 73, 72, 69, 71 (i,2& 3 
Road, in village Nizigarh (Talcher Town) and through Road of village Chaulia- 
Kuta and meets at point ‘E’. 

Line passes through plot numbers Road of village Chauliakuta, through pint 
numbers (1, 2 &3 Road), 60, 64, 6c, 61, 60, 59 and 57 in village Nizigarh (Talcher 
I own), (i-e, along the part common boundary ofDeulbera Colliery lease boun- 
dary) and meets at point ‘A’. 


[No. F. C3- 2 ( 4 ) 70.] 
K. SUBRAHMANYAN, Und,. r Secy. 



4258 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part U— 


F«Wth) 

Hf FrFTt, 9 HT,f, 1971 

303 2 : — H7T %TF TIH % (W% 5% f-FFW) fftM-TTF, 
1957 ( 1957 Tr 20) Tt STRT 4 Ft ^'TETRT ( l) % wflT HTPT TWIT $ HeTyr 
ifK ZHiHn -ITT fJTT cTT HTJ TTFTT («3TT ?fhC t3T| ffHTH) Tf srfSTgHHT 
Ho spTo trro 2401 HRt<T 4 oJoTCf, 1970 STCT %-ilH TOR f HH H ?TO 

H qfkfa H 300. 00 FT? (oPDET) HI 129. 60|H&rc(oEm) 

*jkr t TtaJr % F?k >^fePH hthh tV ijhht ft «fr i 

sfk HFT: kik TOT TT HTTJTH ft HHT I Ft Tjfrr TT T%TT ^FT-ser 

1 1 

*ET: WH TfaHT HTH #T (51% wk fHTTH ) ^FuFfTH, 1957 ( 1957 sfT 20) 
ft STRJ 7 Tt HTTPT ( 1 ) (JTTT STTtT vrFTTHT Tr Tfm T-flH HT^rT TT5JPT 

fkrfFtkrrT Tt 'WFjM TUt % VmH HTTfPT Tt ij : — 

(% *H% UTTH« 'V Jr H%T 10.00 1JT? (nwr) HI 4 . 05 

(HWT) TFWT Tt iffH ; spfk 

(% ^h?t htths (% *t Hfqrr 310 . 00 w (oppht) ht 125 . 55 
(w*ht) tFchr «k *ffwT Jr nF% % nth, fw, sfk t%, 
$ F% *rk hhtV thth *%, ^5 tfh tth, Trf t% srk Jr 
Tk % srFsrrrr: 1 

fcwmt — 1 

TH Hfaq^FTT % SP.% HTE HTH % T %% TT ffflm TWT, HTTTFT, HTtHT 
% TPTrETH H HI TtHMT FtHHT, 1, Tl'dikvi ^1-dH T^TrTT % TTHfriH H HT 
TTHHT faTTH %TH faf H$* (TT5TFH H-J'fTIHj, FW ^TTH, TTHl, fT^TT % TnrffPT if FTHT 
'HI WT | I 

fr*m — 2 

fTTHJRI JFtHHT HTH WH (h^T ?ftT fHHTH) HfrrFTHH, 1957 Tt KTTO 8 T 
'T'TH^HTT Ttk WM HTHfTH fTHT ^TTHT ^ FWH F'UHfJrfHTT TTHHJ ^ : — 

"8( i ) f%rft ^rft 3 jFh h, Fjth% nk Jr httt 7 % nsfk ^rkt tT hs 

f^rTO Tftf ^tFft ?:nr^HHT % ^nft Fk: V ^kr Fhh % tfkr rF-'pr ^ftr nt thtt 

Ft# het % hi Ffr h-t ^ ht th tf ft-k •■. .tt 'f % hHt qr ht#t hv'tt i 

Fett thFfh Tr w, tfFe Ft htt tFth % % krT ^Fh h tth Tmut 

HOTtr TTHT HT^TT Hr q? Ft kf tfrTTlTT T-ftH HTTPC JRT HT FthV SPH 54% 

tkt rrrrrTT % ^ Trft th mpt % v~^M ^>tt i 

( 2) win ( 1 ) % rufk ukr Hikq hwh srrFrnFkt t> fkfer?r tt Jr Ftht 

htw rfrr hsth mFsrrkt wkqrk kr tpt nr FtFt wrHHrfr srrr fTHTf Tr httu: 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 . 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4259 


fit ijt tt toftF g-TE t titte fTf jti fPi'Pete fr, tPs ^ ff, ertf - 
TiTET, m Firm" EOF, TiET 4E F'Et SRI TT V TVfTT-J 4fl'< ilWTf 

IE FTTf ftTTrf^Tf TrTF TT f'.TR j 5fl4, ■i-VJR TvFR 4 , fTpSWiT 41 PT^T 'flipiT | 

( 3 ) *T TRT % JT'mr frir STPlT ^Ft T %TCS TUFT EIRET qff qft 
’q'T TfapEET F«RT sjfa TT .^flY tFe $ 4T TT TT *flf fFsRTR' TfYlcr feV JOT 
tft, tFttt- ir f^T tt sett tt stsr sm I 

f^E* — 3 


TTTi F ,TTT, 1 , TTRERT SIR T ffR, T EFcTT- 1 
% TTTTT T3T T .rfaTTU % ET F Pf-JR-f TTTT 44 T | 1 

"»" 

TTTTT ^T-fSEFR 

4E +Vji)-ii TR+ K A ITT ’4 Pu pETT 

JTf*T *0 TRTf*/37/71 

TlfF^T 17 T#, 1971 


FT®? FTSTT FT (RSETt) 

(Ff%T IlF FI^T *TffF FpEqff 
*PlET FT^T *T5fF ) 


TT®iT-l 

"TJfF TTplEPR” 



’fitMTET F<*1T 

«TPTr ST14T FfTT 

?2iET 

eS 1 * ft«rfw 


1 . 

2, 


Ttf?ETTF3T mFTT (TREK) 
HTST 


f'TjfNl'S 

(tper teer) 


Gf'TT’TTT 


1 t 


FET 


f T 10 . 00 trsp? (SEEEl) 

FT 4.5 (eEEET) 

'tftf*TOT*EZ SIFT * Wfa* fwA *TT# wri ^t^ff ift TT<WT : 

-1 1 (fF), 45 (<fF), 46 (<tF), 47 (<fF), 54 (fF) fFT (cfF) 1 

T 4f , T? SET ( TE3? fwTT ) wF-f T f*T*T TEF SlY TTf'P TlTT Tf ERTT 

( 1, 2*ftr (fET), 60( r. )| 71 (tF), 72 (tF), 73 ('ft), 75 ('ft'), 76 

(ft), 77 (fr), 79 (tF), 80 (tF), 82 (<fF) I 1426 (tfF), 1426^(TF), 1427 (ft) I 

sfarr Fofn : 

»■- T-T-T wr?# TT fspEK (TERR TEER) t TtfTTEEST TF E5T (TS'sfT 1, 2, 
Fh 3), 1 TSTTTT 71, 69, 72, 73, 75, 76, 77, 82, 79, 80, 

1427 TF iJTTTfF £ Fk V qx frmfF $ I 






4260 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II - 


n-T Tim Trfrr’Ff (huts tehr) ?; mm f^rir 142 , 1426 Hit 1475 

IT TRft I 51 k fTT V TT ffTT-fl | I 

5T-5T TUSH TTTT faftiTT? (cfT-PT? TUTTr) % FTR TWIT? 142 5, 8 2, 7 7f?t?ftfrft 
THU f>‘ TT«T fTR r UT£ WIT 76 FT ftR Tfiffift flRT f>' TTT'T f RlT flSHT 
75, 73, 72 (TTTT 1, 2, 2) 5T^ TTT FtftFITRT % ^TTT 46, 47 ft? 54 

% ftR wrrfr f 5fk itmi tr ffuft f ; 

3t~T URF TTTT TtfTTTTTT f RfR fT^TFF 5 4, 47, 44 5ffT 45 (STf!^ fiJUffT 

Tiwrr urm trt fTm fit ‘ttr : umim Tfror 4 / urn) % ftR iprrft | 

srk 'V' tt ffurft f 1 

fTfT *T° TT3TIT/37/7 1 
3TIT<J* 2 TTltlf 17-5-71 


(f ^wtt ffrnr Rfr tf-tt 
■3f?T If FT-jff I,' if 'IT, if ITT 
ftm, fir fF^r, if>f%, 
CTTITT RT, Rf‘ 
TRT Rif, TTT R7" iftT 
% unt % wfaRt; 
STfUT W Tl^f t) 

"W TfUTlT” 


TPT 

TTRT 

urn 

tttt ftti Tfim krai 

iStrrT 

HR fE'Tftnit 

1. 

(fTum 

trut (rtr) frRrTru 

HFT 


TFTT’T ) 

itqt 

) t 

2. 

RfrfriTrTTT 

7 7 7 

J 7 

3. 

jfi 

7 7 7 7 

» 7 

4. 

ftfjm 

7 7 ft 

fT W5T 310. 
UTT 12 5,55 t^TT HTTHT 

bt 

oo tr (ifwur) 


SUfauT 4,- TT m*T f wffrT faf 4TTT «H*ff «pt TT'iTT 

Tv 

46 (ft), 47 (fl), 65 (ft), 69 (ft), 70 (ft) fk 71 ^T 76 TFF I 

ft# iTfTO# wrrfa %f 4TFT iflf <*fT if «# #WT 

95 (ft), 96 (ft), 99 (ft), 100, 101, 102 (^fV) , 103 ('ft), 104 (ft), 
105 % 113 cifT, 114 (ft), 115 IT 123 TTfl, 124 (ft), 170 (ft), 171, 

173 (ft), 174 (ft) 5TTTC 175 (ft) I 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 70, 1893 4261 


ffUmmT H qft ITT >w'f «pt TT TH: — 

297 (ft), 298 (qrV) , 300 (ft), 301 (fr), 302, 303 , 304(fr), 305,, 
300 (ft), 307 (fr) qflT 308 (fr) I 

ftir>r$ mw ( frwfln' f fvf 'snr c *nff •rftw'wr; — 

5TST: 1, 2'^- 3 (ft), 57 (it), 59 (ft), 60 (fr), 61 (ft), 62, 63, G4(ft), 
65, 66, 67, 68, 69 (ft), 70, 71 (ft), 72 (ft), 73 (ft), 74, 75 (fr),76 (ft), 

7 7 (ft), 78, 79 (ft), 80 (ft), 81, 82 (ft), 83 TT 1 1 7 cW, 118 (ft), 1 1 9 it 

126, ?PF 127 (ft), 128 (fr), 129 (ft), 130 (ft), 131 it 364rFF, 365 (ft), 

366, (ft), 367 f 415 cm, 416(ft), 417 (ft), 418 (ft), 419 (ft), 420(ft), 
421 (ft), 422 (ft), 423 (ft), 424, 425, 426 (ft), 427 (ft), 428 (ft) 429, 
(ft), 430 (ft), 456 ( t), 457 (ft), 463 (ft), 468 (ft), 472 (ft), 473 (ft), 
477 (ft), 478 (ft), 482 (fr), 483 (ft), 484 (ft), 487 (ft), 488, 489, 
490, 491, 492, 493, 494 (ft), 495 (ft), 496, 497, 498, 499, 500(ft),5Ql 
(ft), 502, 503, 504, 505, 506, 507(ft), 508 fr 552 5W, 553 (ft), 554 (ft), 
555, 556, 557, 558, 559 (ft), 562 (ft), 563, 564, 565 (ft), 570(ft), 
571, 573 (ft), 575 (ft), 576,577 (ft), 582 (ft), S2l(ft),822 (fr), 823- 
fr 8 28 FT°F, 82 9 (ft), 830 (ft), 83l(ft), 832,833, 834 (ft), 835 (ft), 836, 
837, 838 (ft), 840 (ft), 1060 (ft), 1061 (ft), 1062(ft), 1071 (ft),. 
1073 (ft), 1072 (ft), 1075 (ft), 1076 (ft), 107 7 (ft), 1 0 78 & 1 102cW 
1104 (fr), 1 1 05, 1 106 (ft), 1109 (ft), 1110 (ft), 1113 (ft), 1114 (ft), 
1115 (ft), 1 1 16 (fl), 1 126 (ft), 1127 (fr), 1 1 92(ff), 1193 ('ft), 

1194 'ft), 1195, 1196 (ft), 1204 (ft), 1209 (ft), 121 0 ( ft ) . 121l(ft), 
1218 (ft), 1219 fr 12263T, 1227 (ft), 1228 (ft), 1229 (ft), 1230 (ft), 
1231 (ff), 1232 (ft), 1233 (fl), 1243(ft), 1 244 (ft), 1 246 (ft), 1248 
(ft), 1251 (ft), 1252 (ft), 1255 (ft), 1256 (ft ) , 1 25 9 (ft) , 1260 (ft), 

1 263 (ft), 1264 (ft), 1267 (ft), 1268 (ft), 1271 (ft), 1272 (ft), 

1275 (ft), 1276 (fr), 1279 (ft), 1281 (ft), 1282, 1283, (ft), 1 284 fr 

1424 rPF, 1425 (ft), 1426 (ft), 1427 (fr), 1428 ft 1483 m', 1484 (it)' 
1185 it 1490 TT1, 1491 (ft), 1492 (ft), 1494 (ft), l496(ft), 1497 (ft), 
1498 (ft), 1499 1500, (ft), 1501 (ft), 1502 (ft), I503 it 1518 

cEF, 1519 (ft), 1520 (ft), 15 21 (ft) , 1522 (ft), 1523 (fr), 1524 (ft), 

1525 (ft), 15 46 (ft), 1981 (ft), 1982 (ft), 1983 (fl), 1987 (ft), 1990 

(ft), 1991 (ft), 1992 it 2000 FUF, 2001 (fr), 2002 (ft), 2003 (ft), 

2006 (ft), 2011 (ft), 2012 (ft), 2013 (ft), 2014 (ft), 2015 

(ft), 2016 (ft), 2037, (ft), 2046 (ft), 2047 (ft), 2048 (ft), 2049 (ft), 
2050 (ft), 2051 (ft) it 2081 FUF, 2082 (ft), 2083 (ft), 2084 (ft), 

2085 tt 2254 (if), 2255 (ft), 2256 (ft), 2 287 ('it), 22S8(ft), 2289(H ) ,, 
2290 (ft), 2291 (ft), 2292 (ft), 2293 (ft), 2296 (ft), 2297 (ft), 

2298 (ft), 2202 (ft), 2403 (ft), 2404 (ft), 2405 (ft), 2406 (ft),. 

455 (ft), 2457 (ft), 2458 (ft) 2459, 2460 (ft), 2461 it 2466 ?FF, 2467 



4262 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30. 1893 [Part 1J - 


('ft) , 2468 (ft), 2469, (ft) , 2473 (ft), 2474 (ft), 2479 (ft), 2480(ft), 

2481 (ft), 2482 (ft), 2483 2384, 2485 (ft), 2486 (ft), 
2487 if 2 498 a^P, 2499 (ft), 2500 (fr) , 2501 (ft), 2502 f 30o4, 
3085 (ft), 3086, 3087, 3088, 3089 (ft), 3091 (ft), 3092 it 3095 RT, 
3096 (ft), 3097 (ft), 3098 it 3111 RF, 3112 (ft), 3114 (ft), 

3115 (ft), 3116 (ft), 3117, 3118, 3119 (fr), 3120 (ft), 3121 (ft), 
3122 (ft), 3123 (ft), 3 1 2 9 (ft) : 3130 (ft), 3182, 3 1 83, 3 184 (ft) , 
3185, 3186, 3187, 3188, 3189, 3190, 3191, 3200. 3201, 3206, 3207, 
3208, 3209, 3210, 321 1, 3212, 3214, 3215, 3216, 3 2 1 8 (ft) 32 19, 3220, 
3221, 3224, 3227, 3228, 3229, 3231 ST*tT 3232, I 

^ftn WH : — 

m-«r- w hit ftRtrf (hrrt ttutt) f f wr 57, 1525, 1524, 

1523, 1522, 1546, 1521, 1520, 1519, 1502, 1501,1498, 1497, 
1494, 1496, 1491, 1492, 1491, 1484, 2084, 2083,2082, 2046, 
2047, 2048, 2049, 2050, 2037, 2014 2016 it HSTRl | sflT 

v qrr fyrft 1 1 

*T-H FIT^t HR frftn^r (TRHT) RR HSHT 201 6, 20 15, 

201 4, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2006, 2003, 2003, 200 1, 2002, 2001, 
1991, 1990, 1987, 1983,1982,1981, 2255,2256, 2486, 2485, 
2289, 2287,2288,2290,2291,2292, 2293,2296, 2297, 2298, 

sfk 2402 it fsRj, V h fwft f i 

H-’H RTR HR f-tfVof (:WR THH?) H r ^TZ HOT! 2402, 2403, 2404, 
2405, 2406, 2482, 2481, 2482, 2479, 2480, 2489, 2500, 2501, 
2474, 2473, 2467, 2468, 2469, 2460, 2455, 2459, 2457, 3130, 
3129, 3089, 3085, 3091, 3096, 3122, 3123, 3122, 31 21, 3120, 

3119, 3121, 3116, 3115, 31 12, 1060, 31 14, 3097, 1061, 1062, 

1077, 1073, 1075, 1074, 1 071, 1 1 06, 1 1 09 1 1 04, 1 1 1 0, 1 1 13, 

1114, 111 5, 11 16, 1126, 1 127, 1283, 1 194, 1 192, 1 193, 1194, 

1204, 1209, 1210, 121 1, 1218, 1233, 1232, 1231, 1230, 1229, 
1728, 1 227, 1243, 1244, 1 246,1248,1251,1252,1 255, 1256, 
1259, 1260, 1263, 3218, 1264, 1267, 1268, 1271, 1273, 1275, 
1276, 1279, 1281, 840, 838, 835, 824, 831, 830, 829, 822, 

821, 365, 366, 427, 426, 423, 422, 421, 420, 41 9, 418, 41 7 

416, 428, 429, 430, 456, 457, 463, 46S, 472,473, 477, 478, 

483, 482, 484, 487, 494, 4954, 500, 501, 507, 553, 554, 582, 

577, 575, 456, 573, 570, 565, 562, 559, 1304, 129, 1 28, 127, 

3184, 118, HR ftJRT f RR T'SHT 30 3, 304, 306, 307, ?0 6, 

300, 301, 298, 297, HR f-fftHT 3TR H "RT3 TOT 1 7 5 it ’pruft | 

sfk V ht fyrft % i 

•<J-5T HR fTfW^r HIH f RfR 175, 17 4, 17 3, 1 7 0, 124, 1 14, iG4, 

103, 102, 99, 96, 9 5, % HR HtfiTHFFZT CR3 HSHET 69, 70, 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4263 


6 5, 5 4 (TstfcT mm RT>TRT 13T4 9TTT rRT *jfV RRR RETTR RtfiT % 

?rr*r ) fr TiRT mrr-fi | trk fkj 'k v: fmrfi t 1 

5T-3T viTSR RdRTTRFr R drf.c T<s TTf 54, 4 7, 46, HR RTF R ffafiT, HR 

fkfk? (d~~T ttett) r mf rirtr 12 , 73, 75 (rtt 1, 2, tit 3) 
4 , sispT w «usrr 7 « h fisp< ?fbfRi rrt v rr, c tr. 77, 8 2 TfT' 
1425 # -ifrk ^fhrr t ret Cfr .j-irrcf- t Tk fk| V t < fkhfr | 1 

ST-R RRR TFT PiRR? (dREJ TERR) % 'Rfd' RGRT 1425, 14 26, -4fVT 
142 7 % ^r.dl <f *lk fiFJ V HT fRRdf | I 

t-ei-t-t rtr hit fkfiR? (^mrf Tirm) Jr o=rrr R'mk 1427 , so, 79 , 82, 

77, 76, 75, 73, 72, 69, 71 (RTT 1, 2 sftT 3) ?1 f RFT ,;k TTR RoW-- 
?FTT *>t T5 ?t ^ITT TRUf! | Tk fk| '? TT fkufr % I 
r-t “44 hr FhhFh (drRRRR'FFK) r hr r ht.;,- mi kk?; 

(r?H 1, 2 TIT 3 ) TTm d'SHTH 60, 64 , 69, 61, 60, 59 TIT 57 (Tdfcf 
t^rrst HtH<=rr tr trt hFrt h! rptr: tret ifiRr t rtt) Jr ijiHT. 
HTTfl I sfk T?’ IT fHRdt | I 

[do HR TtTTT-3-2(4)/70] 


%o ^jjuinT, TdT RfdT I 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19th July 1971 

S.O. 3033. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Balailal Mukherjee and Company Private Limited, Naya Bazar, Cuttack 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1968. 

[No. S.-35019(67)/71-PF. II.l 

NR TlfifiK ^RT^R RRTRR 
(nr tfk fbrRTT fRRTn) 


dffkvft, 19 ^vTTl 1 , 1971 

VTo T7° 3033-HR : WRTSR 1 R rjRiff 

srnpk fkfka r rtththttt, hth rthh prm Jr fdTfarrsik «p^RTfRf 
Ht tr ret ht r^rr f % vrfkr fafe Tk tIthtt 

T9FT frfST TfsjfRHH 1952 ( 1952HT19) % RHHRT RTd TH1TR H> RP[ f%C[ TFf 
RT%r ; 



4264 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II— 


TOT, TOT, ITT TOfaffiTOH TO TOR I TO TWRI ( 4) TITT TfTOT wfTOHf TO TOT 17 

torT ftr *h:tor tot TOfafronr ^ tot vTOm TO toth torttI 1 

TOfarjTOTT 1 9 68 ^ TORRt ^ SEW fed TO TOTH ft HHSTT TOr?fr I 


[Ho T^-35019 (ey)/?!-^ HTO0-2] 

S.O. 3034. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Hotel Groves, 3/17, Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
December, 1970. 

[No. S. 35019 (28)/71-PF. II.] 
VT° tfT° 30 3 4. — Tcf: TOTHT !TWR TO TOTtd ffldT | f% HhH flRT TOtHT 

3/17, snrrfiinft fR, df feRft dwr ritet to htoh frofTTOro HR ^ toRtt TOTfHwr 

RT TOdT TOT TTdTOd ft fif I TOTTORf 'dfdTO fdfa TOR TO TOT fdfa TOfufdTOTO 195 2 
( 1 95 2 TO 1 9) % TWJ TOd FTOTTOTO dit HRT fTO* srTd TOlfftT ; 

m., tot, toto trfafwr Htsirt 1 to etrt (4) trtto^t difroroR tototoFt 
tot! |<T RiPffivT trtor tot TOfafdroro % tow to f«rm to h-t^rt hr tort | 1 
fit scrfErgRfiT 1 970 % fenro:, % totoh fcd TO totoh ft HRfft w/fr 1 


[Ho qH-35019 ( 28)/71— Tfo tTCgo 2 ] 

S.O. 3035. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, Moodabidri, South Kanara, Mysore State haw 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension 
Fund Act, 1852 (19 of 1952), should he made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1970. 

[No. S-35019/22/71/PF-lI(ii).] 

TOTT° tiro 303 5. — FT: Tdfld 1RTOT Fit TOf> TOcfld <ftdT | TOTOTR TOTd 

TORT ijdTifryd, HTHTO TORT, TTTO, dTTO RTTTOH TO TTOTS: fddTTO HR TOT- 

TOTRdT q?T TOfHW RT TOT TOT TOTOTO ?T d£ | fTO TTOlfl TOdfRr ftfa HR JW TOTOT 
fdfH TOfyfddTO 1952 ( 1952 TO 19) % TOW TTO FdTdd TO TOO fTOT TOTd TOffd ; 

tot:, TOTO, TOT TOftlfTOU Ht TORT 1 Ht TOTORT ( 4) 3RT FTOT FT pRPlf TO TOld 
TORTf %RRt HTTOT TOT TOfuT-Rfi % TOW TOT RTTTOd Fit RT^STTr HFJ TOTOfr | I 

H^TOfsT^TOTT 1970 TOR ft % 5 TTOT fdd TO TOTOd TTOTSTT TOMPl I 

[TOo HH— 35019( 5fi) /71— rffo HTOo 2] 



Sec. 3 ( i i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 197I/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4265 


S.O. 3036.- — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Manickbag Oil Mills, Manickbag Belgaum, Mysore State hive agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 01 
the Eaid Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first dav of 

January, 1971. 

[No. 3. 35019(33) /71-P.F. Ill 

FTo sno 3036. — FT: FTTfa TTTFR Fl iff TATA jtfiT | fF ifaff FfoFTF FFFT 
fa>FT, sfTTFT, TTjF TIFF (Wi T TPFTT ffiFTTF Fft ^fi-dlfTOT Ft 

TfTW W TTT TT FfFT ft P TF FFTTft Mr tffi f W TFT fafF FfaffiFF, 
195 2 ( 1 9 5 2 Ffl 9 ) % TWIT TFT WTT Ft fFh FIT FrffT ; 

5STcT:, FT, TFT FfaimTOT To £TKT 1 Ft FWITT ( 4 ) JTTO FFxT FfTTFt FT 5PTPT 
FTT fir TTFR TFT FfafFTF % FTFtJ TFT fFTTT Ft ^TfTTTT 'TPT FTTt | I 

T? Ffaf(FTT 1 9 7 1 Ft FTTTt # JPFT far F> TTTcT FWT FTTPft I 


35019( 3 3) / 7 1-^t 0 I7F° 2] 

S.O. 3037 — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, Ullal, Mangalore Taluk, South Kanara have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, J D52 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section t|4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1970. 

[No. S-35019 (38) / 7 1 / PF.-II.] 

Fro Fro 303 7 . — FT: TTTFTT F> Ff TTtT ftTT f. % fcpf FFTtT FWF 

Ftft TOT, TFTTTT, FFTTT TFfF, FF3F FTT7T TIFF TTTFT % TP : T3' ffifiFFT FIT 
FFTTfnft Ft FfTW ^TT TFT FT FfFT ft fif ft fF F^FT^t Ff«FF fdftT F>T 'TUFT 
ffifT FfafTTF 1952 (1952 FT 19) % TTF’T TFT F4TTT F> TFT fFF FTT Flff F 

ft:, FT, TFT FPsrfTFT T?t Trcr 1 Ft TT3TU ( 4 ) TKT TT'T srfFTTT FT Wifi 
FTft TF TTTFTT TFT FfaffiFF % TTFET TFT FTT'TT F> T[TfTT7T TT*jT FTrft | I 

FfFfafFTT 1970 ; ftFTFft% FTT fTT Ft TFT f f TTfft FfiTfit | 


[To ir?To 35019( 38) / 7 l-fto^F 02 J 

S.O. 3038.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Nagaram Co-operative Milk Supply Society Limited. No. D.3(D), Tali. Calicut, Kerala 
State have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 



4266 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II- 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st July, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(68)/71-PF. II. 1 

* 

TT° WTo 3038 . — EE : EEfPr ETTR Tt STEtE tTtvTT % % 

WRIT 'frl’HT'R.for fpeT *n*rRZ[ fHfazS, E o tft -3 (ft), Elvfr TTOtoZ- 1 , 
TRE, ETET HERE E ffiElTT wk q.-tf’Erfurf q?t EfETET HE ENT 

it ezee ft e! | f% TEEifr vrfs, cq- fn ftr wb tziettie ftfa srfsrfEEE, 1952 (1952 
ee 19 ) % eee *etee h.’j farr Eif^ 1 

we:, we, ^ee srRjfwr^t «mr 1 Tt wir (4 ) jri sre wftEEf et 

EE1E TTE %k[E HTTR 3 1 spiff, 1971 E EEE wfsfEEE % ETEH ZET TETEE TT 
TTrl^gnTT rntj TRft | I 

[E° E,Wo -3 5019 ( 66 ) / 7 T t ft° 2 ] 


S.O. 3039,— Whereas it appears to the Cental Government that the employers 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
S. M. K. Industries, Plot No. 63A, 1st floor, Virco Bhawan, Government Industrial 
Estate, Kandivali (West) Bombay-67 have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo- 
yees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act. the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

ThiB notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
August, 1970. 

[No. S. 35017/5/71-PF. II (i).] 

«FT0 WTO 303 0." —EE : kSlE ETEET Wt Ef *T?ft(T fTfil | f% EEE EEo 
ETo%o FwftT, TTTZ ho 63 E, EEZ qsflT, fak«Ft EEE, EE^PZ ^tf^EE E?SZ Ebft- 
WT (kz) E*Ef -67 ETET TERE % fEElET wk EPElftEt *|?t EfETEI ETE 
IT E|EE |T h? | fo TEEfTt ERr-E fzfa WIT fZ*E THE fhlU wftifhEP, 19 5 2 ( 1952 

tt 1 9 ) % zee^e zee fere et[ ette fTE wk wif^t ; 

WE:, WE, ZEE wffcfk.l. *f) STRT 1 wi ZEOW ( 4 ) 5’iTT E5TT EifkET ET SUftE 
e;te |E %?£e treit z*iz sftfk.w % zesoet z^.z qfr eessri ete ezzi i 

Ef 1 97 0 % if, Eld % SEE fVf W 7 i gf ZPSft ZTtpft I 

[HSETtpio 35017(l2)/71-'ftottq;o2] 


S.O, 3040, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Leo Textiles, 22/5, Hadapsar Industrial Estate, Poona-13 have agreed that the pro- 
visions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 
of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-3eetion (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April, 1970. 

[No. S. 35017/5/71-FF. II(i).] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA .10, 18JG 


FR WT° 3040. — EE : eMW ETFR Ft iff RcftE ftET | fF EEE fwT 
MeZT?RT 2 2/5, ET-ET M%ER t/M, EER I 3 ETEF WIT % WEE fMtEF ER 

wrifwi Ft e^efei se ete er e?ee ft e£ S fF fMi^ E fMr M e tM jew Me 

Me ErfstfEEE, 1952 ( 1952 FT 19) % TTE^E EFE R1TEE FT EFT f%TT ^flE WTf^rr ; 

EE', EE, TEE EfaffiEE Ft STITT 1 # TEERT (4 ) ERT ETE MeM FT MfI 
FTTt JTT MftE TRFR TEE EfttfEEE % TEERT TEE TEFEE Ft UTT^fTTT TFT FTcfl | I 

m EftRJEET 1 97 0 v eM % 3TEE fM Ft 5PJE 3$ EESft REM | 

[E° EE° 35017(s)/ 7 1— 'ft’o EFo 2(i)] 


S.O, 3041. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st April 1970 the establishment known as Messrs Leo 
Textiles, 22/5, Hadapsar Industrial Estate, Poona-13 for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

[No. S. 35017/5/71-PF. II(ii)-l 

«pt° wo 3041 . — FMrft eMe Me jew Me Me eTeItee, 1952 

( 1 95 2 FT 19) Ft ERT 6 % E*FT TRJF 5RT TUT FftfM FT WT FWf gE 
TRFR fWT if ETWiF M FT EE % 'RETE TteTETTT Me fEET EEEETIyE, 22/5, 
JEER q*£z EE I- 1 3 ETEf RIRE F> 5TEE EW, 1 9 70 ft TFT ERJF % 

SWTeeT % feTTi; Me^gE FWt f I 

[flo C(E° 3 50 17( 5)/71-ET-°r/Ei°-2(ii) J 


S.O, 3042. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Jai Forgings and Stampings (Private) Limited Industrial Area, Yamuna Nagar, 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(22) /71-PF-II(i)-l 

FT° W° 30 42. — EE ■' SieOe u VFl V Elf Eg EEtE (fldt ^ M FR- 

guF M-uie (srrfM) PhTeM , Mpjet rrfw, etjet eet etef tetee tr ewee 

(Mrf Eft fMtM M EgEWT gE ETE FT EgEE gt M | % FE ETft eMe ffife *fR 
F^wMe Me EftlPdEE, 1952 ( 19 52 EH 19) % TFEET TEE RHEE FI ETE 
ETE ET%q ; 


EE-', EE, TEE MEfEEE Ft ERT 1 Ft ( 4) TRT EEE EFfEET FT EEtE ERE 
^tr ERFR tEI ERfnEE F TEEW -jFT RTIEE Ft EEEERI EFT F<eT f I 

Eg EfETJEEt 1 9 7 1 Ft Efdfi F EEE fr-V Ft EEE EESft ETTTTft I 

[Eo iTEo-3501 9( 2 2 ) / 7 1— ft - 0 TTF 70 - 2 I 



268 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II 


5.0. 3043. — In exercise of the powers conferred by. first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st January, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Jai Forgings and Stampings (Private) Limited, Industrial Area, Yamuna Nagar 
for the purpose of the said proviso. 

[No. S-35019/22/71/PF-IKii).] 

qho Ztro 3 013. — %hfET UTfK qhfiKt qfqcq fqfq sfTT T5ET nfd, 

srfsrfqqq, 1952 ( u ~t u) qtarcr 6 %sr*w TTfr tt jpfpr 

qrqs . q q - q: if'=r qyif % qqqTfT qqq qqqff, 1971 # 4 0 

T'TTf^Tq > y £ . . , :) fqfqR SRfcsqq pfw, qqqi >PR TPTT ^JT'Th spf 

ORgl- . v . , . T fvlfn; fqrfdf^ qRcft | | 

[q° Q;eo-350l9(22)/71-'ft° 2(ii)] 

: ' ipears to the Central Government that the employer 

.yioyees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
i. , Agriculture Development Private Limited, 24, R. N. 

...ata-l have agreed that the provisions of the Employees’ 
_.nj. Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made 
< . said establishment; 

•erefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of 
. the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
... . Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April, 1970. 

[No. S. 35018/15/71-PF. II(i).l 
qiTo qT° 3 0 44. — TT: %^[q STTR qft qf JRftT gTcTf | % ifqq qtqT|q 

fflqqq quq TTqtwqT qTRJ %fqR, 24-RTo lTq 0 qiqqf Tfe, qqqqfT-i 

TRfi RFR ¥T faqRq 3[R qrqqTfrqf qgqRT R Ref IT qRq ft qf | fqr qq- 
RTt qfqcq fq% ?fR fffR qjfpr fqftr qfqfqqq, 1952 ( 1 952 TT 19) % 37W Rrf 
qqm qrr ptpt ffnr ^rq qrffrr ; 

STcf:, SR, TJTcT qfqfqqq qft qRf 1 T°t YT-STirr ( 4) fRT qqfT qfqqq'T qrT qq>q 

^7% | it %Rtq qRR YTT qMfiqJf % RRif Ref RFR TT t[RTRT iTN TRrfr | | 

qf qfsppqr 1970% ttrrt % srqq feq qfr qqq |f qqqt sTiRt 1 

[Ro Ro-35018 ( 1 5)/7 l-9to tnqo 2 (i)] 

5.0, 3045. — In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the first April. 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Overhead Irrigation and Agriculture Development Private Limited, 24, 
R. N. Mukherjee Road, Calcutta-1 for the purposes of the said proviso. 

[No. S. 35018(15)/71-PF. II(ii).l 

qbo 3 04 5: — 7/qfVq hTYTT qnpqR) qfqrir fq% jjr ^nrq crr fqfij 

qfsrfqqq, 1952 ( 195? R 19 ) aft 4RI 6 7T q>jq iR-;pr gRT 5RW srffqqr qf qqfq 
qqq gpr qa sr fqqq if qr qsqqr ^rq 4Rq T TRrq (R ggR; qqq 5TS q, 1 9 7 0 if qqq 
STRsiq or TTtfjqprqT RRifR qrRj fqfqR, 2 4 qr T o n;qo qqsff frq, 
qfqqtff - 1 qrqT fsim qft tw qq’^qr % RFqlr ^ fqq ftfifer qqat | 1 

[ffo tTqo 35018( 15)/qr^iTfio 2(H)] 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4269 


S-O. 3046. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs. 
H.M.T. Ancillary Units, Co-operative Society, Limited, Bangalore, 31 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January, 1971. 

[No. S. 35019(32)/71~PF. II. 1 

$T° HT° 3046. — ipf: %'sftq qrf 9f[ SRftrf ftfiT j| far iftni tnio 

falkkj iwk- 3 1 dPlT tfm fkfTHT 

wk qrqwifwT tt Hfww tet qr Hfw ft qf t far qiwft qfkq fuftr sftr qfpTK 

WT ffiftl srftrfWT, 1952 (1952TT 19) % WtT WPT *Ft HI^ fer HTfflT ; 

m:, 5PT, nqq srftjftwir qrt wu i qrt Hq-gru ( 4 ) irt stth wfewf qq wrt 

qkt fir w wfsriwT % wwsr hhh qqqqq qpj qnrft | 1 

[Wo tr^o 35019 ( 32)/7 1-Tto q;q5o 2] 

S.O. 3047. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employers 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs. 
Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, Bantwal, South Kanara have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 
(19 of 1952), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 


This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first dav of 
February, 1970. 

[No. S. 36019(16) /71-PF. 11,1 
WIo 3047. — m' kgk HCFIT *qt qf 5RftcT ftdT | 1% qq^ik ipT-fT 

sft^t wq srrth, qfa<q ttrt repp frttt A friqW-P skAPfirfurt Tt qg- 
f)W §q did 9T WgqcT ft qf | f% TEHlTt qfqw ffifST qk TCTH qifPf fqfn trfafqqr, 
1952 ( 195?. 34 19) % 7PFT PURR 44 HPI faq WIT qiffq ; 

SR:, SR, TR Slfgfqqq Wt 8 TRT 1 Wt WTiTTU ( 4) TTPT TT'd UTfepit TT qWRT 
TTd' PkPT HTTFR wqq wfafdTR- % wqqvtl RTfT pQm WT ((rfTPdTTT HP] PTfiT | I 

qg qfsrqq-qr 1970 wt qpwft q: stop fkr wt hwh gf qqsfr wr^qt i 

[Ho TWO 35 019 ( 1 8 ) / 7 1— 'ft o H'To 2 ] 


liOT line nm. 3 Ml ‘m 3 a ona^ 

S.O. 3048.- -In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds and Family Pensions Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 
1952), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M. A, Sutaria to be an Ins- 
pector for the whole of the State of Maharashtra for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder, in relation to any establishment belonging 
to, or under the control of the Central Government, or in relation to any establish- 
ment connected with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil-fleld or a 
controlled industry. 


[No. A. 12015(4) /71-PF. 1,1 



4270 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


20 1971 

TTTo OTo 3048 — %3fFl BT+TT, vrf^W faftj 54 TT TOT MtJ ^fyfTTT 

1952 (l952 ^T 19) spt aTU 13 3WTCT (l) JTTT TT7T STfttPff TT 5FTH tfiTeT 
t^TTSITT NT En o I °fit ’TTaf^EnT % wVT rT^tfUT wf 

fclft T^ifcr % fWK % ITT 3TT% f^TWT if feft ■F'TFET % ITsitT if ^TT 

fiprft' ^TT 5 f'F f T ; ff, f^rff •HgHti'T, feft ^TET TT f%rfV $T5T TT f%lft Him f^d Tj^fRT Tf TT'fTfHltT 

f«Rit WER % TH^EJ if TF^f FfRT^ TRT % sftlj fafJfSFF STTcft | |j 

[T1W TJo— 12015 ( 4) jTl—'flo tnfi 0 l] 


New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 

S.O. 3049 — ■ : In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Dep- 
artment of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 1528, dated the 27th March, 1971, the 
Central Government, having regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4) 
Of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule 
in the State of Uttar Pradesh in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of employer’s 
speci il contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year from the 26th June, 1971 upto a nd inclusive of 25th June, 1972 or until the 
enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever in earlier. 


Schedule 


22 j 
^ 0 ■ I 

Name of District 

(2) 

Name of Area J 

(3) 

Name of the Factory. 

(4) 

I. 

Azamgarh 

• Azamgarh 

■ 1. Messrs Shri Mahabir Finishing 

Factory, Sahaduttapura, Mua- 
nath Bhanjan, Azamgarh. g < 

2. Messrs Arjun Textiles, Ghazipu 
Road, Maunath Bhanjan, Azam- 
garh. 

2 . 

Balia • • 

■ Balia ■ 

• Messrs Sarasvati Iron a nd Steel 
industries, Baleshwar Ghat Road, 
Balia. 

3. 

Buiundshar • 

• Khurja 

• Messrs L. G. Products, Junction 
Road, Khurja. 

4. 

Faizabad 

• Masodha 

■ Messrs Vishnu Industrial Enter- 
prises Limited, Motinagar Rail- 
way Station, Masodha. 

5. 

Mathura 

• Vrindaban • 

■ Vrindaban Porcelain and Enamel 
Industries, Udyognagar. 

6 . 

Muzzaffarnagar 

Shamli 

■ Messrs Swastika Metal Rolling 
Mills, Delhi Road. 

7. 

Meerut 

■ Partappur 

■ Messrs Electra, B-4, industrial 
Estate. _ 

8. 

Nainital 

• Lohia Head 
(Via Pilibhit) 

• Messrs Sarda Vidur Grih, Lohia 
Head. 

9. 

Saharanpur • 

• Ram Nagar • 

■ Messrs Green Land Food (Private 
Limited, Dchradun Road. 

10. 

Varanasi 

• Mughalsarai 

■ Messrs Indian Oil Corporation 
Limited, Ali Nagar, G,T. Road. 


[No. F. 6o2(i4)/7o-HI] 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4271 


font, 31 33Tf 1971 

<TTo Wo 3049. — OOOTfa TRO faOT fafaffaTO, 1948 ( 1948 TO 34 

4ft orcr 1 3-0 sur oto fafaot or srfao ofar |(r far otto otoot % 00 , Troon: far 
•prfao faroo (3-3 far faoorr ffano) fa olfaiooT owt oto 1528 onto 27 

jfTrf, 1971 O 03 t fafaO 3TOO > 304 33T3® TT-TR^fr % TOm ( 4) 4 fafoffar TTRTRT 
fa W STOgfa % 73*3 ( 3) if ffaoffao 33T fao TRO % 0,0 £fa if, fO30 3*3 ofafOTO 

& stctto 4 far 5 % ororr mn ofa |, ofafarfo ^rrr soro Jr roo |0 too oorgro fa 3*3 
fagfooo % oeoto ofa ofao o^orffao fofasro % ffafa ofooro % tfor Jr, 26 ^3, 
1 97 1 ir 25 %*, i 972 o<r ffarir ^ for fa Fri^crf^er |, if far m fa oofo % fact ot 
33 CTTr % fact 33 3T fa 3*3 faoffaro % 353T3 5 % 3433T 33 ’Ofa 4 TOO ofa fa 
3TO, fa fa Tjfa fa, I tfa»T 7 T cTfa | I 


«fiO 

WT 

fafa TO 3TO 

W3 00 3T0 

OOTOTO 00 oro 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1 

OT300S 

ETl ^ 00^ 

i, oo4 fa ofrfar faffaoo fa rzfa, ofrco- 




jrr, oajoro ooo, wrooos i 




2. 4o4 ofao faoTTScTT, OTfafT far, 




335370 faro, 303000 1 

■2 

fafan 

ofaoi . 





3fa*T 313 fay, offalT 1 

3 

OOROfT 

. cfTOI 

004 faTT o fa o iftsidO, fafOTO fao, ^T3T 1 

.4 

oSomo 

, O0>JT 

Am fo^ ^'fafaoo oRTSTirffair foffay, 




oTfa oor faro fauro, oorar i 

5 

OTTI 

, OFTTOO 

C 

^3703 orffaro rfa faq^ 3310- 




TOT 1 

6 

3373TOOT 

■y 

. orofa 

4 oi TOifaooo 030 farfao ftror, £fifa fay i 

7 

ifR; . 

. OOTOfaC 

003 ?4faT, fa- 4, S'fafaoor (TTff? 1 

8 

331313 

. farffan |r 

ooo orror fo^o ng, farffao ^y i 



(TTOTfafafatr) 


9 

TTfaTO’JT 

. TTOOOT 

ooo far ww (srnrfa-) ffafay, 




4faT£3 fao i 

10 

orrrofa 

. O033TT3 . 330 facOOO 0T33 OOTlfawO fafOTT, 


3 fa TOT, fa o fa o Tfa I 


[HW OTo 602( 1 4W703>3o mfa] 


4272 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part TI— 


S.O. 3050.- — I n exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ State 
insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of the Government 0 
India i n the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 4909 dated the 4th December, 1969. The Central Government, having 
regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4) of the Scheduled hereto annexed 
in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule in the State of Mysore in which the provi- 
sions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act arc not in force, hereby exempts the said factories 
from the piymcnt of employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year from the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
notification or untilthe enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those area 
whichever is earlier. 


Schedule 


SI. Name of the District 
No. 

Name of the Area 

Name of the Factory 

I 2 

3 

4 

1. Bangalore 

• Ramnagaram 

M/s. Mysore Aluminium (Private 
Limited, Industrial Estate. 

2 . Belgaum 

• Kittur 

Soundathi • 

Sub-Station, Mysore State Electri- 
city Board. 

M/s. Workshop and Maintenance 
Sub-Division M.D.S. Colony 

3. Bijapur 

• Bijapur 

M/s. J os hi Ferrous Foundry and 
Workshop, Industrial Estate. 

4. Gulbarga 

■ Kapnoor 

M/s. Spun Pipe and Construction 
Company India Limited, Bill- 
gundi Building, Gunj Road. 

5. Hassan 

■ Holcnarasipur 

M/s. Indira Match Industries, 3rd 
Jain Street. 

6. Kolar 

• Kolar • • • • 

M/s. Ram Krishna Tile Works f 
Malur. 

7. Mysore 

• Chamarajanagar ■ 

M/s. S.P.S. Industries, Galipur 
Road, 


[No. F. S-38014/3/71/HI] 


VTo WTo 3050 . — Trm EfsfBEE, 1948 ( 1948 EE 34) 
SfTTT 7 3-E 5 ITT EETT Elf^FcPTf ET EETE EEFt §n 5 ^ rite TOR % EE, fpEETT 
EETEE (NE Tt^TETT faTEFT) E?V Eo E5T 0 STTo 4909 cliyWs 4 fsEUET, 

1 9 8 9 % EiE if %nfVE 8 EFT < XE% 4'-lTEi£ ETJPf^t % 4d *-E ( 4 ) E (qfufc'xi EEUsTTEf tpi 

EEE % FU-E ( 3 ) *j fd fd P? '-'4 E1JE 7F7E % E, pETTE EEE EfljfEEE % EEEPT 

4E\T 5 % EEE^ E^tI Eft ^ , EEfHlfE ETt KEPT 5i fE EW ETrETFf EEF WpffBEE 

% EOTTE 5E % ETftE EEEfEiE fEEnpF % fEEPE ePeFTE % FETE it, FEE EftfTjEET t 
f q fdf-p T; EEfE E?f EETfVT E?J FTTl^ % EE E ?1 EEfE % fEE[ ET FE FET % Pett EW 5 FF 

ft; EEE EfE^TEE % EKETE 5 EEEEJ EE sfaf if ETtT EYrY ft 5T1%, Et wt Ef% ft, 
ITE73T7T VZ Eff | I 


Sr.c. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SR A VAN A 30, 1893 4273 - 





RdRRl 

’W 

WT 

fRR4RRTR 

! ,Td TT RTR 

,j h T IR TT RTR 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

1 


TTRRRTR 

■ frR Rrz ^tftfRRR('ft) us%rr 

RiER 1 

2 

4cdl iR 

fTTT 

RtlTRl 

. *HT-3RRR, R^T TRR fRRR Rft 1 
. RRR R^RTR tRS- JrfeRRT RR-fRftRR, t[R 0 
Rio tTR 0 ^TRt^fr | 

3 

rNtjc 

rIrtjt 

rrR rTrV ttr Tnvfr rvt rtrtr, fsffjRR 

SR? 1 

4 

5 

FRRR? 

?RR 

. 3RRT 

Cv 

, rflRdTRl'l/ 

. RRR (rr RT^R ntry rr^rfIR ;f 0 sfalRT 
foifddR, fdRISfr fdlVlso, RR <1-! 1 
. RRR f fRRT RR ^JRFcftR, R# ^R | 

6 

'ftrit , 

«F1HR 

. RR# TlR^'R SLR R#, RIRR | 

7 

R^T 

. RRURRRT 

. #R# RRodloORo RtffRr fur i 


[*To CTTo ITRo380l4( 3)/7 1-^oWTfo] 

S.O 3051— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1848), and in continuation of the no™- 
flcation of the Government of Iindia in the Ministry of Labour, Employment m.u, 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No S O 3009 dated 
the 23rd October, 1970 the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
namely Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertakings Bus Garage 
at Wadala, Bombay in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of 
the said Act are in force, hereby .exempts the said factory from the payment of 
the employer s special contribute leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 10th June, 1971 upto and 
inclusive of the 9th June, 1972. p 


[No. F. 6Ql(7)/70-HI,l 

vio wio 3051 — TRRTfl tejr Rfa-faRR, 1943 (1948 rt 34) 

^ 7 3-V JUT 9RR 5lf%RRr VT RRtR T7.R fir RtT R] TFT R7R,R % SIR, ftRRTT Rpr 

Idriv RdMo & rFr^rri rwtt 0 rto 3609 drChj 23 

1 970 sp w if %R?lR RTT.R qft if, fRRi( R4d Rfaft RR ^ RSRR 4 tfly 5 

% srr f, rtsrt Jr *tttr HRirf rpR f Ro^tJfRR rr tUtr 

^ # RRfwfw TTt StTR- ir fTT RRR TT7RT3' RR R*iR RfkfRRR % WERTR 

5*^ ^ f%RR fttfiRST-RfR^TR % Ri^TK *( 2 9 *pT, 1 9 7 1 Jr 2 8 RR, 1972 

^ feR fft RftRfRR f., IfT sftr RR ft SFIRTRfsj % fRIT nfRTTTT VT §Rf | | 


[RSTTtfRo 60 1 ( 7)/7C-^’RoRTf o], 



4274 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Past II— 


S.O. 305?, — in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Emplo yees’ State 
-surance Act, 1948(34011948), and in continuation of the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. ty8 dated the rfith December, 1970 the Central Government, having 
Tegard to the location of the factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed 
in areas specified in column(3)of the said Schedule in the State of Bihar in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factories from 
the payment of employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year from Che date of expiry of the period specified in the said notification 
or until the enforcement of provisions of ChapterV of the said Act in thoie areas, which ever 
is earlier. 


Schedule 


Si. Name of District 

No. 

Name of Area 

Name of the factory 

(G (2) 

(3) 

(4) 

i. Bhagalpur ■ 

* Barahgama • 

• Messrs Ajanta Stone WorkH at 
Barahgama, Amarpur. 


Sultangan) • 

• Messrs Bihar Khadi Gramodhog 
Sang, Saranjan Karayalaya. 

2. Champaran . 

■ Sagauli ■ 

• Messrs Bajrang Saw Mill, Post 
Sagauli. 

3. Dhanbad 

• Govindpur • 

■ Messrs Laxml Steel Industrie# Post 
Office Govindpur, 


Mohaud 

• Messrs Bihar Cement Products. 

4, Hazaribagh ■ 

• Hirodih 

■ Messrs Gayday Iron Steel Com- 
pany Limted, Post Office 

Hirodih. 

5. Mohghyr 

■ Sheikhpura' • 

• Messrs Chandi Birdaban Stone 
Works, Station Road. 

6 . Patna • 

■ Bikram 

■ Messrs Foot Wear Factory, Post 
Office Bikram, 


Biharsharif ■ 

• Messrs Vividh Engineering Works. 

7. Shahbad 

■ Mohania 

- Messrs Agarwal and Co. 


[No, FS-38oi7(i)/7i-HI] 


ffTo WD30 52. — FRFrftTTFr iffaT FfafaTF, 1948 ( 1948 FT 34) 

HTO 7 3-^ JTVT Vlfad'ih' FT TUftF FTtT gtt gfh; FTOT FfFR % <5TF, TDBIK sflT 
tttw wx\-m (^tt sfK Ttw* fa*rnr) Fft *wtt Fto srro iss, mrter 10 

ftRPRP;, 1 97 0 % Jr fnRfK ( 4) faftfosr 

FTFsrFTt Ft ^FI F^<t % FTRT ( 3) Jf fSffR % $Jr £sff FT, frraJf 3FT 

wfsrfwr % srszrw 4 sfk 5 % ^ Ft stft Jr tut jjf 

FP 7 TH F t 3 FT FfalWT % FSFnT 5-F % FVfa fFFDfF % T^TfoftT faffa FATIN' % 
’fp.rrv it, ^ft Jr fifTfe vifv ft inrrfar Ft TTfrer Jt vf itf ft sftr HTfa 

% ftpr 4T tfT ?TF % fact FT TTF fF FFT FWTTT % F6TET 5 % 3TFST 3T $Ft Jt FfF 
ft FT%, 'sft FT If T ft, It^KT I I 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30. 1893 4275 


4 c\ 


fTT TT TFT 

*FT TFT 

ttfttt TT TFT 

( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

1 

'TFF’PJF 

, TPTtFFTI 

. TTT# 3TJTTTT TTtT T-T#, TTTT^TTT, SFTTJT 



TJ$TTTT'5f 

. TTFT frfR tgrfr TFOTFr TV, TTTT TFTfvFT 

2 

TOTTT 

. SFlFft 

. TTT TTTT Iff frT, TFT TFfaft 

3 


. Ttfrrrjr 

. TTFf tOTTFC TtfriTJ ( 



*ftjpTT 

. TTlf PTSTT 

4 



. ITPITTf 




rfUTfittf 

5 


. srarrrr 

. TTlf fTCTTlT ?TtT TT# FFtt tFt 

6 

TOT . 

. faTT 

. 3TVTVT frW 




. TTT fvftl ^frfTVfUT Wf 

7 

Vlltjuiid 

. Ri?fTTT 

. ^TT STflTTvT Ttttjf 4 ] a 


[TOTFTN trffo-38 0 1 7 ( 1 )jl l/t^osrrf > ] 


S.o, 3053 : — In exercise of tlic powers conferred by section 73 F of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948) , and in continuation of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Reba'iilintion (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 4128 dated the 29th Septemebr, 1969 the Central Government having 
regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed in 
areas speclficcd in column (3) of the said Schcudle in the State of Tamil Nadu in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the asid fac- 
tories from the payment of employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act for a further period of one year from the date of expiry of the period specified in the 
said notification or until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those 
areas, whichever is earlier. 

Schedule 


SI. 

N°. 

Name of District 

Name of Area 

Name of the factory 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

I. 

Chinglcput • 

• Alichivakkam 

Lakshmi Paper and Board Mills, 
Sholavaram. 

2. 

Salam ■ 

■ Ariyagoundunpatti 

Sriman Naravana Sago Factory, 
Namagiri Pettaie (Via). 



Ayilpatti 

Javalakshmi Eago Factoiy Altur 
Main Road. 



Chinfiakakkavtri ■ 

Dhafialakshmi Vilas Sago Factory 
Namagiripet. 


4276 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [P\RT H— 

(I) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 

Namagiripet • ■ Sri MauickaVlnayagir Sago Factor 

S.F. 18/3, Pudupatti Road. 

R. Pudupatti • ■ Shri Shammuga Sago Factory 

Namagiri Pettai (Via), RaBipuram 
Taluk. 

Singalandapuram ■ • Prakasam Sago Factory Thoppa- 

patti Ro a d, Raahipuram Taluk. 

Tho Jeddarpalayam ■ (1) ShriLakahmi Vilas Sago Factory 

Namgiri Pet, 

(2) Sri Scngottaiah Sago Factory 
Namagir Pet (Via) Rashipuram 
Taluk. 

[No. F. S-38oi7(i3)/7i-Hi] 

W!To(no 3053.-Rpftplft TTPT artm 3Tfaftpl«T, 1 9 4 8 ( 1948 fir 34 ) qft STRI 
7 3 T 5 TTT tpTrT wfTdftt TT TPTF RTrft fft srk TTTcT TH.RTTT %sru, fUPTTT ftU JTtUt RCTTHT 
(ispl ftftr fur Try fVpPT ) 3ft HTfsr^RT ft^TT RPo 5TTo 128 dpftN 29 fftcHWT, 1969 

% rpt ft fnft stf^ft % ( 4) ft fftfftftcp 'puntri 3ft trt 

sifj^ft % uni ( 3) ft dpR^HTs^m % ftp waft ft, Unrft tpt Rftftftm % 

4 ’fU 5 % TT5FET TUT T^t f, 'Spjrfftrfft ftt KPTT ft TTTft §TT t3T=T RTTUFlft Tt TFT pfa- 
fftqpp % VOTUT 5-RT % tP-ftP TfUffttr ffttfUW % ffftTTf'PRTP % ¥KTT ft, TTd ’TftPfTPT 
ftfTfftfe?rTfft^HtTTftT3ftTrdTrft^Tft^^U%fftTTtrrtTTTT:% fftft 5UT cpr 
fft T3T srfftffttrT % ttottp 5 % tfppj tp suit ft htth pft ft smt, fti ftt ft, PTf- 
gnt w ftftt ^ : 

RvfT Up? «FI TUT RT TUT RTWTft RTT TUT 

ftnrT 

(1) (2) (3) (4) 


1 rUM'i'i nfftfttPRRFr 

2 tpir ^rfUfrftUT^Tifr 

■RS'TPTTt 

fTTTlRrUUfpftft 

HTtrfftftftr 

O^-Jt 


WSftt TIT PT fttf fppp, Vl'NlTTR : 

ftftFTTTTTTP RTTt 'fttRTft, TTpfftft 
R.ff (TRT) 

wrwepft Tpft TFPfr, ftp Tp? : 

TTPPfftt fftPTRT PPTt TTFT- 

fftftft? : 

ftft RfpRT fpPpfpfT FTPt ft^ft, pp o 
TF 0 1 8/ 3, JTRft ftp : 
ftft Tpujpr ptpI TTPft, pmfftft 
Ttff (pmr), Tfthpir pt?jr 7 : 


Sec, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4277 

(j) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) ( 4 ) 



s 


unit fazfr, 

Tsfpj-UI rTTH^' : 

( 1 ) sft hwY fasrm Hurt 

TWroftTcT : 

(2) *ft HEfT 

^Urftlft'tE (THE) UlfrpOT W : 


[fTSTT T^Tio tTfl’o-38017( 1 3 )/ 7-1^ <*TTf °] 

S.O. 3054— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees, 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S.O, 2263, dated the 3iBt May, 1969 the Central 
Government, having regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4) of the 
Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule in the 
State of Mysore in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act arc not in 
force, hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of employer’s special con- 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year from 
the date of expiry of the period specified in the said notification or untilthe enforcement of 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier. 

Schedule 


SI- 

No. 

Name of the District 

Name of Area 

Name of the Factory 

I 

2 

3 

4 

I. 

Bangalore • 

■ Kumbalagodu 

Kon a nakunte 

Hoskote 

■ Associated Drug Company Limit- 
ed, Chemical Division. 

Best & Company Limited 7th Mile 
Kanakapura Road. 

• R.C.C. Poles Manufacturing Centre, 
Mysore State Electrcity Board. 

2. 

Bell ary 

• Paradavanahalii 

■ Bellary Water Works, Via Maka 
Post. 

3. 

Dbarwar 

■ Ron 

Hireherur 

Shirahatti 

■ Mysore State Road Transport 

Corporation, Depot Workshop. 

■ Power House, Mysore State Elec- 

tricity Board. 

■ Power House, Mysore State Elec- 

tricity Board. 

4. 

Hassan- 

■ Arsiker 

• Karnataka Cori Products, B.H. 
Road. 

5- 

Kolar ■ 

• Kolar • 

• R.C. C. Poles Manufacturing Centre, 
Mysore State Electricity Board. 

6. 

Mysore 

• Yewala 

• Shanker Match Industries. 

7- 

Mandya 

• Pandavapura- 

• The Pandavapura Taluk Agricul- 
ture Productivity Co-operative 
Marketing Societies. 

8. 

South Kanara 

Suratkal 

Gangali 

Kallianpur 

Karkala 

Seven Seas fisheries, Hospet 
Village. 

Vinayak Saw Mills. 

Bharat Tile Company Shiralli,, 
Puttur Post Office. 

■ Sri Bhavanti Wood Works. 

9- 

Shimoga 

■ Hulikal 

Ambika Tile W’orks, Hosnag 
Taluk. 


(No. F- SO-38014 3/71-H1)! 







427 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II— 


TTo XTT° 3054. — EfET EfyfEEE, 1948 (l948TT 34)#aTU 
73E 5PT E4rT ^rf^cT=ff TT TTET Tk gJ ?f|T ETJE ET-TR % «UT, T/t^ER srk TEEfE 
EEE44 («HT ^TkETTZf^TFl) xft E%gEET E o TToETo 2263,ETfP4 31 Ef, 1969 

T^te e % 4 fkr trttj rt?t eere srggEl % ree ( 4) if fafafre ttejett tV ew 

treet % ure ( 3 ( if 4gr etse % ee tfaff £r, Pette ett xrfsrfaEE % erie 

4 Ek 5 T eeeet Egf % EEfj«rf>T tT sete it 734 ^ gg eet tp^r xft ett EfarPrEE 

% ESETE 5 -T % xnflE E^EfufR fEETET ^ EfEETE % ERTE %, 3 W E%g 4 ET E 
faf-lfeR STEfa TT EETpE TT ERIE % qT 4$ Eft EEfa % fkrcr If! E4 ET T EE ET fa 

tee ^rfsrfrm % sestet 5 % 3W ee &$ff eexe Egfgft ete, e> et tee gft, gEgERT 


f: ^ t 1 



E?E 

#0 

f^T ^T •THT 

W5T TT ETE 

TRUTTE TT TUT 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1 

*rEEk 

'jREHTEtX 

gftfatt 

rriftfF'T^ XE To fafaxx, xHeTE 

faxfaE, ’for t tj To faftfarr, 
7«rr *ffa, TTEirgjj xm i 
ero li'to ttTo ere ^TTEfaE 
ifaR, ^gr jt^e fftxrE eW 1 

2 

%P3Tf[ 

ErXIEErfaft 

^7ETTft etr eee, JPTUTl EmfalXI 1 

-3 

y Kq 1 s 

JUT 

faXTEE 

faJTgjft 

tfgr. ttse ttxt qfr.4gE Pete, fan 
ETETE 1 

ETET THEE. 4gr JTET fwX <>8 I 
ETET glEE, %E JT^ fagE Efti 1 

-4 

gEE 

ETEfaJ! 

ERPT xfttftElSERT, 4ft o gEo Tfa | 

5 

ETIeR 

TIER 

etjo ttto eT° eRe ERTurkE erj, 
Egr jjje Pe^e 4k i 

6 


JmrurT 

ETT E4 1 

7 

etxet 

TixEgu 

fr 'TtXEgJ.T ETET gfE^ EtEfefkt 


Efto SEE* Efaffa 4 'JR 4 1 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 427^ 


2 3 

4 

8 TITOV VVT7T gTTVfTO 

TO vYto fYsifTTO, fHte TTTTO 1 

wMr 

fdTTTV TOT fWTT I 


TKd ii^rT Vo fwrnvfl, totto srYvr,. 
TtoTTo 1 

TTTM 

«fr WHY fS VdY 1 

9 fwffTTT jfTOFnT 

[ srfwiVT v#, fNTTTOT YYir r 


[To tTTo — 3801 4 ( 3 )/ 71— 0 5TT$o] 

S.O. 3055, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re- 
habilitation (Department of Labour an Employment) No. S.O. 06. dated the 16th 
December, 1970 the Central Government having regard to the location of the- 
Cottage Industries and Textile Training Institute, Nagpur in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in forco, hereby exempts 
the said factory from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect 
from the 2nd June, 1971 upto and inclusive of the 1st June, 1972, 

[No. F.0O1(19)/7O-HI.] 

VU WTo 3055. — qufopft 7 T"h ftTT Tfafaw, 1948 ( 1948 VT 34) dY £TPT 

73 ^ tut vto wf^TTi vr trcfrrr wY fu tht *rvr % w, tUpitt jwfr 

VVTW (w tYt TDTTTT faffTh) vY srfclTTWT TOTT TI0TT0 G6 , TTYYt 1 6 fTOfTT, 

1 9 7 0 % W it YvfiT TTTTTT WET VfiYj uU YwCTTO ffw 

RTTJ7; dY hit W i T, faffir TVT TfsrfdW % WW 4 sftT 5 % WI T-frl {jjj, wf«rfY 
VT SIR if f TTT VRmY VT TVT wfElfRW % WW 5-V % WTd TW^tYv 
fwtRV % fTitT urf*PITV % TTUT % 2 R, 1 97 1 % 1 TOT, 1 9 72 TV front d? fed YY 
Tfl^fviv iTtTf d"f Vi V'MIdfa % fw T^gllT VZ YdY | I 

[To ipEo 60 1( 19)/7 CMT^oTT§o]i 

S.O. 3056. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’' 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notification, 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re- 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 383, dated the 
13th January, 1971. the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
Laundry Plant at the Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur, in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts 
th e said laundry from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable- 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect 
from the 5th August, 1971 upto and Inclusive of the 4th August. 1972. 

(File No. 601 (23) 1 70-HI) 

Vlo *IT° 3056 — VhM'lfT TIW sffarT vfvfWT, 1948 ( 1948 VI 34) dY STITT 
7 3=? iTTTSmr VlfYddY vrWETVT^gTT sftv TTTrf TTTOT TOT, fKfiTT iflT ijwfa 
WTTOT (TOT ■ffYrTtWTTfaWT) vY Tfn^WT TP3TT VTo HT° 38 3, 1 3 TOTT^t, 

1971 t TORT SrfHfffTOT % WTET 4 sftr 5 & TOTJFST 



4280 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


sr^fr wtont, Jr NNift '^rro Tt str if 

W?T |TT t3W TR<3H Tt "3TA SlfgftRlT % WRR 5-T % otr F^RtfR fwr 
ftjT>3pp-^f3TCTT % «^TT % 5«RTff, 1971 % 4 WRd, 1 9 7 2 fl»F faiKt W£_ faff "4Y Rf«#M 
IT«P sftr ^ SRfa % farr ttfl^ITT TO ^ft | I 

[ITW Rfio 60l(23)/70-P’5T‘>?r^o] 

S.O. 3057. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government having regrd 
to the location of the factory namely; Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited, 
Nnngal Unit Naya Nangal (Punjab) in an area in which the provisions of Cha- 
pters TV and V of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factory 
'rom the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act for a period of one year with effect from the date of publica- 
tion of the notification in the official Gazette. 

LNo, F.S-3 80 14(13)771 -HI,] 

3057. — TERoffaT SCftrfjflTO, 1948 ( 1948 3 4) W HTTT 

7 3 ^ tTPT tITfT Frfdffffr ERT 5RR tpiiT IT WR RT 

fSTpRS, fiTTO TffiZ, dm iUET (ertr) ffm vnSTT^ spV Jf, fad*! SrftrfWT 
% stjrr 4 5 ^ ^qwsr sNfrT ?r$f wrfwfff tt rr wr 
srfaffftm % nszrpT 5 -er % msfVff wrwmm fwr frpqfT^r--wpfrTPr % trr <t ir srfiraffdT 
% tflPTRlR TERR Jr SRTlTfTd *?V dTON I** R7 Rt VRRfa % f^tr tTdi^TTr TO I 

[llo infio bRo-3301 4 ( 1 3)/ 7 l-^oRrf o] 

S. O. 3058.-111 exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 F of the Employees’ State 
Insurance Act, R48 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location of 
the factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in column 
(3) of the said Schedule in the State of Orissa in which the provisions of Chapters JV and V of 
tne said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of employers 
special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a periodj of one year from 
the date of publication^!' this notification inthe Official Gazette or until the enforcement of 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier, 

SCHEDULE 


Serial Name of District 

1 c. 

Name of Area 


Name of the factory 

(I) (2) 

(3) 


(4) 

I . Cuttack 

■ Jagatpur 

■ 

• Shri Durga Prasad Board and 
Industries (Private) Limited. 


Jaipur • 


• Ferrochromc plant, (I.D.C. of 
Orissa Limited) Post Office 
Ferrochromc Project, Jaipur 
Ro a d. 

2 . Puri • 

hurda 


• Uatunei Power Loom Weavers' 
Co-operative Society Limited, At 
Post Office Bajpur’Via Khurda. 


[F. No. 602 (T5) 70-HI] 


tfffo Wo 30 58. — EfiiTTRt TER sffaT 1 948 ( 1948 4TT 34) ffit ETRT 

7 3*1 ITTT 5RR nrfwff T1 5RR 4fR gV TRR IHRTT SflTl tTTPSra % W*T ( 4 ) 

if f^fTO RtRJRT wt ter %, tw sr^t % rrw ( 3 ) if iWrv-r stef if 

srftrf^m % WRR 4 ?ffc 5 % TRR 5f^?T tRj f , RfffTRfff WA RET if Wfi gE TTT 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4281 


vi mY Yt svr srftrftwr % wartT s-v % wfYf fYifum vfrvR % 

tftrt to" vfurodT % ftt'toY’t ttwrt if Tvifro Yur YY % or q-cf YY mfa % 
fHTT JIT ITT ?rv % fair WT fY TUT VfYfYTV % WVPT 5 % V'Un’ST V-T UTT if T^TT Tfff 

?fr 3 Tlt, Yt vY q^T ^Y, TTJfr^gTTT Yff I I 

v n^-qY 


TV fY% vr •THT WT vr VST VRSTlY vr tht 

vwr 


1 2 


3 


4 


1 V2V 


2 jcV 


VTOTO «ft |IT? WfT YlY r™7 f<>?e£kr 

(stttYt) krfYfr I 

dW'lTilR '-Hid ( J3T^V G T ®RT TTTh° ®Y° 
fufarnr) YnYlv sfYsftr, wtjt 
YtV 1 

jfr sturY irar ^ Ym YT-vYrYfeT 

VTRTJlYt fHfHdar, STWTfiT TRJT 
TTHTO Jirt I 

[TOT Tfo 602(lS)/70-1T^o!TriCo] 


S.O. 3059. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by section 73F ol the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O, 505, dated the 
13th January, 1971 the Central Government having regard to the location ol the 
Vaccine Institute, Nagpur, in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and 
V of the said Act are in force hereby exempts the said institute from the pay- 
ment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 4th September, 
1971 upto and inclusive of the 3rd September, 1972. 

[No, F.601 (43)/70-HL] 

VT° Wo 3059- — vYdTfT TTOT YYRT vfMYTV, 1948 ( 1948 Vr 34) Yt STITT 
7 3V5m5TTu?rfqwfqTw Yk vut trvh Y -tv, furoT t ttVt g/TYrv wtut 

(wr stYt tYwttt ffrouT) Yt nftr^wrr vstt vr°w° 5 os, toYst 1 3 wtiY, 1 97 1 % 
tv if YYYr vurnr TWk vrvjT Yt YY A , kraif btt ^firfYiR % vwpt 

4 wk 5 Y vrwst TffT wrfkrfa Yt bvrv if vs f g-vr f kYavr Yt ttt ’-qfWim 

V W-VUT 5-V % WrYv BVTTfUfTJT faYkrT % fYlPT vfiTTPT Y TO ft 4 fflrPVT, 19 71 
% 3 IwVT 1972 rm kirk Vtj fkT vY TfYrrfYlTT TTSf. Yk TT Yt VTHRfer Y fV<T 
^(TT3KT 733 YYt | I 


[tfo dTr 601 ( 43)/70-T^oWt 0 ] 



4282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


S.O. 3860. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1048 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 502 dated the 
13th January, 1971 the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
factory, namely, iSharavathy Hydro Electric Generating Station in Jog in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, here- 
by exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer’s special contri- 
bution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 30th August, 1971 upto and inclusive of the 29th August,. 
1972 

[No. F. 601I40I70-HI.] 

womo’joflo — uwr sffar nWritr, 1948 (1948 «f 34) *tfY urn 

73*r anm JPTW NpFTRI <FT RR>T $77% grr sftr RTTR RRFIR % J 5TH‘, JRdfR 

RRFRR ( nr rYt tYrrtc (rrtr) $CY RfagRRi rot ipr^o 502 mftsr 1 3 RRarft, 

1 97 1 % rr r r^Yr trorn: rYr Iott rottY ?r?|Y f£rr rotf 

«Fn«U% Tiudr N5T R ; fRRtf RUT RfvfOTT % ROTR 4 rYt 5 % RTRRT RR'R ft, RRffRfd 
tY OTR ir TNT ^ n ROT $JTSn% $fY RRclVfHfRRR % ROTR 5-R % R%YR RRRT^fYj fRRR 
fRRtRT RfRRTR % ROTR R 30 RROT, 1971% 29 RR^T, 1972 R$T fRR% Rf fOT 
RY RftRfRR b,$7 rYr Rtf RITRIRfsT % f%t[ ^ffY ?. I 


[ROT RTTo 601 (40) 70-tTReRlfo] 

S. O. 3061 — In exercise of th v er: conferred by section 73 [ F 1 of ihe. 

Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 o 1 n 48), the Central Government, having regard to 
the location of the factories specified in coiumn(4)oftheSchedulehereto annexed in areas specified 
in column (3) ot the said Schedule in the State ot Andhra Pradesh in which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in fotcc, hereby exempts the said factories fir om the pay- 
ment of employers special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act fora period of 
one veat from die date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette or until the enforce- 
ment of provisions ot Chapter V of the said Act in those areas, whichever is earlier. 

SCHEDULE 


Serial 

No. 

CD 

Name ol District 

(2) 

Name of Area 

(3) 

Name of die factory 

(4) 

I. 

Medak 

Patancheru 

1. Messrs National Metal Industries. 

2. Messrs Polyam Packages (Private) 
Limited. 

3. Messrs Stronghold Industries. 

.4, Messrs SaslarMclleables Private Limited. 

2. 

Visakhapatnam 

Sileru 

Messrs Workshop and Heavy Earth Moving 
Machinery. 


[No. F. 6/19/69-HI] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


USToWTo 306 1. — tr^snfY RIOT rYri RfafdRR, 1948 ( 1948 OT 34) $% RTO 
7 3R 5TTI RRH VlfOTRI OT RRYr $77% %fiflR RROTR RRTRS 5 F^[rY % OTW ( 4 ) 
% fafafttR RTOTRt RfV RFU TOT %, 7fT RR^EfY 4? OT*R ( 3) % fRfd'ftsff 
fRR% ROT RfsrfRRR % ROTR 4 RYR 5 % RRROT R^TT RsfY RRIYrTR $% OTR % R^% 
gir ROT OTW 1RT $7% 3OT RftlfRRR % ROTR 5-$7 % REtYR SOTT^'ifYR fRRR PdROW 
NfR^lR % ROTR % 1[R RftJ^RRT % RTRotYR fl'ffi % ROTftlR ^Y% 4% OTRYu % ^ 

RRfR % fRR RT RR ROT % f%TT RR ROT f$r ROT RftrfRRR % ROTR 5 S? RRROT RR STRf% 
RRR uifYRT RT%, RY RY 9#T £[, ITdTgTRT ^^fY £ I 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4283 




RSR 

ROT 

fa*m?rrR 

rir 

m RFR 

( 1 ) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

(0 

1. 



1. item i 

| 

3- ’biPTflv? 24:^1? I 

4. iUTtf RTHSPC RfaRSffiR RTW 
f^Rra 1 

2 . 

fwwmTRR' 


RR*f ^-rf-tTriq- q^T RfRR 

RTflRft 1 


[W° ( 1 / 19 / 69 - 0 ?° 

fT f(V?, L'fa f I 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi , the 21st July 1971 

S. O.3061. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 15 of the Contract Labour (Regula- 
tion and Abolition) Act, 1970 (37 of 1970), the Central Government hereby nominates the effk era 
mentioned in column (2) of the Schedulebclowtobeappellatcofficersforthcavtasspecified respec- 
tively against them in the corresponding entries in column (3) of the said Schedule. 

■S CHE PULE 


SI. Officers Area 

No. 


(1) 


(2) 


(3) 


1. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Ajmer. 

2. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Asansol. 

3. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central!, 

Bhubaneswar, 

4. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Bombay. 


The States of Rajasthan and Gujrat. 


Civil Districts of Burdwan, Bankura, Bir- 
bhumand Purulia in West Bengal. 

The State of Orissa. 


The State of Maharashtra and Union Terri- 
tories of Goa, Daman and Din, Dadra 
and Nagar Havcli. 


4284 the GAZETTE OF. INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SR A VAN A 30, 1893 TPart 71— 


(I) (2) (3) 


5. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The States of West Bengal (excluding the 

Calcutta. Civil Districts of Burdwan, Ba nkura, 

Birbhum and Puruiia), Assam, Maghalaya, 
Nagaland and Union Territories of Mani- 
pur, Tripura and Andaman and Nicobar 
Islands and the NEFA. 

6. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The State of Bihar. 

Dhanbad. 

7. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The States of Andhra Pradesh and Mysore. 

Hyderabad. 

8. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The State of Madhya Pradesh. 

Jabalpur. 

9. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The States of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Hima- 

Kanpur. chal Pradesh, Haryana Jammu & 

Kashmir and the Union terrotries of 
Chandigarh and Delhi. 

10. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The States of TamilNaduand Keralaand the 

Madras. Union territories of Pondicherry, Laccadive, 

Mlnicoy and Amlndivi Islands. 


[No. M. i8on(4)/7I-LW.I./I/Cont./III] 
ftp#, 21 SJeTTf, 1971 

rk> uRo fao 3062 . — sjrfip?; *rk bwttb) tiM-m, 19 70 

(1970 w 37) qft am 15 sin wf srfapff spfPT btftt R fPi im 

( 2) Jr 4 f*r?r sfawifafr bwI w 

( 3) Jr cT^rufV srfafetrr r fafafa'M tJtfr % ftp* spfrsj sriwft btcIeIw Trfi f, \ 


VO C\ 


!Wif» 



(1) 

(2) 

(a) 


1. «nr !R!T^r , sFsrJrr . tt^fi *tk ’Twutr tehti 

2. arr^ftrr , ttuhtTt . Jr 'kt«th, srtjjfT, aftrgR 

*rk 5^)w % ftrfavr far% i 

3. i n etttt (%^), vrqJrTT 1 ; . ttfi 1 

4. RT^ftPFtriTsiTTw i . test mrr ePtt, srh: 

5141 BI<k R*T tiwt sfa I 




•Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4285 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


5. srrfrfVre? «r (kifk ) , 


6. nT'rfsru vm >TEUET ( Wfrf ) , ER5TTT 

7. NTT flnjw (%?lfk’) , 

s. srkftrffi sr*r srr^ (kskr ) , 

9. srkfkn ntt srww (%kk) , 

1 0. Tr^fffT'P NTT NTtPTT ( k'ikr ) , RTHT 


srt^AT, jflrrnr ?rk 'jrfkn % 
f^rf^^r faki tit unrTrr) qfswtft 
3TTPT, sum 5fk 'TnTTN'f TTHI t«TT 
TT^kr, faju kk TT?OTT nV 
faffiWlT ^k TUTf? ?k < 1 8TW cWT 
^rTT-g;3ff ifVuT Nf*r^ro| (ffTr) i 

fkfTC TRIT I 

srUET srkl Nk TT^ I 

TTKT srkl TTW I 

ttr srkr, kirr, ?furrirr ?rk Iw^ 
srkr ttri tint NTkr srk fekt 

H*T TTrkTT I 

tTH-ieplIs^TTk *f>’ T 7 T TT j-T TTT TlflNTt, 

vpppkkr, ffRirk ktr Turkrfkt 
ftT TT^JT BN TTTBW5I 1 


[#0 tTJTo 1801l(4)/71.-q5To5^oint')-l/TTTe/TII] 

S, O. jaSj —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
28 of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, 1970 (37 of 1970), the Central Go- 
vernment hereby appoints the officers mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule below to be 
inspectors who shall exercise the powers conferred on inspectors by or under the said Act 
within the local limits of their respective jurisdiction specified in the corresponding entries in 
column (3) of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


S.No. Officers Local Limits 

(1) (2) (3) 


4. 


5- 

6. 


Regional Labour Commissioners (Central), 
New Delhi. 

Assistant Labour Commissioners (Central), (. 

New Delhi. f 

Labour Enforcement Officers (Central), I 
New Delhi. J 

Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Bombay. | 

All Assistant Labour Commissioners ^ 
(Central), in the Bombay Region. [ 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) | 
in the Bombay Region. J 


Whole of India. 


The State of Maharashtra and the Union 
territories of Goa, Daman and Diu, 
Dadra and Nagar Havel i. 


7. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), ~] The States of West Bengal (excluding 
Calcutta. | the Civil Districts of Burdwen, Birbhum, 

3. All Assistant Labour Commissioners Bankura and Purulia); Assam, Meghn- 

(Ccntral) in the Calcutta Region. f laya and Nagaland and the Union Terri. 

9. All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) i lories of Manipur, Tripura and Andu. 

in the Calcutta Reg 011. J man Nicobar Islands and the NEKA. 



4286 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT— 


i 


2 


3 


10 . 


ii. 


12 . 


13. 


14. 

L5- 

16. 


17- 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 'l 
Madras. | 

All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Ccn- L 
tral) in the Madras Region. 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 

In the Madras Region. 

Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Jabalpur. 

All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen- 
tral) in the Jabalpur Region. 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 

In the Jabalpur Region. 

All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) 
in the Jabalpur Region. 

Labour Enforcement Officer (Central) 
Jhansi. 


The States of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and 
the Union Territories of Pondicherry, 
J Laccadive, Minicoy and Aminidevi 
IslandB. 


( The State of Madhya Pradesh. 


18. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 

Kanpur. The States of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, 

19. All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Ccn- Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir and 

tral) in the Kanpur Region. I Himachal Pradesh and the Union 

20. All Labour Enforcement Officer’s (Central) | Territories of Delhi and Chandigarh. 

in the Kanpur Region. I 

21. All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) in 

the Kanpur Region. » J 


23. 

23- 


24 . 


25 . 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Dhanbad. 

All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen- 
tral) in the Dhanbad Region. 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 
in the Dhanbad Region. 

All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) 
in the Dhanbad Region, J 


The State of Bihar. 


26. 


27. 


28. 


29. 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Centra]) 
Hyderabad. 

All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen- 
tral) in the Hyderabad Region . 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 
in the Hyderabad Region. 

All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) in 
the Hyderabad Region. 


The States of Mysore and Andhra Pradesh. 


30. 

31. 


32. 


33- 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) J 
Ajmer. I 

Ail Assistant Labour Commissioners (Ccn- ] 
tral) in the Ajmer Region. C 

All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) f 
in the Ajmer Region. I 

Labour Enforcement Officer (Central) | 
Rati am. J 


The States of Rajasthan and Gujarat. 


34. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Asansol. 

33. All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen- 
tral') in the Asansol Region. 

36. All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) f 

in the Asansol Region. I 

37, All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central), in | 

the Asansol Region, j 


The Civil Districts of Burdwan, Birbhum, 
Bankura and Purulia in the State 
of West Bengal. 



Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4287 

12 3 


38. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) ") 

Bhubaneswar. ( 

39, All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen- I 

tral) in Bhubaneswar Region. f The State of Orissa. 

40 All Labour Enforcement , Officer (Central) j 

in Bhubaneswar Region. J 

[No M-i8on(4)7i-LWI.I/Cont. IV] 

TR f?To 3003 . — rIrR NfRRT (MRRRR -deRKB ) RfRfRRR, 1970 
( 1 970 3R 37 ) Tft urn 28 ^TTSTiTT ( l) ffTTTRTR RfatTRT 4R 5rTTT RTrl %RftR 

^3Ki ri% spy Njgkr % rir ( 2 ) r rIrr NWTTfTn 0\ fT<ruT faRRR 
uuft % 3fr rtt rtrtt % rtr ( 3 ) rnrtrt tM’rrt ?r ^TT^-5trT?fr wfa- 

Trf-rrr T?r wr^fur tflRmr % rctt rw RrtrfRRR % srcr rt rr% NtfFr fRfiaFFT tt 
rttt urftm'f tt rrTr >Rkf i 


wito rur^r rirto 


1 2 3 


1. RTTfsTT m rwr ( %RftR ) , wt 1 

2. Wi'W NRT WIRTR ($Rfk) , T# ftfeefl I 

3. nr rtUt Nfwrfr (Tr-kTR) , r? fTrff 1 

4. RkfRRi NR ETIR^cT , RR^ I 

5. TTf RTR % R*ft RfTRN NR RTRT3 

(WtR) \ 

6. rst# ttr % rri nr Nfsmfy 

(%??ftR) 1 

7. RT%fWNRNrT3R 3wPFrTT I 

8. «MTRT % Riff RRTR3T NR NTRSR 
(%RftR) I 

9. TRTW R^R % R«ft NR R#R NfNTTTy 
(%rt1r) I 

10 . RT^RRNRRBHR (^R), RRTR I 

11. R5TR Sr^RT % R*ft RgTRR NR NfRRR 
(%^R) I 

12. R57R R^R % RRfV NR RR#R NfaRrft 
(%^) I 


^ RRTR RTTR I 

RgTTFg' TEJR RRT RTRT, RRR Nk 
Rfa, RTt TOR RR 

► TT^RNN I 

(rTRIT RTRRR, RlfTT tfk jtfRRT 
% fRRT RT WlR RT) RfiRpft 
RRTR, NRR, RRTRR Nk RTRTtfe 
TFfRWkRjfrjT, f^RTTRkRRRTR 
fRRtRTT flR Rljg RR RSRWR RRT 
RfTT >JRT ?ftRT NfRRTR ( ^RT ) I 

rIrr rtt. ttrr rri irkRfr, 
Y RREIcfTR, fR^flRlR Rk RRkkW 
I SkRRg RR NN I 





4288 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT— 


1 2 


3 


1 3. PFffWT PR PTTTT (ERfTR ) , I 

14. PRRRT % RRt Heim PR R!R«PT 

1 

1 5 . W'T'p p^st $ *nfr pr prrr Rfwrfr 

(%RrTR) I 

16. WT'17 r % RRt Efars PIT fRfreFE 

(%^l) I 

17. PRRE^RPftrETTt (%RftR),fmft 1 


1 3T52T PRR TT^T I 


1 8. PI%fRE PR PfR«RT (E^stR) , EM'U I ~\ RPR P%R, 'T^rm, RfURPT, 3TFIJ pk 

19. TTPHT P*R % R^ft RfTRE PR RRJRT 1 Einfk tfk f^RTPP P%R TF^T RR1 

(%Rfkr) i 1 f^ft Rk; ptfknf rr afor i 

20 . TT T T T P^T % RRl PR PPRR pftpTd [ 

(%RftR) I 

2 1. ittt 7 ; srkr % RRt Ekre pr fp?rpT 

(kifkr) i 


22 . 

23. 


24. 


25. 


pkfRE pr pr^w (%Rfkr) , ppp-p? i 

tPTRTP Pkl % PPt R^TRR PR Ripqp 
(%RftP) I 

RRPTC P^R % RRt PR PR4 r pftlTrm 
(k=#tR) I 

RRPrc pkl % RRt rFrp; PR faftPE 


I fa^TT PTR I 


(k£tR) I 


26. 


27- 


28. 


29. 


pltklE PR PTRET (%^kl) , $47. MK I 
|aTPRre R^r % RRV R^TRE PR PTRRR 
(%RftP) I 

fSPTTPTR PTR % RRt PR PUTT pftmft 
(%RftR) I 

tTURTT Pkl % RRt EfiR3 pp fpftPR 

(kitp) I 


'l 


l A^r. Rk PFP PetR TpJR | 


3 0. PkfW PR PFUKT (k£tp) , PP^T I 

31. P5t%T pkl % RRf PURE PR PTRSR 
(%RftR) I 

3 2. PPRT pkf R RRf PR PRRR pfsTRlfT 
(ksffR) I 

33. PR PR?f R RfPRrd (%^tR), UHIR I 




TRTRTR Pk ^PUR TT»R I 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4289 


1 2 3 


3 4. *PT SmEETfa 

35. ^ sni 

(% 75 fcr) I 

3 6. 'TnFTfftvr T WT STE TT=tT ^rfErTTfl 
(%7STta) I 

3 7. tfHHBH 5T*?T % *r*ft <snr farfSTT 

(%^r) 1 

3 8 . TrtfwT >sr*r wrcuffr ( ) , wwi 

3 9. 3TT6WT 5TT7T % JUft fJ?TTT SHT «TW*cf 
(%^fFr) 1 

40. VT T4TTT T^ir % F*fT «HT Wif3 5rfa*fTft 

(fctfFl) I 


OfUUft TTI^T TTJT *j cftTR, #Gj5, 
37 f?T ?fk p f^Eii % fc# I 

. TEHT | 


[tfo TJTfo 1801 l(4)/71-0^To ^wjo srr^o l/sppsr/d] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21 st July 1971 

S.O. 3064 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of tlie Contract Labour (Regu- 
lation') ana Abolition Act, 1970(37 of 1970), the Central Government hereby appoints the officers 
mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule below, being Gazett'd Officers of Government, 
to be registering officers v ho )hnll exercise the powers conferred on registering officers by 
or under the said Act within the local li nits of their respective jurisdiction specified in the 
corresponding entries of column (3) of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Officers 

Local limits 

I 

2 

3 

1 Assistant 
Ajmer. 

Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Civil districts of Ajmer, Jaipur, Bhilwara 
Sikar, Jhunjhunii, Churu, Gangariagar 
Bikaner, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Jaisalmcr 
Alwar and Pali in the State of Rajasthan. 

2 Assistant 
Kota. 

Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Civil districts of Kota, Bundi, Sawalmadho- 
pur, Tonk, Bharatpur, Jhalawar, Chittor- 
garh, Udaipur, Dingarpur and Banswara in 

the State of Rajasthan. 


3 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Ahmcdabad, Gandhinagar, 
Ahmedabad. Kaira, Baroda, Broach, Surat, Dangs, 

Meshafla, Sabarkantha, Panchmahala, 
Surendra Nagar, Bhgvnagar and Bulsar in 
the State of Gujarat. 



429 1 THE GAZETTE OF TNDTA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30. 1893 [Part II— 


T 


2 


3 


4 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Banaskantha, Kutch, Rajkot, 

Kandla, Amreli, Jamnagarand Junagarh inthe State 

of Gujarat and the civil districts of 
Sirhi Barmcr and Jallore in the State of 
Rajasthan. 

5 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central,), ") Asansol Sub-Division of Burdwan District 

Asansol-I. | and civil district of Purulia in the State 

f> Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), I of West Brngel. 

As„nsol — II | 

7 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), }- Civil district of Burdwan excluding Asansol 

Raniganj-I. [ Sub-Division and civil district of Bankura 

8 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), ] and Birbhum in the State of West 

Raniganj-II. I Bengal. 

9 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Puri. Cuttack, Dhenkanal, 

Bhubaneshwar. Ganjafm, Balasore, Koraput, Kalahandj, 

Bolangir and Baudh-Khondmals in the 
State of Orissa. 


io Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, 
Rourkela. Sambalpur and Sundargarh in the State of 

Orissa. 


11 Assistant Li hour Commissjoi er (Central)"] C ivil districts of Greater Bombay, Than'’, 

Bombay-I. ] Dhulia, Nasik, Kolaba, Poona, Ahmed- 

[ nigar, Sholapur, Satara, Osmanabad 

1 2 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), f Sangli, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Parbhani, 

Bombay-II. j Nandee Bhir,Akola,Buldanaa n d Raipura 

J in the State of Mahrashtra and the Union 
Territories of Dadra and Nagar Havcli. 


13 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Nagpur. 


14 


is 


17 


Assitant Lahour Commissioner (Central), 
Sambhaji. 


Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),") 
Calcutta-I. 

\5,istant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Calcutta-II. 


Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), | 
Calcutta-Ill. I 

J 


Civil district s of Nagpur, Charda Wardha 

Amravati, Yeotmal and Bhandara in the 
State of Maharashtra. 

Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu and 
Civil districts of Ratnpgiri ard Kohlapur 
in the State of Maharashtra, 

Civi) districts of Calcutta, Howrah, Hooghlyi 
24 Parganas, Midnapur, Murshidabad, 
Nidia, Mildft,West Dinijpur, Jalpaigur 
Darjeeling and Cooch Behar inthe State of 
West Bengal and the Union territory of 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 


Assistant Labour Commissioner 
Gauhati. 


(Central), All civil districts in the States of Assam, 
Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union terri- 
tories of Manipur and Tripura and the 
North East Frontier Agency. 


n) Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),") 

Dhanbad-I. ) 

2 i Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), I 
Dhanbad-II. 

j Civil districts of Dbanbad in the State of 
2T Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Y Bihar. 

Dhanbad-Ill, j 

22 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), | 

Dhanbad-IV. I 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 20, 1893 4291 


1 


2 


3 


23 Assistant Labour Cannissioner (Central), 

Haziribhagh, 

24 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 

Patna. 


25 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central); 

Chaibasa. 

26 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 1 

Hyderabad-I. 

27 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Hyderabad-II. 

I 

J 

38 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Vijayawada. 


29 Assistant Labour Commissioner 
Visakhapatnam. 


30 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Bangalore. 


31 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Bellary. 


32 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central). 
Jabalpur. 


Civil districts of HfiZarib: gh, Palamau and 
Ranchi in the State of Bihar. 

Civil districts of Pain a, Shahabad, Gaya, 
Kitihar, Muzuffarpur, Darbhanga, Moti- 
hiri, S Bursa, Saran, Monghyr, Purnea, 
Bhagalpur and Santhnl Parganas in the 
Stale of Bihar. 

1 Civil district of Singhbhum in the State of 
Bihar. 

Civil districts of Gulbarga and Bihar in the 
I State of Mysore and the civil districts 
of Hyderabad, Nizamahad, Nalgonda, 
Mahbubnagar, Medak, Karimnagar, 
Adilabad, Warangal and Kurnool in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh. 


Civil districts of Krishna, West Godavari 
Guntur, Ongole, Nellorc and Khammam 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 


Civil districts of Bangalore, Kolar, Mysore 
Mandya, Tumkur, Coorg, Hasan, Shimoga, 
South Kanara, Chitradurga a n d Chickman- 
gulur in the State of Mysore and Chittor 
district in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Bellary, North Kanara, 
Raichur, Bijapur, Dherwar and Bclgaum 
in the State of Mysore and Anantpur and 
Cuddapah in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Jabalpur, Damoh, Saugor, 
Chatarpur, Tikamgarh, Satna, Panna and 
Narasimhapur in the State of Madhya 
Pradesh. 


(Central), Civil districts of Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam 
and East Godavari in the State of Andhra 
Pradesh. 


33 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg,Bastar 
Raipur. and Raigarh in the State of Madhya 

Pradesh. 


34 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Chhindwara, Betul, Seoni, 
Chhindwara. Balaghatand Mandlain the State of Madhya 

Pradesh. 


35 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Shahdol. 


36 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 
Bhopal. 


Civil districts of Shahdol, Sarguja, Sidhi 
and Rcwa in the State of Madhya Pradesh, 

Civil districts of Sehore, Ratlam, Mandsaur, 
Jhabua, Ujjain, Dhar, Raisen, Shivpuri, 
Datia, Vidisha, Guna, Shajapur, Rajgarh, 
East Nimar, West Nimar, Hoshangabad, 
Bhind, Morena, Gwalior, Indore and 
Dcwas in the State of Madhya Pradesh. 



4292 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [P-,Rt II— 


i 2 3 


37 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Kanpur, Lucknow, Etawab, 
Kanpur. Mainpuri, Thansi, Hamirpur, Banda, 

Jalaun, Gorakhpur, Gonda, Deoria, fiahar- 
aich, Azamgarh, Ballia, Basti, Ghazipur, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, Unnao, Sitapur, 
I-Iardoi, Pratapgarh, Allahabad, Mfrza- 
pur, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Faizabad, 
Sultanpur, Fatehpur and Farrukhabad in 
the State of Uttar Pradesh. 


38 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), 
Delhi. 


Civil Districts of Agra, Mathura, Aligarh, 
Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahar, 
and Saharanpur in the State of Uttar 
Pradesh and civil districts of Rohtak, 
Gurgaon and Mahindergarh in the State of 
Haryana and Union Territory of Delhi. 


39 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), All civil districts in the States of Punjab, Jammu 
Chandigarh. and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh and 

all civil districts excepting civil districts of 
Rohtak, Gurgaon and Mahindergarh in the. 
State of Haryana and the Union territory of 
Chandigarh. 


40 Assistant Ltbv.ir Commissioner (Central), 
Barielly, 


41 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Madras-I. 


Civil districts of Bariellv, Nalnital, Almora, 
Dehradun, Bijnor, Uttar Kashi, Tchn 
Garhwal, Garhwal, Chamoli, Pithoragarh, 
Badauni Etah, Kheri, Moradabad, Pihbhit 
Rampur and Shahjahanpur in the State 
of Uttar Pradesh. 

All civil districts in the slate of Tamil 
Nadu and Union territory of Pondicherry. 


42 


Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), f 
Madras II. J 


43 Assistant Labour Com nfssioner ("Central), All civil districts in thcState of Kerala and 
Emakulam. the Union territories of Laccadive, Minicoy 

and Amindivi Islands. 


[No. M /i8on(4)/7i-LWI(I)Con.I] 


mist 

ferr 2 1 ^rrf , 1971 

BTo TTo fBo 30 61. — NfFT (fafWFT WtT. dcMKd) STftllWL ( 19 70 
( 1 9 7 0 TT 3 7) ^ aiU 6 TUT TBTT sifsRFiT TI 5FTPT BITF TOP 1JB55ITT 

% FUT ( 2 ) F BftFT sriwfuff ^fl RWr % stfuTlft %, 

driwfr t, SFjgrft ^ ( 3) ^ iUWFfr 

r frTd fT t? wfa+iPwi FBFftB tfHmif % tftar bbb srfafBqn % sm bt 

shift irfy+iRdf tt srrn vrfeuff tt pTet tTb i 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA JO, 1893 4293 



358 NWT 

NftTTTtf 


TNFftT TffTTTT! 


(1) 

(2) 


(3) 



1. JTrrrTT ntt NEWT (%^PT), STEfT 


2. ’Tjmr NN NEW 


3. *r$mr isn t *rnj*?r (%^kr), 
N 7TWTTT I 


4. TTgEW NTT NEUFT (fEfkr) , TrTCNT I 


5. TJ5TTT NE NEERT (%?afEr), } 

NTTEETtH- 1 ; 

6. EllEEP N'T J NEW 

VKMtflM-2 J 

7. WETT NE NEJET (%T5far), 1 

TEfrTTT— 1 V 

8. E^ET^ NTT NEW (%^t), { 

TFftrf5r-2 J 

9. WW NTT NTEET (%ETk), 

VpTT^T I 

10. TT3EW NTT NEW ( %E?fcT ) , 7 T JT W 


tretet tw Jr NRifr, sEEpc, fN^rrsr, 
eWc, sjjTT, oor-m, affTEk, 
retYt, ntsht, ^wEr, ntett nYt TrrfV 
% fwf'TN- f 5FT I 

trtnet tw Jr wTn, ^V, Trsntwryr, 

%, 'H ITEETTT, f^rlYffTpr, TTT- 

TJ, Y l r’'F nYt yEETTNf % fJrfari fTN I 

tJNTTT TW if NTEEfRTN OTTfEETT, for, 

nsW, sp-'rr, grrr, wrr[Tr, ernee. 

WEENT 'TWi-’E, Tjkff TTT, NET-m 
TtVt NEET % fJrfaTT kfE 1 1 

TTTTTTcT THJ3T if JTTW'-'TT, TN, TTVRk, 

NEkfr, nhehtt nYt 3ptpej ft fartNE 
fa^T TNT rrNTNET TW if fuff^ NRifT 
nYt shfk tt kiNN kmT i 

EfsNTftkTnr TT^T if NjElET knY TT 
NTTETTfkr ?INT TTfw tfT f%fa?r 

kmT 1 


qfffN«ff-N : TET TR T if WTRTfkT *>> 

Tkrnr ^rr frrfNW kon tnt 
nTt e j a) fafaE km i 

TTfiET THT if Tff, TTHR, sfn+HTT, NNE, 
TNTfk ^rmz, Torn^T^r, NkEEftr 
nYt tVjnitwtt % frrfNN krfT i 

TTIET U'tT if JKT'rsrv . TpTT^kl, TT^M4 < 

nVt N'E t'i? % fkrfkw ki% 1 




4294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT 


1 


2 


3 


1 1 . tffFFT «TT 5TPTET (ksk) , *Uff- 1 

1 2. ?rnjfT , ft ?- 2 


1 3. 5 srr 5 tpt<et (%^) , 

1 4. wrw «F4 ottot (%^r) , inrirff 


15- 

TiUTT *44 snrrrw 

(%^), ] 


^PFrlT-l 

1 

16. 

HTTHTT >44 'HTTTT 

(%*Kkr), \ 


WT^TT-2 


17. 

5rrwf 



f ti<’t^TTl— 3 

. 

18. 

FT^TT ETT 4T'TTT (%??> 

j), Tkrtfi 


1 9. srr^RT , srrt?- 1 ' 

2 o- tfnr^r (^rr ) , sttstt- 2 

2 1. htittt ?rr™ (kfm) , srrtc- 3 

22. «m ?rnjw (%^tr) , ehrtt- 4 
2 3. *TfTW ‘‘•TT 3 T 1 TTT (ksk) , ^nTRFT 

24. *nnw m 59TUFT (%^rr),TiTrr 


25. ^HT STrTTT (%^fk) , -qi£«)WT 

26. «UT ?rr44T (%rsW) , ^ 
fcTTslK- 1 


h$i <. 1^4 <1^9 5f 344 *j*£ *TRT, SjkPTT, 
F7%F, THTTT, t J 7 TT, STfE^HR, Wfam, 
E7TRT, WTTTUTTT, ^TRrft, "WltT, 

aTi 011413, TOFfi, 4^, ^ftr, *w <4 1 , 

3[FTTPTT srk TF3JT % %fkT f^T T4T 
TTTT ?Tk TFR *TT TRT STS' I 

E’^TTF^ TUR ij TFTTT, TTCT, TET?, ETU^'ff, 
TtrHT^r ’4*1 < 'TtTTT % I 

tRt, ww sfk *pt rw T«rr 

TTTTTFT TFJT if TrFTfrfT SlV tUTTF 

% ffc I 

qfwft TTI’T TRtf if ’F^rTr, fTTST, 
24 MGHT, firSHIJT, JjTfqKHTC, 
TftTTT, TFTT, ')f>H‘ff fTTRTTr, WTTt- 
*T^t, ^T3ff%FT ?ftT TRfRpriT % %fr^ 
fjfir CPU WTEFT fwlRlT SfT ^ 
#4 Ti^r sfa 1 

^rmuT, Turrar *rk rmt %■ ?r*ff 

fafaw f3f% TTT ’Fft^T 4k f^TJTT ^pq 
T r^r wr mj wg>j 4T tfkiT srfw^ 
(44T) 

I f^TT TRT if 46414 TT fafw fan I 


f^r.J ’ if RFT, TO^[ 4k tHY 

% f*rfaw fk% 1 

f^TT rm if 43TT, WII$«IK, W, TfoFT> 

449^ <., TWIT, 4?TWT, 

W w/fT, skm, ^rnm^r tfk 
TUFtt % ftlfaw f^T% I 
fg^TT Trnr if f%ir wfir tt fkfaFr f^rwr 1 

q^T TRT ii 4444 «fk f^TT % TTT 
3Tkr TT^T if ^TTTRTT, fTRT'TRTT, 
TFTfJt, FffiFFIT, iTT^F, TfWTT T , 



Slc. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4295 


1 


2 


3 


2 7. tr^TTr! nt tttw (%rftT) 1 
^ ^ TT ^ 1 T ■* 2 j 

2 8- TTpTT NT TOUTT (%ktT), 

fkrTTTST 

29- t^ttf nt nutt (%ktT) , 
fTvrrsrrcTTT 

30 . tttttt nt tust (%krr) , TTTk 

3 1 . TfTTTT NT NUTT (kfftT ) , k-NKT 

3 2. NT NUTT (kjftT ) , NTTTJT 

33. TfNTTT NT NUTT (kfU), TTTTT: 

34. T^TF NT NUTT (kflT), 

f\s«<TlsT 

3 5. TjjTTTT NT NUW (%ktr) , Vl^k 
36. Ti$TTT' NT NUTT (ksftT ) , TtTTN 


NTfTNTTTC, TK'IM NtT f % fafTT 
fTN I 

ntr Tkr tt^t t Tfkpft Ttrukr, 
T/J; NUk, kwk, Nk TINT % frfTN 
fa% I 

NTCT T^T TUT T fq TT^IPTT'TT, NfTTfNT 
Nk tjpff TtTTTd % fakur I 

TTT TUT t TTTk, TTtTTTT, kp, W, 
TfT, TT, TTT, fWTtTT, TfUTTfr UTTTT, 
fTTf't, Nk fTTTTTNT % fafTN fa% 
TTT NPW T^vr TUT T fTrTT (nTT I 

%r uu ir T^-rkr, Tkt wm, tu^t, 
TtNTJT, TOIS Nk TTTTT % Nk 
NRT NTT TUT if NTTPJT iqk TTTT T 

frfqn fa Jr i 

TST Tkr TUT Jf NTN^T, TTt^, TWIT 
®HTgr, kwr?, tw, nut, Nk ?u- 
frf JT % fTfTN fkl’ I 

TKT Tkr TUT Jr iTTTT^JT, TTTJT, fit, 
nttt Nk wrr % Wtn faN i 

TST TUT TUT it feuTTST, W^W, fFTT'tt, 
TTTTTT NtT TTWT % frfTN frJr I 

tet skr tut Jr TTiprr, frf >5 

Nk TTT % frfTN fat% I 

TST Tkr TUT Jr JrftT, TTNIT, TTtfk, 
ittnt, ikT, sTT, TrrJrr, fvrr^fr, 
TfTTT, fffkrT, TTT, T^NTT, TINT?, 
'jiff frTrr, qfsTk fTTTT, fkiruru, 
fnr, t^tt, urftrTT, ^uk wk krrr 
% frfw fkr 1 




4296 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Fart II 


37 . (TOftr), 


38 . tt^tw «pt ottot (Mftr ) , fMfr 

39 . ttstotf ott ottot ) , ^* 1 $ 

40. otetotoottot (Mfnr), '«<Wl 

4 1 . tt^totf to ottot (Mrtr ) , totto i 

42 . toottot (^M), totoi 

43. to ottot (Mffa ) , 

rTT^TT l 


tto srM tttt Jr ttttt ottot;, toot, 
Mrt, otto, siMr, 

TMrqr;, test, Moth, tootto, otto- 
Tftm, TOTft, ti siTTnnft, 
OTTOTMt, OTOTT, TftfTPTT, g I £ , 
TOOTIi, ITI^K, fifjrfjT, TKI'M, 
MfJT, $5TRTC, TJTOTOTJT:, TTOJg - , 
$f\r MTOOTT % fgFM fMf I 

TOT Mt TEST it OTTO, MM. OTJOT, 
TO5, TOl'TTOOTK, TOTOIg< *flT ti g I TfT- 
5T % MM fa% TOT ffTOTOT OTTO Jr 
TTgTOT, TOOTOT, tftT TOTOTT % MOTT 
Mr TOT fMft TO OTTO M I 

Mott, TOnfrr *ftr fjPRiTH srM 

otto! % Mt Mott Mr tot Tt?ro, 
nfOTOT*ftTT^OTTfTrt®k TO^fOTTPOT 

otto % Mt MM Mr tot MM 

TO OTTO TO I 

toot mM ottto ir tMV, Wnitt, othttit, 
M^r, MotV, toottM, Mot 

T^OTOT, T^OTOT, ‘OTTtvft, fOTTttl 4 l?, TOTET , 
EOT, OT#t, TTTOTTTT, MMl, OTnEJOT 
Mr otietoit ^ Mt MM Mr i 

tIM-tt? ?tto % Mt Mott Mr tot 

v3 

qrMtft M otto to i 

4* t«n otto % Tnft Mott fcr% tot 
T wrffr, fMMr srk OTfMWt tftr- 
TOg TO TITO TO I 


[To rrrTo/ 1 80 1 1 ( 4) / 7 1-M a OT$°— l/^rte/l] 



Sf,c. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 20. 893 4297 


S.O.3065. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv section 11 of the Contract Labour (Regula- 
tion and Abolition) Act, 1970 (37 of 1970), the Central Government hereby appoints the office s 
mentioned in column (2) of the Schedule below, being Gazetted Officers of Government, to 
be licensing officers who shall exercise the powers conferred on licensing officers bv or under 
the said Act within the local limits of their respective jurisdiction specihed in the 
corresponding entri s in column (3) lof the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Serial Officers Local limits 

No. 


1 


2 


3 


Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Ajmer. 


Civil districts of Ajmer Jaipur. Bhilwara, 
Shear, Jhunjhuna, Churu, Ganganagar, 
Bikaner, Nagour, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, 
Alwar and Pali In the State of Rajatshan. 


2 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Kota. 


3 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Ahmedabad. 


Civil district of Kota, Bundl, Sawaimadhopur, 
Tonk, Bharatpur, Jhalawar, Chitioigeili, 
Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswra in the 
Stare of Raiasthan. 

Civil districts of Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar 
Kalra, Baroda, Broach, Surat, Dang- 
Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Panchmahalss 
Surendra Nagar, Bhavnagar, Bulser in the. 
State of Gujarat. 


4 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Kandla, 


Civil districts of Banaskantha, Kutch,Rs)kot 
Amreli, Jamnagar and Junagexh in the 
State of Gujarat end the civil district of 
Sirohl Baxmar and Jallore in the State 
of Rajasthan. 


5 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),-) AsbdfoI Sub-Di vision of Eurdvsr Dntrici 

Asaneol-I. j and civil district of Puruliain the State 

}■ of WeBt Bengal. 

6 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), | 

Asanso -II. I 


7 

8 
9 


Assistant Labour 
Ranlganj-I. 

Assistant Labour 
Raniganj-II. 
Assistant Labour 
Bhubaneshwar. 


Commissioner (Central), "j Civil district of Burdwen excluding Aftr : 0 
| Sub-Division andcivildistricts ofBankura 
_ . f- and Birbhum in the State of Westc 

Commissioner (Central), j Bengal. 

Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Puri, CuttBck, Dbenkanal, 

Ganjam, Balaeore, Koraput, Kalahand , 
Bolangir and Baudh-Kbondmala in the 
State of OrisBa. 


10 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Keonjbar, Meyurbbanj, 
Rourkela. Sambalpur and Sundergarh in the State of 

Orissa, 


ri Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),') Civil districts of Greater Bombay, Thane 
a W'c „ . . C Dhulia, Nasik, Kolaba, Poona, Ahmed- 

12 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), [ nagar, Sholapur, Satara, Osmanebad, 

Bombay-II. J Sangli, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Parbhani 

Nanded, Bhir, Akola, Buldana and Rajura 
in the State of Maharashtra Bnd ihe 
Union Territories of Dadra end Nagar 
Haveli. 



4298 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, J 893 [Part II— 


1 


2 


3 


13 AiiistaDt Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Nagpur. 


14 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Sambbaji. 


15 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Centra)),' 
Calcutta-I. 

16 Assistant Labour Commission :r (Central), 

Calcutta-II. 

17 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), I 

Calcutta-Ill. I 

1 

18 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), J 

Gauhati. 


Civil districts of Nagpur, Chanda, Wardha, 
Amravati, Yeotmal and Bhandara in the 
State of Maharashtra. 

Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu 
and Civil districts ofRatnagiri and Kolhapur 
in the State of Marhasthra. 

Civil districts of Calcutta, Howrah , Hooghly, 
24 Parganas, Midnapur, Murshidabad, 
Nadia, Malda.West Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri, 
Darjeeling and Coochbeher in the 
State of West Bengal and the Union- 
territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 


All civil districts in the States of Assam, Naga- 
land and Meghalaya and Union territories 
of Manipur and Tripura and the North 
East Frontier Agency. 


19 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), ") 
Dhenbad-I. I 

I 

23 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 1 
Dbanbad-II. | 

21 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Dhanbad-III. 

22 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Dbanbad-JV. 

23 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Hazaribagh. 

24 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Patna. 


25 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Cbaibasa. 

26 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),'] 

Hyderabad-I. ^ 

27 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central!, I 

Hyderabad-IJ. J 


28 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Vijayawada. 


29 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
VisakhBpatnam. 


30 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Bangalore. 


Civil district of Dhanbad in the State of 
Bihar. 


Civil districts of Hazaribagh, Palamau and 
Ranchi in the State of Bihar. 

Civil districts of Patna, Shahabad, Gaya, 
Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Moti- 
bari, Sabarsa, Saran, Monghyr, Purnca, 
Bhagalpur and Santhal Parganas in the 
State of Bihar. 

Civil district of Singhbhtm in the State of 
Bihar. 

Civil districts of Gulbarga ard Bihar in the 
State of Mysore and the civil districts of 
Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Nalgonda, 
Mehbubnagar, Medak, Karimnagsr, 
Adilabad, Warangal andKurnool in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Krishna, West Godavni, 
Guntur, Ongole, Nellore and Kbamroam 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh. 

Civil districts ofVisakhapatnam, Srikakulcm 
and East Godavari in the State of Andhra 
Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Bangalore, Kolar, Mysore, 
Mandya, Tumkur, Coctrg, Hasan, Shimoga, 
Soutb-Kennra, ■GbttrSdurffaantl-Chk'kinjl, 
gulur in the State of Mysore and Chitcor- 
district in the State of Andhra PrBdeab. 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4299 


12 3 


31 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Certral), 

Bellary. 


J2 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Jabalpur. 


33 Asiiatant Ltbour Commissuner (Central), 

Raipur. 

34 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Chhindwara. 


3 s Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Shahdol. 

36 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Bhopal. 


3’ Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Kanpur. 


38 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Delhi. 


30 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Chandigarh. 


40 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Bareilly. 


Civil districts cf Bellary, North Kanara, 
Raichur, Bijapur, DhBrwar and Belgaum 
in the State of Mysore and Anantpur and 
Cuddapah in the State of AndhraPradeeb. 

Civil districts of Jabalpur, Damoh, Saugor 
Cbatarpur, Tikamgarh, Satna, Panna #Dd 
Narsimhapur in the State of Madhya 
Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg, 
Bastar and Raigarh in the State of Madbya 
Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Chhindwara, BetuI, Seoni, 
BalBghatand Mandiain the State of Madhya 
Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Shahdol, Sarguja, Sidbi 
and Rewain the State of Madhya Pradesh. 

Civil districts of Sehore, Ratlam, Mendsaur 
Jhabua, Ujjairo, Dhar, Raisen, Shivnuri, 
Datia, Vidisha, Guna, Sbajapur, Fafgarh 
East Nimar, West Nimar, Hoshangabsd, 
Bbind, Morena, Gwalior, Indore and 
Dewas in the State of Madhya Pradcah. 

Civil districts of Kanpur, Lucknow, Etawah, 
Mainpuri, Jhanai, Hamirpur, Banda, Jalaun, 
Gorakhpur, Gonda, Deoria, Babaraich, 
Azamgarh, Ballia, Basti, Ghazipur Bara- 
Banki, Raebarcli, Unpao, Sitapur, 
Hardoi .Pratapgarh, Allahabad, Mirzapur, 
Varanasi, Jsunpur, Faizabad, Sultanpur, 
Fatchpur and Farrukhabad in the State 
of Uttar Pradesh. 

Civil Districts of Agra, Mathura, Aligarh, 
Meeiut, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahar, 
Sahoranpur in tlie State of Uttar Pradesh 
and civil districts of Robtak, Gurgaon and 
Mahindergarh in the State of Haryana and 
Union Territory of Delhi. 

All civil districts in the States of Punjab, 
Jammu and Kashmir) and Himachal Pradesh 
and all civil districts excepting civil dis- 
tricts of Rohtak, Gurgaon and Mabir.do - 
garh in the State qf Haryana and the Union 
territory of Chandigarh. 

Civil districts of Bariclly, Nainital, / >n 1 
Debradun, Bijnor, Uttar Kashi, Ttlxi 
Garhv, ul, GarhwaJ, Chnmolj, Pirboragm i, 
Badaun, Etah, Kheri, Moradabad, Pilifciut 
Rampur and Shahiehanf-ur in thi State 
of Uttar Pradesh. 


41 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central),'! Ail civil districts in the State of Tamil 

Madtas-L I Nadu and Union territoryof Pondicherry, 

42 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), J 

Madras II. 



4300 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT 


43 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central!, All civil districts in the State of Kerala and 
Ernakulam. the Union territories of Laccadive, 

Minicoy and Amindivi Islands. 


[No, M. i8oii( 4)/7I-LWI (I)Con / II)] 
(K. D. HAJELA, Under Secy. 

wo vto fa 3o 65. — sn-rfa^; «rfar (fafawd wk tcTOt) srfaRm 1970 
( 1970 WT 37) ^9KI liaTOrcrT ^if^FTf TT 5TTFT TTcT TrWTT . tT^^TTT 

qrt % ?cT*i ( 2 ) ?r sr%TTfwr fit ^ tot % Tmfgrar Trfwr^t | 

*rj?rm Nfa'Trrft frTTtf <jft sw % fafa ( 3 ) Tff ypqfeui 

fTfafTit? ^rq^ft-^rq-jfr PsrfnfmT Tft FTEfar ifHmff % ifarc wfafTur % jrt 

jit tftT srtffa NfaTrfWt qft jhtct «i Petti tt spiRt tRtt 1 


ft 


TFTWsqT 




T*TFffa TfaffTT 


1. Hfiw m ttrjw (%pffa), 


2. TT^FT^ «T*T TrFJ«RI , »fft5T I 


3. JTfFTF NK (T>lfrT), 

si^rcnrrc 1 


4 . ir^rtrT w wijw (%^), T77W 1 


5 . w srr^T (%y^), 

inw'fri 

6. H?npp NTT NPJTrT (%sfk), 

snrmrt'T — 2 


TT3PPTR TR4 if TOT, NTJT, fWTTfr, 

fflTT, STIJ'J, tRTTTIT, sfarnifT, 

?rnfk, oftlTJT, NRFHlT, NvFIT *rfc 

Tuft % fafar 1 

TT^TET if Ttri, Tid 1^19^7, 
TtT, WTSFJT, STTITTT, fante^, TTI- 
J7, tfk TiwfT % fofdq fsw i 
^stutt rrm Jr st$*p?rtt, TmPnn:, ttt, 
T^VtT, TTK TJTri, SfrjTT, FTTTTdT, 
ET <,cf,rf] |, tf^TT^irT, ri^rSHT T 

^ftr 37TTTT ®ft ftsivT I 

’tttitt ttjt 5 t snrw^r, tn, ttwit 

NTtift, TTRTTt %frr i|4TTf % faftN 
fTFT tPTT ilof^H 7TTT Jf faft^t RTT%7 
*rk ^5ftr tn faRnr fw i 

”1 tttjt if ^37*1 foi% tt 

1 srrawrfa oti 27T?ftt ipt fafa«r 

I Pol'd i I 




Sec. 3 C i i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4301 


(0 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


7. TfTTNT NT STPJET (%Nta), 

ITHlTN - 1 

8 . TSPTT NT NNIT (TNOt), 

TnftTf^r— 2 : 

9. TtflTE NT NTNNT (ENIT), 

a 0 . tjine n r Ti jET (•ET'r-r),TiT^ ; rr’ 

1 1. TZITT NT NiNET ( frsftT) Tt£- 1 
12 T^TTE NT NTJNT (^TflN) Trt- 2 


4 3. T^ETT NT TiTJET ( %Tfta ) , TTTft ■ 
1 4. TflTT NT NEjTT ( %NIt) , TTTTT] 


15. TfTTT NT NPJET 

TNEtTT - 1 

16- TnTTT NT NTWT (%^tT), 

^N+yTT -2 

17. TflTT NT NTTET (%tafa), 

TNTtTT — 3 

18. TfTTTT NT NINE! (sFN^T), TtTT^l- 

19. T3TTT NT NPJTT (ksflN), SRNTT- 

20. WITT NT NfTT (%-sEYn) , NTTTT-! 
2 1. T^TTT NT NIT IT (%TT) SRNTT- 
2 2. TfTTTT NT NEJTT ( %TfiN ) TTNT-4 


qfETTr-T'TTT TTT T NTTTTFH TTJTT NT 

starr t^ttt n frfNH fNNi tnt 

tt^st sfk % frfrw fr% i 

TflTT TTT T fft, TTT, TTTTTN, TNT , 
TNTtr, rtTi'iz, TtaRifta 

tfk Ttatatam % frfaH ,fNN i 

TsYti'TTT T TTfTU T^-CTT, TfTTTl 
sfkT^rur^ ^iriNNfN^ \ 

TfT77*5 xm T ’Jfn; a£ff , TETT, S[fT9 1 , 
TTfrr.rtNm, ^n, n^ttttt, Ntarrju 

T7TRT, TTTITTT, TtT*fV, NNTtN, 

NkTHrrr, Trraft, T^r, '♦fir, nett, 
^ntrt Nk mjr % fir tar fNH 1 tnt 

OTI tfk TETT 5#«fr TN TTT^T I 
ttht^ tt?t jj- tttjt, Ntar, *rcrf, ntgntt, 
TTTTH wk TEGT E fTfTN I 

Tin, TTT Nk ftN NT TETEftT TNT 

Tfm^ w Jr TTrfrk Nk 
% frkN fr^r i] 

TfVrr T tttn tun t wwr, 
fTifr, 24 Ttm, frsTTCT, wit, 

TfTTT, TENT, Tfrrrfr fklTNTT, NNTTf- 
■ ajfT, TmfNT *rk rNfafn: % frfNN 
fr% TNT NTTTT Nk frrtaTC ffT T^5 
TT TUTNW I 

NETT, TTTUtT Nk kTTNT TErff % NTt 
frfT5rfN%TNT T^ft^T *ki fNTTJ tfN 
TEN'NN TNT TTK-^ff ^ITT NfTETH 

(kir) 


j fr^TT XT 7 T T NTNIN NT frfNH INTT I 

J 




4302 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, I971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part 11- 


0) (2) ( 3 ) 


23 . ?n^r(%?#Fr), 541 O 4 W 

24. T44T 


25 . 554151 m 51555 ^T$*rraT 

26. m 54JT5 ($4*14),"] 

rl'l * I 'It T- 1 | 

27 . ^r^PT^r ^TT^fcT (%J^T), ^ 

§444115-2 

28 . ^r^Frsp vm 44555 (%4fm), 

ftrjpTTrrr 

29. itqm; stt *n^wr 

f*pnram^irn 

30. HsjFT^ s snr (%*sfl 5 ), wfh: 


31 . 55444 m 51555 (%4fl4), ^ntl 


32. F^PUfT >44 54554 (%^Fr) , TOl^ 

33 . F54T4 *44 STP^RT (%FTfa), 44154 

34. F^FFP *44 ?1WTT (%4fFl), 

f^4Rr 

35. Hiim *44 4TTFT ($4sf5r) , WlrTTl?! 


f^K TT^T 4 ^50^474, 54TPJ, 5ft4 tMV 
% ftrf^r Pi^r 1 

TTI4 $T 4441, W4T4, 44T, 4^R, 
4444454 5WTT, 4tf44Tft, 4444T, 
4T44, 5 %, jftTT, 4144154 5fl4 44T4 
T444T % f5f54r fjf r l' I 

f4?TT4R4t f^J4 4T M44 fw I 
tfSjT 4 R 4 ^ 5 ^ 4V4 f44T4 % 44T 4Ft4‘ 
4^41 41^4 4 §T4T54f, 144141414, 
-T44T3T, 4^4444, F44, 4ft444'4, 
4lft'HfT«n(;, 4 1 4>tT 5^4 J’f.'T %’ 
f4f44 f314T I 

4FW 4^4 TTS4 4 WW, 'l1W4l Wild', 
5£4, 4Ffl4, ^TWrt4 ?ft44TF44%ftff44r 
fcl5T I 

4FCT 4^4 44*T 4 f44WT4244, «fl4Tf 4^ 
4k 5*ff iffaFTft % f4f44 I 
%4 TT54 if 444^4, 41444, ^44, 4y4T, 
4f4, ?44, f44l4T, 5fft(T4l 44T4T, 

f44^ ?ft4 fwil^JT % M44 f44 
cFTT 4414 4%4 4T?4 *1 f44J4 f441 I 

I?g4 4TFT Jr 4441 -14441, 44454, 

414144, 4I44TT *fk ^4414 % *f|4 
*14=13 4«t4 444f if ^4454 *fl4 4W % 
f^44 f^T I 

464 4T71 tTj4 4 44454 , 5415, uVAt, 
'3444,4, €1*444$, 4444, 44T 514 54- 
f%?54 % f^T I 
565 5*5 4TJ4 if fWTTJT, 44154, |4, 
4444 5^4 4415$ % f5f45 I 
444 5%5 445 if fW^lST, %T4T, fwfl, 
3T55U 4^4 4«51 % f^FT f^T I 
444 514t4T 4F4T if 45414, 44541, 

5l4 44T % f4rPT4T f4% I 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4303 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 

36. Hfnrr no 1 srnjw vfDrnr JDtw if Tfftr, Tcftr, *Rik, 

srprr, -Tf^nT, sir, 

^fcWT, fafcw, igTT, W7RT, TOJ, 
ftlTR, 'TfrTOT pRTT, ftWifT^KT, 
fir*, ^tt, mfmz, T^ffr tftx torn 
% f?rf*m f^iir 1 

37. Herraw *r m^'Ri (^pt), ^pRyr xtur ttr if ^zvrr, 

thrift, amfr, *trt, Whr, 

’fl ’ffwT, : r<forr, sr^rr^r, mrwrf , 
>3f^nTT, J 1 1 'jfDTT, •mTT'T'Ft, 

3RR, iffaTJT, pTRttf, 
jrffFRqf, v-uzwvt, firerfjr, EircmtfV, 
dld^A, "fi'jTRTEr, y'-tni^TP', rTg'K 
®ffT , TP§?1 RTT % fd f-'-T'-l f 3 I H I 

38. HfR^ «R 'CIPJ'KT ( %-^fVJT ) , 3 tTT 51^1 RR if STURT, R^IT, *T5ft*T?, 

i ITS, Jjaf VTrGFTT, 'l^TWri *T k r$TT<T- 
5T % frrf^T fsR TRT tffUTFTT w if 
nonfat, rftr % firftH 

p5T# <RT f^ff IDT TUR I 

39. TT^R^ SR SRJW 'T5TR, wk ^^PUffT tfk f^HT H^T 

■rrt % rr»ft ftrfAPr trt <1^, 
6a'l iqi $/Vr Tri^S-*!^ *?rf Tjff 4R %fWi ( 
TPR % 7RT f%f>T5T 5RT 
TR TTR I 

40. nfpr^sR*n^«w (%'Tfto), sr^fr st^t tfr if smarter, 

^TT^r, .fipspftr, 'dVTT4>l yfY, fc^f 
^ PrsftrnT?, sroi^, 

rrzr, mft, f<W7T5, 'flvfhfld, WfT 

tfk wr^piijT % fair i 

4 1- Hr,mT’ SR ^ i^n (%Rfir ) , TTsTR- I "1 flf+tM »i |W TTR % luff faffRT fit?) (HTT 

^ qife%fr ?fa ttr &T i 

42. TTfURT SR 5RJ*R (%^t), TRR-2J 

43. 5sr iii^d (%^fR), ?trt % ir^ foffm fair ;rt tot- 

ir^rf^R <ffa, fa *f fata sffa sufrfafaf tfta- 

RJ5 #q- TFR I 

Jlio IJITo/l801l(4)/71-^o 5TT^o- l/^/II] 

%o ffo ?RT t 





4304 THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


[Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 26 th July 1971 

S.O. 3066. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Iron Ore 
Mines Labour Welfare Cess Act, 1961 (58 of 1981), read with clause (iv) of rule 
3 of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963, the Central Govt, 
hereby appoints the Chairman, Orissa Minins' Corporation Limited, Bhubane- 
swar, to be a member to represent interests of the iron ore mine owners of the 
State of Orissa in the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee 
for the State of Orissa, constituted by the notification of the Govt, of India, in 
the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour & Employment), No. S.O. 3693, dated the 9th October, 1968, and makes 
the following amendment in the said notification, namely: — 

In the said notification, in serial number 5, for the existing entry, the follow- 
ing entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Chairman, 

Orissa Mining Corporation Limited, 

Bhubaneswar". 

[No. F. U-19012/5/71-M.IILT 

bWtit flnm) 

Iwsfl, 1971 

tjiffowlo 3066.-- 3TFT mi 'fw’TTT WT fdRR 1963 % fw 3 % W 

(iv)% rut qfer isrpr *f&rvn i 96 i ( 1961 rtt 58 ) 

«rm 4 am tnm biOd^rY «ft spfRr gtr spotk w, RsYeT jttsIrr 

vrrcr iwr % ijeryt «nr, itwr *rk 5^% rtin m 
(>snr tffr: T?nmTT fwr) « 6 t wRi^rt ^0 ssrr° 3693 mfta 9 wtst 1968 am 
Tmr ^ Ritf nl (5 ^nrw^TFT mr "tedra RtRi RfRfrr if 'Fftirr ttjr 

RTCft $ tfR R*RT R fd^RlRad RTtRFT ^ «fl % : — 

W if APT tfWT 5 t fatWRFT Iffafe % FTFT 9T RfHRrR'Id Jffafe 

srffmrrf'FT arfafr, 

“wsw 

R^tRT RTRRt^FT 

^riRn: 1" 


[r-o TT° 0-1901/2/5/71-^0 III J 


New Delhi, the 21 th July 1971 

8.0. 3067. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-section 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby exempts as from the date of publication of this 
notification in the official gazette and upto 1973-74, lignite of whatever descrip- 
tion, despatched from the collieries in India, from the levy of the duty of ex- 
cise referred to in the said sub-section. 


[No. 1/8/67. M-II.J 
C. R, NAIR, Under Secy r 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 97 1 /SR AVAN A 30, 1893 4305 


Tf 27 16 7 1 

«To «FTo Wo 3 0 67. — 5WI7, ftftl STfafiRTH, 

( 1947 tt 32) ^unr 3 OT-tmr ( 1) sttr vrf^T^ff ^srak jfnjr 

^,WT?r if Tt Tlftr-TUT if TfTT fWt '*fr TTT % fcUPilTT Tt , TITWFT Wf^R 
qfqrpRT % iwm ^Ycrrfte if «fir 1973-74 cbf, ^fa Tram ir fMrfw A 3wrrs 
W % TTIRrm R ^n'?5PT ^ tcfY £ I 

[R° 1/ 8/67/tTTT— II 

rY° mro htr, sttc *rrar i 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 

8.0. 3668. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Madras, In the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of (i) Messrs India Cements Limited, Sankari and 
(ii) Star Construction and Transport Company, Sankari and their workmen which 
was received by the Central Government on the 23rd July, 1971. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS 

, .Wednesday, the 30 th day of June, 1971 

PRESENT: 

Thiru K. Seetharama Rao, B.A. B.L., Industrial Tribunal. 

Industrial Dispute No. 19 of 1869 

(In the matter of the dispute for adjudication under section 10(1) (d) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 between the workmen and the Managements of M/s. 
India Cements Ltd,, and M/s, Star Construction and Transport Company, Sankari 
West.) 

Between: 

(1) The General Secretary, The India Cements Employees Union, Sankari West 
Post Office, Salem District 

(2) The Secretary, India Cement and Mining Workers Union, Karumapuratham- 
pur, Sankari West Post Office, Salem District, 

And 

(1) The General Manager, M/s. India Cements Ltd., Sankari West. 

(2) The General Manager, M/s. Star Construction and Transport Company, 
Sankari West. 

Reference: 

Order No. 36/48/68-LRI, dated 20th February, 1969, of the Ministry of Labour, 
lEmploymeyit and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour anad Employment) 
Government of India, New Delhi, 

This dispute coming on for final hearing on Tuesday the 29th day of June, 1971, 
upon persuing the reference, claim and counter statements, and all other material 
papers on record and upon hearing the arguments of Thlruvalargul G, Venkata- 
raman and A. L. Somayajee, advocates for Union No. I., Thiru S. Ramaswaml, 
advocate for union No, 2 and of Thiru M. R. Narayanaswaml, advocate for Manage- 
ment No. 1 and Thiru T. K. Seshadri, advocate for Management No. 2 and having 
stood over till this day for consideration, this Tribunal made the following: 

AWARD 

The issue for consideration is what is set out by the Central Government in 
its order dated 20th February, 1989, as follows: — 

"Whether workmen employed by Messrs Star Construction and Transport 
Company, Sankari West are entitled to annual bonus tor 1967-68 at 



4306 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part li- 


the rate of 20 per cent as was paid to the factory workers of Messrs 
India Cements Limited, the principal employer.” 

(2) The Claimant Union (The India Cements Employees Union, Sankari West) 
contends that, for running of the cement factory, lime stones are quarried, in 
the mines near the factory and that the work of quarrying and transporting of 
lime stones has been done, from 1964, by Messrs, Star Construction and Trans- 
port Company, Sankari West (The second respondent In the Government Order 
cited above). It is urged that the work done by the above constractors is work 
done for India Cements Ltd. almost at the factory premises. Under the Wage 
Board Recommendations, the employees of the Contractor are entitled to same 
wages, Dearness allowance and other facilities, that are available to employees of 
the Contractor who is said to be India Cements Ltd. For 1964-65, 1965-66 and 
1966-67, the Contractor paid bonus at the same rate, as paid by India Cements 
Ltd,, to its employees. Under the settlement concluded on 28th October, 1967, the 
Contractor agreed to pay for 1966-67 bonus at 20 per cent at the rate bonus was 
paid by India Cements Ltd. For the year 1967-68, the Contractor did not make 
payment of bonus and so the Issue was raised as before the Conciliation Officer. 
India Cements Ltd., is bound to secure payment of bonus at 20 per cent rate to 
the employees working in the mines who work under the Contractor. It is further 
urged that, in any event, the Contractor, namely, Messrs Star Construction ar. 
Transport Company are bound to pay at 20 per cent rate. 

(3) Union No. 2 (India Cement and Mining Workers Union, Karumapuratham- 
pur) contended that profits earned by the Management are substantial. This 
Union represents a substantial section of workers employed in the lime stone 
quarry. There are about 1500 workers working in the lime stone quarry, 2U 
per cent of bonus is payable. 

(4) The India Cements Ltd., contended that it had no obligation in the matter 
of payment of bonus to employees working under the Contractor. The 
Provisions of the Payment of Bonus Act do not warrant the Impleading of India 
Cements Ltd. The claim made that India Cements has the obligation, in law, to 
ensure payment of 20 per cent bonus by the Contractor is without foundation. 
The recommendations made by 1st and 2nd Wage Boards are irrelevant, and 
assuming, that some of those recommendations relating to waige scales have been 
implemented, it cannot he said that, other recommendations, concerning contra: .. 
labour, have to be necessarily Implemented, 

(5) The Contractors contended that recommendations of the Wage Board were 
recommendatory and all the recommendations have not been implemented by 
the Contractor.* The bonus paid by the contractors had nothing to do with bonus 
paid by India Cements Ltd. Each year bonus dispute was settled, as between the 
employees and the Contractor. There was no implied term of service that these 
employees had to be paid the same quantum of bonus that was paid by India 
Cements Ltd. The bonus has to be paid under the payment of Bonus Act- 

(6) . The admitted facts are what are set out in Ex. C-l, that, year after year, 
under' separate settlements, the Contractor paid to his employees, bonus, in the 
same ratio in relation to wages at which India Cements paid its employees bonus; 
in 1964-65 and 1965-66 bonus was paid by each employer tto its employees at 7/24th 
of the basic wages, lor each year. For 1965-66 under the settlement dated 30th 
October, 1966, in terms thereof, the Contractor paid bonus to his employees. For 
1966 67, the settlement dated 28th October, 1967 governed the issue about Payment 
of Bonus by the Contractor to his employees, but then, at self-same rate of 20 
per cent, for 1966-67, the India Cements Ltd., also paid bonus to its employees. 
For 1967-68, India Cement paid bonus at 20 per cent of consolidated wages to its 
employees. 

(7) In the succeeding years, both the Contractor, as well as India Cements, 
paid bonus to its respective employees at 20 per cent rate, the maximum under 
the Payment of Bonus Act, The casual workers were paid only 4 per cent of 
bonus by India Cements, during 1968-89 and 1969-70. 

(8) As already stated, the admitted facts are those that are set out In Ex. C-l. 

(9) The Union examined W.W. 1 and W.W. 2 to seek to prove that, soon after 
India Cements paid bonus, the Union had demanded payment of bonus to em- 
ployees, working under the Contractor. W.W. 2 deposed that the basts for pay- 
ment of bonus to employees of the Contractor ever since 1964, for all these years 
was quantum of bonus actually paid to employees of India Cements Ltd. He 
added the profits or losses for any year in the Contractor Arm were not taken 
Into consideration, at anv time, while computing quantum of bonus that was paid. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4307 


He relied on the letter in Ex. W-3 to seek to prove that India Cement had imple- 
mented Wage Board recommendations, so far as wages and service conditions 
were concerned. He admitted that in Ex. M-10 letter, dated 13th September, I960, 
or, in no other letter it was ever written that bonus was payable at rates at 
which bonus was paid to employees of India Cement Ltd. He admitted that 
settlements as between Union and the employees did not read the bonus was paid 
at rates applicable to employees of India Cements Ltd. On the contrary, the settle- 
ment reads that employees were to be paid in future bonus, as per provisions of 
the Payment of Bonus Act. He added, however, that Manager of India Cements 
Ltd , and also Manager of the Contractor had told the Union Representatives, even 
before settlements were written up that the basis for giving bonus was the rate 
at which bonus was given by India Cements Ltd,, to its employees. W.W. 2 
admitted that settlements were always separate, concerning India Cements and 
its employees and the Contractor Arm and its employees. 

(10) W.W. 1 (President of the Labour Union) admitted that India Cements 
had talks with its employees about payment of bonus, and only, subsequently, 
bonus was paid by the Contractor Arm to employees. W.W, 1 admitted that the 
bonus was paid by Contractor Arm to its employees and not that India Cements 
ever paid bonus, at any time to employees working under the Contractor, His 
attention was drawn to the fact that in no settlements or letters or any other 
correspondence, it was ever written that bonus was payable or was being paid 
by the Contractor Arm, on the basis of bonus paid by India Cements to Its em- 
ployees. 

(11) Actually, there are 2 Unions, one known as The India Cements Employees 
Union and the other union known as India Cement and Mining Workers Union. 
Actually, the Star Construction Quarry Transport Employees Union later styled 
itself as India Cements Employees Union. 

(12) Ex-M-7 is the settlement that governs only employees of the Contractor. 
There is no writing there that bonus at 7/24th of the total basic wages for the 
year was agreed to be paid, on the basis, or because India Cements had paid that 
bonus, at that rate to its employees. Ex. M-8 the settlement for the succeeding 
year concerning employees working under the Contractor, contains the following 
terms that are slgniAcant; they are that union accepted and confirmed and 
declared that this basis of payment shall be only for the year 1900-67 and shall 
not constitute a precedent for the future year and that Bonus for the subsequent 
years will be paid only as per Bonus Act. As already stated, in the letter in 
Ex. M-10 to Ex. M-12, there is no writing that bonus was necessarily payable as 
per service conditions, express or implied, at the rate at which bonus was paid 
to its employees by India Cements Ltd. 

(13) The continuous payment of bonus, year after year, at the rate at which 
bonus was paid to employees of India Cements Ltd., should prove, so it is con- 
tended, on behalf of the Unions, that, at all times, the Contractors accepted that 
these employees were doing the same kind of work as was done by employees 
of India Cements Ltd. and hence, in equity and justice they have to be paid 
bonus at the rate at which it was paid by India Cements Ltd,, to its employees. 
The similarity or pattern of work done, it is so urged, was taken note of and that 
Is why, every time that settlements were concluded, bonus was paid at the rate 
at which India Cements Ltd., paid bonus to its employees and the argument is 
that such payments made from 1904 have resulted, in the employees acquiring 
a new service condition that payment of bonus shall be, on par, with payments 
made to employees of India Cements Ltd. It is urged that in the decision repo, t- 
ed in 1959-II-LLJ-page 826 (Dunlop Rubber Co., Vs, Its workmen) their Lord- 
ships of the Supreme Court help, as to. what was service condition. If uniform 
conditions prevailed in all branches of an all India Concern, such condition should 
not be lightly changed, Is what their Lordships held. In another case, i.e., the 
workmen of the Indian Telephone Industries Limited represented by its Secretary 
vs. The Management of the Indian Telephone Industries Limited," His Lordship 
Vaidialingam, J. wrote as follows: — 

“Prom the various minutes recorded of the meeting held between the parties, 
the circulars issued by the Management, the payment by the respon- 
dent of the same dearness allowance as applicable to the Central 
Government employees from the same dates as adopted by the 
Central Government, the various statements made by the respondent, 
that the Central rates of dearness allowance are being granted to Its 
employees, it is correct to Infer that the management has been adopt 
big the Central Government pattern of payment of dearness allowance, 
by virtue of an agreement or under standing arrived at between the 



4308 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part 11- 


parties and as such the payment of dearness allowance at the Central 
Government rate has become a condition of service.” 

In the above judgment His Lordship considered as to how payment of Dearness 
Allowance was evolved on the self same pattern in relation to Central Government 
employees, as well as employees working in the Telephone industries, that was 
a Government of India undertaking. 

(14) In my view, the above argument is not acceptable for the simple reason, 
that payment of bonus was done under settlements and, further, the settlement 
tor 196H-67 discloses beyond doubt, the acceptance by the Union, that bonus will 
be paid as per Payment of Bonus Act in future years. In other words, when 
paying bonus at 20 per cent of consolidated wages for 1966-67, the Management, 
namely, the Contractor took good care to make its known and even accepted by 
the Union, that payment of bonus had to be made only under the law, namely 
the Payment of Bonus Act. Secondly, the Union of employees for the Contractor 
separately dealt with the Contractors in separate settlements that had nothing 
to do with employees of India Cements Ltd, In my view, merely because the 
settlement in Ex. M-8 is now cancelled under the notice issued by the Union, from 
that fact, it cannot be held that the Union did not confirm and declare that pay- 
ment of bonus at 20 per cent for 1966-67 was payment made for that year and was 
not to constitute a precedent for the succeeding year. Apparently, the Contractors 
were aware that employees were demanding payment of Bonus at the rate at which 
India Cements Ltd., paid bonus to its employees. The Contractors had no objec- 
tion to pay bonus that year at that rate, but they never accepted that workers 
could claim such right every year and they took good care to get declaration to 
the contrary that though payment was made at that 20 per cent rate, such payment 
was not a precedent and that In future bonus was to be paid as per Act. I am 
satisfied that no service condition express or implied, exists to demand payment 
of bonus at rate applicable to employees of India Cements Ltd. I find that the 
Contractor Arm had no obligation whatever, on account of any service conditions, 
express or implied or because of any understanding that did not exist that bonus 
was payable to his employees at the rate at which India Cements Paid bonus to 
its employees. In my view, reference to Wage Board Recommenations is not 
what is material, for only some of the recommendations have been accepted both 
by th Contractor firm and India Cements Ltd., and that was done under settlements 
concluded with the respective Unions, It was never agreed to, by India Cements 
Ltd,, that they were responsible for Payment of bonus to employees of the Contrac- 
tor, or that such employees were to be paid bonus at the rate at which bonus was 
paid to its own employees. I agree that the contract system is being statutorily 
abolished, but then, I am dealing with the Issue about payment of bonus for the 
year 1967-68, at a time when contract system remained unfettered, and Contractor 
firm could do work, not merely of loading and un loading of goods, bpt also of 
other'work, normally, to be done by the principal himself. 

(15) The Unions contended that the evidence of M.W.I., and the worksheet 
prepared by him in Ex. M-2 were not to be accepted. 

(16) In Ex. M-3 M.W.l the Chartered Accountant has written that the actual 
gross earnings by the Contractor Arm Is to be reduced by Rs, 48,125-68 as that 
amount was not realised and is shown a$ profit in a wrong way in Ex. M-2. How- 
ever, the unions rightly contended that I am concerned with the writing in the 
balance sheet, and in the ProAt and Loss Statement that shows gross earnings 
as of that amount as shown in Ex. M-2, Inclusive of Rs. 48,125-68 which amount 
was originally expected to be realised as income, but that was not realised. 

(17) The unions sought clariAcatlon of the amount shown as employees con- 
tribution towards provident fund and such clurlAcation was given in Ex. M-13. 
The total wage bill paid by the Contractor is also set out in Ex. M-13. M.W.l 
correctly certiAed in Ex. M-13 that the amount of Rs. 2,00,802-00 was remitted to 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, Bangalore on those dates speciAed 
in Ex. M-13, The second objection raised Is about Income tax, that Is payable 
for the year in question. It is agreed that income-tax payable by the Arm, as 
well as the partners (to the extent of the proAts from this Arm) have to be provided 
for as an Item of deduction. One Ands that M.W.l Arst reduced the tax on the 
Arm by Rs. 1,44,493/- and that because partners were paying tax under the Income- 
tax Act. The law is that tax payable by the Arm is reduced from Income of 
partners and only balance of Income of partners is charged for income-tax and 
that Is what M.W.l has done M.W.l explained that Finance Act of 1969 came 
into force with effect from 1st April, 1969, and under it rate of tax was increased 
ending on. Because the Finance Act came hjto force on 1st April, 1909. this Arm 
had to pay an extra tax of Rs. 52,000 and odd for the year in question. The 
accounting year for this Arm was from 1st July, 1967, to 30th June, 1968, and the 



Sec. 3 (ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 97 1 /SR A V ANA 30, IK 93 4309 ' 


new Finance Act applied for the period till 31st March, 19(19 (and so ior the period 
from 1st April, 1968, to 30th June, 1968). The Unions contended that as Mercan- 
tile system of accounting was followed, in this Company, the actual liability arose 
on the date that such liability occurred and that right till 30th June, 1968, under 
the law then existing, the tax payable was less. The argument Is that the Finance 
Act was promulgated only on 1st April, 1909, and, when that is so, It Is urged 
that tax payable is to be ascertained under Finance Act of 1968 and the amount 
of tax determined that way, ignoring, so it is urged, the fact that Finance Act of 
I960 taxed glL incomes balanced and closed after 1st April, 1968, till 31st March, 
1909.' The Finance Act, of 1969 sets out the rate of tax payable for the assessment 
year, tax being payable on profits for the accounting year which is the previous 
year. Each company has the right to notify the previous year to the Income-tax 
department. The company had notified the previous year to be the year ending 
on 30th June, 1968, that is 18 months period preceding 30th June, 1968. As 
Finance Act came into force on 1st April, 1969, and the previous year ended on 
30th June, 1968, in law, the tax payable is at the rates specified under Finance 
Act of 1969. I therefore, find that the correct income-tax, that is payable, as 
set out in Section (7) of the Payment of Bonus Act, has been deducted in Ex. M-2. 

In the Metal Box case, the law is setforth that the tax payable for the year, at the 
rate prescribed by the Finance Act, is the deductable item. 

(18) The other objection raised is about deduction allowed to partners in terms 
Df the writjpg made in the Third Schedule under the Payment of Bonus Act and 
what each partner got is what is set out in Ex. M-5. M.W. 1 agreed that in no 
agreement profits were agreed to be divided as amongst the partners, and he 
referred to the writing made in Schedule 3 of the Payment of Bonus Act as 
authority to arrive at remuneration payable to partners. The learned counsel for the 
Management contended that, in the absence of agreement amongst partners to 
receive specified emoluments, as written in Third Schedule to the Payment of 
Bonus Act, I have got to allow only 25 per cent of the gross profits towards 
remuneration. 26 per cent of gross profits as partners remuneration is allowed 
as per writing in the 3rd Schedule to Payment of Bonus Act. Ex. M-2 reads that 
income for the year ending on 30th June, 1908, the gross profits as per Payment of 
Bonus Act is Rs. 6,35,342 and 23 per cent of the same is to be allowed as partners 
remuneration and it is seen that amount even more than the ' amount allowed in 
Ex. M-2 as the remuneration payable to the 3 partners, restricted to Rs. 48,000 per 
partner. I find Ex. M-2 is a correct work sheet statement. The correction made 
in Ex. M 3 is not accepted by me, for under the mercantile system of accounting 
the fact that the amount of Rs. 48,12.568 is not realised Is not what is relevant, 

for the above amount was payable by India Cements Ltd., and, surely, India 

Cements Ltd., has got the means to pay the amount. It Is nobody’s case that Bills 
for the amount were not genuine. The mere fact that Income-tax Department 
allowed that item of deduction cannnot mean that under the payment of Bonus 
Act, when I deal with profits as written in the balance sheet and when I allow 
national expenditure of income tax, I have the right to allow deduction for that 
sum, as Is wrong specified in Ex. M-3. 

(10) I agree that, when calculation notional income-tax payable, I have to 
allow for Income-tax payable on Rs. 48,12-68 namely 65 per cent of the above 
amount. I find that allocable surplus is Rs. 42,150. Ex. M-13 reads that the wage 
bill is Rs, 12,97,070-49 per year and 4 per cent of that is about Rs. 50,000 or so. 

(20) I may state here that it is not the contention by the Unions, that any 

set-off figure is available from allocable surplus in the previous two years, for, 
under settlements, as In the previous two years, it is agreed, during arguments, 
that more than what was due, under the Payment of Bonus Act was paid to the 
employees. The Management was not even summoned by the Unions to file the 
balance sheets and Profits and Loss Statements for the previous 2 years. 

(21) This contractor firm and the Union of workers had separate agreements, 
year after year. The Union therefore accepted the contractor firm to be the 
employer for these employees, with whom I am now concerned in this Industrial 
Dispute. The employer as defined in the Payment of Bonus Act, Is the person 
who has ultimate control on the establishment In question, The control over these 
employees Is only with the contractor firm, as is practically admitted. I find that 
India Cements Ltd., had no control over these employees of the contractor firm 
and that India Cements Ltd., is not liable to pay Bonus to these employees, 

(22) This award is passed to the effect that the workers of the employees of 
Contractor firm are not entitled to be paid bonus at 20 per cent of consolidated 
wages for 1967-68 and they will be, however, paid bonus only by the Contractor 



4310 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


firm at the minimum rate of 4 per cent, as under the Payment of Bonus Act, less 

bonus already paid to them for that year. 

Dated, this 30th day of June, 1971. 

(Sd.) T. K. Seetharama, 

Industrial Tribunal. 

WITNESS AND EXHIBITS: 

Witnesses Examined: 

For Workmen : 

W.W. 1 — Thiru P. R. Narayanan. 

W.W. 2 — Thiru S. K. Palaniappan. 

For Management: 

M.W. 1 — Thiru K. Venkatasubbiah Naidu, Chartered Accountant. 

Documents Marked 

For Workmen: 

W-l/26-8-68 — Copy of letter from the President of the India Cements Em- 
ployees’ Union to the Managements terminating the settlement. 

W-2/25-10-69 — Circular regarding bonus for the Aeounting year 1968-69. 

W-3/3-2-65— Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company to the 
Secretary, Star Construction quarry & Transport Employees Union, 
Sankari, implementing the Wage Board recommendations. 

W-4/3-8-69- — Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company, San- 
kari to the Secretary, Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em- 
ployees’ Union, Sankari regarding payment of arrears. 

For Management: 

M-l — Balance sheet as at 30-6-1963 in respect of Star Construction and 
Transport Company, Sankari. 

M-2/15-10-68 — Bonus work sheet of the Star Construction and Transport 
Company, Sankari. 

M-3/14-10-69 — Bonus worksheet for the Accounting year 1-7-67 to 30-6-68 of 
Star Construction and Transport Company, Sankari. 

M-4/ — Depreciation statement as on 30-6-69 of the Star Construction and 
Transport Company. 

M-5 — Statement showing tax due on income distributed to Partners of M/fl. 
Star Construction and Transport Company. 

M-6 — Statement of calculation of Firm Tax, for the Assessment 1969-70 in 
respect of M/s, Star Construction and Transport Company. 

M-7/31- 10-66— Copy of Memorandum of settlement under section 12(3) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act between the Star Construction and Trans- 
port Company and Star Construction Quarry and Transport employees 
Union, Sankari West. 

M-8/28- 10-67— — do— 

M-9/7-4-69 — Copy of settlement between the India Cements Employees’ 
Union, Sankari and the Managements. 

M-10/13-9-66 — Letter from Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em- 
ployees Union, Sankari to the Star Construction and Transport Com- 
pany for payment of Bonus for 1985-00. 

M-ll/11-10-67— Letter from Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em- 
ployees Union, Sankari to the Star Construction and Transport Com- 
pany for payment of bonus for th? year 1967. 

M-12/24-1-69 — Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company to 
the Secretary, India Cements Employees’ Union Sankari terminating 
the settlement. 

M-13/19-8-71 — Clarification of certain items in the balance sheet certified by 
M.W, 1. 

Sd/- 

Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. 36(48) /88-LR-IV.J 



Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4311: 


New Delhi, the 5th August, 1971 

i n P ursuanCe section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
rv 7 J ,L the Cent ral Government/ hereby publishes the following award of the 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1), Dhanbad. in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to Messrs Balaram & Brothers. Raising Con- 

iw'nm 1 ’ 1 d QS in I i ()n . Mines Messrs S. Lai and Company (Private) Idmited, 
Post Office Barbil, District Keonjhar (Orissa) and their workmen, which was 
received by the Central Government on the 28th July, 1971. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, DHANBAD. 
In tt I(LL7 iatter ° f a refeTenco under section 10(l)(d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 


Parties: 


Reference No. 38 of 1968 


Employers in relation to the Messrs Balaram & Brothers Raising Contractors 
in Kasia Iron Mines of Messrs S. Lai & Co. (Private) Limited. P.O.. 
Barbil, Dlst, Keonjhar (Orissa). 


AND 

Their Workmen. 

Present : 

Shri A, C. Sen, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers : None, 

For the Workmen: Shri H. Behra, General Secretary. 


State: Orissa, Industry: Iron Ore. 

Dhanbad, dated the 21st July, 1B71 
AWARD 

Under section 10(1) (d.) of the Indutrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Central Govern- 
ment by its order No. 37/6/68-LRI, dated New Delhi, the 17th May, 1968 referred 
the following dispute to this Tribunal for its adjudication; “Whether the refusal of 
employment to Sarvashri Chatan, Bhanj Bhongra, Budhua, Chambrai, Budhu and 
Shrimati Budhuni, Miners by Messrs Balaram & Brothers, Raising Contractors in 
Kasia Iron Ore Mines of Messrs S. Lai & Company (Private) Limited, Post Office 
Barbil. District. Keonjhar (Orissa) was unjustified? If so, to what relief are the 
workmen entitled? - ’ 

2. The workmen Involved in this case are members of Keonjhar Mines Forest 
Workers Union. It appears that the workers went on strike from 21st. December, 
3967 at the instance of the said union. According to the management a general 
notice was given by the management on 1st January, 1968 advising the workmen 
on strike to resumo their duties immediately, as the general strike called by the 
Union, was prohibited by the Government of India by notification No. S.O. 4663 
dated 28th December, 1968. 

3. Further case of the management is that subsequently another notice was 
given by the management on 18th January, 1968 asking the workmen to resume 
duties within seven days i.e. by 24th January, 1968 as the strike launched was called 
up on 18th January. 1968. According to the management the said two notices one 
dated 1st January, 1968 and the otner dated 18th January, 1968 were displayed 
in the notice board. Their further case Is that the names of the concerned work- 
men were struck out as they did not resume their duties till 24th Jaruary, 1968. 
The rest of the workers according to them joined their duties on or before that 
date. 

4. In paragraph 4 of the written statement filed by the workmen it has been 
stated that the management did not send any notice calling upon the workmen to 
joln their duties after the general strike had been called oil on 18th January, 1968 
and that no such notice was displayed in the notice board, nor was my copy of the 
notice sent to the union, 

5. In paragraph 5 of the written statement it has been stated that after the 
general strike had been called oil by the union all the workmen reported for duty- 



43 12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


to the employers on 18th January, 1968 but they were refused employment without 
assigning any reason for such refusal, 


6. In paragraph 6 of the written statement It has been stated that on such 
refusal of employment by the management the workmen concerned sent two 
representations on 26th January, 1963 to the employees by registered post with 
acknowledgement due, which were received on the 30th January, 1868 by the 
employers. It is further stated that no reply was given to those two letters by the 
employers. 


7. No one appeared on behalf of the management. Shrl H. Behra, General 
Secretary of the union appeared on behalf of the workmen and examined himself 
as witness No. 1 on behalf of the workmen. 


8. According to W.W.l, Shri Chambrai and Shrimati Budhuni reported for duty 
on 18th January, 1968 and worked upto 20th January, 1968 and that they were 
stopped from work thereafter. He has further stated that they sent an application 
dated the 26th January, 1968 protesting against such stoppage. His further evi- 
dence is that Shri Bhanj Bhongra, Budhu, Budhua and Chatan reported fpr work 
on 19th January 1968 but that they were not allowed to resume their duties. They 
also, according to him, sent a letter to the employers on 26th January, 1968 pro- 
testing against the conduct of the management. The two letters both dated the 
26th January, 1968 were marked as Exts. W1 and W2. The acknowledgement 
(eceipt was marked as W2(a). 


9. In Ext. W1 appears inter-alia L.T.Is of Chambrai and Budhuni. The relevant, 
portion of the letter runs thus: “We Joined our duties and worked up to 20th 
January. 1968. But from 22nd January, 1968 we have stopped marking attendanbe 
without assigning any reason and also did not give us the weekly concession rice 
on 25th January. 1968. I therefore make this application in writing to pay us the 
full wages and full concession rice from 22nd January, 1968 onwards”. 


10. Ext. W2 bears the signatures of Bhanj Bhongra and L.T.Is of Budhu, 
Budhuni. Budhua and Chatan. The relevant portion of the said letter runs thus: 
‘The strike has been called off from 18th January, 1968- As we were not present 
in our hutments on the above date, we could not join our duties on 18th January, 
1968 but we reported for our duties on 19th August, 1908 but regret to say that 
you have not allowed us to resume our duties. We therefore make this applica- 
tion in writing and request you to please allow us to resume our duties with imme- 
diate effect and also pay us the wages from 19th January, 196B”. 


11. These two exhibits clearly show that the version of the employers that the 
workmen concerned were dismissed because the}' did not resume their duties on or 
before 24th January, 1968 is not correct. That being so the summary dismissal of 
these workmen cannot be justified. 


12. Even assuming thut the version given by the management as to why these 
workmen were dismissed is correct it is clear that they were dismissed without any 
departmental enquiry. In the standing orders Ext. W3 1 , there is no provision for 
automatic termination of service without investigation. That being the case Ihe 
dismissal of the workmen concerned without any domestic enquiry is thoroughly 
unjustified. . I accordingly make the following award: “The refusal of employment 
to Sarvashri Chatan Bhanj Bhongra, Budhua, Chambrai, Budhu and Shrimati 
Budhuni, Miners by M/s. Balaram and Brothers, Raising Contractors in Kasia Iron 
Mines of Messrs S. Lai and Co,(P) Ltd., was thoroughly unjustified and they are 
to be reinstated with back wages subject to the deduction of the amounts, if any, 
which they might have received in the meantime on account of wages. The back 
wages are to be calculated on the footing that they have been in continuous 
service uptill now. 


13. This is my award. Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Centra] 
^Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1 947 . 


A. C. Sen, Presiding Officer. 
[No. 37/6/08-LR.IV.I 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4313 


New Delhi, the 7th August 1071 

S.O. 3070. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 
■of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, in the industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the Amlabad Colliery of Messrs BhowTa 
Kankanee Collieries Limited. Post Office BhowTa (Dhanbad) and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 31st July, 1971. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(NO. 2) DHANBAD 


Present : 

Shri Nanagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 22 of 1970 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S. 10 (l)(d) of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947. 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Amlabad Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee 
Collieries Limited, Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad). 

And 

Their workmen 


Appearances : 

On behalf of the employers : None. 

On behalf of the workmen : Shri Ram Mitra Secretary, Bihar Koyala 
Mazdoor Sabha. 

State: Bihar, Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, 28th July, 1971 
AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Amlabad Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Khanknnee Collieries Limited. Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad) and their workmen, 
bv its order No. 2/113/70-LRII dated 30th October, 1970 referred to this Tribunal 
under S. 10 (1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute 
In respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed thereto. The schedule 
is extracted below 


Schedule 

"Whether the transfer of Bhri Bindeswar Mahato, Onsetter from Amlabad 
Colliery 0/ Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited. Post office 
Bhowra (Dhanbad) to Madhuband Colliery of Messrs Oriental Coal 
Company Limited, Post office Nudkhurkee (Dhanbad) w : th effect from 
the 25th April, 1970 Is justified? If not. to what relief is the work- 
man entitled?” 

2. Workmen as well as the employers filed their statement of demands. 

3. Admittedly, the affected workmen. Bindeswar Mahato was working as an 
Onsetter at Amlabad Colliery and he was transferred to Madhuband Colliery with 
effect from 25th April. 1970 by a letter of the same date issued under the signa- 
ture of the Project Officer of M/s. Thaper Intrafor Co. of India Ltd. Now, the 
case of the workmen is that Amlabad and Madhuband collieries do not have 
common management and the two collieries belong to two different limited com- 
panies and M/s. Thaper Intrafor Co. were contractors engaged by the manage- 
ment of Amlabad Colliery and. as such the transfer of the affected workman to 
Madhuband Colliery was unjust. It is further stated that the affected workman 
protested to the management of Amlabad Colliery and under pressure of the 
management reported for duty at Madhuband colliery but the authority of Madhu- 
band Colliery refused to provide him with the job which he was doing at Amlabad 
and when the affected workman returned and reported at Amlabad Colliery the 
management of Amlabad Colliery did not consider anything and verbally stated 
that the services of the affected workman were terminated. " The employers filed 
the statement pleading that there was no relationship of employer and employee 
between them and the affected workman as the affected workman was employed 



4314 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


under M/s. Thaper Intrafor Co. of India Ltd., who were appointed by the manage- 
ment of Amlabad colliery as their contractors for sinking shafts in Amlabad 
Colliery. It is admitted that Amlabad Colliery and Madhuband Colliery were own, 
ed by separate limited companies but it is pleaded that since 1st July 1969 M/s. 
Oriental Coal Co. Ltd. has acquired the Collieries originally owned by M/s. Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Ltd. and therefore both the Collieries are now under the same 
management since the above date. At the outset the employers have taken a 
legal objection that the reference Itself is incompetent, inasmuch as at no point 
of time any dispute was raised by the workmen with the management. The work- 
men were represented by Shrl Earn Mltra, Secretary, Bibar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha. At the earlier stage the employers were represented by Shri R. B. Singh. 
Personnel Officer. On 22nd May, 1971 no one appeared for the employers although 
that was the date finally fixed at the request of the employers for documents. On 
18th June 1971 Shri K. C. Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer appeared 
for the employers but without authority, On 29th June 1971 and 12th July. 1971 

no one appeared on behalf of the employers without any information and, con- 

sequently the case proceeded in accordance with Rule 22 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Central) Rules, 1957. On admission by the workmen, Exts. Ml and M2 were 

marked for the employers. On behalf of the workmen a witness was examined 

and Exts. W.l to W.6 were marked. Till today also no information is received 
from the employers. 

4. At the outset I propose to take up the objection raised by the employers. 
The workmen have pleaded that after receiving the transfer order the affected 
workman protested to the management of Amlabad Colliery against his transfer 
and the pleading is emphatically denied by the employers. The affected workman 
is examined as WW. 1 and he says that after he received the transfer, Ext. W. 1 
he submitted an application, the original of Ext. W. 4 to the manager of Amlabad 
Colliery. He has also identified the initials of O. P. Manehandani, the manager on 
Ext. W. 4 as in token of having received the original of Ext. W. 4. Ext. W. 4 is 
dated 27th April, 1970 and the date under the initial of the Manager is 28th April, 
1970. It is only 3 days alter the transfer order, Ext. W. 1 was issued. Ext. W. 4 
refers to the transfer of the affected workmen to Madhuband Colliery and requests 
the manager to cancel the transfer order. WW. 1 has further deposed that since 
about 3 years he Is the Secretary of the Amlabad branch of Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha, that when he submitted the original of Ext. W. 4 to the manager of Aml- 
abad Colliery he was accompanied by Ram Mitra, Secretary, Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha and Ram Mitra also pleaded with the manager not to transfer the affected 
workman to Madhuband Colliery and to take back the transfer order, Ext. W. 1. 
From this evidence it is abandantly proved that only 3 days after receipt of the- 
transfer order. Ext. W. 1 the affected workman as well as the Secretary. Bihar 
Koyala Mazdoor Sabha, the union which raised the present industrial dispute 
demanded of the manager of Amlabad Colliery to take back the transfer order and 
the manager refused to do so. There is no rebuttal evidence. Hence, the objec- 
tion of the employers cannot sustain and it is over ruled. 

5. The contention oC the employers is that there has never been employer 
employee relationship between them and the affected workman. According to the 
employers the affected workman was an employee of the contractors, M/s. Thaper 
Intrafor Co. of India Ltd. and that the transfer order. Ext. W. 1 was issued by 
the Project Manager of M/s. Thaper Intrafor Co. of India Ltd. It is admitted by 
the employers that Amlabad Colliery belonged to M/s, Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Ltd. and Madhuband Colliery to M/s. Oriental Coal Company Ltd. It it also 
admitted by the employers in para 6 of their statement that the job of Onsetter 
is a job of competent person under the Coal Mines Regulations and that, accord- 
ingly the manager of Amlabad colliery had issued appointment letters to the 
affected workman under the Coal Mines Regulations, However, it is pleaded 
that with effect from 1st July, 1969 M/s. Oricnal Company Ltd. has acquir- 
ed the Collieries owned by M/s. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd. Firstly, this 
contention has no relevancy, inasmuch os the transfer order, Ext. W. 1 is not issued 
by the Manager of Amlabad Colliery appointed either by M/s. Oriental Coal Co. 
Ltd. or M/s Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd. Secondly, there Is no evidence that 
with effect from 1st July, 1969 M/s. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd. have ceased 
to be the owners and M/s. Oriental Coal Company Ltd. have become the owners 
of Amlabad Colliery. Exts. W 2 and W. 3 are appointment letters issued in 
accordance with clause 36 of the Coal Mines Regulations, 1937. As pointed out 
by me above, they are admitted by the employers as having been issued by the 
manager of Amlabad Colliery owned by M/s. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd. 
That apart, WW. 1 was proved the signatures of the manager as well as his- 
own signature and thumb impression on them. Ext. W. 2 Is dated 28th June, 1968 
and Ext, W. 3 dated 8th September, 1969. Clause 36(1) of the regulations lays 
down that the owner, agent or manager shall appoint the competent persons. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4315 


Sub-clause (2) of the clause says that it shall be the responsibility of the manager 
to see that no person shall be so appointed unless he is paid by the owner or 
agent and is answerable to the manager. It should be presumed that the manager 
of Amlabad Colliery had issued the appointment letters, Exts, W.2 and W.3 hav- 
ing taken care t 0 see that the affected workman was paid by the owner or agent 
before the appointment letters were issued to him. There is no evidence of the 
manager to the contra. Now 1 , the employers M/s. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Ltd. cannot be heard to say that the affected workman was not their employee 
or that he was the employee of the contractors, M/s. Thaper Intrafor Co. of India 
Ltd. or that the Project Manager of the contractors was competent to transfer 
him to Madhuband Colliery. 

6 . I, therefore, hold that the transfer of the affected workman, Bindeswar 
Mahato, Onsetter from Amlabad Colliery of M/s. Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited, Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad) to Madhuband Colliery of M/s. Oriental 
Coal Company Limited, Post Office Nudkhurkee (Dhanbad) with effect from the 
25th April, 1970 was not justified and, consequently, h should bt treated as being 
continuing in service in his job as Onsetter and he is entitled to his wages and 
all other emoluments with effect from the above date. The award is made accord- 
ingly and submitted under S. 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 2/113/70-LRII.] 

S.O. 3071. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
•f 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 20, Dhanbad, in the industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari 
Colliery belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Sijua 
(Dhanbad) and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government 
on the 27th July, 1970. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) AT 

DHANBAD 


Present: 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Reference No. 4 of 1971 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under S. 10(1) (d) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari Colliery 
belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited, Post Office, Sijua 
(Dhanbad) 

And 

Their workmen. 

Appearances: 

On behalf of the employers,— Shri B. Joshi, Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen . — Shri B. M. Prosad, Advocate. 

State: Bihar, Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad, 24 th July 1971 
AWARD 

The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari Colliery 
belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Sijua (Dhanbad) 
and their workmen, by its order No. 2/135/70-LR.II dated 11th December, 1970 
referred to this Tribunal under S.10(l) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule 
annexed thereto. The schedule is extracted below: 

Schedule 

"Whether the action of the management of North Tetulmari Colliery belong- 
ing to Tetulmari Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua (Dhanbad) in 



43X6 .IKE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II — • 


dismissing Shri Rambaran Singh, Fan Khalasi with effect from the 
14th February,- 1970 was justied? If not, to what relief is the work- 
man entitled?” - . 

2. On 19th June 1971 the affected workman Rambaran Singh appeared in per- 
son and also was represented by Shri B. M.' Prosad, Advocate. The employers 
were represented bv Shri B. Joshi, Advocate. Parties filed a compromise memo 
string that the dispute in respect of dismissal of the affected workman was ami- 
cably settled, that the affected workman had received all his legal dues, that the 
affected workman is working in another colliery and that no dispute award may 
be passed.' The compromise memo -Was accompanied by an affidavit and the com- 
promise memo is duly verified. I consider the compromise as beneficial -to the 
affected workman and is in the interest of industrial peace. The compromise 
memo is therefore, accepted and the award is made in terms of the compromise 
and submitted under s. 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. The compromise 
memo is annexed herewith and is made part of the Award. 

(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 
Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, 
(No, 2) Dhanbad. 

BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO. 2 AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 4 of 1971 

Employers ' in relation to North Tetulmari Colliery 

And 

Their' workmen. 


Compromise petition 

The joint petition on behalf of the employers above named and the concerned 
workman, Shri Rambaran Singh, most respectfully sheweth; — 

1. That the concerned workman has amicably settled the dispute With the 

employers. 

2. That the concerned workman has received all his legal dues and has no 

claim whatsoever with the management, 

). That the concerned workman is working in another colliery and has no 
intention to serve at North Tetulmari colliery any further. 

4. That the concerned workman has sworn affidavit which is enclosed! 

herewith. 

5. That the concerned workman does not press his claim for reinstatement 

with full back wages and other benefits any further and does not 
authorise any Union to do so on his behalf. 

6. That the employers have undertaken to take all steps for regularisation 

of P.F. account of the concerned workman so that no difficulty may 
arise at the time of withdrawal of the same. 


It is humbly prayed that the Hon’ble Tribunal be graciously pleased to record, 
the compromise petition and pass no dispute Award. 


For the workmen 
(Sd.) Ramraran Singh, 
Concerned workman 
(Sd.) Tiiakur Prasad Jha 
H ead Clerk 


For the Employers 
(Sd.0 Illegible. 
Partner 
(Sd,) B. Joshi, 
Advocate 


Witness: 

(Sd.) B. M. Prasad, 
Advocate. 


19-6-71. 


[No. 2/135/70-LRIL1 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4317 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 20th May '• 1071 "■ " 

S.O. 8072. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to thfe management of Khas 
Joyrampur Colliery of Messrs. Khas Joyrampur Colliery Co'mpahy Private 
Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters apecied in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal (No. 1), Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. ' - 


Schedule 

“Whether the stoppage of work of Shri Rupan Bhuian, Surface Trammer , 
by the management of Khas JoyrampLir-. Colliery of Messrs. Khas 
Joyrampur Colliery Company Private Limited, Post Office Jharia, 
District Dhanbad with effect from the 9th July 1970 is justied 7 If 
not, to what relief the workman is entitled ? 

[No. L/2012/76/71-LRIL] 

(sir wk fewFT) 

df fa'dl, 26 df , 1971 

(pro wro 3072 . — t-t: %-= s>r rrdtfr 7dd Tirffij Nd'jTf ft fafafare: 
Twpri % jk irpiff tin xrTfrtTjT tinto ttotI ( ) frid??, warn, 

fjsrr wrj ofr tor^t TlftTffd %■ supwro tr d tnt 

■TdTRT % #Vt RE fTRT fRCRTR 

sfk dd: TfTR T4d fd-TO 411 idTdfffiddd % 1%<7 fd?ftld TPT1 RTS fid 

Tldddl %) 

ST:, dd, dtdtfldl fadld dfafddd, 1947 ( 1947 4H 14) 4?1 WTO 10 4?[ 
TieiTO ( 1) % (d) sto d<fT wjnro dir srtftrr tgt fi, %«Vd d^rc ot^to 

nit fsrsrr? 411 tw srfafddd 4?r wro 7-41 % wrtd dPsd «frsTfd4i wfaTror (wit 1 ) , 

MJ4K 411 TOdfdddd % fd<7 fdffdd 4TOtl | I 


***** 

“497 Odd 4Tld TKTOdJT ^rfddft TPTdl 511?td f<-rFd£d, RTfrdT 
wfddf, fdTT HddM 43T dTTd dlTOdJT (fttfddfl % PTOStTOd 3 TO Nl fTd 
RJdf, ddd j?dT 4H 9 1 9 70 § TFT d*7 4TOH ^dTdtfdd | ? dfd 

djft, cfl 4NfirT fdd 411 % ? 

[do C[do/ 2012/76/7 l-Pd'o4nr«>-2] 
New Delhi, the 29th May 1971 

S.O. 3673, — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
■dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singarenl Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Ramagundam Division, Post Office Godavari Khani, (Andhra 



4318 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II — 


Pradesh) and their workmen ip respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 1 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T. Chandrasekhara Reddy, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at AfzaF 
Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote, Hyderabad-I, and refers the said dispute for adjudi- 
cation to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Rama- 
gundam Division, Post Office Godavari Khani (Andhra Pradesh) are 
justified in terminating the services of Sarvashri Metta Lingaiah. Sal la 
Manthaiah and Syed Jani, Loading and Un-loading Mazdoors in the 
Coal Screening Plant, Godavari Khani, Ramagundam Division-I with 
effect from the 30th August, 1970? If not, to what relief are the 
workmen entitled? 

[No. 7 / 50 / 70-LR.II.}' 


R^ ftcRt, 29 1971 

Wo Wo 3073. — HR RHRREr W-JRdl R 

fHHHf % HR if Tifrprft^r WHRt fafERR, TTH1HRH fcjflRH, RRHT RtffiHfl R?fl 

(WOT^tr)llr RISER fEHlRTt «flT THHTf7HT % SfTff err nVjifffT fffHTR fRHHTR 

wk HR. %RftH H7TR RER fWH Tt fHTHft ,3 fHH % fat* fRRftlR TTHT HTCHIH HH0 

t; 

wr:, HR, tfllftfHTfRRTH HfnfRHHr 1947 ( 1947^1 14) Eft RRT 7-T Hk 
RRT 10 Eft RERRT ( l) % WS (r) SETT HER ElfEEHT EH HEIR ERft 
R7.TR tiRESRT sflRtfHT HfHERR Hfcft ERRt $, fRH% <ftSTHtR HfsTTRV Ht o Rf o 

WSEP3R fRHTT HkHTRH HTRR rVr, fRRT TIT, TTHETte ft ERR R- 1 ftW 

«fl7 HER f%RTT EH RER H’lTHfCT nfSTERR Eft RTEfftREff % fRE fftffRR > 57 # | I 

WT^ 

EHT fHHftftt EftfRE^R EEHHt WHS®, 7JETERH fesfiRH, 1TTR7 HlETEft HfifT 
(HtW 5f^N )% SHFR HSR EH E?lR cRTR, HtETHTft RRt, TTHTHSH fftsf[RR- 1 if' 

TtRRT fRHHTf , HIcRT HHHT?, HRRT HEHHT? Elk $HE Rlftt, Rtf¥H HR HR-RtfRT 
HR$Tf Eft 30 WHR, 1 970 % ftETH HHTR ERHT fElHlpHR | ? Efo R^t, Rl H^TR fEHT 
WTRtH % ?TER | ? 

[iio 7/50/70— 0[Ro HI to — 2 ] 


S.O. 3074. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers ip relation to the management of 
Messrs. Bhowra Colliery of Messrs, ' Orintal Coal Company Limited, Post Office 
Bhowra, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
jection (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the; 



■Sec. 3 (il) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4319 


Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to tha 
•Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1). Dhanbad constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

‘■'Whether the action of the management , of Messrs. Bhowra Colliery of 
Messrs. Oriental Coal Compay Limited, Post Office Bhowra, District 
Dhanbad, in not making permanent Shri Jagdish Bhuian, Smt. Dholl 
Bhuian, Smt. Munkwa Bhuian and Smt. Kapurwa Bhuian, Stacker 
Mazdoors and in stopping them from work with effect from the 5th 
March, 1971 is justied ? If not, to what relief are the workmen 
entitled 7” 


[No. L/20 12/ 68/7 1-LRIL] 

«FTo Wo 30 74. — Td: TORVf UT | fo ffdT TTR-sT ^ 

fTtfi % fir ptt ^ trlrTr, ftr^r 

'ERSTf Td tYu drrfT'TU % H-T-tr & Hfirar faifrsHTf tfK UdT TTTTTT % 
srifftfTT fTWrl ; 

sfh: tt: %-xtT frwn; fadr* Tt TT-rr qlEFflrar 

; 

tfd: *Td, Pd dr? tffaR'TT, 19 47 ( 1947 W 14) «f?f EUTT 10 tY 

s'TtrRr ( 1 ) (*r) mr srp=r Tii^TTf Tr surYrr jt?, 

HJTflTCT 3W fadTd Tfd 5rfiffdTJT YY STITT 7-T % trsftd dfed Y^fpf 
•etft sjYsftfYw trrtTFOT (iw 1) wtri cY ;mlVm % fd?fer ?. i 


‘tyn ddd -fft i t-ttY fdfdY?, ?htst eYt, fa$rr srddTd qft ddh 

dYu^rdd^%d^ddrd fY ^dK>d^?Tr, ! rrTT>sfr?r>^'rr, MYddY 
%f\x N>ddf f jdT dr rr. - l fir pirju tY ?drqY d drY did 5 nrY, 1971 Y dur 

trrd Y tYfY dr'r hiTdrt ?TrdYNti | ? dfd deff, eft tYtt fYrd stdrYddr | ? 

[#£> tT5fo/2012/68/71-4^oitnT«.-2] 


New Delhi, the 5th June 1971 

S.O. 3075. — Where as the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis- 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of New Gpvindpur Colliery 
Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dainbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed : 


And whereis the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication: 

No,v therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub-section (i), 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribuna 1 (No. i)j 
© hanbad, const tuted und t secton 7A of the said Act. 



4320 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 971 /SR A VAN A 30, 1893 [Pakt II— 


Schedule 

‘ ‘ Whether the following 96 Miner? ("coal cutters) of Bottom Incline of New Gorin dpu 
Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh, District Dhonbad are entitled to wage? for the period 
of their idleness with effect from the 6th February, 1968 to the 14th February, 1968 ? 
If not, to what other relief the Workmen are entitled ?” ' 


SI, Name Designation 

No. 


2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

to 

11 

ia 

13 

14 

15 

16 

17 

18 

19 

2Q 

21 

22 

23 

24 
2J 
26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 

47 

48 

49 
5° 
5i 
5» 

53 

54 

55 


Shri Mangal Mahato 
„ Khage Mahato 
„ J air am Mahato 
„ Toppa Mahato 
„ Ledo Mahato c/o Jadu Mahato 
„ Bhuklal Mahato 
,, Janki Mahato 
„ Mohan Mahato 
„ Shyamlal Mahato 
„ Raghunath Mahato 
„ Govind Mahato , 

„ Ganesh Mahato 
„ Hari Singh. 

„ Phari Dhobi 
„ Bihari Dhobi 
,, Ramcshwar Dhobi 
„ Dilawar Mian 
„ Haiyat Mian 
„ Tilku Rajwar 
„ Etwari Chamar 
,, Ch. Moti Chamar 
„ Ch. Bhudhan Chamar . 

„ Ch. Sukar Chamar 
„ Nanhu Chamar 
„ Ch. Kishan Chamar 
„ Ch. Banwari Chamar . 

„ Kamdeo Chamar 
,, Chedi Chamar No. 2 
,, Doman Chamar 
,, Br. Banshi Chamar , 

„ Kheman Chamar 
„ Ch. Chhotu Chamar 
,, Parmeshwar Chamar . 

„ Ratan Chamar 
,, Br. Ruplal Chamar 
„ Balku Chamar 
„ Suku. Chamar , 

„ Rupan Chamar 
„ Bhikan Chamar 
„ Mehgan Chamar 
„ Pandu Chamar 
„ Ch. Sarju Chamar 
„ Bhola Chamar 
„ Kharkee Mahato 
„ B. Chhotu Chamar . 

„ Puran Chamar 
„ Jogeshwar Chamar 
„ Chhadi Chamar 
,, Debt Chamar . . 1 

„ Gopal Chamar 
„ Puna Chamar 
„ Sambhu Baurt 
„ Hari Bauri .... 

„ B. Sanoo Chamar 
„ Madhuwa Chamar 


Miner 

33 

13 

3) 

5? 

33 
>3 
31 
13 
33 
>3 
33 
33 
>3 
33 
13 
33 
33 
33 
33 > 

33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 1 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
3 * 

33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
*3 
33 
33 
3) 

33 
33 
33 
33 
33 
33 


\ 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE, GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 . 1971 /SRAVA^A 30 , 1893 4321 


SI. Name Designation 

No. 


56 

Shri 

Ledwa Chamat 



# _ 

Miner 

57 


Chunia Chamar 



' * 


58 


Ch. Somra Chamar . 




»! 

59 


Latlaha Chamar 





60 


Budhuwa Chamar 




.1 

6l 


Jharia Chamar 





62 


Kid Chamar 





63 


Bhakru Chamar 





64 


B, Churaman Mahato . 




33 

65 


Babulal Das 





66 


Ch. Jhagroo Chamar , 





67 


B. Margra Chamar 





63 


Haria Chamar 





69 


Degwa Chamar s/o Pilia Chamar 




70 


Trkba Chamar s/o Manika 

Chamar 



71 


Ch. Ruplal Chamar , 





72 


Indra Chamar 





73 

11 

Thakur Ma)hi 




»,v 

74 

53 

Benga Bouri 




3> 

75 


Thamta Bouri 




33 

76 


Randal Chamar 




>j' 

77 


Churaman Chamar 





78 


A'.ohan Chamar 





79 


Prasadi Chamar 





80 


Bara Kishun Chamar . 





81 


Brihaspatia Chamar 





82 


Dhanjia Chamar 





83 


Vrshwanath Chamar 





84 


Lakhia Kumhar 





85 


Mukund Tun 





86 


Chhota Maugal Chamar 





87 


Mouji Chamar 





88 


Shyamlal Chamar 





89 


Panchu Chamar 





90 


Bikhoo Chamar 





9i 


Bara Moti Chamar 





92 


Mithoo Chamar 





93 


Bara Sukho Chamar , 





94 


Lalji Chamar 





95 

33 

Chandulal Manjhi 





96 

>1 

Bara Banwari Chamar 

• 

• 

■ 

33 


L[No. L/ac 


^ 5 ^T, 19 71 

1 I 

WTo 3075. — Rtf: d<+K YY TUT | far ^9 HIS ST^ft it 

fVfafa^ fwfr t ttt ir kt YffaFTnY ^famt, sir^n; wirftj, fanrr, wi % sr^^r 

% ddY> 'pTTTRt % Clu tpi sffarYfaTRy |j!)i||4 f^'HM ^ ; 

<ftr J ur: ^Yr ?tor farrc tY ^Trrfai’jfTT %■ 1 fan* farffaier ^rqr ^toHYr 

B Bluff | ; 

«RT. w*, wteftfarc: farr^ ^TfafapuT, 1947 ( 1947 tt 14 ) «fr lira 10 ^R- 

ETKf ( l) % W* (tl) 3T7T ST5TT wfaefaY TT TtYt ^ |tr %^-q- TOR ^STTT 

t*t fanr *eY ^et sifarfartni Yt tnrr 7 -t % mffa- trfer ettr sfarYfar* 

wfir=FTir (tim 1 ) , sfuipu ^Y % far it fafafftr?r vr^fY 1 1 



4322 THE GAZETTE Of INPIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30. 1893 

[Part II — 


+4| HlfV'-'Vj -L SUPR fTOTf ^ 1 i+i St^TT-T % 


«nT 96^TT («blAH'| 6 ITOlft, 1968*1 14 TRTCt, 1968 # 

yt grsrfsr % ftrq % ^rcf ? grt % 

pr^rr f ? 


■TPr 

TSTPT 

1 . 

sft ’PPM R^Tcft ..... 

’Tpl'kfp 

2 . 

, , U (4 TfiJIcft ..... 

► i 1 

3. 

„ 3PRPT TT^TTt ..... 

* 1 J 

4. 

M llWTE^fT ..... 

► } 1 

5. 

, , RfTrft SHT TRRt .... 

■ 7 f 

6 . 

,, R3RTW RgTflT ..... 

* n 

7. 

,, STPRt TT^TTt ..... 

* ) t 

8 . 

,, Tftijpf RgTcft ..... 

* / ) 

9- 

,, WFWR 6 £Tdl ..... 

* 1 j 

10 - 

,1 TEUIT'T ■M^jIcTt ..... 

» ) i 

11 . 

„ R^Rft ..... 

■ 1 1 

12 . 

1 1 ^T^PfT R^fTcfT ..... 

♦ n 

13. 

„ 

* 1 

14. 

,, <13X1 eftst ..... 

* > 8 

15. 

1 1 faSjft Eftsft . . ... 

• n 

16. 

n TPlWT tfMl ..... 

• ? ) 

17. 

,, fwm fw ..... 

■ ) » 

18. 

,, ^TTRT frpTT ..... 

* 1 1 

19. 

1 , u^rrs ..... 

- j > 

2 0 . 

,, <1341(1 -491 < ..... 

. j , 

21 . 

,, =5fto iM ..... 

. n 

22 . 

,, ^0 wet to: ..... 

* } 1 

2 3. 

,, =5f\o TOTTT ..... 

* f t 

24. 

t, 'T^ TOTR ..... 

* 1 

2 5. 

„ ^0 fv^R TOTR ..... 

■ ; j 

2 6 . 

„ =^0 <TOT 0 M^TR ..... 

» 1 > 

27. 

„ +1*^4 TO ..... 

* ; » 

28. 

,, HER ?fwi 2 .... 

■ 7 1 

29. 

fj ^ * . ♦ 4 * 

* n 

3 0. 

,, 3fo ^gft w* ..... 

* ; i 

31. 

„ UUPTTOTR ..... 

* 1 7 

32. 

,, =^o ..... 

* i ) 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SR A VAN A 3D, 1893 4323 


'TOl'P 

TOE 

3 3. 

mowt tottc: 

3 4. 

,, TOT TOTTT 

3 5. 

,, 4T 0 TOIK . 

3 6 . 

,, TO4T tout 

■37. 

„ 55 TOUT . 

.38. 

, , tote toft 

39. 

,, fTOTOff TOTTC 

•40. 

,, '4 HI <, 

-41. 

,, TTTTTOTTT 

-42. 

n T*to TOTR 

4 3- 

, , sflm TOTTT 

■ 44. 

,, TflTT 

4 5. 

,, 4t° 'StS W 

46. 

„ ^TO THTC 

47. 

, , tottc 

-48. 

, , TOFT 

49. 

,, TOFT 

50. 

,, Ttrrar toft 

.51. 

, , ^to toft 

:5 2. 

, , TOTO TYfY 

5 3. 

,, 5 ft 4W 

5 4. 

,, TOETOFT 

5 5. 

, , TOiJTO W 

1 1 O 

5 6 . 

,, SFTTO to: 

.5 7. 

,, tThhi -hh 1 T 

58. 

, , Tto tout ettot . 

.59. 

,, TOTTOfJT 1 HK 

6 0 . 

,, ECTTO TO 

61. 

, , ET KH 1 EH 1 / 

6 2 . 

„ farfe TOFT 

.63. 

„ ftotoft 

64. 

,, TO° TOUFE F^tTO 

-65. 

,, TOTOTiTT TOF 

-66. 

,, ^0 TO 1 T ehk 

67. 

,, TOo niy'i hhk 

m 

,, ^fTTOTOFT 

6 9. 

, , TOtto to wthf fTOftro ftot 

7 0. 

,, Jtto 31 K wtof FfTOfiT toft 


'OTT 




J t 




4324 THE G AZE TTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II — 





71. 

sfr 

tafSTF 

7 2. 

,, mw 

1 t 

73. 

, , sif : x trrcft 

1 | 

74. 

,, . 

* < - ■ 1 I 

7 5. 

i, fTFfTT 

1 ^ 

7 6. 

,, TTWPT wn 

. • ■ • ) » 

77. 

„ 

■ . ♦ . )y 

7 8. 

,, TRTT 

It 

79. 

,, tropfV ttg; 

ft 

8 0. 

,, «ki f't'tdd 4R K 

• . » ■ Ip 

81. 


* * * ■ 1 1 

8 2. 

, , smfwr wit 

■ * • 'IJ 

83. 

, , fwnTPI 

) >. 

8 4. 


. , , . 

85. 

.. 

* * « • It 

86. 

, , WlCT *F r TH' dh|T 

)j 

87. 

,, mHK 

M 

88. 

„ wwra w? 

■ * * * it 

89. 

„ 

« . . * it 

9 0. 

,, foa; wr 

* - • * n 

91. 

„ tMr wr 

• ■ ♦ • it 

92. 

>. 

* » • * ; t 

93. 

n “TRT <j<at dhlT 

* * * * it 

94. 

,, HM'jfl 

* * * * 1 1 

95. 

, , •niffT 

J T 

96. 

, , xix r ^r^rrfr 

- ’ - * > > 



[fTW tr^\o/ 2 0 1 2/ 1 9/7 l-tr?T°*TK°-2] 


New Delhi_, the 

17 th June 1971 


8 . 0 . 3076 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinio* that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Central 
Sulunga Colliery of Mcs(ts. Purusottampiff’ Collieries Private Limited, Post 
Office Jharia, District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1), Dhanbad, constituted under 
•ection 7A of the said Act. 


Sec. 3 (H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1593 4325: 


Schedule 

"Whether the dismissal Of Shri Gohali Mian, Overman, by the management 
of Central Sulunga Colliery of Messrs. Purusottampur Collieries 
Private Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad with effect from, 
the 22nd December, 1970 is justified T If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled?” 

[No. L/2012/T5/71-LRII.J 

Hi f*cTO, 17 TJff, 1971 

WT° 3076 . — TOT: WR TO TFT | f% TTFTJ *TT$TO h' 

fafTO*'T fTOrTO V if 'JsTOfTTOJT TOfTOkkr TOT TO fTOTOT, TTTOTO TOW, 
f^m tfTOITT TO TOTTT TOlfTOrTO % TTOJ % RTTOJ fTOiTOTO Ilk TTOfi TOTTOTf 
% TOt trsp TOTOTOlT fWT fwiH £ ; 

TOt TOT; TOfPT TOTTOT TTT fwT TO 'TO-TOff TTOf % fTOf fTOffirffi TOCTT TOfffPT 
TTHBlTO % ; 

ter:, wto TOTOfror fimr wfwfki k, 1947 (1947 to 14) TO srrrr 10 TO 

TTtTRT (l) V TO (rr) jrt 5RTf TOTOTO TO TTFT TTff f*, TOTOt TOR ^TOJITT 
RTrf fTOTK TO TOFT TOTOfTOPT TO ETRT 7-TO % TR-fTO TOTOr 'tTOlR TTTTOT TOTOfTOF TOff- 
TOM (TOSTT 1 ) , TORTT TO TOTTOTOrTOT % fTOf fTOftm TOfTO I I 

wrijTO 

"tot ^TTOrrtrjT TOfTOrrr^ Jrr?ro fTOTOTOr, tpp^t TOtto, fron 
totot? TO TfjRT TOfTOrTO % stf-twito-t jitt TO TOifrTO fTOTO, TOtt- 
TOT, TO 22 f*TORT, 1 970 % TO^fT TOTOT TOTTOfTOT | ? TO* TO TOTTOT 
fTOr totTOt to fRR | ?” 

JTOo tTffo 201 2/75/7 l-t[To WT° 2] 


New Delhi, the 29th June 1971 

S.O. 8077. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Mahabir 
Colliery, Post Office Raniganj, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
cLapute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act. 


Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Mahabir Colliery, Post Office 
Raniganj, District Burdwan in refusing employment to Sarvashri 
Gopal Hemram, Sankar Majhi, Khepa Hemram. Sukhu Mgjhi, Badan 
Maihi and Lattu Hari, Pick-miners, with effect from 23rd February, 
1971, 17th February, 1971, 23rd February, 1971, 15th February, 1971. 
15th February, 1971, 15th February, 1971 respectively is justified, If 
not, to what relief are the workmen entitled?” 

[No. L-1912(65) /71-LRIIJ; 



4326 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II— 


E^ fcwfr, 29 ^E, 1971 

vto 3 0 77. — ir?r: ikek' Eft eft | ftp tee eetc 

ft fwfEfeg % Ek Jr E^kk EftfkETt, topet TFfftiE, Peet eeete, % iftos 
ft eies fEEkrEft wk ee% spinet % eIw tnp wkfrftpp Peek Pesjem f ; 

wk he: %kftr rroFrr eee fHEK nit KTEr'EaTHE % fcrft fEfkro etott HPsftrE 

Ehti cTY 

WE:, WE, Wftftftw fEETT wfftfEEE, 1947 (l947 EE 14) Hit 8TKT 1 0 Efft 
MFJ ( l) % EFTE (e) EHT E5TT ETfEEET EE WEFT TEE ^E, TO^lE TOR EkETU 
nJEE Pi 4 1 4 Hit 'dEu trfwfEEE Eft E 1 11 7-E> WGftE Ef5E kstftE ETEET wkAPit' wftl- 
ETTE, ETOEETI Eft rETEfE'HEE % krft fE?fftE E>Tfft ^ I 

■a w 

^EET -H$l4k EftPtH tt, TTEKT TPfFTE, PTOT EEEM % STEEJETOT Eft 
mm eHfe |wrm, ftErorreft, #et f etfe, mi eef, eke wnrfr wk , 
^k, fET^KrfftEE Eft ’PEW: 23 EiTEfr, 1971, 17 HTOnft, 1971, 

23 EPETp 1971, 15 EiTETt, 1971, 15 EiTEfr, 1971 tfk 15 EiTETt, 
1971 % TPEETT E?lft E?T EEEETtft KTEftpEE $ ? EfE E$T, (ft eKeet 

ftfEI WEEK % SEEK I ? 


[fto qETo 1 9 1 2 ( 6 5 ) / 7 lETpfo WTTo-2] 
New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 

S.O. 3078. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
-dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Damra 
Colliery of Messrs. Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, Post Office 
Kalipahari, District Burdwan and their workmen jn respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
jection (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A 
-of the said Act. 


Schedule 

"Whether the refusal of work to Shri Rambodh Ahir, Onsetter, from the 
20th May, 1970 to the 29th June, 1970 by the management of Damra 
Colliery of Messrs. Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, Post 
Office Kalipahari, District Burdwan is justified 7 If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. L/1912/54/71-LRIL] 


E^ Prosft, 21 1971 

fTT° WT° 30 78 . — EE: %EftE ETEET Eft TIE ^ k 7 ^Eft TO=ESf dHln'4 

ft k fti ftp -? fkFft % Ek if ftEft Error Efron? Eftw Enroft krf*kE, eitott 
Eipfr Efift, krorr e^ete Eft eett Eftfrokt % feet ft eto^ Pteteee wk ee% 
-TOTEETt * ^PE EkflfTOF fEEK pKTEiE § *, 




Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4327 - 


wfa mr: fcrfa wr< smr fro RrofatfiR % faR frofar tott ttotIt 
wmcft | ; 

sfanfaro farm wfaf-wfi, 1947 (1947 to 1 4) ottt 10# 

3wki( 1 ) % (t) srrr sr?w vrf+mrf to tor tott gm v?jfa ht+tt ott Iwr 

qft TlfaffauT HITT 7-T % wfrr fam TO far stTOT sfteflfaTO ^f+TOTO, TOTTBT 

vt TOPlfafamT % fair rr?r^TTT faffar ^TTcft t I 

"TTT farrf TOT7TT Wfa+T? TIT TOTOTi faffafa, STOTT TO^f TOTTh 
farm TO+T+ +1 TTTT TOtfawO' % SR+Tffi*SW I TO TO TPTOfa STgfa . ulffifaT 
20 nf, 1970 29 jjn, 1970 tto vm % fan ^tott +ttt ^nfafacr 

$ ? nfc mfr, nr +4 tot fan wjffta to g+mr | ? ” 

[no it^o 1 91 2/54/7 i-qn<> toto 2] 

New Delhi , the 26 th July 1971 

8.0. 3079. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of North 
Chora Colliery, Post Office Bahufa, District Burdwan and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A 
of the aaid Act. 


Schedule 

“W nether the action of the management of North Chora Colliery, Post 
Office Bahula, District Burdwan in refusing employment to Sarvashri 
Bimal Banerjee, Mining Sirdar, with effect from the 10th June, 
1970, and to Sudhakar Mistry, Office Peon with effect from the 17th 
June, 1970, is justified? If not, to what relief .are the workmen 
entitled ?" 


[No. 6/105/70-LRII.] 

feroft, 26 Tjrrfa, 1971 

«hT° 3079. — Tcf: TOfal TTTTOT # TPT | fa TOTTOg WpJTO if 

farfaffar farror % srfa 4 faro mfarfr, totott Tifm, fan totft % utot it 

to fafafafaf fafa rofa +4+i Of % ffa ifa fafaftfaro farm fam | ; 

?ffa mi: TOfafa tttot farm to TOpTfafamr % fair fat far 

spTffir Tiw+lsr TO+ f; 

*Td:, *n*r, fafartfaTO famsrfaffaur, 1947 (1947 to 14) fat uro lofat 

^TETTTT (l) %5f* (if) 5TTT STOTT ?lfa+4l TO Slfafa +TOT gfa, TOTTO tH+K 
UffifaTTT BTOT ffa? fat 3TT Wfafam fat OTTO 7-TO % OTffa tlfal TOfafa TTTTOT fat- 
WfalT SrfsTOTOT, TOTOTTT, Tit RKfWR fa faffi fafffarT | | 



4328 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


*1^ 

l,f ETT •TPl RT7T TlpTTfl, SPEdT 3T|?Tr, fa'dl didTff % 51^ 3% JSfV 
iw dfioff , 'g^ET HUE, 3fi 1 0 ^d, 1970 % sftT ^UPfR fowl 3fi"d(?PT 
NTWl gft 17 ^d, 1 970 % fRPlTC RdT 377% 4% 37Pfai^V dffTtfdff |? 

dfe di%, n’t et4ttr: Pph settIt £ 5 ? 

[30 6 / 105 / 70-^^0 srrro 2 ] 

New Delhi, the 28th July 1971 

S.O. 3080. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Agricul- 
tural Farms Limited, owners of Ramayyampatti Lime Stone Quarry, Post 
Talaiyuthu, and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government -considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constituted an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri K. Seetharama Rao, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Madras and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Messrs. Agricultural Farms 
Limited, owners of Ramayyampatti Lime Stone Quarry, post 
Sankarnagar in removing the name of Shri Perumal Sudalaimuthu 
from the rolls of the Quarry with effect from the 3rd January, 1971 
is justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

[No. L-29012/16/71-LR-IV.] 


ftcNl, 28 3U?rr$ 1971 

*61 0 tffo 3 08 0.-W: ■fUt.TT 3% TIN £ 3TPT3 JEJfpfr % IdtHfe'd 

Twit % % TmmRTjr ?rr^T dffr wr % EifNT — «■■*<.<* 

-wuh fhfhT? % jppq- if NM4' ffftrtNfit *fk WFHTt % sflN NVdlfhdV fTTTd 

fasnrrd %■, 

tflt rrff- TdflN RWK TIT fddTd 371 ''TPrMrq'T % f%E fdifard 3R3T 473 fid 

TPTVhft ^ ; 

, mr, fwr grRjOpTR, 1947 ( 1947 in 14 ) 3 % strt 7-37 *fk 

'trrtj 1 0 3% TltTRT ( 1 ) % (n) £T7T 5T?tT Rlf^cRff 3T Tdlff 3R% 3737 q- RT3TT 

PTISlTr iflvTlfuT trftlWd hfect 377711 % f%7T% tlUPflT ^Fsf^dTt «fl%° ThUTTRT-- 

tft ?fnr Fsiwr ewtw ustt grur sik Tici fTTir 3 % tut NWiffiT 311 

•wThiMiH % krtr 3777% ^ 1 

'tfiTT TPIPtHPfify 73Td 3^^1 ■si't'NT % n i f<t rd — RTitl 

tpUt fqfcRT ^ 37 ? sft Tarn % dm 3 % 

3 ^R Mf) 1971% 33 ft 3% dHTTWl % ?7Td 3% ft ? dfff 

d^ WT 4hl«rlT fadT 3d | ? ” 

[%» tr^fo — 290 12( 1 © ) / 7 1— I^To *IT7:«"4] 

tITTo ^sfplFRTT, *137! nf^T I 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST' 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4329 


" CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 23 rd July 1971 

S O. 3081, — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and employment) 
No. S.O. 2113, dated 18th May, 1971, published at pages 3064 to 3070 df the 
Gazette of India Part 11-Section 3-Sub-section (ii) dated 29th May, 1971, at 
page 3066, in line 7, for “5th October, 1965” read “5th October 1963”. 

[No. 30(6)/70-LR-IV.] 

R. KUNJITHAPADAM, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 26 th July 1971 

S.O. 3082,— Whereas the Central Government having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-clause (vi) 
of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) 1 
declared by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No, S.O. 859 dated the 20th January, 1971, any service in, or in connection 
■with, the working of, any major port or dock, to be a public utility service for 
the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months from the 5th February, 
1971; 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that public Interest 
requires extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub- 
clause (vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby declares the said service to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 5th August, 1971. 

[No, F. S. 1 1025/22/7 1 -LR-I.] 


(nr sftt Ttarmr faRiR) 

Ri FRodt, 26 RRlf, 197 1 

Vt° 308 2. — Rd: %(RtR RTFU! R, R? RRIRIR RUT IT Ff <=ftF ffcT R 

RRT RRfWd fF ifaftfw FRRTR RfdfdRR, 1947 ( 1 9 4 7 FT 14) Ft RUT 2 % 

(3) % (i) % RddFTt % RTRRR R, RUR ETFU % NR, TfaRH RtR Rddfd 

ratrr (nr srk tNtrk Frrtr) Ft Rfa-gRRT rsrt fi° rto 8 5 9 , Rul'd 20 oTddft, 
1971 JUT %Rl if) RfTRRR RT dlRT R RT RR% FTRFTR % RCRFdT if fFdt (ITT Ft RTR 
RfdfdRR % RRtRdT % fdR 5 FTRft, 19 71 A 6 RTR FT FTRIRFsI % fdR RTF RFREfl 
AdT RtflT FfRT RT ; 

RtR Rd: %?ff)R RTFTT Ft TTR t Ff RIF ffd R RTd FTRlRpR FI 6 R[R Rff R>T 
•FTRTRftT % FdR dTTRT RrdT R^fstd | ; 

Rd:, Rd, RtaffRF fRRIR srFsrfdRR, 1947 ( 1947 FI 14) Ft RUT 2 F 
(3TJd (d) % RRRTT (i) % qTRF RTF RFddRT FT RRtR FRT gR, FdftR RTFTT RdddUT 
Rid RdT % TFT RfdfTRR % RRldRl % %R 5 RRfd, 1 9 7 1 R 6 RTR sfk FFURFh 
F Fl'l R)f RRRtRt tnl RtfRd FTTft f) I 

[R° FTo ^ 0-1 1025/2 2/71-^0 RRo-l] 



4330 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II — 


New Delhi, the 11th August 1971 

S.O. 3083. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (141 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Indian Bank and their workmen, which was received by the Central; 
Government on the 6th August, 1971. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS 
Friday , the 23 rd day of July, 1971 

Present : 

Thiru K. Seetharama Rao, B.A., B.L. Industrial Tribunal. 

Industrial Dispute No. 16 of 1971 

In the matter of the dispute for adjudication u/s. 10(1) (d) of the I.D. Act;. 
1947 between a worker and the Indian Blank, Shevapet, Salem-27. 

Between 

Shri S- Duraiswamy, s/o V. Subbarayulu Naidu, Dusainaiekenpatty Village; 
and P.O., (via) Pgnamarathupatti Road, Salem District. 

AND 

The manager, Indian Bank, Mariammankoil Street, Shevapet, Salem-2. 
Reference : 

Order No. 23/97/70-Lr. Ill/dated 31st December, 1970 of the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) Government of India, New Delhi. 

This dispute coming on for final hearing on Tuesday the 6th day of July, 1971 
upon perusing the reference, claim and counter statement and all other material 
papers on record and upon hearing the arguments of Thiru N. V- Natesan, an officer 
of the Salem District Cinema Workers’ Union appearing for the worker and of 
Thiru G. Venkataraman, Advocate for Thiru B. R. Dolia, Advocate for the manage- 
ment and having stood over till this day for consideration this Tribunal made the; 
following : 


AWARD 

1. The issue for consideration is set out, as follows, in the Government of Jndisr 
order dated 31st December, 1970. 

“Whether the action of the management of the Indian Bank, Shevapet 
Branch, in terminating the services of Shri S. Duraiswamy, Night- 
Watchman, with effect from the 17th November, I960, is justified. If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 

2. The petitioner S. Duraiswamy contends that he worked as watchman for one 
year, 10 months and sixteen days on a monthly salary of Rs. 90. The period is 
from 1st January, 1967 till 16th November, 1968, when it is that his services were- 
suddenly terminated. Indian Bank has opened branches at several places and 
there was no need to send this worker away. 


2. The management contended that the worker was a casual worker, given 
work, when there was work to do. The worker was not retrenched from service?. 
The respondent Bank secured insurance coverage for all their branches, rendering 
it unnecessary, to employ watchman and there was no work available to give to 
the workman. The workman has not put in 240 days of service during 12 month 3 
period proceeding the date 16th November, 1968 and hence in law. Section- 
26(F) and (H) of the Industrial Disputes Act cannot be availed of by the petitioner 
to claim any retrenchment compensation. 

4. I am satisfied that M.W.l the Agent of the Indian Bank has spoken ther 
truth that W.W.l was appointed only as a temporary watchman under Ex. M. 6 
letter on 3rd January, 1967 and he was paid at Rs. 3 per day of 8 hours work _ on 
days that he had work to be given and not on other days. I find that Ex. M. 4 
correctly sets out the number of days that W.W.l worked in all during the period 
from 3rd January, 1967 till 17th November 1968. I find that Ex. M.4 correctly 
proved that W.W.l worked during the period from 1st November 1907 and 17to 



-Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4331 


November 1868 only for 188 -days ( 1 da> is equal to 8 hours work) . I agree that, 
if calendar year, is the critarion for the period from 1st January, 1967 to 31st 
Deoember, 1907, W.W.l worked for 315 days, but then Section 25(F) and (H) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act refers to 12 months’ period proceeding the date of 
discharge and not that 12 months could be commuted from 1 st January, 1967. The 
12 months period preceding the date of discharge is to commence from 17th Nov- 
ember, 1967 and one finds that, during the period from 1st November, 1966 to 17th 
November 1968, WW.l worked for only 188 days and that being so, he is not en- 
titled, in law', to notice pay or retrenchment compensation. I find accordingly. 

5, Secondly, it is definite that every branch of Indian Bank Is under Insurance 
coverage (renewal insurance policy is Ex. M. 5) and that being so, the policy of th& 
Bank from November, 1968 has been to stop engaging of watchman to watch the 
Bank by day or night. The above policy of putting a stop to appointing a watch- 
man for any Branch is what is spoken to by M.W. 1 and is Proved by him by 
filing Ex. M. 5. I agree that Ex. M, 7 circular only proves this, that temporary 
appointments were to be terminated, immediately the period of sanction for the 
same got over. 

6 . The evidence oi W.W. 1 that he was a monthly paid employee Is not true. 
He admitted that he was paid under vouchers like Exs. Ml, M2 and M3. He could 
not deny that Ex. M 4 correctly set out correct particulars of work done by him 
at the Indian Bank, Ex. M 6 order reads that W.W. 1 was appointed as a tempo- 
rary hand and not that he was ever appointed, on a permanent basis. In my view, 
in view of the insurance coverage Policy, no permanent or temporary watchman 
is being recruited in any branch of the Indian Bank (and that because of no 
watchman scheme) and, hence, it Is proper and correct that a temporary worker 
like W.W. 1 was discharged. I agree that Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes 
Act specifically refers to continuous period of work, for not less than one year, in 
that undertaking, immediately before such closure. Section 25F however, merely 
reads that no workman employed in any industry, who has been in continuous 
service for not less than one year, etc. etc. The Supreme Court had already 
clarified the issue under Section 25FF that the period of one year should date back, 
from the date when the undertaking was closed. In my view, whether there ia 
closure or retrenchment, the relevant date is the date when the worker is not emp- 
loyed, and continuous period has to be calculated for one year preceding the date 
of discharge of I he worker concerned, unless It be that the worker is a permanent 
worker that Is, he need not involve section 25(b) of the I.D. Act. In our case, Ihe 
worker is a temporary worker, who got work, if there was work to do, Moreover, 
the department of watch and ward in every branch of the Indian Ban^ has been 
closed down and consequently, (his worker has been discharged, and so, in reality, 
Section 25FFF Is the only section that the worker can invoke and the period of one 
year is to be computed backwards from the date of discharge, and during that 
period mentioned above, this 'worker was not in continuous service, (as did not with 
a period of 240 days during that period) as defined in Section 25(b) of the I.D, 
Act I find that W.W. 1 was a casual and a (emporary worker employed only on 
need basis, if there was work to do and he is not. entitled to any relief, as, “no 
watchman scheme”, has been introduced In every branch In Indian Bank and so 
there is no scope to employ him. The award is so passed. 

Dated, the 23rd day of July 1971, 

(Sd.) K. Seethaiiama Rao, 
Industrial Tribunal. 


Witnesses Examined: 


For worker: 

W.W.l. Thiru S. Doraiswamy (himself). 

For management: 

W.W.l. Thiru A. G. Venugopal, Agent, Indian Bank, Shevapet, Salem. 

Documents Marked 

For worker: 

Ex. W.l Accounts book showing w’ages paid to W.W.l. 

For management 

Ex.M. 1/23.12.67 Voucher for Rs, 15, 

Ex.M.2/ 20.1.68 Voucher for Rs. 12. 



4332 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 189? [Part II — 


Ex. M, 3/25. 4.68 Voucher for Rs, 9, 

Ex-M,4/.. Statement showing wages paid to W.W.l In the years 1967 and 
1968. 

Ex.M.5/1. 11.69 Insurance policy No. TR/9688 of the All India General 
Insurance Co., Ltd., Tiruchirapalli. 

Ex.M, 6/2, 1.67 Letter from Indian Bank Ltd., Madras-1 to Shevapet Branch, 
Salem stating to terminate the services. of one V. Subbarayalp. 

Ex, M.7/9. 11.68 Circular No. 102/68 issued by the Indian Bank Ltd. regard- 
ing temporary employees. 

(Sd.) K. Seetharama Rao, 

Industrial Tribunal, 

[No. 23/97/70/LRIIIJ 


New Delhi, the 12 th August 1971 

S.O. 3084, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
ol 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay No. 2 in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Limited, Bombay and t'hcir workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 9th August, 1971. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO. 2, 

BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-2/2 of 1971 

Employers in relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Limited, Bombay. 

AND 

Their workmen, 

Represented by the Central Insurance Employees Union, Bombay, 

Present : 

Shri N. K. Vani, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers. — 1. Shrl M. M. Chakraberty, Grous Joint Branch 

Manager. 

2. Shri S. V. Mokashi, Labour Adviser. 

For the Workmen. — 1. Shri J. G. Gadkari, Advocate. 

2. Shri M. T. Manwatkar. 


Industry: General Insurance State: Maharashtra. 

Bombay, dated the 30 th July, 1971 
AWARD 

By order No. L-17012/1/71-LR.I, dated 10th March. 1971 the Central Govern- 
ment in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) 
of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) referred to this 
Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute existing between the employers in 
relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Ltd., Bombay and their workmen 
represented by the General Insurance Employees Union, Bombay as set forth in 
the Schedule mentioned below: — 


Schedule 

“Whether Shri M, T. Manwatkar, Superintendent in Atlas Assurance Com- 
pany Limited. Bombay who has reached the maximum of his scale, la 
entitled to additional increment under the settlement dated the 30th 
October, 1969 for having passed an insurance examination?” 



Sec. 3 ( ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4333 :, 


2. Facts giving rise to this reference are as follows : — 

(i) Shri M, T. Manwatkar is an employee of the Atlas Assurance Company 

Limited, Bombay since January, 1949. He passed the Indian Insurance 
Institute examinations as mentioned be,ow in the respective years. 

( 1 ) Licentiate examination— January 1905. 

(ii) Associateship Examination Part I — February 1966. 

(In) Associateship Examination Part II — February 1967. 

(iv) Fellowship examination Section I- — January 1968. 

(ii) The General Insurance Employees’ Union, Bombay submitted a Charter 

ot demands on 22nd March, 1965. In that connection a joint appli- 
cation for adjudication under Section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 was made on 13th August, 1965 by the company and the 
Union, The said application was referred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. It was numbered as Ref. No.CGIT/61 
of 1965. In that reference there was a settlement between the parties 
on 30th October, 1969. On the basis of this settlement Award dated 
1st December, 1969 was made. 

(ili) As per clause 3 of the Settlement dated the 30th October, 1909 (Ex.2/E) 
the employee Shri M T. Manwatkar was plated in Special Clerical 
Grade i.e.' Rs. 270-20-350-25-560 and his basic salary as on 30th April, 
1968 has been fitted in the revised salary scale as mentioned below: 


Basic salary as on 30-4-68 
plus 


Rs, 

Rs. 

5 TO 

10 


"’otal 

Rs. 52 j 

i filing i ti Grai e 

Flue one i cr> ir,cnt 


Rs. 52; 
Rs. 25 


Total 

Rs, 

550 


(iv) 


As Shri Manwatker’s pay was revised and fixed in the special clerical 
grade at Rs. 650 it is clear that he reached his maximum of his scale 

0:1 301h April. 1968. 


(v) According to clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement dated the 30th 
October, 1969 (Ex. 2/E) Atlas Assurance Company Limited. Bomnay 
is required to adppt the scheme applicable to workmen employed by 
Guardian Assurance Co. Ltd., Bombay, for rewarding clerical staff on 
passing Insurance examinations. The provision as mentioned below 
was made hr the settlement dated the 17th Novemoer, 1902 of the 
Guardian Assurance Co. Ltd., Bombay: 


‘'Special increments— the staff in future will be given special increments 
as detailed below; — 


One 


scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance- 
Institute Examination and/or Indian Insurance Institute Examina 
tion.” 

(vi) The settlement dated the 30th October. 1969 Ex. 2/E was made effective 
from 1st May 1968. In view of this the company was required to give 
special S increments to its employees m passing the examination, 
mentioned above in future with effect from 1st May, 1968. 


(vii) On the basis of Clause 7 in the Settlement, dated 30th October, 1968 
(Ex. 2/E) the employee Shri Manwatkar claimed four scale incre- 
ments from the company. As the company refused to give him these 
increments, the Atlas Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as ‘the Company’) and the General Insurance Employees 
Union, Bombay (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Union’) made a joint 
application to the Central Government for referring this dispute to 
an Industrial Tribunal. The Central Government therefore referred 
this dispute to this Tribunal. 


3, On the receipt of this reference notices were issued to the parties to file 
their written Statements. 



4334 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


4 Shri M, M, Chakrafoarty, Group Joint Branch Manager of the Atlas 
Assurance Company Limited has filed written statement on behalf of the com- 
pany on 8th April 1971 vide annexure ‘A’ to the Award. 

6. The company contends that Shri Manwatkar is not entitled to four incre- 
ments because:— i 

(i) Shri Manwatkar has reached the maximum of his scale of Rs. 550 prior 

to 1st May 1968, and; 

(ii) He passed the Indian Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May I960 

and the settlement dated 30th October 1969 became effective from 
1st May 1968 onwards. 

6. Shri K. S B. Pillai, General Secretary of the General Insurance Employees’ 
Union, Bombay has filed written statement at Ex. 3/W vide annexure ‘B’ to the 
Award. 

7. According to nim; 

(i) As per the provisions regarding special increments, one increment in 

the scale is to be granted on passing each part of the Insurance 
Examination. What is contemplated is that a special increment 
equivalent to one scale increment is to be granted on passing each 
part of the Insurance Examination. These increments have nothing 
to, do with the scale and the maximum of the scale. It is quite clear 
from the word special increments that there increments are to be 
granted for the attainment of special qualifications, and the 
employees obtaining such qualifications, are entitled to additional 
benefits of special increments over and above the salary scales they 
would be entitled to even without obtaining these special qualifica- 
tions. What is intended is that the persons obtaining qualifications 
pei caining to industry should consistently and continuously earn 
more than the employees who are without such qualifications but with 
equal number of years service, If this intention is taken into account 
it will be easily realised that the word special is used with purpose 
of giving a special benefit to such hard working and conscientious 
employees for ever. If the Intention had been to deny the special 
increments on reaching maximum of the scale or to make it part and 
parcel of the scale, the words ‘subject to the maximum’ would have 
appeared in the settlement pertaining to provision of special incre- 
ments. Shri Manwatkar therefore be given increment though he 
has reached the maximum of his scale. 

(ii) The company’s contention that Shri Manwatkar 1 is not entitled to special 

increments as he has passed the examinations prior to 1st May 1968, 
is erroneous and displays a malaflde attitude of the management. It 
is quite clear from the clause cited by the Company itself that such 
persons who weic not granted special increments prior to the settle- 
ment become entitled to the same from the effective date of the 
settlement. 

(iii) The whole purpose of the settlement is to grant special benefit to Ihe 

employees who acquire special qualifications and should be inter- 
preted in the manner conducive of its purpose. Shri Manwatkar is 
therefore entitled to four special increments from 1st May 1968 and 
the company be directed to pay the same accordingly. 

8. Points for consideration are as follows: — 

(i) whether Shri M. T. Manwatkar, Superintendent in Atlas Assurance 
Company Limited, Bombay is entitled to get one scale increment for 
passing each part of Indian Insurance Institute Examination? 

(ii) What order? 

9. My findings are as follows:— 

(i) No. 

(ii) As per order. 


Reasons 


Point Nos. I and II 

10. It is common ground that Shri Manwatkar has passed the examinations in 
question prior to 1st May, 1968 and not after 1st May, 1968. 



Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SKAVANA 30, IK93 4335 


11. Shri Mokashi, Labour Adviser lor the company contends that Shri 
Manwatkar is not entitled to get the increments for passing the examinations m 
question because he passed the examinations prior to 1st May 1968, In support 
of this contention he relics on the provision regarding granting of special incre- 
ments referred to above. 

12. The learned Advocate Shri Gadkari appearing on behalf of the Union con- 
tends that the company’s contention that Shri Manwatkar is not entitled to special 
increments because he passed the examinations in question prior to 1st May 1968, 
is erroneous and displays a maluflde intention of the management, He further 
submits that it is quite clear from the clause cited by the company itself that 
persons who were not granted special increments prior to the date of settlement 
become entitled to the same fropi the effective date of the settlement, and that 
the purpose of the settlemnt is to grant special benefit to the employees who, 
acquire special qualifications, 

13. In my opinion the argument advance by Shri Gadkari referred to above 
cannot be accepted. 

14. From the clause regarding increments referred to in para. 2 ( v‘) , it is 
crystal clear that the staff of Atlas Assurance Company Limited, Bombay was to 
be given special increments i.e. one scale increment for passing each part of 
Chartered Insurance Institute Examination and|or Indian Insurance Institute 
examination, in future. Admittedly the settlement came into force with effect 
from 1st May 1968. As the settlement came into force with effect from 1st May 
1968, it will be clear from the plain reading of the clause regarding granting of 
special increments that the members of staff were to be given special increments 
i.e., one scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute 
Examination and/or Indian Insurance Institute "Examination with effect from 1st 
May 1968 onwards, 

15. If the intention would have been to give special increments to the 
employees who have passed examinations prior to 1st May 1968, clause regarding 
special increments would have so specifically mentioned. It would have men- 
tioned that special increments would be given to the employees who have already 
passed the Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May 1968 and who would pass 
later on. In my opinion the expression ‘in future’ used in the clause leaves no 
room to doubt that the intention of the parties was to allow special increments 
only to those employees who would pass Insurance Examinations m future, i.e. 
from 1st May 1968, onwards. It cannot be, therefore siid that the intei nictation 
sought to be plactd by the company in this respect is in any way unreasonable, 
impropci and erroneous. 

16. Shri Mokashi, Labour Adviser for the company contends that Shri 
Manwatkar is not entitled to get one scale increment for passing each part of 
Indian Insurance Institute examination, with effect from 1st May 1968 because 
he had reached the maximum of the scale in the Special Clerical Grade of Rs. 270 — 
20—350 — 25 — 550 on 30th April 1968, i.e., priod to 1st May, 1968. 

17. The learned Advocate Shri Gadkari for the Union contends that if the- 
intention had been to deny the special increments on r aching the maximum of 
the scale or to make it part and parcel of the s^alo, the words ‘subject to the 
maximum’ would hove appeared in the clause pertaining to provi ion of special 
increments and that it is quite Near from the words ‘special increments’ that these 
increments are to be granted for the attainment of special qualifications and the 
employees obtaining such qualifications are entitled to additional benefits of 
special increments over and above the salary scales they would be eptitled to even 
without obtaining these special qualifications. 

18. It is true that it is not mentioned in the clause regarding special incre- 
ments that subject to maximum of the pay scale, special increments would be 
given. In my opinion it is not necessary to make mention of this in this clause 
because the clause clearly says that one scale increment would be given for 
passing each Dart of Chartered Insurance Institute Examination and/or Indi« T 
Insurance Institute Examination. It means that at the time of passing examina- 
tion if a particular employee hoc reached the maximum of the scale--'™ 1 * P & y, there 
would be no further increment in the scale or pay available for Tum. as he would 
not be entitled to any increment in the scale of nay aiu±- reaching the maximum 
of his scale. He cannot be given any addition scale increment 

19. If it would have been the intention to allow special increments to the 
employees passing insurance examination even after they reach the maximum of 
the scale of pay, it would have been mentioned in special increments clause that 



4336 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT- 


one scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute 
Examination and/or Indian Insurance Institute Examination should toe treated as 
special pay or personal pay in addition to the normal scale of pay of the employee 
concerned, As this has not been so specifically mentioned in the clause ‘special 
increments’, the interpretation sought to be placed by Shri Godkari on it cannot 
be accepted. In my opinion the interpretation sought to be placed by the com- 
pany appears to be reasonable and proper. 

20. While interpreting the clause regarding special increments, one has to read 
the clause as it stands. One cannot add any new words or subtract any word. 
The plain meaning of this plause Is that special increments tor passing Insurance 
Examinations are to be given to those employees who would pass the examination 
in future i.e. from 1st May 1968 onwards and who have not reached the maximum 
of the scale before passing the examination. Hence Shri Manwatkar is not 
entitled to additional increment under the settlement dated 30th October 1969, for 
having passed Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May, 1 968. 

21. In view of the above findings, I pass the following Order:— 

Order 

(i) It is hereby declared that Shri Manwatkar, Superintendent, in Atlas 

Assurance Company Limited, Bombay, who has reached the muximum 
of his scale, is not entitled to additional increment under the settle- 
ment dated the 30th October, 1969 for having passed any insurance 
examination. 

(ii) Award is made accordingly. 

(iii) No order as to costs. 

(Sd.) N. N. Vawi, 
Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No. 2 , 

Bombay. 

30-7-71. 

Annexure ‘A’ 

BEFORE SHRI N. K. VANI_ PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-212 of 1971 
Between 

Atlas Assurance Co. Ltd, Bombay 

Atlas Assurance Co., Ltd. Bombay 

And 


Their workmen 

MAY IT PLEASE THE HON. TRIBUNAL; Atlas Assurance Co. Ltd., Bombay, 
hereinafter referred to shortly as the Company, begs to file its written statement 
in the abovementioned matter as under: 

1. The Company submits that the General Insurance Employees’ TJnlon, Bom- 
bay, submited a Charter of Demands on the 22nd March 1965 and a joint applica- 
tion for adjudication under Section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was< 
made on the 13th August. 1965 by the Company and the Union. The said appli- 
cation was referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , 
under Ref. No. CGIT/67 of 1965 and an Award dated 1st December 1969 was given 
in terms of the Memorandum of Settlement, Dated 30th October 1969, a copy of 
which is enclosed. 

2. According to Clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement, dated 30th Octo- 

our Company is required to adopt the scheme applicable to workmen 
employt4_ Guardian Assurance Company, Limited. Bombay, for rewarding 
clerical stalt-rm _ passing Insurance examinations. The following provision was 
made in the Settlement dated rith November 1962 of Guardian Assurance Co 
Ltd,, Bombay; 

“Special increments . — The staff in future will be given special increments 
as detailed below: — 

One scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute 
Examination and/or Indian Insurance Institute Examination. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4337 


3. The Company submits that according to the above provisions one increment 
in the scale is to be granted on passing each part of the Insurance examinations. 

4. The company submits that as per Clause 3 of the settlement Mr. M. T. 
Manwatkar was placed in Special Clerical Grade i.e. Rs. 270 — 20 — 350 — 25 — 550 
and his basic salary as at 30th April 1968 bas been fitted in the revised salary 
scale in the following manner: — 


Hade salary as on 3c-^-f>8 

Ru 

5 10 

Flus 

Rs. 

10 


Rs. 

520 

Fitting into grade 

R‘. 

525 

plus one increment 

Rt. 

25 


Total Rs. 

550 


The Company further submits that Mr. Manwatkar thus reached the maximum of 
his scale and therefore, he could not be granted any increments for passing 
Insurance Examinations. 

5. The Company submits that any workman, having his salary within the scale 
and receiving increments also within the scale by virtue of his passing the 
Insurance examination, will reach the maximum of his scale in due course and 
thereafter, no further increment will be payable to him. If Mr. Manwatkar Is 
given additional increment/s as claimed, any other workman would (be claiming 
that the increments for passing the examinations are always in addition to the 
maximum of the scale, whether 01 not the examinations are pnssed before or 
after reaching the maximum of this scale. The company, therefore, submits that 
the special increment provided in the Memorandum of Settlement is increment 
within the scale and not an additional increment. The Memorandum of Settle- 
ment docs not provide such additional increment as would amount to extending 
the grade, 

6. The company submits that Mr. Manwatkar reached the maximum, of his 
scale after adjustment, as explained above, and us such no increment for passing 
insurance examinations could be granted to him; for to do so would amount t» 
extending the grade. 

7. Mr. Manwatkar is employed since 3rd January, 1949 and has passed the 
following parts of insurance examinations on the dates mentioned against each 
part: — 


Insurance 1 xamination 


Tart 


Date 


1. AssOciateship 

2. „ 

3. f'ellovsMp 


I 

II 

Section I 


Feb. ic66 
T -eb. 1967 
Jan. 1968 


The Company submits that since the settlement dated 30th October. 1969 
was made effective from 1st May, 1968 there is no case for granting increments 
for insurance examination completed prior to 1st May. 1968. Mr. Manwatkar 
is, therefore, not entitled to claim any increments for' examinations under Items 
1 to 3 above. As he has not completed any part after 1st May, 1968, he is not 
entitled to claim any increment under Clause 7 of the said Memorandum of 
Settlement dated 30th October, 1969. 

8. The Company submits that Mr. Manwatkar is not entitled to additional in- 
crements for having passed insurance examinations _as there is no room to grant 
such increments in the scale applicable to him. The Company, therefore, sub- 
mits that the demand should be rejected. 

&. The Company craves leave to add, amend or alter the abovementioned 
written statement as and when considered necessary. 

Atlas Assurance Company Limited, 
(Sd.) M, M. Chakrabarty, 
Group Joint Branch Manager. 

Bombay, 

Hated 8th April, 1871. 



4338 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part 11 


Verification 

I, M. M, Chakrabai'ty. Group Joint Branch Manager of the company above- 
named, do hereby state on solemn affirmation that what is stated in the foregoing 
written statement is true to the best of my knowledge, information and belie! 
This verification is signed by me at Bombay this eighth day of April, 1971. 

B (Sd.) M. M. Chakrabarty. 

Annexure ’B’ 

BEFORE SHRI N. K. VANI, PRESIDING OFFICER, CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 
INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 

Reference No. CGIT-2/2 of 1971 
Between 

Atlas Assurunce Co. Ltd., Bombay. 

And 

Their Workmen. 

MAY IT PLEASE THE HONOURABLE TRIBUNAL, 

The General Insurance Employees Union, Western Zone, Bombay do hereby 
submits Its written statement in the above said dispute as follows: — 

1. Shrl M. T. Manwatkar who is employe*! as a Superintendent in Atlas Assu- 
rance Company Limited, Bombay is the employee of the said Company since 
January, 1949. 

2. Shri Mankwatkar passed the following Indian Insurance Institute examina- 
tions in the respective years shown hereinbelow; — 

(i) Licentiate examination — January, 19G5 

(ii) Associateshlp examination Part I February, I960 

(iiij -do- Part II February, 1967 

(iv) Fellowship examination Section I January, 1968. 

3. That a settlement was arrived at between this Company and the General 
Insurance Employees’ Union, representing the workmen of this Company on or 
about 30th October, 1969 which was made effective from 1st May, 19687 As per 
the clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement, it was agreed that the scheme 
applicable to the workmen employed by the Guardian Insurance Company Limit- 
ed, Bombay in respect of special increments on passing of insurance examinations 
be adopted by this Company. The scheme applicable in Guardian Insurance Com- 
pany Limited was as follows: — 

Special Increment ;;, — The staff, in future, will be given special increments 
as detailed below : — 

“One scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Insti- 
tute Examination and for Indian Insurance Institute Examination.” 

4. The Union states that the company was bound to give Mr, ManwatkaT four 
special increments effective from 1st May, 1968; each increment being equivalent 
to increment in the scale applicable to him. The Union states that on just, pro- 
per equitable and correct interpretation of the said clause, Mr, Manwatkar was- 
entitled to four special increments whether he had reached the maximum of the 
scale or not as these increments were specially due to him, apart from his scale 
Increments, for having acquired special qualifications other than those entitling 
him for the employment and gradation in the employment of the Company, 

5. The Union states that the management refused to pay him these special 

increment on the ground that the said employee reached the maximum of scale 
on 1st May, 1968 and hence these special increments are not due to him. The 
Union submits that this action of the management has been illegal, improper and 
also in violation of the latter, and spirit of the settlement dated 39th October, 
1989. ! 

6. The management in its written statement dated 8th April, 1971 filed in this 
Court has taken the same stand which may be rejected as being unreasonable and 
improper. 



Slc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4339 


7. With reference to para 1 of the written statement of the Company, the 
Union states that the contents thereof are substantially true. 

8. With reference to paragraph 2 of the said written statement of the Company, 
the Union states that the contents thereof are substantially true. 

9. With reference to paragraph 3 of the said written, statement of the Company, 
the Union denies that as per the provisions regarding special increments, one 
increment in the scale is to be granted on passing each part of the Insurance. 
Examination. The Union states that what is conceived is that a special increment 
equivalent to one scale increment is to b e granted on passing each part of the 
Insurance Examination and therefore these increments nave nothing to do with 
the scale and the maximum of the scale. 

10. With reference to paragraph 4 of the said written statement of the Company, 
the Union states that it is true that Mr. Manwatkar reached the maximum as 
shown in the said paragraph. The Union, however, denies that, the Company 
could not grant any increment because Mr. Manwatkar had reached the maximum. 

11. With reference to paragraph 5 of the said written statement of the Com- 
pany, the Union states that the interpretation put by the Company regarding the 
provision of special increment submitted in the some paragraph are erroneous and 
perverse. The Union states that it is quite clear from tlje word “special incre- 
ments” that these increments are to be granted for the attainment of special 
qualifications and the employees obtaining such qualifications are entitled to, 
additional benefits of special increments over and above the salary scales they 
would be entitled to even without obtaining these special qualifications, It is 
quite obvious that these increments are apart from the scales applicable to ordi- 
nary employees without qualifications and have nothing to do with the maximum. 
The Union states that what is intended is that the persons obtaining qualifications, 
pertaining to industry (which is also in the interest of the industry and the Com- 
panies) should consistently and continuously earn more than the employees who 
are without such qualifications but with equal number of years service. If this 
intention is taken into account it will be very easily realised that the word 
“special” is used with purpose of giving a special benefit to such hardworking 
and conscientious employees for ever. The Union states that the Company by its 
interpretation made in the said paragraph is introducing additional conditions, 
on the granting of special increments, neither conceived by the parties to the 
settlement for forming part of the settlement. The Union submits that had the 
intention been to deny the special increments on reaching maximum of the scale 
or to make it, the part and parcel of the scale, the words "subject to the maxi- 
mum” would have appeared in the said clause of the settlement pertaining to 
provision of special increments, 

12. With reference to paragraph 6 of the said written statement of the Company, 
the Union states that the allegations in the said paragraph are already replied 
to here and above. 

13. With reference to paragraph 7 of the said written statement of the Com- 
pany, it is submitted that the Company by oversight has forgotten to mention 
one more insurance examination passed by Mr. Manwaktar in the year 1965. The 
Union further states that the Company’s contention that Mr. Manwatkar is not 
entitled to special increments as he has passed the examinations prior to 1st May, 
1968 in erroneous and displays a malaf.de attitude of the management. It is 
quite clear from the clause cited by the Company itself that such persons who 
were not granted special increments prior to the settlement become entitled to 
the same from the effective date of the settlement. 

14. The Union submits that the whole purpose of the settlement is to grant 
special benefit to the employees who acquire special qualifications and should be 
interpreted in the manner conducive of its purpose. The Union states that the 
Tribunal may be pleased to make an award holding that Mr. Manwatkar is en- 
titled to four special increments from 1st May, 1968 and direct the Company- 
accordingly. 

Bombay; 

Dated, 26th April, 1971. (Sd.) K, S. B. PT T.T.A T 

General Secretary. 

VERIFICATION 

I, K. S. B. Filial, do hereby affirm that the statements of facts made herein- 
above arc true to my best knowledge and belief and information, 

Bomay: 

Dated* 26th April, 1971. 


(SdA K. S. B. PILLAI.. 
[No. F. L. 17012|1]71-LR.I.] 



- 434 ° THE gaze TTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1S93 [Part IT— 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th June 1971 

S.O. 3085. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National 
Bank and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule here- 
to annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus- 
trial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Punjab National Bank, Central 
Circle. Indore in stopping the services of Shri Tej Bhan Taneja with 
effect from the 29th February 1968 and refusing to absorb him in 
the permanent vacancy is justified? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled?” 


[No. L. 12012/2/71/LRIII.] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


fefr, 28 ^Tff, 1971 

«PToSflo 308 5. — m' TOR TTff | SFUUflr R 

rflT Rff: TOR Fdff fffdTT Tt f Jftrf'Tad'l 4" fsr(J 41UTT ffnsdtd 

Turafft 1 1 

1947( 1 947 TT 14)^HTU 10#^IEJRT( l) 

•tSUST (ff) BfroffT 4iT *67% % ? 3 s ffr RTTK I'd « ■ 9 I tl TTO 

qff yprr 7—37 % ^TUT-T dfsff SffEFf < u l h del Rif '3'TO ffffflff ^FTfiffTtl'T % 

|e|t( t teff ^ , 

“Efnr q'^TffT ffRffd tffl, ^ ffsff'ff R^eT RT 2 9 1 9 6 8 R 

triff d^dT ^ Rit sftr iff frtrI fjfro if wrI’-h rgtY R srir ^ 

| ? Rfe r^Y eft ri fRE sfjrYr rt fFRR | ? " 


[ffo 12012/2/71- RTRo 3] 

tTgo tT^-o ERR EIRE I 



■Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4341 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 28 th July 1971 

S.O, 8086. — Whereas the Centra] Government is of opinion that an indus- 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 
Messrs. Peters and Smith (India) Private Limited, Calcutta and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes -Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act. 


Schedule 

1. "Whether the workmen engaged by Messrs. Peters and Smith (India) 
Private Liaaited, Calcutta, are justified in claiming the time scales as given below 
and dearness allowance at the rate prescribed by the Bengal Chambers of 
Commerce and Industry. 

If so, from which date If not, to what secies/dearness allowance are they 
entitled and from what date?” 

Grade I (Accounts Clearks, Stenographers, Senior Licence Sirkars and Senior 
Ocffle Clearks) 

Rs. 26# — 10 — 300 — 1 5—420 — 20 — 500 — 25 — 600 . 

Grade II (Licence Sirkars, Godown keepers. Typists etc. 

Rs. 2C6 — 10 — 305—15- — 426 — 20 — 505. 

Grade III (Peons/ Watermen/Mazdoor etc.) 

Rs. 165- 4—189 — b — 214 — 6- -226—7—240. 

For Drivers: Rs. 200 — 10 — 250 1 — 16 — 340. 

2. ' “Whether the benefit of Gratuity should be available to the workmen? If 
so, to what extent and from what date?” 

3. “Whether the following benefits should be made available to the workmen? 
If so to which categories, to what extent and from what date?” 

(i) Uniforms — Summer and Winter . 

(ii) Umbrellas. 


INo. 72-29/70-P&D.] 
AJIT CHANDRA, Under Secy. 

( vm sfiy ftWT ftOTRl) 

fit feft, 2 8 19 7 1 

3086 — W: RT4HT ibY TIFT R fUifi- 

fer fqTH % mk. % 3 fid tthh Tt-nr fur«f (Tu m ) wwr % jhfspf 

% W7 fdTRFT tflT ^ 4 % T4RKT % RtlfiffiR. fh'UR fRSU.FT ? ] 

I! m: Hftifwr, 1947 ( 1 947 tt it) wr uttr 10 

RRtriTT ( 1 ) % (R ) JTTT STSU uf^Ttfi TT TUT fiTTd fir, %RPl fPPfrfR rr-,-. 4. "-7 
Ept STfaffiTE ETltr 7 — U % U'JTR fifed I RfifiK fiifiiffifi 


fify d' tfi , TTfifirTT Ifif RTU Hui U 4 % fHT fefififi fiTrfi I 



4342 THE GAZETTE Of INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, ’A 93 [Paht XI— 


1. "TAT TTT ART ITW ffrA (f ff TTT ) A RAT fafiRT, WWT 5TAT RJ TTT 

AWRt AT, Tf% f'Trr jpr FT H ATT AATTT A# ATTT #AT ATT AT 
TP# tro^ SWof# JRT far FfA AR AR TAT# TAT AT ATAT TRTT ?TTAi FRA 

I ? 

AR ft, eft FaTT AT# € ? A# Tft eft A Fua #TTIT WT# WT % STAR 

5 I ?ftR f#T ATT# % ? ” 

#ift I (TTArT FtR, AT qTMrr' 4E|SrF c T TTTR aH #53 ATTITA Mo T ) 

25 0-1 0-3 00- 15-42 0-2 0-5 00-25-6 00 Ro 
£oft || (aTA# TRATR, #RTT TWT, TRlAFT ATFr) 225-1C-305- 1 5-- 
425-20-505 Ro 

III (TTRTTF/##ATR/TTfR AT#) 165- 4M 89-5-214-6-226-7- 
240 To ^T^'d % f#T : 200-10-250-15-340TO 

2 . "aaT RTWTff Tt TAATA #ATFaTT TATAA AT AT ft TTFfA ? aFt ff, TT FaTT 
fARTTR W #7 FART TtR# % ? ” 

3. “ttT RJWRT # F'UTpTFtfT AT/aTIT TAFRT # AT# T’TffTT ? aFr #, At 
FAR ATT? #, fpTT fARATR AT A^T FaTT TRW % ? ” 

AR?— RfRT A# FTRA 
IS# 

[# 72 — 29/ 7 0— ff o aR #o] 


AffAwft, 21A#T, 1971 

TTo Wfo 181 1. — ATT TWIT (FaTTTT AT fAfTWT) AfafATT, 1948 # ART 4 
# APART ( l ) ART AArT FIFaT# AT AT IT ARTt , ##T Tflt ##T AT A #FP 
(f-TATTA TT [aFtATT ) FT A, 1 9 5 9 Ff #R TFftSTT ART % #0 FtjtFtFjT F#T, FaT 
TAT TP-ART ART ATT AAfFsTT Affr WTfFTT f#TT TT ATT |, TTR5RT ATT# 
aCRTt#:— 

1 . f A F# T AT TTT #TtT ATTTTTR ( VTAf TT AT F4TTATT ) AFT? AT RAPT, 

1971 ffTT I 

2. #TlT TTT TrfTR (FtaRTT AT FaFtATA) FATfT, 1959 (FT% ATT 
TTT AFRTT TAT F#T TTTTTTt) 45 ff, TWA ( 3 ) # TA (®) 

f RATT PC fnATF iTflA TT pffRTlfPA # TT#, v,*«T?A:- 

" ( rp ) T,ff Ft# RfTI AT TT ( T ) % TTlT TtFa £RT fTTfTT fpTT TAT 
ft, Aft Tfr fATTT # TT#U Ff ATT T# fpT # FTP TT TTATFTT 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SR AVAN A -0, 1893 4343 


Rf Pit fk ^ *T?ft f 51181% fkrff ^fTr^TTflfTTIT 

snrmT, f^rTUFT qf Ersr^rj q|fq-75kT qr ft% ft T7TT tf f^WlT f PH, 

*rk ttt% t^-tt wTUTTnr q^mt! it, itm fftff-qrai 
WT spT TTtTTT 7 ft rtfl tTTffrft^ ^ST^ft, qf*TTf sflT W^T 'Hvft % 
rffa-ffak % qrfaqi q $ 1 

qrfi ^ift ir?ft 3ri"q vi; spmff % f3R% fqpr qqfaiT ft sicW ^ 
tr f^rtRTT |, q-i$ ffq ft srafa T qiq '*11 ^rft »f rft Tft fff 
€ wfw w-rfer 'TPT itrqtf-'qk ft ^ht qnc, mtjTfcp Rf’rrfj 

snksi^nrai wt. fkn wt 1 " 

3 . HFtrr 46tr, : 3ws (4~qi) ft*iq (q?) % pqTqqTf-iHfafqra' 

*r? srfclWrfqg- ft TTTrnft, 5Plfa : — 

"(q>) 31ft ffftqqfcTT. ft 3fk‘ %3rfkRlTf?t qq; fklfkra fOTW ft, 

qf r ^it Otph-stt aft prrcter f w ffr % ftro; to srmiftr 
TTfJTTf ifk vrft % wm f to^to ftrrff-HtTT fSri ff*n ^nrjtrr, 
froqr qf iRffi prifci’ — wft qr ft% f r qnn it ffn sftr ^ 

% qs^Tcf srsqsr totsitto gunm it, uto tovftt fffif vmT fro qir 
fkn ft tiiTt snsniro Er^r^ft, n^n't nV fki % fR-fkif 
% ^faq; pt ft 1 

qroj ^rft <?ft 3fiA' TT^t qnrnft %, frof f^u to^tt ft stria ^q 3r 
f3ikr?fTT l.q^fTOftswra % srr^- vfr TOeft xt ft qftqw fro % 
vftup ft sr-rfa fafrf- *m ft qri qrp, snsrifop TRfft, qf mi 
fkwR »mf% fTr-kfar$ % totjr qr froi qucrpr 1 ” 

4 . sw ifur f 51 f, -tor ( 3 - *ft) ft (q;) qf iw qr fq^kfaTr 

qq qfkqrfqq- €r qrnffr, spkar : — 

"(v) 3ift fkft qrrqrK =pt qrkr ^Piftqq Tf f qqi fktfiqpr fqTqTqqT 
ft fft ^ fkufkq qft rnfkr % q^nr ?nst ffn % ^ 

qiTmfki RWfft, *Tf mi *{\x ^ vr/ff % vtv % Tq-f^q ff^tf- 
wrikw Fpqi 3 jtttttt, fsiTTpi qf RTiffT prffq -^qft qr ftf ft qiftr 
it fqrqK ftfT, ?ftT T7T% qs^iq 'WKS\, SHTOTm TWHtf it, 
trqr T^'qT fqqif -'<Trll TfT qrp/l%qT ft rrqT STTCrTfkP T T31^ft, 
qfqii’ wk ?r^ ^ft % fk-fkk % vfrtt q ft 1 

V U75 3ffT qft 3rpq IT^ qrrnifl %, f3T-T% ffq EpitqrR ft qpqS,T f q % 

■pmfrqTT It, qst fkr ft mfj % qiq ft ^ft t| qt qft ^ tkr % 
ft wqfk qT^fqqff ft Tdt qn; PrTarfw FT^ct 
q-krtf fk sq-q ■qff f rnr-ftqrf % tt 

ffo 5 2 s / 1 s 3 / 6 5 — qk ° 2 /qt 0 vq fro] 
vkrq ^t, 5rqr qfqq 1 



4344 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PaKT U~ 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26 th March 1971 

S.O. 3087. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankol* 
Colliery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Company Limited, Post Office Ukhra, District 
Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Bankola Colliery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Corne- 
lian y Limited, Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwan was justified in stopping from 
work Shri Umar Khan, Shale Picker from 30th June, 1970? If not, to what relief 
the workman concerned is entitled?” 


[No. G/82/70-LR. II. 1 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 


( tUmu ftnun) 


Nf fewft, 26 NT# 1971 

«Fio ?TT° 308 7 — JRT NTffiT TT TR $ fV it 

FT7NT % «rrl if NNlf NTfgT EffiH TFTft fufiTCS', N13U, f%NT aWAM' 

sprar R farjtwf Sfk ITT sfkftfw fws 

^ ; 

tftr W. IT ei tT'l t dAd fdd i< 3 ft rt| iuPi u md % firfT^ fdk fvid Ai <0 1 dl'cS'ft if. 
NNBeff § ; 

WT, TUT, NVlfw fipTTC wfafTUT, 1947 ( 1947 WJ 14)3^517110 3^35* 
-trm ( 1 ) % 3F* (n) 3TTT SRTT wfWNt TT tpfpr AR# TO! 33<T 

Iddm a't bau ^rfyfwr 3ft nttt 7 — 31 ’utTii ofod 5t.it ftrr ?rfti'T><, u i, fit. 

% f^Td, ffidftid 5>7rfV ^ I 


WNfUft 

V5 -A 

TTT NNf STTfau Tl 1 V'TTr 3T3RT . oUTf 535FT 3?f 53^1 

TT Nt <IT, -^TN fcpfwrv TT 30 ^T, 1970 % 355 3T77? %• 

flTPI ^Fftfod «TT eft (TPTfPPf TOR f3RT 35 | ? 

[No 6 / 82/7 0-PRo PITo — 2) 

3U3H 53T Ni 5 5 [ 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVAN4. 30, 1893 4345 - 


(Department of Lalbour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th' April L971 

S.O, 3088.— Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an Industrial' 
cuspute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Pure - 
tsearsole Colliery, Post Office Searsole Rajbari, District Burdwan and their work- 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

whereas the Central Government considers It, desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tion (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of Pure Searsole Colliery, Post Office 
Searsole Rajbari, District Burdwan, in stopping Sarvashri Mongru Bin, Moti Gope, 
Keaho Harij an, Dwarika Harijan and Asgar Mia, Trammers, from work with effect 
from 8rd September, 1970, 8th September, 1970, 1st September, 1970, 30th August, 
197* and 3rd September, 1970 respectively was justified? If not, to what relief are 
the workmen entitled?” 

[No. L-1912/22/71-LR. II.}. 


(STR ‘tfk ytTAIT fW) 

mm 

Tf ftwfV, 5 SRA 1971 

«PTo WTO 3 0 8 8 . — m: %AftA dft yR fa T'JTTT tfAgfal if fdfdfTR 

ifr ttY if Rty fyRTyffa , TTARy (m?RAM yTAAlft, faAT aYar % TAAT 

if TRra fAAlsfai sfty ta% Rfaryf % tfa sfraifw faAR fa*nrrA % ; 

sfty 4A : ATRy TAR fTTTT TT RRfAfaTA % fab faffRA TOT APSAfa 

AAETfft | I 

(W:,W, 1947 ( 194,7 TT 14) AYRRT 10A?tTWRr 

( 1 ) (a) 3TTT 5RR BfafRl ATTTRTO'ftr, fa^R ?RA'R RR5TU TAR faRR 

Tt TO RfAfAAT R ART 7-f t RAtA Afar TRR RATTy sfrtftfiw trftPpy'JT, TTRAT 

aY RRfg-RR % far; fa? fW Aiycft 1 1 

“art rr ffaRRfa AAfatrft, Rmy ffaRRfa yRRTft, faRi TOTA % strat 

irsr rru far, Ttfr am, %?ft rPr.t ?faAA ?fty start 

fjRT, JKjxiTlyRTr: sffaFAy, 197 0, sffaRAy, 197 0, 1 faRRR, 1 97 0, 
3 0 RAPT, 197 0 ?At 3 ffapAT, 19 7 0% APT TT? if yfaY TV TT?Afa} 
RRtfaA At ? Rfa AT ARAAy faR ST-JAfa % ^RRR f ? ” 

[t° tJT 0 — 19 ) 2 / 22 / 7 !' fal r ATT— 2 ] 



4346 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Pakt II-- 


New Delhi , the 6th April 1971 

S.O. 3089, — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
'dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Slngareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Post Office Kothagudem Collieries (Andhra Pradesh) and their 
"workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T. Chandrasekhara Reddv, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Afzai 
Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote, Efvderabad-1, and refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to the said Industrial Tribunal, 


Schedule 

“Whether the management or Ramagundam-I Division (Workshop) of Singa- 
re‘ni Collieries Company Limited was justified in refusing to employ Shri D. 
Shanker, Electrician Category IV as fitter Category V in contract making job from 
May, 1969? If not, to what relief is he entitled?” 

[No. 7/39/70-LRII.l 


fe*<=fr, 6 tTTvT, 19 71 

<mo Ttro 3 0,3 9 — tt: vtPt tor dr | fr ttr Tfrsra spjqyft % 

fkwJ faotdY TrPTqrrsr petty fafajy, ¥ t?*tt ttttitgt (*rm sr^sr) 

R fwbspRt ?ftT Tufrm % #4 ^ 1WT fWTPT t ; 

*rh tt:, % : sYt rtfit sur fairr tit % fat? f?r?ftr?T tr t 

'RT5PTY t ; 

STtf:, TUT, sftefrfffiF fTTTT STUlf>PPT, 1947 ( 1 947 Til 14) 'PY WTO 7-T7 sfYr 

STITT 10 TlY ^fERTr (l) (w) ITD sr^fT wfTTTf TT 5WW TTTT £<t, 

RTFIT trcT^gTTr tr<F sfhaYt'w srfSRTTnr TTcfY m TteRffTR aft €\0 

T^T ^¥^Y sfW, f'iTTTT JJW-TT TTTDP-T cffT, fdHTT TT¥, TTRdfYs, tTUTTT- l |Ttt 
JtYt T-fT fa ITT *ft TfT «ftsftf*PF sdWPT 1?Y RTRTFffifaw % fair JfiPfT £ I 


"WT fYlTTdY TEfaTTfal TO TdY Mr£¥, T?t TPTPjTOT— 1 WlTfR (ffiTOlTT ) % TTOET 
R^¥HTir ? 4Y¥Yo5rTiT,f^^r-fip ! dY'!m”4^tlTf, i969^rtwt t«tttr 

TOT if faiTT ’DPT- 5 % TOT if fpcfYfaT TO?% TO-ETT TOPItfTOT SfT ? 

•ifa dffY ffY ^ fror sEfafa to | ? ” 


[Ro 7 / 3 9 / 7 0 ~^( obryy 0 -- 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 7th April 

S.O. 3090 -Whereas the Central Government ls of oplnion that an industrial 

f s P^ r^fv b6t rf n J he em ?l7t TS u l, rela ‘On to the management of Hindustan 
Lalpeth Collieij Chandrapur (Maharashtra ; and their workn ? en in reepect of the 

matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 



Sec. 3 ( i i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4347 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exer£ise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-sectioh 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Labour 
Court, Jabalpur, constituted under section 7 of the said Act, 


Schedule 

“Whether the strike resorted to by the Maharashtra Pradesh Rashtriya Koyalft 
Khadan Kamgar Sangh, Chandrapur from the 13th April, 1970 to the 26th April, 
1970 in the Hindustha'n Lalpeth Colliery, Post Office Chandrapur was legal?”. 

[No. 1/42/70-LR. II.] 


df fTFrr, 7 srj-r, 1971 

TU W 10 3 0 90- — EE:, 7RETR Tt TFT % fr TUTS T f%fdf%TT 

fTTiff % it f?P|fTTE TtfTdft, (TZUI^ ) i'.' EE-ET EOEtT % 

fRTTTTf ?ffT TET TRTrrr % E'R ET STtRlfET fEETE fa TREE I ; 

tffa Eff: %^E ETTR TEE fEETE EE RIR fa TEE % fair fqrff^d ET7T EIHiHfa- 
EEHcft & I 

TUT:, re, trt^tf’TT faETE TfirfEET, 1947 (1947 ti 14 ) tt etttt 10 tV 
TTSTPir ( 1 ) % ’fEE (if) ifEff 7TfTTTt TT ERIE TR ifP, &£r R7T7T ^fT^RT 
TEEfEETETT TUT TfolEET E?C EUT 7% TElE tTse %faTE SIR RTTETEE, EfEEE T 
RTEfE^EE t fartr fEEftTE ere ) 1 | i 


'‘EET fa^ETE EnEFfE TtfarEff, ETTE t 13 REE, 19 70 ff 2 5 3TS?E, 

1 9 7 0 ET TflTT^: E^?T TpsjtE TfaHT »3ETE TITER RE, Jpl Et 

fff ?fE‘TTE ESI «ft ? ” 


[e° l/42/70-tTTo TTT 0 - 2 ] 


S.O. 3091.— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries 
Company Limited, Post Office Kothagudem Collieries (Andhra Pradesh) and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause (d) 
of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri T. 
Chandrasekhara Reddy, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Afzal Lodge, Tilak 
Road, Ramkote, Hyderabad-1, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Industrial Tribunal, 


Schedule 

"Whether the actioh of the management of Morgans Pit, Belampalli Division 
of Messrs Singareni Collieries Company Limited is justified in laying off without 



434§ TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


wages the workmen, whose names are given in the Annexure, on the 3rd Novem- 
ber, 1969 and the 11th November, 1989 respectively? If not, to what relief are 
they entitled?”. 

Annexure 

Names of workers laid off on 3rd November , 1969. 

1. Shri Nakka Sailoo 

2. Shri Soppari Bheemaiah 

3. Shri Gurram Ankuloo 

4. Shri Soppadandi Bala Posham 

5. Shri Gosik Gattaiah 

6. Shri B. Dasu 

7. Shri Ma'nthena Komaraih 

8. Shri Ghoppadandi Rayabosu 

9. Shri Senigarap Balaiah 

10. Shri Lalammad 

Nan i' - s of workers laid off on 11th November, 1909 

1. Shri Kudre Lingaiah 

2. Shri Angadari Lasumaiah 

3. Shri G. Mallaiah 

4. Shri Kathula Rayalingu 

5. Shri Chippari Ankuloo 

6. Shri Errala Raj am 

7. Shri Mekala Rajesham 

8. Shri Penchala Laxmaiah 

9. Shri Mukkera Ramaiah 

10. Shri Sangam Gattu 

11. Shri Konkula Gattaiah 

12. Shri Nagula Lingaiah 

13. Shri Elpula Lasumaiah 

14. Shri Ennaprcddi Narayana 

15. Shri Kalvala Rajarn 

16. Shri Bingi Nambaiah 

17. Shri Buddarth Kistaih 

18. Shri Arimadla Dharmaiah 

19. Shri Gadangi Narsaiah 

20. Shri Eandi Raj'am 

21. Shri Kapurap Mallaiah 

22. Shri Chilmula Ashaloo 

23. Shri Mudimadgula Raja 

24. Shri Asala Sailoo 

25. Shri Thelkuntla Muthaiah 

26. Shri Juttu Bahaiah 

27. Shri Dega Mallaiah 

28. Shri Boddula Sailoo. 

[No. 7/16/70-LR. II.] 

Tic To 2091. — W: RTTTT ^ TPI | ^ ^'TUTS: SFT^ i* fafefosr 

fTTtfr T 31T T flKI VdF TlffeTTfe TPTTt fe o , TmT TlSBJfR TtffelTfe (wiHT-SFivr) 
T ST4VR if TVT5 fT7T^Tl sffc TTF TOWT T fe^t tnp sffetfnr fen ffePTHT | ; 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4349 


Efto TTTTT TfT falTT TT ■O'lOfi'jfTT ^ forfw W 

1 1 

SET:, W, sfteftfiUF fTTH? nfiffTiW, 1947 ( 1947 TT 14) 3ft STITT 7-3T tfk 

arcr 103ft TTerm ( 1) totut (t) iet tttt wfawf stttt TiTft |tt, ttfr 
crcTTTFT TT STfatfipF TTfaTTW Tfcf TTTftt | fer% TTTTftH wfaTTCT *TT 31° TO- 
ETT TTTl |TT, f^TTF OTTPTT TfTTT ftkf, fftTT Ttf, TPTTftT, tT'MK- 1 ^TTT sfk 

^FrfaTTT 3 ft srfiTrrTT 3 ft ■Twfft’ft tt 31 f^r n; fftrftRT Trrft ^ i 

“wr toA fft<rkft 3ftfao7kr To ffto % fr?, twrwft jdttt % s«rt 

Tr^^r sra tt «rftr^f 3ft Tm totto ii fftft oft % ^ow: 3 or«n;, 

19 6 9 ftk 11 ^n^T, 1969 3ft fftOT % TTWftt oft TTOOTift 

^TPTtkr^ | ? offt o^T ftt ft ffto sroftto % $ i" 

■ ^rfiT'Trf % Tmr f^r^' 3 ^ir, i 9 6 9 oft tott fur >t? fftsr f^irr tot i 

1 “-ft 0334 %<3 

A 

2 ftr oftom oftonwf 

3 3^0 srsn^ 

4 «ft Ttarrceri omt ftmo 

5 ^fr or for ojswt^ 

6 Jsft oft° 05 

7 ftt ftft'OT TlOUWf 

8 sfr orcrom ttototj 

9 ftt ftftTom TMTTTI7 
i® f ot srrwrRT 

30 srfftTft ^ oro 1 1 1969 tt oott s[Hzt tt fftsi fftor tot i 

1 *sft f*t firTTUpWl!? 

2 «ft ftOTOTCi 

3 ? -fT Tfto ORTTWS 

4 s OT OTOOT Tirnffto 

'O S5 

5 «ft fo'-l I ft 31370 

6 «rt ?ftoT tmut 

7 '-ft ftoMT TMTET 

8 «fi ft'OTOT OWTWTO 

9 «ft *[3%TT TTOTWI 

10 «ft OOOOK 

C\ CN 

11 “Of 3>TTSTT 03£T^9T 




4350 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


12 
13 
1 4 

15 

16 
1 7 
IS 

19 

20 
21 
22 

23 

24 




«ft pTTTTyl dTTFR 


«rt THTTFrr trr 
«fr fjpft dTR4TTiTTg 
«fl fTTSITf 
nr stFritht wm, 

tft trr 

>sf|’ f M 'A H'H T 5Tvi i<i 

'a a 

«ff ^hTRWT TRT 
«fT TOTTf fUT 


25 'Sfi'RWgSRT JJRf^RTf I 

26 sftRJ apTlWf, 

27 «ft im Rwrcrr^Ri^ 

28 sfr flHT I 


[R° 7/16/70-^0 JHTo-2] 


New Delhi, the 12th April 1971 

S.O. 3092. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com- 
pany Limited, Post Office Kothagudcm Collieries (Andhra Pradesh) and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified ih the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
(d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Governmeht hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T. Chandrasekhara Reddy, as Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Afzal 
Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote, Hyderabad-1, and refers the said dispute for adjudica- 
tion to tire said Industrial Tribunal. 


Schedule 

“Whether the management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Ramagun- 
dam Division No, II, No. 7 Incline was justified ih not paying incentive bonus to 
the workmen, in No. 7 Incline retrospectively with effect from May, 1969? If not, 
to what relief are the workmen entitled?”. 

[No. 7/40/70-LR. II. g 


fit fceRT, 12 RSUT, 1971 

q5f ° STTo 30 92. — UR: rtRIK TIT | ~ i lTWS SffgTr if Wfffccc 

faq-ifr % ir ruurt #wrif (steh 

5TTW ) ffTT>3R(r 5fk ^ SlWfTT feTT? fsRRTR | ; 



Sec. 3 (ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4351 


*fk jtct: tctr ttct Fetr tj % f?r<T Mftra - °rtt Tiwfw 

^irrarfrl; 

m., urarFir F ttr ^FirfT'TT, 1947 ( 1 947 ti 14) ti strt 7 -tt sfk 

tTTTT 1 0 TTETRT ( 1 ) (tf) JRT STTcr wfacTTl TT S TtT TRT gtr, TTjfJq- TTJPTT 

tt<T?JRT ?rftITTtT trfsT TTTt | f^TT % 'TteTTlT SjftJTRV NT flo m^T^sR 

T-JTT sit, f3R“FT RATETT STOTT vftT, fTTT TtT, TTTffitS, i^TTTTTT— 1 fftTT sfjr EFT 
fTTl? Tf TJT whft^RT STfUffiTN tp> ^TT^rfHat^RT % fact fMffwT TRrft $ I 

sFjfrt 

"*qT fTTOTT TTfTdTFT TOTTl f%f*TJ^, TTRTijTR FtT^T To 2, To 6 TRTTfT 
% TT-T T°TT W T ° 7 ??TT7?T % TrqTTTT ffif, '*JTTSfl T'TTT *V T3, 1 9 6 9 T Tt/TToT 
TTTT T ?Tr fJTTTtFTcT TT ? tFt T^r, Tt TTTTI fffiT ^TTT T TOW f ? 

(50 7/40/70- r^To ?rrTo- 2 ] 


S.O. 3013. — W icrcis the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis- 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Khas Joyramijte Colliery of 
Messrs. Joyrampur Collier/ Company Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad 
and their work nen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed : 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable refer the said dispute for 
adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
fNo 2), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7 A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the action of the management of KhaB Joyrampur Colliery of Messrs Khas Joy- 
ram rtr Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Jharia, District Dhanbad, in stopping the 
following workmen, fro m work from the dates noted against each, is justified ? If not, to what 
relief the workmen are entitled ? 


S). Name of the workmen 

No. 

Designation 

Date of 
stoppage 

1 Ram Adhar Singh . 

. . Pump Khalasi 

13-9-70 

2 Gouri Shankar Singh 

Do. 

27-9-70 

3 Nageshwar Singh , 

Do. 

20-9-70 

4. SaWalia Singh 

Do. 

13-9-70 

Si Ram Nath Singh 

Do. 

13-9-70 

6 Shyama Pada Chakraborty . 

Do. 

13-9-70 

7 Balram Deo 

Do. 

13-9-70 

8 Amaldeo Roy 

. . Timber Prop Mazdoor 

13-9-70 

9 Kawal Deo Singh 

. Pump Khalasi 

13-9-70 

10 Prabhu Nath Singh 

Do. 

20-9-70 

11 Dhanesh Prasad 

Do. 

13-9^70 


[No, L/2012/3J/71-LR-II] 



4352 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II 

HTTo Wto 3093. — TT:%TfaTTUTmT^TTT|fafa%TTTO R fafafar 

fafaf % arfa Jr tW TfaumjT spifFur-ft qumfr fafafa, titur: wffaT, ffan murur 
<3TO TfaTUPIT litfJpuct % y '■F'3 IT ^*^4 ffaT-faf tfll TH% TTPFTTt % l*Tr 
iffallfa' ffaTT fatUTTT 

srk m: tittt tit fairs tT iiurfafaT % fao faiffa in Tfarffa 

mrwft 

WT:, ITT, tffatffar faTTT ufafaUT, 1947 ( 1947 IT 14) OTU 10 ^V 

TTOKT ( l) % iSOT (if) TRT TTU STfafaf TT fafa qrfa^iT TTUPK fafaTTT 

^TTfaTTSTfrTTTirf^TTTITraKT 7-TT % ifafa iffer %^fa ETTTT ift^ftfarTT ^TfW^TT’TT 

(T 5 TT 2 ) JJTTTT, ifT mUTfa'fcUT % fatr falfalT 'Reft & I 

SET naff 

cs 

"ITT *TTT TtqTTtTJT Ttfalfr TUfat fafafa, TT=mr srfuiT, farm w 

T?t grm TfaEwp fafaurfr % msuerifaT irt ffarfarfarT qfaf.m tt> tt% Tuff unfa 
^ TRl'Tt Jr TTUT irfa Jr Tt ifa ^ ifalTjTt mfaTffa | ? ifa efT T^FTT falT 
SUTeffa % oTTTT % ? 


TwrrfaT Tofirflr % tut 

TS41H 

mur sofa JT 

■N- 1 - *A 

UtM T'l anl<a 

1. TUT TTSTC fa^ 

. mq- ?5mrft 

13-9-70 

2. TtlJ 3TTTT fa^ 

fafafr 

27-9-70 

3. T^fTTr fa^ 

fatrfa 

20-9-70 

4. mu far t f%? 

fafafa 

13-9-70 

5. TUT TUT fa? 

Tfarfa 

13-9-70 

6 . STUTT TRT 

faYqfT 

13-9-70 

7. TTTUT fa 

Tfarfa 

13-9-70 

8 . TUTfaT TFT 

. furr/far mr^r 

13-9-70 

9. imr fa fa^ 

. . TPT gnufr 

13-9-70 

10. srwTurfa? 

TTlTfa 

20-9-70 

1 1. afar Tim 

TTNfa 

1 3^9-70 


[rr» r*T° / 2012 / 31 / 7 1 — ttt upc- 2 1 






Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 97 I/SIiAVANA 10 ’ 4353 


New Delhi, the 15th April 1971 

S.O, 3094. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers In relation to the management of Bank- 
simulia 7/8 Pits Colliery of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited, Past Office 
Dishergarh, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters speci- 
fied in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-sec- 
tioh (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern- 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Banksimulia 7/8 Pits of Messrs Bengal Coal 
Company Limited ; Post Office Dishergarh, District Burdwan was justified i“n dis- 
missing Shri Ram j an Mia, Underground Trammer 7/8 Pits of Banksimulia Colliery 
from the 28th July, 1970? If not, to what relief the workman is entitled?”. 

[No. 6/97/70-LR. II.] 


di ftrpRt, 1 5 srfcr, 1971 

^rr otTT 0 3 0 9 4. — RR : IT 1 TR # TTR | 1 % TRR RUNTS WfjRJRT £r 

fa'TRT 4' RTt R iRRf TO flftvT -MU-fl Tt ^RfRRRRT 7 / 8 flTR RdfRiRf, STRUT 

dtRRRT, fRRT TO R RfR? ifk RRRKt R sfK rnp 

fauPT ftrarRTR | ; 

*rk Td: %rtPt rrptt ttt Prut rt ^Ttrfffijfdd % far funfnmr rrtt rrhpt 


STd: , TUT, RkrtfOTT fRTK WftrfRRR, 1 947 ( 1 94 7 RT 1 4 ) Ri STiTT 1 0 R^ RT— 
ETKT ( 1 ) % Sr°¥ (d ) 5RT URR BrPddTt RT STRfR RTfl ft[, %RTPr RTRTT T^dd^RT RRT 
fdRTd RT RRJ iq-ftriwi Rt ETRT 7-R % STURT Rfed RTRTT TftSTtTTR RTiTRTRT 

RRRdT RT ^IrM'RT % f^rr ffRRTd RTfft % I 

‘‘dRT #RR RRTR dflPT RTffift fifo, RTRTT ■frjfaRT, fRRl TRRRt r] dRfRRfRRT 
7/ 8 f*TTR % STd-d Wd SRI dRfRRfrnTT R>lRVlff % 7/ 8 hi JR R?7T TRRTo 
fRRT, TF5T RTR’JR f RT aRT 2 8 RRTf, 1 9 7 0 Td=®Jd RTdT RT ? iff? dtff (ft 

RifRTT fRR TbJdlR RT | ? ” 


[Ro 6/97/7 0-^0 STRo-2] 
New Delhi, the 16 th April 1971 

S.O. 3095. — Whereas the Central Government Is of opinion that en industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bbowra 
Colliery of Messrs. Oriental Coal Company Limited, Pont Office Bbowra, District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 




4354 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refer the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

(i) Whether the management of Bhowra Colliery of Messrs. Oriental Coal 

Company Limited, Post Office Bhowra, District Dhanbad, was 
justied in refusing to pay Shri Bhola Nath Singh, Bleeching Powder 
Mazdoor, the wages of Category-I as per recommendations of the 
Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry with effect from the 
15th August, 1970? If not, to what relief Is the workman entitled? 

(ii) Whether the said management was justied in stopping the said work- 

man from work with effect from the 11th September, 1970 ? If not, 
to what relief is he entitled ?” 


[No. 2/170/70-LRII.] 
U. MAHABALA RAO, Dy. Secy. 


df fdcdt, lSTf&T 1971 

«ftfo trr° 3o95 . — tt: T dft t tter tit ft fr witTinrs 3rf®rfdftoT 

feiTt % dft Jr jf tt TtT TTfft tom??, sttstt vftrr, fadT tiddK Tt tftrr 

TtFfTTft % twj t tt-tt fdrtTTf tit tot Tariff % wto tt TitoftfdT fanr 

tow ft; 

Tf\j TT: DiTT b <TK T4T fwd Tt -TrdfdTTd T fdff fMfftrff TTdT Tt^ftT 
TTTSffft t; 

Tiff:, TT TtPitfTT fwT TfafdTff, 1947 (l947 TT 14) Tt 0TTT 10 Tt 
TTHTTT ( 1 ) % (ff) 3TTf 5TTff TfTTfff TT Tdtff TTft %-ftff tKTK I[cK3TTT 
T-fT ftoffd Tt TTT TltofdTff Tt STTTr 7-T T TTcftd fffeff dWT ?ftTtfffT srfffTTW 

2 ), TTTPT Tt JTTfddTd % fatr fddtW TTfft | I 

Tffgrt 

(I) “dPl 4 Iff TIFtTWI Ttff TFffft 'STTTT TlTT, fddT ETdTTT d?t 

•fftTT TtfdTTt % STT'dlTT TT, "Tt TlTT did ffff, Idtfd TTm: 

Tt 15 TdW, 1970 % TtTdr Tdd TSfid TRdft %DtT W ; 

Tt fffhrfTTfr % Td4- ] Tt *Df^t it ^dTIT TTdT ^TTTrfdd 

tf ? Tfc TtCt, fit TffTD frff spjdto tt ^t^tt | ? 

(II) dli TTd TddJd*gd' TT TT! TdTTT Tt ll fddHT, 19 70 it TPT 

TtTffr f PTTtfdd *!T ? dfd d£t, fft T? frTT TT i|TTrT I ? 

[bw 2 170 / 70 -TT 0 TTT 0 - 2 ] 
To tT^Tdcf PIT, TT dfdd I 



‘Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4355 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner) 


New Delhi, the 29th March 1971 

S.O. 3096.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954) 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B. S. Kini as Asstt. Settlement 
Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers by 
■or under the said Act with effect from the fore-noon of the 9th March, 1971. 

LN'O. 8/1/AGZ/67.] 


: ti feeRT 29 Rf^, 19 71 

tjR o ift o 3 0 96. — fRfRrfqcT *Tf>T (^TfasTT TRI TTT(R) ClfsrfffRR 195 4 
; ( 1954TT 44 ) TitlRT ,3#yqRTU ( 1 ) TT TUT RfTTfff Tl TUT TUT g'T, 
sfT tfto rrjjo fawfV Tt 9-3-1971 ?T NfaTrcV fffijTT TUfT 1, TlfT 

Rff TTfff TT TU SFTBrBT RftpFRl % T4 T fad fTOTTlfar Ofa ipl ? | 

[(To 8/l/iro3ff^To/6 7] 

S.O. 3097,— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (I) of Section 6 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, the Central Government 
hereby appoints for the States of Maharastra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Mysore, 
Kerala and Tamil Nadu, Shri B. S. Kini, Assistant Settlement Officer, in the office 
•of the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Bombay, as Assistant Custodian of 
Evacuee Property for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to such 
Assistant Custodians by or under the said Act with immediate effect, 

[No. 8/1/AGZ/67.] 

IJflo wto 3097 — RPlfa RfRftRR 1 9 5 0 V R1R 6 % 3WR ( 1 ) 
qf r RTfT farTfff Tt RiftT TUTf Ci %'^'BT RBFR ^ TfaBfRT STRFRT TFT ITT 

sp^it % «fr «ft o qff 0 faRtft R?m utbrt 5fftiw?r tt (ftrr fa r| itt^, rtrtr, 
5TRCT SRbt, if , %TNf , cRTT dlfRR TPTTRtff % fad fffSRi o' RfRI*P TffiRSTT ffajTT 
fTRT|rrrfT i BT TIT N7> TR R^faR BRITT RftrfTRR % RRT fa RffRR; srfRBJTTT % 
Rif T fad IfasrfffaT ^ 1 


[R5RT 8/ 1 /d 0 fa 0 far/ 6 7] 
New Delhi, the 6th April 1971 

S.O. 3098.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950, the Central Government 
hereby appoints for the State of Uttar Pradesh, Shri B. P. Maithani, Managing 
Officer at Patna under the Regional Settlement Commissioner (Central), New 
Delhi, as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to 
-such Asstt. Custodian by or under the said Act, with immediate effect. 

] No. 7/85/ARG/64,] 


bi faffa, 6 1971 

*ft° 3 098. — Rdfafa RTTRR fafafTTR, 195 0 fa' NTTT 6 fa 
TT ft T (l) SRf TUT fafafa TT TT>T TUT |R fafaff BTf SR' fafaff R^T- 



4356 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part H— 


FPdldUT STTWF (jfrEjTr, fdFFfV % spftd d^df d dddj 5rftr^irt sftsfVo dt° 
turret TT RHF dtd TT^T it TTdTRT 5rFRF$EP % spy^T qft TFT TF^ V PdR 1 
Rd^drf FrPdPdRR 3 TFT RT RR*P SETdd d=TTd dRTd % d^EW 1 fdFTd fdddd 
dFOfV I I [FT o 7( 5) tTo STTFo lfto/64] 

S-O. 3099. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of Sub-section 
(2) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 
1954 (No. 44 of 1954) the Central Government hereby appoints with immediate 
effect Shri G. S. Masand, Asstt. Settlement Officer in the office of the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, as Managing Officer for the cus- 
tody, management and disposal of Compensation Pool properties in the States of 
U.P., Bihar, Orissa, Rajasthan, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh ahd Haryana. 


[No. 8/85/56-Comp.I.] 


IjRo Wt° 3 09 9. — fdFRTfdd sRpTd (dfddFF: ITSf <JddPd) dPtrfdRH 195 4 
( 1954 dT 44) ^ ETTTF 16 # ddSTTFl 2 % ijd ) 3TFT ddfT 9lf ! RFfT Rd 
ddtff TUT TOF ?R% SIFT SUPfE 4-Udfcf EFEUf ( RNFf UT ) , d$ 

fceFft % ddirfdR R TTFFPUP ddfRUd dfSEPTFt Rf dFo rTjy 0 RFld 4Ft FTrTF d^FT, 
fdiFFF, TTsftRT, FI Jltdld, d'tfN, f%RTdFT d^FF ddT 1 IJ I I FlWP H Rv i q 4fF EFT 
Wt THTfrlRf ^1 PFpRF5rF, dddJ ffiFT Fd% Pd'TdlF % PdE ^FTFF dEFd FT dREF 
'trf’jTTfr ^fUFxfT & i 

[do 8 / 85/06 ^PT I] 

S.O. 3100. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri U. N, Sharma, Secretary, Relief & Rehabilitation^ 
Government of Himachal Pradesh as Custodian of Evacuee Property for the State 
of Himachal Pradesh for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on Custo- 
dian by or under the said Act, with immediate effect, 


[No. 10/10/Admn. 11/71-1 

VTo Wto 3100. — Pd^td TTFTfFT dSFFdd dTdFdRd, 1 950( 1 95 0 dd 3 1 )% did 
6 % ER did ( 1 ) *PF PTJTFT dfdldi' Ed dhld EFFfT f E %iffFd dFEFTF f^dFFFT did FTTd % 
FT^thTFI ddF dddfd dpEd p -ft Ed ° HFET E?F dEPTd $ fd^PFd TTFlfFT rFRFWTF ffdUiR 
Mdd fdddd dFcft | dTpp A dd dddt Ed FTT mp 5ft STpdFCTEF % dd % did ddfldd 
Rftrfddd % TTdTdd ddFTr dR | I 


[8WI 10/10 EJfdd II/71) 

New Delhi , the 27 th April 1971 


S.O. 3101, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a), Sub-Section (2) 
of Section 16 of the Displaced Persona (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954,- 
the Central Government hereby appoints for the Union Territory of Delhi, Shri 
Sardarl Lai, Assistant Custodian in the ofllce of the Regional Settlement Commis- 
sioner, New Delhi, as Managing Officer for the custody, management and disposal 
of compensation pool with immediate effect. 


'[No. 7/1/ARG/62.J' 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA lO, 1893 ^ 


fdTdl 27Nlfcd, 1971 

03^0 3ioi. -f«rfTifw3TffT(^ferr^rT3^'ra - )Nfsrfddrr, 1 954 T vrur 1 e 
NpTTd (2)ws ( 9 ) TINT?! STfdddT TT Tdtd TdftjJ(T %^T dTTlT tr^ffTT affiflddd 
NPJW TETf TFT d^ fedt T d?TdT fcUTTd twirl NfadWT «ff TTTUft NTN Tt ddtd 
tto iftsnn^ NfaTrO fdijdd Trff| ijmf^rr wsxx dft 

NiNWr, 51*^ ddT fdddTTT TT 1 


[rrw if l/q o nit otf \j 62J 
New Delhij the 2 9th July 1971 

S.O. 3102. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1964 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Mysore 
Shri N. D. Koparde, Tahsildar of the Mysore Government as Managing Officer 
for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers by or under 
the said Act, with immediate effect. 


[No. 2 (9) /Spl.Cell/ CSC/69.1, 


df ftydf, 29 T'dlt, 1971 

tfffo Nto 3102 — fa«TTfaff (tffddT ddT Jddfa) Nfalddd, 1954 ( 1954 
TT 44) Tt truer 3, dTOTTT ( l) Tf NTrT STidddf TT NNffi dTd |rr, RTTnu 

xrm % Mr, tre utt % dTTfrrdTT >sft rr^ 0 fio TtrTTt tT durdd ft Ndtj 
NfaTrrr % qtr it fdijdd TTcfr t, rrrfr t Td «trraff t> tt ht aft fr qr Nftrfwr 
% jT/r irr Ndrfd c* u wRr^nfrrff % fm fdTsrrfcr Mr nd £ 1 

[to 2 ( 9 ) rqir.T tytflo ddo loeg] 

S.O. 3103. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri V. H. Islur, M.A.S. 
Class I (Junior Scale) Officer of the Mysore Government as Asstt. Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officers by or under the said Act with immediate effect. 

[No. 2(9) /Spl.Cell/ CSC/69. ] 
JANKI NATH, 

Settlement Commissioner & Ex-officio Under Secy. 

q;*To 3(1 o 3103 — Mdim sdfdd (sfddT ddT dddfa ) (rWnur, 1954 
( 1954TT 44) TVaTU 3, 3W1T ( l) Tlddd wfadNITT 5UTPT TTdfN NTTIT 

ddTTN (f[ 4dT TT^d % isfMTo NddT, into 7o TTR° Ndd WT (ffTI <sNft ) Nfa- 

TTT) T dfTdT dTUUd NT TUT fdddd TTdt £ dTfr t Td TUff Tt TT NT dt fd 

NfarddN % sm nt dd % Ndpfd utr wferfurf % id % Mr Mrtfcd fdd dd 

t 1 


[dddi 2 ( 9 dN/TfrorrjTo dt/6 9] 

TTddft dTd, 

dTlddd NTNTd ddT d^d NdT dfud 1 



4358 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part If— 


(Department of Rehabilitation) 

[Office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner (Central) | 

New Delhi , the 24 th April 1971 

S.O. 3104— In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Section 34(3) of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), I, 
■Gulab L Ajwani, Regional Settlement Commissioner (C) hereby delegate to Shri 
A. L, Bahl, Settlement Officer the powers to decide cases falling under Sub-Sec- 
tion (b) of Section 9 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) 
Act, 1964. 

[No. 17(l)/RSC(C)/Admn./71.] 
GULAB L. AJWANI, 
Regional Settlement Commissioner (C). 

(qR-ffa faURT ) 

[tf (r«to) vror'wti] 

U f*eU[, 24 ulu ,1971 

VT° OT°3104 — fafTlfarr (uflTVT (ITT 'J'TTFT ) uFsrfdim, 1 954 ( 1 954 

44)# uru 3 1 ( ,3) irt situ ufeinff vr sttFt ’ruF |<t ff, ijupg tr^ 0 uuipft, 
UUW SRUfalU UPI/FT (/ft), 3TO f^f«rrfqR wfTT (ufrlVT T«1T TUTFl) TTfaf’-PTR 
195 4 vtSTKT 9 Tfr yTaTO ( 5r)T Tt T U[U ITU UPTUT ’El Mt TPU T futr ITTT 
uTmur ^^0 vtuVrur g 1 

[U3T 17(l) UK otru oifr O (RVo)/T7Tnrq-/7l] 
^UlT ITU 0 UUUFfr, 

UTW f UiUTd (uV) I 


DEPARTMENT OF COMPANY AFFAIRS 


Cost and Works Accountants 
New Delhi ,, the 24th June 1971 

S O. 3105. — In pursuance of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 9 of the 
'Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment i'n the Notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Department of 
Company Law Administration), G.S.R. No. 612, dated the 25th May, i959, 
namely: — 

In the said notification for item 4 a'nd the entry relating thereof, the following 
item and entry shall be substituted, namely:— 

“4. Northern India Regional Constituency: 

Comprising the States of Haryana,^ Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kash- 
mir, Punjab, Rajpsthan and Uttar Pradesh and the Union territories 
of Chandigarh and Delhi.” 

[No. 9/2/71-IGC.] 

M. C. VARMA, Under Secy. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4359, 

f>t*f faTr* 

(Vi i*id *1r Twf Vr<d ftt* ) 

24 1071 

VUHfo 3105 — TFT* ?rlT TTT JrsTTT* TftrfdTT, 1 959 (l 959 TT 23 ) ifa 
am 9 TV *TO 7 TT (2 ) % TT 1 * (sp ) % ***** if %fafa TWIT TIT* TWIT % TTft 
Tlf*?* 5 TTT T*fa T*T*T (*wrpf|- faf* * 5 *** f*TT* ) *f *f*g**T *o*ro*rr°f*° 012 
dfafa 2 5 1 9 5 9 if ir*TSTTT fawfafa* **fq* sflT *TffV £, 53 *?*: — 

*T* **r if TT 4 *TT TT* * 5 ffa* *f , fc* % fa* fawfafa* TT *fa Tf^fT 

Tfrwrft* *lTT*t, T*fa — 

"4 Tcfft TIT* Slfaf** f**f** ST * fa*T |f*nTF, fpTT* tfa*, *W *fa 
TWIT, <T*r*, TTTTTT* tffa TfTT *%* % TTW *«* *fa*T *Vt fa?*f % 
** TTWST* TTtfau | l" 

[*° 9/2/71-*rfa*r°Tff°] 
n*o *1 o TT'r, T*T *1** I 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SOCIAL WELFARE 
(Department of Culture) 

New Delhi, the 25 th June 1971 

8.0. 3106.' — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (I) of article 299 
of the Constitution, the President hereby directs that the following instruments 
shall bo executed on his behalf by the Joint Director General Archaeological 
Survey in the absence ol' the Director General from the headquarters, namely: — 

“All contracts & other instruments relating to the execution of works and 
repairs to protected monuments and other unmoveable property.” 

[No. 5/71/71-CAIU).] 

SARAN SINGH, Under Secy. 

fadT ** **r* TUTT* *S*T*T 

(*w% fa hut) 

*f frcTt, 25 *T, 1971 

b*o *>0 3 106 — Tfasn* % qfask 299 TT t*TT (l ) 3TTT TT* *fafaf 
*T TTRT TT* fcr TT^if* *§ fa%* TTfT | fa TWf TtT it IJWTWT * TfTf*%*T Tft 
**qffafa Jr fawfafa* TT*TT*f qrr fa*TT* fap* TT*fa%**h J*rT* *%* STTT 

fa 3 * wrrr*T, **f* , 

“*TfeT* GTTWf *k H4 TT* *prfvT Tt TTTT* Tfa % f*WTT* * 
*i*fE** TTT TTTT Tlfa K* TTTPTT I " 

[*wr 5/7 1/7 1 — ?fa otxo 1(1)] 

*T* f*f, TTT *f*T I 




4360 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part D— 


MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi , the 9 th July 1971 

S.O. 3107, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (8) of section 63 of 
the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939), and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Transport Wing) 
No. 39-TAG(8)/70 dated the 29th December 1970, the Central Government hereby 
specifies the amount mentioned in column (2) of the Table below as the amount to 
be deposited by way of security by ever'y applicant for a permit in respect of the 
class of vehicles specified in the corresponding entry in column (1) of the said 
Table ahd further specifies that the amount of security shall be paid in cash: — 

Table 


Claes of vehicles Amount of security 


(I) (2) 


Rs, 

1. Tourist Motor Cab. .......... 500-00 

2. Tourist omnibus with passenger capacity not exceeding 29 . . . . 100000 

3. Tourist omnibus with passenger capacity exceeding 29. .... 1500-00 


2. This notification shall come into force on the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette, 

[File No. 39-TAG(8)/70.] 

B. S. SINGH, Deputy Secy. 

*nrmir 

f^ft, 9 -Tri ! C, 1971 

«FTo WTo 3107 — fiteXRlfl vftrlWT, 19 39 (l 939 4 ) ST1XT 63 

'cNtl iXT (g ) 2 frr 5pffiT tfiX% i|fr $%X '-RTXfi fiXXTTX % WT ifXdfFT fiWTeFT (h [\q gd 

^trtjfr (8)/70f^TFF 29 ftxngX 1970% *rftrWT %7jftx 
(TXTK ft^rxi FTTtrjt tp tJ7Ts;TT 2 F FTT Tlftr X?T Xlfw % if 

TferfauT XUrit | 3Tt T'TTftT XT TUT*? ( l) %T Ttxfe: JT gfxsrfg?! Zffi %T 

%txx fitf iff % fiTfrix % sitt vtRHer % % sun tsrrift $ *ftx ^ 

3ft xft-Xlhri Wt I f% XRTfifi T? XTTft Jr W5T smnfr; — 


%tXX fiTfr tfiT Xlftil 

1 2 

1. ...... 50e.0«fio 

- qw Tuft-SUFTT 29% STfEPF . . lOOO.eOfio 

3. rilT+d -46 29% sft . . 1500. ©Ofio 

^ ’TftJfMTT SXT% fiXTlXt W % KTlfW tTTTK % ^^’ft I 

[%° 39-^tq^ (8)/70] 

^Tu ^ 1 




Sec. 3(ij)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4361 


CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, COCHIN 

(Produce Cess) 

Cochin, 11th March, 1971 

S.O. 3108.- — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Section 2(a) 
of the Produce Cess Act, 1966 (15 of I960), read with Government of India Noti- 
fication GSR 884 dated 20-3-69 and in supersession of this Collectorate’g Notifica- 
tion Nos. 1/70-Central Excises dated 2-2-70 and 5/70 (Produce Cess) dated 25-4-70, 
I, L. S. Marthandam, Collector of Customs & Ce'ntral Excise, Cochin, hereby autho- 
rise the Central Excise Officers specified in column (3) of the Table hereto annexed 
to exercise within their jurisdiction, the powers of the “Collector” under the Pro- 
duce Cess Act enumerated in column ( 1 ) thereof, subject to the limitations speci- 
fied in column 4 of the said Table in regard to matters indicated u’nder column (2). 


Taule 


Section of the 
Produce Cess 
Act 

In regard to 

Rank of Officer 

Limitation, if any 

( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

7 

Furnishing particulars 
about the Mill. 

Superintendent of Central 

1. xcise. 

Full powers 

S 

i ubmission of monthly re- 
turns. 

Do. 

Do. 

9(i) & (a) 

Collection of Cess 

Do. 

Do. 

I 2 («Xb)&(c) 

Recovery of sums due. 

Do. 

Do. 

13 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 

Power to inspect Mills etc. 

Officer not below the rank of Do, 

Inspector of Central ]• x- 
cisc. 

16 

Adjudication of offences 
etc. 

Assistant Collector of Cen- 
tral Excise. 

Do. 

l8 

Composition of offences 

Do, 

Do. 



[No, 

1/71 (Produce Cess.] 


].,S. MARTHANDAM, 
Collector. 


Tfansj?* sffT: vtf^r 

3<T?R) 

11 RTd, 1971 

3108. — iffffrdq-R, 1 966 ( 1966 % 15dt)qfi 

N'JRTU 2 (w), VTPT ffUPTT Tf wfspJnRT TrotrqoTrTo 88 4 TTo 26-3-69 sfk 

vPTJTl' StFkPPTTI ffo 1 / 70 -%^'lT TcTTdd qR ffTo 2 - 2-70 Wk 5 / 70 

(dfrfrT ^TIR) ffTo 25-4-70 dd srfwtTd T-Rf sflT Jf Splfdd %Rf\d 

TfqTUT TR TT ( ffffRTT ) rrHoUq-o JTTdUSTT, T5T qT TUd irfsTTRl Tf dffPT 

dReT Jtr , %^Trq- dPTITd dR % ThlRl dR tUTTiNd' dRrfl f ftp # wqfi S^qnfsPfiR qT ^ 

sr dtfr RiRtfr % tr^/nr wftnfircf tt ttpt w<x i 


4362 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


RTRift 

rfxT rrr>t srfsr- 

fRRR RR RTR 

%■ rrh Jr 


RtRT? f RT 

(1) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

7 

fRRTR % RT^ R fRRRR 


JTT RrfRRRT 

8 

RlfRRi RfRR 

); 

}J 

9(l) (2) 

RtRFT RRTRT 

u 

11 

1 2 (q) (sfr) sfk (ffl) 

13 ( l) *ft'< (2) 

R% TRTR !fiV JR: trrftR 

SRR % RTT RrP«fRRR RcRTRR RR % 

fRTteTRT 

1 1 

11 

16 

RTTTTEr RTfR RR TR^R 

RiTRT 

%RftR RcRTRR RiT % 
RfTRRT RRTfUr'T 

V 

18 

RTRTTRT RTT 3RHR 

I t 

If 

[r° / 7i(Rrrf% tot)] 

TTRo CTRo RTdf'RR, RRT^R? 1 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE, M.P. & VIDARBHA 

Central Excise 
Nagpur, the 20 th May 1971 

8,0. 3109. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under rule 5 of the 
C. Ex. Rules, 1944, I hereby empower the C, Ex., Officers specified in column 2 of 
the sub-joined table to exercise within their jurisdiction and in relatioh to the 
assessees governed by the provisions of chapter VII-A of the said rules the powers 
of the “Collector” under the C, Ex. Rules enumerated in column 1 thereof sub- 
ject to the limitations set out in cofbmn 3' of the said table. 


Central Excise Rules Assistant Collector Limitations, if any 


(L> ( 2 ) 


(3) 


ule i 73 G(i)(iii). . . Assistant Collector of To allow clearances of any excisable goods- 

of Central Excise. as samples in such small quantities as A. C. 

may approve in respect of any commodity. 


[No, 3|1971.] 
VIPIN MANEKLAL, Collector,. 




Sec. 3(i|) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4363 


vtifta sw^rif q* fimf 

(vwta ) 

TRIJT, 20 Ef| 1971 

itto «rro 3io9-%^frr ; 3?Tr? ttutt 1944 % faw 5 jro hot vt1%*u 

ITT WtT STOT gt(, flf t'dS5l <1 fd «-*l PH Pa cl TTTOTt % 77131 2 Jr Sj^fr 

^rfaTTfnff wt TTfunT sot Jr, faw^fr % wm viI-t; % ?mf sm 
niTfw sr fTErffrfrmf Jr R^faci "TWTgrff” % srfkgTtf sit, m^nfr %«r*r 3 Jr 
TfOTfiacr trfrqiTrTtff sft sott if gir, tot i Jr OTfJ- ttzt farpf % sirrifa Htfr>r Jr TPt 
wsifspirn: %5TT g : — 


3WK 5JW Pffi 4 

srfjmfr 

TfrffmJr, hfr qrtf ?f 

(0 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

Pum i72w(i ) (iii) 

tfH rh 47 (Pngtt? 

T7TRH Tpqr RUT f*TTfV ^ 

RMT Jr % IF! jf, fatTPPT 

RRTgflf, V* 
PtiffaR 5TOTT TTT 1 

[tfo 3/l97l] 

U 1 4 47TTP-T, 1 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 
(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 27 th July 1971 

S.O. 311 #. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis* 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines & Metals (Department of Petroleum) 
S.O. No. 4022 dated 4-12-70 under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (SO of 1962), the Central 
Government had declared its intention to acquire the Right of User in the land* 
specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of laying 
pipelines; 

And •whereas the Competent Authority, has under sub-section (1) of section 8 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

fcr 

And, further, whereas the Central Government has, after considering tha said 
report, decided to acquire the right of user ita the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And, further, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (4) of that 
section, the Central Government directs that the right of user In the said land!) 







4364 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , I971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest oh this date of the publi- 
cation of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Commission free from all 
encumbrances. 


Schedule 

FOR LAYING PIPELINE FROM WELL NO. DBO/TO BBAGGS, I LINE 
State: GUJARAT Dist. KAIRA Taluk a : MATAR 


Village 


S. No. 


Hectare Area P.Are. 


NAWAGAM . .636/1 

» 635 

„ 629 

» 630/4 

„ 620 

„ 631/2 


01 00 

00 50 

0 3 75 

04 25 

08 00 

o 1 50 


621/2 

621/4 


02 75 

0 1 50 


[No. 11 (4) /71-Lab. Sf Legis.] 

tftr trtrr 

( RftfaRR from) 

Tf 7 SJRlf , 19 71 

vi°wt° 3110. — tu Sjtfa'TR, iryq rt^r (RfR % rrrTr % RfsrRR tt 
rrr) RfafkrR, 1962 ( 1962M so) ktrrcr •JkR'Ttmr ( 1) ^ RtfkRTTR rtrttt 

jtfJwT faRTR ) sTr RfsiRRRT AT 0 RT 0 

W • 4022 RUffa 4 - 12-70 5 TTT RTTTT ^ RR RfqRRRTRRTR RRTJRl R 

nfR-qt % iTTr-rr % RfRqnr ^rr 'tt?t rurT Tt famY srift^nr % fRtr Rfkr rptr rr rrrt 

RTRR RtfaR 'FT fUTT Rr I 

Rk jet. r<jtr TrfRTrfr Jr trt RfafRRR k eirt e k rrrttt ( 1) % Rtsfk 
ETRTT fvfti % k | I 

Ark rut, rr: kYnr rtrttt r rer krk et fa^r r tYT % tur^ ^r rTst^/eri 

t-% RRRR R^JRt Jf kfRf%TR TjfRRt it EERIE fT Rft^FTr Rf%R kf *FT fREEE faET fc I 

RE, RR: ERR RfsrfRRR €t RTTT 6 k RWTTT ( 1 ) 5 TTT E 5 R urfar RE EEtE ETr 
%R ftR RTRET t^RRITTT RtfRR RTVrft $ % ?R RfsEJERT Jr RSUE R^IJ^t *f fafEfe 

SW '^fRtff ir EERtR RE RftUTTT RT^R RT 5 E fa 3 TE % EEtER % fair nRStgin *rf%R 

r fwi ittet | 1 

Rk, Rk EH RTO rV ERRkt ( 4 ) SUE ETR wfaTRt *FH EEtH <rk %Rlk 
R faTr fHkrkft $ fa w RfRtrf Jr hehThee RfsppTT kik rtett Jr fafar^k % strut 
kr Rk mfkkH rtrIr Jr, reV Etik Jr rrr ^h Jr, *r Rfa«rr % strttrr k sr RTTfa k 
fWfipnkn i 



Skc. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4365 




TT^rr TT'sTT fr Tf m 4 T -fr rr jff if, rrq ^T TT 'TT^'TTT^T fdTSTT % (TFT 


TUT — T TUT 


GTTT — TUT 

TTUTT — FTTTT 

c-> 

UTT 

TTiTT fElTT 

STT 7 " 

V urf i 

<ft it snu f 

TTUTTT 

636/ 1 

0 

1 

00 


835 

0 

0 

5 0 


(329 

(1 

3 

75 


63 ()/ 4 

0 

4 

2 5 


62 0 

0 

8 

00 


63 1/2 

0 

1 

5 0 


62 1/2 

0 

2 

7 5 


62l/ 4 

0 

1 

50 




[Ro 1 1 ( 4 ) / 7 1 

NTT rnu? Mud] 


New Delhi, the 22nd July 1971 

S.O. 3111.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 

In the public interest for the transport of Petroleum from Sanand-28 to Sananad- 
16 in Kalol oil field Gujarat State, Pipelines should toe laid by the Oil & Natural 

Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedule 

annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i), of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (60 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 day* 
from the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the 
land to the Competent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction 
tc Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or toy a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 


For line from well No. smaid-38 ( SI[ ) to well head installation at sanattd is 
State: GJUARAT Dist: MEHSANA Taluxa: KALOL 

Village S. No. Hectare Are P. Are 


jethalaj 

3 > 


jJ 


39 


504 o 

466 o 

467 o 

461 o 

459 0 

458 o 

457/2 o 


I 

10 

6 

7 

o 

21 

4 


33 

36 

10 

20 

50 
67 

51 


[No. 11 (4) /71-Lab. & Legii.] 




4366 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA V\ x-n [P^ R r II— 

fa 22 1971 

*PI° WT° 3111 — T?f: HTTR ^ *1*1 ffaT t % ktTffT 

JJ m OTT^T f, fo ’r'T’T I U Ttf n ^ftTT fa EFTX -2 8 % HTTk -15 iEF 

'ffrtrrTir % 'ifcnTT % fkq qr^wn;^ fa rrar th^t w>i grrr fasrf ^rr^fr 
^srrf^rr i 

fax w; w. srdfa ?Mr I % ikfr srrvfr ^ frm % surm % fair ptt- 
Tura Jr fam vrfJr Jr tttet ti Trferrr ?sri%cr Trurr otw |; 

sue, m , 'fjtfwr Tr^wr^ («jfJrir ^kr^srfsrTrr =rr «uft) wfulwr, 

1962 ( I 962 W 50) ^ UTCI 3 ^<T STRI (l) SRT ST57T DlfafFETr T>T SETk 

frr %j#u th+k Jr ^wPt ?ft stReett *ri%T ^Jr ^ smr ttwt n?re 
3 T 7 T ^ftfJr?r faTr £ i 

“ivid f% 'd’ e M '6 '(h Jr f^rr^5 ® z rfw, tut ^fn % *ft% 4 1 sm 'A i ® *1 (Vc&pI 
% fJrq; siwr ttspt srrf^Tfr, fa t«tt arffr^ Jhr ^rratiT, 

RurW STk T'T-VTFT trWT, ETT^U Tk, TlYTT-9 fa T7T TrtVUT % 21 

ftsff % vfcn; ^x tt%ttt i 

fax tJ^T ^TWT ^ ^T^TT 57: srrfsRT kkkw ; ^ fa ^FT ^klT f% *01 ^ 
irf ^T??n § fo fafa 'gJrTrf tit feft farfsr awjrpft i 

fSTT TTW 28 (tt*T H) ^ TTH^ 1 5 TT WWWW fET '-Hr-Nm % Rt? 


TTWT — 7J5RT7T 

NHI — +i$*i ini 


frrtrTT — tFil'H 

irkr 

TTWT fa kT 

Nrr 


q STk f -fTo 

0> WTT 






fo 

afiHM . 

5134 


0 

1 

32 

j; 

486 


0 

10 

36 

n 

467 


0 

6 

10 

)} 

461 


0 

7 

20 

j; 

459 


0 

0 

50 

n 

458 


0 

21 

67 

;; 

457(2 


0 

4 

51 


[rrwT n( 4 )/ 7 ik 3 n:TTwJrf 5 ra'] 


S.O. 3112. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 

In the public Interest that for the transport of petroleum from Old-Temp. 
G-G.S. Ill to New-Permanent. G.G.S. in in Kalol oil field Gujrat State, 
Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission; 



Sec jcm)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 197 1 /SR A VAN A 30, 1893 4367 


And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it Is 
necessary to acquire the Bight of User in the Land described in the schedule 

annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (60 of 1682), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 

acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days 

from the ciale oi this notification, object to the laying to the pipelines under the 
land to the Component Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construction 

& Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Boroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

So iedulb 


For H : frciH tern, old GGS II I to permanent new 677 S' III 


S rA tl : GUJARAT 


Djst: MESHANA Taeuka.KADI 


Village 


SI. No. Hectare Are P. Are 


Ambaipura ■■••••* 127 0 13 80 


[No. 11 (4) /71-Lab. & Legis.] 

TTo V'e 3 1 1 1 — TT: tnftT TT q? tpftrT ftri t % TI T f gd 

irq^ stewf | fat Turret w % ifrr writ jur-wnf ^ft 75 ft r^rr it qfr- 

wrf sft 7ft tTT-Iil tt 't^rfTTF % 9 four % %q qntqernpr % t mu qrjfrr 

XTPfPl STH Tpft TT%t[ I 

tfU TT 5TdtT ?teTT | fp ff jfr TTUft TT fejFf % 9TTTT % Pw rtTUT- 
qUrff TfiRTt Jr q’tN'T Tfh if TWIT W vfetrr vf%7T TUTT TTTOT | . 

ITT, TT 'TTPT'TTW (tPtT TWlT % T%TTT TT W) SlfsrfqTT, 

1962 ( 1962 TT 50) Tt «JUT 3 TV TWRt (l) 3TTT WtT HfacfTf TT VT>T TTt 
THTtq" URR % TUT TWFT TT TfiPTTI WtTcT TTfi TT TITT TUW-T tfcPIdl il 
TtfTT tTTT | I 

tht fr w 'ffa t Ttf sqfw, tt 'fifr ^ qr^q htw % 
fru werv T8T*r sufHTrft, wt srFjfrr % TEftr, frrfT ?fhc sumr, 

qqpnjTT ftT, qrkT- 9 Tt W xrfEr^TTT Tt FTiftT ?T 2 1 feff % 'fitTT TV H%qj I 

Ttr TTsrq wd qm °qfqr fqfqfq^s', q?r *ft wi Ttn fqr wt qtr q^ 

t fr THrt ij^nt wfourr; id qi frifr fqffer wqRFft Tt qn5tr i 



4368 JHE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21 , I971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Pmu 11 — 

*t**tt^ [ rfr ^fr ott III p t? ttt£ sfr rrq HI ^ % f-To; 

TTST — ’fjRTcr fTRT — MtPiMl TF^T — ipFgr 


TIT 


lUfsTT fiW tT3 T it ?TK f tfto tTo stryT 


susrdgrr 


127 0 1 2 80 


[FT^TT 1 i ( 4 ) / 7 lTfaT turf ) ] 


S.O. 3113. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that tor the transport of petroleum from Sanand-32 to 
Sanand-15 in Kalol oil field Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
and Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas It appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it la 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the Land described, in the schedule 

annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (60 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its Intention to 
acquire the right of user therein: 

Provided that any person Interested in the said land may, within 21 days 
from the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the 
land to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction 
and Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road. Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also atate specifically 
whether ha wishes to be heard In person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

For line from well No sanand 32 ( SIG ) to well head installation Award 1 j 
State; GUJARAT Dist: MEHSANA Taluka:KALOL 


Village 

S. No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. Are 

JETHALA .1 • 

346 

0 

3 

96 


345 

0 

8 

05 


fNo. 11 (4) /VI -Lab. & Legis. I 

M, V. S. PEASADA RAU, Under Secy. 



Sf.c. 3 (ii) 3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971 /SRAVANA 30. 1893 4369 

VTo *7® 3113. — TcT: fafffa 'HTT'TT fa STcffT facTT | fa fafafal 

if ^ ?rmiT!T‘F t fa 'TTUT TT77 4 TTEffa fa tffT % 32% tffa 15 TPF ^fafafJUT 

% fafaifaT Tfa TlfTETTtfO fa ff^T fapffa fa 5riiiYT 3'TT faWlt STlfa TlfrO; 1 

far irff. 115 sr=rfa | fa qfa Errsfar fa fa®fa % TTfaT % fa? qcWTTTC 

TTJfar % AOTT fffa % TTTfa *f7T qfsPFTT Slffa •OTTT mAfa* % 1 

3T7:, flfa Yjffafa TTfafafa (*jfa % TT^fa % faHfaT fa Tlfa ) fafaffafa 
1962 ( 196 2 WIT 50) fa STITT 3 fa T'TSTTTT ( l) TTTT WfT flffafa TT 7 Ufa fafa 
f q fajfa ETTfaT % TTT% Tqfal fa faETfaT fa^TET fa WTTT STTfaT TTSf 

3 ttt tfrfar ffaiT | i 

7 fa fa Tfa fffa % faTTT fat sqffa TT ^fa % TT% TTfaHTfa fa^fa % 
faq fafa twit Trfsrfafr , far rrfa nryffa fa srrfar, farfaf^r faT fa-m^r 
T'ffHT TTTTJTT far, ?fa?T- 9 far ^TT fafaqfa fa TTfaff % 2 1 ffaf % falT 

777 TffaTT I 

faT far STT^T «PT% q'TETT ??T sfafa farrfas' : faT fa fafa fafa fa faT TK 
TioTT % fa t Tfa TTsrrf Eirrfasr: fa tt fafa fa fa ^rnfa fa fafa i 


Ijfa faTT ST^ 32 (q»T«Ttf fa).% fa*TTp 15 IT »t W faHH n+" 


7**7 fatpr % farq i 

tT«t — irrTfa 

farfrr— TTfarr?TT 

trnjrrr — ipfanr 

^rfa 

fafaar TTVTT ^7ET 

HWTT $ fa q wn: f 

^ ETT*T 

349 0 

3 96 

n 

345 0 

1 8 95 


[#wt 11 (4)/7i-%wt p*t %rfanr] 
*T° fa ffar 7ETTC TT7, 3TTT fafa* I 


4370 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part IT- 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 20th July 1971 

S.O, 3114. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Electricity 
(Supply) Act, 1948 (64 of 1948) and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation and Power No. EL.II. 28(16)1 
67, dated the 28th November, 1969, as amended from time to time, the Central 
Government hereby constitutes, until further orders, the Central Electricity 
Authority consisting of the following members, namely: — 

1. Shri A. K. Ghose, Vice-Chairman, Central Water and Power Commis- 

sion (Power Wing), New Delhi. 

2. Shri P. N. Jain, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance (Department of 

Expenditure), New Delhi. 

3. Shri L. J. Manjrekar, Joint Secretary, and Legal Adviser, Ministry of 

Law, New Delhi. 

4. Shri B. R. R, Iyengar, Member (HE) , Central Water and Power 

Commission (Power Wing), New Delhi 

6. Shri B. N. Ojha, Member (Thermal), Central Water and Power 

Commission (Power Wing), New Delhi. 

0. Shri A. F. Couto, Director (FE&P), Ministry of Irrigation and Power, 
New Delhi, 
and 

appoints Shri A, K. Ghose as Chairman of the said Authority. 

[No. EL.II. 28 (9) /71.] 

d$ fdcdV, 2 0 wf, 1971 

tJRo-tito 3114. — fd«Td MTTd dftlTddd, 1 958 ( 1 9 5 8 TT 54) Tl MTTT 3 T JTTT 
dfd tUTVTTf Tl ddld TUT fddlf tflT fdfjd ddldd dKd dvd'K Tf ddd-ddd 

TT dtffFdd dfdtjddl HWt |o^do dt— 28 ( 15 ) 67, fddTfad 28-1 1-1969 dd dfa- 

Td T V dt fCf, dGPTT rrdaPU dddT dlYd fYT dT, fdfd drfdTTd TT 
'fdlddT TTd’r t I fddd fd^dfafad TTTPT fid : — 

1 . «sfr rr 0 To dtd, dlTSdd, %-dftd dd did fdfjd 71701, (fdfd HF«r),dt 

fdwft I 

2 . «rf froiT io d =r, d jut dFid, . fdtr dsrdd, mrd, d$ frufr i 

3. dt ird°d° djTJ dfld dk fqftf ddT^TTT, fdfd ddldd, df 

fe r 1 

4. -fr tttt> tttj drew-’; 73 t kitd dd dk 

dRk, fd^T ETT) , df fdedY I 

5. Hi dk hdoVfffl, d'TUT (did Fd^ 1 ) ksfTd dd HIT fd«Jd dTOTd ( fd^d 

pkd) d£ fedi I 

6- Hf d.o hTJo Fd?dT (Fdkfl JJ4T dk fdfd) fddTf dk fd^d 

d.TTdd, d£ fdc fl I dk 

Hi O0T0 did dfr ddd dTPdTBd TT dSdH fd^Td T<dt | I 

[do ^da 2-28 ( 9 ) / 7 l] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 70, 1893 


New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 

S.O. 3115. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of section 
SB of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, the Central Government, in supersession 
of this Ministry’s Notification No. EL.II.34(20)/67, dated the 21st December, 
1967, hereby appoint the Director (Commercial), Central Water and Power 
Commission (Power Wing) to be the Central Electrical Inspector in respect of 
the following: — 

1. Union Territories of 

Manipur, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and within the territory 

of Pondicherry and Dadra and Nagar Have)], 

2. Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 

All India Radio, 


3. Ministry of Works, and Housing 

Central Public Works Department. 

4. Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation 

(a) Indian Meteorological Department. 

(b) Civil Aviation. 

6. Ministry of Communications 

Overseas Communication Service. 

6. Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation ( Department of Rehabilitation), 

Dandakaranya Project. 

7. Ministry of Irrigation and Power 

Electrical Installations belonging to or under the control of the Ministry 

of Irrigation and Power. 

8. Ministry of Industrial Development 

Small Scale Service Institute, Madras. 


9. Department of Atomic Energy 

Projects, other than the Mines, belonging to or under the control of the 
Department of Atomic Energy. 

[No. EL.II.6(11)/65.1 

M. RAMANATHAN, Dy. Director (Power). 

df fceeft, 31 ^<irr£ 1971 

vfo Wto 3 1 1 5.— fkld wfafatHI, 1910, Tt HTH 36 Tt 
HTHKT ( 1 ) 5TTT TIN SlftcPff TT TTtfi W-Tj ^tr dTTK, , NNIHN *f?T *rftT- 

ifwfo ii — 34 ( 2 0 ) / fi 7 fklfT 21 fkHdT, 1971 % srftPWur 

rf 3 TTT NH (TUT fwd wfpT ( fkliT Tfid ) % ffiTHTT (dlklfkidT) tT, 

fkdfafcr % if TdflN fdfDTT % TT N fd*pTT TTrft | I 

1. ddkl STH 

trftrpjT, fg-yT, ^TffPT Nk ffidiRR ftNfPJI ?fk TtYd'D 5lk cfTTTT 
serk dHR % 9T5I % NtfiT I 

2. TEdYT wk STCT{Y«T 

srikH NRdkr srrTnjmNt i 


3 . ftprfa wk wraro 



4372 the GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 10, 1893 [Part II— 


4. qjfetr ftnrm ronra 

(^) trnrffa ttUht fanm i 

(W) fife fTfTFTT I 

5. R*ma 

*npr TR R*nr W I 

u. (q^fir fiwrn ) 

tswrrt qfrqt^frr 

7. ftmif *ftr ftrjRi rnih? 

siY*: % snrt f^ip^rrsftT fasr?[ i 

8. sftotfqv («ww intw 

Rq for fo«rR *rw i 

9 . otton 3Rrf fonm 

TT-RTT TUTT ffoTFT 'R mil fTW'nTtftT, NTTT % STfafWT, Tf T - 

q^rmr i 

[R° '|o tT^To-ii 6 ( ii ) / 6 5] 
tr*T° TT*Rm, Tq ffow (ffoqcr) I 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
(Grih Mantralaya) 

New Delhi, the 0th July 1971 

S O. Slid. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (2) of rule 9, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 12 and sub-rule (1) of rule 24, read with rule 
14, of the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1M9, 
the President hereby makes the following further amendment in the Schedule 
to notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of External Affairs, 
No. S.R.O. 21, dated the 23rd December, 1957, namely: — 

(1) In Part II of the said Schedule, after the existing entries, the following 
entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


(i) 


(a) 0) I (4) (5) 


“All Class III services and Head of Office of such Head of \ All 
posts in NEFA Secre-l [ authority a s may be Office or 
tarlote and other Depart- specified by the Go-^ such authority 
msnttinNEFA. vemor of Assam. as may be 

specified by 
the Governor 
of Assam- 


Governor of Assam or 
such other authority as 
may be specified by 
the Governor of 
Assam; where the 
order is that of the 
Governor of Assam, 
the President"; 






Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZE'fTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4373 


(2) in Part III of the said Schedule, after the existing entries, the following 
entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


CO 0) (3) (4) (5) 


"All Class IV services 
a ad pouts In NEFA Se- 
cretariat and other De- 
partment* in NEFA. 


Head of Office or 
such authority as may 
be specified by the 
Governor of Assam- 


Head of All 
Office or | 
such autho- j 
rity as may 
be specified 
by the Go- 
vernor of 
Assam. 


Governor of Assam or 
such other authority 
as may be specified by 
the Governor of 
Assam; where the 
order is that of the 
Governor of Asaame 
the President”. 


[No. 14(5) /09-NEFA.] 
H. 3. DUBEY, Dy. Secy. 


5 T$ fawft, 9 1971 

VO Wo 3116 — fafavl (T*ffv Tn T fVi'Ofi 7f turtH), 1 965 % 

Onm 34 % tfftrr, 9 % (2), 12 % “TT-f-pm (2) % 

(sr) T«rr fadir 24 % tjT-fwr (1) stu 'fifwif ’vr mfm- ®fr<? r gv, 
-rr^rffv, htta shvtt, tuuHV vY wn wto vo 21, 

ftpiw 2 3 fUfFSTT, 1957 % EFT RvHT if fwfHfa'T tfk WitR 

f, TfirfcJ : — 

(1) aw sp£j«fV % rft — 2 Jr, f^r^rtrur % vra, f^sffafircr 

aftrfat sftr tY ^pEtY, wife; : — 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) (3) (4) (6) 


af VET^FT VI VEOdT VT *Pft 
ETiT % tlPT ftr»n>ft 8TWST HT tHUT TTEtprf 3TT WBT 
if rftBT ^ff Vf HEY % TTHITTH STO % TFRTTTH JTU 
wtfr$ srtt v? 1 fHf^ snFyvpY mfkvrCt 


*r<fw % TTJtmH trr 
WtPT T? TT5IPTTH 
T 1 TT TFT 

snfsvrfY; 

Tl?FT % TpitTHH 

vr ttt$v tfr, 


4374 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA JO, 1893 [Part II— 


( 2 ) % nm-s n, srPTfi sTjfif >t tpt, ffurpT^uT 

^rf^T 1 Z vjfR T( ~i4ft, ; 


(O ( a ) (3) (4) (5) 


"^Tir CpTTfvTT % SRTITTT >171 ‘T-TR qiiTTHTT 97 r WTR ITfft 
4^1 ^ f DTFU 6T ?T ; TR % TT W-T % 

if TT4 f G^TTTN 5TO TT^TTRT 3RT 
Tfff TTf-T ?fN; TT TffspFfiit flTT^T SfifsEtTiTV 


5T<PT % Tl^r-TFf 
4T tlRR % IT^T- 
9ur gra 
SET STlfSTJpf'fV ; 
ar^r strr % 

■05qT(frsf zpr 

1^1 ft, TCT 
Tt^'Tlfr i 


[4° 14 (5)/69-T97T] 
TT^O TT^o 73T rM I 


New Delhi the 15th July 1971 

S.O. 3117. — In exercise of the powers conferred toy section 18 of the Central 
Reserve Police Force Act, 1949 (66 of 1949), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules further to amend the Central Reserve Police Force 
Rules, 1955, namely: — 

1, (1) These rules may toe called the Central Reserve Police Force (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1971. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Central Reserve Police Force Rules, 1955, — 

(a) in rule 2, — 

(i) after clause (d), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:— 
“(dd) ‘Director General’ means the Director General of the Force 

appointed toy the Central • Government through whom the 
superintendence of, and control over, the Force of the Central 
Government shall toe exercised and who shall, subject to any 
instructions that the Central Government may give, administer 
the Force in accordance with the provisions of the Act and of 
these or other rules;”; 

(ii) in clause (f), after the words "who will”, the following words shall 

be inserted, namely: — 

"subject to the supervision, control and direction of the Director 
General,” ; 

(b) in rule 27, after sub-clause (7) of clause (c) the following clauses 

shall toe inserted, namely: — 

"(cc) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule,— 

(i) where any penalty is imposed on a member of the Force on the 
ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal 
charge, or 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, I97I/SRAVANA 30, j 893 4375 


(ii) where the authority competent to impose the penalty is satisfied 

for reasons to be recorded by it is writing that it is not 
reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry in the manner provided 
in these rules, or 

(iii) where the Director General is satisfied that in the interest of 

security of the State, it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in 
the manner provided in these rules, the authority competent to 
impose the penalty may consider the circumstances of the case 
and make such orders thereon as it deems fit. 

(ccc) When a member of the Force has been tried and acquitted by a 
criminal court, he shall not be punished departmentally under this 
rule on the same charge or on a similar charge upon the evidence 
cited in the criminal case, whether actually led or not, except 
with the prior sanction of the Inspector- General.”. 

[No. 18/42/70-GPA-I.] 
P, P, KHANNA, Dy. Secy. 


d£ feyt, 15 [1971 

3117 — fodfo qfyd dipt dMddd, 1949 "(1949 =ft 66 ) 

dftdTTT 1 8 JKT ddTT Frftddt T7 ddtd fw, 

1955 JrdfodFt wm % fory, fdPdforfei fadd ip?jiyT ddpfV f, Wid: — 

1 . (l) ^fdddf (tfsftdd) fddd, 1971?>rr]: 

( 2 ) ^ diid-iifo Ti3iw Jr ddrod drffor dfd did 

2 . ^dftd fount jfoid dittf fadd, 1955 Jr, — 

(t:) fddd 2 t, — 

(i) did (d) % rdHftifiSd dT'd *Pd: Fdlfdd fodT 4IM J II. 

Wiq;: — 

"(dd) 'dfT fat?!*’ tt, %?rftd dlddT JRT fdijdd ditit dT d?l ftfow 
dfddd I fyd% dTSdd tf fcdftd ddddy % dd 17 wVOT iffo yrr qy 
fe t na u i foil 'EiydT dty afo, 3d % dtftd jy aft 3% +'tftd 

dddTT 3TTT fod 'Ely, dfdfddd $>' *ftT ^3 dT d*d fdddt % -nmi/t 
% q^diy JlRT dT WTdd dW; 

(ii) gray (3) Jr, "tffo; art" 3$dt % di3i^ fardforforer *Rd wdEpdifod 
fop sntTd, 

"dfT fofoUd % wffodd, fdd33 dty fdtur % dtftd ” 

(dr) fdd3 27 Jr, (7) % 3 d-ypjy ( 7) % 7 MM foryforford SP>¥ 5Fd: 

* 3 Tfd 3 foidT 3333, 3 dfd : — 

"(id) ^d fdddt *Pdfo*d fodfr dtd % did 53 aft 

(i) Jrt % ddtd qy dtt diifod d% dm3 %5mmqy dfayt fo d 

d?t ypft \ ford% dTTd dtrfodft wryTfdd wyfo qy fro ffot 

T 'f’TdT ddT I, dT 



4376 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Pakt II— 


(ii) stRtoIto sTfirctfro qro % f^rr toto srrftrTOzV to, TO totto 
t fRf T|r Mq^ra TO totter z't to I f*P to farof *r toRto 
^Vfd % rto ttot tot It tor % to 

( jii) ST^f TgTfTOTTO '-IT TTOTTTA R RAT | % TER Tl ^WT %T if, TO 

f'EPff ir T'lrfe Rfr % TOf tot totot totWTO Rfr 1, tot toFto 
zrfsrdfTO toR % fro toto qrftmzt *tto% R qf^irofTOTt qz fTOrz 
TOTO^TOlT^TOqTTOTO^^TT^TO^q^TOTOTOTiR 1 : 

(TOFT) TOT %TO % fapft TOFT TT TOf^T RTTOTOr 5TTO fTOTTZ [TOt TOtr 
RlZ TO TOT tJTO T T fsrn TOT Af TO, TOT FTOtSTT TO r(TOT TORT % 

Ftor, wrtFjt toe% ir ztojt tow qz, to? to ttjt: fan tot 

(Ft TO T fWT TOTT TO, TOT toTOt TOfqRt TOTOT TTRfq qZ toF-FTT 
^ tnfTO fWTOT: Tfcro fTOT TORT l” 

[TO 18 / 42 / 70-3fr O ffro [TO I] 

qfo qf 0 WE TOTTfTO I 
New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 

S.O. 3118. — In exercise of the powers conferred toy clause (1) of article 258 
of the Constitution, the President, with the consent of the Government of 
Meghalaya, hereby entrusts to that Government, the function of the Central 
Government under the Explanation to section 25 of the Negotiable Instruments 
Act, 1881 (20 of 1881), subject to the following conditions, namely:— 

(i) that the powers to he exercised for declaring ‘Public holiday in the 
autonomous State of Meghalaya shall be exercised only in respect of 
such area which does not form part of the Shillong Municipality; and 
(li) that notwithstanding this entrustment, the Central Government may 
itself exercise the said function should it deem fit to do so fh any case. 

[No. F. 21/1/71-Judl,] 

B. SHUKLA, Dy. Secy. 

TO fTO-TO, 2 1 TOTrf , 1971 

tpro sfto 3118. — Trqjqfq, tFtotta t totowt 258 T (1) jnr 
tott yrfqrot to toPt tza 1 tutor Ftota TOtrFTOrq, 1 8 s 1 ( 1 8 a 1 to 26) 

TO U~rrr 25 % PTOlrTOT % «T«fTO TOTOn TTTR- % $ R, TOlZR TTZTR TO 
TTfTfd T, TO TTZTR TO fTOTW'TO TOT T TOTOUT UR TO, tT'RJRT TOTO 
£, 'qq-R : — 

(i) TOttot rttot. tor *r, “TR^r-rfr wtto^t Fr” TOfTO tTO % 
fTO tort TO to ttTO TOTOrt to toft ttot TO TO % ar 
T ?>TT TO fTOPT TOT-qifTTT TO «rPT TOT % ] tfTz 

(ii) $rT to to ztr TOTO T tott?', TOtR ttott tto fro to 

Rq TT EqRt |, qfq- T? fTO*t T TT it TOT TOUT! Rt TOW^fV 
$ I 


[*T° T't> 2 l/l/ 7 i-RTfhr] 
TT^TTRq WT, tT tF^ I 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SR A VAN A 30, 1893 4377 


New Delhi, the 23rd July 1971 

S.O, 3119. — In pursuance of sub-section (2) of Section 2 of the Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli (Civil Courts and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulation 1963 (8 
of 1963) the Central Government after consultation with the High Court at 
Bombay, appoints Shri K. M, Desai, Civil Judge, Junior Division and Judicial 
Magistrate, First Class, Dahanu, as Civil Judge for the purposes of the said 
Regulation. 

[No. 3/20/71-GP.] 
R. C. JAIN, Dy. Secy. 


7 i 23 197 1 

*rr° i(no-3ii9.-^riN: j RR r (ftrT^r jr^rtur art Ufa? otjei ) fafARR 

196 3 ( 1963 TR 8) T?T SITU 2 ^ RR-RRT ( 2 ) % NTRTi'A R, ^?sfY*T AWS 

R^A-ArTrAJ A T(T*Tsf AAa £ H IH I'd , *ft To trq B 5 AT? fdiA I' AA, aJr;K WaSTA, 
'IT AfrfjRA AAA ART, A^EJ, Tit RTf [aiRRA A A R EAR PaiRA AA 

W A TAR At AT A T f, 1 [a 3/20 7 iat° ffo 

ttiTo Rto AA, RA RlAA I 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1971 

S.O. 3120. — In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Foreigners (Restricted Areas) 
Order, 1963, the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend- 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, No. S.O. 1337, dated the 10th May, 1963, namely: — ■ 

In. the Schedule to the said notification, for the entry “State of Assam” in 
column (1), and the corresponding entries in column (2), the following shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

“State of Assam including Meghalaya 

(1) Secretary to the Government of Assam, Passport Department, 

(2) Deputy Secretary to the Government of Assam, Passport Department. 

(3) Under Secretary to the Government of Assam, Passport Department. 

(4) Deputy Commissioner, Gauhati. 

(5) Assam Government Trade Adviser, Calcutta. 

(6) Superintendent of Police (To Pakistani nationals only). 

(7) All District Magistrates, 

(8) Chief Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Passport) 

Department. 

(9) Secretary (Special) to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Pass- 

port) Department. 

(10) Joint Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Passport) 

Department. 

(11) Deputy Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Passport) 

Department. 

(12) Under Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Passport) 

Department. 

(15) Deputy Commissioner, United K-J Hills, Shillong. 

(14) Deputy Commissioner, Garo Hills, Tura. 

(16) Superintendent of Police, United K-J Hills, Shillong. 

(16). Superintendent of Police, Garo Hills, Tura (to Pakistani nati onals 
only) 


[No. 11013/7/71-F.I,] 
R. A. S. MANI, Under Secy. 



4378 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part H— 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
(Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 

S.O. 3121, — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
3 >ecial Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 of 1948), the Central Government 
hi aeby specifies the following offences as the offences which are to be lnvestigat- 
e I by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely: — 

(a) offences punishable under sections 323, 324, 364, 379 and 399 of the 

Indian Penal Code, 1880 (46 of 1860); 

(b) offences punishable under section 251 and 26 of the Arms Act, 19W 

(64 of 1969); 

(c) offences punishable under sections 4 and 0 of the Explosive Sub- 

stances Act, 1908 (6 of 1908) ; 

(d) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clauses (a), (b) and 
(c) and any other offence committed in the course of the sain* 
transaction arising out of the same facts. 

[No. 228/10/71-AVD.II.] 


fff 9 1971 

UTo 3121, — ftwfr 5f^T PTTTT wfafnm, 1946 ( 1946 *FT 25) 

■ffV JJTU 3 STTT TTT ■fl’pRPff TT JpfW f q TTTTT, r^rUTJTTT, STTTntf 

•Ft TT ^TTTffT % FT T fafafW TT-ft | fsFffPT Spy'll facSfV fffstd 1 jfFRT Wm ITTT 
f*TT iJITfiT : — 

(>f) HRffto Rf^dT, i860 (l860 *ff 45) 97TT 323, 324, 354, 
379«ftT 399 % STCftff SSTfol SNTTR; 

(W) VTW srfyfHhR, 1959 ( 1959 VT 54) RTTT 2 5 ?f|T 26 % 

(<T) faPEte y srfErfffTP, 1908 ( 1908 *PT 6 ) *I*V »TTT 4 5 % 

wfifk stcttet; 

(w) unr (tp) % (ff)^r fftw ^ m wftro? srcmjl ?pu trwff *r 

<I«r tnapr^n: % ’EFprff Jr f*u7 m thrift vm utf dtfa 

% RTftr, • 


[Ro 228/l o/ 7 1 — *t« 3#V o— II] 

New Delhi, the 17th July 1971 

S.O, 3122. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
402 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri P, R. Namjoshi, Advocate of Bombay, as Public Prosecutor 
p| conduct the prosecution case (R.C. 54/87-Bombay) relating to State versus I*t. 
Col. Ottar Singh, at every stage, Including appeal and revision. 

[No. 225/9/71-A.V.D.II.] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4379 


feft, 17 TTrf, 1971 

Wo TT° 3122. — TIT xfon TP^ffT, 1898 ( 18 98 W 5 ) ^ tHTT 4 92 
TTtJRT ( 1 ) jra TTU HlfarPTf W TTTT frr TTPr T7TTT TT^JRT sfVftoWTo 
Tiiurufr, wfsrTWT, trt tt tmuT sfk qrdwr ruttnot Jr, srrr Nuc°Tt° 

5 4 / 6 7-5TRrf , T T TT SRTT sftffTT fag % TUTU Sr, wfrpJW TT N NT 4 Ur 

TTPT % fUT TtT NpTTtTT % UT if fTTTT TTTi | I 

[^0.225/9/71-^0 sfTo 3f[o-(ll)] 

New Delhi , the 26th July 1971 

S.O. 3123. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), the Central Government 
h sreby appoints Shri N. N. Saikia, Advocate of Gauhati, as Public Prosecutor In 
tlte cases against M. A. Salam relating to RC Nos. 10/67 to 18/67, 20/07 to 24/07, 
21/67, 28/07 and 2/88 of SPE Shillong! for all purposes, including appeal ana 
revision. 

[No. F. 225/19/71-AVD.II.] 
fff fecTl, 2 6 TTTf , 1971 

Wo Wto 3123 — TIT 9TTTT Ti^Tl, 1898 (l898W 5 *[) TRl 492 
3TUTTT ( lJSRlTTfr tfrfWTrWTfrT^Td TTTR, AT^T'fr % NfTq'WT Nr 

irioTrfo TrpfrqT pr, ittstitt, (TtroTTo unit % fans (ntt jfrT «rmi farrm %, 

[purr trstp r 0 / 4 / e 7 t 1 s/g 7 , 20/67 If 1 4 / g 7 , 2 7 / g 7, 2 s/ e 7 ^rqr 2 / 68 % 

T N#T T4T T%<T 4T*fY STcflRdf ^ TTT NfaTUrsfr ^ f frqTff 

TUP | I 

[To ^To 2 25 19/71 -Po^otTo-II] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th July 1971 

O, 3124, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
ad with section 8, of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (25 
of 1940) and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Govern- 
ment with the consent of the Government of the State of Bihar, hereby extends 
the powers and jurisdiction of the members) of th® Delhi Special Police Establish- 
ment to the State of Bihar for the investigation of offences specified In the 
Schedule hereto annexed. 


The Schedule 

(a) offences punishable under sections 147, 148, 307, 323, 324, 354, 379 and 
1 309 of the Indian Penal Code, /1860 1 (45 of I860); 

(b) offences punishable under section 25 and 26 of the Arms Act, 1959 

(54 of 1959); 

(c) offences punishable under sections 4 and 5 of the Explosive Sub- 

stances Act, 1908 (0 of 1908); 

(d) attempts, abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned, in clauses (a), (b) and 
(c) and any other offence committed in the course of the same 
transaction arising out of the same facts. 

[No. 228/10/71- AVD.II.] 
B. C. VANJANI, Under Secy, 



4380 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30. 1893 [Part II— 


<n$5T 

wf 93FfiI^, 1971 

«FTo WTo 3124- — fcwTl UTTTT wWtiUT, 1946 (l946 

25) 9TII 6 % TO fifST STRl 5 TTSTITT (I) STTT ST^T mfacpff, Slk ftfiRr 
?T T6T 3FTH qT"fT 5FT ?T*fr 5lf^riff TITTtT TZT %^fET E'TTTfT, rrTC-fpr, 
f^TTTTTT«Ft TOTT47[ Huff'd %, fccdt fWT UTFUT $ ¥lT^rr?fTr TO 

^rfsT+TpcaT ti, to sro *Fjq;*rt *i fafTfe TOTsfr tt to<pji tot % farr, 
fjnjTT TT'jT 31 fa/TO TOTT I I 

WTtnft 

V CN 

( ! Fr) TOd^TOddf^, 1860 ( 1860 TT 45) *f?T TOT 147, 148, 307, 
323, 324, 354, 379 sftT 399 % STtftd WTW; 

(«r) w ^alror, 1959 ( 1959 tt 54) tot 25 sfk 26 % srtftr 
WJ9; 

(t) fTORterr T?T*f ^rf'Enr, 1908 (1908 ^1 e) qrt arm 4 *fk 5 % 

wto Ts^ftir spirm; 

(t) ’arts (t) d (t) E Tfro pt ur srftpr wtttut to to ? t \ tot 6 ; 

TO % ?r^TT Jr f^iT ^ft fspft to toth % to n tt t 

to Jr tot, |^T«r *rk tto i 

[^fo 2 2 8 / 1 0/7 HTofWtfto-Il] 

TtoUTo TOPfl, irf^r | 


(Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi , the 9th July 1971 

S.O. 3125. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri aBnailal Parikh, Advocate of Bombay, as Public Prosecutor 
to conduct before the Court of the 16th Presidency Magistrate, Ballard Estates, 
Bombay, Karwar Conspiracy Case No, CW 2/71 and hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India, Cabinet Secretariat, 
Department of Personnel No. 42 1/9/7 1-AVD-IV dated tire 17th May, 1971, 
namely: — 

In the said notification for the words and letters “Sarvashri K, J. Khandalwala 
and B. A. Pandya, Advocates of Bombay”, the words and letters "Sarvashri K. J. 
Khandalwala and Bansilal Parikh. Advocates of Bombay" shall be substituted. 

[No. 421/9/71-AVD-IV.] 
K. L. RAMACHANDRAN, Under Secy. 
(vr fa* faum) 

fTO=ft, 9 1971 

VToWlo 31 25. — T’TTfWflTffdT 18 98 ( 18 9 8 TT 5) ’fit TOT 4 92 4ftTOTOT 
( 1 ) STTT TTO wftcPff TT TTO TOt Jti TdTTT TOUT, TOlf % TTTTTO J sf> TOtTOT 



Sec. 3 (ii)] THE’ GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 197 1 /SRAVANA 10 , 1893/ 4381 

tiFtu, ffifTyjfrr 1 6 -tt? qzzz, % ^qrjmrq- # '17313 t^tIttrt %r' 

#«qr ero rif^o 2/3/71, %F tpst ttt % f<r^ TTT-wFvw'rTT fipjw tt#t 

f ^TTSTTT TIRT ETTTT, rF^RScT RfW % TT#! ; , fa*TPT %F SlFflTJW RTffiT 
421 / 9 / 7 Ftttt 17 ni, 1971 n | : — 

Tiff TftW TT Ft Eapfr %o#o 3J JH3TH vftr ttolTo TETSTT’ 

w^'t # fa wsrtf % wd tt "?n^rf % T^r?T%£, Ht«ft 3»?o TiTTiT 

TrTHTH Tlfer” 5TS? cTTT ?TWT 7TJ feT TT## I 

[#o4 2 1/9/7 1-TTo^o tMV] 

To t^To mT tFtt i 


CIVIL AVIATION DEPARTMENT 
(Office of the Director General of Civil Aviation) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25 th June 1971 

S.O. 3128. — In pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 78-A of tire Aircraft Rules, 
1937 and in supersession of S.O. No. 1302, dated the 3rd April, 1968 published in 
the Gazette of India Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3, Sub-Section (il), dated the 
4th April, 1968, the Director General of Civil Aviation is pleased to authorise the 
following officers to demand for examination Admission Tickets for entry into In- 
ternational and Domestic Passengers Booking Halls and Lounges and the 
enclosures appertaining thereto in the Government Aerodromes at Santa Cruz 
(Bombay), Dum Dum (Calcutta) and Meenabakkam (Madras): — 

1. Controller of Aerodromes, Bombay] Calcutta | Madras. 

2. Senior Aerodrome Officers, Aerodrome Officers, Assistant Aerodrome 

Officers posted at the airports mentioned above. 

3. Administrative Officers and Accounts Officers of the Civil Aviation De- 

partment posted at the Airports mentioned above. 

4. Aerodrome Operators, Airport Ticket Clerks, Caretakers and Chowkidars 

posted at above-mentioned airports. 

5. Any Police Officer. 


[No. 15-13/67-Revenue.] 
G. C. ARYA, 

Director General of Civil Aviation. 

fwFsn ftmppr finw 
fafiPPT tr^rfnisT* 'cvfim) 

sn^i?r 

ffif 25 3{R, 1971 

VTo *T|o 3126. — f#zpT, 1937 % fdTR 78-T % TqffRTR ( 3 ) % 
sfhtw # m i t-i % srarnTPT tot 2 , * 3 rr 3 , ( 1 1 ) mi 4 sjW, 

1968# STTrFwd TOHJTOT #o TToSTro #0 1302 dlftW 2 *T5HT 1968 
Tt wFy^i'ti |rr FafTT f#TOFT H6 iFi3vtt P6*hFd Riff ?rf#TTfpff %t flldiiy r 
); (%WTfTT ) tftT #%TT TOT (#3TR ) % dTTI-0 pit TK 



4382 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 

sfk 4f%4 CTHt sfk %kff -.3-4 % st^trT % ^ % fair strut 

fehT 344% TfftTT 44% % f%tr 414% % fatr 44RT % — 

1. fTTf 4|T f%44T RT4$/4?RWr/RTTR 

2. 37TT 4fw?T rrqTTtjf <TT TTET 3%«5 [TT[f Rff 4Tfw4; Wit Wfl fflfWT, 

R?i4+ frrf Rfr mferr I 

3. 37TT 4pj)^i rTJTTTk'f 4T TffRT f%f%4T fq-Hini f%4T4 % T^ITRfHT %\fw\^t 

srk %w Rftmfr i 

4. SH^fuid rFTTTkt 4T %4TT RfT 44P-1T, 44741 <i fd4id Plf'IT, T4f q 1 4 

%k %kten: i 

5. 4%f *% jftRT RTf%iRT I 

[%° 15-13/6 7*TT5Tf4 ] 
%Yo R%o 43%, 
f%f%4 f%RFT4 RSrf%% SIT ( 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14 th July 1971 

S.O, 3127. — In exercise of the powers conferred by suib-sectlon (1) of Section 
3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, the Central Government hereby re-appoints the 
following persons as members of the Central Board of Film Censors with effect 
from the dates as given below: — 


S. No. Name 


From To 


1. Shri A. L, Srinivasan 25-7-71 30-9-71 

2. Shri B. R. Chopra 26-7-71 30-9-71 


[No. F. ll/5/71-F(C).I 


RR4T %k 5f 4TT°T RRTWtf 

r' 


Tf f%F?ft, 14 ^rrt 1971 

IJRo S%o 3127. — Rfaf%RR, 1952 4% RHI 3 4% RTRITT (l ) 
RTTT wfKRTTTf 4T 4414 44% gn %f#tR RT4TT % 4T43T7T ^TfTTTT 4% 

ft 4| ffkWf % f%?ff %%T 3fk 4?r fqR % R3TR f%7J4ff f'FTT | : — 

RiR RTR % 414 T4 

RWT 

1 ^ito itro >sftf%4RTff 25-7-71 30-9-71 

2 RTTa %%TTT 26-7-71 30-9-71 


[%W Iffo 1 1 / 5 / 71 -tr T ho%to] 


Sec. 3 (ii) j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4383 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1071 

S.O. 3128. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of the Cine- 
matograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby ap- 
points following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Cen- 
sors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect 
from 1st July, 1971 to 30th September, 1971. 

1. Dr. S. Vijayalakshmi 

2. Smt. Leela Parthasarathi 

3. Smt. Sarojini Varadappan 

4. Kumarl P. Shanta Bai 

5. Smt. M. Leelavathi 

6. Shri B. S. Srinivasa 

7. Smt. Rohini Krishnachandra 

8. Dr. (Miss) C. M. Leelavati 

9. Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyulu. 

[No. F. U/2/71-F(C).] 


fawfr, 15 3T5 Tt£, 1971 


tT?r° 3129. — srfafatrp, 1952 # tmT 5 ( 1 ) 

(RRT ) fawanjft, 1958 %fatPT 9^ BrfWr 2 % RTO <Tfor faw 8% BTfiRPT (3) 

mr srerf srfwrfi =Fr srsfPr ^ gtr, ttprt r f'fieR art «rt£ R tow 

TfTf% trR^gTfT fwWw ®Tf«RFff “fit 1 ^nf, 1 971 R 3 0 fRcP-STT, 1 971 RF RW zfti 
% PcTTR RBTfWTT R'hFT *tT fRW ftFJW IpFNT | : — 


1 . ST o tpif o f flAu 'T&rfr 

2. sfr-TT 9PTraiT«ft 

3. 

4 . fRifr tVo yrpdT «rrf 

5. «iWt tnr° 

6. >sft 'fto tTfl" o «frfvprr*T 

7 . “J I 0 ■if Tlf^fl 

8. (f RpfV ) ffto tnro HtaTTFff 

9. ^fpTrff f£*Hdl Sf3r^J% 


[flSRi Tifo 11/2/7 1-C^B^^fr^ ] 


S.O, 3129. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5(1) of ?he 
Cinematograph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 
9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shrimati Jayasree Sen as member of the Advisory Panel of Central Board 
of Film Censors at Calcutta with effect from 1st July, 1971 to 30th September, 1971, 

[No. ll/4/71-F(C).] 


qflo !Tto J 129 — RTfFT fffaf?PBT, 19 52 ^ NRT 5 (l ) StVt WfTT 
1 958 % fTTP 9 % TT-fTTP (2 ) % PIN Tfed fazpT 8 % TT-fdTP 
{3 ) 3TTT 7TB 'crftmff *FiT 5RT>r ^ % T^JKT NttpfT BTNtlirT Tt 

1 1 1971 30 ffTd WfT, 1971 cTB % f lfRT ftfirR RRT sfpf % fFRlJTTT 

spT RTTR f’FhT | | 


[R5TT 1 1/4/7 1-f^oJfro] 



4384 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 

New Delhi, the 16t h July 1971 

S.O. 3130. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 10 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Smt. 
S. R. Venkataraman, Station Director, All India Radio Hyderabad, to officiate as- 
Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay with effect from the 
forenoon of 2nd July, 1971, until further orders. 

[No. F. 2/51/71-FC.] 

K, K. KHAN, Under Secy- 

feesft, 16 1971 

wto 3130. — TUfNiT (tr'tTT ) fdiRIWfV, 1958 % faTT 1 0 % ffRT 
TUT STftFERt' «PT STtfUff TRft $tT, %7gfpl ERWT ?T RdTSTZT fT^fPT, WFli?ETRft, 

*sfTRcfr tTTpo TR° 2 Soffit, 1971 % ^ ?UI$r W%?1 fPE, UTFTTW 

TT^fsm wftpprtt, %?#tr fer tir sfr#, fww fwn $ i 

[er Wo 2/51/71-^0 iftoj 

%0 %o 5TPT, WTC Elf%T I 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 

S.O. 3131.— In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shxi K. K. Mukerji, Assistant in the Consulate of India, Basrah, to 
perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 4th March, 1071, 
till 28th April, 1971. 

[No. F. T. 4330/4/71.1 

f«W» RTWT 

fff fcwft, 21 ^Tlf, 1971 

t[TTo Tt 0 3i3i, — TREtfiPE irq 1 WTvft wrdTRt (7PTT t/d 5RT) trftrfmUT, 
194 8 % ITS 2 dTO (Tl) % tEJlRN T WS ERTR WRITER! fUTcT RRT 
% uqmTlTIff h : EffiUT'E, ^ %o %o iJISRff ^El 4 TIT , 197 1 % 2 8 W5f, 1971 (FE 
tpffTTr Erfa TT? TIT TR% W TfUTTR Ifft | I 

[w?u ff WT €\° 43 3 0/ 4/ 7 1] 

S.O. 3132. — In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri B. C. Chaturvedi, Assistant in the Consulate General of India, 
Muscat, to perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 26th 
December, 1970. 

2. Notification No. S.O. 120. dated the 9th January 1971 in respect of Shri 
Narinder Singh, Assistant may be treated as cancelled with immediate effect. 

[No. F. T. 4330/2/70,1 

HHoTto 313 2. — RTdfmE FT RTtR^ft TRTTRT (WI FT rpE) srfafffTT, 
1948 %^t 2 Tt STRT (t) % TEJEROT R ERER 5RI TEWT-fRTT TTTcT 

% TTR TtT'TTTre EREUE, TT tVorYo TT 2 6 feuSR, 1 9 7 0 % WERTt Tf*IWlf 

% ^T R SET*} TRrT W TlfKFER | 1 



Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4385 


2. *sf|- TddT fm, TfTTqr £ T^ wfSTIJTTT To gT° 5 ft° 12 0, fcriTr 9-I-7I 

*rt ?Tt TTT % RTTT TfT I 

[TT^T To £V° 4330/2/70] 
New J?elhl, the 31 st July 1971 

S.O. 3133. — In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act. 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shrl I. S. Ahluwalia, Assistant in the Commission of India, Mombasa 
to perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect, until further 
orders. 

[No. F. T. 4330/4/71.] 
D. C. GOHAIN, Attache (Consular). 

^Toiftc.3133 — TTTTfTTT tt>t qjfrsft vfT’FTTt TfafThT, 1948 

% STY 2 Jpt TT7T (v) % SPJTTW 3 %?£ TTR JTTT «fV TT^o tr^ 0 W^TfTTT, 
T^TTY, TRTTTTfftTT, Tt c TTTT ) ^'tcmT^, TTT 1 TTTT fUT cTV, TTTtI VfTTTJ Tt 
tt4 ttt ti tTsttit | i 

[TT^T TT9T 5fVo 4330/ '/7l] 
Tto Tt^T, 

T^rrrlr (vfr^ft) 1 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHOKITY 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1971 

S.O. 3134,— The following notifications which the Delhi Development Authority 
proposes to make in the Master Plan for Delhi are hereby published for public in- 
formation. Any person having any objection or suggestion with respect to the 
proposed change may send the objection /suggestion In writing to the Secretary 
Delhi Development Authority, pelhi Vikas Bhavan, Indraprastha Estate, New 
Delhi-1, within a period of 30 days from the date of this notice. The person 
making the objection/suggestion should also give his name and address: — 

Modification 

“At page 60 of the text of the Master Plan.— 

(1) for item (i) of clause (b) of the paragraph headed “III. Government Offi- 
ces” the following shall be substituted, namely: — - 

“(i) F.A.R. for plots other than those described in item, (ii) and (iil) here- 
under 150.” 

(2) After ite m(ii) ibid, the following shall be added as item (Hi), namely — . 

(iii) F.A.R. for plots 6 and 7 of Indraprastha Estate, located to the south of 
the junction of Ring Road and Indraprastha Marg 400.” 

[No. F. 3(421)/68-MP. Pt.] 
H.N. FOTEDAR, Secy. 


ftWTT TtfTfiTT 

df 21 SPTCT, 1971 

VTo WTo 3 1 34 — fevft fTTTT TTfsTTOJi fcpjf TWtTT TtTTT (tTCTT TUT) 

Jf ^TTT TT^TT | *lk T^TTRITT spV gTTT % ftp? SRTTfw fw «IT | I 

Tt tfri (PTTa Jr Ttf tt gsnr ttTr t> t? sprft srnfiT / gsnr 




4386 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


TT fOTTT flfTT, f^fVfETTE ElfiFFTE fTFTE, EEE, lETTE TR?, E$ ffrET-1 
% ETE W SEPTUET % 30f?E % RtffTEE TOI | I E) ^=1 ETEfn/ ??nE EE 

e$ ?mr ete eet >jTr qET vfr feref i 

ee>ee : — 


"EEEEfaET ^ qcs 60 9T (l) TI (l) HTTT (eV) qn ( 3 ) *T ftt E?r 

vWt” ETspTft TTEfaE” E fESTTEEtEE fTETETEr £ I 
"( 1 ) ee ( 2 ) eVt ( 3 ) ifEferftrd' ito etto ?e 

w: isoftET " 1 

(2) EE ( 2 ) ^'Ti^TrT EE (3) ?E ETR T^TET^ET I 

(3) EEPJW EPf EET fTE T>T sfaEE %Ef8TE IJETE E° 6 suft^ 7 

«Fi>E^E , Ko E° ETTo 400 ”1 

[Eo^<Eo 3 ( 421 ) / 68-^0 fro] 

t^Eo irrfo qit%ET, Ef^E I 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 17th July 1971 

S.O. 3185. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the Presi- 
dent hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Central Cost Accounts 
Pool (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1961, namely: — 

1, (1) These rules may be called the Central Cost Accounts Pool (Recruitment 
and Conditions of Service) Amendment Rules, 1971. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Central Cost Accounts Pool (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) 
Rules, 1961, — 

(i) in Schedule I, for the Table under the heading “Grades and the No. of 
Posts in each grade”, the following Table shall be substituted, namely; — 


Grade 

Permanent 

Temporary 

Total 

Chief! Cost Accounts Officer 

I 

— 

I 

jDeputy-Chktf-CoH Accounts 
Officer, 

— 

1 

I 

Senior Cost Accounts 

Officers. 

3 

5 

8 

Cost Accounts Officers 

13 

24 

37 

Assistant Cost Accounts 
Officers. 

13 

13 

26 

Cost Accountants 

26 

15 


(ii) in Schedule III — 


(a) in paragraph 1 , ih sub-paragraph ( 1 ) relating to the post of Chief 
Cost Accounts Officer, in entry (ii) In the second column, for the 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 197 J /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4387 


words “ten years" and "eight years”, the words “fifteen years" and 
"ten years" shall respectively be substituted; 

(b) After paragraph 1, the following Note shall be inserted, namely: — 

"Note, — The qualifications menticjned above will be relaxable at Com- 
mission’s discretion in the case of candidates otherwise well- 
qualified,”; 

(c) in paragraph 3, — 

(1) for the figures “45” against the post of Chief Cost Accounts Officer, 

the figures "50” shall be substituted; 

(2) for the words “specified categories”, the words “specified categories 

of persons” shall toe substituted; 

(3) for the words “permanent Central|State Government servants”, the 
words “Government servants” shall be substituted. 

[No. A. 12018/1/71-E.I (A) .] 

H. K. NARULA, Under Secy. 

fww WKVm 
«CT ftprin 

R'l 1 7 ^5TTf, 1971 

wto 313 5 — Tp^qfd, RfrurR % 3 09 % 5RT STTff 

srfwTf «fR tr ffrfrRT to mircRt Tr setht ttt 

TptT (31# wlT TTT ^ UTT) fwi, 1961 if wk HP? Rsfmfi 

TiTT % fvPT ffihTT ITfi^STTT WTIT f , WfcT : — 

1. (1) fTTifr TT fiTT TTTT T^TI JN ( '»Tcff WtT TT ?IR) 

frafrsrfi 19 71 ?>»rr 1 

( 2 ) 4 3 ST^ITFI 4 ft JT^vT §PT I 

2 . sparer (vRffsift: *ffi stf) 1 9 6 1 *r 

h ‘Tc-TT Nifr $ Tft NpTtof EftT =11% % W-?TTT 

wrrwnft % ftp^rfcrfatr PTTrfr Tf^Trf'ur airWt, sr«rfa : — 


N«ft 




Ml 

i 


1 

tt-pst titt Spar wftRrRV 

4 . 

1 

1 

Hnur spar srfwrfr 

3 

5 

8 

NUTT %NT STfSPEPCt 

13 

24 

37 

TUPT epffT trfUTTfl 

13 

13 

26 

qr¥tr ?wr tpt 

26 

15 

41 



4388 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II- 


(ii) ser-tT 3 4— 

(t) ITT 1 *T, FEET §931 % TS 4 Elfad TT-tU 

(i) ir srfafe (ii) *r ^ 4 tt’ %s 

SFU % f4h 3F7T: 'TsT? *4’ 4R ‘TT M’ TfTTTTf'TT 

fot[ ; 

(<i) 4u l % w^et, fc^ET 5Ed:«rrf4r fw 3rnj*rr, 

sEgfa :— 

«f cq^T — g^T trfsRI ^EEt 5FEU ^Erarf^rf SSIT *f *rrcr>T 

% fartspFjRn: M«m ^rr *4*41 ; ” 

(*T) TET 3 4 — 

(1) *m 5 wr *r^r srftnrrrct % ‘45’% faq; tr^t 

‘so’ srfirFMTPnr f4rr ; 

( 2 ) ‘faftiw 5Dnr' nF4t ^ fair ‘fafafw snufl % wt^rt' w 

srfET'rrPm f%E 3m4 ; 

( 3 ) ‘%44/rrstr etufie % Fqrft 4 eet % f^’ 'ETUErtt 

JUTfir' M«-X srftlUTTpET fti* STTtviT I 

[ 4 o 12018/1/714 mi (q;)] 

?fr fm ettwt, mx 44 1 (f) 1 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 17 th July 1971 

S.O 3136. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of article 148 of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and after consultartion with the Comptroller and Auditor- 
General of India in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the following regulations further to 
amend the Civil Service Regulations, namely:— 

1. (1) These regulations may be called the Civil Service (Third Amendment) 
Regulations, 1971. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Civil Service Regulations, to Article 611, the following note shall be 
added, namely: — 

“Note:— Where the office of the authority competent to sanction pension 
to a retiring Government servant is situated in the circle of an Audit 
Officer other than the Audit Officer who audits the pay and 
allowances of such retiring Government servant immediately before 
his retirement, the latter Audit Officer shall b e the Audit Officer for 
the purposes of this Section." 


[No. 4(3)-E.V(A)/71.1 
S„ S. L. MALHOTRA, Under Secy. 




Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4389 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1971 

S.O. 3137. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 59 of the State 
Bank of India (Subsidiary- Banks) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959), the Central Govern.' 
ment hereby specifies 15th day of July, 1971 ag the date on which the existing 
Bank of Jaipur Limited, shall stand dissolved. 

[No. 3(3)PSB-SB/71.J 

(ifarn fanTBT) 

5 spit, 1971 

<TRo wto 3137. — *rfsrfoW ( 1959 (1959 

w srsffaarr) O-snrr 5 8 3 stth infrotf <frr snrtir tofrr qvkx qd^iirr 15 
1971 4 ?)- ftrfaffiw Trcttf ft? 3 Wfcif*r qtftnfi - 3 V wrci angr 
faRfdfi 5*1 011W 1 

[Bo 3(3) tto^ 0 tVo-4JRotY 0 /7l] 
tfr° fco for, *upc *rfafir 1 


New Delhi, the 24 th July 1971 

S.O. 3138. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (ii) of clause (f) 
of sub-section (1) of Section 9 of the Industrial Development Blank of India Act, 
1964 (18 of 1964), the Central Government hereby notifies the MEDIOBANCA, 
Milano, Italy as a financial institutioh for the purpose of that sub-clause. 

[No. F. 10(38)-Corp/71], 

D. K. SEN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 21 st June 1971 

S.O. 3139. — In exercise of the powers conferred upon it by clause (c) of 
section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act, 1963 (10 of 1963), the 
Central Government hereby nominates Shri A. K. Dutt, Joint Secretary, Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Banking) as a director of the Agricultural Refinance 
Corporation vice Shri K. Ramamurthy. 

[No. F. 14/9/71-ACI.l 
L. D. KATARIA, Dy. Secy. 

(tfefRT ftOTRl) 
fit 21 3JR-, 1971 

t^Tosfto 3139. — flfsrqrrf^T fafi*T 1963 ( 1 963 TT SRfit) "Ft STITT 

10^ fiGy (Y) % JTTf 5TRT fifi tPTRT TTfi gn, TJtPl TOR, iftIRr sft T[ ° %o 

RTfifT ffiTT RsTIrET (tffifiT ffiRRl) TTRT^T % BTET 7T ffa JfifW 

ffitTO fiTftPfi fiTtrfr | I 

[Ro l^o 14/9/71-t[o tfto I] 
t^fo tto fiiHlfTTTT,, '34' I' 



(Department of B anking ) 

New Delhi, July 1971 

S. O. 3140, — Statement, of the Affairs of the Resort Bank of India, as on the 9th July, 1971 

Banking Department 

LlAB ELITES Rs. ASSETS 


4 >. 


UJ 

\o 

o 


Rs. 


Capital paid Up 

Reserve Ftrnd ........ 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . 

N ational Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


Deposits: — 


(a) Government 

(I) Central Government .... 

(n) State Governments .... 

(b) Banks 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks . 

(li) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 

(iii) Non-Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 

(iv) Other Banks ...... 


5,00,00,000 Notes 16,35^95=°°° 

Rupee Coin 4,28,000 

150.00. 00.000 Small Coin . • 3,69,000 

Bills P’lrchased and Discounted: — 

190.00. 00^500 (a) Internal •• . ■ 9 ,i 6,94 >o°° 

(b) External 

39.00900.000 (c) Government Treasury Bills 25,65,31,000 

Balances Held Abroad* ....... 1 09,37,39,000 

Investment*** . . . . ■ . . . 224,60,58,000 

Loans and Advances to : — 

135,00,00,000 (i) Central Government 

(ii) State Governments @ iqi ,73 >66,000 

Loans and Advances to : — 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks} . . . 247^2^0,000 

(ii) State Co-operative Banks}} .... I97yt5>95=°°° 

54185.30.000 (iii) Others 4,88,74,000 

4.03.71 .000 Loans, Advances and I nvestm ents from N ational Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Ford 

(a) Loans and Advances to: — 

202^51,39,000 (i) state Governments 4 3 j° 3>57> 000 

11.57.42.000 (ii) State Co-operative Banks .... 23,95,33,000 

81.17.000 (iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks 

30.21.000 (b) Investment in Central E^nd Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and advances from National Agriculural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. ..... ■ 10,14,98,000 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II 


(c) Others 148,30,42,000 Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks, Loans, 1 

Advances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations) Fund. ..... 13,21,93,000 

Bills Payable ........ 48,09,82,000 (a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 55,04,21,000 

(b) Investment in bonds /debentures issued by the Develop- 
ment Bank ........ 

Other Liabilities 152,02,76,000 Other Assets 59,42,99,000 


Rupees .... 1141,02,20,000 Rupees . . . 1141,02,20,000 


♦ Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities. 

♦♦Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term Opera- 
tions) Fund. 

@Exduding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary overdrafts to State 
Governments. 

f Includes Rs. 157,91,00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section i?(4)(c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
ft Excl tiling Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation) Fund. 

Dated the 14th day of July, 1971. S. Jagan nathan. 

Governor. 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4391 



An Account pursuant to 


the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 9 th day of July 197*- 


Issue Department 


LIABILITIES 


Notes held in the Banking Department. 
Notes in circulation 


TotalNotes issued 


ASSETS 


i6 ; 35 5 95,occ 

4475,06584,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : — 

(a) Held in India 

(b) Held outside India . 


182,53, 11,000 


4491,42,79,000 Foreign Securities 


253,42,00,000 


Total 


Rupee Coin . • • , . ■ 

Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other com- 
mercial paper .... 


435,95,11,000 

37,53,13,000 
4017 , 94 , 55 , 0 °° 


Total Liabilities . 


449142,79^0° 


Total Assets 


449142,75,000 


4392 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30/ 1893 [Part II 



(ffcn firan) 


is i97i 


?fl> 3140. — 9 ^srrt 1971 

3Tf ^ 5tER % fMl MtuT% 4TT+Tm fddT'd 




FTT 



ETT 

g+df 'ETt 

O Cv 

5,00,00,000 

TR . 


16,35,95,000 

girfggMg 

150,00,00,000 

P'W g>T Idt^T 


4,2 8,00 0 



sterfE^pr 

• 

3,5 9,00 0 

<p-dW 





(<ld+r<dld fwij) frftr 

190,00,00,000 

<3 Old gk ng Mr: — 





( 3 ;) . 

, 

9,16,94,000 

(f^O+i'ii) Mg 

39,00,00,000 

(g) M5TF 


, . 



(*l) TlTTUydMT Ml 

• 

25,65,31,000 

tt^ei srrarFFP 


Pi 3 *11 *i <-<31 g«T d'OlOl* 

• 

109,31,39,000 

(Cm^TTl-f f^nrr) Mg 

135,00,00,000 

Mhr** 

. 

224,60,58,000 

xmufaiili : — 


?fk ^rrknr: — 



(ip) fR'TRf 


(i) 

* 


(i) ^kirOTi: 

54,85,30,000 

(ii) TP?? «<AdU 3ft@ . 


101,73,66,000 

(ii) TrHJ 

4,03,71,000 




(g) 3T> 

. 

(i) ^■Hijw'd «ur«RH grftTt ] 


247,92,80,000 

(i) gM Muri fr 

202,01,39,000 

(ii) ttw d^+kr 

* 

197,45,95,000 

(ii) sFRjMa eI'jm tis^ 1 0 

1 1,57,42,000 

(iii) fgfr 


4,88,74,000 


^r (^twnrm fw^t) Mg % 


^r, gfinnik Mrt 


Sf 

8 


OJ 

VO 


:■ 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 




^Ttfnr' 


^rrfewt 


(iii) HTfifto trt ns*r<t #r 

(iv) tr fsp 

(*r) ^rt 
to ftor 


sft todto 


(^) ^r ?fk stftor: — 

8 1,17,000 (i) TT^T *K+Rito 

30,21,000 (ii) TTTdT *R+RJ toflto 
(iii) %?jrPT 4'Pi tt 

148.30.42.000 (^) tosto tot % ftotof if toto . 

'■o^ ftfr^r (fto-O+Rr) fato 

48 . 09 . 82.000 *rfto xr^j w to sgTir sftr ?rftor 

utoto totorto (totoRftoftoTrt) Mr 

% ^7T, ilfvo T\t fato" 

152,02,76,000 (^) TtoW to to to toto . 

(*?) ftoro to stct tot ftor rpr gt to/ 

(«to Cf Jr Rto 

« r 9 =M R-d A| i 


42,03,57,000 

23.95.33.000 

10.14.98.000 

13.21.93.000 


55,04,21,000 


59,42,99,000 


1141,02,20,000 


1141,02,20,000 


totor, srrrfto T^toRirmtoR totoftot snifto 1 1 

■■►*CT^>r (<OtoT to tot) ftor to -cnto tolfto (totorto ftorto) ftofto % to? tofato snfto Tfff i 

@TTE=to fto^r (totortoftornt) fafg-% wr ^rto srfto totor Tff f, <rfj <ur +r*ri % zmmt torfERtotof 1 
ffto# tosur? item tofto toaRT 17 ( 4 ) (*t) totto torto farter totoftoto 157 , 91 , 00 , 000 /- 

w yirfod 1 1 

?to ^«t (totorto foto) to -tor-T fto^rl' tofr+Rr) fto to tom toto 1 


dRId 1 4 1 1, 1971 


tRio ^wim, 

wto 1 


394 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRA 1 


■faspr tw gre ifan trf&fhw, 1 934 % % zgm i 1971^9 arete £ %t ^ 

%% fteiFT 



f%WT TW |CT 16,35,95,0 00 gft rT feFFT %f\X ffteff :- 

g ^^ FT F Tt? 4475,06,84,000 (^) 9mxTTfwr|?TT 182,53,11,000 

grfrf^trJTtr spS ?fte 4491,42,79,000 (^) ^ 50^ T^TT |?1T 

tffavfaoi' 253,42,00,000 



an te^pr 

MKd y «?m 9T ufd'jJd^T 


435,95,11,000 

37,53,13,000 

4017,94,55,000 


fatf sflr 

dTPl'*! T3 1 




4491 , 42 , 79,000 


=P?T SlfTcPTT 4491,42,79,000 


o spFgrgg, 

U'l’I'Z I 


gifrer i4^nt 1971 


[#o ^ 503 ( 3 )-^® # 0 / 71 ] 


3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4395 


New Delhi, the 2 nd August 1971 

S. O, 3141. — Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 23rd July 1971- 

Banking Department 

LIABILITIES Rs. ASSETS Rs * 


Capital Paid Up 5,00,00,000 Notes 29>5 2 ,55,£'°° 

Rupee Coin 2,98,00a 

Reserve Fund ........ 150,00,00,000 Small Coin 3,83, 000 

Bills purchased and Discounted: — 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 190,00,00,000 (a) Internal 8,53,30,000 

(b) External 

National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation) Fund . . 39,00,00,00c (c) Government Treasury Bills .... 35,69,08,000 

Balances Held Abroad* ....... !49>23>7i,ooo 

Investments** ........ 

Loans and Advances to : — 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . 135,00,00,000 (i) Central Government ..... 

(ii) State Governments^ ..... 126,02,49,000 

Deposits : — Loans and Advances to : — 

(a) Government (i) Scheduled Commercial Banks| . . . 159,38,70,000 

(i) Central Government 55,85,18,000 (ii) State Co-operative Banks-ft . . • i97,i5,57,°°o 

(ii) State Governments 4.13,08,00c (iii) Others . 4,64,99,000 

Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agri- 
cultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 

(b) Banks (a) Loans and Advances to : — 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks . . . 220,95,13,000 (i) State Governments 42,03,55,000 

(ii) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . . . 11,99,63,000 (22) State Co-operative Banks .... 23,73,29,000 

(iii) Noti-Sched uled State Co-operative Banks . . 82,17,00c (iii) Central Land Mortgage Banks ... 

(iv) Other Banks ....... 34,129000 (b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Batik Debentures 

Loans and Advances from N ational Agricolt ural Credit 

(c) Others 155,31,79,000 (Stabilisation) Fund 10,14,98,000 


4396 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 . 1893 lPart II- 



Loans and Advances to State Co-operative Banks Loans, Ad- 

Mis payable , i . 46,12, 74,000^ vances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations) Fund ..... 

(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . 

Other liabilities 151,01,95,000 (b) Investment in bonds debentures issued by the Develop- 

ment Bank ........ 

Other Assets ........ 

Rupees 1165,54,79,000] Rupees 1165,54,79,000 

♦Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities. 

♦♦Excluding Investments frcm the Nationals Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations) Fund. [ 

©Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund, but including temporary' overdrafts to State 1 
~ Governments. 

•(■Includes Rs. n 1,3 r, 00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section I7(4)(c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

t|Exchiding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabi- 
lisation) Fund. 

S. JagankatH’k, 

Dated the 28th day of July, 1971. Governor. 


t5,05=37,oco 

55.04.21.000 

43.28.85.000 


Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4397 



An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 23rd dty of July, 1971, 

Issue Defaktment 


LIABILITIES 

Rs. 

Rs. 

ASSETS 

Rs. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Department 

Notes in drcalation .... 

• 29,52,55,000 

• 4347)°7i 8 9rf»o 


Gold Coin and Bullion: — 

(a) Held in India .... 

(b) Held outside India . . . . , 

182,53,11,000 


Total Notes issued .... 

> 

4376,60*44,000 

Foreign Securities .... 

223,42,00,000 





Total 


4c55955i 1,000 




Rupee Coin ..... 

Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other commer- 
cial paper 


42,71,86,000 

3927,93,47,000 

Total Liabilities . 

• 

4376560,44,000 

Total Assets . 


43 76,6044,000 


S. J agannatha n 9 

Dated the 28th day of J uly, 1971, Governor. 


[No. F. 3 ( 3 )— BC/ 7 1 ,] 
K. YESURATNAM, Under Secy. 

CORRIGENDUM 

In the statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India Banking and Issue 
Departments as on 30th April 1971 published at page 3152 — 3154 of Part II Section 
3(ii) of the Gazette of India issue dated 5th June 1971 the figures against the head 
“Loans and Advances to (ii) State Governments” appearing on the Assets side of 
the Statement of Banking Department should bp, read as Rs. 3,85,23,34,000 instead 
of Bs. 6,85,23,34,000, In an account pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Act 1934 
for the week ended 30th day of April 1971, Issue Department the total assets on 
the assets side should he read as Rs. 43,35,09,84,000 instead pf Rs, 43, 34,09, 84, QQQ, 


4398 THE GAZETTE OF .INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Pa*t II- 



if fssrffr, 2 FEET, 1971 

3141. — 23 FFrf 1971 Ft fTFF FF 3111) ff^T % FfFF RETIE % +RFHTT FT flFEE 


tfc 


s 




NlfWFi' 


<0 Cs * 

5,00,00,000 

FtZ .... 

29,52,55,000 

^mferar Erfsr 

150,00,00,000 

ETF FT EtFFT 

2,98,000 

r -. r' 


wki ETFFT . . 

3,83,000 

EFFrFFR'FET 


<s<k ?nT ffttf if Rf : — . 

. 

(fIiFTHR fFTT'l ) Erfa 

. 190,00,00,000 



ZTfEt ftfE FEET 


(F) %3fr 

8,53,30,000 

(EfCNrh) Erfn 

. 39,00,00,000 

(*r) fFF9fr 

. . . 



(e) TR+KT WIT fFF 

35,69,08,000 

r\ ^ \r 




U^N Ti’l 


TFFFt E 'WT |FT FFRT * 

149,23,71,000 

(^HTiTi^fwE) Eri% . 

. 1 35,00,00,000 

Erf** 

265,97,34,000 

FIT ZrERT : — 


■FTT 5TE: fEet : — 


(f) EEFRT 


(i) FREnRFTCFt 


(i) %^et*rfr: 

55,85,18,000 

(ii) TRFETFlfiFtt • 

126,02,49,000 

(ii) ETWTR+K 

4,13,08,000 



{^•) If 


^FFtrsrftrF : — 


(i) sehtEkt ^rrfEr^T ff 

. 220,95,13,000 

(i) E^fFF 3 1 ERF FFTFtfj . 

159,38,70,000 

(lj) SRljfFF ERF S^FRf #F . 

11,99,63,000 

(ii) TRF EfFITt FFt ft@ 

197,15,57,000 



( u i) pffFT 

4,64,99,000 


: - 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971/SRAVANA 30. 1893 






{iii) fa tr wprcr fa 
(iv) srarfa , . '[] . 

(»r) spt . 

fa ffa 

?J^T fad 1 if . 


Ijfa 


w?r 


Tps^faffa ^yr (Trfaufw 
^r, MM Vfa fafar 
M) ^sfaMM : — 

8 1,17,000 [ (i) TT^f . . . 42,03,55,000 

34,12,000 (ii) TT^T^T.'lfrfaTfa . . 23,73,29,000 

(iii) MMi Mfagq; far M . 

155.31.79.000 (^) fafa fa % ffafai V fafa 10,14,98,000 

usdfa (MM ^t«t) MV V Mr MM 

46.12.74.000 TT53T 44’^<+»l <i fa fa Mk MM . 15,05,37,000 

fafa MfaPr+' ^(fafaidfa fMV V 

151,01,95,000 ^MMMrfafar 

(w) MlTO fa fa famVk ^Tf^TFr . 55,04,21,000 

(W) fWT¥ fa SRI ^TTT Ffa OTT far/ffafa! V ffaiT 

^ MMM . . 43,28,85,000 


fa 1165,54,79,000 fa 1165,54,7 9,000 

* ^nfa, snMfa Vfa !i?r#t MMffai MM I i 

o, _ 

** ffaTU'r ( fafanfa ffaM) MV Mr '•‘ifara Mfaffa^rpr (qifaifan ffai’i) MV V V ffa ^ fVM MM fa 1 1 
f ufaq fa ^rfafawfa ffafa ) MV V spfrr ^yr Mr MM MM fa f | , faf « <*i 0‘ % =h^i 41 farfm MM 1 1 
tf ffaifa 51TO Mfal MVffal fa 9TTT 17(4) fa %Mfaird^Rd fa fa fa ifa fMf MM ffa M 111,31,00,000/- 
^ fa MM | i 

@ fafafa^ (difafa iMw ) MV fa <rfa fa ( fa’CHujj ) MV Vjtm Vk MM MM fat i 

fate : 2 8^rfa 1971 ! f I F ? WT ( WR I 


J400 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II- 


for* srns sfy fern , i 934 % 5 EHr¥^%^TTf 19719 ^ 23 tn^^*mrergi* 3 «cn^%f%tr 3 raT 

?5T f%TOT 

<a 



¥19 

f*T9 

srfeurt 

¥77 

¥79 

tkFrkwur^TtfTT 


lff% 99f%999 5rh:3rf%TO 

v; 

; — 


•fte 

29,52,55,000 


(9i) 9TK11 % TOT |5TT 

182,53,1 1,000 


y-4'jH % Hid 

4347,07,89,000 


(if) ^UTO % 971T9 TOT 






|9TT 

* t . 




4376,60,44,000 

f%%7lt 9f%3Tf%97 

c\ 

223,42,00,000 


^IlM H>V\ *M£ 









• . , 

405,95,1 1,000 




¥1% 99 f%999 

* t » 

42,71,86,000 




TO TOTK 9% ¥197 yfdFTdq? 

3927,93,47,000 




%3Tt f%f%TO fTO' (ffk 5^1% 9lf%*!j qg- 

. • 

915T ^dlO, 


4376,60,44,000 


9i5i snfoaqt 

"O 

4376,60,44,000 


cTKNt: 28 STOTf 1971 1^0 W!fT, 9TOT t 

[ij° t^o 3 ( 3 )-^to ?rr 0 / 71 ] 
%° 9%k'?1H', srrirf^ i 


sifero 

WTTrT % TT519sr % g^T 1971 %1791%17T9 II, ^ 3 (ii) % 9<3 3152-3154 ^T9nf%d f%¥=f t% TOS ^'f%91 %#%¥ 5Tk ^ f%^TT*ff 
%^k^rr% 30 tito, 1971 %f9wr % f%9Fi%9?fro ftwr %irrfkm^ q^r ?rk?i{im — (ii) tew to99tt 

qfl” sfpl % TOT% f^T 9% ^ 6 , 85,23, 34, 000% 9¥% ¥0 3,85,23,34,000 9% TO* | f¥?% %91 51791 ?lWWT, 1934 % ^9^9 

Jr #, 1971 %r 30 rrrfk' %r ttoto w % f%tr, 9 % ssr f^fim % % ?rrfeki sn% 95 T Jr 999 ^t r fmo r %i 

1 043,34,09,84,000 % 99% 9 o 43,3 5,09,84, 000 9^1 5TT^ ( 


CO 


8 


:. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SJRAVANA 30, 1893 4401 





4402 THE GAZETTE fc)F INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1S93 [Part Iv — 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance^ 

Income-tax 

New Delhi, the 29th May 1971 

S.O. 8142. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (iii) of clause 
44) of Section 2 of the Income tax Act, 1901 (43 of 1961), the Central Govern- 
lent hereby authorises: — 

1. Shri H. S. Nanda, who is Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to 
Exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. The appointment of Shri B. K. Ujwal made in Notification No, 64 (F. No. 16/ 
1 ig/69-ITCC) dated 7th June, 1969 is hereby cancelled. 

3. This notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[No. 101 (F. No. 404/20/71-ITCC).] 
R. D. SAXENA, Dy. Secy. 


(t rsTFar sftr fervrr*T) 

WPWT 

29 *r£ 1 97 lj 

3 142. — wfaPwr, 1061 ( 1961 VT 43) *FV firm 2 % SPhT 

(44) tjw* (iii) grra tw vrPurTf m spik rai sflr 

tUT 0 iTffo ^ isft TOT *61 TPifqfafT HTT HfaPm % HlftT 

trfafrrPt qfr vrtwrf *Fr TrtT «pxt % ftrq srifafs TTfft $ i 

2 . H° 64(<TT°R<> 1 6/l 1 8/ 69-Hlf 7-6-1969 

Jf «ft"4Yo %0 Ti^ffnTprd »ffY tSTRfr I I 

3 . h* irfk^^Tr 57 yd 1 tttt i 

[Tto i6i O ft o h° 404 / 20 / 71 — Hrfo ^y 0 tfto tfv*)] 
hixo ^0 hh?rt, ht rPht i 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 24 th June 1971 

S.O. 3143.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (iii) of clause 
*4) of section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government 
ereby authorises: — 

, *■ Shri O. P. Daga who is Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to exer- 
lse tho powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2, This hotiflcation shall come intQ force with immediate effect. 


[No. 200/F. No. 404/26/71-ITCC.] 




^ec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4403 


(TOfTR RtRT faPTin) 

fcvvfr, 24 ^T, 1971 

3143 . — street RfafERR, i96i ( 1 96 1 ft 43 ) fR ritt 2 % 

TJT ( 44 ) % TTTTT (iii) 5 PI TTfT sifVlRl FIT FRET FITT J7, %RTET REFIT Nl 
jffo tfto TiTT <Ft, 5ft FE^RT REFIT % TTRqfRR t, RFff STfaffiRR % 

RTjtfi *FT F'REl RfRFTTTt FT UlfFffRf FT eRRT FET % fRR STlfa'fET FeRR | | 

2. Tf Slftr^T'TT |W TFR |Eft I 

[ffo 200 (TITo Ho 404/26/7 l-RT^o RRo Rfo Rt o ) ] 

Nero Delhi, the 9th July 1971 

S.O. 3144. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-clause (iii) of Clause 
; {44) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)', the Central Govern- 
ment hereby authorises Shri Lala Tripti Prasad Nandy who is a Gazetted Officer 
of the West Bengal Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer 
.under the said Act. 

2. This Notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[No. 214(F. No. 404/156/70-ITCO.J 

T^ 9 RRlt, 1971 

ItRo 3144. — STREET RfRfTRR, 1961 ( 1 96 1 FT 43) F?t RIE 2 % 5P3 

( 44 ) % (iii) jttt sum wf^Fcnft ft stREt fitR §*t, fcytR refit sft rtwt ^ far 

RETT TTfr -Ft, sft TfvRjfr TOTE RTFTT % TTWTfffR RffTTlfr TFT RfaffETR % wRET 
WJ FTJrft RfERT R HR JlfTTfif FT TRET FITT % fErR RdTaTTT TlfRfd FETT | I 

2. R| Rftr^RRr rJTET RFR REfT I 

[R° 214 (H7f °Tf<>404/l56/70 o orRotiRo)] 

New Delhi, the 14th. July 1971 

S.O. 3145. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (iii) of clause (44) 
of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government 

hereby authorises Shri S. N. Chaturvedi who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer uVider the said Act. 

2. This notification supersedes notification No. 23 (F, No. 16/9/68-ITB) dated 
26th March, 1968 and shall come into force on 15th July, 1971. 

[No. 220 (F. No. 404/131/71-STCO.J 
fff (R^Ri. 1 4 19 71 

tlR° Ftto 3 14 5. — REEFT STfijfTRR , 1961 ( 1 9 6 1 FT 43) fReTTE 2 % 
Et j 3 (-14) % R'ESW ( ) (THT FlfFclRR FIT WET ®FTff gir, RnfEr RTFTIT «ft RR opr^- o 
FT, 5ft %RftR REFIT % TERpTfacT SlftTRTTt TFT RfaffiRR % srffRff FIT 

arqrfr RfspFrCt <f! rEretI ft rrEt fiet $fnR srrfafff feeR| i 



4404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part If— 


2. *1? 23 (>ETo R o 1 6/&/6E 5 Vf sft) 2E-3-1968 

jfft ls^rynt 1971 rrtt $WY i 

[R °220 (iffoR 0 404/l3l/71 Wfo iftotfVo )] 

S.Q, 3146, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (iii) of clause 
(44) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shrl S, B. Saxena, who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. This notification shall come into force on 26th July, 1971. 

[No. 218 (F. No. 404/131/71-ITCC], 

S. K. LALL, Dy. Secy 

HR 0 W>o 3146. — NTWT RfaftqR, 1961 ( 1961 IT 43) tfV RTTr 2% 
tja* (44) % TT'W'iy (lii) fjTTT SRW SPftR %RTfR RT1RT 

nV tT^o sfVo ri#rt sjrt, aft rtttt % uanifaff trftm 'V rrr 5rfsrfT*t*r 
V STtflR W.x T't SiftfBTi TT JPI.R «TUt % fr.T STlfafR | I 

2 . JT 5 srftrg;^! 2 6 ^nf, 1971 tt rrtt 1 

[r° 218(111110 404/l3l/71 tfl’o if.c ^fto ) J 

ITRo %o RTR, RR Rf%R r 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 
Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 19th June 1971 

S.O. 3147.— -In partial modification of Board’s Notification No. 87 dated 29th 
May, 1970 and in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
121 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby directs that the Commissioners of Income-tax will not and the Additional 
Commissioners of Income-tax will perform the fuctions specified in the Annexure. 

This notification shall take effect from 21st June, 1971, 

Annexure 


Statutory Technical Functions: 

1. Revisionary powers under sections 263 and 204 of the Income-tax Act, 

1961 (not under Sections 33A and 33B of the Income-tax Act, 1922). 

2. Jurisdiction proposals and other matters pertaining to Appellate Assistant 

Commissioners. 

3. All work relating to second appeals before the Income-tax Appellate 

Tribunal, references and writ petitions before High Courts and Sup- 
reme Court and any other proceedings before these authorities except 
prosecution proceedings and tax recovery proceedings. 

4. Matters pertaining to Income-tax Officers (Judicial), Authorised Repre- 

sentatives and Standing Counsel. 

B. All work relating to internal and revenue audit in the Income-tax De- 
partment and matters pertaining to Inspecting Assistant Commis- 
sioners of Income-tax (Audit) and Chief Auditors. 

[No. 199 (F. No. 187/8/71-IT(AI)]. 

B. MADHAVAN, Under Secy. 




Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4405 : 


19 5R 1971 

tjtfo wto 3147 sfjt [srfsrqW Ro 87 dTRlf 2E- E- 7 { ^ V H *F 

RRTRKOT^ *ffa wfaf?,l,R, l£tl (iffl^T 43 ) tfl STRT 121 JpV ^STRl 
(l) OT TTrf infwm *PT TRIt §tt ( 3U1ST-TR Rli tr^iyl fjRR 

tcTl f fw> RRT3FR F fafafecS fT^Tf *T qTRR UPTRR ? f t fVT 

tT9T 5TPT-TT RTTUT spTT I 

T? 5rfafnSTf 21-6-71 3f STTFtV 5>ft I 

3TTR?*I 

TOW SkR 

1. WTJRR RfafrriR, 1961 "Ft STRT 263 tfk 264 % msfto (*U*.*X 

wfafaRR, 1922 ?pt 8TRT 33R w’lT 35 ^ '? wfW h^f) ViftcPlT I 

2. Rf«RdfTdT SRtn'RTrr 5)*,T Rfjr.Jr FTRrT (*Tv) V U J f l.5t 

tur rtr% 1 

3. srm-JFT ufak.Tu ( 5 ,<fiR) % erst fi^rV sdfsfr u wiPur 7 vfi q ur r 

!flT ’rTiTvT % 34“ 5.T fruil u‘l f J ' f 1 j W 1 *T 'U TiftJ- 

RTfUrt % RFW, WpR^^PT *mwTf?Tt SHT qR aTjyft qJqkTfl/EL % fintr SpR 

TlTTlflTf I 

4 . rtoir siferq.ifr (RifkT ), snfa$Tf nfi f? feuf sta m f q Rrr 

tf +4 +-<tf f?ST5T RDi?! I 

5 . RPITR fafRHT Jr REdfuF 5TR R^RA RhTOTi % 515EST F Fvfr qm 

-t>t sntpn ftf sr * 1.13 WR? (vi sr ) tfA ijr tar e fir# i 

[r° 199(t:ToHo 187 / 9 / 71 -^ 1 ^ 0 ^ 0(^0 5(7(0 )] 

if to TTT mn, 5UR rTrt I 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

cooperation 

(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1971 

S.O. 3148. — The following draft of certain amendments to the Bristles Grading 
and Marking Rules, 1969, which the Central Government propose to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), is published as required by the 
said section for the information of the persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the draft would be taken into consideration on or 
after the 20th August, 1971. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera- 
tion by the Central Government. 





44 o6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


Draft Amendments 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Bristles Grading and Marking (Amend- 
ment) Rules, 1971. 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 

2. In the foot notes to Schedules I to IV of the Bristles Grading and Marking 
Rules, 1969 (hereinafter called the said rules,) — 

(a) in item (ii), for the figures and letters “57 mm”, the figures and 

letters “64 mm" shall be substituted: 

(b) in item (iii) for the words, figures and letters “for grade 51 mm’* 

the words, figures and letters “for grades 57 mm and 51 mm” shall 
be substituted. 

3. In the foot notes to Schedules I to VI of the said rules, the following item 
.shall be added, namely: — 

“(V) The following tolorance limits in respect of types shall be 
permitted : — 


Maximum percentage of bristles of 
Grade designation the next lower type according to 

stiffness to be tolerated 


114 mm (4 J") and above. . 

»3 mm (3i*) and upto and including to8 mm (4 i") 
-44 mm (1 f") and upto and including 76 mm (3")- 


35 

40 

45 


4. In Schedule X of the said rules, in item 3, — 

(a) in sub-item (ii), for the expression “grade designations 95 mm to 

57 mm (31" to 21")”, the expression “grade designations 95 mm to 
64 mm (31" to 21")” shall be substituted: 

(b) in sub-item (iii), for the expression “for grades 51 mm. and 44 mm. 

(2" and 11") ”, the expression “for grades 57 mm and 51 mm 
(21" and 2")” shall be substituted; 

(c) after sub-item (iii), the following sub-item shall be added, namely: — 

“(IV) for grade 44 mm (11") a minimum of 65 per cent of bristles of 
the specified grade designation length (called ‘tops’), the balance 
being made up of the next lower grade lengths and unavoidables.” 

I [No. F. 8-1/67-C&M.] 

omi $f«r, w*rr 

(*rfa f*>TRT) 

ffeft, 5 Wlf, 1971 

t[Ro gfto 3148. — vt TTR y'lfrvT'JT *fh felU, 1969 if vffiTT fUTltlfi 

*6T P-th fey u wrrf, frfa ttn srk ffejf) wfefeu, 

1937 ( 1937 1) ffirr 3 5 nr ustt ufefe fiu ufer srfeife 

5TBTFRT ^T<r ^ sfeTEHTTT UU ferfer # % fef Terfel 

feu ^ttt | fewr v# srmfer unruu | sfk rTuurnr uuut ; uuft i fw> v-et 

5IWT TT 2 0-8- 1 9 7 1 ^1 UT 7W([ feuT felT ufeu I 

feTrT % T°frf 5TPFT % cil ^ '<fl SUS^T 

UT UBTT JTTVT piffl, TT UmT NffefV I 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4407 - 


FTTPfF TT STTfF 

1 . (1) vrPmPTr m t! tr £ofkrw *rk Pnjpr (^f^fknr) Pm, 1971 

$Ptt 1 

(2) P <J<rcT F^tT ^'Pt 1 

2. tt Fk Pm, 1969 (Pr% sfP sf% qr^^Rr 

Pm t?t fft 5,) fP 1 % 4 tr fP f^Ptft % fit fkFwf f — 

(«p) ft (11) P, "57 Pro Pto" ffP fft FTkf $ mr it "64 Pro Pto” 
fft ctft 5 rerr srPrFnfRT PfP fwP i 

(f) ft (111) P , "51 Pro jfto »>fr % PrP” vt®t, t^f ftttP % wr 
ft “57 Pro pto <fk 51 Pro ppo fPtPT % PPr” f^t.ff; Fk fttu 
fPrftPrt PfP fiPP 1 

3. TFT Pmf Fp 1 F 6 FFT fP F^fapt % FIT femPt P pTRfFpTd FT. 

5prr ftPPtt, mPi : — 

( 4) Pmt % WH P pFFfkfNF F^TFTT F>JpF sPPt : — 


’PPt FfFOTT Fig F^FF % FFFT T 

Ptftff PtPr 

»PPt % <pf TRt 

ft fFfft.f 
fPtff 


114 Pro Pto (4 i") Fk TFp FpPP . . 35 

8 3 Pro Pto ( 3 i” ) Fk FF FT? Fk PrP lOSpTo Pto 

4J" Pt fPfPtf $ i . . . , .a 

44 Pro Pto ( 1 f”) Fp T T7T FT Fk fFFp 76pTo Pto 

( 3”) Ft fPfPrT f 45 


4. FFF fPlPt fP FF^Pl 1 0 P, FT 3 P — 

(T) FFFT(ll)P, "mt FfpFIFt 95 pT° Pto p 5 7 fF«> Pto 
( 3 f" P 2i") FT % FFTF FC "PPt FfFFTF 9 5 fP° Pto P 64'- 
Plo Pto ( 3 f’’ P ii") FT FFcRFlfPr fw FTpFT I 

(tt) ff ft (hi) P “PfpPt 51 fPo Pt° Pk 44 Pr° Pto ( 2 ”Fk: 
3") % PPt, "FT % FTTF FT "Ffppf 5 7 Pto pto pk 5 1 fPo pta, 
( 2 i" Fk 2 ”) % fPP," FT srfpTFTpRT PpFT FTpFT I 




.440 8 THE GA2ETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II— 


(q) 3T-RT (ii) % fTUTfvTpTT ^T-TT aftflT ^ffW, : — 

"(iv) 44 fro ifro (i 314") ntT % f%T Piftfe *r<jft 
% Tf OT-Tt Tf (fall fa V T?T q^T |) ^dfPT 6 5 TffiFRi WfTC 
^ppScR tV HmrifTf % wK srqfi^m *r fa^ppr grrORT srrfarr i* 

[?T° 8— 1 / 6 7-pft ° ^ TTTTo] 


New Delhi the 31st July 1971 

S.O. 3149. — The following draft rules, which the Central Government propose to 
make, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
<Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 (1 of 1937), are published as required by the said 
section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
10th September, 1971. 

An’y objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified, will be considered by the 
Ce'ntral Government. 


DRAFT RULES 

The Safron Grading and Marking Rules. 1971. 

1. Short title and application. — (1) These rules may be called the Saffron, 
'grading and Marking Rules, 1971; 


2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless* the context otherwise requires, 

(a) ‘Agricultural Marketing Adviser’ means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India; 

(b) ‘Schedule’ means a Schedule appended to these rules. 

3. Grade designations. — The Grade designations to indicate the quality of 
saffron shall be as set out in colum’n 2 of Schedule I. 

4. Definition of quality.— The quality of safforn indicated by the respective 
grade designations shall be as set out against each grade designation in columns 

-3 to 6 of Schedule I. 

6. Grade designation marks. — The Grade designation mark shall consist of 
< ’ther:— 

(i) a design incorporating the number of the Certificate of Authorisation, 

the word ‘Agmark’ and the grade approved by the Agricultural Mark- 
eting Adviser, or 

(ii) a label specifying the grade approved by the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser and bearing the design (consisting of an outline map of India 
with the word ‘Agmark’ and the figure of the rising sun with the 

words “Produce of India’ 1 and “'fiTfafa TTPT resembling the o“ne ad 
set out in Schedule II. 

6. Method of marking. — (1) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
affixed to or printed on each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser. 

(2) In addition to the above, the following particulars shall also be clearly and 
-ftidelibly marked on each container, namely: — 

(a) Date of packing in code or plain letters; 

(b) Crap year; and 

(c) Net weight. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4409 


(3) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the prior approval of the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser, mark his private trade mark on a container, in a man- 
ner approved by the said officer, provided that the private trade mark doea not 
represent a quality or grade of saffron different from that indicated by the grade 
designation mark affixed to the container in accordance with these rules. 

7. Method of packing. — (1) Saffron shall be packed in only new and clean tins, 
glass or plastic containers, polythene bags, or any other suitable container. 

(2) The container shall be securely closed and sealed in a manlier approved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser. 

(3) Each container shall contain saffron of one grade designation only. 

8 . Special conditions of authorisation. — In addition to the conditions specified in 
rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the following special con- 
ditions shall be observed by packers to the satisfaction of the Agricultural Market- 
ing Adviser, namely: — 

(1) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing from as 

the Agricultural Marketing Adviser may specify by general or special 
order from time to time. 

(2) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to the Inspecting 

Officer duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this 
behalf as may be necessary for them to discharge tneir duties under 
these rules. 



Schedle I 
(Set rules 3 and 4) 

Grade designations and definitions of quality of saffron produced in India 


SI. 

Grade 

designation 


Special characteristics 

Matter 

Volatile 

Total 
ash % 

Ash insol Aqueous 

in extract 

Total 
Nitrogen 
% by 
weight, 
maximum 

General Characteristics 

N. 

Colour 

Floral Foreign at 103 

waste matter, %by 

content, percent weight, 

per cent, maximum maximum 
maximum 

by 

weight, 

maximum 

HCL% % by 
by weight weight 

maximum 

maxrumum 


1 

2 

3 

4 J 

6 

7 

8 9 

10 

II 


x Special Deep red 

2 Standard Light reddish to bri- 

ght red 


5 o-5 

15 1-0 


14 g-o* 1-5* 55 o* 2* Saffron shall : — 

(a) be the dried full cut 
or broken stigmas of 
the plant botanic ally 
known as Crocus 
Sativus, Linnaeus; (b) 
have the charct eristic 
str ong, arom ati c, 

pleasant and 
slightly iodinated 
smell with bitter and 
slightly pungent taste 
and be free from any 
foreign taste or smell, 
specially the musty smell 


or taste; 


(c) be free from living 
insects, and moulds, 
and shall be practically 
free from dead insects, 
insect fragments and 


rodent contamination 
visible to the naked eye 
(corrected, if necessary, 
for ebnornjal vision) 


4410 the GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 189 j [Part II- 



witn such magmutnutin 
as may be necessary in 
' any particular case, 
and 

(d) not cent ain any 
added foreign colour- 
ing matter. 


Sec. 3 (ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4411 


4412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 197J/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part tl— 


Definitions. — 1. Floral Waste. Yellow filaments, pollens, stamens, part of ovary and 
other parts of the flower of Crocus sativus, Linnaeus. 

2. Foreign, mailer. — Sand, earth, dust, leal, stem, chaff and other vege- 
table matter. 

Note. — *On dry basis, i.e., moisture and volatile matter free basis as calculated 
from Column 6. 

Sulphuric acid di phenyl amino test shall be + tive. Floral waste content 
shall be determined by standard method. 

Schedule II 

(See rule 5) 

Design J'or the grade designation mark. 



Note, — T he Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where com- 
modities are 1 graded for the purpose of export. 


[No. F. 8-2/G8-C&M.] 
K. RAJAN, Under Secy 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1 97 J /SRAVANA 30, 1893 f f 13 

Of ft 1 #, 31 TO# 1071 

vto wto 3149 . — faroftiftrar totot ftmr ft# T-Tfm ttott yft ttoto 

(ntotori sfhr fftsspr ) srftrfrorrT 1937 (1937*13 1 ) ^srm 3 am tottt wftcftf 

TT SPTft *fi Id j^iT # 5 IE*f 1 h 11 t> ■tn) Iw TO7T ^ft^TFrUTF "?T TOfi °h PtcThI 
rft T^RT % f# STOftlrl TTrfl % from d'^JTOT ITTOfTOT ?# OTOTO £ wft 0# 
3TTT fTOTT ft T# | ft TOFT HT^TTT 10-9-1971 #TO TOT% T?*# ftTTOT ftiTO 
TTTrTO I 

TW TO*'T # TOTT #1 faftf# TOfftr % ^ ft# TOftd t # TO# 

TO TOTFT TOTO #T TT TT #7T 7TTOTT TRT ftTOT ftm TROT I 

SfTTTO fTOW 

V5TT # f#pl ftlTOT, 1971 

i . ^ftTT tot #? jrftr : 

(l ) TOT ftmff TT TFT %TO #f!TOTO| #T f#pC faTOT 1971?# I 
(2 ) ^ TOTOT if IRTftr %TO (w TERW ftTTOTOT ) IT TIT # I 

2 . TftTOTO : — TOT ftPHTt if TOT TOF ft TOTTO T TOTOTO TftfsiT T ?T; 

(wr ) "frft ftwr T-TrfiTR'' il, wmr tor or toPt farm totiwit 

| 1 

ftx ) ##T’ % tot frorm % tort to# TOfaror | 1 

3 . wftrsrFT : — tot *fmft# *ft 'jnftrT to# arm n tt ’TpoarT 
# ?# TUT f«F TO[# 1 % TOPTO 2 if TO## & I 

4 . wrft# # qfrTTTT : — ftfror #ft ?rf#m gm to## # 

sfTtftftt T? ft# TOT TOJ# 1 % TORT 3 6 ir T#TO TO# TOfTOSTFT % TO# 

TO## | I 

5 . TO# wfaTOTO ftrgf : — TO# TOfTOJTOT — TO # 

(l ) TOP #T ftTTRT^I flTO- ft# TOfTTOT TOTOT TOT # #OTT, ‘TOTTOlV’ 

tot sfk fTOTTOT mw arm TOrotf# n# ^ irf ?t, to 



4414 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, , 893 [Part II— 


(ii ) FT F% FTTH gTTT OtT fTTTT TTTTTTTT 37TT F^Tffor 

•ruff ftfrfT'5; Tt *rf ft sfk f^i tt <t?rr f^rr^r (ftra^r ftft % 
FTT f^TT TT ^TTTTT’ TFT *flT FTTl ^ ^ TT fTT “ Produce 
of India ” sfrr 'vriTfrr fttf?’ fftt % t%t ff) tt, ^fr w^*fr 
2 % FTTfaT frJTRT if ftfTTT spTTI Tf I 

6. ftlf tf, Tg;% : 

(i ) N^fr ^Photf frf[ fawi titt *ppffft?r ftfr ®r 

ST^ FTfT Ir pSFTTT l^TT TT T?jfo 7TJF1 TFT IT TjfiTT tjfTT I 

( ii ) FFfa r % srfrfFRT, f-iHpTPfT faM^CTf vff iw *fk wfirr 

^T % TFfF TTHTUT TFT TT M^T T?[ 5Frfe( : — 

(% ) Tf%T TT crirtT — FTTpPF FT FTSTTFr 3FTTT if 

(*r) titf! ttt tt; 

(t) T[¥ 'TTT 

(iii ) arfatriT for ftfr frT°R if fr?nfrTT sirt %■ 

TTTTc^ TRcT WftFTTfr 3TTT ^JTffor flfrT % SFJffR TTTFT TFT 
TT TTTTT pFft ^FTTHT f*Tf Tfw FT *#TT TF§ T? TT FTfF 
filfr 5TTTR fT^f fTTTt % T^TTT WIPT TFT TT FTP! TF 

TTfWIT fT^ 3TTT Fl^ftlT %TR Tff TTTfFff FT N°ft if 
f*TF TTlfHJf FT W TTf «FW F TFFT Ft I 

7 . TfrrT nff T5% : — 

( 1 ) ^FR Tt %FF T^ Fk RTF 5 fesTf Tffsf FT RTrfeTT % FTOTT TFTf 
if,T 1 fFfcft?r % ^FTT if FT T-F FFffTFT FTTFTTFTt if TF fw FIT[FT I 

(2 ) 'TWFT TFT fTfa fFTFF TFfl^R 5TTT ^FJTffTT § Wpft if «FF 
STVt JJ3TTT frF j| i I 

(3 ) 5RFF mSTFT TTT if %TFf ^ ^f N^ff JTfWFT %TR : 

8 . STTf^FTT Vf fTiTT 5tn : — FT TFT ! T n flTF 1 T sfk fr^pT fTTT 1 937 % 
4 if TFrt % Ffrftw TTR Tf Pi+^-iHi rigid fqiiiq FTff *RT TFFT fff^r 

fTT^T FFn^TTT % FFTtJTT TT ¥T if «fFFTT ^fTT W*rfT : — 

(l) TTfsifFT faR %TR TT TffSTT *RT^ % SR^T FT^TTT ^FTTf% $f*T l>WH 
TFTr^TTT FFF-FTrT TT FTTFT FT fTTPT KTT^Vr 5TTT Ti^f I 




Sec, 3 (Ji)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: AUGUST 21, 197 1/SKa V ANA 30, 1S93 4415 


(2 ) srrfuw far, yf*r Ptttt Turr^n: am ^ fcTfatT wj 3r ^snrfa- 
W ftrfanr wfirenfwf «trt gfwij vwr V^rr] 3ttt % Pprm 
srcfrr ^r% TPT't sFrtefir % fa^?pr % faq wiwv fff i 




4416 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Past II- 









(Pm 3 


wtr Jr ^ufr q-q-iP-rJl 

yrtr*rw 

SlfaWR 

fayta ptstt 


103 ’ ¥r tt 

Uminfl ’TIT 
% WTK qr 

srftmw ’tRrt- 

cT*T 1 

T»r 5®T (RT 

sRfrpf/ 

srfflw 

ftnrnftq- 
TTpf 5Tf?r- 
yrT’tiftRR 

1 2 

3 4 

5 

6 

i f*m 

*T?Rr RTR 5 

0. 5 

14 


15 1.0 


2 


•/*% ?r 

^T^TTT PTT5T 





§ec. J(n)] the Gazette of India; august ii, iwi/sraVana 30 , 1893 4417 


1 

4 

tfV EfTETEtf 

ett %■ *TTtnr vet % ett % eit % 


ET ete 

m Fieri' wfenu 

ETETT ET 
Hcl E 

r>_»\ 

ETSJTT ET ETSTR ET 

E^fkfE'TE' EE 

ETOTTE EWE 


TE 

ETEHEETE EIWT 

ePtoi eFeette 

r _. . 

^T^T^rT 

EfEEETE 

r- 




ETEWE 


yftuid 



7 

8 

9 

10 

1 1 


8. 0 * 

1.5* 

55.0* 

2 * 

VET — 



(V ) s^TeFt ETT5T if T'tWFT 
ECTSEE fEETEE ETE E 
SET eVe % ETT EE 
TT TEf fafft 5 FT 
tIe 1 

(jj) Feet Ek ??% ?ffg- 
FETE TflTT EWE 
TtiTE TrfTSF EfT 
ETEtstT Et EE Eft 
?mft sfk fTTra'Ir fete 

ST W-FtEE EE ft ETErfT 

ee tt «rrr ft ett tet! i 

(e ) eTFet aftftr ftVr e^e 
ft TFelT jfkft ftfc ft iff 
EfE Jr fEorrf e?e arrft 
(EETErrE ffk % Fee 
ePt sttewet ft eft sfrr 

ETT%) EE ETET E% 

( #ET FeTTI EFTE foTEE 

ft Err?Trr?t) 5 irTfrftT 

UT If ET Eftftf, ETlT 

ETET Ek f ETET snfoRf % 
E^EE ft EET ftftf | 
(e) Ttf fEEEftE TEE 
eete Feet |et e ft 1 



4418 tHe ODETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 2 i. 1971/SRAVANA 36, 1693 [Paw ll— 


: — 1 . «T«<T : — ufaw SZTSTO fawHTCT J®T % ft^T ^ RTHT 

*r<J¥T?m *TFT sflT m «TFT I 

2. fwmcfa qTf4 : — tar, fafr, tjjsr, qrfr, tjsh, vprr «ftr m 
mrfcT qrr4 I 

jtV: — wt^WT^rnr 6*f»r^TT% 

(Tftrf w ijPrr i 

5®T m TRT fafa 5TO ^IWTfCT ^ft I 


-2 

(fm 5 sfeT ) 

sp>ft ^f'fTcTFT fTf TT f%5IT^T 



^tett if ^r?T *TF3*tf m Prrra % spft^FT % f%q fr^r wr 

T’UTT TT Tfiru TV? %T<T W? T$f I 


[To 8-2/68-^ftr ffmT] 

fTo TTSf^; ^FTT ) 





