REGISTERED No. D , 222 

DENTRAL SECRETARIAT LIBRA 

Gomory of India . 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITI 


No. 7 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


NOTICE 
Tho undermentioned Gazottos of India Extraordinary pero publighed upto the 7th 
February 1983 : 


LO 
No . 


No. and dato : 


Logued by 


Subject 


20 


8 . R . O . 242, dated the 
2nd Fobruary 1969 . 


Mlolatry of Amendment made in the Oilcakes 
Food and Agri- (Romoval of Control) Ordor 1952 . 
culturo . 


80 


8 . R . O . 249 , dated tho | Election Com - | Election Petition No. 112 of 1062 
2nd February 1983, mission , India 

and 
Election Case No. 2 of 1962. 


Ditto 


Election Petition Norhof 1952. 


S . R . O . 244 , dated the 

2nd Fobruary 1963. 
S . R . O . 245 , datod the 
3rd February 1953. 


| 31 | 


Ditto 


Eloction Petition No . 12 of 1952 . 


S . R . O , 246 , dated the 
3rd February 1963, 


Ditto 


Election Petition No. 254 of 1082 . 


.32 


$ . R . O , 217 , dated the 
4th February 1953. 


Ditto 


Publication of ligt of valid nomina 
tion for tho election of the llouge of 
Poople fron Muzaffarpur North 
Weat Constituency . 


83 | S . R . O . 377, datod tlio 

6th February 1953. 


Ministry of Certain Amencunents mado in the 
Food and Agri- 1 S . R . O . 639, datod tlo Oth MAY 
oulturo . 

· 1951 and S . R . O . 1107 , datod the 
21gt July 1951, 


S . R . O , 278 , dated the 
5th Fobruary 1953, 


Ditto . 


Central Government pacand th , Rajas 
than Gram and Grain produots 
(Removal of Control) Order 1953 . 


8 . R . O . 279 , dated the 
Bth February 1953 . 


Ditto 


Certain amendmonts made in tho 
S . R . O . 1286 , dated tho 22nd July 
1002 . 


Qoplog of the Gazettes Extraordinary mention . d above will be guppliod on Indont to the 
Manager of Publioations, Civil Lines , Dalhi. Indents should bo gubnitted g ) to reach tho 
Manager within ton days of the date of inuo of these Gazettes . 

( 191 ) 


192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


( PART II - SEC. 3 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1953 
8 . R . O . 290 . - - It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica 
Hong under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 ( XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and addregs 
are given below , as notified under notification No. TP -CS / 52 (6 ), dated the 15th 
May , 1952 , have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clausę and section 144 of the said Act res 
pectively : 
Shri Tarint Kr. Deb , P .O . Kamalpur, Village Baligaon , Tripura . 

[No. TP -CS / 52(33).) 
New Delhi, the 4th February 1953 
8 . R . O . 291 . - It is hereby notifed for general information that the disqualifica 
Hong under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 ( XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as notified under notification No. AS- P / 52 (6 ) , dated the 13th May , 
1952, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the powerg 
conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act respectively : 
Shri Nllmoni Barthakur , Siring Chapari P .O . Rehabari, Dibrugarh , Assam . 

[NO, AS - P / 52 (10 ). ) 
S . R . O . 292. - It is hereby notifled for general information that the disqualif 
cations under clause (c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 ( XLIII of 1951), incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as notified under notiAcation No . BR - P / 52 (31) , dated the 19th 
May , 1952 , have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act respec 
Hvely : 
Shri Umashanker Shukula , Village Ratanmala , P . O . Bettiah , District 
Champaran , Bihar , 

[No. BR - P /52 (69 ). ) 
P . N . SHINGHAL , Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1953 
8 . R . O . 293 . - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Delhi shall, subject to the 
control of the President and until further orders , exercise the powers and discharge 
the functions of the Central Government under the provisions of the Indian Powen 
Alcohol Act, 1948 (XXII of 1948 ) in the State of Delhi. 

[No. 20 / 15 / 52 - Judl } 
GULZAR SINGH , Asstt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Reyenue and Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1953 
S . R . O . 294 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
road with articles 313 and 372 of the Constitution and paragraph 19 of the Adapta 
tion of Laws Order , 1950, the President hereby directs that the following further 
amendment shall be made in the Civil Service Regulations, namely : 

In the schedule of appointments carrying special additional pensions appended 
to article 475- A of the said Regulations, under the head " A -Upper Grade" , in the 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


193 


existing entry " Inspector General of Forests and President of the Forest Research 
Institute , Dehra Dun " , the words and President of the Forest Research Institute , 
Dehra Dun " shall be omitted . 

[No, F .1 (2 )- EV / 53. 1 
H . F . B . PAIS , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

INSURANCE 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1953 
S . R . O . 295 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of 
section 114 of the Insurance Act, 1938 ( IV of 1938 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the Insurance Rules , 
1939 , the same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) 
of the said section , namely : 

In the said Rules, - 
1. In rule 2 . 
(a ) in clause ( ill) for the words " and Madhya Bharat” the words "Madhya 

Bharat and Bhopal” shall be substituted . 
(b ) in clause ( iv ) after the words " and Orissa " the words " and including 

the Andaman and Nicobar Islands" shall be inserted . 
2 . In rule 10B , 
(a ) in clause (b ) after the words with banks" the brackets and words 

" (other than banks in liquidation ) " shall be inserted ; 
(b ) after clause (g ) the following clause shall be inserted , namely , 
" (h ) temporary advances granted to chief , special and Insurance agents to 

the extent permitted under clausę (b ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 29 

of the Act." 
3 . In rule 15 , 
(a ) in sub -rule (7 ) the words " Save as provided in sub -rule (8 )” shall be 

omitted ; 
(b ) in sub -rule (8 ) the words and figures " except when the total number of 

directors to be elected by policyholders under section 48 of the Act is 

only one " shall be omitted . 
4 . In rulo 170 , 

( a ) for item ( Ili) the following item shall be substituted , namely -- 
(iii) one -twentieth of one per cent. of the average of the total sums assured 

by policies on which no further premiums are payable ( less re 

insurances) at the beginning ancl end of the year , 
(b ) in the table under item ( v ) in the heading in the second column after the 

words and brackets " percentage of premiums ( less reinsurance ) received 
during the year the words, figures and brackets " Other than premiums. 

referred to in items (i ) and ( ii ) above shall be inserted . 
( c ) the Explanation to rule 17D shall be renumbered as Explanation I and 

after the Explanation as so renumbered the following Explanation shall 

be added , namely 
" Explanation II: The duration of an insurer s life insurance business shall 

be reckoned from the beginning of the calender year of commence 
ment of the business if the date of commencement is in the first half 
of the year and from the end of the calender year of each commence 

ment if the date of commencement is in the second half of the year , 
5 . For rule 24B the following rule shall be substituted , namely , 
" 24B . Fees payable to the Councis , - - ( 1 ) The fees payable by a member or 

associate member who is an insurer carrying on life insurance business 
to the Life Insurance Council in each calender year shall be Afty rupees 
for every lakh of rupees or part, thereof of his gross direct premium 
income from life insurance business in India in the last but one preced 
ing calender year subject to a maximum of one thousand and two 
hundred and fifty rupees . 


191 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[ PART II — SEC. 9 


(2 ) The fees payable by a member or associate member who is an Insurer 

carrying on general ingurance business to the General Insurance Council 
in each calender year in respect of each class of general insurance busi 
ness shall be seventy -fve rupees for every lakh of rupees or part thereof 
of his gross direct premium income in India in that class of general 
ingurance business in the last but one preceding calender year subject to 
a maximum of three thousand rupees for each class. 


( 3 ) Any fee specified in this rule shall be paid by means of a crossed bank 

draft on the Simla Branch of the Imperial Bank of India drawn in 

favour of the Secretary of the Council concerned . 
6 . In rule 32 , in sub - rule ( 1) , the words " at the time of making a nomination " and 
the proviso shall be omitted , 
7 . In the Schedule , - 
(a ) in Form III for the words " Ministry of Commerce, Government of India , 

New Delhi / Simla " the words " Department of Insurance , Simla " shall be 

substituted , 
(b ) in form V , in paragraph 3, after Item (5 ), the following item shall be in 

scrted , namely — 
“ (6 ) If the applicant holds a certificate to act as a Principal Agent and / or a 

Chief Agent and / or a Special Agent, state No, nad date of expiry of 
the certificate or certificates held . If no certificate is held say NIL . 
If any such certificate has been applied for , state the date of the appli 

cation , 
(c ) In form V - A after paragraph 2 , the following paragraphs shall be inserted 

as paragraphs 3 and 4 and the existing paragraph 3 shall be renumbered 

as paragraph 5 : 
* 3 * I hold /havo applied | Principal Agent 
for a cortificate to actſ No. P . A . 

_ expiring on . 
EB & 

Chiof Agont 
No . O . AL 

expiring on 
Special Agint 
No. S . 1. _ . 

expiring on 
4 * I neither hold nor heveſ Pri:voipal Agont 

Applied for cortificate 
to act 48 t 

Chief Agent 

( Special Agent " 
( d ) in Form V - C in paragraph 3 , after item (5 ), the following item shall be in 

serted , namely 
" ( 0 ) If the applicant holds a license to act as an Insurance Agent and / or man 

certificate or certificates to act as a Principal Agent and / or a Chief 
Agent and / or a Special Agent, state No. and date of expiry of license 
and / or certificate or certificates held . If no license or certificate is 
held , say Nil. If a license or certificate has been applied for , state the 

date of the application ." 
( e) In Form V - D , 
(i) below the word " Form ” the following shall be inscrted , namely 

" Mr./ Mrs. / Miss / Messrs." 
( ii) after paragraph 3, the following paragraph shall be inserted as para 

graphs 4 and 5 
- 4 * I/we hold / havo 

a licenye to aot 49 an injurino Agent No. . _ _ 
upplied for 

expiring on 
i certificate to aot i9 a Prinoipul Agent No. P . A . ... 
expiring on 
ü cartificate to got as a Chief Agent No. C . A . _ 
cxpiring oil . 
A cortišoate to not ag & Speoial Age :10 No. S . A . 
expiring on 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 . 


195 


8°, I /We neither hold norſ & licence to act Aann Induradon Agont 
. baye applied for 

& certificate to act As A Principal Agent 
A certificate to act as a Chief Agent 

certificate to act, & Special Agent," 
and the existing paragraph 4 shall be renumbered ag paragraph 6 . 

[No. 102-I.F .( 1) / 52.] 
B . K . KAUL , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1953 
S . R . O . 296 . - In pursuance of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 34 of the Industrial 
Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (XV of 1948 ) as amended by the Industrial Finance 
Corporation ( Annendment) Act, 1952 (LXXVIII of 1952 ) , the Central Government. 
in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor -Gencral of India bereby appoints 
Messrs . S . Vaidyanath Aiyar and Company , Delhi, as one of the Auditors of the 
Industrial Finance Corporation of India , for the year ending the 30th June, 1953 , 

[ No. F .2 (59 ) - F . III / 52 . ) 

N . C. SEN GUPTA , Dy . Secy . 
- - 

- 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE ( REVENUE DIVISION ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1953 
S . R . O . 297 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 23 of the Sen Cus 
toms Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878 ), the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following amendment shall be made in the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ) No. 75 , dated the 17th Novem 
her, 1951 : 
In column 2 against itern 6 in the Second Schedule appended to the sald 

notification for the figures and brackets " 58 ( 2 )" the figures , brackets 
and word " 58 ( 1 ) or 58 ( 2 )" shall be substituted . 

[No. 9 .J 
A . K . MUKARJI, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME -TAX 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1953 
S . R . O . 298 . - The following draft of certain further emendments to the Icdien Inccmc- tay 
Rules , 1922 , which the Central Erard of Revenue proposes to make in exercice. cf the cer8 con 
ferred by sub -section ( 1) of secticn 59 cf the Indian Irccre -tex Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922) is fub listed 
As required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the said section , for the ir foj mration of all perecrs likely to be 
affected thereby and notice is herety given that the said draft will be taken into corsideration on 
rafter the 15 th March , 1953 . 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from ny perecn with 168fcct to the 
paid draft before the date specified will be considered by the said Ecard . 


Drajt Amendment 
(a ) The return of total income and the total world income required under sub -sectica (1) 
or sub - section (2 ) of section 22 shall 
(1) in the case of persons who derive income from sources including business , profession or 

vocation be in Form A annexed to this Rule ; and 
( 11) in the case of persons who derive income from sources other than business , profession 

Or yocation (not being & share as a partier in a flim or 88 a number of in a 
Association of persons be in Form B annexed to this Rule 


198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[PART II - Sec . 9 


and shall be verificd in the manner indicated therein : 

FORM A 
Form of Röturn of totallazon : anitstal woollins) n :ufer 1 ) - 3ertion ( 1 ) or sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 22 of the Indigo Income- tax Act, 1922 , for persons who derive incon = from sourcco 
Including BUSINESS , PROFESSION or VOCATION , 

Income- tex year 19 - 19 
Name .. . .... .. . ... .... . ... ... 
Address . .., 

PART I 


. 


. 


. 


I 


Statement of total incomcaad total world income during the previous year ended , 


Source of income 


Amount 
of income 


Tex already 
charged or 
deducted at 

source 


Remarks : 
Section A : If incomo 

Arosc in a Part B State 
or emerged territory , 
mention that State or 
territory , and if it was 
received in or remit 
ted to another Sta 
te that other State , 
Section B : Statc if 
the income arosc in 
Jammu and Kashmir or 
in an earstwhile Indian 
State or in a foreigo 
country , mentioning 
the name of that 
foreign country . 


Section A . - Income which accrucd 

or arose or was received in the first 
instance or is deemed to have accru 
ed or arisen or been received IN 
THE TAXABLE TERRITORIES 
in the previous year . 


1 . SALARIES, ( The value of rent 

frce quarters and contributions by 
your employer to a recognized 
Provident Fund with interest on 
your and your employer s contri 
bution and on accumulations 
thercof should be shown scparatç 

ly ) ; 
Pleasc attach a detailed statement of 

monthly salary and tax deducted 
therefron . 


2 . INTEREST ON SECURI 

TIES . - - Interest from which tax 

lias been decuçled . 
Interest which is lax free . 


3 , PROPERTY , -- Total amount as 

derailed in part of the Return . 


4 . BUSINESS , PROFESSION OR 

VOCATION . - - ( a ) Profits and 
gains detailed in Part IV of this 

Rolur . 
( 6 ) Share of profits in a Regd . Tiirm , 
( c ) Share of profitsin an unregistered 

Firm or Association ofpersons. 


PART TI — SEC, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


- 


- 


- 


- 


N 


X . OTHER SOURCES . - Dividends 

from companico ( gross amount) 
interest on Mortgages ,Loans, fixed 

Deposits , CurrentA /cs , etc . 
Ground Renta , . 
Sourcos other than those mentioned 

above ( give details ) . 


6 . CAPITAL . - This item need be 

filled in only if the Return is for a 
previous year which includes 
wholly or parily any period falling 
between the first day of April 
1946 end the 318t day of March 

T9. 3 (Both day , inclusive ). 
( Pleasc attach 1 statement showing 

how the amount of capital gains 
has been arrived at.) 


TOTAL OF SECTION A 


ON A 


, 


Section B . - Income which accrued 

or erose OUTSIDE THE TAXA 
ABLE TERRITORIES IN the 

previous year . 
Vá ) NON RESIDENTS should 

Show full incomc ( except foreign 
compitalgains) in this acction as for 
ming part of their TOTAL 

WORLD INCOME . 
( 6 ) Persons ORDINARILY RESI 

DENT in the taxable territories 
should show their income after 
deducing up to a maximum of Rs. 
4 , 500 out of income not rcmitted 

to the taxable tcrritories . 
c ) Penons residentbutnot ordinari 

ly resident should show only so 

much of the Inoomo 
( 1) as arises from share in a firm or 

association of persons whose 
ibusiness is controlled in India 
for profession or vocation is set 

up in India . 
(it) as is actually received in or re 

mitted to the taxable territories 

out of any other income, 
(Please state for each item the heading 

of the income as in Section A ). 
( I ) . . .. . 


TOTAL SECTIONIB 


Section C . - REMITTANCES TO 

THE TAXABLE TERRITO 
RIES . Out of incomc which 
accrued or arose prior to the previous 
year and afterthe 31st day of March 
1933 orin the case of Capital Gains 
which accrucd or arose after the 
31st March 1946 and before the ist 
April 1948 . ( If the remittance is 
out of Capital Gains chargcable to 
tax , plcase state this specifically ) . 


THU GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[ PART II - SEC . 3 


NOT APPLICABLE IN THE CASE 
OF NON -RESIDENTS : 


( a ) Out of income which accrued or 

arose in the State of Jammu and 
Kashmir and 


(1) was not taxed , 
(11 ) was included in the total in 

come but not actually charged 

to tax , 
( 11 ) was included in the total in 

come and also charged to tax in 
the appropriat ycar . 


[ Item (iii) is to bementioned only 
but not to be added in the total 
income). 


(6 ) Out of income wbich accrued 

or arose in a Part B State or a 
merged territory or on carst 
while Indian State , and 


was not taxed , 
(11) was Included in the total 

income but not actually 

charged to tax , 
( in ) was included in the total 

income and also charged to 
tax but at a lower rate , 


(iv ) was included in the total 

income and also charged 
to tax at full rate in the 
appropriate year , 


{Items (iii ) and (iv ) are to be men 

tioned only but not to be 
Added in the total Incomc ). 


(c) Out of income which accrued 

or prose in a foreign country 
And 


was not charged to tax on 

Account of the deduction 
of upto Rs. 4 , 500 or 

otherwise . 
( it) was charged to tax , 
( Item (id is to be mentioned only 

but is not to be added to 
the total income). 


TOTAL OF SECTION C . 


TOTAL OF SECTIONS A , B & C 


PART II - - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1053 


109 


- - 


Sources of Income 


Particulars of items 


Amount 

Rs. 


SECTION D . - IN THIS SECTION 

SHOULD BE SHOWN ANY 
INCOME PROFITS OR GAINS 
WHICH ARE NOT INCLU DED 
IN SECTIONS A , B , AND C , 
BUT WHICH THE ASSESSEE 
CLAIMS TO BE NOT TAX 
ABLE FOR ANY REASON 
SUCH AS 


به 


ما 


that the rcceipt is of a casual na 

ture not arising from any 
business, profession , voca 
tion , or occupation , or that 
it is exempt under any other 
provision of the Indian 
Income- tax Act, or 


that it is not accounted for in the 

books of accounts due to 
non - adjustment of accounts ; 
or for any other reason . 


TOTAL OF SECTION D 


PART II 
Statement of sums included in total income in respect of which income tax and /or Super 

tax is not payable. 


1 . Earned income allowance under Section 15 A . 
2 . Sums deducted from salary payable by the Government and to 

which the proviso to sub -section ( 1 ) of section 7 of the Act apples . 


Sums paid to effect an insurance on the life of the assessee or on the 
life of his wife , or her husband or in respect of a contract for 
a deferred annuit ; ; or, in the case of a Hindu Undivided Family , 
to effect an insurance on the life of an any male member of his wife, 
( The original recçipt or Certificate from the insurance Company 
must be attached ). 


Contributions to ( a ) any provident fund to which the Provident 
Funds Act, 1925 , applies (b ) a recognised provident fund or (c ) 
an approved superannuation fund, and ( d ) intercst on contri 
butions to a recognised provident fund and accumulations thereof 
which is exempt from income- tax . 


3 . 


Share in the income of an unregistered fiſm or an association of per 
sons where the tax has already been paid or is payable on the in 
come by the firm or Association ( give details ) . 


6 . Interest on tex free securities . 
7 . Income accruing or arising in the State of Jammu and Kaşhmir 

which is exempt unless brought into the territory of India other 
than the said State . . . 


8 . Income from New Industrial undertakings exempt under section 

15 - C of the Indian Income tax Act, 


200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[PART 11 -- Sec . 3 


9. Donations to charitable Institutions and Punds. 
IO . Other items, if any. 


TOTAL 


PART III 
Particular required vader Sub - section (3 ) of Section 22 of the Income tax not, iva . 

(a ) To be completed in the case of all persons engaged in a business, profession or vocation . 

In the case of a firm this section should be completed on the firm s return and not on the 

individual partner s return . 
Namo in which the business , profession or vocation 
carried on , or, in the case of a firm the firm s name 


Principal place of the business, profession or vocation 
Location and style of each branch 


(6 ) To be completed in the case of firms only . 


Name of each partner 


Address 


Extent of shares including 
interest in capital salary 
commission or other remuno 

ration , if any 

( Blve details). 


(c) To be completed in cases where th : assessee is a partner in a firm or firms 


Name and address of the 

firm 


Name of each 

partner | Address of each partner 
including the 

assessee 


Share of each part 
ner including in 
terest on capital 
salary , commission or 
other remuneration, 
if any. 

(Give details). 


PART IV 
Particulars of income from Business, Profession or Vocation 


( 1 ) In the case of a firm this part is to be completed in the firm s Return and not in the 
partner s individual rf urn3. 


(2 ) If the accounts are kept on the mercantile accountancy or book profit system a copy of the 
Manufacturing Accounts or Trading Accounts , the Profit and Loss Accounts and balance Sheet or 
trial balances must be attached to this Return . If the accounts are kept on any other system 
the name or description of the system is to be stated and a copy of any statement which corres 
· ponds to the Profit and Loss Account and balance shcet in the mercantile accountancy system 


"PART II — SEÇ, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14, 1953 


201 


must be attached to this Return . In the case of a Company a copy of the apdi tors Report and 

acertificate must also be attached . In the case of Assessees other than company if the Account 
SIC auditcd , a statement of audited accounts should accompany the returg but if the accounts is 

not audited , a statement showing how profits have been computed from the books of accounts main . 
teincd for the business should accompany the return . 


PROFIT OR LOSS AS PER PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT (OR 
STATEMENT CORRESPONDING TO THE PROFIT AND LOSS 
- ACCOUNT) FOR THE YEAR ENDED 

19 . 


Add ( Deduct If the above figure is a loss ) 
Any profits or gains not included in arriving at the above figure of 

Profit. 


. 


Reserve for Bad Debts . . . . . . 
Sums carried to reserve for provident or other funds . 
Interest credited to reservce or other funds . . 


. 


Expenditure of the nature of charity or presents 


Expenditure of the nature of capital 


. 


. 


. 


UM 


Income- tax or Super- tax . 


Drawings of proprictor or partners . 


. 


. 


Salaries and commission paid or credited to the proprietor 

partners . 


or 


Interest allowed to proprietor or partners on capital or loan accounts 


Rental value of the property owned and occupied . . . 
Cost of additions to or alterations, extensions or improvements 

to any of the assets of the business . 
Losses sustained in former years and charged in arriving at the figure 

of profit ( or loss ) shown above. 


Depreciation of any of the assets of the business . 


. 


. 


. 


Private or personal expenses 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Any other expenditure not incurred wholly and exclusively for the 

purpose of the business, profession or vocation . (Give details) , 


Any other expenditure which is not allowable under the provisions of 

Section 10 of the Income- tax Act , 1922 (Give details ) . 


Deduct 

Any profit or gains , capital sums or other itemg credited in arriving 

at the above figure of profit which are not taxable or upon which 
tax has already been paid . (Give details ). 


Interest on securily tax frce . . . . . 
Depreciation allowable as shown in Part V of this Return 


. 
, 


. 
, 


Scientific Research Expenditure (if not charged in arriving at the above 
figure of profit. ) 
(1) Any cxpcnditure (not in the nature of capital expenditure ) 

laid out or cxpended on scientific research related to the 
business . (Give details .) 


(i ) Any sum paid to an approved scientific rescarch association 

or an approved university , college or other itistitution for such 
scientific rescarch . (Give details .) 


202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


(PART II -- Sec. 3 


PROFIT OR LOSS AS PER PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT (OR 
STATEMENT CORRESPONDING TO THE PROFIT AND 
LOSS ACCOUNT) FORTHE YEAR ENDED 

19 


Rs. 


Rs. 


( 111 ) Any expenditure of a capital nature on scientific research 

related to the business admissible under Section 10 ( 2 ) (xiv ) 
of the Act. (Give details . ) 


Any other allowable expense which has not been charged lo arriving 

at the above figure of profit . (Give details . ) 


Net Profit (or loss- - corried to Part I of the Return 


N . B . - The above particulars should be given for each separate and distinct business, pro 
fession or vocation . 


PART V . — DEPRECIATION . 
Statement of particulars prescribed under proviso (a ) of Section 10 (2 ) (vi) of the Income- tax Act , 1922 and of the 

Amount of depreciation allowable 


PARTII-SEC.3] 


Depreciation 
allowable 


Remarks 


Date from 

which the 
Description of * Written down Capital expen - additions , etc . 

buildings value as at dilure during referred to io 
machinery , the begibning , the year for col. ( 3 ) are 
plant or fur of that aduitioas , a - used for the 
niture accountiog ! terations im purposes of 

period provements the business 
[ See note 19 ( d ) and profession or 

extensions. Vocation 


If a plant or machinery ! 
has been sold or dis 
carded during the year Amount on Prescribed 
show in this column which de- date per 

the written down preciation is cent 
value as at the be Dow allowable 
ginning of the ac 
counting period and 
the value for which 
it is actually sold 
or its scrap value . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,FEBRUARY14,1953 


* NOTES - ( 1) In the case of Ocean - going ships , particular of " original cost " instead of those of the " written down value " should be furnished 

(2 ) For the assessment year 1939 - 40 , the figures to be furnished are those of " Original cost " instead of those of written down value ." 
+ (3 ) Capital expenditure on new machinery on plant or new buildings erected should be shown separately and in the remarks column 

against each such entry it should be indicated that initial depreciation is claimed . 
Show separately the depreciation allowable under sections A , D and of this form , 


-SerialNo. 


situated 
property is | Property 

where the Number of 
lage or town Street and 
Name of vil . Name of 


Nor - Show separately the property chargeable under section A , D & E of this form : 


value 
annual letting 
to arrive at 
Adjustment 


PART VI - INCOME FROM PROPERTY 


Whentheproperty18situatedin 

&Municipality,tlionameofthe 
personinwhosenametheproperty 

standsinthoMunicipalregister 
Whetherthepropertyisoccupiedby 

theownerorlot Ifyouareapurtownorofthepropor 

tyAbntothean:ountofyourshure andthenamesoftheotherpart ownersandtheirsliures 
AnnualMunicipalvaluationofthe 

property 
Fullannualrentpayablebythe 

tenantifthepropertyislot Tenant sburdone(including1 

rates)bornebyowner 

Givedetails 
Owner sburdens(including 

rates)bornebytenant 

Givedetails -Annuallottingvalueafteradjusting 

forColo.Oand10 
Ono-sixthoftheannualletting SvalueasinCol.11 

Premiumpaidtoinsurethe hethypropertyagainstdamageor 

destruction 
Intereston&mortgageor 

chargeoranyannualcharge ontheproportyorintorest Oncapitalborrowedfor acquiring,constructing. repuiring,renowingorre 

construotingproperty -Groundrontpaidforpro O 

perty -LandRovenuepaidforthe 

property 5Collectionchargespaid Amountolaimedonaocountof 

thepropertyremaining 

vacant 
-Periodduringwhichthopro 

portyromainedvacant 8TotalofColumns12to18 Notannualvalueassesgebleafterde 

ductingColumu20fromColumn11 


the retum 
Les8 (i) Claim 

completion . 
Yet Income from property carried to Part I of 

details separately ) 
Total Incorne fron property 

period of two years from the date of 

March 1952 which is exempt for a 
( ii ) Income from property erected during 
the period Ist April 1946 to 31st 

for irrecoverable raat (give 


annual value 
Deductions front annual letting value to arrive at net 


[PARTII—Sec.3: 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,FEBRUARY14,1953 


F02 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1933 


206 


PART VII – PARTICULARS OF INCOME FROM CAPITAL GAINS 


Note. - Separate statements should be attached showing in detail 

( J ) All capital assets owned by the assessee (including capital assets transferred to the wife or 
minor child ) as at the beginning of the previous year in three parts 

( a ) Capital assets included in the Balance Sheet as at the close of the immediately preced 

ing previous year. This statement should also show as regards depreciable assets the 
valuc against each item as included in the Balance Sheet and as regards non - depre 

ciable assets the cost thereof . 
(6 ) Capital assets consisting of house property included in Part VI of the Return with costi. 

thereof against each item . 
(c ) Capital assets not included in statements under (a ) and (b) with cost thereof against 

each item , 
( 2 ) All capital assets acquired during the previous year with cost of acquisition against each 
Item . This statement should also include capital assets used for the purpose of the business . 
which are included in Part V of the return and on which depreciation is claimc d . 

(3 ) All capital assets gold during the year with sale price against each item . The total of the : 
sale price should be taken to the appropriate column of the tabular statement under this part . 


Total 


Immovable Machinery) Others 
property and plant 

Rs. | Re. Rs. 


RA, 


Full value of the consideration for which the 

sale, exchange or transfer of capital assets is 
made . 


Doductions. 


I . Actual cost of the capital assets sold 

( give details separately ) . 


2 . Expenditure of a capital nature in 

curred and borne by the assessee in 
making any additions or alteratione ( give 
details separately ) , 


3 . Expenditure incurred solcly in connec 

tion with the sale, exchange or transfer. 


Loss . 


Any option or other money reccived and 
retained by the assessee on any previous 
occasion . 


Total of cost and other deductions admiş 

sible 


Amount of capital gains 


Deduct. Loss sustained in the previous year 


Cost of any new capital assct purchased for the 

same purpose as the assct sold , exchanged or 
transferred was being put to [ To be filled in 
only when an election is made in the circum 
Btances set out in Section VI B (4 ) of the In 
come tax Act, 1922 . ] 


Net amount of capital gains carried to Part I 

of the Return . 


206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[PART II Sec. 3 


I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information given in the above 
statements in parts I, II , III , IV , V , VI and VII of this Return is correct and completa 
that the amount of totai income and total world income and other particulars shown are truly 
stated and relate to the year ended .. . .. ... . . 

* * пје 

the firm 
and that no other income accrued or arease or was received by the family during the 

The association 

the company 
the local authority 


the firm 

the family 
- Baid year and that the aggociation had during the said year no other sources of income. 

the company 
the local authority 


the firm 
I further declare that the family was 

the association 
the company 


resident and ordinarily resident 
resident but not ordinarily resident in the taxablo 

not resident 


territories during the previous year for which the Return is made. 


- Date 


Signature 


Address. ....... 


.... Status 


* Note 1. – The alternatives which are not required in th : dzclaration should be scored out , 
Note 2.--- The declaration shall be signed 

( a ) in the case of an individual by the individual himself ; 
(b ) in the case of a Hindu Undivided Family by the Manager or Karta ; 
(c ) in the case of a company or local authority by the principal officer ; 
(d ) in the case of a firm by a partner ; and 
(e) in the casc of any other association by a member of the association . 


THE SIGNATORY SHOULD SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE RETURN IS COR 
RECT AND COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT BEFORE SIGNING THE VERIFICA 
TION , 


FORM B . 
Formn of Return of total income and total world income under sub -section ( 1) or sub -sectior 
( 2 ) of Section 22 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 , for persons who derive income from sources 
OTHER THAN BUSINESS , PROFESSION OR VOCATION (not being a share as a partner 
in a firm or as a member in an association of persons) . 


Income-tex ycar 


19 


- 19 


. 


. 


Name 


Addregs . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


207 


Part 1 
Statement of total income and total world income during the previous year ended 


. . . . . . . 


REMARKS 


Source of income 


Amount of | Tax already | Section A : If income arose 
income charged or in a Part B State or a 

deducted at merged territory, men 
source . 

tion that State or ter 
ritory , and if it was re 
ceived in or remitted 
to another State that 
other State . : 


Section B : State if the 

income aroge in Jammu 
and Kashmir or in an 
crstwhile Indian Stato 
or in a foreing country, 
mentioning the name 
of that foreign country . 


SECTION A . - Income which accrued 

or arose or was recelyed in the 
first instance or is deemed to have 
accrued or arisen or been received 
IN THE TAXABLE TERRI 

TORIES in the previous year;- . 
I . SALARIES . - ( The value of rent 

free quarters and contributions 
by your employer to a recogni 
zed Provident Fund with interest 
on your and your employer s 
contribution and on accumula 
tions thereof should be shown 
geparately ) ; 


Pleagc attach a detailed statement 

of monthly salary and tax deduc 
ted therefrom 


2 , INTEREST ON SECURITIES. 

Interest from which tax has been 
deducted . 
Interest which is tax- free . 


3. PROPERTY , -- 

Total amount as detailed in 
of the Return . 


part 


4 . BUSINESS , PROFESSION OR 

VOCATION , 
(a ) Share of profits in a Regd , Firm 
(0 ) Share of profits in an unregister 

ed Firm or Association of per 
sons , 


5 . OTHER SOURCES , 

Dividends from companies ( gross 
amount) interest on Mortgages , 
Loans, fixed Deposits, Current 

a / cs , etc . 
Ground Rents . 
Sources other than those mention 
ed above (glve details) 


[ PART II - Sec , 3 


208 
-T 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 
- = 


- 


- 


- 


= 


= 


- 


= 


- 


- 


= 


LI: 


6 . CAPITAL , 
This item nced be filled in only if the 

Return is for a previous year 
which includes wholly or partly 
any period falling betweçn the 
first day of April 1946 and the 
318t day of March 1948 (Bouh 

days inclusive ). 
( Please attach a statement showing 

how the amount of capital gains 
has been arrived at.) 


TOTAL OF SECTION A . 


SECTION B . - Incoine which ac 

crued or arose OUTSIDE THE 
TAXABLE TERRITORIES 

IN the previous year . 
( a ) NON - RÉSIDENTS should show 

full inconie ( cxcept forcign capi 
tal gains ) in this Section 48 
forming part of their TOTAL 

WORLD INCOME. 
(6 ) Persons ORDINARILY RE 

SIDENT in the taxable territori 
es should show their income after 
deducting up to a maximum of 
Rs. 4 ,500 out of income not remit 
ted to the taxablo territories, 
Persons resident but not ordinari 
ly resident should show only go 
much of the income- - 
(i) as arises from share in a firm 

Or association of persons whose 
business is controlled in India 
or profession or vocation is act 

up in India . 
(11) as is actually received in or 

remitted to the taxable terri 

tories out of any other income. 
[ Please state for cach item the head 

ing of the income as in Section A ] 


TOTAL OF SECTION B . 


SECTION C .- REMITTANCES TO 

THE TAXABLE TERRITORIES 
out of income which accrued or arose 
prior to the previous year and after 
the 31st day of March 1933 or in the 
case of Capital Gains which ac 
crued or arose after the 31st March 
1946 and before the 1st April 1948 . 
( If the remittance is out of Capital 
Gaing chargeable to tax , please state 

this specifically .) 
NOT T APPLICABLE IN THE 

CASE OF NON -RESIDENTS , 
( a ) Out of income which accrued 

or arose in the State of Jammu 
and Kashmir and 
(i) was not taxed , 
( 12 ) was included in the total in . 

come but not actually charged 
to tax , 


PART II— Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14, 1953 


209 


- . . 


. 


- 


( ) was included in the total in 

come and also charged to tax in 

the appropriate year. 
[ Item (111) is to be mentioned only 

but not to be added in the total 

incomc.) 
(6 ) Out of incomc which accrued or 

arose in a Part B Statç or a mer 
ged territory or an crstwhile 
Indian State , and 
( 1 ) was not taxed , 
(ii) was included in the total in 

comc but not actually charged 

to tax , 
(iii) was included in the total 

Income and also charged 

to tax but at a lower rate , 
(iv ) was included in the total 

income and also charged to tax 
at full rate in the appropriate 


year , 


[ Items (int) and (iv ) arc to bc mcn 

tioned only but not to be added 

in the total income. ] 
( c ) Out of income which accrucd 

or arosc in a foreign country and 
(i) was not charged to tax on 

account of the deduction 
of upto Rs. 4 , 500 or otherwise , 

(it) was charged to tax 
[ Item (ii) is to be mentioned only 

but is not to be added in the 
tоtаl incoцe ]. 


TOTAL OF SECTION C . 


TOTAL OF SECTIONS A , B and C . 


Sources of Income 


Particulars of items 


Amount 

Rs. 


SECTION D . - IN THIS SECTION SHOULD BE 
SHOWN ANY INCOME PROFITS ORGAINSWHICH 
ARE NOT INCLUDED IN SECTIONS A , B AND C 
BUT WHICH THE ASSESSEE CLAIMS TO BE NOT 
TAX ABLE FOR ANY REASON SUCH AS 


that the receipt is of a casual nature not arising from 
any business , profession , vocation or occupation , or that 
it is exempt under any other provision of the Indian 
Income- tax Act, or 


that it is not accounted for in the books of accounts 
due to non - adjustment of accounts ; or for any other 
reason . 


TOTAL OF SECTION D 


210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


- 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


PART II 


Statement of sums included ja Total lacome in rospect of which income tax and /or 

supor - tax is not payablo 


1. Earned income allowance under Section 15 A . 
2 . Sums deducted from salary payable by theGovernment and to which the proviso to 

. sub - section ( 1 ) of section 7 of the Act applies . 


3 . Sums paid to effect an insurance on the life of the a88c8ace or on the life of his wife , 

or her husband or in respect of a contract for a deferred annuity ; or, in the 
case of a Hindu Undivided Family , to effect an insurance on the life of any 
male member or his wife , ( The original receipt or Certificate from the insurance 
company must be attached .) 


4 . Contributions to ( a ) any provident fund to which the Provident Funds Act, 

1925 , applies , (b ) a recognised provident fund , or (c ) an approved superannuation 
fund , and ( d ) interest on contributions to a recognised provident fund and accu 
mulations thereof which is cxempt from income- tex . 


5 . Share in the income of an unregistered firm or an association of persons where the 

tax has already been paid or is payable on the income by the firm or association 
( give details) . 


6 . Interest on tax - free securities. 


7 , Income accruing or arising in the State of Jammu and Kashmir which is cxemptun 

less broughtinto the territory of India other than the said State . 


8 . Share of income from New Industrial undertakings exempt under section 15 - C of 

the Indian Income- tax Act. 


9 . Donations to charitabic Institutions and Funds . 
10 . Other items, if any . 


TOTAL 


PART II 
Particulare required under Sub - section (3 ) of Section 22 of tho Income- tax Act, 1927 


If you are a partner in a firm furnish the particulars required below : 


Name and address of the firm 


Name of each 

partner 
including the 
assessee 


Address of each 

partner 


Share of cach partner 
Including interest on 
capital salary , com 
mission or other re 
muncration , if any 

(Give details) 


SerialNo. 


įg Situated 

village or 
the property Nanber of 
town where Street and 
Name of 1 

property 
Name of 


4 


0 


Whenthopropertyissituatedina Municipality,thenameofthe personinwhosenametheproper tystandsintheMunicipalregister Whothortheproperty18oooupled 

bythoownerorlet Ifyouare#partownorofthoproper 

tystatetheannountofyourshare andthenainesoftheotherpart 

ownersandtheirBheres AnnualMunjoipalvaluationofthe 

property Fullannualrentpuyablebythe 

tonantiftheproportyislet 
Tenant sburdenu(includ 
ingrates)bornobyownor 

Givodetails 
Owner sburdens(including 

rated)bornebytenants 

Givedetails 
Annuallettingvalueafteradjust 

ingforCole,9and10 One-sixthoftheannualletting 

valueasinCol.11 
Premiumpaidtoingurothe 

proportyagainstdamageor 
deatruotion 
Interestonan.ortgageorchar 

georanyAnnualchargeon 
theproportyorintoreaton 
capitalborrowedforacquir 
ing,constructing,repairing. 
ronowingorreconstructing 

property 
Groundrontpuidforpro 

perty 
LandRevonuepaidfortho 

property Collectionchargespaid 


value 
annual letting 
| to arrive at 
| Adjustment 


PART IV - INCOME FROM PROPERTY 


* 


A 


the retan , 

completion . 
( u ) Income fro : 

Separately ). 
Net income from property carried to Part I of 
Total inconie from property 

period of two years from the date of 
March 1952 which is exempt for & 

the period lst April 1946 to 318t 
Lese - i) Claim for irrecoverable rent (give details 

property erected during 


arrive at not annual value 
Deductions from annel letting valde to 


16 


- 


AmountOlaimedonaccount 

ofthepropertyremaining 

vacant Poriodduringwhichthepro 

pertyremainedvacant Totalofcolumng12to18 


8 


Netannualvalue4980Baableafter 

deductingcolumn20fromcolumn11. 


896I BIAUVO 


VIONIJOJLLAZY"IHL 


[&99$ 


IILUVA 


212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


I declare that to the bestofmy knowledge and bclicf the information given in the above stato 
ments in parts , I, II , III and IV of this Return is correct and completc , that the amounts of tota I 
income and total world income and other particulars shown are truly stated and relate to the year 
ended .. . . . . .. 
and that no other income accrucd or arose or was received by the family during the 

the association 


IIIIIII 


* me 


I 


aid ycar and that the family had during the said year no other sources of income. 
the association 

resident and ordinarily reeldent 
I further declare that the family was resident but not ordinarily resident in the taxable 
the 189ociation 

for resident 
territorice during the previous year for which the Return is made . 
Date 

Signature 
Address 

1 Satatus 
* NOTE 1. — The alternatives which are not required in the declaration should be scored out. 
INOTE 2. - The declaration shall be signed 

(a ) in the case of an individual by the individual himself ; 
(6 ) in the case of a Hindu Undivided Family by the Manager or Karta ; 
(c) in the case of a company or local authority by the principal officer ; 
( d ) in the case of a firm by a partner ; and 

(@ ) in the case of any other association by a member of the association . 

THE SIGNATORY SHOULD SATISFY HIMSELF THAT THE RETURN IS 
CORRECT AND COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT BEFORE SIGNING THE VERI 
FICATION , 
(6 ) Rule 19A shall be deleted . 

[No. 11. 1 

S . P . LAHIRI, 
Secretary , Central Board of Revenue. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1953 
S . R . O . 299 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
1 of the Indian Power Alcohol Act, 1948 , (XXII of 1948 ) , the Central Government 
hereby specifies the 20th day of February , 1953, as the date on which the said Act 
shall come into force in the areas of Patiala and East Punjab States Union , specifed 
in the schedule hereto annexed : - 

SCHEDULE 


Tehsil 


District 


Jind 
Narwana 
Dalmia Dadri 


Sangrur 

Do. 
Mahendragarh 
[No. 48 ( 22 ) T & P / 30 ( Plant ). ] 
A . S . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 9th February 1953 
S . R .O . 300 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( b ) of Clause 
2 of the Iron and Steel ( Scrap Control ) Order , 1943, the Central Government is 
pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be made in the Notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and Supply No, I ( 1 ) - 4 (78 ) - A . 
dated the 6th January, 1951, as amended from time to time, namely : - - 

To the schedule annexed to the said Notification , the following entry shall be 
added, namely : 
" All Sub -Divisional Officers and Taluk Offlcers in the State of Orissa" . 

[ No. SC ( A ) 4 ( 83 ) . 1 
D . HEJMADI, Under Secy, 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


213 


- IV - - 


- - - 


- - 


. - 


- - . . . - . - 


- .. 


- . - . - . - . . . 


. . 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th February 1953 
S . R . O . 301, --- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Supply 
and Prices of Goods Act , 1950 (LXX of 1950 ) , and in partial modification of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry and 
Supply No . S . R . O . 503, dated the 2nd September, 1950 , in so far as it relates to the 
fixation of maximum price of ( austic soda , the Central Government hereby fixes 
the following Schedule of maximum price in respect of 503 cwts . ( gross ) of caustic 
soda , imported from West Germany per s . 6 . " HAVILDAR " , during the month of 
December 1952 , by Messrs. Mohanlal Motilal, Yusuf Building , Mahatma Gandhi 
Road , Fort, Post Box No. 226 , Bombay . 

SCHEDULE 


(2) 


(3 ) 


Varleby of | Maximum price Maximum prloo Maximum price Maximum prloe 
Rode Oustic that may be that may bol that may be that may be 

oharged by tho charged by charged by charged by a 
importer 

distributer wholesale dealer rotall dealer 


Caustio Boda 


Ro. 32-0 -0 per qwt. The prioc apooifiod The price spoolfled The prioe specifled 
Ex - godown f. o . s. ) in col. 2 PLUS in Column 3 PLUS in Column 4 PLUS 
Bombay . 

margin not on - a margin notex 
( A ) zotual railway cecding eng coeding Ro. 1- 12 - 0 
freight by goods oight per owt. per Owt, 
train or uobizal 
transport charges 
by ses from Bom . 
bay to th plaon 
of destination , and 


(b ) handling ohar 
ges not excooding 
Annso eight per 
Owt . 


NOTE . — These prices. are exclusive of local taxes such as Sales Tax , Octroi and 
other local taxes which may be charged extra. 

[No. 9- PC (1 ) / 59.] 
H . K , KAPOOR, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 14th February 1953 
• S . R . O . 302. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act , 1946 (XXIV of 1946 ), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the Cotton 
Textiles (Control) Order , 1948 , namely : 
In paragraph ( d ) of sub -cause (3 ) of clausc 21 of the said Order 
( 1) In sub - paragraph ( vii ) for the words and Agurcs “ during December 1951 

and every subsequent month , the words and figures " during the 
period December 1951 to January 1953 both months inclusive shall 

be substituted . 
( 2 ) After sub - paragraph (ix ) the following sub- paragraph shall be inserted , 

namely : - 
" ( x ) During the month of February 1953 and every subsequent month a 

quantity of yarn intended for sale in India less than 75 per cent. 
of the total quantity of yarn packed by him in that month " . 

[No. 9 ( 4 )-CT ( A )/ 53- 2. ] 
S . A . TECKCHANDANI, Under Secy . 


214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14, 1963 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


-- - - - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1953 
S . R . O . 303 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 11 of the Sugar and 
Gur Control Order 1950, the Central Government, subject to any general or special 
orders which may from time to time be issued by it in this behalf, is pleased 
to direct that the powers under clause 3 of the said order shall also be exercisable 
by the Cane Commissioner U . P . for the purpose of allowing a deduction of As. 5 
per maund in the minimum sugarcane price of Rs. 1 / 5 / - per maund Alxed under 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agri 
culture No. S . R . O . 1672, dated the 30th September. 1952 for the 1952 -53 crushing 
season to Shree Anand Sugar Mills Ltd ., Khalilabad, District Basti, in respect of 
the sugarcane purchased by them from the Mihinpurwa purchasing centre , in the 
Interest of the cane growers. 

(No. SV - 101 (1) / 52-53).) 
M , R . BHIDE , Joint Secy . 


(Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1953 
S . R . O , 304 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 4A and 4D of the 
Destructive Insects and Pests Act, 1914 ( II of 1914 ) , and in supersession of the 
rules published with the notifcations of the Government of India in the late Educa 
tion, Health and Lands Department Nos. F .50 - 13 ( 20 ) / 30 - A and F . 50 - 13 (21 ) / 39 - A , 
dated the 20th November 1940, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules for regulating the transport from the States of Punjab , Uttar Pradesh , Madras , 
West Bengal, Assam , Orissa , Himachal Pradesh and Patiala and East Punjab States 
Union to any other State in India of certain articles which are likely to carry the 
destructive insect known as San Jose Scale ( Quadraspidlotus perniciosus) and 
thereby cause infection to crop , namely : 

1. In these rules, infected area means the States of Punjab , Uttar Pradesh , 
Madras , West Bengal, Assam , Orissa , Himachal Pradesh and Patiala and East 
Punjab States Union . 
2. The articles to which these rules apply are : 
( a ) the following plants , namely akik , alder, almond , apple , apricot, beech , 

bhang, birch , crab apple , celtis , cherry , chestnut, currant, elm , 
eucalyptus, grapevine, green -gage , hawthorn , lllac , mountain ash , 
mulberry , oak , peach , pear , persimmon , poplar, plum , quince , raspberry , 

rose , strawberry , walnut And willow , 
(b ) the following plant materials namely buds, cuttings , scions , grafts , bulbs, 

leaves , seedlings , tubers and rhizomes of the plants specified in clause 

( a ) and 
( c ) any articles used in packing or wrapping up any of the plants or plant 

materials mentioned in clause ( a ) and ( b ) . 
Provided that these rules shall not apply to the fruits of the plants mentioned 
in clause ( a ) . 


3. No article to which these rules apply shall be transported from any infected 
area to any other area in India 

( a ) by means of letter or sample post or by air ; 
(b ) by road except by such route as may be specified by the Government of 

any State to which the articles are transported or by any of the 

routes specified below ! 
(1) Chamba , via Dalhousie , Pathankot; 
( il ) Mandi 

1 . For Kulu yolley and Inner and Outer Seraj via Oot to Kulu . 

2 . For the plains via Baijnath and Palanpur; 
(ill) Suket - 

1. Vla Bilaspur road to Rupar . 
2 . Via Mandl and Baijnath to Palanpur; 


Part II - Sec , 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 

218 

. - = - - = 
(iv ) Balsan - Via Fagu and Simla ; 
( v ) Jubbal - Via Theog to Simla ; 
(vi) Koti - Via Koti-Simla ; 
( vii ) Kumrarsain 

1 . Kotgarh to Simla . 

2 . Via Fagu to Simla . 
( viii ) Bhagat 

1 . Via Kalka and Ambala . 

2 . Via Simla ; 
( ix ) Bashahr — Via Kotgarh to Simla . 
( x ) Hill tracts of Patiala East Punjab States Union , 

1 . Via Simla , 

2 . Via Kalka - Ambala , 
(xi) Bangalore - Madras -Road; 
(xii) Mysore - Satyamangalam Road ; 
(xiil) Mysore-Tellicherry (Manantody); 
(xiv ) Mysore-Gudalur Road . 

(XV ) Mysore - Canzanore ( Vla Virarajendrcpet ). 
(c ) or by a railway or inland stcam vessel unless the consignment is 

accompanied by a certificate in the form set forth in the schedule 
annexed to these rules and signed by the authority specified therein . 

SCHEDULE 
This is to certify that the living plants / plant materials included in the consign 
ment of which particulars are given below were thoroughly examined on . .. .. ....... .. .. 
( date ) by. . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .. . ... . (name and designation of official) a duly authorised 
Official of the.. ... ... .. ... .... . .. . (name of Department) . . ...... .. ... ... and the consignment 
including the packing covered by this certificate has been adequately treated and 
fumigated with Hydrocyanic acid gas immediately prior / subsequent to inspection 
and made free from living San Jose scale. 
Date of examination and fumigation .... 
Particulars of consignment..... ........ 
No. and description of packages.. ................. 
Distinguishing marks ..... ...., 
Description of living plants or plant materials ... 
Exported by ........ 
Name and address of the consignee ... ..... 
Signature of certifying authority ...... 
Designation .. .... . . .... 
* NOTE . — Tho above certificate should be signed 
( a ) in the Punjab , by the Entomologist, Punjab Agricultural College , 

Ludhiana or such other officer as may be authorised by the Director 

of Agriculture , Punjab in this behalf ; 
( b ) in the Uttar Pradesh by the Entomologist to the Government of Uttar 

Pradesh or such other officer as may be authorised by the Government 

in this behalf . 
( c ) in the State of Madras by the Entomologist to the Government of Madras, 

Coimbatore or such other officer as may be authorised by the State 

Government in this behalf . 
( d ) in the State of West Bengal by the Entomologist 1o the Government of 

West Bengal or such other officer as may be authorised by the State 

Government in this behalf ; 
( e ) in the State of Assam by the Director of Agriculture or such other officer 

as may be authorised by the State Government in this behalf ; 


(e) in the State,esta fram bar the Direito de ser aericulture the entry to the of 


216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


[PART II - Sec . 3 . 


( f ) in the State of Orissa by the Director of Agriculture or such other offlcer 

as may be authorised by the State Government in this behalf ; 
( g ) in Mysore by the Director of Agriculture or such other officer or officers 

As may be authorised by the State Government in this behalf ; 
( h ) in Himachal Pradesh by the Director of Agriculture or such other officers 

as may be authorised by the Government of the State in this behalt ; 
(i) in Patiala East Punjab States Union by the Agricultural Entomologist or 

such other officer as may be authorised by the Patiala East Punjab 
States Union Government in this behalf. 

[No. F .6 - 7 / 52 - Dte.I (I) . ] 

R . L . MEHTA , Dy. Secy . 
S . R . O . 305. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 
of the Destructive Insects and Pests Act , 1914 ( II of 1914 ), and in supersession of 
the rules published with the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Education Health and Lands Department No. F . 50 - 13 (21) / 39 - A , dated the 20th 
November 1950 , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for 
the purpose of regulating the Import into India of certain articles which are likely 
to carry the destructive insect known as San Jose Scale ( Aspidiotus pernicious) 
and thereby cause infection to crops , namely : - 


1. In these rules, " infected area " means the State of Jammu and Kashmir . 
2 . The articles to which these rules apply are : 
( a ) the following plants , namely , akik alder , almond , apple , apricot, beech , 

bahng , birch , crab - apple , çeltis , cherry , chestnut, currant, elm , 
eucalyptus, grape vinę, green gage , hawthorn , lllac , mountain -ash , 
mulberry , oak , peach , pear , persimmon , poplar , plum , quince , 

raspberry , rose , strawberry , walnut and willow ; 
(b ) the following plant materials namely , buds, cuttings , scions, grafts , 

bulbs , leaves, seedlings, tubers , and rhizomes of the plants speci 

fled in clause ( a ) , and 
( c ) any article used in packing or wrapping up any of the plants and plant 

materials mentioned in clauses ( a ) and ( b ) . 
Provided that these rules shall not apply to the fruits of the plants men 

tioned in clause ( a ). 
3 . No article to which these rules apply shall be imported from the infected 

area into India by land except by the Srinagar- Jammu-Pathankot road . 


SCHEDULE 
This is to certify that the living plants / plant materials included in the con 
Aignment of which particulars are given were thoroughly examined on . .. .. ... 
(date ) by .. ... .. .. .. . .. . (name and designation of official) . .. .. ... .. .. .. . . .. .. a duly 
4uthorised official of the .. .. ... .. .. ... ...... .. (name of Department). .. .. .. . . . .. ... and that 
the consignment including the packing covered by this certificate has been ade 
quately treated and fumigated with hydrocyanic acid gas immediately prior ) sub 
sequent to inspection and made frec from llving San Jose Scale , 


. .. . . . . . . . 


Date of examination and fumigation 
Particulars of consignment.... ... .... 
Number and description of packages .......... 
Distinguishing marks . .. 
Description of living plants or plant materials.. ..... ... 
Exported by .. 
Name and address of the consignee .. .. ... .. 
Signature of certifying authority " .. .. . 
Designation . . 
* NOTE :- The above certificate should be signed -- 


( a ) in Kashmir , by the Director of Agriculture , Kashmir or such other officer 

or officers as may be authorised by the Kashmir Government in this 
behall. 

[No. F .6 - 7 / 52 -Dte. I - ( II ). ] 
R . L . MEHTA , Dy. Sęcy . 


PART II — SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


217 


- .. . - .. .. 


New Delhi, the 6th February 1953 
S . R . O . 306 . - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause ( 3 ) of Clause 1 of 
the Foodgrains (Licensing and Procurement ) Order , 1952 , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the Government of India Notification in the Ministry of Food 
and Agriculture No. S . R . O . 2128 , dated 30th December, 1952, shall be amended ss 
follows, namely , 

( 1 ) After the words " said Borough and Cantonment" in the entry against item 
No, 10 of the Schedule to the said Order the following words shall be added , namely , 
" and Shahpur , Madhavpur- Vadgaon and Angol." 

[ No . CG .604 ( 51) / 52- I.) 
P . G . ZACHARIAH , Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi, the 14th February 1953 
S . R . O . 307, — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 2 ( a ) of the Vegetable 
Oil Products Control Order , 1947, as amended by the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture Notification No , S . R . O , 2040 , dated the 22nd 
December , 1951, I hereby authorise the officers specified in Col. 2 of the Schedule 
hereto annexed in respect of their respective jurisdiction in the State mentioned 
in Col, 1 to exercise, subject to such directions as may be issued by me from time 
to time in this behalf, the powers of the Vegetable Oil Products Controller for 
India under clause 13 of the said Order . 


EDULE 


State 

( 1 ) 


Designation of Authority 


(2 ) 


West Bengal 

1. Joint Director of Agricultural 

Marketing . 
2 . Superintendents of Agricultural 

Marketing . 
3. District Agricultural Marketing 
Oficers . 

[ No, 2 - VP ( 2 ) / 53 . ) 

M . R . BHDE , 
Vegetable Oil Products Controller for India . 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1953 
S . R . O . 308 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951, read with section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) , the Central Government hereby appoints ( 1 ) Shrimati 
Durgabai Deshmukh and (2 ) Shri Kalasaheb Kalelkar as members of the Central 
Board of Film Censors with immediate effect vice Shrimati Lilawati Munshi and 
Dr. Amaranatha Jha retired , 

[No. 5 / 12 / 52 - FII. ] 
S . R . O . 309 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of 
section 8 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951 , namely : 
In the said Rules 

1. To rule 27B , the following further proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided further that the Regional Officer may with the prior approval 

of the Chairman dispense with the examination of the Alm under 

rule 24 . " 
2. To sub -rule (2A ) of rule 32 , the following provişo shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that where the fresh certificate is granted without examination 

of the Alm under the second proviso to rule 27B , the fees charged 
shall be one -tenth of the fees charged for the examination of a 
Alm under this sub -rule ." 

[No. 6 / 1 / 53 -FII-C . C .R . A ./ 6 .] 


218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 


(PART II — SEC , S 


- - 


- - - - - - - - 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1953 
S . R . O , 310 , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Cinema-- 
tograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby exempts up , 
to the 31st May, 1953, from the operation of rule 27B of the Cinematograph (Cen 
sorship ) Rules, 1951, the exhibition of films certificates in respect of which were 
granted more than five years prior to the date of such exhibition , 

[ No , 6 / 153 -FII. 1: 

C . B . RAO , Dy. Secy . 

- .. . - - . . 
MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

· New Delhi, the 4th February 1953 
S . R . O . 311, - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of 
section 11 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1933 (XXVII of 1933), the Central 
Government after consulting the Medical Council of India hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the First Schedule to the said 
Act, namely : 

In the said Schedule after the entry relating to the University of Delhi, the 
following entry shall be inserted , namely : — 
Cauhati Univorsity Bachelor of Medicina 

M . B . B . S . (Gauhati). 
And Bachelor of 

[ Thin will be the recognised 
medical qualifiontion only 
wlieni grunted after tho 
20th May , 1952 )" , 

[No . F . 17 -9 / 52 -MI. ) 
K . BIHARI, Asstt. Secy . 


Surgery 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 
New Delhi, the 318 January 1953 


S . R . O . 312 . — In pursuance of the provisions of rule 3 of the Insurance Claims 
Board Rules , 1952, the Central Government hereby constitutes the Insurance : 
Claims Board , consisting of the following persons, namely : 

Representative of the Ministry of Law , 
1. Shri K . Y . Bhandarkar , Government Solicitor , Ministry of Law (Chairman ). 


Representative of the Ministry of Rehabilitation . 
2 . Shri K , P . Mathrani, I.C . S . Joint Secretary , Ministry of Rehabilitation , 

Representative of the Ministry of Finance . 
3. Shri A . Rajagopalan , Controller of Insurance , Ministry of Finance. 

Representatives of the General Insurance Council . 
4 . Shri T , K . Desai C / o New India Assurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay . 
5 . Mr. William Gilmour Wylie C / o Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society , 
Calcutta . 

Representative of Displaced Persons . 
6 . Shri Tek Chand , M . P ., New Delhi, 

II 


It is hereby notifled that Shri K . P . Mathrani, I. C . S ., Joint Secretary, Ministry 
of Rehabilitation , Central Secretariat , New Delhi, will act as the Secretary of the 
aforesaid Insurance Claims Board to whom all communications intended for the 
Board may be addressed . 

[No. 68 ( 24 ) / 51- Prop . ] 
D . R . KOHLI, Dy. Secy . 


- 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1953 

219 

= = 
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi. the 4th February 1953 
S . R . O . 313 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Omce Act , 
1898 (VI of 1898 ), the Central Government hereby directs that the following fur 
ther amendments shall be made in the Indian Post Omce Rules, 1933 , namely : 

In rule 68 of the said Rules, the words " and of any parcel addressed to Aden " 
shall be omitted . 

K . V . VENKATACHALAM , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1953 
S . R . O . 314 , -- In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 28 of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of 
the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No. 31 - M .II (5 ) / 34 , 
dated the 22nd May, 1937 , namely : - -- 

In the said notification in the tables of scales , in the entry in the Arst column 
against item No , ( 17), for the words and brackets " Oil (mustard ) daily ” the words 
and brackets " OD (mustard or other edible varieties ) dally ” shall be substituted . 

[No. 4 -MS ( 1) / 83.] 
K . NARAYANAN . Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1953 
S . R . O . 315 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 17 
of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 ( 

26X of 
1962 ), and cause ( 1 ) ot article 258 of the Constitution of India , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby directs that the powers exercisable by it by or under sections 6 
and 7 , by or under section 8 except clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) and by or under 
Section 13 of the said Act shall be exercisable also by the Special Land Acquisi 
tion Officer , Nasik , in respect of properties situated in the area within his jurisdic 
tion provided that the powers under section 8 of the said Act in so far as it relates 
to fxina of compensation by agreement shall not be exercised except with the 
previous concurrence of the Central Government. 

[No . 1820 -WII / 53 . ] 
K . K . SHARMA, Dy. Secy. 


..- 


.. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 6th February 1953 
SHO . 318 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 57 of the Mines Act. 
1952 (XXXXV of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
further amendments shall be made in the Indian Metalliferous Mines Regulations. 
1926 . the same having been prevlonely published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) 
of Section 59 of the said Act : 

In sub - regulation ( 2 ) of regulation 1 of the said Rogulations, for tho words " the 
State of Mysore and Jammu and Kashmir " , the words " The State of Jammu And 
Kashmir but do not apply to the gold mines in the State of Mysore" shall be 
substituted . 

[No. M -41 (34 ) 82 . ] 
P . N . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


220 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 14 , 1963 


PART 11 - Sec . 87 


New Delhi, the 9th February 1953 
S . R . O . 317 . - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of section 8 of the umployees State 
Insurance Act , 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, No . SS . 121 (51) , dated the 7th July , 1951, 
Damely S 

In the said notification , for item (4 ) , the following item shall be substituted , 
namely 
" (4 ) Shri S . Neelakantam , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour ," 

[No. S8 .121 (51). ] 


S . R . O . 318 . - In pursuance of sections 3 and 4 of the Employees State Insurance 
Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the follow 
ing further amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour, No . SS .21 ( 2 ) ( 2 ) , dated the 8th September , 19 
namely : 

In the sald notification , for itern (7), the following item shall be substituted , - 
namely 
" ( 7) Shri S . Neelakantam , Deputy Secretary to the Government of India , 
Ministry of Labour ," 

(No. SS.121 (83).] 
K . N , NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 9th February 1953 
S . R . O . 319 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 18 
of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1962 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri A , B . Desal, Personal Assistant to the Collector of 
Ahmedabad , to be ar Inspector for the whole of the State of Bombay for the pur 
poses of the said Act and of any scheme made thereunder in relation to factories 
engaged in a controlled Industry or in any industry connected with a mine or an 
ollfeld . 

[No. P .F . 516 ( 10 ). ) 
N . M . PATNAIK , Dy. Secy, 


4 


PIV 


I 


1 . 


- 


- 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1953 


