1%*$ tfo tf -222 


REG ISTT.RED No. D. 222 


9TRH it 

&he (Baxettc of <3rcdia 

ni iW i f trei iVfl 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Ro 17] h£ fin'eft, STfa^TT, TH 2 3, 19G6/^5TT?^ 3, 1888 

No. 17] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, APRIL 13, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


f h 3Tft r fVpsr A srRft 3 fsrett fe ^ ?miT ?m tt ?w i 

Separate paging- Is given to this Part in order that it may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


. Ars , 

*H I d ti 

NOTICE 

-ft^I f'T% NPM % rnimW vTjPT^ 7 #r, 1 966 IT TTrfsFT faT ’Pt I 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Ejarforiiinaiy vute j-tTlisl ed vp to tie 7th 
April, 1966: — 


Issue No. and Date Issued by Subject 

No. 


58 G-S.R. 490, dated 1st April, Ministry oj Labour, Em- The Andhra Pradesh Coal Mines 
tq( 56 . ployment & Rehahilila- Provident Fund (First Amend- 

tion. meat) Scheme, 1966. 


G.S.R. 49t, dated tsl April, 
1966. 


Do. 


The Rajasthan Coal Mines Pro- 
vident Fund (First Amendment) 
Scheme, 1966. 


Cr.S.R. 492, dated 1st April, 
1966. 


Do. 


The Coal Alines Provident Fund 
(First Amendment) Scheme, 
1966. 


59 G.S.R. 493, dated 1st April, Ministry of External Affairs Application of the provisions of 
1966. Extradition Act, T962, other 

than Chapter III • thereof, 
to the United States of America 
w.c.f. ist day of April, 1966. 


( 649 ) 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 [Past II- 


IssUe No, and Date Issued by Subject 

No. 


G.3.R. J34, dated 1st April, 
1966. ' 

Ministry of Finance. 

Extending of the provisions of 
Chapter VII of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944 to tyres for 
motor vehicles. 

G.S.R- 535, dated 1st April, 
1966. 

Do. 

Provisions relating to the re- 
moval of goods, without pay- 
ment of duty from one ware- 
house to another. 

G.S.R. 536, dated tat April, 
1966. 

Do. 

Amendment In the notification 
No. CER-8(28)/56, dated, 5th 
January, 1957. 

G.S.R. 537, dated rst April, 
1966. 

Do. 

Exempting hoisery being cotton 
fabrics from the duty leviable 
thereon, specified in the 

table. 

G.S.R. 538, dated 1st April, 
1966. 

Do. 

Exempting hosiery being cotton 
fabrics from tne duty of 
excise payable thereon as speci- 
fied in the table. 

G.S.R. 539, dated jth April, 
1966. 

Do. 

Exempting High Carbon Steel 
Sheets from the additional 
duty which is leviable there- 
on. 

G.S.R. 540, dated 6th April, 
1966. 

Ministry of Petroleum 
and Chemicals. 

The Kerosene (Fixation of Ceil- 
ing Prices) Order, 1966. 

G.S.R. 541, dated 6th April, 
1966. 

Do. 

The Kerosene (Price Control) 
Cessation Order, 1966. 

G.S.R. 542, dated 7th April, 
1966. 

Ministry of Law. 

Amendment in the notification 
No. G.S.R. 866, dated 15th 
June, 1964. 


3DT. f*T% W&VZTVH STftPTt 5IFTFFT SDPUfi, eTTFST, fie#! % fTHT 

rrttrrsr it 5w tfr i % Tra jt TDmfr % ^Tft dTCtar 

?r i o far % *rtar ^ ^n%t i 

Copies of. the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted ao as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes. 



Sue. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 65 ! 


3-3TOH (j) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (i) 

(njrr RMW-g wt »ifw) wnr ottt »A iwH 1 sfr (*nr ^ wunotf wi 

w)f v) mf'irorriWF ffRT *nj f*r^wr ^ anWtr wfr wrtf fn4 

n4 Humw f^DT (fWf 1 urnirnr wir ^ sngV, ^-T-fcuur anf^ ufar fRir t) i 

General Statutory Rules (including orders, bye-laws etc. of a general 
character) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central Authorities (other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories). 


MINISTRY OF LAW 
(Department of Legal Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1966 

G.S.R, 585. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of article 299 of 
the Constitution, and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Law No. G.S.R, 1161 dated the 1st December, 1958, the President 
hereby directs that the undermentioned contracts and assurances of property made 
in the exercise of the executive power of the Union may be executed on his behalf 
as follows: — 

1. In the case of all Ministries/Departments of the Central Government includ- 
ing their attached and subordinate offices, the Cabinet Secretariat, the President’s 
Secretariat, the Prime Ministers’ Secretariat, Union Public Service Commission, the 
Election Commission, Central Vigilance Commission and the Secretariat of either 
House of Parliament;- — 

A. 1. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Govern- 
ment servants or the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles, or houses or for 
building houses, or for medical attendance and treatment, or for festivals, marriages, 
funerals or other ceremonies or for relief against floods, etc., or advances of pay 
and travelling allowance on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to persons pro- 
ceeding on deputation abroad, or advances in respect of the Travel Concession 
Scheme during regular leave; where the advance is sanctioned by a Department of 
the Central Government, by an officer empowered to authenticate orders and other 
instruments under clouse (2) of article 77 of the Constitution and in other cases by 
the authority sanctioning the advance. 

Provided that such contracts and other instruments may also be executed in the 
cases of the Central Public Works Department and Directorate General Supplies 
and Disposals by the Director of Administration in the respective Departments, in 
case of the Central Water and Power Commission by the Secretary to the Commis- 
sion In the case of the Central Vigilance Commission by an under Secretary in the 
Commission and in case of the Intelligence Bureau by the Joint Director (E) or 
Deputy Director (E) at Headquarters and in the case of Defence Accounts Depart- 
ment by ‘the Controllers of Defence Accounts or, In their absence, by the Joint 
Controllers of Defence Accounts. Provided further that in the case of an Indian 
Mission or post in a foreign country, such contracts and instruments may also be 
executed by the head of the Mission or post. 

Explanation. — The term “Head of a Mission or Post” includes a High Commis- 
sioner, a Deputy High Commissioner, an Assistant High Commissioner, a Commis- 
sioner, an Assistant Commissioner, an Ambassador, a Minister, a Representative, a 
Charge d’ Affairs, a Consul-General, a Consul and a Trade Agent. 

2. Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided In 
rented buildings (1) for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms (II) for the protection of 
conveyances belonging to the staff working in such rented buildings and (iii) for 
co-operative stores/socleties/banks/canteens run by employees* associations/socie- 
tles; by the Mead of Department/ Office which is in occupation of the buildings and 
is responsible for the payment of municipal taxes etc. 

3. Indemnity Bonds relating to conveyance and transport at Government expense 
of families and personnel effects of government servants who die while in service, 
by the Head of Office under whom the deceased government servant last served. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 196G/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [P^kt It— 


4. Contracts and other instruments relating to the— 

(i) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, maga- 

zines, periodicals etc. 

(ii) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, store and 

machinery; 

by the Head of Office concerned. 

5. (i) Instruments relating to the re-assignment, of insurance policies assigned to 

the Governor General before the 2Gth January, 1930 and the President 
on or after that date in accordance with the rules regulating the 
Workmen’s Contributory Provident Fund from which the policy is 
financed; by the Accounts Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules 
of the Fund. 

(ii) Instruments relating to the assignment of Insurance policies in favour of 
President in accordance with rules regulating the Workmen’ Contribu- 
tory Provident Fund from which the policy is financed; by the Accounts 
Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund. 

B, 1. Surety bonds relating to the grant of pension to Government servants or 
provisional pension to displaced Government servants; by the authorities sanction- 
ing the pension or provisional pension. 

2. Security Bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants and/or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the dua accounting for money 
or other property received by virtue thereof, by the Head of office concerned. 

C. Pledge and release of Postal Savings certificate and Post Office Savings Bank 
Accounts as security by only those Gazetted Officers of the Central Government 
who for due performance of their duties, ave required to accept and release secu- 
rities. 

D. All guarantee undertakings to pay water & electric charges to the Delhi 
Municipal Corporation /New Delhi Municipal Committee on behalf of the govern- 
ment servants (Including gazetted officers) etc. employed in the Central Govern- 
ment; by the Head of Office concerned. 

E, All instruments appointing attorneys and Counsel; by the officers empowered 
to authenticate orders & other instruments under clause (2) of article 77 of the 
Constitution. 


II. IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF COMMERCE: 

1. (i) All contracts and Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance 
or carriage of materials, stores, machinery; 

(Ii) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and all 
service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 
duties by Government servants; 

by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce. 

2 Leases of houses, land or other immovable property; bp a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce. 

3. Miscellaneous contracts and Instruments; by a Deputy Secretary to the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Commerce. 

4 All contracts in respect of participation in an International Fair/ Exhibition 
or organisation of an Indian Exhibition abroad in a country where there is no 
Indian Mission; by the Officer heading the Exhibition team from India. 


5 All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance sub- 
scriptions lor the purchase of newspupers, magazines, periodicals etc., by Deputy 
Director ( Commercial Publicity) and Director (Lommercal Publicity) and a. De V£tV 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce, the Chi et 
Controller of Imports and Exports, the Director General of Commercial Intelligence 
and Statistics Jute Commissioner, Deputy Director (Executive and Fuiaucial) in 
the office of the Jute Commissioner, Secretary Tariff Commission and Secretary 
Forward Markets Commission, and Director of Research, Central Sencultural 
Research Station. 

a m Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers or exporters In connection 
fl. (i) Bon ^ th an l “ e ^ 1 a earonc . e or export ot goods lor the due fulfilment of condi- 
tions Imposed on the importers or exporters; 


, , I, , , 1 , : r * n> , trailer of Imports and Exports, Joint Chief Controllers , Imports 

and Exports Deputy Chief Controllers of Imports and Exports, Import Trad e Con- 
trolled Exports Trade Controllers, Controllers of Imports and Exports and Jute 
Com hissioner. 



Sec. 5(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 653 


(ill Bonds and guarantee submitted by licencees in connection with the 
licences lor Import or installation of textile machinery and automatic 
looms for the due fulfilment of the conditions relating to the export of 
textile goods imposed on the licencees; 

by an Under Secretary , Branch Secretariat ( Textiles ) Ministry of Commerce. 
Bombay, Joint Textile Commissioner. Deputy Textile Commissioner, Industrial 
Adviser and e.r-offlcio Joint Textile Commissioner and Director in the office of the 
Textile Commissioner, Bombay. 

(liij Agreements with Mills in connection with the allotment of cotton; 
by the Joint/ Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, Bombay. 

All contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with the appoint- 
ment of a commercial Advertising Agent or Agents for securing com- 
mercial advertisements for publication in the Weekly Bulletin of 
Import and Export trade control; 

by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 

7. All contracts and assurances of property relating to matters falling within 
their administrative jurisdiction; by the Textile Commissioner or the Joint Textile 
Commissioner, Industrial Adviser or the Cotton Adviser or the Directors of the 
Textile Commissioner's Organisation. 

8. Contract for work relating to the printing of Forward Markets Bulletin; by 
the Secretary, Forward Markets Commission, Bombay. 

9. (i) Security bond in connection with the employment of Cashier of the Tariff 

Commission; by the Secretary, Tariff Commission. 

(ii) Service Agreements; by the Administrative Officer in the Tariff Com- 
mission. 

10, (i) Security bonds in connection with the employment of Cashier and other 
subordinates of the Department of Commercial Intelligence and 
Statistics, Calcutta, who are required to handle Government money in 
the course of their official duty; 

(ii.i Contracts or other instruments for the purchase, supply and conveyance 
of furniture and stores, in the Department of Commercial Intelligence 
and Statistics, Calcutta; 

by the Director General of Commercial Intelligence and Statistics. 

II. Security bonds ol Cashiers and other Government servants or their sureties 
to ensure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 
property received by virtue thereof; by the Secretary, Forward Market Commission. 

12. (i) Security Bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bonds; for due performance of 

their duties by store-keeper, and cashiers of the Central Sericulturai 
Research Station, 

(ii) Service agreements; 

by the Director of Research, Central Sericulturai Research Station. 

13. (i) Agreements with the Gujarat Electricity Board for the supply of Elec- 

trical Energy, payment of charges on account of consumption of Elec- 
trical Energy used in the Kandla Free Trade Zone and also for pay- 
ment of cost of changing of one circuit of the II KV Town feeder and 
laying second circuit and the cost of high tension lines to be laid 
within the Zone area for industrial purposes; 

(ii) Lease Deeds for allotment of plot(s)/Shcd(s) for setting up Industries in 
the Kandla Free Trade Zone; 

by the Administrator, Kandla Free Trade Zone, Gandhidham ( Kutch ). 

III. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE; 

A. General Instruments and Contracts: — 

1. Orders and other instruments made and executed in the case of Ministry of 
Defence Secretariat, Inter-Service Organisations and Armed Forces Headquarters. 

(i) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, hire, repair, binding, 
polishing, painting, washing supply, clearance and conveyance or 
carriage of materials including water, electricity, furniture, stores, 
machinery; by an Under Secretary /Deputy Secretary the Govern- 
ment of India, in the case of the Ministry of Defence, by the Chief 
Administrative Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer, 



654 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23. 1906/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pa,*t ll- 


Ministry of Defence in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter- 
Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and Estab- 
lishment in the case of Air Headquarters , 

(lil Contracts relating to the disposal of waste paper, obsolete and waste 
stores; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case 
of the Ministry of Defence; by the Chief Administrative Officer, Min- 
istry of Defence, in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter-Service 
Organisations, by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Head- 
quarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and Establishment 
in the case of Air Headquarters. 

(ill) Contracts lor supply of labour and thelas; by an Under Secretary to 
the Government of India in the case of the Ministry of Defence, by 
the Chief Administrative Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative 
Officer Ministry of Defence, in the case of Army Headquarters and 
Inter-Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of 
Naval Headquarters and the Deputy Director of Organisation and 
Establishment in the case of Air Headquarters. 

(lv) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern- 
ment servants; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India 
in the case of Ministry of Defence; by the Chief Administrative Officer , 
or the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer, Ministry of Defence, in 
the case of Army Headquarters and Inter-Service Organisation; by the 
Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Headquarters and the Deputy 
Director of personnel (Airmen) in the case of Air Headquarters. 


(v) Undertaking guarantee to the payment of water and electric charges 
to the New Delhi Municipal Committee etc., in case of default, with 
respect to building allotted by Government on behalf of the Govern- 
ment servants (.including Gazetted Officers) employed in the Ministry 
of Defence Secretariat, Armed Forces Headquarters and Inter-Service 
Organisations, who axe in occupation of Government accommodation; 
by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case of the 
Ministry of Defence; by the Officer Supervisor in the Chief Adminis- 
trative Officer’s office in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter- 
Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and by the S.O. II/Officer Supervisor concerned in the 
case of Air Headquarters. 

(yi) (a) Leases agreements relating to hiring of houses for the Defence 
PooL catering and renting of shops and other establishments m 
Hostels/Messes in the Defence Pool; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer. Ministry of 
Defence, and 


(b) Agreements relating to catering in tiffin rooms, licensing of fruit/ 
betel stalls and cycle stands in offices; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer or the Assistant Chief Administrative Officer, Ministry of 
Defence, in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter-Service 
Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval Head- 
quarters and by the Camp Commandant, Air Headquarters in the 
case of Air Headquarters. 


(vii) Agreements, surety bonds and mortgage bonds in respect of advances 
granted to civilian Government servants employed m the Ministry 
of Defence Secretariat, Armed Forces Headquarters and Inter-Service 
Organisations: — 

(a) For purchase of cycles; by an Under Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Defence; by the Officer Supervisor m the 
Chief Administrative Officer Supervisor in the Chief Administra- 
tive Officer' 3 office in the cose of Army Headquarters and Inter- 
Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in the case of Naval 
Headquarters and by the Director of Accounts in the case of Air 
Headquarters. 


Cb) For purchase of motor vehicles; by an Under Secretary to the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Defence; by the Assistant Chief 
Administrative Officer, Ministry of Defence, in the case of Army 



ate. 8(i)] The gazette of India : April 23, 19««/vaisaeha b, 1888 555 


Headquarters and Inter-Service Organisations; by the Naval Secre- 
tary in the case of Naval Headquarters and by the Director of 
Accounts in the case of Air Headquarters. 

(c) From. General Provident Fund for building houses and contracts for 
the reconveyance of property bo assigned or mortgaged in favour 
of Government; by an Under Secretary to the Government of India 
in the case of Ministry of Defence; by the Assistant Chief Adminis- 
trative Officer , Ministry of Defence in the case of Army Headquar- 
ters and Inter-Service Organisations; by the Naval Secretary in 
the case of Naval Headquarters and by the Deputy Director of Per- 
sonnel ( Airmen ) in the case of Air Headquarters. 

(viit) All service agreements; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the case of Ministry of Defence; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer, Ministry of Defence or the Assistant Chief Administrative 
Officer in the case of Armed Forces Headquarters and inter-Service 
Organisations. 

(ix) All contracts and other instruments relating to the sale and disposal of 
surplus stores of value not exceeding Rs. 5,000 in a single category 
and salvage and scrap without any limit; by the Officer -in-Charge, 
SPDC, Bombay, 

1. Agreements with clerks, copyists, draughtsmen, accountants, cashiers, agents 
and store-keepers whom the officer is empowered to appoint; by the Commission- 
ed or Gazetted Officer. 

3. Contracts for the supply of hot weather establishments and other temporary 
labour; by the Officer Commanding a fully self-accounting unit, the Officer Com- 
manding a Sanatorium , the Officer-in-Charge of a hospital, the Officer Command- 
ing/Commandant Air Force Station or Wmg/College or the Air or other Officer 
Commanding a Command or Group. 

4. Contracts tor petty supplies to hospitals; by Officer-in-Charge of hospitals. 

5. Cinema and external conservancy contracts; by the Officer Commanding / 
Commandant of a Station/College/Unit. 

6. Contracts for the services of shaving and hair-cutting in respect of JCOs/ 
ORs/Boys/NCs(E) and corresponding ranks in the Air Force in Units in India; 
by the Officers Commanding Units. 

I. Contracts for the services of washing of clothes in respect of JCOs/ORs/ 
Boys/NCs(E) and corresponding ranks in the Air Force in Units in India; by the 
Officers Commanding Units. 

8. Agreements entered into with all civilian gazetted staff employed under the 
administrative control of the Ministry of Defence excluding those under the Direc- 
tor General of Ordnance Factories; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Defence. 

9. Agreements entered into with all civilian non- gazetted staff, unless other- 
wise specified in this notification; by the officers authorised to appoint the persons 
concerned , 

10. All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus and obsolete 
stores (other than controlled items of iron, steel exceeding Rs. 300 in book value 
in each category and textiles) located in India and belonging to the Defence Ser- 
vices not exceeding Rs. 5,000/- in value in a single category, and waste 
stores, that, is, salvage and scrap, without any limit; by an Under Secretary 
to the Government of India in the case of Ministry of Defence, Officers Command- 
ing, Supply Depots, Officers Commanding, Advance Base Supply Depots, Officer 
Commanding, Heserve Supply Depot , Officer Commanding Railhead Supply De- 
pots, Officers Commanding, Reserve Petroleum Depots, Officers Commanding, 
Advance Base Petroleum Depots, Officers Commanding, Petroleum Contract Unit, 
Officers Commanding Supply /Petroleum Depots, Officers Commanding, Petroleum 
Platoons, Officers Commanding, Railhead Petroleum Depots, Officer Commanding, 
Animal Transport Regiments Companies, Director of Remount and Veterinary 
Services, Assistant Director, Remount and Veterinary Services, Director of Military 
Farms, Deputy Director of Military Farms. OfficerAn-charge, Military Farms, 
Manager Young Dry Stock Farm, Incharge, Military Farm Depot, Incharge, Fodder 
Bailing Depot, Officer Incharge ( not a Junior Commissioned Officer) Supply 
Points/Supply Sub-Depot, Master General of the Orddnce, Director of Ordance 



656 THE gazette OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/ VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pa,Rt II- 


Services, Brigadier (Technical Stores), Deputy Director of Ordnance Ser- 
vices, Assistant Directors of Ordnance Services , Deputy Assistant Directors of 
Ordnance Services, Staff Captains of Ordnance Services, Commandants of Ordn- 
ance Depots, Brigadiers Army Ordnance Corps, Command Headquarters, Com- 
manders, Army Ordnance Corps, Chief Ordnance Officer, Officers Commanding, 
Deputy Commandants of Ordnance Depots, Officers of the rank of Major ana 
above of the Army Ordnance Corns, Chief Superintendent/ Superintendent/Chief 
Inspector /Inspector /Assistant Inspector/Officer-in-charge in the case of Establish- 
ments under Defence Production Organisation, Officer-in-charge of R & D Estab- 
Itshment/Laboratory /Institute, Engineer -in-Chief , Director of Engineer, Stores 
and Plant, Chief Engineers of Commands, Chief Engineers, Naval Works, Air 
Force Works, Explosive Factory Project , Tank Factory Project and. Chief Engineer 
J & K, Deputy Chief Engineer where specially authorised by Chief Engineers, 
Commanders Wor ’ ~ ~ ' ineers, (including those Commanding 

Engineer Parks), < ' ; • ■ linear Stores Depots, Senior Barrack 

Stores Officers, t . Engineers, Assistant Garrison Engi- 

neers, Barrack Stores Officers for the Indian Army, Director General, Armed 
Forces Medical Services, Deputy Director General ( Equipment & Stores ), Assistant 
Director General ( Provision ) and Officers Commanding, Armed Forces Medical 
Stores Depot, Commodore-in-charge Cochin, Commodore East Coast, Vishakliapat- 
nam the Resident Naval Officer Madras and Calcutta, the Commodore Superinten- 
dent, Naval Dockyard, Bombay Base Victualling Officers, Indian Navy, Naval 
Stores Officer/Deputy Naval Stores Officer / Assistant Naval Stores Officer of Naval 
Store Depots , the Commanding Officer, INS. Valsura Jamnagar, Director of equip- 
ment/the concerned Joint Director of Equipment/the concerned Deputy Director 
of Equipment Air Headquarters, Commanding Officers of Air Force Depots Sta- 
tions/Units, the Director General, Ordnance Factories, Additional Director Goneral, 
Ordnance Factories or the Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories, or the 
Assistant Directors General, Ordnance Factories or the General Manager of Project 
Officer Ordnance and Clothing Factories, or Managers or Deputy Managers or 
Assistant Managers of Ordnance and Clothing Factories, General Managers, Heavy 
Vehicles Factory or Manager /Deputy Manager Heavy Vehicles Factory. 

11. Contracts and other Instruments relating to advances for the purchase of 
motor cars, motor cycles and houses or for building houses: — 

In the case of advances granted, to the members of the Armed Forces including 
civilians paid out of Defence Services Estimates: — 

(a) In the case of Army Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Army Headquarters and Inter-Service Organisations, 
Delhi/New Delhi: by the Chief Administrative Officer or the Assis- 
tant Chief Administrative Officer, Ministry of Defence. 

(ii) in the case of Formations/Units other than those .given in (i) above 

and excepting items (iii) to (vii) below; by the Officer Command- 
ing, Unit/Forpnation/Station. 

(iii) in the case of Ordnance Units and Establishments; by Commandants/ 

Chief Ordnance Officer! / Officers Commanding. 

(iv) in the case of EME Units and Establishments; by Commandants/Officers 

Commanding. 

(v) in the case of MES Formations; by Chief Engineers of Commands, 

Deputy Chief Engineers when specially authorised by Chief Engi- 
neers and Commanders Works Engineers. 

(vi) in the case of Engineer Centres and Units; by Commandants of Engi- 

neer Groups/Commander Engineers; and 

(vii) in the case of College of Military Engineering; by the Commandant of 

the College of Military Engineering. 

(b) In the case of Naval Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Service Officers in Naval Headquarters and I.N.S. India; 
by the Commanding Officer, ffN.S. India. 

<(ii | in the case of civilians in Naval Headquarter; by the Nairnl Secretary; 

and 



:Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAI3AK.HA 3, 1888 657 


(iii) in the case of Shore Establishments; by Flag Officer, Bombay, Comma - 
d ore-in-Charge . Cochin, Commodore, East Coast, Vishakhapatnam, 
Commodore Superintendent, I.N. Dockyard and Commanding Offi- 
cers, Shore Establishments. 

(c) In the case of Air Force Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Air Force Stations/Units (in respect of Service Officers, 
C.G.O.’s and other entitled civilians employed in Units) ; by Officer 
Commanding; and 

(ii) in the case of civilian personnel employed at the Air Headquarters; 
by the Deputy Director, Personnel ( Airmen ) Air Headquarters. 

(d) In the case of Establishmcnts/Laboratories under the control of the 

Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence; by the Directur/Deputy 
Director of Administration, R & D IIQ. Officer in charge of Establish- 
ment/ Laboratory. 

(e) In the , case of establishments under the control of the Director General 

of Inspection; by the DIAf Dtl&D(G)/ D of V/DP1L for advance for 
house building purposes and the Chief Supdt. /Chief Inspector /Inspec- 
tor/ Assistant Inspector / Officer-in-Charge for advance for the purchase 
of motor cars and motir cycles. 

(f) In the case of Heavy Vehicles Factory; by the General Manager. 


12. Contacts and other instruments relating to printing in General or my 
other operation or jobs connected with printing, so far os authorised, from time 
to time, under the relevant rules/ orders /instructions on the subject: — 

(a) In the case of Army Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Army Headquarters and Into: -Service Organisations, 
Delhi, New De.hi; by the Chief Administrative Officer, or the Assis- 
tant Chief Administrative Officer, Ministry of Defence. . 

(ii) in the case of Formations /Units etc,, other than those given in (i) 

above and excepting items (iii) to (viii) below; by the Commandant/ 
Officer Commanding, Unit/ Formation/ Station/ Establishment. 

(iii) in the case ol' C>. finance Units and Establishments; by the Com- 

mandants /Chief Orclnmce Officer /Officers-iu-Char ye. 

(iv) In the case of E.M.E. Units and Establishments; by Commandants/ 

Officers Commanding. 

(v) in the case of M.E.S. Formations; by C.E./C.\V.E.-in-Conimavcl. 

(vi) in the case of M.E.S, Regimental Units: by the Commandants ol 

Engineer Groups/Commauder Engineers. 

(vii) in the case of M.E.S, Instructional Establishments; by Commandant 
of G.M.E. 

(viii) in the case of School of Signals. Mhow; by the Commandant, School 
of Signals, Mhow. 

(b) In the case of Naval Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Naval Headquarters, Delhi/New Delhi; by Naval Sec- 
retary; and 

(li) in the case of Shore Establishments; by Flag Officer, Bombay, Com- 
modore-in-Charge, Cochin, Commodore, East Coast, Vishakhapat- 
nam, Commodore Superintendent, I.N. Dockyard and Commanding 
Officers, Shore Establishments. 


(c) In the case ol Air Force Formations: — 

(i) in the case of Air Headquarters- by the Deputy Director of Organi- 

sation and Establishments; ana 

(ii) in the case of Air Force Station s/Uni Is by Officer Commanding . 



658 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966/VAISAKHA S, ib»h (f*st II— 


(d) In the case of EstabUshments/Laboratories under the control of the 

Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence; by the Officer-in-charge 
of Establishment/ Laboratory/ Institute. 

(e) In the case of establishments under the control of the Director Genera] 

of Inspection; by the Chief Supdt./Chief Inspector /Inspector /Assistant 
Inspector / Offlcer-ln-charge. 

(f) In the case of Heavy Vehicles Factory, by the General Manager. 

13. Agreements entered into with parents/guardians of boys admitted to the 
Sainik School, Dehra Dun; by a Deputy Secretary to the Govermr^ent of India in 
the Ministry of Defence or the Principal, Sainik School, Dehra Dun. 


14. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances from the Defence 
Services Officers Provident Fund for the purchase or building of houses; by the 
Director or the Deputy Director, Personnel Services, in the case of Army Officers 
the Director of Supply Branch in the case of IN Officers and the Director of 
Accounts, Air Headquarters in the case of Air Force Officers. 

IB. Agreements In respect of the foreign civilian technicians employed in the 
Air Force; by the Indian Ambassador/High Commissioners stationed in the res- 
pective countries, either with their companies or direct with them. 

18. Contracts and other instruments required to be made in the United King- 
dom, the United States of America, the U.S.S.R. and France relating to the pur- 
chase, supply and conveyance of carriage of materials, stores and machinery need- 
ed for the Defence Services of India; by the Military /Naval/ Air Adviser to the 
High Commissioner tor India, London, Air Attache in the Embassy of India in 
Paris/Washington, Military and Naval/ Air Attaches in the Embassy of India in 
Moscow in so far as such contracts and other instruments relate to and fall with- 
in their respective jurisdiction. 

B. Contracts and other instruments for Services and Establishments under the 
Chief of the General Staff: — 

1 . Agreements entered into with parents/guardians of Cadets selected for ad- 
mission to the National Defence Academy for initial training with a view to being 
commissioned in the Army, Navy or Air Force. 

2. All contracts and other instruments relating to washing dyeing of mess 
linen and sports kit of cadets; by the Commandant, National Defence Academy. 

3. All contracts and agreements relating to tailoring arrangements at the 
National Defence Academy /the Indian Military Academy; by the Commandant, 
National Defence Academy /Indian Military Academy, 

4. All contracts with the Cantonment Board, Poona; by the Commandant, 
National Defence Academy, Kharakvasla. 

5. Agreements entered into with parents/guardians of Gentlemen Cadets selected 
for admission to Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, Officer Training Schools, 
Madras and Poona; by the respective Commandants of these institutions. 

6 . All contracts and agreements for supplies for Lok Sahayak Sena Camps; by 
Officer-Commanding L£S Training Team. 

C. Contracts and other instruments for services under the control of the Quar- 
termaster General: — 

1. Contracts for the supply of labour; by the Quartermaster General Command/ 
Area /Independent sub -Area Commanders or Embarkation Commandants. 

2 Contract* for the Army Service Corps (including the Mechanical Transport 
Services) : — 

(a) Contracts for supplies and transport, service* for the Army Services 

Corps (including requirements of other services and Departments) and 

for services to, and purchase from the Army Service Corps; 

(b) contracts for conveyance of Military passengers on hill roads by motor 

vehicles; 

(c) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; and 

(d) agreements, other than thoee entered into India, with civilian employees 

for a specified period of service in the Army Service Corps; by the 



Sic, S(l)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKIIA 3, 1888 659 , 


Quartermaster General, General Officers Commanding-in-Chief , Com- 
mands. Corps Commander, General Officers Commanding Are as/Divi- 
sions/ Communication Zones, Commanders, Independent Sub-Areas/ 
Brigades Stations (*in respect of Hired Transport contracts only) 
Commander Corps/ Artillery /Commander Artillery/Commander Army 
Group Artillery, Director of Supplies and Transport, Brigadiers, Army 
Service Corps, Commands, Deputy Directors oj Supplies and Trans- 
port Corps, Officer Commanding Army Service Corps/Baitalion, Com- 
manders, Army Service Corps Areas /Communications Zones, Indepen- 
dent Sub-Areas, Deputy Assistant Director of Supplies and Transport , 
Independent Sub-Areas/Sub-Areas /Brigades, or Assistant or Deputy 
Assistant Directors of Supplies or Supplies and Transport at Headquar- 
ters of various Army Formations. 

(e) Contracts for messing; by the Quartermaster General, General Officers 
Comrnanding-in-Chief, Commands, General Officers Commanding, 
Areas /Divisions /Communications Zones, Commanders, Sub-Area/ 
Brigade Area Independent Sub- Area/ Independent Brigade Group,. 
Heads of Institutions Presidents of the Selection Boards. 

3. Contracts and other instruments for the Remount and Veterinary Services ol 
the Remounts and Veterinary Corps; — 

(it Agreements with shippers for landing horses and mules in India; by the 
Quartermaster General: 

(ii) (a) Contracts for undertaking the sale of the Government animals reject- 
ed from the Remounts and Veterinary Otarps; 

(b) contracts for the occupation or leasing of land; and 

(c) contracts for the sale of hides of animals died/destroyed in Remount' 
Units; by Officers Commanding of Remount Depots, Equine Breeding 
Studs or District Remount Officers of Breeding Areas. 

(lii) (a) Contracts for forage or stores; and 

(b) contracts for petty works at Remount Depots, Equine Breeding Studs 
■ and Breeding Area; by the Director of Remounts and Veterinary 
Services, Officers Commanding of Remount Depots, Equine Breeding 
Studs or District Remount Officers of Breeding Areas. 

(iv) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 
security; by the Officers Commanding of Remount Depots Equine 
Breeding Studs or District Remount Officers of Breeding Areas. 

4. Contracts and other instruments for the Military Farm Services: — 

(i) Agreements entered into in India with civilian non-gazetted employees 
for a specified period of service in the Military Farms; by the Quarter- 
master General- 

(U) Leases of land, purchases or leases of harvesting or cutting rights and 
renewal of such leases, where the period of each lease or each separate 
renewal does not exceed: — 

(a) five years; by the Director of Military Farms. 

(b) twelve months' by the Deputy Director of Military Farms/ Assistant 

Director of Military Farms. 

(iil) Contracts for supplies and services to, and purchases frorn, the Military 
Farms; by the Quartermaster General, the Director of Military Farms, 
or the Assistant Director of Military Farms. 

8. Contracts for conservancy services entered with: — 

(1) Cantonment Boards, Municipalities for conservancy arrangements; and 

(il) private individuals for the supply of special conservancy/transport/ 
animals; by officer Commanding Stations. 



4S6o the gazette of India : April 23, 1906/vaisakha s, 1888 [Part u- 


6. Leases and agreements relating to sale of grazing and grass cutting rights on 

the military lands including Ordnance, EME and Establishments under Defence 
Production Organisation situated outside Cantonments not placed under the manage- 
ment of the Military Estates Officer and disposal of usufruct from trees on 
military land including Ordnance, EME and TD establishments situated outside 
Cantonments; by the ' "" " " Station in respect of vacant Army lands 

and by the Officer ■' 1 ends of Army Establishments in respect 

of lands in their occupation, 

7. Contracts for local purchase of Canteen Stores including liquor/beer required 
for the Canteen Services; by the Chairman, Board of Administration, Canteen 
Stores Department ( India). 

8. Contracts with shipping companies for conveyance by sea of military passen- 
gers and stores; by the Quartermaster General. 

9. Indemnity bonds with the Bombay Port Trust in regard to the Clearance of 
unclaimed/unconnectcd Defence Services Stores found in Bombay Port Trust 
Warehouses; by the Embarkation Commandant , Bombay. 

10. Contracts with air companies for conveyance by air of military passengers 
and stores; by the Quartermaster General. 

11. Contracts for operation of Institutes/Canteens and Regimental shops by the 
Contractors as under: — 

(i) Stations contracts; by the OC Station, .Administrative Commandant, or 
Station Staff Officer. 

(ii) Unit contracts; by the OC Unit. 

(hi) Garrison Institutes (Hill Stations or Depot) contracts; by the OC Hill 
Station or Depot. 

12. Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
buildings for the protection of conveyance belonging to the Government servants 
working in such buildings; by the Officer Commanding the Unit or the Head of 
the establlshment/installation. 

13. Contracts lor cycle stand; by the Officer Commanding Unit/IIead of Estab- 
lishment/ Installation, 

D, Contracts and other instruments for Services and Establishments under the 
control of the Master General of Ordnance: — 

1. Contracts and other instruments for the Corps of Electrical and Mechanical 
Engineers: — 

(i) Contracts for local purchase and/or manufacture of stures for EME 

Workshops and for repair’s to vehicles or other equipments; by the 
Master General of the Ordnance , the Director of Electrical and Mech- 
anical Engineering, Commandant EME Centre and Commandant EME 
School, and Commandant/ Officer Commanding / Offlcer-in-Charge, EME 
Workshops of all types. 

(ii) Agreements entered into with all civilian non-gazetted staff other than 

those enumerated In item 2 under Head ‘A’ above, employed under the 
administrative control of the Director of Electrical and Mechanical 
Engineering; by the Officer-in-Charge Electrical and Mechanical Engi- 
neers, Records or the Commandants/Officers Commanding Electrical 
and Mechanical Engineering Units authorised to appoint the person 
concerned. 

(iii) Contracts for the local purchase of Periodicals/Joumals on technical 

Subject of EME concern; by Brigadiers EME, Commander Central 
EME Workshop Group, Commander EME Technical Services Group, 
Commandant EME Centre DDs EME Corps, CsEME, DADSEME In- 
dep Sub-Area Bde, EME Indep Bde, and Commandants/ Officer Com- 
manding of EME Workshops of all types of the rank of Major and 
above. 

2. Contracts add other instruments for the Army Ordnance Corps: — 

(i) Contracts for purchase of Ordnance stores; by the Master General of 
the Ordnance ; Director of Ordnance Services and Deputy Director of 
Ordnance Services, Army Headquarters; Deputy Directors cf Ord- 
nance Services, Headquarters Corps; Commanders Army Ordinance 



"Mfc. 9(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1838 


Corps, Headquarters Division: Assistant Directors of Ordnance Ser- 
vices, Headquarters Areas, Brigade Ordnance Officers, Independent 
Brigades/Commandant/Chief Ordnance Officer /Deputy Commandants/ 
Senior Provision Officers / Deputy Chief Ordnance Officers /Officers 
Commanding/Local Purchase Officers, Ordnance Depots'/Field Parks/ 
Maintenance Companies and AOC Centre. 

(il) Contracts for washing of textiles, sawing of timber, re-tlnning articles 
of Ordnance Supply, manufacture of Ordnance Stores and repairs to 
garments, tentage, screens, cooling chicks course and fine and other 
ordnance stores; by the Master General of the Ordnance. Coimnand/ 
Area Independent Sub- Area/Station Commanders or Officers of the 
Army Ordnance Corps. 

(iii) Agreements entered Into with all civilian non-gazetted staff other than 
those enumerated in item 2 under Head ‘A’ above employed under 
the administrative control of Director of Ordnance Services; by the 
Officers -in-Charge Army Ordnance Corps, Records or Commandants/ 
Chief Depots Officers/Officers Commanding Ordnance Depots autho- 
rised to appoint the person concerned. 

(Iv) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given 
as security; by the. Director of Ordnance Services or Officers Com- 
manding Army Ordnance Establishments/Vnits. 


E. In the case of the Military Engineer Services and in the case of the Naval 
Dockyard Expansion Scheme, Bombay: — 

1. (a) all Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 
of materials, stores, machinery and hiring of accommodation; 

Ob) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connect- 
ed with buildings including demolition and site clearance of buildings, 
bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, docks and harbours and em- 
bankments and Aerodromes and all instruments relating to the cons- 
truction of water, sewage and electrical works and the erection of 
machinery; 

(c) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works and 

contracts; 

(d) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 

(e) leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or roadsides, for fishing in a 

canal, for the cultivation of land leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes, and leases of water power and quarries and instru- 
ments relating to the sale of grass, trees or other produce on road- 
sides or in plantations; 

(f) leases of houses, land or other immovable property not being land or 

other immovable property entrusted to the management of the Mili- 
tary Estates Officer, provided that the rent reserved does not exceed* 
Rs. 5,000/- a month; 

(g) all instruments connected with reconveyance of property given as 

security; 

(h) instruments connected with the collection or framing of tools at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communications provided by the State- 
Government; 

(1) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 
timber passing into a canal; by the Engineer-in-Chief, Director Gene- 
ral of Works, Director General, Naval Dockyard Expansion Schejme, 
Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, when specially authorised 
by Chief Engineers, Commanders Works Engineers, Garrison Engi- 
neers, Sub Divisional Officers if they are Assistant Executive Engi- 
neers or Officers Commanding Engineer Stores Depots or General 
Officers Comman ding entrusted with the execution of M.E.S . Works , 

(j) agreements with temporary and permanent non-gazetted civilian per- 
sonnel whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; by 



,662 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2S, 1966/VAISAKHA it, 1886 PjfcjMf -tD*- 


the Engineer-in-Chief, Director General, Naval Dockyard Expansion 
Scheme, Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, when specially 
authorised by Chief Engineers, Commanders Works Engineers, Garri- 
son Engineers, Sub-Divisional Officers if they are Assistant Executive 
Engineers or Officers Commanding, Engineers Stores Depots, or Gene- 
ral Officers Commanding entrusted with the execution of M.E.S- 
Works. 

(k) all instruments relating to the appointment of auctioneers for demoli- 
tion and clearance of site; 

(i) by Chief Engineers for auctions (exceeding R 3 . 5 lakhs in MRP value); 

(ii) by Commanders Works Engineers for Auctions (upto Rn. 8 lakha In 

MRP value) . 

2. Agreements for private connections to Military Engineer Service water sup- 
ply systems in military stations; by the Garrison Engineer or Sub-Divisional Offi- 
cer if he is an Assistant Executive Engineer. 

3. Agreements for non-military connections to Military Engineer Services 
electrical installations; by the Garrison Engineer or Sub-Divisional Officer if he is 
an Assistant Executive Engineer: 

4. (a) Agreements or memoranda of terms for taking bulk supply of electric 
energy or water from an outside source for military buildings when the annual 
■payment in each t case: — 

(i) does not exceed Rs. 10,000/-; by Commanders Works Engineers : 

(ii) exceeds Rs. 10,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/-; by Chief Engi- 

neers; arid 

(iii) exceeds Rs. 1,00,000/-; by the Engineer in-Chief /Director General of 

Works. 

(b) Agreements or memoranda of terms of giving bulk supply of electric 
energy or water to non-military consumers when the annual recovery 
in each case: 

(i) does not exceed Rs, 10,000/-; by Commanders Works Engineers; 

(ii) exceeds Rs. 10,000/- but does not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/-; by Chief En- 

gineers; and 

(111) exceeds Rs. 1,00,000/- by the Engineer-in-Chief /Director General of 

Works. 

5. Agreements entered into in India with civilian mechanics and others for a 
epecifled period of service in the Military Engineer Services; by the Engineer -in- 
Cheif. 

F. Contracts relating to the Indian Navy and Indian Troops Services: 

1. (a) contracts for conveyance of troops, military stores, etc.; and 

(b) charter parties ("hire of transport for conveyance of troops; etc.); 

by the Chief of the Naval Staff, in his capacity as Director, Indian Sea Transport 
Service for Sea Transport Service ( Indian ) or by his Deputy in this capacity. 

2. Agreements for permanent and temporary employment other than the em- 
ployment of civilian gazetted officers; by the officers authorised to appoint the 
persons concerned. 

3. Contracts for building powered and sailing crafts, barges dock equipment, 
and conversion of Naval Ships and auxiliaries; by the Director of Naval Construc- 
tion, Naval Headquarters, 

4. All contracts relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage or 
miscellaneous naval stores, air stores and equipment, materials, provisions made 
nery, medical comforts and coal, sailmaking auction, sale business, Sawing of tim- 
ber, sewing of Uniform clothing and initial alteration thereto, removal of coal 
ashes and garbage from Indian Naval Ships and shore establishments repair 
maintenance and overhaul of weighing machines, scraping and cleaning of boi- 

'lers of Indian Ships, scraping, chipping and painting of underwater fittings of 



Sic. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 663 

Indian Naval Ships, docking and repair to I.N. ships, docking and repairs to 
craft and boats, repairs or renewal of machinery fitted in ships, craft and boats, 
repairs to ships equipment; weapons, etc., bunkering and removing coal, remov- 
ing and disposing of coal dust by sale or otherwise, washing, repairing and 
restuffing troops redding, cleaning and painting troops decks, stevedorage, hire 
of motor vehicles and petrol pumps deck covering of Indian ships, supply and re- 
pair of furniture and execution of all electrical, mechanical and building works 
in Naval Dockyard, Bombay, cobbler contracts, grass cutting contracts, washing 
of sick bay linen, removal of saw dust, and letting on hire of naval craft 
equipment; by the Chief of the Naval Staff or the Director of Supply Branch, 
Naval Headquarters or the Flag Officer, Bombay or the Staff Supply Officer, 
Bombay or the Cornmodare-in-charge Cochin or the Staff Supply Officer, Cochin 
or the CojnmOdore Superintendent, Naval Dockyard, Bombay or the Commodore 
East Coast, Vishakhapatnam or the Staff Supply Officer, Vishakhapatnam or the 
Naval Officer-in-Charge, Goa or the Naval Officer -in-charge Calcutta or the 
Resident Naval Officer, Madras/Port Blair and in case where the Sea Transpo 
Service is concerned, by the Chief of the Naval Staff, in. his capacity as Director , 
Indian Sea Transport Service, for Sea Transport Service (Indian) or his Deputy 
in this capacity, or by the Sea Transport Officers at Calcutta and Madras. 

5. Contracts relating to the overtop bunkering of Indian Naval Ships in Indian 
Posts; by the Chief of the Naval Staff, the Flag Officer, Bombay, the Commodore- 
in-charge, Cochin, the Commodore East Coast, Vishkhapatnam, the Naval Officer - 
tn-Charge, Goa or the Resident Naval Officer at the Port. 

0. (a) Agreement entered into with the parents/guardians of Cadets selected 
for admission to the Engineering and Electrical Branches of the Indian Navy and 
drafted to I.N.S. Venduruthy; by the Commodore-in-Charge, Cochin. 

fb) Agreements entered into with parent's/guardians of apprentices selected 
for training in the Naval Dockyard; by the Commodore Superintendent Naval 
Dockyard. 

(c) Agreements entered into with commercial firms for the hire of ammunition 
barges; by the Naval Armament Supply Officer, Bombay. 

(d) Agreements entered into with commercial firms for the handling and storage 
of explosives imported Into the port of Bombay; by the Naval ArmamJent Supply 
Officer, Bombay. 

7. Contracts for local purchase of stores; by the Flag Officer Commanding Indian 
Fleet, the Commodore-in-charae, Cochin, the Commodore East Coast, Vishakhapat- 
nam, the Naval Officer-in-Charge, Calcutta, the Resident Naval Officer, Madras, 
the Senior Naval Store Officer. Bombay, the Naval Store Officer, Purchase Depart- 
ment, Bombay, the Assistant Naval Store Officer, Purchase Department, Bombay, 
Naval Store Officer, Cochin, the Deputy Naval Store Officer, Cochin, the Asstt. 
Naval Store Officer, Cochin, the Officer-in-Charge, Naval Store Depot, Vishakha- 
patnam, the Assistant Naval Store Officer, Vishkhapatnam. the Nai'al Armament 
Supply Officers, Bom.bay and Vishnkhapatnam and the Deputy Armament Supply 
Officer, AXwaye, the Officer-in-Charge, S. P. D. C. (IN) Bombay and the Base 
Victualling Officers, Cochin and Vishakapatnam, the Officer-in-Charge . Indian Naval 
Physical Laboratory, Cochin and the Officer-in-Charge, Naval Chemical and Metal- 
lurgical Laboratory, Bombay and Gun Mounting Officer, Bombay as the Officer- 
in-Charge of G ■ E. Store Depot, Bombay. 

8. Contracts for daily labour, repairs to furniture (including recaning of 
chairs'), purchase and conveyance of stores and painting work at Naval Head- 
quarters; by the Naval Secretary. 

9. Indemnity Bonds for the clearance of air freighted stores; by the Flag 
Officer, Bom-bay, the Commod, or e-in-Charge. Cochin, the Commodore East Coast, 
Vishakhapatnam, the Senior Naval Store Officer, Bombay and Naval Store Officer, 
Cochin. 

10. Contracts relating to purchase of Scientific equipment; by the Director of 
Scientific Research (Navy). 

11. Contracts for washing of boat and sickbay linen of the Indian Naval Ships; 
by the Flag Officer, Comm.anding Indian Fleet or the Fleet Supply Officer. 

12. Agreements entered into agents for the sale of charts and publications of 
the Naval Hydrographic Office; by the Chief Hydrographer, Indian Navy. 

13. Direct purchase of Stores; by the Officer-in-Charge Direct Purchase Cell, 
Bombay. 



664 TfiE GAZETTE of INDIA APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 p> A « T II- 


14. Indemnity Bond from Civilian personnel of the Navy who travel in Gov- 
ernment Motor and Water Transport; by the Commanding Officer of Ships /Esta- 
blishments and Heads of Establishment in the Navy. 

16 i £5? short term agreement for supply of fresh provision; by the Resident 
Naval Officer, Port Blair. 


tt “^tracts not exceeding .£ 875 in value for the purchase of stores in the 

United Kingdom on behalf of the Government of India; by Deputy Naval Adviser 
to the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom. 


G. Contracts for the Air Force ; 

1. (a) Contracts for the recovery of exploded practice bombs or expanded 
bullets from Air Force bombing ranges; by the Officers Commanding, 
Air Force Station. 

(b) Contracts and other instruments relating to tailoring, laundry, dry- 

cleaning, repair and maintenance of Air Force equipment, conservancy 
services, messing and canteen; by the Officer Commanding a Depot , 
Station Wing, the Commandant of an Air Force College O. C. Air 
Force, Khamar'm or President, Air Force Selection Board, the Air or 
other Officer Commanding a Command , the Air Offiaer-in-Charge, 
Maintenance or the Air Offlcer-in-Charge Administration, Air Head - 
Quarters. 

(c) Contracts and other instruments relating to supply of authorised equip- 

ment, e.g. condiments, distilled water, brooms, sweeping and other 
equipment authorised to be purchased locally at Air Force Stations: 
by the Officer Commanding / Commandant a Depot, Station, Wing / 
College Air Force Hospital, Unit (Seif Accounting for both cash and 
equipment), the Air or other Officer Commanding a Command, the 
Air Offlcer-in-Charge, Maintenance, the Air Officer-in-Charge Admini- 
stration, Deputy Director of Organisation and Establishment, Director 
of Equipment, Director of Medical Services (Air), Director of Ac- 
counts, Deputy Director, Education, Deputy Director , Meteorological 
Service 3 or Camp Commandant, Air Headquarters. 


2. Agreements entered into with the parents/ guardians of the Cadets or Officers 
selected direct for pre-commission training at Air Force Station, Hyderabad or Air 
Force Flying College, or Air Force Administrative College, or Air Force Technical 
College; by Officer Commanding / Commandant of the Station/ College concerned as 
the case may be. 


H. Contracts for the Medical Department: — 

1. Agreements entered into witn nursing officer of the Ml.itary Nursing Services; 
by the Director General Armed Force Medical Services, 

2. Agreements entered into with all civilian non-gazetted staff employed in the 
Armed Forces Medical Stores Depots and Armed Forces Transfusion Centre under 
the administrative control of the Director General, Armed Forces Medical 
Services; by the Director General Armed Forces Medical Services', O.C., Armed 
Forces Medical Stores Depots. Bombay, Lucknow. Delhi Cantt.. and Poona and 
O.C. Armed Forces Transfusion Centre, Delhi Cantt. 

3. Agreements entered into with ail Civilian non-gazetted staff under the Admi- 
nistrative control of the Directors of Medical Services; by Directors of Medical 
Services (Army), (Navy) and (Air force). 

4 Agreements entered into for the printing of posters, etc., for health propa- 
ganda; by the Directors of Medical Services (Army), (Navy) and (Air Force). 

5. Contracts for local purchases of stores; by the Deputy Director General Armed 
Forces Medical Services (Equipment and Stores ); the Assistant Director General. 
Armed Forces Medical Services (Pruv.), the Deputy Assistant Director General, 
Armed Forces Medical Services (Border Roads), the Officers Commanding, Armed 
Forces Medical Stores Depots, Bombay, Lucknow, Delhi Cantt, and Poona; the 
Officer Commanding, Armed Forces Transfusion Centre, Delhi Cantt. 

6 Agreements entered Into with Medical Cadets (Stipendiary students admitted 
to the M.B.B.S. course at Armed Forces Medical College) or their guardian/ parents; 
by the Armed Forces Medical College, Poona. 



Ssc. 3(1)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAI5AKHA 8 , 1888 665 


I. Contracts and Instruments relating to land anti other immovable property other 
than houses inside Cantonments, 

1. Leases licences and surrender deeds — 

(a) of land belonging to the Ministry of Defence the executive management 

of which has not been entrusted to the Cantonment Board under the 
Cantonment Land Administration Rules, 19,87; by the Military Estates 
Officer. 

(b) of land belonging to the Ministry of Defence the executive management 

of which has been entrusted to the Cantonment Board, under the 
Cantonment Land Administration Rules, 1937; by the Cantonment 
Executive Officer. 

2. Licences for a period not exceeding one year at a time, for grass cutting and 
grazing rights, cultivation, fishing, playing of boats and removal of sand, gravel, 
earth, sones, usufruct, trees and the like produce on lands belonging to the Ministry 
of Defence: 

(a) the executive management of which has not been entrusted to the Can- 

tonment Board under the Cantonment Land Administration Rules. 
1937; by the Military Estates Officer. 

(b) the executive management of which has been entrusted to the Canton- 

ment Board under the Cantonment Land Administration Rules. 1937; 
by the Cantonment Executive Officer. 

3. Deeds relating to sale and transfer of lands held under (a) old grants and 
(b) on lease; by the Military Estates Officer 

4. All documents relating to proprietary rights of Government in land; by the 
Military Estates Officer. 

5. Agreements for private connection to water supply systems in Cantonments 
under the control of the Military Engineer Services or the Public Works Depart- 
ments; by the Garrison Engineer, Sub-Divisional Officer, if he is an Assistant 
Executive Engineer-in-Charge of an Independent Sub-Division or a Public WorkM 
Department Divisional Officer. 

6. All contracts, deeds and other Instruments relating to supplies and services 
to, or purchases from the Canteen Stores Department (India); by the Chairman, 
Board of Administration, Canteen Stores Department (India). 

7. Leases of lands and buildings belonging to the Canteen Stores Department 
(India); by the Chairman, Board of Administration, Canteen Stores Department) 
(India). 

8. Leases of houses appropriated by Government under the provisions of the 
Cantonments (House Accommodation) Act. 1923; by the Officer Commanding the 
Station, 

J. Agreements relating to lease, purchase or sale of Immovable Property (land 
and buildings) : 

1. Agreements for the purchase or sale of Immovable property on behalf of 
Defence Services; by the Military Estate Officer. 

2. Agreements for the sale of assets belonging in the Ministry of Defence on 
hired, requisitioned or Government land but not including the land nr other 
Immovable Pr opei Iv. entrusted to the management of the Military lands and 
Cantonment Service by the Military Eshfr Officer. 

3. Agreements w leases for the hire of lands, buildings or other Immovable 
Property for lh- err poses of the Defence Services; by Assistant Director, Military 
Lands and Cantonments, Military Estate Officer or Assistant Military Estates) 
Officer/holding independent charge of 11 sub-circle. 

4. Agreements tor the purchase or sale of immovable property (lands and 
buildings) on behalf of the Canteen Stores Department, (India); by the Chairman, 
Board of Administration, Canteen Stores Department (India). 



666 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1960/VAISAKHA 9, 1888 [Pa** H~ 


K. Contracts and Instruments relating to property, other than houses, land 
and other Immovable property outside Cantonments, belonging to the Ministry of 
Defence and entrusted to the management of M.L. & C. Service — 

(a) Leases, licenses and surrender deeds; and 

(b) Licenses for a period not exceeding one year at a time, for grass cut- 

ting and grazing rights, cultivation, fishing, plying of boats and the 
removal of sand, gravel, earth, stones, usufruct, trees and the like 
produce on lanus Uoioiuung lo Government; bp the Military Estates 
Officer or Assistant Military Estates Officer holding independent 
charge of a sab-circle. 

L. Contracts and instruments relating to the Hastings Military Land Scheme, 
Calcutta: — 

All Contract's and instruments relating to lands; by the Collector of the District 
of the 24 Parganas. 

M. In the case of the National Cadet Corps: — 

(1) Contracts for the purpose of pu-\-hastng of cloth, tailoring of uniforms, 
repairs of boots and shoes, washing and repairs ol uniforms cturned 
by Cadets; by the Ccvunandcis Headquarters Circles Cadet Corps, 
Commandant NaPounl Cadet Corps Training Centre, Kamptec, Com- 
manding Officer, l.iV.'j. V c -nJuruthli. and the Officer Commanding No. 
2 Air Forrs Flying College, Air Force Station, Jodiipur. 

(iil Contracts for the puiposo of purchases of cloth, tailoring of uniforms, 
repaiis of boots and sh<>cs, washing and repairs of uniforms returned 
by cadets; by Die Director /Deputy Director, National Cadet Corps, 
uplo a limit of ils. 10,000/- in each case. 

N. (a) Contracts and other instruments for Services and Establishments under 

the control of the Scientific. Adviser to the Minister of Defence and 
Director General, Defence Research & Development. 

(i) All contracts, deeds and other instruments other than leases of houses, 
land ik other immovable property for Research & Development 
Eslablishments/Laboratories/ Institutes; by the Scientific Adviser 
to the Minister of Defence and Director General, Defence Research 
and Development Dir pc tor / Deputy Director of Administration and 
Offlcer-in-Charge, Establishment/ Laboratory /Institute. 

(11) Leases of houses, land and other immovable property, purchases or leases 
of harvesting and fishing rights on the Estate of the Proof and Ex- 
perimenta' Establishment Balasore; by the. Superintendent Proof and 
Experimental Establishment, Balasore. 

(lit) Agreements entered into with civilian non-gazetted staff other than 
those enumerated in item 2 under Head ‘A’ above employed under 
the Administrative control of the Scientific Adviser to the Minister 
of Defence and Director General, Defence Research & Development; 
by the Officer-: n-Chargc Establishment /Laboratory /Institute. 

<iv) All contracts and instruments relating to th e local purchase of stores 
and supply of material; by Second-in-Command/ the Store Officer/ 
Administrative Officer. 

(v) Ixjases and agreements, relating to pale of crazing and grass culling 

rights on the military lands outside cantonments not placed under 
the management of the Military Estate Officers and disposal of usu- 
fruct from trees cm Military Lands; by the Officer-ln-'Jliurye. in 
respect of lauds in their occupation. 

(vi) All instruments Connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

Security; by the Scientific Adviser to the Minister of Defence and 
Director General Research & Development, Director/ Deputy Direc- 
tor of Administration and Officer-in-Charge Establishment/ Labora- 
tory /Institute. 

(vii) Security bonds relating to Fellowships, Stipends and Training; by 
Offitcer-in-Charge, Establishment/ Laboratory / Institute. 

<viil) Security bonds for due perform an r of their duties by Government 
servants; by the Scientific Acini: r to the Minister of Defence and 



SBC. 8 (f)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 667 


Director General Defence Research & Development, Director /Deputy 
Director of Administration and Officer-in-Charge, Establishment/, 
Laboratory / Institute. 

O. Orders and other instruments made and executed in the case of Ordnance 
and Clothing Factories under the Directorate General of Ordnance Factories in 
the Minisiry of Defence: — 

(1) (a) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and con- 
veyance, or carriage of materials Including electricity, gas and water, 
Stores, machinery etc., and also making of garments and other 
articles of clothing; 

(bl security bonds for due performance and completion of work; 

(c) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; 

(d) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 

nected with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants 
and with foundations and housing of machinery and electric and 
sanitary installations; 

(el leases of houses, land or other immovable property; 

(f,l all leases and agreements relating to sale of rights ( e.fj grazing rights, 
grass cutting rights, selling rights within the Factory Estate, etc.); 
and 

(g) all instruments relating to advances for the purchase of motor cars/ 
motor cycles sanctioned by the Director-General of Ordnance 
Factories to the Officers and staff serving in Ordnance and Clothing 
Factories or in this office; by the Director General , Ordnance Fac- 
tories, Additional Director General, Ordnance Factories. Deputy 
Director General, Ordnance Factories, Assistant Director General, 
Ordnance Factories, General Managers, Joint General Manager. 
Deputy General Managers and Project Officers of Ordnance and 
Clothing Factories or SOLE ( Factories ). 

(11) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
servants; by the Director General. Ordnance Factories. Deputy 
Director General, Ordnance Factories, Assistant Directors General, 
Ordnance Factories. 

(iii) All service Agreements; by the Director General, Additional Director 
General /Deputy Director General, Ordnance Factories. 

(lv) All contracts and instruments relating to the supply of materials utpo 
the value of Rs. 40(1/-; by the Managers or the Deputy Managers of 
Ordnance and Clothing Factories. 

(v) Contracts for local purchase of stores: by the Managers, Deputy 

Managers and Assistant Managers of Ordnance and Clothing Factories. 

(vl) Contracts for purchase of controlled categories of iron and steel; by 
the Director General Ordnance Factories, Additional Director General, 
Ordnance Factories, Deputy Director General Ordnance Factories, 
Assistant Director General Ordnance Factories, Technical Staff 
Officers and Officer Supervisors of the DGOF Headquarters and 
General Managers, Joint General Manager, Deputy General Managers, 
Managers, Deputy Managers and Assistant Managers 0 } Ordnance 
and Clothing Factories. 

P, Contracts and other instruments for services and Establishments under the 
Control of Director General of Inspection. 

(1) All contracts deeds and other instruments other than leases of houses, 
land and other immovable property; by the Director General of Ins- 
pection, the DR&D(G), D.I. (Army), Director of Vehicles, (D.P.l.L.) 
D.S.P. (Navy), Chief Superintendent. Chief Inspector or the Offlcer- 
in-Charge of Establishments. 

(U) Agreements entered into with civilian non-gazetted staff other than those 
enumerated In item 2 under Head ‘A 1 above employed under the 
administrative control of the DR&D(G) the D.I. (Army.), Director of 



068 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28. 1950 yvAISAKHA ,3, JP^it Bi- 


vehicle, Director of Production and Inspection (L), and DSP (Navy) 
by the Directors concerned. 

(iil) All contracts and instruments relating to the local purchase of storei 
and supply of materials; by Stores Officers/ Administrative Officer of 
Establishments under Director General o} Inspection. 

Q. Orders & other instruments made and executed in the case of Heavy Vehicle* 
Factory under the Department of Defence Production. 

(a) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and conve- 

yance, or carriage of materials including electricity, gas and water, 
stores, machinery, etc.; 

(b) security bonds for the performance and completion of wont; 

(c) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given a* 

security; 

(d) all Instruments relating to the execution of work of all kinds connected 

with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants and with 
foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary 
installations; 

(e) leases of houses, land or other immovable property; 

(f) all leases and agreements relating to sale of rights (e.g. grazing rights, 

grass-cutting rights, selling rights within the Factory Estate, etc); by 
the General Manager, Heavy Vehicle Factory; 

(g) security Bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants; by the General Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory; 

(h) all Service agreements; by the General Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory, 

(1) all contracts and instruments relating to the supply of materials upto 
the value of Rs. 400/-; by the Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory; 

(j) contracts for local purchase/ repair of stores; by Manager /Deputy 
Manager, Heavy Vehicles Factory, 


R. In the case of National Defence College. 

All contracts and instruments in connection with the binding work of the 
National Defence College; by the Commandant, National Defence College. 

IV. IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION ; 

1 A (I) All service agreements including agreements entered into with contract 

( Officers for a specified period of service in the Ministry of Education 
and security bond for the due performance of their duty by Govern- 
ment servants; 

(ii) aH agreements, mortgage bonds, surety bonds etc., arising out 

various advances r except advances in respect of which Under Secre- 
tary (Administration), is the sanctioning authority] sanctioned to 
Officers in the Ministry of Education; 

(iii) surety bonds relating to the grant of pension to Government servant* 

{ > or provisional pension to displaced Government servants; 

dvi security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 

(iv) hecurily e D s °to sec t; r e the due execution of an office or the due accounting 

for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by a Deputy 
Secretary* to the Government of India in the Ministry of Education. 

B (i) Agreements with Individual artists for the execution of artistic work* 
or with Institutions for a loan for construction of a building, 

an bonds and other instruments Irorn scholars selected for scholarship In 
Adviser concern in -the Ministry of Education. 



Sic 3(1)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, M8 669 


C. All contracts and instruments relating to the publication, printing, produc- 
tion, publicity and sale of books, educational work etc., writing by private persona; 
by the Assistant Educational Adviser ( Publication ) in the Ministry of Education. 

2. In the case of the Archaeological Survey of India: — 

(I) Leases of archaeological monuments, lands, stalls and shops, purchase 

or lease of cutting and harvesting rights in archaeological gardens and 
compounds, leases and instruments for transfer or control of protect- 
ed monuments and lands attached to them, by the concerned 
Superintendents, Archaeological Survey of India . 

(II) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the execution of 

works and repairs to protected monuments and other immovable 
property, by the Director General of Archaeology in India in respect 
of all sanctioned original works or repairs, or by Superintendents 
Archaeological Survey of India, when the cost of sanctioned works 
does not exceed Rs. 10,000. 

(iii) Agreements under sections 5(1) and G of the Ancient Monuments and 

Archaeological Sites and Remains Act 1052 (24 of 1058); by the 
Director General of Archaeology in India and the concerned Superin- 
tendent, Archaeological Survey of India, respectively. 

(iv) Security Bonds of Cashiers and other Gove' nment servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the 
Deputy Director General of Archaeology ( Administration ) in the case 
of the Headquarteis office of the Survey and by the concerned Head 
Office in the case of Subordinate Offices of the Survey. 

(v) All agreements or lease-deeds relating to hiring of building for use as 
office accommodation within their respective areas of jurisdiction, by 
the concerned Superintendents of the Archaeological Survey of India, 
provided that the hiring of the accommodation has been duly sanc- 
tioned by a competent authority and the d aft agreement or lease- 
deed lias been duly vetted by the Ministry of Law, 

3. In the case of National Gallery of Modern Art: — 

(i) Contracts and other instruments for the binding of books and publica- 

tions; 

(ii) agreements in connection with the disinfection of and the control of 

v hi to- ants and other insects in the Galleries and Library premises, 
etc.; 

(iii) contracts for catering relating to the Gallery Canteen: 

(lv) all agreements relating to local purchase of stores and materials, etc. 
upto the limit of Rs. 2,000 in each case; 

(v) contract and instrument relating to disposal of worn out and obsolete 

stores and broken or damaged objects of value upto Rs. 1,000; 

(vi) all deeds and contracts, etc. relating to the execution ol petty original 

works, : epairs, renovations, etc. in the Gallery through sources other 
than C.P.W.D. upto a limit of Rs. 2,500 in each case; 

(vil) contracts end other instruments for petty construction in connection 
with erection, removal, packing and transport of sculptures and other 
art objects and setting up of dioramas and machinery which are out- 
side the purview of C.P.W.D.; 

(viii) contracts for delivery of consignments; 
by the Curator, National Gallery of Modren Art. 

4. In the case of Centra 1 Hindi Directorate: 

(i) Agreements and contracts (upto the limit of Rs. 25.000) with authors, 
translators and publishers in connection with the scheme relating to 
the preparation and translation of standard works of University level 
into Hindi and other Indian Languages; 



fypy THE GAZETTE QF INDIA : APRIL 23. 1969/ VAISAK.HA 8, 1888 [Pjprr H— 


(11) contracts and instruments relating to the purchase and supply of mate- 
rial. stores, equipments, books and magazines (upto the following 
limits) : — 


Books and magazines etc. 

Furniture 
Other stores 

(111) contracts for the appointment of Transport Contractors 
of Rs. 2,000); 

by the Director, Central Hindi Directorate. 


Rs. 30,000 
Rs. 7,000 
Rs. 0,000 
(upto the limit 


5. In the case of the National Archives of India: — - 

(i) Agreement for the publication of documents in the custody of the 

National Archives of India through the Universities or private 
agencies; 

(ii) agreements contracts relating to purchase of stores and machinery; 
clearance and delivery of consignments, conveyance and carriage of 
stores; 

(111) security bonds or mortgage deeds In connection with employment of 
Cashiers and Store-keepers charged with disbursement of money or 
the custody and handling of stores; ' 

(iv) execution of bonds by trainees; 

(v) contracts and Instruments relating to disposal of waste paper and 

obsolete stores and unserviceable machine y of National Archives of 
India; 

(vl) execution of agreements and contracts relating to the allotment of 
cycle stand shed and canteen premises of the National Archives of 
India; 

by the Director of Archives of Government of India. 

6. In the case of National Discipline Scheme Directorate. New Delhi: — 

(1) (1) Security bonds or mortgage deeds in connection with employment 

of cashiers charged with disbursement of money and storekeepers 
charged with custody and maintenance of stores; 

(ii) execution of bonds by trainees; 

(III) lease deeds in respect of Directorate buildings hired for the National 
Discipline Scheme. New Delhi (upto limit of Rs. 5.000 p.m.); 

by the Director National Discipline Scheme, New Delhi. 

(2) Indemnity bonds guaranteeing the safe custody of the chessls; by the 

Director of National Discipline Scheme Directorate. 


7 In the case of Regional Centre fo" the Training of Educational Planners, 
Administrators and Supervisors in Asia, New Delhi: — 

(i) Contracts and other instruments relating to the pavment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals; 

fll) seem itv bonds for Cashiers and cither Government servants of their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or other property 
received by virtue thereof; 

by the Deputy Director, Kcoionci Centre for Educational Planners, Administrators 
and Supervisors in Asia, New Delhi. 


8, In the case of the Anthropological Survey of India: — 


A All contracts, deeds or other agreements relating to the execution of 
works and repairs to buildings of the Anthropological Survey of India 
which are under the Administrative control of the Survey, Including 



Sue. 4(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25. 1966/VAISAKHA S, 1888 


sanitary water simply and electrical installations, within the follow- 
ing monetary limits: — 

(a) Rs. 5,000 in the case of original works and special repairs; 

(b) Rs. 500 in the case of additions and alterations; 

(c) Rs. 500 In the case of electrical installations , and 

(dl Rs. 1 500 in the case of sanitary and v r ator supn'y installations; 
by the Director, Anthropological Survey of India. 

B. (i) All instruments relating to purchase, si. poly and c ; nv**y;> tree or 

cawleye of materials, st res and mj.chln r -rv and repairs thereof; 

fii) /ill ins: unients relating to Ihe execution of works of a’l kinds connect- 
ed with buildinvs and estate j in charge of the Survey; 

by the Director o r Deputy Director, An throvoiogiciU Survey of India. 

C. (i) Security bends of Cashiers • nd other Cover’vnent servants or tht'c 

surolh's t) s'.cu;p the due p'-formnnee of their duties or of the du t 
a counting for money or other property received hv virtue thereof, 
in the case of employees of Survey wham the Director Anthropological 
Survey of India has the power to appoint; 

(ii) Agreements for the publication of documents in Eu onean or Oriental 

languages through the Universities or private agencies; 

(iii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc.; 

by the Director, Anthropological Survey of India. 

9. In the case of National Library, Calcutta: — 

(i) Contracts and other instruments for the binding of b?oks and publica- 

tions; 

(ii) Agreements in connection with the disinfestation and control of while- 

ants and other insects in the Library premises; 

(iii) A"rrements reU'ting to the purchriiO, suoply, conveyance n carriage of 

vn;t. Tin's, stores miichioerv. clearance end delivery of consignments, 
!o;Ti of books and publications; 

(iv) Security bonds or moi+;age r'^efs in connection with l 1 ■* o’np'ojment 

of cashiers and .store-keen .vs char go 1 with the <J .shu iv.cmcnt of 
money or the cuslody and handling of stores; 

(v) Catering contracts relating to flip Library Canteen; 

(vi) Contra ts ;pi instruments rcating to the maintenance and up-keep of 

th° T.ibrarv cciulpmem; 

(vii) Contracts and instruments r dating to the sale of rui h'sh, giar.s and 
>n . h ■=■ Belvedere Estate you to iho disposal of Wm" paper end 
o her obvil-l? st. ires of the Library; 

(vdii) Com roots arid A.grepm“ntir with the gnpnlie-o of ihc jo "t-n r «.-s, prrio- 
d (Mis. s~ rin's, etc. where advance n'-pmuii/.-i 1 soript'n-i i-: made; 

(ix) Crfi.i’h ’■ ilh firms for iho maintc ..i’.ce of \aiiD:n appliances and 

instruments used in the Library; 

(x) Conti" cts w’lh the scho’ar; of repute for deliverin'' 1 '"hwr f, n Ihe book 

contents e + c. of the Lihrary in the In’erest of the pn'fic service; 

(xi) Co* (ra- i - "-is i-m Compilers of Bibliographies of In to n -v on payment 

of remuneration; 

(xiil Service aerc^ments; 

(xill) Leases of land, houses cut 1 r ’.her immovable properties; 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966/VAISAKHA 3 , 2888 PtyT II- 


(xlv) Contracts and instruments relating to sale of fruits, flowers, plants etc. 
and leases of ponds including sale of fish. 

by the Librarian , National Library, Calcutta. 

10, In the case of National Museum, New Delhi: — 

A, Security bonds to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 

ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof, of the 
Government servants whom the Director or the Assistant Director, 
National Museum has power to appoint; 

by the Director or the Assistant Director , National Museum , New Delhi as the case 

may be. 

B. (i) Contracts and other instruments for petty construction in connection 

with erection, removal, excavation, packing and transport ot works 
of sculptures, objects or art, setting up of dioramas, machinery, which 
are outside the purview of the Public Works Department; 

(ii) Contracts for the supply of stores, chemicals, objects of art, dioramas, 
machinery and apparatus and other equipment, and their maintenance 
and repairs when the cost does not exceed Rs. 2,500 in each case; 

by the Director, National Museum, New Delhi. 

11. In the case of the Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad: — 

(i) Bonds indemnifying owners of mines and oil-fields against claims by 

students under the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923; 

(ii) Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashier, 

store-keeper, Chief Store-keeper and other subordinates whom he 
has power to appoint and who are required to handle cash, stojes and 
valuables to the course of their official work; 

(ill) Contracts and other instruments for petty construction in connection 
with the erection and installation of machinery, which are not under 
the purview of the Public Work3 Department; 

(iv) Contracts and other instruments : elating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc. 

(v) Surety bonds relating to Central Government servants who are deputed 

for training abroad; 

by the Director, Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad 

12. In ilie case of Survey of India: — 

A. (I) Contracts and other instruments relating to advances for the pur- 
chase of conveyances; 

(ill Security bonds for the due performance of Iheir duties by Officers of 
the Survey of India, Class I Service; 

by the Surveyor General. 


B, Agreements nr leas >s for hire of buildings required for the Survey of 

India fo ■ periods not exceeding one year; 

by the P ire'^ors, Deputy Director, or President, Geodetic and Research Branch, 
Survey of Indie. 

C, AV instruments relating ti purchase, supply avid conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores and machinery and repairs thereof; 

by the Surveyor General, Directors, Deputy Directors or President, Geodetic and 
Research Branch or Deputy Stores Officers. Survey of India. 

D, Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 

by the Surveyor General, Directors, Deputy Directors or President, Geodetic and 
Research 11 ranch, Survey of India. 



Sec. JrtiJ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 190<5/VAI$AKHA 8, 1888 




E. (i) All instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds connected 

with buildings and estates in the charge of the Department; 

(ii) Contracts and other instruments relating to printing work, serial photo- 
graphy, mapping preparation of mosaics and prints; 

by the Surveyor General, or Directors, Survey of India. 

F. Agreement relating to conservancy services rendered at Hathibarkala 

Estate, Dehra Dun; 

by the Director, Map Publication Survey of India. 

G. Agreements relating to conservancy services rendered on the Survey of 

India, Estates at 17 EC Road, Dehra Dun; 

by the Deputy Director, Geodetic and Research Branch, Survey of India. 

H. Service agreements in the shape of security bonds for the due perfor- 

mance of duties are executed by the Government Servants on first 
appointment and accepted by the authorities as per details below: — 

(a) Class III Division I personnel and above; 
by the Surveyor General of India. 

(b) Class III Division II and Ministerial Staff; 

by the Director, Deputy Surveyor General and Deputy Director of Geodetic and 
Research Branch for their respective circles offices. 

I. Leases of land, houses and other immovable properties for periods not 

exceeding one year; 

by Directors, Deputy Directors, of Geodetic and Research Branch and Deputy 
Directors for circles and Deputy Surveyor Genera!/ Assistant Surveyor General for 
Surveyor General’s Office and for pervade exceeding one year by the Surveyor 
General, 

18. In the case of Zoological Survey of India: — 

(i) Agreements or leases in connection with the hiring of buildings requir- 

ed for the Regional Stations of the Zoological Sutvey of India for 
period not exceeding three years; 

(ii) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 

of material, stores and machinery etc. and repairs thereof; 

(ii) Bonds and other instruments from scho'a r s -lector! for scholarship in 
Zoological Survey of India; 

(iv) Contracts and other instruments relating to the p i.yment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc,; 

(v) Fidelity bonds from the cashier and the store-keepers; 

(vi) Agreements of lease deeds of houses for office accommodation; 
by the Director, Zoological Survey of India. 

14. In the case of the Botanical Survey of India, Calcutta: — 

(i) All instruments relalin ' to pm the,-*, supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores o' t mu. liinery etc., end lrpcirs thereof; 

(ii) Security bonds or mr,rVh-"e due ls n f cashiers and .-.tore-keepers and 

othe Government servants or their studies 1o secure ihe due execu- 
tion of an offi-e or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; 

(iii) Agreements or ’cases for hire of buildings required for the Botanical 

Survey of India, for periods not exceeding three years at a time; 

(iv) Bonds and other instruments from scholars selected for scholarship in 

the Botanical Survey of India; 



$74 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1898 [Paw H- 


(v) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals, 

etc.; 


(.vi) Service agreements; 

(vii) Leases of land, house and other immovable properties upto the limit as 
defined in General Financial Rules; 

by the Director, Botanical Survey of India. 

15. In the case of National Atlas Organisation; — 

(i) All instruments rel.Tipg to purchase,- supply and conveyance or carriage- 

of mate.ials, stores and machinery and repairs thereof; 

(ii) Contracls and other instruments for the binding of books and publica- 

tions including covers of National Atlas; 

(ill) Agreements In connection with the disinfestation and control of white- 
ants and other insects in the office premises; 

<"iv) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 
subscriptions for purchase of newspapers etc.; 

(v) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the duo accounting 
for money or other pioperty received by virtue thereof; 

by the Deputy Director, National Atlas Organisation. 

V— IN THE case of the ministry of external affairs. 

1. Arrangements for conveyance ' of Indian Post Office mails In Nepal; by tha 
Ambassador of India in Nepal. 

2. All agreements, deeds and other instruments relating to the business of the 
Central Passport and Emigration Organisation by the Chief Passport Officer. Such 
agreement deeds and other instruments upto the limit of rupees twelve 
thousand per year shall be executed by the Regional Passport Officer, Madras, 
Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Lucknow. 

3. Agreements or leases for the purchase or hire of buildings and land requir- 
ed for the accommodation of the offices, officers and staff of the Indian diplomatic 
missions in foreign countries, such as offices of the High Commissioners, Deputy 
High Commlssoners, Assistant High Commissioners and Commissioners, Embassies, 
Legations Cor, so lat.es General and Consulates and agreements for th° sale, let out 
or construction of Government buildings in a foreign country; by the Head of the 
Mission or post or the Head of the Chancery in the foreign country concerned. 

Explanation : The term “Head of a Mission or Post" includes a High Commis- 
sioner, a Deputy High Commissioner, an Assistant High Commissioner, a Com- 
missioner, an Assistant Commissioner, an Ambassador, a Minister, a Representative, 
a Charge d’ Affaires, a Consul-General, a Consul and a Trade Agent. 

4. All agreements, deeds and other Instruments relating to the work of the 
Government of India in Sikkim; by the Political Officer, Sikkim, Gangtok or tne 
First Secretary in his office. 

5. (a) All contracts and Instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 
ance, or carriage of material, stores, machinery etc; 

(b) Security bonds for due performance and completion of works and contracts. 

(cl All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 
security; 

(di All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete and 
waste stores located in Indian Missions and Posts abroad and belonging to the 
Gover nment of India. 

(e) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government Servants or their sureties 
to sec are the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 
property received by virtue thereof; 



HE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 23. 19H6/VAKAKHA S, 1888 673 ; 


by an Under Secretary to the Government of India or an Attache in the Ministry 
of External Affairs or the Head of the Mission/ Post or the Head of the Chancery 
in the foreign country concerned. 

0. All contracts and assurances of property required to be made In the United 
Kingdom; by the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom or by the 
Deputy High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom. 

Provided that, subject to such rules and restrictions as the High Commissioner, 
with the approval of the President may prescribe, any contract, other 
than contracts for, or relating to, the manufacture, sale, purchase or 
supply of goods or for or relating to the affreightment or the carriage 
of goods, or insurance in the India Store Department under the con- 
trol of the High Commissioner for India In th* Umted Kingdom, may 
be executed on behalf of the President in the absence of the said 
High Commissioner and the Deputy High Commissioner; 

bv the Chief Accounting Officer or the Secretary of the Establishment Department 
of the. said High Commissioner’s Office. 


VI.— IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
A. In the case of the Department of Economic Ailairs; — • 

1. In the rase of Government securities; by the Governor or a Deputy Governor 
of the Reserve Bank of India. 

2. In the case of Treasuries; — 

(i) Security bonds or mortgage-deeds given as security in connection with 
the employment of officers of Treasurers and Shroffs In District or 
Sub-District Treasuries and agreements entered into with such officers; 
by Collectors or Deputy Commissioners of Districts. 

(11/ Deeds of reconveyance of security given by Shroffs In District and Sub- 
District Treasurers; by Collectors or Deputy Commissioners of Dis- 
tricts. 

3. In the case of the India Security Press and the Currency Note Press: — 

(1) (a) Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and building materials 
and f°r the provisions of labour indentures to bind apprentices of 
India Security Press and the Currency Note Press for a definite 
term; 

(b) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and waste products; 

(<>) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of office and residential build- 
ings, water coolers, bullion balances, weighing machines, telephone 
system and other equipments; 

(d) contracts for extermination of white ants from office buildings and 
premises; 

(d) Agreements with establishments Including Workmen’s establishments; 
and 


(f) Security bonds given as security In connection -with the employment 
of cashiers, store-keepers. Assistant Store-keepers, Chief Inspectors 
Inspectors and Assistant Inspectors charged with disbursement of 
money or the custody and handling ot Securities and other valuable, 

bv the Master. India Security Press and E.v-officin Controller of Stamps, Nosik Road 
bv the Deputy Master. India Security Press /Currency Note Press in the case of 
contract' fo ”b urchssc and supply nt stores not exceeding Rs. 10.000 - In value 
or m he V.sbm/t Mast--, In Ha Security Press, Currency Note ^css'Nem Cur- 
re.ncy Note. Pres in the case of contracts for the purchase and supply of stores not 
exceeding Rs. 5.100/- In value, 

(ii) Contracts for works administratively approved by the Ministry of 
Finance; by the Master, India Security Press, Nasik Road. 


4, In the case of the Security Paper Mill Piojecx. 

(al Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and building 

(a) VonrracM q£ ]abQUr and Ventures to bind prentices end 

employees of the Security Paper Mill Project for a definite term. 




the GAZETTE Oft, ’INDIA .' APSRil' '23, ' fSCd /VAlSAKHA B, 1888 [Part II- 


(b) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and other waste products; 

(c) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of office and residential buildings; 

(d) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of water coolers, weighing machines 

and balances telephone system, room air conditioners, air conditioning 
plant of the mill, fire fighting equipment, electrically operated lifts and 
cranes and other similar specialised equipment; 

(e) Contracts for extermination of white ants in office buildings and premises; 

(f) Agreement with establishments including workmen’s establishments; 

(g) Flonds given as security in connection with the employment of cashiers, 

store keepers, Assistant Store keepers and other staff who are charged 
with the disbursement of money or the custody and handling of securi- 
ties and other valuables; and 

(h) Contracts for works administratively approved by the Ministry oi 

Finance; 

<by the General Manager, Security Paper Mill Project, Hoshangabad. 

5, In thu case of (I) the India Government Mint, Bombay (li) the India Govern- 
ment Mint. Aiipore (Calcutta), (iii) the India Government Mint, Hyderabad (Andhra 
Pradesh), (tv) the Silver Refinery, Calcutta, and (v) the Assay Department:- — • 

(I) (a) Contracts for the purchase and supply of stores and bui ding materials 
and matters incidental thereto, for the provision oi labours and in- 
dentures to bind apprentices at the Mints and Silver Refinery for a 
definite terms; 

(b) Contracts for the sale of worn out stores and ashes and oilier waste 

products; 

(c) Contracts for maintenance and repairs of office and residential buildings, 

repair of water coolers, bullion balances, weighing machines, tele- 
phones system and other equipments; 

(d) Contracts for extermination of white ants from office buildings and pre- 

mises; 

(e) Agreements with establishment including workmen’s establishment; and 

(f) Security and Fidelity Guarantee bonds in connection wifh the employ- 

ment of office cashiers and other staff who are lequired to furnish 
such bonds; 

by the Mint Master. Bombay in the cases of India Govrrvv cut M'nt, Lo-tbay and 
Assay Departments at Bombay and Calcutta, by the Mint Master, or Deputy Mint 
Master , Aliporc ( Calcutta ) in the case of India Government Mint, A bp r re (i alrutta ) 
by the' Mint Master, Hyderabad in the case of the India Government M nt Hydera- 
bad, and by the General Manager, Silver Refinery, Calcutta in the cl c of the Silver 
Refinery, Calcutta. 

8. In the case of the office of the National Savings Commissioner- 

(i) Contracts and other Instruments with Authorised A g"n*s appointed for 

selling Savings Certificates j?su°d under Ihe Small Saving- S-'h'me of 
the Covernment of India; by the authorities appointing the Authorised 
Agents. 

(ii) Pledge of Government securities by the Authorised Agents (or the due 

performance of their duties; by the authorities appointing the Authoris- 
ed Agents. 

(iii) Security Bonds for the due performance of their duties hv the Assistant 

Regional Director, National Savings, District Organisers or tlm Lady 
Organisers unpointed under the Small Savings Pcbem-' of the Govern- 
ment of India; by the National Savings Commissioners. 

(iv) Indemnity Bonds from the officials of the Naiional Savinas O'-g-misption 

in connection with the loss of identity r-ards/rec-dnt books /Small Sav- 
ings Securities held In their custody; by the National Savings Com- 
missioner. 



<W 


sec. ,i0j the gazette of india > april as, i^/vAIsakha s. lm 


(v) Indemnity Bonds from Authorised Agents in connection with Joss by 
them of Certificates of Authority, Receipt Bonks and Small Savings 
Securities held in their custody; by the authorities appointing the au- 
thorised agents. 

tvi) Security bonds in the form of Fidelity Guarantee Policy furnished by the 
Authorised Agents; by the authorities appointing the authorised Agents . 

tvll) Security Bonds of Accountant in the office of the National Savings 
Commissioner for due performance of his duties and accounting of 
money or other property received by him; by the National Savings 
Commissioner. 

\VtU) Security bonds of Cashiers in the offices of the Regional Directors, 
National Savings (Government of India) and Deputy Regional Direc- 
tors, National Savings Incharge (Government of India), for due per- 
formances of their duties and accounting of money and other property 
received by them; by the Regional Directors, National Savings (Gov- 
ernment of India) or the Deputy Regional Director, National Savings 
Incharge (Government of India) as the case may be. 

(lx) Leases of office accommodation, godowns, and garages for the office of 
the National Savings Commissioner; by the National Savings Com- 
missioner. 

(x) Leases of office accommodation, godowns and garages for the offices of 
the Regional Directors, National Savings (Government of India), and 
Deputy Regional Directors, National Savings Incbarge- (Government 
of India); by the Regional Directors, National Savings (Government of 
India) and the Deputy Regional Directors , National Saving Incharge 
(Government of India ) as the case may be. 

7. In the case of the Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings, Oorgaum; 

(i) (a) All contracts and other instruments relating to purchase, supply,- 
conveyance or caniage of stores and building materials and for 
the provision of labour; 

(b) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and/or 

contracts and all other instruments relating to any security for due 
performance and completion of works and/or contracts; 

(c) Indentures to bind apperentices at the Kolar Gold Mines for a 

definite term; 

(d) Agreements relating to lease of land and buildings and other pro- 

perties; 

(e) Agreements with establishment including Workmen’s establishments; 

(f) Contracts for works administrative' y approved by the Ministry of 

Finance; 

(g) Security and Fidelity Guarantee bonds in connection with the em- 

ployment of cashiers and other staff who are required to furnish- 
such bonds; 

by the Managing Director, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings. 

(ii) Agreements included in the Memoranda of Agreement irferred to in 
Rule 49 of the Workmen’s Compensation (Mysore) Rules, 1953; by 
the Managing Director, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings, the Super- 
intendent, Kolar Gold Mining Undertakings (Nandydroon Mine), 
Oorgaum in the case of Nandydroog Mine, the Superintendent, Kolar 
Gold Mining Undertakings (Champion Reefs, Mine) in the case of 
Champion Reef Mine, Champion Reefs; the Superintendent Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertakings (Mysore Mine) Marikuppen in the cure of 
Mysore Mine; the Chief T'Scdricfil Eniarm n , Ko'-r Colo ■ Mining 
Unde.rtakings (Electricity Dcrifn tinevt) O orgenm in the case of Elec- 
tricity Department, the Chief Medical and Sanitary Officer, Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertakings (Medical Establishment) rhn-r.. on Reefs in 
the rase of Medical Establishment; and the Chief Officer, Kolar Gold 
Mining Undertakings (Watch ml Wa<-d Establishment) , Champion 
Reefs in the case of Watch and Ward Establishment. 



678 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAKllA 8 , 1888 [Part II- 


8. Indemnity bond executed by claimants claiming refund of compulsory depo- 
sits without producing legal documents and the surety bonds executed by the 
surities relating to such refunds by the Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry 
of Finance Department of Economic Affairs. 

B. — In the case of the Department of Expenditure: — 

(1) In the case of the Office of the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts 
Officer, Farakka Barrage Project: — 

(i) Security and Fidelity guarantee bonds in connection with the employ- 

ment of Cashier and Assistant Cashier who are required to furnish 
such bonds; 

(ii) agreements with establishment; and 

(iii) reconvcying of Government securities pledged by the contractors and 
deposited with the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, 
Farakka Barrage Project for the due execution of Project contractors; 

by the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer , Farakka Barrage Project. 

(2) Surety bonds executed by the Cost Accountant Apprentices for fulfilment 
of their obligations under the terms of their employment; by the Under Secretary 
to the Gone, of India or Senior Cost Accounts Officer or Principal, Cast Accoun- 
tants’ Training School, Calcutta. 

C — In the case of the Department of Revenue. 

1. In the case of the Income-tax Department: — 

(i) All contracts and instruments relating to the Income-tax Department; 

by Commissioners of Income-tax. 

2, In the case of Central Excise Collcctoratcs: — 

(i) (a) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the business of 
the Central Excise Co lectorates; by the Collector , the Deputy Col- 
lector, Assistant Collector, Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent , 
or Inspector of Central Excise. 

(b) Contracts for the lease of land in the control of the Central Excise 

Collectorates, where such lease is otherwise permissible; by the 
Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central Excise. 

(c) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase, supply and convey- 

ance of furniture and stores; by the Collector or the Deputy Col- 
lector of Central Excise or the Assistant Collector of Central Excise 
in charge of a Division. 

(d) Leases of land leases and su. render of buildings or other immov- 
able property; by the Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central 
Excise. 

(e) Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashiers 

and other subordinates who arc required to handle Government 
money in the course of their official work; by the Collector or the 
Deputy Collector of Central Excise. 

(f) Agreements in the prescribed form fur buildings hired in their re»- 

poclive charges; by the Assistant Collectors and Superintendents 
of Central Excise. 

(g) All contracts deeds and othrr instruments for the purchase of land 

for construction of range office-cum-resldential accommodation; by 
the Collectors of Central Excise and Deputy CollecUrrs of Central 
Excise. 

(ii) Contracts and other instruments for the purchase, supply and convey- 

ance or carriage of building materials, stores and machinery and con- 
tracts for petty construction and repairs and for public works of 
every description which are executed by the Central Excise Collec- 
torate. Bombay; by the Collector or the Deputy Collector of Central 
Excise. Bombay or the Assistant Collector in charge of a Division. 

(iii) In the case of the Statistics and Intelligence Branch (Central 
Excise) : — 



8 * 0 . .1(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23. 196S/VA1SAKHA 3. J 888 679 


All contracts, deeds and instruments relating to the business of the Statis- 
tics and Intelligence Branch (Central Excise); by the Deputy Col- 
lector in charge, Statistics and Intelligence Branch ( Central Excise). 

3. In the case of the Customs Department; — 

(i) Security bonds executed by clerks, shroffs at out ports in Madras State; 

by the Superintendents of Central Excise appointed to be officers of 
customs under section 4(1) of the Customs Act, 1962, within their 
respective jurisdictions. 

(ii) Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers and exporters in connec- 

tion with the clearance or export .of goods; by any officer of Central 
Excise Department not lower in rank than an Inspector, appointed to 
be an officer of customs within his jurisdiction, under section 4(1) of 
the Customs Act, 1962. 

(iii) All contracts, deeds and other inst uments relating to the business of 

the Customs Department other than those specified in items (i) and 
( ii ) above; by the Collectors of Customs or the Additional Collector 
of Customs or the Deputy Collectors of Customs or the Assistant Col- 
lecto"s of Customs. 

(iv) Bonds for the grant of duplicate refund orders; by the Chief Accounts 

Officers or Assistant Collectors of Customs. 

4. In the case of the Narcotics Department: — 

(i) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the business of the 

Office of the Narcotics Commissioner; by the Narcotics Commissioner. 

(ii) Security bonds in connection with employment of office cashiers and 

other subordinates who arc required to handle Government money in 
the course of their official wo ft; by the Narcotics Commissioner, 

(iii) Contracts for the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of build- 

ing materials and stores and contracts for petty construe- ion and re- 
pairs and for public works of every description which are not executed 
by the Public Works Department; by the Manager of the Factory, 
Gazipur or the Assistant Narcotics Commissioner, Nennuch. 

(Iv) Contracts for the supply of weighment articles and leases of agricul- 
tural land attached to opium buildings within the jurisdiction of Dis- 
trict Opium Officers; by the District Opium Officers. 

(v) Contracts for miscellaneous stores, chemicals and apparatus, mango- 

wood chests, plant and scantlings for packing of opium; by the 
Manager of the Factory, Gazipur or the Assistant Collector (Opium), 
Neemuch. 

(vi) Contracts and other instruments relating to the business of the opium 

Department other than those specified in items (i) lo (v) above; by 
the Deputy Narcotics Commissioner. Gazipur or the Narcotics Com- 
missioner. 

(vii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the sale of opium; by an 
Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue). 

5. In the case of the Directorates of Inspection (Income-tax) (Investigation) 
and Research, Statistics and Publication; — 

Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashier;: and other 
subordinate staff who are required to handle Government money In the course of 
their official work: by the Director of Inspection (Iucome-tn.r ) , Dinytnr of Inspec- 
tion (Investigation) and Director of Inspection (Research, Statistics and Publica- 
tions) as the case may be. 

6. In the case of Directorate of Inspection (Customs and Cent- al Excise): — 

(i) Security bonds in connection with the employment of office cashiers and 
other subordinates who arc required to handle Government money in 
the course of their official work; by the Director of Inspection (Cus- 
tom and Central Excise ). 



gjjo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1963/ VAISAKHA 8, 1888 [PaJlt H~ 


(ii) Leases of land and leases and surrender of buildings- or immovable pro- 
perty; by the Dir extor/ Deputy Director of Inspection {Customs and 
Central Excise). 

7. All contracts and instruments relating to Estate Duty; by the Controllers of 
Estate Ditty. 

8. In the case of Central Revenues Control Laboratory, New De’hi; — 

Security bonds In connection with the employment of cashier, Instrument 
Maker and Laboratory clerk for handling Government money and stores in the 
course of their official work; by the Chief Chemist, Central Revenues Control 
Laboratory. 

9. In the case of Central Excise Collectorates functioning as Customs Collec- 
tor at es: — 

(i) All contracts, deeds or instruments relating to the Central Excise Col- 
lectorates functioning as Customs Collectorates; by the Collector, 
Assistant Collector, Superintendent, Deputy Superintendent or Inspec- 
tor of Central Excise appointed to be Collector, Assistant Collector 
and officers of customs respectively under section 4(1) of the Custom » 
Act, 1962; within their respective jurisdictions. 

(11) Contracts for the lease of land in the control of Central Excise Collec- 
torates functioning as Customs Collectorates, where such lease is 
otherwise permissible; by the Collector of Central Excise appointed to 
be Collector of Customs under section 4(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. 

(ill) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase, supply and conveyance 
of furniture; stores and other equipment; by the Collector of Central 
Excise appointed to be Collector of Customs under section 4(1) of the 
Customs Act, 1962. 

(iv) Leases of land and leases and surrender of buildings or other immov- 

able property; by the Collector of Central Excise appointed to be the 
Collector of Customs under section 4(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. 

(v) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure- 

ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other p'operty received by virtue thereof; by the Collector 
of Central Excise or the Assistant Collector of Central Excise appoint- 
ed to be the Collector and Assistant Collector oj Customs under sec- 
tion 4(1) of the Customs Act, 1962; within their respective jurisdic- 
tions. 

(vi) Agreements for hiring of buildings in their respective jurisdictions; by 

the Assistant Collector nr the Superintendent of Central Excise 
appointed to be the Assistant Collector of Customs and officer of Cus- 
toms respectively, under section 4(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. 

D. In the case of the Ministry of Finance (Defence). 

In the case of the Defence Accounts Department: — 

(I) All Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; by the Controller General or the Deputy Controller General of 
Defence Accounts or the Controllers or the Joint Controllers of Defence 
Accounts in the Defence Accounts Department, 

(II) Agreements for the hire of houses required for accommodation of 

Defence Accounts Officers; by the Controllers or the Joint Controllers of 
Defence Accounts in the Defence Accounts Department. 

(ill) Service agreements with the Government servants in the Defence 
Accounts Department whether permanent or temporary; by the Con- 
troller General or the Deputy Controller General ( Administration) or 
the Deputy Controller General of Defence Account:: or the Controllers 
or the Joint Controllers of Defence Acronnts in the Del -r.ee Accounts 
Department. 

(iy) Contracts and deeds connected with any other business of the Defenc# 
Accounts Department; by the Controller General or the Deputy Con- 
troller General (Administration) or the Controllers or the Joint Con- 
trollers of Defence Accounts in the Defence Accounts Department. 



*kc. 8(1)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAK.HA 8, 1888 (&l 


(v) Instruments relating to the reassignment of insurance policies assigned 
to Governor General before the 26th January, 1950 and to the Presi- 
dent on or after that date in accordance with the rules regulating the 
General Provident Funds (Defence Services), the Defence Services 
Officers Provident Fund, the Indian Ordnance Department Provident 
Fund, the MES Contributory Provident Fund and other Provident 
Funds on the Defence side; by Accounts Officer of the Fund, as defined 
In the rules of the respective Funds. 


VII. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE COMMUNI- 
TY DEVELOPMENT AND COOPERATION. 


A. In the case of the Department of Agriculture: — 

1. In the case of the Exploratory Tubewells Organisation, 


(1) (a) AH instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carri- 
age of materials, stores and machinery; 

(b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 

nected with the construction of tube-wells; 

(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonda for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 


(d) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 
servants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 


by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricul - 
ture concerned with Exploratory Tubewells Organisation; Chief Engineer, 
Exploratory Tubewells Organisation or Superintending Engineer, Exploratory 
Tubewells Organisation or Executive Engineer, Exploratory Tubewells Organisa- 
tion. 


(U) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of any property given 
as security; by the Chief Engineer, Exploratory Tubewells Organisa- 
tion , 

(Hi) Agreement? relating to the loan of tools and plants to contractors and 
others; by the Chief Engineer, Exploratory Tubewells Organisation. 

(iv) All agreements, leases for hiring of buildings and other immovable pro- 
perty; by the Chief Engineer or the Executive Engineer, Exploratory 
Tubewelh Organisation. 


2. In the case of the Indian Research Institutes: — 

(i) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Agricultural Re- 
search Institute and its sub-stations; by the Director or the Registrar, 
Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. 

(ii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Potato Research 
Institute, Simla and Its sub-stations; by the Director, Central Potato 
Research Institute, Simla. 

(ill) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Rice Research 
Institute, Cuttack and its sub-stations; by the Director, Central Rice 
■ Research Institute, Cuttack. 

(iv) (a) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Veterinary 
Research Institute. Izatnagar and Mukteswar; by the Director or 
the Registrar, Indian Verterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and 
Mukteswar. 

(b) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Veterinary 
Research Institute, Mukteswar branch only; by the Assistant Ad- 
ministrative Officer at Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Muk- 
teswar. 

(v) Contracts and other instruments relating to the National Dairy Re- 
search Institute, Karnal and its Southern Regional Station, Bangalore; 
by the Director of Dairy Research, National Dairy Research Institute, 
Karnal. 



<582 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA S, 1888 [P^rt II- 


(vi3 Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Council of Agri- 
cultural Research; by the Vice President, Indian Council of Agricul- 
tural Research. 


(vli) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest Research Insti- 
tute and Colleges or its subordinate formations; by the President 
Forest Research Institute and Colleges or such Directors or "Heads of 
Office" of the Forest Research Institute and Colleges as are empower- 
ed by the President of the Institute in this behalf upto a limit of 
Rs. 5,000 in each case. 

(viii) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Delhi Zoological Park; by 
the Superintendent, Delhi Zological Park, 

(ix) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Sugarcane Breeding In- 
stitute, Coimbatore and Sugarcane sub-station, Karnal; by the Direc- 
tor, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore. 

(x) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Indian Institute of 
Sugarcane Research, Lucknow; by the Director, Indian Institute of 
sugarcane Research, Lucknow. 

(xi) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Arid Zone Re- 

search Institute, Jodhpur; by the Director, Central Arid Zone Re- 
search Institute, Jodhpur , 

(xii) Contracts and other instruments relating to Soil Conservation, Research 

Demonstration and Training Centres; by the respective Officer-in - 
charge. 

(xill) Contracts and other instruments relating to the supply of feed to the 
Regional Poultry .Farm, Bonibay/Bhubaneswar/Bangalore; by the 
Officer in charge Regional Poultry Farm, Bombay/Bhubneswar / 
Bangalore. 

(xiv) Contracts and instruments with persons other than Government ser- 
vants applying for permission to travel by aircraft belonging to Gov- 
ernment; by the pilot in Command of the aircraft.” 

3. In the case of the Central Tractor Organisation: — 

(i) (a) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or 
carriage of materials, stores and machinery; 

(b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 
nected with the repairs of machinery and reclamation of land; and 

(cl bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance of 
their duties by Government servants whom the officers specified 
below have power to appoint; by the Assistant Engineer: 

(il) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of any property given 
as security; by the Assistant Engineer. 

4. In the case of the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of 
India: — 

(i) All hire-purchase agreements with regard to supply of grading 

machines, and weighing scales with graders and packers; by the Agri- 
cultural Marketing Adviser to the Government of India. 

(ii) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Cashiers, Store- 

keepers or other Government servants whom the officer specified 
below has power to appoint; by the Agrlculturp.1 Marketing Adviser 
to the Government of India. 

(ili) All agreements or leases for hire of buildings, lands and other immov- 
able property; by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser to the Govern- 
ment of India, 



Sec 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAK.HA 3, 1888 683 


6. In the case of the Central Mechanised Farm, Suratgarb: — 

(i) (a) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply or conveyance or carri- 
age of materials, stores and machinery; 

(b) bonds of auctioneers aiid security bonds for the due performance of 
their duties by Government servants; 

(il) All instruments connected with the reconveyance of any property given 
as security; 

(iii) Agreements for the disposal and sales of stores belonging to the Farm; 

(vi) Agreements or leases for hire of buildings required for periods not ex- 
ceeding one year; and 

tv) Agreements relating to hire of machinery, too’s and plants to Govern- 
ment Organisations and private parties; by the General Manager, 
Central Mechanised Farm, Suratgarh. 

6. In the case of the Delhi Milk Scheme: — 

All contracts and other instruments; by the Chairman Delhi Milk Scheme, 

7. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Directorate of Extension; by 
the Director (Administration), Directorate of Extension. 

8. Contracts and other Instrumenst. relating to the Extension Education Insti- 
tute, Nilokheri; by the Principal, Extension Education Institute, Nilokheri. 

9. In the case of the Tractor Training and Testing Station, Budni: — 

(i) All contracts and other instruments relating to 

(a) purchase supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

machinery; 

(b) the execution of works of all kinds connected with the repairs of 

machinery, reclamation or ploughing of land; 

(c) the reconveyance of any property given as security; and 

(d) the disposal and sale of stores; 

(ii) Bonds of auctioneers for the due performance and completion of works; 

(iii) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(iv) agreements or leases for the hiring of building for periods not exceed- 

ing one year at a time; by the Director , Tractor Training and Testing 
Station. 

10. In the case of the Tractor Training Centre, Hissar (Punjab): — 

(i) All contracts and other instrument relating to 

(a) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

machinery; 

(b) the execution of works of all kinds connected with the repairs of 

machinery, reclamation or ploughing of lands; 

(c) the reconveyance of any property given as security; and 

(d) the disposal and sale of stores; 

(ii) Bonds of auctioneers for the due performance and completion of works; 

(iii) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other properly received by virtue thereof; 

(tv) agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings for periods not exceed- 
ing one year at a time; 

by the Director, Tractor Training Centre, Hissar (Punjab). 



684 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2S. I960/VAISAKHA 5, 1888 [Pa*t II— 


11. In the case of the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage 
(Including Locust Warning Organisation): — 


(i) (a) all instruments relating to purchase, supply, repairs and conveyance 
or carriage of materials, stores, machinery and vehicles; by the 
Chief Administrative Officer. 


Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage; 

(b) all agreements or leases for hire of building8( lands and other im- 

movable property; by the Chief Administrative Officer, Directorate 
of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage; 

(c) all instruments relating to maintenance, repairs, certificates of air- 

worthiness relating to various aircrafts of aerial unit of the Direc- 
torate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage; by the Chief 
Administrative Officer ; Directorate of Plant Protection , Quarantine 
and Storage; 


(d) agreements relating to the loans, hire of machinery, tools and plants 

to Government Organisations and private parties; by the Chief 
Administrative Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection and Quaran- 
tine and Storage; 

(e) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Cashier, Store- 

keeper's or other Government servants whom the Plant Protection 
Adviser has power to appoint; by the Chief Administrative Officer, 
Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage; 

(t) agreements relating to advances for the purchase of vehicles, scooter 
advance, house building advance etc; by the Chief Administrative 
Officer, Directorate of Plant Protection Quarantine and Storage; 

(g) Agreements and contracts relating to the payment of advaance sub- 
scriptions for the purchase of technical publications etcj by the 
Deputy Director (Plant Diseases) in the Directorate of Plant Pro- 
tection, Quarantine and storage; and 


(h) Agreements and contracts relating to the payment of advance sub- 
scription for the purchase of non-technical publications etc.; by the 
Administrative Officer of the Directorate of Plant Protection 
Quarantine and storage. 


12. In the case of Regional Poultry Farms; 

All contracts for the purchase of Poultry Feeds; by the Officer-in-charge , Re- 
gional Poultry Farms, Bombay, Bangalore and Bhubaneswar. 


13. In the case of the Forest Department, Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 

(i) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Andaman 
Forest Department; by the Chief Conservator of Forests, Conserva- 
tor of Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner, 
Andaman and Nicobar Islands. 


(11) All deeds, contracts and other instiuments relating to the Andaman 
Forest Department upto the limit of Rs. one lakh; by the Deputy 
Conservator of Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Conser- 
vator of Forest/Conservator of Forests. 

(Hi) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Andaman 
Forest Department upto a limit of Rs. 60,000; by the Assistant Con- 
servator of Forests (Depot Division). Andaman Government Tim- 
ber Depot with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests / 
Conservator of Forests. 


B, In the case of the Department of Food: 

1. (a) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply, clearance, 
stevedoring, handling and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, 
machinery and foodgrains; 

(b) security bonds for the due performance and completion of work; and 

(c) all Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; 



Set.. S(i>] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


"(d) all contracts and instruments relating to the grant of loans to an 
owner of a rice mill holding a valid licence under the Rice-Milling 
Industry (Regulation) Act, 1958 (21. of 1958) in the various States”. 


b V „ th f Director General of Food, Deputy Director General 
of food, A Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Minis - 
try of Food & Agriculture, an Under Secretary to the Government of 
India in the MinlstTy of Food. & A. Qrl culture. Regional Director 
(Food) Directors, Joint Directors, Deputy Directors, the Chief Direc- 
tor of Purchase, a Director of Purchase, a Joint Director of Purchase 
a Deputy Director of Purchase or an Assistant Director of Purchase' 
Technical Adviser, Deputy Technical Adviser and Assistant Technical 
Adviser, 


2. (a) All contracts and other instruments relating to the execution of works 

C T ne ,li e& f wlt j 1 ^he additions and alterations to buildings 
and plants and with foundations and housing, installation and opera- 
tion of machinery and electric and sanitary installations; and 

<b > security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
servants; by the Director General of Food , Joint Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Took and Agriculture? Deputy 

hiding ihTt full °J F °r% a P e ^y Secretary to the Government of 
India m the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, an Under Secretary to 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture or 
, e/ D , lre A ctor of Purchase. Technical Adviser, Deputy Technical 
Adviser and Assistant Technical Adviser. 


3. (a) Leases of houses, lands or other immovable property; and (b) All ser- 
vice Agreements; by the Director General of Food. Deputy Director General of 
Food, a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, in the Ministry of Food and 
Agriculture an Under Secretary to the Government of India, in the Ministry of 
Food and Agriculture, Regional Directors (Food). Directors Joint Directors 
Deputy Directors, or the Chief Director of Purchase. ‘ 


4. All instruments and contracts relating to disposal of offal belonging to 
Government; by the Director General of Food, Deputy Director General of mod 
a Deputy Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Food) 
and Agriculture, an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Food and Agriculture, Regional Directors (Food), Directors, Joint Directors, 
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, Chief Director of Purchase, a Director of 
Purchase, a Joint Director of Purchase, a Deputy Director of Purchase or an Assis- 
tant Director of Purchase. 


5. Agreement and other instruments, including release orders, relating to the 
sale of food grains; by the Regional Directors (Food). Directors, Joint Directors, 
Deputy Directors and Assistant Directors, Technical Officers. Godown Superinten- 
dents and Senior Godown Keepers, Department of Food. 

6. In the case of contracts relating to sugar: — 

(a) Contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase or sale of 
sugar; by the Chief Director, Directors and Deputy Directors in the 
Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati or an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture In 
charge of sugar . 

fb) Contracts and other instruments relating to the supply, clearance, con- 
veyance, or carriage of sugar; by the Chief Director, Directors, Deputy 
Directors and Assistant Directors in the Directorate of Sugar and 
Vanaspati or an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture in charge of sugar or the Directors 
in the Department of Food or the Regional Directors (Food), Joint 
Directors or Deputy Directors, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras or the 
Secretary to the Government of Assam, Supply 'A’ Department or 
the Assistant Directors (Supply), Government of Assatm. 

(c) Contracts and other instruments relating to lease of houses, godowns, 
lands or other immovable properly by an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture in 
charge of sugar. Chief Director, Directors, Deputy Directors in the 
Directorate of Sugar and Vanaspati, or Regional Directors (Food) and 
Deputy Directors, Bombay, Calcutta and madras. 

V. Contracts and other instruments refuting to the National Sugar Institute, 
■Kanpur; by the Director, National Sugar Institute, Kanpur. 



£86 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 29, 1960/VAISAKHA 9, 1888 [n*T IJ- 


8. In the case of contracts relating to fisheries: — 

(a) Contracts and other instruments relating to the fisheries extension 
Units; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture or an Under Secretary to the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture in charge of 
Fisheries Development Schemes. 


(b) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Deep Sea Fishing- 

Station, Bombay and the Deep Sea Fishing Sub-station, Veraval; by 
the Superintending Engineer , Deep Sea Fishing Station, Bombay. 

(c) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Off-shore Fishing 

Station at Mangalore, Veraval, Cochin, Tutlcorin and Visakhapatnam; 
by the Superintending Engineer Deep Sea Fishing Station, Bombay or 
the Deputy Director/ Assistant Director in administrative charge of 
the Station concerned. 


(d) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Marine Fishe- 

ries Research Institute, Mandapam Camp, by the Director, Central 
Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Mandapam Camp. 

(e) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Centr al Inland Fishe- 

ries Research Institute, Barrachkpore; by the Director, Central Inland 
Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore. 


(f) Contracts and othe- Instruments relating to the Central Institute of 
Fisheries Technology, ErnakuJam; by the Director, Central Institute 
of Fisheries Technology , Ernakulam. 


<{?) 

(h) 


Contracts and other instruments relating to the Central Institute of 
Fisheries Education, Bombay; by the Director, Central Institute of 
Fisheries Education, Bombay. 

Contacts and other instruments relating to the Indo-Norwegian Pro- 
ject, Ernakulam; by Director, Indo-Norwegian Project, Ernakulam. 


9. All contracts regarding the purchase of foodgrams in Australia, by the 
Indian Government Trade Commissioner in Australia and the High Commissioner 
for India in Australia; in London through the Australian Wheat Committee, Lon- 
don- by the High Commissioner for India, London and the Minister (Economic) 
in the High Commission of India, London; in Argentina , by the Ambassador for 
India in Argent la; in Burma, by the Ambassador for India in Burma; m the U.A.JL, 
by th e Ambassador for India in the U.A.R., In Thailand, by the Ambassador for 
India in Thailand. 


C. In the 
operation. 


case of the Department of Community Development and Co- 


1 (11 all contracts and instruments relating to purchase!, hire, repair and 

’ carriage of materials, stores, machinery, etc.; 

(ii) all contracts and agreements relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 
and waste stores; and 

dill all guarantees undertaking to pay water and electric charges to the 

^ ’ Delhi Municipal Corporation/New Delhi Municipal Committee on 

behalf of Government servants (Including gazetted officers! etc., em- 
ployed in the Ministry of Community Development and Cooperation, 

n11 frnarnntees to be afforded on behalf of the Central Government to 

(lv) IS Bank of India, State Bank of India and the Agricultural 
Refinance Corporation against borrowings from them; by an Under 
S "C ret ary to th ° Government of India, Department of Community 
Development and Cooperation.* 

2. In the case of the National Institute of Community Development; 

(a) all instruments relating to purchase, supply or conveyance or carriage 
of materials, stores and machinery; 

fv, nrrr cements relating to catering in hostels and messes; bp the Principal, 
National Institute of Community Development or a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Department of Community Deve- 
lopment and Cooperation. 




Sic. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 83, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 68*7 


(c) agreements and contracts relating to lease of houses, land or other 
immovable property; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of 
India in the Department of Community Development and Coopera- 
tion. 

VIII. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH: 

(1) Contracts and other instruments for the Medical Store Depots: 

(a) All contracts and Instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 

ance or carriage of medical stores and machinery; by the Director 
General of Health Services, the Director of Administration, Assistant 
Director General of Health Services (Stores), Deputy Assistant Direc- 
tor General (Medical Stores), Medical Stores Depots, Depot Manager, 
Medical Store Depot, Hyderabad, Deputy Director General Health 
Services (C.G.H.S.) or Assistant Director General (C.G.H.S.) ■ 

(b) All Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 

nected with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants and 
foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary instal- 
lations; by the Director General of Health Services, the Director of 
Administration, Assistant Director General of Health Services (Stores), 
Deputy Assistant Director General (Medical Stores ), Medical Stores 
Depots, Deputy Director General Health Services ( C.G.H.S .) or Assis- 
tant Director General (C.G.H.S.) . 

(21 In the case of the Port/Airport Health Organisations under the Central 
Government: 

Contracts for the supply of articles of dead stock or petty supplies or for the 
sale of useless, unclaimed or confiscated articles; by the Port Health 
Officers Madras Bombay, Calcutta, Vishakapatnam, Kandla or Cochin 
or the Airport HeaVh Officer, Bombay Airport (Santa Cruz), Calcutta 
Airport (Dum Dum), Tiruchirapalli, or Delhi Airport (Palam). 

I'D In the case of (1) the Ma'aria Institute of India, Delhi (now called 

g* « hC andT*?!) 

m Contracts for the supply of articles of food and fodder for animals or of 
(1) C °otlier articles requfred for Laboratory work; by the Directors of the 
respective institutions. 

B.C.G. Vaccine Laboratory, Gumdy, Madras. 

(4) In the case of the Serologist and Chemical Examiner to the Government of 
India, Calcutta: — 

Contracts for the purchase of a^mals D f r °f duSeTof fLlto^for^sudh 
of India, Calcutta. 

(5) In the case of the Hospital for Mental Diseases, Ranchi: 

' Coatr.C .« 

mT S, Hospital lot Mental Disease*. Ranch,. 

(0) In the case of the College of Nursing, New Delhi: 

aintra cles f f°o r r t the : mlt/ of the ' clffi Hoftefby Fhe^rTcipat S&f * 

Nursing, New Delhi. 

CD In the case of the Lady Reading Health School, Delhi: 

(71 in t e „ , | vegetables provisions and other arti* 

Co "' r °et ,*£ “LTSfot fte &h»i SSel; b# f*. Superintendent, Leiy 
Reading Health School , Delhi. 



(588 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8. 18*8 fPjwtT II- 


(8) In the caste of the Rural Health Training Centre, Najafgarh: 

Contracts for the supply of food-stuffs, vegetables, provisions and other arti- 
cles for the health centres and the hostel; by the Officer4n-ChaTge 
Rural Health Training Centre, Najafgarh. 

(91 In the case of Safdarjang Hospital, New Delhi and Willingdon Hospital & 
Nursing Home, New Delhi: — 

Contracts for the supply of food-stuffs, vegetables and other articles for the 
hospitals and also contracts for cycle stands; by the Medical Super- 
intendents of the Safdarjang and Willingdon Hospitals, New Delhi. 

(10) In the case of the Family Planning Organisation in the Directorate Gene- 
ral of Health Services, New Delhi: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance 
or carriage of medicines and machinery etc,; by the Director, Family 
Planning, New Delhi. 

(11) In all other cases pertaining to the Directorate General of Health Services 
and the offices subordinate to it: — 

All deeds and instruments relating to any matters other than those herein- 
before specified; by the Director General of Health Services or the 
Director of Administration. 

IX. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS: 

A. 1. Security Bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
servants; by a Deputy Secretary to the Govemfment of India in the Ministry of 
Home Affairs, the Director, Intelligence Bureau, the Inspector General, Delhi Spe- 
cial Police Establishment , the Registrar General of India, the Commandant, Cen- 
tral Police Training College, Mount Abu, the Director, Co-ordination (Police Wire- 
less), the Director, Secretariat Training School, New Delhi, the Director, Central 
Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur, the Director, Central Bureau of 
Correctional Services. 

2. Bonds from trainees selected for admission into the training College/Centre; 
by the Commandant of a Battalion in the Central Reserve Police. 

3. Bonds from Government servants (under the administrative control of the 
Registrar General of India) selected for award of scholarships or fellowships in 
foreign countries; by the Registrar General of India. 

4. Contracts for running the catering service at the hostels of the National Fire 
Service College, Nagpur and the Central Emergency Relief Training Institute, 
Nagpur: by the Director General of Civil Defence or the Deputy Director General 
of Civil Defence. 

5. Contracts for the purchase of milk (including curd) and firewood required 
for consumption in the Central Reserve Police Hospital, Neemuch; by the Medical 
Superintendent and Staff Surgeon, Central Reserve Police Hospital, Neemuch. 

6 Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance subscrip- 
tions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals, etc, for use in the 
Central Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur; by the Director, Central 
Emergency Relief Training Institute, Nagpur. 


7, Contracts with private parties for the transportation of stores, rations etc., 
to eheck posts in the State of Jummu and Kashmir; by the Assistant Director, In- 
telligence Bureau at Leh. 


8 Contracts and other instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 
ance’, or carriage of rations and other articles of food and fuel for internees in 
the Central Internment Camp, Deoli; by the Commandant, Central Internment 
Camp , Deoli. 


9 Leases of land, houses and other immovable property, m so far as such 
leases relate to and fall within their respective jurisdiction; by the Director In- 
telligence , Bureau, the Deputy Director Intelligence Bureau, the Commandant, 
Central Forensic Institutes. Calcutta, the Inspector General, Central Reserve 
Police the Commandant, Central Police Training College, Mount Abu, the 
Deputy Inspector General , Delhi Special Police Establishment, the Directcrr Lo- 
omhwtton (Police Wireless) the Director, Central Bureau of Correctional Ser- 
vices, the Director, National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie. 



See. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 <$9 


10. Service contracts for the repair and maintenance of water-coolers installed 
in office-buildings occupied by the Ministry of Home Affairs in Delhi and New 
Delhi; by an Under Secretary or a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Home Affairs. 


n he J for the purchase of dry and fresh ration 

for the Indo-Tibet an Border Police; by the Special Inspector General t Indo-Tibe - 
tan Border Police; Deputy Inspector General, Indo-Tibetan Border Police ■ A 

^ ordei Police, A Company Commander, Indo-Ttbe- 


B. In the case of Union Public Service Commission: — 

1. (i) Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted by the 
Government to Officers and members of the staff of the Union Public 
Service Cornmission for tho purchase of motor cars, motor cycles or 
sites for building houses or for building houses; 

(fl) Contracts relating to advances for the purchase of daily newspapers, 
journals or periodicals, for the Union Public Service Commission; 

Oil) Guarantee undertakings to pay water and electric charges to the Delhi 
Municipal Corporation/New Delhi Municipal Committee on behalf 
of Government servants (including gazetted officers) employed in the 
Office of the Union Public Service Commission; 

(iv) Guarantee undertakings to pay water and electricity charges to the 
Delhi Municipal Corporafion/New Delhi Municipal Committee In 
respect of the buildings occupied by the office of the Union Public 
Service Commission; 

(v) (a) purchase, hire, repair, polishing, painting, clearance, conveyance 
or carriage of materials including furniture, stores, machines, rail- 
way and air parcels, 

(b) washing and cleaning of towels and other items belonging to the 

office; 

(c) disposal of waste paper and obsolete 3tores; 

(d) supply of casual labour required for office work; 

(e) binding of books; 

(f) tiffin room, fruit/betal stall and cycle stand; 

(vl) Advances for the purchase of table Fans to Class Staff; by the Under 
Secretary in the Union Public Service Commission, 

X. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY; 

1. (1) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 

ance or carriage of materials, stores, machinery; 

(ii) Security bonds for due performance and completion of work and all 
service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 
duties by Government servants; 

(ili) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property; 

(iv) Miscellaneous contracts and instruments not specified above; by a 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Industry and Supply, 

2. All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals etc; by a 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Industry and 
Supply, the Deputy Economic Adviser, Deputy Salt Commissioner, Jaipur / Bombay / 
Mat Iras, Assistant Salt Commissioner, Calcutta /Mandi, Controller General of 
Patents, Designs and Trade Marks, 

3. Contracts and assurances of property relating to the Salt Administration 
under the Salt Commissioner: 

(i) All contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to the execution of 
salt works or the purchase, sale or transport of salt; the supply of 
labour, stores, building materials, and any other like engagements 



590 ™ GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [PjpiT II- 


relating to the Salt Administration; by the Salt Commissioner or 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Bombay/Madras or Assistant Salt Com- 
missioner, Calcutta /Mandi, within their respective jurisdiction, 

(ii) (a) Contracts for the lease of land in control of Salt Administration 
where such lease is otherwise permissible; 

(b) Leases of land and leases and surrender of buildings or other im- 

movable property; 

(c) Security bonds in connection with the employment of Cashiers find 

other subordinates who are required to handle Government money 
in the course of their official duty; and 

(d) Contracts or other instruments for the purchase, supply and con- 

veyance of furniture and stores; by the Salt Commissioner or De- 
puty Salt Commissioner, Jaipur /Madras/ Bombay or Assistant Salt 
Commissioner, Calcutta/ Mandi, ivithin their respective jurisdiction. 

(Ill) Lease of land for salt manufacture; by Salt Commissioner or Deputy 
Salt Commissioner, Bombay/Madras or Assistant Salt Commissioner, 
Calcutta/ Mandi, within their respective jurisdiction. 

(iv) Leases of land for salt manufacture In Government Salt Factories in 

the States of Madras, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala; by the Deputy 
Salt Commissioner, Madras or Assistant Salt Commissioners, within 
their respective jurisdictions. 

(v) Leases of Government Salt Factories in Bombay; by the Deputy Salt 

Commissioner, Bombay. 

(vl) All contracts and other instruments relating to the execution of Salt 
works or the purchase, sale or transport of salt, the supply of labour 
or the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of stores, build- 
ing materials, machinery, and contracts for petty construction and 
repairs and for public works of every description which are executed 
by the Salt Administration; by the Assistant Commissioner of Salt y 
■within their respective jurisdictions and within the limit of the value 
of Rs. 5,000. 

(vii) Contracts and other instruments relating to Salt imported into the 
States of West Bengal, and Orissa by Sea; by the Salt Commissioner 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Jaipur or within the limit of the value of 
Rs. 5,000 by the Assistant Salt Commissioner, Calcutta. 

(viii) Leases of land situated within and outside the declared area of a salt 
factory and unfit for salt manufacture, but fit for; 

(a) Grow More Food Campaign; 

(b) Paddy cultivation; 

(c) Building residential quarters; 

(d) Casuarina plantation; or 

(e) Any other purpose sanctioned by a competent authority; 

by the Deputy Salt Commissioner, Bombay/Madras or Assistant Salt Commis- 
sioner, Mandi/ Calcutta, within their respective jurisdiction. 


(lx) Leases of fishing right and acceptance of tenders thereof. 

(a) If the amount of value does not exceed Rs, 5,000 in each case; by the 
Deputy Salt Commissioner in Jaipur or Madras or Bombay or an 
Assistant Salt Commissioner, within his respective jurisdiction; 
and 


(b) If such amount or value exceeds Rs. 5,000 in each case; by the ualt 
Commissioner. 

Cxi Service Acreements, by a Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Industry 
and Sunn 1 !/ in resnect of Class I ynsts and Salt Com m> oner in res- 
pect of General Central Service (Class II and Class III) Posts. 

4 (I) Contracts and other instruments relating to the Office of, Ihe Develop- 
mint Commissioner, for Small Scale Industries, by the Development 



Sic, 8 ( 1 )} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, IMa/VAISAKHA 8 , 18$8 


Commissioner for Small Scale Industries, the Joint Development 
Commissioner or the Director; 

(ii) contracts and assurances relating' to Small Industries Service Institutes; 
by Directors of the concerned Small Industries Service Institute; 

(ml contracts and other instruments relating to the Northern /Eastern/ 
Western /Southern Small Scale Industries Public Works Division; by 
the Deputy Director ( Industrial Colonies and Construction ) concern- 
ed; 

(iv) contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance subscrip- 
tions for the purchase of newpapers, magazines, periodicals etc. re- 
lating to Small Industries Service Institutes and Extension Centres 
under them, by the Head of office; and those relating to the office of 
the Development Commissioner, Spiall Scale Industries, by the Joint 
Development Commissioner; 

(v) (a) security Bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof, in 
Small Industries Service Institutes and Extension Centres under 
them; 

(b) service agreements in Small Industries Service Institutes and Ex- 

tension centres imder them: 

(c) contracts relating to leases of land, houses and other immovable pro- 

perties in the Small Industries Service Institutes; 

by the Director: and in the office of the Developrnent Commissioner, Small Scale 
Industries, by the Joint Development Commissioner . 

3. Contracts and assurances of property relating to the administration of the 
Trade and Merheandise Marks Act, 195B under the Controller General of Patents, 
Designs and Trade Marks; 

(i) contracts for work relating to the printing of Trade Marks Journal; 

(ii) security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bond) in connection with the 

employment of Cashiers and other subordinates who are required to 
handle Government money in the course of their official duty; and 

. (iii » all contracts and other instruments relating to payment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc; by the Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks. 

6. Contracts for work relating to printing of patent specifications and other 
allied publications of the Patent office; by the Controller General of Patents, De- 
signs and Trade Marks. 

XI IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROAD- 
CASTING:— 


1. In the case of All India Radio: — 

(i) contracts and other instruments relating to the All India Radio; by the 
Director General, the Deputy Director General (Administration), Pro- 
ject Officers, Station Director, or where there is no Station Director, by 
an Assistant Station Director, Deputy Director (Administration), Deputy 
Development Officer (Administration), Director of News Services 
Division, Director of External Services Division, Director of Transcrip- 
tion and Programme Exchange Services, Director, Monitoring Service 
Unit Research Engineer, Maintenance Engineer or the Station Engi- 
neer’ (Wire Broadcasting ) , the Station Engineer / Assistant Station En- 
gineer-in-charge of Auxiliary /Vividh Bharati Centre of A.I.R.; 


(H) 

(iii) 


all contracts and other instruments relating to engineering matters of 
AIR by the Chief Engineer; 

all contracts and instruments relating to the publication of the Radio 
Journals; by the Editor or the Assistant Editor of the Radio Journal 
concerned; 


(Iv) contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by All India Radio"' 
by the Deputy Director of News Services, Administrative Officer News 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : A PR IT. 28, 1938/VA1SARJTA 8, 1888 [Pa*t II- 


Services Division, Deputy Directors of External Services, Assistant 
Station Directors, or by the Programme Executive. 

2. In the case of the Press Information Bureau: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to — 

(i) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, equip- 

ments and repairs and servicing thereof; 

(ii) disposal of surplus obsolete and waste stores; by the Principal Informa~ 

tion Officer, the Deputy Principal Information Officer, the Assistant 
Principal Information Officer and. Information Officer, Jullundur. 

3. In the case of the Publications Division: — 

(i) all contracts and instruments relating to the writing of books copyright: 
by the Director or the Deputy Director (Editorial); 

(il) all contracts and instruments relating to the printing and production of 
publications; by the Director or the Deputy Director ( Production ) ; 

(iii) all contracts and instruments relating to the sale, agency, stocking of 

publications and advertisements published in such publication; by the 
Director, the Business Manager in so far as such contracts and instru- 
ments relate to and fall within his jurisdiction; 

(iv) Agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, and other materials (in- 
cluding waste material); by the Director or the Deputy Director. 

4. In the case of Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity: 

(1) (a) all contracts and instruments relating to the advertisements, printing, 
publishing or issue of publications, space selling or exhibitions; 

(b) rate contracts for booking of space in newspapers, journals, etc.; 

(c) contracts relating to the production or display of various kinds of 

outdoor publicity material; by the Director of Advertising and Visual 
Publicity or the Deputy Director of Advertising and Visual Publicity; 

(ii) (a) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, equipment and other 

materials (including waste material); 

(b) contracts with private contractors for the carriage of consignments of 
stores, from or to the Headquarters; 

(c) contracts for the supply /purchase of publications; by the Director of 
Advertising and Visual Publicity or the Deputy Director (Adminis- 
tration) ; 

(iii) contracts and instruments relating to exhibitions upto Rs. 5,000-00 in 

each case; by the Exhibition Officer; 

(iv) contracts and instruments relating to printing upto Rs. 10,000 00 in each 

case; by the Production Manager. 

(v) contracts relating to the production or display of various kinds of out- 

door publicity material upto Rs. 5,000-00; by the Outdoor Publicity 
Officer. 

(vi) contracts and instruments relating to printing upto Rs. 1,000-00 in each 

case; by the Assistant Production Manager; 

(vii) (a) letters of Indemunity prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India for 
issue of duplicate Demand Drafts. 

(b) transfer of deposit certificate forms required by the postal authorities 
for pledging the deposit certificates in favour of the President of India; 
by the Drawing and Disbursing Officer. 

5. In the case of the Films Division: — 

(i) (a) contracts and other instruments relating to (he purchase of the films 
for the Film Division; 




Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 19GG/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 693; 


(b) contracts and other instruments for the production of films for Gov- 

ernment by private producers; 

(c) all contracts relating to the commercial distribution of Films Division’s 

films in foreign countries; 

(d) service agreements entered into with musicians, artistes and Com- 

mentary Writers, etc., engaged on monthly fee basis; 

(e) contracts relating to the processing work of the Films Division; 

(f) contracts and other instruments relating to the production of films in 

collaboration with organisations, e.g. UNESCO, W.H.O. etc.; 
by the Controller of the Films Division. 

(ii) (a) contracts with private distributors in India for the distribution of full 

length films released by the Films Division; 

(b) contracts for the sale of waste films, sweeping (or other salvage 

material); 

(c) contracts for sale of stock shots; 

(d) contracts for sale of prints of films produced and/or released by the 
Films Division; 

by the Officer-in-Charge of Distribution. 

(iii) (a) contracts and other instruments for the purchase of packing boxes 

and other stores; 

(b) contracts for the sale of waste paper and other unserviceable and 

salvaged materials; 

(c) all contracts and instruments for the loan of Cinematographic equip- 

ment etc. to State Governments and private producers; 

(d) contracts and other instruments relating to advances g: anted to Gov- 

ernment servants for the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles 
or houses or for building houses or for medical attendance and 
treatment or for festivals or for floods, etc., or advances of Pay and 
T.A, on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to persons proceeding 
on deputation abroad, or advances in respect of travel concession 
scheme during regular leave; 

(el security bonds of cashiers and other Govt, servants or their sureties, 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(f) agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the 
accommodation of officer at places other than New Delhi, Simla, 
Calcutta and Bombay provided that such hiring Is within the com- 
petence of the Controller of the Films Division and that the period 
of lease does not exceed five years at a time; 

(g) contracts and other instruments relating to repairs, servicing etc. of 
equipment, motor and all other types of vehicles or any other Govt, 
property; 

by the Administrative Officer; 

fiv) all contracts and instruments relating to indemnity bonds for shooting 
facilities obtained for production of films; by the Production Manager, 
Films Division; 

(v) contracts to be entered into with artistes engaged by the Films Division 
in connection with the production of films; by the Administrative 
Officer or the Production Manager; 

(vl) (a) all contracts for supply of films on rental for commercial and non- 
commercial exhibition and free of rentals for non-commercial ex- 
hibition In India; 

(b) Indemnity bonds to be executed for taking delivery of parcels from 
Railways and other carriers; 

by the Branch Manager ; Films Division or Officer-in-charge of Distribution. 

(vii) all contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance sub- 
scriptions for newspapers, magazines, journals, periodicals etc.; 
Administrative Officer, Films Division, or Branch Manager, Films- 
Division. 



$94 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pjgtr li- 


ft. In the case of the Directorate of Field Publicity: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to — 

(i) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

equipment and repairs thereof; 

(ii) disposal of surplus and obsolete stores; 

(iii) registered dramatic troupes and artistes relating to the Song and Drama 

Division; 

(iv) hiring of accommodation; 

(v) security documents submitted by Accountants; 

by the Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Pub- 
licity. ^ 1 

7. In the case of the Song and Drama Division: — 

(1) (a) Contracts with authors of scripts for the purchase of copyright; 

(b) agreements for the purchase or sale of stores, equipment and materials 
(including waste materials) ; 

by the Director, Song and Drama Division. 

(ii) contracts with artistes and dramatic troupes; by the Director, Deputy 
Directors, Administrative Officer, Song and Drama Division, Regional 
Officers, Assistant Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity, 
Field Publicity Officers, Mass Contract Officers, Publicity Organisers, 
Directorate of Field Publicity. 

8. In the case of the Central Board of Film Censors: — 

•Contracts and instruments relating to: — 

(i) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage and servicing of stores, 

materials, equipment, etc.; 

(ii) disposal of waste Aims, paper and other obsolete stores and materials; 
by the Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors. 

9. In the case of the Research and Reference Division: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to the: — 

(I) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of material, storos, equip- 
ment etc.; 

(ii) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste paper; 

(iii) binding of books, newspapers, etc.; 

(iv) payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, 

magazine, periodicals, etc.; and 

(v) arrangement for extermination of white ants; 

by the Deputy Director, Research and Reference Division. 

10. In the case of the Photo Division: — 

All contracts and instruments relating to the: — 

(i) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores and 

equipment and repair thereof; 

(ii) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; 

(iii) sale of waste films, sweepings or other salvage materials; 
by the Chief Photo Officer, Photo Division. 

11. In the case of the Film Institute of India: 

All contracts and instruments relating to the: — 

(i) (a) sale of waste films and other scrap materials; 

(b) purchase of films for the Film Institute; 

(c) allotment of canteens tiffin rooms, etc.; 
by the Administrative Officer, Film Institute. 



Sec. 5(1)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2 8/ 1966/VAISARHA 3, 1888 695 


(ii) all contracts relating to renting of Studio and other facilities to pri- 
vate producers in connection with the production of films; by the 
Principal, Film Institute. 

12. Security bonds of cashiers and other Gove nment Servants whom the 
officers specified below have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secure the 
due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; by the Director General, All India Radio, Deputy 
Director General (Administration) , All India Radio, Deputy Director of Adminis- 
tration, All India Radio , Deputy Development Officer (Administration) , All India- 
Radio, Principal Information Officer, Director, Publications Division, Deputy 
Director (Administration ) , Publications Division, Director of Advertising and 
Visual Publicity, Deputy Director (Administration ) , Directorate of Advertising 
and Visual Publicity, Administrative Officer, Films Division, Director of Field. 
Publicity, Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity. Information Officer, 
Press Information Bureau while working in the Kerala Region of the Directorate 
of Field Publicity, Director, Song and Drama Division, Chairman, Central Board 
of Film Censors, Deputy Director, Research and Reference Division, Registrar of 
Newspapers for India, Principal or the Administrative Officer, Film Institute of 
India. 

13. Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings required for the accom- 
modation of offices at places other than New Delhi, Simla, Calcutta and Bombay 
provided that such hiring is within his competence and that the period of lease 
does not exceed 5 veal’s at a time: by all officers specified in clause l(i) concern- 
ing the All India Radio, Principal Information Officer. Press Information Bureau, 
Director or Deputy Director, Publications Division, Deputy Director (Adminis- 
tration), Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity, Administrative Officer. 
Films Division, Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of the Directorate of 
Field Publicity, Information Officer, Press Information Bureau while working in 
the Kerala Region of the Directorate of Field Publicity. 

14. All .contracts and instruments relating to repairs, servicing, etc., of equip- 
ment, typewriters, moviolas, motor and all other types of vehicles, bicycles or 
any other Government property; bp the Director or Deputy Director Publications 
Division, Director or the Deputy Director (Administration) , Directorate of Adver- 
tising and Visual Publicity, Administrative Officer, Films Division, Chairman, 
Central Board of Film Censors, Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers of 
the Directorate of Field Publicity, Information Officer, Press Information Bureau 
while working in the Kerala Region of the Directorate of Field Publicity. Director, 
Song and Drama Division, Administrative Officer , Film Institute of India. 

15. All contracts and instruments relating to the payment of advance sub- 
scriptions for newspapers, magazines, journals, etc.; by an Under Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, all officers 
specified in clause l(i) concerning All India Radio, Principal Information Officer. 
Deputy PrincixHil Information Officer, Assistant Principal Information Officer, 
Information Officers Ernakulam/Ahme.dabad/Srinagar/'Jullundur, Director or 
Deputy Director (Administration), Publications Division. Director or Deputy 
Director ( Administration ), Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity, Branch 
Manager (in the case of Branches) and Assistant Administrative Officer (in the 
case of main office) of the Films Division. Chairman Central Board of Film Cen- 
sors, Director of Field Publicity, Regional Officers, Directorate of Field Publicity, 
Information Officer , Press Information Bureau while working in the Kerala Region 
of the Directorate of Field Publicity, Deputy Director, Research and Reference 
Division , Administrative Officer, Film Institute. 

16. All service agreements with the gazetted and non-eazctled officers, musi- 
cians, artistes, Commentary Writers, etc., etc., whom they have power to oopcint 
for specified neriod of service: by all officers sepcifled in clause 1 (i) concerning 
All India Radio, Director, Publications Division, Controller of Films Division. 

XII. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF IRON AND STEEL:— 

1. (a) contracts and/or other Instruments relating to the payments of advance 
subscriptions for the purpose of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc.; by Deputy Director (Administration ) , Office of Iron am! Steel 
Controller, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the case 
of Department of Iron and Steel, 

(b) security bonds of cashiers and other -Government servants or their sure- 
ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by Iron and Steel 



6g6 THF - GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 /VAISAKHA 8, 1888 [Pa*t tt- 


Controller, an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the case 
of Department of Iron and Steel. 

2. (a) Bonds and guarantees submitted by importers/exporters in connection 

with the clearance/export of goods for the due fulfilment of conditions 
imposed on the importers/exporters; 

(b) all contracts and/or other instruments relating to purchase, supply and 

conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, machinery, etc.; and 

(c) security bonds for the performance and completion of works; 

by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Iron 
and Steel and the Iron and Steel Controller , or the Deputy Ifon and Steel Control- 
ler, or the Price and Accounts Officer, or the Deputy Price and Accounts Officer, 
or the Deputy Director (Administration), Calcutta. 

3. All agreements and/or instruments relating to the appointment and Control 
of Stock holders and re-rolling mills and supply of materials by such stock holders 
and mill3; by the Iron and Steel Controller or the Deputy Iron and Steel Controller 
or the Price and Accounts Officer or Deputy Price and Accounts Officer or Deputy 
Director (Administration) . 

4. All contracts/or instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obselete and 
waste stores (controlled categories of steel items only! located in India and be- 
longing to the Defence Services, Civil Departments of the Government of India, 
State Governments or Quasi-Government institutions, such as PORT TRUSTS 
etc.: by the Iron and Steel Controller and Deputy Iron and Steel Controller, Assis- 
tant Iron and Steel Controller, Price and Accounts Officer, Deputy Price and 
Accounts Officer or Assistant Accounts Officer. 

XUI. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION & POWER: — 

A. (i) All service agreements; by Joint Secretary^ Chief Engineer (Ganga 
Barrage) or a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Irrigation & Power or Member, Central Water and Power 
Commission; 

(ii) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure- 

ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by Joint Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & Power, or 
Chairman, Central Water and Power Commission. 

(iii) contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc.; by Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary or a Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & 
Power and Chairman or Secretary in the Central Water and Power 
Commission; 

(Iv) leases of land, houses and other immovable properties; by a Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation & 
Power and Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer in the Cen- 
tral Water and Power Commission. 


B. In the case of the Central Water and Power Commission; — 


1. (a) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or car- 
riage of materials, stores, magazines and periodicals; 


(b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds, con- 
nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, docks 
and harbours and embankments, generation and transmission of 
electricity and instruments relating to the construction of water 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery, the working of coal 
mines and bulk supply of electricity; 


(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 

(d) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants; by the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Members , Chief Engi - 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 23. 1966/VAISAK.IIA 3, I 8 S 8 697 


neers, Deputy Chief Engineer , Secretary, Directors, Superintending 
Engineers, Deputy Directors or Executive Engineers. 

2. Leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing in 

canals, for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes, leases of water power and instruments relating to sale 
of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in plantations; by 
Chairman, Chief Engineers, Directors, Superintending Engineers, Exe- 
cutive Engineers, or Sub -Divisional Officers. 

3. (a) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property provided that the 

rent reserved docs not exceed Rs. 5,000 a month; 

(b) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 
security; 

!c) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 
timber passing into a canal; and 

(d) agreements relating to crossing on canals, roads and bunds; 
by Chairman, Members, Chief Engineer, Directors, Superintending Engineers, 
Executive Engineers or Deputy Directors. 

4. Instruments connected with the collection or framing of tools at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communication; by Chairman, Members, 
Chief Engineers, Directors, Superintending Engineers, Deputy Direc- 
tors or Executive Engineers. 

5. Agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

other; by Superintending Engineers, Directors, Deputy Directors or 
Divisional Officers. 

6. Agreements for catering contracts in hostels and tiffin rooms nr for the 

E rotection of conveyance, belonging to the staff working in public 
uildings; by Chief Engineer, Directors or Executive Engineers. 

7. Instruments relating to the sale of immovable property (lands and build- 
ings) the book value of which does not exceed Rs. 10,000; by Chairman. 

8. Agreements with retail distributors for the distribution of rationed arti- 
cles; by Chairman, Members or Chief Engineers, 

C. In the case of the Ganga Discharge Circle: — 

1. (a) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 
of materials, stores, magazines and periodicals; 

(b) all instruments relating to the execution of wo'ks of all kinds con- 
nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, docks 
and harbours and embankments, generation and transmission of elec- 
tricity and instruments relating to the construction of water-works, 
sewage works, the erection of machinery, the working of coal mines 
and bulk supply of electricity; 

(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the duo performance and 
completion of works; 

(d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
officers specified below have powers to appoint or their sureties, te 
secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money 
or other property received by virtue thereof; and 

(e) leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing in 
canals, for the cultivation of lands, leases of water for irrigation and 
other purposes, leases of wate~ power and instruments relating to sale 
of grass, trees or other produce on road sides or in plantation; 
by Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineers, Assistant Executive Engi- 
neers, Assistant Engineers or Sub-Divisional Officers. 

2. (a) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property provided that the 
rent reserved does not exceed Rs. 5.000 a month; 

(h) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; 



<598 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pa|RT II- 


(c) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 

timber passing into a canal; 

(d) agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds; 

(e) instruments connected with the collection or farming of tolls at bridges 

or ferries or other means of communication; 

(f) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others; and 

(g) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection 

of conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings; 

by Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineers. 

D. In the case of Farakka Barrage Control Board [including Officer on Special 
Duty (Designs)]: — 

All service agreements pertaining to Gazetted Class I and II officers; by the 
Chief Engineer and Ex-offlelo Joint Secretary, Ministry of Irrigation and Power. 

Agreements relating to the service conditions of other Officers; by the authority 
competent to make the appointments concerned. 

E. In the case of the Farakka Barrage Project 

1. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Government 
servants for the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles or houses or for 
building houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festivals, 
marriages, funeral or other ceremonies or for floods etc. transfer and tour, or 
advances of pay to persons proceeding on deputation abroad or advances in res- 
pect of the Travel Concessions Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities 
granting the advance. 


2. All service agreements pertaining to the service conditions of officers; by the 
authority competent to make the appointments concerned. 

3 Agreements relating to lease, hire and taking on rent, or purchase of land 
or other immovable property like houses or other buildings; by Chief Engineer or 
Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer. 

4 Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
rented buildings (i) for hostels, tiffin rooms etc. (ii) for the protection of convey- 
ances belonging to the staff working in such rented bui 1 dings (ill) for co-operative 
stored/societies/banks/ canteens run by Employees’ association/societies; by the 
Chief Engineer in respect of accommodation hired for his offices and by the super- 
intending Engineer in respect of accommodation hired for his office as well as for 
his subordinate offices. 

5 Contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms or for the protection of 
conveyance belonging to the staff working in public buildings; by the personal 
Assistant to Chief Engineer or Administrative Officer so far as Chief Engineer s 
Office is concerned and by Superintending Engineer in respect of his offices and 
offices subordinate to him. 

0 Surety bonds relating to the grant of pension or provisional pension to Gov- 
ernment servants or to displaced Government servants; by the authority sanction- 
ing the pension or provisional pension. 

7. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Payment of advance subscrip- 
tion for the purchase of newspapers magazines,. periodicals etc by the Chief 
Engineer in respect of his office and by the Superintending Engineer in respect of 
his office and offices subordinate to him. 

8 Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sureties 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other 
property' received by virtue thereof; by the Chief Engineer m respect of the Chief 
Enmnelril office and by the Superintending Engineer concerned in respect of offices 

under him. 

9 (a) (i) All instruments relating to purchase, supply, conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores and machinery; 

fii) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 
(1 nected with building, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, docks 
and harbours and embankments, generation and transmission of 



SKC. «(1)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VABAKHA 3, 1888 699 


electricity and Instruments relating to the construction of water- 
works, sewage works, the erection of machinery, the working of 
coal mines and bulk supply of electricity; 

<iii) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 
completion of works; 

(iv) leases for grazing cattle on canal banks or road sides, for fishing in 

canals, for the cultivation of lands, water power and instruments 
relating to sale of grass, trees or other produce on roadsides or In 
plantations; 

(v) all instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as 

security; 

(vi) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or other 
timber passing into a canal; 

(vii) agreements relating to crossing of canals, roads and bunds; 

(viii) instruments connected with the collection or farming of tools at 
bridges or ferries or other means of communication; 
by the Chief Enaineer, Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers or 
Sub -Divisional Officer and Chief Purchase Officer; 

(b) agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others; by Superintending Engineers or Executive Engineers; 

(c) contracts, agreements, and the like which can be executed; 
by any authority, can also be executed by an authority superior to it, 

10. Instruments pertaining to all other items; by the Chief Engineer, even if the 
items fall outside the purview of the powers delegated to him, provided that the 
proposal relating to such items has been accepted by the competent authority. 

XIV— IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND 
REHABILITATION. 


A — In the case of Deptt. of Labour and Employment. 

1. All service agreements; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, 

2. Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the officers 
specified below have the power to appoint or their sureties, to secure the due 
execution of an office or the due accounting for money or other property received 
by virtue thereof; by the Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central ) , Deputy 
Labour Commissioner {Central), Regional Labour Commissioners {Central), the 
Presiding Officers of the National Tribunals /Industrial Tribunals/ Labour Courts of 
the Central Government appointed under the Industrial Disputes Act, 194 7, the 
Principals of Central Training Institutes for Instructors, the Director Labour Bureau, 
the Chief Adviser Factories, Joint Chief Adviser Factories, Director of Research 
(Technical), Deputy Chief Adviser Factories ( Safety Centre), Central Labour Insti- 
tute, Bombay; Director (Training) / Productivity/ TW I Centre, Bombay; Regional 
Director, Assistant Regional Director, Regional Labour Institute, Calcutta /Kanpur/ 
Madras ; Senior Inspector, Inspector, Dock Safety, Bombay /Calcutta/ Madras; the 
Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner, Dhanbad, the Welfare Commissioner Mica _Mme» 
Labour Welfare Fund in the State of Bihar, the Chairman Mica Mines Labour 
Welfare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra Pradesh/ Rajasthan, Chief Inspector 
of Mines and Deputy Chief Inspector of Mines. 

3. All contracts and other Instruments relating to the .payment of advance sub- 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals etc.; by an Under 
Secretary to the Goi, eminent of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
(in charge of Administration), Under Secretary in the Directorate General of Em- 
nlovment & Training, the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), Deputy Chief 
Labour Commissioner (Central), Regional Labour Commissioners ( Central ), 

ing Officers of the National Tribunals / Industrial Tribunals /Labou r Courts of the 
Central Government appointed under the Industrial Disputes the Director 

Labour Bureau, the Chief Adviser Factories, Joint Chief Adviser Factories the 
Inspector Dock Safety Bombay /Calcutta/ Madras, the Deputy Chief Adviser Fac- 
tories Productivity Centre Bombay/Training within Industry Centre Bombay, the 
a oo'rirtvit ArfT)i*iPT FOrCtoTles C&YitT(iL Zyd^oiLT InstitutB Borubfiy, the AssistCLjit 

Regional Doctor Regiona? 'LaV^r Institute Calcutta/ Kanpur/ Madras, the Chief 



700 .THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, I960 /VAKAKHA 3, 1888 [P^rt II- 


Inxpector of Mines, Additional Chief Inspector of Mines, Deputy Chief Inspector of 
Mines, Inspectors of Mines and Administrative Officer of the Office of the Chief 
Inspector of Mines, Regional Inspector of Mines, Principals, Central Training Insti- 
tutes for Instructors and Deputy Director Labour for Gorakhpur Labour Organisa- 
tion. 


4. Contracts and other instruments relating to purchase on lands or lease of 
buildings for the use of the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central’s) Organisation; 
by the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , Deputy Chief Labour Commissioner 
( Central ) and Regional Labour Commissioner t (Central). 

5. In the case of the Organisations of Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund in Coal 
Fields throughout India and the Mica Mines Labour Welfare Fund in the States of 
Bihar, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan: 


(i) (a) Contracts and other Instruments relating to purchase and transfer of 
lands, buildings and other property, the execution and maintenance of 
works of all kinds and any matter other than those herein-befor® 
specified; and 

(b) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 

by the Coal Mines Welfare Commissioner, the Welfare Commissioner Mica Mines 
Labour Welfare Fund in the State of Bihar, the Chairman Mica Mines Labour Wel- 
fare Fund Advisory Committee for Andhra Pradesh/ Rajasthan in the State of 
Andhra Pradesh/ Rajasthan, 

(li) All agreements relating to the construction works after the tenders have 
been approved by a competent authority; by Executive Engineers, Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund. 

6. In the case of the Gorakhpur Labour Organisation under the D.G.E. & T.: 


(i) all agreements and contracts for constructions/repairs duly approved by 

the competent authority; by Deputy Director (Labour), Gorakhpur; 

(ii) all agreements for the supply of blankets, c’oth etc. for the Gorakhpur 

Labour Depot; by the Director of Employment Exchanges (D.G.E.&T.) 

or the Deputy Director ( Labour ) Gorakhpur. 

7, Surety Bonds in respect of Labour Officers of the Central Pool deputed f°r 
training in short-term Social Work Course, stamp duty on which has been agreed 
to be borne by the Central Government; by the Head of Office concerned or any 
superior authority. 

B — In case of the Department of Rehabilitation; — 

1. Agreements with displaced Government Servants of former Indian States and 
Servants of Local Bodies in connection with Payments under the ad hoc daymen 
scheme, Indo-Fakistan Provisional Payments Scheme or the Government of India 
Interim Relief Scheme; by the Officer-in-Charge, Claims, Central Claims Organisa- 
tion, Ministry of Rehabilitation. 

2. Contracts and other instruments concerning the Hastinapur Town Develop- 
ment Board; by the Administrator or the Deputy Administrator Hastinapur Toum 
Development Board. 

3. All bonds relating to loans sanctioned to displaced persons before the 31st 
October, 1952, for their rehabilitation in Fulia Township, Fulia, District Nadia 
West Bengal; 'by the Administrator Fulia Township. 

4. Transfer deeds connected with the sale or lease of both Government built 
and evacuee properties or allotment or sale or lease of plots developed by th 
Government and allotted or sold or leased to displaced persons OT ,Societies of such 
displaced persons; by the Regional Settlement Commissioner an Additional Settle- 
ment Commissioner or Managing Officer, the Administrator Fulia Township or the 
Collector Ajmer, Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry oj 
Rehabilitation. 

5 Security bonds relating to payment of. compensation under rules W3)<^) and 
78(b) of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955, by 
the Regional Settlement Commissioner, the Additional Regional Settlement Com 
missioner, the Assistant Settlement Commissioners or the Settlement Officers . 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28. 1966/VAI&AKHA 3, 1888 y OI 


6. Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the removal of movable property from Pakistan under the Indo-Pakistan 
Moveable Property Agreement; by the Office of the High Commissioner for India in 
Pakistan, Karachi. 

7. Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India, in connection 
with the disbursement of sale proceeds of evacuee movable property received from 
the Government of Pakistan under the Indo-Paklstan Movable Property Agreement; 
by a Deputy Secretary/an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Rehabilitation, New Delhi. 

8. Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the delivery of evacuee fire-arms received from Ihe Government of Pakistan 
under the lndo-Pakistan Moveable Property Agreement; by the District Magistrate 
by whom the fire-arms are delivered. 

9. Agreements with displaced persons and other residents of India in connection 
with the delivery of jewellery etc. received from the Government of Pakistan under 
the Indo-Pakistan Movable Property Agreement; by a Deputy Secretary/ an Under 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Rehabilitation. 

10. Sanads granted under rule G8 ol the Displaced Persons (Compensation and 
Rehabilitation) Rules, 1955; by the Managing Officers concerned appointed under 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954) 
and in the States of Bombay, Mysore, Madras. Kerala and Andhra Pradesh aiso; 
by the Regional Settlement Commissioner, Bombay. 

11. Instruments transferring immovable property in pursuance of section 20 A of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954) in 
the Alwar and Bharatpur districts of Rajasthan; by the Collector ( Rehabilitation) , 
Ahrar or the Collector (Rehabilitation) Bharatpur. 

12. In the case of the Dandakaranya Project— 

(1) (a) All contracts and Instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 
ance or carriage of materials, stores, machinery, office furniture and 
other equipment and repairs thereof; 

(b) all contracts and instruments relating to the execution of works of all 

kinds connected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, : eservoirs 
and construction of water-works, sewage works and the erection of 
machinery; 

(c) security bonds for due performance, completion of works and contracts; 
by the Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineers , Executive Engineers, Assis- 
tant Engineers or by the Heads of Offices: 

(ii) leases of houses, land or other movable property provided the rent re- 

served does not exceed Rs. 5,000/- a month in each case; by the Chief 
Administrator, the Financial Adviser, Director of Agriculture or the 
Director (Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services); 

(iii) ah instrument relating to the sale of lands, buildings and other immov- 

able property; by the Chief Administrator, Financial Adviser, the 
Chief Engineer, the Director of Agriculture or the Secretary to the 
Dandakaranya Development Authority; 

(iv) leases, sales or allotments of plots developed by the Dandakaranya 

Development Authority to displaced persons; by the Chief Adminis- 
trator, the Director (Resettlement) or the Zonal Administrators: 

(v) bonds and agreements relating to all kinds of loans sanctioned to dis- 

placed persons for their rehabilitation in Dandakaranya; by the Chief 
Administrator, the Director ( Resettlement ) or the Administrators of 
the Zones; 

(vi) agreements relating to loan of machinery, tools and plant, and vehicles 

to contractors and others; by the Chief Engineer, Superintending En- 
gineers, or Executive Engineers; 

(vii) contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms in public buildings or 

for the prosecution of conveyances belonging to the staff working in 
such public buildings; by the Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineers, 
Executive Engineers or the Deputy Financial Adviser so far as con- 
tracts for catering are concerned; 

(vli ) agreements with wholesale and retail distributors for the sale of con- 
sumer goods; by the Chief Administrator or the Director (Stores Pur- 
chases) ; 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1960/VAtSAKHA 8, 1883 [P^rt II— 


(ix) (a) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or sureties 
to secure the due execution of an office or the accounting for money 
or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(b) all service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV ser- 

vants; 

(c) all contracts and instruments relating to the disposal of waste paper, 

surplus, obsolete and unserviceable materials, stores and equipment; 

by the Head of the office concerned ; 

(x) instruments relating to the reassignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the President in accordance with the rules regulating the 
Provident Fund from which the policy is financed; bp the Financial 
Advise r * 

(xi) agreements relating to supply of diets to hospitals etc.; by the Director 

of Health Services or Medical Superintendents / Medical Officer-in - 
charge of the Hospital. 

(xll) execution of agreements to be signed by the pupil nurses; by Director 
of Health Services, Kondagaon; 

(xlii) all contracts instruments and deeds relating to the purchase of land; 
by the Chief Administrator, Deputy Chief Administrator; 

13 (1) Agreements with displaced persons in connection with the disposal of 
deposits as defined In the transfer of Evacuee Deposits Act, 1934 (1ft 
of 1954) received on transfer from Pakistan under" the said Act and; 
(11) Agreements pertaining to the payments made on ad hoc basis to displaced 
persons having similar deposits in Pakistan; 

by the Custodian of Deposits. 

14. Contracts and assurances In respect of camps for migrants from East 
Pakistan directly administered by the Central Government. 

(i) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 
ance or carriage of materials, stores, machinery, office furniture and 
other equipment and repairs thereof; 

(11) all contracts and instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds 
connected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals tanks, reservoirs and 
construction of water-works, sewage works and the erection of ma- 
chinery; 

(ill) security bonds for due performance and completion of works and con- 
tracts* * 

(tv) agreements relating to loan of machinery, tools and plants and vehicles 
to contractors and others; 

(v) agreements with wholesale and retail distributors for sale of consumer 
goods; , 

(vl) security bonds of cashiers and other Govt, servants or sureties to Kecuxe 
(vl) se™my ue “° ecution of offlce or the accounting for money or other 

property received by virtue thereof; 

(vii) all service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV staff; 

, ■ ;n nl1 contracts and instruments relating to the disposal of waste paper, 
( Surplus, obsolete and unserviceable materials, stores end equipment, 

n-u-'i instruments relating to the re-assignment of insurance policies which are 
(iX) aXnedtothe President in accordance with the rules regulating the 
Provident Fund from which the policies are financed, 

by fhe Direct or General of Relief, or the Chief Commandant/the Commandant. 
XV— IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF LAW:- 

" „ AH Contracts and other ««« SSEdSl.^ST^ 

acrlptions for the j^AiZincharae of Administration Department of 

Secretary to tKeGweTmwntofl^ legislative' T Department, Director (Adminls- 
U%ln ScoomZtlon) Official Language (Legislative) Commission, or Assistant 
GwemrZnt Advocate, Central Agency Section. 

fi , , . ...vi™ „nd other Government servants or their Buretiea 

to due* 1 execution of an offlce or the due accounting for money or other 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAK.HA 3, 1888 


property received by virtue thereof relating to Official Language (Legislative) 
Commission; by the Director ( Administration and Coordination), Official Language 
( Legislative ) Commission. 

3. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Income-tax Appellate Tri- 
bunal; by the President, Income-tax Appellate Tribunal. 

XVI. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF MINES AND METALS; 

L In the case of the Secretariat of the Department of Mines and Metals; 

(1) All Service Agreements and Security bonds for the due performance of 
their duties by Government servants; by a Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Department of Mines and Metals: 

(ii) All miscellaneous contracts or assurance of property and instruments 
including instruments appointing agents, attorneys and counsels by a 
Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 
Mines and Metals. 

2. In the case of the Office of the Coal Controller: — 

(1) All contracts and/or instruments relating to the purchase, supply, con- 
veyance or carriage of materials, furniture, stores, machinery and the 
like and for hiring of accommodation for office and residential pur- 
poses and agreements relating to telephone connections; by the Coal 
Controller or the Deputy Coal Controller (Production) or the Deputy 
Coal Controller ( Distribution ) ; 

(ii) contracts and/or other instruments relating to advance for purchase of 

motor cars or for the purchase or building of houses; by the Coal 
Controller; 

(iii) security bohds for the due performance of their duties by cashiers and 

other Government servants; by the Coal Controller; 

(iv) bonds to be executed by consumers to whom provisional payment of 

subsidy on coal moved by rail cum sea route is granted; by the Deputy 
Coal Controller Production; 

(v) contracts and/or other instruments relating to the payment of advance- 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc.; by the Coal Controller; 

(vi) security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the < oal 
Controller. 


3. In the case of the Indian Bureau of Mines: — ■ 

(i) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom thf* 

Dlrector/Deputv Director, Indian Bureau of Mines has the power to 
appoint or their sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the' 
due accounting money or other property received by virtue thereoi, 
by the Director/Deputy Director, Indian Bureau of Mines; 

(ii) all contracts (including trade contracts with the foreign trade represen- 

tatives in India) and other Instruments relating to: 

(a) purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of materials, stores, ma- 

chinery equipment etc., and repairs thereof and 

(b) disposal of surplus, obsolete and waste stores; 
by the Director. 

Prior permission of the Government will be obtained to enter into an agreement 
with a foreign trade representatives in India and the copy of the proposed agree- 
ment will be got approved by the Government before the agreement Is signed. 

(Hi) Bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 
completion of works; by the Director. 



704 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAKHA S, 1888 [Part II- 


(iv) All contracts and Instruments relating to agreements in connection with 

the investigation undertaken on behalf of the State Government, Gov- 
ernment Undertakings and private parties; by the Director, Indian 
Bureau of Mines. 

(v) Contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals, 
etc; by the Mineral Economist. 

(vl) Security Bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due excution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Deputy 
Director ( Administration ). 

(vli) Service Agreements in respect of class III and Class IV posts; by the 
Deputy Director ( Administration ) and in respect of Class I and Class 
II posts by the Director. 

(viill Leases of land, houses and other immovable properties; by the Deputy 
Director ( Administration ). 

4. In the case of the Geological Survey of India: — 

(i) Contracts and/or other Instruments relating to advances for the purchase 

of conveyance; by the Director General, Director of Administration 
and Regional Directors. 

(ii) Agreements or leases for hire of buildings required for the Geological 

Survey of India at Head Quarters and at other regional and Circle 
offices in other parts of India; by the Director General, Director of 
Administration and Regional Directors, 

(iii) All contracts (Including trade contracts with the foreign trade represen- 

tatives in India) and other instruments relating, to purchase, supply 
and conveyance or carriage of materials, furniture, stores and machi- 
nery and repairs thereof and/or agreements relating to telephone con- 
nections; by the Director General, Director of Administration, Regional 
Directors , Sr. Administrative Officers. Administrative Officers and 
Assistant Administrative Officers, (subject to the condition that the 
prior approval of the Government is obtained by the Director General, 
Geological Survey of India in regal'd to the form and contents of the 
said agreement). 

(Iv) All instruments relating to execution of works of all kinds connected with 
buildings and estates in the charges of the Department; by the Direc- 
tor General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 

(v) Security bonds of Cashiers, Store-keepers and other Government servants 
whom the Director-General has the power to appoint or their sureties 
to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Director 
General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 

(vl) All contracts and/or other instruments relating to the disposal of surplus, 
obsolete and waste stores and bonds of auctioneers; by the Director 
General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 

(vli) Contracts and/or other instruments relating to printing work, serial 
photographs, mapping, preparation of mosaics and prints; oy the 
Director General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 

(vlll) To execute contracts relating to the payment of advance subscription for 
the purchase of periodicals, magazines, books etc., required for the 
Geological Survey of India; by the Director General, Director of Ad- 
ministration and Regional Directors and Superintending Geologist-in - 
charge of Publication Division. 

(ix) Bonds In connection with grant of Government stipends and fellowships; 

by the Director General, Director of Administration and Regional 
Directors. 

(x) Agreements relating to running of refreshments and canteens in the 

Department of Geological Survey of India; by the Director General, 
Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 



S*C. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAI8AKHA 3, 1888 705 


(xi) Contracts relating to purchase, maintenance etc., of geophysical and 

other instruments; by the Director General, Director of Administration, 
Regional Directors, Senior Administrative Officers, Administrative 
Officers and Assistant Administrative Officers. 

(xii) Service Agreements; by the Director General, Director of Administration 

and Regional Directors. 

(xiii) Leases of land, houses, and other Immovable properties; by the Director 
General, Director of Administration and Regional Directors. 

(xiv) Contracts with private? for undertaking jobs on payment basis; 

by the Director General, Regional Directors, Director of Administra- 
tion and Superintending Geologists-in-charge of circles. 

XVII.— IN THE CASE OF THE SECRETARIAT OF THE MINISTRY OF 
PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS; — - 

(i) Ail Service Agreements and Security bonds for the due performance of 

their duties by Government servants; by a Deputy Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals. 

(ii) All contracts deeds and other instruments under the Petroleum Conces- 

sion Rules, 194!) and the Petroleum and Natural Gas Rules, 1959; by 
an Under Secretary to the Government of India, in the Ministry Of 
Petroleum and Chemicals. 

XVIII— IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTRY OF RALWAYS; — 

1. All instruments relating to purchase, hire or supply and conveyance of 
materials, stores, machinery, plant, telephone lines and connections, coal and all 
agreements for lire lighting and agreement:; relating to re-imbursement of sa’es 
tax in respect of orders for the purchase, of stores for the Indian Railways; etc.; 
by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General. Manag- 
ers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers, Secretaries 
to General Managers, Engineers-in-Chicf, Additional Engineers-in-Chief, Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Chief Operating Superin- 
tendents, Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superin- 
tendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents. Divisional District Commercial Superin- 
tendent, Divisional Superintendents, Superintendents of Works. Executive Engi- 
neers, Divisional/ District Engineers, Chief Medical Officers, Personnal Assistant 
to the Chief Medical Officer, Station Executive Officers, 1 Kharagpur Colliery 
Superintendents, Chief Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers, 
Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Regional Mecha- 
nical Engineers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal & Telecommunication Engineers, 
Track Supply Officers, Controller of Stores, Deputy Controler of 
Stores, Deputy Controller of Stores, District Controller of Stores , Senior Stores 
Officer, Assistant Controller of Stores. Controllers of Grain Shops, Superintendents 
Catering, Town Engineers, Sleeper Control Officers, Chief Mining Adviser, Works 
Manager Tata Nagar, Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory ort 
D.B.K. Projects, Secretary, Rates Tribunal, Chairman, Railway Service Commission, 
Deputy Chief Signalling & Telecommunication Engineers, Superintendents, Print- 
ing and Stationery, the Principal, Indian Institute of Railway Signal & Engineer- 
ing & Telecommunications, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, 
Additional Directors, Joint Directors. Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, Assis- 
tant Controller of Stores, Assistant Engineer in the R.D.S.O., Director , Joint Direc- 
tor and Deputy Director in the Railway Board. 

2. All instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connected 
with railways, open or under construction; by General Managers. Senior Deputy 
General Manaaers, Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers, Assis- 
tant Deputy General Managers, Secretaries to General Managers. Engineers-in- 
Chief, Additional Engineers-in-Chief, Engineer-in-Charge (Construction), Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Regional Superintendents, 
Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, 
District Divisional Commercial Superintendent, Divisional Superintendents, 
Superintendents of Works, Executive Engineers, Divisional/District Engineers, Sub- 
Division a! Officers, Colliery Superintendents, Chief Electrical Engineers, Deputy 
Chief Electrical Engineer, Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical 
Engineers, District Divisional Mechanical Engineers, Regional Mechanical Engi- 
neers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal & Telecommunication Engineers Deputy 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, Track. Supply Officers Controller 
of Stores. Deputy Controller of Stores, District Controller of Stores, Town Engi- 
neers, Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board, Works Managers Tata 



jq6 THE GAZETTE OF -INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II— 


Nagar, Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory or D.B.K. Projects r 
Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Additional Directors, Joint 
Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, Assistant Controller of Stores and 
Assistant Engineer in the R.D.S.O. 

3. Security Bonds for the due performance and completion of works and gene- 
ral indemnity notes, indemnity bonds and guarantee bonds of all kinds other 
than mentioned above; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, 
Deputy General Managers, Secretaries to General Managers, Engineers-in Chief , 
Additional Engineers-in-Chief , Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional 
Engineers, Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superin- 
tendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial Super- 
intendents, Divisional Superintendents, Superintendents of Works, Executive 
Engineers, Divisional /District Engineers, Colliery Superintendents, Chief Electri- 
cal Engineers, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers, Chief Mechanical Engineers,, 
Regional Mechanical Engineers, District /Divisional Mechanical Engineers, Works 
Managers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, 
Track Supply Officers, Controllers of Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores, Dis- 
trict Controllers of Stores or Town Engineers or the Chief Mining Engineer with 
the Railviay Board or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, 
or D,B.K. Projects, Deputy Chief Signalling and Telecommunication Engineer, 
Senior Accounts Officers, Junior Accounts Officers or Assistant Accounts 
Officers, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Additional Direc- 
tors, Joint Directors, Deputy Directors or Assistant Directors or Assistant Con-, 
trailer of Stores or Assistant Engineer in the R.D.S.O. 

4. Instruments relating to contracts for the transport of passengers, goods and 
coaching traffic by transport agents, for the sale of tickets by tourist or other 
agents authorised by Railways, or for working ferries and ferry steamers in com 
nection with the working of Railways and/or for the amenities of the Railway Staff 
and for supply of labour other than labour required in connection with conser- 
vancy services and for reservation of accommodation in Railway Hote’s by re- 
cognised tourist travel agents and/or contracts connected with loading and unload- 
ing. stacking and delivery of goods and parcels and of Railway stores and mate- 
rial Including loco coal or for other matters necessary for or incidental to Railway- 
working; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy Gene- 
ral Managers, Chief Engineers, Engineers-in-Chief, Deputy Chief Engineers. Re- 
gional Engineers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engi- 
neers Chief Operating Superintendents, Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents , 
Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, 
Regional Traffic Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial and Traffic 
Superintendents, Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers,. 
District/ Div isional Mechanical Engineers, Chief Electrical Engineers. Deputy 
Chief Electrical Engineers, Track Supply Officers, Controllers of Stores, Deputy 
Controllers of Stores, District Controllers of Stores, Colliery Superintendents, Divi- 
sional Operating Superintendents, Regional/Divisional Superintendents, Town 
Engineers, the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board, the Chief Adminis- 
trative Officer, Integral Coach Factory or D.B.K. Projects, Divisional Engineer or 
the Superintendent catering. 

5. Instruments connected with the collection of farming of tools at bridges or 
ferries or other means of communication provided bv the Railway; by General 
Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers. Assistant 
General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers. Seeretries to Gneral Mana- 
gers, Engineers-in-Chief, Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Bridge Engineers, 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, Chief Commercial Superintendents, 
Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divisional/District Commercial Super- 
intendents Regional Traffic Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents, Superin- 
tendents of Works, Executive Engineers, Colliery Superintendents, District Engi- 
neers or Divisional Engineers of Indian Railway and Chief Administrative Officers. 

6. Leases or licence of houses, land or other immovable property, vehicle stand' 
and coin operated weighing machines in stations provided that the rent or licence 
fees reserved does not' exceed Rs. 5,000 a month (leases of small branch lines of 
Railways are excluded Lom this Item) ; by General Managers , Senior Deputy Gene- 
ral Managers, Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant 
Deputy General Managers. Secretaries to General Managers, Engineers-in-Chief. 
Chief Engineers Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Chief Cornmerctal 
Superintendents’, Regional Traffic Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial 
Superintendents, Divisional/District Commercial Superintendents, Chief Operating 
Superintendent^, Divisional Superintendents, District Traffic Superintendents, . 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 196fi/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 707 


Superintendents of Works, Superintendents of Way and Works t Executive Engi- 
neers, Divisional Engineers, District Engineers, Colliery Superintendents, Coal 
Manager , Eastern Railway, Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical 
Engineers or Town Engineers of Indian Railways, the Chief Mining Engineer with 
the Railway Board, the President Colony Committee . , Golden Rock, the Station 
Executive Officer, Kharagpur, the Chief Administrative Officer Integral Coach 
Factory, Perambur or D.B.K. Projects, Secretary, Railway Rates Tribunal, Chief 
Personnel Officer, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer, Superintendent Delhi Area , 
Superintendents Kanpur Area, Director General, Deputy Director General, Direc- 
tors, Additional Directors, Joint Directors, Assistant Directors Oscillograph Car 
Officers, Dynamometer Car Officers and Assistant Engineer in the R.D.S.O. 

7. Agreement or leases or licences with outsiders for grazing cattle for the sale 
of grass, trees or other products on Railway land, for fishing in railway tanks, for 
cultivation of water-nuts or for irrigation and instruments relating to the sale of 

g 'Oss, trees, or other products on railway land; by General Managers, Senior 
eputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers, 
Assistant Deputy General Managers ; Secretaries to General Managers, Engineer -in- 
Chief, Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, District Engi- 
neers, Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial Super- 
intendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents , Superin- 
tendents of Works, Superintendents of Way and Works, Executive Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Eiigineers, Colliery Superintendents, Coal Managers, 
Eastern Railway, Divisional Engineers, Town Engineers of Indian Railways, Chief 
Mining Engineers, with the Railway Board, Station Executive Officer, Kharagpur, 
Secretary Rates Tribunal, Principal, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering 
and Telecommunication, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, 
Additional Directors, Joint Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors ana 
Assistant Engineer in the R.D.S.O. or Chief Administrative Officer. 

8. Agreements or leases or licences with outsiders for erecting telegraph or tele- 
phone posts on Railway land, for laying pipe lines or for building wharves, or for 
crossing Railway land and track by means of aerial rope way or over head trans- 
misison lines or underground cables, or for stocking stones, coal, firewood, etc. on 
Railway land or for erecting bulk oil depots etc. in connection with the working 
of traffic carried on Railway; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Manag- 
ers, Deputy General Managers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant Deputy 
General Managers, Secretaries to General Managers, Engineer 3-in-Chief, Additional 
Engineers-in-Chief, Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divisional/ District Commercial Super- 
intendents, Chief Operating Superintendents, Goods Superintendent, Divisional 
Traffic Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents, District Traffic Superintend- 
ents, Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Supermtcn- 
t endents of Works. Executive Engineers, Colliery Superintendents, Divisional 
Engineers, District Engineers, Town Engineers of Indian Railways, the Chief Admi- 
nistrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur, or D.B.K. Projects Chief 
Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers, Divisional Electrical Engi- 
neers, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Joint Directors , 
Deputy Directors in the R.D.S.O. 

9. Contracts connected with the sale of scrap ashes, coal dust, empty containers 
and stores: by the General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy- 
General Managers, Engineers-in-Chief, Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, 
Regional Engineers, Chief Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers, 
Bridge Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunications Engineers, Chief Operat- 
ing Superintendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents Chief Mechanical Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Regional Mechanical, Engineers. Divisional 
Superintendents, Divisional/ District Engineers, Controllers of Stores, Deputy Con- 
trollers of Stores, District Controllers of Stores, Assistant Controller of Stores, oh 
Town Engineers of Indian Railways, the Chief Mining Engineer, With the Railway 
Board, the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur, orj 
D B.K. Projects, the. Principal, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering and. 
Telecommunication, Superintendent Catering, Divisional Mechanical Engineer, 
Di visional Signal and Telecommunication Engineer, Divisional Electrical Engineer, 
in charge of Workshops and Principal, Advanced Permanent Way Training School, 
Poona and Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Joint Directors, 
Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors, Assistant Controller of Stores and Assistant 
Engineer in the R.D.S.O. 

10. (a) Agreements including Running Power Agreements for the interchange 
of traffic with Railways other than Indian Railways; and 

(b) Agreements with Private or guaranteed Railway Companies, Tram- 
way Companies and other carrying Companies: by General Managers, Divisional 
Superintendents, or Regional Engineers of Indian Railways. 



yo8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966 / VA1SAKHA \ JIM rim t ji_ 


H, Agreements with Covenanted Inspectors, Engin-Drivers, Foremen and 
ot ^ e J r mec hanics on the expiry of the terms of their original covenants; by Gene- 
ral Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief 
Operating Superintendents f Regional Traffic Superintendents , Chief Engineers. 
Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engmeers, Deputy Chief 
Engineers, Regional Engineers, Bridge Superintendents Mechanical Workshops, 
Divisional Superintendents or District/ Divisional Electrical Engineers of Indian 
Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory, Perambur, 
or D.B.K. Projects, Chief Personnel Officer, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer, Senior 
Personnel Officer , Director General Deputy Director General, Directors Joint 
Directors, Deputy Directors, R.D.S.V. 

12. Agreements with monthly pensionable and non-pcnsionable subordinate 
employees on Indian Railways defining the terms and conditions of service to be 
entered into on entering the service of Government including agreements for 
app. entice drivers and other apprentices in the subordinate service; by General 
Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers, Assistant 
General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers, Secretaries to General 
Managers, Engineer s-in-Chief , Additional Engineer s-ln-Chief, Chief Engineers, 
Divisional Superintendents , Superintendents Watch and Ward Department, Chief 
Security Officers, Security Officers, Assistant Security Officers, Superintendents 
of Works, Executive Engineers, District/Divisional Signal and Telecommunication 
Engineers. Divisional Engineers, Works Managers, Assistant Works Managers, 
Signals, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Chief Operating Superin- 
tendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents, District Traffic Superintendents, 
Assistant Traffic Superintendents, Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy 
Chief Commercial Superintendents , District Copimerelal Superintendents. Assis- 
tant Commercial Superintendents Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief 
Mechanical Engineers, Regional Mechanical Engineers, Chief Electrical Engineers, 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, District Electrical Engineers, 
Assistant Electrical Engineers, Printing Superintendents, Assistant Printing Super- 
intendents, Controllers of Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores, District Control- 
ler of Stores. Track Supply Officers, Colliery Superintendents, Coal Manager. 
Adra Divisional Personnel Officers, Assistant Personnel Officers, Superintendents 
Staff Bridge Engineers, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officers, Deputy 
Chief Accounts Officer, Divisional Accounts Officers, Workshop Accounts Officers, 
Worjcshops Personnel Officers, Stores Accounts Officers, or Statistical Offcers, 
Divisional/District Personnel Officers, District Engineers, Assistant Engineers, 
District Mechanical Engineers. Divisional Mechanical Engineers. Assistant Mecha- 
nical Engineers. Chief Medical Officers, District/Divlslonal Medical Officers, Assis- 
tant Medical Officers, Divisional Operating Superintendents, Assistant Operating 
Superintendents, Assistant Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, Assistant 
Controllers of Stores, Senior Accounts Officers , Junior Accounts Officers or Assis- 
tant Accounts Officers of Indian Railways, Marine Superintendents. Mandapam or 
the Principal, Zonal Training School. Bhusaval or the Chief Administrative Officer , 
Integral Coach Factory. Perambur (Madras), or D.B.K. Projects or Superinten- 
dents of Staff training Schools or President. Station Committees, or Station Execu- 
tive Officer. Kharagpur or Controlling Officers of Railway Schools, or Chairman / 
Secretary. Railway Sendee Commission or Principal, Railway Staff College. Barnda 
or the Secretary, Railway Rates Tribunal, Chief Personnel Officer. Deputy Chief 
Personnel Officer, Senior Personnel Officer. Principals, Institute of Railway Signal 
Engineering and Telecommunications and the Principal, Advance Permanent Way 
Training School. Principal. Training Schools. Chief Cashier. Denutij Chief Engineer, 
Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, Deputy Financial Adviser, Deputy Chief Signal- 
ling and Telecommunication Engineer, Poiver House Superintendent, Thakurli, 
and Maintenance Engineer, Power House, Thakurli. 

13. (a) All service agreements with Gazetted officers: by General Managers or 

Chief Administrative Officers of the Indian Railway /Railway Adminis- 
trations. 

(bl All services agreements with non-gazetted officers; by the Chief Mining 

Engineer with the Railway Board. 

14. Service agreements of student Engineers and Overseer nnd apprentices of 
all other types other than special class apprentices; by Chief Engineers, Deputy 
Chief Engineers of Indian Railways. Chief Mechanical Engineer, Deputy Chief 
Mechanical Engineer, Divisional Mechanical Engineer or the Chief Administrative 
Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur (Madras) or D.B.K, Projects , Senior 
Personnel Officer. 

15. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
nervants whom the officers specified below have powers to appoint; by General 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers , Deputy General Managers, Assistant 
General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers, Secretaries or Assistant 
Secretaries to General Managers, Engineer-in-Chief, Additional Engineer-in-Cluef, 
Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Divisional Superintendents, Superintendent 
Watch and Ward Department, Chief Security Officers, Railway Protection Force, 
Superintendent of Works, Executive Engineers, Divisional/ District Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Divisional Mechanical Engineers, Regional 
Mechanical Engineers, Works Managers, Bridge Engineers, Chief Operating Super- 
intendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents, Chief Commercial Superintendents, 
Divisional / District Commercial Superintendent, Chief Mechanical Engineer, Chief 
Electrical Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunications Engineers, Colliery 
Superintendents, Financial Advisers and Chief Accounts Officers, or Deputy Finan- 
cial Advisers and Chief Accounts Officer, Chittranjan Locomotive Works, Chitta- 
ranjan, Controllers of Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores or District Controllers 
of Stores of Indian Railway or the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board 
or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Peramhur (Madras) 
or D.B.K. Projects, the Principal, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering and 
Telecommunication, the Principal, Advance Permanent Way Training School, Chief 
Personnel Officers, Senior Personnel Officers. Chief Cashiers, Deputy Chief Com- 
mercial Superintendents, Director General, Deputy Director General Directors, 
Joint Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors in the R.D.S.O,, Power House 
Superintendent, Thakurli and maintenance Engineers, Power House, Thakurli. 


10, Instruments relating' to advances for the purchase of motor cars or advances 
from the State Railway Provident Fund for the purpose of purchasing or building 
a house and instruments relating to loans and grants to Co-operative Societies; by 
General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, 
Secretaries to General Managers, Engineer s-in-Cnief, Chief Engineers, Regional 
Traffic Superintendents, Chief Operating Superintendents, Chief Commercial Super- 
intendents, Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, Re- 
gional Mechanical Engineers. Chief Electrical Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, 
Regional Engineers, Bridge. Engineers, Divisional /District Engineers Controllers of 
Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores. Divisional Superintendents, Chief Security 
Officers, Railway Protection Force, or Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officers 
of Indian Railways or the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board or the 
Chief Administrative. Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Peramhur (Madras) or 
D.B.K, Projects, Chief Personnel Officer and Deputy Chief Personnel Officer, 
Senior Personnel Officer, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, the Principal Staff 
College, Baroda, Secretary Railway Rates Tribunal, The Director General,, Deputy 
Director General, Directors, Joint Directors, Deputy Directors. Assistant Directors 
and the Establishment office in the R.D.S.O. or the Principals, the Institute of 
Railway Signal Engineering and Telecommunication, and advance Permanent Way 
Training School, Secunderabad. 


17. All instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given as se- 
curity; by General Managers. Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy Genet al 
Managers, Assistant General Managers, Assistant Deputy General Managers, Secre- 
taries to General Managers, Enqineers-in-Chief, Chief Engineers, Bridge Engineers, 
Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers, Chief Operating Superintendents, 
Chief Mechanical Engineers, Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers. Chief Electrical 
Engineers, Controller of Stores, Deputy Controller of Stores, Financial Advisers 
and Chief Accounts Officers, Deov.ty Chief Accounts Officers, Chief Commercial 
Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents. Divisional /D'<s f r' ct 
Commercial Superintendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents. Divisional Super- 
intendents, Chief Security Officers, Railway! Protection Force, Superintendents, 
Watch and Ward Department. Superintendents of Works, Executive Engineers, 
Colliery Superintendents, or Divisional /District. Engineers of Indian Railways or 
the Chief Mining Engineer with the Railway Board or the Chief Administrative 
Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Peramhur (Madras), D.B.K. Projects, Depnty Chief 
Personnel Officer, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer. Deputy Financial 
Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Senior Accounts Officer, and Divisional/ Work- 
shop Accounts Officers. 

18. Agreements relating to the supply of electrical power electricity or water 
to railway bv agencies other than Railways themselves; by General Managers, 
Senior Deputy General Managers. Deputy General Managers, Chief Operating 
Superintendents, Regional Traffic Superintendents. Additional Engineer s-in-Chief, 
Chief Engineers, Chief Mechanical Engineers. Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers, 
Regional Mechanical Engineers, Chief Electrical Engineers or Divisional Superin- 
tendents, of Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach 



y I0 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA .-APRIL 23, , 1 966 /VA I. SAKHA 3, 1888 [Papt II- 


Factory, Peramhur ( Madras ) , D.B.K. Projects, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, 
Divisional Engineer, Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Addi- 
tional Directors and Joint Directors in the R.D.S.O. 

19. Agreements relating to the supply of electricity or water by Railways to 
outsiders; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General 
Managers, Additional Engineer s-in-Chief, Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, 
Regional Engineers, Divisional/ District Engineers, Divisional Superintendents , 
Chief Electrical Engineers or Deputy Chief Electrical Engineers of Indian Railways 
or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Peramhur (Madras), 
D.B.K, Projects, Public Relations and Estate Officer and District Electrical Engi- 
neer. 


20. Agreements for construction of or relating to use of assisted and private 
sidings for collieries mills or other industrial concerns; by General Managers, 
Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Engineers, 
Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers. Chief Operating Superintendents, 
Regional Traffic Superintendents, Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents, Cfref 
Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, Divi- 
sional/ District Commercial Superintendents or Divisional Superintendents of 
Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, 
Perambur (Madras), or D.B.K, Projects. 

21. Agreements for the driving of galleries under and for underground support 
to railway property and lines including assisted sidings or for the provision of 
loading accommodation at existing sidings (railway or assisted); by General 
Managers. Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Chief Operating Superintendents, Divisional 
Superintendents, Regional Traffic, Superintendents, or Deputy Chief Operating 
Superintendents of Indian Railways or the Chief Admlrnstrative Officer, integral 
Coach Factory, Peramber (Madras), or D.B.K. Projects. 

22. Agreements renting to refreshment rooms, dining cars, book stalls and 
curio stalls, staff canteens refreshment and foodstuff contractors and vendors and 
issue of licences to Porters; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General Mana- 
gers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Operating Superintendents, Regional 
Traffic Superintendents, Chief Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Com- 
mercial Superintendents, Senior Commercial officers, Divisional/ District Commer- 
cial Superintendents, Divisional Superintendents, District Traffic Superintendents, 
Chief Engineers, Controller of Stores, Town Engineers or Personnel Officer of 
Indian Railways, the President Colony Committee „ Golden Rock or the Principal, 
Zonal Training School, Bhusaval or Principal, Railway Staff College, Baroda, 
Public Relation Officer and Superintendent Catering the Head of the office and per- 
sonnel Officer or the Principals, the Institute of Railway Signal Engineering and 
Telecommunications and the Advance Permanent Way Training School. 

23 Advertising Printing and Publicity contracts; by General Managers, Senior 
Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers, Chief Commercial Superin- 
tendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents. Divisional/ District Com- 
mercial Superintendents, and Rates Superintendents, Chief Operating Superinten- 
dents, Chief Public Relations Officer, Publicity Officers or Town Engineers of 
Indian Railways or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory 
Perambur (Madras) or D.B.K. Projects or Chairman. Railway Service Commis- 
sions, Public Relations Officer, Divisional Engineer, Superintendent Catering and 
Divisional Superintendent. 

24 Agreements for the collection of terminal tax, pilgrim tax, Municipal Tax 
or othec and duties for and on behalf of local authorities; by General Manager, 
Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers , Chief Commercial 
Superintendents , Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents , Chief Operating 
Superintendent or Divisional Superintendents of Indian Railways or the Chief 
Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur ( Madras ) or D.B.K. 
Projects and Superintendent Catering. 


2b. Contracts for the hiring of films or the provision of studio facilities: by 
Chief Commercial Superintendents. Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents, 
Divisional /District. Commercial Superintendents or Publicity Officers of Indian 
Railways or Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factors, Perambur 
( Madras ) or D.B.K. Projects, Chief Public Relations Officer, Public Relations Offi- 
cers and Divisional Superintendents. 



Src. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 19fi6/VAISAKHA t. 1888 711 


26. Agreements relating to the supply of electric power to collieries adjacent 
to Railway Collieries; by the Chief Mining Engineers with trie Railway Board. 

27. Major contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all 
“descriptions exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs but not exceeding Rs. 10 lakhs in value; by 
General Managers, the Administrator of the Eastern Group Sleeper Pool, the 
Administrator of the Northern Group Sleeper Pool or the Administrator of the 
Southern Group Sleeper Pool. 

28. Major contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all des- 
criptions exceeding Rs. 50,000 but not exceeding Rs. 5 lakhs in value; by Chief 
Engineers, or Controller of Stores or Deputy Controllers of Stores, of Indian Rail- 
ways, the President of the Eastern Group Sleeper Pool, the President of the Nor- 
thern Group Sleeper Pool, or the President of the Southern Group Sleeper Pool. 

29. Minor contracts for the purchase of wooden sleepers and timber of all des- 
criptions not exceeding Rs. 50,000 in value' by Sleepers Control Officers of Indian 
Railways, Sleeper Control Officers of the Eastern Group, Sleeper Control Officers 
■of the Northern Group or Sleeper Control Officers of the Sourthern Group or 
Track Supply Officers , Controllers of Stores, Deputy Controllers of Stores of 
Indian Railways. 


30. Execution of deeds of transfer of shares and other securities held by the 
Governor-General before the 2Gth January 1960; and the P esident on or aftei 
that date on account of investment out of the Revenue Reserve Fund Investment 
Account and endorsement of dividend warrants relating to such shares and secu- 
rities; by the Financial Adviser and Chief Accounts Officer, Eastern Railway. 

31 . Instruments relating to sale of immovable property (lands and buildings); 
by General Managers. Senior Deputy General Managers, Deputy Managers , Clue) 
Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers, Regional Engineers, Engineer s-ln-Chief, 
Superintendents of Works, Divisional Superintendents, Divisional or District En- 
gineers of Indian Railways or the Chief Mining Engineer wi th the Railway Board 
or the Chief Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur (Madras) 
or D.B.K. Projects. 


32. Agreements with auctioneers for conducting sales by public auction of un- 
claimed and excess goods and lost property scrap and unserviceable goods; oy 
General Managers. Eenior Deputy General Managers, Deputy General Managers. 
Chief Operating Superintendents, Deputy Chief Operating Superintendents, Chief 
Commercial Superintendents, Deputy Chief Commercial Superintendents Regional 
Traffic Superintendents or Town Engineers of Indian Railways or the Chief Ad- 
ministrative Officer. Integral Coach Factory, Perambur (Madras) or D.B.K. Pro- 
jects, the Chief Mechanical Engineers. Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineers 
Deputy Controller of Stores, Divisional Superintendents, Divisional Commercial 
Superintendents. 

33. Deeds of conveyance relating to the transfer of land owned by State Gov- 
ernments' for Railway purposes; by General Managers, Senior deputy Genera 
Managers. Deputy General Managers, Chief Engineers Deputy Chief Engineers, 
Regional Engineers. Engine er -in-Chief . Superintendents of Works Division l 
Superintendents, Divisional or District Engineers, or Town Engineers of Indian 
Railways or the Chief Mining Emgneers with the Railway Board or the jy 
Administrative Officer, Integral Coach Factory, Perambur (Madras), or D.B.K. 
Projects. 

34. Contracts for the supp’y of labour, carts, fire-wood etc but 
structural works, in connection with conservancy sendee, washing hospital linen 
’ne'iodical serving and maintenance of hospital equipment or diet requireme ts 
hospita V or supply of drugs, dressings etc.; by Chief Medical Officer, thstnet Med - 
ral Officers-in-Charae of Districts , District Assistant Medical Officers, Divisional 
Medical Officer or Workshop Medical Officer , Divisional Superintendents , Depu v 
Chief Mechanical Engineers or Town Engineers of Indian Railu ays. 

at Contracts not exceeding Rs. 500 for the supply of labour carte, etc. but 
in-Charge of Districts of Indian Railways. 

s 

ways. . . 

and^^s U ^r^o^ t conteol i equipment! r track^struc'hire^overh^d equipment, power 



712 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


and telephone cables and transmission lines; by the General Managers Additional 
Engineers in Chief, Chief Electrical Engineers ; Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer*, 
or District Electrical Engineers of Indian Railways Chief Signalling and Tele- 
communication Engineers. 

38, All deeds and instruments supplemental to deeds and instruments executed, 
by officers of the Railway Board; by General Managers, Senior Deputy General 
Managers, Deputy General Managers, Engineer s-in-Chief, Chief Engineers. Chief 
Mechanical Engineers, Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineers , or Control- 
lers of Stores of Indian Railways, General Manager to Chief Engineers, Ganga 
Bridge Project, General Manager. Chittaranjan Locomotive Works, or the Chief 
Administrative Officer , Integral Coach Factory Peranibur (Madras), Director 
General, Deputy Director General, Directors and Additional Directors in the 
R.D.S.O. 


39. Licences for the use of safe deposit lockers at railway stations; by the 
Station Superintendents, Station Masters on duty or Chief Parcel Clerks or the 
Luggage and Parcel Supervisors of Indian Railways. 

40. All agreements and other instruments for granting permission to travel by 
breakvans of goods trains; by Station Masters or Assistant Station Masters on duty. 

41. In the case of tho Research Designs and Standards Organisations : — 

(i) Agreements and other instruments relating to printing of Indian Rail- 

ways Standard Drawings; and 

(ii) A 1 ! service agreements with non-gazetted officers; 

by the Director General, Deputy Director General, Directors, Additional Directors r 
Joint Directors. 

42. Agreements relating to removal of sullage through sewer system; by Gene- 
ral Managers , Chief Engineers, Deputy Chief Engineers and Executive Engineers. 

43. All deeds and instruments other than those specified above; by the Secretary 
or the Joint Secretary or the Deputy Secretary or the Under Secretary m the 
Railway Board or a Director, Joint Director, Deputy Director or Assistant Director 
in the Railway Board. 

XIX. IN THE CASE OF THE MINISTERS OF SUPPLY AND TECHNICAL 

DEVELOPMENT: 


In the case of the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals and the India 
Supply Mission, Washington ; — 

1 (a) All contracts and instruments re’ating to purchase, supply and 
conveyance, or carriage of materials, stores, machinery, etc.; 


(b) security bonds for due performance and completion of works and/ or 
contracts and all other instruments relating to any security for due 
performance and completion of works and/or contracts. 


(c) all instruments connected with th e reconveyance of property given as 

security; and 

(d) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connect- 

ed with the additions and alterations to buildings and plants , and 
with foundations and housing of machinery and electric and sanitary 
installations; - 


by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Department of Supply and 
Technical Development, Director General of Supplies and Disposals, Special Direc- 
tor General, Additional Director General , Deputy Directors General (Supplies),. 
Deputy Director General ( Supplies and Disposals ) , Deputy Director General 
(Prom-ess and Supplies), Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors (Grade 
I) or Assistant Directors (Grade II) of Supplies and/or Disposals Officer or 
Special Duty, (Accounts) in the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals on 
the Director General, India Supply Mission, Washington or Deputy Directors Gene- 
ral, Directors of Purchase or Assistant Directors working under him. 

2. (a) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 
or waste stores located in India and belonging to the Defence Set vices 
Civil Departments of the Government of India, State Governments 
o- quasi-Government institutions such as Port Trusts. Port com- 
missioners etc., the Government of the United Kingdom or other 
foreign Governments; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government o J 



713 


S*c. Bfl)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, I986/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


India in the Department vf Supply and Technical Development, 
Director General of Supplies and Disposals, Deputy Directors General 
(Propress and Supplies). Deputy Director General (Supplies and 
Disposals ), Directors of Supplies and/or Disposals , Deputy Directors 
Assistant Directors ( Grade 1) or Assistant Directors < Grade II) of 
Disposals. 

(b) All contracts and instruments relating to disposals or surplus, obsolete 
or waste stores located in the United States of Ame ica and belong- 
Ing to the Defence Services. Civil Departments of the Government 
of India, State Governments or quasi-Government institutions such 
as Port Trusts, Port Commissioners, etc.; by the Director General, 
India Supply Mission. Washington or Deputy Directors General, 
Directors of Purchase or Assistant Directors working under him. 

c) AV contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 
or waste stores, located in the United Kingdom and belonging to the 
Defence Services, Civil Departments of the Government of India, 
State Governments or quasi-Government institutions such as Port 
Trusts, Port Commissione s etc.; hit the Director General, India 
Supply Mission, London. Deputy Directors General, India Supply 
Mission. London, Directors of Purchase, Assistant Directors of Pur- 
chase, Controllers and Senior Executive Officers of the India Supply 
Mission, London. 

(d} Contracts for, or relating to, the manufacture, sale, purchase or supply 
of goods or for or relating to the affreightment or the carriage of 
roods or insurance, in the India Supply Mission. London under the 
cortrol of the High Commissioner for India in the United Kingdom, 
and subject to such rules and regulations as the said H ; gh Commis- 
sioner, with the anoroval of the President, may prescribe; by the 

Director General. Deputy Directors General, Directors of Purchase, 
Assistant Directors of Purchase, Controllers, Senior Executive Offi- 
cers and Higher Executive Officers. 

3. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 
Supply and Technical Development, Director General of Supplies and Disposals, 

Director of Administration in the Directorate General of Supplies and Disposal#, 

or the Director General, India Supply Mission, Washington, 

4. Leases of houses, land, or other immovable property; by a Deputy Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Department of Supply and Technical Develop- 
ment, the Director General of Supplies and Disposals, Special Director General 
Additional Director General. Deputy Directors General, Deputy D1 -ector General 
( Supplies and Disposals) , Director of Administration in the Directorate General 
of Supplies and Disposals, or the Director General, India Supply Mission, 
Washington. 

5. All service Agreement; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India 
in the Department of Supply and Technical Development. Director General of 
Supplies and Disposals, Director of Administration in the Directorate General of 
Supplies or the Director General, India Supply Mission Washington. 

6. Guarantee for the payment of electric, power and water charges to (II 
De’hi E'ectric Supply Undertaking. Municipal Corporation of Delhi and New Delhi 
Municipal Committee on behalf of g-izritcd officers and members of the non- 
paretted staff; bn Deputy Director of Administration in the Directorate General of 
Supplies and Disposals. 

7. All miselllnneous contracts and instruments Including Instruments appoint- 
ing agents, attornevs and counsels; h u a Deputy Secretary or an T7"d"r Secretary 
to the- Government of India in the Department of Supply nn d Technical Develop- 
ment. the Director General of Supplies and Disposals. Special Director General, 
Additional Director General. Deputy Directors General of Supplies and Disposals, 
the Director of Administration or the Deputy Director ( Administration ) In the. 
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals. 

8 All contracts and other instruments; by a Deputy Secretary or an Under 
Serretarv to the Government, of India ui the Department of Supphi and Technical 
Development, Director General Technical Development. or Deputy Director 
( Administration ) in the Directorate General Technical Development. 



714 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1%6/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


C. In the case of the Department of Heavy Engineering: — 

(i) Security bonds of Cashiers and other Government servants or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(ii) . Leases of houses, land and other immovable property; 

(iii) Contracts and other Instruments relating to the payments of advance 

subscriptions for the pu. chase of news papers, magazines, periodicals, 
etc., and 

(iv) Miscellaneous contracts and instruments; 

by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Heavy 
Engineering. 

XX. IN THE CASE OF MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION: 

A. In the case of the Dcptt. of Aviation: — 

1. In the case of the Civil Aviation Department: 

(a) All contracts and Instruments relating to the (i) payment of subsidy/ 

subvention and (ii) loan of aeroplanes, gliders, winches, equipment 
or other Government property to aircraft operators. Flying Clubs, 
Gliding Clubs and other training institutions in the field of Civil 
Aviation and Aeronautical Engineering; and 

(b) all contracts with private Arms relating to the maintenance and upkeep 

of Inspection Equipment; by the Director General, a Deputy Director 
General of the Director of Training and Licensing. 

2. (a) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 

of materials, stores, machinery, etc; 

(b) All Instruments relating to the execution and the maintenance of works 

of all kinds connected with aerodromes and air routes including 
buildings, roads, electric and water installations, fences, earthworks, 
the eraetion and maintenance of machinery, lighting apparatus and 
other equipment; 

(c) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works In 

respect of civil aviation; and 

(d) leases of houses, buildings, rooms, stalls, counter-space, washing stones, 

cycle sheds or of plots of land for purposes of fuelling facilities or 
construction of bul, dings on civil aviation lands by private parties; 
licences for cultivation or grass cutting rights on civi' aviation lands; 
licences for fishing rights and instruments relating to the sale of sand, 
usufructs, trees or other produce on civil aviation lands; by the Director 
General, any Deputy Director General, any Director, any Deputy 
Director, any Assistant Director, Estates, any Controller of Aerodromes, 
any Senior Aerodrome Officer or Assistant Aerodrome Officer in the 
Ministry of Civil Aviation- 

(e) Contracts and other instruments for removal and disposal of night soil 

and garbage from lands and buildings belonging to Government or 
in occupation of Government; by the Head of Department /office 
which is in occupation of the lands/ buildings and is responsible for 
the payment of Municipal taxes etc. 

3. All contracts relating to housing/parking/landing of aircraft at Government 
Civil Aerodrome; by the Director General, any Deputy Director General, any 
Director, any Deputy Director, any Assistant Director, Estates, any Controller of 
Aerodromes, any Senior Aerodrome Officer, any Aerodrome Officer, any Assistant 
Aerodrome Officer, or any Offleer-in-charge of an Aerodrome in the Ministry of 
Civil Aviation. 

4. All Instruments relating to the execution and the maintenance of works of 
all kinds connected with Aeronautical Communication Stations including Ihe 
tnstal.ation of masts and aerials: by All Controllers of Communication, Controller 
of General Radio Stores Depot, Controller of Radio Construction and Development 
Units, Deputy Controller of Radio Construction and Development Units, all Senior 



Sec. 9(0] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1 y66/VAlS AKHA S f 1888 ?I5 

Technical Officers, all Senior Communication Officers , all Communication 
Officers or all Technical Officers. 

5 Agreements with trainees at the Flying Clubs and the Civil Aviation Train- 
ing Centre, Allahabad and trainees under any other scheme of training approved 
by the Government of India; by the Director General of Civil Aviation or the 
Deputy Directors General of Civil Aviation. 

6. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Cashiers and other 
Government servants; by the Director of Administration. 

7. Agreements between the International Civil Aviation Organisations and the 
Government of India for the provision of technical assistance In matters concern- 
ing Civil Aviation; by the Representative of India on the Council of the Interna- 
tional Civil Aviation Organisation. 

8. All agreements and instruments relating to the catering establishments and 
etalls; by the Director Gs leral, any Deputy Director General, any Director, any 
Deputy Director and Assistant Director, Estates or any Controller of Aerodromes. 

9. All instruments relating to sale of lands and buildings; by the Director 
General or a Deputy Director General. 

10. In the case of the Railway Inspectorate: 

fa) All instruments relating to the purchase or hire, supply or conveyance 
of materials, stores machinery, plant, telephone lines and connections, 
i coal etc; 

(b) Agreements or teases for the hire of buildings required for the Railway 
Inspectorate for periods not exceeding one year; and 

f t) Service agreements with subordinate staff including class IV servants; 
by the Commissioner of Railway Safety or Additional Commissioners 
of Railway Safety. 

11. In the case of India Meteorological Department: 

(i) All contracts, deeds or other agreements relating to the execution ot 
works and repairs to Meteorological buildings including sanitary, 
water supply and electrical installations within the following mone- 
tary limits : — 

(a) Rs. 5,0Q0/-; by the Director General of Observatories; 

(b) K's. 400/-; by Deputy Director General of Observatories and Directors. 

(il) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 
servants; by the Director General of Observatories, the Deputy 
Director General of Observatories ( Admn .), the Deputy Director 
General of Observatories (Instruments and Supplies), New Delhi, the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories ( Climatology and Geophy- 
sics), Poona, the Deputy Director General of Observatories (Forecast- 
ing) Poona, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Calcutta the 
Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Bombay, the Director, Regional 
Meteorological Centre, Madras, the Director, Regional Meteorological 
Centre, New Delhi, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centra, 
Nagpur, the Director Colaba and Alibag Observatories, the Director 
( Instruments ) Poona, the Director, Astrophysical Observatory, Kodal- 
kanal, the Director Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Poona, the 
Director, Agricultural Meteorology, Poona and the Officer-in-chwrge, 
Central Seismologlcal Observatory, Shillong, 

(ill) All contracts or deeds relating to the recovery of rent, service charges, 
etc. from the canteens run by the Employees’ Associations of the 
India Meteorological Department; by the Director General of Obser- 
vatories, the Deputy Director General of Observatories (Administra- 
tion) New Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Observatories (In- 
struments), New Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Observatories 
(Forecasting), Poona, the Deputy Director General of Observatories 
(Climatology and Geophysics), Poona the. Director, Institute of Tropical 
Meteorology, Poona, the Director Astrophysical Observatory, Kodai - 
kanal, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Bombay, t hg 



716 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VATSAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Calcutta, the Director, 
Regional Meteorological Centre, Madras, the Director, Regional Meteo- 
rological Centre, Nagpur, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, 
New Delhi, the Director Colaba and Allbag Observatories Bombay, 
and Meteorologist-in-ch arge, Central Seismological Observatory, 
Shillong. 

flv) All contracts and other Instruments relating to the payment of advance 
subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc; by the Director General of Observatories, the Deputy Director 
General of Observatories (Climatology and Geophysics). Poona, the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories (Forecasting), Poona, the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories (Instrument & Supply), 
New Delhi, the Deputy Director General of Observatories (Admn.), 
New Delhi, the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, New Delhi, 
the Director, Regional Meteorological Centre, Bombay, the Director, 
Regional Meteorological Centre, Madras, the Director, Regional 
Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, the Director, Regional Meteorological 
Cenrte, Calcutta, the Director, Institute of Tropical Meteorology, 
Poona, the Director, Agricultural Meteorology, Poona, the Director 
(Instruments), Poona, the Director, Colaba and Alibng Observatory, 
Colaba, Bombay, the Director, Astro-physical Observatory. Kodnikanal, 
Meteorologlst-in-charge, Central Seismological Observatory, ShiUong. 

(v) Bonds in respect of special leave/study leave granted to officers and 
members of staff; by the Director General of Observatories and the 
Deputy Director General of Observatories (Admn.), New Delhi. 

(vi) Agreements or leases for the hiring of buildings or acquisition of land, 
required by the India Meteorological Department for official use or 
provision of residential accommodation to Its staff; by the Director 
General of Observatories. 

B. In the case of Deptt. of Transport, Shipping and Tourism. 

1. In the case of Lighthouses and Lightships: — 

(i) Contracts for the tending of lighthouses and lightships and for the 
purchase of stores, provisions and equipment to lighthouses, lightships 
and lighthouse tenders, boats and workships, belonging to the De- 
partment of Lighthouses and Lightships; by the Director General of 
Lighthouses and Lightships and Director of Lighthouses and Light- 
ships, 

(ID Contracts relating to the execution of works for the Department of 
Lighthouses and Lightships; by the Director General of Lighthouses 
and Lightships and Director of Lighthouses and Lightships. 

(ill) Bond from trainees (Lightkeepers/Mechanics); by the Superintendent, 
Lighthouse Workshops. 

2. In the case of Shipping: — 

(i) (a) Charter parties and other documents connected with the operation of 
requisitioned ships; and 

(b) Charter parties in respect of ships which the Government decide to 
charter and other documents connected with the operation of such 
chartered ships; 

by the Director General of Shipping or the Deputy Director General of Ship- 
ping, Bombay or the Chief Controller of Chartering or the Junior Chartering 
Officer. 

(ID Contracts for the supply of provisions to the T.S. ‘Dufferln’ Bombay; by 
the Captain Superintendent T.S. ‘Duffrln’, Bombay. 

(til) Contracts for the sunplv of provisions to the T S, ‘Bhadra’ Calcutta; by 
the Captain Superintendent. T.S. ‘Bhadra’, Calcutta. 

(iv) Contracts for the sunply of provisions to the T.S. 'Mekhala’. Visakha- 
Datnam; by the Captain Superintendent T.S. 'Mekhala', -Visakhapat - 
nam. 



717 


Sic. B(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1906/VAISAKHA B, 1888 


(v) Contracts for the supply of provision to or for catering In the T.S, ‘Nav 
Lakshi 1 , Navlakhi; by the Captain Superintendent, T.S, ‘Nav Lakshi’ , 
Navlakhi, 

(vl) Contracts for catering in the hostels of the Marine Engineering College, 
Calcutta; by the Director, Marine Engineering Training, Calcutta. 

(vil) (a) Contracts for catering in the Mercantile Marine Department, Calcutta; 

(b) contracts relating to the grant of licences for ‘space’ at Marine House, 

Calcutta to Photographers for the purposes of supply of photo- 
graphs to seamen; 

by the Principal Officer, Mercantile Marine Department, Calcutta. 

(c) Contracts relating to the lease deeds in respect of land for the con- 

struction of office and residential accommodation for the Mercantile 
Marine Departments at ports with which they are concerned; by 
the Principal Officers, Mercantile Marine Departments, Bombay, 
Calcutta and Madras, 

(vlll) Contracts for catering In the hostel of the Nautical and Engineering 
College, Bombay; by the Principal, Nautical and Engineering College, 
Bombay. 

fix) Contracts for catering In the hostel of the Directorate of Marine Engi- 
neering Training, Bombay; by the Deputy Director, Marine Engineer- 
ing Training, Bombay. 

(x) Agreements for the installation of machinery in the workshops of the 
Marine Engineering College, Calcutta; by the Director, Marine Engi- 
neering Training, Calcutta. 

<xi) Security bonds in connection with the employment of officers, cashiers, 
store-keepers -and other subordinates who are required to handle 
cash, stores and valuables in the course of their official work; by 
the Director General of shipping or the Senior Deputy Director 
General of Shipping Bombay, in the case of the Directorate General 
of Shipping and by the heads of the respective offices in the case of 
Us subordinate offices. 

(xii) All instruments relating to advances for the purchase of conveyances 
(other than motor cars) to the non-gazetted staff in the Directorate 
General of Shipping and its subordinate offices; by the Director 
General of Shipping and its subordinate offices; by the Director Gene- 
ral of Shipping or the Senior Deputy Director General of Shipping, 
Bombay, in the case of the Directorate General of Shipping and by 
the heads of the respective offices in the case of its subordinate offices. 

<xili) Agreements with the undertakings from trainees admitted for training 
as Ratings in the T.S. ‘Bhadra’, Calcutta /T.S. ‘Mekhala’, Visakhapat- 
nam/T.S. ‘Naulakshi’, Navlakhi; by the Captain Superintendent, T.S. 
' Bhadra , Calcutta/ T.S. ‘Mekhala’, Visakhapatnam/ T.S. Nau Lakshi, 
‘Navlakhi’, 

<xiv) Bonds executed by owners of sailing vessels in connection with the grant 
of identity cards to seamen under sail; by the Port Officers & Harbour 
Engineer, Mandvi, the Port Officer, Okha/ Bhavnagar/ Porbunder/ 
Veraval/ Navlakhi /Cuddalore / Nagapattinam/ Mangalore or the Re- 

gional Officer (Sails) Jamnagar/Bombav/Tuticorin/Masullpatam or 
the Principal Port Officer, Kozhikode, the Deputy Port Conservator, 
Cochin and the Sthte Port Officer Madras/ Kakinada. 

3. In the case of the Department of Tourism (Headquarters): 

(1) contracts for the due performance of their duties etc.; by the shipping 
agents or carriers, coolie contractors, etc.; by the Director General 
Department of Tourism. 


(11) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by the Govern- 
ment servants (e-g. Cashier etc.); by the Under Secretary / Director 
(Administration) Department of Tourism. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL X3, I909/VAISAKHA 8. 1888 [Pa*t H— 


4. In the case of the Tourist Offices in foreign countries: — 

(I) (a) Agreements or leases for the purchase or hire of buildings and land 
required for the accommodation of the offices, officers and stall of 
the Tourist offices and agreements for the sale, let out or construc- 
tion of Government buildings for these offices, officers and staff 1 in 
foreign country; 


(b) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase supply and con- 

veyance or carriage of material stores etc. required or owned by 
the Tourist Offices; 

(c) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 

and waste stores located in Tourist offices abroad and belonging 
to the Government of India; 

(d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof in the 
Tourist Offices abroad; 

(e) Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Gov- 

ernment servants employed in the Tourist Offices abroad for the 
purchase of conveyance; 

by the Head of the Indian Mission/Post in the foreign country concerned under 
whose overall supervision and control the Tourist Office functions, 

(ii) Surety Bonds relating to undertaking given by temporary Government 
servants to service fo r a minimum period in overseas station on 
posting abroad; by the Under Secretary /Director (Advilnisl ration) 
Department of Tourism (Head Quarters). 

5. In the case of the Tourist Offices, Tourist Bungalows/Restaurants etc. in 
India: — 

(a) Contracts and other instruments relating to — 

(ID the lease or purchase of land, buildings and movable and Immovable 
property required for use as Tourist Offices and Tourist Bungalows/ 
Restaurants and for providing accommodation, refreshment and 
recreational facilities primarily for tourists; 

(It) sale and lease of such property to caterers, hoteliers and State Govern- 
ments; 

(111) management of such property by private parties and State Governments, 
by the Director-General, Department of Tourism, 

(b) (i) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Govern- 

ment servants employed In the Tourist Offices; 

(11) contracts and other instruments relating to advances for the purchase 
of conveyance, granted to Government servants employed in the 
various Tourist Offices in India; 

by the Director, Government of India Tourist Office, Delhi, Bombay , Calcutta 
and Madras. 

(c) Contracts and other instruments relating to— 

(i) purchase, supply of material, stores and other equipments, repairs and 
disposal thereof; and 

(Ii) disposal of obsolete and waste equipments, machinery etc; 

by the Director (Management) Deptt. of Tourism (Headquarters) and/or 
Directors/Managers of Tourist Offices in India. 


6. In the case of the Directorate General Border Roads; 

(1) (a) All Instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 
of materials, stores, machinery, and hiring of land and accommodation, 

(b) all Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds connected 
1 ’ with camp structures artd buildings, ineluding demolition ^ 

France of buildings, bridges, canals, tanks and reservoirs. 



Stc. 8 (i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 719 


aerodromes and all instruments relating to the construction of water, 
sewage and electrical works and the erection of machinery; 

(c) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 

(d) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting 
for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(e) all service agreements with civilian personnel whom the officers specified 

below have powers to appoint; 

(f) All contracts and instruments relating to disposal of 

( I ) (a) unserviceable stores and scraps of vehicles, machinery and con- 

nected spares when the book value of stores for each category and 
assessed value in the case of scrap docs not exceed Rs. 20,000/; 

(b) Other unserviceable stores (other than bridging) by: 

Chief Engineer Rs. 40 , 000 /- For each category, store* 

Cmdr, Task Force Rs. j,ooo/- 1 priced at book value. 

Cmdr. GREF Centre f 

Roorkee & Allahabad Rs. 500 /- j 

by the Director General Border Roads, Chief Engineers, Commander Engineers, 
Commanders Task Forces. 

(II) Agreements and other instruments relating to the taking bulk supply 

of electric energy and water from an outside source: 

(a) When the annual payment in each case does not exceed Ra. 10,000/-; 

by Commanders Engineers or Commanders Task Forces. 

(b) When the annual payment in each case exceed Rs. 10,000/- but does 

not exceed Rs. 1,00,000/-; by Chief Engineers. 

(c) When the annual payment In each case exceed Rs. 1,00,000/-; by the 

D.G.B.R. 


7. In the case of Road Wing: — 

All contracts for National Highway Projects; by Consulting Engineer (Road 
Development). 

8 . All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance sub- 
scriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals etc : by an Under 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport (Transport Wing ) 
( Incliarge Establishment) , an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Transport ( Roads Wing) ( Incharge Administration), Chairman, Inter- 
State Transport Commission, Director General-Lighthouses and Lightships, the 
Deputy Director Gerieral of Shipping (senior), of the Directorate General of Ship- 
ping, the Principal Officer Mercantile Marine Department Calcutta / Bombay / Madras, 
the Captain Superintendent of Training Ship ‘Dufferin’ Bombay, the Director of the 
Directorate of Marine Engineering Training Calcutta/ Bombay, the Principal Nauti- 
cal and Engineering College Bombay, the Director (Publicity) of the Department of 
Tourism or the Director of the Government of India Tourist Office, New Delhi / 
Bombay /Calcutta/ Madras, the Chairman Ship Ancillary Industries Committee, 
Bombay. 

XXI. IN THE CASE OP TJIE MINISTRY OF WORKS & HOUSING: — 

(a) All services agreements; by a Deputy Secretary or an Under Secretary 

to the Government of India in the Ministry of Works & Housing. 

(b) Agreements with Employers relating to the grant of subsidy and loan for 

the construction of tenements for their Industrial Workers under the 
Subsidised Industrial Housing Scheme; by a Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Works & 
Housing. 

(c) All contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodical® 



-720 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, I960/VAI8AKHA S, 1888 [Past II- 


etc,; by an Under Secretary to the Govt, of India in the Ministry of 
Works & Housing ( Incharge Administration). 

(d) All contracts and Instruments relating to purchase, hire, repair, polish- 

ing, painting, washing, supply, clearance and conveyance or cartiage 
of materials Including water, electricity, furniture, stores, machinery, 
staff cars, motor cycles; by the Under Secretary, Ministry of Works 
and Housing. 

(e) Contracts relating to the disposal of waste paper, obsolete and waste 

stores; by the Under Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing. 

(f) Contracts for supply of labour and the thelas; by the Under Secretary, 

Ministry of Works and Housing. 

(g) Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government 

servants; by the Under Secretary, Ministry of Works and Housing 

(h) Undertaking guarantee to (he payment of water and electric charges to 

the New Delhi Municipal Committee/Municipal Corporation of Delhi, 
in case of default, with respect to buildings allotted by Government 
on behalf of the Government servants (including Gazetted Officers) 
employed In the Ministry of Works and Housing, who are in occupa- 
tion of Government accommodation; by the Under Secretary, Ministry 
of Works and Housing or a Section Officer to whom the powers have 
been delegated. 

2. In the case of the Printing and Stationery Department; — 

fa) (i) Contracts and instruments relating to the purchase and supply of ma- 
terials, stores and equipment, 

(II) bonds of employees where It is necessary that they should be executed 

by the obligees for the due performance of their duties; by the Chief 
Controller of Printing and Stationery. Controller of Printing, Assistant 
Controller. Printing ( P&S ) New Delhi, Controller of Stationery, Cal- 
cutta. Deputy Controller, Stationery, Calcutta, Assistant Controller 
( Stationery ) ( Purchase ) Calcutta. 

(b) Bonds of Trade Apprentices selected for training under the Trade 

Apprentice Scheme or iheir parents or guardians; by the Head of the 
Government Press concerned, 

(c) Contracts for the execution of printing and binding work: by the Chief 

Controller of Printing and Stationery. Controller of Printing. New 
Delhi. Deputy Controller of Printing New Delhi, Assistant Controller, 
Printing, New Delhi. Controller of Stationery , Calcutta, Assistant 
Controller, Printing ( O.P .) Calcutta, Manager, Government of India 
Form Press. Temple Street, Calcutta. 

(il) (a) Contracts relating to the disposal of wastepaper and miscellaneous un- 
serviceable stores and purchase of local stores; 

(b) contracts for clearance, handling, conveyance and delivery of consign- 

ments and for supply of labour and transport; 

(c) contracts for auction of waste paper and miscellaneous unserviceable 

stores; 

(d) contracts relating to payment of advance subscriptions for the purchase 

of newspapers, magazines, periodicals etc.; 

bu the Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery. Controller of Printing, Con- 
troller of Stationery Deputy Controllers in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Printing and Stationery, anti of the Controller of Stationery. Calcutta, Assistant 
Controller, Stationery, Regional/Stationery Department, Neia Delhi, General 
Managers,' Managers and Head of Press or Branch concerned. 

(III) Contracts for the repairs, periodical Inspection and upkeep of typewriters, 

office equipment and machinery, by the Chief Controller of Printing 
and Stationery and Controller of Stationery, Calcutta. 

(lv) All contracts and other instruments relating to the grant of licences of 
land, shops, houses and other Immovable property In the Government 
of India Press Colony, Naslk Road; by the Manager, Government of 
India Press, Naslk Road. 



Sic; 8 ( 1 )J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 196G/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


721 


(v) Contracts for the maintenance and running of cycle stands and tiffin 
rooms; by the Chief Controller of Punting and Stationery and Deputy 
Controller (Administration) in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Punting and Stationery, Heads of Offices/ Branches m Printing and 
Stationery Department. 

<vi) Contracts with advertisement Agents for Government of India Publica- 
tions; by the Chief Controller of Printing and Stationery. 

<vll) Contracts relating to the advertisement of Government of India Publica- 
tions and contracts relating to the advertisements appearing in Gov- 
ernment of India Publications; by the Manager of Publications, or the 
Assistant Manager of Publications, Government of India Publication 
Branch, Delhi. 

(viii) (a) Contracts relating to the sale of Government of India Publications; 

by authorised agents m India or abroad. 

(b) Contracts with authors of books for payment of royalties etc. when 
they are published as Government of India Publications; by the 
Manager of Publications, Government of India Publication Branch, 
Delhi. 

(Ix) Miscellaneous contracts and agreements; by the Chief Controller, Print- 
ing and Stationery. 

3. In the case of the Directorate of Estates; — 

(i) (a) Security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants whom the 
Director of Estates and the Estate Manager, Bombay and Calcutta 
have the power to appoint, or their sureties, to secuie the due execu- 
tion of an office or the due accounting for money or other property 
received by virtue thereof; 

(b) lease/licences of land, houses and other immovable property provided 

the rent/fee does not exceed Rs. 5,000/- per month; and 

(c) contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided 

in public buildings (1) for catering in hotels and tiffin rooms, (li) for 
the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff working in such 
buildings and (iii) for co-operative stores; societies/ banks/canteens 
etc, run by employees' associations/societies at Delhi/New Delhi 
Faridabad, Simla, Calcutta, Bombay and Nagpur other than those In 
the President's Estate and the Offices of the Indian Audit and 
Accounts Department; 

by the Director of Estates, the Deputy Director of Estates or the Estate Mana- 
ger. Bombay /Calcutta or the Assistant Estate Manager, Simla/ Nagpur/ Faridabad 
Within the if respective jurisdiction. 

(ii) Agreements on Forms 'K' and ‘L’ as prescribed in the Requisitioning and 
Acquisition of Immovable Property Rules, 1955 regarding payment of 
compensation in respect of properties requisitioned under the Requi- 
sitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (30 of 
1952); by the Director/ Deputy Director of Estate or the Manager, 
Bombay / Calcutta. 

(ill) Contracts deeds and other instruments relating to the acceptance of 
Security bonds/indemnity bonds and release of pledge; by the Deputy 
Director of Estates in-change of Litigation in the Directorate of 
Estates. 

4 . In the case of the Central Public Works Department: 

(i) (a) all instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or 
carriage of materials, sto es, machinery etc.; 

(b) all instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds, con- 

nected with buildings, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, 
docks and harbours and embankments and instruments relating to 
the construction of wate rworks, sewage works, the erection of 
machinery, and the working of coal mines; 

(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bond? for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 



722 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1960/VAISAKHA 8 , 1888 [Pa*T II- 


(d) security bonds for the performance of their duties by government ser- 
vants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 

by Chief Engineer, Additional Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers, Divi- 
sional Officers, Sub-Divisional Officers, Assistant Executive Engineers, Assistant 
Engineers, the Military Secretary to the President, Executive Engineer , President’s 
Estates Division, 

(il) Leases for grazing cattle on canal banks o~ road sides; for flsh'ng jn 
canals; for the cu'tivation of land under the Irrigation Department; 
leases of water for irrigation and other purposes; leases of water 
power, and instruments relating to the sale of crass, trees o- other 
produce on road sides or in plantations; by the Chief Engineers, Sup- 
erintending Engineers, Military Secretary to the President or Divi- 
sional Officers, Director of Horticulture and Deputy Director of Horti- 
culture. 

(iii) (a) Leases of houses, land or other immovable property, provided that 
the rent reserved shall not exceed Ks. 5,000 a month; 

(b) all Instruments connected with the reconveyance of property given 

as security; and 

(c) agreements for the recovery of fines on account of drift wood or 
other timber passing into a canal; 

by the Chief Engineers, Additional Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers, 
Military Secretary to the President, Divisional Officer, or the Electrical Engineers 
to the Government of Bombay. In the case of West Bengal, the authority to execute 
deeds and contracts in respect of item (b) above is vested in Chief Engineers only. 

(iv) Instruments connected with the coPection or farming of tools at bridges 

or ferries or othe” means of communication; bi / Chief Engineers, 
Additional Chief Engineers, Superintending Engineers, Divisional 
Officer, Collectors of District in Bombay or the Assistant Commis- 
sioner, Coorg. 

(v) Agreements relating to the loan of tools and plant to contractors and 

others; by Divisional Officers or the Superintending Engineers. 

(vi) Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided 

in public buildings (il for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms (iil for 
the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff working in such 
bui 1 dings and (iil) for cooperative stores/societies /banks /canteens 
etc,, run by the employees associations/societies other than those in 
the President’s Estate and the offices of Tndian Audit and Accounts 
Depa tment at places other than Delhi/New Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta 
and Simla; by Superintending Engineers. 

(vii) (a) Contracts for catering in hostels and tiffin rooms in the President’s 
Estate or for the protection of conveyances belonging to the staff 
working in the President’s Estate; 

(b) agreements for renting rationing and other shop in the President’s 
Estate, Simla and New Delhi and in the Prime Ministers’ Estate, 
New Delhi; 

by the Military Secretary to the President. 

(viii) Agreements for sewer connection with Government sewerage systems; 
by Superintending Engineers. 

(ix) Instruments relating to the sale of immovab’e propertv (lands and 
buildings) the book value of which does not exceed Rs. 10,000; by 
Chief Engineers. Additional Chief Engineers or the Military Secre- 
tary to the President. 

(x) (a) Agreements with retail distributors for the distribution of rationed 
articles; 

(b) agreements and contracts relating to decoration works in public 
buildings; 

by Chief Engineers or Additional Chief Engineers. 

(xi) Bonds relating to lump sum deposits made by contractors for securing 
exemption from payment of earnest money and security deposit in 



S«& 8(f)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1965/VAISAK.HA 3, 1B8B 


723 


individual cases; by Chief Engineer, Central Public Works Department. 

(xii) Bonds relating to the grant of loan to contractors for execution of work 
in individual cases; by the Chief Engineer / Additional Chief Engineer , 
Central Public Works Department. 

(xii) Contracts and instruments relating to the Bombay Military Lands 
Scheme, by the Superintending Engineer, Central Public Works De- 
partment, Central Circle, Bombay. 

5. In the case of the National Buildings Organisation. 

All contracts and assurances of property relating to National Buildings, Orga- 
nisation; by the Director, Natiotial Buildings Organisation, New Delhi. 

6. In the case of the Department of Explosives; 

(I) Security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bond) for due performance of 

their duties by clerks handing cash and valuable stores In the varioui 
offices under the Department; 

(II) contracts’ and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscription for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, periodicals 
etc.; 

by the Head of Offices. 

(Ill) Service agreements; 

(tv) contracts and other Instruments relating to lease of land houses and 
other Immovable properties; for office and offlce-cwn-residentlal 
accommodation etc; 

by the Chief Inspector of Explosives and Inspectors of Explosives, Agra, Bombay, 
Calcutta, Gwalior and Madras. 

7. In the case of Land and Development Office: 

(I) All contracts and assurances of property relating to matters falling 

within the jurisdiction of Land and Development Officer; 

(II) all contracts, deeds or other instruments relating to or for the purpose 

of enforcement of the terms and conditions of the sale/lease deeds of 
the Government Built Property in Delhi/New Delhi; 

(iii) auctioneering agreements, bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for 
the due performance of work by the auctioneers; 

by the Land and Development Officer, Deputy Land Development Officer and 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner. 


XXII. IN THE CASE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ACOMIC ENERGY:— 

A. (i) All contracts and assurances of property relating to the business of the 

Department of Atomic Encrvy; by the Secretary, Joint Secretary or 
a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 
Atomic Energy, or Secretary, Atomic Energy Commission. 

(ii) Contracts relating to printing and binding work; by the Publication 
Officer, Department of Atomic Energy. 

B, In the case of the Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay. 

(i) All contracts and/or instruments relating to work of all kinds; by 
Scientific Officer/Engineer Grades, H,G,F,E,SG,SF£E,SD2, or SD1., 
Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer. 

(11) Contracts for the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of 
equipment and stores machinery etc; by Scientific Officer/Engineer 
Grade H,G,F,E,D,SG.SF,SE,SD2,SD\, Chief Engineer , Superintending 
Engineer, or Executive Engineer, the Controller, the Head, Purchase 
and Stores Division, the Senior Purchase Officer, the Purchase Offi- 
cer, the Assistant Purchase Officer, or the Stores Officer . 



724 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [PaW II- 


(iii) Contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machinery; 

by the Head, Purchase and Stores Division, the Senior Purchase Offi- 
cer, the Purchase Officer or the Assistant Purchase Officer. 

(iv) Contracts and/or instruments relating to disposal of surplus, ohso ete 

or unserviceable stores and equipment scrap etc.; by the Controller, 
the Head, Purchase and Stores Division, the Stores Officer , or the 
Assistant Stores Officer. 

(v) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants; by the Controller, the Head, Personnel Division, the Esta- 
blishment Officer or the Deputy Establishment Officer. 

(vl) All contracts and/or instruments and assurances of property; by the 
Controller, or the Head, Personnel Division. 

(vii) Service Agreements /Service bonds for the fulfilment by Government 
servants of their obligation to serve Government ror a specified period; 
by the Controller, the Head, Personnel Division, the Establishment 
Officer or the Deputy Establishment Officer. 

C. In the case of the Atomic Minerals Division. 

(I) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants; 

(II) contracts for purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of equip- 

ment and sto.es; and 

(iii) all the contracts and assurances of property Including contracts relat- 
ing to the procurement of Atomic and other Minerals; 

by the Director, Atomic Minerals Division, 

D. In the case of the Jaduguda Mines Project. 

(i) Security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government 

servants;. 

(ii) contracts relating to works of all kinds; 

(iii) contracts relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of 

equipment and stores, machinery, etc.; 

by the General Manager, Jaduguda Mines Project. 

E. In the case of the Tarapur Atomic Powar Project. 

(1) All contracts and/or Instruments relating to works of all kinds; 

(ii) agreement relating to the supply of electrical power to the Project 

by agencies other than this Project; 

(iii) agreements relating to supp'y of water or electricity by the Project 

to outsiders, 

(iv) agreement for catering contracts in hostels and canteens; 

(v) agreements regarding grant of licence to outsiders of Project’s land for 

erecting petrol and diesel oil pumps substations for supply of electri- 
city, etc., and agreements for licence to outsiders for crossing Pro- 
ject’s land by means of overhead transmission lines or under ground 
cables etc.; 

(vi) agreements with outsiders for grazing cattle, for cultivation of land, 

and instruments relating to the sale of grass, trees or other products 
on Project’s land; 

(vii) contracts for purchase, supply, conveyance or carriage of equipment 

and stores; and 

(viii) service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern- 
ment servants or their sureties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money or other property received by virtue 

thereof; 



Sea 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2J, 1966/VAISAKHA 3. 1838 725 


(ix) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works, 

by the Project Administrator , and/or the Chief Civil Engineer, Superintending 
Engineer, or Scientific Officer/ Engineer Grades , F.E.D.C. SD2, SD1. 

F. In the case of the Rajasthan Atomic Power Project. 

(i) All Contracts and/or instruments relating to works of all kinds; 

(il) contracts, for the purchase, supply; conveyance or carriage of equip- 
ment and stores; 

(ill) contracts and/or instruments relating to disposal of surplus stores and 
equipment, scrap, etc.; 

by the Project Administrator, Chief Project Engineer, or Additional Chief 
Engineer. 

(iv) Ag’ eements for hire of buildings; 

(v) Service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern- 

ment servants or their su'eties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money or other property received by virtuft 
thereof; 

(vi) Security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 
by the Project Administrator, Chief Project Engineer Additional Chief Engineer, 
Administrative Officer or Scientific Officer/Engineer Grades, SF, SE. SD2. SD 1 in 
the Project. 

(vil) (a) Contracts for the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of 
equipment, stores and machinery; 

(b) contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machine- 
ry, fabrication and assembly of all equipment, components and 
materials Including those reauired for the nuclear portion of thfr 
plant; 

by the Project's Liaison Officer, 

G. In the case of the Atomic Energy Establishment Trombay Housing Project. 

(i) All contracts and other Instruments relating to works of a 1 ! kinds; by 

Scientific Officer /Engineer Grades G, SF, E. SE, SD 2 or SD l, Project 
Engineer, Superintending Engineer or Executive Engineer. 

(II) Contracts for the purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage of equip- 

ment and stores, machincrv and the like; bv Scientific Officer /Engi- 
neer Grades SF, E, SE, SD2, SD 1, Project Engineer, Superintending 
Engineer, or Executive Engineer, 

(III) Contracts relating to servicing of equipment, instruments or machinery; 

by the Scientific Officer /Engineer-Grades E, SE, Superintending Engi- 
neer, Executive Engineer, Assistant Personnel Officer. 

(Iv) Contracts and other instruments relating to disposal of surplus, obsolete 
or unserviceable stores, equipment, scrap and the like; by the Scienti- 
fic Officer /Engineer-Grades E, SE, Superintending Engineer, Execu- 
tive Engineer, Assistant Personnel Officer. 

(v) Security bonds for the performance of their duties hv Government 

servants; by the Scientific Officer /Engineer Grades SD2 or SD 1. Pro- 
ject Eigineer, Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineer. 

(vi) All contracts and assurances of property; by the Project Engineer, Sup- 

erintending Engineer. 

(vii) Service Agreements /Service bonds for the fulfilment by Government 

servants of their obligation to serve Government fo- a specified period; 
by the Project Engineer, Superintending Engineer. 

H. In the case of the Experimental Satellite Communications Earth Station, 
Ahmedabad: — • 

(1) All contracts and other instruments relating to works of all kinds; 

(ii) contracts, for the purchase, supp’y conveyance or carriage of equip- 

ment and stores; 



726 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VA1SAKHA 3, 1888 [P 4 .IW H- 

(iii) contracts and other instruments relatnig to disposal of surplus stores 

and equipment, scrap, etc.; 

(iv) agreements for hire of buildings; 

(v) service agreements and security bonds of cashiers and other Govern- 

ment servants or their sureties for the performance of their duties or 
the due accounting of the money of other property received by virtue 
thereof; 

(vi) security bonds for the due performance and completion of works; 
by the Director. 

XXIII. IN THE CASE OF DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS. 

1. Security bonds for the due performance of their duties by Government ser- 
vants; by a Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of 
Communications. 

2. In the case of Government of India Overseas Communications Service: 

(a) All contracts and other instruments relating to the business of and all 
agreements or leases for the hire of buildings and lands for the Over- 
seas Communications Service; by the Director General of Overseas 
Communications Service. 

(b) (i) Contracts/instruments relating to leasing of channels etc.; 

(ii) surety bonds relating to training of Traffic Staff etc.: 
by the Deputy Director General (Traffic). 

(c) (i) Contracts and other instruments relating to leases for the hire of 

buildings/lands/telephone connection etc.; 

(ii) surety bonds 1 elating to training of Engineering Staff; 
by the Chief Engineer. 

(d) Security bonds for the du,e performance of their duties by Govern- 

ment servants; by Heads of Offices ( O.C.S . Centres). 

(e) Execution of contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of 

advance subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines, 
periodicals etc.; by the Director of Administration. O.C.S. and the 
Heads of Offices (O.C.S. Centres) 

8. In the case of Monitoring Organisation: 

(1) All Instruments relating to the purchase or hire, supply cr conveyance 
of materials, stores, machinery, plant, telephone lines and connections 
and water and electric supply; 

(ii) Agreements or leases for the hire of the buildings and lands required 
for the Monitoring Organisation; 

;iii) service agreements with subordinate staff; 

(iv) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their sure- 
ties to secure due execution of an office; 

by the Wireless Adviser to the Government of India in the Department of Com- 
munications. 

(v) Se'vice agreements with the Class IV staff; by the Head of Office of the 

Monitoring Organisation; 

(vi) Agreements in regard to - cultivation or grass cutting rights or sale of 

trees at the Monitoring Stations; by the Wireless Adviser to the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Department of Communication:' or Deputy 
Wireless Adviser to the Government of India in 1 he Department of 
Communications or Assistant Wireless Adviser to the Government of 
India in the Department of Communications or Engineer-in-Charge or 
Engineer in the Monitoring Organisation. 



^c. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, I966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


727 


4. In the esse of the Posts and Telegraphs Department- — 

(1) Contracts and other inst'uments relating to the business of Posts and 
Telegraphs Department; 

(11) contracts and other instruments relating to telephone connections; 

(iii) policies relating to the Post Office Insurance Fund and Baroda State 
Insurance Fund; 

<iv) (a) acceptance of indemnity bonds and loan bonds In connection with 
payment (including sanction of loan) relating to 1 Postal Life Insur- 
ance policies; 

(b) ' release and re-assignment of the Postal Life Insurance Policies to 
Insurants; 

(v) security bonds of cashiers and other Gove nment servants or their sure- 
ties to secure the due execution of an office or the due accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

(vl) instruments relating to the acceptance of the transfer from or assign- 
ment by, one party to another of deposits relating to the Own Your 
Exchange Scheme and benefits thereof; 

(vii) agreements and other instruments for the conveyance of forms, leases 
for hire of buildings, and lands for Posts and Telegraphs Forms Stores; 

(viii) contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation in build- 
ings belonging to the P. & T. Department for ( 1 ) catering in hostels 
and tiffin rooms (ii) the protection of conveyances belonging to the 
staff working in such buildings and (iii) co-operative stores/societies/ 
banks/canteens run by the employees associations/societies; 

by a gazetted officer of the Indiaii Posts & Telegraphs Department , subject to such 
conditions as may be laid down by the Posts & Telegraphs Board. 

XXIV. IN THE CASE OF DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL WELFARE: — 

1. In the case of the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes; 

Leases of buildings and other immovable property for the use of the Offices 
under the control of the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Sche- 
duled Tribes where the buildings or other immovable property are to 
be utilised entirely as office or part'y as office and partly as residence 
or for residential o' other purposes and where the rent payable under 
such leases does not exceed the amounts that the Commissioner is 
competent to sanction as a Head of the Department under the Dele- 
gation of Financial Powers Rules, 1958; as amended from time to time; 
by the Commissioner for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 

2. In the case of Training Centre for the Adult Blind, Debra Dun: 

Contracts for the supply of ration articles, dai-y products, vegetables etc,; 
by the Superintendent, Training Centre for the Adult Blind, Presi- 
dent’s Bodyguard Lines, Raipur Road, Dear a Dun. 

3. Contracts and other instruments relating to the office of All Tndia Handicrafts 
Board and lease deeds of land given to the Board; by the Chief Executive Officer, 
All India Handicrafts Board. 

4. Bonds executed by the grantee institutions, contracts for loans to and deeds 
of mortgages of immovable properties executed by the institutions/organisationa 
In favour of the President; 

by the Secretary, Central Social Welfare Board , New Delhi. 

XXV, KN THE CASE OF PLANNING COMMISSION: — 

1. (i) All service agreements and security bon^s for due performance of their 
duties by Government serv’.nts; by Joint Secretary to the Government 
of India in the Planning Commission. 

(Ii) Bon^s and guarantees submitted by Government servants in connection 
with their proceeding abroad on study leave/training; and finalisation 
of their accounts pending the issue of ‘no demand certificates’ In their 
favour by the authority conce ned; by an Under Secretary to the Gov- 
ernment of India in the Planning Commission. 



728 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25. 1966/VAISAKHA 5, 1888 [Pact II- 


(lil) Contracts and instruments relating to payment of advance subscriptions 
for the purchase of newspapers, magazines and periodicals etc ; by an 
Secretary to the Government of India declared as Head at 

I ITT! n0 1 


(iv) Contracts and other instruments relating to sale of all kinds of waste 

paper and sweeping and obsolete material; 

(v) contracts and other Instruments in 1 espert of accommodation provided 

in public buildings under, occupation of P nnnlng Commission (i) for 
canteen and tiffin rooms; (ii) for the nrotection of conveyances be- 
longing to the staff working In such buildings; (iii) for Fruit stalls etc.; 
and (iv) for coope ative societies/stores run by employees’ associa- 
tions/societies; and 

(vi) security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Rond) for the performance of 

their duties by the Assistants/Clerks/Cashiers handling cash; 
by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Planning Commission. 

2. Contracts and assurances of property relating to the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation; — 

(1) All service agreements and security bonds for due performance of their 
duties bv Government servants; h?/ a Joint Secretary to the Govern- 
ment of India in the Planning Commission. 

(ii) Leases of houses, office accommodation, land or other immovable pro- 
perty, 

(111) security bonds (in Fideh'tv Guarantee Bond) for due performance of 
their duties by Assistants, Clerks and Cashiers handling cash; and 

(iv) ‘Job Contracts’ be. contracts for technical processing and mechanical 
tabulation of data etc.; 

by an Under Secretary to the Government of India in the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation. 

3. Security bonds (in Fidelity Guarantee Bond) fo" due performance of their 
duties bv the Assistants. Clerks and Cashiers handling cash m the Committee on. 
Plan Frolects; bv an Under Secretary, to the Government of India in the Com- 
mittee on Plan Projects. 

4. Miscellaneous contracts and Instruments relating to the Planning Commis- 
rion and the Programme Evaluation Organisation; by a Demin Secretary to the 
Government of India in the Planning Commission and those relating to Committee 
on Plan Proiects; by an Under Secretary to the Govt, of India in the Committee on 
Plan Projects. 


XXVI. IN THE CASE OF CABINET SECRETARIAT (DEPARTMENT OF 
STATISTICS): — 

A. In the case of Central Statistical Organisation at New Delhi: 

All service agreements; by the Competent appointing authority. 

B. In the case of Central Statistical Organisation (Industrial Statistics Wing) at 
Calcutta; 

(i) All contracts and other instruments relating to the nnvmcnt of advance 
subscriptions for the nurchaso nf npwsnaners. magazines, periodicals 
etc,; by the Administrative Officer ( subject to the authorisation of the 
Joint Director)-, 

(11) Order forms for the supp’y on hire of equipments from T.C.T./I.B.M., 
by the Joint Director. 

C. In the case of Directorate of National Sample Survey, New Delhi and Its 
Regional Offices: 

(i) Surety bonds of Cashier and other Government servants and/or their 
sureties to secure the due execution of an office or due .accounting for 
money or other property received by virtue thereof; by the Assistant 



kc. 5<i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


729 


Directors/ Statisticians/ Superintendents in the Regional Offices /Head- 
quarters office of the Directorate. 

(ii) Service agreements; by the Assistant Director /Statisticians /Superinten- 

dents; 

(iii) Leases of land, houses and other immovable properties; by the Heads 

of offices in the RegionaL Offices viz. Assistant Directors/ Statisticians 
Regional Officers/Assistant Statisticians /Superintendents, as the case 
may be. 

XXVII. IN THE CASE OF THE PRIME MINISTER'S SECRETARIAT: — 

(i) All contracts and instruments relating to supply of rations, clothing and 

similar material for the needs of the various organisations and Train- 
ing Centres under the Director General (Security) ; 

(ii) All contracts and instruments relating to the purchase/iease of land; by 

the Deputy Director, SSB Directorate , Divisional Organisers, SSB, 
D.I.G.s of SSB Training Centres, Deputy Director Frontier Administra- 
tive Officers Training Centre, Deputy Director ( Admm .) , ARC Direc- 
torate, and Deputy Director (Admn.), S.F.F. 

XXVm. IN THE CASE OF THE PARLIAMENT SECRETARIAT: — 

A, In the case of the Secretariat of the House of the People: — 

1. (1) All contracts and instruments relating to purchase, supply and convey- 

ance or carnage of stationery, furniture, stores and machinery; 

(ii) security bonds for the due performance of their duties by the officers 

of the Secretariat; and 

(iii) all miscellaneous contracts and instruments; 

by the Under Secretary /Deputy Secretary in the Secretariat of the House of the 
People. 

2. (i) Instruments relating to the re-assignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the Governor General before the 26th January, 1950 and 
the President on or after that date in accordance with the rules regu- 
lating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed; by the 
Accounts Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund. 

(ii) Instruments relating to tho assignment of insurance policies in favour 
of President in accordance with rules regulating the Provident Fund 
from which the policy is financed; by the Accounts Officer of the Fund 
as defined in the rules of the Fund. 

B. In the case of Secretariat of the Council of states: — 

1. (i) Instruments relating to the re-asslgnment of insurance policies which are 
assigned to the Governor General before the 26th January, i960 and 
the President on or after that date in accordance with the rules re- 
gulating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed; by 
the Accounts Officer of the Fund as defined in the rules of the Fund. 

(ii) Instruments relating to the assignment of insurance policies in favour 
of President in accordance with rules regulating the Provident Fund 
from which the policy is financed; by the Accounts Officer of the Fund 
as defined in the rules of the Fund. 


XXIX. IN THE CASE OF THE INDIAN AUDIT AND ACCOUNTS DEPART- 
MENT: — 

1. Security bonds or mortgage deeds given as security in connection with the 
employment of Treasurers, Cashiers or clerks charged with the disbursement of 
money or the custody and handling of securities; by the Head of the Office. 

2. (1) Instruments relating to tho reassignment of insurance policies which are 

assigned to the Governor-General before the 26th January, 1950 and 
the President on or after that date in accordance with the rules regu- 
lating the Provident Fund from which the policy is financed; by the 
Accounts Officer of the Fund, as defined in the rules of the Fund. 



73 O THE GAZETTE OF INDIA i APRIL 23, 1968/ VAIS AKHA 3, 1888 [P A ttr II- 


(ii) Instruments relating to the assignment of insurance policies in favour 
of President of India in accordance with rules regulating the Provi- 
dent Fund from which the policy is financed; by the Accounts Officer 
of the Fund,' as defined in the rules of the Fund. 

3. (a) All contracts and other instruments relating to the purchase, hire or 

conveyance of materials, office furniture and other equipment. 

(b) leases or agreements for the hire of buildings for office or residential 

purposes of the Department; and 

(c) All instruments relating to disposal of waste paper; 
by the Head of the Office. 

4, Contracts, agreements and other instruments relating to the advances grant- 
ed by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to Government servants In 
the Indian Audit and Accounts Department for the purchase of motor cars motor 
cycles or houses or for building houses; by the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India or the Deputy Comptroller & Auditor General of India . 


Provided that in the case of advances granted by the Government to the 
Director of Audit, Indian Accounts, London and the Director of Audit, Indian 
Accounts, Washington, such contracts, agreements and other instruments may also 
be executed; by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or the Deputy: 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India. 


5. Contracts, agreements and other instruments relating to advances granted to 
Government servants for the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles or houses 
or for building houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festival or 
for floods etc., or advances of pay and travelling allowance on transfer and tour 
or advances of pay to persons proceeding on deputation abroad, or advances in 
respect ol! the Travel concession Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities 
granting the advances. 


Provided that in the case of the officers and staff under the Director of Audit, 
Indian Accounts, United Kingdom or of officers and staff under the Director of 
Audit, Indian Accounts Washington, such contracts and instruments relating to 
the grant of advances for the purchase of motor cars and motor cycles, may also 
be executed; by the Director of Audit, Indian Accounts, London and the Director 
of Audit, Indian Accounts, Washington, respectively. 

6 Contracts and other instruments in respect of accommodation provided in 
oublie or rented buildings (1) for the protection of conveyances belonging to the 
staff working in such buildings and (ii) for cooperative stores i/ societies /banks 
canteens 'Ac., run by emp'oyees’ associations/Societies; by the authority adminis- 
tratively controlling the employees for whom the stores etc. cater. 

7 All deeds and instruments relating to any matters other than those specified 
in items 1 to 6; by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the Deputy Comp- 
troller and Auditor General of India, the Additional Deputy Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India, Accountants General, Chief Auditors of Railways, Direc- 
tor. of Commercial Audit, and Director of Audit, Defence Services. 

XXX IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER, ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS, AS REGARDS 
CONTRACTS, NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED: — 

1 (i) Ah deeds, contracts and other instruments in the matters connected 

with the working and business of the Public Works Department 
which are beyond the powers of the Principal Engineer; by the Chief 
Secretary with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner. 

(II) All deeds, contracts and other Instruments relating to ^e Andaman 
Public Works Department; by the Principal Engineer, Superintending 
Engineer, Divisional Officers , Sub-Divisional Officers. 

0 All deeds contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 

2, All de ^|’ nt c ™™ a a nd general administration; by the Chief Secretary with 

the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner. 

1 m Ml deeds contracts and other instruments relating to th e Forest De- 

} partment Tver Rupees Five lakhs; by the Chief Conservator of 
Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Commissioner. 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAXHA 8, 1888 


731 


(li) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De- 
partment upto the limit of Rs. 3 lakhs; by the Conservator of Forests 
with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests. 

(lit) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De- 
partment upto a limit of Rs. 1 lakh; bfi the Deputy Conservator of 
Forests with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests. 

(iv) All deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to the Forest De- 
partment upto a limit of Rs. 50,000/-; by the Assistant Conservator 
of Forests ( Depot pivisi on), Andaman Go-vernpient Timber Depot , 
Madras with the prior approval of the Chief Conservator of Forests. 

4. All deeds, contracts and other Instruments relating to their respective de- 
partments/offlce; by the concerned Heads of offices within the following monetary 
limits: — 

(a) If the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 3000/- in each case, 
by the Head of Office himself. 

tbj If the total value involved exceeds Rs, 3000/- but does not exceed 
Rs. 5000/- in each case; with the prior approval of the Chief Secre- 
tary. 

(c) If the total value involved exceeds Rs. 5000/- in each case, with the 
prior approval of the Chief Commissioner. 


XXXI. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER, DELHI, AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN- 
BEFORE SPECIFIED: — 


1. All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
items 2 to 6 below; by the Chief Commissioner. 

2. (a) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries, dues for 

grazing cattle on places other than canal bankB, fisheries, nazul 
buildings, spontaneous products and minerals, execution of minor 
works not under the Public Works Department, and the supply of 
necessaries depots; 

(b) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the lease or 

sale of land; 

(c) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary Jurisdiction; 

(d) Instruments of free grants of proprietary right in land; 

(e) instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as 

security for a loan; and 

(f) Instruments of exchange of land; 

by the Deputy Commissioner, the Chief Secretary, a Secretary , a Deputy Secretary 
an Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or in so far as contracts under (c) 
are concerned, by the Land and Development Officer, Ministry of Works and 
Housing , Dr in so far as contracts and instruments under clauses (b), (c) and (e) 
are concerned, by the Development Commissioner, the Assistant Development Com- 
missioner or the Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies, or in so far as con- 
tracts and instruments under clauses (b), (e) and (f) are concerned, by the 
Housing Commissioner, the Deputy Housing /the Assistant Housing Commissioner 
or the. Officer on Special Duty ( Local Self Government Department) . 

3. Contracts for the supply of clothing for the police; by the Inspector General 
of Police, Delhi. 

4. Contracts for the supply of articles for use In jails or regarding the sale 
of articles manufactured in jails; by the Inspector General of Prisons, Punjab. 

5. Contracts and other instruments for the supply of stores clothing and other 
equipment; by the Chief Secretary or a Secretary or a Deputy Secretary or o( 
Under Secretary to the Chief Commissioner or the Head of Departments concerned 



7J2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 [Part II- 

6. (a) Contracts and other instruments relating to mattors connected with 

their respective Departments (including mining leases) ; 

(b) contracts and other instruments relating to the payment of advance 

subscriptions for the purchase of newspapers, magazines,' periodicals 
etc.; 

(c) security bonds of cashiers and other Government servants or their 

sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due account- 
ing for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

by all Heads of Departments. 

Provided that— 

(t) In the case of the Development Department, such contracts and instru- 
ments may also be executed; by the Assistant Development Com- 
missioner or the Deputy Registrar, Co-operative Societies; 

(2) in the case of the Land and Housing Department, such contracts and 

instruments may also be executed; by the Deputy Housing Com- 
missioner, Assistant Housing Commissioner or the Officer on Special 
Duty (Local Self Government Department). 

(3) in the case of the Directorate of Civil Supplies, such contracts and 

Instruments may also be executed; by the Joint Director, Civil Supplies. 

7, Agreements with the authorised wholesale and retail dealers in connection 
with the implementation of the scheme of statutory rationing in the Union terri- 
tory of Delhi; by the Chief Controller of Rationing , Delhi, Controller of Rationing, 
Delhi Deputy Controller of Rationing, Delhi. 

XXXII. IN THE CASE OF UNION TERRITORY OF DADRA AND NAGAR 
HAVELI: — 

1. All contracts and instruments relating' to matters other than those herein- 
after specified; by the Administrator. 

2. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Government 
servants for the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles, or houses or for 
building purposes, or for medical attendance and treatment, or for festival* 
marriages, funerals or other ceremonies or for floods, etc., or advances of pay and 
Travelling Allowance on transfer and tour, or advances of pay to persons pro- 
ceeding on deputation abroad, or advances in respect of Travel Concession 
Scheme during regular leave; by the authorities granting the advances. 

3. Security bonds required to be executed by the members of the staff in con- 
nection with their employment; by the Chief of Police in respect of the Police 
Department, by the Chief Forest Officer in respect of the Forest Department, by 
the Survey Mamlatdar in respect of the Survey Department, by the Mamlatdar 
In respect of the Sub-treasury, by the Excise Officer in respect of the Excise De- 
partment, by the Engineer in respect of the Public Works Department, bv the 
Officer in Charge of the court in respect of a Court, by a Block Development! 
Officer in respect of the Development Department, by a Mamlatdar in respect of 
the Rural Section, by the Agriculture and Veterinary Officer in respect of the 
Agriculture and Veterinary Department, and by the Chief Medical Officer in respect 
of the Medical Department. 

4. All contracts and instruments relating to works executed by the Forest 
Officer : — 

( a ) up to Rs. 10,000/-; by the Chief Forest Officer with the approval of the 

Engineer, Public Works Department; 

(b) upto Rs. 50,000/-.; by the Collector. 

5. Contracts relating to renewal of Eksali (yearly) leases of lands by the- 
Forest Department; by the Chief Forest Officer. 

6. Contracts relating to supply of forest products to paper mills and Industries 
and supply to catacheu to factories; by the Collector. 

7. Contracts and other Instruments relating to matters connected with the 
administration and working of forests and the business of the Forest Department^ 
other than those specified in items 4, 5 and 6 above: — 

(a) up to Rs. 5,000/- in each case for periods not exceeding one year; by 
the Chief Forest Officer ; and. 



Sfc. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, I966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


733 


(b) upto Rs. 50,000/- In each case for periods not exceeding three years: by 
the Collector. 

8. Contracts for supply of B.N.D, stones to the Survey Department; by the 
Survey Mamlatdar subject to the prior approval of rate and quantity by the 
Collector. 


9. Contracts for the purchase, hire, supply and conveyance of all materials 
required for survey work: — 

(a) upto Rs. 500/- in each case; by the Survey Mamlatdar; 

(b) In other cases; by the Collector. 

10. Contracts and instruments relating to sale of liquor and toddy and tapping 
of toddy trees, including issuing licences therefor; by the Excise Officer sub fed to 
the approval of the sale pried of liquor and toddy by the Collector. 

11. Contracts and instruments relating to purchase, sale and supply of gur, 
mahua flowers, and other raw materials for the distillery; by the Excise Officer 
subject to the approval of the rate and quantity by the Collector. 

12. Contracts and Instruments relating to the purchase of machinery and other 
equipment for the distillery: — 

(a) upto Rs. 500/-; by the Excise Officer; and 

(b) upto Rs. 5,000/-; by the Collector. 

13. All contracts and instruments as regards matters not hereinbefore specified, 
In respect of the Excise Department; by the Collector. 

14. Contracts and Instruments relating to matters connected with purchase, 
sale, supply and conveyance of materials, stores, machinery and other equipment 
required by the Public Works Department: — 

(a) upto Rs. 500/- in each case; by the Engineer; 

(b) upto R's, 10,000/- in each case; bp the Collector. 

15. Contracts and Instruments relating to matters connected with the execution 
of works by the Public Works Department; — 

(a) upto Rs. 10,000/-; by the Engineer; and 

(b) upto Rs. 50.000/-; by the Collector. 

16. Contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with bonds exe- 
cuted by auctioneers and performance and completion of works; by the Engineer, 
Public Works Department. 

17. Contracts and instruments relating to leases of houses, lands and other im- 
movable property: — 

(a) upto R’s. 100/- per month; by the Engineer, Public Works Department; 

and 

(b) upto Rs. 5,000/- per month; by the Collector. 

18. Contracts relating to purchase of Immovable property upto Rs. 50,000/-; 
by the Collector. 

If). Contracts relating to Indenture Bonds for secured advances: — 

(a) upto Rs. 10,000/-; by the Engineer, Public Works Department; and 

(b) upto Rs, 50,000/-; by the Collector. 

20. Contracts relating to the loan of Government property to contractors and 
others; by the Engineer, Public Works Department subject to the approval of the 
rate of hire charges by the M Collector in cases where such charges are not laid 
down in the C.P.W.D. Manual. 

21. Contracts relating to loans to goldsmiths upto Rs, 2,000/-; by the 
Mamlatdar. 


22. Contracts in respect of Taccavl loans; by the Block Development Officer 
tsr the Mamlatdar. 



734 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 [Part 


23. Contracts relating to loans for Industrial development and to co-operative 
societies upto Rs. 50,000/-; by the Collector. 

24. Contracts lr regard to observance of conditions for recovering taxes In 
weekly bazars, mutton shops, numbering of carts and sale of grass on Government 
lands under the Rural Section; by the Mamlatdar of the Rural Section. 

25. Contracts relating to charges In respect of supply of diet to prisoners; bu 
the Mamlatdar of the Rural Section. 

20. Contracts entered into with Medical Anti-malaria, Nursing personnel and 
Sanitary Inspector belonging to Class III and Class IV; by the Chief Medical 
Officer. 

27- Contracts of or relating to service with Civil Medical Practioners; by 
the Collector. 

28. Contracts for the supply of instruments, apparatus, accessories and other 
supplies required by the Medical Department: — 

(a) upto Rs. 500/-; by the Chief Medical Officer; and 

(b) upto Rs. 10,000/-; by the Collector. 

29. Contracts relating to fidelity guarantee Insurances in respect of Govern- 
ment property and vehicles upto Rs, 50,000/-; by the Collector. 

30. Contracts relating to food grains upto Rs. 50,000/-; by the Collector. 


31. Contracts relating to auction sales for recovery of Government dues upto 
Rs. 23,000/-; by the Collector. 

32. Contracts with Contract Officers; by the Collector. 

■JOTICTU IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF GOA, 
DAMAN AND DIU AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREBEFORE SPECI- 
FIED:— 

All deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 
administration of the territories; by the Secretary of the Department 
concerned subject to the monetary limits prescribed under the Busi- 
ness Rules. 

yvvtv IN THE CASE OF THE UNION TERRITORY OF HIMACHAL PRA- 
DESTL AS REGARDS CONTRACTS ETC., NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED: - 

1 All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
item 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 below; by a Secretary to the Himachal Pradesh Administra- 
tion. 

2 Contracts and other Instruments relating to matters connected with the 
administration of forests and the business of the Forest Department, but not re- 
lating to the purchase or sale or permanent acquisition of land.— 

(a) if the amount or value does not exceed Rs. 2,000/-; by the Divisional 
Forest Officer; 

(bl if the amount or value does not exceed Rs. 50,000; by the Conservator of 
Forests; and 

(c) if the amount or value exceeds Rs. 50,000; but not Rs. 1,00,000; by the 
Chief Conservator of Forests. 

3 Sanctions of petty leases for specified purposes, such as water mills, shops, 

Umber depots.-^ ^ ppr each case for periods not exceeding five 

years; bu the Divisional Forest Officer. 

(bl uplo Rs. 3,000 ner annum in each case for periods not exceeding ve 
years' by Conservator of Forests and 
(c) upto Rs 5 000 p-r annum in each case for period not exceeding five 
(c ’ b,. the Chief Conservator of Forests. 

4 in the 'cos- of the Public Works Department: — 

(a) All instruments relating to purchase, supply and conveyance or carriage 
of materials, stores, machinery etc.. 



Jkc. 8(i}] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28* 1908/VAISAKHA 8, 1888' 


(b) all Instruments relating to the execution of works of all kinds con- 

nected with building, bridges, roads, canals, tanks, reservoirs, and em- 
bankments and instruments relating to the construction of water works 
and the erection of machinery; 

(c) bonds of auctioneers and security bonds for the due performance and 

completion of works; and 

(d) security bonds for the performance of their duties by Government ser- 

vants whom the officers specified below have power to appoint; 

by Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineers, Divisional Officers, Sub-Divisional 
Officers * Assistant Executive Engineers, Assistant Electrical Engineers arid Assis- 
tant Engineers, 

8. (a) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries, dues for graz- 
ing cattle on places other than forests, fisheries, nazul buildings, spon- 
taneous products and minerals, execution of minor works not under 
the Public Works Department; and for the supply of necessary depots; 

(b) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the lease or 

sale of lands; 

(c) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction; 

(d) instruments of free grants of proprietary rights in land; 

(e) instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as 

security for a loan; and 

(f) instruments of exchange of land; 

by the Deputy Commissioner in or a Secretary or an Under Secretary to the Hima- 
chal Pradesh Administration. 

0. Contracts for the supply of clothing etc. for the Police; by Secretary to the 
Himachal Pradesh Administration. 

7. Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails: or regarding the sale of 
articles manufactured in jails; by the Inspector General of Prisons , Himachal Pra- 
desh. 

8. Contracts and other instruments for the supply of stores, clothing etc; by 
the Heads of Departments concerned. 

9. Contracts for booking premises and engagement of private vehicles; by the 
Regional Managers of Himachal Pradesh Government Transport. 

10. Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with their 
respective departments (including mining leases) ; by the Head of the Department 
concerned. 

11. Contracts and instruments relating to lease of premises for office purpose 
when the annual rent does not exceed Rs. 500/-; by the Head of Office. 

XXXV. IN T HE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OiTthI 
ADMINISTRATOR, LACADIVE, MINICOY AND AMINDIVI ISLANDS, AS 
REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED: — 

All deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the 
adminitstration of the Islands; by the Administrator. 

XXXVI. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
CHIEF COMMISSIONER MANIPUR AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN- 
BEFORE SPECIFIED: — 

1. All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
items 2 to 7 below; by the Chief Commissioner or any other officer authorised to 
authenticate orders and other instruments made and executed in the name of the 
Administrator, in accordance with rules made under sub-section (3) of 'section 

of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963- 

2. Deeds, contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the sale of 
forest produce of all kinds if the amount or value does not in any case exceed 
Rs. 2,000/-; by the Chief Forest Officer. 

3. Deeds, contracts and other instruments relating to: — 

(i) execution of minor works fqr the Police Department not under 1 2 3 the Pub- 
lic Works Department, and 



736 the gazette of india : april 23, 1966/vaisakha 3, leas (P A * T 11- 


(U) supply of articles and medicines for use by the Manipur Rifles and any 
matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction; 

by the Superintendent of Police. 


4. Contracts for supply of articles for use in jail or regarding the sale of arti- 
cles manufactured in jail; by the Inspector General of Prisons. 

5. Contracts for supply of articles and medicines for use in hospitals; by the 
Director of Medical and Health Services. 


0. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Public Works Department; 
by Executive Engineers and by Assistant Engineers, where the value in each case 
does not exceed Rs. 6000.00. 


7. Deeds and contracts for the supply of articles and execution of minor works 
not under the Public Works Department, required for use of any department and 
other instruments connected with the administration of that department; by the 
Head of the Department concerned . 

XXXVII. IN THE CASE OP THE NORTH EAST FRONTIER AGENCY AS 
REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREINBEFORE SPECIFIED: — 

1. (a) Contracts and other instruments in matters connected with prospecting 

and exploring licenses and mining leases; and 

lb) Contracts and other instruments for the sale, purchase, supply, carriage 
or conveyance of stores and building materials and for the provision 
of labour and for public works and such like engagements; 

by the Adviser to the Governor of Assam, North East Frontier Agency or the 
Secretary General, Administration, North East Frontier Agency, the Political 
Officers, Tirap, Lohit, Slang, Subansiri and Kameng Frontier Divisions. 

2. (a) Service contracts to be executed in connection with the recruitment of 

Officers to the Assam Rifles; and 

(b) Security Bonds of Cashiers in Battalion Headquarters of the Assam 
Rifles and other Government Servants employed in the Assam Rifles 
or their sureties to secure the due execution of an office or the due 
accounting for money or other property received by virtue thereof; 

by the Adviser to the Governor of Assam, North East Frontier Agency of the 
Inspector General of Assam Rifles, 


3. All contracts and instruments relating to matters connected with the sale, 
supply, carriage or conveyance of stores and building materials, or for the provi- 
sion of labour, and service contracts with the staff; by the Director of Supply and 
Transport, North East Frontier Agency. 

4. All deeds and instruments relating to matters other than those specified in 
items 1 to 3 above; by the Adviser to the Governor of Assam, Nwth East Frontier 
Agency or the Secretani General Administration, North East Frontier Agency. 


Assam Rifles. 

XXXVIII IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE 
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR, PONDICHERRY: — 

1 (a) Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries, dues for grazing 
cattle on places other than canal banks, fisheries, nazul buildings, spontaneous 
products and minerals; 

(b) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the lease or 
sale of land; 

(c) contracts relating to any matters falling within his ordinary jurisdiction; 

(d) instruments of free grants of proprietary right in land; 

(e> instruments whereby property is mortgaged to the Government as securi- 
ty for a loan; and 


5. Contracts for the supply of stores to 
Quarters: upto a limit of Rs. 1,00,000/-" by 
Deputy Inspector General of Assam Rifles 
Rs. 1,00,000/-; by the Inspector General of 


the Assam Rifles Battalions and Head 
the Inspector General of Assam Rifles, 
and in case of contracts in excess of 



Sec. 5(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1906/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


737 


(t) instruments of exchange of land; by the Chief of the Contributions De- 
partment or Secretary-in-Chctrge of the Contributions Department. 

2. Contracts for the supply of clothing, arms and ammunition, haadgear, hel- 
mets, police band articles and provisions for use in the Police Department; by the 
Inspector General of Police. 

3. Contracts for the supply of articles for use in jails, or regarding the sale of 
articles manufactured in jails; by the Superintendents of Police, Pondicherry mid 
Karaikal. 

4. Contracts and other Instruments for the supply of stores and clothing; by 
the Secretary in charge of the Department concerned, 

5. Contracts and agreements relating to hire of tractors, oil engines, agricul- 
tural Implements and tools to private parties by the Agriculture Department; by 
the Director of Agriculture. 

6. Contracts and other instruments relating to matter connected with a Depart- 
ment (including mining leases); by the Chief Commissioner or the Secretary-in - 
charge of the Department concerned or by the Head of the Department if autho- 
rised by. the Lieutenant Governor. 

XXXIX. IN THE TERRITORIES UNDER THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
ADMINISTRATION TRIPURA AS REGARDS CONTRACTS NOT HEREIN- 
BEFORE SPECIFIED: — 

1. All contracts relating to matters connected with settlement of land: — 

(a) when the contract is not one relating to settlement of land in Raiyoti 

right; by the Collector of Tripura with the approval of the Adminis- 
trator; and 

(b) when the contract is one relating to settlement of land in Raiyoti right 

whatever the annual revenue may be; by the Collector of Tripura or 
by the Sub-Divisional Officers /Additional sub -Divisional Officers in 
their respective stib-division subject to the approval of the Collector, 
the approval of the Administrator in both cases being necessary. 

2. Contracts and other instruments connected with ferries under the control 
of the Government grazing fees, natural products and minerals, execution of 
minor works not under the Public Works Department: — 

(a) If the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 500; by the Sub-Divi- 

sional Officers /Divisional Forest Officers of the Forest Division con- 
cerned with the appoval of the Administrator; and 

(b) if such value exceeds Rs, 500 but does not exceed Rs, 1 , 000 ; by the 

Collector / Chief Forest Officer of Tripura with the approval of the 
Administrator. 

3. Contracts and other instruments in matters connected with the sale of forest 
produce of all kinds and leases of reserved forests for cultivation: — 

(a) if the total value involved does not exceed R's. 10 , 000 ; by the Chief 
Forest Officer, Tripura with the approval of the Administrator; and 

(fc>) if such value exceeds Rs. 10,000; by the Secretary to the Government 
in the Forest Department with the approval of the Administrator. 

4. Contracts and other instruments relating to expenditure on conservancy of 
forests and works undertaken by the Forest Department : — 

(a) if the total value involved does not exceed Rs, 10 , 000 ; by the Chief 

Forest Officer, Tripura, with the approval of the Administrator; and 

(b) If such value exceeds Rs. 10,000; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the Forest Department with the approval of the Administrator. 

5. Contracts and other instruments relating to matters connected with the sup- 
ply of stores, clothing and other equipment; — 

(a) if the total value involved does not exceed Rs. 10 , 000 ; by the Head of 

Department with the approval of the Administrator; and 

(b) if such value exceeds Rs, 10.000; by the Secretary to the Government 

in the appropriate department with the approval of the Administra- 
tor, 



738 THE gazette of India : April 28, 1966 /vaisakha s, lflss [Pxkt h— 


6. Contracts and other instruments relating to the Public Works Department, 
by the Principal Engineer and Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineers. 
Assistant Executive Engineers and Assistant Engineers. 


7. Instruments whereby property is mortgaged to Government as security for 

loans: 


(a) Relating to industrial loans — - 

(1) if the loan does not exceed Rs. 2,000; by the Head of Department with 
the approval of the Administrator. 

(il) if such value exceeds Rs. 2,000; by the Secretary to the Government 
in the appropriate department with the approval of the Administra- 
tor. 

(b) Relating to rehabilitation loans — 

(i). if the loan does not exceed Rs. 2,000; by the Director of Rehabilitation 
ivith the approval of the Administrator. 

(ii) if the loan exceeds of Rs. 2,000; by the Secretary to the Government 
Rehabilitation Department with the approval of the Administrator. 


(c) Relating to Agriculture loans — 

(i) if the loan does not exceed Rs, 2,001); by the Director of Agriculture 
or District Magistrate and Collector with the approval of the Ad- 
ministrator. 

(il) if such loan exceeds Hs. 2,000; by the Secretary to the Government in 
the Agriculture Department with the approval of the Administra- 
tor; and 

(d) Relating to housing and other loans; by the Secretary to the Govern- 

ment in the appropriate department with the approval of the Ad- 
ministrator. 


8. Contracts for the supply of articles for use m jails or the sale of articles 
manufactured in jails, if the total value does not exceed Rs. 10,000; by the Sup- 
erintendent of Jail, with the approval of the Administrator. 

9. (i) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with leases of 

houses, buildings, premises, provided that the monthly rent reserved 
does not exceed Rs. 500; by the Secretary to the Government in the 
appropriate department with the approval of the Administrator, 

(li) contracts and other instruments in matters connected with leases of 
houses, building, premises; by the Executive Engineers with the 
approval of the Administrator when such contracts etc., relate to 
Public Works Department. 

10. Contracts and other Instruments in connection with matters relating to the 
supply, storage, carriage of essential commodities or other goods; 

(a) in the case of transactions of the Food and Civil Supplies Department 

upto the monetary limit of Rs. 50,000; by the District Magistrate and 
Collector and beyond Rs. 50,000; by the Secretary of the Food and 
Civil Supplies Department with the approval of the Administrator. 

(b) in other cases; by the Secretary to the Government in the appropriate 

department with the approval of the Administrator. 

11. Contracts and other instruments relating to training in various courses and 
educational stipends;by the Secretary of the Department concerned with the 

approval of the Administrator. 


12. Contracts and other Instruments not specified in any of the Items mention- 
ed above and connected with anv department or office under the control and 
f allin c within his jurisdiction as head of the Government of Tripura; by the 
Administrator. 



73S> 


Sk. 3<i)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


XL. IN THE CASE OF THE SUPREME COURT: 

1. Contracts and other instruments relating to advances granted to Court Ser- 
vants for the purchase of motor cars, motor cycles, cycles or houses or for building 
houses or for medical attendance and treatment or for festival or for floods etc. or 
advances of pay and travelling allowance on transfer and tour or advances ' in 
respect of Travel Concession Scheme during regular leave; by the Registrar and 
Deputy Registrar (Administration) in the case of instruments executed by the 
Registrar for any of the purposes mentioned above. 

2, All miscellaneous contracts and instruments relating to any matters other 
than those specified in item 1; by the Registrar. 

XLI. Notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, any contract or assur- 
ance of property relating to any matter whatsoever may be executed by the 
Secretary or the Special Secretary or the Additional Secretary or a Joint Secretary 
or a Director or where there is no Additional Secretary or a Joint Secretary, or a 
Director, a Deputy Secretary to the Central Government in the appropriate Minis- 
try or Department and in the case of the Committee on Plan Project, by the 
Secretary, Committee Plan Project and in the case of the Secretariat of either 
House of Parliament, by the Secretary or Joint Secretary of that House, and in the 
case of the Union Public Service Commission, by the Secretary or Joint Secretary 
of the Commission and in the case of the Presidents’ Secretariat, by the Secretary 
to the President or Under Secretary, President's Secretariat and in the case of the 
Prime Ministers’ Secretariat, by the Secretary or the Joint Secretary to the Prime 
Minister or the Private Secretary ( Administration ) or the Additional Private Secre- 
tary, (Administration) to the Prime Minister and in the case of the Election Com- 
mission, by the Secretary, Election Commission, and in the case of the Central 
Vigilance Commission; by the Secretary, Central Vigilance Commission. 

XLII. Where any business of any department is, by virtue of reorganisation or 
otherwise, transferred to any other department, whether existing or new, references 
In this notification to the department from which such business is transferred, 
shah, in relation to such business, be construed as references to the department 
to which It has been transferred. 

Explanation .— In this paragraph "department” means any Ministry, Department, 
Secretariat or Office of the Government of India. 


[No. F. 17(l)/64-J.J 
G. H. RAJADHYAKSHA, Addl. Secy,. 


(Department of Company Affairs) 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 7th April 1966 

G.S.R. #86. — In notification No, G.S.R. 421, dated the 18th March, 1966 of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Law (Department of Company Affairs), 
appearing at pages 209-213 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary Part II, Sec* 
tlon 3, sub-section (i) dated the 18th March, 1960, In Form No. 7H — 

(i) for “No. in wards” read “No. in words”; 

(il) for ""CONSIDERATION (in words)” read “f CONSIDERATION (In 

words)”; 

(iii) for “Transferee(s) name(s) in full preferably typerwrittenorinbjock- 

capitals)” read. “Transferee(s) name(s) in full (preferably typewrit- 
ten or in block capitals.)”; 

(iv) for “before the lnstwrument is lodged” read “before the Instrument Is 

lodged”; 

(v) for "*3, Signature by thumb impressions,” read “*3. Signature or 

thumb impressions”. 


[No. F. 12/19 /64-PR.] 
M. K. BANERJEE, Under Secy. 



740 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 23. 196S/VAISAK.HA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 11th April I960 

G.8.R. 587. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 84 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890) and in supersession of the rules published with the 
Notification of the late Railway Department (Railway Board) No. 1926-T, dated 
the 19th March, 1930, the Central Government hereby makes the following rules 
namely: — “ 

1. Short title.— These rules may be called the Railway (Notices of and Inquiries 
into Accidents) Rules, 1986, 


Notices 

2. Particulars to be given in the notices— The notices mentioned in section 83 
of the Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890), referred to as “the Act”, shall con- 
tain the following particulars, namely:— 

(i) kilometrage, or station or both, at which the accident occurred; 

Cii ) time and date of the accident; 

(iil) number and description of the train or trains; 

(iv) nature of the accident; 

(v) number of people killed or injured, as far as is known; 

(vi) cause of the accident, as far as is known; 

(vii) probable detention to traffic, 


3. Responsibility for sending notices — to whom to be sent and mode thereof. — 

When any accident such as is described in section 83 of the Act occurs in the course 
of working a railway, the station master nearest to the place at which the accident 
has occurred, or, where there is no station master, the railway servant in charge 
of the section of the railway on which the accident has occurred, or, any other 
station master in charge of a section of a railway to whom the report of the 
accident is made, shall give notice of the accident by telegraph to the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety, the District Magistrate and the District Superin- 
tendent of Police of the district in which the accident has occurred or such other 
Magistrate or police officer as may be appointed in this behalf by the State 
Government concerned and by telegraph, telephone or through special messenger 
or such other quick means as may be available, to the Superintendent of Railway 
Police and to the officer-in-charge of the police station within the local limits 
of which it has occurred. 

Explanation - — For the purpose of this rule accidents of a description usually 
attended with loss of human life are meant to include all accidents to passenger 
trains like collisions, derailments, train-wrecking, or attempted train-wrecking, 
cases of running over obstructions placed on the line, of passengers falling put or 
trains or of fires in trains, In which no loss of life or grievous hurt as defined In 
the Indian Penal Code, or serious damage to railway property of the value exceed- 
ing Rs. 50,000 has actually occurred but which by the nature of the accident 
might reasonably have been expected to occur; and also cases of landslides, or of 
breaches by rain or flood, which cause the interruption of any important through 
line of communication for atleast 24 hours. 


4, Mode of sending notices to the State Government. — The notice of accidents 
required by section 83 of the Act to be sent without unnecessary delay by the 
railway administration to the State Government shall be sent— 

(a) by telegram in the case of — 

(i) accidents deemed under the Explanation to rule 7 to be serious by 

reason of loss of human life; 

(ii) accidents by reason of which the permanent way is likely to be 
blocked for more than twenty-four hours; and 

<ili) train-wrecking or attempted train- wrecking; and 

<b) by letter In all other cases. 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


741 


Duties of railway servants 

5. Railway servants to report accidents. — Every railway servant shall report, 
with as little delay as possible, every accident occurring in the course of ■working 
the ■ railway which may come to his notice. Such report shall be made to the 
nearest station master, or, where there is no station master, to the railway servant 
in charge of the section of the railway on which the accident has occurred. 

ti. Station master or railway servant 'In charge of the section to report acci- 
dents. — The station master, or the railway servant in charge of the section, shall 
report the accident in accordance with the rules laid down by the railway admin- 
istration concerned for the reporting of accidents. 


Duties of Divisional Superintendents and District Traffic Superintendents. 

7. Railway administration to report serious accidents, — -Whenever a serious 
accident occurs, the railway administration concerned shall, as soon after the 
accident as possible, by telegraph supply to the Press such particulars, as are 
mentioned in rul" 2 and as are till then available, supplementary telegrams, if 
necessary, being despatched immediately further information is available. A copy 
shall be sent simultaneously by “Express” telegram to the Railway Board, the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety of the circle concerned and the Com- 
missioner of Railway Safety. In stating the cause of the accident the railway 
administration shall avoid making any statement the correctness of which may 
subsequently be questioned. 

Explanation .— For the purpose of this rule — ■ 

(i) every accident to a train (whether carrying passengers or not) which 

is attended with loss of human life or with grievous hurt as defined 
in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious damage to railway property 
of the value exceeding Rs. 50,000, and every accident, such as a land- 
slide, breach by rain or flood or derailment which causes the inter- 
ruption of any important through line of communication for at least 
twenty-four hours, shall be deemed to be a serious accident; and 

(ii) cases of trespassers run over and injured or killed through their own 

carelessness or of passengers injured or killed through their own 
carelessness shall not be deemed to be serious accidents, 


Duties of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety [ Inspector of Railways 
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act], 


8, Enquiry into a service accident by the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety. — (1) (a) Whenever the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
receives notice under section 83 of the Act' of the occurrence of an accident which 
he considers of a sufficiently serious nature to justify such a course he shall, as 
soon as may be, notify the Railway Board and tne Head of the Railway Adminis- 
tration concerned of his intention to hold an inquiry and shall, at the same time, 
fix and communicate the date, time and place for the inquiry. He shall also issue 
a Press note in this behalf inviting the public to tender evidence at the Inquiry 
or send information relating to the accident to his office address. 


(b) While notifying his intention to hpld an inquiry as aforesaid, the Addi- 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall also advise the District Magistrate’ 
and the Superintendent of Police of the district concerned, 

(2) For the purpose of this rule, every accident to a train carrying passengers 
which i 3 attended with loss of human life, dr grievous hurt as defined in the Indian 
Penal Code to a person or persons in the tlrain or with serious damage to railway 
property of the value exceeding Rs, 50,00(D and any other accident which in the 
opinion of the Commissioner of Railway S&ifety or the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety requires the holding of fin inquiry shall be deemed to be as 
accident of such a serious nature as to require the holding of an inquiry. 


(3) Where the Commissioner of Railwjay Safety considers the holding of an 
inquiry into an accident necessary, he may either hold the inquiry himself or 
direct the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to do so. 

Explanation . — The Inquiry by the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
shall be obligatory only in those cases where the passengers killed or grievously 
hurt were travelling in the train. If a nerson travelling on the foot-board or 
roof of a passenger train is killed or grievously hurt or if a person is run over 
at a level crossing or elsewhere on the railway track, an inquiry by the Addi- 
tional Commissioner of. Railway Safety shell not be obligatory. Similarly, if in 



742 THE GAZtETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , I966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


a collision between a road vehicle and a passenger train at a level-crossing no 
passenger in the train is killed or grievously hurt the Additional Coni nissioner of 
Railway Safety shall not be obliged to hold an inquiry. For the purpose of this 
rule, workmen's trains or ballast trains carrying workmen shall also be treated 
as passenger trains and in the event of a workman getting killed or grievously 
hurt as a result of an accident to the train, an inquiry by the Additional Com- 
missioner of Railway Safety shall be obligatory. 


(4) When an accident requiring the holding of an inquiry occurs at a station 
where the jurisdictions of two or mdre Additional Commissioners of Railway 
Safety meet, the duty of complying with this rule shall devolve on the Addi- 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety within whose jurisdiction the railway 
working such station lies. 

15) If, for any reason, the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety is un- 
able to hold an inquiry at an early date after the occurrence of such an accident, 
the Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall, on request by the Addi- 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety, forward to him, with as little delay as 
possible, the proceedings of the joint inquiry which has been made under rule 19. 
The Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall advise the Railway Board of 
the reason why an inquiry has not been held by himself. If the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety, after examination of the joint inquiry proceed- 
ings, considers that an inquiry should be held by himself, he shall, as soon as 
possible, notify the Railway Board and the Head of the Railway Administration 
concerned, of his intention to hold an inquiry and he shall at the same time fix 
and communicate the date, time and place for the inquiry. 


(8) (a) Where, having regard to the nature of the accident, the Central Gov- 
ernment has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to inquire into the accident under 
the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952), or has appointed any other 
authority to inquire into it and 1 for that purpose has made all or any of the provi- 
sions of the said Act applicable to that authority, the Additional Commissioner 
of Railway Safety to whom notice of the accident has been given shall not hold 
his inquiry and where he has already commenced his inquiry he shall not proceed 
further with it, and shall hand over the evidence, records or other documents in 
his possession relating to the inquiry to such authority as may be specified by 
the Central Government in this behalf. 


(b) If, as a result of the police investigation a regular case is lodged in a 
criminal court bv the police, the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety shall 
discontinue his inquiry. 


9. Additional Commissioner of Rail 
narrative report. — Where the Additions 
held an inquiry in respect of any of t 
rule 8 he shall sufcmit a brief prelimin 
of Railway Safety and the Railway B[- 
f actual and shall not contain any — 


.way Safety to submit a brief preliminary 

;il Commissioner of Railway Safety has 
the accidents described in sub-rule (3) of 
lary narrative report to the Commissioner 
oard simultaneously. The report shall be 
to persons implicated. 


reference 


10. Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to submit a report.— Whenever 

the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety has made an inquiry u l nder rule 
8, or when in pursuance of sub-rule (!>) of *' u '° 8, an inquiry is held by a ^ ” 

mittee of railway officers in accordance with the provisions of rule 19 he shall 
submit a report 'in writing to the Commissioner of Railway Safety and shall 
forward a copy of the report each to- 
(i) the Railway’ Board; 

(11) the railway administration concerned; 

(hi) in the case of a railway under the control of a State Government or 
Local Administration, to s]uch Government or administration also, 
(iv) if a magisterial inquiry is being made, to the Magistrate making the 
inquiry; and 

Cvl if Ihc Additional Commissioiiier of Railway Safety 

dent was caused by sabotage or train wrecking, to the Director Intel- 
ligence Bureau, Ministry li Home Affairs, Government of India. 

11. Publication of reports.— Recommendations In regard to ^ e ,P u ]^g Ca Qgn tr ”i 
reports shall be made by the Commissioner of Railway Safety to the Lem 

Government. 



Sec. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAI.SAKHA 3, 1888 y 43 


12. Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety to assist the Magistrate or the 
Commission of Inquiry etc. In clarifying technical matters. — The Additional Com- 
missioner of Railway Safety shall, as far as possible, assist any Magistrate making 
a judicial inquiry or an inquiry under rule 23 or a Commission of Inquiry 
appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952), or any other 
authority appointed by the Central Government to which all or any of the provi- 
sions of the said Act have been made applicable, whenever he may be called upon 
to do so for the purpose of clarification of any technical matters. 

13. Power® of the Additional Commissioner of Rallwav Safety. — Nothing in 
these rules shall, except to the extent provided in sub-rule (6) of rule 8, be deem- 
ed to limit or otherwise affect the exercise of any of the powers conferred on 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety (Inspector) by section 5 of the Act. 

Duties of the Head of the Railway Administration and of the Head of the 

Department concerned 

14. Facility for reaching the site of accident. — Whenever any accident has 
occurred in the course of working a railway, the Head of the Railway Administra- 
tion concerned shall give all reasonable aid to the District Magistrate or the 
Magistrate appointed or deputed under rule 23, to the Commission of Inquiry 
appointed under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952), or any other 
authority to which all or any of the provisions of the said Act have been made 
applicable, and to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety, medical officers, 
the police, and others concerned to enable them to reach the scene of the acci- 
dent promptly, and shall also assist those authorities in making inquiries and In 
obtaining evidence as to the cause of the accident. 

15. Medical aid to the persons grievously hurt in accidents. — Whenever any 
accident, occurring in the course 01 working a railway, has been attended with 
grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, it shall be the duty of the Head 
of the Railway Administration concerned to afford medical aid to the sufferers, 
and to see that they are properly and carefully attended to till they are removed 
to their homes or handed over to the care of their relatives or friends. In any 
such case, or in any case in which any loss of human life or grievous hurt as 
defined in the Indian Penal Code, has occurred, the nearest available local medical 
officer shall be sent for if such medical officer is nearer at hand than the railway 
medical officer. 


16. Arranging attendance of railway servants at the place of Inquiry — When 
an inquiry under rule 8 or rule 23 or a judicial inquiry is being made, the Head 
of the Railway Administration concerned shall arrange for the attendance, as long 
as may be .necessary, at the place of inquiry, of all railway servants whose evid- 
ence is likely to be required at such inquiry; and if the inquiry is to be held by 
the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety under rule 8, the Head of the 
Railway Administration concerned shall cause notice of the date, hour and place 
at which the inquiry will begin to be given to the officers mentioned in clauses 
(a) and (c> of sub-rule (1) of rule 20. He shall also arrange for the attendance 
of the divisional or district officers at the inquiry. 


17- Action to he taken by Head of the Railway Administration on receipt of 
the report.— Whenever the Head of the Railway Administration concerned 
receives a copy of the report of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
under rule 10, he shall at once acknowledge its receipt. If he differs from the 
views expressed in the report, he shall at the same time submit his remarks 
thereon, or, If he ts not able to do so immediately, he shall, in his acknowledge- 
ment of the report, inform the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety of 
his intention to submit his remarks later. If the Head of the Railway Adminis- 
tration concerned considers the prosecution of any person or persons desirable, he 
shall Immediately forward a copy of the report together with a statement of such 
persons to the District Magistrate of the district in which the accident occurred, 
or to such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this behalf and 
to the concerned police authorities. On receipt of the findings of the Additional 
Commissioner of Railway Safety, the police authorities shall, as soon as possible, 
intimate the Head of the Railway Administration concerned about their decision 
regarding launching of any prosecution. 


18. Head oi the Railway Administration to offer remarks on the suggestion^ 
made in the report. — Whenever the report of the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety points to the necessity for or suggests a change in any of the 
rules or in the system of working of the railway, the Head of the Railway Admin- 
istration concerned shall, when acknowledging the report, intimate the action 



744 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966/VAISAKHA 5, 1888 [P A ht II- 


which has been taken or which it is proposed to take, to prevent a recurrence of 
similar accidents or shall inform the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
of his intention to report further on the proposals contained in the report of the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Saiety. 

19. Joint Inquiry when' dispensed with.— (1) Whenever an accident, such as Is 
described in section 83 of the Act, has occurred in the course of working a rail- 
way, the Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall cause an inquiry 
to be promptly made by a committee of railway officers (to be called a “joint 
inquiry”) for the thorough investigation of the causes which led to the accident: 

Provided that such inquiry may be dispensed with— 

(a) if any inquiry is to be held by the Additional Commissioner of Rail- 

way Saiety or a Commission of Inquiry appointed under the Com- 
missions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 1952) or any other authority 
appointed by the Central Government to which all or any of the 
provisions oi the said Act have been made applicable under rule 8; or 

(b) if the accident has not been attended with loss of human life or with 

grievous hurt, as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious 
damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 50,008; or 

(c) if there is no reasonable doubt as to the cause of the accident; or 

(d) if any department of the railway administration concerned intimates 

that it accepts all responsibility in the matter. 

(2) Where such inquiry is dispensed with under any of the clauses (b), (c) 
or (d) of the proviso to sub-rule 1, it shall be the duty of the Head of the depart- 
ment of the railway administration responsible for the accident to make such 
Inquiry (to be called a “departmental Inquiry’ 1 ) as he may consider necessary 
and, if his staff or the system of working Is at fault, to adopt or suggest such 
measures as he may consider necessary for preventing a recurrence of similar 
accidents. 

20. Notice of joint inquiry— (1) Whenever a joint inquiry is to be made, tbn 
Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall cause notice of the date and 
hour at which the inquiry will commence to be given to the following officers, 
namely:— 

(a) the District Magistrate of the district in which the accident occurred, 

or such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this 
behalf, the Superintendent of the Railway Police and the District 
Superintendent of Police; 

(b) the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the section of the 

railway on which the accident occurred; and 

(c) the head of the Railway Police having jurisdiction at the place where 

the accident occurred or, if there are no Railway Police, the officer- 
in-charge of the police station having jurisdiction at such place. 

(2) The date and hour at which the inquiry will commence shall be fixed so 
as to give the officers mentioned in sub-rule (1) sufficient time to reach the place 
where the inquiry is to be held. 

21 Report of the Joint or departmental inquiry to be sent to the Head of the 
Railway Administration and action to be taken thereon.— (1) As soon as any joint 

or departmental inquiry has been completed, the President of the committee of 
railway officers or the Head of the department, as the case may be shall sent to 
the Head of the Railway Administration concerned a report which, in the case 
of all accidents of the nature described In the explanation to rule 7, shall contain— 

(a) a brief description of the accident; 

(b) a description of the locality of the accident; 

(c) a detailed statement of the evidence taken; 

(d) the conclusions arrived at together with a note of dissent, if any; 

(e) reasons for conclusions arrived at; 

(f) the nature and extent of the damage done; 

(,g) when necessary, a sketch illustrative of the accident; 

(h) the number of railway servants killed or Injured; 



fiEC. 3(i)] ■ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 745 


(i) the number of passengers killed or injured; 

(j) an appendix containing extracts of the rules violated by the staff res- 

ponsible for the accident. 


(2) The Head of the Railway Administration concerned shall forward, with 
his remarks as to the action it is intended to take in regard to the staff responsible 
for the accident or for the revision of the rules or the system of working, a copy 
of the report referred to in sub-rule (1) — 

(a) to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the section of 

the railway on which the accident occurred; 

(b) if no inquiry or investigation has been made under rule 23 or if a 

joint or departmental inquiry has been held first, to the District 
Magistrate or the officer appointed under clause (a) of sub-rule (1) 
of rule 20; and 

(c) if any judicial inquiry is being made, to the Magistrate making such 

inquiry. 

(3) The copy of the report aforesaid shall be accompanied, — 

(a) in the case referred to In clause (b) of sub-rule (2), by a statement 

of the persons involved in the accident whose prosecution the Head 
of the Railway Administration concerned considers to be desirable; 

(b) in the case referred to in clause (c) of the said sub-rule, by a copy 

of the evidence taken at the inquiry. 

22. Reports of inquiries into accidents not covered by section 83 to be for- 
warded to Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety. — A copy each of reports 
of inquiries held on accidents not of the nature specified in section 83 of the Act, 
such as averted collisions, technical accidents, or breaches of block rules, shall 
be forwarded to the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety for the section 
of the railway on which the accident occurred. 

Duties of Magistrates 

23. Magisterial Inquiry. — Whenever an accident, such as is described in section 
83 of the Act, has occurred in the course of working a railway, the District Magis- 
trate or any other Magistrate who may be appointed in this behalf by the State 
Government, may, either — 

(a) himself make an Inquiry into the causes which led to the accident; or 

(b) depute a subordinate Magistrate, who, if possible, should be a Magis- 

trate of the first class, to make such an inquiry; or 

(c) direct investigation into the causes which led to the accident, to be 

made by the police: 

Provided that where, having regard to the nature of the accident, the 
Central Government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to 
inquire into it under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 
.1952), or has appointed any other authority to inquire into it and 
for that purpose has made all or any of the provisions of the said 
Act applicable to that authority, a Magistrate or a police officer shall 
not make his inquiry or investigation under this rule and, where he 
has already commenced his inquiry or investigation, shall not proceed 
further with it; and such Magistrate or police officer shall hand over 
the evidence, records or other documents in his possession relating 
to the inquiry or investigation to such authority as may be specified 
by the Central Government in this behalf. 

24 Notice of magisterial Inquiry. — (1) Whenever it is decided to make an 
inquiry under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 23, the District Magistrate or other 
Magistrate appointed as aforesaid or the Magistrate deputed under clause (b) of 
rule 23, as the case may be, shall at once advise the Additional Commissioner of 
Railway Safety, the Head of the Railway Administration concerned and the Divi- 
sional Superintendent or the District traffic Superintendent concerned, by tele- 
graph, of the date and hour at which the Inquiry will commence so as to enable 
the railway administration to summon the requisite expert evidence. After 
sending such advice, he shall proceed to the scene of the accident and conduct 
the inquiry there. 



y 4 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pa,rt II- 


(2) District Magistrate or his representative to attend the inquiry conducted* 
by Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety.— Where no inquiry is being made 
under clause (a) or (b) of rule 23 and the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety decides to make an inquiry under rule 8, the District Magistrate shall, as 
far as possible, attend such inquiry personally or depute some other officer to 
represent him at the inquiry. 

25. Judicial inquiry.— A Magistrate, making an inquiry under rule 23, may 
summon any railway servant, and any other person whose presence he may 
think necessary, and, after taking the evidence and completing the inquiry, shall, 
if he considers there are sufficient grounds for holding a judicial inquiry, take 
the requisite steps for bringing to trial any person whom he may consider to be 
criminally liable for the accident Whenever technical points are involved, the 
Magistrate shall call for the opinion of the Additional Commissioner of Railway 
Safety or other professional persons. 

2ft. The result of magisterial Inquiry to be communicated to the Head of the 
Railway Administration. — The result of every inquiry or investigation made under 
rule 23 shall be communicated by the Magistrate who has held such inquiry or 
investigation, to the Head of the Railway Administration concerned and to the 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety. 

27. Procedure for summoning the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
and railway servants to assist tne Magistrate holding judicial inquiry. — (1) If, in 

the course of any judicial inquiry into an accident occurring in the course of 
working a railway, the Magistrate holding such inquiry desires the assistance of 
the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety or of the Head of the Railway 
Administration concerned, or the attendance of any officer of the railway to 
explain any matter relating to railway supervision, management or working, he 
shall issue a requisition to the Commissioner of Railway Safety or the Head of 
the Railway Administration concerned, as the case may he, for the attendance 
in the court, of the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety or other railway 
officer competent to explain such matter, stating at the same time the nature of 
the assistance required. In summoning railway servants, the Magistrate shall 
take care not to summon on the same day so large a number of the employees, 
especially of one class, as to cause inconvenience to the working of the railway 
In the case of very serious accidents it will generally be advisable for the Magis- 
trate to obtain reports from both the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety 
and the Head of the Railway Administration concerned in regard to the accident, 
before finally concluding the judicial inquiry. 

(2) The Magistrate conducting the judicial inquiry shall, as far as possible, 
avoid summoning the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety, if in the report 
submitted under rule 10, the opinion of the said Additional Commissioner on 
technical matters which required explanation has already been expressed. 

28 C ommunic ation of the decision of judicial inquiry to the Railway Adminis- 
tration, Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety and the State Government. — 

On the conclusion of the judicial inquiry the Magistrate shall send a copy of his 
decision to the Head of the Railway Administration concerned and to the Addi- 
tional Commissioner of Railway Safety, and shall, unless in any case he thinks 
it unnecessary to do so, report the result of the inquiry to the State Government, 


Duties of Police 

29. Police Investigation — when to be dispensed with.— (1) The Railway Police 
may make an investigation into the causes which led to any accident occurring 
in the course of working a railway and shall do so — 

(a) whenever any such accident is attended with loss of human life or with 

grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious 
damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 50,000, or 
has p rima facie been due to any criminal act or omission; or 

(b) whenever the District Magistrate or the Magistrate appointed under 

rule 23 has given a direction under clause (c) of that rule: 

Provided that no such investigation shall be made when an Inquiry has 
been commenced or ordered under clause (a) or clause (b) of rule 23: 



Slit;. 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23. 19C6/VAI&AKHA S, 1888 747 


Provided further that where, having regard to the nature of the accident, 
the Central Government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to 
inquire into it under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 (60 of 
1952), or has appointed any other authority to inquire into it and 
for that purpose has made all or any of the provisions of the said 
Act applicable to that authority, the Railway Police shall not make 
an investigation under this rule, and, where they have already com- 
menced their investigation shall not proceed further with it; and 
shall hand over the records or other documents in their possession 
relating to the investigation to such authority, as may be specified 
by the Central Government in this behalf. 

(2) Railway Police to report every accident involving loss of life or grievous 
hart or serious damage to railway property.— The Railway Police shall report, 
with as little delay as possible to the nearest station master or, where there is no 
station master, to the railway servant in charge of the section of the railway on 
which the accident has occurred, every accident which may come to their notice 
occurring in the course of working a railway attended with loss of human life, or 
with grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code, or with serious damage 
to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 50,000, or which has prima facie 
been due to any criminal act or omission. 

30. Status of police officer investigating the accident. — (l) Whenever an in- 
vestigation is to be made by the Railway Police — 

(a) in a case in which an accident is attended with loss of human life or 

with grievous hurt as defined in the Indian Penal Code or with 
serious damage to railway property of the value exceeding Rs. 60 000- 
or 

(b) in pursuance of a direction given under clause (c) of rule 23,— 

the investigation shall be conducted by head of the Railway Police of the 
area in which the accident has occurred, or if that officer is unable 
to conduct the investigation himself, by an officer to be deputed 
by him. 

(2) The officer deputed under sub-rule (1) shall ordinarily be the senior officer 
available, and shall whenever possible be a Gazetted Officer, and shall in no case 
be of rank lower than that of an Inspector: 

Provided that tire investigation may be carried out by an officer-in-charge of 
a police station — 

(i) in a case such as is referred to in clause (a) of sub-rule (1), if no loss 
of life or grievous hurt has been caused to more persons than one or 
no damage to railway property of value exceeding Rs. 60,000, has 
been caused or there is no reason to suspect that any servant of the 
railway has been guilty of neglect of any rule relating to the working 
of the railway; or 

(II) In the case referred to in clause (b) of sub-rule (1), if the District 
Magistrate so directs. 

31. Notice of police investigation. — The Officer who is to conduct an investiga- 
tion in pursuance of rule 30 shall at once advise the Head of the Railway Admin- 
istration concerned and the Divisional Superintendent or District Traffic Superin- 
tendent by telegraph of the date and hour at which the investigation will com- 
mence so that, if possible, the presence of a railway official may be arranged for 
to watch the proceedings and to aid the officer making the investigation. After 
sending such advice, he shall proceed without delay to the scene of the accident 
and conduct the investigation there. The absence of a railway official shall not, 
however, bo allowed to delay the investigation which shall be conducted as soon 
as possible after the accident has taken place. 

32. Assistance by the District police. — (1) In every case to which rule 30 
applies, immediate information shall be given by tbe Railway Police of the area 
to the District Police, who, if so required, shall afford all necessary assistance and 
shall, if occasion arises, carry the investigation beyond the limits of the railway 
premises But the Railway Police of the area shall primarily be responsible for 
carrying on the investigation within such limits. 



748 THE GAZETTE OF INDU : APRIL 23, 1966/VAI5AKHA 3 , 1888 [P a rt II- 
(2) Subject to the provisions contained in these rules the further ^ .. 

M^/poVe" ' h,i C0 " ClUSl “ ° f 0,6 s^St%rS'Z 

pgS sskssm s’^suvss stmk&ks t s 

officer appointed in this behalf U the State Government? to the Weld of the t 
way Administration concerned or other officer annointeH hv -LI * 
Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety PP ° l ed by h,m ’ and to the 


34. District Police to discharge duties of Railway Police. — Where there are no 
Railway Police in the area, the duties imposed by rules 29, 30 and 31, sub-rule 
(2) of rule 32, and rule 33 on the Railway Police of the area, or on the head of 
such Railway Police, shall be discharged by the District Police or by the District 
Superintendent of Police, as the case may be. 

35. District Superintendent of Police or hie representative to attend the inquiry 
conducted by Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety w— Where an inquiry is 
being held by the Additional Commissioner of Railway Safety under rule 8 , the 
District Superintendent of Police shall, as far as possible, attend such inquiry 
personally or depute some other officer to represent him at such inquiry. 

[No. 59-TTV/42/1,] 

New Delhi, the 12 th April 1966 

G.S.R. 588. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890), the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing rules further to amend the Railways Red Tariff Rules, 1960, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Railways Red Tariff (Second Amendment) 
Rules, 1966. 

2. In the Railways Red Tariff Rules, I960— 

(1) in Table I, at the end of Chapter I, 

(i) under ‘‘Class 3, Nitro compounds, Division 1,” 

(a) before the item “Ballistite” in column 1 and the entries relating 
thereto, the following item and entries shall be inserted, namely:— 


I 

2 

3 4 5 678 

“Ajax -G’ 

IJ 5 -B - 

■n 

1 

f 

(b) after the item “Unisax” in column 1 and the entries relating there- 


to, the following item and entries shall be inserted, namely: — 

I 

2 

3 4 5 678 

“Viking C G’ 

I55-B — 

— AQ 


(ii) under “Division 2 of Class 6 , Ammunition”, against the entry ‘‘Deto- 
nating Fuze” in Column 1, the following shall be inserted in 
column 7 thereof, namely: — • 

“may be permitted for carriage in the rear brake van of passenger, mix- 
ed or parcel train subject to the following conditions: — 

(a) one reel containing Detonating Fuze not exceeding 250 metres 

in length is packed in a wooden case lined with corrugated 
paper board; 

(b) not more than one package of Detonating Fuze packed as above 

is carried by any one train; and 

(c) no detonators are carried in the same carriage.”; 



Sic. 5(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25. 1960/VAISAKHA 5, 1888 


749 


(2) In Chapter VI, for rules 607 3 and 607'4, the following shall be substi- 

tuted, namely:— 

"807,3. Carboys, containing acids and other corrosives. — (1) Except as 
otherwise provided in column 3 of Table VI, Carboys, containing 
acids and other corrosives, must be packed securely in iron, wooden 
or wickerwork crates, 

There must be a minimum thickness of 2 - 54 cm, of straw packing between 
the carboy and the crate. 

The straw packing in the carboy crate, when handed aver to the Railway 
Administration, must be sufficiently damp to prevent Are. 

(2) All carboys shall be closed liquldtight and provided with a well- 
fitting stopper which must be well luted. 

(3) The necks of the carboys shall be exposed. 

807 4 Inside packing. — Except as otherwise provided in column 3 of Table 
VI, the inside packing of cases or crates shall not contain any solid 
matter or hard substance,’’ 


[No. 05-TGII/21/3.] 

P. C. MATHEW, Secy., 

Railway Board. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 7th April 1960 

G.S.R. 589. — In exercise at the powers conferred by he proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to further 
amend the Indian Foreign Service (Pay, leave, compensatory allowances and other 
conditions of service) Rules, 1981, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Foreign Service (Pay, leave, compensa- 
tory allowances and other conditions of service) Amendment Rules, 1960. 

2. In the Indian Foreign Service (Pay, leave, compensatory allowances and 
other conditions of service) Rules, 1961: — 

(a) in sub-rule (1) of rule 4 — 

(1) Item 5 shall be omitted and shall be deemed to have been omitted with 
effect from the 1st Day of April, 1905; 

(ii) for items 4, 6 and 7, the following items shall be substituted and 

shall be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st 
day of September, 1965, namely: — 

"4. Grade IV Rs. 2500-125/2-2750 

5. Grade II Rs. 3000 

6. Grade I Rs. 3500". 

(iii) In the Note for the words and figures "Grade III and IV consist" the 

words and figures “Grade IV consists” shall be substituted and shall 
be deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st day 
of April, 1985. 

(b) in Appendix II, for items 1, 2 and 3, the following items and the Notes 

shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted 
with effect from the 1st day of September, 1965, namely:— 

“1. Secretary to the Government of India Rs. 3500 

2. Additional Secretary to the Government of India Rs. 3000 

3. Joint Secretary to the Government of India Rs. 2500-125/2-2730 

Note (1) . — The first increment in the scale of pay of Rs. 2500-125/2-2750 on 
completion of two years service shall not be automatic but shall be 
granted only to officers of proved efficiency after a positive assess- 
ment has been made in each case of the performance of the officer. 



750 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2S, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Pa*t 11- 


Note (2). — An officer who was holding on 1st September, 1965, a post of 
Joint Secretary to the Government of India or Grade IV post In the 
Indian Foreign Service or an equivalent post shall be allowed the 
first increment in the revised scale of Rs. 2500-125/2-2750, raising his 
pay to Rs. 2625 on 1st September, 1966 or on completion, of two years 
service in the posts mentioned above, whichever is later, subject to 
the assessment in Note (1) above". 


[No. 25/GA/66/Q(GA) 791/15/65.] 
A. MADHAVAN, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 11th April 1066 

G.S.R. 590. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 26 of the Khadi 
and Village Industries Commission Act 1956 (61 of 1956), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Khadi and Village Indus- 
tries Commission Rules, 1957, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Khadi and Village Industries Commission 
(Amendment) Rules, 1966. 

2. In the Khadi and Village Industries Commission Rules, 1957, after Chapter 
V, the following Chapter shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Chapter VA . — Recovery of Monies due to the Commission. 

25A. Notice of proposal for recovery of monies due as arrears of land 
revenue . — (1) Where any sum is payable to the Commission under any agreement, 
express or implied, or otherwise howsoever, the Commission may cause a notice 
to bo served on the person liable to pay the sum directing him to pay the sum 
stated therein, 


(2) Where the person on whom a notice is served under sub-rule (1) disputes 
his liability to pay the sum stated in the notice, he may, within thirty days of the 
receipt of the notice, make a representation to that effect to the Commission. 


(3) If, within the period referred to in sub-rule (2), the person on whom a 
notice Is served under sub-rule (1) neither pays the sum stated in the notice nor 
make a representation to the Commission under sub-rule (2), the Commission may 
request the Collector within whose jurisdiction its office Is situated to take such 
action as may be necessary for recovering the sum as arrears of land revenue. 


(4) If in the course of proceedings taken against a person for recovery of any 
sum requested to be recovered under sub-rule (3), such person denies his liability 
to pay the sum or any part thereof, the authority before whom such proceedings 
are pending shall forthwith send a notice of such denial to the Commission, 


25B Request for constitution of a Tribunal under section 19B and for reference 
of question as to denial of liability to such Tribunal . — (1) On receipt of a repre- 
sentation under sub-rule (2). or a notice under sub-nTe (4), of rule 25A, the 
Commission shall forward a copy of such representation or, as the case may be of 
the notice to the Central Government with a request that a Tribunal may be 
constituted for determining the question as to denial of liability to pay to the 
Commission made in such representation or referred to in such notice. 


(2) On receipt of a request under sub-rule (1), the Central Government may 
constitute a Tribunal in accordance with the provisions of section 1913 of the Act 
and refer the question mentioned in such request to the Tribunal for decision, 

(31 The Tribunal so constituted shall, after making such inquiry a® It may deem 
fit and after giving to the person denying liability and the Commission a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard and after considering such evidence as may be produced 
by such person and the Commission, decide the question whether, and if so, what 
sum is payable by such person to the Commission. 



Sec.. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKJIA 3, 1868 


751 


(4) A copy of the decision of the Tribunal shall, — 

(a) where It is in respect of a representation made under sub-rule (2) of 

rule 25A, be forwarded to the Commission and If the decision declares 
any sum as payable to the Commission, the Commission may take 
actloq for having the sum recovered as an arrear of land revenue; 

(b) where it is in respect of denial of liability referred to in a notice under 

sub-rule (4) of rule 25A. be forwarded to the authority by whom such 
notice was issued, for disposal of the proceedings concerned in accord- 
ance with such decision. 

[No. F. 4/4/61-KVE(P).] 
P. S1TARAMAN, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 12 th April 1966 

G.S.R. 591.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 22 of the Textiles 
Committee Act, 1963 (41 of 1963), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules to amend the Textiles Committee Rules, 1965, the same having been 
previously published as required by sub-section (1) of the said section, namely: — 

1, These rules may be called the Textiles Committee (Second Amendment) 

Rules, 1966. 

2. In rule 28 of the Textiles Committee Rules, 1965, for the words “The 

Solicitor General of India or any person nominated by him to act 
on his behalf”,* the words "a Solicitor approved by the Committee” 
shall be substituted. 


[No. 25(12)-Tex(A)/65.] 
T. S. KUNCHITHAFATHAM, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 
(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 14 th April 1966 

G.8JR. 592. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following Order to amend the Petroleum Products (Supply and Distribution) 
Order, 1966, namely: — 

1. This Order may be called the Petroleum Products (Supply and Distribution) 
Amendment Order, 1966. 

2. In the Petroleum Products (Supply and Distribution) Order, 1960, in sub- 
paragraph (2) of paragraph 3, for the Second proviso, the following proviso shall 
be substituted, namely: — 

“Provided further that the State Government may, within the local limits 
of the State and — 

(a) in such cases as the Central Government may by general or special 

order specify, without the previous approval of the Central Govern- 
ment; and 

(b) in all other cases, with the previous approval of the Central Govern- 

ment, at any time issue such directions to the offlcer-ln-charge of 
a depot or a main port insta’lation as may be necessarv for the 
equitable distribution of such petroleum product or products.” 


[No. F. 31(2)/66-IOC.] 
P, P. GUPTA, Under Secy, 



752 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23 , 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 [Pa,RT II- 


MLNISTRY OF MINES & METALS 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1960 

G.SjR. 593, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Coal Controller’s Organisation (Class I Posts) Recruitment Rules, 1904, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Coal Controller’s Organisation (Class I 
Posts) Recruitment (Amendment) Rules, 1966. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of the publication In the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In the Schedule to the Coal Controller’s Organisation (Class I Posts) Recruit- 
ment Rules, 1964, in the entries against item 6 relating to the post cf Joint Deputy 
Coal Controller (Coordination), In column 11, for the words and brackets “Assistant 
Coal Controller; Assistant Coal Controller (Statistics) and” the words “Assistant 
Coal Controller or” shall be substituted. 

[No. C4-40(49) /65.] 
G. J. MISRA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND AVIATION 
(Department of Transport Shipping and Tourism) 

(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 15 th April 1966 

G.SR. 594. — In pursuance of Section 11 read with sub-section 1 of section 3 
of the Major Port Trusts Act, 1963 (38 of 1963), the names of the following persons 
who have been appointed as Trustees for the Port of Cochin, are hereby publish- 
ed for general information; — 

1. Shri G. S. Dhara Singh \ _ 

2. Shri A. A. Kochunny / Representatives of labour. 

[No. 0-PG(3)/66.] 
R. RANGARAJAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD, AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 

(Department of Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 12 th April 1966 

G.S.R. 595. — In exercise o)f the powers conferred by the proviso to article 209 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules further to 
amend the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Recruitment to Technical Non- 
gazetted CJass II and III Posts) Rules, 1959, namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Recruit- 
ment to Technical Non-gazetted Class II and III Posts) Amendment Rules, I960. 

2. In the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Recruitment to Technical Non- 
gazetted Class II and' III Posts) Rules, 1959. 

(i) after rule 5, the following rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“6- Power to relax— Where the Central Government is of opinion that it 
is necessary or expedient so to do, It may, for reasons to be record- 
ed In writing, by order relax any of the provisions of these rules 
with respect to any class or category of persons /posts; 

Provided that the Union Public Service Commission shall be consulted In 
respect of relaxation for appointment to Class II posts.” 



Sec. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 753 


(ii) In the Schedule, 

(a) under the heading “Class II Non-Gazetted Posts” after item 10 and 
the entries relating thereto, the following items and entries shall be 
Inserted, namely: — 



754 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1%6/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


123456 7 


‘it. Senior 
Technical 
Assistant 
(Livestock) 


4 General Rs. 325-15- 

Selection Below 35 

Essential : — 

Central 475-EB- 

years. 

(i) A degree In 

Scrvlcc 20-575 

(Relax- 

Animal Husban- 

Class 11; 

able for 

dry or Veteri- 

Non-Gazet- 

Govt. 

nary Science from 

ted Non- 

servants). 

a recognised 

Mlnisterlal. 


University or 

equivalent. 

(ii) About 2 years 
experience of 

research /livestock 
development work. 

(Qualifications 
relaxable at Comm- 
ission’s dis- 

cretion in case of 
candidates other- 
wise well qualified). 


12. Senior One 
Drafts 
man 

(Slaughter 

House). 


General Rs. 450-25 

Central 575. 

service 
ClasBlIi 
Non- 
Gazettcd ; 

Non. 

Ministerial 


Selection 35 years 
and below 
(Relaxable 
for Govt, 
servants). 


Essentia l : — 

(i) Diploma in 

Draftsmanship of 
a recognised 

University/ 
Institute, or 
equivalent. 

(11) Adequate ex- 
perience in 

the preparation 
of designs, 
specifications, 
estimates, details, 
of equipment and 
machinery with 
technical notes 
preferably In a 
Government or 
S emi- Governmcn t 
Department. 


(Qualifications 
relaxable at Com- 
mission’s dis- 
cretion in case 
of candidates 
otherwise well 
qualified). 



Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23. 1966/VAISARHA 3, 1888 


io 


ii 


12 


13 


No. 


Two years 50% promo- 

Promotion : 

Class II 

Ab required 

tion. 50% 
direct recruit- 
ment. 

Technical 
Assistant 
(Livestock) 
with 3 years’ 
service in the 
grade after 
completion 
of probation. 

D.P.C 

under the rules. 


No. 


2 years. Promotion 

Promotion \ 

Clan b 11 

Ab required 

failing which 


D.P.C. 

under the 

by transfer on 

Dairy Drafts- 


rules. ” 

deputation and 

man with four 



failing both 

years service in 



by direct re- 

the grade. 



cruitment. 

Transfer on 




Deputation : 




Suitable persons 
in C.P.W.D. 

(Period of deputation : 
3 years). 


(b) under the heading “Class III Non-Gazetted Posts” below the exist- 
ing entry in column 10 against the post of Junior Accountant 
(Fertiliser), the following note shall be inserted, namely: — 


“Note. — T he persons recruited prior to the date of promulgation of 
these rules shall be eligible for confirmation in the grade In order 
of their seniority in tne grade." 


[No. 3-42/65-E.IV.] 
J. N. KAUL, Under Secy. 



^56 the gazette of emdia April 28, 1966/vaisakha s, isaa [Pa«t ii- 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. & T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 1th April 1966 

G.SJt. 596. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the 

following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Fourth Amendment) 
Rules, 1966. 

(2:) They shall come into force on the 1st day of May, 1966. 

2. In rule 5 of the Indian Post Office Rules, ] 933, after the heading "Sample 
Packets” and entries thereunder, the following heading and the entries thereunder 
shall be inserted, namely: — 


"Small Packets 

For a weight not exceeding fifty grams. Twenty paise 

For every additional fifty grams or fraction thereof. Twenty paise: 


Provided that the charge for a 
eighty paise”. 


Small Packet shall In no case be less than 

[No. 1-7/66-R.] 


New Delhi, the 18th April 1966 

GSR 597 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Indian 
Post 'Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely: — 


1. (1) These rules may be called the Indian Post Office (Sixth Amendment) 
Rules, 1966. 


(2) They shall come into force on the 1st day of May, 1906. 
2. In the Post Office Rules, 1933, — 


(1) in rule 50- A, — 

(i) in sub-rule (1) — 

(a) for the words “Thirty Five Naye Paise”, the words “Fifty Paise’’ shall 

be substituted; 

(b) in the second proviso, for the words “Rupees Seven and Seventy 

Paise", the words “Rupees Fifteen” shall be substituted; 

(ii) in the proviso to sub-rule (2), for the words “Rupees Seven and Seventy 

Paise”, the words "Rupees Fifteen” shall be substituted; 

(2) in rule 50-B, for the figures and word “35 paise”, wherever they occur, 
the words “Fifty Paise” shall be substituted. 


(3) in rule 107,— 

(1) in sub-rule (I) — 

(a) for the figures and word "35 paise”, the words “Fifty Paise” shall be 
substituted; 

(b) after the first proviso, the following further proviso shall be added, 

namely: — 

“Provided also that the charge shall in no case exceed Rupees Fifteen.”; 

(ii) in the proviso to sub-rule (2) for the words "rupees seven and seventy 
paise”, the words “Rupees Fifteen” shall be substituted; 


(4) in rule 107A for the figures and word “35 paise”, wherever they occur, the 
woida "Fifty Paise’* shall be substituted. 


[No. 1-21/66-R.] 
D. R. NARANG, 
Asstt. Director-General (Rates). 




SEC, 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL £8, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 


757 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 6th April 1908 

G.S.R. 598.— In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to Class IV posts in the Office of the Registrar of Newspapers for 
India, New Delhi, namely; — 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Office of the Registrar of News- 
papers for India (Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules, I960- 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply to the posts specified In Column 2 of 
the Schedule annexed hereto. 

3. Classification and scale of pay. — The classification of the posts and the 
scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified in columns 3 and 4 of the said 
Schedule. 

4. Age limit, qualifications, method of recruitment etc, — The method of re- 
cruitment, age limits, qualifications and matters relating to the posts shall be as 
specified In columns 5 to 12 of the aforesaid Schedule: 

(i) Provided that the upper age limits specified in column 9 of the said 
Schedule may be relaxed In the case of candidates belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of 
persons in accordance with the general orders Issued by the Central 
Government from time to time; 

(11) Provided further that the educational and other qualifications specified 
in columns 10, 11 and 12 of the said Schedule may be relaxed by the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting at their discretion in the 
case of a candidate considered otherwise suitable for appointment to 
a post specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule; 

(ill) Provided also that the posts required to be filled by promotion or 
transfer may be filled by direct recruitment, if no suitable candidate 
is available for appointment thereto by promotion or transfer, as the 
case may be. 

5. Power to relax.— Where the Central Government is of the opinion that it is 
necessary or expedient to do so, it may, by order, for reasons to be recorded In 
writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules with respect to any class or 
category of persons. 

0. Probation. — All persons appointed whether by direct recruitment or other- 
wise to the posts specified in column 2 of the aforesaid Schedule, shall be on 
probation for a period of six months which may be extended at the discretion ctf 
the appointing authority. 

7. Disqualifications: 

(a) No person who has more than one wife living or who, having a spouse 

living marries In any case in which such marriage is void by reason 
of Its taking place, during the life time of such spouse, shall be 
eligible for appointment to the said post; and 

(b) No woman whose marriage is void by reason of the husband having a 

wife living at the time of such marriage or who has married a 
person who has a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall be 
eligible for appointment to the said post; 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are 
special grounds for so ordering, exempt any person from the opera- 
tion of this rule. 



Schedule 


Particulars of the post Method of recruitment and percentage of 

■ vacancies to be filled by : 

Name of Classifica- Scale 

the post tion chara- of pay Direct rec- Promotion 

cter and of the post ruitment Transfer 

status of Selection Seniority 

the post cwu-fitness 


Qualifications etc. for direct 
recruitment 


Qualifications etc., for recruit- 
ment by promotion/ transfer 


Age limits Educational and Whether age and edu- Grades/sources 


other qualifications cational qualifications 
required for direct 

recruitment 
will apply 
in the case 
of recruitment 
by promo- 
tion/ trans- 
fer 


from which 
promotion/ 
transfer is to 
be made 


Class IV Rs. 

Non- 75 — i— 

Gazetted 85 — EB — 

a—95 


2 Peon . Class IV Rs. 100% 

Non- 70 — 1 — 

Gazetted 80 — EB — 

1 — 85 

3 Chowkidars Class IV Rs. 100% 

Gazetted E.B. — 1 — 85 


Below Middle School pass Not applica- 
25 years bk 


By promotion 
of peons in 
the office 
of the Regist- 
rar of News 
papers for 
India with 3 
years service 
in that grade 
Not applicable 


Below (0 Should have ex- Not applicable Not applicable 
25 years perience of wor- 
king as a watch- 
man in a com- 
mercial concern, 
a local body 
or a Govern- 
ment Office 

for at least six 
months, Prefe- 


THE GAZETTE of INDIA : APRIL H8, 1966/VAISAK.HA 3, 1888 [Part II— 



4 Sweeper Class IV Rs. ico % Nil Nil Nil 

Non- to — i — So — 

Gazetted EB — i — 85 


1 

1 



given to Ex- 
Army and Ex- 
Police person- 
nel. 

(a) Should possess 
good physique 

Below Experience of wor- Not applicable Not applicable 
25 years king as Sweeper 

in a commercial 
concern or a Gov- 
ernment Office 
or a local body. 

[No. F. 1 6 /20/63-I (A) I RN I / RR/ QassrV/64] 
A. V. NARAYANAN, 

Under Secretary. 


-J 

Vt 


vP 


Sec. 3 ( 1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28 , 1 966 /VAISA EH A 8, 1888 



760 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1965/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part II- 


Ne to Delhi, the 14 th April 1966 

G.8.B. 599. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( i) of Section 
8C of the Press and Registration of Books Act, 1867, as amended, the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shrl A. Mitra, Secretary to the Government of India, 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, as Chairman of the Press and Registra- 
tion Appellate Board vice Shri A. N. Jha resigned. 


[No. 5/1/60-P&PC.] 
R. K. GOVIL, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 
(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues) 

New Delhi , the 29th March 1966 


G.S.R. 600. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 12 of the Capital 
Issues (Control) Act, 1947 (29 of 1947), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following rules, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Capital 
Issues (Application for Consent) Rules, 1966. 

(2) They shall come Into force on lit April, 1966. 

2. Definition. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires “Act” 
means the Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1947 (29 of 1947). 

3. Application for issue of capital— All applications for the issue of capital 
under the Act, other than the securities exempted from the provisions of sections 
3, 4 and 5 of the Act by the Capital Issue (Exemption) Order, 1961, shall be 
made, in quadruplicate, to the Controller of Capital Issues, Ministry of Finance 
Department of Economic Affairs, New Delhi, in conformity with the requirements 
laid down in the questionnaire specified in the Schedule annexed to these rules. 

4. Fee payable on application.— Every application under these rules shall be 
accompanied by a treasury receipt for fifty rupees which shall, at Bombay, Cal- 
cutta, Delhi, Madras and Bangalore, be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India 
and at other places in the nearest Government Treasury or in the nearest Branch 
or any agency of the Reserve Bank. The amount shall be credited to the head of 
account “LII-Miscellaneous — Miscellaneous-Receipts towards issue of Capital under 
the Capital issues (Control) Act, 1947”. 

5. Contents of application. — An application under these rules shall include a 
request asking for: — 

(i) the consent of the Central Government to the issue of capital under the 
provisions of the Act; 

(ii) any alteration in the terms and conditions of a consent previously 

given by the Central Government or any extension of the period of 
validity for which such consent was given; 

(iii) the regularisation of the issue of any capital made without the prior 

consent of the Central Government; and 

(iv) the consent of the Central Government under the Act in respect of any 

matter not specifically mentioned in any of the foregoing clause of 
this rule. 

6. Application to be entertained only on payment of fee. — No application 
under these rules shall he entertained unless it is accompanied by sufficient proof 
of the payment of the fee mentioned in rule 4. 

7. Repeal.— The Capital Issues (Application for consent) Rules, 1954, shall, as 
from the commencement of these rules, cease to be in force except as respects 
things done or omitted to be done thereunder. 


Sic. 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 8, 1888 


761 


Schedule 

CONTROL OF CAPITAL ISSUES 


Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1947 

Application for consent to the issue of capital by companies should be address- 
ed to the Controller of Capital Issues, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, 
New Delhi and should be made in the form of a letter which should include an- 
swers to the questions shown below, as far as they are applicable. 

Note — ( i) The answers should follow the order of these questions and the 
short title of each question should be quoted against the corresponding answer. 
The answer should be so worded that the letter can be read independently of 
the form. The letter (with enclosures) should be sent in quadruplicate, In the 
case of banking and insurance companies and bonus issues the letter may only 
be sent in duplicate. Only two copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Asso- 
ciation (one copy in the case of banking and insurance companies and bonua 
issues) need be furnished as enclosures. 

Part A — General. 

1. Present or proposed name. 

If new company, name of promoters. 

2. Date of incorporation. 

3. Corporate status whether public or private company and whether it Is 
Intended to alter the status. 

4. Whether Government or Non-Government company. 

5. Place of Registration and location of Head Office, giving the complete 
addresses if different. 

6 Present Business . — Descrihe fullv the cor'mrmv's present or nroposed lines 
of business according to the ’ocaMon of its factories. (Mere reference to the 
obiectives stated in the Momnrrrndum of As-oe'at’on will not be nccentable) 
Enclose copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association with the applica- 
tion. 

7 Previous applications . — Give particulars under the headings as detailed 
below as a separate annexure of anv application previously made to the Govern- 
ment of India since 17th May. 1943, or to anv former State Government in this 
connection by or on behalf of the same parties. 

(a) Date of application, 

(b) Number and date of consent order. 

(c) Amount of consent showing separately the amount consented against 

each security viz., Equity shares. Preference shares, Debenture, 

Bonus shares, Loans etc. 

(d) Indicate the capital subscribed and paid up against each consent. 

(e) If refused, number and date of refusal. 

Part B— Capital Structure as on da*e of Application. 


jjB- 'Enclose a copy of the latest audited balance sheet and profit and 
loss account with certified translation in English if not in that 
language. 



<7^2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, I960 /VAISAKHA S, 1888 [Part II- 


Preference shares 



Equity shares 


No.'of Value per 

shares share 

Amount 

No. of 
shares 

Value per 
share 

Amount 


(I) Capital. 

(a) Authorised. 

(b) Issued. 

(c) Subscribed. 


(d) Paid up. 

(e) If any part of (b), (c) and (d) had been raised under Exemption 

Order, give details. 

(2) Give particulars of preference shares under the following heads: 

(a) Date of issue of preference shares. 

(b) Rate of dividend and whether taxable or taxfree. 

(c) Details as to the terms of redemption and date/dates of redemption, 

if any. 

. , fv... nreference shares are cumulative or non-cumulative, 

(d) P a r r f t r 0 en be ven for different series of preference shares 

and debentures separately). 

(8) Indicate outstanding debentures according to date of issue, rate of in- 
terest, date of redemption, security etc. 

rate of interest) separately for each loan. 

(5) If the shares are partly paid up shares indicate why the capital require- 
ments cannot be met by further calls on shares. 

become available as an alternative to issuing new securities. 

(7) Indicate the equity and preference shares holding of the company 
per details given below: 


Equity shares 
No. of share Amount 
holders 


Preference shares 
Amount 


(a) Foreign company or com- 
oanies who jointly or several- 
ly hoM the majority ol 
shares. 

(b) Non-resident shareholders 
other than (a) above, (en- 
close a list of (a) and was a 
separate annexure) , 




Sec, 9(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1883 


(c) Managing Agents or Secre- 
taries and Treasurers or 
Directors. 

(d) Financial Institutions indicat- 
ing the names. 

(e) Central Government or 
State Government holdings. 

(f) Companies Registered under 
the companies Act. 

(g) Others. 

Total; — - 

8. Is the company directly or indirectly controlled hy non residents. 

9. State the number of equity shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the 
equity capital of the company and the total equity capital held by such persons. 

Part C — Objects of Issue 

1. Indicate in detail the objects of this issue. In the case of insurance or 
Banking companies indicate why the existing facilities are inadequate, 

2. State if a licence is required under the Industries (Development and Regu- 
lations) Act, 1951, for the proposed project. 

If so indicate the number and the date/s of the ‘letter of Intent’ /licence/s 
against each product if granted to the company enclosing copy/copies thereof. If 
the licence /s had expired state if this/these was/were duly extended. 

3. The total cost of each project according to the location of the factory or 
line of business may be given under the following headings: 


Rupee Foreign exchange Total 

Expenditure expenditure 
(in rupee*) 


(a) Land, 

(b) Buildings. 

<c) Plant and machinery. 

(d) Equipment. 

(e) Raw material. 

(f) Preliminary and pre-incorpo- 
ration expenses other than 

(g) working capital. 

(a) to (e). 

Total: — 

4. If the estimates as stated in paragraph 3 above differ from the estimates 
stated in an application already made under the Industries (Development and 
Regulation) Act, 1951 for the issue of a licence, the difference may be explained. 

5. If manufacture is according to a phased programme, give the requirement 
of capital (Rupee expenditure and Foreign Exchange requirements) each year 
till the project (s) is/are completed. 

8. If one of the objects of the Issue is to repay a loan, state the purpose of 
the borrowing and whether consent was obtained for that borrowing. 





7$ 4 the gazette of India : afril 25, lSeayvAisAKHA i, iefe [Fart ii- 


7. If an existing concern or assets are to be acquired, give the name, location, 
ownership and the purchase price. Furnish a set of balance sheets of vendor of 
the last five years, accompanied by a valuation report, by an independent authori- 
ty, ol the assets proposed to be acquired, and justify amount charged for good- 
will, if any. 

Part D — Sources of Finance and Foreign Collaboration. 

1. How is/are the project/s proposed to be financed. Indicate details given 
below stating separately the source of financing in rupees and in foreign exchange. 

(a) Capital already raised and expenditure incurred or set apart for the pro- 
ject/*. 


(i) Retained earnings. 

(ii) Capital raised under the Exemption Order. 

(lii) Capital raised against consent/s already given for the project, 

(b) Capital expenditure to be met from the issue of Capital. 


No. of Value Amount Premium on 
Shares shares 

if any 


(i) Equity shares. 

(11) Preference shares. 

(iii) Debentures. 

(iv) Miscellaneous issues of capital 
e.g. loans including P.L. 480. 

(v) Total amount of issue. 

(c) Capital expenditure to be met otherwise than from the proposed issue: 

(i) Release of investments or from further call on shares. 

(ii) Retained earnings of the company. 

(iii) Loans from holding company, Managing Agents, Directors or from the 

public. 

(lv) Loans from banking institutions. 

(v) Loans from financial institutions indicating the names. 

(vi) Deferred payment arrangements, (enclosing a copy of the agreement). 

2. Indicate the issue to be made to Foreign collaborators and non-residents 
and foreign financial institutions stating the number of shares and the amount 
(in rupee currency) of such issue as follows security-wise: 

(a) Issues under any foreign collaboration agreement enclosing a copy 

thereof and the approval of the Government if it has been obtained. 

(b) Issues to non-residents on ‘Right’ basis. 

(c) Issues to non-residents other than on “Right' basis. 

N.B . — With regard to (a) and (c) above indicate the names of parties, 
their status (individuals or companies) and nationality or countries. 

3, Give particulars of the extent and nature of any foreign collaboration in 
the form of consultation or technical assistance agreements. Indicate the agreed 
poyalty payments and provision for training of the Indian technicians. 



iic. 4(1}] I'HE GAZETTE Of INDIA ; APRIL 23, 1 966 /VaISAKHA 4, 1894 ^ 


Part E — Particulars of Issues. 

1, Issue for consideration other than Cash ; 

(a) If the issue or part of tho issue is for consideration other than cash give 
complete details as to the (i) type of security to be issued (ii) consideration 
involved (e.g. purchase of assets, technical services, know-how, preliminary and 
preincorporation expenses, goodwill etc.) the names of parties concerned and 
their present and proposed interest in the company. 

(b) If the issue is to give effect to any merger or amalgamation scheme give 
reasons for the merger or amalgamation and details of the amalgamating units 
in a separate annexure to this application as follows: — 

(i) Lines of business; (ii) Existing capital structure according to part “B” of 
this application; (iii) Dividends of the company for the preceeding five years; (iv) 
Market quotation of the shares if quoteu; (v) A copy of the valuation report 
fixing the rate of exchange of shares; (vi) copies of special resolutions passed by 
the companies in general meetings; (vii) copy of the scheme and of the oraer of 
a High Court, if any, approving the scheme and of a copy of the petition to a 
High Court; (viii) A list of common shareholdings of the companies showing the 
interest of each in the companies, (ix) Copies of audited balance sheets and pro- 
fits and loss accounts of the company making the issue and of amalgamating unit* 
for the preceding five years. 

2. Issue Price : 

(a) Indicate whether the equity shares are to be issued at par or at a pre- 

mium stating the issue price. The reasons for the issue of shares at 
a premium (or at par if quoted at a premium) may be stated. 

(b) In the case of existing companies state; 

(i) the rate of which shares of the same class as that proposed to be 
issued have recently been transferred.. 

(ii) Is the security listed; the latest quotation of the share specifying the 

date and the name of the stock exchange: 

(iii) dividends paid by the company for the preceeding five years. 

3. Particulars of Preference Shares and Debentures : 

(a) rate of dividend/interest and whether taxable or taxfree; 

(b) the terms and date(s) of redemption if any; 

(c) whether preference shares are cumulative or non-cumulative; 

(d) Indicate whether the debentures, preference shares are to be issued at 

par, premium or discount and the reasons therefor; 

(e) indicate the security to he offered in the case of debentures. 

4. Bonus Shares: 

State the reasons for the proposed capitalisation of profits or reserves. State 
whether reserves have been created out of genuine profits (i.e. profits actually 
earned by a company. Profits arising out of a revaluation of fixed assets are not 
to be taken into account). 

0, Particulars of Loans etc.: 

(a) Describe in details Instruments creating a charge or lien on the asset* 

of the company or which acknowledge a loan or indebtedness of the 
company and are guaranteed by or entered into jointly with a third 
party. 

(b) Exact amount of loan. 

(c) Source (s) from which the loan will be raised. 

(d) Terms on which the loan will be obtained e.g., rate of interest, period, 

how repayable etc., nature of security. 




766 TH£ gazette of India : april 23 , lyea/VAi&AKiiA 1, laes ii~ 


8. Allotments: 

, Indicate the proposed allotments of equity and preference shares and deben- 
tures stating the number of shares and the amount involved separately against 
the following headings: “ 

(a) “Rights” issue. 

(b) Firm allotments to: — 

(i) Foreign collaborators. 

(11) Other non-residents. 

(ill) Promoters, managing agents/secretaries and treasurers, directors and 
their friends and relations. 

(iv) Financial institutions indicating the name of each institution, 

(v) Centre /State Governments, 

(vi) Companies Registered under the Companies Act. 

(c) Unseserved offer to be made to the Public by prospectus (enclose two 

copies of the draft thereof), 

(d) Indicate the timing of the offer at (a) /(b) /(c) above. 

(e) Indicate the manner In which the calls will be made on the shares till 

these are fully paid up. 

7. Underwriting and listing arrangements. 

(a) If the issue by prospectus is to be underwritten indicate the parti- 

culars under following headings: 

(1) Name/s of the underwriters (ii) Proposed underwriting obligation 
(lil) Commission or Brokerage payable. 

(b) State whether the company proposes to get Its shares/debentures listed 

on the Stock Exchange (s). 

(c) Indicate the interest, if any, of the promoters, directors etc., in the 

underwriting arrangements. 


Part F~ Miscellaneous. 

1. Indicate the interest In the company of promoters, Directors, Managing 
Agents, Secretaries and Treasurers, Partners of Managing Agency if it is a Arm, 
Directors of Managing Agency if it Is a company, as under as a separate an- 
nexure. 

(a) Name, qualifications and address. 

(b) Occupation and Nationality. 

(c) Position or connection with the company as Chairman, Managing 

Director, Director, Promoter, Managing Agents, Partner of Managing 

Agency firm, Director of the Managing Agency, Secretary or Trea- 
surer. 

(d) Equity or preference shares held or proposed to be held in the com- 

pany. 

(e) Extent of any existing interest or proposed interest other than (d) 

above. 

(f) Directorships, Managing Agency or Secretary or Treasurershlp hold In 

other companies indicating their names. 

Z. State whether all the directors have agreed in writing to serve. Enclose a 
copy of the Managing Agency Agreement. 

3 The application may give here any further information In support of the 
request, e.g., date regarding estimated profitability of the project and the rate of 
return on the capital employed. 


enclosures : 


Cl) Treasury receipt for the application fee of Rs. 50 credited to I'll" 
Miscellaneous— Miscellaneous. Receipts towards issue of Capital 
under the Capital Issues (Control) Act, 1847. 



Sec, 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1388 -jfq 


(ii) Two copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association. 

(Ill) Particulars of previous applications. 

(iv) Latest audited balance sheet and Profit and Loss account and auditors’ 
report to the shareholders if an existing concern. 

(v) List of existing non-resident shareholders. 

(vi) Copy of a letter of Intent /Licence issued under the Industries (Develop- 

ment and Regulation) Act, 1951, if any. 

(vll) Copy of foreign collaboration agreement, if any. 

(viii) Copy of the approval by the Central Government of the terms of 
foreign collaboration, if any. 

(ix) Draft prospectus, (two copies) if issue is through a prospectus. 

(x) Partlcu 1 ars of Directors, Promoters, Managing Agents etc. 

(xi) Other documents, as required. 

[No, S. 7(8)-CCI(II)/60.] 
M. K. VENKATACHALAM, 
Controller of Capital Issues. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Medicinal and Toilet Preparations 
New Delhi, the 23rd April 1960 

G.S.R. 601. — In pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 60 of the Medicinal and Toilet 
Preparations (Excise Duties) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby dec- 
lares that the new medicinal preparation specified in column (2) of the Table below 
shall be included in the category of preparations specified in the corresponding 
entry in column ( 8 ) of the said Table. 

Table 


S. No. Medicinal Preparations 

(I) (2) 


Category 

(3) 


I. ZOLA CORDIATON, manufactured byM/s. Allopathic — capable of being 

Pharmed Private Ltd., Sion, Trombay Road, consumed aa ordinary alcoholic 
Chembur, Bombay 71 . beverage which does not contain 

known active ingredients in 
therapeutic quantities classifi- 
able under Item No. 1 (ii) (b) 
of the schedule to the Medicinal 
and Toilet Preparations (Excise 
Duties) Act, 1955 (16 Of 1955 ). 


[No. F. 45/5/ (18)/65-Oplum] 


Central Excises 
New Delhi, the 23 rd April I960 

G.S.R. 602. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules. 1944. and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and 
Company Law) No. 175/84-Central Excises, dated the 21st November, 1PG4, the 
Central Government hereby exempts sulphuric acid [falling under Item No. 14G 
of the First Schedule to the Central Excises and Salt Act. 1944 (1 of 1944)] used 
by a manufacturer for — 

(a) drying air in the air tower, 

(b) demineralisation of water (de-ionisation of water), and 



ygg THE GAZETTE- OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part H-. 


(c) generation of oxides of nitrogen for use as catalyst, 

in the manufacture of sulphuric acid within the factory of production from the 
whole of the duty of excise leviable thereon, 

[No. 59/06-C.E./F. No. 6/2/65-CX.V1I.] 

BHARAT DAS, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Central Excises 
New Delhi, the 23rd April 1966 

O.S.R. 603.— In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 12-A of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944. the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 62/58-Central Excises, dated the 21st June, 
1958, namely: — 

In the Table annexed to the said notification. Serial No. 3 and the entries 
relating thereto shall be omitted. 

[No. 00/66.] 
DAYA SAGAR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Central Excises 


New Delhi, the 23 rd April 1966 


GSR 604 — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (1) of rule 8 of 
the Central Excise Rules, 1944, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 44/62-Central Excises, 
dated the 24th April, 1962, namely: — 


In the said notification, for the letters, figures and words No, 97/65-Central 
Excises, dated the 26th June, 1965”. the letters, figures and words 'No. 29/60- 
Central Excises dated the 1st March, 1966”, shall be substituted and shall be 
deemed to have been substituted with effect from the 1st March, 1960. 


[No. 61/66-C.E./F. No. 15/16/66-CXI.] 


E. R. SRIKANTIA, Under Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

Central Excises 
New Delhi, the 23rd April 1966 

GSR 605. — In exercise of the powers conferred by rules 12 and 12A of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944, and in supersession of the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and Company 
Law) No 112/64, dated the 23rd May, 1964. the Central Government heieby 
directs that rebate of the duty paid on petroleum waxes packed In alkathene and 
lute bags specified in column (1) of the Table annexed hereto (beremaft r 
referred to as goods), shall, on their export out of India, whether by the manu- 
facturer or by any other person or firm, be granted to the extent set out in the 
corresponding entry in column (21 of Ihe said Table without the production of 
documents evidencing the payment of duty on such goods and without any appli- 
cation in Form A.R. 4: 

Provided that — 

(il in respect of the goods exported by land or inland water, this notiflea- 
tion^shall apply only to the goods that arc exporter to Pakistan or 

Burma; 



THE GATE i' i £ OF INDIA ; APRIL 2», IDwi/vAloAkHA 3,. 1888 yty 


(ii) the goods are exported within two years from the date of payment of 

duty or within such shorter period as the Centiai Government may 
specify in this behalf; 

(iii) the fact of payment of duty on the goods exported is established to the 

satisfaction of the Collector; 

(iv) the amount of rebate admissible is not iess than five rupees and thG 

value of the goods themselves at the time of export is, in the opinion 
of the Collector, not less than the amount of tne rebate claimed; 

(v) the exporter produces a certified copy of the shipping bill or the bill of 
export with an endorsement thereon by the proper officer of customs 
to the effect that the goods have been exported; 

(vi) the exporter undertakes to refund to the Collector on demand being 
made within six months from the date of payment any rebate 
erroneously paid to him; 

Cvii) the aforesaid rebate shall be paid by such officer as may be authorised 
in this behalf and in accordance with such procedure as may be 
prescribed from time to time, by the Central Board of Excise and 
Customs. 

Table 


Description 

( 1 ) 


Extent of Rebate 
( 2 ) 


Petroleum waxes termed 
waxes. 

Alkathene Bags used 
lining. 

Jute Bags. 


as other 

Rs. 

as inner 

Rs. 


Rs. 


102.00 per metric tonne. 
3 23 per metric tonne. 
2'05 per metric tonne. 


Total Rs. 107 28 per metric tonne 
of ‘other waxes’. 


CNo. 68/66-C.E. — F. No. 11/0 / 65-CX. , III] 
A. P. KUMTAKAB. Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1 1th April I860 

G.S.R. 606. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 of 
the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules to amend the 
Class I and Class II posts (Office of the Commissioner for Linguistic Minorities) 
Recruitment Rules, 19e2, published with the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Home Affairs No, G.S.R. 1143, dated the 24th August, 1962 
namely: — 

1. These rules may be called the Class I and Class II posts (Office of the Com- 
missioner for Linguistic Minorities) Recruitment Amendment Rules, 1966. 

2. In the Schedule to Class I and Class II posts (Office of the Commissioner for 
Linguistic Minorities) Recruitment Rules, 1962, — 

(a) in column 1 headed “Name of post”, for the words "Assistant Commis- 

sioner”, the words “Deputy Commissioner” shall be substituted; 

(b) in column 2 headed "No. of posts”, for the figure "2”, the figure “1” shall 

be substituted; 

(c) before the entries relating to "Section Officer”, the following shall b* 

inserted, namely: — 



5 


6 


Assistant 

Commis- 

sioner 


i General Rs. Not Transfer/ Not 

Centra 1 700 — 40 — applicable Deputation applicable 

Service 1100 — 50/2 

Class I — 1250 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


Not Not Not Transfer Not 

applicable applicable applicable Officers applicable 

working in 
similar or 
equivalent 
posts in the 
Central/ 

State Gov- 
ernments. 

Deputation 
({) Section 
Officers 
belonging 
to the 

Central 
Secretariat 
"Service with 
not less than 
7 years ser- 
vice in the 
grade. 

(a) Suitable 
Class I 

Officers 
working 
in the 
Central/ 

State 

Govern- 

ments. 

(Period of 
deputation — 
ordinarily 
not ex- 
ceeding three 
years). 




YtraVtl YA/wW TDl<iV : YIQNI 40 4XT4ZV0 4H 



77i 


Sec. 3(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; APRIL 23, 1366/VAISAKHA S, 1888 


(d) In the entries relating to "Section Officer”, — 

(i) in column 4 headed “Scale of pay”, — - 

(1) in item 2, for the expression "Grade III”, the expression "Section 

Officers' 1 shall be substituted; 

(2) In item 3, for the expression “Grade IV Officers”, the expression 

“Assistants” shall be substituted; 

(ii) in column 11, in item 2, for the expression "Grade III or Grade IV 

officers”, the expression "Section Officers or Assistants” shall be 
substituted. 


[No. F. 9/1/63-OL.] 
P. N. KATJL, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 14 th April 1906 

G.S.R. 607. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President herebv makes the following rules to amend 
the Central Vigilance Commission (Staff) Rules, 1964, namely:— 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Central Vigilance Commission (Staff) 
Amendment Rules, 1966. 

(2) They shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of November, 
1904. 

2. In the Central Vigilance Commission (Staff) Rules, 1904,— 

(i) in rule 6, after sub-rule (2), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, 
namely:— 

“(3) Fixation of pay of, or payment of deputation (duty) allowance to, 
persons appointed to the posts specified in the Schedule, from the 
posts or grades specified in the Table in sub- rule (1), shall be made 
in accordance with the same rules as are applicable for the time 
being to the Central Government emolovees in the respective grades 
or posts under the Union when such Central Government employees 
are transferred in the public interest on deputation outside the 
regular line of such empTOvees to other Governments, departments 
or bodies (whether incorporated or not), wholly or substantially 
owned or controlled by the Government. 

(li) after rule 11, the following Schedule shall be inserted, namely: — 

“Schedule 
[See rule 6(3)] 

1. Technical Examiner, 

2. Assistant Technical Examiner. 

3. Assistant Technical Examiner (Horticulture), 

4. Technical Assistant.” 


[(No. 23/85/64-AVD.] 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 1 6th April 1966 

G.S.R. 608.— In pursuance of sub-rule (1) and the first proviso to sub-rule (2) 
of rule 4 of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules. 1954, the Central 
Government in consultation with the Government of RAJASTHAN, herebv make 
the following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre 
Strength) Regulations, 1955; 

Amendment 

In the schedule to the said Regulations for the entries under “RAJASTHAN", 
the following may be substituted: — 

1. Senior posts under State Government 71 

Chief Secretary to Government 1 



772 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 23, 1966,/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [Part ll~ 


Additional Chief Secretary to Government 1 

Commissioner for Development and Ex-officio Secretary to 
Government Development Department 1 

Chairman, Board of Revenue 1 

Members, Board of Revenue 4 

Secretaries to Government 10 

Special Secretaries to Government 3 

Deputy Secretaries to Government 8 

Settlement Commissioner and Ex-offlelo Director of Consolidation 1 
Additional Development Commissioner and Ex-officio Deputy 

Secretary to Government 1 

Settlement Officers 2 

Registrar, Co-operative Societies 1 

Additional Registrar, Cooperative Societies 1 

Secretary to the Governor 1 

Secretary to the Chief Minister 1 

Collectors 26 

Director of Industries 1 

Commissioner for Departmental Enquiries 1 

Principal, Officers’ Training School, Jodhpur 1 

Commissioner, Commercial Taxes 1 

Commissioner, Excise 1 

Labour Commissioner 1 

Secretary, Rajasthan Canal Board 1 

Commissioner, Colonisation, Rajasthan Canal Project and the 
Bhakra Project 1 

~ 71 

2. Senior Posts under Central Government 28 

'"lii 

3. Posts to be filled by promotion and selection in accordance with 

rule 8 of the Indian Administrative Service (Recruitment) 

Rules, 1954 24 

4. Posts to be filled by direct recruitment 7fl 

5. Deputation Reserve @ 20 per cent of 4 above IB 

6. Leave Reserve @11 per cent of 4 above 8 

7. Junior posts @ 20,80 per cent of 4 above 18 

8. Training Reserve @ 10.50 per cent of 4 above 8 

I 21 

Promotion posts 24 

Total Authorised Strength 145 

2, The amendment hereby made shall be deemed to have been In force from 
ist April, 1980, ~ 

[No. 0/29/06-AIS(I).] 
N, RAGHUNATHAN, Under Secy. 

New Delhi, the 8th April 1966 

G.S.R, 609, — In pursuance of clause (21 of article 222 of the Constitution, the 
President hereby makes the following order, namely: 

That Shri Justice Khaleel Ahmad, who was transferred from the Patna High 
Court to the Orissa High Court, shall be entitled to receive, in addition to his 
salary, a compensatory allowance at the rate of runees four hundred oer men- 
sem for the period of his service as Chief Justice of the Orissa High Court. 

[No. 8/2/65-Judl.I.] 
C. P. GUPTA, Jt, Secv, 



J* r. S(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2S, 1966/VAISAKHA S, 1888 773 


planning commission 

(Programme Evaluation Organisation) 

New Delhi, the 11th. March 1906 

G.8.R. 610. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules regulating 
the recruitment and conditions of service of persons to the posts of Investigator 
(Grade I) in the Programme Evaluation Organisation of the Planning Commis- 
sion, namely: 

1- Short Title. — (1) These rules may be called the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation (Non-Secretariat posts) Recruitment Rules, 1968. 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. Application. — These rules shall apply to the posts specified in column 1 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed. 

3. Number of posts. Classification and scales of pay.— The number of posts, 
their classification and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as specified 
in columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule. 

4. The method of recruitment, age limit and other qualifications.. — The method 

of recruitment, age limit, qualifications and other matters connected therewith 
shall he as specified in columns 5 to 13 of the Schedule aforesaid. 

Provided that the upper age limit prescribed for direct recruitment may be 
relaxed in the case of persons belonging to any Scheduled Caste or Scheduled 
Tribe or other special category of nersorts In accordance with the orders issued 
from time to time by the Central Government. 

5. Disqualifications. — No person, who has more than one wife living or who, 
having a spouse living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by 
reason of its taking place during the life time of such spouse, shall be eligible 
for appointment to any of the posts; and no woman, whose marriage is void by 
reason of her husband having a wife living at the time of such marriage or who 
has married a person who has a wife living at the time of such marriage, shall he 
eligible for appointment to any of the posts. 

Provided that the Central Government may, if satisfied that there are special 
grounds for so doing, exempt any person from the operation of this rule. 

6 . Power to relax.— Where the Central Government is of opinion that it .is 
necessary or expedient so to do, it may by order, for reasons to be recorded in 
writing and in consultation with the Uni^n Public Servioe Commission, relax any 
pf the provisions of ttiese rules in respept of any pigs? or category of persons. 



774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 2.1, 1966/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 [P a rt II- 


Recruitment Rules for the Posts of Investigator {Grade T) in 


Name of post 

No. 

Classification Scale of 

Whether 

Age limit 

Educational and 

of 

pay 

Selection 

for 

other 

qualifica- 


pests 


post 

direct 

tions 

required for 



or non 

C> 

recruits 

direct 

recruits. 


Selec- 
tion 1 
post 


i 2 3 4 5 6 7 


(r) Investigator It 
(Gr. I) 

(Economics) 


General Rs. 325- 

Central 15-473- 

Service EB-20- 

Class IT 575. 

(Non- 

gazetted 

Non- 

Mini st erf a) ) 


Selection. 30 years 

and below 
(relaxable 1 
for Go- 
vernment 
ser- 
vants) 


Essential : 

(i) Master’s degree 
in Economics or 
Agricultural Eco- 
nomics of a recog- 
nised University or 
equivalent. 


(it) About 2 years’ 
experience in Eco- 
nomic Research/ 
investigation, in- 
cluding field ex- 
perience, 


(fit) Knowledge of 
the Regional lan- 
guage, as may bo 
specified in each 
case, 


(Qualifications re- 
laxable at Com- 
mission’s discre- 
tion in case of 
candidates other- 
wise well quali- 
fied). 


Desirable'. 

Familiarity with, 
or knowledge of, 
rural develop- 
ment and evalua- 
tion work and ex- 
perience in drafting 
reports. 



Sit $(1)1 THE GAZETTE Of INDIA : APRIL 23, l^JfiAAtsAKfrA 3, 1$M 774 


Programme Evaluation Organisation ( Planning Commission). 


Whether Period of 

age and probation 

educational if any 

qualifications 

prescribed for 

the direct 

recruits will 

apply in the 

case of Pro- 

motees 


Method of recruit- In case of recruit- 
ment whether by ment by promotion 
direct recruitment deputation/transfer, 
or by promotion grades from which 
or by deputation/ promotion, deputa- 
transfer & percent- tion/transfer to be 
age of the vacah- made 
cies to be filled 
by various methods 


If a Depart- 
mental Pro- 
motion 
Committee 
exists, what 
is its com- 
position 


Circumstan- 
ces in which 
UPSC is to 
be consulted 
in making 
recruitment 


8 9 


io 


II 12 13 


No, 


2 yrs. By promotion — 75% Promotion-. 

By direct recruit- Investigators 
ment— 25% (Grade II) (with 

qualifications in 
Economics or 
in subjects other 
titan those pres- 
cribed for posts 
in Statistics and 
Sociology dis- 
ciplines) with 4 
years’ service m 
the grade. 


Class II As required 
Department- under the 
tal Pro- rules, 
motion 
Committee. 



? 7 (5 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AFrIL S», l&«8/VAtsAKNA j, 16M [F a *t ll- 


i 


2 3 4 5 6 7 


(2) Investigator 
(Gr. I) 
(Statistics). 


General 

Rs. 325— Selection 

30 yrs. 

Essential : 

Central 

15—475— 

& below 


Service 

EB— 20 — 

(Relax- 

(*) Master’s degree 

(Class 11) 

575. 

able for 

in Statistics or 

(Non- 


Govern- 

Mathematics/ 

gazetted) 


ment 

Economics/Com- 

Non- 

Ministerial) . 


servants). 

merce (with 

Statistics of a 

recognised Uni- 
versity or equiva- 
lent. 


Or 


Degree of a re- 
cognised Univer- 
sity with Mathe- 
matics /Statistics as 
a subject and 2 
years’ post gradua- 
te training in 
Statistics at a re- 
cognised Insti- 
tution. 


(»'») About 2 years’ 
experience in 
Statistical In- 
vestigation, in- 
volving collection, 
compilation Bnd 
interpretation of 
Statistical data. 


(fit) Knowledge of 
the Regional 
language, as 

may be specified 
in each case. 


(Qualifications re- 
laxable at Com- 
mission's discre- 
tion in case of 
candidates other- 
wise well quali- 
fied). 


Dtrirablf. 

Familiarity with, 
or knowledge of, 
rural develop- 
ment and evalua- 
tion work and ex- 
perience in draft- 
ing reports. 



Sec. 1(1)} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1066/VAISAKHA 3, 1888 yyy 


8 


9 io 


H 


12 13 


No 


2 

years 


By Promotion — Promotion : 

50 % 

Investigators 
By direct recruit- (Grade II) 
ment — Jo% (Statistics) 

with 4 years’ 
service injthe 
grade. 


Class II As reqqired 
Depart- undet' ‘ the 

mental rules. 

Promotion 
Committee. 



778 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 28, 1966 y VAISAKHA 3, 188tf [Part 11 - 


I 

2 3 

4 5 

6 

7 

l) Investigator 

2 General 

Rs. 325 — Selection 

30 yrB. 

r Essential: 

(Gr. I) 

Central 

15—475— 

& below 


(Social & 

Service 

EB — 20 — • 

(Reiaxa- 

( 1 ) Master’s degree 

Allied Sciences) 

Class II 

575. 

able for 

in Sociology, 


(Non- 


Govern- 

Social Psychology 


gazetted) 


ment 

or Social Anth- 


Non- 


servants) 

ropology of a 


Ministerial) 


recognised Uni- 


vcrsny or 

equivalent. 


(») About 2 years’ 
experience of re- 
search on problems 
relating to So- 
ciology, Social 
Psychology or 
Social Anthropo- 
logy including 
field expericncrc, 

(Hi) Knowledge of 
Regional langu- 
age as may be 
specified in each 
case. 

(Qualifications re- 
laxable ut Com- 
mission’s discre- 
tion in case of 
candidates other- 
vAse well quali- 
fied). 


Desirable : 

Familiarity with, 
or knowledge, 
of, rural develop- 
ment and evalua- 
tion work . nd 
experience in 
drafting o , 



Sir- 8(1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : APRIL 25, 1966/VAISAK.HA 3, 1888 779 

8 9 10 II 13 13 


No 2 By promotion — Promotion : Claaa II As required 

years. 50% DPC under the 

Investigators (Grade rules. 

Ill (Social and 
By direct recruit- Allied Sciences) 

ment— 50% with 4 years’ ser- 

vice in the grade. 


[No. PEO/15(2)/64-Adm.I.] 
JAGAT NAKAIN JAIN, Under Secv. 


PRINTED IN INDIA DY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF IttMA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1986 




