foreto 370 222 


REGISTERED No . 1) . 227 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


po 46 ] 
No. 45 ) 


af farvett, tiara, TaraT 16, 1968 /Fift 25, 1890 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह प्रलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be allod 

as a separate compilation , 


HTT II 3 — 5900 ( ii) 

PART II — Section 3 – Sub -section ( ii) 
(रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़ कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक प्रावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 


S . O . 3979 . — Whereas in pursuance of the exchange of letters between the Government 
of India and the league of Arab States , it is necessary to accord to the said League 
of Aiah States and its representatives and officers , privilegcs and immunitics in India 
similar to those contained in the provisions set out in sections 18 and 19 in the Scho 
dule to the United Nations ( Privileges and Immunities ) Act, 1947 (46 of 1947); 


And whorcas , the Central Government considers that for tho purpose of giving 
effect to the said exchange of letters, it is cxpcdicnt that ihe said sections 18 and 19 
of the Schedule to the said Act shall apply to the League of Alab States subject to 
the modifications specified below : 


Now therefore , in esercise of the rowers conferred by Section 3 of the United 
Nations (Privileges and Immunities ) Act, 1947 , and in supersession of the notification of 
the Governmont of India in the Ministry of External AiFair s No. MI- 104 ( 89 ) / 65 dated 
the 9th Au ?list, 1965, the Central Government hereby 17 - clares that the provisions of 
sections 18 and 19 of the Schedule to the suid Act, shall pply mutatis mutandis to the 


( 5061 ) 


5062 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 16, 1968 / KARTIKA 15, 1890 [ PART II. 


office of the I eague of Arab States in India and to its representatives and officers subject 
to the following modification namely : 

MODIFICATION 
In the Schodule to the said Act, 
( i) in section 18, for the words " Officials of the United Nations " , the words 

" Chief Representative and other officials of the office of the Loague of 

Arab States in India " shall be substituted ; 
(il) in section 19, after the words “ the Secretary -General and all Assistant Secre 

tarics - General ", the words " of the League or Arab States shall be in 
Berted . 

[ No. DII -451 / 68 ( 16 / 4) .] 
By Order and in the name of the President of India. 

___ B. A . RAJAGOPALAN, Dy. Ch. of Protocol. 


विदेश मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 2 नवम्बर 1968 
एस० मो0 3980 . - -- भारत सरकार और प्ररव राज्य संघ के बीच पत्रों का जो प्रादान -प्रदान 
हमा है उसके अनुसार पकि यह मावश्यक है कि उक्त अरब राज्य संघ को और उसके प्रतिनिधियों 

अधिकारियों को भारत में वैसी ही सविधाएं और उन्मक्सियो प्रदान की जाएं जैसी कि 
संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( सुविधाएं और उन्नुक्तियां ) अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 46 ) की अनुसूची के 
धारा 18 पोर 19 की ध्यास्थानों में निहित हैं ; 

और जबकि केन्द्र सरकार पह समझती है कि पत्रों के उक्त प्रादान- प्रदान को कारगर रूप देने 
के उद्देश्य से यह मावश्यक है कि उम्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची की धाराएं 18 और 10 अरब राज्य 
संभ पर निम्नलिखित संशोधन के साथ लागू हों ; 

इसलिए, प्रग , संयुक्त राष्ट्र ( सुविधाएं और उन्मुक्तियां ) अधिनियम 1947 की धारा 3 
द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए पोर भारत सरकार, विदेश मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या एम० 1 - 104 ( 89/ 65, दिनांक 9 अगस्त 1965 के अधिक्रम में , केन्द्र सरकार इसके 
द्वारा घोषित करती है कि उक्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची के 18 और 10 धारामों की व्यवस्थाएं , 
पावश्यक परिवर्तनों के साथ , भारत में अरब राज्य संघ के कार्यालय पर और इसके प्रतिनिधियों 
तमा अधिकारिमों पर निम्नलिखित संशोधनों के साथ लागू होंगी , यथा : - - 

संशोधन 
उक्त अधिनियम की अनुसूची में -- 

1. वारा 18 मे लिखित “ संयुक्त राष्ट्र के कर्मचारियों के स्थान पर , " भारत में अरब राज्य 
संघ में कार्यालय के मुख्य प्रतिनिधि मौर अन्य कर्मचारी पढ़ा जाए । 

2. धारा 19 में लिखित शब्द “महासचिव और सभी सहायक महासचिव के पहले “ अरब 
राज्य संग के , " जोड़ दिया जाए । 

[ . पी II --461/ 68( 16/ 4) .] 
भारत के राष्ट्रपति के नाम में और उनके आदेश से , 


बी० ए० राजा गोपालन , 
उप नयाभार प्रमुख । 


5063 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 

- - - - - -SS 

ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 17th July 1968 


$ . 0 . 3981, - In pursuance of section 106 o† the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Llection Commission hereby publishes the judgment delivered on 
the 12th January , 1988 by the High Court, Bombay in Election Petition No . 6 of 
1987. 


HIGH COURT, ORIGINAL SIDU 
ELECTION PETITION No . 0 or 1967 


Versus 
George Fernandes and Others - Respondents . 
Mr. R . Jethmalani with Mr. N . H . Gurgahani, 
Mr. Shamrao Samant, Mr. S. P , Kanuga , 
Mr. S . H . Guruahani -- for the petitioner . 
Mr. Porus Mehta with Mr. V. D . Mangde, 
Mr. S . B . Naik , Mr. Kumar Mehta and 
Mr. S . V . Vaidya instructed by Messrs Sukhthankar and 
Gupte, Attorneys -at-Law - For Respondent No. 1. 
Mr. K . S . Cooper with Mr. S. T. Tijoriwala , 
Mrs. M K , Cooper and Mr. R . N . Vakharia 

instructed by Messrs . Nanayati Tijoriwala and Co., 

Attorneys- at -Law - for Respondent No. 2 . 
Mrs. C . X . Bengeri — for Respondent No. 3. 
Mr. S . M . Naik , Advocate -- for Respondent No . 10. 


Date of decision 

29th January , 1968 
CORAM : KANTAWALA, J. 

12th January , 1968 


ORAL JUDGMENT 


1987 . Light an. 1 George result of thehe! 


The election to the House of the People from Bombay ( South ) constituency 
was held on February 21 , 1907. Eight candidates contested the seat from this 
constituency at the election . Respondent No . 1 George Fernandes and respondent 
No. 2 S . K . Patil were two of these candidates . The result of the election was 
declared on February 24 , 1967. Respondent No. 1 was declared the successful 
candidate , he having scured the largeset number of votes, viz .. 1,47 ,841 . Respon 
dent No . 2 secured the next highest number of votes , he having secured 1, 18 ,407 
votes . The remaining six candidates secured comparatively much lesser number 
of votes . The petitioner Samant Nikanth Balkrishna an elector being entitled 
to vote at the election has filed this election petition on April 7 , 1967 for a decla 
ration that two election of respondent No. 1 to the House of the People is void . 


The petitioner has challenged the validity of election of respondent No. 1 on 
the grounds set out in section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) , Section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) (il) and section 
100 ( 1 ) ( d ) (iv ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (hereinafter referred 
to as " the Act" ) . 


The case of the petitioner is that corrupt practices under section 123 ( 8 ) . 
section 123 ( 3A ) and section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act are committed by respondent No. 1 
himself or his agents or by some other person with his consent. A corrupt 


- - - - 


506 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 (PART II — 

- - - 
practice under section ( 123 ( 3 ) of the Act is, according to the petitioner, commit 
ted by using cow as a religious symbol for the furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of respondent No. 1 or, at any rate , for prejudicially affecting the election 
of respondent No. 2 . In the petition no particulars whatsoever arc furnished of 
the use of cow as such religious symbol, but at the trial such use was restricted 
to only two instances. The first instance of such corrupt practice relied upon 
at the hearing is by reason of publication of a cartoon and a poem ( Ex - 16 ) res 
pectively with the heading " The cow is my mother , do not kill her . The pig is 
my father, do not kill him ." and " Wailing of Sadoba , the son of a pig." in the 
issue of Maratha dated December 31, 1966 . The second Instance of this corrupt 
practice , according to the petitioner , is as a result of a statement made by Jagad 
guru Shankaracharya of the Puri Peeth at a press conference held in Bombay on 
February 16 , 1967. The commission of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3A ) 
of the Act is pleaded in paragraph 20 of the petition . In this paragraph the case 
of the petitioner is that in a number of published speeches made by respondent 
No. 1 and his workers with his knowledge and consent, it was alleged that respon 
dent No , 2 was an enemy of Muslims and Christians inasmuch as respondent No. 2 
had professed to discourage the slaughter of cows; respondent No. 1 and his 
workers thus promoted or attempted to promote feelings of enmity and hatred 
between the Muslim and Christian voters of the constituency and respondent No. 
2 and his workers ; that it was alleged that respondent No, 2 was interfering with 
articles of Christian and Muslim faith and that it was an attempt on the part of 
respondent No. 2 to drive the Muslims away to Pakistan and to deprlve the 
Muslims and Christians of their staple diet . No particulars whatsoever are given 
in the pctition as regards the time when or the place where such speecheh were 
made by respondent No. 1 and his workers with his knowledge and consent. The 
corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act referred to in the petition and 
relied upon at the trial can be divided into three categories . The Arst category 
consists of publication of false statements by respondent No . 1 himself in rclation 
to the personal character and conduct of respondent No . 2 , Four instances of this 
category were relied upon at the trial. The first instance relates to an article 
written by respondent No. 1 himself and published in the issue of Blitz dated 
November 5 , 1966, the second instance of this category relates to the speech made 
by respondent No, 1 at a public meeting held at Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967, 
the third instance is furnished by the statements made by respondent No . 1 at 
a press conference held at Bristol Grill Restaurant on February 9 , 1962 and the 
fourth instance is furnished by the speech made by respondent No. 1 at a public 
meeting held at Sabu Sidiq Chawl on February 10, 1967. The second category of 
the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act consists of the speech made 
by a person other than respondent No , I but in the immediate presence of respon 
dent No. 1 himself . There is only one instance relied upon in this behalf and that 
is furnished by a speech made by Mr, Madhu Limayc at a public meeting held at 
Chowpaty on January 8 , 1967. This spcech was made by Mr. Madhu Limaye in 
the presence of respondent No. 1 who presided over this meeting. The third 
category of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act consists of statements 
made or published by persons other than respondent No . 1 or his election agents . 
These statements are not made or published in their immediate presence . Thesc 
statements can be sub - divided into two sub - categories . The first sub - category 
consists of various false statements published by Acharya Atrc, the editor , printer 
and published of the newspaper Maratha is relation to the personal character and 
conduct of respondent No, 2 from time to time. The second sub - category relates 
to statements made by Shri Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Puri Peeth at a press 
conference held in Bombay on February 16 , 1967. It is the case of the petitioner 
that at this press conference , Shri Jagadguru Shankaracharya implicated that res 
pondent No. 2 had a hand in the riots that took place at Delhi on November 7 , 
1966 in the course of which , an arson was committed at the house of the Congress 
President. At this press conference , Shri Jagadguru Shankaracharya also des 
cribed respondent No. 2 as a hypocrite because of his pretended support for 
imposing ban on cow slaughter , 


The allegations about non - compliance with the provisions of the Constitution 
of India and of the Act and the Rules and the Orders made under the Act are 
made in paragraphs 2A , 2B , 2C , 2D and 2E of the petition . The contention in 
paragraph 2A is that the voting at every polling booth had taken place in accord 
ance with the provisions of Rule 38 ( 2 ) of the Conduct of Election Rules , 1981, 
that the practice so adopted was in violation of the required secrecy of ballot, 
that the procedure prescribed by Rule 38 ( 3 ) is repugnant to the provisions of 
section 59 of the Act and that this has, therefore , vitiated the election . The con 
tention in paragraph 2B is that a large number of voters who were on the rol 
of voters in the Bombay ( South ) Parliamentary constituency were registered as 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5065 


voters in other constituencies, that " such voters exercised their franchise at 
more than one constituency and this has materially affected the result of the 
election . In paragraph 2 ( C ) the grievance made is that there were a large num 
ber ol persons who were competent to vote at the election , but their names were 
lot entered in the electoral roll. The scale on which this happened and other 
circumstances attendant on the omission of the names of such yoters in the electo 
ral roll indicated a definite plan to destroy the electoral right of a large number 
of voters and to make a mockery of adult sufferage prescribed by Article 320 
of the Constitution . This has materially affected the result of the election . The 
contention in paragraph 2D is that a large number of persons who are dead or 
non -existent or, at any rate , did not satisfy the residence qualifications were in 
troduced in the electoral roll us electors and there were thus about 20,000 voters 
introduced as . bogus voters in the clectoral roll. In paragraph 2K grievance is 
made as regards the manner in which electoral roll was prepared . It is alleged 
that a sufficient number of enumerators was not appointed for preparation of the 
Olectoral roll and some of those who were appointed discontinued their work 
after some time. Thus a large number of voters who were duly qualified to vote 
were not registered as voters on the electoral roll. By this contravention , accord 
ing to the petitioner, the result of the clcction has been materially affected . 


Respondent No, I by his written statement and two supplementary written 
statements denied the existence of any ground for declaring he election to be 
woid . He denied the commission of any corrupt practice either by himself or by 
any other person as his agent or with his consent. Respondent No. 2 by his 
written statement has adopted the contentions of the petitioner in the petition 
and at the trial has supported the case of the petitioner . No other respondents 
have taken at the trial part in the proceedings of this petition . 


Before investigating the allegations of corrupt practice alleged by the peti 
tioner , it will be necessary to consider the principles which govern proceedings 
to challenge the election of a returned candidate . Under the Act an election 
petition can be presented by any candidate at the election or by any elector in 
accordance with the provisions of part vi of the Act. Section 83 enjoins upon a 
petitioner who has filed an election petition to set forth full particulars of any 
corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges including as ful statement as possible 
oľ the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and 
the date and the place of the commission of each such practice . The requirement 
of giving full particulars regarding the corrupt practice has got to be complied 
with sufficient fullness and clarification so as to enable the opposite party fairly 
to meet them and that they must be such as not to turn the enquiry before the 
Court into a rambling and roving inquisition . The primary responsibility of 
furnishing full particulars of the alleged corrupt practice and to file a petition in 
compliance with the provisions of section 83 of the Act is on the petitioner . He 
cannot take shelter behind the fact that neither the Court nor the respondent has 
in terms called upon him to furnish better particulars . Some of the avernments 
made in the present petition are rather very vague and the petition is drafted 
ignoring altogether the provisions of section 83 ( 1) (b ) of the Act. 


Section 87 of the Act prescribes the procedure to be followed by the High 
Court for trial of the election petition . It states that subject to the provisions 
of the Act and of any Rules made thereunder , every election petition has to be 
tried by the High Court, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure 
applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 to the trial of gults, Under 
Order 18 Rule 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure a party having the right to begin 
has to state its cuse fully before he starts lcading evidence in support of the 
issues which he is bound to prove . However, in the present case , the case of the 
petitioner was stated in the briefest and the shortest possible manner before the 
evidence started . This enabled the petitioner to improve his case even in a 
manner not contemplated at the time when the petition was Aled or the hearing 
of the pctition commenced . This also resulted in respondent No . 1 being taken 
by surprise on several grounds during the course of the trial. 


At the trial no evidence is led on behalf of thc petitioner to support the con 
tentions raised in paragraphs 2A , 2B , 2C . 2N , 2G and 2K of the petition , nor was 
any submission made at the time of the arguments to support these pleas. These 
paragraphs deal with the corrupt practice under section 123 (3A ) of the Act and 
the instances of the non - compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of 


5066 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 

= - = = = 

= 

. = 
India , tho Act and the Rules and the Orders made under tho Act. These conten 
tions are, therefore, deemed to have been given up and tho issues arising there , 
from will have to be answered against the petitioner . There remains for congl - . 
deration only the corrupt practices under section 123 ( 1 ) and section 123 ( 3 ) of 
the Act . 


The first instance of the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 
relates to an article ( Ex , 57) written by respondent No. 1 and published in the 
issue of weekly Blitz . dated November 5 , 1966 . The fact that this article is 
written by respondent No. 1 is not disputed either in the pleading or at the trial. 
So far as this publication is concerned , two things are relied upon by the 
petitioner in paragraph 2L of the petition as constituting corrupt practice under 
section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. It is alleged that this article showed a photograph 
of respondent No . 1 and a photograph of respondent No. 2 at the top of the 
article and by the captions printed under these photographs, respondent No. 1 
was shown as involved in a fight against political thuggery in the manner sug 
gesting that respondent No. 2 is a political thug. The second thing which is relied . 
upon as constituting the corrupt practice is a passage which is quoted in paragraph 
2L, as under: 
" These men ( including the second regpondent) form the hard core of the 

coterie which controls the destinies of the nation , even decides who . 
should be the Prime Minister and who should not be, hounds out the 
few honest Congressmen from public life , props up the Amichand 
Pyarelals and Chamanlals and supports them in all their misdeeds 

and puts a premium on dishonest businessmen and industrialigts." 
The contention of respondent No. 1 as regards the photographs and the captions 
thereunder is that when he furnished the article to the editor of Blitz he has 
neither provided the photographs nor furnished the captions to be written there 
under . It is his contention that these captions are not written by him , but they 
are written by the editor. . 

The case of the petitioner as regards the passage quoted in paragraph 2L 
of the petition is that the reference to Aminchand Pyarelals therein contains 
a clear insinuation that respondent No . 2 is behind the alleged Amlchand 
Pyarelal fraud ; it is well known that the ollegation against Amichand Pyarelal 
was that they had entered into consppiracy to defraud the Government of India 
by charging the Government of India for rice bags which never arrived from 
Burma ; that the said allegation is to tally false ; that, in any event respondent 
No. 2 has had nothing to do with Amichand Pyarelal or any of their associate 
concerns or the said bags of rice or charges in respect thereof. The conten 
tion of the petitioner is that the allegations quoted in paragraph 2L of the 
petition amount to saying that respcndent No. 2 is dishonest to the extent 
of helping in cheating the very Government of which he (respondent No . 2 ) 
was a member . The petitioner has pleaded that very wide publicity was given 
to the said false allegation and that inevitably must havo affected the result 
of the election . 

It is the contention of respondent No . 1 that the publication of the passage 
quoted in paragraph 2L of the petitior, is not the publication of a statement 
of fact, but it is merely an expression of opinion about the coterie in the 
Congress in the context of the entire article ; that the statements contained 
in the passage relied upon are not proved to be false; that, in any event, 
respondent No. 1 believed the said statements to be true or, at any rate , did 
not belicve them to be false ; that it is the case of the petitioner that the 
passage quoted in paragraph 21 of the petition is in relation to the personal 
character and conduct of respondent No . 2 because it containg an insinuntion 
that respondent No. 2 is behind the alleged Amichand Pyarelal fraud ; that 
the insinuation suggested on behalf of the petitioner ig not proper and is not 
justified and warranted by the facts established as existing on the day on 
which the article (Ex, 57 ) was written or published ; that on the day this 
article was written or published , no body had alleged or implicated that ros 
pondent No. 2 was associated with Amichand Pyarelal fraud in cheating the 
Government in respect of the rice bags deal, much less alleged that he ( res 
pondent No. 2 ) was party to such conspiracy engineered by Amichand Pyare 
lal ; that, therefore, the charge levelled against respondent No . 1 in paragraph 
24 is not established . The further contention of respondent No . 1 is that 
the criticism made in the passage relied upon lg against the Congres OTCAN 
zation and its coterie and is not against respondent No . 2 : that the article 
should be read as a whole and in the context of the two other articles ( Ext: 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 29 , 1890 


3067 


62 and 63) that followed it ; that reading the article in this manner will show 
that it is a political criticisin of the Congress party and not of respondant 
No, 2 ; that no allegations in relation to the private or personal charactor OJ 
conduct of respondent No . 2 are made; that no allegation is made that he is 
misappropriating funds or enriching himself by dishonest or corrupt means. 
The argument of respondent No. 1 further is that on the day this article was 
written or published , respondent No . 2 had not held himself out as a candidate , 
and, therefore, the article is not in relation to the personal character or con 
duct of any candidate . Lastly , the contention is that the pamage rolled upon 
Is not reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of respondent No. 7 s 
election . 

Before examining the facts in connection with this corrupt practice , It is 
important to bear in mind the nature of the present proceedings , the standard 
of prool required to bring home the charge to the returned candidate and the 
manner of approach to the problem , 

When a court deals with allegations about the commission of corrupt prac 
tice by a returned candidate , the charges framed are in the nature of quasi 
criminal charges. The proof of the charge has a double consequence : the 
election of the returned candidate is set aside and he incurs subsequent dis 
qualification as well . Therefore when a charge of this nature is framed against 
a returned candidate , it has to be proved satisfactorily . It should not be 
overlooked that the onu , to prove the essential ingredients of section 123 ( 4 ) 
is on the petitioner and so it would be for him to prove that a statement is 
falge and that the other requirements of the section are satisfied. Having 
regard to the nature of the corrupt practice which is prescribed by section 123 ( 4 ) , 
it is now well settled that the strict rule of pleadings prescribed by Order 8 
Rule 5 of the Code is not to be blindly invoked in election proceedings of this 
type. (See Jagjit Singh v . Giani Kartar Singh and others AIR . 1966 Supreme 
Court 773.) 

It may be remembered that in the trial of an election petition , the burden 
of proving that the election of a successful candidate is liable to be set aside 
on the plea that he was responsible directly or through his agents for corrupt 
practices at the election , lies heavily upon the petitioner to establish his care , 
and unless it is established in both these branches, i.e . the commission of acts 
which law regards as corrupt, and the responsibility of the guccessful candidate 
directly or though his agents or with his consent for its practice not by mere 
preponderance of probability but by cogent and reliable evidence beyond any 
reasonable doubt, the petition must fail. The evidence in the case has to be 
examined bearing this approach to the evidence in mind, 

In s . Kundaswami v . S . B , Adityan and others, A . I. R . 1966 Madras 170 the 
Court had occasion to consider the nature of the trial of the election petition . 
While considering this question it is pointed out: The trial in an election peti 
tion is a quasi - crimiral trial and not a clvil trial. The standard of proof in 
an election enquiry is the same as in a criminal trial. The onus of establishing 
a corrupt practice beyond reasonable doubt rests heavily on the person who 
challenges the election , No doubt, the procedure followed in enquiries in elec 
tion petitions is civil in form , but in substance , it is a criminal trial, especially 
when one keeps in view the results and consequences that follow from the 
decision , in election petitions. Simply because the procdure to be followed is 
civil in form , it cannot be contended that the amount of proof required for 
bringing the charges home to the person against whom the accusation is made 
1s reduced to that of an enquiry in a purely civil proceeding so as to give room 
for the theory of the balance of prababilities or the shifting or the burden . The 
object of an enquiry in an election petition is mostly punitive, though it may 
not be wholly so . Ic is not open to the person to contend that it he has proved 
a prima facie case against a candidate , it is for the candidate to rebut the prima 
facie case made out against him . 

The necessity of proving the charge beyond reasonable doubt has also been 
emphasized in the case of Lachman Singh Gill v . Bibi Harparkash Kaur, A .I . R . 
1960 Punjab 395. It is there said ; The onus of proving corrupt practices lies on 
those who assert their commission and they have to be established beyond the 
possibility of a reasonable doubt. The ovidance in their support need not 
necessarily be direct, but the circumstantial evidence and the inferences dedu 
clble therefrom must be ruch as to lead to the only reasonable conclusion of 
the commission of the corrupt practice alleged . No conjecture of surmise , bow 
ever attractive or even plausible , can take the place of proof and if two equally 


: - - 


5 068 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ PART II 

- 

= 
reasonable inferences or conclusions are possible , one innocent and the other 
guilty , the former should normally prevail . 

While dealing with the nature of burden of proof in a petition filed by unsuc 
C essful candidate to challenge the election of the returned candidate , in Ganji 
Reddy y . Anjaneya Reddy , ( 1965 ) 22 election Law Reports 261. The Supreme 
Court pointed out: The burden of proof has two distinct meanings, viz ., ( i ) 
the burden of proof as a matter of law and pleading and (ii) the burden of 
proof as a matter of adducing evidence . Section 101 of the Evidence Act dealg 
with the former and Section 102 with the latter . The first remains constant 
and the second shifts . In an election petition the burden of proving that 
certain statements alleged to have been published by the respondent were false 
and that the respondent know them to be false or did not believe them to be true 
is, in the first instance, on the petitioner , But if the petitioner examines him 
self and states that he has not committed the alleged acts and proves circumst 
ances indicating a motive on the part of the respondent to make false allegations 
against him , the Court is entitled to accept his evidence and if it does so , the 
onus would shift to the respondent to prove the circumstances , if any , to 
dislodge the assertion made by the petitioner and if the respondent has failed 
to put before the Court any fact to establish either that the petitioner did 
in fact commit the acts of violence in the past or to give any other circumst 
ances which made him bona fide believe that he was so guilty , the Court is 
entitled to say that the burden of providing the necessary facts has been dis 
charged by the petitioner. 


In considering the question as to whether a particular publication made by a 
candidate or his agent or with his consent falls within the mischief of section 
123 ( 4 ) , Courts should not be astute to read into the words used in the publica 


construction . The principles which have to be applied in construing such a 
document are well settled . The document must be read as a whole and its 
purport and effect determined in a fair , objective and reasonable manner . In 
reading such documents , it would be unrealistic to ignore the fact that when 
election meetings are held and appeals , are made by candidates of opposing 
political parties , the atmosphere is usually surcharged with partisan feelings 
and emotio . 8 and the use of hyperboles or exaggerated language or the adop 
tion of metaphors , and the extravagance of expression in attacking one another , 
are all a part of the game; and so , when the question about the effect of speeches 
delivered at election meetings or articles published during election period is 


made and the impugned speeches or articles must be construed in that light. 
In doing so , however , it would be unreasonable to ignore the question as to 
what the effect of the said speech or article would be on the mind of the elec 
tor or voter , who atiends such meetings or reads such articles or hears the 
speeches. ( See Kultar Singh , y , Mukhtiar Singh , A .LR . 1965 Şupremc Court 141.) 


That such is the proper approach for construing speeches or articles is again 
emphasised in the case of Jagdev Singh Sidhanti v . Pratap Singh Daulta and 
others, A . I. R . 1965 Supreme Court 183. It is there said that speeches made at 
political meetings neld for canvassing votes must be examined in the context 
of the atrnosphere of a political campaign and the passions which are generally 
aroused in such a campaign . In adjudging whether the appeal is made to the 
language of the candidate , a meticulous examination of the text of the speech 
in the screne atmosphere of the Court room picketing out a word here and a 
phrase there to make out an offending appeal to vote for or against a candidate 
on the ground of language would not be permissible . 


Section 123 of the Act sets out what the diverse corrupt practices recognis 
ed by the Act are , Clause (4 ) defines a corrupt practice by publication of false 
statement calculated to prejudice the prospects of a candidate s election . To 
bring a corrupt practice within the purview of clause (4 ), there must be a 
publication by a candidate or his agent or by another person with the consent 
of the candidate or his election agent: the publication must contain a statement 
of fact which is false and which the candidate believes to be false or does not 
believe to be true, the statement must be in relation to the personal character 
or conduct of the candidate and it must be reasonably calculated to prejudice 
the prospects of the candidate s election . The expression " statement of fact" 
in section 123 ( 4 ) includes not only an express imputation but also an innuendo if 
one such may reasonably be raised from the language in which it is couched 
and the inanner of its publication . 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA ? 5 , 1890 5069 

= = 

- = 
Article ( Ex . 57) is one in a series of three articles published in the issues of 
Blitz from time to time. Article (Ex . 57) , a quotation from which is relied upon 
as constituting the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) was published in the 
issue of Blitz dated November 5 , 1966 , The second article that is published in the 
this series is Ex . 62 and it is published in the issue of Blitz dated November 26 , 
1966 . This article primarily deals with the criticism of the food policy of the 
Government under the various PL 480 agreements with America, The third 
article in this series is Ex , 63 and it is published in the issue of Blitz dated 
December 24 , 1966 . Ex . 63 deals with administration of railways during the 
time respondent No. 2 was the Minister of Railways in the Central Government. 
It is not the case of the petitioner that in Ex , 62 or Ex , 63 there is any publica 
tion of a statement of fact which is false in relation to the personal character 
or conduct of respondent No. 2. It is only the quotation from Ex. 57 that is 
relied upon as constituțing the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) . 

Ex. 57 is a long article consisting of about 22 paragraphs. It is hcaded 
" Why I am fighting Patil” . At the top of this article in the left hand column , 
there is a photo of respondent No . 1 with a caption " George Fernandes Fight 
against . . . . . " . In the right hand column, there is a photo of respondent No. 1 
with a , caption " Sadoba Patil . . . . . . Political thuggery " . Paragraphs 1 to 7 
of this article deal with the question why respondent No. 1 is fighting respon 
dent No. 2 and the question — the myth that respondent No. 2 cannot be defeat 
ed at the election can be cxploded . Paragraphs 8 to 14 deal with the situation 
in the country under uninterrupted Congress rule for a period of nearly 19 
years, Paragraphs 15 and 16 thereof deal with the coterie that exists in the 
Congress and the persons who constitute the hard core thercof. The remaining 
paragraphs 17 to 22 deal with respondent No . 2 . Thus in the first part , viz ., 
paragraphs 1 to 7 respondent No. 1 gives his reason for having chosen to fight 
respondent No. 2 in a risky area deliberately . In these paragraphs he has pointed 
out that in the past clections out of four and a half lakh voters in this constitu 
ency , respondent No, 2 only secured about one and a half lac yotes and nearly 
three lakh voters did not consider him worthy of their votes . He has also pointed 
out that even those who voted for respondent No. 2 in the past elections would not 
now vote for him in the 1967 elections. He has stated : 
" I would like to rally these voters and shatter the myth that our voters 

are so backward that they can be persuaded to vote against them 
selves by political thuggery and corruption . And while doing this 
revive and restore the lost faith of the people in the parliamentary 

system which Patil has so successfully undermined by his politics." 
In the subsequent paragraphs he has emphasised that the fight at the elec 
tion is not really between the two respondents but that it would be a fight bet 
ween the electors of South Bombay and respondent No . 2 and that he had no 
doubt in his mind that the people would win . In paragraph 8 he has expres . 
sed his views in connection with the country finding itself in economic ruin , 
morally decayed and in political chaos alter 19 years of uninterrupted Congress 
rule . He has referred to the various problems that exist in the country , viz ., 
unemployment, rise in prices, falling standards of living and the poor purchas 
ing power of the supce after the country became free . In paragraph 10 he has 
dealt with the absence of national character, he has referred to the talk of 
corruption and bribery, nepotism and favouritism , jobbery and how people 
associate Ministers names with the cancer of corruption that is cating into 
the vitals of the country . In paragraph 12 he has dealt with how the minds 
of the people are agitated at the fraud perpetrated by continuing the emergency 
and the Defence of India Rules, how these Rules are used to suppress opposition 
parties and trade union workers and to harass and browbeat , traders and shop 
keepers . In paragraph 13 he has dealt with the question of poverty in the 
country and how sometimes parents come forward to sell their children for a 
paltry sum of Rs. 5 to save themselves from starvation . In paragraph 14 he 
has dealt with the feelings of the students , the housing problem and the lill 
teracy prevailing in the country . Paragraphs 15 and 16 of the article are as 
under : 

" While it is necessary that the Congress Party be defeated in the forth 

coming elections if the country is to be pulled out of the morass into 
which it has sunk , it is imperative that men like S . K . Patil, Atulya 
Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiya Reddy, who represent the most re 
actionary and degenerate elements in the ruling party be definitely 
trounced . 

The Worst in our Public Life 
These men form the hard core of the coterie which controls the destinieg 

of the nation , even decides who should be the Prime Minister and 


5070 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 . 1890 [Part II— . 


- - - - 


who slould not be, hounds out the few honest Congressmen from : 
public llte , props up the Amincband Pyarelals and Chamanlals and 
cupports them in all their migdeeds and puts a premium on dis 
honest businessmen and industrialists ," 


The remaining paragraphs in this article only refer to respondent No. 2 . In 
paragraph 17 respondent No. 1 hag stated that respondent No. 2 is the boss of 
the political gang that is today taking the country down the drain and his 
defeat at the poll will deal a mortal blow to all those who stand for the worst 
in our public life . In paragraph 18 respondent. No, 1 has stated that the Cong 
ress Party has always been many things to many men , but to respondent 
No. 2 it has been the instrument to amass personal power in the manner of a 
Tammany Hall boss - power , not for the fulfillment of the aspirations of the 
masses but to provide help and succour to the exploiting classes in the country . 
In paragraph 19 respondent No . 1 has described respondent No. 2 ay the un 
crowned King of Bombay who has never cared to find a solution to the hous 
ing problem of the city . In paragraph 20 he has referred to the failures of 
respondent No. 2 while he was the Mayor of Bombay for nearly three terms 
and while he occupied a prominent position in the Bombay Pradesh Congress 
Committee for nearly two decades . In paragraph 21 respondent No . 1 has 
stated that respondent No. 2 who , even as a Minister in the Central cabinet, 
spends three days in a week in Bombay has time for the wealthy men and for 
their many rackets that operate from the Taj and Ritz Banquet halls ; the 
people of Girgaum and Kalbadevi, of Parel and Khetwadi, of Ghatkopar and 
Jogeshwari just do not exist for him except as mere powers to be used during : 
the elections. In paragraph 22 respondent No. 1 has completed this article 
by stating that respondent No . 2 does not love the country and its people . 


As regards the photographs and the captions under them , the case of 
respondent No. 1 is that he has nelther furnished the photographs nor written 
the captions under the photographs nor even written the varioug sub -heads 
which are printed in several places in the articles. The original article that 
was sent by respondent No. 1 to the editor Of Blitz is not produced ; however, 
respondent No. I s evidence in this behalt is not challenged . Respondent No . 1 
in his evidence stated that he had merely sent the article to the Blitz and in 
this article there were no sub -headings , nor were there any photographs, nor 
Were any captions written against those photographs. There is no cross - exami 
nation of respondent No. 1 on this evidence . It also appears from the evidence 
of respondent No. 2 that this part of the case of respondent No . 1 has not 
been seriously challenged . Respondent No . 2 hag admitted in his evidence that 
the editor of the newspaper Blitz has put the caption below his photograph , 
He has, however , given the reason why the editor did so . Respondent No. 1 
has actually used the words " political thuggery " in the article and the editor 
has chosen to pick up those words as a caption below his photograph . This 
evidence, therefore, shows that it is the editor of the newspaper who has 
put the caption below the two photographs of respondent No. 1 and Respondent 
No. 2 , and respondent No. 1 cannot be held responsible for what the editor did 
while putting the caption . It is not the petitioner s case that in putting the 
caption , the editor of the newspaper Blitz was acting as the agent of respon 
dent No. 1 or he put those captions with the consent of respondent No. 1 . 


There is a serious controversy between the parties as regards the persong 
to whom the pagsage quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition refers. It is the 
contention of the petitioner that it refers to persons named in the previous 
paragraph , viz ., S . K , Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy and 
specially to respondent No. 2 who lo described as the boss of the political gans 
in the guhgequent paragraph . The contention , on the other hand , on behalf of 
respondent No. 1 in that the various characteristics which are set out in the 
passage quoted in paragraph 2L are the attributes of the coterie that exists in 
the Congress organisations and they are not the attributes or characteristics 
of the four individuals whose names are specified in the previous paragraph 15 
of the article. In the alternative , the contention is that even if these character 
Istic , are not the attributes of the coterie , they , in any event, are the attributes 
of the hard core of the coterie . Men like S . K . Patil , Atulya Ghosh , Biju 
Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy form the hard core and they are not the character 
istics of these four individual persons whose names are already mentionect 
in the previous paragraph . 


= 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 890 071. 

= 
The petitioner in his evidence stated that on reading the article (Ex . 57) , 
he carried an impression that respondent No. 2 wag agsociated with Amichand 
Pyarelal in a conspiracy to defraud Government because it is stated in this . 
article that these men (ie., S . K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and 
Sanjiva Reddy ) prop up the Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals , pupport 
them in all their misdeedg and put a premium on dishonest businessmen and 
industrialists . According to the petitioner , in the phrase " hard core of the 
coterie which controls ," the word which goes with the " hard core" and not 
with the coterie . He added that anyone who had knowledge about the acti 
vities of Amichand Pyarelal will positively come to the conclusion that respon 
dent No . 2 had a hand with Amichand Pyarelal in a conspiracy to defraud the 
Government. 

Respondent No. 2 in his evidence stated that in paragraph 15 , the names 
of leaders including himself are mentioned in the passage quoted in paragraph 
2L of the petition . The words " these men " refer to S . K . Patil, Afulya Ghosh , 
Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy and it is they who do the various things which 
are mentioned in the said paragraph , viz . , control the destinies of the nation , 
decide who should be the Prime Minister and who should not be, hound out 
the few honest Congressmen from public life , prop up the Amichand Pyarelals 
and Chamanlals and support them in all their misdeeds and put a premium 
on dishonest businessmen and industrialists . According to him , the other 
three men Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy had nothing to do 
with Amichand Pyarelal, to the best of his knowledge. Therefore, the 
insinuation is a direct charge that he did the various things which are therein 
mentioned and the other three names have been thrown there as canon fodder , 
He, however , added that " Atulya Ghosh , Blju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy " 
might come while considering the words " controls the destinies of the nation , 
even decide who should be the Prime Minister and who should not be , hounda 
out the few Congressmen from public life," but only his name was associated 
with Amichand Pyarelal on a true interpretation of this extract . 

This interpretation given by the petitioner and respondent No. 2 of the 
passage quoted in paragraph 21, of the petition is against the grammatical con 
struction of the words used . In interpreting the words used in the art cle , the 
Court should not be astute to read ir.tr; the words anything more than can be 
attributed to them on its fair and reasonable construction . All the adjectival 
clauses after the word coterie in this article go with the word coterie and 
what is gought to be conveyed is that men like S . K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju 
Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy form the hard core of such coterie . If it was 
the intention of respondent No . 1 to reter these characteristics and attribute 
to the four individuals specified in the Carlier paragraph , there was no necessity 
to refer to the coterie and this hard core. On a normal interpretation , the wordo 
" which controls the destinies of the nation , even decides who should be the 
Prime Minister and who should not be, hounds out the few horiest Congrega 
me: from public life , props 117 the Arichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals and 
supports them in all their misdeeds and puts a premium on dishonest business 
men and industrialists " are the aitributer or characteristics , according to re 
pondent No . 1, of the caterie that exists in the Congress organisation , 

At one stage, the existence of such a coterie was sought to be denied , but 
thc circumstances, brought on record clearly point to the existence of such a 
coterie in the Congress organisation . Respondent No . 1 in his evidence stated 
that coterie means a group of people . The word coterie is not necessarily 
used for a group of persons who are associated for illegal or corrupt practice . 
He said that he was not certain whether the word coterie was used in the 
nense suggested. He used the word coterie in this article because that is how 
Humayun Kabir described the group that existed in the Congress party in his 
letter to the President of the Congress just before he resigned from the Con 
gress. He said that he was not aware that the word coterie carrier the cle 
ment of disapprobation or that it was synonym with the word clique. In the 
Oxford Concise Dictionary the meaning of the word coterie is given as " circle , 
set , of persons associated by exclusive interest ; select circle in goclety ." 
Ordinarily , an element of disapprobation is , therefore , not Inherent in the word 
coterie . 


It appears from newspaper reports that are brought on record that the pre 
in this country used to take notice of the existence of a syndicate in the Con 
gress , The weekly Current in its issue dated February 4 , 1967 published a 
report in connection with the election of Prime Minister by the party in power , 
vit ., the Congress in the Central Government. The relevant extract thereof is 


5072 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II – 
= - . 
Ex, 156 . This report inter alia purports to contain a report of a statement 
made by respondent No. 2 . In this report it is stated ; " We all support her 

(Mrs . Gandhi ) as Prime Minister . He ( Respondent No. 2 ) said : By " We all 
hę presumably mcant all the members of the famous syndicate ," A little 
later in this report , it is stated that respondent No. 2 " has not only definitely 
aşserted the existence of the syndicate but has claimed that President Kamraj 
is one of its members . Whcther he is or he is not, Mr. Atulya Ghosh certainly 
is . Mr. Patil, Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Sanjiva Reddy could be described as the 
hard core of the syndicate . But uspürently , Mr. Patil and Mr. Ghosh have 
spoken in different terms,” The truth of the statements in this report (Ex , 
156 ) is not established and this extract was exhibited only for the purpose of 
showing that a report of the type siated in the extract was published in the 
issue of Current dated February 1, 1967. This extract undoubtedly shows list 
the reporter of the weekly Current noted the existence of a syndicate in the 
Congress , the cxistence of which , according to him was also definitely asserted 
by respondent No . 2 . 

It also appears , as stated by respondent No. 2 in his evidence , that even a 
headline was published in the issue of Statesman dated March 10 , 1967 to the 
effect : " The syndicate snatches back the initiative Intervention in leadership 
issue fails to help . Respondent No . 2 admits that he must have seen such a 
headline in this issue of the Statesman . This report and evidence, undoubtedly , 
go to show that some of the newspapers in this country used to describe a 
group of prominent leaders in the Congress organisation as " syndicate ." 

When the attention of respondent No. 2 was drawn to these extracts, he said : 
The Communist papers and fellow travellers used the word Syndicato so often 
that once he himself said in a public meeting that there is nothing like a syndi 
cate , but there is a majority of the Congress Working Committee which is 
popularly called " Congres High Command ." He gave the names of about a 
dozen persons including Mr. Kumraj, himself , Mr. Sanjiva Reddy , Mr. Atulya 
Ghosh , Mr, Nijalingappa , Mr, Michanlal Sukhadia , Mr. C . B . Gupta , Mr. D . P . 
Mishra and others . He said that if they called these men as Syndicate , he did 
not mind accepting that word . 

The report of these statements made by respondent No. 2 at an interview 
with the correspondent of Times of India is published in the issue of Times 
of India dated January 16 , 1967. Ex. 147 is the relevant report in Times 
of India in connection with the statement made by respondent No. 2 at 
this interview . That it is a sllystantially correct report of what he stated ut 
the intcrview , is admitted in evidence. The report in Ex . 147 is headed "Key 
Role seen for Syndicate " . This report shows that respondent No . 2 at the 
intervicw stated that the syndicate included Congress President Kamraj 
and that it would play a positive role in electing the next Prime 
Minister . At this interview the reporter put one of the questions to res . 
pondent No, 2 to the effect : " You ( respondent No. 2 ) are mentioned as being 
an important member of the Syndicate . First tell me if there is a Syndicate." 
In answer to this question , respondent No. 2 stated : " The Syndicate way an 
expression invented by the communists and fellow - travelling journalists . 
Later , it was used widely . Now we do not mind it . If the Syndicate means 
those who elected two Prime Ministers, Mi. Shastri and Mrs. Indira Gandhi, we 
are proud of it." A further question was asked by the reporter to the effect: 
“ After the elections, do you expect thc Syndicate to play an important role ? " 
The reply of respondent No. 2 was : “ Of course , it will. We are like -minded 
people . Whatever our differences, we can adjust them . If that is what you 
mean by the Syndicate , it will have a wholesome influence of choosing a candi 
date who will ensure the continued good administration of the country." 

This evidence leads to the conclusion that there is a group amongst the 
leaders of the Congress organisation which , in the public , was described as the 
Syndicate . That respondent No, ? hüd no objection to adopting such a word 
1s apparent from the interview that he gave to the reporter of the Times of 
(ndia . It is this Syndicate which respondent No. 1 in his evidence has describ 
ed as a coterie in the Congress organisation . Thus there is a group of 
leaders in the Congress organisation which in the press was popularly called 
Syndicate and which respondent No . 1 in the article (Ex . 57) described as 
coterie , 


On a plain and ordinary reading of the words used in article ( Ex , 57 ) . 
one will have to strain too much the meaning of the words used to come to the 
conclusion that the words " which controls the destinies of the nation , even 
decides who should be the Prime Minister and who should not 


- - - - - - - 


- - - 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5073. 
-- - - - - -- 

- - - -- - 

- - - - - - - 
be, hounds out the few honest Congressmen from public life , props up 
the Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals and supports them in all their mis 
deeds and puts a premium on dishonest businessmen and industrialists " are the 
attributes of men like S , K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva 
Reddy . By the words used , respondent No . 1 has described these to be the 
characteristics or the attributes of the coterie that existed in the Congress . 
However , respondent No . 1 has clearly stated that there is a hard core of ihris 
colerie and inen like S , K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva 
Reddy form the hard core . Even if the words used are open to two reason 
able constructions, the suggested on behalf of the pctitioner and the other: 
suggested on behalf of respondent No . 1, the one suggested by respondent 
No. 1 will have to prevail having regard to the principles which govern the 
trial of an election petition . 

The question then arises whether the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the 
petition is a publication of a statement of fact or a publication of an expression 
of opinion , as contended on behalf of respondent No. 1. The passage quoted 
shows that respondent No. 1 by using those words positively asserted the exist 
ence of a coterie . He in this passage described its attributes, dominating posi 
tion and its characteristics and activities . Simply because the statement is 
made about a group of persons, it connot cease to be a publication of a state 
ment of fact and be regarded as a mere expression of opinion . The contention 
or: behalf of respondent No. ! that a ger.eral statement about a number of per 
sons is not a statement, of fact, that in order to be a statement of fact, it must 
refer to an individual cannot be accepted . 

Reliance was placed on the case of Ells v . National Union of Conservative 
and Constitutional Association , ( 1900 ) 109 L . T . J . 493 which is referred to by : 
the Supreme Court in the case of Kumara Nand v . Brijmohan Lal Sharma , 
A . I. R . 1907 Supreme Court 808 at 810 . The actual report of this case is not 
produced but only a reference made thereto in the above case is relied upon . 
As pointed out by the Supreme Court , the facts of this case cannot be ascer 
tained with sufficient clarity and also it is equally difficult to find out the 
ratio of the case from the reference n ade by the Supreme Court. This case 
does not lay down any general proposition , as sought to be contended on behalf 
of respondent No. 1 , that a general statement about a number of persons can 
104 be regarded as a statement of fart or that in order to be a statement of fact , 
it inust necessarily refer to an individual and not to a group of persons. 

The point then for determination is , are the statements of fact made in 
the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition false ? Respondent No. 2 was 
asked in his cvidence - in - chief to enumerate all the false statements in Ex . 57 
in relation to his personal character and conduct and , according to him , the 
following statements in Ex . 57 are false statements in relation to his per 
sonal character and conduct . 
( 1 ) S . K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy . . . . repre 

sent the most rcactionary and degenerate elements in the ruling 

party . 
( 2 ) These min . , , . . . prop up the Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals 

and support them in all their misdeçds and put a premium on 

dishonest kusinessinen ari industrialists . 
(3 ) Patil is the boss of the political gang that is today taking the coun 

try down the drain and hus defcat at the polls will deal a mortal 

blow to all those who stand for the worst in our public life , 
( 4 ) The Congress Party 125 always been many things to many men , 

but to Patil it has been the instrument to amass personal power 
in the manner of a Tammany Hall boss — power , not for the fulfl 
ment of the aspirations of the masses but to provide help and 

succour to the exploiting classes in the country . 
Though in his evidence respondent No. 2 has enumerated the above state 
ments as false statements in relation to his personal character and conduct, cach 
one of these statements is not relied upon as constituting a corrupt practice so far 
as the present petition is concerned . When these statements were enumerated by 
respondent No . 2 , Mr. Jethmalani on behalf of the petitioner clearly stated that 
for the purpose of this petition , he only relied upon the extract of this article 
which is quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition as an instance of publication of 
a false statement falling within the scope of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act and he 
did not rely upon the other false statements above enumerated as forming part 
of the corrupt practice pleaded in paragraph 2L of the petition , 


Sv. 


, 


5074. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II — . 


- - - 


- - 


- 


The above evidence of respondent No. 2 has not been challenged in cross 
examination and it is, therefore , inter alia clearly established that the words 

These men . . . . . . prop up the Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlalg and support 
- them in all their misdeeds and put a perilum on dishonest businessmen and 
Industrialists are a publiqation of staternents of fact which are false . This 
evidence, however , is given by respondent No. 2 on the basis of the interpreta 
tion that he put upon the words used in the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of 
the petition . 

The words " props up the Amichend Pyarelal, and Chamanlaly and supports 
them in all their misdeeds and puts a premium on dishonest businessmen and 
industrialists " are , as shown carlier, not the attributes of either the hard core 
or of the men who form ihe hard core. These words indicate the characteristics 
or attributes of the coterie and neither the petitioner nor respondent No . 2 

Dor any other witness examined on behalf of the petitioner hag given any 
· evidence to the effect whether such statements about or in relation to the 
coterle are true or false. 

This being the nature of the evidence, the contention on behalf of the peti 
tioner is that even if these words are the attributes or characteristics of the 
coterie , these statements are false because they are false in relation to per 
sons who formed the hard core . Such a contention , in my opinion , overlook . 
the fact that where the statement is made about a class of persons which con 
sists of a fairly good number of persons, it cannot be assumed that what is said 
to be the attribute or characteristic generally of the group or that class is 
necessarily the attribute or characteristic of each one of the members of the 
group . The burden of proving that the statement is false is on the petitioner 
and no evidence is led on his behalf to discharge the onus of proying that 
the statement is false qua or in relation to the coterle . The circumstances 
which I will presently consider in relation to the belief entertained by res 
podent No. 1 about the coterie may go to show that to a person not very 
favourably inclined or disposed to Congress, It may appear that in the case of 
some of the persons occupying prominent and important position in Congress, 
allegations of corruption and favouritism were publicly made ; that such allega 
tions against a few of them are proved , while a few of them resigned from 
position or office when prima facie enquiry into the correctness of those alle 
gations was contemplated . 

In order to constitute a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) , one of the 
essential ingredients to be established by the petitioner is that respondent No . 
1 either believed the statement of fact published by him to be false or did not 
believe it to be true. No such averment is to be found in paragraph 2L which 
was introduced pursuant to the order made on Chamber Summons on July 
14, 1967. It is not even pleaded in paragraph . 2L that the averments thereln 
made constitute a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) , No 
duch averment about the requisite belief is to be found either in the affidavit 
in support of the Chamber Sunimons dated July 4 , 1967 for amendment or 
in the affidavit in support of the amendment dated July 19 , 1967. 

That this is an essential ingredient of a corrupt practice required to be 
pleaded 19 evident from the case of Devalah v . Nagappa and others , A . I. R . 
1965 Mysore 102. In that case, such an averment about the requisite belief 
on the part of the candidate was missing in the petition and it was held that 
dn the absence of such an averment, the material facts stated in the election 
petition , assuming all of them to be true , do not make out a corrupt 
practice . When such is the position , the Court ought not to raise an jogue 
on the facts alleged nor should it permit the petitioner to adduce evidence on 
- that aspect of the case . Any amount of evidence cannot be a good substitute 
for want of necessary pleadings . 

That this is an essential requirement of a pleading is also evident from the . 
case of Sheopal Singh v . Ram Pratap , A . I. R . 1964 Supreme Court 677. The 
contention raised in that case was that the petitioner had not joined as respond 
ent another candidate against whom allegations of corrupt practice were made 
in the petition . Hariram was a candidate against whom certain allegations were 
made in the petition and he was not made a party to the peti 
tion , Section 82 of the Act required that a petitioner shall join as respondent to 
his petition any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice 
- are made in the petition , Section 83 of the Act inter alia provided that if 
the provisions of section 82 have not been complied with , the Election Com 
miation shall dismiss the petition . In view of these provisions, the contention 
In that case was that as allegations of corrupt practice were made against 
Harlram who was a candidate and as he was not made a party to the petition , 


SEC . 3 ( 11 ) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5075 


. = . = 
the petition should be dismissed in limine. Such a contention was not found 
favourable by the Supreme Court on the ground that there wa , no averment 
made in the petition that Hariram believed those statements to be false or did 
not believe them to be true. The Supreme Court took the view that in the 
absence of such an averment, it could not be held that there a any allegation 
of any corrupt practice within the meaning of Section 82 ( b ) of the Act against 
Hariram . In that event, as there was no allegation of corrupt practice against 
Hariram , the penal provisions of section 85 of the Act were not attracted . This 
decision undoubtedly shows that having regard to the view therein taken an 
averment about the belief of a candidate that the statement published by him 
is false or he did not believe it to be true, is essential and in the absence of 
such an averment, in the petition , there is no plea in the petition that a corrupt 
practice is committed by the candidate . This decision , therefore , shows that 
there is no proper averment in paragraph 2L of the petition as regards tho 
commission of a corrupt practice , as required by section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. 

Because of such a contention in the course of the argument, on November 20, 
1967, an application was made on behalf of the petitioner for an amendment of 
the petition . By that application the petitioner sought to add at the end of 
paragraph 2L of the petition the following words: — 
" The first respondent knew that the allegations mentioned above and 

forming part of the said Buty article were false. He did not believe 
them to be true. This attack on the personal character of the 
second respondent was calculated to impair the election prospects 

of the second respondent and advance his own " . 
This application for amendment was argued on behalf of the petitioner by 
Mr. Jethmalani during the course of his final reply . I rejected this application 
by my order dated December 21, 1967 stating that the reasons for such rejection 
would be given in the final judgment. 

The contention on behalf of the petitioner to that an omission to plead in 
the election petition that respondent No . 1 either believed the statements quoted 
in paragraph 2L of the petition to be false or did not believe them to be true 
was merely a formal detect through oversight and could be cured by an amend 
ment at any stage of the trial of the petition . The argument on behalf of the 
petitioner was that the Court has always the power to permit the petitioner to 
cure the detect when an imperfect cause of action has been pleaded 

A large number of cance were cited in support of the contentions urged on 
behalf of the petitioner and reference may be made to a few of the leading cases 
referred to 

In Harish Chandra Bajpat and another v , Trilokt Singh and another , A . I. R . 
1957 Supreme Court 444 , after exhaustively discussing the provisions of the 
statute , the Supreme Court summed up the position thus ; ( 1 ) Under Section 
83 ( b ) the Election Tribunal has power to allow particular , in respect of illegal 
or corrupt practices to be amended , provided the petition itselt specifles the 
grounds or charges and this power extends to Dermitting new instances to be 
given , ( 2 ) The Tribunal has poner under Order 6 Rule 17 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure to order amendment of . petition , but that power cannot be exercised 
so as to permit new grounds or charges to be raised or to alter its character 
as to make it in substance a new petition , if a fresh petition on those allegations 
will then be barred 

In S . M . Banerji y . Sri Krishna Aggarwal, 22 Ylection Law Reports 64 it to 
laid down that within the limits prescribed by the Supreme Court in Harish 
Chandra Bajpai , case , the discretionary jurisdiction of the Tribunals and courte 
to amend the pleadings is 24 extensive as that of a civil court and that the same 
well settled principler laid down in the matter of amendments to the pleading 
in a suit should regulate the exercise of the power of amendment by the Tribu 
nals or the Courts , The Courts and Tribunals are constituted to do justice bet 
ween the parties within the confines of statutory limitation , and undue emphasis 
on technicalities or enlerging their wope would cramp their powers , diminish 
their effectiveness and defeat the very purpose for which they are constituted . 

These principles laid down in S . M . Banerji s case were again reiterated in 
the case of Bhim Sen v . Gopali and others, 22 Election Low Reports 288 . 

Reliance was placed on behalf of the petitioner on the case of A . K . Gupta 
and Sons v . Damodar Valley Corporation , A . I. R . 1967 Supreme Court 96 . 
is a case dealing with an application for amendment of a plaint in a suit and by 

This 
the proposed amendment, no cause of action wax sought to be modified , altered or 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


5076 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARYIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II - - . 

- - - 
enlarged . The only amendment made was in the prayer clause to ask for a 
decrec for the contract money or such other amount as was to be found due : 
on proper account being taken . This casc relates to an amendment of a prayer 
clause in a plaint in a suit and will not be of much assistance for considering : 
an application for amendment of an election petitioh , 
13th Jan , 1968 . 

In Srirangan Chettiar vs. Sorham Pillai, A . I. R . 1935 Madras, 202, while con 
sidering an application for amendment for adjudication under the Provincial . 
Insolvency Act , the Court held that the omission of the words " with intent ta . 
defeat and delay his creditors " in the petition for adjudication was merely a 
formal defect arising from the omission of the certain words as the act of in - . 
solvency was clearly set out and the amendment to include those words should 
be allowed . The Court approved of the observation of Lopes L . J . in Weldon v . 
Neal ( 1897 ) 1 Q . B . D . 394 , where it is stated : “ however a ncgligent or careless the 
first omission and however late the proposed amendment, the amendment should 
be allowed if it can be allowed without injustice to the other side." 

In Gangamal Ramchand v . Hongkong & Shanghat Banking Corporation , 
( 1950 ) 52 Bom . L . R . 377 , this Court helt that it is open to the Court to allow 
a plaint to be amended so that it should disclose a cause of action . The Court 
has taken the view that where a plaint discloses an imperfect or defective cause 
of action , an amendment application to make the cause of action complete and 
to remove the defect ought to be allowed . 

These cases show that while considering the application for amendment, the 
Court has to use discretionary power . Normally , when the application for 
amendment is to cure a formal defect, the Court will ordinarily allow an appli -- 
cation for amendment. The Court has cyen power to allow amendment when 
the pleading originally filed does not disclose the cause of action and the appli -- 
cation for amendment is made with the object of perfecting an imperfect or 
defective cause of action . The exercise of this discretion , however , will depend 
upon the facts of each cuse . Such discretion has to be exercised in consonance 
with the well recognised judicial principles , 

This is the fifth application for amendment of this petition . In paragraph 
2J of the petition , wherein reference has been made to false statements in re 
lation to personal character and conduct of respondent No . 2 . The Petitioner: 
has referred to about 34 issues of the Daily Maratha . The dates of these issues : 
of Maratha arc set out in paragraph 2J . But the statements which , according 
to the petitioner , constituted the corrupt practice were neither set out in the 
petition nor annexed thereto . Round about the time when this pctition WAS 
placed on Board for settling the issues , by my order dated July 3 , 1967, the 
petitioner was permitted by annexure Ex . E to the petition , to set out parti 
cular reports in the issues of Maratha , relied upon , as constituting the corrupt 
practicc . It may be noted that on the date when that order was passed , the time 
to file an independent petition for challenging the election was time barred . 

The second application for amendment was made by Chamber Summons 
dated July 4 , 1967. By this Chamber Summons, the petitioner wanted to add 
paragraphs 2K and 2L to the petition . Paragraph 2L deals with the corrupt: 
practice alleged to be committed by respondent No . 1 by publishing his article 
in the issue of Blitz ciated November 5 , 1966 . By my order dated July 14 , 1967 
that application was granted , 

The third application for amendment to the petition was made on Septem -. 
ber 12 , 1967, during the course of the hearing of this petition , while evidence 
was being led . By my order dated September 15 , 1967, for the reasons therein .. 
stated . that application was partly allowed, 

The fourth application for amendment of the petition was made during 
the course of the hearing of the petition . By that application , the petitioner" 
desired to delete some of the items that were incorporated in Ex . E to the 
petition , pursuant to the Order dated July 3 , 1967. In Ex , E the petitioner : 
referred to about 50 items of Reports of news- items, editorials etc., in or about 
34 issues of Maratha , By this application , the petitioner desired to delete 28 
items out of the said 50 items. That application was granted and thercafter only 
22 items of publications in Maratha were relied upon a $ constituting corrit 
practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the said Act . 

This is the Aſth application for amendment and it is necessary to consider 
the stage at which this application is made . The election in this constituericy 
was held on February 21 , 1967 and the result was declared on February 24 , 
1967. This petition was presented by the petitioner for declaring the election 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5077 
= _ 

= - - - - -- --- - - - - - - - - - - . - - -. . — ... - - : - - - -- = 
of respondent No. 1 void on April 7. 1937 . On August 24,t 1967, the actual 
hearing of this pctition commenücd vil che next day the Court starled taking evi 
dence and it was continued from day to day thcreafter . During the course of 
this hearing on September 12 , 1967, the third application for amendment of the 
pțiilion , which is relerred to above , was made. While that application was 
argued , the jicceseity of having such ai avernient in the petition was canvassed 
at considerable length but having regard to the nature of the pleadings then 
existing in respect of that application , I held that the requisite averments re 
garding the belief were tlie : :: in respect on the ameiamerit asked for. Thereafter 
the evidence lid on behalf of the petitioner was "ontinued and on October 6 , 
1967 the petitioner closed his case . From and after October 9, 1967 evidence on 
behall of respondent No . 1 was taken and the last witnesz on behalf of respon 
dent No. 1 was examined on October 24 , 1967. Then the October Vacation in 
tervened and on the re -opening of the Court on November 6 , 1967, the argu 
ments on behalf of respondent No . 1 commenced . On November 7, 1967 Mr. 
Porus Mchla , the Counsel for respondent No. 1, fully argued the question as re 
gards the 11 : $ sity oL suici an averment in ihe petitio :1, and the consequences 
of an omission of such an averment in the petition . It was thercafter on Novem 
ber 20 , 1967 Chat this application for amendmcnt was made . On November 24 , 
1967, the arguments on behalf of respondent No. 1 were over and on that day , 
Mr. Jethmalani tlie Counsel for the Petitioner started his reply . In the course 
of this final reply , on December 13 , 1967 Mr. Jethmalani pressed this application 
for consideratjun by the Court. These facts go to show that the present appli 
cation was made at a very late stage in the trial of this clection petition . 

This application is for annondment in paragraph 27 of tlic petition , which was 
introduced in the pelition , pursuant to the order passed by me on July 14 , 1967 
allowing the Chamber Summons of the Petitioner valed July 4 , 1967. In the 
alldayit all support of that Chamber Summons declared on July 4 , 1967, the 
petitioner stated that both hercre and after the filing of the petition , an inten 
Slve investigation was carried on by him as also hy respondent No. 2 and the 
facts sought to be introduced by the addition of paragraphs 2K and 2L were 
gathered only during the last week , i.e . during the last weelt of June 1967. In 
this affidavit in support of the Chamber Summons, the petitioner had no where 
stated or otherwise suggesicct that when this election petition was filed , he was 
aware of this article published by respondent No. 1 in the issue of Blitz dated 
November 5 , 1967, that he had given instructions to his Counsel about this article 
when the petition was drafted . It may ba that probably the petitioner had not 
then with him . a copy of the relevant issue of the Blitz wherein the article was 
published , 

- The evidence of the petitioner , however , shows that he had read the article 
Ex . 57 for the first time on November 6 , 1967, but the relovant issue of Blitz 
was not in his possession when the petition was fled . After this petition was 
fled , he was making a search of the reports published in the newspapers of the 
specches , of the writings of and the interviews given by respondent No. 1. At 
that time, he had a hazy recollection that respondent No. 1 had written on 
article of the type that was published in the issuc of Blitz dated November 5 , 
1967. He came across this issue of Blitz while maling a search . In his cross 
examination , he admitted that he had not forgotten about this article when this 
election petition was Nied . He has not referred to this article in his petition 
becausc he had not with him the copy of the Blitz wherein the article was pub 
lished . At that time, he had the recollection of nature of the allegations made 
against respondent No. 2 . He said that he informed his Counsel about these 
allcgations which wcre published in the Blitz . It was for his Counsel to decide 
whether to incorporate these allegations in tlie petition or not . He was unable to 
give any ricason why his Counsel did not incorporate these allegations in the 
petition , when it was originally find . Ha fuithot says that he personally traced 
this issue of Blitz wherein the article appeared in the last week of June 1967. 
After securing this issue of B ! it , he showed it to his Counsel and thereafter 
made an applicaticn for amendment of the petition by Chamber Summons 
dated July 4 , 1967. He said that he did not ask respondent No. 2 or any of his 
representatives to make a search about this article . When his attention was 
drawn to the averments made in the andavit dated July 4 , 1967, in support 
of the Cheiler Summons, in connection with the intensive search , he said 
that this investigation was done by him and respondent No. 2 independently . 
Neither respondent No. 2 no : his representative drew his attention to this 
article after the petition was Aled . A reference to the averments in paragraph 
24 of the petition was actually made in the written statement filed by respon 
dent No. 2 on July 1 , 1967. When the petitioner was asked whether it w29 
after these averments in the written statement of respondent No. 2 that he 
thought of appíying for the amendment of the election petition , he said that it 


5098 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II 


is not true that it was only after the written statement of respondent No. 2 
was Aled or prepared that he thought of applying for the amendment of the 
election petition . He also says that it was not true that he had merely a hazy 
recollection of this article when the petition was filed , that he was fully aware 
of this article at the time when the election petition was filled and that his 
evidence - in - chief about his hazy recollection was not correct. This evidence 
of the petitioner seems to suggest that it is the petitioner s case that he found 
this article Ex . 57 as a result of independent search made by him and he made 
an application for amendment for introducing paragraphs 2L of his own . 


The evidence of respondent No. 2 in this behalf, however, shows to the 
contrary . Respondent No. 2 in his evidence stated that he came to know for 
the first time of the article Ex . 57 in the issue of Blitz dated November 5 , 
1966 round about the time when the petition was filled . He said that after the 
petition was Aled and before he filed his written statement Mr. Patkar, his 
son - in -law , showed him a note about the contents of this article . He also says 
that before the petition was Aled he had a talk with the lawyer for the petition 
er about Aminchand Pyarelal to whom a reference has been made in the article 
Ex . 57. He did not read the whole of the petition before it was filed but his 
son - in - law and the Petitioner told him about the points that were in the petition . 
He further says that when he fled his written statement in the petition , he 
found that the petitioner had not mentioned anything in the petition about 
Aminchand Pyarelal. That was a mistake, and that is why he put those allega , 
tions in his written statement. When he filed his written statement, he quoted 
an extract from the article of respondent No. 1 in Blitz dated November 5 , 1966 . 
He knew that when the issues were being settled in this petition , on his behalf 
an issue was sought to be raised about a corrupt practice alleged to be committed 
by respondent No. 1 by publishing this article Ex . 57. As such an issue was 
not raised by the Court at his instance, he suggested to the petitioner to apply 
for an amendment of the petition , for incorporating paragraph 2L . His further 
cross -examir ation shows that even during the election period, his attention was 
drawn to this article Ex . 57. He was asked questiong whether he then thought 
it necessary to go to his lawyers in connection with what was stated in this 
article . He said that when his attention was drawn to some part of article Ex . 
57, he did not immediately go to his lawyers to take action against respondent 
No. 1 because at that time he was busy with his election and it was not possi. 
ble for him to go to the lawyers at that time. However , after the election petition 
was filed, he asked for full article written by respondent No. 1. He found that 
many damaging things had been stated against him by respondent No, 1 and that 
there was no reference to this article in the election petition filed in the Court, 
He, therefore , showed this article to his lawyer and asked him to incorporate it 
in his written statement. 


This evidence of the petitioner and respondent No. 2 shows that at the time 
when the Chamber Summons dated July 4 , 1967 was Aled by the Petitioner for 
Introducing inter alia paragraph 2L in the petition , after the period prescribed 
for Aling an election petition , the petitioner deliberately suppressed from the 
Court şeyeral essential facts which were then within his knowledge and were 
relevant in councction with the application for an amendment of the election 
petition , especially when the application was made after the expiry of the 
prescribed period for Alling an election petition . In the affidavit in support of 
the Chamber Summons, he did not disclose that he was fully aware of this 
article at the time when the petition was Aled that he had already given instruc 
tions to his Counsel to incorporate this plea in the petition , that he wag unable 
to give any reason why a plea in connection with this article was omitted in 
the original petition in spite of instructions to the Counsel, At the trial, his 
evidence that he independently found this article is far from truth . The ovi 
dence of respondent No. 2 shows that it was at his instance that the Chamber 
Summons dated July 4 , 1967 was taken out as I was not prepared to raise an 
issue for commission of a corrupt practice by publication of such an article on 
the basis of an averment in the written statement of respondent No. 2 . Such 
conduct on the part of the petitioner disentitles him to ask for a discretionary 
relief, especially when the application is made at such a late stage after the 
point was fully argued on behalf of respondent No . 1 in the course of Anal 
address . The application for amendment was, therefore, rejected for these 
reasong, 


Even though tiiere is no proper averment about the requisite belief on the 
part of respondent No. 1 in connection with the publication of article Ex, 67, as 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5079 


the evidence is led in this case in relation to such belief, I wilį discuss the evi 
dence hereafter . 

Respondent No . 1 in his evidence has clearly stated that it was far from his 
mind at any time during the election campaign that respondent No . 2 had prop 
ped up Amichand Pyarelal and Chamanlal. So also it was far from his mind 
that respondent No. 2 had supported these two firms in all or any of their mis 
deeds. He did not believe in such a thing, He did not believe at any time that 
respondent No. 2 had propped up or supported the misdeeds of any firm with a 
shady record or reputation other than Amichand Pyarelal and Chamanlal. This 
evidence , therefore, can lead to only one conclusion that respondent No. 1 never 
believed that respondent No. 2 propped up Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals 
or supported them in their misdeeds or put a premium on dishonest businessmen 
and Industrialists. 

The attributes or characteristics set out in the passage quoted in paragraph 
2L of the petition are qua the caterie in the Congress . The contention on behalf 
of respondent No. 1 is that there were some important and prominent leaders in 
the Congress organisation , who propped up the firms like Amichand Pyarelal 
and Chamanlal and put a premium on dishonest businessmen and industrialists . 
Qua some important and prominent leaders in Congress , circumstances , exista 
in this connection which need consideration , 


Respondent No . 1 in his evidence stated that in Article Ex, 57 he said that 
within the Congress Party , there is a group of persons, who through the Con 
gress Party control the destiny of the nation . He has expressed his opinion 
based on common knowledge that there is hard core of people comnion ) y 
known as syndicate . He said in this article that such persons should be defeat 
ed at the election . He said this coterie , that is the large group of Congressmen 
hound out honest Congressmen from the Congress Party . This was written in 
the contest of many defections from the Congress Party in Bengal, Bihar and 
elsewhere . He had in mind important Congress workers such as Mr. Ajoy 
Mukherji, Mr. Mahamaya Prasad Sinha and Mr. Humayun Kabir . According 
to him , this group supports dishonest businessmen and in the article , he gave 
the names of two firms, which were very much in news in those days , and held 
them out as symbols of corrupt firms. That is why he says that he referred to in 
the article " Amichand Pyarelals and Chamanlals" . Amichand Pyarelal is the 
name of the firin , but these firms are referred to as the symbols . Between 
March and September 1968 , these two firms were the subject of major contro 
versy in Parliament. Specifically allegations were made against Mr. Subramaniam , 
the then Minister in charge of Iron & Steel in connection with Amichand Pyarelal. 
The main brunt of allegations against Amlchand Pyarelal was in regard to the 
licences and import of steel. The firm of Chamanlal was also in the news with 
regard to the licences and the name of Mr. Nanda was associated with this 
firm . The overall impression then created was that the poworful men inside 
the Congress and inside the Government supported such firms. When the 
Prime Minister was going to appoint a Commission to go into the deeds of such 
firms like Amichand Pyarelal, Mr. Morarka, a prominent Congressman and 
Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee in Parliament suggested that the 
Prime Minister should be careful while selecting the Members of the Commis 
sion because these persons were powerful and were capable of buying up or 
influencing the Members of the Commission . He said that he has written the 
Words quoted in para 2L of the Petition because the businessmen and the indus 
trialists secure the support of the Congress Party and in turn support the Con 
gress Party . 

In his evidence , he has referred to a few prominent Congressmen against 
whom allegations of corruptions, nepotism or favouritism were openly and 
publicly made. He said that over a period of years allegations were made 
against top Congressmen of being involved with dishonest businessmen . He 
has given a few instances of such allegations. He said that a Commission of 
Enquiry presided over by Mr. S . R . Das , the former Chief Justice of the Supreme 
Court was appointed to enquire into the allegations made against Mr. Pratap 
Singh Kairon , at one time the Chief Minister of Punjab and that Mr. Pratap 
Singh Kairon had to resign as Chief Minister as a result of the findings of the 
Commission against him . Similarly serious allegations were made against Mr. 
Bakshi Gulam Mohammad , at one time the Chief Minister of Jammu & Kashmir , 
a Commission of Enquiry presided over by a Judge of the Supreme Court was 
appointed to go into the allegations and it was found that a number of charges 
against him were proved . He also mentioned that there were allegations made 
against Mr. Biju Patnaik They were inquired into by a Sub - Committee of 
the Members of the Cabinet, presided over by Mr, M . C . Chapla . As a result 


5080 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ PART II 
- . . 

- - - - - - -- -- - --- - -- - - ---- 
this enquiry , Mr. Biju Patnaik had to resign as a Chairman of the Siate Plan 
ning soard . He also said that allcgations were made against Mr. Bicon Mitra , 
at one time the Chief Minister of Orlssa . They were also enquired into by the 
Cabinct Sub - Committee presicí d UV by Tvr, M . C , Chagla and consequently 
Mr, Mitra rosigned as the Chief Minister of Orissa . He said charges were made 
against Mrs , Tarkęsliwari Sinha , the then Deputy Minister in the Central Go 
vernment. The Attorney General of India investigated into these charges and 
subsequently she was dropped from the Government. He said that the Supreme 
Court of India in one or iis judgment passed certain strictures against Mr, 
Sanjiya Reddy , the then Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh with regard to the 
licences given to certain transport operators . In view of those observations Mr. 
Sanjiva Reddy resigned as the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh . He also said 
that charges were made against Mr. T . T . Krishnamachari. Rather than having 
then investigated by the Attorney General of India , as suggested by the Prime 
Minister , he chose to resign . All these were to common knowledge and had 
created an impression amongst the public that a section of the leaders of the 
Congress was supporting businessmen and industrialists who were not honest, 
This evidence of respondent No. 1 has not been challenged in cross -examination 
and so far as the present petition is concerned , this evidence has to be accopted 
es uncontroverted , 

It should , however , be remembered that I am not investigating in this peti 
tion the truth or correctness of various statements made against important leaders 
of the Congress and I am not really concerned with the correctness or otherwise 
of the allegations so made. These leaders arc not partics to these proceedings 
and none ol them has even appeared as i witness . I ani only concerned in this 
case, whether material existed which permitted respondent No. 1 to entertain a 
bonálide bclief of the type he alleges he had . 

So far as the firms of Amichand Pyarelal and Chamanlal are concerned , 
overwhelming documentary evidence in the form of dobates in the Lok Sabha and 
the reports thereoť in the newspaper are produced , which go to show that several 
dealings of these firms were on more than one occasion severely criticised by 
Members of Parliament. The Public Accounts Committec (hereinafter referred 
to as " PAC " ) of Parliament has gone into the dealings of the firm of Amichand 
Pyarelal and its associate concerns. This Committee on April 21, 1966 presented 
to Parliament its 50th Report in connection with those dealings. This report un 
questionably shows that for a number of years , the Arm of Amichand Pyarelal 
and its associate concerns went on receiving favourable treatment in its dealings 
with the Government and its offices . Several extracts from this report are ten 
dered as exhibits to show tho findings of the PAC in respect of several dealingg. 
of this firm and its associate concerns . 


Ex . 133 ( an extract from the 58th Report of the PAC ) shows that Messrs A . P . J . 
Private Limited - -an associate concern of Amichand Pyarelal imported two con 
signments of M . S . Sheets of CIF value of Rs. 2 , 15 ,094 and Rs. 7 ,32, 165 at Cal 
cutta , without uny import licence . The PAC also found that in quite a few 
cases , these parties imported materials either without any valid licence or without 
any licence at all. The above two consignments were considered 23 unauthorised 
imports . However , merely on the flrms undertaking to re-export the entire con 
signment to the country of origin , the Iron & Steel Controller granted clearance 
permits (without exchange control copies for remittance ) for clearance from Port 
and storage in their godown for onward re - export . The Sub - Committee was 
surprised that such unauthorised imports have mainly been made by the same 
group of Arms and they had been condoned by the Office of the Iron & Stecl Con 
troller . How this firm failed to carry out its oblig ilion to re - export faithfully is 
Indicated by the subsequcnt exhibits, 


Ex . 134 ( an extract from the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows thatAP, J . Put , 
Ltd , imported materials worth Rs. 9 , 00, 000 without any import licence . When 
this unauthorised material was caught by the Customs, the party was plile to get 
il relcased by getting a Customs Clearance Permit from the fron & Steel Con 
troller. What is most objectionable in this case is that the Iron and Steel Controller 
disregarded the views of the Government Solicitor and the Assistant Director of 
Shipping and issued the Customs Clearance Permit in favour of the party . But for 
this Custom Clearance Permit. the goods would have been confiscated by the Cus 
toms and action would have beca takon against the Party under the Import and 
Export Control Act , 1947 . Another disguicting feature of this case is that even 
when the party undertook to re - export the material imported unauthorisedly they 
made a false declaration regarding the weight of the material eto, and an Mcer 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5081 

- - - - = - - - - - 

.. . . . . . . . . 
of the Iron & Steel Control Organisation gave i false certificate certifying ac 
curacy of llie quantity declared . 

It was the practice of the Government to permit import of materials on the 
basis 0 . barter deal by taking and enforcing Bank guarantees from the parties . 
Ex , 135 (an extract of the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows that there were 
several failures in laking and enforcing Bank guarantees in this barter deals 
entered into hy the firm oſ Amichand Pyarelal. This extract shows that firstly 
the Departincnt of Iron & Steel wanted to have absolute bank guarantees , but 
the Iron and Steel Controller deduced it to a limited and conditional Bank 
guarantee in consultation with the Solicitors, Secondly , even this limited Bank 
guarantees were relcased by the Controller in driblets , i. e . as and 
when a portion of exports took place . Thirdly , there was a complete 
laxity in thc Once of the Iron and Steel Controller in watching the 
Bank guarantees and get tiny them l enewed in timc. Ultimately , it came 
to this that the limited Prink guarantees were accepted . Even thosc limited Bank 
guarantees were not watched cffectively by the Iron & Steel Controller and they 
cxpircd . The parties have also not l encwcd these Bank guarantees in spite of re 
peated reminders by the Iron & Steel Controller. Thus non - forfeiture of Bank . 
guarantees has resulted in a loss of over Rs. 51 lacs . The Sub - Committee wag 
constrained to observe that the whole scheme of taking Bank guarantces in this 
barter deal was a complete failure and was primarily due to the failure of the 
Ollice of the Iron & Steel Controller . 


Surne cxhibits are tendered to show how this firm or its associate concerns 
ťailed to carry out its export obligations after securing the import licences and 
importing goods thereunder. Ex , 136 ( an extract of the 50th Report of the PAC ) 
shows that Messrs . Khemchand Rajkumar , a sister concern of Messrs. Amichand 
Pyarelal were granted some import licences for importing electroplating plants 
and other materials on their entering into certain export obligations. The Party 
availed of tliis import licence and imported goods thereunder . It however , 
did not complete its export obligations, Against expected exports of Rs. 23 . 93 lacs , 
this party made actual cxports of Rs. 7 : 33 lacs. They did not pay any heed to 
orders of the Office of the Iron & Steel Controller in thiy regard. On the other 
hand , they showed impolite behaviour in correspondence with the Iron & Steel 
Controller. In spite of this , this firm was given not only two industrial licences for 
setting up tin plate plants in 1963 and 1964 but also imported raw material wag 
l eleased even before the plant went in production without asking them to fulfi 
their post obligation export of scmic. 

Ex . 137 ( an extract of the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows that Ms. Ramkişhan 
Kulwantrai, an associate concern of Amichand Pyarelal in or about June 1060 
Secured an import licence worth over Rs . 1 crore from the Iron and Steel Control 
lor without properly satisfying the authorities that there was a valid and firm 
export contract between this party and Hindustan Steel Ltd . Such issue of licence 
was completely in contravention of the instructions of the Ministry of Iron & 
Stce ). The Sub -Committee was not prepared to believe that import licence worth 
over a crore of jupces can be issued at a time to a single party through mistake . 
The result was that even though this party entered into an agreement with Hin 
dustan Steel Ltd , in January 1961 it failed to export any quantity of steel and 
the country suffered a loss of foreign exchange carnings of about one crore of 
rupees , 


Ex . 138 (an cxtract of the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows that no Bank gua 
rantees were taken from Messrs , Surendra Overscas ( sister concern of Amichand 
Pyarcial) in respect of two import licences against which import worth Rs. 43 . 33 
Jacs , were made by them . The Sub - Committee was unable to appreciate why Bank 
guarantee was not taken from the party for the due performance of the export 
obligation . The Sub - Committee noted that while granting three import licences , 
according to the normal procedure, Bank guarantees were taken for fulfilling the 
export obligation . So far as this party was concerned , no Bank guarantee was 
talen and the Sub -Committee observed that it was rcgrettable that both the Iron 
& Steel Controller and the Ministry deviated from the established procedure in 
tliis case . 

Ex . 139 (an extract from the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows how far a num 
ber of years no action was taken against this Arm when they failed to carry out 
their obligations and how the action of black - listing this firm was delaved . The 
Sub - Committce pointed out that one of the main conditions stipulated in the 
Ministry s lctter dated February 2 , 1960 was that the Iron & Steci Controller w ! 


5082 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 10 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 


S 


. 


have no further dealings with the exporters in case of failure to export . In all 
these cases, the parties failed to export either the full quantity contracted for or 
at all . The Sub - Committee regretted to observe that even this stipulation or the 
contract regarding the stopping of dealings was not carried out. For the various 
reasons, no action was taken so far by the Iron & Steel Controller or the Ministry 
against these parties. In view of the fact that the Government were obliged to 
black - list them or suspend the business on a number of occasions, the Sub - Com 
mittee felt that the Iron & Steel Controller should have been careful while enter 
ing into this barter deals involving huge amounts . Even when the failure of the 
parties to fulfil their export obligations took place in 1960 , the Iron & Steel 
Controller issued the show cause notices to them only in April 1964 of which the 
drafting is very poor , The Sub - Committee felt that there was an unduly long 
delay in initiating action against these parties and there was no justification at 
all for this very poor drafting. 


Ex . 141 ( an extract from the 50th Report of the PAC ) shows the comment of 
the Sub -Committee on the circumstances under which the Minister changed his 
previous order in connection with the black - listing of this firm and suspension of 
business therewith . The Ministry of Iron & Steel had for a period of two years 
from July 31, 1963 to July 31, 1965 suspended business with the firm of Amichand 
Pyarelal. This suspension of business related to the disposal of some 700 tons of 
imported round in an irregular manner by Surendra Overseas (an associate of 
M / s , Amichand Pyarelal) . For this irregularity , the Minister had said that the 
firm and its associate concerns should be black - listed under a general order, so 
that the Government Departments and the Government institutions do not deal 
with this firm during the period of black - listing. After such an order by the Minis 
ter , a letter was received from the Iron & Steel Controller, enquiring into the 
matter . This letter was discussed with the Minister and he said that it was not 
his intention to include transport lines within the scope of his order . After reconsi 
deration he decided that it was enough if the order was to suspend dealing with 
Messrs. Surendra Overseas and allied concerns for two years only and 
this order should apply only to the Iron & Steel Controller , The Sub - Committee 
was unable to understand the circumstances under which the Minister changed 
his previous order so soon that the business suspension with Amichand Pyarelal 
group of firms should not be communicated to other Government Departments. 


This report of the PAC had been discussed later on in the Parliament on a 
number of occasions and severe comments have been made by Members of Par 
llament in view of those findings. Fact of black - listing of some firms like Ami 
chand Pyarelal, Khemchand Rajkumar, Ramkishan Kulwantral and J . Kohen R . 
Co., was referred to in the Parliament on May 13 , 1966 and the report of such 
discussion in Parliament was published in the issue of the Times of India dated 
May 14 , 1966 . The relevant extract from the issue of Times of India is at Ex , X - 68 . 


Mr. Subramaniam was the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Iron & Steel 
and the PAC had made adverse comments in connection with revision of the gene . 
ral order of blacklisting against the firm of Amichand Pyarelal and its associate 
concerns. In view of these adverse comments in the report , Mr. Subramaniam 
made a statement in the Lok Sabha on May 17, 1986 and there was some discussion 
in connection with this statement in the Lok Sabha on Ma v 18 . 1966 . A report of 
this discussion in connection with the revision of the suspension order was pub 
lished in the issue of Times of India dated May 19, 1966 - Ex , X -69. In view of 
the statement made by the Minister Mr. Subramaniam . the matter was further 
Inquired into by the PAC and the PAC submitted its 65th Report after enquiry 
on August 3 , 1966 , That report is Ex . 143. In this report, the Sub - Committee again 
examined the question and reiterated their adverse comments that they saw no 
good reason for revision of the earlier general order of black - listing the Arms 
of Amichand Pyarelal and its associate concerns, within such a short time. This 
report shows that the first order of suspension of business was passed by the 
Minietor on or about November 18 , 1962. The order stated that till the matter with 
M / s . Amichand Pyarelal Group is finally settled . no contract of any sort should 
be entered into with them either by Hindustan Steel Ltd , or by the Iron & Steel 
Controller . In view of this order of the Minister, instructions were accordingly 
issued by the Ministry to Hindustan Steel Ltd , as well as the Iron & Steel Contro 
ller for immediate action . When irregularities were committed by M / s . Surendra 
Overseas in connection with the disposal of nearly 700 tons of imported rounds: 
on June 28 . 1963, the Secretary of the Ministry suggested that suspension of busi 
ness dealings with the firm and its allled and associate concerns by the Iron & Steel 
Controller for a period of two years would meet the requirements of the case . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 


9082 


Mr. Subramaniam who was then the Minister in charge did not agrce with this 
suggestion of the Secretary and he passed a general order of suspension of busi 
ness so that the other Government Departments and institutions would not deal 
with these firms. This gencral order of suspension of business was passed by Mr. 
Subramaniam on June 28 , 1963 and it was conyeyed to the Iron & Steel Controller 
on the next day , i.e . on 29th June 1963 . In the course of the enquiry , it was sought 
to be suggested before the Committee that these were merely draft orders and 
not the final orders by the Minister . But the Committee has clearly found that the 
orders of the Minister dated 28th June 1963 were spccifie , complete and final and 
they were convoyed to the Iron & Stcel Controller as such on June 29 , 1963. The 
Committee was unable to accept that those orders were in a draft 
form . In spite of such clcar instructions from the Minister on July 6 , 1963 the 
Deputy Iron & Stecl Controller forwarded a draft of an order in which he proposed 
suspending business dealings with this group of firms but inquiring if the pro 
posed order should cover to re -rolling mills and a shipping concern . The matter 
was re - considered in the Ministry and it was decided on July 12 , 1963 that the 
suspension order should apply to those concerns which dcal primarily in trade 
and commerce . The two re - rolling Mills were accordingly excluded from the 
scope of the suspension order . The revised instructions were issued on July 12 . 
1963 and he was rcquested that the orders regarding the suspension of business 
dealing might be issued immediately and a copy sent to the Ministry . In spite 
of such specif " ilistructions, the Iron & Steel Controller made a second back refe 
rence on July 17 , 1963 inquiring if suspension order was to be applied to A . P . J . 
Lines, which was a shipping concern . This letter from thc Iron & Steel Controller 
should normally have been received by the Ministry within about two days , i.e . 
about 18th or 1.9th of July 1963. It was, howeyer, dealt with the Deputy Secretary 
on July 22 , 1963. Mcanwhile , Mr. Jit Paul a representative of Amichand Pyarelal 
sought and had an interview with the Minister on July 20 , 1963. It was thereafter 
on July 23 , 1963 that the Minister passed his order that the suspension order 
should only be restricted to the Iron and Steel Controller and need not be circu 
lated to all departments. The result of this revision of the order was that no 
action whatsoever was taken against this group of firms in this case . By the order 
dated November 16 . 1962 , the business with this firm was alreacly suspended for a 
period of two years and the effect of the order passed in revision on July 23 , 1963 
was to maintain the same position . The Committee was also surprised how Jit Pal , 
a representative of this firm , came to know of the confidential action of blacklisting 
that was intended to be taken against this firm , The Committee was also surprised 
how in spite of clear and specific orders by the Ministry . the office of the Iron and 
Steel Controller twice referred the matter back to the Ministry . 


This 55th report of the Public Accounts Committee was discussed in Parlia 
ment on August 5 , 1966 and thc report of such discussion in Parliament was pub 
lished in the issue of Times of India dated August 6 , 1966 ( Ex . 70 ) . Thereafter 
Government decided in principle to accept the suggestion of the Public Accounts 
Committee for a high power committec headed by a High Court Judge to investi 
gate the various irregularities by the Steel Ministry in its barter deals with the 
Amichand Pyarelal group and fix the responsibility on the officers concerned for 
these lapses. A report of this decision and the discussion in connection therewith 
was published in the issue of Times of India dated August 10 , 1966 ( Ex . 71) . On 
or about August 10 , 1966 , Mr. Subramaniam made a statement in Lok Sabha in 
connection with this 55th report of the Public Accounts Committee and stated that 
he was sorry that he had misunderstood the trend of the discussion in the House 
on the earlier occasion . The report of this statement of Mr. Subramaniam In Lol 
Sabha was published in the issue of Times of India dated August 11 , 1966 ( Ex . 72 ) . 
A couple of days thereafter, some other serious allegations were made in Parlla 
ment in respect of other dealings or acts by the firm of Amich : Pyarelal group . 
On August 12 , 1966 , a PSP member Mr. Hem Barua alleged that the Amichand 
Pyarelal group had made a contribution of Rs. 7 lacs towards the election funds 
of Mr. Swaran Singh who was Minister for Iron and Steel before Mr. Subrama 
nlam . A little later , shortly before the House adiourned that day , Mr. Swaran 
Şingh made a brief statement in the House emphatically repudiating Mr. Barua s 
charge that he had received a contribution of Rs. 7 Tacs for his election expendi 
ture . He said that he had no elention fund , that no rontribution han been mine to 
his election fund and that the firm in question did not contribute any amount 
through him to any election fund . On that day , in the House Mr. Madhu Limdye, 
a member of the SSP , asked whether Hindustan Aeronautics Titd . had taken up a 
space on highly disadvantageous terms at Steelcrete House, Bombay, a building 
owned by the Amichand Pyarelal group and whether Hindustan Aeronautic , Ltd . 


5084. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART ] I 


= 


= 


had paid Rs. 6 lac s as rent in advance for three years. That allegation was 
replicd to by Mr. Swaran Singh by saying that Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd . might 
have taken these premises , but he had no knowledge about it. It appears from 
the report published in the Times of India dated August 19 , 1966 ( Ex . 74 ) that 
on the previous day in the Rajya Sabha , the opposition repeated the 
charge against the Government of showing unduc favours to Messrs Amichand 
Pyarelal, though it had been blacklisted , On the same day , in the Rajya Sabha a 
question was also raised about big contracts being given to the firm of Mr. Biju 
Patnaik without calling for tenders. That day , Mr. Bhupesh Gupta alleged in 
the Rajya Sabha that the firm of Amichand Pyarelaj had been shown undue fa 
vours by the Government becuuse it was contributing to the Congress party 
funds in the same way as Mr. Mundhra . The same day , Mr. Raj Narain , another 
member of the SSP , made a leference in the Rajya Sabha to the report of the 
Commission of Enquiry into the charges against the late Mr. Pratap Singh Kairon 
and said it had gone into correspondence between Mr. Kairon and Mr. C . Subra 
maniam in February 1963 on the grant of an import licence to the Amichand group . 
Similar allegations wСre made in the Lok Sabha about the communication from 
Mr. Kairon by Mr. Surendranath Dwivedi , a Member of Parliament, on or about 
August 22, 1966 , as appears from the relevant portion of the debates in Lok Sabha 
of that day ( Ex , 144 ) . The allegation made by the Member of Parliament was 
that some higher influence had worked with the Minister and, therefore, he had 
been obliged to change his earlier order . 

The position about the group of firms of Amichand Pyarelal is succinctly 
summed up by Mr. Morarka, a member of the Congress Party and the Chairman 
of the Public Accounts Committee at a speech made by him in Lok Sabha on 
August 22, 1964 , Ex , 145 is the relevant extract of the said speech of Mr. Morarka . 
In the course of this speech he said : - -- 
“ More than 15 ycars have passed since this party came on the scene. During 

these 15 years , the Committee is left with the imprcssion that this 
party had played very sharp tricks on the Government ; they have 
taken very unfair advantage from the Government and the officers . 
During this period of 15 years , what happened . Five Cabinet Ministers 
changed ; four Secretaries changed ; five Iron and Steel Controllers 
changed . There have been ocasions when this firm was put on the 
black list for not less than threc or four times . If you take the Public 
Accounts Committee s reference to the performance of this firm , this 
firm was mentioned for nine times. Then there have been innume 
rable occasions when its offices , ctc . have been raided by the SPE and 
searched . In spite of that, it require the Public Accounts Committee 
and this Parliament to take up this matter and to bring all these 
things to the notice of the pcople . . . . . . The general view is that some 
firms are getting very unfair advantage of the Government, that they 
are prospering and every time they get away with whatever they 
do . . . . . . While I welcome the decision of the Government wholeheart 
edly for the appointment of a Committee of Enguiry I must say one 
thing . . . . . .My request to the Honourable Prime Minister is that when 
they appoint the Committee, it must ensure that they have in their 
Committee people who cannot be approached by anyone. Otherwise , 
the very purpose of this Committee and the desire on the part of the 

Government to have a clean stable would be defeated .” 
It appears from the report in the Times of India dated August 23, 1960 ( Ex . 75 ) 
that on the very day Mr. Morarka made the speech in Lok Sabha , the Prime 
Minister Mrs . Indira Gandhi intervened to announce the Government s decision 
to appoint a high power committee to enguire into all matters relating to the 
controversial steel transactions with a group of Amichand Pyarelal firms which 
will presumably cover both ministerial and official responsibility for any lapseg , 
It appears from this report that some Members of Parliament made veya serious 
allegations against this group of firms, This report shows that Mr. Dwivedi said 
in Parliament that he had in his possession many facts implicating Ministers , 
Secretaries and other officials in relation to the firm which had made at least Rs. 200 
crores and another independent Member of the Parliament Mr. Homi Daji said that 
rupees 29 crores worth of licences were granted to the Amichand Pyarelal group 
over six years in spite of its malpractices . The personnel of this high power 
committee presided over by the former Chief Justice of India Mr. A . K Sarkar wag 
announced in the Rajya Sabha on August 27, 1966 as appears from the report of 
the debates in the Rajya Sabha in the issue of Times of India dated August 28 , 
1980 ( , 76 ) . 


# w3( ii ) ] TH . GALETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 089 
= = - = - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - = = = 
The facts disclosed about the group of firms of Aminchand Pyarelal are so 
eloquent and were given so much prominence in the Parliament as well as in 
the press that respondent No . 2 in his evidence stated : 
" I had the same impression about the firm of Amnichand Pyarelal as the 

Chairman had . I considered that the firn of Amichand Pyarelal 
was not reliable and had committed inany offcnces. It appcared 
from the statement of the Chairman R . R . Morarka that the firm of 
Aminchand Pyarelal continued to prosper from time to time not 
withstanding the change of Cabinet Ministers , Secretaries . The 
problem in this case was how this all happened . It occurred to me 
but it did not occur to me in as dramatic a form as you (Respondent 
No. l s Counsel ) put. It occurred to me that Amichand Pyarelal 
were unreliable and were guilty of misdeeds and they ought not to 
have prospered for such a long time, but that did not pertain to the 
Ministry of which I was in charge . . . . . . . . . . I asked myself the 
question how such a scandalous thing should occur while the Con 
gress party was in power . I could not get a satisfactory answer 
within myself to that question . Even though I was not concerned 
with the Ministry of Ilon and Steel , I did not go into the question 
who were the persons responsible for giving prosperity to Amichand 
Pyarelal, because the Minister concerned was as big a Congressman 
as I am , I do not think that the Ministers in charge of Ministry of 
Iron and Steel were responsible for making Amichand Pyarelal 
prosper . It was not ny business to investigate who were the otcers 

responsible for making Amichand Pyarelal prosperous. " 
Another Arm to which a reference has been made in the passage quoted in 
paragraph 2L of the petition is the firm oť Chamanlal, There happened to be some 
discussion in Lok Sabha on March 24, 1986 about this film of Chamanlal also, Ex . 
132 is the relevant portion of the debatcs in Parliament in connection with the 
Arm of Chamanlal. This report shows that many Members of Parliament have 
taken part in this discussion , but it will suffice for the present purpose if refercnce 
is made to what Mr. Madhu Limaye , a Member of Parliament and Mr. Sacīzin 
Chowdhart, then Finance Minister , said in the course of these debates . Mr. Madhu 
Limaye alleged in Lok Sabha on that day that one Havelira m was the astrologer 
and Prohit of Mr. Nanda , then Home Minister and had got profound relationship 
with him and Mr. L . M , Mishra ; that Haveliram and his sons were cngaged in 
business activities: that they had also connections with the firm of Chămånlal s 
that the Indian Ambassador in Iran repeatedly wrote to the Government that 
something must be done to prevent the theft of foreign exchanges by these firms; 
that this led the Enforcement Directorate of the Finance Ministry to enquire into 
their affairs and conduct raids on the offices of the firms connected with them : that 
Joshi Traders was one of the firms so raided ; that this firm belonged to Haveliram 
and his two sons ; that while the officers of the Enforcement Directorate were 
conducting this raid , they were threatened by Haveliram and his sons by saying 
that the Home Minister was their friend and was in Bangalore ; that as soon as he 
returned from Bangalore , these officers would be suitably dealt with ; that it was 
suggested on behalf of the Home Minister and his Deputy Minister that Chamanlal 
firm should get the facility of declaring its income under Article 68 of the Finance 
Act ; that Mr. Madhu Limaye wanted to know whether it was a fact that one of 
the officers of Incomc Tax Department had searched for and made enquiries about 
alleged deposit of more than 10 lac rupees in the name of Hayeliram . Mr. Sachin 
Chowdhari, then Finance Minister answered the various questions in the House . In 
the course of his reply he stated that in view of certain information received , offi 
ces of Chamanlal Brothers at several places in India were raided by the Special 
Establishment that as a result of information gathered through these raids, it was 
found that Chamanlal Brothers had transacted business in two commodities - one 
was zari which was exported to Hongkong and the other was pepper which was 
Bent to Afghanistan and Iran . The modus operandi was that zari had been over 
valued and in respect of that, certain export connections had been received from 
Government because at that time, the Government was giving Certain concessions 
when zari was exported . The benft which was received was alleged to have 
been received by Chamánlal - the benefit of the export licences on the value of the 
zari. Naturally when the zari was overvalued, the money had to come back , 
Actually , the sale that had been made abroad was at a lower price . In order 
to countervall that there was despatch of pepper . There was undervaluation 
and certain amount of money was countervailed or obtained by that means so 
that the zari business might be balanced . A . a result, what was found was this 
that about Rs. 75 lacs worth of foreign exchange was there in respect of which 


SI 


5086 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KANTINA 25 , 18 , Ja ART ll 
S --- - - - - - = = - 113 - 3 .. . ... 4 ": - : : : : : : : = = * 
there had been bills of exchange drawn through Banks here negotiated through 
Banks there but the money had not actually come back to the country . Mr. 
Sachin Chowdhari further stated that the other side of the story is this that there 
was found by investigation that it was likely hat Rs. 1 . 15 crores had evaded 
income tax in the cuse of Chamanlal. He further stated that his personal enquiries 
established that Mr. Havelirai was the personal astrologer and prohit of the Home 
Minister, but there had not been any pressure put A little later, he said that he 
got no authority over his predecessor . He could not summon him , call minor was 
he in a position of a Judge who had got to judge between two persons. His posi 
tion was to make an investigation as best as he cuuiu . Ble had done it by calling 
his oficers and looking into every document himself io satisfy himself whether there 
was any noting by anybody suggesting that there had been intereference by the 
Home Ministry or, the Finance Ministry and he made hold to say that there was 
absolutely no trace of that. Beyond that , he could not say if anything happened 
between two persons which he did not know he could not answer that. That was 
80 lar 2S Havellram and the Home Minister were concerned . 


When the attention of respondent No, 2 was drawn to the speech made by Mr. 
Sachin Chowdhari, then Finance Minister , he said that that speech was made by 
him as the Finance Minister of the Central Government, but everything stated by 
him was not as a result of the decision of the Cabinet of the Central Government 
Ultimately when a Minister says something in the Parliament the general reg . 
ponsibility is of the Cabinct. As a general principle every other member of the 
Cabinet had a joint responsibility for such statement. After his attention was 
drawn to a report in Indian Express dated March 25 , 1966 under the heading 
" Nanda hand in Delhi raid case denied .” respondent No . 2 said that he read in 
newspapers that it was alleged against Mr. Nanda that he had connection with 
the firm of Chamanlal Brothers through Haveliram astrologer , but he did not 
remember whether he learnt about this report from the Indian Express or any 
other newspaper . He also said that froin a note prepared by his son - in - law 
Mr. Patkar, he came to know that his name was not mentioned in connection 
with Chamanlal; that from that note , it was clear that there was no basis for 
linking his name with Chamanlal, but it was a habit of respondent No . 1 to Ink 
his name with so many things with which he had nothing to do. 


In his written statement filed in this petition , no averment has been made 
alleging that his name was associated with any of the dealings of the firm of 
Chamanlal, but the only allegation is that he ( respondent No. 2 ) is behind the 
alleged Amichand Pyarelal fraud . It is clear from the averments in the petition 
as well as the written statement of respondent No. 2 that at the time when these 
pleadings were filed , both the petitioner and respondent No. 2 proceeded on the 
assumption that by the article ( Ex . 57 ) , the name of respondent No. 2 was not 
associated with the firm of Chamanlals , otherwise one would have expected some 
pleadings in that behalf. The evidence of the petitioner also shows that he did 
not know who the Chamanalals referred in article ( Ex . 57 ) were. He did not 
know whether the name of respondent No. 2 or Atulya Ghosh or Biju Patnaik or 
Sanjiva Reddy was associated with the transaction of Chamanlals . He was equally 
igno ant of the association of Mr, Nanda s name in Parliament with the transac 
tions of Chamanlals , 


Certain questions were put to respondent No. 2 while he was in the witness 
box in relation to certain prominent leaders in the Congress against whom alle 
gations of corruption and favouritism were publicly made. He hagfrankly 
conceded the truth of most of the allegations that were brought to his notice in 
cross-examination . He asid that a Commission of Enquiry presided over by 
Mr. S . R . Da : the former Chief Justice of India , was appointed to go into the 
affairs of Mr. Pratap Singh Kairon and the members of his family in connection 
with acquiring wealth ; that Mr. Kairon was the Chief Minister of Punjab and was 
an important All India Congress leader ; that he was held responsible for gome of 
the charges and that he ceased to be the Chief Minister of Punjab as a result of 
this enguiry . Respondent No. 2 also said that the affairs of Haridas Mundhra be 
came the subject matter of cnguiry presided over by Mr. M . C , Chagla , then Chief 
Justice of Bombay ; that the Commission of Enguiry came to a finding that apart 
from some officials of the Central Government. Mr, T . T . Krishnamachari then 
Finance Minister could not escape some responsibility and that Mr, Kishna 
machari resigned . He said that after some years Mr, Krishnamachari again be 
came the Finance Minister in the Central Government, that representatlong were 


made to the President of India by Members of Parliament against Mr. Krløbna -. 
machari; that he knew that Mr, Krishnamachari wanted that the then Prime 
Minister of India , Mr, Lal Bahadur Shastri should decide whether the allegations 
made against him were true, while the Prime Minister wanted to refer those 
allegations for opinion to the Attorney General of India , He added Mr. Krishna 
machari resigned because he said that if the Prime Minister , after going into the 
allegations, had no confidence in him , he preferred to resign . He also said that . 
he knew Mr. Biju Patnaik of Orissa ; that Mr. Biju Patnaik was conrected with one 
industry in Orissa , viz ., Kalinga Tubes ; that Mr. Biren Mitra wag the Chief 
Minister of Orissa ; that serious allegations of corruption were made against Mr. 
Biju Patnaik and Mr. Biren Mitra ; that those allegationg of corruption against 
them were referred to the Central Bureau oť Investigation ; that the Central 
Bureau of Investigation went into those allegations ; that questions were raised 
in Parliament on several occasions why action was not taken against these two . 
Congress leaders ; that Mr. Biren Mitra resigned as the Chief Minister because 
of these allegations. He, however did not know that Mr. Biju Patnaik resigned 
as Chairman of the State Planning Board because of these allegations. Respond 
ent No. 2 also said that allegations were made aginst Mr. Sanjiva Reddy, then , 
Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh , alleging that he showed favour to somo 
transport company ; that he resigned as soon as there was a judgment of the 
High Court in this matter , or it may well be that the resignation was after the 
judgment of the Supreme Court in this matter of granting permit or licence to 
the transport company . Respondent No. 2 also said that Mrs . Tarkeshwari 
Sinha is an All India Congress leader , that she was a Deputy Minister in the 
Ministry of Finance ; that allegations were made against her in connection with 
certain acquisition of property that he did not remember whether these allega 
tions against her were referred to the Attorney General ot India ; that he thought 
she resigncd , but he was not sure. He also said that there were charges of 
corruption made against Mr. Baxi Gulam Ahmed , at one time the Chief Minister 
of the State of Jammu and Kashmir ; that these charges of corruption were 
referred to a Commission of Enquiry presided over by Mr. Ayyangar, the former 
Judge of the Supreme Court of India and that the Commission found him guilty 
of certain charges of corruption . He also said that Mr. K . D . Malaviya was a 
Minister in charge of the Ministry of Mines and Fuel and later on in charge of 
the Ministry of Oil and that certain allegations were made against him on the 
floor of Parliament in relation to the firm of Sirajuddin & Co., that Mr. Malaviya . 
resigned because the allegations against him were referred to the Attorney 
General of India . On this aspect , respondent No, 2 concluded his evidence by 
stating that it is true that this list of 5 or 6 persons being involved in matter : 
of corruption makes sorry reading, but this list of 5 or 6 persons is out of 500 
to 800 Ministers in India in various States , 

In the course of the trial , reference was made to a letter of Introduction 
( Ex , 131 ) given by respondent No. 2 to one Mr. N . S . Hoon , addressed to Mr. 
Atulya Ghosh on Februory 2 , 1965 . In this letter respondent No . 2 descrihed 
Mr. Hoon as a friend of his . as an enterprising industrialist and a person who 
acquired the major interest in Turner Morrison , one of the biggest combines in 
the country . Py this letter respondent No. 2 requested Mr. Atulya Ghosh to 
treat Mr. Hoon as his friend . It appears from the evidence of respondent 
No, 2 that sometime in the beginning of September 1966 , a note wag placed on 
the table of the Lok Subha by Mr. B , C , Dutt, the Finance Secretary wherein . 
Mr. Hoon was described as a person of doubtfu ) inteority . In view of such 
a note being placed on the table of the House , Mr. Hoon , who had not in 
fact given this letter of introduction to Mr, Atulya Ghosh . gavin it to Mr. 
Madhu Limaye , a Member of Parliament, with a view to show that one of the 
Ministers of the Cabinet was describing him as a person of doubtful inteority , 
while another Minister of Cabinet was giving a letter of Introduction as a friend . 
This letter of introduction was ultimately published in some Communist news 
papers and ultimately , Mr. Hoon wrote ñ letter to respondent No. 2 erlaining 
the circumstances under which he handed over the letter of introduction to 
Mr. Madhu Limaye . 

In the course of the trial reference was also made to what Welles Hangen . 
said in his brol “ After Nehru Who ? " at, pare 233 ahout respondent No. 2 
Reference was made to the passage to the following effect : 
" Many Indian and foreign political observera now insist that Patil 19 

out of the running for the Prime Ministership , former Union 
Finance Minister . C . D . Deshmukh savg: Patil hag good managerial 
ability but so far as his popular influence is concerned , it ik 
practically nil except for what he can obtain by 10g rolling with , 


5000 


THE GALLII, V , INDIA . . U . L Ben 16 , 1. v8 / KANTINA 5, 1970 [PART II - - 


W 


= 


the mercantile community in Bombay . He is distrusted and dis 
liked by the people at largc, who think he is too much of a machine 
politician . Patil gets things done by making deals with the money 

boys in Bombay ." 
On behalf of respondent No. 1 no evidence is led to show that the statement 
attributed to Mr. C . D . Deshmukh in this passage was ever made by him , 
Thus there is no evidence led on behalf of respondent No. 1 to show that 
such a statement was over made by Mr. Deshmukh about respondent No. 2 , 
While respondent No. 1 was in the witness box under cross -examination , a 
letter (Ex , X - 72 ) dated October 10 , 1967 purporting to be from Mr. C . D . 
Deshmukh to one Dharam Yash Dev was shown wherein Mr, Deshmukh is pur 
ported to have stated that he had not scen Welles Hangen s book and he did 
not recall having been interviewed by him . Except for showing the letter 
(Ex. X - 72 ) to respondent No . 1, no other attempt has been made on behalf 
of the petitioner to prove the contents of this letter . Thus the only thing on 
record is the passage at page 233 in Welles Hangen s book putting certain 
words in the mouth of Mr Deshmukh . 

It emerges from the above discussion , that serious allegations of dishoncst 
dealings are made against the firm of Amichand Pyarelal and their associates , 
the firm of Khemchand Ramkumar , the firm of Ramkumar Kulyantrai, Mundhra 
Kalinga Tubes, a transport company in Andhra Pradesh , Sirajuddin & Co ., the 
firm of Chamanlals and Mr. Hoon . I am not really concerned in the present 
case whether these alicuations are at all true and if so , to what extent. It is 
also clear from the evidence of respondent No , % that large funds were advanced 
from the shipping fulci to one Mr. Dherma Teja , that there was a reference 
to such advances to Mr. Pharina Teja in Lok Sabha and that Mr. Dharma Teja 
is required by the Central Government in connection with misappropriation of 
large sums of money . Respondent No. 2 also said that he read in newspapers 
that Shanti Prasad Jain and various persons from Dalmia Jain group were pro 
secuted for misappropriation of funds of either Dalmia Jain Airways or Bharat 
Airways . He was asked questions whether he remembered to have written any 
letter to Mr. Shanti Prasad Jain for contribution to the Congress fund in the 
year 1966 -67 And he replied that he did not specifically remeinber to have written 
a letter to him because he wrote many such letters to businessmen . He thought 
that this time Mr. Shanti Prasad Jain did not contribute anything to the Con 
gress election fund . When asked in cross - examination he said that he knew 
Mr, Ghanshyamdas Birla for the last over 25 years , that he is a constant and 
regular contributor to the Congress funds and that he had read in newspapers 
that a number of Birla firms were raided by the Enforcement Branch . His atten . 
tion was drawn to the debates in Lok Sabha on December 2 , 1966 ( Ex . 148 ) 
where Mr. S . M . Banerjce, a Member of Parliament, said that he had a photostat 
copy of a letter written by Jit Pal (a representative of Amichand Pyarelal firm ) 
to D . B . Thapar which mentioned that a sum of Rs. 50 ,000 / - was given by him to 
respondent No. 2 . Respondent No . 2 was present in Lok Sabha on that day , 
but he did not remember whether he was present in the House when Mr. Banerji 
made such a statement. He said that the proceedings in the question hour ure 
sometimes as noisy as in a fish market and he did not hear Mr. Banerji making 
such an allegation in the house and he, therefore, did not contradict him in the 
House . Ho denied having received either Rs. 50 ,000 - or any other amount from 
Jit Pal. He said in fact he did not know either Jit Pal or D . B . Thapar , 

In his eyidence respondent No. 2 admitted that he wrote numerous letters 
to various businessmen and industrialists for contribution to the Congress elec 
tion funds and he said he would not be surprised if as a result of his writing 
slich letters over a crore of rupees were contributed to the Congress funds. A 
report of what transpired at an interview given by him to the correspondent of 
the UNI was published in the issue of Times of India dated January 16 , 1987 
(Ex . 147 ) . At this Interview one of the qucstions asked to respondent No . 2 
was : From where docs the Congress got its money ? Respondent No . 2 replied that 
the Congress gets its money from the industrialists. He would collect Rupees 
one crore for the party . There was nothing underhand in this . There was a 
law about this . Everything was above board . The Swatantra, PSP , Jan Sangh , 
all got money from the industrialists. There was nothing wrong in that. In 
fact a list ( Ex . 157) of the contributions amounting to several lacs of rupees 
by various businessmen and industrial concerns to the election fund of the 
Bombay Pradnch Congress Committee is brought on record and that shows that 
pursuant to the requests made by respondent No. 2 , large funds were collected 
for the election ſund of the BPCC , as shown hy this exhibit 


Sec. ? ( ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA , 1890 sošo 
--. ---- ----.... = = = - == = - - - - : - - - - - - - -.. . - . --- .. . 

Wiven the atiention of Mii Jetimaisti, Coun :01 for the poliioner , wäis Hiaw11 
to these various factors , it was ! Bispuced by him that a person 101 ſavourably 
politically disposed to Congress and its leaders may reasonably and bonu lide 
take the view that in the Congress organisntion , on a number of occasions 
serious atid substantial allegations of corliption or rourt sm are made against 
persons occupying prominent and important positions Ol Office ; that against a few 
of them , these allegations are substatiated , while a few of them preferred to 
resign when it prima facie orauiry into the veracity of those allegations was 
contemplated . This evidence , therefore, shows that respondent No . 1 reusonably 
entertained the bona fide belict that there were some prominent men inside the 
Congress organisation and Government who supporter dishonest, firms of business 
men or industrialists. However, so far as respondent No. 2 is concerned there 
is a clear admission of respondent No. i thit it was always far from his mind 
during the election campaign thit respondent No. 2 propped up Am chand 
Pyarelal or Cliamanlal or that he supported these two firms in all or any of their 
missionais , that he never believe any such thing about respondent No . 2 and 
that zo lidl not believe that respondent No. 2 had at any time propped up or 
supported the misdeeds of any fim with a shady record or repulation cther 
thai Amichand Pyarelal and Chamanlal Picspondent No. 1 has also categorically 
adınitted that he did not believe that responclent No. 3 had lounded out any 
honest Congressmen from public life and that it was far from his mind to suggest 
any Corruption against respondent No . 2 either as a Minister or as a Congress 
mari . 


One of ilic inportant ingredients of the sub -section is that the statement 
should be made in rolation to the personal character or conduct , etc , of another 
candidate. What is the meaning of the expression " personal character or con 
duct ? " That question has been considered by the Supreme Court in tre case 
of T . K . Gangi Reddy v . MV , C . Anjancha Reddy , ( 1960 ) 22 Election Law Reports 
261. Dealing with this expression , the Supreme Court observed at page 268 


thus: 


" The words " persolis ?l character or conduct " ?! so clear that they do not 

require further clucidation or doinition . The character of a person 
may ordinarily be cquated with his mental or moral nature , Conduct 
connotes a person s actions or behaviour." 


It would be noticca that in prescribing the requirement that the false state 
ment should have relation to the personal character of the candidate, a distinc 
tion is intended to be drawn beiwen the personal character of the candidate 
and his public or political character . The provision postulates that if a false 
statement is male in regard to the public or political character of the candidate , 
it would not constitute it corrupt practice even if it is likely to prejudice the 
prospects of that candidate s cleclion . This assumption is presumably based on 
the theory that the clectorate being politically educated and mature would not 
be deceived by u falsa criticism against the public or political character of any 
candidate . The public and political citaracter of a candidate is open to public 
viet 3 ? public criticism and even if any false statements are made about the 
political views of a candidato or his public conduct or character , the electorato 
would be able to judge the allegations on the merits , and may not be misled 
by a fals ; allegations in that bchall. It is on this theory that falsc statements 
affecting th : public or political character of a candidate are not brought within 
the rischief of section 123 / 1 ) . 127 . order that the elections should be free, it is 
no r y that the cleclorate sti011164 be educated on pclitical issues in a fearless 
marec and so the Insigature ( 120ught that full and ample scope should be left 
for free and fearless criticism ly candidates against the public and political 
chorter of their opponents . 


Blly the position with regard to private or personal character of the candidate 
is very different. Circulation of false statements about the private or personal 
character of the candidate during the period preceding elections is likely to 
wnik azoinst the freedom of election itself inasmuch as the effect created by 
falso amenints cannot be met hy denials in proper time and so the Constituency 
has to be protected against the circulation of such false statements which are 
likely to affect the voting of the electors. That is why it is for the protection 
of the constiturncy against such acts which would be fatal to the freedor : ol 
election that the stature provides for the inclusion of the circulation of false 
statements concerning the private character of a candidate amongst corrupt 
practices. Disseinination of false statements about the personal character of 3 . 
candidate thus constitutes a corrupt practice , 


5090 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II - 


Though it is clear that the statute wants to make a broad distinction between 
public and political character on the one hand and private character on the other , 
it is obvious that a sharp and clear - cut dividing line cannot be drawn to disti : 
guish the one from the other . In discussing the distinction between the private 
haracter, sometimes reference is made to the " man beneath the politician and 
It is said that if a statement of fact affects the man beneath the politician it 
touches private character and if it affects the politician , it does not touch hig 
private character . There may be some false statements of fact which clearly 
affect the private character of the candidate . But there may be cases on the 
border - linc where the false statements made affect both the politician and the 
. man beneath the politician and it is precisely in dealing with cases on the border 
linc that difficulties are experienced in determin ng whether the impugned false 
statement constitutes a corrupt practice or not. It is clear that in dealing with 
corrupt practices alleged under section 123 ( 4 ) where we are concerned with 
border - line cases, we will have to draw a working line to distinguish private 
character from public character and it may also have to be borne in mind that 
In some cases, the false statement may affect both the private and the public 
character as well. See Inder Lal y , Lal Singh and others , A . I. R . 1962 Supreme 
Court 1158 at pages 1159- 60 . 


Reference may well be had to the oft -quoted case reported as the Cockermouth 
Division case, ( 1901 ) 5 O M . & H . 155 , wherein Darling, J. ag he then was , mays: 
" What the Act forbids is this : You shall not make or publish any false 

statement of fact in relation to the personal character or conduct of 
such candidate ; if you do, it is an illegal practice . It is not an offence 
to say something which may be severe about another person , nor 
which may be unjustifiable , nor which may be derogatory , unless 
it amounts to a false statement of fact in relation to the personal 
character or conduct of such candidate ; and I think the Act says 
that there is a great distinction to be drawn between a false state 
ment of facts which affects the personal character or conduct of a 
candidate and a false statement of fact which deals with the political 
position or reputation or action of the candidate . If that were not 
kept in mind , this statute would simply have prohibited at election 
times all sorts of criticism which was not strictly true relating to 
the political behaviour and opinions of the candidate . That is why 
it carefully provides that the false statement, in order to be 
an illegal practice , must relate to the personal character and personal 
conduct." 


Thus the boundary between the personal character and conduct and public 
character and conduct is well drawn, though , sometimes, it is thin . Sometimes 
& statement may appear to touch both the candidate s personal as well as public 
character . But deeper scrutiny enables a Court to ascertain whether there is a 
reflection on his personal character or on his public character . Any statement 
made, which reflects on the mental or moral character of a person is a reflection 
on his personal character, whereas any criticism of a person s political or public 
activities and policies is outside it. The fact such a statement is made in the 
course of a political or public activity does not make it any the less a statement 
In relation to his personal charatocr or conduct. It is a question of fact in 
each case under what category a particular statement falls . 

In order that the elections in a democratic country should be frecly and 
fearlessly conducted , considerable latitude has to be given to the respective 
dompeting candidatos to criticise their opponents political or socio - economic 
philosophy or their antecedents and character as public men . The legislature 
thought that in the heat of election it may be permissible for competing parties 
and candidates to make statements in relation to the public character of their 
opponents and even if some of the statements are false, they would not amount 
to corrupt practice . It often becomes necessary to examine carefully whether the 
Talse statement impinges on the personal character of the candidate concerned . 
Though it is not easy to lay down the general considerations which would help 
the determination of this issue in every case in actual practice but it may not 
be very difficult to decide whether the false statement impinges on the personal 
character of the candidate or on his public character , 


The question arises whether the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the 
petition is a reflection upon the personal character and conduct of respondent 
No.2 . Where a charge of publication of false statement about the personal 


- 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 5091 
E S . : = : = : - - = 

= 
character and conduct of a candidate is inade, it must be sustained by the false 
statement directly relating to the personal character or conduct of the candidate 
and reference to the personal character and conduct of the candidate must be 
explicit and derivable from the plain meaning of the words used The charge 
in paragraph 2L of the petition is that the passage quoted therein contains & 
clear insinuation that respondent No. 2 is behind the alleged Amichand Pyarelal 
fraud ; that it is well known that the allegation against Amichand Pyarelal was 
that they had entered into conspiracy to defraud the Government of India by 
charging the Government of India for rice bags which never arrived from Burma; 
that the said allegation against Amichand Pyarelal was totally false and that 
respondent No. 2 had nothing to do with Amichand Pyarelal or any of their 
88sociate concerns or the said bags of rice or charges in respect thereof. 


In his supplemental written statement respondent No . 1 has denied that 
reference to Messrs Aminchand Pyarelal in the said passages contains a clear or 
any insinuation that respondent No. 2 is behind the alleged Amichand Pyarelal 
fraud . He did not admit that the allegation against Amichand Pyarelal that they 
had entered into conspiracy to defraud the Government of India by charging tho 
Government for rice bags which haver arrived from Burma was false . He says 
that he is not aware that respondent No , 2 had nothing to do with Messrs. 
Amichand Pyarelal or any of their moncerns or the said bags of rice or charges 
in respect thereof. 


In the article ( Ex , 57 ) there is no reference express or direct or even implied 
to the rice bags deal of the Arm of Amichand Pyarelal or its associate concerns. 
The petitioner , however, has attempted to give evidence how on reading this 
article , he carried an impression that the name of respondent No. 2 was ussociated . 
with the alleged Amichand Pyarelal fraud in connection with the rice bags. He 
said in his eyidence- in - chief that on reading this article, he carried the impression 
that Amichand Pyarelal are dishonest businessmen who had entered into a cons 
piracy to defraud the Government and that respondent No. 2 was associated with 
them in the conspiracy to defraud the Government. He had such impressions 
about Amichand Pyarelal from September 1966 as a result of his reading the 
summary of the proceedings of the Lok Sabha, When cross - examined he said 
that he carried an impression from reading this article that respondent No. 2 is 
associated with Amichand Pyarelal in a conspiracy to defraud Government because 
It is stated in this article that these men (he., s , K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju 
Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy ) prop up Aminchand Pyarelals and Chamanlals, sup 
port them in all their misdeeds and put a premium on dishonest businessmen 
and industrialists . According to him , the word which in the phrase " hard core 
of the coterie which controls" goes with the words " hard core " und not with the 
word coterie . He said that anybody who had knowledge about the activities of 
Amichand Pyarelal will positively come to the conclusion that respondent No. 2 
had a hand with Amichand Pyarelal in a conspiracy to defraud the Government. 
He said that from the summary of the debates in Lok Sabha when Dr. Lohia 
made the speech on September 2 , 1966 and the report thereof published in , Times 
of India , he gathered the impression that Dr, Lohia was alleging that respondent 
No. 2 was associated with Amichand Pyarelal in a conspiracy to defraud Govern 
mcnt in connection with rice bags deal. He said that respondent No, 2 was refer 
red to though he was not specifically referred to in the speech simply because It 
was stated by Dr. Lohia in the course of his speech that because of the negligence 
of the Food Minister, the prices had gone up and that there was a reference to 
foodgrains in the specch . On the day when he read this article , he did not know 
whether any allegations were marle against Amichand Pyarelal between May and 
August 1966 in respect of certain transactions of steel wherein foreign exchange 
was involved . In fact he said that at the time when he read this article (Ex . 57 ) 
in the beginning of November 1966 . he did not know whether any allegations 
were made against Amichand Pyarela ] at any time in respect of transactions of 
steel, He did not know whether Public Accounts Committee criticised Mr. 
Subramanlum , the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Steel in respect of 
transactions of Amichand Pyarelal in iron and steel, that he was not aware of 
any report being published in newspaper about this report of the Public Accounts 
Committee , that he did not know whether a committee of enguiry to be presided 
over by the former Chief Justice of India was appointed to enquire into the 
steel transactions of Amichand Pyarelal. He further said that prior to November 
5 , he had also heard about Amichand Pyarelal apart from reading the speech 


50 ve THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 PART II 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 
of Dr. Lol. it, illat nis colleagues and workers were discussing aoout Amichand 
Pyaltilut , vai de card awut them iron their discussion , that people were also 
talking about them while travelling in the bus. However, he was unable to 
give the name of any person who was so talking about Amichand Pyarelal even 
though hundreds of persons were tasking about them . He said that prior to 
September 1966 , he did not hear anything about the firm of Amichand Pyarelal 
at all. 


Respondent No. 2 in his evidence stated that he came to know for the first 
time of the article (Ex. 57 ) round about the time the petition was filed and he 
said that the various attributes that are contained in the adjectival clauses that 
follow he word coteries in the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition 
ar-. the characteristics or attributes of the men like S . K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju 
Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy . According to him Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and 
Sanjiva Reddy had nothing to do with Amichand Pyarelal to the best of his know 
ledge. Therefore , the insinuation is a direct charge that he did the various things 
which are mentioned , that the other three names have been thrown there as canon 
fodder , that the names of Atulva Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy might 
come while considering the words controls the destinies of the nation , even de 
cid : : Who should be the Prime Minister and who should not be , hounds out the 
few nest Congressmen from public life - - but that only his name was associated 
witi zim : chand Pyarelal on a true interpretation of this extract. 


Respondent No. 1 in his evidence stated that there was no reference to res 
pondent No. 2 anywhere or even in newspapers with regard to the firni of Ami 
chard Pyarelal and Ciamanlal; that referer. ce had been made in Parliament to 
some rice deals ; that the news thereof had appeared in newspapers , but there was 
nothing suggested that responent No. 2 was connected with the rice deals ; that 
when lie wrote this article , he did not suggest that respondent No. 2 or any other 
persons whose names are mentioned in this article were directly or otherwise in 
volved with the transactions of these firms. In his cross - examination he said 
that he was not aware that it was alleged in Parliament that one of the Central 
Ministers in charge of the Focd Department was involved in Amichand Pyarelal. 
affair ; that he did not recollect to have come to know of the speech of Dr. Lohia 
in Parliament on September 2 , 1966 ; that he did not remember having read the 
report of the speech of Dr. Lohia in Parliament on September 2 , 1966 in con 
nection with rice bags imported from Burma; that at the time when he wrote this 
article , he was not even aware that Amichand Pyarelal were associated with any 
rice deals ; that in tho months of August - September 1966 , Amichand Pyarelal 
were in the news in connection with the steel transactions and licences , 


Prior to 5th November 1966 , reference to Amichand Pyarelal fraud in relation 
to rica bags deal appairs to have only been made by Dr. Lohia in a speech made 
by him in Lok Sabha on Sepiombor 2 , 1966 . Ex . 65 is the relevant extract of the 
speech of Dr. Lohia ir I .ck Sabha. This extract shows that at that time there was 
discussion :: Lok Sabia logut planning. While criticising planning , Dr. Lohia 
referred to a letter written by the Proprietor of the shipping company Apeejoy 
Line, to ih Carin oº the shir , 7cony of which war cent by the Indian Embassy 
in f . 17 ,000 to 1" Covernment. In his speerr Dr. Lohja said that this lettor was 
supproat and n .: artin as talon either : le Minister o : Mit ritnar officy of 
the rimont against the shirining com ? " :37 . He alleged that the conspiracy 
whicitoking p : on vas cunca led , thay the letter was not shpin to the audit , 
that the lofter was written in 1963, that sinroh, four Ministers are concerned 
wi* ; Vris letter , that one of the four Ministers is responsible , that he desired that 
the rane of the Minister who is responsible for not taking action should be 
traced and that the Minister who was ni ; taken tion should be removed as it 
was not necessary to hear any explanation in the mattor . In this speech he did 
not ev ? refer to the Ministry of Food ; ror did he directly or indirectly refer 
to the name of regrondeiat No. 2 in his speech . The tenor cf his speech indicates 
that he hismelf did not know the name of the Minister pho could be held respon 
siblin for not taking any action after the recript of the letter from Indian Em 
bassy in Rangoon . The report pf fire spedit of Dr. Lohia in Parliament was pub .. 
lished in the issue of Times of India dated September 3 . 1966 and the relevant 
extract thereof is Ex . 64 . 


The letter from the Proprietor of the shipping company to the Captain of the 
ship that was referred to by Dr Lohia is part of Ex , 159 . That is the letter dated 
March 7 , 1962 written by Surendra Overseas Pvt. Ltd . as owners of Apeejay Lines 


SEÇ , 3 ( i ) ] THE GAZETTB OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5093 


to all Masters of Ships. The letter is headed " subject : Precautions to avoid 
claims." In this letter Surendrá Overseas Pvt . Ltd . referred to the claims made by 
Government by way of shortages in respect of shipment of rice from Burma to 
India . A mode is suggested in this matter how such a claim made on behalf of 
Government in respect of shortages should be ret . It is stated in this letter : 
" It is therefore, essential that apart from exercising more care in checking 

the tally lione both at the time of loading and discharging. other 
ways also are instituted to minimise the claims to the maximum 
extent possible . Thus it is suggested that you arrange to discharge a 
suficient number of empty gunny bags with loading marks as 
indicated in the respective Bills of Lading stencilled on them , so that 
even if there is a shortage in the number of bags , we will have an 
opportunity to repudiate the claim by setting off the shortages in the 
contents by the sweeping that may be delivered from each vessel, 
The discharge of ihese empty gunny bags should be by distributing 
them in the various corners of the lower holds of the natches in a 
damaged condition . Only trustworthy people may be employed for 

doing this work . 
We are asking our Agents at the various ports to supply you with the 

necessary empty gunny bags." 
Inforination about this letter was received by the Food Attache of the Embassy 
of India ut Rangoon and he forwarded a copy of this letter to Mr. B . L . Sahney , 
Deputy Secretary ( Imports ) , Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Department of 
Food , New Delhi along with his letter dated April 12, 1962 (part of Ex . 159 ) . It 
appears from the evidence of Mr. Harivansh Lal ( Ex , 158 ) that respondent No. 2 
was at that time the Minister in charge of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, 
but neither of the letters forming part of Ex . 159 were placed before him , nor were 
any directions sought from him as regards the action to be taken thereof, nor was 
any information given to him about the action taken on receipt of the said letters. 
The evidence of Mr. Harivansh Lal shows that the letters ( Ex . 159 ) were dealt 
with at a much lower level, 

It is , however , clear from the evidence in this case that no information , apart 
from that gathered from the speech made by Dr, Lohia in Lok Sabha on September 
2 , 1966 ( Ex , 65 ) was generally available to the public in connection with the alleg 
ed Amichand Pyarelal fraud in relation to the rice bags from Burma. The discus 
sion in Parliament on September 2 , 1966 was on the subject of Planning . Dr, Lohia 
in his speech did refer to the letter that was received from the Food Attache, 
Indian Embassy at Rangoon in connection with an atterapt to defraud the Govern 
ment in the matter of rice bags deal of Amichand Pyarelal; he, however , did not 
specifically mention the name of any Minister during the course of his speech in 
Lok Sabha . His grievance was that a letter was received from the Indian Embassy 
in Rangoon in the year 1962 ; but no action , according to him , was taken on the 
said letter . Since the receipt of that letter , four Ministers had changed , but no 
action was taken . He wanted that the name of the Minister who was responsible for 
not taking such action on the letter should be traced and he should be removed 
from ofice , Dr, Lohia in his speech did not mention the name of respondent No. 2 
as the Minister responsible for not taking any action . The petitioner is only surmis 
ing in the witness box in associating the name of respondent No . 2 with the alleged 
Amichand Pyarelal fraud in the natter of rice bags fraud as he had no information 
apart from merely reading the summary of the speech of Dr. Lohia in Lok Sabha. 
He has further gone on to say that such a thing was as if the talk of the town , but 
he was unable to specify the name of any such person or persons who were 80 
talking. While scrutinising his evidence on this point, it has to be remembered 
that he says that prior to September 1966 , he had not heard or known or read 
about the misdeeds of Amichand Pyarelal in reference to transactions in Iron and 
steel. To say the least , this is rather surprising From April 1966 to August 1968 
On a number of occasions, there was discussion in Parliament about these misdeeds 
of Amichand Pyarelal. Public Accounts Committee has submitted two reports 
50th and 55th reports in connection therewith . These reports were subject matter 
of detailed discussion on a number of occasions in Parllament. A committee of en 
quiry was appointed to investigate into all these affairs and exhaustive reports of 
such discussions in Parliament had appeared in daily newspaper , ag is evident from 
the various issues of the Times of India ( Ex . 08 to 76 ) produced in this case , such 
being generally the information available to the members of the public about Ami 
chand Pyarelal and thoir associate firms, it is difcult to accept the evidence of the 
petitioner when he mys that prior to September 1966 , he did not hear or know or 
read anything about Amichand Pyarelal in newspapers , On merely reading the 


6094 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ParŢII --- 

. .. 
summary of the speech of Dr. Lohia in Parliament on September 2 , 1966 , the peti 
tioner had no ground , much less a reasonable ground , to carry an impression that 
respondent No. 2 s name was associated by Dr. Lohia in his speech on that day 
in relation to the rice bags fraud of Amichand Pyarelal. His evidence that he had 
such an impression about the name of respondent No. 2 being, associated in rela 
tion to the rice bags fraud of Amichand Pyarelal on merely reading the summary 
of Dr. Lohia s speech in Parliament cannot be accepted . It is clear that the peti 
tioner does not claim to have any knowledge about this Amichand Pyarelal fraud 
in relation to rice bags apart from the summary of the speech of Dr. Lohia in 
Parliament. This shows that on the day when the article ( Ex . 57) was published 
in relation to rice bags apart from the summary of the speech of Dr. Lohia in 
the public as a result which the name of respondent No. 2 could be associated with 
the rice bags fraud of Amichand Pyai elal. 

It was only in the beginning of December 1966 that in a speech made in Lok 
Sabha , Dr. Lohia distinctly associated the name of respondent No . 2 with the rice 
bags fraud of Amichand Pyarelal. That speech was made by Dr. Lohia on Decem 
ber 1, 1966 in Lok Sabha , Ex . 188 is a relevant extract of the discussion in Parlia 
ment in relation to this specch of Dr. Lohia . In this speech Dr. Lohia has referred 
to the alleged shortages in foodgrains while they were transported in different 
ships belonging to Apcejay Lines between the year 1961 and 1964 and how there 
was loss of thousands of rupees. While giving particulars for the period upto 1963 
June - July , Dr. Lohia alleged that such loss had taken place at the time when res 
pondent No. 2 was the Food Minister . On this occasion , in very clear words he 
involved respondent No. 2 and Mr. Swaran Singh as the Ministers who were in 
volved in the matter of shortages of foodgraing that were carried in the ships 
belonging to Apeejay Lines and he further said that he did not know whether 
there were others involved in it or not. In the course of his speech , Dr, Lohia said : 
" I want to announce that the firm of Amichand Pyarelal was not a big 

company in the beginning but when Sardar Swaran Singh was for 
five years Minister for Steel and when Shri S . K . Patil in the beginn 
ing was Transport Minister and then when he became the Food Min 
ister and then when Subramaniam came, then under the shelter of all 
these three Ministers under their favouring shelter the Amichand 
Pyarcial Company s kingdom expanded in the field of steel, in the 
field of steamships and in all other Melds. It is not known how many 
Ministers are in his pocket. My question is that those in the Trans 
port Ministry who have recommended this company have done a very 
good work . Why was the order of blacklisting of this company with 
drawn and why were they given facilities ? Will the Honourable Min 
ister clear up this conundrum ? " 


On behalf of the Government, the position was explained by Mr. Govinda Menon , 
the Minister of State in the Ministry of Food , Agriculture, Community Develop 
ment and Co - operation . It is unnecessary to go through the explanation offered 
by the Honourable Minister as I am not concerned in the present case with the 
truth or otherwise of the allegations made by Dr . Lohia in the course of his 
speech . Respondent No. 2 was, however , not present in Lok Sabha when this 
speech was made by Dr. Lohia . He came to know of it on the next day when 
the report of his speech appeared in newspapers , Immediately on coming to 
know of this speech on December 2 , 1966 , respondent No. 2 made a statement in 
Lok Sabha , the relevant extract of which is Ex . 117 . Respondent No, 2 said 
that he found in a section of the press that day an observation attributed to Dr . 
Lohia alleging that he ( respondent No. 2 ) was implicated in cheating of several 
lacs of rupees by a shipping company and that this alleged cheating took place in 
1961, He further said that as he was not in the House when this statement was 
made, he could not contradict the statement on the spot. In the course of his 
statement, he made it abundantly clear that the accusation made against him was 
absolutely false and baseless and that he had nothing to do with the alleged in 
cident mentioned by him . He challenged Dr. Lohia to repeat such an allegation 
outside the House , so that he might be in a position to take proper action against 
him . 

These debates in Lok Sabha and the other evidence in the case , therefore, 
establish that on November 5 , 1966 when the article ( Ex . 57 ) was published in the 
issue of Blitz of that day, it was not generally known to the public that Dr. 
Lohia had associated the name of respondent No. 2 in connection with the rice 
bag fraud of Amichand Pyarelal OT had made accusations involving him therein ; 
that it was only on December 1 , 1966 in the course of his speech in Lok Sabha 
that Dr, Lohia seems to have made a reference for the first time in connection 


SÉC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5095 


with respondent No . 2 s name being involved in connection with the rice bags 
fraud of Amichand Pyarelal and that, therefore, the article (Ex . 57 ) cannot be 
construed to contain an insinuation that the name of respondent No. 2 is associa 
ted as being a party to the conspiracy by Amichand Pyarelal to defraud the Gov 
ernment of India by charging Government for rice bags which never arrived 
from Burma. Thus the charge levelled against respondent No. 1 in paragraph 2L 
of the petition as containing the insinuation therein suggested has not been estab 
lished , 

In the passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition severe criticism is made 
against the coterię that exists in the Congress organisation . The characteristics 
and attributes specified in the various adjectival clauses that follow the word 
coterie therein arc said to be the attributes or the characteristics of the coterie 
in the Congress Organisation . The earlier discussion shows the existence of 
such a coterie or a syndicate in the Congress organisation , The Congress party is one 
of the biggest political parties in the country and has undobutedly , many pro 
minent leuders at all - India as well as State levels . Simply because men like 
respondent No . 2 , Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy are described as 
forming the hard core of the coterie , it will not be reasonable to infer that the 
passage quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition enumerated the characteristics 
of these speciflcd individuals or is a reflection upon the personal character or con 
duct of respondent No . 2 and the other persons therein specified . 

Besides the above statement in the passage in paragraph 2L of the petition , 
respondent No . 2 has in his evidence pointed out other false statements in article 
( Ex . 57) In relation to his personal character and conduct . He said that the 
statements — S , K . Patil, Atulya Ghosh , Biju Patnaik and Sanjiva Reddy 
represent the most reactionary and degcncrate elements in the ruling party ; 
Patil is a boss of the political gang that is today taking the country down the 
drain and his defeat at the polls will deal a moral blow to all those who stand 
for the worst in our public life : the Congress party has always been many things 
to many men , but to Patil it has been the instrument to amass personal power 
in the manner of Tammany Hall boss - power , not for the fulfilment of the aspira 
tion of the masses but to provide help and succour to the exploiting classes in the 
country — are such false statements in relation to his personal character or conduct . 
While these false statements were enumerated by respondent No. 2 in his evidence . 
Mr. Jethmalani, the Counsel for the petitioner clearly stated that for the purpose 
of this petition , lie only relied upon the extract of the article quoted in paragraph 
2L of the petition as an instance of publication of a false statement filling within 
the scope of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act and that he did not rely upon the other 
statements as instances of corrupt practice . In view of this statement of Mr. 
Jethmalani, it is unnecessary to consider whether all these or any of those state 
ments are false statements in relation to the personal character or conduct of 
respondent No. 2 as they do not form part of the corrupt practice or charge 
pleaded in the petition and relied upon during the course of the trial, 

The next question that arises for consideration is whether respondent No. 2 
was a candidate at the time when the article ( Ex . 57 ) was written by respondent 
No. 1 and published in the issue of Blitz dated November 5 , 1966 , Part VÌ of the 
Act relates to disputes regarding election and Chapter I thereof deals with the 
interpretation of the various words used in this part. Section 79 ( b ) defines the 
word candidate . By this definition , the word candidate means a person who 
has been or claims to have been duly nominated as a candidate at any election , 
and any such person shall be deemed to have been a candidate as from the time 
when with the election in prospect he began to hold himself out as a prospective 
candidate . The material point to be considered having regard to this definition 
is ; Has the petitioner established that respondent No. 2 began to hold himself 
out as a prospective candidate on the day when the article (Ex . 57) was written 
by respondent No. 1 Or was published in the issue of Blitz dated November 5 , 
19667 


16th January 1968 : 

When a question arises under section 79 (b ) whether a person had become 
a candidate at a given point of time what has to be seen is whether at that 
point of time he had clearly and unambiguously declared his intention to stand 
as a candidate so that it could be said of him that he held himself out as a pros 
pective candidate , That he has merely formed an intention to stand for elec 
tion is not sufficient to make him a prospective candidate because it is of the 
essence of the matter that he should hold himself out as a prospective candi 
date . That can only be if he communicates that intention to the outside world 


5096 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 PART II 


by declaration or conduct from which it could be inferred that he intends to 
stand as a candidate. As soon as a person makes his choice and declares that 
he intends to stana for election and expresses his declaration through an overt 
act as for example , an application to a political organisation for a party ticket , 
he becomes a prospective candidate. He does not cease to be a prospective 
candidate until the party accepts him as a candidate and gives him a ticket. 
The determining factor is the decision of the candidate himgelt , not the act of 
the other persons or bodies adopting him as their candidate . Sce S . Khader vs, 
Mannuswami, (AJ. R . 1955 S . C . 775 — 1955 ) 11 Election Law Reports, 208 . 

The question sometime arises when the election begins. The subject is dealt 
with conscisely in a passage quoted in Halsbury s Laws of England , Vol. 12 , 
( 2nd Edn .) Article 493 at p . 237 which is cited with approval by the Supreme 
Court in N . P . Ponnuswami v . Returning Officer , Namakkal, A .I. R . 1952 S . C . 64 
1 Ele , Law Reporte 133 at p . 134 . 
" 493. Although the Arst formal step in every election is the imue of the 

writ the election is considered for some purposes to begin at an 
earller date . It is a question of fact in each case when an election 
beging in such a way as to make the parties concerned responsible 
for breaches of election law , the test being whether the contest Is 
reasonably imminent. Neither the issue of the writ nor the publl 
cation of the notice of election can be looked to as fixing the date 
when an election begin from this point of view . Nor , again , does 
the nomination day afford any criterion . The election will usually 
begin at least earlier than the issue of the writ. The question 
when an election begins must be carefully distinguished from that 
as to when the conduct and management of an election may be 
said to begin . Again , the question as to when a particular person 
commences to be a candidate is a question to be considered in cach 

case." 
When respondent No. 2 held himself out as a prospective candidate is not 
pleaded either in the Petition or in the Written Statement of respondent No . 2 . 
The only fact pleaded in the Petition is that respondent No . 2 is one of the 
eight candidates who contested the election to Lok Sabha from the Bombay 
South Parliamentary Constituency and this election wa, held on February 21, 
1967. In the absence of a plea in the pleadings of the Petitioner or respondent 
No, 2 as regards the time when respondent No. 2 held himself out as a candi 
date , the argument on their behalt is that when it is stated that a pergon is 
a candidate for election , it must be presumed that he was a candidate when 
ever the election commences, Such a plea iş vague and does not specify the 
point of time at which respondent No. 2 held himselt out as a prospective 
candidate at the election to be held in February 1967 . Neither the petitioner , 
nor respondent No. 2 nor any other witnesses examined on behall of the 
petitioner has said that respondent No. 2 held himselt out as a progpective candi 
date prior to the publication of the article ( Ex . 37 ) in the losue of Blitz dated 
November 5 , 1986 . Respondent No. 1 in his evidence has explained why he 
wrote the article ( Lx . 37 ) . The heading of this article is : " Why I am fighting 
Patil." Respondent No. 1 say , that the candidature of respondent No. 2 was 
not announced at the time when the article was published but he presumed 
that he would stand as a candidate from Bombay - South Parliamentary Consti 
tuency as for the last three general elections, respondent No. 2 contested the 
seat to Parliament from that constituency . In his cross - examination he says 
that in the year 1901, he had declared his intention to fight the election in the 
year 1987 from Bombay - South Parliamentary Constituency against respondent 
No . 2 . In April 1960 , he also reiterated his intention to contest rom Bombay 
South Parliamentary Constituency against respondent No. 2 . He used to do 
the same thing whenever there was an opportunity to speak about election . 
He was , however , not certain that respondent No. 2 would be the Congress 
candidate from Bombay - South Parliamentary Constituency. In past, respondent 
No. 2 was elected to Parliament from this Constituency . So , whenever he 
Teiterated his intention to contest the election trom Bombay - South Parliamentary 
Constituency , he assumed that respondent No . 2 would ako contest from the 
same Constituency . When asked further questions in cross - examination , ho 
said that he did not know that in the past nobody else except respondent No . 2 
had applied for a Congress ticket from this Constituency : or that sometime in 
September 1900, Congreso party invited applications from prospective oandi 
dates for election to Parliament or that respondent No. 2 was the only Congress 
candidate from Bombay - South Parliamentary Constituency . Apart from thege 
questions in cr048 - zamination to rospondent No. 1, thero lo no ovidence, ora ! 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5007 


or documentary, to show when the Congress Party invited applications from 
prospective candidates who applied for such tickets and if at all when respon 
dent No. 2 applied for such ticket. 


The argument on behalf of the petitioner then is that it is implicit from 
the heading of the article (Ex . 57) - " Why I am fighting Patil " and from the 
contents of the various paragraphs of that article that respondent No. 2 must 
have held himself out as a candidate . In this article he has stated that he had 
chosen to fight respondent No. 2 in a risky area deliberately , that he believed 
that respondent No. 2 could be defeated by the voters of South Bombay ; that 
thousands of those who voted for him in 1957 and in 1962 would not care to 
vote for him again and would like to do their best to throw him out of the 
Constituency ; that in the coming elections, there would be really a fight bet 
ween the electors of South Bombay and respondent No. 2 ; that he had no 
doubt in his mind that the people would win . These statements in article 
( Ex , 57) as well as the heading thereof do proceed OL the assumption that 
respondeat No . 2 was to be a candidate for Lok Sabha from Bombay South 
Parliamentary Constituency and the entire tenor of the article is undoubtedly 
on that footing . The explanation , however , of respondent No. 1 is that he did not 
know that respondent No. 2 on that day or any date prior thereto had hold him 
Belf out as a prospective candidate from that constituency . He merely assumed 
that fact simply because in the post elections respondent No. 2 had contested the 
election from that constituency . The fact when respondent No. 2 held himself 
out as a candidate is within his knowledge but ao evidence is brought on record 
to indicate when respondent No. 2 did so , Ag there was no date specified even 
vaguely as regards the time when respondent No. 2 is supposed to have held him 
self out as a prospective candidate , on an enquiry by me on December 12 , 1987, in 
the course of the final arguments , Mr. Jethmalani stated that it is his case that res 
pondent No . 2 held himself out as a candidate thin the meaning of section 
79 ( b ) of the Act , on or about October 14 , 1966 . Long prior to October 14, 1986 , 
respondent No. 1 has made statement wherein he has used language similar to 
that contained in article ( Ex , 57 ) of contesting the election against respondent 
No. 2 . Respondent No. 1 inagurated his election compaign for Aghting the elections 
to be hed in February 1967 as early as on August 9 , 1966 . Such inauguration of the 
campaign was done at a public meeting held at Sunderabad Hall on August 9 , 
1966 . Ex . 200 is a report of the proceedings of this meeting published in the 
issue of Maharashtra Times dated August 10 , 1966 . This report is proved as an 
accurate report of the proceedings by the evidence of Dinkar Waman Randlve 
( Ex . 199 ) , a reporter of the Maharashtra Times , who covered this meeting . The 
evidence of Randive as regards the correctness of this report is not challenged , At 
this meeting , respondent No. 1 stated that he is contesting this election against the 
Congress candidato Railway Minister Shri S . K . Patil, that in his campaign he 
would not say anything of personal nature against respondent No. 2 . He also 
suggested that both the candidates should cone on the same platform , and discuss 
about the problems facing the country ; that he is going to place the issues of 
policy in respect of Congress Goveşnment before the voter; that he is not going to 
make any propaganda of personal nature against the Railway Minister respondent 
No. 2 whom he described as his opponent; that he is not going to make any capital 
out of the recent railway accidents , but he would emphasise in his election pro 
paganda about this mismanagement about the Railway Department or the conge 
quences of the policy adopted by him when he was the Food Minister. The tenor 
of the speech of respondent No. 1 at the time of inauguration of his campaign thug 
supporto his evidence in Court that he presumed that respondent No, 2 would be 
standing as a candidate from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency . It is 
not the case of the petitioner that on August 9 , 1966 respondent No. 2 held himself 
out 88 a prospective candidate from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency 
Such a conclusion is further strengthened by the contents of the appeal ( Ex , 56 ) 
that respondent No. 1 issued to the voters . This appeal was issued to the voters on 
behalf of respondent No. 1 in different languages English , Marathi Hindi, 
Gujarati and Urdu . The evidence of respondent No. 1 shows that this appeal was 
Issued in the end of the month of August 1960 . In this appeal, respondent No. 1 
has stated : " It is this popular desire that has motivated me to clash with the 
Railway Minister S . K . Patil for the Bombay South Lok Sabha geat. This I am 
doing of course against the advice of many of my friends and well wisherg. who 
think that Patil is unbeatable — a myth I refuse to share , 

I belleve that S . K . Patil is beatable and I am gure that you — the voter from 
South Bombay — will do it. In fact, I have always considered it an insult to the 
intelligence and integrity of the South Bombay yoter when people mentioned that 
Patil Ig an unscrupulous politician and has his " ways and methods" of winning 


5098 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II. 


elections." This appeal also proceeds on the assumption that respondent No . 1 
presumed that respondent No, 2 would contest the election to Lok Sabha from 
Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency . The language of Ex . 50 for indi . 
cating the reason why he decided to stand as a candidate from Bombay South 
Parliamentary Constituency is more or less similar to that contained in the 
article ( Ex . 57 ) . It is the case of respondent No , 1 clearly in his evidence that he 
made the inauguration of his campaign issued the appeal to the voters by Ex . 56 , 
and wrote the article ( Ex , 57) because he presumed that respondent No. 2 would 
be the Congress candidate from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency . Such 
documents or statements by respondent No. 1 , however, cannot establish the time 
when respondent No. 2 held himself out as a prospective candidate . The onus of 
establishing such facts lies entirely upon the Petitioner . However, no evidence 
is led to establish this fact. 


m 


Reliance is placed upon the report published in the issue of Times of India 
dated October 17, 1966 ( Ex , X - 68 ) and the report published in the issue of Maratha 
dated October 14 , 1966 ( Ex . X - 96 ) . In the Times of India ( Ex , X -68 ) a report is 
published about the allotment of seats from various constituencies in Bombay by 

a 
i nt 

various consuencies in bombas 
Election Committee of the Bombay Pradesh Congress Committee. It also 
contains a report to thc effect : Mr. S . K . Patil, Union Minister for Railways , the 
only sitting member to be retained in the Lok Sabha list, which was released on 
Sunday in Bombay, will seek re - election from the South Bombay Constituency . 
The report further states Mr. Bhawanſi A . Khimji, a former BPCC president, told 
the Committee that Mr, Patil should be invited to contest the election from the 
South Bombay constituency . It was true that Mr. Patil had sent in a formal ap 
plication , but in view of his position in the city and stature in national politics . 
Bombay would be honouring itself by asking Mr. Patil to Ale his nomination , he 
sald . With the exception of Mr. Patil, all the other three candidates chosen for 
the Lok Sabha seats are flrst timers . This report also mentions the names of the 
various candidates for the Parliamentary Constituencies as well as the Assembly 
Constituencies. 


In the issue of Marathą dated October 14 , 1966 a rcport (Ex . X - 96 ) is published 
to the effect: " Shri Sadoba Patil gets elected from South Bombay for the Parlia 
ment and as usual he has asked for the same constituency . As there is no oppo 
nent for him in the Congress , it is quite certain that he will get the ticket." 


These Exts , X - 63 and X - 96 do show that prior to the date of this report, res 
pondent No. 2 applied for a ticket from the BPCC for contesting the election from 
Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency and if these reports are regarded as 
evidence , there can be no difficulty in holding that prior to October 14 , 1966 , being 
the date of the report (Ex, X - 96 ) respondent No . 2 applied for a ticket to the 
BPCC for contesting the election to Lok Sabha from Bombay South Parlamen 
tary Constituency. The question , however arises whether it is open to the Court 
to treat Ex , X - 96 and Ex , X -68 as evidence in the case upon mere production of 
the issues of the newspaper wherein such reports are published . Both Exs, X - 68 and 
X - 96 are news items in these respective papers and no evidence whatsoever is 
brought on record to prove the varacity of the contents of these reports Exs, X -68 
and X - 96 . The statements contained in such reports are not automatically proved 
by merely producing in Court the issues of the newspapers wherein such reports 
are published . The facts stated in Exs. X - 68 and X - 96 are not proved to be authen 
tic reports and it will not be permissible to me at the trial of this election petition 
to regard these exhibits as proved and to act upon the statement therein contained 
as true statements of facts . It is not, therefore, open to me to rely upon Exş. X - 68 
or X - 96 for arriving at a finding on the date when respondent No. 2 held himself 
out as a prospective candidate . 


Reliance was placed by Mr. Jethmalani upon the decision of the Allahabad 
High Court in the case of Emperor Vs. Jhabwala and others I. L . R . ( 1933 ) 55 
Allahabad . 1040. At pages 1070 to 1073 the Court has discussed the question of 
admissibility of a number of documents and laid down certain principles . 
Particular reliance was placed upon principles 5 and 6 enunciated in this case , 
which are as under : 
6 , Section 11 of the Act. (Evidence Act ) makes a " act” Inconsistent with any 

fact in issue or relevant fact relevant. It applied to facts not other 
wise relevant under the preceding sections. It does not make all 
documents, which make the exdstence or non - existence of a relevant 
fact probable or improbable, relevant. The expression " highly 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


9099 


probable or improbable " is significant. It indicates that the con 
nection between the facts in issue and the collateral facts sought to be 
proved must be so immediate as to render the co - existence of the two 
highly probable . The relevant facts under this section either (i ) 
exclude or ( ii ) imply more or less distinctly , the existence of the 
facts sought to be proved . 


6 . Copies of printed newspapers containing an account of some procedings, 

found in the possession of one accused , are evidence of the fact of 
the publication of such an account in that paper , but are not by them 
selves evidence of the truth of the facts stated therein , unless in con 
nection with other facts they make the existence or non -existence of 
the facts mentioned " highly probablc or improbable ." 


These principles do not assist thc Petitioner in his contention that Exs . X -60 % 
and X - 96 should be regarded as automatically proved so far as the contents there 
of are concerned by the mere production of the issues of the newspapers wherein 
they were printed . Whether the report Ex . X - 68 or Ex . X - 96 was published res 
pectively in the Times of India or in Maratha is not a matter in issue in the pre 
sent case. The matter in issue is when respondent No . 2 held himself out as a pros 
pective candidate , To establish that fact , what is relied upon is the truth of the 
statement contained in these two reports and not mere the publication of such 
reports . It was pointed out by Mr, Jethmalani that there is no evidence of 
repudiation of the statement in Exs. X -68 and X - 96 by respondent No. 2 , that there 
is no evidence to the contrary led by respondent No, I showing that respondent 
NO. 2 actually held himself out as a candidatę , at some other time that it is 
common knowledge that all political parties embarked upon selection of candi 
dates about three or four months prior to the polling day and that there is no 
evidence of repudiation or correction of these reports by the election committee 
of the BPCC or any of its member . He submitted that in view of these factors , 
the contents of Exs . X - 68 and X - 96 should be regarded as proyed. I am not 
inclined to accept such a contention . The contents of this report qua the appli 
cation of respondent No. 2 for a Congress ticket could ordinarily be proved by 
respondent No. 2 by stating when he made such an application . The same fact 
could also be proved by the election committee by pointing out the time when 
such an application was received . The factors and circumstances referred to 
above by Mr. Jethmalani cannot automatically go to prove the contents of Exs . 
X - 68 and X - 96 . 


As regards Ex . X - 96 a further contention is urged on behalf of the petitioner 
that it is an admission by Mr. Atre , the owner , editor, printer and publisher of 
the newspaper Maratha , that Mr. Atre is the agent of respondent No. 1 as that 
term is understood under the Election Law and that the admission by Mr. 
Atre is binding on respondent No. 1 . Even if Mr. Atre is regarded as the agent 
of respondent No. 1 as unclerstood under the Election Law , Ex , X - 96 is not an 
admission by Mr. Atre . Under s . 18 of the Evidence Act, statements made by 
a party , to the proceeding , or by an agent to any such party , whom tho Court 
regards, under the circumstances of the casc , as expressly or impliedly authorised 
by him to make them , are admissions. In order to be an admission under this 
gcction , the first thing to be established is that it must be a statement by the 
agent to any party . Ex , X - 96 is not a statement by Mr. Atre but it is merely a 
report of a news item published in his newspaper Maratha . It is , therefore , 
unnecessary to consider whether the other essential ingredients of section 18 are 
satisfied in this case so as to make it an admission , Reliance was also placed 
upon section 19 of the Evidence Act. Under that section slutements made by 
persons whose position or llability it is necessary to prove as against any party 
to the giut are admissions, if such statements would be relevant as against such 
persons in relation to such position or liability in a suit brought by or against 
them , and if they are made whilst the person making them occupies such position 
or is subject to such liability . The provisions of this section can only be 
attracted if it is first established that there is a statement made by a person 
whose position or liability , it is necessary to prove as against any party to the 
suit. In the present case, this is not a statement made by Mr. Atrc . The pro 
visions of s . 19 of the Evidence Act will be of no avail to the petitioner , 


5100 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II -- 

- - - -- - = = - = - = - 
In the alternative it is contended that such a report is published in the 
Maratha as a result of the information obtained by a reporter of Maratha, that 
a reporter of Maratha being employed by the editor, in the normal course of 
business should be regarded as the sub - agent of respondent No. 1 for the pur 
poses of election , and that as this is in any event an admission by a sub - agent. 
Reliance was placed upon the observation of Lush J. in Plymouth s case ( 1881 ) 
III O M , & H . 107 . at p . 108 where it is stated : It is clear law that if an agent 
of the candidate employs a sub -agent to negotiate with a voter for going to the 
poll , and the sub -agent commits an act of bribery in carrying out his commission , 
the candidate as responsible As If the act had been done by the ageat himself . 
Even if Mr. Atre is regarded as agent of respondent No. 1 as understood under. 
the Election Law , a reporter of the newspaper Maratha is not a sub - agent 
employed by Mr, Atre as the agent of respondent No. 1 in the course of his 
agency . Normally a reporter is employed by an editor and publisher of a 
newspaper for the purposes of the business . It is not simply by reason of th . 
fact that Mr. Atre is the editor, and publisher of the newspaper Maratha that 
che is to be regarded as agent of respondent No. 1 as understood under the 
Election Law . The mere Appointment of a reporter by Mr. Atre as an editor of 
Maratha will not make such reporter a sub - agent of respondeat No. 1 for the 
purpose of his election . It has further to be remonbered that . X - 96 is not th . 
report of the statement by the reporter of Maratha . So, oven to such a reporter 
is regarded as a sub - agent, it is not a statement by sub -agent. Ex . X - 98 is 
merely a publication of certain intortnation brought by or received by the reporter 
of Maratha. How such information was gathered by the reporter 18 not estab 
lished . Ex . X - 96 cannot in any event be regarded ag a statement by a sub - agent 
and the report of news Item by the sub -agent can never be regarded as an admis 
sion of a sub - agent either under section 18 or section 19 of the Evidence Act . 
The petitioner , therefore, cannot rely upon the report Es , X - 96 by the mere 
production thereof as an admission either by Mi. Atrę as agent of respondent 
No . 1 or as an admission by a reporter as sub -agent of respondent No. 1. 


There is , therefore , no evidence led in the case to establish the specific point 
of time when respondent No . 2 held himself out as a candidate . The result, 
therefore , is that the petitioner bag failed to establish that respondent No. 2 was 
a candidate within the meaning of Section 79 ( b ) of the Act at or prior to the 
time when article ( Ex . 57) was published on November 5 . 1966. 


On November 20 , 1987 during the course of the final arguments in this caso , 
an application was filed on behalf of the Petitioner for raising an additional 
issue as regards the time when respondent No. 2 held himselt out as a pros 
pective candidate or in any event to allow the petitioner to lead further formal 
evidence as the fact - of respondent No . 2 being a candidate within the meaning 
of section 79 ( b ) of the Act prior to November 1, 1966 or in the alternative to 
re - call respondent No. 2 and receive evidence in support of the above fact . 
Such an application was strenuously resisted on behalf of respondent No. 1. 
By my order dated December 21 , 1967 I rejected this application and directed 
that the reasons for such rejection would be given in the final judgment. 


The stage at which this application is made 18 puch that the Court will 
not ordinarily be inclined to grant such an application . The actual hearing of 
this election petition started on August 24 , 1967 and on the next day the evidence 
of the petitioner commenced . The evidence of witnesses called by the petitioner 
was taken from day to day thereafter. On October 6 , 1987 , the petitioner closed 
his case, On October 9 , 1987, the Counsel on behalf of respondent No . 1 opened 
his case and in the course of this opening he pointed out that there was no 
evidence as regards the time when respondent No. 2 held himself out as a candi 
date . On that very day , the evidence of respondent No. 1 commenced and in the 
course of his evidence , he stated that he merely presurned on the date when 
he wrote article (Ex . 57 ) that respondent No. 2 would be the Congress candidate 
from the Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency 88 in the past elections, 
respondent No. 2 was contesting the seat from that Constituency and that ho 
did no know that on that day respondent No. 2 held himselt out as such candi 
date . On October 24, 1987 the last witness on behalf of respondent No. 1 was 
examined and thereafter the Court was closed for the Ootober Vacation . On 
the re - opening of the Court on November 8 , 1987, the anal arguments on behalt 
of respondent No. 1 commenced. This contention that the petitioner has failed 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARIIKA 25, 1890 5101 
-- - - - - - - - 3 - - .. - .. = . . - = - 

- - -- - - - - - 
to establish that on the date when article ( Ex . 67 ) was published , respondent 
No. 2 held himself out as a prospective candidate was argued fully on Novem 
ber 7 , 1967 and it was therealler on November 20 , 1967 whue the further argu 
ments on behalf of respondent No . 1 were going on that the present application 
has been made. This duuwuedly shows that the present application has been 
made at a very late stage in the trial of this petition , 


Under the Act, the obligation to state all material facts on which the petitioner 
relics is cast upon bim . However, there is no averment in the petition when 
Iesponuen . No. 2 held himself out as a prospective candidate . A written state 
me. it is also fled on behalf of respondent No . 2 and even in this written state 
ment, the time when he held himself out as a prospective candidate is not 
stated . When the lasues were settled in this case Op or about July 3 , 1967 1 
enquired of the Counsel from both sides whether they desired a separate issuo 
to be raised about each ingredient of a corrupt practice pleaded in the caso 
and both the Counsel informed me that it was not necessary to do so . Under 
the circumstances , on that day , when the issues raised on beball of respondent 
No . 1 were settled , composite or comprehensive issue was raised in respect of 
each corrupt practice pleaded in the petition . It was clear to both the partie 
that a composite issue of such a nature was wide enough to include within its 
scope every ingredient of a corrupt practice required under the Act. It is 
therefore unnecessary to raise an independent issue as regardo the time when 
respondent No . 2 held himself out as a prospective candidate . Such an issue is 
already covered by the issues raised in the present case . 


Even when an application for an amendment of the petition by introducing 
paragraph 2 - L was made by the Chamber Summons, the petitioner did not 
state in that paragraph , the time when respondent No. 2 held himself out as a 
candidate . In the supplementary written statement Aled on behalf of respondent 
No, 1, he has contended that article ( Ex. 57 ) was published much prior to the 
date of the election and the procalamation by the President calling upon the 
voters of the Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency to elect the represen 
tative to Lok Sabha and is , theretore , Irrelevant and immaterial for the purpose 
of this petition . A further submission is made in this paragraph that all state 
ments , allegations and public speeches made by respondent No. 1 prior to the 
date of the election and the proclamation by the President calling upon the voters 
of the Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency to elect their representative 
to Lok Sabha are irrelevant and immaterial to the petition . In respect of the 
averments in paragraph 2 - L of the Petition , having regard to the method adopted 
for settling issues on the earlier date , only a comprehensive and composite issuo 
was raised and no separate issue was raised as regards each ingredient of tho 
corrupt practice required to be proved in the case . In spite of there being 
a distinct plea in the supplementary written statement of respondent No . 1 that 
all statements, allegations and public speeches made by respondont No. 1 prior 
to the date of the election and the proclamation by the President calling upon 
the voters of Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency to elect their represen 
tative to Lok Sabha are irrelevant and immaterial to the case , no evidence was 
led on behalf of the petitioner pointing out the time when respondent No. 2 
held himself out as a candidate . Even when the case was opened by Counsel 
for respondent No . 1 , the contention that the petitioner har falled to establish 
that respondent No, 2 was a candidate prior to the publication of article ( Ex . 57) 
was raised and evidence to support that contention WAG actually led on October 
9 , 1987 when respondent No. 1 was in the witness box . Thus the petitioner and 
full knowledge of the contention latended to be raised on behalf of respondent 
No. 1. In fact , respondent No . 1 has been cross -examined on his evidence on 
this point, but at that stage , the petitioner did not think of amending this 
Petition or of an additional issue to be raised or of further evidence to be led , 


Reference was made to several cases arising both under the Code of Civil 
Procedure as well as the Code of Criminal Procedure , but it is unnecessary to 
refer to each one of them as the principles are judicially well settled . In Shamu 
Patter v . Abdul Kadir Ravuthan ( 1912 ) 39 I. A . 218 , one of the grounds on which 
the judgment was inter alia challenged was that the subordinate Judge acted 
irregularly and without jurisdiction in framing an issue after the close of the 
arguments and deciding the case on it . With regard to this contention Their 
Lordships pointed out that s . 149 of the Civil Procedure Code (Act XIV . of 1882 ) 


102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 PART II. 


which is applicable to the proceedings , is conclusive. That section declares tha ; 
the Court may at any time before passing a decree amend the issues or frame 
additional issues on such terms as it thinks fit, and all such amendments or 
additional issues as may be necessary for determining the controversy between 
the parties shall be so made or framned . The first part of the section leaves it 
in the discretion of the Court to frame such additional issues as it thinks fit, 
whilst the latter makes it Imperative on the Judge to frame such additional 
issues as may be necessary to determine the controversy between the parties 
The Subordinate Judge was , thercfore , fully empowered to frame the issue on 
which he decided the case . 

The present application is not merely restricted to the framing of additional 
issue but is for perinitting the petitioner to lead further evidence on this issue 
or in the alternative , for re - calling respondent No . 2 in that behalf . Ag indicated 
earlier , a composite and comprehensive issue No. 42 is wide enough to include 
the contention , wivether respondent No. 2 was a candidate within the meaning 
of the Act at the time when article ( Ex . 57) was published. It was unnecessary 
to raise an independent issue of that nature in connection with this particular 
corrupt practice as at the suggestion of Counsel of both the sides , a comprehensive 
issue of the nature settled in this petition is regarded as wide enough to include 
a contention in respect of every essential ingredient of a corrupt practice required 
by the Act. Shamu Patter s case is not a case where the party had asked 
for liberty to lead further evidence at a late stage. That was merely a case 
for framing, an additional issue, 

Strong reliance was placed on an unreported decision of the Supreme 
Court in the case of Jamatraj Kewalji Govani v . State of Maharashtra , Criminal 
Appeal No . 217 of 1966 decided on April 4 , 1967. This was a case of a prose 
cution for offences committed under sections 135 ( a ) and 135 (b ) of the Cus 
toms Act , 1962. The facts of that case show that on November 16 , 1964, the 
shop of the appeilant Goyani was searched by the Enforcement Branch of the 
Reserve Bank of India , nothing incriminating from the point of view of the 
Reserve Bank way found in the shop but a large number of watches , clocks, 
cigarette lighters , cameras, transistors , tape recorders etc , were found ; that 
Information was given to the customs authorities ; that the Assistant Collec 
tor of Customs thereupon issued a warrant for search of the premises under 
section 115 of the Customs Act, that it was stated in the warrant that there 
were reasons to believe that prohibited and dutiable goods liable to confisca 
tion and documents and things useful for and relevant to the proceedings were 
secreted in the shop ; these goods were thereafter seized ; procecdings for con 
fiscation of the goods and for penalties were commenced against Govani; in 
those proceedings Govani could not prove that the goods had borne the neces 
sary customs duties ; after obtaining the necessary sanction for prosecution , 
criminal proceedings were adopted against Govani for the offences under the 
above mentioned sections of the Customs Act; at the trial two witnesses were 
examined ; the Preventive Officer , Customs, Ranade deposed to the geizure of 
the goods as the search was under the directions of Dutta . Preventive Addi 
tional Chief Inspector . In his evidence , he admitted that it was Dutta , who 
decided which of the watches should be seized and which were to be released ; 
the other witness only proved the seizure of the contraband goods and the 
exhibits in the case. In his statement under S . 342 of the Code of Criminal 
Procedure . the accused Govani stated that the burden would have been on 
him to prove that the goods had been customed provided 
the goods had been seized under the Act in the reasonable belief 
that they were smuggled goods; but no witness had dcposed to such 
belief. Such a statement on behalf of the accused was filed on July 15 , 1965 , 
On the following day, the prosecution applicd for the examination of Dutta , 
Inspector of Customs, Bombay, as a court witness in the interests of justice , 
to prove reasonable belief at the time when the goods were seized . That 
applicalion was granted and after taking the further evidence , the accused 
was convicted and sentenced to fine as well as imprisonment on both the 
counts and the watches were ordered to be confiscated . Govani appealed to 
the High Court , His main contention was that the evidence of Dutta was 
Iinproperly received by the Magistrate and should be excluded from considera 
tion , The High Court rejected this contention and upheld the conviction . An 
appeal to the Supreme Court was also dismissed . The Supreme Court pointed 
out that this was not a case in which the prosecution was trying to fill up the 
gap ; in the present case , the circumstances already deposed to by Ranade and 
otherwise on record clearly established that some one must have seized the watches 
entertaining the belief that they were smuggled. This belief wag obviously 
entertained by Dutta . The Court was right in thinking that the just deci 
sion of the case required that the nature of the belief underlying the seizure 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 23 , 1890 


5103 


should be before it on oath of the ptrson making the seldure so that Governi 
might be required , as the policy of the Customs Act, 1962 requires , to prova 
his innocent possession . As Govani had no defence bevond taking advantage 
of the inadvertant omission , the Court took the view that the defence had no 
merit and the conviction was upheld . The Supreme Court Approved of the 
Observations of Tindal C .J . In Reg. v . Frost, 4 St. Tr. ( N . S .) 86 at p . 338 , which 
are oft quoted : 


There is no doubt that the general rule is that where the Crown begins 

its case like a plaintiff in a civil sult, they cannot afterwards 
support their case by calling fresh witnesses, because they are 
met by certain evidence that contradicts it. They stand or fall 
by the evidence they have given , They must close their case 
before the defence begins; but if any matter arises er improviso , 
which no human ingenuity can foresee , on the part of a defen 
dant in a civil suit, or a prisoner in a criminal case , there seems 
to me no reason why that mater which so arose ex improviso 
inay not be answered by contrary evidence on the part of the 
Crown . 


These ovservations show that the matter inust arise ex improviso which 
nc liuinan ingenuity can foresee . In the present case , in the supplemental 
writton statement of respondent No. 1 it is one of his contentions that state 
nients published and speeches made prior to the date of the election and the 
proclamation of the President calling upon the voters of the Bombay South 
Parliainentary Constituency to elect their representative to Lok Sabha are 
irrelevant and immaterial to the petition . When the case was opened on 
behalf of respondent No. 1 , thig plea in the form in which it was ultimately 
argued was specifically raised and on that very day when the evidence - in 
chief of respondent No. 1 was given , he deposed about these facts . Even at 
that stage , no application was made of the nature now made . On the contrary , 
the petitioner proceeded with the trial and cross -examined respondent No . 1 
on the evidence so given by him . This is a case where in any event, after the 
Counsel for respondent No. 1 opened his case and started leading his evi 
dence , the petitioner knew that it was one of his contentions that on the day 
when article ( Ex . 57 ) was published, respondent No. 2 had not held himself 
out as a prospective candidate . This is not a case where the petitioner was 
taken by surprise only by an argument in the course of the final address . 
Undoubtedly respondent No. 1 is taking advantage of the absence of evidence 
led on behalf of the petitioner but I cannot permit the petitioner to lead fur 
ther evidence to All in the gaps in his case which may be realised after the 
trial has gone on at great length , after respondent No. 1 closed his case and 
after the contention on his behalf was fully argued . It was because of these 
reasons that I disallowed the application made for framing an additional issue 
or for permitting the petitioner to lead further evidence or for re- calling res 
pondent No . 2 for further examination , 


The last ingredient that has to be considered in connection with the state 
ment complained of is whether it is reagcnably calculated to prejudice the 
prospect of respondent No. 2 s election . The only averment in this behalt in 
paragraph 2L is that the wide publicity given to the false allegation inevitably 
must have affected the result of the election . In his evidence respondent No. 2 
stated that the varicus false statements made by respondent No. 1 which he 
referred to in his evidence ( including article Ex . 57) were made maliciously 
and deliberately with a view that his chances at the election may be damaged 
and those of respondent No. 1 may be enhanced and that they have in fact 
Gamaged his prospects at the election . The words in section 123 ( 4 ) are that 
the statement of fact must be a statement reasonably calculated to preju 
dice the prospects of that candidate s election " . A division Bench of this 
Court in Dattatrava v . Dattatraya AIR . 1964 Bombay 244 had occasion to 
consider the ecect and meaning of these words. It is there stated ; The Legis . 
lature having in its wisdom used the expression " calculated " and not " design 
ed " or " intended it would be reasonable to hold that what is provided in 
sub - section ( 4 ) is that the publication of false statement of fact relating to 
the personal character or conduct must be such as would in the estimation 
of the Court , having regard to the nature of the publication , evidence tendered 
in Court and the surrounding circumstances have its natural and probable 
consequence of prejudicing the prospects of the candidate relating to whose 
personal character or conduct the publication has been made . . . . . . . 
In defining corrupt practice , the emphasis is not so much on the intention of 
a publisher of a false statement of fact relating to the personal character or 


1504 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968/KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II — 


conduct of a candidate , but the emphasis is on the probable consequences of 
prejudicing the prospects of the candidate by such a publication . . . . . . . 
whatever be the intention of a publisher , if the patural and probable conse 
quences of the publication of a false statement relating to the personal charac 
ter or conduct be of prejudicing the minds of the voters the election cannot 
be said to be a free one. If on the other hand the reasonable and probable 
coilsequences are not likely to be 60 and yet the election has to be set asido 
merely because the publisher intended it to be so, the verdict given by the 
voters would be set at paught without just cause . A little later it is pointed 
out - -What the Court has to decide in short is what would , in the arcums 
tances of the case, be the effect of the impact of the publication lett on the minds 
of the voters at the time they vote . Would it be such as would prejudice 
the voters against the candidate relatng to whom he publication has been made ? 
I the result of the inquiry would be that such would be the case , then the publi 
cation would be such which could be reasonably calculated to prejudice tho 
prospects of the candidate . If on the other hand , the conclusion reached would 
be the effect of the impact would not and could not be of such a nature in tho 
circumstances of the case, then the finding will have to be that the publication 
is not such which can be reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of th . 
candidate . In other words, the Court has to determine what would be the effect 
of the impact of the publication left on the minds of the voters at the time of 
casting their votes. The circumstances which would have a bearing on the 
determination of this question would , in our opinion , be the relevant circum 
stances for the decision of this issue. The Court would , in the first instance 
ask the question what is the reaction on the candidate himself of the publication . 
Does he think that it is likely to prejudice his prospects or does he not think 
80 ? Has he published any contradiction ? What is the reaction of his election 
agent and the supporters of the candidate ? What have they done in this matter ? 
What is the proximity of the date of the publication to the date of election ? 
What is the nature of the allegations contained in the publication ? It is indeed 
true that the Court would not blindly accept the candidate s or his election 
agent s evidence that It affected or prejudice his prospects, or blindly accept tho 
statement of the publisher , that it did not prejudice the prospects of the candi 
date relating to whom the publicaion has been made . 


The argument on behalf of respondent No. 1 is that the principles laid down 
in Dattatraya s case are no longer good law in view of the decision of the Supreme 
Court in Sheopal Singh y . Ram Pratap , A . I. R . 1965 S . C . 677 . The contention is 
that the word " calculated " means designed , and if it is the intention of the 
publisher to prejudice the prospect of the candidate s election that by itself is 
alone suficient to come to the conclusion that the statement is reasonably calcu 
lated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate s election and it is unnecessary 
to inquire about the reasonable and probable consequences of publication of such 
a statement. This contention , in my opinion , 19 partly correct and partly in 
correct. The decision relied upon shows that the intention of the publisher is 
undoubtedly a relevant factor but the effect of the decision is to make the 
requirement a little more stringent. The result is that it should be established 
that the reasonable and probable confequences of the publication are likely 
to prejudice the prospects of the candidate s election and such was also the 

tention of the publisher , 


In Sheopal Singh s case , the Supreme Court pointed out that the word " calcu . 
lated " meang designed , it denotes more than more likelihood and imports a : 
design to affect voters . It connotes a subjective element, though the actual 
effect of the statement on the electoral mind reflected in the result may afford 
a basło to ascertain whether the said statement was reasonably calculated to 
achieve that effcect . The emphasis is on the calculated effect, not on the actual 
result, though the latter proves the former . But what is important to notice is 
that it is not necesgary to establish by positive evidence that the voters , with 
the knowledge of the contents of the statement, were deflected from voting for 
the candidate against whom the statement was made . 


The effect of this decision is that there should be both intention and llkell 
hood, but the actual result need not be established . As Interpreted by the Sup 
Teme Court , to fulal this requirement were probable consequences may not be 
enough . The intention should also be established . At the same time, mero 
intention simplicitor is also not enough , 


SBC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


SIOS 


For determining the intention regard can be had to the principle that a man 
je presumed to intend the normal consequence of his act and that the proof of 
such intention can be had trom the reasonable and probable consequence of 
his act . 


Reference was made to the various circumstances referred to in Dattatrya s 
case which would enable the Court to come to a conclusion whether the state . 
ment la reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate s 
election . First, it is pointed out that the article ( Ex . 57 ) was published in the 
issue of Blitz on November 5 , 1966 while the polling took place on February 21 , 
1966 . It was pointed out that there was thus a time lag of about 3 months 
between the date of the publication and the polling day. It is not the case 
of the petitioner that these allegations were repeated by respondent No . 1 there 
after . The absence of repetition and the time lag between the date of the pub 
lication and the polling day is the factor to be taken into account in judging the 
reagonable and probable consequence of the publication . The further circumstance 
to be considered is what was the re -action of the candidata or his election agent 
to the publication , Evidence of regpondent No. 2 shows that when his attention 
was drawn to some part of article ( Ex . 57 ) , he did not immediately go to his 
lawyers to take action against reapondent No . 1 as at that time he was busy . 
with his election and it was not possible for him to go to the lawyers at that 
time. In spite of his attention being drawn, there was no contradiction of the 
statement being made nor was any action taken by respondent No. 2 or his election 
agent. This inaction on the part of respondent No . 2 may be contrasted with 
the complaint that he filed against Mr. Madhu Limaye when allegations about 
associating his name in Amichand Pyarelal s traud in relation to rice import 
were made, Ex, X - 4 ls alleged to be the statement made by Mr. Madhu Limaya 
on December 10 , 1966 . ( It le , however , not proved that such a statement was 
made by Mr. Madhu Limaye ag alleged ) . On the next day , a complaint was filed 
In the Court of the Presidency Magistrate against Mr. Madhu Limaye for defa 
mation for such a statement The other circumstance that has to be noted is 
that even though the petitioner and respondent No . 2 were aware of the allega 
tions made in article ( E . 57 ) round about the time when his article was pub 
Ushed , no reference thereto is to be found in the petition as originally Aled .. The 
evidence of the petitioner shows that he was aware of the allegations made in 
article ( Ex . 67) round about the time when it was published , that he had brought 
these allegationg to the notice of his Counsel when he gave instructions for draft 
ing the petition , that in spite of such instructions no reference to these allegations 
is to be found when the petition was presented to this Court, that he was unable 
to give any reason why reference to these allegations was omitted at the time 
when the petition was Aled in spite of specific instructions to the Counsel. The 
Evidence of regpondent No. 2 also shows that even though the points taken up in 
the petition were brought to his notice when the draft of the petition was prepared , 
he did not consider it necessary to make suggestion for incorporating such a plea 
in the petition . His evidence also shows that the gist of article ( Ex . $ 7 ) was 
brought to his notice within three or four days of its publication and he read the 
whole of the article for the Arst time round about the time when the petition 
was Aled . He has also said that the portion relating to him was marked with 
double red pencil, in the gist that was brought to his notice . His evidence also 
shows that before the petition was Aled he had a talk with the lawyer for the 
petitioner about Aminchand Pyarelal. However , he did not read the whole of the 
petition before it was Aled but his son - in - law Mr. Patkar and the petitioner told 
him about the points that were in the petition . Thus not only no action was 
taken either by regpondent No . 2 or his election agent at or about the time when 
bis attention was drawn to the article ( Es. 57 ) but no reference to this article 
was made in the petition when it wag Initially filed even though both the peti 
tloner and respondent No . 2 had talk with the lawyer in connection with this 
article . The evidence further shows that it was later on when the entire article 
was placed in his hands that respondent No . 2 thought it necegsary to incorporate 
this plea in his written statement and when the 1sgue on bis written statement 
was not permitted to be raised at the time of settling the issues , he suggested 
to the petitioner to incorporate in the petition the plea that he had taken in his 
written atatement. Even the statementa lsgued by respondent No . 2 prior to the 
polling day show that he did not consider that the statements published by res 
pondont No . 1 by article ( c . 57) were likely to prejudice his prospects at elec 
tion . A report is published in the issue of Loksatta dated February 2 , 1967 of 
the statement made by respondent No. 2 . That report is Ex . 120 . This report 
has reference to a statement made by respondent No. 2 deprecating the action 
of a person throwing a stone at the Prime Minister Mrs. Indira Gandhi at 


5106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 PART II -- 

- - -- - = 
Bhavaneshwar , He contrasted in this statement the nature of the election pro 
pened in Bombay barring some petly incidents ; after a certain meeting was over , 
violent incidents were happening in the country , no violent incidents have hap 
pened in Bombay barring some petty incidents : after a certain 

meeting was over , 
some people attacked Shri Babubhal Chinoi, but they were found to be drunkards 
nobody should be blamed for that; on the whole , the standard of propaganda in 
Bombay is good and he hoped the same will be maintained upto the 18th . In the 
course of his statement, he expressed his confidence that there was no doubt that 
the Congress will win all the 32 seats in Bombay . That this is a correct report of 
the statement made by him is evident from his testimony , though a little later 
in his cross - examination he desired to make a distinction as regards the meaning 
to be attributed to the word propaganda in his statement. He said that by the 
words " standard of propaganda in Bombay is good " he wanted to convey that 
the meetings in Bombay were peaceful and good . He said that the word Pro 
paganda applies to meetings as well as other things ; the word propaganda in 
cludes posters , articles , handbills issued by either of the candidates at the election 
When he was asked whether by the word standard was meant level of the pro 
paganda, he replied that by the word standard he meant everything that it 
meant; he used that word only in reference to meetings . Even after the polling, 
respondent No. 2 expected to win the election by a very big margin , after having 
come to know that out of a total electorate of 4 ,58 lacs about 60 to 65 per cent. 
of the voters from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency went to the Polls . 
On the night of the polling day , respondent No. 2 said that he expected to win 
the Bombay South Parliamentary Seat by a margin of about 50 ,000 votes . A 
report of this statement is to be found in the issue of Free Press Journal dated 
February 22 , 1967 ( Ex , 120 ) . When respondent No . 2 was shown the report 
Ex. 126 he said that he did not show pessimism at that stage , that he was not 
then sure because the magnitude of the damage was to be revealed only after 
wards, that on that day he felt that he would win by over 50 ,000 votes because 
that was the margin with which he always won . These statements of respondent 
No. 2 undoubtedly have to be taken into account while estimating the reasonable 
and probable consequences of the statement published by respondent No . 1 
through the article ( Ex . 57 ) . The statements made by respondent No. 2 even 
after the result of the election was declared also go to show that he did not at 
that stage try to connect his defeat at the election to any malpractice on the 
part of respondent No. 1 by false propaganda . At a certain stage while counting 
of votes was going on the result of the poll was fairly well anticipated . At that 
stage respondent No, 2 made a statement, report of which is to be found in the 
issue of Free Press Journal of February 24, 1967 ( Ex . 128 ) . At this time he said 
that the voters have rejected him as the representative to the Parliament, that he 
had served the City for the past 46 years honestly and devotedly ; despite that 
verdict it would be his constant endeavour to serve them even more than what 
he had done in the past. He said that he had disappointed numerous workers 
and friends who helped him at the election and they would pardon him . In the 
evidence , he said that by the words " I have disappointed them , they will pardon 
me" , he meant that they wanted him to be elected but he was defeated . When 
hę was asked why at that time he did not say that the voters of Bombay South 
Parliamentary Constituency had rejected him as a representative to Parliament 
because they were fooled by false propaganda, he said that it was highly undig 
nified to say such a thing at that time, it depended upon the way of looking at 
a thing why a statement of truth may look undignified at a particular time, 


A report of the statement made by respondent No. 2 after the result of the 
election was declared was published in the issue of Bharat Jyoti dated February 
26 , 1967 ( Ex . 129 ) . This exhibit shows that referring to his own defect , respon 
dent No. 2 said that it was not the individual but the institution that mattered , 
" I shall never leave the Congress . There is no reason to mourn because I am 
defeated . I might have committed some sins for which God has punished me, 
I pray to the same Almighty to glve me strength ." Respondent No, 2 was asked : 
" When you said in this statement that you may haye committed some sing for 
which God has punished you . Was the punishment by God referred to in his 
allowing you to get defeated at the election or anything else ? " He said in his 
humble opinion . this was the way of expression of those who believe in God , 
By the words. " I might have committed some sins" he did not mean others had 
committed sins which resulted in his defeat. He explained the statement by 
gaying that when it was made he regarded it undienifed to say that others made 
false propaganda against him at the election . 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5107 


• There is some other report in that issue of Bharat Jyoti dated February 26 , 
1967 , which goes to show that respondent No. 2 applied his mind to the factors 
which defeated him at the polls . Ex , 130 is the report of the statement of res 
pondent No. 2 published in the issue of Bharat Jyoti dated February 26 , 1967 . 
This exhibit shows that respondent No. 2 hinted that he might refer to the Elec 
tion Commission a number of malpractices that had been drawn to his atten 
tion regarding the parliamentary election in South Bombay . He said some persons 
who were not alive, had been shown as voters , some who did not belong to that 
area at all had come and cast their votes there . He added : " I personally suspect 
something . It is for the Election Commission to consider the inatter " . In this 
context, he mentioned that if more than 1,000 bogus voters were discovered , the 
whole election would have to be gone through again . Respondent No. 2 sald 
that this report in Bharat Jyoti (Ex. 130 ) is substantially a correct report , but 
the figure of 1, 000 bogus voters is not correct . He did not mention any figure of 
bogus voters. He did not remember whether on this occasion he said that one 
of the mal -practices was that there was false propaganda against him in respect 
of his personal character . A suggestion was made to him that after hc consulted 
his lawyers that he came out with the theme that he was defeated at the election 
on account of the false propaganda against him in relation to personal character 
and that had materially all ected his prospects at the election . He categorically 
denied the correctness of such an allegation , 


themor 


months spect " in 


These are the circumstances to be taken into account for judging whether the 
statement made by respondent No . 1 in gublishing the article ( Ex . 57 ) were 
reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospect of respondent No. 2 s clection . 
There was a time lag of about 3 months between the publication of this state 
ment and the polling day . Though thic attention of respondent No , 2 was pointed 
ly drawn to the statements made in this article , he appears to have ignored them 
and took no action thereon , that even when the petition was drafted by the law 
yers of the petitioner, this article was present to the mind of the petitioner as 
well as respondent No, 2 but no grievance was made that by publishing this false 
statement, respondent No. 1 committed any corrupt practice . Article ( Ex . 57 ) is 
not at all referred to in the election petition as initially Aled ; that during the 
election period , respondent No . 2 considered that the standard of election pro 
paganda in Bombay was good even though his attention was drawn to the gist of 
article Ex . 57; that even on the night of the polling day respondent No. 2 expected 
to win by a margin of at least 50, 000 votes. His immcdiate re- action after the 
result of the poll was declared was that the yoters of Bombay ( South ) have 
rejected him , that he might have committed some sins for which God has punished 
him , that when his attention was drawn to some of the malpractices at the elec 
tion he referred to the extent of bogus voting at the poll but did not refer to 
publication of a false statement in relation to his personal character and conduct 
as a malpractice , 


17th January 1968. 
These factors and circumstances militate against the conclusion that the 
statements in the article ( Ex . 57) were made with a view that the chances of 
respondent No . 2 at the election may be damaged or that they have in fact 
damaged his prospects at the election . While considering this ingredient, the 
emphasis is on the calculated cffect and not on the actual result , though the latter 
proves the former. In the present case the petitioner has falled to establish that 
the statements quoted in paragraph 2L of the petition are reasonably calculated 
to prejudice the prospects of respondent No. 2 s election . 


The argument then was that the theme of this article ( Ex . 57 ) was kept alive 
by other prominent leaders of the party to which respondent No. 1 belonged . 
It was said that Dr. Lohia repeated the allegations in Parliament on December 1 , 
1967 ; that on coming to know of this statement, the next day in Parliament 
respondent No. 2 put forth a challenge to Dr. Lohia to repeat the allegation 
outside the House in order that appropriate action may be taken against him . 
It is further alleged on behalf of the petitioner that similar allegations were 
repeated by Mr. Madhu Limaye as was purported to be shown by Ex . X - 4 (which 
is not proved ) and respondent No . 2 Aled a criminal complaint against him for 
making such allegations. It is further said that in the issue of Maratha dated 
February 14 , 1987 ( Ex . X - 7 ) it is reported that respondent No . 2 could not reply 
as to where the large quantity of rice in transit transhipped by A . P , J . Transport 
Co . went underground and to what extent respondent No. 2 and how many Food 
Ministers after him had been involved in that matter . These statements by Dr . 


sim8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART 1I- - 
SS 
Vonia , Mr. Madhu Limaye and the report in Maratha (Ex , X - 7 ) are not relied 
upon by the petitioner as independent jastances of the corrupt practice . Res 
pondent No. 1 cannot be saddled with liability of what Dr. Lohia or Mr, Madhu 
Limaye said or are alleged to have said or for what was published in Maratha 
dated February 14 , 1967. The reasonable and probable consequences of publica 
tion of article ( Ex. 57 ) are merely to be judged having regard to the various 
circumstances attending thereto and while judging such consequences of what 
Dr. Lohia or Mr. Madhu Linaye said or what was published in Maratha ( Ex . 
X - 7 ) cannot be taken into account . 

The above discussion shows that the several essential ingredients of a corrupt 
practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act are not established in the present case 
in relation to the publication of the article ( Ex , 57 ) in the issue of Blitz dated 
November 5 , 1966 . The result , therefore , is that the charge levelled against res 
pondent No. 1 in paragraph 2L of the petition is not proved and established . 

This brings us to the second instance of a corrupt practice under section 123 (4 ) 
of the Act . It relates to a speech made by respondent No. 1 at a public meeting 
held at Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967. This meeting was addressed not only 
by respondent No. 1 but also by the other prominent opposition candidates . viz ., 
Acharya Atre , M . R . Gokhale , Dange and Krishna Menon . 


No averments were made in the petition when it was presented in connection 
with this speech made by respondent No. 1 at the Shivaji Park meeting. In 
paragraph 2J of the petition It iş averred that false statements in relation to 
character and conduct of respondent No. 2 were made by respondent No. 1 and 
at the instance and connivance of respondent No. 1 , Maratha published certain 
articles , extracts of which are therein reproduced . These extracts do not refer 
to the report of the speech made by respondent No. 1 at the meeting at Shivaji 
Park . At the end of this paragraph 2J It is pleaded that similar false statements 
in relation to resondent No. 2 s character and conduct were published in the 
various issues of the daily Maratha . Dates of about 34 issues of Maratha are 
thereafter given . But the reports relled upon were neither referred to in para 
graph 2J of the petition nor were the relevant extracts therefrom annexed as annex 
ures to the petition . Thus when the petition was presented on April 7, 1967, 
it was not clearly pleaded that the petitioner had an intention to rely upon the 
speech mado by respondent No . 1 at the Shivaji Park meeting held on 
January 31, 1987 as an instance of a corrupt practice Under Section 123 ( 4 ) . 
At or about the time when the issues were being settled in this petition , 
the petitioner was given liberty to annex to the petition the relevant 
extracts from the issues of Maratha referred to in paragraph 2J of the petition 
which he wanted to rely upon . That liberty was given after the expiry of the 
period of 45 days from the date of declaration of the result which is the pres 
cribed period for presenting the election petition to challenge the validity of 
the election . Pursuant to this liberty , one of the extracts relied upon in Ex . E 
to the petition is an extract from the issue of Maratha dated February 1 , 1907 
qontaining the following words : 
" Patil has a technique of winning elections. He divides the linguistic 

group . , . . It is true that even God cannot defeat Patil because God 

cannot exchange ballot boxes. He (God ) is honest un ] tke Patil. . ..." 
In view of the vagueness of the averments in paragraph 2J of the petition , 
by Advocate s letter dated July 3 , 1967 (part of Ex . 66 ) respondent No. 1 required 
the petitioner s Advocate to furnish particulars inter alia as regards the time, 
day and place where the false statements in relation to the character and conduct 
of respondent No. 2 were made by respondent No. 1 . These particulars were 
turnished by the petitioner s Advocate s letter dated August 4 , 1987 ( also part 
of the same . 06 ) . Item 1 of paragraph 11 of this letter gave the particulars 
about this meeting . It says that a meeting was held at Shivaji Park in the 
evening of January 31, 1967, that Mr. Rajant Patel was the President at this 
meeting and that respondent No. 1 , Atre, Dange, Gokhale and V , K . Krishna 
Menon were the speakers at this meeting. The petitioner , however , did not 
aonsider it necessary to reproduce here the quotation of the speech of respon 
dent No. 1 which , according to him , constituted the corrupt practice. 

While the evidence of the petitioner was being taken on September 12 , 1967, 
an application for amendment of the petition was made on behalf of the petitioner, 
By my order dated September 10 , 1967, I partly allowed that arendment applica 
tion . One of the paragraphs added to the petitition pursuant to this order is para 
graph 2J ( 1) . In this paragraph the petitioner has pleaded the statements made 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KAR TIKA 25, 1890 


5:19 


To 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


by respondent No. 1 at this meeting which , according to him , constitute the 
corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) . It is ayerred in paragraph 2J ( i ) : During 
the course of his address , respondent No. 1 stated that respondent No. 2 used 
dishonest means and techniques to win the elections. He clearly insinuated that 
respondent No. 2 won elections by tampering with the ballot boxes or substituted 
the same. Respondent No. 1 further stated that even God could not defeat 
respondent No. 2 because unlike respondent No. 2 , God was not dishonest. In 
substance the respondent No. 1 alleged during the course of his address that res 
pondent No. 2 was a man of Icw character and that he had stooped to commission 
of criminal offences with the object of winning elections . The said allegation 
was clearly false and the same are false statements of facts in relation to perso 
nal character of respondent No. 2 within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the 
Act . Respondent No . 1 deliberately and maliciously made the said statements . 
Hc belleved them to be false and he did not believe them to be true. The report 
of the above speech was published in the issue of Maratha dated February 1, 
1987. By his further supplementary written statement filed on September 22 , 
1967 respondent No. 1 denied having uttered the words attributed to him in 
paragraph 2J ( i ) of the petition during the course of his speech at this meeting. 
His contention in this written statement is that he never made the statements 
which are pleaded in paragraph 2J ( i) . So , the question whether the statements 
are false or that he believed them to be false or did not believe them to be true 
or that they are in relation to the personal character of respondent No. 2 did not 
arise . He alleged that the report published in Maratha dated February 1, 1967 
which was referred to in Ex . E to the petition was not a correct report of his 
speech at this meeting . 

The contention on behalf of resnondent No. 1 at the trial is that during the 
course of his speech at Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967. he did not utter the 
words which are attributed to him in paragraph 2J ( 1) of the petition . Alterna 
tively , it is submitted on his behalf that in case the Court takes the view that 
those words were used by him in the course of his speech , they are merely an 
expression of opinion and do not amount in law to publication of a statement of 
fact ; that it is not averred in the petition nor is it proved at the trial that res 
pondent No. 2 was a candidate when respondent No. 1 made this speech at the 
Shivaji Park meeting and that it is not averred in the petition that the woris 
uttered by him at this meeting were reasonably calculated to prejudice the pros 
pects of respondent No. 2 s election . 

There is considerable evidence both documentary and oral led as regards the 
speech made by respondent No. 1 at this meeting. The documentary evidence 
primarily consists of the proved reports of the speech of respondent No. 1 which 
are published in various newspapers on the next day. These reports are pub 
lished in the issue of Indin Express dated February 1 , 1967 (Ex . 166 ) , in the 
Issue of Times of India of the same date ( Ex . 178 ) and in the issue of Maharash 
tra Times of the same date ( Ex . 201 ) . The authenticity of these reports is prov 
ed by examining the respective reporters who covered this meeting on behalf of 
these newspapers. 

Ex , 168 , the report in Indian Express, shows that during the course of his 
speech , respondent No . 1 said that respondent No. 2 as the ring leader of the 
circus ( BPCC ) was creating riſts amongst the people on the language , class and 
religious basis ; that respondent No. 2 had himself admitted at a mecting at Dana 
Bunder that he once suggested to President Kennedy that America should 
produce more rice to meet India s demand ; that at this rate , respondent No. 2 
would endanger the country s freedom ; that even nou one- fifth of the country s 
money was being controlled by America and that if opposition parties formed a 
Government at the centre , Its first programme would be to empty ill- gotten 
wealth amassed by Congressmen and capitalists who had been sheltering under 
the ruling party . 

Ex . 178 , the report in Timcs of India . shows that at this meeting respondent 
No. 1 made a reference to the food shortage and other problems concerning the 
country and said the Congress was unable to solve them . He advised the voters 
not to ask whether one candidate belonged to Maharashtra or not , spoke a parti 
cular language or professe : a particular religion , what was important was the 
programme of the party or the candidate . 

Ex , 201, the report in Maharashtra Times , shows that at this meeting respon 
dent No. 1 said that in order to make the country prosperous and self -respecting , 
the Congress must be defeated at the election ; that in the last 20 years , Congress 


SIO THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II--- 

- : .. - - - - - - 
has harmed this country to the maximum ; that if this party was re - elected , it 
would do the equal amount of harm in the next five years ; that while respondent 
No. 2 was a Food Minister , he set down a policy of making this country depen 
dent upon America for food ; that because of the lacs of tons of foodgrains 
imported from America , one - fifth of the national currency is in the hands of 
America ; that in order to retain power in their hands. Congress has created 
walls of differences of opinion against Marathi and non -Marathi linguistic 
groups and that this time people have demolished these walls. 

These are the only proved reports of the speech made by respondent No . 1 
at this meeting. In these reports apart from what is stated above, there is no 
other reference to the speech of respondent No . 1 at this meeting. In none of 
these reports it is stated that respondent No . 1 in the course of his speech clearly 
insinuated that respondent No. 2 won elections by tampering with the ballot 
boxes or substituting the same or that he said that even God could not defeat 
respondent No. 2 because unlike respondent No . 2 God was not dishonest . 

The absence of reference to such a part of the speech in these proved reports 
was sought to be explained by enunciating a sober policy which is normally 
adopted by an independent newspaper . The evidence of B . V . Rao (Ex . 162) , 
the Chief Reporter of Indian Express shows that if in a report submitted by a 
reporter , there is anything not properly reported or if there is something which 
is defamatory or in bad taste, he would delete it . He also said that apart from 
him , the Chief Sub Editor on duty would do this part of the duty . That this is 
a salutary policy adopted by a sober newspaper is also evident from the evidence 
of Dinkar Waman Ranadive ( Ex . 199 ) , the Reporter of Maharashtra Times . He 
in his evidence says that as a matter of policy . Maharashtra Times does not pub 
lish matters which are defamatory or constitute personal attacks or which are 
sub judice and he as reporter had instructions to exclude such matters from his 
reports. In view of this consistent evidence of these witnesses as regard the 
normal policy of an independent newspaper , a mere absence of a reference to the 
speech relied upon in paragraph 2J ( i ) of the petition in Exs, 166 , 178 and 201 by 
itself is not sufficient to come to the conclusion that respondent No . 1 did not 
utter the words attributed to him during the course of his speech at 
" The absence of a reference to this part of the speech in the proved reports in 
newspapers is however , a factor to be considered along with the other evidence 
in the case. 

It was u ged on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the policy above enunciated 
is not rigidly followed by every sober newspaper. In this connection reference 
was made to a report published in Indian Express dated November 21, 1966 ( Ex , 
X - 73 ) . This exhibit purports to be a report of a speech alleged to be made by 
Mr. Madhu Limaye at Calcutta . In this report it is alleged that Mr. Atulya Ghosh 
and respondent No. 2 , then Railway Minister , used the Delhi anti - cOW slaughter 
protest to remove Mr. Nanda from the Cabinet , that a few days before the move 
ment started , they had given an ultimatum to Mr . Nanda that if he wished to 
stay on , he would have to drop the cases against Sunil Das and Tarapada 
Chak - avarti who had been arrested for alleged espionage sometime ago , that big 
monopolists who had been gunning at Mr. Nanda for a long time also acted in 
collusion with a powerful faction of the Congress whose leadership was syndicat 
ed by Mr. Atulya Ghosh , respondent No. 2 and Mr. Reddy to remove Mr. Nanda 
and that many Goondas were hired in Calcutta and taken to New Delhi at the 
instance of the involved faction of the Congress . Publication of such a report in 
Indian Express is, undoubtedly , inconsistent with the policy deposed to by 
B . V . Rao in his eyidence . But neither the attention of B . V . Rao, the Chief 
Reporter of that paper , nor of Ramkumar , a reporter of that paper, was drawn 
to the report ( Ex , X - 73 ) , nor was their explanation sought on the qucstion of 
publication of such a report in view of the policy enunciated . As the attention 
of these witnesses was not drawn to Ex , X - 73 , from a mere isolated instance in 
this case, it will not be proper for me to conclude that the policy deposed to by 
B . V . Rao is not the normal policy that is ordinarily followed by an independent 
sober newspaper , 

Besides these proved reports , in the course of the trial reference has been made 
to certain unproved reports in several newspapers of the speech made by respondent 
No. 1 . Reference was made to the issue of Maratha dated February 1 , 1967 ( Ex . 
X - 23 ) , to the issue of Patriot dated February 1 , 1967 ( Ex . Y - 11) and its Issue 
dated February 2 , 1967 ( Ex . X - 78 ) , the issue of Blitz dated February 8 , 1967 
( Ex , X - 56 ) and the issue of Link dated February 12 , 1967 (Ex . X -82 ) . In some 
of these reports reference is to be found to the part of the speech pleaded in 
paragraph 2J ( i ) of the petition . 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


SIII 


- - 


- 


In Ex , X - 23 while reporting the speech of respondent No. 1 , it is alleged that 
in the course of his speech he said : " It is true that even God cannot defeat Patil 
because God cannot exchange boxes . He is honest unlike Patil. That is why this 
battle is very important." 

Ex . Y - 11 is the report of this speech of respondent No. 1 in the newspaper 
Patriot immediately on the following day . This report does refer to the various 
points made by respondent No. 1 during the course of his speech but it does not 
indicate that during the course of his speech respondent No, l referred to God 
and /or ballot boxes in the manner pleaded in paragraph 2J ( i) of the petition . 
However , on the following day, i.e ., on February 2 , 1967 a further report of the 
speech of respondent No. 1 appears to have been published . That report is Ex . 
X - 78. Ex . X - 78 inter alia shows that during the course of his speech respondent 
No. 1 said : " Mr. Patil s supporters claim that even God could not defeat their 
boss . I agree , said Mr. Fernandes . God is a clean fighter and will not take to 
switching ballot boxes ." 

In the issue of Blitz dated February 8 , 1967 ( Ex , X - 56 ) a news Item under the 
heading " Mammoth rally hails the redoubtable flye " was published in relation to 
the proceedings of this Shivaji Park meeting. It reports that during the course 
of his speech , respondent No . 1 inter alia said : He was standing against respon 
dent No. 2 to explode the myth that respondent No, 2 could not be defeated in 
Bombay , that not even God can win against respondent No, 2 . 

In the issue of Link dated February 12 , 1967 ( Ex , X -82) a long write - up under 
the heading " The battle of Bombay " is published . In this write - up at one place 
it is stated ; It was not entirely in fun that respondent No . 1 said recently that 
he was willing to accept the claim of the Congress that even God could not defeat 
Patil. God was a clean fighter . That was Fernandes way of acknowledging that 
his adversary had many trumps up his sleeve, 


No attempt whatsoever has been made on behalf of the petitioner to prove 
the truth of the statements made in these reports ( Exs . X - 23 , Y - 11. X - 78 , 
X -56, and X -82 ) . The contents of these reports are unproved and do not consti 
tute evidence in this case and no reliance can be placed thereupon to come to any 
finding on the issue arising from the averments in paragraph 2J ( i) , Some ques 
tions in respect of these unproyed reports were put to respondent No . 1 and other 
witnesses examined on his behalf and the evidence of these witnesses would have 
to be considered while considering this question . 

Apart from a general argument as narrated above, a special argument was 
advanced in relation to Ex . X - 23 , the report in Maratha dated February 1, 1967. 
The argument rán thus: Atre is the editor , publisher and owner of the newspaper 
Maratha, that there is overwhelming evidence to show that Atre is the agent of 
respondent No. 1 as understood under election law , that Ex , X - 23 amounts to an 
admission by Atrc as such agent of respondent No . 1 and that it being an admis 
sion by an agent, the contents thereof should be regarded as automatically proyed 
by a mere production thereof. The argument in the alternative is that Éx . X - 23 
ts a news item , that gurh a ncws item must have been published as a result of the 
information brought in by the reporter of Maratha who covered this meeting , 
that such a reporter is in law sub - agent of respondent No . 1 employed by Atre 
in his capacity as agent, that the news item , in any event, amounts to an admis 
sion by a reporter as such sub -agent and its contents are , therefore , automatically 
proved and are binding on respondent No . 1. 

A little earlier . a similar contention urged in connection with the report in 
Maratha (Ex . X - 96 ) wherein the news about respondent No . 2 holding himself out 
as a candidate is published is already rejected . The reasons for holding that the 
report ( Ex . X - 96 ) is not automatically proved by its mere production at the trial 
and that it is not an admission either by Atre as agent or by a reporter as sub 
agent apply mutatis mutandis to the report ( Ex . X - 23) . Ex . X - 23 cannot be 
regarded as automatically proved by its mere production and cannot be regarded 
ag an admission either by Atre as agent or respondent No . 1 or by a reporter of 
Maratha as sub - agent of respondent No. 1, 


Considerable oral evidence is led in relation to the speech made by respondent 
No. 1 at this mecting . A number of witnesses who deposed that they were 
present at this meeting have been examined on either side. The petitioner him 
self was not present at this meeting, but on his behalf, 7 witnesses have been 
examined who have given evidence in relation to the speech made by respondent 
No . 1 at this meeting. Respondent No. 1 himself has given evidence of what he 


5112 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (Part II 
= = 

S 
said at this meeting. Besides him , three other witnesses are examined to depose 
to what he stated at this meeting . 

Before scrutinising the evidence of these witnesses , it is necessary to note what 
each one of these witnesses deposes about the speech of respondent No. 1 at this 
meeting . 

The first witness who has given evidence about this speech of respondent No , I 
is Yeshwant Mahadik ( Ex . 107) , an employee in Swastik Engineering Works 
situate at C . P . Tank , Bombay . He deposed that he was present at this meeting 
and , according to him , during the course of his speech , respondent No, 1 gald that 
people say that respondent No. 2 has different technique to win at the elections ; 
that he changes the ballot boxes and gets himself elected ; that he ( respondent. 
No. 1 ) was contesting elections at that time and he would see that the ballot 
boxes will not be changed and that he would destroy that technique. This is all 
that he has deposed to about the specch of respondent No. 1 at this meeting . 

The second witness who has given evidence in relation to this speech of res . 
pondent No. 1 is K , S . Ramkumar ( Ex . 165 ) , a reporter of Indian Expregg who 
covered this meeting on behalf of this newspaper . He has proved the report lu 
Indian Express dated February 1, 1967 (Ex. 166 ) . This is what he deposed to of 
the speech of respondent No. 1 at this meeting : Respondent No. 1 said that he 
had chosen a difficult constituency deliberately with a view to show that even 
respondent No . 2 can be defeated ; that otherwise , he would have selected ariy 
other constituency , perhaps Satara ; that he turned to the audience and said that 
he alone could not defeat respondent No. 2 ; that some people say that respondent 
No. 2 has his own ways and means of winning elections. He further said that he 
agreed with such people that even God could not defeat respondent No. 2 because 
God was honest unlike respondent No. 2 ; that respondent No. 2 won elections by 
changing ballot boxes; that he and his election agents would be extra careful to 
see that respondent No. 2 would not get away with his trick ; that he described 
BPCC as a circus and respondent No. 2 as its ring leader . He said that respon 
dent No. 2 was creating dissentions amongst people of different religions, caste 
and language. He referred to a statement which respondent No. 2 had made at a 
public meeting that he had asked President Kennedy to grow more rice in America 
to meet India s requirement. He said that if the opposition would come to power, 
it would first empty the ill- gotten wealth of capitalists and Congressmen . He 
referred to SSP s programme and said that what his party could do for the peo 
ple , he would do for them . That is all he remembered of the speech of respon 
dent No. 1 at this meeting. In his cross- examination he further said that at this 
ineeting respondent No . 1 stated : How could he defeat respondent No. 2 ? But 
he did not say that God could not defeat respondent No . 2 because God did not 
contest the elections. Respondent No. 1 said that voters of South Bombay could 
defnitely defeat him and that on 22nd February when ballot boxes were opened , 
it would be found that respondent No. 2 was defeated , 

The third witness who has given evidence about this meeting ig $ . Dharma 
rajan ( Ex , 104 ) , a reporter of Times of India . This witness was initially examined 
on behalf of the petitioner to prove what respondent No. 1 said at a press confer 
ence held by him at the Bristol Grill Restaurant When by my order dated 
September 15 , 1967 I allowed the petitioner to amend his petition , I gave liberty 
to respondent No. 1 to make an application for recalling any witness examined 
on behalf of the petitioner. In view of such liberty being given , an application 
for recalling this witness for further " ross - examination was made on behalf of 
respondent No. 1 and that was granted . After he was recalled for further cross 
examination , S . Dharmarajan was asked whether he had covered this meeting 
held at Shivaji Park and he answered in the affrmative. His rerollection , how 
ever . of what happened at this meeting is extremely vague. He did not remember 
whether at this meeting , he took down his notes in shorthand or in longhand . He 
remembered that he took down notes of the speeches made at the meeting and 
submitted his report to the Sub Eitor. That report was prepared by him from 
the notes taken down at the meeting. The report was published in the issue of 
Timrs of India dated February 1 , 1967 and is Ex , 178 . He was specifically asked 
Whcther he remembered to have taken down in the notes that respondent No. 1 
in the counce of his speech said : " Respondent No. 2 has a technique of winning 
elentions. He divides the linguistic groups. It is true that even God cannot 
defeat respondent No. 2 bengusa Gant cannot ayrhange holint boxes. Ha (Gor ) in 
honest unlike respondent No. 2 " . He replied that he did not remember whether 
he took down such words in his notes. Hawns 150 asked whnther if such state 
ments were made by respondent No. 1 in his speech . he would take them anwn 
in his notes or not. Ha replied that that would depend upon his judgment at that 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5113 
S M - - - - 

- -- - - - - 
time. He was not able to say whether his report of the speech of respondent No. 1 
was substantially altered by the Sub Editor when it was published in the issue of 
Times on India the next day . As these questions put to S . Dharmarajan were not 
germane to the evidence that he had given in chief , an application wag made by 
Mr, Jetamalani to cross - examine this witness in respect of the evidence given by 
him after he was recalled , That application was granted and when he was cross 
examined by Mr. Jethmalani, he said that he did not remember whather in his 
speech respondent No . 1 referred to respondent No. 2 by his name. He did not 
remember whether the report that he submitted of the speech of respondent No . 1 
was longer than the one published in Ex . 178 . He said that normally , it was his 
practice not to reproauce matters which are defamatory or patently false. Some 
times if he introduced such a matter in his report, the Sub Editor in exercise of 
his discretion might delete it therefrom . The evidence of this witness , theretore , 
does not carry the case of either party any further . 

Besides these witnesses , a group of four witnesses has been examined in this 
case . These witnesses are the ordinary residents of Dadar and they have deposed 
that they were present at this meeting together, 

Ganesh Tanksale (Ex , 168 ) , an employee in the Commercial Department of the 
Central Railway , is the first witness in this group . He deposed that he was inter 
ested in listening to political speeches and attended many meetings addressed by 
leaders of various political parties. Amongst those meetings , he also attended the 
meeting at Shivaji Park which was addressed by respondent No. 1 and the other 
prominent candidates of the opposition parties. This is what he deposed to of the 
speech of respondent No . 1 at this meeting : Respondent No, 1 addressed the meet 
ing in Maratni. He said that flyc stalwarts of socialist pattern were here today ; 
that we must defeat respondent No. 2 who is the leader of BPCC , a bastian of 
capitalists ; that as he is a Marathi man , efforts are being made to support him on 
the ground that he is a Marathi man ; that respondent No. 2 has behaved against 
the interests of Maharashtra , that he (respondent No . 1 ) made efforts to introduce 
Marathi in Corporation ; that upto 1940 - 45 those Marathi ladies who were working 
in factories in Bombay were thrown out because of thc manipulation of laws made 
by industrialists ; that both Carporation and Government were trying to deprive 
them of their work ; that he ( respondent No. 1 ) established the union of hawkers 
for those women who were thrown out of their work ; that he ( respondent No. 1 ) 
was charged that he was trying for the persons from other States ; that when 
Menon was in Congress , he was not our friend ; that some of our friends thought 
that Menon was near them , though he was in the Congress ; that he (respondent 
No. 1 ) did not feel like that ; that Menon was Congresswala ; so from their point of 
view , he was not a good man ; that amongst Congressmen , he (respondent No. 1 ) 
did not make distinction between Left and Right or between capitalists and lab 
ourers ; that all Congressmen are thicves , but now Menon has come out of the 
Congress , he was with them for the cause of socialism ; that their fight is against 
poverty and unemployment and might of the capitalists in this country ; that 
BPCC is a stronghold of capitalists ; that respondent No. 2 is a Dada thereof; that 
people think that respondent No. 2 cannot be defeated ; that it is true that he 
( respondent No. 1 ) also thought so because respondent No, 2 had a mayic of ex 
changing boxes and changing votes which nobody else had ; that even if God him 
self stood against respondent No. 2 , he could not defeat him because God was 
honest, respondent No. 2 was not like that; that respondent No. 2 endeavoured to 
divide votes on the basis of language ; that he succeeded upto now , but hereafter 
this would not be ; that people had known this trick of respondent No. 2 ; that he 
urged that people should take courage and be awake and show to the world that 
respondent No . 2 could be defeated . This was the substance of what respondent 
No. 1 said , according to Tanksalc , at this meeting . In his cross - examination when 
the case of respondent No . 1 was put to him , he said that respondent No . 1 in the 
course of his speech did not say that the exasperated Congress workers told his 
workers that even God could not defeat respondent No. 2 . According to him , 
respondent No . 1 said : How could he defeat respondent No . 2 ? But he did not 
say that God could not defeat respondent No. 2 because God did not contest elec 
tions. Respondent No. 1 said that voters of South Bombay could defeat respondent 
No . 2 and when the ballot boxes were opened on February 22, it would be seen 
that respondent No. 2 is defeated , 

The next witness in this group is Moreshwar Raghunath Bhide ( Ex . 169 ) , an 
employee in Messrs . Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd . He says that he is an intimate 
friend of the last witness Tanksale and he along with Tanksale and the other two 
witnesses attended the meeting at Shivaji Park . This is what he deposed to of the 
speech of respondent No. 1 at this meeting. According to him , respondent No. 1 


SI14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II — 

-- - - 
at this meeting said that the present condition of India was created by Congress 
in general and by BPCC and respondent No. 2 in particular ; that as he was a non 
Maharashtrian , he was being charged as anti-Maharashtrian , but that was not 
true ; that although he was a non -Maharashtrian , he had always seen the interest 
of the Maharashtrians ; that during the tenure of respondent No. 2 as the Railway 
Minister , there were many rail accidents in India ; that, therefore , he should have 
resigned , but he did not; that during the tenure of respondent No. 2 as Food Min 
ister , the food situation in India worsened ; that, therefore , he should have resign 
ed , but he did not; that he is a leader of BPCC which is the stronghold of capital -- 
ists ; that he must defeat respondent No . 2 , but as respondent No. 2 , was a Goonda 
and was supposed to be election expert, it was very difficult to defeat him ; that 
eyen God could not defeat respondent No. 2 because God was honest and res 
pondent No. 2 was not so ; that God would not exchange ballot boxes as respon 
dent No. 2 does; that respondent No. 2 got elected by creating confusion among 
the people of different languages, but that this time they would not allow him , 
to do so ; that people would have to be very vigilant to defeat respondent No . 2 . 
This , according to Bhide, was all that respondent No. 1 said at the meeting . 
When the case of respondent No. 1 was put to him in cross - examination , he said 
that it is not true that respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech said that 
the exasperated Congress workers told his workers that even God could not 
dereat respondent No . 2 . He did not remember whether respondent No. 1 said : 
How could he defeat respondent No. 2 ? Respondent No. 1 did not say that God 
could not defeat respondent No. 2 because God did not contest elections. In 
some context respondent No. 1 did say that the voters of South Bombay could 
defeat respondent No. 2 and that when ballot boxes were opened on February 
22, it would be seen that respondent No. 2 was defeated , 

The third witness in this group is Balwant Gajanan Khambete ( Ex . 17 ) , an 
employee in the Commercial Department of the Central Railway at Dadar . He 
remembers to have attended this meeting and has deposed to what respondent 
No. 1 said in the course of his speech . According to him , respondent No. 1 at this 
meeting said that propaganda was made against him that he was a 
non -Maharashtrian , that in order to defeat his opponent, respondent 
No. 2 was finding new ways that in 1957 and 1962 ," he createn 
rift between linguistic groups and thereby he won the elections; that 
he did not find it proper to follow this very way this time, that is 
why he had started Shiv Sena as a new thing ; that it was very difcult to defeat 
respondent No. 2 ; that if God contested against him , he (God ) would be defeated 
at the election ; that he is an expert in exchanging ballot boxes . That is all. 
according to Khambete , respondent No. 1 said at this meeting. In his cross -exami 
nation he says that respondent No, 1 In his speech also stated that although he was 
a non -Maharashtrian , how earnestly he was working for Maharashtrians; that he 
made a reference to all that he had done for hawkers in Maharashtra ; that he was 
contesting against a very great personality ; that respondent No. 2 might get the 
beneAt because the atmosphere of Maharashtriang and non -Maharashtriang was 
created ; that respondent No. 2 had got new technique; that he found gome new : 
plans and won elections, . e . g ., rift amongst the linguistic groups, Maharashtrians 
and non -Maharashtrians; that when he found that this was of no avall , he chang 
ed the ballot boxes because he was an expert in that art ; that if people remained 
awake this time, he ( respondent No. 2 ) would not be able to do it. He did not 
remember whether respondent No . 1 said anything about the Chief Minister 
Mr. Naik or that respondent No. 1 made any mention about Satara or whether he 
made any reference to the city of Washington or whether he mentioned anything 
about Jai Prakash Narain . When the case of respondent No, I was put to him , he 
said that it was not true that respondent No. 1 stated at this meeting that the exas 
perated Congress workers told his workers that even God would not be able to 
defeat respondent No . 2 or that the Congress workers said : How could he defeat 
respondent No. 2 , if God could not defeat him , or that God could not defeat res . 
pondent No. 2 because God does not contest election . According to Khambete , 
respondent No. 1 did say that if they were alert and if he ( respondent No. 2 ) was 
not allowed to play his tricks, the voters of South Bombay could definitely defeat 
respondent No. 2 and that when ballot boxes were opened on February 22 , it would 
be seen that respondent No, 2 was defeated . 

The last witness in this group is Sudhakar Bhaskar Bendre ( Ex , 172 ) , an 
employee in Goodlass Nerolac Paints Pvt. Ltd . He admits that he is an intimate 
friend of the other three witnesses and attended this meeting at Shivaji Park 
along with his three friends. According to him , respondent No . 1 said that at this 
meeting that he was opposing the election of respondent No. 2 ; that it would be 
shown on February 22 that respondent No. 2 could be defeated ; that respondent 
No . 2 had a technique ; that he divided yoters on the basis of language; that this 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5115 


technique would not sụcceed this time; that even God could not defeat respondent: 
No. 2 because God could not change ballot boxes; that God was honest ; that He 

(God ) was not like respondent No . 2 ; that respondent No . 2 and his Government. 
have mortgaged our nation to America. That is all Bendre remembered of the 
speech of respondent No. 1 at this meeting as deposed to by him in his evidence 
in - chief . In his cross -examination he reaffirmed that as regards the speech of 
respondent No. 1 he remembered only what he has stated in his evidence - in -chief ; 
that respondent No. 1 said many other things in his speech but he did not remem 
ber anything else ; that he referred to the food policy of Chief Minister Mr. Naik . 
A little later in his evidence he said that respondent No. 1 said that when Krishna 
Menon was in the Congress, he was not like other Congressmen ; that he had no 
respect for him ; that he (Krishna Menon ) left Congress and he was fighting 
against Congress and that they should support him . When the case of respondent 
No . 1 was put to him , he said that it was not true that respondent No. 1 in his 
speech stated that the exasperated Congress workers told his workers that even 
God would not be able to defeat respondent No , 2 or that his workers said that 
even God could not defeat respondent No. 2 , how then could he defeat respondent 
No. 2 or that God could not defeat respondent No. 2 because God could not con 
test elections. According to Bendre, respondent No. 1 said at this meeting that 
voters of South Bombay could definitely defeat respondent No. 2 and that would 
be so if they were vigilant and that on 22nd Fcbruary when the ballot boxes were 
opened , it would be found that respondent No . 2 was defeated , 


This is the entire direct evidence led on behalf of the petitioner as regards the 
speech made by respondent No. 1 at this meeting at Shivaji Park held on January 
31, 1967. 


Respondent No. 1 himself has given evidence as regards what he said at this 
meeting . He said that his speech during the election generally had one theme 
criticism of the performance of the Congress party , especially in regard to food , 
prices , unemployment and to Bombay s problem , specifically house and water 
supply . Ant Shivaji Park meeting , he spoke on these problems and said that Gov 
ernment had failed to produce adequate food for the country by not providing 
proper incentives to the farmers and by not providing irrigational facilities; that 
Government contemplated building major dams but did not bother about minor 
irrigation ; that responsible persons in Government including the Chief Minister of 
Maharashtra gave slogans which they never fulfilled ; that he referred to a state 
ment made by the Chief Minister Mr. V . P . Naik in October 1965 that if he failed 
to solve Maharashtra s food problem in two years , he would go to the gallows: 
that referring to this statement, respondent No. 1 said that other persons might 
have forgotten this statement, but he remembered it and that if by October 1967 
he failed to solve the food problem of Maharashtra , he would go and hang him ; 
that respondent No. 2 was to a great extent responsible for the crisis of food in 
the country : that he referred to a statement made by respondent No. 2 in London 
in July 1961 on his return from U . S . A . that the main problem was now surplus 
food and that India should not produce any more food ; that he ( respondent No. 1) 
criticised PL 480 deals and referred to what Professor John Lewis wrote in his 
book " Quiet Crisis in India " ; that he referred to a passage in the book where the 
author has aired the fears of this country that ultimately PL 480 deals would 
enslave India to America ; that he quoted a statement by the author that one out 
of five Indian rupees was owned by Government of U . S . A , as a result of PL 480 
and allied alds ; that he charged respondent No. 2 for not producing enough food 
in the country , for importing food from America and for not giving proper incen 
tives to Indian farmers; that he referred to a speech made by respondent No . 2 
at Dana Bunder where he ( respondent No. 2 ) is alleged to have stated that he 
had been to America and asked for rice and that when he was told that they had 
no rice, he suggested to President Kennedy that America should set apart 10 per 
cent of the land for growing rice for India and President Kennedy accepted his 
suggestion . He said that he rcbutted some of the criticism that the Congress was 
making against him , viz ., that he was a non -Maharashtrian . He referred to a 
statement alleged to be made by respondent No . 2 that so Tong as the sun and 
the moon are there in the sky , there would be no Maharashtra with Bombay as 
its capital; that he had been to prison three times in Samyukta Maharashtra agi 
tation ; that he had no choice about the place of his birth ; that he did not tell his 
mother that he would like to be born in Mangalore; that if he had a choice, he 
would have suggested that he would like to be born in Satara and that respondent 
No. 2 would have suggested that he should be born in Washington D . C .; that 
some people who complained against him that he was not a Maharashtrian went 
and told Kannada people that the Kannada people must ask him whether he had 
a Kannada blood in him as he advocated for the inclusion of Belgaum and Karwar 


5116 

- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ PART 11 

= 


as part of Maharashtra ; that Congress workers, very much exasperated were 
telling his workers that leave alone Fernandes , even God could not defeat respon 
dent No. 2 ; that he conceded that God could not defeat respondent No. 2 because 
God was not fighting election ; that he could not defeat respondent No. 2 because 
he did not have the means; that the press and money were all against him ; that 
he was telling the voters of South Bombay tuat they could defeat respondent 
No. 2 ; that when the ballot boxes were opened on 22nd February , the world would 
see that respondent No. 2 was defeated ; that he appealed to the voters to vote for 
the four other candidates who were on the platform . He deposed that in his 
speech he did not say : " It is true that cven God cannot defcat Patil because God 
cannot exchange ballot boxes. He (God ) is honest unlike Patil. Here lies the 
importance of this battle .” He denied that he was giving false evidence with a 
view to deny what he said at this Shivaji Park meeting. He said that it never 
Occurred to him during the election campaign that ballot boxes are changed or 
that they would be or could be changed or tampered . In his cross-examination 
he said that at this meeting he did not say that respondent No. 2 had created 
Shiv Sena or that he (respondent No, 2 ) had anyuning to do with It or that he 
divided the people according to language, caste , etc , or that if his party came into 
power , he would unearth the wealth hoarded by respondent No. 2 and his relatives . 
When his attention was drawn to the report in Blitz ( Ex . X - 56 ) he said that a 
part of the report therein was correct and a part was incorrect . According to him , 
the following portion of the report in Blitz of his speech was correct: He was 
standing against respondent No. 2 to exploit the myth that respondent No. 2 could 
not be defeated in Bombay ; that not even God can win against him ; that he re 
called respondent No. 2 s opposition to the formation of Maharashtra State ; that 
at that time, he (respondent No. 2 ) said that as long as there was sun and the 
moon in the sky , there would be no State of Maharashtra , that he criticised reş 
pondent No. 2 s food policy which led India into American bondage ; that respon 
dent No, 2 not only kept on importing PL 480 wheat, but he advised America to 
grow more rice to feed India s hungry millions; that he quoted a passage from 
John Lewis s book " Quiet Crisis in India " ; that the begging for food would result 
in the U . S . Owning one in every three Indian rupecs in the next 15 years and that 
in consequence , India s freedom would once again be in danger and that he appeal 
ed to the people not to judge candidates by the place of their birth but by their 
action , programme and policy. He deposed that the following part of his speech 
in Blitz ( Ex . X - 56 ) was not correct ; He exposed respondent No. 2 s key to victory 
based on division of people by playing on their caste and religious affiliation ; that 
he accused respondent No. 2 of manoeuvring the past two clections in his own 
favour by dividing the people and stressing their caste and religious differences ; 
that he accused respondent No. 2 of backing Shiv Sena and asked , what sort of a 
Maharashtrian is he ? and that if ever the opposition and particularly the SSP 
came into power, they would dig out all the hoarded wealth accumulated by Patil 
in his own and his relatives names . He added that a certain part of the report 
of his speech in Blitz appeared to be a purely imaginary account. 


Respondent No . I was asked certain questions about ascertaining information 
from the other persons of what he said at this meeting. He believed that the 
Alve opposition candidates were a l men of integrity and character and that he 
was fairly on friendly terms with each one of them , but he did not ask ny other 
candidate about what he said at the meeting . The reason that he gave for not asking 
was that it was not necessary . Similarly , he did not make any enquiry from Mr. 
Rajani Patel who presided over this meeting or from any other person who sat on 
the stage at that meeting. He however , with a view to refresh his memory con 
tacted the members of the SSP in order to ask them what they remembered of 
his speech , but he was not going to examine them as his witnesses as they are 
likely to be labelled as partrisan witnesses. He was asked certain questions as 
regards Praful Baxi whom he intended to examine as a witness to establish what 
he said at this meeting. He did not try to contact any newspaper reporters who 
were present at this meeting . He did not ask Atre how the report in Maratha 
( Ex . X -23) appeared nor did he try to find out the correspondent who brought those 
news. He said that Maratha tried to te !1 many of the spicy stories in which there 
is no substance.. 


Respondent No, I was also asked questions as regards the reports that appear 
ed in the Leftist papers Link ( Ex . X - 82 ) and Patriot ( Ex . X - 78 ) . He said that 
the report in Link - that it was not entirely in fun that George Fernandes said 
recently that he was willing to accept the claim of the Congress that even God 
could not defeat respondent No. 2 God said Fernandes, was a clean fighter . That 
was Fernandes way of acknowledging that his adversary has many trumps up 
his leeve was not correct. He said he did not say any such thing. Ag regards 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA ? 5, 1890 5117 
: - : - : - : - : :: - - .. . - 
the report in Patriot (Ex . X - 78 ) , he said that the following portion of the report 
of his speech was not correct in all the previous elections, respondent No . 1 
said , respondent No. 2 had managed to win by getting one minority set against 
other . How this game would be foiled , for the people were united as neve : be 
forc, Respondent No, 2 s supporters claim that even God could not defeat their boşa , 
He agreed . God was a clean fighter and would not take to switching the ballot 
boxes , Bombay s voters would reject the chauvinistic line of the Shiv Sena ang 
its wire - puller s . He said that he did not make any 01 the above statements in 
the course of his speech . He deposed that he did not remember whether he 
made the following statement in his speech : Twenty years of progress in the 
Congress rulc was such that even Jayprakash Narain came rushing from Bihar 
asking for donations for the famine hit people . Mr. Narain said that if he had 
Rs. 2000 , he could keep at least 500 Bihari children alive for one rrunth . The 
rest of the report of his speech in Patriot ( Ex . X - 78 ) , he admitted , was correct. 

Besides giving his own testimony , respondent No. 1 has examined three wil 
nesses who, according to him , were present at this mceting . They are ( 1 ) Din 
kar Waman Ranadive ( Ex . 199 ) , a reporter of Maharashtra Times who covered 
this meeting on behalf of that newspaper , ( 2 ) Praful Baxi ( Ex . 202 ) , a Senior 
Branch Manager of the LIC , who deposed that he attended this meeting with ú 
view to hcar Mr. H , R . Gokhale as he was curious to see a change from a Judge 
to a politician , and ( 3 ) D , S . Pradhan ( Ex . 205 ) , a member of the Bharatiya Jan 
Sangh , who was a candidate for an Assembly seat from Mahim constituency at 
the election . 

Dinkar Waman Ranadive has proved the report in Maharashtra Times (Ex . 
201) as a correct ręsport of the speech made by respondent No. 1 at this mceting 
He said that he dictated this report to the Sub Editor of the newspaper on tele 
phone from a restaurant in Shivaji Park as the meeting went on till late hours 
that night. When his attention was drawn to the report of the news item in 
Maratha ( Ex , X - 23 ) , he said that respondent No. 1 in his speech did not say : " It 
is true that even God cannot defeat Patil because God cannot exchange ballot 
boxes. He (God ) is honest unlike Patil. Here lies the importance of this battle ." 
He did not remember whether respondent No. 1 said that people would get a 
reply to their question of food , clothing, education and medical facilities in this 
contest . Respondent No. 1 did not say in his speech ; " Patil can be defeated 
froin South Bombay will be proved on 21st February . Patil has a technique of 
winning elections and that technique is to divide the people according to lin 
guistic groups ." Respondent No. 1 did not say that, in the election of 1957, res 
pondent No. 2 created barriers between the Marathis and Gujaratis and got elect 
ed on non -Marathi votes ; that in 1962 respondent No. 2 adopted the same thing , 
but having realised that he would not be able to avail himself of the same tech 
nique in 1967 , he raised a question : What is the place of a Marathi man in 
Bombay ? He has raised a cry to that effect and he is now adopting the techni 
que of winning election by depending upon Marathi votes. But this time this 
technique will not be successful. Respondent No. 1 did say that the work of break 
ing the walls raised by the BPCC in the year 1957 would now be done by the 
Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti, but he said this in the contest of the Congress 
creating barriers between communities and communities , 

He has cross - examined at length on the basis of the reports published in Blitz 
( Ex . X - 56 ) and in Patriot (Ex. X - 78 ) . As regards the report in Blitz , he said 
that respondent No . 1 did not say in his speech that respondent No. 2 s key to 
victory is based on division of the peoples unity by playing on their caste and 
religious affiliations; that he was standing against respondent No. 2 to explode 
the myth that he could not be defeated in Bombay ; that not even God could win 
against respondent No. 2 . He added that respondent No. 1 said this in different 
words and the report in Blitz is not an accurate report. He was , however , not 
asked in cross -examination what respondent No. 1 - said in different words. He 
said that respondent No. 1 did say that some people say that even God cannot 
defeat respondent No . 2 , that God was not in the contest , but voters could defeat 
respondent No. 2 . He was asked questions as to whether he would regard the 
report in Maratha ( Ex . X - 23 ) about God and ballot boxes as personal attack on 
respondent No. 2 . He said that he would regard the statement that God does not 
win against respondent No, 2 because God is honest and respondent No . 2 is not, 
As a personal attack on respondent No , 2 He added he said something like that 
in a different way . But he was not asked how and in what manner something 
Jike that was said by respondent No . 1. Respondent No. 1, according to Ranadive, 
also referred to ballot boxes in his speech . He said that he did not remember 
whether respondent No. 1 in his speech used the words to the effect that God is 
a clean fighter , but immediately thereafter he corrected himself and said that he 
did not think that he used any words having a similar connotation or , meaning . 


5118 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1990 (Part II — 


He said that he did not think that respondent No . 1 in his speech stated that res 
pondent No. 2 s supporters claim that even God would not defeat their boss , that 
respondent No . 1 agreed with that or said that God was a clean fighter and 
would not take to switching ballot boxes . In his speech respondent No . 1 did 
refer to God as well as ballot boxes , but he did not refer to switching of the 
ballot boxes . Even though at more than one place during his cross -examination 
Ranadive referred to reference to God and ballot boxes by respondent No. 1 in his 
speech , no questions were put to him as to how they were referred to . Ulti 
mately in answer to a question by the Court , he said that respondent No . 1 refer 
red to God and ballot boxes by making the following speech : “ Congress workers 
said that God cannot defeat Patil, God is not in the election . I also cannot 
defeat . But voters can defeat Mr. Patil and when the ballot boxes will be opened 
you will see that Patil has been defeated ." In his further cross -examination he 
said that these sentences were uttered by respondent No. 1 in Hindustani and he 
reproduced the actual words which , according to him , were used by respondent 
No. 1 to convey the above idea , 

Praful Baxi (Ex. 202) has given evidence of what he remembered of the 
speech of respondent No. 1 at this mecting. According to him , respondent No . 1 
explained at this meeting to the public the reasons why he was contesting 
the election from Bombay South Parliamentary constituency and against 
respondent No. 2 . Respondent No. 1 dealt at length on the food problem 
facing the country and the performance of respondent No. 2 when he was the 
Food Minister . He said that under the Food Ministership of respondent No . 2 , 
India became more and more indebted to U . S . A . for food import and PL 480 ; that, 
in his opinion , dependence on foreign power for food makes us suicide; that res 
pondent No. 2 should have toured the country and should have launched the 
movement for self -sufficiency in food ; that the country was living more on slo 
gans than on actions; that he cited the example of Chief Minister of Maharashtra 
Mr. Naik declaring that the State of Maharashtra would be self - suficient in two 
years ; that in a humourous tone he said that he was waiting for two years to pass , 
so that with a long rope, he would go to “ Varsha " with all : that he would like 
the people to join him then ; that they need not show mercy to Mrs . Vatsala Naik 
and would offer the long rope to Mr. Nalk to hang himself . Respondent No. 1 
also said that propaganda was carried against him that he was not a Maharash 
trian ; that he did not understand what place of birth had to do with whether he 
was a Maharashtrian or not ; that, has anybody a choice in this matter ? that if he 
had a choice , he would have preferred to be born in Satara and probably , res 
pondent No. 2 would have preferrerd to be born in Washington from where food 
grains were imported ; that Congressmen told his workers that even God could 
not defeat respondent No , 2 ; that it is true that God could not defeat respondent 
No. 2 , that it is also true that respondent No. 1 also could not defeat respondent 
No. 2 , but that he was confident that voters of South Bombay could and that on 
22nd February when ballot boxes would be opened , respondent No. 2 would be 
declared defeated. This is all that he remembered of the speech of respondent 
No. 1 at this meeting . He said that respondent No . 1 at this meeting did not say : 
" It is true that even God cannot defeat Patil because God cannot exchange ballot 
boxes. He is honest unlike Patil." Respondent No, 1 said that the fight was not 
against respondent No . 2 individually , but they were fighting on policies of food , 
shelter, clothing and employment. Respondent No. 1 did not say at this meeting 
that his election agents would be more careful to see that respondent No . 2 would 
not get away with his tricks of changing ballot boxes. In his cross - examination 
after drawing his attention to the appeal (Ex . 56 ) , he was asked whether in the 
course of his speech respondent No. 1 developed the theme contained in this 
appeal, viz ., " I believe that S . K , Patil is beatable and I am sure that you , the 
voters from South Bombay , will do it. In fact I have always considered it an 
insult to the intelligence and integrity of South Bombay voters when people 
mentioned that Patil is an unscrupulous politician and has his ways and means 
of winning elections," Praful Baxi said that respondent No. 1 developed the 
various points which he mentioned in his evidence - in - chief and many others 
which he ( Baxi) might have missed. In his speech respondent No . 1 explained 
to the public the reason why he was contesting the e ection from Bombay South 
Parliamentary constituency against respondent No. 2 . In his speech he made 
some reference about Shiv Sena and condemned it , but Baxi was unable to re 
member what exactly respondent No. 1 said at this meeting about Shiv Sena , In 
his speech respondent No. 1 stated that propaganda that he was not a Maharash 
trian should not be carried on . He did not think that there was any reference to 
the past elections and to the success of respondent No. 2 at those elections Baxi 
further said that there was a passing reference by respondent No 1 in his speechi 
to railway Accidents , but he did not remember what he said in that connection . 
Baxi did not think that respondent No. 1 in his speech said that the press and 
money were against him , nor did he think that respondent No. 1 in his speech 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5119 

- - - > 

= = 
said that the Congressmen and the Congressmen were corrupt. According to 
Baxi, some reference was made to a statement like , if his party came to power , it 
would unearth the ill - gotten wealth acquired by Ministers and their re atives , 
but that would be done by holding an enquiry . According to Baxi, respondent 
No. 1 did not make any reference to Bombay city s water supply , housing and 
other probems. Nor did he think that respondent No. 1 said in his speech that 
he could not defeat respondent No. 2 because he had not the means, Respondent 
No. 1 did not develop the point by saying that the press and the money were 
against him , According to him , reference to God and ballot boxes was made 
in humour. 

The last witness who has given evidence about this speech of respondent No. 
1 is Pradhan (Ex, 105 ) . According to him , he went to this meeting after atten 
ding an election meeting in his own constituency. When he went to the meet 
ing , Gokhale was addressing the meeting . According to Pradhan , respondent 
No. 1 in his speech criticised the misrule of Congress for the last 20 years. He 
criticised the agricultural development in the country. He referred to PL 480 . 
He said that the people were propagating that he was a non -Maharashtrian . In 
answer he said that what contribution he has made to the cause of Samyukta 
Maharashtra . These according to Pradhan were the main points in the speech 
of respondent No . 1 When his attention was drawn to the report in Maratha 
(Ex . X -23 ) to the effect " It is true that even God cannot defeat Patil because 
God cannot exchange ballot boxes . He (God ) is honest unlike Patil. Here 
lies the importance of this battle .” He replied that this is not a correct report of 
the speech of respondent No . 1. In his speech respondent No. 1 referred to 
God and ballot boxes . Acoording to Pradhan , about ballot boxes respondent 
No. 1 said that when ballot boxes would be opened , it would be seen that Patil 
is defeated . God , according to Pradhan , was referred to by respondent No. 1 
when he said that he could not defeat respondent No. 2 , even God could not 
defeat respondent No . 2 . In his cross - examination , Pradhan admitted that the 
issue of Maratha ( Ex . X - 23 ) was shown to him by the lawyers before . 
When it was shown to him , he told the lawyers that the particular 
thing mentioned in that report was not said by respondent No . 1 . He 
also pointed out one thing more to the lawyers. The report in Ex , 
X - 23 that Patil has a technique of winning elections and this technique is to di 
vide on the basis of language; in 1957 respondent No. 2 got elècted on the stren 
gth of non -Marathi votes by creating barriers between Marathi against Gujarati, 
was not correct . According to Pradhan , respondent No. 1 in his speech said 
that the Congress did these things which are mentioned in the above passage 
and not respondent No. 2 . He also said further in his cross - examination that 
respondent No. 1 In his speech said that it is true that even God could not defeat 
respondent No , 2 , but these words were uttered in a different context. Respon 
dent No. 1 also said that it is true that he could not defeat him , but he did not 
say why he could not defeat respondent No. 2 . Respondent No . 1 in the course 
of his speech said that the press and money were against him , that he was sure 
that the voters of South Bombay could defeat respondent No. 2 In his cross 
examination he pointed out the sequence in which different things were stated by 
respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech , He did not remember whethei 
respondent No. 1 discussed Bombay s water supply problem . He did not discuss 
housing and unemployment problem . He referred to railway accidents when 
he was referring to misrule of Congress . 

This is substantially the entire oral testimony of the various witnesses in re 
lation to what respondent No, 1 said during the course of his speech at Shivaji 
Park . 
18th January , 1988 : 

The evidence of these witnesses examined on behalf of the petitioner except 
that of Dr. S . Dharınarajan sliows that in his speech respondent No . referred 
to God and ballot boxes in such a way as to cast aspersion on the personal 
character of respondent No . 2 . Each one of them has deposed to this part of 
the speech in somewhat different words. But the general effect of what res 
pondent No. 1 said , according to them , is the same. According to them res 
pondent No. 1 wanted to convey that people say that even God cannot defeat 
respondent No, 2 because God cannot exchange ballot boxes. He is honest 
unlike respondent No. 2 . The version of respondent No. 1 and that of the 
three witnesses examined on his behalf is different. They do say that res 
pondent No . 1 in his speech referred to God and ballot boxes but not in the 
manner suggested by the witnesses examined on behalf of the petitioner. The 
effect of their evidence is that respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech 
said that exasperated Congress workers were telling these workers that leave 
alone respondent No, 1 , even God cannot defeat respondent No . 2 ; that God 


- 


- 


5120 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 75, 1890 [Part 11 – 
- . . . - - - - - - - - - - . . 

- - - - - -- 

- - - 
was not fighting the election , that voters of South Bombay could defeat res . 
pondent No . 2 , that when tie ballot boxes would be opened on February 2 % . 
the world will see that respondent No. 2 was dereated . Each one of these wit 
nesses has denied that respondent No. 1 in his speech said that even God could 
not defeat respondent No. 2 because God could not exchange ballot boxes , that 
God was honest unlike respondent No. 2 . These are the rival versions. The 
question arises, has the petitioner discharged the onus of establishing this 
harge ci corrupt practice beycal reasonable doubt, 


When this petition was presented to this Court on April 7 , 1967, there was 
not even an averment in the petition in relation to this speech made by res 
pondent No. 1 at Shivaji Park meeting . Only vague allegations without any 
particulars whatsoever, were made in para 2J of the Petition . The time, the 
place and the contents of the speech or speeches alleged to be made by res 
pondent No. 1 were not pleaded . Even when refe. cnce was made to the issues 
of Maratha, only the dates of the issues of Maratha , without referring to the 
particular extract that were intended to be relied upon were referred to . It 
was only after the order was passed on July 3 , 1967 that the petitioner for the 
first time introduced various items as Ex . E to the petition . This cxhibit consist 
ed of the various extracts from Maratha . One of the extracts in Ex . E is in 
relation to the report of a speech alleged to be made by respondent No. 1 at 
Shivaji Park meeting. That extract is from the issue of Maratha , dated Feb 
Tuary 1 , 1967 and reads : " Patil has a technique of winning election . He divides 
the linguistic groups — it is true that eycn God cannot defeat Pati! because 
God cannot exchange ballot boxes. He (God ) is honest unlike Patil . . . . . . . . . . " 
Thls extract was relied upon in Ex . E simply because such a news item appears 
to have been published in the issue of Maratha . At the time when Ex. E was 
introduuced in the petition , the petitioner has made a somewhat unusual type 
of declaration in the petition . At the time of this amendment, he stated on 
solemn affirmation that what is stated above (ie, in Ex . E to the petition ) is true 
translation of the reports appearing ir: the newspapers referred to above. The 
pctitioner himself was not personally present at this mee ing at Shivaji Park , 
Even when the extracts were introauced in Ex . E to the Petition , he had not 
received any information about the speech of respondent No. 1 at Shivaji Park 
from any person . He appears to be in search of witnesses who were able or 
prepared to depose about this speech of respondent No. 1. In respect of the 
speeches made at some of the colection meetings, the petitioner got a letter of 
request issued to various officers including the Commissioner of Police, Greater 
Bombay . By the order dated August 10 , 1967, the Prothonotary and Senior 
Master of this Court was directe to issue a letter of request to the Commis 
stoner of Police requiring him to depute Omcer and / or reporters to produce 
the reports or copy or copies of reports of the various meetings covered by 
them and to give evidence thereof. A list of such meetings and reports is given 
in Annexure II to this order. This annexure shows that the petitioner required 
the Commissioner of Police co produce such reports in respect of about 11 ineet 
ings and to hire the j eporters who made such rcports , examined . For l easons 
best known to the prtitioner , h .. giid not call for the report of the speeches 
made by various speakers including respondent No. 1 at the meeting held at 
Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967. Even while he was in the witness box he 
was asked a question whether he was going to get a letter of request issued 
to the Commissioner of Folice for producing the report if any, of this public 
meeting and he replied that I have not got a letter of request issued to the 
Commissioner of Police for producing the report, if any, of that public mert 
ing held on 31st January, 1907.” I : respect of some other speeches, namely , the 
speech of respondent No. 1 at Sabu Siddiq Chawl and the speech of Mr, Madhu 
Limaye at Chowpatty , the petitioner not only got the reports made by the 
Police Reporters produced on record ,, but he also examined the particular re 
porter who had made and submitted such report. However , in respect of this 
meeting at Shivaji Park , the petitioner has not chosen to examine the police 
reporter , who covered that meeting and also has not got his report produced 
on record . A report made by a police reporter is a contemporaneous record 
of the speech and in the absence of any special reason it will be a very useful 
piece of evidence of the contents of the speech made at the meeting . Instead of 
getting such reports produced or examining the police reporter, the petitioner 
has chosen to rely upon merely the oral testimony of witnesses, whose presence 
at this meeting, he came to know from time to time after this election petition 
was Bled , and to trace or to get the evidence of some of whom , efforts were made 
hy some person other than the petitioner . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5121 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


When this petition was filed , the petitioner was not aware of the name of a 
single individual who was present at this meeting It appears from his evidence 
that he was in search of witnesses who could be able to depose about the 
speeches at this meeting. In his evidence, he clearly admitted that he learnt 
about this meeting from the report published in the Maratha and Blitz and 
from Yeshwant Mahadik , He has deposed how he contacted Yeshwant Mahadik . 
He said that he had talked to his friend Jayavant Rane to bring persons who 
attended this meeting at Shivaji Park Pursuant to this talk Jayavant Rane 
Informed him that Yeshwant Mahad: k was present at this meeting . Cn or 
about August 8 , 1967 – a little more than a fortnight before the bearing of this 
petition started — he for the first time talked to Yeshwant Mahadik about what 
transpired at this meeting when Jayawant Rane brought him to his place . He 
also deposed to the tak th :1t he had with Mahadik on that occasion . He said 
that Mahadik remembered that he had attended this meeting at Shivaji Park 
and that respondent No. 1 spoke at this meeting . He has also deposed what 
Mahadik remembered on that occasion of the speech of respondent No. 1. 
Mahadik told him that iespondent No . 1 in his speech sated that he was fight . 
ing the election against respondent No. 2 ; that respondent No . 2 was winning 
clections by changing ballot boxes and that he would not allow respondent 
No. 2 to change the ballot boxes on this occasion . This is all that the Petitioner 
remembered of the talk that he had with Mahadik . On the day when hy gave 
this evidence - on September , 8 , 1967 – he in his evidence stated that he was , 
not leading evidence of any other witnesses to establish what happened at this 
meeting at Shivaji Park . On that day he also stated that he had seen the 
report of this speech 1:1 the issuc of Times of India and Blitz and he found 
that it was not reported therein that respondent No. 1 in the course of hle 
speech in this meeting stated that respondent No . 2 was changing the ballot 
boxes in the election . He had till then made no effor s to find out whether 
the report of such an allegation against respondent No. 2 about changing the 
ballot boxes was published in any other newspaper and he said that he did 
not find such an allegation reported in any othcf newspaper, Thus when the 
trial began , it was only in the testimony of Yeshwant Mahadik that the peti 
tioner intended to bring home the charge of this corrupt practice to respondent 
No. 1 , and he was riot going to lead any other evidence to substantiate this . 
chaigh 


Yeshwant Mahadik undoubtedly in his evidence refers to respondent No. 1 
having stated that respondent No. 2 changes the ballot boxes for getting himself 
elected and that on this occasion he would see that the ballot boxes would not 
be changed and that he would destroy that technique . But the evidence of 
this witness Yeshwant. Mchadik suffers from a number of serious infirmities, 
This meeting was held at Shivaji Park at late hours at night and Yeshwant 
Mahndil is an unnatural witness to attend such a meeting. Yeshwant Mahadik 
is employed as a production supervisor in Swastik Engineering Works which 
has its workshop at C . P . Tank at Bombay . He stays in the workshop and 
probably has no other independent accommodation for his residence . However , 
he explained his presence iit this meeting by saying that on that day he had 
been to see his brother , who resides at Narayana Bhavan , Shivaji Park and 
while he was returning from his residence to go to Dadar Railway S ation , he 
saw a number of persons going in the direction of Shivaji Park and was thereby 
induced to attend this meeting. Thus his attendance at such a meeting is rather 
unusual. His further evidence shows that he is an interested witness so far 
as the petitioner is concerncd . During the 1967 clection , he was working for 
a Congress Assembly Condidate in a Constituency which formed part of res 
pondent No. 1 s Parliamentary Constituency . While so canvassing , he did the 
work of every other Congress candidate at the election . In his evidence he 
has admitted that during the elections held in the years 1957, 1962 and 1967 
he worked for respondent No. 2 and the other Congress candidates . He hap 
pened to be present in the High Court when even inspection of the documents 
disclosed by the petitioner was given to the Advocate of the Respondent No. 1. 
Initially hc denied having helped the petitioner in this proceedings by doing 
any odd job but thereafter he admitted that he was present in the Appellate 
Side Bar Association Room who inspection of the documents disclosed by the 
petitioner was taken by Respondent No. 1 and that he was helping the petitioner 
when he was giving such inspection of documents. Lastly his evidence shows 
that he does not remember anything more of the speech of respondent No . 1 
except about the changing of ballot boxes He does not say a word from the 
speech of respondent No. 1 ihet is reported in thc issues of Times of India 


5122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (Part II -- 


Indian Express or Maharashtra Times . There are thus a number of infirmities 
in the testimony of this witness Yeshwant Mahadik and it will be unsafe to 
place any reliance upon his testimony to bring home this charge to respondent 
No , 1 . 


Though , initially it was the intention of the petitioner to establish this charge 
of corrupt pratice on the evidence of Yeshwant Mahadik , it must have been 
felt by him that his testimony was quite insufficient to establish such a charge 
of corrupt practice . He, therchore, seems to have made efforts to And out other 
witnesses who are able or prepared to give evidence . As a result of these 
efforts , Ramkumar, the reporter of the Indian Express who covered this meeting 
on behalf of his nervspaper , was examined . Ramkumar ordinarily is an inde 
pendent witness and his presence at this meeting cannot be disputed. It is as 
a result of the report furnished by him that the news item ( Ex . 166 ) was pub 
Jished in the issue of the Indian Express dated February 1, 1967, However , in 
Ex . 166 there is no reference to the controversial part of the speech about 
which he deposed in the witness box . His evidence is that he did not incor 
pora e this part of the speech in the report as a result of the discussion that 
he had that very night with E . V . Rao ( Ex . 160 ) , the Chief Reporter of the 
Indian Express . On this crucial point, his evidence is not corroborated by that 
of B . V . Rao , Ramkumar in his evidence has stated that he left this meeting 
.at about 11 . 30 P . M . after Krishna Menon , the last speaker at this meeting 
addressed the meeting for about 5 minutes . From the meeting he went to 
the office of the Indian Express. When he reached the office, the Chief Re 
porter B . V . Rao was already there . He had discussions with him about the 
controversial point which he wanted to incorporate in his report. The con 
troversial point was about the changing of ballot boxes by respondent No. 2 . 
This was the only controversial point so far as the speech of respondent No . 1 
was concerned . In view of this discussion on the controversial point with the 
Chief Reporter , he did not incorporate it in the report that he prepared for being 
published . He himsell their typed out the report of the speeches and showed 
it to the Chief Reporter . In his cross- examination , his evidence is that apart 
from having the discussion with the Chief Reporter on the controversial points 
on the early morning of Feloruary 1 , he had discussed with him on these points 
for a couple of days because these points were not incorporated in the report 
and he wanted to linow why they were not incorporated . This is the discus 
soin according to Ramkumar , that he had with the Chief Reporter , both on 1st 
and 2nd of February . IIC 3ain that even on the midnight of January 31, the 
Chief Reporter had alrcady told him the reasons for not incorporating the 
objectionable points in the report till he had discussion with him on 1st and 
2nd of February . Such discussion , he explained by saying that on the earlier 
occasion , the Chief Reporter had not given him the details . On 1st and 2nd 
of February he had discussion with the Chief Reporter only on the controver 
sial points and on nothing else . This testimony of Ramkumar is , however, not 
corroborated by that of E . V . Rao . 


Rao is examined as a witness before Ramkumar stepped into the witness 
box and he does not rcfer to any discussion with Ramkumar on any controversial 
point in the speech of respondent No. 1 or any other speaker either on the 
midnight of 31st January or 1st or 2nd February , Rao has deposed to the 
preparation of the report by Ramkumar for publication in the Indian Express 
after he returned from the meeting . He said that on the night of 31st January 
1967 he was in the office upto about 2 A . M . of 1st February as his tas 2 :1 
important mee ing . Rarakuriar returned to the Omconfter covering the 
meeting at about 12. 30 A . M . Or 1 A . M . as the meeting lasted tili manjoht. m 
that occasion , he ( Ramkumar ) did not submit any notes to him of wh :1 + happened 
at the meeting . He had prepared a note of what he heard at the recting , but 
Rao did not want to see thic notes at that time. He did not read the notes 
prepared by Ramkumar. He asked Ramkumar to prepare a report from the 
note and the report was prepared and typed by Ramkumar in his presence . At 
that time, he was busy doing other work . The report after it was prepared 
was shown to him and he went through it. He thereafter sent it for pubiica 
tion for Indian Express cdition at Bombay . Delhi and Madras. Thus , neither 
Rao had been asked about the discussion on the controversial point nor has he 
deposed to it in the course of his evidence . Even though Ramkumar steges 
that he had such discussion with him more than once that is on the midnight 
of 3.1st January and on 1st and 2nd of February . 


Dec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


51.23 


Thereafter an app ication to re - call B . V . Rao for further examination - in 
chiel in connection with the discussion that he had with Ramkumar, wag niado . 
In the alternative, an application on behalf of the petitioner was made that Rao 
should be tendered for further cross - examination . That application was op 
posed by the Counsel for respondent No. 1 and I rejected this application . It 
is significant to notice that this application for re - calling Rao was not made on 
the evening of September 28 , 1967 when Ramkumar deposed to in his evidence 
in - chief about this discussion on the controversial point nor even on Septem 
ber 29 , 1967 immediately after the evidence of Ramkumar was over . The evid 
ence of Ramkumar was over before the recess on September 29 , 1967 but for 
reasons best known , this application was made at 4 . 45 P .M . on September 29. 
when the Court was to rise for the day and the week - end of three days was 
to intervene thereafter, 

An infirmity is noticed in the evidence of Ramkumar also having regard to 
his evidence of the statement made by respondent No. 1 in the course of his 
speeclı , At more than one place in his evidence he said that he did not re 
member the exact words spoken by respondent No. 1 or the sequence in which 
the various points were made by him in his speech . But so far as the con 
troversial purt of the speech is concerned , he has in substance reproduced 
almost the exact words used in paragraph 2J of the petition . He admits that 
he had 110 occasion to remeinber or reproduce this speech of respondent No. 1 
after February 2 . Still his memory is vivid on the controversial part of the 
speech . Lastly Ramkumar was cited as a witness only in the 4th and the last list 
of witnesses that was Aled in this Court on September 28 , 1967 - the day on 
which his evidence starred , Rule 13 of the Election Rules framed by the High 
Court requires that within 7 days of the settlement of the issues , the parties 
shal file a list of witnesses and pay the process fees and travelling allowances, 
the dict allowances and the local conveyance allowance for those of them who 
are required to be summoned . The issues in this petition were settled on or 
about July 3 , 1967, The 1st list of witnesses , in accordance with this 
rule 13 was filed in this Court on July 15 , 1967 and it contained the 
Danies of about 22 witnesscs. Three days thereafter on July 18 , 1967 a second 
list of witnesses was filed on kehalf of the Petitioner and it contained the names 
of about 72 witnesses. A third list of witnesses was Aled on behalf of the 
petitioner on August 22, 1967 and it mentioned the names of about 8 witnesses . 
The final list was filled on September 28 , 1967 con aining the names of 8 
witnesses and the name of this witness was mentioned only in this last ligt . 
In his cross - examination , the petitioner clearly stated that he was examining no 
other witness apart from Ilahidik to prove the contents of the speech of reg 
pondent No. 1 at this meeting but no evidence is given showing how this wit 
ness Ramkumar came to be contacted , and how the petitioner came to know 
that he had covered this meeting as the Reporter of Indian Express Rainkumar 
in this cross - examination has stated that about four days before he gave evid 
ence , one Samant- presumably the petitioner - came to him in his office and 
told h m that the Chief Teporter must have talked to him about the evidence 
that he had to give . At tliat time Samant alone came to his office and was not 
accompanied by either Mr. Patkar , the son - in - law of respondent No. 2 or any 
body else . Then he went to the Chambers of Mr. Jethmaland Counsel for the 
Petitioner and met Mr. Patkar there. A little earlier in his evidence he said 
that about five days ago, thet is round about September . 3 , 1967 he had talked 
with Rao but he was not then told that he was required to give evidence . He 
was served with a summons to give evidence a day prior to his evidence was 
recorded in this Court . In view of these infirmities in the testimony of 
Ramkumar, it is unsafe to rely upon his testimony for holding this charge of 
corrupt pract ! ce as proved . 


S . Dharamrajan , the Reporter of the Times of India , who covered this 
meeting on behalf of this rewspaper does not improve the case of the Petitioner 
any further . His cvidence shows that he did not remember anything of the 
Soc? that was inade at this meeting and his evidence neither assists the 
petitioner nor establislies the case of respondent No. 1, 

Then there is the evidence of group of four witnesses - Tanksale, Bhide, 
Khambete and Bendre - who are residents of Dadar , On the controversial part 
of the speech of respondent No. 1, namely , about God and Ballot Boxes , each 
one of them substantially tries to reproduce the effect of the words almost 
exactly as reported in Marathon (Ex , X - 23 ) . Tanksale said in the course of 
his speech respondent No . 1 said that people thought that respondent No . 2 


5124 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II . 


= 


= 


= 


could not be defeated ; that was true ; that he also thought so because respondent 
No. 2 had a magic of exclianging the ballot boxes and changing votes which 
nobody else has; even if God himself stood against respondent No . 2 he could 
not defeat him because God was honest. According to Bhide, respondent No. 1 
in his speech said that as respondent No . 2 was a Goonda and supposed to be 
an election experi, it was very difficult to defeat him ; that even God could not 
defeat respondent No . 2 because God was honest and respondent No. 2 wag not 
go ; that God would not exchange ballot boxes as respondent No. 2 does ; accord 
ing to Khambete , respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech said that it was 
very difficult to defeat respondent No . 2 , that if God contested against him , 
he (God ) would be defeated at the election , that he was an expert in exchang 
ing ballot boxes. Lastly , according to Bendre , respondent No , 1 sald even God 
could not defeat respondent No. 2 because God could not change ballot boxes , 
that God was hories , that he (God ) was not like respondent No . 2 . It is a 
strange coincidence that none of these witnesses referred to in their evidence 
in - chief to a majority of the points of the speech of respondent No. 1, which 
are referred to in the Press reports of his speech in newspapers like Indian 
Express, Times of India and Maharashtra Times . 


Reference may, for exampię , be had to the report in the Indian Express 
Ex . 166 ) . This report shows that in his speech respondent No. 1 said that 
respondent No . 2 us the ring leader of the circus of BPCC was creating rift 
among the people on languaec . caste and religious basis , that respondent No. 2 
had himself admitted at a meeting at Dana Bunder that he had once suggested 
to President Kenedy that America should produce more rice to meet India s 
demand , that respondent No . 2 would endanger the country s freedom , that 
even now 1 / 5th of the country s money is being controlled by America , that 
after the opposition partics form a Government at the Centre , its first pro 
grammo would be to empty the ill- gotten wealth amassed by Congressmen and 
capitalist who had been sheltering under the ruling party . Tanksale in his 
evidence - in - chief inter alia dispose to a reference by respondent No. 1 to res 
pondent No. 2 as a leader of the BPCC which is a stronghold of capitalist but 
in his evidence - in -chief , no mention has been made of the other points report.. 
cd in the Indian Express of the speech of respondent No. 1 . The same is the 
case of Bhide, khambete and Bendre. About Bendre, it may be said that he 
nas inter alia stated in his speech respondent No. 1 said that respondent No. 2 
and his Government have mortgaged our nation to America but this is sub 
stantially a reproduction of the statement which is found in the report in 
Maratha (Ex. X - 23 ) . It is rather surprising that each Onc of them in their 
evidence - in - chief has omitted to refer to most of the points proved to have been 
made by respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech . 

In somewhat dramatic manner Tankşale has tried to enumerate the various 
reasons, which according to him . assisted him in remembering the contents of 
the speech of respondent No. 1 at this meeting . First he says that he had spoken 
about the speech to other friends Bhide, Bendre and Khambete while they were 
returning from the meeting to their respective residences. He then said that he 
had occasion to talk about this meeting with his friends Natha Dabir at Dadar, 
but he did not remember how many days after the meeting he had a discussion 
with Dabir . Apart from this , he had no other occasion to talk to anybody about 
the speeches at this meeting before he spoke to Mr. Shamrao Samant on the 
night of September 25 , 1967 just a few days before his evidence was taken . He 
gave a special reason for remembering this speerli that that he was admiring 
respondent No. 1 and that was actually why he attended this meeting . He sone 
what wanted to strengthen this special reason by saying that about 15 years ago 
one of his friends told him that he looked like respondent No . 1 ; he says that he 
remembered the speech because though respondent No . 1 was accused of being 
a non -Maharashtrian he was fighting for thri cause of Maharashtra and Tanksa e 
wanted to hear from respondent No. 1 what he had to say . Two other reasons 
for remembering his speech given by Tanksale are that the speech for forceful and 
he thought that it was suicidal for respondent No. 1 to contest- the election against 
respondent No. 2 from this constituency. Bhide also in the course of his evidence 
tried to give some reasons why he remembered the speech He has referred to 
the discussion that he had with others about the speech and he also says that he 
was impressed by the manner and method of respondent No. 1 in addressing a 
public meeting . If this is correct , it is difficult to understand how all of them 
substantially omitted the same points which are referred to in proved reports. 
of the speech in the newspapers, When Khambete was asked about the vario119 


5125 


. . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 ;KARTIKA 25 , 1996 
- - - . - ---- 

* * TS - - - - - - - - - - 
questions referred to by respondent No. 1 in his speech at this meeting, he frankly 
admitted that he did not remember whether respondent No . 1 said anything 
about the Chief Minister Mr. Naik , he did not remember whether he made any 
reference to the City of Washington and that he did not remember whether he 
mentioned anything about Jaya Prakash Narayan etc . 

The cyidence of these witnesses as regards the language in which respondent 
No. 1 addressed this meeting cast a considerable infirmity in their testimony . 
To illustrate this point; it would sufllce if reference can be had to the pieces of 
evidence of the various witnesses as regards the language in which respondent 
No. 1 and Mr. H , R . Gokhale , two of the speakers, addressed this meeting. In 
his evidence - in - chief, respondent No. 1 said that at this meeting he spoke in 
Maralli; Hindi and a little bit in English because Mr. Krishna Menon was on the 
platform and there was sizable audience which could not have understood Marathi 
and Hindi. According to respondent No. 1, Mr, H . R . Gokhale spoke at this 
meeting in Marathi and Gujarati. This evidence of respondent No. 1 is not at all 
challenged in his cross - examination . His testimony of the language in which 
he and Mr. Gokhale spoke is corroborated by the evidence of other witnesses 
who are examined on his behalf. Randive says that in his speech respondent 
No. 1 spoke in thres " languages - Marathi, Hindustani and English , To the same 
effect is the evidence , of Prafulla Bakshi. He says that the speech of respondent 
No. 1 was sometimes in Marathi, sometimes in Hindi and sometimes in English . 
Randive and Bakshi are not asked any questions as regards the language in 
which Mr. Gokhale spoke at this meeting . Pradhan says that he went to this 
meeting while Mr. Gokhale was addressing this meeting in Gujarati and as 
regards respondent No. 1, he said part of his specch was in Marathi and part in 
Hindi. He does not refer to respondent No. 1 having spoken in English langu 
age. However , the four witnesses from Dadar , viz ., Tanksale , Khambete , Bhide 
and Bendre say that respondent No . 1 addressed the meeting only in Marathi. 
Tanksale is not asked any question about the language in which Mr. Gokhale 
addressed this meeting. But the other three witnesess say that Mr. Gokhale 
addressed this meeting in Marathi and he did not deliver any part of his speech . 
in Gujarati. Ramkumar, so far as he recollected , said that respondent No. 1 spoke 
at this mceting in Marathi and about Mr. Gokhale he clearly said that he spoke 
at this meeting in Marathi only . About respondent No, 1 he said that he would not 
be surprised to know that at this meeting he spoke in three language viz . , Marathi, 
Hindi and English . As regards the language in which respondent No . 1 addressed 
this meeting, I accept his testimony because his evidence - in - chief in that behalf is 
not at all challenged in cross - examination and hold that as stated by him , he addres 
sed this meeting sometimes in Marathi, sometimes in Hindi and sometimes in 
English . 

There is a minor discrepancy in the testimony of these witnesses on question 
whether respondent No . 1 came late at this meeting and about the order in which 
the various speakers addressed this meeting . There is also slight difference on the 
question whether they were sitting or standing at this meeting. Bendre has said 
that at this meeting they were sitting on the right side of the stage at a distance of 
about 100 yards therefrom while Khambete said that they were standing on the 
left hand side of the stage about 60 yards away . The other two witnesses are not 
asked any questions on this aspect of the matter , 


At the outset, in his cross- examination , Tanksale who is the first witness amongst 
this group of witnesscs wanted to create an impression that it was by chance that 
hc and the other three witresses Bhide, Khambete and Bendre were served with 
the witness summons together ncar the Times of India Building on Wednesday , 
September 27 , 1967. He said that the witness summons was served on him near the 
Times of India Building . He was at that time in the car of the petitioner . He 
and his three friends were standing near the Times of India Building on the foni 
path , The petitioner came there in the car. He asked them whether they had 
any objection if the witness summons were served there and he replied in the nega 
tive. They asked the petitioner for what purpose the summor was being served 
and the petitioner replied that he had come to know that they were 
present at the meeting and he asked them whether they were willing to come to 
Court and give evidence . These answers in cross - examination are given to create 
an impression that it was by chance that he and the other witnesses were served 
with the witness summonses and were required to give evidence . His searching 
cross - examination later on , however , shows that this was an unsuccessful attempt 
by him to mislead the Court and to create a wrong impression . His further cross 
examination established that it was already pre -arranged to examine this group of 
witnesses before they were served and that they were served near the Times of 


5126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ PART II — 


- 


- 


India Building, as a result of such pre - arrangement. It emerges from his further 
cross - examination that on Saturday , September 23 , 1967, just six days before he was 
examined , he had been to the BPCC Office and on that occasion he met Mr. Mahesh 
war Thakur. First he said that he went to the BPCC Office for his own purpose 
and then he said that there was actually no purpose . He just went there as he 
often goes to the BPCC Office and meets Mr. Maheshwar Thakur, He knew him 
for the last about 10 years . He also said that he had come to know about this Elec 
tion Petition about three weeks ago. He has also given evidence about the talk that 
he had with Mr. Maheshwar Thakur this Saturday evening. Tanksale asked him 
how was the election petition going on and Mr. Maheshwar Thakur enquired : " On : 
you are from Dadar. Do you attend meetings ? " Tanksale answered in the affir 
mative . Mr. Maheshwar Thakur asked him to go to Mr. Shamrao Samant , asked 
him whether he would be able to give evidence and whether he would be able to 
say what he had heard. Tanksale replied that he would not be able to say anything 
else but he would be able to say what he had heard . Tanksale ascertained about 
the particulars of the address of Mr. Shamrao Samant. Mr, Maheshwar Thakur 
enquired whether he should pick him up and Tanksale replied that he knew where 
Mr. Shamrao Samant was residing . Aller deposing to this talk , Tanksale added , on 
Saturday evening he asked Mr. Maheshwar Thakur about what meeting he was 
asking him . That evening he was asked by Mr, Maheshwar Thakur to go to Mr. 
Shamrao Samant s house on Sunday , September 24 , 1967 at 11 A . M . Tanksale also 
said that he was taken on Sunday at 11 AM to Mr. Shamrao Samant s house by 
Mr. Maheshwar Thakur. Actually Mr. Maheshwar Thakur had asked him to go to 
Mr. Shamrao Samant s house on Sunday at 11 A . M ., in fact he had not taken him 
there. He had asked him to go there . On Monday, September 25 , 1967 in the 
morning, Tanksale and his three friends decided to go to Mr. Shamrao Samant s 
house that very night. Accordingly , they all went at night, held a discussion at 
Mr. Shamrao Samant s place for nearly an hour and half. It was then decided at 
this meeting that they all four should meet near the Times of India Building and 
it was as a result of this pre - arrangement that they were served by the petitioner 
together on September 27, 1967 in front of the Times of India Building. These 
circumstances show that the talk that he deposed to at the outset with the petitioner 
at the time of the service of the summons- the petitioner enquired of them whether 
they had any objection if they were served with the summons there , and he said in 
the negative ; that they asked the petitioner for what purpose the summons was 
being served , the petitioner said that he had come to know that they were present 
at the meeting and asked them whether they were willing to come to Court and 
give evidence is really and clearly an unsuccessful attempt to mislead the Court 
and creat a wrong impression , 

It is not disputed that it was with the assistance of Tanksale that the names of 
the other witnesses were ascertained and ultimately they were examined as wit 
nesses. The evidence of Tanksale also shows that he is fairly well acquainted with 
Mr. Maheshwar Thakur, who is the General Secretary of the BPCC and who was 
the election agent of respondent No. 2 at the election . He is also related to res 
pondent No. 2 , he being the nephew of respondent No . 2 . Tanksale also said in 
his evidence that previously he approached Mr. Maheshwar Thakur on some occa 
sions so that he might speak to respondent No. 2 who was then the Railway Mini 
ster for giving some facility for lunch hour to the employees of the Railway Admi 
nistration . He was in the habit of yisiting Mr. Maheshwar Thakur and in this 
manner , he admits having met him on or about four or five occasions. Tanksale 
is also the intimate friend of the other three witnesses , who expressed their willing 
ness to give evidence at his request. 


A serious infirmity in the testimony of these witnesses is introduced by reason of 
the fact that on the night of Monday, September 26 , 1967 — just a few days be ore 
their evidence was led - - they all met together at the residence of Mr. Shamrao 
Sainant, one of the Advocates of the Petitioner in this case for nearly 1 $ hours in 
the presence of the petitioner, Reference may well be had to what had happened 
at this meeting on Monday night. Tanksale says that that night he with his friends 
were at the place of Mr. Shamrao Samant for about an hour and half . Mr. Shamrao 
Samant asked them whether they attended the public meeting held at Shivaji Park 
on January 31 , 1967; there was a discussion between them and Mr. Shamrao about 
what happened at this meeting . He asked them what they remembered about this 
meeting. On inquiry by Mr. Shamrao Samant, something was said by Tanksale , 
something was said by Bhide, and something was said by two other witnesses. 
They were then all sitting together in the gallery . Tanksale sald that at that time, 
he did not reproduce fully the speech of respondent No. 1 about which he gave 
evidence in Court, Mr. Shamrao Samant made notes of what each one of them 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


9127 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


said . Surprisingly he then changes the story and says that no part of the speech 
of respondent No. 1 about which he gave evidence in chief was narrated by his 
friends to Mr. Shamrao Samant at the time when they went. He said that when 
he was informing Mr. Shamrao Samant about the speech of respondent No. 1 , at 
the meeting, others were seen in affirmation thereof by saying " Yes," None of the 
friends of their own said anything about the speech of respondent No. 1 which he had 
not mentioned . He has also given evidence of what was discussed in relation to 
the speech of respondent No. I at this meeting. He said that he told Mr. Shamrao 
Samant that is onduit iyo. 1 stated that respondent No . 2 was the Data of the 
BPCC , which was the stronghold of capitalist ; that respondent No. 2 got himself 
clected by creating a rift amongst voters by language ; now the voters were awake; 
that the people thought that respondent No. 2 changed ballot boxes, that he created 
manipulations of yotes , that if God himselt stood against respondent No, 2 he would 
not be able to defeat him and that that was true because God was honest but res 
pondent No, 2 was not. 


Bhide has also given evidence of what happened while they were at Mr. Shamrad 
Samant s place. He says that on enquiry by Mr. Shamrao Samant, they told him 
that they had been to the meeting , that they remembered what was said at the 
meeting, that they were willing to give evidence in the case ; that while they were 
introduced to the petitioner , the petitioner enquired of them when they would be 
able to see him again and they replied that he could see them at 6 O clock on Wed 
nesday September 27 , 1967 near the Times of India Building. As regards the talk 
in relation to respondent No. l s speech , he said that he himself did not narrate 
what was said by the speakers at the meeting , but he said that what was said by 
Tanksale was correct, that Bendre and Khambete did not also say anything and 
they merely stated that what was stated by Tanksale was correct . Lest such testi 
mony may affect his credibility , a little later in cross - examination he said that he 
could not say exactly what Tanksale told Mr, Shamrao Samant on September 25 , 
1967, that on that day , Tanksale narrated one or two points about respondent No . 1 , 
namely , the point about God and respondent No, 2 , that he also narrated about that 
point that he (respondent No. 1 ) being a non -Maharashtrian and respondent No, 2 
being Maharashtrian , that he ( Bhide ) was not attentive at that time and Tanksale 
might have said something more on that occasion . He added that when important 
points were narrated by Tanksale , he was attentive but afterwards he was not 
attentive. About what happened at Mr. Shamro Samant s place , Khambete says 
that Tanksale informed MI. Shamrao what had happened at the meeting and he 
referred to that information in his evidence in chief. Mr. Shamrao Samant did not 
ask him or Bendre but he asked everything to Tanksale . They were silent because 
there was no reason to contradict whatever Tanksale said . Then he refers to the 
talk that took place in connection with the service of the summons and says that 
there was no other talk about the evidence that was to be given . Bendre also 
says that at Mr. Shamrao s place , Mr. Shamrao asked whether they attended the 
meeting, who spoke at the meeting and what respondent No. 1 stated about res 
pondent No. 2 at the meeting. Tanksale gave the information to Mr. Shamrao 
Samant and they confirmed it. There was no occasion for him or for any of his 
friends to correct what Tanksale then said . He remembered only one sentence of 
what Tanksale told Mr. Shamrao Samant. Tanksale said that respondent No. 1 
stated that God cannot defeat respondent No . 2 because God is honest, unlike res 
pondent No. 2 ; He cannot change ballot boxes like respondent No. 2 . Bendre said 
that that was what Tanksale told Mr. Shayrao on that occasion . 


This evidence shows that there is detailed discussion on September 25 , 1967 — just 
a few days before they gave evidence about the speech of respondent No . 1 for 
about 11 hours at the place of Mr. Shamrao Samant, To a considerable extent, this 
discussion must have assisted these witnesses to depose about the controversial 
part of the speech of respondent No. 1. It may well be that it was because of this 
discussion some of these witnesses might have referred to this part of the speech of 
respondent No. 1 in their evidence. The names of all these witnesses are included 
in the last and the final list that was filed only on September 28, 1967 because when 
the earlier lists were filed in the case neither the petitioner nor anybody helping 
him in connection with this petition , knew whether the evidence of these witnesses 
will be avallable at the trial of this case . The infirmities above referred to create 
ronsiderable difficulty in accepting the testimony of these witnesses on the contro 
versial part of the speech of respondent No. 1. 


In an election petition , the charges are of a quasi criminal nature . The onus 
of establishing a corrupt practice is undoubtedly on the person who gets it up and 


5128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1990 [Part 1 .- -- 
= - = = = - = = - - - - 

- - 
the onus is not discharged on proof of mere preponderance of probability , as in 
the trial of a civil suit ; the corrupt practice must be established beyond reasonable 
doubt by evidence which is clear and unambiguous. On the evidence of these 
witnesses - -Mahadik , Ramkumar, Tanksale , Bhide, Khambete and Bendremit is diffi 
cult to hold that in the course of his speech at Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967 
respondent No. 1 stated or insinuated that respondent No. 2 won cloctions by tam 
pering with ballot boxes or substituting the same or that even God could not defeat 
defendant No. 2 because unlike respondent No. 2 , God was not dishonest , or that 
respondent No. 2 was a man of low character or had stooped to commission of 
criminal offence with the object of winning elections. Their evidence is insufficient: 
to bring home the charge of corrupt practice pleaded in paragraph . 2J ( i ) of the 
Petition . 


Respondent No . 1 . is undoubtedly an interested witness and the Court will 
norrnally be shown to accept his mere testimony if there was no corroboration ini 
the present case, the testimony of respondent No. 1 on the controversial part of the 
specch stands corroborated by the evidence of Randive , Prafulla Bakshi and Dattars 
Pradhan . In fact, each one of these witnesscs has stated that respondent No. 1 in 
his speech did not say that it was true that even God could not defeat respondent 
No. 2 because God could not exchange ballot boxes, that He (God ) was honest . 
unlike respondent No, 2. In the course of his speech , according to these witnesses, 
the words " God " and " Ballot Boxes" were no doubt referred to but they were not 
referred to in the manner suggested on behalf of the petitioner . They have stated 
that exasperated Congress workers said that God could not defeat respondent No. 2 
that God was not in the election , that voters of South Bombay can defeat respondent: 
No . 2 and that when the ballot boxes would be opened , it would be seen that res 
pondent No. 2 was defeated , 


On behalf of the petitioner, evidence of these witnesses , namely , Randive , Baksli 
and Pradhan was severely criticised and it was strenuously urged that the Court 
should be shown to accept their testimony . It will be necessary to consider the 
criticism made on behalf of the petitioner against the evidence of each one of these 
witnesses examined on behalf of respondent No . 1 . 


It was said that Randive was a partisan witness , in view of his relations with 
the Socialist Party , Reliance was placed upon his testimony wherein he was asked 
questions about his joining Socialist Party and coming into contact with the leaders 
of that party . He has admitted that as early as 1948 he had joined the Socialist 
Party ; that when Praja Socialist Party was formed , he joined that Party in the 
year 1952 , that he knew Dinkar Şakrikar , the election agent of respondent No. 1 
for the last many years, that between the years 1955 and 1957 he published the 
Patrika known as Samyukta Maharashtra Patrika ; that this Patrika strongly criti 
cised the Congress ; that because of these activities on his part he came in contact 
with leaders of Samyukta Maharashtra movement like Atre and s . M . Joshi and 
other workers of the S . S . P . like respondent No. 1, Satav , Tirodkar and others. 
These facts were admitted by him when he was asked questions which showed that 
Randive undoubtedly is in agreement with the policy of socialism and Samyu ?cta 
Maharashtra moyement. Such a political background on the part of Randive is 
insufficient to label him , however, as a partisan witness . It was because of this 
political background that efforts made to induce him as deposed to by him not to 
give evidence did not gucceed , I accept his evidence that on September 18 and 19 , 
1967 - - Just a day or two prior to his giving evidence in this case efforts were made 
as deposed to by him , both on phone as well as hy personal contact to induce him 
not to give evidence or at least to give evidence in an unsatisfactory manner . At 
the time when this evidence was led , no objection was taken as regards the adinis 
slbility of this evidence . Randive was cross - examined at full length on the other 
part of his testimony and it was thereafter that the contention was raised about the 
Admissibility of the evidence of Randive in relation to the steps being taken to in 
duce him not to give evidence in the case . Reliance was placed upon the decision 
of Attorney General v . Hitchcock ( 1847) 1 Exchequer 91 and it was contended that 
such evidence was not admissible to impeach the credit of a witness . 


This evidence about the inducement being offered to Randive is not taken on 
record to impeach his credibility. It is admissible to show the conduct of the party 
who makes a Torts to induce him not to give evidence. In Hitchcock s case , Pollock 
C , B , pointed out at p . 101 while considering the admissibility of such evidence with 
a view to impeach the credit of a witness , that was not admissible , the reason 1 , 
that it is totally frrelevant to the matter in issue that some person should have 
thought At to offer a bribe to the witness to głve art untrue account of a transactior . 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5129 


and it is of no importance whatever, if that bribe was not accepted . It is no djs 
paragement to a man that a bribe is offered to him . He, however , added " it may 
be a disparagement to the person who makes the offer ." These observations show 
that all such evidence is inadmissible to impeach the credit of a witness , but it 
may be admissible to show the conduct of the person who made the offer . Under 
section 8 of the Evidence Act, the conduct of any party or of any agent to any party , 
to any suit or proceeding , is relevant, if such conduct influences or is influenced 
by any fact in issue or the relevant fact , and whether it was previous or subsequent 
thereto . Illustration ( e ) to this section is as under : - A is accused of a crime. The 
facts that either before or at the time of or after the alleged crime, A provided the 
evidence which would tend to give to the facts of the case an appearance favourable 
to himself or that he destroyed or concealed the evidence or prevented the presence 
of or procured the absence of the persons who might have been witnesses or 
suborned persons to give false evidence respecting it are relevant. " This illustra 
tion , therefore , clearly shows that the conduct of a party or his agent in inducing 
the witness to give evidence in a particular manner is relevant and evidence to 
prove such conduct is , therefore, admissible . As this evidence was given for the first 
timc by Randivc, while he was in the witness box the petitioner would normally be 
entitled to lead further cyidence in rebuttal of such evidence even though he had 
closed his case . This deposition relates to a period much after the closing of the 
case by the petitioner and it will always be open to him to lead further evidence 
lo rebut such evidence . However , no application was made on behalf ot the Peti 
tioner after the evidence was recorded to lead any evidence in rebuttal , 


It was urged that Randivo in his evidence has clearly admitted that reference 
to God and Ballot Boxes by respondent No. 1 in his speech was made in such a 
manner that he thought that there was a personal attack on respondent No. 2 and 
that is why he did not take down those words, while writing down his notes at the 
meeting. He was, however , not asked how respondent No. 1 in his specch referred 
to or used the words "God and Ballot Boxes ," His evidence was tested in cross 
examination by reference to the reports of the specch of respondent No. 1 published 
in the issue of Blitz , Maratha and Patriot , but this cross - examination was taken 
only upto a point. When the report in Blitz (Ex . X -56 ) was shown to him , he said 
that respondent No. 1 did not say in his speech that he was standing against res 
pondent No, 2 to explode the myth that he could not be defeated in Bombay or that 
not even God could win against him , Randive added that he said in different words 
and that the report in Blitz was not an accurate report . However , he was not 
asked what he said in different words. Even when the substance of the allegations 
reported in Maratha (Ex . X -23) was pointed out to him , he said that he would 
regard the statement that God could not win against respondent No. 2 because God 
was honest and respondent No. 2 was not, as a personal attack on respondent No, 2 . 
Randive said that he said something like that in a different way but he was 
not asked what he said and in what manner . Even when his attention was drawn 
to the substance of the report of the speech in Patriot (Ex . X - 78 ) he said that he 
did not think that respondent No . 1 said in his speech that respondent No, 2 s sup 
porters claimed that even God would not defeat their boss, or that he (respondent 
No. 1 ) agreed that God was a clean fighter and would not take to switching of 
ballot boxes. Randive said that respondent No. 1 did in his speech refer to God 
as well as the ballot boxes , but he was not asked at any stage how they were 
referred to . It was only thereafter that to a question by the Court he said how 
God and ballot boxes were referred to by respondent No. 1 in his speech . He 
answered that respondent No. 1 in his speech referred to God and ballot boxes by 
making the following speech : 
" Congress workers said that God cannot defeat Patil. God is not in the 

clection . I also cannot defeat him but voters can defeat Mr. Patil 
and when the ballot boxes will be opened , you will see that Patil 

has been defeated ." 
According to Randive , these words were spoken by respondent No. 1 in Hindu 
stani and he has reproduced the actual words used by respondent No . 1 in Hindu 
stani. This examination of his evidence shows that it is not the evidence of Randive 
that respondent No. 2 in his speech said that respondent No. 2 was elected by tam . 
pering the ballot boxes or by substituting them or that unlike respondent No. 2 
God was honest . 

Prafulla Bakshi, .undoubtedly had contacts with respondent No. 1 in the past . 
He used to talk to respondent No. 1 on phone and sometimes he used to criticise the 
points made by him in speecheş or otherwise . He admitted having invited rcspon 
dent No. 1 just a few days before he gave evidence, to speak at the function at the 
Lions Club at Dahisar ; he had contacts with respondent No . 1 when the issue of 


5130 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II - - 

----- = = = 
Janta policy wag mooted by the L . I. C . and in connection with the taximen s cover , 
however , because of these contacts I am not inclned to reject his testimony. His 
re - action when he was asked to give evidence may be noted . When respondent 
No. 1 telephoned him and informed him that he was required to be a witness he 
showed respondent for mentioning his name without previous consultation . He 
wald that he was an insurance man and he did not want to be associated with such 
disputes ; as an insurance man , he would like to be an insurance man in Insurance 
business; people having different political views are agents and policy holders ; that 
is why he did not like the idea of his name being associated as a witness . 

Datta Pradhan admits having visited this meeting by chance. It was pointed 
out that his presence at this meeting was As a result of number of simultaneous 
coincidence. That this is so cannot be disputed . On that day , he was to address 
an election meeting at Mahim Causeway to carry on his election campaign , that 
that meeting started late but was over earlier than expected , as the cultural pro 
gramme that was arranged did not take place; that when he left this meeting , he 
had no idea or intention to attend the Shivaji Park merting, that he went from his 
election meeting with Bal Thakrey (one of the speakers at his election meeting ) 
to go to his office at Marmik , that it was only that while he was passing by Shivaji 
Park that he got down from the car and attended the meeting ; that at the time 
when he attended this meeting, Satav , a very sincere S . S . P . Worker, who is 
assisting respondent No. 1 in this case was by his side. It cannot be disputed that 
each one of the circumstances pointed out above is established and it is by chance 
that Pradhan happened to be present at this meeting at Shivaji Park . Howcver , 
no reason is suggested on behalf of the petitioner why Pradhan should come forward 
to give false evidence in the case. At the time of the election he was himself a 
candidate for the Assembly seat, that he belonged to Bharatiya Jan Sangh Party , 
a political body not well inclined towards the Carinist Party . In his evidence, 
there is no suggestion made of any prior contact between him and respondent No. 1. 
It will not be proper to conclude that he was not prosent at this meeting simply 
because he was to address his election meeting on that very day . 

Scrutinizing the entire evidence, it is not possible to hold that in the 
course of his speech at Shivaji Park , respondent No. 1 stated that respondent 
No. 2 used dishonest means or techniques to win the election or insinuated 
that respondent No. 2 won elections by tampering with ballot boxes Of sub 
stituting the same or that even God could not defeat respondent No . 2 be 
cause unlike respondent No. 2 God was not dishonest or alleged that res 
pondent No. 2 was a man of low character or had stooped to the commission 
of criminal offences with the object of winning elections or made any state 
ments which would have conveyed such ideas or impressions. 

Reference was made to some circumstantial pieces of evidence in support 
this charge of corrupt practice . In all three circumstances were relied upon . 
They aro ( a ) an election appeal (Ex , 56 ) issued by respondent No. 1 to voters 
in the last week of August 1966 ; ( b ) a Complaint (Ex X -49 ) filed by one 
V . L . Shanbhag on the night of February 22 , 1967 at the Dongri Police Station 
and ( c ) a report of the interview given by respondent No. 1 to the corres 
pondent of Blita and published in its isgue dated March 11, 1967 (Ex . 191). 

It is admitted by respondent No. 1 that Ex . 56 was an appeal issued by 
him to voters in various languages English , Marathi, Hindi, Gujarati and 
Urdu , In this appeal it is inter alia stated : 
" It is this popular desire that has motivated me to clash with Railway 

Minister S . K . Patil for the South Bombay Lok Sabha seat . . This I 
am doing, of course , against the advice of many of my friends and 
well -wishers who think that Patil is unbeatable - - a myth I refuse 

to share." 
" I believe that S . K . Patil is beatable and I am sure that you the voter 

from South Bombay — will do it, In fort I have always considered it 
an insult to the intelligence and integrity of the South Bombay voter 
when people mentioned that Patil is an unscrupulous politician and 

has his ways and methods " of winning elections." 
Respondent No. 1 was asked about ways and methods he had in mind of 
winning elections to which he made a reference in Ex . 58 . He replied that 
It was not his opinion he was expressing in this particular sentence of the 
appeal. He said that even since he announced his candidature from Bombay 
South Constituency , people used to tell him that his standing from this con 
atituency was suicidal, that respondent No . 2 was unbeatable , that he had his 
ways of winning elections, that this opinion came from the cross section of 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5131 


- 


- - - 


the people belonging to all political parties, that whenever he tried to con . 
front them and asked them what were those ways and methods , they would 
not specify but would merely gay that respondent No. 2 could not be defeated , 
that none of them had moral courage to give explanation of what those 
methods were , that he did not try to convey or insinuate by this appeal 
that respondent No. 2 was an unscrupulous politician , that such a thing ho 
himself did not believe, that he did not wish to convey that respondent No. 2 
had individual ways and methods to win election , He admitted that if & 
voter for money or for any other reason instead of putting his ballot paper 
in the ballot box gave it to respondent No . 2 for being put in the ballot box 
or for exchanging ballot boxes, he would consider guch activity unscrupulous 
and illegal. He, however , pointed out that such a thing was not possible 
because the ballot paper had to be put in the ballot box in the presence of the 
polling officer, Ho denied that by this paragraph in Ex . 56 he intended to 
convey to the voter the insinuation that respondent No. 2 wing the election 
by bringing the voter and manipulating the ballot boxes. 

While considering the appeal ( Ex . 56 ) it has to be remembered that Ex. 56 
is not relied upon as an instance of a corrupt practice committed by res 
pondent No. 1. I am not called upon to consider what would have been the 
position iſ such a plea was raised in this petition . The contents of Ex . 58 , 
in my opinion , are not capable of throwing light upon what respondent No. 1 
said at a public meeting held at Shivaji Park on January 31, 1967. What 
respondent No. 1 said at this meeting can ordinarily be proved by those who 
listened to his speech , 


There is ample evidence in this case to establish that V . L . Shanbhag can 
be regarded as agent of respondent No . 1 as that term is understood in the 
election law , even though respondent No. 1 was not prepared to admit it and 
gave at diverse places during his cross - examination evasive replies when 
questions about V . L . Shanbhag were put to him and even declined to admit 
things which were quite obvious. There are a number of facts which could 
be regarded as fully established and proved about V . L . Shanbhag from the 
mere testimony of respondent No. 1 himself V . L . Shanbhag was the Secre 
tary of a Committee known as “ George Fernandes for Parliament Samiti" , 
that this Samiti collected funds with a view to carry on the election campaign 
to support the candidature of respondent No. 1, that Ex. 190 is a specimen of 
one by the coupons for Rs. 5 collected for the election fund of this Samiti, 
that the address given on this coupon ig 358 - A , Jagannath Shanker Sheth Road , 
Bombay - 2 , that this was the address of one of the election offices established 
by respondent No. 1 during the election period , that during this period , 
Shanbhag used to meet respondent No. 1 once in a week or 10 days , that such 
meetings used to take place between Shanhbag and respondent No. 1 at his 
election office at Haines Road, Opposite the Electric House , and that Shanbhag 
used to do election work for respondent No . 1. The evidence of respondent No . 
1 that such election work was done by him of his own and not in consultation 
with him cannot be accepted . Reports are also published in the newspapers 
which show that Shanbhag was one of the speakers at the election meeting 
organised by the Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti. Respondent No. 1 was a 
candidate sponsored by the Samyukta Socialist Party, that this party was a 
constituent unit of the Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti, that his candidature 
was endorsed by the Bombay Unit of the Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti and 
that Samiti organised various election meetings to support the candidates sponsor 
ed and endorsed by it. Reference can be had to a report published in the issue 
of Maratha dated February 9 , 1967 (Ex , X - 55 ) . It is true that the contents of 
this exhibit are not proved as correct. But it is immaterial whether the 
contents are correct or not. What is relevant is whether the report of the type 
therein mentioned appeared in tho issue of Maratha . Ex . X -55 shown that in 
Kumbhar Wada Assembly Constituency (Part of Bombay South Parliamen 
tary Constituency ) Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti on February 9 , 1967 , 
organised a meeting at Hrabhaug Hall, C . P . Tank , at 9 p . m . that night and 
Vasudeo Shanbhag was one of the speakers at this meeting . Reference can 
also be had to the programme printed in the issue of Maratha dated February 
18 , 1967 (Ex . X - 69 ) . One of the item in this programme relates to election 
meetings arranged by George Fernandes for Parliament Sainiti. This item 
shows that this Samiti intended to hold under the auspices of Sampoorna 
Maharashtra Samiti, various election meetings on that day at different times 
at night, at Zavbachi Wadi, Thakurdwar, at Dhanall Street. at Bhat Bazar and 
at Falkland Road , that respondent No. 1 was to be one of the speakers at these 
meetings , that these meetings were arranged by the George Fernandes for 
Parliament Samiti of which V . L . Shanbhag was the Secretary . V . L . Shanbhag 


. - . - . 


- 


5132 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , . KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II - 
- - - - - - -- -- - - - - 

= = = 
was also at one time the Vice - President of the Bombay Labour Union of which 
Respondent No . 1 is the Principal founder and is ito President even since its 
inception . 


19th January , 1968 : 


V . L . Shanbhag as Secretary of George Fernandes for Parliament Committee 
on February 8 , 1967 complained to the Election Commissioner , Delhi about 
unfair and unethical electioneering practice in defacing poster s pasted on 
behalf of respondent No. 1 . A copy of that letter is marked for identifica 
tion as Ex , X - 74 . A copy of this letter was released by respondent No. 1 at 
a press conferencc held by him at Bristol Gril Restaurant on February 9 , 1967. 
On February 12 , 1967, a complaint was lodged by a person who gave his name 
as Vasudeo Laxminarayan Shanbhag residing at Noshirwan Mansion , Henri 
Road , Bombay - 1 at Princess Strect Police Station complaining about distur 
bances at an election meeting held at Dabholkar Wadi which was addressed 
by respondent No . l . When the attention of respondent No . 1 was drawn to 
the entry in the station diary of Princes Strect Police Station , he gave some 
what evasive answers . He said that he did not know whether such complaint 
Was lodged , He did not recollect whether an incident of the nature mention 
ed in the station diary took place. He did not remember whether he addressed 
a meeting at Dabholkar Wadi on February 10 , 1967. He was not able to say 
whether the signature in the station diary was that of V . L . Shanbhas . Even 
though respondent No. 1 is not prepared to admit who lodged the complaint, 
there can be no doubt, having regard to the name of the complainant as 
Vasudeo Laxminarayan Shanbhag, his address as Noshirwan Mansion , which 
is the same place as the election office of respondent No. 1, and the fact that 
respondent No. 1 was a speaker at the meeting, that this complaint is lodged 
by V . L . Shanbhag who was the Secretary of George Fernandes for Parlia 
mcnt Committee and who used to meet respondent No. 1 quite often during 
the election period, 


On behalf of the petitioner evidence is vlso led of Michael Aranha (Ex, 
175 ) , Inspector of Police in charge of Dongri Police Station , to prove that on 
February 22 , 1967, a complaint was lodged at that police station by V . L 
Shanbhag and an entry in respect thereof was made in the station diary . 
That entry is Ex . X - 49 . Michael Aranha has deposed that he made the entry 
in the station diary (Ex . X - 49 ) as a result of a complaint made by Shanbhag 
on February 22, 1967 at 11 - 40 P . M . This entry states : One Shri Shanbhag, 
who stated that he was one of the subordinates of Shri George Fernandes, 
called at the P . I. s office, asked for permission to keep his own private guard 
of five ren in the compound of Noon Baug ( Central Polling Station ) in 
addition to the arred S . R . P . guard and the guard of one S . I, and 15 men of 
Dongri Police Station . His reasons for making this request are that he had 
received information that Shri S . K . Patil would make an attempt to replace 
ballot boxes with forged ballot papers in his favour since Shri George Fernan 
des was leading him by 22,000 votes. He was told that Shri Agashe, the 
Returning Oficer, was sleeping on the first floor of Noon Baug where the 
ballot boxes are kept along with 7 men of Shri George Fernandes , hence his 
fears were unfounded but he said that he was also told that Shri Agashe was 
bribed by Shri S . K . Patil with a huge sum of money. Such a permission 
was refused to Shanbhag to keep his men in the compound since it was 
apprehended that they themselves may play mischiet by resorting to arson or 
other tactics. As the final result of the poll cannot be forecast in spite of the 
fact that respondent No. 1 was in the lead and it might suit the convenience 
of respondent No. 1 to do some mischief himself by keeping such men in the 
compound of the building . The entry further shows that it was also learnt 
from S . C . S . I. Kadam Bande that Shri Agashe was also approached by Shri 
Shanbhag with this request, but he refused to permit any outsider excepting 
the persons already there. Aranha has also in his evidence stated that he 
otherwise know Shanbhag and had occasion to see him in the past. He men 
tioned those occasions while giving his evidence He said he first came in con 
tact with V . L . Shanbhag in or about June or July 1966 in connection with a 
certain dispute over the closure of My Ideal High School situate at Ibrahim 
Rahimtoola Road . After this contact V . L . Shanbhag telephoned 
to Aranha 3 or 4 times in connection with the action taken by the 
police station in respect of taxi drivers and some accidents . Shanbhag Also 
approached him in this matter stating that he was a legal adviser of the Bombay 
Taximen s Union of which respondent No. I was President. He also stated that 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5133 


- 


- 


.. . - - - 


during the election period between the middle of December 1966 and February 
. 21, 1967, Shanbhag visited the police station several times in his capacity as 
the Secretary of George Fernandeg election committee ; that he came to the 
police station in connection with obtaining permission for holding meetings and 
some complaints connected with election propaganda, Aranha also mentioned 
that in or about the month of August 1907, Shanbhag had come to him stating 
that he wanted some records in connection with the election petition including 
the complaint (Ex , X - 49 ) . He, however , told him that the documents would 
be produced in Court if the Court so dirccted . There is no cross - examination 
of the cvidence of Aranha worth mentioning as regards the instances that he 
mentioned of his coming in contact with Shanbhag . Under the cimcumstances , 
I have no hesitation in accepting his testimony even though this evidence was 
taken on Commission , 

The above facts and circumstances provide ample evidence to hold that V . L . 
Shanbhag was the agent of respondent No. 1 as understood under the Election 
Law and it was he who on the night of February 22 . 1967 lodged a complaint 
at thc Dongri Police Station which is recorded by Michael Aranha , Inspector 
of Police at the Police Station . ( Ex . X -49) is the entry in the station diary 
in relation to that complaint. 

It is, however , difficult to understand how the lodging of such a complaint 
by V . L . Shanbhag on the night of February 22 , 1967 strengthens the case of 
the petitioner as regards what respondent No. 1 said during the course of his 
apeech at Shivaji Park , What Shanbhag did on that day cannot be correlated 
to what must have been said in the course of the speech on January 31, The 
lodging of such a complaint, in my opinion , does not go to establish that res 
pondent No. 1 in the course of his speech at that meeting at Shivaji Park used 
the words that are attributed to him . 


The third circumstance relied upon is the report of an intervicw given by 
respondent No. 1 to the correspondent of Blitz and published in the issue of 
this newspaper dated March 11, 1967 ( Ex . 191 ) . In the course of this inter 
view , respondent No. I was inter alia asked the question ; Do you think there 
was considerable garrymandering and rigging in the elections, particularly in 
North Bombay ? The report shows the answer given by respondent No . 1 as 
Under : 
" First I shall tell you about my constituency . I set up an election machi 

nery which was not only fool- proof but mischief -proof. We had 
three election agents in every booth . We followed each taxi 
carrying the ballot boxes with our own taxies , and we guarded 
. every ballot box . On the 22nd night I WAS myself in the streets 
going round the booths. So no mischief was possible in my con 

stituency . 
But in North Bombay there was lack of organisation which made mis 

chief possible , " 
When the attention of respondent No. 1 was drawn to the report ( Ex . 191) 
he said that these are normal precautions which every candidate takes at the 
election . This time for the first time the Election Commissioner said that after 
the ballot boxes are kept in the Central Counting Station , the room will be sealed 
and the candidates would be allowed to keep their own guard apart from the 
regular police guard . The Returning Officers conveyed to the candidates or their 
agents the routes by which the ballot boxes would be carried from the polling 
booths to the counting stations, so that if they so desired , they could make 
arrangements to accompany them when the ballot boxes were taken from the 
booths to the counting stations. He said that he had not set up any election 
machinery with the conscious object of preventing mischief including tampering 
of ballot boxes . He said that the entire intervicw with the reporters of Blitz 
was in the nature of discussion and the scquence of sentences in this report was 
not his . In the course of the discussion he used the sentences which are there 
in the report , but he was not sure whether he used those exact words. He said 
that no special precautions or instructions were given for keeping election agents 
in every booth for following each taxi carrying the ballot boxes with his taxi 
or for guarding every ballot box . These were the normal precautions which 
the Election Commissioner at the time of February 1967 election had issued . 


Even if the cumulative effect is taken of the three circumstances relied upon , 
they do not much advance the case of the petitioner . The principle of law ag 
regards circumstantial evidence in criminal cases is well settled . In cases 


5134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II - ... 


dependant on circumstantial evidence, the circumstances from which the con -. 
clusion of guilt is to be drawn should , in the first instance, be fully established ; 
all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of 
the guilt of the accused ; the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and 
tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one 
proposed to be proved . Judged by this principle the three circumstances relied 
upon on behalf of the petitioner cannot throw much light upon the case of the 
petitioner as regards the speech made by respondent No. 1 at ihe Shivaji Park 
meeting 

Criticism is made on behalt of the petitioner for failure on the part of respon 
dent No. 1 in examining any one of the other four Samiti sponsored candidates 
who spoke at this meeting. It is true that neither side has chosen to examine 
either Acharya Atre , M . R . Gokhale , Dangę or Krishna Menon as their witnesses . 
in the case. In fact Acharya Atre was cited as witness on behalf of the petitioner 
and was served with a summons, but he is not examined as a witness . Simply 
because these candidates were sponsored by the Samiti or their candidature was 
endorsed by the Samiti, the law does not cast any onus on respondent No. 1 to 
examine any of these witnesses to disprove the petitioner s case . The burden 
of establishing the charge of corrupt practice is entirely on the petitioner and 
no adverse inference can be drawn against respondent No. 1 for not cailing any 
one of the other principal candidates as his witness in the case , 


It may be remembered that Chandrakant G . Degai (Ex . 78 ) , the reporter of 
Free Press Journal, was examined as a witness on behalf of the petitioner to 
establish what happened at a press interview held by Jagadguru Shankaracharya 
and the proceedings of a meetings held at Chowpaty after the election His cross 
examination showed that he also covered the meeting at Shivaji Park as a re 
porter of Free Press Journal, but he was asked no questions as regards the 
spceches made at that meeting. The evidence of Chandrakant was concluded 
on September 11, 1967, but no application was made on that day to further 
examine - in - chief this witness as regards what happened at the meeting held 
at Shivaji Park on January 31. It was only after over a fortnight that on 
September 29, 1967 that an application was made on behalf of the petitioner to 
recali Chandrakant for further examination - in - chief in connection with what 
happened at the public meeting held at Shivaji Park . That application was 
opposed on behalf of the respondent No. 1 and wag rejected by me. 


As pointed out earlier , the onus of establishing a corrupt practice is undoubt 
edly upon the petitioner. That onus has to be discharged not on mere proof of 
preponderance of probability as in the trial of a civil suit ; the corrupt practice 
has to be established beyond reasonable doubt by evidence which is clear , 
unambiguous and convincing . On the evidence of Mahadik , Ramkumar, Tank 
gale , Bhide, Khembete and Bendre and on the circumstantial pieces of evidence 
relied upon and the other factors referred to , it is not possible to hold that in 
his speech at Shivaji Park , respondent No. 1 uttered the words that are attri 
buted to him in paragraph 2J ( i ) of the petition . This charge of corrupt practice 
is, therefore, not established. It is not necessary to consider the other conten 
tions that are sought to be urged on behalf of respondent No. 1 in connection 
with this charge of corrupt practice . 


The third Instance of a corrupt practice by respondent No . 1 relates to the 
statements made by him at a press conference held on February 9 , 1967 at 
Bristol Gril Restaurant. When the petition was Aled on April 7 , 1987 , there 
was no averment therein in connection with this corrupt practice. After anne 
xure Ex. E to the petition was introduced therein , pursuant to the order dated 
July 3 , 1987, there is reference to the extract of a report published in newspaper 
Maratha dated February 11 , 1967. One of the items referred to in Ex . E is this 
extract under the heading " Atrocities of Sadoba & Co . for fear of defeat " . An 
application for proper averment in connection with this charge of corrupt practice 
was made for the first time on September 12 , 1967 and that was granted by my 
order dated September 15, 1967. Pursuant to this order , paragraph 2J ( il ) was 
introdured in the petition to plead what respondent No . 1 is alleged to have 
stated at this press conference. It is alleged in this paragraph that at this press 
conference respondent No . 1 stated that respondent No. 2 was guilty of unfair 
and unethical electioneering practices; that during two weeks preceding the 
gaid press conterence , about 70 persons known to be dangerous characters had 
been let out on paroles to take part in the Congress election campaign ; a few 
persons due for externment had been allowed to stay and some guch persons 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


51351 


already externed had been allowed to return and that these bad characters 
whom respondent No. I also called Goondas had been set free and been placed 
at the disposal of respondent No, 2 . It is further pleaded that the report of tho 
press conference was published in a large number of newspapers ; that these 
allegations are clearly false ; that they were deliberately and maliciously made ; 
that respondent No. I believed them to be false and did not believe them to be 
true and were in relation to the personal character and conduct of respondent . 
No , 2 within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. 


The contention on behalf of respondent No . 1 is that at this press conferenca 
he did not utter the statements which are set out in paragraph 2J ( ii ) ; that in . 
any event, these statements are not in relation to the personal character or 
conduct of respondent No. 2 ; that they constitute a public criticism of the acts 
of the Congress workers; that they are in respect of political or public character 
of respondent No. 2 . Lastly , it was urged that it is not pleaded in the petition . 
that these statements are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of 
respondent No. 2 s election . 


The fact that a press conference was held by respondent No. 1 at Bristol 
Grill Restaurant is not a matter in dispute. It is material to find out what he 
said at this press conference. The petitioner himself was not present at this 
press conference. The declaration clause of the petition at the time when Ex, E 
is introduced , says- that this particular item in Ex . E was introduced simply 
because of such a report in Maratha, He had then not received any informa 
tion from any individual in connection with what happened at this press 
conterence . 


What transpired at this press conference is , however, sought to be established 
by tho evidence of S , Dharmarajan ( Ex . 104 ) , a reporter of the Times of India , 
who was present at this press conference . Dharmarajan was first asked in his 
evidence - in - chief to state from his memory what respondent No. 1 said at this 
press conference. He said that respondent No. 1 said that respondent No. 2 
was indulging in some malpractices ; that his election meetings were disturbed 
by men of respondent No . 2 . He, however, did not remember the actual words 
used by respondent No. 1. He only remembered the substance of what respon 
dent No. 1 said . He added that posters on behalf of respondent No. 1 were 
obliterated or effaced by Congress workers in Bombay South Parliamentary 
constituency ; that externees were not externed by the Commissioner of Police ; 
that some externees were used for election campaign ; that some persons were 
released. This was all that he said initially in his evidence - in - chief. In this 
evidence there was absolutely no reference to any statement being made by 
respondent No. 1 in relation to the personal character or conduct of respondent. 
No. 2 . It was thereafter that his attention was drawn to the report ( Ex . 105 ) 
published in the issue of Times of India dated February 10 , 1967. This new 
item was published as a result of the report made by Dharmarajan . After 
reading it he added that at the press conference respondent No. 1 stated that 
during the last two weeks, 70 persons known to be dangerous characters had 
been let out on parole to take part in the Congress election campaign ; that a 
few persons were due for externment had been allowed to stay and some had 
returned . In his cross -examination he frankly admitted that he had no indepen 
dent recollection of what respondent No. 1 stated at the press conference and 
that it was only after reading the report ( Ex . 105 ) that he was able to say what . 
respondent No. 1 stated at the press conference . 


The report (Ex . 105 ) shows that the supporters of respondent No. 1 nad 
lodged protest with the Election Commissioner against what they termed as 
unfair and unethical electioneering practice by respondent No. 2 and his men . 
A letter sent by the Committee to the Election Commissioner at Delhi and . 
telegram sent to him by the South Bombay Citizens Committee were released 
by respondent. No. 1 at this press conference . At this press conference respon 
dent No. 1 . sald that respondent No. 2 s action was against the code of conduet 
accepted by the political parties ; that respondent No , 2 s men indulged in stono 
throwing at meetings held by him and threatened and beat his men putting up 
posters or preventing them from being removed ; respondent No . 1 reiterated 
his appeal to respondent No. 2 that he should come with him on a common 
platform or any third party platform , He said that his poster s were being 
changed by Congress party ; that it has been observed that on his posters the 
Congress party is . pasting a slip printed elect in place of defeat and " who 
vote for" in place of " against in posters rcading " You must defeat S . K , Patti 


15136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ Part 1l- -- 


I . - . -. - . 


. 


... . .. . . 


. 


- - - - 


-- - - - --- - - - - : - 


- 


and " It s the people against S . K . Patil." At this press conference respondent 
No. 1 said that he was not gelting enough co - operation from the police while 
referring to stone throwing at the meetings and assault on his workers , and he 
was worried that things might go out of hand . He further alleged that during 
the last two weeks 70 persons known to be dangerous characlers had been let 
out on parole to take part in the Congress election campaign , that a few persons 
due for externment had been allowed to stay and some had returned ; that he had a 
l ew names , but he was not releasing them for obvious reason , that he had 
been told that incidents and conditions were being created , so that the election in 
Bombay could be postponed ; that by announcing central rates of dearness allow 
- ance to all State Government employees , numbering 4 millions, the Congress 
party had tried to secure about 10 million votes in the country . 


Though Dharmarajan has no independent recollection of what happened at 
this press conference , apart from reading the report ( Ex . 105 ) , respondent No. 1 
at one stage in his evidence clearly admitted that Ex , 105 is a substantially 
correct report of what he stated at the press conference . In view of this admis 
sion , I would regard that Ex . 105 is a correct report of what respondent No. 1 
said at this press conference . 

Respondent No. 1 at some places tried to justify why he said certain things 
at the press conference and later on even wanted to indicate that this report 
( Ex , 105 ) is not an accurate report of what he said at the press conference . 
Respondent No . 1 said that at this press conference , he released letter ( Ex . 67 ) 
which he wrote to respondent No . 2 ; that at this press conference he showed to 
the pressmen a big brick which was thrown at his workers at Kitchen Garden 
Lane at Jhaveri Bazar and said that one Ashwini Kumar Kamani one of his 
workers, got injured as a result thereof . He said whenever he addressed meet 
Ings in Bombay even outside his constituency , people used to complain to him 
that some notorious characters who were due for externment were not externed , 
that externment orders against them were stayed , that convicts were rcleased 
on parole and that these men were creating disturbances in the meetings ; that 
in this connection the name of Barkya Dada and one Lumba were mentioned ; 
that it was on the basis of this information at the press conference he said that 
the convict persons were released on parole and the externment orders were 
stayed and that these men were helping the Congress party . In answer to a 
question , he replied that about 50 or 70 persons were involved . At this press 
conference , according to respondent No. 1. there was no mention of the name 
of respondent No. 2 in any of these matters. He said that he did not say at 
this press conference that bad characters and Goondas were set free and were 
placed at the disposal of respondent No. 2 . In his cross - examination he said 
that he learnt that neither Barkya Dada nor Chunilal Lumba was a convict who 
was released on parole or was an externee who was not seen off or was an 
externee who was permitted to return , that apart from the name of Barkya Dada. 
he had in mind two other persons Karimshah and Ahmed Sarang as persons who 
were creating difficulties for him in the Bhandi Bazar locality . A little later in 
his cross - examination he said that he did not remember having said at this 
press conference that respondent No. 2 s men indulged in stone throwing at 
meetings. According to him , he said that Congressmen did this thing . Şiml 
larly , he added that he did not say that respondent No . 2 s men beat up his men 
putting up posters; he said that he made such a reference only to Congressmen . 


On scrutinizing the entire evidence , It appears that Ex. 105 is substantially an 
accurate report of what respondent No. 1 said at this press conference . Respondent 
No. 1, however did not say that respondent No. 2 was guilty of unfair and 
unethical electioneering practice. Respondent No. 1, however, referred to a 
" letter which his supporter had written to the Election Commissioner complaining 
about what they described as unfair and unethical electioneering practice by 
respondent No. 2 and his men . He also said during the course of this press con 
ference that during the last two wecks, 70 persons known to be dangerous 
characters had been let out on parole to take part in the Congress election 
campaign ; that a few persons duc for externment had been allowed to stay and 
that some such persons already externed had been allowed to return . It is fur 
ther allcged in paragraph 2J ( ii) of the petition that in the course of his statements 
at this press conference, respondent No, I stated that these bad characters and 
Goondas had been set free and had been placed at the disposal of Sadoba, 
respondent No . 2 . Ex. 105 shows that such a statement is not made by respondent 
No . 1 during the press conference . The reference was only to such persons taking 
part in Congress election campaign and there is no retorence that they were 
placed at the disposal of Sadoba. Ex . 105 , therefore , shows that respondent No. 1 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5137 
= : TSS = - = - - - - - 
during the course of this press conference did not say that these bad characters. 
and Goondas were set free and were placed at the disposal of respondent No, 2 . 

The question then arises whether all or any of the statements made by respon 
dent No. 1 at this press conference are false . At this press conference respondent 
No . 1 relcased to the reporters present a copy of the letter which V , L , Shanbhag . 
had written to the Election Commissioner complaining of certain unfair and un 
ethical electioneering practice. Respondent No. 1 has admitted in his evidence 
that Ex - 74 is a correct copy of the copy of the letter that he released at this press. 
conference . This letter shows that the complaint to the Election Commissioner 
was that the posters pasted in Bombay South Parliamentary constituency is can 
vass for respondent No. 1 were defaced by pasting slips on some words thereon 
and were converted by such slips to create an impression that these posters were 
to support the election campaign oi respondent No. 2 Shanbhag described such 
tactics in this letter as highly unethical and unfair and , according to him , such 
tactics were adopted by respondent No. 2 and his men . There is, however , no . 
evidence on record that such practice or tactics were not followed by the sup 
porters of respondent No. 2 . If posters reading " You must defcat S . K . Patil" or 
" Now it is the people against S . K . Patil” are defaced by pasting slips so as to 
read “ You inust clect S . K . Patil" or " Now it is the people who vote for S . K . 
Patil , this certainly will be unfair and unethical. Respondent No . 2 in his 
evidence has not stated that such complaints were not genuine or were false, 


It also appears from evidence that on February 7, 1967, respondent No . 1 wrote 
a letter ( Ex . 67) to respondent No . 2 . By this letter he pointed out to respondent 
No. 2 that two major incidents of breach of decency in electioneering had taken 
place on the previous night. These incidents relate to his volunteer being threat 
ened with a knife and to his supporters pasting posters being mercilessly beaten , 
By this letter respondent No . 1 suggested that the Sarvodaya Mandal of Bombay 
should supervise electioneering by all candidates in Bombay South constituency 
or that they should undertake joint campaigning. In this letter he also referred 
to one of his workers Ashwani Kumar Kamani being hurt as a result of stone 
throwing at a meeting held near Mangaldas Market . This letter is replied to by 
respondent No. 2 by his letter dated February 9 , 1967 (Ex. 119 ) . In this reply 
respondent No . 2 has not dealt with the allegations made in respondent No . 1 s . 
latter by stating that he does not reply to the matters which are full of innuen . 
docs or unfounded accusations. · He added that so far as violence in the election 
is concerned , he condemned it as strongly as anyone could . He added in this let 
ter that persons who might be responsible for attacking Congress leaders like 
Shri B . M , Chinai should not talk of other people s violence, that it would be the 
best policy to have a grain of practice than an ounce of gratuitous advice . This 
relpy shows that respondent No . 2 has in his reply not tried to deal with specifi 
cally the statements made in respondent No. 1 s lctter . Even while he gave evi 
dence in Court, he has not stated anywhere in his evidence -in -chiet that the 
statements in letter ( Ex . 67) are incorrect . It is the copies of the letters ( Ex . 74 . 
and 67 ) that were released at the press conference and there is no evidence worth 
corsideration to hold that the statements made in these letters were falso. 


Respondent No. 2 in his evidence stated that during election campaign , so far : 
As he knew , no cxtcrnecs were permitted to return to Bombay to participate in 
his campaign of election of the Congress or on his behalf , He did not know whe 
ther the cxecution of any externment order was being delayed against any ex 
ternec in order to enable him to participate in election campaign of the Congresg . 
or his clection campaign . He did not know whether any convict was released on 
parole in order to enable him to participate in the election campaign of a 
Congress candidate or his election campaign . He did not engage the services of 
any externce permitted to return to Bombay or of any externee against whom the : 
operation of the externment order was stayed or delayed or of a convict returned 
011 parole , 


" To the same effect is also the evidence of A . G . Rajadhyaksha ( Ex . 86 ) , the 
Commissioner of Police , Bombay . He stated that between August 1966 and Feb 
ruary 1967 , some cxternees were permitted to come to Bombay , even though the 
externment orders against them were in force . But none of these externees was 
permitted to participate in election campaign either on behalf of the Congress or 
on behall of any other candidate ; that so far as he knew , no externment order 
was held in abeyance in order to ennble any person to participate in election . 
campaign of any candidate ; that no Goonda was set free in order to enable him . 
to participate in the election campaign of respondent No. 2 ; that so far as he was 
aware , no Goonda was under detention at that time. 


5138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART JI 


This evidence of respondent No . 2 and of Rajadhyaksha, the Commissioner of 
Police , clearly establishes that amongst the statements get out in paragraph 
2J ( ) of the petition , the following staternents mąde by respondent No . 1 at the 
press conference are false. They are that during the two weeks preceding the 
said press conference , about 70 persons known to be dangerous characters had 
· been let out on parole to take part in the Congress election campaign ; that a few 
persons due for externment had been allowed to stay and some such persons 
already externed had been allowed to return . 

The question arises whether the above false statements are in relation to the 
personal character or conduct of respondent No . 2 . In the statements proved to 
be false , there is no suggestion that respondent No. 2 is either concerned with the 
release of such persons on parole or for return of externees to Bombay or for 
non - execution of the orders against externees or with their participation in the 
Congress election campaign . These false statements relate to the alleged action of 
the State Government and the Commissioner of Police. Respondent No. 1 has 
admitted that he did not make any enquiry either with the Commissioner of Police 
or with the State Government before making such a statement at the press con 
ference . But these false statements of releasing dangerous characters on parole 
r allowing externees to return or staying execution of orders against externees 

view that they may participate in the Congress election campaign cannot 
e regarded as a reflection upon the personal character or conduct of respondent 
No. 2 . The statement established to be a false statement is not in relation to 
the personal character or conduct of respondent No. 2 . In view of this Anding 
it is unnecessary to consider the other contention of respondent No. 1 in relation 
to this charge of corrupt practice. As the false statement made at this press con 
ference by respondent No. 1 is not in relation to the personal character and con 
duct of respondent No . 2 , it is not possible to hold that respondent No . 1 is 
guilty of any corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) by reason of his making such 
false statement. 

The last instance of the corrupt practice alleged to be committed by respon 
dent No . 1 personally relates to a speech made by him at an election meeting 
held on February 10 , 1967 at Sabu Sidiq Chawl. This Instance was pleaded in 
the petition as a result of the amendment allowed by me by my order dated 
September 15 , 1967. It is pleaded in paragraph 2J ( iii ) of the petition . The 
allegation is that during the course of his speech , respondent No. 1 stated that 
respondent No. 2 was an American agent, that he was a Dada of capitalists and 
that Shiv Sena was his actual creation . It is said that thereby respondent No. 2 
was shown to be a person of low moral character who indulged in the activities 
peculiar to Goondas, that he was an agent of a foreign country and associated with 
a movement, like Shiv Sena which was abhorant to a large number of voters in 
the constituency , particularly non -Marathi speaking linguistic minorities . It was 
further pleaded that the said allegations were clearly false , that they were made 
deliberately and maliciously , that he believed them to be false or did not believe 
them to be true and that they were in relation to the personal character of res 
pondent No. 2 within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 

The contentions of respondent No. 1 about this charge of corrupt practice are 
that respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech did not utter the statements 
attributed to him in paragraph 2J (lil ) of the petition . In the alternative, it is 
contended that even if such statements are proved to have been uttered by him , 
they merely express an opinion and are not publication of statements of facts , 
that these statements do not relate to the personal character or conduct of res 
pondent No. 2 , that they constitute a public and political criticism of the activities 
of respondent No. 2 and that it is not even averred in the petition that these 
statements were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of respondent 
No, 2 s election , 


To establish what statements were made by respondent No, 1 during his speech 
at this clection meeting the petitioner has brought on record a report (Ex. 111) 
made by a police reporter who covered this meeting. Ex . 111 is a report in a 
standardized form made by a police reporter which gives particulars about the 
place of the meeting , the name of the party under whose auspices it is held , the 
name of the President at this meeting and the speakers who spoke thereat. It 
also furnishes other particulars in connection with what happened at the meeting 
and the speeches made thereat. This report shows that about 300 persons 
attended this mecting and three persons including respondent No. 1 spoke at this 
meeting . The report of respondent No . 1 s speech in Ex. 111 is given as tollows : 
Respondent No. 1 in his speech said that respondent No. 2 Is the Dada ot the 
capitalists ; that he is an agent of America ; that he would sell this country to 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 23 , 1890 5139 

- - - - - 
Ainerica ; that Shiv Sena belonged to him and it should be boycotted ; that if 
inflation and corruption is to be destroyed , then people must defeat Congress ; 
that the Congress could not solve the food problem ; that respondent No. 1 posed 
è question at this meeting: what right then Congress had to remain in power : 
and he hoped that people would elect the Samiti candidates to Parliament and 
the legislative assembly . 


Ordinarily , the Court will readily accept a contemporaneous report made by 
a Police oficer as the best evidence of what a particular speaker said at a meeting . 
A police reporter who covered the meeting cannot be labelled a partisan witness . 
in the present case , however, the evidence of Ramesh Mahajan ( Ex . 110 ) , the 
police reporter who covered this meeting guffers from serious infirmities . He 
cut a very sorry figure in the witness box and appeared to be almost totally blank 
and nervous. In his evidence he said that he would not be able to remember 
what was said at this meeting without reference to his report. When he read the 
report, he remembered what he heard at that meeting . Even after going through 
the report, he said that he did not remember every word that was said at the 
meeting. He only remembered some part. He has stated that the report ( Ex . 
111 ) was made by him and it is correct. He said in his cross -examination that he 
took down notes of whatever he considered to be important for the purpose of 
preparing his notes, He did not follow any principle for taking notes of points 
which he considered important. He did not remember how long respondent No. 1 
spoke at this meeting. He added that the notes that he made at the meeting were 
shorter than the report that he submitted to the superior offlcers . He was unablo 
to say whether while preparing the report, he used the actual words spoken by 
the speaker at the meeting. At one stage, he said that respondent No. 1 spole 
at this meeting in Hindi, but at a later stage he said that he could not say whe 
ther his speech was in Hindi or Hindustani. The report ( Ex . 111 ) submitted by 
him is in Marathi and he was asked various questions about the words he used 
in this report for reporting the specch of respondent No. 1 . One of the words 
used by Mahajan in his report is Bhandvaldar and when he was asked what 
word respondent No. I used in his speech to convey this idea , he replied that he 
could not say that . He was unable to say whether respondent No. 1 in his speech 
used the word Bhandvaldar or Bhandyalshahi . To convcy the idea that res 
pondent No . 2 is the agent of America in his report ( Ex , 111 ) Mahajan has used 
the words " Americacha Nastak Ahe" , Mahajan was asked what words were 
used by respondent No. 1 to convey this idea and he replied that he did not remem 
ber what words were actually used by respondent No. 1 to convey this idea in his 
speech . He was not able to say any whether respondent No. 1 has used the 
word Sathidar in his specch . He said that as the speech was delivered about 
seven months ago , he could not say what word was used by respondent No. 1 . 
He also said that he did not remember what actually respondent No. 1 said about 
Shiv Sena to which he made a reference in his report. In his report he has said 
" Shiv Sena Hi Sa . Ka. Patlanchi Ahe." He was asked to translate these words 
in Hindi, but he was unable to do so . This evidence of Mahajan shows that it 
will be completely unsafe to place any reliance upon his report ( Ex . 111 ) to 
ascertain what respondent No. 1 said at this meeting about respondent NO . 2 . 


Besides the evidence of Mahajan , on behall of the petitioner two other wit 
nesses — Abdul Sattar (Ex . 114 ) and Illyas Azmi (Ex . 164 ) — were examined to 
establish what respondent No. 1 said at this meeting about respondent No . 2 . 
Abdul Sattar is working as a Development Officer in the Life Insurance Corpora 
tion and he is an ordinary resident of Malad , a suburb of Bombay , which is miles 
away from the place Sabu Sidiq Chawl where this meeting was held at night. 
According to Abdul Sattar, in the course of his speech respondent No. 1 said that 
respondent No. 2 is the agent of America ; that he is going to sell our country to 
America ; that he is the Dada of capitalists ; that Shiv Sena has the backing of 
respondent No , 2 . 


The other witness Illyas Azmi is an active worker of the Congress and he 
said that he attended this meeting. In the course of his speech respondent No. 1 
stated that all these years, Congress had done nothing for the people ; that res 
pondent No. 2 was an agent of foreign industrialists and capitalists ; that respon 
dent No. 2 claimed that he was a sympathiser of Muslims, but that was not so ; 
that he created Shiv Sena ; that Shiv Sena was run by the funds of respondent 
No. 2 ; that respondent No , 2 was not the candidate of poor persons, but was the 
Dada of big industrialists of India . 


I am not impressed by the evidence of either of these two witnesses . Abdul 
Sattar is an ordinary resident of Malad , a place several miles away from Sabu 


5140 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 

= 

: .. - " - : - - . - *. ---- - - = = - = - = - = - = -= - = = : 
Sidiq Chawl, where the meeting was held . He says that it is his practice every 
day to go home only at about 11 or 11- 30 P . M , even though he stays there with 
his family . As Development Officer he lised to go out to procure work from : 
every agent. On the day of this meeting , i. e ., on February 10, 1 .767, he yald that 
he had been to his friend Issak Batatewala at about 6 - 30 P . M . He left his house 
after about 45 to 50 minutes . The mccting at Sabu Sidiq Chawl was held after 
8 - 15 pm , and to justify his presence at this meeting , he said that the intervening 
time he spent in taking tea in Radio Restaurant and in doing some work in the 
restaurant while taking tea . He said that there was no particular hurry for doing 
the work in the restaurant. He was, however , unable to give particulars of the 
work that he did there . His presence at this meeting is highly unnatural. He is . 
unable to say whether there were loudspeakers at this meeting or not. He was: 
unable to say or explain the context in which respondent No. 1 in his speech : 
stated that respondent No. 2 was the agent of America . He says that he remem 
bered that respondent No. 1 stated that respondent No. 2 is the Dada of capitalists 
because a serious attack was made on him . He remembered about Shiv Sena 
because he considered that important, but he was unable to yive any reason why 
he thought that to be important. He said that about a month and a half or two 
months before he gave his evidence. he talked about this speech to one H , P . 
Samant, but he was not sure about his initials. He said at this time Samant 
asked him whether as a Development Officer , he used to move from place to 
place and whether he attended meetings and he said Yes and he mentioned the 
mectings that he attended . He said Samant asked him whether he should in 
clude his name in the list of witnesses and he replied in the affirmative. He then 
enquired for what he was to be a witness and he was told that he had filed an 
election petition and his presenoc was required to give evidence in that case . Ho! 
said that before he stepped into the witness box , he knew that he was to give 
evidence about the meeting held on February 10 , 1967 at Sabu Sidiq Chaivl, but 
he did not know what he had to say . He was unable to say who addressed this : 
meeting before respondent No . 1 . He was unable to reproduce any part of the 
speech made by other speakers at this mceting. The name of Abdul Sattar is : 
mentioned as a witness in the third list of witnesses that was filed only on 
August 22, 1967. The evidence of Illyas Azml also suffers from several inſirinities , 
He is an active member of the Congress and he worked for respondent No . 2 , 
He was the polling agent of respondent No. 2 at the election . He knew 
Mr. Patkar , the son - in - law of respondent No . 2 . Even though in his evidence he 
refers to having a talk with the petitioner before he gave evidence , the potitioner 
does not in his evidence refer to any such talk of Illyas Azmi coming forward to 
give evidence in this case , In view of these infirmities in the evidence of Abdul 
Sattar and Illyas Azmi, Mr. Cooper , when he was arguing his case , frankly con 
ceded that it would not be proper for him to submit that the Court should , on 
the testimony of these two witnesses . Abdul Sattar and Illyas Azmi, hold that 
respondent No. 1 in the course of his speech uttered the words that were attribut - . 
ed to him , 

Respondent No. 1 has given evidence of what he said at this meeting . In his 
specch he referred to the food problem and the PL 480 deal, to the campaign that: 
was directed against him about his place of birth , He repudiated such campaign 
by saying that he had no say about his place of birth . He referred to the cam 
paign that Shiv Sena was making against him . He condemned the activities of 
Shiv Sena . He referred to the housing problem of Bombay and hold the Govern 
ment responsible for not solving the housing problem . He denied having said at 
this meeting that respondent No. 2 was the Dada of capitalists . He said that he 
called him a friend of the capitalists. To conycy the idea of friend , he used tlie : 
Hindustani word Dost . He denied having said at this meeting that respondent 
No, 2 was an agent of America or of foreign industrialists or capitalists or that 
Shiv Sena belonged to respondent No. 2 . He, however, said that Shiv Sena was 
campaigning against him and wanted him to be defeated and that Respondent 
No . 2 should be elected . He referred to various other things which he said at 
this mceting , but it is not necessary to reproduce them as they are not germane to 
the part of the controversy in this case , 


In view of the scrious infirmities in the evidence of Mahajan , Abdul Sattar 
and Illyas Azmi, it is not possible to hold that the charge levelled against respon 
dent No . 1 in paragraph 2J ( iii ) of the petition is proved . I am not prepared to 
hold on their eyidence that in the course of his spccsh at Sabu Sidiq Chawl. TOS - , 
pondent No. 1 said that respondent No . 2 was an agent of America or that he 
was a Dada of capitalists or that Shiv Sena was his actual creation or conveyed 
the idea that respondent No. 2 was a person of low moral character or indulged 
in activities peculiar to Goondas or was an agent of a foreign country of was 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5141 

- - - - 
associated with movement like Shiv Sena or used any words to convey this idea .. 
It is , therefore , unnecessary to consider thc other contentions urged on behalf of 
respondent No. 1 in relation to this speech at Sabu Sidiq Chawl. . 

These are all the instances of corrupt practices alleged to be committed by 
respondent No. 1 personally . The petitioner has failed to bring home guch 
commission of corrupt practices on the part of respondent No. 1 , 

The second category of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) relates to corrupt 
practice committed by a person other than respondent No . 1 but in his immediate 
presence. Only one instance of such corrupt practice is relied upon . This per 
tains to a speech made by Mr. Madhu Limaye at a public meeting held at 
Chowpaty on January 8 , . 1967. That meeting was presided over by respondent 
No. 1 himself. 

In paragraph 2E of the petition reference is made to various false statements 
alleged to be made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at the time of his pres3 con 
ference held in Bombay on February 16 , 1967. In this paragraph Jagadguru iş 
alleged to have stated that respondent No . 2 had a hand in the incidents which 
took place at Delhi on November 7 , 1966 and in particular the arson committed 
at the house of the Congress Prezident and injuries inflicted on the inmates of that 
house . It was insinuated that respondent No. 2 had participated in a plan to have 
the Congress President assassinated . After referring to this statement alleged to 
be made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya , it is further pleaded that earlier such . 
allegations had been made by Mr, Madhu Limaye, who contested elections to Lok . 
Sabha on the Samyukta Socialist Party ticket, that the said ullegation by Jagad 
guru Shankaracharya and Mr. Madhu Limaye were given wide publicity in 
Maratha ; that they were inspired by respondent No. 1 and were made with his 
consent or approval or for his benefit ; that they tended gravely to impair the 
personal character and conduct of respondent No. 2 and prejudice the prospects 
of his clection and that this constituted a corrupt practice within the meaning of 
Section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. Nowhere in this paragraph or in any other part of the 
petition reference was made to the time when or the place where such allegations 
were alleged to have been made by Madhu Limaye. By his Advocate s letter 
dated July 3 , 1967 (part of Ex , 66 ) respondent No . 1 called upon the petitioner s 
Advocate to furnish particulars of the time, day and place where Mr. Madhu 
Limaye made şuch allegations and the names of the persons to whom such alle 
gations were made. By the letter dated August 4 , 1967 (also part of Ex . 66 ) the 
petitioner s Advocate stated that such spearh was made by Mr. Madhu Limaye at 
Calcutta and Bombay on November 20 , 1966 and January 8 , 1967 respectively , 
that the report of the first speech appeared in Bombay edition of Indian Express 
dated November 21, 1966 , that the second speech was made at a public meeting 
held at Chowpaty when he addressed SSP election propaganda meeting , that 
respondent No. 1 was present at that meeting, and he presided over that meeting . 
Later on , while the evidence of the petitioner was being taken in this petition on 
September 12 , 1967, an application for amendment of the petition by introducing 
therein inter alia paragraph 2J ( iv ) was made and I allowed the said application 
by my order dated September 15 , 1967. It is significant to notice that even though 
in the letter giving particulars reference is made to the speech made by 
Mr. Madhu Limaye both at Calcutta and at Bombay , the allegations in paragraph 
2J ( iv ) of thc petition are only restricted to the statements alleged to be made 
by Mr. Madhu Limaye at a meeting held at Chowpaty in Bombay on January 8 , 
1967. It is pleaded in this paragraph that in the course of his speech at Chowpaty . 
Mr. Madhu Limaye alleged that respondent No . 2 had a definitc hand in the rlot 
that took place in Delhi in early November , 1966 during the course of which an 
attack was made on the inmates of the house of the Congress President and the 
house itself was set on fire . that there was a plan to murder the Congress 
President, that respondent No. 2 was involved in the making and execution of the 
said plan , that some Congress Goondas were sent in the guise of Sadhus to parti 
cipate in the said plan , that these allegations were made in the presence and 
hearing of respondent No. 1 , that at that time Mr. Madhu Limaye was the agent . 
of respondent No . 1, that the said allegations were made with the consent of res 
pondent No. 1 and in his interest, that they were utterly false and were known 
to be false both 10 respondent No, 1 and to Mr. Madhu Limaye, that neither of 
them belicyed the same to be true , that they materially affected the result of the 
election to the detriment of respondent No. 2 and to the benefit of respondent 
No. 1 , 


The contentions on behalf of respondent No . 1 are that Mr. Madhu Limaye in 
the course of his speech at the meeting at Chowpaty did not utter the words that 
are attributed to him in paragraph 2J ( iv ) of the petition . In the alternative, it . 


51,43 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 15, 1890 [ Part 11 — 


is submitted that if these words were uttered by Mr. Madhu Limaye in his speech , 
it- is not established that on the day when this speech was made, respondent No. 2 
was a candidate , that these words were not uttered by Mr. Madhu Limaye with 
the knowledge or consent of respondent No . 1 , that Mr. Madhu Limaye was 
not the agent of respondent No. 1 and that it is not proved that the result of the 
election is materially affected by the speech of respondent No. 1 . 


With reference to the speech alleged to be made by Mr. Madhu Limaye on 
November 20 , 1966 at Calcutta , no evidence is led except producing on record the 
report of a news item in the newspaper Indian Express dated November 21, 1966 
( Ex , 73 ) . This news item purports to be a report of a statement alleged to be 
made by Mr. Madhu Limaye while on his way to New Delhi b y air after election 
ta ks with West Bengal Left leaders . This news item reports that Mr, Madhu 
Limaye is alleged to have stated that Mr. Atulya Ghosh used the Delhi anti - cow 
slaughter protest to remove Mr. Nanda from the cabinet, that he charged that a 
few days before the movement started , Mr. Ghosh and respondent No. 2 had 
given al ultimatum to Mr. Nanda that if he wished to stay on , he would have to 
drop the cases against Sunil Das and Tarapada Chakravarti who had been arrested 
for alleged espionage sometime ago . Mr. Madhu Limayc is alleged to have stated 
that big monopolists who had been gunning at Nanda for a long time also acted in 
collusion with a powerful faction of the Congress whose leadership was syndicat 
ed by Mr. Atulya Ghosh , respondent No. 2 and Mr. Reddy to remove Mr. Nanda , 
that he had never been a greater supporter of Mr. Nanda , that he would like to 
find out the reasons for his exit, that Mr. Nanda took up corruption cases and that 
infuriated his enemies, that many Goondas were hired in Calcutta and taken to 
New Delhi at the instance of the involved faction of the Congress . Apart from 
producing this report on record , no other evidence is brought on the record to 
establish the truth of the statements contained in this report . Such allegations 
cannot be held to be proved merely by production of the newspaper wherein the 
report appears . Simply by production of Ex . X . 73 , it is impossible to hold that 
Mr. Madhu Limaye made a statement as therein reporter . 


One of the contentions urged in the course of the argument was that even 
though in paragraph 2 of the petition it is pleaded " Earlier such allegations had 
been made by Shri Madhu Limaye who also contested the election to the Lok 
Sabha on the Samyukta Socialist Party ticket" it was pointed out that when the 
written statement was filed on behalf of respondent No. 1, this allegation is not 
denied . It is undoubtedly a lapse while drafting the written statement. It may 
as well be due to the fact that the time, place and the occasion for making the 
statements by Mr. Madhu Limaye were not pleaded . In the absence of such 
particulars it was, however , open to respondent No . 1 to plead a statement stating 
that he does not admit the correctness of the allegation . That he has not chosen 
to do . However , having regard to the nature of the trial of an election petition , 
a mere failure to deny an allegation cannot much assist the petitioner , The ques 
tion whether a corrupt practice prescribed by section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act can be 
held to be proved merely on the ground that no specific denial has been made by 
the returned candidate in his written statement in that behalf was considered by 
the Supreme Court in the case of Dr. Jagjit Singh v . Giani Kartar Singh and 
others , A . I. R . 1966 Supreme Court 773 . It is pointed out that the onus to prove 
the essential ingredients of section 123 ( 4 ) is on the petitioner and so, it would be 
for him to prove that the statement is false and that the other requirements of 
the section are satisfied . Having regard to the nature of the corrupt practice which 
is prescribed by section 123, the Supreme Court was not prepared to hold that 
the strict rule of pleadings prescribed by Order 8 Rule 5 of the Code of Civil 
Procedure can bc blindly invoked in election proceedings of this type. This deci 
sion , thercfore , shows that the absence of a denial in the initial written statement 
of respondent No. 1 does not assist the petitioner much . Even without a denial 
he has to establish all the ingredients of a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) . 
It may be pointed out that after the petition was allowed to be amended pursuant 
to order dated September 15 , 1967 and paragraph 2J ( iv ) was introduced , respon 
dent No. 1 has filed a further supplementary written statement denying these 
allegations so far as the speech made at a meeting at Chowpaty are concerned . 


At this meeting, at Chowpaty the petitioner himself was not present. He said 
that somewhere on 8th or 9th January 1967, he learnt about the allegations made 
by Mr, Madhu Limaye at Chowpaty meeting from Ulhas Aras ( Ex . 173 ) . After 
the talk with Ulhas Aras, he did not make any effort to find out whether such a 


- 


- - - - - 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 51.43 
- - 
speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye at Chowpaty meeting was reported in the news 
paper Maratha or any other newspaper He said that he knew that this parti 
cu ar speech was reported in newspapor Maratha , but he did not remember whe 
ther he read that report before or after the talk he had with Ulhas Aras . He ad 
mitted that he had not mentioned in the petition about this statement made by 
Mr. Madhu Limaye at Chowpaty . He said that he came across this speech of 
Mr. Madhu Limaye while he was going through the various issues of Maratha 
after the election petition was filed . He did not remember whether he took that 
particular issue of Maratha where the speech of Mr, Madhu Limaye was reported 
to his Counsel, His attention was then drawn to the report ( Ex , Y - 2 ) published 
in Maratha dated January 2 , 1967 of this speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye and he had 
to admit that in this report, there was no reference to the particular speech of 
Mr, Madhu Limaye at Chowpaty containing the allegations now made. He was 
unable to point out any newspaper wherein a report of the statement of Mr. 
Madhu Limaye s speech at Chowpaty , implicating respondent No. 2 as having a 
hand in Delhi disturbances was published , 


So far as the speech of Mr, Madhu Limaye at this meeting is concerned , the 
record in the case is very satisfactory , On behalf of the Police Department this 
meeting was covered by Ramesh Srivastav ( Ex, 112 ) and he took down exhaus 
tive notes in shorthand of the speech made by Mr. Madhu Limaye at this meeting . 
Ex , 113 is the report of this speech made by Srivastav . He has stated that it is 
his practice to take notes in shorthand of the speech of a speaker if he was present 
at the meeting during his speech and he prepared his report from such shorthand 
notes . He says that Ex , 113 is the correct record of the speech of Mr. Modhu 
Limaye. That report is made in Hindi. There is no cross - examination worth 
mentioning of thiz witness and the authenticity of the report made by him of the 
speech of Mr, Madhu Limaye is not challenged in cross - examination . At this 
meeting Mr. Madhu Limaye was sometimes speaking, fast and sometimes speaking 
slow , but he did not And any difficulty in recording in shorthand what Mr. Madhu 
Limaye said at the meeting. The report that he made was not a verbatim report 
of the speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye , but is was a detailed report . 


22nd January , 1968 ; 

The reporter (Ex, 113 ) is covered by one Srivastav, a Hindi Reporter of the 
Special Branch , CID Bombay . The report shows that in the course of the speech 
Madhu Limaye referred to the riots that took place at Delhi on November 7 , 1966 . 
The extract from this report in connection with the riots at Delhi runs thus : 
" This Congress Party has become so much rotten . Even they are fighting 

so much amongst themselves that they are thinking of cutting each 
other s throat . I have been speaking since 16th November and I am 
anxious to show to you people that in relation to the ban on cow 
slaughter, whatever has taken place on 7th November 1966 in Delhi 
is that a device was contrived to kill the President of the Congress , 
the leader of the Congress . In Delhi the riot was engineered , some 
Goondas were sent there in the dress of Sadhus. In this behalf one 
report of the Special Branch of West Bengal was sent to the Govern , 
ment. A scheme was devised to set fire to the house of Kamra ) 
and to kill him . The Home Ministry had received information about 
this story . Even then today our Chavan Saheb is sitting keeping 
silent. Indira Gandhi also has been sitting keeping silent. It is 
possible that I may have a copy of that report. If a report of this 
type has come, what is the real secret behind it ? This shows then 
these Congresswalas- -how much they have fallen down , how rotten 
the party has become. Are you going to vote for them ? I am 
pained that you will give your vote to Patil Saheb . Will you people 
give your vote to him ? . . . . " 


Then there is criticism of respondent No . 2 as a Food Minister and Rallway 
Minister. But apart from this , there is no other reference in this report to the 
riots at Delhi on November 7 , 1966 and the plot hatched to murder the Congress 
President. This report, therefore, does not support the cose of the antitinner in 
respect of the allegation made in para 2J ( lv ) of the petition . Mr. Madhu Limaye 
has referred to a plan to murder the Congress President and sending of Goondas 
in the dress of Sadhus to Delhi, but the name of respondent No . 2 is not assoola 
ted with this plan or the sending of Goondas to Delhi. Probably Mr, Madhu 
Limaye was referring to a plan alleged to be hatched in West Bengal as there jg . 
a reference to the report of the Special Branch in West Bengal. 


- - - . 


. . 


. 


- - - - 


- - 


5144 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA ? 5 . 1890 [PART 11 - - 

- - - - 
Besides the evidence of Srivastav, the petitioner has led the evidence of two 
other witnesses Ulhas Krishnarao Aras ( Ex . 173 ) and Kalyanji Nanji Poladia 
( Ex . 174 ) . Both these witnesses stated that they were present for some tiine . 
at this meeting held at Chowpaty on January 8 , 1967 as they had been there 
for a walk . According to Aras, Mr. Madhu Limaye criticised respondent No. 3 , 
He said that when respondent No. 2 was a Food Minister , he did not go to yillages . 
and inspire the villagers to grow more food , that when respondent was a Railway 
Minister, there were many accidents in his regime, that respondent No . 2 sent 
Goondas in Delhi on November 7 , 1966 when there were Sadhus riots , that the 
Goondas dressed themselves as Sadhus, that they attacked Congress President and 
burnt his house. He said that they were at this meeting for about 30 or 35 
minutes and they left the meeting when Mr. Madhu Limaye was speaking at the 
meeting . Poladia also says that he remembered three principal points of the 
speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye about respondent No . 2 . He says that when res 
pondent No. 2 ,was the Food Minister , he did not go to villages to encourage agri 
culture but imported food from America , that the existing shortage of food was 
due to respondent No , 2 because when he was the Food Minister , he did not take 
such steps as would encourage to grow more food , that he is responsible for the 
present shortage in food grains, that when respondent No . 2 was the Railway 
Minister , there were many railway accidents, that such number of accidents had 
never taken place earlier , that he took no steps to prevent such railway accidents , 
that he did not resign though his resignation was asked for , that he was bor, 
moved by seeing the faces of persons, that on November 7 , 1966 , when there was 
agitation by Sadhus at Delhi, that agitation was not really by Sadhus, that respon 
dent No, 2 sent from here persons who dressed themselves as Sadhus and they 
participated in the agitation , that such persons attacked the house of Kamraj andt 
his house was burnt that after setting fire to the house of Kamraj, their pan 
was to murder Kamraj but they did not succeed , that such deterioration had 
entered the Congress , that people were out to murder their leader ; he posed a 
question to the audience will give you vote to such a party . Thus both Poladia 
and Aras refer to the same three principal points in the speech of Mr. Madhu 
Limaye, namely , performance of respondent No. 2 as a Food Minister , his perfor 
mance as a Railway Minister and his participation in the plot to murder the 
Congress President and in sending persons in the guise of Sadhus to participate 
therein . Of course , Poladia narrated this in a more detailed manner than done 
by Aras. 

This evidence of Aras and Poladia about Mr. Madhu Limave having in his 
speech implicated that respondent No. 2 had a hand in the riots that took place at 
Delhi and in the plan to murder the Congress President and that he sent Goondas 
in the guise of Sadhus to participate therein is not corroborated by 
the report of Srivastav ( Ex . 113) . That report is A contemporancous 
document taken by police reporter in shorthand . As the evidence of Srivastav 
shows he had no difficulty in following the speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye and in 
taking down the detailed notes. Though , this is not a verbatim report of the 
speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye , as Srivastav says, it is detailed report. In this 
report, there is a refcrence to murder the Congress President during the distur 
bances of November 7 , 1966 , but it does not state that Mr. Madhu Limaye alleged 
that respondent No. 2 had a hand in such a nlan . This evidence of Poladi:1 and 
Aras , when they say that Mr, Madhu Limaye in the course of his speech alleged 
that the agitation in Delhi on November 7 , 1966 was not rcally by Sadhus, that 
such agitation was bv persons who were sont in the Arass of Sarthus hy respondant 
No 2 . that these persons attacked the house of the Congress President and burnt 
it and their plan was to murder Kamrał cannot be accepted as true . They have 
either misunderstood the specch of Mr, Madhu Limaye or they are not at all tel 
Ing the truth . Ulhas Aras not being familiar with Hindi may misunderstand 
the steech of Mr. Madhu Limaye , but it is surprising how Poladia deposed about 
Mr. Madhu Limaye having implicated in his speech that respondent No. 2 had 
a hand in Delhi riots . He is M . A , of the Bombav University with Hindi a 
special subject . Misunderstanding on his part of the speech of Mr Madhu 
Limaye is not ordinarily likely to arise . This shows that these two witnesses 
have invented the story that Mr. Madhu Tumava in hint napnh agint that reinon 
dent No. 2 had a hand in the riots that took place in Delhi and that he sent Goon 
das or persons in the guise of Sadhus to participate therein . 

Respondent No. 1 hs lso given evidence about the contents of the stercli of 
Mr. Madhu Limaye at this meeting . According to him , Mr. Madhu Limaye in his 
speech at this meeting referred to many of the issues that were referred to in 
Parliament in which certain ministers were involved , notably Mr. Subramaniam , 
Mr. Manubhai Shah and Finance Minister Mr. Sachin Chaudhary . He also re 
ferred to the rioting that took place in Delhi on November 7 , 1966 and said that 


- 


. 


. - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


" - - 


SEC , 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 ,-1890) 5145 

--- - 
the West Bengal Government had a report which had been prepared by its CID 
and which was coveyed to the Central Government. He posed a question as to 
why this report was suppressed . He even hinted that he might have a copy 
even produced , According to respondent No, 1 Mr. Madhu Limaye in his spcech 
did not say that respondent No. 2 had a hand in the incident which took place in 
Delhi on November 7 , 1966 and in particular arson committed in the house of the 
Congress President and injuries inflicted on the inmates of his house, So far as 
respondent No. 2 recollected , Mr. Madhu Limaye referred to a plot having been 
hatched in West Bengal by a section of the Congress to create riots in Deini and 
to kill the Congress President; Mr. Madhu Limaye did not associate respondent 
No . 2 s name with anything that happened in connection with the riots at Delhi; 
in the speech M . Madhu Limaye did not make any attack on the personal charac 
ter of respondent No. 2 . In his cross - examination , he said that he did not 
believe that respondent No. 2 had any hand in the Sadhus riots that took place 
in Delhi on November 7 , 1966 ; or that Congressmen from any part of the country 
were sent to Delhi in the garb of Sadhus to participate in the Delhi incidents ; 
that Congress had sent any Goondas to participate in the Delhi disturbances , or 
that Congressmen had planned either to commit arson at the house of the Con 
gress President or to murder him or that the Congress men had at all engineered 
Delhi riots. At this meeting at Chowpatty Mr. Madhu Limaye referrred to a 
plot having been hatched in West Bengal by a faction of the Congress to create 
riots in Delhi, and to kill the Congress President. Mr. Madhu Limaye said that 
he had heard that riots in Delhi were engineered and some Goondas were sent 
in the garb of Sadhus , that the Congress Party had become so much rotten , that 
they were fighting so much amongst themselves that they were thinking of cutting 
each other s throat. Respondent No . 1 did not remember whether Mr. Madhu 
Limaye said in his speech from where Goondas were sent in the garb of Sadhus. 
Respondent No. 1 denied that Mr. Limaye in his speech at Chowpatty had olabora 
ted his earlier accusation made in the month of November that Respondent No. 2 
and Atulya Ghosh had a hand in sending Goondas to Delhi in the garb of Sadhus, 
Respondent No. 1 said that after referring to the Sadhus riots in Delhi and that 
the Congress had engineered them , Mr, Madhu Limaye posed a question to the 
audience " Are you going to votc for respondent No. 2 ? ” This shows that the 
evidence of respondent No. 1 about the speech of Mr. Madhu Limaye at the 
meeting at Chowpatty is consistent with what is recorded by Srivastay in his 
report ( Ex . 113 ) . 

in view of this evidence, the petitioner has failed to establish as pleaded by 
him in para 2 - J ( iv ) of the petition that in the course of his speech , Mr. Madhu 
Limaye alleged that respondent No . 2 had a definite hand in the riots that took 
place in Delhi in carly November 1966 or that respondent No. 2 was involved in 
the making or execution of a plan to murder the Congress President. The 
charge contained in this paragraph , is thereforc , not proved . It is unnecessary 
to consider the other contentions urged on behalf of respondent No. 1 in connec 
tion with this charge of corrupt practice, 

The third category of corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act consists 
of the statements made by a person other than respondent No. 1. Such state .. 
ments are not made or published in the immediate presence of respondent No . i. 
This category consists of two sub - categories , viz ., ( 1 ) the statements pub ished 
by Alre in his Daily Newspaper Maratha from time to time and ( 2 ) the statements 
made by Jagadguru Shankuracharya of Puri Pith both at a Press Conference held 
in Bombay on February 16 , 1967. The question then arises whether Atrc by 
publishing various articles, news items, cartoons and / or editorials in the several 
issues of Maratha committed a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 
123 ( 4 ) of the Act. 


This corrupt practice pleaded in a number of paragraphs in the petition . In 
para 2E , it is alleged that the newspaper Maratha was the vocal mouth - piece of 
Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti, that it enjoyed wide circulation throughout Maha 
rashtra and in particular the Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency , that 
scurtilous articles were published in the said newspaper against respondent No. 2 , 
that the allegations made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya and Madhu Limayc wcre 
given wide publicity in Maratha . In para 2H it is alleged that on the eve of elec 
tions a totally false statement was given wide publicity particularly in the news 
paper Maratha, an accredited organ and mouth -piece of Samiti which was backing 
up the first respondent to the effect that respondent No. 2 had paid Rs. 15 lakhs 
to Mr. Jack . Şequiera and was instrumental in the frustration of the efforts of 
Maharashtrians to unite Goa with Maharashtra . In para 2 - I of the petition , it is 
alleged that from time to time various news items and other information was 


51 , 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA ? 5, 1890 [PART II— 
= = = = 

= - - - - - - - - 
published in Maratha falsely associating the name of respondent No . 2 with Shiv 
Sena by describing it as " Sadashiv Sena ." In para 2J of the Petition , it is al 
leged that false statements in relation to personal character and conduct of respon 
dent No. 2 were published in the various issues of Maratha therein specified . Re 
ference was made to 34 issues of Maratha and after Ex . E was permitted to be 
introduced pursuant to the order dated July 3 , 1967, the various items and / or 
extracts that were relied upon were referred to therein . It is the case of the 
petitioner in this petition that the Daily newspaper Maratha and its Printer & 
Publisher P . K . Atre was the agent of Respondent No . 1, that the various publi 
cationg therein were made in the interest of respondent No. 1 and with his 
consent, that the same have materially affected the result of the election to the 
detriment of respondent No. 2 and the benefit of respondent No. 1. As pointed 
out above, reference is made to about 34 issues of Maratha between December 12 , 
1966 and February 31, 1967 wherein false statements in relation to personal 
character and conduct of respondent No. 1 are alleged to have been published . 
In Ex , E to the petition , as originally introduced , reference was made to about. 
50 items of extracts from these 34 issues of Maratha as constituting the instances 
of corrupt practices under section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act. On September 15 , 1967, 
Mr. Jethmalani on behalf of the Petitioner made an application for deletion of 
about 28 items or extracts from Ex . E , to the petition . There remained there 
after in Ex . E only 22 items or extracts from Maratha as constituting the instances 
of corrupt practices . At the trial, reference was made on behalf of the petitioner 
only to 19 extracts or items published in Maratha between December 12 , 1966 and 
February , 20 , 1967 as instances of corrupt practice relied upon . Even during the 
course of the trial at the stage of arguments, out of these 19 extracts, two items, 
viz .. Ex . X - 28 published in the issue of Maratha dated January 21, 1967 and Ex , 
X - 30 published in the issue of Maratha dated February 3 , 1967 were given up . 
There thus remained for consideration only the remaining 17 items or exiracts: 
from Maratha, as instances of corrupt practice under s . 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 

It is the case of the petitioner that Atre as the editor , publisher and the pro 
prietor of Daily Maratha is the agent of Respondent No . 1 as that term is under 
stood under the election law , that at the instance of or with the consent, know 
ledge, approval or connivance of respondent No. 1 and for his benefit, Maratha 
published various false and scurrilous writings, news items, cartoons and 
editorials in relation to personal character and conduct of respondent No. 2 from 
time to time, that respondent No. 1 and Atre believed what was stated in the 
said paper to be false or did not believe it to be true, that the said publications 
were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the election of respon 
dent No. 2 and that the result of the election in so far as it concerned respondent 
No. 1, has been materially affected by reason of the said publications. On behalf 
of respondent No. 1 the correctness of each one of the above submissions and 
contentions is denied . 


It is , therefore , necessary to consider what constitutes " Agency as that term 
is understood in the election law . Explanation ( 1 ) to section 123 of the Act con 
tains in interpretation of the expression " agent" . It savs : In this section the 
expression " agent" includes an election agent, a polling agent and any person who 
is held to have acted as an agent in connection with the election with the con 
sent of the candidate ." This is an inclusive definition and not an exhaustive ore. 
The question whether or not Atre was the agent of respondent No. 1 - the return 
ed candidate must , therefore, be determined with reference to the use of the 
word " agent" as understood in the Law of Elections all these days. It is pointed 
on in Halsbury s Laws of England , Vol. 14 ( 3rd Edn .) Art 300 at p . 169: -- - 


" A candidate s liability to have his election avoided under the doctrines of 

election agency is distinct from , and wider than , his liability under 
the criminal or civil law of agency. Once the agency is established 
a candidate is llable to have his election avoided for corrupt or il 
legal practicos committed by his agents even though the art was not 
authorised by the candidate or was expressly forbidden . The reason 
for this stringent law is that candidates put forward agents to act 
for them ; and it it were permitted that these agents should play 
foul, and that the candidate should have all the benefit of their foul 
play without being responsible for it in the way of losing his seat, 
great mischief would arise ." 


The question what would be sufficient evidence to constitute one person the 
Agent of another under the Election Law is , as it has been pointed out again and 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5147 

= = - - - - - - - -- - . . . . : - . . - - - - - - - 
again , a question more of fact than of law . In the case of Borough of Eveshan 
( 1881) III O M . & H . 192 Grove J . said : 
" I think it highly desirable that in election inquiries the law of principal 

and agent should be, as it is, rather one of facts than of distinct 
rules; for this reason , that when the judges have laid down a rule 
as to what onştitutes agency , in the next election petition which they 
· try they And that this rule has been evaded ; therefore, it must 
always remain a mixed question of law and fact, though very much 

a question of faci, as to what constitutes agency " . 
It is pointed out more than once that a precise definition of " agency " under 
the election law is either possible or should be attempted . In the case of 
Borough of Bridgewater, ( 1870 ) I – O . M , & H , 112 , Blackburn J. observed : 
" It has never yet been distinctly and precisely defined what degree of 

evidence is required to establish such a relation between the sit 
ting member and the person guilty of corruption , as should cons 
titute agency . I do not pretend to be able to define it, certalnly ; no 
one yet has been able to go further than to say , as to some cases , 
enough has been established ; as to other , enough has not been 
established to vacate the seat; this case is on the right side of 
the line, that is on the wrong ; but the line itself has never yet 
been definitely drawn , and I profess myself unable accurately to 

draw it ." 
In the Windsor s case ( 1870 ) 1- O . M . & H , P . 1, Willes J. said : 
" Authority to canvass — and I purposely used the word "authority and 

not employment because I meant the observation to apply to 
persons authorised to canvass, whether paid or not for their ser 
vices — would , in my opinion , constitute an agent and that autho 
rity for the general management of an election would involve 

authority to canvass , " 
However , any supporter of a candidate who chooses to ask others for their 
votes and to make speeches in his favour, can not force himself upon the can 
didate ag an agent per O Brien J . in the Londondorry Case - (1870 ) ] I - O M . 
& H 274 at p . 278 . Ag to the question of agency , says Blackburn J . in the 
Bewdley Case ( 1870 ) I- O . M . & H , P . 16 at p . 17 : 
" No one can lay down a precise rule as to what would constitute evl 

dence of being an agent. Every instance in which it is shown that, 
either with the knowledge of the member or candidate himself, 
or to the knowledge of his agents who had employment from him . 
a person acts at all in furthering the election for him , in trying to 
get votes for him , is evidence tending to show that the person so 
acting was authorised to act as his agent. It is by no means essen 
tial that it should be shown that a person so employed , in order to 
be an agent for the purpose , is paid in the slightest degree or is in 

the nature of being a paid person ." 
The same learned Judge in the Taunton Case (1870) -- I - O & M . H . 181 / 1 
laid down the rule thus : 

" The rule of law has long been established that in parliamentary 

matters we are not to consider the strict rule of common law agency 
generally established to this extent that a person is responsible for 
his agent in all that he does within the scope of his authority, but 
is not responsible for anything that he does beyond the scope of 
his authority . . . . . . But in parliamentary election law it has long been 
established that where a person has employed an agent for the 
purpose of procuring his election , he , the candidate , is responsible 
for the act of that agent in committing corruption , though he him 
self not only did not intend it or authorise it , but even bona fide 

did his best to hinder it ." 
A little later he said : 
" I think all one can do is this, to say that wherever a person is in any 

way allowed by a candidate or has the candidate s sanction to try 
to carry on his election and to act for him , that is some evidence 

to show that he is his agent." 
In the Taunton Case ( 1875 ) 11 - O M . H . 66 at p . 73, Grove J. laid down 
the law of agency thus: 
" The law of agency , as applied to election petitions, has been differently 

expressed by different learned Judges , some of whom he likened 


518 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II. – 

— - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - - -- --- 
it to the relation of master and servant, and another to the em 
ployer of persons to run a race for him ; but no exact definition , 
meeting all cases , has, as far as I am aware, been given , TWO 
learned Judges the late Mr. Justice Willes and Mr. Justice Black 
burn - have pointed out the dificulties of arriving at one. All 
agree that the relation is not the Common law one of principle 
And agent, but that the candidate may be responsible for the acts 
of one acting on his behalf, though the acts be beyond the scope 
of the authority given , or, indeed , in violation of express injunc 
tion . So far ag regards the present case , I am of opinion that, to 
establish agency for which the candidate would be responsible , 
he must be proved by himself or by his authorised agent to have 
employed the persons whose conduct is impugned to act on his 
behalf , or to have to some extent put himself in their hands, or 
to have made common cause with them for the purpose of promot 
ing his election . . . . . .Mere non - interforence with persons who , 
feeling interested in the success of the candidate . may act in sup 
port of his canvass , is not sufficient in my judgment, to saddle 
The candidate with any unlawful acts of theirs of which the tri 
ibunal is satisfied he or his authorised agent is ignorant." 


· The same learned Judge said in the Wakefield Case ( 1875 ) — II O M . & H . 
00 at p . 103 : 
" A candidate is responsible generally , you may say, for the dceds of 

those who to his knowledge for the purpose of promoting his elec 
tion canvass and do such other acts as may tend to promote his 
election , provided that the candidate or his authorised agents have 
reasonable knowledge that those persons are go acting with that 

object ." 
These principles of English Law about the doctrine of agency are generally 
applied in India , but while following these principles, the provisions of the 
statute as they existed today ought not to be overlooked . Prior to the amend 
ment of the Act by the Central Act 27 of 1956 the definition of the word 
* agent” was found in clause ( a ) of section 79 of the Act as follows: 
" Agent" includes an election agent, a polling agent and a counting agent 

and any person who , on the trial of an election petition or of an 
offence with respect to any election is held to have acted as an 
agent in oonnection with the election with the knowledge or con 

sent of the candidate ." 
Under this definition either knowledge or consent of the candidate is suff 
cient. There is some difference in the degree between mere knowledge of the 
candidate and his consent. By the Central Act No. 27 of 1966 the definition of 
the word given in cl. ( 2 ) of section 79 was deleted and it was defined as con 
tained in Explanation ( 1 ) of s . 123 as hereinabove set out. It will be apparent 
from this definition that the word " knowledge ” is deleted from the definition . 
Under the present law , " consent" is necessary in all cases for a person acting 
in connection with an election for a candidate to be held to be candidate s 
agent and " knowledge" alone will not sumce. Of course , " Knowledge" with 
other circumstances, such as raising no objection on availing of the acts , may 
raise an inference of consent but it must amount to consent. 

in Sudhir Laxman Bendre v . S . A . Dange & O - 5 , — ( 1959 ) XVII. Election 
Law Reports 373 , — AIR 1960 Bombay 249 , the Division Bench of this Court 
pointed out: Though the law of agency as applied to election petitions has 
been differently expressed by different Judges, all agree that the relation is 
not the common law one of principle and agent, but the candidate may be 
responsible for the acts of a person acting on his behalt, though such acts arc 
beyond the scope of the authority given , or indecd in violation of express 
injunction . 

The necessity of the consent of a candidate for constitution of agency is 
emphasised in the case of Biswanath v . Haralal Da3 A . I. R . 1958 Assam 97 . It 
says that : In order to constitute the agency under s . 123 it is essential that a 
person must be proved to have acted as an agent is connection , with the 
election with the consent of the candidate . Reading s . 100 and s . 123 together , 
1t will appear that if a person acts in connection with election as an agent 
with the consent of the candidate, he will be deemed to be an agent for the 
purposes of s . 123 . The result will be that any publication done by such a 
person will constitute a corrupt practice . But before the petitioner could get 
any relief under Sec. 100 , he is not only to prove that a corrupt practice has 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : ) EMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5149 

- - - - - - - - - - 
been committed by any person ; but it has been done with the consent of the 
returned candidate . 

The case of Maganlal Bagdi v . H . V . Kamath AIR 1960 M . P . 362 , illustrate 
how agency understood under the Election Law is cstablished , by joint pro 
pagända for the election . It says thnt where the clection campaign , publicity 
and propaganda of a party s candidates for election to the State Assembly as 
well as to the House of the People are conducted conjointly , the Assembly 
candidates are in fact and law the agent of the candidates for the House of 
the People and vice - versa , within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act . 

The contention on behalf of the Petitioner is that a number of factors exists 
in the present case which go to show that Acharya Atre is the agent of res 
pondent No , 1 as that term is understood under the election law ; Admittedly 
respondent No. 1 is a prominent member of the Samyukta Socialist Party 
(he . einafter referred to as the " SSP " ) , that SSP is a constituent unit of 
Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti (hereinafter referred to as the " SMS" ) that 
SIMS was formed inter alia with a view to fight unitedly the Congress at the 
Election ; that the candidature of responderit No. 1 from Bombay South Parlia 
mentary Constituency was endorsed by SMS; that Atre wag a prominent leader 
of SMS and the President of the Bombay Unit of the SMS ; that Atre him 
self was a candidate for Parliament from some other constituency in Bombay , 
that both respondent No. 1 and Atre mutually addressed election meetings in 
each other s constituencies; that Atre through the columns of his newspaper 
Maratha carried on vigorous and intensive propaganda for election of candi 
dates sponsored and /or supported by SMS including respondent No. 1 ; that 
after the result of election was announced , respondent No. 1 publicly as well 
as privately thanked Atre and his newspaper Maratha for having taken great 
pains for his success at the election . It is said that Atrę had made common 
cause with respondent No. 1 for promoting his election , that to the knowledge 
of respondent No. 1 and for the purpose of promoting his election . Atre 
canvassed and did various things as tended to promote the election of res 
pondent No. 1 and that respondent No. 1 had reasonable knowledge that Atre 
was so acting with that object. It is necessary to consider the various factors 
and circumstances that are relied upon as evidence of agency and see whether 
they establish that Atre is the agent of respondent No. 1 as that term is under 
stood under the election law . 

It is not disputed that respondent No. 1 belonged to S . Ş .P , and that his 
candidature was sponsored by S . S . P . In fact, it is the case of the petitioner 
in para 2E of the petition that respondent No. 1 c - tested the election from 
Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency on the SSP ticket. The evidence of 
respondent No . 1 that he was selected as a candidate for parliamentary seat by 
the SSP and that he contested on the ticket of SSP with its symbol the " tree " 
has not been challenged. The SSP was at the relevant time the constituent unit 
of the SMS. 

There is some controversy between the parties in relation to the object 
with which the SMS was formed . It is the case of the petitioner that the 
united fight at the coming election in the year, 1967 was one of the main 
objectives for the formation of the SMS right from its inception . The case 
of respondent No. 1 on the other hand , is that the SMS was formed only for 
uniting the border areas of Belgaum and Karwar with the cxisting State of 
Maharashtra , Reference can be had to the diverse factors relied upon by 
either side to substantiate their respective contentions, 

There is clear evidence that in the carlier elections in the year 1967 and 
in the year 1962 — SSP was not a constituent unit of the Samyukta Maharashtra 
Samiti . Respondent No. 1 in his evidence says that in the year 1957 election . 
Socialist Party was a unit of Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti but on the eve of 
the election , the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti came out with a programme 
of its Government if it was elected to power . At that stage, the Socialist Party 
came out of Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti because it did not want its own 
programme to be diluted . According to respondent No. 1 , in 1957 Samyukta 
Maharashtra Samiti was more than a mere alliance and was a party for the 
purpose of the election and had a programme, The same thing continued up 
to the year 1962. Even then the Samyukta Maharashtra Samiti continued to 
be a party with the programme of its own . In the 1962 election , the Socialist 
Party did not join the Samiti. In 1967 election , with a view to throw out the 
Congress from power , the Socialist Party wanted to depart from its earlier 
policy and was prepared to enter into the aliance with any of the parties. 

Reliance was placed on behalf of the petitioner upon a statement alleged 
to be made by Mr. Madhu Limaye , a report of which appears in the issue of 


5150 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA : 5, 1890 (PART II — 
- - = = 

.. - -- - - 

- 

-- - - - - - 
Maratha dated April 11, 1966 ( Ex . X - 66 ) . This extract contains a report of 
the speech purported to be made by Mr. Madhu Limaye at Shivtirth . The report 
shows that Mr. Madhu Limaye is alleged to have stated that in the coming 
election opposition parties should unite and should have the allocation of seats 
and thus should deintoxicate the ruling Congress Party of their two - third 
majority ; that the Congress is having 23 majority in this country and that. 
majority intoxicated the Congress so much that this party was away from 
even ordinary humanism ; that the only work left for the opposition parties was 
to reduce this majority ; that, therefore, all the opposition parties, must unite 
and should build up a great unity to reduce the Congress majority . The fact. 
that such a speech was made by Mr. Madhu Limaye is not independently proved 
except by mere production of the issue of Maratha , wherein this report is to 
be found . The contents of the report are not proved by mere production of the 
report . By mere production of Ex , X - 66 , it is not possible to conclude that Mr, 
Madhu Limaye made a speech of the type reported therein . 

Ex , X -67 is also a report of the speech reported to be made by Acharya 
Atre in the month of April 1966 while addressing pro -Maharashtra workers at . 
Dadar. This report shows that Acharya Atre at this meeting stated that all 
the opposition parties should forget their differences , that there shall be only 
one opposition candidate against the Congress candidate , that he was going 
to request all the opposition parties in Maharashtra to fight the forthcoming 
elections with the only determination of defeating the Congress candidate by 
ensuring that votes are not divided in the opposition parties. At this meeting , 
Acharya Atre declared the formation of SMS and said that a conference of 
all the opposition parties should be convened in Bombay in next month . The 
report further shows that Acharya Atre said that the Congress Government 
cut into pieces the border areas while conceding Maharashtra State ; that they 
must make great efforts in the forthcoming general election for creating 
Sampoorna Maharashtra and that Samiti is being inaugurated for this purpose 
only . That such a news item appeared in Acharya Atre s newspaper Maratha 
cannot be disputed and may be regarded an authentic report of what Acharya 
Atre must have said while addressing the pro-Maharashtra workers . 

On May 26 , 1966 a meeting of the various leaders of the opposition parties 
was held in the Office of Shiv Shakti-- the place where Maratha is published 
and where Atre resides - , that about 200 persons representing various consti 
tuent parties, labour organisations and other organisations were present; at 
this meeting a decision to form SMS was arrived at by those present therein . 
A report of what transpired at this meeting is published in the issue of Kegari 
dated May 27, 1966 and the issue of Maratha of the same date . Ex . 182 is the 
report in Kesari and Ex , 183 is the report of the proceedings of this meeting in 
Maratha . These reports show that amongst the various leaders , respondent 
No. 1 was one of the leaders present at this meeting and they also show the 
object with which the SMS was formed . Ex . 182 — the report in Kesari shows 
that it had been decided by the opposition leaders to continue the fight for 
the inclusion of Marathi speaking areas of Mysore in Maharashtra and that for 
this purpose Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti had been formed . This meeting 
also appointed in ad hoc committee to start the work of SMS in Bombay . 
Amongst the persons, who were the members of the ad hoc committee were 
Mr. S . M . Joshi the President of the SSP and Acharya Atre . Ex . 183 is 
rather a more detailed report of the proceedings of this meeting. The object 
with which SMS was formed is reported even in Maratha in the same manner 
as it is also reported in Kesari Ex . 182 Ex , 183 inter alia contains a report that 
by unanimous votes of leaders of leading opposition parties at the meeting at 
Shiv Shakti office of Daily Maratha, a historic decision was taken to form 
the SMS in order to support and lead the mammoth and Maharashtra -wida 
agitation to merge Marathi border areas with Maharashtra ; that before the 
next general elections these border areas should be merged with Maharashtra ; 
that the meeting took unanimous decision that the one man commission that was 
appointed to go into the question of border areas was appointed with a view 
of simply deceiving the people cf Maharashtra and the border area in the 
ensuing general elections and that border area would not get justics without 
united struggle . These reports Exs. 182 and 183 clearly point out the object 
of formation of SMS. At the time when it was formed , the sole objective 
wag to carry forward the struggle of merger of border areas of Belgaum and 
Karwar into the existing State of Maharashtra , The announcement regarding 
the formation of SMS was published in the issue of Maratha dated May 27 , 
1966 (Ex. 186 ) and it also shows that leaders of the opposition parties decided 
to organise a united Maharashtrawide struggle and to form SMS to unite , 
widen and strengthen the agitation of the Marathi People on the border prob 
lem . That this is the sole object of formation of SMS is also clear from a box 


SEÇ. 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


515 


item and the photos Ex. 51 published in the issue of Maratha dated May , 27 
1966 . This photo shows that amongst persons who participated in this decisiot 
of formation of SMS were amongst other respondent No, 1 and Acharya Atre 
In none of these reports ( Exs. 182 , 183 or 186 ) is there a reference to be found 
to the decision of the opposition leaders that one of the object of the forma 
tion of SMS was to have a united fight against the Congress at the election 
Acharya Atre however, seems to be keen to utilise this factor of formation o : 
SMS for a united fight at the election and he gave expression to such views ir 
the editorial that he published in the issue of Maratha, dated May 27, 1966 
That editorial is Ex. 54. This editorial inter alia states that all opposition 
parties in Maharashtra have come together and have blown the battle hori. 
unanimously from the rampart of Shiva Shakti of formation of SMS tc 
destroy the Congress in the forthcoming elections. Such a statement or. 
behalf of Atre in the editorial is not supported by the reports of the meetin , 
published in the Exhs. 182 - 183 and 186 . In fact, respondent No . 1 when he 
was shown this editorial Ex . X - 54 stated that it is incorrect. He said that to his 
knowledge no such decision was taken in the meeting held at Shiva Shakti 
on May 26 , 1966 . At the best, this statement merely expresses the persona 
views of Acharya Atre . On May 29, 1966 a meeting was held at Shivaji Par } 
to announce the formation of SMS. Ex . 53 is a report of what happened .. 
this meeting. The heading of this report shows that SMS has blown the battle 
horn for the Boundary Battle . Dange and S . M . Joshi at the time of breakin 
the coconut said that the area on the boundary of Belgaum -Karwar must be 
amalgamated in Maharashtra and justice should be given to the people 
in the border areas; that if this justice was not given then the fight 
should be as herce as the one fought for Samyukta Maharashtra in such a way 
that Congress is destroyed from Maharashtra ; that SMS had been formed to fight 
the forthcoming battle fiercely and for this purpose five Pandavas had come to 
gether . The words " Ave Pandavas" in this report refer to the five of the constitu 
ent parties that would go to form SMS . Respondent No. 1 was present at this 
metting, but Acharya Atre could not remain present as he met with an accident, 
In the issue of Maratha dated May 30 , 1966 ( Part of Ex . 53 ) the editorial is pub 
lished wherein it is inter alia stated that if the Congress leaders in power at the 
Centre do not have the wisdom to include the Marathi border areas in Maharashtra 
before the next general elections, then the Sampoorna Maharashtra Samiti hac 
sworn to destroy the Congress in the next general elections ; that they may hay 
differences of opinion on several other questions but they were of one mind on the 
question of Marathi border areas, hence they were determined to put up only one 
candidate against the Congress in each constituency in the general elections. Thi: 
editorial no doubt refers to the personal view of Atre , If regard be had to the 
published reports of the proceedings of the meetings of the various parties and 
its leaders, it is undoubtedly clear that the parties and their leaders that met to 
gether on May 26 , 1966 for formation of SMS did not apply their mind at that 
stage to the question of election . Their object of formation of SMS was to unite 
the border areas with the State of Maharashtra . However , both before as well as 
after the formation of SMS, Acharya Atre personally intended to utilise the for . . 
mation of SMS for fighting election against Congress if the objective of merger 
of border areas with Maharashtra was not achieved . There are also some reports 
of meetings , press conference and of statements, which also go to show that : 
that stage SMS had not applied its mind to the question of elections. A meeting 
was held on June 19 , 1966 at Shiv Shakti to carry on the struggle of merger of 
border area . Respondent No . 1 was present at this meeting. The report of this 
meeting was published in the issue of Maratha dated June 20 , 1966 and it is Ex . 
X - 91. According to respondent No. 1 this is the correct report of what transpired 
at this meeting. Thosc who met at this meeting took the view that one man 
commission may be appointed for Belgaum -Karwar but it was the opinion of all 
those who were present that this was again for killing time. The meeting decid 
ed to arrange conference at Poona in the middle of June to decide the programme 
of the border agitation and for this conference about five thousand representatives 
from Bombay would remain present; that in this conference the office bearers of 
the SMS wou d be elected and a scheme would be decided to appoint committees 
at various places. At this meeting, a temporary committee wag formed to carry 
out the work of SMS at Bombay . 


On June 29 , 1966 at a press interview at Akola where he had been in connec 
tion with the question of recognition of S . T . Mazdoor Sabha, respondent No. 1 
said that as far as SSP was concerned , they were prepared to have alliance with 
any party and they were having talks with other party leaders in that connection . 
He also said that so long as on the platform of SMS, Communist Party , Samyukta : 


5152 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II 
. S . = = - - 

— - - -- = - = - . . 
Socialist Party , Peasants Workers Party and Hindu Mahasabha had come to 
gether and it all these parties were united , they would be able to meet the chal 
lenge of the Congress effectively . This statement shows that the idea of forming 
an alliance was merely in contemplation in 0 . der to present United Front against 
the Congress at the Election . Even a report of a statement made by Atre publi 
shed in Maratha dated August 8 , 1966 ( Ex . X -43) also indicated the same thing . 
This report shows that if the SMS decided to contest the forthcoming general 
election and if the constituents of the Samiti nominated candidate , unanimously 
for the said clections , there was no reason for anybody to doubt at that Acharya 
Atre personally in the Daily Maratha would support only those candidates spon 
sored by SMS. The evidence of respondent No. 1 shows why such a statement 
came to be made by Acharya Atre. On an earlier Occasion , Acharya Atre had an 
nounced his decision to support Dr. Mandlik a member of the PSP from the Khet 
Wadi Constituency . The PSP was not a constituent unit of the SMS. By this state 
ment published in Ex . X -43 Atre wanted to clarify his position in casę SMS de 
cided to contest the forthcoming general elections. These exhibits indicate that 
the SSP was trying to have an electoral alliance with the other political parties , 
whether they were constitucnt units of SMS Unit or not ? It is also clear from the 
statement of Acharya Atre published in Maratha Ex . X - 43 that SMS as such 
by this time did not consider the question of fighting the elections unitedly . 


A little later , the SMS appeared to have taken a decision to participate in the 
forthcoming elections to be held in 1967. There is however, no direct evidence 
about this decision at the initial stage except through the report published in the 
newspapers . No attempt, however, is made on behalf of the petitioner to prove 
thc contents of most of these reports , Ex . X - 95 a report in the issue of Maratha 
dated the September 11, 1966 states that the leaders of the SMS had taken a dc 
cision to contest all the Lok Sabha and Assembly seats from Maharashtra in the 
forthcoming election that at various places the workers and the local loaders 
have agreed to contest the election on Samiti tickets ; that the Samiti leaders have 
decided to contest 300 Assembly seats and 40 Lok Sabha seats from Maharashtra , 
No attempt is , however , made to prove the truth of the statement published in this 
report. This report was shown to respondent No. 1 and he says that he was not 
aware of such a report nor of the facts thercin stated . After reading this report he 
stated that there were a number of basic inaccuracies therein , 


It appears that a meeting of the leaders of SMS was held at Poona and the 
report of the proceedings of this meeting was published in the issue of Maratha 
dated September 20, 1966 ( EX , X - 92 ) . The report contains the heading “ Congress 
shall be completely defeated in the forthcoming election ." The report says that 
the SMS at its meeting held at Poona for two days expressed its determination to 
defcat the Congress totally in the forthcoming elections and to cxpand the area 
of its agitation that in the resolution regarding the elections it was stated that 
1.boge party candidates or independent who would fight the clections by giving 
main importance to the border problem between Maharashtra and Mysore would 
be supported by the Samiti ; that the Samiti had decided to organise a proper ma 
chinery in order to see that the votes against the Congress are not divided and 
to make c ectoral understanding bctween various parties and the independent 
candidates and that the local committees were directed to awake people in order 
- to see that the agitation met with a complete success and that the Congress is 
more and more defeated . Reference is also made in this report to the programme 
of the SMS . This report states that this machinery would do the work of cxplain 
ing the pcople that the Samiti would give importance to control the price spiral , 
supply of food , eradication of unemployment, distribution of land and other 
public domands relating to democracy and freedom . There is no independent evi 
dence to prove that this report is an inaccurate report of the proceedings of the 
mccting that took place. It was shown to respondent No. 1 and ho merely said 
that he was not present at this meating and he could not say whether it was cor 
rect or not. 


In the issue of Maratha dated November 3 , 1966 a notice under the nur 
ported signature of Appa Pendso , Executive President of the Bombay City SMS 
was published for the information of the aspiring candidates of the Samiti. That 
notice is Ex . K - 99. This notice deals with the manner of making applications 
by candidates who sought the suport of the SMS at the elnction . This notine 
points out that the jurisdiction of the Bombay Omce of the SMS was limited and 
confined to the Bombay City only that the candidates desiring to contest, only from 
the Bombay City should forward their applications to the Bombay City Samiti 


- 


. - . 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5153 

= = = 

------- - - - - - - - - - 
and that thereafter such applications wou d be sent to the Central Committee for 
consideration ; the aspirants from outside Bombay City should send their appli 
cations to General Secretary . SMS, Kesari Omce Poona No. 2 ; that the appli 
cations of partywise candidates would be considered in the executive committee 
meeting to be held on the 8th , 9th , 101h and those of independent candidates 
would be considered after the applications on the candidates of the constituent 
parties were considered . The fact that such a notice is published cannot be 
disputed but there is no direct evidence to show that this notice was published . 
as a result of a decision taken by the Bombay Unit of the SMS, 


It apears as shown by the report in the issue oi Maratha dated November 9 , 
1966 (part of Ex . 177 ) that a session of the constituent parties of the SMS met in 
the Office of Kesari to finalise the names and the constituencies of its candidates 
in the forthcoming general e cctions. There is no dirocit evidence to show that 
this report is a correct report . A couple of days thereafter on November 11 , 1966 
a report (Ex, X - 93 ) is published in the issue ot Kesari suggesting that there was 
a general unanimity on the question of candidates and seats . This report states . 
that the macting of the representatives of the constituent parties of the SMS 
which was in session for two days in the office of Kesari was adjourned to afford 
more time for coming to an understanding on the allocation of seats ; that the 
meeting of the represented partics would be held again on the 16th and 17th of 
November and that is in that meeting distribution of seats party -wise would be 
finalised . The report further indicates that the constituent parties had taken un 
animous decision regarding allocation of seats of Vidhan Sabha in the districts of 
Sangli, Kolaba, Satara , Kolhapur, Sholapur , Jalgaon , Dhulia and Nagar ; that the 
decision for the allocation of scats for the remaining districts of West Maha . . 
rashtra , namely , Poona , Thana , Nasik and Ratnagiri and Greater Bombay and 
Marathwada would b taken in the mecting to be held on 16th and 17th of Nov 
ember of the Central Working Committee and that meeting would finalise the 
allocation of seats and to prepare the outline of the election propaganda, When 
the attention of respondent No . I was drawn to this report he merely said that 
he was not aware of it. It is rather surprising that a leader of the standing of 
respondent No. 1 should plcad ignorance about the proceeding of the important 
meeting of the SMS in the matter of selecting candidates in the constituencies. It 
is , however , clearly established that on November 16 , 1966 a meeting was held 
at Shiv Shakti in Bombay of the members of the Bombay branch of the SMS to 
consider thu sclection of candidates for the Lok Sabha and the Legislative 
Assembly from Bomba ; Acharya Atre presided over this meeting and respon 
dent No. 1 was present there. The proceedings of this meeting are reported in 
the issue of Maratha dated November 16 , 1966 (Ex. X - 94 ) . At this meeting a 
unanimous decision was taken for selection of candidates for two seats out of 
five seats of the Lok Sabha in Greater Bombay and for candidates for 10 seats out 
of 28 seats in the Legislative Assembly . It further points out that the report of 
this meeting would be placed for consideration of the Central Maharashtra Samiti 
at its meeting to be held at Poona on November 17 and a final decision would be 
taken regarding all these candidates . In the issue of Maratha dated December 
11, 1966 (part of Ex , 177 ) was published a list announcing Samiti s threc Lok 
Sabha and 21 Vidhan Sabha candidates . Amongst the candidates who are men 
tioned , it is shown that respondent No. 1 is a candidate from Bombay South Par . 
liamentary Constituency for Lok Sabha and that Acharya Atrc is the candidate 
for Lok Sabha from Bombay Central Parliamentary Constituency . In the issue 
of Maratha dated December 25 , 1966 ( Part of Ex. 177 ) is published information 
stating that on that day the SMS would inaugurato its election propaganda by 
breaking the coconut at a meeting to be held at Shivaji Park . Accordingly the 
SMS inaugurated its election campaign in Bombay by breaking the coconut at a 
mceting held at Shivaji Park . Acharya Atre presided over the mecting and res 
pondent No. 1 was present there. A photo of such inauguration of the campaign 
was published as a news item ( Ex , X - 42 ) in the issue of Maratha dated Decem 
ber 26 , 1966 . Thus, from the proved documents it is at least established that 
sometime prior to November 16 1966, the SMS, decided to participate in the 
forthcoming election , that the Bombay Unit of the SMS met under the chair 
manship of Acharya Atre , selected candidates for Parliament and Legislative 
Assembly seats from Bombay, that the candidature of respondent No. 1 as a 
candidate from Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency was endorsed by the 
Bombay Unit of the SMS , that, the SMS inaugurated its election campaign in 
Bombay on December 25, 1966 at a mceting held under the chairmanship of 
Acharya Atre and in the presence of respondent No. 1 . This shows that in any 
event at the relcvant time, a clear decision was taken by the SMS to participate 
In the election with a view to present the United Front agaipst the Congress : 
at the clection . 


. . 


K151 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II — 

- . .- . - - - - - - -. . . -. . - . - - . - - 
It is also clear from the cvidence on record that the office of the Bombay Unit 
of the SMS was at Shiv Shakti, the place where Maratha was published and 
Acharya Atre used to reside, that the Bombay Uunit of the SMS used the tele 
phone of the newspaper Maratha at Shiv - Shakti, that these facilities were 
continued even after the SMS decided to participate in the election , that Acharya 
Atre was from the inception the President and of the Bombay Unit of the SMS 
and continued to be such President when the SMS decided to participate in the 
election , 

The point arises for consideration is whether the SMS adopted any political 
programme for Aghting the elections. Reliance is placed upon the publication of 
16 points programme in the issue of Marathi dated February 11 , 1967 (Ex . X -61) 
and the issue of Maratha dated February 20), 1967 ( Ex , 185 ) . This 16 points pro 
gramme appears to be a charter of demands of the SMS . It was on the basis of 
this programme that the SMS decided to participate in the elections. With regard 
to this programme, respondent No. 1 said that in fact he was not aware of this 
programme of the Samiti. However , he has admitted that most of the 16 points 
he emphasised in the course of his election campaign , He wanted to suggest that 
at no meeting of the SMS it applied its mind to its election manifesto or pro 
gramme. Respondent No. 1 said to the best of his knowledge , Samiti had never 
any occasion to discuss unitedly its main objective on any issue except the border 
areas . But that does not appear to be correct. In the issue of Kesari dated 
Novembe : 11, 1966 ( Ex . X - 93 ) it is inter alia reported that at its meeting to buy 
held on 16th and 17th November , the Central Working Committee of the Samit 
would prepare the out line of the election propaganda . A similar piece of infol 
mation appears to have been reported in the issue of Maratha dated December 
9 , 1966 (Part of Ex . 177 ) whercin information about the various meetings of the 
SMS is published . This report inter alia states that the meeting of the Central 
body of the SMS would be held on December 15 , 1966 in the Office of Kesari and 
would be continued on 16th . Amongst the items of the Agenda of the mecting . 
the first item is to decide about the minimum programme with a view to carry 
on campaign for the election . It may be that respondent No . 1 may not be pre 
sent at the meeting when such minimum programme was considered , but as sug 
gested by these reports (Ex . X - 93 and 177 ) at one of its meetings, the SMS must 
have considered its minimum programme to be presented to the electorate for 
fighting the election . The report of the meeting published in Ex . X - 92 also sup 
ports the same conclusion . It shows that this machinery would do the work of 
explaining the people that the Samiti will give importance to control the price 
spiral, supply of food eradication of unemployment distribution of land and 
other public demands relating to democracy and freedom . 

The SMS has from time to time issued public appeals for collection of funds. 
* This fact is sought to be proved by the production of the various issues of Mo 
ratha wherein such appea s for funds were published . In the issue of Maratha 
dated August 9 , 1966 , an appeal for funds ( Ex . X -97) was published . By this 
notice , an important directive for collection of funds was issued . This notice was 
undoubtedly published before the SMS decided to participate in the election . But 
even after the SMS decided to participate in the election , similar appeals for 
funds were issued and they are published in the issues of Maratha from time 
to time. Reference can be had to the appeals Exs. X - 8 and X - 24. These appeals 
Are published in the issue of Maratha dated December 16 , 24 and 28 and ther 
show that Acharya Atre needed election fund of Rs. 5 lacs to defeat the Congress 
in the forthcoming elections. In response to such appeals , some funds were col 
lected , but the amount so collected did not appear to be very large, A report 
* Ex . X - 40 in the issue of Maratha dated January 28 , 1967 stated that by about 
January 25 , 1967 a meagre sum of Rs. 8783 - 75 was collected . I am not concerned 
whether this figure is a correct figure or not. What I an prim - ! ly concerned 
with is that a public appeal for raising an election fund for the SMS was made 
and some contributions thereto were received from time to time. There is . how 
eyer , no evidence on record that respondent No. 1 has contributed any amount 
to this fund or has recelved any direct help from this fund . It is , however , quite 
possible that this fund, meagre as it is , must have been utilised for the election 
campaign carried on by the SMS for the condidates supported by it and for its 
other activities . 

The evidence of respondent No . 1 also shows the nature of the work that 
was done by the SMS in the matter of election . The SMS endorsed the candl 
dature of candidates sponsored by the parties which were its constituents and of 
independent candidates who did or did not subscribe to its views, that it 
brought about an adjustment in the candidature of persons supported by it to 
avoid inter se conflict and to prevent division of votes of electors sympathizing 


Sec. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 23 , 1890 


5155 


with the SMS, At the suggestion of the SMS, Mlrajkar, a candidate of the Com 
munist Party (Marxist ) withdrew his candidature and extended the support to 
Krishna Menon , the independent candidate. So Aslo Mr. Gighe, a candidates 
sponsored by the SSP withdrew his candidature for the Assembly Seat from 
the Mahim Constituency in order to support one Bhave who was the candidate 
sponsored by the Samiti, A report was published in the issue of Maratha dated 
October 25, 1966 (Ex , X - 98 ) which states that the Working Committee of the SMS 
has issued an appeal for unity to all constitucnt parties and non - party individuals 
for the purpose of avoiding the division of peoples votes to ensure people s clear 
verdict on the future of border areas and defeat the Congress at the ensuing 
general elections. As shown by the report Ex, X - 99, the Samiti invited applica 
tions from independent candidates . The Samiti also announced the names of 
the candidates which were sponsored by it. It inaugurated its election cam 
paign by a formal ceremony by holding a meeting at Shivaji Park and it carried 
on election propganda for the candidates sponsored by the SMS including resa 
pondent No. 1 . 

A controversy is raised at the trial to the effect that the SMS is not a political 
party as properly so callel, but is a mere front; that it has no constitution no 
membership no Election Symbol or tickets and no independent workers etc . It is 
linneoessa y to decide whether the SMS can be regarded as political party as that 
term may be properly understood , What I have to consider in the present case 
. is whether Atre is the agent of respondent No. 1 . To decide this issue , the ques 
tion whether the SMS is a poitical party or not is entirely irrelevent. 

It is then necessary to consider the part played by Atre personally and 
through his newspaper Maratha for the election campaign of candidates spon 
sored and supported by the SMS and for respondent No. 1 in particular, Prior 
to June 9 , 1966 , every issuc of Maratha on its front page carried the legend that 
. it was the victorious mouthpiece of Samyukta Maharashtra . From and after 

June 9 , 1966 , Maratha on its front page carried the legend that it was the official 
-organ or the mouthpioce of the SMS. Respondent No. 1 in his evidence stated 
that there is no resolution of any sort at any level at any time appointing Ma 
ratha as the Official organ or the mouthpiece of the SMS or accepting it as such . 
. It struck rather odd to him that Acharya Atre should have called this newspaper 
as the spokesman o the SMS, in the absence of a decision to so consider that 
newspaper . Whether there was a decision or not , the fact , however , remains 
that on and after June 9 , 1966 Maratha publicly made a claim by publishing the 
legend that it was the official organ or mouthpiece of the SMS. 
23rd January . 1968 . 

Respondent No. 1 in his testimony has admitted the nature of the work 
that was done by Acharya Atre and the daily Maratha to support the SMS can 
didates including himself at the election , Acharya Atre through the columns 
of Maratha carried on campaign for the success of the candidates endorsed by 
the SMS, but he was unable to say whether he took great pains or not . Bet 
ween December 1966 and February 21 , 1967, generally or almost every day . Ma 
ratha published the list of meetings of the candidates of the SMS including reg 
pondent No. 1 . This , however , did not include all the meetings that respondent 
No. 1 addressed . Sometimes it included several meetings which respondent No. 1 
did not address nor was scheduled to address , Maratha almost daily reported the 
speeches of the various Samiti candidates or their supporters including respon 
dent No. 1 at various election meetings and the reports of the various press 
interviews given by Samiți candidates or their supporters in " luding respondent 
No, 1 . Respondent No. 1 was not prepared to admit that during this period , 
Maratha carried on vigorous and incessant propaganda against the Congress in 
general and respondent No. 2 in particuar. During this period , Maratha car 
Tied on generally propaganda against the Congress in Maharashtra , During this 
period , every day Maratha carried on propaganda against the Congress and in 
favour of Samiti candidates and substantial part of the newspaper was devoted 
to this propaganda . As shown by the report ( Ex . X -65 ) in the issue of Maratha 
dated January 6 , 1967 , it published directions about the propaganda work to be 
carried on . As shown by the report ( Ex , X - 40 ) in the issue of Maratha dated 
January 28 , 1967, it published information about the various election meetings 
that were to be held on different days in different parts of the city in various 
constituenries . As shown by Ex , 177, it published news about various activities 
of the SMS througliout the period preceding the polling day and a large part 
of the newspaper was devoted to such election propaganda as And when it 
gathered momentum . On the eve of the election when the election propaganda 
came to an end , livratha published a report ( Ex , X - 103 ) in its issue dated Feb 
ruary 20, 1967 which states that after challenging respondent No. 2 on August 9 , 


5156 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ PART 11 — . 
- - -- - - . - : ... 

- - - - 
1966 , respondent No. 1 entered into election battle , that from that speech to the 
last speech , respondent No. 1 spoke in 222 meetings ; that in the morning , he 
used to have contact with the voters ; that at noon for two hours, he used to 
do some organisational work and that in the afternoon from 3 pm , to 2 a . m , at 
night daily , he used to make speeches ; that such was his continuous programme 
for the last about 2 - 12 months. According to respondent No. 1 , instead of 222 
meetings mentioned in this report , he addressed about 400 to 500 election meet 
ings between August 2 , 1966 and February 12 , 1967 and that his work for 
addressing meetings started at 5 p . m , instead of at 3 p . m . as reported in Ex . X - 103 .. 
The rest of that epcrt , according to respondent No. 2 , wag substantially correct. 
Respondent No. 1 has admitted in his evidence that as a politician , he was cons 
cious of the power of the press and the force of the written words . He, however , 
added that it did makc difference where the election meeting , is held , if he 
adaressed a meeting outside his constituency , he did not come in direct contact. 
with the electorate . However, the report of his speech might be read by the 
elector s in his constituency or might not be read . That depended upon the nature 
of the newspaper and its circulation . He did not entertain an expectation prior 
to December 1960 that any newspaper would support him in his election cam 
paign . He knew that Acharya Atre and Maratha were carrying on campaign of 
candidates endorsed by the SMS including himself . 

The evidence of respondent No. 1 also shows that he had social contact with 
Acharya Atre . According to him , Acharya Atre was a forceful orator and a 
very powerful Marathi writer . Initially he said that he had no social contact 
with him , but his subsequent evidence shows that as and when occasion aroşe , 
he used to visit him socially . He remembered to have gone and met Acharya 
Atre on or about June 19 , 1966 when he (Acharya Atre ) eturned home from 
the hospital. This was a social call after his return from the hospital. He was 
asked whether he had called on Atre at Shivashakti office on August 13 , 1966 
which was his birthday. He first said that he was not sure . After his attention 
was drawn to a report published in the issue of Maratha dated August 14 , 1966 , 
he said that he remembered that he must have called on him on August 13 , 1966 
at Shivashakti office as that was the place where he lives . · He did not recollect 
that in November 1966 , Acharya Atre celebrated the 10th anniversary of publi 
cation of Maratha or that he called on him on that day. He, however , remem 
bered that on January 23. 1967, he attended a meeting held in Shivashakti 
building to celebrate Netgji s Jayanti. At this meeting he gave a call to put 
up a statue of Netaji Subhash at Kala Ghoda. Initially he did not remember 
whether on February 24, 1967, he had been to the office at Shivashakti Or that 
he was received by Acharya Atre or that he was garlanded by him . After his 
attention was drawn to the report ( Ex , X -57 ) published in the issue of Maratha 
dated February 25 , 1967, he remembered that he went to the office of Maratha 
on February 24 , and that he was received and garlanded by Acharya Atre . He 
added that the purpose of this visit was to express his concern at Acharya Atre s 
defeat in the election rather than for thanking him . This evidence, therefore , 
shows that whenever an occasion arose, respondent No. 1 used to call socially 
on Acharya Atre , 

The evidence on record also shows that during the election period . respon 
dent No , i and Acharya Atre mutually canvassed for each other and addressed 
election meetings in the constituency of the other . On January 3 , 1967, respon 
dent No. 1 addressed an election meeting at Worli to support the candidature of 
Acharya Atre, Acharya Atre was present at this meeting, but he was not pre 
sent at the time when respondent No. 1 addressed it . A report of this mceling 
and the substance of the speeches made by respondent No. 1 and Acharya Atre 
are published in the issue of Maratha dated January 3 , 1967 ( Ex . X - 100 ) . On 
February 4 , 1967, an election mecting was organised by the SMS at Colaba to 
support the candidature of respondent No. 1 . This meeting was addressed both 
by respondent No. 1 and Acharya Atre and photos were taken and published 
showing them together on the same platform at this meeting. Acharya Atre also 
addressed a meeting on February 9 , 1967 at Giragaum , a part of the Bombay 
South Parliamentary constituency . Respondent No, I was not present at this 
meeting. However , Appa Pendso , an Assembly candidate of Janata Aghadi, a 
constituent unit of the SMS, was present thereat. This evidence shows that both 
respondent No. 1 and Acharya Atre mutually canvassed for each other in each 
other s constituency by addressing election meetings . 

Acharya Atre started a special feature in his daily Maratha called “ George 
Fernandes Election Front." In all, between December 3 . 1966 and February 2 , 
1967, nine articles under this hcading “ George Fernandes Ele tion Front” were 
published in Maratha on various dates . These articles are Ex . X - 9 to X - 14 . The 
object of publishing these articles obviously was to carry on election propaganda 
for respondent No . 1. Though the petitioner in his evidence wanted to suggest: 


$ ec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5157 


that these articles or at least the most of them were written by respondent No. 1 , 
Mr, Jethmalani at the stage of arguments conceded that there is no evidence on 
record to establish the assertion of the petitioner that these articles are written 
by respondent No. 1 . The fact , however, remains that such a special feature 
was started by Acharya Atre through his daily Maratha even before the SMS 
inaugurated its election campaign at Shivaji Park on December 25 , 1986 . This 
special feature was solely with the object of enhancing the election prospects of 
respondent No. 1. 


The Bombay Labour Union , of which respondent No. 1 is the President, pub 
lished a bulletin wherein an article written by Acharya Atre about what he 
called Sadashiv Sena together with his photo was published . Respondent No. I 
in his evidence has picaded ignorance about the publication of this bulletin , but 
that appears to be highly unnatural. Respondent No. I must have known about 
the publication of such a bulletin and the type of the news therein published . 

The last circumstance relied upon to support the contention of Acharya Atre 
being the agent of respondent No. 1 is that he ( respondent No. 1 ) privately and 
publicly thanked Acharya Atre for the great pains that he took for his election 
success. Initially respondent No . 1 did not admit, as shown earlier, that he 
thanked Acharya Atre. However, Maratha in its issue dated February 26 , 1967 
published a report ( Ex . X - 57) announ ing the visit of respondent No. 1 to 
Shivashakti and the celebration of his glorious victory by Acharya Atrc by gar 
landing him . After his attention was drawn to this report ( Ex , X -57) , respon 
dent No. 1 said that he was reminded that he went to the office of Maratha on 
February 24 and that he was received and garlanded by Acharya Atre. He 
aloo said that perhaps on that day he must have thanked Atre and Ma atha . AC 
cording to him , the purpose of his visit to Shivashakti was to 
express his concern at his defeat in the election rather than for thanking 
him . He said that he did not thank him profusely because he was not aware of 
anything particular that he did for him . This evidence of respondent No. 1 
shows that when he visited the Shivashakti off : e on February 24 , he thanked 
Acharya Atre and Maratha and was garlanded . 

Question then arises whether respondent No. 1 publicly thanked Acharya 
Atre and his daily Maratha for the assistance rendered and the propaganda 
arried on for his success at the election . The case of the petitioner is that such 
public thanks were expressed by respondent No. 1 for Acharya Atre and his news 
paper Maratha at a public meeting held at Chowpaty on February 26 , 1967 after 
the results of the election were announced . In connection with the proceedingo 
of this meeting , both the petitioner as well as Chandrakant Desai, the reporter 
of the Free Press Journal, have given evidence. According to the petitioner , 
he was present at this meeting . At this meeting respondent No . 1 publicly 
thanked Acharya Atre and Maratha for having moved heaven and earth for 
his success at the election . A photograph taken during the time of this meeting 
was also published in the issue of Maratha dated February 28, 1967. In his cross 
examination he gaid that he was at this meeting for about an hour and a half 
and he left this meeting after the speech of respondent No, I was over . He did 
not know who presided over this meeting . He said that S . M . Joshi, the President 
of the SSP , spoke at this meeting , but he did not remember how long he spoke 
and what he said at this meeting . According to him , he remembered that res 
pondent No. 1 publicly thanked Acharya Atre and newspaper Maratha for having 
noved heaven and earth for his success and he (respondent No. 1 ) said that but 
for his help . he could not have succeeded at the election that the Congress 
wag responsible for corruption in younger generation ; but he with the co - opera 
Mon of younger generation would be able to end the Congress rule and wipe 
out the corruption . It is rather surprising that the petitioner is unable to say a 
Word of what Mr. S , M , Joshi said at this meeting, but he claims to remember 
the expression of thanks by respondent No. 1 for Acharya Atre and his daily 
Maratha . 

Chandrakant Desai, the reporter of Free Press Journal, covered this meeting 
on behalf of his newspaper. According to him . respondent No. 1 in his soeech 
thanked the voters for electing him and other candidates sponsored by the Samiti 
and promised to solve the problems of the people of Rombav . Acrording to him , 
he said that his elertion to Lok Sabha was the people s victory . HA thenked the 
pudience and the workers whn helned him at the rinction and PK, Atre , the 
Chairman of the SMS and his paper, He, however , regretted that Atre W98 Toot 
riccessful at the elertion . He said that Atre and Maratha had worked very hard 
for the success of the Samiti and for his own election and he was, therefore , 


pour proper other respondenten 
recha. 


5158 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 (PART II. -- 

- - - - 
thank-tul to them . In his cross - examination he said that after covering this meet 
ing , he submitted his report to the Chief Reporter . In his report of the speech 
of respondent No. 1 , he referred to the city water problem and the other prob 
lems of the city . He mentioned in his report that respondent No. 1 stated that 
he would pay more attention to the problems facing the city ; that if people are 
united , they could defeat the strongest man . He then added that he did not 
remember exactly what else he reported of the speech of respondent No . 1 at the 
meeting. At the time when he gave evidence , he admitted that he had merely 
A rough idea of what respondent No . 1 said at the meeting. He did not remembar 
exactly what he stated at the meeting. He added that in the concluding portion 
of his speech , he stated that if people were united , they can throw out the 
Congress , that he thanked the members of the Samiti, Acharya Atre and the 
newspaper Maratha and said that his victory at the election was due to the co 
operation of the workers, Acharya Atre and others . As regards the concluding 
portion of the speech of respondent No . 1, he said that he had mentioned it in 
the report that he submitted to the Chief Reporter , but it was cut off by the 
Chier Reporter . He admitted that he gave evidence about the concluding portion 
of the speech of respondent No . 1 only from his memory and that except for his 
bare word , he had no written record to show that respondent No. 1 in his speech 
thanked Acharya Atre and Maratha . 

Respondent No. 1 has also given evidence in connection with his speech at 
this meeting . He said that this meeting was held to felicitate, him as a successful 
candidate at the election and was called under the auspices of the SSP . In his 
speech he congratulated the voters of South Bombay for defeating respondent 
No. 2 and thanked them for electing him . He spoke of the problems facing the 
city viz ., water and housing, referred to the forthcoming municipal elections and 
said that they should carry out the fight to defeat the Congress at the time of 
municipal elections also . He expressed his concern at the failure of the Returning 
Oficer to give a re - count at the instance of H . R . Gokhale . He expressed his 
Tegret at the defeat of Krishna Menon and Acharya Atre . He pledged to serve 
his electors and his country . He denied that at this meeting, he thanked Acharya 
Atre or his newspaper Maratha for his success or for having moved heaven and 
earth for his success . He denied having stated at this meeting that Acharya 
Atre and Maratha had worked very hard for the success of the SMS and for his 
election or he was , therefore, thankful to them . In cross - examination he said 
that he was quite certain that no mention was made of Acharya Atre or Maratha 
except for expressing his concern for the defeat of Atre at the election , He 
deposed to what he said about Atre at the meetings that the presence of Atre 
in Lok Sabha would have been a matter of strength to the opposition ; that Atre 
roars like a lion ; that whenever Atre speaks either in the Agsembly or anywhere 
else, he only roare but does not speak . He expressed his concern at this meeting 
for the failure of all the opposition candidates. Acharya Atre, and Gokhale and 
others . 

Ordinarily , respondent No . 1 being an interested witness, the Court will be 
slow to accept hfs testimony in the absence of corroboration . The fact that in 
the course of his speech , he did not thank Acharya Atre and / or Maratha is 
corroborated by the reports of his speech published in newspapers . There is not 
a single newspaper including even Maratha wherein the report of respondent 
No. 1 having at this meeting thanked Acharya Atre or Maratha is published . The 
proceedings of this meeting are reported in the issue of Maratha dated February 
27 , 1987 ( Ex . 192 ) . The report (Ex, 192 ) runs as under : 
" Acharya Atre s going to Parliament was practically more important. We 

cannot plead the people s side and cannot roar ilke a lion as Acharya 
can , We feel sorry for his defeat . But our strength has been doubled 
as Acharya does not feel for his defeat because others of his ideology 
are victorious. There was a grand roar of victory when Shri George 
Fernandes expressed these words of sentiment." 


This report, no doubt, shows that both respondent No. 1 and Atre considered 
that they were inyolved in a common rause during the election . But it does 
not support the petitioner s case that during the course of his speech respondent 
No. 1 thanked Acharva Atré and / or Maratha for having moved heaven and earth 
or the evidence of Chandrakant Desai that respondent No. 1 thanked Acharya 
Atre or his newspaper Maratha for working very hard for his surcess. Ie auch 
thanks were expressed by respondent No. 1 at the meeting. it is very unlikely 
that a paper like Maratha , having regard to the policy that it followed would have 
omitted to make a mention thereof. 


Suc . 3 ( ii ) ]. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 $ 159 
-- = - - - = :: : . -- - - - PHH . . ------- - - --- 

- . . : 

ER 
Just a day before this meeting was hold , respondent No. I had publicly issued 
a message of thanks and that message 19 reporied in the issue of Maratha cated 
February 25 , iyo ? ( Ex , 01 ) . The report Snows that respondent No. 1 issuea a 
statcment expressing his grateful thanks to the voters of the constituency . He 
said , "My Victory 18 not my personal victory . It is the victory of the voters of 
South Bombay . I have no adequate words to express my gratitude for my 
voters. To all those workers wno worked hard day and night and gave their 
sweat and blood for three months. I am deeply indebted . At this moment of 
victory I assure the yoters in all humility that I shall do my best to be worthy 
OI ne trust they have reposed in me.” In this message of thanks respondent 
No. 1 has thanked the voters who elected him and the workers who worked for 
him at the election . If respondent No. I had a special urge to thank Acharya 
Atre or his newspaper Marathu , as is now gought to be suggested , then he would 
not have omitted to mention their names while issuing this message of thanks 
in Ex . 61. 

On the evidence of Chandrakant Desai, I do not consider it safe to hold that 
such thanks were expressed by respondent No . 1 for Acharya Atre or Marath a . 
Chandrakant Desai admils that except for his bare word , there is nothing to 
support his testimony that such thanks were expressed by respondent No. 1 . 
Even in the report of the speech of respondent No. 1 published in Free Press 
Journal there is no mention of such thanks having been expressed by respondent 
No. 1. This omission is sought to be explained by saying that he incorporated 
this part of the speech in the report that he made, but it was deleted by the 
Chief Reporter while sending it to the Press for publication . Apart from his 
bare word , there is no other evidence to support this story of deletion . This story 
of deletion also appears to be inconsistent with the salutary policy of a news 
paper in publishing reports . At the outsct in his evidence , Chandrakant Desai 
said that whenever assignments were given to him by the Chief Reporter , he 
covered those meetings and submitted his reports to the Chief Reporter ; that 
such reports generally always found their place in the newspaper ; that he used 
the word generally because if the Chief Reporter felt that there was some mis 
take or some doubt, then he held up such reports ; that if the Chief Reporter 
felt that the statements made at public meeting were defamatory or its publica 
tion in the newspaper would land it in rouble or if the matter was sub judice , 
he did not publish such a report in the newspaper , If this was the policy that 
was followed for publication of reports in Free Press Journal, there is no good 
reason suggested why the Chief Reporter should have deleted from the report 
made by Chandrakant Desai un ordinary message of thanks expressed by respon 
dent No. 1 for Acharya Atre or his newspaper Maratha. The policy deposed to 
by Chandrakant Desai does not warrant deletion of such a message from the 
report. Further , Chandrakant Desai rightly admitted that he did not remember 
exactly what respondent No . 1 stated at the meeting and he had merely rough idea 
of what he stated . If this is the correct position , it is difficult to understand how 
he remembered about this expression of thanks by respondent No. 1. A reporter 
of a newspaper, having regard to the duties that he has to discharge , has to cover 
a number of public meetings , press interviews, functions etc , Ordinarily , from 
their mere memory, it will not be very easy for them to remember what a 
speaker at a particular meeting said or spoke, unless their memory is refreshed 
by the reports made by them and published in the newspaper . In the present 
case , the report published in the Free Press Journal does not contain any 
report of such expression of thanks by respondent No . 1 and it is difficult to 
understand how without his memory being refreshed , he remembered about 
this expression of thanks. Lastly . it mav be remembered that Chandrakant 
Desai was at one time a sincere Congress worker . He was a volunteer in the 
Congress Seva Dal from 1947 to 1.952 and was the Sorretary of the Girgaum 
Taluka Congress Committee for about six months in the year 1954 , In view 
of these circumstances , I am not inclined to hold on his testimony that in the 
course of his speech , respondent No. 1 expressed thanks for Acharya Atre and 
hig newspaper Maratha. 

In view of these infirmities in the testimony of the petitioner and Chandra 
kant Desal and in the absence of a report in any newspaper about such message 
of thanks. I am not prepared to hold that at this meeting held at Chowpaty , 
respondent No. 1 publicly thanked Acharya Atre annilor his newspaper Maratha 
for having rendered assistance to him at the election , 

To support the contention that reşpondent No . 1 thanked publicly Acharya 
Atre and Maratha at this meeting at Chowpaty , reliance was also placed upon 
a message of thanks published in the issue of Patriot dated February 25 , 1967 , 
Patriot is a Leftist paper , It specially started its Bomha edition only during 
the election period to carry on election campaign in support of the opposition 


SI60 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART I - -- 

- - - - -- - 
Candidates . In the issue of Patriot dated February 25 , 1967, a message of thanks 
with the photo of respondent No, I was published . That is Ex , X - 53. It inter 
alia states that respondent No. I thanked Patriot for the great role it played . 
at a time when no newspaper in the city except for a couple of language news 
papers would take up the people s cause . When this message of thanks ( Ex , X 
53 ) was shown to respondent No. 1 while he was in the witness box , he denied 
having given such a message . He even went to the extent of suggesting that 
a message . is a fabricated one. He was, however, asked by Mr. Jethmalani to 
make enquiries how such a message came to be published in Patriot. Later on 
Mr. Jethmalani did not consider it necessary to pursue this enquiry further . 
In re - examination respondent No . 1 said that after making enquiries , he learnt 
that the message of thanks was published in Patriot dated February 25, 1967 
because the reporter of that paper approached his offlce and someone from his 
office had given that message. This evidence , therefore , explains how the 
message of thanks ( Ex , X -03 ) came to be published . Simply because it contains 
a reference to a couple of language newspapers taking up the people s cause , 
it cannot be inferred that at the meeting at Chowpaty held on February 26 , 1967, 
respondent No. 1 publicly thanked Acharya Atre and / or his newspaper Maratha 
for the great pains that they took for his success at the election . 


To sum up , it is clear iront the above discussion that respondent No . 1 is a 
prominent member of the SSP , that the SSP is a constituent unit of the SMS, 
that both Acharya Atre and respondent No. 1 participated in the formation of 
the SMS, that they both participated in the inauguration of the election 
compaign by the SMS, that the SMS carried on election propaganda for candi 
dates supported by it including respondent No. 1, that Acharya Atre was the 
. President of the Bombay Unit of the SMS and was a prominent and a leading 
member thereof that each of them addressed a meeting in its constituency of 
the other to carry on election propaganda for the other , that Acharya Atre 
through the columng of his newspaper Maratha carried on intensive and vigo 
Tous campaign for success of candidates supported by the SMS including res 
pondent No . 1 that Acharya Atre started a special feature in Maratha under 
the heading "George Fernandes Election Front." These factors amongst others 
show that Acharya Atre had authority to canvasg for respondent No. 1 that 
he made a common cause with respondent No . 1 for promoting his election , 
that to the knowledge of respondent No. 1 for the purpose of promoting his 
election , he (Atre ) canvassed and did various things as tended to promote his 
election . This in law is sufficient to make Acharya Atre an agent of respondent: 
No. 1 as that term is understood under the election law . 


It was , however , argued on behalf of respondent No. 1 that the candidature 
of respondent No . 1 was selected by the SSP , that respondent No. 1 did not 
contribute to the election fund of the SMS or took or received any direct help 
therefrom , that respondent No. I was not a member of any committee of the 
SMS at any level or its office bearer and that he was in sole charge of his 
election campaign . The existence of these factors, in my opinion , do not pre 
vent Acharya Atre becoming the agent of respondent No. 1 . It is not neces 
sary in order to establish agency that Acharya Atre should be actually emp 
loyed or appointed by respondent No. 1. The test always is whether there has 
been authorisation of Acharya Atre by respondent No . 1 to do election work 
for him . The factors above summed up do go to show that Acharya was 
to authorised to do election work for respondent No. 1 . 


The contention then was that there was traditional political hostility bet 
ween Atre on the one hand and the Congress and its leaders including reg 
pondent No. 2 on the other , that the campaign , if there be any , in the issue of 
Maratha against respondent No. 2 was due to such political hostility rather 
than for enhancing the prospects of election of respondent No. 1 


Respondent No. 2 in his deposition said that Maratha and Blitz always 
published news against the Congress and its leaders even when the elections are 
not to be held , that they do not publish news against all Congress leaders but 
they do against some of them , that there are some selected Congress leaders 
these newspapers do not attack , that apart from the election period , Blitz 
never attacked him , that he did not know whether Maratha was habitually 
attacking him , but that during the election period it attacked him that he 
did not know whether since 1957 Maratha was attacking him on the question 
of Samyukta Maharashtra . He said that he used to feel that it was the 
business of such newspapers to abuse him and the Congress , that he felt 
that character assassination not only of his but also of others was their usuel 
job . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 ,KARTIKA 25, 1890 5261 
- "- - - .- - . -- . - = : _ 

- - = = - 

Z - -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - - - - -- ... - " - = = - -- - 
Respondent No. I also said in his evidence that Maratha used to publish 
spicy materials in which there was no substance , that it used to publigh dis 
torled statements or versions, but he would not call tnen lies , that Blitz aisu 
carried sensational stories, sometimes it published stories which are not true 
and subsequently apologised . According to him , the newspapers Maratha , 
Blitz , Patriot and Link were generally against respondent No. 2 for the last 
many years that there was a venuency wito sucul papers to put everything 
against respondent No . 2 where he might have said something against the 
Congress and this he had found especially in the context of his election , that 
both in the 1957 and 1962 elections, Maratha campaigned vigorously for the 
candidates of the Samyukta Manarasnt a Samiti against respondent No. 2 , but 
he was not aware of the nature of the propaganda carried on by Maratha in 
1967 and 1962 elections and he could not say whether any false statements in 
relation to the personal character or conduct of respondent No. 2 were pub 
lished at those elections, 

In view of this evidence , there would be some force in the contention of 
Acharya Atre had made mere propaganda against the Congress and its leaders 
including respondent No. 2 . Acharya Atre , however , has gone much further . 
He made a common cause with respondent No. 1 to support him at the election , 
They both addressed meetings jointly on the same platform they carried on 
propaganda for each other in their respective constituencies , Acharya ATC 
started a distinct feature under the heading “ George Fernandes Election Front.” 
The existence of these factors amongst others above enumerated are sufficient 
to make Acharya Atre the agent of respondent No. 1 inspite of traditional 
political hostility between Atre on the one hand and the Congress and its 
leaders including respondent No. 2 on the other . 

Coming to specific publications in Maratha , 17 items are relied upon finally 
during the arguments and tlfęso itenlis are published from time to time between 
December 12 , 1966 and February 20 , 1967. 

The first publication referrcd to is a cartoon ( Ex . X -27 ) published in the issue 
of Maratha dated January 18 , 1967. This cartoon is headed Capitalism and below 
the cartoon is written , " Mr. Sadoba Patil who boasts of Socialism has 
announced that he would collect a crore of rupees as Election Fund from capita 
lists ." This cartoon is divided into two parts . In the norto - west corner of this car 
toon respondent No. 1 is shown as speaking to a capitalist with his flinger pointed . 
He is telling the capitalist , “ Remember , you have to contribute Rs, 10 
Jacs ." On hearing these words the captalist is shown frightened with 
his mouth open and behind respondent No . 1 is shown another capitalist whose 
turban is shown to have flown away from his head on hearing these words. In 
the other part of this cartoon is shown respondent No. 1 receiving smilingly bags 
of money from several capitalists. The capitalists are shown smiling with bags 
of money in their hands and thc ngures on the bags ir dicnte lacs of rupees or 
crores of rupees. Respondent No. 1 is shown as uttering , he would collect a 
crore of rupees from these capitalists . 

The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that there is an insinuation or 
an innuendo in this cartoon that money is collected by a method other than heal 
thy persuasion , that respondent No. 2 by reason of the political power that the 
wielded intimidated the capitalists into parting with moneys against their wishes , 
that this amounts to extortion and intimidation , that there is thug abuse of power 
involving an element of moral turpitude. It is submitted that fanciful interpreta 
tion of such cartoon or other offensive writings by the returned candidate is wholly 
irreleyant. The test is , how will an ordinary reader of the newspaper wherein the 
cartoon is published interpret it. 

The contention of respondent No . 1, on the other hand , is that the interpreta 
tion put on this cartoon on behalf of the petitioner and respondent No. 2 is not 
correct, that the pointed finger of respondent No. 2 in the cartoon dees not indi 
cate the bayonet, that the capitalist is shown as shocked or frightened not by the 
finger used as bayonet but by the demand made by respondent No. 2 , " Remem 
ber, you have to contribute Rs. 10 lacs” , that there is no impression or feeling of 
fright to be seen on the face of the capitalists when they are shown handing over 
bags containing lacs of rupees to respondent No. 2 , that the inference suggested 
on behalf of the petitioner of the cartoon is not correct, that this cartoon is a cri 
ticism of the practice of respondent No. 2 in professing socialism and at the same 
time having a contact with capitalists , that the cartoon is merely an expression of 
opinion and not a publication of a statement of fact , that is a public criticism of 
the interview that respondent No. 2 gave at New Delhi on January 15, 1987 and in 


5162 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART 11 
- - S ... - - 

, - . 
the course of which he stated that he would collect a crore oť rupees for the elec 
tion fund of the Congress . 

There can be no doubt that the occasion to publish this cartoon ( Ex. X -27) 
was as a result oť the report of the press interview given by respondent No . 2 
which was published in the issue of Times of India dated January 16 , 1967 
( Ex. 147) , One of the question put to respondent No. 2 at this interview was , 
from where does the Congress get its money and the reply of respondent No. 2 is : 
" The Congress gets its money from the industrialists , I shall collect Rupees one 
crore for the party . There is nothing underhand in this . We have a law about 
this. Everything is above board . The Swatantra, PSP , Jan Sangh , all get money 
from the industrialists . There is nothing wrong in that." It cannot be disputed that 
it is this report that has furnished an occasion for publication of the cartoon 
( Ex . X - 27 ) and that is why the cartoon contains the caption that Mr. Sadoba Patil 
who boasts of socialism has announced that he would collect a crore of rupees as 
election fund from capitalists . 

Respondent No. 2 said in his evidence that this cartoon ( Ex . X - 27) . suggests . 
that he used coercion and threat to collect money , that in one part of this cartoon , 
he is depicted as demanding 10 lacs of rupees and he is shown as showing his : 
finger meaning thereby that he was showing a bayonet , that in the other part of 
the cartoon he is shown as collecting heaps of money by adopting this method , 
that below this cartoon it is stated that in the name of socialism he was collecting 
a crore of rupees , that he did not use coercion or threats to collect funds for elec 
tion campaign . There is no cross - examination of respondent No. 2 on the cons 
truction put by him on thin cartoon . He was only asked questions about the 
amount collected by him for the election fund of the Congress, He said that 
he did not remember how much amount was collected for the Congress fund , but 
he would not be surprised it as a result of his writing letter to various business 
men and industrialists , over a crore of rupees were contributed to the Congress 
election fund . 

The case of respondent No. 1 in his cvidence is that he saw this cartoon for 
the first time after the election petition was Aled , but he does not believe that 
respondent No. 2 collected the election funds by threat or coercion . 

The interpretation put by respondent No. 2 on this cart001 
is not challenged in his evidence . If the finger was not pointed 
by respondent No. 2 and merely a demand for Rs. 10 lacs was made for 
contribution to clection fund , there would have been some justification for the 
contention now sought to be raised on behalf of respondent No. 1. The showing 
of the finger is to depict the use of a weapon like a bayonet. This is with a view 
to show cither some intimidation or an element of extortion . The occasion for pub 
lishing a cartoon , no doubt, is a criticism of a public statement made by respon 
dent No. 2 . But the criticism by the cartoon goes much beyond fair legitimate 
criticism permitted or allowed by law . The idea of extortion or intimidation 16 
implicit in the cartoon and inspite of this element, the impression on the face of 
the capitalists shown to be giving lacs of rupees is that of happiness. The cartoon 
wants to convey an idra that the method adopted for col ecting the amount is not 
mere persuasion but goes beyond that . It contains an element of coercion or inti 
midation . The cartoon contains a false insinualion in respect of the personal cha 
racin and conduct of respondent No. 2 and oversteps the limit of public critieism 
justified by law . 

The next item of publication relied upon is a news item published in the issue 
of Maratha dated January 25 , 1967 ( Ex . X - 20 ) . This issue of Maratha contains 
thc licadline on its front page running across its entire page that there is evi 
dence to show that Sadoba Patil is an enemy of Maharashtra . This headline is in 
very hold type. Below this headline there is another headline in a little smaller 
typs covering three columns and it states that the protagonists of centrally admi- 
nistered Goa are bribed in the sum of lacs of rupees. The material part of the 
nous item states : --- 
" It is reliably learnt that the defoat of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak 

Party was due to the bribing of the supporters of the United Goans 
Party by Sadoba Patil, the Minister of Accidents , through his agents 

in the sum of lacs of rupees ," 
As the supporters of the U . G , Party could triumph only because of Sadoba s 

financial inducement, and now being intoxicated by this victory they 
have started committing acts of violence in Goa . 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR ; IKA 25 , 1890) 5163 

- - - - - G 
Sadoba had invited Jack Sequeira to the all India Congress Committee $ cs 

sion held in Bombay in last May. All furthe, politics was cooked in 
that meeting of theirs. At that time Jack Sequeira took a pledge to 
work against Maharashtra with the he. p of Sadoba. Tne sum of ks. 15 
lacs paid by Sadoba to Jack Sequeira were paid positively to obtain 

the votes of the Goans in Dhobi Talao , Chira Bazar areas of Bombay. " 
During the trial Mr. Jethmalani stated that the last sentence in Ex , X - 20 is not 
relied upon as an instance of a corrupt practice for the purpose of this petition 
and that the petitioner is not relying on any corrupt practice of bribery or undue 
influence . 

Respondent No. 2 in his evidence stated that the entire news item ( Ex . X - 20 ) 
is in relation to his personal character , He said that the statements in this new8 
item - It is reliably learnt that the defeat of the Maharaşntrawadi Gomantak 
Pa ty was due to the bribing of the supporters of the United Goans Party by 
Sadoba Patil, the Minister of Accidents , through his agents in the sum of lacs of 
rupees ; Sadoba had invited Jack Sequeira to the All India Congress session held 
in Bombay in last May ; all further politics was cooked in that meeting of theire ; 
at that time Jack Sequeira took a pledge to work against Maharashtra with the 
help of Sadoba - are false statements . He said that he did not provide Rs. 15 lacs 
or any other sum to Jack Sequeira for the purpose alleged in this news item or 
for any other purpose ; that he never provided any funds to Jack Sequeira at any 
time in his life ; that he did not provide even a penny either directly or indirectly 
or personally or through anyone to the supporters of the United Goans Party , 
ttiat he did not know whether Jack Sequeira came to the A . I. C . . C gession that 
he had no meeting with Jack Sequeira at all. He also said that the heading of 
this news item that he is an enemy of Maharashtra is totally falşe and outrageous. 


The contention on behalf of next respondent No. 1 is that this news item merely 
contains an expression of opinion and is not a publication of a statement of fact 
because it starts with the words " It is reliably learnt that. . . . , " and that there is 
Ho evidence that such information was not received by Acharya Atre. The further 
contention is that the phrase " the bribing of the supporters of the United Goans 
Party " merely connotes the financial help given , that a supporter is never b ibed 
and ho is merely given money to carry on the propaganda. It was submitted that 
when an article is susceptible of two interpretations, then the established canon 
of construction requires that the interpretation favourable to the returned candi 
date must be adopted . 

It is true that when the effect of an article is argued in the cold atmosphero 
of a judicial chamber, some allowance has to be made and the impugned article 
has to be construed having regard to the fact that during the election period , the 
atmosphere is usually surcharged with partisan feelings and emotions. 
The Court has to consider what effect such an article will have on the mind of the 
ordinary elector who reads auch an article . The phrase " It is rellably learnt" 
Is a method of conveying one s views. The use of the words " bribing of the sun 
- porters " clearly indicates that the means adopted were not fair . Bribery is always 
29gociated with corrupt means with a view to induce somebody to do a thing 
which otherwise he will not do . There can be no doubt on the evidence of respon 
dent No. 2 that the various statements enumerated above are false statements . 
In fact no attempt has been made to justify the truth of those allegations and these 
stalements reflect upon the personal character of respondent No. 2 . 

Then there is a group of three publications published at different times in the 
ispue of Maratha suggesting that Shiv Sena ts the creation of respondent No. 2 . 
These publications are: a news item ( Ex . X - 29 ) published in the issue of Maratha 
datod January 30 , 1987, a cartoon ( Ex , X - 22 ) published in the logue of Maratha 
datcd February J . 1987 and a news item ( Ex . X - 21 ) published in the issue of 
Maratha dated February 8 , 1987 . 


In Ex . X - 29 a news item is published with the heading "Get ready to face 
Sadashiv Sena" and in this news item there is a reference to the Goondagiri of 
Shiv Sena . The use of the words " Sadashiv Sena" contains an innuendo that Shiv 
Sena is a creation of respondent No . 2 whose name is Sadashiv , The cartoon 
(Ex .- 22 ) is published with a heading I have nothing to do with Shiv Sena . . . . 
Sadoha . The idea of this cartoon appears to have been taken from what is popular 
Tv called Vishwamitra -Menka episode. In this cartoon Bal Thakaray , the leader of 
Shiv Sena , is depicted as a woman holding a baby in his hand named Shiv Sena 
and pointing the baby to respondent No. 2 . Respondent No. 2 is depicted as stating 


5164 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II - 

— - — . .- . -.. 
" No, this ( Shiv Sena ) is not mine." In the news item ( EX . X - 21 ) a report to 
published with the heading " Shiv Sena at service of Sadashiv ." It states " Sadoba 
Patil tried to deny his association with the Shiv Sena but nobody is going to be 
lleve in this . It is well known that Patil always speaks with two mouths. It is true 
that Sadoba had denied any relationship with Shiv Sena, that it is known to many 
people from Girgaon and Thakurdwar area that the workers of Shiy Sena were 
fixing his erection posters in these areas. If Shiv Sena and Sadoba have no rela 
tion whatsoever, why the workers of Shiv Sena should offer their service for fixing 
posters? This topic is being discussed keenly by the people from Girgaon area . " 

It is the case of the petitioner that by this publication the name of respondent 
No . 2 is associated with a political body which at sometime during the election 
period indulged in acts of Goondaism and is thus a reflection upon his personal 
character . The contention , on the other hand , of respondent No . 1 is that these 
publications merely express an opinion and are not publications of statements of 
facts , that they are not a personal attack on the character of respondent No. 2 , 
that they merely constitute political criticism of the activities of respondent No. 2 

There is evidence on record about the political philosophy of Shiv Sena and 
its activities. The petitioner in his evidence stated that the non -Marathi speaking 
people in Bombay feel that the activities of Shiv Sena were separatist and anti 
national and the life and property of non -Marathi speaking people in Bombay 
are not safe , Such people hate the activities of Shiv Sena and association of res 
pondent No. 2 with the activities of Shiv Sena . Shiv Sena, according to the 
petitioner , advocates that Maharashtrians should be given more opportunities for 
employment and accommodation in Maharashtra . He considered such activities 
anti - national as they were repugnant to equality of opportunity . According to 
him , at the election Shiv Sena supported those candidates who agreed with its 
ideology . 

Respondent No. 2 said that he became aware of the existence of the body called 
Shiv Sena for the first time when a report was published in newspaper about 
looting of shops of South Indians sometime in the end of the year 1966 . His 
attention was drawn by the Prime Minister to this report and he said that the 
activities of Shiv Sena should be immediately put down . He did not support the 
activities of Shiv Sena either directly or indirectly and did not subscribe to the 
policy or the objects of Shiv Sena. He said that during the election period , & 
question was put to him while he was addressing a press conference and he 
stated that he had nothing to do with Shiv Sena or its activities and he 
denounced it. He says that the insinuation by this publication that he created 
Shiv Sena is entirely false . 

The evidence of respondent No. 1 is that he came to know of these publica 
tions for the first time after this election petition was Aled . He did not believe 
that Shiv Sena is created by respondent No. 2 or is Sadashiv Sena belonging to 
him . He did not believe that respondent No. 2 was supporting the Shiv Sena , He 
said that his attention was drawn to a report (Ex . Y - 8 ) published in Indian Ex 
press dated February 6 , 1967 wherein it is stated that respondent No . 2 had ad 
vised the organisers of Shiv Sena not to indulge in undemocratic acts . In view 
of this report, respondent No . 1 said that he might have stated that respondent 
No, 2 was not right in denying his connection with Shiv Sena . 

From this evidence it charges that Shiv Sena, no doubt is a political organi 
sation , it came into limelight when its workers indulged in acts of violence and 
looted the shops of South Indians at Dadar, Association of the name of respon 
dent No. 2 with such a body as its creater and with its activities , is certainly 
reflection upon the personal character of respondent No. 2 . These allegations in 
Ex , X - 29 , Ex . X - 22 and Ex , X - 21 are undoubtedly false. 

Reference is then made to a group of three publications associating the name 
of respondent No . 2 as the agent of American capitalists . They are news item 
(Ex . X - 25 ) published in the issue of Maratha dated December 12 , 1968, (Ex , Y - 5 
is a full report of this news item ) , a news item ( part of Ex , X - 32 ) published in 
the lasue of Maratha dated February 11 , 1967 and a news Item ( Ex . X - 7 ) pub 
lish - d in the issue of Maratha dated February 14 , 1987. 

Ex. X - 25 purports to contain a report of a speech alleged to be made by 
Communist leader Dange . This news item is headed " Defeat Sadoba Patii. the 
agent of American capitalists ." In the news Item respondent No. 2 is described as 
an agent of American capitalists and agbasginator of democracy . The news Item 
( EX . X - 32 ) purports to contain a report of a speech alleged to be made by Acharya 
Atre , It reports that Acharya Atre said , that respondent No. 2 is a hired agent 


Sec. 3( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5 :65 
- - - - - - - - 

= 

- - - - 
of America is a well - known fact ; whether Goa formed part of Portugal or 
Kashmir formed part of Pakistan , these capitalists are least concerned about such 
things. The news item (Ex , X - 7 ) states that respondent No. 2 is already known 
as an agent of the American imperialism in India . 

The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that by describing respondent No. 
2 as the agent of American capitalists or as a hired agent of America or ag an 
agent of American Imperialism , there is attack on his basic patriotism , The con 
tention , on the other hand , of respondent No. 1 is that this is merely a political 
criticism of the activities of respondent No. 2 and does not constitute attack on 
his personal character. 

Respondent No . 2 in his evidence has stated that the statements published in 
these publications are totally false and one should be ashamed of making such 
statements . They caste aspersion upon his character. Nothing could be more 
damaging to his character than such statements . It insinuates that just as Ame 
rica is indifferent to whether Goa forms part of Portugal or Kashmir forms part 
of Pakistan , so also , he , who was described as a hired agent of America , was in 
different to Goa forming part of Portugal or Kashmir forming part of. Pakistan , 
There is no cross - examination of respondent No . 2 on this part of the evidence . He 
was cross - examined about his views on socialism , He was asked whether in any of 
his speeches he referred to what was called General Motors Socialism . He said that 
in one of his speeches he remembers to have stated that General Motors has large 
number of shareholders , that if any motor corporation wanted to have any 
rise in price of motor cars even of 50 dollars per car or so , they had to justify 
such a scheme before the Inter Commerce Commission , that at that stage even 
the leaders of labour were heard and that the rise in Price of motors wag 
permitted only if the Commission certified , that there was thus social control 
on capital even in U . S . A . He, however, did not remember whether any other 
speaker described it by saying that he was a follower of General Motor Socialism . 
He also said that he had expressed his profound appreciation for the democratic 
system prevailing in America and the other democracles and that in our 
Constitution , we borrowed a number of things from the American Constitution 
and Constitutions of other countries. 


By describing him as the agent of American capitalists or the hired agent or 
the agent of American Imperialism , the suggestion made is that he looks after 
the interests of a foreign country and by describing him as hired agent, the 
idea intended to be conveyed is that he does so for monetary consideration , 
This cannot be regarded as a mere political criticism of respondent No . 2 . It 
is an attack on his patriotism and is a reflection on his personal character . 

Reference is then made to a group of four publications wherein his name 
is agsociated with acts of Goondaism and violence. They are the news item 
(Ex . X -31) published in the issue of Maratha dated February 8 , 1987, the news 
item ( Part of Ex , X - 32 ) published in the issue of Maratha dated February 11 , 
1987, an editorial (Ex, X - 36 ) published in the issue of Maratha dated February 
17, 1967 and a leading article (Ex. X - 37) published in the 19sue of Maratha 
dated February 20 , 1967. . 

The news item (Ex. X - 31 ) Is headed " Atrocities by the Goondas of Sadoba " 
and it reports that the hired Goondas of respondent No . 2 indulged in acts of 
violence therein referred to . News item (Ex , X - 32 part) is headed " Atrocities 
of Sadoba & Co." for fear of defeat which purports to describe a strategy 
adopted by agents of respondent No. 2 . It is a part of this strategy to assault 
Şamiti candidates and their workers . This news Item also purports to contain 
a report of a statement alleged to be made by respondent No. 1 at a press 
conference to the effect that many Goondas have been set free and were placed 
at the disposal of respondent No . 2 . The editorial ( Ex , X - 36 ) 1s headed " The 
uncrowned Gundeshwar (Lord of Goondas ) of Bombay. " In the first part of 
this editorial it is gtated that all acts of Goondaism are receiving the Inspira 
tion from one source only and that a dynamo is kept for that purpose at one 
central place . Then it refers to the miscreants disrupting the meetings of the 
oppoging parties by means of acts of hooliganism causing damage to goods and 
property by pelting stones , threatening the candidates of opposing parties , 
occasionally kidnapping them , belabouring the workers of the opposing parties, 
having the opposing candidates beaten or killed by hirelings, murdering the 
workers of parties other than the Congress . Things like this are rampant 
today throughout the country . . . . . . . . Th .. uniform characte - of the source of 
these diverse activities can be immediately visualised . In this editorial there is 
a reherence to the attack on Mr. Madhu Limaye as follows: " The mercilroo 
attack which was recently made on Shri Madhu Limaye, a well known 


2 


- 


1166 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II- -- 

: 
Member of Parliament, is just an example of the limits to which Goondas can 
go . The charge made by Sau , Champabai Limaye about a Central Cabinet 
Minister being the moving sprit behind these Goondas appears to be of special 
import in the context of these nationwide acts of Goondas," These are 
general allegations referring to one source without specifying what that source 
18 . The editorial further proceeds to state : “ Take the Instance of Sadoba 
Patil himself ." It criticises the various activities of respondent No, 2 . It 
further states: " It is of course a well known fact that Sadoba Patil has a 
very long and enduring friendship with Goondaism . Sadoba has become an 
expert from experience in riding on two horses, pleasing capitalists on one 
side and humouring Goondas on the other side. There cannot be two opinions 
that Sadoba is incomparable in at least this one matter . The acts of Goonda 
iem practised by Shiv Sena became widespread in Bombay only when it 
reached the stage of deterioration in the form of Sadashiv Sena. Now although 
Sladoba is holding a hand like Vishwamitra over one eye in the matter of 
Shiv Sena, he is certainly looking at that child of his born out of illicit love 
relations with is half open second . . . . . From this also one feels certain 
that Gangotri ( the source ) of the acts of Goondaism which are prevalent today 
all over Bombay Owes its origin to the Congress House opposite the doors of 
the brothels situate near the Kennedy Bridge . . . . , Presuming that Sadoba s 
kingship over Bombay is just befitting this American culture , we are confident 
that no real Bombayite will grudge paying a Nazrana ( compliment) to the 
uncrowned Lord of Goondas like Sadoba that his reign is going on at present in 
full swing all over Greater Bombay. " The same theme is continued in the 
leading article ( Ex . X - 37 ) published with the heading " Destroy Sadobashahi." 
This leading article inter alia states ; Today the dictatorial tendency in the 
Congress has reached its apex and in India dictatorship ’ is meaningfully called 
by the name Sadobaghahi. The only difference is that the atrocities which 
are committed by dictators with the help of the arm are committed and hushed 
up by Sadoba with the help of Goondas. . . . Sadoba has now started undertak 
tog Padayatras (walking tourg ) too . This Tamasha (batoonery ) of Padayatra 
by Sadoba is as detestable as that of the cat embarking upon a Haj Pilgrimage 
after digesting a thousand mice. The very Şadoba Patil who has never given 
Rny exercise to his gigantic feet except that of trampling the masses under 
them for the last 18 years has now come forward to perform Padayatra mov 
ing about with the mendicant s bowl for collecting votes . What a spectacle of 
hypocricy this is : As goes the saying " sins by night and penance by day " 
Sadoba seems to have remembered Rama in the two months of election period 
after having perpetrated Ravanaşhahi ( tyranny ) for five years . . . The Samiti has 
to perform the three - fold task of ending the corrupt Congress regime, liquidating 
Sadobashahi (dictatorship of Sadoba ) which is spreading the reign of Goonda 
ism . . . . . . 

The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that by these publications, the 
name of respondent No . 2 is associated with various acts of Goondalem and is 
connected with crimes including crimes like attempt to commit murder and mur 
der, The contention on behalf of respondent No. 1 is that in Ex . X -31 there is no 
personal attack on respondent No . 2 , but the attack is on his workers, that in 
Ex X - 36 the dynamo of the source suggested is the Congress and not respondent 
No . 2 , that the Central Cabinet Minister whoge name is associated with the merci 
legs attack on Madhu Limaye is not that of respondent No . 2 . 

Respondent No. 2 in his evidence has enumerated the various false statements 
In relation to his personal character and conduct in the editorial Ex . X - 38 . They 
Are the following : 

( 1 ) The heading " The uncrowned Gandeshwar (Lord of Goondas ) of Bonn 

bay . 
( 2 ) It is insinuated 
(i) that respondent No. 2 indulged in acts of Goondaism and the acts of 

hooliganism , 
( ii) that respondent No. 2 caused damage to goods and property by peiting 

stones. 
(iii ) that respondent No. 2 threatened candidates of the opposing parties 

and kidnapped them , 
(iv ) that respondent No. 2 disrupted meetings of the opposing parties, 
( v ) that respondent No, 2 belaboured workers of opposing parties, 
( vi ) that respondent No . 2 got opposing candidates beaten or killed by 

hirelings , 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5167 


( vii) that respondent No. 2 got workers of parties other than Congress : 

murdered , 
( 3 ) The insinuation in this article 
( i) that respondent No. 2 had a hand in the marciless attack on Madhu. 

Limaye, 
( ii) that there cannot be two opinions that Sadoba is incomparable in at 

least this one matter , 
( iii) that the acts of Goondaism practised by Shiv Sena because widespread . 

in Bombay only when it reached the stage of deterioration in the 

form of Sadsashiv Sena . 
( lv ) that now although Sadoba is holding a hand like Vishwamitra over 

one eye in the matter of Shiv Sena , he is certainly looking at that 
child of his born out of illicit love relations with his half open gecond . 
eye , 


The various allegations in these publications accusing respondent No. 2 having . 
a hand in the acty of Goondaism and in criminal activities linvolving violence are 
patently false. Respondent No. 2 has clearly stated that he never indulged at 
any time in his life in any act of Goondaism , that he had nothing to do directly 
or indirectly with the alleged attack on Madhu Limaye , His evidence on this point. 
is not at all challenged in cross - examination , These are serious allegations made 
without regard being had to truth and definitely are false statements in relation 
to the personal character and conduct of respondent No . 2 , 


The next publication relied in this behalt is an extract from an article by 
S . M . Purkar published at p - 3 of the issue of Maratha dated December 28 , 1968 . 
They are at Ex . X -24 and Ex . Y - 12 . In these exhibits are shown the photographs 
of respondent No . 2 , Mr . S . M . Joshi and Acharya Atre . The caption below the 
photograph of respondent No. 2 is " Najibkhan of Maharashtra, Sadóba Patil.” The 
caption below the photograph of Mr. S . M . Joghi is " The Saubhagya ( fortune ) of 
Socialism " and the caption below the photograph of Acharya Atre is " Maharash 
tra" in human for," In this article respondent No . 2 is described as the Najib 
khan of the political and economic interest of Maharashtra . The contention on 
behalf of the petitioner is that by describing him as the Najlbkhan of Maharash : 
tra , it is sought to be insinuated that he is the traitor to the cause of Maharashtra . 
The contention on behalf of respondent No . 1 on the other hand is that guch des 
aription is merely an expression of opinion and not a statement of fact, that it is 
purely a political criticism and has no relation to the personal character of res 
pondent No , 2 . 


It is well settled that adverse criticism however severe , however undignified or 
ill-mannered , however regrettable it might be in the Interests of purity and de 
cency of public life , in - elation to the political viewg, position , reputation of action 
of a candidate , would not bring it within the mischief of the statute . The Court 
in such matters cannot Judge these statements in the light of their decency Or 
desirability in so far as they are political statements not calculated to attack the 
personal character or conduct of any riyal candidate . In this article , there is un 
doubtedly criticism suggesting that the activities of respondent No . 2 ate against 
the political and economic interest of Maharashtra , If the matter has rested there 
only , it would be merely a political criticism of the acts and conduct of respondent 
No. 2 , but in this article below his photograph , the caption is Najibkhan of 
Maharashtra , while in the body of the article he is desc" ibed as Najibkhan of the 
political and economic interest of Maharashtra . Such a description of respondent 
No. 2 undoubtedly is in relation to the personal character and conduct of respon 
dent No . 2 because Najibkhan is a historical figure , who, during the Maratha re.. 
Rime played treachery upon his masters. The petitioner in his evidence has stated 
that in the History of Maharashtra , Najibkhan is known as the most unscrupu 
lous. notorious historical character and due to his treacha y Maharashtra logt a 
very decisive battle of Panipat. In fact Maharashtra depended upon his assist 
ance but he invited enemies of Maharashtra and stabbed Maharashtra in the back , 
In his corse -examination he said that he learnt about Najibkhan while he was 
at the school. Najibkhan was a soldier in the services of Holkars and had a 
battalion under him . In the battle of Panipat against Ahmedshah Abdall, he 
helped Mohammedans as a result of which Marathas suffered heavy losses. There 
is no evidence on record rebutting the fact that Najibkhan made his name as a 


- -- 


- 


- - 


- - - -- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


5168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART IL-- 

--- - ----- 
notorious historical figure who played treachery upon his masters , namely , Hol 
kars and Marathas. To describe respondent No. 2 as the Najibkhan of Maharash 
tra or even as Najibkhan of Political and Economic interests of Maharashtra is 
certainly to insinuate that respondent No. 2 has not at his heart these interest of 
Maharashtra and he is unfaithful to that cause . This undoubtedly will be an 
attack on his personal character and conduct. Respondent No. 2 in his evidence 
has stated that such an insinuation is entirely false . There is no evidence to re 
but it . 

The next publication in Maratha is in reference to a report of a speech alleg 
ed to be made by respondent No. 1 at a public meeting held at Shivaji Park on 
January 31, 1967 . That report is Ex , X - 23 in the issue of Maratha dated Feb 
ruary 1 , 1967. The report says that in the course of his speech respondent No. 1 
alleged to have stated : “ It is true that even God cannot defeat Patil because God 
cannot exchange ballot boxes . He (God ) is honest unlike Patil." While dealing 
with the second instance of the corrupt practice alleged to be committed by res 
pondent No. 1 I have held that in the course of his speech respondent No. 1 did 
not utter these words . Respondent No. 2 in his eyidence has stated that the 
statement that he exchanged ballot boxes is utterly false. Such an allegation 
against respondent No . 2 not only accuses him of utterly unfair conduct, but it 
Also amounts to a criminal act of a very fraudulent nature . By such an alle 
Ration , accusation is made that he in the habit of winning elections by fraudulent 
and criminal acts. This undoubtedly is a false statement in relation to his per 
sonal character . 

The next publication relied upon is a report Ex . X - 15 in the issue of February 
17 , 1967 in respect of a statement made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya of Puri 
Pith at a press conference in Bombay . The report states inter alia " Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya exp essed his clear opinion that S . K . Patil, who claims to have 
done everything for imposing a ban on cow - slaughter is a hypocrite . He stated 
that Madhu Limaye had levelled a clear charge that the riots which took place 
during the demonstrations staged at Delhi on the 7th of November for putting a 
ban on cow - slaughter had been brought about through Gundas by Shri S . K . Patil 
and Atulya Ghosh . Both of them have not specifically denied that up till now . ” 
In this statement there is a two fold allegation . First is that along with Atulya 
Ghosh , respondent No. 2 is alleged to have engineered the riots at Delhi through 
Goondas and the second is that the claim made by respondent No, 2 that he has 
done everything for imposing a ban on cow - slaughter shows that he is a hypo 
crite . 

Respondent No . 2 in his evidence has said that he had no hand whatsoever , 
whether direct or indirect , in the riots that took place at Delhi on November , 7 , 
1968 that during those riots there was hooliganism , arson , looting and every 
form of crime, that there was arson and Are at the house of the Congress Pre 
sident and he had to made through water that was used for extinguishing fire . 
This evidence of respondent No. 2 is not challenged in . In his cross -examination 
nor Is any evidence led to suggest that this evidence does not represent the truth . 
The accusation , therefore , that respondent No. 2 had a hand in the riots that 
took place at Delhi and those riots were engineered by him through Goondag 18 
an entirely false accusation in relation to his personal character, 


As regards the second part of the statement published in this issue of Maratha 
at one stage it was urged that it was not the petitioner s or respondent No . 2 s 
case that he ( respondent No. 2 ) has publicly claimed at any time that he has 
done everything for linpoging a ban on cow - slaughter . The gubmission was that 
such a basic assumption in the report is not correct . It was however brought to 
the notice of the Counsel for the Petitioner and respondent No . 2 that no such plea 
is found either in the petition or in the written statement of respondent No. 2 
nor as any evidence led to support such a plea . When these facts were pointed 
out, it was conceded both on behalf of the petitioner as well as respondent No. 2 
that in view of the pleadings in the case and the evidence led , it will not be open 
either to the petitioner or to respondent No. 2 to urge such a plea . 


Respondent No . 2 has however given evidence as regards his views in the 
matter of imposing ban on cow - slaughter and the steps that he has taken to im 
pose such a ban on Cow - slaughter . He has stated that the statement in this 
news item that he is a hypocrite is false . In his evidence he has stated that 
he considered cow as a sacred animal and respected it. As a Minister in charge 
of Agriculture , he did various things to protect animals and especially the cow . 
He detested cow - slaughter , In or about 1960 -61, when he was the Minister in 


$ ec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5169 
S S .. . : - : : ... - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
charge of Food & Agriculture , Legislation was passed which provided for consti-. 
tution of Animal Welfare Board . Prior thereto for a period of nearly 10 years. 
he was the President of All India Animal Welfare Association . Many times in 
Parliament, he stated that Indian Agriculture should be cow -based as distin 
guished from buffalo - based , India required 10 million bullocks for agriculture ;. 
there cannot be a strong bullock without a strong cow . In order to encourage 
drinking milk of cow , he started an experiment in Bombay with the co -operation 
of Humanitarian League ; a sum of Rs. 2 lakhs was collected and the unit of cow 
Was given to Aarey Colony with a view to create a cow unit that unit in Aarey 
Colony is working very well. Similarly in most of dairy farms Such cow units 
there are his instance and these units are also working very well. As regards 
banning of cow slaughter he did everything in his power to convince Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya that legislation would be enacted to ban cow slaughter . After 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya started his fast some of his disciples came to him and 
asked him to do something so that something could be done for banning cow 
slaughter and Jagadguru could be persuaded to end his fast. He placed himself 
at their disposal and thereafter had frequent conferences in Delhi. He hadi 
discussions with Swami Arvindanand , the sole representative of Goraksha Maha 
Abhiyan Samiti to evolve formula as a result of which Jagadguru might be per 
suaded to end his fast. In his opinion Article 48 of the Constitution permitted 
legislation prohibiting slaughter of cow and other milk and draught cattle . He 
said that there was a decision of Supreme Court which created a doubt about 
blanket prohibition . He said that while evolving a formula if it was necessary to 
amend Article 48 of the Constitution to permit a blanket prohibition on slaughter 
of cow , he would do his best to suggest an amendment of the Constitution . He 
said that he would resign his seat from Parliament if he was not able to do so . 
In his cross -examination , his attention was drawn to a passage at p . 237 in Welles 
Mangen s book " After Nehru , Who ." That passage was to the following effect : 


" Patil admits in private that the agitation against cow slaughter is "wrongly 

connected with our religion ." But in public he protests his devotion to 
the Gosamvardhan Council. He once told Parliament:- Honourable 
Members know my views. So far as cow protection is concerned , I am 
one with them and I know what really the cow wealth can mean for 
us. Not only is it necessary that the cow must be protected ; it must 
not be killed ," When I pressed Patil to reconcile his statements , he 
Anally retorted , " Every one cannot be Jesus Christ. You have to win 
elections, My Deputy said soinething in favour of cow slaughte - and 
almost lost his election , I had to rescue hin . It is very delicate matter 
and must be dealt with delicately . You can t offend against the senti 
ments of millions of people at once ." . 


Respondent No . 2 said that he was not correctly reported in this book . He said 
that out of the above passage , the following statements are not correct: 

( 1 ) " Patil admits in private that the agitation against cow - slaughter is 

w ongly connected with our religion , but in public he protests his de 
votion to the Gosamvardhan Council.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Everyone can t be : 
Jesus Christ . You have to win elections. My deputy said something in 
favour of cow slaughter and almost lost his clection . I had to rescue 
him , It s a very delicate matter and must be dealt with delicately . 
You can t offend against the sentiments of millions of people at once ." 


He said that his quotation as regards what he said in Parliament in the above 
para was correct, But Welles Hangen did not ask him to reconci e his views in pri 
vate and public . As regards Jagadguru Shankaracharya s fast, he tried to Inter 
vene for terinination of the fast and for bringing about settlement of the issue . 
He took fa - more interest than other Members of the Government at a later date . 
Delegations used to meet him often and at his suggestion , Sarva Daliya Goraksha 
Maha - Abhiyan Samiti appointed a sole representative , Swami. Arvindanand to 
negotiate with him and if need be , he was to discuss the matter with the Primo 
Minister . Swami Arvindanand had discussion with him for about 8 days. He 
states that 11 States had passed legislation for banning the cow - slaughter while 
the rest of the States had not passed legislation , that such States should be pre 
vailed upon to impose the ban , the Central Government wrote to the other States 
to take the steps to ban cow - slaughter and it was because of Article 48 he had 
an impression that the Constitution permitted ban on cOW slaughter and even 
on the day he gave evidence he was of that view except for the doubt created by 
the Judgment of the Supreme Court. He was aware of the decision of the Supreme 


- 


1 


$ 170 . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART JI - . 

-- - - - - - - - . . . 
Court. In Mohamed Hanif Kureshi s case ( 1 ) ( 1959 S . C . R . 629 ) it is held that 
a total ban on the slaughter of cows of all ages, of she -buffaloes, bulls and but 
locks ( cattle or buffalo ) after they ceased to be capable of yielding milk or of 
breeding or working as draught animals was not in the interests of the gene al 
public and was invalid . He was not , however , aware of the decision of the 
Supreme Court in Abdul Hakim Curaishi & Ors. v . State of Bihar , AIR 1961 
Sup eme Court 448 to the effect that S . 3 of the Bihar Act to the extent it increased 
the age limit to 25 for the purpose of their slaughter imposed unreasonable roo 
triction on the fundamental right under Article 19 and was void and that the 
UP, Act to the extent that it imposed a high age limit of 20 years and an addi 
tional condition that they should be permanently unſt and unservicable was also 
void as being unreasonable . He said that he could not say whether a decision 
was taken by the Central Government to amend the Constitution so as to pe .mit a 
- a total ban on cow slaughter . He did not try to find whether such a decision 
was taken by Government or not. He said that he did not come across any decla 
ration either by the Government or by the Prime Minister to the effect that 
appropriate steps would be taken to impose a total ban on cow -slaughter. As re 
gards the negotiations for termination of fast by Jagadguru Shankaracharya he 
said that after a certain stage these negotiations were carried on by the Prime 
Minister s representative Mr. Tha and he could not bring about any settlement 
though he brought them nearer and he smoothened the negotiations, He thought 
that the gap between the Government and Sarva Daliya Go aksha Maha -Abhiyan 
Samiti was being bridged but he did not know in what direction such gap was 
bridged . He actually did not know the terms as such terms did not appear in 
the papers . He said that during the time he was a Member of Parliament he had 
not introduced any bill for imposing total ban on cow - slaughter. As a Member of 
the Congress Parliamentary Party , he did not attempt to introduce such a bill 
in the Parliament. Such bills are to be passed by the Legislature of the State and 
that was why he could not introduce such a bill in the Parliament. He did not 
know whether certain other members had introduced bills in Lok Sabha for a 
total ban on cow - slaughter . When a suggestion was made to him that he pro 
Tessed support for ban on cow - slaughter without actually intending it and that 
he did it only with a view to get votes at the election , he denied the correctness 
of such suggestion . He said that he believed cow as a religious symbol and ad 
vocated support for total ban on cow -slaughter. It was not a matter of profes 
sion but a deep seated conviction , 


The fact that respondent No. 2 is in favour of a ban on cow - slaughter is sup 
ported by a statement made by him in April 1959. A report of that statement was 
published in the issue of Times of India dated April 26 , 1959 (Ex , X -67) . This re 
port refers to a speech made by respondent No. 2 at the time of the opening 
of a cow section in the Aarey Milk Colony , He asked the organisers to create 
public opinion in favour of ban on cow - slaughter. From this evidence , it is clear 
that respondent No . 2 is in favour of imposing a complete ban on Cow - slaughter . 

The evidence however does not directly enumerate the concrete specific and 
- effective steps that ( respondent No. 2 ) adopted for imposing ban on cow - slaughter 
or for enacting legislation for such ban or for amending Article 48 of the Consti 
tution so as to permit imposition of complete ban on cow - slaughter . 


The next publication referred to are a cartoon and a poem published in the 
issue of Maratha dated December 31 1966 ( Ex , X - 16 ) . In this cartoon it is 
depicted on one side a cow and Jagadguru Shankaracharya standing by her side 
saying " Cow is my mother. Do not kill her " , On the other side of the cartoon 
is shown the figure of respondent No. 2 standing by the side of a pig , saying 
“ the pig is my father . Do not kill him ." In this very issue of Maratha a poem 
is published with the heading " wailing of Sadoba , the son of a pig. There can 
be no doubt that both the cartoon and the poem are scandaloug in nature and 
published in the utterly brad taste . They contain extremely undignified critic 
iam in relation to respondent No. 2 . However , neither the cartoon nor the poem 
deals with any aspect of personal character or condudt of respondent No. 2 . 


The last publication relied upon is a news_ item ( Ex . X - 35 ) published in the 
issue of Maratha dated February 16 , 1967. This news item is in relation to a 
refusal of permission by the Commissioner of Police for holding a meeting by 
Sarvadaillya Goraksha Samiti. This news item , inter alia states " Sadoba Patil 
made conspiracy and thus banned the Azad Maidan and Chowpatty , to the meet 
ings of the Saryadaliya Goraksha Samiti with a fear that the speech of Shankara 
charya Jagadguru of Puri may not have adverse effect on the voters from his 


Sec . 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5171 


- 


constituency. By the above statement, it is insinuated that respondent No. 2 had 
a hand in refusal of permission by Government. Such a news item conveys the 
idea of moral turpitude and this is effectively brought out by using the word 
" conspiracy " . There is evidence on record that respondent No . 2 had nothing to 
do with the granting or refusal permission for holding such meetings. 


od candidate wasteesPathis poeme aimed at the rest 


It is one of the essential ingredients of the corrupt practice under section 
123 ( 4 ) that the statement of fact must be believed to be false or must not be 
believed to be true. The question arises whether such belief has to be entertain 
ed ( a ) by the candidate or ( b ) by the agent or ( c ) by the other persons punishing 
it with the consent of the candidate or his election agent. The contention on 
behalf of the petitioner is that in view of the decision of the Supreme Court in 
Kumara Nand vi Brij Mohanlal Sharma AIR 1967 Supreme Court , 803, such belief 
under the section should be entertained by the candidate , even in cases where 
the publication is by a person other than the candidate . 

In Kumara Nand y case, as held by the Supreme Court the appellant ( return 
od candidate ) was responsible for the publication of a poem entitled : "Mang raha 
hoon do bhai vote ." This poem was composed by one Avinash Chunder of 
Beawar , The poem in question was aimed at the respondent and he was a target 
of the attack made therein : that , the poem in question wag read at the election 
meeting of February 21, 1962 which the appellant himself was presiding . Avinael 
Chunder had recited this poem at this meeting ; the booklet containing the poen 
wag printed at the instance of one Chand Mohamad who was the polling and 
counting agent of the appellant and who had also paid the author Avinat 
Chunder . something for it. The appellant had seen the booklet containing the 
poem something before the meeting of February 21, 1962 and had rcad it . The 
booklet containing the poem was printed with the knowledge and approval of 
the election agent of the appellant: the poem was recited at the meeting of 
February 21, 1962 by Avinash Chunder. The appellant was presiding at that 
meeting and one Kalyan Singh , his election agent was present in it. The High 
Court while deciding this case had taken the view that the belief of Avinash 
Chunder was immaterial and that it was the believe of the appellant that mattered . 
Before the Supreme Court, it was sought to be contended that it should have 
been proved that Avinash Chunder who recited the poem at the meeting believ 
ed the statement to be false or did not belleve it to be true, that on this point 
Avinash Chunder was not questioned though he appeared as a witness and that 
therefore , a corrupt practice within the meaning of s . 123 ( 4 ) was not established . 
This contention was negatived and the decision of the High Court to the effect that 
the belief of Avinash Chunder was immaterial and that it was the beliet of 
the appellant that mattered was confirmed . The Supreme Court enumerated 
the requirements of this corrupt practice that were laid down earlier in 
Sheopal Singh v . Ram Pritad AIR 1965 Supreme Court . 677 . The sub - section 
requires : ( i ) publication of any statement of fact by a candidate , (ii) that the 
fact is false , ( ill ) the candidate believes it to be false or does not believe It 
to be true ( lv ) the statement is in relation to the personal character or con 
duct of another candidate and ( v ) the said statement is one being reasonably 
calculated to prejudice the prospects of the other candidate s election . At 
p . 813 the Supreme Court observed : -- 
" This case thus clearly lays down that the person with whose beliet 

the provision is concerned is ordinarily the candidate who, if we 
may gay go , is responsible for the publication . The responsibility 
of the candidate for the publication ariseg if he publishes the 
thing himself . He is equall responsible for the publlration of 
It is published by his agent. Thirdly is also responsible where 
the thing is published by any other person but with the consent 
of the candidate or his election agent. In all three cases the 
responsibility is of the candidate and it is ordinarily the candi 
date s belief that matters for this purpose. If the candidate 
either believes the statement to be false or does not believe It 
to be true he would be responsible under s. 123 ( 4 ) . In the pre 
sent case the poem was not actually read by the appellant, but 
it was read in his presence at a meeting at which he was presid 
ing by Avinash Chunder. In these rircumstances , the High 
Court was right in coming to the conclusion that the recitation 
of the noem by Avinash Chunder at the meeting amounted to 
the publication of the false statement of fact contained in 1t by 
another person with the consent of the candidate , and in this 
case, even of his election agent who was also present at the 


5172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ PART II 


meeting. But the responsibility for such publication in the cir 
cumstances of this case is of the candidate and it is candidate s belief 
that matters and not the belief of the person who actually 
read it with the consent of the candidate . What would be the 
the position in a case inspire the candidate had no knowledge at all of 
the pubication before it was made need not be considered for 
what is not so here . It is not disputed in this case that the state 
ment that the respondent was the greatest of all thieves, was 
false . It is also not seriously challenged that the appellant did 
not believe it to be true. The contention that Avinash Chunder s 
belief should have been proved must therefore fail." 


This case therefore shows that it was decided on the footing that the publi 
gation was by a person other than the candidate , but which his consent and 
that in such a case, the requisite belief provided in the sub - section must be 
entertained by the candidate and the belief of the publisher was not relevant. 


Respondent No. 1 has deposed in his evidence that the various publication : 
in Maratha , namely Ex . X - 27 , Ex . X - 20 , Ex . X - 29, Ex . X - 22. Ex . X - 21 , Ex . X -25 , 
Ex . X - 32, Ex . X - 7 , Ex . X - 31, Ex . X - 32 , Ex , X - 36 , Ex . X - 37 , Ex , X - 24 . 
Ex . X - 23 , Ex . X - 15 , Ex . X - 16 and Ex . X - 35 were seen by him for the first time 
after this Election Petition was filed. Even on the date when he gave evidence he 
had not gone through each one of them . He went through some of them after 
this election petition was filed . None of these news items, cartoons, editorials 
was published with his consent or knowledge, He generally said that no 
news item , editorial or article in relation to the personal character and con 
duct of respondent No. 2 was published in Maratha during the election period 
with his consent or knowledge . In his cross -examination he was asked the 
various questions about his belief when he was in the witness box in relation 
to the various things stated or published in these news items, cartoons edi 
torlals etc . and he stated that he did not believe that respondent No, 2 collected 
election funds by threats or coercion , that he did not believe as true the state 
ment that respondent No . 2 provided lacs of rupees as bribe to supporters of 
Goa to keep Goa as a part of the Centrally administered territory , that he dla 
not believe that Shiv Sena was creation of respondent No. 2 or Sadashiv 
Sena or any Şena belonging to him , that he did not believe that respondent 
No . 2 was at any time the agent of America or hired agent of American Capt- . 
Halist or a Dada of Capitalists . He was unable to say whether respondent 
No . 2 could be described as Najibkhan of Maharashtra as he did not know who 
Najibkhan was. He did not believe that respondent No, 2 Indulged in any 
acts of violence or engaged Goondas ; he did not believe that any Goondas 
were set free and placed at his disposal ; he did not believe that respondent 
No. 2 would change ballot boxes with a view to win the election . In short , 
when his attention was drawn to the various items and statements contained 
tn these publications, he deposed that he did not believe those statements in 
relation to the personal character of respondent No. 2 to be true, 


The contention of respondent No . 1 is that none of these publications was 
published either with his knowledge or consent. At the stage when these 
statements were published , he had no occagion even to apply his mind and 
consider whether those statements were true or false ; that in order to consti 
tute a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) the requisite belief must be enter 
tained by the candidate at or prior to the time of publication of a false state 
ment in relation to the personal character or conduct of the candidate . His 
belief at the stage of a trial while he is in the witness box is entirely irrele 
Vant. Having regard to the nature of evidence in this case . Mr. Jethmalani 
on behalf of the petitioner was unable to say that these publications contain 
ing various false statements in relation to the personal character or conduct of 
respondert No. 2 were either seen or approved by respondent No . 1 before 
ther were published or they were otherwise brought to his notice before the 
publication . The submission on his behalf was that the Court has to consider 
what would have been the belief of respondent No. 1. if such false statement 
were shown to respondent No. 1 or were brought to his knowledge . In my 
opinion , the requisite belief on the part of resoondent No. 1 about a false 
statement in relation to personal character and conduct of respondent No. 9 
must be entertained at or prior to the time of publication of such talge 
statement. Sortinn 193 ( 4 ) contains an ingredient of mens rea and such hellef 
must exits at or prior to the time of publication . Respondent No, 1 had no 
occasion to entertain anv such boljef at or prior to the time of dublication of 
the various cartoons, articles , news Items etc . as he was not aware of their 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKAS 1800) 5 : 73 
- -- - - - = = = = - = = 

= : = : - - : - - 
contents or had no opportunity to approve them at or prior to their publica 
tion . 

If section 123 ( 4 ) , however, requires that in case of a publication by an 
agent of a returned candidate to constitutc corrupt practice, the requisite 
belief as contained in this section has to be entered by the agent then in the 
pregent case , it is Atre s belief about these publications that will be the rele 
vant l actor. Respondent No. 2 in his deposilion has stated that the various 
false statements made by Acharya Atre in his Maratha are made knowing 
them to be false . There is no other evidence in rebuttal. It, therefore, fol 
lows that at the time of publication of the statements Acharya Atre knew 
that these statements were false . 

As regards these publications in Maratha , the last point to be considered 
is whether these publications are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prog 
pects of election of respondent No . 2 . A number of facts exists in the present 
case , which go to show that these publications are reasonably calculated to 
prejudice the prospects of the election of respondent No. 2 . These publica 
tions show that there was a persistent propaganda between December 12 , 
1966 and February 20 , 1967, that is right upto the eve of the polling day ; that 
these statements dealt with a variety of subjects and made false accusations 
against the personal character and conduct of respondent No. 2 ; he is accused 
of collecting funds by extortion or coercion , he is alleged to have bribed lacs 
of rupees to aflect the result of Goa Poll; he is described as a creator of 
Shiv Sena ; he is described as the hired agent of American capitalist ; he is 
accused of indulging in various acts of Goondaism ; he is described as Najibkhan 
of Maharashtra ; he is accused of exchanging ballot boxes with a view to win 
elections ; hc is charged with having a hand in engineering riots at Delhi; 
he is alleged to have exercised his influence in relation to the refusal of 
penfit for holding public meetings. Some of these news items are repeated 
more than once during the short period . Reference to his asscciation with 
Shiv Sena is to be found thrice within a period of 10 days between January 
20, 1987 and February , 1968. His description as the American Capitalist s 
agent is also to be found thrice ; Wild and rockless allegations suggesting that 
he is indulging in acts of Goondaism are made on four occasions. These 
statements are published through the mediuni 01 a newspaper which has a 
fairly good circulation . The petitioner in his cvidence has said that Daily 
Maratha enjoys wide circulation throughout Maharashtra and especially in 
Bombay and the area of Bombay South Parliamentary Constituency . Maratha 
has a daily circulation of about 62,000 to about 70 ,000 of copies; that during 
the time of election , the circulation was more. As a spicy newspaper , it is 
not only read by an individual but it is read over in a group . The object of pub 
lishing these statements was quite obvious, namely , to affcct the chances of 
election of respondent No. 2 at the poll, These factors go to show that the publi 
cations were reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of elections of . 
respondent No . 2 . 

The result , therefore , is that in this case there is no evidence that at or 
prior to the time of publication of thesc news items, cartoons etc ., respondent 
No. 1 believed them to be false or did not believe them to be true. No corrupt 
practice is therefore committed by publication thereof. If, however, the 
requisits helief that is required to be entertained is that of a publisher, when 
it is published by an agent, then there is no doubt that a corrupt practice 
within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of the Act is committed by Acharya 
Atre as the agent of respondent No. 1 by publishing these various news Items, 
cartoons etc. in his newspaper Maratha . 

The next cuestion that arises for consideration is whether the election of 
respondent No. 2 is affected by the mere commission of a corrupt practice by 
Atre as agent of respondent No. 1, Thc commission of a mere corrupt prac 
tice by an agent of the returned candidate does not ipso facto render the 
election of respondent No. 1 void or entitle the Court to declare it void . Sec 
tior 100 of the Act lays down the grounds for declarin the election to be 
void . For the purposes of the present case, only two of the clauses of sub 
sectio7 ( 1 ) of this section are relevant. They are clauses ( b ) and ( d ) ( ii ) of 
secti : 100 ( 1 ) . These sections are as under :-- 

" 100, Grounds for declaring election to bc void . 
( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) if the High Court is 

of opinion , 
( a ) . . . 


$ 177 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 PART II 


( b ) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned 

candidate or his election agent or by any other person with 

the consent of a returned candidate or his clection agent; or 
( c ) . . . 
( d ) that the result of the election , in so far as it concerns a return 
ed candidate , has been materially affected 

interests of the 
( ii ) by any corrupt practice committed in the 
returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent, or 

( li) 
( iii ) . . . . . 

( iv ) 
the High Court shall declare the clection of the returned candidate to 

be yoid ." 
It is necessary to consider whether any of these grounds exist in the present 
case for declaring the election to be void , 

To satisfy the requirement of the ground contained in clause (b ) it has to 
be established that the corrupt practice has been committed ( 1 ) by a returned 
candidate, or ( 2 ) his election agent , o ( 3 ) by any other person with the consent 
of a returned candidate or his election agent. 

The argument on behalf of the Petitioner is that when a corrupt practice 
is committed by ar. agent of a returned candidate, the Court shall presume consent 
until the contrary is proved , that the burden lies upon the returned candidate 
to show that neither he nor his election agent consented to the commission of 
a corrupt practice by the agent. Reliance was placed by the petitioner upon 
several decisions. In Anjaneva Reddy Vs . Gangi Reddy & others ( 1960 ) XXI 
Election Law Reports , 247, the Mysore High Court took the view that under 
Bections 100 and 123 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, as amended 
in 1956 , corrupt practices committed by agents of the candidate (other than 
election agetns) do not stand on the same footing as corrupt practices com 
mitted by " other persons" . The words " any other person with the consent 
of a returned candidate or his election agent" in section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) should be 
held to comprehend two clauses of persons, viz ., ( i ) an agen ! " . whose actions 
are deemed to have been consented to by a candidate , and ( il) other persons 
whose actions are in fact consented to by a candidate or his clection agent; 
for, once a person has acted as an " agent" in an election , he must be deemed 
to have acted with the consent of the candidate , and such an interpretation 
alone attach some meaning t . section 100 ( 2 ) which has been retained by the 
Amendment Act of 1956 . Sub -section ( 2 ) of section 100 is a proviso to section 
100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and not to section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( it) , and its effect is that if a corrupt 
practice is committed by an agent (who must be deemed to have acted with 
the consent of the candidate ) the election need not be set aside if the conditions 
mentioned in section 100 ( 2 ) are proved. It is not proper to regard section 
100 ( 2 ) as having been retained in the statute by an oversight of the Legisla 
ture . The Amendment Act 58 of 1958 has not merelv clarified the mcaning 
of section 100 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) as amended in 1956 , but has materially altered the 
law with respect to corrup : practice committed by agents other than election 
agents . Under the Act as amended in 1958 , it a " corrupt practice" is com 
mitted by the candidate or his elec ion agent or by any other person with the 
consent of the candidate or his election agent, then it would fall within the 
mischief of section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and if it is coinmitted by an agent of the return 
ed candidate other than his election agent, then it would come within the 
ambit of section 100 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( ii ) ; but even if the result of the election of the 
returned candidate has been materially affected by any corrupt practice ( in 
ordinary parlance ) committed in the interests of the returned candidate , the 
election cannot be set aside. if it is committed by persons, other than those 
mentioned in sections 100 ( 1 ) ( h ) and 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( li ) . The amandment of 1958 
has not however removed all the anomalies that exist. 

An appeal from this decision was filed in the Supreme Court and the decision 
of the Supreme Court was reported in Gangi Reddy vs. Anjaneva Reddy ( 1960 ) 
XXII Election Law Reports , 261. This question , however , was not considered 
In the appeal and the appeal was disposed of on other grounds. 

To the same effect is the view taken by the Assam High Court in Nani 
Gopal v . Abdul Hamid , AIR 1959 Assam p . 200 . In that case, Sarjoo Prasad 
C . J . While dealing with the question of consent of a corrupt practice com 
mitted by an agent observed at p . 203 : It is common knowledge that in elec 
tlong many strangers start taking interest, who have directly no concern with 


SEC , 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5175 

- = - = = = = * = = = - = - - = = 
the candidates or their election agents and have never been asked to do any 
thing on their behalf in furtherance of their clection . Such persons are in 
the position of more intermeddiers or sympathisers and the candidate for his 
election agent will have no responsibility for anything done by them , even 
If the act is done with a view to advance the prospect of the candidate s erec 
tion or results in some advantabc to him , unless it is shown that the candidate 
or his election agent had given his express or implied consent to the act in 
question or had knowingly taken the benefit of his conduct at the time. The 
case, however , of an " agent who has been proved to be regularly working 
for the candidate during the election , stands on a somewhat different footing . 
In his case , approval or consent to any act done by him to promote the candi 
date s election is implied . Where , therefore, corrupt practice in the course 
of the election proceedings is attributed to an " agent" , it raises a strong pre 
sumption that it was done at the instance or with the express or implied consent 
of the candidate himself. The candidate is himself vicariously responsible for 
the act and conduct oť his " agent" during the election , 


An appeal was preferred to the Supreme Court against this decision and the 
decision of the Supreme Court is reported in Abdul Hamid Chaudhary y . Nani 
Gopal ( 1960 ) XXII Election Law Reports , 353 . This question , however , was not 
deciúco vy the Supreme Court . 


The view taken by Surjoo prosad C . J. in Nani Gopal s case is followed by 
him in the case of Inder Lall v . Lal Singh , AIR 1961 Rajasthan 122 . At p . 127 
it is pointed out: The Tribunal appears to be in error in thinking that express 
consent oſ the contesting respondent had to be proved before he could be held 
liable for the acts of the General Secretary of the District Congress Committee 
or the Publicity Secretary of the Nagar Congress Committee ; and since there 
was no direct evidence on the point that Sugan Chand Jain was appointed an 
agent in writing by the respondent No. 1 or orally in the presence of any person , 
the Tribunal held that the said respondent could not be responsible for the acts 
of those persons. This , in our opinio ! , is a complete misconception of the legal 
principle , and we rcgret to have to say that the Tribunal did not properly appre 
ciate the decision . Which was delivered by me as the Chief Justice of the High 
Court of Assam in Nani Gopal Swami v . Abdul Hamid Choudhury . A ( R 1959, 
Assam 200 , on which , as the Tribunal obseryes , both parties re ied before it , The 
High Court further took the view that the District Congress Committee Chittor 
garh and the Nagar Congress Committce there with their Secretaries and publi 
. city Secretary were all agents of the contining respondent Shri Lal Singh . It 
further observed : “ Therefore , it must be held that the publicationg in this case 
were by the agents of the repoudent No. 1 and we cannot believe that respon 
dent No, I was un var all aing about the Activities of Sugan Chand who was 
mainly responsible for the work of publicity on his behalf and in respect of his 
candidature . The law provides that in such cases - unless any of the exceptions 
mentioned in the sub - section ( 2 ) of s . 100 of the Act are lounit to 
exist, the Tribunal should assume that the returned candidate was guilty of 
corrupt practice by his agct ind declare the election void ." The High Court, 
however , on ile tacts of the case took th : view that the impugned publication 
was not an attack on the personal character of the candidate and , therefore, no 
oorrupt practice was committe l. It accordingly confirmed the finding of the 
Election Trial that the election could not be set aside though on different 
grounds 


An appeal was prefererl gainst this decision to the Supreme Court and the 
decision of the Supreme Court is reported in Inde Lal v . Lal Singh , ATR 1982 
S . C . 1156 . The Supreme Court did not agree with the view takim sy the High 
Court that the Impugned publication was not in relation to 
and conduct of the candidate . This was thy tini . . o the 

o the personal character 
Court. It allowed the appeal and helnii * * ** ly point argued before the Supreme 
must be declared to be invalid 

what the clection of the returned candidato 
reme Court obserycu : T - .. U11 para 15 of the judgment at p . 1160 , the Sup 
Court that pubita " - the result, we must, reverse the finding of the High 
practice un - ation of the impugned pamphlets does not constitute a corrupt 
the el . er . 123 ( 4 ) . The result of this conclusion inevitably is that 

. . . ction of respondent No. 1 must be declared to be invalid because there is 
no doubt that the corrupt practice proved in this case talls under s . 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) 
and is outside the purview of s . 100 ( 2 ) . 


5176 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART 1[-- .. 

= :- . - = - = 
In view of these observations, Mr, Jethmalani has strenuously urged that 
by declaring the election to be void , the Supreme Court has come to the con 
clusion thut the findings as regards the other ingredients of this corrupt practice 
are confirmed by it and it has been impliedly held that in case of a corrupt pruc 
tice committed by an agent, consent is presumed . Such a contention appears to 
me to be rather far fetched . Th qucstion whether in a case of corrupt practice 
by an agent, consent of the candidate is presumed or not was neither argued . 
before nor decided in this case , by the Supreme Court . In the entire judgment, 
there is no discussion on such a contention and simply because the election of 
the returned candidate was held to be void , it is not possible to infer that the 
other findings of the High Court are confirmed , as the correctness thereof was. 
not challenged before their Lordships. 

The above decision of the Mysore High Court, the Assam High Court and 
the Rajasthan High Court do support the subinissions urged by Mr. Jethmalan 
that in case of corrupt practice committed by an agent, the consent of a returned 
candidate is deemed to have given . This question is , however, considered in 
several cases arising before other High Courts including this Court . In Sudhir 
Laamna Hendre v . S , A , Dange & Ors . XVII Election Law Reports 373, the Divi 
sion Bench of this Court has taken the view contrary to the onc urged by 
Mr. Jethmalani. In that case , the Court took the view that Atre was the agent 
of the successful candidate and that Atre by publishing certain false state 
ments in relation to the personal character of the unsuccessful candidate , 
had committed El corrupt practice within the mcaning of section 123 ( 4 ) . 
After arriving at this Anding , the Court considered the further question whe 
ther Atre in publishing the impugned statement had either implied or express 
consent of the returned candidate or his election agents. As there was no evi 
dence to support the contention that there was an express or implied consent of 
the returned candidate to the publication by Atre as agent, the Court held that 
election of the returned candidate cannot be set aside under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) of 
the Act. This decision , therefore, clearly establishes that even in the case of a cor 
rupt practice committed even by an agent and falling within the ambit of s . 123 
( 4 ) the consent of the returned candidate or his election agent is further requir 
ed in order to satisfy the requirements of the ground under 3, 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and if 
such consent either cxpress or implied , of the returned candidate is not establi 
shed , then the election cannot be declared void . This being the decision of the 
Division Bench of this Court is binding on me. 

Several other High Courts have taken a view similar to that one taken by 
the Bombay High Court in thc above case . In Rustom Satin v . Dr. Sampoord 
nand & Ors. ( 1959 ) XX Election Law Reports ,, 221 , the Allahabad High Court took 
the view that with regard to the workers appointed as such by a candidate him 
self or his election agent, even though the candidate (or his election agent) might 
have consented to their canvassing and working for him and he had also know 
ledge thereof, and such genrral consent and knowledge may 
make such persons agents of the candidate for the purposes of sec 
tion 123 of the Act in view of the Explanation I thercof, this would not be suf 
cicnt to have the election set aside unless it is further alleged and proved that 
the corrupt practices complained of were themselves committed with the consent 
Or knowledge of the candidate , in vicw of the provisions contained in section : 
100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii) . 

Similar view is also taken by the same High Court _ in the casc of Jagan 
Rawat v . Krishna Dutt Paliwal ( 1959) XX Election Law Reports . 443. Same is 
the view of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Sarla Devi Pathak v . Birendra 
Singh & Ors., ( 1959 ) XX Election L , R 275 ; of the Madras Fligh Court in M . A . 
Muthiah Chattiar v . Saw . Ganesan , ( 1960 ) XX Election L , R . 215 at n . 216 ; of 
Assam High Court in Biswanath v . Haralal Das, AIR 1958 Assam 97 ; of Rajas 
than High Court in Krishna Kurnar v . Krishn , Gopal, AIR 1964 Rajasthan 21 ; 
of the Kerala High Court in Abdul Majeed v . Bhargavan , AIR 1963 Kerala 18 ; . 
and of the Gujarat High Court in Lalsing v . Vallabhdas , AIR 1963 62 . 

It may incidentally be mentioned that the above decision of the Assam High 
Court In Biswanath Upadhyaya s case is _ cited with approval by K , K . Desai J . 
in an unreported case of Dattatraya vs. Dattatrajja , ( Election Petition No. 1 of 
1987 decided on 11th , 14th and 18th of August 1967 ) as laying down he cor 
rect legal principles . That also is the decision of the Court of co -ordinate juris 
diction and I am bound to follow it. Thus even in case of a corrupt practice 
committed by an agent of a returned candidate falling within the ambit of 8 . 
123 (4 ) of the Act, it is necessary to establish the consent of the returned can 
didate ti the commission of such corrupt practice before the clcction can be 


51077 
Suc . 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963/ KARTIKA 25 . 1890 

-- - -- - = = - = 
-- - - .. - - 
declared void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Act. It is not disputed that such 
conscnt can either be express cr implica . The aigumcnt on behalf of the peti 
lioner is that the consent of a leturned candidate to an act of publication need 
not be a specific consent with full knowledge of the words, lines and expression 
used in the publication , that acquiescence in continued propaganda by a person , 
lonown for his propensity to speak lies , or to use spicy language and material 
wiihout factual substance is itriplied consent, that it two persons form a design 
or conspire that one of them shall carry on false propaganda then all false pro 
paganda carried on thereafter with their consent, that such a submission applies 
with greater force to publications in Maratha after February 5 , 1987 and that 
even it the standard of proof is required is higher than the one required in a 
civil case, the circumstantial evidence in this case is more than adequate to esta 
blish such implicd consent. 

While considering this contention , it is necessary to understand what the 
word " consent" implies . The mcaning of the word " consent is given in Whal 
tons Law Lexicon ; is an act of reason accompanied will deliberation the mind 
weighing , as in a balance the good or evil on cither side . Consent supposes 
three things a physical power, a mental power and a free and serious use of 
them ." Thus in order to establish consent, the above requirements must be ful 
nlled and it is only thereafter that a corrupt practice can be said to have been 
committed with the consent of a returned candidate . 

In the present case , it is not the petitioner s case that he has established an 
actual conversation or correspondence betwechi Alre and Respondent No. 1 asking 
him to publish these yarious scurrilous writings . It is his contention that he has 
established implied consent by circumstantial evidenee, which is conclusive ; that 
implied consent is of two kinds ( a ) that it may be held implicit in the very 
relationship that exists between the parties and ( b ) that which consists of mere 
connivance . The submission is that respondent No. 1 and Atre conspired to damage 
respondent No. 2 s election prospects , that if this conspiracy is established every 
conspirator impliedly consents to all the overtacts done in pursuance of a cons 
piracy ; that in some cases , cspecially cases of isolated or stray cases of corrupt 
practice , the Court may require evidence of knowledge of the actual practice. 
but it is by no means necessary or essential; that implied consent can be inferred 
from the mere fact that corrupt practice had been repeated openly on a number 
of occasions, more so when , those repeated acts are done by the agent, 

Reliance was placed upon the decision of the Rajasthan High Court in Sheo 
patsing vs . Narishchandra , AIR 1958 Rajasthan 324 . This was a case of a corrupt 
practice of carrying the votels in mechanically propelled vehicles by the agents 
of the returned candidate to the polling booth , In this case the knowledge of the 
returned candidate was implied from the numerous instances in which voters 
were carried in mechanically propelled yehicles by the agents to the polling 
booth , and from such knowledgc implied congent was inferred . At p . 332, it is 
said : From the numerous instances in which voters were carried in mechanically 
propelled vehicles by the agents of the appellant some of whom were quite close 
to him , we are of the opinion that the appellant could not have been unaware of 
this transport of his voters by mechanically propelled vehicles and did nothing 
to stop it . We accordingly infer that they were so carried with his implied con 
sent. The facts of this case shows that one of the vehicles in which the voters 
were carried was actually procured by the candidate himself while other vehi 
cles were procured by agents , who were his very close relatives . 

An appeal was preferred against this decision to the Supreme Court and the 
decision of the Supreme Court is reported in Sheopatsing v , Narishchandra , AIR 
1960 S . C . 1217 . The Supreme Court held that : Where a candidate after getting 
knowledge of the act of corrupt practice ( conveyance of voters to the poli) on a 
polling day docs not prohibit the regular repetition of similar acts on the follow 
ing polling days, it is reasonable inference to draw that all the acts were com 
mitted not haphazard but by design and that the candidate must have consented 
to them . It also observed that a finding that the acts were done with the candi 
date s consent is one of the fact. This decision points out that before consent 
can be reasonably inferred it is necessary to establish that the candidate had 
knowledge of the act of corrupt practice . It will always depend upon the facts 
of each case whether such knowledge is established and consent should be in 
ferred . 


The other decision relied upon is the decision of the Supreme Court in Bhag 
wan Datta V . Ram Ratanji AIR 1960 S . C . 200 . This also wag a case of corrupt 


$ 178 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1900 /KARTIKA 2:2 , 1890 ¡ Partile 
- = - = - = = - = = - . - = - = - = - : - - - 

- - - = - = - : = = - - 
practice committed by carrying the voters to polling stations in trucks belonging 
to a party of the candidate . This case does not lay down any general principle 
and appears to have been decided on the evidence in the case . The ratio or the 
case is to be found in para 13 , It states ; - On this evidence it cannot be said 
that the Election Tribunal was not justified in holding that the carrying of the 
votely to the polling station in the trucks of Achulanand was with the anni 
vance of the appellant, who was a party candidate. That by itself would be 
enough to bring his case within 8 . 123 ( ) of the Act. It is not unreasonable to 
impuie lo the candidate the knowledge of the work done by his party in this 
area and to impute the consequent connivance on his part , 

Both these cases are cases of carrying the voters to the polling booth in me 
challically propelled vehicles and the consent of the candidate was implied after 
the knowledge of the candidate to the commission of the corrupt practice is 
established , The fact that a corrupt practice has been repeatedly commiiled is 
undoubtedly a factor to be borne in mind along with other factors to arrive at 
the conclusion whether the returned candidate nu knowledge of the Commis 
sion of the corrupt praclice or impliedly consented thereto , It was then argued , 
having regard to the general principle of agency thai an 24 of an agent is irrouted 
to his master and that knowledge or consent is implied from mere appointment. 
Reference was made to the decision in Emperor y . Huji Shailc Vichumud i 27stri 
I. L ., R . ( 1908 ) 32 Bombay , 10 . This was a case of a prosecution for contravention 
of the provisions of the Emigration Act (Act No. XXI of 1983 ) . The Couri hold 
that if a servant having been appointed as an agent for a particular bus ncss by 
his master, cntcrs into an agreement in coonection with that business hory 
thing which he does within the scope of his employment for that pirpose will be 
binding upon the master and the master will be criminally liable for such act of 
the servant under the Indian Emigration Act (XXI of 1883 ) . In such a case the 
master s express knowledge of or consent to the act is not necessary, ccluse 
by the very fact of the appointment of the servant as an agent in such a business 
the master s knowledge of or consent to every act done by the servant or agent 
within the scope of his employment is implied by law . 

This decision proceeds upon the normal principles of civil law of agency in 
holding master vicariously liable for the acts of the agent. It can , however, have 
no application to cases of election agency , Under election law , a man may be 
regarded as agent if he is held to have been authorised to canvass even though 
he is neither cmployed nor appointed , Under the election law , the relation is not 
the common law relation of principal and agent. The candidate may be respons 
sible for acts of persons acting on his behalf though such acts are beyond the 
scope of the authority given or even in violation of express injunction . That 
being the position of election agency , this case cannot be of much assistance. 


It is necessary to consider the various factors which are referred to for con 
tending that there is the implied consent. The first factor relied upon is that the 
propensity of Atre , the agent, is such that it may imply consent. Respondent 
No. 1 has admitted in his evidence that Maratha tries to tell many of the spicy 
stories in which there is no substance. There is tendency with newspaper 
Maratha to put cverything against respondent No . 2 where he might have said 
anything against Congress . This respondent No. 1 found espccialy in the con 
text of his election . The submission is that this knowledge of evil propensity of 
Maratha should imply consent. There is no warrant for inferring consent simply 
because this is the pronunity of Maratha . Even in the past elections, i. e., in the 
years 1957 and 1962 Marath12 campaignert vigorously for the candidates of Sam 
yukta Maharashtra Samitſ against respondent No. 2 but the nature of the propa 
ganda carried on by Maratha in these earlier elections is not known, Respon 
dent No. 1 was unable to say whether any falsc statements in relation to the 
personal character or conduct of respondent No. 2 were made at these elections. 
Respondent No. 1 himself addressed about 4 to 5 hundred election 
meetings but did not indulge in personal attack on respondent No. 2 . At the 
time when he inaugurated his campaign on August 9 , 1966 , he made it amply 
clear that in his campaign , he would not say anything of personal nature against 
respondent No. 2 . He also made a suggestion that both the candidates would come 
on the same platform and discusg about the problems facing the country . A 
report of this speech inaugurating his election campaign is published in the issue 
of Maharashtra Times dated August 10 , 1966 ( Ex . 200 ) . This report is proyed by 
the evidence of Ranadive. Even during the election period when respondent 
No . 1 wrote a letter dated February 7 , 1967 ( Ex . 67 ) to respondent No. 2 for bring 
ing to his notice some incidents of breach of decency in electioneering, he also 


- 


- - 


- 


SBC . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5179 
-- -- -- - - - ..: - - - - = - . : 

- - - - - - - - - - - - . = 
machine a suggestion that Saryodaya Mandal should supervise clcctioneering by all 
candidatcs in Bonibay Souch constituency , and that bot Ol bilem should undertake 
joint campaigns, On occasions woon respondent No. 1 and Atre were on the 
same piattorm , it is not even the case of the petitioner that Atre utilised those 
Occas ons volnake any personal attack against respondent No. 2 . Respondent No. 
1 and time jointly audiessed iacetings on December 25 , 1966 and January 31, 
1907 9 : Siilvajl Park , Tliey also jointly addressed meetings at Colaba and at 
Wouli. At inone of these ingetings was any personal attack made by Atrc in re 
lution to the personal characice or conduct of respondent No. 12 . Simply be 
cause Maratha is a newspaper of a spicy naiulie , it cannot be inferred that res 
pondent No , 1 11 : 1plicity consented to whatever propagandu Acharya Atre car 
ried on through his newspaper Maratha . 


The argument then was tliet respondent No . 1 is a VOLTOUS l ender and was 
In thie babit of rea .. . critically it ! 10 tie pape s , ITA 1951, therefore , have 
read or become aware o various pubidaatioit , näve iil daratna willen äre reiicd . 
upon its instances of corrupt practice by Acharya Atre . 


The vidence with regard to this contention shows ihat the office ot the Bom 
bay laboll, Union , of which respondent No . 1 19 and ng been the President, 19 
located at 204 Raja Kamruhan Huy Houd , that the oftics of other important 
Unons a : e also iocated to , that at that office arrang :11cut was made to rc 
ceive all 13W5pipers that are publish in Bombay . So iso , at the Thakurdwar 
election office o respondent No. 1 certain newspapers were received . Such news 
papers injght have been broui it by the people W119 visito: tutti ofiice ( they 
mignt llave been resutari., Com ] ng to that otice , in the report Ex, X - 12 ; of the 
interview given to the represcicaute of weekly Manys it is staled that respondent 
No. I really all daily new SPD !!!TS Curau ly and critically . Respndent No . 1 himself 
has given evidence about his abil or reading newspapers . He said that he used 
to read a lot beforc eloction campaign started . It is substantially right to say 
that he educated himself by reading vigorously . It is not even substantially cor 
rect to say that he used to read mujor daily papers critically . He read Indian 
Express daily for his news. He then went through the Times of India and glanc 
ed through other newspapers . In Economic Times and Financial Express he 
used to read carefully those items which inte. ested him . If there was anything 
special in other newspapers to which his attention was drawn then he used to go 
through it. At his office , i. e . at 204 Raja Rammohan Roy Road, he used to glance 
through all the newspapers that were published in Bombay including Maratha . 
He admitted taat that office was à rcgular subscriber of all these newspapers 
including Maratha , As regards the statement published in Ex . X - 12 , he stated that 
in the course of the interview he did not state that he used to read all daily 
newspapers carefully and critically . 


This evidence gives an idea of the normal schedule of respondent No. 1 apart 
from the election period . The evidance , however, shows that this normal sche 
dule was completely departed from during the election period . Respondent No. 1 
In his evidence - in - chirl has dcposed about the heavy schedule that he had 
during the election time. He said that during clection time he hardly 
read any newspaper . The only rewspaper he used to glance through 
was Indian Express because hy force of habit, that was the paper which 
he read first thing in the morning . In the last three months of the election cam 
paign , it was not possible to read the paper Indian Express. The most that he 
could do was to read the headlines and if anything particular interested him , 
he used to glance through that thing. During the last three months of his clec 
tion campaign , he had a very heavy schedule , Sometime from November 1966 he 
began visiting his constituency in the morning . He used to take his round by 
about 7 of 7 - 30 A . M . because by 9 A . M . people used to go out to their work , 
Tliereafter he used to have group meetings in different localities till about grinch 
time. After lunch time he used to have meetings with his important workers 
in various parts of his constituency . From alout 4 P . M . Froud meetings used to 
tegin and by about 5 or 5 - 30 P . M . public meetings used to start , Public meetings 
used to go on generally up to about 2 A . M ., sometimes eyon upto 4 A . M , This used 
to be his daily schedule . In this schedule it was not possible to go through minu 
tely any n ?wspaper , not even one newspaper . During the elctlon prion , he did 
not read Maratha at all. He might have gone through a hcadline in Maratha at 
any constituent s place when he visited ; He said that he had no connection with 
Atre s nowspaper Maratha either during the election time or at any other period . 
He has also deposed that during the election time he was very busy with his 


5180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II- . 


campaign . In fact during the last three months of the campaign , he must have 
hardly visited his office at 204 Raja Rammohan Roy Road , 

That such ordinarily will be the position of a candidate at the election when 
the contesting candidates from a particular constituency are important and lead 
ing politicians is also evident from the evidence of respondent No. 2 himself. 
Respondent No. 2 in his evidence said that his Secretary used to keep the cutt 
ings of Maratha on his table during the time of the election period , but he hard 
ly had time to go through such cuttings. During the election period , he did not 
go through every cutting that was placed before him . He might have gone 
through some of them , Election is not the time when the candidate has the time 
to go through every cutting. During the election period , his attention was drawn 
to some of the issues of Maratha which are tendered in this case and gometimes 
he was orally informed of what was published in some of the scurrilous articles 
but he had no time to go through these issues , 

Having regard to this evidence , it is not possible to conclude that during the 
election period , respondent No. 1. read or glanced through the issueg of Maratha 
wherein the various publications were made . 

It was then urged on behalf of the petitioner that respondent No. 1 had lett 
his publicity to be looked after by his colleagues Satav and Dinkar Sakrikar , 
who was his election agent. Satav is also instructing his legal advisers in the 
matter of this election petition . It is submitted that respondent No, 1 must have 
come to know of these various publications in Maratha through Satay or Sakri 
kar . It was also said that during the period of the election campaign , respondent 
No. 1 was from time to time interviewed by correspondents of several newspa . 
pers and that such correspondents must have brought to his notice the various 
statements that were published in the various issues of Maratha now referred to . 
To say the least , this is mere conjecture and surmise . There is no evidence to war 
rant such a submission , 
. The last circumstance relied upon was that there must have been a cons 
piracy between respondent No : 1 and Atre to carry on joint and vigorous pro 
paganda against respondent No, 2 through the columns of Maratha . 

The only pieces of evidence referred to to support such a plea of conspiracy 
are Iso ated instances that had taken place during the course of election campaign . 
It is said that both Acharya Atre and respondent No. 1 in the course of their 
election campaign referred to sometimes the same phrase in their utterance or 
publication , Reference was only made to the use of the phrase " code of conduct" 
in the news item (Ex , X -31) published in the issue of Maratha dated February 
8 , 1967 and the use of that phrase by respondent No. 1 at a press conference 
held at Bristol Grill Restaurant on February 9 , 1967. In the news item ( Ex . X - 31) 
It is reported that respondent No. 2 has started ignoring the code of conduct and 
has gone to the extent of attacking the workers of opposition candidates while 
at the press conference at Bristol Grill Restaurant respondent No . 1 said that the 
action of respondent No. 2 s supporters in tampering with the posters affixed by 
his supporters was against the code of conduct accepted by the political parties . 
No doubt, in Ex . X -31 as well as at the press conference reference is made to the 
code of conduct , but that by itself leads us to no where . It is a common phrase 
and is normally used to express a kind of behaviour that would be expected at 
a given point of time, 

It was then said that both in Ex - 31 as well as at the time of the press con 
ference, false stories about acts of Goondolsm were circulated. In Ex . X -31 refe 
rence is made to assault on Bhaskar Shetty and his co -workers , while at the 
press conference respondent No. 1 referred to incidents of stone throwing and as 
saults on his workers . During the course of his evidence lie was asked about the 
names of the persons he had in mind and he has specifind the names of about 4 
persons like Barkva Dada. Chunilal Lumba and others. Whether these stories are 
correct or false , it is difficult to fudge. In Ex . X -31 reference is made to the 
source of information from which the material was gathered . It is stated that a 
complaint of the Gundagiri mentioned above was lodged at the Azad Maidan 
Police Station , but so far, none was arrested by the Police. In the present case , 
the Commissioner of Police and other officers from the police department have 
been examined as witnnages on behalf of the petſtioner, but to none of them a 
question has been asked whether a complaint of the type mentioned in BX , AO! 
WAS lodged at the Azad Maidan Police Station as therein stated . So far ag the 
statements at the press conference are concerned , I have already held that the 


Sac. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVENBER 16 , 1968 / KARIKA 25 , 1820 9181 
= = - . -. - - - - - - - --- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- ... - .- . - 

- - - - 
statement that convicts were rcleased i. parole or that externees were allowed 
to return or that execution of orders against externees was stayed in order to ena 
ole inem to participate in Congress election campaign is a false statement, but 
whetner there were incidents of stone throwing or assault on the workers present 
at the clection meetings cannot be decided on the nature of the evidence on 
record . The evidence, however , establishes that neither Barkya Dada nor Chuni 
Lal Lumba was a convict or an externce who was permitted to participate in the 
election campaign on behalf of the Congress, 


Then reference is made to the fracture suffered by Mr. Babubhai Chinai and 
the benef of respondent No, 1 and Maratna at one time thut this story of fracture 
being sufered by Babubhai Chinai was fake story . Reference is also made to 
the evidence of respondent No. 1 that on one day during the election period late 
at night some persons posing themselves to be the workers of the Telephone 
Department came to his house when in fact there was no complaint lodged 
with the Telephone Department. The submission was that by circulating such 
a story , respondent No. 1 intended to create an impression amongst the public 
that there was some apprehensions to his life . It was urged that similar views were 
expressed by Acharya Atre in Ex . X - 36 in Maratha dated February 17 , 1967 
wherein reference is made to a Central Cabinet Minister being involved in the 
merciless attack on Madhu Limaye in Bihar . It was also pointed out that both res 
pondent No. 1 as well as Atre during the course of election propaganda refer 
red to association of respondent No. 2 with Shiv Sena . Reference was also made 
to respondent No. 2 being described as Najeebkhan of Maharashtra in an article 
written by one Ş . M . Purkar and published in the issue of Maratha (Ex . X - 24 ) . 
While respondent No. 1 in his evidence stated that during the time of his elec 
tion campaign he used to point out that respondent No, 2 betrayed the interest 
of Maharashtra at the time of the formation of Samyukta Maharashtra and that 
Shiv Sena mainly carried on propaganda against him on the ground that he was 
not a Maharashtrian . It was also pointed out that a postcard received by res 
pondent No . 1 from the Secretary of Jagadguru Shankaracharya thanking him 
for condemning the arrest of Jagadguru was published in the issue of Maratha . 
It was also pointed out that in the articles under the heading "Gcorge Fernan 
des Election Front" reference was to be found to the various statements made 
by respondent No. 1 in the three articles written by him and published in the 
issues of Biltz , viz ., Ex . 62 and Ex , 63. It was said on behalf of the petitioner 
that these circumstances showed that there was a design or conspiracy between 
respondent No . 1 and Acharya Atre to carry on false propaganda against res 
pondent No. 2 through the columns of Maratha that such false propa 
ganda was carried on on a number of occasions during the election period and , 
therefore, consent of respondent No. 1 to such false propaganda must be presum 
ed . These circumstances, in my opinion , are too slender to come to the conclusion 
that there was a design or conspiracy between Acharya Atre and respondent No. 1 
to carry on false propaganda against respondent No. 2 . Some of the factors re 
ferred to are merely common fuctors which are normally referred to at an clec 
tion campaign . Consent requires that the two persons shou d agree to the same 
thing in the same sense , There is no cvidencc to prove such agreement bet 
ween Acharya Atre and respondent No, I to carry on false propaganda against 
respondent No. 2 . As pointed out earlier , consent requires an act of reason ac 
companied with deliberation , the mind weighing as in a balance the good or evil 
on either side. Consent supposes threr things: physical power , mental power , 
and a free and serious use of them . The factors above referred to do not cgta 
blish that there was any common design or conspiracy to work against respon 
dent No . 2 or they consented to false propaganda being carried out against res 
pondent No . 2 through the columns of Maratha . 


The same standard of proof that is required for establishing a corrupt practice 
is also required for establishing consent of the candidate under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) 
before an election can be declared vold In Lalsing Keshrsing Rehvor v . Vallabh 
das Shankerlal Thekdi and others , A . I. R . 1967 Gujarat A9 
Mlabhoy . J . rejected an argument that an enquiry under sec 
tion 123 is of a quasi criminal nature but the enquiry which 
is made under clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 100 of the Act enjoining 
the determination of the question of consent of a candidate or his election Agent 
does not nartake of that character but is more or less an enquiry of a clvil na 
ture for the purpose of determining the civil question as to whether the election 
is valid or void . The Court did not agree with the distinction that was sought 


* 182 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA ? 5 , 1890 [Parri- - 
. - .--.- - . - - - - - -- - - - 
to be made. It is pointed out, there is no doubt that under the Act, the proof of 
the consent of a candidate for the commission of the corrupt practice would not 
only lead to the consequence of the elcction being declared vold , but would also 
lead in the penal consequences , such as disqualilication prescribed by section 141 
of the Act . In determining the question of consent under section 100 sub - section 
( 1 ) oi ? use ( b ) of the Act , the same standard of proof is necessary to be enforc 
ed as is required to be enforced for the purpose of determining the question of 
corrupt practice under section 123 of the Act. 

As pointed out in Biswanath s case , it is true that the consent is to be in 
forred from the circumstances and it may b ? direct or indirect . But the consent 
is a question of l act wlich will have to be established by the petitioner betore he 
gets relief under section 100 . If it can be stabilu ( rona " he circumstances that 
the candidate had knowledge of the fact that an article was going to be published 
in a newspaper and that the article contalncd certain imputations against the 
personal conduct of another candidate and it hc did not take any steps to stop 
publication , his consent to the publication may be inferred . But from the fact 
that he had knowledge of the contents subscauent to its publication , no duty is 
cast on him to go and publish some repudiation of the allegations contained in 
the publication . The consent, so as to make the act of a third party as the act of 
the candidate, should be in respect of the act of the third party ; the knowledge 
which might have legitimately led to the inference of consent would be the 
knowledge of the fact that it was going to be published Any subsequent know 
ledge of the contents of the publication cannot be relevant for the purpose of 
determining the consent of the candidate prior to the publication . 
· This principle of necessity of prior knowledge beforr consent is presumed ls 
approved by Desai, J . in Election Petition No . 1 oť 1967 above referred to . 

That this is a normal requirement when consent is required is also evident 
from the observations of Jessel, M . R . in Ex parte Ford . In re , Caughey . 1878 
1 Chancery Division 521 . While considering the prrvisions of English Bank 
ruptcy Act at page 528 the Master of the Rolls observed : " The words used in the 
Act are consent and permission , Those words imply knowledge ." You cannot 
consent to a thing unless you have knowledge of it. , 

In the case before me, there is no material evidence imputing knowledge of 
these specific publications to respondent No. 1 before they were published in 
the respective issues of Maratha . 

The cartoon ( Ex . X -27) under the heading " Capitalism " was published in the 
issue of Maratha dated January 18 , 1967 to comment upon a report of the inter 
view of respondent No. 2 published in the issue of Times of India dated January 
16 , 1967 ( Ex . 147 ) . At this intervicw respondent No. 2 expected to collect from 
industrialists about a crore of rupees for the election fund of the Congress party . . 
It was this statement which was sought to be publicly criticised by this cartoon 
published on January 18 , 1967. The time between the publication in the Times 
of India and the publication of the cartoon is so short thật one will not ordi 
narily expect respondent No. 1 to have any prior knowledge thereot before publi 
cation , 


So also , the cartoon and the poem ( Ex . X - 16 published in the issue of Maratha 
dated December 31, 1966 ) were published and written to publicly criticise , the 
speech made by respondent No. 2 before the Commerce Graduates Assoristion 
and a report of which appeared in the issue of Indian Express dated December 
30 , 1966 ( Ex , 121) . In this report respondent No . 2 is reported to have said that 
he would like a ban even on pig slaughter because Muslims do not eat pork . 
Respondent No . 2 has given evidence that he has not been prope" ly reported in 
this news itrom . The fact, however , remains that both the cartoon as well as 
the poem ( T . X - 16 ) were directed against this report published in Indian Ex 
press dated December 30 , 1966 . Ex . X - 16 is published only on the following 
day, 1. e ., December 31, 1966 . This short interval of time will go to show that 
respondent No . 1 could not have any prior knowledge of their publication . 


The publication ( Ex , X - 25 ) describing respondent No . 2 as the agent of Ame 
rican capitalists purports to be a report of a spcech alleged to be made by 
S , A . Dange and the publication of the news itcm ( Ex . X -32 ) desc ibing respon 
dent No . 2 as the hired agent of America purports to be a report of a speech 
made by Acharya Atre . These are ordinary news items ard how prior know 
ledge of such publications cannot be imputed to respondent No. 1 . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARSIKA 25, 1890 5183 
* - - - .. - - - - - - . .- = - = = = - - - - - - - - - - - 

.. - _ ..-. - = - = - : : - - -- - - - .. - - - - = - = 
The allegation about changing of ballot boxes is published in the issue of 
Maratho daton February 1, 1967 ( Ex , X - 23 ) . This purports to be a report of a 
speech made only on the previous day, i .e ., on January 31, 1967. The evidence 
shows that miceting went on till late at night. Thus there is no time left to im 
pute knowledge for such a publication to respondent No . 1 . 

The description of respondent No. 2 as Najeebkhan of Maharashtra in Ex . 
X - 94 is as a result of an article written by S . M . Purkar. In the very body of . 
the article Purkar is alleged to have described respondent No . 2 as thc Najeeb 
khah of the political and economic interest of Maharashtra. It is difficult to see 
how respondent No. 1 can be imputed prior knowledge of such a puhliration . 

Sime is the position with regard to the report of the press interview given by 
Jag:), uru Shankaracharyo . It purports to be a report of what Jagadguru Shan 
karacharya said at the press conference . This is nothing else but a mere news 
item . 

As regards the other publications also , there is no evidence to show that res 
pondent No . 1 had prior knowledge of their contents before they were pub 
lished . 


Thus even if these puhlications are regarded as corrupt practices com 
mitted by Atre as the agent of respondent No. 1 , there is no evidence to estab 
lish that they were committed with the consent of respondent No . 1 . By reason 
of these publications by Atrc. in his daily Maratha , the election of respondent 
No . 1 cannot be declared yoid . 

The question then for consideration is whether the election of respondent No . 1 
can be declared void having regard to the provisions of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) 
which says; 
100 , "Grounds for declaring election to void . 
1. Subject to the provisions of sub -section ( 2 ) If the High Court is of opsl... 

nion 
( a ) . . . . . . 
( b ) . . . . . . 
( c ) . ... .. . 
( d ) that the result of the election , in so far as it concerns a returned 

candidate , has been materially affected 
( 1 ) . . . . 
( ii ) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned 

candidate by an agent other than his election agent, 
(iil) 

(iv ) . . . . . . 
the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be 

void ," 
This provision requires that the High Court shall declare the election of the 
returned candidate to be void if ( 1 ) the result of the election , in so far as if con 
cerns a returned candidate has been materially affected , ( 2 ) by a corrupt pac 
tice committed in the interests of the returned candidate , ( 3 ) by an agent other 
than his clection agent. The last two requirements of this sub - section a e ful 
Alled . I have already held that having regard to the evidenc on record , Acharya 
Atre is the agent of respondent No . 1 as that term is understood unde " the elec 
tion law . There can also be no doubt that the various publications in Maratha 
were in the interest of respondant No . 1. In fact in one of the last publications 
on the eve of the polling day , the leading article ( Ex . X -37 ) is concluded with a 
passage : " Samiti has to perform the three - fold task of ending the corrupt Con 
gress regime, liquidating Sadobashahi ( dictatorship of Sadcba ) which is spread 
ing the reign of Coondaism and striving unceasingly for the welfare of the four 
cuore people of Maharashtra . We request all with folded hands that to ensure . . . 
success to the Samiti in this task , all the voters should with their eyes closed cast 
their votes tomorrow for all the Samiti candidates and make them successful." 


The point for determination is whether the result of the election in so far as 
it concerns respondent No. 1 , the returned candidate , has been materially affected , 
How that requirement can be fulfilled at trial in an election petition is laid down 


5184 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- -- - - ..--- 
toy the Supreme Court in Vashist Narain Sharina v . Dev Chand and others 
( 1954 - 55 ) 10 Election Law Reports 30 A . I . R . 1954 Supreme Court 313 , This 
decision related to a case of impropc acceptance of a nomination of one of the 
unsuccessful candidates and it was decided under the provisiohs or the Act as 
they existed prior to its amendment by Central Act XXVII of 1956 . At that 
time th . provisions of section 100 ( 1 ) ( c ) were , so far as the present casc is con 
cerned , similar to the provisions of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii) as it exists today . This 
case lays down that the words " the result of the election has been materially 
affected " in this clause indicate that the result should not be judged by the mere 
increase or decrease in the total number of votes secured by the returned can 
didate but by a proof of the fact that the votes would have been distributed in 
such a manner between the contesting candidates as would have brought about 
the defeat of the returned candidate . It was pointed out that the language of 
gection 100 ( 1 ) ( c ) [ corresponding to present section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) ] clearly places 
the burden of proving that the result of the election has been materially affected 
on the petitioner who impugns the validity of the clection . In that respect there 
was a departure from the provisions of thc English Act ( the Ballot Act 1872 gec 
tion 13 ) . It is also pointed out that it is impossib . e to accept the ipse dixit of 
witnesses coming from one side of the other to say that all or some of the votes 
would have gone to one or the other on some supposed or imaginery ground . 
The question is one of fact and has to be proved by positive evidence. If the 
petitioner is unable to adduco evidence , the only inescapable conclusion to which 
the Tribunal can come is that the burden is not discharged and that the clection 
must stand . The language of section 100 ( 1 ) ( C ) is too clear for any speculation 
about possibilities. The Supreme Court was conscious of the position that such 
result inay operate harshly upon the petitioner seeking to set aside the election 
but pointed out that neither the Tribunal nor the Court is concerned with the 
inconvenience resulting from the operation of the law . How the state of things 
can be remedied is a matter entirely for the legislature to consider . 

This principle is followed by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Inayatullah 
Khan v . Diwanchand Mahajan and others , ( 1958 ) 15 Election Law Reports 219 . 
This also was a case of improper acceptance of the nomination paper . In this 
case also , the hardship on the part of the petitioner in discharging the onus was 
again emphasised and at page 238 it is pointed out: We cannot help expressing 
with regret that the law is as it is . It is quite obvious that the law should not 
contemplate the doing of an impossible task by a candidate who is contesting 
the election of a returned candidate on such grounds, The law should provide 
for a burden of proof which would be capable of being humanly discharged and 
not a burden which no person can hope to discharge . We hope that the Legis 
lature will intervene and deal with this question as their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court have already expressed . 

The test laid down by the Supreme Court has been thereafter followed by 
Kerala High Court in Abdul Majced (Mcera Sahib ) y . Bhargavan (Kristinan ) 
Member , Legislative Assembly and others, A .I. R , 1963 Kerala 18 ^ [ a case of a 
corrupt practice under section 1.23 (4 ) ] ; by the Patna High Court in Badri Narain 
Singh and others v . Kamdeo Prasad Singh and another, A . I . R . 1961 Patna 41 
[ a case of a corrupt practice under section 123 (5 ) ) ; and by the Mysore High Court 
in Sangappa Andanappa v . Shiyamurthiswamy Siddeppalyaswamy, A . I . R . 1961 
Mysore 106 ( a case of defective list of polling stations being furnished to one 
of the candidates ) . 


The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that the strict requirements of 
the test so laid down in Vashistha s case are considerably modified in a later 
decision of the Supreme Court and the Court or the Tribunal ( an , having rcgard 
to the facts of a particular case, presume that the result of the election has been 
materially affected and need not insist upon the fact of the result being mate 
rially affected being established by specific evidence . Reference in this behalf 
was made to the decision of the Supreme Court in Surendra Nath Khosla anci 
another v . Dalip Singh and others, A . I. R . 1967 Supreme Court 242. This was a 
case of improper rejection of a nomination paper of one of the candidates. The 
Supreme Court has in this case held that in such a case it may be presumed 
that the result of the election has been materially affected . It pointed out : 
Though the words of section 100 , as it stood before the amending Act 27 of 1958 
are in general terms with equal application to the case of improper acceptance , 
ag also of improper rejection of a nomination paper , case law has made a dis 
tinction between the two classes of cases. There is a presumption in the case of 
improper rejection of a nomination paper that it has matcriolly gffected the re 
sult of the elccion . Apart from the practical difficulty , almost the impossibility , 


SEC. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA IS , 1890 5185 . 

= - . . - - - - - 

- - - = = 
of demonstrating that the elector s would have cast their votes in a particular 
way , that is to say, that a substantial number of thom would have cast their 
votes in favour of the rejected candidate , the fact that one of the scveral candi 
dates for an election had been kept out of the arena is by itself a very material 
consideration . Cases can easily be imagined where the most desirable candidate 
from the point of view of electors and the most forniduble candidate from the 
point of view of the other candidates may have been wongly kept out from seel 
ing election . On the other hand , in the case of an improper acceptance of a no 
mination paper, proof may easily be forthcoming to demonstrate that the coming 
into the arena of art additional candidate has not had any effect on the election 
of the best candidate in thc field . The conjecture therefore is perinissible that 
the legislature realising the difference between the two classes of cases has given 
legislative sanction to the vicw by amending section 100 by the Central Act 27 
of 1956 , and by going to the length of providing that an improper rejection of 
any nomination proper is conclusive prooľ of the election bcing void . This case , 
therefore, shows that in case of an improper rejection of a nomination paper , 
the Court can presume that the result of the election has been materially affected , 
but in the case of an improper acceptance of a nomination paper , the Court has 
realfirmed the tests that are laid down in Vashist s case . The test laid down in 
Vashist s casc is not modified at all in the present case in case of an improper 
acceptance of a nomination paper , 

The argument on behalf of the petitioner is thol whic che Court is dealing 
with the impact of false propaganda at the election , it is completely impossible 
to have the type of evidence which is required in Vashist s case , that in view of 
the impossibility of bringing evidence , a presumption should be raiscd as it was 
donc in Khosla s case in case of an improper rejection of a nomination paper ; 
that the test should be : is the corrupt practice intrinsically substantial or real? 
that is the answer to this question is in the affirmative, the result must be held 
to bc materially affected . It is submitted that the Court can consider what is 
the object of the person committing the corrupt practice or whether resort to 
corrupt practice was teinporary or passing or was it persistent or prolonged or 
what was the nature of the medium of publication selected or what will be the 
unmistakable tendency of the publication . The court should bear in mind the 
fundamental rule that one who tends to effect the result of the election cannot 
be easily hcard to say that his plan has not succeeded . In case of presistent: pro 
paganda , presuniption should be drawn that the result is materially affected . 

The above subrnission simply proceeds upon the hardship of the petitioner in 
proving his case but is not W2!37Ented or justified having regard to the provisions 
statute as they exist today . It appears from clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) of scc 
tion 100 that even after the amendment of the Act by the Central Act 58 of 1958 , 
the case of improper acceptance of a nomination paper and the case of a corrupt 
practice committed by an agent other than his election agent, in the interest of 
the returned candidate stand on the same footing and are governed by the same 
principles . In Vashist s case in the case of improper acceptance of a nomination . 
paper , the Court held that the requi cment of the result of the election being 
material y affected should be established by proof of the fact thot the votos would 
have been distributed in such a manner belwcen the contesting candidates as 
would have brought about the defeat of the returned candidate. Such a testi 
no doubt, operated harshly upon the petitioner , but the remedy for removing 
such a gricvance lay entirely with the legislature. The section clearly places the 
burden of proving that the result of the election has been materially affected on 
the petitioner who impugns the validity of the election . In Khosla s case the 
rigour of the test laid down in Vashist s case has not been modified in case of 
iinpropar acceptance of a nomination paper . In fact in Khosla s case the test 
laid dan in Vashist s case has been realirmed so far as a cage of improper ac 
ceptence of a nomination paper is concerned . It is there held that a case of im 
proper rejection of a nominotion paper stood on a different footing and in that 
CASE it has to be presumed that the result of the election has been materially 
affected . Regard was also had to the legislative history , viss the amendment of 
the Aci by Central Act 27 of 1956 becausc after that amendment, election was 
automatically liable to be declared void if a nomination paper was imp operly re 
jected . Under the statute as it exists today, under sub - clauses ( i ) and ( ii ) of 
clause ( d ), the case of impropcr acceptance of a nomination paper and the case 
of a corrupt practice committed by an agent in the interests of the returned 
inndidato utani! on the same footing . Just as there is no scope for roising a : 
presumption in the case of an Improper acceptance of a buomi 
nation paper , so also , there is no scope for raising a presump 
tion as sought to be suggested in a case of a corrupt practice commiitted by an 


: 5186 


THE GAZETTĘ OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 . 1890 [PART II. - 


In the course of his arguments , Mr. Jethmalani on behalf of the petitioner 
compared the provisions of section 101 and those of section 100 sub - section ( 1 ) 
clause ( d ) and submitted that the onus in these two cases cannot be equated 
together. There is , no doubt, some difference between the language of these two 
provisions. In the present case , the onus on the petitioner is to establish that 
the result of the election so far as it concerned the returned candidate hay 
been materially affected . This phrase has becn interpreted in Vashist s case and 
in order to establish his case , the petitioner has to prove this fact in the manner 
indicated in Vashist s case. The language of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) is too clear for 
any possibility about speculation , 


The question then to be considero is : Has the notitioner discharged the onus 
ut establishing that the result of the election has been materially affected by · 
reason of the corrupt practice committed by Acharya Atre as the agent, of respon 
cient No. 1 ? To discharge this onus, he has rclicd upon the same factors which 
tre relerred to while considering the issue whether the statements are reason 
ably calculated to prejudice the prospects of respondent No. 2 s election . He 
: pointed out that the medium sclecte :1 is a newspaper which has a fairly wide 
circulation , that there has been persistent propaganis right from December 12 , 
1966 to the eve of the polling day , that a nuinber of topics are dealth with in these 
Jublications and sometimes some of those publications rercat the "Sr theme. 
He also referred to the specifi ? pics of ividence relevant on the efoot of each 
one of these publications.. 


The petitioner in his evidence while deposing about the allegation of 5 lacs 
riven to Jack Sequeira in connection with Goa poll hus stated that he went for 
canvassing for respondent No . 2 from house to house . Thousands of Dersons 
whom he contacted expressed their opinion of tecling to him because of this pub 
lication . He said that he could not trace those people how and he did r. ot remem 
ber their names . He slightly modified this evidence in cross - examination and 
maid that he knew some of such voters personally had he knew where they re 
side. He said he would be able to give the names of only one or two persons 
who are the admirers of respondent No . 2 and if he made effort, he could give 
also the names of one or two more persons. He remembered the names only 
of one Mahajan and one Parulekar, both residing at Girgaum . Referring to 
this item respondent No. 2 said that the object of this allegation was obvious. 
They were made deliberately and mischievously with the object of prejudicial 
ly affecting his chances at the election and for promoting the prospects of elec 
tion of respondent No . 1. They affected his election immensely . Thousands 
of voters were carried away by this propaganda . These statements have 
damaged his prospects at the election because the situation at the time when 
these statements were made was so tense that it could 1771 have done anything 
but affecting his election , 


The petitioner has also given somc cvidence as regards the effect of the 
publication in associating his ( respondent No. 2 s ) name with Shiv Sena The 
petitioner said that becarise of this propaganda , non -Marathi speaking persons 
did not vote for responront No. 2 as they hated such activities of Shiv Sena 
and association of respondent No. 2 with the activities of Shiv Sena , 


The petitioner and respondent No . 2 have also given evidence 
staternents made by Jagodgurii Shankaracharya and pul, lished 
of Murulha ( Ex . X - 15 ) . 


about the 
in the issue 


The petitioner said that about inore than 1000 lemale clectors were much 
agitated upon the statement made by Jagadguru Shankar: charya that res 
pondent No. 2 was a hypocrite and had done nothing to impose the ban on 
cow slaughter . He, however , did not know the name of any one of these fe 
male olectors. They reside at various places situated in Bombas South Parlia 
mentary constituency . He has not made any efforts to trace any one of them . 
He will not be able to trace any one of such female electors. 


Respondent No . 2 said that the publication of such false statements by 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya created a doubt in the minds of the electors and 
affected his chances at the election as he had no time to undo the harm done 
by the making and publication of these statements. The making and the pub 
lication of these statements had done immense harm to his prospects at the 
election and that respondent No. 1 was the beneficiary of such statements . He 
said that at least 50, 000 of the electors must not have voted for him because 
of such statenrents made by Jagadguru . Gujaratis , Jains and North Indians 


5187 


SEC . 3fii) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


were the bulk of the voters from Bombay South Parliamentary constituency . 
In his cross- examination he said that figure of 50 , 000 was an underestimate . 

Reliance was also placed upon the publication of a news item in Maratha 
dated February 18 , 1967 ( Ex . X - 19 ) . In this news item it is reported that after 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya called respondent No . 2 a hypocrite yesterday , res 
pondent No. 2 has lost whatever little name he had in Bombay . It has now 
become certain that respondent No. 2 is not going to get the support of Guja 
ratis . Jains and North Indians. Apart from producing his exhibit, no other 
attempt has been made to prove the truth of the contents thereof. The 
argument is that since Maratia is published by Acharya Atre, this news item 
may be regarded either as an admission by Atre or as an admission by a re 
porter of Maratha who may be regarded as his sub -agent. This Ex . X - 19 stands 
on the same fuoring as the other exhibits - Ex . X - 96 and Ex . * - ? ? In respect 
of these exhibits , similar contentions were urged and they are not accepted 
by me. For the same reasons, it is not possible to take the view that the con 
tents of Ex . X - 19 should be regarded as proved merely by the production of 
the newspaper Maratha. 

As regards the other publications it is generally said by respondent No. 2 
that the various false staiements made by Atre in Maratha were made wiih a view 
that his chances at the eleciion might be damaged and those of respondent No. 
I might be enhanced and that they have in faci damaged his prospects at the 
election . 

It is also urged that the parliamentary seat from Bumvay South consti 
tuency was a traditionally Congress constituency and in the earlier elections 
respondent No. 2 was elected there froid by a predoniinant majority , that if 
15 , 000 voters deflected , the result will be complet ly different in Bombay South 
Parliamentary constituency . It is said that out of the many electors who did 
not turn out to vote , there might be many who did so as a result of the pre 
paganda in these publications. 


This evidence is rather general and in some manner vue . It has it be 
considered and weiged along with the viuws xpressed by respinderat No. 2 . 
While the counting was going on after the poll, a statement then made by him 
is reported in Free Press Journal dated February 22, 1967 ( Ex . 126 ) . Res 
pondent No . 2 then said that he expected to win the Bombay South Parliamen 
tary seat by a margin of over 50 , 000 votes . When his attention was drawn 
to this statement. he said that at that stage one did not show pessimism and 
he was then not fire because the magnitrile of the criag. was to he invealed 
only afterw2 . ds. 

As against these factors reiied upon to the petiiioner and respondent No. 2 , 
there are certain other factors pointed out on belalf of respondent No. 1 
which are likely to affect the actual result cf the election against respondent 
No. 2 . 

In or about the last week of Decimo : 1066 , respondent No addressed 
a meeting organised by Commerce Graduates Association . In the course of 
his speech at this meeting, he said that the cow should not be killed because 
crores of Hindus do not want her if he killed He also then sic that the pig 
should not be killed as it was regarded as a dirty aniinal and Prophet Mahomed 
had directed thar pork should not be eaten because of that reason . In the 
course of his speech he also said that the protagonists 2 he ban were demand 
ing proiectiuni 10t only for che cow but also for the cow s family including 
cow s mother and father. son and on !!! :21er, sist ) and brother and the 
husband . Such expression of views for the cow hrl , if known by the 
electers and e prciail orthodox Fiindu eleciors , may prejudice their minds 
against residensi No . 2 who said these things in the course of his speech . 

The second circumstance relied upon on behalf of l espondent No. 1 relates to 
the views of respondent No. 2 on the issue of merger of Goa with Maharashtra . 
It is in fact the evidence of the petitioner himself that Maharashtrians want 
that Goa should be a part of the State of Maharashtra . No Maharashtrian desired 
that Goa should retain its status as a part of the centrally administered area . 
The petitioner has also given some evidence as regards the views of respondent 
No . 2 on this problem . He did not know the mind of respondent No. 2 as a 
political leader . Respondent No. 2 did not say whether it should merge with 
Maharashtra or not. He advocated that the wishes of Goans should be ascertained 
.and Goans should be given a free choice to decide whether it should merge 
with Maharashtra or not. He supported the view of the Congress High Com 
mand . These views should naturally be the views of an individual who had full 
faith in democracy , but it is difficult to judge the impact of such vierys on people 


5188 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II 
- - = - = = = -- - - - - -- - - - ---- -- -- -- -- - - --- - - - - - 
who may apply their inind to the problem from a narrow point of view or out 
of parochial outlook . It is a factor to be taken into account whether Maha 
rashtrian electors while exercising their franchise at the election will be affected 
by such views of respondent No. 2. 

The third circumstances suggested on behalf of respondent No 1 is that even 
long prior to the polling day, there was a general feeling amongst prominent 
Congressmen including respondent No. 2 that the Congress party was not as 
popular with the electorate as it was in the past. Reference is made to the 
report of a press interview given by respondent No . 2 at New Delhi and published 
in Times of India dated January 16 , 1967 (Ex. 147 ) . This report shows that 
respondent No . 2 at one time made a statement in Bombgy that the Congress 
majority at the centre would be reduced in the next poll. He elaborated that 
statement at the press interview at New Delhi. He was asked a question 
sometime had passed since he said the Congress would lose 25 of its seats , did 
he still subscribe to that view ? His answer was that was his general observation . 
He was giving rough estimate that the present strength of 375 in Lok Sabha 
may be reduced to 300 . He explained that the Congress had been long in power 
in a democracy , nobody liked one party to be long in power . Such feeling led 
to a tendency towards smaller majorities. This showed that as a politician , 
respondent No . 2 felt that at the election , the Congress majority was likely to 
be reduced . His evidence also shows that in the 1967 election some of the 
prominent leaders of the Congress party were defeated , Mr, Atulya Ghosh from 
Bengal was defeated . Mr. Kamraj from Tamilnad was also defeated . He also 
gaid that in the last election , Congress suffered quite a few unexpected defeats . 
He said that such defeat was due either to local or some other reason . But it 
could not be said that it was due to discontent with the Congress policy as such , 
His evidence also showed that Mr Subramanium and Mr. Sachin Chowdhary , 
two of the Ministers in the Central Cabinet , were also de ! eated at the polls . He 
was asked whether his defeat at the election was a part of the Congress defeat 
because of the people s discontent with unemployment, corruption , high prices, 
etc . Ite replied that he did not agree with that view , He said that during the 
period of the election , quite a few persons left the Congress party . 

The fourth circumstance relied upon on behalf of respondent No. I was 
that a statement made by him showing his association with Shiv Sena was 
reported in the issue of Free Press Journal dated February 6 , 1967 ( Ex . 155 ) . 
This report states that respondent No. 2 advised leaders of Shiv Sena not to 
Indulge in activities that would scare the people, that he called the leaders of 
Shiv Sena privately and told them accordingly , that it was true that this organi 
gation was supported by ( sic - supporting ) Shri S . G . Barve and him but then 
he could not stop any one lending support to the Congress in the elections. This 
was the reason why people believed that he was supporting this organisation . 
According to respondent No 2 , this is a substantially correct report of what he 
said except that he did not call the leaders of Shiv Sena privately . 

One of the factors to be taken into account is whether publication om such a 
report in Free Press Journal is likely to prejudice the non -Maharashtrian voters 
from the Bombay South Parliamentary constituency against respondent No . 2 . 


Lastly , it was pointed out on behalf of respondent No. 1 that many prominent 
leaders of the All T1 : 11: 2 Congress Party came to participate in the election : 
campaign in Bombay, ut they did not address any mccting within the area of 
Bombay South Parliamentary constituency for respondent No. 2 . It appears 
from the evidence of the petitioner that Mr. Morarji Degai and Mr, Y . B . Chavan 
did come to Bombay to participate in the election campaign , they addressed some 
meetings in Bombay hul not within the limits of Bombay South Parliamentary 
constituency . 

These are the relevant factors which have to be taken into consideration while : 
judging whether the result of the election was materially affected by the publica 
tion of the various impugned statements in Maratha It is difficult to say that 
amongst the various factors relied upon by either side, which factor acted upon 
the mind of an elector and in what way . The casting of yotes at an election 
depends upon a variety of factors . It is not possible for anyone to predicate 
how many and which proportion of voters will vote for the one or other of 
the candidates if such impugned statements were not published in Maratha. It 
must be recognised that the petitioner in such a case is confronted with # 
difficult situation . It is , however , not possible to relieve him of the duty im 
posed on lim by section 100 ( 1 ) 9 ( ii) and hold without evidence that the duty 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 5189 

= = 
has been discharged . The petitioner in the present case has failed to adduca 
satisfactory evidence to enable the Court to And that the result of the election 
has been inaterially alfected by reason of the publication of the impugned state 
inents in Maratha and the petitioner has falled to discharge the burden cast an 
him . The inevitable result of such a situation is that the Court cannot incertere 
in his favour and cannot declare the election to be void , 

The other instance of the corrupt practice committed by a person other than 
respondent No. 1 is in relation to the statements made by Jagadguru Swanka . a 
charya at a press conference held in Bombay on February 10, 1967. Tils corrupt 
praciice is pleaded in paragraph 2 of the petition . It is averred that on thc eve 
or clection , viz ., bout February 16 , 1967, Jagadguru Sankaracharya vs Puri 
arrived in Bombay, that he had no other legitimate business in Bombay except 
to influence the course of elections against respondent No. 2 , that at public 
meetings in Bombay held at Shivaji Park on February 16 , 1967 in the evening 
and subsequently to the press correspondents , the said Jagadguru stated that 
respondent No. 2 had a hand in the incidents which took place in Delhi on 
November 7 , 1966 and in particular arson committed on the house of the Congress 
President and injuries inflicted on the inmates of that house , In paragraph 2F 
of the petition it is pleaded that at about the same time, Jagadguru published 
false statements insinuating that the second respondent only pretended to have 
respect for the cow and that he had done nothing whatsoever to discourage cow 
slaughter . The report of the statements made by Jagadguru in newspaper shows 
that Jagadguru condemned respondent No. 2 as a hypocrite . These statements 
by Jagadguru are totally false , that they gravely impaired the personal character 
and conduct of respondent No. 2 and prejudiced the prospects of his election and 
that this constituted a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) of 
the Act. Pursuant to the order dated September 17 , 1967 , the petitioner has by 
way of amendment after paragraph 2J ( iv ) inter alia pleaded the submission 
that Jagadguru Shankaracharya wag the agent of respondent No. 1 and the 
publication made by him was in the interest of respondent No. 1 and with his 
consent, that the same materially affected the result of the election to the detri 
ment of respondent No. 2 and the benefit of respondent No. 1. 

There is no evidence in the present case as regards the statements alleged to 
be inade by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at public mectings in Bombay held at 
Shivaji Park on February 16 , 1967. The evidence, however, showed that a 
press conference was called by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at Loyalka Estate 
In Bombay and the report of this press conference appeared in the issue of Free 
Press Journal dated February 17 , 1967 ( Ex, 79 ) and the issue of Blitz dated 
February 18 , 1967 ( Ex . 80 ) . 

The report in Free Press Journal ( Ex . 79 ) shows that at the press conference 
Jagadguru made a bitter attack on the Congress party for not making any 
serious effort to ban COWslaughter though the Congress held 
extreme majority in the country . He said that he was not inter 
ested in election or politics , that his recent fast was not en 
election stunt nor had he come to Bombay to take part in the election 
campaign . At this press conference Jagadguru made a series of complaints and 
accusations against respondent No. 2 evoking an immediate rejoinder from him 
later in the day . Answering a question put to him on the Sadhu demonstration 
in Delhi in November, Jagadguru said that he agreed with Shri Madhu Limayo s 
allegation that respondent No. 2 and Shri Atülya Ghosh were behind the incidents 
which included the burning of Congress President Kamraj s houge. In the course 
of his press conference he also said that respondent No 2 bas not been sincero 
in his efforts to bring about a ban on cow slaughter . He went to the extent of 
accusing respondent No . 2 of taking advantage of the movement. 

In Blitz (Ex . 80 ) the report of the interview appears thus: His Holiness 
Jagadguru Shri Shankaracharya , , denounced respondent No. 2 , the 
Bombay Congress boss , as a hypocrite . He was asked what he thought 
about the Bombay Congregs boss s threat to leave public life it ban on cow 
slaughter was not introduced . Hlo Holiness said that " he is a hypocrite " on 
whose words he had no faith , Tho Jagadguru also accused respondent No. 2 
and Aluya Ghosh of being behind the trouble that led to bloodshed on November 
7 , outside Parliament. His Holiness agreed with Madhu Limaye who alleged 
that respondent No. 2 and Ghosh had engineered the Sadhu troubles. He added 
that he had enquired into the allegations and found them to be correct . 

The correctness of those reports in the Fred Pres Journal and the Blitz is 
proved on behalf of the petitioner by examining Chandrakant Desai (Ex. 78 ) , a 


5190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II -- 


- 


- 


- 


reporter of the Free Press Journal who covered this press conference Chandra 
kant Desai has stated that this Press conference was held at Loyalka Estate, 
Chowpaty Band Stand and he was present there . The report in the Free Press 
Journal ( Ex , 79 ) is a correct report of what Jagadguru Shankaracharya said at 
the press conference. That report was published in the Free Press Journal in 
view of the report submitted by him . He also said the report in litz (Ex . 80) is 
also a corect report of what Jagadguru Shankaracharya said at the press con 
ference. There is no serious cross - examination of Chandrakant Desal on this 
part of his testimony in conncction with the press conference held by Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya . What is stated in the report in Free Press Journal ( Ex . 79 ) 
and the report in Blitz ( Ex . 80 ) is, therefore, a true and accurate version of what 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya said at this press conference . The report of this press 
conference was published in the issue of Maratha dated February 17 , 1967 ( part 
of Ex . X - 15 ) and in the issue of Indian Express dated February 17 , 1967 ( Ex. 125 ) 
The correctness of the statements in these reports is not independently estab 
Jished . 

As regards these statements made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya, the .conten : 
tion on behalf of respondent No. 1 is that these statements do not amount to a 
corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) because Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya was not the agent of respondent No . 1 , that Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya did not publish the statements made by him at the press con 
ference with the consent of respondent No. 1, that it is not established that 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya knew those statements to be false or did not believe 
them to be true . The further contention on behalf of respondent No. 1 was that 
these statements by Jagadguru Shankaracharya cannot be a ground for declaring 
the election of respondent No. 1 to be void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) because the 
corrupt practice , If at all committed by Jagadguru Shankaracharya , is not com 
mitted with the consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent. The further 
contention is that this cannot be a ground for declaring an election to be void 
under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) because it is not established that the result of the 
election is materially affected by commission of such corrupt practice on the 
part of Jagadguru Shankaracharya . In respect of the statement describing 
respondent No. 2 as a hypocrite , there is a further submission that such a state 
ment by Jagadguru is a mere expression of opinion and is not in relation to the 
personal character or conduct of respondent No. 2 but is a public criticism of 
respondent No. 2 of his acts in respect of a matter of public importance . 

A statement made or published by Jagadguru Shankaracharya will be a 
corrupt practice under section 123 ( 4 ) only it it is first established that Jagadguru 
is the agent of respondent No. 1 or has made the statement at the press con 
ference with the consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent. It is not the 
case of the petitioner in this petition that these statements were made by 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya with the consent of the election agent of respondent 
No. 1 . The contention on behalf of the petitidner is that Jagadguru Shankara 
charya is the agent of respondent No. 1 and he has made these statements at the 
press conference with the consent of respondent No . 1. 

Only three circumstances are relied upon on behalf of the petitioner to estab 
lish the fact that Jagadguru Shankaracharya is the agent of respondent No . 1 
and / or has made the statement with the consent of respondent No. 1, The Arst 
circumstance is that respondent No 1 made a public statement condemning 
arrest of Jagadguru Shankaracharya, that the Secretary of Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya thanked respondent No. 1 for his statement and that news about 
this letter of thanks were published in the issue of Maratha dated December 16 , 
1966 (Ex. X -41). The second circumstance is that in the issue of Maratha 
dated February 9 , 1967 (Ex . X - 18 ) , Maratha published a news Item that Jagadguru 
Shankaracharys was coming to Bombay to carry on propaganda against the 
Congress and especially gainst respondent No. 2 . The third and the last 
circumstance relied upon is that in the month of January 1967, respondent No. 1 
addressed two meetings held under the auspices of Sarvadaliya Goraksha 
Mahabhiyan Samiti and that at one of these meetings, he expressed the same 
sentiment which was expressed by Jagadguru Shankaracharya . viz ., to strike 
the enemy at its weakest spot in accordance with the philosophy of Chanakya . 
Apart from these circumstances, no other factor or circumstance is relied upon 
on behalf of the petitioner to contend that Jagadguru Shankaracharya is the 
agent of respondent No , 1 or that what he said at the press conference was done 
by him with the consent of respondent No. 1 . 

The evidence of respondent No. 1 shows that in his capacity as the Chalsman 
of the Civil Liberties Unlon , he made a statement condemning the arrest of 


- 


- 


- 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5191 

- - - - = = - 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya and stated that he should be released . Sometime 
thereafter the Secretary to Jagadguru Shankaracharya sent a post card to his 
office stating that Jagadguru thanked him for what he stated . This post card 
was received by him at his ofice address . The news about the receipt of this 
post card appeared in the issue of Maratha dated December 16 , 1966 (Ex . X -41) , 
but he was unable to explain who gave information about this post card to news 
paper Maratha and how news about this post card came to be published therein . 

In the issue of Maratha dated February 9, 1967 ( Ex. X - 18 ) it is reported that 
Jagadguru was going to come to Bombay during the next fortnight for carrying 
on propaganda against the Congress , especially against respondent No . 2 
And was going to place before the public the action taken by rcspondent 
No. 2 during the fast undertaken for banning the cow slaughter . The report 
further states that Jagadguru was going to start a round of propaganda against 
the Congress on a large scale through southern or northen parts of Bombay and 
it is learnt from his close associates that it is probable that the Bombay Pradesh 
Congress Committee will hatch a plot to thwart this plan . There is no evidence 
to show how such a news item came to be published and whether what is stated 
therein is correct or incorrect. Respondent No . 1 in his evidence says that he 
came to know of this news item after this election petītion was filed , and he did 
not know how Maratha published this information . 

At the press conference what Jagadguru said is proved by the evidence of 
Chandrakant Desai. Jagadguru said that he was not interested in elections or 
politics , that his recent fast was not an election stunt, nor had he come to 
Bombay to take part in the election campaign . In view of these statements 
made by Jagadguru , a report in Maratha ( Ex . X .- 18 ) can have no evidentiary 
value whatsoever, more so , because no attempt has been made to prove the 
truth of the statements therein made. 

As regards the third circumstance , respondent No. 1 in his evidence stated 
that he addressed two meetings held under the auspices of Sarvadaliya Goraksha 
Mahabhiyan Samiti. These meetings were addressed by leaders of all parties. 
He did not remember to have said at this meeting that respondent No. 2 had 
hurt the religious sentiments of the Hindus. When he went to the platform , 
he was given a cutting of Indian Express (Ex , 121) wherein respondent No. 2 
made reference to son of cow , husband of cow and so on . When this cutting 
was shown to him , he said that it did not matter whether the agitation was the 
election stunt, one must exploit the difficult situation of the opponent. A report 
of what he said is correctly reported in the issue of Sunday Standard dated 
January 1, 1967 ( Ex , X - 86 ) . The reports of the press conference in Maratha 
( Ex . X - 15 ) and in the Indian Express ( Ex , 125 ) also show that at the press 
conference , Jagadguru is alleged to have stated that if the Congress Government 
can be changed by means of election free of corrupt practice , it should be 
changed , but if this cannot be done, then this Government must be changed by 
means of Bharatiya polities, that is to say, by adopting Chanakya s policy. 
29th January , 1968 : 

These circumstances do not estab ish the case of the petitioner that Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya is the agent of respondent No. 1 or that he made the statements 
at the press conference with the consent of respondent No. 1 . They do not throw 
any light at all on the question of agency of congent. 

The evidence of respondent No. 1 shows that he had no contact with Jagad 
gurul Shankaracharya . He said in his evidence that he has heard of the name 
of Jagadguru Shankaracharya , but he was not personally acquainted with him . 
He has not met him at any time. He came to know that Jagadguru was likely 
to come to Bombay after he was released. He did not attend any meeting, or 
conference addressed by Jagadguru . He merely glanced through a report of the 
press conference of Jagadguru which was published is Indian Express. He said 
that none of the statements made by Jagadguru were with his consent or know 
ledge nor were they inspired by him . He was unable to say whether these 
statements of Jagadguru were made for his benefit . He plainly stated that 
Jagadguru was not his agent at any time. This evidence given in chief is not 
challenged In cross - examination and must be accepted as true . 

Even the evidence of respondent No. 2 shows that he is only surmising when 
he deposed that Jagadguru Shankaracharya is the agent of respondent No . 1. 
Even in his evidence in chief he said that he did not know whether Jagadguru 
was a party to a conspiracy to make propaganda against him , but he merely 


5192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ PART II 


guessed that Jagad quru vas & party to such a conspiracy . The reason that he 
gave for such a conjecture was that it was reported in newspapers that he came 
to Bombay to tell the voters what he (respondent No 2 ) was so far as the 
question of ban on cow glaughter was concerned . In his cross - examination le 
said that he deposed that Jagadguru came to Bombay to carry on election propa 
qanda against the Congress and himself because it was so reported in Maratha , 
He was aware that in the newspaper it was reported that Jagadguru stated at 
the press conference that he had not come to Bombay to carry on election 
campaign or for political purpose but had come to Bombay for the Aradhana 
ceremony of his Guru , He plainly admitted that it is not his case that the state 
ment made by Jagadguru that he did not come to Bombay for election propaganda 
or for political purpose is a talse statement. He, however , added that what 
Jagadguru said actually damaged his prospects at the election Respondent 
No . 2 also stated in his evidence that he had not come into personal contact 
with Jagadguru and so far as he knew , there was no occasion for Jagadguru 
to have personal animus against him . After his attention wag 
drawn to the actual statements made by Jagadguru at the press conference, he 
did say that he might not have come to Bombay to carry on election campaign , 
but what he said improved the prospects of the election of respondent No. 1 and 
damaged his prospects at the election , This evidence of respondent No. 2 shows 
that he merely guessed in describing Jagadguru as the agent of respondent No. 1 
simply because of a report in a newspaper . He has no other material to base his 
surmise or conjecture . 

The above discussion shows that the petitioner has failed to establish that 
Jagadguru is the agent of respondent No. 1 as that term is understood under 
the election law or made the statements at the press conference held in Bombay 
on February 16 , 1967 with the consent of respondent No. 1 . It is not even estab 
lished that respondent No . 1 even knew what Jagadguru was likely to say at the 
press conference , It is , therefore, unnecessary to consider the other contentions 
of respondent No. 1 in relation to the statements made by Jagadguru Shankar 
acharya . The petitioner has not established in the present case that a corrupt 
practice was committed by Jagadguru Shankaracharya, 

There remains for consideration the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) by 
use of or appeal to cow as a religious symbol for furtherance of the prospects 
of the election of respondent No . 1 or for prejudicially affecting the election of 
respondent No . 2 . In paragraph 2F of the petition while referring to false state 
ments made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at the press conference , it is also 
pleaded that cow was used as a religious symbol for the furtherance of the 
prospects of the election of respondent No . 1 or, at any rate , for prejudicially 
affecting the election of respondent No . 2 . However , no particulars are given 
In respect of such use of or appeal to cow 23 religious symbol. At the trial of 
this petition , two instances are relied upon as constituting such a corrupt practice 
under section 123 ( 3 ) . The first instance relates to the publication of a cartoon 
# tating that " cow is my mother , don t kill her. Pig is my father , don t kill him ," 
and the poem entitled " Wailing of Sadoba , the son of a pig ." ( Ex . X - 10 ) both 
published in the issue of Maratha dated December 31, 1961. The second instance 
of this corrupt practice io by reason of the statement made by Jagadguru 
Shankaracharya at a press conference in Bombay on February 18 , 1987 in the 
course of which he denounced respondent No 2 ag a hypocrite when he was 
usked what he thought about respondent No. 2 s threat to leave public lifo it ban : 
on cow slaughter was not introduced . 

The contention on behalf of respondent No. 1 is that by this publication of 
the cartoon and the poem and the statement made by Jagadguru at the press 
eonference no corrupt practice under section 123 ( ) is committed because ( a ) 
cow is not a religious bymbol, and (b ) use of or appeal to cow as religious 
uymbol is not made for furtherance of the prospects of election of respondent 
No, 1 or for prejudicially affecting the election of respondent No. 2 . The further 
contention on behalf of respondent No. 1 is that even if this is assumed to be & 
corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) , it is not a ground for 
declaring the election of respondent No. 1 to be void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) 
because the corrupt practice is not proved to have been committed with the 
consent of respondent No. 1 or his election agent. Lastly , the contention 13 that 

section 
it is not even a ground for declaring the election to be yoid under 
100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii) because it is not established that Atre or Jagadguru is the agent 

in the 
of respondent No. 1 or that these corrupt practices were committed 
Interests of respondent No . 1 or that the result of the election is materially 
Affected by commission of such corrupt practice . 


Sec . 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KA & TIKA 25, 1890 


5193 


The relevant part of section 123 (3 ) runs thus : 

123 : " Corrupt practices. The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices 
for the purposes of this Act: 

( 3 ) , . , the use of or appeal to religious symbols . , for the 

furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for 

prejudicially affecting the election of any candidate . 
The Arst point that arises for determination is whether cow is a religious 
symbol. 

In Murray s New English Dictionary (Oxford ), various meanings of the 
word symbol are given . The first meaning given is " the formal authoritative 
statement or summary of the religious belief of the Christian church or of a 
particular church or sect , a creed or confession of faith .” The second is " a brief 
or sententious statement; a formula , motto, maxim , occasionally a summary , 
synopsis ." These meanings cannot be applied to the word " mymbol" as used in 
section 123 ( 3 ) of the Act. The third meaning , which appears to be the one that 
can be applied , is " something that stands for , represents, or denotes something 
else (not by exact resemblance , but by vague suggestion , or by some accidental 
or conventional relation ) especially a material object representing or taken to 
represent something immaterial or abstract , ag & being , idea , quality or condi 
tion ; a representative or typical figure, sign or token ." The remaining, meanings 
which do not apply , are " an object representing gothething sacred . A small device 
on a coin , additional to and usually independent of the main device or type. A 
written character or mark used to represent something; a letter , figure or sign 
conventionally standing for some object, procese, etc." 

In Jagdev Singh Sidhanti v , Pratap Singh Daulta and others , A .I. R . 1065 
Supreme Court 183 it is said : A symbol stands for or represents something 
material or abstract ; in order to be a religious gymbol, there must be a visible 
representation of a thing or concept which is religious. In that case the word 
Om was used on a fag during the election campaign and the contention was 
that use of Om on the flag in the campaign amounted to commission of a corrupt 
practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) . That contention was, however , 
not accepted . It is pointed out : To Om high spiritual or mystical efficacy is 
undoubtedly ascribed , but its use on a flag doon not symbolige religion , or any 
thing religious 

In Ramanbhai Ashabhat Patel v . Dabhi Ajitkumar fulsinji and others, A . I. R . 
1965 Supreme Court 669 a candidate of the Swatantra Party , whose election 
symbol was star, had issued and distributed pamphlets wherein his election 
symbol star was described as Dhruva star , The question that arose for considera 
tion was whether by such description and use of the word " Dhruva star a 
corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) was committed. The Court 
held that such a use doos not amount to commission of any corrupt practice 
within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) . It is pointed out that the question has 
to be examined in two branches whether the symbol used has any special 
religious significance and whether its inscription on leaflets and pamphlets which 
were distributed amounted to the use of a religious symbol. It is observed that 
since Dhruva is not regarded as a deity or a Godhead & reference to him cannot 
be said to have religlous significance even to an orthodox of an Illiterate and 
religiously minded Hindu . It is also pointed out that it is impossible to say that 
any particular object, bird , or animal could be regarded as a " symbol of the 
Hindu religion ." The basic concept of Hindu religion is that the Supreme Being 
Is in every Inanimate object, plant, creature or parson , i.e ., in the entire creation 
and that the entire creation is within the Supreme Being If , therefore , 
according to the fundamental concept of Hindu religion God or Divinity is the 
reality or the substance of eyerything that eriste , it would not be possible to 
day that any particular object ig a symbol of the Hindu religion . In this case 
the Supreme Court points out that a reference to prophets or religions or to 
deities venerated in a religion or to their qualities and deeds does not necessarily 
amount to an appeal to the religious sentiment of the electorate . Something more 
has to be shown for that purpose. If , for instance , the illiterate , the orthodox 
or fanatical electors are told that their religion would be in danger or they will 
suffer miseries or calamities unless they cast their vote for a particular candidate , 
that will be quite clearly an appeal to the religious sentiment of the people . 
Similarly , if they are told that the wrath of God or of a delty will visit them , 
17 they do not exercise their franchise in a particular way or if they are told 
that they will receive the blessings of God or a deity it they vote in a particular 
way, that would be an appeal to the religious sentiment. Similarly , if they are 


5194 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II 

- - - 

- - - . . 
told that they should cast their vote for a particular candidate whose election 
symbol is associated with a particular religion just as the Cross is with Chris 
tianity , that will be using a religious symbol for obtaining votes. But where , as 
in the case of the Hindu religion , it is not possible to associate a particular 
symbol with religion , the use of a symbol, even when it 
is associated with some deity , cannotwithout something more , be 
regarded as a corrupt practice within the meaning of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
123 of the Act . For instance , a particular object or a plant, a bird or an animal 
associated with a deity is used in such a way as to show that votes are being 
solicited in the name of that deity or as would indicate that the displeasure of 
that deity would be incurred if a yoter does not react favourably to that appeal, 
it may be possible to say that this amounts to making an appeal in the name 
of religion . But the symbol standing by itself cannot be regarded as an appeal 
in the name of religion The Supreme Court in this case has pointed out that 
in considering the question as to whether a particular appeal made by a candidate 
falls within the mischief of section 123 ( 3 ) the Court should not be astute to read 
into the words used in the appeal anything more than can be attributed to them 
on its fair and reasonable construction . 

In K . C . Sharma y , Krishi Pandit Rishab Kumar and others , A . I . R . 1960 
Madhya Pradesh 27 and in Monansingh Laxmansingh y . Bhanwarlal Raimat 
Nahata and others , A . I. R . 1984 Madhya Pradesh 137 it is held that an appeal to 
vote for a candidate to protect the mother cow is not an appeal on the ground 
of religion . But in neither of these judgments are any reasons given for taking 
this view . 


In the present case , extracts from a fairly large number of text books re 
garded as religious amongst the Hindus are tendered to show the Supreme 
position that cow occupies in the minds of orthodox Hindus. The petitioner 
though not well versed in Hindu scriptures has given evidence about his view 
on the position the cow occuples in Hindu religion . He says that as a Hindu , he 
considers cow not merely an object of worship but as a God itself. He believed 
that eating of beer is strictly prohibited by the Hindu religion ; that if a pure 
Hindu eats beef, then he ceases to be a Hindu ; that taking little urine of cow 
19 regarded as equivalent to taking, Charnamrit of Gangali; that Ganges resides 
In the urine of cow ; that Lakshmi, Goddess of riches, resides in cow dung ; that 
when a man is departing from this world , he has a belief that it is only holding 
the tail of a cow that will lead him to heaven . This eyidence he gave because 
he was so taught by his mother and grand- father during his childhood and by 
his teacher while he was at school. In his evidence he has relied upon a passage 
( Ex , 88 ) from H .G . Rawlinson s book " India - A short cultural history . At page 
4 of this book the author says : 
" In spite of all differences of language , race and sect, from the Himalayas 

to Cape Comorin , the fundamental principles of the Hindu religion 
hold their immemorial sway over the vast majority of the population , 
These may be summed up as the almost universal belief in the authority 
of the Vedas and the sacredness of the cow , the worship of the great 
gods Siva and Vishnu in their innumerable aspects , and the institution 
of caste 


The petitioner also relied upon a passage (Ex . 59 ) from Louis Ronou s book 
Hinduism at pages 17 and 18 to the effect . 
" In fact , according to what phenomena one consider Hinduism can appear 

either as an extrovert religion of spectacle , abundant mythology 
and congregational practices or as a religion which is profoundly 
interiorized . To the first view belong the activities of the sects , 
the Bhakti movement, and the worship of the cow , in which some 
find the concrete symbol of Hinduism ; here, too . could be included 
the principle of nonviolence , at least in its social application ." 


These passages show that there is a universal beliet amongst the Hindus to 
regard cow ag gacred and the cow 18, therefore, worshipped . 

The petitioner has also led evidence of an expert on Hindu religion to esta 
blish the position that cow occupies Amongst the Hindus and in Hindu religion . 
Mr. J . H Dave (Ex . 88) , a member of the Bar and a Sanskrit scholar has given 
evidence as an expert. In his testimony he has stated that he regards cow as 


. .. . . . 


le 2 authja all 


which 


Sec . 3 ( il ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 

. . . - RR 
a religious symbol, and has cited extracts from several religious scriptures to 
support his view . Reference can be had to a few of such extracts , 

In the book entitled " Primer of Hinduism " ( Ex . 89 ) by J. N . Farquhar at 
page 82 author has referred to certain ideas or convictions which are held by 
all or nearly all Hindus except those permeated by Western thought. There 
are perhaps three which may be classed together as being nearly as universal 
as Hinduism . They are , first , the validity of caste and the authority of the 
Vedas and the Brahmans; second , the doctrine of transmigration , and third , 
the sacredness of the cow . 

Norman Brown in his book , " Man in the Universe" (Ex . 90 ) at page 57 has 
dealt with the development of the dectrine of Hinduism that cow has special 
sanctity . He states : 
" The idea of the sanctity of the cow originated in the environment of 

the Rig and Atharva Vedas and I believe may fairly be regarded 
as a creation , to some extent unconscious, of the Brahman priest 
hood . At least three items in Vedic religion seem to me to have 
combined to give the cow its exalted sacred position . To them 
were added in post -Vedic times the support of two wider Indian 
doctrines originating in a non - Vedic environment, namely , the doc 
trine of Ahines and the still more ancient belief in the mother 
goddess , with which the cow came to be identified . The three 
Vedic items gave the cow a status of sanctity but without inviola 
bility ; the two later notions from non - Vedic sources seem to have 

given it inviolability ." 
In Kalyan Go- Ank (Ex. 92 ) a Shloka from Rig Veda ( 8 - 101- 15 ) under the 
title " Do not kill the cow " is cited . It states : 
" Cow is the mother of Rudras, daughter of Vagus, sister of Adityas and 

the source of Nector , She is innocent. She is Aditi. I am , there 

fore, telling intelligent people that cow should not ble killed ." 
Reference is also made to a Shloka from Rig Veda ( 1 - 89 - 10 ) cited in Kalyan 
Go-Ank (Ex.93 ) dealing with the position that Aditi occupies in Hindu mytho 
logy . It states : 
" Aditi is heaven , Aditi is the firmament, Aditi is the mother , the father , 

the son . Aditi is all Gods deity as of men . Aditi is all that had 

gone in the past as also all that is going to come in future ." 
From Kalyan Go - Ank a photograph of cow ( Ex .94 ) is tendered . This ex 
hibit shows that as stated in Padma Puran Srishti Khanda various Gods and 
deities reside in various parts of the body of cow . 

Ex . 95 is an extract from chapter 48 of Srishti Khanda in Padma Puran , 
This extract states: 
" Shadgha and all the four Vedas along with verses serially dwell in the 

cow s mouth , in the tip of her horns dwells Indra and both the 
horns Lord Shankar and Lord Keshav . Skhanda in her stomach . 
Brahma in her head , Shanker in her forehead , Ashwini Kumars in 
both the ears , sun and moon in both the eyes , eagle in her teeth , 
Saraswati in her tongue, all teerthas in her exhaled breath , Gangaji 
daughter of Janak in her urine, group of rishis in her pores of 
hair , Yama in the upper portion of her face , to the right Kuber ( god 
of wealth ) and Garud ( eagle ) to the left, lustrous and powerful 
group of Yakshag and Gandharyas in her mouth , Nagas, in her 
nostrils , in the back , of her hoofs Apsaras , Lakshmi in her dung , 
goddess Sarwamangala in her urine , in the front portion of her 
legs sidhas , in her lowing (mooing " Rambhana " ) . Prajapati and in 
her udders dwell the four scas. He who touches the cow every 

day takes bath in these four seas. 
Hence the man who touches the cow gets all benefits . By these he gets rid 

of all sins. The man who applies the dust raised by the hoofs of the 
cow to his head is considered to have taken bath in the sacred waters 

of all Teerthas and is rid of all sins." 
Ex , 96 are various verses from the several chapters of Mahabharat. In 
Anushasan chapter 124 verse 20 it is stated that all Gods have entered the cow 
just as rivers enter the ocean . Even the heaven and the middle region allen 
joy in the glory of the cow . Verse 26 thereof states ; where the cow is not 


5196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II — 


geen , there cannot be presence of God . There cannot be Agnihotra or the 
Yagnas. Verse 32 states : Cow is the Yagna with all its Angas . Cow is an 
eternal Yagna, All Vedas with Upanishads are represented in the form of 
a Cow . in verses 35, 36 and 37 of Anushasan , chapter 193 Mahabharat reference 
is made to five defalcations of Dharma for which there is no remedy penance . 
One of such defalcations is the killer of a cow . It is said that after death such 
sinful persons go to Pretaloka in the hell and are cooked like fish and they 
have titive upon puss. In verses 17 , 18 , 24 and 25 of chapter 113 ( Anushasan ,. . . 
Mahabharat it is inter alia stated that one should bow down to the cow in 
the morning and in the evening , then only one gets happiness , 

Verse 291 of chapter 3 of Vishnu Dharmottar ( Ex . 97 ) deals with sanctity 
of cow . It states : Cows are sacred and are Mangal. . . In the joints of the 
neck and the hair of cows, there is sacred river Ganga , Cows represent all 
the deities (Sarvedevamaya — 9 84 and cows represent all the sacred 
places of pilgrimage ( Sarvateerthamaya , TIHTI ). By a pleasant scratch 
ing of the cows, one removes all sins. By giving food to them , one obtains 
great spiritual merit. By providing them with shelter , one becomes the ruler 
ot a big city . By protecting the cows from fear , one is himself freed from all 
fears . 

Similar extracts , were also cited from " History of Dharmashastra " by 
Mahamahopadhyaya Kane (Ex. 98 ) , “ The Institutes of Vishnu " by Julius Jolly 
(Ex. 99 ) and " Shanti Mayukha " by Bhatta Nilkanth ( hi . 102 ). 

These text books on Hindu religion undoubtedly show that so far as Hindus 
are concerned , cow is regarded as a symbol of religion and amongst Hindus, 
cow is worhipped because there is a belief that all Gods and deltles reside in 
her body. 

It was urged on behalf of respondent No . 1 that cow is not regarded as 
gacred by all sections of Hindu , that only a predominant majority thereof re 
garded cow as gacred , that thre is no temple of cow anywhere in the country , 
that in earlier days even a great saint like Yagnavalkya did not consider it 
improper to eat beef if it was tender, that before Kallvarjya period the eating 
of beef for Yagna s and for entertaining guests was permitted . The evidence in 
this case does show that these factory existed, but their existence does not 
detract from the sacred position that cow occupied amongst Hindus. She is 
regarded as an embodiment of all the Gods and there is a firm belief amongst 
Hindus to consider com as a religious symbol. 

The question then to be considered is whether use of or appeal to cow as 
a religious symbol is made in the present case for furtherance of the prospects 
of clection of respondent No. 1 or for prejudicially affecting the prospects of 
respondent No. 2 at the election . The cartoon and the poem (Ex . X - 16 ) are 
undoubtedly scandalous publications published in bad taste and are utterly 
undignified . They are published in view of the speech made by respondent 
No . 2 before the Commerce Graduates Association , the report of which ap 
peared in the Indian Express dated December 30 , 1966 ( Ex . 121) . This report 
guggests that in the course of this speech respondent No . 2 advocated not only 
ban on slaughter of cow but also ban on blaughter of pigs. Respondent No . 2 
in his evidence has explained that he advocated ban on glaughter of cow be 
cause cow was regarded sacred amongst the Hindus, while he suggested ban 
on slaughter of pigs because it was regarded a dirty animal by the Muslims. 
In the course of this speech , however, he referred to the family of cow by des 
cribing cov mother and father , son and daughter , gister and brother and the 
husband . The cartoon and the poem are published in view of such a report 
tliat appeared in the newopapers . But neither in the cartoon nor in the poem 
is to be found any reference to election or to canvassing for votes for re 
pondent No. 1 or agalast respondent No. 2. Apart from the fact that this car 
toon and true poem were published during the election period , there is nothing 
in the contents of this cartoon or the poem to show that it was published for 
the purpose of furthering the prospects of election of regpondent No. 1 or for 
prejudicially attecting the prospects of respondent No. 2 . 

As regards the statements made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya, it is clear 
from the evidence of Chandrakant Desai that he described respondent No. 2 , 
as a hypocrite when he was asked what he thought about respondent No. 2 s 
threat to leave public life it ban on cow glaughter was not introduced . As this 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


very press conference Jagadguru Shankaracharya also said that he was not 
interested in elections or politics, that his recent fast was not an election stunt 
and that he did not come to Bombay to take part in the election campaign . 
When these statements were pointed out to respondent No. 2 , he in his evid 
ence said that he did not say that such staternents by Jagadguru vere false 
statements . He also stated that Jagadguru might not havo come to Bombay to 
carry on election campaign . In view of that evidence of respondent No . 2 and 
the statements made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at the press conference , it 
18 not possible to hold that what he said at the press conference was for fur 
therance of the prospects of election of respondent No . 1 or for prejudicially 
affecting the prospects of election of respondent No. 2 

The result, therefore , is that neither the publication of the cartoon and 
poem (Ex, X - 16 ) nor the statements made by Jagadguru Shankaracharya at the 
press conference are made for furtherance of the prospects of election of reo 
pondent No . 1 or tor prejudicially affecting the prospects of election of res 
pondent No . 2 . In view of this evidence , it is not possible to take the view that 
à corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) was committed by 
reason of the publication of the cartoon and poem (Ex. X - 16 ) In Maratha or 
by the statements made by Jagadguru Shaokaracharya at the press conference . 

Even if it is 288umed that a corrupt practice under section 123 ( 3 ) is com 
mitted by reason of the above publications, in order that it should be a ground 
for declaring the election to be void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) , it has further to be 
established that the corrupt practice was committed with the consent of respon 
dent No. 1 , the returned candidate . While considering the corrupt practice alleged 
to be committed by Atre by pubushing Various new items, cartoons, etc . 
in Maratha, I have already held that such publications were not proved to be 
published with the consent of respondent No . 1. Thus it is not established in 
the present case that the publication of the cartoon and the poem (Ex . X - 10 ) 
by Atre was with the consent of respondent No. 1 . So also , I have beld that 
the petitioner has failed to establish that the Jagadguru Shankaracharya is 
the agent of respondent No. 1 or made the statements at the press conference 
with the consent of respondent No. 1. That being the position , this cannot be 
regarded as a ground under s . 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) for declaring the election to be void 
even if it is assumed that a corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 3 ) 
is conimitted . 

This can also not be regarded as a ground for declaring the election to be 
void under section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) of the Act . As regards the publication by 
Atre in the various issues of Maratha , I have already held that the petitioner 
has failed to establish that such publication has materially affected the result 
of the election . So far as the statements by Jagadguru Shankaracharya are 
concerned , the petitioner has tailed to establish that Jagadguru Shankaracharya 
1g the agent of respondent No. 1 , that what he stated at the press conference was 
in the interests of respondent No. 1 and that these statements materially affected 
the result of the election . Thus the requirements of section 100 ( 1 ) ( d ) ( ii ) 
are not fulAlled in the present case and the election of respondent No. 1 cannot 
be declared void on that ground . 
My answers to the issues raised on behalf of respondent No. 1 are as under : 

Issue No. 1 : In the negative , 
Issue No. 2 : In the negative. 
Issue No. 3 : In the negative . 
Issue No . 4 : In the negative, 
Issue No . 6 : Does not arise , 
Issue No . 6 : Does not arise . 
Issue No. 7 : In the negative . 
Issue No. 8 . In the negative. 
Issue No . 9 : In the negative. 
Issue No, 10 : Does not arise . 
Issue No. 11 : Does not arise . 
Issue No. 12 : In the negativo . 
issue No . 13 : Does not arige . 
Issue No. 14 ; Does not arise . 
Issue No. 16 ; In the negativa 
Issue No. 16 : In the afirmative. Ex , 79 and Ex , 80 are the correot reports 

of what he stated at the Press conference . 
Issue No. 17 : In the negative, 
Issue No. 18 : In the armative , 


5198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II — 


Jseue No. 19: Unnecessary to decide so far as statements by Jagadguru 

Shankaracharya are concerned . So far as Madhu Limaye is con 

cerned , the issue does not survive. 
Issue No. 20 : So far as the statements by Jagadguru Shankaracharya are 

concerned , in the negative ; so far as the statements by Shri Madhu 
Limaye are concerned , the issue does not arise as the alleged state 

ments are not made by him . 
Issue No. 21. No corrupt practice within the meaning of section 123 ( 4 ) is 

Established because the petitioner has failed to establish that 
Jagadguru Shankaracharya is the agent of regpondent No. 1 or has 
made the statements at the press conference with the consent of 
resrondent No . 1 . So far as the statements by Shri Madhu Limaye 
are concerned , the question of commission of a corrupt practice 
does not arise because the statements attributed to him are not 

established . 
Issue No. 22 : Unnecessary to decide . 
Issue No. 23 : In the negative . 
Issue No. 24 ; Does not arise. 
issue No; 25 ; In the negative. 
Issue No . 26 : In the negative . 
Issue No. 27; In the negative . 
Tesu : No. 28 : Does not arise , 
Issue No. 29 ; In the negative 
Issue No . 30 : Does not arise. 
Issue No. 31: In the negative. 
Issue No. 32 ; Does not arise. 
Issue No. 33 : Does not arise . 
Issue No. 34 : In the negative . 
Issue No . 35 : In the negative . 
Issue No . 36 : Does not arise . 
Issue No. 37 : In the negative. 
Issue No . 38 : In the negative , 
Issuo No. 39 : In the negative. 
Issue No 40 : Does not arise , 
Issue No. 41 : In the negative . 
Issue No 42 : In the negative . 
Issue No 43 : In the negative . 
Issue No. 44 : In the negative, 
Issue No . 45 : P . K . Atre is the agent of respondent No. 1 , Jagadguru 

Shankaracharya is not the agent of respondent No . 1 . It is un 
necessary to consider whether Shri Madhu Limaye is the agent of 

respondent No. 1 or not. 
Issue No. 46 : In the negative. 

The result is that the petition is dismissed . 
The question then arises what should be the order of costs and against 
whom the order for costs should be made. Mr, Gurgahani on behalf of the 
petitioner has contended that some of the issues , viz ., issues Nog. 16 , 18 and 45 
( in part ) are answered against respondent No. 1. Therefore , the petitioner 
should not be made to pay the costs at all and each party should be directed 
to bear his own costs . In the alternative , he submitted that the costs of these 
iggues which are decided against respondent No. 1 should be set off against 
the costs that may be awarded to respondent No. 1 . 

The contention , on the other hand, on behalf of respondent No. 1 ls that 
having regard to the statutory provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 
the Court has no discretion in the matter of costs when an election petition is 
dismissed , Mr. Porus Mehta relied upon the provisions of section 119 . That 
section provides. 
119 : " Costs - - Costs shall be in the discretion of the High Court : 
Provided that where a petition is dismissed under clause (a ) of section 

98 , the returned candidate shall be entitled to the costs incurred 
by hire in contesting petition and accordingly the High Court shall 

make an order for costs in favour of the returned candidate ." 
Section 98 deals with the decision of the High Court and clause ( a ) thereot 
deals with an order dismissing the election petition , 


Sec. 3 ( it ) ] THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5199 


It appears on reading the provisions of section 119 together with those of 
section 98 thai. when an election petition is dismissed , the Court has no dig 
cretion in the matter of an order for costs. The provisions of the proviso to 
section 119 are mandatory and they state that where a petition is dismissed 
under clause ( 81 ) of section 98, the returned candidate shall be entitled to the 
costs incurred by him in contesting the petition and accordingly , the High 
Court shall make an order of costo in favour of the returned candidate . The 
provisions being mandatory , no discretion is left with the court in the matter 
of an order of costs when an election petition is dismissed . In view of the 
provisions of the proviso to section 119 , respondent No. 1 will be entitled to 
the costs of this election petition , 

The question then arises, who should be made to pay these costs . It is con 
tended by Mrs. Cloper on behalf of respondent No . 2 that respondent No. 2 
should not be made to pay the costs and if at all the Court is inclined to pags 
an order of costs in favour of respondent No. 1, such an order for costs should 
be made only against the petitioner . It is true that under section 81 of the 
Act a petition calling in question the validity of an election can be presented 
either by a candidate at the election or any elector. The petitioner in the 
present case is an elector and he would be entitled in his own right as an 
elector to Ole an election petition calling in question the election of respondent 
No. 1 as a returned candidate . When a petition is filed by an elector simply 
in his cwr right, a question may possibly arise whether an unguccessful candi 
date at the election , who supported the petitioner at the trial, is liable to pay 
the costs i11 cose the petition is dismissed. In the present case , the evidence of 
respondent No. 2 shows that it was he who decided to adopt legal proceedings 
for challenging the election of respondent No. 1. Respondent No. 2 in his evid 
ence stated that after his attention was drawn to the necessary facts and after 
he consulted persons who knew all election law , he considered whether he 
should adopt proceedings to challenge the election . He himself decided that 
the matter should be looked into to consider the question whether the petition 
should be filled Or not. After study and discussions he asked his workers that 
they should find out whether he should adopt proceedings or somebody else can 
do it. Ultimately he was advised that somebody else should Ale the petition as 
there was enough material for the petition . After discussion with his son - in 
law Mr. Patkar and the petitioner , he knew that he could Ale the petition , but 
it required lot of time and botheration and that is why he did not personally 
file the olection petition . Even at the time when the decision to Ale the petition 
was taken , mind was applied to the question of costs . Respondent No. 2 said that 
when the decision to Ale the petition was taken , he only said that it might 
be filed by the petitioner or by his son - in - law Mr. Patkar or by any other 
person . This evidence of respondent No. 2 shows that the present petition is 
filed by the petitioner as a result of a decision taken by him , (Respondent No. 2 ) 
and that he personally did not Ale the petition himself because it would require 
lot of time and Lotheration , . In his written statement he has supported the case 
of the natitioner and the trial was conducted on a footing as if this was the 
petition both by the petitioner as well as by respondent No . 2 . That being 
the position , both the petitioner and respondent No. 2 will be Hable to pay the 
costs . I, therefore, direct that the petitioner and respondent No. 2 do pay the 
costs of this petition to respondent No. 1 , that while calculating the amount 
of costs , respondent No. 1 will be entitled to advocates fees at the rate of 
Rs. 400 per day & g through out the trial, he was represented by more than 
one advocate . Respondent No. 1 will be at llberty to appropriate towards the 
costs the amount deposited as security for costs during the pendency of this 
petition . 
. The decision in this petition be communicated by the Prothonotary and 
Senior Muster to the Election Commission and to the Speaker of the Lok Sabha 
as provided ir section 103 of the Act. 

Certified to be a true copy . 
This 19th day of March 1968 . 

Sd . / 
For Prothonotary and Senior Master , 


(No. 82 / 8 / BY /67 . ] 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


4200 


THEGAZETTE OFINDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ PART II 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 24th October 1968 
S . O , 3982. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Choudhury 
Mohammad Zahurul Haque of Village Choudhury Manzil, Katihar , District Purnea ( Bihar ) a 
contesting candidate for election to the House of the People from Katihar constituency , 
has failed to lodge an account of his cloction cxpcnscs as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1931, and the Rules made thercander ; 

And whereas the said candidato , cven after duo notico bas not given any reason or 
explanation for the tallure; 

__ Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Cominis 
sion hereby declares the said Shri Choudhury Mohammad Zahurul Haque to be disqualified 
for being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Parlimcntor of the 
Logislativo Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this order , 

[ No. BR- HP/ 23 / 67546 ). ] 


By Order, 
A , N . SEN , Secy . 


गृह मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 1 नवम्बर 1968 
एस प्रो0 3983. - - राष्ट्रपति संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए एतद्वारा निदेश देते हैं कि दिल्ली , हिमाचल प्रदेश तथा पाणिपेरी के उप - राज्यपाल 
तथा मणिपुर और विपुरा के मुख्य पायुक्त निम्नलिखित मामलों से संबंधित नियम बनाने की शक्ति का 
प्रयोग करगे : 

( i ) संबंधित संघ राज्य - क्षेत्र के कार्य के संबंध में अपने प्रशासनिक नियंत्रणाधीन केन्द्रीय 

सिविल सेवानों तथा श्रेणी 1 पदों में भर्ती की प्रणाली ; 
( ii ) ऐसी सेवाओं तथा पदों पर नियुक्ति के लिए आवश्यक अहंताएं और 
( 11i) परिवीक्षा पुष्टि , परीयता तथा पदोन्नति के प्रयोजनों के लिए ऐसी सेवाअों तथा 

___ पदों पर नियुक्त व्यक्तियों की सेवा की शर्ते । 

2. इस निदेश के अनुसरण में बनाये गये परिवीक्षा पुष्टि, वरीयता तथा पदोन्नति से संबंधित 
किसी भी नियम सहित कोई भी भर्तीनियम सघ लोक सेवा प्रायोग के पूर्व-परामर्श के अधीन होंगे । 

3. दो बा दो से अधिक संघ राज्य- क्षेत्रों के नामान्य संवर्ग की सेवाओं तथा पदों पर इस 
अधि सूचना में समाविष्ट कुछ भी लाग नहीं होगा । 


[सं० 24 / 88 / 78 - डी० एव० ( एस ) ] 


आर० सी० जैन, उप सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S . O . 3984. - In exercise of tho powers conferred by the provision to article 309 of 
the Constitution . tho President horoby makes the following rules regulating the conditions 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5201 


of servico of persona allotted under the provisions of section 82 of Punjab Reorganisation 
Act, 1966 (31 of 1966 ) to serve in connection with the affairs of Union in rolation 
to the territory transferred to the Union territory of Himachal Pradesh under section 5 of 
the said Act, namely : - - 

1 . Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) These rules may bo called he Himachal Pra 
desh Allotted Government Servants ( Conditions of Service ) Rules, 1968 . 

(2 ) They shall be deemed to have come into force on tho 1st day of November , 1966 . 

2 . Conditions of service applicable to allotted Government servants. The rules relating 
to conditions of service applicable , from time to time, to those persons who , immediately 
before the commencement of these rules , were employees of the Himachal Pradesh 
Adininistration , shall apply to every person who , immediately before such commencoment, 
was serving in connection with the affairs of the former Ştato of Punjab and who , on or 
after such commencement, has been allotted under the provisions of sub - section (1 ) or 
sub-section ( 2 ) of section 82 of the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 (31 of 1966). 

[ No. F. 8 / 7 / 68 - HMT .] 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 
9 .O . 3985 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by tho proviso 10 Article 309 of the 
Constitution of India , the President herçby makes the following ruleg further to amend 
the Manipur Employces ( Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966. 

2. These rules may be called the Manipur Employees ( Revision of Pay ) Amendment 
Rules , 1968 . 


3 . In schedule to Manipur Employees (Revision of Pay ) Rules, 1966 : — 
Under the heading " Community Development Department" the following entries 

shall be inserted under columns 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively : - - 
30 Assistant Rs. 250 - 25 - 300 - 30 - 450 

Rs. 350 -. - 30 - 500 --- 
Development EB - 30 - 600 - EB - 35 - 800 

EB - 30 - 650 — EB--- 
Commissioner . 

35 - - 1000 . 
INo. 1 / 16 /65- HMT .] 


R . C . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली, 4 नवम्बर, 1968 


सामान्य सांविधिक मियम 3986 - संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परतुक द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए राष्ट्रपति जी एतदद्वारा पंजाब पुनर्गठन अधिनियम 1966 ( 1966 का 
31 वी ) की धारा 82 के उपबन्धों के अन्तर्गत भावंटित व्यक्तियों की उक्त प्रधिनियम की धारा 5 के 
अधीन हिमाचल प्रदेश संघ राज्य क्षेत्र को हस्तान्तरित क्षेत्र से संबंधित संघ के मामलों के सम्बन्ध 
में नौकरी के लिए सेवा की शर्ते नियमित करने के निम्नांकित नियम बनाते हैं ; नामतः : - - 

1. लघु शोध तथा प्रारम्भ : -- ( 1 ) ये नियम हिमाचल प्रदेश प्रांवंटिप्त सरकारी कर्मचारी 
( सेवा की शत ) नियम , 1968 कहे जा सकेंगे । 

( 2 ) वे पहली नवम्बर , 1966 से लागू समझे जायेंगे । 

2 . प्रावंटित सरकारी कर्मचारियों पर लाग सेवा को शत : - - सेवा की शतों के जो नियम 
उन व्यक्तियों पर समय- समय पर लागू हैं जो कि इन नियमों के प्रारम्भ होने से एकदम पहले हिमाचल 
प्रदेश प्रशासन के कर्मचारी थे, वही नियम प्रत्येक ऐसे व्यक्ति पर लागू होंगे जो कि ऐसे प्रारम्भ से एकदम 
पहले भूतपूर्व पंजाब राज्य के मामलों के सिलसिले में नौकरी कर रहा था तथा जिसका ऐसे प्रारम्भ की 


5202 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II — 


fafer at 349 ar the grida ufafanua , 1966 ( 1966 T 3 191) TATT 82 i 34 
ERT ( 1 ) TT ( 2 ) $ 64779 $ grataraFTTTTTTTT 

[FO $ 8/7/67 -gao Ho Sto ] 

पार० सी० गुप्ता , अवर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 6th November 1968 
S . O . 3987. — Whereas the " Unlawful Activities (Prevention ) Tribunal" consisting of Shri 
Justice P . K . Goswami, Judge of the High Court of Assam and Nagaland , constituted by 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No. S . O . 
579 dated the 12th February , 1968 , to adjudicate upon the matter contained in the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs No . 311 dated the 16th 
January, 1968 has completed its work ; 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that the continued existence of 
the said Tribunal is unnecessary ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of thọ powers conferred by sub -scction ( 1 ) of section 5 
of the Unlawful Activities ( Prevention ) Act, 1967 ( 37 of 1967) the Central Government 
hereby directs that the aforesaid Tribunal shall cease to exist with effect from the date of 
publication of this notification . 

[No. 3 / 7 /68 -Poll ( K ) .] 
S . S. VARMA, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME -TAX 

New Delhi, the 31st October 1968 
S . O . 3988 . - In exercise of thc powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of Section 121 of 
the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes 
the following Amendments to the Schedule appended to its Notification No. 20 ( F .No . 
55 / ! /62 - 1T), cated the 30th April, 1963 published as S .O . 1293 on pages 1454- 1457 of 
the Gazette of India Part II Section 3 gub -section (ii ) dated the 11th May , 1963 ag 
amended from time to time : 

I. Against S. No. 9, Madras-I under Column 3 of the Schedule appended thereto : 
" (i) The existing entries agalast items 6 , 7 and 20 shall be deleted . 
(ii) The existing items 8 to 19 shall be renumbered 6 to 17 . 
(iii ) The following entry shall be added : 

“ 18 . Vellore" 
II. Against S . No. 9 - B , Madras II, under column 3 of the Schedule appended 

thereto : 
(i) The existing entries against items 25 and 26 shall be deleted and shall be 

substituted by the following: 
" 25 . Salem - All Circles 

26 . Kancheepuram ." 
( ii ) The following entry shall be added : 

" 27. Hundi Circle I, Madras" . 
This notification shall come into force on the 1st November, 1968 . 

[No. 110 F, No. 55 / 391/68-ITA .MI).] 

S . R . WADHWA, Under Secy . 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5203 


COLLECTORATE OF CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Cochin , the 15th October 1968 
9 . O . 3989. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rute 233 of the Central 
Excise Rules, 1944, I hereby direct that every wholesale dealer in duty paid tobacco , 
including a manufacturer of tobacco product, shall :- - 
(i) kecp scparate accounts of Tobacco assessed at higher and lower rates of duty , 

by maintaining separate E . B . 3 Account Books, or in separate sections of 

the E .B , 3 Books; 
(ü ) stock the Tobacco bags / packagos in an orderly manner, so as to enable easy 

verification of the goods with the balance in the E . B . 3 Accounta. Con 
signments of tobacco received under different transport documents should be 
50 stored that they can be easily identified and distinguished , from each 

other ; 
(iii) where tobacco is delivered under Sale Note or T . P . 1 or sold in retail , he shall 

enter the following particulars on the reverse of the Parent T . P . 1 or Sale 
Note as the case may be : 


Date of issue 


anice 


T . P . I or Sale 
Note Number 
or Retail 

Sales 


No. of 
packages 


Total net 
weight o 
Tobacco 
iseccl 


3 


4 


5 


I 
- - - -- 


(iv ) maintain separate accounts where hc intends to mix lower rated and higher 

rated lots of tobacco in form E .B , 3 ., providing separate sections for different 
varicties and mention the number and date of the relevant transport docu 
ment, the weight of tobacco pertaining to each such document, and the total 
weight of the processed tobacco , on the receipt side . The quantities taken 
for such processing or mixing shall bo debited to the respective accounts 
maintained in respect of the higher rated tobacco and the balance adjusted 
in the accounts , making necessary cross references in the Remarks column. 
Similar remarks shall also bo made on thc T . P . ls or Sale -Notes covering the 
parent consignments or lots : 


(v ) enter the formula of manufacture , on the fly leaf of the E . B . 3 Books showing 

the proportion of tobacco to other ingredients used in the manufacture of 
tobacco - products viz . Hookah tobacco , Snuff etc. and in the case of Biris , 
the types and brands of Biris manufactured and the weight of tobacco uscd 

for thousand Biris of each type or the number of Biris of each type obtained 
from a 1 / 2 K . G . of tobacco . The total quantity of tobacco product manu 
factured or the number of Biris made , will be shown in the remarks column 
of the E .B . 3 Account against the entry for tho issue of the tobacco used , in 

such manufacture ; 
(vi) adjust their book balances in respect of the losses or gains, at least once every 

quarter $ 0 that the balance truly represents the physical stocks . But in 
cases, whero Sale -Notes are issued , the adjustment in respect of gains or 
losses must, however , be made immediately when the consigoment received 

on the A . R . 1 / T . P . 1 is exhausted ; 
( vii ) inake suitable entries in the remarks column of the E . B . 3, in cases where the 

whole leaf tobacco cleared from tho warehouse is intended to be processed 
in the L . 2 premises, Variety , number and act weight of packages of tobacco 
taken for processing , should invariably be shown. Similarly on completion 


5204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II - 


of processing the different varieties with their net weight and number of 
packages obtained or derived after processing , as also the logo / gain noticed 
should be shown in the remarks column of the E . B , 3 , making suitable adjust 
ments in the Accounts . Necessary cotrieg may also be made on the reverso 
of the respective T . P , 1 or Sale Note. Whenever water is sprinkled on the 
tobacco for preservation , the weight of the water added and the date on 
which such sprinkling is done, should be noted in the remarks column of 
the E . B . 3 account; 


(vii ) give prior intimation in writing to the Superintendent of Central Excise, in whose 

jurisdiction , the licensed premises exists, in cases where tho licence intends to 
mix lower rated and higher rated consignments of tobacco or 10 procos 
tobacco received in the duty paid premises in the whole loaf form . 

[No. 7 /68.] 
D . N . KOHLI, Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , MADHYA PRADESH 

AND VIDARBHA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 
Nagpur, the 28th October, 1968 


S . O . 3990 . — In exercise of the powers conferred under Rulcs 15 and 16 of the Central 
Excise Kulcs, 1944 , I hereby notify that in the entire collectorate of M . P . and Vidarbha & 
grower may undertako coffee cultivation up to 12 Arees without giving a declaration under 
Rule 15 of the Central Excise Ralos, 1944 and also in the said arca a curer, may curo 
coffee upto 60 Kgs . without a declaration under Rule 16 ibid . 

[No. 7 / 1968.) 


S . O . 3991. - In exercise of the powers vested in me, under Rules 15 and 16 of the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 , and in superssession of this Collectorate Notification No. 13 / 60 
(Central Excise ) dated the 7th June , 1960 as amended from time to time, I hereby notify 
that a grower may undertake cultivation of Indian Air - cured Tobacco upto an area of 
12 Ares without declaration under Rulo 15 of Central Exciso Rulos, 1944 and a curer may 
cure Indian Air -cured Tobacco upto a limit of 60 Kgs. without declaration under Rule 16 
ibid , within the jurisdiction of Revenue Districts, as mentioned in Col. 2 of the table 
hereto annexed, excepting the villages mentioned in Col. 3 thoreof. 


TABLE 


Sr, 
No . 


Nameof the arca in terms of Royenue Juris - 

diction (i.a. Dlatricts ) 


Names of villages to which the exemption 
under rule 15 and 10 is not applicable 


( 1) 


(2 ) 


I Chhindwara Distt. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


2 Narsingpur Distt, , 


. 


Ambadi, Sangam , Jirola , Lodhikheda , 
Wadegaon , Ambekhapa , Lohani, Ramgari, 
Pareghat , Rajura Khurd , Sawanga , Kar 
makadi, Rampur and Bichwi. 
Supla, Andia , Khamaria , Karayabhula , 

Tarjola , Singrampur, Joharla , Rampendri, 
Got Thire , Hirapur, Hirapur Amda, 
Barman , Ghatpandri, Surajgaon , Chandan 
kheda and Bhawarpan . 

NIL . 
NIL . 
NIL , 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


3 Mandla Distt. 
4. Sconi Distt . 
5 Jabalpur Distt. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5205 


( 1) 


(3 ) 


. 


. 


. 


6 Satna Distt . . 
7 Panna Distt. , 
8 Rewa Distt. , 


. 
. 
. 


9 Sidhi Distt . 
10 Chhattarpur Distt. . 


. 


II Tikamgarh Distt . . 


. 


. 


. 


12 Sahdol Distt . . 
13 Sarguja Distt. 
14 Gwalior Distt . 


. 
. 

, 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
, 


. 
. 
, 


15 


Bhind Distt. 


16 Morena Distt. 
17 Datia Distt. . 


. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


18 Shivpuri Distt . . 
19 Sagar Distt . . . 
20 Damoh Distt . 
21 Vidisha Distt. 
22 Schore Distt . 
23 Raisen Distt. . . 
24 Hoshangabad Distt . 
25 Rajgarh Distt . . 
26 Ralpur Distt . . . 
27 Durg Distt . . . 
28 Raigarh Distt. . 
24 Bilaspur Distt . . 
30 Balaghat Distt. . 
31 Guna Distt. . . 
32 Indore Distt. 


. Kotar . 

NIL . 
Sohagi, Majhgawan , Purwa, Pancha and 
Atraila . 

NIL . 
Dhikpura , Mahraj pur, Urdmau , Don , Tatam 

Chhat tarpur, Manwara, Khaddi, Barigarh 

& Bikarmpur. 
. 

Kargaon , Niwari, Laurgaon , Tikamgarh 

Hiranagar, Minera , Nayakheda and Lidhoh 
. 

NIL , 
. 

NIL , 
Bilati, Parsen , Bhander , Barkisarai, Badera 
Dhanoti, Salon , Nobai, Richar, Sadwara 

and Sirsai. 
Barwa, Teton , Sherpur, Chandokhar 

Endori, Chharcta , Kanipura , Tehra , 
Chimka , Dondri, Mehdoligormi and 
Barbad . 

NIL . 
. 
Data, Unao, Bardwan , Gancshkhçda, Pandrir 
Gondan , Linchla and Jughapur. 

NIL . 
. Khurai , 

NIL . 
NIL , 
NIL . 
NIL , 
NIL , 
NIL . 
NIL , 
NIL . 

NIL , 
Tank Bed Areas, 
. Tank Bed Arcas . 
. Sanwada and Sandkheda . 
. Si rpur, Kanhadia , Chhoti- Betma, Khemana, 

Bhokha -Khedi, Caria , Ankiya , Hatod , 
Indore , Bisankhedi, Semla- Chau , Gehti, 
Morod -Hat, Dhulet, Ujjad Limboda 
gari, Khajraya, Jalalpura, Kagwa, Kai, 
Runji , Atyana, Bhamakheda , Jalodiya , 
Palasia, Akolịya , Semda , Karki, Khatwadi, 
Depalpur, Karwasa , Billod , Khandiya, 
Ujaliya , Girota , Osrod , Pura , Sihoda , 
Manpur, Kankria , Khamod , Pachola , 
Panod , Siloda , Balgara , Bhaulia - Khedi , 
Takun , Mokata , Bisa -khedi, Baghana, 
Barlai , Keshripura , Maulia -Khedi, Tita 
wada, Gaula , Zinda -khedi, Hindoliya , 
Rajoda, Ringonodiya and Pawarda. 


, 


. 


. 
. 


5206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II — 


(1 ) 


(3 ) 


33 Dewas Distt. , 


. 


. 


Sonwani-Gopal, Jawadiya, Mundaheda, 
Khajurla - Parmar , Barkheda -Kayam , 
Aakiya , Dhabla , Tumdawada (Jagdish 
pur ) Salam - khedl, Narkhed , Bagana , 
Saról, Rupatta , Kélod , Merkhedi, Akbar 
pur , Pipliya - Rao , Akhepur, Sajnod -Kheda , 
Begaooni, Soeta -khodi, Bhimakhedi, Kara 
dia , Dakan -khedi, Nawad khedi, Man 
grola , Arniya , Kumardi, Bisakhedt, 
Kumarla - Rao , Bhorraga , Jangipur , Pipliya 
khurd , Magriya , Ganjpura , Mudria , 
Dhabla , Bhatoniparmar , Raloda, Polat, 
Sipwarsi, Jhirwaya , Sawer, Chaqla , Bahu 
lia , Hatpipliya , Semllikheda , Matmore , 
Manasa and Mau -kheda. 

NIL . 

NIL . 
Barnagar , Singarada , Giniwala, Jhampla 

Khandwajura , Bisakheda, Sumaheda , 
Dhaturia , Rinwa, B :3la , Bisaheda and 
all villages of Mahidpur Tehsil . 


34 Shajapur Distt . 
35 Ratlam Distt. 
36 Ujjain Distt . . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


... 


. 
. 


37 Dhar Distt. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


38 Mandsaur Distt. 
39 Jhabua Distt . , 
40 Khandwa Distt. 
41 Khargone Distt . 


. 
, 
. 
. 


. 
, 
. 
. 


. 
, 
. 
. 


. 
, 
. 
. 


. D11n001, Sandrel, Dəngargaon , Bikhron , 

Beganda , PaHavad , Jhakrood , Eklera , 
Bhatpura Mshgaon , Pandhanda , Bagdipura , 
Nimrani, Dol, Dudhi, Gulzara , Dabhar , 
Palasia , Dagaha, Kugumnda, and Mirza 

pur. 
. 

NIL . 

NIL . 
. 

Namagarh and Nachun , 
. Navalpura , Nisarpur, Machalgaon , Aswada, 

Molan , Chanshani , Gozo , Chikalda , 
Khatia , Kubdol, Mohammedpur, Salan , 
Sahabad , Nandra , Khargaon , Mogaon , 
Dirya Kandia , Piplia - ujar, Balsamund , 
Bhilgaon , Pathrar, Mcjampur, Rashidpur , 
Sulgon , Tikariva , Balgaon , Balkhar , 
Silawad, Kagawad , Dahedla , Bagood , 
Pipla ), Piplool, Saigaon , Amlali , Parch 
poola , Taloon , Kundiya , Khedi, Anjad , 
Palassa , Möhipura , Badasha, Sajwai 
Chapri, Sali , Datwada, Zolptpri, Rajpur 
Chakari,Rajpur , Golata , Chichli, Costa & 

Tembla Khand . 
Ankisa , Asarali , Sunkarali , Muttapur , Mulun 

peta , Yella , Manerajaram , Palli, Chikyella , 
Chandaram , Ragunta , Somanpalli, 
Somnoor , Devalmari, Podga , Lathi, 
Shenzao 1 , Narawda , Wirur, Hirapur, 
Aheri, Chicholi , Rulha , Chanoka , 
Dhakori, Murli , Sirpur , Bamni, Ahcri, 

Kandla and Mohogaon , 
, Jalgaon and Ghodegaon , 
, Umarkhed , Milwa, Sangam , Chicholi, 

Chalari, Bilargaon , Digras, Danki, Karan 
ji, D : osari, Sakhora , Sukli , Jawla , D20 

gaon and Janbazar . 
. Bonwada, Telhara , Wadegaon , Basim , 

Tarda, Ascgao .1, Tilwa, Bharjahangir , 
Yeota , Shogri, Kolgaon and Dabball . 


42 Chandrapur Distt. . 


. 


. 


. 


, 


, 


, 


43 Wardha Distt. 
44 Yeotmal Distt . 


, 
. 


45 Akola Distt. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Sec. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 23 , 1890 


5207 


( I ) 


(2 ) 


( 3 ) 


46 Bulihana Disttt. 


. 


47 Nigpir Distt. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


48 Amravati Distr. 


. 


. 


Chikhali , Palarkhedi, Vithalwadi, Sheloo , 
Mera , Gankhed , Jambhurna , Kumbhefal, 
Nipana, Lasura , Dhota , Jaipur , Kham 
gaon , Makta , Pimpalgaon , Devi, Umali 

Khaisa , Kothli and Malkapur , 
. Kamptee Cantt . Khairi, Kelapur, Sitalwadi, 

Mangli Bidbina, Yerkheda, Kachari8g 
wga , Saoner, Timaldo , Raiwadi, Pach 

khedi, Kuhiand Dahegaon . 
, Thugaon , Ner, Badnera , Rama, Abitur 

Afzalpur, Takarkheda, Sambhu, Pasado 
Daatarpur, Narayanpur, Markie , Umartek 
Jalka, Krishnapur, Takarkhoda , Rajna , 
Magrul Chawla , Rasegaon , Wasani- khurd , 
Hantoda, Takarkhede , Murka , Borgaon 
Takli , Kurla , Umari, Mamdabad, Naigaon , 
Wasim -Buzurg , Vadona , Chawla , Yewta 
Khairej, Danoda, Elkie , Jaipur , Takra , 
Chincholi-buzrug , Surji, Kamalpur, 
Taroda , Ramgaon , Darapur , Wadurgun . 
gaye , Rawalgaon and Bhugaon . 

NIL . 
NIL . 


49 Betul Distt . . 
52. Bhandara Distt. 


. 


. 


If the limits of 12 Ares and 60 Kgs . prescribed above are exceeded , it will be obligatory 
on the part of growers / curers to declare the particulars to the proper officer cither personally 
or by Registered post ( A . D .) . 

[No. 8 / 1968.) 
VIPIN MANEKLAL , Collector . 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE 

CENTRAL EXCISE 

Poona, the 30th October 1968 
S . O . 3992 . — Under the second proviso to Rulo 15 and 16 of the Ceatral Exciso 
Rules, 1944 as amended by tho Government of India , Ministry of Finance (Deptt. of 
Revenue ) s Notification No. 119 /60 dated 1st October, 1960 and in superşession of the 
Poona Collectorato Notification No . CER - 1 /61 dated 10th January , 1961, I hereby 
notify the areas shown in the Schedule as sparse growing areas for the purpose of Rules 
15 and 16 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944. In these areas persons cultivating tobacco 
on lands mcasuring 12 Area or leşg in Arca shall be exempted from the provisions of 
Rule 15 and persons curing a quantity of unmanufactured tobacco not exceedlog 
60 (Sixty ) Kilograms shall be exempt from the provisions of Rule 16 . 

The Notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the first day of September, 
1968 . 


Schedule showing of Rule 15 and 16 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 . 


Serial 
No . 


District 


Nime of the 

Taluka Mahul 


Villages exempted under Rule 15 and 16 of tho 

Central Excise Rules , 1941. 


I 


Ninded . 


. Kandhar 


. 


All villages except 


I. Kandhar , 2 . Sonkhed 
3 . Kayatha 


5208 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVÉMBER 16 , 1968/KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART 11 


ULT 


1 


2 


3 


1. Nanded - cond . Mukhed 

Mahal 


. 


. All villages except 


Nanded 


: 


: 


Hadgaon 


. 


Do, 
Do, 


. 


1. Mukramabed . 2 . Ek 

lora , 3 . Motarga , 
I . Nanded . 2 Mudkhed . 
1 . Hihayatnagar , 2 . Ashi 

3 . Hadgaon 4 . Kamari 
5 . Lingapur 6 . Jawal 
gaon , 7 . Kaleshwar 
8 , Pewa. 


. 


. 


All villages 


Bhokar 
Mahal 
Kinwat 
Dagloor 


. 


Do. 


. 
. 


All villages except 


1. Degloor , 2 . Tamloor 

3 . Kawalgaon Chakoor 
5 . Mjalga 6 . Shelgaon 
7 . Madan Kallur 
8 . Narangal 9 . Kokal 
gaon IO . Tadkhed 
II . Shahour 12 . Sanglı 
(Omer ) 13 . Bhaigaon 
14 . Allur 15 . Martoli 
16 . Bhaktapur 17 . 
Karadkhed . 
1, Karla ( BK ) 2 . Savli 

(Bhoji ) 3 . Kaşaralli 
5 . Belkoni (BK ) 
6 . Kondalwadi 7 . Ba 
dur 8 . Koleborgaon 
9 . Belkopi (Ka .) 


Bidoli . 


. 


. 


Do. 


2 Parbhani 


Pathri . 


. 


, 


Do . 


Gangakhet 


Do. 


1, Sailu 2 . Kothala 

3 . Digra (Jagir) 4 . 
Andhapuri 5. Ümbru 
6 . Gogalgaon 7 Am 
begaon 8 . Rampuri 
(Kd.) 9 . Khadgaon 
IO , Hadgaon -Nakhate 
II. Rajewadi 12 . 
Karudgaon 14 . Dha 
mangaon 15 . Rchna. 
I . Gauli Pimpri 2 . 
Mahadpuri 3 . Masala 
4 . Azamabad 5 . Şon 
peth 6 . Wani- Sangam 
7 . Dhasdi 8 , Raorajora 
9 . Dharsura Io , Sirsi 
(BK ) 11. Thadi Ukad 

gaon . 
I . Basmath 2 . Babul 

gaon 3 . Hatta . 
I. Mooda 2 . Bori 3 
Dhanora 4 , Charthana 
5 . Pachalegaon 6 . 
Charnt 7. Dhanora 
8 , Barda, 9 . Wazzal 
10 . Ban II . Karwali 
12 , Kausdi 13 . Ghon 
dhal. 14 . Balsa 15 . 
Rohil Pimpri. 
1 , Mirzapur 2 . Sadegaon . 


Basmath 


Do. 


? Parbhani 


Jintoor , 


. 


, 


Do . 


Parbhani 


, 


Do , 


SEC. 3 (i )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KAR FIK .425, 1890 


5209 


3 


2. Parbhani - contd. Hingoli ] 


All villages except 


Kalamnuri 


. 


Do.] 


Parcur 


. 


, 


Do. ) 


+ Osmanabad 


, Nilanga 


. 


. 


Do. . 


1 , Hingoli 2 . Narsi 

3 . Sengaon 4. Hatta 
5 . Pan -Kanhergkon 
6 . Bramhanwadi 7 . Bod 
kha, 8 . Bhankheda, 
1, Kalamnuri 2 . Donagr 

gaon -Pool 3. Kanegaon 
4 . Kanoll 5 . Nandapur 
6 . Sadegaon 7 . Yele 
gaon -Gauli 8 . Ghoda - 
9 . Sakli to . Takelga 
van 11. Bolda 12 , Polra 
13 . Wadegaon - Kille 
14 . Sawangi 15 . WA 
ranga. 
1 . Rohana 2 . Patodu 
3 . Takli 4 , Wanzola 
5 . Ran - Sawargaon 6 . 
Mapegaon Khurd ) 
7 . Mapegaon (BK ) 
8 . Nansi 9 . Gopergaon 
to , Ashti 11 . Golegaon 
12 , Sankabpuri 13. 
Salgaon 14 . Ambe 
IS . Dhamangaon 

Pimpli. 
I. Nilarga 2 . Usluri 

3. Badur 4 . Kasarbal 
Kunda. 5 . Kusarshirsi 
6 . Chincoli Sayakhan 
7 . Jawaigaon Sauri. 
1. Latur 2 . Takli Brad 
pur 3 . Bhattangalli 
4 . Babulgaon . 
1. Ashta 2 . Wadwal 
3 . Nalegaon . 4 . Janwal, 
5. Chakour. 
1 . Her 2 , Taklı 3. Dhane 
gaon , 4 . Jawalgaon 

s. Devalgaon . 
1, Ralesangvi 2 , Washi 
3 . Walwad 4 . Saram 
kundl, 
1 . Dongaon 2 . Sonari 

3 . Mankeshwar 4 . Donji 
5 , Davalgaon 6 . Jag 
dalwadi 7 . Aleshwar 
8 . Kukadgaon 9 . Mal 
kapur 1o . Parand a 
11. Bagalewadi 12 , 
Ambi 13. Tandulwadi. 
1. Suradi 2 , Osmanabad 
3 . Wadgaon 4 . Deolali 
5 Ruibhar 6 , Kham 
gaon 7 . Wakharwadi 
8 . Dhoki 9 . Ter 10 . PA 
lasap II, Dautpur 
12 , Sangayi 13 . Ke 
megaon . 14 . SA 
mudrawadi 13 . Bembali 


Latur 


. 


. 


Ahmedpur 


. 


. 


Udgir ] . 


- 


Bhoom 


Paranda 


Osmanabad , 


Do . 


5210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part 11 


3 . Osmanabad - contd . 


16 . Padoli 17. Kangra 
18 . Takviki 19 . Ka 
rajkheda 20 . Takli 
Dhoki 21. Umregavan 


. 


Auga 
Kalam 


. 


• All Villages 
. All villages cxcept 


Umaige 


. 


AU villages except 


1. Lokhangaon 2 . Para 

3 . Satra 4 , Khondala 
5 . Kalamm 6 . Ter. 
kheda 7 . Ratnapur 
8 . Tandulwadi 9 . Borda. 
I, Lohara ( BK ) 2 . Mulaj 
3 . Dalimb 4 . Turori 
5 . Dabka 6 . Marum 7 . 
Tugaon 8 . Jeoli 9 . 
Sastoor 10 . Mardt II . 
Kasgiwadi 12 . Omerga 
13 . Kuonali 14 . Bedga 
IS. Guagalgaon 16 . 

Sundarwadi 
I. Kali 2. Wedgaun Kali 

3 . Sawargaon 4 . Ta 
malwadi 5 . -Masla (Kd .). 
6 . Pimpla ( BK ) 7. Rai 
khell 8 . Sindhphal 
9 . Tul,apur 10 . Barul 
II Kategaon 12 . Nal 
durga 13 . Gujanoor . 


Tuljapur 


. 


. 


Do . 


4 . Aurangabad 


, Khuldabad Mehal 

Sillod . . 
Aurangabad . . 
Bhokardhan . . 
Kannad 

. . 


All Villages 
All villagos except 

Do. 
Do. 
Do . 


I. Ajanta 2 Annad , 

1. Kolghar 2 . Pimpar .. 
I . Fettepur, 
I , Hatooor 2 . Ghugur 3 . 

Borsar (BK ) And (Kd) 
4 . Alegion 5 . Takal i 
6 . Vita 7 . Kenadgaon 
(BK ) 8 . Lavali 9 
Rulkhada . 
1 . Pakaskhoda . 


Do. 


Şoogan Mahal , 
Jafarabad Mahal , All villages 
Jalna . . . All villages except 


1. Saygaon 2 . Mahjar 
gaon 3 . Wahegaon 
7 . Wakulni 5 . Chikhali 
Rajur 6 . Dhamangaon 
7 . Hlwra 8 . Roll& 
9 . Dongarveoli 10 . 


Dhagi 


Paithan 


, 


Do . 


I , Akhatwada 1 . Ape 

gaon 3 . Aurangpur 
4 . Avadi- Unchegaon s . 
Dadhegaon (BK ) (KD ) 
& Jagir 6 . Dalwadi 
7. Lawarwadi 8 . Gan 
galyadi 9 . Hiradouri 
Io . Jogeshwari 11 , 
Kausan 12 . Kollbodak 
13. Krishnapus 
14 . Lamgavan 15 
Maigon 16 . Mavasga 
van 17. Miraklied 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5211 


4 . Aurangabad - contd . 


18. Naigaon 19. Narla 
20. Navgaon 21. Pai. 
than 22 , Patogaon 
23. Pimpalwadi 24 . 
Shekta 25 . Takali 
Amhad 26 , Shevta 
27 . Telwadi 28 . Uche 
gaon 29 . Wadwali 30 . 
Waghadi 31 . Wahegaon 


Gangapur 


. 


. 


AU yillages except 


I, Agarwadgaon 2 . Anal 
ner 3. Aurangapur 
4 . Bagdi 5. Bhagthen 
6 . Bhalgaon 7 . Dhore 
gaon 8 . Dighi 
9 . Dhamori (BK ) & 
(KD ) 10 . Gadlimb 
11. Haibtpur 12, 
Jamgaon 13 . Jikthan 
14 . Jogeshwari 15 . 
Kacgon 16 . Lakham 
pur 17. Mahe 
laxmikheda 18. Malun 
ja BK 19 Mandwa 
20, Mendhi 21. Narsing 
pur 22 . Nawabpur 23. 
Navargaon 24 . Rorair . 
25. Saokheda 26 . Shan 
korpuri 27. Shendur 
wadhe 28 , Solegaon 
29 . Tandulwadi 30 . 
Tembhapuri 31. Uttar 
wadi 32 . Vajar 
33 . Yesgaon , 


Ab 


Ambad . 


. . 


Do 


1, Patharwala ( B & K ) 

2 . Gondi 3 . Zipri 
4 . Hasanpur 5 . Kothala 
6 . Ganga Chincholi 
7 . Sadegaon 8 . Raja 
takall 9 . Anterwali 
Tembhi, io , Goonj II. 
Murti 12. Jamb 13 . 
Donalgaon 14 . Dori 
15 . Gandbar ! 16 . Sasti 
Pimpalgaon 17 . Nale 
wadi 18 . Anterwoli 
Sasti 19 . Taka 20 . 
Jamkhed 21. Chinch 
kheda 22 . Shahapur 
23 . Dadhegaon 24. 
Pimpalgaon ( Soni) 
25 . Ranlunchegaon 
26 . Mangu Jalgaon 
28 . Dahipuri 28 . Saraf 
gayan 29. Awalgaon 
30 . Hadgaon 31 , Ka 
ranjana 32. Dahithana 
33 . Chikangaon 34 . 
Deshgavan 35 . Maha 
Bahegaon 36 . Badapur 
37, Ranjani 38 . Ranjan 
wadi 39 Paradgaon , 


5212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II 


- - 


4 . Aurangabad - contd . 


Vaijapur 


All villages except I. Babulgaon (BK ) 

2 . Babulgaon Ganga 
3 . Bhagur 4 . Borsar 
5 . Veergaon 6 . Wan 
jargaon 7 . Nandu 
dhhok 8 . Saokhoda 
Ganga 9 . Purangaon 
10 , Pathari il. Mandki 
12 . Lakhni 13 . Chon 
dalgaon 14 . Sitargeon 
15 . Chorwar gha) gron 
I . Babulgaon (Kd ) 
17 . Kangoni 18. Chon 
dhphal 19 . Nadi 
20 . Jalgaon 21. Mali 
saga ) 22 . Khambala 
23. Narayanpur 24. 


Taklişagaj. 


5. Bhir 


. 


, Kaij 


I . Bharus 2 . Kalj 3 . Na 
durghat 4 . Kother 
band 5 . Dhunkwad 
6 . Kandi Mall 7 . Bopla 
8 . Lakha 9 . Kopara 
ro . RujDharur 11. Vida 
12 . Aadas 13 . Şonija 
wale . 


Patoda Mahal 


I . Nandewali 2 . Rales 
engvi 3 . Sawargaon 
(Chakda ) 4 . Rangari 
5 . Rakshaghuvan 6 . Rai 
moh 7 . Nalgaon 
8 . Chumtali 9 . Amalner 
10 . Shirpurghat II . P . 
dali. 

1. Parali 2 . Kharola 
3 . Ambajogai 4 . Deola 
5 . Khol Kanadi 
a . Ghat Nandur 
7 . Pangaon 8 . Pangar 
9 . Talegaon 10 . Sarad 
gaon il . Dharampuri. 


Myminabad , 

Ambejogai ) 


Georai . 


. 


1, Aherwahegaon 2 . Kan 
nad Pimpalgaon 
3 . Madalmohi 4 , Chi 
khali 5. Wadgaon 
6 . Sushi 7 . Sirasmarg 
8 . Takalgavan 9 . Ukad 
pimpri jo . Darwanti 
11. Tandola 12 . Phul 
gangvi 13 . Bhojgqon 
14 . Antarwali (Bk ) 
IS . Bori Pimpalgaon 
16 . Rakshasbhuvan 
17. Surlegaon 18 . Macl 
gaon (KD ) 19 . Umapur 
20 , Savargaon 21, 
Katchincholi 22 . Mir 
gaon 23 . Bhogalgaon 
24. Shinkheda 25 . 
Nandalgaon 26 . 
Hirapur 27 . Dondrei 
28 . Padalingi 29 . Itkur 


SBc . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5213 


3 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


5. 


Bhir -- contd . 


All villages except 


Bhir 


. 


. 


. 


Do, 


30 . Chakalamba 31, 
Mudhapuri 32 . Pokhari 
33 . Kholgaon 34 . Sa 
waleshwar 33 . Georai 
36 . Mahalas Pim 
palgaon 37 . Ranmala 
38 , 

Devpimpri 
39 . Gulaj 40 . Pathar . 
wala (BK ) 41. Gunt 
gaon 42 . Maturi 
43 . Pimpala 44 . Gaik 
wad Jalgaon 45 . Bag 
Pimpalgaon 46 . Kambi 
47. Kurampimri 48 . 
Chaklaborgaon , 
1 . Chaogala 2 . Tandula 

vadi 3 . Nandur 
(Havell) 4 . Hingni 
Haveli 5 . Kurle 
6 . Aurangpur 7 . Kini 
(Pai) 8 . Malpuri 9 . 
Goshapuri 1o . Kukad 
gaon II . Adgaon 
12 . Ramagaon 13 . Na 
thapur 14 . Bhir 15 . Bor 
taka 16 . Pargaon Siras 
17 . Bellura 18 . Devi 
Babulgaon 19. Shivani 
20 . Ambilwedgaon 
21. Palgingan 22 . Pim 
pergavaon 23 . Umrad 
Jahangir 24, Sundana 
25 . Yellan Ghat 
26 . Namalgaon 27 . Pan 
gari, 


Ashti 


, 


Do . 


I, Dahithan 2 . Takal 
singi 3 . Sangvi ( Asti) 
4 . Khadkat s . Balewadi 
6 . Ashti (Harinarayan ) 
7 . Pimparighat 8 . Shirad 
9 . Shirapur 10 . Kada 
II , Sabalkhed 12 . Am 
bhora 13 . Hatloon 
14 . Koyal Ig . Loni 
( S . Mir) 16 . Nandaor 
17. Delgaonghat 18 . 
Sawargron 19 . Velturi 
20 . Sulemandevia 21. 
Piparkhed 22 , Devi 
Nimgaon 23 . Pathan 
24. Ghat Sangwi (Patan ) 
25. Chinchala 26 , 
Bhorodi 27 . Undirkhed 
28. Pimpalsutti 29 . 
Wagluj 30 , Waluni 31. 
Pimpelgaonghat, 
I . Kavadgaon Huada 
2 . Acharc Takli 3 . Deo 
kheda 4 , Ekdant 
5 . Kayadgaon BK 
6 . Talkhed 7 . Mangrul 
8 . Chatra Borgaon 


Manjlegaon 


Do, 


5214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 


I 


5. Bhir - concld . 


9. Sadola 10 . Mali 
Pargaon II , Sawar 
Pimpalgaon 12 . Ganga 
Masala " 13 . Mogra 
14 . Nithrid 15 . Dindid 
16 . Manylegeon 17 
Limlegaon 
Pathurd 19 . Kuppa 
20 . Manjarath 21. 
Abegaon 22 . GR 
Vanthadi 23. Takr Van 
24. Wasola 25. Digres 
26 . Roshanpuri 27 . 
Kalegaon 28. Dubatha 
di 29. Purushottempuri 
30 , Khadgaven 31. Rc 
vali. 


6 


Jalgaon 


Jalgaon 
Pachora 
Amalner 
Parola 
Erandol 


All villages 

Do. 
Do. 


Do. 


All villages except 


Chopda 
Bhusawal 
Jamaer 
Raver 
Yawal 
Edalabad 
Peta 
Chalisgaon & 

Badgaon 


Do. ? 
All villages 
• All villages except 

All villages 
All villages except 
All villages 


1, Erando) 2 . Toli 

(Erondol) 3 . Borgaon 
4 . Bokani S. Bhambori 

(Toli ) 
1. Chopda 
1. Jemaer 2 Hiwarkhede 
J. Sakall 


All villages except 


I, Rokada 2 , Vadada 3 . 

Vadaſi 4 . Bhadgaon 
5 . Tongaon 6 . Varkhed 
7 . Umarkheda 8 , Load 
9 . Gondgaon ro . Shiva 

II , Khedgaon 
12 . Junadri 


7 Dhulia 


. 


All 


villages 


Do. 
Do. 


villages 


Do. 


Do, 


00 
. 


Do. 
villages 


8 Nastk 


. 


. 


All 


Taloda 
Shahade 
Shirpur 
Sindkhede 
Sakri 
Dhulla 
Nayapur 
Akkalkuva 
Akarani Mahal 
Nandurbar 
Niphad 
Yeola . 
Nasik . 
Malegaon 
Igatpuri 
Dindori 
Chandor 
Kalyan 
Baglan 
Nandgaon , 
Paint Mahal 
Surgana Mahal 
Sinnar 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do . 


Do. 
. 

Do. 

Do. 
. All villages except 


1. 


Chag. 2 . Keseinad 
3 Soncwadi 


SEC. 3 ( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5215 


Ahmednagar . Ahmednagar 


. 


Do, 


Pathardi 


. 


. 


Do . 


1. Chinchodi Pati 

2 . Sakat (Kd) 3 . Ralen 
gan ) 4 . Sarola 5 . Val 
unj 6 . Kadgaon 7 . Tand 
8 . Walki 9 . Bholegao 
10 . Kudgaon 11. Jal 
12 , Bhatodi (Paragon ) 
13. Parwadi 14 , Shandye 
15 . Baburdi Ghumat 
16 . Ukkadgaon 17 . 
Mandhwa 18 . Nalegaon 
19 . Chawran Budruk . 
20 . Maliwadi 21. Cha 
waran (Khurd ) 22 , Bhin 
gar 23 , Burudgaon 24 . 
Wakodi 25 . Ranini 26 . 

Khurjune 27 . Dahigaon 
1. Karanji 2 . Renkaiwadi 

3 . Moboj (Kd) 4 . 
Dongarwadi 5 . Kolhar 
6 . Koradgaon 7 . Shira 
pur 8 , Kharwandi 9 . 
Pimpalgaon 10 . Kalas , 
Pimpri II, Tandall 
12. Akola 13, Khand 
gaon 14 . Bhhulgaon 
Vaiju 15 . Kaudgaon 
(Athare ) 16 . Pimpalgaon 
Tapa 17 . Tisgaon 
18, Kadgaon 19 . Lohsar 
20 . Joarwadizr. Sonthap 
22. Siral Chehondi 

Mohi Devle . 
24 . Mohoj BK 25 . Gite 
wadi 26 . Mitsongawi 
27. Dule Chandgeon 
28 . Satwad 29 . Mali 
Babulgaon 


Akola 


. 


Al villages except . 


I. Mahenduri 2 , Un 

chkbedak (BK ) 3 . Au 
rangpur 4 . Kalas (Kd) 5 . 
Vithe 6 . Nilyandi 
7 . Chas 8 . Tambhal 
9 . Dongergaon 10 .Mano 
harpur II. Sultnapur 
12 . Pipaldari 13 . Dhu 
malwadi 14 . Thiigaon 
(Kd) 19 . Thug pn (Bk ). 
16 . Kotul 17 . Dharan 
geon -Pat 18 . Deothan 
19 .Kolas ( BK ) 20 . Bogrex 
21. Akola 22 . Ganora , 
23. Parkatpur. 


Newasa 


. 


. 


Do . 


I . Newaga (Kd ) 2 . Nweaga 

(BK ) 3 . Jainpur 4 . Bhal 
gaon S . Ghogargaon 
6 . Chinchblan 7 . Karl 
gaon 8 . Punatgaon 8 . 
Pachgaon 9 . Imampur 
10 . Tamaswadiri, Khar 
wandi 12 . Hingoni 13 . 
Kangoni 14 . Washim , 


5216 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTKA ? 5, 1890 [PART 11 — 


I 


2 


9 . Ahmednagar - -contd , 


Shevguon 


15. Bodhegaon 16 . 
Murma 17 . Pravara 
jangam 18 . Toka 19 . 
Wakdı 20. Mangalpur 
21. Galnimb 22 . War 
khed 23 . Ramdoh 24 . 
Tuljanur 25 . Gidegaon 
26 . Ustal Khalasa 27. 
Kalegaon 28 . Singwe 
Tukai 29 . Kaatha 30 . 
Mahalaxmi Hirne 
31. Maka 30 . Rajegaon 
31. Dedgaon 32 . Deo 
gaon 35 . Ranjangaon 

36 . Amalner. 
All villages except 1, Dhorside Antre 

3 .Samahgaon 4 .Wadulc 
( Bk ) 5 . Malogaon 6 . 
Dhor - Jalgaon 7. Shaha) 
pur 8 . Bhagur 9 . Shco 
gron 10 . Jorapur 
II. Karjat ( Bk ) 12 . 
Bhor Chadgaon 13 . 
Ghewari 14 . Hingaon 
gaon 15 . Nihali 
16 . Nampur 17 . Agar 
Nandur 18 , Kherdi 
19 . Gaikwadi Jalgaon 
20 . Warur Bk . 21. 
Waru (Kd) 22 . Sukuli 
23. Kambi 24 . Lakdhe 
phal 25 . Hatgaon 26 . 
Guglegaon 27 . Mungi 
28 . Chepadgaon 29 . 
Kharadgaon 30 . Akhe 
gaon 31. Rancgaon 
32. Golegaon 33 . 
Adhodi 34 . Dewane 
35 . Nimbori 36 . Dahe 
gaon (NE ) 37 . Ran 
jani 38 . Shahar Takli ) 

39 . Amrapur. 
Do. 

I, Dhandarphal (BK ) 
2 . Dhandarphal (Kdy 
3 . Nandul-Dumala 4 . 
Kasara Dumala 5 . 
Kautha Dhandarphal 
6 , Amnepur 7 . Vad 
ga $ a -Pan 8 . Kohtwadi 
9 . Nimgaon - Tali 10 . 
Waghapur II . Shira 
pur 12 . Anbl-Khalaga 
13. Ghargaon 14 . Man 
dve 15 . Sakur 16 . Pem 
giri 17 . Nimgaon (BK ) 
18 Nimgaon (Kd ) 19 . 
Sangawi 20 . Sawarchol 
21. Wadgaon - Landge 
22 . Sangamner 23 , 

Umbari 24 . Pendidi. 
Do. 

1 . Satcphal 2 . Shiur 
3. Mannal (Nannajwadl) 
4 . Jawala 5 . Agni 6 . 
Chondi 7 . Pimpalkhed 


Sangamner 


Jamkhed . 


- 


Sec. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5217 


9 . Ahmednagar - contd . 


Parnes 


, 


. 


All villages except. 


Karjat . . 


Kerjat 


Do. 


Do. 


8 . Arangaon 9 . Ghode 
goon Io . Sarola IT , 
Padali 12 . Dighol 13 . 
Jamked 14 . Khand 
gaon . 
1 . Malkup 2 , Randha 3 . 
Palwe (Kd) 4 . Malwani 
5 . Bhalwani 6 . Astgaon 
1. Sitapur 2 . Nagapur 
3 . Nagalwadi 4 . Bham 
bora 5 . Thugaon 
6 . Hingangaon 7 . Ambi 
Jalgaon 8 . Miralgaon 
9. Nimgaon (Bk ) 10 . 
Nimgaon (Kd ) 11 . 
Kambali 12 . Belgaon 
13 . Dighi. 
1. Kokanthan 2 . Puntamba 
3 . Nategaon 4 . Rujaya 
Dahukh 5. Dhotro 
6 . Kopergaon 7 . Koper 
gaon Bet. 
1. Nawoor 2 . Mathithal 
3 . Kolhar 4 . Undergaon 
5 . Jallamhol 6 . Rampur. 


Kopergaon 


Shriampur 


. 


Rahuri 


Shirgonda , 


. 


IO Sholapur , 


Pandharpur , 


. 


Malşiraa 


Mangalwdha 


1 , Sade 2 . Waghola 
3 . Akheda, 
1 , Hangewai 2 . Shrigonda 
3 . Chimbalc 4 . Yelpane 
5 . Arvi 6 . Anagar 7 . 
Sangvi 8 . Mandavgann 
9 . Banpimpari ro Pimpal 
gaon II. Kautha 12 , 
Ghogargaon 13 . Tondoli, 
1. Bhalwani 2 . Ambe 
3 . Nipatgaon 4 . Degaon 
5 . Pulujwad . 
1. Pilliv 2 . Karand 3 . 
Dharampuri 4 , Akluj, 
I. Mangalwedha 2 . Dhar 
am - gaon 3 . Machnur 4 
Dikshal 5 . Tamderdi 6 . 
Mundewadi 7 . Borali 
8 . Nimborni. 
I. Rajapur 2 . Amjale 3 . 

Naga ). 
I, Bhalewadi 2 . Karanje 
3 . Khambewadi 4 . Kara 
mala 5 . Mirajwal 6 
Borgaon , 7 . Dilmeyan 
8 , Khadki 9 . Bitergaon 
10 . Potegaon II. Balc 
wadi 12 . Pophalas, 
1. Madha a. Temburni 
1. Barsi 2 . Korphale 3 . 
Malwandi 4 . I rle 5 . 
Upale 6 .Hatiz 7. Gond.. 
wan 8 . Balgaon 9 . Kasbe 
( Tadwale ) IO Sakat 
( Pimpri) II . Yedsi 


Sangola 


Karamala . 


. 


Do. 


Madha 
Barsi 


. 


. 


Do. 


5218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II — 


10 Sholapur - contd . 


12 . Aljapur 13 . Bhetmbre 
14 . Zadi 15 . Puri 16 , 
Dhanore 17 . Janpur 18 . 
Mundewadi 19. Kawe 
20 . Pangaon 21 . Halduge 
21. Raulgaon 


North Sholapur 
South Sholapur 
Mohal 
Akkalkot . 


All villages 

Do, 

Do . 
All villages except 


. 


1. Akkalkot 2 . Hannur 

3 . Barhanpur 4 . Dudhani 
5. Sinnar 6 , Jeur 7 . 
Karalgi 8 . Mangrul 9 . 
Dahitanc fo . Chapal 
gaon II. Nanhegaon 
12 . Kajika u bus 
13 . Udgai 14 . Tolnur 
15 . Maindargi26 . Salagør 
1 . Adoul 2 . Nisre 3 . Mal 

harpeth 4 . Navdi. 


1 


Satara 


. 


. 


Patan 


Do . 


Satara 
Phaltan 


. 


. 


All villages 

Do, 
Do. 





Khandala . 


(Petha ) 
Karad 


All Villages except 


I . Kasr Sirume 2 . Wather 

3 . Kale 4 . Belwade s . 
Malkhed 6 . Retre (Kd) 
7 . Kalwade 8 . Ond 9 . 
Nandgaon 10 . Masur 
II. Úndale 12 . Atke 
13. Salshirmbe 14 . 
Mandu 15 . Wing 16 . 
Goleshwar 17 . Kapil 
18 , Nandlapur 19 . Chce 
gion 20. Potale 21. 
Yenke 22 . Pane 23 . 
Kirpe 24. Tombye 25 . 
Satur 26 Warnjce 27 . 
Yerale 28. Kolewadi 
29 . Kugur 30 . Kole 31 . 
Ambawade 32 . Karad 
33 , Mundire 34 . Karye 
35 . Gotc 36 . Shenoli 
37. Shere 38 . Kakawadi 
39 . Retre ( BK ) 40 . Parle 
41 . Koparde 42 . Bang 
wadi 43 . Wadgaon 44 . 
Magur 45 . Chikhali 
46 . Kirpade 47 . Wadu ) - 
bhikeshwar 48 . Sapnc 
49. Mhopare so. Velh 
SI. Nisure 5z . Mauli 
53 . Ghoshi 54 . Wuha 
gaon 55 . Hur goli 56 . 
Korti 57. Wadgaon 
58 . Shirgaon 59 . 
belwadi (N ) 60. Kodoli 


. 


All villages 

Do. 
Do. 


Man . 
Jaoli . 
Mahableshwar 
Wai . 
Khatay 
Koregaon 


. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Sec. 3 (* ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5219 


12 Poona 


· All villages 


Hayeli 
Shirur 
Baramati 
Indapur 
Dhond 


Do . 
Do. 


Pur 


, 


, 


Do. 
All villagts except 


1. Khanota 2 . Lonarwad 

3 . Rajegaon 4 . Hingni 
berdi. 


. 


Maval 
Musli 
Bhor 
Purandur 
Khed 
Velhę 
Junnar 


All villages 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


:: 


Do. 


. 


. 


Do. 
All villages except 


I. Ottur 2 . Pipalwadi 3 . 

Alc 4 . Belha 5 . Rajuri 
6 . Bori (Bk ) 7 . Bori (Kd) 
8 . Vadegaon (Anard ). 


Ambegaon 


All villages 


13 Kolhapur . 


. 


Shahuwadi . 
Pandala Mahal 
Bhudargad 
Chandgad . 
Ajra Mahal 
Bavada Mahal 
Radhanagari 
Gadhingaon 


, Do. 

Do . 

Do. 
All villag s except 

Do. 
. All villages 

Do. 
. All villages except 


I. Trimad . 
1. Bhairewade . 


I . Gidhinglaj 2 . Dundga 

3 . Hebbal 4 . Nelji 5 . 
Mutnal 6 .Hitni 7 . Hagur 
champu 8 . Madal 
9 . Hanim nal 10 . Auranal 
II . Shendri 12 . Giza 
wana 13 . Belgundi 
14 . Jakkewadi 15 . Bek 
nal16 . Kadegaon 17 .Nul 
18 . Jarali 19 . Mugali 20 . 
Bhadgaon 21. Chaneku 
ppi 22 . Khamlchatti 
23 . Tanawadi 24 . Harli 
Budruk 25. Harli 
Khurda 26 . Warang 
wadi 27. Haninghal 28 . 
Chinchwadi 29 . alkarni 
30 . Kadalgo 31 . Nag 
noor 32 . Aralg Indi 33. 
Basarge 34 . " Basrage 
(KD ) 35. Tadargucchi 
36. Chandenkud 37 . 
Kumbalhai 38 , Khan 
dal 39 . Terani 40 . 
Karvaljkatti 41 . Bugadi . 
katti 42 . Nandanwad 
43. Manwad 44. Mana 
purį. 


Kagal 
Karvir 


. 
. 


. All villages . 
. All villages except . 


1. Sangvade 2 . Halgavade 

3 . Vasgade 4. Gad 
Mudgingi 5 . Uchgaon 
6 . Nerlí 7. Tamgaon 
8 . Kanheri. 


5220 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II - 


13 . Kolhapur - -contd . Harkanangale 


All villager 


, 


1. Pattannkodoli 2 . Ingal 

3 . Kumbhoj 4 . Hingan 
gaon 5 . Nej 6 . Alte 
7 . Narande 8 . Vathar 
9 . Kochi ro . Bhendvade 
II. Ninche 12. Bhandole 
13 . Vadgain 14 . Kini 
15 .Ghunki 16 . Talsande 
17 . Padli 18 . Ambap 19 . 
Vathar ( M ) 20. Top 21. 
Vadgaon .( B ) 27. Nagaon 
23. Halondi 24 . Chan 
dur 25. Rui 26. Rukadi 
27- Kabnur 28. Tilvani 
29. Ichalkaranjizo .Koro 
chi 31 , Tardal 32 . Hat 
kanangale 33 . Majale 
34 . Mangaon 35 . Hupri 
36 . K . Sangov 37 . M . 
Sangav 38. Rendal 39 .. 
Rangoli 40 . Jangarwad 
41. Talandge 42. Yal-- 

gud . 
I. Madgyal, 
1. Upale 2 . Yetgaon 3 . 

Ambak 4 . Balavadi 5 . 
Nagavadi 6 . Kadegaon 
7 . Deorastrc 8 . Chikal 
kole 9 . Gharnikbi IO . 
Kharsundi II . Zhare 
12 . Atpaidi 13 . Gaur 
wadi. 


14 Sangli 


Jath 


. All villages except. 
Khanapur (Includ 

, 
ing Atpadi Mahal) 


Do. 


Shirala Mahal 
Tasgaon 


. All yillages . 
. All villages except. 


Miraj Kauthe 
Manval 


. All villages except. 


1. Bhilwadi 2 . Vasagade 

3 . Bramhanal 4 . Khatay 
5 . Kawathe ( e ) 6 . Shir 
gaon ( K ) 7 . Burli 8 . 
Tasgaon , 9 . Nagaong. 
( K ) 10 . Bendriir . Bore 
gaon 12. Shirgaon V ): 
13 . Nagaon (N ) 14 . 
Dhavli 15 . Turchi 16 . 
Kumtha 17 . Dhulgaon 
18 . Mane- Rajuri 19 . 
Nagrale 20 . Kundal 

21 . Gawan , 
I. Desing 2 . Haroli 3 

Kharsing 4 . Alkud 5 . 
Shirdon 6 . Borgaon 7 . 
Kuktoli 8 . Dudhagaon 
9 . Sawalwadi 10 .Mola 
kumbhoj II. Sone iz . 
Bhose 13 . Putgaon 14 . 
Karoli Soni 15 . Salagre 
16 . Arag 17 . Bolwad 18 , 
Bedag 19 . Belanki 20. 
Dhavli 21. Erondole 22. 
Gundewadi 23 .Khan 
derajuri 24 , Khatav 25 . 
Lingnoor 26 . Malegaon 
27 . Mahigal 28 . Male 
yadi 29 . Narwad 30 . 
Shipoor 31. Takli 32 . 
Waddi 33 . Miraj 34 . 
Nilje 35. Kupawadh 


Src . ( 11 ) ] THT GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963/KARTTK 125 , 1890 


522 


I 


14 Sangli- - contd . 


36 . Kolambi 37 . Kanad 
wedi 38 . Manmodi 39 . 
Suwal 40 . Kakededi 41 . 
Aukali 42. Bamni 43 . 
Dhemni 44 . Tanding 
45. Nanduri 46 . Semdoli 
47. Mulje Digrej 48. 
Karnal 49 . M Sangali 
wadi 50 . Kavalpur 51. 
Sanglı 5z . Bigur 53 . Heri 
pur 54 Kharkarwadi ss . 
Sambarwadi 56 . Rasul 
wadi 57 . Budhgaun 58 . 
Padmale 59 . Madhav 
nagar 60 . Kasbc Digras 
61. Ting 62 . Kuvtha 


Piran . 


Wulva Taluka 


All villages except . 


1. Petlı 2 . Kameri 3 . Yeder - 

pani 4 . Tundillwadi 
5 . Bahadurwadi 6 . Kane 
pion 7 . Sur ) 8 . Ozurde 
9 . Pathare Dharan 10 . 
Urun il. Gempur 12. 
Kapuskhed 13 . Rethare 
Harnay 14 . Sakhralo 15 . 
Babe 16 . Kasegaon 17 . 
Shene 18 . Waregion 
19 . Tambre 20 . Nerla 
21. Kedarwudi 22. Kala 
wadı 23. Bhatwadi 24 . 
Dhotrowadi 25 . Yewal 
wadı 26 . Buhewedi 27 
Satpcwadı 28 . Pharne 
wadi 29 . Ashta 30 . Bagni 
31. Pokharni 32. Shi 
gaon 33 . Nagaon 34 . 
Koreguon 35 . Gorkaindi 
36 . Bavchi 37. Walwa 
38. Shivgaon 39. Bhau 
kimbe 40 . Galarwili , 


15 Ratnagiri 


All villages 

Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Malangan 
Pepoli 
Khed 
Guhagar 
Chiplun . 
Ratnagiri 
Sangemeshwar 
Lanja 
Вајарил 
Deogad 
Kankawuli 
Malwan 
Kudel 
Vonpurla 
Sawantwadi 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


16 . Thana 


. All villages 


Do. 


Dhanu . 
Mukhada , 
Jawar 
Wada 
Palghar . 
Bensin 


Do . 


5222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA NOVEMBER 16, 1968/KARTIKA 25, 1890 (Taasil 


= 


= 


= 


= 


16 . Thane contd . 


Do . 


Bhiwandi , All villages 

Shahapur 
Murbad . . 

Do. 
Kalyan 

Do. 
Talsari (Mahal) . 
Karjat . All villages 
Panyel 

Do. 
Urga 
Khalapur . 

Do. 


Do. 


17 . Kolaba 


Do . 


Pen 


Do. 


Allbag 
Sudhgad 
Roha 
Murud 
Mangaon , 
Shrivardhan 
Mhusela 
Mahad 
Poladpur . 


Do. 


[NO. CER 9/68.] 
D . N . LAL , Collector, 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI 


CENTRAL EXCISES 


Delhi, the 4th November 1988 


S . O . 3993. [ o exercise of sthe powers conferred by Rules of the Central Excise Rules , 
1914 , I ,Cllector of CentralExcisē , Delhi, hereby empower the Central Excisc Officers not below 
th : rank spscified in Column ( 2 ) of the following table , to cxercise within their respective jurisdic 
tions in th : C : ytral Excise Collectorate , Delhi, the powers of the Collector under the Central 
Excisc Rules mentioned in Column ( 3 ) of the said table , subject to the limitations set out in 
Column ( 4 ) thereof ; 


TABLE 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


S . 


Rank of Officers 


Cintral Excise 

Rules 


Limitations 


3 


1, A1919tant Collector 


52A 


To authoriọc rcmovals on documents , 

other than Gate Pasy in gtatutory form , 
provided the other documents so approved 
should contain all information as in the 
statutory form of Gate Pass . 


2 . 


Axviqliknit Collector. 


173G ( 4 ) 


To grant exemption from maintaining 
account in R . G . 1 . ( for 899esstes workirig 
under the self Removal Procedurc ) , in 
cage an asse98cefis maintaining satisfactory 
private accounts from which all inform 
ario .2, as required in the above R . G . I 
can he really obtained. 


[No. 9 /68 .] 
R . PRASAD , Collector. 


SEC. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 10, 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 


$ 223 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

CARDAMOM CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 29th October 1968 
9 . O . 3994.- - In exerciso of the powers conferred by şub -section (3) of section 4 of the 
Cardamom Act, 1965 (42 of 1965), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S . N . 
Agrawal, Assistant Financial Adviser, Ministy of Finance (Commerce Division ) as a member 
of the Cardamom Board in the place of Shri R . Mahadevan , Deputy Secretary , Ministry 
of Finance (Commerce Division ) who has resigned from the membership of the Board and 
directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Commerce No. S . O . 1200 , dated the 14th April, 1966 , 
namely 

In the said notification , for the catry in the first column against serial No. 8, the 
following entry shall be substituted , namely : 
" Shri S . N , Agrawal, Assistant Financial Adviser, Ministry of Finance (Commerce 
Division ), New Dolhi." 

[No. F . 29 (21) / Plant ( B ) / 64 .] 
B . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Socy . 


(Оfice of the Chlef Controller of Imports and Parports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd July 1968 
8 .O . 3995,- In exercise of the powers conforted by Clause 9 of the Imports ( Control) 
Order, 1955 dated 7th December, 1935 as amended , tho undersigned hereby cancels tha 
Exchange Control Purpose Copy of import licence No. G / AU / 1035224 / C / XX / 27 / CH /26 
dated 19th April, 1968 for the import of 10 cases of Scotch Whisky valued at Rs. 1100 / 
issued in favour of the Ministry of External Affairs, New Delhi. 

The reasons for the cancellation is that the Exchange Control Purposes Copy was 
surrendered by the party for cancellation as no longer required by them . 

[No. Cent/ 11/ 68 -69 / PLS.] 

S. A . SESHAN , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , 
for Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


(Оfice of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and exporta ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1988 
S . O . 3996 . — M / s . Shamrock Industrics , Mile 13 / 3 , Mathura Road , P . O . Amar Nagar , 
near Faridabad were granted an Import Licence No . P / SS / 1608811/ C / XX / 25 / C / D /25726 
dated 7th December, 1967 for the Import of Glassing and Vegetablo Parchment paper and 
German Silver Scrap for General area for Rs. 10 , 000 / - (Rupees Ten thousand only ) . They 
have applied for the işsuo of a duplicato copy of the Custome purposes thereof on the 
ground that their original copy has been lost /misplaced , without having been utilised agd 
without having been registered with any customs house . 

2 . The applicant have filled an affidavit , in support of their contention as required under 
para 299 ( 2 ) read with appendix -8 of the I. T . C . hand book of rules and procedure , 1968. 
I am satisfied , the original customs purposes copy has been lost /misplased . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under clauso 9 ( cc ) imports ( control) 
ordor, 1955, dated 7th December , 1953 , as amended upto date , I order cancellation of the 
customg puroses copy of the Import licence No. P / SS / 1608811/ C / XX / 25 / CD / 25 / 26 dated 
7th December , 1967 . 


5224 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 ( PART 1l-- - 

---- --- - - - - - - - = = - - - - - - - - -- - - 
4 . The applicant are now being issued a duplicate copy of the custom purposes copy 
of the said Import Licence , in accordance with para 299 (2 ), IT . C . hand book of rules and 
proceduro , 1968 . 

[No. F . S-6 / AM .68 /AU -HRH /OLA /2170.] 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1968 
S . O . 3997. M / s . Chemiplex Laboratories , 545, Grain Market, Ambala Cantt. wore 
granted an import licence No . P / SS / 1610874 / C /XX / 25 / CP /25 / 26 dated 30th March , 1968 
1or the import of Drugs and Medicines for General Arca for Rs. 4 ,537 / - (Rupees four 
thousand five hundred and thirty seven only ). They have applied for the issue of a duplicato 
copy of the Customy Purposes copy thereof, on the ground that their original copy bas 
boen lost /misplaced , without having been utilised and without having beon registered with 
any Customs House . 

2 . The applicant have filed an affidavit, in support of their contention as required under 
para 299 ( 2 ) read with appendix - 8 or the 1. 1 . C . Hund Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968 
i am satisfied , the original customs purposes copy has been lost /misplaced and. 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me, under clause 9 ( cc ) Imports (Control) 
Order , 1955 , dated 7th December , 1955 , as amended upto date , I order cancellation of the 
customs purposes copy of the import Licence No. P / SS / 1010874 / C / XX / 25 /CD / 25 - 26 dated 
30th March , 1968 . 

4 . The applicant are now being issued a duplicate copy of the Customs Purposes of the 
said import licence , in accordance with para 299 (2 ), I. T . C . Hand Book of Rutos and 
Procedure , 1968 . 

[No. F . C -6 /HAR /AM .68/ AU /HRH / CLA / 2224.] 


New Delhi, the 19th October 1968 
S . O . 3998. - A licence No. P / SS / 1608765 / C dated 1st December, 1967, of the value 
of ks. 2380 / - for the import of Zinc was issued to M / s . Gupta Iron and Stool GalvaniAD 
Works, G . T . Road , Mandi Govindgarh . 

2 . Therefore , a show causo notice No. G - 7 /68 / ENF / CLA / 3673 dated 9th September , 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licenco in 
their favour should not be cancelled on the ground toat the Central Government is 
satisfied that the licenco will not serve the purpose for which it has been granted in terms 
of Clause 9 , sub - calusc ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 . 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show cause notice , M / s . Gupta Iron and Steel Galvanis 
ing Worka , G . I . Road , Mandi Govindgarb , have not furnished any explanation , 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that tho licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered incotec 
tive . Therefore , the undersigncd , in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 
y sub -clauso ( cc ) of the Iniports (Control ) Order , 1955 hereby cancel the licence 
No . P / SS / 1608765 / C dated 1st December , 1967 for Rs. 2380 / - issued in favour of M / s . 
Gupta Iron and Steel Galvanising Works , G . T . Road , Mandi Govindgarh . 

[No. G -7 / 68 / ENF /CLA / 7160. ] 


S . O . 3999 . - A licence No . P / SS / 1608444 / C dated 6th November, 1967 of the valus 
of Rs. 800 / - for import of Copper and Zinc was iysued to M / s . Jyoti Mechanical Works, 
O . T . Road , Batala . 

2 . Thereafter, a show cause notice No. G - 7 /68 / ENF /CLA / 5495 dated 6th September , 
1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why tho said licence 
in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Government is 
satisfied that the licence will not serve the purpose for which it was granted in terms of 
Clauso 9 , sub -clause (cc ) of Imports (Centrol) Order , 1955 . 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show cause notice , M / s. Jyoti Mechanical Works, G , T . 
Road , Batala have not furnished any explanation , 

4 . Having regard to what has becs stated in the preceding paragraph , the undersigned 
is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or otherwise rendered ineffec 
tive. Thorefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers vested in him under Clause 9 
sub -glauso ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 horoby cancel tho liconco 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5225 


No. P /SS / 1608444 / C dated 6th November, 1967 for Rs. 800 / - issued in favour of 
M / s . Jyoti Mechanical Works, G . T . Road Batala . 

[No, G -7 /68 / ENF / CLA / 7248.] 


New Delhi, the 25th October 1968 
S . O . 4000 . — M / s. Paris Foundry and Works, G . T . Road , Batala were granted import 
licence Nos. P / S / 1611403 / C / XX / 27 / D / 25 .26 dated 28th May, 1968 and P / S / 1611404 / 
C / IN / 27 / D / 25. 26 dated 28th May . 1968 for the import of Taper Rollor Bearings other 
than those specitied in appendix 14 (6 ) of Am , 69 Red Book Vol. I under I. T . C . S . No . 19 ( 3 ) 
( 1 ) ( B ) / II for Rs. 1500 / - cach . They have applied for issue of a duplicate copies of the 
Customs Purposes copies thereof, on the ground that original copies of the Customs Purposes 
copies have been lost /misplaced without having been registered with Bombay Customs 
House . 

2 . The applicant s have filed an affilavit in surnort of their cotention as required under 
para , 299 (2 ) of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968. I am satisfied that the 
original Customs Purposes copies have been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In exercise of the powers conferrel on me under section 9 ( cc ) Imports (Control ) 
Order , 1955 dated 7th December. 1955 , I order the cancellation of the Customs Purposcs 
copics of import licences Nos P / S / 1611403 / C / XX / 27 / 4 / 25 . 26 dated 28th May , 1968 and 
P / S / 1611404 / C / IN / 27 / D / 25 . 26 dated 28th May , 1968 . 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate Customs copies of these licences , in 
accordance with para . 299 ( 1 ) of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968. 

[No. IDA / 85 (ii )/AM .68 /AU .PB / CLA / 2843 .) 


ose /itaricate copies of havet be 


S . O . 4001.- - M / s . Subash Pngineering Works, Kashmir Road , Batala were granted 
import licence No . P / SS / 1611084 / C / XX / 25 / C - D /25 26 dated 1st May , 1968 and P / SS / 
1611085 / C /XX / 25 / C - D / 25. 26 dated 1st May , 1968 for the import of Roller Bearid s other 
than those specified in appendix 14 ( 5 ) of AM . 69 Red Book and Tarer Roller Bearings 
other than those sperified in Appendix 1406 ) of AM , 69 period Red Book Vol. I under 
I. T . C . Sr . Nos, 19 (2 ) ( 1 ) (B ) / IT and 19 ( 3 )( 1 ) ( B ) / II respectively for Rs. 1500 / - each . They 
have applied for issue of a dunlicate copies of Customs Purposes copies thereof on tho 
Kround that originsi Customs Purposes copies have been lost /misplaced without having 
heen registered with any Custom authority . 

2 . The applicants have field an affidavit in supnort of their conteption as required under 
para 299 ( 2 ) of I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968. I am satisfied that the 
original Customs Purposes copies have been lost /misplaced . 

3 . In excercise of the powers conferred on me under section 9 (cc ) Tmnorts (Control) 
Order, 1995 datcd 7th Derembes 1055 , Tortes the moncellation of Customs Purposes copies 
of imrort licence No P /SS / 1611084 / C / XX / 25 / C - 1 /25. 26 dated 1st May , 1968 and 
P / SS / 1611085 / C / XX / 25 / C - D / 25 . 26 dated 1st May , 1968 , 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate corv of the Custom Purposes of 
these licence , in accordance with the provision of para 299 ( 1 ) of L. T . C . Hand Book of 
Rules and Procedure , 1968. 

[No. I. D . A . / 38 ( II )/ AM .68 / AU . PB / CLA / 2844 .) 


New Delhi, the 29th October 1988 
4 . 0 . 4002 . — M / s. Chemiplex laboratories 545, Grain Market, Ambala Cantt. were 
Franted an import licence No P / SS / 1610874 / C /XX / 25 /CD / 25 / 26 dated 30th March , 1968 
for the import of Drugs and Medicines for General Area for Rs. 4 , 537 / - (Rupoos four 
thousand five hundred and thirty seven only ). They have applied for the issue of a 
duplicate cop of the Customs Purposes copy thereof, on the ground that their original 
copy has been lost /misplaced , without having been utilised and without having been 
registered with any Customs House . 

2 . The applicants have fled an affidavit , in support of their contention as required under 
para 299 ( 2 ) road with appendix 8 of the I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and Proceduro , 1968 . 
( am satisfied . the original customs purposes copy has been lost /misplaced and 

3 . In ryercise of the powers conferred on me, under clause ( CC ) Imports (Control) 
Order, 1955 , dated 7th December, 1955 , as amended upto date , I order cancellation of 


5226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 


- - 


- 


the customs purposea copy of the import licence No. P / SS/ 1610874 / C / XX / 25 /CD / 25 - 26 
dated 30th March , 1968 , 

4 . The applicants aro now being issued a duplicate copy of the Customs Purposes of the 
haid import licence , in accordance with para 299( 2 ), I. T . C . Hand Book of Rules and 
Procedure , 1968 . 

[ No , F . C -6 / HAR /AM .68 / AU -HRH / CLA / 2251.] 


New Delhi, 2nd November 1968 
S . O . 4003. – M / s. Raj Radio Corporation , College Road , Moga were granted import 
licence No. P / SS / 1619860 / C /XX / 25 / C - D / 25 , 26 dated 17th February , 1968 , for the 
import of Gauge Condensors air die electric 2 . Gauge condensor P . V . C . type 3 . Iron 
dust Cores not exceeding 2 " in length upto 10 per cent of the face value of the licenco 
in respect of item No. 1 and 3 only . They have applied for igauo of duplicato copy 
of Customs purposes and Exchange Centrol copies thereof, on the ground that original 
copies has been damaged without having been registered with Any Customs authority and 
without having been utilised at all. 

2 . The applicant have Aled an affidavit in support of their contention as required 
under para 299 ( 2 ) of I. T .C . Hand Book of Rules and Procedure , 1968. I am satisfied 
that the original Custom and Exchange Control copies have boen damagod . 


3 . In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Section 9 ( cc ) Import ( Control) 
Order , 1955 dated 7th December , 1955 , I order the cancellation of Custom and Exchange 
Control copies of licence No. P / SS / 1609860 / C /XX /25 / C - D /25 26 dated 17th February , 
1968. 

4 . The applicant is now being issued a duplicate copy of Custom and Exchange 
Control copies of this licence in accordance with para . 299 ( 1) of I. T . C . Hand Book of 
Rules and Procedure , 1968 . 

( No. F . N .P . 116 / AM .68 / AU .PB /CLA . ] 

J. S . BEDI, 
Joint Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Office of the Joint Chlef Controller of linports and Exporte ) 

ORDER 

Calcutta , the 30th October 1968 
S . O . 4004. - A licence No. P / S / 1628932 / C /XX / 27 / C /25- 26 dated 4th June, 1968. 
of the value of Rs. 800 / - for import of Cloves was issued to M / s . Ghose Bros. (Porfumers ), 
50 , Ezra Street, Calcutta subject to the conditions as under : 
(a ) all items imported under it shall be used only in the licence holders factory 

at the address shown in the application against which the licence is issued 
and no portion thereof will be utilised by the licence for a unit / purpose 
other than the one for which the licence in question is issued , or will be sold 
or permitted to be utilised by any other party . The licensee shall maintain 
proper account of consumption and utilisation of the goods imported against 

the licence . 
2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No. 163 /68 / E & L dated 20th September. 1968 was 
issued asking them to show cause within 15 days as to why the said licence in their favour 
should not be cancelled on the ground that the licence in question was issucd throuch 
inadvertence as the item in question was canalised one in terms of Clause 9 . sub 
clause ( a ). 

3 . In respne to the aforesaid show cause notice . M / s . Ghose Brog. (Perfumers ) to 
Ezra Street, Calcutta had, by their letter dated 18th October . 1968 furnished a detailed 
explanation . In their said reply the firm have not stated anything clearly . 

4 . The undersigned has carefully cramined the said representation and has come to 
the conclusion that the licence was issued through inadvertence . 

3 . Having regard to what has been stated in the precedino naragraph . the understand 
is satisnied that the licence in atiestion should be cancelled or otherwise rendered 
inetective. Therefore, the undersiged , in excrcise of the powers vested in him under 
Claus. 9 Bub - clause ( ) of tho Imports (Control) Order, 1945 hereby cancel the licence 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] 2 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5227 


No . P / S / 1628932/ C / XX / 27 / C / 25 -26 dated 4th June , 1968 , for Rs. 800/ - issued in favour 
of M / s. Ghoso Bros, ( Porfumers) 50 , Ezra Street, Calcutth. 

[ No . 163 / 68 / E & L .] 

J . MUKHERJI , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports . 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


_ .. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE, C . D . & CO - OPERATION 

( Department of Agriculture ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi the 25th October 1968 
S . O . 4005. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Essential Commo 
ditics Act , 1955 (10 of 1955 ) the Central Government hereby directs that the powers con 
ferred on it by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act to make orders to provide for 
the matters specified in clause ( b ) of sub- section ( 2 ) thereof , shall, in relation to the 
Arable Land ( Utilisation of Food Crops ) Order, 1963, be exercisable also by the Lieute 
nant Governor of Himachal Pradesh subject to the condition that the said power shall be 
exorcined according to such directions, if any, ils may be issued by the Central Govern 
ment in this behalf. 

[ No 20- 59 / 65- Lands( M ) .] 
SARAN SINGH, It. Secy. 


खाद्य , कृषि , सामुदायिक विकास तथा सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

( कृषि विभाग ) 
मावेश 


नई दिल्ली , 25 अक्तूबर 1968 
एस० प्रो० 40 06. - - अनिवार्य जिन्स अधिनियम , 1955 ( 1955 का 10 ) की धारा 
5 के अन्तर्गत प्रदत्त अधिकारों का उपयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् द्वारा निदेश देती है कि 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अन्तर्गत उसे दिए गए अधिकार , जिनके द्वारा कृषि । 
योग्य भूमि ( खाद्य फसलों के उपयोग ) आदेश 1963 के सम्बन्ध में उसकी उपधारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड 
( बी ) में वर्णित विषयों से सम्बन्धित मावेश निकालने की व्यवस्था है, हिमाचल प्रदेश के उप - राज्यपाल 
द्वारा भी प्रयोग किए जा सकेगे बशर्ते कि उक्त अधिकार ऐसे निवेशों के अनुसार प्रयोग में लाये जायें , 
जो बने हुए हों या जी इस सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा निकाले जायें । 

[ संख्या 20- 59/ 6 5 - भूमि ( एम० )] 

शरण सिंह, 
संयुक्त सचिव , भारत सरकार । 


.. 


- . . . - -... - 


.-- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


-- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - -- 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development) 

New Delhi , the 2nd November 1968 
S. 0 . 4007 /IDRA / 6 / 10 / 68. - In exercise of the powere conferred by Section 6ot tha 
Industries ( Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) rend with ri05( 1 ) of the 
Development Councits ( Procedural ) Rules , 1952 . the Central Government hereby appointe , 


5228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARCIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II - 


till the 16th August, 1970, Shri Arjun Arora , a Member of the Rajya Sabha to be a 
member of the Development Council for the scheduled industries engaged in the manufac 
turo or production of Drugg and Pharmaceuticals established by the Order of the Governi 
ment of India in this Ministry s Order No. S . O . IDRA / 6 / 6 / 68 dated the 17th August, 1968 
and directs that the following amendments shall be made in the said Order , namoly S 
In the suid Order, after entry No. 28 , the following entry shall be inserted , namely: 
" 29. Shri Arjun Arora , Member (Rajya Sabha), 90 , Shah Jahan Road , New Delhi." 

[No. 13 (1)/ 68 -LC .] 
R . C . SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Industrial Developmort) 

NOTIFIED ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19th August 1968 
S .O . 4008. In cxcrcise of the powers conferred by Section 18A of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951 ) the Central Government hereby 
extends the term of appointment of Shri S . N . Lahiri, as the Authorised Controller of 
the IEW for a period of three months from 11th June , 1968 upto and inclusive of 10th 
September , 1968 . 

[No. 1 ( 2) /68 -LEEIO .] 
N . SIVARAMAN , Under Secy . 


(Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 28th October 1968 
$ .0 , 4009 . Io pursuance of sub- regulation ( 4 ) of regulation 14 of the Indian Standaris 
Institution (Certification Marka) Regulations 1955 , as amended from time to time, the 
Indian Standards Institution hereby notifics that licence No . CM / L - 540 , particulan of which 
r¢ given below , has been cancelled with effect from 1 July 1968 : 

- - - - - - - - 
Licence Name & Address of 

Article / Process 

Relevant Indian Standard 
No. & Date the licensec 

covered hy the 
licence cancelled 


- 


CM / L - 540 Mis Prem Industrial Cor- Hard - drawn stranded alu - 
13 MAY 1963 poration, . 

minjum and atcelcored 
B , 10 : 11 Industrial Es alumjnium conductor 
tate , Guindy, Madras - 1 for Overhead power 
32 . 

transmission purposes . 


IS : 398 - 1961 Specifica 

tion for Hard - drawa 
Stranded aluminium and 
, steelcored aluminium 
conductors for overhead 
power transmission 
purposes . ( Revised ) . 


[ No . CMD / 55 : 540.) 

(Dr.) A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General. 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 28th October 1968 
S . O . 4010 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from G .GS. V to GAX 
Flare Point in the (Kalo ) Oil Field , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
and Natural Gay Commission and that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARI IKA -25, 1890 


necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule annexed 
thereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section (1) of the Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 ( 50 of 
1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declures ils intention to acquire the right of user 
thorsin . 

3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the date of this 
notification object to the laying of the pipeline under the land to the Competent Authority , 
at Geology Shod of O . N . G . C . ( W . R . ) , near Central Workshop , Makarpura Road , Baroda- 4 
10 the Othcc of the Gujarat Pipelines Project (Oil and Natural Gas Commission ) Baroda. 
Every person mahing such an objection shall also stato specifically whether he wishes to 
be heard in pci son or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULL 


TALUKA : Kual. 


Srale : Gujarat. 

Dist. : Mehsana. 
( Laying pipeline froni G .G .S . V . to Gas Flaic Point) 


Village 


S . No.. 


HeclareAre 


P , Arc . 


Iband 


. 


682 


. 


, 


81 


[No. 20 / 3 / 67 -IOC .) 
R . S . GOPALAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S . O . 4011 . . Whcicas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary in 
the public interest that for the transport of Petroleumn between Barauni Refinery in 
Bihar State and kopur In Uttar Pradesh State , Pipeline should be laud by the Indian 
Oil Corporalion Limited and that for the purpose of laying such Pipelincs , it is necessity 
to « uire the light of use in the land or village Naubafta , of Tohsal Kanpur, District 
Kanpur described in thc Schedule annexed hereto ; 

2 Now , therefore in cxercise of the powers conferred by suh -scction (i) of section 3 
of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962) the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire the right of 
user therein . 

7 Any person interested in the sail land may within 21 days from the date of this 
notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Competent Autbo 
vity , PO Box 58 , Allahabad . Every person making such a objection shall also state 
specifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by leonl practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
STATE : Uttar Pradesh . 

Dist ." Kannur. 

TAHÚt : Kanpur. 

- - - - 
Village Surver No . 

Fxtent Suvey 

Hiitos 
R -BB 

No. 

B - R - 6 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - - 
Ngoast 

O : 5 

0 1 0 
< 0 
60 

080 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


ז]7 


ccccccccc 


65ocoon 


120 
720 
740 


occccccco FONCO CCCCCLOSE 


TO 
ο 10 το 


605 


742 


696 
674 
710 


1 .1 
715 
885 


010 


no 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- - 


[No, 28 (10 /68 -OR 1 
R , K . SINHA, Under Secy 


1230 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 16, 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ PART IL 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T . Board) 

New Delhi, the 29th October 1968 
S . O . 4012. — In pursuance of para (a ) of Section III of Rulo 434 of Indian Tolograph 
Rules, 1951, as introduced by S .O . No . 627 dated 8th March , 1960 , tho Director-Gonoral, 
Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifics the 16th November , 1968 as the date on which the 
Measured Rato System will be introduced in BHUJ Telephone Exchange in Gujarat Circlo . 

[ No. 5 / 66/ 68-PHB(2).] 


New Delhi , the 4th November 1968 
S . O . 4013. - -In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section II of Rule 434 of Indian Tole 
graph Rules , 1951, as introduced by S. O . No . 627 dated 8th March , 1960, the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs , hereby specifics the 16th December , 1968 as the date on 
which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in SATNA Telephone Exchange in 
Madhya Pradesh Circle . 

[ No. 5- 68 / 68-PHB( 2).] 

D . R. BAHL , 
Assistant Director General (PHB). 


संचार विभाग 
( गक- तार बोर्ड ) 


नई दिल्ली , 29 अक्टूबर 1968 


एस० प्रो0 4014. - स्थायी आदेश क्रमसंख्या 627, दिनांक 8 मार्च, 1960 द्वारा लाग 
किए गए 1951 के भारतीय तार नियमों के नियम 434 के खंड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार डाक 
तार महानिदेशक में भूज टेलीफोन केन्द्र में 16 - 11 - 68 से प्रमापित पर प्रणाली लाग करने का 
निश्चय किया है । 

[ सं० 5 - 66/ 68–पी० एच० बी०( 2).] 


नई दिरनी , 4 नवम्बर 1968 


स्थायी प्राधेश पसंख्या 4015. - - स्थायी आदेश क्रमसंखपा 627, दिनांक 8 मार्च, 1960 
द्वारा लाग़किये गए 1951 के भारतीय तारनियमों के नियम 434 के खण्ड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार 
शाक -तार महानिदेशक ने सतना टेलीफोन केन्द्र में 16-- 12 - 1968 से प्रमापित दर प्रणाली लागू 
करने का निश्चय किया है । 

[ सं० 5- 68/6 8- पी०एच० बी० ] 

डी० आर० बहल , 
सहायक महानिदेशक (पी० एच० मी . ) । 


CENTRAL ELECTRICITY AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 28th October 1968 
$ .O . 4016. — Consequent on his reversion to the Bihar State Electricity Board , Shri 
V . K . Sinba, relinquished charge of the post of Assistant Director in the Eastern Regional 
Electricity Board , Patna, on the attornoon of the 9th October, 1968, 

INo . 20 / 1 / 65- Adm. I (PWy .] 


SEC. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 8905231 


S . O . 4017. — In exercise of the power conferred by sub -section 6 of section 3 of 
the Electricity (Supply ) Act, 1948 , the Central Electricity Authority hereby appoints Shri 
K . N . Kalgal, Deputy Chief Engineer ( Electricity ) , Mysore State Electricity Board, as 
Assistant Secretary, Southern Regional Electricity Board , Bangalore , with effect from tho 
forenoon of the 11th October, 1968 until further orders. 

INo . 21 /2 / 67- Adm. I (PW).] 


New Delhi, the 7th November. 1968 
S . O . 4018 . — In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 6 of section 3 of the 
Electricity ( Supply ) Act 1948 , the Central Electricity Authority hereby appoints Shri 
Kewal Krishan , Asstt. Director , Central Water & Powor Commission (Power Wing) as 
Asstt. Secretary , Northern Regional Electricity Board, Ghaziabad with offect from the 
forenoon of the 31st October , 1968 until further orders . 

S. 0 . 4019 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section 6 of section 3 of the 
Electricity ( Supply ) Act, 1948, the Central Electricity Authority hereby appoints Shri 
Mahabir Prasad, Asstt. Director , Central Water and Power Commission ( Power Wing ) 
as Asstt Director in the Eastern Regional Electricity Board , Patna , with effect from the 
fornoon of the 24th October , 1968, until further orders . 

[ No. 21 / 8 / 66 - Admn.I ( PW) .] 
M . M. DHAWAN, Under Secy . 

for Chairman 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING AND U . D . 

(Department of Health and U . D .) 
New Delhi, the 31st October 1968 


I 


S . O . 4020 . - In pursuance of clause (d ) of section 4 of the All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences Act, 1956 (25 of 1956 ) the Central Government hereby nominates Shri 

S Chandrakant, Joint Educational Adviser, Ministry of Education to be a member of 
the All India Institute of Medical Sciences , New Delhi vire Shri P . N . Kirpal resigned . 

[ No. F. 2- 49 / 68 - ME(PG).] 
BHAGWATI SHARAN SINGH , Dy. Secy. 


स्वास्थ्य, परिवार नियोजन एवं नगर विकास मंत्रालय 

( स्वास्थ्य एवं नगर विकास विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 31 अक्तूबर, 1968 
एम०प्रो० 4021. - अखिल भारतीय प्रायुर्विज्ञान संस्थान अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 25 ) 
की धारा 4 के खंड ( घ ) का पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा शिक्षा मंत्रालय में संयुक्त शिक्षा 
सलाहकार, श्री एल० एस० चन्द्रकान्त , को श्री पी० एन० कृपाल के स्थान पर , जिन्होंने त्यागपत्र 
दे दिया है , अखिल भारतीय आयुर्विज्ञान संस्थान , नई दिल्ली का एक सदस्य मनोनीत करती है । 

[प० सं० 2- 49/ 68- एम० इ० (पी० जी० )] 


भगवती शरण सिंह, उप सचिव । 


5232 


THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 16, 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [ PART II --- 


(Department of Health & U .D .) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 
S . O . 4022. Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the lato 
Ministry of Health No . F. 5 -14/ 58 MI , dated the 25th March, 1960 , the Central Government 
has directed that the medical qualification M . D . granted by the Universite Catholique de 
Louvain , Belgium , shall be a recognised medical qualification for the purposes of the 
Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 

And whereas Dr. Annic Marie Dutrieux who possesses the said qualification is for the 
time being attached to the Fatima Hospital and Maternity Home Thumbay, Kerala , for the 
purposes of charitable work ; 
____ Now, therefore , in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub -scction ( 1 ) of section 
14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies a period of two years from 
the date of publication of this Order in the Oficial Gazette , or the period during which 
Dr. Annie Maric Dutrieux is attached to the said Hospital and Maternity Home, 
whichever is shorter, as the period to which medical practice by the aforesaid doctor shall 
be limited. 

INo. F.19-33/ 68 - MPT .] 
K . DEO . Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 


S. O . 4023. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 and sul - rule (3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rulo 9 of the Cinemato 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 . the Central Government after consultation with the 
Central Board of Filth Censors, hereby appoints Shri Vicki Kapoor as member of the 
Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate effect. 


[ No.11 / 2 / 68- FC.] 


H . B. KANSAL, Under Secy. 


सचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 31 अक्टूबर 1968 
एस० प्रो० 4024.- - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5( 1 ) और चलचित्र 
( संसर ) नियमावली , 19 58 के नियम 8 के उप नियम ( 3 ) के साथ पठित नियम 9 के उप नियम 
( 2 ) द्वारा दिए गए अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से 

रामर्श करके, एतद्द्वारा श्री विक्की कपूर को अभी से उक्त बोर्ड के बम्बई सलाहकार मण्डल का सदस्य 
नियक्त किया है । 

फ़ाईल संख्या 11/ 2/ 68 - एफ० ( सी )] 


हरि बाब कंसल , प्रवर सचिन 


Src. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5233 


ORDER 

New Delhi; the 1st November 1968 
S . 0 . 4025 . -.In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactnm ents 
yp : cified in the First Schºdile annexed hereto the Central Government after considering the 
recomendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bomaby herbey approves the film specified in 
column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the des 
cription specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1) Sub - Section (4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematogranh Ac ", 1952 

(Central Act XXXVII of 1952 ). 
( 2) Sub -Section ( 3) of Section 5 and Sectio.1 9 of the Bi.nbay Cinemas ( Regulation ) Ace 
1953 (Bombay Act XI of 1953 ). 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


S . 
No. 


Title of the film 


Length 
35 min 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of the 

Producer 


Whether a Scientifi : 

film or a film intended 
for educational pur 
poses or a film dealing 
with news & current 
events or a documentar , 
film . 


- 


I 


Maharashtra News 304 : 00M 

No. I97 


Director of 
Publicity , 
Government of 
Maharashtra , 
Bombay. 


Film dealing with news 

and current events 
( For releascin Maharagh 
tra Circuit only ) 


[ No . F . 24 / 1/ 68 - FP App. 1300 .] 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL , Under Secy . 


प्रादेण 

नई दिल्ली -- 1 नवम्बर 1968 
सा० प्रा० 4026.-----इसके साथ लगी प्रथम अनुसूची में निर्धारित प्रत्येक अधिनियम के उप न्ध के 
अन्तर्गत जारी किये गये निदेशों के अनुसार केन्द्रीय सरकार फिल्म सलाहकार बोर्ड बम्बई की 
सिफारिशों पर विचार करने के बाद एतदद्वारा इसके साथ लगी द्वितीय अन सूची के कालम 2 में 
दी गई फिल्म को उसके सभी भारतीय भाषाओं के रूपान्तरों सहित जिसका विवरण उसके मामने 
उक्त द्वितीय अनुसूची के कालम 6 में दिया हुपा है स्वीकृत करती है : - - 


प्रथम अनुसूची 
( 1 ) चलचिन्न अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 37वां केन्द्रीय अधिनियम ) की धारा 12 की 

उपधारा ( 4 ) तथा धारा 16 । । 
( 2) : ई सिनेमा (विनियम ) अधिनियम 1953 ( 1953 का 11वा • म्बई अधिनियम ) 

की धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 3 ) तथा धारा 91 


5234 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II 


द्वितीय अनुसूची 


क्रम फिल्म का नाम 
संख्या 


नाम 


फिल्म को आवेदक का निर्माता का क्या वैज्ञानिक फिल्म 
लम्बाई नाम 

है या शिक्षा सम् न्धी 
35मिमी 

है या समाचार और 
सामयिक घटनाओं 
को फिल्म है या 
डाकुमेन्ट्री फिल्म 


-- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


- -- - -- - - -- -- 


1 महाराष्ट्र समाचार 304 . 00 

संख्या 197 मि० मी० 


प्रचार निदेशक महाराष्ट्र समाचार और साम 
सरकार तम्बई । यिक घटनाओं से 

सम्बन्धित फिल्म 
( केवल महाराष्ट्र 
सर्किट में रिलीज 
करने के लिए ) 


( संख्या फाईल 24/ 1/ 68 - - एफ० पो० - परिशिष्ट 1300 ) 

. .ाबू राम अग्रवाल, अवर सचिव , 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

(Department of Supply) 

New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S.O . 4027. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause (a ) of Sub-Rule (2 ) of rule 5 of 
the Central Civil Services ( Temporary Services), Rules, 1965, the Central Government 
hereby specifies the Director General of Supplies and Disposals as the authority to exercise 
tho powers conferred by the said rulo in respect of ordors passed under Sub -rulo ( 1 ) of 
Rulo 5 against the employees working in the Regional Supplies and Disposals and Inspection 
officos under the Directorato General of Supplies and Disposals , other than those whose 
appointing authority is the President. 
2 . This notification shall come into force from 1st September , 1968 . 

INo . 20 / 9 / 68- ESII .] 
V . P . GULATI, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Works and Housing) 

New Delhi, the 11th November, 1968 
S . O . 4028. - -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Public Premises 
( Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants ) Act, 1958 (32 of 1958) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints the officers mentioned in column ( 1 ) of the Table below, being gazetted 
officers of Government, to be estate officers for the purposes of the said Act and the 
said officers shall exercise all the powers conferred and perform the duties imposed , on 
estate oficers by or under the said Act, within the local Imits of their respective furisdiction 


Sec. 3 (11) ) THE GAZETTE OF ÍNDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR IÍKA 29 , 1890 


5235 


in respect of the public premises specified in the corresponding entry in column ( 2 ) of 
the said Table , 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


TABLE 
- - 

- - - 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 
Designation of Ufficer. 

Categories of Public premises and local 

limits of jurisdiction. 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - . 

- - - - - -- - - - 
1 . The Executive Engineer, Central ? 

Storc Division , No. 1, CPWD , 

New Delhi. 
2 . The Executive Engineer , Central | 

Store Division, No . ll . CPWD . 

New Delhi. 
3 . The Exccutive Engineer , Construc- [ Premisce under the administrative control 

tion Division , No . II, CPWD . of the Central P . W .D . situated within thọ 
New Delhi. 

local limits of their respective jurisdiction 
4 . The Executive Engineer, Construc in New Delhi and Delhi. 

tion Division , No . III, CPWD , 

New Delhi, 
5 . Thc Executive Engineer, Cons 

truction Division No. IV , 
CPWD , New Delhi. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

No. 21011(4 ) / 66 -Pol.] 
T . K . BALASUBRAMANIAN , 

Dy. Director of Estates & ex -Officio Under Secy . 
- - - - - - - 

- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 29th August 1968 
S . O . 4029 . - In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme, 
1952, the Central Government hereby appoints tho Secretary to the Government of Orissa , 
Laliour, Employmçnt and Housing Departmont, as the Chairman and the Labour Commis 
sioner, Government of Orissa , Deputy Secretary to the Government of Orissa , Finance 
Dcparinicot, and Sarvashri F . C . Dhariwal, S . K . Dutta and R . K . Samantrai as members 
of thc Regional Committee for the State of Orissa and makes the following further amcod 
ments in the notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Social 
Security No. S . O . 1295 dated the 9th April , 1965, namely : 


In the said notification ( 1) against serial numbers 1 to 5 for the existing cntries in the 
first column, the following entries shall respectively be substituted , namely : 
" The Secretary to the Government of Orissa, Labour, Employment and Housing 

Department, Bhubaneswar. 
The Labour Commissioner, Government of Orissa, Bhubaneswar. 
The Deputy Secretary to the Government of Orissa, Finance Department, Bhubancs 

war , 
Shri F . C . Dhariwal, Vice -President and General Manager, Orient Paper Mills , 

Brajajajnagar, 
Shri S . K . Dutta , General Manager, Orissa Textile Mills, Choudwar, Cuttack ." 
(2 ) Against scrial No. 8 for the entry in the first column the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely S 
" Shri R . K . Samantrai, M .LA , President, Rourkela Mazdoor Sabha, Rourkela ." 

[No . 12 (5) 65-PF - 11.] 


S 


5236 THE GAZETI L OF INDIA : NOVEMBI: R 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 23 , 1890 {Panell 

- - = = -- 
New Delhi, the 31st October 1968 
S . O . 4030 . - 10 exercise of the powers conferred bv section 73F of the Employees Stato 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948) , the Central Government, having regard to the location of 
Messra Instrumentation Limited , Kota , in an implemented arca , hereby cxcmpts tho said 
factory from payment of the employers special contribution leviable under Chapter VA 
of the said Act for a period of one year upto and inclusive of the 26th August , 1969 , 

[No. F . 6 /61/ 68 -HI.] 
New Delhi, the 1st November 1968 


S . O . 4031. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
tho majority of the employees in relation to the ostablishment known as Messrs. Chingapul 
Cardamom Estate, Block 25 , 47, Trivandram Road , Palayamcottah , Tirunelvoli 2 havo 
agreed that the provisions of the Employcos Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of section 1 
of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment with effect from the 31st October, 1968. 

[No. 8 / 111 /68 / PF - LI .] 
S . O . 4032 . Whereas it appears to the Central Governmont that the employor and 
tbo majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Mosgry . 
Jhunjhunwala Company, 353 Kalbadevi Road , Bombay - 2 have agreed that the provisions 
of tho Employcos Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), should be made applicable to 
tho said establishment : 

Now , therefore , iu excrcise of the powers conferred by sub -section (4 ) of section 1 
of the said Act, the Central Governmeot hereby applies the provisions of the said Act 
to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirticth day of 
April, 1966 . 

No. 8 / 30 / 66 -PF.II.] 


$ . 0 . 4033 ,- - Whereas it appoars to the Central Government that the employer and 
the majority of tho employees in relation to the establishment known as Mossrs. Asha 
Engineering Works , No . 1 Chinagwamy Mudaliar Road , Tasker Town , Bangalore 1 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1932 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in cxercise of the powers conferred by gub -section (4 ) of section 1 
of the said Act, the Contral Government hereby applics the provisions of the said Act 
to tho sald establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the thirtieth day of 
April, 1968. 

[No . 8 / 105 /68-PF .II.] 
New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S .O . 4034 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) the Central Government, having rogard to the 
location of the Kerala University Press , Trivandrum in an implemented arca boroby 
czempts the said prcas from the paynicnt of the cmployer s special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for further period upto and inclusive of the 8th 
July , 1969, 

[No. F . 6 (42 ) /68-HI.) 


New Delhi, the 6 * h November 1968 
NO . 4035 . - -Whereas the State Government of Bibar has in pursuance of clause (d ) 
of section 4 of the Employecs State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , nominated Shri 
K . A . Ramasubramunium , Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Department of Labour 
and Employment to represent that State on the Empinyecs State Insurance Corporation 
in place of Shri R . C . Sinha ; 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5237 

- - - - - - - - - - - - 
Now , therefore , in pursuance of scction 4 of the Employces Stato Insurance Act, 
1948 (3 + ol 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makcs the following further amend 
ment in the notincation of the Goverapient of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S .O . 2551 
dated the 9th August, 1966 , namely — 


In the said notification , under the heading " (Nominated by the State Governments 
under clause ( d ) of section 4 ) " , for the entry against item 10 , the following entry shall 
be pubşturuled , namely : 

" Shri K . A . Kanasubramanium , 
Secretary to the Government of Bihar, 
Department of Labour and Employment, 
Patna. " 

[No . F . 3 / 18 /66 -HI. ] 
S . O . 4036 . _ Whereas the State Government of Madhya Pradesh has in pursuance of 
clause (d ) of section of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , no 
minated Shri M . M . Klar , L. A . S ., Labour Commissioner , Madhya Pradesh to represent 
that State on the Employees State Insurance Corporation in place of Shri S . B . Lal. 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby makes the following further anvend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 2551 
dated the 9th August , 1966 , namely S . 

In the said notification , under the heading " [Nominated by the State Government under 
clause ( J ) of section 4 )" , for the entry against item 13, the following entry shalibo 
gubotituted , namely : - - 

* Shri M . M . Khar , I. A . S ., 

Labour Commissioner, 
Madhya Pradesh , Indoro " . 

[No. F . 3 / 18 / 66 - HT. 
8 . 0 . 4037 . — In exercisc of the powers conferred by section 73F of tho Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Contral Government, having regard to the 
location of the Building Department (South ) and Building Department (North ), Bombay 
owned by the Bombav Flectric Supply and Transport Undertaking, Bombay in an imple 
mented area , hereby exempts the said Departments from payment of thc cmployer s special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said act for a period of one ycar upto 
and loclusive of the 10th September, 1969. 

[No. 6 (88) / 66 -HI.) 
3 . 0 . 4038 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government having regard to the 
location of the Biological Products Section , Post Office Veterinary College, Hissar, in 
an implemented area , hereby cxcmpts tho said Section , from the payment of the em 
ployer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further 
period of one year upto and inclusive of the 29th September, 1969. 

[No. F . 6 (85) / 68 -HI.) 
New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 
9 .0 . 4039. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer and 
the majority of the employces in relation to the establishment known as Messrs. New 
Trade Link Corporation , 405 Comnierce House , 140 Nagindas Master Road , Bombay - 1 , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 ot 
1952), should be made applicable to tho said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies , the provisions of the said 
Act to the said establishment 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day of April , 
1968 . 

[No. 8 /85 /68 /PF- ]I. ) 


New Delhi, the 8th November 1968 
S .O . 4040 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , And having regard to the location of the factories 


5238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II 


- 


- 


- - 


namely , the Yeruvda Prison Press and Government Photozinco Press , Poona , in an in 
plemented arca, the Central Government hereby exempts the said factories from tho 
Payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of tho said 
Act for a further period of six months upto and inclusive of the 30th March , 1969. 

[No. F . 6 / 62 /67- HI.] 


$ . 0 , 4041 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 88 of the Employeos Stato 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby exempts the Central 
Government cmployee Shri k . D . Sharma on deputation with M / s . Hindustan Housing 
Factory , Ltd ., New Delhi from the operation of the said Act from the 26th November , 
1907 to the 6th April , 1966 . 
2 . The above exemption is subject to the following conditions namely : 
(i) the aforesaid factory shall maintain a register showing the name and designation 

of the exempted cmployee; and 
(ii) that notwithstanding this exemption the employee shall continue to receive such 

benefits under the said Act to which he might havo qualled on the basis 
of contribution paid before the date of exemption , 

(No . F . 6 ( 17 ) / 66 -HI- II.) 


S . O . 4042. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employecsk State 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ), the Central Government, having regard to the location 
of the Government Central Press , Ahmedabad , in an implemented area , hereby cxempta 
the said Press from payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act upto and inclusive of the 15th August, 1969. 

No. F . 6 / 91/ 68 -HI.] 


New Delhi, the 11th November 1968 
S . O . 4043. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 88 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 1948) , the Central Government hereby excmpts the following 
Central Government employees on deputation with M / s . Hindustan Housing Factory , Ltd ., 
New Delhi from the operation of the said Act with cffect from the dates noted against 
each and upto and inclusive of the 14th January , 1969, namely — 
- - - - - - - 


S . No. 


Nung andDign t ion 


Date of commencement 
of present exemption 


1. Shri B . R . Gupta 


Stenographer 


28 - 1 - 1968 


2 


, 


B . S . Ch .dhi Overcos 


19 - 10 - 1967 


J ginohan L1 Sonogr phr 


189- 1967 


„ Jewin D 18 


28 - 5 -1967 


» 


S . S . J13r 


SAS. A C .1, 


28 - 1 - 1968 


6 . 


» 


0 . P . Bhatia 


U . D 


28 - 1 - 1963 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
2 . The above cxemption is subject to the following conditions, namely :-- 
(1) Ilie aforesaid factory shall maintain a register showing the names and designa 

tions of the employees ; and 
(ii) that, notwithstanding this exemption the employecs shall continue to receive such 

benefits under the said Act to which they might have qualified on the basis 
ol contributions paid before the dates of exemption . 

[No. F . 6 / 17 / 66 -HI-I,} 


Sec . 3 (ü ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5239 


S . O . 4044 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 13 of 
the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) and in supersession of the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No . S .O . 357 dated 2nd February 1961, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri T . 
Gomer , Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner (Grade 1), Madhya Pradesh , to bo an 
Inspector for the whole of tho State of Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of tho said Act 
and of any scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or 
under the control of the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected 
with a railway company, a major port, a mine or an oil-field or a controlled industry , 

[No. 18 ( 20 )/ 68 - PF . I. ] 


S . O . 4045 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of section 5D of 
the Employecs Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952), and in supersession of the 
potification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employment No . S .O . 4408 dated the 2nd 
December , 1967 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K . S . Sethi, as Regional 
Provident Fund Commissioner for the whole of the State of Maharashtra and the Union 
territory of Goa, Daman and Diu to assist the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in 
the discharge of his duties . 

[No. 17 (80 )/65-PF. I(1).] 


S . O . 4046 . 1n exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1) of section 13 of 
the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), and in supersession of tho 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and 
Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 4409 dated the 2nd 
December , 1967, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K . S . Sethi to be an 
Inspector for the whole of the State of Maharashtra and the Union territory of Goa , Daman 
and Diu for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed thorounder , in 
relation to establishments belonging to , or under the control of , the Central Government, 
or in relation to establishmnts connected with # railway company, a major port, a mino 
or an oil- field or a controlled industry . 

[No. 17 (80 )/ 65- PFI( II).] 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 6th November 1968 
S . O . 4047 . - -In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment and Kchabilitation (Departinent of Labour and Employment), No . S . O . 2494 
dated the 8th July , 1968, published in the Gazctte of India Part Il Section 3 , Bub 
section ( ii ) , at page 3322 , in line 10 , for “ Shri J. C . Dhingra ” road " Shri J. R . Dhingra " . 

[No. 12 / 7 /62-PF.17 . ] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employinoot ) 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1968 
S . O . 4048 , - .In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Minimum Wager 
Act, 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ), read with rule 3 of the Minimum Wages (Central Advisory Board ) 
Rules , 1949, the Central Governnient hereby makes the following further amendments to 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Luhour and Employment ) No . S . O . 4523 dated the 2nd 
December, 1967, namely : 

In the said notification , wider the heading " Independent persons" , — 
(i) for items 2 to 8 , the following items shall be submitted , namely: 

Members 
" 2. Shri M . C . Virma, Secretary to the Government of Manipur, Labour Department, 

Imphal. 
3. Shri B . V . Laud , Deputy Secretary to the Government of Mabarashtra , Industrico 

and Labour Department, Bombay - 32 . 


$ 240 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II 


4 . Shri C . J. Reddy, Chief Inspector of Establishments , Government of Andhra 

Pradesh , Hyderabad . 
5 . Shri P . K . Mattoo , Labour Commissioner and Secretary to the Goveroment of 

Himachal Pradesh , Industries ( 1.a hour ) Department, Simla , 
6 . Shri Dashrath Singh , Labour Commissioner, Uttar Pradesh , Kanpur , 
7 . Shri E . Balanandan , M .L .A . ( Vadakkekara ) P .O . Kalamassery, Ernakulam Dis 

trict, Kerala , 
8 . Shri R . K . Baweja , Presiding Officer, Central Government Industrial Court, Tis 

Hazari Court, Delhi. 


( ii ) for item 11, the following item shall be substituted , namely :-- 

Meniber 
" 11. Shri T . K . Mutsuddi, Judge , Fifth Industrial Tribunal and Chairman ( Ex-officio ) 

Minimum Wages Advisory Board , Now Secretariat Buildings , 1, K . S . Roy 
Road , Calcutta ." . 

[ No . 6 ( 26 ) /68 -LWI(I). ) 
C . R . NAIR , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the Ist. November 1968 
S . O . 4049, - In pursuance of section 17 of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 19.17 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishos the following award of the Contral Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial disputo between the employers in 
relation to the East Chora Colliery No . 10 Pit, 1 and 2 Incline, Post Office Bahula , District 
Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 25th 
October , 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA . 

REFERENCE No. 6 OF 1968 
PARITES : 
Employers in relation to the East Chora Colliery , No. 10 Pit, 1 and 2 Incline, 

AND 
Their workmien . 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerice, Presiding Officor . 
APPEARANCHS : 

On behalf of Employers - Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer . 

On behalf of Workmen - Shri Bishnu Malkhandy , Vice- President. 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY: Coal Minos. 
AWARD 


By Order No . 6 / 57 /67-LRII, dated December 22 , 1967 , the Government of ludia , in 
tho Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rebabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment ) , referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to tho 
East Chora Colliery, No. 10 Pit , 1 and 2 Inclino and their workmen , to this tribunal, for 
adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the denial of perinanent job to Shri Balkishan alias Ram Kishan , Machine 

Helper , with offect from the 22nd April , 1967, by the management of the East 
Chora Colliery (No. 10 Pit and 1 and 2 Inclinc ) was justified ? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled ?" . 


2 . The case of the workman was espoused by a trade union , known as the Colliery 
Mazdoor Sabha , which filed a written statement. The employer company did not file 
any written statement . At the hearing of this reference , the Mazdoor Sabha was repre 
sented by its Vice - President, Shri B . Malkhandy. The employer company was reprosented 
by its Deputy Chief Personnel Officer , Mr. K . C . Nandkeolyar. 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 2 , 1890 


5241 


3 . The case ploaded , on behalf of the workman concerned by the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha, is hercinafter related in brief. In paragraph 1 of the written statement, it is 
plcaded that Balkishan alias Ram Kishan (the workman concerned ) was working as a 
Machine Ilclper in the collicry of the cmployer company sinco the year 1962 . In para 
graph 2 of the written statement, it is further plcaded that the worknian was appointed in 
a permanent vacancy and was in continuous service from 1962 to April 22, 1967, In 
paragraphs 3 and 4 of the written statemçnt, it is alleged that, on April 22 , 1967 , the 
management arbitrarily stopped the workman from working on the pretext that he was 
a " badli" worker and that no work was available for him . Nevertheless , the employer 
company appointed another person to work in place of the concerncd workman . It is 
also alleged , in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the written statement, that the management victi 
mised the workman because they got annoyed with him on accoont of his trace union 
activities in the colliery , as an active member of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha . The chain 
made in the writton statement was for reinstatediçnt of the workman on permanent basis 
and payment of back wages since stoppage of work . 

4 . Mr. Malkhandy subinitted that thc workman concerned was a permanent employed 
and he could not be stopped from working. 

$ . The workman concerned himstif gave evidence in this case . In his evidence ho 
did not support the case plcaded in the written statement that he was appointed from the 
Year 1962. In the very first sentence of his examination -in -chict he stated that he was 
appointed in the collicry in the year 1964. Later on , he again repeated that he worked 
in the colliery from 1964 to 1967. In proof of the nature of his appointment under the 
cmployer company he produced an appointment letter which was marked Ext. A . That 
appointment letter is headed “ Badli Appointment" and states : 
" You are hereby appointed as a badli worker in place of Balkishan with effect 

from 9th September, 1965 to 30th Septembtr , 1965 * * * 
In his evidence he says: 
" After September 3 , 1965, sometimes I got badli appointment letter , sometimes I did 

not. I have produced all the papers that I got." 
Later on he said , " The appointment letter that I have filed is not the first appointment 
letter" . He did not, however, produce the other appointment letters and did not givo 
any reason for such non - production. In further proof of the case that he was in continuous 
employment from 1964 to 1967, the workman concerncd relied upon tho Certificate (Ext. 5 ) 
said to have been granted by the Manager of the employer company to tho following 
effect: 
" This is to certify that Shri Balkishan Yadav has been working in the collicry as 

U / G Machine helper off and on since 1964 to 1967. During his working 
period I found him most obcdient, sincere and careful worker. Ho is also a 

very hard worker and boars a good moral character, 
This certificate is given to him on the eve of my transfer to another colliery . 

I wish him success in his life .” 
Mr. Nandkcolyar did not admit that this was a goouine certificato granted by the manuger , 
his reason being that the certificate was not written out in the printed pad of the company 
nor by tho hand of the manager . Be that as it may , the certificate itself goes to show that 
the workman con erned was not in continuous employment from 1964 to 1967. The language 
used in the certificate is, " has been working in this colliery as a U / G Machinc hclper 
of an on since 1964 to 1967 " , that is to say at intervals . Also in support of the case 
of the continuous appointment, the workman relied on a Bonus Card (Ext. 3 ; and a Ration 
Card (Ext. 4 ) . According to his own cvidence tho bonus card related possibly to the voar 
1965 and the ration card related to the year 1964 . Mr. Nandkeolyar did not admit tha 
genuineness of the bonus card because it did not hear the signature of any colliery 
oficial. Mr. Nandkeolyar also contended that in the issue of ration card the employer 
company had little concern , because they were issued by the Block Development Ofcer 
and the ration shon scrved all residents of Chora colliery and not necessarily the employees 
of tho colliery . These documents, in my opinion , do not prove that the workman con 
cerned was in continuous employment from 1964 to 1967. 


6 . Regard being had to the discrepancy between the written statemcnt and the evidence 
and further regard being had to the language used in Ext 5 , the certificate said to have 
been granted by the manager, which described the workman concerned as an off and on 
employce and also regard being had to the language of the appointment letter , Ext. 1, I am 
Inclined to hold that the workman concerned was not a permancnt employee hut merely 
a " badli " tmployec and under the terms of his appointment ( vide Ext. A ) , his services 
could be terminated at any time without notice . I make it clear that the workman did not 


5242 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II — . 


appear to me to be a truthful witness. His own documents go against his case . I am 
reluctant to place any reliance on hiş evidence . 

7. Now , if the workman concerned was merely a " badli" worker , he had no right to 
a permanent job and if his services were terminated with cffect from April 22 , 1907, ho 
cannot insist upon reinstatemçnt. 

8 . In the vicw that I take , I hold that the denial of permanent job to the workman 
concerned with cfftct from April 22 , 1967, by the management, was justified and the work 
man is not entitled to any relief whatsoever, 
I make my award accordingly . 

( Sd . ) B . N . BANĽRJEE, 

Presiding Officer . 
Dated , 
October 18 , 1968. 

[No. 6 / 57 67-LRII.) 


S . O . 4050. - In puusuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial TH 
bunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to be South 
Bulliaree Kenduadih Colliery of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited , Post Office 
Jealgora , District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the Central Govera 
ment on the 25th October, 1968, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CUM LABOUR 

COURT NO , 1 , DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 (1 ) (d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 . 

REFERENCE No. 73 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the South Bulliaree Kenduadih Colliery of M / s . East Indian 

Coal Company Ltd ., P . O . Jealgora , Dist. Dhanbad. 


Vs. 
Their Workman , 
PRESENT: 

Shri Kamla Sahal, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES: 

For the Employers - Shri D . Narsingh , Advocato. 

For the Workman . - Shri Ram Mitra , Secretary , Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha. 
STATE : Bihar, 

INDUSTRY: Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 17th October, 1968 

AWARD 
Under its order No. 2 / 132 /67 -LRII dated the 25th November, 1967, the Central Gov 
ernment, in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation , (Deptt. of Labour 
and Employment) . New Delhi, has made this reference to this Tribunal for adjudication . 
The schedule , giving a description of the dispute , is as follows: 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of South Bulliaree / Kenduadih Colliery , Post 

Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad of Messrs East Indian Coal Company 
Limited , Post Office Sealgora , District Dhanbad in dismissing Shri Osman 
Mian , Mason Mazdoor from service with effect from the 5th May , 1967 , was 
justificd ? If pot, to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 


2 . The facts of the case as alleged by the company may be shortly stated . The East 
Indian Coal Company Ltd ., has what is called the Khoirah Group of collierics consisting of 
Khoirah as well as South Bulliarce and Kenduadih Collieries . Shri Harendra Prasad Gupta 
( M . W . 2 ) was employed as a colliery Manager in the East Indian Coal Co . Ltd ., but ho 
was sometime employed in South Bulliaree and sometimes in Kenduadih Colliery . On the 


SEC . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GALLTTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5243 

- = 
10th February, 1967 , he was employed as the Manager of Kenduadih Colliery , at about 
9 .00 A . M . on that date , ho was at the top of pit Ahuruh where he was distributing work 
to the worken . He was also issuing instructions. As that point of timu, Sri Osinan , 
the concerned workman , who was working as a mason mazdoor in South Bulliarce Colliery , 
came up to him and asked him to issue a coal slip in his ( Osman ) favour so that he 
couold get coal for his domestic use . Sri Gupta says that he did not koow Osman and 
that he , therefore , told him that hc was busy, that he did not know him and that ho 
(Osman ) should meel lil in his ollice Osman insisted upon getting coal but Sri Gupta 
told himn that he could not get coal at that time because he ( Sri Gupta ) was busy . Osman 
kept arguing but Sri Gupta did not pay attention to him . He then received a messago that 
the Agent was on the phone and he wanted to speak to himn Hearing this, he started 
leaving for the Attendance Room where the telcphone was kept . Osman stood in front of 
him and said that he could not let him go until the coal slip was issued . Sri Gupta put 
him aside and started going towards the phone . Osman than caught hold of his shirt with 
a view to stop him from going. As it was morning time, many workers were present 
ther . They caught hold of Osman and pulled him away, telling him all sorts of things, 

3. Sri Gupta conveyed information about tlie abovc incident to the Manager of Ken 
duadih Colliery , who drew up charycshcet ( Ext. M ) on the 11th February , 1967 . It 
was stated in the chargesheet that, at about 9 .00) AM , on the 10th February , 1967, Osman 
left his place of work , went to 5 pit Khoirah , met the collicry manager of Khoirah there , 
demanded coal for «lomystic use from him and created a scene by behaving in a most ugly 
And unmannerly way in the presence of others and thus committed misconduct under sub 
rules 5 and 18 of Rule 27 of the certificd standing orders . 

4 . Sri Osman replied to the chargesheet on the 14th February , 1967 . Ho admitted 
that he went to 5 pit Khoirah but said that he did so in the course of his duty in order to 
take sand . He further said that, linding Sri Gupta thețe , he isked him for it could slip 
stating that the " coal slip issued earlier was not allowed for some reason and others . He 
further said that his representation to Sri Gupta was not heeded . He was squarely 
abused instead . He closed his explanation by stating that, sering the bad mood of Sri 
Gupta , he left the place quietly without behaving , in any bad manner. 


3 . Not being satisfied with the cxplanation of Sri Osman , the management ordered Sri 
A . K . Mallik (who is no longer in the servicc of the company ) to hold a domnestic enquiry . 
After due not ce to the concerned workman , Sri Mallik held the enquiry on 21st February 
1967. At that cnquiry , the enquiring officer recorded the statements of witnesses. The 
statement of Sri Grupta is l- xt. M2, that of Sri Barho Singh , Minino Sirdal , is Ext. M } , 
that of Sri Rambilas is Ext. M3 ( a ) and that of Sri Gaza is Ext. M4. There are notes 
under all these statements to the effect that the statements were read over and explained 
in Hindi to Sri Osman who refused to sign the statements. It is also notel und some 
of these statements that Osman declined to cross examine thc witncsics . Ext. M5 is tho 
statement of Osman himself and Ext. M3 ( a ) is his signature at the foot of the statement 
along with the 21st February as the date . I may mention at this very stage that Osman 
has stated in his cvidence before me that neither the Manager nor any other witness was 
examined in his presence , Ile has gone to the length of saying that he himself was not 
asked to make his statement nor did he put his signature under any such statement. On 
being cross - examined , however , he has admitted that Ext. M5 ( a ) is his signature . 
has then been re - examined by Sri Ram Mitra , the Secretary , Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha 
who has appeared on his behalf. On being thus cross -examined , he has said that tho 
statement ( Ext . M5) was not read over or explained to him before hc put his signature 
(Ext. M5( a ) under it . He has added that he was told that, if he put his signature , he 
would be taken back into service from the next day . It is manifest that the whole of the 
statement made by him on re - examination is an after -thought and entirely falsc . If his 
evidence is read as a whole , the only conclusion that can be reached is that his first attempt 
was falscly to deny that he made any statement and , when admission that Ext. M5 ( a ) was 
his signature slipped out of his tongue. he attempted to make out case that the state 
mcnt was not read out to him and that he put the signature on account of allurement that 
be would he taken back into service . Had h s signature been taken under his own state 
ment by this allurement, there is no reason why his signatures were not taken under the 
statements of the witnesses hy the same means. I find it impossible to accept these state 
ments made by him as correct. 


6 , I may now make brief references to the written statements submitted by the union 
and the company. The union has stated that Osman was the Asstt. Secretary of the 
South Bulliarce Colliery Branch of the Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha and that his activitics 
were greatly disliked by the inanagement. The workers agitated in support of their de 
mand for publication of the Wage Board recommendations for the coal mining industry 
and , for this reason , the management began to coerce and victimise Osman who was an 


5214 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 (Part 11 


= 


= 


= 


office bearer . It has also been alleged that coal was supplied previously to workers with 
out any resti ction but subsequently the systum Was slarled for issuence of coal sups on tho 
basis of which coal began to be supplied and that the management stopped supply of coal 
Altogether to Osman . 

7 . The management has totally denied in its written statement the allegations made by 
the Union referred to above . It has stated that there was no case of industrial disputo 
within the mean . ng of section 2 ( k ) of the Industrial Disputes Act and hence this reterenco 
itsell is incompetent. It has further supported its case relating to the incident in question . 

8 . It seems to me to be unacccssary to decide the question whether the reference is or 
is not competent because , on a careful consideration of the entire evidence adduced in this 
case , I have come to the conclusion that the facts allcged by the management are true and 
that the management is entitled to succeed on merits, 

9 . As I have already mentioned , Osman did not make out any case in his reply dated 
the 14th February , 1967 that he was an office bearer of Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha nor 
did he make any reference in that statçment to victimisation due to his trade union activi 
ties . The union raised the dispute before the Asstt. Labour Commissioner (C ), Dhanbad 
by its letter duted the 24th May , 1967 in connection with termination of the services of 
Osman . That letter is annexure A to the written statement of the company. No allega 
tion of victimisation or of Osman being an office bearer of the Sabba has been made in this 
letter. The only statement which has been made is , " the action taken by the management 
is totally unjust , unfair and with a malafide intention " . This bare statement does not 
make out a case of victimisation in fact or a case of trade union activities of Osman as 
an otfico bearer of the Sabha. All these allegations are , therefore , afterthoughts and must 
be rejected . Osman has some statement on these lines in his evidence beforo one but 
there is no evidence , oral or documentary , to support his evidence. He is a highly in 
terested witness and I am not prepared to accept his unsupported testimony . 

10 . I have gone through the statements recorded by Sri A . K . Mallik , the enquiry 
officer , Sri H . P . Gupta has fully supported his case in the statement ( Ext . M2) which ho 
made before Sri Mallik , S / Sri Barho Singh . Rambilas and Gaza hayo fully supported 
his evidence in their statements ( Ext. M3, M3 ( a ) and M4) . Though Osman bus made 
various addition in his statement ( Ext, M5) , he had admitted therein that lie caught hold 
of Sri Gupta s shirt but other workers took him away . He has attributed this act to tho 
fact that Sri Gupta was abusing him but that is not supported by any other evidence . He has 
also admitted that, though he does not recollect the presence of others, Gaza was present 
at the place of occurrence. In view of the notes made at the end of the statenients of 
witnesses and in view of the fact that Osman s statement was also recorded by the enquir 
ing officer, I have no doubt at all that the entire evidence adduced on behalf of the com 
pany was recorded in his presence. I have also no doubt that he was given full oppor 
tunities to cross examine the company s witnesses and to adduce his defence . I am satis 
ficu , therefore , that the enquiring offices did not commit any breach of the rules of natural 
justice. In view of thesc facts , he has rightly recorded the findings in his report ( Ext. M6 ) 
that Osman left thc place of his duty without leave and further that he behaved in an 
unruly and unmannerly way. These acts amount to breach of sub - rules 5 and 18 of rule 
27 of the standing orders , 

11. Bctore me, the inanagement examined Sri J , P , Shrivastava ( M . W . 1 ). He has 
formally proyed all the enquiry papers filed by the company. Sri H . P . Gupta ( M . W . 2 ) 
has supported the facts as alleged hy him , All that has been argued by Sri Ram Mitra 
against him is that he has not produced the letter which he claims to have written to tho 
manager of South Bulliaree Colliery . In my opinion, this is not at all important. The 
charge was framed by the Manager of that colliery and he has mentioned in it all the 
salient facts alleged by Sri Gupta . It cannot, thereforç , be said that his letter, if produced , 
would have shown some other faults. 

12 . In the circumstances mentioned above , I hold that the domestic enquiry was held 
properly and legally and no reasons has been made out to interfere with it. The com 

any has also proved its allegations through Sri H , P . Gupta before me. He is no longer 
in the service of the Fast Indian Coal Co. Ltd ., and there is no reason why he should 
have deposed falsely before the Tribunal. 

13. In conclusion , I hold that the company has proved its cane and that the manage 
ment of South Bulliaree /Kenduadih Colliery was justified in dismissing Sri Osman Mian . 
Mason Mazdoor, from service with effect from the 5th May , 1967. The second question 
does not, therefore, arise for consideration. 

14 This is my award . It may now be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Act. 

(Sd .) KAMLA SAHAT, 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 2 / 132 /67 -LRII. ] 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5245 
- = = = - = = = - - 

= = = 
New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S . O . 4051. - - -In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , 
the Central Government liuseby publish the following audid of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ). Dhanbud , in the industrial dispute between the einployers in 
relation to the Icalçord Collicly of Messrs Last Indian Coal Company Limited, Post Ollice 
Jealgora , District Dlanlad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Gov 
crament on the 29th October, 1968. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

DHANBAD 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao . - Presiding Oflicer . 

REFERENCE No . 142 OP 1967 
In the matter of an industrial disputes under Section 10 (1)(d ) of the Industrial Dir. 

putes Act, 1947 , 


PAXTIES : 
Enployers in relation to the Yealgora Colliery of Morsrs East Indian Coal Company 

Limited , Post Office Jcalgora , District Dhanbad . 


AND 


Their workmon 
APPEARANCES ; 

For the employers. Shri $ . S . Mukherjce, Advocato . 
For the workmen . - Shri Ram Janam Singh , Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh 

(Bararec Colliery Branch ). 
STATB : Bihai, 

INDUSTRY : Coal 
Dhanbad , 17th October 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial disputo exists between the 
employers in relation to the Jcolgora Colliery of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited , 
Post office Jcalgora , District Dhanbad and their workmen , by ils order No. 2 / 53 / 66 -LRLI 
dated 7th May, 1966 , referred to the Central Goveroment Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad 
ander Section 10 ( 1 )( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication tho dispute in 
respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted 
below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Jealgora Colliery of Messrs East Indian Coal 

Company I imited was justified in stopping Shri Charitar , Trammer No. 7 
Pit, from work with effect from the 13th November, 1965 ? If not , to what 

relief is the workman entitled ? " 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 86 of 1906 on its file . While it was pending before the Central Govern 
ment Industıial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal, by the 
Central Government by its order No . 8 / 25 /67-LRII dated 8th May , 1967. Conscquently 
thic reference is renumbered on the file of this Tribunal as reference No . 142 of 1967 . 
Employers as well as the worlmcn filed their statements of demands . 

3 . Partics Aled a compromise memo stating that the dispute involved in thc rcferenco 
has been scttled to the complete satisfaction of the parties . The compromise memo is duly 
Verifled . Having gone through the ternis of compromise , I consider them as fair and reason 
able and beneficial to the affected workmin . The compromise is, thereforc, nccept it and 
the award is inade in terins of the compromise . The compromise memo is annexed here 
with and is inadc part of the award . Tho award is submitted under Section 15 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , 

Dhanbad 


5246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 ( PART II 


= 


= 


S 


- 


. . - - 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 


In the matter of 

REFERENCE No . 142 OF 1967 
PARTIES: 

Employers in relation to Jealgora Colliery of M /s. East Indian Coal Co., Ltd . 


AND 


Their workmon 
The humble Petition on behall of the Parties above -named . 
Most Respecifully Sheweth :- - 

(1 ) That without prsjudice to the respective contentions of the parties contained in their 
Written Statement, the above Kelerence has been amicubly sculled on thc following terms: 
(a ) That Shri Chartar , lrammer , workman concerned in the present Reference is 

Do longer intcrested to continue in service and his claim for reinstatement is 

not pressed , 
(b ) That Shri Charitar s services will be decmed to have been terminated with effect 

from 13th November , 1965, 
(c ) That Shri Charitar will be paid a sum of Rs. 1 , 200 (Rupees one thousand two 

hundred only ) as an Fr- gratia Payment in full and final settlement of all his 

clainis and demands till this date of settlement. 
(d ) That the Union (Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Bararcc- Jealgora Branch ) will be paid 

a sum of Rs. 100 (Rupees One hundred only) as cost of this proceeding . 
(e ) That the payments mentioncd in sub -paragraphs ( c ) and ( d ) above will be made 
by the management within one weck from the date of this settlement. 
It is, therefore, humbly prayed that this Compromise may kindly be recorded and 

an Award passed in terms thereof , 
Dated 31.st August 1968 
For the Workmen 

For the Employer 
( 1 ) (Sd. ) RAM JANAM SINGH 

( 1 ) (Sd ) K , R . DHADWAL , 
Secretary , Colliery 

Acig . Chief Mining Engineer, 
Mazdoor Sangh , (Barareo 

East Indian Coal Co . Ltd . 
Jcalgora Branch ). 

P . O . Jealgora (Dhanbad ). 
( 2 ) ( Sd .) CHARITAR 

( 2 ) ( S1 ) N . P . SAHI, 
Concerned workman , 

Labour Adviser , 
East Indian Coal Co. Ltd . 
( 3 ) ( Sd .) S . S . MUKHERJEE , 

Advocate , 
Dhanbad . 

(No. 2 / 53 /66 -LRIT. ] 


S . O . 4052. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 ot 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Centrul 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ), Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Bhulanbararec Colliery , Post Office Patherdih , District Dhanbad 
and their workmon , which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October , 
1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD , 
PRESENT; 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao - -Presiding Officer. 

REFERENCE No. 131 OP 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1)( d) of the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bhulanbararee Colliery , Post Office Patherdih , District 

Dhanbad . 
Their workmen 

AND 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


Sec . 3 ( i ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 5247 

- . . - --= = - - - - - - 
APPEARANCES : 

for the employers . — Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . 

For the workmen - None . 
STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal 


Dhanbad , 1911 October, 1968 


AWARD 


The Central Government , being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in iclation to the Bhulanbararee Colliery , Post office Patherdih , District Dhanbad 
and their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 8 / 66 -LRII dated 7th April 1966 referred to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1) (d ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specificd in 
the schedule annexed thercto . "The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of thc Bhulanbarårec Collicry was justified in suspending 

Shri Abbas Mi. , Mining Sirdar, with effect from the 9th November 1965 and 
subsequently dismissing him from service with effect froin the 9th December 
1965 ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 


2 . The Central Goverpment Jadustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 69 of 1966 on its file . Workmen filed their statement of demands. While it 
was panding before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad , the proceeding 
wis transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 / 67-LRII 
dated 8th May 1967. Consequently , thc reference is renumbered on the ſile of this Tribunal 
as reference No. 131 of 1967. Employers filed their statement of demands . 


3 . Shri Abbas Mia ( hereinafter referred to as the affected workman ) was a Mining 
Sirdar at Bhulanbararcc Collicry of the cmployers. From 2nd October 1965 to 5th 
October 1965 were paid holidays at the collicry on account of Mahatma Gandhi Birth day 
and Durga Puj. , The affected workman Icft for his native village and want to report to duty 
on 6th October 1965 . But he did not do so . He sent an application to the management 
for extension of his Icavc , without mentioning the period , on account of his illness . Ho 
reported at the colliery for duty on 9th November 1965 with fitness certificate . But he was 
not permitted to join duty . On 15th November 1965 a chargc - sheet was issued to him 
for his unauthorised absence from 6th October 1965 to 8th November 1965 . The affected 
workman submitted his cxplanation to the charge - shect on 17th November 1965 and a 
domestic enquiry was held and, as a result of it dismissed him from service through the 
letter dated 9th December 1965. These facts are not controverted . The case of the work 
men is that thc uſfected workman went to his village during the holidays, that he fell ill, 
that on 7th October 1963 he sent the letter for extension of his lcave on the ground ot 
his illness , that the mangument did not send any reply to it, that the affected workman 
believed that the extension of leave asked for was granted , that on 9th November 1965 
he returned to the colliery along with a fitness certificate , that the management refused 
him permission to join duty unjustifiably and issued the charge- sheet with baseless alle 
gation and that the dismissal of the affected workman was not justified and was illegal. 
The case of the employers is that affected workman being a Mining Sirdar and a member 
of cssential staff of the colliery , he was not expected to leave the colliery even during 
holidays without prior permission , that the application for extension of leave Srom the 
affected workman was for an indefinite , that period and was not accompanied by any 
medical certificate , that there was no reason for the affected workman to believe that his 
leave was extended , that on 9th November 1965 when he arrived at the colliery the affected 
workman was not permitted to resume duty till he had submitted satisfactory cxplanation 
for his linauthorised absence , that a domestic enquiry held against him on the charge was 
in accordance with the principles of natural justice and valid and that as a result of the 
domestic enquiry the affected workman was rightly dismissed from service . At the early 
stage tho workmen were represented by Shri Prasanta Burman , Secretary , Khan Mazdoor 
Congress. The employers were represented by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Advocate . By 
consent of partics Exts, WI and M1 to M3 were marked . On 29th July 1968 1:0 ono 
represented the workmen On 11th September 1968 also no one apocared for the work . 
men , nor was there any explanation on their behalf for not appearing. Thus, the caso 
proceeded against the workmen in accordance with Rule 22 of the Industrial Disnutes 
(Central) Rules 1957 . On behalf of tho employers a witness was examined Exts . M4 to 
M6 were marked . 


5248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 


4 . In view of the admitted facts the only point for consideration is whether the 
domestic enquiry held against the affected workman was correct. MW . 1 waga Group 
Labour Oflicer of Bhulanbararee Collicry during the material period . His evidence is that 
Shri B . N , Jha , Welfare Ollicer held the domcstic enquiry into the charge-sheet. Tho 
enquiry proceedings are Ext. M4 and the enquiry report is Ext. MS. The charge -sheet 
issued to the affected workman is Ext. M1 stating that he was absent without permission 
from 6th October 1965 to 8th November 1965. The explanation to the chargc-shcct sub 
mitted by the affected workman is Ext, M2, Ext. M4, the enquiry proceedings show that the 
Enquiry Officer had recorded statements of Shri A . N . Chatterjee and the affected workman , 
It is seen that the affected workman was given an opportunity to cross -examine the manage 
ment s witness . The affected workman did not produco any further evidence . Hence It 
cannot be said that the enquiry proceedings were vitiated or that the finding of the Enquiry 
Officer was perverse Mwi has further deposed that the affected workman is working at 
present as an Overman , a higher post in Kankani colliery and that he had written a letter 
to him . The letter is Ext. M6 . It is addressed to the Chief Mining Engineer of the 
employers. It says that the affected workman is no more interested in the reference . Thero 
is no rebuttal to this evidence . Thus, I find no substance in the case set up by the workmen . 

3 . I, therefore , find that the mangement of Bhulanbararee Colliery was justified in 
puspending Shri Abbas Mia , Mining Sirdar , with effect from the 9th November , 1965 and 
subsequently dismissing him from service with effect from the 9th December, 1965, and 
consequently , he is not entitled to any relief . The award is made accordingly and sub 
mitted unler Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 2), 

Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 8 / 66 -LRII.) 


S .O . 4033. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers la 
relation to the Samla Dalurband Colliery , Post Office Pandeshwar , District Burdwan and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October , 1968. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

REFERENCB No. 10 OF 1968 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the Şamla Dalurband Colliery 

AND 
Their workmen , 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee . . . . . . . . Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

On behall of Employers, Absent 
On behalf of Workmen , Shri Benarshi Singh Azad , General Secretary , Khan Shramik 

Congress 
State : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mino . 
AWARD 


Bv Order No. 6 / 77 /67 -LRII, dated February 21 , 1968, the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment). refeted the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Samla 
Dalurband Collicry and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of Samla Dalurband Colliery Post Office Pandaveshwar 

(District Burdwan ), West Bengal, was justified in refusing employment to 
Shri Ch . Hari Bouri, Underground Trammer with effect from the 1st August , 
1967 and thereafter on grounds of resignation by him ? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled to ? " 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5249 


2 . Tho cuuso of the workman was espoused by a trade union known as Khan Shramik 
Congress , which filed a written statement. Thereafter, the employer company also filed a 
written statement. The employer company did not further appear . To - day , which was fixed 
as the date of hearing with notices to the parties , Mr. B , S . Azad , General Secretary of 
Khan Shramik Congress , appeared on behalf of the workman , filed a compromise petition 
and stated that the dispute between the workman concerned and the employer company 
stood scttled on terms contained in the petition of compromiso and that no further disputo 
oxisted between them . He prayed that the compromise may be recorded and an award 
passod in terms thercof. Mr. Azad deposed himself and proved the terms of the compro 
mise. He also proved the signatures appearing on the compromisc petition . In view of tho 
compromise petition and the prayer , I find that no further dispute exists between tho 
parties now . 

3 . I, therefore , record the terms of compromise and pass an award in terms thereof . 
Let the petition of compromiso form part of this award . 

(Sd .) B . N , BANERJEF , Presiding Officer. 
Dated , 14ih October 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 20 , BRITISH 

INDIAN STREET, 3rd FLOOR , CALCUTTA 
In the matter of Reference No. 10 of 1968 


AN > 


In the matter of Industrial Dispute 

BETWEEN 
Employer in relation to the Samla Dalurband Colliery, P. O . Pandaveshwar, Dist. 
Burdwan . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by Khan Shramik Congress , P . O . UKHRA , Distt. 

Burdwan . 

Cunipromise Petition on Behalf of the Above-Named Parties 
The above reference has been amicably settled between the parties on the following 
terms:-- - 
1 . Thut Sri Ch . Hari Bouri bas received his full and final payment and is no longer 

interested in the service with the Management or the present proceeding 

pending beforc this Hon ble Tribunal, 
2 . "That at the request of the Union the Management has agreed to pay a sum of 

Rs. 250 / - as an er- gratia paynient in full and final scttlement of all claim 

and demand to Ch . Hari Bouri till the datc of this settlement, 
3 . That there is no disputo existing between the Management and the workman 

regarding Sri Ch . Hari Bouri which needs adjudication by this Hon blo 

Tribunal. 
It is, therefore , humbly prayed that the compromise may kindly be accepted and an 
Award passed in terms thereof. 
For Workman, 
(Sd.) ILLT:GHT.L , 
General Secretary . Khan Shramik Congress of Ukhra . 

For Sainla Dalurband Coal Co . P . Ltd . 

(Sd .) Illegiblo , 

Director, 
er Employer. 


[No. 6 / 77 /67-LRICH 


S . O . 4054. — In pursuance of the section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Lower Kenda Collicry , Post Once Kajoragråm , District Burdwan and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October, 1968 . 


5250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [ Part II 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 96 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Lower Kenda Colliery , 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT; 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of Employers.-- - Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate . 
On behalf of Workmen . - Shri Bishnu Malkhandy, Vice-President. 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 
AWARD 


By Order No . 6 /74 /67-LRII, dated December 7 , 1967, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
mont ), referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Lower 
Kenda Colliery and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of Lower Kenda Colliery Post Office Kajoragram , District 

Durdwan of Messrs Khas Kenda Colliery (Private ) Limited was justified in 
terminating the services of Shri Pankuj Rajan Moitra , Coal Cutting Machine 
Superviser , with effect from the 25th May , 1967 ? If not, to what relief is the 
workman entitled " 


2 . The Colliery Mazdoor Sabba , which espoused thc cause of the workman concerned , 
filed a written statement. The case pleaded in this written statement is hereinafter pum 
marised in brief . 

3 . It is said that the workman concerned was appointed in a permanent vacancy as a 
machine Supervisor on or about August 1, 1961. He was given facilities, by the employer 
company, to attend the L . E . E . classes at Asansol Polytechnic Institution in order to develop 
his skill and knowledge ( vide item 4 of thc bundle of documents collectively marked Ext. 
A ) . On March 23, 1967, the management called upon him to supervise the overhauline 
and repair of a coal cutting machine lying in the stores ( vide item 1 of the bundle of 
documents marked Ext. A ) . The effect of this order was, it was pleaded , withdrawal of 
facilities to the workman to attend the Polytechnic classes. It is further stated , in the 
written statement, that the work man was not given the required materials nor the assistanco 
of machine fitters to do the job of overhauling and he remained idle . In paragraph 5 of 
the written statement it is stated : 
" The purpose of so placing Shri Moitra to the said job was solely to harnes and 

deprive him of the opportunity to attend classes ," 


It is also plçaded , in the written statement, that, on April 5 , 1967 , the na: 13 gement issued 
a chargeshçct against the concerned workmin for being negligent in duty on the same day . 
There was an enquiry held into the charge , but, it is alleged , that the charge could not be 
substantiated . Thereafter on April 16 , 1967 , it is further alleged , that the management 
issued a letter to the workman concerned asking him to work under thç direct supervision 
and control of the colliery Engineer , Mr. K . P . Moitra . On April 19 , 1967, it is said , the 
workman concerned received a telegram informing him aboul serious illncss of his mother . 
Thereupon, he went to the oflice with an application for leave to go home. He did not , 
it is said , find the manager in the office . He, therefore , left the application with his direct 
superior , Mr. Moitra , and went away with permission from him to go home. According 
to the written statement, he applied for cxtension of leave for 21 days , by a letter dated 
April 26 , 1967, hecause of continued illness of his mother . This letter was said to have 
been sent under certificate of posting . Further, according to the written statement, he 
himself becamc ill and applied for further extension of leavo by a registered letter on 
May 15 , 1967 . At this stage , it is pleaded , the employer company issued a charge -sheet 
against the workman , dated May 10 , 1967, for unauthorised absence , which he received 
on May 20, 1967. He also received another letter, dated May 19 , 1967, 
trom the Management calling upon him to return for duty within 48 houn 
of receipt of the letter , with the warning that failure to do so will entail loss 
of lien on servicc . A combined reply to the chargcsheet dated May 10 , 1967 and the 
etter dated May 19 , 1967 was said to have been sent by the workman on May 22 , 1967. 


Sec , 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5251 


Notwithstanding the cause shown by thc workman , it is stated , the management issued 
a letter, dated May 25, 1967, terminating his services, with effect from the same date . 

4 . A two - fold grievance was made against the order of termination of service in tho 
written statement, namely ( 1 ) that the charge duted May 10), 1967 was a false charge 
and was engineered in order to victimise the workmin concerned , the reasons for victi 
misation being that the workman concerned had worked against Mr. J . V . Mukherjeo , 
the owner of the colliery , in the last Parliamentary Election in favour of his opponent, 
and that thc workman concerned was an active member of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha 
a leftist trade union ; ( ii) that nu enquiry had been held into the charge levelled against 
the workman . 

5 . There was also a writte :: statement filed on behalf of the employer company. 
The case pleaded in the written statement was that the workman concerned had been 
granted only two days leave for April 20 and 21 , 1967, on his application dated April 
19 , 1967, He did not return after the expiry of the sanctioned letvu but continued to 
remain absent without intorn . tion . It wiis further pleaded that for the unauthorised 
absence from April 22 , 1967, a chargeshect, dated May 10 , 1967, was sent to the workman 
calling upon him to explan his conduci. Instead ot replying to the chargcshcet, it was 
alleged , the workian wrote a letter, dated May 15 , 1967, asking for leave, unlimitod 
until his own uncertain date of recovery . Thercupon, it was said , by a letter, dated May 19 , 
1967, that the employer company Nads able to wait for him indefinitely urd unless 
he reported for duty within 48 hours of the receipt of the lctlei, he would lose lien on his 
servicc . In spite of above letter , tre workman did not report for tury . Tiuteron , the 
Manager proposed in wr ting to the Director of the employer company for termination 
of the services of the workinan for abscnteeism and on receipt of his approval 
terminated the services of the workman hy letter dated May 25 , 1967. 


Bervice opted for dumployer com a cover 


6 . It is in the background of the pleadings , as stated above, I have to decide tho 
dispute referred to this tribunal. 


7 . The application for leave , which the workman concerned submitted on May 19 , 
1967, did not ask for any period of leave. The letter (item 1 of the bundle collectively 
marked Ext. 1 ) is set out below : 
" Most icspectfully I want to inform you that just now I have got a telcgram from 

my elder brother. My mother is serious. So I want to go my homo as soon 

as possible . 
I will be highly obliged and grateful to you . Kindly give me permission to go 

home. Telegram is attached herewith ." 


On this letter there is the endorsement " leave granted for two days only foum 20th 
April , 1967 to 21st April, 1967” . The workman says in his evidence that he wroto 
to the management a letter , on April 26 , 1967, under certificate of posting, (which are 
respectively marhed Ext. Cand Ext. B ) explaining the circumstances under which ho 
came away and asking for 21 days leave with effect from the date of the leller . The 
management denics receipt of this letter. The workman could not explain why this 
particularly important letter was sent under certificate of posting, while other letters 
were sent by registererd post. Moreover , the workman says in his evidence , there is 
a local post oflice in the area where his home is situated , known as Dakhín Dhatka 
Post Ollice . The certificate of posting does not bear the scal of that post office but the 
seal of some temporary post offlve somewhere situated . Why this part ular Ictter could 
not be sent from in , local post office buit had to he posted at some un .nown temporary 
post office does rot appear. It is also stronge that the workman concerned made no 
enquiries as to what happened to his application for 21 days lcave and appeurs to have 
kept que l itil May 15 , 1967, when only hc asicd for another extension of his leave for 
an indeluit period until his recovery . It is noteworthy that in this letter Uso thero 
is no toferi ncc to his alleged letter dated April 26 , 1967. I do not therefore fool that it 
would be safe to pocecd on the basis of the letter Ext. C . The management may be 
right in their contuntion that they never received the letter . Be that as it may , the employer 
company and to have been prepared to condone his absence, because by letter dated 
May 19, 1967 (itern 13 of the bundle marked Ext. A ) , they called upon the workman 
to report for duty within 48 hours of the receipt of the letter and gave himn the warning 
that if he failed to do so , he would lose lien on his service . The workm : n did not 
comply with this requisition or get wiser by the warning but by a letter , dated May 22 , 
1967, asked for leave upto June 6 , 1967. The letter dated May 23, 1967 ( item 15 of the 
bundle marked Ext. A ) is letter of termination of service 


8 . In his evidence the workman adin tted that he had only 10 days leave due to him , 
If he was expecting that his carned lectve should not be refused to him , he could remain 
on leave only for 10 days only . Instead thereof , he aspired to be on leave from 20th 


5252 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART U 
S = - - = 

= = = = = = 
April 1967 to 6th June 1967 knowing full well that the employer company was not pre 
pared to grant him leave for so long and had even adıninistered a warning to him . If in 
those circumstances , the employer company wanted to terminate his service for absen 
tecism , I am not prepared to hold that the action of the company was unwarranted . 

9 . I now turn to the argument that the workman concerned should not have been dis 
missed without enquiry and want an opportunity to him to show cause at the cnquiry . I 
do not make much of this argument. The effect of thc two decisions of the Supremo 
Court in Burn and Co . v their workmen , ( 1957 ) I LIJ 226 and insiun iron ann Sleri Co . 
y Workmen , ( 1958 ) I LLJ 260 , is that a formal enquiry in cascs of termination of servico 
for absenteeism is not essential unless , of course , the absence itself was caused by the 
malafide action of the employer. In this case , it is not the allegation of thc workman that 
his absence was in any way caused by the employer company. He was absenting of 
his own accord , in the hope that leave would be granted to him , without ascertaining what 
risk he was incurring by overstaying leave and by disrespecting the warning of loss of licn 
01 service contained in the letter dated 19th May 1967 . He did not care to show a 
proper cause to the chargesheet dated 10th May 1967 . In these circumstances I cannot 
make much of thc criticism that the dismissal without an enquiry vitiated the order of 
termination of service . In this context , I propose to make one observation . Earned leava 
should be liberally granted . The difficulties of a workman should be considered and leavo 
should be granted , if he can be helped . But a workman should not be conceded the right 
to takc leave at his pleasure and to remain absent for as long as he likes. In making this 
observation, I am reminded of an observation made by Das Gupta , J of the Supremo 
Court in Indian Oxygen v its workmen , ( 1963 ) I LLJ at 266 ; 
" It is hardly necessary to say that, specially at the present time emphasis in the coun 

try should be more on increased production and absence from work should 

not be unduly encouraged." 
In the instant case, the workman went to the extent of remaining absent as he liked . 
I am not prepared to condone such a conduct. 

10 . I now take up for consideration the point that the workman was victimised , because 
he had taken part in helping an opponent of the proprietor of the colliery in the last Parlia 
mentary Election and also becauso he was an active member of a Communist trade union , 
The entire allegation in this respect is based on the belief of the workman concerned and 
thy Vice -President of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha. This bel ef may bo a preconceived or 
a highly coloured type of belief and the evidence on this point does not impress me. 

11. It was lastly contended beforo me that under clause 10 ( e ) of the Standing Orders 
of the employer company, the workman could only loşc licn over his appointment but was 
entitled to be kept on the budli list. On behalf of the employer company reliance wag 
placed on clause ( n ) of Rule 18 of the Standing Order and it was argued that continued 
absence without permission and without satisfactory cause for more than 10 days constituted 
misconduct and for misconduct it wag open to the employer company to impose the proper 
penalty upon the workman concerned . In my opinion , the conduct of the workman con 
cerned falls under the mischief of clause ( n ) of Rule 18 of the Standing Order. If thero 
are two alternative provisions of the Standing Order , it is open to the employer to choose 
any of the provisions and deal with the workman Accordingly [ vide the observations of 
Wanchoo CJ. in National Engineering In 31ries 1 .1. Hannion ( 1957 ) LLJ 883 at p . 
887 ) . In my opinion , the provision of 10 ( e ) and 10 ( n ) aro alternative to each other and 
I do not find any substance in this contention also . 


12. In the result, I hold that the termination of services of Pankaj Ranjan Moitra , Coal 
Cutting Supervisor , with effect from 25th May 1967, was justified and the workman is not 
ontitled to any relief in this reference . 


I make my award accordingly. 


Dated , October 13, 1968. 


(Sd.) B . N . BANERJEE, 

, Presiding Officer 
[No. 6 / 74 / 76 -LRII.) 


S . O . 4055 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Go 
verainent Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act, from Miss Madhuri Majumdar, Junior Female Nurse, Sanctor a Hospital 
of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited , Post Office Dishergash , District Burdwan (West 
Bengal ) which was received by the Central Government on the 25th October, 1968. 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARIIKA 25, 1890 


5253 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No. 3 OF 1968 

(Under Section 33A of I.D . Act) 
PARTILS : 


Miss Madhuri Majumdar , Jr. Female Nurse, Sanctoria Hospital of M /s . Bongal Coal 
Co. Ltd ., Burdwan 

Applicant, 
Versus 
The Management of Bengal Coal Co. Ltd ., Dt. Burdwan 

Opp . Party. 


PRESENT: 

Shri B . N . Banerjee , Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Opp . Purty. - Shri B . P . Kabi, Security Officer . 
On behalf of Applicant. - Shri J. K . Gupta , Secrctary , Sanctoria Hospital Nursing 

Staff and Employees Union . 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mines, 


AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

2 . By Order No. 6 /67 /68-LRII , dated 14th August 1968, the Government of India , in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rchabilitation ( Departinent of Labour and 
Enıployment ) referred the following lispute between the employers in relation to the 
management of Sanctoria IIospital of Mc955 Bengal Coal Company Limited , and their work 
men , to this tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of the Sanctoria Hospital owncd by Messrs Bengal Coal 

Company Limited , Post Office Dishergarh , District Burdwan was justificd in 
dismissing Miss Madhuri Mazıiındar, female Nurse from service with effect 

from the 1st of June , 1968. If not, to what relief is she entitled ?" 
3. Now that thc above reference has been made under Sec . 10 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act , 1947 , it was stated on behalf of the applicant that she would not press the appli 
cation under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , on the ground that the dis 
missal had been made without approval of the tribunal during the pendency of an indus 
trial disputc . 

4 . Since the application is not pressed , I dismiss the application . This will not, how 
ever , in any way , prejudice thc hearing of the Reference under Section 10 , of which mçn 
tion has hereinbefore been mado . 
This may be treated as my award . 

(Sd. ) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Dated October 19 , 1968 . 

(No. 6 /67 /68-LRII ]. 
S . O . 4056 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hercby publishes the following award of the Cenlmal Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to thc 7 and 8 Pits Jamuria Colliery of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited , 
Post Office Discrgarh , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 29th October , 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 24 of 1968 


PARTIES : 


Employers in relation to the 7 und 8 Pits Jamuria Colliery of M / s. Equitable Coal 

Company Ltd . 


AND 


Their workmen . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri B . N . Banerjcc , Presiding Officer . 


5254. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II 

-- - - - - - - - -- 

- - - . -- -- _ : . - - - - 
APPEARANCES; 

On behalf of Employers - Sri M . K . Mukherjee, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri J. Pandey , Vice -President, Colliery Mazdoor Congress . 
State : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mincs , 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 24 /68-LR . II , dulcd April 8 , 1968, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
mçnt) , referred the following dispute between the cmployers in relation to tho 7 and 8 
· Pits Jamuria Collicry of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited and their workmen , to 
this tribunal, for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the management of 7 and 8 Pits Jamuria Colliery was justified in dis 

missing from service Sri Janardan , Stone Dusting and Watering Mazdoor, 
with effect from the 22nd December, 1967 ? If not, to what ielieſ is be 

entitled ? " 
2 . The workman concerned was charged with theft from the underground , of a length 
of hose pipe used for water spraying purposes . He was found guilty at inc enquiry and 
was dismissed for misconduct. This gave rise to an industrial dispute and the cause of 
the workman was cspoused by a trade union known as Collicry Mazloor Congress , which 
filed a written statement, 

3. According to thc written statement, the workman had put in 14 years of faithful 
service as a sand dusting and watering inaziour, in the cmployer company . In paragraphs 
2 and 3 of the writtcn statement, it is stated that on September 9 , 1907, thc workmau had 
his duty underground in tho third shift ( beginiung from the midnight of Suptember 7 , 
1967 10 8 A . M , of September 8 , 1967 ) . He came out of the mine at 8 A . M , after the end 
of his shift work . While underground he worked under the supervision of a Mining 
Sirdar and while he lett, he came along with other workmen working underground . What 
was nicant to be said , in paragrapn 3 was that the concerned workman had little oppor 
tunity to commit any thcft underground under the watchful eyes of the Mining Sirdar and 
his theft could not yo un - noticed when hc was coming out with his co -workers. In para 
ITAph 4 of the written statement, it was further stated that the charge alleging that the 
workman had stolen a length of hose pipe , measuring 70 ( fcct ) was vatrue. Apart from 
characterising that the charge was untrue , it was alleged in the written statement, that 
allegation of the management regarding theft was not fully disclosed in the chargesheet, 
the domestic enquiry was a mockery and the proceedings were most perlunctory . It was 
further alleged that the workman was not given opportunity to show cause against " fiesb 
allegations procured by the management and disclosed for the first time at the enquiry 
stage." It was also alleged that the enquiring officer did not give opportunity to the 
workman to examine the Mining Sirdar as his witness. It was lastly alleged that the 
enquiring officer was a " tool in the hands of the collicry manager and that there were 
good reasons to believe that the workmen having had become surplus to tho management s 
requirement, the management dismissed him on a falso charge in order to avoid retrench 
ment and payment of retrenchment compensation . 

4 . In the rejoinder submitted by the employer company , the allegations contained in 
the written statement filed by the Mazdoor Congress were denied and disputed . It was 
stated that the workman had been specifically charged with theft. He was allowed to show 
cause to the charge which he did . There was a proper enquiry with all opportunities to 
the workman to defend himself . He was found guilty on evidence and was accordingly 
dismissed . The allegations that fresh materials, not disclosed in thc chargesheet, were 
produced at the enquiry or that thc cuiquiring officer was a biased person or that opportunity 
to examine witnesses was not given to the workman concerned , were denied . 

5 . On behalf of the employer company the enquiring officer , A . K . Tarafdar, guve 
evidence . He proved the chargesheet and the reply thereto by the workinan (Ext. 1 ) , the 
notice of enquiry sent to the workman and the proceedings of the enquiry . 

6 . On behalf of the union , the workman himself deposed . I shall refer to the oral and 
documentary evidence, in detail, later on in this award . 

7 . Mr. J. N . Pandey , who represented the trade union , submitted , in the first placo, 
that the charge against the workman was vague and not understandable and it was impossible 
for the workman to give a proper reply to such a charge . What họ wanted to argue was 
that because of the vagueness, the chargesheet must be condemned as violating the principles 
of natural justice . In order to examine this argument, it is necessary for me to refer to the 
language of the charge itself ( Ext. 1 ) : 
" You have stolen away about 70 hose pipe from underground used for water spray 

ing purpose. You are charged for theſt of company s property . 
You are suspended pending enquiry ." 


- 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5255 

- - - - -- - - - - - 

- - - 

- - 
The particular faults found by Mr. Pandey in this charge wero that the place of the theft 
WAS not specifically mentioned nor was the time thereot. It is notcworthy that in thc cause 
shown by the workman , he did not make any point about the vagueness of the charge 
nor did he complain that the charge was not urderstandable to him . lle said , in the cause 
shown by him (part of Ext. 1 ) ; 
* ! * ** I had not stolen away 70 hosc pipe from underground which was provided 

for water spraying purpose . I am one of water spraying muzdoor of this 
conipany and working under your kind control. It is impossible for inc as I 
am a noimal worker of the stolen thing. I was on duty in East side urder 
the Mining sirdar Shri Ramujar on IIIrd relay . But hose pipe was stolen 
from West side section . How I can go there and steal it. All charges were 

brought illegally against me. * * * ** 
In paragraph 5 of the written statement filed by thc union , it was , however , stated : 
“ The offence of theſt has not been defined in the standing order and in ordinary 

dictionary it incans the act of thieving any article from any given place but 
thc material particulars giving the name of place wherefrom the alleged 
thieving was committed and the time, etc . were not given in the Charge 

Shect." 
I am not prepared to uphold the first argument of Mr. Pandey . In the chargesbret itself 
the date of the offence is given as “ 7th September, 1967 third shift" . This appears from 
the printed heading of the chargesheet. There is no dispute that the workman was on 
undergroun<l worker , working as a sand dusting and watering mazdoor in No . 7 and 8 Pits 
of Jamuria Collicry The hosc pipe was stated to have been stolen from underground 
meaning thereby the underground where thc workman worked . This, in niy opinion , is sull 
cient particularisation of the misconduct. At any rate , the workman did not make any 
complaint about the language of the charge at the time when he showed cause and I cannot 
make much of the objection introduced , by way of refinement, in thc writton statement 
filed by the union . 

,8 . Mr. Pandey next argued that either the enquiry was not at all held or was not held in 
the prescncc of the workman concerned . This objection does not appear to have been 
specifically taken in the willen statement filed by the union . All that was stated in para 
graph 6 of the written statement wall : 

the Management being detoimined to get rid of the workinan on the plea of 
dismissal arranged a mochery of domestic enquiry and proceeding in a most 

periunctory manner dismissed the workman from his service. 
Then again , it appears from the police ( Ext. 2 ) that the enquiry into the charges was 
fixed for hearing on October 25, 1967 at the office of the Welfare Officer. It appears 
further from the proceedings of the enquiry and from the evidence of the enquiring oflcer , 
A . K . Tarafdar , ihat one Harmonia , a Banksman , wus examined on that day and the 
enquiry was thereafter adjourned to October 27, 1967. This appears from Notice , lxt. 5 . 
It is the cvidence of Turafdar that the workman concerned did not accept this notice. There 
upon , the enquiry was further adjourned to November 8 , 1967. This appears from Notice , 
Ext. 7 . The first notice of enquiry ( Ext. 2 ) , according to the evidence of Tarafdar , was 
served upon the workman concerned under cover of the company s Peon Book — the entry 
in the Peon Book , bearing the thumb impression of the workman concerned , is Ext, 3 . 
The notice of the adjourned date of hearing. Ext . 5 , according to the evidence of Tarafdar 
was also sent to the workman concerned under cover of the Peon Book and the particular 
entry in the Peon Book is marked Ext. 4 . It is , however, admitted that tho workman did 
not accept the notice. Since the workman did not turn up on the adjourned date of hear 
iny, there was a third notice ( Ext. 7 ) sent to the workman hy registered post fixing the 
date of hearing to November 8 , 1967 . This notice is said to have been refused by the 
workman . The registered cover bearing the postal endorsement of refusal is marked Ext. 6 . 
Although the workman had refused to accept the notice sent by registered post , he turned 
up on November 8 , 1967 and asked for a copy of the notice. The second copy of the 
notice was given to him and his receipt was taken in the Peon Book — the entry in the 
Peon Book being marked Ext. 8 . According to the evidence of Tarafdar, at the second 
sitting of the enquiry there were four witnesses examined , namely , Sudam Mondal, Pump 
Mazdoor, K . B . Chohda , under -Manager , Sri Anil Kumar Singh, Overman and Sri Gopal 
Chakrabarty , clerk Tarafdar said in his evidence that workman was present at the 
enquiry but declined to cross - examine the witnesses and also declined to 
put his thumb impression on deposition sheets jn token of his presence . It 
is noteworthy, however, that on the first day of the enquiry , he is said 
to have put his thumb impression on the deposition sheet of Harmonia in token of 
his presence and also is said to have cross- examined the witness. In further proof of the 
fact that the workman concerned had refused to put his thumb impression on the deposi 
tion sheets, at the second sitting of the enquiry , the enquiring oficer took evidence of 
Amiya Chatterjee , a Provident Fund Clerk and Haradhan Paitundi, a Leave Clerk . Tarafdar 


5256 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR TIKA-25, 1890 [PART II 
SSSSS = 

= = = = 
also stated in his cvidence that he took the precaution of explaining the statements recorded 
by him in English to the witnesses and the workman concerned in Hindi. 


9 . As against all these , there is the cvidence of the workman himsolf. In his examina 
tion -in -chief he said : 
" I do not remember thc date but I went to attend one enquiry but I was sent back 

by Tarafdar Sahib . He told me that no coquiry would be held on that day . 
Thereafter, I was never called to attend any enquiry . No statement by myself 
was recorded at the enquiry . It is untrue that evidence of Harmonia was 
taken in my presence . The evidence of Sudama was also not taken in my 
presence . Nor did Anil Kr. Singh depose in my presence . I did not put 
iny thumb impression on the deposition shcet of Harmonia in token of iny 

prescnce ." 
In his cross - examination , he further stated : 
" It is not true that there were full enquiries held in my prosence . No enquiries were 

ever held in my presence. It is untrue that I cross - examined witness Harmonia 
01 that I put my thumb impression on the deposition sheet in token of my 

presence ." 
This workmail , however , admits that he received the notice of the first sitting of enquiry 
sent under cover of entry in thọ Peon Book . He also admits that he received two letters 
in respect of enquiry, teroby nieaning that he received the notice of the first utting and 
also copy of the notice of the second sitting, which was delivered to him under cover of 
the entry , Lxt. 8 , in the Pcon Book . 

9 . In this stato of evidence , I am unable to uphold the argument of Mr. Pandey that 
there was no enquiry beld . The workman was served with a chargesheet. This is adniticd . 
He was served with a notico of the first sitting of the enquiry . This is also admitted . The 
procecdings show that he was present at the first sitting and cross-examined witness 
Harmonia , It is also in evidence that he received the notice of second sitting of the cnquiry 
of November 8 , 1967. I am not prepared to believe that after having received the notice , 
he avoided the enquiry or that he went to the enquiry and he was turned back by the 
enquiring officer . He admits in his cvidence that he has no comity with Taraidar Suhib . 
If that is so , there is no reason to suppose that Tarafdar would stoop to the meanness of 
sending him back on false assurance and hold the enquiry in his absence . Of tho two 
witnesses , examined , namely , the workman and Tarafdar , the latter appeared to no to bo 
the tnore truthful witness and his evidence is also born out by the records filed belore me. 
The suggestion that these records werc subscquently fabricated , does not appeal to me. 


10 . Now , if the workman had been charged with a misconduct and if there was an 
enquiry held into the misconduct witb opportunity to the workman to come and defend 
himself and iſ considering tho evidence, the enquiring officer found him guilty , I am not 
prepared to interfere with tho findings of the domestic enquiry , unless it appears that the 
findings were either perverse or based on no evidenco . In my reading the facing about 
theft is based on the cvidence of witnesses examined at tho domestic enquiry . 


11. It was lastly argued before me by Mr. Pandey that tho workman had expressly 
desired before the enquiring ollicer to examine the Mining sirdar of his area in tbo inine 
during the çnquiry , but this opportunity was not given to the workman . This plea was 
taken in paragraph 8 of the written statement. The workman was confronted by the 
tribunal with the paragraph of the written statement and he gave the following answer : 
" It is not true that I wanted to examine the Mining sirdar of my area in the mino 

during the relevant shift as my witness, before the enquiring officer. It is 
also untrue that such a prayer was made but no such opportunity was given 

to me. " 
In the face of the evidence by the workman himself, there is little in the plea taken in 
paragraph 8 of the written statement . 

12 . In the view expressed by me, I find that the management of 7 & 8 Pits Jamurja 
Colliery was justified in dismissing from service Shri Janardan , Stono Dusting and Watering 
Mazdoor , with effect from the 22nd December, 1967. As such , he is not entitled to any 
relief before this tribunal , 
I make an award accordingly . 

( Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer. 
Dated , October 26 , 1968. 

[No. 6 /24 /68 /LRII.) 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5257 

= = 
S .O . 4057. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ), the Central Governnicnt hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bon -Jamihary Colliery owned by Messrs Bon -Jamihary Anthracite Coal 
Company, Post Office Salanpur , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 29th October, 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA , 

REFERENCE No. 4 OF 1968. 
PARTIES : 

Employers in iclation to the Bon -Jamihary Colliery, 


AND 


Their workmen , 


PRESENT; 

Shri B . N . Banerjee , Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers. - Shri K . N . Dutt, Goneral Monager. 
On behalf of Workmen . - Shri Provat Goswami, Org. Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor 

Union (INTUC ). 
STA IL : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines. 
AWARD 


By Order No . 6 / 85 /67- LRII , dated January 6 , 1968, tho Central Government referred 
the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Bon - Jamihary Colliery 
owned by Messrs Boa Jamihary Anthracito Coal Company and their workmen , to this 
tribunal, for adjudication : 


" Whether the transfer of S / Shri Rambarui Choubey and Bhagwan Singh Chaprasis 

froni Bon - Jamihary Collicry to Brindabanpur Khas Colliery which also 
belongs to the samo management with effect from the 10th October , 1967, 
was justified ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ?" 


2 . At the hearing to -day , the employers were represented by their Gencral Manager , 
K . N . Dutt and the workmen by Provat Goswami, Organising Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor 
Union . Both the parties filed a petition of compromiso , stating that the dispute stood 
settled in terms of the compromise petition . They prayed for an award in terms of sottle 
ment. In my opinion , the agreemont is lawful and fully and completely scttles the indus 
trial dispute between the parties . 


3. I, therefore , make an award in terms of the petition of settlement, J.et the petition 
containing the terms form part of this award . 


Dated October 26 , 1968. 


(Sd .) B . N , BANERJEE, 

Presiding Officer. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 


IN THE MATTER OF REFERENCE No. 4 OP 1968 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Bon - Jemihary Colliery of M / s. Bon - Jemihary Anthraite 
Coal Co., P . O . Salanpur, Dist . Burdwan . 

AND 
Their workmen , represented by Colliery Mazdoor Union , 27, G . T. Road , Bastin 

Bazar, Asansol, Burdwan . 
The humble petition of both the parties above-nomed most respectfully showeth : 
1. That the above caso is peading before this hon ble tribunal for adjudication. 


5258 THE GAZLITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PAK II- - 

— 
2 . That the parties have come to an amicable settlement on the following terms; 
( a ) It is admitted by the parties that all the two workmen whose casc are before 

ibis hon ble Tribuwal by the order of reference have already been reinstated 
in their former jobs and services in Bon Jomihar Colliery with continuity of 

servicc . 
( b ) It is admitted by the management that the order of transfer dated 10t11 October, 

1967, will be treated us withdrawn . 
(c ) It is admitted that the workmen concerned has been paid their wages and other 

emoluments for the period of their non -enployment. 


3 . The partids in the circumstances , buy that the hon ble thribunal may be graciously 
plcascıl to adınit this settlement and give its award in terms thereof, 

Anl for this , the parties shall as in duty bound ever pray, 
Sd . /- PROVAT GOSWAMI. 

Org . Secretary , 
Colliery Mazdoor Union 

(for Workmen ) . 
Dated October 26 , 1968 . 

( Sd .) K . N . DUCIA , 

General Manager, 
Bon -Jemihary Colliery , 
[ No . 6 / 85 /67- LRII. ] 


S .O . 1053. - In puistance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government bereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov 
ernment Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the Kendwadıh Colliery of Messrs Ilurriladih Coal Company 
Limited, Post Oflice Bhag. , District Dhanbad and their workmcn , which was recived by the 
Central Governincnt on the 28th October , 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCF No. 21 op 1968 
PRLSENT ; 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha , Presiding Officer . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Kenduadih Colliery 

Vs. 
Their workmen . 
APPFARANCES : 

For Employers : Shri S . S . Kapoor, Advocate. 
For Workmen : Shri P . B . Choudhary , Executive Member of the Colliery Staff 

Association . 
INDUSTRY : Coal. 

State : Bibar. 
Dhanbad , the 15th October 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Governmçnt, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in rclation to the Kenduadib Colliery , Post Office Bhaga , District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , by its Order No. 2 / 81 /66 - LRII dated the 16th May , 1966 referred to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matter specified in 
the Schedule annexed thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
"Whether the cancellation of the apprenticeship of Shri Biswasjoti Biswas, Survey 

Apprentice , with effect from thç 1st July , 1965 by the management of 
Kenduadih Colliery of M / s. Hurriladih Coal Co. Ltd ., was an act of victimisa 
tion ? If so , to what relief is the workman untitled ?" 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5259 

= = = = = 

The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as reſer 
ence No. 91 of 1966 on its file . While it was rending before the Central Governinent 
Jndustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, the proceeding was transferred to the Central Governinent 
Industrial Tribunal No . 2 , Dhanbad by the Central Government s Order No . 8 / 25 /67 - LRII 
dated the 8th May , 1967 where it was numbered as reference No. 146 of 1967. By its 
subsequent order No. 8 /71/ 68- LRII dated the 17th August, 1968 , the dispute was tranferred 
to this Tribunal and it has been renumbered a3 reference No. 21 of 1968. 

A written statement was lileil by the Gendral Secretary , Colliery Staff Association on 
the 15th June, 1968 . The case made out in the written statement is that Shri B . J. Biswas, 
the concerned workinan was appointed as & Survey Apprentice with elect from the 22nd 
Septembr , 1961 on a consoliduct monthly salary of Rs. 60 -. After short perid of his 
appointment he was promolcd to the post of Assistant Surveyor and his pay Wus eulianced 
to Rs. 85 / - per momh. The minagement concelled his apprenticeship from the 1st of 
July , 1965. Accorling to the workman on the day cancellation of apprenticeshur, Shri 
B . J . Biswas the concerned workm :111 was not an apprentice but Assis _ Surveyor and that 
tremination of his service was on account of victimisation , 

There was a serious accident at the Colliery resulting in the loss of six lives . The case 
of the workmen is thut this accident wis due to the high -handedness of the manager Shri 
H , M . A . Malik , "ilc concerned workman Shri B . J. Biswas cleposed against the manage 
mcat in that ca90 of ſatul accident är ! it was on this account that the manageinent victimised 
him by terminating his service . 

The minagement filed written statenient on the 10th of June, 1968 . Their contention 
is that Shri B . J. Biswas the concerned workinan was appointed as a Survey Apprentice 
on a consoliclatod allowance of Rs. 60 / - per month with cflect from the 22nd September , 
1961 and this appointment was purely temporary and terminable on a week s notice and 
that thc concerned workman hud agreed to these terms and confirmed the side. According 
to the management the woikm in concerned was making nu progress and accordingly his 
Apprenticeship was cancelled with clect from the 1st July , 1965 by giving him one week s 
Tiotice by leitor dated the 26th June, 1965 and that the action of the management was 
bonafied and was not result of victimisation . 

Four witnesses were eximined on behalf of the workmen and only one witness was 
cxamined on behalf of the management. Ex, W1 10 W16 were marked on behall of the 
workmen and Ex. M1 and Ex. M2 were marked on behalf of the management. 

The first contention on behalf of the workmen is that on the date of his termination 
of servicc Shri B . J. Biswas the concerned workmun was not an apprentice but an Assistant 
Surveyor, 

Shri Bhabani Ranjan Sarkar ( W . W . 2 ) has stated that at first Shri B . J. Biswas the 
concerned workman was appointed as Surveyor Apprentice on a consolidated salary of 
Rs. 60 / - and that after a year his salary was raised to Rs. 85 / - and his designation was 
chudged to Assistant Surveyor. But in cross-examination hc stated that no letter was issued 
to Shri B . J. Biswas confirming him as Assistant Surveyor by the management. The con 
cerned workman Shri B . J . Biswas has also admitted in his evidencc that he did not receive 
any letter from the management appointing him as Assistant Surveyor qualificd or un 
qualified , 

According to the standing order an apprentice is a learner who is paid allowance during 
the period of his training. Ex. ML is a letter of appointment of the concerned workman . 
As per the letter of appointment Shri B . J. Biswas was appointed as a Survey Apprentice 
on a consolidated salary of Rs. 60 / - and it is further mentioned therein that the appoint 
mçnt was purcly temporary and was terminable on one wech s notice . The terms of 
appointment were confirmed by the workman concerned . The temporary workman does 
not acquire the character of a perinanent workman only because he gets some increment 
of pay during the tenure of his service or he is placed on some permanent work like the 
work of Assistant Surveyor. 

It is well settled principle of law that the award must be conſined strictly to the terms 
of reference and must never extend beyond these terms. In the instant case according to 
the order of reſercnce the point for determination is the cancellation of the apprenticeship 
of Shri B . J. Biswas Survey Apprentice. The concerned workman Shri B . J . Biswas bas 
been shown thercin designated as Survey Apprentice and the inatter for adjudication is 
whether the cancellation of his survey - apprenticeship was an act of victimisation . 

This Tribunal is bound to confine its adjudication only to those points which are referred 
to for adjudication and matters instantly thereto . The designation of the concerned work 
man has been given as Survey Apprentice in the reference itself and the only question 
referred to for adjudication is whether the cancellation of survey apprenticeship of Shri 
B . J. Biswas was an act of victimisation . Therefore according to the terms of reference 


5260 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 "Part II - 

B -- - - = 

2 
the question to treat the concerned workman as Assistant Surveyor, docs not arise . In this 
connection the management has cited before me the ruling reported in 1968 Lab . I. C . 82 
( Vol. I, C . N . 28 ) . 


The main point for consideration , therefore , is whether the cancellation of the ap 
prenticeship of the concerned workman Shri B . J. Biswas with offect from the 1st July , 
1965 by the management was an act of victimisation . 


The case made out in written statement by the workmen is that the concerned workınan 
deposed against the management in the fatal accident case and that it was on this account 
that he has been victimised, To support this contention tho workmen produced four wit 
nesses. Shri R , B . Choudhary, WW1 stated in bis evidence that in connection with the 
fatal accident case there had been & spot enquiry conducted by the Regional Inspector of 
Mines on 23rd April, 1965 and that in that casc Shri B J. Biswas along with other two 
persons appeared as witness against the management. In cross -cxamination he admitted 
that the management did not tcrminate the service of thç other two persons . 


Bhawani Ranjan Sarkar, Surveyor (WW2) also admitted in the cross - examination that 
no other employee was discharged or dismissed from service on account of the fact that 
he had deposed against the management in the said fotal accident casc . It was also admitted 
that a criminal case was filed against the management in connection with the said fatal accl 
dent and that Shri B . J. Biswas was not a witness there in the Court of Law . 


During cvidencc it was further alleged that Shri T . K Das was assaulted on 23rd 
June, 1965 by Md. Mazid and Mangal Singh the body- guards of tho manager . A depart 
mental enquiry was held in that connection and Shri B . J. Biswas the concerned workman 
deposed in that case too . This plea was however , not taken in the written statement filed 
by the workmen , It is also to be noted that there was a criminal case in connection with 
the said assault and that the concerned workman was not cited as a witness in the Court 
of Law . 


Sinco Shri B . J. Biswas was not cited as a witness in the Court of Law cither in the 
case connected with the said Fatal Accident or that of the assault on Shri T . K . Das , it 
leads to prove that his evidences before the enquiry conducted by the Regional Inspector 
of Mines in the Fatal Accident Case and before the Departmental Enquiry in the case of 
the said assault were of little importance . Moreover, the workmen s witnesses have also 
admitted that the management did not take any action against any other person who had 
deposed against the management in the Fatal Accident Case . 


Mercly saying that the order of termination of service was passed by the management 
in order to victimise the workman , is not meaningful. The facts and circumstances leading 
to the act of victimisation must clearly bę proved by adducing satisfactory evidence . A 
finding on victimisation can be made only when there is cogent evidenco to justify the same. 
It cannot be made either casually or light-heartedly . The workmen have hereby failed to 
prove the charge of victimisation . 


I therefore , hold that the cancellation of the apprenticeship of Shri B . J . Bisw , s , Survey 
apprentice with effect from the 1st July , 1965, by the management of Kenduadih Colliery 
was not an act of victimisation and that the workman is not entitled to any relief. 


This is my award . It may be submitted to the Contral Government under Section 15 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 . 


( Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINHA, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ), Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 81 / 66 -LRIL.] 


$ . 0 . 4059 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of thọ Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Iodustrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Damua Colliery of Kanhan Valley Coal Company 
(Private ) Limited , Post Office Damlia , District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 26th October , 1968 , 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963 /KARTIKA 25, 1899 


5261 


- 


- - 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURI , 

JABALPUR . 

Dated October 15 , 1968 
PRESUNT: 
Shri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Officer. 

CASE Ref. No . CGIT / LC (R ) (34) op 1968 
PARTIES; 
Employers in relation to Damua Colliery, Dolly Dale, Byramji Town, Nagpur. 

Vs 
Their workmen , represented through the General Secretary , Satpur Koyala Khadan 
Mazdoor Congress, P . O . Junnardeo, Distt. Chhindwara ( M . P .) . 


APPEARANCES ; 
For employers. _ Shri M . M . Giradkar, Agent, Damua Colliery , Dolly Dale, Byramji 

Town , Nagpur. 
For workmen — Shri Ramnarayan Singh , Geacral Secretary , Satpura Koyala Khadan 

Mazdoor Congress , P . O . Juppardco , Distt. Chhindwara ( M . P .) . 


INDUSTRY: Coal Minc 


DISTRICT : Chindwara (M . P .) 


AWARD 


By notification No . 5 / 22 /68- LRII dated 9th May , 1968 , the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment, Government of India referred the following matter of dispute , as stated in 
thọ schedule to the order of reference , under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) I. D . Act to this Tribunal 
for adjudication . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Damua Colliery of Kanhan Valley Coal 

Company ( Privatc ) Limited , Post Office Damua , in laying off the workmen 
vit. Sarvashri Arjun , Kamal, Malikram and Rajaram with effect from the 
31st November , 1967 and subsequently retrenching them with effect from 

the 23rd February, 1968, was justified ? If not, to what relief are these 

workmcn entitled ? 
It may be mentioned at the outset that the date 31st November, 1967 mentioned in the 
issue under reference is obviously an accidental slip for 30th November ay November is 
not of 31st days . This technical error, however, does not allect the validity of the referenco . 
The actual " lay olf " as admitted between the partics commenced from 30th November , 1967 . 

The four concerned workmen , Sarvashri Arjun , Kamal, Malikram and Rajaran were 
admittedly picceralcd coal cutters for a number of years. When the new manager Shri 
D . L . Khanzode ( IEx. W . 1 ) took over in August, 67, as admitted by him , he abolished 
the category of coal-cutters on economic grounds. He gave alternative time rated jobs 
under category V to these and other coal- cutters . They continued to work till 15th Novem 
ber , 1967. On this date , these four and eight others applied to the manager that they should 
be given back the old job of piece -rated coal cutting from 20th November , 1967, failing 
which the consequences would be bad ( Ex . E . 3 ) . There was also some incident at tho 
manager s bungalow on this date and in respect of which the manager sent a report to 
Superintendent of Police ( Ex, E . 5 ) . The director also addressed a communication to the 
police dated 23rd November , 1967 ( Ex . W . 4 ) intimating apprchension of breach of peace . 
There was, however, no outward evenl. It is an admitted fact that on 15th November, 
1967 there was break -down of haulage engine in Minc No. 9 for which by notice ( Ex . E . 1 ) 
the workers of this mine were laid off. The haulage was, however , repaired on 17th 
November , 1967 as mentioned in notice ( Ex . E . 2 ) . Presumably because of this short 
lay off for 3 days , these four concorned workmen and 8 others moved the application 
to the manager so as to be given their old job As piece rated coal-cutters . According 
to management, these workers continued to work half -heartedly on alternative jobs till 
30th November, 1967 ond refused to work thercafter . The management had no option , 
and were compelled to lay them off from that date as there was no category of piece 
Tated coal cutters left with them . As they had become surplus, the management ultimately 
rotrenched them after due compliance with provisions of section 25F I. D . Act. On behalf 
of the workmen it was , however , contended by the Union that in a public meeting 
hçld on 28th November , 1967 , these four workmen gave an application to the President of 


doine wese in noticed work 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


5.262 THE GAZETTE OL: INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIK125, 1890 [PAJT ]! - 

- = - - 
the Union (Ex . W . 3 ) prossing their demand for their original job . This provoked the 
management in laying them off soon after with clicct from 30th November , 1967. The 
workinen hud never refused to accept and to work on alternative jobs and wbich were 
never Ollered to them from an l after 30th November, 1967. A number of junior workers 
were retained and these four werc picked up for vindictivc rcasons becausc of their applica 
lion dated 28th December, 1967. The union took up the case in conciliation and during 
the conciliation , the management mulude gave a notice of retrenchmçnt dated 2311 Janu 
ary , 1968 and then retrenched the workers . The laying off and the retrenchment were 
both neither justilled nos legal. 


The managemçnt objected to the competency of the Union , Satpura Koval ! Khadan 
Mazdoor Congress , to sponsor the dispute , und to represent the workers. It was contend 
ed that the Union was not recognized and had little membership of worker s of this collery . 
Another Union , Rashtriya Koyalat Khadan Muzdoor Sangh , is recognized and is a represen 
talive union of the colliery. It Wall wlso alleged that the four concerned workmen were 
not members of the union at the relevant time. Shri Ramnaruyan Singh ( W . W .2 ) Secretary 
of the Union camc in cvidence and stated that this union Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor 
Congress is a union of th : industıy and it started functioning in this collicry in July , 1967 
when a branch was opened . A number of workers were made members of the union during 
the months of August and September, 1967. He filed true cxtract of membership rcgis 
ter (Ex, W . 9 ) which would show that most of the workers were enlisted and made 
niçmbers in the months of August and September, 1967. IIc also proved the counterloil 
reccipts of all the four conucrncd workmen and which are lEx . I. 1 ( A ) to W . 1 ( D ) ] . 
Maliksam one of the concerned workers hus corroboratch the position . There is, therefore , 
no merit in the objection that the four concerned workmen were not members of the union 
and thc ubion will not competent to sponsor the dispute or to represent the workers , 

Another objection taken in thc written statenent of the cmployers was that 
out of the four , two of the conccıned workmen juinely , Arjun und Kamal, accepted 
their full and final payment of all their claims on 5th March , 1968 bcfoic the date of 
referccnce and, therefore , there is no industrial disputc leſt with regard to these two work 
men and no reference could have been made for at cast these two workmen . In proof 
of this, the cmployers Oled payıncni shcets ( Ex. E .6 and F .7 ) which would show that 
Rs. 800 and odd had been paid each to Kamal and Arjun . There is , however , no endorse 
ment or any writing to indicate that the payment was acccpted in full and finel Kettle 
ment of their claims. Even the manager , Shri Khanzodo ( Ex. W . 1 ) did not specificully 
statc anything on the subject . It 18 a well-known principle that rulc of cstoppel and 
acquiescence has no application in industrial adjudication ( vule Griest, Keen , Williams 
Pvt. Ltd , Vs. P . J. Sterling A . I. R . 1959 S . C . 1279 ) . This objection is , therefore , without 
any substanco . 


Another techpical objection which was pleaded in the written statement of the employers 
is a plea to the effect that since the workmen themselves rciused to accept alternative jobs , 
they should be deemed to have abandoned their duty and as such there was no case of lay 
off and retrenchment. This on the face of it is untcnable . The employers themselves rightly 
or wrongly decided to lay off and can not be permitted now to repudiate it . They cannot 
be permitted to blow hot and cold in the same breath 30 uş to contend that in fact there 
had been no lay off or retrenchment. It is an admitteed position that the employers laid 
off these workers and subsequently retrenched them . It is on these admitted fucts that 
the reference was made so as to determine the justifiability of the action of the management. 

Coming to tho merits of the controversy, the action of the management was clearly 
malafide and also illegal. The manager , Shri Khanzode ( Ex, W . 1 ) admitted that he abolish 
ed the category of piece rated coal cutters on economic grounds with giving any notice 
under section 9A I. D . Act. The workers affected by this action , accorduug to him , were 
given alternative jobs and there is no dispute that they continued to work on such alterna 
tive jobs till 15th November, 1967 when there was break -down of the haulage . I here was 
nothing wrong on the part of the workers to approach the management that they should be 
given their original job. The application ( Ex, E . 3 ) , no doubt, is rather strongly worded 
and can be taken as an ultimatum to be effective from 20th November, 1967 but the fact 
remains that the workers remained on work till 30th November, 1967 when they were 
laid off . The management , it appears, got unnecessary scared and took the letter literally 
as a threat so as to pose a law and order question necessitating an approach to the police , 
There has been no violence or any untoward incident on the part of these four concerned 
workmen . The motive to lay them off evidently was prompted because these four work 
ers had applicd to the Union on 28th November , 1967 by means of application (Ex. W . 3 ) 
so as to press for their old job . It is significant to note that these four only were coin 
pelled to remain on lay off and subscqucntly retrenched while the other cight who had 
joined in the application dated 15th November, 1967 were not so laid off nor retrenchcd . 


Sec . 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5.263 


The incvitable conclusion is that these four were picked up because of their application 
dated 28th November, 1967 to the Union . There is specilic statepient of Malikram 
( W . W . ) that the management guve world to the remaining cight but not 10 him and the 
romaining concerned wurbinen . This was her are the management wanted a written uider 
taking fiom them not to remain members of this Union and to which they were not 
agrccable There 19 no rebutul to this cvidcnce , He hul further states that he never 
Jefused to accept alternative job and the ac ertion in notices dalled 30th November , 1967 
[ Ex. W . 4 ( A ) 10 W . 4 ( D ) ] in this respect wis lalse . On behalf of the four concerned 
workers, alter the receipt of lay oll nice dated 30th Noveinlics, 1967, the Union 
atonice addressed a communication to ti muinagement Jated 2nd Decenber , 1967 ( Ex . 
W . 10 ) refuting the allegation that these workeis hand refused to accept altcroative jobs 
anil wlliming that they were ayrccabic for any lyne ol work which may be oflered . 
It is significant to note that no ierly was sent to this communicat.01 . Similarly for 
anottier communication duted 2310 Decembei, 1967 , no reply was sent . The explanation 
of the Manager that yuce the Union 7 ur recognized , therefore , no reply was sent to 
notice Jated 23rd December , 1967 19 on the ince of it un ceptable . If the assertion was 
wrong, the manageiient would have contiverted it in the ordinary course , The fact that 
it came llrough an ecognize 1 Union $ 1091) llave made little difference. There was , 
therefore , nojlistification to pick up these four concerned workmen for lay out froin 
30th November, 1967 and the allegation that they had not refused to the lis alternative 
job is ä luked ground . 


Apart from this , the legal aspect of the matter is still moie damaging to employers and 
is incongruous. “ Lay off" has been clelined in section 2 (hkk ) I. D . Act (omitting 
oxplazation and provisos ) as follows: 
" Luy off" (with its giammatical variations and cognate expressions ) incats the 

failure , refusal or inability of an enployer on account of shortage of coal . 
power or raw materials oi the accumulation of stocks or the breakdown of 
machinery or for any other reason to give employment to a workman whose 
name is borne on the muster rolls of his industrial cstablishment and who 
has not been retrenched . 


As held by Supreme Court in Wolkmer of Dewan 1 ed Estates V s. Management of 
Dewan Tea Estates, 1964 - I. I.L .J . p . 358 , the words " for any other reason " must be con 
strued ejusdem generis with the words that prescle them and the circumstances which 
would justify a " lay off" must be integrally connected with production . The failure , refusal 
or inability should be on the part of the employer and a subjectivo act on his part. It has 
nothing to do with the failure , refusal or inability of an employee to accept the work . 
Paradoxically the management s contention is the other way , namely that although they 
were prepared to provide work and had been so giving from August till 30th November, 
1967 , yet the lay off had to be resorted because the workmen concerncul themselves 
retused to work on alternative cmployment. It follows, therefore , that the refusal as 
alleged was on the part of employee and not the employer. This does not come within 
tho definition of " lay off ” . For refusal to accept alternative employment, if that was a 
fact , the employers could have resorted to any other action including dismissal but to 
conceive a lay off was wholly misguided . It was not a refusal envisaged by section 25€ 
of the Act. There was no question of lay off in such a case . 


Rule 75A of the Industrial Dispute Central Rules enjoins upon every employer to give 
notice of lay off in Form 0 - 1 and another notice in Form 0 - 2 when lay off is lifted . Such 
& notice has bcen made compulsory under sub - rulc ( 2 ) irrespective of the fact whether 
the workmen who had been laid off are or are not cntitled to compensation . No such 
notico was given by the management. The notices, ( Ex. W . 4 / A , B & C ) which were 
given , are not in prescribed form but are in general form stating that as there was no 
work in Minę No. 9 for piece - ruted coal cutters, therefore , they were laid off. The lay 
off was also invalid for not having been brought about after proper notice as required by 
rule 75A I. D . Act. For all thesc reasons, the lay off which was a misnonier , was wholly 
uojustified and invalid . 


Coming to the retrenchment aspect of the matter , it appears that while conciliation 
proceedings were going on and the management had taken time, they suddenly resorted 
to retrenchment of these workmen . Notice of retrenchment was given on 22nd January , 
1968 which have been filed as Ex . W . 18 to 21, by the workers themselves. The reason 
for retrenchment is stated to be that thc company hack no work to give for piece - rated 
coal cutting and as there is no scope for giving any other kind of work , consequently 
notices were being given for retrenchment under section 25F , I. D . Act to be effective 
from 23rd February 1968. For retrenchment, therefore , it was not assertçu that the 
workers had refused to accept alternative employment. When there was no valid " lay 
off " as contemplated by section 25C , there is no question to attract the proviso to the 


5264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II — 


section so as to entitle the employers for 4 set off against compensation payable on re 
trenchment. For a valid retrenchment, certain mandatory formalities of law are necessary 
which , as required under section 25F are ( a ) notice in prescribed form according to Rule 
76 of the I. D) , Central Rulcs (b ) compensation on prescribed rate and ( c ) notice in 
prescribed form P to appropriate Government. None of these appear to have been com 
plied with . There is no indication that any prescribed noticc was sent to Government 
which is mandatory . Further, the rule of " last come first go " as recognised by Section 
25G of the I. D . Act has to be statutorily observed by the employers in a bonafide manner . 
This appears to have been flouted with impunity . The manager , Shri Khanzodo, did not 
state anything on the subject. On the contrary , the workers from the very beginning had 
bcen complaining that these workmen who were subsequently retrenched were not the 
junior most. During the perioul of lay off , it appears that the management put up a 
seniority list of coal cutters on the notice board , dated 18th December, 1967 ( Ex. W . 5 ) . 
Both the workmen and union objected to the correctness of this list by communications 
dated 23rd December , 1967 ( Ex . W . 12 and W . 13 ) . No reply was given to this objection . 
On bebalf of the workmen , a list ( Ex . W . 6 ) was filed and was proved by Malikram . 
According to him , there were as many as 70 coal cutters and all of them whose names 
have becn shown in the last column of Ex . W . 6 arc junior in length of service and have 
not beçn retrenched . There is no specific denial to this assertion . It must therefore be 
held that there had been a wanton disregard of this requirement . Retrenchment, therefore , 
was completely unjustified and illegal. 


A highly tochnical objection pleaded by the employers in para 14 of the written state 
ment may also be noticed . It was alleged that provision of Section 25F would not be 
attracted inasmuch as from August, 1967, the workmen hud accepted alternative jobs. 
Thcir length of service, therefore , was only for a period of a little more than 3 months, 
there having been a new employment . This is wholly a flimsy ground and does not call 
for scrious attention . The employment in Category V according to the Manager himself 
was continued throughout even after the workers ceased to be piece rated coal cutters . 
There was therefore no new employnicnt. 
Decision 

The result is that the issue linder reference must be answered in negative . The action 
of the management in " laying off" the four concerned workmen Arjun, Kamal, Malikram 
and Rajaram with effect from 301h November, 1967 and their subsequent retrenchment 
from 23rd February , 1968 was wholly unjustified . They are entitled to be reinstated with 
back wages and continuity of service . Whatever compensation they or any of them may 
have received towards lay off or retrenchment shall, however, be accounted for in com 
putation of back wages . The Union will be entitled to costs from the employers which 
are assessed at Rs. 100 / 

$ d / - G . C , AGARWALA , 

Presicling Offlccr. 

15 - 10 -68, 

[No. 5 / 22 /68-LRII. ] 
S . O . 4060 , - -In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputos Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No, 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the 
omployers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanec Collieries 
Limited , Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad and their workinen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 29th October, 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD . 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Vonkata Rao, Presiding Officer , 

REFERENCE No. 128 OF 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 . 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankee Collicries 
Ltd ., Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad, 

AND 
Thoir workmen . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5265 


APPEARANCES : 

For the employers , - Shri K , C . Nandkeolyar, Dy. Chief Personnel Officer. 
For the workmen .-- Shri B . Lall , Advocate . 


STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 18th October, 1968 / 26th Asvina , 1890 Saka . 

AWARD 
The Central Goverament, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankance Collieries 
Ltd , Post office Bhowra , District Dhanbad and their workmen , by its order No. 2 /62 -65 
LRII , dated 18th March , 1966 referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbud under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudiccation 
the dispute in respect of the matters specificd in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule 
is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of the following Coal Cutting Machine Mazdoor by the 

management of the Bhowra Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankance Collieries 
Ltd ., with effect from the 9th February , 1965 was justified ? If not , to what 

relief are these workmen cntitled ? 
1 . Shri Surendra Majhi. 
2 . Shri Lakhan Mahato . 
3. Shri Bacheha Singh . 
4 . Shri Ramayao Mahato . 
5. Shri Sheo Nandan Mahato . 

6 . Shri Mathura Singh . 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 64 of 1966 on its file . Workmen filed their statement of demands. While it was 
pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad the procceding was 
transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government by its order No . 8 / 25 /67-LRII, 
dated 8th May, 1967 . Consequently, the reference is rcnumbered on the ilc of this 
Tribunal as reference No. 128 of 1967. Employers filed their statement of demands. 

3. Parties filed a compromisc memo stating that the dispute involved in the reference 
has been settled to the completo satisfaction of the parties. The compromiso memo is 
duly verified . Having gone through the terms of compromise , I consider them as fair 
and reasonable and beneficial to the affected workmen. The compromiso is, therefore , 
accepted and the award is made in terms of the compromise . The compromise memo 
is annexed herewith and is made part of the award . The award is submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

(Sd.) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) Dhanbad , 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO , 2 ) DHANBAD . 

REFERENCE No. 128 / 67 

BETWEEN 
The Management of Bhowra Colliery of M / s. Bhowra Kankanec Colliories Ltd ., 
P . O . Bhowra , Distt. Dhanbad . 

AND 

Their workmen . 
Joint petition of compromise on behalf of the parties. 
The parties have compromised their dispute on the following terms mutually settled 
by them . 


5266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II 


- - - 


- - 


- 


1. That all the workmen are reinstated with effect from 9th February, 1965 with 
continuity of their service . 

2 . That the period of their idleness will be considered as leave without pay. 

3 . That out of six workmen five have already been allowed to do their work except 
Sheo Nandan Mahato and it is agreed between the parties that they would continue 10 
do their present work without any interference . 

4 . That Sheo Nandan Mahato would resume his duties any day but not later than a 
Dronth after the publication of thc Award . 

5 . That the compromise has been made voluntarily and in good faith . 

It is therefore prayed that the Tribunal may be pleased to pass the award accordingly. 
On behalf of the Worhmen . 

On behalf of the Employer. 
( 1) ( Sd .) BABAN LAL . 

( Sd . ) K , C , NANDKHOLYAR , 
( 2 ) Illegible. 

Dy. Chief Personnel Officer, 

M / S , K . C . Thapar Bros . ( P ) Ltd . 
Khan Mazdoor Congress 
Affiliated - 1. F . M . W . 
P . O . Bhowra (Dhanbad ) 

Dhanbad . 
Dated , the 29th August , 1968. 

[No, 2 /62 / 65 -LRII.] 
s . O , 4061, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 or 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute betwcen the employers in relation 
to the Loyabad Colliery of Messrs Burrakar Coal Company Limited [Messrs Bird and 
Company (Private ) Limited , Managing Agents ] and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 28th October, 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 72 OF 1968 


PRLSENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, Presiding Officer. 
PARTIFS : 
Employers in relation to the Loyabad Colliery of M / s. Burrakar Coal Co . Ltd . 

Versus 

Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES : 

For employers -- Sri A . M . Joshi, Personnel Officer . 
For workmen . - Sri Anant Sharma, Secretary , Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, P .O . 

Kusunda , Distt. Dhanbad . 
INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Bihar. 
Dhanbad, the 18th October, 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to the Loyabad Colliery of M / s . Buirahar Coal Co . Ltd . [Messrs 
Bird & Co . ( Private ) Limited , Managing Agents and their workmen by ils order 
No. 2 / 155 /66 - LRII, dated the 7th of January , 1967 referred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal , Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed 
thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Loyabad Colliery , Post Office Bansjora (Dhanbad ) of 

Messrs Burrakar Coal Company Limited , was justified in dismissing from 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5267 


- 


service Shri Rajendra Nath Upadhya , Cook in tho Bird s Centary Hospital of 
Loyabad Colliery with effect from the 9th June, 1966 ? If not, to what relief 

is the workman cntitled ? " 
Tlie Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 2 of 1967 on its file . While it was pending before the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceeding was transferred by the Central Government s 
Order No. 8 / 25 /68 -LRII, dated the 8th of May , 1967 to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal No. 2 , Dhanbad where it was numbered as reference No. 201 of 1967 . The 
Central Government hy its subsequent order No, 8 / 71 /68 -LRI , dated the 17th of August, 
1968 transferred the dispute to this tribunal where it has been renumbered as reference 
No. 72 of 1968. 


The parties negotiated the dispute for a mutual settlement and have settled it amicably . 
They have filed a compromisc petition at annexure " A " . According to the terms of com 
promise the concerned workman Sri Rajendra Nath Upadhya will be paid an ex - gratla 
amount of Rs. 1200 / - ( Rupees one thousand two hundred only ) in full and final setlternent 
of all his claims against the management. The terms may be considered satisfactory and 
is accepted . Accordingly an award is made in terms of joint petition of compromise 
annexure " A " which shall form part of the award . The award may be submitted to the 
Central Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , 

(Sd.) SACIIIDANAND SINHA , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

No . 3 Dhanbad. 


ANNEXURE " A " 


BEFORE THE HON BLE PRESIDING OFFICER 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM - LABOUR COURT 

NO . 3 DHANBAD 
REFERANCE No . 72 or 1968 . 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation 10 Loyabad Colliery of M /s . Burrakur Coal Co. Lid ., P . O . 
Bansjora , Ditt. Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the Bihar Koyla Mazloor Sabha, Chhatatand Bazar , 

P . O . Kusunda , Distt. Dhanbad , 


Joint Petition of Compromise . 
The partics above .named most respectfully beg to submit as under - - 
( 1 ) That the above matter was referred for adjudication vide Ministry of Labour, 

Employment & Rehabilitation (Deptt. of Labour & Employment) Notification 
No. 2 / 155 / 66 -LRII, Jated the 7th Janliary , 1967, publishcl in the Gazette 
of India , Part II, Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii ) dated the 21st January , 1967 as 

S . O . No. 257 at pages 144 - 145 . 
( 2 ) That the said matter is pending before this Hon ble Tribunal for adjudication . 
( 3 ) That the parties in the mcantime have mutually discussed the matter and have 
arrived at a settlement in terms stated hereunder ; 

Ternis of Settlement. 
(a ) That without prejudice to the respective contentions of the parties , it is agreed 

that the workman concerned in the disputc namely Shri Rajendranath 
Upadhya will be paid an er- gratia amount of Rs. 1200 / - ( Rupces one 
thousand two hundred only ) in full and final settlement of all his claims 

against the Management. 
(b ) That Shri Rajendranath Upadhya will have no claim for reinstatement or re 

cmployment. 
( c ) That the ex - gratia amount mentioned in Item ( a ) of this settlement will be 

paid to Shri Rajendranath Upadhya within 15 days from the date of this 

Settlement, 
( i ) That the parties will bear their respective costs of these proceedings, 


- - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


5268 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PANTI 

ROSS 
In the circumstances the parties herein concerned most respectfully beg to pray that 
this Ho nble Tribunal may graciously be pleased to accept this compromise and pass an . 
Award in terms thereof. 

And for this the parties as in duty bound shall cver pray . 
For workwen . 

For Employers. 
(Sd .) ANANT SHARMA, 

( Sd .) G . S. SURI, 
Secretary , 

Dy. Supdt. & Agent, 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha , 

Layabad Colliery of 
Chhatatand Bazar , 

M / s . Burrakur Co. Itd ., 
P . O . Kusunda, 

P . O . Bansjora . 
Distt. Dhanbad . 

Distt. Dhanbad . 
(Sd .) A . M . JOSHI, 

Personnel Officer. 
Dated , Dhanbad , the 17th October, 1968 . 

[No. 2 / 155 /66 -LRII.] 
S .O . 4062. - In pursuance of section 17 of tho Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the industrial 
Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to 
the Bhowsa Colliery , Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Govçrnment on the 26th October , 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer. 

REFERENCE No. 139 OF 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Scction 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Indusírial Disputes 
Act, 1947 . 
PARTIES: 
Employers in relation to the Bhowra Colliery , Post Office Bhowra District Dhanbad 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES: 
For the employers: Shri K , C . Nandkcolyar, Deputy Chief Personnel Officer. 
For the workmen ; Shri Ram Mitra, Secretary Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal 
Dhanbad 16th October 1968 

AWARD 


the Bhowra Colliery haobado nicethe industrial dispute hat 


The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute cxists between the 
employers in relation to the Bhowra colliery , Post Office Bhowra , District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 16 / 66 - LRII dated 22nd April , 1966 referred to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Indys 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in 
the schedulo annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted bolow : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Udairaj Pandey , Miner , by the management of the 

Bhowra colliery with cffect from the 29th April, 1963 was justified ? If not, 

to what relief is the workman entitled ?" 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No . 77 of 1966 on its file . Workmen filed their statement of demands. While 
it was pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceed 
ing was transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 29 /67 
LŘIT dated 8th May, 1967. Consequently , the reference is renumbered on the Ale of this 
Tribunal as reference No . 139 of 1967. Employers filed their statement of demands, 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5269 

- - - 
3 . Shri Udairaj Pandey ( hereinafter referred to as the affected workman ) was a miner 
in Bhowra colliery of the employers . Sometime in the last quarter of 1960 fire broke 
out in the underground of No. 10 incline area and as such the worknin living in the 
alloticd quarters and butments in No. 10 incline area had to be removed to other safer 
place . They were asked to go to available quarters in No. 19 incline arca . The affected 
workmau and one Shri Sitaram Yadev occupied quartcı No. 3 in Block No . 1 of number 
19 incline are. . These facts are not in dispute . The case of the workinen is that some time 
in 1965 the management tried to put in the quarter a third person , Shri Raghunath Shaw 
which the allected workman opposed . The management with a vicw to terrorisc and victi 
mise the affected workman issued a charge-sheet to him foi the alleged disoncuience of 
lawful and reasonable orders and disorderly behaviour . The affected workman submitted 
liis explanation denying the charge allegation . The management held a fake cnquiry and 
on the perverse findings of the Enquiring Officer dismissed him with effect from 29th April , 
1965 . The employers filed their statement of demands stating that the aflected workman 
and Sarvashri Sitarain Yadey and Raghunath Shaw werc ullotted jointly the quarter in 
question , that the three lived in the quarter for some tiine, that the affected workinan 
forcibly occupied the portion allotted to Shri Raghunath Shaw , that on his failure to obey 
instructions of the Labour Welfarc Officer and the high -handed manner by which he turned 
out Shri Raghuilath Sh 1 , the management issued the charge -sheet and caused a domestic 
C nquiry to he held in which the affected workman participated , that as a result of the proper 
domestic enquiry the Agent of the collitry passed the order dismissing the affected work 
man with effect from 291h April, 1965 and tbat the action taken by the management 
against the affected workman was just and bonafide . The workmen were represented by 
Shri Ram Mitra , Secretary , Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha and the cmployers by Shri K , C . 
Nandkcolyar , Deputy Chief Peisusinci Ollicer. By consent of the workmen Exts . M1 and 
M2 were marked for the employers . The affected workman examined himself as WW1 
and marked Exts. M3 to M7. The cmployers examined 3 witnesses and marked Exts. M8 
10 M11. 


4 . The charge -sheet issued against the affected workman is Ext, Mil. It is stated therein 
that the quarter was allotted jointly to the affected workman and two others , that the 
aftected workman forcibly occupied the rooms of Shri Raghunath Shaw , that the affected 
workman did not comply with the order of the Labour Welfare Officer and that, os such 
he was guilty of disorderly behavoui and wilful insubordination of thc lawful and reason 
able order of his superior. The cxplanation to the charge-shect submitted by the affected 
workman is Ext. M4. He had stated therein that he had permitted Shri Raghunath Shaw 
to live with him but it was no moro possible for him to allow Shri Raghunath Shaw to 
live in the quarter as his own family ( Janana ) had arrived . He denied that lic was guilty 
of the charges framed against him , Ext. M4 is a notice of the enquiry. MW1 conducted 
tho departmental enquiry in which, admittedly , the affected workman participated . The 
cnquiry proceedings are l- xt. M8, the enquiry report Ext. M9 and thc dismissal letter Ext. 
M10 , Statement of the witnesses recorded during the enquiry are Exts . M6 and M7. It 
is in the evidence of MW that he had read over and explained to the affected workman 
statements recorded by him and the affected workman affixed his signatures to the state 
ments . The dismissal order is passed by the Agent on the recommendation of the Manager . 
I do not find any flaw in tlic procedure adopted by Enquirying Officer in conducting the 
enquiry . But the only question lobo considered is whether on the fects admitted and 
proved the affected workman was guilty of misconduct in terms of order 27 of the Certified 
Standing Orders, Ext. M2. Though it is stated in the statement and chargesheet that the 
quarter in quçstion was allotted jointly to the affected workman and Sarvashri Sitaram 
Yadev and Raghunath Shaw , the evidence brought on record is contrary to it . MW2 was 
the Welfare Officer in 1965. Ho does not say anywhere that the quarter was allotted . 
What he says is that the affected workman and Sarvashri Sitaram Yadev and Raghunath 
Shaw were provided accommodation in the quarter, Shri Raghunath Shaw is examined as 
MW3. He says that he occupied the quarter first and lived in it alone for about 4 or 5 
years and then the affected workman joined him . He also says that when he went to live 
in the quarter it was lying vacant and he was first to occupy it, then Shri Sitaram Yadev 
occupied a portion and then the affected workman one more portion in the same quarter. 
From the statement of the employers and thc evidence of Raghunath Shaw , MW3 It 
cmerges that the quarter in question along with others in number 19 inclino were still 
nader construction and owing to the cmergency workmen living in quarters and hutments 
in number 10 incline area were allowed to go and occupy available incomplete quarters 
in number 19 incline area . The Welfare Officer , MW2 has conoceded that owing to the 
sudden development of the situation no authorisation letters were issued to the affected 
workman and others . The New Housing Schemç of coal mines is marked as Ext. M1. As 
per clause 10 of the Scheme in the matter of allotment of quarters the management of the 
collicry is governed by the Rules of Allotment and the Rules are appended to the Schome. 
As per Rules 4 , 5 and 6 tho allottee has to execute an agreement in the proscribed form , 
the allotment should be mado by the employers in the manner prescribed maintaining a 
register for the purpose and the allotment should be made in order of length of service of 
the workmen . Thus, it is manifest that the quarter in question was not allotted to the 


5270 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II— 

= - = 9 
affected workman or to either Shri Sitaram Yudev or Shri Raghunath Shaw and owing to 
fire in number 10 incline the workmen living in quarters and hụtments in number 10 inclinç 
area were asked to go and occupy available incompleto quarters in number 19 inclino area. 
It probablisс that the affected workman and Sarvashri Sitaram Yadev and Raghunath Shaw 
went and occupied quarter No. 3 in Block I in number 19 inclinc area, they lived together 
for somc time without any trouble and when the family ( Janana ) of the affected workman 
arrived the affected workman did not think it proper to allow Shri Raghunath Shaw to 
live in the samc quarter any more and thus, quarrel broke out. When the quarter in 
question was not properly allotted and a quarrel ensured among occupants thereof it was 
a private quarrel to be settled otherwise than by the intervention of the Labour Welfare 
Officer , MW2. The instructions of the Labour Welfare Officer , MW2 to the affected 
workman to allow Shri Raghunath Shaw to continue to occupy the quarter, was not con 
nected with his employment and as such non - compliance with it cannot be termed as 
insubordination or disobedience . Merely because a workman happens to live in the col 
liery area the Labour Welfare Officer cannot have right to order him about anythiog and 
everything and charge him for disobedience or insubordination when the order is not com 
plicd with . Under order 27 ( 1) of the Certified Standing Orders , Ext. M2 the allegod wilful 
insubordination or disobedience should be of a lawful or reasonable order . The order of 
the Welfare Officer to the affected workman in the instant case to allow Shri Raghunath 
Shaw to continue to live in the quarter is not in accordance with law or within the powers 
of a Labour Welfare Officer. There is absolutely no evidence about disorderly behaviour 
of the affected workman . Thus , I find that the Anding of the Enquiring Officer that the 
affected workman was guilty of misconduct is perverse and , consequently the dismissal of 
the affected workman cannot sustain . 


5 . I, therefore, find that the dismissal of the affected workman , Shri Udairaj Pandey , 
minor, by the management of Bhowra Colliery , with effect from the 29th April, 1965 was 
not justified and , consequently , the affected workman is entitled to his wages , emoluments 
and benefits with effect from the 29th April, 1965 to the date of his reinstatement as though 
he was continuously in service . The award is made accordingly and submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Yv 


( Sd. ) N . VENKATA Rio , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 2), Dhanbad. 

[ No . 2 / 16 / 66 -LRII. ) 


S . O . 4063. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal. Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute betwçen the employers 
in relation to the Bhulanbararée Colliery of Messrs Bhulanbararce Coal Company Limited , 
Post Office Pathcrdih , District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 29th October , 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 


PRESENT : 


Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer . 


REFERENCE No. 135 OF 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bhulanbararee colliery of Messrs Bhulanbararee Coal 
Company Limited , Post Office Patherdih , District Dhanbad . 

AND 
Their workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 

For the employers - Shri S . S , Mukherjee , Advocate . 
For the workmen - Shri Shankar Bosc, Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 


Sec . 3 ( ii )] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 5271 

E ST- FS = 

= 

= = = = 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 17th October, 1968 
25th Asvina , 1890 Saka . 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between 
the employers in relation to the Bhulanbaraice Colliciy of Messi s Bhulanbararee Coul 
Company Limited , Post olice Pathcrdih , District Dhanbad and their workmen , by its order 
No. 2 / 37 / 66 -I.RII dated 18th April , 1966 referied to the Central Government Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for 
adjudication the dispute in respect of the matter s specified in the schedule annexed thereto . 
The schedule is extracted below ; 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of the Bhulanbayaree Colliery of Messrs Bhulanbarare 

Coal Company Limited was justificd in stopping the following three work 
men from work with effect from the Sth January , 1966 ? If not, to what 

rclief are those workmen cntitled ? 
1. Shri Abbi Biswas, Pump Khalasi E , B . No. 15027 
2 . Shri Kefaith Mea , Pump Khalasi E . B . No. 15064 

3. Shri Sahur Mia , Pump Khalasi E .B . No. 15029 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 73 of 1966 on its file. While it was pending before the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceeding was transferred to this Tribunal, by the Cen 
tral Government by its order No. 8 / 25 /67 -LRII dated 8th May , 1967. Consequently the 
reference is renumbered on the file of this Tribunal as reference No. 135 of 1967 . 
Employers as well as the workmen filed tbeir statement of demands. 

3. Parties filed a compromise memo stating that the dispute involved in the 
reference has been settled to the complete satisfaction of the parties. The compromise 
memo is duly verified . Having gone through the terms of compromise , I consider them 
as fair and reasonable and beneficial to the affected workmen . The compromige is, there 
fore, accepted and the award is macle in terms of the compromise . The compromiso 
memo is annexed herewith and is made part of the award . The award is submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

Sd / - N . VENKATA Kao , 

Presiding Officer, 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) 

Dhanbad . 


BEFORE THE HON BI E PRESIDING OFFICER , 
CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No . 2 ) , 

DHANBAD 
In the inatter of 

REFERFNCE No. 135 of 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Bhulanbararee Colliery of M / s Bhulanbararee Coal Co . 

Ltd . 


AND 

Their Workmen . 
The humble Petition on behalf of the parties above -named . 
Most Respectfully Shewcth : 

( 1 ) That without prejudice to the respective contentions of both parties , the dispute of 
tho prescnt Reference has becn amicably settled between the said Parties on the following 
terms: 
( a ) That Shri Abhni Biswas had been alieady reinstated in service and hc is work 

ing in the Colliery . The Union , therefore , does not want to pursue his caso 
before this Hon ble Tribunal and the dispute regarding this workmon muy 
be treated as finally settled . 


5272 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARIKA 15, 1890 [Paki II. - 
= 
(b ) That S /Shri Kefaith Mca and Juliu Mea are not interested in thoic claim for 

reinstatement and do not want to serve the said Employers any further, 

Their claim for reinstatement is, therefore , dropped . 
( c ) That the Employers will pay a lunp sum of Rs. 1000 / - (Rupees One thousand ) 

only to cach of the above -named two workmen , namely , Sri Kefaith Mea 
and Sri Jahur Mca as an Ex- gratiu account in full und final settlement of all 
their claims and demands against the said Employers till the date of this 

settlement. 
( d ) That the above -mentioned Lr- gratia payınents of Rs. 1000 / - each to the two 

workmen will be made by the Enıployers by 27 / 9 / 68 . 
( e ) That the above terms of settlement finally resolved the dispute concerning the 

thrce worhinen mentioned in the Schedule to the terms of Reference . 
( f ) That the Employers will pay a sum of Rs. 100 / - ( Rupees One hundred ) only 

to the Union as tho cost of the present procecdings , 
It is, therefore , humbly prayed that the above settlement may kindly be recorded and 
an Award passed in terms thereof, 
For the workmen : 

For the Employers , 
( Sd .) SHANKER BOSE, 

(Sd .) J. N . P . Said , 
Secretary, 

Labour Adviser, 
Collicry Mazdoor Sangh . 

Bhulanbararee Coal Co. Ltd . 
(SJ.) ABUNI. Biswas , 

( Sd .) S . S . MUKILRJEE , 
Bulanbararec Colliery . 

Advocate , 
( SJ .) Kerati Mea , 
Bhulanburarce Colliery . 
Dated the 30th Septeinher, 1968 . 

[No. 2 / 37 /66-LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 6th November 1968 


5 , 0 . 4064 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ) , Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between 
the omployers in relation to tho Gaslitan Colliery , Post Office Sijua , District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 28th October , 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (No. 3 ) AT DHANBAD 

RECRENCC No. 56 OF 1968 . 
PRESUNT; 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, Presiding Officer. 
PARTIES: 

Employers in relation to the Gaslitan Collier: 


Vs. 


Their workineu . 
APPEARANCES : --- 

For Employers. - Sri S. S. Mukbcrjee, Advocatr . 

For worhnuun. - Sri Prasant Burman , Secretary Khan Mazdoor Congress. 
INDUSTRY : Coal. 

STATE : Bihar . 
Dhanbad , dated the 16th October, 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute oxists botween 
the employers in relation to the Gaslitan Colliery , P . Q . Sijua, District Dhanbad and 
their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 19 / 66 - LRII dated the 28th of October, 1966 referred 
to tho Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 


Suc. 3 (ii ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5273 


the Industrial Dispules Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matter 
specificd in the schedule annexed thereto . The Schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the stoppage of work of Shri Surajbali Jaiswara , miner of Gaslitan Colliery , 

by the inanagement with citect from the 18th November , 1965 was justified ? 

If not, 10 what relief is the workman cntitled ?" 
The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as refe 
rence No. 149 of 1966 on its file . While it was pending before the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceeding was transferred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal No. 2 . Dhanbad by the Central Government order No . 8 /25 /67 -LRI 
dated the 8th May , 1967 where it was numbered as reference No. 185 of 1967. By its 
subsequent order No . 8 / 71 /68-LRII dated the 17th of August, 1968 the reference was trans 
ferred to this Tribunal where it is ronumbered as reference No. 56 of 1968. 

On behalf of the workinen the written statement was filed on 3rd April, 1967 by 
Shri Gopal Chandra Munshi, Gcneral Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress. The casc 
made out in the written statement is that the concerned workman Sri Surajbali Jaiswara 
was stopped from cluty illegally and unjustificdly from 18th November , 1965. This was 
an act of victimisation 29 the concerned workman Sri Surajhali Jaiswara was an active 
member of the Khan Mazloor Congress and that his activities were not looked favourably 
by the management. The management also took the resignation letter from the concerned 
workman under duress and the date was wrongly mentioned in that resignation letter as 
17th November, 1965. 

The Fimplovers filed their written statement on 28th September , 1967. Their case 
is that Sri Surajbali Jaiswara wus working as a miner in the colliory and that he voluntarily 
submitted his resignation on 17th November, 1965. By letter dated 19th November , 1965 
Sri Surajbalı Jaiswara was informed that his resignation had been accepted and he was 
asked to collect all his legul ducs. Subsequently Sri Surajbali Jaiswara came to the oflice 
lo collect his dues und demanded bonus for quarter ending December , 1965 and leave 
wagcs for the year 1965. But his aforesaid demand was not admissible . Ho also 
demanded is provident fund nolint and it was pointed out to him by the managonicnt 
that for that purpose he had to file an application before the Coal Mines Provident 
Fund Cornmissioner, Therefore , according to the management Sri Surajbali Jaiswara 
was not stopped from the work with cflect from the 18th of November, 1965. 

It has further been contended that the management had no knowledge that Sri 
Surajbali Jaiswara was a member of the Khun Mazdoor Congress or of any union and 
that the act of the management was not on account of victimisation , 

It is further contended that the reference itself was invalid inasmuch as the Ministry 
after due consideration by their letter dated the 25th February, 1966 informed the parrics 
that the Government of India did not consider tho dispute fit for reference to an 
Industrial Tribunal for adjudication because the workman concerned had voluntarily 
submitted his resignation and the management was ready to pay his legal dues and that 
no additional materials after the above decision of the Government of India were placed 
before it to make the present reference . 

Only ono witness viz . Sri Birendra Bahadur Singh the Personnel Officer of the Gaslitan 
Colliery was examined on behalf of the management and two witnesses were cxamined 
on behalf of the workmen Ext. M . I to M . 3 were marked on behalf of the management. 

The case of the management is that the workman was not stopped from his work from 
18th November , 1965. On the other hand he voluntarily submitted his resignation letter 
on 17th November , 1965 which was accepted by the management. Ext, M . 2 is a letter 
of resignation . According to the workpicn the letter of resignation ( Ext. M . 2 ) was 
obtained under durcss, 

In this connection we have got the oral testimony of the concemned workman Sri 
Surajbali Jaiswara (WW . 1) who had stated in his evidence that the resignation letter 
Ext. M . 2 ) was taken under duress and that four persons caught hold of him and 
forcibly took his thumb impression on Ext. M . 2 . There is no other eye witness on this 
point. 

It is stated that the concerned workman Sri Surajbali Jaiswara told about the occurrence 
to Sri Gopalchandra Munshi (WW . 2 ) while the dispute was pending before the Assistant 
Labour Commissioner . There is no evidence that he informed about this occurrence 
in writing hefore any other authority or even told about the incident immediately after 
the occurrence . In this evidcace the concerned workman has stated that his thumb 
impression was taken in prescnce of Sri B . B . Singh , the Personnel Officer of the 


5274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR JIKA 25 , 1890 PART II - 


management. Si B B , Singh has been examined on behalf of the management and inc 
has denied the fact that the thumb impression of the concerned workman was taken on 
the resignation letter under durcss in his presence . 

Therefore , on this point we have got only the solitary statement of the concerned 
workınan himself. There is no other witness to corroborate this fact. In this view of 
evidence I am not prepared to believe that the resignation letter (Ext. M . 2 ) was obtained 
under duress . 

It is stated on behalf of the workmen that since Sri Surajbali Jaiswara was an active 
menber of Khan Mazdoor Congress and his activity was not looked with favour by the 
management and it was on this account that he was victimised . But this fact in itself 
is not sufficient to prove the charge of victimisation . 

The management has also challenged the validity of the reference . In this connection 
they have filed Ext. M . I which is a letter dated the 25th of February , 1968 by the 
Ministry to the Manager of the Gaslitan Colliery in which it has been stated that the 
Goverpoont of India does not consider the dispute fit for reference to an Industrial 
Tribunal for adjudication because the workman concerned has voluntarily submitted his 
resignation and the manageinent was ready to pay his legal dues. 

On this ground it is contended that the reference is invalid . The contention of the 
management is that when the Government once declares that an Industrial Dispute does 
not cxist iu respect of certain demands and after having once recorded such a finding and 
after communicating the same to the parties concerned the Govergment becomes functus 
officio qua those demands. 

In this connection the management has cited the case law reported in 31 Factories Journal 
Reports , 1966 -67 , page 266 [Gandhara Transport Co . ( P ) Ltd . Vs. State of Punjab and 
others ] where it lias been observed as follows : 
" It is settled law that once the appropriate Governmçnt has exercised its powers 

under section 10 ( 1 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and made a reference 
of any industrial dispute it becomes functus officio and has no jurisdiction to 
subsequently amend , cancel or supersede the reference . In some cases it has 
even been held that the scope of a pending reference cannot be extended or 
cnlarged by the appropriate Government by an Amending notification . Do 
the sainc principles apply to u case where Government once declares that 
an industrial dispute does not cxist in respect of certain demands and does 
the Governinent become functus officio qua thosc demanda after having once 
recordse such a finding and after communicating the same to the partics 
concerned ? In the nature of things this question does not appear to admit 
of an inflexible answer which would be correct for all possible circumstances." . 


It was urged on behalf of the workmen that that the making of reference under section 
10)( 1 )( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, is an administrative act and that the Governmcnt 
could always review its previous decision and make a reference provided it acts bonafide 
and within a reasonable timc. There is no statutory prohibition against such a l evicw . 

This casc is concluded on facts and we may not enter here on an academic discussion 
on this technical point of law . 

In view of the evidence I hold that the workmen failed to prove the charge of victini 
sation and that Sri Surajbali Jaiswara was not stopped from the work with effect from 
the 18th November, 1965 , by the management , and that he is not entitled to any relief, 

This is iny award . It imay be subinitted to the Central Government under section 15 
of the Industrial Dispules Act, 1947. 

(Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINHA , 

Presidiny Ollicer, 
Central Govt. Industrial-Cum - Labour Court No. 3 , Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 19 /66 -LRU . ] 


9 . 0 , 4065, - lo pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
19.17 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of un application under section 
33A of the said Act, from Shri Shyama Pada Gupta , Laboratory Assistant, Sanctoria 
Hoyvítal of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited , Past Office Dishergarh , District Burd 
wan (West Bengal) which was received by the Central Govorament on the 25 th October, 
1968 . 


Sac . 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5275 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No . D OF 1968 
(Under Section 33A of I. D . Act) 


PARTIES : 

Shri Shyama Pada Gupta, Laboratory Assistant, 
Sanctoria Hospital of M / s. Bengal Coal Co. Ltd . Burdwan - Applicant. 


N 


The Management of Sanctoria Hospital of M /s. Bengal Coal Co. - Opp . Party . 

LTD ., P .O . DISHERGARH , BURDWAN 
PRESENT 
Shri B . N . Bancrjee, 

Presiding Officer. 
Appearanced : 
On behalf of Applicanin - Shri J. K . Gupta, Secrotary , Sanctoria Hospital Nursing Staff 

& Employees Union . 
On behalf of Opposite Party - Shri B . P. Kabir , Security Officer. 
STATE : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
This is an application by a workman, under Section 33A of the ladustrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, complaining against his transfer, pending an industrial dispute before this 
tribunal, without obtaining approval from this tribunal. Reference that was pending be 
fore this tribunal, at the time when this application was made, has now been disposed 
of. It was submitted on bebalf of the applicant that attempts have been made to raise 
an industrial dispute over the transfer of the applicant. In view of that, this application 
was not pressed for hearing . 

2. I, thereforc , dismiss this application but I make it clear that dismissal of this 
application will not, in any way, prejudice the workman from raising an industrial dis 
pute in the matter of his transfer , if that can be raised under the law . 

This may be treated as my awa 
Dated, 
October 19 , 1968 . 

( Sd .) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Oncer. 

(No. 6 / 56 / 68 -LRI . ] 
8 .0 . 4066 . — In pusuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), tho Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal. Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Ballarpur Colliery of Mosors Ballarpur Collierles Com 
pany Limited , Post Office Ballarpur, District Chanda (Maharashtra ) and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October, 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR . 
Dated September 5, 1968 


PRESENT: 
Shri G . C . Agarwaa . Presiding Oncer. 

Prosiding Omeer 
( 1 ) Case No. CGIT /LC ( R ) (31) /68 (WORKMAN CONCERNED , SITARAM ) . 
( 2 ) Case No. COIT /LC ( R ) ( 32 ) /68 (WORKMAN CONCERNED , LAXMAN BIKRU ). 

( 3 ) CASE No . CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 33 ) / 68 (WORKMAN CONCERNED BABURAO TUKARAM ) . 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of Ballarpur Colllery of Ballarpur Colliery 

Company Ilmited , Post Office Ballarpur, District Chanda (Maharastra State ), 


5276 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II – 

- - = = - - - -- - - - - -- - - - = - -- = - = 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


Vs. 


Their Workmcn represented through the President, B . Pradesh Minc Workors 

UDH, Ballarbw A1. . ) . 
APPEARANCES : 
For employers 
S / Sri S . V . Kanade, Personnel Officer and 
M . Kailash Kumar , Officer . 

For employers - S / Sri S , V . Kanado, Personnel Officer and M . Kailash Kumar , Officer , 
for workmen - Sri R K Haldulkar , President, Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers 

Union , Ballarpur ( M . S. ) . 
I& 42 : 987 : Coal Mine. 

DISTRICT : Chanda ( M .S.) . 

AWARD 
These are three cases between the same parties , the cmployers being the management 
of M / s . Ballarpur Colliery Company Limited which has hcad olice at Nagpur and 
the workman concerned in each case is represented by the Bombay Pradesh Mino Workers 
Union . The subject matter of dispute is identical, namely whether the so called resigna 
tion letters purported to have been signed by the workers concerned dated 3rd February , 
1968 were genuino resignations or had been fraudulently obtained by the nianagement. 
In case No. 31 /68, the workman concerned is Sitaram , Haulage Mazdoor and case was 
referred to this Tribunal by Notification No. 3 / 6068 -LRII dated 19th April, 1968 , 
The dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of reference was " Whether the 
management of Ballarpur Colliery , Post Office Ballarpur, District Chanda (Madhya 
Pradosh ) has fraudulently obtained the thumb impression of Shri Sitaram son of Shiva, 
Haulaye Mazdoor, on the letter of resignation ? If so , to what relief is tho workman 
entitled ? " In Case No . 32 / 68, the workman concerned is Laxman Bikru, which was 
referred to this Tribunal by Notification No. 3 / 5 /68 -LRII dated 23rd April, 1968 . The 
dispute though identical was differently worded as under : 
" Whcther Shri Lazman Bikru , Sand Packing Fitter in Ballarpur Colliery , Ballarpur 

resigned from his job voluntarily or whether his resignation was obtained 
fraudulently by the management? In the latter casc to what relief is he 

entitled ? 
It may be mentioned tha Laxman Bikru bas since then died after the reference but 
before the hearing was concluded and the Union which was representing him did not 
proceed further with the cost In case No . 33 /68 , the workman concerned is Baburao 
Tukaramı, Haulage Mazdoor , which was referred to this Tribunal by Notification No . 
3 / 7 /68 -LRII dated 18th April , 1968 with the terms of reference as “ Wbether the inanage 
ment of Ballarpur Colliery , Post Office Ballarpur , District Chanda (Madhya Pradesh ) 
has obtained resignation from Shri Baburao Tukaran Wankhade, Haulage Mazdoor 
fraudulently ? If so , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

2 . The facts of the case are that Sitaram Shiva workman concemned in case No. 
31 /63, was examined by the Medical Officer of the Colliery hospital on 12th August , 
1967 and as his vision was found defective he was advised to consult a specialist. On 
the strength of this , the management informed the worker to consult specialist and then 
report for work if found fit. The management contended that on 3rd February , 1968 he 
tendered a voluntarily resignation letter , copy of which is Ex . E / C , and the manage 
ment accepted the same by means of letter, copy Ex. E / 4 . In the case of Laxman 
Bikru since dead , it was similarly alleged that he was As a result of medical examination 
conducted by the Colliery Doctor on 5th March , 1967 found to be unfit and was advisod 
to consult specialist by the management. He similarly submitted resignation on 3rd 
February , 1968. In the case of Baburao Tukaram , workman in caso No. 33 /68, tho 
allegation is that he was examined by the Collicry Doctor on 23rd November , 1967 and 
was found to be suffering from general debility . Consequently , he was advised by the 
management to undergo necessary treatment and then report for work . As in the cane 
of other two , he also submitted his resignation on 3rd February , 1968 which was similarly 
accepted on the same date , 

3 . The workers on the other hand contended that all this was a device to get rid of 
them thereby indulging in unfair labour practice . They consulted specialist and obtained 
medical certificate of their fitness, there having been no defect with them . Sitaram 
Shiva alleged that he sent the certificate and application on 8th January, 1968 about his 
fitness which was acknowledged by the Manager on 9th January , 1968 hut he sent no 
reply . He consequently camc on 3rd February , 1968 for work . The Manager was not 


Sec . 3 ( 1 ) ] THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KAR FIKA 35 , 1890 5277 
- 

- - - - - - - - - 
availablt but his Secretary , Sri Rangnathan , obtained his thumb mark on false representa 
tion that an application was necessary before resumption of duty . He, thereforc , gave 
thumb mark . The dcfcnce of Baburao Tukaram , workman concerned in case No. 33 /68, 
is also similar that Sri kangnatoan obtained his signature by false representation on 
3rd February , 1968. They were astonished to get the letters that their resigaations had 
been accepted which they had not tendered at any time. It is needless to stato the 
Case of Laxman Bikru though his defenco was also identical. 

4 . Before taking up the controversy on merits certain pielinunary objections raised on 
bchalf of the management may first be disposed of. Firstly it is contended that ihe 
dispute in each case semained an individual dispute and is not covered by exception now 
endodied by Sec . 2 - A I. D . Act. The non - employment of these workers on the ground of 
An assumed csignation is evidently termination of service and clearly falls under Sec . 
2 - 0 of the I. D . Act . The disputes shall, therefore, be deemed to be industrial disputes . 

5 . The next objection taken is that the description of the employer has been wrongly 
given . In the reference order , the management has been described 25 M / s. Ballarpur 
Colliery Company Limited, P . O . Ballarpur, District Chanda (Madhya Pradesh ) and the 
order of reference had been forbinded to the Director of the Company at Nagpur . 10 
was contended that M / s . Bullarpur Colliery Company is not in limited company and there 
is no Director, Further Chanda is not situated in Madhya Pradesh but in Maharashtra 
Sute . All these are trival points of misdescription which do not affect the validity of 
the reference . Another similar flinsy objection taken was that a copy of the order of 
reference does not seem to have been sent to workman concerned . This is wrong as 
a fuct as the order of reference was sent to all tho workers and who did make an ap 
pearance before this tribunal. These preliminary objections, therefore , were vholly 
frivolous. 

6 . Coming to the merits ol the case , the circumstances fue so compelling 11.11 they 
must lead to tho acceptance of the version as stated by 1bc workmen . Lçaving aside 
the case of Laxman Bikru who is dead , the other two concerned workmen , Sitaram 
Shiva and Bablirao Tulurum , camc in cvidence and examined themselves . Accordug to 
Sitaram Shiva , he obtained the certificate of Dr. Sardeshpande (Ex , W / 2 ). He went 
with this certificate to the office for work but Sri Rangnathan told him that the Mana 
get would not scc hini . Conscqucntly , hc sent the certificate along with an application 
by post on 8th January , 1965 , truc copy of which is Ex. W / 4 . He has siled the acknow 
ledgement card (Fx , W / 3 ) and true copy of the certificate of the doctor. The Manager , 
Sri M . K . Tha (IV . 3 ) admitted his signature on A / C but simply denied to have know 
ledge about the fact whicthcr any application , copy of which is Ex. W / 4 , was received 
by hun . He admitted that he sent no reply . Obviously such an application was je 
ccived by the management and which confirms the fact that worker carne with the 
medical certificate of fitness for work but was not allowed to be interviewed . The manage 
inent did not take any action on this application . Baburao Tukaram , tho other worker, 
also produced a medical certificate of the sumo ductor, Sri Y , H , Sardeshpande (Ex 
W / 2 ) dated 30th Deceniber , 1967 in which is stated that Babuiao rukaram was 
physically fit to perform duties in the collicry . According to him as also Sitarom Shiva , 
they both came on 3rd February , 1968 so as to take wage for 26th January , 1968 
which was a paid holidny. It was for this reason that they both happened to be there 
on the shinc duto when Sii Kangnnthan obtained their signanire on the pretext thut appli 
cations would be necessary before they could be allowed to resume work . Believing him , 
these persons gave their thumb marks . There was no witness by the name of Chitale , 
a Peon in the 100m of Sri Rangnathan who after obtaining their thumb marky gave an 
other paper which they thought to be permission to resume duty . Outside the office they 
got the papers read by the Compounder of the Dispensary who told them about the 
contents of the letter , naincly that their resignations had been accepted . It was then 
that they came to know of the fraud . Sri Rangoathan no doubt has denied this but 
there are strong indications to support the workmen s case that a fraud was practised on 
them . It is significant to find that all the three letters of resignation dated 3rd February , 
1968 are in the same writing and bear tho thumb marks in the same ink . Sri M . K . Rang 
nathan ( E . W . 2 ) stated that he was requested by these three workers to write resignation 
letters and therefore he did it . They themselves brought the Pcon , Sri G . P . Chitale 
( E . W . 1 ) as a witness and that is how the peon s signature appeared on the resignation 
letter . It is strange to find that the reason for resignation in these resignation letters 
is one and the same, namoly that they were not feeling well. Sri Rangnathan did not 
care to enquire and probe further into the extraordinary conduct on the part of the 
workers why they were resigning . That he was not stating the truth is evident by the 
fart that he could not state whether all three workers came to him together or ane by 
one and not even the fact whether they caine to him on the same dates or on different 
dates. He admitted that hic did not take the workers to the Manager for which he 


5278 


THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Paxil 


could offer no explanation. The Peon , G . B . Chitalo (E . W . 1 ) stated that he signed 
as a witness because he was asked by somebody to sign . Ho contradicted Sri Rang 
nuchun by stating that all the three did not come together but came at different timos . 
With what yap and in what order , he did not remember. He did not corroborate Sri 
Raognathan by stating that he had been called by thọ workers to go and attest their 
signatures on rosignation letters. Tho evidence of the Manager , Sri M . K . Jha , is 
rather extraordinary . Ho recorded tho note that resignations be forthwith accepted with 
out verifying whether they wore genuine resigaations. He found the resignations on the 
table and he recorded the pote . For not calling the workers to enquire and verity the 
fuct be stated that the season had already been mentioned in the letter resignations . The 
only roason stated in the letters which was common in all the threc , was that thoy wero 
tendering resignation because of indisposition. The last witness of the management was 
Sri V . N . Niodiny ( E . W . 4 ) who proved payment to Laxman Bikru on 7th September , 
1967. We are not concerned now with the case of Laxman Bikru since he is dead . 
There is absolutely no explanation why workers will resort to this extraordinary con 
duct against their own detrunent by tendering resignation letters. This is against the 
natural course of human conduct. Having rendered service for such a length of time 
and not having reached the superannuation age, just because tho colliery dispensary 
doctor had found sonne defoct, they would not have casily agreed in tendering resignations 
unless they had been thorough cripples or there were some other extraordinary reasons 
for their so doing. Evidently they were not physically disabled and they disputed the 
opinion of the Colliery Doctor about their physical disability by obtaining certificate of 
an Eye Specialist, Sn all probability they must have come with a view to secure em 
ployment with these certificates. There cannot be any reason for them to have resigned 
even if they did not possess the certificate of fitness . Witnesses may lie but the circum 
gtances will not. There are obvious circunstances in this case which lend support of the 
version of workers and despite the evidence of the Manager , his P . A . and the Peon 
which will have to bo rejected as wholly untrust-worthy, I must hold that these poor 
workers had been victims of fraud and they had not resigned. It may 17 noted that 
during the conciliation proceedings, as the conciliation failure report would show , the 
månayemont took no rart in the conciliation which is also indicative of lack of bonafides 
on their part. The management had clearly been guilty of linfair labour practice by 
committing deception and fraud on workers 


Decision 

The result is that so far as case No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 32 ) /68 of Laxman Bikru is con 
cerned no adjudication is mado as the workman concerned has died and the refernco 
would thereforc lapso. In the case of Sitaram Shiva Case No . CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 31 ) /68 ] 
and aburao Tukarman Case No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 33 ) /68 ] it must be held that the thumb 
imprcusion of Sitaram Shiva was fraudulently obtained on the so called letter of resigna 
tion dated 3rd February , 1968 and so was the case with Baburao Tukaram . They both 
are entitled to be reinstated withi back wages. It is, therefore , directed that they shall 
be reinstated and shall be paid back wages which shall however he payable with cffcct 
from 3rd February , 1968. Each of them will further be entitled to Rs. 100 as costs of 
the proceedings from the management. 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Oncer, 
The 2nd September, 1968. 

(No. 3 / 6 /68-L.RII .) 


S . O . 4067. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta . in tho industrial dispute between the conlovers in 
relation to the Bon - Jamihari Colliery, Post Office Salanpur, District Burdwan and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October, 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 

REFCRINCT No . 15 OF 1968 
PARTIES ; 
Employers in relation to the Bon - Jamihari Colliery . 

AND 
Their workmen 
PRESENT ; 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer . 


Sec, 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 23 , 1890 


)THE GAZETI 


5279 


APPEARANCES: 

On behalf of Employers - Shri K . N . Dutt, General Manager, 
On hehalf of Workmen - Shri Provat Goswami, Org . Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor 

Union . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines , 

AWARD 
By Order No . 6 / 14 /68 -LRII, dated March 14 , 1968, the Central Government referred 
the following dispute between the employers in relation to Bon - Jamihari Colliery and their 
workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudication : 
" ( 1 ) Whether the retrenchment of Sarvashri Mathan Singh and Kailash Singh , 

Surface Pump Khalasis by the management of Bon - Jamihari Colliery, Post 
Office Salanpur, District Burdwan , with effect from the 26th December, 1967 

was justified ? 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled ?" 
2 . The cause of the workmen was espoused by a trade union known as Colliery Mazdoor 
Union , which filed a written statement. The management did not file any written state 
ment. At the hearing to - day, tho management was represented by its General Manager , 
K . N . Dutt and the trade union was represented by its organising Secretary , Provat Goswami. 
The parties to the dispute filed a joint petition of compromise , before this tribunal, sottling 
their disputes and prayed that an award may be made in terms of the petition of compro 
misc . In my opinion , the petition of compromise is lawful and fully and completely settles 
the industrial dispute betweon the parties . 

3 . I, therefore , make an award in terms of the compromise petition . Let the compro 
mise petition form part of this award . 
Dared , October 26 , 1968 . 

(Sd. ) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer. 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL, 

TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 
IN THE MATTER OF REFERENCE No. 15 OF 1968 


AND 


IN TIE MATTER ON AN INDUSTRIAJ , DISPUTE 


BerWEEN : 
The Employers in relation to the Bon -Jamihori Collicry , P .O . Salanpur, District 

Burdwan , 


AND 


Thçir workmen represented by Colliery Mazdoor Union ( INTUC ) , Head office 27, 
GT. Road , Bastin Bazar , Asansol, Unit Office - - Salanpur, Burdwan . 

Joint Petition of Compromise 
The parties aforesaid most respectfully beg to submit as under: 
1 . The issues referred to this Hon ble Tribunal for adjudication read as follows: 
" Whether the retrenchment of Sharyashri Mathan Singh and Kailash Singh , surface 

pump khalasis by the Management of Bon -Jamihary Colliery , P .O . Salanpur , 

Dist. Burdwan , with effect from 26th December, 1967, was justificd ? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled ?" 
2 . This Hon ble Tribunal has called upon the parties to submit their written statements 
which they may have done . 

3 . Both the partics to this reference, however , have rcached to an amicable sottlement 
by mutual negotiations on the following terins: 
(a ) The Management shall re- instate Shri Mathan Singh with effect from 15th 

November, 1968 in service , 
(b ) The Union does not press the case of Kailash Singh as he has accepted his all 

legal dues including retrenchment benefit . 


5280 


THEGAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II - - 


( c ) The Management shall inaintain continuity of service of the workman under 

reference and the period of unemployment would be treated as leave without 
wages from the date of retrenchment to the date of resumption of duty , but 
an engratia payment will be made to the workman and the quantùm of such 

payment will be decided by tho General Manager. 
( d ) The workmen or his Union acting on their belialf have no other claims against 

the Management arising out of the present reference . 
( c ) The parties will bear their own costs . 
4 . It is , therefore, most respectfully prayed that this Hon ble Tribunal may be graciously 
pleased to give its award in the aforesaid terms thereof. 
And, for this , the partics shall , as in duty bound , cver pray . 

( Sd .) K . N . Duti , General Manager, 
( SJ .) PROVAT GOSSAMI. 
Org. Secretary , Colliery 
Mazdoor Union , for Workmen . 

[No. 6 / 14 /68 -LRII . ] 
New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 
S . O . 4068 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ), Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Indian and Central Jharia Colliery, Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad 
and their workmen , which was reccived by the Central Government on the 29th October, 
1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer 

REFERFNCE No. 125 OF 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 (1 )(d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Indian and Central Jharia Colliery, Post Office , Jharia 

District Dhanbad 


AND 

Their workmen 
APPEARANCES 
For the employers: Shri P . C . Sharma, Superintendent of Collieries South Goluakdih 

Coal Co ., Jharla . 
For the workmen : Shri H . N . Singh , Vice President, Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat. 
STATE : Bihar 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 17th October 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between the 
employers in relation to the Indian and Central Jharia Colliery, Post Office Jharia , District 
Dhanbad and their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 149 /65-LRII dated 19th March , 1966 
referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters 
specified in the schedulo annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management was justificd in refusing work to the workers of the Indian 

and Central Jharia Colliery with effect from the 30th September 1965 ? If 

not, to what relief are they entitled ?" 
2 . The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No . 58 of 1966 on its file. Workinen filed their statement of demands. While 
it was pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , the proceeding 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] 7 HE GAZEITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR JIKA 25, 1890 


5281 


was transfcrred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government by its order No. 8 / 25 /67 -LRII 
dated 8th May , 1967 . Conscqucntly tho reference is renumbered on the file of this Tribunal 
as reference No . 125 of 1967. Employers filed their statement of demands. 


3. Parties filed a compromise memo stating that the dispute involved in the reference 
has been settled to the complete satisfaction of tho parties. The compromise memo is duly 
verified . Ilaving gone through the terms of compromise , I consider them as fair and 
reasonable and beneficial to the affcctod worknien . The compromise is , therefore , accopted 
and tho award is made in terms of the compromise. The compromise memo is annexed 
herewith and is made part of the award . The award is submitted under Section 15 of tbe 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Indusrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
Reference No. 125 of 1967 

BETWEEN 
Management of Iindian and Central Tharia Colliery, P. O . Jharia , District Dhanbad 

and others 


AND 
Their Workmen represonted by Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat P . O . Jhuria , Dist. Dhunbad 

Short Recital of the Case 
The management of Indian and Central Jharia Colliery , merged with South Golakdih 
Colliery of South Golakdıh Coul Coy stopped working in their Indian and Central Jharia 
Collieries with cffect from 30th September 1965. Tho Government of India by their 
Notification No . 2 / 149 /65 -LRII Jated 19th March 1966 referred the following dispute to 
the Central Government Judustrial Tribunal at Dhanbad for adjudiulion under sub scction 
( 1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 
Whether the management was justified in refusing work to the workers of the Indian 

and Cetral Jharia collicry with effect from 30th September 1965 : If not, to 

what relief are they entitled ? 
Pending adjudication of this dispute the management restarted working of the colliery 
with effect from 9th July 1966. The management ontered into an agreement with Koyla 
Mazdoor Panchayat on 25th Day oť June 1966 , which is enclosed here with and forms 
part of this agreement , marked as Annexure A . 

Now in the interest of Industrial peace and to resolve this dispute the representative of 
the management and workmen represented by Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat have entered into 
further agreement and have settled the dispute on the following terms. 

Terms of Settlement 
1. All the workmen numbering 267 who were on the rolls of the colliery at he 

time of the closure of Indian and Central Jharia Collieries will be paid 40 
per cent of thcir total wages including Bonus as if they wero all on duty for 

ihe period 30th September 1965 to 8th July 1966 . 
2 . The above payment shall be made to all workmen whether still under employ 

m ent or have not been allowed to join or have been retrenched . 
3 . Continuity and conditions of service of workmen employed in the collieries in 

accordance to the agrecmcnt, referred to in the preamble , which is Annexure 

A to this settlement shall not be adversely affected . 
7 . With this settlement pricvances of 267 worknicn for relief for the period 30th 

September 1965 to 8th July 1966 is resolved and settled . 
5. The above payment shall be made to the workmen within three months from the 

date of the Award by the Tribunal. 
6 . The parties shall bear their own costs to this dispute. 
( Sd .) P . C . SHARMA, 

(Sd .) H , N . SANGH , 
Superitendent of Collieries, South Golakdih Coal Coy 

Vice President, 

Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat Jharia , Dhanbad . 
Dated the 6th August, 1968 . 


5282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTKA 15, 1890 [PARTI 

- - - - 

= 
ANNEXURE A 
Sri A . N . Sharma, Colliery Superintendent for South Golakdih Colliery for the 
employers Jharia , Bibar. 

Sri R . S . Singh , Secretary , Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat for the workmen ; Jhania , Bihar . 

The Jodian and Central Jharia Colliery was merged with the South Golakdih Colliery 
of M / S South Golakdih Coal Coy. The Indian and Central Jharia colliery whose working 
Was suspended and from September , 20th 1965, has now resumed operation . It is, 
thereforo agreed by and between M / S South Golakdih coal company and the Koyla 
Mazdoor Panchayat representing the workmen of the company as under : 

Terms of Settlement 
1 . The company shall retain in einployment all the workmen of Indian and Central 

Tharia Colliery for employment is available in the company by the 9th 

July 1966 . 
2 . Those workmen whom the company is unable to retain in employment by the 

9th July 1966 shall be retrenched and they shall be paid retrenchment com 

pensation according to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 
3. The workmen who are retrenched as per clause 2 ahove shall be paid their 

retrenchment compensation as well as their earned dues accrued to them 
till the suspension of working of the Indian and Central Jharia Colliery on 

or before the 25th July , 1966 . 
4 . The workmen whom the company retains in employment by the 9th July , 1966 

shall be paid their earned dues accrued to them till the suspension of the 
working of the Indian and Central Jharia Colliery on or before the 30th 

September, 1966 . 
5 . The Company And the Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat shall Co -operate with one 

another in ensuring the smooth running of the company s colliery and shall 

resolye all disputes by recourse to negotiation , conciliation and arbitration . 
Sd ./ - R . S . SINGH , Secretary , 

Sd ./ - A . N . SHARMA, Superintendent, 
For Kayla Mazdoor Panchayat. 

For South Golakdih Coal Company . 
JHARIA , 
This 25th day of June, 1966 . 

INo. 2 / 149/65-LRII .] 


S .O . 4069. - ]n pursuance of scction 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal (No . 2 ). Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Dhansar Colliery , Post Office Dhansar , District Dhanbad and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 26th October , 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 


PRESENT; 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer 

REFERENCE No. 118 or 1967 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 
PARTIES: 
Employers in relation to the Dhansar Colliery, Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad 

AND 
Thir workmen 


APPEARANCES : 

For the employers : Shri S . $. Mukherjee, Advocate. 
For the workmen : Shri Prasanta Burman , Secretary, Khan Mozdoor Congress . 


SEC, 3 ( 11 ) | 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1963 /KAR TIKA 25, 1890 


5283 


= 


- 


STATE : Bibar , 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 16th October , 1968 

AWARD 
The Contral Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists between 
the cmployers in relation to the Dhangar Colliery , Post Office Dhansar, District Dhanbad 
and their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 141 /65- LRII dated 3rd March , 1966 , referred 
to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad under Section 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified 
in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of the Dhangar Colliery in transferring 

the services of the following seventeen miners from No. 4 incline to No. 2 
Pit with effect from the 7th June 1965 was with a view to victimise the 

workmen and , if so , to what relief are the workmon entitled ? 
1 . Swaminath Bhar. 
2 . Sabdeo Shabu. 
3 . Bibhikhan Shahu . 
4 . Jamir Khan . 
5 . Rajnath Shahu . 
6 . Janki Das . 
7 . Barhoo Das . 
8 . Ram Sabay Bhuiya . 
9 . Rama Shankar Dusadh . 
10 . Manki Das . 
11. Baradan B . P . 
12 . Hadish Mian . 
13 . Shoo Prasad Koiri. 
14 , Deoki Shao . 
15. Ram Prit Shao . 
16 . Chutar Mabato . 

17 . Fosan Mahato ." 
2. The Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad registered the reference as 
reference No. 41 of 1966 on its Ale . Employers as well as workmen Aled their statement 
of demands. While it was pending before the Central Government Industrial Tribunal , 
Dhanbad , thc procecding was transferred to this Tribunal, by the Central Government 
by its order No. 8 / 25 / 67- LRII dated 8th May , 1967. Consequently , thereforence is 
renumbered on the file of this Tribunal as reference No. 118 of 1967. 

3 It is not in dispute that all the 17 workmen referred to in the reference (hereinafter 
referred to as the affected workmen ) were pick miners and they were transferred from 
No. 4 incline to No. 2 Pit in Dhangar colliery by the employers with effect from 7th June, 
1965 . The case of tho workmen is that hey were originally members of the Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh and on their becoming members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh the 
Manager of the colliery called them to his office and asked them to cease to be members 
of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh , that on the refusal of the affected workmen to ccage to 
be members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh the Manager , in presence of two other 
threatened the affected workinen that he would dismiss , discharge , stop and harass them 
by transfering their services and that the affected workmen were transforred accordingly 
to No. 2 Pit According to the only such of the workmen were transferred to No. 2 
Pit who were members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . In the statement filed by them 
the workmen have stated that the case of the affected workman , Shri Janki Das (Sl. No. 6 
in the schedule of reference ) should be treated as dropped as no dispute exists any more as 
regards his transfer. The employers filed their statement taking several objections. At 
the outset the objection taken by them is that the Congress Mazdoor Sangh is ncither the 
representative nor recognised union of the colliery . On merita they stated that the transfer 
of the affected workmen was in the ordinary course of business on account of shrinkage 
of working faces in No. 4 inclinç and that there was no element of victimisation in the 
transfer. They plcaded that they had transferred 55 miners from No. 4 incline to 
No. 2 Pit as agreed to by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh on 1st June, 1965 and that the 
transfer was without affecting the wages and other conditions of service of the workmen 
in any way. The workmen werc represented by Shri Prasanta Burman , Secretary , Khan 
Mazdoor Congress and the employers by Shri S . S . Mukherjee , Executive Member of the 
Indian Colliery Owners Association . On mission by the workmen Exts . M1( a ) to 
MI( c ) and by consent of the employers Ext, W1 were marked . On behalf of the work 
men 3 witnesses were examined and Exts. W2 to W9 were marked. The employers 
examined a witness and marked Exts. M2 to M6 . 


5284 


THE GAZE STE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


PART II – 


- 


- 


- 


4 . The affected workmen being Pick mines in the Dhansar Colliery of the employers 
and their having been transferred from No. 4 incline to No. 2 Pit being admitted facts , 
the only point falling for consideration is whether the transfer was with a view to victimise 
the affected workmen . In terms of the reference the onus was lying on the workmen 
to prove by clinching evidence that the transfer of the affected workmen was with a 
view to victimisc them . In thc statement filed by them the workmen had stated that the 
affected workmen were originally members of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh and the 
employers were displcased and victimised them by transferring them to No . 2 Pit when 
they became members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . WW1 is the affected workman 
mentioned at Sl. No . 15 of tho schedule to the reference . He says that all tho affected 
workmen Weie nembers of the union of Shri Chaturanand Jha and before the disputed 
transfer they became membeis of the union of Shri S . K . Rai on 1st January , 1965. At 
a later saus he say that Shit Chatusunand Jba was representing the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sangh . Shri Prasanta Burman , Sccretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress, WW3 says that the 
affected workmen were members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh in 1965 and that in 
the year 196 : Shri SK, Rai was an office bearer of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . 
Therefore , il cmei ges that the union of Shri S . K . Rai of which all the 17 affected work 
mnen became members on 1st January, 1965 was the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . But tho 
fact that the affected workmen were previously members of the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh 
and from 11 January , 1965 became members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh is not by 
itself crough to establish the motive of victimisation of the affected workmen on the 
part of the cmployers . Workmen of a colliery aro at liberty to join any union of their 
choice whenever they choosc . In the statcinent the workmen had pleadçd that the 
Manager of the colliery called the workmen to his officc , asked them to ccase being 
members of tric Congres Mazloor Sungli and threateneri that he would dismino , dis 
charge , stop and harass them by transfering their services : WW1 deposed that the 
Manayo , ad told the workmen that they were transferied to No . 2 Pit because they had 
becom imbers of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . But, as admitted by him , no written 
complaint was submitted to any one in this regard . According to the statement of the 
wochsicii tlic threat was administered before the transfer order was passed but according 
to Wit ! 1! was after the transfer . The transfer notice is Ext, M2 and it is dated 1st 
June, 1905. According to WW1 a letter was sulinitted to the Manager on 8th Junc, 
1965 ind its office copy is Ext, W3 and Ext. W4 is the office copy of a letter addressed 
to the Secretary , Congress Mazdoor Sangh on 7th June, 1965 . In neither of them is 
there any reference to the threats alleged to have been administered by the Manager . 
In Ext. W3 it is stated that the workmen did not know why they were transferred . In 
Ext. W4 it is mentioned that the transfer was due to the workmen having become 
members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh . Obviously , it was { suspicion on the part of 
the workinen . The evidence of WW2 does not refer to the threat attributed to the 
Manager . The evidence of WW3 has no bearing on the point . It was stated in the 
statement of the workmen that the Manager had threatened the affected workmen in 
presence of two persons whose affidavits were enclosed with the statement. They were 
S / Shri Brijlal and Baraham Dey Saw . Neither of them is cxamined before the Tribunal 
nor were the employers given opportunity to cross examine them . Against the statement 
WW1 says that tho Manage administored the threat in presence of Shri Bhagavat 
Tripathi. Shri Bhagavat Tripathi also is not examined . WW1 also says that in addition 
to thc 17 aftccted workmen 16 other pick miners were also transferred from No. 4 incline 
to No. 2 Pit and that they were members of thc Khan Mazdoor Congress. He further says 
that 21 pick miners who weic transferred to No . 2 Pit were members of the Colliery 
Mazdoor Sangh of Shri Chaturanand Jha . It follows from the evidence of WW1 that 
not only pick miners who were members of the Congress Mazdoor Sangh but members 
of Khan Mazdoor Congroas and the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh were also transferred to 
No. 2 Pit along with the affected workmen . This evidence lispioves the allegation made 
in the statement of the workinen that the employers transferred only the members of 
the Congress Mazdoor Sangh which was a rival union to the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
On this evidence I do not find any substance that the transfer of the affected workmen 
was with a vicw to victimise them for their becoming members of the Congress Mazdoor 
Sangh . 

5 . In the matters of representation of the dispute before this Tribunal also the 
cmployers raised an objection . According to the order of reference the Congress Mazdoor 
Sangh was to repiesent the workmen. The failure report of the Assistant Labour Commis 
sioner (Central), Dhanbad - Ir dated 9th December, 1965 also shows that the Secretary, 
Congress Mazdoor Sangh had represented before him the case of the 17 affected workmen . 
But the statement of demands filed in the case was not signed by the Congress Mazdoor 
Sangh but it was verified and signed by the affected workmen individually . While . 
according to the order of refornece there were 17 affocted workmen the statoment of 
demands is signed only by 13 of the affected workmen . At an earlier stage of the case 
Sarvashri S . S . Kapur and B . N . Singh , Advocates appeared for the workmen and they 
were authorised only by 6 of the affected workmen , According to the statement of demands 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1963 /KARTIK + 25, 1890 


5285 


filed on behalf of the workmen , the affected workman , Shri Janki Daş mentioned at 
Sl. No. 6 in the schedule of roference has no more dispute for adjudication , Ultimately 
Shri Prasanta Burman filed his authority and appeared for the workmen , Shri Prasanta 
Burman is Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress and is examined for the workmen ag WW3. 
He tue conceded that he is authorised only by 6 of the affected workmen . He bas 
further pointed out that the 6 worlmen authorising him are not members of any trade 
union from 1967. Thus, there is no representation before this Tribunal in respect of the 
Icma mur ? Il uiffected workmen . This legal Haw apait, I do not find any substance in the 
Case set up hy the workmen on the merits. 

0 I, tuncfore , hold that the action of the management of the Dhangar Colliery in 
transicing the services of the 17 affected workmen from No . 4 Incline to No. 2 Pit 
with effect from the 7th June, 1965 was not to victimise the workmen and , as such , nonc 
of them is ent iled to any relief. The award is made accordingly and submitted under 
Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 

( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) Dhanbad . 

[No. 2 / 141 /65-LRII. ) 


New Delhi, the 8th November 1963 
S . O . 4070 .- - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1967 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Kalichhappar Colliery of Messrs C . P . Syndicate, Post Office Parasia , 
District Chhindwara and their workmen , which was received by thc Central Government 
on the 26th October, 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 
Duted the Septemher 24 , 1968 


PRESENT 
Sio Agaiwal, Picsiding Officer. 

CASE RIF No . CGIT /I.C ( R ) ( 131) OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Kalichhappar Colliery of Messrs C . P . Syndicate , Post 
Ofi :e , Parusea, District Chhindwara (MP ) 

Vs. 
Its workmn represented through M . P . Mine Workers Union , Chitowis Ganj, 

Chhindwara (M . P .) 


APPEARANCES : 

for employers - Su M . M Giradhan, Authorised Representative. 

Fonorkmen -- Sri R . K . Haldulkar, President, M . P . Mine Workers Union, 
INDUSTRY Coal Mine. 

DISTRICT: Chhindwara ( M . P .) 

AWARD 
By Government Notification No. 5 / 34 / 67 -LRII dated 21st September , 1967, the 
Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ . 
ment), Government of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the 
schedule to the order of reference to this Tribunal for udjudication : 

Matter of Dispute 
Wheher the management of Kalichhappar Colliery of Messrs . C . P . Syndicato , Post 

Office Parasia , District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) was justified in dis 
missing S / Shri Behari son of Bhura and Paranya son of Jeejya, magazine 
chowkidars from service with effect from the 8th October , 1966 ? If not, 

to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 
2 . Both the concerned workmen , Bebari and Paranya , were at material time working 
as Shift Magazine Chowkidars , the third chowkidar in the shift having been one Lala . 


5286 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARIKA 25 , 1890 [PART 1]-- 


Out of these two , Bihari was , however, recorded as Mazdoor but it is not denied that 
he was working as Chowkidar . There is a magazino office in charge of ono Sri Mehta 
and the magazine godown from where explosives are issued is at some distance from the 
office . The chowkidar have to remain at office but have also to go and issue explosives 
from tho magazine godown . Two muzzle loading guns belonging to the colliery which 
used to be kept in the magazine office were found missing by Sri Mehta at about 3 P . M , 
on 11th April, 1966 , which was Monday . Tho shift duty of Bihari had ended and 
Paranaya had taken over at about 2 p .1n . Both the chowkidars were interrogated and on 
their inability to account for the loss , a report in police was lodged by the manager on 
the same date ( Ex . E / 1 ) after the fact was brought to the notice of the manager by the 
clerk incharge, Sri Mehta . It appears that the police investigated thc matter and finding 
no proof did not proceed further. The guns, however, were found after some time under 
a tree and presumably for this reason also no further interest was taken by the police . 

3 . Both Bihari and Paranya were charge-sheeted on 27th July , 1966 . They sub 
mitted their explanation which was found to be unsatisfactory , Sri I. J. Handa, the then 
Labour Welfare Officer held a departmental enquiry and on his finding dated 19th 
September , 1966 (Ex. E / 9 ) both the chowkidars were dismissed on 8th October, 1966 . 
The Union , M . P . Mine Workers Union , took up the dispute , which in duo course 
resulted in this reference . It was allcgcd on behalf of tho workmen that the two concerned 
workers were not at all negligent and the clerk incharge , Sri Mehta , is alonc responsible 
for the loss. There was no regular bonafide enquiry conforming to principles of natural 
justice . The management disputed the fact and further alleged that these workers were not 
members of the Union at the relevant time and the Union was not competent to raise a 
dispute so as to make it an industrial dispute. On the pleadings of the parties , the follow 
ing additional issues were framed in the case : 

Additional Issues 
1. Whether both the workmen concerned were members of the Union and the 

Union was competent to sponsor the disputo . Is the disputo not an indus 

trial disputo ? 
2 . Whether both the workmen were dismissed after a bonafide and proper enquiry 

in accordance with the provision of Standing Orders and principles of 

natural justice ? 
3 Weir both the concerned workmen guilty of the misconduct for which they had 

been dismissed ? 
Findings 

Issue No. 1 , — The question of espousal by a union has lost importanco by Sec . 2A 
I. D . Act. When a dispute relates to termination of sorvice it shall be deemed to be ao 
industrial dispute even though the other workmen be not parties to the dispute. Even so , 
necessary evidence had been given to prove that the two concerned workmen became 
members of the Union before they were charge -sheeted . Counterfoil receipts of both 
the workers (Ex, W71 and W / 3 ) have been filed to show that they paid subscription and 
became members on Uth Junc, 1966 . The extract of Membership Register (Ex W / 2 ) 
confirms the fact There is an espousal resolution in the mceting of the Union dated 
21st August , 1966 (copy of which is Ex . W / 4 ). After the workers were dismissed the 
Union addressed an appeal to the Managing Director on 19th October , 1966 (Ex , W / 7 ) 
in which it was stated that the workers were members of the Union . In reply (Ex . W / 6 ) 
the managemnt did not dispute the fact. Both the workers in their evidence have gtated 
that they had been members of this Union for quite a long time. It must, therefore , bo 
held that they were members of the Union and the Union was competent to espouse . 
The dispute was an industrial dispute . 

Issue No. 2 . — The enquiry in the case bristles with a number of loopholes and which 
arc so blatant as to lead to the inference that it was an empty [ ormality . In the first 
place , the charge -sheet against the workers was that two guns had been stolen during 
their duty hours which the result of their negligence . The charge therefore was of 
nezligence resulting in theft and not for failure on their part to inform tho clerk incharge , 
Sri Mehta . There was no evidence during the enquiry nor in the finding itself how tho 
gung were stolen due to the negligence of one or both and during their duty hours . 
All that transpired in the ovidence was that there was no chowkidar on the preceding 
date which was Sunday and that Bihari came at about 7 A. M . when u number of short 
ficers were sitting, that he obtained the key from Sri Mehta , the clerk incharge , opened 
the office and then went to the godown to issue explosives . Sri Mehta came later on and 
remained in office till about 12 Noon . When Bihari handed over charge to Paranya , the 
latter enquired about the guns and Bihari told him that they might have been given by Sri 
Mehta to someone. It was only at about 3 30 P . M . when Sri Mehta called Bihari again 
that the fact of guns being found missing without the knowledge of Sri Mehta wag 
detected . There was no suggestion in the evidence or by the managemçnt itself that 


SFC , 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5287 


that the gung were lost due to their negligence . The only charge which was built up against 
both was that they failed to inform Sri Mehta before Sri Mehta himcelt detected the loss 
und questioned them . This was , however , not the charge and the finding was different 
than the charge itself . 


The most extraordinary procedure was adopted by the Enquiry Officer. His finding 
(Ex . E / 9 ) and the record of enquiry proceedings (Ex. E / 13 ) would show that during 
the evidence it transpired that one Ram Prasad , Coal Cutter, had been found to be sitting 
in the magazinc office for no specific purpose . The Enquiry Officer called Ram Prasad 
and started an enquiry against him oxamining a number of witnesses. The enquiry became 
a roving one and was more directed against Rum Prasad than the two chowkidars. The 
dinding also was that the story narrated by Ram Prasad was found false by the evidence . 
Against the two chowkidars, the finding was that they had failed to inform Sri Mehta . 
This the chowkidars had admitted and explained . The further finding that these chowkidars 
lised to leave magazinc office volocked when they went to issuç explosive was more of 
a surmise than horne out by the evidence . The chowkidars had to perform the dual 
function of attending at magazine oflice and also to issue explosives from tho magazine 
Jodown . They could not possibly locked the office when persons were sitting in office and 
when Sri Mehta had mostly to be there . The guns had to be under his care rather the 
Chowkidars . 


In the finding the Enquiry Officer has not specifically stated tho evidence how the 
two chowkidars have been found to be guilty of nogligenco . As adverted to carlier, there 
was no precise evidence how the guns disappeared before the theft was detected . The 
Enquiry Officer conducted the enquiry under tho Model Standing Orders as stated by him 
but in his finding he recorded that the misconduct was proved under Sec , 2016 ) of 
Standing Orders of the Colliery and under Sec . 18 (f) of Modol Standing Orders of the 
Mining Industry . He took up the alternative stand because as stated by him he was 
not sure if the Standing Orders of the Colliery had been certified or not by them . I 
he had cared to look into relevant clauses of both Standing Orders viz ., Standing Orders and 
Model Standing Orders , he would have found that they referred to habitual neglect or 
negligence . There is no charge of habitual neglect or negligenco on tho workers . " Theso 
clauscs therefore were not at all attracted . The finding was different. It was not 
supported by cvidence and therefore suffer from perversity . The procedure of enquiry 
was greatly defective as a third person , Ram Prasad , was introduced and the whole enquiry 
was directed against him . The relevant clauses of the Standing Orders wore inapplicable , 
For all these reasons it must be held that tho enquiry was wholly defective and stands 
vitiated . 


Issue No. 3 . - Excopt for producing the Enquiry Officer, thc management did not 
choose to lead any evidonce on the misconduct for which they had been punished . As 
adverted to earlier the charge was that due to their negligence there had been theft of 
guns . The action , however, is sought to be justificd on the ground that the chowkidars 
failed to report the fact to the clerk incharge , Sri Mehta , before he himself detected the 
theft. If the workers had to be punished for this reason they should have been charge 
Shceted differently for failure to report to Sri Mehta . Consequently , this failure on their 
part cannot be availed of by the management. Apart from this, both the workers came 
in evidence and explained the omission . They further stated that the key of the office 
and the magazine godown remained with Sri Mehta and that whenever they went to 
magazine store they kept the office locked . With no controverting evidence on behalf of 
the management, there is no reason to doubt their testimony which is made trustworthy 
by thọ attendant circumstances . When the key remained with Sri Mehta it is possiblo 
that the guns may have been stolen on the previous day which was & Sunday when 
chowhidars were not on duty . In any case , Paranya could not be made responsible when 
the guns had been missing during the shift of Bihari. To dismiss both when the logs ha -1 
taken place admittedly not in the shift of Paranya was arbitrary and wholly unjustified . 
When the only blume which is sought to be attached to the couduct of the two workmen 
was that they failed to report about the loss of the guns to Sri Mehta on the working 
day and when Sti Mchta himself had been working and sitting in the offico during (lay 
time and there was no suggestion that they or any of them had any hand or complicity 
in the loss, the punishment of dismissal against both was unconscionable and disproportionate 
to the fault assuming that there was any blame attached to this omission . It must 
thercfore be held that the two workers concerned were not guilty of the misconduct for 
which they have been punished . 


Decision 

The result is that the management was not justified in dismissing S / Sr Bihari and 
Paranya with effect from 8th October , 1966 . They have to be reinstated and will be 


5288 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II - 


entitled to back with attendant benefits. The Union will further be entitled to 
Rs. 100 / - as costs of proceedings from the management. 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer, 

[No. 5 / 34 /67- LRII.Y 
S . O . 4071.--- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Parbelia Colliery of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited , Post Office 
Disergarh , District Burdwan and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 29th October , 1968. 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 18 OF 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Parbelia Colliery of Messrs Bengal Coal Company 

Limited , 


AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 
Shri B . N . Banerjee 

. . Presiding Officer.. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers — Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate, 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , Advocate . 
Ştate : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines, 
AWARD 


By Order No. 6 / 17 / 68 -LRII, dated April 16 , 1968, the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment ) , referred the following dispute between the employers in relation to Parhelia Collicry 
of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudica 
tion , nainely : 
" Whether the dismissals of Shri Ajodhya Thakur, Fan Khalasi and Shri Dhaneswar 

Nunia , Wagon Shunter by the Management of Parbelia Colliery with effect 
from the 12th April, 1967 and 22nd April 1967 respectively , were justificd ? 
If not, to what relief are the workmen ontitled ? " 


2 . The cause of the workmen was espoused by a trade union , known as the Colliery 
Mazdoor Union , which filed a written statement. The management also filed a written 
statement. Both the trade union and the employer company took the liberty of filing 
supplementary statements or rejoinders. 


3 . Before I go into the respective pleadings , I need set out the charges on which the 
two workmen were dismissed . The chargesheet against Ajodhya Thakur, Fan Khalasi, 
reads : 
" On 18th March , 1967 at about 11 P . M . you , along with Dhaneswar Nunia , Wagon 

shunter , entered into the courtyard by scaling over the wall into the quarter 
of Shri R . L . Mahto . Foreman Traince . There was a row made by Mangat 
Rana and Jagdish Ram who live in adjacent quarters . Shri R . L . Mahto 
got up from sleep and came out of his room . He saw two persons in the 
courtyard and caught hold of Dhaneswar Nunia after struggle but vou 
escaped by scaling over the wall. You were identified by Sri R . L . Mahto . 
After that some neighbourers namely Swaran Singh , Mahadeo Roy and 
others came to the spot on hearing row . Dhaneswar Nunja on being qucs 
tioned confessed his guilt and told your name as his associate . The matter 
was reported to the Welfare Officer and as instructed Dhaneswar was handed 

over to the Police . 
You are therefore charged under Standing Orders Section 27 clause ( 2 ) , ( 19 ) and 

( 20 ) . " 


Suc . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 8905289 


The charge against Dhaneswar Nunia was couched in almost identical language with 
necessary variations. That charge also is set out below : 
" On 18th March , 1967 at about 11 P ,M . you along with Ajodhya Thakur , fan 

khalasi, entered into the courtyard by sculing over the wall of the quarter of 
Sri R I.. Mahto , Firernen traince . There was a row made by Mangal Rana 
and Jagdish Ram who live in adjacent quarters . Shri R . L . Mahto got up 
from sleep and came out of his room . He saw two persons in the courtyard, 
caught hold of you after struggle but the other escaped by scaling over the 
wall . After that some neighbourers namely Swaran Singh , Mahadeo Ray 
and others came to the spot on hearing row . You confessed your guilt and 
confessed that Ajodhya Thakur was your associate . The matter was report 
ed to the Welfare Officer and as instructed you were handed over to the 

Police . 
You are therefore charged unler Standing order Section 27 clause ( 2 ) , ( 19 ) and 

( 20 ) . " 
4 . The provisions of the Standing order , to which reference was made in the two 
chargesheets, are herein -below quoted ; 
" 27 ( 2 ) . Theſt, fraud or dishonesty in connection with company s business or pro 

perty . 
27 ( 19 ) Any breach of the Indian Mines Act, or any other Act, or of any rules or 

byc-laws thereunder , or of Standing Orders , 
27 ( 20 ) Abetment of, or attempt at abetment of any of the above acts of miscon 


duct. " 


Both the workmen showed cause to the charges levelled against then . Ajodhya Thakur 
denied that he had cntered into the quarters of R . L . Mahto with Dhaneswar Nunia , He 
further stated that it was untrue that he was identified by R . L . Mahto . He gave two 
reasons why Dhapcswar Nunia implicated him , namely : 
" (i ) That he was severely beaten and as such he took my name as I had long 

standing enmity with him . Dhaneswar Nunia lives just by the side of my 
quarter and deals with liquor. There is assemblage of Badmashes in his 
quarter. To stop this nuisance I requested Welfare Officer and Union 
Leaders many times to remove Dhaneswar Nunia from that quarter. It 19 

for that reason he falsely implicated me. 
( ii ) Secondly on 12th March , 1967 at 6 P . M . Dhaneswar Nunia complained against 

me before Sri Tripathi, Union Leader and told that I threatened to slap him . 
I do not know what action Sri Tripathi took . On that very day in the 
market Dhaneswar Nunja made the same complaint to Bholanath and 

Marai Mabata. " 
The cause shown by Dhaneswar Nunia was as follows : 
** * * Rambilash Singh, Mining Sirdar is related to me. I have been staying with 

him for last one week . On 18th March , 1967 1 drank wine and was in a 
drunken state . I entered into the quarter of Sri R , L , Mahto by mistako 
taking it to be quarter of my relation Rambilash . Before entering the 
quarter I shouted but there was no response . I was convinced that it was 
my relation s quarter, * * * I was caught by making bulla Chor, Chor . There 
was none with me. I was badly assaulted and the people asked me as to 

who was with me and out of fear I took the name of Ajodhya Thakur.* * 
5 . In the written statement filed by the Mazdoor Upion , on behalf of the workmen , it 
was stated thal Ajodhya Tbakur was a man of one hand only " and it was impossible for 
him to scale the wall and enter into Mahato s quarters . It was further stated in the 
written statement that there was little material evidence against Thakur and his dismissal 
was unjustified . The findings of the domestic çnquiry were characterised as perverse . So 
far as Dhaneswar Nunia was concerned , it was not denied that he had entered into tho 
quarters of R . L . Mahto but the reason given was that he was drunk and entered the 
quarters under some sort of confusion and not with any criminal intention . It was lastly 
pleaded that both the workmen had been criminally prosecuted under Section 54 / 109 of 
the Code of Criminal Procedurç but were discharged . The dismissal of Dhaneswar Nunia 
was also characterised as unjustifica . 


6 . la the writton statement filed by the management, the physical disability of Ajodhya 
Thakur was not denied . But it was stated that the compound wall was only 5 feet in 
height and there was a hcap of coal, about 3 fcet in height, stacked in the courtyard 
against the compound wall, and as such it was possible even for an one handed person to 


5290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II — 


scale the wall . It was further stated that Ajodhya was identifled by R , L , Mahto while he 
was scaling. It was also established at the enquiry , that Ajodhya bad accompanied 
Dhaneswar Nunia on the day of occurrence . He was therefore found guilty of the charge 
at the domcstic enquiry . So far as Dhaneswar Mahto was concerned , it was pleaded , that 
ho was not found to be drunk and because he was caught red - handed inside the courtyard 
und his unauthorised entry was established by evidence , ho was found guilty of the charge 
at the domestic enquiry . 


7 . There was a supplementary statement filed on behalf of the Colliery Mazdoor Union 
wherein the height of the wall is stated to be 5 and not 5 . The other allegations con 
tained in the said supplementary statement are not material. It is in the background of 
the pleading as summarigcd above , I have to consider the dispute referred to this tribunal. 

8 . There was one witness examined on behalf of the trade union . He was L . P . 
Tripathi, the Secretary of the local branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Union . He disputed 
in his evidence that the workinen concerned were dismissed really for any misconduct but 
said that thoy were wrongfully dismissed . The employer company did not want to 
cxamine any witness . I, however, found Mr, Kabi, the Enquiring Officer, present in Court . 
and examined him as a Court witness to clarify certain points. 

9 . I need to remind myself, at this stage , that sitting as an industrial tribunal I do not 
exercisc appellate jurisdiction over domestic enquiry . It is not open to me to substituto 
my own judgment for that of the management. I can interfero only in the following 
circumstances : 

( 1) When there is want of good faith ; 
(2 ) When there is victimisation or unfair labour practice ; 
( 3 ) Whon the management has been guilty of basic error or violation of principles 

of natural justice ; and 
(4 ) When on the materials the Anding is baseless or perverso . 
The abovc principles was laid down by the Supreme Court in Indian Iron and Steel 
Co . Ltd . v Their workmen , ( 1958 ) I LLS 260 and have ever since been followed by the 
Supreme Court. In this limited jurisdiction I have to see how far the action of the 
management was justified , 

10 . The allegation against the workmen , in the chargesheets and in the ploadings, do 
not go to the extent that they were guilty of theft, fraud or dishonesty in connection with 
the company s business or property within the meaning of Section 27 ( 2 ) of the Standing 
Order Nor, do the allegations show that they were guilty of brcach of Indian Mines Act 
or any other Act or any other Rules or bye-laws hereunder made, o cortemulules y 
Section 27 ( 19 ) of the Standing Order . Nor do the allegations go to show that they were 
guilty of abetment of anyone of the above acts of misconduct within the meaning of Sec 
tion 27 ( 20 ) of the Standing Order . 

11 . Mr. Narsingh , learned Advocate for the employer company, submitted that Section 
27 ( 19 ) contemplated breach of the provisions of Standing Orders as well and the con 
duct of the workmen would attract the mischief of Section 27 ( 3 ) of the Standing Oller , 
which reads : 

" Drunkenness, fighting, riotous and disorderly or indecent behaviour ," 
In my opinion , if the workmen were sought to be charged for drunkenness , fighting 
riotous or disorderly or indecent behaviour , they might casily be charged specifically under 
Section 27 ( 5 ) of the Standing Order. They were not, however, specifically charged with 
euch misconduct. To try to spell out a charge under Section 27 ( 5 ) from what is contain 
ed under Section 27 ( 19 ) may not be unimaginable but so to do has the peril of making 
the charge vaguo and also un - understandable. It may not be understood whether it was 
the intention of the management to charge the workmen for the misconduct of drunken 
ness or for any other misconduct contemplated under Section 27 ( 3 ) . The rule of natural 
justice requires that a person must be charged with specific misconduct and he must be 
given proper opportunity to show cause against that specific misconduct. Against the 
misconduct of drunkenness, I do not think the workmen concerned were given any opror 
tunity to show cause and the cnquiry also did not proceed on that basis. I do it, 
therefore , make much of this argument. 

12 . Mr. D . L . Sen Gupta , learned Advocate , appearing for the union , contended that 
the Security Officer of the employer company Mr. Kabi, who conducted the domestic 
enquiry violated several principles of natural justice in the conduct of the enquiry . He 
was, it was submitted , wrong in visiting the place of the incident, without notice to the 
workmen , and was further wrong in incorporating the personal impressions gathered by 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25 , 1890 

9, 1890 


5291 


him in such visit in the enquiry report. The passage on which he relied was an extract in 
the report against Ajodhya Thakur ( collectively marked Ext. A ) . The pas , gercads : 
" I visited the spot. The compound wall of the quarter of R . L . Mahato is about 

5 ft . high . Back door was kept locked up . There is a heap of coal stacked 
against the wall in the courtyard about 2 ft. in height, but marks on the 
wall indicates that originally height was about 3 ft. There are 6 blocks 
in tho row , Sri Mahato lives in 11 block . The witnesses live in other blocks. 
P . W . Jagdish Ram and Mangal Rana live just behind . Thero ore lights 
fixed outside the verandah walls facing courtyard , one for two blocks. 
The place is well lighted . Delinquent Ajodhya Thakur and Dhaneswor live 
in Amdanga quarters about a mile from the spot. Sri Mahto lives with 

his wife only ." 
The report against Dhaneswar Nunia ( collectively marked Ext. A ) reads: 
" I have discussed the evidences fully in the enquiry report of the chargesheet issued 

against Sri Ajodhya Thakur . Both the chargesheets are for the miscon 

duct of the samo transaction. This report may be taken into account." 
Mr. Sen Gupta submitted that the mischief of the personal visit, which coloured the 
report against Ajodhya Thakur, also coloured the report against Dhaneswar Nunia . In 
my opinion , thero is substance in this submission . The law of natural justice requires 
that persons charged must have opportunity of rebutting every piece of cvidenco . It 
appears that, from his personal visit, Mr. Kabi collected a good deal of material impres 
sions. Given an opportunity , the workmen might have disproved some or all of them . 
Deprived of that opportunity , they had to succumb to the personal impressions ( t -parte 
gathered by Mr. Kabi and this was denial of natural justice to the workmen concerned . 

13 . The next defect in procedure pointed out by Mr. Sen Gupta was that the workmen 
cxamined a witness of the name Bholanath . I find his evidence on the record ( collectively 
marked Ext. A ) of the enquiry proceedings . At the end of his evidence there is the 
following endorsement recorded : 
" The witness refused to sign on the statement and told that he will give in writing 

in Hindi." 
The evidence was taken down by Mr. Kabi himself. Unfortunately in his cnquiry report 
against Ajodhya he made the following observation ; 
" DW Bholanath , whose name was given in the explanation appeared but refused 

to make any statement. He left the place of enquiry saying that he would 
give a written statement but did not do it though called for." 


This is somewhat a strange passage . If a witness refused to sign his deposition , that 
fact may be noted . The correctness of the deposition may be challenged by the witness 
himself . Here the witness does not challenge his own deposition . How his deposition 
was left out of account, merely because the witness wanted to submit a statement, is not 
understandable . I think that by keeping out of consideration Bholanath s evidence law 
of natural justice was again violated . 


14 . Apart from what I have stated , it appears from Ext. 1 and the evidence of Mr. 
Kabi himself , that on the complaint of R . L . Mahto , Ajodhya and Dhaneswar were both 
prosecuted under Section 54 / 109 Cr. P . C . Both of them were discharged by Sub 
divisional Magistrate , Purulia , under an order dated September 25, 1967. The order of 
dischargo reads : 
" O . P . Io present. No witocos . In absence of evidence no order can be passed 

directing O . Ps. to cxecute bond . They are discharged ." 


The order in a criminal court is not rejudicata before a domestic enquiry . But it is 
significant that R . L . Mahto could not produce any evidence against the alleged miscon 
duct of the two workmen . Further , the case against Ajodhya is worse . He is a man 
suffering from physical disability having but one hand. He was not caught. He is suid 
to have been identified by R . L . Mahto and implicated by Dhaneswar . Too much 
appears to have been made of a confession of a co - accused , who retracted his confession 
at the first opportunity . 


13 . Lastly , I find that the enquiry officer imported his own imagination into the 
enquiry report. He was confronted with the following passage in the cnquiry report 
against Dhaneswar Nunia ; 
" The backdoor of the courtyard was locked up from inside and the front duurs 

were bolted from inside. As ch the delinquent had to scale over the wall 
to enter the courtyard ." 


5292 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II 


He was asked about the evidence on which the bolting of the front door was based , 
He said that was his inference from what was stated by Jagdish Ram and Mongal Rana . 
In my opinion , the inference was too readily made. 


16 . Thus , I find that the enquiry was not properly conducted. The rules of natural 
justice were violated . The Enquiring Officer proceeded on inference not properly drawn 
and personal impressions gathered at the back of the workmen concerned. That was 
pervcrsity . He disregarded the evidence given on behalf of the delinquents without 
justification . The charges against the workmen werc vague and not properly under 
standable . I therefore hold that the enquiry against the workmen was not properly 
conducted , 


17 . Before I close this judgement, Inced notice one decision to which iny attention 
was invited by Mr. Narsingh , Mr. Narsingh relied on the following paysage in the 
Supreme Court decision in Central India Coalfields Ltd ., Calcutta and Ram Bilus Shobhnath 
( 1961) I LLJ 546 at pago 548: 
" Standing order 29 ( 5 ) provides that drunkenness, fighting , riotous or disorderly 

or indecent behaviour constitutes misconduct which entails dismissal. 
Normally , the standing orders would apply to the behaviour on the pre 
miscs where the workmen discharge their duties and during the hours of 
their work . It may also be conceded that if a quarrel takes place between 
workmen outside working hours and away from the coal premises that 
would be a private matter which may not fall within standing order 29 ( 5 ) : 
but in the special circunstances of this case , it is clear that the incident 
took place in the quorters at a short distance from the coal-bearing area and 
the conduct of the respondent which is proved clearly amounts both to drun 
kenness as well as riotous, disorderly indecent behaviour. In fact, as the 
enquiry officer in substance has found , tnless the appellant took some action 
against the respondent, breach of peace was threatened and that is not a 
matter which the appellant could consider with complacence ." 


He also invited my attention to the passage of Mr. Kabi s evidence where he stated , 
" Thc quarters are company s quarters allotted to workmen . The quarters are located 
about 200 yards away from the Pits ." Mr. Narsingh submitted that the circumstances 
of the instant casc were similar to the circumstances of the caso before the Supremo 
Court and I need not interfere with the punishment imposed upon the workmen . I am 
not satisfied with this argument. Here the charge was different. Assuming for the same 
argument that it included the chargo of drunkenness as well, the workmen were not 
charged with fighting , riotous or disorderly or indecent behaviour. It was not the 
allegation that they were menace to the peace of the colliery . In cases which are 
extreme, as the case before the Supreme Court, order of dismisasl for drunkenness , etc . 
may be justified . The evidence does not bear out that the instant case is as bad as the 
casc which way before the Supreme Court. Thus the Supreme Court s decision does not 
help Mr. Narsingh . In my opinion , however , the procedure adopted in the domestic 
onquiry violated natural justice and for that reason the findings of the domestic enquiry 
cannot be sustained and consequently the penalty imposed must also be set aside . 


18 . In the result, I hold that the dismissal of Shri Ajodhya Thakur, Fan Khalasi and 
Shri Dhaneswar Nunia , Wagon Shunter , by the management of Perbelia Collicry with 
effect from 12th April, 1965 and 22nd April 1965, respectively were not justified . The 
Workmen are entitled to reinstatement. There is no evidence that they were sitting idle 
for the entire period during which they stood dismissed . I therefore , do not award back 
wages to them . This is my Award . 


19 . This award is without prejudices to the employer company to start fresh pro 
ceedings against tho workmen for the same misconduct. 

( Sd ./ -) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer; 
Dated October 23 , 1968. 

. [No. 6 / 17 /68 -LRII ] 


10:40 het industrian los 


S . O . 4072 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Goverament hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute betwen the employers 
in relation to tho Samla Dalurband Colliery. Post Office Pandaveshwar, District Burdwan 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 29th October , 
1968 . 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5 . 93 


- 


- - 


- 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 21 or 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Samla Daluroand Colliery 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCES: 

On behalf of Employers , Shri Prasanta Bumman , Advocate . 

On behalf of Workmen — Shri Parasu Ram Panda 
Srate : West Bengal 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines. 

AWARD 
By Order No. 6 / 25 /68 -LRII dated April 6 , 1968 , the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rchabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
mont ) , rcferred the following dispute between the employers in relation to the Samla 
Dalurband Colliery and their workmen , to this tribunal, for adjudication , namoly : 
" Whether the management of Samla Dalurband Colliery Post Office Pandaveshwar, 

District Burdwan was justified in stopping Shri Dharmadas Ghosh , Mining 
Sirdar from work with effect from the 23rd December, 1966 ? If not, to what 

relief is the workmon entitled ?" 
2 . In this reference both the einployer company and the trade union, which had 
espoused thc cause of the workman concerned . took up a strange attitude. They did not 
file their written statements until the last moment before the hearing started . Both the 
partios filed their respective written statements and also their respective documents only when 
the hearing was about to start. I did not approve of their conduct but since neither 
party objected to the belated filing of the written statement and the documents I accepted 
the written statemeats and the documents filed at too late a stage . 

3 . West Bengal Khan Mazdoor Sangh , which espoused the cause of the workman 
concerned , stated in paragraphs 2 to 4 of the written statement; 
" 2 . That the said management stopped the workman from his services on and from 

22nd Decenior, 1966 without any notice or chargeshçet or whatsoever . 
3 . That the said workman had been working in the said colliery on and from 2nd 

January , 1964 without any misconduct whatsoever . 
4 . That the workman verbally approached the management to allow him to report 

for his duty but in vain ." 
4 . In the written statement filed by the employer company it was pleaded that the 
workman bad committed the misconduct of " neligence and wilful disobedience " and there 
was a chargesheet issued on December 23 , 1966 . It was further pleaded that the workman 
refused to accept the chargesheet and left the colliery and his job , after an altercation 
with the then manager. In paragraph 6 of the written statement, it was stated that a 
letter of warning was issued to the workman , on January 2 , 1967, asking him to submit 
his cxplanation within three days failing which it would be presumed that he had joined 
work clsewhere . Later on . in paragraph 7 of the written statement, it was stated that 
thic , workman did not submit his cxplanaion and never reported for duty in the colliery ; 
he took away all his certificates from the colliery office and presumably joined another 
collicry . In paragraphs 8 and 9 of the written statement, it was stated that the workman 
made a complaint before the Labour Enforcement Office at Ukhra , in July 1967 . He 
did not ask for re - employment but only wanted retrenchment compensation. The matter 
was, it was alleged , mutually settled in the office of the Labour Enforcement Officer , on 
October 27 , 1967, and the employer agreed to pay all his dues. Persuant to the agreement, 
it was further alleged , the employer sent all his dues by money order on December 5 , 1967. 

5 . The chargesheet said to have been issued to the workman was sought to be proved 
by Sarat Chandra Dutta , the overman in - charge of the colliery concerned . The charge 
was couched in the following language ( Ext. 1 ): 
" You have in violation of the order given not to widen the main gullary connecting 

9 nit . widened the samc thereby endangering the life of workmen employed 
there . 


5294 


1994 THE GAZETE OF INDIA:NOVEMBER 16,196/KARTIKA 21,190 por 1- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART 1] - 


- 


- - - 


- 


Please show cause why disciplinary action may not be taken against you . You 

are also hereby suspended for 3 days . Your explanation must be received . 

by me within the next 24 hours," 
In his evidence , Sarat Chandra Dutta , the only witness examined on behalf of the employer 
company, did not exactly corroborate the language of the charge . He said in his evidence : 
" Ho as entrusted with the supervision job when attempts were being made to . 

connect Pit No. 8 with Pit No. 9 . He did not properly supervise and there 
fore the connection had been made wider than was necessary ." 


Be that as it may , how this chargesheet was served upon the workman is not quite under 
standable . Sarat Chandra Dutta , in his evidenco said , " chargesheet was issued but the 
workman did not receive the chargesheet, * * *Thereafter , tho workman concernod did not 
attend work and I asked for substitute in his place . The workman concerned has his . 
residential quarters in the colliery . He was not in his quarters. It was under lock and 
key ." This witness furthor said in his evidence that , on January 2 , 1967, the following: 
leller ( Ext. 2 ) was sent to the workman concerned : 
" You were given charge shoet on 23rd December, 1966 which you refused to accept 

and left the colliery without intimation to any body. On going through the 
file it is found that you have not resubmitted the Mining Sirdar certificate 
which you took from the offico on 15th January , 1966 . If satisfactory 
explanation is not received within 3 days it will be presumed that instead 

of meeting the charges made against you , you havo joined duties elsewhere. " 
This witnegs also said in his evidence : 
" ( Shown letter dated January 2 , 1967 ) . Thereafter this letter was sent by post: 

and a copy of this was also pasted on the Notice Board . I am not sure : 
whether this was sent hy Registered Post. This letter was sent to the 
address of his quarters in the colliery . I am not suro whether the letter 
came back . I did not keep myself informed about this." 


6 . Thus , on the evidence there is little proof that the chargesheet was served upon : 
the workman concerned or that the letter dated January 2 , 1967 was recoived by him . 
It is no - body s case that any enquiry was held into the charges . Under the chargesheet 
he was only suspended for three days and not for the entire period pending cnquiry . I 
cannot, therefore, connect this stoppage of work with the charge which remained a chargo 
only and was not proceeded with . Nor docs it appear that the workmen concernal was 
proceeded against for absenteeism . There is no such chargo against him . This is also 
not the casc of the management against thc workman as mado beforo this tribunal. 


7 . In paragraph 8 of the written statement filed by the management, which I have 
summarised hereinbefore , it was stated that there was a settlement before the Labour 
Enforcement Officer under which the workman was paid his compensation and thereafter 
there was no question of reemploying him . If this had beon borne out by evidence , 
I might have considered this. Witness Sarat Chandra Dutta in his evidence, however , 
stated : 
" The workman also went before the Labour Officer . There the workınan asked! 

for re -employment and back wages. The manager was willing to give him 
re-employment and no back wages, because he was wilfully sitting idle. I 

do not know what happened thereafter." 
Thus, the non -employment of the workman was not due to what was pleaded in paragraph 
8 of the written statement. 

8 . The workman in his evidence proved two registered letters addressed by him to the 
Manager . By his letter , datod February 20 , 1967, the workman asked for retrenchment 
compensation but did not ask for reemployment. In his evidence, however, he stated 
that he waited on the colliery for about a month after work had been refused to hin . 
Thereafter, he fell sick and went home. If the workman is a truthful witness , he might 
have written both the letters under the belief that he would not be given re - employment 
and therefore only $ pired for monetary compensation , 

9. On the cvidence before mo, I do not find any reason for stopping the workman 
concerned from work with effect from December 23, 1966 . It cannot be for any mis 
conduct because no misconduct has as yet been proved against the workman . It cannot 
be for absentceism because that was not the case which was made or emphasised before 
this tribunal. 

10 . Before I close this award . I need disposcoff point somewhat hall-heartedly 
argucd lay Mr, Burman . He doubted that the workman concerned was a member of Khan 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5299 ; 


Mazloor Sangh . The workman said that he was a member . There is nothing to show 
to tho contrary . I, therefore , over-rule this point . 

11. In the vicw that I take, I hold that the management of Samla Dalurband Colliery 
was not justified in stopping Dharmadas Ghose , Mining Sirdar from work with effect from 
tho 23rd December, 1966 . Before me thc workman concerned expressed his desire to get 
back the work . I, therefore , direct his reinstatement with effect from the date of publi 
cation of the award . Regard being had to the conduct of the parties, in which tho 
employee did not show earlier interest for re - employment, I direct the management to 
pay to the workman half the wages for the period of his forced idleness. The period 
of his forced idleness shall not be treated as break in his service . 
This is my award . 

(Sd . ) B . N . BANERJCI , 

Presiding Officer. 
Datec , the 26th October, 1968 

(No. 6 / 25 /68 - LRII. ] 


S .O . 4073 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes tho following award of the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribual, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to thọ Malkera Colliery of Messrs . Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , 
Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora (Dhanbad ) and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on tho 28th October, 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR 

COURT (NO . 1), DHANBAD 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 (1)(d ) of the Industrial Disputou Act, 1947 . 

RFFERENCE No. 64 OF 1967 
Parties : 
Employers in relation to the Malkera Colliery of Mossrs . Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited , Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora , Dist. Dhanbad . 

AND 

Their Workman . 
Pri SENT ; 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCHS 

For the Employers ; Shri L H . Parvatiyar, Legal Assistant. 
For the Workman : Shu B . N . Sharma, President, Coogross Mazdoor Sangh , Bihar , 

Jorapolhar No. 1 , P . O . Jealgora, Dlot.. Dhanbad . 
STATE: Bihar . 

INDUSTRY: Coal. 
Dhunhad, dated the 18th October, 1968 


AWARD 
By its older No. 2 / 36 / 67-LRII dated the 21st March , 1967 , the Central Govornment , 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation , has made this reference to 
this Tribunal for adjudication of an industrial dispute which has been described in tho 
schedule as follows : 


SCHEDULI 
" Whether the management of Malkera Colliery (Post Office Malkera , District 

Dhanbad ) of Mesgra, Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba, 
Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad was justified in stopping from work 
Sarvashri Sukan Hazam , Underground Trollyman , Chhota Nanhak Dusadh , 
Underground Trammer and Sujait Hussain , Underground trammer with 
effect from the 7th June, 1966 and subsequently discharging them from 
service with effect from the 9th November , 1966 , 29th November, 1966 and 
the 22nd January , 1967 , respectively ? If not, to what relief are the work , 
mon concerned entitled ?" . 


5296 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KAR TIKA 25 , 1890 [Pari Il 

= 
2 . At the time of hearing, Shri B . N . Sharma, President, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , 
Bihar, who personally appeared on behalf of tho union , stated that, out of the tnice 
workmen whose cases have been referred for adjudication in this reference , he docs 
not press the casc of Sukan Hazam and Ch . Nanbak Dusadh , Underground trammers 
of Malkera Colliery , because they have taken their full and final settlement from the 
company including thcir provident fund , retiring gratuity etc ., and have gone. He has 
pressed the case of Sujait Hussain only . I am , therefore , concerned with his case . The 
two questions which have to be decided are ( i) whether the management of Malkera 
Colliery was justified in stopping Sri Sujait Hussain from work with effect from the 7th 
Juno, 1966 ; and (u ) wbcther the management of the same colliery was justified in dis 
charging him from service with effect from the 22nd January , 1967. 

3 . I may now state the facts of the case briefly . The Manager of the Malkera colliery 
of M / s . Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , sent a letter ( Ext. M ) dated the 25th May, 
1966 to four workmen namely S / Shri B , Md, Sadiquc , Ch . Nanhak Dusadh , Sukun Hazam 
and Sujait Hussain , all underground trammers , asking them to appear before the Medical 
Board at Jamadoba hospital on the 26th May, 1966 for their medical examination . They 
addressed replies to the Chief Mining Engineer , Jamadoba, on the 26th May , enquiring 
the reasons for their being asked to , appear at the medical examination . The letter of 
Sujait Husain is Ext. M2. The Manager, Malkera Colliery , then sent letters to the 
workers on the 1st June , 1966 , the letter addressed to Sujait Hussain being Ext. MS. A 
substance of the contents of that letter is that the worken concerned was understood to 
be in poor health and that it was, therefore, necessary for their own safely that there 
should be a medical check up and their physical fitness should be ascertained . He further 
advised them to appear before the Medical Board on the 2nd June , 1966 at 4 p .m . This 
instruction was not complied with . A slip (Ext. M28 ) was issued by the Manager on the 
7th June, 1966 to three of the workmen namely all except Md. Sadique to appear for 
medical check up before the Asstt. Medical Officer , Malkcra Dispepsary. The workmco 
did not appear even before the Asstt. Medical Officer . By a letter dated the 8th June 
addressed to all the four workmen , the Manager regretted that they had not appeared for 
medical check up which was necessary for thcir own safety and , therefore , he was stopping 
them from their duties with effect from the 7th June, 1966 As they had already, been 
told verbally on 7th June, 1966 . The Chief Mining Engineer, Jamadoba, issued letters 
dated the 15 / 16th Junc, 1966 to Sukan Hazam , Sujait Hussain and Ch. Nanhak Dusadh , 
explaining that it was necessary for their own safety that they should appear for their 
medical check up and saying that they would not be allowed to resume work unlesy they 
Complied with the Manager s instructions " as it involve certain risk " . The letter to 
Sujait Hussain is Ext. M9. 

4 . Sri B , N . Sharma, President, Congress Mazdoor Sangh , addressed a letter (Ext. M11) 
dated the 9th June , 1966 to the Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ), Dhanbad , raising a 
dispute about the stoppage of work of the four workmen with effect from the 7th June , 
1966 . 

5 . The Asstt. Labour Commissioner sent a letter (Ext. M17 ) dated the ist October , 
1966 to the Chief Labour Commissioner ( C ), New Delhi, wherein he stated that Sri B . N . 
Sharma, President of the union , had agreed to make the four workmen concerend appear 
for examination before the medical board without prejudice to their rights and also without 
prejudice to the right of the union to raise the dispute again if it was dis -satisfied with 
thç decision of the management , 

6 . It appears that Sujait Hussain had gone home and , therefore, it was on the 3rd 
November , 1966 that he appeared for examination before the Medical Board . Sukban 
Hazam appeared and was examined on the 20th October , 1966 . They were both found 
unfit. Ch . Nanhak Dusadh was first examined on the 20th October but was then advised 
to re - appear with specs on another date . Inspite of repeated calls, he did not appear with 
glasses until the 10th November, 1966 . Hence he was also declared to be unfit. 

7 . The certificate (Ext. M26 ) shows that the Medical Board examined Md. Sadique 
on the 3rd November, 1966 and found him fit. In view of this report, he appears to 
have been taken back in service . That is the reason why the reference doce not include 
his name. 

8 . I proceed now to consider the two questions formulated in paragraph 2 . 


Question No. ( 1 ) 
It secins clear that the management received information that Sujait Hussain and the 
other workmen weic in poor health , Apart from the fact that, if he was actually in 
poor health , he could not do his work properly , there was a great risk to his own health . 
The management cannot be said to have committed any fault in trying to ascertain from 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5297 


the Medical Board whether he was physically fit or unfit . The only way for them to 
ascertain this fact was to get him cxamined by the Medical Board . The union s allegation 
that the Medical Board merely acted in accordance with the management s instructions is . 
obviously untrue because that Board found Sadiquc to be fit . Had it been guided by the 
management s instructions, it would not have held any workman referred to it to bo 
physically fit. Besides, Dr. A . K . Bhattacharjee (M . W . 1 ) has been examined before me. 
He says that the Medical Board consisted of himself as the Chief Medical Officer and 
two other Doctors. He further says that it is not a fact that his Board declared Sujait 
Hussain 10 he unfit on the bidding of the management and adds that the Board is com 
pletely independent and gives its correct opinion . There is no reason to dis-believc his . 
cvidence on this point. 


9 . Inspite of repeated instructions from the management, Sujait Hussain besides other 
workmen did not appear for medical examination . Some method had , therefore , to be 
found to force him and other workmen to appear for such examination before the 
Mcdical Board . The Manager decided to stop him and others until they appeared for 
their medical examination . I do not think that there was any illegality or unfairness . 
in this action . Indeed, I hold that the management was justified in stopping Sujait 
Hussain from his work with effect from the 7th June, 1966 . 


Question No. ( ii ) 


10 . In order to decide this question , I have to consider whether the evidencc shows. 
that Sujait Hussain was physically unfit. Dr. Md. Mohsin , ( W . W . 2 ) has been examined 
before me. He has stated that, in July , 1966 , he was incharge of the Jogta Statc Dis 
pensary located at Katrasgarh , that he examined Sujait Hussain of Malkera Colliery on 
ihe 10th July , 1966 at Katras and that he found him mentally and physically fit for any 
acrive duty . He has added that he did not discover in him any disease , reformity or 
abnormality . He has proved a copy of his certificate (Ext. M 13( a )] which bears cut 
his evidence . Although he has been cross- examined by Sri Parvatiyar, the representativo : 
of the company, I do not see any good reason to disbelieve the evidence of this Dostor, 


11. It will be noticed that Sujail Hussain appeared before the Medical Board „ bout 
four months later , on the 3rd November, 1966 . Dr. Bhattacharjee ( M . W . 1) has proved 
the report ( Ext, M 23 ) of the Medical Board in connection with Sujait Hussain . The 
Medical Board s remark on this icport is " X " Ray chegt : Extensive infilteration of both 
sales of lungs, with P . V . prominence of both sides" . He hay stated that the X Ray 
photograph (Ext. M 27 ) is that of the chest of Sujait Hussain und that the report of tho 
Medical Bourd is based upon this photograph . On being cross - examined , he has stated ! 
that Ext. M 27 along with other photographs were taken by Sri B . N . Banerjee , an 
X Ray Technician , and he is alive . Sri B . N . Banerjee has not been examined . Dr. 
Bhattacharjee has not said that the photograph was taken in his presence . There is no 
cvidence to show that the photograph bears any identification mark which could enable 
the Doctor to identify it as the photograph of Sujait Hussain s chest. Unless it is the 
photograph of his chest , the whole basis of the medical board s opinion goes. The most 
important link to prove that the medical hoard s opinion relates to the chest of Sujait 
llussain and not to the chest of any other men , therefore , disappears . I am , therefore , 
unable to accept the Medical Board s opinion in connection with the unfitness of this 
workman , 

12 . I may add that Sujait Flussain examined himself before me on the 27th July , 
1.968. He then appeared to me to be perfectly fit. I am not a medical man but I can 
certainly say whether a man is weak and sickly or not. If he had been suffering from 
extensive tuberculosis as stated by Dr. Bhattacharjee ( M . W . 1 ), I would not have expected 
him to be hale and hearty on the date on which he gave his statement before me. 

13. In the circumstances mentioned above , I hold that tho Medical Board s cpinion 
may not have been based upon the X Ray photograph of Sujait Hussain s chest. Its 
opinion that he was unfit cannot, therefore , be relied upon . In view of this finding , I 
hold that the management was not justified in discharging Sujait Hussain with effect from 
the 22nd January , 1967 . Hence , he is entitled to be reinstated in his old post with all 
his back wages from tho 22nd January , 1967. 

14 . This is my award . It may now be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 15 of the Act . 

Sd . /- KAMLA SAITAI, 

Presiding Oficer. 
[No . 2 / 36 /67-LRII, 


5298 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBIR 16 , 1968/KARIIKA 25 , 1890 (PART II 


S . O . 4074 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the ladustrial Dispute , Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes tho following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , in the industrial dispute betwcen the employer 
in relation to the Ramnagar Colliery of Messrs Vindhya Collieries (Private ) Limited , 
Post Office Ramnagar Colliery (District Sahdol) Madhya Pradesh and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 26th October, 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

1600 , WRIGHT TOWN , JABALPUR 

Dared September 21 , 1968 
PRESENT: 
Sri G . C . Agarwala . Presiding Officer , 

Case Ref. No. CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 147 ) OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Ramnagar Colliery of Messrs Vindhya Collierles 

( Private ) Limited , Post Office Ramnagar Colliery (District Sahdol) , Madhya 
Pradesh . 


PRESTAG.E.arvele soort coa )06 


V s . 
Their workmon , represented through the Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangb , P .O . 

Ramnagar Collicry , District Sahdol (Madhya Pradesh ) . 
APPEARANCES : 

For Employers .-- S / Sri J. K . Choudhary, Advocate , & D . P . Agarwal, Manager. 

For Workmen . Sri B . P . Sharma, General Secretary of the Union . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Minc. 

DISTRICT : Sahuol ( M .P .) 

AWARD 
By Notification No . 5 /52 /67-LRII dated 23rd October, 1967, the Ministry of Labour 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour & Employment) , Government of 
India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the schcdule to the order of 
Fefcrcace , to this Tribunal for adjudication : 

MATTER OF DISPUTE 
Whether the action of the managemont in terminating the services of T . C . Kaliya , 

Overman with effect from the 1st May , 1965 is justified ? If not to what reliet 

is the workman entitled ? 
2 . The conceracd workman , Sri T . C . Kaliya was an Overman in the service of the 
Colliery from September , 1963. He was President of a Union , Ram Nagar Colliery Shramik 
Sangh . There is another union by the name of Koyala Khadan Shramik Sangh Ramnagar 
and Bijuri Calliery of which Sri Shivmangal Singh is the President. The latter union has 
established it s foot hold in this colliery having about 700 workers as it s members and the 
membership of the Union presided by Sri Kaliya had been gradually dwindling from about 
400 members in 1964 - 66 10 about 50 in 1967 . 

3 . On 16th April , 1967 at about 4 - 30 P . M . Sri T . C . Kaliya, to be hercidafter described 
as Kaliya , was taken from tho colliery by about 25 workers to the Manager in Ran Nagar 
in a truck along with a women, Smt, Phool Bai. Among those who had taken Kaliyu 
were S /Sri Shivmungal Singh , Rajini Kant, Shankar & Pancham . They alleged that Kaliya 
had molested Smt. Phool Bai and had tried to outrage her modesty . "The statenicot of 
Phool Bai was got recorded by the Manager through the Labour Welfare Officer ( Ex. E / 3 ) . 
In that statement, she coolirmed the allegation . Her version as stated before this Tribunal 
was that on the date in question at about 3- 30 P . M . Kaliya who was supervising the work 
of women labourers and beldars at the new incline was drunk with daru . He had seated 
himself in a coal tub which was in tilted position . In the same tub were sitting two other 
women Sot, Parbatia and Smt. Dubasia . They both called her saying that Kaliya Babu 
wanted water. She hesitated buí ultimately went with water. Kaliya caught hold of her 
band and tried to drag her. She shouted for help which attracted the attenion of a number 
of persons. Sri Shanker was he first to come for help and later on S /Sri Shiynangal 
Singh , Rajnikant and Pancham along with others came there. Seeing them Kaliya released 
his grin . Then both Kaliya and she were taken in a truck to the Manager s office in 
Ramnagar. She went to police station but as head muharir was not found she went to 
Bijuri police station next norning whero she lodged a report. It may be mentioned that a 
police case is rending against Kaliya and has not yet been decided . Tho version of Smt. 
Phool Bai has been supported by the evidence of two witnesses S / Sri Pancham and Shiv 
mangal Sjogh before this Tribunal. The Manager , Sri P . P . Agarwal, camc in ovidence 


Suc. 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1590 


5: 99 


. - - 


- 


and corroborated the version how Kaliya was brought by workers and Smt. Phool Bai 
uave her statement. He stated that the situation was tense and the workers had threatened 
that they would go on strike. He however , pacified the workers. Kaliyu then slipped 
yway and in the night came and gave an application ( EI. E / 4 ) stating that Smt. Phool 
Bui should be medically examined and arrangement for his medical treatment be mado as 
he had been beaten by workers. Kaliya then absented from duty and was not to be found . 

4 . On 23rd April, 1967 Şri Shivmangal Singh gave an application ( Ex. E , 5 ) to the 
Manager threatening that if no action was taken against Kaliya there would be a srtike 
wihr effect from 5th May, 1967. Evidently , unnerved by this communication the Manager 
without charge -sheeting or holding any domestic enquiry terminated the services of Kaliya 
by means of a communication dated 29th April , 1967 . It may be material to reproduce 
tho termination order which runs as follows: 
" It has been reported to me in writing by Smt. Phool Bai that on Sunday dated 

16th April , 1967 at about 3 PM , in the evening you tried to molest her 
forcibly by taking her away while you were on duty and were also drunken . 
While I was in the office , you were brought along with Srimati Phool Bai 
at about 4 - 30 P . M . in the truck by about 25 workers of the colliery . The 
statement of Shrimati Phool Bai was recorded in the office before Shri Shiv 
mangal Singh , President of Koyla Khadan Shromik Sangh Rajnagar and 

Bijuri Colliery . 
Since the charges against you are of very bad nature and workers of the colliery 

have made a concrete demand through their union , namely Koyla Khadan 
Shramik Sangh Rajpagar and Bijuri colliery that " either you should be dis 

inisscd or they will be constrained to go on strike from 3th May, 1967 " . 
You are also remaining absent from your duty of your own accord since 17th April, 

1967 to 28th April, 1967. Due to the above acts of yours, the coinpany has 
lost faith on you and since the workers of the collicry have also demanded 
your dismissal, henco to avoid strike and maintain peace in the colliery the 
management has decided to terminate your service with effect from 1st May, 
1967 . You will be given one month s salary in licu of notice as provided in 

the standing order . 
You are required to vacate the co s quarters immediately and take your full and final 

account on any working day from the office." 
11 inay be mentioned that the services of Kaliya were terminated from 1st May , 1967 and 
not from 1st May, 1965 as mentioned in the schedule to the order of rofercnce which 
evidently is a typographical error . There is no dispute that the services were terminated 
with effect from 1st May , 1965 . 

3 . On behalf of Kaliya a complaint was made by the Union on 21st July , 1967 raising 
an industrial disputo and alleging that the termination of Kaliya was in act of victimisation 
under the influence of the President of a rival union . The conciliation having failed resulted 
in this reference . 

6 . The case of the Union on behalf of Kaliya was that Sri Shivmangul Singh wanted 
to uproot the union run by Kaliya altogether and therefore conspired and fabırcated a 
false case . He came on the date and time in question with 10 or 12 persons , all armed 
with lathis and dandas and assaulted Kalia for no rhyme or reason . They forcibly took 
him in a truck as also Smt. Phool Bai who had been previously tutored to the Manager and 
Smt. Phool Bai was made to give a false statement. It may be mentioned that Kaliya 
has also filed a criminal case for ussault and battery against these persons which is pending. 
In support of this case , home witnesses were examined before this Tribunal and the evidence 
would be discussed at a proper stage . 

7. On behalf of the management, a preliminary objection was raised that the Union , 
Ram Nagar Colliery Shramik Sangh , was not competent to espouse and represent and that 
Sri B . P . Sharma is neither the General Secretary nor competent to represent the union . 
Since partics concerned desired a finding on the preliminary objection they were required 
to lead necessary cvidence which they did qod a finding was recorded on 10th July , 1968 . 
This is part of the award as annexure " A " . After it was held that the Union was con 
petent to espouse and represent and that as Sri B . P . Sharma was it s General Secretary 
he was compotont to represent the Union , the parties were required to lead evidence on 
mcrits of the respective stands taken by them in their pleadings. The management re 
cxamined the Manager, Sri D . P . Agarwal and produced three witnesses S / Sri Panchan , 
Shivınangal Singh and Smt. Phool Bai as stated above, on the point of the alleged role 
station of Smt. Phool Bai. On behalf of the Unjon , a list of seven witnesses was funrished 
out of which five were examined , namely Smt. Parbatiya , Smt. Nan Bai, S / Sri Badri Prasad , 
Rampal and Bahoo . T . C . Kaliya disqualified himself for examination as he remained in 
Court while other witnesses were being cxamined . The seventh witness Smt. Dubasia was 
not present and adjournment was considered unnecessary. 


6300 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 5, 1890 [Part II -- 


8 . The order of termination reproduced earlier is in exercise of clause 4 of the appoint 
ment letter dated 5th August , 1964 ( Ex . E / 7 ) which confers power of termination by one 
nonth s notice on either side. This power of termination either by contract or under 
Standing Orders is not unrestricted but is subject to scrutiny by Inuunals . The law as 
stated by the Labour Appellate Tribunal as far back as 1951 in Buckingham and Carnatic 
Company Ltd , etc . v , workers of the Company , etc . ( 1951- II- LLJ p . 314 ) was accepted and 
reiterated by the Hon ble Supreme Court in a number of decisions ( vide Chartered Bank , 
Bombay Vs. Charlered Bank Employees Union and another , 1960 - 11-LLJ p . 222; Assam Oil 
Company, Ltd ., Vs. Its workmen , 1960- I-ILL p . 587; U . B . Dutt & Co. ( P ) Ltd . V s. Its 
workmen ( Kozhikode Taluk Earcha Mill Thozilali Union ) 1962- I-LLJ p .374 . In all these 
cases it was held that the employers have to establish the bonafides and if the termination . 
of service is in colourable exercise of the power or as a result of vicwisation or unfair 
labour practice, the tribunal would have jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termina 
tion . In Assam Oil Company case ( supra ) it was further observed that if the discharge 
was punitive, " the tribunal would be justified in dealing with the dispute on the basis that 
despite its appearance to the contrary an order of discharge is in fact an order of dismissal 

. . . . . . . . The exercise of the power in question to be valid 
must always be bonafide and should not be passed with ulterior motives." It was further 
observed as follows: 
" It may also appear in somc cases ihat though the order of discharge is couched in . 

words which do not impute any misconduct to the employce, in substance 
it is based on misconduct of which , according to the employer, the employee 
has been guilty ; and that would make the impugned discharge a punitive 
dismissal. In such a case fairplay and justice require that the employee should 
be given a chance to explain the allegation weighing in the mind of ilie 
employer and that would necessitate a proper cnquiry . Whether or not the 
termination of services in a given case is the result of the bonafide exercise . 
of the power conferred on the employer by the contract or whether in sub 
stance it is a punishment for alleged misconduct would always depend upon 
the facts and circumstances of each case . In this connection it is important 
to remember that just as the employer s right to exercise his option in terms 
of the contract has to be recognised so is tho employees right to cxpect security 
of tenure to be taken into account." The same principle was reiterated by 
the Supreme Court in Tata Oil Mills Co . Ltd . Vs. Workmen reported in 
F . L . K . 1966 ( 13 ) page 65 and reaffirming the principle enunciared in earlier 
cases , it was stated that " the test always has to be whether the act of the em 
ployer is bonafide or not. If the act is malafide and appears to be colourable 
exercise of the power of contract . . . . . industrial adjudication would examinc 
the substance and would direct reinstatement in a fit case ." It follows there - - 
fore that the bonafides and the substance of the order , whether a dischunge 
or dismisals , are the chief points which have to be considered in industrial 
adjudication. If the management s action was bonafide even though the con 
duct for which the services of the workman has been terminated may amount 
to misconduct, the employers would still be justilled 117 Terminating the services 
by way of discharge and not resorting to the procedure of charge -sheeting 
and passing an order of dismissal after domestic enquiry . This position of 
law was again emphasised in Murugan Mills, Ltd . Vs. Industrial Tribunal, 
Madras and another , 1965- I-LLJ p .422 . The point to be considered in this 
caso is whether in all cases the management where a power of discharge si 
exercised must chargesheet, hold a departmental enquiry or failing which mlist 
establish the misconduct before the tribunal or the obligation is discharged by 
establishing his bonafide s which means that the employer has only to establishi 
what in tort would be lermed as a reasonable and probable cause for the 
belief that the conduct of the workinan concerned was unworthy. In Work 
men of Motipur Sugar Factory ( P ) Ltd . V s. Motipur Sugar Factory ( P ) Ltd ., 

1965- Il -LLJ p . 167 , thc Hon ble Supreme Court observed as follows : - - 
" In either casc , if the cnquiry is defective or if no enquiry has been held as 

required by the Standing Orders th : entire case would be open before the 

tribunal and the cmployer would have to justify on facts as well that it s 

orde : of dismissal or discharge was proper " . 
From what has been quoted above, it follows that the only duty which is cast upon the 
employers in the case of a discharge is to establish the bonafides that the order was. 
justificd and proper. There is no obligation on the employers to establish before the 
tribunal not only the bonafidcs but to prove the misconduct beyond reasonable doubt. An 
employer cannot be required to furnish such evidenco as is necessary to prove an offence 
in a criminal trial and the standard of proof would not be the samo as is required in a 
criminal case . As a matter of fact, he has to establish his own bonafidcs and not necessarily 
the guilt of the workman concerned . This is what I consider to be the import of observa 
tions of Hon ble Supreme Court in various cases cited above though there is no direct: 


SEC. 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5301 


authority on the point. Judged in that light facts and the evidence produced in the choc 
may be considered . 


9 . It is an admitted position that Kaliya with Smt. Phool Bai had been taken to Manager 
in a truck by about 25 workers who all alleged of misbehaviour on the part of Kaliya 
towards Smt. Phool Bai and who gave her statement before the Monager, It is further 
an undisputed fact that Kaliya slipped away and gave his application in the night to the 
Manager desiring medical cxamination of the women . This was a wholly baseless request 
as there was no allegation that the women had been ravished or any rape committed . It 
is further evident that Kaliya had remained absçnt since that day till his servicos wero 
terminated . When so many persons had alleged misbehaviour and the women was coming 
forward to support it and had in fact lodged report in police and considering the fact that 
Kaliya had been absenting and had not set up a counter story in his application ( Ex . E / 4 ) 
as is done now , the Manager had a good and reasonable ground to suppose that there was 
some substance in the allegation and his bonafides cannot be impeached if services Wcro 
terminated in exercise of the power derived by contract. The allegation that the Manager 
terminated the services voder pressure of the rival union is unfounded . No such allege 
tion was made by Kaliya in his application ( Ex. E / 4 ) or even subsequently till his services 
were terminated . Even after termination , the Union took the casc on 21st July , 1967 
nearly two months after the occurrence . If the whole thing had been concocted a tremend 
ous hue and cry would have been raised by his union against the conduct of the rival union 
and the management. The management by examining Smt. Phool Bai and two other 
witnesses, namely Shivmangal Singh and Pancham have proved that in fact there was some 
Misbehaviour by Kaliya with Smt, Phool Bai. The evidence which the Union produced 
to rebut the management s evidence does not inspire confidence. Out of the two woman 
Smt. Parbatia and Nan Bai ( W .Ws. 9 and 10 ) , Smt. Parbatia is the women who was stated 
by Smt. Phool Bai to have been sitting with Kaliya in a compromising situation in a tub . 
Both she and Nan Bai stated differently than other witneses saying that after Sri Shiv 
mangal Singh and his party took away Kaliya , Smt. Phool Bai was taken subsequently 
by them , Tho other witnesses, Badri Prasad , Rampal and Baboo stated that Smt. Phool Bai 
was commanded by Sri Shivmangal Singh to company them and was taken at one and the 
game time to the truck. These witnesses had not been mentioned by Kaliya in his applica 
tion ( EX, E / 4 ) to the Manager. Sri Badri Prasad claims that he was fixing machine at 
some distance and there was no misbehaviour on the part of Kaliya with Smt. Phool Baj. 
According to him , Sri Shivmangal Singh and others without giving any reason startod beat 
ing kaliya with lathis and dandas. Before taking him Sri Shivmangal Siogb 
commanded Smt. Phool Bai to accompany them and told her that she would 
have to depose what had been tutorcd c arlier. This is most 
extracrdinary and cannot be accepted . The presence of S / Sri Rampal and Baboo 
( W . Ws. 12 and 13 ) is doubtful. According to Sri Rampal his duty hours had finished 
at 2 P . M . and he was going home. Some two furlongs beyond he found Sri Shivmangal 
Singh and party conspiring that they would teach Kaliya a lesson. Sri Shivmangal Singh 
commanded him to accompany them and out of fear he went with them . This is all a 
cock and bull story . He had no business to remain loitering about for about 15 hours 
after his duty hours were over . He also stated that Smt. Phool Bai was commanded to 
accompany Shri Mangal Singh and was told to state what had been tutored earlier which 
is most unconvincing. Sri Baboo (W , W . 12 ) stated that although his duty hour , 
commenced from 4 P . M , he had come earlier by bicycle at about 2 . 30 P . M . Sri Shivmangal 
Singh commanded him and therefore he followed them . It is unlikely that he would 
have come so early before his duty hours . All these witnesses are such who do not 
Inspire confidence . Be as it may, it is not necessary to record a categorical finding whether 
Laliya was in fact guilty of molestation of Smk Phool Bai. Any such finding may 
adversely affect the criminal case pending against him . For purposes of this case , it 
would be suficient to examine the bonafides of the management in terminating his services . 
In other words, it is a subjective mental state of the employer which is really material 
in the case of discharge and not a positive proof of the misconduct. The circumstances 
gtatod abovc were sufficient to justify the action of tho Manager in terminating the 
services of Sri Kaliya . There was no motive of victimisation or unfair labour practice 
in doing so . The power was exercised bonafide and not with an oblique motivo. 


Decision ; 


The result is that issue under reference iş answered in affirmative. The termination 
of services of Sri T . C . Kaliya was justified and he is not entitled to any relief . No 
order for costs . 


Sd .) - G . C . AGARWALA , 

Preslding Officer 

21 - 9 - 1968 . 


530,2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART 11 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR . 
Dated July 10, 1968 


PRESENT : 
Sri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Oflicer, 

CASE Ref. No. CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 147 ) OF 1967 


PARTIES; 
Employers in relation to the Ramnagar Collicry of M / s. Vindhya Collierics (Private ) 
Limitod , Post Office Ramnagar Colliery (District Shahdol) Madhya Pradesh . 

Vs. 
Their workman , represented through the President, Ramnagar Colliery Shranik 
Sangh , P .O . Ramnagar Colliery , District Shabdol, M .P . 

ORDER 


By Notification No. 5 / 52 /67-LRII dated 23rd October, 1967, the Ministry of Labour, 
Employinent and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) , Government 
of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order 
of reference , to this Tribunal for adudication : 

MATTER OF DISPUTB 
Whether the action of the management in terminating the services of T . C . Kaliya , 

Overman with effect from the 1st May , 1965 is justified ? If not to whot 

relief is the workman entitled ? 
2 . After the pleading of the partics were filed , certain additional issues were framed 
in the case on 6th February , 1968. The management raised a plea that Ramnagar Col 
liery Shramik Sangh , the reprçsentative of the workman , in their colliery had ceased to 
function and had becomc defunct. Consequently , it could not raise the dispute and the 
dispute is not an industrial dispute . In the rejoinder filed by the manayoment, it wag 
plcaded that Sri B . P . Sharma who purported to sign the written statement was not the 
General Secretary and was not competent to renresent. There were other pleas raised on 
which two other issues wero framed which need not be stated at present as the parties 
agreed that the preliminary objection may be disposed of before going into other issues 
Consequently , cvidence was recorded and arguments were heard on the issue reproducod 
below : 

Preliminary Issues 
1 . ( a ) Whether Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh was competent to espouse and 

represent ? 
(b ) Is Shri B . P . Sharma, General Secretary of Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh 

and competent to represent the Union ? 
Findings : - Issue No. 1( a ) & (6 ) . 


In the written statement of the management, che preliminary objections as stated in para 
graphs 1, 2 & 3 are ( 1 ) the dispute is not an industrial dispute ( 2 ) the dispute has not boon 
validly raised and hence reference is bad in law ard ( 3 ) the dispute has neither been saigod 
Dor the cause has been esnouised by the workmen of the emnlover . Except for making thest 
bald statements, reasons thereof have not been mentioned , In the statement of facts , it was 
stated that Sri T . C . Kallya on 16th April, 1967 at about 4 - 30 P . M . had molested a womco 
Smt. Phool Agi And woe hrought in ruetndy hy A number of workmen , Another Voor 
Kavla Khadan Shramik Sangh Rajnogar and Blinri Collierv pressed for immediate action 
against Sri Kallya on threat of strike and therefore the management had to take this action 
in terminating he servicest of Sri Kaliya. In he rejoinder . it was stated that in Ramnagar 
Colliery , there was no Union named as Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh and all tho 
members of this Union are members of Kovla Khadan Shrámik Sangh Ralnagar and 
Bijuri Colliery . It was further alleged that the management had not scen SH B . P . 
Sharma in the Colliery and who is an outsider . He was, therefore , not competent to 
represent. The stand taken by the management anpears to be i11 -conceived . The Union , 
Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh . was admittedly a Union which had been recoonined 
by the management for the last few vears. Ex. W / 1 lg a copy of Registration Certificate 
of the Union which shows that it was registered on 12th January , 1963. There was 
care before this Tribunal No . CGIT /IC / 71/ 66 in which both the Unions, Koyla Khadap 
Shramik Sangh Rajnagar and Bijuri Colliery as also Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh 


Sec . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 


5303 


were parties , a copy of the additional written statement in casc No . 7 /66 (Ex. W / 4 ) would 
show that in that cusc thc management contested the competency of Koyala Khadap 
Shramik Sangh to represcat the workers and not of Ramnagar Colliery Shramik Sangh . 
Ex. W / Si copy of the order sheet in that case which would show that this Umn 
continued to represent the workmen and was recognised as such by the management when 
the dispute was settled in February , 1967. The management applied for postponcment 
on one date in that case and Ex , W / 11 is a copy of the application in which an adjourn 
ment was sought from 16th December , 1966 to any other date after 25th January . 1967 
as the Manager had been assaulted and was contined to bed . Copy of the application 
was sent to this Union also . Conscqucntly , it does not lie in the mouth of thọ managc 
ment to contend that at least till early part of 1967 this Union had not been functioning , 
What the management contended was that after the strike in the Colliery which took place 
in December, 1966 the rival Union , Koyla Khandan Shramik Sangh Rajnagar and Bijuri 
established it s hold on the workers thereby displacing this Union which has not been 
funtioning . It does not stand to rçason that thic Union would dic out so soon after the 
strikc of December , 1966 . It is indeed true that the other Union gained an upper hand 
and the management had to yield to the pressure but that does not mean that this Union 
got extinct. The Union which is duly registered cannot die unless dissolved under 
Sec . 27 or the registeration is cancelled under Sec. 10 or amalgamated under Sec . 24 of 
the Indian Trade Unions Act. The Union was required to file the Membership Register , 
Minutes Book and the Cash Book which thcy have done . The Minutes Buuk , revent that 
it has been curient troin 1964 , There was a general meeting held on 21st November, 
1966 , the minutes of which were recorded and office bearers were elected . Ex. W / 2 is 
a copy of the letter sent to Registrar , Trade Unions. Sri T . C . Kalia , the workman 
concerned , was re- elected as President, Sri B . P . Sharma as General Secretary in place 
of Sri Ramji Singh and Sri Ramji Singh was clected as Secretary in place of Sri Bhal 
Chandra Singh . The management has not disputed the activity of this Union till 1967 and 
the proceedings must be decined to have been genuinely and correctly recorded . The 
capacity of Sri B . P . Sharma to represent as General Secretary is thus established by 
the minutes of this mecting . Under the Constitution , he was elected as a honoured 
member as stated by him in cvidence . Further proceedings of the meeting of Executive 
Committee datcd 9th February , 1967, 18th May , 1967, 10th October , 1967, 18th November , 
1967 and 2nd January , 1968 are disputed and are alleged to have been subsequent inter 
polations. A few witnesses were cxamined by the management to state that no meetings 
were held . The evidence of Sri Ramji Singh (E . W . 2 ) who was the Secretary cannot be 
believed for the simple reason that he had signed the proceedings dated 9th February, 
1967 , 10th October, 1967 and 13th November , 1967, His statement that his signaturcs 
were subsequently obtained on the fabrications made cannot be accepted for the reason 
that in between the mçcting dated 9th February , 1967 and 10th October , 1967 there was 
a meeting dated 15th October 1967 which does not record his attendance and bear his 
signature . This means that he was not present in that meeting. If his signatures had been 
obtaincd subsequently that could have been done for the mecting dated 15th October, 
1967 also . Il shows that these meetings were undoubtedly held , The minutes dated 2nd 
January , 1968 are of 4 general mceting in which new office bearers werc elected . There 
was no change in the office of the President, Vice-President and General Secretary . Only 
the Secretary was changed from Sri Ramji Singh to Sri Jagdish Ram Banga and for Cashier 
from Sri R . B . Banerji to Sri Purosottam Lal. The list of office bearer sseems to have 
been sent to the Registrar, Trade Unions and Ex , W / 17 is a certificate from the Registrar 
showing necessary entry of oflice bearers elected for the year 1966 -67 on 21st November , 
1966 and for the year 1968 on 2nd January , 1968. Membership register shows that the 
membership which was 370 in the year 1964 -65 and 416 in the beginning of 1966 was 
reduced to 50 in the beginning of 1967. This membership further dwindled to 31 only in 
the beginning of 1968 . To this extent the contention of the management is undoubtedly 
correct that the Union lost it s hold to a great extent on the workers of the Colliery . But 
it cannot be said that the Union had dicd out altogether . A number of witnesses came 
to depose about the continuance of the Union, Shri Baij Nath Prsad Sharma ( W . W . 1 ) 
stated how he had been takçn as an honoured member of the Union and has continued to 
be it s General Secrctary. Sri Pursottan Lal Kalia ( W . W . 2 ), the present Cashier in 
place of Sri R . B . Banerji was produced by the management as E . W , 3. Sri Pursottam 
Lal Kalia is a brother of Sri T . C . Kulin and he obtained the Cash Book from Sri 
Bancrji on 3rd February , 1968 giving a receipt (Ex . E / 9 ). He seems to have been over 
zcalous and has taken off page 19 of the Cash Book (Ex. E / 15 ) with the corresponding 
page 32 both being missing. This was done hy Sri Pursottam Lal Kalia in order to 
suppress some entries which may have been made by Sri Banerji but this does not 
detract the value of other evidence in the case . The fact remains that the Union continued 
10 exist in support of which besides the documentary evidence there is Other evidence of 
a number of witnesses, namely 0 . P . Tuknait who was the Vice - Prosident, Pooran , Member 
Executive Committee , Ram Sewak , Lakhan , Burnoo and Jagdish Ram Bunga who is now 
the Secretary of the Union . The evidence at least shows that there is still life in the 
Union which has only about 31 members . Even if the number is small the dispute 


5204. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [PART II 


when it relates to the dismissal of it s President is sufficient enough to be an industrial 
dispute and particularly so when the management admitted that his services had to be 
terminated under pressure of the rival Union . When the management itself recognised 
this Union in prçference to the other Union, it does not lic in the mouth of the management 
to contend that this Union is dead and has lost its representative capacity . Sri B . P , 
Sharma who way evidently elected as Geperal Socretary in November, 1966 till then thero 
WAS no dispute and the Union was admittedly functioning . He continued to be it s General 
Secretary even if the meeting dated 2nd January , 1968 is ignored . In either vicw of the 
matter, Sri B . P . Sharma is competent to represent on behalf of tho Union and the 
Union was competent to raise the dispute regarding the dismissal of it s President. The 
dispute is thus an industrial dispute . 

Sd ./ - G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer . 

10 - 7 - 1968. 


Part of Award 


Sd ./ - G . C . AGARWALA, 

Presiding Officer. 
[No. 5 / 52 /67-LRII. ) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 1st November 1968 
S . O . 4075 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the P . V . Kajora Colliery , Post Office 
Kajoragrarn (Burdwan ) und their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer to said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , con 
stituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDUI E 
Whether the management of P . D . Kajora Colliery , Post Omice Kuoragran , Dis 

trict Burdwan was justified in terminating thc services of S / Shri Jalim 
Harijan and Dila Mia , Pick Miners with effect from the 27th April , 1968 ? 
If not, to what relief arc these two workmen cntitled ? 

[No. 6 /60 /68-LRU . ) 


S . O . 4076 . — -Whereas the Central Government is of opinon that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the East Bastacolla Colliery . Pont 
Ofilce Dhansar (Dhaubad ) and their workmoa in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hcrcto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of sub -section ( 1) 
of the section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
(No. 3 ), Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act , 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of East Bastacolla Colliery , Post Office 

Dhansar ( Dhanbad ) is not allowing their workman Shri Bhuneswar 
Mahato , Timber man , to join duty from the 8th April , 1968 and subse 
quently suspending him for 10 days from the 12th April, 1968 was justi 
fled ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 151 / 68 -LRTT . ) 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5305 


S .O . 4077 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Nowton Chickly Colliery , Post 
Office Parasia , District Chhindwara Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of 
tbe matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , thercfore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clausę ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of the section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, constuted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Nowton Chickli Colliery , Post Office 

Parasia , District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) in dismissing Shri Chhote 
Khan , Cut Machine Helper , vide their letter No. 684 / 128 dated the 23rd 
February , 1968 with effect from the 23rd February 1968 was justified ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman cntitled ? 

[ No . 5 / 40 /68-LRII. ) 
New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 
S . O . 4078. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the Patmohna Colliery, Post Ollice 
Sitarampur, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specificd in 
the Schedule hercto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
Yor adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in cxcrcise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Patmohna Colliery Post Office Sitarampur . District 

Burdwan was justified in directing the workmen employed at 7 and 8 
Inclines of the Colliery to procced on leave without pay for three months 
with effect from the 19th August, 1968 ? If not, to what relief are the 
workmen who refused to proceed on leave entitled ? 

[ No. 1 / 30 / 68 -LRII. ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1968 
S .O . 4079 . - In the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , 
Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 2594 , 
dated the 15th July . 1968, and published in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 Sub 
section (it) at page 3487 
in line 3 , for " Messrs Bengal Coal Company. Post Office Dishergarh , District 

Burdwan " read " Messrs New Beerbhum Coal Company Limited , Post Office 
Barakar, District Burdwan " . 

[No. 6 / 20 /68 -LRII. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 
S . O . 4080. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 of the 
Mines Act, 1932 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri K . B . 
Mazumdar as Inspector of Mines subordinate to the Chief Inspector of Mines and makes 


53c6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 [Part II — 


the following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Employment S . O . No. 531 dated the 2nd March , 1961, namely : - - 
In the said notification the following entry shill be added at the end namely : 
" 112 . Shri K B . Mazumdar “. 

[No . 8 / 104 /67-MI. 1 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy 


(Iepartment of Labour and Employmıcat) 

New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 
S . O . 4081. In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Trı 
bunal, Hyderabad , in the industrial dispute helween the employers in relation to the manage 
ment of M / s. R . B . Seth Shrocram Durgaprasad and Fateh Chand Narsingduss , Sreeram 
nugar , Chipurupalli Tq., Srikakulam District and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 28th October, 1968 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (CENTRAL ) AT HYDERABAD 
PRESENT: 
Sri Mohammad Najmuddin , M .A , B .L ., Chairman , Industrial Tribunal, Andhra 
Pradesh , Hyderabad , 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No 44 OF 1968 
BETWEEN 
Workmen of M / s . R . B . Seth Shreeram Durgaprasad and Fatechand Narsingdass. 
Srceramanagar , Chipurupalli Tq . Srikakulam Dt. 

AND 
Employers of M / s . R . B . Seth Shrceram Durgaprasad and Fatcchand Narsingdass 

Sreeramanagut, Chipurupalli Ty ., Srikakulam Dt. 
APPEARANCES : 

Claimant Ch . Appalaswamy present in person 
Sri Bansilul, Power of Attorney Agent for the Management. 

AWARD 
The Government of Ird in its Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) had, by order No. 35 / 9 /68 -LRI dated 2200 
July 1968, referred this dispute to me for adjudication The issues as per schedule annexed 
to the notification are these : - 
( 1 ) Whether the dismissal of Shri Ch Arpalaswamy, Driver , by the Management 

with effect from 16th November 1967 on grounds of alleged misconduct Wiis 

justificd ? 
( 2 ) If not, to what relier is the workman entitled ? 
2 The employers in this case are R B . Seth Shreeram Durga Prasad and Fatcchand 
Narsingdas They are engaged in ore mining operations Lorries are employed for trans 
porting the ore . One of the lories is A . P . S No. 149 One of the two drivers of that 
lorry was Ch . Appalaswamy who is the claimant in this case On 25th October 1967 
Anpalaswamy was driving the lois duu my the course of duty . While so , the crown wheel 
and pinion of the vehicle got damaged. The Management charged Appalaswany with 
" wilful act of damaging the Company s property " . By order dated 13th Noveinber 1967 
he was dismissed from service with cffect from 16th November. Claimant Appalaswamy 
filed clain statement to say that his dismissal from service was not justified and that theie 
fore he should be restored to employment with retrospective effect with back wages . 

3 The order by which Appalaswamy was dismissed from service sels out other instances 
of misconduct on his part commencing from March 1963. In the counterfiled by the 
Management attention is drawn to tho earlier instances of misconduct, their number being 
seven . It is stated that warnings given and punishments imposed did not help Appalaswamy 
to mend his ways and that " finally on 25th October , 1967 ho damaged the crown pinion 
of A . P .S . 149 which he drove recklessly " It is stated that as he had failed to submit 
an etplanation in respect of the proposed punishment of dismissal, he was dismissed front 


Şec. 3 (ii ) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5307 


service. It is further stated that if Appalaswamy is restored to employment, it would 
lead to " disharmony in industrial relations and thereforç there was no option except to 
dismiss the delinquent worker " Lastly , the Tribunal is called upon to " appreciato our 
dispassionate dealing with the matter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " . 


16 


4 . Bansilal Gulabchand Racholia represented the Management. He is the Power of 
Attorney Agent for the Company. He examined himself alone as M . W . 1 . The claimant 
Appalaswamy represented himself , and cxamined himself alone as W . W . 1 . Exs. Mi to M4 
were marked on the side of the Management. Any documents were not marked on the 
side of the claimants. 

5 . On a careful consideration of the evidence in the case , I would say at once that the 
dismissal of Appalaswamy by the Management by order dated 13th November 1967 was 
tot justified and that therefore he should be put back into employment with retrospective 
cffcct with the back wages and attendant benefits . Admittedly , the Management did not 
hold any domestic enquiry in this case . Indeed , there was no enquiry of any sort. This 
fact is admitted by M . W . 1 , By Ex. M2 dated 9th November 1967 the Garage Forcman 
reported that the crown pinion of the lorry A . P .S . 149 " was spoiled " at Perapi road after 
the second trip , and requested that necessary action may be taken because the parts " were 
spoiled due to rash and negligent driving" . Thereupon the Management served upon 
Appalaswamy the charge memo Ex. M3 dated 11th November 1967 . It is as follows :-- 
It is reported that Jue to your rash and negligent driving on 25th October , 1967 , 

the crown wheel and pinion of APS 149 were damaged beyond repairs. This 
is a wilful act of damaging the Company s property , and so , you are asked 

to submit your written explanation within 24 hours to this office . 
The next document we have is Ex . Mi dated 15th November , 1967 by which the dis 
missal of Appalaswamy was ordered with effect from 16th . I have already referred to 
this document. Seven earlier instances of misconducts are set out therein . The opening 
paragraph in Ex . Mi is as follows : 
In spite of commissions of major misconducts during the last 4 - 5 years beginning 

from 1963, you were retained by the Management in service by giving you 
some human stic consideration . Even after the last warning dated 4 / 5 July . 
1965, you have been continuing to be guilty of major misconduct till the 
end of October , 1967 , when the crown pinion of the vehicle was damaged 
and spoiled by you . Full and fair opportunity was given to you for mending 

your bchaviour. But you have failed to do so . 
The next paragraph in Ex. M1, that being the operative portion of the order, is this : - - 
Now , in view of recurrences of major misconducts committed by you till 25th 

October , 1967 , you are dismissed from the service of the concern from 16th 

November, 1967. 
The third and last paragraph in Ex. Mi directs Appalaswamy to receive payment of what 
is due to him from the Cash Office of the Company . 

6 . M . W . 1 stated that the dismissal of Appaluswamy as per Ex . MI was not only for 
the misconduct in connection with the damage to the crown wheel and pinion but also 
for the carlier misconducts . Even without M . W . I saying so , the same is clear from the 
document itself. In fact it is seen from paragraph 1 in Ex. M1 that it was almost entirely 
for thc reason of the earlier misconducts that Appalaswamy was dismissed from servicc 
because it is stated there that he had been continuing to be guilty of major misconducts 
till the end of October 1967 and that he had not learnt to mend his ways . It seems as if 
the damage that occurred to the crown wheel and pinion on 25th October 1967 is incident 
ally referred to in Ex. M1, M . W . I admitted at the end of cross -examination that Appala 
swamy bad either been warned or was punished for previous misconducts . It means that 
whatover be the earlier instances of misconduct on the part of , Appalaswamy, the subject 
in tach such instances had been closed and given a finality either by a warning or by 
punishment depending upon the nature of the misconduct. He cannot once again be 
punished for the same. The spectre of the past misconducts that had been laid to rest by 
warning or punishment, cannot be resurrected for the purpose of basing the action of dis 
nissal thereon . That being so , any reference in Ex. Mi to the earlier instances of mis 
conduct was wholly irrelevant and unwarranted . But, on the other hand , what the Manage 
ment did was to reply upon the earlier instances of misconduct to justify its action in 
dismissing Appalaswamy from service . 

7 . Excluding from consideration the earlier instances of misconduct, what remains to 
be seen is whether any misconduct on the part of Appalaswamy in relation to the damage 
to the crown wheel and pinion had been proved. Before the charge of misconduct in this 
itopect can be said to have been brought home to Appalaswamy, the Management should 
prove that the damage to the crown wheat and pinion was caused by any wilful act or 
negligence on his part . M . W . 1 himself does not know anything about this aspect of the 


303 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (Part II 


matter. He said in cross -cxamination that he was pot connected with the Transport 
Dopartment of the Company and that he does not know in what manner Appalaswamy is 
said to have caused the damage . The witness said that except the report of the Garage 
Forcman as per Ex . M2 there is no other appraisal in respect of the damage to tho crown 
whcol and pinion . Turning to Ex M2 which is the report of the Garage Forcman , we 
have only the statement therein that the crown wheel and pinion was spoiled on the Porapi 
road and that the same was owing to rash and negligent driving. It is wholly pucrilo to 
base upon the above statement of the Garage Foreman a charge of misconduct against 
Appalaswamy in respect of the damage to the crown wheel and pinion . It was not as if 
the Garage Foreman way in the vehicle at the time the damage occurred to the part in 
question , The best that the Garage Foreman could say was that damage had occurred to the 
part in question, but it was wholly incompetent on his part to procced further and say 
that it was due to rash and negligent driving on the port of Appalaswamy. In that it is 
solely based upon the report of the Garage Foreman, the charge memo Ex, M3 would be 
equally puerile . It is no doubt true, and the same is admitted by W . W . 1 , that thero was 
damage to the crown wheel and pinion , but it would be wholly wrong to say that that 
damage was " wilful act of damaging the Company s property " by Appalaswamy 25 stated 
in the charge memo Ex . M3. 

8 . The Company are mine owners. The lorries that carry the ore have to pass gener 
ally over rough ground with frequent jolting as a result of which the wear and tear on 
the parts is heavy and rapid . Appalaswamy ( W . W . 1 ) stated from the witness box that 
oven fiftcen days prior to the incident in question he had brought to the notice of the 
Garage Foreman that the crown wheel and pinion was giving out unusual sounds and bad 
requested him to look into the matter . The witaçgs said that the Garage Format replied 
that he had other work on hand and that there was no urgency about what he ( Appala 
swamy) bąd reported to him and that he could go on plying the vehicle. There was no 
cross -examination of this witness, and Mr. Bansilal said that there was no cross -examiox 
tion . M . W . 1 (Bansilal ) said that he did not know if Appalaswamy had reported es above 
to the Garage Foreman and if the letter had replied as aforesaid . I see no reason why 
I should not accept the testimony of W . W . 1, in this behalf. We bave Ex. M4 dated 16th 
November 1967 which is the explanation from Appalaswamy addressed to the Management 
in which it is pointed out that the driver had brought to the notice of the Garago Foreman 
the trouble with the part in question even Afteen days prior to the damage actually 
occurring, Clearly , there was no fault on the part of driver Appalaswamy. Even a fortnight 
prior to the incident he had brought to the notice of the Garage Foreman that something 
would seem to be wrong with the part, viz ., the crown wheel and pinion . It mean that 
Appalaswamy was careful to see that the Company s property was not damaged by not 
being attended to in time. Nearly fifteen days elapsed thereafter , and meanwhile the lorry 
A . P . S . 149 was carrying its daily heavy loads subjecting tho part, crown wheel and pinion , 
to further deterioration . If finally on 25th October 1967 the par crown whcel and pipioa , 
gavo way as a result of being damaged when the lorry was carrying a load , no fault will 
le with the driver . It is absurd to say that there was either negligent driving or that there 
was any wilful act of damaging the Company s property on the part of the driver. There 
is absolutely no evidence , much less proof, that Appalaswamy was either guilty of negligent 
driving or that he was guilty of any wllful act of damaging the Company s property . 


9 . It is stated in the counter of the Monagement that Appalaswamy had failed to submit 
his explanation to the charge memo, W . W . 1 testifted that he did submit his explanation 
two days after he received the charge memo and that he had stated in 
that explanation that he had already reported about the matter to the Garage 
Foreman , that there was no wilful act of damaging on his part and that he had requested 
therein that an enquiry may be held . M . W . 1 stated that he did not know if Appalaswamy 
had sent an explanation to the charge memo and that he did not also know if a fortnight 
prior to the incident in question Appalaswamy had reported to the Garage Foreman that 
there was something wrong with the part in question . There is Ex , M4 dated 16th November 
1967 which is an explanation submitted by Appalaswamy to the Management on the day 
following the order of dismissal Ex , MI dated 15th November , Appalaswamy stated in 
Ex , M4 that he had already submitted an explanation setting out therein all the facts , 
particularly the fact that fifteen days prior to the damage to the part he had intimated to 
the Garage Foreman about the defective naturo of the part, but that however the Garage 
Foreman bad asked him to go ahead with driving the vehicle . Ex. M1 which is the order 
of dismissal does not say that Appalaswamy had failed to submit an explanation to the 
charge memo. I have no doubt that he should have submitted his explanation. But quite 
clearly the Management had ignored it because it had , I have no doubt, decided to dismiss 
him for the reason of the earlier misconducts . As I said , there was no domestic enquiry , 
nor indeed an enquiry of any sort. Any statement of Appalaswamy was not received or 
recorded . He was not given an opportunity to explain his position at any such enquiry , 
It is absurd to say that the damage to the part , crowd wheel and pinion , was due to his 
negligence or due to any wilful act on his part. I am clear that the dismissal of Appala 
swamy as per order Ex. M1 dated 15th November 1967 was a mala fide act. That order 


Sec . 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 / KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


cannot for a moment be sustained and there can be no hesitation in holding that the dia 
misal of Appalaswamy was not justified . 

10 . In the result my finding under the two issues as per schedule annexed to tho poti 
fication is that the dismissal of Ch . Appalaswamy with effect from 16th November 1967 was 
not justified , and it is directed that he shall be taken back into employment with retrospec 
tive cacct with back wages and attendant benefits. 

AWARD pagscd accordingly . 
Given under my hand and the seal of the Tribunal, this the 18th day of October, 1968. 

( Sd.) M . NAJMUDDIN , Industrial Tribunal. 


APPENDLX OF EVIDENCE 

Witnesses examined for 
Workman : 

Employors : 
W . W . 1 : Cz , APPALASWAMY. 

M . W . 1 : BANSILAL GULABCHAND . 
Documents exhibited for Workmen 

NIL 

Documents exhibited for Employers 
Ex, M1: Order of dismissal dated 15th November , 1967 issued by the Management to 
Sri Ch . Appalaswamy, claimant. 

Ei. M2: Roport dated 9th November, 1967 of the Garago Foreman to tho Group Agont 
of the Company complaining that the vehicle s crown wheel and pinion was spoilod . 

Ez. 13: Memo dated 11th November, 1967 of Management issuod to Ch . Appalaswamy 
calling explanation to the spoiling of vehicle s crown whcel and pinion due to his negligence . 

Ex. M4 : Explanation of Ch . Appalaswamy dated 16th November, 1967 sont to the 
Management, 

(Sd .) M . NAJMUDDIN , Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. 35 /9 /68-LRI.] 
New Delhi, the 4th November 1968 


S . O . 4082 - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central Govorn 
mcat Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the management of Pounia Manganeso Mines of M / s . Rajaramka Brotbon 
(Private Limited , Post Offico Tumsar and their workmen , which was received by tho 
Contral Government on the 29th October, 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

Dated September 26 , 1968 
PRBSRNT: 
Sri G . C . Agarwala . —- Presiding Officer . 

CASE No. CGIT /LC (R ) ( 42 ) of 1968 
PARTIAS: 
Employers in relation to the management of Pounia Manganese Mincs of M / s . 

Rajaramka Brothers ( Private ) Limited , Post Office Tumsar (Mabarastra 
Stato ) . 

Versus 


Its workmen represented through the General Secretary , Samyukta Khadan Mazdoor 

Sangh , P . O . Tirodi, District Balaghat ( M . P . ) . 


APPBALANCES : 

For employers. — None. 
For workmen .. Sri K . Nutneshwar, Secretary of the Union . 


5310 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16, 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II - 


INDUSTRY: Manganese Mine. 

DISTRICT : Tumsar ( M .Ş .) . 

AWARD 
By Notification No. 35 / 15 / 68- LRI dated 5th July , 1968 , the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) , Government 
of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the schedule to the order of 
reference to this Tribunal, for adjudication : 

MATTER OF DISPUTE 
1 . Whether the action of the management of Pounia Manganese mines in terminating 

the services of Shri Shyamlal Banchor, Surveyor by their notice dated the 

27th September, 1967 was justified ? 
2. If not, to what relief is the said workman entitled ? 
2 . After the reference when no statement of claim were recoived notices were issued 
by the Tribunol to the parties to file written statements . Union s statement of claim was 
received and on a telephonic request on bchalf of the employers on the date fixed which 
Was 19th August, 1968 , time was given to employers to filo such statement of claim on 
26th August, 1968. This was not done but employers application was received for time. 
Ordering the case to proceed cxparte a date had , however, been given ixing 26th September , 
1968. Copy of the order was communicated to the employers . Even then , no statement 
of claim was received , but only a frivolous application was received requesting the Tritunal 
to send statement of claim which may have been filed on behalf of Sri Shyam Lal Bagchor. 
The employers had to file their own statement of claim in the beginning . In the absence 
of appcarance of the employers or any statemont of claim there was no option but to 
proceed exparte under Rule 22 of I.D . ( Central ) Rules as if thợ employers were present. 

3 . It appears that the services of the workman concerned , Sri Shyam Lal, were terminated 
abruptly without assigning any reason . The Secretary of the Union , Samyukta Khadan 
Mazdoor Sangh , Sri K . Nutneshwar, examined himself and filed notice of discharge. The 
notice starts by saying " after having given thorough thought to the present working and 
the scopo for the future working, we are reluctantly constrained to take decision to termin 
ate your services " . Evidently , his services have been terminated by way of retrenchment 
for which the formalities of retrenchment as required by Sec . 25 - F and the rules were not 
followed . Compensation also was not offered for the entire length of service and in the 
termination order only one month s notice was given . A statement of account was pre 
pared by the management and given to worker ( Ex . W / 2 ) which shows that he had been 
în service froni 28th November , 1956 and thus had a service in his credit of over 10 years 
The action of the management consequently in terminating services of the workman was 
evidently unjustified . 


Decision : - - 

The first issue under reference is held in negative . The services of Sri Shyam Lal were 
torminated unjustifiably with cffcct from 27th November, 1967. He is entitled to be re 
instated with back wages together with attendant benefits . The Union will be entitled to 
Rs. 50 / . As costs of proceedings from the management. 

(Sd .) O . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer. 
(No. 35 / 15 /68-LRI. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st November 1968 
S . O . 4083, Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission Project, Ahmedabad and their workmen in respect of the matters speci 
fied in the Schedulc hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute 
for adjudication ; 

Now , therofore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A , and clauso ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , tho Centrat 
Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal, with Shri I. G . Thakore as Presid 
iag Officer , with Headquarters at Ahmedabad and refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the said Tribunal. 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5311 


SCHEDULE 
Whether Shri Hukam Singh Ladharam , Ex-Cementing Mechanic (Sr .) of Oil and 

Natural Gas Commission Project at Ahmedabad is entitled for re - instate 
ment with full back wages and continuity of service ? If so , what directions 
are essential to that end ? 

[No. 25 / 2 /68- LRI. ] 


New Delhi, the 7th November 1968 


S . O . 4084. -_ Whercus an industrial dispute exists between the management of Messrs. 
Bikaner Gypsums Limited, Bikaner (hereinafter referred to as the said Company ) and 
their workmen represented by the Gypsum Mine Workers Union , Bikaner (hereinafter 
referred to as the Union ) ; 


And whereas the said company and the Union have , by a written agreement, in pursu 
anco of the provisions of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration of the person mentione , 
therein , and a copy of the said Arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central 
Government; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes 
the saill arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 17th October. 1968 . 


AGREEMENT 


(Under Section 10 -A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

BETWEEN 
Name of parties: 
Rrima scoting Employers — Shri II. Choudhury, Agent, 

M /s. Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Sadul Club Building , Bikaner, 
Representing Workmen . - Shri V . N . Gupta , Secretary, Gypsum Mint Workers Union , 

19 , Sethia Quarters, Bikaner, 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Industrial Dispute to the 
arbitration of Shri R . P . Bartaria , Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ) , Ajmer. 


(i) Specific matter in dispute : 
“ Whether the action of the management of M / s. Bikaner Gypsums Ltd ., Bikaner 

in superanduating Shri Lachoo , Sweeper , in their Jamsar Mines w2.f. 2nd 
February , 1968 was legal and justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? " 


( ii ) Details of the parties to the disputes including the name and address of the Estab 

lishment or Undertaling involved : 
Agent , Bikaner Gypsums Limited , Bikaner and Shri Lachoo , Sweeper Jamsar Mines 

through the Secretary , Gypsum Mine Workers Union as mentioned above . 


( iii ) Name of the Union , if any, representing the workman in question : 

Gypsum Mine Workers Union , 19 , Sethia Quarters, Bikaner. 


( iv ) Total number of workinen employed in the Undertaking affected : 

394 and Village Piece Workers about 172 . 


( v ) Estimated number of workinen affected or likely to be affected by the dispute : 

NIL . 
We further agree that the decision of the Arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The Arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 3 months or within such 
further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the 


5312 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [Part II — 


award is not made within the period aforementioned , the reference to arbitration shall 
stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate for arbitration . 

Signature of the parties 

1. Sd / - H . CHOUDHURY, 
Represcating Employer 

2 . Sd / - V . N . GUTIA, 

Representing Workmen. 
Witnesses : 
1. Sd / - Tlegible 
2 . Sd / - Illegible 
13 - 9 

[No. 24 /20 / 68-LRI.] 


New Delhi, the 8th November 1968 
9 . O . 4085 . - Whereas an application , under the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), specified in the schedulo hereto annexed , is pending before the Labour Court, Delhi; 

And whereas for the ends of justice and convenience of parties, the said application 
should bo disposed of without delay. 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1) of soction 33B 
of thc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Governmont hereby with 
draws the prococdings in relation to the said application pending before the Labour Court, 
Delhi, and transfers the same to the Labour Court No. 2 , Bombay constituted by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 1970 dated the 28th 
May, 1968, for the disposal of the proceedings and directs that the said court shall proceed 
with the said application from the stago at which it is transferred and dispose of the samo 
according to Law . 


SCHEDULE 


S. No. 


Case No. 


Name of the applicant 


Remarks 


L . C . A . No. 522 of 
1961 ( 3 of 1966) 


Shri H . R . Dharam 
Singh . 


[No. 2 / 29 /68 - LRIII.) 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 12th November, 1968 
S . O . 4086 . - Whereas an industrial dispute cxists between the employers in relation 
to the East Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District 
Dhanbad, and their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Post Office 
Dhanbad , District Dhanbad ; 

And whereas the said employers and the workmen have by a written agreement , in 
pursuance of the provision of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , referred the said dispute to arbitration by the person specified 
thercia , and a copy of the said arbitration agrecincnt has been forwarded to tho Central 
Government : 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section ( 3 ) of section 10A of 
the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes 
the sald arbitration agreement , which was received by it on the 23rd October , 1968 , 


SEÇ. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR FIKA 25, 1890 


5313 


FORM C 
( See Rule 7 ) 

AGREEMENT 
(Under Sec. 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

BETWEEN 
The Employers in relation to East Basuria Colliery of M /s. East Basuria Colliory Co . 
Pr . Ltd ., P . O . Kusunda , Dist. Dhanbad , 

AND 
Their Workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Sangh (INTUC ) , Luby Circular 
Road , Dhanbad , 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following Ladustrial Dispute to the 
arbitration of Shn O . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central ) , New Delhi. 
1 . Specific matter in dispute : 

" Whether the present economic con 
dition of the Company permits the 
payment of Dearness Allowanco to their 
workmen as per recommendations of the 
Coal Wage Board ? If so , what should 

be the quantum of Dearness Allowance ." 
2 . Details of the parties to the dispute Employers of East Basuria Colliery of 

including the name and address of the the East Basuria Colllery Co . Pr . Ltd ., 
establishment or undertaking involved : P . O . Kuşunda; Dist. Dhanbad on tho 

one hand and the workmcn of the said 

East Basuria Collicry on are other hand 
3 . Name of the Union, if any, represent Colliery Mazdoor Sangh ) : Regd . No. 
ing the workmen in question : 

491, Affiliated to INTUC ) Luby Cir 

cular Road , Dhanbad , 
4 . Total Number of workmço employed in 784 

the undertaking Affected : 
5 . Estimated number of workmen affoct 784 

ed or likely to be affected by the 

dispute : 
Representing the Employers 

Represerting the Workmen 
( Sd / - ) H . CHANCHANI, 

( Sd . /- ) SHANKAR Bose , 
Secretary 

Secretary , 
The East Basuria Colliery 

Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
Co. Pr. Ltd ., 
Dated : 10th October , 1968. 
Witness : ( 1 ) K . A . SANGHJI 
( 2 ) H . K . BANERJJ 

[No. 2 / 149/68 -LRIT.) 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd November 1968 
8 .0 . 4087. - In pursuance of clause (c) of sub -section (1) of Section 21, read with 
clause ( b ) of sub -section (2 ) and sub -section ( 3 ) of section 25 of the State Bank of India 
Act, 1955 (23 of 1955) , the Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank 
of India , hereby nominates Shri N . P . Sen , Principal, Administrative Staff College of 

dia , Bella Vista , Hyderabad as a member of the Hyderabad Local Board of the Stato 
Rank of India in the vacancy caused by the resignation of Shri R . L . Gupta , 

[No. F . 8 / 134 /68 -SB . ] 
New Delhi, the 6th November 1968 
8 . 0 . 4088 . — In pursuance of the provisions of clause (d ) of sub -section (i) of Section 
6 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act , 1961 (47 of 1961) , the Central Govern 
ment, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby re-nominates Shri Pabitra 
Kumar Ghosh , Senior Partner of Messrs, P . K . Ghosh and Co., P - 39 , Prinsep Street, 
Calcutta - 13 , as a director of the Deposit Insurance Corporation for a period of two years 
with effect from the 1st January , 1969. 

[No. F .10 /12/ 68-SB. ] 


5314 


New Delhi , the 7th November 1968 
S . O . 4089. - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the Ist November, 1968 . 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


$2,20,48,000 

8 ,78 , 000 


3 ,84 ,000 


Capital Paid up . . . . . . . . 5000300 ,000 Notes . . . . . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . . . . 
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 80 ,00 ,00,000 Small Coin . . . . . . 

· Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund . 143,00,00 ,000 (a ) Internal . . . 

(6 ) External . . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills . 
NationalAgricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 

33,00 ,00 ,000 Balances Held Abroad * . . . . 

Investments * * . . . . . 
National lodustrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 55, 00 , 00 ,000 Loans and Advances to : - . 

(1) Central Government . . 

( 11) State Goveriments @ . . 
Deposits . 

Loans and Advances to : 
( a ) Government 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Bankst 
(Ü ) State Co - operative Banksti 
( ) Others . . . . . 


THEGAZETTHOFINDIA:NOVEMBER16,1968/KARTIKA25,1890(PARTII- 


. 
. 


. 
. 


230,65 ,26 ,000 
. 103, 20, 05 ,000 
. 177,78,60 ,000 


. 


. 


. 
. 


58,69,14 ,000 


. 


. 


13 , 33 ,77 , 000 
209 ,71,51,000 

3 ,46 ,02 ,000 


. 


. 


. 


1 


CentralGovemment 
(0 ) Sute Governments 
(b ) Banks : 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


31, 6445,000 
14 ,93,61,000 


Scheduled Commercial Banks . . 
(5 ) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . 


. 
. 


8 ,53,61,000 


. $8 , 53 ,87 ,000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricul 

tural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund : - 
. 10 36,37,000 , 

(a ) Loans and Advances to : 

State Governments . . . . 

(i ) State Co-operative Banks . . . . . 
. 148,67,82,000 (i ) Central Land Mortgage Barks . . . . 
. 6,85,09 ,000 (6) Investmentin Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National AgriculturalCredit (Sta 

bilisation ) Fund 
. 64,74,000 Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks 
. 16 , 13 ,000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Industrial 

Credit (Long Term Operacions) Fund : 
. 331,71,56,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 
. 35,88,68 ,000 (b) Investment in bonds/ debentures issued by the Develop 

ment Bank . . . . . 


5 , 32975 ,000 


( ) Non -Scheduled State Co -operative Banks . 
( io ) Other Banks . . . . . . 


(0) Others 
Bills Payable 


0 , 26 ,71,000 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


Sec.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER16,1968/KARTIKA25,1890 


. 


Other Liabilities 


, 


Other A : sts 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


35 ,51,88 , 000 


, , 47 ,56 , 20 ,000 
Rupees · 956 ,40,46 ,000 


Rupees 


, 


956 ,40 ,45 ,000 


- 


Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities . 
* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Operations ) Fund . 
Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund , but including temporary overdrafts to State 

Governments . 
tIncludes Rs . 9 , 11,08 ,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
+ Excluding Loans and Adrances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credi 
(Stabilisation Fund . 


Dated the oth day of November , 1968 . 


$315 


An Account purwant to tfte Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the Ist day of Nopember, 1968 . 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


5316 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Notes in circulation . · · · 


. 
· 3166 , 32, 18,000 


Gold Coin and Buſion : 

(a ) Held in India 
(6) Held outside India . 
Foreign Securities . . 


115 ,89,25,000 


. 
. 


. 
. 


TOTAL Notes issued 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


3218 , 52 ,66 , 000 


226 ,42,00 ,000 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


18 


342, 31, 25 , 000 

83 , 16 ,73, 000 
2793,04 ,68, 000 


. 


Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other com 
mercial paper . 

TOTAL ASSETS 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:NOVEMBER16,1968/KARTIKA25,1890PART1 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


3218 ,52 ,66 ,000 


3218 ,52,66, 000 


(Sd.) L . K . JHA, 

Governor. 

[No. F . 34 )-BC /68.1 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Uoder Secy . 


Dated the 6th day of November 1958 


Szc. 3 ( li ) ] THI GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARIIKA 25, 1890 


5317 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- LAX 
New Delhi, the 29th October 1968 


S . O . 4090 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b ) of sub - section (2 ) of 
Section ROG of the income-tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby 
notifies the linder-mentioned temple to be a place of public worship of renown thiough 
out the State of Madras for the purpose of the said Section . 
Sri Subramaniyaswamy Devasthanam , Triuttani. 

[No. 108 – F . No. 16 / 39 / 68 -IT ( AT ) | 

L . N . GUPTA , Under Secy 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCONE- TAX 

New Delhi, the 29th October , 1968 
S . O . 4091, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 23) of section 10 or 
the Income-tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby specifies 
*Badninton as one of the games for the purposes of the said gub -section 

[No 109- - F . No. 37 1 /08IT ( AT) I 

J. C . KALRA , Dy. Secy 


(Dopartmont of Revenue and Insurance ) 

CORRIGENDA 


INCOME- TAX 
New Delhi, the 310 October 1968 


8 . 0 . 4092 . In the notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Finance (De 
partment of Revenue & Insurance ) No . 9 . 0 . 3759 , date.1 the 12th September 1967 published in 
Part II Section 3 sub - section ( il) of the Gazette of India dared the 21st October, 1967 at pages 
3949 to 4003. 


( 1) On page 3950 – 

(i) in serial N ). I, culum i 2 for " fukinee lu " real " Ankineedu " 

( ii ) in serialNo. 33, column 2 for " Sarawaji" read “ Sarawji s 
(2 ) On page 3951 — 

(1) in serial no 57 , culuinn 2 for “ Balvnath " read " Baidyanath " 

( ii ) in serial 110 . 62, colum i 2 for " C2110aga " rent " Chaib19d" 
(3) on page 3952 — 

( i) in serial no . 7 ), culumns for " 3, 794 real " 3 , 744 Indin Income 


6,28 , 541 " 
(iz) in serial 016). 80 wlain ? 5 for " 51, 574 

- - - - - 

1 , 73 , 090 
(ii ) in scriul no. 81, column 5 for " 2, 43, 966 


- 


1 . 28 , 541 Tural World Income" 
11/ " 51,594 Indian Income 

- - - - - - - - - - 

1,73,090 Total World Income" 
redd " 2 ,43, 966 Indian Income 


2 ,57,905" 2 ,57 , 905 Total World Income 
( iv ) in serial no . 82 , column 2 for " N . C . Road " read " M . G . Road " 
(v) in serial no . 96 column 5 for $ 6262 read " 6 ,262 Indian Income 

1, 11,670 " 1,11,670 Total World Income" 


$318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 [PART II. 


( 4 ) on page 3953 — 
in gorial no. 101, columa s for " 44 ,975 

1,02 ,196 " 
(it) in serial no. 102 , column 5 for " 1,05 ,403 


read " 44, 975 Indian Income 

1,02 , 196 Total World Income" 
read " 1, 05, 403 Indian Income 

1,05 ,403 Total World Income" 
read " 2, 200 Indian Income 


1,05,403 " 
( iii ) in serialno . 103, column 5 for " 2 ,200 


1,00 , 720" 

1, 00 ,720 Total World Income. 
(iv) in serial no . 114 , column 5 for " 3, 55 ,130" read " 4,55 ,130 " 
15) on page 3994 -- 

(1) in serial no. 116 , column 2 for " St. Mary in House " read " St. Mary Axe " 
( it ) in serial no. 126 , column 2 for " J. B . Stedart” read " J, B , Stowart" 
( iii ) in serial no. 127 , column 2 for " J. B . A . Turnwull " read " J. B . A . Turnbull " 
( iv ) in serial no. 132 , column 3 for " 1962- 63 " read " Individual 


6 ) on page 3955 – 

(i) in serial no. 138 , column 2 for " Gammen " read " Gammon " 
( 11 ) in serial no. 145 , column 2 for “ Menon " read "Memon " 
(iii) in serial no . 150, column 5 for " 1,49,678 read " 1,49,678 Indian Income 


IN 


1, 77,623" 


1,77 ,623 Total World Income" 
(iv ) in serlel no . 155 , column 5 for " 4,499 read “ 4 ,499 Indian Income 

1, 00 ,479 " 

1, 00 ,479 Total World Income" 
(7) on page 3956 – 
(1) in serial no . 166 , column 5 for " 17 ,500 read " 17,500 

1 , 13 , 123" 

1,23, 123 " 
( 8 ) on page 3957 – 

(1) in serial no . 192 , coluni 2 for " Etate" read " Estate " 
( ii ) in serial no . 192 , column 5 for " 1,89,729" read " 1,89,739" 
( 111 ) in serial no . 194 , column 5 for " 2 , 10 ,749 " read " 2 ,10 ,479" 
( iv ) in serial no . 199, coluinn 4 for " 1974-65" rend " 1964 -65"} 

(u ) in serial no. 204 , column 2 for " Napeansca , Road " read " Napean - Sea Road " 
(9 ) on page 3958 – 

(1) in serial no . 217, column 2 for “ Ardeshri" read " Ardeshir " 
( ii) in serial no . 221, colunn 2 for " Exchange, Building" read " Exchange Building " 
( iii ) in serial no . 226 , column 2 for " Bhawan Chowpatty " read " Bhawan , Chowpatty " 

( iv) in serial no. 227 , column 2 for " Mansion 40 ” read " Mansion , 40 ," 
( 10 ) on page 3959 – 

in serial no . 248, column 4 for " 1965-66 " read " 1964- 65 " 
(it) in serial no. 260 , column 2 for " Sanch Gally " read " Sanclia Galli " 


( II ) on page 3960 

(i) in serial no. 278 , column 2 for “ Geurji , Jahangir " road " Courji Jahangir" 
(n ) in serial no . 285, column 2 for " Gopal road " Gopal” 
(ii ) in serial no . 286 , column 2 for " Podar" road " Peddar " 
(10 ) in serial no . 290 , column 2 for " Kapoor , (HUR )” read " Kapoor " 
(v ) in serial no. 293 , column 2 for " House Poddar " road " Houso, Peddar " 
(vi) in serial no. 299 , polumn z for " Kanga High Court " road " Kangu, High Court": 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1969/KARTİKA 25, 1890 


5319 


= 


= 


( 12 ) on page 3961 – 

(1) in serial no . 309, column 2 for " Miahindra " read " Mahindra" 
( 11) in serial no . 303 , column 2 for " Gatewgay" read " Gateway " 
(iit ) in serial no . 333 , column 2 for “ Khusha- daq" read " Khushaldas " 

( iv ) in serial no. 334 , column 2 for " Krishan " read “ Krishna" 
( 13 ) on page 3962 – 

(i) in serial no . 344, column 2 for " Romal” read " Pomal" 
( ii ) in serial no . 349 , column 2 for " Poldar " read " Peddar" 


(14 ) on page 3963 — 

( ) in serialno . 385, column 2 for " Exchange, Bldg." read “ Exchange Bldg " . 
( 13) on page 3964 – 

1 in serial no . 405 , column 2 for " A . Maskati" toad " A , Maskati” 
(11 ) in serialno. 412, column 2 for “ Galli Bombay " read " Galli, Bombay" 
( iii ) in serial no. 418 , column 2 for “ Merchant, Manor" read “ Merchant Manor" 
(iv ) in serial no . 418 , column 2 for "Mahin ” read " Mahim " 

(v ) in serialno . 419 , column 2 for “ Warden , Road ” road " Warden Road " 
( 16 ) on page 3905 – 

(1) in serial no . 428 , column 2 for " Pratap Tobacco " read " Pratap , Tobacco " 
( it) in serial no. 434 , column 2 for " Mohinder " road "Mehinder " 
( iii) lo serial no . 435, column 2 for " Babu -" road " Balu -" 
(iv ) la serial no . 440 , column 2 for " Khatan Lexml" road " Khatau , Laxml" 

(v) in gorialno . 445 , coluinn 2 for “ Darabshıw , Houso" road " Darabshaw House " 
(vi) in serial no . 146 , colano a for " Khatan Lıxmı" road " Khaau , Laxmi" 

(vii) in serial no . 447 . columan a for " Khatan Lumi" road " Khatau , Laxmi" 
( 17 ) on page 3966 -- 

(1) in serial no . 455, column 2 for " Rly ," read " Rly." 
( 11) lo serlal no . 457 , column 2 for " Holock , Larsen " road " Holock Larsen " 
(iil ) la serial no . 462 , colunan a for “ Bombaay " read “ Bombay " 
( iv ) in serial no. 463, column 2 for " Mils " read " Mills" 
(v) in serial no . 468 , column 2 for “ Kunj Tejpal” read " Kunj, Topal" 
( vi) in serial no. 473 , column 2 for " Chaturbhuj Tobacco " road " Chaturbhuj, Tobacco " 
(oni ) in serial no. 476 , column 2 for Mheshwari Ray" road Maheshwari, Raj" 
(vii) in serial no . 477, column 2 for “ Laxmi Building , Ballardo" read " Laxmi Building , Bal 

lard " 
(18 ) on pago 3967 – 

(1) in serial no . 484, column 2 for " Building Dolisb " read " Building, Delish " 
(11) in gorlal 00 . 487, column 2 for " Jayantia " read " Jayantllal " 
(ii) in serial no . 488 , columns for “ 1,01,573 " road " 1,01, 675" 
(iv ) in serial no . 489 , column 1 for " Kalyangi ” read “ Kalyanji ” . 
(v ) in serial no . 495 , column a for “ Nandal , Haridas " read " Nandlal Haridas ," 

(vi) in serial no . 502 , column 2 for “ Dubash Darabshaw " road " Dubagh , Darabshaw 
(19) ☺ on page 3968 

*) in serial 00 . 509, column 2 for " Rasiklal, R ." raad " Rasiklal R ." 
(ii) in serial no . 511 , column 2 for “ Sevantilal , Mansukhlal” read “ SevantilalMangukblog 
(iii) in serial no . 512, column 2 for " Morarji Şcindla " road " Morarji , Scindia " 
( iv ) in serial no . 513, column 2 for " Morarji Scindia " road " Morarji, Scindia " 

(u ) in serial no . 522, column 2 for " Buullding " road " Building " 
(iv) in serialno .526 , columa 4 for " 1963 - 64 " read “ 1964-65 " . 


5320 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 (Part II 


( 20) on page 3969 

(i) in serial no. 532 , column 2 for " J. K . " read " J . K .," 
( 11) In 320111n ) . 557 ,cana2 for " Guluna " rand " Golcha ," 


HI) on pege 3970 – 

(i) in gerial no . 57) , c) ! 107 2 for " Rinilal ” port " Rohanlal ” 


( 22 ) on page 3971 – 

(1) in serial no . 652 , column 2 for “ Jaffarali ” read " Jaffrall ” 
(11) in Acrial no . 610 , column 2 for “ Manilal, Mulchand " road " Manilal Mulchand " 


( 23 ) on page 3972 – 

(1) in serial no . 634 , columi 2 for “ Milek -Chowk, Spg." road « Manokchowk Spg." 
( ii ) in gerialno . 654, column 5 for “ 2 ,23 ,974 " road " 2,20, 944 " 
(iii ) in serial no . 656 , column 2 for “ Ahnzie ad ” read " Ahmedabad ” 


24) on page 3973 
in serial no. 674 , column 2 for “ Premchand Manok chowk ” read " Premchand , Manok 

chowk " 
(25) on page 3974 – 

in serial no . 715 , column 2 for " Trividrum " read “ Trivandrum " 


( 26 ) on page 3975 – 

(i) in serial no . 728 , column 5 for " 1,28 ,817 " road " 1,28,617 " 
(iv) in serial no . 734 , column 2 for " Aruppuk ta " road " Aruppukottai” 
( iii ) in scrial no . 736 , column 2 for " Ramaswamy India " road " Raduwamy, India " 
(iv ) in scrlal no . 738 , column 2 for " Errabau Chetty Stree " read " Errabalu Chotty 

Street " 
(u ) in serial no . 739, column 3 for " 1, 33 ,974 " road " 1,37,974 " 
(vi) in serial no . 745 , column 2 for " Chambero Chrome" road " Chambers, Chromo" 
( vii) in gorial no . 746 , column 2 for “ Baijnath Express " road " Baijnath , Express" 


27) on page 3976 -- 

(1) in serial no , 764, column 2 for “ Thangammahel " road " Thanganmahal ” 
( 11 ) in serial no . 767 , column 2 for “ Mint., " road " Mint.” 
( 111) in serialno . 788, column 2 for “ Stensfied " road " Stens leld " 


(28 ) on page 3977 – 

(0) in serial no . 798 , column 2 for " T . V . S . P . & Sons" road " T . V . S . & Sons " 
(iv) in serial no . 801 , column 2 for " Srinivaxen " road " Srinivasan " 
( iit ) in serial no , 804 , column 2 for “ Chellagram ” road " Chellaram ” 
( iv ) in gerlal no . 804 , column 2 for Madras " read “ Madras " 
( v ) in serial no , 806 , column 2 for “ Medras II " raad " Madras " 
(vi) in serial no . 857, column 2 for “ Shinimughem " read “ Sheamugham " 
(Du ) in sorlal no. 810 , column 2 for “ Madhavam " read “ Madhewan " 

(vist ) in serial no. 813 , column 2 for “ Venaravan " road “ Vondarawan " 
(29 ) on page 3978 
(i) in serial no . 840 , column 2 for " Angumuthu , read " Angumuthu 

Plilai C / o 

Puid C /o 
Angu Vilas," 

Angu Vllas " 
( 30 ) on page 3979 -- 

1) in govial no . 874 , column 2 for “ Soomitha " read " Soonitha," 
(it) in gorial no . 885 , column 2 for " C . Ramawimi" read " G . Ramaswam . " 
( 117 ) in serial 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5321 


- 


( 91) on page 3980 — 

(1) in serial no . 888 , column 2 for “ C /oabove " read " C /U " , 
( ii ) in seriulno . 890 , column 2 fur " Nagiah ” read " Nagaiah " 
( iii) in serial no. 904 , column 2 for Pai Mangalore read " Pai, Mangalore 
( iv ) in serial no. 918 , coluinn 2 for “ Nagarathnana" read " Nagarathnamma" 
(v ) in serial no. 924 , column sfor " 1,59 ,010 , read " 1,39,010 " 

( ti) in serialno. 925 , column 2 for Haber H L ” read " Huber HAL " 
( 32 ) on page 3981 – 

(i) in serial no. 938 , column 2 for “ Dewanurappa " read " Dewansurappa " 
( ii ) in serial no . 950 , column 4 for " 1963 -64 " road " 1962 -63 " 

(111 ) in serialno . 971 , column 4 for " 15, 30 ,536 " read " 1, 30 ,556 " 
(33 ) on page 3982 – 

in serial no . 984 , column 2 for “ Raj Tliak Road " . read “ Raj Tilak Road " 
(34 ) Page 3983 — 

(i) in serial no . 1033 , column 5 for " 1, 20 ,653 " road " 1, 20, 539 " 

( ii ) in gerial no , 1035, column 2 for " Sitoram ” read " Sitaram " 
( 35 ) on Page 3984 – 

(i) in scrlal no . 1069 , column 2 for “ Ballaridic " read “ Ballardie " 
( 17 ) in serial no . 1075, column 2 for " Geonka " read “ Guanku " 

( iii ) in serial no . 1077 , column 4 for “ 1960 -61 " read “ 1964 -65 " 
( 36 ) on page 3985 – 

(i) in serial no. 1078 , column 4 for " 1960 -61 " road " 1964 -65 " 

(ii in serial no . 1097 , column 4 for " 1964 -95 " read " 1964 -65 " 
( 37 ) on Page 3987 

in serial no. 1138 columrl 2 for “ Keem ” read " Keen " 
( 38 ) on page 3988 — 

in serial no , 1166 , column 2 for " Assocaited " read " Associated " 
( 39 ) 011 Page 3989 – 

(i) in serial no . 1206 , column 2 for “ Gillinders " read “ Gillanders " 
( 41) in serialno. 1211 column 4 and 5 delete “ 1964-65 " and 1, 36 ,141 " 
(iii ) in serialno . 1212 , column 5.for " 2, 36 , 141 " road " 1,36 ,141 " 

( iv ) in serialno . 1220 , column a for " Dt. ” road " Dr. " 
(40 ) on page 3990 
in serial no . 1240 coluinn 2 for " Benoy Bhushan , Mazumdar " read " Benoy Bhushan 

Mezumdar " 
( 41) on page 3991 – 

(1) in gorialno . 1284 , column 2 for “ Dylhousie " read “ Dalhousie " 
( ii ) in serialno. 1287, column 5 for " 10 ,10 ,729 " road " 19 , 10 , 729 " 
( iii) below serial no . 1292 , and above the table for “ Financial Year " road " Financial Year 

1964 -65 " 
(42 ) on page 3992 – 

(1) after serialno . 9 for " Bombay City " read “ Bombay City - - I " 
( ii ) in serial no . 19 column 2 for “ Gllçnder " read " Gillander " 
(ii) in serialno . 19 column 2 for “ N . S " read “ N , S . Road " 
(iv ) in serial no . 24 , column 2 for “ Shrrec " read " Shree " 
(v ) in gerial no , 24, column 5 for " 10 , 36 ,543 " road " 10 , 37 ,543 " 

(vi) in serial no . 28 , column 2 for “ Corn Proucts Co " read " Corn Products Co " 
(43) on page 3993 — 

in serial no . 47, column 2 Jor “ 13 - A Porcchore " read " 12A Poroshore " 


5322 


THE GAZETTE OF İNDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTİKA 25, 1890 [Part II 


(44 ) on page 3995 – 
(i) in serial no . 101 column 2 for “ India Tube Mills Metal Industries Pvt." read “ India 

Tube Mills & Metal Industries Pvt." 
( ii ) in serial no . 103 , column 2 for " Appllo Assurance " road " Appollo s 
( 45) on Page 3996 – 

(i) in sorial no . 121, column 2 for " Assurance " read " Assurance " 
(ii) in serial no , 121, column s for " 3 , 73, 380 " read " 23 , 73 , 380 " 

(111) in serial no. 127 , column 2 for " Sciendia House " read “ Scindia House " 
(46 ) on page 3998 

(1) in serial no , 162 , column 2 for “ F . Parkins Ltd " read “ F . Perkins Ltd . 
( ii) in serial no. 163, for “ Ferner Cookll " read " Fecner Cockli " 
( 111 ) in serial no . no . 166 , column 2 for " Fergusion ” read " Fergussion " 
( iv ) in serial no , 166 , column 2 for " Roses " read " Ross " 

( v ) in serial no . 167, column 2 for “ Meetur " read " Mettur " 
(47 ) on page 3999 – 

(i) in serial no , 204, column 3 for “ Col ” read " Co . " 

(11) in serial no , 207 , column 2 for “ Woolen " road " Woollen " 
(48) on page 4000 

in serial no. 234 , column 2 for Row Extension " road " Row " 
(49 ) on page 4001 – 

(1) in serial no , 243, column 4 for “ 1926 -63 " road " 1962 -63 " 
(it ) in scrial no . 257, column 2 for " Caicutta " road " Calcutta " 

( iii ) lo serial no . 265 , column 2 for " Manufactuera " read " Manufacturers " 
( 50 ) on page 4002 

(1) in gerial no. 268, column 2 for “ Sexby ” read “ Saxby ” 
( ) in serial no. 268 , column 5 for “ 15,68,368 " road " 15, 58, 368 " 
( iii ) in serial no , 273 , column 2 for “ Brook " read " Brooke " 
(iv ) in serial no , 275, column 2 for “ Gamboodih " read " Camboodih " 

(v ) in serial no . 281 , column 2 for “ Kettle -well ” read “ Kettlewell ” 
( vi) in serial 10 , 281, column 2 for " Cacutta " read " Calcutta " 
(51 ) on page 4003 – 
in serialno , 313 , columns for “ 13 ,59, 35 " road " 13, 59 ,458 " 

[No, F . 1 /4 /68/ IT (B )] 


Now Delhi, the 16th November 1968 


s . o . 1097 . - - In the notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Finance 
(Department Of Revenue and Ingurance) No, S . O . 3475 , dated the 4th September, 1967 published 

7 pages 3601 to 3641, in Part II Section 3 , sub - section (li) of the Gazette of India , dated the 
30th September, 1967, 


(1 ) on page 3602 

( ) in serial no. 9 , column 2 for " Mechani" road " Machani" 
( ii ) in serial no. 10 , column 4 for " Dg " read " DO " 
( 11 ) in serial no. 15 , column 2 for " Princes " read Princess " 
( iv ) in serial no, 20 , column 2 for " Pops " read Prop ." 
( v ) in serial no . 38 , column 2 for " Dhatikidih " read " Dhatkidih " 


(2 ) on page 3605 — 

(i) in serial no. 47, column 2 fur " Dinashaw " read " Dinshaw 
(i ) in gerlel no . 55 , column 2 for " Bathubal” road " Babulal" 


Sec . 3 (il) ] THE GAZÉTTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1963 /KAR SIKA 75 , 1890 


5323 


(111 ) in serial no . 58 , column 2 for " Seita" read “ Scity 
( iv ) in serial no. 62, column 2 for " Ldt read " Ltd ” 
( v ) in serial no . 62, column 2 for " P . H ." read " P . M ." 
(01) in serial no. 69, column 2 for " Nenabhai" road " Nanabhai" 

(vii ) in serial no . 71, column 2 for " Gregaon " read " Gregson " 
(3 ) on page 3604 

( ) in serial no . 79, column 2 for " City Bombay ” read " City Bank " 
( ii ) in serial no . 91 , column 2 for " Pawcell" read " Pawell” 
(it) in serial no . 93 , columns for “ 1,27 ,933 " read " 1,26 .933 " 

(iv ) in serial no . 108 , column 5 for " 2 ,19,40 " rond " 2, 19,140" 
(4 ) on page 3605 

(i) in serial no. 114, column 2 for " Backbeny" read « Backbey " 
( ii ) in serial no. 115 , column 2 for " Fazalbhay " read " Fazalbhoy” 

( ii ) in serial no . 119 , column 2 for " Asbastos " road " Asbestos " 
(s ) on page 3606m 

(i) in serial no. 150, column 2 for " Javrji” read " Javerji” 

(11) in serial no . 171, column 2 for " Tire " road " Tyre" 
(6 ) on page 3607 – 

(1) in serial no, 186 , column 2 for " Dahannkar" read “ Dahanukar" 
( ii ) in serial no . 210, column 2 for " Radha Kali” read “ Radha Galli " 
(in) in serial no . 212, columu s for " 9 ,26 , 184 " road " 9, 36 , 184" 


( 7) on page 3608 

( ) in serial no, 220 , column 2 for " Mehadrai” read " Madhassai" 
(it) in serial no . 224 , column 2 for " Tannen " read " Tannan " 
( ii ) in aerial n . 224 , column 2 for " Tanen " read " Tannan " 
(iv ) in serial no . 225, column 2 for " Kalabadevị” read " Kalbadevi s 
( v ) in serial 10. 233 , column 2 for " Mew ” read " New " 
( vi) in serial no. 213, column 2 for " Dinshay " road " Dinshaw " 

(vii ) 112 serial No. 244 , column 2 for “ Amaniklal read " Aamniklal 
(8 ) on page 3609 

(i) in serial no. 251, column 2 for " Furudasmal” real " Gurudasmal” 
( ii ) in serial no. 262, column 2 for " Come raad " Cama" 
( iii ) in serial no. 267, column 2 for " Jamshed ;” read “ Jamshedji s 

(10 ) in serial no. 272 , column 2 for " Lackman Dags" reid " I achman Das 
( 9) on page 3610mm 

( ) in serial no. 297 , column 2 for " Kalabadcyi" rad " Kalbaleyi" 
(11) in serial no . 308 , column 2 for " Pate" read " Patel” 

( 111 ) in serial no. 320 , column 2 for " Navaibai" read “ Nayajbai" 
( 10 ) on page 3611 – 

(1) in serial no. 325, column 2 for " Windosor" rend " Windsox " 
( i ) in serial no. 326, columnn 2 for " Rhakar Dag" read " Thakar Das " 

( 111 ) in serlal no. 354 , column 2 for Sarjo " read " Saroj" 
( 11 ) on page 3612 

in serial no . 378 , column 2 for " Vishamber " road " Bishamber " 
( 12 ) on page 3613 – 

( ) in serial no. 397, column 2 for " Dorbshow ” road " Darabshaw ” 
(11) in serial no . 416 , column z for " Delaleile " read " Deliole " 


5324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968/ KARTIKA - 5 , 1890 [PAHOI! . 


( 13 ) on page 3614 

(i) in serial no. 429, olumn 2 for " Rajpal” read " Tejpal” 
(ii ) in serial no . 436 , column 2 for “ Carsandas " read " Carsondas" 
( iii ) in solal no . 438 . column 2 for “ Kainlı " read " Kanila " 
( iv ) in serial no . 442 , column 2 for “ Bimladebi” road " Bimladevi" 
( u ) 111 serial no. 412. colunin 2 for " Ready " read “ Reay ": 
(vi) in serial no . 443 , column 2 for " Ready " read " Reay " 

(vis) in serial no . 447 , column 2 for " Sharamsce" read " Dharamsce" 
( 14 ) on page 3615 - - 

(1) in serial no. 459 , column 2 for “ New Queens" road " New Queens Roud " 
( ii) in serial no . 478 , column 3 insert " Indi" 
( 111 ) in serial no . 480, column 2 for " 635 - 36 " reud " $ 35 - 36 " 


( 15 ) on page 3616 — 

( ) in serial no. 490 , column 2 jor “ Mis ," read " Mrs " 
(11) in werial nu . 190 , column 3 :nsert " Indl" 
( iii) in serial no . 49 , column 2 for " Singhi" read " Sunghi 
(iv) in serial no. 496 , column 2 for " Notilal” read " Motilal" 
( v ) in serial no. 502, coluinn 2 for " Bhundergi” read " Bhuderji " 
( iv ) in serial no . 518, column 2 for " Jadeia " read “ Jadeja " 
( vii ) in serial No. 519 , column 2 for "Gohejl " reod “ Golie!" 
( vili ) in serial no . 523 , column 3 for " Gohejl" road " Indl" 

(ix ) in serial 10. 530 , olumn 2 tor “ Darwaja " reud " Lal Darwaja A bad" 
( 16 ) on page 3617 

(i) in sarial no . 534 , column 2 for “ Goi handbhai" raud “ Gordhanbha ." 
(11 ) in serial no, 551 , column 2 for " HUF " read " Indl" 

( ii ) in serial no . 554 , column 4 incart " 62 - 63 " . 
(17 ) on page 3618 

(i) in serial no . 578 for the figure in column 4 raad " 3,26 ,762" 

ii ) in serial no . 583, column 3 for " ," rend " ,," 

( iii ) in een al no. 590 , column 2 for “ Ahmedzbad ” rrad " Ahmedabad " 
( 18 ) on page 3619 

in serial no . 620 , column 2 for “ Verma" read " Varma" 
( 19 ) on page 3621 -- 

in serial no. 706 , column 2 for " Nagrouil" read " Nagercoil " 
(20 ) on page 3623 – 

(i) in serial no. 789 , column 2 for " Venkatamanalu ” road “ Venkatamanjalu " 
( ii ) in scrial no . 789, column 2 for " Chettiar ," read " Charliar " 
(iii ) in serial no. 793, columu 2 for " M . C . u $ ndarajan " read " M . C . Şundarajan " 
(iv ) in serial no. 798 , coluinn 2 for " Denagere " read " Devanageri" 
(w ) in serial no. 815 , column 5 for " 1,25,671 " read " 1, 25 ,678 " 


(21) on page 3624 

(i) in serial no. $ 17, column 3 for " Inp " read " Ind " 
( ii ) in serial no. 843, column 2 for " States , Picture House" road " States Picture House 


( 22 ) on page 3623 

Under heading " Punjab " Delote “ S /Shri ” 
( it ) in serial no . 874, colunan 2 for “ Yamunegar " road " Yamunanagar " 
( ift) in serial no. 885, column 2 for “ Kutbihar " rood “ Kutlehr " 


c. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTB OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


5325 


(iv ) in serial no . 886 , columo 2 for " Meeron " read " Mecrana " 

(o ) in serial no . 886 , column s for " 7 ,08 ,042 " read " 1, 08,042 " 
( 01) in serial 00 . 889 , column 2 for " New Judge " read " Now Judge " 

(a ) in serial no . 893 , column 2 for " Tansusukh Rai" read " Tansukh Rai " 
(43 ) on page 3626 – 

in qerial no . 916 , column 2 for " Silapur " road " Sitapur " 
( 44 ) on page 3627 – 

in serial no. 915, column 5 for " 1 , 50 , 770 " read “ 1, 50 ,777 " 
(* ) In serial no. 955, column 2 for “ Triben " rood " Tribeni " 
(25) on page 3628 

o in serial no . 970 , column 2 for “ Ripson " read “ Ripon " 

( ) in serial no . 990, column 2 for “ Burpur " read “ Burnpur " 
(26 ) on page 3629 — 

(i) in the top line giving the column numbers , in the relevant column insert " 5 " . 
( 11) in serial no . 996, colunn 2 for " Jar liga " real " Jardine " 
(ii) in serial no . 1019 , coluna g insert “ 1,03,431 " 

(iv ) in serial no . 1026 , column 2 for " Gurusedey " read " Gurusadey " 
( 67 ) on page 3630 

in serial no . 1039 , column 2 for " I. H . Kirk " read " J. H . Krik " 
(a ) in serial no . 1063, column 4 for " 1916 - 57 " read “ 1946 -47 " 

(ii) in serial no . 1065, column 2 for " 8 /9 Birla Alipore Road " read " 8 /9 Alipore Road " 
26 ) on page 36314 

(i) in serial no . 1085 , column 5 for " 5, 45 ,922 " read " 6 ,45,922 " 

(ú ) in serial no. 1095, column 2 for " Senclair " read " Sinclair " 
( 19 ) on page 3632 

(i) in serial no . 1112, column 2 for " Holander " read " Hollander " 
( ) in serial no. 1113 , căluina 3 for “ N . R . " read “ N . R . Ind." 
(Hi) in serial no . 1116 , column 3 for “ N . R . " road “ N . R . Ind ." 

( iv ) in serial no . 1123, cula n . 2 for “ 6t Lyong Range " read " 6 Lyons Range " 
(10 ) on page 3634 — 

in scrialno . 23 , column 2 for " Wandy " read “ Wandley " 
( it ) in serial no. 45 , coluna 2 for “ Surn ” read “ Sahrid " 
(31) on page 3635 – 

in serial no. 55 , column 2 for " Carena " read “ Carona " 
(i ) in serial no . 59, coluna 2 for “ Balar. Estate ” read “ Ballard Estate " 
(HI) after secial 13 . 6 for w : h : 111.13 " 3 ) njay City 222 " road " Bombay City III" 
( 10 ) in serial nɔ .65 colani2 for " Aue " real " ALIC " 
( 0 ) in serial n .) . 66 , colina2 for “ Cuel " read “ Caole " 

(vi) in serial no . 68 , columa 2 for “ Kerani ” read “ Kermani " 
( 12) on page 3637 — 

( ) in serial no. 144 , column 2 for " and Line Beach ” read " 2nd Line Beach " 

(üi) in serial no . 147, column 3 / or " " read “ Co " 
( 13) on page 3638 - 

☺) in serial 09 . 162 , colania for “ Sinyali " read “ Sindbaoli " 

(ü ) in serial no . 170 , colu .on 2 for " Baruwato " read " Braithwaite " 
( 34 ) on page 3639 – 

in serial no. 188 , column 3 insert “ N .R . Co ." 
(U ) in serial 19 . 189 , coluna 3 for “ N .R . LO " raad " Co . " 


5326 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25 , 1890 


PART II 


( 35 ) on page 3641 

O in serial no . 224 , column 2 for " 43 /45 ” read " 43 /46 " 
(6 ) in serial no . 232 , column 3 insort " " 
(ii ) in serial no . 231 , column 5 for " 3241,424 " read " 44, 12 ,243 " 
( iv ) in serial no. 242 , column 2 for " Waldia " read " Waldie " 

(o) in serial no. 244 , column 2 for " Garesham " raad " Greshara " 
(30 ) on page 3641 

( in serial no. 251, column 2 for " Road ” read " Row " 
(u ) in serial no . 253 , column 3 for " N .R . " road " N . R . Co. " 

[No. 1/7 /65- IT (B )). 
8 . 0 . 4094 . - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance 
Department of Revenue and Insurance) No. S . O . 3476 , dated the 4th September , 1967 published 
at pages 3641 to 3691, in Part II, Section 3 , sab - section ( li ) of the Gazette of India , dated tho 
30th September 1967 , 
( 1) on page 3643 

(1) in serial no . 38 , column 2 for " Lakhimupur" road " Lakhimpur" 
( it ) in serial no . 43, column 2 for " Nandlal” read " Nandalal " 
(iii ) in serial no. 48, column 2 for " Saharara" read " Sagamusa " 
(iv ) in serial no. 63, column 2 for " Vershenei” read " Vershnei" 

(u) in serial no . 65, column 2 for “ Gıder" read " Gilder " 
(2 ) on page 3644 

in social no. 73, column 2 for " Bowyer" reud “ R , Bowyer" 
(3 ) on page 3647 – 

) in serial no. 16 ), columi 2 for " India Pvt," read " India " 
( 11) in serial no . 166 , column 2 for “ Geote" read " Geite" 
(iii ) in serial no. 174 , column 2 for " Jyotibens Patel ” read " Jyotibon S . Patel 
( iv ) in serial no . 175 , column 2 for " Phennatic" reaul " Pneumatic " 
( o ) in serial no. 176 , column 2 for " Makefield " read “ Wakefield " 
( vi) in social no . 180 , column 2 for " Goriver " read " Grover " 

( vii ) in serial no. 181, colunan 2 for " SK . Menon read “ Sheikh Menon " 
( 4 ) on page 3648 

(1) in serial n2. 187 , columns 4 and 5 , delete “ DO " and " 1,45,374 " 
(ii) in social no. 196 , column 2 for " Rayley " read " Boyley " 
( 11 ) in serial no . 203, column 2 for “ Sabha" read " Sabah " 

(iv ) in serial no , 204, column 2 for " Dive" read " Drive" 
(5 ) on page 3649 – 

(1) in serial no. 224 , columi 2 for “ Calten " road " Callex" 
6 ) on page 3650 – 

in serial no . 269 , column 2 for " Arrindrosad " read " Arvindprosad " . 
(it) in gcrial no, 270 , column 2 for " Chcsburgugh " read " Chesburough " 

( int ) in serial 00, 278 , column 2 for " Rayap " read " Ryan " 
(7) on page 3651 – 

(!) in scrial Do. 300 , column 2 for " Dubas" road " Dubash " 
(11) in serial no . 309 , column 2 for " Tamarnd Lane" read " Tamarind Lane" 

( tit) in serial no. 317, column 2 for " Suroff " read " Shroff " 
( 8) on page 3652 

(1) in serial 2o . 334 , column 2 for " Linyn " read “ Linyin " 
(9 ) on page 3655 - * 

(i) in serial no . 437 , column 2 for " Ramchand Ochbaala 1" read " Rameshchand 

Ochhavalal ! 
(ii ) in serial no. 456 , column 2 for " Sawdeshi" read " Swade 


"Ramchand olikalt 


ret "Remekten 


Sec. 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KAR LIKA 25, 1890 


5327 


(10 ) on page 3656 

in serial no. 479 , column 2 for " Kingos " read “ Kings " 

(11) in serial no . 491, column 5 for " 1, 89 , 135 " read " 1,81, 135 " 
( 11 ) on page 3637 

( ) in serial no. 510, column 2 for " Haron " read " Haroon ” 

( 11 ) in serlal no . 1519 , column 2 for “ Marka road " Harka" 
( 12 ) on pago 3658 – 

(1) in serial no. 542 , column 2 for “ Takelram ” read " Tahelram " 
( ii) in serial no. 544, column 5 for " 1,88 ,538 " read " 1, 88, 535" 
( 111) in serial no . 548 , column 5 for " 1 , 50 ,814 " read " 1 , 50 , $ 13 " 

ju ) in serial no. 555 , column 5 for " 3,07,904 " read " 3,07,994 " 
( 13 ) on page 3659 – 

(1) in serial no . 558, column s for " 1,23,626 ” read " 1, 23,629 " 
(ii) in serial no . 563 , column 2 for " Navbhai" read " Navabhai" 

( 111) lo serial no. 581, column 2 for " Burgasg " road " Burgues" 
(14 ) on page 3660 

in serial no. 585 , column 2 for " Pasanwala " read " Patanwala " 
15 ) on page 3661 

(1) in serial no . 623, column 2 for " Kitchnr" read " Kitchner" 
( iv) in serial no . 627, column 5 for " 1,73 ,724 " read " 1,73, 721" 
( iii) in serial no . 636, column 2 for " Swai Man " read " Swai Man Singh " 
(iv ) in serial no . 637, column 2 for " Tanta " read “ Tantia " 

( v ) in serial ). 651 , column 2 for “ N .Mansuldhram " road " N . Mansukhram " 
16 ) on page 3662 – 

in gorial no, 692 , column 2 for " Elliace " read " Fllis " 
( 17) on page 3663 

(i) in serial n . 753 , colunı 2 after " Shantiniketan " Insert " Society " 
( ii ) in serial 10 . 706 , column 2 for " Mansbi” read " Mansvi" 

( iii ) in serial n ). 726 , column 2 for " Manechowk " read " Manekchowk" 
( 18 ) on page 3664 

(1) in serial no . 742, column 2 for " Manechowk " read " Manekchowk " 
(it) in serial_ no . 756A , for " Sukhdev T . read " Sukhdev T .. 

Billimora " 

Kangara , Billimora " 
( uti ) in secial n . 77) , crunn 2 for “ B . Soutar" read " J. B . Soutar" 
( 19) on page 3666 

in serial no. 854, column 2 for " Womfer" read “ Wonfer" 
( 20 ) on page 3667 – 

(i) in serial no . 873, column 2 for " Kantilla " read " Kantilal" 
(11) In " scrial no . 874 , column 2 for " Keshavalal " read “ Keshavlal" 
(iit) in serial no . 876 , column 3 for " H . U . " road " H . U . F . " 

(iv ) in serial no . 894 , " column 2 for “ Trupur" read " I irupur" 
(21) on page 3668 

(i) in serlal n ). 911, columns 2 for " Madrass " read " Madras" 

(ii) in serial no . 911, column 5 for " 1, 444, 192 " read " 1, 44, 192 " 
22) on page 3669 

in acil 1 012, colin i 2 for " Planttation read " Plantation " 


5328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : NOVEMBER 16 , 1968 /KARTIKA 25, 1890 (PART II -- 


( 43 ) op page 3670 

( ) in serial no . 979, columa a for " Dodid " read Dodd " 

( II ) in serial no 1004, column 2 for " Shanmugba" read " Shanmugham " 
(24 ) on page 3672 — 

(1) in serial no . 1039 , column 2 for " Barasimhicaja" read " Narasimhtraja " 

(it) to serial no . 1089, column 2 for " Sangal" read " Sangai " 
( 25) on page 3673 

1) in serial no . 1103 , column 2 for " Mehara " read " Mehra " 
(i ) in serial no. 108 , column 2 for " Menra " read “ Mehra " 

(ur) in serial no . 1119, column 2 for " Ratata” read “ Bacala" 
( 36 ) on page 3674 – 

( ) in serial no . 1138 , column 2 for “ Nawanganj" read " Nawalgari" 
( it ) in serial no . 1149, column 2 for " Kundera " read " Mundera" 
(iii ) in serial no . 1146 , column 5 for " 1, 34 ,411 ” read “ 1, 33 -411 " 

(iv) in serial no . 1170 , column 2 for " Bareilly" read “ Bareilly" 
( 27) on page 3676 — 

in serial no . 1212 , column 5 for " 1,22,687 " read " 1,22 ,667% 
( ii ) in serial no . 1218 , column 2 for " C /o " read “ A /0 " 
( ii ) in serial no . 1226 , column 4 for " DO " read " 1963 -64" 

( iv ) in serial no . 1228 , column 5 insert " 2,78, 420 " 
(28 ) on page 3678 _ 

in serial no. 1292 , column 2 for " Illa " read " Ila " 
(29 ) on page 3679 . 

1) after scrial 00, 1315, column i for " 116 " reaa " 1916 " 

(i ) in serial no . 1316 , column 2 for " Centhol” read " Benthol" 
(30) on page 3681 — 

in serial no. 1368 , column 2 for " Chanı” read " Chand " 
( 31 ) on page 3682 — 

in serial no . 29, column 2 for " Year" read “ Vcer" 
(32 ) on page 3684 — 

(i) in serial no . 74 , column 2 for " Victorial" reud " Victoria " 

(11) iu scrial po . 91, column 2 for " ( Export )" road " (Export ) Ltd ." 
(33 ) on page 3686 

(i) in serial no. 132 column 2 for " Udyogmandal rrad " Udyozemardai" 

( 11 ) in serial no, 156 , column 2 Jor " New Delhi” read " New Jail Road " 
(34 ) on page 3687 – 

in serial no. 192 , colimn 2 for " Pollibatu " reud “ Pollibetta " 
(35 ) on page 3688 – 
in serial no, 201, coluni 2 for " Breueries Ltd ., Bangalore ( P ) " road " Breweries 

Ltd ., Bangalore" 
( 36 ) on page 3689 - - 

(i) in vecial no. 221, column 2 for " Warram " reud " Warran " 
(ir) in serial no . 235, coluinn 2 for " Clilt " read " Cly. " 

( vii ) in serial no , 257, column 2 for " Lenolcums" reud " Linoleums" 
( 37) on pug : 3690 

(1) in aer al no. 272 , wolumn 2 for " RD " read " L d ." 
( ii ) in serial no . 283, columns 4 inds for " 1962 -63 58 ,47,380 , 

roud " 1962- 63 58,47, 380 

1963-64 31, 13 , 378 " 

[No. 1/7/65 – II(A )] 
R . D . ŞAXENA , Dy. Secy . 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: NOVEMBER 16, 1968 / KARTIKA 25, 16905329 


वित्त मंत्रालय 


( अर्थ विभाग ) 


( शेयर बाजार प्रभाग ) 

शुद्धिपत्न 

नई दिल्ली , 11 नवम्बर 1988 
साविधिक पावेश 4095 - दिनांक 28 सितम्बर 1968 के भारत के राजपत्र के भाग II 
बण 3 - उपखण्ड ( II ) के पृष्ठ 4561 पर प्रकाशित दिनांक 7 सितम्बर 1968 के सांविधिक 
आदेश संख्या 3445 में वित्त मंत्रालय के अर्थ विभाग से सम्बस भारत सरकार की अधिसूचना के 
हिन्दी रूपान्तर मै " वायदा बाजार प्रभाग " के स्थान पर " शेयर बाजार प्रभाग ” पदिए । 

[ सं० एफ० 1/ 8/एस० ई०/ 68 ] 

एन० सी० मैत्र , 
संयुक्त निदेशक ( एस०ई० ) । 


- -- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - . . - - - - 
PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELIL 1988 


