REGISTERED No. D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No, 29 ) 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


NOTICE 
Thc undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 12th July 
1957 : - - 


Issue 
No, 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


359 | S . R . O , 2249 , dated the 

6th July 1957. 


Ministry of Finance 


| Publication of the Customs 

Dutics Drawback (Potassium 

Citrate ) Rules , 1957 , 
Publication of the Customs 

Duties Drawback (Jute 
Manufactures) Rules, 1957 . 


S .R . O . 2250 , dated the 

6th July 1957 . 


Do . 


. 


360 | S . R . O . 2251, dated the Ministry of Food & Agri Amendment made in the 
6th July 1957 . culturc . 

Orissa Rice (Prohibition of 

Export ) Order , 1957 . 
360 - A | S . R . O . 2251 - A , dated the Ministry of Commerce Appointment of Shri T . M . B . 
6th July 1957 , and Industry . 

Nedungadi as Chairman and 
certain other persons as 
members of the Coir Board 
with effect from the 7th 

July 1957 . 
361 | S .R . O . 2252 , dated the Ministry of Steel, Mines | Fixation of prices at which 
8th July 1957 . and Fuel 

Cual / coke overloaded at 
any weigh - bridge may be 

sold by colliery owners. 
S . R . O . 2253, dated the 

Do. . . | Fixation of prices at which 
8th July 1957 . 

coal /coke may be sold by 

colliery owners . 
362 S .R .O . 2251, dated the Ministry of Finance Direction by the Central 
8th July 1957 . 

Government that a drawback 
shall be allowed in respect 
of duty paid soda ash , 
used in the manufacturc 
of glass or glasswarc . 


S . R . O . 2255 , dated the 

Publication of the Customs 
8th July 1957 . 

Duties Drawback (Glass 
and Glasswarc ) Rules , 

1957 
S .R . O . 2255 - A , dated the Ministry of Information | Certification of certain film 
Ioth July 1957 . & Broadcasting , 

to be of the description au 
specified therein , 


362 - A 


( 1519 ) 


1520 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART LI 


Issue 
No . 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


363 


S. R .O . 2256 , dated the 

6th July 1957 . 


Election Commission , 

India , 


| Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election peti 
tion by Shri Kamal Basu 
against the election of Shri 

Purnendu Sekhar Naskar . 
Appe.atment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Shivamurti 
Swami against the election 
of Shri Sangappa. 


S.R .O . 2257 , dated the 

6th July 1957 . 


Do. 


. 


Do . 


S . R .O . 2258 , dated the 

7th July 1957 . 


Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election 
Petition by Shri Raghubir 
Singh against the election 

of Shri Brij Raj Singh . 
Ministry of Food and Publication of the Rice 
Agriculture . 

(Southern Zone ) Move 
ment Control Order , 
1957 . 


364 | S . R . O . 2258 - A , dated the 

9th July 1957 . 


36 % | S. R . O . 2258 - B , dated | Election 
the 7th July 1957 . 

India . 


Commission Appointment of a member of 

the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election peti 
tion by Shri Umashanker 
Muljibhai Trivedi against 
the Election of Shri Manak 


lal. 


S . R . O . 2258 - C , dated the 

8th July 1957 . 


Do . 


. 


. 


Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Darbari 
Lal Sharma against the 
election of Shri Bishan 
Chand Seth . 


366 | S.R .O . 2258- D , dated 1 

the gth July 1957 . 


Do . 


. 


. 


Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
pctition by Shri B . Shyam 
Sundor against the clection 
of Shri Shanker Deo 
Vedalankar. 


0 


. 


367 | S. R . O . 2258 - E , dated the 

7th July 1957. 


Appointment of a membe: 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Banshi 
Pandy against the clection 
of Shri Kashinath Pande . 


S .R . O . 2258- F , dated the 

7th July 1957 . 


Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Hari 
Vishnu Kamath against 
the election of Shri Magan 
lal Radhakishen Bagdl. 


SEC . 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1987/ ASADHA 29 , 1879 1521 


SSR 


Issue : 
No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


S . R . O . 2258 - G , dated the Election 
8th July 1957 . 

India , 


Commission , Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Sundhir 
Laxman Hendre against 
the election of Shri Shripad 
Amrit Dange and Shri 

Gopal Kaluji Manay , 
Appointment of @ member 

of the Election Tribunal 
for the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Sri Krishna 
Agarwal agalnst the elec 
tion of Shri S , M . Banerji . 


S . R . O . 2258 - H , dated the 

8th July 1957 . 


S . R . O . 2258 - 1, dated the 

8th July 1957 . 


Do . 


. 


368 | S . R . O . 2307, dated the 

IIth July 1957. 


Appointment of a member of 

the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election 
petition by Shri Digambar 
Rao Bindu againgt the 
election of Shri Hari Har 

Sonule . 
Appointment of a member 

of the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an clection 
petition by Shri Motilal 
against the election of Shri 
Maharani Vijay Raje 

Shinde. 
Corrigendum to Notification 

No. F . 5 (0 ) 57 - Elections 
published as S . R . O . 936 , 
dated the 19th March , 
1957. 


S . R . O . 2308, dated the Ministry of Law . 

IIth July 1957 . 


. 


369 | S. R .O . 2309 , dated the Ministry of Finance 

12th July 1957. 


Exemption of rice , husked or 

unhusked , including ricc 
flour but excluding rice 
bran and ricc dust from 
sv much of duty aş specified 
therein , 


370 S . R . O 2310 , dated the Election Commission , Appointment of a member of 
Ioth July 1957. India . 

the Election Tribunal for 
the trial of an election peti 
tion by Shri Hotilal against 
the clection of Shri Raj 

Bahadur. 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART II - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government of 

India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities ( other 
than the Chief Commissioners ). 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1957 . 
S .R . O . 2324 . — The following draft of certain rules, which the Central Govern 
ment propose to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 26 of the 


1522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 ; 1957/ ASADHA 29 . 1879 


( Part 1) 


Coir Industry Act, 1953 (45 of 1953) , is hereby published as required by sub 
section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby, and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after 31st July , 1957 . 


2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 


DRAFT RULES 


1 . Short title and Commencement. - ( 1 ) These Rules may be called the Coir 
Industry (Registration and Licensing ) Rules, 1957. 

(2 ) Rules 1 to 16 and 18 to 31 shall come into force at once and rule 17 
sball come into force three months thereafter , 
2 . Definitions . In these Rules , unless the context otherwise requires : - 

( a ) " Act" means the Coir Industry Act , 1953: 
(b ) " Chairman ” means the Chairman of the Board ; 
( c ) " Coir spindle " means a mechanical contrivance used or intended to 

be used for spinning coir fibre into coir yarn ; 
( d ) " Customs Collector " means a Customs Collector as defined in clause ( c ) 

of section 3 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , for the purposes 
of that Act or of that Act as applied to the import and export of goods 
by air or a Collector of Land Customs as defined in clause ( c ) of 

section 2 of the Land Customs Act, 1924 ( 19 of 1924 ) ; 
( e ) " Form " means a Form set forth in the Schedule to these Rules; 
( 1 ) " industrial establishment" means any premises including any part 

thereof where rehanking of coir yarn is done with hired labour or 
a process for the manufacture of coir products or bailing of coir Albre 
or coir yarn is being carried on or is ordinarily carried on , with 

or without the aid of power ; 
( g ) " notification " means a notification in the Gazette of India ; 
(h ) "officer " means an officer of the Board or of the Central Government ; 
(i) " person " includes a corporation , a Arm , an association of individuals 

and a cooperative society registered under any law relating to 

cooperative societies ; 
(j) " Secretary ” means the Secretary of the Board ; 

( k ) " year" means the year commencing on the 1st day of April. 
3 . Need for Registration . No person shall work a coir spindle or an industrial 
establishment unless it has been registered in accordance with these rules. 


4 . Application for registration . Every application for registration of a coir 
spindle or an industrial establishment shall be made to the Secretary or other 
officer authorised by him in Form I or Form II, as the case may be, within ninety 
days of the commencement of these rules or , in the case of a new coir spindle 
or industrial establishment, within ninety days of the date when it starts working : 

Provided that the Secretary or such officer may entertain any application made 
after the specified date if he is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not 
making the application in time. 

5 . Registration of new establishment. - No new industrial cstablishment shall 
be registered unless 
( a ) it is located in an arca declared by the Board by notification , to be 

an area where the coir industry is in a nascent state ; or 


(b ) it is proved to the satisfaction of the Secretary or other officer autho 

riscd by him that the plant and equipment installed in such establish 
ment were acquired from an industrial establishment which was in 


S£c . ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 1523 


existence at the commencement of these rules and which was regis 
tered , 


6 . Grant of certificate .- ( 1 ) On receipt of an application , the Secretary or such 
officer shall , after making such inquiry as he deems necessary , register the coir 
spindle or the industrial establishment, and issue a certificate in respect thereot 
in Form ID or Form IV , as the case may be . In the case of a spindle , a distinctive 
number shall be allotted to it in the certificate . 

Explanation . For the purpose of this sub - rule, each mechanical contrivance 
producing one string of yarn shall be considered as one spindle . 

( 2 ) The distinctive number allotted to a spindle in the certificate shall be 
marked on the spinale . 

7 . Period of validity . Every registration made under these rules shall be valid 
for the period ending the 31st March following and may , on application , be 
renewed for any period not exceeding one year at a time. 

8 . Application for renewal.- Every application for renewal of registration shall 
- in Form y or Form VI, as the case may be, be made within thirty days before the 
date of expiry and be accompanied by the certificate of registration already 
granted : 

Provided that the Secretary or other officer may entertain an application 
which is not made in time if he is satisfied that there was suficient cause for 
not making the application in time, 

9 . Fee . Every application for the registration or the renewal of registration 
of an industrial establishment shall be accompanied by a fee of Re. 1. No fee 
shall be charged on an application for the registration or the renewal of registra 
Hon of a eoir spindle . 

10 . Duplicate certificate . — Where a certificate of registration granted under 
these rules is lost or destroyed , the Secretary may, after making such inquiry 
as he deems necessary , issue a duplicate on payment of a fee of Re. 1. 

11 . Transfer of spindle , etc . — ( 1 ) Where a coir spindle or an industrial estab 
lishment or any plant or equipment installed in such establishment is transferred 
by way of salc , mortgage or otherwise the transferce shall, within a period of 
thirty days from the date of transfer , apply to the Secretary or other officer 
authorised by him for registering the transfer. 

( 2 ) Every such application shall be in Form VII or Form VIII, as the case 
may be. 

( 3 ) The Secretary or other officer shall, after making such inquiry as he 
deems nccessary , register the transfer and record an entry to that effect in the 
certificate of registration , 

12 . Change of place . - ( 1 ) If during the period when the registration of a 
coir spindle or an industrial establishment is in force , the owner thereof desires 
to change the place where such spindle or establishment is located , he shall apply 
to the Secretary or other officer authorised by him at least thirty days in advance . 

( 2 ) Every such application shall specify the new place and be accompanied 
y the certificate of registration already granted . 

( 3 ) The Secretary or other officer may, where he agrees to the change, enter 
se new place in the certificate of registration , 

13 . Power to call for additional information . — ( 1 ) The Secretary or other 
officcr authorised by him may require an applicant to furnish within a specified 
period such additional information as he may consider necessary for the purpose 
of the registration , and every such applicant shall be bound to furnish such 
Information within the specified period . 

( 2 ) The Secretary or such offlccr may , by order, refuse an application to 
register a coir spindle or an industrial establishment if the applicant fails to 
furnish the information or furnishes incorrect information : 

Provided that a copy of the order together with the reasons for the refusal 
shall be communicated to thc applicant. 

14 . Cancellation of registration . Where the Secretary or other officer is satisfied 
that any person hás obtained a certificate by furnishing incorrect information 


1524 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957./ ASADHA 29, 1879 


PAKE 


or that he has contravened any of the provisions of these rules or of the condi . 
tions mentioned in the certificate , the Secretary or such officer may , without 
prejudice to any other action that may be taken against such person , by order , 
cancel the certificate : 

Provided that before cancelling the certificate, the person concerned shall be 
given an opportunity to make his representations : 

Provided further that a copy of the order together with the reasons for the 
cancellation shall be communicated to the person concerned. 

15 . Appeal. - Any person aggrieved by an order under rule 13 or rule 14 
may , within thirty days from the date of receipt by him of a copy of the order , 
appeal to the Chairman , whose decision thereon shall be final. 

16 . Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, the Board may, 
by notification , exempt coir spindles or industrial establishments located in any 
specified area from the operation of these rules , either permanently or for a 
specified period and may from time to time, by like notification , extend such 
period 

17 . Registration and licensing of exports. No person shall, after the com 
mencement of these rules, export coir fibre , coir yarn or coir products unless 
her 

(a ) has been registered as an exporter , and 

( b ) has obtained an export licence, under these rules : 
Provided that this rule shall not apply to the Central Government or any 
person authorised by it to export coir fibre , coir yarn or coir products . 

18 . Registration of established exporters. Any person who has, in any of the 
three years immediately preceding the commencement of these rules, exported 
not less than twenty - five tons of coir yarn or coir products other than coir rope , 
or exported any quantity of coir fibre or coir rope, may be registered as an 
exporter of coir yarn , coir products other than coir rope or coir fibre or cois 
rope, as the case may be. 

19 . Other persons who may be registered . Any other person may be registered 
as an exporter 
( 1) of coir yarn if , during the period of twelve months immediately pre 

ceding the date of application , 
( a ) a minimum quantity of twenty - five tons of coir yarn has been 

rehankcd or baled in a factory owned or otherwise possessed by 

him and registered under the Indian Factories Act, 1948 , or 
( b ) he has had a total purchase turnover of one hundred tons of colr 

yarn ; 
( ii) of coir products other than coir rope, if during the period of twelve 

months immediately preceding the date of application , 
( a ) a minimum quantity of twenty - five tons of cair products other than 

coir rope has been actually manufactured in a factory owned or 
otherwise possessed by him and registered under the Indiaí 

Factories Act, 1948 , or 
(b ) he has had a total purchase turnover of one hundred tons of coi 

products other than coir ropc . 
Explanation . The total purchase turnover of a person shall be certified 

by a chartered accountant and be supported by a statement certified 
by the applicant showing thc individual purchase transactions during 
the period , the date of and the value of the goods covered by each 

transaction and the name and address of the seller; 
(lit ) of coir fibre or coir rope if he produces- - 
( a ) a certificate regarding his financial status from a scheduled bank , 

and 
( b ) a clearance certificate from the Income tax authorities or an attested 

copy of the income- tax verification certificate obtained from the 
Export - Import Department; 


. s ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1987 /ASADHA 29, 1879 1525 


Provided that the Chairman may , by notification , exempt from the opera 

tion of this rule any cooperative society the members of which aro 
owners of industrial establishments or any Central Cooperative 
Marketing Society . 


20. Applications for registration . - ( 1) Every application for registration as 
in exporter shall be made in Form IX to the Chairman or other officer autho 
rised by him and be accompanied by 

( a ) a certificate regarding financial status from a scheduled bank , and 


( b ) a clearance certificate from the Income-tax authorities or an attested 

copy of the income - tax verification certificate from the Export 
Import Department, 


and in the case of an application under rule 18 , also by 
( i) a certificate from a recognised trade association or chamber of com 

merce that the applicant satisfies the requirements of rule 18 ; or 
( li ) copies of bills of lading attested by steamer agents or other shipping 

documents attested by Customs authorities in respect of the mini 

mum quantity of twenty - five tons referred to in rule 18 . 
( 2 ) The applicant shall also be bound to furnish within the period specified 
in this behall such additional information in respect of the application as the 
Chairman or other officer may require, 

21 . Cancellation of registration . - If any person who has been registered as an 
exporter fails during a period of twelve consecutive months to export any quantity 
of the goods in respect of which he is registered or fails to comply with any of 
the provisions of these rules or if the Chairman is satisfied that such person has 
become disqualified to continue as an exporter , the Chairman may, after giving 
him a reasonable opportunity of making his objections, by order , cancel the 
registration , 

22 , Applications for licence . - Every application for a licence to export shall 
be made in Form X to the Chairman or other officer authorised by him and be 
accompanied by 
( a ) the shipping bill showing the particulars of the quantity , description 

and value of the goods sought to be exported and the name and 

address of the consignee, and 
( b ) a certificate from an officer of the Board authorised by the Chairman 

in this behalf or from a recognised chamber of commerce or trade 
association to the effect that the goods sought to be exported conform 
to the contract : 


Provided that the certificate referred to in item (b ) above shall not be 

required if the Board has fixed the standards under section 10 ( 2 ) ( e ) 
of the Act and the goods conformn to those standards. 


23 . Fee for licence . In respect of every licence fee shall be levied at the rate 
of Re. I per ton , subject to a maximum of Rs. 100 , of the goods (covered by the 
licence) : 

Provided that no fee shall be leviable in respect of a licence to export genuinc 
trade samples or ships stores. 

Explanation . In calculating the fee for a licence under this rule , any fraction 
of a ton shall be taken as a ton . 

24 . Grant of licence . - Every export licence shall be granted by the Chairman 
or other oflicer authorised by him in this behalf and be subject to such conditions 
as may be irnposed by him , 

26 . Period of validity of licence . - A licence granted under these rules shall 
be valid for a period of fifteen days from the date of its grant: 

Provided that the Chairman or such other officer may extend the period if 
he is satisfied that the failure to ship the goods was for reasons beyond the control 
of the exporter . 


1526 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957/ ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART II 


(a) the these rulescence. The ch 


26 . Returns by licensees . — Every person who has been granted an export 
Licence shall furnish in Form XI, XII or XIII, as the case may be, a statement 
showing the goods exported and the date of export so as to reach the Chairman 
or other officer authorised by him on or before the 15th of the month following 
the month in which the export was made, 

27. Licence not transferable. - A licence granted under these rules shall not 
be transferable . 

28. Cancellation of licence . — The Chairman may , by order, cancel a licence 
granted under these rules if 
( a ) the licensee fails to furnish the statement referred to in rule 26 within 

the specifled date ; 
(b ) if the licence has been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation ; 
( c ) if the licensee has committed a breach of any law relating to export 

of coir or coir products or of any of these rules or the conditions 

of licence : 
Provided that no licence shall be cancelled unless the licensee has been 

given an opportunity of making his representations: 
Provided further that a licence which has been cancelled under clause ( a ) 

may be restored if the Licensee furnishes the statement referred to 

in rule 26 and also pays a penalty of Rs. 10 , 
29 . Appeal. - Any person aggrieved by an order under rule 21 or rule 28 may , 
within thirty days of the date of receipt by him of a copy of the order , appeal 
to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports , whose decision thereon shall be 
anal . 

30 . Refund of fee. The Chairman may allow a refund of fee levied under 
these rules in the following cases , namely : 

( a ) where the fee has been paid in excess of the prescribed scale ; 
( b ) where the fee has been paid but no application has been made ; 
( c ) where the application is exempt from payment of fee ; and 
( d ) where the applicant is not eligible for registration or grant of licence 

under these rules. 
31 . Power to call for returns, etc . - - ( 1 ) The Board may, by general or special 
order , direct the holder of a certificate of registration or licence to maintain 
such records of his business in such form and manner as may be specified and to 
submit to the Board returns relating to his business in such form as may be 
specified in such order , 

(2 ) The Chairman or an officer authorised by him in writing may with a 
view to secure compliance with these rules 
( a ) require any holder of a certificate of registration or a licence to give 

any information in respect of his business ; and 
( b ) inspect any books, accounts or other documents relating to his 

business . 


SCHEDULE 

FORM I 
THE COIR INDUSTRY ( REGISTRATION & LICENSINC ) RULES , 1957 

( Vide Rule 4 ) 
Form of Application for the Registration of Coir Spindles 
1. Name of the applicant in full, 
2 . Name of the applicant s father . 
3 . Address of the applicant in full. 
4 . Address and boundaries of the building or 

place in which the spindles are placed for 
working (House No ., Kara or Desom , 

Pakuthy or Village , Taluk and District) , 
5 . No. of spindles for which registration is 

applied for , 


Sec . 5 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 1527 


6 . (a ) No. of persons engaged ( excluding 

hired labour ) . 
( b ) No. of hired labour engaged . 
7 . No . of days the spindles have been working 

during the previous year ( from 1st April to 

31st March ) . 
8 . Production of yarn out of such spindles in 

lbs. in the previous year (i. e., from 1st April 

to 31st March ) . 
9 . Variety of yarn produced ( e . g ., Anjengo , 

Mangadan , Aratory, etc ., with scorage ) . 
10 . Total number of spindles owned by the 

applicant at the time of application . 
11 . Whether the applicant has applied for the 

registration of any spindle in any other 
place of business, and if so, in which place 
and the register number of such Certificate . 


Declaration 
I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above 
information is correct and complete , that I am aware of the conditions of the 
Certificate of Registration and that I agree to abide by them . I also declare that 
I have not previously applied for the registration of the spindles mentioned in 
this application / I applied for such a Certificate on , . . . . . 
but was refused registration on . . . . . . . 
Station . .. . . . . . . .. 

Signature of the applicant. 
Date . 

NOTE . - A separato application should be sent in respect of each building or 
place in which the spindles are placed for working , whether in the same town 
or village or in different towns and villages . 


FORM II 
THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING) RULES , 1957 

(Vide Rule 4 ) 
Form of application for the Registration of an Industrial Establishment 
1. Name of the Industrial Establishment. 
2 . Address : 

( a ) Head Office. 
(b ) Factory . 
Ownership -- whether proprietory, partner 
ship , private limited , or public limited . 
Names of proprictors, partners, or Board of 
Directors and their addresses. 
Name and address of the owner of the 

factory in terms of Note ( 2 ) below . 
6 . Year of establishment . 
7 . Whether the establishment is registered 

under the Factories Act , and if so, the num 

ber and year of such registration . 
8 . It rehanking of coir yarn is done in the 

establishment, state the average quantity ( in 

cwts .) of coir yarn rehanked in a year. 
9 . Manufacturing activities : 

Whether continuous or seasonal. 
No. of shifts generally worked . 
No. of working days in any year . 


1528 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957/ ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART 1) 


Rugs , 


Other 
articles 


Ropor 


Mats Matting 

carpets, 

etc . 
10. Name of products manufactured , and capa 

city . 
11 . Average yearly production of such products 

( in cwts .) 
12. Nature of plant and equipment: 

( a ) Matting looms ( in different widths) . 
(b ) Dobby looms. 
( c ) Jacquard looms, 
( d ) Creel matting looms. 
( e ) Mat looms. 
( 1 ) Any other types of loom . 
( g ) Dutch mat frames , 
( b ) Beaming machines . 
( 1) Shearing machines . 
(1 ) Braiding machines . 
( k ) Sewing Machines . 
(1) Spray plant. 
( m ) Screw presses , 
( n ) Rolling machines . 
( 0 ) Stretching machines. 
( p ) Steam plant for dyeing. 
( q ) Direct heating plant for dyeing . 
( r ) . . . . . . 

Renewal Endorsement 


Date of renewal 

(1) 


Remark , 


Signature of 
registering 

authority 


Date of expiry 

( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


Transfer Endorsement 
1. Distinctive registration number of spindle 

transferred . 
2 . Name and address of the building or place in 

which the spindles are placed for working . 
3 . Date of transfer of such spindles. 
4 . No . of Certificate of Registration of new 

spindles got after the issue or renewal of the 

Certificate , 
$ . Date of addition of new spindles . 
6 . No. of registered spindles worked by the 

holder , 


Signature of registering 

authority 


Stc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20 , 1957/A3ADHA 29 , 1879 1529 , 


FORM III 


THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULÉS , 1957 

(Vide Rule 6 ) 

Certificate of Registration for Coir Spindles 
1. No. and date of the Certificate of Regis 

tration , 
2 . (i) Name of the person to whom the Certi 

ficate of Registration is issued . 
( ii ) His father s name. 

( iii ) His address in full. 
3 . Exact description and boundary of the pre 

mises where the spindles are worked . 
4 . ( i) Total pumber of spindles registered . 
( ii ) Distinctive number of spindles regis 
tered . 

Conditions of the Certificate of Registration 
1. The Certificate of Registration is granted subject to the provisions of tho 
Coir Industry ( Registration & Licensing ) Rules , 1957 . 

2 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall display his Certificate 
prominently at thc building or place in which the spindles are placed for working . 

3 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall not work any spindle 
which has not been registered and included in the Certificate . 

4 . The holder of the Certificate shall not work any spindle except at the 
place or places specified in his Certificate in this behalf . 

5 . The holder of the Certificate shall maintain correctly such records as may 
be prescribed by the Board . 

6 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall furnish correctly and 
completely such information as may be demanded of him and carry out such 
instructions as may from time to time be issued by or on behalf of the Board , 

7. The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall permit any officer of 
the Board authorised in this behalf to inspect the place where he is working 
the spindles and shall produce on demand by such officer such records as 
prescribed by the Board . 

FORM IV 
THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULES, 1957 

(Vide Rule 6 ) 
Certificate of Registration of Industrial Establishment 
1. No. and date of the Certificate of Regis 

tration . 
2 . Name of the industrial establishment. 
3 . Address ; 

( a ) Head Office . 

( b ) Factory 
4 . Name and address of the owner in relation 

to the Industrial Establishment in full. 

factory. 
5 . Name of products manufactured (Mats, 

Mattings , Rugs , Carpets, Ropes , ctc .) and / 
or other work done, like rehanking of coir 

yarn . 
6 . Nature of plant and equipment in the 

factory . 
(Here enumerate names of plant and 
equipment as in the application form .) 


31530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957/ AŞADHA 29, 1879 


[ PART II 


Conditions of the Certificate of Registration 
1 . The Certificate of Registration is granted subject to the provisions of the 
Coir Industry ( Registration & Licensing ) Rules, 1957. 

2 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall display his Certificate 
prominently at the industrial establishment 

3 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall maintain correctly such 
records as may be prescribed by the Board , 

4 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall furnish correctly and 
completely such information as may be demanded of him and carry out such 
Instructions as may from time to time be issued by or on behalf of the Board , 

5 . The holder of the Certificate of Registration shall permit any officer of 
the Board authorised in this behalt to inspect the industrial establishment and 
shall produce on demand by such officer such records as prescribed by the Board . 

Renewal Endorsement 

Signature of 
Date of renewal Date of expiry . registering Remarks 

authority . 
( 1 ) 

( 3 ) 


Transfer Endorsement 
1. Registration number of industrial estab 

lishment transferred . 
2 . IT whole establishment is not transferred , 

particulars of plant and equipment trans 
terred , and registration number of such 

establishment, 
3 . Date of transfer, 
4 . No . of Certificate of Registration of new 

plant and equipment got after the issue or 

renewal of the Certificate . 
8 . Date of addition of such new plant and 

equipment, 


Signature of registering 

authority . 


FORM V 
THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSINO ) RULES, 1957 

(Vide Rule 8 ) 
Form of application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration in respect of 

Coir spindles 
1. Name of applicant in full . 
2 . Father s name. 
3 . Full addregg . 
4 . No. and date of the Certificate of Regis 

tration . 
5 . No. of spindles for which renewal is 

required , 
6 . Distinctive number of spindles registered . 
7. Whether the Certificate of Registration is 

enclosed . 
Station . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signature of the applicant. 
Date . 


SEC. 9] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 15311 


FORM VI 
THE COIR INDUSTRY ( REGISTRATION & LICENSING) RULES, 1957 

( Vide Rule 8 ) 
Form of application for renewal of a Certificate of Registration in respect of an 

Industrial establishment 
1 . Name of industrial establishment. 
2 . Address : 

( a ) Head Office , 

( b ) Factory 
3 . Name and address of the owner of the indus 

trial establishment in terms of the Note 

below 
4 . No, and date of the Certificate of Registra 

tion . 
5 . Whether the Certificate of Registration is 

enclosed . 
Station . . . . . . . . . 

Signature of the applicant. - 
Date . 

NOTE . - Owner in relation to any industrial establishment means the person 
who, or the authority which , has the ultimate control over the affairs of the 
undertaking , and where the said affairs arc entrusted to a Manager, Managing 
Director, or Managing Agent, such Manager , Managing Director or Managing 
Agent shall be deemed to be the owner of the undertaking. 


FORM VI_ ..contd . 
13 . Labour employed 

Men 

Women 
Skilled . 
Semi- skilled 
Un-skilled . 

Declaration 
I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above 
information is correct and complete , that I am aware of the conditions of the 
Certificate of Registration and that I agree to abide by them . 
Station . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

Signature of the applicant. 
Date . .. .. . .... . .... .. 

. . . . . . . . . . . 
NOTE . --- ( 1 ) A separate application should be sent in respect of each industrial 
establishment. whether in the same town or village , or in different towns and 
villages . 

( 2 ) Owner in relation to any industrial establishment means the person 
who , or the authority which , has the ultimate control over thc affairs of the 
undertaking , and where the said affairs are cntrusted to a Manager , Managing 
Director , or Managing Agent, such Manager, Managing Director or Managing 
Agent shall be deemed to be the owner of the undertaking . 


FORM VII 
THE COIR INDUSTRY ( REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULES, 1957 

(Vide Rule 11 ) 
Application for registration of the transfer of ownership or possession of a Coir 

Spindle 
1. Name of the applicant in full. 
2 . Father s name. 


FI532 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART II 


3. Full address . 
4 . Number and date of the Certificate of Regis 

tration . 
5 . Total number of spindles worked and their 

distinctive numbers. 
6 . Address and boundaries of the building or 

place in which the spindles are proposed to 
be placed for working (House No., Kara or 
Desom , Pakuthy or Village , Taluk and 

District ) . 
- 7 . The distinctive numbers of spindles the 

transfer of registration of which are to be 

registered . 
: 8 . Name, address and place of business of the 

holder of the Registration Certificate from 
whose custody such transfer of the spindles 

Is made . 
9 . Reasons for such transfer . 


Declaration 
I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above 
Information is correct and complete and that the transfer of the above -mentiond 
spindles has been wilfully made by the transferor in my favour. 
Station . 

Signature of the applicant. 
Date . . . . . . . . 


FORM VIII 
THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULES, 1957 

(Vide Rule 11) 
- Application for registration of the transfer of ownership or possession of an 

industrial establishment, or plant and equipment installed in such establish 

ment : 
1 . Name of applicant in full . 
2 . Full address . 
3 . No , and date of the Certificate of Registra 

tion , 
4 . Name of industrial establishment and its 

address in full ; 
( a ) Head Omce. 

( b ) Factory 
5 . Particulars of plant and equipment trans 

ferred for which registration is required . 
6 . Ownership whether proprietory , partner 

ship, private limited or public limited , 
7. Names of proprietors , partners, or Board of 

Directors and their addresses , 
8 . Name of owner of factory in terms of Note 

( 1 ) below . 
9 . Reasons for such transfer , 


Declaration 
I do hereby declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the above 
Information is correct and complete and that the transfer of the above -mentiond 
industrial establishment has been wifully made by the transferor in my favour. 
: Station . . . . . 

Signature of the applicant 
? Date . .. . 


SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 1533 


NOTE --- ( 1 ) Owner in relation to any industrial establishment means the person 
who , or the authority which has the ultimate control over the affairs of the 
undertaking , and where the said affairs are entrusted to a Manager , Managing 
Director, or Managing Agent, such Manager , Managing Director or Managing 
Agent shall be deemed to be the owner of the undertaking . 


FORM IX 
TAE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULES , 1957 

(Vide Rule 20 ) 
form of application for Registration as an exporter of coir flbre, coir varn or 

coir products 
1. Name and address of the applicant. 
2 . Full particulars of the applicant : 

( a ) Year of establishment. 
( b ) Whether a Public Co ., a Private Co., a 

partnership or an individual firm , or a 

co -operative society . 
( c ) Names of proprietors , partners or 

Directors . 
( d ) Name and address of Manager /Manag 

ing Partner /Managing Director , who has 

control over the company s affairs. 
3 . Name of commodity which the applicant 

wishes to export ( coir fibre , coir yarn , coir 

products excīuding rope, or cotr rope) . 
4 . Whether the applicant is an established 

exporter or a new - comer . 
5 . If the applicant is an established exporter , 

the quantity ( in tons) of the particular 
commodity mentioned in item 3 which he 
has exported during the preceding three 
years, and the nature of evidence produced 

in support . 
6 . If the applicant is a new - comer, state : 
( a ) the No. and year of registration of the 

factory owned by him and the quantity 
of yarn rehanked or baled , or coir pro 
ducts manufactured in the preceding 12 
months ; 

Or 
( b ) the total purchases of coir yarn or coir 

products he has made in each year 

during the preceding 12 months. 
7 . Whether the applicant has produced 
( a ) Certificate from his bankers ( indicate 

name and address of Bank ) . 
( b ) Income- tax clearance Certificate ( indi 

cate No., date and year to which it 
relates ) . 


8 . Whether the applicant is a member of any 

Chamber of Commerce or Trade Associa 
tion ? If so, particulars should be given . 

Declaration 
I do hereby declare that what has been stated above is correct and completo , 
that I am aware of the conditions relating to the registration of an exporter and 


1534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


that I agree to abide by them . I also declare that I have not previously applied 
for registration / I applied for registration on . . . . . . . . 

. ., but was. 
refused registration . 


Station 


Signature of the applicant . 


Date . . . . . . . 


NOTE . --- ( 1 ) If the application is incomplete or defective in any respects, it is 
liable to be rejected summarily . 

( 2 ) Separate applications should be made in respect of registration as an 
exporter of ( a ) coir fibre, ( b ) coir yarn , ( c ) coir products excluding coir rope , 
and ( d ) coir rope, as the case may be. 

( 3 ) Proof of cxport may be furnished either in the form of a Certificate 
from a recognised Chamber of Commerce or Trade Association , or copies of bills 
of lading attested by steamer agents or other shipping documents attested by 
Customs Authorities . 

(4 ) Proof of purchase turnover should be furnished in the form of a Certificate 
trom a Chartered Accountant. 


FORM X 


TTE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RULES, 1957 

(Vide Rule 22 ) 


Form of application for the grant of export licence 
1. Name and address of the applicant, 
2 . Full particulars of the applicant: 

(a ) Year of establishment. 
( b ) Whether a Public Co., a Privato Co., a 

partnership or an individual firm , or a 
co -operative society . 
Names of proprietors, partners or 

Directors. 
(d ) Name and address of Manager /Manag 

ing Partner /Managing Director, who has 

control over the company s affairs . 
3. Register number given to the applicant by 

the Board , 
4 . Description of the articles desired to be 

exported , with quantity in tons and value. 
8 . Whether the following documents are 

attached : -- 
( a ) Shipping bill. 
( b ) Certificate from authorised officer or 

Chamber or Association regarding 
quantity and description ( including 

quality ) of goods intended for export. 
( c) Document evidencing payment of 

licence fees. 


SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 1535 


II 


. 4 . 


II . . . . 


. . IIII . 


Declaration 
I do hereby declare that what has been stated above is correct and complete , 
that I am aware of the conditions relating to licensing of exports and that I agrec 
to abide by them . 
Station . . 
Date. . .. . . . . . . . ... . ......, 

Signature of the applicant. 
NOTE. — - ( 1 ) If the application is incomplete or defective in any respect, it is . 
liable to be rejected summarily . 

(2 ) Separate applications should be made in respect of licences to export 
( a ) coir fibre , ( b ) coir yarn , ( c ) coir products excluding coir rope, and ( d ) coir 
rope , as the case may be. 

( 3 ) The cxport licence granted on shipping bills shall be valid for a period 
of 15 days from the date of endorsement unless otherwise specified , and exten 
sion in the period of validity of such endorements may be allowed for 15 days 
at a time for sufficient reasons. 


FORM XI 
THE COL INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING) Rules , 1957 

( V ide Rulo 26 ) 
Statement of particulars of Coir Fibre exported from India by licensee. .. . . . 
in the month of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . 


Port of ex- 

port 


Date of 
export 


Name of 

vessel 


Port to 
which cx 


Quality or 

grade 


Quantity 

( cwts ) 


F . O . B . 
Valuc 


ported 


Rs. 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


(7 ) 


Declaration 
I/We hereby declare that to the best of my/our knowledge and belief the above statement is 
true in all respects . 
Place . . . . . . 

Signature of licensce . 


1536 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


. 


[PART II 


IN 


FORM XII 
THE COIR INDUSTRY (REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) Rules , 1957 

( Vide Rule 26 ) 
Statement of particulars of Coir Yarn exported from India by licensee. . . .. . . . 
in the month of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 . , . . 


Port of 
export 


Date of 
export 


Name of 
veggel 


Port to 

which 
exported 


Quality or 

grade * 


Quantity 
( cwts) 


F . O . B . 
Value 
Rs. 


Declaration 
I/We hereby declare that to the best of my/our knowledge and belief the above statement 
is true in all respects . 
Place . . . . . 
Datc 

Signature of Ilçengec , 


* In Alling column 4 , care sliould be taken to specify the actual quality or description of yarn 
guch as Alapat , Anjengo, Aratory , Ashtamudy ,Mangadan , Vaikom , Beach , Rope yarn , Edavanam , 
Parur, Muppiri, Beyporc , Quilandy, Finç Unsoaked , MK and SMK . 


FORM XIII 


SBO.8] 


, 


THE COIR INDUSTRY ( REGISTRATION & LICENSING ) RLLES , 1957 

(Vile Rule 33 ) 
Statement of purriculars of Coir Praductsexported from India by licensee ... .. 

. . . .in the month of. . . . . . . . . . . 19 . . . . 
- - - - - - - - 

- - - - - 
Vessel in which Port to which Description of Quality * * Total quantity exported (in cifts) 
Date of export exported exported Coir products * 

- F .O .B . Value 
Manufactured Purchased from 
in licensed fac - other sources 
tory 

(8 ) 


Port of export 


( 1) 


Declaration 
I/We hereby declare that to the best of my our knowledge and belief the above statement is true in all respects. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1957/ASADHA29.18791537 


Place . . . . . . 
Date . . . . . 


Signature of licensee , 


* Uoder Col. s Description of coir products " specify whether mat,matting, rug , mourzoucks, bag net , rope tent components , etc . 


- 


* *Under col. 6 " Quality against mat, state whether brush , fibre , chain , or creel, or any other likewise against mattings , rugs and mour 

zoucks and other woven coir products , this should be described as plain , fancy , woven or stencilled . Against rope specify the dir 
cumference . 

[No. 42 - SSI ( B ) ( 55 ) / 54 .] 
M . S . SADASIVAN , Under Secy . 


1538 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29. 1879 


[PART II 


TEA CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 15th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2325 . — The following draft of an Order which it is proposed to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of section 30 
of the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953 ) , is published for the information of all persons 
likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be 
taken into consideration on or after 15th August 1957. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received with respect to the 
said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central Government, 


ORDER 


1. Short title and commencement. - ( 1 ) This Order may be called the Tea 
(Distribution and Export ) Control Order , 1957. 

( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may , 
by notification in the Official Gazette , appoint and different dates may be appoint 
ed for exporters and distributors or any class thereof. 
2 . Definitions. - In this Order , unless the context otherwise requires - - 

(a ) “ the Act" means the Tea Act, 1953 (29 of 1953 ) ; 
( b ) " Chairman " means the Chairman of the Tea Board and includes any 

person exercising for the time being the powers of the Chairman ; 


( c ) 


" distributor " with its grammatical variations and congnate expres 

sions means a person who is engaged in distributing manufactured 
tea for the purpose of sale and includes a packer engaged in packing 
and distributing manufactured tea for sale in India as principal or 

agent in unit containers of less than sixty pounds. 
Provided that a person who is engaged solely in distributing tea manufac 

tured by him shall not be deemed to be a distributor for the purposes 

of this Order ; 
( d ) " form " means a form appended to this Order ; 
( e ) " export" means to take out of India by land , sea or air to any place 

outside India ; 
( f) " licence " means a licence granted under this Order ; 
( g ) " licensing authority " means the Chairman ; 
( h ) " Tea Board " means the Tea Board established under section 4 of the 

Act. 
3 . Distributors and exporters to obtain licence. — No distributor or exporter 
shall carry on the business of distributing or exporting tea except under a licence 
and in accordance with the provisions of this Order : 

Provided that no licence shall be required for sale of gift parcels in India 
by the owner of a tea estate : 

Provided further that where an agent has taken out a licence his overseas 
principals shall not be required to take out a separate licence as exporters under 
this Order : 
Provided further that no licence shall be required for tea cxported 

( i) by or on behalf of the Central Government or the Tea Board ; 
( ii ) by means of postal parcel ; 
( iii ) as personal effects of passengers ; 
( iv ) for any non - commercial purposes ; 

( v ) for auctions abroad . 
4 . Application for licence . Every application for the grant of a licence shall 
be made in duplicate to the licensing authority in form A . 

5 . Form of licence . - - ( 1 ) Every licence granted under this Order shall be in 
form B and shall come into force immediately on being granted and shall, unless 


SEC. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 1539 


previously cancelled or suspended , expire on the 31st day of December , next 
following 


( 2 ) Every licence may be renewed from time to time by the licensing authority 
on application made to it in duplicate in form C . 

6 . Every application for the grant of a licence or renewal thereof shall be 
accompanied by the following fees (payable in cash ) , namely : 

Fees for licence for exporters 
First issue 

. . Rs. 50 
Renewal 

in Rs. 25 
Fees for licence for distributors 
First issue 

. Rs. 10 
Renewal 

. . Rs. 2 
7 . General conditions of licence. - ( 1 ) Every licence shall be deemed to have 
been granted or renewed personally to the licensec and no licence shall be sold 
or otherwise transferred . 

( 2 ) Whcre a licensee sells or otherwise transfers his business to another 
person the purchaser or transferee , as the case may be, shall obtain a fresh 
licence under this Order but it shall be granted free of fee for the residue of 
the period covered by the original licence . 

( 3 ) If the holder of a licence enters into a partnership in regard to the busi 
ness covered by the licence, he shall report the fact to the licensing authority 
within thirty days of his entering into such partnership and shall get the licence 
suitably amended . 

( 4 ) Where a partnership is entered into , the partner as well as the original 
holder of the licence shall be bound by the conditions of that licence . 

( 5 ) If a partnership is dissolved , cvery person who was a partner imme 
diately before such dissolution shall send a report of the dissolution to the licensing 
authority within thirty days thereof, 

( 6 ) Every licensee shall produce the licence for inspection on demand by any 
officer of the Tea Board duly authorised by the Chairman in this behalf , 

( 7 ) If during the currency of a licence the licensee desires to take any action 
which calls for modifications in the particulars furnished in the application on 
which the licence for the time bello in force has been issued , he shall intimate 
his intention to the licensing authorir at least 15 days in advance and get his 
licence guitably amended . The amendment shall be made free of fee and the 
amended licence shall be valid for the residue of the period covered by the 
original licence . 

8 . Distributors and exporters to comply with certain requirements in regard 
to packing , etc . - Every exporter and distributor shall, in regard to the packing 
and marking of containers of tea, comply with the following requirements, 
namely : - - 
( a ) every container in which tca is packed shall bear such particulars 

as may from time to time be specifled by the licensing authority ; 

and 
( b ) every container shall be so packed and sealed that the contents thereof 

cannot be tampered with without breaking the seal. 
9 . Restrictions on export and distribution of tea .- - No person shall himself 
or by any other person on his behalf export or distribute any tea 
( a ) which is not packed and marked in the manner laid down in this 

Order ; 
(b ) which is adulterated ; and 
( c ) the label or container whereof bears any statement which makes false 

claim for such tea or which is false or misleading in any material 

particular . 
Explanation . - Tca shall be deemed to be adulterated 
( a ) if such tea is not of the nature, substance or quality contracted to be 

exported or distributed ; 


1540 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29, 1879 


[Part 


exported or distributed ; or is not of the nature , substance or quality 

which it purports or is represented to be; 
( b ) if such tea contains any other substance which affects injuriously the 

nature , substance or quality thereof ; 
( c ) if any inferior or cheaper substance has been substituted wholly or 

in part for such tea so as to affect injuriously the nature , substance 

or quality thereof ; 
(d ) if such tea contains any poisonous or other ingredient which renders 

it injurious to health , 
10 . Suspension or cancellation of licence . - ( 1 ) If the holder of a licence has 
supplied incorrect information in his application or in any return submitted by 
him or if he contravenes any condition of the licence or any provision of this 
Order or if at any time the licensing authority is satisfied that for any other 
reason the licensee is not a fit person to hold a licence , such authority may , after 
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard , and without prejudice to 
any other action which may be taken against the licensee , cancel or suspend his 
licence . 

( 2 ) In any proceeding under sub - clause ( 1 ) the licensing authority shall be 
assisted by two assessors selected by that authority . 

( 3 ) Every order suspending or cancelling a licence shall be in writing and 
shall specify the reasons for the suspension or cancellation and shall be com 
municated to the licensee within fifteen days of the passing thereof. 

( 4 ) Any person aggrieved by an order cancelling or suspending a licence 
may , within a period of three months from the date of cancellation or suspension , 
as the case may be , appeal to the Central Government and the decision of tho 
Central Government shall be final. 

( 5 ) Where a licence is cancelled or suspended under this Order, the holder 
of the licence shall not be entitled to claim from the Tea Board or the Central 
Government any compensation or refund of licence fee for such cancellation 
or suspension , 


11. Taking of samples . The licensing authority may take or authorise any 
officer of the Tea Board to take any sample of not more than one pound in weight 
drawn from any stock held by any distributor or exporter for the purpose of 
obtaining a report from an expert whether such sample conforms to the requtre 
ments laid down for tea under this Order or under any other law for the time 
being in force . No fees shall be chargeable for testing the sample , 


12 . No compensation payable for samples taken . - - No distributor or exporter 
shall be entitled to any compensation for the samples taken under clause 11. 


13 . Maintenance of accounts, etc ., and production of such accounts , etc ., by 
distributors and exporters . - - ( 1 ) The licensing authority may issue directions to 
any distributor or exporter 
( a ) to maintain such records of his purchases , sales , exports or other matters 

connected with his business and in such form as may be specified in 

the direction ; 
( b ) to submit to such authority returns or statements in such form and 

containing auch information relating to his business and within 

such time as may be specified in the direction ; and 
( c ) to produce for inspection to such officer of the Tea Board as may be 

authorised in this behalf by the licensing authority such books, 
accounts and records relating to his business as may be specified in 

the direction . 
( 2 ) Any direction of the nature referred to in sub -clause ( 1 ) may be issued 
generally to all distributors or exporters or to any class thereof . 

14. Service of orders and directions. Any order or direction made or issued 
by the licensing authority or by any other authority under this Order shall 
( A ) in the case of an order of a general nature or affecting a class of persons, 

be notified in the Official Gazette ; and 


Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 1541 


(b ) in the case of an order directed to a specified individual, be served 

on such individual 
(1) by delivering or tendering it to that individual; or 
( fi ) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered by affixing it on the outer 

door or some other conspicuous part of the premises in which 
that individual lives and a written report thereof shall be prepared 
and witnessed by two persons living in the neighbourhood , 


15 , Power of entry etc . ( 1 ) The licensing authority or any officer of the Tea 
Board specially authorised by him in writing in this behalf may enter and search 
at any time any land , building, premises, vehicles , vessels, aircraft or plant or 
machinery upon or in which the licensing authority has reason to believe that 
tea or any product of tea is stored , carried, distributed or sold in contravention 
of the provisions of this Order and may seize any tea or product of tea which 
appears to be stored , carried, distributed or sold in contravention of the provisions 
of this Order. 


( 2 ) Any officer taking action under this clause shall submit a report to the 
licensing authority within twenty - four hours of the taking of such action . 


FORM A 


( See Clause 4 ) 


Application for licence under clause 4 of the Tea ( Distribution and Export) 

Control Order , 1957 


ORIGINAL * 
DUPLICATE 


To 


The Licensing Authority , 

Tea Board , 
27 & 29, Brabourne Road , 

Calcutta - 1. 
Sir , 

I/We* apply for a licence to carry on business in manufactured tea as 
Distributor * / Exporter. 

I /We* furnish the necessary particulars below : 
1. Name of applicant ( in block letters ) (in 

the case of a partnership concern the 
names of all the partners should be given ) . 


2 . Full address ( to 

should be sent ) . 


which 


correspondence 


3 . Nature of licence required . 


Distributor s Licence * / Exporter s Licence. 


4 . Full address of the various premises , if any, 

in which the applicant intends to do busi 
Dess , or where blending and / or packing will 
be done. 


5 . Proprietary marks. 


1542 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


6 . Amount of fees pald , 


I/ We have carefully read and understood the Tea (Distribution and Export ) 
Control Order , 1957 , and hereby agree to abide by the provisions of the said 
Order, 

Yours faithfully , 


Signature (s ) of applicant (s ). 


Place . . . . . . . 
Date . . . . . . . 

(* Score out the word not applicable.) 

NOTE . ( 1 ) . — This application should be signed , in the case of Companies by 
the Secretaries or Agents or Managing Agents, and in the case of partnership 
concerns by one of the authorised partners, and in the case of individuals the 
words Sole Proprietor should be appended after signature. 

NOTE (2 ). — The application should be sent to the licensing authority in 
duplicate . 


FORM B 


[See Clause 5 (1 ) ] 


TɛA BOARD 


Licence for carrying on business as Distributor /Exporter 

(Not transferable ) 
[Issued under Clausc 5 ( 1 ) of the Tca ( Distribution and Export ) Control Order, 

1957 ] 


27 & 29, Brabourne Road , 

Calcutta - 1. 


Dated . . . . . . . . . . 
Licence No.. . 


( In case of renewal, old Licence No.. . . . . . . . . . . . and date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . 


Shri/ Sarvashri* . . . . . . . 
of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . : : : : : . is / arer nerepy 
authorised to carry on business in manufactured tea as Distributor / Exporter * in 
terms of the Tea ( Distribution and Export ) Control Order , 1957 , 


. 


. 


! 


! ! 


This licence is valid upto and including 31st December . . . . . . . 
unless cancelled or suspended before that datc under Clausc 10 of Tea ( Distribution 
and Export ) Control Order , 1957. 

Chairman , Tea Board , 

Licensing Authority . 


(* Score out the word not applicable .) 


Sec . $ ] 


, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 1543 


FORM C 


[ See Clause 5 ( 2 ) ] 


Application under Clause 5 ( 2 ) of the Tea (Distribution and Export) Control 

Order , 1957 , for renewal of licence 


( To be sent to Licensing Authority in duplicate .) 


ORIGINAL * 


DUPLICATE 


то 


The Licensing Authority , 


Tea Board , 


27 & 29, Brabourne Road , 


Calcutta - 1 . 


Sir , 


I /We apply for the renewal of Distributor s / Exporter s Licence No . . . 
dated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . issued by you , which is returned herewith . 
I /We furnish the necessary particulars below : 


1 . Name of applicant ( in block letters ) ( in 

case of a partnership concern the names 
of all the partners should be given ) . 


2 . Full address ( to 

should be sent ) . 


which 


correspondence 


3 . Nature of licence required. 


4 . Full address of the various premises , if any , 

in which the applicant intends to do busi 
ness , or where blending and / or packing will 
be done. 


5 . Proprietary marks. 


6 . Amount of fees paid , 


1544 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA ; JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


I /We* have carefully read and understood the Tea (Distribution and Export ) 
Control Order , 1957 , and hereby agree to abide by the provisions of the said 
Order . 

Yours faithfully, 


. . . . 


. . . . 


Signature (s ) of applicant ( s ). 


Place . . . . . . . . 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


(* Score out the word not applicable.) 


NOTE . — This application should be signed in the case of Companies by 
the Secretaries or Agents or Managing Agents , and in the case of partnership 
concerns by one of the authorised partners, and in the case of individuals the 
words Sole Proprietor should be appended after signature . 

[No. 32 ( 11 ) Plant( A ) / 56 . ): 


New Delhi, the 16th July 1957 


S . R . O . 2926 . - The following draft of certain amendments to the Tea Rules, 
1954, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by section 49 of the Tea Act, 1953 ( 29 of 1953 ) , is published as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to 
be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into 
consideration on or after the 15th August , 1957. 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date speciiled above will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
To sub - rule ( 1) in rule 5 of the said rules, the following provlso shall be 
added , namely :- - 
" Provided that a Member of Parliament appointed to the Board in pursuance 

of clause ( b ) of rule 4 shall cease to be a member of the Board if he 
ceases to be a Member of the House from which he was appointed ." 

[No. 8 ( 7) Plant ( A ) / 57.) 
P . V. RAMASWAMY, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 16th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2327 . - In exercise of the powres conterred by sub - clause ( 1) of Clause 5 
of the Cotton Textiles ( Export Control) Order , 1949 , the Central Government: 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the Notification No. S . R . O . 
1317 dated the 9th June, 1956 , namely : 


In the said Notification , in the first proviso to paragraph 1 . after the words 

" each piece of such cloth " the words " and, in the case of Terry 
Towels, every towel or a collection of such towels upto a maximum 
of six packed together in a single bundle " , shall be inserted . 


[No. 26 (26 ) - TEX (A ) /57- 3.) 
V . V. NENE, Under Secy . 


SEC . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / AŞADHA 29 , 1879 1545 


Indian Standardı Institution 

Delhi, the Ist July 1957 
S . R . O . 2328 In pursuanco of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution 
hercby notifies that the Indian Standerde particulars of which are given in the Schedule | here 
to annexod , have been established during the period 16th to 30th June, 1957 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. No . 


No. and title of the Indian No . and title of the 
Standard established Indian Standard or 

Standards, if any, 
superseded by the new 
Indian Standard 


Brief Particulars 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3 ) 


1 . 


IS : 712 - - 1956 Specification for 

Building Limes 


2 . IS : 964 – 1956 Mothods for 

Chemical Analysis of Silver 
Solder 


3 . 


IS : 1041 — 1957 Specification 

for Box Back Blanks for 
Juto Looms 


This standard covers the chemical 
and physical requirements for 
three classes of limo used in 
building construction (Prico 

Rs. 3 . 00 ) 
This standard covers the methods 

of doternination of silver , 
copper , cadmium and zinc 
which are the constituents 
of silver solder . (Price Ro. 

I 00 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

requirements for box back 
blanks for jute looms, 

(Price Re. I . 00 ) 
This standard prescribes tho 

requirements and the methode 
of test for nicotino gulphato 
solution extensively used in 
the control of insect pests 
of Agricultural importance . 
(Price Rs. 1 50 ). 


4 . 


IS - 1055 — 1957 Specification 

for Nicotine Sulphate 
Solution 


Copics of these Indian Standards arc available for sale with the Indian Standards Institution 
19 , University Road , Delhi- 8 , and its branch offices at 40 /40A Cawasji Patel Street Fort, Bombay. 
P - II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta and 23 - G , Nungambakkam High Road , Madras . 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Diroctor (Marks), 
Indian Standarda Institution . 

[No. MDC / 11(4 ). ] 


R . O . 2329. -- In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 the Indian Standard 

ucreby JO110es that amendments to the Indian Standards given in the Schedule hereto annexed have been issued under the powers ou 
Sub - regulation ( I ) of regulation 3 of the said regulations . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Ne 


SL. 
No . 


No. and title of the Indian 

Standard amended 


ne standardele ethe Indian 


Ne tand dating app 


No. and date of 

Amendment 


noi and date of 


Brief particulars of Amendment 


Brief particulars ofAmendment 


Date of effect 
of the amendment 


of Patienterne 


No. and date of 
Gazette Notifica 
tion in which the 
establishment of the 
Indian Standard was 

notified 


1546THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1957/ASADHA29,1879 


3 


I 


IS : 261- 1950 

for Copper 
Technical 


Specification 

Sulpbate , 


S . R . O . 658 dated 
26 March 1955. 


No. 
I June, 1957. 


16th July 1957. 


Clause 4 . 2 providing for an upper 
limit in size of copper sulphate crys 
tals has been deleted . 


2 


IS : 340 - 1952 

tion for Varnish , 


Specifica 

Mixing. 


S . R . O . 658 dated 

26 March , 1955 . 


No. I 
June , 1957 


J5th July 1957 


An additional characteristic , ash , 

percent by weight, max , has been 
introduced in Table I as SI. 
No. (ix ), the requirement being 0 . 5 
and the test being conducted as pres 
cribed in clause 15 of IS : 197 – 
1952 . The exsiting serial numbers 
( ix ) and ( * ) have been renumbered 
as (x ) and ( ) respectively . 


RI 


3 


IS : 708 – 1956 Specifica 
tion for Potesium Chlo 
rate , Technical 


S . R . O . 1257 dated 
2 June 1956 . 


No . 1 

June , 1957 . 


15th July 


1957. 


A new clause 4 . 3 . 1 has been introduc 
ed giving the optional defence require 
ment for Bromates ( as K 
K BO ) in Grade I as 0 . 02 per 
cent by weight, maximum instead 


(PARTII 


of 0 . 05 percent , as given in col 3 
of Table I against serial number 


SEC.3] 


Copies of these amendment slips are available , free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution , 19 University Road , Delhi- 8 and its branch 
offices at 40 / 40A Cawasji Patel Street, Fort , Bombay, P - 11 Mission Row Extension , Calcutta and 23 - G Nungambakkam High Road , Madras - 6 . 


D . V . KARYARRAR , 


Deputy Director (Marks). 

[No. MDC/11(4).] 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JULY20,1957/ASADHA29,18791547 


1548 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


RT S . R . O . 2330 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - regulations (2 ) and ( 3 ) of regulation 
31of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Stan 
dards Institution hereby notifies the issue of a corrigenda slip , particulars of which are given in co 
lumn (4 ) of the Schedule hercto annexcd , in reapect of the Indian Standard specified in column 
( 2 ) of the Raid Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 


No. 


Particulars of Corrigenda Slip 

lagued 


No , and title of Indian Standard No. and date ofGa- 

zette Notification in 
which establishment 
of tho Indian Stan 
dard was notified 


3 


I 


S . R . O . 1957 dated 
14 July , 1956 . 


IS : 694 - 1955 Specification for 

PVC Cables and Cords for 
Electric Power and Lighting 
for Working Voltages up to 
and including 650 Volts to 
Earth ( Tentative ). 


Tablo XIII on page 21 and table 
XXVIII on page 12 relating 
to flexible cords having Ic 
duced thicknces of insulation 
have been deleted and the 
remaining tables renumbered 
with consequential changes . 
Clause 10 . 6 1 2 on page 
II has been deleted , as well 
as the words " except flexible 
cords with reduced thickness 
of insultation " in clause 
10 . 6 . 1 I on pago II . The 
second item of Table XXV 
on page 10 and the first 
item of Table XXXI on page 
22 with all entries against 
them have been deleted . 


Copics of this corrigenda slip are avallable , free of cost, with the Indian Standards Institution 
19 University Road , Delhi- 8 and its branch offices at 40 / 40A Cawasji Patel Street , Fort Bombay 
P - II Mission Row Extension , Calcutta and 23- G , Nungambakkam High Road , Madras - 6 . 


D . V . KARMARKAR, 


Deputy Director (Marks). 


[No.MDC /II ( 10 ). ! 


Delhi, the 2nd July 1957 


S . R . O . 2331. - - In pursuance of the provisions of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Rules 1955, the Indian Stand 
ards Institution hereby notifies that the Indian Standards given in the Schedule 
hereto annexed have been established during the quarter ending 30th June 1957. 


Szc. 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29 , 1879 1549 


tur 


THE SCHBDULE 


Title of 


Indian 


Standard 


No . 


No. of Indian 
Standard 


I. IS : 193 - 1956 
2 . IS : 307 - 1956 
3 . IS : 309- 1950 
4 . IS : 633 - 1956 
5 . IS : 654 - 1957 
6 . IS : 712 - 1956 
7 . I$ : 736 - 1956 


8 . IS : 775 - 1956 


9 . IS : 780 - 1956 
10 . IS : 782 - 1957 
II. IS : 786 - 1956 
12 . IS : 800 - 1956 


13 . IS : 873 - 1956 
14 . TS : 874 - 1956 
15 . IS ; 886 - 1957 
16 . IS : 888 - 1956 
17 . IS : 889 - 1957 
18 . IS : 890 - 1957 
19 . IS : 891 -1957 
20 . IS : 892- 1957 
21 . IS : 893 - 1957 


. Specification for Soft Solder (Revised ) 
• Specification for Carbon Dioxide , Industrial 
• Specification for Compressed Oxygen Gas , Industrial 

Specification for DDT Emulsifiable Concentratos 
Specification for Clay Roofing Tiles , Mangalore Pattern 
Specification for Building Limcg 
Specification for Wrought Aluminium & Aluminium Allovs , Plate 

( For General Engincering Purposes ) 
Specification for Brackets & Supports for Lavatory Basing and 

Sinks . 
. Specification for Slujcc Valves for Water Works Purposes 

Specification for Caulking Lead 
. Conversion Factors and Conversion Tables 
. Code of Practice for Use of Structural Steel in General Building 

Construction 
• Specification for Liquid Glucose 

Specification for Dextrose Monohydrate 
Dimensions for Screw Threads (Below 6 mm ) 
Specification for Ilollow Ground Razors , Open Type 

Specification for Handloom Worsted Bunting, Cloth , Heavy 
. Specification for Handloom Worsted Bunting , Cloth , Light 

Specification for Handloom Worsted Shirting 
Specification for Handloom Woollen Blankets, Natural Grey 
Specification for Handloom Woollen Blankets, Ordinary , Plain or 

Check 
Specification for Handloom Woollen Blankets , Superior, Scarlet 

(Red ) 
Specification for Handloom Woollen Blanketing Cloth 
Specification for Handloom Woollen Kamblics , Loomstate 
Specification for Coir Fibre ( Tentative ) 

Methods for Chemical Analysis of Silver Solder 
• Method for Determination of Colour Fastness of Textile Materials 

to Sublimation 
Method for Determination of Colour Fastness of Textile Materlals 

to Mercerizing 
Method for Determination of Colour Fastness of Textile Materials 

to Stoving 
Mcthod for Determination of Colour Fastness of Textilc Materials 

to Acid Milling 
- Specification for Valve Grinding Paste 

Specification for Triple Superphosphate 
. Methods of Sampling and Test for Oil Tanned Leathers 

Specification for Chamois Leather 

Specification for Caustic Soda , Pure 
. Specification for Kotka Phosphate 
. Specification for Dicalcium Phosphate 
- Specification for Silicon Bronze Ingots and Castings 


22 . IS : 894 - 1957 


49 


. 


23 . IS : 895 -1957 

IS : 896 - 1957 
25. IS : 898 - 1957 
26 . IS : 964 - 1956 
27. IS : 975 - 1956 


28 . IS : 979 - 1957 


29 . IS : 980- 1957 


30 . IS : 981- 1957 


31. IS : 1904 - 1956 

IS : 1013 - 1956 
IS : 1916 - 1956 
IS : 1017 - 1957 

IS : 1021 - 1956 
36 . IS : 1022- 1956 
37. IS : 1023 - 1956 
38 . IS : 1023 - 1956 


1550 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


Si. 
No. 


No, of Indian 

Standard 


Title of Indian Standard 


39 . IS : 1029 - 1956 
40 . IS : 1036 - 1957 


41. IS : 1041- 1957 
42 . IS : 1042 - 1957 
43. IS : 1043- 1957 
44 . IS : 1045 - 1957 


- Specification for Hot Rolled Steel Strips (Baling ) 

Specification for 6 - Volt Accumulator -Operated Community Radio 

Receivers 
Specification for Box Back Blanks for Jule Looms 
. Specification for Boards for Lay Races of Jute Looms 
. Specification for Blanks for Lay Blocks for Jute Looms 
Specification for Cotton Fabric for Covering Plywood in Air-. 

craft 
, Specification for Alcohol, Perfumery Grade 
. Specification for Nicotine Sulphate Solution 

Specification for Water for Storage Batteries 
Specification for Distilled Water. 


45. I $ : 1049 - 1957 
46 . IS : 1055 - 1957 
47 . IS : 1069 - 1957 
48. IS : 1070- 1957 


D . V . KARMARKAR, 
Deputy Director (Marks ) . 

[No. MDC / 11 (2 ) . B 


Delhi, the 5th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2332 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Izstitution (Certification Marks) Regulation , 1995 , 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that two Licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been granted 
authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sec.5) 


Period of Validity 

- 
From 


Article(s)/ Process covered 

by the Licence 


Si. Licence No . – 
No , and date 


Relevant 
Indian Standard 


Name and Address of the 

licensee 


TO 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - 


- - - - - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - -- -- - - 


- - - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


THEGA, 


16 - 7 - 1957 


15 - 7 - 1958 


I CM / L - 28 

26 - 6 - 1957 


M / s . Amco Batteries Private ) Lead - Acid Storage Batteries for 

Ltd . ,Mysore Road , Bangalore Motor Vehicles , Light Duty . 
City . 


IS : 395 - 1952 Specification for Irod 

Acid Storage Batteries for Motor 
Vehicles , Light Duty . 


2 CM /L - 29 

1 - 7 - 1957 


16 -7 - 1957 


15 -7 - 1958 


M /s. Geigy Insecticides (1) DDT Dusting Powders 

Private Ltd ., 135 , Dr. Annie 
Besant Road , Worli , Bom - (2) DDT Water Dispersible 
bay - 18 . 

Powder Concentrates. 


IS : 564 - 1955 Specification for DDT 

Dusting Powders . 
IS : 565 - 1955 Specification for DDT 
Water Dispersible Powder Concen 
trates. 


OF. 


A: 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director (Marks) 

[No. MDC/ 11 (12).] 


Y20,.. 


(A 


RM 


1552 


GX 


OF . 


A : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


New Delhi, the 11th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2333 . - - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 140 of the Trade Marks 
Rules , 1942, it is hereby notified that in exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
rule ( 1 ) of the said rule , the Central Government has caused the following alter 
ation to be made in the Agent s Register in respect of the business address of 
Shri Romesh Chand Chadha , a registered agent namely : 
C / . London Commercial Corporation , Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys, 
Aminabad (Park Gunga Nawab ) , Lucknow (U . P . ) . 

[No. 7 ( 14 ) TMP /57 .] 
V . PRAKASH , Under Secy , 


Department of Heavy Industries 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2334 . - / IDRA / 6 / 9 / Am ( 1 ) . - In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) 
the Central Government hereby appoints Sri Har Sahai Gupta , Sahaspur , Bilari, 
Moradabad , as a member of the Development Council established by the Order of 
the Government of India in the late Ministry of Heavy Industries S . R . O . No. 958 / 
IDRA / 6 / 9 , dated the 19th March , 1957, for the scheduled industries engaged in the 
manufacture and production of Internal Combustion Engines and Power Driven 
Pumps and Air Compressers and Blowers , and directs that the following amend 
ment shall be made in the said Order , namely : 


In paragraph 1 of the said Order under the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government are capable of 
representing the interests of consumers of goods manufactured or 
produced by the said scheduled industries" after entry No. 16 relating 

to Shri Viswanath Rai the following entry shall be inserted, namely : 
" 17. Shri Har Sanal Gupta , M .L .A ., Sahaspur - Bllari, Moradabad , ( U .P .) " 

[No. 5 ( 4 ) IA (II ) ( G ) / 57 . ] 
CORRIGENDUM 


S . R . O . 2338 . - In the late Ministry of Heavy Industries S . R . O . 958 / IDRA / 6 / 0 , 
dated the 19th March 1957, published in the Gazette of India Part II — Section 3 
dated the 23rd March 1957: - 
For Shri J. C . Kapur, M / s Air Conditioning Corporation Limited, E - 2, Clive 

Buildings, 8 , Netaji Subhas Road , Calcutta. 
Read Shri J . C . Kapur, Director, Air Conditioning Corporation Private 
Limited , Construction House, Ballard Estate , Bombay . 

[No. 5 (4 ) IA (II ) (G ) /57.] 
B . B . NAG , Under Secy . 


Department of Commerce and Light Industries 

RUBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1957 
S .R .O . 2336 .- Shri K , N . Kalmal, Rubber Production Commissioner under the 
Rubber Board , was granted earned leave from the 2nd , May to the 27th June, 
1957 (both days inclusive ) . 


Shri Kaimal resumed his duties as Rubber Production Commissioner with 
effect from the forenoon of the 28th June, 1957 . 

[No. 28 ( 14 ) Plant( B ) / 56 .) 
A , K , CHAKRAVARTI, Under Secy . 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 80 , 1957/ ASADHA 29 , 1879 


1553 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 

(Department of Ciyll Aviation ) 

New Delhi, the 10th July 1957 
S. R . O . 2337. — The following draft of further amendments to the Indian Air 
craft Rules , 1937, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by Section 5 of the Indian Aircraft Act, 1934 ( 22 of 
1934 ) , is published , as required by section 14 of the said Act, for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby given that 
the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 12th October , 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to the said draft before the date so specificd, will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules - - 

1 . In Rule 20 for the words and figures " Rules 5 , 6 , 7 , 12 , 15 , 17 , 19 and 25 
shall not apply to gliders " , the following shall be substituted , namely : " Rules 
6 and 7 shall not apply to gliders " . 

2 . For Rules 49 to 60 in Part VI - Airworthiness and Schedule III , the follow 
ing Rules and Schedule shall respectively be substituted , namely : 

REVISED INDIAN AIRCRAFT RULES 


PART VI. — AIRWORTHINESS 
49. Issue of Certificate of Alrworthiness . ( 1 ) A certificate of airworthiness 
may be issued by the Director General in respect of an aircraft provided that such 
an aircraft has been constructed under the certificate of type approval isslied 
in accordance with sub - rule (2 ) below . 

( 2 ) ( a ) The Director General may issue to a manufacturer a certificate of 
type approval in respect of such types of aircraft or aircraft components as the 
Director General specifies in the Certificate . 

( b ) For the purpose of this Rulc every aircraft and every aircraft compo 
nent shall conform to the type design which permits its identification in detail 
and which consists of such drawings, specifications, reports and other data as, 
in the opinion of the Director Gencra ), are necessary to establish that the design 
complies with the requirements under the International standards and recom 
mended practices and procedures adopted from time to time in pursuance of the 
Convention on International Civil Aviation signed at Chicago in 1944 and / or as 
prescribed by the Director General as notified by him in the official gazette . 

( c ) An applicant for a certificate of type approval shall submit with the 
application such data , including drawings , representing the design , material, 
specifications, construction and performance of the aircraft or aircraft compo 
nent, as the case may be, as the Director General requires. 

( d ) At any time, during manufacture or after completion , the Director 
General may require the aircraft or aircraft components , as the case may be, to 
be subjected to such inspection and tests as he considers necessary . 

( e ) A certificate of type approval may be amended or revoked at any time 
by the Director General where a reasonable doubt exists regarding safety . 

50. The following provisions shall be applicable with respect to the issuance 
of a certificate of airworthiness : 
( a ) Bach aircraft shall be provided with a flight manual, placards or other 

documents stating the approved limitations within which the aircraft 
is considered airworthy and additional instructions and information 
necessary for the safe operation of the aircraft as approved by the 
Director Gencral. 


(b ) Such particulars relating to the aircraft in respect of which the certi 

fcate is issued , as may be determined by the Director General, 
shall be specified in the certificate or other documents which may be 
işsued or approved by the Director General with the certificate . 


1554 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[ PART 1 


( c ) The certificate shall be issued on such conditions as the Director General 

may think fit. 
( d ) The particulars specified in clause ( b ) above may, from time to time, 

be varied by the Director General on sufflçient grounds being shown 

to his satisfaction . 
( e ) The conditions specificd in clause ( c ) above may , from time to time, 

be varied by the Director General if he is satisfied that they may 
be relaxed or that reasonable doubt exists whether they afford a 

sufficient margin of safety . 
(f ) In this sub -rule , " Aircraft components mean aircraft engines , pro 

pellers , instruments , equipment and accessories. 
51, Acceptance of foreign standards — The Director General may , in respect 
of any aircraft , accept as evidence of compliance with the conditions of rule 49 . 
a valid certificate of airworthiness issued under the laws of any foreign country 
and may , subject to such conditions and for such period as he may think fit , 
issue a validation on that certificate as if it had been issued under the provisions 
of rules 49 & 50 , or may, if he thinks fit , issue a certiicate of airworthiness 
in respect of the aircraft under the said provisions. 


52. Catez ories and sub - divisions. - A certificate of airworthiness may be issued 
in respect of one or more of the categories and sub -divisions of aircraft specified 
in Section A of Schedule III and the operation of the aircraft shall be restricted 
to the categories and sub -divisions cndorsed on the Certificate . 

53. Instruments , equipment and safety devices for aircraft -- Every aircraft 
shall, when flying or about to fly , be fitted or equipped with : 

( i) an Air Speed Indicator , 
( ii ) an Altimeter, 
( iii) a Magnetic Compass , 
( iv ) a Fuel Pressure Indicator for each engine supplied by a pressure fuel 

system , 
( v ) Fuel Quantity Indicators, 
(vi) A Manifold Pressure Indicator for each engine where the proper con 

trol of engine power necessitates the use of such indicators , 
(vii ) an Oli Pressure Indicator for each cngine, 
( viii) a Tachometer for each engine, and 
( ix ) instruments , equipment and safety devices specified in Section B of 

Schedule III. The instruments and equipments shall be of types ap 
proved by the Director General and shall be installed in a manner 
approved by him and shall be maintained in working order for 

immediate use , 
54 . Weight.-- Every aircraft which is required by these Rules to be certified as 
airworthy shall be weighed and marked in accordance with the provisions of 
Section C of Schedule III. The centre of gravity shall also be determined at 
the same time. 

55. Perlod of validity of certificate of airworthiness.-- Subject to these Rules , 
a certificate of airworthiness shall remain valid for such period not exceeding one 
year from the date of issue as specified in the certificate , provided that in the 
case of damage to the aircraft such as renders it unsafe for fight, or of failure 
to carry out the inspection and overhaul prescribed in these Rules , or of failure 
to carry out any compulsory modification directed by the Director General, or on 
incorporation of any modification affecting safety which has not been approved 
by the Director General, the certificate shall cease to be valid until the air 
craft has been repaired or modified , as the case may be, and inspected and cer 
tified as required by these Rules . 


58 . Renewal of certificate of alrworthiness . — The Director General may , from 
time to time, renew any certificate of airworthiness for a period not exceeding one 
year at a time and may for this purpose require the aircraft to be overhauled , 
Inspected and certified in accordance with rule 57, and in addition may require the 
aircraft to be inspected by a person authorised in this behalf by the Director 
General or tested in flight, or to be so inspected and so tested and the owner of 
the aircraft shall give all necessary facilities for such inspection and test . 


SEC , 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /AŞADHA 29, 18791555 


57 - A . Periodical overhaul and maintenance schedules . ( 1 ) Every aircraft re 
quired by these Rules to be provided with a certificate of airworthiness shall be 
maintained and periodically overhauled . All work carried out in connection with 
the maintenance schedules shall be inspected and certified in the relevant log 
books by persons appropriately licensed under rule 61. After every overhaul and 
after the completion of repairs or modifications, the aircraft shall be inspected 
and certified in accordance with the provisions of Section E of Schedule III. 

( 2 ) Every public transport aircraft shall be maintained and overhauled at an 
engineering organisation approved for the purpose by the Director General. The 
maintenance and overhaul shall be carried out in accordance with the maintenance 
manual or maintenance and overhaul schedules prepared by the owner and ap 
proved by the Director General, 

( 3 ) The maintenance manual referred to in sub - rule ( 2 ) above shall give the 
following information : 
(i ) Procedures including schedules and their implifications for servicing and 

maintenance . 
( ii) The frequency of each check , overhaul or inspection . 
( iii) The duties and responsibilities of various classes of skilled maintenance 

personnel. 
( iv ) The servicing and maintenance methods which may be prescribed or 

which may require the prior approval of the Director General. 
( y ) The procedure for preparing the certificate of safety , the circumstances 

under which this has to be issued and the personnel required to 

sign it. 
( 4 ) Reference to aircraft in sub - rules ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) above shall be construed 
as including its engines , components , accessories , instruments, equipment, and 
apparatus and their installation , 

57 - B Maintenance standards and accessories .-- The Central Government may in 
respect of any aircraft or class of aircraft which is certified as airworthy under 
these rules and in respect of any technical accessories of equipment used in 
«connection with the operation of such aircraft, prescribe conditions for the 
technical operation , maintenance and use of such aircraft, accessories or equip 
ment. 

58. Modifications . - ( 1 ) If at any time the Director General considers that any 
modifications to an aircraft are necessary for safety , he may require those modi 
fications to be carried out as a condition of the certificate of airworthiness re 
maining in force . Such modifications may be notified in a general notice to air 
craft owners and Ground Engineers or in a special notice to the owner of a 
particular aircraft. 

( 2 ) The owner of an aircraft in respect of which a certificate of airworthiness 
is in force shall not without first obtaining the approval of the Director General 
carry out any modifications (including changes of equipment or its installations) 
which affect or are likely to affect the safety of the aircraft. 

( 3 ) Any such modifications shall be carried out by methods approved by the 
Director General and shall be inspected by the appropriate person , who shall 
certify the modification in the form and manner laid down in Section E of Sche 
dule III. 

59. Certificate of Safety . - ( 1 ) A public transport aircraft registered in India 
effecting public transport shall not fly or attempt to fly unless it has been ins 
-pected and found to have been maintained in accordance with approved main 
tenance schedules as prescribed in respect of that aircraft and a certificate ( in 
this rule referred to as certificate of safety ) has been issued and is in force 
under this rule , certifying that the aircraft is safe for flight. 

( 2 ) A certificate of safety shall be valid for twenty - four hours or for such 
periods as may be laid down in the maintenance manual for that aircraft pre 
pared by the owner and approved by the Director General. 

( 3 ) A certificate of safety shall be issued by the appropriate person licensed 
under rule 61 . 
(4 ) A certificate of safety shall cease to be in force: 

( a ) at the time when a new certificate of safety is required to be issued ; or 


1556 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART II 


(b ) If before the expiry of the certificate of safety the aircraft suffers any 

damage or reveals , any defect which would render the aircraft un 
safe for flight and which cannot in accordance with the ordinary 
aeronautical practice be remedied by the pilot or other member 

of the crew . 
(5 ) The certificate of safety required by sub - rule ( 1 ) shall be given in the 
form and manner specified in Section D of Schedulo III . 

60. Responsibility of the pllot in command of the aircraft. The pilot or com 
mander of cvery aircraft shall before commencing any flight satisfy himself that 
having regard to the performance of the aircraft , the extent to which it is loaded 
and the prevailing condition , a sufficient length of ground is available to effect a 
safe take - off and the line of flight in the take - off direction is not obstructed , and 
that the aircraft is safe for fight according to tho circumstances of the flight as 
laid down in sub paragraph ( 3 ) of paragraph 2 of Section D of Schedule III . 

SCHEDULE III 

( See Part VI) 
Detailed conditions applicable to the Issue, Validity and Renewal of Certificate 
of Airworthiness of aircraft and Maintenance Engineers Licences and the 
carriage of instruments, equipment and safety devices in aircraft. 

SECTION A 

CLASSIFICATION OF AIRCRAFT 
1. Every aircraft for which a certificate of airworthiness is granted shall be 
classified as belonging categories and one or more of the following to one or 
more of the following sub - divisions : 
( i) Normal Category : 

Sub - division ( a ) - - Public Transport for Passengers, 
Sub - division ( b ) - Public Transport for Mails . 
Sub - division ( c ) — Public Transport for Goods. 
Sub - division ( d ) - Private . 
Sub - division ( e ) - - Aerial work . 
Sub - Division ( h ) - Demonstrtion , 

Sub -division ( i) - Crew Familiarisation . 
(ii ) Semi- Acrobatic Category : 

Sub - division ( a ) to ( e ) , ( h ) and (i) as in the Normal Category . 
( iii) Acrobatic Category : 

Sub - division ( a ) to ( e ) , (h ) and ( i) as in the Normal Category . 
( iv ) Special Category : 

Sub - division ( f ) - Racing or Record . 
Sub - division ( g ) – Research & Experimental. 
Sub - division ( h ) Demonstration , 
Sub - division ( 1) — Crow Familiarisation . 


2 . Flying restrictions on categories : 
( 1 ) Normal Category : Operations are limited to normal flying manoeuvres . 

Acrobatic manocuvres are not permitted , 
( ii) Semi- Acrobatic Category : Operations are limited to normal flying 

manocuvres and certain acrobatic manocuvres as given in the 
certifcate of airworthiness of associated documents . Acrobatic 

manoeuyres not mentioned are not permitted . 
(iii ) Acrobatic Category : Normal flying and full acrobatic manoeuvres are 

permitted . Unorthodox acrobatic manoeuvres , such as bunts , etc ., 

are not permitted . 
( iv ) Special Category : Operations are limited to particular flights for 

particular purposes as detailed in the certificate of airworthiness or 
associated documents . 


3. Limitation on Sub - divisions: 
(i ) ( a ) Public Transport for Passengers , 

(b ) Public Transport for Mails . 
( c ) Public Transport for Goods. 


Sec . 5 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 1557 


These sub - divisions permit the aircraft to be used for the purpose of carrying 
passengers, mails or goods respectively for hire or reward , 
NOTE : — Aircraft used for flying instructions for which payment is made must 

hold a certificate of airworthiness in Sub - division ( a ) . 
( ii ) (d ) Private . 
Permits the aircraft to be used for any purpose other than those mentioned 
under other sub - divisions. 

( iii ) ( e ) Aerial Work . 
Permits the aircraft to be used for an industrial, commercial or any lucra 
tive purpose other than that for which the public transport sub - divisions men 
tioned in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) above are applicable . 

( iv ) ( 1 ) Racing or Record . 
Permits the aircraft to be used solely for sporting or technical purposes . 

(v ) ( 8 ) Research & Experimental. 
Permits the aircraft to be used for research or experimentation in Alights to 
the exclusion of any other use whatsoever , 

(vi) (h ) Demonstration , 
Permits the aircraft to be used for demonstration in flight during which non 
fare paying passengers may be carried unless such carriage is prohibited by 
the certificate of airworthiness or associated documents . 

( vii ) (i) Crew Familiarisation . 
Permits the aircraft to be used to familiarise the crew in operation of the 
aircraft, 

4 . ( a ) Thc categories and sub -divisions proposed for an aircraft ghould be 
stated on the form of application for the issue or renewal of a certificate of 
airworthiness. Where it is desired to have the aircraft classified in sub - divisions 
( e ) , ( f ) , ( g ) , ( h ) or ( i ) , the application should also indicate the particular 
purposes for which it is proposed to use the aircraft. 

(b ) An application for the re - classification of an aircraft should be made in 
writing and forwarded to the Director General. The aircraft may be re - classified 
if the aircraft conforms to the requirements applicable to the proposed re 
classification . 

SECTION B 
INSTRUMENTS , EQUIPMENT AND SAFETY DEVICES TO BE CARRIED IN AIRCRAFT 

1 . With reference to rule 53 , the additional instruments and equipment to be 
carried and maintained in a fit condition for immediate use in aircraft when 
flying or about to fly and the devices to be used and the precautionary measures 
to be taken thercin for the purpose of sccuring the safety of the aircraft are as 
specified in this Section . 

2 . The instruments and equipment specified in this Section shall be of types 
approved by the Director General and shall be installed or stowed in the air 
craft in a manner approved by the Director General for the purpose of securing 
their satisfactory functioning , except that the following may be of any type 
suitable for the purpose and may be installed or carried in any manner which 
will ensure that they can be used effectively as and when required : 

Maps and charts . 
Navigational instruments referred to in para 4 ( 2 ) ( g ) ( 14 ) . 
Clocks. 
Chart tables, 
First - aid kits . 
Sea anchors (Drogues ) . 
Torches , 
Mooring lights; Equipment for mooring or anchoring . 
Whistles . 
Sound gignals . 


1558THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[Part II 


3 . In the case of public transport aircraft carrying passengers , the First - Aid 
Kit shall contain equipment suitable for rendering first - aid in any accident that 
may occur and sufficient for the purpose having regard to the number of persons 
on board the aircraft and shall, in addition to a hand -book on First -Aid , include 
the following items: 
Materials : 
Bandages , antiseptic gauze, adhesive plaster , absorbent cotton , safety pins, 

splints. 
Instruments : 

Tourniquet and haemostatic bandages , scissors, forceps. 
Drugs : 

Water -miscibles antiseptic , analgesic, stimulant and remedy for burns. 
4 . The following instruments and equipment shall be carried by an aircraft 
in the circumstances detalled below ; 

( 1 ) In flying machines : 
( a ) For all flights : 
( i) The Instruments , equipment and devices required by the Director 

General for the issue of a Certificate of Airworthiness in respect of 

the particular flying machine ; 
( li) For flights which extend beyond a radius of 3 miles from the point of 

departure, equipment as required by the circumstances of the case 
for making the signals prescribed in these Rules, if no radio com 

munication apparatus is carried ; 
( iii) At least one portable Are - extinguisher in the pilot s compartment and 

one fire - extinguisher in each passenger compartment; 
( iv ) Safety belt or safety harness for every seat; except that for flights 

Involving acrobatic manoeuvres , safety harness must be provided for 

all seats ; 
( v ) Maps or charts to cover the whole route of the proposed flight; and 

any route to which a pilot of the flying machine may reasonably 

expect to be diyerted ; 
( b ) For flights, any part of which takes place between sun -set and sun - rise ; 

(1) Navigation lights ; 
( ii ) Landing lights consisting of two single - filament lamps or one dual 

Alament with separately energised filaments ; 
( ili ) Equipment for making visual signals specified in the Rules . 
( iv ) Adequate electrical illumination , supplied from the main source of 

supply in the flying machine, for the instruments and equipment 
the carriage of which is prescribed and the illumination of which is 

necessary to enable use to be made of them during flight; 
( v ) Turn & Slip Indicator or a Gyroscopic Bank and Pitch indicator ; 

( vi) Gyroscopic Direction Indicator . 
( c) Flying machines designed to manoeuvre on water : 
As necessary to comply with the Rules, the equipment for making sound 

signals and for displaying lights . 
( d ) For flights made under Instrument Flight Rules in Control Zones and 
Control Areas: 

(1) A Turn and Slip Indicator ; 
(li ) A Gyroscopic Bank and Pitch Indicator ; 
( iii ) A Gyroscopic Direction Indicator ; 
( iv ) Two sensitive altimeters adjustable for changes in barometric pressure, 

one of which may be the altimeter required to meet the require 

ments for the issue of a Certificate of Airworthiness ; 
( v ) Clocks with a sweep second -hand; 
( vi) Pilot head for the air speed indicator protected by electrical heating 

or otherwise against failure to operate in ice - forming conditions. 


Sec 8 ] 


I HE GAZE I TE OF INDIA JULY 20 , 1957 / AŞADHA 9 , 18791559 


( VII ) Means of indicating that the power supply to the gyroscopic instru 

ments is working satisfactorily . 
(viii ) Rate of climb and descent indicator 
( 1x ) Means of indicating the outside air temperature in flying machines 

whose all up weight exceeds 12 ,500 lbs 
( x ) In a flying machine of which the maximum total weight authorised 

exceeds 10 ,500 lbs , two air spced indicators 
( xi ) Approach chart for each aerodrome designated in the flight plan . 
( e ) For flights over water . 

Landplanes shall carry the equipment and notices as specified in sub - para 
graph ( 2 ) ( b ) ( 1 ) on routes on which the landplane may be over water 

1 At a distance from shore greater than 30 minutes at cruising speed for 
landplanes with a take -off weight such that in the event of any one engine 
becoming inoperative at any point along the route or planned diversion therefrom 
and with ; 

(1) the landplanes in the en -route configuration , and 
( 11) the engine ( s ) remaining operative, operating within maximum conti 

nuous power limitations, 
the flight can continue to a suitable aerodrome and a safe landing can be made 
at that aerodrome. 

2 . Beyond gliding distance from the shore except during take - off and initial 
climb and approach to land for all other landplanes 

NOTE - - Landplanes include amphibians operated as landplanes. 
( 2 ) In public transport flying machines 
(a ) For all flights . 
(1) Means of indicating to the passengers when their safety belts or 

safety harnesses should be fastened 
( 11 ) Means of indicating to the passengers the restrictions on smoking. 
( 111 ) Means of indicating to passengers the location and method of opening 

emergency exits . 
(iv ) Gyroscopic Turn and Slip Indicator or Gyroscopic Bank and Pitch 

Indicator . 
(v ) Gyroscopic Direction Indicator . 
(VI) Sensitive altimeter adjustable for changes in barometrio pressure , 

unless the altimeter required for the issue of a Certificate of Air 

worthiness meets this condition . 
( v11 ) A clock with a sweep second - hand . 
( vii) Such other instruments, equipment and supplies as the Director 

General may at his discretion require to be carried in the parti 

cular circumstances of the case . 
( b ) For flights by night or under Instrument Flight Rules by public trans 
port flying machines whose maximum total weight exceeds 2 ,500 lbs : 

(1 ) the equipment specified in 4 ( 1) ( d ) 
( c ) For all flights which involve manoeuvres on the water : 
( 1 ) Life jackets or equivalent individual floatation device for each person 

on board and stowed in a position easily accessible from his seat . 
NOTE . — A life belt is not considered an equivalent individual floatation 
device . 
( 11 ) Notices displayed in each passenger compartment giving the location 

of the life jackets and instructions to passengers how to use them 

in the event of their being required 
( 111) Additional floatation equipment equal to at least 1 /5th of the capa 

city of equipment required under ( b ) ( 1) above shall be stowed 

so as to be readily accessible from outside the flying machine, 
( iv ) Equipment for making pyro - technical distress signals from the surface 

of the water as specified in these Rules 


1560 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 


(PART II 


( v ) Sea anchor and equipment for mooring etc . appropriate to the maxi 

mum total weight authorised for the flying machine. 
NOTE . Each life jacket and individual floatation device when carried , shall 
be equipped with a means of electric illumination for the purpose of facilitating 
the location of persons. 

( d ) For flights over water in course of which the aeroplane may at any 
time be more than 90 minutes distance in still air from the nearest shore , i. e .. 
calculated at the most economical cruising speed of the aeroplane at sea level 
according to the best information available ; 
( i) Suitably equipped rafts of an approved type in sufficient numbers 

to accommodate all occupants on board , each raft shall carry the 

following equipment : 
( 1 ) Means of maintaining buoyancy ; 
( 2 ) A drogue to reduce drift ; 
( 3 ) Life lines and means of attaching one raft to another ; 
( 4 ) Paddles or other means of propulsion . 
( 5 ) A water - proof torch ; 
(6 ) Equipment to protect the occupants from the elements ; 
( 7 ) Pyrotechnical distress signal (marine type) ; 
(8 ) Means of making sea -water drinkable ; 
( 9 ) Sufficient food to sustain the occupants of raft for 24 hours ; 
( 10 ) First- Aid Kit 
Items ( 1 ) to (5 ) shall be of a type approved for operation in the type 

of raft in which these are installed . The remaining Items do not 

require approval. 
Routine maintenace inspection of rafts and their equipment shall 

be carried out to ensure that they are maintained in a serviceable : 

condition . 
( ii ) The method of stowage of rafts required by ( 1) above, and the 

method of launching shall be such as to ensure that the most 
expeditious and efficient use of them in the event of a forced 

landing of the aeroplane. 
( iii) For every four or proportion of four rafts a portable radio transmitter 

of approved type capable of being operated away from the 
aeroplane by unskilled personnel after the aeroplane has alighted 

on the water . 
( iv ) In the case of fight over water by flying machines other than 

aeroplanes , such items of equipment shall be carried as the 

Dircctor General may require. 
( e ) For Alights by night: 

(i) Cabin lights in all passenger compartments . 
( ii) Electrical torch for each crew member . 
( lii ) Spare electrical fuses for all circuits consisting of 25 per cent of 

each rating or three of each rating, whichever is greater. 
( f ) For flights in the course of which a height of 10 ,000 ft. or more above 
Bea - level is likely to be reached : 
1 . By a flying machine in which the atmospheric pressure in personnel 

compartments is less than 700 millibars ; 
( i ) a supply of oxygen together with suitable apparatus for the 

continuous use of the crew of the flying machine, and , if passengers 
are carried , of 30 per cent. of the passengers during any time exceed 
ing 20 minutes in which the flying machine flies at a height exceeding 

10 ,000 ft. but not exceeding 13,000 ft , above mean sea level. 
( ii) a supply of oxygen together with suitable apparatus for the use 

thereof by all the crew of the flying machinc, and , if passengers 
are carried , by all the passengers, during whole time in which the 
flying machine flies at a height excecding 13 , 000 ft , above mean 
sea level. 


SEC. 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 20 , 18791561 


( lil) before flying machine rcaches a height of 13, 000 ft . above mean 

sea level, the method of use of oxygen shall be demonstrated to 

every passenger . 
( iv ) as soon as the flying machine reaches a height of 13 , 000 ft. above 

mean sea level, every passenger shall be notified by suitable 

means that the use of oxygen is recommended , 
( v ) during the whole time in which flying machine is flying at a height 

exceeding 13 ,000 ft . above mean sea level, oxygen shall be used 

by cach member of the crew of the flying machine. 
2 . By a flying machine in which the atmospheric pressure is less than 

700 millibars, but which is provided with means of maintaining 
pressures greater than 700 millibars throughout the fight in the 
personnel compartment and in every compartment in which 
passengers are carried : 
a supply of oxygen sufficient, in the event of failure to maintain 

such pressure , for continuous use by all the crew of the flying 
machine during the whole time in which after such failure the flying 
machine flics at a height 10 , 000 ft. above mean sea level, together 
with suitable and sufficient apparatus for the use of oxygen by 

the crew of the flying machine . 
( g ) For flights on which a licensed Navigator is required , by Part V of 
these Rules , to be carried : 

( i) Chart table ; 
( ii) Adequate facilities for the taking of astronomical observations 

including observations for checking the magnetic compass ; 
(ul) Such navigational Instruments as are necessary for the particular 

flight, 
( h ) For flights when the weather reports available at the time of departure 
indicate the probability of cncountering conditions predisposing to ice formations 
( i) Means of preventing the formation of or means of removing the ice 

on such portions of the pilot s wind - screen as is necessary to provide 

adequate view ; 
( ii) Means of preventing the formation of or means of removing such 

ice on the wings , tail surface and control surfaces as would seriously 
altcr thc uero - dynamic characteristics of the aircraft or interfere 

with the proper functioning of its flying controls ; . 
( iii) Means of preventing the formation of or removing such ice on the 

propellers as would seriously alter the aero - dynamic characteristics 
and , in the case of variable pitch propellers, would interfere with 

its pitch changing machanism ; 
( iv ) Such safeguards whereby heating or otherwise as are necessary to 

ensure that all instruments and equipment required for use during 

flight will continue to function under icing conditions; 
( v ) Means of protecting any fixed aerial to ensure that ice accretion will 

not interfere with the electrical insulation . 
( vi) If a non - retractabic direction - finding loop is fitted , means of prevent 

ing ice accretion thereon . 
(i) For flights on which passengers are carried : 

Thę pilot - in -command of the flying machine or other member of the crew - 
to whom the responsibility has becn delegated by the operator of the flying 
machine shall: 

( 1) Before commencement of the flight take reasonable steps to ensure 

that all safety belts or safety harnesses have been correctly 
fastened and that the passengers have been made aware of their 

method of operation ; 
( ii) Before each landing of the flying machine take reasonable steps to 

ensure that all safety belts or safety harnesses have been correctly 

fastened ; 
(ii) When conditions of turbulent air prevail and if he considers such a 

direction necessary , take reasonable steps to ensure that all safety 

belts or safety harnesses have been correctly fastened ; 
(iv ) No smoking during landing and take -off s. 


1562 THE GAZETTE - OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29, 1879 


PART II 


NOTE . Such items as are already carried on board to meet the requirements 
of other conditions of flight may be accepted as satisfying the provision of this 
paragraph . 
( 3 ) In Gliders : 
( a ) For all flights : 
( I ) Normal category : 

( i) Safety belt or safety harness for each occupant, 
( ii) Air speed indicator ( except on low altitude training flights ) . 
( iii ) Altimeter . 
( II) Semi-acrobatic and acrobatic categories : 

( i) Safety harness for each occupant. 
( ii) Air speed indicator . 
( iii ) Altimeter. 

( iv ) Turn and Bank Indicator . 
( III) Any other instruments as may be prescribed by the Director General 

for certain conditions of flight. 
( b ) Flight by night: 

( I) Navigation lights . 
( II) Equipment for making visual signals, 
( III ) Adequate electrical illumination supplied from the main source of 

supply in the Glider for the instruments and cquipment ( including 
maps ) the carriage of which is prescribed and the illumination of 
which is necessary to enable use to be made of them during the 
flight. 


SECTION C 


WEIGHING OF AIRCRAFT 


1 . With reference to rule 54, the following provisions shall apply to every 
aircraft in respect of which a certificate of airworthiness issued or rendered valid 
is or has been in force . 

2 . Aircraft shall be weighed and the centre of gravity determined under 
arrangements to be made by the operator thereof at such times as the Director 
General may require and to the latter s satisfaction , 

3 . The aircraft shall carry , exhibited in a prominent position inside it, a 
weight schedule giving the following information : 

( a ) The nationality and registration marks of the aircraft. 
(b ) Centre of gravity position of empty aircraft. 
( c ) Weight empty , which shall include : - 
(i) weight of the liquid in the system if the aircraft is fitted with liquid 

cooled engines . 
(ii ) weight of all accessories, instruments , equipment and apparatus 

(including radio apparatus ) ; 
( iii) other parts which in the opinion of the Director General should be 

regarded as fixed and irremovable . 
( d ) A list of accessories , instruments , equipment and apparatus including 

radio apparatus and other parts which in the opinion of the 
Director General should be regarded as fixed and irremovable , which 

have been included in the empty weight of the aircraft. 
e ) A list of accessories, instruments, equipment and apparatus and other 

parts excluding radio apparatus and radio parts which in the opinion 
of the Director General should be regarded as removable together 

with the details of their respective weights . 
( 1 ) A list of radio apparatus and radio parts which in the opinion of the 

Director General should be regarded as removable together with 
details of their respective weights . 


SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 19, 18791563 


4 . Every such aircraft shall also bear clearly painted upon it in a prominent 
position : 
( i ) Its weight empty ( its weight as arrived at in the manner indicated 

in paragraph 3 ( C ) of this Section ) . 
( ii ) The maximum total weight authorised for the aircraft as shown for 

the time being in its certiflcate of airworthiness . 
5 . If any alteration affecting the weight of any such aircraft or its equipment, 
whether fixed or removable , has been made since it was last weighed , the weight. 
schedule which it carries in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Section shall 
be amended accordingly or replaced by a revised schedule. 

6 . Whenever the aircraft is weighed in accordance with paragraph 2 of this 
Section , the fixed accessories , instruments , equipment, apparatus and parts 
which it carries shall be checked against the weight schedule referred to in 
para 3 of this Section , 


SECTION D . 

CERTIFICATE OF SAFETY " 
1. With reference to rule 59 , the following provisions shall apply to the 
maintenance and inspection of an aircraft carried out in connection with the 
issue of a certificate of safety : 
( a ) Before the certificate of safety is issued , the operator of the aircraft 

shall produce such information as may be necessary to enable the 
aircraft maintenance engineers, who are to sign the certificate , to 
be satisfied that upto the date of issue of such certificate all main 
tenance and inspection required to be carried out in accordance with 
the approved maintenance schedules for the aircraft have been so 

carried out. 
( b ) The aircraft ( including its instruments and equipment but excluding 

its engines and engine installations and the instruments relating 
thereto ) shall, subject to the provisions of sub - para ( d ) of this 
para , be certified in the form and manner shown in para 2 below 
by an aircraft maintenance engineer licensed in Category A in 

respect of aircraft of the type in question . 
( c ) The engines and engine installation ( s ) and the prescribed instruments 

relating thereto shall, subject to the provisions of sub - para ( d ) of 
this para , bc certified in the form and manner shown in para 2 
below by an aircraft maintenance engineer Licensed in Category C 

in respect of engine ( s ) of the type ( s ) in question , 
( d ) The aircraft and the engines may be certified by the same aircraft 

maintenance engineer provided that he shall be licensed both in 
Categorics A and C in respect of aircraft and engines of the 

types in question 
Provided that the magnetic compasses may be adjusted and compensated by 
an aircraft maintenance engineer licensed in the category to cover adjustments 
and compensation of compass in aircraft or a pilot holding a B licence or a 
licensed flight navigator who shall certify to the effect on the daviation cards. 

2 . The certificate of safety issued in accordance with the provision of Rule 
60 shall be in the following form or in such other forms as may be approved as 
suitable for the purpose and shall be issued in duplicate : 


CERTIFICATE OF SAFETY * 
( 1) In the case of a Flying Machine: 

Flying Machine Type 

Nationality and Registration Marks 
I hereby certify that I am satisfied that the above aircraft ( including its 
prescribed instruments and equipment, but excluding its engines and engine 
installation and instruments relating thereto ) is safe in every way for flight, 
provided that the conditions of loading specified in the certificate of airworthiness 
are complied with and I hereby certify that all maintenance and inspection in 


1564THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART II 


19 


accordance with the approved maintenance schedules have been carried out 
and that adjustments and rectification found necessary have been made and 
inspected to my satisfaction . 

This certificate of safety is valid for 24 hours ore - aircraft flying hours / 
days as laid down in the maintenance manual approved by the Director General 
Total hours flown by aircraft at the time and date of certification . . . . . . . . 

( Signature ) 
Aircraft Maintenance Engincer ; Licence No. 
Time of Issue . . . . " 
Dated at 

this 

day of 
I hereby certify that I am satisfed that the engines and engine installations 
( including instruments relating thereto ) of the above aircraft are safe in cvery 
way for fight, and I hereby certify that all maintenance and inspection in 
accordance with the approved maintenance schedulcs have becn 
carried out and that adjustments and rectifications found necessary have been 
made and inspected to my satisfaction . 

This certificate of safety is valid for 24 hours or - - aircraft flying 
hours / days as laid down in the maintenance manual approved by the Director 
General, Total hours flown by aircraft at the time and date of certification , . . . . , 

( Signature ) 
Aircraft Maintenance Engineer : Licence No.- - 
"Time of Issue 
Dated at 

this - - day of 

- 19 
I hereby certify that I am satisfied that the radio equipment ( including com 
munication and navigational scts , and sets for instrument approach and landing , 
mountings , aerials , etc . ) fitted in the above aircraft is in proper working order , 
and I hereby certify that all maintenance and inspection in accordance with the 
approved maintenance schedules have been carried out and that adjustinents and 
rectifications found necessary have been made and inspected to my satisfaction , 
This certificate of safety is valid for 24 hours or 

aircraft flying 
hours / days as laid down in the maintenance manual approved by the Director 
General Total hours flown by aircraft at the time and date of certification 

(Signature ) 
Aircraft Maintenance Engineer : Licence No. 

or Flight Radio Officer s Licence No. . . . . . . . . . . or DGCA 

Special Authority Reference No.. . . . . . . . . . . . 
Time of Issue 
Dated at - - this Larm day of 

19 : 
( 2 ) In the case of a Glider ; 
Glider Type 

Nationality and Registration Marks 

I hereby certify that I am satisfied that the above aircraft ( including its 
prescribed instruments and equipment and also its towing gear ) is safe in every 
way for fight, provided that the conditions of loading specified in the certificate 
of airworthiness are complied with and I hereby certify that all maintenance 
and inspection in accordance with the approved maintenance schedules have been 
carried out and that adjustments and rectification found necessary have been 
made and inspected to my satisfaction . 
This certificate of safety is valid for 24 hours . 

( Signature ) 
Aircraft Maintenance Engineer : Licence No. 
Time of Issue 
Dated at 

this day of 

19 
* NOTE . - 1. The certificate does not include the radio apparatus but includes 
the attachment of the radio apparatus to the aircraft structure and the condition 
of the earth system of the aircraft including bonding and screening to ensure 
fuppression of high frequency electrical interference . 

2 . The certificate also includes instruments and equipment required by the 
pilot or the person in command for any particular condition of flight, 

( 3 ) Pilot s Inspection : 

The Inspection of aircraft required by rule 60 shall be such as to satisfy 
the pilot in command of the aircraft on the points enumerated hereunder : 
( a ) the aircraft is equipped with the prescribed instruments and equip 

ment, including radio apparatus required for the particular condi 

tions of the flight, 
( b ) the provisions as may be necessary in the circumstances of the 

proposed fight have been made for any prescribed devices to be 
used and for any prescribed precautions to be taken in the aircraft 
for the purpose of promoting safety thereto , 


Sec . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 1565 


- 


( c ) the controls of the aircraft are working freely in the correct sense , and 

the engines , where applicable, are giving their correct performance , 
( d ) the load carried by the aircraft is of such weight, and so distributed 

and secure that it may safely be carried on the proposed flight. 
( e ) the view of the pilot is not interfered with by any obstruction not 

forming part of the structure of the aircraft and is not obscured by 
any reason of discolouration of damage to , or deposit on any of the 

windows, wind -screens or side - screens of the aircraft, 
( 1) in the case of flying machine sufficient fuel and oil are carried on 

board for the purpose of the proposed flight, including a safe 

margin for contingencies, 
( g ) in the case of every aircraft which is required by rule 15 to be 

certified as airworthy , the aircraft , engines , instruments and equip 
ment and radio apparatus, where applicable, have been certified by 
persons holding appropriate licences , as fit in every way for the 

proposed flight in accordance with rule 60 , 
( h ) in the case of a flying machine or a glider, the wings and control 

surfaces are free from icc and hoar - frost. 
4 . Load Sheet : 

( 1 ) A load sheet shall be prepared in respect of every flight or sector of 
flight to be made by a public transport Aying machine except the public trans 
port flying machine of which the maximum total weight authorised does not 
exceed 2 ,500 lbs : 

Provided that the said requirements shall not apply in respect of a flight made 
hy a public transport flying machine: 

( 1) solely for the purpose of training or personnel; or 
( ii ) as a local pleasure flight of short duration commencing from and 

finishing at one and the same aerodrome with no intermediate 

landing 
( 2 ) (1) Every load sheet required in accordance with the provisions of sub 
paragraph ( 1 ) above, shall contain : - 

( ) particulars of the nationality and registration marks of the flying 

machine; 
( b ) sufficient data to enable the particular flight to be readily identified ; 
( c ) particulars of the several weights ( i.e. weight empty , removable 

equipment, fuel, oil, passengers , goods , etc .) from which the total 

wcight of the flying machine as loaded has been computed ; 
ra ) a certificate by the pilot in charge that the conditions of clause ( d ) 

of para 3 have been complied with or a certificate by a person 
approved by the Director General superintending the loading of the 
flying machine that the load has been weighed and distributed for the 
purpose of satisfying the pilot in charge that the conditions set out 

in clause ( d ) of paragraph 3 have been complied with , 
Tl ) Except as provided in sub - paragraph ( fi ) of this paragraph , the weight 
of the crew and passengers of a flying machine entered in the load sheet shall 
he computed from the actual weight of each person as ascertained by individual 
"weighings. 

rid ) In the case of a flying machine with a seating capacity of 12 persons 
or more the person superintending the loading of the flying machine may, if so 
instructed by the person in command of the flying machine, compute the weight 
at the crew and passengers to be entered in the load sheet in accordance with the 
following table of average weights instead of from the actual weight of each 
Derson as ascertained by individual weighings : 


Ibs; 


For adult males, including crew : 

160 
For adult females , incuding crew : 

125 
For children of either sex between 2years and 12 years of age : 

70 
For infants under 2 years of age : 
The pilot in command of a flying machine shall, however , have regard to any 
tindue preponderance among the persons to be carried of persons appearing to 
be above the average weights as set out in the preceding table and shall, if he 


17 


1566THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[PART II 


considers it necessary , require the actual weights of such persons to be ascertain 
ed by individual welghings. 

If the average weights of persons are entered in a load sheet the load sheet 
shall be endorsed to show that the said method of computation has been used . 

5 . Disposal of Certificates. Of the copies of certificates of safety referred to 
In this Section , one copy shall be retained by the owner or operator of the 
aircraft and one copy shall be carried in the journey log boog until replaced 
by a further certificate issued under this Section . One copy of the load sheet 
shall be kept by the owner or the operator of the aircraft and one copy shall be 
carried in the aircraft. 

Certificates and load sheets shall be kept for six months from the date of 
their completion . 


SECTION E 


INSPECTION OF AIRCRAFT DURING CONSTRUCTION , OVERHAUL , REPAIR , 

MODIFICATION , ETC . 


1 . For the purpose of this section reference to an aircraft, except where the 
contrary intention appears, shall be construed as including its engines, compo . 
nents , accessories , instruments , equipments , and apparatus and their installations. 

Reference to the overhaul, repair , replacement or modification of an aircraft 
include reference to overhaul, repair , replacement of parts or modification of 
its engines, components , accessories , instruments , equipment, or apparatus, or 
the installation thereto , and in the case of modifications include reference to 
changes in the type of engines , components , accessories, instrument, equipment, 
or apparatus from those previously installed . 

2 . Conditions of inspection . When any aircraft that is required by these 
Rules to be certified as airworthy, or in respect of which an application for a 
certificate of airworthiness has been made is constructed , overhauled , repaired 
or modified or when any part thereof is replaced the aircraft shall not fly unless 
the following conditions have been complied with : 
( 1 ) The work shall be carried out in all essential respects in accordance with 

the approved type design including such modifications as have been 
approved for embodiment therein or, alternatively , shall be carried 
out in accordance with a repair scheme approved by the Director 

General. 
( ii ) All materials used shall be approved for the type design , or as other 

wise approved , 
( iii) Thc work shall be inspected , to the extent necessary in the circums 

tances of the case , in accordance with the requirements of the 

Director General. 
( iv ) A certificate in the form sct out in para 5 of this Section shall be 

given provided that, in the case of repairs, where it is not reasonably 
practicable to comply with the above requirements , a temporary 
repair of the part or parts affected may be made for the sole purpose 
of enabling the aircraft with bonafide crew and equipment and spares 
only to proceed directly to the nearest place at which a repair 
complying with the above requirements can be carried out, and , if 
the person - in - command of the aircraft is satisfied that, having regard 
to all the circumstances of the case such repair is adequate for the 
purpose , the aircraft may then proceed to fly , to such place without 
having such temporary repairs certifed in accordance with the 

foregoing requirements . 
3 . Inspection Requirements : - The following conditions shall be complied with 
in the inspection of aircraft during construction , overhaul, repair , modification 
or replacement, namely 
( i) All materials used in the construction of the aircraft shall be in 

accordance with the approved specification for the first aircraft 
constructed of that particular type, and such material shall be 
adequately identified as being of the approved specification or shall 
be approved to comply with such specification by suitable exami 
nation , sampling and testing at the cost of the constructor to the 
satisfaction of Director General, 


Sec . 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ ASADHA : 9, 1879 1567 


( ii ) Every part must be approved by the constructor s inspecting staff by 

suitable process of testing and inspection to conform strictly to the 
approved type design . The constructor s inspecting staff shall 
stamp, or otherwise provide mcans for the identification of, all parts 
approved by them for incorporation in the aircraft in such a way 
that the person so approving euch such part can subsequently be 

identified . 
( iii ) Only parts which have been approved in accordance with clauso ( ii ) 

may be issued to the workshops for assembly into the aircraft. 
( iv ) The constructor shall maintain an efficient process inspection during 

the work of assembly and record the progress of such inspection for 
each component. Every component shall be finally inspected and 
certified by an approved member of his inspection staff, who shall 
mark the component in such a way that may afterwards be indenti 
fied as the person having so certified it and shall also sign the 

inspection record . 
( v ) Operations, such as heat treatment of steels and non - ferrous metals , 

seasoning and conversion of timber , glueing of important parts , 
doping, welding, white metalling , brazing, soldering and other work 
shop processes shall be carried out by methods approved by the 
Director General. The constructor shall in addition ensure by 
adequate sampling and checks at his own cost the maintenance of 

the approved standards of workshop processes . 
(vi) The constructor shall ensure that all components and parts obtained 

from sub - contractors have been inspected and approved in accord 

ance with these conditions. 
( vii) The constructor shall ensure that all engines Atted in the aircraft 

have been inspected and approved in accordance with these condi 
tions and have passed satisfactory tests . The constructor shall 

provide adequate facilities for these tests . 
( viii) The constructor shall ensure that the instruments and equipment 

Atted in accordance with Section B of this Schedule have been 
manufactured and any repairs thereto executed in accordance with 

approved specifications. 
( ix ) The constructor shall ensure by suitable inspection that all engines, 

instruments and parts ( including wiring for electrical equipment and 
radio - telegraph apparatus ) which are Atted into the aircraft are 80 
installed as to function correctly . The persons responsible for such 
inspection shall be indicated by signatures on the inspection record 

referred to in clause ( iv ) . 
( 1 ) The inspection record referred to in clause ( iv ) of this paragraph 

shall be retained by the constructor. 
( xi ) For the purpose of this paragraph , the " constructor" is the person or 

the firm which carries out any construction , overhaul, repair , modi 

fication or replacement. 
4 . The following conditions shall be complied with in connection with the 
construction , modification and overhaul of an aircraft : 

(1) For Type aircraft : 
( ) On completion of the construction of an aircraft, flying trials shall be 

carried out by the applicant s or constructor s pilot under arrange 
ments approved by the Director General. 
On completion of the flying trials referred to in clause ( a ) of this 
paragraph , a final inspection of the aircraft as regards its fitness for 
flight shall be made by a representative or representatives of the 
constructor holding aircraft maintenance engineer s licence in 
categories A & Q for the type of aircraft concerned , and if the result 
of this inspection warrants it, a certificate of fitness for fight in the 
form spccificd in paragraph 2 of Section D of this Schedule shall be 

furnished . 
( 11 ) For subsequent aircraft: 

The aircraft shall be fight- tested in accordance with the approved schedules 
by a pilot approved for the purpose . 

( iii ) On completion of the whole of the inspection , operations specified above , 
the constructor shall forward to the Director General a summary of the inspec 
tion record of the aircraft referred to in clause ( iv ) of paragraph 3 . 


(b ) 


1568 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29, 1879 


( PART II 


5 . Form for Certificate : - The certificate referred to in clause (lv ) of para 
graph 2 shall be appended to the written particulars of the construction , 
overhaul, repair , modification or replacement to which it relates and shall be 
in the following form : 

" I hereby certify that, in carrying out the construction , overhaul, repair , 
replacement, modification specified above, all the conditions and requirements of 
ine Indian Aircraft Rules for the time being in force which are applicable thereto 
nave been complied with " . 


Signature . . . 


Aircraft Maintenance Enginecr ; Licence No. 

Category . . .. .. . 

Date . . . . . . . . . . . . 
6 . Persons authorised to give certificates . The certificate referred to in clause 
( iv ) paragraph 2 shall be signed by an aircraft maintenance engineer qualified 
under the terms and conditions of his licence to certify the construction , overhaul, 
repair , modification or replacement to which the certificate relates, or by the 
Authorised representative of a firm or company approved by the Director General 
for the purpose of giving such certificate or where the construction , overhaul 
repair or replacement has been carried out at an Indian Air Force workshop 
by Indian Air Force personnel, by the officer in charge of that workshop, 


7. Approval of firms. _ ( a ) Firms requiring authority for the purpose of 
Issuing certificate referred to in paragraph 6 of this Section , and firms engaged 
in the sale of aircraft and aero - engine parts and components , instruments and 
materials used in aircraft, shall be approved by the Director General and in the 
manner as the Director General may direct. 


( b ) The approval granted under the above clause shall remain valid , unlesy 
cancelled or suspended , for the period specified thercin , subject to a maximum 
period of twelve months in each case , and may, thereafter , be renewed by the 
Director General. 


( c ) The Director General may withhold the grant of renewal of approval it 
for any reason he considers it desirable to do so . 


( d ) The following tecs shall be payable in respect of the grant, extension or 
renewal of certificates of approval : 


Category of 
approval 


Scope of approval 


Inſtia Issue 


Fees for 
Runewal 


ATEL 


- 


Rs. 


Rs. 


200 / 


IX 


For construction of " Type and 

“ Subsequent" aircraft for which 
& certificate of airworthinese 1: 

required 
For construction of component 

part of an aircraft or acro 
engine, equipment or instru 
ment, the Inspection of which 
has been carried out by the 

firm , 
For manufacture of materials 

to be used in the construction 
of aircraft , aero engine, equip 
ment of instrument, the 
manufacture and inspection of 
which material has been 
carried out by the firm , 


200 ) 


1001 


2001 


100 , 


Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 18791569 


Category of 
approval 


Scope of approval 


Initial Issue 


Reacwal 


DI 


Rs. 


Rs. 


For carrying out repair, over 

haul, modification or replace 
ment of an aircraft part, acro 
enginc , cquipment or instrument 
or any part thercof, for which 
a certificate of airworthiness has 
been issued when such have been 
carried out in accordance with the 
regulations in force . 


2001 


100 / 


D 


2 


Tor carrying out maintenance of 

alcraft , engines and accessorico . 


200 / 


JOO / 


For testing and issue of a cer 

tificate in respect of the physical 
or chemical properties or analysis 
of matcrials , radiological tests , ctc . 
of parts to be used in aircraft 
construction , 


2001 


100 / 


For stocking and distributing aircraft 

and aircraft parts or materials. 


100 / 


50 / 


8 . Disposition of certificates. The certificates shall , when relating to aircraft 
exclusive of the engines , be written in the aircraft log book ; when relating to 
the engines , be written in the appropriate engine log book ; and when relating 
to a variable pitch propeller , be written in the appropriate propeller log book ; 
provided that: 


( i) if the details of any overhaul, repair , replacement or modification are 

so voluminous as to render it inconvenient to enter them in the space 
provided in the log book , such details shall be entered in a scparate 
record which shalſ be numbered for identification purposes certified 
in a like manner to that required for the relcyant entry in the log 
book and retaincd in safe custody in order that it may be produced 
on such occasions as it may be required for inspection . The 
number of such record and particulars of the place where it may 
be inspected shall be inserted in the log book together with a brief 
description of the overhaul, repair , replacement or modification to 
which the record rclates . 


( ii ) if the appropriate log book is not at the place where the overhaul, 

repair , modification or replacement is carried out , the certificate may 
be given separately but shall be posted in the log book as soon as 
rcasonably practicable . 


9 . Inspection after damage . When structural damage which materially 
Impairs its safety occurs to an aircraft in respect of which a certificate of 
airworthiness is required by these rules the aircraft shall not again fly until the 
damage has been repaired and a certificate has been obtained in accordance with 
this Section 

10 . Defective Parts , - - When any part of an aircraft, an engine or an instru 
ment or equipment of any aircraft is revealed by inspection to be defective, the 
Director General may require it to be delivered to a person authorised by him 
on his behalt for examination and on a request being made by the owner such 
parts shall be returned to him after examination . 


[No. 10 - A /58 - 58.) 
M . DAYAL, Dy . Secy . 


1570 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 . 1879 


[PART II 


( Department of Transport) 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 12th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2338. - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 5 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping ( Scamen s Employment Office, Calcutta ) Rules, 1954 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . E . P . Broughton as a member 
( representing the shipowners ) on the Seamen s Employment Board , Calcutta , 
vice Shri L W . Balcombe who has proveered on leave out of India and makes 
the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India , Ministry 
of Transport No. 15 -MS ( 1 ) /57, dated the 11th March 1957 , namely : 
In the said notification , for the entry " 8 . Shri L . W . Balçombe" , the entry 
" 8 . Shri B . E . P . Broughton " shall be substituted . 

[ No. 15 -MT(5) /57.] 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Transport) 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 12th July 1957 
S . R . O , 2339 . - In pursuance of the provisions of Clause ( 3 ) of section 3 of 
the Indian Ports Act 1908 ( 15 of 1908 ) the Central Government hercby authorises 
Shri Ismail Hussain Khot, Chief Omcer of the Merchant Steam Navigation Com 
pany s coasting steamers , as a licenced officer to pilot vessels in the Port of 
Bombay , subject to the restrictions laid down in Part XII of the Bombay Port 
Trust Pliotage By -laws. 

[No. 8 - C - PG (60 ) / 57. ] 
D . A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


( Department of Transport ) 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 19th July , 1957 
S . R . O . 2340. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11, 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal ) Rules , 1957, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to 
the notification of the Government of India in the ( late ) Ministry of Transport 
No, S . R . O . 610 , dated the 28th February , 1957 namely : - - 

In the said Schedule 

( 1 ) in Part I, after the existing cntries , the following entries shall be inserted , 
namely : 


Part 1 — Genctal Central Scrvices, Class II 


Department of Lighthouses & Lightships, 


All Class II posts . . 


. 


. 


All 


Secretary , De- Secretary , De 
partment of partment of 
Transport , Mi- Transport, Mi 
nistry of Trans- niştry of trans 
port & Communi- port & Com 
cations . 

munications. 


Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ ASADHA 29, 1870 1571 


(2) in Part II, after theexisting cntries, the following entries shall be inserted namely :--- 

Part II --General Central Service, Class III 


3 


4 


5 


All Director General 

of Lighthouses & 
Lightships. 


Department of Lighthouses and Lightships, 
(1 ) Personnel employed at Light- Director of Director of 

houses , Lighthips and the mo- | Lighthouses and Lighthouses & 
tor boats in the Madras, Bom - | Lightships of the Lightships of the 
bey , Calcutta and Saurashtra - | District con - District concer 
Kutch Lighthouse Districts, cerned . 

Incd or Deputy Di 
rector of Light 
houses and Light 
ships where there 
is no Director . 


( ii) Posts in the offices of the Dir 

dctor of Lighthouscs, Bombay 
Calcutta , Madras and Deputy 
Director of Lighthouses , Sau 

rashtra -Kutch District. 
2 . Posts on the Lighthousç Tender Director of Director of 
M . S . Pradecp , 

Lighthouses & Lighthouses & 
Lightships , Bom - Lightships , Bom 
bay. 

bay . 
3. All Other Class III posts. Director general Director General 

of Lighthouses of Lighthouses 
& Lightships. & Lightships, 


All Director General 

of Lighthouses & 
Lightships. 


All Secretary , De 
partment of Trans 
port , Ministry of 
Transport and 
Communications . 


(3 ) in Part III, after the existing entries , the following entries shall be inserted , namely : 

Part III- Gencral Central Servicc , Class IV 


Department of Lighthouses and Lightships 
I . Class IV staff employed at Light- Director of Light Dircctor of Light- All Director General 
houses & Lightships and thc houses & Light- houses & Light 

of Lighthouses 
mctor boats in the Medras, ships of the Dis - ships of the Dis 

and Lightships, 
Bombay , Calcutra and Saurash - trict concerncd , trict concerned 
tra - Kurch Lighthouse Districts . 

or Deputy Direc 
tor of Lighthouses 
& Lightships 
where there is no 
Director. 


7 / Class IV posts on the Light- Director of Light- Director of Light- All Director General 
house Tender M . S . Pradeep . houses Light- house88 Light 

of Lighthouses & 
ships Bombay . ships Bombay . 

Lightships. 
3 . All other Class IV posts , Administrative Administrative All Director General 

Officer , Depart - Officer , Depart Light ships, 
ment of Light- ment of Light- All Director General 
houses & Light- houses & Light of Lighthouses . 
ships , ships . 

and Lightships. 


[No. 20-MT( 10 ) 753- Vig .] : 
T , S. PARASURAMAN , Dy . Secy . 


1572 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 


[ Part II 


(Department of Communications ) 

( Posts and Telegraphs ) 
New Delhi, the 15th July , 1957 . 


S . R . O . 2341. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
16 of the Indian Post Office Act , 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment to the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 , 
namely : 

In Item (b ) of rule 183 of the said Rules , for the words " and Bihar Univer 
sity " , the following words shall be substituted, namely : 
" , Bihar University and Kuruksetra University ": 

[No. 24 / 7 / 57 / CI.] 
S . R . O . 2342. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898 (6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely : 
" In Rule 44 of the said rules, sub -rule (5 ) shall be omitted .” 

[No. C . 70 - 10 / 55.] 
S . R . O . 2343. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 
16 of the Indian Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government here 
by makes the following further amendment to the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933, 
namely : 

In rule 183 of the said Rules , the following shall be inserted as item ( vv ) , 
namely : 
" ( vv ) The Chairman and Secretary of the Central Silk Board , provided 

that the articles posted by them relates solely to the business of the 
said Board " 

[ No, 2475 /57 / CI.) 
K , K . SARAN , Dy. Secy . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi-2 , the 11th July , 1957 
S .R . O . 2844. — It is hereby notified for general information that the disquali 
fication under clause ( c ) of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 (XLIII of 1951) , incurred by the persons whose names and addresses are 
given below , as notified under notification No. BY - P / 115 / 57 ( 13 ) , dated the 6th 
June, 1957, has been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clausę. 
Shri Parulekar Shamrao Vishnu , c / o G . K . Shaligram , Pleader , Station 

Road , Thana . 
Shri Matera Laxman Mahadya , Village Kurze -Manpada , Tal. Dahanu , 
District Thana . 

[No . BY- P / 115 / 57 ( 13R ) / 5304. I 
New Delhi- 2 , the 13th July , 1957 
S . R . O . 2945 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 134 of the Representation 
of the People ( Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1956 , the 
Election Commission hereby notifies the names of the persons shown in column 1 
of the Schedule below who having been contesting candidates for election to 
the House of the People from the constituency specified in the corresponding 
entries in column 2 thereof, at the general elections held in 1957, have in accord 
ance with the decision given by the Election Commission under sub - rule ( 3 ) 
of the said rule, failed to lodge their accounts of election expenses in the manner 
required by law and have thereby incurred the disqualification under clause ( c ) 
of section 7 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, Act 43 of 1951. 


Sec . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29, . 


1573 


SCHEDULE 


Names of contesting candidates 


Name of Constituency 


Shri Baburao Patel, c /o Capt. G . P . Kitchlu , Gwalior. 

Laxmi Niwas, The Mail, Morar . 
Shri Radhacharan , Ambah , District Morena . Gwalior . 
Shri Sooraj Prasad alias Surya Prasad , Gwalior . 
Madhavganj, Jatavpura , Lashkar. 

[ No. MP - P / 165 /57( 53 ) / 5220 . ] 

By Order , 
A . KRISHNASWAMY AIYANGAR , Sccy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2 , the 11th July , 1957 
S .R .O . 2346 . - The following Order made by the President is published for 
general information . 

ORDER 


In pursuance of Clause ( 3 ) of article 77 of the Constitution of India , the Presi 
dent is plcased to make the following Order - with effect from the 3rd Asadha 
1879 Saka ( June 24th , 1957 ) , namely : 

Work relating to the administration of the Muslim Wakfs Act, 1954, and the 
Delli Muslim Wakfs Act, 1943 , at present transacted in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs shall be transferred to the Ministry of Education and Scientific Research 
(Department of Education ) , 
The 24th June 1957 

RAJENDRA PRASAD , President. 
[No. 3 / 12 /57 -Public ( I ). ] 

A . V . PAI, Secy . 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi-2 , the 10th July , 1957 
S . R . O . 2347. — Raja Narayan Prasad Dev , Ruler of Baudh (Orissa ), died on 
the 30th August , 1956 without leaving any direct male heir of his body . The 
Government of India have received representations from several persons claiming 
recognition as Ruler of Baudh in succession to late Raja . In the absence 
of any persons in the direct line of succession , the Government of India have 
decided to appoint Shri B . C . Das , District Judge , Ganjam -Nayagarh , to examine 
the contentions of the rival claimants and report to the Government of India 
the name of the person who, in his judgment, is best entitled to recognition by 
the President as the Ruler of Baudh under article 366 ( 22 ) of the Constitution . 

2 . Shri Das will have full power to arrange the procedure and settle the 
course of the inquiry. The inquiry shall, however , be open and the rival 
claimants shall be heard . 


3 . Shri Das will submit his report to the Government of India through the 
Government of Orissa by the 30th of September, 1957. 


ORDER 
Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be published in the Gazette of India . 

[No. F . 20 / 14 / 56 - Poll. III . ] 
V . VISWANATHAN , Joint Secy . 


1574 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA 29, 1879 


[Part 11 


New Delhi- 2 , the 11th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2348 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution and after consultation with the 
Comptroller and Auditor -General in relation to persons serving in the Indian 
Audit and Accounts Department, the President hereby makes the following amend 
ment in the Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 
1957, namely : 
In the said rules 

in sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 , for the words 
" by a general or special order ” the words 
" by a general or special order of the President" shall be substituted . 

[ No . 7 / 21 / 57- Ests ( A ) . ] 
P . SITARAMAN , Dy. Socy . 


New Delhi-2, the 15th July 1967 
S . R . O . 2349. - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 10 of the All India Services 
(Leave ) Rules, 1955 , the Central Government after consultation with the State 
Governments concerned hereby makes the following regulations namely : 
THE ALL INDIA SERVICES (SPECIAL DISABILITY LEAVE ) REGULATIONS, 

1957. 
1. Short title . — These regulations may be called the All India Services (Special 
Disability Leave ) Regulations, 1967. 
2 . Definitions. In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires 
( 1 ) ( a ) " disability " means any injury , illness, infirmity , or disease and 

( b ) “ Medical Board" means a medical board set up by the Government. 
( 2 ) All other words and expressions used in these regulations but not 

defined shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the 

All India Services ( Leave) Rules, 1955. 
3 . Conditions for the grant of Special Disability Leave and the amount of such 
leave.- ( 1 ) ( i) Special disability leave may be granted to a member of the Services 
who suffers an injury as a result of risk of office or special risk of office . 

( ii) Such leave shall not be granted unless the disability manifested itselt 
within three months of the occurrence to which it is attributed and the member 
of the Service disabled acted with due promptitude in bringing it to the notice of 
the Government. The Government may, however , if satisfied as to the cause of 
disability permit such leave being granted in cases where the disability manifested 
itself more than three months after the occurrence of its cause. 


Explanation . - - ( 1 ) Risk of office means any risk , not being special risk , of 
accident or disease to which a member of the Service is exposed in the course of 
and as a consequent of his duties , but nothing shall be deemed to be a risk of 
office which is a risk common to human existence in modern conditions in India , 
unless such risk is definitely enhanced in kind or degree by the nature, conditions, 
obligations or incidents of Government service and includes any risk of injury , 
illness , disease or accident (whether caused or occasioned by roits , civil disorders 
or commotions and other extra - ordinary circumstances ) arising out of and in the 
course of discharge of his duties by a member of the Service on a working day 
or holiday . A member of the Service who is proceeding to or returning from any 
place to which he has to go in the course of his duties or in order to discharge his 
duties shall be deemed to be acting in the discharge of his duties. 
( ii) Special risk of Once means 
( a ) a risk of suffering injury by the act of a person who inflicts an injury 

on a member of the Service , 
( 1) by assaulting or resisting him in the discharge of his duties , or in 

order to detor or prevent him from performing his duties, or 
( 1 ) because of anything done or attempted to be done by such member 

of the Service in the lawful discharge of his duty as such , or 


SEC. 5] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 1575 


( ii ) because of his official position ; 
( b ) a risk of injury by accident to which a member of the Service is expos 

ed in the course of , or as a consequence of, the performance of any 
particular duty which has the cffect of materially increasing his liabi 

lity to such injury beyond the normal risk of his office ; and 
( c ) a risk of contracting disease in the performance of any particular duty 

which has the effect of increasing his liability to illness beyond the 

ordinary risk attaching to the civil post which he holds. 
( 2 ) The period of leave granted shall be such as may be certified by a medical 
board to be necessary and shall not be extended except on a certificate from a 
medical board . 

( 3 ) Where a member of the Service is disabled by an injury accidentally 
incurred in or in consequence of his official position or by illness incurred in the 
performance of any particular duty which has the effect of increasing his liabili 
ty to illness or injury beyond the ordinary risk attaching to the post which he 
holds , the grant of special disability leave is subject to the further conditions 
that 
( 1 ) the disability it due to a disease must be certified by a medical board 

to be directly due to the performance of the particular duty ; and 
( ii ) the disability contracted during service otherwise than with the Armed 

Forces must, in the opinion of Government, be so exceptional in 
character or in the circumstances of its occurrence as to justify such 

unusual treatment as the grant of this form of leave. 
( iii ) a period of absence recommended by a medical board may be covered 

in part by special disability leave and in part by other leave and that 
a period of special disability leave granted on full pay may be less 
than 120 days. 

[No. 6 / 1 / 55 - AIS ( III) ) . ] 

R . C . DUTT, Joint Secy. 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2350. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of Section 72 of the States Reorganisation Act , 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ) , the President 
hereby declares. 
( a ) that from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Delhi, the 

gum of twenty thousand , five hundred and eighty four rupees, 
gpecified in column 4 of the Schedule annexed to this notification 
shall be decmed to have been duly authorised to be paid and applied 
to meet the amount spent for defraying the charges in respect of 
the service specified in column 2 of the Schedule during the finan 
cial ycar , ended on the 31st day of March , 1954 , in excess of the 

amounts granted for that service and for that year ; and 
(b ) that the sum deemed to have been authorised to be paid and applied 

from and out of the Consolidated Yund of the State of Delhi under 
this notification shall be deemed to have been appropriated for the 
service and purpose expressed in the Schedule in relation to the 
financial year ended on the 31st day of March , 1954 , 

THE SCHEDULE 


5. 
No. 


Service and purposes 


Head of Account 


Excess 


Voted 
Portion 


Charged 
Portion 


Total 


I 


Re. 


I Charges on account of 

Motor Vehicles Act . 


Rs. 
20 , 584 


6 . Charges on account of 
Motor Vehicles Act , 


RS 
20 ,584 


20, 584 


20,584 


[ No. F . 21( 8 ) - B / 57. ] 


1576 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART II 


S . R . O . 2351. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of Section 72 of the Stateş Reorganisation Act, 1956 ( 37 of 1956 ) , the President 
hereby declares . 
( a ) that from and out of the Consolidated Fund of the State of Delhi, the 

sums specified in column 4 of the Schedule annexed to this notifica 
tion amounting in the aggregate to the sum of twenty - six thousand , 
nine hundred and sixty - two rupees shall be deemed to have been 
duly authorised to be paid and applied to meet the amount spent 
for defraying the charges in respect of the services specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule during the financial year ended on the 
31st day of March , 1953, in excess of the amounts granted for those 

services and for that year ! and 
( b ) that the sums deemed to have been authorised to be paid and applied 

from and out of tho Consolidated Fund of the State of Delhi under 
this notification shall be deemed to have been appropriated for the 
services and purposes expressed in the Schedule in relation to the 
financial year ended on the 31st day of March , 1953 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Services and purposes 


Heads of Accounts 


Exce98 


No. 


Voted 
Portion 


Charged 
Portion 


Total 


I . Stamps 
2 . Miscellancous 


3 . Stamps 
22. Miscellaneous 


Rs. 
15 , 199 
11, 763 


Rs. 
I5 , 199 
11 ,763 


26, 962 

26 , 962 
(No. F .21 (8 ) B / 57 ] 

H . S NEGI, Jt . Sccy. 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2352 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declares that the provisions of clause 
( i) of sub -section ( 1 ) of section 12 of the said Act shall not apply , until the 
14th August 1960 , to the Oriental Bank of Commerce Ltd ., Delhi. 

[No. 4 (121) - F . I/ 57 .] 

B . SHUKLA , Dy. Secy . 
(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

New Delhi, the 10th July , 1957 
S . R . O . 2383. — In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the 
First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (5 of 1908 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the officers specified in column 1 of the table 
below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the salaries and allowances 
of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said 
table shall be sent: 

TABLE 
Officers to whom potice should be Officers whose salaries and allo 
sent. 

wances are attached . 
Under Secretary (Administration ) 

All officers in the Department of 

of Company Law Administration , 
Department of Company Law 

All officers in the offices of the Re 
Administration , Ministry of Fi 

gional Directors , Company Law 
nance , New Delhi. 

Administration , Registrars of 
Companies and Official Liquida 
tors under the Department of 

Company Law Administration , 
2 . This Department Notification of even number , dated the 19th February, 
1957, issued in this behalf is hereby cancelled . 

[No . 1 ( 24 ) -CLA /56 . ] 
J. L , KUNDU , Dy . Secy . 


BEC . 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20 , 1957/ ASADHA 29, 1879 1577 


(Department of Rovenue ) 

ORDERS 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 1st July 1957 
S . R . O . 2354. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamps Act , 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby remits the stamps duty chargeable on the following documents 
executed or made by a banking company as defined in the Banking Companies 
Act 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) in liquidation in the whole of the territories , which im 
mediately before the 1st November , 1956 , were comprised in the State of Patiala 
and East Punjab States Union during the course of liquidation proceedings, 
namely : 
Every transfer of shares , debentures , proxies, receipts or other proceed 

ings , instrument or writing whatsoever falling under entry 91 of 
the Union List before or under any order of the court, and copies 
thereof. 

[No . 19.) 
S . R . O . 2355 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub -sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamps Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central 
Government hereby remits the stamp dụty chargeable on the following documents . 
executed or made by a banking company as defined in the Banking Companies 
Act 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) in liquidation in the whole of the territories , which im 
mediately before the 1st November , 1956, were comprised in the State of 
Punjab during the course of liquidation proceedings , namely : — 
Every transfer of shares, debentures, proxies, receipts or other pro 

ceedings , instrument or writing whatsoever falling under entry 91 
of the Union List before or under any order of the court, and copies 
thereof. 

[No. 20 .] 
M . PANCHAPPA , Under Secy. . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 20th July 1957 . 
S .R . O . 2856 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government makes the following amendment 
to the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue ) No . CER - 3 ( 24 ) / 56 - Central Excises , dated the 17th October , 1956 , 
namely — 

In the said notification for the proviso, the following proviso shall be 
substituted , namely , 
" Provided that the said exemption shall not apply to soap , other than 
household and laundry , toilet monopole and textile soaps ." 

[No. 59 /57. ] 


S . R . O . 2357. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1) of rule 8 
of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry and in supersession of the notification of the Government 
of India , Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. CER - 3 ( 27 ) /56 
Central Excises, dated the 3rd November 1956, the Central Government hereby 
exempts , from the duty leviable thereon , any quantity not exceeding 200 tons 
of soap , household and laundry, toilet , monopole or textile , or of all, cleared 
for consumption in India by any manufacturer on or after the first day of April 
in any financial year : 


Provided that the maximum limit to be taken into account for the purpose 
of the said exemption shall, in the case of soap in or in relation to the . 


1578 THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29, 1879 


(PART II 


manufacture of which any process is ordinarily carried on with the aid of power 
or of steam for heating , be 

( a ) 125 tons in the case of houschold and laundry soap , 

( b ) 50 tons in the case of toilet, monopole or textile soap ; 
Provided further that where a factory producing soap is run at different 
- times of the financial year by different manufacturers, the quantity of such soap 
cleared from such factory in any such year without payment of duty shall not 
in any case exceed the said limits , 

[ No. 60 /57.] 
B . D . DESHMUKH , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Revenue ) 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 20th July 1957 
S .R . O . 2358 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby prohibits the taking by sea or 
by land out of India or the State of Pondicherry of articles of the following 
description or of any literature or advertisement relating to any such article, 
namely : 


Description 
Charm , mascot , talisman or any other article of a like nature , by whatever 
name known , the possession of which is alleged to bring material prosperity , 
matrimonial happiness , success in love affairs , examination and litigation or any 
other gain or is alleged to cndow its possessor with occult powers of a super 
natural , mystical or magical character , 

[No . 159.] 
M . A , RANGASWAMY, Dy. Secy . 


ERRATA 


In the Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue s Notification No . S . R . O . 
2110 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II - Section 3 , dated the 29th June, 
1957, the following correction is to be made: - - 

Page 1349 , para 2 ( 4 ) , for " rule 18 " read " rule 17 " . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

New Delhi- 2 the 13th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2359. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause, ( c ) of section 9 
of the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to 
the State of Pondicherry , and in supersession of the Central Board of Revenue 
notification No. 49 - Customs, dated the 30th June, 1956 , the Central Board of 
Revenue hereby makes the following rules to provide for the service of notice 
in proceedings relating to adjudication of confiscation of goods and imposition of 
fine, penalty or increased rate of duty under the said Act : 


RULES 
1 . Every Customs Officer , in any case where the owner or other person con 
cerned in an offence (hereinafter referred to as " the said person " ) is known , 
before adjudging confiscation of goods or imposing fine, penalty or increased rate 
of duty under the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , shall give or cause to be 
given notice of his intention to so adjudicate to the said person , setting out 
clearly the grounds for the proposed action . Every such notice shall be delivered 
by hand to the said person or sent by registered post to the last address furnished 
to the Customs authorities by him or , where no such address has been furnished , 
to the address otherwise known to the Customs authorities, If the said person 


Sec . 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29, 18791579 


- 


has any agent, such notice may be delivered to such agent or sent to him by. 
registered post : 

Provided that no notice shall be necessary where tho said person declares in 
writing that he is aware of the contravention alleged against him and desires 
after furnishing such explanation as he thinks necessary , that orders thereon may 
be passed as early as possible . 

2 . Where the Customs officer is satisfied that the said person or his agent, as 
the case may be, is kecping out of the way for the purpose of avoiding scrvice 
of notice , or that for any other reason a notice cannot be served by registered post, 
he shall cause an intimation in the form onnexed to be affixed on the notice 
board of his office, and shall also publish such intimation in a newspaper having 
circulation in the locality where the said person is known to have last resided 
or carried on business or personally worked for gain : 

Provided that it shall not be necessary to publish such intimation in any 
newspaper if the value of the goods involved in the case is Rs. 500 or below . 

3 . If delivery of the notice is not taken within the time- limit specified in the 
intimation referred to in rule 2 or the delivery having been taken no reply is 
received to the notice within the time allowed therein , the Customs Office may 
proceed ex parte . 

4 . No such intimation or notice shall be deemed void on account of any error 
in the name or designation of any person referred to therein unless such error has . 
produced a material misconception of the intended intimation . 

Office of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . Custom House 

Intimation 
Το 


Where as a notice to show cause why action to adjudge confiscation or impose 
fine, penalty or increased rate of duty should not be taken against you and / or 
the goods described below under the provisions of section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the 
Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , has been pending in the office of the under 
signed for want of service on you , you are hereby informed that you should arrange 
for taking delivery of the said notice on any working day on or before the 
. . . . . . . . . failing which the case will be adjudicated ex parte . 

Particulars of the goods . 
, the 

195 

Designation of 
Customs Collector . . . . . 

. . . . . CustomsHouse 

[ No. 153 . ] 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 20th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2360. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applicd to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Board of Revcnuc hereby makes the following rule , 
namely : 

The powers in relation to the removal of goods from one warehouse to 
another in the same port and from one warehousing port to another vested in the 
Chief Customs Officcr under section 104 and 105 of the Sca Customs Act, 1878 
( 8 of 1878 ) , respectively , shall be exercisable also by the Assistant Collector , 
Bonds Department, 

[ No. 160 . ] 

M . A . RANGASWAMY , Secy. 
CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , BARODA 

Baroda , the 5th July , 1957 

Amendment to Central Excise Notification No. 7 / 57. 

Ref. : - Barnda Central Excise Collectorate, Notification No. 4 /56 . 
S . R . O . 2361. — Tlic following items are inserted after item No. 6 in the annexure to this 
Collectorate Central Excise No. 4 / 1956 . 
Manufacturers of excisable products . . . No cxcisable article subjected to restriction 

under Rule 5o . 
(7 ) Woollen fabrics . . . . . Woollen fabrics contaisting less than 40 

percent of woolby weight. 
(8 ) Staple fibre yarn . . . . . (1 ) Cotton yarn . 

(2 ) Staple Fibre yarn containing 90 percent 
or less of staple fibre . 

G . KORUTHU , 
Collectorate of Central Excise , Baroda . 


1580 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[PART LI 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 15th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2362. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Delhi 
( Control of Building Operations ) Act, 1955 (No, 53 of 1955 ) , the Delhi Develop 
ment Provisional Authority hereby makes the following amendment to its notif 
cation No . F . 1 ( 4 ) / 55 - Admn, dated the 10th June 1957, viz . 
( a ) For “ Delhi Municipal Ward No. XVI" appearing against item No. 8 of 

the schedule , substitute the following 
" Delhi Municipal Ward No. XVI excluding the Western Extension Scheme 

of the Delhi Improvement Trust." ; 
( b ) For " Delhi Municipal Ward No. XII excluding the areas covered by the 

Roshanara Extension Scheme and Northern City Extension Scheme 
No. II of the Delhi Improvement Trust appearing against item No. 4 

of the schedule." substitute the following 
" Delhi Municipal Ward No. XII excluding the areas covered by the Roshan 

ara Extension Scheme and Northern City Extension Scheme No. II 
of the Delhi Improvement Trust and the Northern City Extension 

Scheme No . I of the Delhi Municipal Committee ." 
( c ) For " Delhi Municipal Ward No. XIV excluding the areas covered by the 

Ahata Kidara Scheme of the Delhi Improvement Trust" appearing 

against item No. 6 of the schedule substitute the following - - 
" Delhi Municipal Ward No. XIV excluding the areas covered by the Ahata 

Kidara Scheme of the Delhi Improvement Trust and Basti Harphool 
Singh Scheme of the Delhi Municipal Committee." 

[No. F . 1 ( 4 ) /55 -Admn.] 

G . MUKHARJI, Secy. 
MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 27th June 1957 
S .R . O . 2363 . - - In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1) of rule 48 of order XXI of the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 (Act 7 of 1908 ) , the Central 
Government hereby appoints the officers specified in column 1 of the table below as 
officers to whom notices of orders attaching the salaries and allowances of the 
officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the said table shall 
be sent: 

TABLE 


Omcers to whom noticc should be 

sent 


OMcers whose salaries are 

attached 


I. Ministry of I. & P . 
Under Secretary (Administration ) in Gazetted and Non -Gazetted Officers, 

the Ministry of Irrigation and 
Power , New Delhi, 

Office of the Chambal Control Board 
Under Secretary (Administration ) in Gazctted and Non -Gazetted Officers . 

the Ministry of Irrigation and I 
Power , New Delhi. 

Office of Hirakud Control Board. 
Under Secretary (Administration ) in Gazetted and Non -Gazetted Oncers. 

the Ministry of Irrigation and 

Power , New Delhi. 
II. Central Water and Power Commission (Water , Power & Flood Wings ) and 

their subordinate offices 
Chairman , C . W , & P .C ., New Delhi, Gazetted and Non -Gazetted Officers . 
III. Office of the Chief Engineer, Hirakud Dam Project , District Sambalpore , 

Orissa 
Chief Engineer, Hirakud Dam Project, Gazetted and Non -Gazetted Officers. 

P . O . Burla , District Sambalpore 
(Orissa ) . 

This Ministry s Notification No. 21 ( 10 ) /56 - Adm .II , dated the 20th May , 1956 
is cancelled , 

[No. 37 /57- 21 ( 10 ) / 36 -ADM . II . ] 

R . R . BAHL , Joint Secy . 


SEC. 8] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 187915 81 


New Delhi, the 11th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2384 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of Sec 
tion 8 of the Provident Funds Act , 1925 (XIX of 1925 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the name of the following public institution shall be 
added to the Schedule to the said Act, namely : 


" The Damodar Valley Corporation " . 


[ No . 43 ( 14 )DVC /59.) 


S . R . O . 2365 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of sec 
tion 8 of the Provident Funds Act, 1925 (XIX of 1925 ) , read with the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation and Power , No. 43 
( 14 ) DVC /58, dated the 11th July , 1957 the Central Government hereby directs 
that the provisions of the said Act shall apply to the Provident Fund established 
for the benefit of the employees of the Damodar Valley Corporation constituted 
under the Damodar Valley Corporation Act , 1948 (XIV of 1948 ) . 

[No. 43 ( 14 )DVC /53.] 
R . R . RAO , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(Department of Agriculture ) 
New Delhi, the 12th July 1957 


S . R . O . 2366 . - - In pursuance of clause 3 of the Fertilisers (Control) Order , 1967, 
the Central Government hereby fixes the prices specified in Columns III and 
IV of the Schedule hcreto annexed as the maximum prices at which fertilisers 
specified in the corresponding entry in Column II of the said Schedule may be 
sold by a manufacturer or a dealer to a cultivator and to the owners of a tea 
or coffec plantation respectively : 


SCHEDULE 


Maximum prices throughout India unless otherwise specified 


Column 1 Column II 


Column III 


Column IV 


Item 
Number. 


Nam ? of 
Fertiliser 


If sold for use to a culd -) 

vater 


If sold for use to a tea or coffee 

plantation , 


I. 


Rs. por long ton . 
Ammonium Sulphate 380 


Rs. per long ton , 
422 in the case of tea plantations 
in West Bengal and Assam . 

and 
405 for tea and coffce plantations 

in South India , 
450 


Ammonium Sulphate 450 

Nitrate 
Urea 

740 
Calcium Amyonium 360 

Nitrate 


740 


360 


[No. 1 . 12 - 105 /66 - M . ] 

T. C . PURI, 
Controller of Fertilisers and Joint Secy . 


1582 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[Part II 


(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 15th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2367. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules , 1957, the President 
hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule 
to the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Agriculture 
No . S . R .O . 634 - A , dated the 28th February , 1957, namely : --- 
In part I of the said Schedule under the heading " Central Tractor Orga 

nisation " , sub -heading “ Divisional Offices" (i ) to the entry " All 
Fosts" in column l, the words " with initial pay exceeding Rs. 99 
per month " shall be added and ( ii ) after the existing entries , the 
following entries shall be inserted, namely : - - 

(Part I- -General Central Service , Class III.) 


2 


Head of Office 


Head of Office 


All, 


Chair nan 


All posts with initial 
pay not exceeding 
Rs. 99 per month 


[No. 3 - 27 /67- LR ) 
GURBACHAN SINGH , Under Sacy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi- 2, the 20th June 1957 
S . R . O . 2368, - In pursuance of sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 7 of the 
Drugs Act, 1940 (23 of 1940 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
following further amendment shall be made in the Notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Health No. F . 1 - 3 / 47 - D ( II ) , dated the 13th September , 
1948, constituting the Drugs Consultative Committee, namely : 

In the said Notification , under the heading " Nominated by Central Government" 
for entries 1 and 2 , the following entries shall be substituted , namely :-- - 

" 1. Shri S . K . Borkar , Drugs Controller (India ) . 
2 . Shri P . S . Ramchandran , Directorate General of Health Services ” . 

[No. F . 4 - 2 /57- D .) 
D . J. BALARAJ, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 12th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2369,-- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) and 
clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 3 of the Delhi (Control of Building 
Operations) Act , 1955 (53 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri D . P . Karnik , Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply 
as a representative of the Central Government from the Ministry of Works, 
Housing and Supply on the Delhi Development Provisional Authority in place 
of Shri S . P , Sakscna who was nominated in this Ministry s notification 
No, F . 30 - 16 / 56 - LSG , dated the 3rd October , 1966 and makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Health No. 30 - 5 / 55 - LSG , dated the 2nd November, 1055, namely : - 

In the said notification , for Serial No. 3, the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 
3 . Shri D . P . Karnik , Deputy Secretary (Representative of the Central 

Government from the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply ) . 
This notification shall be deemed to have taken effect on the 25th February , 
1957 . 

[No. F . 12 - 62 / 57 -LSG .] 
A . V . VENKATASUBBAN , Dy. Secy . 


Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 19, 1879 1583 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND FUEL 

(Department of Mines and Fuel) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1957 
S .R . O .2370. - In pursuance of clause 7 of ihe Cullicry Control Order, 1915 , as continued in 
force by section 16 of the Essential Commodities ACI ( 10 of 1975 ), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the owner , wgent or manager of every Colliery Coke Plants including Gas Coke Plants 
and Washeriey in India despatching coal or coke or both hyming other than rail shall prepare cach 
month and send to the Coal Controller 10 the Government of India , No, I , Council House Street , 
Calcutta , so 19 to reach him not later than joth of each month a currect return in duplicate in the 
Form " RD " appended herclo of detailcd (industrywisc and statewise ) despatches of coal or coke 
or both for the month immediately preceding. The first return shall be sent so as to reach the Coal 
Controller not later than the zoth Tuly , 1957 . 

FORM " RD " 


Return of despatches of Coal and Coke by means other than Ruil during the month ofmore 19 . 


- - 


- 


- Name of Colliery . . . . . . . . 
2. Location of Collicry . . . . . 
5. Grade of coalraised . . . 


3 . Namcof Owner . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
4 . Address of Owner . . . . . . . 


Nameof Industry 


Despatches of coal and coke in tons to the 

consumers in the States of (a ) 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


Ing 


1. Electric Supply Co s. 
2 . Iron and Steel Works . 
3 . Ceinent Facturies 
4 . Pottery Works , 
5 . Refractory Works 
6 . Glass Factories . 
7 . Cotton Mille . 
8 . Silk Factories . 
9 . Ginning and Pressing Factories . 
TO . Jutc Mills 
TI . Z Class ( Includes Soft cokc requirements of 

domestic consumers ). . . 
12 . Engineenng and Foundries 
13. Rubber Factories , 
14 . Paper Mills . 
15. Tobacco Manulucturing 
16 . Tobacco Curing 
17 . Lime and Stone Works 
18 . Enamel Works . 
19 . Mica Mines - . 
20 . Match Factorice 
21, Food Products 
27 . Leather Works . 
23 . Vanaspatı l actories 
24 . Other Oil Mills 
25 . Chemical Wurks 
26 . Soap Works . 
27 . Distillery Works 
28 . Sugar Mills . 
29 . Re-Rolling Mills 
30 . Toa Gardens , 
31. Miscellaneous Concerns 
32 . Ice Factorics , 
33 . Hospital Concern 
34 , Dairy Works , . 
35. Jait Concerns . . . . 

- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


1584 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29, 1879 


[ PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


O 


I 


36 . Educational Institutions 
37 , Petty Steamer Services 
28 . Coke Ovens . . 
39 . Brick Burning , 
40 . Others ( Specify details below ) 


Toral . . . . 
(u ) Consumcrs in different states should be shown in separate columns above . 


NOTE — 
I. Coal or coke uscd solely for consumption at the Colliery should not be included in 

this return , 
2 . The total despatch figures given in the return should be identical with the figures of 

road despatchey furnished in the returns in Form I. 
3 . This return should invariably be sent to the Coal Controller on or before joth of 

cvery month along with the returns in Forms I , IA and IB . 


Signature of Owner or Agent or Manager of 


Colliery . 


Dated . . . . . . 


[No. 11/5/57 -CI.] 
A . NANU , Dy. Secy , 


( Department of Iron & Steel ) 

New Delhi, the 15th July , 1957. 
S . R . O . 2371. - In exercise of the power s conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 11 , 
clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 14 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 23 of the Central 
Civil Services ( Classification , Control & Appcal) Rules , 1957, the President here 
by directs that the following amendments shall be made in the Schedule to the 
Notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Heavy Industries 
No. S . R . O . 631 - A dated the 28th February , 1957 namely , 

In part III, under the heading " Organisation of the Iron and Steel Controller , 
Calcutta " : - 
( i) For the words " Administrative Officer" occurring in columns 2 and 3 

against the entry " Headquarters Office " , in column 1, the words and 
brackets " Deputy Director (Administration ) " shall be substituted ; 

and 
( ii) For the words " Assistant Iron and Steel Controller " occurring in 

columns 2 and 3 against the entry " Regional Offices " in column 1 , 
the words, brackets and figures " Assistant Iron and Steel Controller 
(Grade I ) of the region concerned " shall be substituted . 

[No , IS ( B ) - 4 ( 36 ) / 57 -ESTC .) 
S . C . MUKHERJEE , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi- 2, the 16th July , 1957 


S . R . O . 2372. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the 
Cinematograph Art, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) and rule 3 of the Cinematograph 
( Censorship ) Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby appoints until further 
orders Shri M . D . Bhat, a retired officer of the Indian Civil Service , as a member 
of the Central Board of Film Censors and also to be the Chairman thereof, with 
effect from 15th July , 1957 vice Shri D . L . Kothari. 

[No. 11 / 4 / 57 -FC .) 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy. 


Sec . 8 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1879 1885 
= = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = = 

= = 
MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 3rd July 1957 
S . R . O . 2373 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is neces 
sary to acquire the evacuce property known as Mir Laik Ali Farm specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed in the State of Andhra Pradesh for a public 
purpose , being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced 
persons, including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 12 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , it is notified that the Central Government has decided to acquire , 
and hereby acquires, the evacuee property specified in the Schedulc hereto 
annexed . 

THE SCHEDULE 
Agricultural land known as Mir Laik Ali Farm in Nizamabad District of 
Andhra Pradesh , 
Name of the Evacuee : Mir Laik Ali. 

[No. 11 ( 2 ) / 56 -Prop . I/ SIII.] 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2374 / R .Amdt.XVI. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 40 
of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment 
to the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , 
namely : 

In Chapter IX of the said Rules, after rule 70 , the following rule shall be 
inserted , namely : 
" 70A . Groves and gardens allotted in rural areas to displaced persons who 

hold verified claim for garden - lands. - Notwithstanding anything con 
tained in rule 70, where a displaced person who owned in West 
Pakistan a garden in rural area measuring 2 acres or more irrigated 
or 4 acres or more unirrigated , is allotted a garden in rural area 
measuring 2 acres or more irrigated or 4 acres or more unirrigated , 
then , the garden so allotted shall be evaluated by the Settlement 
Commissioner in terms of standard acres . Such garden shall be 
transferred to the allottee against the net compensation payable 
to him in respect of his verified claim for the garden left in rural 
area in West Pakistan ." 

( No. F . 4 ( 35 ) 56 - SIII. ] 
S .R . O , 2876 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (31 of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri L . J . Johnson , Joint Secretary , Ministry of Rehabilitation , 
as Custodian General of Evacuce Property, with cffect from the 15th July , 1957. 

[No . 3 / 10 /57 - S .II. ) 
P . GANGULEE , Dy , Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2376 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H . C . Sehgal as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post . 

[No. F . 7 / 58 /57- SII.) 
New Delhi, the 11th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2377 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 uf 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Daya Shankar as Assistant Settle 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer 
by or under the said Act , with affect from the date he took charge of his post . 

[ No . F . 7 /46 /57- S. II. ] 


1986 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 /ASADHA 29, 1879 


[ PART 11 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2378. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rchabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M . L . Bhai as Assistant 
Settlement Olficer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officer by or under the said Act , with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post. 

[No. F . 7 / 61/ 57 - SII. ] 


S . R . O . 2879. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Gajendra Singh , 
I. A . S . as Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing 
the functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act with effect 
from the date he took charge of his office . 


[No. 5 / 16 / 57 - SII. ] 


New Delhi, the 20th July 1957 
S .R . O . 2380. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Adminis 
tration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (31 of 1950 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri M . Li Vijh , Special Judicial Officer, Ministry of Rehabili 
tation , as Deputy Custodian General of Evacuee Property , with effect from the 
15th July , 1957 . 

[No. XIII- 3 ( 3 ) /67-PII / S . II. ] 
L . B . MATHUR , Under Secy . 


(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 


New Delhi, the 11th July 1957 


S . R . O . 2381. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 34 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 
1954, I delegate to Shri Gajendra Singh , Deputy Chief Settlement Commissioner, 
the following powers of the Chief Settlement Commissioner : 

( i) Power to hear appeals under Section 23 of the said Act. 
( li) Power to hear revisions under Section 24 of the said Act . 

[No. 12 (3 ) Admn . (Int) / 57.] 

L . J. JOHNSON , 
Chief Settlement Commissioner , 


- - - 


- - - 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR & EMPLOYMENT 


New Delhi, the 11th July 1957 


S . R . O . 2382. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
4 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 ( 32 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the proceeds of the duty levied under the said 
Act on and after the 1st April, 1957 and credited to the Coal Mincs Labour 
Housing and General Welfare Fund shall be apportioned between the Housing 
Account and the General Welfare Account in following proportion , namely : 
Housing account 

Thirty - one Naye Paise. 
General Welfare account 

. . Six Naye Paise . 

[NO,MII-4 ( 7 ) / 57.] 


Sec . 8 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29, 1979 1587 
- - -- - - - - - - = : : - : . - - - - - ---- - - - - - -- - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 16th July 1957 
S . R . O , 2383 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Coal 
Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1947 (32 of 1947 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment to the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund 
Rules , 1949, the same having been previously published as required by sub - section 
( 1 ) of the said section , namely : 

In the said rules, for sub - rulc ( 2 ) of rule 1, the following sub - rule shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" ( 2 ) They extend to the whole of India including the United Khasi Jaintia 
Hills District, but excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir. " 

[No. M - 1 (8 ) /51.] 
R . M . DOIPHODE, Under Secy, 


New Delhi, the 12th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2384 . — In pursuance of paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds Scheme, 1952, the Central Government hereby nominates Shri D . S . 
Nakra , Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance , 
vice Shri K , L , Ghei to be a member of the Board of Trustees ( Central Board ) 
constituted under the said Scheme and makes the following further amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour No. 
S . R . O . 1861 dated the 31st October , 1952 , namely : 

In the said notification , for the entry " 4 Shri K . L . Ghei, Joint Secretary 
to the Government of India , Ministry of Finance , New Delhi" , the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted , namely : 

4 . Shri D . S . Nakra, Joini Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 

of Finance , New Delhi." 


[No. P . F . II / 45 ( 21 ) /57. ] 


S . R . O . 2385. - -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the em 
ployer and the majority of the employees in relation to the Head Office establish 
ment of Messrs . Tropical Plantations Limited , Kottayam , Kerala , have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the Employecs Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said establish 
ment. 

2. This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day 
of April, 1957. 

[No. P . F .11.67 (26 )67.] 


S . R . O . 2386 . — In pursuance of paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Employees Provi 
dent Funds Scheme, 1952 , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No. S .R . O . 1861, dated the 31st October, 1962, namely : 
. In the said notification , for entry 11, the following entry shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" 11, Shri R . H . Mody , Deputy Agent, the Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd ., 28 - B , 
Netaji Subhas Road, Calcutta " . 

[ No, P .F. II.83 (19)87.) 


New Delhi, the 13th July 1967 
S . R . O . 2387.--- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
scction 7 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1962 ) , the Central 
Government horoby directs that consequent on the introduction of the decimal 
coinage system udopted under the Indian Coinage (Amendment) Act , 1956 , the 


Is88THỀ GAZETTE OF INDIA: JULY 20, 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 


[ Part II 


following further amendments shall be made in the Employees Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1962, with effect from the 1st April, 1957, namely : - 

1. For paragraph 29 of the said Scheme, the following paragraph shall be 
substituted , namely : 
“ 29. Contribution ( 1 ) The contributions payable by the employer under 

the Scheme shall be at the rate of 62 per cent of the basic wages 
and the dearness allowance ( including the cash value of any food 

concession ) payable to each employce to whom the Scheme applies . 
( 2 ) The contribution payable by the employee under the Schemc shall 

be cqual to the contribution payable by the employer in respect of 

such employee . 
( 3 ) The contributions shall be calculated on the basis of the basic wages 

and dearness allowance ( including the cash value of any food con 
cession ) actually drawn during the whole month whether paid on 

daily , weekly , fortnightly or monthly basis." 
2 . For sub - paragraph ( 2 ) of paragraph 59 of the said Scheme, the following 
sub -paragraph shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( 2 ) All items of account shall be calculated to the nearest quarter of 

a rupee , that is , 12 . 5 naye paise or more shall be counted as the 
next higher quarter of a rupee and fractions of a rupee less than 
12 : 5 naye paise shall be ignored ." 

[ No. PF . 11 - 54 ( 50 ) /57. ] 


S . R . O . 2388 . The following draft of certain further amendments of the 
Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1956 which the 
Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) 
Act , 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , is published as required by the said sub - section for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 10th 
August 1957 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Scheme, in clause 9 — 

( a ) In sub - clause ( 1 ) , for item ( j) , the following item shall be substituted , 
namely : - 
“ (1 ) ( 1) to sanction the creation of posts the maximum salary of which 

exclusive of allowances is below Rs. 300 per month ; 
( 11) to make appointments to posts the maximum salary of which 

exclusive of allowances is below Rs. 300 per month ;" 
( b ) for sub - clause ( 2 ) , the following sub - clause shall be substituted, 
namely : 
" ( 2 ) The Chairman may, subject to such conditions as he thinks fit, delegate 

in writing to the Deputy Chairman any of thc functions under sub 
clause ( 1 ) exccpting those mentioned in items ( j ) ( i ) , ( m ) , ( n ) , ( o ) , 
( q ) , ( r ) and ( s ) . Such delegation , however , shall not divest the 
Chairman of his powers." 

[No. Fac. 171 ( 7 ) /57. ] 
R . C . SAKSENA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 10th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2389 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby 
constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with headquarter at Delhi and appoints 
Shrt I . Krishnamurthi, a retired District and Session Judge of Madras , as the 
Presiding Officer of that Tribunal. 

(LR - 10 ( 10 ) /56.) 


Sec . 3 ] 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 / ASADHA 29 , 1879 1589 
SSSSSS 

New Delhi, the 13th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2390 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under section 
33A of the said Act from Shri Setu Rana , a workman of the Port Commissioners, 
Calcutta . 
BEFORE THE SOLE MEMBER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 
APPLICATION No. 28 OF 1957 (UNDER SECTION 33A ) 

( In Reference No. 1 of 1956) 
Shri Setu Rana - Jamadar, Police Liaison Officer s Department, Calcutta Port 

Commissioners , C / o Calcutta Port Commissioners Workers Union , 3 , Joy 
Krishna Paul Road, Calcutta - 23 -- Applicant, 

Versus 
The Chairman , Commissioners for the Port of Calcutta , 15 , Strand Road , 

Calcutta - Opposite Party . 
In the matter of an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 

PRESENT; 

Shri A . Das Gupta , Sole Member . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the Applicant - Shri A . L . Roy , Calcutta Port Commissioners Workers 

Union , Calcutta , 
For the Opposite Party Shri K . B . Bose , Counsel with Shri N . M . Das 
Gupta , Advocate . 

AWARD 
The present application under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act has 
been filed by Sctu Rana, Jamadar , Police Liaison Officer s Department, Calcutta 
Port Commissioners , complaining that he has been wrongly suspended by the 
Port Commissioners without permission of this Tribunal as contemplated by 
section 33 of the Act . The application is opposed by the Port Commissioners , 

2 . Setu Rana has been living since about the middle of 1953 in the new 
Watchmen Camp at Alipore , better known as Alipore Camp. The quarters at 
Alipore camp are for workmen under the Police Liaison Officer , Port Commis 
sioners, who have been living at Calcutta without family . In February 1956 
Setu Rana went home on leave on account of his wife s illness and returned to 
Calcutta with his family on the expiry of his leave to the quarters at Alipore 
Camp which he had been occupying immediately before he went on leave. His 
occupation of the quarters at Alipore with his family was held under objection 
by the Police Liaison Omcer on the ground that the quarters at Alipore were 
non - family quarters . Setu Rana accordingly submitted an application to the 
Police Liaison Officer on the 14th March , 1956 (Ext. 1 . 1 ) for suitable quarters 
where he might live with his family . The Police Liaison Officer wrote to the 
Welfare Officer who was in charge of quarters to provide suitable quarters to 
Setu Rana ( Ext . E . 7 ) . Setu Rana was directed to report to the office of the 
Welfarc Omcer on 10th May , 1956 at 11 AM . The evidence is that Setu Rana 
reported to the Weltare Officer as directed and he was , on the same very day , 
allotted quarter No . 11. Block C at Argarah Mazdoor Lines . But Setu Rana 
did not communicate the acceptance of the quarter to the Welfare Officer , nor 
did he shift from the quarters at Alipore. He was repeatedly asked by the 
Police Liaison Officer both verbally and in writing to vacate the Alipore quarter 
but he did not pay any heed . Ultimately by a letter dated the 28th May 1956 
(Ext. E .9 ) he was directed to shift to quarter No. 11, Block C at Argarah 
Mazdoor Lines, within 48 hours from the receipt of the letter and it was made 
clear to him that in the event of his failure to comply with the direction he 
would be referred to the Secretary for necessary action . This ultimatum also 
failed to have the desired effect . and the Police Liaison Oncer was compelled 
to report the matter to the Welfare Officer who was in charge of disciplinary 
action . The letter is dated 9th June, 1958 ( Ext. E . 10 ) . As a gesture of good 
will, the authorities did not immcdiately take any disciplinary action against 
Setu Rana. They waited for a considerable length of time thinking that good 
sense would prevail and Setu Rana would vacate the non - family quarters at 


1590 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957 /ASADHA : 9 , 1879 

[Part II 
- - - 

- - - - > 
Alipore. It was only when such expectations of the authority were belied by 
the obstinacy of Setu Rana , they decided to take disciplinary action against him . 
He was placed under suspension pending enquiry by a letter dated 9th March , 
1957 and a departmental enquiry was started . Charge - shects were duly issued 
to him on 16th April, 1957. He was asked to submit a written explanation and 
to attend the departmental enquiry . Setų Rana raised some points for clari 
fication and the departmental enquiry was held up for some reason or other . 
Sotu Rana then Aled the present application before tl15 Tribunal on the 8th 
April, 1957 and the departmental enquiry was held up on an objection raised 
by Sotu Rana that the dcpartmental enquiry during the pendency oi the appli 
cation under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act, was without jurisdiction 
and was prejudicial to the interest of the workman concerned . 


3 . The only question that arises in the present case is whether suspension 
pending enquiry is hit by section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act and can be 
9 subject matter of a complaint under section 33A of the Act. Under Section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, a Tribunal can assume jurisdiction over an indus 
trial dispute only on a reference by the appropriate Government. Section 33A 
authorises a Tribunal to assume jurisdiction over a grievance of the workman , 
under special circumstances, without a formal reference from the Government. 
Section 33A of the Act is a special provision vesting Industrial Tribunal with 
special jurisdiction . The conditions under which this special provision may be 
invoked must be fulAlied before the Tribunal can assume jurisdiction over an 
industrial dispute without any reference from the appropriate Government. The 
conditions are ( 1 ) that the adjudication procecdings in respect of an industrial 
dispute must be pending before an Industrial Tribunal, ( 2 ) that during the 
pondency of the procecdings the employer must have done some positive act 
to the prejudice of the workman contemplated by clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 
33 without the express permission of the Industrial Tribunal before which the 
procecdings are pending, and ( 3 ) that such contravention is in respect of work 
man concerned in the proceedings pending adjudication . 

4 . That the conditions ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) are present is not disputed. The only 
question raised before me is whether suspension pending enquiry is an act con 
templated by clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of section 33 . 

5 . It has been settled by decisions of thc Labour Appellate Tribunal as also 
of the Hon ble Supreme Court that suspension pending enquiry is not hit by 
scction 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act. In this view of the casc thc present 
application under section 33A of the Act is not maintainable . 

6 . A question has been raised on behalf of the complainant that the order of 
suspension was not passed by the departmental head , namely , the Secretary , 
as required by the Standing Orders of the Port Commissioners . The suspension 
order reads as follows: 
" I am directed to inform you that you have been suspended from pay and 

duty with effcct from 9th March , 1957 for failing to comply with 
the instructions contained in this office letter No . LO / P /382 / 1815 , 
dated 28th May 1956 pending cnquiry. 

( Sd ) A . ŞEN GUPTA , 

Police Liaison Onicer ." 
The order as communicated to Setu Rana cloarly indicates that the order was 
passed by some higher authorities and the Police Liaison Officer only communi 
cated the order under orders of the authority . The written statement in reply 
to the position of complaint for the Port Commissioners appears to have been 
signed by the Secretary . No exception appears to have been taken by Setu Rana 
in his petition of complaint about the authority of the Police Ljaison Oncer to 
communicate the ordor . Nor was any objection suggested against the validity 
of the suspension order except that at the hearing the suspension order was 
assalled on the ground of lack of authority . The cvidence on the point clearly 
indicates that the Police Liaison Officer did not himself take any steps against 
Sctu Rana although he felt very much annoyed by the conduct of the latter . 
He reported the matter to the proper authority and after a lapse of time he com 
municated the order of suspension to Setu Rana If Setu Rana had raised the 
objection earlier. Port Commissioners could have placed better evidence before 
the Tribunal to meet thc complainant s contention . In the present circumstances 
of the case , I must prcsume that official works have been duly performed . In 
Any case the suspension order appears to have been ratified or rather confirmed 
by the Secretary who is the departmental head . I am not accordingly inclined 
to attach any importance to the contention raised on bchalf of Setu Raną . 


SEC, 81 





THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JULY 20 , 1957/ASADHA 29 , 1879 1591 


7 . In the result, it is ordered that the application under section 33A be dis 
missed . Parties shall bear their own costs . 

A . Das GUPTA , 

President, 
CALCUTTA ; 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 
The 4th July , 1957 . 

Calcutta . 
[No. LR - 3 ( 82 ) / 54.] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th July 1957 
S . R . O . 2391. - Whereas by an order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour No . LRII /57 - 1 / 32 / 57 dated the 6th July , 1957 an industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Sone Valley Portland Cement 
Limestone Quarries , Baulia , and their workmen has been referred to an Industrial 
Tribunal for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence in Messrs Sone 
Valley Portland Cement Limestone Quarries, Baulia . 

[No. LRII /57- 1 / 32 / 87 .) 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1957 


