I* 



extraordinary 

l-w** i 

PART I—Section 1 

n ^ HWlfsifT 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

tro sj] pf trpipiT, 3T5 ?ct 12 , iB85/ifir 22 , ieo7 

No. 81] NEW DELHI, FRIDAY, APRIL 12,1985/CHAITRA 22,1907 


Ttr ww if fvrsr to p'ptn v t imft f far. srmr topt qtfir# 

"ty 1 on 

Separate Paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a 

separate compilation 


mfonp *fwnr 

sromf wtrnr ffafaer 

^ntorfar ^rn jt, 1 snf. if (sX <ft.)/ss— as 
!tf 12 sofa, lass 

Pun; —i9a5—rrH 1 9ss tit atwd fatrfrr htfa 1 
arr. rt. srrf. <rt. iff. I 3 / 17 / 35 '—w ^lP n^ ^orr %■ 
apra^r*r arpm n*r fthfa ^tYPt (fs-i), 1 98 5-88 tft 

2 . ntfa ?r ^ fan, ’pr ttto PtFfi tt fTOfafarr vjfe 
nn; if tnwt ^rnirTl :_ 

sr ammrtpf ^ ^ 

tf. fanfaifVfa 

198 5-8 8 («PJT- 

___ 


rrfafa^-2 ttorpr trftfrr tf. ( 107 ) 

vuiT-JJ % HTT Pl , ^ff'3p5 r T Mprffe 

uirfaf tfr impFr .— 
"( 107 -T) utt if. fX 
faprr sjysr ^ fas 
m aft 'rfaffa^-o gfa 
a »fr wnr-i Jr ^farfas 

11” 


1 

2 3 

4 

( 2 ) 

290 9 frfW -19 

nrroffa 'tfarr Jr. "( + )” 


tor-i 7 

% faf tit trrt: 


farartr iffa 

"(f)” ^ ITT Jr S^T 



srnFrr 

(•I) 

325 'TfYfW -21 % 

^ 'tfarr Jf"(tr)"tw tit 


fan af^rii -2 

"( 5 )" % Jr to «trfa? 


fafft :(l) 

STRUTT 1 


TOtT ^ tor, rjW fvpfatr, BTPTO fafaff 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 

PUBLIC NOTICE NO. 1—ITC(PN)/85~88 

New Delhi, the 12th April- 1985 

Subject ; Import and Export Policy for April 1985—March 
1988 

F. No. IPC/3/17/85:—The Import and Export Policy 
(Volume I). 1985—88 is contained in the Annexure to this 
Public Notice- 


2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


2. The following errata shall be deemed to have been made 
in the policy at appropriate places indicated below: 

- SI. Page No. of Reference Errata 

No. Import and 
Export 
Policy 
1985—88 

(Vol. 1) _______ 

12 3 4 

(1) 122 Appendix 2 After the existing entry No. 

Part B (107) the following entry 

shall be made 

“(107-A) Colour TV Picture 
tubes other than 
those mentioned in 
Appondix 6 List 8 
Part I.” 

(2) 290 Appendix 19 In the eleventh line, tho 

Para 17 sign “(4 )” shall be corrected 
Eleventh Line to read as “ (f) ”. 

(3) 325 Annexure II In the second line, the 

to word “(S)” shall bo corrected 

Appendix 21 to read as “(5)”, 

Note (1) 

P. C. TAIN, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

IMPORT & EXPORT POLICY FOR 
APRIL, 1985—MARCH, 1988 

CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION AND DEFINITIONS 
Introduction 

1(1). The Import and Export Policy for the period 
April, 1985—March, 1988 is being published in 
two Volumes. Vol. I contains the Imports and Export 
Promotion Policy, and Vol. II contains the Policy in 
respect of items under Export Licensing. The policy 
in this Book has been brought into effect under the 
Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 12th April, 
1985. 

(2) The Import and Export Policy is being 
announced this time for the three years’ period from 
the date of announcement till 31st March, 1988 in 
consonance with the Government’* objective of bring¬ 
ing in continuity and stability of Import and Export 
Promotion policies. However, the Government 
reserves the right to make amendments/changes in 
this policy which may become necessary in public 
interest from time to time during the above parted. 
Amendments etc., if any, will be notified, as usual, 
by means of public notices/amendment orders etc. 
issued by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 
from time to time. Provisions of this Policy Book 
are subject to such amendments or changes as and 
when notified. 

(3) Instructions and guidelines contained In this 
Book are applicable subject to such amendments/ 
changes as may be made from time to time. 


(4) Although thi« policy is for three years' period, 
the licensing will continue to be on annual basis and 
all entitlements worked out accordingly, as hitherto. 

(5) Wherever the word “year” or “licensing year" 
appears in this policy, they should be construed to 
mean "financial year” beginning from 1st April to 
31st March. 

2. The Hand Book of Import-Export Procedure*, 
1985—88 is a supplement to the Import and Export 
Policy and contains relevant procedures and other 
detail*. 

3. The Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 
empowers the Central Government to prohibit, 
restrict or otherwise control imports and exports. 

In exercise of the powers conferred by this Act, the 
Imports (Control) Order, 1955 has been issued. 
Schedule I to the said Order contains the list of arti¬ 
cles of which imports are controlled. The import of 
such items is prohibited except (i) under and in 
accordance with a licence or a customs clearance permit 
issued under the said Order, or (ii) if they are covered 
by an Open General Licence (subject to such condition* 
as may be stipulated), or (iii) if they are covered by 
the Savings Clause 11 of the Imports (Control) Order. 
Import of gold, silver, currency and currencv note#, 
bank notes and coins is controlled by the Reserve 
Bank of India, under the Foreign Exchange Regula¬ 
tions Act. 

4. The Exports (Control) Order, 1977 regulate# 
export of commodities subject to export licensing. 
Most of the items are de-con trolled and allowed freely. 

In respect of some items, the export is allowed subject 
to ceilings having regard to domestic requirements. 

5. Notwithstanding anything contained in thl< 
policy ot in the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce¬ 
dures, 1985—88, the Chief Controller of Imports *Dd 
Exports may, by issuing a public notice, evolve any 
special procedure for the grant of import licence# or 
export licences to any particular category of importers 
or exporters, or in respect of any particular commo¬ 
dity. In such cases, the provisions of the policy an# 
procedure as may be laid down, shall apply only re- 
the extent laid down in such public notice. 

6. With a view to facilitating easy reference, as 
effort has been made to consolidate the various provi¬ 
sions in distinct chapters of this Book which has a 
co-relation with the corresponding chapters and 
appendices in the Hand Book. This, however, will 
not preclude the applicability of other provisions in 
any other part of the Import and Export Policy 
1985—88 and/or the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures. 1985—88. 

Definition# 

7. For the purposes of this policy, the following 
words shall have the meanings attached to them :— 

(1) “Actual User” means a person, who applies 
for/secures a licence for the import of any item or 
an allotment of an imported item required for his own - 
use, and not for business or trade in it. Thus, in the 



Drrr I—w* 1] 


wrar ■ft TTviNj: arcrrti rh 


3 


case of an industrial undertaking, the item concerned 
shall be utilised for the manufacturing processes or 
operations conducted within its authorised premises 
(or made available to jobbing units or other units 
outside for intermediate processing only as part 
of such production effort). In the non-industrial cate¬ 
gory, such as hospitals, research and development 
units or aoy other institutions, commercial establish¬ 
ments and individuals, the concerned item shall be 
utilised for its/his own use, i.e., for the purpose for 
which the item was sought for import. 

(2) "Actual User Condition" shall be construed 
accordingly. 

(3) “Actual User (Industrial)” shall mean an 
industrial undertaking, be it in the large scale, small 
scale or cottage industries sector, engaged in the 
manufacture of any goods for which it holds a licence 
or Registration Certificate from the appropriate 
Government authority, wherever applicable. 

(4) “Actual User (Non-industrial)” means— 

(a) any commercial establishment which has 
. been registered ox holds a certificate for at- 

least 3 years under the local law applicable 
to Shops and Establishments generally and 
which carries on any business, trade or pro¬ 
fession, whether for the purpose of gain or 
not, but docs not include a shop, factory, 
residential hotel, restaurant or eating house; 
or 

(b) any establishment bolding a licence for at 
least 3 years under the local law relating 
to the exhibition of cinematographic films to 
the public at the authorised premises; or 

(c) any person who, not being an employee or 
wage earner, is himself engaged in any pro¬ 
fession or calling and has been assessed to 
income-tax as such; or 

(d) any laboratory, scientific or research and 
development institution, university or other 
educational institution or hospital; or 

(e) any service industry in existence and holds a 
licence for the purpose under the local law 
for at least three years; or 

(f) public sector (non-industrial) undertaking, 
not run departmental^; this will not include 
a residential hotel, restaurant or eating 
house; or 

(g) any local authority. 

(5) “Small Scale Industrial Undertaking” means 
all industrial units with a capital investment of not 
exceeding Rs. 35 lakhs irrespective of the number 
of persons employed. Capital investment for the 
purpose of this definition will be investment in fixed 
assets in plant and machinery, whether held on owner¬ 


ship term or by lease or by hire purchase. While 
calculating the value of plant and machinery the 
original price paid by the owner, irrespective of 
whether the plant and machinery are new or second¬ 
hand will be taken into account. Such a small scale 
iudustrial undertaking shall not be a subsidiary of or 
owned or controlled by another undertaking. 
Similarly ‘Ancillary industrial Undertakings’ having 
Investment in fixed assets in plant and machinery, 
whether held on ownership term or by lease or by hire 
purchase not exceeding Rs. 45 lakhs are exempted 
from the licensing provisions of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951, subject to 
the condition that such an undertaking shall not be 
a subsidiary of or owned or controlled by any other 
undertaking. Notification S.O. 202(E) dated March 
18, 1985 issued by Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs, Department of Industrial Development, and 
published in Part II Section 3 Sub-Section (ii) of 
Gazette of India Extra-ordinary of the same date 
read with PresB Note No. 9 (1985 series) issued on 
March 19, 1985 by the above Department may be 
referred to. 

NOTE:—wherever the term “Small Scale Unit” 
appears in this policy, it will mean “Small 
Scale Industrial Undertaking” as defined 
above. 

(6) “Registered Exporter” mean* a person holding 
a valid Registration Certificate issued by an Export 
Promotion Council, Commodity Board or other regia- 
tering authority designated by Government for the 
purposes of export promotion. 

(7) “Export House/Trading House” means a 
Registered Exporter holding a valid Export House/ 
Trading House Certificate issued by the Chief 
Controller of Import! and Exports, New Delhi. 

(8) “Capital Goods” means any plant, machinery, 
equipment or accessories required by an investor for 
production of goods or for rendering services, including 
those required for replacement or expansion. 

(9) “Computer systems” means all types of 
electronic data/information processing equipment, 
their peripheral equipment, their interface equipment, 
their data communication equipment, terminals, 
modems, electronic data collection and data prepara¬ 
tion equipment and connected on line control systems; 
it also covers all system software, application software 
and firmware to work on existing hardware or that 
proposed to be imported. 

(10) “Component” means one of the parts or 
sub-assemblies or assemblies of which a manufac¬ 
tured product is made up and into which it may be 
resolved and includes an accessory (or attachment). 

(11) “Spare” means a part or sub-assembly 
or assembly for substitution, i.e. ready to replace an 
identical similar part or sub-assembly or assembly, if 
it becomes faulty or worn out, and includes an 
accessory (or attachment) in the same regard. 



4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


(12) “Consumable” means any item which partici¬ 
pates or is required in a manufacturing process; but 
does not form part of the end-product. 

(13) “Consumer goods" for the purpose of import 
policy, will mean consumption goods which can 
directly satisfy human needs without further 
processing; it would include consumer durables also. 

(14) “Accessory” (or “attachment”) means a part, 
subassembly or assembly that contributes to the 
effectiveness of a piece of equipment without changing 
its basic functions. 

(15) “Part” means an element of a sub-assembly or 
assembly, hot normally useful by itself and not 
amenable to further disassembly to: maintenance 
purposes. (It could be a component, spare or 
accessory—depending upon the nature of it* use/ 
requirement). 

(16) A reference to “single item”, wherever it 
appears in this policy shall mean : An item will count 
as one even if it may be used in various sizes and 
specification e.g. ball and roller bearings, etc. will be 
treated as a single item. Secondly, the value Limit 
for a single item, wherever referred to in this policy, 
would apply to :— 

(a) a single entry wherever there is no sub- 
classificatioa thereunder; 

(b) a Bub-classified item havjjjg its own sub¬ 
entry number; 

(c) a group of items of the same nature having 
descriptive heading under the same entry/ 
sub-entry number; and 

(d) the totality of electronic items included 
under entry No. 607 in Appendix 3 Part-A. 


CHAPTER II 

GENERAL LICENSING MATTERS 
Code Numbers lor Importers 

8. Every person importing goods, whether against 
a Licence or under O.G.L., shall be required to ob¬ 
tain Code Number from the licensing authority 
concerned. With effect from 1st July, 1982, it was 
stipulated that the Customs Authorities shall not 
allow clearance of goods to an importer who does not 
possess a valid “Importer Code Number (ICN)”. 
The details of the scheme are given in Chapter II of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985—88. 

l icensing Authorities and their Jurisdiction 

9. The names and areas of jurisdiction of the 
various licensing authorities under the Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports are given in Appendix II-B 
of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985—88. 


Last date(s) (or filing Application* 

10(1). The last date for receipt of applications, 
by the concerned sponsoring authorities, from Actual 
Users (Industrial as well a* Non-Industrial), for 
Supplementary Licences, shall be 15th December of 
the licensing year ro which the application pertains. 
Further, the last date Cor receipt of these applications 
for Supplementary licences, by the concerned licensing 
authority, duly recommended by the sponsoring 
authority, shall be 31st January of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains. However, in the 
ease of new/proposed units, the last dale for receipt 
of applications for Supplementary licences, by the 
concerned licensing authority, duly recommended by 
the respective sponsoring authorities, ulisll. be the 
Iasi day of February of the licensing year to which 
the application pertain*. 

(2) There will be no last date, within the licensing 
period concerned, for submission of applications for : 
(i) Import Replenishment licences including Advance/ 
Special Imprest/ Imprest iicences/Pass Book under the 
import policy for Registered Exporters; (ii) import of 
goods under the Empowered Committee procedure, 
vide para 40 of this Book; (iii) licences under para 
127(15) appearing in Chapter-VIl of this Book; 
(iv) import by individuals of articles meant for their 
personal use; and (v) Emergency licences for spares. 

(3) The last date for receipt of all other import 
applications, by the concerned licensing authority, 
shall be thr last day of February of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains, unlesB any specific 
date is indicated to the contrary 

(4) Applications received after the prescribed last 
date(s) indicated in sub-paras (1) and (3) above, 
shall be rejected and no refund of fees is permissible 
in such cases. 

I.V.C. Declaration 

11(1). Every application for an import licence 
shall be accompanied by a declaration (in duplicate) 
regarding tbe filing of the Income Tax Returns and 
payment of taxes due by the applicant, in the form 
given in Appendix 11-0 of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985—88. Attention is particu¬ 
larly drawn to the fact that the declaration is in 
two parts, (A) and (B), and the applicant should 
ensure that the part not applicable to him is clearly 
struck off. 

(2) Production of IVC declaration has been ex¬ 
empted in some cases (Please sec para 52 of the 
Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88). 

Applicatloa Fees 

12. The scale of fees payable for different types ol 
licences is given in the Schedule III to the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955, appearing as Appendix I 
Part-B of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985-—88. The procedure for deposit of the fee (* 
also given in Appendix lf-C of the Hand Book. Every 
application for an import licence shall, unless it la ao 
exempted, be accompanied by the Bank Receipt or 



[*TFT I —m 1] 


*nxa ipr wr*: wrarOT 


5 




Draft, as applicable, for the payment of the prescribed 

fee. 

Conditions o( Import Licences 

13. Every import licence issued under this policj 
shall be deemed to have been issued subject to the 
conditions (applicable thereto) as laid down in the 
Imports (Control) Order, 1955, as amended. These 
conditions apply to licences in addition to any other 
conditions imposed on the licence itself. 

Export Obligation 

14(1). Government may require any industry oi 
an industrial uudertaking or other establishment, using 
imported machinery or inputs to show a given export 
performance over a period of time. Failure to dis¬ 
charge such obligation will render it liable to penal 
action under law besides the denial of further licences. 

(2) Where a manufacturer, who is under export 
obligation, as per sub-para (1) above, exports his 
products through another exporter, such exports may 
be taken into account for the discharge of export 
obligation of the manufacturer concerned, provider? 
the following conditions are satisfied 

(i) There is an acceptable documentary evidence 
to show that the goods exported had been 
manufactured by the manufacturer who is 
under export obligation; 

(ii) The name of the manufacturer of the goods 
exported appears in all or any of the export 
documents; 

(iii) The manufacturer of the goods exported pro¬ 
duces “no objection" certificate (disclaimer) 
from the other party whose name also 
appears in all or any of the export docu¬ 
ments; and 

(iv) The other party referred to in (iii) above 
gives a declaration to the effect that it shall 
not utilise the same exports to discharge its 
own export obligation, if any. 

NOTE :—The export obligation, referred to in sub¬ 
para (1) above, does not relate to export 
obligation under import licences having 
export obligation such a* Advance licence, 
Special Imprest licence, Imprest Licence, 
Import-Export Pass. Book, and c-xpon 
obligation in terms of approval for setting 
up 100% export oriented unit* 

Import under OGL or exempt from ITC restriction* 

15. Certain items can be imported under Open 
General Licence by eligible categories of importer*. 
Import of certain items is also exempt from the Im¬ 
port Trade Control restriction, in accordance with 
the Imports (Control) Order, 1955. At the time of 
effecting the permissible remittance towards payment 
of goods, for import against a specific licence or 


under OGL or under the said exemption provisions, 
the importer shall fill in Form A.l appearing in the 
Appendix 11I-J of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88. 

Modes of Financing 

16(1). Licences granted under the-policy for Regis¬ 
tered Exporters will be issued for import against free 
foreign exchange, 

(2) import licences for raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares to small scale industrial units, 
including cottage industry units will be issued for im¬ 
port against free forcigu exchange. 

(3) Import licences for raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares to large scale industrial units 
will also be issued for import against free foreign ex¬ 
change. However, in such cases, at the time of effect¬ 
ing remittances towards payment for the goods, the 
importer shall fill in Form A.l appearing in 
Appendix III-J of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88. The importer will not be 
separately required again to fill in Form ‘A’ pres¬ 
cribed in Section IV, para 9 of the Exchange Control 
Manual issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 

(4) Applications for import licences for substantial 
values of plant and machinery which are required for 
the setting up of new projects or substantial expansion, 
will be considered against one or more of the accept¬ 
able means of financing- Details are given in Chap¬ 
ter III of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985—88. 

Validity of Import licences 

17. Import licences granted to the Actual Users 
for raw materials, components, consumables and spares 
will be valid for 18 months. Similarly, /validity of 
licences issued under the Registered Exporters policy 
will be 18 months. Import licences for Capital Good* 
will, however, be valid for 24 months. import 
licences for emergency spares will he valid ouly for 
one year. The detailed provisions in thii regard are 
given in Chapter II of th e Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985-—88. 

Compliance with other law* 

18. Tt is implied that every applicant for an im¬ 
port licence has complied with and continues to comply 
with the provisions of all other laws applicable to him¬ 
self or any other person on whose behalf he submit* 
an application. The grant of an import licence does 
not also confer any immunity, exemption or relaxation 
at any time from an obligation or compliance with 
any requirements to which the licence holder may be 
subject to under other laws or regulations. This would 
apply also to materials allotted directly by the 
canalising agencies under the policy, as also to the 
imports made under the Open General Licence, with 
or without an A.U. condition attached thereto. 



6 


[PARr 1 —Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


Suggestions lor Change in the Item-wise Policy 

19. Any suggestions for change in the item-wise 
import policy should be addressed to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports and Exports, (Import Policy Cell), 
Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi, with a copy to the tech¬ 
nical authorities concerned, with full justification for 
the change sought to be made. The information in 
the proforma given in Appendix 1I-L of the Hand 
Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985—88 should 
also be sent therewith. 

Clarification and Interpretation of the Policy 

20(1). As defined in para 7(15), a “part” could 
be a component, a spare or an accessory, depending 
upon the nature of its use/requirement. This word 
appears accordingly in the connected definitions of 
components, spares and accessories. 

(2) Components would be required under the 
Im port. Policy only by Actual Users (Industrial) 
manufacturing the relevant end-products. No such 
stipulation applies to spares and accessories. 

(3) Actual Users (Industrial) would require spares 
for operating and maintaining their production assets, 
i.e., their ‘captive’ needs. For fulfilling any after¬ 
sales/warranty obligations to their customers, they 
may require spares for a suitable period alter the 
sales. Relevant provisions have been made to meei 
these requirements separately. 

L 

(4) In the case of accessories, the requirements 
of Actual Users (Industrial) would be covered by the 
supplementary licensing procedure, as components, it 
these are to be fitted to the products currently under 
manufacture. But, rt (complete) accessories are re¬ 
quired lor the better utilisation of equipment already 
sold, the import would have to be made by the user 
concerned under the relevant procedure/provisions ap¬ 
plicable—uttfess this is covered by after-sales/ 
warranty obligations. However, in appropriate cases, 
ad hoc licences may be granted to the manufacturer 
of the main equipment item to which the accessory 
is intended to be a fitment. 

(5) Items in Appendices 2 Part B and 3 Part-A do 
not refer to spares as such; but some entries there¬ 
in relate to components, consumables, sub-assemblies 
or modules. Where an item does not appear 
individually (elsewhere) in these Appendices, i.e., in 
its own name, it could be imported as a spare (under 
Chapter VI) by the eligible Actual User. 

(6) The definition of “Consumer Goods” has been 
incorporated in Chapter T, for the purpose of import 
policy only. This definition is illustrative and not 
exhaustive. It will be left to the customs authorities 
to identity the goods, which, in their judgement, could 
be appropriately classified as “Consumer Goods”. 

(7) The definition of “consumables" does not 
refer to ‘parts’. It is difficult to identify all con¬ 
sumables, as their consumption would vary from unit 
to unit, depending upon the machinery in use, the 


process involved, the raw materials used, production 
pattern, product specifications, etc. 

(8) Items appearing in appendices refer to finished 
items; in all such cases, the relevant policy would 
apply to semi-finished material as well. In a few cases, 
however, the entry specifically refers to rough or proof- 
machined material; this would include semi-finished 
items as well. 

21. The following principles will apply to the 
inter-se interpretation of the entries in the various 
Appendices as well as imports under Open General 
Licence :— 

(a) any item in Appendix 2 Part-A will prevail 
over any item anywhere in this Book; 

(b) any item in Appendix 5 will prevail over 
any item in Appendices 2 Part-B and 3; 

(c) an item with a specific description in 
Appendix 2 ParC-B or 3 Part-A will prevail 
over an item with a generic description in 
any of these Appendices ; 

(d) an item with a generic description in 
Appendix 2 Part-B will pievail over an item 
with a generic description in Appendix 3 
Part-A; 

(e) the same principles as in (c) and (d) above 
will apply to the iron and steel items in 
Appendices 2 Part B and 3 Part-B; 

(f) any item in Appendices 2, 3, 5 or 8 with a 
specific or a generic description, will pre¬ 
clude the eligibility to its import under 
Open General Licence, except where the 
policy allows this clearly. 

22(1). References to pigments and dyestuffs in 
Appendix 3 Part-A will apply equally to materials 
having the same colour indices as stated therein to 
different manufacturers. 

(2) Reference to “industrial yarn”, will, wherever 
appropriate, include “guts” as well. 

(3) In the case of electronic components, the 
relevant entries in Appendix 3 Part-A set out inter¬ 
nationally accepted specifications and would include 
all such items of different manufacturers, 

(4) In the case of drugs appearing in Appendices 
2 Part-B, 3 Part-A and 5, the names mentioned 
are as they are commonly known, and each entry in¬ 
cludes the salts, esters and complexes of the same drug, 
as well as its active ingredients. 

(5) In the case of Automotive components/ancil- 
Iaries those having non-automotive application as 
well, would be covered by the respective entries. 

23(1). Clarification regarding technical specification/ 
siz e etc., of any iron and steel item in Appendices 
2 Part B and 3 Part B may be had from the Depart- 



[irw I—w 1] 


nn Tpprat : wrmn 


7 


ment of Steel, New Delhi as set out in paragraph 103. 
This would include queries as to whether material 
required by an A.U. (Industrial) is melting scrap or 
not. 

(2) The following points are to be carefully noted 
while interpreting the specifications, terminologies, 
scope, etc. of iron, steel and ferro alloy items appear¬ 
ing under the Appendices 2 Parf-B, 3 Part-B, and 
5 Part-A for the purpose of permissibility for import 
or otherwise of the various items mentioned in these 
appendices :— 


(iv) The terminology 'Carbon Steel’ is used to 
indicate that it is not an alloy steel for 
purpose of interpretation of this policy. 
Very low carbon steels with very low con¬ 
tents of manganese and silicon etc. and 
marketed under various trade/commercial 
nomenclatures like ‘iron sheets’, ‘iron wires’ 
etc. are all to be considered as covered 
under the description ‘carbon steel’ appear¬ 
ing in the Appendices 2 Part-B, 3 Part-B 
and 5 Part-A. (This would also include 
what is known in commercial parlance as 
mild steel). 


(i) The terminology and definition of iron,, 
steel and ferro alloy items are to be con¬ 
sidered in accordance with those appear¬ 
ing in the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 amend¬ 
ed from time to time except in such of the 
cases where special interpretations are issu¬ 
ed hereunder. 

(ii) The items appearing in the Appendices 
2 Part-B, 3 Part-B and 5 Part-A do not 
cover bright bars/bars in cold finished con¬ 
ditions like cold drawn, pealed, machined, 
turned, ground polished, etc., unless speci¬ 
fically mentioned as for example in the case 
of High Speed Steel Rounds etc. Such items 
are not under the purview of Department of 
Steel and policy indicated in other Appen¬ 
dices may be consulted for such items. 


(v) The terminology ‘Stainless Steel/Heat Re¬ 
sisting Steel’ is used to cover the large field 
of stainless/heat resisting/corrosion resist¬ 
ing/creep steels etc. Any alloy with iron 
less than 50% is not treated as iron and 
steel item for the purpose of this Chapter 
and connected schedules. Any steel con¬ 
taining 12% or more chromium with or 
without other alloying elements, will be 
covered under the description stainless/heat 
resisting steel. An exception to this is 
tool/die steel with about 12% chromium 
and about 2% carbon. This would be 
covered under the general classification for 
alloy steels. 

(vi) Re-rollable scrap would mean 


(iii) The following items are also not under the 
purview of Depft. of Steel and hence not 
covered in Appendices 2 Part-B, 3 Part-B, 
and 5 Part-A unless otherwise specified, in 
which case, the policy indicated in other 
Appendices may be consulted for such 
items : 

(a) Cold formed sections from plates/ 
sbeets/strips/coils. 

(b) Hot exlmded/cold extruded sections, 

(c) Insulated wires, 

(d) Iron/Steel items with iron content less 
than 50 per cent by weight. 

(e) Cladded items where the base iron/ 
.Steel constitutes less than 50 per cent by 
weight of the total composite material. 

(f) Iron/Steel powders, 

Note : For the above-mentioned items, the 
intending importers should get clarifications 
from DGTD as to the policy applicable to 
them, before making imports or applying 
for licences. It is. clarified that these items 
should not be taken as being covered under 
OGL. 


(1) All seconds/second 1 

grade defectives/ f with length—1800 mm max., 
cutting of semis/ > width—600 mm max , 
bars/rail/structurals. I thickness 5 mm and above. 

(2) Plato cuttings. j 

(3) Used rails/structurats. 

(vii) Classification as Alloy Steels is done on the 
basis of the following : 

(a) Where the elements are defined by a 
range or by a minimum value, the 
minimum value of that range or the 
minimum specified shall determine whether 
it is an alloy steel or not. 

(b) Where the elements are defined only 
by maximum values 70 per cent of 
these maximum values shall determine 
whether it is an alloy steel or not. 


(viii) For the purpose of this import policy, staii>* 
less/heat resisting steel melting scrap means 
such scrap with the following dimensions :— 

Length 153 mm max. (6") 

Width 102 mm max. (4") 

Thickness 6.5 mm max. (i") 



8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


Cliromium content between 18 to 20% 
Nickel Content 10.5% max. 


(ix) Plates/sheets 

Plates and sheets, wherever mentioned, would 
mean in cut lengths only. ‘Coils’ would 
cover the plates/sh?ets (as the case may be) 
in the coil form also. 

(x) StrtpM 

Strips, wherever mentioned, would mean 
both cut lengths and colls. 

(xi) All items of iron and steel to be imported 
under the policy including REP should be 
of Prime quality only unless specifically 
mentioned otherwise against any item 
appearing in the appendices, such as, 
“scrap” or defectives”, and the like are 
permitted for import against specific entries. 

(xii) For classification as high speed steels, only 
those compositions listed in IS specifica¬ 
tion would be considered - as high speed 
steels. 

NOTE : Definitions and classifications furnished above 
are meant for determining the class to 
which a particular steel belongs and the 
clause/sub-clause of a specific entry in a 
schedule it falls under, for the sole purpose 
of this import policy. 

(3) In respect of items other than iron and steel, 
an Actual User i.e., any person desirous of importing 
*n item subject to Actual User condition, may seek 
clarification from the DGTD (Import and Export 
Policy Cell), Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi-110011 
•bout :— 

(i) the scope of any Item in Appendices 1, 2, 3 
Part-A, 5, 6, 8 and 10; 

(ii) the technical specification/size etc. covered 
by any such item; 

(Hi) any doubt whether a particular item requir¬ 
ed by him is a raw material, component, 
consumable, spare or capital goods or a con¬ 
sumer item banned for import. 

(4) An Actual User may seek clarification in respect 
of electronic items from the Department of Electronics, 
Lok Nayak Bhawan, New Delhi. 

(5) Particulars of item, in respect of which clari¬ 
fication is sought, should be given in the proforma 


given in Appendix II-K of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, fy85—88. 

Note.—(a) The DGTD will liaise with other Minim- 
tries concerned and provide the necessary 
clarification to the Actual Users. , 

(b) Particulars of the items for which clari- 
tieation is sought, supplemented by technical 
uteraLure, it any, may De provided to me 
D.G.T.D. to assist expeditious clarification 
being given. 

(6) This Import and Export Policy being for 
the three years’ period April 1985—March 1988, 
has made it necessary to use terminologies like ‘the 
licensing year’; the ‘current licensing year’, ‘the pre¬ 
ceding licensing year’ and so on. As already men¬ 
tioned in Chapter I, the licensing will continue to be 
on annual basis and that the “year” or “licensing 
year” should be construed to mean financial year 
beginning from 1st April to 31st March. Accord¬ 
ingly reference to preceding licensing year, during the 
licensing year 1985-86, 1986-87 and 1987-88 should 
be construed to mean 1984-85, 1985-86 and 

1986-87 respectively and reference to next or follow¬ 
ing year should be construed to mean 1986-87, 
or 1987-88 or 1988-89 as the case may be. 

24. Actual Users may also seek clarification on 
any item-wise entry applicable to them, from the 
regional licensing authorities at Bombay, Madras 
and Calcutta, who will secure technical advice in the 
matter. 

25(1). In all other matters relating to Actual 
Users’, and enquiries emanating from other persons, 
i.e. Export Houses, selling agents, traders, etc., as well 
as the interpretation of the policy proper and the pro¬ 
cedure, the persons concerned may address the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi for 
necessary advice. Normally, clarification should be 
issued within a period of 15 days by the CCI&E, 
New Delhi and Jt. CCI&E at Bombay, Calcutta and 
Madras, where no inter-departmental consultation is 
required. D.G.T.D. and Department of Steel should 
also issue clarification normally within a period of 
15 days. Where complete details are not furnished 
in the prescribed proforma, request for clarification 
will be rejected. Any interpretation of the Import 
Policy given in any other manner or by any other 
person will not be binding on the CCI&E, or in 
law. In the case of Actual Users also, if a clarifica¬ 
tion issued by any other authority ? s different from 
that issued by the CCT&E, the latter will prevail. 

(2) Notwithstanding what has been stated in sub- 
rtara (1) above, any interpretation of Import-Export 
PoUcy or procedure given bv the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports, New Delhi will prevail over 
any other clarification in the same matter given by any 
other authority or person. 



[*rurl—«ix 1 ] 


»rrm ! rr *,nnrw: sraiEnm 


9 


Validity of Import! 

26. Import is valid if it fulfils, among other things, 
the following conditions :— 

(i) It is covered by a licence/Open General 
L^ence/Customs Clearance Permit. 

(ii) The description, value and the quantity of 
the imported goods are in accordance with 
the licence/Open General Licencc/Customs 
Clearance Permit, 

(iii) The shipment/despatch of the goods front 
the supplying country takes place within 
the validity period of the licence/Open 
General Licence/customs clearance permit. 

(iv) The terms and conditions contained in the 
licence/Open General Licence/customs clea¬ 
rance permit and the Import-Export Policy 
and Procedures in regard to the item(s) of 
the import and all other connected matters 
are fulfilled. 

Imports not covered by licences 

27. (1) If any article, requiring a licence (including 
Customs Clearance Permit), is imported or sought 
to be cleared without a valid licence, the importer/ 
owner of the goods will be liable to appropriate 
action under the provisions of the Imports & Exports 
(Control) Act, 1947 and the Orders issued there¬ 
under without prejudice to any action that may be 
taken in this behalf under the Customs Act, 1962. 

(2) As in the matters relating to import-export 
policy and procedures the interpretation given by 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports is final, 
in case of doubt regarding these matters, the customs 
authorities should consult the Import Trade Control 
authorities before clearance of the goods. 

Appeal and Review 

28. Provisions relating to Appeal/Review under the 
Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947 or the Im¬ 
port/Export (Control) Order are given in Chapter II 
of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
j 985—88. 

Transitional Arrangements 

29(1). Applications from actual users for grant 
of automatic licences, which have not been disposed 
of by 11-4-85, will be decided as under : — 

(a) Applications for items which were in the 
Automatic Permissible List in the policy 
for 1984-85 but shifted to Open General 
5S GI/85—2, 


Licence Lilt (Appendix 6) in the current 
Import & Export Policy will not be consi¬ 
dered ; 

(b) Applications for items, which were in the 
Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984-85 but shifted to 
Limited Permissible List (Appendix 3) or 
Restricted List (Appendix 2 Part B) of the 
current Import & Export Policy, will be 
considered on the recommendation of the 
sponsoring authority as per Supplementary 
Licensing procedure. 

(2) The facility of ‘repeat-operation of Automatic 
licences for import of raw materials, components and 
consumables which was available for the licensing 
period 1984-85 or earlier or the facility of obtaining 
Automatic Licence on repeat basis, as was provided 
in paras 33-34 of Import 6i Export Policy for 1984-85, 
will not be available under this policy. 

30. Applications from actual users for the grant 
of supplementary licences, which have not been dis¬ 
posed of by 11-4-85, will be decided as per current 
policy without making a back reference to the spon¬ 
soring authorities concerned. However, applications 
for items in Automatic permissible List will be decided 
as under :— 

(a) Applications for items which were in the 
Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984-85 but shifted to 
Open General Licence List (Appendix 6) 
in the current Import & Export Policy will 
not b# considered; 

(b) Applications for items, which were in the 
Automatic Permissible List in the Import 
& Export Policy for 1984-85 but shifted to 
Limited Permissible List (Appendix 3) or 
Restricted List (Appendix 2 Part B) in the 
current Import & Export Policy will be con¬ 
sidered as per policy. In such case«, the 
items to be allowed will be those as are 
admissible under the policy in force at the 
time of issue of licence. 

31. (i) Actual Users, who had registered their 
demands with the canalising agencies concerned upto 
31st March of the preceding licensing year in respect 
of items which were canalised earlier but have been 
taken out of the list of canalised items in this policy, 
will not be allowed to cancel their indents except with 
the written consent of the canalising agency. 

(ii) Ho Release Order will be converted into 
a direct import licence without the written consent 
of the canalising agency concerned and the approval 



10 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


of the Chief Controller of Import* and Export*, Nev- 
Delhi 

32. REP applications which have not been disposed 
of by 31st March of the preceding licensing year 
against which the licence is issued on or after 
1st April of licensing year the rate of import replenish¬ 
ment will be as admissible on ihe date of export but 
the items of import will be as permissible under the 
Import-Export Policy, for the licensing year. This will 
not, however, apply to cases in which the relevant 
export contracts were registered in accordance with 
appropriate procedure. The exports made against 
registered contracts will be governed by the provisions 
of Appendix 20 of this policy. 

33. REP licences issued during the preceding licens¬ 
ing year will also be valid, within their over-all value, 
for the impoit of items permitted in the Statement of 
Import Policy for Registered Exporters in Appen¬ 
dix 17 of this policy, subject to the value restrictions, 
if any, applicable thereto, in cases where the REP 
licence, in question, relates to the export products 
cotrespondnig to the same items in Appendix 17, pro¬ 
vided the item to be imported i9 not already covered 
by the licence or it is subject to a value limit in the 
licence which is more restrictive than the limit permis¬ 
sible for import in this Import-Export Policy. 

34. Applications from Export Houses/Trading 
Houses for Additional licences which have not been 
disposed of by 31st March of the preceding licensing 
year against which the licence is issued on or after 
1st April of licensing year, the rate of entitlement will 
be the same as permissible during the licensing period 
to which the application pertains, but the items to be 
allowed will be as permissible in the Import-Export 
Policy for the licensing year. 

35(1). REP licences and Additional licences held 
by Export Houses/Trading House* will cease to be 
valid for import of any item which could be imported 
under Open General Licence during the preceding 
licensing year or earlier but is no longer io in this 
Import-Export Policy. 

(2) Additional licences issued to Export House!/ 
Trading Houses during the preceding licensing year 
will also be valid within their over-all \aluc, for import 
of raw materials, components, consumables and 
spares which can be imported under Open General 
Licence by Actual Users (Industrial) under the Im¬ 
port-Export Policy, for the licensing year. This 
facility will also be available to Export Houses and 
Trading Houses holding REP licence! which were 


[Part I—Sec.. 1] 


endor»ed during tBe preceding licentiog ye*i for unpoti 
of OGL item*. 

(3) Additional licence* issued to Export House*/ 
Trading Houses in the preceding licensing year or 
earlier shall cease to be valid for import of items of 
spares appearing in Appendices 2, 3, 5 Part A, 8 and 
10 of the Import & Export Policy for the licensing 
year. These restrictions will not apply to the extent 
the licence holders have made firm commitments by 
irrevocable letters of credit opened and established 
through authorised dealers in foreign exchange before 
1st April, 1985, but any extensions to these letter* 
of credit made after 31st March, 1985, shall be 
treated as fresh commitments. 

(4) Additional licences issued to Export Houses/ 
Trading Houses during the preceding licensing year 
or earlier will also be valid for import of items of 
spares which are permissible for import against 
Additional licences issued during the licensing year. 

36. Automatic licences issued to Actual Users 
(Industrial) during 1984-85 or earlier will continue 
to remain valid, within their validity period, for im¬ 
port of items for which those licences were issued 
lubject to the conditions laid down. 

Relaxation of Policy 

37. Cases for relaxation of the'existing policy/pro 
cedure where it creates genuine hardship or where a 
strict application of the existing policy is likely to 
affect exports adversely, may be considered by the 
Government, or by any other person authorised in 
this behalf. 


CHAPTER Ill 
CAPITAL GOODS 

Genera] Provision* 

38(1). Appendix I Part-A gives the list of Capital 
Goods which are restricted for import, 

(2) Capital Good* listed in Appendix t Ps.t-E 
can be imported by eligible Actual Users under Open 
General Licence, subject to the condition* applicable 
thereto. 



^ Kef ^TT 7T 


11 


[«n’T 1— Tf 1 ] 


(J ) Am Actual Umi may apply to the concerned 
licensing authority for the import of any other Capital 
Goods which he requires, in the manner and form 
laid down in Chapter HI of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985—88. 

Import of Capital Goods by AU (Industrial) 

Import of machinery by Industrial units using 
mainly Indigenous machinery 

39. (1) Actual Users (Industrial), who intend to 
set up new capacity (or an expansion of the existing 
capacity) may be allowed to import Capital Goods 
upto c.i.f. value equal to 10% of the purchase price 
of Capital Goods procured or proposed to be 
procured from indigenous sources, provided the 
import does not exced Rs. 1 crore in value (c.i.f.). 
Import applications will be considered without 
essentiality certificate of the sponsoring authority and 
without indigenous clearance or the need for an 
advertisement of the Capital Goods sought to be im¬ 
ported. In case where machinery is proposed to be 
procured from indigenous sources, documentary 
evidence of firm order placed on the indigenous 
supplier or letter of credit opened in their favour, may 
be produced. Import of restricted or second hand 
items of Capital Good shall not, however, be allowed. 

(2) Actual Users (Industrial) intending to make 
use of this facility should submit their import appli¬ 
cations direct to the licensing authority concerned in 
the prescribed form and manner. The licensing au¬ 
thority in the case of small-scale industrial units will 
be the regional licensing authority concerned. Large 
scale industrial units should apply to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, irrespec¬ 
tive of the value of Capital Goods to be imported. 

(3) This facility will not be available In those cases 
where the Industrial licence or Registration Certifi¬ 
cate stipulates that no imported machinery shall be 
allowed to the units concerned. 

Import of Capital Goods against global tenders 

40. (l)In the case of Capital Goods for the 
following industries/projects, applicants will be per¬ 
mitted to call global tenders, irrespective of whether 
some of these are manuafctuied indigenously or 
not:— 

(1) Fertilizer*. 

(2) Newsprint and paper. 

(3) Bask drugs 


(4) Basic technical material for pesticides and 
weedicides. 

(5) Power generation, transmission and distri¬ 
bution. 

(6) Mineral exploration, mining and benefi¬ 
cation. 

(7) Petroleum exploration and production. 

(8) Petrochemicals upto the stage of polymers. 

(9) Manufacture of professional grade electro¬ 
nics components. 

(10) Waste disposal recycling and effluent treat¬ 
ment projects and ecological engineering. 

(11) Materials handling projects at ports. 

(12) Sugar. 

(13) Cement and cement products (Including 
asbestos). 

The selection of suppliers on the basis of such 
global tenders, foreign or Indian, will be subject to 
scrutiny by a Commitee set up in the Department of 
Heavy Industry. Regard will be had to the provisions 
of Chapter III of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88 relating to electronic items ex¬ 
ceeding Rs. 5 lakhs in value. Comparison will be 
made between Indian offers (competitive) and foreign 
offers on the basis of the landed cost of the latter, 
i.e., c.i.f. cost plus import duty as applicable. Success¬ 
ful Indian suppliers will be permitted to import raw 
materials and components (and not consumables) 
without any restriction from indigenous availability 
angle (including items on O.G.L. or included in any 
other appendix of this policy) for undertaking th* 
manufacture of such Capital Goods. The rate of 
duty on such project imports would not exceed the 
rate of duty leviable on the concerned Capital Goods. 

(2) Under this provision import licences for raw 
materials and components may be issued to the manu¬ 
facturers or end—users of Capital Goods (instead of 
manufacturers) so that the end-users can havg the 
Capital Goods manufactured from any authorised 
manufacturer. 

Import of Instruments 

41, (1) Import of Instruments (other than those 
appearing in App. 8) required by Actual Users, as 
‘spares’, will be governed by the same policy as 
applicable to the import of ‘Restricted’ spares laid 




12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


down m Uiapici VJ. read with Appendix iu. A ru. 
last date for receipt of applications by the concerned 
licensing authority, shall be 31st October of the 
licensing year to which the application pertains. How¬ 
ever, in cases where the supplementary licensing pro¬ 
cedure is required to be followed in terms of the 
provisions of Chapter VI, the last date (s) for receipt 
of applications by the sponsoring authority and the 
licensing authority respectively shall be the same as 
laid down in para 10(1) of this Book. 

(2) Import of instruments (including those 
appearing in Appendix 8), required by Actual users 
(Industrial) as components will be allowed only on 
the recommendation of the sponsoring authority con¬ 
cerned under the system of Supplementary licences 
under para 82. The last date for receipt of appli¬ 
cations by the Sponsoring authority and the licensing 
authority respectively shall be the same as laid down 
in para 10 (1) of this Book. 

(3) Import of instruments appearing in Appen¬ 
dix 8, except when those are required as components 
by Actual Users (Industrial), will be governed by 
the following policy - 

(a) Items appearing in Part A of Appendix 8 
will not be allowed for import; 

(b) Items appearing in Part B of Appendix 8 
will be allowed for import to Actual Users 
(Industrial) upto a limit of i% of the 
value of Capital Goods installed or in use 
by them as on 1st April of the licensing 
year or Rs. 1,000 whichever is higher, 
subject to the condition that not more than 
10 Nos. of each item would be allowed for 
import and the total value of such instru¬ 
ments permitted for import shall not 
exceed Rs. 2 lakhs in the licensing period. 
Applications for import of these instru¬ 
ments should be made in the form and 
manner prescribed for import of ‘restricted’ 
spares. The last dat e for receipt of appli¬ 
cations by the concerned licensing authority, 
shall be 31st October of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains. Appli¬ 
cations fo r additional requirements, if any, 
of these instruments may be considered od 
the recommendation of the sponsoring 
authority concerned after obtaining clea¬ 
rance from the DGTD (Import and Export 
Policy Cell). The last date for receipt of 
applications by the concerned sponsoring 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 

duinoruics, tiom the /venial Usci* tlndut- 
trial) shall be 15th December of the licens¬ 
ing year to which the application pertains. 
Further, the last date for receipt of appli¬ 
cations, by the concerned licensing autho¬ 
rity, duly recommended by the sponsoring 
authority, shall be 31st January of the year 
to which the application pertains. 

(4) Applications for import of instruments in 
cases not covered by sub-paras (1), (2) and (3) 
above will be considered, on merits, on par with the 
policy and procedure applicable tQ Capital Goods. 

Import of Jigs, fixtures, moulds and press tools 

42. Actual Users (Industrial) can import jigs, 
fixtures, dies and patterns, moulds (including moulds 
for die casting), and Press tools and parts thereof 
under Open General Licence subject to the conditions 
applicable thereto. T hi s facility shall not be available 
for the import of items appearing in Appendix 1 
Part-A, Appendix 2 and Appendix 3 Part-A. 

Import ot prototypes/samplca 

43 (A) (1) Applications for Import of proto¬ 
types/samples will be considered on a liberal basis. 
Ordinarily not more than two numbers will be allowed 
on each licence. Applications can be made by Actual 
Users (Industrial) already engaged in production of 
the item whose proto-typc/sample is sought for im¬ 
port for product development or whose schemes for 
such production have been approved by appropriate 
Government authority. 

(2) Small scale units which exported at least 25 
per cent of their production of select products in any 
of the two previous financial years, subject to a mini¬ 
mum of Rs. 5.0 lakhs (f.o.b.) or which exported 
select products of at least Rs. 1.0 crore in f.o.b. value 
during any of the two previous financial years will 
be allowed import of prototype upto Rs. 1.0 lakh in 
value not exceeding two in number automatically by 
the regional licensing authority concerned, without 
the recommendation of the sponsoring authority. 

(3) Applications for import of proto-type/sample 
may also be considered from Actual Users (Industrial) 
on the recommendation of the sponsoring authority 
concerned and in consultation with the DGTD, in 
cases where the applicant is neither engaged in pro¬ 
duction of the concerned item nor his scheme for such 
production has been approved by Government. 



^FTT TT : 3THTOTT°T 


13 


[»n»r I—Jsrt 1 ] 

(4) Where the value exceeds Rupees one lakh, the 
above applications should be made to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi in the 
form and manner applicable to Capital Goods. Where 
it is Rupees one lakh or less, applications may be 
made to the regional licensing authorities, In all 
cases, the applications should be made through the 
sponsoring authorities. 

Import ol technical snmple.|proto-typcs against Aetna! 
Users Licences 

(B) Requests for import of chemicals and other 
materials to be used as technical samples/proto-types 
will be considered by the regional licensing authorities 
concerned on the recommendation of the sponsoring 
authority, upto Rs. 10,000 in value against the Actual 
User licences for import of raw materials and com¬ 
ponents, by specific endorsement made thereon, if 
required. 

Import of Samples under OGL-4 

(C) (1) Import of samples supplied free of charge 
upto Rs. 20,000 in value, samples of drugs and 
medicines, supplied free of charge upto Rs. 10,000 
and free samples of insecticides is allowed under 
OGL-4 appearing in Appendix 7 subject to the con¬ 
ditions laid down. 

(2) Research and Development units and Scientific 
or Research Laboratories can import proto-types/ 
samples under Open General Licence, as provided in 
Appendix 6 

Import of samples by Registered Exporters 

(D) Necessary provisions for import of samples/ 
proto-types by Registered Exporters have been made 
in Chapter XIV. 

Import of gas cylinders 

44. (1) Applications for import of gas cylinders 
will be considered by Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi, irrespective of the value involved. 
Applications should be made in the form prescribed 
for import of Capital Goods. 

(2) Applications will be considered, on merits, 
having regard to indigenous production. The CCI4E, 
New Delhi will formulate suitable guidelines tn 
consultation with the administrative Ministry and the 
technical Authorities .cncerned w that import U 
allowed to the extent riur demand can not be met from 
the Indigenous source*. 


(3) Import of LPG cylinders will not be allowed. 

(4) Import of medical gas cylinders upto 10.2 
litre water capacity and CO* gas cylinders upto 15 
litre water capacity for fire extinguishers as com¬ 
ponents will be allowed under OGL to Actual Users 
(Industrial) in accordance with the provisions made 
in Appendix 6. 

(5) Import of high pressure gas cylinders above 
i 5 litre water capacity as component or spares may 
be considered under the procedure for supplementary 
licensing. 

(6) Import (jf gas cylinders will be subject to the 
followiug conditions : - - 

(i) Cylinders and valves fitted thereto to be 
imported must be of a type as approved by 
the Chief Controller of Explosives and 
accepted for use under the Gas Cylinder 

Rules, 1981. 

(ii) Cylinders imported should not be used for 
any gas service other than the gas for 
which they have been imported for a period 
of ten years from the date of importation. 

(iii) Importers shall obtain necessary permission 
from the Chief Controller of Explosives as 
required under the Gas Cylinder Rules, 
1981, 

Import of Printing Machinery 

45. (1) Printing Machinery fisted in Appendix 1 
Part-B of Imports-Export Policy 1985-88 will be 
allowed for import to eligible Actual Users under 
Open General icence subject to the conditions laid 
down. 

(2) Applications for import of other printing 
machinery should be made to the Chief Controller of 
Imports ft Exports, New Delhi, where the value of 
the machinery to be imported does not exceed Rs. 1 
crore (cif) and to the Secretariat for Industrial Ap¬ 
provals, Ministry of Industry, New Delhi where the 
value exceeds Rs. 1 ?rore. 

(3) Printing machinery imported by Projects & 
Equipments Corporation Ltd. under rupee payment 
arrangements will be distributed to eligible Actual 
Users by the Projects & Equipments Corporation on 
the basis of Release Advice issued by the licensing 
authority. In such cases also import applications 
tliould be made to the Chief Controller of Imports & 
exports, New Delhi, or the Secietarifft for Industrial 
approvals, m the case may be. 



14 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


Import ol Capital Goods by Government Departments 
and Public Sector Enterprises 

46. Facilities for import of capital goods by Gov¬ 
ernment Departments, Departmentally run Under¬ 
takings and Public Sector Enterprises are given in 
Chapter VII of this Book. 

Import ol Capital Goods by Non-Resident Indians/ 
Persons of Indian Origin 

47. Non-resident Indians/persons of Indian origin 
who wish to return home for permanent settlement will 
be allowed to import Capital Goods subject to the 
following conditions :— 

(i) they undertake to set up a new industry 
which conforms to the Government indus¬ 
trial policy in force or participate in the 
expansion or diversification of an existing 
unit within the framework of industrial 
policy; or they wish to set up a servicing 
unit; 

(ii) import of Capital Goods (new or second¬ 
hand) purchased out of their own foreign 
exchange savings and resources abroad will 

be allowed, 

(iii) import of professional equipment (new or 

second-hand), purchased out of the 

applicant’* own foreign exchange earning* 
and resources abroad, and used by the 
applicant abroad for at least one year before 
returning to India, may be allowed; if such 
equipment has not been used by the 
applicant abroad for at least one year, its 
import will be limited to Rupees one lakh 
in value (c.i.L); 

(iv) import of restricted capital good* may also 
be allowed on merits provided the machi¬ 
nery, In question, hai been wholly owned 
and used abroad by the applicant for at- 
Ieast two years before returning to India, 
For this purpose, the applicant will have 
to produce evidence of purchase tnd use; 

(v) import of texturising machines and warp 
knitting machines will not be allowed under 
these provision*; 

(vi) import of new capital goods listed in 
Appendix 1, Part B can be made under Open 
General Licence without any value limit; 


(vii) import of *econd-hand machinery in respect 
of items appearing in Appendix I Part B 
can be made under Open General Licence 
without any value limit. Import of second¬ 
hand machinery items other than those in 
Appendix 1 Part B, which were in actual 
use of the applicant, will be considered on 
liberal basis. Import of second-hand 
machinery which has not been in actual use 
of the applicant may also be considered, 
on merits. Import of machinery having 
expected residual life of less than J years 
and also machinery more than 7 years old 
will not be allowed. However, import ol 
second-hand paper mill machinery and 
cigarette making machinery will not be 
allowed under these provisions; 

(viii) import of generating set of above 500 KVA 
ratting, purchased out of applicant’s own 
foreign exchange earnings and resources 
abroad, may also be allowed; 

(ix) import of office equipment purchased out 
of the applicant’s foreign exchange earnings 
and resource* abroad, and furniture which 
was in use by the applicant abroad, may 
be allowed, provided the total value of both 
these items doe* not exceed Rupees one lakh 
c.ii. (when new) and these are required 
for use in the applicant’s industry in India; 

(x) import of computer *ystem may also be 
allowed in cases where the applicant has 
been using it abroad for at least one year 
before returning to India provided its c.i.f. 

value i* not more than Rs. 10 lakhs, whether 
new or old or where computer is an integral 
built-in part of the equipment being allowed 
for import; 

(xi) import of prototype, purchased out of the 
applicant’s own foreign exchange earnings 
and resources abroad, may alto be allowed; 

(xil) import of cement, purchased out of 
applicant’s own foreign exchange earnings 
and resources abroad, and required for 

construction of factory building, may also 

be allowed; 

(xill) the benefit of conce**ional rate of customs 
duty a* admissible to ‘project imports’ may 
be allowed In these cases in consultation 
with recbnical vutbodHe* concerned ; 



[ttpt I — - 'Sa lj 


vitot ■tt r R t ra. arnimtoi 


15 


i.iiv) oeither the capital invested nor the profits 
would be allowed to be repatriated abroad; 

(rv) no permission to sell the Capital Goods 
will be allowed lor a period of 5 years 
from the date of Import Thereafter, such 
sale may be made, only with the prior per¬ 
mission of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi. 

48tl), Non-resident Indians/persons of Indian 
origin, who are allowed to Import machinery into India 
under the provisions made in para 47 above (excluding 
generating sets, office equipment, computer system, 
second-hand machinery other than those in Appendix 1 
Part-B and prototypes), will be allowed to import such 
machinery without an import licence (i.e. under 
OGL) for a value not exceeding Rs. 20 lakhs (landed 
cost). At the time of clearance through customs, 
they shall furnish a declaration that : — 

(i) the imported machinery shall be used in 
the industry being set up by the importer 
in India or for use in the industry in India 
in which the importer will be investing, in 
accordance with the policy in force. 

(li) The industry, in which the imported 
machinery shall be used, will not have a 
total capital investment in plant and 
machinery of a value more than the upper 
limit fixed for small scale industries, in 
para 7(5) of Import and Export Policy 
(Vol. I) for 1985-88. 

(iii) The imported machinery has been purchased 
out of importer’s earnings/resources abroad, 
and does not involve any remittance from 
India. 

(iv) The import shall be subject to ‘Actual 
User’ condition and other conditions as 
applicable to non-resident Indians under 
the proviisons of the impot policy in force, 

(v) Within three months of the date of clearance 
from the customs, the importer shall inform 
about the import of the machinery, in 
question, 'o the Director of Industries of the 
State in which the machinery shall be used 

(2) Import of restricted Capital Gooui appearing 
ta Appendix I Part -A of import policy will not be 
allowed under OGL For the Import of such Capital 
Goods and aLo for import of (I) oilier Capital Goods 


and (li) other items as permissible under these 
provisions, the applicants will be required to obtain 
import licences. (Import of machinery mentioned in 
tub-para 47(v) above will not be allowed under OGL 
or otherwise under these provisions) 

(3) In cases where the Non-resident Indian/peison 
of India origin desires to obtain a Customs Clearance 
Permit in respect of items, which arc otherwise allow¬ 
ed for import under Open General Licence, with a 
view to availing of concessional rate of duty under 
‘Project Import’ facility, wherever eligible, he may 
apply for isNtie of CCP 

(4) Application lor impoit of Capita! Goods 
should be made in the form specifically presented for 
this purpose in Chaptei III ol the Hand Book of 
Import-Export Procedures 1985-S8. These applicants 
should be made to Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI), Department of Industrial Development, Udyog 
Bhavan, New Delhi. 

(5) Application* for the grant of industrial licence 
in the prescribed form IL duly tilled in with 14 spare 
copies and proposal for foreign collaboration will 
also be considered by the Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI). Every proposal so received from a non¬ 
resident Indian/pcrson of Indian oigin would be con¬ 
sidered on a comjtqsile basis including issue of indus¬ 
trial licences, where necessary. Government’s decision 
will be communicated to the applicant within a period 
of 45 dayi 

(6) The industrial units concerned (if they are 
new) will be required to get themselves registered with 
the sponsoring authorities concerned, except in cases 
referred to in sub-paras (4) and (5) above, within 
a period of one year from the date of import of 
Capital Goods, in accordance with the policy laid 
down. 

Special Scheme for Electronics industry 

49(1). Non-resident lnoians/persons of Indian 
origin returiing home for permanent settlement and 
setting up an electronic industry, or investing in 
an electronics industry in India, including their invest¬ 
ment for the cipanrioo, diversification or modemisa- 
rion of an existing electron's industry, will be allowed 
to import maJiincry for thi* purpose under Open 
Genera) Licence. 

(2) I'hi* scheme will apply to the industries 
manufacturing (t) electionic component* (other than 
» .81, VCSi). (ti) mitrui'i-ms (in) (arpe recorders, 



16 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(iv) Two-in-one, tv) Hi Fi equipment, ivi) electronic 
teaching aids, (vii) industrial and process control 
systems, (viil) major sub-systems of radars, naviga¬ 
tional aids and co mm unication equipment, 
(be) electronic medical equipment, but the scheme will 
not cover manufacture of computers. In the case of 
units manufacturing radars, navigational aides and 
co mmuni cation equipment, the units concerned will be 
required to obtain specific prior approval of the 
Department of Electronics, New Delhi, before taking 
up manufacture. 

(3) There will be no upper value limit for Capital 
Goods to be imported under OGL for the above- 
mentioned industries. No indigenous clearance will 
also be necessary for import. At the time of clearance 
through customs, the importer shall furnish a declara¬ 
tion that :— 

(i) The imported machinery shall be used in the 
industry being set up by the importer in 
India or for use in the industry in India in 
which the importer will be investing, in ac¬ 
cordance with the policy in force. 

(ii) The imported machinery has been purchased 
out of importer’s carnings/resources abroad, 
and does not involve any remittance from 
India. 

(iii) The import shall be subject to ‘Actual 
User’ condition and other conditions as 
applicable to non-resident Indians under the 
provisions of the import policy in force. 

(iv) Within three months of the date of clearance 
from the customs, the importer shall inform 
about the import of the machinery, in 
question, to the Department of Electronics, 
Lok Nayak Bhawan, Khan Market, New 
Delhi with a copy to the Director of 
Industries of the State in which the 
machinery shall be used. 

(4) No permission for sale of Capital Goods will 
be allowed for a period of five yean from the date 
of import. Thereafter, sale may be made only with 
the prior permission of the CCI&E, New Delhi. The 
units concerned will be required to get themselves 
registered with the sponsoring authorities concerned 
in accordance with the policy laid down within a 
period of oue year from the date of import of Capital 
Goods. 


Import of Capital Goods against REP licences 

50(1). An Actual User (Industrial) may be allowed 
to utilise REP licence(s) for import of Capital Goods/ 
prototypes in the manner stated below :— 

(a) A manufacturer-exporter may be allowed 
to utilise REP licence(s) issued to him 
against his own exports of the select pro¬ 
ducts manufactured by him, for the import 
of Capital Goods/prototypes without the 
recommendation of the sponsoring authority 
concerned, without indigenous clearance and 
without the advertisement procedure being 
followed, provided (i) the machinery to 
be imported does not appear in Appendix 
1 Part A in this policy, (ii) the applicant 
declares that the machinery, in question, 
shall not result in exceeding his licensed/ 
approved capacity and (iii) the import of 
machinery shall be subject to ‘Actual User’ 
condition. The value upto which such im¬ 
ports will be allowed shall be related to the 
percentage and volume of production of 
Select Products exported. These values are 
given below, separately for SSI units and 
for Non-SSI units seeking to avail of this 
facility :— 

% age of Minimum FOB value Maximum C1F value 
production of exports by of imports allowed 
exported to 

SSI units Non-SSI SSI units Non-SSI 
units units 

10 to below ,15, 5 20 5 20 

25 to below 50 15 40 10 40 

T50 to below 75 30 60 45 60 

75 and above 40 100 20 73 

(Rs. In lakhi) (Rs. In lakhs) 

(b) The facility available in sub-para (a) above, 
will also be allowed to manufacturer- 
exporter, whose export performance during 
any of the two previous financial year* is 
not less than Ri, 1 crore but who has not 
achieved the minimum export percentage of 
his production indicated in sub-para (a) 
above, subject to the same conditions, pro¬ 
vided that the c.i.f. value of capital goods/ 
prototypes (Including instruments and tools) 
to be imported does not exceed Rs. 5 lakhs 
in the case of SSI units or Rs. 20 lakhs in 
the case of non-SSI unit# 



[smrl—1] 


VfVS *fT WTtT: 3RnHR«r 


17 


(c) The facility available in sub-para (a) above 

will also be allowed to manufacturer-expor¬ 
ters, subject to the same conditions, irres¬ 
pective of their level of export performance, 
provided that the c.i.f. value of equipment 
(including instruments and tools) to be im¬ 
ported does not exceed Rs. two lakhs during 
the licensing year. 

(d) The facility in sub-para (a) above will also 
be available to a manufacturer-exporter 
whose exports of select products, in any of 
the two previous financial years were less 
than the limits mentioned in (a) above, but 
in his case, the import will be subject to 
indigenous clearance from the DGTD, or 
the Textile Commissioner, or the Jute Com¬ 
missioner, as the case may be. Other con¬ 
ditions stated above will also apply. Such 
units will also be eligible to facility in (c) 
above. 

(e) In cases not covered by (a), (b), (c) and (d) 

above, i.e. where the machinery is to be 
imported against REP licences other than 
those issued on own exports of the appli¬ 
cant of the products manufactured by him, 
and/or its c.i.f. value exceeds the prescribed 
upper value limits, the normal CG procedu¬ 
re will apply, if the REP licence is sought 
to be utilised for import of machinery/pro¬ 
totypes. 

(f) In all the above types of cases, bulking of 
valid REP licences will also be allowed to 
enable the licence holders to consolidate 
their value for the purpose of import of 
machineiy under these provisions for a 
period of 3 years as per para 187(2)(e) of 
the Hand Book. 

(g) The facility allowed in sub-para (a) above, 
will also be available to a manufacturer, 
none of whose products qualifies for REP 
entitlement in Appendix 17, although the 
f.o.b. value of his exports of such products 
manufactured by him during the preceding 
licensing year was not less than 25% of the 
gross value of his output and also not less 
than R». 5.0 lakhs (f.o.b.) in value, provid¬ 
ed the c.i.f. value of the machinery allowed 
during the licensing year is not more than 
5% of the f.o.b. value of his exports, subject 
to a maximum of Rs. 20 lakhs. Other 
conditions (i), (ii> and (lii) laid down in 
'iub-para (a) above shall equally apply. 


(h) A manufacturer-exporter intending to un- 
port machinery under sub-para (a) above, 
may be allowed to import the same, subject 
to prescribed conditions, against his own 
valid REP licence(s) or against valid REP 
licence(s) acquired by him, by transfer, in 
accordance with the import policy in force. 
Other conditions as laid down will apply. 
This facility will be in relaxation of the 
provision made in sub-para (e) above, in 
so far as manufacturer-exporters coveted 
under sub-para (a) are concerned. 

(2) Maufacturer-exporters may be allowed to 
utilise upto 20 per cent of the f.o.b. value of their 
exports of wooden furniture and parts thereof for 
import of machinery required by them. A list of items 
of machinery to be allowed for import is given in 
Appendix 14. Import licences issued under this pro¬ 
vision will be available in respect of exports made 
from 1st April of the licensing year. Import 
applications can be made on quarterly or half-yearly 
or annual basis as the exporter may desire. The 
import application should also be accompanied by a 
bank certificate showing the description of the product 
exported, the date of export and the f.o.b. value. 'It 
will be necessary for the applicant to produce 
recommendation of the sponsoring authority for this 
purpose. 

(3) The facility available in *ub-pM» (2) above, 
will also be allowed to the manufacturer-exporters of 
“moulded wooden products” subject to the same 
conditions. The import of items listed at SI. Nos. 9, 
11, 12, 13 and 15 of Appendix 14 of this policy will 
not, however, be allowed. 

Import of Capital Goods by Export Houses/ Trading 
Houses 

51. Export Houses/Trading House* will be granted 
the following facilities under this policy 

(i) Import of Capital Good* placed on Open 
General Licence in the manner *et down 
hereunder; 

(ii) Import of Capital Good* again*: REP/ 
Additional licences to enable them to set op 
common servicing centre* for the benefit of 
their supporting manufacturer* Mid other 
exporting units. Application* for such import 
will be considered by the ^hicf Controller 
of Imports and Exports (EP III Section), 
New Delhi in the cast. IU;> in Houses 
and by uv reset* rs* >• hr-t* ' •• in 

the case of l>so*rg finuars, : * {-mwiliatttm 
with the technical authority c-eaeermed. 



18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(nil Export Ho- '■es/Tradmg IFk.s-s may also be 
allowed to impoit non-OGL Capital Goods 
(other than those ia Appendix 1 Part A) 
upto Rs. 20 lakhs (eif) duiing a licensing 
period, subject to indigenous clearance, 
agaiust REP licences/Additional licences. 
The imported goods will be disposed of to 
Actual Users (Industrial) in the same 
manner as laid down in para 263(4). Appli¬ 
cations for such import will he considered by 
the regional licensing authorities concerned 
in consultation with DGTD. 

Note :—Under this provision, second-hand capi¬ 
tal goods will not ordinarily be allowed for 
import. However, if an Export House/ 
Trading House wants to import second-hand 
machinery for supply to a particular Actual 
User (Industrial), it should give to the 
licensing authority complete particulars of 
Actual User (Industrial) and the justification 
for import of second-hand machinery by 
the Actual User, apart from the Chartered 
Engineer’s Certificate in respect of the 
second-hand machinery to be imported and 
other documents, if any, as required for 
import of second-hand machinery under the 
import policy in force. DGTD will also 
examine the need and essentiality for im¬ 
port of the machinery in question for the 
concerned Actual User named by the Export 
House/Trading House, apart from examin¬ 
ing the machinery from indigenous angle. 
The import, if allowed in such eases, will be 
on the express condition that the machinery 
shall be disposed of only to Actual Users 
for whom it has been cleared by DGTD 
and shall be subject to other prescribed con¬ 
ditions. For the put pose of debit to the 
overall ceiling of Rs. ^0 lakhs (cif), the 
current cif value of the new machine of the 
same description shall be taken, and not the 
value actuaiy paid, where th.e machinery to 
be imported is second-hand or used. For 
this purpose, the Export House/Trading 
House will also produce proforma invoice 
of the new machine of the samt/equivalent 
description, to the licensing authority. 

Import til Capital goods placed on GGL 

52(1). Export Houses/Trading Houses will be 

allowed to import Capital Goot.s (Ik.ed in Appendix 1 

Put-Bt ai-a : h».‘ r tP■ < u : m us-u own 

name -«■ transf trr •«! * ii,n !* 


[Part I —Stc. 1] 


(2) REP licences, against which Export House*/ 
Trading Houses wish to take advantage of the facility 
provided in sub-para ( 1) above, shall bo non- 
transferable. 

(3) Export Houses/ Trading Houses, who wHi to 
take advantage of this facility, should get the licences 
concerned endorsed by the licensing authority as 
under:— 

“This Lienee will alsv be vaiiu foi import of 
Capital Goods (listed in Appendix 1 
Part-B) under para 52 of this. Polity, 
subject to the conditions laid down, and 
shall be non-transferable.” 

(4) Disposal of capital goods will be governed by 
the provisions in para 263(4) Chapter XXI of this 
policy. 

Import of Capital Goods agaiust Additional Licences 
by Export Houses/Trading Houses 

53(1). Additional Licences will be valid for import 
of Capital Goods listed in Appendix 1 P?rt-B. This 
facility will be subject to the same conditions as laid 
down in para 52 except that the endorsement referred 
to in sub-pata 52(3) will not be required in the case 
of Additional Licences which are already non- 
transferable. 

(2) Goods imported by Export Houses/Trading 
Houses against Additional licences will be disposed 
of by them in the same manner and subject to same 
conditions as laid down in para 263(4) of this policy. 

Import of machinery by Units In Free Trade Zones 
and by 100% Export Oriented Units 

54. The policy for import of Capital Goods by 
100% Export Oriented Units and by units located in 
Free Trade Zone* i* given in Appendix 23 of (hi* 
Book. 

Import of Capital Goods by AU (Non-Industrial) 
R&D Units 

55. Any Research sou Development uoit/oUiti 

scientific or research laboratory, any institution ol 
higher education or a hosphal, recognised by the 
Central or s State Government, will be eligible to 
import its requirements of machinery, equipment, 
instruments and accessories (but not wmumer goods, 
howsoever, described and office, machines) aider Open 
Gener-J ' ' "P*<> * > f~ x r»\ t!*« 

-OU'.lii 1 ■ s f< 1 *0 ♦ :>„ ft . Got" { SK (I ill,, 

pohry !i*i t d*"V t to 0 'ir» v >,f -haute* -artsi > 



■»rr- r 'T ^ 1 MH ^'TUICT 


19 


[•JTT'T I—nr? l] 

Consultancy, Designing and Engineering Firms 

56. Import of Capital Goods is allowed to 
Consultancy, Designing and Engineering Firms. 
Details are given in Chapter VIII of this Book. 

Import of machinery by hotels 

57. Tourist hotels (one-star to five-star) requiring 
items other than spares should make import applica¬ 
tions to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, through the Diiecfor General of Tourism, 
New Delhi. Licences will be granted on his 
recommendation only. Import may not, however, be 
allowed in respect of hems available from indigenous 
sources. 

Import of Computer Systems 

58. (1) For the purposes of imports, computer 
systems have been classified into two categories : one 
for computer systems costing less tnan Rs. 10 lalhs 
(cif) and the second category for computer systems 
costing Rs. 10 lakhs (cif) and above. 

(2) Import of computer and computer systems cost¬ 
ing less than Rs. 10 lakhs (cif) 

(A) All persons would be allowed to import 
computer systems for Uieir own use (but not for 
stock and sal e purposes), at a lower rate of import 
duty, after obtaining prior clearance of the Depart¬ 
ment of Electronics who would examine such pro¬ 
posals from the desirability of the end application, 
essentiality of import and indigenous angle etc. 
Import of computer systems costing less than Rs. 10 
lakhs (oif) will also be allowed to all persons, for tbeir 
own use (but not for stock and sale purposes), under 
OGL by paying higher rate of import duty. For 
OGL import, the importer would be required to 
import following minimum configuration in one con¬ 
signment :— 

Each Central Processing Unit will include— 

(i) Operating System Software and adequate 
memory therefor. 

Hi) Computer console. 

till) Two disk/cartridge/tape drives and associat 
ed controller (excluding floppy and cassette 

drives). 

(iv) One punter with Fiat on width 80 prm 1 
pnribra* or p *f pfi htv 


(B) However, secmd-haad conquer, computer- 
based .ysteros shall not be permitted under OGL 
provision. Customs duty on OGL import will be 
levied on th e assessed value 

(3) Import of computer and computer oasea systems 
of cif value Rs 10 lakhs arid aboxe 

Import of computer/computer-based systems cost¬ 
ing Rs 10 lakhs (c f ) or above will require prior 
clearance ot the Department of Electronics, who will 
look into the desiiability of the end application, 
essentiality, indigenous angle etc For such imports, 
special proceduies laid down by the Depaitment of 
Electronics will be followed. All Actual Users have, 
therefore, to apply fo the Department of Electronics 
(Computer, Computer-Communication and Instru¬ 
mentation Wing). E-Wing, Pushpa Bhavan, 
Madangir Road, New Delhi-110062 for import 
clearance. 

(4) The policy mentioned in sub-paras (1) to (3) 
above will also apply to computer systems proposed 
for import by all R & D Organisations, whether these 
be enterprises or otherwise, educational institutions, 
hospitals & such other organisations which are other¬ 
wise eligible to import their requirements on OGL 
basis. 

(5) Prior clearance of the Department of Electro¬ 
nics will not be necessary for import of computer/ 
computer systems by Non Resident Indians, under 
the provisions made in para 47 above of this policy. 

(6) Clearance of Department of Electronics will 
also not be lequirefi where computer is a built-in 
integral part of the equipment 

59(1) Import of Computer Syi.,-m is allowed 
subejet to export obligation as provided in Para 
187(2) of the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce¬ 
dures, 1985— 88, For purposes of augmenting their 
export capability Computer software exporter^ after 
discharging the export obligation referred to above, 

I may be granted impon licence ecus' u 50 per cent of 
tie foiCign txcliJiigi cdrr:--v -ore -if ,t of computer 
software atiu ichoto services ostt ud above the 
specified expon obligation in case .4 exporter! not 
[ subject to an expon obligation ako, import licence 
fo.*- be givvn e of * * 4 . pc; t 1 t .t cct *m exchange 

^ 1 1 f> ** i* t'mii s it i .hr r and 

d r * -tied nerviest ! St ;>•, n*i • *>■» t jnhutble 



20 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


to Categmy A, B and C which are defined as 

under :— 

Category A : Where the applicant undertakes 
to export software of f.o.b. value equal to 
twice the c.i.f. value of import allowed. 

Category B ; Where an applicant imports com¬ 
puter system out of his own foreign ex- 
chang earnings abroad and undertakes to 
expoit software of f.o.b. value equal to the 
c.i.f. value allowed. 

Category C : Where an applicant imports com¬ 
puter system for the purpose of enhancing/ 
modifying system hardware and/or software 
against a specific export order, with the 
condition that tho imported computer 
systems shall be re-exported after the export 
order has been executed. In such cases 
imported computer systems shall not be 
used for any domestic work. 

(2) Only such export earnings will be taken into 
account for determining the value of licence as have 
accrued on export of software and related services 
made on or after 1st April of the licensing year. 

(3) Import licences may be issued for the import 
of :— 

(i) Hardware [excluding replacement or aug¬ 
mentation of the Central Processing Unit 
(C.P.U.) but including augmentation of the 
memory of the C.P.U.] software and peri¬ 
pherals for purposes of augmenting existing 
computer/computer related systems. 

(ii) Testing equipment related to the export 
capability. 

(iii) Software tools such as cioss assemblers, de- 
assemblers, de-compilers, compiler pro¬ 
gramme generators, flow-chart generators, 
debugging and diagnostic tools, performance 
evaluation and monitoring tools. 

(Iv) Consumables and supplies related to the ex¬ 
port capability. 

(4) Prior approval of Department of Electronics 
will not be required by the licensing authority for 
allowing import of the above items, 

(5) ApplE'-.Boti may (,■ ;,i>de G die Jkui a g 
authority roneorned. 


[Part I -sec. 1] 

(6) import licence and the goods and the system 
imported against such licences will be subject to 
‘Actual User’ Condition. The items imported will 
be used for the development of computer software 
and will not be allowed to be transferred by way of 
loan, sale, pledge or otherwise for a period of 5 years 
from the date of import. 

(7) Concerned exporter will be allowed to accumu¬ 
late upto a period of three yea is part value or the full 
value of import entitlements accruing under this 
provision as per para 187(2) (e) of the Hand Book 
of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88 for availing 
of the facility mentioned in sub-para (8) below. 

(8) Such import licences may also be utilised ior 
import of data preparation system and new computer 
systems, i elated hardware, software and peripherals. 
The request for import of such items may be made to 
the licensing authority concerned. The licensing 
authority will obtain the recommendation of the 
Department of Electronics. The Department of 
Electronics will convey their recommendation to the 
licensing authority concerned within six weeks of the 
receipt of such reference. Licences issued under this 
sub-para will be subject to the following conditions :— 

(i) Import of the items mentioned above will be 
subject to export obligation of 100% of the 
c.i.f. value of such items to be imported. 

(it) Before the clearance of fitst consignment, the 
applicant will be required to execute a bond 
with the licensing authority in the prescribed 
form backed by a bank guarantee under¬ 
taking to export equal to 100 per cent of the 
c.i.f. value of items imported, 

(iii) The export obligation will be discharged 
over a period of maximum five years com¬ 
mencing from the date of clearance of the 
first consignment. It will further be a con¬ 
dition that the export to be made in dis¬ 
charge of th e obligation shall be achieved 
in the following manner :— 

(a) 20% of the total export obligation at iLie 
end of 2nd year. 

(b) 40% of the total export obligation at the 
end of 3rd year. 

(c) 60% of the total export obligation at the 
end of 4th year, 

id) of the total export oNigtlloa at the 

end of 5th year. 



XTT77K Wl ‘JTTrra ’ SDIlHfv 'R 


21 



I'ffi’i 1— , sfv 1] 

(,iv) InqxM licences and the poods and the 
system imported against such licences will 
be subject to “Actual User" condition and 
will not be allowed U> be transferred by 
way of loan, sale, pledge or otherwise for a 
period of 5 years from the date of import. 

(9) In cases where the importer of a computer sys¬ 
tem fails to comply with the conditions subject to 
which the import is allowed, be will be liable to action 
under the Imports & Exports (Control) Act, 1947, 
as amended, Imports/Exports (Control) Orders and 
other provisions connected therewith. 

Imports of machinery for agricultural development and 
food processing Industries 

60(1). A number of machinery items required for 
development of food processing, meat processing, egg 
and poultry processing and fish processing industries, 
packaging machinery required for technological up- 
gradation, and machinery required for transportation 
of frozen foods, have been allowed import under Open 
General Licence in Appendix 1 Part B of import 
policy. 

(2) Import of gibberellic acid and grape guard 
paper has been allowed under OGL to State Agricul¬ 
tural Development Corporations, Co-operative 
Societies of farmers and Associations of fanners re¬ 
cognised by the State Government, for distribution 
to grape growers, (Please see Appendix 6). 

(3) Import of fishing hooks and permissible spares 
for trawlers hav e been allowed under OGL for all 
persons. (Please see Appendix 6). 

(4) Import of grape guard paper will also be 
allowed on REP licences issued against exports of 
fresh fruits, vegetables and flowers. (Please see 
Appendix 17), 

(5) Applications for import of machinery', Green 
Houses and other items required for agricultural 
development, not indigenously available, will be con¬ 
sidered by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi, on the recommendation of the 
State Government concerned. Applications should 
be made in the form prescribed for this purpose in 
Appendix III-D of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88, through the Department of 
Agricutture of the State Government concerned. Such 
Applications will be examined by the Co-ordination 
Committee headed by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports referred to in Chapter XII of this Book. 


As _[ measure of procedural simplification, the intend¬ 
ing importers will not be required to advertise the 
machinery sought to be imported, before applying for 
tho licence. Such applications will also not be placed 
hefore the concerned Capital Goods Committee. They 
will, however, be subject to indigenous clearance by 
DGTD, 

(6) Import applications under sub-para(5) above 
may also be considered by the Co-ordination Com¬ 
mittee on the recommendation of Export Promotion 
Division in the Ministry of Commerce, New Delhi. 

Import of Machinery/Equipment (or Development ol 
Sports 

61(1). Applications for import of sports goods/ 
equipment not indigenously available, will be con¬ 
sidered from Central and State Government Organi¬ 
sations dealing with sports. Educational Institutions/ 
Universities, Associations of sportsmen, sports clubs 
and eminent sportsmen, duly sponsored and 
recommended by the Central or State Government 
department concerned. 

(2) Applications may be made to the Chief 
Controller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi in the 
form prescribed for this purpose in Appendix ITI-E 
of the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985—88 through the concerned sponsoring authority. 
The sponsoring authority, before recommending the 
Import, will obtain indigenous clearance from DGTD 
(Import & Export Policy Cell), Udyog Bhavan, New 
Delhi. In respect of the items listed in Appendix 11 
of this Book, it will not be necessary to obtain 
indigenous clearance from DGTD. 

(3) Applications involving value beyond Rs. 1.0 
lakh will be placed before the Inter-Dcpartmcntal 
Committee, 

Import of diesel generating sets 

62(1). Applications will be considered for the 
grant of licences for the import of diesel generating 
sets of rating above 1000 KVA. Applications for 
diesel generating sets in the range from above 
500 KVA to 1000 KVA will also be considered on 
merits, depending upon the delivery schedule from 
indigenous sources. Eligible actual users may submit 
Ibcir applications to the CCI&E (C.G. Cell), New 
Delhi, direct upto a value of Rs. 1 ctore (c.i.f.) and to 
the Secretariat for Industrial Approval, Ministry of 
Industry, New Delhi Lr higher value. 



22 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


ioi imps*. * oi IXj set* upto 
500 KVA will not be comiidered. 

(3) Import o l electric portable generators upto 
3.5 KVA is restricted. Applications lor import of 
higher rating will bo governed by normal C.G. proce¬ 
dure, 

(4) Application may be made in the form and 
manner laid down in Chapter III of the Hand Book 
of Import-Export Procedures, 1985—88. 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR IMPORT OF 
CAPITAL GOODS 

Import of Capital Goods through NSIC and other 
Small Industries Corporations 

63(1). National Small Industies Corporation of 
India Ltd. and such (State) Small Industries Corpo¬ 
rations as are approved by the Development Com¬ 
missioner (Small Scale Industries), Government of 
India, for this purpose may also be allowed to import 
Capital Goods other than those listed in Appendix 1 
Part A for sale to eligible actual users in SSI sector. 
Import applications may be made to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi. 

Import of machinery by Stale Agro-Industries Corpo¬ 
rations 

(2) State Agro-Industries Corporations may be 
allowed to import agricultural machinery and spares 
on the recommendation of the State Government con¬ 
cerned for sale to eligible actual users. Applications 
may be made to the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, New Delhi. 

Import of Capital Goods financed by Leasing Com¬ 
panies 

(3) Applications for import of Capital Goods 
including those, import of which is allowed under 
Open General Licence, received from Actual Users 
having leasing agreement with a leasing company will 
be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports. Details are given in Chapter ITT of the Hand 
Book of Import & Export Procedures, 1985—88. 

Import of Second-hand machinery 

64(1). Import of second-hand machinery may also 
be allowed under OGL In respect of the Capital Good* 
listed in Appendix I Part-B. To such cases, however, 
the importer will produce to the customs authority at 
the time of clearance a certificate from a professional 


independent Chartered EngmeeiyAaj equiTuhsa- 
Institute in the country from which import is made, 
indicating : 

<i) name of the manufacturer of the plant and 
machinery ; 

(ii) year of manufacture ; 

(iii) present condition of the plant and machinery 
and its expected residual life ; (Import of 
machinery having expected residual life of 
less than 5 years and also machinery more 
than 7 years old will not be allowed); 

(iv) the c.i.f. value of equivalent capital goods, 
if purchased new; 

(v) nature of reconditioning/repair done, if any, 
and the date(s) on which these were carried 

out; and 

(vi) opinion regarding the price asked for by the 
suppliers and the basis for such opinion. 

(2) Import of second-hand machinery which is 
older than 7 years and have less than 5 years expected 
residual life will not be allowed. 

Flexibility 

65. Capital Goods licence issued to a project 
will be valid for the import of any item of capital 
goods not already covered by it, provided the item 
is needed for th e expeditions completion of the 
project, and its value does not exceed 5% of the value 
of the licence, subject to a maximum of Rs. 25 lakhs, 
within the overall value of the licence. Under this 
facility, import of restricted items of capital goods 
will not be permitted. This facility will be available 
on Capital Goods licences issued to those projects 
which are eligible for concessional rate of duty as 
provided for in Chapter VIII of the Hand Book of 
Import-Export Procedures, 1985—88. 


CHAPTER IV 

CANALISATION OF IMPORTS 

66. The items canalised for import through desig¬ 
nated public sector agencies are listed in Appendix 5 
Part A and Part B. The concerned agency will import 
them under Open General Licence, 



sron *PT JTSTRf. STUTUros 


23 


l»rpT I—fjfi r] 


&/. A Ucacirci » tiionag* &n»c« Jt u apprehended 
Lb respect of any item, the import of which is not 
permitted, its import may be arranged by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, through 
a public sector agency. In such a situation, the 
following provisions in this Chapter as well as those 
in Chapter IV of Hand-Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88 will be as applicable thereto 
as if it were an item canalised for import. 

68. It shall be open to the canalising agency con¬ 
cerned to sell the goods before their importation into 
India. In such cases, the clearance of the imported 
goods through the customs may be claimed by the 
purchaser on the basis of an authorisation issued by 
the agency concerned to that effect, 

69. No Release Orders will be required by eligible 
Actual Users from the licensing or sponsoring autho¬ 
rity for obtaining their legitimate requirements of 
these items from the canalising agency concerned. 

70. (1) In the case of items being decanalised for 
import in this policy, persons who hav e already re¬ 
gistered their demands with the concerned canalising 
agency will not be alowed to cancel their indents 
except with the consent of the agency concerned. 

(2) In all cases where direct import of a canalised 
item is allowed to any person, it shall be a condition 
that the importer shall furnish particulars of the im¬ 
ports made to the canalising agency concerned in the 
prescribed proforma appearing in Appendix IV F of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88. 
At the time of clearance the importer will be required 
to declare to the customs that these particulars regard¬ 
ing the consignment sought to be cleared have been 
sent to the concerned canalising agency. Failure to 
comply with this requirement will entail penal action 
under the imports control regulations, besides the 
stoppage of the facility to the licence holder against 
current licences and denial of further licences to him. 

Pricing Committee 

71. There will be a Pricing Committee under the 
chairmanship of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, and consisting of the 
representatives of the Department of Commerce, the 
Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic 
Affairs), the Department of Steel, the Economic 
Adviser in the Ministry of Industry, the Director 
Genera) of Technical Development the Development 
CommitsioKcr i'-‘mull Industries) and the other 
*dm in iso'stive Mmjitrv concerned with the item, fot 
determining/prescribing the selling prices of items 
appearing its Apcendh 5 Part-A from time «o time 


Monitoring Committee 

72. In order to oversee the working of the scheme 
of canalisation, there will be a Monitoring Committee 
under the chairmanship of the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports, and consisting ot the members 
as mentioned in para 71 above. The actual quantum 
of items appearing in Appendix 5, Part-A to be im¬ 
ported by the canalising agency will be decided by 
the administrative Ministry concerned in consultation 
with the Ministry of Commerce, the Department of 
Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Industry, other 
Ministries/Department concerned and the canalising 
agency. However, this Committee will continue to 
review the arrangements made for meeting the regis¬ 
tered demands of the Actual Users from time to time. 
In cases or circumstances where the Committee 
considers it necessary or desirable to expedite supplies, 
it may recommend to the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports the issue of import liccnce(s) directly in 
the namc(s) of the concerned Actual Users (s). 

Imports, distribution & pricing of Items covered by 
Appendix 5 Part B 

73. Imports, distribution and pricing of the items 
appearing in Appendix 5 Part-B will be governed by 
the connected policy of Government in the respective 
Ministries, as detailed therein. No other person will 
be eligible to import them unless otherwise specifically 
licensed by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi. 

74. The Monitoring Committee referred to in 
Para 72 above will also oversee the working of the 
scheme of canalisation in respect of items appearing 
in Appendix 5 Part B. 

Supply of canalised items against valid licences 

75(1). REP licences are valid for direct imports 
of canalised items as are covered by them. Additional 
licences issued to Trading Houses are also valid for 
direct import of canalised items in Appendix 5 Part A 
to a limited extent as laid down in the policy. Actual 
user licences are also valid for import of canalised 
items in Appendix 5 Part A upto a limited extent 
according to the provisions made in the import policy. 

(2) REP licence holders (whether original licensee 
or transferee). Trading Houses and Actual Users, 
holding valid import licences for direct import of 
canalised items can, if they so desire, obtain suppLies 
ot the canalised items concern* d from the canalising 
agercy, instead of import jut Ihe same from abroad, to 
the extent the item concerned can be imported 
directly against the licence 



24 


THE GA71 ILL OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


I’m m’ ' s *f-l ;* wj" ippfv t^e tmteual 
opto the exteat co'.ezcd by -h.- ....en.s n a j. rice 
fixed by the concerned Pricing Committee. The import 
licence will he deh'tc,! by the (am!King agencv to 
the extent of Tic q, rr*\v -md lie.* '..it. value of the 
goods supplier. Tire .nUv *■ r -*'\cd i>> the canalising 
agency (excluding customs duty) will he treated as the 
c.i.f. value of goods for the purpose of debit to the 
licence. The import licence will cease to be valid 
for direct import of canalised items to the extent 
supplies have been obtained from the canalising agency 
against the licence. 

Import of canalised Items against REF licences 

76. The holder of a REF licence may effect direct 
import of those canalised items as appear in that 
licence, upto the extent permitted therein or which 
can be imported against the licence under any specific 
provision in this policy In such cases the con¬ 
dition referred to in sub-para 70(2) above will apply 

Flexibility 

77(1.). fn the case of item* camhVd for import ua 
this policy, but which were not canalised in the pre¬ 
ceding years, the eligible Actual Users may be allowed 
to make direct imports to the extent of 25% of the 
c.i.f. value of their actual consumption of that item 
(imported material only) during any of the two pre¬ 
vious years. Actual Users, who wish to avail of this 
facility, should make theii import applications to the 
licensing authorities concerned along with the required 
statement of consumption duly certified by a Chartered 
Accountant or Cost Accountant or Company Secretary 
or sponsoring authority. Such applications should be 
made so as to reach the licensing authorities concern¬ 
ed not later than 15th May of the licensing year. Such 
Actual Users should register only their balance re¬ 
quirements with the canalising agency concerned. 

(2) The facility referred to in sab-para (l) above 
will not be available in the case of items canalised for 
import in this policy, but which were in the list of 
limited permissible items or the list of restricted 
items in the preceding year. 

Facilities available for industries set up in the 
Backward Areas by Graduates/Diploma Holders in 
professional subjects or by Ex-semcemen/Persons 
belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes. 

78. The following facilities will be available to the 
eligible units in the matter of canalised items :— 

(i) Such units will be requited to pay earnest 
money at the rate of 1 'instead of 2% as 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 

n i 'her cmfM) of *hc sale value of the qua* 
i A of Mx material teg’Stered with the 
canalising agency or Rs. 50.000 whichever 
is less, in terms of para 216 of the Hand 
Bock of Import-Export Procedure*, 

(ii) New units in these categories can register 
their requirements with the canalising 
agencies concerned covering a period of 15 
months (instead of 12 months normally 
permissible) so that such units have extra 
stock for 3 months at the start of operation 
This will be a one-time concession only, 

(iff) Such units may be given weigh tage/priority 
at the time of actual allocation of imported 
goods by the canalising agencies, out of the 
total quantity registered by them. The 
canalising agencies will themselves evolve 
suitable guidelines for this purpose from 
time to time 


CHAPTER V 

IMPORT OF RAW MATERIALS, 
COMPONENTS AND CONSUMABLES 
BY ACTUAL USERS 

79. The requirements of Actual Users (Industrial) 
in the matter of raw materials, components and con¬ 
sumables will be met through the system of (i) Open 
General Licence, (ii) supplementary licensing set 
down in this Chapter, and (iff) allotment through 
canalising agencies as provided in Chapter IV, 

Open General Licence 

80(1). Raw materials, components and consum¬ 
ables which do not appear in Appendices 2, 3, 5 and 
8 of this policy, will be allowed to be imported under 
Open General Licence, subject to the conditions laid 
down. Actual Users will use this facility only to 
import such items as are in conformity with the 
respective provisions of their Industrial Licences ox 
Registration Certificates, as well as the extent of 
indigenisation already achieved/to be achieved by 
them. (Please see Appendix 6 and Para 94 of this 
Book), 



[*rmT—w i] 


TO W ■ilMTO aTHTSTOT 


25 


(2) A special procedure has been evolved for 
import ot components under Open General Licence 
by industrial units borne on the books of D.G.T.D. 
and Textile Commissioner. The concerned uriita shall 
have to comply with the pioccdure laid down. (The 
details in this regard are contained in para 94 of this 
Chapter). 

(3) Import of chemical and allied items, under 
brand names, will not normally be allowed unless full 
description thereof along with specifications and 
chemical structure arc furnished. Eligible importers 
desirous of importing any such item under Open 
General Licence arc advised to clear it with the DGTD 
(I&E Policy Cell), New Delhi, before placing orders 
overseas. Import of consumables under brand names 
shall not be allowed under OGL. 

(4) In the case of any professional grade electronic 
component, (all) importers should set down its inter* 
nationally accepted specification in the invoice, so as 
to enable the customs authorities to satisfy themselves 
whether its clearance is permissible or not under 
OGL or otherwise. 

(5) Provisions regarding import of spares are 
given in Chapter VI of this Book. 

(6) Import of scientific and measuring instruments 
is governed by separate provisions made in Chapter III 
of this policy; their import is not permitted under 
OGL. 

81(1) Every Actual User (Industrial) in whose 
case the phased manufacturing programme has been 
approved by the DGTD or other concerned authority 
should abide by the terms and conditions of phased 
manufacturing programme and furnish to that autho¬ 
rity half-yearly returns of the items imported, their 
quantity and, value, item-wise and a report setting out 
the percentage of jndigenisation achieved in his manu¬ 
facturing programme. This would apply to all indus¬ 
trial units whether in the large or the small scale sector. 
Failure to comply with this requirement will render 
the Actual User (Industrial) liable to penal action 
under the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 besides 
denial of further licences. The return for the half- 
yearly period April—September should reach the 
concerned authority by 31st October of the licensing 
year Similarly, the return for the half-yearly period 
October—March is to reach the concerned authority 
by the end of April of the next ^censing venr tFor 
58 GI/85—3. 


DU ID and I extile machinery manufacturing units, 
please also see para 94 in this Book). 

(2) Actual Users (Industrial) applying for 
supplemental y licences should append to their import 
applications, a declaration duty signed by them, indi¬ 
cating the description of raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares together with their c.i.f. value 
imported under Open General Licence during the 
preceding year. This declaration should be furnished 
in duplicate; and one copy thereof will be sent by the 
licensing authority to the sponsoring authority con¬ 
cerned for necessary check/information. 

Supplementary Licences 

82(1). Actual Users (Industrial) whose require¬ 
ments of imported raw-materials, components, con¬ 
sumables, consumable tools and spares cannot be fully 
met under the provisions for Open General Licence, 
may apply for grant of supplementary licences. 

(2) Applications may be submitted in the pres¬ 
cribed form and manner laid down in Chapter V of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985-88, through the sponsoring authorities as per pro¬ 
cedure laid down in sub-para (3) below to the CCIE| 
regional licensing authority wilhin the area of whose 
jurisdiction the factory of the applicant is located. 
However, an undertaking having factories located at 
more than one place, may, in its option, submit a con¬ 
solidated application, for all its requirements, to the 
regional licensing authority within whose jurisdiction 
its owd Registered/Head Office is situated, 

(3) Applications for supplementary licences will 
be considered only on the recommendation of the 
concerned sponsoring authorities and, therefore, should 
he routed through them. This should be accompanied 
by the list of items and value of each item specifically 
sought to be imported. The reasons for additional 
or new requirements of raw materials, components, 
consumables, consumable tools, or spares should be 
clearly set out together with the unutilised value of 
each of the licences in hand as on the date ol the 
application. Any other information which the appli¬ 
cant would himself like to present in regaid to his 
export performance, pi eduction programme in hand, 
specml requirements of any items for particular end 
products, stocks m hand and in the pipe line etc., for 
the purposes of proper appreciation of his application, 
may also be sent. 

f4) Actual Users (Industrial), who came into 
exhtencp under ffie earlier licensing periods but had 
small or no consumption of imported raw-materials, 



26 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


components and consumables in any of the two pre¬ 
ceding financial years can also apply for supplementary 
licences, in accordance with the policy laid down. 

(5) Actual Users will be required to maintain a 
separate account of consumption of the raw-materials 
imported against supplementary licences. 

83. Applications for iron and steel items can be 
made separately from those for other items subject to 
the provisions made in Para 82 above or the list with 
their item-wise value of iron and steel items t 0 be 
imported should be given separately with the appli¬ 
cation for supplementary licences made under Para 82 
above. 

Repeat Operation of Supplementary licences 

84(1). Actual Users (Industrial) who exported 
at least 25% of their production of select products 
(vide Appendix 16) in any of the two previous finan¬ 
cial years, subject to a minimum of Rs. 5.0 lakhs in 
f.o.b. value, or industrial units which exported select 
products of atleast Rs. 1.0 crore in f.o.b. value in 
any of the two previous financial years, and who 
obtained supplementary licences for the preceding 
licensing year will be allowed during the 
licensing year a repeat operation of the same licence, 
for the same value and the same items excluding items 
appearing in Appendix 2 with an additional period 
of shipment of 18 months available for utilisation of 
repeat value. For their eligibility to this facility, the 
Actual User concerned will be required to obtain 
Export Performance Certificate bom the Export Com¬ 
missioner in the Office of the CCI&E, New Delhi in 
the manner laid down in Chapter XIV.’Alter obtaining 
such certificates, they should approach the licensing 
authority concerned for endorsement of their supple¬ 
mentary licence for the preceding licensing year for 
the purpose of repent operation. The additional 
period of 18 months for shipment in such cases will 
commence from the dat e the licence is endorsed by 
the licensing authority. 

(2) The supplementary licences referred to in sub¬ 
para (1) above, for utilisation of their repeat value, 
will also be valid for direct imports of canalised items’ 
appearing in Appendix 5 Part-A and required by the 
umt as raw material in its factory, for a value not 
exceeding 25 per cent of the 'repeat’ value of the 
licence subject to a maximum of Rs. 1.0 lakh within 
the overall “repeat” value of the licence. 

(3) For their additional requirements, if any, such 
units can apply for supplementary licences in the 
normal course under para 82 above. 


Industrial units exporting 50 per cent or more of their 
production 

85. (1) Actual Users (Industrial) who exported at 
least 50 per cent of their production of select products 
(vide Appendix 16) in any of the two previous finan¬ 
cial years, and obtained Export Performance Certifi¬ 
cate from the Export Commissioner in the office of 
the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New 
Delhi will be eligible to repeat operation of their sup- 

- plementary licences issued for the preceding licensing 
year in the manner laid down under para 84 above 
but in their case the value limit for direct import of 
canalised items as referred in sub-para 84(2) shall be 
Rs. 2 lakhs. 

(2) For their further requirements, if any, such 
Actual Users may submit their applications through 
the sponsoring authority. 

Government Departments, Departmenfally-run Under¬ 
takings and Public Sector Enterprises 

86. Facilities for import of raw materials, com¬ 
ponents, consumables etc. by Government Depart¬ 
ments, Departmentally-run Undertakings and Public 
Sector Enterprises are given in Chapter VII of this 
Book. 

Ship-building Industry 

87. The facilities available to Actual Users (Indus¬ 
trial) for import of raw* materials, components, con¬ 
sumables including consumable tools and spares will 
also be available to the Industrial undertakings en¬ 
gaged in ship building for the manufacture/repair of 
ships. However, in respect of electronics items when 
imported under OGL the clearance of the Department 
of Electronics, as required under the policy would be 
obtained and produced to the customs authority at the 
time of import. 

Ship repairs/Ship stores 

88(1). Ship repairing companies which belong to the 
category of Actual Users (Industrial) will be eligible to 
obtain (supplementary) licences on the basis of foreign 
exchange actually earned from ship repairs. Licences 
will be granted for the imported items used in the ship 
repairs, on the basis of written declaration with 
necessary details given by the Chief Executive of the 
applicant, limited to the foreign exchange earned 
through ship repairs. The applicant should attach 
a bank certificate, indicating the earning of foreign 
exchange through ship repairing, to his application. 



STF'cT 37 <.N4<S : STTTSrnTT 


27 


[wr I—ris i] 

: i t St „p repairing units, regritui-u wnii ta Am 
G ‘,v’ a I cf Shipping, engaged in the icnaii ' i eean 
g„i / vo Is, whether Indian or feiJ .t, - v.-urk- 

L j i.i a customs-bonded premises, w n - 1 V-ble 

to import capital goods, components, i.iw ^.’uis, 
cunumables and spares under UGl, for u>*. 'in 
their ship repairing work. The pay men. of iniuoms 
duty on such imports would be governed by the 
Customs law. 

(3) Provisions for import of spares by Ship f repair¬ 
ing Companies/units and workshops engaged in ship 
repairing are also given in Chapter VI of this Book. 

Electronics Industry 

89(1). Raw materials, components and consumables 
which are covered under Open General Licence for 
Actual Users (Industrial), subject to “Actual User” 
condition, can also be imported under OGL by units 
(whether SSI or large scale) engaged in the Electronics 
Industry', in accordance with the policy and the 
conditions laid down. 

(2) Applications for supplementary licences can 
be made by such units in accordance with the normal 
policy and procedure laid down. However, in respect 
of certain end-products, the Development Commi 1 inner 
(SSI), New Delhi, in consultation with the Department 
of Electronics, approves phased manufacturing prog¬ 
ramme of SSI units engaged in or taking up manufac¬ 
ture of those end-products. Suitable guidelines in this 
regard are issued to the State Directors of Industry by 
the DC(SSI), New Delhi/Department of Electronics, 
New Delhi. In such cases, applications for supple¬ 
mentary licences will be recommended by the spon¬ 
soring authority in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of approved phased manufacturing prog¬ 
ramme. 

Loan licensees 

90(1). In the case of pharmaceutical units, the loan 
licensees under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, 
who are permuted to get their drugs processed by 
other factories licensed under the said Act, will be 
eligible to get Actual User licences in their own names 
for import of raw materials required by them. Ac¬ 
cordingly :— 

(a) such loan licensees will be eligible to import 
their raw materials under Open General 
Licence in the same manner as Actual Users 
Hi lustrial); 

fb) they can obtain supplementary licences for 
import of raw' materials and consumables 
unrbi the provisions made in this policy for 


the grant of supplementary licences to Actual 
Users (Industrial); 

(c) they can obtain raw materials from the 
canalising agencies concerned in the same 
manner as Actual Users (Industrial); 

(d) loan licensees are not permitted to import 
consumables under Open General Licence. 
Their requirements in this regard can be met 
through the system of supplementary 
licensing. 

(2) Import licences issued to loan licensees will not 
bear the condition regarding utilisation of raw materials 
and consumables in the factory of the licensee. A suit¬ 
able endorsement will be made on such licences per¬ 
mitting the loan licensees to get their goods processed 
in other factories licensed under the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940. 

(3) The new units of loan licensees can apply for 
import of raw materials and consumables under the 
provisions made in this policy for Actual Users (In¬ 
dustrial). 

(4) Actual Users (Industrial), who manufacture 
goods on behalf of loan licensees, shall not include the 
consumption of imported inputs on that account in 

. their consumption statement, while claiming supple¬ 
mentary licences for their own production needs.- 

New/Proposed Units 

91(1) Under this policy, new units will be those 
which come into regular production on or after 
1 st April of the licensing year. 

(2) It is expected that new/proposed units will be 
able to meet their requirements of raw materials, 
components and consumables etc. from indigenous 
sources and/or under Open General Licence. 
However, where- import of an item appearing in 
Appendices 2 Part B and 3 for a small amount is 
considered essential even to begin with, such new/ 
proposed units, on the basis of the recommendations 
made by the concerned sponsoring authority, will be 
eligible to get licences covering their requirements 
for twelve months in respect of the items appearing 
in Appendices 2 Part B and 3. The maximum value 
of any such licence in the case of small scale units 
will be Rs. 50,000. 

(3) Where an Actual User (Industrial) is granted 
a new Licence or Registration Certificate for the 
manufacture of a new product in the same undertaking 
or has been approved for manufacture of a new 



28 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


model (as distinct from a new product) iu the same 
undertaking, he may use the supplementary licences 
aheedy available (o him to proceed with the new 
production, afLr getting such new end-product 
•ndorsed on the licence on the recommendation of the 
sponsoring authority. However, if for the purpose of 
proceeding with the manufacture of the new article, 
the Actual User (Industrial) .has to instal additional 
Capital Goods or is in need of raw materials, com¬ 
ponents, oi consumables, which me not covered by 
the licences held by him already, he may apply for 
supplementary licences in accordance with the 
prescribed procedures. 

(4) For tlieir additional requirements, new/ 
proposed units can apply for supplementary licence in 
accordance with the prescribed procedure, 

92(1). In the case of proposed units, licences will 
be issued only after the sponsoring authority has 
certified that the applicant has made firm arrangements 
for laud/preraiscs, power and water supply and also 
the plant, machinery and equipment required foi his 
production. Licences will be limited to 12 months 
requirements as assessed by the sponsoring authority. 
In the case of small scale units, licences will be limited 
to Rs. 50,000 maximum and the first licence 
will be issued in their favour through the State 
Industrial Development Corporation or State Financial 
Corporation, as desired by the applicant, to enable 
such Corporation to ensure proper use of the imported 
material. Alternatively, if the applicant wants a 
licence in bis own name, he should furnish a bond 
and bank guarantee for 25 pci cent of the value of 
the actual impons, at the time of clearance. The 
bond will be discharged only after the sponsoring 
amthority has certified that the unit has properly 
utilised the imported material. The form of bond 
to be furnished by the proposed units has been given 
•n Appendix V of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985-88. 

(2) The condition that a proposed unit should 
obtain its first licence through the. State Industrial 
Development Corporation or State Financial Corpora¬ 
tion, or alternatively, furnish a bond or bank guarantee 
for 25 per cent of the value cf actual imports at the 
time of clearance, as laid down in sub-para (1) will 
also apply to the import of raw materials, components 
and consumables under Open General Licence. 
Therefore, the sponsoring authorities, while issuing 
registration ccrtificaLs to proposed units, should 
clearly mark the ragistration certificate with the words 
“proposed uniL" at the top, 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


(3) In the case of ‘Proposal Units’ where regular 
production has started and permanent, registration 
number has ben allotted to that unit by the spon¬ 
soring authority, tire condition of a bond and bank 
guarantee, referred to in sub-paras (1) and (2) above, 
shall not apply. 

Special facilities for industries set up in Backward 
Areas or by graduates/diploma holders in professional 
subjects or by ex-servicemen/persons belonging to 
scheduled castes*/scheduled tribes. 

93. Tn these cases, the maximum value of the 
licence shall be Rs. 75,000 in respect of new or 
proposed small scale units instead of the normal 
Rs. 50,000 referred to in sub-para 91(2) above 
(other conditions applicable thereto being the same). 
They will also be eligible for preferential treatment 
in the matter of canalised items as provided in 
Chapter IV of this Book. The list of Backward 
Areas to which tills facility applies is given in 
Appendix V of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985-88. 

SPECIAL PROVISIONS 

Import of Components by DGTD Units/Textile 
Machinery Manufacturing Units subject to phased 
Manufacturing Programme 

94(1), Impoit of components by DGTD units 
and units registered with the Textile Commissioner 
for Textile Machinery items will be regulated in 
conformity with the approved phased manufacturing 
programme pertaining to the unit concerned, The 
special procedure in this regard is contained here¬ 
under. 

Import of Components by DGTD/Textile Machinery 
Manufacturing Units under Open General Licence 

(2) DGTD units and Textile Machinery manufac¬ 
turing units desiring to import components under 
Open General Licence will be required to obtain prior 
clearance from the DGTD/Textile Commissioner, as 
the case may be. 

(3) Such DGTD units and textile machinery 
manufacturing units should send a list of components 
sought to be imported under Open General Licence 
during the licensing year, giving clearly the description 
cf each component and their number. 'Hie list should 
be sent under Registered Post (AD) to DGTD 
(Import and Export Policy Cell), Udyog Bhavan, 
New Delhi, or delivered personally at the counter in 



uTOf TTTwran srcrraR’i 


29 


[wt T—#r 1 ] 


the DGTD office, Udyog Bhavan, New Dellii against 
acknowledgement bearing the date of receipt in the 
»GTD or to the Textile Commissioner, New Central 
Government Offices Building, New Marine Lines, 
Church Gate, Bombay-400020, us the case may be. 

(4) The DGTD/Textile Commissioner will 
scrutinise the list with reference to the phased 
manufacturing programme of the concerned unit and 
allow those items of components which are in 
conformity with the <mplementation of the phased 
manufacturing programme. The list of components 
thus cleared by the DGTD/Textile Commissioner will 
be attested by them. The officer attesting the list will 
also put down his seal below his signature. The list 
attested by the DGTD/Textile Commissioner will be 
sent to the unit concerned, which should be presented 
at the time of clearance of components through the 
customs under Open Genrcal Licence during the 
licensing year if the import is otherwise covered by 
OGL and conforms to other conditions laid down in 
the relevant import policy. 

(5) Where the Actual User docs not receive the 
list of components duly attested by the DGTD/ 
Textile Commissioner within 30 days of the date on 
which the list was received in the DGTD, Textile 
Commissioner’s office, it will be open to him to get the 
goods cleared through the customs on the basis of the 
list dial was given to die DGTD/Textile Commissioner 
for attestation, without waiting further for die DGTD/ 
Textile Commissioner’s attestation. In such a case, 
the list of items presented by the Actual User to the 
customs authority should bear a clear certiheate 
thereon signed by the Director, proprietor oi partner 
of the actual user concerned or the office bearer where 
the actual user is a co-operative society or an associ¬ 
ation, to the effect that the list, in question, was 
received in the DGTD/Textile Commissioner's Office 
on (date to be given) and the same duly attested by 
the DGTD/Textile Commissioner has not been receiv¬ 
ed till (date to be given). The customs authorities will 
then allow clearance of the items appearing in the list 
under Open General Licence in this Book, if the im¬ 
port is otherwise covered by OGL and conEorms to 
other conditions laid down in the relevant import 
policy. 

Import of Components by DGTD Units and Textile 
Machinery Manufacturing Units under Flexibility Pro¬ 
visions 

(6) The List Attestation Procedure detailed above 
will also apply to import of components under flex 1 - 
bility provisions such as para 204 of this Book by the 


DGTD units and I extile Machinery Manufacturing 
Units which aie or have been subject to phased manu- 
tacturing programme. The customs will allow clear¬ 
ance of such components undei flexibility provisions 
in accordance wilh the List Attestation Procedure laid 
down, if the import is otherwise in order and in con¬ 
formity with the various provisions in the relevant 
import policy. 

(7) Where a DGTD unit and Textile Machinery 
Manufacturing Unit importing components under 
Open Genera] Licence or under flexibility provisions 
is not or has not been subject to any phased manu¬ 
facturing programme, a declaration to this effect should 
be given on the relevant Bill of Entry or any other 
document prescribed by rules, at the time of clearance 
of goods through the customs. In their case, the 
List Attestation Procedure will not apply. 

(8) The List Attestation Procedure will not apply 
to all small scale units and large scale units (other 
than those registered with DGTD and Textile 
Commissioner) for import of components under OGL 
or against supplementary licences or under flexibility 
provisions. This procedure will also not apply to the 
import of electronic components both for DGTD 
units and other units. 

Imports of Components by DGTD Units and Textile 
Machinery Manufacturing Units for Export Produc¬ 
tion 

(9) A manufacturer-exporter requiring to impurt 

components for the manufactuie of machinery/ 

equipment for expoit production can apply for an 
Advance Licence under the Duty Exemption Scheme 
in the form and manner laid down in Appendix 19 
Of this Book. The provisions oi the phased manmuc- 
turing programme will not be relevant in such cases. 

(10) A manufacturer-exporter requiring to import 

components for the manufactuie of machinery/ 

equipment for expoit production can also apply for 
Imprest licence in accordance with the presciibed 
policy and the procedures laid down. The applications 
in such cases should be accompmicd by a certificate 
of a professional independent Chartered Accountant 
(or Chief Technical Officer incharge of production) 
to the effect that the components to be imported are 
required in the rnonffactuie of the machinery/ 
equipment to be exported. The certificate should 
give the names of components to be imported, with 
their quantity and value itemwise, and the description 
of the product to be exported and its f.o.b. value 
lhe provisions of the phased manufacluring programme 
will not be relevant in such cases. 



[Part 1—Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


50 


(11) List Attestation Procedure referred to in 
sub-paras (1) to (10) above will also apply to the 
units for which the phased manufacturing programme 
is over, in the same way as the units in whose case 
the phased manufacturing programme is still current. 
However, in their case, the import of components 
shall be of the same level as imports alldwed to the 
concerned unit in the final year of the phased manu¬ 
facturing programme. 

ACTUAL USERS (NON-INDUSTRIAL) 

95. Import of items other than spares and Capital 
Goods —Actual Users (Non-Industrial) may also apply 
for licences in respect of their other essential reqube- 
ments, to the concerned licensing authorities, on the 
basis of the recommendation of the Directors of 
Industries concerned—or of the concerned other 
Government authorities, if any, as advised in writing 
by the Directors of Industries. The clearance of the 
Department of Electronics wofild, however, be required 
for import of any electronics item including facsimile 
equipment for a value of Rs. 5 lakhs or more and 
marine electronics equipment and parts thereof irres¬ 
pective of the value. The sponsoring authority will 
in such cases obtain the clearance of the Depaitment 
of Electronics before recommending the application 
for licence. Similarly, before recommending an item 
appearing in Appendices 2 Part-B, 3 and S, the 
sponsoring authority will obtain clearance of the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. 

R&D Units 

96. Any Research and Development unit, other 
scientific or research laboratory, any institution cf 
higher education or a hospital, rou<gni cd l_> the 
Central or a State Government, will be eligible to 
import its requirements of raw materials, components, 
consumables, and spares (but not consumer goods, 
howsoever described and office machines) under Open 
General Licence (subject to the Actual User con¬ 
dition) . 

Industrial X-ray films/Graplik Art films. 

97. (1) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) requiring to 
import industrial X-ray films, graphic art films and 
drawing reproduction films, for their own professional 
use, may apply for import Licence to the regional 
licensing authority concerned through the State Director 
of Industries. Such applications will be considered 
in consultation with Dhectorate General of Technical 
Development (Import & Expoit Policy Cell), New 
Delhi. 


Servicing Units 

(2) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) working as 
jobbing/icpair/scrvicing units including servicing of 
c -mayor belt systems, and requuing splicing materials 
and other items for cold vulcanising and repairs, of 
conveyor belts and other allied jobs, may be granted 
import licences to meet their requirements in respect 
of items not manufactured in the country in consulta¬ 
tion with the DGTD. The value of the licence will be 
determined having regard to the size of jobs undertaken 
in the previous three years. Applications should be 
made to the regional licensing authorities concerned 
through the DGTD (Import & Export Polidy Cell), 
Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. 

(3) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) eligible for an 
import licence under this provision may also be 
granted licence on repeat basis once for the same value 
and items for which they obtained a licence in the 
previous year; subject to a maximum value ceiling of 
Rs. 1.0 lakh (cif). Applications for a higher value 
should be made through the DGTD. 

(4) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) who are not 
covered by the definition laid down in sub-para 7(4) 
o[ this policy, but who need to import essential 
requirements for carrying out their business, trade or 
profusion, whether for the purpose of gain or not, 
may cLo apply for import licences through the State 
Director of Industries or other concerned Government 
authorities. Such applications should be addressed 
only to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi. 

Substitution of import content by indigenous materials 

98. Details regarding substitution of import content 
by indigenous materials are given in Chapter VIH of 
this Book. 

Facilities for import of raw materials, components 
and consumables by Non-resident Indians/persons of 
Indian origin returning to India for permanent settle¬ 
ment. 

99. Non-resident Indians/persons of Indian origin 
who are returning to India for permanent settlement 
and they undertake to set up a new industry which 
conforms to the Government industrial policy in force 
or participate in the expansion or diversification of an 
existing unit within the framework of industrial policy; 
or they wish to set up a servicing unit, will be allowed 
to import raw materials, components, consumables 
and spares under this policy for meeting the require¬ 
ments of three years (one year at a time), subject to a 



[WT I—rfr l] 


*frtXXTf <1 XTX: STHrafOT 


31 


maximum of Rs. 5 lakhs in value for each year, pro¬ 
vided such raw materials, components, consuirbles 
and spares are purchased out qf the applicant’s fc dm 
exchange eatmings abroad. This facility w.U n ~ 
available in cases where the machinery is not ir. e * 
from abroad but purchased indigenously. Tin c i. > 
also be no objection in entertaining mo.e than one 
application under this provision provided the total 
value of such imports is within the overall prescribed 
limit of Rs. 5 lakhs. For their requirements from the 
fourth year onwards, they should apply as per the 
normal policy applicable from time to time, unless, in 
their own interest, they wish to switch over to the 
normal policy any time eailier. Under this provision, 
import of canalised items and items in Appendix 2 
will not be allowed. Also, in respect of items appear¬ 
ing in Appendix 3, prior clearance of DGTD would 
be necessary. 

100. (1) Non-Resident Indians/persons of Indian 
origin who are allowed to import raw materials, com¬ 
ponents, consumables and spares under the provisions 
made in para 99 above will be allowed to import these 
items for meeting their first 12 months’ requirements, 
under Open General Licence, subject to a maximum 
of Rs. 5 lakhs in value, provided the items imported 
are purchased out of the importer’s earnings/resources 
abroad and do not involve any remittance from India. 
For items appearing in Appendix 3 of the import 
policy, prior clearance from DGTD si. ” be obtained 
and produced to the Customs authority at the time of 
import. Under this provision, import of canalised 
items and items in Appendix 2 will not be allowed. 
While importing under OGL, the importer shall furnish 
the following declaration to the Customs :— 

(i) The imported raw materials etc. shall be 
used in the industry being set up by the 
importer in India. 

(ii) The industry in which the imported raw 
materials etc. shall be used, will not have 
a total capital investment in plant and 
machinery of a value more than the upper 
limit fixed for small scale industries, in para 
7(5) of Import and Export Policy (Vol. I) 
lor 1985-88. 

(iii) The imported raw materials etc. have been 
purchased out of importer’s eatnings/resour¬ 
ces abroad, and does not involve any remit¬ 
tance from India. 


(iv) The import shall Le caoject to 'Actual 
User’ conu.^on i. J. other conditions as 
applicable to non--eJi -nt Indians under the 
provisions of the import policy in force. 

(v) Within ’ .fee irmntl _ oi the date of clearance 
from tl e. < (-...ton/, tile impoiter shall inform 
about *1 v ; c: t of the raw materials etc., 

in que c the Director of Industries 

of the 3m - Li which the raw materials etc. 
shall be used. (In the case of import of 
electronics items, tiie intimation should be 
sent to the Deptt. of Electronics, Lok Nayak 
Bhavan, New Delhi with a copy to the con¬ 
cerned Director of Industries). 

(2) For the import of (i) raw materials, compo¬ 
nents, consumables and spares for the second and third 
year, and (ii) other items] as permissible under these 
provisions, the applicants will be required to obtain 
import licences. 

(3) In cases where the Non-resident Indian/person 
of Indian origin desires to 1 obtain a Customs Clearance 
Permit in respect of items which are otherwise allowed 
for import under Open Genetal Licence, with a view 
to availing of concessional rate of duty under ‘Project 
Import’ facility, wherever eligible, he may apply for 
issue of CCP. 

(4) Applications for irhport of raw materials com¬ 
ponents, consumables and spares should be made in 
the form specifically prescribed for this purpose in the 
Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88 till 
such time the applicant Witches over to the normal 
policy applicable to Actual Users. These applica¬ 
tions should be made to Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI), Department of Industrial Development, 
Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi. 

(5) Applications for the grant of industrial licence 
in the prescribed form IL duly filled in with 14 spare 
copies and proposal for foreign collaboration will 
also be considered by the Special Approvals Com¬ 
mittee (NRI). Every proposal so received from a 
non-resident Indian/persbn of Indian origin will be 
considered on a composite basis ineltiding issue of 
industrial licences, where necessary. Government’s 
decision will be communicated to the applicant within 
a period of 45 days. 

(6) The industrial units concerned (i* they we 
new) will be required to get themselves registered witti¬ 
the sponsoring authorities concerned, exceot in cases 
referred to in sub-paras (3) and (4) above, yvitiun 




32 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


a period of one year from the date of import of 
Capital Goods, in accordance with the policy laid 
down. 

Special Scheme for Electronics Industry 

101. Import of raw materials, components, consum¬ 
ables and spares to meet the first 12 months’ requiie- 
ments of the unit, set up under the Special Scheme for 
Electronics Industry, as referred to in Para 49 in 
Chapter III above, can be allowed under Open General 
Licence, purchased out of the foreign exchange earn¬ 
ings abroad of the concerned non-resident Indian/ 
person of Indian origin except that items appearing in 
Appendices 2 Part B and 3 of Import Policy, 1985-88, 
would require prior clearance from the Department of 
Electronics in case the value exceeds Rs. 5 lakhs, and 
such clearance will have to be produced to the customs 
authority at the time oi import. From the second 
year onwards, the requirements of raw materials, com¬ 
ponents, consumables, and spares of these units will 
be met as per tire normal import policy. 

Import of Iron, Steel and Ferro Alloy Items 

102. (1) The import policy fur iron, steel and 
ferro alloy items wifi be the same in the ease of Actual 
Users (Industrial i as that applicable to non-hon and 
steel items. Tlie lists of Restricted and Limited per¬ 
missible items are given in Appendices 2 Part B aad 
3 Part-B respectively. The list of Canalised items 
appeals in Appendix 5 Part A. 

(2) Applications for supplementary licence should 
be made through the sponsoring authority concerned, 
with all the details ol the nature laid down for nou- 
iron and steel items, The procedure for their riisjKisal 
will be laid down oy the Cluef Controller of imports 
and Exports or. the advice ol the Depaitment of bfi-el. 
New Delhi. 

103. All items of iron, steel and fenro slips to be 
imported urnies the po’icy should be of p.i.n: quality 
only, except in cu.se of items individual!, appearing 
otherwise in Appendices 2 Part-B. 3 Part-B 5 i’art-A 
and 6. in case ol any doubt whether in .tern of pat lo¬ 
cular specification/siiv, etc. is, for the pupc-sv u f 
making an apphewion, covcied within tin, dvicnptiun 
contained >n any of the entries in the Appendices 
or can he imported .‘gainst a licence or unji i Open 
General Licc’cv, the importer/applicant m y $.vk 
clarification in advance from the Department of Mvel, 
Udyng Bhavan, New Delhi. This would include queries 
as to whether material required hy m; Actual User 
(Industrial! is rnciting scrap or not Tim te-i urinology 


and definition for iron, steel and ferro-alloy items are 
in accordance with those appearing in the Customs 
Tariff Act, 1975, unless otherwise indicated in 
Chapter II. 

104. Applications from Actual Users (Non-Indus¬ 
trial) for iron, steel and ferro alloy items will be con¬ 
sidered on merits by the concerned licensing authority 
in consultation with the Iron and Steel Controller. 

105. All importers of iron and steel, ferro alloys 
and ferrous scrap shall, invariably on receipt of 
shipping document, report the details of import to the 
Iron and Steel Controller, Calcutta giving siecifi- 
cations, quantity imported against each specification, 
talue (c.i.f., f.o.b., c&f, c.e.c.f.o. as the case may be) 
and the end use for which the import is made. 


CHAPTER VI 
IMPORT OF SPARES 
Open General Licence 

106. Import of spares other than those included 
in Appendices '2 Part B, 3 Part A, S and 10 will be 
allowed under Open General Licence by Actual Users, 
subject to ‘Actual User’ and other conditions laid 
down 

107(1). Spares have been divided into the following 

two categories :— 

fi) Permissible spares i.e., the items other than 
those appearing individually in Appendices 2, 
3 Part-A, 8 or 10; and 

(ii) Restricted’ spares i.e. items appearing 
individually in Appendices 2, 3 Part-A 
or 10. 

(2) The following items will also be treated as 
permissible spares ; — 

(a) Reaction flask and reaction vessels of 
industrial glass of capacity 100 Lt. and 
above, when required to be imported as 
replacement for an industrial glass reaction 
equipment; 

(b) Distillation stills and heat exchangers made 
of industrial glass with diameter 6" and 
•bove; and 



OTUI TTTTWff: srattlTtW 


33 


[itptI— rf* 1] 


(c) Heat exchangers or condensors made of 
industrial glass of diameter 15.24 ems and 
above when required as replacement in stills 
with rectifying columns made of industrial 
glass of 7.62 ems diameter and above. 

Import of permissible spares 

108(1). Actual Users (both Industrial and Non- 
Industrial) will be permitted to import under Open 
General Licence permissible spares which are required 
by them for operation and maintenance of the capital 
goods, including accessories, ancillary equipment, 
control and laboratory equipment and safety appliances, 
installed or in use by them as on 1st April of the 
licensing year. 

(2) Private companies operating aircrafts and those 
engaged in aerial spraying of crops as are covered 
by the definition of Actual Users (Non-Industrial) 
can also import permissible spares for maintenance 
of their aircrafts, under Open General Licence. 

(3) The facility for import of permissible spares 
under OGL available to Actual Users can also be 
availed of by shipping companies for operation and 
maintenance of their ships. 

(4) Actual Users (Industrial) will furnish to the 
customs authorities, at the time of clearance a 
declaration giving particulars of their Industrial 
Licences/Registration Certificates, as appropriate, and 
solemnly affirming that such Licence/Registration his 
not been cancelled or withdrawn or otherwise made 
inoperative. In cases where separate Registration 
number is not allotted by the sponsoring authority 
concerned, the importer shall produce other evidence 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities that he 
is registered as an industrial unit. The Actual User 
will also furnish a declaration to the customs 
authority that the spates imported are those required 
for operation and maintenance of the machinery 
installed or in use by him as on 1st April of the 
licensing year, as referred to in sub-para (1) above. 

(5) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) shall, at the 
time of cleaiauce of the goods, furnish to the cusLoms 
authorities the original or a photostat copy of the 
(currently valid) Registration Certificate or licences 
held by them under the Shops and Establishments 
Act, Cinematographic Act, or appropriate local 
statute 


Import of restricted spares 

109(1). Actual Users (both Industrial and Non- 
Industrial) may apply for a licence for import of 
‘restricted’ spare at the rate of two per cent of the 
c.i.f. value of all the imported plant, machinery and 
equipment and/or one per cent of Lhe purchase price 
of any indigenous plant machinery and equipment, 
having imported components, installed or in use by 
them as on 1st April of the licensing year. 

(2) Licences for ‘restricted’ spares will be issued 
with the general description—“Restricted spares 
required for operation and maintenance of the capital 
goods installed or used by the licence-holder, 
including spares of ancillary equipment, control and 
laboratory equipment and safety appliances”. The 
customs authorities will allow clearance of the imports 
on a declaration that these imported ‘restricted’ spares 
are required for operation and maintenance of the 
capital goods installed or used by the Actual User 
in his iactory/establishment/institution. 

(3) Imports made of a single ‘restricted’ spare 
should not exceed Rs. 1.5 lakhs. For this purpose 
the ‘single’ item shall have the same meaning as defined 
in Chapter I of this Book. 

(4) In respect of item appearing in Appendix 10, 
the maximum value limit of Rs. 1.5 lakh fixed for a 
single item of ‘restricted’ spares will not apply if 
not more than one piece each of them is imported, 
and the import is within the overall value of the 
licence meant for import of ‘restricted’ spares. 

(5) Actual Users whose requirements of ‘restricted’ 
spares cannot be met under this provision may apply 
for supplementary licences under para 82. 

Import of spares for after-sales services 

110(1). Actual Users (Industrial) will be eligible 
to get licences calculated at 1,5 per cent of the ex- 
factory value of production or 2 per cent of c.i.f. value 
of imported components, whichever is higher, during 
the last three financial years, for import of spares 
needed for the purpose of providing wararnty coverage 
or ufter-sales service (whether free of cost or at a 
price) to their customers. Only such spares shall be 
permitted as were/are used by them as components 
of the said items at the time of manufacture. 
Applications should be made to the regional licensing 
authorities concerned, accompanied by a certificate 
from a Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company 
Secretary who is not a partner or a director or an 
employee of tbe applicant firm or it* associate, as to 



34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


the eligible value. Actual Users CIndustrial) engage! 
in the industries listed in Appendix 9 only will be 
eligible to apply for import licence under this 
sub-para. 

(2) Manufacturers of consumer electronics goods 
will also be eligible to get licences for spares calculat¬ 
ed at 1.5 per cent of the ex-factory value of produc¬ 
tion during the last three financial years for providing 
warranty coverage or after-sales service, subject to 
the conditions laid down in sub paras (1) and (3) to 
(5) of this para. 

(3) The maximum value of the licence issued 
under sub-paras (1) and (2) above will be Rs. 25 lakhs 
(or Rs. 50 lakhs for Actual Users engaged in manu¬ 
facture of power boilers or Turbo Generators of capa¬ 
city 60 MW and above and Earth Moving Equip¬ 
ments). Additional requirements, if any, will be con¬ 
sidered on application for supplementary licences made 
to the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New 
Delhi, through the sponsoring authority concerned. 

(4) Actual Users (Industrial) engaged in Industries 
other than those listed in Appendix 9 may apply to 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi 
through the sponsoring authority concerned, if they 
need to import spares for after-sales service, giving 
full justification. 

(5) Names of Actual Users (Industrial) receiving 
licences for import of spares under this provision will 
be compiled and a watch kept on the standard of ser¬ 
vice rendered by them to the customers. 

Import of Emergency spares 

111(1). Applications for grant of licences fox 
import of emergency spares required in the case of 
an actual break-down or imminent break-down of 
production machinery will be considered from any 
Actual User as and when received. Such licences for 
emergency spares will be granted by the licensing 
authority concerned for the value applied for, on the 
basis of a declaration from the Chief Executive i.e., 
Chairman/Managing Director/Executive Director/ 
Managing Partner in the case of a corporate body, to 
that effect giving the broad particulars necessitating 
the emergent import. The applicant should furnish a 
list—in fair though not in exact detail—of the spates 
(and consumables, if any), sought to be impoited. 
This should be stamped by the official seal of the 
applicaut and after due attestation by the licensing 
authority, will form part of the licence to be issued 
(without going into their indigenous availability 
angle). 


[Part I— Sfc. 1] 


(2) Under this provision, applications may also be 
cumiikrcd, on merits from Actual Users (A u-Indus- 
trial) for import of emergency spaies of a machmuy 
winch is intimately connected with the daily activities 
oi the applicant. 

(3) State Electricity Boards/Projects/Undertakings 
can also avail of the facility for grant ot emergency 
spare licences. 

(4) The facility for the grant of emergency spares 
licences will also be available to departmentally-iun 
undertakings and Railways to the extent that they will 
not, m such cases, have to obtaiu indigenous clearance. 
Import licences for emergency spares in their case will, 
however, be issued within the overall foreign exchange 
released to them by Government for impoi is of raw 
materials, components, consumables and spares. 

(5) Import of capital goods as spares will not oe 
allowed under these provisions. 

Government Departments, Departmentally-run-Under- 
takings etc. 

112. Provisions for import of spares by Govern¬ 
ment Departments, Departmentally-run-Undcrtakings, 
ONGC, Oil India Ltd., Gas Authority of India Ltd., 
Bharat Gold Mines Ltd., Coal India Ltd., State 
Electricity Boards etc. are given in Chapter VII of 
this book. 

Import of Motor Vehicle spares 

113(1). Import of spares for imported motor 
vehicles or tractors will be allowed under Open General 
Licence, upto a maximum value of Rs. 5,000 for each 
imported vehicle/tractor. At the time of clearance of 
imported spares, the importer should furnish to the 
customs authorities the valid registration and other 
certificates under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 and 
also a declaration that the total imports made by him 
during the year have not exceeded Rs. 5,000 per 
imported vehicle/tractor, including the consignment to 
be cleared. This facility can also be availed of through 
registered Associations/Cooperative Societies/State 
Agro-Industries Development Corporations, as laid 
down in Chapter II of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985—88. 

(2) Persons owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles will be eligible to import permissible spares 
(i.e. spares not appearing in Appendices 2, 3 Part-A, 
8 and 10) under OGL for maintenance of their 
vehicles as Actual Users (Non-Industrial), subject 





35 


famT— ; trr x] 


to ‘Actual Users’ condition. At the time of clearance 
they will furnish to the customs authority the evidence 
in support of their owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles as on 1st April of the licensing year. 

(3) Persons owning a fleet of at least 25 motor 
vehicles made indigenously, will be allowed to import 
‘restricted’ spares on the basis of one per cent of 
the purchase value of the vehicles in their fleet as on 
1st April of the licensing year subject, however, to a 
maximum of Rs. 1.5 lakhs. State Transport Under¬ 
takings may, however, apply for their additional re¬ 
quirements any time in the course of the year. Appli¬ 
cations may be made to the regional licensing authority 
concerned, together with particulars of the operating 
fleet, and ail relevant documents, as certified by the 
Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company Secretary 
who is not a partner, a director or an employee of 
the applicant firm or its associates or by its Chief 
Executive. 

Import of spares by Indian agents of foreign 

machinery/ instruments manufacturers 

114(1). Applications for the grant of import licen¬ 
ces for spares of machinery/instruments (other than 
Metrological instruments and those mentioned in 
Appendix 8 of tin's Book, Office equipment and also 
of Computers) will be entertained from the Indian 
agents of foreign machinery/instruments manufac¬ 
turers, to enable them to import spares for stock and 
sale. The value of such licences may be calculated at 
3 per cent of the c.i.f. value of machinery/instruments 
imported by the applicant himself or imported through 
him during the previous 10 financial years, as certified 
by an independent professional Chartered Accountant. 
Import licences issued in these cases will be subject to 
the condition that (i) only spares related to the 
machinery imported by or through the agent concerned 
will be allowed, (ii) import of a single item of spares 
listed in Appendix 3 Part-A of the Import Policy shall 
not exceed Rs. 1.5 lakh in value (c.i.f.), and (iii) import 
of other items of spares will not exceed Rs. 10 lakhs 
in value (c.i.f.) per item. A single item for this purpose 
will have the same meaning as defined in Chapter I 
of this Book. Items appearing in Appendices 2 and 10 
will not be allowed under this provision. Import of 
canalised items and instruments will also not be 
allowed. Applications under this provision should 
be made to the CCI&E, New Delhi, in the prescribed 
form and manner. (Indian agents obtaining import 
licences under this provision will not be allowed to 
appoint someone else as an agent to operate the 
licence on their behalf). 


(2) Applications for the gran f of Supp'.-vnrotary 
licences for import of spares may also bo considered 
by the CCI&E, New Delhi in case's where he is 
satisfied that the value of the licence to which the 
applicant is eligible under sub-para (1) of this 
paragraph will not be adequa's to meet the require¬ 
ments. Such applications will be considered in 
consultation with the technical authorities and the 
administrative Ministries concerned. 


Import of spares for Computers 


115. Import of spa 
governed entirely by 
elude permissible or ‘: 


_res for computer systems will be 
the following provisions; they in- 
‘restricted’ spares. 


116(1). The CMC Ltd. or any other agency ap¬ 
proved by the Department of Electronics will be the 
designated procurement agencies for spares, tools and 
test equipment in respect of all computer systems 
maintained or planned to be maintained by them. 
They will procure spares, tools and test equipment in 
bulk upto a maximum value of 5 per cent per annum 
of the c.i.f. value of imported computer systems main¬ 
tained under their own responsibility or in respect of 
similar systems maintained by users who may register 
themselves with the CMC Ltd. or any other agency 
approved by the Department of Elect] onics for pro¬ 
curement of spares (these agencies ma\ set up bonded 
warehouses on the basis of understanding with manu¬ 
facturers for such systems). 


(2) All Actual Users other than those covered in 
para 47(x) in Chapter III above and sub-para (1) 
above may obtain spares on the basis of Open General 
Licence (subject to the Actual User condition) upto 
a maximum of 5 per cent per annum of the c.i.f. value 
of the imported computer systems in use by them 
without obtaining prior clearance from Department of 
Electronics. 

(3) In respect of all indigenously manufactured 
computer systems, maintained by the CMC Ltd 
or any other agency approved by the Department of 
Electronics or in-house by the users or by the indi¬ 
genous manufacturers as a part of their services to 
the users, spares upto a maximum of 2 per cent per 
annum of the sale price of the computer system, may 
be imported under Open General Licence (subject to 
the Actual User conditions), without obtaining prior 
clearance from the Department of Electronics. The 
CMC Ltd. or any other agency approved by the 
Department of Electronics or indigenous manufacturers 
with whom the users are registered for maintenance 
services and/or for supply of spares (for carrying out 



36 


THE GAZETTE OF IDNIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


in-house maintenance) can also import spares under 
OGL, on their behalf, under this provision, upto a 
maximum of 2 per cent per annum of the sale price of 
computer system. 

(4) For the purposes of sub-paras (1) and (2) 
above, the c.i.f. value of an used system purchased 
by the Actual User shall be reckoned at 48 times the 
monthly rent paid thereon immediately prior to the 
date of purchase or the purchase price of an equiva¬ 
lent new machine, whichever is lower. 

(5) Import applications to cover requirements of 
spares in excess of the limits laid down in sub-paras 
(1) to (3) above, may be considered by the licens¬ 
ing authorities concerned on the recommendation of 
the Department of Electronics, New Delhi. 

(6) Spares, tools and test equipments imported 
under the provisions made in this Chapter can be 
transferred by the concerned Actual Users to the CMC 
Ltd. or any other agency approved by the Department 
of Electronics for the purpose of pooling of resources. 

(7) Imporf of electronic spares for dedicated 
computers attached to capital equipment will be 
allowed as per the policy for import of machinery 
spares. 

(8) Spares for computers which are an integral 
part of photo composing systems will be allowed upto 
5 per cent of the cost of the photo composing machine 
without clearance of the Department of Electronics. 

(9) The above provisions will also apply to all 
Research & Development institutions, educational 
institutions, hospitals and such other organisations 
which are otherwise eligible to import their require¬ 
ments under Open General Licence. 

Import of spares against Capital Goods licences : 
Flexibility 

117. (i) Spares required, as per the advice of 
the supplier, (whether permissible or 
restricted) for the maintenance and operation 
of the capital goods concerned, may, if not 
provided for in the licence specially, be 
imported to the extent of 10 per cent of the 
value of the C.G. licence, but within its 
overall value. 

(ii) Where a licence incorporates the requisite 
spares (or “spare parts”) but without any 
list or value applicable thereto separately, 


the licence holder will have the facility pro¬ 
vided in sub-para (i) above to import spares 
upto 10% of the value thereof. 

(iii) Where the licence has been issued, without 
or with an item-wise list, setting down a 
separate value for spares (item-wise or in 
total), the said value will supersede the 
abovo mentioned limit of 10%. 

(iv) Within the value of the C.G, licence, acces¬ 
sories (or attachments) of the capital goods 
concerned and toolings required for its initial 
operation may be imported upto 10% 
thereof. 

(v) In all the above cases, the said spares and 
accessories (ox attachments) or toolings 
may be imported even after the main equip¬ 
ment has been delivered but within the 
validity of the licence. 

Shipping Companies 

118. The facility for import of permissible spares 
under Open General Licence available to Actual 
Users, can also be availed of by shipping companies 
for operation and maintenance of their ships. 

Shipbuilding Industry 

119. Industrial undertakings engaged in shipbuild¬ 
ing can import permissible spares for maintenance of 
their machinery, under Open General Licence, in 
accordance with the normal policy. 

Spares for Ship repairs/Ship stores 

120. (1) Applications for the grant of licences will 
be considered from workshops engaged in ship re¬ 
pairing for import of spares required by them for 
replacement while doing repair work. Import licen¬ 
ces will be issued on the recommendation of Director 
General of Shipping, Bombay. Applications should 
be made to the regional licensing authorities concerned 
through D.G. Shipping, In respect of ‘restricted’ 
spares involving import of more than Rs. 1.5 lakhs 
in value, per item, the licensing authority will obtain 
prior clearance of the Chief Controller of Imports 
& Exports, New Delhi. 

(2) Applications for import of spares of ships will 
be entertained from stockists approved by the Director 
General of Shipping, Bombay. Applications may be 
made to the Jt. C.C.I&E. Bombay in the prescribed 
form and manner through D.G. Shipping, Bombay. 
Import licences will be issued on the recommendations 



[kthtI— x* 1] 


<rrm qrt wi*: Muiuntr 


37 


of that Department and shall be subject to the value 
restrictions laid down in sub-para (1) above. The 
imported spares would bo meant for stock and sale. 
On the recommendation of DO Shipping, these 
stockists may also be allowed to import life saving 
and fire-fighting equipment for use in ships, for stock 
and sale. 

Import of spares for Airlines—Indian and Foreign 

121(1). Air India, Indian Airlines and other Air¬ 
lines who are members of the I.A.T.A. can import 
under Open General Licence, the spares, consumables 
(excluding any greases and lubricants covered by the 
Appendix 5 Part-B and to be supplied by Indian Oil 
Corporation to them), aircraft tyres and tubes, 
manuals, technical drawings, illustrations and other 
technical literature pertaining to the fleet of aircraft 
operated and maintained by them, and the associate 
test and training equipment. The concerned Airlines 
shall, within seven days of clearance of each such 
consignment, intimate to the Director General of Civil 
Aviation, New Delhi, the particulars of the items im¬ 
ported, the quantity and c.i.f. value thereof and shall 
also maintain a register of their inventory/utilisation 
in such manner as he may desire. All these shall be 
open for inspection by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports at any time. 

(2) In specific cases, import licenccs/CCPs may 
be issued by the CCI&E, New Delhi, on the recom¬ 
mendation of the Director General of Civil Aviation, 
New Delhi, for the import of requirements referred 
to in sub-para (1) above. 

(3) In respect of their other requirements, however, 
they should make an application to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi through 
the Director General of Civil Aviation. New Delhi. 
Licence will be granted on his recommendation only. 
Import shall not, however, be allowed in respect of 
items available from indigenous sources to Air India 
and Indian Airlines. 

122. (1) Airlines, who are not members of 
I.A.T.A., may apply for import licences/CCPs to 
meet their requirements. Such applications may be 
made to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 
New Delhi through the Director General of Civil 
Aviation, New Delhi. Import liccnccs/CCPs may 
be issued on the recommendations of D.G.C.A. 

(2) Private Companies operating aircraft and those 
engaged in aerial spraying of crops as are covered by 
the definition of Actual User (Non-industrial), can 


import permissible spares under Open General 
Licence for maintenance of their aircraft. 

(3) Import of aircraft spares can be made under 
Open General Licence, for maintenance of executive/ 
training aircrafts in both private and public sectors. 
Imports shall be subject to Actual User condition. 

(4) Applications for import of spares of aircrafts 
will be entertained from stockists approved by the 
Department of Civil Aviation, New Delhi. Applications 
may be made to the CCI&E, New Delhi in the 
prescribed form and manner through the Department 
cf Civil Aviation, New Delhi. Import licence will be 
issued on the recommendation of that Department. 
The imported spares would be meant for stock and 
sale. 

Spares for R&D Units 

123. Research and Development units, scientific or 
research laboratories, institutions of higher 1 education 
and hospitals, recognised by the Central or a State 
Government, can import without an import licence, 
their requirements of spares, both permissible and 
‘restricted’ without value limit—in terms of the 
provisions of Open General Licence applicable to them. 

Import of spares by Actual Users (Non'Industrial) 

124. Actual tJscrs (Non-Industrial), will be eligi¬ 
ble to import permissible spares required by them 
under Open General Licence, subject, however, to the 
conditions applicable thereto. In addition, for meet¬ 
ing their requirements cf ‘restricted’ spares, they will 
be eligible to get licences calculated at 2 per cent of 
the c.i.f. value of the imported plant, machinery and 
equipment and/or 1 per cent of the purchase price of 
any indigenous plant, machinery and equipment 
having imported components, in use by them as on 
1st April of the licensing year. 

Import of Spares by Workshops 

125. Workshops engaged in the repair of machi¬ 
nery, instruments and vehicles, as are covered by 
the definition of Actual User (Non-industrial) laid 
down in para 7 of this policy, may apply for * the 
grant of licences for import of spares required by 
them for replacement while doing repair work. Under 
this provision, import of those spares will be allowed 
which the Actual Users themselves can import under 
OGL as spares. 

Import of Instruments as spares 

126. The procedure regarding import of Instru¬ 
ments as spares is given in Chapter m of this Book. 



THE GAZET 
CHAPTER VII 


AZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


IMPORT BY GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, 


DEPARTMENTALLY-RE N UNDERTAKINGS 
AND PUBLIC SECTOR ENTERPRISES 

Government Departments 


evidence to this effect. Such undertakings can a,l > > 
import Capital Goods lifeted in Appendix 1 Pari-J a.. J 
Jigs, fixtures, dies and patterns, moulds (uk, d.. ig 
moulds for die-casting) and press tools a 1 ! \s 
thereof (other than those in Appendices 1 A ' >. 
2 and 3 Part A), under OGL, subject to c ..i- 
tions laid down, on the basis of foreign a. j .... ge 


127(11) (i) Government Departments, as distinct 
from departmental undertakings, can import capital 
goods, Saw materials, components, consumables and 
spares finder Open General Licence on the basis of 
the foreign exchange released to them by the 
administrative Ministry concerned. In respect of items 
in Appendices 2 Part B and 3 or Capital Goods (other 
than thpse appearing in Appendix 1 Part-B only), 
they should obtain prior clearance from the DGTD 
before (applying for release of foreign exchange. 
Where iimport of any electronic items including 
facsimile equipment for a ic.i.f. value of Rs. 5 lakhs 
or more and marine eleetrtonics equipment and parts 
irrespective of the value involved, or communication 
equipment for a value mo|re than Rs. one lakh is 
involved^ the import can b^ made only after clearance 
is giveoji by the Department of Electronics. The 
customs [authorities will allow clearance under O.G.L. 
on prodfiction of evidence to this effect. 

(ii) 'the above facility for import under Open Gen- 
ral Licence will, however, r ot be available for items in 
Appendices 1 Part A or 5. In such cases, applications 
may be Submitted to the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. Import of such 
items will be allowed only against specific import 
licences.; 


released to them by the administrative M,i ' •,/ 
Department of Economic Affairs. For imp i of > iher 
capital goods, such undertakings can .mpl f > * r 
licences on the basis of foreign excha : i . i „ nd 
indigenous clearance from DGTD and Department of 
Electronics. 

Railways 

(3) The provisions tnade in sub-ova (2) above 
will also apply to the import by R ih ays 

Electricity Boards etc. 

(4) State Electricity Boards/Pre v M T T rtE takings 

in the public sector can impoit 1 , u ’er Open 

General Licence against release of e e by 

Government in their favour. Be 1 > - i g i ei_n 
exchange release, they should ol i ns cle ir- 

ance from DGTD in respect o T spaics 

sought to be imported. Where i •> r. f sc’ e'roi <cs 
items for a c.i.f. value of Rs. 5 , , > i _ u maine 
electronics equipment and pans nit p etlve of value or 
communication equipment for a vahe more than 
Rs. one lakh is involved, the in p it can be made 
only after clearance is giv m by - Dcr i.tmcnt of 
Electronics. The customs a' 11 " is will allow 
clearance under OGL on p x' i a of evidence to 
this eflect. 


Departfiicntallv-run Under akings 


(2) ID 


t iiiein 


(non-car i' 1 i 
fl l l vt| V i ti n 

ad,r litjrahve M 

Vf rv 11 r -> ' o 
an { ' 4 1 

)(,i u>; i 
In r. XU i i" 


mn, I'xli f >kings can import 
t >n utnables and spares 
n 1 jr Open General Licence on 
> be released to them by the 
''") t, tment of Economic 
r i s : i Appendices 2 Part B 
1 enous clearance from the 
i le'ease of foreign e>change, 
n > nd>"enous cleamnce will 


be rx 'eh . v 1 n tie for release of foreign ex¬ 
change J’ here mix I < , any electronics items 1 . iidmg 
fai v'uiki equipment for a c.i.f. value of Rs. 5.0 1 ikhs or 
mme or marine electronics equipment and parts irres¬ 
pective bf value or communication equipment for a 
va u^ mine th m Rs one iakh is involved, the import 
c. i be made only after clearance is given by the 
Depaitirient of Electronicsl The customs authorities 


will all|iw clearance umjer OGL on production of 


ONGC, Oil India & Gps Author its of India I.Id. 

(5) The Oil and Natm ' Oi To m ' m has been 
allowed to import its req i X ( it i i consumer 
goods, howsoever descrilx ) in 1 r 'he Linen Genetarl 
Licence, after requisite re’ ic of f.x : 'n exchange 

and indigenous clearance 'i i the DG1D. No indi¬ 
genous clearance will i i s y for import of 

macbmery apptaiiu* in it 1 Part-B and per¬ 

missible spares Whcfre i mrt of any electronics 
items including facsimile c junnient for a c.i.f. value of 
Ps 5 ! akhs or mue or i> u e electronics equipment 

an 1 f rt, irreqcDive of t e v-'ue or common eafion 
equipment for a value of nu re than Rs. one lakh is 
involved, the impoit cm be n 'e only aftei clearance 

is given bv the D ; r n t < * EM I i o. The 

customs authont I ' , OGL 

on production of ev ukc to tn s <.!' i ] is f a ;il ty 
will also be avu'labie ap (M Jo i I 'd a i ] Gas 

\uthority of Ind a Ltd, 



[m*r I—ITf l] 


vrxu w Ttrot: aurnim 


39 


(iii) M/s. Bharat Coking Coal Lid. 

(iv) M/s. Central Cualfu.IJs Ltd. 

(v) M/s, Eastern Co.i!liv.lds Lid. 

(vi) M/s. Western Coalfields Ltd. 

(vii) M/s. Central Mine Planning & Design 

Inslilulc Ltd. 

(viii) M/s. Singaveni Collieries Company Ltd, 


(6) Tne facility available to the Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission to import its requirements under 
OGL will also be available in cases where a service 
contract has been awarded to a foreign contractor, who 
brings equipment for execution of work, provided that 

(a) import of such equipment is not to be paid for 
and (b) the ONGC undertakes that such equipment 
shall be re-exported after completion of the work. 
If the imported equipment is fitted with any item such 
as projector or camera etc., which forms its part, the 
import of such consumer durables will also be allowed 
subject to the ONGC undertaking their re-export 
along with the main equipment. Imports in such cases 

' will not require release of foreign exchange or 
indigenous clearance. This facility will also be avail¬ 
able to M/s. Oil India Ltd. and Gas Authority of India 
Ltd. 

(7) Public sector undertakings receiving on-shcre/ 
off-shore contracts from the Oil & Natural Gas Com¬ 
mission or Oil India Ltd. or Gas Authority of India 
Ltd. can import goods required by them for 
execution of such contracts, under Open General 
Licence, after thet requisite release of foreign exchange 
and indigenous clearance from the DGTD/Depart- 
ment of Electronics. 

(8) Where any on-shore/off-shore contract is 
awarded to M/s. Mazagaon Docks Ltd. or to any 
other similar undertakings in the public sector, and the 
services of foreign engincers/speciajists are engaged for 
completion of the work, the import of tools, instru¬ 
ments and equipment brought by such engineers/ 
specialists will be allowed under Open General 
Licence, provided (a) the goods, in question, are nor 
to be paid for and (b) M/s. Mazagaon Docks Ltd. etc. 
undertake that the imported tools, instruments and 
equipments shall be re-exported after completion of 
work. 

Bharat Gold Mines Ltd. 

(9) The facility available to Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission/Oil India Ltd./GAIL Tor import of their 
requirements under Open General Licence, has also 
been extended to M/s. Bharat Gold Mines Ltd., 
subject to the conditions laid down. 

Coal India etc. 

(10) The facility provided lor in sub-para (5) 
above will also be available to the following under¬ 
takings for the import of Capital Goods required by 
them :— , 

(i) M/s. Coal India Ltd. 

(ii) M/s. Neyveli Lignite Corporation Ltd. 


Defence Undertakings 

(11) (i) In the case of public sector enterprises 
under the Ministry of Defence, the following provisions 
will apply :— 

(a) They will be eligible to import raw materials, 
components and spares under Open Gene¬ 
ral Licence vide items 1, 2 and 4 of Appen¬ 
dix 6 subject t 0 the conditions laid down 
therein. 

(b) The R&D units will be eligible to import 
raw materials etc., under OGL vide item 
No. 5 and teaching aids vide item No. 7 
in Appendix 6, subject to the conditions laid 
down therein. 

(c) They will be eligible to get licences for im-. 
port of spares needed for providing warranty 
coverage or after-sales service (whether free 
of cost or at a price) to their customers, as 
provided in para 110 above. 

(d) They will be eligible to import Capital 
Goods listed in Appendix I Part-B and Jigs, 
fixtures etc. vide item No. 6 in Appendix 6, 
under OGL, subject to the . nditions laid 
down therein. 

(e) They will be eligible to import computer 
spares vide item No. 9 in Appendix 6, 
under OGL, subject to the conditions laid 
down therein. 

(f) They will be eligible to import other items 
which ‘Actual Users’ and/or ‘All persons’ 
can import under OGL in Appendix 6, and 
required by Defence enterprises as raw 
materials, components or consumables. 

(ii) The total value of imports/licences available 
under sub-para (i) above shall not exceed the foreign 
exchange allotted to each unit by the Ministry of De¬ 
fence for this purpose during the licensing year. At the 



40 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


time of clearance through the customs or while making 
an application to the licensing authority, as the case 
may be, the applicant unit shall file a declaration to 
the effect that the value of goods under clearance/ 
already cleared and the value of import licences ob¬ 
tained/applied for shall uot exceed the total amount of 
foreign exchange released for the purpose by the 
Ministry of Defence to the unit concerned. 

(iii) For their additional requirements, if any, which 
cannot be met under (i) above the units concerned 
should apply for the import licences to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned on the basis of the spe¬ 
cific/bulk release of foreign exchange by the Ministry 
of Defence, Before releasing foreign exchange the 
Ministry of Defence units concerned will obtain indi¬ 
genous clearance from the DGTD (and the Depart¬ 
ment of Electronics in respect of electronics items 
referred to in para 127 above). 

fiv) Application for import of Capital Goods 
(other than those covered under OGL) should be 
made by such units in accordance with the prescribed 
procedure on the bas<s of the specific release of foreign 
exchange by the Ministry of Defence. Before releasing 
the foreign exchange, the Ministry of Defence will 
obtain indigenous clearance from the DGTD (and the 
Department of Electronics in respect of electronics 
items referred to in para 127 above). 

Doordarshan/AIR 

(12) The Director General, Doordarshan/All 
India Radio in the Ministry of Information and Broad¬ 
casting, New Delhi may import under Open General 
Licence spares required for maintenance of T.V. 
equipment and other machinery used at Doordarshan 
Centres/Radio stations, against foreign exchange re¬ 
leased for the purpose by the administrative Ministry/ 
Department of Economic Affairs. In respect of spares 
falling in Appendices 2 Part-B and 3 Part-A prior 
clearance from DGTD should also be obtained. At 
the time of clearance through Customs, evidence re¬ 
garding release of foreign exchange covering the 
import and DGTD clearance should be produced. 

Posts & Telecommunications 

(13) Departments of Post and Telecommunications 
in the Ministry of Communications, New Delhi, may 
Import under Open General Licence spares required for 
maintenance of equipment and other machinery used 
by the Department of Posts and Department of Tele¬ 
communications against foreign exchange released for 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


the purpose by the administrative Ministry/Depart- 
ment of Economic Affairs. In respect of spares falling 
in Appendices 2 Part-B and 3 Part-A, prior clearance 
from DGTD should also be obtained. At the time of 
clearance through Customs, evidence regarding release 
of foreign exchange covering the import and DGTD 
clearance should be produced. 

Other Public Sector units 

(14) In the case of other public sector enterprises 
of the Central or State Governments, the policy and 
procedure as applicable to the private sector for import 
of raw materials, components, consumables, spares 
and capital goods would equally apply. 

(15) If a certain Government enterprise in the 
public sector is given special release of foreign ex¬ 
change by the Ministry of Finance (Department of 
Economic Affairs), and indigenous clearance for the 
Items sought to be imported has been obtained from 
the DGTD, the application for import licence based on 
this should be made to the* regional licensing authority 
concerned with necessary evidence of foreign exchange 
release and indigenous clearance. Where import of any 
electronics items including facsimile equipment for a 
c.i.f. value of Rs. 5 lakhs or more or marine electro¬ 
nics equipment and parts irrespective of the value or 
communication equipment for more than Rs. one lakh, 
is involved, the licence will be granted only after 
clearance is given by the Department of Electronics. 

(16) For emergency spares licences, separate pro¬ 
visions have been made in Chapter VI, 


CHAPTER Vm 

SPECIAL LICENSING PROVISIONS 

128. Special requirements of certain items not 
covered by the general provisions will he 'unsidered 
on the basis given in the succeeding paragraphs. 
Applications should be made to the licensing authori¬ 
ties concerned 

Import of Animals, Plants and Plant Material 

129. Import of animals, birds and reptiles for Zoos 
and Zoological Parks or for Scientific/Research pur¬ 
poses will be allowed subject to the provisions of 
Convention on International Trade in Endangered 



vnrtT <frr znrrx, surTarwr 


41 


[wtI— arr i] 


Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). The con- 
cerned Zoo or Zoological Part or Scientific/Research 
Institution will have to obtain the recommendation 
of the Chief Wild Life Warden of the Stats concerned. 
Import under this category will be subject to inspec¬ 
tion by Wild Life Preservation Department of Gov¬ 
ernment of India. 

130. Applications from breeding farms for import 
of livestock (excluding equine), pure line poultry 
stocks, frozen semen embryo, will be considered by the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, 
on the recommendation of the Ministry of Agriculture 
and Rural Development (Department of Agriculture 
and Cooperation), New Delhi, through whom they 
should be routed. 

Import of Stallions/broodmares 

131. (1) Applications for import of stallions and 
broodmares, exclusively for breeding purposes, will 
be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports & 
Exports, New Delhi. Such applications should be 
made through the Director of Animal Husbandry and 
Veterinary Services of the State. Government concern¬ 
ed. Advance copies of the application should be sent 
to (i) The Animal Husbandry Commissioner, Deptt. 
of Agriculture and Cooperation, Krisbi Bhavan, New 
Delhi; (ii) The Director Remount and Veterinary Ser¬ 
vices, West Block ITT, R. K. Puram, New Delhi and 

(iii) The Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New 
Delhi. The last date for submislon of applications will 
be 31st May of the year to which the application per¬ 
tains. Applications will be considered in consultation 
with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Develop¬ 
ment, New Delhi, and subject to the following guide¬ 
lines :— 

(i) Import of animals will be subject to the 
Health regulations in force. 

(ii) Applications will be considered only 
from stud farms which have been in existence 
for at least three years and registered with 
the Anitnal Husbandry Commissioner, De¬ 
partment of Agriculture and Cooperation, 
New Delhi. However, this period of 'hrec 
years may be relaxed on merits in individual 
cases. 

(tii) In the case of stallions, broodmares, colts 
and filJle*, the norm of 1.5 acres of land per 
animal would apply ; and In the case of 
yearlings and foals, the norm for land would 
be one acre per animal. 

58 Gl/85—4 


(iv) The c.i.f. value of a stallion to be imported 
should not exceed Rs. 5 lakhs and that of 
a broodmare Rs. 2 lakhs. 

(v) Import of broodmares may be allowed 
having regard to the imports already made, 
size and scale of of operation of the applicant 
farm, its breeding requirements and other 
relevant factors. Small stud farms having 
strength of less than 20 broodmares may 
be preferred for allowing import. Ordinarily 
not more than two broodmares will be al¬ 
lowed. In the case of stallions, import not 
exceeding one number may be considered if 
no stallion was imported in the last four 
years; this condition may be relaxed where 
necessary for reason such as infertility cr 
death of the last imported animal. 

(2) Applications for import of stallions and brood¬ 
mares for breeding purposes will also be considered 
on the basis of exports of horses made, on or after 
1st April, 1981, by registered stud farms. Under 
this provision, import may be considered for a value 
up to 40% of the amount of foreign exchange earned 
from such exports of horses. Export of horses made 
for meeting export obligation stipulated against imports 
of horses already made will not be taken into account 
for this purpose. Original bank certificate showing 
realisation of export proceeds, supported by invoices 
and shipping bills should be produced alongwith the 
applications. The last date for submission of such 
applications will be 31st March of the year to which 
the application pertains. Applications should be made 
direct to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, with copy to the Animal Husbandry Com¬ 
missioner, Department of Agriculture and Coopera¬ 
tion, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi. 

(3) Applications for import of stallions and brood¬ 
mares for breeding purposes by way of gifts will also 
be considered subject to the procedures and guidelines 
indicated in para 131(1) above, provided the gift is 
only from close relations namely, father, mother, 
wife, husband, son, daughter, real brother or real 
sister, who has been residing abroad continuously for 
a period of not leas than three years, and the gift is 
financed out of the donor’s own earnings abroad. 
Import under this provision will count against the 
eligibility of the stud farms in terms of para 131(1) 
above. 

(4) Requirements of horses for polo should be 
met from indigenous sources. However, where the 
requirements cannot be met through indigenous sup¬ 
ply, request for permission to import horses for polo 



42 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


may bo considered on ad hoc basis, on merits, by the 
Chief Controller of Imports & Exports in consultation 
with the authorities concerned. 

(5) For the purpose of clearance of stallions/ 
broodmares from the customs, a certificate of fitness 
issued either by the Veterinary Officer of the Govern¬ 
ment or from a qualified veterinary doctor registered 
with the Government of the country of origin con¬ 
cerned, will have to be furnished. 

132. Import of poultry vaccines (all types) will be 
allowed under Open General Licence to poultry 
farms/hateberies approved by the Ministry of Agricul¬ 
ture and Rural Development, New Delhi, subject to 
the conditions applicable thereto. 

133(1) Applications from accredited nurseries and 
others, including Government/Semi-Government ins- 
titntions, for the import of living plants, seeds or 
other plant material will also be considered by the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, 
on the recommendation of the Ministry of Agricul¬ 
ture and Rural Development/ICAR/Forest Research 
Institute/Botanical Survey of India, through whom the 
applications should be submitted. 

(2) All imports of plants, living and plant 
material by laud, sea or air shall be accompanied by 
a phytosanitary certificate issued by the appropriate 
authority in the country of origin in the internationally 
recognised form, indicating that the consignment is 
free from injurious insect, pestsfplant diseases. To 
assure themselves of proper and timely help in this 
regard, eligible importers are advised to consult 
with and apply well in time to the Plant Protection 
Adviser or other officer authorised by him in the 
Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and 
Storage, Faridabad for the grant of an import permit 
under the provisions of the Destructive Insects and 
Pests Act, 1914 and produce it to the Plant Quaran¬ 
tine Authorities at the time of clearance of the 
imported consignment. Import of plant species fisted 
in any of the Appendices of the Convention on 
Internatioal Trade in Endangered Species of Wild 
Fauna and Flora (CTTES) shall be subject to inspec¬ 
tion by the Deputy Director, Wild Life Preservation, 
Government of India. 

Import of Rooks (other than those covered by Open 
General Licence) 

134(1). Dealers in books J.e. persons holding valid 
registration certificate under the concerned Shops and 
Establishments statute, whose purchase turn-over of 
books during the preceding year was Rs, 3 lakhs or 


[Part I -Sec. 1] 


more, will be eligible to apply, along with a certificate 
of a Chartered/Cost Accountant or a Company Secre¬ 
tary, who is not a partner, a director or an employee of 
the applicant firm or its associates. Licences will 
be granted, on the basis of 10 per cent of the purchase 
turn-over for the import of :— 

(a) Books other than those covered by Open 
General Licence ; 

(b) Fiction ; 

(c) Non-tech ni cal magazines ; 

(d) Children books ; and 

(e) Teaching aids, the following 

(i) Microfilms and microfiches of educa¬ 
tional nature with or without readers- 
cum-printers ; 

(li) Film strips/slides of educational nature 
with or without audio cassettes; audio 
cassettcs/video tapes of educational 
nature and video discs of educational 
nature, for a value not exceeding 10 per¬ 
cent of the value of the licence; and 

(iii) Map globes. 

(2) Purchase turn-over referred in sub-para (1) 
above will also include purchases of journals, periodi¬ 
cals—technical andnon-technical. This will also in¬ 
clude the value of the books published by the dealers 
and actually sold by them. 

(3) In the case of books, import shall not be made 
by any one importer against the licence Issued to him 
(including the licences, if any, issued to his branches) 
of more than 1,000 copies of a single title without 
the prior written clearance of the Ministry of Educa¬ 
tion, New Delhi, Imports of foreign editions of books 
for which editions of authorised Indian re-prints are 
available, will not be allowed. Foreign re-prints of 
Indian publications will be allowed on the basis of 
prior written permission of the Ministry of Education, 
New Delhi. 

(4) Licences may also be endorsed for import of 
other teaching aids, on the basis of the clearance given 
by the Ministry of Education, New Delhi. 



*TKU SU TTSTT* arrfT’JTrm 


43 


[«TPTl—1] 

(5) Every importer holding a licence worth Rs. 1 
lakh or more should furnish to the Ministry of Edu¬ 
cation (Book Promotion Division), the following 
particulars :— 

(i) ]‘hc number of titles of books imported by 
him during the preceding two years and 
those proposed to be imported during the 
current licensing year ; 

(ii) The details of the foreign titles if any re¬ 
printed by him during the preceding two 
years and those proposed to be reprinted in 
the current licensing year ; 

(iii) The value of licence obtained by him dur¬ 
ing the preceding year ; 

(iv) Copies of the indents and invoice^ in res¬ 
pect of books imported by him during 
the preceding year either against a licence 
or under Open General Licence. Similar 
particulars for the current licensing year 
should also be furnished on a quarterly 
basis ; 

(v) Summary of titles, for which 200 copies or 
more were imported in the preceding year, 
showing the name of author, publisher and 
the actual quantity imported; and 

(vi) Separate lists of titles imported under 0 G.L. 
and/or against licence. 

135(1). Recognised schools, colleges, and libraries 
can also apply for licences for import of books not 
covered under Open General Licence. Tn their case, 
licences will be granted upto a value of Rs, 25,000 
per year per institution, These licences will be valid 
for import of the same type of books and other items 
as set down above for dealers. Later editions of 
books for which Indian re-prints are available will 
Salso be allowed for import under this provision. 

(2) Applications for supplementary import licences 
under this provision will also be considered on the 
recommendation of th e Ministry of Education, New 
Delhi, in cases where full requirements cannot be met 
within the licence for Rs. 25,000 

136. The existing concession whereby the Collectors 
of Customs are authorised to release post parcels 
containing books, magazines and periodicals, without 
the importers having to produce the import licences 
will continue during each licensing year. The licensee 
will ensure that only such books, magazines and 
journals arc got released under this concession, for 


the import of which he holds a valid licence. The 
value of books, magazines and journals imported 
by post parcels will be deemed to have been debited 
to the licence against which the import has been made. 

137. Books, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets, 
leaflets, journals and pre-recorded cassettes containing 
pornographic material or depicting sex, violence, etc , 
cannot be imported, under any circumstances. 

Import of video tape recorders 

138(1). Applications for import of video tape re¬ 
corders/ VCRs, with or without camera/T.V. Monitor, 
and video soft ware will be considered from Actual 
Uscrs/Exporters. With a view to achieving standar¬ 
dization of such equipment over a period of years, 
imports of video tape recorders will be allowed only 
where they arc of i" spool size and i" video 
cassette sizes. If an applicant requires any different 
specification, special reasons to justify his request 
should be detailed in the import application, for con¬ 
sideration by the Department of Electronics. Actual 
Users should apply to the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, and exporters should apply 
to the regional licensing authority concerned. 

(2) Import of equipment for setting up of Video 
software generation will be allowed. This will require 
prior registration with the Ministry of I & B. Requests 
for import of equipment, including Video tape recor- 
dcrs/Video Cassette recorders, video camera and other 
accessories for setting up such a facility will be consi¬ 
dered by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, based on certification of essentaility by 
the Ministry of I & B. Entrepreneurs should submit 
their requiremet of Capital Goods for such video soft¬ 
ware generation facility, in the prescribed application 
form for import of Capital Goods^ to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi through the 
Ministry of I & B. 

(3) In the case of exporters, applications will be 
considered from exporters of feature films having an 
export of feature films of not less than Rs. 10 lakhs 
in value (fob) during the preceding year and from 
manufacturer-exporters having export of select pro¬ 
ducts of a value not less than Rs. 25 lakhs (fob) dur¬ 
ing the preceding year. Along with the application, 
statement(s) of exports duly certified by a dealer in 
foreign exchange i.e. the bank or certified by a Char¬ 
tered Accountant in practice/Cost Accountant/Com¬ 
pany Secretary in practice, indicating the description 
of the goods exported, and their fob value, during the 
preceding year, should be furnished. If the exporter 
eligible under this provision wishes to import against 



44 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


his own REP licence, the particulars thereof may be 
given in the application. 

(4) Applications should be made in Form ‘A’ 
meant for Actual Users. Import licences shall be 
subject to ‘Actual User’ condition. 

(5) A provision has also been made for import 
of VCRs/VTRs as gifts in Chapter X of this Book. 

Import of Goods required by Shipping Companies 

139. Applications for import of goods other than 
permissible spares required by shipping companies 
will be considered by the regional licensing authorities 
concerned. Shipping companies should send their 
applications through the Director General of Shipp¬ 
ing, Bombay. Import licences will be granted for 
the value and items recommended by that authority. 
Provisions for permissible spares are given in Chap¬ 
ter VI of this Book. 

Captive Tool Room requirements 

140. Actual Users (Industrial or Non-Industrial), 
who have set up captive tool rooms for their operation 
and, maintenance purposes, may apply for import of 
items, required to make their own spares and tools, 
to the regional licensing authority concerned. Such 
applications will be considered on merits on the 
recommendation of the DGTD. 

Consultancy, Designing and Engineering firms 

141(1). Where a consultancy, designing and en¬ 
gineering firm, which is itself not an Actual User 
(Industrial), has been awarded a contract for the en¬ 
gineering, design, fabrication, installation, commission¬ 
ing and handing over of related capital goods to the 
project authority concerned and it requires imported 
raw materials, components, consumables and capital 
goods for the implementation of the contract it can 
apply in the form prescribed together with additional 
information in the proforma prescribed in Appendix 
VIII.C to Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985-88, for the import licence to the Chief Control¬ 
ler of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. Such appli¬ 
cations will be considered on merits on the recommen¬ 
dation of the project authority concerned and after 
screening by the Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs/Department of Electronics. However, import 
of computers and computer based equipments will not 
be allowed. 

(2) The above facilities will also be available to an. 
Actual User (Industrial) in the field of instrumentation, 
who needs imported items other than those covered 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 

by his licensed manufacturing activities, in order toi 
execute the more complete system contract awarded 
to him. 

(3) Under this provision, applications may also bo 
considered from public sector undertakings for the 
grant of bulk import licences to enable them to execute 
contracts on hand or to be awarded to them for engi¬ 
neering, designing, fabrication, installation, commis¬ 
sioning etc. of various projects. The public sector 
undertaking obtaining such bulk licences shall be liable 
to render complete account of imports made and utili¬ 
sation of imported goods in the implementation of the 
project, to the Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs/administrative Ministry concerned in the form 
and manner as may be laid down by that Ministry. 
The Ministry of Industry and Company Affairs/ 
administrative Ministry concerned will monitor proper 
utilisation of imports made against such bulk licences, 

Ad hoc licences to Consultancy firms, Construction 
agencies and Design engineering firms 

142(1). Applications for import of design and, 
drawing, office equipment, instruments, tools, acces¬ 
sories and other items may be considered from the 
following :— 

(a) Technical consultancy firms; 

(b) Construction agencies ; and 

(c) Design engineering firms. 

(2) Applications will be considered only for thoM 
items which are required for actual use by the appli¬ 
cant firm and cannot be imported under the normal 
policy. The value of the licence granted shall not 
exceed 10 per cent of the not foreign exchange earned 
by the applicant as per the Bank Certificate. Within 
this value, import of brochures printed abroad may 
also be made. The application shall be submitted to 
the regional licensing authority concerned and will be 
subject to clearance of the items by the DGTD/De- 
partment of Electronics. 

(3) Clearance from DGTD|Department of Elect¬ 
ronics referred to in sub-para (2) above, will be 
necessary only id the case of items appearing in 
Appendices 1 Part-A, 2, 3 Part-A, 8 and 10. For im¬ 
port of computers, jf any, clearance from the Depart¬ 
ment of Electronics will be necessary. In the case of 
office equipment, clearance from DGTD will not be 
necessary where such equipments are allotted to other 
exporters under para 145 of this policy. 



DtptI—' its 1] 


'*rrer w tnm: srersrR^r 


45 


143(1). Printing Presses in India, who supply print¬ 
ed materials to Indian parties on behalf of foreign 
customers against payment in free foreign exchange 
and whose cases are not covered by para 190 of this 
policy will be eligible for grant of Ad-hoc licences to 
the extent of 10 per cent of the total foreign exchange 
earned by them in the preceding year by such supplies. 
These licences will be issued for import of raw mate¬ 
rials, components, consumables, spares, machinery, 
equipment and accessories required by these printing 
presses for their actual use subject to indigenous clear¬ 
ance from DGTD. This will also be applicable to 
services rendered by these printing presses on receipt 
of free foreign exchange apart from physical supply 
of goods referred to above. 

(2) Procedure as well as other conditions given in 
para 142 above will apply. 

Requirements of Hotels 

144(1). The facility for import of permissible 
spares under OGL available to Actual Users, can also 
be availed of by Hotels (one star to five star) and res¬ 
taurants (independent of Hotel) approved by the 
Department of Tourism, Government of India for ope¬ 
ration and maintenance of the equipment used therein. 

(2) Tourist hotels approved by the Director 
General of Tourism, Government of India, New Delhi 
other than Tourist hotels (one star to five star) 
may apply for import licences for all their im¬ 
port requirements to the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi through the Director 
General of Tourism, New Delhi. Licences will be 
issued on the basis of bis recommendation. Import 
may not, however, be allowed in respect of items 
available from indigenous sources. 

(3) The Ministry of Tourism & Civil Aviation will 
obtain bulk indigenous clearance from DGTD in 
respect of the Items to be imported by hotels during 
the licensing yiar. Based on such clearance, import 
applications will be considered without referring 
individual applications to DGTD. 

(4) Applications from tourist hotels (one star to 
five star) and the tourist hotels approved by the 
Director General of Tourism, Government of India, 
New Delhi, covering their essential import require¬ 
ments may be considered on the recommendation of 
Director General of Tourism, New Delhi, without 
Indigenous clearance from DGTD upto a value not 
exceeding 10 per cent of fmeign ^xchaegf , *r&co by 
them from foreign tourists during tnc preceding licen¬ 
sing year. In the case of approved tom V. 


(five-star and four-star), import of vehicles, not more 
than two in number may also be allowed on the 
recommendation of Director General of Tourism, New 
Delhi, within this monetary limit. Also, in the case of 
approved tourist hotels (three star), import of vehicle 
not more than one in number may be allowed on the 
recommendation of the Director General of Tourism, 
within this monetary limit. 

(5) Within 2.5 per cent oi tne toreign exchange 
earned by tourist hotels from foreign tourists during 
the preceding licensing year subject to a maximum 
of Rs. 7.5 lakhs, the Reserve Bank of India may allow 
them expenditure in foreign exchange for tourist pro¬ 
motion and travel abroad, on the recommendation of 
Director General of Tourism. This amount will be in 
addition to the foreign exchange that may be available 
to them for the same purpose under the normal policy; 
it will also be in addition to the 10 per cent foreign 
exchange referred to in sub-para (4) above. 

Import of Office Machines 

145(1). An exporter, the f.o.b. value of whose 
exports has been Rs. 25 lakhs or more during any 
of the two preceding licensing years will be allowed 
to import, in a licensing period :— 

(i) one electric/electronic typewriter, 

(ii) one electrically operated calculating 
machine, 

(lii) one photo copying machine, 

(iv) one dictation tape recorder, 

(v) teleprinters upto Rs. one lakh (c.i.f.) (if 
cleared by the Ministry of Communications), 

(vi) One slide projector 

(vii) One 8/16 mm projector 

(viii) One word processor 

(ix) One paper shredding machine and 

(x) photo copying paper, calculating machine 
paper rolls, toner and dispersant for photo¬ 
copying purposes, spares of above-mention¬ 
ed machines and consumable tools required 
for these machines, for a value not ex¬ 
ceeding Rs. 5,000. 

(2) The provisions made m sub-para (1) above 
will also be available to an exporter, the f.o b. value 
of whose exports has been Rs. 15 lakhs or more (but 
less than Rs. 25 lakhs) in any of the two preceding 

*k ,o ns:u_„ yea!#, but in hi- case, the value of the 
•li&trim s to be allowed will be dabbed against valid 
REF licence obtained by him on bus own exports. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


46 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


(3) The imported machines and materials will be 
subject to ‘Actual User’ condition, i.c. for use in the 
licence holder’s office/factory. 

(4) While applying for a licence for the import of 
office machines and other items under these provisions 
the applicant should furnish a declaration indicating 
the quantity and value of these machines and other 
materials for which import licences have been obtained 
or import applications have been made during the 
same licensing period. The licensing authority will 
allow imports only after taking into account similar 
imports already allowed or applied for in the same 
period. Applications should be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned. During the licensing 
year eligible exporters can apply for these items under 
sub-paras (1) and (2) above for which they did not 
obtain licence under these provisions during the pre¬ 
ceding licensing year. However, in respect of item 
(x) i.c, photo copying paper etc., applications for 
import can be made once in every licensing year. 

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions in sub-para (4) 
above, an exporter, the FOB value of whose exports 
was Rs, 5 crores or more in any of the two preceding 
licensing years, can apply for import of office machines 
under these provisions in each licensing year. 

(6) Applications for import of office machines may 
also be considered by the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, from Government Depart¬ 
ments, banks, public sector enterprises, insurance com¬ 
panies, airlines, R&D units, Scientific or Research 
Laboratories, Institutions of Higher Education, Hos¬ 
pitals, and other institutions!enterprises, for their own 
use. Such applications will be considered on merits 
having regard to indigenous angle. Under this provision 
applications may also be considered from Chambers 
of Commerce and Industry where the activities of the 
applicants justify. While applying for import licence, 
the applicant should also furnish the number of office 
machines of the same type already available with him, 
both of indigenous manufacture and imported origin 
separately aud give justification for the imports sought 
to be made. Ordinarily, applications for import will 
not be entertained from those in the licensing year 
who obtained licence for the same machine(3) in any 
of the two previous periods under this sub-para or 
under sub-para (1) above. 

(7) Applications for import of items referred to in 
sub-para 145(1)(x) above may also be considered by 
the regional licensing authorities from those who im¬ 
ported office m a hmes under sub para (6) above. la 


ihctr case, the value of the annual licence will be 
limited to Rs. 5,000. Along with the application the 
applicant should furnish a declaration indicating the 
description of machines and their c.i.f. value imported 
during the last three financial years. Request for 
licences for a value above Rs. 5,000 will be considered 
by the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, Udyog 
Bhawan, New Delhi. 

(8) Request for import of PBXyPABX, including 
electronically operated PBX/PABX, may be consi¬ 
dered from exporters referred to in para 145(1) & (2), 
Government Departments and public sector enter¬ 
prises, subject to the conditions laid down. Import 
of such equipment for a value exceeding Rs. One 
lakh, will however, require clearance of Deptt. of 
Electronics. 

(9) Export Houses who have exported select pro¬ 
ducts of not less than Rs, 5 crores or non-select pro¬ 
ducts of not less than Rs. 10 crores in the preceding 
financial year and Trading Houses may be allowed, 
for their own use, the facility of import of PBX|PABX 
(including electronically operated) for value in excess 
of Rs. one lakh without clearance from the Depart¬ 
ment of Electronics but subject to prior clearance 
from Department of Telecommunications. 

(10) Applications for grant of licences for import 
of spares of office equipment may be entertained 
from the Indian agents of foreign office machines 
manufacturers for stock and sale. The value of such 
licences may be calculated at the rate of 1 % of the 
c.i.f. value of the office equipment imported by him 
or through him during any of the last three financial 
years. Applications should be made to CCI&E, New 
Delhi in the prescribed form and manner. Import 
licences will be issued subject to the conditions laid 
down in para 114(1) of this policy Book. Import of 
Toners and dispersant for photocopiers will also be 
allowed under this provision. 

(11) Applications for import of Office machines 
will not be entertained under C.G. procedure. 

Import of Explosives 

146. Applications for import of explosives will be 
entertained from Government Departments and public 
sector undertakings, for their own use. Import licen¬ 
ces will be granted oil the recommendation of the 
administrative Ministries concerned. 



[tiKI— 5T* l] 


'flTOT *PT XTSTW : arwiK^r 


47 


import by Travel Agents 

147(1). Travel agents may be granted import licen¬ 
ces for a value upto 2.5 per cent of the net foreign 
exchange earned by them during the preceding licen¬ 
sing year on account of rendering travel agency ser¬ 
vices subject to a maximum of Rs. 7.5 lakhs. Such 
licences will be granted for import of equipment and 
other items required for their professional use and 
tourist requirements, (including motor vehicles and 
coach/car air-conditioning units, each noi more than 
two in number during the year), on the recommenda¬ 
tion of the Director General of Tourism, New Delhi. 
Applications should be made to the CC1&E, New 
Delhi, While applying for the licence, the applicant 
should also furnish bank certificate evidencing the 
amount of net foreign exchange earned during the 
preceding licensing year on account of services ren¬ 
dered by them as travel agents. 

(2) Within the net foreign exchange earning re¬ 
ferred to in sub-para (1) above, the Reserve Bank of 
India may allow expenditure in foreign exchange tor 
tourist promotion and travel abroad, on the recom¬ 
mendation of Director General of Tourism, New Delhi, 
This amount will be in addition to the foreign ex¬ 
change that may be available to them for the same 
purpose under the normal policy. 

1RMAC (Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre) 
Scheme 

148(1). The STC, MMTC, State Small Scale In¬ 
dustries Development Corporations and public sector 
trading and service agencies may import in bulk the 
raw materials/components to be supplied off-the-shelf 
to the Actual Users and Registered Exporters, against 
valid import licences. The value of such goods will 
be debited to the import licence against which the 
supply is made. To the extent the goods are thus 
supplied, the licence in question will not be valid 
for direct import or for remittance against its ex¬ 
change control copy. The public sector agency con¬ 
cerned can apply for bulk import licence, and further 
licences will be issued to them to replenish the stocks 
serviced. The value of the bulk import licence will 
also be be set off against the licences serviced. 

(2) The public sector agencies referred to- above 
may also import, for off-the-shelf delivery or against 
specific requests ot the eligible Actual Users, items 
placed on OGL for Actual Users (Industrial). The 
interested agencies may apply to CCI&E, New Delhi 
for the grant of import licences for EUch items after 
getting the requisite foreign exchange released 
through the administrative Ministry Public 'eetor 
canalising agencies may also import such items under 


OGL against the allocation of foreign exchange al¬ 
ready given to them for import of canalised items. 

(3) For import of OGL items under sub-para (2) 
above, bulk import licences may also be given by 
CCI&E, New Delhi to public sector corporations 
on the lecommeudation of Development Commissioner 
(SSI), New Delhi, Under this provision, the value 
of import recommended for each State|Union Terri¬ 
tory, will not exceed Rs. 50 lakhs. No specific foreign 
exchange release will be necessary for this purpose. 
The Corporation concerned shall dispose of the im¬ 
ported material to Actual Users (Industrial) in the 
SSI Sector in the same State)Union icniiory as may 
be indicated in the licence on the recommendation 
of D.C. (SSI), New Delhi, and an account ihereot 
shall be furnished to DC (SSI), New Delhi. 

(4) The public sector agencies rel erred to in sub¬ 
para (1) may also be granted licences for the import 
of capital goods, raw materials, components, and 
spares or any items not covered by para 67 for sale 
to eligible Actual Users, according to such condi¬ 
tions and terms as may be laid down by the CCI&E, 
New Delhi. 

(5) Export House, whose value of annual exports m 
the preceding licensing year was not less than. Rs, 7 
crores (f.o.b.), may also be allowed by the CCI&E, 
New Delhi to provide IRMAC facilties to Actual 
Users by supplying them raw materials and compo¬ 
nents (non-canalised items only) off-the-shelf against, 
valid import licences held by such Actual Users. 
The IRMAC facility can also be provided by export 
houses whose value of exports two years ago were not 
less than Rs. 4 crores and who had increased their ex¬ 
ports in the preceding licensing year by at least 50 
per cent over that level (i.e. exports two years ago). 

(6) Trading Houses recognised by the CCI&E, 
New Delhi may also be allowed to provide IRMAC 
facilties to Actual Users and Registered Exporters 
by supplying them raw materials and components 
(non-canalised items only) off-the-shelf against valid 
import licences held by such Actual Users and Re¬ 
gistered Exporters. 

Registration of Contracts for Copper 

149. Eligible importers of copper including copper 
wire bars under any provision of the import policy, 
except against Advance licences or Special Imprest 
licences, should register their import contracts with 
the DGTD. Import shall be made only after the con¬ 
nected contract has been stamped by lb DGTD as 
;mh) 1 of such legist] at ion 1 nj tins pu pi ,■ two 
copb-s of the contract should be Jod^e*' with the 



48 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


registering authority and it will return one copy to 
the importer duly stamped on each page for produc¬ 
tion to the customs at the time of clearance of goods. 
At the time of registration of a subsequent contract, 
the eligible importer should also furnish a statement 
indicating the progress made in the import and uti- 
lisationjdisposal of the imported material in respect 
of the contract earlier registered, for information] 
record of DGTD. This procedure will not be appli¬ 
cable in the case of import by Minerals and Metals 
Trading Corporation of India. In their case, the 
provisions contained in Chapter IV pi thic policy 
will apply. 

Rehabilitation of disabled persons/physically handi¬ 
capped persons 

150(1). A number of items required by spinal 
patients and other categories of physically handicap¬ 
ped persons have been allowed for import under- OGL 
by all persons in List 2 of Appendix 6 of this Book. 

(2) Import of instruments and equipments required 
by the blind, including braille typewriters has been 
allowed under OGL by all persons in Appendix 6 
of this Book. 

(3) Applications for import of machinery fitted with 
special disability controls/devices, required for set¬ 
ting up an industry exclusively for rehabilitation of 
disabled (physically handicapped persons, of a value 
not exceeding Rs. 20 lakhs (cif) will be considered 
by the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New 
Delhi, on merits, in consultation with the DGTD, 
New Delhi. Such applications will not require recom¬ 
mendation of the sponsoring authority or indigenous 
clearance. Applications under this provision may also 
be considered from existing industrial undertakings 
taking up rehabilitation of disabled]physically handi¬ 
capped persons in industry. 

(4) Applications will be liberally considered from 
manufacturers of vehicles for import of disability 
controls/devices required by them to be fitted in the 
manufacture of vehicles for use by disabled (physically 
handicapped persons. Such applications may be 
made to the licensing authority concerned through 
the DGTD, New Delhi. 

(5) A provision has also been made in Chapter 
IX of this Book for import of cars fitted with special 

disability control*(devices, by physically handicapped 
person* 


[Part I—-Sec. 1] 


Sale of exhibits Imported In connection with National,/ 
International Exhibitions/Fairs 

151. Sale of exhibits/specific items of consumer 
goods imported in connection with National|Inter- 
national exhibitions!fairs organised by the Trade Fair 
Authority of India is allowed. Details are given in 
Chapter VIII of the Hand Book of Import—Export 
Procedures, 1985-88. 

Substitution of Import Content by Indigenous Materials 

152(1). The indigenous producer of any item 
(other than Capital goods can supply that item to a 
person holding a valid REP licence (including Addi¬ 
tional licence issued to the Export Houses) or 
Advance/Imprest licence, or Actual User licence, for 
the item in question. Such supply will be considered 
as an export for the purposes of (i) import replenish¬ 
ment as admissible under the import policy for 
Registered Exporters, (ii) qualifying exports for grant 
of Export House Certificate/Trading House Certificate, 
except that supplies made against Additional licences 
will not be considered in this regard, (iii) benefits, if 
any, available to exporting units under the Actual User 
policy, and (iv) the discharge of export obligation, if 
any, imposed on the indigenous producer under the 
Capital Goods/Industrial Licence or Approval of 
foreign collaboration or under Foreign Exchange 
Regulations Act. Under this facility, OGL items shall 
not be supplied. 

(2) The price at which such goods may be pro¬ 
cured by licence holders may be negotiated and 
settled between the buyer and the seller. 

(3) In case where the indigenous producer is willing 
to sell and the licence-holder is willing to purchase the 
goods, in question, the licence-holder should make 
a specific request to the licensing authority which 
issued the licence, indicating the value for which the 
goods covered by the import licence are proposed to 
be procured from the indigenous producer. Upon 
such request, the licensing authority will issue a 
Release Order on the indigenous producer indicat¬ 
ing the description of goods as given in the licence 
or covered by the licence, and the value, and reduce 
to that extent the value of the import licence. 

(4) The Release Order will be issued by the licens¬ 
ing authority in duplicate. Original of the Release 
Order should be retained by the indigenous producer 
after obtaining the acquittance of the Release Order 
holder for the receipt of the good* and the value 
thereof. He should produce the original of the Release 
Order to the licensing authority roacerned as evi¬ 
dence of txpori for claiming benefit* The value io 



JTKff "PT ■’mm aFTTSTFTT 


[tint I—ts ij 

be treated as the f.o.b, value of exports for this pur¬ 
pose will be the value for which the goods are suppli¬ 
ed by the indigenous producer or the value of the 
Release Order, whichever is lower. The element of 
customs and central excise duties will not be taken 
into account for the purpose. 

(5) For the purpose of issuing the REP licence 
against such supply of goods, the rate of import 
replenishment to be allowed will be higher by 10 
per cent of the normal import replenishment rate ad¬ 
missible against the goods, in question, under the 
import policy for Registered Exporters, in Appendix 
17 i.e. the import replenishment rate to be adopted 
will be 11 per cent instead of the normal 10 per 
cent and so on. 


49 

CHAPTER IX 

Import of Car and Vehicles 

155. (1) Import of cars, station wagons, jeeps, 
motor cycles, scooters, autocycles, mini-cars and 
mopeds can be made by the following persons subject 
to the requisite conditions indicated against each 
category :— 

(A) Indian nationals returning to India for perma¬ 
nent settlement. 

(i) Applicant should have stayed abroad conti 
nuously for at least one year ; 

(ii) Vehicle should have been purchased out ol 
own earnings abroad; 


Import of Cameras 

153(1). Actual User (Nor-Industrial), who holds 
a valid Shops and Establishments licence for a pho¬ 
tographic studio for at least 3 years, may be allowed 
to import a camera of c.i.f. value not less than 
Rs. 2,000. This price should cover, at the minimum 
the following ;— 

(i) Camera proper (body); 


(iii) Affidavit to be filed after being sworn 
before appropriate authority that he is 
returning to India for permanent 
settlement; 

(iv) Normally, the vehicle to be imported should 
have been used abroad by the applicant 
for at least three months; however, in 
specific cases, import of a newly purchased 
vehicle may be allowed; 


(ii) Normal-lens; 
fm) Sun-shade, 

(iv) Cable release, it any; and 

(v) Carrying case. 

Note : All other accessories or attachments would be 
charged extra. 

(2) Only one camera will be allowed for each such 
Actual User (Non-Industrial), who has not imported 
a camera in the past five years. All such imports will 
be subject to the Actual User condition. 

(3) Applications under this provision should be 
made to the regional licensing authorities concerned. 
They should be accompanied by a photostat copy of 
the Shops and Establishments licence, and a decla¬ 
ration of the applicant to the effect that he ha s not 
imported a camera in the past five years. 

Residua* requirements 

154. Other import requirements will be considered 

on the merits of each aiso, .-j hoc, bv the Thief 
Controller of Smpoits ami biports, New iMLu 


(v) Normally, the import application should 
have been made and CCF obtained while 
the applicant is still abroad. In exception¬ 
al cases, where the applicant has already 
arrived in India, request for grant of CCP 
may be considered within a period of two 
months of return provided the vehicle had 
been purchased or full payment for pur¬ 
chase of vehicle has been made before re¬ 
turning to India and no request for Issue of 
CCP will be considered if the vehicle had not 
been purchased or full payment for purchase 
of vehicle has not been made before return¬ 
ing to India. 

(vi) Import of second vehicle will be allowed 
only after a minimum period of five years 
from the date of import of first vehicle has 
elapsed. 

Note :—(1) Foreign nationals of Indian origin 
coming to India for good will be treated 
on par with Indian nationals In thi* 
regard. 

(2) In riic case i.f husband a nd wilt, I# 
other condition* arc fnlulUd, import 
application made by either of then; may 



50 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I—Sec. 1] 


be considered in respect of a vehicle 
purchased out of the earnings of the 
other. This will, however, be subject 
to production of an affidavit by the 
husband or wife, as the case may be, 
that no separate application for import 
of another vehicle shall be made. 

(B) Foreign ladies (including .persons of Indian 

origin ) married to Indian nationals. 

(1) As Gifts : 

(i) gift has to be by a parent only ; 

(ii) photostat copy of the marriage certificate 
to be submitted; 

(iii) parent’s certificate in original to be sub¬ 
mitted, stating that it is an unsolicited gift, 
supported by banker's certificate regarding 
financial status of donor, 

(iv) import as gift to be ado wed only once in 
applicant’s die time; 

(v) application has to be made within one year 
of the marriage. 

(2) Otherwise : 

(i) documentary evidence to be given regarding 
applicant’s financial status before marriage, 
supported by employer’s certificate/income 
tax certificate/banker’s certificate. 

(ii) affidavit sworn before appropriate authority 
to be filed, to the effect that the applicant 
is already settled in India or coming here 
for good. 

(C) Foreign Nationals employed in India in public 

or private sectors. 

(i) assignment in India to be for a minimum 
period of one year, supported by employer's 
certificate, in original. 

Note : —Foreign nationals of Indian Origin coming 
to India on specific assignment like other 
foreign nationals ,will be treated on par with 
foreign nationals in tliis regard. 

(D) Self-employed foreign nationals 

(i) State/Central Government certificate stating 
the nature of applicant's profession and 
reasons justifying import. 


(ii) Full landed cost to be paid in foreign 
exchange by the applicant. 

(E) Other Foreign experts (under Aid-Programme) 

non-diplomatic]home'based staff. 

(i) Certificate of assignment/employment from 
concerned Government Department/Em¬ 
bassy, with general particulars of nature 
of work and likely tenure, etc. as well as 
particulars of Aid-Programme, as applicable. 

(ii) purchase invoice/registration certificate of 
ownership of the cars being imported. 

(F) Physically handicapped persons 

(i) cif value of car together with disability 
controls fitted in it should not exceed 
Rs. 65,000. Original invoice/purchase vou¬ 
cher to be produced in support (Auto-trans¬ 
mission is not treated as a disability control 
device), 

(ii) Certificate in the proforma given in (Appen¬ 
dix XI-A of the Hand Book of Import-Ex¬ 
port Procedures, 1985-88, from the State 
Civil Surgeon or head of concerned wing in 
Government Hospital. Applications will be 
considered only from those applicants who 
have any of the following disabilities and 
the percentage of impairment is not less 
than 50 per cent of the total body as per 
Mebride Scale 

(1) Unilateral/Bilateral amputees of the lower 
limbs excluding below knee unilateral amputees. 

(2) Unilateral below elbow or above elbow am¬ 
putees. 

(3) Traumatic/permanent paralysis which cannot 
be surgically or medically treated. 

(4) Permanent paralysis of one upper limb or both 
lower limbs due to any reason or hemiparesis. 

(5) Grossly deformed limbs due to trauma, arthi- 
ritis or congenital but having at least one upper limbs 
normal, 

(iii) If the car is a gift, confirmatory letter from 
donor, in original, which should also 
indicate the donor’s relationship with the 
donee, 

(iv) Satisfactory evidence clearly justifying the 
need and essentiality for import of a selt- 
driven car by the applicant. 



*rmt vt 7 nrrer: amrOTn’t 


51 


[vmrl—'ir 1] 


(v) Cars of only 2000 CC engine capacity 
will be allowed. 

(vi) Gross income of the Applicant is not less 
than Rs. 30,000 per annum. Also, while 
considering the application, it will be kept 
in view rnat the income is not so large that 
lie is able to afford a chauffieur. 

(G) Branches I Offices of Foreign institutions ( cor¬ 

porate or otherwise) 

(i) full landed cost to be borne by foreign 
principals. 

(ii) ordinarily only one vehicle will be allowed— 
two only if there is more than one branch/ 
office in different towns. 

(iii) photostat copy of approval of Government 
or RBI for opening the branch/office, in 
question, in India, to be a^achcd. 

(H) Rupee company having foreign collaboration 

(i) full landed cost to be borne by foreign 
collaborators. 

(ii) collaboration agreement should require 
employment/visit of foreign director|techni¬ 
cal experts. 

(iii) Photostat copy of approval of Government/ 
RBI for the foreign collaboration, to be 
attached. 

(I) Accredited journalists/correspondents of foreign 

news agencies 

(i) application to be sponsored by and routed 
through Press Information Bureau, New 
Delhi. 

(ii) letter from overseas employers that full 
landed cost of vehicle will be borne by 
them (English Translation to be attached). 

(J) Air companies 

Applications will be routed through Depart¬ 
ment of Civil Aviation, Ministry of Tourism 
and Civil Aviation, and on their recommen¬ 
dation only. 

(K) Indian firms executing contracts abroad 

fi) photostat copy of letter of RBI/Government 
of India sanctioning the contract, 


(ii) only vehicles covered by specific RBI 
approval to expenditure overseas and used 
for the work. 

(iii) only on substantial completion of contract. 

(L) Charitable and missionary institutions working 

in India 

(i) only gifts of utility vans, ambulances, 
station wagons, jeeps, mini-buses or 
passenger transport vehicles etc. will be 
considered, 

(ii) certificate from concerned Government 
authority to the effect that the institution is 
an established one and has been functioning 
for the benefit of the community, irrespective 
of the considesation of ‘‘caste, colour or 
creed” is to be furnished. 

(iii) Provisions of Foreign Contribution (Regula¬ 
tion) Act, 1976 to be complied with. 

(M) Honorary Consuls of foreign governments 

(i) there should be satisfactory evidence that 
the car has been gifted by the Government 
represented by the Honorary Consul and 
the cost of the car plus freight and insurance 
charges shall be borne by that foreign gov¬ 
ernment; 

(ii) the Honorary Consul shall pay full Customs 
duty for the car as leviable under normal 
Customs rules at the time of import; 

(iii) the applications for the import of car should 
be recommended by the Ministry of Exter¬ 
nal Affairs in each case ; 

(iv) the replacement of the car may be conside¬ 
red only after a minimum period of ten years 
from the date of import of car; and 

(v) where an honorary consul is chafnged during 
the period of ten years from the dale of 
import of car, the new honorary consul shall 
not be allowed to import a fresh car but 
the car already imported for earlier hono- 
ray consul shall be transferred to his suc¬ 
cessor with the prior approval of the 
CCI&E. 

(2) Spares upto CJE value of Rs. 2,500 will be 
allowed to be imported alongwith the vehicle. 



52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


(3) The form and manner in which application 
1* required to be made arc given in Appendix IX-A of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985 - 88 . 

(4) No-sale period of imported cafr is also laid 
down in Appendix IX A of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985-88. 

Import of vehicles by Hotels 

156. Facilities for import of vehicles by approved 
tourist hotels are given in Chapter VIII of this Book. 


CHAPTER X 

IMPORT OF GIFTS 

157. Import of gifts upto Rs, 1,250 in value 
(including electronic items of upto Rs. 500/-) will be 
allowed by the Customs authorities without Customs 
Clearance Permits under the Savings Clause of the 
Imports (Control) Order, 1955. 

loiport of fire arms as gift 

158. (1). This will be allowed only from close rela¬ 
tions who are Indian nationals holding Indian passports 
and who have been living abroad continuously for a 
period of not less than two years. For this purpose, 
close relations will cover only father, mother, wife, 
husband, son, daughter or real brother or real sister of 
the applicant. 

(2) The Customs Clearance Permit will be issued 
only if the donee has not imported or otherwise ac¬ 
quired a foreign made fire arm during the last 10 years. 
Import of fire arms of non-prohibited bore only will 
be allowed. In the case of revolver and pistol, import 
will be allowed only if they are of .32 or smaller bore. 
Import of cartridges as gift alongwith the fire arm may 
also be allowed provided the number does not exceed 
50 cartridges. Applications will be considered in cases 
where the c.i.f. value of the fire arm and the accom¬ 
panying ammunition as above does not exceed 
Ri, 3,000 

(3) No Customs Clearance Permit will normally be 
Issued once the fire arm and ammuni tion have been 
despatched from abroad and/or their arrival in India, 

Applicants a:?, therefore, adC.au to r Irani and hold 
a valid Customs Clearance Permit before arranging 
the despatch of the fire-ann! ammunition from abroad. 


(4) Applications may be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned, accompanied by the 
following documents :— 

(i) Donor’s letter in original, 

(ii) An affidavit on stamped paper of the appro¬ 
priate value, duly sworn in before an ap¬ 
propriate judicial authority, showing :— 

(a) The exact relationship of the donor with 
the applicant; 

(b) Declaring that he/she has not imported or 
otherwise acquired a foreign made fire¬ 
arm, namely, revolver, pistol, gun, rifle, 
either as gift or otherwise, during the 
preceding 10 years; and * 

(c) Undertaking that the fire-arm applied for 
will not be sold, or otherwise disposed of, 
or parted with, within a period of ten 
years from the date of its importation, 
without obtaining specific permission of 
the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi. 

(in) An affidavit from the donor, declaring the 
period of his/her continuous stay abroad 
and giving particulars of his/her Indian 
passport, and 

(iv) Original arms licence held under the Indian 
Arms Act by the applicant (donee), provid¬ 
ed it is valid and duly renewed on the date 
of the application for grant of C.C.P. as 
well as on the date of (expected) clearance 
of the gift. 

(5) The C.C.P, will be issued with the condition 
that the fire-arm imported as gift shall not be 
sold or disposed of or parted with within a period of 
ten yeaj;s from the date of endorsement of its posses¬ 
sion on the arms licence. The fire-arm and the cartrid¬ 
ges imported against the C.C.P. will both be subject to 
Actual User condition. 

(6) It iB clarified that no permission of the CCI&E, 
New Delhi, shall be required for sale of fire-arms 

imported under this provision as gift or otherwise, pro¬ 
vided a period of ten years has lapsed from the date 
of import. 



»rr7TT <rr * smraTwt 


53 


[TIKI—<IT l] 


Import of video tape/cascUe recorders (with or 
without TV/monitor/camera) 

159(1). This may be allowed only from close 
relations who have been living abroad continuously 
for a period of not less than three years. For this 
purpose, close relations will cover only farther, mother, 
wifo, husband, son, daughter or real brother or real 
sister of the applicant, 

(2) The Customs Clearance Permit may be issued 
only if the donee has not imported or otherwise 
acquired a foreign-made video tape/cassette recorder 
during the last ten years. The CCP where issued 
shall be subject to the condition that VTR/VCR 
imported (and TV/monitor/camera, if imported) shall 
not be sold or disposed of or otherwise parted with 
for a period of ten years from the date of clearance 
through customs. 

(3) No Customs Clearance Permit will normally 
be issued once the goods have been despatched from 
abroad and/or their arrival in India. Applicants are, 
therefore, advised to obtain and hold a valid CCP 
before arranging the despatch of VTR/VCR with or 
without TV/monitor/camera. 

(4) Applications may be made to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned, accompanied by the 
following documents :— 

(i) Donor’s letter in original. 

(ii) An affidavit of the applicant, on stamped 
paper of the appropriate value, duly sworn 
in before an appropriate judicial authority 
showing :— 

(a) the exact relationship of the donor with 
the applicant; 

(b) declaring that he/she has not imported 
or otherwise acquired a foreign made 
VTR/VCR, with or without TV/ 
monitor/camera, either as gift or other¬ 
wise, during the preceding ten years; 
and 

(c) undertaking that the VTR/VCR applied 
for shall not be sold, or otherwise dis¬ 
posed of, or parted with, for a period 
of ten years from the date of its 
importation. 

(iii) An affidavit from the donor, declaring the 
period of his/her continuous stay abroad 
and giving particulars of his/her Indian 
passport. 


Import of other articles as gifts 

160. (1) In other cases, applications for the grant 
Customs Clearance Permits for import of articles 
received as gift will be considered on merits. Such 
applications may be considered from individuals, insti¬ 
tutions and establishments. The provisions of Foreign 
Contribution (Regulation) Act, 1976 should be 
complied with wherever they are attracted before 
applying for CCP, 

(2) Applications may be made to the Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports & Exports, New Delhi, except that, 
in the following types of cases, applications may be 
made to the regional licensing authority concerned :— 

(a) Where the value does not exceed Rs. 25,000 
in the case of institution, in respect of 
articles for its own use; and 

(b) Where the value docs not exceed Rs. 10,000 
in the case of a registered medical practi¬ 
tioner in respect of equipment/instruments 
required for his own professional use. 

Note : Applications for consumer electronic items 
for a value exceeding Rs. 500 even within 
the value limits indicated in sub-paras (a) 
and (b) above shall be made to CCI&E, 
New Delhi. 

161. (1) No application fee is required to be paid 
in the case of articles received as gift by an individual 
for his personal use. In other cases, application fee 
will be required to be paid at the prescribed rate. 
The applicant should also furnish with his application 
the original letter received from the donor who is 
making the gift. In the case of institutions where the 
c.i.f. value of the article to be gifted exceeds Rs. one 
lakh, the applicant should also produce the recommen¬ 
dation from the State Government or the Central 
Government, as the case may be, in support of the 
request for import. 

(2) Apart from the value of the articles to be gifted, 
other considerations thaft will be taken into account 
while deciding these applications, will be the nature 
of the article offered as gift, and the relationship 
between the donor and the recipient, and the purpose 
for which an article is sought to be imported. In 
appropriate cases, the licensing authority may consult 
other Ministries concerned. 

(3) Customs Clearance Permits, wherever issued 
will be subject to such conditions as may be imposed 
by the licensing authority 



54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


162. VVheie the recipient uf a gift ib a charitable, 
religious/cducational institution registered under the 
Societies Act or otherwise approved by Gorernment 
and the gift sought for import has been exempted from 
payment of customs duly by the Ministry of Finance, 
the imports may be allowed by the customs authorities 
without a Customs Clearance Permit, based on the 
duty exemption order issued by the Ministry of 
Finance. 

163. Import of goods under Government to 
Government Agreements relating to specified projects 
will be allowed under Open General Licence, on 
production of necessary evidence to the customs 
authorities. 

164. Applications for the grant of Customs Clear¬ 
ance Permits for import of cheque books, draft forms 
and traveller cheque forms may be considered from 
Indian branches of foreign banks, insurance com¬ 
panies and travel agencies. Customs Clearance 
Permits may also, on request, be granted to foreign 
airlines/shipping companies operating in India, for 
import of passage ticket forms. Applications in 
these cases should be made to the regional licensing 
authorities concerned, irrespective of the value applied 
for. 

165. Customs Clearance Permits may also be issued 
for the import of: 

(a) Video tapes covering technical applications 
or electronic equipment, theoritical discus¬ 
sions, service instructions, parts catalogues, 
etc., and 

(b) Computer tapes consisting of programme 
software, trouble shooting diagnostic, other 
data processing information, servicing ins¬ 
tructions, etc., required by Actual Users 
(Industrial) and Indian agents of foreign 
suppliers of goods, for instructional pur¬ 
poses, against purchase orders of such 
items. 


CHAPTER XI 

FACILITIES FOR INDIANS RETURNING 
FROM/RESIDING ABROAD 

166. Non-resident Indians/persons of Indian 
origin, who are returning to India for permanent settle¬ 
ment, will be allowed to import capital goods, raw 


materials, coinponems, consumables and spares, 
provided 

(1) They undertake <o set up a new industry 
which conforms to the Government indus¬ 
trial policy in force or participate in the 
expansion or diversification of an existing 
unit within the framework of industrial 
policy; or they wish to set up a servicing 
unit. 

(2) Details for import of capital goods including 
import of capital goods under the Special 
Scheme for Electronics Industry are given in 
Chapter III of this Book, 

(3) Details for import of raw materials, compo¬ 
nents, consumables and spares, including 
import under the Special Scheme for Electro¬ 
nics Industry are given in Chapter V of this 
Book. 

(4) In case where the Non-resident Indian/pci- 
son of Indian origin desires to obtain a 
Customs Clearance Permit in respect of 
items which are otherwise allowed for im¬ 
port under Open General Licence, with a 
view to availing of concessional rate of duty 
under ‘Project import’ facility, wherever 
eligible, he may apply for issue of CCP. 

(5) Application for import of capital goods 
should be made in the Proforma given in 
Appendix ni-I of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985-88. Applications 
for import of raw materials, components, 
consumables and spares should also be 
made in the same form till such time the 
applicant switches over to the normal policy 
applicable to Actual Users. These applica¬ 
tions should be made to Special Approvals 
Committee (NRI), Department of Industrial 
Development, Udyog Bhawan, New Delhi. 

(6) Applications for the grant of industrial 
licence in the prescribed form IL duly filled 
in with 14 spare copies and proposal for 
foreign collaboration, will also be consider¬ 
ed by the Special Approvals Committee 
(NRI). Every proposal so received from a 
non-resident Indian/person of Indian origin 
would be considered on a composite basis 
including issue of industrial licences, where 
necessary. Government’s decision will be 
communicated to the applicant within a 
period of 45 days. 



55 


vnTTJfrr : HmuO'-'l 

. 1 A 1 M w^i|v£^J£A4v4iMrifct-Mf..r "V 


[WUT I-ISRT l] 


(7) The industrial units concerned (if they ;ne 

newt will he required to get themselves re¬ 
gistered with the sponsoring authorities 
concerned except in eases referred to in sub¬ 
paras (4) and (5) above, within a period 
of one year from the date of import of 
capital goods, in accordance with the 

policy laid down. 

(8) Importers eligible to import machinery and 
other items under this Chapter will be 
exempt from production of “Importer Code 
Number” for a period of one year from the 
date of import of capital goods for their 
units. 

(9) Neither the Capital invested nor the profits 
would be allowed to be repatriated abroad. 

(10) No permission to sell the capital goods 
will be allowed for a period of 5 years from 
the date of import. Thereafter, such sale 
may be made, only with the prior permission 
of the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi. 

Amusement Parks 

167. Non-resident Indians/persons of Indian origin, 
who are returning home for permanent settlement, may 
also be allowed the facility of setting-up amusement 
park, subject to the following conditions :~ 

(i) Such imports should be fully financed out of 
their own foreign exchange savings and re¬ 
sources abroad ; 

(ii) The industry will be treated as Actual User 
(Non-industrial); 

(lil) All the applications should be routed 
through the concerned Department of the 
State Government to the Department of 
Social Welfare, Government of India, New 
Delhi, who will be the ‘sponsoring authority 
for this purpose; 

(iv) Only CCPs will be issued irrespective of 
value ; 

(v) Import of new machinery/equipment will 
only be allowed ; 

(vi) Gaines of chance or luck will not be 
allowed ; 


OHl No permission to sell the capital goods will 
he allowed for a period of five years from 
the dale of import. Thereafter, such sale 
may be allowed, onlv with the prior per¬ 
mission of the Chief Controller of Imports 
& Exports, New Delhi. 

(viii) Neither the capita] invested nor the profits 
will be allowed to be repatriated abroad ; 

(ix) Import shall be subject to such other con¬ 
ditions as may be imposed on the licence. 

Machinery for Agricultural Production/Dcvelopment 

168. Import of machinery required for agricultural 
production/development, purchased out of applicant’s 
own foreign exchange earnings and resources abioad 
will also be allowed, to Non-resident Indians/persons 
of Indian origin, who are returning home for perma¬ 
nent settlement, subject to the conditions laid down. 

Imports under Normal Conditions 

169(1). Facilities for import of capital goods, raw 
materials, components, consumables and spares, as 
mentioned above, will not be available to the catego¬ 
ries, given below : 

(i) Non-resident Indians who do not intend to 
return to India but wish to invest in an 
enterprise in India; 

(ii) Persons of Indian origin residing abroad 
and investing in an enterprise in India; 

(iii) Companies, firms, societies and similar 
other corporate bodies, owned to the extent 
of at least 60 per cent by non-resident 
persons referred to in (i) to (ii) above. 

In their cases, import will be governed as per 
normal provisions of import and export policy. 

(2) In arriving at the share in the equity capital of 
the firm or company setting up or owning the indus¬ 
trial unit concerned, the percentage share referred to 
above may be of the eligible person concerned, or of 
a company, firm, society or similar other corporate 
body owned to the extent of at least 60 per cent by 
such pcrson(s). Such ownership may be direct or 
indirect through subsidiaries, etc., but the utilimatc 
ownership should be by NRIs to the extent of at least 



56 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


170. Facilities are also ava lable for investment In 
Indian companies by Non-Resident Indians/persons of 
Indian origin. Details can be bad from the India Invest¬ 
ment Centre. 

171. Neither the capital investment nor dividends 
would be allowed to be repatriated abroad in the case 
of those returning to India for settlement. In other 
cases, repatriation facilities will be subject to Govern¬ 
ment’s policy as in force from time to time. 


CHAPTER XII 
IMPORT OF TECHNOLOGY 

172. (1) The basic objectives of the Technology 
Policy annonced by the Government of India are the 
development of indigenous technology and efficient 
absorption and adaptation of imported technology 
appropriate to national priorities and resources. The 
aims of the policy inter alia include : 

(a) attaining technological competence and self- 
reliance; 

(b) identifying obsolescence of technology in 
use and arrange for modernisation of both 
equipment and technology; 

(c) develop technologies which are inter¬ 
nationally competitive, particularly those 
with export potential. 

(2) The Technology Policy Statement hits also 
dealt with the issues relating to indigenous technology 
and technology acquisition. The basic principles 
governing the acquisition of technology will be : 

(a) Import of technology and foreign investment 
in this regard, will continue to be permitted 
only on a selective basis where : need has 
been established; technology does not exist 
within the country; the time taken to 
generate the technology indigenously would 
delay the achievement of development 
targets. 

(b) Government may, from time to time, Identify 
and notify such areas of high national 
priority, in respect of which procedures 
would be simplified futther to ensure timely 
acquisition of the required technology. 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


(c) There shall be a hrm commitment for 
absorption, adaptation and subsequent 
development of imported know-how through 
adequate investment in Research & Develop¬ 
ment to which importers of technology will 
be expected to contribute. 

(3) In dealing with technology transfer relating to 
international competitiveness and technology exports, 
the Policy has stated that it is necessary to maintain 
international competitiveness in products, services and 
technologies that have export potential. Conditions 
for the marketing of indigenous technology and of 
products based on it will be improved. It is 
important in all such cases to conform to the highest 
international standards. 

173. Import of technology will be considered on 
Open General licence in selected sectors/industries. 
Such areas would be identified and notified by the 
Government subsequently. 

174. The Import & Export Policy contains a 
number of specific provisions with the objective of 
promoting technological upgradation. Cost-effective¬ 
ness, optimum use of raw materials and energy savings 
are sought to be achieved through a package of 
technology inputs. These are indicated below :— 

(i) The Ministry of Industry and Company 
Affairs has the Technical Development Fund 
to cover foreign exchange requirements for 
import of balancing equipment having impact 
on quality and/or quantity of output, import 
of technical know-how, acquiring foreign 
consultancy service etc. The foreign ex¬ 
change limit per unit under this scheme is 
US $ equivalent to Rs. 1 crore. (Details 
are given in Chapter XII of the Hand Book 
of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88). 

(ii) (a) All scheduled industries mentioned in the 
First Schedule to the Industries (Develop¬ 
ment and Regulation) Act, 1951 whether 
in the large or small scale sector, will be 
allowed the facility of import of drawings 
and designs subject to the following condi¬ 
tions : 

(i) Imports will be allowed only once in a year 
to an industrial undertaking; and 

(ii) The value of such drawings and designs 
should not exceed Rs 25 lakhs. 



[ffUT I — <BT 1] 


*rrer vr rmar. amrara| 


57 


(b) Applications for import of drawings and 
designs from industrial undertakings, which 
satisfy the above conditions, may be made 
in the prescribed form to the Secretariat, of 
Industrial Approvals (F,C. Unit), Depart¬ 
ment of Industrial Development, New Delhi. 
The S.I.A. will process the applications, and 
if there is no objection, issue necessary letter 
of approval within a period of one month 
from the date of receipt of the application. 
Import of drawings and designs by the indu¬ 
strial undertakings will be allowed by the 
Customs authorities on the production of 
‘approval letter’ from the Secretariat of In¬ 
dustrial Approvals without the need for 
an import licence. Applications for remit¬ 
tance should be submitted to the concerned 
regional office of the Reserve Bank of India, 
through an authorised dealer in foreign ex¬ 
change, quoting a reference to the approval 
letter. 

(iii) In addition to (ii) above, import of drawings 
and designs for an additional amount upto 
Rs. 5 lakhs (or Rs, 20 lakhs by export 
oriented units) against REP licence auto¬ 
matically without Government’s prior 
approval can also be made. REP licences 
can also be utilised for this purpose for a 
higher value, subject to DGTD’s con- 
cuncurrence. (Details are given in Chapter 
XIV of this Policy). 

(iv) The policy for import of machinery by units 
having a prescribed level of export perfor¬ 
mance, against their REP licences has been 
liberalised to enable such units to modernise 
themselves. They will be able to import 
machinery of the typ e required, upto a 
value of Rs. 75 lakhs depending upon the 
level of exports and subject to other condi¬ 
tions laid down. (Details are given in 
Chapter III of this Policy). 

(v) Export Houses, whose export performance ir 
the preceding financial year is not less than 
Rs, one crore, and Trading Houses are 
permitted the facility of import of technical 
designs, drawings and other documentations 
upto a value of Rs. 10 lakhs and Rs. 25 
lakhs respectively against REP/Additional 
licences issued to them in their own favour 
for supply to their supporting manufacturers 
vide Chapter XXI of this Policy, 

58 GI/85—5, 


(,vi) R&D units and Scientific/Research Labora¬ 
tories are permitted to import all their te- 
quirements for R & D purpose, under OGL. 
(Details are given in Appendix 6 of this 
Policy). 

(vii) Liberalised provisions have been made for 
import of samples/pruotypes. (Delails are 
given in Chapter III of this Policy). 

(viii) Provision has been made for import of solar 
energy equipment and a number of other 
equipment/items for energy conservation 
under OGL (vide Appendix 6 of this 
Book). 

(ix) The facilities available to highly qualified 
scientists returning home for settlement have 
been substantially liberalised. If such 
persons have lived abroad for at least two 
years before returning to India and have 
been using professional scientific equip- 
ment/instruments for at least one year, 
they will be allowed to import the same' 
without import control restrictions. Equip¬ 
ment not used abroad for a minimum one 
year period would also be allowed to be 
imported without import licence but upto a 
value not exceeding Rs. one lakh in each 
case; for a higher value Import In such cases 
CCPs will be necessary. (Details are given 
in Chapter XI ol the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985-88). 

175. In order to enable industrial undertakings to 
reduce energy consumption, import of other machinery 
and equipment will be allowed to Actual Users (Indus¬ 
trial) on merits. 

176(1). Import will also be allowed of the follow¬ 
ing items required by industrial units for energy 
conservation :— 

(i) Improved gland packing materials and seals. 

(ii) Special type s of anticorrosive paints. 

(ui) Epoxy coating. 

(iv) Special coating polymers and chemicals foi 
energy conservation. 

(v) Maintenance free steam traps. 

(vi) Foam Glass insulations. 

(vii) Polyurethane Foam insulations. 



58 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


(2) Applications for import of the above items will 
be considered by CCT&E, New Delhi on the recom¬ 
mendation of DGTD (Import & Export Policy Cell), 
Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. 

(3) Import of the above items may also be 
arranged in bulk through STC to meet the require¬ 
ments of those industrial units which find it difficult 
to import small quantities required by them. 

177. In addition to the above-mentioned provisions, 
some additional facilities will also be available for 
meeting import requirements in certain specified condi- 
iions indicated below. These requirements will be 
considered by the Coordination Committee, which is 
headed by the CCt&E, New Delhi and includes 
representatives of the Department of Science and 
Technology and other Ministries/Departments con¬ 
cerned. 

(i) Imports necessary for upgradation/develop- 
ment of technology, which could help in 
(a) export production, (b) energy conser¬ 
vation, (c) cost reduction and (d) reduc¬ 
tion in material content. 

(ii) Import of machinery where it would result 
In significant economies in raw material 
consumption of the order of not less than 
10 per cent or where the import will reduce 
production cost of the unit by at least 10 
per cent. Such applications would be con¬ 
sidered on recommendation of the sponsor¬ 
ing authority. Preference will be given 
to units exporting atleast 25% of their pro¬ 
duction and to the units using their REP 
licences to cover the imports involved. 

tin) Import of know-how, designs, consultancy 
etc. for the improvement of the technology 
in cases where the industrial units have been 
exporting at least 25 per cent of their 
productipn annually in the last 3 years with 
a minimum of Rs. 5.00 lakhs each year. 
The amount of foreign exchange will be 
decided on merits keeping in view the order 
of export, investments already made etc. 

(iv) Import of know-how, designs, consultancy 
etc. upto a value of Rs, One crore in the 
case of R&D units recognised by Depart¬ 
ment of Science and Technology which have 
been in existence for at least 3 years during 
which thry have made substantial inve*t- 
ment in R&D work, 


178. The Coordination Committee, referred to in 
paragraph 177 above, will also consider request for 
import of technology development in the following 

priority areas : 

(i) environment ; 

(ii) agriculture including dry-land farming ; 
(hi) optimum use of water resources ; 

(iv) increased production of pulses and oil seeds; 

(v) provision for drinking water in rural areas ; 

(vi) improvement of nutrition ; 

(vii) rapid reduction in the incidence of blind¬ 
ness ; 

(viii) eradication of major communicable diseases 
(such as leprosy and tuberculosis) ; 

(ix) population stabilization ; 

(x) low-cost housing ; and 

(xi) development and use of renewable non- 
conventional sources of energy ; 

179. The Coordination Committee will also con¬ 
sider any other suggestions to improve technological 
up-gradalion within the overall policy 0 f the Govern¬ 
ment in this regard. 


CHAPTER XIH 

ITEMS FOR STOCK AND SALE 

180. Details of the items allowed «for import under 
Open General Licence by dealers, individuals and 
others for stock and sale purposes I.e, without an 
Actual User condition, are given in Appendix 6. In 
respect of certain items indicated therein, the imports 
will be governed by the conditions attached thereto. 

Import of Fresh Fntils, Dry Fruits & Dates 

181(1). Import of Fresh Fruits will be allowed, 
within the limits of foreign exchange to be allotted 
by the Department of Economic Affairs for this pur¬ 
pose, only through the National Agricultural Co-Ope¬ 
rative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED), 



[ymr I— m ij 


mm y;r xnnm. arwram 


59 


(2) Import of ‘Dates' will be allowed under OGL 
by all persons, if such import takes place by Indian 
sailing vessels, 

(3) Import of dry fruits (excluding cashewnuts 
and dates) will be allowed against licences issued to 
dealers engaged in this trade. The value of import 
licence in each case will be equal to 20 per cent of 
the c.i.f. value of best year’s imports of the applicant 
in respect of dry fruits (excluding cashewnuts and 
dates) during any of the financial years from 
1972-73 to preceding licensing year, subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 5,000. Application should be made 
to the regional licensing authorities concerned on or 
before the last.date of February of the licensing year 
to which the application pertains, accompanied by 
certificate of Chartered Accountant or Cost Accoun¬ 
tant who is not a partner, Director or an employee of 
the applicant firm or its associates, indicating the c.i.f. 
value of imports made by the applicant in his own 
name during any of the aforesaid years. The state¬ 
ment of imports should also give the numbers and 
dates of Bills of Entry and the name of Customs House 
of clearance to enable the licensing authorities to carry 
out post verification of the imports claimed. The 
Bills of Entry, in original, should also be furnished 
alongwith the statement of imports. In addition, the 
applicant should also furnish, for the purpose of 
verification, original Bills of Entry as an evidence of 
the imports on the basis of which he obtained import 
licence in 1981-82 (or 1982-83 if no licence was 
obtained under 1981-82 policy; or 1983-84 if no 
licence was obtained under 1981-82 or 1982-83 policy 
or 1984-85 if no licence was obtained In 1981-82 or 

1982- 83 or 1983-84). However, once an Importer 
has submitted the original Bill of Entry, on the basis 
of which his best year’s imports has been established 
to the satisfaction of the licensing authority, and im¬ 
port licence has been issued during 1981-82, 1982-83, 

1983- 84 or 1984-85, licence In the subsequent years 
may be granted on the basis of information already 
furnished and accepted. 

(4) For grant of an import licence, if any intending 
importer is unable to furnish the original Bill of Entry 
and he is able to establish its Joss, the collateral 
evidence furnished by him may be accepted provided 
the concerned licensing authority, for the reasons to 
be recorded in full in all such cases, is fully satisfied 
about such evidence. 

(5) Import licences issued under sub-para (3) 
above will also be valid, within their overall value, 
for import of dates (wet or dry) by land route, upto 
10 per cent of the value of the licence, subject to a 
maximum of Rs. 25,000 in each case. 


Import of photographic films 

182(1). Import of photographic film (colour) 
and photographic film (black and white) of other than 
120 and 620 roll size, can be made by all persons 
under OGL, subject to the conditions laid down. 

(2) Import of photographic film s (black and white) 
of 120 and 620 roll size will be regulated having re¬ 
gard to the indigenous availability. The quantum of 
import and the manner of distribution will be decided 
by Goverpment from time to time. 

Import of Ammunition 

183(1). Import licences may be issued to licensed 
Arms Dealers for import of specified type of ammu¬ 
nition, at 5 per cent of the value of their annual 
average sales turnover of ammunition (whether indi¬ 
genous or imported) during the last three years 
subject to a minimum of Rs. 2,000. Import licences 
will be valid for import of the following ammuni¬ 
tion :— 

(i) Shotgun Cartridges 28. 

♦ 

(ii) Revolver Catridges .450, .455, .45 bores. 

(iii) Pistol Catridges .25, .30 Mauser, .450, .45 
bores. 

(iv) Riflle Cartridges 6.5 mm, .22 savage, .22 
Hornet, 300 Sherwood, 32/40. .256, .27$, 
.280, 7m/m Mauser, 7m/m Man Schoener, 
9on/m Mauser, 9m/m Man Schoener, 8x57, 
8x57S, 9.3m/m, 9.5m/m, .375 Magnum, 
.405, .30.06, .270, .30/30 Winch, .318, .33 
Winch, .240 Mangnum, .351 Winch, .275 
Mag., .350 Mag, 400/350, .369 Purdey, 
.450/400, .470, .32 Win, .458 Win, .380 
Rook, ,220 SWift, .44 Win bores. 

(2) Eligible licensed Anns Dealers may apply In 
the prescribed Form given in Appendix XITI-A of 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88 
together with supporting documents including a 
certificate of Chartered Accountant or Cost Accountant 
or Company Secretary, who is not a partner or 
Director or an employee of the applicant firm or its 
associates, indicating year-wise value of their sales 
turnover of ammunition (indigenous or imported) 
during the last three years. This certificate should also 
mention the No. and date of the valid Arms Dealer’s 
licence held by the applicant on the date of the Import 
application. Applications should be made to the 
regional licensing authorities concerned so as to reach 
them not later than 31st July of the year to which 
the application pertains. 



60 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. I] 


184(1) Application tor import pf arms and ammu¬ 
nition from “renowned shooters’’, for their own use, 
may be entertained by the CCI&E, New Delhi, on 
the recommendation of the Department of Youth 
Affairs and Sports, Government of India, New Delhi. 

(2) Applications of import of arms and ammuni¬ 
tion from renowned shooters, for their own use, to be 
received as gift from t abroad, may also be entertained 
by the CCI&E, New Delhi on the recommendation of 
the Department of Youth Affairs and Sports, Govern¬ 
ment of India, New Delhi. 

Import of weediddea for stock and sale 

185. Import of weedicides, namely, (i) Metha- 
zenzthiazuron (Tribunil), (ii) Metozuron (Dosanex) 
and (in) Isoproturon (tolkan and Arclon), and other 
pesticides, weedicides and insecticides, whether In 
finished formulations or in technical form, as may be 
required, may be arranged through a public sector 
designated agency, on the recommendation of the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and 
on the basis of foreign exchange released by the De¬ 
partment of Economic Affairs. Import will be allow¬ 
ed subject to such conditions as may be decided by 
Government. 

-4 

Items allowed for Import by Actual Users and others 

for Stock and Sale 

186. Import of raw materials, components and con¬ 
sumables is allowed on Open General Licence to Actu¬ 
al Users (Industrial) In accordance with the conditions 
laid down vide items (1) and (2) of Appendix 6 of this 
policy. In respect of certain items, out of these, import 
under Open General Licence can also be made by 
others, apart from Actual Users (Industrial) for stock 
and sale purposes. These items are listed in Part III, 
List 8 of Appendix 6 of this policy Book. 

Import of Spares for Stock and Sale 

187. Details for import of spares for stock and sale 
are given in Chapter VI of this policy Book. 


CHAPTER XIV 

IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED 
EXPORTERS 

188. The object is to provide to the Registered 
Exporters, by way of import replenishment, the 
materials (all or some) required in the manufacture 
of the products exported. 


Eligibility 

189(1). Exports made of products appearing in 
Appendix 17 will qualify for the grant of import 
replenishment only if such exports are made in 
accordance with the export policy in force. 

(2) Products for which minimum export prices, i.e. 
floor prices, have been fixed will qualify for import 
replenishment only if they satisfy this condition; a 
declaration of the exporter about his compliance with 
this condition should accompany the relevant import 
application. Also, where the licensing authority con¬ 
siders that the value of thq goods exported is over- 
invoiced or there has been a mis-declaration/wrong 
description of the goods exported, it shall be open to 
it either to refuse the licence or reduce its value as 
deemed fit. This shall be without prejudice to any 
other action that may be taken under the import-export 
statute or other legal provisions, 

190. The following types of “deemed exports’’ will 
also qualify :— t 

(a) Sales to foreign tourists of the items speci- 
field in para 209 of this policy ; 

(b) Supplies made to IBRD/IDA aided projects 
in India where such supplies are made under 
the procedure of international competitive 
bidding ; 

(c) Supplies made in India to United Nations 
Organisations of under the Aid Programmes 
of United Nation s and other multi-national 
agencies, at international prices and paid 
for in free foreign exchange ; 

(d) Sales to foreign shipping companies, where 
payment is received in foreign exchange or 
in Indian Rupees obtained from the ex¬ 
change of foreign currency ; 

(e) Supplies of fitment items (of Capital Goods 
nature) to Indian shipyards building ocean¬ 
going ships ; 

(f) Supplies made in India to projects financed 
by multilateral or bilateral external assis¬ 
tance, cither under international competitive 
bidding or under limited tender " required 
under the procedure governing multilateral/ 
bilateral assistance and allowing tendering 
to parties from both India and abroad. 
(This will apply to supplies made t 0 pro¬ 
jects as a result of tenders opened by tbe 
project authorities on or after 11 th Decent 
ber, 1981) ; 



1TTOT fTT WW: «TOTSTVr 


[*mt I—srf i] 


(g) Supplies made in India to units in free trade 
zones or 100% export-oriented units, 
according to the policy laid down under the 
respective schemes I 

(h) Supplies made in India of ‘intermediate 1 
products to holders of Advance licences 
under the scheme for supply of intermediate 
products contained in Appendix 19. 

(i) Supplies at international prices of raw mate¬ 
rials, components, machinery, equipments, 
instruments, accessories, tools, and spares 
(excluding consumables, office machines and 
consumer goods, howsoever described) to 
ONGC, Oil India Ltd. and Gas Authority of 
India Ltd., both for their off-shore and on 
shore exploration, drilling and production 

* operations in pursuance of offers/orders/ 

contracts based on such offers/orders. 

(j) Otjier supplies made in India against inter¬ 
national competitive bidding where the 
payment is received in free foreign exchange. 

191. The following exports will not qualify :— 

(i) Exports to Bhutan except supplies made 
by Indian suppliers against payment in free 
foreign exchange by United Nations agencies 
in connection with their Aid Programmes 
or supplies made to IBRD/IDA aided 
projects ; 

(ii) Exports to Nepal and Afghanistan except 
those paid for in free foreign exchange or 
in accordance with the procedures for pro¬ 
curement under IBRD/ IDA/ADB regula¬ 
tions ; 

(iii) Exports under barter deals or under trade 
promotion agreements cnteied into by 
public sector enterprises in India with over¬ 
seas buyers, unless otherwise provided with 
prior Government approval in the relevant 
barter deal or trade promotion agreement ; 
and 

(iv) Exports to Bangladesh against commodity 
grants under the Ministry of Commerce 
Public Notice No. 3—ETC(PN)/75 dated 
25-1-1975. 

192. Exports on consignment basis will qualify 
only after the proceeds have been realised against final 
sales. The import replenishment rate in such cases 


61 


would be that in force on the date of realisation ol 
sale proceeds. 

Extent of Import Replenishment 

193(1). The extent of Import replenishment 
permissible against each product enumerated in 
column 2 of Appendix 17 shall be that set out in 
column 3 theieof. These percentages will apply in 
the case of exports made on or after 1-4-1985 
except for registered contracts to which the iclevant 
provisions would apply, 

(2) The provisions made in para 220 may be 
referred to in respect of exports of new products or 
to new markets. 

(3) In respect of exports made through Indian 
vessels, the registered exporter will be eligible fot 
REP licence under the import policy for Registered 
Exporters in accordance with the provisions made 
in Appendix 17, at the rate of import replenishment 
higher by 10% of the normal rate. 11% instead 
of the normal 10% and so on. 

Categories of Registered Exporters 

194. They comprise of merchant-exporters, manu¬ 
facturer-exporters and Export Houses (including 
Trading Houses). 

Items permissible for Import 

195(1). The items permissible for import against 
each export product covered by this policy are given 
in column 4 of the policy statement given in 
Appendix 17, read with column 5. 

(2) Import of technical designs, drawings or other 
documentation and/or facilities for type testing abroad 
may be allowed to manufacturer exporters against 
REP licences, upto Rs. 5 lakhs in value (or Rs. 20 
lakhs in value in the case of units which exported 
select products atlcast 25% of* their production in any 
of the two previous financial years subject to a 
minimum of Rs. 5 lakhs, or which exported select 
products of atleast Rs. 1 crorc in FOB value 
in any of the two previous financial years) in each case 
during the licensing year for which an endorsement on 
REP licence will be made, on request, by the licen¬ 
sing authority concerned. The manufacturer-exporter 
should send post-fneto intimation to the Director 
General of Technical Development (Import and 
Export Policy Cell), New Delhi, immediately after 
the import has been made. Requests for import of 
these items of higher value may also be considered by 
the licensing authority concerned in consultation 
with DGTD, 



62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


(3) The facility lor import of technical designs 
etc. up to Rs. 20 lakhs in value, available in 
sub-paia (2) above to manufacturer-exporters having 
a minimum export performance as laid down, can 
be availed of by them either against their own valid 
REP licences obtained on the basis of their exports 
as per policy, or against valid REP licence acquired 
by transfer m accordance with the import policy. 
The licensing authority, while making an endorsement 
on REP licence for the purpose under sub-para (2) 
above, shall also impose Actual User condition. Where 
the manufacturer-exporter intends to transfer the 
balance value of the REP licence, in question, under 
the provisions of the import policy, the licensing 
authority may, on request, issue a separate non- 
transferable licence for import under sub-para (2) 
above, by corresponding reduction in the value of the 
concerned main REP licence. 

(4) The facilities in sub-paras (2) and (3) above 
will be used by the manufacturer-exporter only for 
the purpose of authorised production. 

196(1). RIjP licences will also be valid for the 
import of computer tags/cards, printed/woven labels, 
printed poiyethylene/polypropylenc bags, illustrated 
catalogues, pictures, albums and mailing lists, pricing/ 
uiuiking/coding equipments/hand operated labelling, 
upto 2 per cent of the value of each licence and within 
its overall value. 

(2) In cases where the items mentioned in sub¬ 
para (1) above are supplied free of charge, Customs 
Clearance Permit will be considered, provided the 
items are used for purposes of exports only. 

(3) Registered exporters may be granted Customs 
Clearance Permits for import of labels and other items 
mentioned in sub-para (1) above, supplied tree of 
charge, of a value equal to one per cent of the FOB 
value of their exports during the preceding year of 
readymade garments covered by Products Group ‘O’ 
in Appendix 17. The Customs Clearance Permits 
will bear a condition that the imported articles will 
be used only fot exports. 

Import of canalised Items against REP licences 

197(1). The holder of a REP licence may effect 
direct import of those canalised items as appear in that 
licence, upto the extent permitted therein or which 
can be imported against the licence under any specific 
provision in this policy. In such cases, it shall be a 
condition that the importer shall furnish particulars 
of the imports made to rbe cmalising agency concern¬ 
ed in the proscribed proforma appearing in Appen¬ 


dix 1V-F of ihe Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985-88. At the time of clearance, 
the importer will be required to declare to the customs 
that these particulars regarding the consignment sought 
to be cleared have been sent to the concerned Cana¬ 
lising Agejjcy, viz.vide letter No. 

dated.Failure to comply with this require¬ 

ment will entail penal action under the imports statute, 
besides the stoppage of the facility to the licence 
holder against current licences and denial of further 
licences to him. 

(2) In respect of items appearing in Appendix 5 
Part B, which do not specifically figure in the shop¬ 
ping list against various export products in Appendix 
17, prior approval of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports, New Delhi, will also be necessary before 
effecting imports as laid down in Para 73 of this 
policy. Such prior approval will not be necesary in 
respect of items which appear in Advance licence 
issued under Duty Exemption Scheme in Appendix 19. 

Import of Capital Goods against REP licences 

198. The provision relating to import of Capital 
goods/prototypes by Actual user (Industrial) a gain U 
REP licence(s) is given in para 50-of this policy. 

Import of samples by Registered Exporters 

199. Samples imported by exporters for export 
production purposes will be Exempt from import 
control restrictions, if such samples are imported 
against the blanket release of foreign exchange pro¬ 
vided by the Reserve Bank of India for travel abroad. 

200. Manufacturer-exporters can import technical 
samples valued upto Rs. 20,000 c.i.f. under OGE 4, 
provided these are supplied free of charge by foreign 
suppliers. Customs authorities will also lake a liberal 
view in allowing clearance of such samples which arc 
imported as personal baggage of the manufacturer- 
exporter. Export Promotion Councils, Trade Deve¬ 
lopment Authority (TDA) and Export Houses/Trad¬ 
ing Houses can also import technical samples bnder 
OGE 4, subject to the conditions laid down therein, 

201. Import of samples may be allowed by the 
customs authorities without import licence in cases 
where (i) the value does not exceed Rs. 10,000, 
(ii) the importer is a registered manufacturer-exporter 
and produces evidence to this effect to the customs 
authorities at the time of clearance. The authorised 
dealers in foreign exchange may open letters of credit 
or make remittance on behalf of the registered manu¬ 
facturer-exporter* against mch import* after sad*- 








[WFT I —l] 


»TTOt : xramrw 


63 


fying themselvcS' about the bona fide of the applicants 
and their compliance with the conditions stipulated 
above. 

202. REP licence issued to a Registered Exporter 
on his own exports will be valid within the value of the 
licence for the import of samples required for product 
development by the registered exporter himself or by 
his supporting manufacturer, upto Rs. one lakh pro¬ 
vided the import of each type of sample is not more 
than two in n um ber. This limit will be Rs. 50,000 
for others. T hi s facility will not be available .for 
import of the following items : — 

(i) T.V. set, 

(ii) Air Conditioner, 

(iii) Refrigerator, 

(iv) Cooking Range, 

(v) Washing machine, 

(vi) Motor Cycle, Scooter and Moped, 

(vii) Radiogram, 

(viii) Tape recorder, 

(ix) Amplifier, 

(x) Camera/Movie Camera, 

(xi) Movie Projector, 

(xii) Golf set, 

(xiii) Watch, 

(xiy) Electric Shaver, 

(xv) Hair Dryer, 

(xvi) Flash gun, 

(xvii) Exposure meter, 

(xviii) Motor Vehicle (.car, jeep, bus, truck, liactoi 
etc.), 

(xix) Office machincs/equipment, 

(xx) VCR/VTR, 

(xxi) Computer (including personal computer, 

word processing system aud Desk Top 
Computer). 

But this restriction will not apply to the import of 
TV set, Air couditoner, Refrigerator, Radiogram, 
Tape recorder. Amplifier, Flash gun, Two-wheeler, 
moped, scooter and motor cycle, by a manufacturer- 
exporter who is an Actual User (Industrial) himself 
manufacturing such item(s). 

203. Manufacturer-exporters requiring to import 
samples, for a value higher than that permissible in 
para 202 above against their REP licences, can apply 


to the licensing authorities concerned for suitable 
endorsement, on the recommendation of the Expon 
Promotion Council, Trade Development Authority oi 
other registering authority concerned. 

Special Facilities to Registered Exporters 

204(1). A manufacturer-exporter holding a valid 
REP licence issued in his own name against exports 
of select products manufactured by him will be eligible 
to import within the overall value of REP licence 
items of raw materials, components, consumables, 
spares and packing materials which are related to 
select products exported or manufactured by him 
either in the same factory as the one from which the 
goods were exported against the REP licence con¬ 
cerned or in some other factory of the same name 
of the manufacturer. However, in respect of items 
covered by sub-para (2) below, import will be subject 
to the value restrictions indicated against the diheient 
categories of licence holders. The special facility 
will be subject to the following conditions :— 

(i) Items mentioned in Appendix 2 and 
Appendix 5—Part B of this Policy wifi not 
be allowed to be imported. Import of 
(i) Raw Silk, and (ii) Componcnt/modules 
of electronic watches, clocks and time pieces 
will also not be allowed. 

(ii) Import of instruments will not be allowed 
under this facility. However, import ol 
testing, .measuring and quality control insiru 
ments used in electronic industry will be 
allowed upto 20% of the face value of the 
licence subject to a single item not exceeding 
Rs. one lakh. 

(in) Import of tools including consumable tools 
will be allowed under Ibis facility subjeci 
to the value restrictions on items referred 
to at SI. No. 1 in sub-para (2f below. 

(iv) Additional import replenishment whercvei 
provided in column 5 against certain 
SI, Nos. in Appendix 17 of this Policy will 
not be allowed to be used for this facility. 
Against such additional import replenish¬ 
ments, only the items specifically permitted 
in column 5 will be allowed. 

(v) Import of components under this para by 

DGTD and textile machinery manufacturing 
units which are or which have been subjeci 
to phased manufacturing programme will 
be governed by the List Attestation 
Procedure contained in Para 94 of this 
Book. 



64 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


(vi) Single item for which the value limit is 
provided in this para will have the same 
meaning as defined in para 7 of this book. 

(vii) The imports when made will be subject to 
Actual User conditions. 

(viii) REP licences to be used for the facility 
under this para shall be “non-transferable*’ 
and shall be endorsed accordingly. 


(2) The different categories of REP licence holders, 
face value restrictions for import of items, value limits 
for import of single item in Appendix 3 or 
Appendix 5—Part A based on the replenishment 
percentages indicated in column 3 in Appendix 17 of 
this Policy against the relevant export products and 
conditions subject to which import is allowed are 
given below : 


SI. 

Category of REP 

Where the REP 

Maximum 

Items permitted 

Maximum 

Enhanced 

Conditions for 

No. 

licence holder 

percentage in 

face value 

for import 

value limit 

maximum 

limit in column 



App. 17 of this 

upto which 

for import 

value limit 




policy is 

REP 


of a single 

for import 





licence can 


item in 

of a single 





be utilised 


col. 5. 

Pern in lieu 
of value in 








ool. (63 
if conditions 








In ool. (8) 
are 

satisfied 







(Id lakhs 

(In lakbs 



enhanced 

(7) 


value 


Rs.) 


Rs.) 


1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 


1. Manufacturer ex* 
porter including 
Manufacturer Ex¬ 
port House and 
Manufacturer Trad¬ 
ing House. 

More than 20% 

23% 

items in 

Appendix 3 

1.30 

2 50 

(1) Export of select products is 
at least 25% of the gross 
value of his output of 
select products in any of 
the two previous financial 
years: and. 

2. -do* 

More than 20% 

20% 

items in Appendix 

5—Part A. 

1.00 

2.00 

(2) Minimum value of export 
In (1) above Is not less than 
Rs. 10 lakhs. 

-do- 

3. -do- 

20% or less 

30% 

Items in 

Appendix 3 

1 . 50 

2.50 

-do- 

4, -do* 

20% or less 

25% 

Items in 

Appendix 3— 

Part A. 

1.00 

2.00 

-do- 

3. -do* 

More than 20% 

23% 

items in 

Appendix 3 

1.30 

4.00 

(1) Export of select products in 
any of the two previous 
financial years is 50% or 
more of his gross value of 
output ol select products, 
and 







(2)gMinimutn value of export 
lu (1) above is not less than 
Rs. 15 lakhs. 

6. -do- 

More than 20% 

20% 

Items in 

Appendix 5— 

Part A. 

1.00 

3.00 

-do- 

7, -do 

20% or less 

50% 

Items in 

Appendix 3. 

1.50 

3.00 

-do- 

8. -do 

20 % or less 

"50% 

Items in 

Appendix 5— 

PartjA. 

1.00 

4.00 

-do- 

9. Merchant Export 
House or Merchant 
Trading House. 

20% or less 

20% each 

Items In (i) 

Appendix 3 and 
(it) Appendix 

3—Part A. 

2,00* 

each. 

• * 

•This facility is admissible subject 
to conditions given in sub¬ 
para (3) below. 

X 




<rm!t TT TTJTRr: Utim i W l] 


65 


[trnrl —ot i] 


(3) The flexibility in tbe utilisation of REP 
licences allowed to manufacturer-exporters in sub- 
para (1) above is extended to the merchant export/ 
trading houses subject to the following conditions : — 

(i) The items alowed for import are only those 
which are actually required as raw materials, 
components, spares and packing materials 
by the supporting manufacturer of these 
export/trading houses. These shall also be 
subject to the conditions laid down in sub- 
para (1) above. 

(ii) The materials imported under these pro¬ 
visions shall be disposed of only to tho 
supporting manufacturers subject to Actual 
User conditions. A list of such supporting 
manufacturers whose, products have been 
exported by the export/tiadiug houses will 
be furnished in advance to the licensing 
authority concerned along with (a) consent, 
letters in writing in original from these 
supporting manufacturers and (b) a photo¬ 
stat copy of the valid Registration Certificate/ 
Industrial licence held by such supporting 
manufacturers. The list once furnished 
shall not be allowed to be changed 
in the course of the licensing period. The 
list so furnished by the export/trading 
houses shall form part of the REP licence 
endorsed under these provisions and shall 
be subject to the condition that the materials 
imported shall be disposed of to the Actual 
Users named in that hst. In the case of 
export houses, the list shall not include more 
than 50 such supporting manufacturers. 
Tbis restriction shall not, however, apply to 
trading houses. 

(iii) Each export house and trading house 

availing of the facility under this para shall 
furnish separate quarterly returns to the 
port licensing authority concerned giving 
the description and value of the items 
imported by them and disposed of to Actual 
Users with their complete addresses and 
Industrial Registration Nos., etc. Each such 
quarterly report should reach the licensing 
authority concerned within a month from 
the expiry of the quarterly period, failing 
which the facility provided under this para 
shall be withdrawn for the rest of the 
licensing period. The export/trading house 
will also be liable to actions under the 
Import & Export (Control) Act 1947, and 


the Order issued thereunder. A copy of 
the quarterly returns referred to here shall 
also be submitted by the export/trading 
house to the concerned sponsoring authority 
of the supporting manufacturer to whom 
the imported materials under this facility 
have been supplied. 

(4) In the case of sub-para (2) above where the 
items in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5—Part A proposed 
to be imported are already figuring in column 4 or 
column 5 (excluding items for which additional reple- 
msnment for specific items are granted) in 
Appendix 17 of this Policy against the relevant export 
product, the manufacturer-exporter will be eligible to 
import the items concerned either to the extent 
specifically permitted in Col. 4 or Col. 5 or general 
conditions, if any, laid down in Appendix 17 or to 
the extent permitted under sub-para (2) above, which¬ 
ever is more favourable to him. 

(5) The facility available in sub-para (1) above 
will also be available to manufacturers who are not 
registered exporters but whose select export products 
are exported by other manufacturer-exporters or 
merchant exporters. While submitting the application 
for issue of REP licence, the applicant exporter con¬ 
cerned will furnish a declaration giving the name and 
address of the manufacturer whose select products 
were exported stating that the REP licence may be 
issued in the name of the manufacturer with suitable 
endorsement under para 204. On such a declaration, 
the REP licence will be issued in the name of the 
manufacturer concerned with endorsement of ihe 
facility under this para in the same manner as laid 
down in sub-para (7) below. This provision is, 
however, not available (i) for issue of licences to 
other manufacturers of the same or similar products 
or (ii) manufacturers of packing materials of the select 
products concerned or (iii) to export/trading houses. 

(6) If an exporter claiming facility under this para 
requires a part value of the licence separately issued 
for importing column 4 or 5 items provided in 
Appendix 17 against the SI. Nos. in question, the 
port licensing authority concerned will consider such 
requests. However, the different restrictions relating 
to percentage or import of items specified in para 204 
will be available only for the face value of the remain¬ 
ing part of the licence for which an endorsement under 
para 204 is granted. 

(7) For availing of the facilities under this para, 
an endorsement on the REP licence is required from 
the licensing authority concerned. The licensing 



66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


authorities will work out separately the c.i.f. values 
of import of ite ms permissible under sub-para (2) 'of 
this para and specify such value limitations while 
making these endorsements. The following endorse¬ 
ment will be made by the licensing authority : 

“This licence is also valid for import of items 
permissible-under para 204(1) of the Import 
& Export Policy 1985-88 and shall t>e sub¬ 
ject to Actual User conditions as laid down 
in Schedule V to Imports (Control) Order 
1955. Items in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5 
Part A can be imported for the specified 
values given below subject to (i) the provi¬ 
sions of para 204(4) of the Policy in force 
on the date of endorsement and (ii) the 
relevant items continuing to be under these 
Appendices on the date of actual import. 


Sub-para 2(i)* for a value of Rs.,. 

. .(Rs.. 

...) 

but 

the value 




of 

a single 




item 

not to 




exceed Rs.... 




(Rs. 

...) 

Sub-para 2(ii) for a value of Rs... 

.(Rs.. 

-) 



Sub-para 2(iii) for a value of Rs.. 

,(Rs.. 

.) 


M 

Sub-para 2(iv) for a value of Rs.. 

.(Rs.. 

..) 


•• 

Sub-para 2(v) for a value of Rs... 

.(Rs.. 

• ) 


»* 

Sub-para 2(vi) for a value of Rs.. 

.(Rs.. 

.) 


• P 

Sub-para 2(vii) for a value of Rs .. 

. .(Rs. 



• » 

Sub-para 2(viii) for a value of Rs. 

..(Rs. 

...) 


•• 

Sub-para 2(ix) for a value of Rs.. 

.(Rs.. 

..) 


r i •• 


(8) Manufacturer-exporters seeking the facility 
provided in this para will be required to produce 
Export Performance Certificates issued by the Export 
Commissioner in the office of the Chief Controller of 
Imports & Exports, New Delhi, as per para 221 below 
as an evidence of having achieved the required level 
of export performance. This certificate will, however, 
be necessary only in case the manufacturer seeks en¬ 
dorsement for the higher value limit, if any, in col. 7 
of sub-para (2) of this para. 

(9) The facilities under this para will be available 
in respect of REP licences issued after 1-4-1985 
irrespective of the export period to which they belong. 
The endorsement made under para 204(1) of this 
Policy on REP licences issued after 1-4-1985 against 
exports effected prior to 1-4-1985 will also be subject 
to the conditions laid down in this Policy. 


Special Facilities for Units exporting 100% of their 
production 

205(1). Manufacturer-exporters who have been in 
production during the last 3 years and have exported 
100% of their production of select products during the 
preceding one year but are not approved as such under 
the scheme of 100% export oriented units, may be 
allowed to import any item appearing in Appendix 3 
and Appendix 5 Part A of this policy, within the 
overall value of valid REP licences acquired by trans¬ 
fer in accordance with the import policy in force. 
Such import shall be subject to the following condi¬ 
tions :— 

(i) The licensing* authority will allow endorse¬ 
ment upto a value not exceeding 100% of 
the value of REP licences obtained by the 
concerned unit during the preceding year 
against exports o[ such select products manu¬ 
factured by it, and which qualify for import 
replenishment at a rate not more than 50%, 

(ii) Requests for endorsement under this pro¬ 
vision will be entertained by the regional 
licensing authorities concerned, subject to 
the prescribed conditions. 

(iff) The request for endorsement should be 
accompanied by a photostat copy of the 
Export Performance Certificate issued by 
Export Commissioner under para 221 of 
this policy, showing that the unit concerned 
exported 100% of its production of select 
products during the preceding year. 

(iv) The request for endorsement should be 
accompanied by a list of items to be import¬ 
ed. The items should be those as are related 
to the select product(s) exported by the 
concerned unit or related to the select pro¬ 
ducts proposed to be manufactured (within 
his liccnce/rcgistration) and exported, and 
which appear in Appendix 3 or Appendix 5 
Part A of this policy. 

(v) The REP licence sought to be endorsed 
should have unutilised balance of at least 
3 months in its period of validity as on the 
date on which request for endorsement is 
received by the concerned licensing autho¬ 
rity. 

(vi) 


(•Indicate the relevant sub-paras only) 


The licence endorsed shall be marked "Non- 
transferable.” 




[»TFT I— VI l] 


WRtT THTtW: tTOtHTC"! 


67 


(vii) The list of select export products eligible for 
the facility under this provision is giver* in 
Appendix 12 of this Policy. 

(viii) Import of the following items shall not be 
allowed under this provision : — 

(a) Raw silk, silk fabrics/thread/yarn/ 
waste/noils. 

(b) Components/modules of electronic 
watches, clocks and time-pieces men¬ 
tioned in Appendix 5, Part A. 

(c) Instruments. 

(d) Items mentioned in Appendix 2 and 
Appendix 5 Part B. 

(ix) A condition shall also be imposed on the 
licence that it shall be subject to ‘Actual 
User’ condition and the entire production of 
select products of the unit shall be exported. 

(x) The manufacturer exporter availing of faci¬ 
lity under this provision will execute a legal 
undertaking to the effect t^at his entire pro¬ 
duction of select products will be exported 
within 18 months from the date of import of 
the first consignment. 

(xi) The licence holder shall furnish to the licens¬ 
ing authority concerned reports of imports 
and exports on a quarterly basis, withiu one 
month of the expiry of the concerned quar¬ 
terly period, giving c.ii. value, quantity and 
description of each item imported, and f.o.b. 
value, quantity and description of each pro¬ 
duct exported. 

(2) Manufactmer-exporters referred to in sub-para 
(1) above, will also be eligible to import Capital 
Goods (whether new or secondhand) under Open 
General Licence given in Appendix 23 of this Book, 
subject to the conditions laid down therein. 

Bulk Licences for Rough Diamonds 

206(1). Bulk Import licences may be issued for im¬ 
port of unset and uncut Diamonds to (i) Hindustan 
Diamond Co. Ltd., Bombay, (ii) MMTC, New Delhi, 
or (iii) any other agency duly approved by the Govern¬ 
ment for this purpose against foreign exchange released 
to them for such imports, for sale to holders of valid 
import licences. REP (including Imprest) licence hol¬ 
ders who wish to receive supplies from these agencies 
may approach them along with their licences and letters 
indicating their consent to purchase the material 


against the licence. In case the material sought to be 
released is against an Imprest licence issued to the 
applicant, the licence holder shall execute the requisite 
bond/ legal agreement for fulfilling the export obliga¬ 
tion with the licensing authority concerned before 
approaching the agency concerned. The licensing au¬ 
thority will suitably endorse the Icence relating to 
such execution of bond/legal agreement. 

(2) The agency concerned who receive - such re¬ 
quests may approach the licensing authority concerned 
for debiting the licences involved. No supply shall 
be effected by the agency concerned till both the 
copies of the licences involved have been suitably 
endorsed. 

(3) Application for issue of bulk import licences to 
the agencies concerned against foreign exchange re¬ 
leased to them by the Department of Economic Affairs, 
New Delhi, may be preferred to the licensing authority 
concerned. 

Re-export of Rough Diamonds 

207(1). In order to increase the unit value of export 
of cut and polished diamonds by use of appropriate 
rough materials, the re-export of imported diamonds 
(uncut and unpolished) other than those supplied by 
the agencies referred to in Para 206 of this policy 
may be allowed subject to the following conditions :— 

(i) The re-export does not exceed ten per cent 
of the c.i.f. value of replenishment (includ¬ 
ing Imprest), licences issued for uncut/un¬ 
polished diamonds, and 

(ii) Re-export made in accordance with these 
provisions will be eligible for import re¬ 
plenishment at the rate of 100 per cent of 
the c.i.f. value minus foreign exchange cost 
of such re-export of uncut/unpolished dia¬ 
monds including commission, etc. i.e. only 
net receipt of foreign exx:hange after meeting 
all expenses of such re-export. ‘ 

(2) Applications for replenishment licences against 
export of such rough diamonds may be preferred to 
the licensing authority concerned along with :— 

(a) Customs attested copies of shipping bills 
showing actual exports of roughs during a 
financial year ; 

(b) Photocopies of REP (including Imprest) 

’ licences, received by the applicants for 

import of uncut/un-polished diamonds for 
the financial year in (a) above ; and 



68 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(c) Full particulars relating to expenses lor such 
re-exports, including commission paid, if 
any. 

Loss ol Consignments of Gem & Jewellery items 

208. Consignments of Gem & Jewellery items ex¬ 
ported out of the country and lost in transit after 
export where foreign exchange against exports has been 
realised or insurance claims settled in foreign exchange, 
will be eligible for replenishment benefits as per pro¬ 
visions in Appendix] 17 of the policy. 

Sales to Foreign Tourists 

209(1). Sales to foreign tourists in respect of the 
following goods will qualify for import replenishment 
under the iniport policy for Registered Exporters : — 

(a) Gem and Jewellery; 

(b) Handicrafts; 

(c) Leather goods, namely, footwear, hand bags 
belts, purses, etc.; 

(d) Carpets, Rugs, druggets, durries and 
namdhas; 

(e) Cotton Sarees, Cotton dress materials. 
Cotton table linen, bed spreads, bed covers, 
cotton stoles, scarves, shawls and Cotton 
furnishing materials; 

(f) Ready-made garments, 

(g) Silk fabrics and made-up articles, including 
furnishing material; 

(h) Consumer electronic items;' 

(i) Disc records; 

(j) Books/stationery; and 

(k) Stainless steel utensils/cutlery. 

(2) Sales effected to foreigners against surrender of 
free foreign exchange at “Trade Fairs” (exhibitions 
arranged for special visiting delegations held under the 
aegis of T.F.A.I. or T.D.A. or Organisations like 
A.I.H.B., H.H.E.C., etc.) will be treated on par with 
sales to foreign tourists for the purpose of grant of 
REP benefits. 

Gift Scheme 

210. Under this Scheme, persons living abroad can 
buy goods manufactured in India against payment in 
free foreign exchange for the purpose of presentation 
as gifts to their friends and relations in India, The 
Central Cottage Industries Emporium has been 
designated as an agency to handle such mail order 
business from abroad. The goods sold by or through 


this agency under the Scheme will qualify for import 
replenishment licences to be issued to this agency, in 
accordance with the Import Policy for Registered 
Exporters. The agency can make a consolidated 
application, on quarterly, basis, for obtaining REP 
licences against items sold by them or through them 
under this scheme during that quarter. The REP 
licence will, however, indicate the items and their 
value separately in respect of each product sold, as 
admissible in Appendix 17. The documents in support 
should include a bank certificate showing remittance 
received in free foreign exchange from abroad and the 
relevant sale voucher giving dear description of the 
article, duly attested by the agency. 

Sales at duty-free shops in India 

211(1). Sales of goods manufactured in India, 
namely, cigarettes, liquors, electronic calculators, con¬ 
sumer electronic goods, watches, handicrafts and 
jewellery at duty-free shops against payment in free 
foreigp exchange will qualify for import replenishment 
licences in accordance with the import policy for 
Registered Exporters. 

(2) Any goods of foreign make may also be sold 
at duty-free shops in India against payment in free 
foreign exchange. Such sales will not be entitled to 
any REP benefits. 

Project Exports 

212. The following categories of contracts will be 
treated as Projects Exports :— 

(i) Turnkey projects, namely, those which 
involve the rendering of services like design, 
civil construction, erection and commission¬ 
ing of plant or supervision thereof, along 
with the supply of equipment. 

(ii) Engineering services contracts, involving the 
supply of services alone, such as design, 
erection, commissioning or supervision of 
erection and commissioning. 

(iii) Consultancy services contracts, which may 
include the preparation ol feasibility studies, 
project reports, preparation of designs and 
advice to the project authority on specifica¬ 
tions for plant and equipment, preparation 
of tender documents, evaluation of tenders 
and purchase of plant and equipment. 

(iv) Civil construction contracts, with or without 
preparation of designs or drawings for the 
civil work to be undertaken. 



junr I—an* 1 ] 


ST 7 ^ Tt TWTW . 


69 


213(1). The categories mentioned above arc not 
to be treated as mutually exclusive and a project 
contract could include supply of services or equip¬ 
ment, coming under more than one of the categories. 

(2) Turnkey projects may involve the extension 
of deferred payment terms to the buyer abroad, in 
the sense, that foreign exchange remittance, according 
to the contract, will not be completed within the 
time limit, after shipment, stipulated in the Foreign 
Exchange Regulations. For expeditious clearance of 
proposals for Turnkey projects, as also supply of 
equipment, on deferred payment terms, a Working 
Group of financial institutions has been set up which 
functions in the Industrial Development Bank of 
India. The Banks of the intending exporters can 
themselves clear proposals under powers delegated 
to them. Details in this regard will be found in the 
“Broad Guidelines to exporters of Engineering Goods 
on Deferred payment Basis and Turnkey Projects” 
published by the Industrial Development Bank of 
India/Reserve Bank of India/EXIM Bank. 

(3) Similar Guidelines in respect of construction 
projects, the proposals relating to which are also 
cleared by the Working Group of financial institutions, 
have been issued by the Reserve Bank of India. 

(4) Turnkey Project exporters will have to indicate 
the extent of import of equipment or machinery and 
related spares, tools and accessories envisaged by 
them, front a third country, into the project country 
for supply to the buyer as part of the project, when 
they forward their proposals for clearance according 
to the Broad Guidelines. Once the Bank or the 
Working Group, as the case may be, approves the 

‘ proposals, necessary permission for remittance of 
foreign exchange out of India will also be given by 
the Reserve Bank of India after completion of required 
formalities. No import licence will be required to be 
obtained for such third country imports into the 
project country. 

(5) The project contractors requiring construction 
equipment, machinery and related spares, tools and 
accessories for enabling them to execute the projects 
undertaken may buy such equipments, machinery and 
related spares, tools and accessories in the project 
country or from third countries. The proposed 
purchase of construction equipment, machinery and 
related spares, tools and accessories will have to be 
indicated to the Bank or the Working Group and 
clearance obtained as part of the proposals for which 
clearance is sought. After completion of the project, 
such equipments, machinery and related spaies, tools 
and accessories will be allowed to be imported into 


the country by the Customs authorities without pro¬ 
duction of an import licence- or a Customs Clearance 
permit. The project contractors shall give a declaration 
to the customs authority concerned that these 
equipmens, machinery and -related spares, tools and 
accessories imported/reimported were used for 
execution of the project (name of the project to be 
mentioned) and were either taken from India or 
purchased abroad for which necessary permission of 
the Reserve Bank of India or EXIM Bank of India/ 
1DBI or the Working Group of the EXIM Bank/ 
IDBI was obtained. Such contractors will also be al¬ 
lowed to re-import, without production of an import 
licence or a Customs clearance permit, office equip¬ 
ments which they had used during the course of exe¬ 
cution of their contracts aborad for at least one year 
on production of satisfactory evidence to this effect 
to the Customs authorities. 

214. Import replenishment licence will be issued in 
accordance with para 215 hereunder for the value of 
the items exported from India, whether or not these 
are supplemented by third country imports, for exe¬ 
cuting a project in accordance with para 212 and 
213 above, 

215. The Registered Exporter in such cases will 
have the option to claim import replenishment either 
at the rate applicable to the totality of exports covered 
by the project or at the rates applicable to individual 
parts of such exports. This option will be available 
only in cases where the project contract sets down the 
break-up of plant prices itemwise. When there is 
no such break-up in the contract, the exporter will be 
eligible to claim import replenishment only at the rate 
applicable to the plant as a whole. (These provisions 
apply to exports made on or after 12th January, 
1977). 

Exports through third party 

216. In respect of “third parly” exports, i.e, where 
all or any of the export documents contain the names 
of two parties, the import replenishment licence as 
admissible under the import policy for Registered 
Exporters may be claimed by any of these two parties 
provided" (i) the claimant is a Registered Exporter 
and is otherwise eligible under the policy, (ii) the 
claimant produces a certificate of “disclaimer” from 
the other party in his favour, and (iii) the party 
granting the disclaimer, is not itself debarred from 
receiving licences etc. under the Imports (Control) 
Order, 1955. 

Note It is clarified tha,t the provisions of this para 
will not apply to import licences having 
export obligation such as Advance licences, 



70 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


Special Imprest licences, Imprest licences, 
Import-Export Pass Books, and export ob¬ 
ligations fixed on approved 100% export 
oriented units. 

Assistance tor Products Development through Trade 

Development Authority 

217(1). Import of (a) samples, drawings, technical 
literature and specifications and initial small lots 
of raw materials, components, consumables, tooling 
and test equipment for product development may be 
allowed on the recommendation of Trade Development 
Authority to its clientele. Import applications will 
be forwarded by Trade Development Authority, Bank 
of Baroda Building, Parliament Street, New Delhi, 
to the regional licensing authorities concerned with 
their recommendations. Foreign exchange to cover 
the import will also be released by TDA out of the 
bulk allocation placed at its disposal by Government 
for the purpose. 

(2) TDA may recommend to the licensing autho¬ 
rities concerned the applications of its clientele for the 
grant of advance/imprest licences for import of raw 
materials and components under the relevant pro¬ 
visions made in this policy. 

(3) TDA may recommend the applications of its 
clientele for import of Capital Goods against REP 
licences under the relevant provisions of this policy. 

(4) The details of ‘Package of Services’ rendered 
by Trade Development Authority are given in Ap¬ 
pendix XIV-M of the Hand Book for Import-Export. 
Procedure 1985-88. 

Associate exporters of STC/MMTC 

218. An exporter securing export order through a 
public sector agency namely, STC or MMTC, and 
who exports the goods in execution of that order as 
associate of such agency can obtain imported materials 
off the shelf from them as replenishment admissible 
under the import policy for Registered Exporters, in 
the following manner :— 

(a) By handing over to the STC/MMTC the 
goods intended for export in execution of 
the export order in question; and 

(b) By handing over to the STC/MMTC the 
export documents in respect of the exports 
made in execution of the export order in 
question and surrendering his right to apply 
for import replenishment licence against the 
same exports, 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 

Surrender of valid REP licence 

219(1), Where a Registered Exporter obtains REP . 
licence for import of any items appearing in 
Appendices 2 Part-B or 3 of import policy, against 
his own exports, in accordance with the provisions 
made in Appendix 17 of this Book, it will be open to 
him to surrender the licence, within its initial validity 
period, to the licensing authority concerned, instead 
of importing the items, in question, against that 
licence. The unutilised cif value of such surrendered 
licence will be treated as the fob value of exports of 
select products of the concerned exporter for the 
purpose of computing his export performance to 
enable him to get the Export Performance Certificate 
referred to separately in this chapter and/or Export 
House Certificate/Trading House Certificate in 
accordance with the provisions made in. Chapter XXI 
of this Book. In such cases, only that unutilised 
part of the surrendered licence will be taken into 
account, which could have been utilised for the 
import of items appearing in Appendices 2 Part-B or 
3 of import policy, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions applicable t 0 the licence concerned. Value 
of REP licences surrendered will be accepted as f.o.b. 
value of exports for the financial year during which 
these have been surrendered. 

(2) On surrender of such REP licence, the 
licensing -authority will issue a certificate to the 
Registered Exporter indicating the unutilised cif 
value in the licence which could be utilised for import 
of items in Appendices 2 Part-B or 3 of import policy. 
The Registered Exporter will make use of this 
certificate for the purpose of obtaining Export 
Performance Certificate and/or Export House 
Certiflcatc/Trading House Certificate in accordance 
with the provisions made in the policy. 

Exports of new products or to new markets 

220(1). Registered Exporters exporting a new pro¬ 
duct or exporting products to a new market, will be 
eligible for REP licence against such exports under 
the import policy for Registered Exporters, in accor¬ 
dance with the provisions made in Appendix 17, at the 
rate of import replenishment higher by 10% of the 
normal rate i.c. 11 per cent instead of the normal 10 
per cent, and so on. This provision will be applicable 
only in respect of the products and the markets which 
may be specified for the purpose from time to time. 
New markets and/or new products specified in this 
regard are included in Appendix 24 to this book. 

(2) The above facility is intended to overcome the 
handicap which such exporters are likely to face, con- 



iTTTfl fa wra; 


71 


[*mr I — mv 1 ] 

sequent upon a comparatively lower fob value winch 
they may be able to realise as cost of first entry. 

Assistance to export oriented units 

221(1). Several provisions have been made in this 
policy to assist export production. Licensing authori¬ 
ties will render necessary assistance to exporting units 
to enable them to obtain their imported inputs in time 
for timely execution of export orders. 

(2) Manufacturer-exporters whose exports of select 
products in any of the two previous financial years are 
at least 25 per cent of their production, subject to a 
minimbm of Rs. 5 lakhs in value (f.o.b.), or whose 
exports of select products in any of the two previous 
financial years is at least Rs. 1 crore in value (f.o.b.), 
will receive special consideration in the matter of their 
import requirements, particularly for upgrading tech¬ 
nology and for product development. Procedural for¬ 
malities will also be cut down in their case as far as 
possible. 

(3) For the purpose of eligibility to the various 
benefits provided in the policy for export-oriented 
units (i.e. those having a minimum export perfor¬ 
mance laid down), such units should apply imme¬ 
diately to the Export Commissioner in the Office of the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, 
for obtaining Export Performance Certificate. For the 
purpose of calculation of export performance for the 
issue of Export Performance Certificate, Gross value 
of output including all direct and indirect costs of 
production, depreciation, interest, duties and taxes 
leviable, profits and over-beads, etc, will be taken 
into consideration. They wifi be able to avail of the 
benefits only on production of such Export Perfor¬ 
mance Certificate , to the licensing authorities concern¬ 
ed. Applications to the Export Commissioner should 
be sent in the form and manner as given in Appen¬ 
dix XIV-L of the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce¬ 
dures 1985—88, on or before 31st October of the 
licensing year. 

Registration of Export Contracts 

222. In order to provide stability for the growth 
of exports, a scheme is in operation for the registration 
of export contracts. The details are given in Appen¬ 
dix 20. 

Duty-free Imports against REP Licences 

223. There is a scheme to provide duty-free 
imports of raw materials against REP licences issued 
on the exports of specified products. The scheme is 
applicable to all Registered Exporters, exporting the 
products specified. REP licences fssued under the 
scheme will be freely transferable like other REP 


licences and will not be subject to “Actual User" 
condition. Details of the scheme are given in 
Appendix 21. 

Exports inadmissible for REP 

224(1). No REP benefits are admissible in the case 
of imported goods which are re-exported in the same 
state without undergoing any processing or manufac¬ 
turing operation in India. - 

(2) No REP benefits will be admissible under the 
Import Policy for Registered Exporters in the case of 
export of spares as free replacement during warrantee/ 
performance guarantee period. Also, value of such 
spares is not to be set-off against the REP entitlements 
of the exporters. / 

Utilisation of REP licences 

225. The REP licence wil be issued in the name 
of the Registered Exporter only and will not be subject 
to ‘Actual User* conditions, Except for cases covered 
by paras 195(2), 204, 263(2) and 265(1), a licence 
holder may transfer the licence in full or part in 
favour of any other person. The licence holder or such 
transferee may import the goods permitted therein but 
the facility of paragraphs 195(2), 196 and 202 shall 
not be available to any transferee, unless the trans¬ 
feree is himself a registered exporter and can satisfy 
the custom authorities at the time of clearance of the 
goods, of his bona fides. 

226. The transfer of the licence will not require any 
endorsement or permission from the licensing autho¬ 
rity i.e., it will be governed by the ordinary law. 
Accordingly, clearance of the goods covered by a 
REP licence issued under this policy, will be allowed 
by the customs authorites on producton by the 
transferee of only the document of transfer of the 
licence concerned in his name. Whenever an REP 
licence i s transferred, the transferor should give a 
formal letter to the transferee, giving full particulars 
regarding number, date and value of the licence trans¬ 
ferred and the name and address of the transferee, 
and complete description of the import items for 
which the licence is transferred. A copy of the trans¬ 
fer letter should be endorsed to the licensing autho¬ 
rity who issued the REP licence, for record. This 
procedure will also apply to subsequent transfers of 
the same licence. 

Other Scheme* 

227(i), Import-Export Pass Book Scheme (ii) Duty 
Exemption Scheme (iii) Imprest Licensing Schema 



72 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


(ivj Gold Jewellery Export Promotion Schemes 
(v) 100% Export Oriented Units Scheme and (vi) Im¬ 
port Policy for Registered Exporters in Free Trade 
Zones covered by the Registered Exporters Policy are 
given as separate Appendices in this Book. 


CHAPTER XV 

IMPORT-EXPORT PASS BOOK SCHEME FOR 
REGISTERED MANUFACTURER-EXPORTERS 

Objective t 

228. A new scheme, known as the Import-Export 
Pass Book scheme, is being introduced for manufac¬ 
turer-exporters to provide duty-free access to imported 
inputs for export production. This scheme is designed 
to simplify systems for export production by eliminating 
procedural delays. This scheme which is broader In 
its coverage than the Advance licensing scheme, will 
help the regular registered manufacturer-exporters to 
obtain their requirements of imported raw materials 
etc. duty free to suit their production/export time 
schedule. The need to apply repeatedly for Advance/ 
Imprest and REP licences will be eliminated with 
the issue of this pass book—which will serve as a 
single all purpose duty free import licence. 

Eligibility t 

229. This scheme will be applicable only to register¬ 
ed manufacturer exporters who have been in produc¬ 
tion and regularly exporting for a minimum period of 
3 years and who are otherwise eligible for issue of 
import licences. Import-Export pass bqok issued 
under this scheme shall be treated as a licence under 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and the 
Orders issued thereunder. The validity of such a 
pass book for the purpose of import shall be 18 months 
and for the purpose of exports, 27 months from the 
date of issue. 

Entitlement of Imports : 

230. A separate pass book for each export product 
shall be issued to the applicant. This pass book will 
indicate the value and items allowed for Import as 
well as the export obligation thereon. Import of only 
those items which are actually required in the manu¬ 
facture and export of products specified in the 
Import-Export Pass Book shall be allowed. Items 
falling under Appendix 2 Part A of the Import- 
Export Policy however, shall not be allowed Notwith¬ 


standing the permission that might have been granted 
to the holder of a pass book regarding the import of 
any item, in the event of its inclusion in Appendix 2 
Part A, such permission shall cease to operate and 
its further import from the date of such change of 
policy shall be disallowed. 

231. Each pass book holder would be required to 
give a minimum value addition of 33% on the c.i.f- 
value of imports or such higher value that might he 
prescribed keeping in view the import content in the 
export product. Subject to the minimum value addi¬ 
tion, the import entitlement will be worked out on 
the basis of the import content in the export product. 
For this purpose, first, for the export product con¬ 
cerned the base of expoprts will be worked out by taking 
the annual average exports during the preceding 3 
years plus 25% thereof or the best year’s exports of 
that product within preceding three years plus 10% 
thereof, whichever is more. On this base, applying 
the import entitlement percentage the annual import 
entitlement will be worked out. Maximum entitle¬ 
ment which may be allowed for import shall be 11 
times of this annual import entitlement, 

232. The exporters will be free to import within 
the overall value one or all items indicated in the 
pass book subject to the respective face value restric¬ 
tion, if any, indicated against individual items. 

233. All imports against the pass book shall be 
duty free. The holders of the pass book shall be 
allowed the facility of executing a legal undertaking 
and bond accompanied by a bank guarantee may not 
be insisted upon. 

234. Ail import and export transactions under 
the pass book scheme will be entered in the pass 
book by the customs authorities. 

Application ; 

235. An eligible registered exporter would be re¬ 
quired to apply to the concerned licensing office which 
is headed by an officer not below the rank of a 
Dy. CCI&E within whose jurisdiction, the registered/ 
head office of the company/firm is located. In case 
the office of the eligible importer falls within the juris¬ 
diction of a licensing office which is headed by an 
officer below the rank of a Dy. CCr&E, the applica¬ 
tion shall be directly made to the concerned zonal Jt. 
CCl&E. The Import-Export pass book may be issued 
on the payment of an application fee which will be 
worked out on the basis of the maximum value of im¬ 
ports allowed against the pass book to th ’ registered 
exporters as per para 231 above 



r -H i ^ tT-ff'Trf . ai*TOK u i 


n 


[«TRl—rir 1] 


Export OtoBgatto* t 

236. Each pass book will bear a suitable export 
obligation which shall be worked out in the inverse 
ratio to the imports entitlement. Shipping bills in ful¬ 
filment of the export obligation will bear the pass book 
number against which such exports are made. Exports 
made against the pass book in fulfilment of the export 
obligation mentioned therein will not be entitled for 
REP licences, nor for duty drawback. The holder of 
the pass book shall also not be entitled for issue of 
Advance Licences/Imprest Licences for that export 
product admissible against expotts under the norma] 
provisions of the Policy. Similarly, no REP licences 
against the excess entitlement that might accrue on 
account of exchange/price fluctuation, shall be ad¬ 
missible. Cash compensatory supper! benefits, if 
otherwise admissible, shall be admissible, on the lines 
of the advance licensing scheme. In other cases the 
above schemes would continue to be available. 

* 

237. The monitoring of the export obligation shall 
be done on 6 monthly basis by the respective licensing 
offices which have issued the pass book. In each 
such licensing office, designated officers will per¬ 
sonally review t^p import and export position as well 
as the fulfilment of export obligations that have 
become due at the end of 6 months period. 

238. Normally a period of 9 months shall be allow¬ 
ed to complete manufacturing process and effect 
exports. Therefore, the export obligation period on the 
imports made in the first quarter shall expire at the 
end of the fourth quarter, i.e. export obligation on the 
imports made in the quarter October to December 
will need to be fulfilled before the end of the quarter 
endmg September of the following year. 

239. The pass book shall be finally closed after full 
and final accounts of all imports and exports have been 
presented to the designated officer, At the end of 18 
months, the pass book shall cease to be valid for 
any further imports. Exports against that pass book 
can, however, be made till the expiry of the export 
obligation as per para 238 above but upto a maxi¬ 
mum of 27 months. The holder of the pass book 
within a period of one month from the date of last 
import/export shipment or 27 months from the date 
of issue of pass book, whichever is earlier, shall present 
all relevant documents along with the pass book to 
the designated officer. Any default in this regard may 
result in suspension of further imports against this nr 
any other pass book 'hat might bav* been issued with¬ 
out prejudice to any other actio* that may be taken 
in terms of legal unJrrtakl** or Imports and Exports 
58 GI/85—6. 


(Control) Act, 1947 and the Orders issued thereunder. 
A similar action may also be taken in the event of 
failure on the part of the pass book holder to remain 
present at the time of periodical reviews with the re¬ 
quired information as asked for by the designated 
officer, and for non-fulfilment of export obligation 
due. 

240. With a view to maintaining the continuity of 
production, eligible exporters shall be free to apply 
lor a fresh pass book at the end of 18 months which 
may be issued if export obligation, due upto that time 
has been fulfilled. 

Date of operation : 

241. The above provisions are in the nature of 
broad parameters of the scheme. Since all the rele¬ 
vant details of the scheme are still to be worked out 
as well as the forms and the pass books required for 
operation of the scheme are to be printed, the Pass 
Book Scheme shall be given effect from October 1, 
1985 as per provisions and details to be notified in 
due course before that date. 


CHAPTER XVI 
DUTY EXEMPTION SCHEME 

242. Duty Exemption Scheme also known as Ad¬ 
vance Licensing Scheme was initially introduced in the 
Import Policy for 1976-77. The details of this Scheme, 
as amended, with the procedures for issue of different 
categories of Advance Licences thereunder, are given 
in Appendix 19 of this policy. 


CHAPTER XVII 

IMPREST LICENSING SCHEME 

24 3, Hus Pofliey tmd Procedures relating to Imprest 
I ieenring Scheme :v .*ve been given in Appendix 53. 
of this Book 



74 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


CHAPTER XVIll 

GOLD JEWELLERY EXPORT PROMOTION 
SCHEMES 

244(1), The Scheme for export of gold jewellery 
against gold supplied by the foreign buyer, which was 
introduced vide Ministry of Commerce Public Notice 
No, 39-ITC(PN)/80 dated 14th October 1980 will 
continue to be in force during 1985—88. The details 
arc given in Annexure I to Appendix 22 

(2) The scheme for export of Gold Ornaments 
and Articles for sale at approved Exhibitions during 
1985-88 has been provided in Annexure II to 
Appendix 22, 

(3) The Scheme for Gold Jewellery Export Pro¬ 
motion and Replenishment of gold to exporters of 
gold ornaments and articles (other than coins) during 
1985-88 has been pro tided in Annexure ITT to 
Appendix 22 

(4) Tlie Scheme for setting up Special Export 
Oriented Complexes for manufacture of gold jewellery 
during 1985-88 has been provided in Annexure TV 
to Appendix 22. 

(5) The Scheme for manufacture of gold jewellery 
in Free Trade Zones during 1985—88 has been provid¬ 
ed in Annexure V to Appendix 22. 


CHAPTER XIX 

100% EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS SCHEME 

245, A copy of the Ministry of Commerce Resolu¬ 
tion dated 31st December, 1980, as amended, regard¬ 
ing 100% Export Oriented Units Scheme appears in 
Appendix 23. For facilitating easy reference, the 
different provisions relating to the 100% Export Ori¬ 
ented ETnits have also been incorporated in Appendix 
23 of this Policy. 


CHAPTER XX 

IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED EX¬ 
PORTERS IN FREE TRADE ZONES 

246. The pohey and procedure for Import of 
Capital Goods, raw materials etc. by units In Free 
Trade Zones are given in Appendix 15, 


CHAPIEK XA1 

EXPORT HOUSES AND TRADING HOUSES 
PART A 

EXPORT HOUSES 

247. The objective of the scheme of registration of 
Export Houses and the grant of special facilities to 
them is to strengthen their negotiating capacity in 
foreign trade and to build up a more enduring 
relationship between them and their supporting 
manufacturer*. 

Eligibility 

248(1). Appendix 16 gives the list of products for 
export which are treated as “Select Products”. All 
other products shall be treated as ‘‘Non-select 
Products”. The eligibility for the grant of Export 
House Certificates shall be determined on the basis of 
the exports actually made in the preceding three 
financial years which shall be treated Ms the base 
period. 

(2) Applications will be considered subject lo the 
following conditions :— 

(a) The annhal average f.o.b. value of exports in 
the prescribed base period of Select Pro¬ 
ducts, should not be less than Rs. three 
crores or those of non-select Products, 
Rs. seven crores. 

(b) The prescribed minimum set down above 
Shall be only Rs. 75 lakhs and Rs. 3 crores 
respectively in the case of a Small Scale 
Unit holding permanent registration certifi¬ 
cate issued before 1st April of the licensing 
year by the sponsoring authority concerned 
as given in Appendix V-A of the Hand Book. 
At least 50% of the export should be direct 
exports of its own manufacture. 

(c) There will have to be exports in each one 
of the three years covering the prescribed 
base period; the exports in each one of the 
three years will have to be at least 10 per 
cent of the exports in the preceding year. 
Subject to this, exports of only those pro¬ 
ducts will qualify for recognition as have 
been made cguhily by the xj plicunt at least 
during any of the two years of the prescribed 
three-year base period 



I—1] 


•-KP7T ttt ttstw ■ surorrwr 


75 


(d) Direct export* made In the name of rt<t 
applicant, as evidenced by the following 
documents, will be counted : — 

(i) Export orders/expoit contracts (in his 

own name). 

(ii) Bank certificate* (in his own name). 

(iii) Invoices (whether or not they indicate 
the name of the manufacturers of the 
goods exported) in his own name, 

(iv) Exports made as an associate of the 
State Trading Corporation or other 
similar public sector enterprise may also 
be counted if such exports are other¬ 
wise acceptable provided— 

(a) all the REP benefits on the exports 
in question have been made avail¬ 
able to the applicant, 

(b) the name of the applicant appears 
in any of the relevant documents, 
with or without the name of the 
Public Sector Enterprise, and 

(c) the Public Sector Enterprise 
certifies that the applicant has 
made a significant effort in effecting 
the connected export* 

(e) The value of the export of Select Products 
may be reckoned for making up any 
deficiency in the prescribed minimum ex¬ 
ports of Non-select Products. 

(f) Invisible earnings of foreign exchange by 
way of erection charges, consultancy/colla¬ 
boration fees, ship repair, net foreign 
exchange earned by way of commission 
received from foreign buyers towards ser¬ 
vices rendered to them in execution of 
export orders placed by them in India, and 
the like will also count on par with Select 
Products for determining eligibility. The 
net earnings by way of commission will, 
however, be counted only to the extent of 
not more than 10 per cent of the minimum 
prescribed fob value of exports on the basis 
of which Export House Certificate can be 
claimed under the policy. 

(g) In determining the eligibility of an applicant, 
other than n small scale manufacturer, the 
value of the exports of he product* mad* 


by small scale industries will be reckoned at 
twice the actual f.o.b. value of such exports. 

(h) In determining the eligibility of an applicant, 
exports of new products and/or to new 
markets, as defined amd laid down, made 
during the preceding financial year will be 
reckoned at twice the actual fob value of 
such exports. 

(i) “Deemed” exports referred to in para 190 
will count on par with other exports. 

(j) Foreign exchange earnings on account of 
royalties for books will be treated on par 
with exports of select products for eligibility 
purpose. 

(k) The applicant is registered with F.l.E.O. 

Note : (1) It may be clarified that only a Registered 
Exporter can apply for Export House 
certificate. 

(2) For the purpose of granting eligibility 
certificate or their renewal, the minimum 
export performance shall be taken as the 
annual average of the three years of the 
base period or the exports in the 
Immediately preceding year, provided the 
applicant fulfils the conditions laid down 
in para 248(2)(c) above: 

(3) Re-exports falling under para 224 will 
not qualify for eligibility purpose. 

(4) For the purpose of granting eligibility 
certificates or their renewal and for 
calculating entitlement for Additional 
licences, the exports of fresh fruits/ 
vegetables, cut flowers and decorative 
plants shall be treated on par with the 
export of select products manufactured 
by small scale units. 

249. The following aspects will also be considered 
in determining the eligibility : — 

-(a) structure, functioning and trade develop¬ 
ment programmes of the applicant, 

(b) his managerial capacity including technical, 
financial and services resources, testing faci¬ 
lities and other quality control measures 
adopted by him, etc , and 



76 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


(c) involvement in the export of the products of 
small scale industries as well as the assis¬ 
tance by way of availability of imported 
inputs and the like provided to supporting 
manufacturers. 

Note : —It n expected that Export Houses will 
drvjsifv their range of export products; 
however, diversification would not necessa¬ 
rily mean export of goods from more than 
one product group. 

Export Houses of Small Scale Industries 

250(1). To encourage and assist the export efforts 
of small scale units on their own, such units holding 
permanent registration certificate granted before 1st 
April of the licensing year by the sponsoring autho¬ 
rity concerned will be permitted to set up Consortia 
to organise the sales of their own products abroad. 
Similarly, a co-operative society of small scale units 
will also be permitted to do so. Such Consortium or 
a co-operative society of small scale units will be 
eligible for grant of an Export House Certificate on 
the following basis :— 

(a) the applicant is a corporate body or a part¬ 
nership firm or a Cooperative Society having 
a distinct legal entity and is .registered as 
an Exporter. 

(b) all the members of the applicant Consortium 
are small scale or cottage units. New 
members can also join the consortium 
after the issue of Export House Certificate 
with the approval of Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports. However, there 
shall he a minimum of two SSI units for a 
consortium. If the number of such unit* 
at any time falls below this minimum limit, 
the hoMer of the certificate should imme¬ 
diately inform this fact to the CCI&E. In 
such a case, the Export House Certificate 
issued shall also automatically cease to be 
valid for operation 

(c) the minimum limit prescribed for Select Pro¬ 
ducts or ncin-select products for grant of the 
Certificate will he Rs. 75 lakhs or Rs. 3 
ci ores respectively, (.The minimum export! 
may hr eitli'.r in the immediately preceding 
year or as the annual at mage of the three 
years ot (he base period). There will have to 
be expoAS ip each one cf me three juum 
covering the prescribed base period; the 
exports in cadi one of m ihrcc year* wii 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


have to be atlesat io per cent of the exports 

in the preceding year. 

(2) Such consortium obtaining REP licences on 
the exports of products manufactured by its member 
units, will be eligible to the facility provided in para 
204, for the import of raw materials, components, 
consumables, spares and packing materials required by 
its member units, subject to the conditions laid down 
therein. 

(3) For the purpose of granting the first Export 
House Certificate to the consortium, direct exports of 
products manufactured by its member units will alone 
be taken into account, if otherwise acceptable. There¬ 
after, for the purpose of renewal, the exports made 
in the name of the consortium alone will be accept¬ 
able and atleast 50% of the direct exports should be 
of its constituents own manufactures. 

Applications for the grant of Export House Certi¬ 
ficates 

251. Eligible applicants should submit their appli¬ 
cations to (he Chict Controller of Imports & Exports, 
New Delhi, on or before 31st May of the licensing 
year in the prescribed form and manner as in Appen¬ 
dix XXI-A of the Hand Book of Import-Export 
Procedures, 1985—88. The statement of exports on 
which the application is based should be certified by 
a Chartered or Cost Accountant or Company Secre¬ 
tary who is not a partner, a Director or an employee 
of the applicant firm or its associates. The following 
documents should also accompany the application :— 

(1) The relevant certificate from the public 
sector enterprise in respect of exports made 
through them. 

(2) Detailed information about the applicant’s 
competency as required above. 

252. In the case of firms/companies, having bran¬ 
ches, while the application for the grant of Export 
House Certificate may be made only by the Regis¬ 
tered/Head Office, it will be open to them to have the 
Export House Certificate issued either in the name of 
the Registered/Head Office or in the name of any of 
its branches. Othei conditions subject to which an 
application for Export House Certificate can be enter¬ 
tained under this policy will remain unchanged. 

Applications for renewal of Export House Certificate* 

253. A registered exporter holding an Export Hous* 
Certificate, the validity of which Is due to expire in 
the licensing year or on the lait day of the preceding 



['ATT I—l] 


wur rr trait: 3rrrram 


77 


financial year, may apply for its renewal if the require¬ 
ments given below are fulfilled. The application 
should be sent to the CCI&E, New Delhi, on or before 
the 31st May of the year in which renewal is sought. 

(i) The applicant satisfies the conditions stipu¬ 
lated in the preceding paras regarding grant 
of recognition as an Export House; 

(ii) The applicant shows a minimum annual 
average growth rate of at least 20% in 
the prescribed base period or in the 
immediately preceding year, as compared 
to the preceding 3 years of the pre-base 
period. This annual average growth rate 
will be calculated on the net foreign exchange 
realisation in the prescribed base period or 
immediately preceding year, as compared 
to the immediately preceding three years in 
the pre-base period. For this purpose, the 
net foreign exchange realisation would be 
the total f.o.b. value of admissible exports 
minus the c.i.f. values of all categories of 
Imprest licences, Advance licences, Special 
Imprest licences, RfcP licences and Import- 
Export Pass Books, if any issued/eliglble 
during the relevant year. 

(iii) The applicant seeks the renewal of export 
house certificate for the same category for 
which he was issued this certificate earlier. 
A switchover to another category for 
renewal will not be permitted. As such, 
an applicant recognised as export house 
earlier on exports of select products will 
not be eligible for renewal based on exports 
of non-select products or vice-versa. 

254. Applications which do not fulfil the prescribed 
requirements are liable to be rejected. However, in 
respect of an applicant who has been a recognised 
Export House continuously for six preceding years, 
the Export House Committee may consider the 
request for renewal, in the following types of cases, 
subject to the conditions prescribed in para 255 
below :— 

(i) The shortfall in the prescribed growth rate 
is not more than 25% i.e. growth rate 
achieved is not less than 15%; 

(ii) The shortfall in the minimum export 
performance prescribed for each year of 
the base period is not more than 25% Le. 
exports me not less than 7.5% cl the 
exports of the preceding year. 


255. (i) The renewal of an export. House Certificate 
in the types of cases referred to in para 254 above 
shall be subject to #he ioirt a rug conditions:— 

(i) Renewal will be valid only till the end of 
the financial year in which ii E granted; 

(ii) The shortfall in the aforesaid conditions will 
be made good over and above the minimum 
level of performance prescribed duiing the 
period for which renewal is granted; 

(Hi) If the shortfall is only in one of the afore¬ 
said two conditions in para 254 above, a 
minimum cut of 1 /3rd shall be imposed 
on (a) the value of the Additional licence 
due and (b) value of spares permissible for 
import vide para 265(6) of this Policy. 

(iv) If the shortfalls are there in both of the 
conditions referred to in para 154 above, a 
minimum cut of 2/3rd on (a) the value of 
the Additional licence due, and (b) value 
of spare parts permissible ior import vide 
para 265(6) of this Policy, wiii be imposed. 

(2) Requests for renewal which are not covered 
by paras 254 and 255 above shall be rejected. 

256. A registered expuitu who has lucid a valid 
Export House Certificate lor a period of 3 years or 
more and whose validity opirsd during any of the 
preceding three financial vearr bul the Export House 
Certificate was not renewed because of non-fu lfilm ent 
or requirements prescribed for renewal in the relevant 
year, will not be eligible for beiug considered for 
grant of a fresh Export House Certificate in the 
licensiug year. However, he can also apply for 
renewal in the licea-nig year and his request for 
renewal can be considered if he (n) fulfils the 
conditions for the grant of an Export House Certificate 
prescribed in the policy &■, m the date of application 
for renewal; and (b) fulfils the conditions for the 
renewal of the Export House Certificate for the 
intervening period during which he did not have a 
valid Export House Certificate as per conditions 
applicable during that period. In such a case, the 
renewal, if granted, wdl be effective from the year 
in which it is granted. 

257. The minimum growth rate to be shown for 
renewal by a SSI Export House or SSI Consortium 
Export House whose annual average exports of select 
or non-select products air not (ess than Its. 1.5 crores 
or Rs. 6 crores respectively, or other Export Houses 
whose annual average exports of select or non-select 



78 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


products are not less than Rs. 7 crores or Ks. 1-1 
crores respectively will be 15% instead, of the normal 
20%. If, however, there is a shortfall in the growth 
rate not exceeding 25% of 15%, requests for renewal 
of Export House Certificate may be considered subject 
to the conditions and cuts prescribed in para 255 
above. 

258. The Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
may also consider applications for renewal of Export 
House Certificates in cases where the applicants 
having achieved the necessary growth rate prescribed, 
has fallen short of the enhanced minimum export per¬ 
formance limi ts laid down in paras 248 and 250 above, 
In doing so, the Export House will be given time for 
one year (until the end of the financial year in which 
such renewal is granted i to make up the short-fall in 
the minimum export performance limit prescribed. 

259. Application for renewal of export house 
certificate will be made in the same manner as 
prescribed above for initial grant of recognition 
certificate, but in the form prescribed for renewal in 
Appendix XXI-B of the Hand Book 

Validity of an Export House Certificate 

260(1). An Export House Certificate may be valid 
for a period of 3 financial years in cases where it has 
been granted on the basis of annual average of 3 years 
of the base period of export performance. Where 
an Export House Certificate is issued on the basis 
of the exports in the immediately preceding year, it 
will be valid for one year only, i.e., till the end of 
the financial year in which it is granted. Similarly, 
Export House Certificates renewed specifically fo r 
one financial year as per para 255 will be valid till 
the end of the financial year in which these are rene¬ 
wed. 

(2) It may be clarified that an existing Export 
House Certificate valid beyond 30th June, 1985, will 
continue to be valid till the expiry date even if it is 
based on an export performance lower than the 
enhanced minimum export performance limits fixed 
in tills Policy. However, Export House Certificates 
shall be subject to suefi amendments in the Policy as 
may be made from lime to time. 

Import fucllitfts in tillable to Export Hoaxes 

261. Expert Houses will ne granted the following 
facilities under this policy : — 

(i) Import replenishment (REP; licence* 
admissible to them as Registered Exporters : 


(ii) import replenishment (REP) licences trans¬ 
ferred to them by others ; 

(iii) Import of items placed on Open General 
Licence in the manner set down here¬ 
under ; 

(iv) Additional licences as provided hereunder : 

(v) Imprest licence to the extent of 100% of 
the value of REP licences earned against 
iheir own exports made during the previous 
year ; 

(vi ) Export Houses may be allowed to import 
Capital Goods against REP/Additional 
licences to enable them to set up common 
servicing centres for the benefit of their 
supporting manufacturers and other export¬ 
ing units. Applications for such import 
will be considered by the Chief Controller of 
Imports (EP III Section), New Delhi in 
consultation with the technical authority 
concerned ; 

(vii) Export Houses may also be allowed to im¬ 
port non-OGL Capital Goods (other than 
tnose in Appendix 1 Part A) upto Rs. 20 
lakhs (cif) during the licensing year as per 
para 51 of this Policy. 

(vui) Import of one Electronic Telephone Ex¬ 
change for use in its own office(s) as laid 
down in sub-para (9) of para 145 of 
this Policy provided the export house has a 
minimum export of select products of Rs. 5 
crores or non-select products of Rs. 10 
crores in the preceding financial year ; 

(ix^ 1 he export house whose export perfor¬ 
mance in the previous financial year is not 
less than Rs. 1 crore may be allowed to 
import technical designs, drawings and other 
documentations for a value not exceeding 
Rs. 10 lakhs for supply to its supporting 
manufacturer! (referred to in para 204(3)(ii) 
of this Policy) against REP/Additional 
licences issued in favour of the export 
house. 

1RMAC FudlHles to Export Houses 

262(1). Export House* whose annual export per¬ 
formance is not less than Rs. 7 crores will be allowed 
IRMAC (Industrial Raw Materials Assistance Centre) 
facilities, u> that <mcb Export Houses may supply 
raw material* snd components (non-canalised items 



[■tmr I—^ A 


«rpst w trspra'. amTOTW 


79 


^T^AOual U*c> ott-lbe-»h6l( agamil .abd im¬ 
port licence* held bv s«* Aciual User*. 

,2, This facility will also be allowed to txport 

HoUs which .how in the ptecedin s J»f • 
growth of 50 per cent in their exports of select pr 
Cs SO iec. to their total exports of select produc 
to®; year before the preceding fear bemg not less 
than Rs. 4 crores in value. 


Import of items placed on OGL 

263(1) Export Houses will be allowed to import 
OGL items against REP licences j^ued in then^own 
name or transferred to them by others. Thisjac > 
will be available to them for the import of . 

(a) Capital Goods (listed in Appendix 1 Pan 
B). 


(b) 


Raw materials, components and consum¬ 
ables which have been placed on Open 
General Licence for Actual Users (Indus¬ 
trial), in Part II of List No. 8 in Appendix 
6 of this Book, as per conditions laid 

down. 


(c) 


Spares which have been placed onOpen 
General Licence for Actual Users (Indus 
trial), as per conditions laid down. 


(2) REP licences against which Export Houses 
wish to take advantage of the facility provided in 
sub-para (1) above shall be non- transfer able. 

(3) Export Houses who wish to take advantage of 
this facility of import of OGL items should get the 
licences concerned endorsed by the licensing autho¬ 
rity as under :— 

“This licence will also be valid foi impoii oi 
OGL items under para 263 of Import-Ex¬ 
port Policy, 1985—88 (Vol. I), subject to 
the conditions laid down, and shall be non- 

transferable”. 


(4) Goods imported by Export Houses under this 
facility will be disposed of as under • 

(i) Capital Goods will be disposed of to eligible 
Actual Users (Industrial) only and intima¬ 
tion thereof shall be sent to the licensing 
authority and the sponsoring authority con¬ 
cerned, within 15 days from the date of sale 
or transfer of goods *0 the Actual User, 
giv'iBj Uuf following irkformatioa 

(a) flam.- and full Address of the Actual 

User (Industrial) ; 


lhe address of the factory of the Actual 
User (Industrial) ; and the end-product 
manufactured by him . 

(c) Number and date of industrial licence/ 
registration of the Actual User (Indus¬ 
trial) ; 

(d) Description of the Capital Goods sold or 
transferred to the Aciual User (Indus¬ 
try!) ; and 

(c) Date of sak/trans f er. 

00 Raw Materials, components and consum¬ 
ables will be disposed of 1o eligible Actual 
Users (Industrial), and intimation about the 
same shall be given by the Export House 
in the periodical returns to be furnished 
under para 269 of this policy. 

(iii) Spares mav be disposed of to any person. 

(5) Import of OGL items by Export Houses under 
these provisions shall be subject to the condition, 
inter alia, that the shipment of goods shall take place 
within the validity of the OGL i.e. 31st March of 
the licensing year or within the validity period of 
the import licence itself (without any grace period), 
whichever date is earlier, 'ibis restriction will also 
apply to licences issued before '1st April of the licens¬ 
ing year, in respect of items which continue to be 
on OGL in the licensing year. r J he condition for 
registration of contract.; as applicable to the Import 
of items under OGL in Appendix 6 will also apply 
for import of such OGL items by Export Houses 
under these provisions, 

(6) Export Houses are not allowed to import 
components placed on OGL, for Actual Users 
(Industrial) and appearing in Part I of List No. 8 in 
Appendix 6 of this Book. However, if the Export 
House has to meet the requirement of imported 
components for an exigible Actual User (Industrial), 
it may be allowed to import such components 
against REP licence with a specific endorsement made 
thereon by the licensing authority concerned. For 
this purpose, the Export House will iurnish to the 
concerned sponsoring authority the name and address 
of the Actual User (Industrial), the description and 
the number (quantity) of each component to be 
imported, tuid their total (value. The sponsoring 
authority will scrutinise the li t of components and 
dear only those items for import as are in conformity 
with the implementation of the approved phased 
manufacturing programme of the unit concerned. The 



80 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA': EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


list of such components, duly attested, will be supplier 
by the sponsoring authority to the Export House, for 
production to the licensing authority concerned tor 
obtaining the required endorsement on the licence. 
After importation, such components will be supplied 
by the Export House only to the Actual User for 
whom these were meant. The disposal of these 
components shall be duly reported in a separate part 
in the prescribed quarterly returns to be furnished to 
the CCI&E, New Delhi and the licensing authority 
concerned in accordance with the provisions made in 
the import policy. (The same procedure will apply 
for impoit and disposal of components by Export 
Houses under the flexibility provided in para 204 of 
this book). 

(7) Goods obtained by Actual Users (Industrial) 
from Export House undei this provision shall be 
subject to ‘Actual User’ condition. 

Application for Licences 

264(1). Applications for Additional Licences in 
the prescribed form given in Appendix XX1-C of the 
Hand Book may be made upto 30th September of 
the licensing year by those holding Export House 
Certificates valid beyond 30th June of the licensing 
year. Fresh applicants or those whose certificates 
expire on 30th June of the licensing year may apply 
for grant of Additional Licence within two months 
after securing the Export House Certificates concern¬ 
ed. All applications of Export Houses for Additional 
Licences shall be made to the licensing authority con¬ 
cerned within the area of whose jurisdiction the 
address in the Export House Certificate is shown, 

(2) However, in respect of applications for issue 
of REP licences, wherever eligible, such applications 
may be made to the licensing authority under whose 
jurisdiction the registered/ head office or branch of 
the export house effecting the export falls. The branch 
office will be eligible to apply only if it is separately 
holding a R.C.M.C. or is included in the R.C.M.C. 
issued to the registered/head office. All euuorscments 
relating to REP licences other than the endorsements 
relating to facilities referred to in para 261 (ii) to 
(ix) above may be effected by the same licensing 
authority. 

(3) Export House will be eligible lor additional 
licence for the period(s) for which the export house 
certificate is valid. However, the items permissible 
will be those allowed under the Policy on the date of 
issue of the licence. It ma*' not, therefore, be neces¬ 
sary, for an applicaut export hous< to hold a valio 
export house certifies-c ar the tunc of submission of 


the application for Additional licence, if otherwise 
due. 

Additional Licences 

265(1). The value of Additional licences to be gran¬ 
ted in a licensing year under the policy will be calcu¬ 
lated at 6S7> of the net foreign exchange earned on 
total exports of select products (vide Appendix 16) 
plus 5% of the f.o.b. value of exports of select pro¬ 
ducts manufactured by small scale and cottage indus¬ 
tries, made in the preceding year. Such Additional 
licences shall be non-transferable. While calculating 
the value of Additional licence, net foreign exchange 
earned would be arrived at by deducting the value of 
Advance/Special Imprest/Imprest/REP licences/ Import 
Export Pass Book issued or their eligibilities for 
these during the preceding year from the gross f.o.b. 
value of exports of select products. 

(2) For the purpose of calculating the entitlement 
for Additional Licence, the value of exports of Select 
ffi-oducts carrying impoit replenishment rate of more 
than 50% in. Appendix 17 of the Import Policy in 
the preceding year, shall not be taken into account. 
Also, exports made in discharge of the export obliga¬ 
tion against Import-Export Pass Book/Advance/ 
Imprest/Special Imprest licences carrying more than’ 
50 per cent import content, will not be taken into 
account. The Export Houses should not, therefore, 
include the value of such exports while applying for 
Additional Licences. 

(3) In respect of the following export products, 
if the export house is unable to give the names of 
manufacturers concerned, his declaration to the effect 
that the goods exported were manufactured by SSI/ 
cottage sector units, may be accepted for the purpose 
of determining the entitlement for Additional 
licence : — 

(i) Agarbattis, Dhoop and incense. 

(ii) Leather manufactures including finished 
leather and paint brushes. 

(iii) Sport* goods. 

(iv) Spice* said curry powder and pastes. 

(v) Hand made carpeu, druggets, durries, 
namdhns and ruga. 

(vi) Ready-made garment* and made-up article*. 

(vii) Khadi. 

(vili) Hosiery 

!tx) Hand loom fabric* 



['flT’T I—l] 




81 


(x) Handicraft*. 

(xi) Canned and frozen marine products, 

(xii) Gem & Jewellery items. 

Note :—Please see Note (4) below para 248. In 
respect of their exports of fresh fruits,/vege- 
tables, cut flowers and decorative plants, it 
will not be necessary for export houses to 
give names of SSI units. 

(4) The Additional Licence so granted to export 
houses will be valid for import of the items appearing 
in Part H of List 8 of Appendix 6. 

(5) The Additional Licences will also bo valid for 
import of Capital Goods listed in Appendix 1 Part B 
which have been placed on Open General Licence for 
Actual Users (Industrial!. This facility will be sub¬ 
ject to the same conditions as laid down in paia 263 
above, except that the endorsement referred to iu 
sub-para 263(3) will not be required in the case of 
Additional licences which are already non-transfei- 
«blo. 

(6) Additional Licences will also be valid for 
import of spares of the items falling under following 
Heading Nos. of Schedule I to the imports (Control) 
Order, 1955 (as reproduced in Appendix I-B of the 
Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures) :— 


84.12 

84.51 

85.18 


84.15 

84.52 

85.19 


84.22 

84.53 

85.20 


84.24 

84.54 

85.23 


84.25 

85.06 

85.24 


84.32 

85.07 

87.01 


84.33 

85.08 

87.02 


84.35 

85.09 

87.03 


84.41 

85.12 

Chapter 

90 

84.47 

85.15 

Chapter 

91 



Chapter 

92 

The import of these sparr, 

shall be 

subject to the 

conditions that (l) 

the c J. 

value of 

the spares mi- 

ported shall In ill not exceed 

! Ri two lakhs per Ex* 


port House, wtthii the value of the Additional 
Licence, and (ii) itemj appearing in the Appendices 
2, 3, 5 Part A, 8 and 10 ihall not be allowed. The 
value limit of Rs, 2 laths will be Rs. 5 lakha in the 
case of export homes jvboee export! of select products 
In the preceding hnaneb! yc.T were Rj. 5 crores(FGfD 
In value or above and for Expoir Houses referred .i 
in «ub-para 262(2) above. 


(7) Goods imported by export houses against 
Additional licences will be disposed of by them in 
the same manner and subject to the same conditioni, 
as laid down in para 263 above. 

Foreign Exchange for promotional activities 

266(1). The Reserve Bank oE liuda may allow an 
Export House to utilise foreign exchange upto 2.5% 
of the f.o.b. value of its total exports in the preceding 
year for the following purposes :— 

(a) Foreign Exchange expenditure on promo¬ 
tional activities permitted under the Code of 
Grants-in-Aid for export efforts; and 

(b) Import of testing instruments and equipment 
for packing and tagging and their spares, 
duly cleared from indigenous angle, and re¬ 
quired for setting up Common Service 
Centres. 

(2) The permit issued by the Reserve Bank of 
India in regard to above will be valid for a period of 
one year from the date of its issue. 

267. The above limit of 2.5% will be subject to a 
naximum of Rs. 10 lakhs and any amount in excess 
thereof shall be adjusted against the REP entitlement 
of the Export House on its own exports. The upper 
limit of Rs. 10 lakhs will be Rs. 20 lakhs in the 
case of export houses whose exports of select pro¬ 
ducts in the preceding year were atleast Rs. 5 crores 
in value (FOB), and for exporr houses referred to in 
para 262(2) above. 

268. The procedure to be followed in this regard 
is given in Appendix 18. 

Reporting and Control 

269(1). Every Export House shall maintain true 
and proper accounts of its exports, imports and dis¬ 
posal of imported items. These shall be open for 
inspection by any authority nominated by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. They 
shall furnish to Export Houses Cell in Statistical 
Division, Office of CCLfefc, New Delhi, within one 
month following the dose of the period, quarterly 
statements, in the form prescribed in the Hand Book 
of Import-Export Procedures, 1985—-88 (Appendix 
XXI-D) pertaining to receipt find dispoiai of imported 
items against (i) their own licences; (ii) licences trans¬ 
ferred by others; and (iii) Additional licences. Copies 
of such statements should aI*o be sent to the licensing 
anthority/sponsoring authority concerned of each of 
Actual user (Industrial) to whom the imported good* 
hive been disposed of. Expoii Housei will also send 



82 


THE GAZETTE OE 1 NDIA: extraordinary 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (E.P. 
Ill Section), New Delhi copies of their detailed 
schemes and action programmes for export and 
annual returns of export effected, commodity-wise 
and country-wise, sent by them to the Federation of 
Indian Export Organisations, as provided in the Hand 
Book of Import-Export Procedures, 1985-88, 

(2) It should be noted that Export Houses have 
to furnish separate quarterly reports pertaining to 
import and disposal of the materials brought in under 
para 204 of this Book, and for the import and dis¬ 
posal of components imported by them against REP/ 
Additional licences in accordance with the provisions 
made in the policy. 

270. Any change in the constitution, name or 
ownership of an Export House shall be forthwith inti¬ 
mated to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, and the licensing authority concerned. In 
such an event, the Export House shall cease to enjoy 
the facilities provided under this policy, until and un¬ 
less the connected Export House status has been got 
approved by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi, in favour of the new or reconsti¬ 
tuted body. 

Refusal to grant/ renew Export House Certificate and 
cancellation/suspenslon of Export House Certificate 

271(1). If the applioant has on any occasion dar¬ 
ing the previous three years, tampered with the im¬ 
port/export licence; or 1ms been a party to any corrupt 
or fraudulent practice in its commercial dealings or 
in obtaining any licence; or il any agent or employee 
of the applicant has been a party to any corrupt or 
fraudulent practice in obtaining the licence, under 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act or any con¬ 
dition of licence granted under Import/Export Con¬ 
trol Order or commits a breach of Import and Ex¬ 
port Trade Regulations, the Chief Controller of Im¬ 
ports and Exports may refuse to grant/renew Export 
House Certificate for a period to be specified, after 
giving a Show Cause Notice. 

(2) An Export House Certificate may be can¬ 
celled, amended, or otherwise rendered ineffective :— 

(a) if the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports is satisfied that it had been obtained 
by misrepresentation or issued by oversight; 
or 

(b) If the Export House commits a hreacb of the 
Import-Export Policy; or 


(c) il the Export House is found, on a com¬ 
plaint received from a foreign buyer, to have 
committed a breach of contract or indulged 
in unfair trade practices; or 

(d) if the Export Hous® fails to discharge an 
export obligation undertaken by it, under 
this Policy or any earlier periods; or 

(e) if the Export House fails to furnish in time 
the prescribed statements/returns or any 
other information required by Chief Con¬ 
troller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi 
or the sponsoring authority concerned. 

(3) A reasonable opportunity of being heard in the 
matter will be given to the Export House before action 
as above is taken. 

272. An applicant who is not satisfied with the 
decision taken on his application for the grant or 
renewal of Export House Certificate or for cancella- 
tlon/amendment/suspension of Export House Certifi¬ 
cate can file an appeal to the Expert House Commit¬ 
tee in the office of the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports within 45 days of the date of the said 
decision. The decision of the Committee shall be 
final. 


PART B 

TRADING HOUSES 

Objective 

273. A new scheme of recognition of Trading 
Houses was introduced in 1981-82. The objective 
of the scheme is to' develop new products and new 
markets for export, particularly from the small-scale 
and cottage industry sectors. Export Rouses which 
have demonstrated export capabilities as laid down, 
and have facilities for testing and quality control 
will be eligible for recognition as Trading Houses. 

Eligibility 

274. An Export House having a valid Export Home 
Certificate expiring on 30th June of the licensing year 
or on the last day of the preceding financial year will 
be eligible to apply for recognition as Trading House, 
provided it fulfills the following conditions :— 

(■) The applicant h registered with the F.I.E.O. 

(b) It ha* been In (he expoit field during tt 
(east three previous yens, 



m 1] 


wra xnm. srmmmT 


85 


(c) It has an annual average expott m the 
previous three financial years, of atleast 
Rs. 15 crores in value (FOB) of select pro¬ 
ducts (vide Appendix 16); these exports 
should be “direct” exports as deliued tn 
Part A of this Chapter, and spread over 
atleast three Product Groups. These ex¬ 
ports should include exports of the products 
manufactured by small scale units to the 
extent of at least 10% by way of direct 
exports, or 20% by way of indirect exports 
of the products manufactured by anrililary 
units. In determining the eligibility of an 
applicant, exports of new products and/or 
to new markets, as defined aud laid down, 
made during the preceding year will be 
reckoned at twice the actual fob value of 
such exports. Expoits of fresh fiuits/vege- 
tables, cut flowers and decorative plants shall 
be treated on par with export of select pro¬ 
ducts manufactured hy SSI units. 

(d) Amongst the three Product Groups refeired 
to in (b) above, the f.o.b. value of exports 
in each Group should not be less than 15 
per cent of the export performance level 
achieved. The condition that the qualifying 
exports must be spread over at least three 
Product Groups may be relaxed, on merits, 
in cases where the products exported techni¬ 
cally happen to fall in the sam? Product 
Group, but they are distinctly different from 
each other from the point of view of raw 
materials used in their manufacture, their 
production process and technology and the 
international marketing pattern. For Trad¬ 
ing Houses which export select products of 
f.o.b. value of Rs. 100 crores or more in a 
single product group, the minimum value 
of exports of select products in each pro¬ 
duct group shall be at least 10 per cent cf 
the minimum export performance level pres¬ 
cribed for recognition. 

(e) Invisible earnings of foreign exchange 
referred to in sub-para 248(2) f t) above may 
also be taken into account for determining 
the eligibility for the purpose of recognition, 
to the extent of not more than 10% of 
the total minimum export performance on 
the basis of which recognition as fading 
House can be claimed under tbe policy 

(f) It undertakes to show in annual average 
growth in exports of minimum 20% 
become eligible for renewal ol its status. 


(g) It has adequate financial and technical re¬ 
sources, especially in regard to quality con¬ 
trol. 

(h) There will have to be exports in each one 
of the three years covering the prescribed 
base period; the exports in each one of the 
three years will have to be at least 10 per 
cent of the exports in the preceding year. 
Subject to this, exports of only 
those products will qualify for recognition 
as have been made regularly by the appli¬ 
cant at least during any of the two years 
of the prescribed three year base •period. 

(i) “Deemed” exports refened to in para 190 
will count on par with other exports. 

(j) Exports faffing under para 224 will not 
qualify for eligibility puTpose. 

(k) Exports made as associates of State Trading 
Corporation or other similar public sector 
enterprise, may also be counted if such 
exports are otherwise acceptable, and satisfy 
the conditions stipulated in sub-para 248(2) 
(d)(iv) of this Chapter. 

Applications for recognition us Trading House* 

275(1). Applications for the grant of recognition 
certificate should be made by 31st May of the licen¬ 
sing year, to the Chief Controller of Import* and 
Exports, New Delhi (E1VUI Section), in the prescri¬ 
bed form (given in Appendix XXI-A of the Hand 
Book) and manner. Along with the application, the 
applicant should also send (i) the statement of exports 
in the prescribed form certified by Chartered 
Accountant or Cost Accountant or Company Secretary 
who is not a proprietor, partner, Director or an 
employee of the applicant or its associates, (ii) a note 
(4 copies), indicating the financial, managerial and 
technical resources of the applicant, especially in 
regarl to quality control and information with regard 
to tbe various aspects mentioned in para 249 o! thw 
Chapter; the note should also give information In 
regard to the number of supporting manufacturers ol 
the applicant in the large and small scale sector, and 
(iff) the relevant certificate from the public *ector 
enterprise in respect of exports made through them 

(2) Applications for iccognitioi; ol Trading Houses 
and its renewal will be considered by • Committee 
headed by Chief Controller of Import* t *■’ ficr/on* 
The Committee will al*o monitor the Hug u# rhe 
scheme. 



84 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1J 


Applications (or renewal of Trading House Certificates 

276(1). An applicant holding a Trading House 
Certificate which had expired during the preceding 
financial year may apply in the form given in Appen¬ 
dix XXI-B of the Hand Book for renewal of the 
certificate to the CCI&E (EP-HI Section), New Delhi 
by 31st May of the year in which renewal is sought 
subject to the fulfilment of the tollowing : 

(a) The applicant satisfies the conditions stipu¬ 
lated in the preceding paras regarding grant 
of recognition as a trading house. 

(b) The applicant shows a minimum annual 
average export growth rate of 20% in the 
base period as against the preceding three 
financial years of the pre-base period. This 
annual average growth rate will be calculated 
on the net foreign exchange realisation in 
the prescribed base period as compared to 
the immediately preceding three years of 
the pre-base period and for this purpose the 
net foreign exchange realisation would be 
the total f.o.b, value of admissible exports 
minus the c.i.f. value of all categories of 
Imprest, Advance, Special Imprest and REP 
licences and Import-Export Pass Books, if 
any, issued during the relevant years or their 
eligibilities for these in these years. 

(c) The applicant furnishes a detailed account of 
its performance as a trading house, the type 
of assistance it has rendered to supporting 
manufacturers, full justification for import 
and utilisation of items particularly those 
appearing in Appendices 3 and 5-Part A 
of this Policy permitted to trading houses 
against Additional licence* provided in this 

- Policy. 

(2) The applications which do not fulfil the pres¬ 
cribed requirements, are liable to be rejected. How¬ 
ever, in respect of an applicant which has been a 
Trading House continuously for preceding three fianan- 
cial years, the Trading House Committee may consi¬ 
der the request for renewal in the following types of 
cases subject to conditions prescribed in sub-para (3) 
below ;— 

(a) The shortfall in minimum percentage of 
exports from SSI/Cottage Sectors is not 
more than 25% of the prescribed percentage 
i.e. not less than 7.5% for direct exports 
and not less than 15% for indirect exports. 

(b) The shortfall in the pt'Morilx'd growth rate 
is not more than 25% i.e, the growth rate 
achieved is not less than 15%. 


(c) The shortfall in the minimum export per¬ 
formance level for each product group ii 
not more than 25% of die prescribed ex¬ 
port performance level achieved. 

(3) The renewal of a Trading House Certificate in 
the types of cases referred to in sub-para (2) above 
shall be subject to the following conditions :— 

(a) Renewal will be valid only till the end of the 
financial year in which it is granted. 

(b) The shortfall is only in icspect of two of 
the three categories referred to in sub-para 
(2) above. 

(c) The shortfalls will be made good over and 
above the minimum level of performance 
prescribed during the period for which re¬ 
newal is granted. 

(d) If the shortfall is only in one of the types 

of cases referred to in para (2) above, a 
minimum cut of l/3rd shall be imposed on 
(i) the value of the Additional licence/'s 
due, (ii) value of spares permissible for 
import vide para 280(9) read with 

para 265(6) of this Policy and (iii) value 
of items In Appendices 3 and 5-Part A vide 
para 280(6) and (7) of this Policy. 

(e) If the shortfalls referred to in sub-para (2) 

above are in two categories, a minimum cut 
of 2/3rd shall be imposed on (i) the value 
of additional licence/s due, (ii) value of 
spares permissible for import vide 
para 280(9) read with para 265(6) of 
this Policy and (iii) value of items in 
Appendices 3 and 5-Part A vide pan 
280(6) and (7) of this Policy. 

Period of validity 

277. Except in cases covered by para 276(2) above 
the Recogniton Certificate issued to a Trading House 
may generally be valid for a period of 3 years. (Export 
Houses getting recognition as Trading Houses will 
surrender their export houie certificates). 

Facilities available to Trading Houses 

278. Trading House* will have the following 
facilities under this policy :— 

(i) Import replenishment (REP) licences ad¬ 
missible to them as Registered Exporters ; 

(ii) Import replenishment (REP) licences trans¬ 
ferred to them by others; 



[*TH [—l] 


urra su <r*4d , arsnirnvr 


85 


(Hi) Import of itema placed on Open General 
Licence in the manner set down hereunder; 

(iv) Additional licences as provided hereunder; 

(v) Imprest licence to the extent of 100 per cent 
of the value of REP licences earned against 
their own exports made during the previous 
year; 

(vi) Trading Houses may be allowed as per 
para 51 of this Policy to import Capital 
Goods against REP licences/Additional 
licences to enable them to set up common 
servicing centres for the benefit of their sup¬ 
porting manufacturers and other exporting 
units. Applications for such import will be 
considered by the regional licensing 
authorities in consultation with the technical 
authority concerned. 

(vii) Trading Houses may also be allowed to 
import non-OGL Capital Goods (other than 
those in Appendix 1 Part A) upto Rs. 20 
lakhs (c.i.f.) during the licensing year as 
per para 51 of this Policy. 

(viii) Import of technical designs, drawings and 
other documentations for a value not exceed¬ 
ing Rs. 25 lakhs c.i.f. for supporting 
manufacturers referred to in para 204(31 (ii) 
against REP/additional licences issued in 
favour of the Trading House. 

(ix) Import of one electronic Telephone 
Exchange for use in its own office(s) as 
hid down in sub-para (9) of para 145 of 
this policy against REP/additional licences 
issued in its own pome. 

Import of items placed on OGL 

279(1). Trading Houses will be allowed to import 
OGL items against REP licences issued in their own 
name or transferred to them by others. This facility 
will be^available to them for the import of : — 

(a) Capital Goods listed in Appendix I Part 
B. 

(b) Raw materials, components and consuma¬ 
bles, which have been placed on Open Ge¬ 
neral Licence for Actual Users (Industrial), 
in Part II of List No. 8 in Appendix 6 of 
this Book, as per conditions laid down, 

(c) Spares which have bee* placed on OGL 
for Actual Users (Industrial) as per condi¬ 
tions laid dowa 


(2) -RbP licences against which Trading Houses 
wish to take advantage of the facility provided in'sub¬ 
para (1) above shall be non-transferable, 

(3) Trading Houses who wish to take advantage 
of this facility of import of OGL items should get the 
licences concerned endorsed by the licensing authority 
as under :— 

“This licence will also be valid for import of 
OGL items under para 279 of Import-Ex¬ 
port Policy, 1985—88 (Vol. I), subject to 
the conditions laid down, and shall be non- 
transferable ” 

(4) Goods imported by Trading Houses under 
this facility will be disposed of by them in the same 
manner as laid down for Export Houses in Part A of 
this Chapter. Further, the procedure for import and 
disposal of components laid down for Export Houses 
will equally apply to the import and disposal of com¬ 
ponents by Trading Houses under OGL or other¬ 
wise. 

(5) Import of OGL items by Trading Houses 
under these provisions shall be subject to the 
condition, inter alia, that the shipment of goods 
shall take place within the validity of OGL i.e. 31st 
March of the licensing year or within the validity 
period of the import licence itself (without any grace 
period) whichever date is earlier. This restriction will 
also apply to licences issued before 1st April of the 
licensing year in respect of items which continue to be 
on OGL in 1985—88 policy. The condition for regis¬ 
tration of contracts as applicable to the import of 
items under OGL in Appendix 6 will also apply for 
import of such OGL items by Trading Houses under 
these provisions. 

(6) Goods obtained by Actual Users (Industrial) 
from Trading Houses under this provision shall be 
subject to ‘Actual User’ condition. 

Additional licences 

280(1). Applications for Additional licence! in the 
prescribed form may be made upto 30th June,- 
of the licensing year by Trading Houses holding Recog¬ 
nition Certificates valid beyond 31st March of the pre¬ 
ceding year. Fresh applicants or those wtose certifi¬ 
cates expired on 31st March of the preceding year may 
apply for Additional licence within two months after 
securing the Trading House Certificate concerned. 
The proviaioni in par* 264 of Part ‘A’ above relating 
to aubmiision of application! for additionai/REP 
licence will also apply to Trading Houaea. 



86 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1 


1 1 ) lbc teiuc of Additional licences for the Dcen- 
»lng year to be granted under this policy will be 
calculated at 10 per cent of the net foreign exchange 
earned on total exports of select products (vide 
Appendix 16) plus 10 per cent of the f.o.b. value of 
exports of select products manufactured by small scale 
and cottage industries, made in the preceding financial 
year. Such Additional licences shall be non- 
transferable. While calculating the value of Additional 
licence, net foreign exchange earned would be arrived 
at by deducting the value of licenses issued or eligibility 
for grant of Advance/Special Imprcst/Imprest/REP 
licences and Import-Export Pass Books for the pre¬ 
ceding financial year from the gross value of export 
of select products. 

(3) For the purpose of calculating the entitlement 
for Additional licence, the value of exports of Select 
Products carrying import replenishment rate of more 
than 50 per cent in Appendix 17 of the import policy 
of the preceding year shall not be taken into account. 
Also, exports made in discharge of the export obliga¬ 
tion against Advance/Special Imprest/Imprest licences 
and Import-Export Pass Books carrying more than 50 
per cent of import content, will not be taken into 
account. The Trading Houses should not, therefore, 
include the value of such exports while applying for 
Additional licences. 

(4) In respect of the export products mentioned in 
sub-para 265(3) in Part A’ of this Chapter, if the 
Trading House is unable to give the names of manu¬ 
facturers concerned, his declaration to the effect that 
the goods exported were manufactured by SSr/cottage 
sector units, may be accepted for the purpose of de¬ 
termining the entitlement for Additional licence, 

(5) Additional licences so granted will be valid for 
import of items appearing in Part II, List No. 8 of 
Appendix 6 of this Book. 

(6) Additional licences issued to Trading Houses 
will also be valid for import of items appearing in 
Appendices 3 and 5 Part A upto a maximum'of 5 per 
cent of the value of the licence subject to a single 
item not exceeding Rs, 5 lakhs in value. Single item 
for this purpose will have the same meaning as de¬ 
fined in para 7 of this policy, 

(7) (i) The limit of 5 per cent for import of items 
in Appendices 3 and 5 Part A referred to in sub-para 
(6) above will be 7.5 per cent in.the case of Trading 
Houses which show in the licensing year a mini¬ 
mum growth of 30 per cent (i.e, 50 per cent more 
than the normal growth rate of 20 per cent) in their 
exporti of select products over the preceding finan¬ 


cial jcai Within this 7.5 per cent, import of item* 
appearing in Appendix 3 shall not exceed 5 per cent 
of the licence value. The upper value limit for single 
item will remain unchanged at Rs. 5 lakhs. 

(ii) Trading Houses which have effected exports in 
atleast 5 product groups during the preceding finan¬ 
cial year and exports in each product groups are 
not less than 15 per cent of th e total f.o b. value of 
their exports, will be allowed to import items ap¬ 
pearing in Appendices 3 and 5 Part A, upto 7.5 per 
cent of the value of the Additional licences, instead 
of only upto 5 per cent. 

(8) Items imported under sub-paras (6) and (7) 
above shall be tho.c which are related to the pro¬ 
ducts exported by the Trading House. At the end 
ol each year, the Trading House shall furnish an 
account of the items imported and the products ex¬ 
ported, with their values, to the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports, New Delhi, for ex-post-jac(o 
scrutiny from the point of view of relationship bet¬ 
ween the imports and exports. 

(9) Additional licences issued to Trading House! 
will also b e valid for import of spares of the items 
mentioned in sub-para 265(6) in Part ‘A’ of thii 
Chapter, subject to the same restrictions as laid down 
therein, except that the over-all value limit for im¬ 
port per Trading House will be Rs. 5 lakhs, instead 
of Rs. 2 lakhs for export houses. 

(10) Additional licences issued to Trading Houses 
will also lx; valid for import of Capital Goods listed 
in Appendix I Part B which have been placed on 
Open General Licence for Actual Users (Industrial). 
This facility will be subject to the same conditions 
as laid down in para 263 of Part ‘A’ of this Chapter, 
except that the endorsement referred to in sub-para 
2t>3(3) will not be required in the case of Additional 
licences, which are already non-transferable. 

(11) Goods imported by the Trading Houses 
against Additional licences will be dispose^ of by 
them in the same manner and subject to the same 
conditions as laid down in para 263 in Part ‘A’ of 
this Chapter 

Long and enduring Relationship between Trading 
Houses and Associate Manufacturers 

281. A Trading House which enters into long term 
arrangements with its supporting manufacturers for a 
period of not less than 5 years to export select pro¬ 
ducts manufactured by such supporting manufacturers 
will be allowed higher value of Additional Llcencea 



[wr l —*37 i] 


viTra su rrsva sTwarw 


87 


on exports of products of iuch supporting tuanuiuc- 
turers. (Such supporting manufacturers with whom 
a Trading House has established long term arrange¬ 
ments of 5 years or more will under this Scheme 
henceforth be referred to as “Associate Manufac¬ 
turers”). The value of Additional licences to be 
granted for the licensing year under the scheme to 
such Trading Houses will be calculated at 121% of 
the net foreign exchange earned on exports made 
during the preceding year of select products manu¬ 
factured by Associate manufacturers plus 12i per 
cent of the f.o.b. value of exports of select products 
manufactured by those associate manufacturers who 
are in the Small Scale/Cottage industry sector. Sepa¬ 
rate Additional licences shall be issued under this 
provision and no other exports by the Trading House 
should be taken into account while calculating the 
value of such Additional licences. A separate re¬ 
cord of such Additional licences should be mainlin¬ 
ed by the licensing authorities. Such Additions! 
licences shall be non-transferable and shall be grant¬ 
ed subject to the following conditions 

(a) The Associate manufacturer is himself not 
in the export field and has not exported 
any of his products either himself or 
through any other Registered exporter dur¬ 
ing the last two financial years. 

(b) The Trading House undertakes to export 
50 per cent or more of the production of 
Select products of the Associate manufac¬ 
turer for a period of five years commencing 
from 1st April of the licensing year. 

(c) The list of such Associate manufacturers 
shJl not exceed 25 in number (in a year) 
and will not be allowed to be changed dur¬ 
ing the period of five years. 

(d) Such Additional licences will be valid for 
import of items as will be admissible to 
Trading Houses against their Additional 
licences under the policy. It may, however, 
be clarified that import of items appearing 
in Appendices 3 and 5 Part A would be 
allowed to an extent of only 5 per cent of 
the value of such Additional licences. The 
items imported will be those which go into 
the production of select products manufac¬ 
tured by the Associate manufacturers and 
which are to be exported through the Trad¬ 
ing House. The material! imported against 
such Additional licences will be disposed ^ 
to the Associate manufacturers only. 


1 fie Hems supplied to such Associate manu¬ 
facturers will be non-transferable and will 
be subject to Actual User condition. 

(f) The Trading House shall furnish quarterly 
returns to CCI&E, Udyog Bhavan, New 
Delhi giving details of items imported and 
supplied to its Associate manufacturers 
giving their names and addresses. Copies 
of such statements will also be sent by the 
Trading House to the Sponsoring authori¬ 
ties of the Associate manufacturers. The 
Sponsoring authorities will be expected to 
inspect the premises of the Associate manu¬ 
facturers to whom imported goods have 
been disposed of by the Trading House and 
check the utilisation of the imported items. 
The result of such inspection will be re¬ 
ported by the Sponsoring authorities to 
the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
New Delhi, 

(g) The Trading House shall furnish a legal 
undertaking to fulfil tip conditions men¬ 
tioned above. 

(h) Violation of the conditions will attract ac¬ 
tion under Imports and Exports (Control) 
Act and imports (Control) order. 

IRMAC facilities to Trading Houses 

282(1). Trading Houses may be allowed to provide 
IRMAC facilities for supply of goods (non-canalised 
items only) against Actual User licences, REP licences 
anfi Additional licences. 

(2) Trading Houses may be ghen certain in¬ 
frastructural facilities and other facilities to enable 
them to expand their role in foreign trade. 

(3) Trading Houses may be allowed to certify the 
quality of their own products for export. This facility 
may be given to those Trading Houses which have 
testing arrangements to the satisfaction of the Export 
Inspection Council. 

Foreign Exchange for promotional activities 

283(1). The Reserve Bank of India may allow a 
Trading House to utilise foreign exchange upto 2.5 
per cent of the f.o.b. value of its total exports in 
the preceding year for the following purposes :— 

(a) Foreign exchange expenditure on promotion¬ 
al activities permitted under the Code of 
Grants-in-Aid for export efforts ; 



88 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sbc.,1] 


(b) Import ot testing instruments and equip¬ 
ments for packing and tagging and their 
spares, duly cleared from indigenous angle, 
and required for setting up Common Service 
Centres. 

(c) Setting up warehouses and offices abroad 
without obtaining prior approval of the 
Reserve Bank of India (post-facto intima¬ 
tion shall be sent to RBI immediately after 
setting up the warehouses/offices abroad). 

(2) The permit issued by the Reserve Bank of India 
in regard to above will be valid for a period of one 
year from the date of its issue. 

(3) The above limit of 2.5 per cent will be subject 
to a maximum of Rs. 60 lakhs. Any amount in excess 
thereof shall be adjusted against the REP entitlement 
of the Trading House on it s own exports. 

(4) The procedure to be followed in this regard is 
given in Appendix 18, 

Reporting and Control 

284(1). Every Trading House shall maintain true 
and proper accounts of its exports, imports and dis¬ 
posal of imported items. These shall be open for 
inspection by any authority nominated by the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. They 
shall furnish quarterly statements, in the form pros¬ 
cribed in Appendix XXI-D of the Hand Book of Im¬ 
port-Export Procedures, for 1985—88, pertaining to 
receipt and disposal of imported items against (i) 
their own licence ; (ii) licences transferred by others; 
and (in) Additional licences. The statement should 
be sent to Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi (Export House Cell in Statistical Division) 
within one month of the close of the period to which 
it pertains, with copy thereof to the regional licensing 
authority concerned/sponsoring authority concerned 
of each of the Actual User (Industrial) to whom 
the imported goods have been disposed of. Trading 
Houses should also send to the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports (EP ni Section), New Delhi 
copies of their detailed schemes and action programmes 
for export and annual returns of exports effected, 
commodity-wise and country-wise, sent by them to the 
Federation of Indian Export Organisations, as provid¬ 
ed in Chapter XIV of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985—88. 

(2) Separate statements shall also be tent to 
CCI&E, New Delhi 

(l) Annual statement regarding imports of 
items appearing in Appendices 3 and 5 


Fait A against Additional licences, giving 
description and value, item-wise, and the 
products exported, their names and FOB 
value product-wise, for ex-post-jacto scru¬ 
tiny from the point of view of relationship 
between imports and exports. 

(ii) Quarterly statement of imports and dis¬ 
posal of goods imported under para 204 
of this Book, as laid down. 

(iii) Quarterly statement of imports and dis¬ 
posal of components, as laid down. 

285. Any change in the constitution, name or 
ownership of a Trading House- shall be forthwith re¬ 
ported to the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, and the licensing authority concerned. In 
such an event, the Trading House shall cease to enjoy 
the facilities provided under this policy, until and un¬ 
less the connected Trading House status has been 
got approved by the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi in favour of the new or reconsti¬ 
tuted body. 

Refusal to grant/renew Trading House Certificate 
and canccllation/suspcuslon of Trading House 
Certificate 

286(1). If the applicant has on any occasion dur¬ 
ing the previous three years, tampered with the im- 
port/export licence; or has been a party to any cor¬ 
rupt or fraudulent practice in its commercial dealings 
or in obtaining any licence; or if any agent or em¬ 
ployee of the applicant lias been a party to any cor¬ 
rupt or fraudulent practice in obtaining the licence, 
under the Imports and Exports (Control) Act or any 
condition of licence granted under Import|Export 
Control Order or commits a breach of Import and 
Export Trade Regulations, the Chief Controller of 
Imports and Exports may refuse to grant/renew Tra¬ 
ding House Certificate for a period to be specified, 
after giving a Show Cause Notice. 

(2) A Trading House Certificate may be can¬ 
celled, amended or otherwise rendered ineffective : — 

(a) if the Chief Controller of Imports and Ex¬ 
ports is satisfied that it had been obtained 
by misrepresentation or issued by oversight; 
or 

(b) if the Trading Retie commits a breach of 
the Import-Export Policy; or 

(c) if the Trading Hou*c u found, on a com¬ 
plaint received from a foreign buyer, to have 




[*mrl—wr iJ 


Xfl'm ifTT TTJTT^ ' smTOTm 


89 


co mm itted a breach of contract or indulged 
in unfair trade practices; or 

(d) if the Trading House fails to discharge an 
export obligation undertaken by it, under 
this Policy or any earlier periods; or 

(e) if the Trading House fails to furnish in time 
the prescribed statementsjreturcs or any 
other information required by the Chief 
Controller of Imports add Exports, New 
Delhi or the sponsoring authority concern- 
e>d, 

(3) A rMMMbla •pp»rtu«ity of being heard in 
the matter will be given to the Trading House before 
action as above is taken. 

287. An applicant who is not satisfied with the 
decision taken on his application for the grant or 
renewal of Trading House Certificate, or for cancella¬ 
tion /amendment/suspension of the Trading House 
Certificate can file an appeal for review to the Minis¬ 
try of Commerce, Appeal Section, within 45 days of 
the date of the said decision. 


CHAPTER XXI) 

ENTREPRENEUR MERCHANT EXPORTERS 
(EME«) 

*88. In order to create linkage between domestic 
production and export marketing and also to support 
entrepreneurial initiative in exports from the SSI/ 
Cottage sectors, a new scheme foT granting certain 
special facilities was introduced in the Import & 
Export Policy for 1984-85. This scheme is being 
continued. Entrepreneur Merchant Exporters will be 
eligible for Additional Licences on the basis of 5% 
of the f.o.b. value of their exports of select products 
manufactured by SSI/Cottagc Sector Units subject to 
the following conditions :—- 

(i) The Entrepreneur Merchant Exporter will 
not be an Actual User (Industrial). 

(ii) The minimum f.o.b. val Uc of eligible exports 
of select products manufactured by SSI/ 
Cottage Sector Units should not be less than 
Rs. 20 lakhs irj the year before the preced¬ 
ing year and a minimum increase of 20% is 
achieved in f.o.b. value of such exports in' 

58 GI/85—7. 


the preceding year over the exports in the 
year before the preceding year. For example, 
for additional licensing in 1986-87 (licensing 
year), the FOB value of exports of eligible 
select products effected in 1985-86 (preced¬ 
ing year) should be atleast 20% more than 
the FOB value of exports effected in 1984- 
85 (year before the preceding year). 

(iii) Only such exports of select products manu¬ 
factured by SSI/Cottage Sector Units will 
qualify for issue of “Additional licence for 
EMEs” which carry an import replenish¬ 
ment rate of 20% or less during the pre¬ 
ceding two financial years. 

(iv) All such Additional licences shall be non- 
transferable. 

(v) For the purpose of calculating the entitle¬ 
ment for “Additional licence for E.M.E.” the 
value of exports of high value products e.g. 
freight containers; air-conditioning and refri¬ 
geration equipment; electrical machinery, 
equipment and apparatus; machine tools; 
internal combustion engines; pumps and com¬ 
pressors; industrial machinery and compo¬ 
nents thereof; boilers; motor vehicles and 
automobile ancillarics; railway equipment; 
water transport equipment; machine made 
woollen carpets/si]k carpets shall not be 
taken into account. 

(vi) The Entrepreneur Merchant Exporter shall 
be required to give a declaration to the effect 
that the products exported were actually 
manufactured by SSI/Cottago Sector units, 
whose names, addresses with Registration 
numbers, wherever applicable, will also be 
furnished. Another declaration will also be 
required to be given to the effect that the 
E.M.E. is exclusively exporting products 
manufactured by SSI/Cottnge Sector Units. . 

(vii) Additional licence so granted will be valid 
for import of items appearing in Part II of 
List 8 of Appendix 6 of this policy'subject 
to the condition that import of a single 
item shall not exceed Rs, 4 lakhs in value. 
For this purpose, a single item shall have 
the same meaning as given in para 7 of 
this policy. 

(viii) Additional licence will also be valid for 
import of Capital Goods listed in Appen¬ 
dix 1 Part-B and raw materials, compo- 



90 


THE G&ZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


nents, consumables and spares which have 
been placed under OGL tor Actual User 
(Industrial) in this policy. 

(ix) The items imported against-the additional 
licence will be only those which go into 
the production of select products exported 
by the E.M.E. 

(x) The goods imported against the Additional 
licence will be disposed of by the licensee 
to manufacturers whose goods have been 
exported by him and will be subject to 
Actual User condition. 

(xi) The EMEs shall be required to maintain 
proper account of their exports, imports and 
disposal of imported goods to their support¬ 
ing manufacturers. These shall be open for 
inspection by (1) sponsoring authorities con¬ 
cerned and (2) licensing authorities. They 
shall furnish quarterly statements in the 
form prescribed for ex^ort/trading houses in 
.Appendix XXI of the Hand Book (within , 
on c month of the close of each quarter) 
pertaining to receipt and disposal of imoprt- 
ed items against such Additional, licences to 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 

the concerned sponsoring authorities of the 
supporting manufacturers to whom the im¬ 
ported goods hatve been disposed of. 

(xii) The Entrepreneur Merchant Exporters 
should register themselves as “E.M.Es” with 
the Registering Authorities in accordance 
with the procedures laid down in this regard 
in Chapter XIV of the Hand Book of 
Import-Export Procedures 1985-88. 

289(1). In para 174(ii) of Import and Export 
Policy for 1984-85, the minimum growth rate pres¬ 
cribed for EMEs was 50%. Accordingly, in the 
licensing year 1985-86, Entrepreneur Merchant Ex¬ 
porters who have shown a growth rate of 50% in 
1984-85 as compared to 1983-84 will alone be eligible 
for grant of Additional licences provided in this Policy. 
However, from the year 1986-.87 onwards, additional 
licences for EMEs under the provisions given above 
will be granted on the basis of a growth rate of 20% 
as prescribed in para 288(ii) above. 

(2) Applications for Additional licences will be 
preferred to the licensing authorities concerned in the 
form prescribed for export/trading houses in Appen¬ 
dix XXI of the Hand Book. 




91—92 










[*wl—41 l] 


W5TTWIS. STOTtlTT’T 


93 


APPBNDIX 1 
CAPITAL GOODS 
PART—A 


LIST OF RESTRICTED ITEMS OF CAPITAL GOODS 


rrc-Rtv. 2 cccn 

Code Code 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN Code 
Code 


1. Cinema machinery, the following i— 

(!) Slide projectors other than 
remote controlled or auto- 


matlo slide 

881.3101 

90.09 

(2) Arc lamps operating at be¬ 
low 120 amps. 

778.2401 

8J.20D 

(3) Dimmerstat for auditorium 
lights. 

874.8919 

90.28 

(4) Stage lighting equipment. 

778.8600 

85.22 

(5) Emergency lighting system. 

778.8600 

85.22 

(6) Manual and electric curtain 
controls. 

772.1029 

85.19 

(7) Automatic or semi-automa¬ 
tic film developing and pro¬ 
cessing machines sxoopt those 
with micro processor based 
system (for black and white 
Aims), 

881.3900 

90.10 

(8) Incandescent studio lights 
fittings below 5,000 Watts. 

772.1029 

85.19 

(9) 16 mm ,35 mm and 35 mm/ 
70 ram complete projection 
and sound re-productlon 
equipment. 

881.22 

a 

90.08 

Jute mill machinery, the followingt- 

— 


(1) Softener. 

724.4202 

84.36 

(2) Emulsion plant (conventio¬ 
nal type). 

724.4202 

84.36 

(3) Flat bod ovor pick, conven¬ 
tional looms. 

724.5111 

84,37 

(4) Reeling machine. 

724.4321 

84.36 

(5) Roll/oon# winder—Traverse 
bar type. 

724.4321 

84.36 

(6) COP winding (manual doff¬ 
ing conventional type). 

724.4321 

84.36 


(15) Finisher Card (conventional 

type). 

(IS) Roll Former. 

(17) S.VV. First Drawing Frame. 

(18) S.W. Finisher Drawing Framo. 

S ) S.G. First Drawing Frame. 

) S,G. Second Drawing Frame. 
(2l) T.C. Finisher Drawing 
Frame. 

(22) 4F Pitch S.D. Spinning 
Frame. 

(23) 4i' Pitch A.D. Spinning 
Frame. 

(24) Si' Pitch S.D. Spinning 
Frame. 


5-724 4903 


5-724.5119 


1724.43 21 


84.38 


84.37 


84. 3S 


3. Printing machinery i— 


(1) Paper cutting machines ox- 
eluding machines with de¬ 
vices suoh as automatic pro¬ 
gramme cutting and three 
knife trimmers. 

725.2001 

84.33 

(2) Automatic Letter Press cy¬ 
linder printing machine* up- 
to 560 x 790 mm. 

726.7199 

84.35 

(3) Paper varnishing and gum¬ 
ming machine other than 
automatic type. 

726.72 09 

84.35 

(4) All pro** metal furnitures 
including locking up (mecha¬ 
nical) Quions. 

726.9902 

84.35 

(J) Letter Press printing presses 
(Platen type) treadle and 
power operated, other than 
automatic. 

726.4209 

94.35 

(6) Perforating and punching 
presses (hand-fed and power 
driven). 

— 

84.33 

» 

(7) Hand-fed Letter Prew cylin¬ 
der printing machine*. 

726.4 

84.33 A 
A 94.15B 


(T) Beaming tnaohla*. 1 

(8) Pre-beaming machine. I 

(9) Damping machino. I 

(10) Rolling up machine. >-724.4901 84 38 

(11) Inspection machine. I 

(12) Dial shaker. | 

(13) Teaser Card. ] 

(14) Breaker card (coavenrionsl | 

type). J 


(8) Table Rooter for flat surfaces. 720,7209 84.35D 

(9) Wire stitching machines sin¬ 
gle-headed. 726.8100 84.32A 

(10) Paper folding machine other 

than automatic 725.2002 14.32 





94 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I- Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX 1 PART-A— Coma. 



ITC~Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN Code 

(11) Ammonia printing machine. 

751.8200 

90.10A 

(12) Paper cutting knives of all 
sizes if imported separately. 

695.4202 

82.06 

(13) A11 types of hand numbering 
machines. 

726.7209 

84.35D 

f 14) Graining machines, for gra- 
’ ining of offset plates (all 
siies). 

726.3105 

84". 34 A 

(15) Vacuum printing frames for 
offset [Hate making exclud¬ 
ing those with built-in ultra- 
voilct light sources and expo¬ 
sure computers 

726.3105 

84.34A 

9 

(16) Plate whirlers for offset 
plates (aU sizes). ■ 

726.3105 

84.34A 

(17) Retouoher tables 

726.3105 

84.34A 

(18) Mounting tablos. 

726.3105 

84.34A 

(19) Paper jogging machines. 

726.7209 

84.35D 

(20) Roller washing devices. 

726.7209 

84.35D 

(21) Paper perforating machines. 

726.2002 

84.33 

(22) Lead and Rule cutters. 

726.7209- 

84.35D 

(23) Corrugating machinery, sin¬ 
gle and double face combi¬ 
ned conveyor. 

725.1200 

84.31 

(24) Cutting, scouring and slot¬ 
ting machines. 

725.2001/2002 84,33 

(2f) Registering tables except 
pre-registering systems 

726.7209 

84.35 

. Textiles machinery, other than 
silk. Jute and hempi/- 



(1) Doubler windor upto 152.40 
mm (6*) traverse for wind¬ 
ing upto four ends. 

f24.4329 

84.36 

(2) Ring doublers fot cotton yarn 
upto 114.30 mm (41 r ) ring 
diameter and/or 88.90 mm 
(3jr*V gauge and/or 241.30 
mm (91*) lift. 

724.4329 

84.36 

(3) Reeling machine but exclu¬ 
ding for stretched/ crimped 
synthetic yarns. 

724 4329 

1 

84.36 

(4) Uptwisters all types except 
two-for-one twister, 

724.4329 

84.36 

(5) (a) Rewinders for winding 
on flanged bobbings'. 

724.4329 

84.36 

(fi) Crimping machines. 

724.5304 

84.37 


(c) Texturising machines 
false twist and crimp- 

ng only) 724.5304 84.3T 

( d ) Draw texturising ma¬ 
chines (false twist and 

crimping only) 724.5304 84,37 

(6) Non-automatic warp wind¬ 
ing machine (Cone winding 

machine). 724.J104 84.37 


ITC-Rtv, 2 CCCN Cod* 
Cod* 

(7) Pneumatic cot grinding/cot 
mounting including hand 


operated cot-mounting ma¬ 
chine. 

NA 

NA 

(8) Non-automadc pirn winding 
machine. 

724.5104 

84.37 

(9) Ordinary warping machine. 

724,5103 

84.37 

(10) Sizing machine including 
size cooking/mixing equip¬ 
ment except for sizing zero 
twist filament yarn. 

724.53 

84.37 

(11) Non-Automatic Plain/Terry 
Towel/drop box looms 

except pick-at-will looms. 

724.5129 

84.37 

(12) lxl Shuttle Box automatic 
loom for cotton textile in¬ 
dustry upto 260 ents (102") 
reed space excluding canvas/ 
industrial fabrics/heavy duty 
looms. 

724.5101 

* 

84.37 

(13) All types of hand-operated 
circular knitted machines. 

724.5209. 

84.37 

(14) All types of flat hand-opera¬ 
ted knitting machines (ex¬ 
cept those operated with 
punch card) 

724.5209 

84,37 

(15) Reed cleaning and brushing 
machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(16) Jacquard upto 1200 needles 
capacity but excluding fine 
pitch Jacquard. 

724.6111 

84.38 

(17) Agor machine (excluding 
flash ager) 

724.6119 

84 38 

(18j Batching machine. 

724,7419 

- 84.40 

(19) Bleaching klers. 

NA 

NA 

(20) CalenderidJi machine (all 
types) excluding however 
those for garment/hosiery 
manufacture. 

745.2101 

- 84.16' 

(21) C’oth folding, double folding 
and plaiting machine. 

724.7405 

84,40 

(22) Cloth Inspection machine. 

874.5309 

90.22 

(23) Cloth mercerising machine 
excluding those for knitted 
goods. 

724.7406& 

.7407 

84.40 

(24) Clothing singeing machine 
(all types). 

724.7903 

84.40 

(25) Continuous dyeing Plant. 

724.7403& 

.7404 

84.40 

(26) Continuous bleaching Plant 
(Rope type). 

724,7401 & 
.7402 

84.40 

(27) Crabbing machines. < 

NA 

NA 

(2(3) Curing/pulymcrtsing machine. 

724.7406& 

,7407 

g4 40 

(29) Cylinder drying machine (all 
type*). 

724.7419 

84.4 



STRtT »PT THTTW : smTtnTor 


95 


[*rm I—tw iJ 


APPENDIX 


ITC-Rev, 2 CCCN Code 
Code 

(30) Colour mixing anil boiling 

pan- 724.7903 84.40 

(31) Damping machine. 1 

(32) Dye Jigger (all types). I 

(33) Jet dyeing machine. | 

(34) High, temperature, hlgh/Jow ) 724,7403 & 

pressure piece dyeing machine. V .7404 84.40 

(35) High pressure, higb/low tem¬ 
perature dyeing plant' for 
yarn/top dyeing for woollen/ 
worsted/art silk industries. 


(36) 

Hot flue. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(37) 

Hydro extractor. 

724.7419 

84.40F 

(38) 

Mineral khaki dyeing plant. 

724.7403 & 
.7404 

84,40 

(39) 

Open width breaching plants 
(all types). 

724,7401* ’ 
.7402 

84.40 

(40) 

Open width washing and 
soaping machine (all types). 

724.7419- * 

84.40 

(41) 

Padding/starch/water mangle 
Including pad dyeing machine. 

724.7406* 

.7407 

84.40 

(42) 

(43) 

(44) 

Rope chemlcking and scour- " 
ing maohine. 

Rope squeezing machine. 

Rope washing machine. J 

-724.7419 

84.40 

(45) 

Roller printing machine. 

724.7411 

84.40 

(46) 

Pre-shrinklng machine. 

724.7406* 

.7407 

84.40 

(47) 

Scutchers. 

NA 

NA 

(48) 

Squeezing mops. 

NA 

NA 

(49) 

Stamping machine, excluding 
selvedge stamping/printing. 

724.7411 

84.40 

(50) 

Stentering machine (all types 
excluding vertical stentcr for 
heavy fabrics). 

724.7406* 

.7407 

84,40 

(51) 

* 

Washing machine, square 
beater type. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(52) 

Wet Coition opener 

NA 

NA 

(53) 

Winch dyeing machine. 

* 

724.7403& 

.7404 

84.40 

(54) 

(55) 

Yarn bundling machine. 1 

Yarn singeing machine, J 

-724.7903 

84,40 

(56) 

Yarn dyeing machine for hank/ 
conc/cht'cse/biam. 

724.7403 * 
.7404 

* 84.40 

(57) 

Automatic flat bed/rotary 
screen printing machine. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(58) 

Shearing and cropping mac¬ 
hine for cotton fabrics. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(39) 

Semi-continuous type of de- 
catising machines. 

724 7419 

84 40 


i PAR i - a Concld. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN Code 
Code 

3. Textile Testing Equipment :— 

(1) Black Board/Taper Board, "1 

yarn appearance Tester. j 

(2) Direct Yarn count balance ; 

(Lea). 

(3) Fabric tearing strength tester. -874.5309 90.22 

(4) Lea Tester. 

(5) Twist Tester. 

(6) Wrap Block. 

(7) Wrap Reel. J 

6 . Miscellaneous Items i— 


(1) 

Etohlng machine upto 60 x 50 

NA 

NA 


cms. 



(2) 

Garage compressors upto 250 
cfm. 

743.1001 

84.11 

(3) 

Contact-printing cabinet ha¬ 
ving tungsten. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(4) 

Fish finders. 

894.7109 

97.07 

(5) 

Green loaf threshing plants 
forproceasing tobacco 

728.4309 

84.59B 

(6) 

Surgical operating tables/ 

821.2102 

94.02 

(7) 

Photographic powderless 
machine 13 x 38 cms. 

NA 

NA 

(8) 

TV pattern generators (Mo¬ 
nochrome). 

778.8600 

85.22 

(9) 

Air Pollution and air control 
equipment. 

743.6009 

84.18 

(10) 

Block ice coolers. 

741.4101 

84.13 

(ID 

Dental chair. 

821.2101 

94.02 

(12) 

Drawing and mathemalida) 
instruments. 

874,21 

90.16 

(13) 

Air separation plants except 



liquid nitrogen plants capacity 



below 10 litres per hour. 

1,728.4802 

84.59 

(14) 

Pulliug and lifting machines. 

744.2809 

84.22 

(15) 

Rioe and Dal mill machinery. 

727.11 1 

84.29 

(16) 

(17) 

Stapling machine. 

Photocopying equipment i 

751.8801 

84.34 

Manual/semi-auto matio/au- 
tomatic without reduction 
facility and tlpto a copying 
speed of20copies per minute. 

751.8200 

90.10 



(18) 

Sphygmomanometers. 

872.0202 

90.17 

(19) 

Fully automatic bag making 
machine for LDPE. HDPE 




and Poly-propylene films 
excluding circular looms. 

728.4209 

84.39 

(20) 

Machine tool accessories i— 




(i) Lathe chucks. \ 




(11) Drill chucks. j 

736.8001 

84.48 

(21) 

Sliding Head Automats upto 
10 mm capacity for watch 
industry. 

736.1302 

84,45 


(22) 

Centrifuges (Laboratory/re¬ 
frigerated type upto 16,000 
rpm\ 

743 3(W> 

8418 




96 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX—1 


PART—B 

LIST Of, CAPITAL GOODS ALLOWED UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN Code 



Code 


1. v>) Machine Toolit— 


- 

(t) Camshaft turning lathe. 

736.1319 

84.45 

(2) Crankshaft turning lathe. 

736,1314 

84.43 

(3) Horizontal Boring, Drilling 
and Milling Machine spin¬ 
dle diameter 200 mm. and 
above. 

V36.1511 

84.45 

(4) Tool room Piccit>lon Co¬ 
ordinate Jijf Boring Machine 
with or without numerical 
control/computcriscd num- 
eiical control, other than 
vertical and horizontal 

machining centres 

736.1513 

84.45 

(5) Vertical, multi-spindle chu¬ 
cking Automatic all sizes. 

736.1305 

84.45 

(6) Broaching Machine above 
25 tonnes capacity. 

736.7109 

84.43 

(7) Thread/Worm milling machine 

736.1209 

83.45 

(8) Thread/worm grinding ma¬ 
chine. 

736.1211 

84.45 

(9) Thread whirling machine. 

736.1809 

84.45 

(10) Spline Milling Machine. 

736.1203 

84.43 

(11) Automatic flute milling ma¬ 
chine for shank type cutting 
tools. 

736.1409 

84.45 

(12) Multt-splndlc copying/dup- 
licatlng and profile milling 
machine. 

736 1409 

84,4} 

(13) Longitudinal and lot circular 
uwrkiijg/graduating machine. 

' 736.7904 

84 43 

(14) Automatic Crankshaft milling 
machine. 

136.1409 

84 45 

(15) Automatic Camshaft milling 
machine. 

736.1409 

84 43 

(Iff) Automatic 'Bevel Gear Ge¬ 
nerating Machine. 

736,1209 

84.43 

(it) Gear Tooth Honing Machine. 

736.1219 

34.43 

(18) Geai Lapping Machine. 

736.1219 

84 43 

(19) Geur/Spliue Grinding Ma¬ 
chine. 

736 1211 

84, *3 

(20) Gear Shaving Machine, 

Tio.1213 

84.45 

(21) Gear Quenching Pieii 

736.1219 

84.41 

(22) Slideway grinder 

736.1912 

84.41 

(23) Flo* and side milling cotter 
grinder* for c»t**n show 
i ? moi dU 

7X.t91j 

84 4« 



ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN Code 

(24) Hob grinder*. 

736.1919 

84.45 

(25) Gear shaper cutter grinder/ 
sharpener. 

736.1919 

84.43 

(26) Gear shaving cutter grinder. 

736.1919 

84.45 

(27) Thread Chaser grinder. 

736.1919 

84.45 

(28) Camshaft grinding machine. 

736.1929 

84.45 

(29) Automatic Bevel Gear cutter 
blade sharpening grinding 
madame. 

736.1929 

84.43 

(30) Billlrfclrinding Machine. 

736.1929 

84.45 

(31) Automatic/Semi automatic 
clearance grinding machine 
for shank type cutting tools. 

736.1919 

84.43 

(32) Spring end grinding machine. 

736.1939 

84.45 

(33) Automatic grinding machine 
for grinding straight and 
spiral flutes In shank type 
cutting tools. 

* 

736.1919 

84.45 

(34) Optioal/CNC profile grinding 
machine. 

736.1929 

84.43 

(35) Burnishing machine. 

736.7909 

84.43 

(36) Turret Punch Press. 

716.2301 

84.45 


137) Automatic MultL-statlon 
forming machine for manu¬ 
facture of bolts/nuts, bear- 


lng races and other forgings. 

736.4809 

84.59 

(38) Turning, milling, tapping 
and thread chasing machines 

for watch case manufacture. 

736.7909 

84,43 

(39) Hydraulic cold circular Vtw 
of bar capacity above 530 

mm diameter. 

T36.1603 

84.45 

(40) Rotary dishing and flanging 


4 

machine. 

736.2809 

84.43 

(41) Horizontal upset forging 



machine above 25 mm bar 

capacity. 

736.2109 

84.45 

(42) Wlie act weaving machine. 

736.7909 

84.43 

(43) Electro-chemical grinding/ 

graining machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(44) Lasei cottlng/drillng machine 

737,3219 

83.11 

(43) Electron beam welding machine ?37.J219 

85.11 

(46) Spring Coiling machine 

728.4809 

84.39 

(4T) Automatic Pin* tDu TVie*J 

rolling mnahlnv 

lift 1803 

84.41 

(4g) potMbli pin* Pvvfliin* cnehmv 714 TVt)y 

M 41 



[*TFT I — &W l] 


*rRsr if?r : mrmvn 


97 


APPENDIX i 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN Code 
Coda 


(49) Relieving lathe 

736.1313 

84.45 

(30) Automatic Tap grinder 

736.1919 

84.45 

(51) Spline shaft grinding machine 

736,1929 

84,45 

(52) Automatic cycle groove grinding 
machine 

736.1929 

84.45 

(53) Spline rolling machine 

736.1203 

84.45 

(54) Horizontal gear shaping machine 

736.1201 

84.45 

(55) Gear tolling machine-external/ 
internal 

736.1203 

84.45 

( 56) Copy milling machine for watch 
Industry 

736.1409 

84.45 

(57) Cam milling machine 

736.1409 

84 45 

4 • 

(58) Universal portable type radial 

drilling machine capacity 50 mm din 

and above in steel 736.1504 

84.45 

(59) Crankshaft gapping Super 
finishing machine 

736.1901 ' 

84.45 

(60) Single/multl-splndle honing 
machine with automatic size 
control 

736.1901 

84.433 

(61) Automatlo crankshaft whirling 
machine 

736.1901 

84.45 

(62) Drop forging, double,—acting 
pneumatics hammer above 5 tons 
capacity 

736.7909 

84.45 

(63) Counter blow hammers. 

736.2101 

84.45 

(64) Transverse roller forging machine 

736.2109 

84.45 

(63) Cylinder Head Valve Seat 
Cutting machine. 

NA 

NA 

(66) Pulse woldlng machines. 

736.1939 

85.11 

(67) Pulse hardening generators. 

736.^939 

85.22 

(68) Camshaft lapping/supor 

finishing machlno. 

736.1901 

84.45 

(69) Crankshaft pin/journal grind¬ 
ing machlno with facility for 
crawning and with constant 
surface speed for manufacture 
of crank shafts 

736 1929 

84 45 

470) Crankshaft Mess Centering 
Machlno, 

' 736.1901 

S4 45 

(71) Gear Tooth chamfering 
machine. 

736 1219 

84,4? 

(72) Automatic Gear Deburring 
and Tooth Rounding machine 

736*1219 

34.45 

(73) CMC High Speed Gear 

Hobbing Machine 3-Axls and 
above. 

736.1202 

84.45 

(74) CNC High Goar Shaping 
Machine 3-Axis and aboye. 

736.1202 

84 45 

(73) Twin Spindle CNC Chucker, 

Swing 843 mm and above. 

736 1305 

84 43 

(76) Single Spindle Chucking auto 
with CNC 

736 HOI 

84 43 


PAR T-B— Contd. 

rrc-R£v. 2 cccn Coda 



Coda 


(77) CNC single Spindle Turning 
machine upto 200 mm dra 
chuck 

736.1301 

84.45 

(78) Double-ended CNC Chuck¬ 
ing Automat with Centre 
Dgve. 

736.1305 

84 45 

(79) Vertical Multi-tool CNC 

chucking Automat upto 

a chucking dia 500 mm 

736.1303 

84.45 

(80) Spline Miling Machine. 

736.1205 

84.45 

(81) Polygon Milling Machine/ 
Polygon Profile machine. 

736.1409 

84.45 

(82) fcreep feed surface Grind¬ 
ing machine with table speeds 
lower than 500 mm per 
minute. 

736.1911 

84.43 

(83) Multi-wheel cylindrical 

Grinding machine with wheel 
span 725 mm and above, 

736.1929 

84.43 

(84) Mutti-head Rotary table 
Grinding machine. 

736.1911 

84.43 

(85) Centreless Grinding machine 
with peripheral speed higher 
than 45 metros/per second. 

736.1906 

84.45 

(86) Cylindrical Grinding machine 
With peripheral speed 60- 
metres per second and above. 

736.1929 

84.45 

(87) Vertical Internal Grinding 
machine for bore dla above 

200 mm. 

736,1905 

84.45 

(88) Moving column Drilling 
Centre with 3-Axis CNC and 
Automatic Tool Changer up¬ 
to 12 Tools. 

736.1504 

84.45 

(89) Helical Broaching machlno 
below 10 tonnes capacity 
(other than attachment). 

736.7109 

84.45 

(90) Continuous chain type Hori¬ 
zontal Broaching machine. 

736.7109 

84.45 

(91) Super Finishing machine 
capable of achieving 0.05 RA 
to 0.1 RA surface finish (other 
than attachments). 

736.1901 

84.45 

(92) Welding Robots. 

'737.3219 

NSO 

(93) Friction Welding Machine 
capacity above 12 tonnes. 

737-3219 

85.11 

(94) Horizontal High speed Band 

Saw for alloy steel with cut¬ 
ting speed (20 metres per 
minute or more). 

T36.160J 

84.45 

(95) CNC wire cut EDM with 4 
controlled axis. 

736.1101 

84.43 

(96) Electro-chemical deberrlng 
machine. 

T28 4809 

84.45 



98 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 



ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(97) Spark Erosion machine, 3- 
Axis CNC, with metal re¬ 
moval rate above 1000 mm/ 
minutes. 

736.1101 

84.45 

(98) Thermal Doburring machine. 

728.4809 

84.45 

(99) Pulse Hardening machine. 

741.3103 

84.45 

(100) Automatic hydraulic straigh¬ 
tening press with programm¬ 
able sequence for checking 
and straightening. 

736.2201 

514,45 

(101) Reprogrammable point to 
point for continuous path 
industrial Robots. 

NSC 

*84.45 

(102) Orbital/Spin Revettlug machine, 
machine. 

736.7301 

84.45 

(103) Torque controlled nut run¬ 
ner. 

745.1101 

84.45 

(104) Torque Controlled Impact 
Wrench. 

745.1101 

84.45 


(105) Broach sharpening machine 
for grinding broaches upto 
250 mm diameter and 2000 mm 
length and equipped with 
hydnlulically operated cross- 


slide for 

flat broach grinder 

736.1919 

84.45 

(106) Automatic 
der. 

Drill Poin' 

736.1919 

84.45 

(107) Automatic tap and 19. ‘ -e 
grinding machine. 

736.1919 

84.45 


(108) Tool and cutter gender for 
spherical radi ol end mill 
cutters, with variable grind¬ 
ing speed ol .’000 to 10000 

rpm. 736.1919 84.45 

1109/ Sings' spindle Die-sinking/ 
eop\ iti long machine with ur 
withou' CNC with milling 
spindle diameter 130 mm and 
above and minimum tabic 

load ol 10 tonnes. 736.1409 84.45 

(110) Precision internal grinding 
machino for tool room out of 
roundness 0.000625 mm, 
surface finish 0.05 microns 

Ra value. 736.1905 84.45 

(*111) Precision surface grinding 
machine, for tool room with 
longitudinal and traverse 
accuracy achievable over full 
working range of 0.005 nun, - 
surface finish 0.025 micron 

Ra Value. 736.1911 84.45 

(112) Precision cylindrical grinding 
machine, for tool room, out 
of roundness 0.00025 mm , 
and straightness 0.0025 mm 
over 300 mm. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(113) Precision Universal grinding ’ 
machine, for tool room, out 
of roundness 0.00025mm, 

' and straightness 0.0025 mm 


over 300 mm. 

736.1904 

84.45 

(114) Precision Jig grinders for 
tool room. 

736.1929 

84 45 

(115) Profile projector with Co¬ 
ordinate table 200X160mm 
accuracy 5 micron and better. 

874 2111 

90.16 

(116) Spotwelding strength control 
and checking equipment. 

874.5301 

90;28 

(117) Torque tester cum Calibratur. 

874 5301 

90 28 

(118) Spectrophotometer .with/with¬ 
out microprocessor control 

•874.4004 

90.25 

(119) Chassis dynamometer. 

874.8912 

f 90 16 
\9 o.28 

(120) Auto headlight adjusting unit 

874.8912 

NSC 

(121) Rolling brake tester. 

(122) Cam lobe checking equipment. 

874.8912 

874.5109 

/ 90.16 
\ 90.28 
90.16 

(123) Vertical Spindle surface 

Grinder-Table traverse 3M 
and above. 

736.1911 

84.45 

(124) Ram Type Plano Miller with 
MDI/CNC Control. 

736.1404 

84.45 

(125) Moving Column Bed Type 
Universal Ram Type Miller. 

736.1403 

84.45 

(126) High Speed pattern milling 
machine^Table size 1MX1.4 

M and above with min. 
spindle speed 3400 RPM. 

736.1409 

84.45 

(127) NC/CNC/Opticai Profile 

Oxy-Acetylene Flame cutting 
machine. 

737.3109 

85.11 

(128) Slideway/Spindlc Hardening 
Machine-Flame/Induction, 

i 

741.3103 

737.3109 

85.11 

(129) High Pressure Moulding 

Machine for Foundry. 

737.1104 

84.60 

(130) High Pressure Continuous 
Moulding Machine/Lines/ 

Systems with or without 
flasks. 

737.1104 

84.60 

(131) Permanent Mould. Casting 
Machines and Systems for 
ferrous metals. 

, 737.1106 


(132) Vibration Analyser and In 

Situ Balancing Equipment 
Frequency Range 100 to 
100000 cycles per minutes 
amplitude Range 1 to 3000 
microns peak to peak and 
mm per second. 

874.8309 

f90.22 
i 90.25 
190.28 


73§ 1904 84.45 



[*rm I—at i] 


trra «u nuror: «mraro>r 


99 


APPENDIX l PART-E— Coma. 


ITC-Rev■ 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(ii) Machine tools for the manufacture of ball 
and roller bearing tL* following 

(1) Automatic cycle grinder for grinding 
external groove/track of bearing 


inner races 

736.1929 

84 45 

(2) Automatic super finishing/honing 
machine for innet and outer races/ 
rollers of bearings 

736.1939 

84.45 

(3) Horizontal spindle rotary table 
surface grinder for bearing races/ t 
rollers 

736.1911 

84.45 

(4) Grading machine for balls 
and rollers of bearings 

728.4809 

89.59 

(5j Heading Machine for Steel 
ball and rollers of bearings 

736.7909 

84 45 

(6) Flashing machine for balls 
of bearings. 

736,7809 

84 45 

(7) Grinding and lapping machine 
for balls of bearings. 

736.1939 

84.45 

(8) Centreless grinder for taper 
rollers of bearings. 

736.1906 

84 45 

(9) Cylindrical/spherical grinding 
machine for rollers of bearings. 

736 1904 

84.45 

(10) Double disc face grinder for 
grinding the face of bearing 
outer and inner races and 
roller* 

736 1929 

84.45 

I. Meteorology and Measuring Instruments 


(1) ©eve! Gear Tester 

874.2109 

90. 16 

(2) Gear Proflle/Helu Tester 

874.2109 

90 16 

(3) Bevel Gear Blank Checker 

874.2109 

90 16 

(4) Gear Eccentrlcity/Rolling Tester 

874 2109 

90 16 

(5) Gear Tooth Spacing Tester 

874.2109 

90 16 

(6) Multi-axis co-oridnatc/universal 
measuring machine/instrutpent 

674.2109 

90 16 

(7) Lead screws measuring machine 

874 2109 

90.16 

(8) Surface finish and roughness 
testing equipment 

874,2109 

90 6 

(9) Bearing inspection equipment like i 



(a) Radial clearance checking 
machine 

874.2109 

90,16 

(b) Axial clearance checking 
machine 

874.2109 

90.16 

(10) Hob checking/testing machine 

874.2109 

90.16 

(11) Roundness testing machine 

874 2109 

90 16 

(12) Furnace pressure controller 
to control the furnace pres¬ 
sure within 6±2.5mm Hg, 
alongwith the chimney Dam- 

874 3009 

90.74 
90 28 


per and actuate, Electrical 
tmpuiscr type. 


ITC-Rev. 2 ' CCCN 

Code Code 

(13) Glass level controller type 
pneumatic to control the glass 
level upto 0,177 alongwith 

the Controller to control and 07A 0 ,, l0 90.24 

to regulate the batch filling »/4 .sjuv 90.28 

mechanism (Glass Works 
equipment). 

(14) Oil gas air ration Controller ' 


and recorder. 

727.2209 

90.24 

(15) Electronic type vernier cali¬ 
pers. 

874.2103 

90.28 

(16) Leather thickness measuring 
gauges. 

874.5309 

90.16 

3. Testing Machines 



(1) Universal Testing Machine above 
100 tonnes capcity for testing 
industrial materials 

874.5301 

90.22 

(2) Metal Cccep Testing Machine 

874 5301 

90.22 

(3j Metal Fatigue Testing Machine 

874.5301 

90.22 

(4) Vickers Hardness Tester 

874.5301 

90 22 

(5) Automatic noise/vibration tester 

874.8309 

90.28 

4. Instrument, testing and electronic 
equipment 



(1) Am plidy nc Genera tors 

874.8919 

90.28 

(2) Ozone Generator with ozoniser 
cells, lines, wpodei) tank 

741.10009 

84.03 

(3) Combustible Gas indicator li ke 
gas detectors and accessories 
esplosimeters etc. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(4) Single pan analytical balance, 
minimum readability O.lmg. 

(0.0001 gm.) 

874.5109 

90.15 

(5) Vacuum type direct reading 
spectrometer 

874.4004 

90.25 

(6) Electron Microscope with or 
without analyser 

871.0301 

90.11 

(7) Automatic Direct Reading carbon 
and sulphur determinator 

874.4009 

90.25 

<8j Automatic Direct Reading Particle 
size determinator 

874.4009 

90.23 

(9) ESR meter 

874.8309 

90.28 

(10) Mattel gears 

874.8309 

90.28 

(11) Digital surface temprature probe 

874.8309 

90.28 

5. Machinery for manufacture of 
Garment/Hoslery/Made-ups, the 
following s— 



(1) Buttonhole Sewing machine. 724 

.3103 

84.41 

(2) Two Needle Flat Bed lock¬ 
stitch Industrial Sewing 
Machine. 724 

.3103 

84.41 



100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX I PART-B— Contd. 




ITC-Rer. 2 

CCCN Code 



ITC-Rev. 2 

CCCN 



Code 




Code 

Code 

(3) 

Power oper&ed flat-bed or 
circular knflRng machines 
other than those appearing 



(22) 

High Speed, two needle lock¬ 
stitch machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 


in'Part-A of this Appendix, 
but including socks knitting 



(23) 

Ba^ Tacking Machine. 

NA 

NA 


machines (other than Single 

724.5209 


(24) 

Single Needle Lockstitch 



(4) 

cylinder type). 

Button Stitch Sewing 

machine. 

84.37 

Machine built in trimmer, 
Speed above 4,000 stitches 





724.3103 

84.41 


per minute. 

724.3103 • 

84.41 

(5) 

Class Feed-off-lhe-arm Indus¬ 
trial Sewing Machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(25) 

Two or three needle chain- 
stitch machines. 

724,3103 

84.41 

l6) 

Two or three needle two 
thread chainstitch fccd-off- 



(26) 

Power driven, cloth cutting 
machine/tools. 

724.7405 

84.40 


tbe-arm machine. 

724.3103 

84 41 

(27) 

Tie Making Machines. 

724.5302 

84.37 

0) 

Lock stitch Tacker and Button 

724.3103 


(78) 

Collar Turning and Blocking 



18 ) 

Sewer. 

Blind Stitch Machines of 

84 41 


machine & Cuff Turning and 
Blocking machine. 

724 7419 

84 40 



various models. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(29) 

New Automatic Collar Tur¬ 



(9) 

Two thread chainstitch for 




ning machine, j 

724.7419 

8$.40 

high speed seaming and 
banding operation with gear 
driven puller feed compound 
feed of speed 3,000 stitches 



(30) 

Pocket creasing machine. 

724.7405 

84.40 




(31). 

Vacuum Table. 

724.7419 

84.40 


and above per minute. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(32) 

Elastic Lace making maohinc. 

724.5301 

87.37 

(10) 

Single Needle, cylinder bed 
upper feed blind stitch 



(33) 

Hook and Bar setting 




machine. 

724.3139 

84.41 


machine. 

— 

— 

(11) 

Elastic Inserting machine on 
variety of garment. 

728.4809 

84.59 

' (34) 

Rotary Ironing machine. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(12) 

Single needle, drop feed 



(35) 

Bandknife Cutting machine 

724.7405 . 

84.40 

chainstitch machine, speed 
above 4,000 stitches per 



(36) 

Cloth Laying machine. 

724.7419 

84.40 


minutc- 

724(3103 

84.41 

(37) 

Linking machine. 

NA 

NA 

(13) 

Thrcads cha nstiich top and 



(38) 

Shirt folding tables 

724.7905 

84.40 

■bottom covering machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(39) 

Collaratic culling machine 

724.7405 

84 40 


(14) 

Two needle ciuunstitch or 
lockstitch machines. 

724 3103 

84.41 

(40) 

Dias Cutting machine. 

724.7405 

84.40 

(15) 

Single needle lockstitch Flat 



(41) 

Spot Removing Guns. 

724.7419 

84.40 

Bed Machine, speed above 
4,000 stitches per minute 

724.3103 

84.41 

(42) 

Thread Cleaning machines. 

724,7419 

84.40 


.(16) 

High Speed two thread chain- 



(43) 

Presses for shirts, trouser* 




stitch machine l. 2 ui 3 
needles drop feed 

724 3103 

84.41 

and jackets. 

724.7419 

84.40 


(17) 

Slntd’ Needle H.it Bed Drop 



(44) 

Puling Presses 

724.7419 

84,40 


feed io «iich machine 

T24.3103 

84.41 

(45) 

Collar Pres*. 

774.7419 

84.40 

(18) 

U) Chainstitch osemdRlng 






machine* 

724.3103 

84.41 

(46) 

Cuff Pres*. 

724.7419 

84.40 


(i(| Sairiy Hitch Machines 

V24.3103 

84.41 

(47) 

Sleeve Pres*. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(19) 

High Speed twin needle feed 





lockstitch of speed 3,000 
stitches and above 

724 3103 

84.41 

(48) 

Steam Tables with steam 

Iron*. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(20) 

High Speed double needle 
lap seam felling Industrial 



(49) 

Qotb Drlllt, Notchers 

742.7405 

84.40 


sewing machine of speed 
3,000 stitches and above pel 



(30) 

Pa tv is Perforator 

NA 

NA 


mlnuic. 

734 TUI3 

»4 41 

(51) 

Mull! Me i J Embroider 

Machines 

T24 3303 

84.37 

(21) 

High Speed, needle Peed, 





two needle tlai bed lndiwuial 



l33) 

Scalloping Embroidery 




Se»hig Machln* 

n* iiu 1 

14.41 


UicbUrs 

T24 J303 

84 37 



(ffTff I—*TT ij 


vim Ttrmprw . arcnm ' t ' t l 


101 


APPENDIX 1 PAE I-B —<'«ii«. 




/PC-/fry > 

CCCN Codt 



ITC-Rev. 2 

CCCNCod, 



Code 




Cod* 


(53) 

Trycot Embroidery Machine*. 

VIA 3303 

84 37 

(83) 

Double jersey circular knit¬ 

m 


(54) 

Embroidery Machines (Gene¬ 




ting machine 

724’. 5209 

84.3t 


ral). 

• 

724.5303 

84 37 

(86) 

Sewing machine Zig Zag-Flai 



(55) 

Hemstitch Machine*. 

724.3103 

84 41 


bed. 

724 3103 

84 41A 

(5© 

Saddle Stitch Machines, 

724.3103 

84 41 

(87) 

High speed circular knitting 




- 




machines smkerbody 18gg 



(57) 

Label Stitching Machines. 

724.3103 

84.41 


and above with multifeedcrs 
(ovor 64. feeds) and equipped 
with a positive feed mccna- 



(58) 

Steam presses with Portable 




724.5209 

84 37 

Boilers. 

724.7419 

84.40 


nism. 

(39) 

Heat Transfer Press. 

728 7419 

84.40 

(88) 

High speed circular Rib 
machines (64 feeders and 



(60) 

Ticket Printing Machine, 




above) i 6gg and above and 



other than off-set. 

726.7209 

84.35 


equipped with a positive feed 
mechanism. 

724.5209 

84.37 

(61) 

(62) 

Pattern Making Machine. 

Shade Testing Machine. 

NA 

NA 

(89) 

High speed circular Interlock 



NA 

NA 

machines (64 feeders and 




Packing Machine. 


• 


above) 20gg and above 



(63) 

745 2209 

84.19 


equipped with a positive feed 
mechanism. 

724.5209 

84.37 

(64) 

Quilting Machine. 

NA 

NA 





(65) 

Fringing Machine. 

NA 

NA 

(90) 

High speed circular knitting 
machines for Terry fabrics 



(66) 

(67) 

Slitting Machine. 

Cloth Measuring and Testing 

724.7405 

84.40 

• 

with designing facility and 
equipped with a positive feed 
mechanism. 

724.5209 

84.37 


Machines. 

874.5301 

90.22 

(91) 

High speed circular eyelet 



(68) 

Knife Sharpening Machine*. 

736.1919 

84.45 


knitting machines 14gg and 
above and multifeeders and 



(69) 

Pattern Grading Machine. 

NA 

NA 


equipped with a positive feed 
mochanls. 

724.5209 

84.37 

(70) 

Steam Cabinet. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(92) 

Shrinkage controlling Machi¬ 

724.7419 

84.40 

(71) 

Steam ironing with or with¬ 
out cleaning tables. 

724.7419 

84.40 

nes for knitting fabrics. 




(93) 



(72) 

Checking Presses. 

Conveyors. 

NA 

NA 

Dyeing machines for tabular 
knitted fabrics. 

724.7403 & 
.7404 

84.40 


(73) 

(74) 

744.2301 & 
.2302 

84.22 

(94) 

Loop driers for tubular 
knitted fabrics. 

84.40 


724.7419 

Collar Printing Machine. 

724.7419 

84.40 




(75) 

Button sewing machine 
automatic. 

724.3 3 

84.41 

(95) 

Mercerising machines for 
tubular knitted fabrics. 

724.7406 & 
.7407 

84.40 

(76) 

Smocking Machines. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(96) 

Singing machines for tubular 
fabrics. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(77) 

Calendering Machine. 

745.2101 

84.16 




(78) 

Button and Rivet Fixing 
Machines and/or dies thereof. 

NA 

NA 

(97) 

Raising machines for tubular 
knitted fabrics. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(79) 

Cup Seaming Machine. 

724.3103 

84,41 

(98) 

Pile cutting machines for 
knitted fabrics. 

724.7405 

84.40 

(80) 

Candle Wick T ufting 

Machine. 

NA 

NA 

(99) 

High speed multiple Needle 
sewing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(81) 

Econe Copier (Pa(tern Dup¬ 
licator). 

NA 

NA 

(100) 

Plntochmg High Speed multi¬ 
ple needle machine. 

724 3103 

84.41 

(82) 

Trimo—Trim Master Fitted 






with Howver motor. 

NA 

NA 

(101) 

Automatic pocket weld sew¬ 
ing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(83) 

Fullv fashioned Flat knitting 
machine (power driven). 

724.5209 

84.37B 

(102) 

Edge control seamers 

724.3103 

84.41 

V 

(84) 

Snap fastners fixing machines 
and/or dies thereof 

NA 

NA 

(103) 

Automatic serger with spe«d 
control devices. 

— 




102 


[Part I.. Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 



APPENDIX 1 


ITC-Rev 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(104) Twin added automatic cuff 
cutton holding-machine. 

_ * 

_. 

[105) Single Cylinder Socks Knit¬ 
ting Machine. 

NSC 

84.37 

(106) High speed needle cock stitch 
industrial sewing machine of 
speed 4000 stitches and above 
per minute. 

724 3103 

84 41 

(107) Chain stitch tacker Button 
sower. 

724 3103 

84 41 

(108) Sodium chloride bleaching 
plants for knitted tabular 
fabrics complete with all ancll- 
•laiies. 

NSC 

84 40 

(109) Socks setting and dyeing 
machines. 

724 7403 

7404 

84 40 

(110) Bag dosing machine two needle 724 3103 , 

84 41 

(111) C&mponent numbering 

machine. 

NSC . 

84 35 

(112) Tee shirt printing curing 
machine. 

NSC 

84 40 

(113) Paper Press for finishing of 
fabrics. 

NSC 

84.40 

(114) Continuous decatlsing machine. 

NSC 

84.60 

6. Machinery for Leather processing/ 
flnl siting/in »nu hicture. 


• 

(I) Tanning machines required for 
finishing units i 



(1) Hydraullc/InJectronic fleshing 
machines. 

724.8002 

84.42 

(2) Hydraullc/Pneumattc sam- 
mying machine. 

724.8002 

84.42 

(3) Combined hydraulic sam- 
mylng and setting machines. 

724.8002 

84.42 

(4) Hydraulic/Pneumatic/Inject- 
ronlc setting machines. 

724.8002 

84,42 

(5) Hydraulic shaving machine 
above 1250 mm. 

724,8002 

84.42 

(6) Vibration Type staking 
machine. 

724.8002 

84,42 

(7) Leather buffing machines— 
1200 mm and above. 

724.8002 

84.42 

. (8) Curtain coating machine. 

743.2709 

84.21 

(9) Automatic padding machine 
and drying machine. 

741.6019 

84.17 

(10) Rotary Ironing machine. 

724.8009 

84.42 

(11) Rotary printing machine for 
leathers. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(12) Embossing plates and eng¬ 
raved rollers for leather. 

724.8009 

84 42 


PART-B— Contci. 



ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Cads 

(13) Hydraulic sulphide applica tor. 

724.8002 

84.42 

(14) Leather Polishing Machine 
and Creasing Machine. 

724 80(59 

84.42 

(15) Colorimeter. 

724.4009 

90.23 

(16) Pneumatic glazing machine. 

724.8009 

84.42 

(17) Seco-Therm.type drying units. 

741.6019 

84.17 

(18) Stretching and drying machine 
with or without conveyor 
and toggles. 

741.6019 

84.17 

(19) Automatic Rotary type spra¬ 
ying machine wjth 4 (four) 
spray guns or more 

745.2703 

84.21 

(20) Automatic/semi-automatic 
Hydraulic Press (750 tonnes 
or more). 

728.4809 

84.59 

(21) Hydraulic splitting machine 
for leather. 

_ 


(22) Band knife splitting machine 
(non-hydr.luhc) 

736 2309 - 

84 42 

(li) Leather footwear machinery, 
leather goodf machinery and 
machinery for leather apparel ;— 



(1) Strap cutting machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(2) Strap folding machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(3) Upper folding machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(4) Insole covering machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(5) Bat bed double needle 
sewing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(6) Post bed-single needle sew¬ 
ing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(7) Post bcd-doublc needle sew¬ 
ing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(8) Post bed-single needle under 
edge trimming. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(9) Raised cord sewing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(10) Sewing machine Zig Zag- 
Flat bed. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(11) Sewing machine oylinder bed. 

724.3103 , 

84.41 

(12) Automatic lock-stitching 

cylinder bed bartacker. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(13) Coarse stitch arm-type sewing 
machine for ruffled work aod 
genuine mocassin. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(14) Puffing over machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(15) Puffing over and cement 
lasting machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(16) Tack lasting machine 

724.8001 

84.42 

(17) Kambori m lasting machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 



[«mr I—<rr 1 ] 


*TTOT TT TTCPTO SFriUTTW 


103 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Cqnid. 




ITC-Rev. 2 

CCCN 


ITC-Rev. 2 

CCCN 



Code 

Code 


Code 

Code 

(18) 

Outsolc stitching machine. 

724.3103 

84 41 

(50) Button sewing machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(19) 

Heel scat cement lasting 
machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(51) High speed twin needle 
fetd lockstitch of speed of 



(20) 

Mokay stitching machine. 

724.3103 

84 41 

3,000 stitches pnd above 

724 3103 

84 41 

(21) 

Automatic punching and eye¬ 
letting machine. 

724.8001 

84 42 

(52) Testing equipments, 

namely, Flexometer, 

874.5309 

90.22 
90 23 

(22) 




Lastometer, Penetrom- 


90 24 

String lasting machine. 

724,8001 

84.39 

metcr, Permeometer 

Rub Fastness Tester 


90 25 
90 28 

(23) 

Buckle slappluig machine. 

Clicking machine hydraulic 

724.8001 

84.42 

(wet and dry), Dyeing 
and Tumbling machine 


(24) 


724 8001 

84.42 

(laboratory model), 

Tensile Tester, Sole 




(bottom). 





Adhesion tester, Shrink¬ 



(25) 

Insole attaching machine. 

724.8001 

84 42 

age Temperature Test¬ 
ing machine, Abrasive 



(26) 

Fore part lasting machine 
(Astra type). 

724.8001 

84.42 

Tester for leather/ru!> 
ber soles and sole flea 






resistance tester. 



(27) 

Side Lasting machine (Hyd¬ 
raulic). 

724.8001 

84.42 

(53) Designer’s kit consist¬ 
ing of designer’s knife, 

874.5309 * 


(28) 

Edge trimming machine. 

724 7001 

84 42 






shoe measuring tape, 



(29) 

Edge setting machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

designer’s tape, and 
satra vacuum former 



(30) 

Counter moulding machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(or, 'y 5 kits in a year 
• can be imported by one 



(31) 

Counter tlghting machine. 

724.8001 

84 42 

unit). 



(32) 

Heel breasting machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(54) Hydraulic scudding 


! 



machines. 


(i) 84.40 

(33) 

Heel building machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(55) Crimping machine. 


Is for 


874.5309 

y textile 

(34) 

Stamping machine for upper/ 



(56) Forepart conditioning 




lining/socks. 

724.8001 

84.42 

874.5309 

fill 84.42 

(35) 


> 

machine. 


is for 

Upper forming machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(57) PoundJng/Beating and 

874.5309 

leather 


(36) 

Upper perforating machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

ironing machine. 



(37) 

Pattern grading machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(58) Lining roughing machine 

874.5309 


(38) 

Upper seam rubbing machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(59) Automatic Taping and 

Seam Rubbing Machine. 

874.5309 


(39) 

Upper reinforcing machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(60) Thermo-cementlng-cum- 

874.5309 1 


(40) 

Upper cementing machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

folding machine. 



(41) 

Mocassin lining trimming 
machine. 

724.8001 

84,42 

Pattern Making Machine> 

• 


(42) 

Mocassin preforming machine. 

724.8001 

84,42 




(43) 

Folding machine for sides 



(61) Pattern binding, machine. 

724.4400 

84.59 


for brief case. 

724 8009 

84,42 

(62) Pattern corner cutting and 



(44) 

Blind eyelcttlng machine 



binding machine. 

778.120 9 

84 47 

(Automatic). 

724.8009 

84.42 

(63) Hole punching machine. 

728.1209 

84.47 


(45) 

High speed comer stitching 

724.3103 

84.41 


* 



machine. 

(64) Shears for cutting pattern. 

728.1209 

'84.47 

(46) 

Suit-case stitching machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 


* 






(65) Vice for holding pattern. 

695.3919 

82 04 

(47) 

Heavy duty cylinder bed 






industrial sewing machine. 

724,3103 

84.41 

(66) Punches for Model Room. 

695.340; 

82 03 

(48) 

Two needle lock-stltching 
machine. 

724.3103 

84.41 

i67) Knife making equipment for 
cold steel and forged steel. 

NA 

NA 

(49) 

Button hole (eyelets end) 





" 

machine, head only. 

724.8009 

84.42 

(68) Punches of all varieties. 

695,3402 

84.03 



104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 

ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 



Code 

r r J, 

Closing Room Machines 



(69) Upper Embossing machine 

724.8009 

84.42 

(70) Cementing machine and 
oe men ting gun 

745.2709 

84.21 

(71) Upper edge inking machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(72) Automatic lacing machine 

724.8001 

84.42 

(73) Stitch marking machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(74) Lining trimming machine. 

.724,8001 

84.42 

(73) Toe cap applicator thermo¬ 
plastic. 

728.4809 

84.59 

Sewing Machines 



(76) High speed (3000 stitches per 
minute and abovo) fiat bed 
single needle industrial sewing 
machine. 

72-1.3103 

84.41 

(77) High speod (3000 stitches per 
minute and above) flat bod 
single needle Industrial sewing 
machine with under trimmer. 

724.3103 

84.41 

(78) Multlplo row upper chain 
stitching machine l.e. 3 rows 
and above. 

724.3103 

84.41 

Units SoksjCounters/Insoles/Heels 


(79) Channelling and grooving. 

724.8001 

84,42 

(80) Automatic roughing machine 
for soles and Insoles. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(81) Heel attaching machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(82) Welt (Rand) attaching ma¬ 
chine. 

724.8001 

84 42 

(83) H6cl and sole brushing ma¬ 
chine. 

724.8001 ' 

84.42 

(84) Heel and sole buffing ma¬ 
chine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(83) Evening and roughing ma¬ 
chine for soles and In solos. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(86) Edge Inking machine for 
soles. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(87) Heel nailing machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(88) Edge pro-trimming machine 

724.8001 

84.42 

(89) Recessing and roughing soles 

724.8001 

84.42 

(90) Recessing welt. 

724.80m 

84.42 

(91) Scouring ano t ..nding machine 

72-, 8 an 

84.42 

(92) Studs attaching mm i me. 

24 8001 

84.42 

(93) Heel building mcoinr 

7 4.8001 

84,4? 

(94) Heel covering “.miK, one 

Dm tic. 

7 4.800) 

84.42 

(93) Leather cover cuitiny m,. 
chine for heels. 

724. 001 

84.42 

(96) Screwing machine 

724.8‘ 01 

84.42 


PART B --C umd. ‘ 



nV-Rev. 2 

Code 

CCCN Cod* 

(97) Loose/nalling machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(98) Top lift Mugging machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(99) Channel dosing machine. 

724.800) 

84.42 

(100) Humidifier for uppers. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(101) Ironing and conditioning ma¬ 
chine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(102) Sole levelling machine. 

V24 8001 

84.42 

(103) Twin Sole attaching machine. 

724.8001 

84.42 

(104) Reactivating plant for shoes 
and soles. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(105) Dust Removing machlne- 
pncumatlc/hydraul ic 

728,4809 

84.39 

(106) Edge-Setting machine. 

724 8001 

84.42 

(iil) The following machines for 
leather 

manufacture 

Ol woven 

(1) Electrical machine for cutting 
and slanting straps. 

774 8002 

84.42 

(2) Automatic machine to coot 
rol, to slant and to glue 
leather straps. 

' M. 8002 

84.42 

(3) EloctroPneuamatic weaving 
machine for leather. 1 

724.8002 

84.42 

(4) Bobbin machine with counter. 

7248002 

84 42 

7. Dental Equipment 



(!) Casting machine and accesso¬ 
ries,. 

737.1109 

84.43 

(2) Centrifuges and ultra-centri¬ 
fuges having speed more than 
16/000 rpm 

743.5009 

84 18 

(3) Electrical drill, heating fur¬ 
nace, electrical pulrn, dental. 

872.0101 

90 17 

(4) Dental high '.peed cutting and 
furnishing and polishing lead. 

872.0101 

90.17 


«. Clnfnsti)|iMi |, li' Studio and Film Laboratory Equipment 


(1) Film cleaning ned/or waxing 

ind/or no-ishiag machine*. 881.3900 90.10 

(2) Colour Film Printing Machines. 881.3900 90,10 

(3) Reduction and/or Enlarging 

printers fo picture and sound 881.3900 90.10 

(4) Film Numhermg machine*. 881.3900 90.10 

(5) Sensitocinters or icnsiiumeters 874.4029 90.28 

(6) Counters tot 11 .ntn/35 mm/ 

171 mm/16 mm/8 mm films 

measuring film-lengths 873.2009 90,27 

(71 Colour-temperature meters, 
exposure meter-, density 

viewers. 874.4029 90.23 



[nm I— 4 * 1 ] 


HTOTTTTmw: H HT HTOH 


105 


APPENDIX l 



ITC-Rtt. 2 
Code 

occn Codt 

(8) Projection footage counters. 

873.2009 

90.27 

(9) Colour film analyser. 

874.4029 

90.23 

(10) Cinematograph cameras 

(70 mm, 35 mm, 16 mm, 

8 mm) with attachments In¬ 
cluding lenses and 200m lens. 

881.2 

90.08 

(11) Intermodulation and/or cross 
modulation sets for checking 
film distortion. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(12) Animation stand (for trick 
work). 

881,3900 

90.10 

(13) Magnetic stripping mfl'chinrr 
(16 mm/35mm/70mm) 

881.3900 

90.10 

(14) 70/35 mm film processing ma¬ 
chines with accessories (for 
colour films). 

881.3900 

90.10 

(lS) Optical printers reduction- 
blow up and special effect. 

881,3900 

90,10 

(16) Sound Transfer Equipment— 
Magnetic to optical, tape to 
tape and tape to disc with c.l.f. 
value above Rs. 2 lakhs. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(17) Sound mixing equipment. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(18) 16 mm Dual/Tripplc Dubbcr. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(19) 16 mm Optical recorders. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(20) Optical effects and trick print¬ 
ing machine (16 mm). 

881.3900 

90.10 

(21) 16 mm colour processing 
plants. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(22) 16 mm Xenon or arc projec¬ 
tors with a throw of 60 feet or 
more for the theatrical studio/ 
laboratory use. 

,881.2102 

90.08 

(23) Automtio or semi-automatic 
film developing and process¬ 
ing machines with micro proce- 
cessor based system. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(24) Editing machines 16 mm, 

35 mm, and 70 mm or com¬ 
bined (excluding flat bed type) 

881.3900 

90.10 

(25) Notching machines. 

RSI.3900 

90.10 

(26) High Speed Inspection pro¬ 
jectors. 

8*1 ,2102 

90.08 

(27) High speed 33 mm, 70 nun 
and M mm revenlW* v*obo- 

tio* equipment. 

811 ?107 

SO os 

(28) Animation camera with atta¬ 
chments and accessories. 

881.2102 

90.08 

(29) Colour filters, glass, gelating 
and acetate. 

884.11 - 

90.01 

(30) Neck tie microphole/cordless 
microphone. 

764.2001 

85.14 


58 GI/85—8. 


PART-B— Contd. 


ITC-Rtt. 2 CCCNCmU 
Cod* 

(31) Equipment required for pro¬ 
fessional recording studios, 
the following i— 


(I) 33 mm and 16 mm 
magnetic recorders, re- 


oorders/reproducers. 

761.8100 

92.11 

(//) 35 mm and 16 mm optical 
recorders. 

881.2103 

90.08 

(///) Interlock motors. 

716.2119 

85.01 

(It) Electronic looping-system 
or Electronic Synchronl- 
ser/Progragimer system 

772.1013 

85.19 

(v) 12mm (J*) and 6 mm (1*) 
professional recorders For 
stereo and multi-track re¬ 
cordings. 

881.2 

90.08 

(»/) Tape recorders with 2' 
magnetic tape. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(»//) Optical count down asse¬ 
mbles. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(till) Advance/retard signal 

generator. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(lx) Reverberation unit. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(x) Room simulator unit. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(xi) Noise gate. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(xll) Compressor/Llmltor, 

881.3900 

90.101 

(32) Film Editing machine of 
fiat-bod type costing moro 
than Rs. 1.5 lakh c.i.f. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(33) High quality studio oondon- 
sor microphone. 

764.2001 

83.14 

(34) Foot operated film splicers/ 
hot spUcors. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(35) Loop cabinet or loop tree. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(36) Perforation repair machine. 

881,3900 

90.10 

(37) Programme Tape preparation 
system for use with Colour 
film printing Machines. 

881.3900 

90,10 

(38) Equipment for frame count 
ouaiog for use with Colour 
Film Printing Machines. 

881.1900 

90.10 

(39) Autoroatio/semi-automatlg 

Film developing processing 
and printing machines with 
micro processor based system 
for still colour photography 
for Photographic Studios. 

881.1900 

90 10 

9 Tm luuaUor 



(1) Tea bag machine—non-h«tL 
seals paper bags IMA and/or 
"** other makes. 

743.2209 

84.19 

(2) Tea hag machine for *-*#•! 
paper bags. 

745.2209 

84.19 





106 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B—ConM. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN Cod* 
Cod* 


(3) Code printing machinery. 

726.7109 

84.35 

10- (1) Machinery for manufacture of electronic component* 

and equipment. 

(1) Centra) signal sweep system 
comprising of i— 



(a) R.F. Distrlbulon Ampli¬ 
fier. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(A) Accessories. 



(1) Attenuators. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(/<) Marker Adder. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(///) Signal distributor. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(e) Current probes. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(rf) Voltage probes. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(2) VHF and UHF Sweep 
Generator (manual aurtrv- 
matlc channel selection). 

874,8309 

90.28 

(3) Video IF Sweep Generator— 
with Marker Generator. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(4) Central signal supply for TV 
Testing Comprising of • 



(a) TV Synoh Generator, 
Test Generator, Tost 
Pattern Generator/ 

- Function Generator. 

864.8309 

90.28 

(b) Modulator 

764.3001 

86.13 

(c > Transmitter 

.764.3001 

85.15 

(9) High precision cycle ttlng ma¬ 
chines with automatic feed 
mechanism for eyelets with 
shank d)a. less than 0.065' 
for contact assembly. 

736.7309 

84.43 

(6) High precision semi-automa¬ 
tic rivetting maohines for oon- 
taot assembly with rivet shank 
dl«. less than 0.123'. 

736.7301 

84,43 

(7) Compression rlvctters with 
quick return mechanism/ 

736.7301 

84.43 

(8) Capacitance discharge wold- 
dlng machines with power 
supply and weld-head with 
maximum energy setting upto 
300 watt seconds suitable for 
precious metal welding. 

737,3219 

83.11 

(9) Hot-th? twoexer welder for 
special contact soldering using 
preformed solder. 

737.3219 

83.11 

(10) Miniature pneumatlo/elcctrical 
table mounting offset printing 
maohines for product print¬ 
ing. 

726.7109 

84.33 

(11) Leak tester and or vibration 
teste* ■ 

874.8919 

90.28 

(12) 'Automatic coil or foil winding 5 
machine. 

728.4809 

84.99 

(13) Temperature Cycling progra¬ 
mmed Heat-treatment Oven 
for heat stabilisation of pro¬ 
fessional grade plastic film 
cao icitors 

741.3103 

83.11 


rrc-R**. 2 occn coa * 



Code 


(14) Metallisation plant or Metal 
spraying equipment for plas¬ 
tic film capacitors. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(13) Automatic welding machine 
for termination of plaxtio film 
capacitors (Metallised and 
foil types). 

737.3219 

84.11 

(16) Large screen alignment Osol- 
lloscope/Polysoope. 

874.8302 

90.28 

(17) Automatic Tape Wraplng Ma¬ 
chine for Plaatlo Film Capa¬ 
citors. 

728.4809 

84-99 

(18) Dip Coating equipment for 
Capacitors. „ 

728.4809 

84.59' 

(19) Automatic prlntlng/Marklng 
equipment. 

(20) Automatic testing machine 
for capacitors with any of the 
following teat functions i 

726.7109 

84.39 

(l) Capacitance. 

874.83 

90.28 

((f) Tan Delta. 

874.83 

90.28 

(Iff) H. P. Impedance. 

874.83 

90.28 

(h) Leakage current. 

874.83 

90.28 

(») Insulation Roslstanoe. 

874.83 

90.28 

(21) Leakage Tester for Hermeti¬ 
cally Sealed Film Capacitors. 

874.83 

90.28 

(22) Automatic solder dipping ma¬ 
chine with programmed feeds. 

737.3221 

85.11 

(23) Automatic Bar cut-off with 
stripper attachment. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(24) Automatic feed welding ma¬ 
chines with programmed lead 
assembly stations and auto¬ 
matic Bolder adopter station. 

737.3219 

83.11 

(23) Automatic Terminal Capping 
machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(26) Automatic Resistance value 
pei forming machine by helix 
cutting. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(27) Colour ooding machine with 
auto feeder. 

728.4809 

84.99 

(28) Distortion Anaylser. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(29) VHF/UHF Modulator. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(30) WOW & Flutter Meters. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(31) WOW & Flutter Wave Analysers. 874.8309 

90.28 

(32) WOW & Flutter Calibrator*. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(33) Torque Gaugei/Meters. 

874.2109 

90.16 

(34) Tension Meter*. 

874.2109 

00.16 

(33) Noise Meter/Noise level meter/ 
Sound level meter. 

874.8309 

90.28 



[«mt I—*r» i] 


VTOi vr rrarm: stctokw 


107 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 




ITC-Kev. 2 
Code 

OCCN Code. 

(36) 

Automatio Sleeving and/or 
assembly machine for capacl J 
>rs. 

728.4809 

84. J9 


. lUtomatle Stitcher and/or 
Winder for eloctrolytio capaci¬ 
tor*. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(38) 

Peak milllvoltmeter. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(39) 

Q Meter. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(40) 

Inductance Meter. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(41) 

Frequency synthesiser. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(42) 

Stereo multiplex generators. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(43) 

Hetrodyne Voltmeter. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(44) 

Wave solderlng/flow solder- 
Ing/re-flow solderlng/drag 
soldering systems/maohlne. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(43) 

Automatio wire cutting, and 
■tripping machine with or 
without welding attachment 

728.4800 

84.39 

(46) 

Temperature controlled sold¬ 
ering Irons. 

737.32 

83.11 

(47) 

High Accuracy LCR Bridge* 
(0.01 % and above tolerance) 

874.8309 

90.28 

(48) 

Frequency / Wave / Spectrum 
Analysers, 

874.8309 

90.28 

(49) 

AC/DC Staodords/Sources. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(30) 

Multimeter Calibrators. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(31) 

Decade Resistance Standards. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(32) 

Noise generators—'all types. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(33) 

Turn tables for polar mea¬ 
surement 

— 

— 

(34) 

Artificial ears/artlflclal mas¬ 
toid . 

899.6100 

90.19 

(33) 

Carbon and/or metal/ocrmet 
traok writing/coating machine 

728.4809 

84.39 


(56) Automatic Vacuum coater, eva¬ 
porator including Electron 
Beam Evaporation system. 
sputteilng unit, beat aided 
ooater for depositing various 
metal films, metal oxide films 


and Photo-resist films. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(37) Laser belhdng machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(38) Auto-cappJng machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(39) (Automatio machine for re¬ 
sistors with one or more of 
the following functions vii.i 



(a) Lead welding, 

(ft) Lacquering. 
le) Testing. 

(d) Colour coding. 

(s)T Sorting. 

(/)’Pacldog. 

- 728.4809 

84.39 


ITC-Rcv, 2 CCCNCoH 
Cod* 


(«0) 

Precision digital RMS multi¬ 
meters and volt meter (6i di¬ 
gits and above). 

874.8301 & 
874.8309 

90.28 

«1) 

Float Zone and CSO Chra- 
losld crystal growth equip¬ 
ment for growing semicon¬ 
ductor single crystal. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(62) 

Epitaxial reactors for deposi¬ 
tion of Semi-Conductor ma¬ 
terials. 

728.4809 

84.89 

(63) 

Micro film printing machine. 

881.39 

90.10 

(64) 

Step and repeat cameras. 

881.11 

90. OT 

(63) 

Laser trimmers. 

728.4809 

84 39 

(66) 

Stereo zoom microscope. 

871.0409 

90.12 

(67) Spiralling machine/groove 
cutting machine for resistors: 

728.4809 

84.39 

(68) 

Die Bonders and/or wire 
bonders for semi-conductor 
manufacture. 

i 

728.4809 

84.59 

(69) 

Wafer soribers or sllcers or 
sawing machines or wafer 
facturer or any combination 
of these. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(70) 

Diffusion furnace for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture. 

741.3103 

83.11 

(71) 

Conveyor belt fbmace for 
manufacture of cermet poten¬ 
tiometers, thick film micro¬ 
circuit* or semi-conductors. 

741.3103 

83.1) 

(72) 

Wafer processing and masking 
equipment for photo resist 
coating, spinning, exposure, 
alignment, baking and deve¬ 
lopment for semiconductor 
manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(73) 

Curve tracer for displaying 
semi-conductor device charac¬ 
teristics. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(74) 

Automatic testing or brand 
marking or taping machines 
or any combination of these. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(75) 

Automatic or semi-automatic 
sorter and/or handler for 
transistors, Integrated circuits, 
diodes and capacitors, 

728.4809 

84.59 

(76) 

(a) Spin driers/rinser driers. 

728.4809 

84.59 


(ft) Scrubbing machine for 
wafers. 

728.4809 

84.59 


(e) Re-ribblng machine for 
printed circuit boards. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(77) 

Wafer and/or mask Inspection 
equipment, including wafer 
probers and testers. 

728.4809 

84.39 







108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1]] 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B—Onfd. 




TTC-X*>. 2 

CCCNCo* 




Code 



(78) 

Resistivity type measuring and 
or sorting equipment for 



(93) 


silicon wafers used In semi¬ 
conductor manufacturer. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(96) 

(79) 

(a) Automatic oapaoitance 





voltage measurement 

equipment. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(97) 


(6) Junction profilers for 
semi-conductor manufacturer 

728.4809 

84.39 


(80) 

Spotplating machine for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture/lead 



(98) 


frames. 

728.4809 

84.39 


(81) 

Metallurgical microscope for 
semi conductor manufacture 
(Magnification equal to or 





greater than 400) 

871.0301 

90.11 




* 


(99) 

(82) 

Plasma etchers and/or wafer 
etching machines for dry or 
■pray etching of silicon wafers 

778.8600 

83.22 



(83) 

Silicon wafer lapping or grin¬ 
ding or abraidlng or edge pro¬ 


_ 

(100) 

(84) 

filing machines or any combi¬ 
nation of these. 

Screen printing machine for 
screen printing on ceramic & 
dielectric substrates or silicon 
wafers, used in the manufactu- 
ture of ceramic capacitors, 
mica capacitors, semi conduc¬ 
tors; cermet potentiometers 
or thiok film mJcro-olrcultB. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(101) 



728.4809 

84.34 


(85) 

Monitor for plated thickness 
or vapour deposited thickness 

874.3 

90.28 


(86) 

Ion implantation machine for 
doping semi-conductors. 

728.4809 

84.39 


(87) 

Tomperatare cycling and en¬ 
vironmental oven for heat 
stabilisation of electronic 





components. 

741.3103 

83.11 


(88) 

First Reduction Camera (up- 
to 50 reduction). 

881.11 

90.07 

(102) 

(89) 

Transfer moulding press 



(103) 


(Hydraulic) for transistors, 
diodes. Integrated circuits and 

■ 




other semiconductor devices. 

736.2809 

84.43 


(90) 

Lifo test equipment for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture- 

874.8309 

90.28 

(104) 

(91) 

Axial lead straight!)er and/or 



(103) 


sorter. 

728.4809 

84.39 


(92) 

Oxygen monitor to measure 
oxygen in gases used in Semi¬ 
co nductur device manufacture 
with sensitivity 300 ppm o» 
hetter. 

874.4001 

90.28 

(106) 

(ion 

(108) 

(93) 

Rotary/OsciJIatlng futnaoe 
for ferrites 

741.3103 

84.14 

(109) 

(94) 

Ultrasonic welding roach 
Including plastic w*ld« f**« 





electronic nnnip»n»nt*. 

737 3221 

85.11 



ITC-Re*. CCCN Co* 
Co* 


machine. 728.4809 

Electrolyte Impregnating 
equipment for capacitor*. 728.4809 


epoxy resin injector filler/ 
encapsulating equipment/ ' 
microdispensing equipment. 728.4809 


pherio hydrogen or vacuum 
baking/sintering ovens for 
8 eml-oonductors. capacitor* 

& electronic tube* manu¬ 
facture. 741.3103 


naces with tray conveyance 
for ferrites, electron tube and 
capacitor manufacture* 


manufacture. 

Tolling and measuring Instru¬ 
ments for loud speakers and 
other audio oquipmont, con¬ 
sisting of one or more of the 
following l— 

(a) Level chart recorder. 

(4) High quality calibrated 
oondcnsor micro-phone 
with stand. 

(c) Sine random generator. 
(</) Gating system. 

(«) Response test unit. 

(J) 9p m t*uiii analyser. 

tg) Hetrodyne analyser with 
associated filter. 

Phase meter. 

Sound Transfer Equipment 
Magnetic to optical, tape to 
tape and tape to disc with 
c.u. value above Rju 2 lakhs. 

(104) Sound miring equipment. 

igrammabl* **aier for 


741.3102 


741.8019 


diodes. 


repeaters with asso¬ 
ciated roviroamsatsl chamber 


Dost tevci ruanlMr/Tero* 
hoods/duit precipitators. 


Treatment furnace for Alnico/ 
Cast Alloy Permanent Mag¬ 
nets. 


84.39 

84.39 

84.59 


84.11 

83.11 
84.17 


-874.8309 

90.28 

- *74.8309 

90.28 

874.8309 

90.28 

778-8600 

83.22 

778.8600 

85.22 

728.4809 

84.39 

881.3900 

#0.10 

T9* 4809 

14 IP 

(43.8009 

84.18 


741.3102 


83.11 



l*TC X—«T 1] 




109 


APPENDIX 




ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCNCodt 

<1W) 

High precision hydraulic 
presses with variable steps 
and variable capacity upto 3 
tons suitable for mounting on 
assembly tables. 

728.4609 

84.39 

(111) 

Direct and back geared minia¬ 
ture punch presses suitable 
for mounting on assembly 
tables. 

736.2301 

83.43 

(112) 

Automatic temperature con¬ 
trolled precision moulding 
press for encapsulation. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(113) 

Diamond Cutting Machine 
on Metal, 

736.1604 

84.43 

(114) 

Automatki/Semi-Automatto 
Tab moking/Sottlng Machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(U5) 

Automatlc/Seml-automattc 
Curling Machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(116) 

Automatto/Semi-autoinatle 

Cutter. 

881.3900 

90.(0 

(117) 

Automatlc/Semi-Automatic 

Slitter. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(118) 

Wire forming Machine for 
Ceramic Capacitors. 

728.4809 

84.19 

1119) 

Pneumatic screw drivers/ 
Pneumatic PCS Lead cutters. 

743.1109 

84.49 

(120) 

Printed Circuit Board Post 
Soldering-Lead Trimming 
Machines. 

737.3221 

84.11 

(121) 

Vibration Test-Machines with 
Auto-Fsequeocy Changes. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(122) 

Lead Forming Machines for 
Electronic Components. 

728.4809 

84.99 

(123) 

Thermal Wire Stripping 
Equipment. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(124) 

PCB Lead Cutting & Bending 
tools. Pneumatically or elec¬ 
trically operated. 

743.1109 

84.49 

(123) 

Colour TV Pattern Generator 

874.8309 

90,28 

(126) 

Colour Synthesiser. 

874.8309 

90,28 

(127) 

Video Response generator 
(Burst Generator). 

874.8309 

90.28 

(121) 

Lai metes. 

874.4029 

90.24 

(130) 

Character Generator, 

874,8309 

90.28 

(131) 

Hand Crimping Tools, 

695.3919 

82,04 

(132). 

Blank cleaning & etching 
system. 

728.4809 

84.59/85.17 

(133) 

automatic cold weld sealing 
equipments with high vacuum 
system. 

728.4809 

84.59/58.11 


1 PART-B —Contd 




ITC'Rev, 2 
Code 

CCCN Code 

(134) 

Watch crystal quality factor 
tester. 

874.8309 

'90.28 

(133) 

Microprocessor controlled 
auto tempqrature character 
tester. 

874.4029 

90.23 

(136) 

Quartz watch analyser. 

374.3039 

90.28 

(137) 

Mask oleaner for semiconduc¬ 
tor manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(138) 

Magesonic oleaner for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(139) 

Forming equipment suitable 
for anodio forming of 500 mm/ 
230 mm wide etched alumi- 
mium foil complete * with 
standard accessories. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(140) 

Special testing & calibration 
equipment for electronic milk 
analysers, including calibra¬ 
tor, mJlk-o-testor, Homogenl- 
scr Tester, Cuvette Tester 
and Electronic circuit Tester. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(141) 

Instruments for electronic 
industry, the following t— 


* 


0) Field strength meter/ 
Sold level meter. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(if) Colour analyser/whlte 
balance oheoker/whlto 
, balanoa tester. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(ill) Degaussing coil. 

874.3 

90. 


(N) Colour purity motet. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(v) Focus checker. 

874.830S 

90.28 


(vi) Video Test signal Tester. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(vii) Wave fotm monitor. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(viii) Veotroscope. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(lx) Digital LCR Bridge. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(x) Standard signal genera- 
tor/souroe. 

874.8309 

90.28 


(si) Distortion measurement 
control unit 

874.8309 

90.28 


(ill) Phase delay unit. 

874.8309 

90,28 


(xill) Network analysers 

874.8309 

90.21 


(xiv) Miorowavs sweep signal 
generators. 

778.8600 

" 83.22 

(142) 

Wlr< wrapping tools. 

743.1109 

84.49 

t, 143) 

Stroboscope, 

873.2011 

90.27 

it**) 

Calendering raachln* .'or 

magnetic tape industry w 'lb 

xavomoilm. 

74J 110J 

84 16 



110 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 



ITC-Riv. 2 
Code 

CCCNCod* 

(145) Semi-automatio/Automatic 

component Insertion machine 
for PCB's assembly with 
accessories. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(146) Component taping machine 
with accessories. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(147) De-soldering machine/tool 
for removing of oomponents 
from PCB. 

728.4809 

•4.59 

(148) Magnetic tape coating plant 
with/without calendering ma¬ 
chine and with/without dryer. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(149) Oscilloscope calibration 

system. 

874.8309 

96.28 

(150) In-circujt component testing 
machine. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(151) Cold chamber minus 30*C 
and below. 

741.4019 

84.15 

(152) Semi-automatic machine for 
inserting lead screw into 
potontiomotor homing for 
potentiometers. 

728.4899 

84.59 

(153) Semi-automatio machine for 
assembling oover to potentio¬ 
meter tracks. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(154) Semi-automatic and auto¬ 
matic torminal/pln forming 
and/or assembling machine 
for potentiometers. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(155) Vapour degreasing for clean¬ 
ing of components. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(156) Surface roughness tester. 

874.2109 

90.16 

(157) Thickness tester for measur¬ 
ing the dried print thickness 
of aermet prints used in the 
manufacture of potentio¬ 
meters and thick dim mlcro- 
, circuits. 

874.2109 

16.90 

(158) Viscosity rooter 

874.4009 

90.25 

(159) Machine for rotation of 
potentiometer shaft during 
testing. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(160) Solvent casting equipment 
used for final sealing of 
potentiometer and thick film 
mioro-drcuit packages, 

728.4809 

84.59 

(161) Hot air levelling equipment 
for PCB production. 

728,4809 

84.59 

(162) Etching system complete with 
etohout regeneration in-line 
Ink removal and washing for 
PCB production. 

723.4809 

84.59 

(163) Magnetic meter for totting of 
magnetic tapes. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(164) Stripper for PCB production. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(165) Optical Inspection station foe 
in-process inspection of semi¬ 
conductor chips, dovioes and 
lead frames. 

728.4809 

84.59 


PART-B— Contd. 




ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

aCCN Code 

066) 

Semiconductor lead frame/ 
Header handling equipment/ 
attachments Including those 
for use with bonders. 

r 

728.4809 

84.59 

067) 

Automatic, semi-automatio 
teat equipment for So)ar Cells. 

878.4809 

90.28 

(168) Surge tester for power devices. 

874-8919 

90.28 

(169) 

Optical measuring equipment 
for Inspection of grids, catho¬ 
des, microwave cavities etc. 
for manufacture of electron 
tubes. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(170) 

High vacuum leak detector 
(helium) including portable 
typo for manufacture of elec¬ 
tron tubes. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(171) 

Vertical and horizontal glass 
working lathes for manu¬ 
facture of electron tubas. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(172) 

High speed precision press 
for the manufacture of magne¬ 
tic heads for electronic In¬ 
dustry. 

736.2829 

84.45 

(173) 

Automatic handling and sor¬ 
ting machine for capacitors. 

744.2809 

84.22 

(174) 

Bulk eraser machine for mag¬ 
netic head. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(175) 

Electrostatic epoxy coating 
machine for manufacture of 
DC Micromotors. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(176) 

Laminating press for manu¬ 
facture of multilayer PCB. 

736.2829 

84.45 

(177) 

Hydraulic blanking machines 
for manufacture of DC micro¬ 
motor*. 

736.2309 

84.43 


(178) Cold welding machine for 
welding aluminium foils for 
manufacture of electrolytic 



capacitors. 

737.3219 

83.11 

(179) 

Multi-slide punching and 
forming machine. 

736.2301 

84.49 

(180) 

Vlbto energy mill for manu¬ 
facture of ferrite*. 

728,4809 

84.99 

(181) 

Attrittoi for manufacture of 
ferrite*- 

728.4809 

84.99 

(182) 

Hystcrals loop tracer for 
manufacture of ferthee- 

874.8309 

90.28 

(183) 

Double disc grinding machine 
for manufacture of ferrite*. 

728,4809 

84.59 

(184) 

Cm C automat, bar capacity 
opto 25 mm, for manufac¬ 
ture of connectors, relays or 
switches. 

736.1302 

84.45 

(185) 

Thick film printer foi seml- 
eonduct >r manufacture- 

728,4*09 

81.11 



['RT’rl—»T l] 


1TTT8 *T TT3PTO S KI HI 104 


111 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B—Onfd. 




ITC-Rev. 2 
Cede 

CCCNCode 

(186) 

Automatic photolithography 
Inspection station for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(187) 

Seml-automatlc/automatlc 
work holders/handlers and 
accessories for seml-co n d actor 
manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(188) 

Thermal resistance testers for 
semi-conductor manufacture. 

874.4029 

90.23 

(189) 

Semi oonduotor lead frame/ 
header handling equipment/ 
attachments Including those 
for use In bonders, for semi¬ 
conductor manufacture- 

728.4809 

84.39 

(190) 

Tripple roll mlH for manu¬ 
facture of potentiometers. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(191) 

Board cropping or tagging 
machine for manufacture of 
potentiometers. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(192) 

Wiper wire straightening 
machine for manufacture of 
potentiometers. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(193) 

Wiper forming machine for 
manufacture of potentio¬ 
meters. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(194) 

Infra-red radiant dryers for 
manufacture of potentio¬ 
meters. 

728.4809 

84,59 

(195) 

Sealant dispensing unit for 
manufacture of potentio¬ 
meters. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(196) 

Sand mill for manufacture of 
magnetic tape. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(197) 

Slurry mixer for manufac- 
faoturc of magnetic tape. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(198) 

Slurry agitator for manu¬ 
facture of magnetic tape. 

728.4809 

84.3# 

(199) 

Floppy disc Jacket folding 
machine. 

728.4109 

84.39 

(200) 

Floppy dine punching 

machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(201) 

Ultrasonic sealing system for 
floppy diskettes. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(202) 

Lap cutting or multiflade 
watering machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(203) 

Quartz crystal slicing machine. 

728.4809 

34.59 

(204) 

Bevelling equipment for 
manufacture of piezo electric 
crystals. 

728.4809 

84.5# 

(203) 

Automatic test system fet 
crystal filters. 

874.8309 

91.28 

(206) 

Automatic frequency plating 
system- 

728,4809 

44 «9 



(TC-Rev. 2 
Code 

gCCN Code 

(307) Temperature test system for 
manufacture of piezo electric 
crystals. 

874.402# 

90.23 

(208) Vacuum annealing oven for 
piezo electric oiystal manu¬ 
facture. 

741.3102 

85.11 

(209) Automatic lapping controller. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(210) X-ray goniometer. 

- 

s 

(211) Automatic blank sorter for 
piezo eleotrlo crystal manu¬ 
facture. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(212) Exhaust equipment (pumping 
system) foi electron tube 
manufacture. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(213) Automatic head tinning 
maohine /automatic end tin¬ 
ning machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(214) Decade capacitance standard. 

— 

— 

(215) Automatic capacitance cor¬ 
rection machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(216) Automatic resistor bodies 
sorting machines. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(217) Third harmonic tester. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(218) Automatic/semi-automatic 

carbon track and terminal 
assembly machine. 

728.4809 

84,59 

(219) Stacking or aligning or glueing 
machine for electronic com¬ 
ponent manufacture. 

728,4809 

84.59 

(230) Automatic welding or coating 
or stamping machine for 
cermet variable resistors. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(331) Automatic rider block assem¬ 
bling machine for cermet 
variable resistor. 

728.480# 

84.3# 

(222) Sweep oscillator. 

874.8309 

90.28 

(223) Rotary dip tester of globule 
tester for populated PCB 
testing. 

728.4809 

* 

84.(9 

(224) RF attenuator. 

*74.8309 

9#.28 

(223) Octave filter with or without 
amplifier and or Recorder 
Attachments. 

NSC 

90.10 

(11) Mbc. CG Hems the following i— 



(1) Erogonimtcally designed 

station for assembly of 
magnetic heeds. 

874.8309 

84.59 

(2) Gap Interface and headpio- 
fliing process equipment com¬ 
plete with accessories for 

874 8309 

90.16 

90.22 

90.2* 


magnetic heads. 



112 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART -H—Contd. 



ITC-Rtv, 2 0 CCN Code 
' Cod* 

(3) Playback or erase or record 
and playback test station 
complete with accessories for 
magnetic heads. 

874.8309 

90.10 

(4) Automatic or semi-automatic 
moulding machine with/with¬ 
out pulp beater for manu¬ 
facture of paper cones for 
loud speakers complete with 
accessories. 

874.8309 

84.33 

(3) Laminating press for manu¬ 
facture of multilayer printedf 
circuit boards. 

874.8309 

84.47 

(6) Cleaning equipment with 
vapour degreasing and ultra¬ 
ground cleaning system. 

874.8309 

84.59 

11. Printing Machinery. 

* 


(1) Electronic colour scanners 
with or without chromograpb. 

NA 

NA 

(2) High precision auto focus, 
auto exposure, oomputorised 
Process Cameras and Process 
Enlargers. 

881.1100 

90 07 

(3) Graphic fllm/plate/papcr pro¬ 
cessors. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(4) Step and repeat machines/ 
cameras. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(3) Reflection/transmissloii type 
densitometer*. 

874.4009 

90.23 

(6) Pre-press proofing system 
and flat-bea proof presses 
other than Rotary sheet- 
fed-offset printing machines. 

726.7101 

84.35C 

(7) Mechanical hot metal line 
casting/composing machine 
with built-in or separate key 
boards. 

726.3119 

84.34A 

(8) Book binding machinery for 
Hard Cover & Paper back 
binding including automatic 
folding machines, collating 
machines, adhesive binding 
machines, saddle Stitching 
machines, book Sewing 

Machines, Case making 
machinery, . Embossing 

Machines.^ 

726.8100 

84.32A 

(9) Fully programmed paper cut¬ 
ting machine and three knife 
trimmers. 

723.2001 

84.33A 

(10) Automatic punching machine 
with sheet feeder (output 
3,000 sheets per hour and 
more). 

726.7209 

84.33D 

(11) Ticket and label printing 
machines, other than offset 
with built-in-attachment for 
numbering and perforating. 

726.7109 

84.360 


ITC-Rgt, 2 G CCN Cod « 

Cod* 

(12) Light sources for cameras and 
plate making, with or with¬ 
out built-in vaouum printing 
frames and microprocessor 
based exposure units, such as 
Xenon Metal Halides, Mer¬ 
cury halides, but excluding 


arc lamps. 

778.2209 

85.20 

(13) Four colour and above four 
colour sheet-fed Offset prin¬ 
ting machines. 

726,7109 

84.35C 

(14) Anti set-off devices. 

726.7209 

84 35D 

(13) Registration systems Inclu¬ 
ding pre-press registration 
’ systems for Offset printing 
machine. 

726.7209 

84.33 

(16) Hand fed wax/film coalers. 

881.3900 

90.10 

(17) Web-fed high speed letter 
press rotary and Offset rotary 
printing machines having out¬ 
put of more than 35,000 com¬ 
posite impressions or oopics 
per hour. 



(18) Automatic sheet counting and 
lab-inserting equipment. 

726.7209 

84.33 

(19) Direct platomaking cameras 
and systems for Offset plate 
making. 

726.7209 

84.33 

(20) Electronic Image assembly 
and page make up systems. 

726.7209 

84.33 

(21) Cam and Cam Shaft Measur¬ 
ing Machine for inspection 
Manually operated with digi¬ 
tal read-out/automaticaliy 
operated with computer Con¬ 
trol. 

874.2109 

90.22 

12. (i) Food processing machines, 
the following i 



(1) Fruit and vegetables cutting, 
coring, cubing, slicing, seed¬ 
ing, deartng/removiiig, stem 
removing machines. 

727.2209 

84,30 

(2) Portable package leak tester. 

874.8919 

90.28 

(3) Fill height detector. 

NA 

NA 

(4) Automatic bottle labelling 
machine especially for special 
shape bottle. 

743.2202 

84.19 

(3) Macaroni, noodles, sphagelU, 
vermlclill and other paste pro¬ 
ducts manufacturing machi¬ 
nery. 

727.2203 

84.30 

(II) Meat processing machinery i 



(1) Meat processing machines, 
such as mlnciDg, deboning, 
mixing, cutting, chopping, 
flaking and skinning 



machines (Industrial Types). 

727.2203 

84.30 





113 


|>TFT I—>sr* l] 


<rTOr^TTnmr: sutimwi 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 


ITC-Kev. 2 CCCN Cod* 
Code 


ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 


(2) Meat Tendering equipment. 

727.2203 

84.30 

(3) Power saws for cutting of 
bone In meats. 

727.2203 

84.30 

(4) Hamburgers & meat ball for¬ 
ming machines. 

727.2209 

84.30 

(5) Lines for battering and frying 
of meat items. 

727.2209 

84.30 

(6) Equipment for production of 
Mechanical Deboned Meat 
(M.D.M.). 

727.2209 

84.30 

(7) Meat Separator/deboning 

machine. 

_ 

_ 

_ (8) Automatic meat filling 

machine with automatic 

weighing arrangement. 

727.2209 

84.30 

(9) Equipment units for auto¬ 
matic packaging of meat 
portions in duplex cartons. 

727.2239 

- 84.30 

13. Sheep Shearing machine. 

728.4809 

-94.39 

14. Fire extinguishing water drill. 

749.2009 

84.61 

15. Textile machinery the following : 



(1) Transfer printing machlne. 

724.7419 

84.40P 

(2) Thermo printing machine. 

724.7419 

84.40F 

(3) Micro-Dust Extraction Units - 
Improved Type. 

743.6009 

84,18 

(4) Corduoroy looms and Canvas 
looms of 18 ora. and above. 

724.5101 

84.37 

(5) (a) Air jet and Water Jet 
looms. 

724.51 

84.37 

(6) Other types of sburtlclem 
looms with reed space riot 
lees than 260 oms. 

724.31 

84.37 

(6) Foam finishing tnaohlne. 

724.7406& 
.7407 - 

84.40 

(7) Open Bnd Spinning Machine. 

NSC 

84.37 

(8) Speolal tv pci of spinning* ma¬ 
chinery for ootton/mau-mado 
flbre/worsted sector such as 
Air let spinning, Friction 
spinning. Wrap spinning, and 
twistless spinning. 

724 4329 

84,36 

(9) Micro-wav* dyolng/ftuWr¬ 

ing machlni. 

724.7404A 
.7407 

M.40 

(10) Mulfished/multipbase weaving 
machine. 

724.5129 

84.37 

(11) Fully automatic bale hand- 
ling/plucklng/peeling/bending 
grab equipments with micro¬ 
processors. 

728.4809 

84,59 


(12) Fancy twisters for manu- NSC 

facture of loop yarn using 
filament yam for purposed 
of core/binding. 


16. Machinery for Jnte Industry i 

(1) Goods Spreader. ' 

(2) Jute Hard Waste Card. 

(3) Jute Short Fibre Feeder. 

(4) Hopper Feeder. 

(5) Full Circular Finisher Card 
(with five and a half pair 
rollers and above). 

(6) High Speed Modern Jute 1 st 
Drg. frame. 

(7) High Speed Modern Jute 2nd 
Drg. frame. 

(8) High speed Modern Jute 3rd 
Drg. frame. 

(9) Ring Spinning Frame for 
jute. 

(10) Wrap yam Spinning frame 
for jute. 

(11) Ring Twisting frame for 
jute. 


(12) Modem High Speed Auto¬ 
matic Cop Winding machine. 


(13) Modem High Speed Auto¬ 
matic Roll/Cone Winder for 
jute. 


NSC 


(14) Doubling Machine for jute. 


(15) Jute precision Winders. 

(16) Modem Automatic High 
Speed Jute Loom (Shuttle- 
less or circular). 

(17) High Speed Sack Cutting 
machine. 


(18) High Speed Industrial Sew¬ 
ing machine for jute. 

(19) Modem Cropping Machine. 

(20) Wide Calender machine for 
jute. 


(21) Baling press (hydraulic). 

(22) Modem LimiDating/Coating 
Machine. 

(23) Tufting Machine for jute 
carpets. 

U4) Modem Roll-up inachlm. 


CCCN 

Code 

84.37 


84.36 



114 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 


rrc-Ri rv. 2 cccn 

Code Code 


ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 


17. Machlaeryfor S •» food Industry : 


(W) Egg and poultry processing i 


(i) Processing units : 


(1) Scaler. 

727.2209 

(2) Skinning machine. 

727.2209 

(3) Meat separator/deboning 

machine. 

727.2209 

(4) Smoking kilns. 

727.2209 

(3) Inline processing equipments. 

727.2209 

(6) Plate Freezer* 

727.2209 

(7) Spitting Machines 

727.2209 

(8) Filtering Machines. 

727.2209 

(9) Clam boiling. 

727.2209 


84.30 

84.30 

84.30 

84.30 

84.30 

84.15 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 


a; 


(3) 


Poultry processing plant. 

Egg grading and packing 
material equipment. 

Egg washing, breaking, liquid 
egg pasturisation, homogeni¬ 
sing. packing and freezing 
equipment. 


V728.4809 


18. Packaging Machinery t 


Part-I 


(1) Coated/Laminated/Lined 
Carton—forming, Filling, 

Sealing/Codina / Marking 
Machinery—Complete and 

fully automatic with or with¬ 
out gas Flushing or Post 
Sterilising—with maximum 

operating speeds In excess of 
90 packs/mlnute. 


743.2209 


(10) Do-shelling Machines. 727.2209 NSC 

(11) Weighing and sealing Maohines. 727.2209 NSC 

(II) Fish Processing I 


(2) Retoratable Pouch/Contalnor 
System—Including Pre- 

Sterillslng/PasteurTsing, Dry¬ 
ing and Packaging—Includ¬ 
ing Form, Fill, Seal, Code/ 

Mark and Post Sterilising 

and/or cartoning. 743.2209 


(1) Fish skinning, gutting and 

portioning machines. 727.2209 84.30 

(2) Equipment units for automa¬ 
tic packaging of Fish portions 

in duplex oarton*. 745.2209 84.19 


(3) Automatic Tray Forming, 

Filling, Ladding/overwrapp- 
ping, Coding/Marking 

Machine fusing paper boards/ 1 
plastics Coated or laminated. 743.2209 


(3) Fishing Swivels. 

(Ul) Machinery and equipment for 
Freezing, cold storage and Ice 
plant* t 

(1) Prawn grading machine. 


(tv) Machinery and equipment for 
canning plant i 

(1) Cookod prawn grading 
machine. 

(2) Automatic meat filling ma¬ 
chine with automatic weigh¬ 
ing arrangement. 

(3) OD filling machine. 

(4) Sauce filling machine. 

(?) Machinery and equipment for 
Osh meal plant: 


— 

— 

(4) Machine for Lid Sealing, 
and/or Coding and Marking 
of Trays/Cups made from 
paper board/plastlcs/combl- 
natlons. 

727.2209 

84.30 

(5) Stand up Pouch system— 
Comprising Form, Fill and 
Seal and/or Coding and 
Marking and/or Presterilis- 
ing/Post-Sterilising. 

727.2209 

84.30 

(6) Form, Fill and Seal Machines 
for Flexible Packaging 
Materials with either vacuu- 
mising or Oas Flushing or 
both. 

743.2209 

743.2209 

84.19 

84.19 

(7) Gas Flushing Machine for 
Flexible Packages with or 
without form, Fill, Seal, Code 
or Marking facility. 

743.2209 

84.19 

(8) Gas and Vacuum Packaging 


System for Flexible Packag¬ 
ing not covered at S. No. 6 
above. 


743.2209 


743.2209 


743.2209 


743.2209 


745.2209 


Continuous fish meal plant 
with oil recovery unit com¬ 
plete wHh fish chopper, double 
screw press, pulveriser cyclon, 
product collector, bagging 
machine, oil recovery unit 
sharpless centrifuge, oil puri¬ 
fying unit and oil packing 
inlt, 727.2209 


84.30 


(9) Automatic Sabelling maohines 

for I 743.2209 

(a) Pressure Sensitive Label* 

(b) For other labels of 
maximum operating 
capacity over 125/Laboi*/ 

Minute. 


CCCN Code 

84.39 


84.19 

84.2d 

84.19 

84.19 


84.19 

84.19 

84.19 

84.19 



[hftI—# r 1 ] 




115 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 



ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(10) Coding/MRrking including 
Ink-jet Printing Machine 
(other than over printing 
machines for cartons/Labels). 

745.12209 

84.20 

(11) Check Weighing—Volumetric/ 
Gravimetric Filters. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(12) Aseptic Packaging and/or 
processing Machinery with or 
without Presterilising/Pastu- 
rising, Comprising, Forming, 
Filling, Sealing Coding/ 

Marking—fully automatic. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(13) Filling and Sealing Machines 
for Laminated Collapsible 
Tubes. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(14) Filling and/or Lid Sealing 
Machines for Thermoformed 
Containers. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(15) Filling and Sealing Systems 
for Bag-ln-Box with or with¬ 
out vacuumising/Gas Flush¬ 
ing. 

745-2209 

84.20 

(16) Flat Carton System for Bag¬ 
ged Items and Solid Product* 
m Pouches. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(17) Caso Packing Machine for 
Wrap Around Caso Packaging 
Machine. 

745.2209 

84.20 

(18) High Speed Automatic 

Wrappers—other than for 
safety Razor Blades, 

Cigarettes and Twist Wrap¬ 
pers for confectionery—of 
of maximum operating speeds 
above 120/minute. 

745.2209 

84.19 

(19) On lino Inspection System 

for Filled Packages—Other 
than Wholly electronic. 

745.2209 

84.59 

Package Manufacturing of 
Conversion Machinery 

728.1 


Part-H 



(1) Stretch Blow Moulding 

Machine. 

728.1 

84.47 

(2) Multilayer Coater/Extruder/ 
Cast Film Line including 
auxiliary! Units namely— 

Slitting, Winding, Treating. 

728.1 

\ 

84.47 

(3) Printing Machine Flexograph 
(4 Colours and above) for 
flexible packaging material. 

728.1 

84.85 

(4) Stand up Pouch Making 
Machine. 

728.1 

NSC 

(5) Plastic and Laminate Collap¬ 
sible Tube Manufacturing 

Plant. 

728.1 

34.59 

(6) Bag-ln-Box Manufacturing 
Machine. 

728.1 

84.33 


19, Transportation of frozen foods i 

ITC-Rev, 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(1) Dry ice (solidified Cot) 
presses. 

728.4809 

84. 99 

1 

(2) Dry ice pelletklere. 

728.4809 

84.59 

20. Dairy Industry Equipment 1 



(1) Homogenlsets 

721.3800 

84.26 

(2) Butter packing and wrapping 
machines. 

745.2209 

84.19 

(3) Cheese packing and wrapping 
machines. 

745.2209 

84.19 

(4) Cappers. 

745.2209 

84.19 

(5) Pneumatic/elcctrlc hammers 
for powder cones. 

NA 

NA 

21. Machinery for Chemical Industry t 


(1) Exploslmeters of Combustible 
gaslndloator—individual and/ 
or continuous on lino type. 

874.4019 

90,25 

(2) Volumetric Displacement Me¬ 
ters. 

874.3009 

90,24 

(3) Welghlng-cum-flUing balance 
for refrigemont gases. 

745.2202 

84.19 

(4) Explosion-proof meters and 
vibrators of class Ex d3 Gn 5 
or their equivalent. 

874.4019 

90,25 

(5) Special Pneumatio Calibrators 

873.1004 

90.26 

(6) Filters i Continuous Rotary 
Pressure Filter for tnflamma- 
able and /or explosive ma¬ 
terials. 

743.6009 

84.18 

(7) Vaporiser for Sulphur. 

741.6019 

84.17 

(8) Karbate pumps. 

NA 

NA 

(9) Centrifugal Gas Compressors 

743.1001 

84.11 

(10) High pressure gas comp- 
ressors/root type blowers suit¬ 
able for combustible gases like 
ethylene, butylene, hydrogen 
etc. for pressure above 10 aim. 

743.1001 

84.11 

(11) Breathing Apparatus back 
paokstyle. 

872.0300 

pa,ii 

(12) Multi-gas detector. 

874.3009 

90.24 





116 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd, 


ITC-Key. 2 CCCN Code 
Cod* 


ITC-JUv. 2 CCCN Cod* 
Cod* 


22 . 

Machinery for woollen tndcwtry, the following 

l— 

0 ) 

Wool Opener. 

724.4203 

84.3(5 

(2) 

Automatic Hopper Feeder) 
Blending Hopper feeder with 
automatic quantity control 
(either with automatic weight 
or volume conlrol/cothbined 
automatic weight and volume 
control for woollen worsted 
card). 

724.4205 

' 84.36 

(3) 

Rectilinear Combs. 

724.4205 

84.36 

(4) 

Vigorous Top/Sllvet Printing 
Machines. 

724.7419 

84.40 

(5) 

Tow to Fibre/Top Conver¬ 
ting Machine, 

724.4203 

84:36 

(6) 

Top/Bump Pres*. 

724.4203 

84.36 

(7) 

Draw Frame/Roving Frame/ 
Automatic Rubbing frame 
/Bobblners/Finishers. 

724.4324 

84.36 

(8) 

Self-Twist spinning Machines/ 
Slrospiunlng (2ply spinning) 
macmnes/coro spinning ma¬ 
chine*. 

724.4324 

84.36 

(9) 

Fancy Yarn Twisting and 
Patterning Machine. 

724.4324 

84.36 

(10) 

Jumbo Hank Reeling machine 
(approx. 4 Kg. Hanks). 

724.4324 

84.36 

(11) 

Yarn Brushing Machine 

724.4324 

84.36 

(12) 

High speed intersecting Rotary/ 
chain /Pin drawing sets/ 

G1U boxes. 

124.4324 

84.36 

(13) 

Semi-Automatic/Automatic 
Balling Machine, Labelling 
and Packaging Machine for 
Hand knltting/Crochet Yarn 

724.4324 

84.36 

(14) 

• 

Continuous Yarn Bulking 
Relaxing Setting & Wind¬ 
ing Machine. 

•<r 

724.4324 

84,36 

(13) 

Grinding Machine for Re poo 
Self-Twist Rollers. 

724.4324 

84.36 

(16) 

Fibre Opening and Blending 
Machine. 

T24.4203 

84.34 

(17) 

Raising/Brushing Machine. 

724.T401 

84.40 

(18) 

Automatic Looms for weav¬ 
ing plain plush fabric* and 
Jacquard plush fabric*. 

724.3122 

84.37 

(19) 

Combined Milling and Scour¬ 
ing Machine. 

724,4203 

84.36 

(20) 

Blanket Fringing Machine. 

724.7419 

84,40 

(21) 

Carding sets. 

724.4205 

84.36 


(22) Automatic doffing devices/ 


equipment for worsted ring 
frames. 


__ 

(23) Blender defelter/Blendcr de- 
felter red breaker. 

_ 

_ 

(24) Automatic hand knotters/ 
hand splicers. 

-- 

_ 

(23) Multilayer vertical stenter. 

NSC 

84.39 

(26) Hydraulic flat Paper Press for 
finishing of worsted fabrics 
(both continuous and non- 
continuous). 

J4SC 

84.59 

(27) Tenter (Multilayer vertical 
Stontor) with or without Heat 
Setting Mechanism. 

NSC 

84.59 

(28) Hydraulic Flat Paper Press/ 
continuous Hydraulic Flat 
Paper Press. 

NSC 

84.39 

(29) Conversion equipment for 
converting shuttle looms Into 
shuttleless type. 

NSC 

84.59 

(30) Multi-noodle sewing Machines. 

724.3103 

84.39 

(31) Overlasting stitch sewing 

machlno lor sewing salvedges 
of fabric*. 

724.3103 

84.39 


'23. Machinery for the manufacture of Industrial Jewell Including 
watch Jeweli the following i— 


0) 

Automatic slicing/cutting off 
machine. 

736.1604 

84.43 

(2) 

Enlarging machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(3) 

Automatic feeding, recessing 
and discharging machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(4) 

Brush polishing machine. 

743.2709 

84.21 

(3) 

Counting machine. 

873.2009 

90.27 

(6) 

Automatic centreless grinding 

machine 

736.1906 

84.43 

(7) 

Special purpose automatic/ 
semi automatic cutting machi- 
ne. 

• 

736.1604 

84.43 

(8) 

Special purpose gluding auto¬ 
matic hydraulic unit. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(9) 

Stone grinding machine. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(10) 

Centrelet* grinding machine. 

736.1100 

84 M 

(H) 

Thlckneat grading tad mt»- 
■ tiring machine. 

*74,2109 

90. l« 

(12) 

Lneer drilling machine. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(13) 

Threading machine. 

736.1809 

84.43 

(14) 

Broach machining machine. 

736.1929 

84.45 

(15) 

Pre-enlargtag machine. 

728,4809 

84.59 



[»mt I—** i] 


117 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Conld. 




ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(16) 

Pine enlarging machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

07) 

Rough/flne turning machine. 

736.1319 

84.43 

(18) 

Chamfering machine. 

736.1939 

84.43. 

24. Machinery required for manufacture of spectacle frames* 
the following i— 

(1) 

Pneumatic Bimanual, milling 
machines for inside, outside 
and sculpturing spectacle 
fronts and sides. 

728.1209 

84.47 

(2) 

Wire shooting machine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

O) 

Angle milling machine. 

728.1209 

84.47 

(4) 

Insertion of hinges. 

728.4809 

84.59 

<S) 

Hot mark Ing/stamptng ma¬ 
chine. 

728.4809 

84.59 

«S) 

Bending roaohine. 

728.1209 

84.47 

(7) 

Acetone steam polishing. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(8) 

Soldering machine for metal 
frame. 

737.3221 

83.11 

(9) 

Metal ring forming/shaping 
machine. 

736.2201 

84.43 

(10) 

Hinges manufacturing plant. 

728.4809 

84.39 

at) 

Radial mating machine to 
simultaneously .shape and be- 
veles CR 39 Sc all other orga¬ 
nic lenses with Automatic 
feeding and oontrol system or 
manual system. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(12) 

Automatic and/or soml-auto-' 
matlo machines for manu¬ 
facture of Sunglass/Safoty 
glass/Speotaclo lenses. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(13) 

Manual or automatic glass 
lenses outtlg machine. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(14) 

Automatic & Manual cutting 
machine for sunglass lenses 
In strip form. 

728.1100 

84.46 

(13) 

Semi-automatic shaping and 
bevelling machine for Bat 
organic lenses with special 
shapes like masks. 

728,1100 

84.46 

IS. Machinery for Electric lamp meeofnctwe. the fallowing i— 

(1) 

Automatic lamp caps vitri¬ 
fying glass Insulation filling 
machine. 

728.4809 

84.39 

(2) 

Automatic lamp cap pin 
fixing and revetting machines. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(3) 

Continuous coil winding ma¬ 
chines. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(4) 

Gap colling machines for 
coiled coil filaments. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(5) 

Retractable mandrel coll win¬ 
ding machines. 

728.4809 

84.5 

(6) 

Electronically controlled auto¬ 
matic coil cutting machines. 

728.4809 

84.59 


fTC-Rev. 2 CCCNCodt 



Cod* 


(7) Continuous filament anneal¬ 
ing furnace. 728.4809 

84.59 

(8) Molybdenum boat filament 

coil annealing furnace- 728.4809 

84.59 

(9) Automatic Coil Winding 
Machine. 

NSC 

84.59 

26. Equipment for 0(1 Field Services 
Sector. 



(1) Off-shore skid mounted/port¬ 
able electrologging unit for 
open hole and<xased bole 
operations. 

NSC 

NSC 

(2) Well head Control equip¬ 
ment. 

NSC 

85.19/ 

90.28 

(3) Auxiliary winch with mono¬ 
cable. 

NSC 

84.22 

(4) Dip meter. 

NSC 

90.16/9028 

(5) High resolution digital and 
directional equipment. 

NSC 

90.14 

(6) Bore holo geometrary equip¬ 
ment. 

NSC 

90.14 

(7) Thermal decay equipment. 

NSC 

90.14 

(8) Gamma ray positioning 

equipment. 

. NSC 

90.20/90.28 

(9) Sonic BBC/Cemont bond 
equipment. _ 

NSC 

90.28 

(10) Variable density equipment. 1 


90.25 

(11) Formation Toaer. 


90.16 

(12) Side Wall Coring gum. 

874.3001 NSC 

(13) Free Point Indicator. 

- to .3009 90.16 

(14) Bridge Plug Setting Equipment. 


90.16/28 

(15) Slim hole tools. 


82.04 

(16) Perforation guns with mag¬ 
netic positions. 


NSC 


(17) Drill Stem Testing Unit 
consisting of following tools 
and accessories t— 


723.4303 90.28/90.16 


(a) Combination APRrPCT- 
NRT Test Valve. 

(b) Pressure recorder. 

fc) Bar drop sobs. 

fd) Revetting sob Fla type, 
(s) Reversing sob pomp out 

type 


(f) TR Jar. 

(g) Slip Joint Safety valve 
(different sizes). 




118 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


(h) Slip Joints 
sizes). 


(different 


(g) Cementing 
manifold. 


squoozo 


(h) Acidising Head with 
lifting head. 

(1) Acid Transfer Pump 
with container. 

0 Martin Decker Pressure 
Recorder. 

(k) Liquid additive System 

0) Radioactive Density 
Meter. 

(19) H2S Control Services :— 

(l) Breathing Apparatus. 

(li) Capsules to Measure 
H2S. 


APPENDIX 1 PART-B— Contd. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCNCod* 
Code 


(1) Poshest Casing Packer 
(different sizes). 

(j) Heavy Anchor. 

(k) Tubing Tall Pipe. 

0) PCT Sample Chamber. 

(m) Sample Analysis Kit, 

(n) PCT-Test Kit. 

(o) Nltrogon Transfer Pumps 
(18) (0 Cementing Unit 

(11) Accessories such as :— 

(a) Recirculating mixer. 

(b) Sub sea cementing head 

(o) Cementing head with 
quick coupler. 

(d) Adaptor for cementing 
head. 

(e) J-Postrleve Packers. 

(f) Retrievable bridge plug 
with running tools. 


723.4303 


90.28 

90.16 


90.18 


(20; Add Stimulation Services 874.3 84 J 9 


Stimulation Vessel equipped 
with t— 

(a) High Capacity Burners, 
Air Compressor, Auxi¬ 
liary Water and Pro¬ 
duct Pump. 

(b) Blending system, con¬ 
trol room facility for 
remote operation etc 


NOTE 


ITC-Rev. 2 
Code 


(27) Machinery for writing 

Instruments (Foutaln pens, 

Bat) point pens, sketch pens 

and the like), 

(1) Auto Assembly machlnos 
for writing instruments. 

(2) Ball pen refill tips 
manufacturing machine. 

(3) Ball point refll assembly 
machines. 

(4) Writing test machine. 

(5) Hot stamping machine. 

(6) Machinery for manu¬ 
facturing metal caps/ 
barrels/clips nibs for 
writing instruments. 

(7) Metal finishing Machines 
for writing instruments. 

(8) Machines for shaping 
metal refllls/metal caps 
and barrels. 

(9) Machinery for manu¬ 
facture of synthotlo fibre 
tips. 

(10) Machinery for manu¬ 
facture of synthetic 
filters for sketch pons. 

28. Miscellaneous Items 


728.1 


2 ThM. an< ^ ^CCN Code numbers have been assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

' T”“ T 111 ** ^Produced ° n the Bills of Entry filed by the Importer a nd on licences whenever Issued. 
4 * Th^Tn’^TJ’ ^ “ 0t J* bindlQ8 ° n CUSt0ms auth °rWes for classification for tariff purposes. 

dlx and noUccordln “ f ^^' Expor ^ Po,ic y wl *l. however, continue to be as per description of the 

. * “fog to the Code numbers assigned. 

3. NSC stands for Not separately classified. 


CCCN 

Code 


84.59 


(1) Xenon and metal Halide 
Lamps and equipment. 

778.2209 

83.20 

(2) Silver Recovery Units. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(3) Laser equipment including 
laser measuring system. 

737.3219 

85.U 

(4) Power driven, cloth cutting 
machine for automobile in¬ 
dustry. * 

724.7403 

84.40 

(5) Fluorlraeter. 

874.3009 

90.24 

(6) U. V. Spectrophotometer 
(Double Beam) 

874.4004 

90.25 

(7) High Performance liquid 
chro-matograph. 

874,4009 

90.23 

(8) Liquid nitrogen plants— 
capacity upto 10 litres per 
hour. 

728.4809 

84.59 

(9) Automatic chip/flake Ice mak¬ 
ing machine with a capacity 
upto 200 kgs pei day for 
marine industry. 

741.4101 

84.15 

(10) Bichromatio colour sorting 
machine. 

874.4 

90.25 

(11) Air Plasma Cutting machine. 

NSC 

84.59 


Items given In this Appen- 



t'TW I—1] 


*ttot an wyt ■ swtiitw 


119 


APPENDIX 2 

RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS, CONSUMABLES, TOOLS AND SPARES 

PART-A 

List of Banned Items 



ITC Rev, 2 

CCCN 


ITC R.2 

CCCN 


Code 

Code 


Code 

Code 

1. Tallow, Fat and/or Oils 



(id) Poultry fats, rendered or 



rendered, unrendered or 



solvent extracted 

091.3000 

13.01 

otherwise of any animal 
origin Including the follow¬ 



- 



ing 



{tv) Fats and oils of fish/marino 





origin whether or not refined 

411.1 

15.04A 

(/) Lard atearine, oleo stearine. 




tallow stearine, lard oil, 
oleo oil and tallow oil not 
emulsified or mixed or pre¬ 
pared In any way 

411.3300 

13.03 

(v) Margarine, Imitation lard 
and other prepared edible 
fats of animal origin 

091.4 

15.13A 

{It) Neat’s foot oil and fats 






from bone or waste 

411.39 

13.06 

2. Animal rennet 

NSC 

29.40 

t 


PART- 

-B 





List of Restricted Items. 




ITC Rev. 2 

CCCN 


ITC Rev. 2 

CCCN 

Chemicals A Allied Items 

Code 

Code 

(15) Caffeine and its salts 

Code 

Code 



541.4003 

29.42 

(1) A.B.S. Moulding Powder 

NSC 

39.01 to 

(16) Cashew Kernels 

057.7302 

08.01D 



39.06 





(17) Cellulosic tops/spun yarn/ 



(2) Acetanilide 

514.7001 

29.23 

wasto. 

651.8 

51.03/ 

(3) Acetazolamide 

NSC 

29.36 

' 


56.03/ 

56.05 

(4) Ally! Isothiocyanate 

513.4 

29.31 

(18) Cocoa—(both beans and 



(5) Amidopyrine 

515.69 

29.35 

powder)/cocoa-extender/ 
cocoa cake/cocoa paste 

072/081.92 

18.01/ 

(6) Analgin 

513.6 

29.33 



18.02/ 

18.03 

(7) Aniline/Anlline oil and salts 
thereof 

514.5001 

29.22 

(19) Coir (fibre/yam/fabrics) 

265.91/ 

651.99/ 

57.04/ 

57.07/ 

(8) Benzyl acetate 

513.7203 

29.14B 


654.98 

57.11 

(9) Benzyl chloride 

511.3904 

29.02D 

(20) Condensed milk 

022.4904 

04.02 




(21) Copper Oxychloride 

523.1205 

28.30 

(10) Benzyl benzoate 

513.7902 

29.14D 

(22) Cotton Seeds. 

222.3000 

12.01 

(11) Benzo-trichloride 

(12) Blended fabrics/Yam 

511.3903 

NSC 

29.02D 

(23) Cresylic acid and mixed 

423.3000 

15.07 

NSC 

cresote (both medical and 
technical grades) and cresote 
ortho/meta/para with purity 



(13) Brewery hops including hop 


054.8400/ 

extracts 

12.06/ 

less than 97% including 



(14) Bronze Powder, granules and 

292.91 

682.2400 

13.03 

taracids and cresote oils 
having a boiling range below 
220’C. 

512.36121 

29 06/ 

Flakes 

74,06 

335,2509J 

27.07 




120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 2 PART-B— Coma. 


TTC R.2 CCCN 



Code 

Code 

(24) Cyano-base and Etbo Hepta- 
zlne citrate 

NSC 

NSC 

(25) Cyclamic acid and its salts 

NSC 

29.30 

(26) Diazepam 

NSC 

29.35 

(27) Dimethyl sulphate 

516.3902 

29.17 

(28) 2 : 4 Dlnitorchloro benzene 

511.4004 

29.03 

(29) DNPT (Dlnltroso penta- 
methylene tetramlno) 

NSC 

29.35 

(30) Bthanolamlno (mono, dl and 
trl) 

514.6 

29.23 * 

(31) Fabrics, made from man¬ 
made flbres/yams (exclud¬ 
ing uninked nylon ribbon 
tape from 1/2' to 18-i* both 
the ends electrically welded 
required for the manufacture 
of typo-writer/computer rib¬ 
bons). 

653 

51.04/ 

56.07 

(32) Flavouring essences—all 

typos (including those for 
liquors). 

551.4 

33.04 

(33) Flint buttons (RI-1.625, Rl- 
1.654 and RI-1.700). 



(34) Folio add. 

541.1002 

29.38 

(35) Formic Add. 

513.7911 

29.14D 

(36) Fused bifocal blanks 
* 

664.2 

70,18 

(37) Goladne (all Grades) 

592.2302 

35.03 

(38) Gentamydn Sulphate In¬ 
cluding gentomydno CCA 

NSC 

29.ft4 

(39) Glycerophosphorio adds and 
its salts 

516.3102 

29.19 

(40) Gold In any form 

971 

71.07/ 

08 

(41) Gold chloride 

523.32 

28.49 

(42) Grand parent stock (poultry) 

(43) Groundnut seeds 

011.4 

01.03 

(44) Hexaohlorophene 

512.37 

29.07 

(43) Hexnmine 

314.8201 

29.26 

(40) Insecticides, Pesticides and 
Weedlcldes, the following i— 

591 

*• 

(1) Aluminium phosphide 



(2) Ammonium sulphamate 

562.1300 

NSC 

(3) Azinophos ethyl 

NSU 

NSC 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 



Code 

Code 

(4) Azinophos methyl 

NSC 

NSC 

(5) Benzene Hexachloride 

511.3902 

29.02 

(6) Binepacryl 

NSC 

NSC 

(7) Calcium Arsenate 

523.29 

28.41 

(8) Carbophenothlon 
(Trithion). 

NSC 

NSC 

(9) Chinomethionate 
(Morestan). 

NSC 

NSC 

(10) DBCP 

NSC 

NSC 

(11) Dlcrotophos 

NSC 

NSC 

(12) DioldrJn 

NSC 

NSC 

(13) Disulfotan 

NSC 

NSC 

(14) E.P.N, 

NSC 

NSC 

(15) Endosulfan 

NSC 

NSC 

(16) Endrin (Technical). . 

591.1012 

NSC 

(17) Ethyl parathlon. 

591.1017 

38.11 

(18) Fentin acetate 

NSC 

NSC 

(19) Fentlnhydroxlde 

NSC 

NSC 

(20) Lead arsenate. 

523.29 

28,41 

(21) Leptophos (Phosvel)^ 

NSC 

NSC 

(22) Malathlon. 

NSC 

29.31 

(23) Mevlnphos (Phosdrin). 

NSC 

NSC 

(24) Mephosfolan. 

NSC 

NSC 

(25) Nitrofen. 

NSC 

NSC 

(26) Toxaphene. 

NSC 

NSC 

(27) Vamldothlon. 

NSC 

NSC 

(28) 2, 4, 5—T . 

591.3003 

NSC 

(29) Synthetic Pyrathrolds j— 

» 


(/) Decamethrin. 

NSC 

NSC 

(it) Permethrin. 

NSC 

NSC 

(Hi) Cyperraethiin. 

NSC 

NSC 

(tv) Feuvalrate. 

NSC 

NSC 

(30) Weedlddea 

(/) Isoproturon. 

NSC 

NSC 

(if) Mctha benzthfazuron NSC 

NSC 

(///) Metoxoron 

NSC 

NSC 


(31) Any pesticide Including 
Insecticide*, weedlddes, 
fungiddes, acarlctde, 
herblddo, rodentldde 
and mltldde. which hai 
not been registered or 
which I# prohibited for 
Import under the Ihmo- 
tfc.fde* Act, 1969. 

(32) All pestteldes formulations 
other those under entry 
No. 219(21) In App. 3. 
Part A. 




*tt”t xnwt -irmsnm 


[wft I—«1 1] 


121 


Al'PBNDjX *' PAR r B—Contd. 



rra r«v, 2 

CCCS 


ITC R.2 

CCCN 


Code 

Cnrfn 


Code 

Co] 

'i?i Iiojiv-’oiim- Jtlj bvdm'ide 

5 tl .79)7 

N.33 

(74) Para toluene sulphonic add. 

511.4 

29.03 

(•ill) Liquid gold. 

971 

n 07, 

32.08/ 

37 13 

( 75) Phcnol/uica/mclamlne for¬ 
maldehyde moulding powder/ 
tubes/shccts/rods (all types 

512.3402/58 

39 01 to 

except electrical grade 
moulding powder). 

■ I 1 ') Liver extract, injectable ntid 




19.06/ 





29.06 

oral grades. 

541 6207/ 

6297 

39 <11 

(76) Perfumery compounds/ 


33.01 



synthetic essential oils 

NSC 

(50) Marblc/Granlte/onyx. 

273 1202 

25 15 

(77) Phenacetln 

514.7013 

29.25 

(51) Meta-di-nitrn-benzene. 

511 400' 

7° 01 

(78) Phenyl methyl Pyi azol'W 

513.6924 

29.35 

(571 Mcthnpyrilcoo end it« salt. 

N«f 

79 35 

(79) PractoloJ. 

NSC 

NSC 

(5tj Methaqualonc base and 

NSC 


(SO) Propranolol hydrochloride. 

NSC 

NSC 

mothaqualone hydrochloride 

.-.o li 

NSC 

29.06 


(81) Resorcinol 

(5a) 2-Methyl-imidazole. 

NSC 

79.33 






(82) Riboflavlne-J-Phosphate 



(5?) 2-Methyl -4/5 nitro imidazole 

NSC 

?9.3X 

sodium. 

541.1006 

2,9,38 

(56)) Metronidazole. 

NSC 

29.35 

(83) Saccharine/Sodium 

Saccharine. 

514.82 

29.26 

(57) Mixtures of odoriferous sub¬ 
stances/mixtures of rosinolds. 

551.4 

33.04 

(84) Self-adbesivo tapes all type*. 

541.9102 

NSC 

(58) Mono chloro benzene. 

511.3906 


(85) Sodium benzoate. 

513.7921 

29.14 

29,02 


(59) Morpholino propionitnle 

(60) Niacin/Nicotinic acid/ 

NSC 

29.75 

(86) Sodium cyanide 

(87) Sulphacetamide and sulpha- 
cetamido sodium. 

511.71 

39 36 

Niaclua mlde/Nicotinamldc/ 





3-Pyridlne-cai boxylic acid 

541.1 

29 38 

(88) Sulphadlmidine (Sulpbame- 


29.36 

amide. 

tbiazlne). 

315.71 

(61) Nialamide. 

NSC 

29 33 

(89) Sulphaguanidine. 

515.71 

29.36 

(62) Nitro-benzcue. 

511 4013 

29.03 

(90) Sulphamethoxazole. 

NSC 

29.36 

(63) Organic surface active agents, 
namely : Sulphonated 


» 

(91) Sulphanilamlde. 

515.71 

29.36 

Dodccyl Benzene/Alkyl 

Benzene (acid slurry). 

554 2 

34,07 

(92) Sun flower seeds. 

223.8008 

424 9003 

12.01 
15 07 

(64) Orlhonitrochloro benzene. 

311.4015 

7.9 03 

(93) Synthetic tops/spun yarn/ 





waste, excluding nylon 


NSC 

(65) Ortho nitro toluene. 

511.4 

29.03 

wasle. 

NSC 




(94) TMA (Tri-methoxy benzyl 


29.22 

(66) Oxytetracycline. 

541 3300 

29 44 

morpholine acrylonitrile). 

514,3 

f 

(67) Paper for security printing- 



(95) Tetracycline base/Hcl. 

— 

- 

currency paper, stamp paper 
and other special types. 

641 

48.01 

(9o) Tbiothlamlne 

NSC 

NSC 

(68) Para amino phenol. 



(97) Tolbutamide. 

NSC 

29.36 

514.6018 

29.23 



(69) Paracetamol. 

NSC 

29.25 

(98) Trimethoprim. 

(99) Trimmings and embellish¬ 

NSC 

NSC 

(70) Para-acetyl sulphaguanidine. 



ments for garments, made- 



NSC 

29.36 

up, knitwear, plastlc/leatber 
goods etc. 

NSC 

NSC 


(71) Para nitrochloto benerene 

511 4016 

29,03 

(100) Typewriter ribbons. 

NSC 

98.08 

1 12) Para nitro toluene. 

Sit 4023 

79.03 

(101) Vitamin B—1 (Thiamine 
ITCL/Tblamirw mononitrate) 

— 

— 

(73) Para sulphonyl chloride. 

NSC 

?«. M 

(103) Vitamin B-2 

- 

— 


58 GI/85—9. 



122 


[Part I—Sbc. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 2 PART#B— Concld. 


fTC Rev. 2 CCCN 


Code Code 

(103) Vinyl Acetate. 268.6100 53,04 

(104) Vinyl Acetate Mouomu 3 1 or 53 12 

(105) Wines, tonic and medicated. 112.1 22.05/ 

06/07/10/ 

30.03 

(106) Woollen l'ubrfcs/wool .tops/ 
woollen yarn/woul waste/ 

wool, knitting. • 651.2100 53.05 


engineering items 

(107) (a) Ball Bearings including 
components thereof 
having SKF Nos. or 
equivalent thereof 6200 
to 6213. 6302 to 6310, 

6004, 6005, 98305 

(1838001), 1209 and 

1509 as well as their 
derivatives such as 
having metallic shields, 

grooves, eto. 749.1 84.62 

(6) Taper Roller Bearings 
of following SKF Nos. 

or equivalent thereof t -do- -do- 

30204, 30205, 30207, 

30209, 30214, 32211, 

32213, 32216. 32307. 

30302, 30305, 30312. 

CK-LM-48548, CK-418, 

CK-539, KLM-48510 

K-414, K-532X. 

CK-72212, CK-566, 

CK-580, K-72487, K-563 
K-572. 3984/3920 (PAB 
32913/32912), 11590/ 

11520, LM-501349/LM 
501310. 25577/25523. 

02872/02820. 

(c) Super precision bear¬ 
ings viz. P—6 to P—2 
or ABEC—5 to 

ABEC—9 for machine 
tool industry are ex¬ 
cluded. • 749.1 84.62 

1108) Electric portable generators 
upto 3,5 KVA (Electric 
portable generators above 
3.5 KVA will be subject to 

normal CG procedure). 716.2 85.01 

(109) fasteners—Snap and zip 
(including in coil form), and 

components thereof. 899.8401 98.02/ 

01 

(110) Iron scrap Including Pig 
Iron chips. 

(111) Measuring rules and tapes— 
metallic, non-metallic and 
steel Including etched/ 
printed loose tapes at ran- 


dom lengths. 

874.2104 

90.16 

(112) Parts/Coraponents/Sub- 



assembly/asscmbly of fire 
arms ana ammunition 

984.6 

93,04/ 

(113) Populated/loaded/stufled 
printed dreuit boards. 


06 

NSC 

NSC 


ITC A. 1 CCCX 
Code Code 

(114) Tyro tube valves, valve cores, 
valve caps and accessories , 
other than for heavy duty 

vehicle> , 749,2 84.6J 

(115) Watches (mechanical) In SKD 

condition 885.1 91.01/ 

07/. 19 


Iron and Steel Items, 

Carbon Steel Items (all grades) 

(116) (a) Forging-quality steel 

billets/bars/rods. 

(b) Forged rounds upto 

450mm dia. 

(c) Rolled rounds upto 

145 mm. 

, ( d ) Billets for seamless steel 

tubes ASTME 45 quality 

Alloy Steel Items (all grades) 

(117) (I) Stainless steel rounds, 

(//) Stainless steel flats. 

(HI) Alloy steel seuares and 

and other sections. 

(118) Stainless steel wires 304 L 
30 gauge and thicker. 

(119) Stainless steel strip In sizes 
ranging from 100 mm to 
150 mm and thickness from 
0.5 mm to 1.5 mm. 

Miscellaneous 

(120) Any item having anothet 
chemical name or synonym, 
but of the same nature, as 
any of the Items oovered by 

this List. NSC NSC 

(121) All consumer goods, howso¬ 
ever described, of Industrial, 
agricultural or animal origin, 
not appearing individually 
In Appendices 3 Part-A 
and 5 or specifically listed 
for import under Open 

General Licence. NSC NSC 

(122) All consumer goods In SKD 

condition NSC NSC 

(123) All defective/scrap material 
as well as cuttings other 
than those appearing Indi¬ 
vidually In Appendices 3. 

5 Part-A and.6. NSC NSC 

NOTE i— 

1. The ITC R. 2 and CCCN Code numbers have been 
assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry filed by 
the importor and on licences whenever issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs autho¬ 
rities for classification for tariff purposes. 

4. The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy will, 

however, continue to be as per description of the Items 
given in this Appendix and not according to the Code 
numbers assigned. i 

5. "NSC’ stands, for Not Separately Classified. 




HITB <KT 3Pm . araitfu ' il 


123 


t*mrl —t» i] 



A PPHNDTW 8 

RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS, CONSUMABLES, TOOLS Sc SPARES 
LIST OP LIMITED PERMISSIBLE ITEMS, 

PART—A 

RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS, CONSUMABLES, TOOLS AND SPARES (OTHER THAN 

IRON & STEEL A FERRO ALLOYS) 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 



Code 

Cod* 

i jumJml and Allied Items 



I. Acetaldehyde 

516.21 

20.11 

2. Acetarsol, 

541.7903 

29.32 

3. Aceto Acetanilide 

314.7002 

29.25 

4 . Accto Acet Ortho Chloro AniliJe 
(AAOCA). 

314.7003 

29.25 

5. Aceto Acet Ortho Totoidjnc. 

514.3037 

29.22 

6 . Acetone. 



7. Acetyl derivatives of sulpha drugs. 

NSC 

NSC 

8 . Acetylene Black. 

— 

— 

9 . Acrylic ester monomers, namely 
ethyl acrylate butyl, acrylate, ethyl 
acrylate, methyl acrylate and 2- 
ethyl hexyl acrylate. 

NSC 

NSC 

10. Acrylic plastic shoets/offeuts, other 
than Acrylic plastic sheets of 0.83 
mm to 1.2 mm thickness 

583 

39.07/ 

39,02 

11. Activated Carbon. 

— 

— 

12. Allyl Isocyanate. 

523.2602 

28 44 

13. All types of PVC Stabiliser* suoh 
as liquid barium cadmium, organo 
tin stabilisers, solid Barium 

Cadmium complex stabilisers and 
Lead stabilisers. 



14 Alpha Naphtylamino. 

514.5026 

29.22 

13. Aluminium chloride. 

323.1201 

28.30 

lfl. Aluminium hydroxide gel. 

522.5600 

28.20 

17. Aluminium powder/flnkes except 
Industrial explosive grade. 

684.2400 

76.05 

18. Aluminium stearate. 

NSC 

NSC 

19. Alpha hydroxyprogesterone and ttd> 
ostars except 17-alpha hydroxy pro¬ 
gesterone caproato. 

541.59 

29.39 

2(i. Amlnoanthraquinono. 

514.6006 

514.6007 

29.23 

21. 4-Amino diphenyl amine. 

314.5021 

29 22 


22. Ammonium bicarbonate. 

ITC Rev. 2 
Code 

523.2401 

CCCN 

Cod* 

28.42B 

23. Ammonium bromide. 

523.2909 

28.33 

24. Ammonium carbonate. 

523.2402 

28.42B 

25. Ammonium chloride (industrial 
and battery grades). 

523.1202 

28.30 

26. Ammonium chromate, other than 
analytical reagent grade. 

523.3119 

28.47 

27. Ammonium molybdate. 

323.3119 

28.47 

28. Ammonium phosphate (mono and 
di). 

523.2219 

31,03 

29, Amyl acetate. 

513.7202 

29,14 

30. Amyl salloylate. 

N^C 

29.16 

31. Angora rabbit hair. 

NSC 

53.02 

32. Anthralllo acid. 

NSC 

NSC 

33. AnthranWo add. 

314.6028 

29.23 

34. Anthraqulnonc. 

516 

29.13 

35. Anthraqulnonc sulphonlc add- 
sodium salt. 

NSC 

29.13 

36. Antipyrine benzene sulphonate. 

NSC 

NSC 

37. Antlpyrine/Phenezone (1 -phenyl-2, 
3-DimethyI-5 Pyrazolone). 

NSC 

29.33 

38. A ur an tine (or Aurantial or Argeol). 

NSC 

23.03 

39. Asbestos jointing sheets (Includ¬ 


_ 

ing limpet sheets and beater addi¬ 
tion Jointings). 

40. Bare rubber thread upto 90 gauge. 

621,0300 

40.07 

41. Barium Carbonate. 

323.2403 

28.42 

42. Barium chloride. 

523.1203 

28.30 

43. Barium chromate, other than 
analytical reagent grade. 

523.3119 

28.47 

44. Barium nitrate. 

523.2111 

28.39 

43. Barium Polysulphldo. 

523.1311 

28.35 



124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX 3 PART A -Contd 

!TC Rtv 2 CC.CN 
Code Cod* 


46. Barium stearate. 

H3 79 

29.14 

47. Barium sulphate. 

323.1903 

28.trf 

48. Barium sulphide. 

523.1509 

28,35 

49. Belladona extracts. 

292.9101 

13.03 

50. Bonzdrithrone. 

560.2903 

29.13C 

51. Benzathine'penicillin. 

541.31 

29.44 

52. Benzidine (free base) 

514.5003 

29.22 

53. Benzoic acid. 

513,7901 

29.14 

54. Benzyl Alcohol. 

512.2001 

29.05 

55. Bertzaldehyde. 

— 

■— 

56. Bephenium hydroxynaphthoale. 

NSC 

NSC 

57. Beta—amino—anthraqulnone. 

514.6006 

514.6007 

29,23 

58. BetaNaptbol 

512.3605 

29.06 

59. Bismuth chromate other than 

analytical reagent grade. 

523.3J19 

28.47 

60. Bismuth citrate. 

513.9029 

29.16 

61. Bismuth oxychloride. 

523.1219 

28,30 

62. Bismuth salicylate. 

513.9029 

29.16 

63. Bismuth sub-carbonate. 

523.2419 

28.42 

64. Bismuth sub-nitrate. 

523.2119 

28.39 

65. Blue print paper. 

NSC 

37.03 

66 , Borax. 

— 

_ 

67. Borneol/Iso-borncol and Its esters 
including bomyl acetate, but ex- 

eluding Iso-Bornyl acetate. 

512.2002 

513.7209 

29.05 

68 . Bromide paper (black and white). 

NSC 

37.03 

69. Bromo benzanthrone. 

516.2903 

29.13 

70. Buchu leaves. 

NSC 

12.07 

71, Buclizine and its salts. 

NSC 

29.33 

72 Butanol (Normal and Iso) but 
excluding secondary and tertiary 

butanoJ. 

512.1300 

29.04 

73. Butyl acetate. 

513.7205 

29.14 

74. Butylated hydroxy tolucne/dltertiary 

butyl para cresol. 

NSC 

NSC 

75. Butyl titanate. 

NSC 

28.47 

76. Cadmium compounds, the following : 


(1) Cadmium acetate. 

NSC 

29.14 

(2) Cadmium bromide. 

NSC 

28.33 

(3) Cadmium carbonate. 

NSC 

23,42 

(4) Cadmium chloride. 

NSC 

23.30 


[Part I—Stc. 1] 


!TC Rev 2 CCCN 
Code Cod* 


(5) Cadmium chromate, other than 
malytical reagent grade. 

523 iin 

28 

(6) Cadmium iodide. 

NSC 

28 34 

(7) Cadmium maroon. 

NSC 

NSC 

(8) Cadmium nitrate. 

NSC 

28.39 

(9) Cadmium oxide. 

522.5903 

28.28 

(10) Cadmium phosphate. 

NSC 

28.40 

(11) Cadmium stearate. 

513.79 

29.14 

(12) Cadmium sulphate. 

NSC 

28.38 

(13) Cadmium sulphide. 

523.1501 

28.35 

' (14) Cadmium red. 

NSC 

32.0^ 

(15) Cadmium yellow. 

NSC 

32.07 

77. Calcined Petroleum Coke. 

335.4200 

27.14 

78. Calcium Carbide. 

— 

— 

79, Calcium Carbonate. 

— 

— 

80, Calcium compounds, the following t 



(1) Calcium chloride. 

523.1204 

28.30 

(2) Calcium chromate, other than 
analytical reagent grade. 

NSC 

28.47 

(3) Calcium D-Saccharate. 

NSC 

NSC 

(4) Calcium lactate. 

513.9002 

29.16 

(5) Calcium phosphate (mono and 
tri). 

523.2211 

28.40 

(6) Calcium stearate 

513.79 

29.14 

81. Campheno. 

511.29 

29.01 

82. Camphor. 

516.2907 

516.2908 

29.13 

83. Caprolactum 

— 

— 

84. Carbersons. 

341.7918 

30.03 

83. Carbon black excluding channel- 
black and lamp black for rubber 
goods manufacturing industry 

522.1802 

28 03 

86 . Carbon blocks,—elcctrographitised. 
hard carbons and resin bonded 
carbons. 

778.8703 

85.24 

87. Carbon brushes. 

778.8704 

85.24 

88 . Carbon tetrachloride. 

511.3905 

29.02 

89. Oirboxy methyl cellulose and its 
salts, except dental grade. 

NSC 

39.03 

90. Cardamom oil. 

NSC 

33.01 

91. Casein (excluding soluble grade). 

585.2100 

39 04 

92. Catalyst (organic/inorganic) made 
of Platinum-rhodium, vanadium 
pentoxlde catalyst, low tempera¬ 
ture and high temperature carbon 
monoxide conversion catalvst, and 
methanstlon catalyst. 

‘W 9 

.38 12 

9>. Celery seed oil. 

NSC 

33.01 

94. Cellulose acetate' moulding poudi’i 
aranules/ofl cuts/cuttings. 

584.320. 

! 39.0 3 



[m I—4RT l] 


a m rareqr 


125 



APPENDIX ! 


ITC Re. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

95. Cellulose film. 

NSC 

39.01 to 
39.06 

96. Cement colours. 

661.2 

25.23 

97. Cerium nitrate. 

NSC 

28.52 

98. Cetrimide 

NSC 

29.25 , 

99. Chemicals for metal treatment based 
on phosphoric acid. 

522.2401 

2S.10 

100, Chicory seeds 

071.2002 21.01/ 
(roasted) 12.05 
054.8801 
(unroasted) 

101. China clay (other than ball clay). 

278.2106 

25.07 

102. Chloral and Chloral hydrate In¬ 
cluding preparations thereof. 

NSC 

29 12/ 

29.84 

103. Chloramphenicol powder and 

Chloramphenicol palmitate, ex¬ 

cluding chloramphenicol stearate 
and chloramphenicol sodium 

succinate. 



104. Chloridiazapoxide, its salts and 
derivatives. 

NSC 

29.35 

105. Chloridine hydroxide. 

NSC 

NSC 

106. Chlorinated paraffins. 

NSC 

38 19 

107, Chlorinated tri-sodium phosphate. 

523.2215 

28.40 

108. i-Chloroanthraquinone. 

516.2911 

29.13 

109 Chlorobutol. 

NSC 

29.04 

110. Chloroform. 

511.3908 

29.02 

111. 5-Chloro-o-toluidine. 

514.6035 

29.2.) 

112. Chlotosulpbonic acid. 

522.2101 

28,06 

113. Chlorotetracyline and its salts. 

541.3300 

29.44 

114. Choline and its salts. 

541.1001 

29.38 

I IS. Chrome alum, potash, other than 
analytical reagent grade. 

523.1911 

28.38 

116. Chrome colour and burns—wick 
green. 

NSC 

32.07 

117. Chromic acid. 

NSC 

28.21 

118. Chromiarn sulphate (basic). 

523.1919 

28.38 

119. Cinema Arc Carbon, high and low 
intensity, including rotating high 
Intensity. 

778.87 

■<5.24 

120. Cinematograph film. black and 
white, not exposed (positive and 
sound negative). 

882.2201 

17.02 

171. Cittai, 

Me 2? 

.’9 1 1 • 

122. Cltrfc acid. 

i} Vnx>r 

>9.1' 


A RT-A —Contd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


123. Citroneila Oil. 

551.3045 

551.3046 

33.01 

124. Citroneila pure. 

NSC 

NSC 

125, Citronelyl acetate. 

513.72 

29.14 

126. Clofibrate, 

NSC 

NSC 

127. Coal tar disinfectant fluid (black). 

335.2101 

335.2109 

27.06 

128. Coal tar naphtha. 

335.25 

27.07 

129. Cobalt acetate. 

513.7102 

' 29.14 

130. Colchicine. 

s 

NSC 

29.42 

131. Compounded electroplating salts 
of nickel, copper, silver, zinc, 
cadmium, tin, chromium, brass, 
etc. and their hrighteners and 
levellers. 

598.9908 

38.19 

132. Conveyor beltings upto 1700 mm 
width excluding those mentioned 
in App 6-List 8-Part I. 

NSC 

NSC 

133. Copper Alloy Powder and flakes 
(other than Bronze Powder).' 

— 

— 

134. Copper compounds, the following 

- 


(1) Copper chloride (cuprous and 
cupric). 

NSC 

28.30 

(2) Copper oxides (cuprous and 
cupric). 

522.5904 

28.28 

(3) Copper sulphate. 

523.1904 28.38 

135. Corrugated paper and boards. 

641.7400 

48.05 

136. Cotton yarn/fabrics/thread. 

651.31 

652.14 

651.3602 

55.05 

55.09 

55.05 

137. Cubic Zirconla. 

— 

— 

138. Cumin oil. . 

551.3041 

33.01 

139. Cycli7ine and its salts. 

NSC 

29.35 

140. Cyclo hexylamiue. 

— 

— 

143. Cynnamyl acetate. 

NSC 

NSC ’ 

142. 3—Cynopyrfdinc, 

515.6928 

29.35 

143. Decorative laminates. 

NSC 

NSC 

144. Decorative Papers. 

641.9700 

48.11 

145. Developers and fixing salts for 
processing of X-Ray films. 

882.1 

37.08 

1 Mi. Diaceione or Diaceione alcohol. 

516.2912 

29.12 

147. Diagonostic agent—VDRL antigen. 

NSC 

30.02/ 

30.05 

! <*, ’ ~ 4; I- % .’ ; a f M-HTifno-'tmhra- 
iwione. 

514.6041/ 

29.32 


Mm 



126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec.1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Conld. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 
Coda Coda 


C.I. 1TC Ret. 2 CCCN 
No. Xoda Coda 


149. 4 i 4 Diamine stilbene disulphonic 
acid. 

NSC 

29.22 

150. 3 i 3 Dichloro benzidine di-hydro- 
chlorlde base and Its salts. 

NSC 

29,22 

151. 2 I 5 Dichloro nitro benzene. 

511.4002 

29,0.) 

152. 4, 7—Dichloroqulnoliue. 

NSC 

29.35 

153. l-{2 ; 5) Dichloro-4-sulpticnyl~3- 
methyl-pyrazolone. 

515,6911 

29.35 

154. Diethyl-carbamazineond Its salts. 

541.7926 

29.35 

153. Diethyl carbanyl chloride. 

NSC 

29.25 


(15) Para Rod 

12070 

NSC 1 

(16) 

Brown Toner 

12071 

NSC 

(17) 

Slimal Red/Red TonorR 

12085 

NSC 

(18) 

Oil Orange T 

12100 

NSC 

(19) 

Toluidine Red * 

12120 

NSC 

(20) 

Oil Brilliant Scarlet 

12150 

NSC 

(21) 

Oil Scarlet 

12155 

NSC 

(22) 

Oil Red 2R 

12170 

NSC 

(23) 

Pigment Fast Maroon 

12305 

NSC 

(24) 

Permanent Red F4R 

12335 

NSC 

(25) 

S.F. Maroon 

12350 

NSC 

(26) 

Hello Fast Red BB; 

12370 

NSC 

(27) 

Permanent Bordeaux 




F2R 

12385 

NSC 

(28) 

Permanent Red FRLI 

12-160 

NSC 

(29) 

Permanent Carimine FB 12490 

NSC 

(30) 

Oil Yellow PX 

12740 

NSC „ 


136. Diethyl ether. 


316.11 29.08 


(31) Hello Fast yellow 12G 12773 NSC 32/13 


157. Diethyl inalonate, 513.89 29.15 

158. Diethyl metn aminophanol. 514.6044 29.23 

159. Diethylethanolamlne. — — 


S Lake Red D 13500 

Lake Red DBA 15500 

Lake Rod DCA 15500 - 

Red Lake C/LC/Vulcan 
Red. 15585 


531.5203 


32.06 


160. Dlhydrostreptomycin base and Its 
salt. 

161. 1 : 4 Dlhydroxy anthraquinono 
(Quinizarino including lonco qulnl- 
zarine). 

162. 1 t 5 Dlhydroxy anthraquinono. 

163. Di-methyl benzimidazole. 

164A. Dimethyl Ethanolamlne. 

164B. D.M.T, 

165. Dinltro sdlbeno disulphonic add. 

166. Dlosgcnin. 




(36) Llthol Red 

15630 

NSC 

NSC 

29.44 

(37) Brilliant Lake Rod R 

15800 

531.5203 



(38) Rublino Toner 

15850 

NSC 



(39) Permanent Red 2B 

15865 

NSC 

516.2915 

29.13 

(40) Maroon toner 

15880 

NSC 

(41) Golden Yollow GR 

20045 

NSC 

NSC 

29.13 

(42) Benzidine yellow 

(43) Vulcan Fast yellow CG 

21090 

21095 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

29.35 

(44) Benzidine Yellow 

21100 

NSC 

(45) Permanent yellow GG 

21105 

NSC 



(46) Permanent orange G 

(47) Vulcan Fast Red D 

21110 

NSC 



21120 

NSC 


_ 

(48) Fast-Orange R 

21160 

NSC 



(49) 011 Red G 

26100 

■ NSC 

511-.4039 

29.03 

(50) OB Red 

26103 

NSC 


(5l) Oil Black 

26130 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

(52) Peacock Blue 

42023 

NSC 


32.03 
-J 32.0} 


k 32.03 


i 

J 

92. oi 


167. Diponteno. 

168. Diphonylamine. 

169. Dlsodium phosphates. 

170. Duplex Board. 


5U.2902 29.01/ 
38.07 

514.5021 29.22 
523.22 28.40 
NSC NSC 


171. Organic pigment colour) and oil toluble colour ~ 

C.l. No. 

(1) Hello Fast Yellow 12 G 

(Pigment Oreea). 10 531.5331 32.06 

(2) Permanent Yellow HR 

(Pigment Yellow). 83 531.3301 32.06 


(33) Lake Green 

42040 

331.3206 


32.06 

(54) Lake Violot Toner 

42533 

NSC 

32.0'' 

(55) Oil Violet 

42335B NSC 

92.03 

(36) Solvent Blue 4 

44043 

531.5205 

93.05 

(37) Lake Pink 

45160 

NSC 

1 


(58) Dlbromofluoresceln 

45370 

NSC 



(59) Tetrabromofluoresoeln. 

45380 

NSC 



(60) Quinoline yeltow 

(61) Nlgrosine 

47000 

NSC 



50413 

531.1222 


■ 32.: 

(62) Phthalocyanioe Blue 

74160 

NSC 


(63) Phthalocyanino Green 

74260 

NSC 



(64) Oil Black 

77011 

NSC 



(63) OU Blue 

77450 

NSC 

i 

i 


(3) Permanent Carmine FBB 
—(Pigment Red) 

(4) Quinazarlne Green Base 


146 531.5312 32.06 
656 NSC NSC 


(66) Vat blue I 

(67) Indigo vet blue I 

(68) Reduced Vat blue 1 


730013 

73000 -531.81C1 gmM 
73001. 


(5) Pigment Green B 


10006 531.3331 32.06 


(6) Oil yellow AM 

(7) Hansa Yellow SG 

(8) Hama Yellow 10G 

(9) 011 Brilliant yellow 

(10) Hanaa Yellow G 

(11) Oil yellow AR 

(12) Oil Brown D 

(13) Ofl Orange Pi 
0 '• Fan! (Vurjtr 


11020 

NSC 


11660 

NSC 


11710 

NSC 


11800 

NSC 


11860 

NSC 


11920 

NSC 


12020 

NSC 


12033 

NSC 


<2060 

Hi yju/ 

j 


(69) Metal Complex dye*. ‘he 
following r— 


(1) Yellow GB 
(ft) Blue 2G. 
OH) Violet. 

(fv) Black Walk, 
(r) Orange G 
(*■«) Brown B 


13900 

14880 

15685 

15711 

18743 


I Ni. < 


J 


in. W-vtayi hWiMit ityr*** 

p’9yni*r» fttt 


3S.0S- 


43 .*:- 






[ttwI— 1 ] w wra: jmranw 127 

APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Contd. 


arc Re?. 2 CCCN Code 

ITC-Rer. 2 

CCCN 

Code 


Code 

Code 

173 G.D.T.A. and its sodium salts. 

NSC 

NSC 

201. Glybenclamide. 

NSC 

NSC 

174. Eleetrocast refractories with 

. 

— 

202. Glyoxal 40%. ■ 

NSC 

29.11 

Zirconia content less than 40%. 


29.42 



203- Gold cyanide. 

173. Emetine hydrochloride. 

NSC r 



176. Esters/salts of para hydroxy benzoic 

,— 

— 

204. Graphite crucibles (clay bonded) 
upto size 300. 

— 

-- 

add Including Methyl, Ethyl, 





Propyl. 



205. Graphite Crucibles (Silicon carbide 



177. Ethinyl estradiol. 

NSC 

NSC 

bonded) upto size 100. 

663.7001 

69.03 

178. Ethyl Acetate. 

513.7206 

29.14 

206. Graphite electrodes excluding the 





sizes 21” diameter and above and 



179. Ethyl alcohol. 

512.16017 

512.1602^ 

22 03 

graphite anodes (excluding midget 
carbon electrodes). 

NSC 

85.24- 

180. Ethylamine (mono, di, tri.) 

514.5049 

29.22 

207. Guaicol glyceryl ether. 

516.11 

29 08 

181. Ethyl chloride 

511.3914 

29.02 

208. HalogerUfted derivatives of 



182. Ethyl oleate. 

NSC 

NSC 

Hydroxy quinoline, 1 he following i — 



183. Ethyl/Methyl ateto acetate. 

— 

— 

(t) 5, 7-Di-iodo-3-hydroxyquinoliue* 
((/) 5-Chloro-7-iodo-8-hydroxy- 

I 


184, Ethylphenyl acetate. 

NSC 

29.14 

quinoline. 

(til) 5, 7-Dibromo-8-hydroxyqulno- 
line. 

(iv) 5, 7-Dlchloro-8-hydroxyquino)- 

1.511.3929 29.02 

183. Ethylene diamine and its derivatives. 





namely, diethylene triamine triethy¬ 
lene letramine and polyamine*.. 

311.5023 

29.22 

linc. 









209. Heparine. 

585.2901 

39.0b 

lKti, Ethylene urea. 

NSC 

31.02 

210. Hcpialdcbyde (fatty uldehjde). 

516,21 

29.11 

187. Eucalyptus oil (all grades). 

551 3015 

33.01 

211. Hyaluronidases. 

541.7912 

30.03 

188. Eugenol acetate. 

NSC 

29.08 

212. Hydrate of alumina and glass white 

NSC 

NSC 

189. Ferric chloride. 

523.1206 

28.30 

313. Hydrazine Hydrate/Sulphato. 

522.5906 

28.28 

190. Ferrous compounds, the following !- 

- 


214. Hydrazine hydrochloride. 

NSC 

28.28 

(1) Ferrous fumarate. 

513.7908 

29.14D 

213. Hydrochloric acid- 

522.2102 

28,06 

(2) Fetrou* gluconate. 

NSC 

NSC 




523.1906 

28.38 

216. Hydrofluoric acid. 

522.2913 

28.13 

(3) Ferrous sulphate. 

191. Form compounds, mechanical (pro¬ 
tein based for fire fighting). 

29.06 



217. Hydroquinone. 

512.3602 



NSC 

NSC 

218. Hydroxy citronellal. 

312.1902 

29.04 

191. Formaldehyde (other than para 
formaldehyde). 

516 2108 

29.11 

219. Insecticides, pesticides and weed! 
cJdes, the following i — 



173. Fumario add. 

NSC 

29.13 

(1) Alpha Napthyl Acetic Acid. 

312.3604 

29,06 

!,M. Fmrftwal. 

__ 

— 

(2) Aurofungin, 

NSC 

NSC 

193. Pur.aolldeno, 

NSC 

29.35 

(3) Barium Carbonate. 

523.2403 

28.42 




(4) Carbary). 

NSC 

29,23 

198, Gambler Extracts. 

332.2101 

32,01 



(3) Carbendazhn/MBC technical. 

NSC 

NSC 

197, Oanuilnl. 

312.1904 

29.04 

(6) Chlormequate Chloride includ¬ 



198. Gmuyl scetal*. 

NSC 

29.14 

ing Cycooell. 

NSC 

NSC 




(7) Copper Accto Arsenate. 

NSC 

29.43 

199. Glass iK-tds/chiUons/iaise peat Is, 
except sintered glass beads (cylin¬ 



(8) Copper Oxychloride. 

523.1205 

28.30 

drical rings) 

665.8202 

70.19 

(9) Coumachlore. 

NSC 

NSC 

9W. Glass 6hTr/}tstu, fabrics. roviug* 



(10) 2,4—D. 

NSC 

29.39 

••J chopped i»ui»ud*/man and 
j.'lMir* made 'hrtefrorn Including 



(lit 0.0 V.F- 'Vjpooa) 

— 

— 

fllnr Sites! me chan bent .but nt 

ihnn x«a'h.tt,>'l 1 1 AS't'Cnot-i < -* 



(13 1 lmncth. t.ttr; 

NSC 

.">.31 

1 P#il 1 

IMS 9*0 1 

rii.AP' 

(13) Dmron. 





128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 3 PAftVA— Contd 


ITC-Rev, 2 

CCCN 


Code 

Code 

(14) Ethion 

NSC 

29.31 

(15) Ethylene dlchioride and carbon 


tetrachloride mixture. 

511.3915 

29.02 

(16) Ethyl mercury chloride. 

511.3914 

29.33 

(17) Fenitrothion 

NSC 

NSC 

(18) Fenthion 

(19) Ferric dimethyidithio carbama 

— 

—• 

te (Ferbam). 

NSC 

29.31 

(20) Flucbloralin 

- 

— 

(21) Formulations of those pesticides 


which are based on technical 

- 

pesticides included in OGL 



(22) Lindane 

(23) Lime Sulphur 

(24) Manganese Ethylene bis dithio- 

591.1015 

522.1503 

689.9914 

38. It 

28.02 

81.04 

carbarmate (Manab). 

(25) Metaldehyde. 

NSC 

29.11 

(26) Methoxyethyl mercury chloride 

523.1208 

29.33 

(27) Methyl Parathion 

591.1018 

38.11 

(28) Monocrotophos (Technical). 

NSC 

NSC 

(29) Nickel chloride. 

NSC 

28.30 

(30) Nicotine sulphate. 

(31) Oxydemeton-O-Melhyl 

541.1017 

29.42 

(Metasystox). 

-- 

— 

(32) Para di-Chloro benzene 

NSC 

29.02 

(33) PCP 

NSC 

NSC 

(34) Paraquat dimethyl sulphate/para 



quat dichloride. 

—. 

— 

(35) Phenyl mercury acetate. 

NSC 

29,33 

(36) Phosaloue. 

-- 

— 

(37) Phosphamidon Technical. 

NSC 

NSC 

(38) Phorate. 

(39) Pyrethrum-preparations conta¬ 
ining this item. 

NSC 

292.4026 

29.31 

12.07: 

13,03/ 

38.11 


(40) Quinaiphos 

NSC 

NSC 

(41) Streptocydine 

NSC 

29.44 . 

(42) TCA 

NSC 

NSC 

(43) Thanite. 

NSC 

NSC 

(44) TMT (Thiuram). 

591.2004 

38.11 

(45) Warfarin. 

NSC 

NSC 

(46) Wettable sulphur/sulphur dust. 

NSC 

ii>5.03 

(47) Zinc phosphide. 

(48) Zinc dimethyl dithio-carhamate 

523.9201 

28.55 

(Ziram). 

591.2006 

38.11 

(49) Zinc ethylene bis dithio-carbo 



nate, (Zineb) other than Zineb 
Technical 85% and above. 

591.2005 

38.11 

220. lonotm 100% including pseudo 



lonoae. 

NSC 

29.13 

22L Iron ammonium stow 

Ml 79?4 

29.11 

222. Iron bromide 

NM 

ii 

823- I»o-butyi phenyl ac«tuU 

NSt 



ITC Rev. 2 CCCN Cod* 
Code 


224. fso Nicotnic acid. 

541.7937 

29 38 

225. Isophane. 

NSC 

NSC 

226. Iso propyl antlpyrine 

— - 

— 

227. Isoxaminc. 

NSC 

NSC 

228. Ketonic resins 

— 

— 

229. Laboratory glassware other than 
those made of quartz glass. 

665.8102 

70.17 

230 Lactic acid. 

513.9003 

29 16 

271. Lanolin anhydrous/Adeps lari >ej 
Wool fat (all grades) excluding woo! 
grease. 

411.3400 

15 05 

232. Lanthanum oxides/salt*. 

NSC 

28 05 

233. Lauryiperoxide. 

NSC 

29.14 

234. Lead nitrate. 

NSC 

28.29 

235. Lead stearate. 

513.7929 

29. H 

236. Lemon grass oil. 

551.3025 

33.01 

237. Lignocaine and lignocmne hydro 
chloride. 

541.7916. 

30 03 

238. Litharge'Pled lead/Whilc load. 

522.4702 
to .4709 

28 27 

233. Magnesium compounds, the following;— 


(1) Magnesium carbonate (heavy) 

523.2405 

28.42 

(2) Magnesium chloride. 

523.1207 

28.30 

(3) Magnesium chromate, other 
than analytical reagent grade. 

NSC 

28.4/ 

(4) Magnesium hydroxide. 

522.5503 

28 18 

i.5) Magnesium sulphate (Epsom 
salt). 

521.19 

2v 38 

(6) Magnesium steam#/ 

513.7929 

29 

t?) Magnesium friailicate. 

541.7942 

28.43 

240 Masek: anhydride. 

513.8100 

29.13 

241. Meclozlu# aud its win. 

NSC 

29.35 

242. Mela min# 

5i3.63ib 

29.33 

243. Menthol, sdi grade*. 

M2.2004 

29.02 

214. Meprobamate. 

— 

- 

245. Mereurochrome, 

NSC 

29.25 

246. Mercury chloride (tucrcurous and 
mercuric?. 

523.3119 

28,47 

247. Mercury iodidr. 

NSC 

28 34 

248. Met..-ary uttlde 

522.5908 

28.28 

249. Mata-amloophenoi. 

M4,6QIt 

19 21 

250. Meta ch*ow phesyl methyi 

i mis* >■* 

1)5 't 

29 ,;’B 


M«e v' f *► 





[wrl— 1 ] 


4>T : sritlhKri 


m 


APPENDIX 3 PARI 

A— Coma. 



ITC Rev. 2 f CCCN Code 

ITC Rev. 2 

CCCN 


Code 



Code' 

Code. 

252. Metal Graphite Carbon Blocks. 

778.8703 

85.24 

283. 4—Nitro diphenyl amine 

NSC 

29.03 

253. Metallised Polyester Films 

— 

— 

284. Nitro-furatoin. 

NSC 

NSC 

254. Metanillic acid 

514.6054 

29.23 

285. Nitro-furazone. 

NSC 

29.35 

255. Metanitro chloro benzene 

511.4014 

29.03 

286. N-methyl piperazine. 

NSC 

29.35 

256. Meta nitro para toluidine 

514.5034 

29.22 

287. N :• N dimethyl aniline. 

514.5007 

29.22 

257. Meta nitrotoluene. 

511.4021 

29.03 

288. Nitroso diphenylamine. 

514.5021 

29.22 

258. Metaphenylenc diamine. 

514.5032 

29.22 

289. Non-woven fabrics used as inter- 



259. Methacarbamol. 

NSC 

NSC 

linings both plain fusible and poly¬ 
ester waddings. 

657.2/ 

657.31 

59.03; 

59.07 

260. Metbanamine mandelate. 

NSC 

NSC 


261. Methylamine (mono, di and tri). 

NSC 

29.22 

290. Normal human serum albumiD and 



normal immunoglobulin serum 
human (Gamma Globulin). 

592.22U9 

35 02 

262. Methyl ethyl ketone peroxide. 



516.2400 

29.13B 


263. Methyl, ethyl and propyl esters of 

513.7907 

2 9.14D 

291. Nylon/Polyester fibre tips and syn- 
thatic fibre for sketch pens. 

895.2109 

98.03 

parahydroxy benzoic acid 

264. Methyl, ionone. 

NSC 

NSC 

292. Nylon moulding powder/chips 

582.4101 

39.01 

265. Methyl phenyl acetate. 

NSC 

29.14 

293. Octyl-titanate and other titanium 



alkoxides. 

NSC 

NSC 

266. Methyl salicylate. 

513.9011 

29.16 

294. Oleoresin capsicum. 

292.2247 

13.02 

267. Methyl testoterone, 

541.5904 

29.39D 

295. Oleoresin ginger. 

292.2244 

13.02 

268. Milk powder (all types). 

022.43 

04.02 

296. Oleoresin pepper. 

292.2245 

13.02 

269. Mirrors, all types. 

664.8 

70.09 

297. Organic surface active agents, the 
following :— 



270. Mohair fabrics/tops/yarn/waste. 

651.2 

53.05 



271. Mono chloro acetic acid and its salts. 

654.2 

53.11 

(1) Aqueous Film Forming Foam 
(AFFF) 

NSC 

NSC 


513.7103 

29.14 

272. Mono methyl amino antipyrine. 

✓ 

29.35 

(//) Ethylene Oxide Condensates 

516.1300 

29.09 

NSC 

(a) Ethylene Oxide Condensates 





of Alkyl Phenols (Octyl, 



273. Mono-sodium phosphates. 

523.2217 

28.40 

Nonyl, Dinonyl etc.) 

NSC 

34.02 

274. Musk ambrattec. 

511.4007 

29.03 

(b) Ethylene Oxide Condensa- 






tes of Fatty Alcohols 



275. Naphthol colours. 

NSC 

NSC 

(JLaury), oleyl, oetyl Ceto 
Stearyl, Cetyl, stearyl etc.). 

NSC 

34.02 

276. N-Acetyl sulphanilyl-chloride. 

NSC 

NSC 

(c) Ethylene Oxide conden- 



277. N-Butyl diethyl malonate. 

NSC 

29.15 

sates of Fatty Amines 




(Cocoamme. Stearyl Amine, 

34.02 

278. N-Butyl malonic acid. 

513.8904 

29.15 

etc.). 

NSC 

279. Napthionic acid/sodium 
naphthionate. 

514.6034 

29.23 

(Hi) lipidazolines, Betairs, Propio/u 
tes. Amino Oxides. 

NSC 

34.02 

280, Natural diamond in powder form. 

277.2100 

71.04 

(<r) Quaternary Ammonium Com¬ 
pounds like Alkyl Triethyl Am- 



281. Nickel compounds, the following:— 



monium Chloride etc. or any 
speciality compounds. 

514.8102 

34.02 

(1) Nickel ammonium sulphate. 

562.1300 

28.38 

tv) Sodium iauryl ether sulphate 

NSC 

34.02 

(2) Nickel carboaate. 

(3) Nickel formate. 

NSC 

NSC 

28.42 

29.14 

and Sodium Iauryl sulphate. 

{til in-ethanoiatnine Iauryl 



NSC 

34.02 

(.4) Nickel sulphate. 

NSC 

28.38 

sulphate. 

282 Niuu-celiutOMj. 

V. 1. . HI] 

39 03 

298. OttS'O artistduie. 

C>I4 t,02tl 

2V 23 



Ho 


[Part I-Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 3 1‘ARI-A-Cofltf 


fTC Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

299. Ortho dichlorobenzeuc 

511.3913 

29.02 

300. Ortho nitro aniline. 

514.5028 

29.22 

301. Ortho nitroanisole. 

516.1111 

29.08 

302. Ortho phenylene diamine. 

NSC 

29.22 

303. Ortho toluene sulphonamici;. 

' IJ.7i00 

2‘i .36 

304. Ortho toli'dine (O.T. liquid) 

— 

— 

305. Oxalic acid. 

si.8903 

29.15 

306. Oxyphcnyl butazon ■ 

Ni>C 

29. ,1 

307. Paints. 

f >3.4219 

K.'f 

303 . Paints driers (naphthenates, pclouies, 
linolaates, etc. of lead, cobatt, man¬ 
ganese, zinc, calcium, etc.). 

NSC 

C 11 

309. Palmarosa oil. 

.151,30jl 

53 01 

310. Palladium chloride. 

NSC 

29.50 

311. Papain. 

5.6.9105 

29.10 

312. Paper stationery items. 

611.21 

4«.01 

313. Para amino salicylic acid and ns 
salts 

'H JU13 

29 if> 


314. Para anisidine 

315. Para cresyl acetate NSC 29.14 

316. Para nltro phenol and its suits. p!2 Cl 2 29.d? 

31V. Para—aitrotoluene-d-solphoRic aUd. 511.4024 2V 03 

318. Paraphenetidine. 5)4.6063 29 23 

319. Para toluene sulphonamlde. 513.7100 29. •( 

320. Para toluidine. J11.5038 29.22 

321. Pearl essence. NSC 52.si9 

322. Penicillin O (sodium/ potassium; 
procaine) and phenoxy methyl pent- 

cillin. 3M,*>0W ”3 .>4 

323. Pentaofalorophenol and it* Sudlom 

salts, NS*“ 29. 'f 

324. PentaerythiJtol (all graJssi j» 2 .l 9 ii 29.ue 

323. Peppe* oil. 55! 3033 33.01 


326. Peppermint oil (e* Mentha Amis> 
sis). 

>Jt 3042 

1 

a o 

32T, Peptone. 

372.2401 

31 

328. Phenazopyiidia*. 

N*t 

29.33 

329. Phenazopyridino hydrochloric*. 

NSC 

NSC 

330, PhenobarbUime 

.9 St 

29.28 

331. Phenolic/urea/sneiam os/alkyd cwieto 
resiiWeompositionsf/ij. otbat<!)> 

if.b’tlb 

2 CBS 

812. PheoOthtaztne loe'vd t <l >. 

the dfacMttlb ) i 


t> -r 


ITC-ftevt 2 CCCN 



Code 

Code 

333. Phenyl acetic acid 

513.7211 

29.14 

334. Phenyl acetamide. 

NSC 

29.25 

335. Phenyi butazone 

NSC 

29.25 

336. Phenyl ethyl acetate. 

NSC 

29.14 

337. Phenyl ethyl alcohol. 

512.2005 

29.05 

338. Phenyl ethyl phenyl acetate 

NSC 

29.14 

339. Phosphorous pentoxide. 

522.2402 

28.10 

340. Phthalate plasticise! s. 

598 9915 

38 19 

311 Phthahc anhydride (PAN t 

513.8200 

29.15 

<42. Phthalyl sulphathiazole 

541.7955 

30.03 

543 Picoiine. alpha 

31.1.69 

29.35 

344. Pine oil. 

398 iiu2 

38.07 

343. Pine Ur 

346. Plasticizer Altohoh (Cm m C.12j~- 

398.1901 

38.09 

straight chain. 

NSC 

NSC 

347. Plastic woven tapes/sacks 

NSC 

NSC 

348. Poiyamide/Polyester chips ol Evils 
and plastic grades. 

NSC 

39.01 

349. Polyester resins (unsaturated) 

350. Polyethylene glycol 

582.J103 

39.01 

331. Polypropylene film (plain/melaiiised) 
othei than those required for elec¬ 
tronic industry. • 

NSC 

39.02 

352, Polyurethane foam/sheets including 
laminations thereof. 

NSC 

39.01 

433. Polyvinyl chloride plastic film and 
iheets, all sorts (upfo 70"C Vicat 
softening point). 

583.4 

39.02 

3 54, Postei and water colours. 

513. >200 

32.10 

455. Potassium Compounds, the follow¬ 
ing t— 



(1) Potassium acetate. 

NSC 

29.1« 

(2) Potassium bitartarate. 

513.9012 

29.16 

(3) Potassium bromide (other than 
photographic grade). 

52.3.2901 

28,33 

t4i Potassium citrate. 

313.9013 

29.16 

(3) Potassium ferricyamde. 

523.2504 

28.43 

( 6 ) Potassium hydrogen taitarate 
(Cream of Tartar), 

313.9029 

29.16 

(7) Potassium Iodide, 

523 2912 

28.34 

t 8 ) Potassium permanganate. 

523.3102 

28.47 

(9) Potassium sodium tertarats 

S Rochelle salt i 

341.7933 

29.14 

r,! ) o, ai ii.i i . iHh 

>' ,‘> 1 

38.43 



[•(TFrl—l] 


3r*rrarr«r 


131 


APPENDS 3 PABf -A—Contd 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 



Code 

Code 

(11) Potassium guiacol Sulphonate 
(Thiacol/Potassium Sulfoguiaco- 
late). 

516.1113 

29.08 

(12) Potassium dichromate. 

523.3101 

28.47 

(13) Potassium gold cyanide 

A 

— 

356. Precipitated silica (excluding colloi¬ 
dal and fumed). 

NSC 

28.13 

357. Printing and writing inks including 
ball pen inks (but excluding 
* heat-set hot carbonised printing ink 
—for printing industry only). 

533.2 

32.13 

358. Probenocid. 

NSC 

29.36 

359. Products made of cork, natural or 
waste excluding shuttle cork bottom 
and cork powder of 200 mesh and 
fineness. 

244.0 

45.01 

360. Progesterone. 

541.5905 

29.39 

361. Propantheline bromide. 

NSC 

NSC 

362. Prussian blue. 

NSC 

32.07 

363. PTFE sheets/rods. 

NSC 

39.01 

364. PVC compounds except for the 
manufacture of gramaphone records. 

583.4 

39.02 

363. PVC leather cloth of all sorts in¬ 
cluding PU leather cloth. 

657.3201 

59.08 

366. Rare earth fluoride. 

524.9200 

28.52 

367. Rare earth pure. 

278.9908 

25.32 

368. Refractory bricks and shapes mino- 
lith ramming masses mortars in¬ 
cluding dead burnt magnesite with 
more than 6% silica content 

663.7 

69.03 

369. Rubber chemicals, the following!— 

598.9917 

38.19 

(1) Acceleration — 

598.3300 

38.13 

U) 2-Mercaptobenzothazole 
and its Zn salt. 

NSC 

29.35 

(2) Dibenzothiazyl disulphide. 

NSC 

29.31 

(3) Tetramethyl Thiuram disul¬ 
phide. 

591.2004 

38.11 

(4) N-Cyclothexyl—2-Ben zo- 
thiazyl sulphenamide. 

514.5014 

29.22 

(S) Benzothlazyl-2-tert-butyl 
sulphenamide. 

NSC 

29.35 

(6) Benzothlazyl-2-Suiphonemaf> 
pholide and its blend with 
Diabonzothiazy! disulphide. NSC 

38 15 

(7) Bonzothlazyl-2-decylohexyl 
Sulphenamide. 

NSC 

NSC 

(8) Bium ui Dibenzothiazyl dl* 
»uiph<U - ith Diphenyl gua 

alii I it r 

NSC 

NSC 

'91 Zu-N-Ptsthy DflMoter 
Nunate 

U&t 

mr 


ITC Ref. 2 CCCN • 



Code 

Code 

(ii) Antioxidants i— 598.9902 

38.19 

(1) 

N-Phenyl-N-Isopropyl-P- 
phenylene diamine. NSC 

29.22 

(2) 

N-l, 3-di-methyl butyl-N- 
phenyl-p-phenylene diamine. NSC 

29.22 

(3) 

Condensation product of 
acetone and di-pheny- 
tamine (solid arid liquid.) NSC 

29.22 

(4) 

v* 

(a) Mixture of N ; phenyl-N- 
tolyl-p-phenylene diamine 
N-phenyl-N-phenyl-p-pheny- 
lene diamine and N-tolyl- 
N-tolyl-p-phenylene diamine. NSC 

38.19 


(b) 1,2-dihydro-2, 2,4, tri- 

mehyl quineljpe polymerised. NSC NSC 


(5) Phenyl beta naphthyl amine. 514.5034 29.22 


370. Rubber products inclusive of pro¬ 
ducts from natural and/or synthetic 
rubber and accessories excluding 
the following!— 

62! 

40.03 

(i) Oil seals, bushings, O Rings 
and tyres/tubes (including flaps 
in equal numbers) for auto¬ 
motive application. 

NSC 

NSC 

(ii) Drive rubber belts, rubber 

rings, rubber cushions and 
rubber rollers for tape recor¬ 
ders/tape deck-mechanulm. 

NSC 

40.10 

(Hi) Rubber blankets, for drafting 
machines and condensers 

rubbing aprons woolen cards. 

NSC 

40.16 

371. R. Salt. 

278.3001 

25.01 

372. Saffron. 

075.2804 

09.10 

373. Salleylamldc. 

341.7968 

30.03 

374. Sandal wood oil including synthetic- 
sandal wood oil. 

531.3035 

33.01 

375. Santonia. 

NSC 

29.35 

376. Sera and vaccines, the folio win* i— 



(1) Anti-influenza vaccine. 

341.6429 

30.02 

(2) Anti-rafale vaccine. 

S41.6429 

30.02 

(3) Aati-venom serum 

341.6429 

30.03 

(4) Cholera vaccine 

541 6411 

— 

(5) T.A B vaccine 

541 6414 

— 

(6) Tetaaas antl-toim 

54! 641J 

— 

(7) Triple vaccine 

541.6429 

— 

377. Sheets/fapes/itripe—-Polyethylene, 
Polystyrene. PVC end ABS 

583 1301 

39 02 

378. gfi 

m 7<3i6 

28 ! 3 

379. r* •( Ui..*. 

NSC 

iv »( 



132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1 


\PPLNL>I\ 3 PART-A — Cmld 


nC-Rev. 2 

.’CCS 

f'o.le 

Code 

XiO Silk fanrics'iSiraad yam/wade/noils 

654 i 

61 09 

331. Silver nitrate. 

123 1201 

28.49 

382. Silver protein, mild and strong 

- 

- 

383. Sisal yarn 

-* ill 

>' 0, 

384. Sodium compounds the lolloping: 



(11 Sodium acetate- 

i - M» 

■i a 

(2! Sodium alginam, oi(ie> him 



dental grade. 

1 : io' 

> On 

iX) Sodium aluminate. 

>' 3i03 

_v> 4/ 

(4) Sodium amide 

NbC 

21 5i 

(5) Sodium azide 

NSC 

23.3/ 

(6) Sodium bicarbonate. 

323 2403 

28.42 

(7) Sodium bi-sulphite. 

'23.1702 

28.37 

l8) Sodium carbonate, fused blocks 

. 523.2419 

28 42 

1 9) Sodium citrate. 

NSC 

N, 16 

(10) Sodium formate. 

wSC 

2-/N4 

(1!) Sodium hexametjphosphate. 

NSC 

28 4“' 

(12) Sodium hydrosulplute. 

523.1703 

2S.3? 

(13) Sodium iodide. 

NSC 

28.34 

(14) Sodium lauryl sulphate. 

NSC 

14.02 

(15) Sodium metabisuiphate. 

NSC 

28.42 

(16) Sodium moly bdatc. 

.'25.310b 

28.47 

(17) Sodium nitrate. 

>23.2101 

28 3‘) 

(18) Sodium nitrne 

NSC 

28 39 

(19) Sodiumorthosme.de 

NSC 

2' 45 

(20) Sodium perborate. 

NSC 

28 46 

(21) Sodium phosphate (mono ana 



di). 

513.2217 

.8.4*. 

(22) Sodium sesquisihc.ite. 

NSC 

28.4> 

(23) Sodium silicate (sodium n,*.E„ 



silicate). 

v '3.2/01 

23 15 

(24) Sodium Mlico Outbid*, 

52'* ilNI 

28.24 

(25) Sodium .ulphi k 

*. i. i.'iii 

la 55 

<26) Sodium •.uiphise, ait glide. 

3 . 1/04 

2>..< 7 

<27) Sodium i ifi*sulpnjie thy-o-m- 



phite .if ;od ii 

• t.i 

i 

5’3' Sodium tdlrHulj. i ,* tta 

.. 

1 


<w-av*. 2 cco 

Code Code 

{29) Sodium dichromate. 523.3105 28.41 

150) Sodium Gold cyanide — ~ 

(31) Sodium borate - — 

385. Sodium Metal 

386. Sorbitol. 312.1915 29.04 

387. Soya a, r eluding ptuuaj*, 

•iccond^tj ternary ji>J quaut at, ,4 iv Vie 

3s6 Stouv "> 

uj Cinu-itj./uiuiea and h.tppluiei, Ob/ *100 71.03 
semi p.ecious ana pteeious 607,3101 71.02 

stones, pearls (real or cultured) 667.2900 71.02 
and rough diamods; and 667.1004 71.01 

ihj synthetic stones (oihci than 


synthetic ruby, umvorked), 


finished/unworked. 


iSclC 

I'M) 

389. Siralyl acetate (Phenyl 
carbaryl acetate). 

methy 1 

NsC 

N.jC 

390. Sirontium carbonate 


321 2214 

28,39 

391 Strontium nitrate. 


NSC 

28.38 

592 Styphenic acid. 


NSC 

29-07 

393. Styrenated phenols. 


NSC 

NSC 

394. Sub-merged arc welding duvet. 

NSC 

38 13 

X95. Succinates other than 
succinate. 

Succinyi 

NSC 

29.15 

396. Sulfamic acid. 


NSC 

28 13 

397 Sulphaduuine. 


541.7905 

29 3o 

398 St lphameth.uolc 


NSC 

29 36 

199. Sulpbaniiic acid 


514 6074 

29.22 

400. Sulphaphenazole 


NSC 

29.36 

401. Sulphate of alumina (it 
iron fret). 

riic and 

523.1901 

28.33 

U>2, Suipiiathiazole. 


i.’. 7904 

2 9 3u 

4u3. SuJplian.ittd, mlpiue.J'atiuistfu/Ciilui 



nated products oi neats 
cod liver oil and sperm oil 

401. SyiitLttiu u*n exebangej-. 
change re-mis only. 

foot oil. 

cation ex- 

NSC 

NSC 

405, i annic acid 


NSC 

32.02 

406 Te.p.'iiri .ease 


513 nu 

29.14 

4 !1 jrr 11 * i 


M • JIKlt 

79 

»<;8 iettiiiry bury taiceho 1 


Nvc 

19 y. 



[unrl— 1 ] 


•tftt tt TT'srrtJ ijpfrer-fT 


153 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A —Contd 


11C Ret. 2 CCC A 



Codr 

Codr 

409. Testosterone, testosterone proplo- 
irate, testosterone velenite and leslo 
i,it rone upii.tii.iio 

s>l 

X o 19 

410. Tetramlsole Hydrochloride, 

NSC 

NSC 

41!. Theophylline elhanonte of plpi-ra- 
zinc. 

NSC 

NSC 

412. Thiacetazone. 

NSC 

29.31 

413. Thorium compounds (thorium 

nitrate and thorium oxide). 

524,9200 

28.52 

414. Tobacco-unamanufactnred/filter. 

121.1 

24.01 

415. Transformer oil (non Inflammable/ 
synthetic). 

NSC 

27.10 

416. Trl-calcium phosphate. 

523.2213 

28.40 

417. Tricholine Citrate. 

— 

— 

418. Trichlorobenzene. 

NSC 

29 07 

419. Tricboloroethylene. 

— 

— 

420. 1 ; 7 : 7 Trimethyl bicyclo [2, 2, 1] 

-2 Heptanone and/orl : 7 : 7 Heptonc 

NSC 

NSC 

421. Triple superphosphate (Industrial 
grade). 

562.2200 

31.03 

422. Trisodlurn phosphate 

523,2215 

28.40 

423. Ultramarine blue. 

NSC 

30.07 

424. Undecylcnlc acid. 

513.7924 

29.140 

425. Uninkcd nylon ribbon tapo from 
1/2” to 18-1/4" both ends electrically 
welded required for the manufacture 
of Typewritor/Computer ribbons. 

759.1100 

84.55 

426. Vanadium pontoxide/Vanadlum 

pentoxide Catalyst. 

NSC 

28.28 

427. Vetiver acetate. 

NSC 

29.14 

428. Vetiver oil. 

551 3037 

33 01 

429. Viscose filament yarn 600 denier 
and above, including vbcosc tyre 
yam. 

651.7119 

51,01 

430. Vitamin B-12. 

541.1015 

29.38 

431. Waxed paper. 

641 8911 

48.07D 

442. Wood preservatives of the type of 
solignum and gold chloride. 

NSC 

NSC 

433. X-ray films (medical) excluding the 
following types :— 

682.2101 

37.01 

(1) Cine angiographic films. 

NSC 

NSC 

(2) Copying films. 

NSC 

NSC 

(3) Denial films. 

NSC 

NSC 

(4) Films for use without 
screens. 

NSC 

NSC 

(5) 1 o-dose mammogrnphlc films 

NSC 

NSr 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCA 


Code 

Codi 

CS) Mass miniature films 

NSC 

NSC 

< t ) 14 i.'m n \iuno a, i.l m-us,il 
type fi't Juplii, ding o) nuns 

(8) Personal monitoring films. 

K.c 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

(9) Special types of films used for 
serial changers. 

NSC 

NSC 

434. Yara Yara (beta napthol methyl 
ether). 

NSC 

29.03 

435. Yohimbine hydrochloride. 

NSU 

29.42 

436. Yttrium concentrates. 

278.9908 

25.32 

437. Zinc chloride. 

NSC 

28.30 

438. Zinc oxide. 

522 4101 

28,19 

439. Zinc stoarato 

NSC 

NSC 

440, Zinc sulphate 



441. Zinc undecylenalo. 

NSC 

NSC 

Engineering and allied Items : 



442. AAC/ACSR conductors and alumi¬ 
nium busbars. 

NSC 

85.19 

443. A.C. starters upto 660 Volts ratings 
and upto 250 AMP (for L.T. appli¬ 
cation). 

778.3106 

85.08 

444. Actuators for valves. 

NSC 

84.61 

445. Agricultural steel discs. 

NSC 

73.40 

446. Air and gas compressors. 

743.1001 

84.11 

447. All types of electrical lighting fittings, 
including chokes, starters and reflec¬ 
tors. 

771.2201 

85.01 

448. Alternators upto 2000 K.V.A, 

NSC 

85.01 

449. Aluminium collapsible tubes, 
rigid cans and containers. 

684.2500 

76.06 

450. AsSembllcs/Sub-assemblles, the 
following :— 



(1) Electric motor—all types not 
elsewhere specified. 

716.01 

85.01A 

(2) Cable reeling drum. 

NSC 

NSC 

(3) Compressors all types. 

743.1001 

84.11 

(4) Cold Box/Chamber. 

NSC 

NSC 

(5) Column as required in industrial 
machinery including chemical 
and air-separatioD plant. NSC 

NSC 

(6) Cooling coils and tube bundles. 

NSC 

NSC 

(7) Complete engines including ex¬ 
pansion engines. 

NSC 

NSC 

(8) Circuit breakers 

NSC 

85.19 



134 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Pary I 

APPENDIX i PAllt-A— Gontd. 


TEC Bn. 2 CCCN 



Code 

Cod'* 

(9) Turbines, all type* 

719.8200 

84.07 

(10) Furnaces, ovens & Ilia', ail 
types in sires. 

741.3201 

84.14 

(11) Ball and roller grinding mills. 

737.2100 

84.44 

(12) Evaporators. 

NSC 

NSC 

(13) Rope drum assembly. 

NSC 

84 22 

(14) Mechanical hoist drives and 
boom hoist. 

NSC 

84.22 

(15) Trolly assembly. 

NSC 

NSC 

(16) Hydraulic control Assembly. 

NSC 

NSC 

(17) Heat-Exchangir 


— 

(18) Pressure Vessel* 

— 

— 

(19) Drier* 

— 

— 

(20) Dhhed Endi 

— 

— 

l. Automotive components, the follov- 
Ingi— 

(1) Fan*. 

773.7203 

83.06 

(2) Cables for speedometers and 
taxi meters. 

NSC 

NSC 

(3) Cut outs and regulator* 

773.7901 

83.06 

(4) Filters/oleancr assembly—air 
fuel or lubricating oil. 

334.3101 

84.18 

(5) Electric horns and components 
there of except tungsten disc 
and tungsten contacts. 

778.3202 

83,09 

(6) Hub caps. 

NSC 

NSC 

(7) Reflectors Including rear view 
mirrors. 

664.8 

70.09 

(8) Shackles, shaakie pins, U-bolt», 
centre bolts clip and pressure 
plates (1. e. those used on the 
leaf string assemblies exclud¬ 
ing those of clutch assemblies) 

. 699.32 

73.34 

(9) Sflenoers or mufflers,tailpipes 
and extensions thereof. 

NSC 

NSC 

(10) Silent channels. 

NSC 

NSC 

(11) Sparkplugs excluding aviation 
spark plugs. 

778,3103 

83.08 

(13) Taxi fare meters. 

873.2002 

90.27 


433. Ball, cylindrical, taper, ipherlcal 
and other roller bearings Including 
components thereof having internal 
dla. 10 mm to 83 mm and 
needle roller bearings, needle bushel 
and needle cages and component! 


iTC &n. 2 
Code 

thereof having Internal dia. 8 mm to 
S3 mm excluding the foil owing: 749.1 


(11. Hearings, equivalent t:t ^Kl J 
Nos. NU-206. NU-2I2, NU- 
214, NUP-309 N. NUP-310 
N, NJ-310, NJ-311, NJ-313. 
SKF No. 309397, 39565 E. 
3205, 362123 5120J, 51203, 

Clutch release bearing No. 05 
3151049 001, SKF 16007, SKP 
1203, 4303 ANR TN 9, 
612645 E, NA-44143/44363 
D. T-1260, RNU-306, BN- 
15759, SKF 8211, SKF 1308, 
UM-7207-B-101, UM-1306-B- 
104, Nippon Seiko bearing 
No. 35 TMK 29 (3/C330309, 
T7MT-126 (Axial Roller Bear¬ 
ing), FAO-CD 521618, CD- 
521618 T, FAG 3309 DAM A, 
STEYR-1933211 SKF NU- 
2305 GJ 2, SKF N 309 CM 
86, NJ-2211 CAM-6, SKF 
K-492A CUP. K-497-Cone. 
495/493, 39J/S/394 AS, 

43125/43312, 02473/02420, 

212047/212010, 51108 XN6153 
V3, TIM T-126, TIM T- 
77W, SFK 210-ZZ NR, 
Polard ZZ 155.' Hoffmann 
6160K/2 NSR 40 Y 9886 D 
14, Pollard MJ 1.1/8 37425/ 
37625. 


(II) Super precision bearings viz. 
P-6 P-2 or ABEC-5 to 

ABEC-9 for machine tori 
Industry are excluded. 


433. Battery eliminator!. 

NSC 

434. Bicycle dynamo 

sots Including 

lamps. 

785.3909 

455. Bloyclc tyres/tubes 

625.4001, 


4002 


456. Bimetal/trimetal multimetal bearings 
and bushes including engine 
bearings ard bushes, semifinished/ 



under-sized/oversized. 

NSC 

457. 

Binocular heads, other than stero- 
zoom type. 

871.0102 

458. Brake cables and control cables. 

NSC 

459. 

Brass and bronze electrodes rods/ 
wires. 

682.2112 


460. Bright steel bars/rounds/rods/squares 
Flats/hexagons/Octagons and other 
profiles of stecl/carbon and alloy 
steel including free cutting quality 
and Stainless/heat resisting steel 

in all grades. 673.24 

461. Bright steel rounds of non-cobalt 
bearing high speed steel 6 mm to 

40 mm dia in any finish. NSC 


Sec. 1] 

cccs 

Code 

84.62 


NSC 

87.12 

40.11 

84.63 

90.05 

NSC 

74.03 

i . 15 


73.15 



['PTT I - -TT l] 


*t vtsttw arcTOFiir 


135 


APPBNDIX 3 P K*1-A~Conid 


\TCRet.l CCCN 
Code Code 

462. Cable* ami wheat— 

(a) A!i types of eleUrlcat cablw 
and wires for ratings upto owl 
Including 132 KV but exclud¬ 
ing flat/flat flexible cables 
other than those for T.v. 

antenna connections. 273 1 85 2? 

(b) Tele-communication cables 
and wires all types Including 

telephone cables and cordages. 773 1 83.23 


463. Cadmium metal. 

— 

— 

464. Carbon steel flanges discs, of all 
sizes upto 1000 mm and rings of all 
sires upto 1500 mm nominal bore 
and O D, 2000 mm. 

NSC 

NSC 

463. Cast Iron and cast stool rolls (finish¬ 
ed weight per roll upto 30 tonnes), 
for industrial use. 

NSC 

73.40 

466. Cast iron spun pipes upto V50 mm 
dia. 

678.1 

73.17 

467. Centrifugal pumps, upto 100mm x 
100mm size. 

742.2001 

84.10 

468. Cold rolled hard drawn phosphor 
bronze rods upto 50 mm dla/sq. 

682.2122 

74.04 

469. Components of air conditioning 
and refrigeration equipment other 
than those specified In Appendix 6 
List 8 Part—f. 

741.49/ 
741 3 

84 12/ 
.13 

470. Components of photo-copying 
machines excluding electronic 
components. 

NSC 

NSC 

471. Components of Camera (other than 
video camera and Cinematographic 
camera), tho following i i— 



1. Main body/case back cover 

NSC 

90 07 

2. Shutter system. 

NSC 

90.02 

i. Lens system. 

NSC 

90.02 

4. View finder. 

NSC 

90.07 

3. Film transport system. 

NSC 

90.07 

6. Range finder. 

NSC 

90.14 

472. Components of domestic vacuum 
flasks. 

NSC 

NSC 

473. Components of footwear exclud¬ 
ing unit soles. 

NSC 

NSC 

474. Components of thermostats for 
air-conditioning and refrigeration 
application, tho following i— 



(f) Bellow assembly 

NSC 

83.08 

(It) Switch assembly. 

NSC 

83.19 

(Hi) Sheet metal components 

NSC 

NSC 

(M Sheet metal casings 

NSC 

NSC 


ITC Rev, 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

413 Components of refrfgeralion/nir- 
^otidttioninR compressors, the 
following • 


(1) Ciack theft and Its asscmblj 

NSC 

84 63 

(li) Connecting rods and 
assembly. 

Ilfi 

NSC 

84 63 

(Ill) Cylinder. 


NSC 

84.11 

(fr) Piston 


NSC 

84.11 

fv) compressor body shell/ 

housing and compressor cast¬ 
ing/housing top and bottom. 

NSC 

84 11 


476. Components of time-pieces (other 
than those in Appendix 6 List 8 
part—I) and clocks (excluding 
electronic components). 885.1400 NSC 

471 Components of overload protec¬ 
tion relays for air-conditioning and 
refrigeration application, the follow¬ 
ing t— 



(/) Bimetallic dlsc. 

NSC 

NSC 


(II) Sheet metal components. 

NSC 

NSC 


(Ill) Plastic moulding case* and 
components. 

NSC 

NSC 


(/») Power eloment/asaembly. 

NSC 

NSC 


(r) Flange*. 

NSC 

85.19 


(vl) Contact platos 

NSC 

85.19 

478. Component* of vacuum cleaner*/ 
icrubber*. 

— 

— 

479 

Component* of solenoid valves for 
air-conditioning and refrigeration 
application, the following t— 




(/) Shoet metal components 

NSC 

NSC 


(II) Coils/colls assembly. 

NSC 

NSC 


(///) Switch assembly 

NSC 

85.19 


(fv) Outer Casing/press components. NSC 

NSC 

480. Component* of expansion valves 
for air-conditioning and refrigera¬ 
tion application, the following :— 




(/) Valve housing. 

NSC 

84.61 


(II) Spindles 

NSC 

84 61 


(Hi) Stainers 

NSC 

84.18 


(lv) Bellow assembly 1 

NSC 

83.08 

481 

Components of electric fans 

NSC 

NSC 

483 

Component* of Jute Mill Machinery 

724 4903 

NSC 



m 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORD r NARY [Part T—Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Corud. 


ITC Rev 2 CCC A 
C 4* Ci i /* 

181 Components of pu-wve > • • 


and safety cut-c ? ft t 
ditkming tnl reH v 3i .i V 

tion, the following - 



(i) Bellow assembly. 

n 

;:.y‘ 

(li) Contact housing 

use 

35 19 

(ft) Springs. 

> tr 

NSC 

(fv) Terminal controls. 

'EC 

.85.iy 

(v) Heat thermostats for Jomest’o 
appliances. 

’Nr 

90 ? 4 

484. Compressors of retrieent’Cv -nd 
air-conditioning—all types. 

71 .1001 

^ t. 1; 

485 Condensors. 

->7; gj 

85,18 

486. Condenser bushings upto 74* KV 
rating. 

— 


487. Contactors of all ratings. 

NSC 

35.19 

488. Copper/aluminium bimetal strips. 

63? 2202 

NS J 


489.(i) Copper and copper alloy (all types 
of 'alloy like cupro-nickel, alumi¬ 
nium brass, aluminium bronze) 
in the form of pipes tubes and hollow 
section excluding capillary tubes 
and finned copper. 

(li) Copper and copper alloy plates and 
sheets (less than 1200 mm width), 
strips and fods of thickness 0.06mm 
and above and manganin strips for 
use in electrical instruments with 


thickness not more than 2.5 mm. 

632.2101 

7-!.0’> 

490. Copper and copper alloys—solid 
sections. 



491. Co |v . ■ ‘ bars/ 

b *•••.• dated, 

but excluding copper beryllium 

strips. 

NSC 

NSC 

492. Current and potential transformers, 
excluding those for medium/high 
frequency applications. 

NSC 

85.01 

493. Cylinder and cylinder heads of 
power driven pumps. 

NSC 

84 10 

494. Damping roller hoses excluding 
shrink warp sleeves for alcohol 
damping units of offset machines. 

621 0501 

40 09 

493. Diesel/gas engines upto 4000 H.P. 

713 32 

84.06 

496, Domestic sewing machines and 
components thereof 

724 3 

84 41 

497. Drill chucks/hthe chucks 

77S 8102 

S4 48 



ITC Rev 2 

Code 

CCCN 

Code 

4'>t> 'ry cells "batteries based 'Mi- 
t 15 oxide and 1 t n 

t< t 

■ k 1102 

85.03 

499. fc'aetric L’mp tup 1 . 

- 

— 

500. Electric motors totally enclosed fan 
cooled and screen protected, squirrel 
cage upto 100 HP other than with 
insulation class F and H including 
grated types 

716 21 85 018 

501. Electric resistance (nickel-chro¬ 
mium based) wires, wire rods, rods 
and strips. 

NSC 

NSC 

502. Eiectrodeposited copper foil 0 f 
thickness 0.017 mm and aboxe. 



503. Flectroformed nickel screens 

NSC 

NSC 

504 Fiame’Vd'mp“r enamelled copper/ 

■ •■■■m i > t li ' » wires, upto 
SV, _ , 1 t self bondi' i/self 

soldering/msulation type ot cl'-sli. 

68? 2101/ 
684.7119 
& 

771 1001 

74.03 

85.23 

505. Expanded metal made of Iron/steel. 

693 5111 

73.28 

506. Expansion jomts/bellows/connee- 
tors for Etiesel locomotives 

— 

—* 

507. Eye-Picces of all types with mount¬ 
ings except Zoom eye-pieces, wide 
field eye-pieces and stereo objectives 
for microscopes. 

83A.12 

90.02 

508. Fan bJts 

NSC 

NSC 

509. Feed water heaters. 

775.8200 

85.12 

510. Finned Copper and copper-Nickel 
tubes. 

6S2.25 

74.07 

511. Fluid couplings upto 400 HP. 

NSC 

NSC 

512. Forged shafts of dia 250 mm and 
above. 

749.3005 

84.63 

513. Fractional horse power electnc 
motors excluding micro motors, 
brake motors, stepper motors upto 
rating riot more than 20 watts. 

NSC 

85.01 

514. Fuses—LT and HRC-except those 
suitable for diodes and thyristors. 

NbC 

85 19 

515. Grab Buckets. 

- 

-■ 

516. Halogen lamps and infraared lamps. 

— 

— 

517. Hardware and pipe fittings made of 
copper, zinc, aluminium and alloys 
thereof. 

NSC 

NSC 

518. Heating elements all sorts for 
domestic appliances. 

775.82 

85,12 

519. Heat exchangers including ih; follow 
ing 

NSC 

84,17 


(/) Columns. 

(;/') Storage Tanks, 
(ft) Dryers. 


cfv) Evaporators 




[wot I—5TT l] 




137 


■ GT L INDIA 3 PAK1-A— Coma. 


rrc 

CoJr 
NSC 


CCCJV 

CJ.' 


510. Hose assemblies with tnC mclai 

fitting,. NSC NSC 

5?]. Hypodermic syringes needles, other 
Chan for dentnl/special medical 
application. 872.021t' 90. IT 

522. Impellers of power driven pumps. NSC 54 1(1 

323. Industrial valves, the following 

(I) Gate, globe and check valves 

of cast Iron. 749.2003 84.61 

(If) Gate, globe and check valve 
of alloy steel upto 200mm size 
and upto pressure class 600. 

Gate globe and check valves 

of forged carbon steel upto 749.2003 84.61 

30 mm size and upto pressure 

class 800. Gate valve of 

carbon steel upto 600 mm size 

and upto pressure class 400/ 

600. Globe valve of carbon 
steel upto 200 mm size and 
pressure class 300. 

(Ill) Plug valve upto 600 mm size. NSC 84.61 

(iv) Ball valve upto pressure class 

600 and upto size 130 mm; NSC 84,61 

(v) Butterfly valve upto300 mm size 

J24. Insulators and components thoreof 
for 

(/) Insulators and Components 
thereof for transmission lines 
upto and including 420 KV.’ NSC," 83.25 

(ii) InsulRtois for transformers, 
switchgears and other elec¬ 
trical equipments of rating up¬ 
to and including 245 KV. 


Sj). bon/alloy Iron powder. 



547 

SS6. Iron and Steel casting.' l a hiding 
rought/ptoof machined. 




327. Isolating switches and Isolators, 
off load and on load types, upto 
220 KV rating. 

772.1 

83.19 

548. 

328. Jewels for instruments. 

NSC 

NSC 

329. Jewels (flnlshed/scmlflnishcd) for 
watches, time-pieces, and clocks 
when imported alone. 

NSC 

NSC 

549. 

550. 

530. Lamps/bulbs—all types (excluding 
p refocussed types and automobile 
head lamps)—or rating below 24 
volts. 

778.2 

85.20 


5)1, Lead acid storage batteriei. 

778.1201 

85.04 

551 

332 Lciri-In-wirw for GLS, in!n!t‘vmt* 
and fluorescent tubes. 



532. 

33 3 Lighting arrestor* upto 220 KV 
rating. 

534. Limit switches. 

772.1021 

NSC 

33.19 

85.19 

553 


/rC Rer 
Code 

533. to) Line pipes and tubes ERW 
variety, upto 508 mm (exclud¬ 
ing boiler quality). NSC 

(b) Boiler tubes, ERW variety j 

8 mm to 80 mm O.D. —< 

536. Locks suitcase fittings and metal 
fittings (other than stainless steel 
fittings) including spectacle hinges. 699.1101 


537. Mechanical seals excluding those 
required for open type air-condi- 
ditioning refrigeration compressors. NSC 

538. Mercury vapour lamps. 778.220? 

539. Metal caps, clips and barrels for 
pens (Including ball point pen), pen 
nibs (for handwriting) and ball 

points refills. 895.21/22 


540. Metal clad swltchcs/swltch fuse 

units/fuse switch units—all typos. NSC 

541. Mild steel nuts and bolts. 694.0201 

542. Mild steel wood screws/machine 

screws. 694.0213 

543. Miniature circuit breakers. NSC 

544. Molybdenum wire rods and wires 

15 mm dia and below. 699.9201 

543. Moulds for tyres, tubes, bladders, 

air bags and flap for tyre industry. NSC 

546. Nails, tacks, staples and staple pins, 
hook nails, corrugated nails, spikea 
clamps, studs, spikes drawing pins 
of Iron and steel and Boot and Shoe 
grindery. 694 


iron based super-alloys, (including 
lnconels, inooloys, nomonics, bast- 
alloys and udimets) in the form of 
ingots, blooms, billets, slabs, bars, 
rounds, rods wires, plates, shoets 
and strips. 


633 


Nickel Cadmium batteries 
components, parts thereof. 


and 


549. Objectives upto magnification X-45. NSC 


current rating of 300A or less and 
rated service voltage of 73 KV or 
less for application to transformers 
with star or delta or single phase 
connection. 


Permanent magnets (all types) 
excluding those by pick-up catridge 
and DC micro motor manufactures 


25 HP. 


NSC 

NSC 

V1J.P 


Phosphor bronze/Tambac brass 

wires, 30 SWG and thicker. 682.2123 


58 GI/85—10. 


2 CCCS 
Cod' 

73.18 

83.01/ 

83 

NSC 

85.20 

98.03/ 

.04 

85.19 

73.32 

73.32 

85.19 

81.02 

NSC ’ 

73.31/ 

.32 


75.01 

.02 

90.02 


85.01 

83.02 
84.06 
74. 03 



138 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Contd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


554. Photographic lens 180 mm; f/4,5, 
excluding Zoom lens. 

884.1201 

90.02 

555. Photovoltaic Cells panels/modules. 

NSC 

85,21 

556. Pneumatic time delay units. 

NSC 

85.19 

557. Pre-heater. 

NSC 

NSC 

558. Pressure Vessels and multi-wail and 
multi layer vessels. 

NSC 

73.25 

559. Power and distribution trans¬ 

formers other than cast coil recti- 
flers/cxcltution transformers. 

NSC 

85.01 

560. Power capacitors—all types, ex¬ 
cluding those for medium/high fre¬ 
quency applications, high voltage 
application, commutating and filter 
capacitors 

778.8502 

85.18 

561. Push button switches excluding 
lighted push button switches. 
Printed circuit board mounting 
multi-station push-push or inter¬ 
locking types. 

772.1016 

85.19 

562. Rayon spinning pots. 

NSC 

84.38 

563. Reflectors for Bicycles and auto¬ 
mobiles. 

785.39 

87.12 

564. Reformer tubes and assemblies. 

NSC 

NSC 

565. Reformer type assembly and fitt¬ 
ings. 

NSC 

NSC 

566- Rivets other than bifurcated and 
tubular. 

694.0221 

73.32 

567. 'Rollon and pilfer proof caps. 

NSC 

83.13 

368. Rubber hoses. 

621.0509 

40.09 

569. ‘S’ nickel. 

683.1021 

75.01 

570. Scale reading device (optical read¬ 
out). 

NSC 

NSC 

571. (a) Seamless stainless steel pipes 
and tubes 4.5 mm to 220 mm 
OD and 0.5 mm to 10 min wall 
thickness. 

678.2 

73.18 

(6) Welded stainless steel pipes and 
tubes including various sec¬ 
tions, like U tubes of 4 mm to 
600 mm OD wilh wall thickness 
of 0.05 mm to 7 mm 

699.7906 

73.40 


(c) Seamless carbon stool tubes/ 
casings hollows/drill tubes and 
pipes aud blanks thereof and 
any other cylindrical hollow 
shaped carbon steel in both 
hot/cold finished in wall thick¬ 
ness of 3 tnm to 40 mm in sizes 
31 mm to 220 mm outside dia¬ 
meter, excluding ready to hone 
tubes required by hydraulic 
cylinder manufacturers, 678.21 73.18 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(d) Seamless alloy steol tubes/ 
casings/hollows drill tubes and 
pipes and blanks thereof and 
any other cylindrical hollow 
shaped steel in both hot/cold 
finished in sEes 40 mm to 
159 mm O.D. excluding those 
required by power boilers and 
bail bearing manufacturers. 678.22/ 73.18 

678.2300/ 

678.2400/ 

678.2500 


(e) Seamless alloy steel tubes of 
composition equivalon to SAB 
52100 and in the size range of 
45 mm to 48 mm outer dia. 
and 70 mm to 86 mm. outer 
dia. 

NSC 

28.04 

572. Selenium metal (including powder 
form). 

522.1206 

28.04 

573. Sheet glass. 

664.7001 

70.08 

574.A Soft or high purity Iron in the 
form of ingots billets, bars , rods, 

. wires, sheets and strips other than 
pure iron (unwrought form) for 
remelting purposes. 

672.51 

73.07 

574.B Solder wires. 

— 

— 

575. Spectacle frames and components 
thereof including fronts and sides. 

884.2 

90.03 

576. Spoke/nlpples/tyros-tubes valves, for 
bicycles. 

785.39011 

to 

785.3909J 

1 87.12/ 
>84.61 

577. Static convcrtors/invertors. 

771.2101 

85.01 

578. Sterilizers. 

741.6011 

84.17 

579. Steel forgings all kinds. 

679.3 

73.40 

580. Steel tubing : — 

(0 brazed, double walled, copper 
coated 3 mm to 10 mm OD and 
wall thickness 0.71 nun. 

NSC 

73.18 

(//) brazed double walled, copper 
coated 3 mm to 7.94 mm OD 
of wall thickness 0.89 mm. 

NSC 

NSC 

581. Steel and Iron castings including 
finish machined for cement industry 



582 Surgical blades. 

NSC 

90.17 

583 Switchboard and control panels 
and dntributi m fuse b acids and 
parts therco,. 

772.1015 

85.19 

584. Thrust ball bearings upto 60 mm 
internal bore dia, including com¬ 
ponents thereof, the following :— 

NSC 

84.62 


SKF Nos. 51102, 51103, 51104, 

51105, 51106, 51107, 51107X, 51108, 

51109, 51110, 51111, 51112, 51202, 

51203, 51204, 51205, 51206, 51207, 

51208. 51209, 51210, 51211, 51212, 

52204, 52205, 52206, 52306, AETNA 
No. A2013 (equivalent to JP 1054) 
and AETNA No. A2256 (equivalent 
to 1X3/PR/I 08). 

585. Timer and time delay relay all cate¬ 
gories including motorised. NSC 85,19 




Omr I—wr i] 


ttnrr wt traw: «mnjTT>iT 


139 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Contd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN Code 
Code 


586. Tin containers and components 
thereof. 

NSC 

NSC 

587. Titanium anodes. 

689.9922 

81.04 

588. Titanium baskets. 

NSC 

81.04 

589. Titanium metal, titanium products 
and titanium alloys in any form 
Including titanium grids, frames, 
rings, sleeves and any other fabri¬ 
cated structures and components 
thereof other than titanium sponge. 
Titanium and titanium alloy pipes, 
tubes and castings. 

689.9922 

81.04 

590. Tools, the following :— 



(1) All types of coated abrasives 
othor than coated belts. 

NSC 

NSC 

(2) Bench vices. 

NSC 

NSC 

(3) Broaches. 

NSC 

84.48 

(4) Cable Boron Nitride tools. 

NSC 

NSC 

(5) Diamond wire drawing dies. 

695.4112 

NSC 

(6) Diamond mining/coring drill 
bits Including oil field drilling/ 
coring bits. 

695.4123 

82.05 

(7) Engineers’ steel flies and rasps, 
o(hor than Jeweller’s files and 
needle files. 

695.3300 

82.03 

(8) Forged hand tools—spanners, 
wrenches, sockets, screw 

drivers, hammers, pliers, chain 
dongs, punches, chisels, alien 
wrohches, C. clamps. 

695.32 

82.03 

(9) Gear hobs : 0.3 to 17 module 
excluding gear hobs and gear 
cutters required in the manu¬ 
facture of watches, clocks and 
time-pieces. 

NSC 

84.48 

(10) Gear shaper cutters : 1 to 10 
modulo excluding gear hobs 
and gear cutters required in the 
manufacture of watches, clocks 
and time-pieces. 

NSC 

84.48 

(11) Grinding wheels (other than 
those in Appendix 6 List 8 
Part-I 

663.1 

68.04 

(12) HSS twist drills above 0.2 mm 
dla and other types of HSS 
drills. 

778.4001 

85.05 

(13) HSS and tungsten carbide 
tipped milling cutters and End 
mills 

736.12 

84.45 

(14) HSS tool bits. 

NSC 

NSC 

(15) Hand and machine operated 
hacksaw blades. 

695.1/ 

695.3 

82.01/ 

.02 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(16) Industrial machine knives, 
shear blades other than those 
mentioned in Appendix-6 

list 8 PRrt—I 695.3104 84.46/ 

84.57 

(17) Industrial diamond tools, 
single point dressers, wheels 

ana glass cutters. 728.11/ — 

728.41 

(18) Involute type gear cutters ex¬ 
cluding bevel gear cutting tools 
and gear hobs and gear cutters 
required in the manufacture of 



watches, clocks and time-pieces. 736.12 

84.45 


(19) Metal and wood working band 
saw blades, other than bi¬ 
metallic band saw blades. 

695.31 

82.02 


(20) Reamers above 1.2 mm dia. 
othor than adjustable and ex¬ 
panding type. 

695.4124 

82.05 


(21) Slitting saws 1 mm and above. 

NSC" 

82.02 


(22) Solid tungsten Carbide twist 
drills. 

745.1102 

84.49 


(23) T.C. wire, tube and bar draw¬ 
ing dies, mbs, pallets and head¬ 
ing dies. 

695.4112 

82.05 


(24) Threading taps 1.6 mm dia. 
and above. . 

NSC 

NSC 


(25) Tricone rock roller bits of 
sizes 159 mm. 216 mm. 251 mm. 
311 mm. and 445 mm. 

NSC 

NSC 


(26) Tungsten carbide tips, tipped 
tools, and indexable tools. 

695.4126/ 82.07 
.4301 


(27) Wood working saws and 
knives. 

NSC 

NSC 

591. 

Transmission lino hardware. 

— 

— 

592. 

(/) Tungsten filaments. 

— 

— 


(11) Tungsten filament wire of 
0.8 mm and below dia. 

- 

— 

593. 

Tube type heat exchanger of mild 
steel etc. for vailed heat transfer 
applications. 

NSC 

NSC 

594. 

Tyre tube valves, valve cores, valve 
cap and accessories for heavy duty 
vehicles. 

-- 

— 

595. Umbrella ribs and components 
thereof (including Cloth/Cover), 

899.4903 

66.03 

596- 

V. Belt/belting Including reinforced 
with synthetic fibre. 

NSC 

NSC 

597. Vollage regulators and stabilisers. 

775.7901 

85.06 

598. Watch cases made of brass costing 
Rs. 60 or less per dozen cif. 

885.1400 

91.09 






140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Par t I—Sec. H 


APPENDIX A PAH I A -Conrd 


ITC Rev . <X'C.\ 
Cade Cadi 

399. Watch dial crystals without tension 
ring and winding knobs, for 
waterproof type watch cases when 
Imported separately and as a part 
of watch assembly or sulvassemmy. 883,1400 91.09 


600- Wire cloth/sieve cloth upto and 
Including fineness of 100 niesh ex¬ 
cluding endless trlpple wire mesh ot 
65/195 or finer, 

601- (a) Welded steel link chains and 

components thereof for hoist¬ 
ing, anchoring, etc. upto 
70 mm size. 

(h) Welded steel link chains & 
components thereof for mining 


602. Wrist watch dials costing not more 
than Rh, 48 per dozen (c.T.t.). 

603. X-ray tubes medical diagnostic type 
of rating from 15 MA to 500 M.A. 

604. Zinc dust/grannulations 

605. Zinc callots. 


606- Air Conditioning and Refrigeration 
equipment except the following c— 

(а) Absorption type refrigeration 
equipment. 

(б) Electronic air filters. 

(c) Turbo compressors and air 
cycle system for use in aircraft 
and aeroplane. 

(d) Air conditioner for crane used 
only in steel plants. 

607. Electronic Items :— 

(1) All discrete silicon semi-con¬ 
ductor devices like diodes, 
transistors, thyristors, recti¬ 
fiers, bridges, stacks, SCRs, 
Selenium rectifiers, but ex¬ 
cluding those appearing else¬ 
where in the Policy 

(2) Audio cassette without tape 
(c-o). 

(3J Video cassette without tape 
(c-o). 

(4) Audio magnetic tape in reels, 
cassettes, jumbo rolls, hub3, 
cartridges and pancakes, and 
in any other form, excluding 
35 mm and 16 mm sprocketed 
tapes. 


(5J Ceramic/magnetic cartridges 
and stylus for record players/ 
changers. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCR 
Code Code 


<d) EHT Transformers for black 
and white TV receivers above 
36 cm. 778.1 

Ceramic Discs/plates (Slivered ot 
unsilvered for ceramic capacitors). — 

(8) Carbomsed/Mctallised rod*, for 


83.01 


NSC 

73.27 

resistors. 

— 

— 

NSC 

73.29 

(9) Electrolytic capacitors of rat¬ 
ings not exceeding 63 V; with 
value upto 4700 mfd. 

778 8402 

83.18 



(10) Ferrites i— NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

73.29 

(a) Antenna rods for radio 
receiver. 

Nb 

85.21 

885.29 

91.11 

<b) Pot cores of sizes 18x11 
mm & 26 x 16 mm. 

.. 


774.2002 

90.20 

(e) Toroidal cores of type 
T-10, T-27, T-30 and T-45. 

—. 

— 

- 

— 

(d) UI/UU cores of types UU 
52 and UU 57. 

— 

— 



(11) Precalcined Ferrite Powder. 

— 

- 



(12) (0 Integrated circuits CA 
3068 and CA 920 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

(11) Integrated circuits Of the 
types; Voltage regulator 
(No. 723), operational 
amplifier (No. 741). 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

(13) Integrated circuits of the 
types :—Radio Receiver (No 
700), Audio amplifier upto 7 
watts. (No. 810); TV Sound 
IF amplifier and output stage 
(No. 1190). 





(14) Loudspeakers (cone type) 2J' 
to 12”. 

764.2002 

83.14 

776.3009 

85.21 

(15) Metal film/metal oxide film 

resistors of rating upto 2.5 watt, 
and 1000 volts. 

NSC 

85.19 

NSC 

NSC 

(16) Microphones for public address 
system. 

764.2001 

85.14 



(17) Phenolic/Phenolic based coppot 
clad laminates. 

— 

— 



(18) (/) Single sided printed circuit 
boards 

NSC 

85.19 

898.3101 

and 

898.3109 

92.12 

(II) Double tided printed cir¬ 
cuit boards with or with¬ 
out plated through hole 
(PTH). 

NSC 

83.19 

764.99 

92.13 

(19) RF/IF colls for radio and TV. 

NSC 

NSC 



[RBI I—l] 


'RTtT’PT oror: areTORW 


141 


\PPENDIX i PAR T-A-^Contd 



ITC Rev. 

2 CCCN 

(20) Sub-assemblies, modules or 
room temperature vulcanised 
sandwitches 1 made of/on 

Code 

Code 

diffused semi-conductor chips. 

(21) Tape deck mechanisms of cif 

NSC 

NSC 

value Rs. 100 or below. 

NSC 

92.11 

(22) Tantalum capacitors of voltage 



ratings 6 to 50 VDC and 
capacitance range 0.1 rnfd to 
330 mfd. 



(23) Telescopic and TV Antenna. 

NSC 

85.15 

(24) Testing and cleaning cassettes. 

(25) T.V. Picture tubes/CR TCs’ for 

NSC 

92.12 

B&W Television sets. 

(26) TV deflection coils for black 
and white picture tubes above 



36 cm size, 

(27) T.V. tuners otber than elec¬ 

NSC 

85.15 

tronic T.V. tuners. 

(28) Unit Horns. 

NSC 

85.15 

(29) Video cassettes. 

(30) Video magnetic tapes In hubs 

NSC 

92.12 

and reels 

(31) Wire wound resistors 

(32) Electronic components, tb* 

following t— 

(0 Diodes 

NSC 

92,12 

(a) Low Power, Small 
Signal OA79, OA72. 
OA90, OA95, CA2H/ 
IN251 

CT 2jj3/2R5/286,'IN 
5194/IN519S/IN5196 

NSC 

83.21 

(b) Voltage Regulator ; 

NSC 

90.28 


CAZ 3 3A 
CAZ3.6A 
CAZ3.9A 
CAZ9.1A 
CAZ 10A 
CAZ 11A 
CAZ 12A 
CAZ 13A 
CTZ 3.3A 
CTZ3.6A 
CTZ3.9A 
CTZ4.3A 
CTZ 4.7A 
CTZ 3,1 A 
CTZ UA 
CTZ 12A 

crz 1 3A 

CTZ 1H 
LIZ loA 
CTZ lftA 
CTZ 20A 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

CTZ 22A 
CTZ24A 
CTZ 27A 
CTZ 30A 
CTZ 33A 
CTZ 5.6A 
CTZ 6. 2A 
CTZ 6.8A 
CTZ 7.5A 
CTZ8.2A 
CTZ9.1A 
CTZ10A 

CAZ 30TA/IN 3529/ 

IN5256B/IN972 
CAZ 5.1A/TN3511' 

IN 5231/IN 751A 
CAZ 4.3A/IN 3509/ 

IN5229B/IN749/1N74 9A 
CAZ 5.6A/IN 3512/ 

IN 5232B/1N 752A 
CAZ 4.7A/IN 3510/ 

IN 5230B/IN 750A 
CAZ 7.5A/1N 3515/ 

IN 5236B/IN 755A 
CAZ 8.2A/1N 3516/ 

IN 5237B/1N 756A 
CAZ 16A/IN 966 1 
IN 5536/IN 4110/ 

IN 5221/BZX83C16/ 

BZX97C16 
CAZ 20A 
CAZ 6.8A/IN754A 
CAZ 15A/1N 9 5B 
CAZ 6.2A/1N 753A 
CSZ 47A, 5,1 A, 5.6A, 

6.2A, 6 8A, 7.5A, 

8.2A, 3,1 A 
IN 473 2A 
IN 4733A 
IN 4734A 

(c) Switching, 1 a)w Power NSC NSC 
CA44/1N9! 1/1N4148 
CA 52/IN 903 
CA57/1N 903A/1N4152 
CA59/IN916A 
CA/2/1N40H9 
CA74/IN3654/1N 4151 
CA77/1N3606/1N4152 
CA79/IN3731/IN449 
CT 52,57.59,72,74,77,79 

id) Switching, Special types NSC NSC 
GO-3 

(<) Diodes, High Current 
Rectifiers (5 2011A) 
oVVi- R2 
IN15,44 H 
INI '1611 
)N134Hb 
1N3998 
IN 3 9% 



142 


THE GAZETTE OF nvum : ha.ik./\ukjjiin/\ki 


[FART I—SEC. 1J 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Coritd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(/) Diodes, Silicon, Fast 
Switching, Power 
''Rectifiers. 

IN3890 

IN3891 

(//) Transistors / 776.3001 85.21 

(а) Low Power, General 

Purpose. NSC 85,21 

2N918 

2N2484 

2N869 

2N2102 

2N3866 

2N2270 

BC177A/BC178B 

BCI07A/107B/109C 

AC126 

BF115 

CK100.BEL 100P/BEL100N 
KN100/KP100 

(б) Low Power, General 

' Purpose & Switching. NSC 8^.21 
2N718A 
2N720A 
2N1613 
2N1711 

2N1890, 2N1893 

2N2218A 

2N2219A 

2N2221A 

2N2222A 

2N2369A 

2N2904A 

2N2905A 

2N2906A 

2N2907A 

2N3019 

2N3251A 

2N4033 

2N697 

2N3500 

2N3636 

2N708 

2N3439 

2N3440 

2N3501 

(c) Power (upto 50 watts) NSC 85.21 
2N3054 

ECP055/ECNO55 

ASZ15/18 

2N3375 

2N3553 

0 d) Power (above 50 watts) NSC 85.21 
2N3Q55 

2N5071/2N3772 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(e) Field effect junction 
BFW 10/11/61 

(/) Field Effect, MOS 
3N200 


(7//) Thyristors (SCR’s) NSC 85.21 

SS685 
SS688 
SS690 
SS692 
SS694 

(tv) (a) Microcircuits (IC*s) NSC 85 19 

Linear Voltage Regulator 
CA 723, 3085A, 3085B 
BMC 1002, 1012, 1030 
BMC 1005, 

CA3028A-Defferential 

Amplifier, 

CA -020A Power Amplifier 
CA-641 Operational Amplifier 
BMO-25-B-lanced Modulator 
CD 4011-Quad 2-Input NOR 
CD-4011-Quad 2-Input NAND 
CD-4012-Tripple 3-input NOR 
CD-4013-Dual ‘D‘ Flip-Flop 
CD-4030-Quad exclusive OR 
CD-4835 CMOS Shift Register 

(6) Linear, Preamplifier, Audio 
BMC 1003 

(v) Connectors NSC 85.19 

(a) Connectors, electrical, 
printed wiring board 

(1) Edge connectors. 

PC 64-231-17 
PC 131-11 

PC 211-17 

PC 121-11 

PC 213-17 

PC 113-11 

133-501-H 

133-503-H 

143-1204-H/N 

143-502-H 

143-1203-H 

143-1206-H/N 

143-1205-H/N 

(2) General purpose 
Types S: 250-A-2 and 
S: 200-A-1 

Types 143-012-01-H 
and 143-022-01-H 
Types 039 125195, 

0191252, 0192252. 



*fTf Sf^TUTT^T 


143 


[ut^t I—Ti 1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A —Could 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

Circular 

(1) Multipin with threaded 
coupling of following 
types : 

MS 3102R-I4S-5P-H 
MS 3102R-14S-5S-H 
MS 3106R-14S-5P-H 
MS 3106R-14S-5S-H 
MS 3102R-16S-1F-H 
MS-3102R-16S-1S-H 
MS 3106R-16S-1P-H 
MS 3106R-16S-1S-H 
MS 3102R-18-1P-H 
MS 3102R-18-1S-H 
MS 3106R-18-1P-H 
MS 3106R-18-1S-H 
MS 3I02R-22-14P-H 
MS 3102R-18-11P- 
fMS-H 

' MS 3106R-18-11P- 
H&S-H 

MS 3102R-14S-SP- 
HAS-H 

MS 3106R-14S-5S- 
H&P-H 

MS 3102R-22-19P- 
H&P-H 

MS 3106R-22-19S- 
H&.P-H 

MS 3102R-22-14S-F1 
MS 3106R-22-14-P-H 
MS 3106R-22-14S-H 
MS 3100R-10SL-3P-U 
MS 3100R-10SL-3S-1-I 
MS 3101R-10SL-3P-H 
MS 3101R-10SL-3S-H 
MS 3102F-10SL-3P-H 
MS 3102F-10SL-3S-H 
MS 3106F-18-IP-H 
MS 3106F-18-1S-H 
MS 3106F-22-19-P-H 
MS 3102F-22-19S-H 
MS 3106F-28-21S-H 
MS 3102F-28-21P-H 
MS 3102E-14S-7P 
MS 3102E-14S-7S 
MS 3106E-14S-7P 
MS 3106E-14S-7S 
MS 3102E-14S-6P 
MS 3102E-14S-6S 
MS 3106F-14S-6P 
MS3106P-14' 3, 

MS 31P8L-14S- IP 
MS 3108E-14S-7S 
MS 3I08E-14S-6P 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

MS 3108E-14S-6S 
MS 3101E-14-6P&S 
MS 3102E-28-UP 
MS 3102E-28-22P 
MS 3102E-18-3P 
MS 3102E-10SL-3P&S 
MS 3106E-10SI -3P&S 
MS 3108£-108L-3PdiS 
MS 3102E-16S-1P&S 
MS 3106E-16S-1P&S 
MS 3108E-28-10P 
MS 3I08E-28-10S 
MS 3108E-28-11P 
MS 3108E-28-HS 
MS 3108E-28-22P 
MS 3108E-28-22S 
MS 3102E-28-10P 
MS 3102E-28-10S 
MS 3102E-148-2P 
MS 3102E-14S-2S 
MS 3102E-22-19P&S 
MS 3106E-22-19P&S 
MS 3102E-14S-5S 

(2) Minialuie, Bayonet 
coupling of following 
type'. : 

62 Clfl-lll--t2-iP-U 
02 OB-lt.r-i:-3S-H 
62 G6-12^14-19P-H 
62 G B-l 6 F-14-19S-H 
62 GB-16F-74-61S-FT 
62GB-12C-24-41 r&S 
62 GB-16F-34-6I 
62 GB-12E-11-19P&S 
62 GB-16F-14-l9PiSS 
62 GB-16F-10-63-H 
62 GB-16F-16-26S-H 
62 GB-14E-12-3 P&S 
62 GB-16F-12-3P&S 
62 GB-14E-12-10P&S 
62 GB 16F-12-10P&S 

(c) Connectors, electtical, 
general purpose type 
SS, 5 Pin. 

(d) Connectors, electrical, 
rack and panel. 

G) Miniature, polarised 
shell ; 

17-trp'Mv : 

17-ii'l>t-M ' 

17-l023l>-h 

17-105tK)-H 



144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I-Sec. 1] 


AEPt NOi\ ? i'Hi * i 'i « 


ITC Rev 2 CCCNCiH- 
ClKfi 

17-20090-H 

17-20150-H 

17-20250-H 

17-20500-H 

3290951 

3280901 

3291551 

3281501 

3292551 

3282501 

3295051 

3285001 


(2) Other than polarised 
shell of following type . 
8 contacts, types. 26- 
183-H and 30-162-i I 
24 ton.acts types AT 
24M a id AD-2 IF 
26-139-2a P-H 
26 190-24S-H 

(e) Cot iv citrs lUdm Ftx- 
que -ey 

(1) 83-1SPN H 
83-1P 11 
83-ISM* 

F-6W 

M-GT' 

M-602 \ 

S101-LP 
5101-1 R 
0301U 
0332!1 
03C4(~f 
i > L28° 

502 9 

UG8 31 I! 

uc «;r s i 

UG-^rn i. 

UG 8 I * 

UG-62S5. 1 X 
UG XIA A l hr l 
UG 29o»tr i slCt 
M3%17 
2 4-CC9 
SIC* 

SlO t A* 

0319.. s 

wi'l <i V * 

SlOiV‘5 « • 

S!^‘ V* I 1 

wr! '>i. • 1' 

L.te .< l t * 

4'0 »P 1 
S**' Vt> \ 

8. i 

1 ) S»i • S-l'- i t ...» 

typ-s 
0l! H 
Of rttil 
Oils, o 
013211 
nji'ii 

oi;u i 

P3H> 

4l-iS> 


' C-Jier. 2 CCCh 
Coda Code 

31-3377 

31-4238 

010202 

015935 

014212 

013211 

on«>. 


iJj Series INC Type 024 
002 

St.aight plug INC 
T„y pe-020101 
square Pane! Socket 
TNG, Type-023001 

(4) Series N, following 
types : 

HN080102 

HN083010 

HN080304 


1 >, Set its SM A, ioIIow 
mg types 
P 4C~0 
P 4001 
P 4040 
P4C**0 


ti s ou lectors Ai J>s 
! • «K>ueOv V 
164-13! Ii 
164-229-H 
U UG/UHCL 
U-N« UHt L 


(vi) Rel ys t X2 10)4 82 9 


. 1 ) ysi'Tiiture, fitur-t 
cslly sealed T*pa HI, 
J»Pr>T, Cu.-ffi, Rat f 
I n., 1 , , X A *i' 23 V de. 

1 'A <** i 15 \ «, Co*’ 
% nPagt 12 \ rr 12t ‘ 

V It 


i*irn ft stlii 1,4. 
horme'tcalH -es'od 

tedowt J iyp i i 


* , tPGt -I ai set.* 
Ns t h ;*ii 9 »A a* 355 

V uc i ■•.>) 7< V tie CoP 

V 114%, r '2 38 and 
26.5 v k yS-UOV 
do. 


Typa 69, oft. i and 
t PUT v<.,facto 
■ ntact iatlii%. 3A *t 
.A tp and 28 V tic; 
s ,i4 '’dltajfi t 6, 9 12 

1J 3 and 48 V do. 


fj (>; stCl , Bract tt 
aii.itt.e» y,<» 


<.1 fyp# -V» < 1 .*g-i s 


Jyp* c * < 
, &A) 24 



[*17*7 I—1] 


btot *f>r Trarrer. araraK'n 1 


145 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Concld. 

ITC-Re?. 2 CCCN 1TC Mm* 

Cod* Cod* God* 


(ff! Types : 

ER23154-C0717, B104 
ER 23154-C0720-B104 
ER 23154-C0721-B104 
ER 23134-C0722-B104 
ER 23154-C0726-B104 
DPDT contacts, con¬ 
tact rating: 

1A max and 100 V 
max, subject to power 
limitation of 30 max; 
Coll Voltage : 9, 12, 
18, & 26.5 V dc. 


i ypea . 

ER 23154-D0715-B110 
ER 231J4-D0717-B110 
ER 23154-D0719-B110 
ER 23154-D0712-B110 
ER 23154-D0722-B110 
4 PDT contacts, 
contact rating 
1A max and 100 V 
max, subject to power 
limitation of 30 W 
max. Coil Voltage: 
6, 9, 12, 18 and 26.5 
V dc. 


(c) Reed, typo DRM, 
INo and 2No con¬ 
tacts, Contact Rat¬ 
ings: 200 V max, 
500 mA max subject 
to a power limitation 
of 14W: Coil Volt¬ 
ages: 6 V, 5 V. 12V and 
24V do. 


9W Power rating of 
values 1 ohms to 68K 
ohms 

12W Power rating of 
values 1 ohm to 100K 
ohms 

1JW Power rating of 
values 10 ohms to 
6.8K ohms 

25W Power rating of 
values 10 ohms to 18K 
ohms 

50W Power rating of 
values 10 ohms to 
39K ohms 

100W Power rating of 
values 15 ohms to 
91K ohms 

(c) Resistors, variable, 
wirewound. Adjust¬ 
ment typo of 0.75W 
power rating in values 
10 ohms to 10K ohms 

(d) Wirewound, variable 
resistance range 10 
ohms to 10K ohms 
Power ratings 0.5W 
and 1.0W. 

(lx) Capaclton i 

(a) Metallised plastic, 
dielectric; 


(viii Switches i NSC 85 19 

(a) Rotary wafer, follow* 
ms types i 

AM 

OM 1. 2, 3. 4 
J 

JC 

HM-1. 2, 3. 4, 3 

(b) Capsule, dry reed, 
following types t 
MRR-2 

MSRR-2 

DRA-200 

(ill!) Reiistors NSC 85.19 

(a) Catbon film resistors 
(insulated/non-insulat- 
ed) of rating 1 watt or 
below and of values 
10 ohms to 1 meg. 
ohms 

,h) Non-msulated wire- 
wound resistors o( 
the following types i 
2.5W Power rating of 
values 1.0 ohms to 10IE 
ohms 

o.OW Powct rating of 
values, 10 ohms to 
JOE ohnu 


(1) Polyester Non-her- 

mctloally sealed. Tub¬ 
ular, axial leads upto 
630 Vdc rating Capa- 
citanco range 0.00083 
to 10/uF 

(2) Polyester Non-her- 

metically sealed. Box 
typo, radial leads 
Upto 630 V do rating 
Capacitance ranges 
0.0047 to 6.8/uF 

(3) Polycarbonate Noo- 
hermetically sealed, 
flat oval axial leads 
100 Vdc 

Capacitance rang* 
0.033/UF to 10/UF 

(b) Ceramic dielectric. 
General purpose 

111 Disc typo 

Voltage Capacttam • 
rating range 


500 V dc 220 to 
270 PF 
3300 to 
4700 PP 
6800 to 
10000 PE 
300 V dc 470, 1000, 

1800, 4T05PF 


CCCN 

Codt 



146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Contd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


(c) Ceramic dielectric, 
Temperature compen¬ 
sating 


Voltago 

rating 

Capacitance 

range 

500 Vdc 

1.5 to 

220 PF 

Polystyrene dielectric 

Non-hermetlcally sea¬ 
led, Tubular axial leads 

Voltage 

rating 

Capacitance 

range 

63 Vdc 

250 V dc 

100 PF to 
603000 PF 
100 PF to 
150000 PF 

Non-hermetlcally 
sealed, box type, Radial 
leads 

Voltage 

rating 

Capacitance 

range 

100 Vdc 

100 10 
250000PF 

200 V dc 

100 to 

100000 PF 

500 Vdc 

47 to 

55000 PF 

CapadU rs, Mica die¬ 
lectric 

Voltage 

rating 

Capadtanco 

values 

500 V 

1 to 4700PF 

Solid Tantalum Capa¬ 
citors 

Voltage 

Rating 

Capacitance 

Values 

6 to 50 V 
dc 

0.1 to 330 
u/F 


608- Components of textile machinery other than jute and hemp I 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 


(x) Electron Tubes: 

(a) Magnetrons 
7008 

5J26 

(b) Voltage Regulators 
S90/40/CV287 
85A2 

(c) Transmitting 
60 

1000 

4000 

100 

8438/400 
250 CX 


(d) Receiving, Pentodes 
EF 91/CV 5654 
EL 84/CV 4014 

(e) Receiving, Trlodes 
ECC82 

ECH81 

(f) Numerical Indicator 
ST 12C 

MF 31D/B5870 

(g) Rectifiers 
3B 24/03a 
EZ80 
EZ81 

CZ 34 

2a 

2a-l 

5a 

5a-l 

(h) Thyratron 
5544 

(xl) Cathode-Ray lubes:— 

130 Cl PI 
180 Cl P7 
260 Cl P7 
180 C2P7 
300 Cl P7 

(xli) Crystal Unit, Quartz Stylos 
Type KXL P7007, Fre¬ 
quency range 0.5 to 20 
MHZ 

CR-52A/U f c 

Frequency range 

"{ 10MHZ to 61 

CR-62A/U LMHZ 


Machinery 


Components 


(1) Blow Room Machinery All components except those required for fully 

automatic Chute foeding type blow room. NSC NSC 

(2) Revolving Flat Carding Engine for Cotton/Man- All components except for those for high production 

made fibre. cards with feeding Chute auto leveller/auto can 

changer. NSC NSC 



[WFT I — l] 

tRTTnr . srarom 


147 

APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Contd. 


Machinery 

Components 

ire Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code Code 

(3) 

Draw Frames/Speed Frames, other 
required by woollen textile industry. 

than those 1. Fluted rollers for Darw and Speed Frames Ex¬ 
cluding Helical fluted rollers. 

NSC 

84.38 



2. Spindles. 

NSC 

84.38 



3. Flyers for Speed Frames. 

NSC 

84.38 



4. Rubber cots and aprons for drafting system. 

NSC 

NSC 

(4) 

Ring Frames 

1. Spindles 

NSC 

NSC 



2. Lappers 

NSC 

NSC 



3. Separators 

NSC 

NSC 



4. Part of Pneumatic under ctearers. 

NSC 

NSC 



5. Fluted Rollers 

NSC 

84.38 



6. Rings for Rina Frames and Doubling Frame 
for cotton textile industry. 

NSC 

84.38 



7. Ring Travellers for cotton textile industry. 

NSC 

84.38 



8. Rubber cots and aproms for drafting system. 

NSC 

84.38 



9, Spindle inserts of dia below 10 mm. 

NSC 

NSC 

(3) 

Winding Machine 

1. Metallic Traverse Drums for High Speed Warp 
Winding Machine. 

NSC 

84.38 



2. Bccklite Traverse Drums of 127mm (5") and 
152.40mm (6”) Traverse for Warp Winding 
Machine. 

NSC 

84.38 



3. Mo ter/Yardage Counters. 

NSC 

90.27 

(6) 

Warping Machine 

1. Warper’s Beams excluding laminated or plastic 
flanges for High Speed Warping Machine. 

NSC 

84.38 



2, Meter/Yardago Counters. 

NSC 

90.27 



3. Warping Combs other than zigzag types. 

NSC 

84.38 



4. Lease Reeds. 

NSC 

84.38 

(7) 

Sizing Machine. 

1. Sizing Combs other than zigzag types. 

NSC 

NSC 



2. Meter/Yardage counters, except out marking 
counters. 

NSC 

NSC 



3. Moisture Meter. 

NSC 

NSC 



4. Sizing Cylinders. 

NSC 

NSC 



3. Lease Reeds. 

NSC 

NSC 

(8) 

Loom parts/Acccssories 

V. Shuttles exlcuding for Tape/Ribbon/Grippers 
looms. 

NSC 

34.38 



2. Pick Counters/Meter Counters and all such 
counters. 

NSC 

90.07 



3. Pitch/bound/steel/brass/handloom reeds. 

NSC 

34.38 



4. All Metal Reeds excluding special types such as 
those for Air-Jet, Water-Jet and Needle loom 
aud reeds above 350s counts. 

NSC 

34.38 


5. Cotton healds/wire healds/flat steel healds, ex¬ 
cluding doup healds and healds for alr/water 
jet looms and special types such as those for 

narrow weaving/needle looms. NSC 34.38 

6. Drop Wires for Warp Stop Motion excluding 
special types such as those for narrow wenving/ 

needle looms. NSC NSC 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sbc. 1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART-A— Canid. 


Machinery 


Component* JEC Rev. 2 CCCN 

Code Code 


7. Pickers. 

8. Buffen, excluding Hydraulic buffen, 

9. Picking Sticks. 

10. Picking Bands. 

11. Check Straps 

12. Heald Cords. 

13. Heald Knitting Needles. 

14. Jacquard Harness Needle*. 

15. Linen Core. 

16. Jacquard Cards excluding special types such a* 
those for narrow weaving/needle looms. 


NSC 


17. Following parts of looms other than— 


(a) Swivel and Lappet Looms. 

(b) High Speed Narrow Fabric Looms. 

(c) Tyre Cord Looms. 

(d) Fustian Looms. 

(e) Circular Looms. 

CO Shutteless Looms. 

Cg ) Moquettee Looms. 

(A) Imported Automatic Loom*. 

(/) Velvet Loom i 
(/I Loom side*. 

(ii) Top Rails. 

(til) Cross Ralls 
Civ) Binder Rails. 

(v) Slcy Swords. 

Cvl) Swing Rails and Bushing* 

(vtl) Breast Beams, 


l NSC 84.38 


(>///) Take-up Roller* 
Cix) All Metal Sleys. 


(x) Crank Shafts and Bushes 

fisc 

84.63 

Cxi) Tappet Shafts and Bushes 

NSC 

84.63 

Cxll) Pickfng Bowls. 

NSC 

NSC 

CxUi) Picking Tappet Shells, 

NSC 

NSC 

Cxlv) Picking Tappet Nose Bits 

NSC 

NSC 

Cxv) Picking Shafts. 

NSC 

NSC 

(xvl) Picking Tappet Bose Keys 

NSC 

NSC 

( xvll ) Picking Tappet Bose. 

NSC 

NSC 

Cvlli) Loom Temple 

NSC 

84.38 

U«) Paris of Weft Replenishing Meohanlsm.NSC 

NSC 

18. Loom spindles. 

NSC 

84.38 

19, Looms Springs namely Swell, Box and Box-end 
springs. 

NSC 

NSC 

20. Side Welt fuck other than welded typ*. 

NSC 

NSC 


2i, Porcelain eyes of shuttle* 


22. Weaver's Beam*. 


23. Shuttle tip*. 

24. Weft grate* 

25. Welt grates. 

26. All Metal lleald Frame* excluding ipcclal type* ; 
such as those lor narrow weaving/needle loom*. J 


VNSr: 


84.38 



I’— 


*rrai »pt mw • sum ion 


149 


APPENDIX 3 PARl-A-A’omii. 


Machinery 


Component* 


ITC &ej.2 CCCfi 
Code Code 


27. Perforated Steel Strips. 

NSC 

NSC 

28. Emery Fillet. 

NSC 

NSC 

29. Shuttle Tongue. 

1 


30. Lease Rods. 



31. (/) All types of ShuttloEyes excluding Rutl and 

VNSC 

84.38 


Honex types. 

(//) All types of Shuttle Jaws. 


(9) Power operated circular machines (under-wear) 


(10) Other! 


1. Cylinders for non-sinker plain web machines/ "j 

sinker body machine of 24 gauge. ( 

2. Cylinders for sinker non-sinker plainweb machine | 

Upto 22 gauge. J 


NSC 


84.38 


1. Wooden/metallic Bobbins/Prina, Cone* and 
Tubes. 

2. Paper Tubes/Cones. 

3. Jacquard Nock cords other than continuous 
length. 

4. Auto Pliers. 

5. Cotton/Papor/Woollen Calender Bowls. 

6. Cloth Guiders. 

7. Colour Mixing Pans. 

8. Copper Printing Rollers. 

9. Drying Cylinders. 

10. Hank/Clotb Expander. 


NSC 

NSC 

1 


y nsc 


j 


NSC 

NSC 


84.38 


11. Pro-Heaters and Heat Exchangers. 

12. Raising Fillets. 

13. Rubber sleeves for Compressive shrinking Range/ 
Santforizing machine. 

14. Rubbcr/Ebonlte Rollers. 

15. Selvedge Uncurlers 


- NSC 

. 


16. Vacuum Strainer. 


NSC 


17. Weft Straightoners other than Bow and skew type! ' 

18. Doctor Blades. 

19. Dyeing Beams and Carriers. 

20. Stenter Clips J 

21. Nickel Perforated Screens 640 mm and 914 mm 


repeat in sizes. NSC 

22. Card clothing for cotton waste cards NSC 

23. Nose bars for ring frames NSC 

24. Spindle tapes NSC 

y 09 _ AJI electronic equipment/systems, howsoever, described (Including consumer and professional types) excluding 

those specifically allowed under OGL In this policy or specified elsewhere. NSC 

610. (Cits/ready to assemble sets, assemblies, sub-assemblies,.modules, and combination thereof of all electronic 
items (excluding items mentioned in App. 6 List 8—Part 1 appearing at Sr. No. 609 but excluding 
electronic discrete components (unless individually mentioned elsewhere in this Appendix). NSC 

411 Any item having another chemical name or synonym, but of the same nature, as any of the items covered by this 
List. (The synonyms mentioned in this entry refer only to those of chemicals and allied items). NSC 


Notbs t (1) Entry No. 171 above applies, equally to dyestuffs having the same colour India* as (hoee it«t#d 
therein and of different manufacturers. 

(2) The Type Nos. set down against the respective Items and componens in Entry No. 607 above 
represent internationally accepted specifications and could therefore Include all such item* and 
components of different manufactures. 


NSC 


84.18 


84.38 


73.06 

84.38 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 

NSC 



150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 3 (Contd.) 

APPENDIX 3 PART—B 

RAW MATERIALS (IRON AND STEEL AND FERRO ALLOYS) 


Carbon Steel Items 

]. All grades of carbon steel (carbon 
less than 0.6%) strips in hardened 
and/or tempered condition. 

/ 

2. High Carbon (carbon 0.6% and 
above) hardened and/or tempered 
steel strips for saw blades/cutting 
tools. 

All grades of carbon steel wires in 
galvanised/black/annealcd/drawn/ 
copper/tfa/bronze/brass /plastic/ 

Vinyl coated condition in sizes 
0,46 mm dia (26 SWG) and thicker 
and round reed wires and also wires 
for manufacture of tyre beads but 
excluding bright annealed wires In 
size 0.5 mm dia (25 SWG) for 
manufacture of wired glass/wire- 
mesh for wired glass. 

4. (a) Cold heading Carbon Steel Wire 

rods. 

(6) Rolled rounds above 145 mm. 

(c) Carbon Steel Flats in sizes of 
8x40 mm to 40x200 mm. 

(d) Carbon Steel squares In sizes 
ranging from 8x8 mm to 25 x 25 mm 

(e) Forge rounds above 450 mm. 
dia. 

5. (a) API quality Steel (Plates). 

(b) Plates in Spec. ASTMA 588 
Gr. A. 

(c) Plates above 8 mm thick 
WSTE-36. 

(d) Plates IS-2062 (Weldable 
quality). 

(a) Plates above 1500 mm width 
IS-226. 


(/) Cold Rolled High Carbon 
(Carbon 0.6% and above) 
Steel Strips unhardened and 
untempered, 

7. ( a ) Electrical Steel Sheets CRGO 

Spec. Gr, M4. 

(6) Electrical Steel Sheets Gr. 
M2H. 

8. Tin Plato Primo OTS quality. 

9. Tin Plate waste waste. 

10. All grades of Carbon Steel Wires 
Galvanlsed/black anncaled/drawn/ 
Copper coated of sizes thinner 
than 0.46 mm but excluding tyre 
bead wires. 


11. Tram tyres/wheels. 

12. Boiler/pressure vessel quality 
pldtes/Coils In Hot rolled/Cold 
rolled condition in all grades of 
carbon steel in thickness 5 mm and 
above. 

13. All Seconds/second grades/ defec- 
tives/cuttings/Circlos of sheets/ 

Iatos/Coils/Strips in any shape/ 
ection/form not elsewhere stated in 
coatod/plated or uncoated condi¬ 
tion Including tin/Zinc/Alumlnium/ 
aluminium alloy coated/plated and 
commodity marketed as tin free 
Steels in the description above 
stated. 


Alloy Steel Items. 

14. High sulphur free cuttfag/somi- 
free cutting steel billcts/squares/ 
rounds/rods. 

15. High Speed Steel (non-cobalt 
grades) :— 


6. 


(a) Copper bearing Sheets/Coils 
in Spec. ASTMA 588 Gr. A. 


(1) Wire rods In coils 3.5 mm to 
40 mm. dia; and. 


(b) CR Coils and sheets to IS 513 
Grade ‘O’. 


(//) Wires fa any finis h 3.5 mm 
and above dia. 


(c) Cold Rolled D/DD/EDD 
quality sheets/coils. 

(d) Hot rolled Ooils/Sheets/Skelps, 

(e) Cold Rolled Steel Strips 12 mm 
wide and below. 


16. High Speed Steel (non-cobalt 
grades) rounds to any finish in 
sizes 6.0 mm to 120 mm dia. 

17. High Speed Steel flat/sqgares in 
all grades. 





<rpar *t y.r'smi: switiuyt 


151 


[ml—1] 


APPENDIX 3 PART-B— Concld. 


18. Alloy steel wires In all grades other 
than stainless/heat resisting steel 
of size 0.46 mm dia (26 SWG) and 
thicker but excluding : 

(a) Hosiery needle wires. 

(ft) High Speed steel wires in sizes 
less than 3.5 mm dia. 

(c) Wires in ground condition. 


24. High speed steel as under :— 

(/) Rounds/wires in cobalt boar, 
ing grades 6.5 mm dia to 
120 mm dia. 

(//) Hcxagons/octagons/blooms/ 
billots. 


25. Forged/rolled tool and Die Steel and 
Die blocks as under :— 


19. Forged/Rolled Tool & die steel and 
die blocks as under :— 

(a) Round section 500 mm and 
below dia. 


(a) Round Section above 500 mm 
dia. 

(b) Rectangular/square shape of 
cross section above 250,000 
square mm. 


(b) Rectangular/Square shape of 
cross section 250,000 square 
mm & below. 


20. Stainless/heat resisting steel wires 
of size 0.31 mm dia (30 SWG) and 
thicker but excluding wiros in 
copper/tin coated condition. 


21. (a) Cold heading quality alloy 
steel wire rods. 


(ft) Turbine Blado Flats. 


22. (a) Stainless steel plate of thickness 

above 12 mm and width above 
1.25 meters. 

(ft) Alloy steel plates/sheets/strips/ 
coils (excluding SS/hcat resist¬ 
ing steel HR/CR). 

(c) Stainless Steel Strips (AIS1 
304 quality) less than 0.3 mm 
thickness for manufacture of 
Capillary tubes. 

23. Alloy steel plates—hot rolled/ 

cold rblled In all grades (excluding 
stainless/heat resisting/high speed 
steels) not elsewhere stated. 

Note :— 


26. Alloy Steel rounds. 

27. Stainless Steel Scrap to Specifica¬ 
tion AISI-316, CF 3M/316L, 
Alloy 20 and HV-9. 


Ferro Alloys 

28. Ferro Alloys In form other than 
powder form as under :— 

(a) Ferro Manganese excluding 
the grades with carbon less 
than 0.1%. 

(ft) Ferro Silicon excluding 
atomised ferro-silicon. 

(c) Ferro Chrome excluding the 
grades with carbon less than 
0.03%. 

( d) Silico Manganese. 

( e ) Silico Chrome. 

(/) Ferro Titanium all forms. 

(g) Ferro Molybdenum. 

(ft) Ferro Vanadium. 

(/) Ferro Tungsten. 

(/) Forro-Columbium/Nioblum. 

(ft) Ferro-Silicon Magnesium. 


1. The ITC R. 2 and CCCN code numbers have been assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the bills of entry filled by the importer and on licences whenever issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs authorities for classification for tariff purposes. 

4. The interpretation of the Jmp.rt-Export policy will, however, continue to be as per description of the items given in this 
Appendix and not according to the code Numbers assigffed. 

5. "NSC’ stands for Not Separately Classined. 



152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec.)1] 


APPENDIX 4 


Deleted 





[tOTTl —tit l] 


SITOT ft TTJnfll: *I«!«K«I 


153 


APPENDIX 5 

CANALISED ITEMS 
PART—A 

LIST OF ITEMS, IMPORT OF WHICH IS CANALISED THROUGH PUBLIC SECTOR AGENCIES 


Balmer l.awrl* & Company 

1. Paraffin wax. 


lTCRev.2 CCCN 
Code No. CodtNo. 

14. Fluorspar (acid grade). 

15. Lead. 

335.120 97.13 


1TC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No. 

278.5403 25.31 
685 78.01 

to 

78.05 


Central Silk Board 
2. Raw Silk. 


3. Silk worm (cocoons). 


226.3001/ 50.02 
3002 

261.4100 50.01 


16. Primary and Secondary Nickel all 
types, Nickel scrap and Nickel 
powder. 671.6912 73.02 

683 75.01 

to 
.05 


Cotton Corporation of India. 

4. Raw cotton. 263,1 55,01 


National Film Development Corporation 

5. Cinematograph films, not exposod, 
all types and sizes, excluding the 
following 882.2201 37.02 

882.2202 

(1) black and white positive and 
sound negative. 

(2) 8 mm (colour); and 

(3) 8 mm block and white negative. 


Jute Corporation of India 


6. Jute Pulp 

NSC 

47.01 

7. Raw Manila hemp (fibre). 

265.5000 

57.02 

8. Raw sisal fibre. 

263.4001 

57.04 

9. Raw jute including mesta and cut¬ 
tings. 

264.0001 

264.0002 

264.0003 

57.03 

Minerals & Metals Trading Corporation of 
India. 



10. Aluminium Including aluminium 
rods. 

684 

76.01 

to 

76.07 

11. Antimony metal. 

689.9901 

699.9901 

81.04 

12. Asbestos raw. 

278,4 

25.24 

13. Copper including copper rods 
(wrought or unwrought). 

682 

74.01 

to 

74,08 


17. Pla*snum. 


681.2 

71.09/ 

.10 

18. Palladium. 


NSC 

71.09 

19. Sulphur, non-processed elemental/ 
non-reflned including sulphur re¬ 
covered as a by-product of petro¬ 
leum refining. 

274.1000 

25.03 

20. Tin. 


687 

80.01 

to 

.05 

21. Zinc (or Spelter). 


686 

79.01 

to 

.04 


State Trading Corporation of India 

22. Alkyl benzene including Unear 

alkyl bcnzene/dodecyl benzene. 511.2901 29.01/29.04 

38.19 


23. All synthetic non-cellulose fibres 
excluding polyester fibre/tow, nylon 
fibre/tow, acryUc fibre/tow and 

polypropylene flbre/tow. 

266.5100 

56.01 

.5902 

to 


.5903 

.04 


.5909 

.6100 

.6909 

.7100 

.7909 



267 


24. Calcium borate. 

523.2809 

28.46 

25, D.D.T. Technical and 75 wdp. 

511.3912 

29.02 

26. Methyl Methacrylate Monomer 

(virgin/regenerated). 

519.1007 

38.11 

NSC 

29.14 

27. Methanol, all type*. 

512.1100 

29.04 


38 G1/85—11. 



154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 5 PART-A— Contd. 


1TC Rtf. 2 CCCN 
Code No, Code No. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No, 


28. Polyester Filament yarn excluding 
base flat—first quality (Fully/partf- 
ally oriented), Nylon filament yarn 
and thread excluding :— 

651.41 

to 

651.49 

51.01/ 

.02/. 03/ 
.05/.06 

0) Base flat-first quality (fully/ 
partially oriented) and; 

00 Industrial nylon yarn of 210 
denier and above, 



29. Titanium dioxide (both Anatase 
and Rutile grades). 

522.4601 

.4602 

28.25, 

32.07 

30. Natural rubber. 

232 

40.01 

31. Writing and Printing Paper—all 
types excluding Art and chrome 
Paper and Art and chrome Board. 

641.1 

641.2* 

48 

•exclud¬ 

ing 

641.2101/ 

2202 

32. Acetate Filament Yarn excluding 
first quality. 

651.72 

51.01/ 
.02/. 03/ 
56.05/ 

.06 

Metal Scrap Trade Corpratton Ltd. 

33. Sponge Iron 

671.32/ 

.33 

73.05 

34. Carbon steel melting scrap of all 
grades. 

282.6900 

73.03 

35. Carbon steel re-rollable scrap of 
all grades. 

-do- 

-do- 

36. Alloy steel (Including stainless/ 
heat reslstlng/hlgh speed steel) 
melting scrap but excluding re- 
rollablc scrap. 

282.02 73.03 

37. Old ships, vessels, etc., for break¬ 
ing. 

793.3000 

89.04 


Minerals & Metal* Trading Corporation of India 

38. Pig Iron (all wades other than p)g 
iron containing phosphorous not 
more than 0.1%). t 671.2 73.0] 


00 Carbon Steel flats In sizes 
of 8 x 40mm to 40 x 200mm. 

(HI) Carbon Steel squares In size* 
ranging from 8 x 8mm to 
25 x 25mm. 


(Iv) Forging quality steel billets/ 
bars/rods. 

(v) Billets for Seamless steel tubes 
ASTME 45 quality. 


(vi) Wide flange beam. 

(vlt) Tee Section. 

40. Plates/coil* hot rolled/cold rolled 
In all grades of carbon steel of 
thickness 5 mm and 'above exclud¬ 
ing plates/colls to boiier/pressurc 
vessels quality specifications exclud¬ 
ing the following 674.1501 73.08/ 

674.1502 .09/ 

674.1503 .13/ 

674.42/ .15 

52/62 

674.92 


0) API Quality Steel (plates). 

(tt) Plates In specification ASTMA 
588 Or. ‘A’. 

(///) Plates above 8 mm thick 
WSTE-36. 

00 Plates IS 2062 (Weldable 

Quality)- 

(v) Plates above 1500mm width 
IS—226. 

(W) ARMCO soli Iron plates. 

(vtt) Ship building quality plates 
conforming to Lloyds grades 
B/C/D/E. 


41. All coated/plated Including gal¬ 
vanised, aluminium and aluminium 
alloy coated and uncoated sheets/ 
strips/coils of all grades of carbon 
steel hot' rolled or cold rolled not 
elsewhere mentioned but excluding : 672.72 

675.02 


73.08/ 

.09/ 

. 12 / 

.13/ 

.15 


Carbon Steel Items (all grades) 


39. Ingots/slabs/blooms/blUets/sheet bars/ 
bars and rods (including rods/ 
squares/flats/hexagons/octagons/ 
wire rods) and structurals (includ¬ 
ing angles/beams/channels/joists/ 
teestshect piling Section/ ‘Z’ sec¬ 
tion) excluding the following ;— 


672.52 

672.4200 

673.12 

673.22 

673.37 


f 73.06/ 
' .07/ 
. 10 / 
. 11 / 
.15 


(/) plastic/vinyl coated sheets/ 
strips/coils. 

00 Copper Bearing Sheets/Colls 
in specification ASTMA 588 
Or. ‘A’. 

(///) CR coils and sheets to IS 513 
Grade ‘O’. 

00 Cold rolled D/DD/EDD 
quality sheets/coils. 

(r) Hot rolled Coiis/sheets/Skelps. 


(/) Cold heading quality carbon 
steel wlte rods. 


(W) Cold Rolled Steel strips 12mm 
wide and below. 







[«n»r I—*¥ i] 


<TTOT 4T WW: araTOTW 


155 


APPENDIX 5 PART -A—Concia. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCC.V 
Code No. Code No. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No. 


(vtt) Cold Rolled high carbon 
(Carbon 0.6% and above) 
steel strips, unhardened and 
untempered. 

(vttt) Copper Coated Cold rolled 
low Carbon steel strips for 
manufacture of Bundy Tubes, 

42. Coated steel sheets/strips/colls 
marketed as tin free steel and 
marketed as printed steel/sheets/ 
strips/coils. NSC NSC 

" u 43. Galvaniscd/alumlnlum alloy coated 
iron/steel sheets/strips/colls in 
corrugated shapes. NSC NSC 

44. Electrical steel sheets/strips/coils 
(all grades Including alloy steel 
grades) hot rolled/cold rolled non- 
grain oriented and grain oriented 

excluding the following NSC NSC 

(/) Electrical Steel Sheets CRGO 
Spec : Gr. M4. 

( U ) Electrical Steel Sheets Gr. M 
2H. 

45. Tin Plate Prime (Non-OTS 

Quality). 687.2200 80.03 


Alloy Steel (all grades) 

46. Ingots/slabs/blooms/blllets/sheet 
bars/bars and rods including rods/ 
squares/flats/hoxagons j octagon«/ 
and structurals including angles/ 
channels/beams/jolsts/tees/V Sec¬ 
tion in stainless/heat resisting steel 
of all grades excluding Stainless 
Steel flats. 


47. Stainless/heat resisting steel wire 
rods In coils. 


672.43 

672.44 
673.24/ 
23/37/38/ 
39 

672.54, 

672.33 


-73.13 

I 


673.14 T3.13 


48. AU seconds/second grades/defeo- 
tives/cuttings/circles of all grades 
of alloy steel (including stainless/ 
heat resistlng/hlgh speed steel) to 
any speciflcatlon/analysis In coat¬ 
ed/uncoated condition In any form/ 
section/size/category Including re- 
rollablc scrap but excluding melt¬ 
ing scrap. 282.0200 73.03/ 

282.0900 .13 


49. All grades/compositions of alloy/ 
stainless/heat rcsisting/high speed 
steel scrap including re-rollable 
scrap but excluding. 282.02/09 73.03 

(0 melting scrap. 

(II) Stainless steel scrap to speci¬ 
fication AISI-316, CF 3M/ 

316L, Alloy 20 and HV-9. 


50. Alloy steel ingots/blooms/slaba/ 

billets excluding the following : 672.44 73.13 

(a) High speed steel. 

(I>) Stainless/heat resisting steel. 

(c) Hollow drill steel bars/ sec¬ 
tions. 


(d) Leaded free cutting steel flats/ 
hexagons/octagons (including 
specifications which contain 
Ixrth lead and high sulphur 
in the same specification). 

31. Alloy Steel wire rods In colls In all 

grades including high speed steel 
wire rods (cobalt grade) but ex¬ 
cluding the following :— 673.13 73, 13 

(а) To specification IS-4454 
(Part HI)—1975. 

(б) Non-cobalt grade high speed 
steel wire rods. 

(c) Leaded free cutting steel wire 
rods (including specifications 
which contain both lead and 
high sulphur in the same speci¬ 
fication). 

32. Hot rolled/cold rolled colls, strips, 

plates and sheets (including those 
folded In any shape), In stainless/ 
heat resisting steels In all grades ex¬ 
cluding the following :— 672.74 73.13 

674.14/ 

.15 


(/) Cold rolled strips In colls of 
width 3.00 mm—22.40 mm and 
thickness 0.10—0.13 mm for 
razor blades. 

(A) Stainless/heat resisting oteel 
Btrips/flals conforming to 
AISI 303 and 304 In width 
below 51mm and In thickness 
below 10 mm for manufacture 
of watch cases. 


(Ut) Stalnless/beat resisting steel 
strips conforming to AISI 
304 and 316 In width below 
31mm and thickness below 
0.4 mm for manufacture of 
pen nibs. 

(tv) Stainless steel strips conform¬ 
ing to AISI 304 In thickness 
0.233 to 0.314 mm and width 
75 mm max. for manufacture of 
watch strap. 

(v) Stainless steel plate of thick¬ 
ness abovo 12 mm and width 
above 1,25 meter. 


(rt) Stainless steel strips (AISI 304 
quality) less than 0.3 mm thick¬ 
ness for manufacture of capil¬ 
lary tubes. 

(vtt) Stainless steel strips In sizes 
ranging from 100mm to 150 mm 
and’ thickness 0.5 mm to 1.5 
mm. 


Nora (1) The terminology and definitions for Iron and 
stoel (including ferro-alloys) Items are in acor- 
dance with those appearing In the Customs 
Tariff Act, 1975. 

(2) Non-ferrous metals canalised for Import through 
MMTC will be In “unwrougbt" form only. 
Their Import in wrought form will be governed 
by respective entries In other Appendices. 



156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX •—Contd. 

PART-B 

PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, FERTILISER,S,DRUGS, FEATURE FILMS/VIDEO FILMS, OIL/SEEDS, 
CEMENT, CEREALS, NEWSPRINT, FATTY ACIDS ETC. 


Petroleum Products 

1. The following items will be import- ITC Rev .2 CCCN 

ed by only the Indian Oil Corporation Code Code 

under Open General Licence, on the basis 
of foreign exchange released by Govern¬ 
ment In its favour. Imports, distribution 
and their pricing will be made by the 
Indian Oil Corporation as per the conec- 
ted policy of Government In the Minis- 
\ try of Petroleum: 


(1) Aviation specialities of both 
synthetic and minoral origin. 

(2) Base lubricating oil. 

(3) Benzene. 


334.1 27.10 
334.? 27.10 
511.2200 29.01 


(4) Crude oil. 333.0000 27.09 

(5) Metal Worklng/Muchlning Oils. NSC 27.10 

(6) Greases (other than petroleum 

jellies) of all grades and types ex¬ 
cluding watch greases. 334.3200 27.10 

34,03 


(7) Heat transfer oil all types, 

mineral origin. 334.5 27.10 

(8) Kerosene. , 334.2100 27.10 


(9) Liquid paraffin including phar- 

macopoclal grade, 335.1201 27.13 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No. 

(20) All types of petroleum Jclllos. 335.1100 27.12 

(21) Toluene. 511.2300 29.01 


(22) Transformer oil other than 
synthetic and Transformer oil 
base stocks of both mineral and 

synthetic origin. 334.3 27.10 

(23) Turbine oil. * 334.5 27.10 

(24) White oil. ' 334.3 28.10 


(25) Raw petroleum Coke. 334.4200 27.14 

(26) Bitumen (asphalt)—Paving grade, 335.4100 27.14 

(27) Crude spiked with LPG. 335.4100 27.14 


Fertilizers: 

2. In the case of the following Items, 
imports will bo made by Minerals & 
Metals Trading Corporation on behalf 
of the Government of India in Ministry 
of Agriculture and Rural Dev¬ 
elopment under OGL, Foreign 
Exchange required for the purpose will 
will be released by the Government In 
favour of MMTC. The Imports, dis¬ 
tribution and their pricing will be made 
by the MMTC as per the connected policy 
of the Government in the Ministry of 
Agriculture, and Rural Development 


(10) Lubricating oil and greases of 



both synthetic and mineral origin, 
packed grade. 

334.5 

27.10 

34.03 

(11) 

Microcrystalline wax. 

335.1209 

27.13 

(12) 

Mineral oils. 

334.5 

27.10 

(13) 

Mineral oil for the manufacture 
of insecticides. 

334.5 

27.10 

(14) 

Motor Spirit. 

334.1100 

27.10 

115) 

Naptha. 

335.2502 

27.07 

(16) 

Oil for batching of jute, wool or 
other fibres. 

334.3 

27.10 

(17) 

Shock absorber oil. 

334.5 

27.10 

(18) 

Graphited ofl for lubrication of 
glass moulds. 

334.5 

27.10 

(19) 

All types of lubricating oils in 
bulk. 

334.5 

27.10/ 

34.03 


(/) Nitrogenous i 


(1) 

Ammonium sulpha*e. 

562.1300 

31.02 

(2) 

Urea, 

562.1600 

31.02 

(3) 

Ammonium sulphate nitrate. 

562.1200 

31.02 

(4) 

Calcium ammonium nitrate. 

562.9900 

31.02 

(5) 

Nitrate of ammonia (ammonium 
nitrate) 

562.1100 

31.02 

(6) 

Nitrate of soda. 

271.2000 

31.02 

(7) 

Nitrate of Hmo. 

562.1401 

31.02 

(8) 

Calcium cynamide. 

562.1500 

523.9903 

31.02 

28.58 

(H) Phosphatit 



0) 

Rook phosphate. 

271.3109/ 

3209 

25.10 

(2) 

T ri plc-super-phospha to. 

562.2200 

31.03 

(3) 

Mineral phosphate. 

562,2900 

31.03 



[trrr I—i] 


*rrer *t TTJnn: jutmivi 


157 


APPENDIX 5 PART-B— Contd. 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No- Code No, 

(4) Mineral super-phosphate. 562.2200 31.03 

(5) Basic slag. 562.2100 31.03 

(Hi) Potassic : 

(1) Sulphate of potash. 562.3200 31.04 

« 

(2) Muriate of potash (potassium 
chloride other than Industrial 

grade). 562.3101 31.04 


ITC Rev. 2 CCCN 
Code No. Code No. 


(11) Piperazine (dicthytene diamine) 

anhydrous hexahydrate. NSC 29.35 


(12) Streptomycins sulphate. 541.3200/ 29.44 

7104 


(13) Vitamin A and Pre-mixes of 
Vitamin A. Vitamin D-3, Vita¬ 
min E and its derivatives. 

Menadione, Menadione—Sodium 

bisulphite and Aceto menadione 

and Vitamin C. 541.1/ 29.38 

6103 


(/v) Complex i 

(1) Di-ammonium phosphate. 562.9200 31.04 

(2) Ammonium phosphate of various') 

grados. I 562.9200 31.05 

(3) Ammonium nltrophosphate of I 

various grades. J 523.2219 

(4) Mono ammonium phosphate. 562.9200 31.05 

(5) NPK-complex fertilisers of var¬ 
ious grades. 562.9100 31.05 

Drugs 


Feature Filins (Cinematograph Films, 

Exposed)/VHeo Films 882.2401/ 37.04/ 

883 37.05/ 

37.07 

4. In the case of feature films Includ¬ 
ing Video rights of foreign feature films 
and Video Films (except Video films 
imported by Door-Darshan), import will 
by made only by the National Film Deve¬ 
lopment Corporation under Open Gen¬ 
eral Licence, on the basis of foreign ex¬ 
change roloased by the Government in 
its favour. Imports, distribution and 
their pricing will bo made by the National 
Film Development Corporation as per 
the connected policy of Oovemmcnt in the 
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 


3. In the case of the following items. 
Import will be made only by the State 
Trading Corporation of India (STO, 
under Open General Licence, on the basis 
of foreign exchange released by the Govern¬ 
ment In its favour. Imports, distribution 
and their pricing will be made by the STC 
as per the connected policy of the 
Government in the Ministry of Chemi¬ 
cals and Fertilizers:— 

(1) Acetyl salicylic acid. 

(2) Amoxaclllln (including Amoxa- 
cillln Trihydratc) excluding 
Amoxaclllln sodium. 

(3) Ampiclllin trihydratc and Am- 
pidllin anbydrona excluding 
Ampiclllin sodium. 

(4) 6—APA. 

(5) Chloroquin phosphate and di¬ 
phosphate excluding chloro¬ 
quin sulphato. 

(6) Doxycycllne base, its hydrate/ 
hydato/hydrochloride/calcium 
complex and intermediates thereof 

(7) Dapsone di-amlno diphenyl 
sulphone 

(8) Erythromycin (base), erythro¬ 
mycin cstolate and erythro¬ 
mycin stearate, excluding Fry* 
thromycln ethyl succinate. 


(9) Ethambutol. 

< 10) Methyi dopa. 


Oils/Seeds 

5. In the case of Ihe following items, 
whether edible or non-edible, import will 
be made by the State Trading Corpora¬ 
tion of India (STC) / Hindustan Vege¬ 
table Oils Corporation, New Delhi (A 
Govt, of India Undertaking) under Open 
General Liecence on the basis of foreign 
exchange released by the Government 


541.7904 29.16 

541.3909 29.44 

in its favour. Imports, distribution and 
their pricing will be made by the STC/ 
Hindustan Vegetable Oils Corporation, 
New Delhi as per the connected policy of 
the Government, in the Ministry of Food 
and Civil Supplies, Department of Civil 
Supplies:— 



541.3909 

29.44 

(1) Coconut oil. 

424.3000 

15 07 

NSC 

29.44 

(2) Copra. 

223.1000 

12.01 



(3) Groundnut oil. 

423.4/22.1 

15.07 
12 01 

541.7911 

29,35 

(4) Palm oil (all types. Including palm 
olein and other fractions)/ 
Palm seeds. 

223.2000/ 

424.2000 

12.01/ 

15.07 

NSC 

29.44 

(5) Rapeseed oil/seeds. 

222.6000 

423.9100 

12.01 

15.07 

541.7924 


(6) Safflower oil/seeds. 

223.8008 

424.9038 

12.01 

15.07 

541.3902/ 

29.44 

(7) Soyabean oil/seeds. 

222.2000 

423.2000 

12.01 

15.07 

7103 

NSC 

NSC 

29.23 

29.23 

(8) Sunflower oil ; and 

(9) Cotton seed oils. 

222.4000 

423.6000 

222.3000 

423.3000 

12.01 

15.07 

12.01 

15.07 






1S8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1—Sbc. 1] 


APPENDIX 5 PART-B —Cone Id. 


IT R*v. 1 CCCN 
Cod* No, Cod* No. 


Al] other oils/seeds, whether edible or 
non-edible including vegetable fats, not 
Bpoclflcally mentioned above or elsewhere 
In this policy, (but excluding Tung oil/ 
China Wood oil and natural essential oils) 
will also be imported only by STC/Hindu- 
stan Vegetable Oils Corporation, New 
Delhi under these provisions. 


ITC-Rev. 2 CCCN 
Cod* Code 

STC as per the connected policy of Gov¬ 
ernment in the Ministry of Industry and 
Company Affaire, 

(/) Laurie Add 431.3 15.10 

(if) Oleic Add 513.7916 29.14 


Newsprint 


6. In the case of newsprint, import will 
bo made onlv bv the State Trading Cor¬ 
poration of India (STQ under Open Gen¬ 
eral Licence on tho basis of foreign ex¬ 
change released by the Government in its 
favour. Imports, distribution and pricing 044/045/ 
will be made by the STC as per the con- 042/041/ 
nectod policy of Government in the Min- 043 
istry or Information and Broadcasting. 


; 10 , 01 / 

.02.03 



(iff) Stearic Add 
(tv) Palmitic Add 
(v) Palm Fatty Add 
(vt) Palm Add Oil 
( vti) Palm Kernel Oil 
(vid) Palm Stearine 


.7917 

.7923 


424.4000 15.07 
431.2009 15.10 


Cereals 

7. In the case of cereals, import will 
be made only by the Food Corporation 
of India (FC1) under Open General Lic¬ 
ence On the basis of foreign exchange re¬ 
leased by the Government in its favour. 

Imports, distribution and pridng will be 
made by FCI as per the connected policy 
of Government in tho Ministry of Food 
and Civil Supplies (Deptt. of Food). 

Cement Including Clinker but excluding 
Oil Well Cement required by ONGC/ 

Oil India Limited. 661,2 25.23 

8. In tho case of cement including 
clinker but excluding Oil Well Cement 
required by ONGC/Oil India Limited, 
the import will be made only by the State 
Trading Corporation of India (STC), 
under Open General Licence, on the basis 
of foreign exchange released by the 
Government in Its favour. Imports, dis¬ 
tribution and pricing will be made by the 
STC as per the connected policy of 
Government In the Ministry of Industry 
and Company Affairs. 


Fatty Adds and Acid Oils. 

9. In the case of the following items, 
Import will be made only by the State 
Trading Corporation of India (STC). 
under Open General Licence on the basis 
of foreign exchange released by the Gov¬ 
ernment in its favour. Imports, distri¬ 
bution and pricing will be made by the 


(lx) Other Fatty Adds, pure or mixed 
including Add Oils, all types 

431 3 

15.10 

( x) Soap stocks 

NSC 

15.17 

(xl) Tallow amines including primary, 
secondary, tertiary and quarter- 
nary 

NSC 

NSC 

(xli) Hydrogenated tallow amines, inc¬ 
luding primary, secondary, tertiary, 
and quartemary NSC 

NSC 

(xlil) Oleyl amines Including primary, 
secondary, tertiary and quarter¬ 
nary 

NSC 

NSC 


(xlv) Stoaryl amines including primary, 

secondary, tertiary and quarternary NSC NSC 


Nutmeg/MaCS 075.240/ 0.908 

j.2402 


10. In the case of Nutmog/ninco. the 
import will be made only by the National 
Agricultural Co-operative Marketing 
Federation of India (NAFED), New 
Delhi, under Open General Licence on 
the basis of foreign exchange released by 
the Government in its favour. Imports, 
distribution and pridng will be made by 
the NAFED as per the connected policy 
of Government in the Ministry of Agri¬ 
culture and Rural Development. 


Note i— 


1. ITC Rev. 2 and CCCN code number* have been assigned to facilitate collection of data only, 

2. These will be reproduced on ths bills of entry Oiled by tbs Importer and on licences whenever issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs authorities for cl a ss ifi c at ion foi tariff purposes, 

4. The Interpretation of the Impoit-Export policy will, bowsvei, oontlnus to be as per description of the Items given In thi* 
Appendix and not according to the cods Numbiti uatgned. 

3. "NSC" stands fo* 'Not geparatsiy Clasah.ed*. 



[wft I—i] 


<rrar tt Tnro*; «r«iw R y»i 


159 


„ APPENDIX 6 

IMPORT OF ITEMS UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 

The categories of Importers, the items allowed to be Imported by them under Open General Licence and ttcj 
conditions governing their importation are set out below i— 


Items 


1, Raw materials, components and consumables (non¬ 
iron and steel items) other than those included in the 
Appendices 2, 3 Part-A, 5 and 8. 

2, Iron and steel items other than those included in the 
Appendices 2,3 Part-B and 5 Pari-A. 

3. Capital Goods covered by Appendix 1 Part-B 

4 . Permissible spares (i.e., items other than those inclu¬ 
ded In Appendices 2, 3 Part-A, 8 and 10). 

3. Raw materials, components, consumables, machi¬ 
nery, equipment, instruments, accessories, tools and 
spares excluding office machines. 


6. Jigs, fixtures, dies and patterns, moulds (including 
moulds for (liecasting), and press tools (other than 
those in Appendices 1 Part-A, 2 and 3 Part-A) and parts 
thereof. 

7. Teaching Aids, the following : 

(0 Microfilms and Microfiches of educational 
nature, with or without readers cum-printers; and 
(H) Film strips/slides of educational nature with or 
without audio cassettes; audio casscues/video 
tapes of educational nature and video discs of 
educational nature, 

8. Computcr/Computer based system costing below 
Rs. 10 Lakhs (c.i.f.). 

9. Spares for computer system* 

10. Poultry vaccines, all typ:s. 

11. Raw materials, components, consumables, machinery, 
equipment, instruments, accessories, tools and spares. 


12 Capital Goods, components, materials, consum¬ 
ables and spares 

13. Any Item required as raw material, component, 
consumable (including consumable tools) or spares, 
la the manufacture/repair of ship (other than those 
items appearing in Appendices 1 Part A, 2, 3 and 5. 


14. Capital Goods/machlutny. 


Categories of eligible importers 
Actual Users (Industrial) 


Actual Users (Industrial) and Oil Refineries. 


Actual Users (Industrial and Non-Industrial). 

Actual Users (Industrial and Non-Industrial). 

Research and Development units, scientific or research 
laboratories, institutions of higher education and 
hospitals, recognised by the Central or a State 
Government. 

Actual Users (Industrial). 


Recognised educational, scientific, technical and 
research institutions, libraries of such institutions, 
Central or State Government departments, industrial 
units engaged in Research and Development work, 
registered medical institutions, hospitals, consultants, 
recognised Chambers of Grmmerce, Producitvity 
Councils, management associations and professional 
bodies. 

By all persons for their own use. 

Actual Users and others at permitted in Chapter VI 

Poultry farms/liatcberles approved by the Department 
of Agriculture and Cooperation, New Delhi. 

Oil & Natural Gas Commission (ONGC)/Oil India 
Ltd.,/Gas Authority of India Ltd, (GAIL), Bharat 
Gold Mines Ltd., and those public sector under¬ 
takings receiving off-shore/on-shore contracts from 
ONGC/OU India Ltd./GAIL, as per conditions 
stipulated. 

Ship repairing ouiU, registered with Director General 
of Shipping, Bombay (working in customs bonded 
promise*)) 

Industrial undertakings engaged in ship-building, 
repairing, subject to Actual User condition. In respect 
of electronic items, prior clearance of the Department 
of Electronics, New Delhi, as required under the 
Import policy would be obtained and produced to the 
customs authority at the time of clearance. 

M/s Oual India Ud, 

M/s, Neyvell Lignite Coiporatiun Ltd. 

M/s. Bharat Coking Coal Ltd 
M/s. Centra! Coalfields Ltd 





160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1' Sec. I] 


APPENDIX 6— eontd. 


Item* 


Categories of eligible importers 


15. Machinery, equipment, testing apparatus, tools and 
implements required for gem and jewellery industry 
as per Ljst 1 of this Appendix. 


; 6. Medical gas cylinders 10.2 litres and below water 
capacity. 


17. CO a Gas cylinders upto 15 litres water capacity for 
fire extinguishers. 

18. Greases/lubricating oils 


M/s. Eastern Coalfields Ltd. 

M/s. Western Coalfields Ltd. 

M/s. Central Mine Planning & Design Institute Ltd. 
M/s. Singarcni Collieries Company Ltd. 

Registered Exporters of Gem and Jewellery, Coopera¬ 
tive societies of goldsmiths and artisans and Export 
Promotion Council for Gem and Jewellery for use 
in the Institutes set up by the Council and Regional 
Training Institutions connected with Gem and 
Jewellery industry. 

Actual Users (Industrial) having Industrial Licence/ 
Registration for manufacture of medical gas (oxygen) 
and/or Nitrous Oxide and living valid licence 
issued under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, 

Actual Users (Industrial) having Industrial Licence/ 
Registration for manufacture of fire extinguishers. 

Actual Users (Industrial) provided cif value of such 
goods imported in a financial year shall not exceed 
Rs. 10,000 subject to production of "No-Objection 
Certificate” from Indian Oil Corporation, Marketing 
Division, Bombay. 


19. Drugs and medicines. 


20. (a) Medical including surgical, optical and dental’ 
instruments, apparatus and appliances and 
replacement parts and accessories thereof | and 
dental materials. 

0) Sutures and necaica for surgical purposes, as 
per List 5 of this Appendix 


21.X-Ray intensifying screens. 


22. Scientific and measuring instruments and chemicals. 


23. Testing equipment testing instruments and chemicals 


" (1) By hospitals or medical institutions for their own 
use, provided the c.i.f. value of such good* 

Imported at any one time shall not exceed 

twentyfivc thousand rupees j 

(2) By any Individual for his personal use provided 

the c.i.f. value of such goods imported at any 

one time shall not exceed one thousand rupee#) 

and 

(3) By registered medical practitioners for their own 
professional use provided the c.i.f. value of such 
goods Imported at any one time shall not exceed 
rupees five thousand. 

(/) By hospital or medical institutions for their own 
use, provided the c.i.f. value of such goods impor¬ 
ted shall not exceed two lakh rupees m a financial 
yearj 

(U) By registered medical practitioners for their own 
use, provided the c.i.f. value of such goods impor¬ 
ted shall not exceed five thousand rupees in a 
financial year. 

By hospitals and radiological clinics for their own 
use, provided the c.i.f. value of such goods imported 
at any one time shall not exceed fifty thousand 
rupees. 

By professionals in the fields of science, technology 
engineering and medicine, for their own purposes 
(to which effect evidence shall be produced to the 
customs authorities), provided the c.i.f. value of such 
goods imported shall not exceed ten thousand rupees 
in a financial year. 

Testing laboratories approved under the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940, of a total value not exceeding 
Rs. 50,000 (o.i.f.) in a year for their own use on 
production of recommendation of State Drugs 
Controller. 



[«TFT I —WT l] 


*irar vr zmst ■ *rcrra k»i 


161 


APPENDIX 6— Contd. 


Items 


Categories of eligible Importers 


24 V'n 1 parts of motor vehicles and agricultural tractors. 


25. Amateur radio communication equipment including 
kits, accessories (including antenna, retarary motors, 
feed lines, standing wave ratio bridge) instruments, 
spares and components. The equipment is to conform 
within the following frequency ranges and power 
limitations. 


1. High frequency (H.F.) 


By person* owning imported vehicle/agricuiturai 
tractor upto a c.i.f. value of five thousand rupee* In 
a financial year, for their own use. 

By licensed radio amateurs for their own purpose 
(evidence shall be produced to the Customs authori¬ 
ties to this effect), provided the ci.f. value of such 
goods imported in a financial year does not exceed 
Rs. 15,000. Goods imported shall not be trans¬ 
ferred to any individual or party without prior 
rmission of the Wireless Planning & Coordination 
ing of the Ministry of Communication, Govt, 
of India. 


Meter 

Band 

Frequency range 

Output 
power limit 

160 m 

1.8 to 2.0 Mhz 

150 Watts 

80 m 

3.5 to 4.0 Mhz 

150 

40 m 

7.0 to 7.5 Mhz 

150 „ 

20 m 

14.0 to 14.50 Mhz 

150 „ 

15 m 

21.0 to 21.50 Mhz 

150 „ 

10 to 

28.0 to 30.00 Mhz. 

130 „ 

11. Very High Frequency (VHP) 


2 m 

144 to 146 Mhz 

25 Watts. 

ID. Ultra High Frequency (UHF) 


70 eras 

430 to 440 Mhz. 

25 watts. 


Note : The H.F. transreceivers also incorporate either 
10 Mhz or in 15 Mhz standard frequency reception 
facility for calibration purposes. 

26. Gibberellic Acid 

► 

27. Grape Guard Paper , 


State agricultural development corporations, coope¬ 
rative societies of farmers and Associations of farmers 
recognised by the State Government, for distribution 
to grape growers. 


28. Broken Electric motors. 

29. Electromagnetic Water conditioning system. 


30. Photographic chemicals—developers, fixers, Intenslfiers, 
reducers, toners and cleaning agents. 


31. Instruments and equipment required by tho blind, in¬ 
cluding Braille typewriters. 

32. Educational, scientific and technical books and jour¬ 
nals, news-magazines and newspapers (vide list 7). 

33. Life saving equipment as per List 2 of this Appendix, 
and their spares. 


Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd. for supply of 
salvage materials to actual users. 

Local bodies (Municipal Corporations etc.). Govern¬ 
ment Departments and other Public Sector Under¬ 
takings. 

(I) Actual Users registered under tho local law 
applicable to Shops & Establishments. 

(If) Studios film processing laboratories and testing 
. laboratories certified as such by tbc State 
Director of Industry. 

By all persons. 

By all persons. 


By all persons. 





162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX o—contd 


Item* 


-- 

Categories of eligible Importer* 


34. Family welfare equfpment/instruments, tpplianoe^. 
namely the following :— 

(!) (a) Laprosoopej (b) Culdscopej (c) Hysteroscopc j 
(d) Vacuum suction apparatus; (e) as well as 
their accessories and spares; 

(It) Rubber contraceptives (diaphragms only). 

(lii) Intrauterine Contraceptive Devices (other than y 
the Lippes' Loop ana Cu-T200), coloured con- | 
doms, diaphragms, jelly and foam tablets, as i 
approved by the Drugs Controller (India), New | 
Delhi. j 

(tv) Palopc rings (silastic bands). j 

33. Finished drug preparations, life saving and anti¬ 
cancer drugs, as per List 3 of this Appendix. 

36 Homoeopathic medicines In finished form or Homo¬ 
eopathic drugs (single) in basic form and/or of any 
potency, including “Sugar of Milk" In bulk and blo- 
chemic medicines. 


37. Crude drugs required for making Ayurvedic and 
Unani medicines as per List 4 of this Appendix(Im- 
port of jade, pearls, and corals will be allowed 
only in powder form and of non-jewellery quality 
only). 

38. Pulses. 

39. Spioes, the following |— 

(1) Cinnamon/Cassia. 

(2) Clovci, 

40 Dates (wel or dry) Imported by Indian lailing vetsela, 

41 Rock Sail. 

42. (/) X-ray films (medical) the following;— 

(!) Cine angiographic films. 

(2) Copying films (for Copying X-Ray 
radiograph) 

(3) Dental X Ray film 

4) Films for use without vcrreni 

5) Lo-dose mammographic film*. 

6) Mass miniature film. 

7) 35 mm negative and re venal type* for 
duplicating film* 

(8) Personal monitoring film* 

(9) Special type* of X-Ray film* used 
changers 

(10) X-ray film* for oat Scanner* 

(«) Aerographic film*. 

(Wf) Photo-type-setting R.C./*tebiU»atlon paper. 

(If) Thermographic polymid railing and embossing j 

S iwder for printing Industry I 

lerofile films I 

(vtj Infra-red and Ultra-violet film*. I 

(vH) Kidney furgerj film*. J 


foi 


i 

y 


43. Rudraksha bead* 

44. Lubrlcalliig Oils for watebe*, docks and time piece* 
and bouse service meter*. 


By all person*. 


By all person*. 
By all persons. 


By all persons. 


By all person*. 
By all persons. 


By all persons. 
By all persona. 


By all person*. 


By all persona. 
By all persona. 





wrm »ft wnt: wu i v rtsi 


[itpt I—STT 1] 


163 


aPFBNUXX 6 —(cortld ) 


Item i 


45. (a) Non-fictional educational and instructional films, ' 
(including video films) certified by the Central Board 
of Film Certification to be “pre-dominantly educational 
and non-fictional". 

► 

(b) Fictional, educational and instructional films in 
16 mm gauge of 800 meters or less in length, certified by 
the Central Board of Film Certification to be “pre¬ 
dominantly educational”. 

v 

46 Spares, except those included in the Appendices 1 
2, 3, Part-A, 8 and 10. of: — 

(1) Printing machinery. 

(2) Machine tools for cutting, forming, abrading 
and polishing metals, wood, glass and plastics 
including any standard or ancillary equipment. 

(3) Cinematographic equipment including the - 
following :— 

(/) picture and sound printing lamps, 

(in projection lamps—Xenon or tungsten, 

(Hi) lenses/room lenses including cinemascope 
lenses, and 

(/v) projection volume Indicators. 

(4) Trawlers, 

47. Energy saving/conservation equipment. Including 
systems and devices working on/used for 
Renewable and Alternate sources of energy, the 
following :— 

(f) Wind driven generators. 1 

(H) Solar Energy equipment 
(Hi) Parabolic focussing systems of the automatic 
electronic tracking type, Including photo¬ 
electric sensors, 

(tv) Portable exhaust gas and combustion analysers 
(v) Steam trap leak detector. 

(vt) Ultrasonic leak deta for. 

(Wt) Solar heat control films. 

48 . Ozone Generating Apparatus 

49 . Photographic film (colour) 

50. Smoke meters—Hartridge and Bosch types—for 
automobile exhaust. 

51. Exhaust Gas Analysers for measurement of CO, 
HC, NOX, C02 (one or more of these pollutants) 
coming from vehicular exhaust—for automobile 
exhaust 

52. Photographic colour paper. 

53 Photographic films (black and white) other than uo 
and 620 sine rolls. 

54. Cinematographic films, not exposed the following!— 

(0 8 mm (c<'i nr) and 
(II) 8 ruru (Hi Kit a»d whHe-ueg*rWti). 

55. Dental Item* as pc* 6 of thi< Appcndla. 

56. Ophthalmic items as per list 9 of this Appendix 
67. Records for learning of languages, 

58 Fishing hooks. 

59. Out-board Motors opto 10 HP 


Categories of eligible Importers 


By all persons. 


By all persons. 


By all Persons. 


By all persons. 
By all persons. 
By all persons. 

By all persons. 


By all persons. 
By all persons. 

By all persons. 


By all person*. 
By all persons. 
By all persons. 
By all persons, 
By all persons. 



164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX 6 — Contd. 


Conditions governing Imports under Open 
General Licence 


importer shall import the following minimum confi¬ 
guration in one consignment:— 


(1) Actual Users importing Capital Goods, jigs 
etc., raw materials, components, consumables and 
spare 
shall 
undei 

the conditions laid down. Actual Users shall also 
ensure that their imports under OGL are strictly in 
accordance with their phased manufacturing prog- 
rammes and the conditions of their industrial licences/ 
registrations with the sponsoring authorities con¬ 
cerned. 

(2) In the case of Capital Goods listed in Appen¬ 
dix 1 Part B, and Jigs, fixtures etc., vide item No. 6 
in this Appendix, import of second-hand items may 
also be allowed under OGL, subject to the conditions 
laid down in the policy. 

(3) In the case of Capital Goods, eligible Actual 
User may import the following also:— 

(a) Spares of the relevant Capital Goods (whether 
of the permissible or restricted types) 
upto 10% of the value of the main equip¬ 
ment j 


s, as are covered under Open General Licence, 
be subject to “Actual User’ condition. Imports 
r OGL should be made only in conformity with 


Each Central Processing Unit will include — 

(0 Operating System Software and adequate 
memory therefor. 

(H) Computer console. 

(Hi) Two disk/cartridge/tape drives and associat¬ 
ed controller (excluding floppy and cassette 
drives). 

(iv) One printer with Platon width 80 print 
positions or more per line. 

Import of second-hand computer/computer 
based system shall not be allowed. 

(6) In the case of machinery, equipment etc. for 
gam & jewellery, nde List I of this Appendix— 

(a) Import of second-nand items may also be 
allowed under OGL, subject to the same con¬ 
ditions as have been laid down in the policy 
for Import of second-hand items of other 
OGL Capital Good*] 


(h) Accessories and toolings required for the 
operation of the relevant capital goods, upto 
10% of the value of the main equipment. If 
such accessories/ toolings are required for a 
value more than 10%, the Actual User should 
obtain written clearance from the.DGTD, 
New Delhi, indicating the actual value upto 
which such accessories/toolings may be allow¬ 
ed for the main equipment under OGL, 
and produce the same to the Customs 
Authority for clearance. 

(c) Import of standard accessories which are 
essential part of the main equipment and are 
required for its operation, without which the 
machine cannot function, may be allowed to 
be imported under OGL with the main 
equipment without being restricted to 10% 
value limit. 

id) Spates, accessories and toolings under these 
provisions may be allowed to be imported 
either alongwith the main equipment or 
subsequent thereto, but not before file arrival 
of the main equipment. 

(4) In the case of jigs, fixtures, etc, vide item No. 
6 in this Appendix, the eligible Actual User may 
Import spares (whether of the permissible or restricted 
type) upto 5% of the value of the main item. 


(A) Import of supporting spares of these equip¬ 
ment etc. may be allowed upto 5% of the 
main equipment. 

(7Xa)Research and Development units, scientific o» 
research laboratories. Institutions of higher education 
and hospitals, recognised by the Central or a State 
Government should ensure that only the essential 
items required for their own bona fide purpose are 
imported. Import of no consumer goods, howsoever 
described, will be allowed against this facility. Import 
of office machines will not be allowed. Also import 
of items covered by Entry No. 607(32) in Appendix 
3 Part-A will not be allowed.Besides only Research and 
Development units and scientific or research labora¬ 
tories may import prototypes/samples and pilot plant 
items. (In the case of import of the live and attenua¬ 
ted micro organism in any form for R & D purposes, 
prior permission from the Animal Husbandry 
Commissioner to the Government of India in the 
Department of Agriculture & Cooperation should be 
produced to the satisfaction of the Customs authori¬ 
ties at the time of clearance). 


(V) Import of Computers/Computcr-based systems 
and spares for computers will be allowed to eligible 
R&D Units etc., as referred to above, as per the policy 
applicable to other Actual Users. 


(5) In the case of computer/computer based 
system costing below Rs. 10 lakhs (c.i.f.) vide item 
No. 8 above, import will be allowed by all persons, 
for their own use (but not for stock & sale purpose), 
subject to the Actual User Condition. The concerned 


(c) R&D units etc. importing their requirements 
under Open General Licence shall furnish periodical 
returns of the imports made as prescribed by the 
Department of Science & Technology under intima¬ 
tion to Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 



OthtI— 1 ] 


•nrx tt ww; «miwi on 


165 


APPENDIX a—Coma. 


E (8) In the case of Capital Goods, equipment and 
jnnlssible spares covered under Open General 
icence, vide Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 13 and 14 above, 
If the eligible Actual User importer enters into d 
firm contract for import upto the last date of February 
of the licensing year, but the goods cannot 
be shipped on or before 31st March of the 
licensing year on account of the longer 
delivery period involved, the shipment may be allowed 
upto 31st March of the following licensing year 
in pursuance of such firm contract, provided the 
contract, in question, is duly registered with a foreign 
exchange dealer (Bank) on or before the last date of 
February of the licensing year. (In specific 
cases, where the delivery period is still longer, CCI&E, 
New Delhi may allow shipment under OGL upto a 
further extended date in consultation with the tech¬ 
nical authorities concerned). 

(9) In the case of Capital Goods, components, 
raw materials, consumables and spares vide item 
No. 12 above, by the Customs bonded Ship repairing 
units, registered with Director General of Shipping, 
Bombay, import will be subject to the conditions that 
the Imported goods shall be used In the repair of 
ocean going vessels, whether Indian or foreign, in the 
customs-bonded premises and subject to the other 
condition Indicated In the registration certificate. 


(13) Imports of non-canalised man-made fibres, 
tow and yams, under Open General Licence may 
also be made by the State Trading Corporation of 
India (STC), New Delhi for distribution to eligible 
Actual Users subject to the condition regarding prior 
registration of contracts with the Textile Commissio¬ 
ner as laid down in (11) above. 

(14) In the case of educational, scientific and tech¬ 
nical books the following conditions shall apply :— 

(/) Import will not be permitted by any one 
importer (including his branches) of more 
than 1000 copies of a single title during the 
licensing period without the prior written 
clearance of the Ministry of Education, 
New Delhi. This restriction will not, how¬ 
ever, apply to the English Language Books 
Society titles and books under the Joint 
Indo-Soviet Text Books Programme | 

(tt) Import of foreign editions of books for which 
editions of authorised Indian reprints are 
available will not be allowed] 

(Iff) Import of foreign reprints of Indian publica¬ 
tions will not be allowed without a specific 
prior written permission of the Ministry of 
Education* New Delhi. 


(10) In tile case of Insecticides, pesticides and 
woedkidcs, the Actual User (Industrial) concerned 
shall, within seven days of the clearance of each con¬ 
signment, Intimate to the Department of Agriculture 
& co-opration (Plant Protection Division) New Delhi, 
particulars of the items Imported, the quantity and the 
c.l.f. value thereof 

(11) Ir> the ease of ah man-made fibres, tow end 
yams allowed to bo Imported under Open General 
Licence, all eligible Importers, Actual Users (Indus¬ 
trial) and others, shall be roqulrod to register their 
contracts with the Textile Commissioner, Bombay 
Imports shall be made only after the connected con¬ 
tracts have been stamped by the Textile Commissio¬ 
ner, Bombay as evidence of such registration, For 
this purpose, two copies of the contract should be 
lodged with the Textile Commissioner and he will 
return one copy to the Importer duly stamped on each 
page, for production to the customs at the time of 
clearance of goods. At the time of registration of a 
subsequent contract, the eligible importer should also 
furnish a statement indicating the progress made in 
Import and utilisation/disposal of the imported 
material fa respect of all the contracts earlier registered 
for faformation/record of the Registering authority. 

(12) In the case of raw wool/greasy wool/scoured 
wool, not carded or combed, angora goat hair 
(mohair), woollen rags/synthetic rags/shoddy wool 
in completely pre-muItilated condition, allowed to 
be imported under Open General Licence, the 
Import contract shall be registered with the Textile 
Commissioner in the same manner, as laid down fa 
condition (11) above. 


(fv) Import of only such navigational charts of 
Indian coastlines will be allowed as arc 
specifically cleared* by the Chief Hydro- 
grapher to the Government of India, Debra- 
Dun i 


(?) Books, magazines. Journals and pre-recorded 
cassettes containing pornographic material or 
depicting sex, violence, etc. will not be allowed 
for Import 


(rt) Import of unauthorised reprints of books 
published abroad will not be allowed. 

(vtt) Import of records/pre-rccorded cassettes for¬ 
ming an integral part of the book, which are 
of purely educational nature, can be made 
by institutions subject to the condition that 
the supplier has certified that records/prc- 
recorded cassettes form an integral part of 
the book and the connected invoice indi¬ 
cates the details of records/pre-recordcd 
cassettes. 


At the time of clearance through Customs, the 
Importer shall furnish a declaration to the effect that 
the books imported do not include those which 
are not allowed as per import policy, 1985-88. 

(15) In the case of poultry vaccines, the import 
shall be subject to the following additional 
conditions t— 

(0 The Importer Bhall, at the time of clearance of 
goods from the customs, furnish a specific 
recommnedation from Animal Husbandry 



166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6— Com*. 


Commissioner to the Government of India. 
Department of Agriculture, & Cooperation 
New Delhi regarding the essentiality of the 
material (descnption/quantity/value) to the 
party concerned j 

(ff) The importer concerned shall, within 15 days 
from the date of the clearance of the consign* 
ment from Customs, intimate to the Depart¬ 
ment of Agriculture and Cooperation, 
New Delhi, particulars of the items imported, 
the quantity and the c.i.f. value thereof i 

(Hi) The Imported material shall be subject to 
“Actual User" condition at the hands of the 
poultry farm/hatchery concerned. 

(16) (a). In the case of Dates, Import will also 
bo allowed In traditional small packing. This will 
not, however, apply to spices, etc. 

(b) Import of Homoeopathic medicines, anti— 
cancer drugs, life-saving drugs and crude drugs 
permitted unacr Open General Licence, can be made 
in small packing also. 

(17) The facility for import of permissible spares 
under OGL available to Actual Users, can also be 
availed of by shipping companies and Port Trusts 
governed by the Port Trusts Act, 1963 for opeiation 
and maintenance of craft and equipment. 

(18) The facility for import of permissible spares 
under OGL available to Actual Users, can also be 
availed of by Hotels (One Star to Five Star) and 
Restaurants (independent of Hotel) approved by the 
Department of Tourism, Government of India 
New Delhi, for operation and maintenance of the 
equipment used therein. 

(19) The facility for Import of permissible spares 
under OGL available to Actual Users, can also be 
availed of by j 

(1) Cinematographic film studios which have 
been registered for at least three years 
under the local law applicable to Shop* 
and Establishments! and 

(«) Establishments holding a licence for at 
least three years under the local law relat- 
ting to exhibition of cinematographic films 
to the publlo at authorised premise*. 

(20) Import of raw materials, components and 
consumables, vide items (1) and (2) above, is allowed 
under Open General Licence to Actual Users (In¬ 
dustrial) in accordance with the conditions laid 
down. However, in respect of certain items, out of 
these, import under OGL can also be made by others, 
apart from Actual Users. This U with a view to facili¬ 
tate off-the-shelf supply of the required inputs for 
small Industries through stock and sale. (Please see 
Ust 8 In this Appendix) 


(21) In the case of raw materials, components, 
consumables permissible for import under OGL 
by Actual Users (Industrial) vide items 1 and 2 above, 
the eligible Actual Users may be allowed to effect 
shipment upto 30th June of the following licensing 
year against firm orders for which irrevocable letters 
of credit are opened and established on or before 
the last date of February of the licensing year. 
This facility Will also be available in the case of raw 
materials allowed for import under OGL by all 
persons, where the importer is Actual User (Industrial) 
add imports the goods for use in his factory with 
'Actual User” condition. 

22. (a) All Actual Users at the time of clearance 
of goods shall furnish to die customs authority a 
declaration giving particulars of their Industrial 
Licence or Registration as an Actual User with the 
concerned authorities namely, the number and date 
of the Industrial Licence/Registiation and the end- 
productfs) of manufacture, and affirming that 
(I) the Industrial Lfccnce/Re;Hstration has not been 
cancelled or withdrawn or otherwise made in-opera¬ 
tive and (ii) the items imported under OGL are 
strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of their industrial llcence/registration with the spon¬ 
soring authority concerned as an industrial unit and 
their approved phased manufacturing programme. 
In case no phased manufacturing programme has been 
approved for them, they should say so in the declara¬ 
tion. In cases, where separate registration number is 
not allotted by the sponsoring authority concerned, 
the Importer* shall produce other evidence to the 
satisfaction of the customs authorities that they are 
registered as industrial units and eligible to the Import 
made. Actual Users (Industrial) shall also furnish, 
at the time of clearance of goods, a certified copy of 
phased manufacturing programme, if any, approved 
tor them by the spons 'ring authority or other coo- 
cei tied «n*hori*v 

(d) Actual Users (Industrial) registered with 
DGTD/Textilc Commissioner, and subject to a 
phased manufacturing programme, shall also furnish 
a list of components at the time of clearance through 
the customs, duly attested by DGTD/Toxtile Commi¬ 
ssioner or a declaration of their own, where the 
list furnished to the DGTD/Textilc Commissioner 
for attestation was not received by the Actual User 
within the stipulated period of 30 days, as laid down 
In the List Attestation Procedure in Chapter V of 
this Book 

(c) All Industrial Units In large scale sector shall 
submit to the DGTD, New Delhi or other sponsoring 
authorities concerned, and the Department of Electro¬ 
nics, New Delhi, as appropriate to the item, periodical 
returns, indicating the description and the value of 
raw materials, components and consumables 
Imported under OGL. Industrial units in the small 
scale sector should send similar returns to the regional 
licensing authorities concerned. These returns shall 
be furnished a* on 30th September, and 31st March 




[urn I—art 1] 


167 


APPENDIX 6 —Conid. 


of the licensing year. Each such return shall be fur¬ 
nished within 15 days of the close of the period 
Indicated. 

(d) In the case of spares imported under OGL, 
the Actual Users shall furnish periodical returns 
as on 30th September, and 31st March of the 
licensing year to (i) sponsoring authorities concerned 
in the case of Industrial units in the large scale sector, 
and (ii) regional import licensing authorities concerned, 
in the case of other Actual Users, Indicating (a) the 
total c.i.f. value of items imported and (b) descrip¬ 
tion of such of the Items Imported of whicn the total 
c.i.f. value exceeds Rs. 2 lakhs. Each such return 
shall be furnished within 15 days of the close of the 
period Indicated. 

(e) In the case of Capital Goods Imported under 
OGL, the Actual Users shall furnish periodical returns 
in the proforma prescribed in Appendix—HI-K of the 
Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures 1985-88 to 
the Director of Statistics, Office of the Chief Controller 
of Imports & Exports, Now Delhi, giving the descrip¬ 
tion of Capital Goods and their c.i.f. value as on 
30th September and 31st March of the licensing 
year. Each such return sh all be furnished within 
15 days of the close of the period indicated. 

(23) Actual Users (Non-Industrial) shall at the 
time of clearance of the goods, furnish to the customs 
authorities, the original or a photostat copy of the 
(currently valid) Registration Certificate held by them 
under the Shops and Establishments Act, Cinemato¬ 
graphic Act or concerned local statute. 

(24) Export Houses A Trading Houses are not 
allowed to Import those Items of raw materials, com¬ 
ponents and consumables which can be imported 
under Open General Licence by Actual Users 
(Industrial) only, vide Part I of List No. 8 In this 
Appendix In the case of components, however, a 
dispensation has been allowed subject to certain 
condition* and procedure* laid down In Chapter XXI 
of this Book. 

(25) For Import of permissible spares under OGL, 
the eligible Actual Users importer shall furnish a dec¬ 
laration to the customs authority at the time of clear¬ 
ance that the spares imported are required for opera¬ 
tion and maintenance of the machinery Installed or In 
use by him as on 1st April of the licensing year. 

(26) Registered Exporters of Gem and Jewellery 
will furnish to the Customs authorities at the time 
of clearance of goods, a declaration giving particulars 
of their registration as an exporter with the Gem and 
Jewellery Export Promotion Council and affirming 
that such registration has not been cancelled or with¬ 
drawn or otherwise made Inoperative. A Co-opera¬ 
tive Society of goldsmiths and artisans and Regional 
Training Institutions connected with Gem and 
Jewellery industry will, likewise, furnish a declaration 
about its registration as a co-operative Society, etc. 


(27) In the case of medical Instruments, etc., spare 
parts of motor vehicles and agricultural tractors and 
scientific instruments etc., vide items 20, 22 24, and 
25 the eligible importer shall, at the time of 
clearance, be required to give a declaration to the 
customs authorities to the effect that the c.i.f. value 
of such goods already imported during the same 
financial year does not exceed the respective ma xim u m 
value limi t laid down. 

(28) In the case of spare parts of motor vehicles 
and agricultural tractors vide item No. 24 above, the 
importer shall also produce to the customs authorities 
at the tima of clearance the valid registration certificate 
for the vehicle or tractor concerned, with evidence 
of up-to-date payment/exemption of taxes under the 
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939. 

(29) In the case of raw cashew-nnts, it shall be a 
condition that, the import contract shall also be regis¬ 
tered by the importer with the Cashew Corporation 
of India within a period of 7 days of its execution. 

(30) Export Houses and Trading Houses which 
may be importing raw cashewnuts against their REP/ 
Additional licences under the Import policy in force, 
for distribution to Actual Users (Processing Units), 
shall register their import contract with the Cashew 
Cor-poration of India within a period of 7 days of 
(Is execution. 

(31) Cashew Corporation of India Is also eligible 
to import raw cashewnuts under OGL for distribu¬ 
tion to Actual Users (Processing Units) In accordance 
with the policy in force In this regard. 

(32) In the case of TPA Imports will be 
allowed under OGL by Actual Users (Industrial) 
and other eligible under the policy, only on the 
basis of Import contracts registered with the 
Mini try of Petroleum). Imports shall be made 
only after the connected contracts, have been 
stamped by the Ministry of Petroleum, 
New Delhi as evidence of such registration. For this 
purpose, two copies of the contract should be lodged 
with the Department of Petroleum and they will 
return one copy to the party duly stamped on each 
page for production to the customs at the time of 
clearance of goods. At the time of registration of a 
subsequent contract, the eligible importer should 
also furnish a statement Indicating the progress 
made In Import and utilisatlon/dlsposal of the 
Imported material In respect of the contracts earlier 
registered, for (nformatlon/record of the registering 
authority. 

(33) In the case of soda ash, PVC resins, 
wood pulp, caustic soda, and copper scrap/ 
copper mill scale, vide entries In List 8 of this 
Appendix, all eligible Importers, Actual Users 
(Industrial) and others shall be required to register 
their contracts with the DGTD (Import & 
Export Policy Cell), Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi. 
Import shall be made only after the connected con¬ 
tracts have been stamped by the DGTD as evidence 






168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1J 


APPENDIX 6 Cowd, 


of such registration. For this purpose, two copies of 
the contract should be lodger! with the DGTD and 
they will return one copy to the importer, duly stam¬ 
ped on each page, for production to the customs at 
the time of clearance of goods. At the time of 
registration of a subsequent contract, the eligible 
importer should also furnish a statement indicating 
the progress made in import and utilisation/disposal 
of the imported material in respect of the contracts 
earlier registered, for information/record of the 
registering authority. 


(34) In the caso of Rifampicin, the concerned 
importers shall be required to register their contracts 
with the Joint Secretary and Development Commis¬ 
sioner (Drugs), Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilisers, 
Office of the Development Commissioner (Drugs), 
Shastri Bhawan, New Delhi-110001. Import shall 
be made only after the connected contracts have been 
stamped by the Office of the Development Commis¬ 
sioner (Drugs), as evidence of such registration. For 
this purpose two copies of the contract should be 
lodged with the Office of the Development Com¬ 
missioner (Drugs) and they will return one copy to 
the importer, duly stamped on each page for produc¬ 
tion to the Customs at the time of clearance of goods. 
At the time of registration of a subsequent contract, 
the eligible importer should also furnish a statement 
indicating the progress made in import and utilisation 
of the imported material in respect of contracts 
earlier registered for information/record of the regis¬ 
tering authority. 


(35) In the case of Vitamin B.6 (Pyridoxin HCL/ 
Pyridoxin base) and intermediates of Pyridoxin, 
all eligible importers shall be required to first 
place an order to the extent of 33% of their 
total requirements with M/s. Indian Drugs and 
Pharmaceuticals Limited. Customs will allow 
clearance of the balance requirement namely 67% 
of the concerned importer on the basis of documen¬ 
tary evidence of the firm order placed on M/s. I.D.P.L. 
or Letter of Credit opened in their favour. 


(36) In the case of pulses, all eligible Importers 
shall be required to register their contracts with the 
National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Fe¬ 
deration of India (NAFED). Imports shall be made 
only after the connected contracts have been stamped 
by NAFED as an evidence of such registration. For 
this purposo, two copies of the contract should be 
lodged with the NAFED; they will return one copy 
to the importer, duly stamped on each page, for 
production to the Customs at the time of clearance of 
goods. At the time of registration of a subsequent 
contract, the eligible importer shall also furnish a 
statement, Indicating the progress made In Import 
and utilization/disposai of the Imported material in 
respect of all the contracts earlier registered, for 
information/record of the registering authority. 


(37) . (/) Import of Woollen Rags/shoddy Wool/ 
synthetic rags will be allowed only when these are 
imported in completely pre-mutilated condition. 

(it) Definition of woollen rags Is as follows:-- 

(a) 'New’—waste woollen cloth whether woven 
or knitted which is left after a garment had 
been cut out including genuine tailor cutting 
piece ends, discarded pattern bunches and 
sample bits. 

(ft) ‘Old’—Rags of woollen textile fabrics (in¬ 
cluding knitted and crocheted fabrics), 
which are required for manufacture of shoddy 
yarn and may consist of articles of furnishing 
or clothing or other clothing so worn out, 
soiled or torn as to be beyond cleaning or 
repair. 

(til) The above definition shall also apply mutat s 
mutandis to synthetic rags. 

(38) In the case of all carbon steel and alloy 
steel items importable under Open General Licence, 
the eligible importers—Actual Users (Industrial) 
and others—shall be required to register 
their import contracts with the Iron and Steel Contro¬ 
ller. Calcutta or with any of his regional offices, within 
thirty days from the date of entering into such 
contracts, or the date of shipment of goods, which¬ 
ever is earlier. Imports shall be made only after the 
connected contracts have been stamped by the regis¬ 
tering office of the Iron and Steel Controller as 
evidence of such registration. For this purpose, two 
copies of the contract should be lodged with the 
registering' office of the Iron and Steel Controller and 
they will return one copy to the importer duly stamped 
on each page for production to the customs at the 
time of clearance of goods. At the time of registration 
of a subsequent contract, the eligible importer should 
also furnish a statement indicating the progress, 
made in import and utilisation/disposal of the impor¬ 
ted Tjaterial in respect of the contracts earlier regis¬ 
tered for information/record of the registering autho¬ 
rity 

(39) Importers wanting to have video rights of 
uiucationa) films covered by entry No. 45 above, 
should approach the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting, New Delhi and the R.B.l. for prior 
permission. 

(40) In the case of brass/coppcr pipes and tube<i 
imported as scrap, their size shall not exceed 15 ems 
in length unless they are imported as scrap in 
hydraulically pressed briquettes. 

(41) (a) In the case of medical gas cylinders 
the following conditions shall apply :— 

(/) Imported medical gas cylinders shall be used 
only for medical purpose for compressing 
and supplying medical gas. 








rTTVy TT TWIHT: aiU T V r ru r 


169 


APPENDIX O-‘..OfVM. 


(10 Cylinders and valves fitted thereto to. be 
imported must be of a type as approved by 
the Chief Controller of Explosives and 
accepted for use under the (Ins Cylinders 
Rules. 1981. 

(ill) Cylinders imported should not be used for 
any gas service other than the medical gas 
for a period of 10 years from the date of 
importation, 
t 

(tv) The Importers shall obtain necessary per¬ 
mission from the Chief Controller of Exp¬ 
losives as required under the Gas Cylinders 
Rules, 1981. 

( b ) The conditions referred to In (ii) to (iv) above 
shall also apply in the case of CO, gas cylinders upto 
15 litres water capacity for fire extinguishers. 

(42) In case of Polysilicon, Single crystal Silicon 
Ingots/Bars/Rods other than metallurgical grade 
silicon, Silicon Wafers other than Diffused Wafers, 
Dices, and Chips, covered by OGL vide entry in List 
8 of this Appendix, Actual Users (Industrial) shall 
be required to register their import contract with the 
Department of Electronics, Lok Nayak Bhavan, 
New Delhi before opening letter of credit. Imports 
shall be made only after the connected contracts 
have been stamped by the Department of Electronics 
as an evidence of inch registration. 

(43) In case of unmanufactured ivory. Importable 
under Open General Licence, Imports shall be allowed 
only under the regulations of Convention on Inter¬ 


national Tra de in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna 
and Flora (CITES). Such imports would be permitted 
only on inspection by the Regional Deputy Director, 
Wild Life Preservation. Department of Environment. 

(44) In the case of Energy saving/conserva- 
Jon equipment, including systems and devices work¬ 
ing on/used for Renewable and Alternate sources 
)f energy, the importer shall furnish to the Depart¬ 
ment of Non-Conventional Energy Sources, Block No. 
14, Lodi Road, CGO Complex, New Delhi-110003, 
the following information pertaining to the equip¬ 
ment imported, within 15 days of the clearance of 
goods from the Customs ( 

(/) Description of the equipment imported. 

(ii) Its c.l.f. value. 

(Ill) Amount of Custom 1 , duty paid on the imported 
equipmeut. 

(Iv) Country from which imported. 

(45) The goods are shipped on through con¬ 
signment basis of India on or before 31st, March 
of the licensing year, without any grace period, 
whatsoever. 

(46) Nothing in the Open General Licence shall 
affect the application to any goods, of any other 

f wohibition or regulation affecting the import thereof, 
n force, at the timfc when they are actuHuy imported 


58 GI/S5—12. 



170 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 6—C ontd. 

LIST i 

List of Machinery, Equipment, Testing apparatus, Tools and Implements, which will be allowed under 
Registered Exporters of Gem & Jewellery and Cooperative Societies of Goldsmiths l 

1. All types of diehroscopes refractometers and accessories. 

T All types of gauges, etc., for measuring size of diamonds or precious stones jewellery. 

3. All types of loupes and lenses. 

4. All types of spectroscope and accessories. 

5. Automatic machines for making bracelets. 

6. Automatic soldering machine with motor. 

7. Balancing machine. 

8. Ball burnishing vibration (for polishing chains). 

5>, Boart crushers. 

10. Bruting or girdling machine-single en<J double spindle. 

11. Bull’s eye condenser with stand. 

12. Calibrating machine. 

13. Carving machine. 

14. Centrifugal/Vacuum casting machine, manual/automatic. 

13. Ceres diamond probe or equivalent. 

16. Chain hammering machine (for decoration of chains). 

17. Cleaver’s Box with shell and lead block. 

18. Colorimeter (for rough diamonds). 

19. Colour Grader. 

20. Colour master. 

21. Combined calibertating and bovaling or chamfering machine. 

22. Combined conveyor belt and wire annealing furnace with controlled atmosphere. 

23. Complete automatic chain making machine. 

24. Continuous casting machine of gem and jewellery. 

25. Dops all types. 

26. Dial Micrometer. 

27. Diamond compound kit. 

28. Diamond counting machines. 

29. Dlamondlite. 

30. Dopplng press or machine. 

31. Drilling machines. 

32. Electroplating units for flash plating. 

33. Faceting machine or faceter, 

34. Forming machines. 

35. Gem Carving machines. 

36. Gem mini lab. 

37. Gem print. 

38. Gem Slicing machine, 

39. Gem Testing lamps. 

40. Gluing apparatus. 

41. Grinding machine, 

42. Hydrogen welding'machine with flame temperature high frequency. 

43. Jewellers’ microscope-stereo-zoom type and accessories. 

44. Lapping machines. 

43. Multiple stones bearers. 

46. Multiple wire drawing machine with diamond dies. 

47. Pearl Drilling Machinos/Pearl processing machines. 

48. Point GrindingTnachine. 

49. Polishing machines. 


. [Part I—Sec. 1] 


Open General Licence to 
Artisans. 




tnr?r an trerctr: srerarmr 


171 


APPENDIX 6— Cotud. 

List 1 —Concld. 


50. Polishing Tongs. 

51. Powder Rollers. 

52. Precious balance electrically operated/hand weighing balances weighing in carats and grams (giving minimum reading capacity 
0.05 gm or less). 

53. Proportion scopo/proportion meters. 

54. Quartz lamps for testing precious stones. 

55. Roundlam (Roundlst machine). 

56. Saws, blade, laps, grinding wheels, dressers, discs and other tools, diamond impregnated or otherwise specially designed for machines 
listed at S. No. 12, 31, 33, 34, 35. 38, 41, 44, 64, 66 and 72. 

57. Sawing Blades for diamond sawing'machines. 

58. Sawing Machines. 

59. Sawing Spindles. 

60. Scalfet. 

61. Sclfe cutting lathe. 

62. Scouring maohine. 

63. Semi-automatic stone setting machines. 

64. Shaping machines. 

65. Sieves for diamonds, pearls or precious and sAml-preclous stones. 

66. Slab and Trim Saws. 

67. Steel pots, steel counter pins. 

68. Strip runner. 

a 

[ 69. Suction equipment for diamond dust. 

70. The illuminator polarlscopc. 

71. The “SONBIP”. 

72. Tumbling machines. 

73. Tweezers. 

74. Wire runner. 



172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX O—Corud. 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


LIST 2 

U«l of Life Savtay Kqnlptneota allow'd for Import trades the Opw Umeral Untie* 

1. D C. nofibriilato^ foi internal and external two a»d Faix-makem and their accessories including Patient cable, Internal ddibrtiiaiot 
paddles 45 turn and 35 nun «ixes but excluding ECO ttx'urders, uardioscope, cardiac monitor* and ECO monitor* of any typa. 

4. Endotracheal tubes. 

3. Sngstaken tubes—both adult and paediatric sizes. 

4. Taracheostoniy tubes both plastic and metal 

fl. Cardiac Catheters with guldewhci. 

<i. Cardlo-vascular sutures. 

V. Fogarty and embolectomy catheter*. 

8. Respirators including ventlmeters with accessories Including nebolifen.T connections, resptraton and ventlmeter to pattern 
connecting tubes and connections. 

■f. Implantable cardiac pacemaker with accenoriei 

10. Wearable or portable self contained breathing re*Hesitation equipment for use in area with toxic and dangerous or explosive 
gases. 

11. Portable Intermittent positive pressure breathing apparatus with acocssories/compreased air breathing apparatus sets and oth. r 
breathing protection equipment used by the Are services, 

12. Hydrocephalus shunt*. 

13. Vascular grafts, 

14. Heart-valve prosthesis including valve frames 

15. Portable Haemo-dlalyser Including disposable or kin Haemodlalyie:'. 

16. Homafiltration lnstrament/Hoomodialysers and aoceesortes/spare* thereof. 

17. Small portable pumps for giving slow Infusion of aeM-c*R 0 *r drags 

18. Ventilator used with anaesthesia apparent^. 

19. Pulmofloatot. 

20- Heart lung machine and accessories Including Y and straight connections, heat exchanger, arterial and venous reservoirs filters 
and extra carporeal circulation catheters. 

21. Intravenous cauulae and tubing (for long term use). 

22. Clips for aneurysms and clips applying forceps In neurosurgery, 

23. Instruments and Implants Including self-curing acrylic Bone Cement for rcplsoomant and bonding of hips, kne* and othar lolnts 

for severely crippled and handicapped ' 

24. Blood gas analyser and accessories T 

25. Double/Trlplo/Quadrupl'cato blood plastic bags. 

36. Blood cell separator*. 

2T, Cardiovascular special Instruments sank as i— 

(0 Electrical or gas operated sternal cutters. 

(II) High Pressure stop cocks and connectors for pressure reading. 

(///) Vascular Tissue forccp. 

(/vj Vascular Scissors straight or angled. 

(v) Vascular Bull-dog Clamps. 

(W) Vascular Clamp*. 

(vll) Vascular Needle Holders. 

(Wtf) Coronary Perfusion Cannula*. 

28. Intra-Arterial Catheters and ftaldowlred for selective carebal aagto-graphy, spinal sagio-grmphy ale. 

29. Ornayye reservoir* for lntrm-ventricalar Investigations thsripy 

30. Intra-cardiac patches. 

31. -Suction Catheters. 

32. Plastic Disposable 3-way Cotnwctorf, 

33. Tubing to record pressure*. 

14. Nebulise**. 

55. Humidifier*. 






[*mrl—tte 


*rrcr TraTO: srararrui 


173 


-i~i nua, 

- fithii *—&<mcld 


84. Oxy gassier sad acc**aa<t«» lack as • 

CO Filters. 

(M) Arterla! Venous Tubing. 

(fit) Coronary Can ala*. 

(If) Silastic tubes for mlcrosargarf, 

if. Endoscopic equipment of ail type* (Cyacoscope, Lapraseope tut.; 

38. Ostomy products (appliances) for managing colostomy, Bleostomy, Ureterostomy, tlgti conduit urostomy stoma cases such as 
bags, belts, adhesives seals or rolls adhesive remover, skin barriers micropore surgical tape*, bag closing clamps, X&raya 
seals paste or powder, irrigation sets, plastic or rubber face plates, flanges, tual* or female urinary incontinency sets, skin 
gels, in parts or sets. 

39. Maries Mesh 

40. Pacemakerwires 

41. Patient Cable for pacemaker. 

42. Fibreopfic endoscopes (Thoracic and gasho'shrai!**! Otwiteorlwary) »<th ace*'* e. *t»-—hdb, fibre, c.'fd. scops o? different Aw 

43. Steridrape 

44. Ca&tr@tor« 

43. The following items required by the ({final patients and other categories of physically leeuicapptd people s— 

(1) Folding wheel chairs with‘detachable arms end footrest*- -Special light wheel chairs for easy haadiicg and sport's man 

-motorised wheel chain. 

—special purpose for stairs climbing standing for tetraplegia end paraplegic wo> k 

(2) Incontinence aide like non-aitergk slUicroa-Medical Adhesive spray*. 

—button adjusters for condom osteal*. 

—Urinal leg bags with valves for easy emptying 

(3) Aids for disabled nice folding walking frames. 

(4) Aids to extend reach to pick up small items (with small magnet pick *p) 

(3) Specialised fixture* for orthopaedic and spastic, WtrapUgics for manoenveriag asd providing dexterity to fingers and writs. 
(6) Turning beds for prevention of pressure sores, 

(?) Emulsion cushions for tetraplegta and wntklss paraplegic* to avoid pn»s»s« boss* 

46. Disposable Monitoring Electrodes to use wiUi the monitoring machine for diagnosing heart disease. 

47. Patient cable & patient leads to use for diagnosing heart disease, 

48. Portable intermittent traction machines. 

49. Artificial electronics Sarynx Instrument*. 





174 


THE GAZETTF OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX o —Lomu 

LIST 3 

List of Finished ifu\, prejtarati ns, life wring and antl-cance* drags, import of which will be allowed under Open General Licence. 

1. Actinomycm-D Injection 

2. Aminoca prole Acid Injection. 

3. Aminopterine Sodium Injection, 

4 Amlphcnazoic injection. 

i Ampbotericin-B luicctl n 
d Antihaemophylilo Globniin inie u >n. 

7 Anti-Haemcphillc fac nr Conserttrat* rets! A is). 

8 Aprotmin Injection. 

9. Azathioprtne tablet? an i injects t» 

*ti bsmegr at Injtcu. n 

11. Bethanechol Chloride Tabie’s 

12. Bleoinyuu iajectior 

13. Busuiphan Tablets 

14. Calcium Discodlum Bdeta Injecti<'n 

15. Canine Distemper Vaccine 

16. Carbemdiiin Sod urr in n , 

11 CCNU vXomudme 

18. Cholestyramine tor oral suspension 

19. Chlorambucil tablets. 

20. Chorionic Ganadotropbln ampoules. 

21. Colistin Sulphate injection and Colistin Sulphomctbate Sodium Injection, 

22. Conjugated Estrogen-injection of 

23. Corticotrophln (ACTHD Injection 

24. Cytarabine Hydrochloride Inject on 
23. Daunorubibin Hydrochloride Injection 

26. Desferrioxamine Injection 

27. Diagnostic agents, the following 

(A) Biological Diagnostic Agents, namely i~ 

(1) A t giutinabie Suspension*. 

(2) Agglutinating Sere excluding he following i — 

- (f) Anti 'A' Sera 

(if) Anti ‘B’ Sera 
(HI) Anti ’D’ (Rho) Sera. 

(3) Oostridiuni Diagnostic Sera 

(4) Diagnostic Regents tor .eoeteci dUeaies. aatnely i 

(I ) Frets Antigen 
Iff) Kahn Antigen. 

(iff) Wassermann Antigen 
(3) Horse Serum 

(6) Species Precipitating Sera. 

(7) Streptococcus grouping Ser* 

(b) Viral Antigen and Sera. 

(9) Fhe inflowing agent*, rs.-rnc.j- i 
{/) Anti* r-piolysu *0 
( ii ) Bovine a I 
m CcK.ni! s m «j 

lfi>) immune , Scwsttccni >cti n Reagents. 

<»j Koch old Tubcfcuim, 

(Hj <cagei fi r Catoni's tc*< 

(til) Streptolysin L 



i*rr T r I— m 1] 


: sraram 


175 


* 


APPENDIX 6 —Contd. 


List 3 —Cpntd. 

{b)X Ray Diagnostic Agents, namely i— 

(1) Acctrlzok. Add Injection. 

(.2) Caldum Ipodate Sachets. 

(3) Diodone Injection. 

(4) Ethyl Iodophenylundecylate Injection*. 

(8) Injection of Sodium and Meglumine Salt* of Iodamlde. 

<<) lodipamlde Methylgiucamine Tnlectioev 

8?) lodoxyi Injections. 

;8) Megjumino lothaiamate Injection 

(9) Pbenobutiodil tablets. 

(50) Propyliodone Injection 

(51) Sodium lothaiamate Injection* 

( 12 ) Sodium Ipodate Capsule*. 

28. Dlmercaprol (BAL) Injection. 

29. DHL Vaccine (Distcmber, Hepatitis, Leptospirosis Vaccine) 

V 

30. Doxyrublcln Hydrochloride Injection. 

31. Edrophonium Chloride Injection. 

32. Fluorouracil Injection. 

33. Folfide Stimulating Hormone (FSH) and Latinising Hormone (LH) Injection. 

34. Gas gangrene anti-toxin injection. 

35. Glucagon Injection. 

36. Highly purified neutral insulin Injection (Porcine Insulin). 

37. Highly purified insulin zinc suspension injection (Porrine Insulin!. 

38. Highly purified neutral insulin Injection (Bovine Insulin). 

39. Highly purified insulin zinc suspension injection (Bovine Insulin). 

40. Highly purified Isophane insulin Injection (Bovine Insulin). 

41. Histamine Injection*. 

42. Human Thrombin. 

' 43, Hydroxyurea preparations. 

44. Isoproterenol hydrochloride Injections. 

45. Isb metamidium chloride. 

46. L-Asparaginase Injection. 

47. Leucovcrine Caldum Injection. 

48. Levarterenoi Bitartrate Injection 

49. Levadopa with carbldope Tablets. 

50. Lincomydn Hydrochloride Injection. 

51. Mannomustine Hydrochloride—Injection* and tablet* of. 

52. Measles vaccine S. Strain with dilute t 

53. Measles, mumps and lubeila virus vaccine, live with diluent. 

54. Mcriphalan Injection and tablets. 

55. Mer«ptop«ri*<s tablet* 

56 Metanninol Tartrate Injections, 

57. MethlcilH* (Sodium Sait) Injection 

58. Methotrexate tablet* and Injection* 

59. Methoay Plnralse i® boitls* 




176 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX fc- -L'on.’d 

U*t 3—Soacld, 


60. MotrieatnSde v'ini with undent 

61. Mitomycin C injection. 

62. Musdne Hydrochloride ampouies 

63. Pavulon (Pancuronium Brvinide; 

64. Peoiciliinase injccrioa. 

65 D. Peoicillanuaf) hydrothloiiac o^inei 
66; Pilcarpinc eye drops. 

67 PoUomyeUtis Vacd-v* C&i'tn- 

68 PoSiomyeUts* 1 1 v' <ie ..Net’ 

69. Po if aiilis SU'j'h* i .» I ■'<■< •! 

70. Prsitdojdtoe Cinoinje/hi. U- *• • 

71. Protawiin' V.iheCiS^, 

72. .Procarbazine Oydrocfticride (Japsidw, 

73. Qulnidiiio gluconate inita wuous injections. 

74. Raceuuc Phenyiamiue Nitrogen Mustard HydiochJoride—Injection and tablets of 

75. Serum Gonadotrophin ampoules. 

76. Stieptoldnaso-Streptodornase Tablets and Injection., 

77. Sucdnyichohnc Chloride Injectior 

78. SuMtboniurn Bromide--ampoule* of. 

79. Tamoxifen citrate tablets (Anti-rancor drugs). 

80. Tesfolactone preparations. 

81. Theriniserine (Cyloserinc). Pronicid (Prothionamide) and Reganicid (Ethionamide) i„.__ 

82. Tubocui aiine Chloride inject**.*. 

83. fhio-Tepa Injection., 

84. Tbromodoltkiflio «ritb Calcium—Tablets of 

85. Tretamins Tablets and Injection; 

86. Triznetaphan Camsyiate Injection* 

87. Vasopressin Injections. 

88 . Vincristine Sulphate Injection. 

89. Vinblastine Sulphate Injectioa. 

90. Veterinary Me saving drcyi, the faborinf 

(/) Combined vaccine against dViuoapei hepatitis, Mptosiproiis sad rabies. 

(U) Homologous standards si aiitnerura agatnst Distemper and Hepatitis. 

(tfi) Coutnaphos Weuabit Powder/Suspension, 

(fv) Suramin Powder. 

(a) Penbendazoie BolusySuspemion/Powdes- 
^/l Oxyclozartide liquid. 

(rtf) Inactivated feoies Vacssae (freparsd from Cnitur* of Rsbtas rims oa human dlipidd c*db>). 

91. Nagano! (M-atnteoibangeyf-r.s-oieAyi boniojn)- 

92. Dianojuue uu*c-i a 

93. Ni-iogiytei in o., cv 

94. UxrMnas* >*n 'invc* 

95. ft*: «UUI*11. us , , 1, K ! It 1 . ’i , sit! . ; 

94. Sodium Auorii.oinaijit) Inycin . 


[*IK I—snr i] 


wrtr , pt : sRrraK^r 


177 


APPENDIX 6— Contd. 


LIST 4 

Uai of Mass at to wad fo» import as 'Crude drags’ under O.G.L. 


Si Ayurvedic/Unao! mine of the crude drug! sa elusive of parte 
No, 

i~' " ~ 2 

A. PLANT ORIGIN DRUGS 
X, Vansalochan, Tabsheer fMarma) 

?. Gaozeban (leaves, flowers) 

" Smanjan (Corams) 

* Bol, Mur Makki (Gum retie- 
t Saqmooia (Resin) 

S. Yashtimadhu, Mufethi (Roote' 
if. Hauberk AbhaJ (Ben is*} 
a. Todrl (Seeds) 

5*. Satab Misri (Tuberi) By it da si 
SO. Shaqaqul Misri (Root) 

U. Kababchinl (Fruits) 

12. Mastagi Roonii (Guin-resm) 

53. Maya Phala, Maze (Galls, 

3 4, Chobchim )Root) 
i.S. Unnab (Fruits) 

S d. Aqarqarha (Root) 

1?. Babaian Safaid (Root) A Surkh (Red & WhHs vsr ) 

? 3. Danonaj Aqrabt (Root) 

PI. Hfng (Gam-rsslfl) 

20. usara Revaod (Extract) Rovandchini (Root) 

21. Ustokbuddus (Plant) 

22. Habb-ul-Gbar (Berries) 

23. Habb-ul-Aa* (Berries) 

24. Ood-c-Saleeb (Root) 

23. Bisfeyej (Root, Rbizorus) 

Ushbah Maghribi (Root) 

2T. Turanjabeett (Manna) 

28. Zarlshak (Fruit) 

29. Balsan (Habb Seeds, Baegfesn-ol'i.; 

30. Sheer Khisfct (Manas) 

?1. Ushaq (Obo-junvreeut) 

32. GwFe-Ghafl* (Flower) 

33. Habb-al-MalUsb. (Frtut^Seeds) 

54, Far*®! Mathis (Fruits, Seeds) 

3.3 Badiy»**EM»l (Frail) 

3d: Blrsejstif 
if. J-i> 3 w*r NlrcUf iHo.'., 


Scientific and/or English name of the drag 
3 “ 


Heartburn Sambos Druce Syn. B. Arundiracea Wild. 
Bamboo Manna, 

Borago officinalis Linn. 

Cokhicum luteum Baker Cokhkum 
Commiphora myrrbe (Nees) Engl. Mynh. 

Coarohidus . seammooia Linn Scarmicny. 

Glycyrrhlzu glabra Linn Ltcoi ice 
Juatpsrus communis Linn Jump, i berries, 

Mathlota fncana R.B 
Orchis laxlflora Lam, Saiep. 

Pastinaca secacul Linn. Wild P i-ship, Secacui. 

Piper, cubebo Linn. f. Cubeb. 

Pistcta lenttscus Linn. Masticfe. 

Quercus infectoria Oliv. Oak. 

Smilax china Linn China Root. 

Ztiyphm lativa Gaertn Jujube. 

Anacyclus pyrothrum Dc. PoUKery. 

Contaurea bohen Urn. 

Doronkvm pardatUmches Linn Roman Leopard's Bane. 

Ferula Footida Regcl Assafoetida. 

tUutun emadia Wall Rheum, Rhubarb. 

Lavandula sioechas Linn, French Lavander, 

Paurus oobtils Lion. Laurd. 

Myrtuj communis Linn. Myrtle. 

Paeonlo officinalis Linn. Paeooia B-mt. 

Polypodlum •utgare Urn Polipody 

Smilax arlstok-cMaefolla Miller 
Maxciar, Sarsaparilla. 

AHsagi psoud-alhagi (Bieb) Dm Sya. A. Cameiorum 

Herberts vulgaris Liars Borbery. 

Commiphora opobatoamum (Lton.) Baal 
53afeam Tree. 

Prox faus amiss Lina. 

Doremo ammoniac,um D-Doa. Aramoaiacum. 

Qentkma olhterl Griseb Geuitae 
Prunus tmhakh Lina, Makalah Tree. 

Drococophotum MoldMca Usn 
lllclum **rum Hoot F 
dctstlka mUUfcllurs l Ins Ml if Si. 

Peip&stlstm tJemsdolum A*ii. 


178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


AFPhNDlX 6 

Iam 4- Cone Id. 

1 i ~ 3 


38. Turmus Sail'd 

39. Gulnar Farsi (Flower) 

40. Sat<ir Fats (Plant) 

41. Zaitun (Tcl-oll) 

42. Kahruba (Restn In fossil form) 

43. Damm-ul-Akjiwaln (resinous exudate) 

44. Naryal DaryBee 

43. Gul-e-Ptsta (Flower) 

46. Loban (Balsamic resin, Bonzoln) 

47. Darehini (Bark) 

48. Lavang, Laung (Flower bud) 

49. Zeera Slyah (Fruit) Krlsharr Jir.d, 

50. Anisoon (Fruit) 

31. Sarjarsam (Gum-tcsln) 

52. Ratanjot (Rhizome) 

33. Zoofa (Plant) 

34. Shaqiqoou (Mushroomj 

53. Long Pepper 

B. Mineral nrlgln Drags , 

1. ShllujU 

2. Hoorii-o-Artnanl 

3. Salndhava Namak, Namak Luhori. 

4. Hajr-ul-Yahud. 

3. Zahar Mohra 

6. Yaqoot (Cboora) 

7. Parwola, tvJunga, Shaalrb-e-Mtirjan. Bekb-e-Marjau. 
By* sad. 

8. Mukta, MoW 

9. Sang Yaghab 

10. Hlngul, Sbarj^rar 

11. Gil-e-Makhtooro. 


t uplnus albus Lino White lupin. 

Puniru Granatum Linn PomGranate. 

7 at or la multiflora Bols' 

Oieo europoea Linn. Olive 

Pious succimtorB Gopp.it Ambci (Fossilised) 

Vniecona cinnabari Etaif i. Dragon's Blood Plum, 

J adricoa moidiviea pots, Syn. L. Seychellarum LtAGi 
Piltacia sera Linn pistachio plant. 

Styrax benzoin Dryand Olibanum or Benzoin Tree 
Cinnamonum zoyiunlcuth tllume Cinnamon Bark. 
Syzygium niomaticuin (Linn.) Merr. & L.M. Porry. 
Cloves. 

Carum cant Linn Black Caraway, Black Cumin. 
Plmplnalla tudsum Linn Ani fruits. 

Vutotia Indlca Linn. 

Onosma echiolda Linn. 

Hytsoptu officinalis Lino 
Hyssop 

Pclyporou? offclnalis Files LUiole Mushroom 
Piper Longum Linn. 

Black Bltuman, Mineral Pitab Bitumen 
Bole Arrocnlac, Armenian Buie. 

Rook Sail, Black Salt. 

Fossil Enorlnate. 

Serpentine. 

Ruby. 

Coral (ColraJiuro rubrarn). 

Pearl 

Jade, 

Cinnabar 

Clay 


Moras t— (f) if any of the ileraa appearing In this list also appear In Appendix 3 Part A It* Import will not be 
under OGL. 


allowed 


(11) Import of Jade. Pcarif and Corals only m Powder form and ol non-jewellery quality alone will be allowed 



— m 1 ] 


Trror h>t : arcrrerNl 


179 


APPENDIX 6 —Cortni 


L183 • 

LUt of Sutures and Needles for sorgJcai purposes allowed under OGL vide Item i0{ b) In till* Append!*. 

t, De*on Polyglyoollc add suture Nos. 0, 2/0 1/0 4/0, VO, 6/0 on cutting needle, also available without needle aud on round 
bodied needle. 

3 Surgical Gut mild chromic (marked ‘Opthalmlo') No upto e/0; length 18' on 3/8 circle reverse cutting needle. 

i Edition micro-point spatnla 5 mm needle 9' No. w 1 .'21. 

Micropoint spatula 6 mm double needle 10' No. w 1719. 

v. Prolene Micro point spatula 6 nun double needle 9. No. w i 710. 


i Micro sutures with micro taper point Nylon/Pol;, ester Reference. 


DM 201 

04917 \ 

12/0 on 0.03 mm 3/8 circle. 

DM 202 

04920 J 

0.07 mm needle. 

Nylon /Pnlyster Reference 

RM 212 02294 

10/0 i'n 

0 10mm 1/2 circle 

RM 222 02296 

10/0 on 

0.14mm 1/2 circle 

(DM) 212 02304 

10/0 on 

0.14tnm3/8 circle needla. 

Nylon/lYilysler Reference 


a 

GM 201 06042 

11/0 oa 

0.05mm 

GM 202 06040 

11/0 on 

0.07 mm Straight needle 

6039 

10/0 


6, Sllcon rubber strips for rational detachment 


I) 1570/40 

3.3mm*0.75mm 

D 1570/41 

2.0mrni0,75mm 

D 1370/42 

4.0mmxl.25mm 



180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 — (Onto. 
usi 

fist of DssiCdi Equipment, Dental Irwtrameeti A AppUsecw siiomti to* import mdw Opss Gmh! tea 

DflNTAL EQUIPMENT ' ! 


1. Air Motor/Turbine Hand pises and Control Bo* with 

Foot Control. 

2. Air Rotor/Turbine complete with or without Air Com¬ 
pressor. 

3. Body contoured self-adjusting elect*ically operated dental 

chair. 

4. Cassettes for X-ray Film. 

9. Cryosurgery equipment 

6 . Dental Engine* 

(а) fos laboratory *wi 

(б) for chairside clinical work on palNs'*. 

f. Dental Furnaces and casting machine t. 

8. Dentai Operating Lights Sc fibre Qplik Lights. 

9. Dental unit frith all attachments fixed to it. 

10. Electric casting furnace and accessories for dental castings 

11. Electro-surgery unite 

12. Equipment for chrome cobelf wer* 

13. Evacuator unit. 

14. Fibre optic light equipment with aivaciu-aeut.-; lor dcarai 

work. 

13. Flexible cable amu. 

16. Gold foil conseusing Uudnimeai* 

17. High speed mobile suction apparatus. 

18. Hot atr stcrilizens 

19. Hydrocolloid conditioner* equipment or heating utalt. 

20. Model surveyor. 

21. Model Trimmers 

22. Moto—Tool with or *ritboi?-’ speed tor 

drilling) 

23. Orthodontic blow pipe 

24. Orthodontic trimmers. 

23. Orthodontic polisher with auxiliary function outlet* 

(а) Annealing jack. 

(б) Xuxilliary cables 
(e) Heat-treat table. 

(d) Plug—la vis* 

26. Preheating porcelain tame*. 

27. Porcelain furnace. 

28. Porcelain tacunm psuip 

29. Pulp Tsrrwn. 

30. Seed blasting equipment for Oetn.il u-s* 

31 Three In is-» *•>•’»• syrinx 

32 fled 

33. Uteraaonic auaalga-n kd. 


34. Ultrasonic insert*. 

33. Ultrasonic orthodontic kit and root canal kit. 

36. Ultrasonic ffcsler* of all type*. 

37. Vacuum investing equipment for dental carting*. 

33. Vibratnres for dental nw, 

19. Spot welded for dsntfd use rtith aexillisry funclltra outlet 
(rt Annealing jack 
(<'■) Auxibiry cable- 
:<:) Heat ■ • i«»t table. 

f'l Fit'sg - -T. VHi 

I 

Ltd! OF ’NSAUJHAxXS EOF. DENTAL USE 
40 Air Turbfog angle adaptor*. 

12 to 3 hole) Borden. 

(4 io ho<e) 

41. A.it lu.lBag Chuck*. 
taj Plastic chuck*. 

<fc) Quet-ais racial chacke -—Comp*.. 

Ctr.cc :u.i:: Uaadaid 
Fa; era or ultra 
Mlniato .j 
Standard. 

42 . AIR TURBINE HBAD/CARTRIDOES 

in) Bordeu iurbkei ! — Regular cartridge 

(e) Borden turbine* -—Silencer cartridge 

ir) Quiet air turbine —Cuirpic 4 

Muriate* 

,9teisdsnl 

43. Amalgamator* 

3-5. Vimlgafsreor capsules wad pesiie 
*3. Amalgam earner* 

(а) Double cod—Regular m large, 

(б) Single eftd—regular or targe. 

46, Amalgam synfieawri, 

47. Bur blocks >ot holJifig bus*. 

48 Cartridge Syringe oeedles— Disposable »sd 

;«) Deatailnjccsc,. 

(6) Disposable »<-r»’8g«- 

*5. Casing >je'M end s»c_iewories 
(.<) Coppe* anode 
ii») Custom .rail. j' 

<?) Dealer* ftwk wiifc cittuip. 

Id) EleeUoforaier 

m) FlwJk 

'?-} Fit.A- *iec!--f. 

. - I-at i fir, 6t> a 

fj iueersoi liquid. 



[*rrtr I—ws 1 ] 


♦im* in osh* : irnrm 


181 


APPENDIX 6—Coma 

LU» b-*Qontd 


80. Dental A brawl vr polishing and finishing Instrument* 

(a C'ompi *»*« finishing kit 1/0. 
ibi CooipoMi*. |'dint kit C/A. 

(c) C"ld polishing kit H T. 

(d) Silicone brownie cups C/A. 

(4) Silicone b*o vnle muu po net C/A 
(/) SiUicone brownie cups F/G. 

(K) Silicone brownie mini pts. F/O. 

(h) Silicone greenle mini pts. C/A. 

(0 Silicone Greenle cup* C/A, 

(J) Silicone greenle mini pts. PIC 

31. Dental anesthetic syringes. 

92. Dental buns of all varieties of various shapes and sire*. 

(a) Carbide. 

(A) Diamond 
(c) Steel. 

33. Dental Handpiece* for 

(o) Air motor. 

(b) Air turbine. 

(c) Drilling engines (clinical and laboratory) for filling, 
packing and condensation purposes. 

id) Micromotor. 

54. Oral suigica 1 i 

(a) R< me files. 

(b) Burnisher, 

(c) Carvers. 

(d) Composite filing Instrument*. 

(«) Condonsors. 

(f) Crown removers. 

(g) Curettes. 

(A) Cutting cavity prep, 

(I) F.levatory — periosteal, 

(J) Excavators 

(k) Forceps. 

(/) Hemostate. 

(m) Mallets, 

(n) Mouth glass. 

(o) Needle holders. 

( p ) Packing instrumem. 

(q) Plastic filling 

(r) Plicra- -office and laboratory 

’ 3 Oral Surgical Conservative Instruments i 
(a) Plier, copper band remove*. 

(A) Pliers cotton and freaslng. 

(c) PUnger, amalgam 

(d) Probes. 

(*) Ronguer* 

(/) Root tip picks. 

(g) Scalers, 

(A) Scissors collar and crowe, 
it) Scissors, gum. 

Hi Snatulns. cement. 


,'k) Spatulas, Impression paste 
(/) spatulas, pastor 
tm) Spatulas, wav 
(«) Sterilizer foroej 

(o) Tape, Instrument identification. 

( p ) Towel clamps and napkin holders 

3d. Developing tarks for dental X-ray (Automatic & Ordinary) 

37. Endodontic instruments (Root Canal Instruments) Broa¬ 
ches, reamers and files, flllers/wideners and pluggcn. 

38. Engines, handpieces and burs 
(a) Carbide burs 

(A) Engine belts. 

(cj Engine— bench models. 

(if) Handpieces—doriot type. 

If) Lapours, 

(/) Model trimmer. 

yg) Model trimmer abrasive discs. 

(A) Model trimmer wheels. 

1 1 ) Moto flex model. 

(/)) Moto tool model. 

( k) Rhoostate foot models. 

(l) Sediment tray. 

(m) Speed control foot operated 

(n) Speed control table model. 

(o) Steriab handpiece 

(p) Steel bun. 

*0, Explorer sharpened 

f0. Film holders—Dental X-Ray Film Holders. 

(n) Angulators, Adult and child. 

(A) Bisecting angle Instrument with and without bite wing. 

(e) Bite blocks. 

(<fl Illumlnaton—slimline—desk or well mount 
At. Furnaces for dental use. 

62. Glass dippon dish products for dental use, 

63. Knives and spatulas. 

(a) Blade plaster 

(A) Green line plaster knives 
(a) Surgeons blades. 
id) Surgical handle. 

64. Laboratory burner and torches. 

63. Lathes, schucks and accessories for dental use \ 

t a) Attachments for auto chuck. 

(A) Auto chuck handler. 

( c) Bench top type—PortA vse 
J) Chocks 

(«) Gypsotn dlspensms. 

;/) Jacob* type chuck 
'g) Ij»b lath* 

(A) Precision chuck* 

1 1 ) iplash guards 
') Splosh hood. 



182 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX b—Contd. 


tlot 6 — QoMd. 


66. Mandrel*. 

67. Matrix Instruments and material*—of all type* i 

(a) Bands. 

( b ) Strips. 

68. Mixers i 

( а ) Alginate mixer. 

(б) Mechanical mixer. 

(c) Power mixers. 

(</) Vacuum investing machine. 

(«) Vacuum Investor and power mlxei. 

69. Mouth Mirrors and Mirror Handles—of all type* for 
dental use. 

TO. Orthodontic Instruments t 

(а) Acryllasrs. 

(б) Arch former. 

(c) Bow devlder. 

(d) Bracket holder. 

(e) Cephalometric tracing pencil. 

(/) Direct bonding adhesive remover. 

71. Orthodontic instrument* t 

(a) Glass beat sterilizers. 

( b ) Hand scalers end Instruments for periodontal treatment 
Including ginglvectomy knives. 

(e) Hand setter—director—adaptor- -pusher. 

{d) Impression trays—nil sizes. 

(e) Marking files. 

(/) Mechanical tooth separators, 

( g ) Model former—metal/rubber base. 

(h) Orthodontic and pedodontic pliers 
(/) Scissor*. 

( J ) Stress and tension gauge. 

(it) Tweezers. 

(/) Typodent. 

(m) Reamers, broaches, files, fillers and excavators for root 
canal treatment for botn hand use and with reciprocal 
action handpieces. 

(n) Pins for amalgam restoration*. ^ 

(o) Chrome cobalt alloy dental Implants. 

(p) Scemleas copper bands. 

\ij) Handcutting Instruments for cavity such as chisels oi 
various types, hatchats, hoes files, gingival marginal 
trimmers. 

72, Plaster bowls—Small medium, large, 

TI. Pliers and Scissors i 

( o ) Baud remover 
(b\ Crown and collar 
(t' Diagonal wire cutters 
( 1 1 Plaster nipper 
(•) Plate shear. 

■ ( f ) Universal *ci»*of, 

(f) Wire cutter. 


M. Prosthetic materials i 

I'll Glass bin. 

( 6 ) Lingual and palatal bars. 

(c) Performed bars and clasp* 

(d) Tray inserts for cabinet. 

(e) Tumbler holders. 

75. Root canal anobor pins and pin retention kits. 

76. Rubber dam supplies i 

(а) Hygenic ready cut darn. 

(б) Hygenic rubber dam rolls. 

(c) Rubber dam clamps. 

( d ) Rubber dam clamp forceps, 

(e) Rubber dam frames and holders 
(/) Rubber dam punch, 

ig) Rubber dam napkins. 

77. Saliva Ejector*. 

78. Bulbs for dental light* (IncluJIng fibre Optlk Light* 

79. Tongue depressor*. 

SO. Trays—Impression trays. 

81. Tray Impression Acwwfiorie* i 

(а) Cabiltray. 

(б) Instrument tray*. 

(e) Tray adhesive*. 

(d) Trays cabinet. Instrument and unit. 

(«) Tray clearner*. 

(/) Tray racks. 

Or) Tray release agent* 

(A) Unit tray*.' 


82. Bite-Wing Loops and Tabs for Dental X-Ray*. 

83. Developer and Fixer 

-Kio-— 

84. Film Dlipenser 

-Jo— 

83. Film Hangers 

• - Jo— 


LIST OF DENTAL MATERIALS 

86. Abrasives and Polishing Material* i 
(/) Abrasslve strips. 

(ft) Aorilustre polish. 
iili) Acrylic base plate wheel*. 

(fv) Arbor band*. 

(v) Buff*. 

(ri) Burlew disc*—dry foil. 

< rW) Ceramic points, 

(till) Cutting disc*. 

(M$ Cnttle linen. 

(x) Diamond coated *uper fleilforro dI*o. 
(xf) Diso.—pin hole center. 

(x/f) Finishing strip*. 

%xtit) Hand separator. 

(xlr) Heatless wheel*—grinding 
(it) Inter pro* wheel*. 



[smr I— 1 ] 


w rrsrqg: 


183 


APPENDIX b—Comd. 

f lat 6— Qontd. 


(xvl) Just! milling polishing cream. 

(. xvii ) Knife edge rubber wheels. 

(xvili) Metal lightning. 

(xlx) NM slims. 

(xx) Point mandrel. 

(xxi) Polishing brushes. 

(xxii) Rubberised abrasive?, 

(xxilt) Ruby carvers. 

(xxlv) Separating discs. 

(xxv) Slitter cut off wheels. 

(xxvi) Tooth grinding wheels 
(xxvii) Touch-ups, 

(xxvitt) Tripoli. - 
(xxlx) Ultra thin discs. 

(xxx) Ziroon trimmers. 

87. Acrylics—Regular. Standard. Powder, Liquid. 

88. Acrylics and plastics for dental use. ^ 

89. Air turbine handpiece cleaners, conditioners and 
lubricants; 

(a) Airotor cleaner. 

(b) Airotor lubricant. 

(c) Lubricant. 

(d) Lubricant syringe. 

(e) Spray a-day. 

(/) Tru tore conditioner. 

90. Alloys— Fillings and Pellets (Precious and Nob-Precious) 

91. Angle and handpiece cleaners and lubricant* i 

(a) Handpiece cleanei. 

ib) Handpiece ease (tube). 
lc) Handpiece lubricant. 

(d) Lubricating oil perfumed. 

92. Articulating papers. 

93. Articulating paper and accessories and dental floss dis¬ 
penser. 

94. Bite applicators and sticks. 

95. Cavity liners and bases. 

96 Cements—Zinc Oxide. Zinco Phosphate, Carboxylate, 
Calcium Hydroxide & Resin. 

97. Compressor oils, 

98. Copper or Aluminium or plasting band*. 

99. Cynoacrylate sprays for surgical ass. 

100. Crown and Bridge and Denture Aid* s 

(a) Color transfer applicators. 

(b) Hl-spot spray Indicator, 

(c) Indicator paste. 

(«/) Pressure indicator paste. 

(*) Silicons liquid, 

101. Crown forms and temporary crowas 1 

(a) Anterior assortment. 

(b) Crowns, 

(c) Dispensors, 

(d) Plastic transparent crown forms. 

(*) Polycarbonate complete packing 


102. Crown shells (Material and plastic). 

103. Dental abrassive, polishing and finishing material 3 

(a) Abrassive paste. 

(b) Amalgloss. 

(c) Brass centre spindle stand disc asst. 

(d) Brass centre disc asst. 

(e) Disc separating. 

[/) Discs and strips of ali kinds—paper, brass cener stand 
disc asst. 

(g) Paper disc asst. 

(h) Strips, finishing linen, cuttle. 

(/) Strips, lightening. * 

104. Dental cotton pellets and rolls. 

105. Dental filling material 1 

( 0 ) Composite resin—self curing and light curing (with 
ultraviolet gun). 

(by Fisher’s sealants. 

(c) Glass ionomer cements. 

(d) Self curing and light curing. 

106. Dental mercury. 

107. Denture repair and reline materials: 

(a) Denture liner and repair kit. 

(b) Jet repair acrylic. 

(c) Mlnit weld—powder and liquid. 

(d) Minit weld repair kit. 

(e) Self-cure repair material. 

108. Germicidals and sterilizing aids. 

109. Hemostatic packs for dental use, 

110. Impressjpn materials and bite registration materials and 
accessorial. 

111. Lubricants 1 

(a) Resin materials. 

( b ) Tray material (Blue). 

(c) Tray material (Pink). 

112. Mouth guards and materials for mouth guards. . 

113. Mouth Mirror De-Fogglng Liquids. 

114. Mouth props. 

115. Oral evacuation product* 1 

(a) Aspirator tip*. 

( b ) Cleaning agent*. 

(c) Dri-clave. 

id) Oral evacuator tip*. 

116. Orange solvent. 

117. Orthodontic materials 1 

(a) Band materials—preformed bands, conloered band* 
band strips/rolb. 

(b) ■ Bonding systems and accessories—all kinds of pastes 

sealents, etching liquid, finishing accessories, mesh pads. 

(c) Bracket and tubes. 

(d) Coil springs and other types of springs, jigs and locks. 




184 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Past I-Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX 6—<,£>«/<! 

LUl t'-towd 


-1 SspanMon ertw-t of type* 

>') Ligature viItci and aeparertiSB win 
( f) Muscle anchorage appliance. 

(A) Orthodontic accessories—books, eyelets, cleats, 

buttons, clasps, chin caps, head gears, elastic head 
gears, strips, face-bows 

(i ) Orthodonotlc rubber positioners 

(/ ) Orthodontic wire* all types and preformed arche*. 

(Jfc) Rubber and synthetic elastics, elastomeric thread", 
chains and elastic separators or all types 

( I) Solders silver/atatInleM steel, flux-paste- liquid 
118. Permanent dental cements and surgical ccmentt/pack* 

110. Porcelain and plastic t 

(a) Liquid. 

(ft) Powder. 

120, Prophylaxis supplier, 

(a) Angle*. 

(b) Bridge deanero. 

(c) Disclosing product! 

(<f) Floss. 

(t) Flouride gels and solution. 

(/) Flouride trays and Inserts. 

(j) Prophy pastes. 

(A) Prophy tablets 
( t ) Prophy scalers. 

121. Prosthetic materials t 

(a) Casting Investment for dental castings. 

(b) Chrome cobalt alloys, non-preclous technic alloy and 
white metal for dental restorations. 

(c) Green/brown compound sticks for crown and bridge 
Impressions. 

(<f) Gutta percha sticks and root canal points. 

(«) platinum foils for dental use. 

( f) Pulp caps, oellulold. metal anil temporary acrcylic 
crowns. 

(g) Rubber base and silicone Impression material 
(A) Rubber moulds for preparing models 

112. Sealer or oe meat i 

(a) Alcohol torch needle flame 
(ft) Base plate material pink 
(c) Block out compound 
(rf) Clear material. 

(*) Coping material. 

(f) Endodontic Implant material 
(f) Gutta poroha points. 

(A) Mouthguard material. 

< l) Precision vacuum adapter wait 
(/) Resin materials 

(k) Root canal filling material. 

( l) Root canal scalers and cements 
(ml R.C. Stiver point*. 

(e) Temp Ipllat materiel. 

123. IpMget. 


12>}. Ktaloing msterie!" 
nri brush t ( ;M ir t 
til Brushes—angled 

(c) Brushes—complete Hi 

( d) Brushes- straight 
(«) Minute stain kit 

(/) Opaquer—powder and liquid 
if) Stain kit 

123. Surgical sutures, blades end seal pert i— 

(o) Sutures exodontla. 

(6) Sutures noedles. 

(c) Suture spool 

12P Trey materiel i 
(a) Instant tray mix 
(A) Tray materiel 

12V Vacuum forming material* and supplies t 

(a) Accessories. 

(b) Denture adhesives 

(c) Precision vacuum adaptor 

(d) Resin bur. 

(e) Resin materials. 

(/) Stone platter gypsum for accurate models 

128. Waxes : 

baseplate max 

( b ) Bauxlng wax- < trip* uu.1 run-* 

(e) ihtr v'ax 

(i d ) Casting wa s 
<») Impression wax 
(/) Sticks 

(a) Tubes and aluminium was 
(A) Wax sticks and tubes 

129. Wedges. 

ISO. X-Ray fllma—*H types i 
(a) Bit" wleg 
(A) BxtraoraJ 
(*) (ntvreerml. 

(/) Ooclwrsl, 

(s) Psetrrmi*, 



[tft I—or 1] 


wtot vt TFJura: swrarw 


185 


131. X-Ray mounts. 

132. Anaesthlc cartridges for dental use. 

133. Dental drugs i 

(a) Disclosing tablets. 

( b ) Bugenol free glngvcctomy packs, 

(c) Medicament bottlts 
id) Para chlorophenol. 

(e Poly antibiotic pasta. 

134. Drugs and Medicaments i 
(a Ammonia inhalants. 

(b) Calcium hydroxide tor dental use. 

(c) Camphorated para chlorophcaol. 


APPENDIX 6— Contd. 

Lilt 6— (Joneld, 

(d) Chlorinated soda wish KOH. 

(«) Creosote. 

(/) CrosanoL 
(t) Creeatla. 

(A) DosensI titer. 

< 0 Devitalizing Pastes and Cements. 
(J)' Dry sooket paste. 

(A) Bndo Preparations, 

(/) Bugenol for dental use. 

(m) Formo cresol. 

(n) Qlyosidc liquid. 

(o) Mummyfping & devitalizing pastes. 
(/) N-2 cement. 

iq) Zinc Oxide for Dentaljuae. 


58 GI/85—13. 




86 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


i tlii CjAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
APPENDIX 6— conta. 


Scientific and Technical Subjects 

(a) Animal Husbandry/Llvestock. 

(D Agriculture Botany. 

(«i Horticulture & Gardening. 

(d) Dairy Farming & Dairy prod act* 

(e) Entomology. 

(/! For«try & Wood Technology. 

(g) Plant Pathology & Cytology. 

(41 Poultry Farming. 

(0 Stock breeding 

(J) Canning & Preservation of fruit and fruit products. 
( k) Sericulture. 

{.) Bee keeping. 

(m) Fisheries. 

(«) Natural History. 


Illustrative List of Educational 
I. Agriculture Science & Animal Husbandry. 


2. Applied & Fine Arts, 


3. Applied Science. 


4, Business Organisation, ladustrial Management »*d Pahlic 
Administration. 


(a) Handicrafts 

(b) Photography & reprography. 

(rl Commercial aus. 

id) Civic and landscape Arts, 

(e) Plastic anti Orapitk Arts 

( f) Furnishing and Interior Decoration. 

( g ) Dance. Drama, Stage Craft and Choreography. 

(h) Musk: (both vocai & Instrumental) 

(I) Painting and Drawing 

(J) 'lode)ling and Sculptun. 

(4) Textile Designing 

( l) Needle Wot*. V Sowing. 

(m) Cinema & Theatre. 

(h) Potte* 

(<?) Educational scientific and technical books and gems and 
jewellery arid Rapidary. 

(а) Archaeology. 

(б) Museology, 

(c) Archival Seleaes. 

id i Priming Hiodhijt .is, PiibiUa.cg 
h a'nsiitm 
(f ) library Scleacv. 
ig‘ Ma*» Media it r 

(a) Accw*itg: AndWap,' Accountancy 

(i>) Business Managements, 

(e) Banking and Finance. 

(</) Commciee, 

(«) Publicity and Advertisement, 

( f) Sales* Distiibution, 

(g) Civil <6 Public Administration, 

(4) Organisations * Methods. 

(/) Insurance, 

(/) Operational Research, 



[ww I <—mw i] 


RTTW W WTW : WRreTT°T 


187 


5. Education 


6 Bngleeeriat sod Technology. 


APPENDIX 6— Contd. 

List 7 —Contd. 

(a) Educational Psychology. 

(b) Pedagogy—theory & Practice. 

(c) Physical Education St Recreation. 

( d) Teaching Arts. 

(#) Methodology of Education. 

(a) Aeronautic*. 

(b) Town & Country Planning and Architecture. 

(c) Chemical Engineering and Technology. 

(d) Automobile Engineering. 

(*) Electrical Engineering. 

(/) Electronics, Radio, Wireless and Television. 

(g) Mechunlcal Engineering. 

(A) Mining Engineering. 

(O Nuclear Energy. 

( j ) Petroleum Engineering. 

( k ) Textile Engineering. 

(/) Material Engineering. 

(m) Nuclear Engineering and Technology. 

<n) Hydraulic*. 

(o) Telecommunication. 

(j>) Civil and Structural Engineering. 

(g) Highway Engineering. 

(r) Transport Engineering. 

(i) Refrigeration and Neumatic Technology. 

( t ) Workshop Practice. 

(u) Machine St Machine Tool Designing A Construction, 
(y) Instrument Technology. 

(w) Mineral Engineering. 

(*) Automation and Servo-Mechanism. 

(y) Cybernetics. 

(s) Metallurgy. 

(aa) Textile Technology, 

(bb) Manufacturing Process. 

( ee ) Plastic Technology. 

(Jd) Silicate Technology. 

(**) Ceramics, 

( f) Leather Technology. 

( gg) Agricult are Engineering. 

(AA) Applied Geology * Geophytle*. 

( U) Navel ArohMeoStsri A Doc lyard Coaetreetlee. 

(//) Reproduction Buglesei lag. 

(AA) Assumbly A Coe»ti«e«los feeheolugy, 

(II) Spue Seeearoh A Satellite Engineer leg, 

!w) Compete! Soiree*. 

(ee) System Engineering, 
feel Bnv'ronoeentel Senece. 




188 


[Part I—-Sec. 1] 


7. Humanities. 


8. Medical Sclcnca. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
APPENDIX 6— Contd. 




(i; Civic*. 

(A) Philosophy—Eastern A Western. 

U) Logic. 

(tJ) History. 

(*! Geography & Cartography. 

(/) Law & Legal Affairs (National A International). 
(«•) Ontology A Methodology. 

(A) Ethics. 

(i) Standard Literary Criticism. 

(/) Religion, 


(a) Anatomy A Physiology. 

( b) Childcare A Paediatrics. 

* (e) Dentology. 

(d) Ear, Nose and Throat. 

(«) Embryology. 

(/) Health. 

(g) Gynaecology A Obstetrics. 

(A) Nursing. 

(/) Histology. 

( j ) Ophthalmology. 

( k ) Psychiatry. 

(!) Pharmacology. 

(m) Pharmacy. 

(ri) Therapeutics and Toxicology. 

(o) Medicine. 

(p) Surgery. 

(a) Biology. 

(r) Biochemistry. 

(t»> Hospital Administration, Medical Care Administration. 
Health Administration, Public Health Administration and 
Nursing Administration. 

( s) HnspiteKHealtb Planning. 

(u) Rehabilitation. 

(y) Cane r. 

(*■) T*lo-medfca! Engineering. 

M Human Genetics. 

(H Health Economic*- 
>n Sonia! Sciences. 

Hospital Cont'n?, 

(bb) Neurology and Neurosurgery. 

(re) Cardiology aud Cardiothorocls. 

(dd) Paediatric Surgery, 
fee) Naxto-fadal and Plastic Surgery, 
iff) Urology. 
igg) Ortho-paedlcs. 



[*tpt I —m i] 


9. Military Science and it* History 


10. Pure Scitoet, 


11. Reference Booki. 


12. Social Science 


13. Text b:>oks including books of ficti in 
Educational Board of Auth n't' 


«rK 3 ^ TRW • 3 Tm¥ITni 


189 


APPENDIX b— Contd. 

Li-it i—1_ o field 


la) Air. Naval and Military Engineering and Technology. 

*} Arms S’ ammunition and equipment, 

) Military History. 

.•i) Military Strategies and Modem Technique* of warfare. 


i Biysic*i 
Hi ChcmWry, 

(c) Math matics. 

(d) hIc;>"< sd Doetrrncm&s-ce, 

(r As r r , 'ri('n»» and Allied Sctec*. 

j i t 

t I s bflk.Jgy. 

O 2k*ol >gy 
»/j i eulogy 
£ ./ j BoUtE', 

•a) Bibliographies. 

(o) Who's svfio end Current Aiiair*. 

(a uuteuirsa 
in t ..u/c! raedtL 
. ;n les. 

U) Adaso' ' 

(g) Map 

(h) Languag* & PI ai % Bocks. 

(I) B ' >ks in prints & Cata'oguos. 

O') B .oks .1 classification of Books. 

(fc) ti -OX- . . (>l 

J, -\y ‘erloattto’* 
ij * -at, 4 s —* i 

, y f --1 ■ li 

la' Pysdi J gy inclu lingpara & pseudo psychology 
lb) Anihropclogy. 

<cl Political s nonce. 
f d) Economics. 

(e) H :me Science. 

t f) 1 ..'pitnay A 5oc‘ai Sostnutiur, 

(?) Cul'ure & Civil .»ucu 

(h) Crimisology & hitr-ohe c.etkiuehcv 

which are picsuribed or lecommcndcd for stud’es in Educational Institutions by a recognised 


14. Children books covered by sublets sp<.cifi‘d ab ivt. 

15. Back volumes of Scientific Technical Legal and Men e~d j .ah* Second h&mij. 



190 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 

APPENDIX 6— (Contd,) 

LIST 8 
PART—I 

ITEMS OF RAW MATERIALS, COMPONENTS, AND CONSUMABLES ALLOWED FOR IMPORT 
UNDER OPEN GENERAL LICENCE BY ACTUAL USERS (INDUSTRIAL) ONLY, SUBJECT TO 

ACTUAL USER CONDITION 


Chemical and Allied Items : 

1. Absorbable gelatine sponge. 

2. Acetoacet Compounds, the following i— 

(1) Acetoacet diethylamide. 

(2) Acetoacet dimethylamidc. 

(3) Acetoacet monomethylamide. 

(4) Aoetoacct-M-xylidide. 

(5) Acctoacet-O-Anisidide. 

3- Acetophenone (also known as methyl ketone 
or acetyl benzene). 

4, Acetyl sulpbanyl chloride. 

5. Acrylic plastic sheets of 0.85 mm to 1.2 mm 
thickness and acrylic plastic scrap (crushed). 

6 . Acrylic fibre tips, polyacetal tips and ink 
catridges for writing instruments. 

7. Activated alumina, 

8. Agar agar (other than pharmaceutical grade). 

9 . Alfamyl Cinnamic aldehyde. 

10. Alpha Pinene. 

11 Aluminium oxide (including polishing powder) 
synthetic. 

12- Aluminium powder/tlakes of industrial explo¬ 
sive grade. 

13. Amino iso gamma acid/salt 

14. 1-Amino 2-Naphihol 4-Sulphooic acid/sall. 

13. 1-Amino 6-Nitro 2-Naphthol 4-Sulphonic add/ 
salt 

lfl. Amino-Phy line. 


17. Ammonium thiocyanate (Ammonium sulphocya- 
nide thiocyanate of Rhodanide and Rhodantum) 

18. Amobarbitol. 

19. Amoxacillin sodium. 

20. Amphetamine sulphate. 

21. Ampicillin sodium. 

22 . Amyl alcohol. 

23. Androstenolone. 

24 Androsienedionc. 

23. Animal glue and belt dressings. 

26. Anti-corrosive Agents (other than ethylene 
diamine 

27. Antimony oxide. 

28 Art and chrome paper and Art and chrome 
board, 

29 Azo-Ribnylamme 

30. Barbitol 

31. Battery depolarized Chemical of gamma 
variety. 

32. Benzophcnoue. 

33. Benzoyl Peroxide 

34. Bcnzoyl-J-acid/salt. 

35 BeDzyl cyanide. 

36. Betamethasone and Its salts. 

37. Beta naphlhylamlne. 

38. Billiard cloth, rubber cushions for Billiard 
tables. 

3?. Bismuth. 




1] 


strer ttsiw : srerram 


191 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-1— Coned. 


40. Black Paper (Photographic grade) 

41. Bleaching Earth. 

42. Bromine. 

43. Bronidiol (2-Bromo-2-rmro prop^?-l„i-i>!C.T 

44. Butylated hydroxy j Aoi 
45 Calamine 

46- Calcium cittaic 

47. Calcium gluconate, i •fecu.oi >* 

48 Calcium manganese Uicon alloys. 

49. Carbons, Arc Air'C-iugiuR. 

50. Carbon black—for printing ink, pamt and carbon 
paper manufacturers only. 

51. Carbon electrode bi >cks, green/baked/kili ed. 

52. Carbon electrode paste tVKicrbe-' paste) 

33. l-Carboxy-l-(p-suiph -phe, y!)-j-r,jr.ni...p--, 

54, Case hard.nmg oonipouud, 

55. Casein oased giazmgs acts ureson^ tor u.ath„ 
finishing. 

56 Catalysts (organic/morgana?) -older, tnan those 
in Appendix 3 Part A 

37. Cathode blocks 

58. Cellulose acetan u.jtv-jc . -uta, mourn t*, 

powder 

59. Cellulose acetate liakc>/puwaer/vtupa 

60. Cellulose acetate/nitrate sheet. 

61. Cellulose povvde. .nciuutug mluo. rystallJne 
cellulose powder, 

62. Chart paper/Recording paper 

63. Chlorampterdcol Stearate and iiVnu ’Lsic-* 
St>dtum Succinate. 

64. Chlothexldine ba' j 

63. Oldoto dimethnit bv-niu.n'. 

66 Chloro-dlmethoxy nt4«o benaa-ne 

67 3 Chloro-4 Metho*»phenyl Uocya.mn. 

68 O' ^•luwt d rabb i t aD to, !g r-c < ji>.*r 

69 2-{/.-ddoi" N-stii riy actk > >' . • < Hi, 
pi'eMrs 

70. 2-chloro-2, 6-diethyl-N meth\l aatambde fAru 

methane 


71. Chloio para uitru toluene, chloro para amino 

toluene. 

>2. Chlorpheniramine maleate, 

73 Chloroquin Sulphate. 

74. Clay bonded graphite crucibles site above 300. 

<5 Coooamme. 

?6 Colloidal graphite, 

77. Condensor insulating and impregnating oils. 

78. Condensor, Rubbing Aprons for Woollen Cards 
and Rubber Blankets for printing industry. 

79 Cotiveyot belting, other than conveyor belting 
upto 1700 mm width. 

80. Colloidal and fumed silica 

81. Copper cyanide. 1 

82. Cortisone acetate. , 

83. Cotton Enters. 

84. Cumidine Isocyanate. 

85. Cushion felts and soft sponge sheets with or 
without cotton ply. 

86 . Cyanuric Chloride. 

SI oyclobai bind. 

88. 4-Cynopyridine. 

89. Decaicom&uia Papers/Transfer*, 

90 DBA acetate 

91 lo-DPA, 

02 De;tameth*iiOOC. 

93. Dexti an powder, 

94 Dejtiroaaiphuamine and its salti. 

95. Du iiiose an tydiout 

96. Dextrose monohydrate. 

91 Dia'syi i >«• nUtt, moulding compound, 

98' 1 4 • . c ben? -pC r. s , 

% ) • ty! if< mbaim* 

i 00 Di-Calcium phosphate. 


192 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. ,1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


101. 2 i 4 Dichloro benzole acid. 

102. 2, 4 Dichloro bencoyl chloride. 

103. 2, 4 Dichloro toluene. 

104. Di-ethylsulphate. 

105. Dl-J-acid/salt (Rhodullne acld/salt). 

106. Dimenhydrinate. 

107. Dimethyl acetamide. 

108. 2 i 5 Dimethyl-4-chlorophenyl thioglycolic acid 

109. Dimethyl Chloro-tetracyciinc. 

110. 2 ! 5 Dlmethoxy aniline. 

111. 2 t 0 Dlmethoxy nitio benzene. 

112. Dl-oxyazlne, 

113. Diphenhydramine hydrochloride. 

114. Dichloro acetic acid. 

115. Dl-tertiary butyl meta crcsol. 

116. Divinyl benzene monomer. 

117. Drawing reproduction films Including matted 
polyester film, trading/drafting films and diazo- 
sensitised films. 

118. Dyes/Uye-stuffs/organlc pigments and colours, 
other than those in Appendix 3 Part'A. 

119. 2—Ethyl Hexanoic acid (Octoic acid). 

120.. Ebonite rods, sheets and tubes. 

121. Electrical insulating materials—all types, but 
excluding condensor and capacitor tissue paper, 

122. Electrocast refractories with Zirconia content 
40% and above. 

123. Electrolytic manganese dioxide. 

124. Empty hard gelatine capsules. 

125. Ephedrlne hydrochloride. 

126. (1) Epoxy/Epoxide resin. 

(//) Coumarone indene resin. 

(iii) Terpene indene resin/Polyterpene resin, 
(/v) Epoxy/Epoxide moulding compounds. 

127. Epoxy Plasticizers. 

128. Ergot Sclerotia (Ergot of Rye) 

129 Erythromycin ethyl succinate. 


130. Estradiol Benzoate. 

131. Estrone. 

132. Etching chemicals i.e. additive filming agents— 
for "Printing units only”. 

133. Bthiny) estradiol. 

134. Ethisterone. 

135. Ethoxymethylene malonic acid ester (EMME). 

136. Ethylene glycol mono ethyl ether/acetate. 

137- Ethyl monochloro acetate. 

138. Ethylpheny! cyanoacetic ester, 

139- Ethylphenyl malonic ester. 

140. Fat liquors. 

141. Filter Aids. 

142. Filter paper including impregnated. 

143. Filter paper for tea bags heat-seal/non-heat 
seal type—for manufacturers of tea bags only. 

144. Film Splicers. 

145. Flocculating agents based on poly acrylamide 
(dispex). 

146. Fluo boric add. 

147. Frusemidc (Furosemidej. 

148. Purfuralamine. 

149. Glass fibre articles, the following :— 

(/) Fibre glass filter bags. 

(//) Fibre glass cylinders and fibre glass insula- 
Jated tapes used in switchgears and rotating 
machines, 

{Hi) Fibre glass reinforced cryogenic necks and 
tubes for cyro containers. 

(fv) Alumlnised glass fibre fabrics. 

150. Glass wool (other than 1-micron dta). 

151. Glutethimide 
]52. Glycol ethers, 

153. Glycerine. 



[*i 1*1 I l] 




193 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


154. Granulated cork. 

155. Graphite electrodes 21* diameter and above. 
15(J. Griscofulvin. 

157. Gum Rosin. 

158. Halothane including Halo thane in bottles. 

159. Heat absorbing filters. 

160. Heatset/hot carbonised printing inks.—for 
printing industry only. 

161. Heat transfer oil, (synthetic). 

162. Hexachloroethane. 

163. High density alumina grinding media. 

164. Hydrocortisone. 

165. Hydrocortisone acetate. 

166. Hydrogen peroxide. 

167. 8-Hydroryquinoline. 

168. Indomethacin. 

169. Impregnating oil for electric paper board 
insulators and cable filling oils/compounds— 
for units engaged in cable industry only. 

170. Industrial diamonds including powder (other 
than gem variety). 

171. Iron/Alloy Iron Powder—for sintered products 
manufacturers. 

172. Insecticides, pesiticidcs and weedicides, the 
following :— 

(1) Aldicarb 

(2) Benomyl. 

(3) Cap tan. 

(4) Dalapon. 

(5) Dicofol 

(0) Fdiftnplos 

(7) Ethylene Di-bromide. 

(8) Mancozeb. 


(9) Phenothoatc. 

(10) Propanil 

(11) Propoxur 

(12) Zineb Technical 85% and above. 

173- Industrial Nylon Yam of 210 denier and above. 

174. Industrial X-ray films. 

175. Inositol. 

176. Insulating oils (synthetic) including chlorinated 
diphenyl other than transfoi mar oil synthetic. 

177 Investment castings waxes. 

178. Isoamyl alcohol. 

V79. I 90 bornyl acetate. 

180, Isobutyl acetate, 

181. Iso propyl alcohol. 

182 Iso propyl ethc r . 

183. Iso propyl-methyl-exy-pyrimidine. 

184, J-acid/salt. 

185 /-acid urea/sait. 

186. Jumbo rolls of width 1 metre and above of the 
following :— 

(0 Cinematographic Colour films (unexposed) 
positive. 

(ii) Amateur Rolls films. 

(Hi) Graphic Art films. 

(tv) Industrial X-Ray Film. 

(v) Medical X-Ray Film. 

( vi ) Photographic Colour Paper. 

187 Kaoamycin. 

188. Laboratory & reagent chemicals, the following:— 

(i) Methyl iodide, pure quality. 

(ii) Potassium amyl xanthate. 

( ill ) Potassium ethyl xanthate, 

(/v) Potassium ret tabisulpliite, anaiar qnality. 

(v) Sodium bisulphate, pure and analar quality 
(4) Sodium ethyl "'anthate, 

Sodium Lo pmpji A.mttate. 

[vili) Sodium tneUbisuiphilc, pme-and a ruth r 
quality. 



194 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LI SI 

189. Lacquers and varnishes—including emulsions, 
thereof. 

190. Lasamide » diehioro 5-Su'tphainoyl bensoic 
acid). 

191. Laurents acid. 

192. Lustre colour. 

(93 Magnesia insulating materials. 

194. Magnesium carbonate, light. 

195 Magnesium oxide, tight. 

196- Manddamin. 

197. Mdudelic acid. 

198. Manganese dioxide, chemical synthetic/monda 
grade/natural 

199. Manganese oxide. cheimcal/synthctic/mon<D 
grade. 

200. Magnesium Powder 

201. Matrix boards/Stereo flongr. 

202. Mebavarine Hydrochloride. 

203. Mebendazole. 

204. Melamine impregnating pap^i. 

205. Melton cloth for tennis balls. 

206 Mepiieriesm (glyceryl orthoeresyl etnei). 

207. Motachloro aniline. 

208. Meta nitrobenzene Suiphomc acid. 

209. Meta nitro chloto benzene. 

210. Meta-phenoxy beuzaldehyde. 

211. Metallic acetates. 

212. Metallic Yarn. 

213. Meta sjbstmted aiicyl phenil (Catbonol). 

214. Mcthampbetamine. 

215. Methyl anthranilite. 

216- Methyl chloride. 

217. Methyl dich’oro 

218. Methylene chlorid* 

219. Methyl etiiyl oviid, u. 

220. Methyl format*. 

221. Methyl Isobutyi Ketone 
222 4-M,*thU-5-Thiaz A-ethan • 

223. Metol. 

224. Micro-cellular sheets including PVC battery 
separators. 

225. Miscfa metal. 

226. Molecular sieves. 

227 Molybdenum based greases and ! iib' : catii*» 


8 PART-I— Contd. 

228. Monoetnyieae glycrs’. 

229. Musk ketone 

230. Musk xylol. 

231. Naptha (solvent grade). 

232. 2-Naphthyl thioglycolic acid, , 

’33 Nature! ginphite carbon blocks 
234. NN Diethyl aniline. 

235 N—(P. (Bela(2 methoxy-5 chloro benzamide 
ethyl) phenyl sulphenyl urea. 

236. Nikethamide, 

237. Nitrazepam 

238 4-Nitre, 2-amir,n phenol 

239. Nylon 66 - moulding powder having melting 
point 260°C and above. 

140 s a ' acid' .ite 

241. Nylon Mono-filament bristles. 

\ 

242. Nylon partially oriented yarn (NOY). 

243. Nylon waste—for actual user (Industrial) 
engaged in recovery of Caprolactum as 
certified by DGTD, N. Delhi. 

244 t rest, .d 

245. Oil well cement—*For ONGC & Oil India Ltd. 

only. 

246. Optical g’-a-iS paw;. 

247. Optical whitening agents 

248. Organic surface active agents (other than soap), 
and also excluding those mentioned in Appen¬ 
dix-3 Part A 

249. ’"irtco aioito r-.*e..o! 

250 Orth i V. .o aniline 

251. Ortbo-en. -,o i : i „uipuophenyl)-3-methyl-3 py¬ 
razolone. 

252. ..vrtliJ c .. h< j ra nitro aniline. 

253 Ortho-ohlcro phenol. 

254. Ortho-d«an« .idinr 
*55 Ortho nhciMtlun*'.. 

<;56 Ox>» 

257 to>adi—h’Oiocjdoildc/base. 

258. I -w •*- «t N-' gbitande acLL 
59 P-Chhiobi uzy' cy«snlde 

260. Panthenols. 

26!. Paper Waste—( >r Units engaged In the manu¬ 
facture of pulp paper and paper board. 

2ft Par# amino Hrnsioic add 



I—rre 1] 


srararcw 


195 


APPENDIX 6 LlSf 8 PAR f-1— Contd. 


264. Parachioro aniline, 

265 P-chiorobenione Sulphenyl urea. 

266. Para chloro Benzyl cyanide. 

267. Parachioro ortho nitro-aniline, 

268 Parachioro phenol. 

269. Para cresyl phenyl acetate. 

270 Para cumidine Isocyanate. 

27P —Deleted— 

272. Para formaldehyde. 

273. Paraffinic/napthenic/arotnatJc rubber plasticisers. 

274. Para hydroxy benzoic acid 

275. Paraldehyde. 

276. Para nitro aniline. 

277. Para nitroanisole. 

278. Para nitro benzoic acid. 

279. Para toluene sulphonyl chloride. 

280 Para toluidine meta sulphonic add (PTMSi. 

281. Para Toluidine-5-sulphonic acio and its call,. 

282. KP-Sulphopnenylp3-methyl-5-pv!azoioae. 

283. Pentabarbitol. 

284. Perchloro ethylene. 

285. Pethidine Hydrochloride. 

286 Peri acid/salt. 

287. Phenetoin sodium and Diphenyl Hydantoin. 

288. Pie liramine maleite 

289. Phenol formaldehyde resinous tubes, whetfte* 
paper bonded based or fabric based und/or 
paper based rods 

290. (i) Phenrol Formaldehyde moulding powder 

(electrical grade). 

(//) Urea Formaldehyde moulding powder 
(electrical grade). 

(iii) Melamine Formaldehyde moulding powder 
(electrical grade) 

291. Phenoxv aceiic acid and its salts. 

292. Phenyl hydrazine. 

293. Phenyl J. acid|salt. 

294. Phenyl peri acidlsalt 
295 Phosphorous (redt 


296. Phosphorous (amorphous) i.e. white/yellow 

phosphorous 

297 P losphorous pentasulphide. 

298 Ph ^phurous (richlond. 

^99. °ht '.phrric tujd (tadu c+ rhl gradei 
300 P'colme beta and gamma 

301. Pig iron containing phosphorous not more 
than 0.1%. 

302. Pigment finishes for leather. 

303. Plain polyester film. 

304. Plain, felt sheets. 

305 Pdyetnylene msin/mouid'ng p<>wu;i/granulc» 

(all grades) i 

306 ester Staple Fibre. 

> 

307 Polymethyl Methacrylate .nou! ling pellets 
(Acrylic Pellets) 

308 Polypropylene tlbu'tow. 

309 Polypropylene/polvctbyleiv filament yam fall 
types). 

310. Polystyrene resin/granules/moulding powder. 

311. Polyvinyl acetate/acrylato and co-polymers. 

312. Polyvinyl »lc<>h >1 

313 Pe lyvinyl bury Ml 'fiec 1 .', 

314 Potassium Compound) the following:-- 

(1) P' ■(as-’v.m bicarb* note. 

(2) Pcs i - -lutn tluob «irt*. 

(>) P iiassmm ifuoride hR arid loduuoal grade 
(4) Potassium meta bimiphit 
0) PoU 'iani -.ilicii 
* l 1> ii- i*;i u fi 1 '*'■ 

_>s5 °re.i • 

316 P- i. isont 

317 Pregnenolone 



196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


318. Pressphan paper (electrical and industrial 
grades). 

319. Primidone. 

32Q. PTFE tapes. 

321. PTFE tubes. 

322. PVC film with embossing, engraving and tcx~ 
turned finish. 

323 PVC separators. 

324. Pure Iron (Unwrought form) for remelting 
purposes. 

325. (a) Pure ortho or pure para or pure meta 

' cresols (both chemical and technical grades) 

each of purity not less than 97 %. 

( b ) High boiling far acids and cresote oil 
haring boiling range above 220oC. 

326. Pyrazinamide. 

327. Pyridine. 

328. Quality Control film strips and targets—for 
printing units only. 

329. Quartz and fused blanks, slabs, sheets for 
making pcism c and 'safes, etc. 

330. Radio Active material ") For actual users on 

331. Rare Earth Oxide inclu- production of recom- 

ding rutile sand. J mendation from 

Depat. of Atomic 
Energy. 

332. Rayon grade woodpulp. 

333 Rangohte <J, %odium sulphoxwte formal* 
duhyde 

334 Recording Chart/E.C.G. recording paper. 

335, Refractories -tar bonded impie^a-ved basic 
Refiuctoncs, Fused Cast dmvbrrh.tndtd bade 
refractories including DBM with *!< a content 
upto 6% 

336- Refractory Specialities like monoliths and 
refractory raw materials like mullite. Sin¬ 
tered alumina, Sintred mullite but excluding 
calcined bauxite. 

337. Ribityiamsne. 

338. Rifampicin. 

339. Rose crystals (trichloromethyl p'tvcH caibinyl 
acetate). 

340. Rough opthalmic blanks (other than those 
made of polymethyl methacrylate plastic) ex¬ 
cluding fu-.d rd,.-.a! blanks 

341. Rubbct bLnk?F. all types (other than those for 

pdnl'USC LldUi ~vt 

342. Rubber conveyor Belting upto 1700 mm width 
reinforced with cottOn/cotton nylon'. 


343. Rubber chemicals such as accelerators, eating 
agents, anti-oxidants, retarders, peptLers and 
re-claiming a rent; (except those mentioned in 
4ppendix-3 Part*A) 

\ 

344. Rubber thread, the following types :— 

(0 Bare rubber thread above 90 gauges. 

(»/) Heat resisting rubber thread. 

345. Salbufemol. 

346. Salicylic acid including sodium salicylate. 

347. Schaeffer’s acid/salt. 

348. Secobarbitone. 

349 Seeobarbitone sodium. 

350. Shuttle cock bottom. 

351. Silicon carbide grains. 

352. Silicon carbide graphite crucible size over' 100 
and carbon bonded graphite crucibles, 

353. Silicone compounds/fluids/oils/resins (excluding 
chlorosilaues). 

354. Silver cyanide. 

355. Sintered glass beads 

356. Slidegate Refractory plates other than magnisite 
based plates (excluding well blocks and nozzles 
and nozzles of all types),fused silica refractories 
and carbon refractories. 

357. Sodium brormde. 

358. Sodium chlorate. 

359. Sodium chlorite. 

360. Sodium fluoride. 

361. Sodium methoxide. 

362. Sodium mono fluto phosphate. . 

363. Sodium salt-oxal acetic ester/oxal acetic ester; 
oxal gceiio e'her sodium salt. 

364. Sodium Sulphate. 

365. Solvent naptha. 

366. Soya lecithin. 

367. Specialised tissues the following :— 

(a) Carbonising tissues and 

( b ) Coloured and pectoral cigarette tissues. 

368. Spin/fibre/textile finishing oils-:; 11 types whethe/ 
organic surfactant in nature or otherwise, as 
long as they ire needed for natural and man 
made fibre industries. 



[m I—E? i] 


*rrer su : srcfrcrrwr 


197 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-]—ComA 


369. Stamping foil*,. 

370. Stencil paper, 

371. Stickers, lables and gummed r»* r 

372. Succinic acid. 

373. Succinyl chlorine chloride 

374. SulphauimetiK xiue 

375. Sulphafura/clf 

376. SulphameUiotypyr'oa, iiu-. 

377. Synthetic bleaching agent * {« IK r t '-n bkarhu.# 
powder or hypo-d 1 'rite }, 

378 Synthetic ion exchange resins except otic**' 

exchange resins. 

379. Synthetic organic tanning agent.,. 

380. Synthetic Pyrethrum (including synthetic pyr> 
throids othei than deejrauhnu, pcimr-hnu. 
cypermethrm, fenvalrale). 

381. Synthetic red oxide and Per nan o at* 

382. Synthetic rubber except Butyl rubber, Ne«>prei 
chloroprenc, Hypulon, Viion, Broinobatyl, 
chlorobutyl, PTFH and F..P.D.M. 

383. Synthetic ruby, unvvorked. 

384. Taghoard. 

385. Teleprinter perforated paper, roll' and taoc . 

386. Terbutaline sulphate 

387. Tetra coloroothane. 

388. Tetra sodium pyrophosphate and other ool>- 
phosphates of sodium 

389. Theophyllines. 

390. Thiazole/thiazolo guanidine derivative . 

391. Thionyl chloride. 

392. Thiuram derivatives. 

393. Thymol. 

394. Titanium sponge. 

395. Tinidazole. 

396. TIOC (Erithromycin tbiocymk '. 

397. Tobias acid/sait. 

398. Transfer press-phan paper. 

399. Tri-alkyl phosphate. 

400. Tri-aryl phosphate. 

401. Tri-methyl Phosphate. 

402. Triethanolamine titanate and isoprooyJ tm- 
nate. 


403. Trimethyl phosphite. 

404. .3, \ *• Vjjvcthoxv \ ,i/ Hrhu 

405. Tris Nonyl Phenyl phosphite. 

4C6. I.i-p f i r cl 1 

407. Unsat mated alcohal (C-13 to C-18). 

408. Used/Sciap rubber tyres/tubes (each tyre/ 
tube subjected to atleast one cut before ship¬ 
ment from the exportng country or before 
clearance from the customs)—for units engaged 
in reclaiming rubber. 

409. Vanillin/ethyl Vanillin (including mixed lignin 

aldehyde). u 

4K). •*>.O’ ; ,.i 

411. Viscose staple fibre including polynosic 
fibre/tow. 

412. Vitamin B-6 (Pyridoxin H, 1/Pyridoxin base) 
and intermediates of pyridoxin. 

4i3 V P.s paix> 

4J4 ►d fi re •> eels, o.,, •*»<( H't9. 

415. Watch greases. 

416. Wax emuLions. 

417. V/ 4 gte,> = * 

418. Woollen rags/synthetic rags/shoddy wool in 
completely pre-mutilated form only. 

4,9 Woven teViD !elt> ttiuding paper maker felts 

420, Z nc rv’mdc. 

421 Zirconium .‘icaie and zir_ >murn opecifiers, 
mduding v > nu.n dour ure u'uu powder 
and f rer o ■ vdc. 

Engineer.!!?* and \di-d Perns 

422 Af-ro s A vatv-.odei than ni Pered type. 

423. (0 3490/3420 Taper Roller Bearings 38.1mm. 

(«) 02475/0240 Taper Roller 
31.75mra. 

(Hi) 2585/2523 S Taper Roller Bearing 33.338mm 

(iv) 32305 Taper Roller bearings (Outer bearing 
FRT hub 25 mm). 

(v) Split type Roller Bearing. 

424. All other ball cylindrical, taper, spherical 
and othei refer beatings including needle 

.roller bearings needle bushes ano needle cages 
and components thereof not =pecdkd anywhere 
else. 



198 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec, 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 

425. All germanium devices 

426. Aluminium/Aluminium alloys in solid Section- 
pipes and tubes fall extruded aluminium items} 
other than aluminium collapsible tubes, rigid 
cans and containers. 

427. Aluminium capillary tubing. 

428. Aluminium rolled product#, sheets, strips, 
circles and slugs. 

429. Aluminium foils (including etched and formed 
foils’! 

430. Aluminium slats for Venetian blinds. 

431. Anti-corrosion packing paper. 

432- Ballpen refill tips nozzles 

433. Berryllium Copper wire/rods/tubes/coils/strips/ 
sheets with or without plating. 

484. Bifurcated and tubular rivets. 

435. Bimctal/multi-metal strips of all composition 
including ferrous and non-ferrous composition 
with or without steel backing excluding strips 
for thermostatic type bimetnl/tri—metal/multi¬ 
metal strips and copper/aluminium bimetal 
strips. 

436. Blades for Shearing and tropping machines— 

for textile mills only. 

437. Brazed aluminium plate and fumed heat 
exchangers for—Air separation plants. 

438. Buttweld type pipe fittings less than IS' dia. 

439. Catbon arc lamps which opeiate at 120 amps, 
and above, complete with or without their 
cooling systems 

440 Carfildge fuse*—250 V and upto 10 amp. o< 
tile type Tittle Delay/slow Blow aud Antisurge 
1 ,* t Acting 

441. Centrifugally cast seamless steel pipes end 
tubes, (including stainless steel) upto 375 nun 

.lift 


442 Chains :— 

(u) Kuhn chains and components thrr^of 

no *lbip chains, hoisting <hain* viz, uu wrought 
Iron srid uteel. sud link rliame, xeldcd 


8 PART-I— Contd. 

link chains for anchoring, hoisting and 
mining applications, including all other 
types of link chains and components 
thereof other than those which are covered 
under Appendix 3 Part-A. 

443. Chemical porcelain ware and ceramics for over 

1200°C temperature applications. 

444. Charge Nickel all sorts including Ferro Nickel 
and Nickel Oxide Sinter. 

445. Civil Engineering instruments the following :— 

(1) Strain transducers. 

(2) Stress transducers. 

(3) Displacement transducers. 

(4) Pressure transducers. 

446. Clay graphite and graphite stopper heads and 
nozzles including fire clay stopper heads and 
no*zl< * 

447. Commutators for motors and generators 
including commutator segments. 

448. Condenser bushings above 245 KV rating. 

449. Consumables for foot-wear and leather goods 
manufacturers :— 

(1) Pre-punched cards used in leather foot-wear. 

(2) Plastic/PVC/Nylon tests with or without 
steel hinges. 

(3) Cutting and clicking dies. 

(4) Polyethylcne/Nylon/P VC/Poly ester hytro- 
nic type clicking boards. 

(5) Aluminium shoe forms with or without 
heating element. 

(6) Silver marking pens. 

(7) Industrial sewing machine needles with 
leather. 

(8) Harness needles for hand sewing. 

(9) Bell/skiving knives. 

(10) Plastic pattcrni. 

(11) Band knife for splitting machines. 

(12) Stamping wheels. 

(13) Hand sewing awls. 

(14) Plastlc|Nylon fipp«d hammers. 

(15) Thermoplastic Cemeni such as Polyamide, 
Polyurethane, Resins in rods or granules. 

450. CopperlAhiminmm|micro-metal sheets used 
in the manufacture of blocks for printing 
units only 



fsmr f—m lj 


^TRg' SU ’CfSps^: arUYS T T ' S T 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 

451. Copper clad wire (Dumet) dia 0.2mm to 
1.00mm. 

452. Copper and copper alloy*; in he form of 
plain sheets wider than 1200 nun and foils 
of thickness below 0 06 mru, 

453. Copper moulds (for continuous billet casting)— 
for integrated steel plants, mini-steel plants and 
electric arc furnace. 

454. Corner Castings of freight containers. 

455. Cupro-nickel (like German silver, Nickel 
silver) semis flat products and wire. 

456. D.C. Circuit breakers/ fie id b r ea‘<er<\ 

457. Dies for teeth mould—electroform. 

458 Dry cell batteries other than those based on 
manganese dioxide 

459. Door seals far freight containers. 

460. Electric reshtancc alloy 1 Emeus bn'eril »r the 
forms of rods, wires and i< np i 

461. Electromagnetic c’nbhf** wd chimh obte 

462. Endless triple wire mesh of 65/195 or finer. 

463. Filter segments. 

464 Flame proof 1 explosion proof slipiing (including 
geared) motors, 

465. Flame-proof cable half couplers straight and 
bent adopters. 

466. Tractional Horse Power Electric Motets 
excluding instrument cooling fan motors, micio- 
motors, brushless I) C. motors, stepper motors. 
Servo moiots, eleclueal brake motors upto 
torque rating not r\tending 7trt» >u-,t *■ n I 
(15 Kg. crn)/or upt i 20 Win ■ din,> 

467. Fresnel lensesicondensors. 

468. Fuses, fast acting, suitable for diodes and thyris¬ 
tors. 

469. Gas lighter elements. 

470 Glassmetic terminal (or s« vpb 

0 5 HP 

471. Glass micro fibre paper filters. 

47? (Uni *nr t ,f o lj 


8 PART-I — Contd. 

473 Glass Screens and contact screens (Grey and 
Mageta)/Colour fillers—for printing units only. 

47-4 Glass Tubing for Hypodermic syringes. 

475 Gun metal bushes, 

476 He, ting elements e* eluding those covered in 
Appendix 3 Part A 

477. tli>t tussle b-dt , t< it> irid sluik, 

478. High efficiency DC and brushless Motors 

479. High efficiency pumps- for solar energy equip¬ 
ments. 

430 (a) Horolog'cal Brass strips w.th accurate flatness, 
bright regular surface and sheared edges, 
t sickness ti 1 ranee of T-3 and width tole¬ 
rance of B—iB grate thickness range 0.10 
to 2.00 mm. 1 

(b) Horobgic.il Brass tods, bright drawn or 
control ss gr > m 1 finish 11 pcifectly-straigh- 
tndl lgths u> to 3 m.tres with diameter 
t*il ranc . i H 7 g’uub. Dmtn t. r range— 
0.60 to i 1 0 mm.—For wmch/dock/Time- 
pp.ces man tfactmxrs (nuehmtal and Quartz 
At abgur 0 

48 J. Indicating instruments (dash board instruments) 
and components thereof for antomotiVe vehicles/ 
equipments and stalionar; engines. 

4*2 h’ t" ! Ki si. 

483 (J i , ' r> •’! •. • inu ;e«u Ones 

' > j< • l .i ' mo i * • ’ 

484 >’( . »s 

435. Items of carbon steel flanges, discs of all sizes 
above 1000 mm and ri.b' of all si/es above 
1500mm nominal b< tc and ..bove O.D. 2000mm. 

bo I'tsnument Cools lg Fan Motors. 

137 *,t»t in Append*® 3 


1 . Inn > R.M sqdbs 

489. lnsulatoi for Pollution O'nUol equipment. 

190 finuiati'is lor r» tnsfmi.v«* svviu |> years and 
other dutu.d! v.juipmcnt*, ol rating 400 KV 
and ah we 

491. Inverters. 

I’7 Kesl'w r *r. ! h’n 4**1! » o.’l,' 



200 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Pa$t I Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


493. Load alloys. 

494. Lead Glass Tubing, 


518. Pneumatic/hydraulic equipment (such as pumps, 
motors, cylinders, valves, accumulators, power 
packs etc.) and components thereof. 


495. Lead scrap including ash, skimming, blowings 
and dresses. 


519. Polysilicon, single crystal silicon ingots/bars/ 
rods other than metallurgical Grade silicon. 


496. Lifting magnets. 


497. Lithographic coated plates. 


498. (0 Litho rules for perforating 
. slitting creasing etc. 

(ii) Anti off-set spray powder. 


1 




For printing 
units only. 


499. Long life batteries for PV application. 


520. Point and quantity wheels used in dispensing 
pumps. 

521. Potentiometers and rheostats—all types. 

522. Power driven pumps Including high pressure 
water jetting equipment but excluding those 
mentioned in Appendix 3 Part-A. 


500. Low wattage, high intensity electrical bulbs 
and tubes for PV application. 

501. Mail eyes—for printing units only. 

502. Metal plates for rotary press. 

503. Micanite insulating materials including V-Rings, 
cones, shells, tubes and separators, 

504. Micro motors/brake motors/stepper motors/AC 
motors, upto 20 Watts rating excluding those 
for electronic watches. 

505. Midget carbon electrodes. 

506. Miniature button cells. 

507. Mirror/reflectors, water cooling filaments and 
associated filaments for carbon arc lamps, 

508. Multimesh disc filters (spinneret filters) and 
elements. 

509. Needles for industrial sewing machines. 

510. (!) Nickel plated steelwire dia 0.05 mm to 
1.5 mm. 

(ii) Nickel plated silicon Brofize wire (VERNKO) 
dia 0.05 mm to 1.5 mm. 


523. Pressure and non-pressure pipes and tubes:— 

(/) Welded pipes and tubes other than size* 
ranging above 500 mm OD. 

(H) Seamless alloy and carbon steel pipes and 
tubes 31.0 mm to 220 mm Including ball 
bearing steel tubes other than those cove¬ 
red by Appendix 3 Part-A 

524. Profiles : 

(a) SKF type I. 

(b) Platt Profile typo II. 

(c) Platt Profile type III. 

(d) Nose bar 33.2 mm ldng made from steel. 

(e) Nose bar dig : NOSKF/3023 profile. 

525. Quartz glass and products thertof. 

526 Relay, other than time delay relays of all cate¬ 
gories. 

527- Rupture Discs 

528. Selector switches, rotary switches, control swit¬ 
ches, centrifugal switches, wheel switches, single 
or ganged P.C.B. mounting push button 
switches. 


511. Nickel cadmium batteries and components, 
parts thereof. 

512. Non-ferrous alloys, ingots, castings and 
forgings other than those elsewhere specified. 

513. Non-liner field discharge resistors. 

514. Phosphor bronze sheets/strips. 

513. Phosphor bronze/Tambac brass wires thinner 
than 30 SWG 


529. Sensors/transducers. 

530. Servo Motors. 

531. Silicon wafers other than diffused wafers, 
Dices, and chips. 

532. Shock Pulse Meter. 

533. Metallurgical grade silicon 

534. Slip rings for use in rotating electrical machinery. 


516. Plastic extruded/moulded/fabricated components 
or products, 

517. Plate/Float' Glass. 


535. Soda lime glass shells for GLS lamps and tubular 
shells for flourescent tube lamps. 

536. Solar absorbers for solar energy equipment. 







Ml 1— —"s' s lj 


pr stt ttspto ■ nJirarTni 


201 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-1— Contd. 


537. Stainless steel fittings, pipes and tubes other 
than those covered by Appendix 3 Part-A 

538. Star washers and spring washers. 

539. Steel balls including stainless steel balls. 

540. Stopper heads and nozzles other than fire 
clay stopper heads and nozzles for integrated 
steel plants. 

541. Stranded wire, cables, cordage, ropes plaited 
bonds, slings and alloy iron and steel wire 
excluding insulated electric cables. 

542. Surgical rubber B°°ds. 

543. Synthetic srif-adhesive fastners including hook 
& loop and mushroom type. 

544. Test films for testing purposes l.e. SMPTE 
films and other standard films for 35 mm, 16 mm. 
8 mm super and 8 mm projectors and studio 
recording equipment. 

545. Thermocouples, thermometers including resis¬ 
tance elements and temperature recorders and 
other related items, except clinical thermometers. 

546. The following items for Automobile Manu¬ 
facturers : 

I. Mechanical Group 

(1) Timing B 1 ’ *s and Timing Pulleys. 

(2) Automatic Indexing Turret including 
rotating tool heads. 

(3) Flexible couplings for ball screws. 

(4) Telescopic cpiral protection covers'for 
ball screws. 

(5) Liners for guideway application in the 
form of shects/compounds. 

(6) Recirculating Roller pads for guideways 

(7) V-rings and V-Packings. 

(8) Precision face couplings. 

(9) Quick setting cement for foundation bolts. 

(10) Pneumatic clutches and brakes or combina¬ 
tion. 

(11) DU bushes of various sizes. 

(12) Feeding systems for presses and com¬ 
ponents thereof. 

(13) Ball transfers and tolerance rings. 

58 QI/85—14. 


II. Sub-Systems Group 

(14) Centralised automatic lubrication system. 

(15) Refrigeration type air-conditioning system 
for electrical cabinets. 

(16) Automatic tool changer. 

(17) Auto back gauge units. 

III. Tooling Group 

(18) Tool presetting units. 

IV. Hydraulic Group 

(19) High torque hydraulic motors. 

(20) Hydraulic accumulators. 

(21) Counter balancing and unloading hydraulic 
valves. 

V. Monitoring Systems Group 

(22) Laser measurement system. 

(23) Adaptive control systems for CNC 
machines. 

(24) Tool life and tool breakage monitoring 
systems, 

(25) Touch sensor probes. 

(26) Motion detectors and brake monitors. 

VI. Electricals Group 

(27) Controller for DC servomotors. 

(28) DC servomotors. 

(29) Controller for AC servomotors 

(30) AC servomotors. 

(31) DC motor for spindle drive. 

(32) AC variable speed motor for spindle 
drive. 

(33) Multi-core flat cables, shielded cables. 

(34) Sealed type limit switches an micro¬ 
switches. 

(35) Stepper motors. 

(36) High stability motor generating sets for 
CNC machine power supply. 

VH. Electronics Group 

(37) Feed back elements, synchro resolvers, 
linear scales with or without reading heads 
optical glass scales, infra-red transmitter 
receivers, tachogenerators, linear aDd 
rotary magnascalc. 

(38) Magnetic/optical tape readers. 



202 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-1— Contd. 


(39) CNC/Precision rotary tables. 

(40) Photo electric guards. 

(41) Piano electronic type overload safety and 
tonnage indicator. 

547. Timing Belt. 

548. Titanium and titanium alloy Pipes, tubes and 

castings. 

549. Tools, the following:— 

(1) Bevel gear cutting tools. 

(2) Carbide tipped circular/segmental saws and 
carbide burrs. 

(3) Circular Discs for saws. 

(4) Coated abrasive belts. 

(5) Cutting/forming tools other than those 
mentioned in Appendix 3 Part A 

(6) Diamond impregnated saws and segments. 

(7) Gear cutting tools all types, required for 
the manufacture of watches, clocks and 
time pieces. 

(8) Grinding wheels finer than grit 400, segment 
and other bonded abrasives, all types 
including honing/sharpening Btones. 

(9) Grooving and shaping cutters for pencil 
industry. 

(10) Hand tools other than those mentioned in 
Appendix 3 Part A 

(11) Hard metal tools other than those men¬ 
tioned in Appendix 3 Part-A 

(12) Leather shaving/Ski ving/Splitting/Clicking 
Knives. 

(13) Router cutters for engraving. 

(14) Saw blades and Gummer files required for 
cottonseed orushing/solvent extraction 
industry, 

(15) Shear blades required by glass Industry 

(16) Solid carbide cutting tools. 

(17) Stellite tips and tipped tools. 

(18) Thread rolling dies. 

(19) Tricone rock roller bits other than those 
mentioned in Appendix 3 Part-A 

(20) Torque wrenches and torque meter*. 

550. Type* for typewriter*. 

551. Type high numbering machines. 

^52. Vacuum Tube collectors/conccntratlng collec¬ 
tors for solar energy equipment. 

353. Vibration Detector. 


554. Welding electrodes. 

555. Wire eloth/sieve cloth, fineneu, above 200 and 
upto 400 mesh. 

556. Wooden pencil slats. 

557. Components of air-conditioning and refrige¬ 
ration equipments, the following:— 

(1) Expansion valves above 1.1/8* dia. 

(2) Low and high pressure out-outa. 

(3) Solenoid valves. 

(4) Shlit-off valves above 5/8' dia. 

(a) Rod type thermostats. 

(ft) Proportional type thermostat*. 

(c) Pneumatic thermostats. 

(d) Humidistat. 

(e) Modutrol thermostats. 

(5) Evaporation eliminators. 

(6) Float Switches. 

(7) Mixing Valvos. 

(8) Viation Eliminator. 

(9) Llquid-cum-moisture Indicator*. 

(10) Modutrol motor*. 

(11) Heat gas byepass valve and hot heat bygas 
bypass valve. 

558. Components of tractors and combine harvesters. 

559. Components of hearing aid*, the following i— 

(1) Transistor type BC1460 and their PNP 
complementnrle*. 

(2) Transistor type BC 109 B.P./B.G. 109 P. 

(3) Transiitor type B.O. 200. 

(4) Transistor type AC 125 (B 50—400) 

(5) Double Diode* IS 1011 S. 

(6) Integrated circult-UPC 12 G. 

(7) Electrolytic capacitors .1 mfd. to 100 mfd. 
(less than 11.5 ram in length) 

(8) Ceramic capacitor*. 

(9) Resistors of length less than 6 mm and power 
rating less than 0.25W. 

(10) Microphones for hearing aid* 

(11) Ear-phones for hearing aids. 

(12) PCB mountable transformer* 

(13) Printed circuit boards. 

(14) Low Voltage Audio Amplifier IC’s of 
type Nos. 552, 505. 



—wr i] 


<rrra- rr 3 tothk°t 


203 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART I —Contd. 


560 Components of time piece*, the following t— 
(/) Hair springs 

(H) Baiance staff 

(III) Balance hearing screw*. 

(fv) Pins (pins for balance and levers). 

561. All components, of machine tools, machinery, 
equipments, instrument and other Engineering 
items, (including consumer durables), covered 
under OGL excluding electronic components. 

362. Hair spring for clocks and Time-pieces. 

563. Plastic Gear for analogue Quartz clocks and 
time-pieces, 

364. Undercarriage parts of crawler tractors and 
other earthmoving machineries. 

563. Electronic items (other than those In Append x 
3 Part-A) 

(I) Cathode Ray tuhes other than those In 
Appendices 3 Part-A and 5 Part-A. 

(2) Connector*. 

(3) Drafting aids for Printed circuit board 

(4) EHT cables for T.V. deflection component* 
and flat/flat flexible cables other than those 
for T, V. antennas connections. 

(5) Colour T.V. Picture Tube having the fol¬ 
lowing specifications :— 

1. Size 51 Cm (20 inches) 

2. Neck diameter 29 mm 

3. Deflection angle 90°. 

4. Electrongun Precision-in-line, 

three gun system. 

5. Screen Black matrix/seg¬ 

mented Vertical 
Stripes 

6. Maximum EHT 25 kV 

II. Deflection Yoke (Typical Values) 

1. Horizontal Coil 1.9mH±5% 
inductance. 

2. Horizontal Coil 2.2 Ohms ±10% 
resistance. 

3. Vertical Coil 28.5mH ± 10% 

Inductance. OR 

UOmH ± 10% 

4. ^ Vertical Coil 14 Obms± 10% 

resistance. OR 

56 ohms ±10% 

(6) (/) Electrolytic Capacitors other than 

those mentioned in App. 3—Part A» 

(li) All type* of Plastiigfilro capacitor* 

(Iff) AH’typc* of Ceramic capacitor*. 

(T) Cry Board twitchei. 


(8) Level Metei/Level indicator/Flouroscent 
peak-level meter/Tuning Indicator/Batte¬ 
ry Meter/VU Meter with sensitivity bet- 
weeu 100 to 500 micro amperes and 
internal resistance between 600 to 
2000 ohms. 

( l ) Loud speakers (cone type) below 2J' 

(10) Lead Tabs for paddle Tabs. 

(11) Magnetic sound head. 

(12) Microphone cartridges 

(13) Paper cones for loudspeakers—all types 
including paper cones with or without rolls/ 
braiding. 

(14) Peizo Electric Elements. 

(15) Printed circuit boards other than those 
in Appendix 3 Part-A 

(16) Servo systems, thyristor controls, and 

NC/CNC systems for machine tool 
industry 

(17) RF transistors of the following types for 
TV Tuners ;— 

(a) 2SC 605, 2SC 606, 2SC 287A, 2SC 
288A; 

(ft) 2SC 1856, 2SC 1906, 2SC 717; 

( c ) 2SC 1393, 2SC 1394, 2SC 1395; 

(d) 2SC 3122/2SC 3123/2SC 3124; 

(e) KSC 1393A/KSC 1394A/KSC 1395A; 
(/) 2SC 1779, 2SC 1778, 2SC 1687; 

(g) 2SC 1779, 2SC 1778, 2SC 1687, 2SC 
1730; 

(ft) MTSH 34, MTH 6543, MMT 3904. 

(18) Switches, all types, other than those In 
Appendix 3 Part-A 

(19) Synchro* i 
23 O n 4b 
23 CD x 4b 
23 CT4b 

23 T x 4b 

(20) Tantalum capacitors other than those In 
App. 3—Part ‘A’. 

(21) Tape deck mechanism other tbafl those In 
Appendix 3 Part-A 

(22) Tone aim complete (excluding plck-ap a 
cartridges) with hydraulic cueing. 

(23) Thermistor (PTC and NTC Including *tart 
devices), varlster*. 

(24) Components of Video cassette (C-O). 

(25) Video magnetic tape in rolls, pan cakes 
jumbo rolls, all forms, excluding video 
cassette* 

(26) Wave traps and coupling, capacitor* for 
powerline carrier communication equip¬ 
ment 



204 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 11 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


(27) Phenolic/SRBP/Ceramic bases/substrate. 

(28) Conductive/resistive compositions. 

(29) Turned parts like spindle, BC pins. 

(30) Pressed parts like tags, wipers. 

(31) Casings either die cast, pressed moulded. 

(32) Special springs. 

(33) Moulded parts for multiple pots. 

(34) Sealing materials. 

(35) Resistive/conductive inks. 

(36) Contacts in various shapes including 
carbon and precision metals. 

(37) Contact carriers. 

(38) ‘O’ Rings. 

(39) Resistance wires of various specificiation 
other than those included in Appendix 
3 Part-A. 

(40) Formers for winding like insulated copper 
wires and phenolic. 

(4j) Ceramic bases. 

(42) Contacts of metals, carbons and combia- 
tion thereof. 

(43) Pressed components. 

(44) Tinned components. 

(45) Epoxy paints. 

(46) Epoxy thinner. 

^47) Epoxy hardner. 

(48) Polypropylene/Polyester film (plain/metal¬ 
lised). 


(39) Aluminium casings/cans for electrolytic capa¬ 
citors. 

(60) Integrated circuits excluding those specifically 
covered under App. 3A. 

(61) Silicon Diodes of types—Fast recovery, schotky, 
pindiode varicaps, microwave, temperature 
compensated, Zeners with voltages above 100 
volts switching diodes with switching time less 
than 300 nanosec or 600 reverse voltage. 

(62) Silicon Rectifiers of types—Avalanche, Fast- 
recovery with voltage rating above 1000 volts. 

(63) Thyristors with voltage rating above 1000 volts 
or invertor grade types with fast turn off time 
below 50 microsec. 

(64) Triaces and SCRs, of sensitive gate types with 
gate current less than 3 milliamps, or Gate 
controlled turn off types, or with voltage ratings 
between 8 KV to 20 KV. 

(65) Silicon Transistors with collector to emitter 
voltage above 100 volts, or cut off/Transition 
Frequency abdve 500 MHR, or matched pairs, 
or with switching time below 25 nanosec. for 
NPN and 100 nanosec for PNP, or Medium 
Power Transistors with Power rating above 50 
watts or High Power Transistors of Power 
rating above 125 watts. 

(66) Components for Hybrid micro-circuits, the 
following :— 

(/) Diodes Transistors and integrated circuits’ 
in 50T 2B packages or on leadlcss chip 
Carriers. 

(//) Chip resistors. 

(Hi) Chip capacitors. 

(67) Solder Plated brass strips upto 100mm width. 


(49) Copper beryllium formed products. 

(50) Copper wire/strips (Oxygen free types), 

(51) Graphite jigs. 

(52) "Larainations/strips of Mu-metal/Radio 
metal. 

(53) Litz wirc/Rayon Covered copper wire. 

(54) ‘KOVAR’ and alloys of Nickel-Iron/ 
cobalt in all forms. 

(55) Self adhesive tapes all types. 

(56) Ammonium-Di-Hydrogen Phosphate. 

(57) Rubber bungs/seals/Discs. 

(58) Silica quartz fillers. 


(68) Solid carbide and composite drills and Routers 
for P.C.B. manufacture. 

(69) Following components of colour T.V. sets 
production :— 

(a) Line output transformers/EHT Trans¬ 
formers for colour T.V. Receivers above 
36 ems and above 20 KV (with or without 
focus potentiometer). 

( b ) High voltage focus pot. 

(c) Internal degausing coil. 

(d) Laminance delay line. 

(e) Chromlnace delay line. 

(f) T.V. Picture Tube socket/CRT Socket. 

(g) SAW Filter. 


[wtI —st 1 ) 


'fTRiT ^ trw . amrarw 


205 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART-I— Contd. 


( h ) Ceramic Filter/Trap. 
(/) Fusible resistor, 

(J)(a)(l) Transistors 


2 

SC 

1098 

2 

SD 

381 

2 

SD 

382 

2 

SB 

536 

2 

SB 

537 

(li) Transdent 

Snpiesslon 

diodes of voltage 

greater than 

50 volts. 



(b) For General purpose ; 

Diodes with voltage greater than 100 volts, 
surge current rating greater than 20 Amps, 
ana rise time less than 800 nano seconds. 

(70) Resistive Plate. 

(71) Resistive Arrays. 

(72) Resistors (other than heating resistors) Poten¬ 
tiometers and switches. 

(73) H.V. Silicon Rectifiers of rating 8 RV to 

20 KV. 

(74) Computer Magnetic Tapes/Cassettes/Cart- 
ridge, 

(75) Magnetic Disk Packs/Cartridges. 

(76) Printer Ribbon. 

(77) Computer manuals and training material In 
the fo^m of pamphlets/microfische/microfUms. 

(78) Winchester Drive*. 

(79) Calculator clips. 

(80) Componcnts/Modules of electronic watches, 
the following :— 

(«) Complete electronic 

modules/electronic circuit 
blocks for electronic 
watches and clocks of all 
types. 

(6) Following components of 
electronic watches, clocks 
and time pieces (both for 
digital and analogue). 

(!) Large Scale inte¬ 
grated circuits/ 
devices/chips, all 
type*, for N u*° iu 
watches, clock* and 
time piece*. 

(il) Liquid crystal dis- j 
play. j 

(til) Quartz cryital. * | 

(/v) Stepper motor. J 


366. The following raw materials, components and 
consumables —made for electronic industry appli¬ 
cation—if imported by an Actual User (Indus¬ 
trial) holding a manufacturing licence/Registra- 
rion Certificate for electronic items s— 

(1) Audio Cassette Liner/Slip Sheet/silicon 
paper sheet. 

(2) Chemicals and allied items including moulding 
compounds and alloys appearing in Appendix 
3 Part-A. 

(3) EHT cable for TV deflection components. 

(4) Electric resistance (nickel-chromium based) 
wires, wire rods, rods and strips. 

(5) Glass preforms. 

(6) Gold preforms for semiconductor industry. 

\ 

(7) Gold boion dots. 

(8) Gold/Antimony discs. 

(9) Gold/silver flashed/ailoyed/plated contacts 
for piece-parts for relays and switches. 

(10) Heat sinks foi semiconductor industry. 

(11) High purity gold bonding wire for semi¬ 
conductor industry. 

(12) Lead acid storage batteries. 

(13) Low pitch phillip bead screws used in cassette 
industry. 

(14) Lubricating solveni/MCCP Fluid. 

(15) Magnetic Shield. 

(16) Manganese nickel strips gold plated. 

(17) Nickel and nickel based alloys and iron based 
super alloys, (including inconels, incoloy*. 
nimonics, hastalloys & udimets) in the form of 
ingots, blooms, billets, slabs, bars, round* 
rods, wires, plates, sheets & strips. 

(18) Pressure Pad. 

(19) PTFE/Teflon/Fluon/Teflon-FEP/Teflon-PFA/ 
Tefzel-PTFE Tapes and Sleeving. 

(20) FIFE Pigment/PTFE Stripping ink. 

(21) PVC Sleeves. 

(12) Ljcleniuin metal of purity 99,999% or above, 

(a 3) Scrap Tapes/Sleevrug ot PTFE/fefloa /Fluon/ 
Teflmi.FEP/Teflon-PFA/Tefzel-PTPE, 


For Seinl- 
Couductoi 
► Complex 
Limited (SCL) 
only. 

i 



206 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIS'! 8 PART-I— Contd. 


(24) Silicon/Silicone based varaishes/greaae/mois- 
ture resistants. 

(25) Threading taps 1.6 mm dia and above 

(26) Tin coated/plated copper wire including 
copper ply wire. 

567. Components of textile machinery other than jute 
and hemp 

(1) Card gauges. 

(2) Flat and round comber needles 

(3) Qarnei wile. 

(4) Punching card rolls for textile machinery 

(5) Cylinders for non-sinker plain web machine 
26 gauge and above. 


(6) Cylinders for sinker body machine of 26 
gauge and above. 

(7) Needles for hosiery/knitting machines 

(8) Components of hand operated flat bed 
knitting machines. 

(9) Wrapper cloth for decaying machines. 

(10) Mono filament carrier blankets for cloth 
printing for rotary flat bed screen printing 
machines. 

(11) Woollen felts for felt calendering machine w 
Shrinking range. 

(12) Component* of fully automatic chu*r 
feeding type Mow room machinery. 

(13) Component of high producilon curds witr. 
feeding chute auto leveller/auto can changes 

(14) The following items toi manulaciure >»< 
Revolving Flat Carding Engines lot cotton/ 
man-made fibre i- 

(0 Llcker-lr-wlre. and 

(II) All types of flexible meialllc earn 
clothing end tops. 


(15) Components of Draw Frame«/Speed 

Frames, the following :— 

(/) Hank Indicators/Shift Counters. 

(II) Top Rollers for drafting system. 

(Hi) High Drafting System for cotton/ 
man-made fibres. 

(iv) Helical fluted roller. 

{16) Components of Ring Frames, the following : 

(/) Jockey Pulleys. 

(II) High Drafting systems tor cotton/ 
man-made fibre Ring Frames Including 
components thereof. 

(III) Hank Indicators/Shift counters. 


(/»■) Spindle Inserts of dla 10 mm and above 
(v) Top Rollers for drafting system. 

(W) Rings for Ring frames and doubling 
frames and Ring travellers other than 
those required for cotton textile*. 

(17) Components of combers/Lap Former/ 
Ribbon Lap/Silver Lap, the following l— 

Hank Indicators/Shift Couriers. 

(18) Doup healds and healds for alr/watei 
jet looms and other shutlleless looms 

(19) Components of hand knitting machines. 
(20 1 Shuttle blocks (Wooden). 

(21) Card clothing for Woollcn/Worstod waste 

cards. 

568. Othci components ot textile machine!y not 
oovered by Appendix 3 Part-A (excluding 
components of machines appearing In App«n 
dix 1 Part-B). 

569. Any Item having another chemical name or 
synonym, bul of the same nature, as any of 
the item* covered by thi* List. The synonyms 
mentioned In this entry refer nniy to those of 
chemicals and allied item* 



[*TPT I—<jhf l] 


*rra *pt Tjapid. armuK^r 


207 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART l—Concld . 
IRON AND STEEL AND FERRO ALLOYS 


Carbon Steel Items 

570. All grade* of carbon steel wires not elsewhere specified, 

571. Profile Sections for engineers files and rasps. 

572. Automotive rim burs, flange bars and lock ring sections. 

573. Plates/sheets/strips/colls coated with lead or an alloy of 
tin and lead (Terac plate). 

574. Hardened and tempered High Carbon (carbon 0.6% and 
above) steel strips for other than saw blades/cuttiog tools. 

575. Railway whecls/tyres/axles/wheel seta. 

576. Wide flange beam and Tee Section. 

577. ARMCO Soft Iron Plates. 

578. Copper coated Cold Rolled Low Carbon Steel Strips for 
manufacture of Bundy Tubes. 

579 Ship Building quality plates conforming to Lloyds grades 

B/C/D/E. 

Cladded and composite steel 

580. Cladded/composite steels In any category/form/shape/ilze 
with iron content 50% or more by weight. 


Alloy Steal items la all grade* 

581. Alloy »teel wires In all grades other than stainless/heat 
relisting steel of sizes thinner than 0.46 mm dia (26 SWG) 
aot elsewhere specified. 

582. Stain! ess Treat resisting steel wires of size thinner than 0,31 
mm dia (30 SWG) but excluding wires In copper /tin coated 
condition. 

583. Sheet bars/rods excluding rounds of 10 ram dia and above/ 
hexagous/ociagons/flats/structural sections ot all grades of 
alloy itoels.—not elsewhere stated. 


584. Profile sections for engineers files and rasps. 

585. Sheets/strips/coils—hot rolled/cold rolled in all grades 
of alloy steel (excluding stainless/heat resisting/high speed 
steels) not elsewhere stated. 

586. (a) Cold rolled stainless steel strips In coils of width 5.00— 

22.40 mmxthicknes9 0.10—0.13 mm for razor blades. 

(b) Stainless/heat resisting steel strips/flats conforming 
to AISI 303 and 304 in width below 41 mm and in thiok- 
ness below 10 mm for manufacture of watch cases. 

(c) Stainless/heat resisting steel strips conforming to AISI 
304 and 316 in width below 51mm and In thickness 

below 0.4 mm for manufacture of pen nib*. 

(d) Stainless steel strips conforming to AISI 304 In thick¬ 
ness 0.233 to 0.314 mm and width 75mm max. for manu¬ 
facture of watch strap. 

587. Leaded free cutting steel wire rodsjfincluding specifications 
which contain both load and high sulphur in the same speci¬ 
fication). 

588. Leaded free cutting steel flats/hexagons/octagons/rounds/ 
rods (including specifictlons which contain both lead and 
high sulphur to the same specification). 


Ferro Alloys 

589. Ferro alloys in form other than powder form as under t 

(a) Fcrro-Sllico-Ziroconlum 

(b) Ferro Phosphorous 

(c) Ferro Manganese with carbon less than 0.1%, 

(d) Ferro Chrome with carbon loss than 0.03%. 

590. All Ferro Alloys in powder form excluding Ferro Tita¬ 
nium Powder. 



[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OFpNDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 6, LIST 8, PART II 

Item* allowed for Import by Actual User* (Industrial) lubjr^ t to Actul Usar condition. and Export Ho uses (Trading Houses 
against REP/Addltional licences as par policy for sale to eligible Actual Uteri (Induttrlal) tubject lo Actual Uier Conlltloa i - 

1. Acetic Acid. 

2. Acetic Anhydride. 

3. Acrylic moulding powder. 

4. Alloy steels in any form/shape/section. 

5. Ammonium persulphate and potassium persulphate. 

6. Aluminium jlyclnate. 

7. Aluminium wlre/stnps of purity 99.99%. 

8. Bating Material. 

9. Base paper for waxing/irnprcgnating/coating—including sensitising base paper. 

10. 4 [4 Benzidine, 2:2 disulphonlc acid. 

11. Betahydroxy Naphthoic acid (Bon add). 

12. Bisphenol—A. 

13. Black Centered Board. 

14. Bloachlng powder and hypo Chlorites. 

15. C. Acid (2-chlorO'5-to1udine-4-$ulphonlc Acid) and its salts. 

16. Carbon Paper. 

17. Caustic soda. 

18 Chicago Acid/Salt. 

19. corkwood, cork waste and cork dust and cork powder of 200 mesh. 

20. Components of DC micro motori/stepper motors/servo motor*/ 

AC synchronous motors (including brush and commertator assembly) of rating upto 13.5 Volts and 20 watt*. 

21. Components of relays connector* and switcho* 

22. Crepe Paper. 

23. Drawing Paper. 

24. Drugs/Drug Intermediate*. 

25. Dye intermediates 

26. Ethyl glyool 

27. Eucalyptus gum chips. 

28. Filter A Self rcaecuer for mines. 

29. Flourescent Pigments. 

30. Flint buttons excluding those appearing in App, 2 1‘jrt H, 

31. Q. Salt. 

32. Gamma acid/salt, 

33. Geranium oil. 

34. Glas* capillary tubing for thermometer*. 

35. Glasslne/grcase proof/parchment paper excluding vegetable parchment aDd glasslne/grease proof pajvrr less iban 30 gm* 

36. Glues consisting of a mixture of rubber organic solvents, filler*, vulcanising agent* and resins 

37. Graphic Art Films. 

38. H. Acid/Salt. 

39. High grade molybdenum ore, Molybdenum rnetai Including scrap, 

Molybdic oxide. Molybdenum oxide. Molybdenum powder. 

40. Iodine. 

41. Ivory unmanufactured. 


208 



[tTFTi—<T¥ 1] 


*rrT5T vr wra: 4)«mrr«r 


209 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART II —Coma. 

42. lOMctiddet, pettiddei ted weediddte. 

43. L. Base (Aminodisl). 

44. Ltthopoee 

43. Mao-made fibiwvtroi (Other than these In Part I and Ill.) 

46. Mercury/mercury ammontated. 

47. Methyl Bromide. 

48 Methyl chlorosilanet such as ^ — 

(/) Dimethyl dlchlorosUsrte 
(11) Methyl trlohlorosllane 

(1/1) Trimethyl cblorosllane. 

(Iv) Octamethyl oycle tetralloxanes. 

(») Hoxamethyl dlsiloxane. 

49. M.irowvi component* of all typos, 

30. Napthalene crude 
51. Natural essential oils 

32. Nitric acid 

33. Non-cement asbestos products other than asbestos jointing sheet. 

34. Non-Woven filter media, dust catcher bags and non-woven filter panels. 

35. Partchloro boecote arid 

36. Para ohloro toluene. 

87, Par* tertiary batyl phenol 
58 Phenol. 

59. Phosphorous add. 

60. Phosphoric add Mb*< than iwtl mm 1*1 grad* . 

61. Pltoll. 

62. Plala/metaUlxed ooadsasor u**a« paper. 

63. PtaJa/matalUicd cspsdtor IU»> 1 < papm 

64. plala/tnsislUted Kraft/Tlssus pap*?. 

65 Polycarbonate (Thermoplastic raw materials 

66. Polycarbonate moulding powder/granulet. 

67. Polypropylene. 

68. Potassium Chlorate. 

69. Potassium ferro-qyanlde. 

70. Pressed/punched metal parts and die-cast parts for Tape Dock Mechanism 

71. Procaine Hydrochloride. 

72. PTFfct Pabrlc/felt/threads. 

73. PVC Resins. 

74. Raw oashewnun. 

73. Raw wool/Grcasy wool,'scoured woo) (not carded ot comoed)/angora goat hah (mohair). 

76 Shellac/Seed lac. 

77. Soda Ash. 

78. Solvable. 

79. Stainless/heat resisting steel wires of size thinner than 30 SWG In copper/tin coated condition. 

80. Styrene/Styreno Mononjei 

81. Sucdnyl Succinate. 

82. 20U oil (rested tulphor, Including oryttex/ioioluble telpher. 



210 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 6 LIST 8 PART II —Coneld. 

83. Synthetic rubber viz. Butyl rubber, Silicon rubber, Neopreoe/chloroprena, Hypalon, Vlton, Bromobutyl, Chlorobutyl, PTFB tod 
E.P.D.M. 

84. Synthetic Yellow Iron Oxide. 

85 Tartaric acid 

86. Tin foil. 

87. T. P. A. 

88 Tracing paper. 

89. Trichloromonofluoro—methane (fluorocarbon refrigenant H), 

Dichlorodifluoro—methane (fluorocarbon refrigerant-12). 

Dichloromonofluoro—methane (flurocarbon refrigenant-21). 

Mono chlorodifluro—methane (flurocarbon refrigerant-22), and mixtures thereof. 

90. Tungsten Disc/Tungsten Contact* 

91. Tungsten salts. 

92. Vitamin P. (Rutin). 

93. Zinc wire of 99.99% purity 


Appendix 6, Lift 8, Part III 

Items allowed for Import by Actual Users, and others for stock and sale :— 

1. Aluminium scrap/Dross. 

2. Brass scrap/Ash/Dross 

3. Casein based glazings and dressings for leather flnlahlng. 

4. Copper scrap/copper mill scab. 

5. Tin dross/Ash/Residuei and Tin alloy/Resldues. 

6. Zinc scrap/Zlnc alloy scrap/Ash/Dross. 

7. Nickel Silver Scrap (Oerman Silver Scrap). 

8. Pickled hldos, skins where the value of hides and skins is more than that of wool/hair thereon. 

9. Wattle Bark for tanning leather. 

10. Wattle Extract. 

11. Pickled bides, skins, pelts, splits and parts thereof 

12. Hides and skins, raw or salted where the value ol hides and skins is more than that of wool/hair thereon. 

13. Wet Blue Chrome tanned crust and finished leather including splits & sides. 

14. Floppy Disketle/media. 

15. Quobracho extract, chestnut extract and modified eucalyptur extract (Myrtan). 

16. Outn Arsblo. 

17. Vlscoss Blaraeni yarn below MM1 dsates 

18. Cupramroonlum rillainem year and Acetate Filament Yarn (first quality) 

19. Ceramic fibre. 

20. Carbon fibre. 

21. Polyacetal rasla 

22. Polymethyl methacrylate plastic ophthalmic blanks 

23. Poly-totrafluoroethyloos rssla. 

24. Poly carboaalo resin. 

25. Seaham wood/tlmher logs. 




['(TFT I—WX l] 


mm ; 3mTWT»r 


211 


APPENDIX 6, LIST 8, PART-III— Concld. 


26. Styrene acrylic nitrile resin. 

27 Polyurethane resin. 

28. Glass shells fot TV picture tubes. 

29. Chrome metal. 

30. Leather finishing auxiliaries—fillers, peoetrators and slip agenu 

31. Manganese metal. 

32. Magnesium metal 

13. Silver pastc/silver powder suspension. 

34. Threaded heelnails Tor leather. 

35. vanadium metal. 

36. Thread locker. 

37. Adhesive sealants. 

38. Retaining Compound. 

J9. Flange Sealants. 

so. Pipe Sealants. 

41. Iffstant adhesive. 

42. Multi-cable transit (cable/pipe sealing system). 

43. Tungsten metal. 

44. Inomar Rosin. 

43. Uo Propyl antipyrine. 

46. (a) PMMA +Silicon (Poly-Methyl Methacrylate +- Silicon) for making Oai poimcable contact lenaee. 

(6) HEMA or Poly Hema (Poly 2 Hydroxy Ethyl Methacrylate) for making *oft contact lenae*. 

Notes : (1) It Is clarified that entries in this List (Part I. Pari It and Part III) allow only those items and their specifications, size*. 

types, varieties, composition-,, eatoeonwi e tc, are covered under Open General Licence for Actual Users (Industrial) 
vide items I and 2 of Appendix 6 Ji.c. the items or their specifications etc. which do not appear In Appendices 2 lo 3 and 
8. Including those having another Chemical Name or synonym, but of the same nature, as any of the Items covered In (here 
Appendices, read with the clarifications contained In Chapter II of this Book. 

(2) Impart of religious books shall not be allowed as waste paper under entry No. 261 Part I above. 

(3) Entry N . 118 In Part I above does not apply to dye intermediates. Their import will be regulated In the normal 
manner, t.e„ such dye intermediates as Ere not individually mentioned, by their own names, in this Append!* shall 
be regulated by the entries tr. Appendix 3 Part-A or 5 Part-A, as the case may be, by eligible Actual Users 
(Induitrlal) 



212 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 
APPENDIX 6 —Concld. 

List 9 

Lht or Ophthalmic Equlpment/lnstniroent 

1. Projection magnifier for contact lens inspection verification. 

X Contact lense gauge microscope (for measurement of curvature of contact lenses) 

3, Lensometer (contact lenses holder). 

4, Stereo 200 m microscope for Inspection of contact lense*. 

9. Eye sight testing machine (automatic). 

(S. Softometcr for measurement of the base curve of soft contact lenses, 
f. Automatic refractometer. 

8. Complete refraction unit with phropter (sight tester). 

9. Automatic visual field soreener. 

10. VLscoscope. 

U. Tonometer of tension for recording intraoccular pressure (tension). 

12. Keratometer (ophthalmometer). 

13. Low visual aids set (with telescopic glasses for checking the poor sight). 

14. Halogen slit lamp microscope with applantation and photographic capability. 

13. Halogen ophthalmoscope. 

1)6. Streak retinoscopc. 

17. Spot retinoscopc. 

18. Indirect monocular ophthalmoscope. 

19. Indirect Binocular ophthalmoscope. 

20. Lens thickness measure gauge (Caliper). 

21. Sagometers. 

22. Lensometer (Foctaeter) 

23. Lens analyser. 

24. Projecto-markcl. 

23. Vitrectomy machine. 

26. Membrane pealer. 

27 Argon laser, 

28. Krypton laser. 

29. Xenon arc photocoagulator. 

30. Fluorseeln angiography equipment mcludlng’fundus camera. 

31. Ultra sound scaner. 

32. Intraoccular lenses. 

33. Low visual aids fot handicapped (acrylic plastic lenses for cataract people (cheap). 



'H't'fl TT 7TW : aWTETTW 


213 


[<mil— 1 ] 


APPENDIX 7 

OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO. 4 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA, MINISTRY OF 
COMMERCE—OPEN GENERAL LICENCE 
NO, 4/85 dt. 12th April, 1985. 

In excercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of 
the Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 
1947), the Central Government gives general per¬ 
mission for importation of the goods specified below 
from any country in the world, except the Union of 
South Africa and South-West Africa :— 

(1) Re-import of items after repairs abroad, 
subject to the satisfaction of the Customs 
authority that the item re-imported is the 
same which was sent abroad for repairs; 

(2) Free gift of trade catalogues and circulars 
upto a value of Rs. 2,000; 

(3) Blue prints and drawings (including micro¬ 
films) relating to machinery and plant sites, 
work and building, research data, supplied 
free 9f charge and having no commercial 
value; 

(4) Bonafide technical and trade samples supplied 
free of charge not exceeding Rs. 20,000 in 
c.i.f. value, in one consignment, excepting 
vegetable seeds, bees, tea and new drugs; 

(3) Bonafide advertising material suplied free of 
charge not exceeding Rs. 2,000 in c.i.f. value, 
in one consignment; 

(6) Goods supplied free of charge by foreign 
suppliers or imported against an insurance 
(marine) or marinc-cum-erection insurance 
claim settled by an Insurance Company, 
in replacement of the goods previously 
ported but found defective or otherwise 
flt/unsuitable for use or lost/damaged after 
port, provided that t 

i 

) the shipment of replacement goods Is 
made within 24 months from the date of 
clearance of the previously imported 
goods through the Customs or within the 
guarantee period in the case of machines 
or parts thereof, where such period is 
more than 24 months; 

) No remittance shall be allowed, except 
for payment of insurance and freight 
charges where the replacement of goods 
by the foreign suppliers ii subject to the 
payment of insurance and/or freight by 
the Importer and documentary evidence 
to this effect is produced at the time of 
making the remittance i 


(c) the following dccouments shall be pro¬ 
duced to the satisfaction of the customs 
authorities, at the time of clearance of 
the replacement goods : — 

(i) original letter from the foreign sup¬ 
plier as evidence of goods being 
supplied free of cost, in the case of 
free replacement; 

(ii) a survey certificate issued by the 
Lloyds Agents or other authorised 
insurance surveyors or in the case 
of machine or parts thereof, a certi¬ 
ficate from a professional 
independent Chartered Engineer, 
or Chief Executive in the case of 
Government Departments and pub¬ 
lic sector undertakings, to the effect 

that goods previously Imported were 
actually received in defective condi¬ 
tion and required replacement; 

(iU) evidence showing the period of 
guarantee given by the foreign manu¬ 
facturers or consignors in the case 
of machines or parts thereof, where 
shipment takes place after the period 
of 24 months stipulated in sub¬ 
clause (a) above; 

(fv) evidence of settlement of claim by the 
Insurance company, in the case of 
replacement import involving fresh 
remittances. This will, however, not 
be necessary In the case of Govern¬ 
ment Departments, provided foreign 
exchange has been released by the 
Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Economic Affairs)/Administrative 
Ministry to cover the amount to be 
remitted. Replacement imports will 
be allowed upto the valuo of tho 
claim settled by the insurance com- 
any with no increase in quantity) 
ut an Increase upto ton percent of 
this b mount may be allowed owing 
to the Increase in the value of tho 
machinery to be Imported in 
replacement 

(7) Drugs and medicines supplied free of charge 
for clinical trials with the prior written ap¬ 
proval of the Drugs Controller of India, Now 
Delhi and subject to any conditions laid down 
by him. The approval of the Drugs Controller 
shall be produced to the satisfaction of 
the customs authorities at the time of clear¬ 
ance; 



214 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 7— Concld. 


(8) Borutfide trade samples of drugs and medici¬ 
nes supplied free of charge to the sole agents in 
India of the foreign suppliers, not exceeding 
Rs. 10,000 in c.I.f. value in one consignment 
on the written recommendation of the Drugs 
Controller of India, New Delhi to be produced 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities 
at the time of clearance | 

(9) Human vaccines and sera supplied free o( 
charge or against payment, on the written 
recommendation of the Drugs Controller of 
India, New Dot hi to be produced to the satis¬ 
faction of the customs authorities at the time 
of clearance j 

(10) Animal including poultry vaccines, supplied 
free of charge or against payment, on the 
specific recommendation of the Animal 
Husbandry Commissioner to the Govern¬ 
ment of India, New Delhi, to be produced 
to the satisfaction of the customs authorities 
at the time of clearance; 

(11) Technical and trade samples of the Insecti¬ 
cides (including pesticides and weedicides), 
supplied free of charge, on the basis of the 
registration issued by the Registration 

> Committee set up under the Insecticides Act 
1968 and the quantity specified by the Com¬ 
mittee, in respect of items included in the 
Schedule to the Insecticides Act, 1968, and 
on the written approval of the Plant Protection 
Advisor to the Government of India in res* 
peel of items not included in the Schedule to 


ihc said Act. to be produced to the satis¬ 
faction of the customs authorities at the time 
of clearance! 

(12) In respect ol items covered by SI Not. (6) 
to (10) above, where the items are supplieo 
free of charge, imports of the permissible 
material shall not be allowed in consumer or 
retail packing and the consignment shall be 
clearly marked “sample not for sale" 

(13) Trade catalogues and circulars, blue prints 
and drawings, and technical or trade samples 
imported under this licence are for the use of 
the importers themselves and shall not be 
sold, or transferred otherwise; 

(14) This licence. Is without prejudice to the appli* 
cation to any goods, of any other prohibition 
or regulation affecting the import that may be 
in force al the time when such good* are 
imported, 

(15) THe licence does not confer any immunity, 
exemption or relaxation at any time from 
an obligation or compliance with any require¬ 
ment to which the Actual Users (Industrial) 
may be subject to under other laws or 
regulations. The importers should Comply 
with the provisions of all other laws appli¬ 
cable to them; and 

(16) This licence is in supersession of Open 
General Licence No. 4/84 published vide 
Import Trade Control Order No. 5/84 
dated the 12tb April, 1984. 



[WFT I -W¥ 1] 


*TTOT TT (I4W 


215 


APPENDIX 8 

SCIENTIFIC AND ME (BERING INSTRUMENTS 


PART ‘A’ 





ITC R.2 

CCCN 


ITC R.2 

CCCN 



Code 

Code 


Code 

Code 

08) 

Micro Ache reader. 

NSC 

NSC 

I (com restricted for Import i 



09) 

All types of m(crometers other than 
height micrometers. 

874.2103 

90.16 

(1) Spring caliper and divider! . 

874.2103 

90.16 


Counting chambers and Haoma- 


(2) Surface plate/Angie plate 

NSC 

NSC 

(20) 

872.0204 

90.25 

cytometers. 

(3) Plunger typo dial Indicators, dial 



(21) 




" Instruments and lever typo dial 



Go-No-Go plain and screw gauges. 

874.21 

90.16 

Indicator of accuracy 0.01 mm, or 
less accurate 

764.91 

90.16 

(22) 

Vernier depth gauges. 

874.3009 

90.16 

(4) Epidiascope, upto magnification 



(23) 

Vernier height gauges. 

874.2109 

90.16 

X-100 . 

881.31 

90.09 

(24) 

Cylinder bore gauges. 

874.2109 

90.16 

(3) Wheatstone Bridge, Kelvin Bridge, 



(25) 

Pneumatic gauges and setting 



Capacitance Bridge, RLC Bridge 




masters. 

874.2109 

90.16 

with accuracy 1 and less accurate 

NSC 

90.28 



874.3009 


(6) Clinical thermomotors. 

874.5403 

90.23 


PART ‘B' 



(7) Domestic water meters. 

873.1002 

90.26 




(8) House service meters. 

873.1003 

90.26 

Items permissible for Import : 



(9) Hydrometers. 

(10) Laboratory balances (physical/ 

874.5402 

90.23 

0) 

(2) 

Mechanical comparators. 

Slip gauges. 

NSC 

874.2107 

90.16 

90.16 

chemical) to read upto 0.05 gms. 

874.5101 

90.13 

(3) 

Feeler gauges. 

874.2109 

90.16 

(11) Measuring Instruments (electrical) 



(4) 

Tension gauges 4—24 gms. 

874.53 

90.22 

of accuracy ±1 % and leas accurate. 

874.8 

90.28 

(5) 

Hand tachometers 0—35,000 RPM. 

873.2001 

90.27 

(12) Binoculars costing loss than Rs. 



(6) 

Centre distance gauge. 

874.2109 

90.16 

1000/- each or not having any of the 
following characteristics l — 

871.0101 

90.03 

(7) 

Floating oarriage diameter mea¬ 
suring machine. 

874.2) 

90.16 

(0 Magnification more than T. 



(8) 

Bevel protector/Combinatlon sets. 

NSC 

NSC 

00 Minimum Objective glass die 







of 30 mm. 



(9) 

Barometers. 

874.5401 

90.23 

((H) Sealed Types. 



00) 

Flame photometers 

874.4021 

90.25/. 23 

(13) Laboratory ovens. Incubators and 



(ID 

Flame Scanners for boilers. 



autoclaves and bath therm os ta lie 



02) 

Gas analysers (IR types, heat con¬ 



stills. 

741.3101/ 3102 83.11 


ducting and paramagnetic types 




741.2201 & 84.14 & 


and trace gas analysers). 

874,4001 

90.25 


721.9702 

84.28 

(13) 

Laboratory microscope (monocular/ 



(14) Vernier calipers other than Elect' 




Cinocular) upto x 500 excluding 



tonic types .... 

874.2103 

90.16 


research microscope. 

871.03/04 

90.11/ 







90.12 

(13) Bulkmeters or flowmeters 

874.3001 

A 90.24 






874.3009 

90.24 

(14) 

Hygrometer. 

874.5409 

90.23 

(CCCN 

(Id) Strata Indicators 

874.53 

90.22 




code for 
non-ele¬ 

(17) Micro film reader. 

NSC 

90.09 




ctrical) 




APPENDIX 8- -concld. 




rrcR -2 

Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(15) 

Galvanometers with measuring 
accuracy ±1 % and less. 

874.8919 

90.28 

(16) 

(/) Go-No-Go serration gauge set 
(//) Go-No-Go spline Gauge set 

874.2109 

90.16 

(17) 

Soli and cement testing Instruments 

NSC 

90.25 

(18) 

Tachographs. 

NSC 

90.28 
(Codo for 
electrical) 

(19) 

Ultrasonic devices including ultra¬ 
sonic flaw detectors. 

874.8 

90.28 

(10) 

U-shaped leather thickness mea¬ 
suring gauges having at least count 
of 0.01 mm. 

874.2109 

90.16 

(21) 

Draw Down Applicator. 

NSC 

90.20 

(22) 

t-lastometer. 

874.5301 

90.22 

( 23 ) 

Abrasion Tester for sole leather. 

874.5309 

90.22 

(24) Dial calipers, digit and digital 
calipers, special purpose calipers 
and long size calipers. 



(25) 

Instruments required for the Engi¬ 
neering Industry, the following 
(1) Height micromotor 

874.2103 

90.16 


(2) Gauge for non-destructive 
measurement of plating thick¬ 
ness (Magnet gauge, Parmas- 
cope). 

874.2109 

90.16 




rrcR-2 

Code 

CCCN 

Code 


(4) Electronic slip comparator used 
for calibration of slips/gauge 
blocks in standard room 

NSC 

90.16/ 

90.28 


(5) Small spring lead testing 
machine upto 10 kgs. with least 
count of 5 grams. 

NSC 

90.22 


(6) Melting flow Index measuring 
instruments for plastics. 

874.3009 

90.44 

(26) 

Civil Engineering Instruments, the 
following 




(1) Inclinometers. 

874.11 

90.14 


(2) Extensometers. 

NSC 

90.22 

(27) 

Pressure, vacuum and level gauges/ 
indicators. 

874.3002 A 
874.3005 

90,24 

(28) 

API (American Petroleum Insti¬ 
tute) plug and ring gauges. 

874-2105/ 

06 

90.16 

(29) 

Electronic gauges and electronic 
probes. 

873.83 

90.28 


Noras 

1. The 1TC R.2 and CCCN Code numbers have boon 
assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 
filled by the Importer and on licences whenever 
Issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs 
authorities for classification for tarifF purposes. 

4. The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 
will, however, continue to be as per description 

and not 


(3) Visual inspection instruments 0 f (ho items given In this Appendix 

used In industry to inspect according to the Code numbers assigned 

inaccessible places (Fibrescope. 

Endoracopes, Introscopes). NSC 90.13 5. NSC denotes "Not Separately Classified". 



[wrl— 1 ] 


^ Trim: tom i t*t 


217 


APPENDIX 9 

LIST OF MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT, THE MANUFACTURERS OF WHICH ARE ELIGIBLE 

TO IMPORT SPARES FOR AFTER-SALES SERVICE 




ITC R.2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

(1) 

Pumps and Compressors. 

742 & 743 

84.10 

84.11 

(2) 

Industrial machinery. 

71 to 77 

NSC 

(3) 

Machine Tools. 

736, 1 

695.31 to 
695.43 1 

728.11 I 

728.12 J 

84.45 
84 .48 

r 

i 

(4) 

Automobiles. 

781, 782 & 
783 

87.01 

02/03 

(3) 

Diesel Engines. 

713.21, 84.06 

.22, .32 

(6) 

Agricultural machinery (Tractors, 
Power Tillers and Combined Har¬ 
vesters). 

721.1, 

721.21 to 
721.23 4 
722 

84.24/ 

84.25/ 

87.01 

(7) 

Auto ancillary. 

784. 785.39 

NSC 

(8) 

Gas plant and Air Separation plant. 

741.1, 

.2 

.3 

84.'it 
84.17 



.6 


(9) 

Pollution Control equipment. 

743.6 

84.18 

(10) 

Photo-copying machine. 

751.8200 

90.10 

(11) 

Earth-moving machinery. 

723.4/. 9 

S4.23 

(12) 

Process Control instruments. 

874.8 
(Electrical 
or Elect¬ 
ronic) 

NSC 

03) 

Medical lostrumonts/equlpmcnt. 

872 

90.17 

.18 

(14) 

Scientific A Laboratory Instru¬ 
ments. 

741.6, 871 
872, 873, 

874 

84.17 

90.11 

90.12 


90.14 

.13 

-16 

.21 

.22 

.23 

.24 

.25 

.26 

.27 

.24 

.29 


ITC R.2 CCCN 

Coda Code 

(13) Industrial fhmaces. 741.31 83.11 

(16) Industrial/Power Boilers. 711.1 84.0 

(17) Professional Electronic equipment. 751,2101 NSC 


752.1 to 

752.3 
761 
762, 

763.8 

764.3 

764.8 
874,81 

.82 

.83 


(18) Material Handling equipment. 744 87.07 

84.22 

(19) Turbines and Altemators/Gene- 
rators of capacity 60 MW and 

above. 716,718 85.01 

84.07 

.08 

i.20) Steam Turbines. 712.6011 84.05 

<21 > Hydroturbines. 718.81 84.07 

' 22 ) Turbogenorators/Hydrogeneratom. 716.2309 84.07 

23) Power transformers, above 50 MVA 

rating. 771.1 85.01 


(24) Electric motors above 450 HP 

(375 KW) rating. 716.1102/ ~| 85.01 

.2104/ I 
.2108 f 
716.2115 J 

(25) Electric welding equipment. 737.32 85.11 

Notts 

1. The ITC R.2 and COCN Code numbers have 
been assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the BUts of Entry 
filed by the importer and on licences whenever 
issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs 
authorities for classification for tariff purposes. 

4. The Interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 
will, however, continue to be as per description 
of the Items given In this Appendix and not 
according to the Code numbers assigned. 

3. NSC denotea "Not Separately Classified.’’ 


58 01/85—15, 



218 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 10 

LIST OF EQUIPMENT/ MACHINERY ALLOWED AS SPARES ON A RESTRICTED BASIS 




1TC R.2 

CCCN 



Code 

Code 

(]) 

Compressors, 

743.1001 

84 IJ 

(2) 

Pumps (all typos). 

742 

84 10 

(V 

Complete gear boxes (as distin¬ 




guished from individual gears). 

749.3002 

84.63 

(4) 

Complete engines. 

713.8 

84,06 

(5) 

Transformers. 

771.1 

85.01 

(6) 

Alternators/generators. 

716 

85.01 

(?) 

Out boaid motors above 10 H.P. 

713.3100 

84.06 

(8) 

Complete Instruments other than 




those appearing In Appendices 2 

Part B, 3 Part A and 8. N.A. N.A. 




/IV R.2 

CCCN 



Code 

Code 

(9) 

Circuit breakers. 

772.1 

85.19 

(10) 

Turbines and S team turbines. 

712.6011 

84.05 


Note* 

1. The ITC-R.2 and CCCN Code numbers have 
been assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 
died by the Importer and on licences whenever 
Issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs 
authorities for classification for tariff purpose*. 

4. The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 
will, however, continue to be as per description 
of the items given in this Appendix and not 
according to the Code numbers assigned. 



ur^T tt Tnrnw: <jmT£rrc«r 


219 


[tTETI—«TT 1] 


APPENDIX 11 

LIST OF SPORTS GOODS/ EQUIPMENT 

ITC R.2 CCCN /re R.2 CCCN 

Code Code Code Code 



I. ARCHERY 

- 


( 1 ) 

Bows. 

894,7229 

97.06 

(2) 

Arrows. 

894.7229 

97.06 


I). ATHLETICS 



( 1 ) 

Jevclines. 

894.7231 

97.06 

(2) 

Fibre aiass Poles. 

894.7231 

97.06 

(3) 

Wind Gauges. 

874,3 

90.24 


III. BASKETBALL 



( 1 ) 

Fibre Glass Back Board -upright 




mechanically operated. 

894.7229 

97.06 


IV. BADMINTON 



(D 

Badminton Courts (Plastics). 

NSC 

97.06 

(2) 

Nylon Shuttle Cocks. 

894.7202 

97.06 


V. CYO-oiv. 



(D 

Race Cycles. 

785.2001 

87.10 

(2) 

Tobulars. 

NSC 

97.06 


VI. GOLF 



(0 

Golf Balls. 

894.7211 

97.06 

(2) 

Golf Sets 

894.7229 

97.06 


VII. GYMNASTICS 



( 1 ) 

Tranpoline, 

894,7231 

97.06 

(2) 

Crash Mattressess. 

894.7231 

97.06 


VIII. HOCKEY 



0> 

Hockey Balls for Astro Turf. 

894.7212 

97.06 


IX, WRESTLING 

(1) Wrcsiling Males. 894,7231 97.06 

X. TABLE TENNIS 

(1) Table Tennis Balls. 894.2409 97.04 

XI. SQUASH 

(I) Squash Balls. 894.7229 97.06 

XII. SYNTHETIC SURFACES 

(1) Synthetic Turf, Synthetic Track 

and other synthetic surfaces. NSC 97.06 

XIII. BILLIARDS 

(I) Billiard cloth, rubber cushions foi 

billiard tables, bllllard/snooker balls 
and billiard chalks. 894.2409 97.04 

893.2311 98.03 

Notes i—- 

1. The ITC R.2 and CCCN Code numbers have 
been assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry 
died by the Importer and on licences whenever 
issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs 
authorities for classification for tariff purposes. 

4. The Interpretation of the Import-Export Policy 
will, however, continue to bo as per description of 
the items given in this Appendix and not according 
to the Code numbers assigned. 

3. NSC denotes "Not Separately Classified 



[Part I—Sec. 1] 


220 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX 12 

LIST OF SELECT EXPORT PRODUCTS ELIGIBLE FOR THE FACILITY OF PARA 205 


OP IMPORT—EXPORT 


SI. 

Name of the item 

Group/ 

No. 


Sub- 



Group as 
mentioned 



in 



Appendix 

17 of the 

Import 

Policy 


1 2 3 


1. Steel Forgings A.l 

2. Ferrous Manufactures, vl? : 

(1) C.I. Castings A.7 

(2) Manhole Covers A.7 

(3) Water and Sanitary Castings A.7 

(4) Spun Pipes A.7 

(5) Automobile Castings A.7 

3. Railway Track Material A.7 

4. Industrial Fasteners A.7(lv) 

3. Alrconditioning and Refrigeration equipment. A.2I. 

6. Power Equipment, Line Rotating Electrical 

Equipment, Transformers, Switch gear, Con¬ 
trol gear. Rectifiers A. 22 

7. Electric Fans A.27 

8. Machine Tools A.46 

9. Hand Tools and Cutting Tools A.51 

10. Dioscl Engines A.36 

11. Pumps and Comptessors A. 56 

12. Tea Machinery A.64 

13. Weighing Equipment and Weighing Machine A.64 

14. Water Treatment Plant. A,64 

13. Coal Handling Plant. A.64 

16. Ash Handling Plant, A.64 

17. Industrial Boilers A.64 

18. Pharmaceutical Machinery and Chemical 

Machinery A.64 

19. Packaging Machinery A.64 

20. Rice Mill Machinery A .64 

21. Automobiles and Automobile Ancillaries A 70 

22. Railway Coaches, Wagons and Tram Can A.73 

23. Blcylces and Paris A.82 

24. Transmission Line Towers A.90 


POLICY, 1985—88 


i a 

3 

23. Domestic Sewing Machines 

A.94 

26. Watches, Clocks and Timepieces 

A.100 

27. Sclenfificjnstruments 

A.102 

28. Steel Furniture 

A.102 

29. Tooth Paste 

8.20.4 

30. Scouring Powder 

B.20.7 

31. Perfumery Compounds and Atiars 

B.20.8 

32. Hair Oils Perfumed 

B.20.9 

33. Plastic Emulsions, Paints and Chemicals 

B 31 

34. Nitro Cellulose Lacquers 

B.32 

35. Ceramic Products 

B.53/54 

36. Clinical Thermometers 

B.57.1 

37. Oprhalmic Fused Blanks 

B.57.8 

38. Rubber Aprons and Coals 

B.70.4 

39. Fire Fighting Hoses 

B.70.5 

40. Rubber and Canvas Footwear 

B.70.7 

41. Surgical and Medical Appliances of Rubber* 

B.70.8 

42. Closed Shoes with Leather Uppers 

D.2.1(0(J) 

43 Light categories of Travel and other Leather 


goods like Attache cases, Brief cases, Ladies 
hand bap, Wallets, Leather garments. Purses, 
Leather hand gloves other than industrial 
Leather gloves covered by Si. No. D.2.4. 

n.2.2 

44. Heavy Leather goods like Saddlery item*, 


Leather Trunks, Leather Suit-cases 

I) 2 3 

45. Fish and Fish Products, viz i 


(/) Canned Sea Food 

F.1.2 

(it) Dried and Salted Fish 

P.1.3 

46. Foods, viz i 


(/) Frozen Meat 

0.4(1/ 

00 Canned Meat 

G,4(iii; 

47. Instant Tea/Coffee 

0.18(1) 

48. Tea in Bags 

0.18(H) 

19, Tea/Coffee in consumer pack* 

0.18(110 

SO Chocolates and Malted Milk Food 

0.24(0 

51. Spice Oil and Oleoreiln 

G.30 

52. Hand Knotted Carpet* both Woollen and 

K.3 

Silken 

K.8 




['ml —tt 1 ] 


wrcu >*r wrw: *wroR«t 


221 


APPENDIX 13 
(Chapter XVII) 

IMPREST LICENSING SCHEME 


Imprest licences (including Customs Clearance 
Permits and Release Orders) are intended to supply 
imported inputs for export production and will bear a 
suitable export obligation. The value of such 
licences will be debited to the REP entitlement, if any, 
admissible under Appendix 17 of the policy on ex- 

S iorts made in fulfilment of such obligation. An 
mprest licence will not be eligible for Customs duty 
exemption. 

2. No application for a licence under this Scheme 
will be entertained for export of cinematographic 
films (exposed). 

. 3. A registered exporta is eligible to apply for 
Imprest licences :— 

(/) against a valid export contract in his own 
name giving the details specified in para I 
of Appendix 20 of this policy, or 

(li) based on his annual average past export 
performance during the preceding three 
financial years. 

In both the types of cases, exports proposed to be 
effected and the foreign exchange to be realised 
against such exports shall be in his own name only. 
There is no objection, however, to tho export docu¬ 
ments indicating simply the name of the manufacturer. 
If required, but under no circumstances these exports 
would be considered or accepted as the exports effected 
by the manufacturer. 

4. A merchant exporter seeking issue of Imprest 
licence will have to indicate tho name/s and address/es 
of supporting manufacturer/s where the goods im¬ 
ported shall be utilised in the manufacture. A copy 
of the registration certificate issued by the sponsoring 
authority concerned to the supporting manufacturer 
as well as a consent letter from him are to be produced 
along with the application. It will also be necessary 
for the applicant and the supporting manufacturer/s 
Involved to execute a joint bond with bank guarantee 
or legal agreement, as the case may be. 

3. A supporting manufacturer who receives the 
Imported goods from an Imprest licence holder shall 
utilise these goods In the manufacture of the products 
to bo exported by the Imprest licence holder and supply 
the manufactured goods to tho Imprest licence holder. 
Bxports will not be allowed to be effected by the sup¬ 
porting manufacturer directly In his name or on 
behalf of or on account of the Imprest licence 
holder 


6. In the case of the following export products, 
however, the applicant merchant exporter need not 
indicate name/s of the supporting manufacturer/s 

(/) EPNS and German Silver-ware; 

( ii ) Leather manufactures ; 

(HI) Sports goods; 

(rv) Handicrafts; 

(v) Agarbattis and Chandan Dhoop; 

(vt) Natural Silk Fabrics; 

(vii) Readymade Garments; 

(r///) Woollen carpets, druggets and durrics 
(handmade); 

(lx) Handloom products, namely, Cotton fabrics 
and fabrics of cotton and wool/silk/jute and 
non-fabric cotton textile items; and 

(x) Gem and Jewellery. 


7. An Imprest licence will be granted only if there 
is a minimum value addition of 33% from the c.i.f. 
value of imports to the f.o.b. value of exports except 
In cases covered by paras 9(1) and (2) below. Licens¬ 
ing authorities may, for reasons to be recorded, 
decline to consider applications for Imprest licences 
where they consider the minimum value addition 
though 33% or above is not sufficient for the export 
products involved, 

8. A registered exporter is eligible to apply for 
Imprest licences for items excluding :— 

(!) those eligible to be imported by him under 
OGL as per provisions of this Policy, and 

(//) items covered by Appendix 2-Part A. 

Hems of Appendices 2 Part B and 5 Part B speci¬ 
fically permitted for import in Appendix 17 of this 
Policy for the export products involved may be allow¬ 
ed by the licensing authority only within the limits, 
if any, for Import of such items under Appendix 17, 
If any excess value for import of these items is sought, 
these will be considered only on receipt of clearance 
from the CCI&E (EP-II Section), New Delhi. 



222 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 13— Conhl 


9. Applications for issue of Imprest licences will 
be considered as follows :— 

(1) In respect of cases covered by para 3(i) above, 
if the exporter desires to import only the items 
permitted in Appendix 17 and upto the 
import replenishment rate set down therein, 
be will be eligible to get Imprest licence to 
the full extent of such value; and the export 
obligation will be calculated at the inverse 
of the import replenishment rate i.e. if the 
replenishment rate is 10 %, the export obliga¬ 
tion in f.o.b. terms will be 10 times the c.t.f. 
value of the Imprest licence. 

(2) In respect of cases covered by para 3(ii) 
above, if the application is for item(s) and the 
quantity/value conforming to Appendix 17 
in toto, the exporter will be eligible to get an 
Imprest licence for a value that would suffice 
for export production upto 50% of his 
annual average export performance of the 
relevant products during the preceding three 
financial years. The export obligation will 
be determined on the basis given in sub-para 

(1) above. 

(3) In the case of applications covered by para 

3(i) or (ii) above but not covered by sub-para 
(1) or (2) above where the product to be 
exported, the items of import and the quantity/ 
value of the Imprest licence applied for do not 
conform to Appendix 17 in toto, the exporter 
shall furnish a Chartered Engineer’s 

Certificate as prescribed in Appendix 

XVI—F of the Hand Book. Such requests 
will be considered only if in the goods pro¬ 
posed to be exported, there is a minimum 
value addition of 33%. The export obliga¬ 
tion will be fixed equal to the r.o.b. value 
of the order or as per the value addition, 
as the case may be. 

10. Application for Imprest licence In the Pre¬ 
scribed form given in Appendix XVII of the Hand 
Book may be submitted to the licensing authority 
concerned. 

11. For import of components by a DGTD or a 
Textile machinery manufacturing unit the List Attesta¬ 
tion Procedure as per provisions in para 94 of this 
policy will apply. 

Imprest Licences for Gem and Jewellery 

12. Applications for Imprest licences for Import 
of uncut/uapolished diamonds (Rough diamonds) will 
be entertained from registered exporters of cut and 
polished diamonds subject to the following condi¬ 
tions :— 

(1) Exports of cut and polished diamonds. If any. 
effected by the applicant from uncut/un¬ 
polished diamonds (Roughs) Imported from 
DTC, London, are not Included 


(2) Registered exporters who receive DTC sights 
and also claim Imprest licences under these 
provisions will separate their claims for Im¬ 
prest licences under these provisions and Im¬ 
prest DTC licences under the provisions 
given hereafter. 

(3) In respect of applications covered by 3(ii) 
above, (excluding exports relating to DTC 
sights) no second Imprest licence based on 
export performance will be issued to the 
registered exporter during the same licensing 
period. He can, however, secure further 
Imprest licences against valid export con¬ 
tracts. 

In these cases, the Imprest Licences issued will 
bo with an export obligation fixed at inverse ratio of 
65% replenishment i.e., if an Imprest licence is issued 
for (c.i.f.) Rs. 65, f.o.b. value of export obligation will 
be Rs. 100/-. 

13. Applications for Imprest licences under this 
category may be preferred in the form given in 
Appendix XVII—A of the Hand Book of Import- 
Export Procedures, 1985-88 to the licensing authority 
concerned. 

Imprest DTC Licences 

14. (1) The Diamond Trading Company, London, 
allocates monthly sight 1 to select exporters of uncut/ 
unpolished diamond- t the country known as DTC 
sights. Exporters wi , have secure such sights from 
DTC are eligible to obtain Imprc- >TC licences as 
follows :— 

(/) Regular DTC sight Holders shall be allowed 
annual DTC licence equal to the consolidated 
value of all the DTC Sights received by the 
exporter in the preceding year. In addition, 
Brokerage/Commission as per para 14(3) 
below shall also be allowed. 

(Ii) After the allotment of monthly sight, the annual 
DTC licence shall be presented to the licens¬ 
ing authority for endorsement before remit¬ 
tance of Foreign Exchange. Along with the 
application, the sight holder shall also give 
evidence in fulfilment of Export Obligation 
due on account of imports against earlier 
monthly sights. In case the export obliga¬ 
tion is overdue on any previous DTC sight 
or the exporter has been declared a defaulter, 
the endorsement shall be denied. 

(Ill) In case the sights allotted to an exporter are 
not fully covered by the annual DTC licence, 
the exporter may apply to the licensing 
authority for issue of another bulk licence 
which shall be considered keeping in view the 
value of the snoual DTC licence and the 
value of the monthly sights expected in the 
remaining part of the year. 



[*TPT I—TT l] 


HTOf TT xramr: SRHUTPI 


223 


APPENDIX 13— Concltl. 


( Iv ) The new sigh holders may apply for licences 
to the licensing authorities on monthly 
basis after receiving communication regard¬ 
ing allotment of sight from DTC. The pro¬ 
vision regarding outstanding export obliga¬ 
tion given in sub-para (ii) above shall apply. 

(2) Import licences may be issued for a value upto 
5% higher than the normal entitlement to accom¬ 
modate fluctuations in exchange rates with a corres¬ 
ponding increase in the export ob igation. 

(3) Commission/Brokerage charges upto 1J%, 
if given outside the country, may be accepted for 
Issue of Imprest DTC licences against monthly 
sights provided these charges are accounted for corres¬ 
ponding increase in the export obligation prescribed. 

(4) Obligation for export of cut and polished 
diamonds will bo fixed inversely treating the value 
licensed as 65 % of the replenishment. The period 
allowed for fulfilment of export obligation for an 
Imprest DTC licence will be calculated in respect of 
each endorsement made on the licence based on 
release of monthly sights and will be four months 
from the date of clearance of the first consignment 
of import or 30 days from the date of import of the 
first consignment, whichever is earlier. Redemption 
of export obligation will be considered after the expiry 
of the prescribed export obligation period unless 
the export obligation prescribed on the licence has 
been fulfilled earlier. 

(5) An Imprest DTC licence issued under these 
provisions will be valid for import of uncut/un¬ 
polished diamonds from DTC, London, only. 

15. Eligible Registered Exporters may prefer 
applications for Imprest DTC licences to the licens¬ 
ing authority concerned in the form given in 
Appendix XVII—A of the Hand Book. 

Imprest Customs Clearance Permits 

16. (1) Applications for issue of Customs Clearance 
Permit for raw materials, components or consumables 
supplied free of cost for re-export after processing in 
India may be considered. Similarly, applications for 
CCP for goods supplied free of cost to be re-exported 
after jobbing, repairing, servicing, and reconditioning 
in India may also be considered. A suitable export 
obligation shall be imposed in all such cases. Import 
of jigs, tools, fixtures, tackles and instruments relevant 
for such export production supplied free of cost may 
also be allowed. 

(2) Application for Customs Clearance Permit 
under sub-para (1) above may be preferred to the 
licensing authority concerned with a copy to the 
CCI&E (EP-II Section) New Delhi. Imprest CCP will 
be issued on receipt of clearance from the CCI&E. 


Letter o( Authority 

17. The provisions in paras 118 & 119 of the 
Hand Book relating to issue of Letter of Authority 
will not be admissible for a licence issued under this 
Scheme except in cases where such letters of authority 
is in favour of the supporting manufacturer(s) whose 
name(s) has/have been furnished along with applica¬ 
tion for a licence under this Scheme. Similarly, a 
letter of credit can only be opened on a licence under 
this scheme by the licence holder or the supporting 
manufacturer referred to above. 

Export Obligation 

18. Every Imprest licence issued under this Scheme 
will be subject to an export obligation. Such export 
obligation will begin from the date of clearance of the 
first consignment of import or 30 days from the date 
of import of the first consignment, whichever is earlier. 
Before clearance of the first consignment, the licence 
holder shall execute an export bond with bank 
guarantee or legal agreement, as the cas,e may be, 
with the concerned licensing authority as per 
para 339 of the Hand Book. The bond and legal 
agreement forms are given in Appendix XVII—C of 
the Hand Book. 

19. Export obligation prescribed for an Imprest 
(other than Imprest DTC) licence shall be fulfilled 
in six months. Regional licensing authorities headed 
by Jt. CCI&E/Dy. CCI&E may consider, on merits, 
extension of export obligation for a period not exceed¬ 
ing 3 months. Normally, no further extension of 
export obligation will be granted beyond the three 
months referred to above. However, in exceptional 
cases and for reasons beyond the control of the ex¬ 
porter, the CCI&E (EP-II Section), New Delhi may 
consider grant of further extension in export obliga¬ 
tion period. In the case of export of recorded 
Cassettes (Audio and Video) no extension shall be 
granted. 

20. The licensing authority concrned may, on 
request, for valid reasons, enhance the c.i.f. value of 
the Imprest licence provided the f.o.b. value of export 
obligation prescribed is correspondingly enhanced. 
Reduction in the c.i.f. value of licence is also permis¬ 
sible, but any reduction in the fob value of export 
obligation will require prior clearance from the 
CCl&E New Delhi. 

21. The goods imported against a licence issued 
under this Scheme will be used for the purpose for 
which they have been imported or lor further produc¬ 
tion by the importer. However, request for transfer 
of imported materials against a licence issued under 
the Scheme as a replenishment to the supporting 
manufacturer referred to in para 17 above at landed 
cost (c.i.f. plus customs duty) may be considered, on 
merits, by the CCI&E (EP-II Section), New Delhi. 

22. The provisions of paras 24(2), (3), (4), (6), 
26, 28 and 29 (excluding payment of duty and inte¬ 
rest in sub-para [3]) or Appendix 19 of this policy 
will apply, mutatis mutandis, to this Scheme also. 



224 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDDC 14 

MACHINERY REQUIRED FOR MANUFACTURE 
OF WOODEN FURNITURE 


MSI. Description of the machinery 
}No. 

ITC Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

1. Wood Moulding Machine auto¬ 
matic from 4 spindles to 8 
spindles 

728.1203 

84.47 

2. Automatic and Semi-automatic 
copying lathe#. 

736.1312 & 
736.1319 

84.43 

3. Wood Dowel Making machines 

728.1209 

84.47 

4. Edge Banding Machine. 

NSC 

84.45 

3. Multiple Rip Saw machine 

728.1203 

84.43 

6. Router Machine 

NSC 

84,43 

7. Wood Tenoining machine 

728.1209 

84.47 

8. Panel Cutting aud Grooving 
machine#. 

728.1209 

84.47 

9, Veneer Clippers. 

728.1206 

84.47 

LO. Automatic Band-Saw blade 
grinding and brazing machines. 

NSC 

84.45 

11. Glue Spreader machine 

NSC 

84,39 


Si. Description of the machinery 
No. 

TTC Rev. 2 
Code 

CCCN 

Code 

12. Pneumatic Screw Driven, Pneu¬ 
matic Nailing machine and all 
other pneumatic tools required 
for the furniture industry. 

NSC 

84.49 

13. Parquet Flooring machine 

NSC 

84.47 

14. Wood Moisture meter 

NSC 

90.16 

13. Light duty clothe and cotton 
clothe cutter machine for tbe 
furniture upholstery. 

724.7405 

84.40 


Notes i— 

1. Tho ITC R. 2 and CCCN Code numbers have been 
assigned to facilitate collection of data only. 

2. These will be reproduced on the Bills of Entry filed by 
the importer and on licences whenever issued. 

3. These, however, will not be binding on customs 
authorities for classification for tariff purposes. 

4. The interpretation of the Import-Export Policy, will, 
however continue to be as per description of the Items 
given to this Appendix and not according to the Code 
numbers assigned- 

5. NSC denotes "Not Separately Classified ” 



[«TPT I—<CT l] 


wot w <Mi4« : TwrardT^ 


225 


APPENDIX 15 
(Chapter XX) 

IMPORT POLICY FOR REGISTERED EXPORTERS IN FREE TRADE ZONES 


1 Licensing authority 

The Controller of impo/ts and Exports, New 
Kandla is the licensing authority for Kandla Free 
Trade Zone and the Deputy Development Cotnmiv 
■loner (Imports Sc Exports) Santacmz Electronic* 
Export Processing Zone, Bombay is the licensing 
authority for that Zone. 

2. Import ot Capital Good* 

(7) Import of Capital Goods into these Free 
Trade Zones has been placed on Open 
General Licence. 

(ii) The Development Commissioner of the Zone 
will verify whether the machinery imported 
is meant for the purpose of production for 
which the importing unit has been approved 
in the Zone. 

{Hi} Import of prototype*, office equipment and 
consumables for office equipment into these 
Zopcs has also been placed on Open General 
Licence. 

(fv) Import of Diesel Generating sot into these 
zones has also been placed on O.G.L. 

3. Import ol Raw Material*. Components and Spare* 

etc. 

Import of raw materials, components, spares etc. 
Into these Zones has been placed on Open General 
Licence. However, items banned for import in the 
Domestic Tariff Area under Appendix 2, Pan A 
of this policy will not be allowed to be impotted In 
the free trade zones under Open General Licence. 

4. A copy of the Open Genera) Licence is given 
In this Appendix. The importers are advised to re¬ 
gulate their import* under the Open General Licence 
ip inch a way that they adhtrr to the value added 
criterion on the basis of which their project was ap¬ 
proved. The Development Comrrustioaer of the 
Zone shall examine that the mine added criterion i* 
being observed. 

5. Supplies from Domestic Tariff Area (DTA) to the 

son* 

tl) Itntns which the ooiU In the lone can Import 
under Open General Licence, if supplied from Domes¬ 
tic Tariff Area to the units in the Zone will be eligible 


for import replenishment licence* in accordance with 
the import policy for Registered Eiporien, provided.-- 

( a) the goods lupplicd have been manufactured 
in India; 

(t>) the supplie* have been made at international 
price; 

(t j the supplier is a Registered Exporter and i* 
otherwise eligible to the import replenish" 
ment licence under the policy in force; 

(d) the supplies arc made against a letter of 
authority issued by the Development Com¬ 
missioner of the Zone; and 

( e ) supplies made are not semi-finished goods. 

(«‘) ’ Jnii» located in the. Zone desiring to procure 
any goods from DTA for export production should 
make separate applications to the licensing authority 
through the Development Commissioner for obtaining 
letter of authority, indicating the items and their value 
(No letter of authority will be required for such good* 
which are not required for export production). 

(ifi) While dealing with nuch applications, rtoc 
Development Commissioner will see whether the 
supplies sought to be made In the Zone from the DTA 
are essential for export production and will also 
scrutinise the prices at which the materials, in question 
are sought to be purchased, 

(tv) Based on the above, the licensing Authority 
will issue a letter of authority to enable the trait in 
the Zone to obtain supplies of goods of specified des¬ 
cription and value from the DTA within a specified 
period. The letter of authority will, itutr alia, be 
subject to the condition that the goods, in question, 
shall be utilised in the factory of the letter of autho¬ 
rity holder in the Free Tnde Zone for export produc¬ 
tion. An undertaking to tips effect shat! also be 
given by the applicant to the licensing authority along 
with his application for such letter of authority 
Failure on the part of the letter of authority bolder to 
comply with the condition of the letter of authority 
and the term* of the said undertaking shall n-udor 
him liable for inch action as may be taken against him 
in this regard. 

(v) The goods will be allowed entry *nto the Zen* 
on the strength of the said letter of authority At 
the time of entry of the goods Into the Zone, the 
customs authority or the Development Commission 
of the Zone will endorse the supplier’s Invoice to the 
effect that the goods covered bv the invoice have been 
received In ffi* Eon* 



226 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDiA ia — Lonta 


(vi) The supplier of the goods can claim import 
replenishment licences under the import policy for 
registered exporters against such supplies. Impoit 
applications should be made to the Controller of 
Imports & Exports, New Kandia|Dy. Development 
Commissioner (Imports Sl Exports), Santacruz Export 
Processing Zone, Bombay in the form prescribed in 
the Hand Book of Import-Export Procedures, 
1985—88. The application should be supported by 
the following documents ■— 

(a) Challan for the requisite amount towards 
payment of application foe. 

(b) Photostat/attested copy of the letter of autho¬ 
rity issued by the Development Commis¬ 
sioner, on the basis of which the good*, in 
question, were supplied 

(c) Supplier’* invoice duly endorsed by custom* 
authority id the zone to the effect that the 
good* covered by the invoice have been 
received in the Zone. 

(d) A statement of export* in the form prescribed 
is the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce¬ 
dures, 1985—88. 

(a) An undertaking/declaration in the form 
appended to the form of import application. 

Further details may be ascertained from the Develop¬ 
ment Coruraissioucr of the Zone or the licensing 
authority concerned. 

(vii) The supplier of the goods can alsa claim 
other benefits, namely, (a) discharge of export obli¬ 
gation against Capiul Good* licence or Industrial 
licence or Foreign Collaboration approval, (b) grant 
of export house certificate, and (c) benefits, if any, 
available to exporting units under the Actual User 
Policy. 

6. Disposal of surplus imported goods 

Requests for disposal of goodi imported into 
the zone may be considered, oi merits, by the Ministry 
of Commerce, on the recommendation of the Deve¬ 
lopment Commissioner of the zone. The permission 
for disposal, if granted will be subject to *uch condi¬ 
tions a* Government may Impose 

7. Sale of goods In India against Valid General 

Currency Area Import licences 

(1) Good* manufactured in Free Trade Zone In 
India may be allowed to be sold in the Dome«tlc Tariff 
Area against Valid General Currency Area Import 
licence* Such lale lhall not exceed 25 per cent of 
production of the »ame Item by the unit concerned 
in the Free Trade Zone daring the licensing year. 


(2) The sale shall be effected only with the prior 
permission of the Development Commissioner of the 
concerned Free Trade Zone. The unit desiring to 
sell their goods to the Domestic Tariff Area should, 
therefore, approach the Development Commissioner. 
It should also Indicate the quantity of the item sought 
to be supplied in DTA against valid GCA licence and 
the total quantity of the same item produced by the 
unit, as on date, during the concerned licensing year 
to enable the Development Commissioner to verify 
that the proposed sale is not exceeding 25 per cent of 
the production already turned out by the unit. 

(3) After obtaining permission from the Develop¬ 
ment Commissioner, the Bale can be effected against 
valid GCA licence. The Development Commissioner 
will debit the connected import licence before the 
goods are allowed to be taken out of the Zone. To 
this extent, the import lieence shall cease to be valid 
for further import*. 

(4) The purchaser of the goods in the Domestic 
Tariff Area shall be liable to pay the excise duty, 
sales tax and such other taxes as may be leviable on 
the goods in question. This shall be subject to Notifi¬ 
cation No. lJ/83-Central Excise dated the lltb 
February, 1983 issued by the Department of Revenue, 
New Delhi and such other notifications or instruction* 
as may be Issued by them, from time to time in 
regard to the *ale of goods manufactured in a Free 
Trade Zone, into the Domestic Tariff Area. 

Transfer of Goods imported Into Free Trade Zone 

8. The following procedure* will apply to the trans¬ 
fer/loaning of good* imported Into Free Trade 
Zones :— 

(/) The imported materials can be transferred 
or given on loan to another unit in the same 
zone with the written permission of the 
Development Commissioner of the concern 
ed zone. 

(ft) The goods imported into Free Trade Zones 
will not be allowed to be given on loan to 
unit* situated outside the Zouc. 

(iff) Where a unit situated in the zone is unable 
to utilise the imported goods for the purpose 
for which these were imported or the mate¬ 
rial is surplus to its needs, it may transfer 
that material to an eligible Actual User out¬ 
side the zone or to a public sector agency, 
with the prior written permission of the 
Licensing authority concerned provided (a) 
the case has been recommended by the 
Development Commissioner of the concern¬ 
ed zone and the iponsoring authority of 
the buyer (where the buyer is an Actual 
User (b) the Customs Authorities in the 
Zone hnve no objection to the good* being 
taken out of the Zone on payment of cu»- 
toms duty and other charges, if any. 



[m*T I—i] 


•tra V\ 'J ji'irt : srcrWTP*T 


227 


APPENDIX lS-Conrd. 


(iv) In the event of the Board of Approval allow* 
ing debonding of a unit in Free Trade Zone 
or granting permission for disposal of capital 
goods, imported raw materials, or components 
etc. rendered surplus with the unit, the custom 
duties on debonding disposal will be leviable 
in the following manner : 

(a) Customs duty on Capital goods on the 
depreciated value but at rates prevalent 
at the time of Import; 

(h) Customs duty on unused imported raw 
materials and components on value at the 
time of import gnd at rates in force at 
the time of clearances; and 

(c) In respect of excisable goods, excise duty 
to be levied without depreciation and at 
rale attracted at the time of clearance. 


(r) Supplies/transfers of materials from a unit 
in Free Trade Zone to a unit in another Free 
Trade Zone or to a 100% Export Oriented 
Unit may be permitted by the Development 
Commissioner subject to the following condi¬ 
tions :— 

(1) It shall be ensured that the value addi¬ 
tion expected to be fulfilled by the Sup¬ 
plier has already been fulfilled by him 
before the material leaves the unit in 
the Zone. 


(2) The value of these goods is accounted by 
the buyer for the purpose of value addi¬ 
tion prescribed for him in accordance with 
the instructions in force from time to time. 

(3) For payment of duties, the original 
supplier will be liable, and for this pur¬ 
pose a joint bond will be taken from the 
seller and the buyer. 

(4) Movement of materials from a unit in the 
zone to a unit in another Free Trade 
Zone or 100% Export Orieuted Unit will 
be under Customs bond. 

(5) The liability of the original supplier will 
remain notwithstanding the supplies/ 
transfers effected by him to units in other 
Free Trade Zones or 100% Export 
Oriented Units. 

(6) Transit cost is to be borne by the seller. 
Similarly, all expenses incurred by the 
Customs on account of such move¬ 
ments will be recovered as per Procedure 
for Recovery to be announced by the 
Customs. 

(7| Only one such transfer of good* shall be 
allowed and thereafter the goods/pro¬ 
ducts manufactured therefrom shall be 
exported. 



228 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec 1] 


U'l’ENlHX 15 -Com Id 


(COPY OP OPEN GENERAL LICENCE FOR FREE TRADE ZONES) 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 
ORDER NO. 18/83-88 
New Delhi, the 12th April , 1985 
OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO. 18/83 

la exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 (18 of 1947), the Central Government 
gives general permission, till Airthor orders to the Actual Users located in the respe dive Free Trade Zones for the import of (1) Capita) 
Goods (whethor new or second hand), (2) raw materials, (3) components, (4) spares. (3) consumables, (6) packing materials, (7) tools, 
Jigs, fixtures and gauges, (8) prototypes and technical samples not exceeding two in number of each type for product diversification 
and development or evaluation (9) Diesel Generating set into the Free Trade Zones, subject to the Actual User condition as applicable 
thereto in each case. However, items banned for Import in Domestic Tariff Area under Appendix 2, Part A of this Policy, will 
not be allowed to bo imported in the Free Trade Zones under this Open OencraJ licence. 

2. For import of second hand Capital Goods, the importer shall produce to the Customs authority at the time of clearance, a 
Certificate from a professional independent Chartered Engineer/any equivalent Institute In the Country 1 from which import is made, 
indicating:— 

(a) Name of manufacturer of the plant end machinery; 

(b) Year of manufacture; 

(o) Present condition of the plant and machinery and its expected residual life (Import of machinery having expected residual life 

of loss than 5 years and also machinery more than 7 yea-s old shall not be allowed); 

(d) the c.I.f. value of equivalent Capital Goods; if purchased new. 

(e) Nature of re-oondltionliig/repalr done, if any, and the date(s) on Which these were carried out; and 

(0 Opinion regarding the price asked f6r by the suppliers and the basis for such opinion. 

3. On the recommendation of the Development Commissioner of the concerned Zone, such Actual Users may also Import for the 
purpose of their own production/use. product diversification and development or evaluation (i) prototype* and technical samples not 
oovered in para I, (ii) drawings, blue prints, oharts, technical data including micro-films and (iii) office equipment, spares and consumables 
thereof. 

4. Such Actual Users may also Import goods received (i) for repafo/recondltioning by them in the Zone and <o be re-expottrd 
'hereafter or (ii) back from the consignees overseas within a period cf three years from the dale of their desptnch to him by the Actual 
User (after following I he connected formalities under the Foreign Exbcango Regulations Act), 

3. The importer shall maintain In the prescribed form proper account of the Import, consumption and utilisation of all imported 

materials and of the exports made by him and submit them periodically as required to the Development Commissioner of the Zone end 

to the licensing authority concerned. The importer shall oonform to the minimum value-added condition stipulated by Government In Ini 
ca*o- 


6. This licence is without prejudice to the application to any goods of any other prohibition or regulation a I foci lag the import 'h,n 
may be in force at the time when such goods arc Imported. 

7. This licence is ia supersession of Ministry of Commerce Import Trade Control Order No. 19/84 , dated the I2lh April. 1984 


CHIEF CONTROLLER Op IMPORTS 


Sd/- 

(I* C MiN 1 
ASP EXPORTS 


(Copy to all concerned) 
By Order etc- 


Sd/ 

lO.P. GAHROTRAi 

POINT CHIEF CONTROLLER OP IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 
\huK<ifrom file No. \l2lXV!IREPnxCPC{Vol 



[*mTl—*¥ l] 


*TTCJ Vt TO* . 3WI1H' | I 


229 


APPENDIX 16 

SELECT LIST OF EXPORT PRODUCTS 


1. Engineering goods. 

1.1 Engineering goods including stainless steel 
products (excluding prime steel and non- 
ferrous metals) 

1.2 Ferro-alloys. 

2. Chemicals, plastics and allied products. 

2.1 Chemicals and allied products, namely 

(a) Inorganic chemicals, organic chemicals and 
miscellaneous chemicals. 

(b) Drugs and drug intermediates including 
crude drugs. 

(c) Dyes and dye intermediates. 

( d) Toiletries and perfumeries and perfumery 
compounds (excluding processed talc). 

(e) Paints and allied products. 

(/) Safety matches, fireworks, explosives and 
detonators. 

(g) Ceramic products. 

(A) Glass and glassware. 

(/) Asbestos, cement including clinkers and 
cement products. 

()) Wood products and processed wood. 

(A) Rubber manufactures including reclaimed 
rubber. - 

(/) Paper, paper products and stationery, 
including books, journals and periodicals and 
articles made of paper pulp. 

(m) Pesticides and preservatives. 

(n) Agarbattis, dhoop and incense. 

( o ) Synthetic graphite products. 

2.2 Refractories. 

2.3 Plastics and Linoleum products. 

3. Leather and sports goods. 

3.1 Finished leather and leather manufactures 
including Footwear and Brushes all kinds 
made of animal bristles 

3.2 Sports goods. 

4 Pood, agriculture and forest products. 

4.1 Animal casings. 

4 2 Canned and frozen marine product* 


4.3 Processed foods, Dehydrated onions, Cashew 
Kernels roasted/salted, cocoa beans/powder, 
alchololic and soft beverages. 

4.4 Meat, Poultry, Eggs and allied products. 

4.5 Packaged tea l.e. tea packed in consumer 
packs of a size upto 1 kg. and instant tea. 

4.6 Green tea, 

4.7 Instant and packaged ground coffee. 

4.8 Ossein and gelatine, 

4.9 Tobacco manufactures. 

4.10 Flowers (dry or fresh), Cut flowers and 
decorative plants. 

4.11 Seeds of Vegetables, flowers and fruits. 

4.12 Fruits (fresh or dry). Fresh Vegetables. 

4:13 Spices and curry powder and pastes (consu¬ 
mer pack of 1 kg. or less). 

4.14 Treated and Pulverised Guar Gum. 

4.15 Natural essential oils. 

4.16 Deoiled rice bran extraction (produced by 
solvent extraction process) and Deoiled cotton 

seed cakes/cotton seed extraction (produced 
by solvent extraction process) and Compound 
Animal Feed (excluding oil cakes). 

4.17 Mango Kernel Extractions and mango 
Kernel oil. 

4.18 Soyabean Extraction/Meal and its products. 

4.19 Sun Flower Seed Extraction. 

4.20 Sal seed fats and Sal Seed Extraction (pro¬ 
duced by solvent extraction process). 

4.21 Parts of dry plants and twigs used foi 
decorative purposes 

4.22 Basmati Rice in consumer packs upto 5 Kgs. 

4.23 Roasted and salted Peanuts in consumer 
packs of 1 Kg. 

4.24 Extractions of Rape seed/Sesame/Safllowcr. 

5. Textiles. 

5 .1 Carpets, druggets, durries, namdhas and rug*. 

5.2 Woollen (including Mohair) and mixed fabric*, 
garments and knitwear. 

5.3 Rubberised coir and curled coir. 

5.4 Cotton fabrics (other than grey). Cotton 
garments and made up articles. 

5.5 Khadi. 

5.6 Man made fibres/cord/yam/fabrics (Including 
blcnded/mixed), garments "and made op 
articles thereof, 


230 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; EXTRAORDINARY [Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 

5.7 Natural silk fabrics, farmects and made-up 
articles. 

5.8 The following jute manufactures 
(a) Carpet backing. 

(ft) Decorative and other specialities. 

(c) Polyethylene-lined jute bags. 

(d) Jute yarn A wine. 

5.9 Hosiery- 

5.10 Embroidered Fabrics. 

5.11 Handloom Fabrics, made up articles and 

garments. 

5.12 Products from flax fibres 

6. Gem and jewellery . 

6.1 Cut and polished diamonds, precious and 
semi-precious stones; polished or processed 
pearls and imitation and costume jewellery. 


Ib—Condd. 

6.2 Precious metal jewellery and cut and poli¬ 
shed synthetic stones. 

7 . Handicrafts. 

7.1 Handicrafts. 

7.2 Cut and polished granite. 

8. Miscellaneous. 

8.1 Cinematographic films (exposed). 

8.2 Fabricated mica Including mlcanite insulating 
materials bonded with synthetic resins 

8.3 Shellac. 

8.4 Briquetted lignite and coal. 

8.5 Minor minerals and ores—processed. 

8.6 Postage stamps—used or unused. 



[«TFT I—« l] 


'tttct vi Tnm sfinuRW 


231 


APPENDIX 17 
(Para 193 of Chapter XIV) 

IMPOK1 POLICY FOR REGISTERED EXPORTERS 
GENERAL CONDITIONS 


This Appendix contains the description of export 
products covered by the import policy for Registered 
Exporters, the percentage of import replenishment 
and materials allowed for import against each pro¬ 
duct as well as other conditions relating thereto. 

2. The export products have been classified under 
various ‘Product Groups’ such as Engineering Goods, 
Chemicals and Allied Products and so on. These pro¬ 
duct groups have been given alphabetical numbering 
e.g., 'A* for Engineering Goods etc. Certain product 
groups have been sub-divided into broad ‘Categories’ 
such as “Ferrous Manufactures”, "Non-ferrous (other 
than aluminium) Semis and Manufactures” in the 
Engineering Group and so on. In each Product 
Group/Category, export products have been mention¬ 
ed with their Serial Numbers or Sub-serial Numbers. 
In the serial numbering there are certain gaps. Serial 
Numbers and Sub-serial Numbers which appeared 
in the earlier policy but which are missing from this 
policy, have been deleted as export products quali¬ 
fying for import replenishment. 

3. Against some of the materials of import men¬ 
tioned in Col. 4 or Col. 5, a percentage figure is 
indicated in brackets. This figure represents the 
percentage of the licence value (i.e. REP entitle¬ 
ment) upto which import of the material concerned 
will be allowed. In such cases, the licence-holder 
can—for more economic ordering/packing/freight 
considerations—import relevant items more in value/ 
quantity only upto 5% of the specified limit, within 
the over-all value of the licence. The value restric¬ 
tions on individual items in Col. 4 or Col. 5 whether 
shown as a percentage of the licence value or other¬ 
wise, will not apply in the following cases:— 

(/) where the REP entitlement against ‘quarterly’ 
exports for which REP licence is issued, does 
not exceed Rs. 10,000 (c.i.f.) in value, or 

(//) where the REP entitlement against ‘half- 
yearly’ exports for which the REP licence is 
issued, does not exceed Rs. 20,000 (c.i.f.) 
in value. 

The relaxation in (i) and (li) above will not be 
available for items appearing in Appendices 2 and 5 
Part B of import policy. 


4. It may be clarified that where a product exported 
in an assembled form is eligible for import replenish¬ 
ment under the Import Policy for Registered Expor¬ 
ters, its export in CKD (completely knocked down) 
condition or SKD (semi-knocked down) condition 
will also quality for import replenishment 

5. No import of an item appearing in Appendix 
2 shall be allowed against REP licences, except 
if an item appearing in Appendix 2 Part B is speci¬ 
fically described for import either under Col. 4 or 
under Col. 5 or against an Advance/Tmprest Licence 
issued under this Policy. 

6. Wherever “packing materials” is allowed for 
import in Col. 4 and the items permitted as packing 
material include paper or card board or plastic 
materials such as LDPE, the licence will also be valid 
for import of “Self adhesive tape” as packing material 
upto 1 % of the value earmarked for import of packing 
materials or Rs. 500 whichever is higher, within the 
overall value for which packing materials can be 
imported against the relevant REP licence. 

7. Where “packing materials” appear in Col. 4 
without mentioning the particular items allowed for 
import, the REP licence will be valid for import of 
only such packing materials or raw materials required 
for the manufacture of only such packing materials 
as are normally used for packing the relevant export 
product against which the REP licence, in question, 
has been issued. 

8. Against certain export products, for example 
SI. No. A.64, SI. No. B. 11.1 etc. Col. 4 permits the 
import of items appearing in the Appendices 3 and 
5 without mentioning the specific items. In such 
cases, the export product in Col. 2 covers more than 
one product and it is difficult to mention in Col. 4 
itself the specific items of raw materials and com¬ 
ponents which go into the production of each of 
the export products covered by the particular Serial 
Number or Sub-serial Number. Therefore, in such 
cases, while applying for REP licence, each exporter 
should submit with the import application the list of 
9uch items as are actually used as raw materials/com- 
ponents in the manufacture of the product(s) exported 
except items which have been specifically exlclu- 



232 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 


dcd In Col. 4 or Col. 5 . It should be also ensured 
that only those items are included In the list which 
are actually used as raw materials and components 
in the manufacture of the relevant product exported. 
Tho licensing authority may, after due scrutiny of 
the list, exclude therefrom any Item which in his 
opinion is not actually used as raw material/com¬ 
ponent in the manufacture of product(s) exported. 
If at any time, it is found that an exporter obtained 
REP licence under this provision for an item which 
was not actually used as raw material/component 
for the manufacture of the product exported against 
which the REP licence was issued, the licence in ques¬ 
tion, shall be liable to cancellation. If the licence has 
been used by the time the irregularity comes to notice, 
the value of the licence shall be adjusted against the 
import entitlement of the exporter in any category. 
These actions will be without prejudice to any other 
action that may be taken in this behalf under the im¬ 
port and export control regulations. 

9. Where import of Acrylic plastic off cuts is allow¬ 
ed in Column 4 or Column 5 their size shall not 
be more than 25 ems either in length or width. 

10. Wherever production of Quality control/ 
Preshipment Inspection certificate is compulsory as 
per Compulsory Export Quality Control and Ins¬ 
pection Act 1963 or any other statute, the registered 
exporter shall produce such certificate while claim¬ 


ing replenishment benefits under this Policy. Where 
such Inspection is not compulsory as above, exporters 
may approach the Export Inspection Agency or 
other statutory agencies concerned on voluntary 
basis, for issue of such certificates. Wherever Test 
certificates are required showing the quality and con¬ 
tents of the different materials constituting the export 
products, such certificates will also be furnished by 
the exporters. The grant of REP licences will be 
subject to the production of these certificates, where- 
ever applicable. This provision will also apply to 
grant of REP licences on supplies of indigenous 
materials against valid Import licences in terms of 
para 152 of this Policy. 

11. In respect of carbon steel and alloy steel 
wherever allowed in Column 4 and Column 5 against 
various products in this Appendix, the following 
clarifications are made:— 

(a) Wherever 'CRCA sheets’ are permitted, the 
same shall be understood to mean ‘Carbon 
Steel CRCA sheets’ only. 

(b) Wherever as per provisions of Appendix 17 
of this policy stainless steel coils/strips/shcets/ 
Circles are imported it would be in cold rol¬ 
led condition only. 

(c) ‘High Carbon’ shall meau carbon contents 
0.6% and above. 


STATEMENT Or IMPORT REPLENISHMENT 


SI. No Export Product 


1 2 
a7 engineering goods 


Import 

replenish¬ 

ment 

percentage 

Materials permitted for Import 

Remarks 

".~~3 

4 



General Notes i — 

(1) [In case of Engineering 
products listed in Appen¬ 
dix 17 where under Column 
4 import of steel/Pig Iron 
is allowed and such items 
are covered by Price Pro¬ 
tection Schemc/Internatio- 
nal Price Reimbursement 
Scheme 1981 and where 
the expurter of steel pro¬ 
ducts claims reimburse¬ 
ment for those items under 
the said schomes he will 
be entitled to claim import 
replenishment only for 
Items other than those 
oovered by the said 
schemes. The rate of Im¬ 
port replenishment will be 
as mentioned against the 
respective SI, No in. 
Annexure to Appendix 17. 



[wrl—ire i] 

STTC3 *51 Trsna ; 3WIHT<W! 

233 



APPENDIX 

17— Conta. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

3 

A. ENGINEERING GOODS— Contd. 



(2) Import of Heat Resisting 
Stainless Steel, and High 
Speed Steel in any form/sha" 
pe and seamless steel tube* 
and pipes as appearing in 
Appendix 3 will not be 
allowed on REP licence*) 
unless specifically mentio¬ 
ned in column 4 against 
specified product group in 
Appendix 17. 

L FERROUS MANUFACTURES 




A.l 

(1) Carbon steel forging* 

. 40% 

(a) Forging quality Carbon 
steel (with less than 0.6% 
carbon) In blooms, billet* 
and bars. 



<tt) Alloy «teol forging*. 

40% 

(a) Forging quality alloy steel 
In blaoms, billets and bars 
(oxdoding Stainlcss/Heat 
resisting steel and High 
speed steel). 


A.4 

Steel Wire and products made of 
such wire i— 





(a) High Carbon Steel Wire and pro¬ 
ducts thereof i— 





(f) Galvanteed/Blectroplated/Copper 
coated/Bronze coated. 

40% 

(a) Zlno (for galvanised) (33 %). 

(b) Nickel (for electroplated) (35 %). 




(o) Copper sulphate (for cop- 
por coated/bronze coated). 





(d) Raw Manila Hemp (Fibre)/ 
Raw Sisal Fibre. 





(e) Carbon Steel having carbon 
content 0.6% and above (60%). 


(II) Ungalvanised and oncoated 

- 20% 

(a) Carbon steel having carbon 
content 0.6% and above. 



(b) Steel Wire Rope* i 





(!) Galvanised/electroplated 

• 33% 

(a) Same as against SI. No. 
A.4(a)(l) strove. 



(II) Ungalvanlsed and uncoated 

20% 

(a) Carbon steel having oasbon 
content 0.6% and above. 



(c) Carbon stool Welded wire mesh 

- 40% 

(o) Carbon steel wire rods with 
carbon content less than 
0.6%. 

(1) Import of Zinc to the 
extent of 10% of the face 
value of the licence will 
be allowed against export 
of Galvanised Carbon 

Steel welded wire mesh 


(d) Other* i— 





(I) Galvanised . 

. io% 

(a) Zinc. 

( b ) Raw Manila Hemp (Fibre)/ 
Raw Sisal Fibre 



(It) Copper coated 

- 10% 

(a) Copper sulphate. 

( b ) Raw Manila Hemp (Fibre)/ 
Raw Sisal Fibre. 


A 3 

Open top sanitary containers 

. 40% 

(o) Tin plate, prime OTS quality/ 

M.R. Type. 




(6) Tin (3%). 





(e) Lead of 99.97% and above 
purity (5%). 


58 GI/85- 

-16. 






234 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I—Sec. 1] 

AfPENDIA 11-Cunt*- 



L FERROUS MANUFACTURES— toacla. 


A.T Other ferrous manufacture* •— 



(0 Steel pipes and tubes 


80 K 

£ti))(Hot rolled carbon st##I 
strlps/tolls. 

(1) Import of dne will be 
allowed to tbe extent of 
20% of the f.o.b. value 
within tbe overall replenish¬ 
ment against export of gal¬ 
vanised steel pipe* and tube*. 


(II) Others—Galvanised/Elect ropl*<rd 

1052 

(a) Zinc (for galvanised). 
t» Nickel (for electroplated). 

(1) Against exports of Nylon 
Insert CNyloc”)—Self- 

locklng nuts, steel look nuta 
and wheel nuts, an additio¬ 
nal 30% Import replenish¬ 
ment shall be available foi 
Import of sulphur bearing 
fra* cutting steel only. 


(III) Arc welding electrodes 


1051 

(a) Iron Powdtr. 

( f> ) Titanium dioxide (20%). 



(If) High Tensile Precision 
Pa» ten era. 

Industrial 

30% 

fa) Cold Reading Quality Steel 
Wire Rods In colls. 






(/>) Alloy Stool wire Rods (90%) 


(r) Transmission Line Tower* (Galvanised'' 

10 SJ 

(a) Carbon steol/HIgh tensile 
steel structural*.' 






(») Zlmc (30%). 


A.* 

CJsbon Steel wire and prod acts 
tuch wire i— 

cni'.l* nt 





(1) Gnlvanlsed/Blectropltitad 

‘ # 

less 

(a) Zlno (for gnlvanlsed). 
it) Nickel (for electroplated). 



(II) Copper coated 

• * 

10% 

(a) Copper wire bars. 


A0 

Freight container* . 

• U 

20% 

(a) Metal fittings, paints, steel 
items In Appendices 3 and 
3- 

(1) Please see para 8 of 
‘General Conditions' in this 
Appendix. 


(6) Corner castings. 

(e) Doortocklng mechsnltm. 


A.U) Manufactures of Carbon and alloy *nw ; » 20% (o) Nickel. (1) Import of Low carbon 

and spring steels. (3) Heavy melting scrap. ferro-ebrome (0.03% to 0.1 % 

(c) Low carbon feno-ebromo carbon max.) will be allowod 
(0.03% to 0.1 % carlton max.) only against export of alloy 
(J) Lead fl0%). steels Including alloy sprtag 

steels. 


II. ALUMINIUM SEMIS AND MANUFACTURES 
THEREOF 


All Aluminium sstnls and inartutaoswriw thereof 3053 (a) Aluminium/Aluminium 

rods. 


HI NON-FERROUS (OTHER THAN ALUMINIUM) 
SEMIS AND MANUFACTURE? 


A.Id Non-ferrous semis extraal'-Jtte t— 

fi) Lend Semls/e’At-r.t •vta/s Mti wires VI W (o) Pig Lend of 99.9T% and (1) Import of tin will be allo- 

above purity. (wed up to 30% of the REF 

(W) (a) Semta/crfruslon* of i ■ up«t and f f % tn) Coppt'r wire b»r*/w!re rods. entitlement wlthlo tha over 

Copper printing all value of tbe licence only 

(H ’feenlSi'axtniwloiM af copper ebor *f (»' r-ppei wire barCwlr* rod* against exports of sold#' 

w|r®«. 

O; Btae(40JR. 

>«i Tl« (10%). 


[wr 1— m 1 ] 


VTFW W TPTO . amWT°T 


235 


APPENDIX 17— Contd, 


2 3 4 3 


HI. NON-FERROUS (OTHER THAN ALUMINIUM) 
SEMIS AND MANUFACUTRES —Cone Id 


'b 


\ it 


Other Non-ferrous Manufacture* (sxclud- 
lag industrial velvet) 


SO 3 (a) Copper * ,fe ban /wire tod* 

(b) Zinc (40%). 

<c) Tin (10/0. 

(d) Nickel (20%). 


(1) For the purpose of oalca- 
fating REP benefits against 
export of Silver brazing 

S in the form of rods/ 
cut to size containing 
not more than 50% silver, 
the licensing authority will 
exoludo the value of silver 
from the f.o.b. value of the 
export product. The balanoe 
f.o.b. value of export 
will only be eligible for REP 
benefits. If otherwise ad¬ 
missible under the policy. 
Applications should be 
accompanied by a Charter¬ 
ed Accountant or a Govern¬ 
ment laboratory certificate 
Indicating the quantity of 
silver content and its value 
used in the export product 
based on which the licens¬ 
ing authority will work out 
the REP entitlement after 
excluding the value of sil¬ 
ver. It Is clarified that if the 
exported silver blazing 
alloy in tbe form of rods/ 
•ticks cut to sizes contains 
more than 30% silver by 
weight, no REP benefits will 
be admissible thereon. 


(2) Exporters of EPNS Wares, 
who are registered with 
Development Commissioner 
for Handicrafts, will not be 
required to be registered 
separately with Engineering 
Export Promotion Council. 


tv. ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, BQUIJPMENt 
AND APPARATUS 

A.2J Air-conditioning tad refrigeration equip- 6% 

went, Humidification, Ventilation and air 
control equipment and »part parts 
thereof. 


(3) Import of Nickel will be 
allowed only against export 
of (l) EPNS wares ancf (2) 
Nickel plated non-ferrous 
manufactures covered by 
this Serial No. 


(a) Refrigerants, 

(« CRCA sheets (23%) 

(c) Zinc. 

(</) Stainless steel sheets 0.T11 
mm to 0,914 mm and 2.11 
mm (against exports o( 
water coolers and freezers 
only). 


(1) Against exports of "All 
conditioning and Refri¬ 
geration equipment, com¬ 
pressors and spare parts 
thereof", tbe Import 
replenishment will bo 
20% and import of 
Copper winding wires 
(50%) wifi be allowed 
in addition to other materials 
permitted for import In 
coliroa 4 . 


(1) G. P Sheets/Strlps/Coils 
will be allowed (25% 
against exports of Ice mak¬ 
ing machines/plants only 
within the overall valueof 
the licenoo, 



236 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


IV. ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT 
AND APPARATUS— contd. ^ 

A.22 Power equipment Including alternators, 

generators, transformers, switch gear 
and control gear, motors, rectifiers and 
power capacitors t— 

(1) Rotating electrical equipment . 20 % 


(II) Transformers , . . .30% 


(HI) Switch gear, control gear, recti- 10% 
tiers, power capacitors and lightning 
arreaton. 

(In) Electrical contacts made of Plat!- 3% 
num/palladium/silver alloy or 
Silver/bimetal contacts. 


A.33 Dry batteries and Storage batteries s~ 

(!) D;y battrriM . . . .23% 

(II) Storaso batteries . . 30 % 


A.24 (i) Aluminium Conductors steel reta- 50% 

forced (ACSR). 


(H) All Aluminium Conductors (AAQ, 60 % 


(a) Hot rolled dynamograde 
electrical steel sheets/Coils, 
(ft) Copper wire bars/Wire rods, 
(e) Winding wires/strips (50%). 
(a) Cold rolled grain oriented 
electrical steel sheets/Coils. 
(ft) Copper wire bars/wire rods, 
(e) Winding wires/strips (50%). 

(d) Transformer OH. 

(e) Carbon Steel Plates. 

(a) Copper sheets/strlps as In 
Appendix 3. 

(b) Transformer OH. 

(e) CRCA Sheets/Strips (10%) 

(a) Platinum. 

(b) Palladium 

(c) Copper wire bars, 

(i) Nickel virgin‘scrap. 

(*) Cadmium Oxide. 


),1) Against export of sparest 
components of the expo.S 
products In Column 2, 
import replenishment will 
be allowed at the rate 
mentioned In column 3 
and the materials per¬ 
mitted for Import will be 
those apearing In Appendl- 
diccs 3 and 5 excluding elec¬ 
tronic Items. Please see para 
8 of ‘General Conditions* in 
this Appendix 

(2) Against exports covered bjr 
SI. No. A. Z2(iv) import 
replenishment applica¬ 
tions should be accom¬ 
panied by the declaration 
of the manufacturer of 
the product exported 
as to the item(s) in Col. 
4 used In its manufact¬ 
ure. The said list will 
be attached to the licence 
r hen it Is issued. 


(a) Zinc. 

(a) Lead of 99.97% and above 
purity. 

(ft) Antimony. 

(a) Zinc. 1 

(ft) High carbon steel V- (10 %), 

wire rods. J 

(e) Aiumlnium/Alumln’icai rodt. 

<a) AicnjioSuua//Unrnlnluri rods. 


A.23 Insulated Aluminium Cables and power 30% (a) lead of 99 97% and above 

cables with aluminium conductors 600/ purity (10%). 

IKK) volts and above (1,0 K.V and above). (ft) Aluminium 'Aluminium rods 


A.26 Insulated Copper Cables, all typ« |— 

(/) Dry ror* telephone cables/coaxial 30 % 

cablet, 

<«) Others .... 60% 

A,27 Electric tans (including fans in CKD 20% 

condition). 


(o) Copper wire bars/wlre rods. 

(ft) Lead of 99.97% and above 
purity (20%). 

(a'. Copper wlrs bars/wlre rods. 

(b) Lead ol 99.97% and above 
purity (20%). 

(e) Ti* (10%). 


(1) Import of bearings appea¬ 
ring In Appendix 2-Part B 
with SKF or equivalent 
Nos.6201, 6202, 6203, 6204 
and 6206 as used (one 
or two In a fan as the case 
may he) will be allowed 
within overall replenish ment 
against export o r electrto fans. 


(a) Copper wire bars/wlre rods 
(ft) 

M Dynamo giads electrics) 
stee* sheets/coUs 
(J) Bsariegs 'a Appetdlx 3 

( 20 %). 



' [rmrl —$3 1 ] 


w TT^rrcr amTHTOT 


237 


APPENDIX 17— Contd, 


1 2 3 4 3 


IV. ELECTRICAL MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT 
AND APPARATUS— concld. 

A.28 Electrical Mring accessories including 10% 

electric sy-itches. 


A.31 Tubular sheath type beating elements 10% 

V. ELECTRONIC AND TELECOMMUNICATION 
EQUIPMENT, INSTRUMENTS. APPARTIJ'! AND 
APPLIANCES 

A.35 All Electronic Items/oqulpuent /system*/ 20% 

coinponcnK including Tape Deck Mecha¬ 
nism, computei systems/pcripherals/Digi il 
watches, clocks and time piece* 


A37 Permanent Magnets S(?% 

VL MACHINE TOO JB 

A.4d MacitStsyloch, nil tyjic^aodi,teats*8'' 

f uapentuta thcf-ml. 


(a) Copper witc bars/wire rods. 

(b) Zinc. 

(c) Eleciiical steel sheets/coils. 


(a) Heat resistant stainless 
steel sheets. 


(а) Special production aida for 
electron ics Industry, namely 
Wrapping and tja-wrap¬ 
ping tools, aligning tools, 
desoldenng took, l.C. Ex¬ 
tractor (20 %). 

(б) Passive components (Resls- 
tors/capaoitora of all kinds) 
(30%) 

(c) Active components (Tran¬ 
sistors, diodes, other semi¬ 
conductor devices, valves, 
integrated Circuits) (30 %). 

(J) Any other (ferns of electro¬ 
nic components and raw 
materials, appearing In 
Appendloe* 3 and 3 
In the Import—Export 
Policy used In ihs manu¬ 
facture of electronics Items 
0 >%). 


(p) N'tkS!. 


(1 ) For the purpose of calcula¬ 
ting the REP benefits again¬ 
st exports of micro-switches 
with silver/silver alloy con¬ 
tacts, the licensing authority 
will exclude the value of 
silvei from the f.o.b. value 
of export product. The 
balanoe f.o.b. value of 
exports will only be 
eligible for REP benefits, 
if othorwijo admissible 
under the policy. Applica¬ 
tions should tw accompa¬ 
nied by a Chartered 
Accountant or a Govern¬ 
ment Laboratory Certificate 
Indicating the quantity of 
silver content aud its value 
used Id the export product 
based on which the 
licensing authority will 
work out the REP entitle¬ 
ment after excluding the 
value of silver. It is clari¬ 
fied that if the exported 
Micro Switches with silver / 
silver alloy contacts con¬ 
tain more than 50% silver 
by weight, no REP benefit 
will be ^admissible thereof. 


(1) The Registering Authority 
for Cassettes/Cartridges, 
Pre-recorded Cassettes/ 
Cartridge* and Pre-recorded 
Video-Cassettes will be th« 
Plastics and Linoleum Ex¬ 
port Promotion Council. 

(2) Against tbe export of casie- 
ttes/cartridges, pre-record¬ 
ed cassettes/cartridgea, im¬ 
port of audio magnetic 
tapes, blank cassettes/car¬ 
tridges and parts thereof 
will be allowed without any 
face value restriction. 
Against the export of pre¬ 
recorded video cassettes. 
Import of video magnetic 
tape will be allowed with¬ 
out any face value restric¬ 
tion within the overall 
vxlue of ihs licence 

|3) Against the export of pro¬ 
fessional electronic equip¬ 
ment and Instruments, im¬ 
port replenishment will bs 
allowed at the rake »f 
30% 

(4) Import of picture lubes will 
be allowed only against 
«xport of Television sets. 


.a) Items In Appendices 3 and (1) Please aoe para 8 of 'Gene- 
9 excluding electronic Items :al Condltiuc/ In this 
and Iron and eteel items. Appendix. 




238 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17—Could, 


l a 3 4 s 


VL MACHINE TOOLS— conctd. 


(4) Electronic Item* in Appen¬ 
dix 3 excluding those 
covered by Entry Not. 609 
end 610 of Appendix 3 and 
tlto excluding the following 
item* covered by Entry No 
607 In Appendix 3 (10 %) 

l<) Audio magnetic tape* 

In reel*, cassettes, lumto 
roll*, hubs, cartridge* 
*od pan cokes and is 
any other form, exclud¬ 
ing 33 mm and 14 mm 
•prooketed i»p*». 

C II) TV tuner*. 

(c) Iron and Steel^ltcro* In Ap¬ 
pendix 3-PangA (13%) 


VU. HAND TOOLS AND SMALL TOOLS 

A.30 Hand Tool* Including drop forged hand 3% (a) Nick*), 

tool*. 


A. 31 


Small and Cutting Tool* I— 

(i) Cutting tool* wholly or partly mad* of 40% 
High speed iteeL 

(/I) Wood working law* 30% 


</«) Steel Flits , . 40% 


(t) High *i eel Heel flan, 
squares > n4 round* In any 
detail (b cA*:ob*h grade*). 

(*) High csibga (0.6% osi- 
bon and above) hardened 
and tempered steel strip* 
for saw bladae. 

(a) Profile* eng tcctlon* of 
carbon/ Alloy Steel. 


VID. INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, PUMPS 
AND COMPRESSORS 


AJfl 


Internal Combustion engine*, pump* and 13% 
compressors, all type*. 


(a) Items in Append! cat 3 
and 3 excluding t— 

(/) High speed steel*; 

(U) Stainless steel In any 
form; and 

( Ul ) Electronic Items In 
Appendices 3 and 3 


(b) Pig bon (10%). 


(1) Please sec para 8 of ‘General 
Conditions’ In this Appendix 
Import of Iron and steel 
Items covered by Item (a) 
In Column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 20% of the licence 
value within the value of the 
Homo*. 

(3) Against exports of spares/ 
components of the export 
product In column 2, 
Import replenishment will 
be allowed at the rate 
mentioned In Column 3 
and the material* permitted 
for import will be those 
appearing In Appendices 3 
and 3 (excluding electronic 
Items). Please see para 8 of 
Genera! Conditions' In this 
Append!*. 


(3) Against export* o( Pump 
set* and compressor* fitted 
with electric motor* u 
prim* mover* including 
monoblock pump. Impon 
replenishment * 1 20 % of the 
t.o.b. 7*1 ee of exports will 
he allowed. 






X. INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY 

A.64 (f) Industrial machinery, component end 13% (a) Item* In Appem-lees 3 (1) Please 'ire para 8 of 'Genera I 

•pare* thereof. and 3 excluding t— Conditions’ in this Appei. 

dix. Import of Iron and 
U) High speed steels; St eel items covered by item 

t/fi Stainless steel in any form; (a) in column 4 shall be 

iHI) Electronic Items; Bnd allowed only upto 50% of 

(It) Titanium/ Tltd-dum -,lloy. the licence value within the 

value of the licence 


;») Electronic iter/-. ir, Appen- (2) Against export of spares/ 
dU 3 excluding items components of the export 

covered by Uu.rj 609 ol product in column 2. 

Appendix 3 and also ex- import replenishment will 

dueling the following Hems be allowed at the rate 

covered by Entry do. 607 mentioned In column 3 

lu Appendix 3 (TJ%) i— and the materials permitted 

<0 Audio magnetic tapes .n will be those appearing 

reels, cassettes, jumbo rolls, in Appendices 3 and 5 
hobs, cartridges and pan (excluding electronic items)- 

coke*, and m any other Please see para 8 of 

form, ezcUi ling 33 mm and -General conditions’ in this 

1<5 mm sprocketed tapes. Appendix. 

(«) TV tuner*. 

(Iff) Integrated oircuit*. 

((/) Boiler* i— 


(a) For power generation 10 K (*) Mere In Appendices 3 and (1) Plci-,e see para 8 of‘General 

3 excluding Tlt..pium/lJta- Conditions in this Apr.cn- 
niurn alloys and electronic dix. Import of Iron and Steel 
Items. items covered by item (a) 

(6) Electronic items In Appcn- in Column 4 shall be allowed 
dix 3 excluding those only upto 20% of the licence 
covered by entry No 609 value within the value of the 
end 610 in Appendix 3 and licence. 

.“l*o excluding the following 
Items coveted by Entry 
Mo. 6CT lu Apptodlx 31— 


0 Audio magnetic tape in 
ieels, cassettes, jumbo <oll», 
*ubi. cartridge) 'id pan 
-alee*, and Sn any other 
form, oioludlpg 33 mm i>od 
iS mm sprocketed 'tap..-, 

<f<) TV taxers. 

(T0 Integrated circuit. 


(*) Other* . 


XL MOTOR VEHICLES AND AUTOMOBILE 
ANCTLLARIES 

X.T0 (1) Passenger cart, track*. ***i!o« wagon*. 

bases, tempo t, Joe pi, motor-cycle*, 
eoooten, moped*, three wboelen end 
other motor vehicle* Includln* traco**. 


te) flame es Item (a) against (1) Same ns Column .1 Remark 
tl. No. A.64(l) above, (1) against S). No. A 64( : j 

above. 


E (*) ffcstut t» Appendices 3 
fcv.d J excluding i~ 

ft) ilsoh speed irteeli; 

(/I) iteoHa any form; 

j/nS 

(in) Eleciroalc irj>n*. 

(A) RlrcCrotdc Iceiu# In Appen¬ 
dix a excluding items 
coveted by Entry No 609 
la Appendix 3 and also 
isxIadlBi (be following 
btri-i oovered by Entry 
vs vtri I i Appeadii I 
dXJ.i- 


(1) Please see pa m 8 of 'General 
Conditions’ in this Appen¬ 
dix. Import of Iron and Steel 
Items Covered by item (a) 
in Column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 50% of the 
licence value within the vain# 
of the licence. 

(2) Against export* of spares/ 
component* of the export 
products other than 
Radiator* In column 2. 
import replenishment will 
be allowed at the rate 
mentioned In column 3 


[Part i—See. 1] 


240 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX ll—Conld. 


1 2 3 4 3 


XL motor vehicles and automobiles 

ANCILLARIES — cone Id. 


(it) 

Rear Axle Shafts. 

4tf% 

(Hi) 

Radiators 

30% 


(0 Audio magnetic tapes in 
reels, cassettes, jumbo rolls, 
hubs, cartridges and pan 
cakes, and in any other 
form excluding 33 mm and 
16mm strocketed tape. 

(//) TV tuners. 

(til) Integrated circuits. 

(a) Forged quality Carbon Steel 
(with less than 0.6% Carbon) 
in blooms, billets and bars. 

(a) Solder Wire. 

( b ) Tome sheets/plates. 

(c) Copper/Brass strips/foils 
0.06 mm and above (73 %). 


(1) Please see para 8 of ‘Genera! 
Conditions In this Append!) * 
Import of Iron and Steel 
Items covered by item (a) 
in Column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 20% of the 
licence value witnin the value 
of the lioeoce. 


A 71 Electrically driven two wheeler and three 30 % (a) Item* In Appendices 3 and 

wheeler scooter*. 9 excluding 


(/) High Speed Steels; 

(II) Stainless steel in any form; 
and 

(III) Electronic items. 


and the materials permit¬ 
ted for import will be those 
appearing in Appendices 3 
and 3 (excluding electronic 
items). Please see para 8 of 
‘General conditions* in this 
Appendix. 


XII. RAILWAY EQUIPMENTS 


AH 


(!) Railway Coache* and Wagons tociu- 20% 
ding Tram cars. 


(II) Railway electric signalling equipment !2% 


(a) Carbon L eel Plates/Sheets. 

(b) hearings In Appendix 3 

( 20 %)). 

(a) Cooper wire bars (80%) 

(b) Carbon Steel (30%) 


(I) Against exports of «|>ares/ 
components of the export 
product in column 2, 
import replenishment will 
be allowed at the rate 
mentioned In column 3 
and the materials permit¬ 
ted for Import will be thosa 
appearing In Appendices 
3 and 3 (excluding 
electronic Items). Pleas* 
see para 8 of ’Gen¬ 
ital Conditions’ In this 
Appendix. 


XIII, WATER TRANSPORT EQUIPMENT 


A.78 

Water Transport Equipment 

20% 

(a) Carbon Steel Plates (50%) 

(JQ Ship building quality steel. 

A. 79 

Fibreglass reinforced boats 

. . 10% 

(a) Synthetic Rasim. 


XIV. LIGHT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 
OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURES 


AJ1 


(/) Bicycles, stl types (other than special 3 
models and Sports Light Roadster), I 

bicycle components and accessories; [ 

Bicycle Rickshaws and their components/ ! 

,acc ssorics all type V 23% 

(It) Bicycle* Special Models 'nolndiog Sports 1 
Light Roadster (SLR model) J 


(а) Carbon steal iheets/itripe/ 

ooils (40%). 

(б) Spokes and nipples (10%). 
(c) Electroplating salts and 

brlghtenen. 

(<fl Nfckel/S. Nickel. 

(#) Tinplate leoonds/eeooa- 
darlw (9 %). 


(1) Additional Import replenish¬ 
ment at 2|% off the f.o.b, 
value of exports will N 
allowed for Import of the 
following Hems against ex¬ 
ports of Bicycles Light 
Roadster (SLR model) and 
other Special Model* v- 
(I) Tyres aad tubsii 
an Mine* 



[*tft I—i] 


*TFfT TT ™ : SWTJirW 


241 


APPENDIX 17- Contd. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


3 


XIV. LIGHT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 

OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURES— comd. 


A.84 (/) Wick stove* made of bras* . .10% 

(ff) Gas Mantel* 13% 

A.83 Pleasure Lamps. Stoves and blow lamp* 30 % 


A.8T Hosiery and knitting machine needle* 6 % 

A.89 Petroleum’meterlng and dispensing pump* 6% 

A.90 Power transmission line, hardware tools and 

accessories.6 % 

A.93 (!) Photographic Camara 6 % 


(H) Cinematographic equipment lnchiUi'» 1J% 
cinematographic sound and project on 
equipment, component? and spares 
thereof. 


(/) Bronze Powder (2| %). 

(S) Zinc (10%) 

ih) Reflectors for bicycles. 

(/) Bicycle dynamo sett Inclu¬ 
ding lamps (10%). 

(J) Packing materials, viz. 
Low density polyethylene 
moulding powder (10%), 
Kraft paper, 

(k) Copper wire bars (10%). 

(/) Free cutting steel wire rods. 

(m) ERW Carbon Steel Pipes 
and Tubes. 

(n) 12 V gas filled bulbs. 


(a) Zinc. 

(a) Thorium Nitrate with 1 % 
Cerium Nitrate 

(а) Copper wire bar* (70^3, 

(б) Zinc (30%). 

(c) Tin (3 %). 

(a) Lead of99.97 % and above 
purity (5 %). 

(*) Bronze Powder (3%). 


(а) Electroplating salts and 
brlghteners. 

(б) Packing material. 

(e) CRCA sheets. 

(a) Zisc 

(a) Brass strips, 

(4) Leas head screw. 

(e) Hexagonal nuts. 

(d) Threadod Pin (Hollow Pin/ 
Dowel Pie. 

(*) Stainless steel rods. 

(< ) M.S. Rods/Free cutting steel 
( 0 ) Items in Appendices 3 
and 3 


((if) Multiple speed hubs 
alloy bubs, derailleurs, 
and accessories, coaster 
bubs; and 

(iv)Mlgh Carbon Galvanised 
cord of 1.0 mm to 4.3 
mm. This will be sub¬ 
ject to the condition 
that for each such 
bicycle exported not 
more than one pair cl 
tyres and tubes, one 
pair of rims and one 
multispeed hub only will 
be allowed for Import. 

(2) If accessories are exported se¬ 
parately and not along with 
the bicycle etc. covored by 
this SI. No,, Import of only 
those Items out of column 
4, as are declared by the 
exporter concerned to have 
been used in the product 
exported, will be allowed. 
The list of Items should 
accompany the application. 
Please also see pm a 8 of 
'General Conditions’ is 
this Appendix. 

(3) Import of Bicycle Dynamo 
sets including lamps will 
be allowed on net to 
net basis only against 
export of Bicycles with 
Dynamo seta Including 
lamps. 


(1) Against the exports of 
burners, import replenish¬ 
ment at 5% will be allo¬ 
wed for import of items 
appearing In Appendices 3 
and 3 excluding electronic 
Items, Please see para 8 
of General Condition*’ la 
this appendix. 


] (20%). 

(1) Please see para 8 of General 
Conditions in this Appon- 
dix. Import of Iron and 
Steel itoms covered by 
Item (a) in column 4 shall 
be allowed only upto 
15% of the licence value 
within the value of tb« 
licence. 



242 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

APPENDIX 17— 'Conld, 


i 


2 


3 


4 


3 


XIV. LIGHT ENGINEERING GOODS AND ALL 

OTHER ENGINEERING MANUFACTURE!— Concld. 


A.94 Sowing machines 8% (a) Pig Iron/Carbon steel shecti (]) 

(30%) 

(6) Electroplating salts and 
brighteners. 

S Bronze Powder (50%). 

) Free cutting steel (23%). 

(?) Alloy steel wire rods 


&JI 

ted initial valves, all types 

1051 

(a) Copper wire bar* (10%). 

(4) Tin. 

( e ) Zinc (30%). 

A.94 

Soap fas wests (metallic) . 

20% 

(a) Phosphor Bronx? wire. 

(4) Brass strips. 

A. 91 

Measuring tapes, tape rule*, all types 

20% 

(a) Copper wire bsr• (TO %). 




(6) Zinc (30%). 

(e) Acrylic paint. 




(d) C R Steel Strips not exceeding 




100 mm width. 

A.99 

Umbrella!. 

20% 

(a) Umbrella rib* tnd compo¬ 



nent*. 




(4) Waterproof Nylon 




Umbrella cloth 




U) Nickel. 

A. 100 

(4) Watches excluding dlghel watches 

6% 

(a) Stainless steel strip* 

(4) Lubricating oil. 


(tt) docks and Tim* plooea excluding 

<1% 

(a) Electroplating sails. 


digital docki eod Tim* piece*. 


(4) CRCA sheets (10%) 

(e) Lubricating oil. 

A. 101 

Timing chalM. 

30% 

(a) CRCA strips not exceeding 



100 mm width. 


Against exports of spares/ 
components of the export 
product In Co). 2, import 
replenishment will be alio- 
wed at the rate mentioned 
in col umn 3 and the materials 
permitted for import will be 
those appearing In Appen- 
dloos 3 and 3 excluding elec¬ 
tronic Items. Please see para 
8 of ‘General Conditions' in 
this Appendix. 


(4) Hardened and ttmptt*) 
oarboa steel strip*. 

(?) Alloy pin rods. 


XV. MISCELLANEOUS 

&.102 Other engineering products not Qliewhor* 7% 

specified. 

•. CHEMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS 


I. CHEMICALS AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS 
B.l Inorganic Gwmlcah i 

B.l. 1 Borax and Boric Actd .... 90% 

B.l. I Inorganic eke mica Is based on Copper. 50 fig 

Lend. Zinc and Mercnry. 


(o) Items appearing In Appen- (11 Please see para ? of ‘Qene- 
dloes 3 and 3 excluding ml Condition*’ In this 
electronic Items. Appendix. 


Qtttrol IfoHi t 

(1) Import of Formic Add 
will not bo allowed whore 
Item* appearing In Appen¬ 
dix 3 or Appendix 3 are 
allowed with generic des¬ 
cription In Col 4 again*t 
the various prod acts. 


(a) Rctorii# (Crtsd* Sodiem 
Borate). 

(4) Colemanlt* fCred* Cal¬ 
cium Borate) 

(a) Copper wire bars. 

(4) Lead. 

(*) Zinc. 

(d) Mercery 


Only those items from Col 4 
will be allowed for Import 
a* are relaxant to the pro¬ 
duct exported. 




[*m I- 

-'Jl i] 

«TTCT TT rtepra : a(tTTHTOT 


APPENDIX 

17 — contd. 

1 

2 

3 


4 

CHEMICALS AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS-ConcW. 



B.1.4 

Other inorganic chemical* i- - 





(1) Bleaching powder (Stable) — 





(a) exported in Polyethylene car- 

10% 

W 

Polyethylene moulding 


boya/HDPE bag* (Polyethy¬ 
lene woven bags). 



powder (HDPB), 


(6) exported in steel drums 
(«) Hydrochloric Acid— 

13% 

(0) 

CRCA steei sheet* 24G(BP) 


(a) exported to Polyethylene car- 

10% 

(a) 

Polyethylene moulding 


boy*. 



powder (HOPE). 


(4) exported la steal drams 

13% 

(a) 

CRCA steel sheet# 18G (BP) 


(III) Sulphuric add .... 

6% 

(fl) 

Polyethylene moulding 

powder (HDPB). 




(4) 

Sulphur. 


(is) Titanium Dioxtd* (Anatax grads). 

10% 

(0) 

Sulphur. 


(s) Alums ...... 

6% 

(0) 

Sulphur. 


(rfj Aluminium Sulphate 


(0) 

Sulphur. 


(Alumina Ferric) 





(ph) Ferrous Sulphate (Technical) 


(0) 

Sulphur. 


(•III) Potassium permanganate . 

ion 

(0) 

Asbestos Qotb/l’olypropyle*' 
Biter cloth (23%). 




(4) 

CRCA Sheet* (75%). 


(lx) Sodium Thiosulphate (Pholagfaphle 

«% 

(0) 

Sulphur 


Qrade), 





U) Altunlalam eWorld# (Anhrdreue; 

<w% 

(a) 

AJnmlalam 

B.2 

Organic Chemicals i 




BJ.l 

(1) Hydroqnlaons .... 

lfK 

(0) 

AnlUna/Aallln* OU 


(It) Rubber chemical* .... 

84% 

(0) 

AalUne/AnlUne OU 

8.1. J 

Other organic chemicals i— 





(1) Acetic Acid 1* Polyethylene con- 

611 

(0) 

Polyethylene moaldlo* 


taincts. 



powder (HDPB). 


(II) AnlUna/AnilUl* OU 

20% 

<0) 

Sulphur. 




(4) 

Nitric Add. 


(W) Pantaanrthritol , 

UX 

(*) 

MethanoL 




(*) 

Packing materials rt<. 
LDPB/HDPB (2*%). 

BJ 

Miscellaneous chemicals and Chemical 





products Indudlna text!)* aoxilar'ss 
and preservative! t 




BJ.2 

Fluorocarbon cases (F.U. F,£2 and F.22). 

1*2 

(0) 

Fluorspar (Add gratia). 




(4) 

Sulphur. 




(e) 

Carbon tetrachloride (20 %). 




(<0 

Phosphorus pcntoxld* (20%) 




(a) 

Antimony metal (9%). 




if) 

Chloroform (20%). 

B.1.4 

Carboa black. 

3B 

(o) 

Packing Ma teria), trie., Kraft 
paper. 

B.3.3 

(1) Foundry Fioxss . . . . 

10% 

(0) 

Fluorspar (Add grade). 


(4) Sodium Borase/Caldani 
Bonita. 

(<f) Textile AaxUlariea ala., loaio. No»- JO a l») Alkyl Beneene/Dodecj-I 
loalc aad Cationic types incladlag Benzene (20%). 

tmulslflen aad ds-smolslflsn. (4) Vinyl Acataia Moarmsr 

(10%). 

(a) Lauryl Alcohol (3%). 

W) Dieynandiamlde (30%) 

(a) Cetosteryl Alcohol (20%) 

(/) Non—Ionic Detar sen ti (2U%) 

<«0 Abraslrs Lapping powdas, all typs* ? X a) p,l *a f eloth/bage 

P.1.4 f Ira Balaadna iaalapM JOB (a) Bthylaas Gljool 




244 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


3 


IL DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES 

Drugt ft Drug Intermediates (excluding 
cinchona febrifuge and all quinine salts 
and compounds in any form or tbelr 
tablets). 

B.ll Drugs and Drug intermediates j 


B.ll.l Drugs and Diug Intermediates, N.O.S. 13% 


(o) Unprocessed bulk drugs 
and chemicals appearing 
In Appendix 3 or 
Appendix S as have been 
actually used in the manu¬ 
facture i f product exported. 

(b) Packing materials viz., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils, Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 

(3%). 


(1) Registered exporters apply¬ 
ing for import replenishment 
licences against export of 

roducts covered by thl* 
I. No. should produce, with 
their import application, the 
original or a photostat copy 
of a valid Drugs Manufac¬ 
turing Licence of the manu¬ 
facturer of the goods ex¬ 
ported, 

(2) Import of Sodium Cyanido 
will not be allowed against 
the items appearing In 
Appendix 3 and Appendix 
3 allowed under generto 
entry In Col. 4 against 
export products falling 
under this S. No. 

(1) Please see para 8 of 'Gene¬ 
ral Conditions' in this 
Appendix. If Import 

application Is based on 
export of more than one 
product, the Ust of import 
items should be separate 
In respect of each export 
product, alongwlth the fob 
value of each export pro¬ 
duct. 


( 2 ) Only such of the bulk drugl 
which find a mention in the 
latest Indian Pharmacopoeia, 
the Pharmacopoeia of the 
United States of America, 
British pharmacopoeia, Bri¬ 
tish Pharmaceuticals Codex, 
the States Pharmacopoeia 
of Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, the National For- 
imdary of the United Staten 
of America, the Inter¬ 
national Pharmacopoeia, the 
Japanese Pharmacopoeia 
and such other drugs as 
are specially certified by tho 
Drugs Controller (India), 
and appearing In the manu¬ 
facturing licence Issued 
under the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act, 1940, (a* 
amended) will be eligible 
for Import replenishment 
licence against exports. If 
otherwise admissible 

(3) Finished formulations In 
dosage form for human and 
veterinary use such as la Wets, 
capsules. Injections, »kia 
ointments, drone, syrups, 
pessaries, granules, medical 
lozenges. Inhalers, pill*, 
medical aerosols, oral drop* 
liniments, lotions, tincture*, 
extracts, bulk pre¬ 
mites or blende formula- 
lien* purpose*, biological 



*fTTtf IPT TWW JmTSnTDT 


245 


[ml—a? 1] 


APPENDIX ll—Contd . 

1 2 3 4 3 

IL DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES— Contd. 


diagnostic (era appearing 
In tne manufacturing licence 
Issued to the manufacturers 
of the connected formula¬ 
tions under the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Act. 1940 (as 
amended) will be eligible 
for import replenishment 
licence against exports 
If otherwise admissible. 
However, tinctures/extracts 
of trees, barks, leave*, flo¬ 
wer seeds etc. used other 
than by the drugs Industry 
will not be entitled for 
export assistance under 
SI. No. B.ll.l- 

(4) Conditions laid down In 
Remark (2) above will not 
be applicable in respect of 
export of items Beta Pico- 
Line and Gamma Picoline. 


B.11.2 Ayurvedlo. Unanl and Sldha Medicines . 10% 


fa) Items mentioned in 
Appendices 3 and 3 
as have been used in 
the manufacture of product 
exported. 

(b) Packing materials, vh. emp¬ 
ty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card 
board cartons, kraft paper 
( 10 %). 


(1) Same as Remark (1) aga¬ 
inst SI. No. B.11.1. 

(2) Only such drugs as appear 
in the manufacturing licen¬ 
ce issued to the concerned 
manufacturer under the 
Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 
1940 (as amended) will be 
eligible for Import reple¬ 
nishment licence against 

X rts, If otherwise ad- 
ble. 


(3) Finished formulations In 
dosage form for human 
and veterinary use such as 
tablets, capsules, skin oint¬ 
ments, syrups, inhalers, 
pills, oral drops, lotions, 
tinctures, extracts, bulk 

f >remixes or blends appo&r- 
ng In the manufacturing 
licence Issued to manufac¬ 
turers of connected formu¬ 
lation under the Drugs 
and Cosmetics Act, 1940 
(as amended) will be eligi¬ 
ble for import replenish¬ 
ment iconcos against 
expon If olherwlso ad- 
missabic Ho waver, tinc- 
turev,./.'i*ct* of trees, 
braki leaves, flower seeds 
eju. .. jiher than by the 
drugs Industry will not be 
entitled for export assis¬ 
tance und-r <. No B.U.2. 


B.I1.3 Mercury based Drugs 3% (a) Resorcinol. 

( b ) Zinc Chloride, 

B.11.1' Amoxycflin Capsules 2J0 mg (Trlhydrate) 50% (a) Amoxycillin. 

(6) Packing materials, ni 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(3%) 



246 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


1 2 
!L DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES- 
8.11.? AmoxyclUIn Syrup 123 mg/3 ml 


B.l l.l Ampldllln Capsule* 230 mg/300 mg 


II 119 Ampldllln Syrup 123 mg/3 ml 


B 11.10 Amplclllfn In). In 230 mg/300 mg 


B.ll.l I ' Chloramphenicol tablets/Capsule* 250 
300 mg. 


B.ll.l2 Chloramphenicol Palmltaic Syrup 


B.l 1.13 Doxycyelloe Capsules 100 mg 


8.11.14 Htbambutol « bless. 


APfENDIX 17 —Coma. 


3 4 

Corttd. 

. 30 % (a) Amoxycillin. 

(6) Packing materials, r/*., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils, Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(3%). 

30% (i>) Ampidlin trlbydrflte sng 

anhydrous. 

14) Packing materials, etc., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, Icraft paper 
(3%). 

40% (c) Ampldllln trihydrale and 

anhydrous. 

(4) Packing materials, viz., 
empty phials/bottles, alum) 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraftpaper 
( 5 %) 

30% (a) Ampldllln trihydrate and 

anhydrous. 

(4) Packing materials, til., 
empty phiale/bottlee, aluml- 
alnm foils, Polyethylens 
moulding powder, card 
board cartons, Icraft paper 
(3%). 

30 % (a) Chloramphenicol powder. 

(6) Packing materials. Tlx., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card 
board cartons, Icraft paper 
( 5 %). 


40 % (a) Chloramphenicol Palmltate. 

(4) Packing materials, viz., 
empty phlals/bottlea, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board oertons, kraft paper 
(3%). 


. 30% (a) Doxycycllne base/its hyd¬ 

ra te/byclate/hydrochlorlde/ 
Calcium Complex. 

(*) Packing materials, vlt, 
empty phlals/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils, Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(3%). 


• 40% (a) EibambwtoL 

(3) Packing material*. Tie. 
empty phlals/bottles. alumi- 
•lam fofh, Polyethylene 
tnoa’-dlag powder, card¬ 
board Mitow*, kraft peps* 







[eft I—gr i] 


vim w WlsT: araraiTW 


247 


1 


2 


AfPENDIX 1?— Coma. 


3 4 


3 


II. DRUGS AND DRUG INTERMEDIATES— Ooneld. 


B.11.13 Tetracyollne i— 30 % 

Tableti/captulm 230 mt/300 mi. 


B.11.1C Oontamydne In). 40 mg/ml, 80 mg/ml, 30% 
20 mg/ml (Pediatric), 140 tng/rol, 

280 mg/2tnl. 


B.11.1T Tetracycline Byrap 123 mg. 40% 


B.ll 18 Erythromydn Ethyl Succinate Granulee/ 30% 
Estolate/Stearate/Suspcnslos 100 mg/ 

123 mg/300 mg/3 ml. 


B.12 Medidnal Pluto aad Herbs ... 2% 


IU. DYES AND DYE INTERMEDIATES 


(a) Tetracycline base/hydro- 
chloride. 

(4) Packing materials, viz., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, krafl paper 
( 3 %). 

(a) Gentamyclne Sulphate. 

(4) Packing materials, viz., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils, Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(3%). 

(j) Tetracycline base/hol. 

(4) Packing materials, tiz., 
empty phlals/bottlea, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 

( 3 %). 

(a) Erythromycin (base), ery¬ 
thromycin estolate and 
erythromycin stearate. 

(4) Packing materials, riz.., 
empty phials/bottles, alumi¬ 
nium foils. Polyethylene 
moulding powder,, card¬ 
board cartons, kraft paper 
(3%). 

(a) Packing Material, vis.. 
LDPB. 


B 16.1 


It.! 6.2 


Synthetic organic dyes Including organic 1 
pigments. ! 


Dye Intermediates. 


i 


isa 


(a) Dye Intermediates and che¬ 
micals in Appendix 3 
and used In the manu¬ 
facture of the product 
exported. 

(b) Anthranlllo Add. 

(cj Triohlorobenzene. 

(</) 1-Amino anthraqulnone. 

(e) 2-Anthraqulnone Sulphonlc 
add—Sodium Salt. 

(/) 1-Chloroanthraquinone. 

Or) 1-3 Dlamlnoanthraqulnono. 
(h) 2-6 Dlamluo anthraqulnone. 
( I) Diethyl Meta amlnophenol. 
(/) 2 I 3 Dlohloro NItro Ben¬ 
zene. 


(1) In the case of Item (a) la 
Column 4, please see pant 

8 of ‘General Conditions' 
In this Appendix. 

(2) Import of Alpha Naphthv- 
lamlne under Item (a) Ca 
Column-4 will be allowed 
only upto 10% of the 
licence value within the 
overall value of the licence. 

(3) Import of ltem(q) 2i4 
Dlnitrochloro benzene la 
Col- 4 will be allowed only 
against export of Sulphur 
black covered by Export 
product In Col. 2. 


(4) Aniline CM1 (3%). 

(l ) Naphthlonlo acId/Sodlum 
Napbthlonate. 

(m) Bronze Powder (3%). 

(a) Ortho Dichloro benzene. 

(o) Sodium Nitrite (3%). 

(i>) N i N DlmethylanUlne (3%). 
(a) 2i4 Dlnitrochloro benzene, 
(r) Paranltrotoluene. \ 

(i) Orthonltrotoluene / 

(i ) Packing materials, viz., 
HDPB, LDPB, 

Kraft paper. C.R.C.A. 
theota, tinplate (20%). 

(u) FilteJ Cloth (23%) 



248 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. I] 


APPENDIX 1? — Coma 


l 


2 


3 


4 


3 


t\\ PESTICIDES AND FORMULATIONS— 

B.17.2 Zinc Phosphide or other Zino-based formu- 20% 
ladon viz., Zlnch. 

rt.17.3 Insectiddes, Pesticides, Weedicides, Roden- 13% 

ticides (formulations and technical mate¬ 
rial). 


B18 Teitapheno .... 13% 


V. TOILETRIES AND PERFUMERIES 

B20.1 Agarbatties and dkoop 10% 


B.20.2 Toilet soaps, laundry soaps, medicated 6% 

soaps and Industrial soaps. 


(oj Zinc. 


(j) Insecticides Including pestl- (l) Please see para 8 o< 
ddea and Weed ieides (Tech 'Oeneral Conditions’ In 
nical) which are Included In this Appendix. 

Appendix 3 but excluding 
those prohibited for use 
under Insecticide* Act. 

(a) Camphene, 


(a) Hydroxy citronolkl 
(A) lonone 100%. 

(c) Aurantlne, 

(rf) Terpeneol (10%). 

(*) phenyl Acetic add. 

( f) Bomeol/Bomeol Acetate. 

(_g) Eugenol Acetate. 

(A) Oeranlol. 

(1) Qetaalol Acetate, 

(/) Tcrpenyl Acetate (10%) 

(fc) YaraYara 

(l) Citronellal pure 

(m) Mixture* of Od»riierrous 
substances/Mfetures of resi* 
nolds(10%) 

(n) Packing material, viz., 

Glassine paper,Transparent 
celluloBo paper (23%). 

(a) Vanillin (2*%). 

(p) Mnskambrettee(10%), 

(a) Crude Palm oil. ( 1 ) Within the overall REP 

entitlement admissible in 
column 3, a manufaturer- 
exporter obtaining REP 
licence on bis own exports 
may be allowed Palm Stea- 
rine through State Trading 
Corporation subject to the 
condition that the material 
shall be used in his own 
factory only, for the manu¬ 
facture of toilet soap, laun¬ 
dry soap medicated soap 
or indust, ia* soap. The 
manufacturer exporter wan¬ 
ting to have this item will 
be required to indicate the 
value thereof In his Import 
application, within the over¬ 
all admissible REP entitle¬ 
ment to enable the licen¬ 
sing authority to issue REP 
Release Order for Palm 
Steartne on STC. The 
Release Order thus granted 
shall be non-transfora blc. 
Where the exporter is not 
himself the manufacturer 
of the product exported, 
and Palm Steartne Is sought 
to be obtained within the 
overall entitlement admis¬ 
sible In Column 3, the 
exporter conoemed, while 
applying for Import rep- 



WTHprcr; sptrsrnvT 


[»mr I—fr i] 


249 


l 


AfPENDtS 17— Contd. 

2 3 4 


3 


TOILETRIES AND PERFUMERIES— Conid 


B.20.3 Synthetic Detergent! 




"4204 Dentifrices 


»0^ 


D 20.7 Scouring powder 




B.20.8 Porfomery compound, Attars, Synthetic 9% 
essential oils and flavouring essences. 


Jonlshraent licence, will also 
furnish a declaration giving 
the name and address of 
the manufacturer whose 
product was actually ex¬ 
ported, and stating that the 
REP Release Order may be 
Issued in the name of thet 
manufacturer, giving the 
value for which such REP 
Release Order may be 
issued, within the overall 
admissible REP entitle¬ 
ment Upon such declara¬ 
tion. the REP Release 
Oruer for Palm Stearlne 
will be Issued In the name 
of the manufacturer con 
corned with a condition 
that the Release Order shall 
be non-traruferablo and the 
Imported material shall be 
used In the Release Order 
Holder's factory only, for 
the manufacture of the 
toilet soap, laundry soap, 
medicated soap or Indus¬ 
trial soap. 


(a) Linear Alkyl Ben rent. 

(b) Packing material, rh.. LDPB, 

HOPE. CRCA sheets 
(30%). 

(e) STPP. 

(a) Dtcalclum Phosphite. 

(*) Tin plate westo/waste (30 %) 

(e) Sodium Lauryl sulphate 
(3%). 

(a) Linear Alkyl Benzene. 

(M Packing materials, vi*,, 

LDPB, HDPB, CRCA 
ihsets 130%). 

(a) Oeranlol, (1) In »ho case of Item (k) in 

1*1 lonone 100%. Col. 4, please tee para 8 

(c) Methyl lonone. of 'General Conditions' In 

(d) Terpeneol (15%). *hli Appendix. 

Is) VsMver Oil. 

(/) Perfnmary Grade Bottles. 

(.») Terpenyls Aoetnts (1301. 

(ft) Vetiver Acetate. 

it) Parafia liquid. 

(/) Saffron. 

(4)J Any other item appearing 
la Appendix 3 
( 20 %). 

(/} Math amhrettee (20 W 

lm) Vanillin (J%), 


B.20.9 Hair Oils, perfumed and Hair Groomlas 6% C«3 Liquid Paraffin. 

(b) Hydroxy CltroaeHal. 
£o) Geraaio), 

(d) Terpeneol, (30 %) 
'*) lonone pnre 100%, 


38 01/85—17. 



250 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1 1—Conta. 


V. TOILETRIES AND PERFUMERIES— Ccncld. 


0-20,10 Cosmetics and Toiletries, N.O.S. 


> 0 % 


(a) Micro crystalline Wax. 

(k, Peart eisencv, (30 %). 

(e) other Rems nppcarlig 
i* Appendix 3 or 
Appendix 5 as have 
been used in the manufac¬ 
ture of the product ex- 
portod. 

(i 0 Tltanlom dioxide. 

(a) Packing mate riels ir. elud¬ 
ing specialised glass bottles 
and containers, LDPB/ 
HOPE, applies tors, mirrors. 


(1) A* for cosmetics, only such 
products as are manufactu¬ 
red under a llocnce i siued 
under tbe Drugs and Cos¬ 
metics Act, 1940 will be 
eligible for Import replenish¬ 
ment licences against ex¬ 
port*. 

(2) In the oase of item (c) in 
Col. 4, please see para 8 
of ‘General Conditions’ in 
this Appendix. 

(3) Exports o' cosmetics In 
retail or bulk packing will 
qualify for Import reple¬ 
nishment. 


fl.20.11 

Hydrogenated Castor Oil 

3% 

(a) CRCA Sheets. 

(1.20.12 

De-hydrated Castor Oil. 

3 % 

(a) CRCA Sheets, 

03 Polyethylene Monldlng 

Powder (High density). 

B. 20.13 

Tine 5Jndecvkc.fi le , . 

. <s% 

(a) Zinc. 




(A) CRCA Shoets/Polysthvlene 
Moulding Powdtr (Low 
Density) (40%). 

(<) Citric Add. 

B.20.14 

Heptal Dchyds 

6% 

(а) CRCA Sheets (20%). 

(б) Polyethyleno Moulding Po¬ 
wder (High density) (40%). 

<c) Citric Add. 

B.20.J3 

Fatty Adds,'Fatty Amines. 

20% 

(o) Palm Oil. ) ran vi 

(b) Copra/Cooanut oil. J ( /o) ' 

(e) Vanadium Pentoxlde (cata¬ 

lyst grade) (25%). 

(</) CRCA Sheets (10%). 

(a) HDPE Moulding Powder. 

(/) a trie Add. 

B.22 

(0 Natural essential oils 
(it) Blended tosa oil 

■ -is 

(a) Tin plate waste/w&sts. 

(a) Terpcneol. 

B.23 

Fluoride Chemicals. 

33% 

(a) Fluorspar (Add grade). 

(b) Sulphnr. 

(r) Titanium dioxide (3%). 


VI. PAINTS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS 


Gtotral Notu r— 


B.31 


(1) Wherever against the ex¬ 
port of paints and allied 
products falling under this 
Sub Group Tin Plate Is 
allowed as packing ma¬ 
terial, Import of tin plate 
waste/waste will be allowed 
upto 23% within the 
percentage allowed for 
packing materia] against 
each export product within 
the overall value of the 
REP licence. 


Paints, varnishes and enamels (excluding 
synthetic enamels based on polyester). 


23% (») Cadmium red (20%) (1) Import of Pentaerythritol 

(A) Napthcnic acid. will be allowed only against 

(e) Cobalt acetate. AJkyd resin based paints. 

(<f) Polyamide Resins (20 %). 

(e) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
Grade). 

(/) Vinyl acetate monomer (10%). 



(*mrl—trr 1) 


*1! <t«i WT 3.1'JI'ta XHTTHTTW 


251 


AFFENDIX VJ -Conta 


3 


4 


4 


VI. PAINTS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS— eontd 


(g) Packing materials viz., Tin 
plate/Tin plate waste 
waste/Tin free steel/CRCA 
sheets or coils (8 %). 

(4) Maleic Anhydride (10%). 

(!) PhthaUc Anhydride (3%), 
(/) Pantaerythritol (23%). 

(A) Carbon Blank. 

(/) Methyl Methacrylate Mon¬ 
omer (30%). 


8.32. 

Lacquers Including Nltro Cellulose Lacquers 23 % 

(a) Same as Items (a) to (f) 
against S. No. B.31. 

(ft) Packing materials fit. Tit* 
plate, CRCA sheets (8%), 

B.33 

Synthetic enamels based on polyester 

30% 

(a) Packing materials, w». Tla 
plate and CRCA shorts 

(7%). 




(ft) Butyl tltanata (20%). 

(?) Cresyllc add (30%). 

(tf) Monoetbylene Glyool (10%). 

B 34 

Distempers Including Cement paint* 

10% 

(a) Same as Items ( 0 ) to (f) 
against S. No. B.31 
(ft) Packing materials tIt. Tin 
plate St CRCA sheets 


( 20 %). 

B 33 (I) Napthanats drieri 40% ( 0 ) NapthJonlo Acid. 

(ft) Lead (10%). 

(c) Zinc (10%). 

(</) Cobalt Acetate (20%). 

(«) Tlnplate/CRCA sheets (23 %) 


B 3(5 


(II) Ootoate driers 


13% 


Synthetic resins and adhesives based os 20% 
synthetic resins and synthetic hardeners. 


(a) Lead. 

(A) Zinc. 

(cj Cobalt acetate. 

(a) Tlnplate/CRCA sheets (23%), 


(a) 


(ft) 

(c) 


(d) 


Vinyl acetate monomer (10%) (/) Import of Ethyl Acrylate 

Monomer and Butyl Aery- 
will be 


Soyabean oO. 

Packing materials ?(»., Tin¬ 
plate and CRCA sheets 

formaldehyde. 


late Monomer 
allowed only against ex¬ 
port of Acrylic baaed 
resins 


[e) Maldc Anhydride (10%). 

(/) Ethyl acrylate monomer (5%). 
(g) Butyl Acrylate Monomer 
( 10 %) 

(A) PhthaUc Anhydride (5%). 


9.3T 

Chrome pigments 

B,38 

Prussian Blue 

B.39 

Ultramarine Bine . 

8.40 

Aluminium powder and paste . 

B.41.1 

Zinc Oxide . 

B.41.2 

Red lead and litharge, white lead 

B 42 

Inorganic Pigments NOS 


15% (a) Zinc. 

(ft) Lead 

30% (a) Potassium Ferrocymnlds 

10 % (a) Sulphur. 

50 % (a) Aluminium 

80°/ ( 3 ) Zico. 

80% to) Lead. 

6% (£.) Titanium Dioxide (Rutu* 

Grade). 

(ft) Packing material tit.. Tin¬ 
plate and CRCA sheets (50%) 



252 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ■ EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX n—Ldmd, 


1 

2 

3 


4 

VI. PAINTS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS- -Contd 




8.43 

Printers ink 

H“i 

Ilf) 

ritanluro Dfoxlti# (RutU* 
Grade). 




yb) 

Bronze powder (3%) 

Carbon Black (3%) 




ie) 


Rubbing con pound 

6% 

(a) 

Mlcrocryttalllno wax. 

a.4s 

Boot Poll'S ...... 

HZ 

(a) 

Micro crystalline Wax; 
Paraffin Wax. 




(*) 

Tin plate rvaite/waste (80%) 


Wax Polish. 

34 % 

<o) 

Mtoroorystalllne wax 




(ft) 

Fin plate waste;waste (80%) 

B 47 

Poster colour* Including artist colours 

12*% 

(a) 

Titanium dioxide (Rutllo 




(ft) 

grade) 

Bronze powder (50 %) 




(c) 

Cadmium red, yellow 




id) 

Carbon Black (3%). 

1W9 

Leather Pigment Flnlahw 

6% 

(a) 

Casein. 


(ft ) Organic Pigments Dyestuff 
covered by Appendix 3. 


VO. SAFETY MATCHES, FIREWORKS AND 
EXPLOSIVES 


9.31.1 

Safely Matches 

6% 

(a) 

Sulphar. 

B.31.7 

Fireworks 

6% 

(a) 

Sulphur. 

K51.3 

Detonators/Dctonatlng fuse 

10% 

8 

M 

Sodium azide (10%). 
Copper wire ban. 

Nitric Aold. 

B.51.4 

Safety Fuse , 

6% 

(a) 

Sulphur, 

V JL CERAMIC PRODUCTS 




B.53 1 

Glazed tiles 

10% 

8 

a 

a. 

Fluorspar (Add grade). 
Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 

Copper oxide 

Refractories. 

China Clay. 

Borax. 

Zinc. 

BJ3 2 

Insulators 

15% 

(a) 

(b) 

h 

Zinc. 

Lead. 

Transformer oil. 

China Clay. 

B.53.3 

Spray-dried Kaolin or China clay 

6% 

(a) 

Sodium hydrosulphite 

B.53.4 

Artificial Teeth (Porcelain type) 

6% 

(a) 

Silicone Emulsion. 

B.33.3 

Crockery 

13% 

8 

China Clay, 

Liquid gold (10%). 

B.51.6 

Sanitary Ware* 

10% 

(a) 

China Clay. 

B.34 

Mosalc/Terrazo tiles 

10% 

(a) 

White OemeDt. 

IX. GLASS AND GLASSWARE 




B.57.1 

Clinical Thermometers and Wall Thermo¬ 
meters. 

10% 

(a) 

Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 




(ft) 

Sodium SUIco-fluoride 

B.57.2 

Vacuum Flasks and Insulated ware 

20% 

(a) Borax 
<£) Refractories. 

(cj Sodium Nitrate (10%). 

(d) A.B.S Moulding Powdet 
(30%) 

O) Graphlted Oil (10%). 

B.37.3 

Glass Syringes 

10% 

(a 

(ft) 

(0 

Stainless Steel round* (20 %, 
Sodium Sffioo fluoridi 
Electroplating salts 

B.57,4 

Flat Glass Including sheet, figured and 
wired glass. 

6 % 

(a) 

(ft) 

Refractories. 

Sodium Sulphate (30%) 





(*uu I"~-<s« i) 


XITCrT VT : VdllUGI 


263 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 


2 3 4 


IX, GLASS AND GLASSWARE —Cone Id. 

0 . 37.3 Giasj Vial* 1° % ' j) Sodium Sllico Fluoride 

rid Boms. 

(c) Sodium Nitrate \ 

(aj Sodium Sulpbatr f 1 20 %l 

if' Refractoriea 

(/) Graphlted Oil (10%). 

:« 37.* Gins* Bead* and Felt* Pearl* 6 % f«) P«rl Estience (20 %) 

tfe) Sodium SOIco Fluoride 

(ei 3ora*. 

off Rsfroctoriaa 


a.*7.T Gta«* and Glaas wart NOS 


B.J7.8 Ophthalmic fused blanks and lens** 


10% ( t) Sodium Sibco Finn*’<■* 

tfc) Sodium Nitrate 1 
(c) Sodium Sulphate 
(rf) Bora*. 

(а) Rtfracso'lat 

(/) Graphited Oil (10%). 

10% (a) Emery grain*. (1) Exporters of products cove* 

(б) Cerium Oxide, red by this SI. No. can net 

Co) Fused bifocal blanks. themselves registered eitbet 

with the Chemicals and 
tilled Products Lrrport 
Promotion Council oi the 
Plastic and Linoleums Ex 
port Pi o>notion Council, 
for the purpose of obtain¬ 
ing REP benefits 


X. ASBESTOS AND CEMENT PRODUCTS 

8.60 Asbestos products and Asbestos 

products 


Censed l 30% (a) Raw asbestos 

( b) Phosphor Bronze 
(5%). 


r) Additional import reple¬ 
vin* nishment at 20 % of tbo 
f.o.b. value of exports 
will be allowed for Import 
of raw asbestos against 
exports of Asbesto* 
products 


XI. WOOD PRODUCTS 

General Notes i— 

rl) Against the exports of 
products covered by this 
category, 5% of the value 
of REP licence can be used 
for import of consumable 
ools including Peeler 
knives. Sheer knives, 
Clipper knives. Electrically 
operated small hand tools 
•'or 'vood work. 


8.66 

Plywood and Plywood products Including 

flush doors. 

»o% 

to) 

lb) 

Ores tot ma Id thy ( 1 . 5>v, 
thefic Resin. 

Melamine Resin 

B.67 

Decorative wooden picture trim* oriels 
frames. 


(a) 

Bronx* Powder 

8.68 

Fibre-boards (Hard board, Insulation 
board and accouatic tiles), particle board* 
tveneered and onveneered oud moulded 
particle board), and oompreg, laminated 
timber and danslfled wood. 


bri 

Mtlaroint Reals*. 

XII. RUBBER MANUFACTURED 




8,70.1 

Bicycle tyre* and tube* excluding tubes of 

butyl rubber 

6 % 

(a) 

(b) 
t.'l 

Id) 

te) 

Snlphat 

Zinc 

Titanium Dfcreid* ■RntUi 

grade). 

Cycle tube valves (10 %i 
Carbon black (20%) 

8 TO. J 

Foam rubber i ul sponge rubber aod po - 
dULtt thereof 

i ** ‘ 

ml 

(M 

‘iulphuu 

/Jut 




254 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX n~rontd 

T 2 3 4 S~" 

HL RUBBER MANUFACTURES— concld. 

B.70.3 Ccrjtiitrial appliances of rubber eidudloc 10% la) Sulphur. 

j (ibber aprons and cou. (ft) Ammonium Carbonate, 

(c) Titanium Dioxide (Ru'IU 


M.¥0.< 

3.TO.J 

B.I0 6 

a -70 7 


B.70.8 

B.7I 


wuhlvr eptonj. un< t -. ta . . _ , 

R;,falser hostro (other Shan oil resistant 
Soso*) and bolting* 

i 

r resistant ho»e« 

Rubber and canya* footwear 


Surgical and Medical appliance* of rubber 

Automobile tyre* and tubes (excluding 
tube* of butyl rubber) i— 


10% 


t!!% 


10 % 


10% 


6 % 


grade) 

(d) Zinc. 

(«) Microcrystalline Wax. 

{f) Carbon black (10%). 

(a) Titanium Dioxide (Ratlin 
grade). 

(ft) sulphur. 
it) Phenolic re*t«, 

(a) Mlcrocrrsteninr Wn 
(t) Precipitated Silica (10 %). 


(a) Sulphur 
ib) Titanium Dioxide, 
tcj Zinc 
<<f) lead. 

(«) Ammonium Carbonate, 

(f) Microcrystalline Wax. 

(g) Carbon black (10%), 

(a) Sulphur. 

(ft) Zinc. 

(ej U*d. 

id) Microcrystalline Wax 
(«) Titanium dioxide. 


(i) Agalnit the export of Fir* 
Hose*, the following item* 
will alto be allowed within 
the overall replenishment t— 
(f) Silicone emulsion*. 

(II) Sodium rllioo fluorlnr. 

(III) Synthotlo itpun yara 


in) Sulphur, 

(ft) Titanium Dioxide. 

(c) Ammonium Carbonate. 
id) Zinc. 

(*) Mlcrocrystalllne Wax. 

(/) Boot and *hoe grindery tit., 
bifurcated rivet*, stapling 
lasting slugging and auto 
aolar wire, machine tack*, 
atuds/hook*. atee) shank* 

(20 ?6. 

tf) Organic Pigment Dyeetuff* 

covered by Appendix 3 (20%) 
(ft) PVC compound* (10%). 

(1) Precipitated Silica. 

(0 Carbon black (10 %) 

(a) Sulphur. 

(ft) Zinc. 


<0 Tyree with nylon cord . . 13% (a) Sulphur. 

(ft) Zinc 

(c) Resorcinol (2%). 

(a) Pinetor (10%). 

(«) Nglon tyre cord fabric 

(f) Precipitated Silica. 

(t) Antioxidants and accelera¬ 
tor* appearing In Appendix 3 

( 10 %). 

(ft) Cat bon bleak (5 3P. 



iHj Other* 


a 

Snlphui 

Zinc. 




a 

Resorcinol (2 %), 

Piaetar (10%). 

B.72 

Auto and bicycle tabes of butyl rubber 

6% 

(a) 

Sulpha*. 




(ft) 

Zinc. 




C*J 

Platter. 




(d) 

Cycle tub* salv*» (10%). 

B.73 

Rrbber mneufactuied product* N.O.S, 

io» 

M 

Sulphur 




(*) 

Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 


Q nule). 

(«) Zinc nawroaght. 

(a) Ammonium carbonate. 
(*) Corboa black (10%). 



(wr I—shr i) 


TTSPRT WTOTTW 


255 


AfPENDIX ll—Conta 


1 2 3 4 3 


m. PAPER, PAPER PRODUCTS AND 
STATIONERY 


B.TT 

Tissue Paper, Including cigarette tissue 

6% 


Paper. 


B.78 

Paper based transfers, plain ot printed 

6% 


B.82 

(u) Books— all type* . 

23% 


lb) Paper and Paper Product* 

qo 

NN 


(c) Art Calendars, Diaries, Brochure* 
Greeting Cards, Playing Cards, Gilt 
Edged Invitation Garda. 


Id) Aerogrammes, Exercise book*, writing 
pad*. Wrapping papers. Office file* 
and fancy stationery items, labels etc. 

10% 


(*) Repropulls or film positives of pboto 
type set page* of Books, Magaalne* etc. 

10% 

B 84 

Newspaper*, Journal* and periodicals 

50% 

B.86.I 

Fountain pon Ink, typewriter ribbon Ink 

6% 

B.86.2 

Ink pads, correcting fluid*, masking caps, 
blotting pad*. 

6% 

B.88.4 

(1) Pencils ... 

6% 


(II) Lead Slips for Pencil* 

6% 

XIV 

M13CBLLANBO US 


B.fW.S 

Chemical* and Allied FTodnofa set •!■*• 
where Included 1st this group. 

2% 


0. PLASTICS 
1 RAW MATERIALS 

C.9.1 Phenol formaldehyde mnaldfei powedr 31 % 

C.3.2 0r*» formaldehyde moaldlai powl«i 


(a) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 

(A) Sodium Benioate, 

(c) Melamine Formaldehyde. 

la) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 

(f. Sodium Benzoate. 

(e) Melamine Fonnaldebyde. 

(a) Newsprint (1) Transfer of REP licence for 

t k) Printing paper. item (a) oi the material 

(e) Photographic chemical* imported thereunder shall 

(10%) be governed by the provi 

irf) Piloting Ink* (10 %). *lon& of Newsprint Contrc. 1 

Order. 

(а) Printing Paper. 

(б) Printing ink* (20%). 


(a) Newsprint. (1) Same as Remark (1) again*! 

(*) Photographic chemical* SI. No. B.82(a). 

( 10 %). 

(c) Printing Ink* (10%). 


(a) Chlorobutol. 
lb) Tannic Acid. 

(a) Lead. 


(a) Titanium Dioiide (Rutile 
grade). 

(o) Carbon Bli’ck. 

lb) Titanium Dioxide <’ jt l» 

Grad*). 


(o) Packing material*. (I) Export product* will be 

specified In the REP licence 
and packing material* per¬ 
mitted will be a* are rele¬ 
vant to Ihe product ex¬ 
ported 


*») 

Titanium 

«r»d«) 

Dtosdd* 

(Until* 

O) 

Titanium 

flrade) 

Dioxide 

(Kurils 



256 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 

3 


n. MANUFACTURES 


C.T Fountain/ball point pens, ball point pen 

refills, sign pens, fibre tip pens (all types), 
micro tip pens, roller—writer pens and 
parts thereof, and fountain pen nibs 
(Including stainless steel fountain pen 
nibs) and filter and tips (except filter and 
Sips of fountain pens). 


20 % 


( 1 ) 


C.8.1 (/1 Bangles excluding Polystyrene Bangle* 


(a) Steel balli. 

(b) Stainless steel ooUs/stripi 
not exceeding 100 mm width. 

(c) Nickel. 

(d) Electroplating salt* and 
brighteners. 

(*) Cellulose Acetate Moulding 
Powder. 

(/I Polyethylene moulding 
powder (low dermlty/hlgh 
density) as paoklng material 

(20%). 


Iff) 

(A) 

<0 


(/) 


<« 

<0 


Ball point refills. 

Clip* for fountain and ball 
point pens. 

Metal caps and barrels for 
pens (Including ball point 
pens) made of gun met*), 
silver sterling gold plated. 
Effaceable types of sketch 
pen Inks In concentrated 
form. 

Nlgroslne dyes (C. I. No. 
30415). 

Synthetic fibre tips and fillet 
for sketch pens (10%). 


20% (a) 


Methyl 

Monomer. 


Methacrylate 


(II) Polystyrene Bangle* 


( b ) Olasi Beadi/Chatons/False 
Pearls. 

(o) Acrylic Plastic Sheets/off- 
outs other than Acrylic 
Plastic Sheets of 0.83 mm 
to 1.2 mm thickness (23%). 

(d) Cellulose Acetate Film 
Scrap (excluding 33 mm 
magnetic tapes). 

t«) CefiulOM Acetate Butyrate. 
off-cuU/onttlog*. and wrap 
(30%). 

(/) Cellulose Acetate Mould¬ 
ing Powder/granules/sheets/ 
off-cuts/sheer cuttings. 

(a) Cellulose Acetate Scrap 
(50%). 

20% fa) Polystyrene Moulding 
Powder. 

( b) Pearl Essence (10%). 


C.8.2 Identic Imitation Itwsllsr? 2*8 (<*) PVC Algid lhe*U (25%)) 

(») Pearl Bisssus (30%). 

(a) Otsss Beads/Chaten*. 

(d) Polycrsthaa* Fcsm, 

<•) Astylls Pit*tie shetfc/off- 
anli (21®. 

if) J**ls« Pea fit 

( e ) CA o8'-tatsfiat«<o. 

(I) Mvtsl fitting*. 3adln*s, 
com pony at* cad location** 
rsqstred for Imitation Jewel¬ 
lery 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


5 


Item (I) In column 4 made 
of silver sterling or gold 
plated will bo allowed only 
against oxpori of pent 
made of these materials. 



wrrtrr rr trto tiwrpvr 


257 


(WI—'ll 1 ) 


APPENDIX 17— Contd. 


l 


2 


3 


4 


3 


a. MANUFACTURES —contd 

C.9 Plastic Denture materia! and denial 13% 

products 


C.10 Glass fibre reinforced Polyester and njana- 20% 

factures Including helmets and spares 
like straps, braided cords etc. 


C 11 1 

Laminate* (Phenolic and Metarules) 

6% 

C.11 3 

Plastic Electrical Accstioriet 

10% 


C.11.3 Plastic moulded, extruded and fabricated 10% 
goods, other than PVC fabricated 


(o) Methyl Methacrylate 
Monomer. 

(A) Cadmium red 

vul Acrylic sheets (30%) 

(A) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 

(<■! Reinforcements such as 
chopped strand mat, rovin¬ 
gs, woven rovings 

trfl Polyester resin (unsalu 
rated). 

to) Decorative paper for lain - 
Bate*. 

(a) PVC Compound 

(A) Electrical steel sheets/ 
CRCA sheets. (20%) 

(a) Packing materials (Polye¬ 
thylene moulding powder) 
(20%). 

id) Acrylic Plastic Sheets/ 
off-cuts other than Acrylic 
Plastic Sheets of 0 85 mm 
to, 1.2 mm thickness 

(t) C.A. off-cuts. 


(a) PVC Compound. (1) 

lb) Cellulose acetate moulding 
pOwder/Granules/Sheets/off- 
cuto/Shect cuttings. 

(c) Acrylic Plastic Sbeets/off- 
outs other than Acrylic 
Plastic -Sheets of 0.83 mm (2) 
to 1.2 mm thickness- 
id) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade). 

(e) Cellulose Acetate Scrap 
(50%) 

(f) ABS Mould-ing Powder (3) 


An additional 15% Import 
replenishment will be 
allowed for the import of 
Phthalic Plasticisers against 
only the exports of PVC 
moulded/extruded goods. 
Against exports of Poly¬ 
styrene products, Import of 
Polystyrene moulding pow¬ 
der only will be allowed 
at 23% rate of Import 
replenishment. 

Import of ABS Moulding 
Powder will be allowed 
only against export of 
products made of ABS 
Moulding Powder. 


C.1I 4 PVC fabricated goods- all iort« S3% 


fa) Polyurethane Foam/sbeetlng (1) Import of Zip/Snap Faste- 

nera/Metal fittings including 
locks shall not exceed 24 % 
of the value of the licence 
subject to maximum of 
Rs 50,000 

(2) Import of Zip Fasteners 
in coll form will bo allow¬ 
ed only against export of 
purses, bags and travel 
goods within the percent¬ 
ages and value restric¬ 
tions referred to in Re¬ 
mark (1) above. 


/o'. 

(A) Glass beads/chatont, 

(e) Zip/snap fasteners/metal 
fittmgs/fockx. 

(rf) Chlorinated Paraffin 

(e) PVC leather doth of all 
sorts. 

(J) PVCihesM 


C.U Cramophnes tecords *t*d accessories iQ% io) Lithe Positive* Negatives/ 

Colour Transparencies 
(A) Blank looquer Recording 
tc) Pre-recorded Tape* (20%) 
id) Professional Magnetic Taps 
(20%) 

<») S-NIckel 
U) Cutting sty 111 
#1 Matrices 



258 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17 —tonld 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 


II. MANUFACTURES —concld 


C.13 Metallised Plastics . . 3% (a) Pearl Essence. 


(6) Bismuth Oxychloride, 
(e) Glass Beads/Chatoni. 


C.I4 


Spectacles, Sun Goggles spectacle frames and 13 % 
parts thereof 


(a) Metalfittlngs including spe¬ 
ctacle hinges used in specta¬ 
cle frames (50%). 

(b) Nickel. 

(c) Stainless steel wire upto 
3 mm dia (25%). 

{d) Glare glasses/tinted lenses/ 
plastic lenses. 

( e ) Cellulose Acetate Moulding 
Powder/granules/sheets/ 
.offcuts/sheet cutings.- 

(/) CelluloseAcetate Scrap (50 Ji 


(1) Additional replenishment at 
35% will be given for 
import of rolled gold and 
gold filled wires/strips/tubes < 
fronts/pies and screw# 
against export of rolled gold 
spectacle frames/spectacles/ 
rolled gold combination 
spectacle frames/spectacles, 
but in such cases, import 
of items (b) and (c) I* 

) Col. 4 will not be allowed 


(2) Exporters of products co¬ 
vered by this SI. No. can 
get themselves registered 
either with the Chemicals 
and Allied Products Export 
Promotion Council or the 
Plastics and Linoleums Ex¬ 
port Promotion Counci?, 
for the purpose of obtaining) 
REP benefits. 


C.I3 

PVC leather cloth/foam leather cloth/ 

10% 

(o) 

Aluminium Powiler/tiakes. (1) An additional import reple- 

sheetings supported/unsupported includ¬ 


(b) 

Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 

aishment of 20% will be 


ing PVC adhesive tapes. 



grade). 

allowed for the import of 



(e) 

Chlorinated Para tan. 

Phthalto Plasticisers only 

C.16 

Asbestos Floor Tile* 

30% 

(a) 

Asbestos ChrysotUe. 



(b) 

Chlorinated Paraffia. 


C.l? 

Vinyl Floor Tiles . 

30% 

(a) 

Vinyl Acetate Monomer(30 %). 



(*) 

Chlorinated Paraffin. 


C 18 

Linoleums 

2% 

(a) 

Titanium Dioxide (Betti# 




■ 

grade). 


C.2Q 

PVC coated Jute tap 

2% 

(a) 

Titanium Dioxide (Ratiie 
grads). 


G.24 

Acrylic Sheet . ... 


(o) 

Methyl Methacrytete 

Moscow. 


028 

Dolls, Toys. Gam®—-Ail types, except those 
made of wood, paper machle and rap. 

20% 

(a) 

Tin'Plate (23 J0. 

Sound mechanisms. 



(b) 





(e) 

Mmrical movemeets. 





(d) 

Plastlcizen (10%). 





(•) 

PVC i!m«m (30%). 





c/i 

Dock work/Frictios me- 
sbaslsm. 


029 

Acryllc/Mod Ified Polyester a tract ami fibre 

20% 

(a! 

Methyl Methacrylate 


reinforced panel 



Monomer 


o. 

leather and leathergoods and other 




D.1.4 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS 

All types of Finished Leather, Leather 

6% 

<a3 

Ot&kma pigment comers (1) 

The exports made on or aStet 

belting, picking bauds, buffers, sheep 
calf roller skins and leather aprons 



appearing la Appendix 3 

(23%). 

1st September, 1981 qualify 
for Import replenishment 





Casein. 

only If they conform to speci¬ 




<0 

Titaaiaia Dioxide (10 %> 

fication* Said down under the 




(«#) 

Sodium Alginate, othci 

ladies Standardslastftn Uom 





'has deata! grad* (5*8 

18 i 81T0-198I Guideline* 




« 

lets; 

for MmtMteatio* of Finished 




() 

Acetic 4te.it 

Leather* for Export (thiii 




( 8 ) 

Fermat* Calais* 

'»w'a if) 

Revlsiee) notified rid# ISte! 
rtryof Ftaaace fDepar*®««< 
of fesvws**) Notfflectio* Pa 




m 





U) 

Stxlife'i 4 -dph.se 

Castorn* datod fjii« 




if) 

Formte acid (1J%; 

&§th Aagast I9S?.. 






259 


(<RT»T 1— V* l) 


AjPIMENDIX I /• t o v a 

1 2 3 4 # 


D. LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 
OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS— Cornel 


(A) Silicon emulsions (3 %), 

(/) Mohair fabrics of size not 
exceeding 1 iq. meter each 

( 10 %) 

(«} Consumable tools Including 
Glass glazing stone for lea¬ 
ther glazing, sewing needle, 
Shaving machine blades, 
tkuddlng and fleshing ma¬ 
chine knives, Band knives 
lot splitting machines 
sod setting machine blades. 
Electrical trimming knives, 

to S’ acid. 

(o) Pentachlorophenol and Us 
sbdlum salt (3/0. 

( [p ) Synthetic Organic Tanning 
Agents. 

(q) Basic Chromium Sulphate 

( 10 %). 

(r) Acrylic, Polyurethane 
Emulslons/Blnders/Fillers/ 
Penetrators (3 %). 

(s) Buffing Papers/PH Paper 
and indicator (10%). 

(f) Gam bier Extract. 


D.2 Leather manufacture! the following namely I 


D.2.1 (f) Footwear (emoludlng canvas foot¬ 

wear)!— 

(o) Closed shoes with leather uppers 2033 

lb) Leather footwear othei than 13% 

dosed shoes with leather uppers. 


General Notes :— 

(1) Import of metal zip 
fasteners will bo allowed 
upto 10% of the face 
value of the licence sub¬ 
ject to a maximum of 
Rs. 30,000/- against export 
of products covered by SI. 
Nos. D. 2.1, D.2.2, D.2,3 
and D. 2.4. 


(a) MloiocrystaUlne Wax. (1) Import of Zip/Snap Paste- 

(b) Boot and shoo grindery now shall not exceed 2J % 

vh., bifurcated rivets, of the value of the licence 

stapling, lasting slugging subject to a maximum of 

and auto-solar wire. Hi. 30,000. 

machine tacks, band tacks, 
studs/hooks, steel shanks, 
threaded heel nails and 
pins (23%)., 

(c) Zip/Snap Fasteners. (2) Import of w single Item in 

id) Glass Beads/Glass Qiatons. trimmings and emh allix fa. 

(«) Polyur inane Foam. ments shall no* exceed 

tf) Steel M.-e caps/Bok toes and Bi ons lakh la tala*. 

counter* of synthetic mate¬ 
rials acd sheets thereof 
( 23 %). 

<t) Trimming/ sad smbeliith- 
nosatt for Issthvr foods 

U) Backles/Eyelets and 
decorative flttlngi for 
footwear. 

(It) Hylos, Uryleae, cot 
foe, Utwut and synthrMr 
saving thread. 

(HI) Polyester Plastic sheets, 
sxcluding Polyester 
film plain or metallised 

lit) JUadymeds leather 
footwear dressings. 




260 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Patr I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 1/— Contd. 


1 2 3 4 3 


D. LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 
OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS— conld. 


(«) Component! of footwrai Including shoe 124% 
uppers (excluding components of can¬ 
vas shoes). 


(») Elastic tape/webblng 

(3%). 

<«') Ny.oa packed icinfoo 
eeraent upon cod bac¬ 
ket*,, synthetic i-ecier* 
(Of ■iha*. 

(»(i) Bhos laces (J %). 

(A) Polyamldo/potyester resins, 
rods, jpanale* or blocks 
(adhesives) Including pri¬ 
mers (10%), 

(0 Shoe lasts (23%). 

(/. Footwear components In¬ 
cluding anil soles and 
heels. 

(k Packing material,, viz., card 
board cartons. 

(0 Consumable tools, testing 
equipment, designers’ kit, 
prtr-punche> cards used 
In leather Industry, silver 
marking .etiils. (10%). 

(nr) Rubber/Ctopc In sheet far 
soles and heels. 

Cn) Self-adhesive tapes exclud¬ 
ing plastic and transparent 
viscose film tapes (3%). 

(o) Polyurethane Foam In¬ 
cluding laminated with 
cotton/nylon/synthotlo/wool 
fabrics. 


(a) MlorocrysUilllne wax. 

(b) Zip/Snap Fasteners. 

(cj Glass Beads/Glass Chatons. 

(a) Polyurethane Foam. 

(«) Trimmings and embellish¬ 
ments for leather goods viz.. 
(f) Buokles/Eyelets and 
decorative fittings for 
shoe uppers. 

(II) Nylon, terylene, cot¬ 
ton, linen and synthetic 
sewing thread. 

(Ill) Polyester Plastic Sheets 
excluding polyester film 
plain or metallised. 
(Iw) Readymade leather 
footwear dressings. 

(v) Elastic tspe/wenblng 
(3%). 

(W) Self-adhesive tapes 
excluding plastic and 
transparent visoose 
film tapes (3%). 

(/) Poly am i de/Polyester resins, 
rods, granules or blocks 
(adhesives) Including pri¬ 
mers (10 %). 

(t) Consumable t -ole, testing 
equipment, designers’ kf*, 
p re-punched oardi used 
in leather industry and 
silver marking refills 00%). 

(A) Steel toe caps/Bo* toes and 
counters of synthetic mate¬ 
rials and sheets thereof 
(23%) 

(/) Shoe lasts (. > 

()J Steel reinforce-.' msoles, 

'.It i fidachf e ticks 


Cl) Import of Zlp/snap fasteners' 
(including dps in coils) 
shall not exceed 5% of the 
value of the licence subject 
to a mn timum of Rs. 50,000. 

(2) Import of a single Item of 
trlmmi i<» and embellish¬ 
ments shall ‘not exceed' 
Rs. one lakh In value. 




(*n*r i) 


rtt-t ! ft nrpur: xurramr 


261 


AFPENDiX 1 . -Com*. 


l 


D. 


LEATHER AND LEATHER GOODS AND 
OTHER ANIMAL PRODUCTS— Conc W- 
O 2.2 Light categoric of travel and other leather 
goods like attache rases, brief cases, ladies 
hand bap, wallets, leather garments, 
purses, leather hand glow* other than 
Industrial leather t^ows cowered hr *1 
No D.2.4 


I* 54 


D.2.3 Heavy leather goods like saddlery Items, 10% 
leather trunks, leather suitcases. 


D.2.4 Industrial leather gloves . 6% 


D.4 BristJes/other animal hair 3 % 

D.3 Paint brushes Including other brushes made 3 % 

out of animal hair. 


1 b ) 

fr) 

(') 


(?) 

W 

(0 


fa) 

(ft) 

(c) 

Of 

<*) 


(r) 


(a) 

fa) 

(f-) 


Microcmtallloe War 
Locks, suitcase fjttinR* and 
M.tal fittings, 

Ztp/Snap Fastener*. 

Olajs Beeds/Ghtss Chs- 
tons. 

Polyurethane Foam sheets. 
Trimmings and embellish- 
man** for leather good* v<®, 

(/) Buckles/Eyelets and (3) 
decorative fittings, 

(II) Nylon.terylene.cotton, 
linen and other synthe¬ 
tic sewing thread, 

{ill ) Polyester plastic sheets, 
excluding Polyester film 
plain or metallised. 

(iv) Readymade leather 
goods dressings, 

(v) Elastic cloth, elastic ta¬ 
pes, webbing (5%). 

00 Artificial far doth. 

(vll) Self-adcsive tapes ex¬ 
cluding plastic and 
transparent viscose 
film tapes (5%). 
Consumable tools used In 
leather industry including 
silver marking refills (5 %). 
Polyester self adhesive fas¬ 
tener. 

Hook and loop type faste¬ 
ners. 

( 6 ) 


(5) 


(1) Against expons of leather 
garments. Import replenish¬ 
ment will Lw admissible at 
10% instead of ij%. 

(2) Import of XiplSnap Faste¬ 
ners (Including zips In colls 
and Its components) shall 
not exceed 9 % of the train# 
of the licence subject to a 
maximum of Rs 90,000. 
Same as remark (2) against 

Si. No. D.2,l(l). 

(4) Such ltem9 or trimmings 
and embellishments as are 
not Included in column 4 
against this Serial Number 
but appear in Item (a) 
under Co). 4 against 
S. No. O.l will 
also be allowed against 
exports of leathei 
garments, subject to the 
condition that the import 
of a single item shall not 
exceed Its. One lakh In 
value within the overall 
value of the liccnoe- 
Withln the value of the 
REP licence, import ot 
Polyester Wadding will be 
allowed against export of 
leather garments with a 
face value restriction of 
5°/. 

within the value limit 
allowed for import of 
Trimmings and Embellish¬ 
ments. Import of Fusible/ 
Double Fusible/Non-Wo- 
ven Fusible/Cotton Fusi¬ 
ble and all types of Fusible 
Interlinings will be allowed 
upto 5 % only against 
exports of leather garments. 

(7) Import of 4 dummies noi 
exceeding 25 % of the 
value of the licence will 
be allowed by the licensing 
authority against each 
REP licence within the 
talue of the licence 

(8) Import of Polyester self 
adhesive fastener will be 
allowed only against export 
of leather garments. 

MiorocrystaUlne Wax, (1) Same a* remark (2) against 
Locks, suitcase fittings and SI. No. D.7.2. 
metal fittings. 

Zip/Snap Fasteners. 

Polyurethane Foam Sheets. 

Trimmings and embellish¬ 
ments required for saddlery 
like buckies, thread, adhesi¬ 
ves, studs, snap/surivel 
hooks (23%). 

Saddle tree. 

Zip fasteners. 

Polyurethane Foam Sheets. 

Nv!on, teryleoe, cotton, 
linen and synthetic sewing 
threads (10 %) 

Ibir.klng material, viz,, LDPF. 

Packing material, viz. LDPE. (1) Import of tinplate will be 
Tin plate, allowed only againBt export 

of paint brushes. 


(1) Same as remark (21 a gainer 

SI No. D.2,2. 



[Part I—Sec. 1] 


262 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 

A/TKND1X 17—c. fluid. 


I 2 

R. SPORTS GOODS 

g.l Sport* goods, not elsewhere specified 


V 


4 


S 




tel Snap Fasteners (Pour Parts), (1) Import of Item (a) 
Zip Fasteners (J %), shall not exceed Rs. 30,000 

Id value. 


(4) Expanding locks for tporti 
bag. (10%), 

(c) Titanium Dioxide (Rutile 
grade) (10%), 


(2) Import of Items (1) and (no) 
wffl be allowed only against 
exports of footballs. 

(3) Against export of Fishing 
files covered by this SI. No., 
only the following Items will 
be allowed f~ 


(d) Silicone Emulsions (20%). 

(*) Electroplating salts and 
brighteners (10%). 

Nickel. 

Synthetic resins and bin. 
den. 

(h) Polyurethane foam sheets 
for gloves and pads. 

f J) Polyurethane coated nylon 
doth for gloves and leg- 
guards. 

(/) Table tennis rubber sheets. 

(k) Racket press fittings (20%). 

{/ ) Polyurethane sheets for 
footballs. 

(m) Nylon lining for footballs. 

(n) Organic pigment coioun 
in Appendix 3(5%). 

(u) Linen thread (5%). 

(p) Packing material, viz. 
LDPE (3%), 


(/) Feathen. 

(II) Fur synthetic. 

(Iff) Fishing fly hooln. 

(4) Against exports of air rifles 
covered by this SLNo,, Im¬ 
port of only seamless steel 
tubes for air rifle barrels will 
be allowed, 

(3) Import of glass fibre sheet¬ 
ing will be allowed only 
against export of hockey 
sticks reinforced with glass 
fibre sheeting. 

(6) Import of item (I) i.e. 
polyurethane coated nylon 
cloth for gloves and leg- 
guards will be allowed only 
against export of gloves and 
leg-guards. 


F, FISH AND FISH PRODUCTS 


General Notes i— 

(1) In cases when Col. 4 
permits the Import of Tin 
plate prime OTS quality/ 
MR type, the licence holder 
may also Import OTS con¬ 
tainers whlthin the value of 
the licence. Additional 
Import replenishment at 
the rate of 13% will also 
be allowed for import of 
OTS contaiasrs. 


P.1.2 Canned li»b i~ 

(/) Canned Sardines 


(II) Other canned fish 


35% 


10 % 


(a) Tin plate prime OTS 
auality/MR type/OTS cans 

(b) Aluminium sardine cans, 
Ringpull/Tear-ofT (20%). 
Lacquer (5 %). 

Double refined oil for 
preservation (5%). 

(a) Same as against (I) abovs. 


(1) Import of Tin Plato Prime 
MR type covered by ltem(a) 
In Column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 70% of the licence 
value within the value of the 
licence. 


All others (Including frog legs) 


6 % 


(a) Packing materials, namely 
Polyethylene moulding 
powder. Polyethylene gra¬ 
nules, cartons, cardboard, 
kraft paper as liner of a 
strength 225 gms per sq. 
meter and more and tin 
plate prime OTS quality/ 


(4) 

W 


MR typo. 

Fishing hooki- 
Hydrogen Peroxfde/Tartarlc 
Add (20%). 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


Fish and Fish products If 
exported In "IndJviduaJlv 

r ek Frozen” form, wDl 
i be eligible for REP 
licence at 6% for import 
of items in Col. 4. 

Against exports of Isin¬ 
glass (processed flsbroaws) 
import of (a) Sodium Iso¬ 
ascorbate and (b) Sodium 
Meta bisulphite will also 
be allowed upto 20% with¬ 
in tbs overall value of tbe 
REP licence. 



<pt vtsftci ' wrranvr 


(fptI— sfs l) 


263 


AfPBNiHX *'/--<.oi»w. 


1 2 
F. FISH AND FISH PRODUCTS— Contd. 


F.1.4 Aquarium Fish 


1 


4 


5 


(3) Import of Tin Plate Prime 
MR type covered by item(a) 
In column 4 shall be allowed 
only upto 50% of the licence 
value within the value of tho 
licence. 

(4) Import of Hydrogen Per- 
oxldo and Tartaric Add 
will be allowed only against 
export of Isinglass 


13% (a) Connected Breeding stock, 

f b ) Artemla/Brine. 

(c^ Shrimp'Eggs. 


«. FOODS 


G.l Onions other than dehynratea 

0.2 Other fresh frnlts/ve| 

flowers/flower 

(/) (a) Fresh fruits, vegetables and Bowers 


iyi 


tot 


(A) Individually quick frozen vegetables. 10% 

iff) Seeds of Foodgmlni. vogettbiej 13% 
flowers, fruits and hedges. 


General Notes i— 
f|) In cases where Col, 4 
permits the import of Tin 
plate prime OTS quality/ 
M R. type, the licence hol¬ 
der may also Import OTS 
containers within the value 
of the licence. Additional 
import repllenlshment at the 
rate of 15 % will also be allow¬ 
ed for Import of OTS con¬ 
tainers. 

(2) Import of Tin Plate prime 
MR type, wherever allowed 
In Column 4 in this pro¬ 
duct roup shall be permitted 
upto 50 % of the licence Value 
within the value of the licence. 

(a) Packing material, namely, 

HDPB/Polypropylene. 


(a) Packing material, namely (1) 
LDPE, HOPE. Polypro¬ 
pylene, plastic pots, GRP 
rnof life sheets, kraft liner 
and Fluting media. Grape 
ward paper, kraft paper. 
Tissue paper for wrapping. 
Peal moss. 

,b) Sodium Metablsnlphlte 

( 10 %). 

(c) Chemicals appearing f a 
Appendix 3 and used In 
oultlvatlon/growth of fruits, 
vegetables and dowers, and 
freshening chemicals for 
fruits, vegetables and 
Flowers. 

(d) Seeds/bulbs/motber plan* 
germ plasm. 

(e) PearilN hortiCcalwu* grade 
and vennloulate 

(a) Same as Items (al to (e) 
against SI. No. G.2fiXa'l 

above, 

(■> < v-sedr fm xirmioatJon/ 
planting 

'*1 • Packing material, namely, 
LDPE, Aluminium foil, 
GRP roofllte sheets. Peal 
moss, laminates—all sorts. 


In case of item (c) In eolumn 
4 , please see para 8 of 
"General Conditions’ In this 
Appendix. 


(1) Same as Remark (l) la 
column 3 against SI. No. G. 
2 (iXa) above. 

f 1) In case of item (c) in column 
4, please see para 8 of 
’General Conditions’ In this 
Appendix. 



264 


THE GAZETTE OF INDTA : EXTRAORDINARY 


APPENDIX ll—Contd. 


fP art I—Sec. ]] 


l, jvot —- 


G. POODS- Contd 


jil) Live plants, Ornamental plums, Fruit 10% 
plant*. Roadside irew, climbers, cm- 
tMti a*d shmbu 


G.3 


U) Poultry product* Including essence of 
chicken, and poultry meat. 


3% 


(in 


Live chicks and hatching eggs 1q% 


:*.< Chemicals and other item* 
appearing in Appendix 3 
used for treatment/proces- 
ilsg of seeds 

id) Sodium Metahisulphlt* 

(10%). 

<#) Stock seeds for parent line* 
materlals/seeds/planti and 
■enn plasm. 

,;0 Live plants, bulbs, taben, 

>g) Peartite horttcullurs grad* 
and yermiculate. 

(A) Thiram. 

(0 Captan Formulations. 

()) Benlate. 

(k) Lanata, 

(a) Packing materials, name- (1) In case of Item (o) la 


ly, LDPE, HOPE, Plastic 
pots, GRP rooflite sheets. 
Peat moss. 

f|i) Stork seeds for parent 
lines and nucleus mater- 
i lals/seeds/plant* and 
germ plasm. 

>'d) Chemicals and other Items 
such as plant shine, app¬ 
earing In Appendix 3 
for treatment/proceasing of 
seeds and plants (20%). 

id) Live plants, bplbs, tubers 
subject to ofearanee by 
the Plant Protection De¬ 
partment. 

(*) Fertilizers. 

if) Sodium Meteblsulphitt 

( 10 %). 

(s) Pearlite horticulture grad* 
and Vermtcuhite. 

<l) Thiram, 

</) Captan formelatloas. 

(/) Benlate. 

(*) Lanata. 

( 0 ) Packing materials. 
Polyurethane. 


column 4, please see para 8 
of 'General Conditions' la 
this Appendix 


rh.. (1) Automatic fsadats and 
waterers used in poultry 
breeding farms will also ba 
allowed la be Imported 
within the overall value 
of the REP licence. 


(a) Grand parent stocfc(poul- 
uy). 

(b) Packing materials, flz, 
Polyaratbaaa (20 %). 


(1) Import of Grand parttnt 
stock (poultry) will be 
allowed only to registered 
hatcheries approved by the 
Department of Agricuftura, 
Govt, of India, New Delhi. 
The maximum value opto 
ebich each such hatchery 
will ba allglbla to obtain 
Import replenishment 
licence o» Its export* during 
the licensing year will ba 
R* 3.0 lakhs. 

(2) Exports by ah only will 
qualify for REP licenoe*. 

(3) Automatic feeders and 
waterers used In poultry 
breeding farms will also be 
allowed to be Imported 
within the overall value of 
the REP llceno*. 



('AFT I—5T7 l) 


STRF 3TT THprer JRfTtJRor 


265 


APPENDIX 17—Contd. 

12 3 4 


3 


j 


4. VOGiiH—Conid 

(i//) Tabic eggs . ... 3 % 


a a 

(/) Ensh, chilled or frozen meat 

3 % 


(II) Animal C»*uigs 

«% 


(Hi) Canned Meal , 

10% 

0.5.1 

Processod/preserved foods, dehydrated 
foods, dehydrated onions, dehydrated 
garlic, pickles and chutney. 

10% 


Q32 Alcoholic beverage* . . 'G% 


G.».» Biscuit* aod c*k«*. wafer blscalw, ra*t* aid 9 W A 

1c* cream cones. 


(a) Grand parent stock (poul- (1) Import of Grand parent 

try). stock (poultry) will be 

ft) Paper Egg Trays. allowed only to registered 

c) Packing materials, viz., hatcheries approved by the 

Polyurethane... Deptt. of Agriculture, Govt. 

of India, New Delhi. The 
maximum value upto which 
each hatchery will be eligi¬ 
ble to obtain import reple¬ 
nishment licence on its 
exports for this item during 
the licensing year will be 
Rs. 50,000. 

(2) Same as in Remarks (2) 

and (3) against SI. No 
G.3(ii) above. 

(a) Packing material, r<*., 

LDPE/HDPE, material for 
vacuum packing of meat. 

(a) Packing material wig., 

LDPE. 

ft) Raw Animal casings of 
calibri 18 mm and above. 

(a) Tinplate prime OTS quality/ 

M.R. lype. 

(ft) Easy Open/Fltp top ends. 

(e) Water based rubber com¬ 
pound. 

(«) Tin plate prime OTS qua- (1) Exporters of flub pickles ce¬ 
ll ty/M.R. type. vered by this Serial Number 

(ft) Twist off caps. can get themselves registered 

(ci Easy open/Flip top ends. either with the Marine Pro- 

(a) LDPE/HDPE, Viscose ducts Export Development 

transparent paper (cello- Authority or with the Pro- 
phane). cessed Foods Export Protno- 

(t) Flavouring essences (10 %). don Council, for the purpose 

(/) Asceptlc tegs (10%). of obtaining REP benefits 

(2) Import of Asceptlc bags 
within the overall value of 
the licence will be permited 
if the products under column 
2 have been exported 
iD Ascoptic bags. 

(а) Flavouring essences of (l) Import of Brewery hops 
rum, gin, whisky, brandy 
and vodka, with alco¬ 
holic content not more 
than 18%. 

(б) Packing materials, vii.. 
cartons, card board boxes, 

Kraft paper. Easy open/ 

Flip Top End* 

(*) Psat. 

(J) Rill spirit,'Orap* spirit, la 
balk, with alcoholic com¬ 
ical aot more than 18% 


(a) Mlk powder. 

(ft) VaalHla/Ethyl vanlUla (ty,). 

it] Fact la | msMrtaii, viz., 
Tlaplats prims O.T.S. 
quality/M.R. lyps, Ala- 

minium foil, kiaft paper. 


will be allowed only against 
export of Beer upto 10% 
of the REP licence within 
the overall value of the 
licence. 


58 GT'85—18. 



266 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX \1 — Conut. 

1 2 3 4 3 


G. FOODS — Contd. 

0.6 Fruit juices, nectars and pulpa/concentratee 10% 


<3,8 Non-alcoholic beverage bases , . . 4% 


Q 10 (I) Confectionery (excluding chewing gum. 10% 

bubble gum and peanut candy). 


(II) Chewing gum, bubble gum and peenut 6% 
candy and sesame candy. 


G.l 1 Indian sweets.10 % 


Q.12 Custard powder .6% 


G.13 Instant foods t— 

(0 Canned.10% 


(A) la othe* packing* . . . . 3 % 


0.14 Banana hitters, potato wafers and sago- 3% 

wafers. 

0.13 Dry halt* (excluding cashew kernels but 4% 

Including walnut karnris and apricot 
kernels). 


0.16 Indian snacks like Cblvda, Dal moth. Fried 6 *4 

and salted moong dal. ebara da 1 <**c. <n 

consumer pack*. 


0.17 Melon kernels (du-huaked) .2*4 

G.l8 (0 Tea/Coffee inU powder (instant tea/ 6% 

coffee). 


(a) Tin plate prime O.T.S 
quaHty/M.R. typo. 

(Z>) Packing materials, viz., 
LDPB/HDPE, Cartons, 
Card board boxes, Kraft 
paper. Easy Open/Flip Top 
Ends. 

;c) Twist off caps. 

( d) Flavouring essence* 

(10%). 

(e) Asceptic bags (10 %), 

(a) Synthetic essential oils. 

( b ) Mixtures of Odoriferous 
substance*. 

(a) Milk powder. 

(4) Packing material, viz., 
oetlophana/Lamlnata. 

(a) Packing material (Celle- 
phane/L* urinate). 

(A) Synthetic essential oils 

(e) Paraffin wax (23%), 

(а) Tin plate prime O.T.S. 
quallty/M.R. type. Alumi¬ 
nium foil. 

(б) Cashew nuts. 

(c) Milk powder. 

Id) Easy opcn/Fllp top ends. 

it) Flavouring essence* (10%). 


(I) Import of Asceptic bags 
within the overall value of 
licence will be permitted if 
the products in column 2 
have been exported in 
Asceptic bags. 


(1) Import of milk powder 
will be allowed only against 
exports of gulab Jamun 
Including gulab Jamun mix, 
rasgoUa. carrot halwa, burl), 
sanffesh, peda mix and such 
other Indian sweets where 
milk Is used as an ingre¬ 
dient. 


(a) Packing material, viz., 
tin plate prime O.T.S. 
quality/MR type, card 
boards, cartons, JLDPB. 

(b) Ethyl vanillin (13%). 


(e) Tinplate prime O.T.S. 

qualityJM.R. type. 

(6) Milk powder (20%). 

(e) Flavouring essences (10%). 
(#) Paoling materials, name¬ 
ly, Aluminium lo’ls. 
LDPE, Kraft paper, car¬ 
ton*. 

(A) Flavouring essences (20%). 
(c) Milk powder (20%). 


(a) Packing maforlat, viz.. 
LDPE. 

{*) Packing materials, viz., 
LDPE, Glaasiti* paper, 
Kraft paper, cardboard 
cartons. Polyethylene/ 
Plastic board strappings. 
Parchment paper. 

’*) Packing material »lz^ 
LDPE 

(A) Easy opeii/Hip top end*. 

60 Pack mg materiaU. viz., 
LDPH. 

(c) Tinplate prime UTS qua* 
ity/M.R. type. Alumi¬ 
nium foil. 



(wr i— it 1) 




?67 


as'FENDIA 1/—cornu. 


I 2 3 

C. FOODS— Contd, 

(II) Tea la bag* , 6% 


(hi) Tea/Coffee in consumer packs 6% 


Q.19 Papads (including pappndams, appalams, 6% 

appalappoo, vadoms, warlans and 
Kharkara). 


G.20 

Butter and ghee .... 

. 6% 

G.21 

Ice-cream aad Ice-cream powder 

. 6% 

G.22 

Guar Gum /Seabaala Gam i— 



(1) Reined 

3% 


(II) Treated and Pulverised 

. 6% 


G.23 Wheat bran 3% 

13,24 (/) Cboootateatai mpltad milk looflt 10% 

(«) Cocoa beam .3% 

(lb) Cocoepowdor. ■ 6% 

\It) Cocoa butter 10% 

G .23 Jceotad S«p*ri/Pa n Mas*'* 6 % 


G.26 Peanut products, such as peanut buttm, 6% 

roasted peanuts 


G.27 Roasted and Salted Peanuts in consumer 6% 

packs of 1 Kg. or less. 


4 


3 


(a) Nylon -sob and Alter 
paper for tea bags. 

lb) Packing materials, viz.. 

Card board cartons. 

Aluminium foil. Ivory 
board. 

(a) Packing materials, viz., (1) Import of Tin Plate waste 


Tinplate waste waste, LDPE, 
Ivory board for cartons, 
card board. Aluminium foil, 
Glassine paper. 


(a) Packing material, viz., 
LDPE. 


(«) Tinplate prime OTS quali- 
ty/M.R. type. 

(«) M<1k powder. 


'm) packing material rlz. 
fcrsft paper, 

(a) Packing material, vix 
LDPE. kraft paper. 

(*) Sodium Sdlco Fluoride 
(e) Resorcinol (20%). 

Id) Sodium Metabisulphite- 
(j) Benzalkonfum chloride. 

{ f) Mono Cbloro-acetlc Aofd. 

C g ) Hydrogen Peroxide. 

it) Sflk and nylon bolting 
cloth. 

(a) MU* powder, 

(«) Packing material, vts. LDPE. 
(el Packing materia), viz. Tin¬ 
plate prime OTS quality/ 
MR type. 

Packing materials, viz,, 
LDPE, HDPE, Tinplate 
prime OTS quaiity/MR 
type. Aluminium foil, Glas- 
dna/Buttar paper. 

(a) Packing materials, viz., 
LDPB, Tlaplate prime 
OTS quallty/MR type 

(a) Packing materials, viz.. 
Tinplate prime O.T.S, 
quality/M.R. type, LDPE. 

(b) Flip top enda/Eaay end*. 

(d) Packing materials viz., Poly¬ 
ethylene Moulding Powder, 
Polypropylene laminated 
packing materials. Alumi¬ 
nium and composite con- 


waste covered by item (a) 
in Column 4 shall be allow¬ 
ed only upto 50% of the 
licence value within the 
Value of the licence. 

(1) If the products In column 2 
are exported with special 
packaging like Polypropy¬ 
lene bags/Pouches (heat 
sealed) Inserted In Duplex 
Board/coatod board car¬ 
tons of tuck-n-type and 
outer packing with shrink 
wrapping or overwrapplng 
with Plastic films, the 
Import replenishment ad¬ 
missible would be 10% 
instead of 6%. 


(1) Import of Tin Plate MR 
type covered by item (a) 
in col. 4 shall bo allowed 
only upto 50% of face 
value of the licence. 




268 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX n—Contd. 

1 2 ” ~~ " ~ ~ 3 ~~~ 4 - " 3 


O. FOODS —cone Id. 


talners, Tin plate Prime 
OTS quality/MR type, Card 
Board Cartons, Kraft Liner 
Paper. 

’b) Aluminium Foil. 

;c) Aluminium laminated Poly¬ 
ethylene and Built-up 
Pouches. 


(2) Import replenishment licen¬ 
ces issued under this S 
No, will also be valid for 
import of OTS Containers 
within the overall value of 
the licence. 


0.28 Mushroom* . -2% 


6.20 A»i A|U.3 J3 

OJU iplcs i D aad Ono rsehis . . . .453 


0.31 (/) Spices whole in bulk packing . . 3% 


(U) Spices ground or curry powder and 6% 
paste in bulk packing. 


(Ill) Spices whole or ground or curry 10% 
powder and paste in consumer packs 
of 1 kg. or less under brand names. 

H. handicrafts 


( 0 ) 


Packing materials, flz., (1) 
Glasine paper, kraft paper, 
card board cartons. Poly¬ 
ethylene strappings. Plastic 
box strappings. 


Against exports of Mush¬ 
rooms—canned, additional 
import replenishment at 5% 
of the fob value of export 
will be allowed for import 
of Tinplate prime OTS 
quality/MR typo as 
packing material. 


( 0 ) Packing material, r /«.„ 
LDPE. 


( 0 ) Packing materials, id*.. 
Tinplate prime O.T.S. 
quality/M.R. type, high 
density polyethylene pads 
and steel drums (epoxy 
lined). 


fh) Phenyl Ethyl Alcohol. 


( 0 ) Packing materials viz.. 
LDPE, Tinplate, Card¬ 
board cartons. 

(b) Polythene Woven Sacks, 

(a) Packing materials viz., 
LDPE, Tinplate Prime OTS 
quality/MR type. 

( b ) Polythene Woven sacks. 

(a) Packing materials viz., 
LDPE, Tinplate, Card¬ 
board cartons. 


General Notes 1 — 

(1) Articles which are classifi¬ 
able elsewhere in this po¬ 
licy will be deemed to be 
‘Handicrafts* falling in this 
group only if such articles, 
besides being made by 
hand, have some artistic 
or decorative value; they 
may or may not possess 
functional utility value in 
addition. Artistic or de¬ 
corative value of the article 
exported need not necessa¬ 
rily come out of any an 
work, engraving or de¬ 
coration done on the article 
but the very form, shape 
or design of the article 
could also be artistic and 
suggestive or the fact that 
the article is primarily 
meant for decorative and 
not for utility purposes 

(2) For the purpose of calcu¬ 
lating Rfep benefits on 
export of Handicrafts con¬ 
taining not more than 50% 
silver by weight, the been' 
sing authority will exclud. 
the value of silver from the 
f.o-b. value of the expon 





(iTFTl— WS l) 


RF<r w TPPTvr - w^iaRur 


269 


APPENDIX 17— Corua. 


1 2 3 

H. HANDICRAFTS— Concld. 


Hi Handicrafts of aluminium, copper, brass, 40% 

bidn, bronze, bell metal and white metal. 


H.2 Bells and other handicrafts made of wrought 10 % 

Iron and coated with copper. 

H.4 Real and Imitation lari, znrl woven/em- 30% 

broidery materials (excluding zarl woven 
sarecs, yardage and garmeots) and Zarl 
embroldeted pieces. 

H.6 Handicrafts of paper and psper-machls 10% 

lined with copper or bras*. 

H.8 Manufactures of Marble or Alabaster Inlaid 6% 

with seml-preclous stones. 


H.9 Other Handicrafts (excluding woollen car 6% 

pots, rugs and druggets and silk carpets), 
such as wood carvings, hand bags, etc. 


H.IO Handmade lac# and lace goods 6% 


4 


3 


product, The balance f.o.b. 
value of export will only be 
eligible for REP benefits if 
otherwise admissible under 
the policy. Applications 
should be accompanied by 
a Chartered Accountant 
or a Government labora¬ 
tory certificate Indicating 
the quantity of sliver con¬ 
tent and Its value used in 
the export product based 
on which the licensing 
authority will work out 
the REP entitlement after 
excluding th« value of 
■liver. 


(a) Copper wire bars (70 %). 

(b) Zinc (30%). 

(c) Tin (15%). 

( d) Aluminium. 


(a) Copper wire burs. 


(3) If Handicrafts contain more 
than 50 % silver by weight, 
no REP benefits will be 
admissible thereon. 

(1) import of Item (c) will be 
allowed only against export 
of Bidrl and Bell Metals. 

(2) Import of Item (d) only 
will be allowed against 
export of handicrafts of 
aluminium. 

(3) Exporters of EPNS Wares, 
who are registered with 
Development Commis¬ 
sioner for Handicrafts, will 
not be required to be 
reglste red with Engineering 
Export Promotion Council. 


(a) Copper wire bars. 

(, b ) Raw Silk (10%). 

(c) Emery polishing paper. 


(o) Copper wire bar*. 
(6) Zinc. 


(a) Metal fittings (25 %). 

(b) Glass Chatons and beads 

(c) Semi-precious stone* 


(a) Locks and metal fittings 
(25%). 

(ft) Glass chatons and beads. 

(cj Zip fasteners (40 %). 

(a) Semi-precious stone*. 


(1) This Serial Number does 
not cover export of metallic 
yam and polyester metal¬ 
lised film. 


(1) Additional Import reple¬ 
nishment at 5% of f.o.b. 
value of export* will be 
allowed for Import of semi¬ 
precious stones only against 
exports of Manufactu re* 
of Marble or Alabaster In¬ 
laid with semi-precious 
stones. 


(I) Import of Zip fasteners 
will be allowed only against 
exports of hand bags co¬ 
vered by this Serial Num¬ 
ber. 


(a) Packing materials, tit., 
LDPE, Polypropylene, 
Kraft paper (23%). 
it) Dyes In Appendix 3, 

(e) HydrosulphJts of sods 

( 10 %). 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17 —Contd 


L CASHEW KERNFAb 
Li Cashew Kernel* 


Polyethylene Moulding 
Powder, Polypropylene 
Laminated packing mate¬ 
rial*, Al umini um and com¬ 
posite containers. Tin plate 
prime/OTS quality/M.R, 
type. Cardboard cartons, 
krafi liner paper. 


J. TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS 


J.l 

Unmanufactured tobacco , . 

3% 

(a) 

Oval galvanised both ten¬ 
sile steel wire. 




(6) 

Corrugated Fibre Board 
Boxes. 




(c) 

Kraft Paper Including 
Waterproof Kraft Paper. 

1.2 

Processed Tobacco, e.g., Zarda, Snuff. 
Kimam and hookka paste. 

2% 

(a) 

Packing materials. Viz.. 
Card Board Boxes, Tin 
plate waste 1 waste. LDPB 
aDd aluminium foil. 

1.3 

Cigarettes (Including Pipe tobacco) . 

6% 

(a) 

Unmanufactured tobacco. 




(*) 

Packing material!, viz.. 
Cartons and Card Board 
for Cartons. Cellophane, 
Aluminium foil 

1.4 

Cigars t 




1.4.1 

Cigars made with Indigenous filter tobacco 

13% 

(a) 

Cigar wrapper tobacco. 




<« 

Packing materials, rfs.. 

tissue paper (23%). 

L4.2 

Cigars made with ImportQd filter tobacco. 

60% 

<o) 

Filter tobacco. 




<») 

Cigar Wrapper tobecw. 


• 


(«) 

Packing malarial, ' tit., 
tissue paper (3%). 

1.1 

Bldli . 

2% 


Packing materials, rfr„ 


Card board carton*. 


K. TEXTILES 


(1) Against exports of Cashew 
kernels, roasted and salted. 
In consumer packs, tbe Items 
of Import will be the pack¬ 
ing materials mentioned In 
Column 4 and Aluminium 
foil. Aluminium laminated 
polyethylene and built ap 
pouches. 

{2) Import replenishment licen¬ 
ce Issued under thli Serial 
Number will alto be valid 
for Import of OTS con¬ 
tainers within the vatu* of 
the licence. 

(3) Import of Tin plate MR 
type Covered by Item (a) 
in column 4 shall bo 
allowed only upto 30 % of 
valuo within the value of 
tbe the licence. 


Oeaemi Note* t— 

(1) Import of packing material 
like printed poly-bags/poly • 
propylene bags will be alio- 
trod upto .13* % of the 
import replenishment per¬ 
centage admissible against 
exports of made-up article* 
covered by this Product 
Group. Where column 4 
indicates a separate entry of 
packing material, the import 
of printed poly-bag* wifi be 
allowed only rwlthln tb* 
value earmarked for Import 
of packing material. 



'RTT'T “PT . SWTaTCGT 


271 


(<mr i—?! 1) 


APPENDIX 17-— Contd. 

1 2 3 4 3 


L COTTON TECT1USS 

E.l Cotton yam, fabrics and made-up articles, 10% 

Including embroidered (other than grey) 


(a) Titanium dioxide (Rutile 
Grade). 

(b) SUtoone Emulsion*. 

(e) Sodium Hydrotulphlte 

(3%). 

id) Bronze Powder (124 %). 

(e) ParafBn Wax (25%). 

(/) Dye* In Appendix 3 

( 10 %). 


(1) Export ol cotton fabric* 
(other than grey) will only 
qualify for import reple¬ 
nishment licence. Thit 
restriction will not apply to 
export of hondloom fabric*. 

(2) Cotton durriee are covered 
by the description in co¬ 
lumn 2 against this Serial 
Number 


(3) Import of Zip Fasteners 
including zip colls will bo 
allowed upto 3% of the 
face voluo of the licence 
against export of made-up 
articles only. 


H. WOOLLEN TEXTILES 

E.l Worsted yarn, woollen fabrics and mad# 

up article*, including *mbrold«r*d, 
containing more than 50% wool/ 

Mohe.tr by weight!— 

(f) Wonted yarn/fabrlca/madr up article* 20% 
Incladlca embroidered 


(//) Othors.20% 


EL3 Worsted yam, woollen fabrics and made 

up articles, including embroidered, con¬ 
taining 50% or less but not less than 
20% wool /Mohair by weight [(other 
than those covered by SI. No. K.l 3(111)] l— 

(0 Worsted yarn/fabrics/made up artl- 13% 
cl**, including embroidered. 


(II) Other*. 


131 


1C * Shoddy/woollen blankets, blanketing cloth, 30 % 

»oarvei/itolei made of blanketing cloth, 
tweeds, blazer and valoun, containing 
more than 30% wool by weight. 


la) Raw Woo). 

lb) Polyester tops (20%). 

(c) Packing materials, *t« „ 
LDPB. Polypropy¬ 
lene, kreft paper (10 $11. 


(1) Import of Mohair tops 
will however b« allo¬ 
wed again it export* of 
product* falling under thin 
Serial Number and con¬ 
taining more than 302 
Mohair by weight 


(a) Wolicnyam, 

( b ) Polyester tops (20 %). 

(e) Packing materials, tIm., 
LDPE/Polypropylene, 
kraft paper (10%). 


(1) Import of Mohair yam (In 
stead of woollen yarn) will 
be allowed against exports 
of products falling under 
this Serial Number and 
containing more than 30% 
Mohair by weight. 


(a) Same aj against SI. No. 

K.2(0- 


(1) Import of Mohair top* 
however will be allowed 
^against exports ol pro¬ 
ducts falling under this 
Serial Number and con¬ 
taining 50% or less but not 
less than 20% Mohair by 
weight. 


(a) Same as against SL No. 

K.200. 


(1) Impoit of Mohair yarn (In¬ 
stead of woollen yarn) will 
be allowod against exports 
of products falling under 
this Serial Number and 
containing 50% or loss' but 
not less than 20% Mohal? 
by weight. 


(a) Synthetic wests (40%) 

(b) Wool Waits. 

(e) Packing matriels. rfs., 
LDPB, Polypropylene, 
krafl paper (30%), 


■ I 


(f) Namdbu and Rugs containing mors 13% 
than 30% wool by weight. 


(a) Wool waste. 

(b) Packing material. vie., 
LDPB (10%). 



272 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17— Conta. 


I 2 3 

II. WOOLLEN TEXTILES— Coneld. 

(II) Woollen Carpets, Druggets and Durrles 10% 
containing more than 30% wool by weight 


K.6 Crewel Embroidery tabrlci and mado-up 3% 

article* 


(IL NATURAL SILK. TEXTILES 

K.7 (1) Thread, yarn, fabrics and made-up 30% 

articles containing 100% natural silk 
by weight. 


(it) Thread, yarn, fabrics and made-up 20% 

articles, including embroidered con¬ 
taining more than 50% natural 6ilk 
by weight. 

(Ill ) Thread, yarn, fabric* and made-up 10% 

article*. Including embroidered contain¬ 
ing leu than 30% but noi l«u than 
20% aatnral silk by weight 

K 8 Silk Carper* i- 

(() Containing inor* than 30 % natural ilik *0% 
by weight. 

(II) Containing 30% or loa* but not Ua* 23% 
than 20% natural ailk by weight 

iY CELLULOS1C TEXTILES 

B.9 Fabrics and made-op article* including em¬ 

broidered and yarn i— 

(/) made of vUco»o/polyno*ic/cupromanlac 10% 
fibre«/yam. 


(II) made of other calluloalc flbru/yarn . 10% 


K.10 Rayon tyra ynra/cord/fabrie. 10% 


V. NON-CELLULOSIC TEXTILES 

K.l I Fabric* and mada-np art Ids*. Including am- 

broldarad and yam i— 

(!) made of acrylic fibre 10% 

(li) mad* of ott**r »o*-o*IU'o»la gbrelyatt*. 10% 



(n) Sodium Hydroaulphlt* 

( 10 %). 

(ft) Polyetbylen# moulding 
powder. 

(c) Wool Waste. 

(o) Packing matarla) *t»., (l) Import of zip fastenen will 

LDPB. be allowed against export* 

of band bap made of 
crewel embroidery fabric* 


(a) Raw Silk. (1) Import of Tussar raw silk 

(ft) Silk worm seeds, silk will be allowed against the 
spun yarn and noil yarn. Import replenishment liceo- 

(e) Chemicals permitted aga- ce for a value not exceeding 
Inst SI. No. K.l excluding 3% of the value of th* 

paraffin wax (10%). licence, within tbo valut 

(if) Doing md lnterllnlni earmarked for the Import 

materials of width not of raw silk 

exceeding 87| cms. exclu- (2) Import of item fd) m Col- 

ding nylon taffeta coated nmn-4 will be allowed only 

fabrics. agalnat axport* of Tie* 


(o) Same as against SI. No (1) Same as Remark (I) against 
K.7(i). * SI. No. lC.7(i). 

(2) Same as Remark (21 aga in at 
Si. No. K.7(i). 

to) Same a* again*' II No (1) 3am* a* Remark (1) igaint t 
K.f(I). SI No K.T(l) 

1) time a* Remark ( 2 ' »gal*o 
II No KTfl) 


(a) Spun allk yarn. 

(ft) Chorolcals pemuted agalnat 
SI. No. K.l excluding Para¬ 
ffin Wax (5 %) 


(a) Same hi again*! SI. No 
K.l. txcludmg paraffin wax 


(a) Same a* again*! SI. No. 
K.l excluding paraffin wax 

(«) Sulphur 
(ft) Zinc (13%). 


(o) Sam* ** agalnat SI. No. 
K 1 excluding paraffin wax, 

(a) Sam* a* again** SI. No. 
K.l axclndlng paraffin wax. 


(1) Import of I’VC Scqulnt 
Glass Beads, Spangle* and 
Plastic Pearl* will bo allow¬ 
ed uplo 5 % of the fm c 
value of the licence within 
tho value of ih* llcoru c 
agalnai export of tmbroi- 
dcred fabrics and embroi¬ 
dered made-up article* 

(1) Same a* Remark (I) against 
SI. No, K.9(i) 



('(TFT I —m l) 


KTTOT 7TT FTrra ■ WntTF^ 


273 


APPENDIX 17 — Conta. 

1 2 3 4 S 


V. NON-CELLULOSJC TEXTILES—Can c/J. 

(Ill) made of non-ceHukwlc filament yarn. 10 % 

(tv) non-celluloslc quilted fabrio* and qull- 10% 
ted blanket!. 

(v) Carpets/blankets/namdhas/druggtt* 30% 

made of 100% synthetic fibre/yarn. 


2 Nylon tyre yarn/cord/fabncs . 60% 

MIXED/BLENDED TEXTILES 

3 Mlxed/blendcd yam. fabrics, and made-up 

articles, (Deluding embroidered s— 

(0 made from a combination of two or 10% 
more of any fibre! 

(It) made fiom ■ combination of two or 10% 
moia of synthetic ’(ament yam 
(III) made from ■ combination of any 10% 
filament yam and fibre. 

(if) not alsewhar* tpeclfied .10% 


(r) Synthetic ote<iX*t*/Naindhai/druggeli>/ 30% 
carpets containing mora than 
50% Synthetic content 

L. CINEMATOGRAPH FILMS (EXPOSED) 


(a) Same as against SI. No. 

K.l excluding paraffin wax. 
(a) Same as against SI. No. 
K.1. excluding paraffin wax. 

a) Synthetic Waste. 

b) Packing materials, viz., 
LDPE, Polypropylene, 
Kraft paper (30%). 

(a) Caprobtctum. 


(a) Same as against SI. No. 
K.l excluding parafin wax. 

(a) Same as against SI. No. 

K.l excluding parafin wax. 
(a) Same as against SI. No. 

K.l exclduing peraffin wax. 
(a) Same as against SI. No. 
K I excluding paraffin wax. 

(a) Same a* against SI. No 
K.4 


OlNERAL NOTBS I— 


(1) Video taped film* nr* 
covered by the respective 
Serial Numbers In this 
Group. Import of blank 
video cassettes (25%) will 
be allowed within the over¬ 
all value of the llconci 
against export of video 
taped films. 


L.l 


Cinematograph films, exposed (feature 10% 
films). 


(а) 

(б) 
(0 

(d) 

(e) 


Cinematograph film, not 
exposed, colour (all types). 
16 and 35 mm sound mag¬ 
netic tapes (11 %). 

1/4' sound magnetic tapes 

0%). 

Sprocketed magnetic tapes 
(5%). 


Blank video cassettes 


(5%). 


(I) The replenishment • percen¬ 
tage shown in column 3 
wiU be 40% if royalty/ 
distribution or other simi¬ 
lar charges arc shown sepa¬ 
rately in tho export docu¬ 
ments and are not included 
in the f.o.b. value of 
exports. 


L 2 Documentaries and advcrtlsiag film*. 26 JJ 

exposed—black and whit*. 


(a) Same aa Item* (a) to («) il) Import of (a) & (6) la 
against SI. No. L.l. Col. 4 will be allowed only 

of the sizes of films actually 
exported. However, this 
restriction will not apply la 
the case of Import of 
permissible negative raw 
■took. 


1.5 


L 4 

L 6 


Documentaries and advertising films, 
ex posed—colour 


News film* end T V. Films (both black 
and white and colonr). 


50% j 

t (a) Same as Item* (a) to (e) 
f against SI. No. L.l. 


50% J 


fl) Import of (a) and ( b ) In 
Col. 4 will be allowed only 
of the sizes of films actually 
exported. However, this 
restriction will not apply In 
tbe case of Import of per¬ 
missible negative raw stock. 


23% 


(a) Photographic films inclu¬ 
ding photographic printing 
paper (colour). 


Fllll News Photos 





274 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX l?—- 


M. COIR PRODUCTS 

M.I.2 Coir Product* 


M.1.3 Rubberised Coir product* 


H. NATUfcO, FIBRH PRODUCTS 

S.l Ropes, Twines tad oordngs of slMl/manlla 

N 2 Mat* and matting* of (1stI 


10% (a) Dyes in Appendix 3 (5 %). (1) Additional Import reple- 

(6) Sulphur (10 %), oishment at 15% of the 

(c) Packing materials, rh,, f.o.b. value of exports will 
LDPB, Polypropylene be provided for Import of 

Sisal fibre against export of 
mat* and mattings of mix- 
turn of coir yam and sisal. 


30% 


(а) Sulphur. 

(б) Packing material ttj., 
LDPE. 


(1) Coir products with rubber 
backing will also qualify 
for REP under tbl* serial 
number. 


45 % (a) Sisal fibre/waste, 

(b) Manila fibre tow/wasto 

40% (a) glntfibr*. 


O. READYMADE GARMENTS, HOSIERY A 
KNITWEAR 


OwNdKAi. Noras i— 


(1) The respective serial num¬ 
bers In this group would 
cover embroidered gar¬ 
ments. hosiery and knit¬ 
wear also. 


(2) Applications for import 
licences shall be accompanied 
by a test report issued by 
the Textile Committee/ Cus¬ 
toms (or Central Silk Board 
in tho case of Natural Silk 
garments, hosiery and knit¬ 
wear), and Development 
Commissioner for Handi¬ 
crafts, wherever necessary 
in addition to other pres¬ 
cribed documents. (Such certi¬ 
ficate will not be required in 
respect of (/) export of Colton 
garments and hosiery and 
(II) salos to foreign tourists.) 
In tho case of sales to foreign 
tourists, the application for 
REP licence should be acc¬ 
ompanied by a declaration 
of the applicant as to the 
contents of flbre/yam used in 
tho product exported. 

(3) In tho case of Trimmings 
and Embellishments. Import 
of tho group nf Items Covered 
by each of tbs following 
items i— 

(() Snap Fas ten or* and /,\v 
Fasteners (Including 
dp* In colls and lu 
component*)] 

ill) Pearl headed pin* - 
stapling pins/industrial 
Stapling machines: and 

(lit) Tag guns/Tag Guo 
Needles. 




['dml-STT ij 


HTFFT TT3TTW : tmTETR'ir 


275 


APPENDIX 17— Conid, 


1 2 3 4 __3 

O. READYMADE GARMENTS, HOSIERY"* KNITWEAR— Contd. 

•ball Qot exceed 3 % of the 
value of the licence subject 
lo a maximum of Rs. 
50,000. Within this value, 
import of Industrial Stap¬ 
ling Machines 4 in numbers 
or for Rs. 10,000 which¬ 
ever la less and Tag Guns 
for Rs. 2,000 will be 
allowed. For other Items, 
the Import shall not 
exceed Rs. 1 lakh per item 
within the overall value 
of the licence. 

(4) Import of 4 d ummi es not 
exceeding 25 % of the value 
of the licence will be 
allowed against each REP 
licence issued against quar¬ 
terly entitlement on exports 
covered by this product 
group. Requestsfot Import 
of more than 4 dummies 
will be considered by the 
CCI&E, on merits, on the 
recommendation of Textile 
Commissioner, 


O.l Cotton ready-made garments, hosiery and 15% (a) Trimmings and cmbellltb- 

knltwear. ments, tne following l— 

(I) Elastic cloth in running 
length Including elastic 
cloth to tubular form 
with width not exceeding 
V.5 cm. 

(If) Buckles, hooks and bars. 

(Ill) Collar itarx/coUar pat- 
lles/batterf y/she uVet 
pads aad othst gar¬ 
ments stays. 

(f») Lacan of act mot» than 
7,5 cm width C»0%) 

(») Papor Pattemi/Plnstlc 
Patterns. 

(»0 Lining and inter-lining 
materials of width not 
exceeding 87* cm*, exclrn 
ding nylon taffeta coated 
fabrics (10%). 

(rll) Searing thread including 
ill types of embroidery 
threads made from man¬ 
made fibres, purs silk 
and/or mixed fibres of 
cotton and mao-made 
fibres. 

(rill) Polyester buttons blanks/ 
Polyester buttona/Pearl 
buttons/Plastlo buttons/ 
Chalk buttons/Hom 
buttons/Metal Buttons, 

(ti) Pearl headed pins/ 
stapling pins and Indus¬ 
trial stapling machines. 

( x ) Labels Including woven, 
printed stickers, stone 
stickers, iclf-adheaives 
and metal labels. 



276 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17 —Contd. 

1 2 3 4 5 

O. READYMADE GARMENTS, HOSIERY & KNITWEAR— contd. 


•.2 


Woollen ready-made garment*, hosiery and 
knitwear containing more than soy. 
wool by weight. 


205 ! 


0 xi ) Studs 


(xW) Tags/Tag guna/Tag 
gun needles. 

(xlU) Snap and Zip 
Fasteners, 

(xlv) PVC leather cloth 
(1 %)- 

(xv) Elastic tape and webbing 
(Including neat resisting 
rubber tape/thread) 

(xrl) Vapoprtnl trantfei 
papers. 


(ifti) Thermoplastic transfer 
papers. 

( xvlil ) Fusible embroidery 

motifs or prints. 

(xlx) Metallic Yarn (Lurex 
Yarn) (5%) 

fxx) Artificial Leather cloth and 
Rcxin and Artificial Fur 
cloth (3%) 

(b) Chemicals and other pro¬ 
cessing materials, ths fol¬ 
lowing t— 

(t) Titanium Dloxlds 
(Rutile grade) (10 X). 

(i/) Naphthenic acid. 

(Ill) Silicone Emulsions. 

(/v) Cellulose acetate films 
with one side matte 
surface used by screen 
printers of textiles for 
screen making. 

(r) Sodium Hxdroealpblte 

(r<) Bronze powdor (3%). 

(vf() Paraffin War (10%). 


(c) Packing materials, namely. 
Polyethylene Moulding 
Powder/Printed Polypropy¬ 
lene Bags and Polypropy¬ 
lene. 

(a) Trimmings and embellish¬ 
ments as allowed against 
SI. No. 0.1. 

( b ) Packing materials as allow¬ 
ed against SI. No. 0.1. 

(c) Raw wool/Mohair,tops and 
woollen yarn/Mohair yam, 

(<f) Fine Animal Hair. 

It) Synthetic waste/wool waste. 


(1) The export product It 
Column 2 covers woratet 
woollen and shoddy items 
Import of Raw wool/Mohal. 
tops and woollen yam/ 
Mohair yam will be allowed 
only against exports of 
hosiery and knitwear falling 
under this serial number. 

(2) Import of fine Animal hair 
will be allowed only where 
this item has been used In 
the product exported, and 
additional 3% Import rep¬ 
lenishment will also be 
provided for Import of tbli 
flam. 



wpfr w ■ twnrrw 


277 


(«TFT I—<3T l) 


APPENDIX n—Comd. 

1 “ 2 3 _ 4 

O. READYMADE GARMENTS, HOSIERY & KNITWEAR— concld. 


3 


0.3 


0.4 


0 5 

o.« 

O.T 


OS 


(3) Import of synthetic waste/ 
wool waste will be allowed 
only against exports of 
over coats and other ready¬ 
made garments made from 
woollen blanketing cloth. 
Additional Import reple¬ 
nishment at 8% of f.o.b. 
value of exports will also 
be allowed for Import of 
synthetic waste/wool waste 
against exports of over¬ 
coats and other readymade 
garments made from wool¬ 
len blanketing cloth. 


Woollen ready-made garments, hosiery and 13% (a) Items (a) to (d) as allowed (1) The export product In 

knitwear containing 30% or less but not against SI. No. 0.2. Column 2 covers worsted 

lees than 20% of wool by weight. woollen and shoddy Items. 

ImportofRawwool/Mohair 
tops and woollen yam will 
be allowed oniy against 
exports of hosiery aDd knit¬ 
wear falling under this 
serial number. 

12) Import of fine Animal hair 
wlU be allowed only where 
this Item has been used In 
the product exported, and 
additional 10% import rep¬ 
lenishment will also be 
provided for import of this 
hem. 


(I) Natural silk ready-made ferments, 
hosiery and knitwear containing more 
than 30% of natural silk by weight. 


(II) Natural silk ready-made garments, 
hosiery and knitwear containing 50% 
or less but not less than 20 % of natural 
silk by weight. 


13% (a) Raw silk. 

(b) Trimmings and embellish¬ 
ments as allowed against 
SI. No. 0.1. 

(c) Chemicals as allowed aga¬ 
inst SI. No. 0.1. 

(d) Packing materials as allow¬ 
ed against SI. No. 0.1. 

10% (a) Items (o) to (d) as showed 

against SI. No. 0.4fl). 


tl) Import of Tussar raw silk 
will be allowed against 
the Import replenishment 
licence for a value not 
exceeding 5% of the value 
of the licence, within the 
value earmarked for the 
Import of raw silk 

(1) Same as Remark (1) a gainst 
SI. No. 0-4(1). 


ktady-made garments, hosiery tod knit¬ 
wear made of rayon filament yarn 
and/or rayon staple fibre or from * 
combination thereof with cotton. 

Hosiery and knitwear made of nylon/ 
polyester/aery Uc/aceta to filament yam. 
or any combination thereof. 

Ready-made garments made of I— 

(0 Acetate fibre/yam 


(H) Synthetic fibre/yarn 


(Ul) Mixed/hlcnded material containing 
synthetic flbre/yam more than 30 % 
by weight. 

Ready-made garments, hosiery and knit¬ 
wear, not elsewhere specified. 


13% (o) Items (a) to (c) as allowed 

against SI. No. 0.1. exclu¬ 
ding parefln wax. 

13% (») Items (a) to (c) as allowed 

against SI. No. 0.1. excluding 
paraffin wax. 


13% (o) Items (a) to (c) as allowed 

against SI. No. 0.1 excluding 
paraffin wax. 

13% (o) Items (a) to (c) as allowed 

against SI. No. 0.1 excluding 
paraffin wax. 

13% (d) Items (a) to (c) as allowed 

against SI. No. 0.1 excluding 
paraffin) wax. 

13% (o) Items (a) to (c) as allowed (1) PVC leather cloth or artl- 

against SI. No. 0.1 excluding fleial fur cloth will be 
para film wax. allowed to be Imported 

within the value of the 
REP licence against exports 
of products made thereof. 



278 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part J— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17 —<ontd 

2 ~~ 3 4 3 


P. GEM AND JEWELLERY 


General Noth i— 

(1) Necklaoe* strung or threa¬ 
ded with cut and polished 
preclous/wml-preclous ito- 
nes/pcllshed and processed 
pearl* will also fall under 
respective entries below and 
replenishment allowed acco¬ 
rdingly provided the 
value of metal fitting* 
namely clip*, clasp*, pin*, 
book* etc. 1* negligible ana 
tucb value 1* excluded. 

(2) Export of Gem & Jewellery 
Items, except those covered 
by SI. No. P.6 In thi* 
group to Rupee payment 
Area will qualify for the 
grant of Import replenish¬ 
ment lloence* valid for 
Imports only from the 
Rupee Payment Area. 

(3) In reepect of export* of 
products falling under SI. 
No. P 6.1, P.6.4 and PP.S 
In this group. Import llcenoe 
may, on request, be made 
valid for Import of glass 
chaton* (stock lots). But 
In such cases, the import 
replenishment will stand 
reduced from 331% to 
30%. 

(4) REP licence* issued against 
export* of products covered 
by 81. No. P.2.1 to P.Z6 
under this Product Group 
will be valid for Import of 
(I) Special Industrial adhe- 
•ives/gums/solution* used 
In Gem and Jewellery 
Industry and (II) Synthetic 
diamond powder for a total 
value upto one per cent of 
the licence value subject to 
■ maximum of R*. one lakh 
within the overall value of 
the licence. 


p.l 

polithed, (processed Pearls (Roll or 
cultured). 

33% 

P.2.1 

Cut and polished Diamond* 

«J% 


P.2.2 

Cut and polished Diamonds . 

#3% 

P.2.3 

Cui and polished Diamonds . 

. w% 

P.2,4 

Cut and polished Diamonds . 



(a) Real or cultured Pearl* 
unsct/undrilled. 

(a) Diamonds unset and uncut. (1» In ceso of export* of out 

and polished diamond* 
where the minimum per 
carut realisation is not less 
than R* 1,500, the reple¬ 
nishment will be a* Indi¬ 
cated against Si. Nog, P.2.3, 
P.2.4, P.2 3 and P.2.6 
depending on the value 
realisation. 


(a) Diamond* unsciand uncut. 

(ol Diamond* umetand uncut. (1) The minimum per carat 

realisation should be not 
less than Rs. 1,500. 

(a) Diamond* unsetHiv.1 uncut, tl) The minimum pci cflrat 

realisation should be not 
less than Rs. 2,000 



'fll TfSFW 


279 


[hpt I —or 1] 


APPBN DLX— 17— Consd. 


1 2 
P. GEM AND JEWELLERY— Coatd. 


9 


4 


5 


(2) Import replenishment at 
78% of f.o.b. value of 
export# will be admissible 
on exports of out and 
polished diamonds for 
Import of diamonds unset 
eno uncut of sewn variety 
provided t— 

(I) The exporter has de¬ 
clared in the customs 
attested Invoice that 
cut and polished dia¬ 
monds exported and 
covered by the Invoice 
were actually manufac¬ 
tured out of Imported 
diamonds unset and 
uncut of sawn variety. 

(II) The minimum per carat 

realisation Is not less 
than Rs 2,500/-. 


P.2.3 


P.2.6 


P.3.1 


P.3.2 


Cut and polished Diamond# . . 80% (a) Diamond# Quiet and uncut. (11 Th# minimum per carat 

realisation should ba not 
less tbs n R i 3,000. 

(2) Import replenishment at 
83% of f.o.b. value of 
exports will be admissible 
onfexports of cut and 
polished diamonds for im¬ 
port of diamonds unset and 
uncut of sawn variety pro¬ 
vided i— 


(I) The exporter has de¬ 
clared In the custom# 
attested Invoice that 
cut and polished dia¬ 
monds exported and 
covered by the invoice 
were actually manu¬ 
factured out of impor¬ 
ted diamonds unset 
and uncut of sawn 
variety. 

(II) The minimum per 
carat realisation Is not 
less than Rs. 3,500. 

Cut and polished Diamond- . . 87% (<») Diamond# unset arid uncut. (1) The size of oacb diamond 

exported should he . 3 of a 
carat and bJxtvo with a 
minimum per carat reali¬ 
sation of not less than 
Rs. 3,300 per carat 

Cut and polished Braeraids/Rubles/Sapphl- 80% (a) Emerald# uncut ai»d awet. 

rw, of Rs. 3,000aadabove peroaratf o.b, (ft) Ruble# uncut and unset. 

(c) Sapphire# uncut and unset. 


Cut and polished precious slnnes/setm- 63% 
precious stones not covered by 81 No. 

P 3 1. 


(а) Precious or seml-preclou# (1) 
stone*, unset and uncut 

(б) Coial unprepared, or coral 
sticks not cut to anv shape 

or size against export of (2) 
cut and polished coral. 

(c) Rough seml-preclou# stones 
In tumbled/broken/sliced/ 
damaged form. 


In respect of exports of 
semi-precious stones, the 
rate of replenishment will 
bo 60% instead of 653. 

In respect of exports of 
semi-precious stone# from 
tumbfed/broken/ sliced/ da¬ 
maged rough semi-predous 
stones, the replenishment will 
he 60% instead of 63%. 



280 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDNARY 


[Part i—S ec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17— Coma. 


t*. C-l.M AND jewellery— Consd. 

P.3.3 Cut aod polished onyx. 

P.4 Jewellery containing gold, sliver, platinum 

or palladium and studded/strung witb 
diamonds, procious or semi-precious 
stones real or cultured pearls synthetic/ 
imitation stones provideo the value of 
syntbetic/imitation stones does not 
exceed 10% of tbe f.o.b. value of Jewel¬ 
lery excluding the value of metal. 


50% 


(a) Sliced onyx. 


63% (a) Diamonds, uncut and unsci (1) 


ib) 


(C) 


Precious or semi-precious 
stones, unset and uncut 


Real or cultured 
unset/uod rilled. 


pearls. 


Export o. uojo Jewellery 
will be subject to such 
restrictions as may be im¬ 
posed by Gold Control 
Administration and by thg 
Rose rve Bank of India. 
Studded/strung Jewellery 
containing synthetic oi 
Imitation stones exceeding 
10% of the value of jewel¬ 
lery excluding the value of 
metal. In addition to the 
diamonds, precious o r sentl- 
piodou? stones and/or 
pearls are excluded from 
tie scops of this Item. 


(3) Precious metal Jewellery a» 
described under Col. 2 will 
bo covered under SI. No. 
P.4 provided the value of 
precious metal gold, 
silver, platinum or palla¬ 
dium is not less than 70% 
of totu value of tnotal used 
therein or studded Jewel¬ 
lery containing In whole or 
in part, metal other than 
gold, silver, platinum or 
palladium and studded/ 
strung with diamonds, 
pearls. preclous/semi- 
precious stones will also be 
grouped under SI. No. P.4 
for the purposes of Import 
repienlsbmuPt, provided 
the value of the studding*/ 
stringing a mown* to 90% 
or above o. the total f.o.b. 
value. 

( 4 ) For the purpose of deter¬ 
mining the f.o.b. value, the 
value of mjtal as shown in 
the custo>ns attested Invoice 
will bo evcluded. Similarly 
making cha gen In excess o! 
23% of the value of jewel¬ 
lery excluding the value of 
motal will also be excluded, 


(3) Replenlsbii ent of dia¬ 
monds, un ut and onset 
precious j semi-precious 
stones, uncut and unset 1 
real or cultured pearls 
unset/undrilied shall DC 
allowed in pro|toruon to 
the fo.b. value content of 
diamonds, uncut and u.ivet; 
precious or semi-pi ecious 
stones, unset and uncut) 
and real or cultured pearl , t 
unset/undrflied, respec¬ 
tively used as contained in 
the exported product, as 
declared by the oxporter 
sad duly attested by the 
custom i n the Invoice. No 
interchangeability of the 
aforesaid studding mate¬ 
rials inter-.se shall bo 
allowed. 



[<RFT I—t*¥ l] 


*TPVT ¥TT XTSTO : 


281 


Ai't'fcNDi A j /—LOnw. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


It 


P. Gem AND JEWELLERY— Comd 

PV1 Ouf or polished svnrnenc stones 30% (a) Rougb synthetic «nones. >it Production of ..wonts 

itiestod invoices is not 
required lor claiming rep¬ 
lenishment. 

(2) Import of Cubic Zlrconii 
will not be permitted undei 
rough synthetic stone* 
tgatrt't th's Serial Number 


P.6 

P.51 


Itnttadon/Costume Jewelle-y | 

Imitation Jevvellery/Costume Jewellers 13J% 
studded or strung with synthehc/imi- 
totlon stonos/plastic beads, wooden beads, 
glass beads, false pearls, glass chatons 
■tc, r 


(а) Glass ueada, f.’&« pert e j 
and glass chatorts. 

(б) Rough synthetic stones, 

(c) Metal fitting*, findings, 

components and access'v' 
lies required for imitation 
irwelleiy 


\i. Only jewellery t.-iaite of 
metals other than precious 
metals referred to m SI. 
No. P.4 will bo covered by 
this entry. In other words, 
only jewellery madfc of 
base metal like aluminium 
copper, brass, e*c. and 
studded isti ung with synthe- 
hc/imitation stones/plastic 
bead, wooden beads, etc. 
would fall under this 
51. No, Base metal Imita¬ 
tion jewellery studded/ 
strung with semi-preclons 
.tones will also fall under 
this SI. No. 


(Ij Production of Custom 

t Bested invoices Is not 
emitted while claiming 

replenishment. 

(3l Cuff Links (including brass 
Cuff Links) studded with 
synthetic/imitation stones, 
decorated Cuff Links and 
gold plated Cuff Links will 
also fall under this SI. No. 

( 4 ) Import of Cubic Zirconla 
will not be permitted under 
rough synthetic stones 
against this Serial Number. 


P6 2 imitation Jewellery/Cuaturoc Jewellery Plain 10% (a) Metal fittings, findings, (1) Jhumka, rings, finger rings, 

(other than those specified under Si. No components and cccesso- belts, necklaces, gbungroos 

P.6.1), rtes required for imitation etc. made of base metals 

jewellery. such ns aluminium and 

“Gillet", will also fall under 
this Si. No. Brass Cuff 
Links other than those 
covered by S. No. P.6.1, 
will also fall under thl* 
SI. No. 

(Z) Production of Customs 
attested invoices is not 
required while claiming rep¬ 
lenishment. 


P.6.3 Silver Filigree and Silver Filigree Jewellery 10% 

P.6.4 Jewellery made of gold, silver, platinum or 33J% 

palladium and studded with synthetic/ 
Imitation glass, stones, chatons, beads, 
false pearls, etc. with or without dia¬ 
monds, precious stones, semi-precious 
■torfc-s, reat/cultured pearls, 


(a) Meta! fittings, 

(a) Glass beads, false pearls (Jj If to price of gold and silver/ 

and glass chatuns, platinum and palladium 

(b) Rough synthetic stones. will be excluded from the 

f o.b, valut while calcula¬ 
ting replenishment. 

(2) This Serial No. will also 
cover a i tides of gold or 
silver and studded with 
synthetic/imitation glass 
stones, chatons, beads, false 
pearls with or without 
diamonds, precious stones, 
seml-prccious stones, real/ 
cultured pearls. 


58 GI/85—19. 



282 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—-Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 17— Concld. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


3 


P. OEM AND JEWELLERY— Concld. 

(3) The exports shall be sub¬ 
ject to such restrictions si 
may be Imposed by Gold 
Control Admlnistrattonand 
by the Reserve Bank of 
India. 


(4) Import of Cubic Zlrconis 
will not be permitted under 
rough synthetic stones 

•oflinit tTilft Serial Numtwr. 


PP. OEM AND JEWELLERY—SALES TO FOREIGN TOURISTS 


PP.l 

PP.2 

PP.3 

PP.4 


Processed and polished Pearls (real or 

cu'turod). 

Cut and polished Diamond) . 

Cut and polished precious or semi-precious 
stones including Turquoise stones. 

Oold, Platinum, Palladium, Silver jewel¬ 
lery studded with precious or semi¬ 
reclous stones, diamonds, real or cultured 
Pearl*. 


1 

i 

■(50%) 

. 


(a) Rough diamonds, uncut 
and unset, precious or semi¬ 
precious stones, uncut and 
unset. Pearls real or cul¬ 
tured unset/undrllled, rough 
■ynthetio stones, other Imi¬ 
tation stones. 


(1) The value of the bate 
metal t.g.. gold, silver, 
platinum and palladium 
will be excluded In com¬ 
putation of value of reple¬ 
nishment. The sale vou¬ 
chers should Indicate the 
value of metal separately. 

(2) The tale of gold Jewellery 
will be subject to such 
general Or special restric¬ 
tions as are imposed by 
the Gold Control Admlnsi- 
tration and by the Reserve 
Bank of India. 


PP 5 


Imitation Jewellery studded or strung with 331% 
glass boads, false pearls, imitation and 
synthetic stones 


(3) In the case of jewellery la 
whioh there Is an admix¬ 
ture of diamonds, proclous/ 
semi-precious stones and/ 
or pearls with any other 
variety of glass, imitation 
or synthetic stones, the 
Import replenishment win 
be 33*%. 

(4) Jewellery made of gold, 
platinum, palladium or 
silver and studded or 
strung with glass beads or 
synthetic stones with or 
without diamonds, pre- 
olous/seml-precloui stones 
or pearls will be considered 
only for 33J% Import 
replenishment. 

(I) Import of Cable ZJrooni* 
wlu not b* permitted undsr 
rough synthetic stones 
sgainst these Serial Num¬ 
bers 

(d) Import of Pearls real or 
emit sied. aaeet/aadrlHe4 
shall be allowed only nptu 
15% of th« value of the 
licence Blued s gainst export 
of prod nets mentioned In 
Col. I- 


(a) Glass beads, false psarlit (1) Import of Cublo Zlrconis 
glass batons. will not be permit tod under 

(6) Rough synthetic itonsi rough synthetic stones 

against t*-|s Serial Num¬ 
ber, 


(1) Import of Cubic Zlroonla 
will not be permitted under 
rough synthotlo stone 
against this Serial Nwnbe* 


PP.6 


Cutand polished synthetic stones 


23% 


(a) Rough synthetlo stones, 




(WPI I—** l) 


283 


APPENDIX 17— Concid. 


1 2 3 4 3 

Q. STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS Gsnixal Nsna l— 

( 1 ) In the case of product* 
covered by this group. In 
addition to tbe prescribed 
documents, production of 
Export Inspection Agency 
Certificate Indicating 
quality and type of material 
used will also be necessary. 

Q.l Stainless steel products containing stainless JO % (a) Stainless steel prime (1) Export of stainless steel 

steel content of not less than 80% by excluding melting scrap. watch cases will also qualify 

Weight. for import replenishment 

under this SI. Number. 

Q.2 Stainless Steel Castings, all type*. 20% (a) Stainless steel melting scrap. 

9. MISCELLANEOUS EXPORT PRODUCTS 

S 2 Vanaspati.6% (a) Tin Plate, 

S.4 Micanite insulating materials bonded with 3% ( 0 ) Synthetic resins In Appen- (1) Registering Authority Is 

synthetic resins. dlx 3. the Engineering Export 

Promotion Council. 

S.3 Postage[stamps whether uiedgor unused 33% ( 0 ) Postage stamps whether (1) Registering Authority Is 

used or unused. the Chemicals and Allied 

Products Export Promo¬ 
tion Council, Calcutta. 

(2) Import replenishment will 
be allowed only on pr o- 
dnotion of bank certificate 
showing receipt of foreign 
exchange against exports In 
addition to other prescribed 
documents. 

S.8 Animal/Poultry Peed compound.^Mango 4% ( 0 ) Packing material*, viz 1 (1) Registering Authority i* 

kernel oil and Sal seed oil. CRCA sheets, the Processed poods 

Export Promotion Connell, 
New Delhi. 






284 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


ANNEXURE TO APPENDIX—17 

Statement of Import-Replenishment admissible In cases covered by General Note (1) In Column 5 under Product Group : ‘A—Engineering 

Goods’ 


SI. No. 


Export Product 


Import Replenishment 
percentage 


A.1 


A.4 


A.7 


A.21 


A.22 


A.24 

A.5<5 

A.64 

A.7J 

A.78 

A.82 

A. 89 

A.93 

A.94 

A.97 

A.100 

A.I01 

A.102 


(/) Carbon steel forgings.* . 

(it) Alloy Steel forgings. . ... , 

Steel Wire and products made of such wire :— 

(а) Hi^h Carbon Steel Wire and products thereof 

(0 Galvanised/Electroplated/Copper coated /Bronze coated . 
(U) Ungalvanised and uncoated . 

(б) Steel Wire Roper. t— 

(0 Galvanised/electroplated ...... 

(H) Ungalvanised/electroplated , 

(c) Carbon steel welded wire mesh. 

Other ferrous manufacture* i— 

(/) Steel Pipes and tubes. 


Steel Pipes and Tubes (Galvanised) . 

(ir) High tensile Precision Industrial Fasteners 


(v) Transmission Line Towers (Galvanised). 

Air-conditioning and Referigeratlon equipment, Humidification, Ventilation and Air control equip¬ 


ment and spare parrs thereof 


Power equipment including alternators, generators, transformers, switchgear and control gear, 
motors, rectifiers and power capacitors 

Ui) Transform rs, . 

',«!: Switchgear, controlgear, rectifiers, power capacitors and lightning arrestors 
(/) Aluminium Conductors steel reinforced (ACSR) . 

Internal Combuitfon englnes/pumps and compressors, all types 
«) Industrial machinery, components and spares thereof . 

(/) Railway Coaches and Wagons including Tram Cars 
Water Transport Equipment .. 


(I) Bicycles, all types (other than apeolal models and sports light Roadster), bicycle 
and accessories; bicycle rickshaws and their components/accessories, all types 
((/) Bicycles special models including Sports Light Roadster (SLR Model) 

Petroleum metering and dispensing pumps .... 

(/) Photographic Camera. 

Sewing fiiachines .. 

Measuring tape?, tape rules, all types. 

(//) Clocks and Time pieces excluding digital clocks and Time pieces 

Time Chains.. 

Other engineering products not elsewhere specified 


components 




Nil 

Nil 


14% 

Nil 

7% 

Nil 

Nil 

Nil 

16% 

Nil 

15% 

24% 


27% 

8 % 

45% 

13i% 

9% 

2 % 

Nil 

15% 

Nil 

Nil 

2 *% 

10 % 

5% 

Nil 

21 % 


























(»rr>Ti—ai 1) 


*T>T ; ■Htll'Ml <. y l 


285 


APPENDIX. 18 

(Paras 268 and 283 of Chapter XXI) 

ALLOCATION OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE TO EXPORT HOUSES AND TRADING 
HOUSES FOR PROMOTIONAL ACTIVITIES 


Attention tt invited to the provisions made in 
para 266 of Chapter XXI according to which an 
export house holding ‘Export House Certificate’ may 
be allowed to utilise foreign exchange upto 2.5% of 
the f.o.b. value of its total exports in the previous 
year, for the following purposes, inter-alia 

(a) Core gn l ;’.c magi' cir reufftmc >o promt •- 
uonal acovK.eu office v;a purest, id uucter ♦> •<. 

Code of Grants in Aid for export efforts. 
A list of -he idevtai! wpurt p, omnium acti¬ 
vities covered by the Cotie ot Grant* m Aid 
>i given m tne AonJinie to this Appendix, 
and 

(b) Imports of testing equipment and spares and 
machinery, duly cleared from Indigenous 

angie and considered Asentiak i..r '.retting irp 
common iei vising ,,’jtre* 

2(1). The above limit of 2.5% is in addition to the 
blanket foreign exchange facility separately available 
to export houses and large exporters from the Reserve 
Bank of India and it is subject to a maximum of 
Rs. 10 lakhs (Rs. 20 lakhs in the case of Export 
House whose exports of select pioducts in the preced¬ 
ing year were fit least Rs, 5 crores in value f.o.b.) and 
Export Houses whose exports of selert products in 
the year before the preceding year were not less 
than Rs. 2.0 crores (f.o.b.) in value and increased 
their exports during the preceding year by at least 
50% over the level of the year before the preceding 
year. The amount exceeding Rs, 10 laklis/Rs. 20 
lakhs but within the overall 2,5% will be adjusted 
against the REP entitlements earned by the export 
house on its own exports. 

(2). For Trading Houses, the upper limit in 
sub-para (1) above will be Rs. 60 lakhs. Within 
this foreign excn&nge allocation, the Trading House" 
may also set up warehouses and offices abroad without 
obtaining prior approval of the Reset ve Bank of India. 
They should, however, send post-facto intimation to 
the Reserve Bank of Indit., immediately after setting 
up the warehouses/offices abroad. 

3, During the licensing year the facility will *be 
available on the basis of 2.5% of the exports made in 


the preceding year of all products, subject io the 
provision indicated in para 2 above. 

In the Export House/Trading House Certificates 
issued in the licensing year, the total value of exports 
of the export house/ti tiding house made in the pre¬ 
ceding year will be indicated. This will enable them 
to avail of the provision made in this policy. In the 
case of tho-.e to whom Export/Trading House Certi¬ 
ficates were issued in the preceding year and which 
are valid in the licensing year, the f.o.b. value 
of exports for the preceding year will be intimated 
by the regional licensing authorities - .mcerntd to the 
regional office concerned of the Reserve Eank of 
India. Based on the f.o.b. value of c; port.; thus 
made available, the Reserve Bulk of India will issue 
a Blanket Pass Book to each export house/trading 
house releasing the amount of foreign exchange for 
the purpose, equal to 2,5% of the f o.b. value of 
exports subject to a maximum of Rs. 10 lakhs or 
Rs. 20 lakhs or P.s, 60 laths, as the case may be. 
Jf an export house, trading house wants to utilise for 
tliis purpose an amount more than R3, 10 lakhs/ 
Rs. 20 lakhs/Rs 60 laths, but whhin the overall en¬ 
titlement of 2.5% of the f o.h value of Its exports 
in the preceding year by '■yncndcring REP entitle¬ 
ments on its own exports as indicated above, the ex¬ 
port housc/lrnding house will approach the import 
licensing authority concerned with whom the REP 
entitlement is pending and surrender the REP entitle¬ 
ment on its own exports of the required amount. To 
the extern the REP entitlement is thus surrendered 
the licensing authority will inform the Reserve Bank 
of India. On that basis, the Reserve Bank of India 
will release further amount of foreign exchange in 
the Pass Book referred to above. 

e A no „t.id 1 • :.h Boot will enable the export tiouse/ 
•jL'jdmg house to remit foreign exchange for the 
purposes referred to m sub-para 1(a) above through 
any authorised dealer In foreign exchange. The 
authoiiicd dealer will debit the amount thus remitted 
m die Pur ; Book umitr intimation to the Reserve Bank 

. E.ditl 

6. Exp r< Houses trading rioaseu feteading & 
utilise this foreign exchange allocation for import ef 



286 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— -Sec, 1] 


APPENDIX 18 —Com 4 . 


equipments stc. referred to in sub-para 1(b) above 
should approach the DGTD (E.P. Directorate) giving 
full particulars of the goods sought to be imported, 
their c.i.f. value and the purpose/justificatioa for 
import and the name of the licensing authority which 
has to issue the licence. The DGTD will send their 
recommendation direct to the said licensing authority. 
Based on that, the licensing authority will issue import 
licence. The value of the ncence will be debited by 


the licensing authority in the said Pass. Book under 
intimation to the Reserve Bank of India. 

7. The Pass Books issued in the licensing year may 
be made valid by the Reserve Bank of India for one 
year from the date of issue. After the Pass Book 
has been fully utilised, it should be surrendered to the 
Reserve Bank of India (Exchange Control Depart¬ 
ment) for post scrutiny, if any, as decided by the 
Reserve Bank of India. 




(*rnr i—<w 1] 


*TTTTT 'FT TT5PTW : TOTSTOT 


287 


ANNEXURE TO APPENDIX 18 


EXPORT PROMOTION ACTIVITIES COVERED BY THE CODE OF GRAN TS IN¬ 
AID OP MARKET DEVELOPMENT ASSIST ANCE AND OTHER FACILITIES AND 
WHICH ARE RELEVANT FOR THE BLANKET FOREIGN EXCHANGE PERMIT 

SCHEME 


1. Sale* ot Sales-cum-itudy team* abroad. 

2. Publication* for use abroad, including journals, 
brochures, pamphlets, folders etc. for bound publicity 
of products of the Export House. 

3. Brand publicity projects through advertisements 
in news papers and periodicals abroad or through 
other useful media. Such projects, if not sponsored 
by an approved organisation under the code, should 
have prior approval of the Ministry of Commerce 
for assistance under the code. 


4. Participation in exhibitions abroad, display of 
exhibits in show-rooms abroad. 

5. Settlement of small value claims with foreign 
buyers. For this purpose, a small value claim means 
a claim nof exceeding ten per cent of the f.o.b. value 
of the transaction to which it pertains subject to a 
m aximum of Rs. 10,000. 

6. Expenditure on stamp duty, court fees stamp, 
advocate fee, and other legal expenses incurred 
abroad, and also expenses on advertisement and 
publicity, calendars, diaries, souvenirs, catalogues and 
other sundry materials/gift articles. 



288 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX. 19 
(Chapter XVI) 

DOTY EXEMPTION SCHEME 


Scope : 

The three categories of licences covered by _ this 
Scheme are (1) Advance licence (2) Advance licence 
for supply of Intermediate Products and (3) Special 
Imprest licence. The basis and conditions on which 
these three categories of licences are issued under Duty 
Exemption Scheme are different and licences issued 
under one category cannot be mixed up with the other. 
Imports against a licence granted under this Scheme 
will be eligible for the benefit of Customs duty exemp¬ 
tion, aslaid down. Applications for grant of advance 
licences with customs duty exemption for value less 
than Rs. 5,000/- will not bo entertained. A licence 
issued under this scheme to a manufacturer-exporter 
will be subject to Actual User conditions. Exempt 
materials imported by a merchant-exporter, when 
transferred to a supporting manufacturer specified 
below for production- as prescribed in the scheme, will 
be subject to Actual User conditions. 

2. The purpose and scope of the three categories 
of licences referred to above are as follows :— 

(1) Advance licences are issued to registered 
exporters for import of exempt materials speci¬ 
fied in Amexure / to the Department of 
Revenue Notification No.G.S.R. dated 
5-4-1982 (Annexure I to this Appendix) and 
the resultant products have to be exported 
outside the country. 

(2) Advance licences for supply of Intermediate 
products are issued to registered manufacturer - 
exporters for the exempt materials listed in 
Annexure II to this Appendix with a tie-up 
arrangement and the resultant materials have 
either to be exported out of the country or 
these may be supplied to (a) another Advance 
Licence holder under the Intermediate Scheme 
who requires these intermediate products for 
the manufacture of finished products (listed in 
Annexure II) to be exported out of the country, 
or (b) to a unit located in a Free Trade Zone in 
India or a 100% E.O.U. which requires these 
intermediate products for manufacture and 
export out of the country. 

(3) Special Imprest licences are issued to regis¬ 
tered exporters for the deemed exports covered 
by para 190(b), (f)&(i) of this Policy for import 
of raw materials and components required for 
the manufacture of goods to be supplied to 
projects in India against contracts entered into 
with IBRD/IDA aided projects, projects finan¬ 
ced by multilateral and bilateral external assis¬ 
tance and ONGC/OTL/GAIL vide Deptt. of 
Revenue Notification in Annexure III to this 
Appendix. 


3. The Scheme will apply only to those export 
products in which there is a minimum value addition 
of 33 % from c.i.f. value of imports to f.o.b. value of 
exports. Wherever it is considered necessary, Advance 
Licensing Committees may relax the condition 
regarding 33% value addition. Similarly, Advance 
Licensing Committees may decline to consider cases 
where it is considered that the minimum value addition, 
though 33 % or above is not sufficient for the export 
products involved. 

Eligibility ; 

4(1) Registered exporters referred to in para 2 
above are eligible to apply for licences under this 
Scheme provided such exporters (i) hold valid export 
orders in their own names and (ii) are able to realise 
foreign exchange in their own names for the items pro¬ 
posed to be exported. 

(2) A registered manufacturer-exporter who is 
engaged in actual production and export during the 
preceding three financial years will be eligible to claim 
licences under this Scheme based on his average past 
export performance during the preceding three financial 
years. This facility may also be extended to Export/ 
Trading Houses. 

(3) Applications i for licences under this Scheme 
from the' same registered exporter against specific 
export orders may be entertained even though the 
export obligation against earlier licences under this 
scheme may be outstanding so long as the exporter 
has not been declared defaulter in respect of any pre¬ 
vious export obligation. 

(4) The condition relating to realisation of foreign 
exchange stated in sub-para (1) above will not, how¬ 
ever, apply to applicants for (i) the Advance licence 
under Intermediate Scheme for supplies made within 
India and (ii) Special Impreset licences for supplies to 
ONGC/Oil India Ltd./GAIL. 

(5) It is clarified that the exports on behalf of 
others or on account of others or third party exports 
arc not admissible under this Scheme. There is no 
objection, however, to the export documents men¬ 
tioning the name of the manufacturer to indicate the 
origin of the products, if required, but under no cir¬ 
cumstances these exports would be considered or 
accepted as the exports effected by the manufacturer. 

Items permissible : 

5. Items listed in Annexure I to Department of 
Revenue Notification in Annexure I to this Appendix are 
eligible for import under an Advance licence. Raw 



[WTl] 


*rrer tt <waf: 


289 


APPENDIX 19— Contd. 


materials and components required for the manu¬ 
facture of the goods to be supplied to the specified 
projects/ONGC/OIL/GAlL are eligible to be imported 
under a Special Imprest licence. However, items 
figuring in Appendix 2—Part A of this Policy and 
consumer goods will not be allowed. Items of spares 
and consumables may be allowed to these categories 
without duty exemption benefits. For Advance 
licences for manufacture of Intermediate products 
only items listed in Annexurc II to this Appendix are 
allowed for imports. 

Submission of Application : 

6. Applications for issue of licences under this 
Scheme should be preferred in quadruplicate in the 
form given in Appendix XVI-A of the pland Book. A 
copy each along with the full set of documents is to be 
forwarded to' the (1) Director (Drawback), Depart¬ 
ment of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Jeevan Deep 
Bldg., Sansand Marg, New Delhi, (2) D.G.T.D., 
CJdyog Bhavan, New Delhi or DC (SSI). New Delhi 
or Textile Commissioner, Bombay, as the case may 
be, (3) Concerned licensing authority in accordance 
with the jurisdiction indicated in Appendix II-B of the 
Hand Book and (4) Regional Licensing Authority 
indicated in Annexure IV to this Scheme. In the 
case of applications for licences under this Scheme 
which are beyond the jurisdiction of the regional 
licensing authorities as stated in para 12 below, a copy 
of the application is to be sent to the office of the 
CCI&E, (EP-II Section), New Delhi, instead of to the 
Regional licensing authority concerned. 

7. Where input-output norms have already been 
prescribed by the Advance Licensing Committee either 
in individual cases or in Annexure V to this Appendix, 
no certificate from a Chartered Engineer or Chartered 
Accountant or- DGTD, etc. would be required to be 
submitted along with the application. An input- 
output norm fixed in an individual case cannot b6 
claimed as the basis for issue of licences under this 
Scheme for another applicant. The application 
should, however, contain all other prescribed docu¬ 
ments. 

8. Where input-output norms have already been 
approved by the Advance Licensing Committee in the 
office of the CCI&E, New Delhi, either in (i) indivi¬ 
dual cases or (ii) Annexure V to this Appendix, the 
licensing authorities headed by Jt. CCI&Es/Dy. 
CCI&Es may issue licences under this Scheme without 
prior clearance from the Regional/Hqrs. Advance 
Licensing Committees. In all these cases, after issue 
of the licences concerned, the licensing authorities will 
inform the Regional Advance Licensing Committee 
concerned for ex-post facto approval. 

Advance Licensing Committees and their jurisdictions : 

9. To consider applications under this Scheme the 
Advance Licensing Committees having repesentative-. 
of concerned authorities/departments as may be 
decided from time to time will be set up. Licences 


under this Scheme may be issued as per the decisions 
of these Committees with regard to quantities/ 
values/items. The Committees may allow represen¬ 
tative/s of the applicants to appear before them on a 
specific request made for this purpose in writing. 

10. Advance Licensing Committees will function 
in the offices of (1) the CCI&E, New Delhi, (2) the 
Jt. CCI&E, Calcutta, (3) the Jt. CCI&E, Madras and 
(4) the Jt. CCI&E, (CLA), New Delhi. Formation 
of an Advance Licensing Committee in the office of 
the Jt. CCI&E, Bombay, will be considered on opening 
of an office of DGTD in that place. Till then applica¬ 
tions will continue to be placed before the Hqrs. 
Advance Licensing Committee in the office of the 
CCI&E, New Delhi. 

11. The jurisdiction of the Regional Advance 
Licensing Committees is given in Annexure IV to 
this Scheme. 

12. The Regional Advance Licensing Committees 
will consider applifcations for licences under the three 
categories of Duty Exemption Scheme enumerated 
above in the following types of cases ;— 

(1) Where the application is for a CIF value 
of Rs. 25 lakhs or below but no input-output 
norms have been fixed for the export products 
earlier either in (i) individual cases or (ii) 
Annexure V to this Appendix. 

(2) Where the application is for a CIF value of 
Rs. one crore or below but input-output 
norms have been fixed for the export products 
either in (i) individual cases or (ii) Annexure 
V to this Appendix. 

13. The following categories of applications will 
only be considered by the Hqrs. Advance Licensing 
Committee:— 

(1) Cases not covered by sub-paras (1) and (2) 
in para 12 above. 

(2) Cases where export obligation sought to be 
initially imposed is beyond the periods of 
export obligation prescribed in para 23(1) 
below. 

(3) Applicants seeking Advance licences for a 
value exceeding 12 months’ requirements at 
a time. 

(4) Applications for fixation of input-output 
norms as per para 15 below. 

14. Annexure V to this Scheme gives the relevant 
input-output norms relating to export products which 
have been approved by the Advance Licensing Com¬ 
mittee in the office of the CCI&E, New Delhi. Any 




290 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. I] 


APPENDIX 19— Contd. 


change in the input-output norms prescribed 
in Annexure V will require prior approval of the 
Advance Licensing Committee in the office of the 
CCI&E, New Delhi. 

15. A registered exporter may apply to the Advance 
Licensing Committee in the office of the CCI&E, 
Udyog Bhavan, New Delhi for approval of the input- 
output norms of the products to be exported by him 
in anticipation of the orders to be obtained during 
the course of the year. 

Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate : 

16. The licensing authority issuing a licence under 
this Scheme will also simultaneously issue the con¬ 
nected Duty Exemption Entitlement Certificate in 
the form given in Appendix XVI-E of the Hand Book. 
These certificates will be issued in two parts—one 
for imports and the other for exports. Both the 
parts of the DEECs duly completed in all parts by 
the Customs will have to be surrendered to the licen¬ 
sing authority concerned along with the prescribed 
documents in fulfilment of the export obligation 
imposed on them. 

Port of Registration : 

17. The licence and the DEEC under this scheme 
will be issued with a single port of registration and 
will be valid for import and export of the items co¬ 
vered by them only through this port. If any imports 
or exports are to be effected from a port other than 
the port of registration, the licence holder will have 
to approach the Customs authorities concerned who 
may grant permission subject to such conditions as 
they may deem fit. In respect of cextain items, the 
port of registration will be as indicated in sub para 
(+) of the Customs notification in Annexur-I to 
this Appendix. 

Imports: 

18. Where the licence holder is eligible to Duty 
exemption for canalised items, it will be open to him 
cither to import these directly or obtain supplies of 
imported materials from the bonded stocks of the 
canalising agency concerned. 

19. Where tho applicant is eligible to Duty Exem¬ 
ption for an item allowed for import under OGL in 
this Policy, it will be open to him to import that item 
and keep it in Customs bond for getting clearance 
against a valid unexpired licence issued under this 
Scheme. Clearance of the item from the Customs 
bond will, however, have to be effected after obtaining 
tho licence under this Scheme without which the 
benefit of duty exemption will not be admissible. 

20. In the case of higher freight or upward varia¬ 
tion In exchange rates, the licensing authorities may, 
on request, enhance the c.i.f. value of the licence 
Issued under this Scheme provided the f.o.b. value of 
•■port obligation praurikad la elre 

enhanced 


Letter of Authority : 

21(1) On a licence issued under this Scheme, the 
facility of issuing letter of authority, if eligible, will 
be restricted to the supporting manufacturers whose 
name/s figure/s in the DEEC issued notwithstanding 
the provisions in paras 118 and 119 of the Hand Book. 
No Letter of credit shall be allowed to be opened 
against a licence issued under this scheme by a person 
other than the licensee or the supporting manufactu¬ 
rers shown in the DEEC. 

(2) Export/trading houses may also be permitted 
by the Hqrs. Advance Licensing Committee to issue 
letters of authority to such supporting manufacturers 
against licences issued under this Scheme in relaxa¬ 
tion of the provisions contained in para 118(2) of 
the Hand Book provided such export/trading houses 
are agreeable to execute bonds with bank guarantee 
for the full Customs duties payable. 

ExporTobllgatlons : 

22. A licence issued under this scheme will bear 
a suitable export obligation. The export obligation 
period will begin from the date of clearance of the first 
consignment of import or from 30 days after the date 
of import of the first consignment, whichever is 
earlier. Initially, on a provisional basis the date of 
execution of bond/legal agreement will be treated 
as the date from which export obligation begins. 
However, on submission of bill of entry and the 
DEEC, the date from which the export obligation 
begins will be regularised as stated above. 


23(1). The period prescribed for fulfilment of the 
export obligation is as follows :— 


SI. Export Product 

Period 

No. 


1. Engineering items (Machinery/ 

12 months. 

turnkey projects only) 


2. Cassettes (Audio or Video) 

6 months. 

3. Others 

9 months. 


(2) The Regional Advance Licensing Committees 
may consider, on merits, extension of export obliga¬ 
tion for a period not exceeding three months. In 
the case of the export product Cassettes (Audio or 
Video), however, no extension of export obligation 
will be granted under any circumstances. Normally, 
no further extension of export obligation will be 

f ranted beyond the three months referred to above, 
lowever, In exceptional cases for extenuating cir¬ 
cumstances, the Advance Licensing Committee In 
the office of the CCI&E, New Delhi, may consider 
grant of further extension U export obligation period, 
od tli« merit* of e*eh lecli OU». 




[HH I— WI l' 


W3 TTW : WETimW 


291 


APPENDIX 19 —Conld, 


Execution of bond: 

24(1) Before clearance of the fust consignment 
of import, the licence holder shall execute a bond 
with bank guarantee with the concerned licensing 
authority in the prescribed form given in Appendix 
XVI-C of the Hand Book. Certain categories of licence 
holders may be given the facility of bond with bank 
guarantee for a lesser value or legal agreement in 
lieu of the bond as per paras 339 and 340 of the 
Hand book. 

(2) If the applicant is not a manufacturer of the 
resultant products, the export bond/legal agreement 
shall be executed jointly by the exporter holding the 
licence and the supporting manufacturer/s whose 
name/s appear/s in the DEEC. For this purpose, the 
applicant registered exporter will have to indicate 
the name/s and address/es of the manufacturer/s in 
whose factory/ies the resultant product/s are proposed 
to be manufactured and their name/s will be included 
in the DEEC. In the case of merchant exporters 
of goods specified in para 6 of Appendix 13 of 
this Policy, the Hqrs./Regional Advance Licensing 
Committees may allow, on merits, for execution of 
such bond/legal agreement by the exporter, without 
insisting on a joint bond with their supporting manu¬ 
facturers. 

(3) In the case of export/trading houses also, the 
name/s of manufacturer/s where the resultant pro¬ 
ducts are to be manufactured will have to be indicated 
for inclusion in the DEEC but it will not be necessary 
for the export/trading house to execute a joint bond/ 
legal agreement and they may execute the bond/legal 
agreement themselves. 

(4) Where the export obligation prescribed on a 
licence under this 1 Scheme has been fulfilled in part 
before import of the exempt materials involved, the 
bond/legal agreement will be correspondingly reduced 
in value so that it represents only the unfulfilled part 
of the export obligation/Customs duty exemption. 
If the export obligation prescribed has been met in 
full before any import takes place, execution of a 
bond/legal agreement will not be necessary. For 
theso purposes, however, the Advance licence holder 
will have to produce to the licensing authority con¬ 
cerned prescribed export documents to prove such 
partial or full fulfilment of export obligation along 
with the DEECs showing Customs audited entries. 

(5) Customs audited entries in DEEC referred to 
above will, however, not be necessary in case of 
supplies effected under Advance Licences for Inter¬ 
mediate products to another Advance Licence holder 
for Intermediate product or under Special Imprest 
Licence to the project authorities concerned. In these 
cases, the entries effected on the DEECs concerned 
by the seller/buyer Advance Licence holder under 
the Intermediate Scheme or the project authorities 
concerned, as the case may be, will suffice. However, 
In roapcct of Advance licences Issued for supply of 
Intermediate product* where such supplies are effected 


to a unit in FTZ/100% EOU, such entries relating to 
supplies in the DEECs involved will have to be made 
by the Development Commissioner or the Customs/ 
Central Excise Officer, as the case may be. 

(6) Where an Advance licence holder has not 
executed the bond/legal agreement as he had 
already fulfilled the export obligation in full and a 
waiver for execution of the bond/legal agreement has 
been given, the Advance licence holder concerned 
shall, after effecting imports, submit the DEEC with 
Customs audited entries relating'to imports and exports 
and Part ‘H’ duly filled in by him to the licensing 
authority concerned. 

Exports : 

25. The shipping bill relating to exports covered 
by this Scheme shall bear such declarations and follow 
such procedures as may be laid down by the Customs 
authorities concerned. This provision will not apply 
to supplies against Advance licences issued for Inter¬ 
mediate products/Special Imprest licences. 

26. Exports/supplies made from the date of receipt 
of application under this Scheme by the licensing 
authority concerned will be accepted towards dis¬ 
charge of export obligation. However, the applicant 
exporter will be taking advantage of this provision 
only at his own risk and subsequently if his appli¬ 
cation for a licence is rejected under this Scheme he 
will not be entitled to import the items concerned or 
to the duty exemption benefits. 

27(1) Shipments made in the export obligation 
period will be entered on the DEEC by the Customs 
authorities concerned. Such endorsements on DEEC 
i r from the Customs are not required for supplies effected 
under an Intermediate Scheme or Special Imprest 
licence except to the extent covered by sub-para (2) 
below. 

(2) Supplies effected within the export obligation 
period by an Advance Licence holder for supply of 
the Intermediate products to a unit in FTZ/100% 
EOU will be endorsed on his DEECs, Part II, by the 

i Development Commissioner or Customs/Central 
Excise Officer in the 100 % EOU, as the case may be, 
to indicate acceptance ox such goods. Such supplies 
will be allowed only if the value of these goods is 
accounted for by the buyer unit for the purpose of 
counting the prescribed value addition. 

(3) When supplies are effected by an Advance 
"licence holder under Intermediate product Scheme 

to another Advance licence holder under the same 
Scheme, the supplier will make an endorsement 
on the DEEC issued to the recipient about the actual 
supplies effected to the latter. Similarly, the recipient 
will make suitable endorsement on the DEEG of the 
supplier about the acceptance of supplies from him 





292 


THE GARETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 19— Contd. 


(4) Supplies effected by the Special Imprest 
licence holder within the export obligation period 
will be endorsed by the Project Authorities concerned 
on the DEECs, Part II, for having received the goods 
indicated therein. 

(5) If a shipment is sought to be effected in dis¬ 
charge of export obligation either before the issue 
of the licence and the DEEC or after the expiry of 
the stipulated period of export obligation, Customs 
authority will allow such exports on provisional 
shipping bills. Subsequently, if a licence and the 
DEEC arc issued or the period for fulfilling export 
obligation is extended to cover these exports, the Cus¬ 
toms authorities will regularise these exports. If, 
however, a licence and DEEC are not issued or 
period for fulfilling export obligation is not extended, 
the provisional exports will not be eligible for regula- 
risation and these endorsements made will be cancelled. 
The licensing authority concerned will suitably endorse 
a copy of the communication addressed to the 
exporter to the Customs authorities concerned 
regarding such issue of licence or extension, as the 
case may be. 

(6) In the case of endorsements referred to in 
sub-paras (3) and (4) above, the acceptace of supplies 
will have to be signed by the authorised person vide 
para 50 of the Hand Book with his name, designation 
and full address of the firm along with the rubber 
stamp. All the relevant columns in the DEECs 
have also 13 bi filled in. This will be without 
prejudice to any other certificates which are 
prescribed and required to be isued under tha 
provisions of this Policy. 

(7) At the request of the licence holder, on com¬ 
pletion of his exports or for settling his accounts vide 
para 29(3) below before such completion, the Customs 
authorities will normally return the DEECs 
with all parts filled in within 30 days from the date 
of receipt of DEECs with the connected documents. 

28. The value of a licence issued under this Scheme 
will be debited to the REP entitlement, if any, ad¬ 
missible to exports made in fulfilment of the export 
obligation prescribed. Every licence holder under 
this Scheme will be eligible for import replcnsihment 
licences as admissible in terms of Appendix 17 of 
this Policy for the balance value, if any, after fulfil¬ 
lment of his export obligation. Imports of res¬ 
tricted/Limited permissible/canalised items actually 
effected (and not OGL items) will alone be computed 
for calculating the total imports effected by him. 
Similarly, any exports effected by the registered'exporter 
in excess of the export obligation prescribed will be 
eligible for the full replenishment benefits as admissible 
under Appendix 17 of this Policy. For such 
remaining/additional replenishment benefits, if any, 
due to the registered exporter, the licensing authority 
concerned, while redeeming the bond/legal agreement, 
will simultaneously issue Excess Entitlement Certi¬ 
ficates entitling the registered exporter to claim re¬ 
plenishment licences. Such Excess Entitlement 


Certificates will be valid for a period of three months 
from the date of its issue and the registered exporters 
may prefer application for replenishment licences 
on the basis of these Excess Entitlement Certificates. 
It is clarified that the excess exports, if any, effected 
against a DEEC cannot be adjusted against another 
DEEC as accounting of each DEEC has to be done 
separately. 

Foliow-np/Penal Actions : 

29 (1) Where any bond/legal agreement has not 
been executed against a licence issued under this 
Scheme within the validity of the licence, licensing 
authority concerned will initiate action for calling back 
the licence for cancellation. 

(2) In other cases, a cautionary letter about the 
expiry of the export obligation period will be issued 
to the exporter one month before the expiry of the 
export obligation period. Licensing authorities 
win also initiate follow-up actions within 30 days 
from the date of expiry of the export obligation period. 
If the exports have not been completed in fulfilment 
of the export obligation penal actions as provided 
in the succeeding paras will be initiated. 

(3) If a licence holder fails to discharge the pres¬ 
cribed export obligation within the permitted time, 
either in full or in part, the bond/legal agreement 
executed by him will be enforced. He shall also 
be treated to be in default, thereby disentitling him to 
secure any licences/release orders either under this 
Scheme or under any other provision of this Policy. 
In such cases, the registered exporter shall :— 

(i) pay forthwith to the Customs Authority 
concerned duty on the proportionate quantity 
of exempt materials imported corresponding to 
the products not exported and on any excess 
materials that is left over after utilisation 
in the manufacture of the resultant products 
and completion of the corresponding exports; 
and 

(ii) pay interest at 18% per annum of the total 
amount of Customs duty and other duties 
payable from the date of clearance of the 
imported goods (exempt materials) to the 
date on which the amount due from him is 
actually paid. 

The defaulting licensee will take the above actions 
within a month from the date of any order issued 
by the licensing authority concerned. 

(4) If the defaulter licensee fails to act according 
to the provisions in sub-para (3) above, the licensing 
authority shall recover the amounts and value of such 
REP licences due from export entitlements due to 
the defaulting exporter. The Customs authorities 
shall also take suitable action for recovery of Customs 
or other duties and interest thereon under Section 



[KTPTI —#7 l] 


*TTOT ¥T THTW: V«IHH U I 


293 


APPENDIX 19— Contd. 


142 of the Customs Act 1962. These actions shall 
be without prejudice to any other action that may be 
taken against the defaulter exporter under the Import 
& Export (Control) Act, 1947 and the Order issued 
thereunder. 

(5) Any follow-up or penal action initiated by the 
licensing authorities shall not be discontinued unless 
these are stayed or set aside by the appellate authori¬ 
ties concerned. 

Utilisation of exempt materials : 

30. Exempt materials imported against a licence 
under this Scheme shall be utilised for the manfac- 
ture of the resultant products specified in the DEEC. 
Such materials shall not be loaned, sold or transferred 
or disposed of otherwise under any circumstances. 
However, in cases where the export obligation has 
been partially or fully met before the receipt of the 
licence (but made after the date of receipt of the appli¬ 
cation for the licence), the Advance Licensing Com¬ 
mittee in the office of the CCI&E, New Delhi, may 
consider transfer at landed cost of the exempt materials 


imported subsequently on this licence as replenish¬ 
ment to the supporting manufacturer concerned whose 
name appears in the DEEC for further production 
and subject to Actual User conditions. 


Admissibility of Drawback : 

31, No Drawback will be admissible on the pro¬ 
ducts exported/supplied under the Scheme in respect 
of any Duty exempt materials allowed against such 
exports/supplies. In respect of any other duty paid 
materials, whether imported or indigenous, used in 
such products, a suitable brand rate may be fixed by 
the Ministry of Finance (Director of Drawback), 
on request by the registered exporter concerned. 

32. Ministry of Finance may also consider exempt¬ 
ing Intermediates manufactured under this Scheme 
from payment of excise duty as may be leviable. 
Otherwise, Excise duty for the manufacture of Inter¬ 
mediates will have to be paid by the manufacturer 
concerned and Drawback , if any, claimed in accord¬ 
ance with the Rules. 



• 294 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 
GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FINAMCH 
Department ol Revenge 
INDIRECT TAXES DIVISION 
New Delhi, the 5th April, 1982 
the 15th Chaitra, 1904 (Sate. 
NOTIFICATION 
CUSTOM* 


G.S.R. .—In exercise of the powers conferred 

by sub-section (1) of section 25 of the Customs Act, 
1962 (52 of 1962), and in supersession of the notifi¬ 
cation of the Government of India in the Department 
of Revenue No 117/78—Customs [GSR No. 318(E)], 
dated the 9th June, 1978, the Central Government, 
being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest 
so to do, hereby exempts the good# specified in the 
First Schedule to this notification and imported 
against an Advance Licence issued under the Imports 
(Control) Order. 1955, or obtained against the Advance 
Release Order on canalising agency for release of 
goods already imported and warehoused under 
Chapter IX of the «ald Customs Act, being materials 
required to be imported for the purpose of manu¬ 
facture of goods, or replenishment of the materials 
used in the manufacture of goods or both for execu¬ 
tion of one or more export orders, from whole of the 
duty of custom* leviable thereon which is ipecifled 
In the First Schedule to the Custom* Taxi* Act, 
1975 (51 of 1975), and the whole of the additional 
duty leviable thereon under lection 3 of the said 
Custom* Tarit Act, 1975, lubject to the following 
conditions, namely:— 


(a) (he materials imported are covered by a 
Duty Exemption Entitlement Oertiflosfe 
(hereinafter referred to ut the said c;rUfi 
cate) granted by the Committee la the form 
specified La the Second Schedule to (hi* notifi¬ 
cation, In reipect of value, quantity, descrip¬ 
tion, quality or technical characteristics, 
*« specified In Part ‘C of the said Certifi¬ 
es!* 5 


(fc) the importer at the time of clearance of the 
Imported material makes— 


(1) A claim in writing to the Collector of 
Customs for siich exemptlo'n and execu¬ 
tes a bond [legal undertaking before such 
authority as may be approved by the 
Central Govemmeat for complying with 
the conditions ipecifled la thl* notification 


UO * declaration before the Assistant Col¬ 
lector of Customs binding himself to pay 
on demand an amount equal to the duty 
leviable, but for the exemption, on the 
Imported materials in respect of which 
the conditions specified in thii notifica¬ 
tion have not been complied with. 

(c) the good* corresponding to the resultant 
products in respect of value, quantity, des¬ 
cription, quality or technical characteristics, 
as specified in the said Certificate are expor¬ 
ted within the time specified therein or such 
extended period as may be granted by the 
Committee; 

(d) the exempt materials shall be used for the 
purpose specified in this notification and 
provided that this condition shall not apply 
in relation to any exempt materials which 
have been imported for replenishment of 
the materials used in the manufacture of 
goods ; 


(e) the exempt materials or any portion there of 
shall not be sold or otherwise transferred to 
any other person, or urilised or permitted to 
be utilised or disposed ol In any other 
manner, without the previous permisioai'of 
the Committee. 


if) In the caw of good* being Nylon fibre, 
Nylon yam. Nylon fabrics, Polycater fibre, 
polyester yarn, polyester fabric*, stainless 
steel sheet*, stalnles# steel *trlrt< of magnntfc 
tap'", the import ifiall be only through any 
of the Sea ports of Kandla, Bombay, Co¬ 
chin, Madras, Vizakhapatnatn and Calcutta 
or through any of the Airports of Bombay, 
Calcutta, Delhi, Madras and Bangalore or 
through either of the Internal container de¬ 
pots at Delhi and Bangalore and the export 
of finished products in which such goods are 
used shall be only through any of the said 
sea port*. Airport* ■>? internal container 
Hr 1 pot*" 




[OT I—T» l] 


wiw: 


295 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19— Comet. 


Explanation :—In this notification— 

(0 “Co mmi ttee" means the Inter-Departmental 
Committee, as constituted by the Ccptral 
Government under the Office Memorandum 
of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Commerce No. l(3)/66-EAC, dated the 
26th June, 1967, for the time being in force, 
or as reconstituted by the Central Govern¬ 
ment bom time to time; 


(11) “exempt materials” means the materials 
imported and specified in Part ‘C’ of the said 
Certificate and eligible for exemption from 
duty under this notification; 


(111) “materials” means goods which are raw 
materials (whether consumable or not) and 
includes semis, components, parts and inter¬ 
mediate products used In the manufacture of 
goods and their packings ; 


(tv) “resultant products" means the goods speci¬ 
fied in Part ‘E’ of the said Certificate ; 

(v) “Canalising agency" means a public sector 
agency designated for imports of canalised 
item*; 

(vl) “importer” includes the holder of an Advance 
Release Order, who obtains supplies of 
materials imported and warehoused by a 
canalising agency under Chapter IX of the 
Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962). 


Sd/- 

(G. R. Sharma) 

Deputy Secretary to the Government 
of India. 





296 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 





ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 19 —Comd, 

“THE FIRST SCHEDULE” 


SI 

No 



Description of the goods 

M 

Heading No. of the First 
Schedule to the Customs 
Tariff Act, 1975 

(1) 



(2) 

(3) 


1. Ivory, Unmanufactured.05,01/15 

2. Fruits—Peel of melons or citrus fruit—fresh or preserved.08.01 /13 and 20.01 /07 

3. Mate, Spices and Tea. 9,02/03 and 9.04/10 

4. Malt, Starches and gluten. .11,03/09 

3. 011 seeds and oleaginous fruit; whole or broken j .... . . 12.01 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Copra. 

6. Flours or meals of oil seeds or oleaginous fruit, non-defatted (excluding mustard flour) 12,02 

7. Seeds, fruit and spores, of a kind used for sowing , , . ..12.03 

8. Sugar beet, whole or sliced, fresh, dried or powdered; sugar cane; hop cones and lupulin . 12.04/06 

9 Plants and parts (including seeds and fruit) of trees, bushes, shrubs or other plants, being goods of a 12.07 

kind used primarily in perfumery, in pharmacy, or for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar purposes, fresh, 
dried, whole, cut, crushed, ground or powdered. 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Goods used primarily in pharmacy, or for insecticidal, fungicidal, or similar purposes. 

10. Vegetable saps and extracts: pectic substances, pectinates and pectates: agar-agar and other natural 13.03 

mucilages and thickeners, derived from vegetable products. 


11. Oils, fats, fatty adds Including add oils other than those of animal origin; fatty alcohols, glycerol and 

glycerine ..15.07 & 15.8/13 

12. linseed oil; non-edible vegetable oils.. . . . . 15,07 

13. Sugar.17.01 

14. Cocoa and cocoa preparations (for examplo, cocoa beans, shells, husks, skins and waste, cocoa paste, 18.01/06 

cocoa batter (fat or oil), cocoa powder, chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa). 

13. Malt extracts.19.01/08 

16. Unmanufactured tobacco.24.01 

17. Sulphur of all kinds, other than sublimed sulphur, precipitated sulphur and colloidal sulphur. Asbestos, 25.01/32 

crude natural borates and concentrates thereof (calcined or not) but not including borates separated 

from natural boric acid containing not more than 85 % of H3 B03 calculated on the dry weight; rutile 
sand. 

18. Metallic ores and concentrates; roasted iron pyrites. 26 01 


(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Antimony ore and concentrates. 

(3) Tungsten ore and concentrate*. 

(4) Zinc ore and concentrates. 


19. Slag ash and residues containing metals or metallic compounds. 26.02/04 

20. Chemical elements, Inorganic chemical compounds and other products as specified in Notes 1 and 2 of 27,08 27 12/13 and 

C.T.A. Heading 28.01/58. 27.14/16 

21. (1) Not elsewhere specified. 28.01/58 

(2) Aluminium fluoride. 

(3) Aluminium oxide. 

(4) Bleaching paste and bleaching powder. 

(5) Boat* and boric acid. 
















3FT I—ITT l] 


BTOT <pr TRW . BtTTETKST 


297 



ANNBXUKE I TO APPENDIX 19—Coma, 

( 2 ) 


(6) Carbon (including carbon black). 

(7) Cruollte, synthetic. 

(8) Iodine in crude form. 

19) Mercury (excluding A ft , 8 P , U S P or equivalent grade of purity in containers holding 500 grams 
or less). 

(10) Silicon 

(11) Sodium hydrosulphite. 

(12) Titanium Dioxide. 

(13) The following products, namely i Adda, not elsewhere specified, Air (Compressed or liquid). 

Asides, Ammonia, Anhydrous, Arsenic, Azides, Bicarbo nates or soda, Brorides, 

Cadmium sulphide, Carbides (for example Silicon Carbide, Boron Carbide, Metal Carbides), 
Chrome compounds. Corundum, Cobalt oxide, artificial. Green copper as (Ferrous sulphate). 
Hydrides, Lead compounds. Magnesium oxide, whether or not chemically <ipure), Nitrides, 
Potassium compounds, Selenium, SUlddcs, Soda ash. Sodium Cyanide, Sodium silicate. 
Uranium oxide. Zinc compounds. 

Organto compounds. Including antibiotics. Hormones, Sulpha drugs. Vitamins and other produett 
specified In notes 1 and 2 of CTA Heading 29.01/43. 

(1) Not elsewhere specified 

(2) Acid cresylic. 

(3) Tho following alcohols, namely. Isopropyl alcohol, methyl alcohol, propyl alcohol. 

(4) The following hydrocarbon*, namely, benzene, ethyl benzene, toluene, xylene. 

(3) The following dye Intermediates, namely, C-Add (2-Chloro-3 ToIuldine-4- Sulphonlc Add), or 
G-Chloro-M-Toluldeno-4 Sulphonlc Acid), H-Acid, I-Add (2-Napbthyl Amine-5 Hydroxy-7- 
Sulphonic Acid), J-Aoid urea, Aceto-acet-Anilido, Aoeto-Acet-O-C-Chloro-Anilide, Accto-Acet- 
O-Chloro-Anilide, Acoto-Aoet-O-Toludine, Aceto Acetic Eater (Ethyl/Methyl). 

1 - Amino-anthraqulnone. 

2- Amino-anthraqulnone. 

(Beta- Amino- Anthraqulnone). 

O-Amino Azo Toluene. 

(2, 3/ Dlmethyl-4-Amino-Azo-Benzene or 4-Ortho-toluyazo-Ortho-Toluldine), Amino ISO G-Add. 
I-Amino'5'Nitro-2-Nuphthal-4-Sulphonlc Add, Aothra qulnon/Beta Naphthalene, 

Thioglycollc Acid. 

(2-Naphthyl Thioglycollc Add), 

Beta Naphthol, 

Benzidine Sulphate/Benzidine Dlhydro-chlorldn. 

Benzoyl J-Acld. 

(2-Benzoyl Amino 3-NapMh-)l-T-SiUphonic Acid). 

Chicago Add, 

4-Chloro-2-Anlsldlnt. 

M-Chloro Aniline, 

O-C-hloro Aniline, 

P-Chloro Aniline. 

4-Chloro-2-Nltro Anlsole, 

4-Chloro-2-Nltro Aniline, 

M-Chloro-Pa ra-Xylene, 

4-Chloro-O-Toluidlne, 

3- Chloro-O-Toluldlne, 

2 1 3 Dlchloro Aniline. 

1 1 4 Dlamlno Anthraqulnone, 

1 1 3 Dlamlno Anthraqulnone, 

2 1 3 Dlchloro Nltro Benzene, 

2 1 3 EMmethyl-4'Chlorophenyl-Thloglycoltc Acid, 

Dimethyl Sulphate, Dlnltro-Stllbene Dlsulphonlc Add 
(4,4/Dlnitrostllbene-2, 2/-Dl*ulphonio Acid), 

Gamma Add. 

GI/85—20. 


( 3 ) 


29,01 lit 



298 


U) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


ANNFXURItt I TO APPENDIX i'd-A.oma 


( 2 ) 


[Part I— ec. 1 


(3) 


Meta-Pbanylene Diamine 
Meta-Toluylene Diamine 
Novi! Winther Acid 
M-Nltp-Aniline 
Q-Nttro-Aniline 
P-Nltro AnEolc 

P-Nltrosophenol (I-Hydroxy-4-NItro Benzene). 

Ortho Anlsldlfie, Ortho Nitro-Toluene Ortho Toluldlno 
M'Nltro-P-Toiuldlne (MNPD 
Para Animdine, Paia Nitro Aniline. 

Para Nitro Toluene, para Nitro-Toluene-Sulphonlc Acid. Pa'a Nitro-Tolueno-Ortho- 
Sulphonlo Add (ToIuene-4-Nltro-2-Su]pbonic Acid or Benzene-l-MethyM-Nltro-2-Sulpbonic Add 
Bara Toluldlne. 

Par# Toluldlne Meta Sulphonlc Aclc Phenyl i. 

Add 2-!*nenylarotno3-Hydroxy Naphthalene- 

7- Sulphurlc Add), 

N.N. Dimethyl Aniline 
Alpha Naphthylamlne 
Ortho Phenltidlne. 

Ortho Tolidine Base. 

Meta Dl-Nitro Benzene. 

2, 4-Dinltro-chlaro-Benzene 
O-Nltro Anlsole, 

Dlphenylamlne 
Sodium Nitrite 
Naphthalene 
Aniline OH. 

5- Chloro-O-T ohildine. 

Any other Dye Intermediate not elsewhere specified. 

Per / Add 

Rhodullne Acid O-Salt, R Salt (1 NaphothaM. 

6- DlsulphonloAcld, Sodium Salt), 

Schaeffer's Acid (2-Naphthol-6-Sulphonic Acldl. 

Sodium Naphthlonate/Naphthlonlc Add. 

Sulphanlline Add, 

ToWas Add (2-Naphthyi Amino-l-SulphonU Adds 
Trichloro Benzene, 

tf) The following Intermediates, namely. 

Dlamlno Stlllbene, Dlsulphoulc Acid 

(4, 4/Dlamlno Stilbene-2 2/DIsul phonic, Acid. 

Diethyl Meta Amino Phenol (Meta-DI-Ethylamlno-Pbenol), Metantlic Acid. Orifer-f opuiii* 
Phenyl perl Add (Phenyl-Amino Naphthalene, 

8- Sulphonlc) 

<f) Past colour bases ordinarHt used as coupling compoaceu 
(8) Fast colour salt. 

(9{ Nsphthols ordinary used as coupling components. 

(10) The following compounds namely, 

Add no! elsewhere spedfled, acetic add, carbolic add (Phenol), citric add, ta-tariw scid 
essence 

til) Aromatic chemicals, namely, such organic chemicals as are ordinarily used for imparting aron» 
to perfumery, cosmetics, toilet product, food piodocts, and beverager 

(12) Insecticide, Pesticide .mil fungicide ohemlca s. 

(13) Pharmaceutical chemicals that Is chemicals having p/ophriaiic or iheraiwadi. *«ju« mu 
solely or predominantly as drugs, not elsewhere specified 

(141 The following pharmaceutical chemicals, namely, 

Cocalns, alkaloids of opium and their derivatives, alkaloid) of cinchona and trtbor tlkalonli whies 
are chemically Identical with cinchona alkaloids 



TT THtW tTOTffRvr 


299 


[«TT*r i—on i] 

ANNEXTJKE l TO APPENDIX 19—To„;rf 

<*> t2) 

,1J* Antibiotics; 

(56) Sulpha Drugxi 
iI'D Vltsralns 

(II?) Saccharine end such other substance* as the Central Government may bv notification In the offldsi 
gazette declare to be of a like natuie or use to saccharine, and Intermediates used lu the manu¬ 
facture of saccharine or s ich other substances and not fi-d by the Central Government as aforesaid. 

(19) Laborau ry chemicals, orgumic and Inorganic, as define n note 2 of CTA Heading 29 01/43 

(20) Caprolact on and dimethyl Tereptuhalate 

(21) Camphor. 

(221 Oxalic Acid 

(23) Calpium/Sodium Formate 

(24) Formaldehyde',. . * 

24. Organo-th; rapcutic gla. ds or other organs, dried whether or not powdered; organo-thernpoutloextracts 
of glands or other organs or of their secretions; other animal substances prepared for therapeutic or 
prophylactic uses, not elsewhere specified or Included 


M Antisera - microbial vaccines, toxins, mlrrohlal cultures (inc’udfnv ferments but excluding yeasts) 
and similar product-., 

?J Medicament (Including veterinary inodicauK nts) i 

(1) Not elsewhero specified. 

(2) Medicaments oontalnlng spirit. 

2d. Wadding gauze, bandages and similar articles (for example, adhesive plasters, poultlos), 30.04/03 
Impregnated or coated with pharmaceutical substances or put up In retail packings for medical or surgi¬ 
cal purposes: sterile surgical suture materials and other pharmaceutical goods specified in note 3 of 
C.T.A. Heading 30.04/05. 

3T. Tanning extracts of vegetable origin, tanning (tannic acids) and their derivatives, synthotlo organic 32,01/05 
tanning substances, ; tanning preparations, whether or not containing natural tanning materials) 
enzymatic preparations for pretanning (for example, of enzymatic, pan-creatlc| or bacterial orgln) i 

(1) Nol elsewhero specified 

(2) Gamblet. 

(3) Mineral tanning and tanning extracts of vegetable origin other than gambler. 

■lit Colouring matter; synthetic organic dyestuffs (Including pigment dye-stuffs); products of a kind used 32.04/12 
as luminophores; optical bleaching agent substantive to tna fibre, prepared pigments and prepared 
opadflers; prepared driers,'glass frit and other glass in ihe form of powder, granules or flakes; stamping 
foils i 

(1) Not elsewhere specified, 

(I) pigment dyestuff*. 

(3) Synthetic organic dyestuffs, nol elsewhere specified. 

45 Azo Dyn 
1 3) Sulphur Dyes 

;d) Vat dyes Including solubilized vat* 

(T) Optical bleaching agent 

Bssontial oils, natural of synthetic; aqueous distilliates and aqueous solutions of essential oils, including 33,01/06 
such products suitable for medical uses; concentrates md absolutes; resin olds; perfumery, cosmetic 
and toilet preparations, room deodorisers i 

(1) Nut elsewhere specified 

(?) Natural essential oils of cHronella, cinnamon and cinnamon leaf. 


30.02 

30,03 


- 0 ) 


30 01 




300 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. \] 

ANNEXURE 1 IO APPENDIX lV-Cowd 

CD m o) 

30. Lubricating preparations and preparations of a kind used for oil or E;r*a^e t'-Rtment uj textiles, ieatbci M.01/07 
or other materials, but not including preparations confutiing oi mere by re.gbl o e ptfiolirnm 
oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals. Artificial waxes (including wat r soluble waxes), 
prepared waxes, not emulsified or containing solvents and sodium lauryl sulphate, sodiumlauryl ether 
sulphate. 

i 1 The folio wing substances, and thoir derivatives, namely, casein, albumins, gelatin (whether or not coloured 

or surface-worked) peptones and other protein substances; Isinglass; hide powder; dextrins; soluble tj 01/07 
or roasted starches; enzymes, prepared eneymes and glues not elsewhere specified oi included r 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Gelatin, refined. 

32. Ferro-cerium and other pyrophoric alloys In all form* 36.01/08 

33 Chemical products and preparations of the chemical or allied Industries (Including those consisting it? 01 /lb 
of mixtures of natural products), not elsewhere specified ot Included i n "Ideal piod"cfs of the chemical 
or allied industries, not eolsewhere specified or Included i 

(1) Not elsewhere specified, 

(2) Activated Carbon. 

(3) Anti-knok preparations and prepared additives fur mlneraS oil- 

(4) Artificial Graphite. 

(5) Compound catalysts. 

(6) Plasticisers not elsewhere specified. 

(7) Prepared rubber chemicals, 

(8) Stockholm Tar, refined. 

(9) Water treatment chemicals, not elsewhere specified 


34 Condensation, polycondensation and polyaddltlon products, whether or not modified or polymerised, 39.01 /fifi 
and whether or not linear (for example, phenoplasts, aminoplasts, alkyds, polyallyl-esters and other 
unsaturated polystyrene, polyvinyl cboloride, polyvinyl derivatelves, polymethaorylic derivatives, 
coumaroneidenererins); regenerated cellulose; cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate and other 
cellulose esters, cellulose ethers and other celuloslo chemical derivatives of cellulosic, (for 
example, collodions, celluloid); vulcanised fibre; hardened gelatine; natural resins modified by 
fusion (run gums); artificial resins obtained by esterification of natural resin or of teslnic acids (ester 
gum) ;ohemical derivatives of natural rubber (for example, chlorinated rubber, rubb-r hydrochloride, 
oxidised rubber, oyclised rubber), other high polymers, artificial resins f id artificial pla*tir 
materials. Including alglnic acid, its salts and esters; liuoxyn. 

33. Articlos of materials described In Heading No 39.01/06, Asceptlc bags. 39,07 

36 Raw rubber, natural or synthutlc, rubber latex, natural or synthetic (including mixtures thereof) whothci 40.01 04 
or not pre-vulcanlsed; Balata, guttapercha and similar natural gums, factlce derived from oils; reclaimed 

rubber; waste and scrap of unhardoned rubber. 

37 Preparations (including master batches) of natural or synthetlo rubber; manufactures of natural or to.05/16 
synthetic rubber, whother or not vulcanised or hardened, not elsewhere specified; vulcanised rubber 

thread and cord, whether or not textile covered, and textile thread covered or Impregnated with vulca¬ 
nised rubber; waste and scrap of hardened rubber; 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Rubber tyres and tubes for wheels of all kind* 

(3) Transmission, conveyor or elevator bolti or belting or vulcanised lUbb-o 

(4) Asoepdc Bags, 



srrca 3 tt Tms; ssmisrra 


301 


[wr 1—5® 1] 


iNNEXUHB t TO ATPBNDIX 19 — Coma, 


(3) . (2) 


38. Raw bides a id Skins (fresh, .salted, dried, pel-led or limui), whether or not split, including sheep-skins 
in the wool. 

39. Bovine cattlei eather (including buifalo leather) raid equine leather; sheep and lamb skin leather, 
other kinds of leather including ceuipurition leather, parings and other waste of leather or of compo¬ 
sition leather. 


40. Furskim and artificial fur and article:., rude U ei. - : -. , ... . , 

41. Wood in the rough/;uei we.-ti c.'.a wc., J civkisrasi; wood Hour and Wood wool; sawn tnd dressed 
timber; veneered wood, plywood, cellular wood, improved wood and reconstituted wood; fibre, budding 
board of wood or ethet vegetable material, whether or not bonded with natural or Ottihcial resins or 
with Other organic hinders; spool, bobbins ana the liV: •■f turned wood; articles of wood, not else¬ 
where specified : 

(1) Not elsewhere specified! 

(2) Fibre building bemd T -.o- u nhe; ve-gtS.-l'l*-; materir.i, whether or not bonded vrifii 'duo 

Organic binders. 


4 2. Natural or agglomerated cork and ai.tue-- thei> f, vo . o..». . 

43. Rayon grade wood pulp '. ... i, 

44. Paper and proper board, all sorts, wheriiei in roils, sheets or cut to size or shape (including cellulose 
wadding, composite paper of paper bead and impregnated, coated, corrugated, embossed, perforated, 
surface coloured or decorate^, ruled or printed paper or paper board); filter blocks, slabs and plates of 
paper, pu!p;■ stationery made of paper or paper board; articles not elsewhere specified, of paper, paper 
board; paper pulp or cellulose wadding : 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Newsprint containing mechanics! wood puip amounting to not less than 70% of the fibre content 
{excluding chrome, marble, flint, poster, stereo; and art paper), 

(3) Ollier printing and writing paper 

45. Transfers (Dcsalcornnmas) . 

46. Mulberry raw silk of ail grades ineluiHn^ dupion ........ 

47. Spun silk yarn . id tvii y-tru, .. 

48. ffara of man-tnace isbro (ccnRu-jo;;*); ciuiiotil, strip (artificial straw and the like) and imitation catguts 
of man-made fibre and Nylon Sewing Thread 

49. Woven fabrics man made fibres (continuous), including woven fabrics of monofilor strip of Heading 
No. 31.01/03. 

50. Wool and other antuwl iialr,j yarn/woven fabrics of sheep’s or lamb’s wool . . . 


SI, Flsi and rom«*i . - • .. 

$2. Mixod/olended fabrics manufactured out at man made fibre/yame !n which cotton piedomlnates in 
weight; cotton deniro/cordupoy fabric-; 

%, Cotton Heavy Sheeting/Coilon drili/c 

with weight not lesr- than 22f> gma per 5q. tsi 


S3 fcSan-toade fibril <fc : - t-iv .-safe dnd'ng y«n waste and pulled or garnetted rags) of 

man-made fib'es (t.'tilm.<>u» <■*•' .ri.'V'iUmc’S-O -.farther or nor carded or combed or otherwise pre¬ 
pared for spinning; .ontioaouv Lw ‘ 


34. Bonded thread with synthetic filaments having more than 217 centers and Sewing thread (wax coated) 
having more than 217 denier ..... . . » - 

31. yarn e? man-made fihrvi (dhr'-atoaso.-.wfc*.s, . . . . 

38, Woven fabric* -rf m-a- u-.de-fibr» fdiwoVi-n.»a* «: 


8?. 


as. 

19. 


40 • 


Hemp (msstt-t! stad s!*k fibs! 

Webbing- 

1 1 

Wadding and sell iuciudtng ar.-.nis 
article* of a kind writable fo t Indus*;-, 
ni rmalietf-i 

aid Ike 111 t, b ;’U.» cl • .-ih-.r- ’ 



thcfrtst: isbrk* -isip/eRvated and coated !nbr’,,. fez-til.* 

V ;?'* a’!. 1 , f'.lastic far-t* 

; y> - - r t-.NVlsed'i osier (ASvmnat*. gloves, »Socklng» 


gi. Cv.-hriJ* i-n a-,.; *- * ! 

11. On«*l» p#«l teg* 


(3) 

41.01 
41.02/10 


4,1.01/04 
44.0 i/i28 


ib.01(01 
47. Oi 
48.01/21 


49.08/11 
50.02 
50.03/03 
51.01/03 

51.04 

53.01/05, 
53.06/10 and 
53.11/13 

54.01/02 and 
54.03/04 

55.07/09 


56.01/04 


56.05/06 

56.03/06 

56.0” 

Sf.01/04 
58.05 

59.01/13 

i , 

60.01/06 

61 01/11 

62 031/05 


. -1 






302 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I—Sec. 1 ] 


ANNEXURE 1 TO APPENDIX 19 —Contd 


i 




A 


a 


S3. Para of footwear Toe caps, Toe Puffs, Box Toes in soles, raid soles and gaiter* and the !lkt , , 64.01/06 


64. Accessories for umbrella* .... . . ... . 66.01/08 

65. Friction materials (segments, discs, washers, strios, sheets, plates, rolls and the like) of a kind suitable 68,01/16 
for brakes, for clutches or the like, with a basis of asbestos, other mineral substances ot of cellulose, 

whether or not combined with textile or other materials. 


63A. Ceramic product*...69.01 to 69.14 

66. Glass and glass ware, including containers for the conveyance or packing of goods, envelopes for electric TO.01/16 
lamp, electronic valves or the like, inner* for vacuum flasks, articles of stationery, illuminating glass¬ 
ware, optical glass, clock and watch glasses and bracks, tiles, slabs and ■dmilar articles of a kind com¬ 
monly used in buildinv. 


6?. Laboratory, hygienic and pharmaceutical glassware, whether or not graduated or caiiberat“<1 glass 
ampoules, optical glass and elements of optical glass, other than optically worked elements blanks 
for corrective spectacle lenses. 

/ 

68. Glass beads, imitation pearls. Imitation precious and semi-precious stones, and simsiai fancy or deco¬ 
rative glasswares, and articles of glassware made therefrom, glass cubes and small gall glass plates for 
decorative purpose; articles eyes of glass excluding those for wear by humans; ornaments and other 
fancy a'ticles of lamp worked glass; glass grains (ballotmi). 

69. Glass ,ibre (including wool) yarns, fabrics and article* mads fhtretina* 

7fi Other articles ot gf&ts 

71. Industrial diamonds and synthetic diamond powder 

73. Pig-iroa, ca*J Iron and *pi@gste!*eo, in pig*, block*, lumps and similar Io.'ku 

73. Ferro-alloys . . 

74. Waste and scrap metal, shot asd angular grit (whether or not graded); wire pellets, iron.oi < vs powdenj 
sponge iron or steel. 

75. Puddled bars, pilings, ingots, blocks, lumps and similar forms, blooms, billets, slabs and bhcel bars 
(including tinplate bars), of Iron or steel; pieces roughly shaped by forging, of iron or steel t 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Pieces roughly shaped by forging of Iron or steel. 

?6. Iron or steel coils for re-rolling .... 


.17/18 


70 19 

70.20 

78.21 
Tl.fW 
73.01 
73.02 
73.03/05 

73.06/07 


73 08 


77. Universal plates of iron or steel .... ... 

78. Bars and rods ^including wire rod), of iron or steel, hot rolled, forged, extruded, cold formed or cold- 
finished (including precision made); hollow mining drill steel. 

I 

??. Angles, shapes and sections, of iron Or steel, hot rolled, forged, extruded, cold formed or cold-finished; 
sheet piling of iron c>r steel, whether or not drilled, b unshed or made from assembled elements. 

80. Hoop end strip, of iron or steel, hot rolled or cold-rolled, . . , 

81. Sheet* and plate*, of iron or steel, bet-rolled nr oold~w.Bcd i ... 

82. fees or iteel wire, whether or sot coated, bat sot insulated . . , 


73.09 

73.10 

73.11 1 

73 I? 

73.13 

73.14 


83. Alloy xeel and high carfeoa iteelfo tae forms mentioned in headings Not 73.06,0* m 73. M * . , fi.lS 

(I) Not elsewhere specified. 

O' Coll* ter ra-roKirsjj (Including onghi bara). rod*, wire rocn. strips, sheets and plat#« of *tai©- 
less «fw5 


84 Hallway and tramway track construction material of Iron or steel, ihe following s 

Rad*, check-rails, switch blades, crossings (or frogs), crossing piece,, point rods, rack, rails, sleeper*, 
rah plates, chairs, ,.Hilr wedges, «■>.(* dates ;_ba<te plates), vv! dips, K l plat**, tie* snate'Hal 

-.ipdfied for jo'.iiox fixing rail* 


73.18 




wpn—n i] 


WTTtf <CTTm*:tdTTUK'>T 


303 


ANNEXURE 1 TO APPENDIX 19— Contd. 


(l) 


( 2 ) 


SI. Tubes and pipes and blank* therefor, of Iron or steel i. . 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Drilling tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, 

0) Tubes and pip** for boilers falling within Heading No. $4 01/02 and blank*. Itierefm. 

(4) Tubes and pipes sheathed «r lined with corrosion-resisting material, such a-, glass, rubber and 
plastic. 

Tube and pipe fittings (for example, Joints, elbows, unloas and flanges), of Iren or steel 

if. Structure* and parts of structures (for example hangers and other buddings, bridges and bridge-sections, 
lock gates, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing-frameworks, door and window frames, shutters, balus¬ 
trades, plilors and columns), of iron or steel; plates, strips, rods, angles, shapes sections, tubes and th* 
Uke, prepared for use in itniatures of Iron or steel. 

*8. Reservoir*, task*, vats, casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar conuiters for any material (other than 
compressed or Uquifled gas), of Iron or ftteel. 

.9. Container* of Iron or steel, for compressed or liquified gas ....... 

0. Stranded wire, cable*, cordage, rape*, plaited band*, dings and th* like, of iron or steel wire, but exclu¬ 
ding Insulated electric cable*. 

I. Barbed Iron oi steel wire; twisted hood or single fiat wire, barbed or not, and loosely twisted double 
wire of kinds used for fencing, of Iron or steel. 

i Queue, doth, grin, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric* and similar materials, of Iron or stool wire) ex¬ 
panded mem of Iron or »tcd. 

3. Chela *ad pert* thereof of Iron or a teal i . ..... 

(1) Hot elsewhere specified. 

Mooring chains. 

4. Anchor* and grapnels and parts thereof, of Iron or steel .. 

■J, Nells, tacks, staples, hook-nails^ oorrugated nails, spiked cramps, studs, spikes and drawing pins, of 
Iron or steel, whether or not with heads of other materials, but not including such articles with heads 
of ooppor. 

6. Bolts and nuts (Including bolt ends and scrow studs) whether or not threaded or tapped, and screws 
(Including screw hooks and screw rings), of Iron or steel; rivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers and spring 
washers, of iron or steel. 

7. Mber article* of bon of steel... 


8. Copper mnltei unwrought ooppsr (refined or not)ioopper waste end scrap; master alloys . 

9 . Wrnaght bars, rods, eagle*, shape* and sections of popperi copper wire* i < 

U) Not eRewhsr* specified. 

fit! Bara, rode, angle*, shapes, sections and wire of unalloyed copper. 

*, WtwWflW plat**, sheets, strip and foil, of copper , . ......... 

5>, Utappw powders end take* .... ....... 

\ Vnfwo and pipes and Mink* therefor, of copper \ hollow ton of copper; tube end pipe fittings (for 
enempts. Joints, elbow*, sockets and fiaages), of copper i 

(1) Not elsewhere sped fled. 

(Kl Tube* and pipe* and blanks therefor, and hollow bars, of nominal bore exceeding 19 millimeters. 

, ®th*t articles of copper Including nails, tacks, staples, hook nails, spiked cramps, studs, spikes and 
drewluq pHs of Hon w steel with heads of copper. 

,* 'WteW* inatfei*, nickel spies* and other Intermediate product* of nickel metallurgy j unwrought nickel 

fAtafoDittg eWctm-pliiting anode!)] nickel waste and scrap. 


(3) 

73.17 IP 


73.20 

n 21 

¥ 3 . 21/23 

73.24 

71.23 

73.26 

73.27/28 

73 29 

73.30 

73.31 

73.32 

73.33/40 

74.01/02 

74.03 

74.04/03 

74.06 

74.07/08 

74.09/19 

73.01 





304 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 


ANNEXURE 1 TO APPENDIX 1 9—Cont4. 


(1) (2) 3i 

105. Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections of nickel wire i 75,02 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Electrical resistance wires of Dickel chrome and other nickel alloys. 

10(t. Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of nickel; nickel foil; nickel powders and (lakes . . . 75,01 

107. Other articles of nickel. ... . .75 04705 

108. Unwrought aluminium; aluminium waste and scrap t 76.01 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 


(2) Unalloved aluminium In any crude form, including Ingots, blocks, slabs, bills h, it ;c bars, shot, 
and pellets. 

109. Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes, and sections of aluminium; aluminium who. . . 76.02 

110. Wrought plates, sheets, and strip of aluminium; aluminium foil i .... , 76.03/Jt 

(1) Not elsewhere specified, 

(2) Wrought plates, sheets, stilp and foil, of unalloyed aluminium. 


111. Aluminium powder and flakes. ... 76.05 

112. Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of aluminium; hollow bars of aluminium; tubes and pipe fittings 76.06/07 
(for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges) of aluminium. 

113. Other arttetes of aluminium . , ... 76.08/16 

114. Magnesium unwrought or wrought, and articles of magnesium. 77.01/03 

115. Beryllium unwrought or wrought and articles of beryllium. , 77.04 

116. Unwrought lead (including argentiferous lead); lead waste and scrap i , M 


(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Unalloyed lead, unwrought. 


117. Lead wrought and articles of lead ... 78.02'0(i 

118 Unwrought zinc; zinc waste and scrap i 79.01 

(1) Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Unalloyed zioo, unwrought. 

119. Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, o( zwc; and zinc wire 79.02 

120. Wrought plates, sheets and strip of line; line foil; zinc powders and flakes 79 03 

121. Other articles of zinc ......... 79.04/0(1 

122. Unwrought tin; tin/waste and scrap| .... 80 01 

(1) Not elsewhere specified, 

(2) Unalloyed tin, unwrought 

123. Tin wrought and articles «f tin tiO.U'2/i)r. 

124. Tungsten, molybdenum, tantalum »nd other base metal* and cenn«t« wrought nr tnwr-ingfet. ewrt HI 01/01 
articles thereof i 

(li Not elsewhere specified. 

(2) Urt“lIoyed tungsten, uinljhOtntuB, tsetalom sad otfc'r oxUK «#irto«gh- 


125 l l *ttj (of trmtol) of tnoh anO f r >pl< 

Peru* 1 <b« 


» >»HJ « ■ ST U*,t 









[*nn i—1] 


■*rra cr warsm^i 


m 


ANNEXURE i IO APPENDIX 19 -Conta 

(5) (2) 

126 Locks, all sorts (including frames incorp >'-<t,ng lock , . ) r Handbags, tranks or fittings and moun¬ 
tings of a kind suitabHa for furmtuie, doo-., sta-jcase.,, blinds, coach-work, saddlery, trunks, caskets 


and lighting fittings and p’rts thereof (excluding articles taihne within Chapter 85 ) ; fittings (for example, 
clasps, buckle .hooks, eyes and cyeieL) of a kint con m inly a^ed for clothing, travel goods, oi other 
textile or leather goodjs, tabular r vet-' and biur-ated nve's 

127 Parts ana acc^ssorv-tf inachiicrv, rnechank d uppin ' es filing uider Heading Ncs 84 0, i h4.iv 


128. Taps, cocks, valves odd similar iphances foi pipe., ooutr jells, u iks. vat and th- ! ike including 
pressure reducing salves and the'n ostatic.iUy coninUeJ ■-s! “ 

129 Ball roller or needle niter bcpr.iHi 

13Q. Transmssion shafts, ctaiiks oc ir i gs nousing^ (-••'ms*- ft c^anngs, ge san . ^ 

guars and gear-boxe„ rnd othc \ triable spe-u gears , flywheels, pulleys un , , hi *’,<■ vh. win"’ 

i art 3 shaft couplings 

131. Gaskets and urmlar joints or metal .fleeting it mhuieo with >iti er matemi (for example r.shesios, felt 
and paper board) or of laminated metal fod, set on, , meats of gasket, and similar joints, dissimilar 
m composition, for engines pipes, tube, and the flk>, put up m pouches, envelopes or similar packings, 

132. Electrical machinery apd equiprm m; pair, fb ■‘eot 

133 karts of railway rnd tiamway lO-om Hive and roUing-st ick, railway and tramway track tku.es and 
fittings; mechanical equipment, not electrically p >wered f ji signalling or to ltrollmg ruaJj, ran or ot-e, 
vehicles ship 1 - or airejraft: parts of the forego ug fixture. , fittings equipment. 

134 farts and accessoues pt the vehicle- falling vuh n Heading N -s. 87.01 to 87.09/12 . 

135. Parts of ships, boats arid floating siructn 


136. Parts of optical, phofograpnic, „wuHtog,ap no tdieum •„ precKio , tuedl'dl and surgie«< ,r” i.rn 

and apparatus. 

137. Parts, Including watch movement- -if the following arlUes j- 

Clock and watch of 411 types, umi or day recording ippararus, apparatus with clr>a\ or v aten move¬ 
ments or with synchronous motoi, for measur.ng, recouling or otherwise indicating intervals of time, 
time switches with clock or watch movement or w th yuchronous motor 

it8. Parts, components and accessone, o< grarnc phones, d ett ing machines and other sound recorders and 
reproducers including record players in 1 tape decks wi*h o without so ind bonds; television image 
and sound recorders and reproducers, magnetic 

139. Parts, ci mpooents and Juces.orua < f furn.tarc inuuua t, ucuicd.'dai, nr vctiruiary .oiul* 

ture. 

140 Parts, components of toys, gomes n * spot j ra juu c 

S41. Buttons and button moulds, t d >, cuntnks a d puis fed. ios, i'siudii.g -.n ip-faqenerr-, itfp-f rtereo 
(slide fastened! and press-studs; b»an’s and par ■> such -r tides 


0) 

83.01/15(3) 


84 di/&2i 184 60 ao<j 
hi 64 

84,ol 

31 i>2 
j4 41 

84.M ‘ 

85.01 to 85 28 

86 09, 86 Id 

87 04/06 and 87.09 12 

73 30, 84 65 and 
89 01/03 to 89 05 

9u 01 to 90.29 

91 01/11 

«2 01/lt 

94.01/04 

97 01/08 

98 01/02 



306 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Past I— Sec. 1] 


ANNEXURB II TO APPENDIX 19 
Usl of permissible items of Import 


S. Raw material for Intermediate product for 
No. import. export production. 


<D (2) (3) 

14. Refined Gelatine Empty Gelatine Capinion 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


1. Raw Wool 


2. Mulberry Raw Silk 


4. Dimethyl Teteplha- 
lato (DMT), Tere 
Pthalic Add (TPA), 
Mono Ethylene Gly¬ 
col, Titanium Dioxid? 
(all grade*). 

i. Nylon Filament Yarn/ 
Polyester Filament 
Yarn. 

6. Oaprolactum 

7. Acrylic fibre. 

a. Electrolytic tin platu. 


9. Kraft paper and paper 
board other than ivory 
board. 

10. High denslty/Low den¬ 
sity Polyethylene 
Moulding Powder. 

11. Polypropylene mould¬ 
ing powder 

12. PV(J Resins, Plastiol 
*cr« and Stabilisers. 


13. Stainte** no* .olLd 
Shed »/8* tip* 
(non magnetic 1 


(3) 


Wool Top. / woollen 
worsted fabries 

100% Mulberry Silk Fab¬ 
rics of filature/reeled 
yam in the warp a* 
well as weft, other than 
dupion yam. 


Polyester Filament yarn. 


Fabric* made of Nylon 
Filament Yam/Poly- 
eiter Filament Yarn. 

Nylon Filament Yam. 

Acrylio Yam. 

O. T. 8. Gans/Dlngeley 
Cana. 

Gartoiu, printed or not. 
Multi—wall paper sack* 


Articles of LDPB/ 
HDPH In any form 


Article* made ot poly¬ 
propylene, In any iorin 

PVG eoojpouiid/PVG 
products including 
PVG leathei cloth 
used |n fabrication 
Industry, *hoo industry 

Odd Rolled 
Stool Shn'* t i< t. 'li. 
gnetk } 


13. Para Nitro Phenol, 

Id, Lauryl Alcohol, Caus- 
rtio Soda. 

17. Aniline Oil, Cyanuric 
Chloride, Diethanola¬ 
mine, Para Nitro 
Toluene. 

IS. Methanol, Forrmo 
Add. 

19. Lauryl Alcohol, Tri¬ 
ethanolamine, 


20. Phenol. Methanol 


21. Polyol, Isocynate 


23. Benzene 


24. Toluene 


25. Naptbalene 


26. Beta-Napbthol 

27. Ammonia and Metha¬ 
nol 


28, Dychlone 

29. Copper Scrap 


30. Metbnol/Anillne 

31. Behenlo Add and/oi 
Behenlc Methyl Biter. 

12. Palm Stearin and /m 
Palm Add Oh 


Paracetamol. 

Sodium Lauryl leather 
Sulphate. 

Optical Whitening Agonts 
for making detergent* 


Pcntaerythrltol tOi 
making Paint*. 

Sodium Lauryl oulphate. 

Triethanolamine Lauryl 
Sulphate for making 
Shampoo and Tooth 
Paste. 

Phenol formaldehyde 
moulding powder for 
making Plastla Elect*!- 
eal AooeMorles. 

Polyurethane Foam 


P.N.T. (Par* Nltra 
Toluene). 

Synthetic fanning 

Agent*. 

Tobias Add, 

DMA IDimetbylamlne) 
MMA (Monoroctby 
lamlno) 

Hydratobenathw. 

Copper Oajr«hio#»t:* 
Technical 

Dimethyl Aniline. 

Bebenyl Alcohol 


uctostea* {i . 


Dimethyl Terepthalate Polyester 
(DMT), Monoethylene fibre. 
Glycol 


Fibrc/fllament 


22. Methanol, Wood Pulp Urea Formaldehyde 

Moulding Powder. 

Aniline, O.N.G.B., Nit¬ 
robenzene. 





<rmT T l vy l 


307 


[-•mr i—sr? 1] 


VfNBXlJRfc It 10 Al'lM’NDJX iV . w« 


SI. Raw mtaeria' for 
No import 

( 1 ) ) 


33. P.N.T. (Para Nitro 
Toluene). 


Intermediate product for 
export production 

(3) " 


Diamino Stilbcne Disul- 
phonic Acid 


34. Nitrobenzene 


Metanilic Acid 


35. Aniline Sulphanihc Acid Diethyl 

Aniline. 


36. (a) Insole Material in 
sheet and roll 
form Including 
leather, 

y Insoles. 

(b) Reinforcement in j 
fibre plastic or 
treated cardboard I 
In roll or sheet | 
form. J 


37, (a) Counter material 
In roll or sheet 
form Including 
leather. 

f Counters 

(b) Synthetic material | 

In sheet form | 
for counters J 


38. Synthetic material In Toe Pufls 
roll or sheet form for 
Too Puffs. 


SI. Raw material for 
No. Import 

(l7 (2) 

39. (a) Soling materials 
in sheet form in¬ 
cluding sole leather 

(b) Wells in continu¬ 
ous length of cut 
pieces in leather 
and In synthetic 
material 

(c) Heel core in plas¬ 
tic, wood or syn¬ 
thetic material. 

(d) Veneer for cover¬ 
ing of heels in 
leather and PVC 
coated material 
In sheet or cut 
form 

(e) Heel lip* and top 
lilts in leather and 
synthetic material 
or In combination 

(f) Adhesive* 

(g) Serovs, nails-, or 
fittings for fixing 
the heel tips or top 
lifts. 


Intermediate product for 
export production 

" of 


Unit soles 


*0 (a) Moulded Plastic ) 

Blocks | 

i 

(h) Sei of Uhiget \ 

I 

(«) Thimbles ^ Plastic Lusts 

f 

(d; Mdel sheet foi ) 

Bottom plating 1 

I 

{«) Serratco Nall* j 



308 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


]Part I—Sec. 1] 


ANNHXURb III TO APPENDIX i9- 


Copy of Miatotef of Finaacc, Department ul 
Revenue, Notificalioa No, 210/82-Customs. dat*d 
10-9-82. 

Q.S.R. 560(E).—in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub-section (1) ox sectios „5 of ib* 
Customs Act, 19 (j 2 (52 of 1962), tbs Centra' 
lovjirnmenf, being satisfied tbw: it i# necessary in the 
public interest so to do, hereby exempts raw materials 
and components requited for the manufacture of goods 
to be supplied to International Development 
Association or International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development or Bilateral or Multilateral aided 
projects or Oil and Natural Gas Commission or Oil 
India Ltd. when imported into India, from the whole 
of the duty of customs leviable thereon which is 
specified in the First Schedule to the Customs Tariff 
Act, 1975 (51 of 1975) and the whole of the 
additional duty leviable thereon under section 3 of the 
second mentioned Act subject to the following 
conditions, namely 


{1) that the importer nas been granted necessary 
import licence or release order on the 
concerned canalising agency by the dcamr.-j, 
authority as .specified in the Import (Cor*rc«y 
Order, 1955, for the fir-port or rehtue ' ? 
taw materials and components kr - 
aforesaid purpose! 


(2) that the import licence contains toe 
following endorsements inte* alia :— 


(a) the description, quantity and value & 
taw materials and components allowed 
to be imported under ibe aid licence, 

(b) the description and quantity of raw 
materials and components allowed to 
be imported duty-free; and 


(c) the description and quantity of good, 
to be manufactured out of, or with, 
the imported materials. 

(3) that the importer executes a bond in such 
form and for such sum as may be specified 
by the said licensing authority binding 
himself to fulfill the obligations and 
conditions stipulated in thi* notification and 
to pay on demand, an amount equal to the 
duty leviable on the said r m materials and 
components us arc not proved to the 
satisfaction of the said licensing authority to 
have been used for the aforesaid purpose* 
atari 

(4) that the importer produces evidence to the 
satisfaction of the said Hocusing authority, 
for eii? purpose o£ discharging 'the liability 
in respect of customs duty m well as lot 
discharging She obligation# against the said 
’icensje. 

l. Thi# notification shah be In force upto and 
inclusive of the 10th day of September, 1987. 


tt mm: wmwr 


ANNEXURE IV TO APPENDIX 19 


Jurisdiction of regional licensing authorities. 


Jt. CCI&E. 
Bombay 


Jt. CCI&E. 
Madras. 


Jt. CCI&E, 
Calcutta. 


Jt. CCI&E 
(CLA), 
New Delhi. 


Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya 
Pradesh, Union Territories of 
Goa, Daman, Diu and Dadra 
and Nager Haveli. 

Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, 
Andhra Pradesh, Union Terri¬ 
tories of Pondicherry, Karaikal, 
Mahe and Yanam and Laksba- 
deep. 

West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, 
Assam, Meghalaya, Sikkim, 
Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, 
Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram 
and Union Territory of 
Andaman & Nicobar Islands, 

Haryana, Punjab, Uttar 
Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, 
Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, 
and Union Territories of 
Chandigarh and Delhi. 



THE OAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1 ] 


310 

ETr; - ' m —-J ^ r~—— iVi LU r—^.’jT"r &=g=Sg=3=a l i ' Mi n m.‘ i—qwucEM^fl i giirr iir-ryri =^n= rifiJ > u-t^-iJ r .j ff Di ~ 

A^hJfcfXURB V IO APPENDIX IV 

(a the following type* of cam ths Advance Licensing Committee ha* already approved Inpal/outpit normr tad tb# applies Mcm# 
of tit* parties whenever received for the grant of advenes Itoonce* are cleared on the bail* of thee# normsi 


SI. 

No. 

Description of the Expert Produtd 

Description of raw material 

Qty.of 

Export 

^owed 

Stowed 




product 

for 

with doty 





import 

exemption 

benefit 




C|l. 

Kg*. 

*8*. 

1 

1 

3 

4 

1 

4 

1, 

Gahanleed Pipet/Tutxw 

Hot Rolled carbon (ttel sheeti/strtpa/ 

1 

O.OTttf 

O.3T40 



plataa/ooUs (other than high oarboa 
■ted. 






iElac. 


0.0V 

0.89 

it. 

Seemlee* steal tabes. 

Seamless bare/bllleti/hloomi. 

1 

1.03 

1,03 

3 

Black Plpee/tube* Including Precision Tobn. 

Hot rolled carbon eted theets/etrlpe/platce/ 1 

1,03 

1.03 


colli (other than high carbon eteel) 




4. 

100% Mulberry Raw Silk fabrlos/ojndeupi (othci 
than tbmo made of Dupion). 

100% Mulheny dupion sfll! fabric* 

Mulbery raw Silk of any Grade 
(other than dupion yam) 

1 

1.40 

l. 31 

3, 

Mulberry dupion yarn 

1 

1.40 

1,33 

d. 

Mulberrymlxed silk fabrlcs/raade-nps/garro.'Did contain. 

</) Mulberry Raw Silk of any grade 

1 

0 10 

0 28 


log mainly Dupion Yarn, 

(other than Dupion Yam), 






C U ) Dupfott Vara. 


1.10 

1.01 

f. 

Noll Silk fabi’lct/innde-e^/garment*. 

Noll Yam. 

1 

1.19 

I.W 

8. 

Span 911k fabric* /made-upe/garment*. 

Span Silk Yarn. 

1 

1.11 

1.11 

9. 

ArHolee of if:>*lery/Knitwear! made of 100% Stoke b. 

Mohair Top*. 

1 

1.330 

1.300 


Scoured Mohair. 

1 

1.500 

1.400 

10. 

Article* of Hosiery /Knitwear* made of 100% wool. 

(a) Raw wool (Merino typo) MPL 

59 mm and below or MFF 24 

1 

1.598 

I.30T 



microns and below 






(b) Raw wool (Shetland type) MPL 
60 mm and above of MFF bet¬ 

1 

1.462 

1.392 



ween 24 and 28 microns. 




li. 

Articles of Hosiery/Knitwear* mad* of 100% wool. 

Woollen Yarn. 

1 

1.120 

1.101 

12. 

Worsted yarn. 

Ra w Wool. 

k 

1.237 

1.211 

13. 

Wool Tope. 

Raw Wool. 

l 

1.150 

1.11 

14. 

Fabrloi/etrawl* mad* of 100% Wool. 

Raw Wool. 

i 

1.363 

I.30S 

13, 

fabrics and Hosiery made from 100% manmade fllstneai 
yam/tsitorlied yam. 

Filament Yarn. 

i 

1,173 

1,111 

Id, 

fabrics manufactured cot of Y*r« tpon from man-roads 
fibres. 

Maw-made Fibre* 

I 

*.12* 

i ue 

IT. 

Yam spun out of man-made fibres. 

Mawmade fibre* 

k 

1.100 

1.82 1 

18. 

Acrylic Knitwear* made oat of 100% Acrylic. 

Acrylic Fibre*. 

i 

1.23 

l.fl 

19. 

Acrylic Knitwear* made oat of 100% Acrylic, 

Acrylic Yam. 

i 

1.130 

l.lft 

30, 

811k Carpet*. 

Span Silk Yarn. 

i 

1.180 

1.13* 

21. 

Bra** srlware/Brae* fittings 

Bran scrap. 

l 

1.03 

1.03 

«2, 

Articles road* of plaetici (other than PVCT. 

Relevant plaetici raw meterlels. 

i 

1.0| 

1.03 

21. 

Blgld PVC pipe*. 

PVC resln/granulet 

i 

t.Of 

1.03 

14. 

flexible PVC 

PVC restn/granole*. 

i 

0.40 

6 as 

as. 

Oarmeatt, (.aether »ood«, Vrsvel r>i*de. stt 

‘Zip Fait***i 

H*t to Not Net to Net 

24. 

Made La*s*tte*/pr#-rwari5jd Camfaw 

"'Bleak oftfsette* 

Nst to Net 

Bet to N, 


«Hh3 

refers no* 
to the 
length. 





311 


[ *i Ml I-'Q B lj 


\NNHXrm V JO APJTNDIX Ci nU 


1 

2 

1 

4 

S 

() 

*?. 

Oaro rents, travel Goods etc. 

Bultoa»/Sn,i p & Press PuBteners/Stndsi 
cufflink*. 1 

Net to 

Net 

Net to 
Net 

28, 

M S. Bart. 

M S. Billet, 

1 

1 01 

1 03 

29 

Silicon carbide. 

R« n petroleum C its 

1 

1 JO 

* 30 

30 

Tit blets/capsulen. 

Active ingredient. 

1 

1.03 

1 03 

11 . 

Drug formulatlom HfcAyrup*. Injections. 

Active Ingredient 

1 

1 10 

1.10 

12, 

OpthulmJc lenses. 

Rough blanks. 

ton Nns. 

110 Nos. 

110 No*. 

S3. 

(a) Steel files of High Carbon Steel 

High Carbon Ska.! 

i 

1.13 

1.13 


(bi), Stiel flies of Alloy steel 

Alloy steel 

i 

1,13 

1 13 

*4, 

O.T.S. Cans/dingoley oatw. 

Electrolytic tin plate. 

l 

1.13 

1 13 

If*. 

Jams/Jelly etc, packed wltbO.T.S .jm ijlogeley cat*. 

O.T.S. Oans/dingelry cans 

100 Nos. 

100 No*. 

100 Nos. 

M, 

Stainless steel safely rayor blade* 

Stainless steel strip*. 

1 Million 
blade* 

988 Kgs. 

988 Kgs 

«. 

flvVij ro'oi hlsilr*. 

C.otd rolled steel fltr !py 

* Million 

Hades 

9)6 Kgs. 

936 Kgs 

38 

Tyre t>‘fld Wire 

(0 High Carbon Wire rods 

1 

1.03 

> 03 



(«) Lead, 


2 00 

2 00 

I". 

Rings, lid and Tagger Assemblies 

Blectrolytic Prime quality Tin Plate. 

1 M.T. 
of Ring 
&1M 

(excluding 

1.80 

M.T. 

1.30 

M.T 




tagger) 



4(1. 

Round tops/ends (bottoms) of containers. 

Rlcctrolytlc Prime quality Tin Plate. 

1 M.T 

1.4 

M.T, 

1.23 

M T 

♦*. 

Rectangular top* rtttcd with screw neck A handle and 
bottoms. 

—do— 

I M.T, 
(One set 
Of Top 
and 

Bottom) 

1.20 

MT 

1.10 

MT 

V, 

Tyres srKJ T«b*» 






(#) Tyres with Nylon tyre Cord/Tyre, with Rayon Tyrs 
cord. 

(() Natural rubber/synthetic rubber. 

100 Kga. 

33 Kgs. 

S3 K«» 



<rt) Carbon black 

100 Kgs. 

23 Kgs 

23 Kg* 



ijl() Nyfon/Reyon (relevaut Item) 

100 Kgs. 

13 Kgs. 

13 Kgs 



((b) Bead Wire. 

100 Kgs. 

4 Kgs. 

4 Kgs. 


is) Pigraente/Chetnlcals, the foJ* 100 Kgn, 
lowing i— 


(1) Rubber Chemicals (Anti- 2,00 2 00 

oxident*, Acclerator, re- 
larder* and Peptisers). 

(Import of Antioxidants how- 
cver, shall not exceed 1 Kg. for 
each 2 Kgs. of Rubber Chemi¬ 
cals allowed.) 

2,00 2 00 


(?) Zinc Oxides 





[Part I—Sec. 1] 


312 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


ANNdACKhV D, APPEND ;\ i9--4C*.'. 


2 s 4 9 fl- 


r - ‘ vffc r?s -•'slE U' ''»■-! 7.8 7.8 

'^tfiiriis/Oh-^.u % •••-> s : 

1 If.-’ w. 

ffia is-js, p%nkoa. ~-ad 
softener 4j"pboT. ster-dc 

acid, solvents. Plasticizers, 
synthetic resins, bonding/ 
coupling agents, activators 
and fillers, dip chemicals, 
mould release agents, tacki- 
flers and catalysts and 
sylofT. 




(4) Resorcinol 


0.2 

0.2 


(dl Butyl t be--, othe ft n rycle :>tbcs 

(?) Butyl rubber 

100 Kgs. 

53 Kgs. 

S3 Kgs 



(?/) Cu rb on black. 

100 Kgs, 

30 Kgs, 

3#Kgs 


(■:) Natural rubber Cycle tyres 

(!) Natuf *1 rubber 

100 Kgs. 

26 Kgs. 

26 Kgs 



(It) Synthetic rubber 

100 Kgs. 

?Kgs. 

7 Kgs. 



'«} Carbon black 

100 Kgs. 

5 Kgs. 

3 Kgs. 


(d) Butyl cycle tubes 

(1) Carbon black 

500 Kgs. 

31 Kgs. 

31 Kgs. 



{//) Bu*yl rubber 

100 Kgs. 

31 Kgs. 

51 Kgs. 


(e) Natural rubber tubes 

(t) Carbon black 

100 Kg®. 

6,5 Kgs. 

6.3 Kgs. 



(??) Natural rubber 

100 Kgs. 

71 Kgs. 

71 Kgs. 

fioTB i—Against the export of Tubs;, covered by Sub-Serials (d) and (e) above, one set of valve for ea ;h tube shall also be allowed 

but its weight will be ignored for purpose of determining the net weight of the tubes to be exported. 

43. 

Aluminium Piston-, exported in fully machined condition 

• fj Aluminium 

1 MT of 

Piston. 

1279.00 

Kgs. 

1279.00 

Kgs. 



<Ul C jpp-g' 


it, oo 

Kgs. 

12-00 

Kgs. 



. ;!) Ntofci 


12.00 

Kgs. 

12.00 

Kgs. 



dr) Magnesium 


18,00 

Kgs. 

18,00 

Kgs. 



(s*l i-Jicoa 


. 163.00 
Kgs. 

162.00 

Kgs. 

44 

Met/exhaust valves 

fslyes Steel b'-'s 

I MT 

1.4 MT 

1.4 MT 

43 

Shoddy/Woollen blankets and blanketing doth. 

Synthetic waste 

Synthetic Content of 

1 Kg. 

1.06 

Kgs. 

1.06 

Kgs. 

46. 

Aluminium conductors steel reinforced (ACSR) and Ail 
Aluminium conductors (AAC) 

(!) Aluminium, 

i Kg, 

1.01 

Kgs. 

1.01 

Kgs. 



(It) High carbon itee! wire rod 1 Kg, 

(ill) Zlec. S Kg, 

1.03 

Kgs. 

1.04 

Kgs. 

1.03 

Kgs. 

1.04 

Kgs. 

47. 

Particle Board and Fibre Board 

Wood 

1 Tonne 

2 Cu. 
mtrs. 

2 Cu. 
mtrs. 

<8. 

Furniture component In knocked down condition 

Wood 

1 Kg. 

1.45 

Kgs. 

1.43 

Kgs, 



[*W 

1—7T 1 J 

drci spn mm ; xrcmiK'JT 



313 


ANNEXURE V 

IO APPENDIX 19— Coma. 




(11 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

49 

Hand carved panels edJ handicrafts made of wood 

Wood 1 Kg. 


1.60 
Kgs. 

l.flO 

Kgs. 

JO. 

Plywood 

Wood 1 Cu. 

mtr. 


2.3 Cu. 
nrrs. 

2.3 
Cu. mtcs, 

01. 

Cwnmsrclil Plywood oa Emm ba»i» 

Wood 1 Kff. 


1.(56 

Kg®. 

'.,54 

u’ 

52. 

Frozen marine product* packed In while card board other White Card Board o'fcer than Ivcry 
than Ivory board. board. 

1 

(wi. of 
car sen 
inUjrJ 

S.W 

a. ico 

03. 

Frozen marine products packed In kraft paper. 

Kraft pspei 

1 

/art nf 

.1.100 

l.f.’MJ 




inn 

Kraft papei 

only)- 


54. 

Frozen Marine Products packed in polythene bags 1 

L.DPE 

1 

(Wt. of 
polythene 
bags only) 

1.05 

1.05 

33. 

Ivory articles. 

Unmanufactured Ivory 

1 

1.25 

1.13 

36. 

Pig Iron Products 

Pig Iron 

1 

1.10 

1.10 

31. 

Items manufactured out of GP Sheets. 

GP Sheets. 

1 

1.05 

1.03 

a». 

Items manufactured out of tin plate prime quality. 

Tin plate prime quality. 

1 

1.03 

1.03 

39. 

German Silvor scrap art wares. 

German Silver scrap. 

1 

1.01 

1.01 

60. 

Man-made textile cards Vee Belts. 

1. Rayon/Polyoster/Nylon (Textile) 1 

100 Kgs. 

10.00 

Kgs. 

10.00 

Kgs. 



2. Natural/Synthetic Rubber. 

100 Kgs. 

40.00 

Kgs. 

40.00 

Kgs. 



3. Carbon Black. 

100 Kgs, 

29.00 

Kgs. 

29.00 

Kgs. 



4. Sulphur. 

100 Kgs. 

1.00 

Kg. 

1.00 

Kg. 



3. Zinc Oxide. 

100 Kgs. 

2.20 

Kgs. 

2.20 

Kgs. 



6. Rubber chemicals such as anti- 
oxidents, accelerators, Peptizers/ 
retarders. 

100 Kgs. 

1.60 1.60 

Kgs. Kgs. 

(Import (Import ' 
of anti- of anti 

oxident oxident 

should should 

not not 

exceed exceed 

0.80 Kg.) 0.80 Kg.) 



7. Other miscellaneous chemicals 
such as Stearic acid, synthetic 
wax, resin, Plasticizer, magnesium 
oxide. 

100 Kgs. 

5.20 

Kgs. 

3.20 

Kgs. 



8. Jacketing fabric. 

100 Kgs. 

16.00 

Kgs. 

16 00 
Kgs. 

41. 

Gents Jackets. 

•♦•Fabric to be used in the garment. 

1 

2.25 Mtrs 
(out-slde) 
110 Cma 
(width) 

2.25 mtr* 
(outside) 
110 Cm* 
(width) 

#3. 

Ladles Jacket*. 

-do- 

1 

2.00 mtrs 
(outside) 
110 Cuts 
(width) 

2.00 mbs 
(outside) 
110 Cms 
(w/dtbi 


58 GI/85—21. 



314 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part — SecI. 1] 


ANNEXURE V TO APPENDIX \9-Contd. 



m <23 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) ( 6 ) 

63. Long Coat (Gents/Ladloa) 


1 

3.65 mtrs 3.65 mtra 
(outside) (outside) 

110 Cms llOCms 
(width) (width) 

64. Ladies Dresses. 

-do- 

1 

3.65 mtrs 3.65 mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 

110 tans 110 cms 
(width) (width). 

65, Gouts Shirts. 

•do- 

1 

2.10 mtrs 2.10 mtrs 
(outside) (outside 

90 Cms 90 Cms 
(width) (width) 

66 . Ladies Shirts. 

-do- 

1 

2.00 Mtrs 2.00 Mtrs 
(outsido) (outside! 

90 Cms 90 Cms 
(width) (width) 

67. Blouses 

•do- 

1 

1.35 Mtrs 1.35 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 

110 Cms 110 Cms 
(width) (width) 

68 . Sweat Shirts. 

-do- 

I 

1.35 Mtrs 1 35 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 

HO Cms 110 Cms 
(width) (width) 

69, Children’s Sweat Shirts 

•do- 

1 

0.90 Mtrs 0 90 Mtrs 
fou'-iide' (outside! 
itOOms <10 Cm* 
(width) (width) 

VO, Jean 

-do- 

1 

1.75 Mtrs 1.75 Mtn 
(outside) (outside) 
110 Cms 110 Cms 
(width) (width) 

Ji. Ladies Skirt 

-do 

1 

2.00 Mtra 2.00 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 

90 Cms 90 Cms 
(width) (width) 

72. Trousers 

-do 

1 

1.25 Mtrs 1.25 Mtrs 
(outsido) (outside) 
135 Cms 135 Cms 
(width) (width) 

T 3 . Inner Lining lor vests 

do- 

1 

0.75 Mtrs (i 75 Mtrs 
(outside) f outside) 
110 Cms 110 Cms 
(width) ( width) 

74 , Inner Lining for Jackati, 

-do- 

1 

1.25 Mtrs 1.25 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 
110 Cms llOCms 
(width) (width) 

73. Ladies Night Wears. 

■do 

1 

2.45 Mtrs 2.45 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 
110 Cms 110 Cms 
(width) (width) 

76 -do- 

do- 

1 

2.25 Mtrs 2.25 Mtrs 
(outside) (outside) 
150 Cms 150 Cms 
(width) (width) 

77. do- 

do- 

1 

1.25 Mtrs J.23 Mu 
(outside) (outside) 
250 Cms 250 Cms 
(width) (width) 



315 


[«mr i—sa- 1 ] 


ANNE/ . kL 5 hj AFFLMD1X 19 - Conti' 


1 - - — - 

— — ____ 




-t l 

tv 

1 4 

(5J 

m 

W. Lout, 

■4 n 


..35 ’•! *s 

— 

*U 


2 35 Mm 




'outside* 

(outside) 




f 10 Jnv 

130 Cms 




VI ft 

width' 

f»dur l,tn.» l«jt 



\|< t 


' 


! if) M*t(f 




nijOidc 

ouMde' 




v iii- 

W C-w 




t’d'b) 

i width' 

80. leather Shoe uppers 

1. Stamping foil 

per pair 

4 inch 

A inch 


2. .synthetic Baker (Ibermofles 

»» 

0.023 

0.023 




sq, m 

sq m 


3 Laminaied foam 

13 pairs 

4 sq in. 

4 sq. m 


•1 Artificial fur lining 

• 

1 sq m. 

4 sq m. 

81. Football No 5 

Fippei PIJ combine 1 footni! 

1 Vos 

0.17 

0.17 


mater . 


Lm ar M 

Lir ar M 

82. Football No 5 

PVr 

4 Nos 

1 sq ra 

1 sq m. 

83 Tea Bags 

Pillar oiper 

1 Kg (tea 
bags 

1 0< kg. 

1 05 kgs. 



enpplyi 




84. Acrylic Knitwears containing n-nun.y Ocrvuc fibre' 

Acrylic Fibres 

1 Kg. 

1.25 

Kg,. 

1.20 

Kgs. 

83. 100% Polyester (Carbonised) f„bnc man,fectursd out of 
'nun yarn. 

Polyester Fibre. 

1 Kg. 

1.547 

Kgs. 

1.143 

Kgs. 

86. Polymer 'Cotton blended fabrics manufactured o„t of 
spun urn (for 1 kg of polyester content erpoit d) 

Polyester Fi bre. 

1 Kg. 

1.561 

Kgs. 

1.211 

Kgs. 

87. Polyester/Cotton blended spun yarn (tor 1 kg ■ Polve,tv- 
content exported) 

” ’Hester Fibre 

1 Kc 

1 143 
Kgs 

1.127 

Kgs 

88. 100% Mulberry raw S.1K gannents 

Mulbern nw «<)k of any grade 
(other than dup'on yam). 

1 kg 

I 50 
Kgs. 

1 40 
Kgs. 

®ln As :c.v. tree ie<» • * wr’ > i *V • 

*aster* 1 rs l 'r ad aan.e, whuN o'iji * »,)i * 

• f nylon or oolyesh r et 

• i * 'C v ’! 
j f he .> 1 

15 

1 i rim i) 


’ t»h / 

"i i' )•< 

'•infte d\8Pvt k.&ifim i “tic r ! t i .'"u 

Imaue \s" should 1 • , v- 

"'IS r ' t S' js t t 

t" 

ft 

" i 1 

* * •Oanstwnntion for lining, later itcg wed urn, tt , is8« 5f ;.i 

Note 01 In the cite u Si No 7 i * i 

1 OOK? if fit !<- n m' i <! 

on ,;> 1 b"SIS. 

C 

S 1 

* sh 

11 be against 

Note >.Mn tt** r t ‘ c b< ih , f* i k v * 

** j"\ii I'Olfg ‘In i’ k hr 

' « e [ ; 

1 s -d till 

n c 

lumn 6 shill 


(jiMilJ) The minimum value addnion t squired shall be s us «• 


(0 Particle Board and Fibre Board 

(11) Furniture tempo s.nt& »r kro kid dywn con-nfso . 

(fri) W r aden hand „j; v-d pa i , snj m di.r 1 
•vi m (4) ' b t"’cr the itein 'raw w >ol’ rtC'pt-itrs lu „oh mn 3 i » v t > (U uhi 


140, 


< *»rs i w^y 


*: 



316 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . EXTRAORDINARY 


(Para 221 of Chapter Xi\) 
REGISTRATION OF EX PORI CONTRACT® 


A —Scope 

1. A contract is concluded after an offer ns m taa 

asu «x*pc . At „n _ 4 , r 3 V 

docamenUe) mus* set Aw ** oan-v n >< 
and acceptance es ve9 pp in «> u m > v ‘cals 


ii) 

Nantes and 
cuy“<, 

ndthes* 

K i the * n * i 

' 0 

Descnotu n 
Ye > < 

•i-'f< or i 

i nt of vov'ds coa- 

frt 

1 il-.C-: 

r ’r- ^ 1 

nc' 

“ «* «i the i,4!cda 

( •' 

n I.'n f 

s 

i }*- 

• V 

f 1 , 

t * 


Note i ' < 

1 '* 

k !^ , 

L-, b f ,i 


t 

3 

*a| , » 

r 

above fe> a o> > 

' *! 

, , -i 

• tl ' 


Note 12) t *r»w>c?b# ‘ ‘ ■ -f < „>nx rou.i 
all ’’»>* 5of\.v*m«d 5 ?f-nr-' »<» vf (j) fo fvA 

uiav -R*' v ?e f*r a fw » reps&atios 
r * i 1 * *r c <*Hit < 0 ^ roi 

*i' i . ii i ! ; t< c* 

♦h» H <* cf .r d t »*«eP vU K fake-* % the 
late -R he aiP'* v 9 or »h' of 

r*T(wK i« 


7, Unless cthe'ifi-.. provided ir tnis Appendix, (a) 
no contract, which provides for re-negotiation of 
price/value will he registered, md 0 >) contrafis al¬ 
ready reehtered wfv»rr the once is re-nepotinted will 
cease to h*v' *h- H •!•■ *** of r* 'it *’ v 


3. Contracts of the nature coverca o» (<>) and (b) 

of pan Q H) he*’ef«m r >der" tp ovE, tfc* •fciSc' 5 

lions t 7 b. a 5 * f ‘ ’** R to 

be finalised op fh» «* 'prfi ♦feh'' : -Xi con'ul- 
tations interpartes may be treated a« contracts eligi¬ 
ble fo r registration, if otherwi- - m ord-*" 

4 4 r*ip* ■* % * f* M i*i r t<** ■**^ , »<* 

fo v *-<?>■ ^>11 ^ Vc N t - i *v3‘t ~ f W fv* rf**"****? ■* 

If Off**^’* * * 5 " "S ** ** «> 

*? n'ssf” * n %* + 

contracted f t’ ’ 'hs«pr s " :ri;c> 

value is dnlv r.' n Rt rt e»! wi*E •> t ”nV -'•’•versed 
within 45 davs rtf sin-h a® change 


- - v,%e* nr sss^uiaict 


0 f ex St® 

•i.**' lujs f.v gtX-oS to 

».i* »** 


>o dsv tuco .auatxon clause relating to 
! * >• * ‘ s '«r . based on tked para- 

meteri spelt out in the contract itself and not 
sucj-ct to any negotiation after signing of the 
Jt£a ' . '»..tame?er should sot relate 
to any export incentives 

Notes . » • . v r . of clause tdj above 

-4 c i hie r/Eh effect from 

' + h ' \pinh-i 1979 

(2) ft is csd'iheu mat it a contract is regis¬ 
tered rn the bas*s of the c.i.f. value and 
there is a clause in the registered con- 
>‘^ k van ’Ot! r’ the vame of 
r ' v - ' Et«r of rise h freight 

" *■ ' " r E aad the resnltant in- 
- *' vdne of goods is actually 

“v'* u ^ fhiv condition of the above- 
rdr' i*u * protection as admissible 
, ' tK 5'-hem f Repis'ra'ion of 

"• 7 7 K ” ’C The change in 
‘h- i "airs* will h* intimai.-d to th@ 
'* as the change occurs, 
whect'-” it h no* possible to register 
!,H Grange wHh the 3ank .nicerned 
?**•’’* 4* dar* of *nch * c^s^fe, 

4 If additional quantities of goods of (he same 

; 4 " ■» *h ♦ -or 4 ’■acted for are Md, at * 

Jsi»s. v s«p»e bn vet the r?ittive transaction 

mav he rrghu^ a » fresh contract. However, If 
fh* haver etninerl the option to (a) buy specified 
* **tionM c? % tJtTf fl>> exercise such option by a 
giy . c? p„^ SM* V* ‘‘rant n (he (original) contract itself, 
ofho>- f-rpn beinr th* snme the benefit of protection 
? or -be 3dd ; (mnat «i!es so effected will be available 
- tr, th*- da** -f fertfrinat) contract 

* 'WYv* " '■o* tract retptems imdet the scheme 
fr * * ' * *” ’ '•-tnhtinv variation in 

ft c i s1? « n K ? . »r>*«cHo*, of benefit will be avail¬ 

able to «m>pli>« made after the expiry of the original 
tf-mMed in the contract also 
v» rJ . w vtn f , ,* -»• Irr, i, covered by the 

' <r,rt 5 * t*’’'’* change In the terms o* 



[wt i—*sr? 1 ] 


>5K3 Sfi WT3 . IRtTSTlXOI 


317 


.m l iit- * t'f-ti 


she contract i©2tisiw„ot., lm. eAie&iiOd a, i ,mc.y 
penod m such mu* '«eti *• be ?ejp*seres *t«th si-- 


(2) Where a touuovt iej(is>ie tvs tmuet tut* pouc; 
does not contain any uauie noout variation in delivery 
schedule, the protection oi oenelits wui be available 
to the supplies made after the expiry of the aehvety 
schedule also, provided such extension in delivery 
schedule has been mutually agreed to between the 
buyer and the seller, and there is no change in other 
terms of the contract. The extension in delivery 
schedule in such cases should be registered with the 
bank within 60 days from the date of expiry of the 
delivery schedule originally stipulated in the contract. 
Where the extension in delivery schedule is not settled 
between the buyer and the seller and is not conse¬ 
quently registered with the bank within the stipulated 
period of 60 days, the protection of benefits against 
exports made during such 2 Xiended delivery period 
will require prior approval of the --oief Controller 
of Imports ft Exports, New Delbs 

(3) The provisions i® this paiagraph will be subject 
to conditions prescribed in par# 8(1) below 

7. Against contracts registered tender the scheme, 

a Registered Exporter will be eligible *o claim import 
replenishment at the same rah, and for the same items 
as were premissible on the da,® o f contract, mkK the 
relevant import policy fo, Reggie*tv Exporter*. K 
the rate/items of replcaishmcM, «, policy 

in force on the dat* of eoatrsM {.lffetev.* from 
those on the date of export Sr* /■ * claim dn benefit 
as on either date only ✓ u ’ate and Item* 

must relate to the same date. It is clarified that pro¬ 
tection against regime re 1 cot‘ f .r * *s *»>■ with r.gai.i 
so the rate of import rec§ealsiii«s«. exc u 

import allowed as replenishment m column 4 sad 3 
against the relevant export product ia Appendix 11 
No such protection is available for import of aay other 
items which may be allowed to be imported against 
REP licence# by way of flexibility or otherwise. It 
is further clarified that these provision* will not apply 
to the import licence# having specific export obligations 
such as Advance licences, Special imprest liceEce?, 
Import Export Pass book and Imprest licences. 

8 . (1) The benefit# of registration tmdsr the 
scheme will be available for the execution of the 
concerned contract only up to the time-limits set 
down below, « from the date e* coatrac* * 

(a) Turnkey Projects a* defined 
In paragraph 212 §i the 
Import-Export Policy, 1985—88 
and exports of Capital Goode 
of the nature specified f* 

Ansexurs 1 heret * Lpio the cam- 

!* the 

«*( sat *?'’■* 

( b ) Exports of sngtseensj 

goods other than those 
covered by (a) above T 7pio tine© 


.. t ‘Aipi.itk Or goocife nher iL&n 
thu.< s« • ! c« d o-.- i ,) and (b/ 

» opto *sey®«r. 

U> ihe auovc isaatt wru appjy only to contracts 
entered into on or alter 1 5 1979 rad registered in 
accordance witii the prescribed pi/tredure, 

(3) In the case oi contracts entered into during the 
period from 1st April, 1977 to 31st March, 1978, or 
earlier and registered, m accordance with the prescribed 
procedure, the benefit of registration under the scheme 
would be available only in those cases where the 
exports m execution of the «- ! evant contracts are made 
during the delivery schedui- as per tne contract or 
upto 30th Jujiv. i.983, wnichever date is earlier, 
provided such benefits are otherwise admissible in 
terms of the import policy. The extended period 
from 1st January, 1982 to 30th June, 1983, will be 
available only m respect of those subsisting contracts 
covered by this sub-para which have already been 
partly executed before loai December, 1981 and have 
continued to be executed dm mg the year 1982. The 
extended period from 1st January, 1983 to 30th June, 
1983 shall be subject *o i-e further condition that it 
will apply only to most, contracts for which an 
irrevocable Letter oi Credit nxs been opened before 
1st January* 19S3 if *..reign buytr in favour of 
The Median Exporter b cs~c.> where ao Irrevocable 
Letter of Credit 1m wwt establishes by the foreign 
buyer bolo t 1st lasuary, *983 buf the Indian exporter 
can c» »i, „ * t v u i ctocamvntary evidence 
that therv ju8s been « s.rtjs* contract over the 
period, s prioi Mu^rn flora tit Chief Controller 
of Import- It Exports, New DeJv shsll be r/ecessary 
before Hv protectsm benefits available to such 
t 'ttgigteic« c<mtr*vii. coalo be considered. Exports 
made t» pursuance ot me contiacts covered under this 
sub-para, after 30th June, 1983, shall cease to qualify 
for protection available to registered contracts. 

ii —Fff OCjSDW v 

9. (I) Every contract to o>: eligible to tn@ benefits 
-i ue schememust be got * .gistered with an authori¬ 
s'd dealer m ir-irign .xckfsge (Scheduled Bank) 
wifiia 45 cay* %>tn th* Jet' of contract, i.< the date 
cn which fb~ »Ser ir ivr* t>ted bv the coHcluding 
r« T ri 

i .5 Hawcaer, M a. >»h\ vtte, it i* noticed by 
bank rx 'be j ' fsothonty that the contract 
was registv-vd inadTertcjady, this raav result in the 

registration being cancelled, after giving an opportu¬ 
nism to tb* f<e?d»tered Exrw r concerned. 

■ i . > •• dioiiid produce 

i*store the i.ii-k icgistedna »h* contract, the original 
> , im . , A,*-.* ilKtcoi, and as 

abstract of the contract in the proforma appearing In 
the Annexurc il hereto l>.» Leak will scrutinise the 
7ceuments with reference to 'he scope of the scheme, 
t» contained In the above para*, and then allocate 



318 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 20 Coma. 


a proper serial number thereto and make the following 

radoiscment on both the original and the copies 

This contract has been registered with us gm 

entered in our records unaer Registration No.. 

date . . .The date oi ccntraci has been verifier, 

I*> he, 

signature 

and 

date 

r along with otnclal designation o> uie bignaior> > 

Stamp of the bank,” 

11. ine dank will return the original Contract w»Ut 
o*« w copy the Registered cA/viie, .mu rorwaru oto 
copy nearing the endoiseniciu ol .egistraduii b> it, 
duwetiv to the licensing author*./ vuunn whose juris- 
diCuUti die Rc^istc., r/Xpui.o. Is situated, An,n.u JC 

oays of the date of registration. One top$ oi th. 
contract will be retamed by tat bane for in> owe 
purposes. The Registered Exporter may arso 
separately send to the licensing authority concerned 
within 30 days oi .he date of registration of die 
contract, one copy of the same contract beaimg 
endorsement of registration made the eon oy the Dank. 
«.ne heeiistag auuiuua will eons-Ju .ut case on the 
basis of any of the two mumauons, whether from the 
oaok oi the Registered Expend having been t*ceived 
within the stipulated period of 30 iap 

12. in ine event o* cancellation u ta» umtxoc- 
Ihe Regtateicd Expoitc* she*. .nunute >u du bank 
Lirouga whom the original regie Mtior. mid been 
made about the fact of men canc-ilaao ±. within 13 
nays thereof. The Bank will, in turn immediately 
send intimation to that effect to the licensing autho¬ 
rity concerned. 

13 Ine scheme extends to good# winch may no 
se covered or classified currenlv under the lrnpo 
Policy ter Registcied Exports The v&porter ma. 
seek their proper c'assificatioi! ?, k>i; <actn to le 
conclusion of the idaov? tx/r .<» 

14. lo chum the ocneiu-, of registration, .‘he 
Registered Exporter must ensure that if, Bsr.kvi 
attested invoice, required to S> produce.' aider >; 
connected import pohev and procedures. hea>* tin 

(further) attestation of the bank to the effect that the 
exports effected under the *<iH ievo*'^ have be-n made 
against such registered contract, quoting the relevant 
bank Registration No. and date thereof clearly. The 
provisions made in para 216 of this policy pertaining 
to export# through third partv w«J r a!s< apply ; G the#* 
axes, provided ihe idevaat invoice bear# the a neats, 
tion of the bank as laid down. 

C—SPECIAL PROVISIONS 

15. In the case of (a) public tender contract* with 
foreign Governments or foreign public utilities 
(b) contracts pertaining to IBRD/IDA aided project? 


u mdia, j,nd fc) supplies aiaoe in India to project* 
tmanced under multilateral or bilaterial external 
^*vjsfa,ncc, the bcEeCts oi legottianon will bp avaiiabte 
' on the date oi submission of the tender, provided 

* e"c is ho price van ration. Where there is a pne# 
.a nation at the time of acceptance of the tender, 
. a. i .aefiu, cf regirt ation will he available as cst the 
'ate of acceptance. 

16. If, after the jtubnnssion of the tender ma 
1 . ^re .it. acceptance, the terms are further negotiated 
■merpanes and the (Anal) contract is based on the 

tti _aa. uj tnc iudiaa seller m the course of such 
'. goUaauii' the Reprsfi red ExpoiR. vof» still be 

entitled to the benefit of the scheme as on the date of 
the tender if there is no price increase; if there is a 
5 1 >■ k Uwieaac, tuv. da e oi die ofie* shall be taken 
the cruudi iaic, yi /idea a certified copy of the 
toned ofivr i* i xRv.i .is with the in.casing 

../’’nut' concerned. 

17. if m Indian Exporter enters into a contract 
sith d Foicy r Government m foreign public utility 
for wnicb then, was no tender, the date of the parti¬ 
cular offer made and ultimately accepted by the 
foreign buyer will be the crucial date under the scheme, 
rt *' r us- _ ,< ee-iiaea W'j of i >e offer should b© 
■'dgoi . ok- Aid’ *ff* licensiHg sathouty 
conceraec 

- 16. in 4 v^*w unaer par* lo where s. revised offci 

i‘ tno.lvwl, -f tn a case under par* 17 where the offer 
« oiaJt. witiiCUi a tendpi in the first mssanee kick, 

' »erLficd of the offer «o be lodged with the 
< i ustnfc aUtuOnuj concerned shall be senh ia doubi© 
*eajcd covv, under Regd Pi ; AD, within 7 dayr 
*rom if,c gvR cX i!n *ubuiswr'n i>« the overseas party. 
Am chjxige from ‘he offer so made on a second «r 
<iAs-e r H t»t <ivUhoui'' , c he lodged iiVewfrv. 

‘ ,*f‘ -/s' *cqn m-stc will o* | c..? fr* ffi c isdisa pf>*t} 

•-i p i s ‘Cu w * a "i n h tf Registration No. 

•i Gj if MR offftr %) jodgcii with the Ik#ems* 
-uit., , ...G to ffiit’.i wOR-iac with the overseas 

buyet* the Registered Ext- should regisier 
.ns ct-audc? w.th *£ audio*/eel dealer in iom&is 
ixchange m per p«r» v above. Independently, be 
mouid add-csr, rise uecusnoi, authority, coaceraea, 
r..*,ni rtuatios the earU s tcgi*tration m&ae by 
- 5 .*1 I. * uffe t along with the reievaat Rejpstratios 
"n j .nd .end ,t certified '.x>p ■ of the (final) contra^ 
-h- h 5 oot>c by Rs?t J Pmt A.D vithr- 
■ i/’ r £■<•>'mt.« . t *’»•* s, n trsci H the f-»'i- - 

• *0 dealer is foreigr s, reh*sfe 

(fit I he hcenstng vumo nvt coacemed, xfssd np*. 

the iifovence of the imthortf-'d repiesentafive < t the 
Reen*ered Exp -rtsr, ihc 3>tlf> coataiaigg the offer 
•' •■ncHSu? tad •on" vt d xltf the term* o’ the 
•xstrac* If tb-ts. ;* u nlr # Uatioa between ihr 
fftr spd tH -at w * the qngHtnm of J.npptfe - fwirg 
mattered, the o* f 8 ** /%r wfl n- *» %•« 

■oidd As*# Ht* {?»*•= * mnAc 



[wr I—1] 


*TTOl *T TTm : TOTTtfm 


319 


APPENDIX 20— Contd. 


20. (0 The above provision* will also be applicable 
jo aa Indian Exporter who is a subcontractor 
to a foreign party, whose tender has been accepted 
by the overseas buyer, provided that (a) the name of 
no lAKiiuu Exporivr appeal* in the tnder anu tho 
jifUxi cunuaei, and cb) the description, quunuty and 
'.muc oi goods/ seme e b to be provided by the Indian 
iiJnjOiiei are given in die said document(s). Ihe 
ouicn., ,i uit aeneme wtU be given to toe succcssim 
Indian Exporter in such cases from the date on which 
he made the relevant oiler to the foreign contractor. 
The procedure laid down in Para 18 above about the 
lodging of offers with the licensing authority concerned 
win apply truuuiis nuuuiuub to cUCti cases. These 
provisions will also apply to “deemed exports 
covered by para 190 (b), (c), (f) and (j) or this 
policy. 

yii) 11 toe Indian exporter, in a ease of the above 
nature, has difficulty in securing a copy of the main 
contract, he may register, in the prescribed manner, 
with die authorised dealer in foreign exchange, the 
docuutcni relaxing to his own *ub-contraci with the 
main contractor, together with a certificate from the 
mam ■ootractur to the effect mat the name of the 
sub-contractor appeared in the tender as well as the 
main contract. 

(iii) U in a case of the uatuie referred to in 
or (ii) above, the name of the Indian sub-contractor 


does not appear in the tender and/or the (main) con¬ 
tract. the benefit of this scheme will still be available 
to the sub-contractor, provided (i) the offer made by 
him to and the sub-contract entered into with the 
main contractor are sent to the licensing authority 
concerned and (ii) the Indian sub-contractor pro¬ 
duces evidence acceptable to th* licensing authority 
concerned about his role in the main contract. 


21. The facility of registration of contracts will 
also be available to supplies to ONGC, GAIL and 
Oil India Limited covered by para 190 (i) of the 
policy. Such supplies even made by an Indian sub¬ 
contractor to a foreign party or Indian party, which 
has entered into a contract with ONGC, GAIL or Oil 
India Limited for their off-shore/on-shore exploration, 
drilling and production operations will also be eligible 
for the said facility provided (a) the name of the 
sub-contractor appears in the main contract, and 
(b) the description, quantity and value of goods to 
be provided by the sub-contractor are given in the 
main contract. 

22. The facility of registration of contracts will 
also be available to those who export their products 
through STC, MMTC, Projects and Equipments 
Corporation or any other public sector agcacy or 
back-to-back arrangements. 



320 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I— Sec. 1] 

A.NNBXUKH I Ttt APPENDIX 20 

List of export product* classified as ‘Capital Goods’ for parpoaes of protection trader the scheme for regfatratlM 

•f export contracts 

S. Export Product Cl. No. 


Policy 

(ITC 

Policy 

for 

Registered 

Exporters) 


1 2 

3 

1, Sugar null machinery 

A.64 

2. Textile mill machinery 

A.64 

3. Jute mill machinery 

A.64 

4. Oil mill machinery .... 

A.64 

5. Tea machinery .... 

A 64 

6 Paper and Pulp machinery 

A.64 

T, Wood working machinery 

A.64 

*, Fertilizer plant and equipment . 

A.64 

$>. Water and sewage treatment plant* 

A.64 

10. Cement Plants .... 

A.64 

11. Food processing plant* 

A.M 

12 Power generation equipment including 
turbines, alternators, generators 

A.22 

13. Power medium and distribution trans¬ 
formers . . 

A,22 

14. High tension switch gear and control 
gear . . 

A.?? 

Iff. Complete high tension and extra high 
tension and power transmission line* 

A 7(H) 

iff. Power line carrie. communication 
equipment 

4 35 

if. Sonip'cte oquipmem roe clesirte rob- 
station 

AA..i 

iff. Machine tools including metal rutting; 
metal pruning and tool room machine 
-oo)/ 

A 4M? 

9. Industrial iuraaees including elwnri* 
funmeet 

4,*ff 

ff®. Asbestos earnout plant bird ukuaniwa. 

A.tW 

©hemieai sad catisei u.«c.. • 

nery . 

A.64 


1 2 3 


22. Mining machinery A.64 

23. Rubber machinery .... A.64 

24. Complete dairy equipment . A.64 

25. Solvent extraction Plants . . AM 

26. Industrial boilers and boilers foi 

power generation . . . A 64 

27. Industrial switch boards and control 

panels ...... A.22 

28. Electric motors above 20 HP . A.22 


29. Telecommunication equipment Inclu¬ 
ding telephone and telegraph exchanges A.3® 

30. Diesel Engines above 20 H.P. . . A.$d 

31. Power station structures, hydraulic 
structures like pen stocks; gates and 
gearings; sub-station and railway 
electrification structures and techno¬ 
logical structures .... A.Tril) 

32. industrial refrigeration and airoondf- 

tloning equipment . . A.ii 

33. Industrial fume extraction, dust col¬ 
lection, humidification and vontila- 

tlon equipment A.31 

34. Mechanical handling equipment A.64 

35. Heavy dnty pomps and compressors . A.64 

36. Railway wagons and coaches . . A.75 

37. Ships, boats and launches, steamers 

and trawlers . ... A.78 A 

A.Tf 

38 Crawler tractors, shovels, excavators, 
loaders, dumpers and other earth- 
moving equipment .... AM 

(Delate J; 

H PiiJ foundation machinery . A.64 

49. Road and construction machinery 
including road rollers, oontinuoas 
hatch plants, stone crushers, concrete 
laluert. end vibrators , , , aM 

(Delete*# < 

41 i,i) Power cubic* (wit* copper us- 

doctor) . . * a 

( u) Power cables (with albtaioraiB 

spndcufnj) A.M 

4k tiser.fr * 4t 

4$. cycles A. T (I) 







{■rtt i—qrr 1] 


»insr <fu <ui4« : trarnKW 


321 


ANNEXURE II TO APPENDIX 20 

FroToraa of abstract of the Export Contract 


1. N*mc of the Registered tb-poii,; 

2. Registration No. &date of issue by the Export Proniolion Authority/ rpor> 

Promotion Council/Commodity Board . 


Overseas buyei’s name Description of pro- Value of prmluet(s) Uouiils of delivery Terms of payment Date of contract 

with whom contract ductfs) to be exported. to be exported. period 

hai been executed. 


I 2 3 o 5 0 


Sjgnatuie and stamp of the Constituted 
Attorney of the Registered Exporter. 









322 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 21 
(Chapter XIV) 

DUTY FREE IMPORTS AGAINST REP LICENCES 


1. There is a scheme to provide duty free imports of 
raw material against REP licences issued on the 
exports of specified products. In this connection, 
a copy of the Department of Revenue Customs 
Notification dated 12th April, 1985 is reproduced 
in Annexure I to this Appendix. 

2. The export products and against each of them the 
itenjs allowed to be imported, the quantity of each 
item allowed and the import replenishment per¬ 
centage ui terms of value, are indicated m Annexuie 
II to this Appendix. 

3. The scheme will apply to REP licences issued on 
exports made from 12-4-1985 against which the 
exporter has neither claimed the benefit of duty 
exemption as per Appendix 19 nor duty-drawback. 

4. At the tune of export, the exporter shall make a 
declaration in the relevant shipping bill that he 
would claim REP licence against the exports 
covered by the shipping bill under Duty Free 
Scheme as per Appendix 21 of Import-Export 
Policy, 1985—88, and shall not claim duty draw¬ 
back on the same exports. A copy of customs 
authenticated shipping bill for export promotion 
shall be furnished with the import application for 
REP licences alongwith other prescribed documents. 
The Shipping Bill shall have the full signature and 
name of the Customs Officer with his designation 
and date (including month and year). In respect 
of exports made by post parcel, the exporter shall 
produce customs attested invoice or any other 
export document including drawback application, 
wherever available, duly attersted by customs and 
containing the aforesaid declaration of the exporter 
for the purpose of claiming duty free REP licence 
under this scheme. 

5. REP licences issued under the scheme will be mar¬ 
ked “Duty Free Import Replenishment”. Such 
licences will be transferable like other REP licences. 


They will also not be subject to “Actual User” 
condition, 

6 . Application* for grant of REP licences under this 
scheme should be made to the licensing authorities 
concerned. At the top of the application, the 
words “Application under Duty Free Import 
Scheme” should be written, 

7. Import licences issued under the scheme will be 
subject m both «aiue and quantity as limiting 
factors 

8 . Where item(s) of import permitted in Annexure II 
of this Appendix is/are permissible against the 
relevant export product in columns 4 and 5 of 
Appendix 17, the unutilised value, if any, avail¬ 
able in the “duty-free” REP licence, after making 
duty free imports, may be utilised by importing 
items permissible under columns 4 and 5 against the 
relevant export product on payment of customs 
duty. For this purpose, the licensing authority 
will endorse the “duty-free” REP licence as 
under:— 

“WithuMti overall value, the licence will also 
be valid for import of items permitted in 
columns 4 and 5 against SI. No.....in 
Appendix 17 of Import-Export Policy, 
1985—88 on payment of customs duty”, 

$. Where items of import permitted in Annexure II 
of this Appendix are other than those in Appen¬ 
dices 2, 3 and 5 the exporter will be eligible 
to the normal REP entitlement as appearing fo 
Appendix 17 in addition to the “duty-free” MP 
entitlement. Therefore, *hil® issuing duly-fre® 
REP licence, the licensing authority will *E*o 
include therein, the items and the values as 
admissible under Appendix 17, with tot condi¬ 
tions that (a) the import of these Items will U 
on payment of customs duty and (b) the valw 
limits given in the licence for duty-paid and duty¬ 
free materials will not be interchaageable with 
each other. 




*TTT3r $T '(.WMd : imiuKur 


323 


AHNEXURE 1 TO APPENDIX 21 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE 
(INDIRECT TAXES DIVISION) 

New Delhi, the 12th April, !<>S5 
CUSTOMS NOTIFICATION 

G.S.R. No. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-secuon (1 j of Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 (52 of 1962), 
the Central Government, being satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts the materials specified in the 
Schedule annexed hereto when imported into India from the whole of the duty of Customs leviable thereon which is specified in the First 
Schedule to the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 (5i of 1975) and the whole of the additional duty leviable thereon under section 3 of the said 
Act i 


Provided that the importer shall produce an import replenishment licence issued in terms of Appendix 21 of the Import Policy for 
the period commencing on the 1st day of April, 1985 and ending with the 31st day of March, 1986 under the Imports (Control) Order 
1955, containing the following endorsements by the authority issuing such licence, namely 

(a) Duty Free imports against Replenishment Licence as per Appendix 21 of the Import Policy April 1985— March 1988; 

( b ) The quantity and the value of the said materials, allowed to be imported under the said licence; ana 

(c) The description of the exported product against which import of the said materials would be allowed under the said licence. 

THE SCHEDULE 

(1) Stainless Steel Sheets or Strips or Colls (Non-Magnctic). 

(2) Stainless Steel Sheets or Strips or bars and rod*, 

(3) Hoi Rolled Otbon Steel Sheets or Snips or Plates or Coils (other than high Carbon Steel) 

(4) Zinc. 

(SI Spun Silk yarn, 

(8) Noil Yara (Silk). 

(7} Baa woe) or wool tops or wcol’ce j>irs 

(8) Raw woo! 48* and beltsw. 

(9) Brass Scrap. 

(10) Plastic Raw Material (other than P.V C.) 

(U) High Carbon Steel/Alloy Steel. 

(12) Mulberry raw silk of all grades (other eh in duptou yarn). 

(11! Mulberry dupfon yarn. 

(14) Synthetic Wart*. 

(JSj Seamless Steel Bars/BiUeti/Bloom* 

(16) Aluminium Ingots/Alumlnlum Rods. 

(17) High Carbon Steel Wire Rodi. 




324 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


ANNBXURE II TO APPENDIX 21 

SditiM of Doty Froo Import against Import Roploolsbinakt Licences 


Itom Description of the export product Relevant Description of items allowed foi Quantity of Import Quantity of 
No. SL No. of Import duty froo items allow- Replenish- relevant 

App. If ed for ment export 

import duty percentage product 
free 


1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

1. Galvanised Steel Pipes/Tubes. 

A.ffl) 

(/) Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Sheets/ 
Strips/Coils (other than High 
Carbon Steel). 

(//) Zinc. 

0.9765 Kg."! 70% 

0.07 Kg. j 

1 Kg. 

2. Steel Pipes and Tubes (Black) includ¬ 
ing precision Tubes. 

A.f(i) 

Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Sheets/ 
Strips/Colls (other than High 
Carbon Steel). 

1.05 Kgs. 

70% 

lKg. 

3. Seamless Steel Tubes. 

A.7(l) 

Seamless Bar*/Billets/Blooms. 

1.05 Kgs. 

70% 

1 Kg. 

4. Galvanised Wire and Sheets (whothor 
corrugated or not). 

A.ffli) 

Zinc. 

0,04 Kg. 

10% 

1 Kg. 

5. Brass fittings. 

A.IT 

Bran scrap. 

1.01 Kgs. 

30% 

lKg. 

6. Aluminium Conductors Steel Reinfor¬ 
ced (ACSR). 

A.24(l) 

(/) Aluminium Ingots/Alumlnium 
rods. 

(//) High Carbon Steal Wire Rods. 

Oil) Zinc. 

1.01 Kgs.' 

1.01 Kgs. j 
1.04 Kgs.J 

50% 

1 Kg. 

T. All Aluminium Conductors (AAC) 

A. 24(0 

Aluminium Ingots/Aluminium rods. 1.01 Kgs. 

60% 

1 Kg. 

8. (a) Steel files (of high carbon steel). 

(b) Stool files (of alloy steel). 

A.310II) 

A.51(iii) 

High Carbon Stsal. 

Alloy steel. 

1.15 Kgs. 
1.15 Kgs. 

K 

1 Kg. 

1 Kg. 

9. Articles made of plastics (other than 
P.V.C.). 

C.11.3 

Relevant plastic raw material (other 
than P.V.C.). 

1.05 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

10. Brass artware. 

H.l 

Bran scrap. 

1.02 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

11, Shoddy woollen Blankets/Blanketing 
oloth. 

E.4 

(/) Synthetic Ring Spun Yam Hard ' 
Waste. 

(if) Blended Ring Spun Yam Hard 
Waste. 

(iff) Entangled Filament Tows 

(Drawn) containing tows of 
length of sot more than two 

mstsn. 

- 1.06 Kgs. 30% 1 Kg. 

12. Hand Knotted/Woven woollen Carpet* 

r.j(ii) 

Raw wool of 3d microns and above 0.30 Kg. 

30 Y 

1 Kg, 

13. (/) Natural Silk fabrlcs/madoups/gar- 
ments containing 100% Natural Sufc 
by weight. 

K.T(0 

•pen Silk/Noll/Mnlberry raw silk/ 1.30 Kgi. 

Du pi on (depending upon the item 
lotmlly wad). 

30% 

1 Kg, 

(U) Natural Silk fabrics/madeops/gai- 
ments including embriodered con¬ 
taining less than 100% but not Issi 
than 50% natural silk by weight. 

B.f(H) 

■pea Bflk/Noli/Mulbsrry raw silk/ 
Duplon. (depending upon/the Item 

actually used). 

0.9 Kg. 

20% 

1 Kg. 

(/If) Natural Silk fabrics/madeeps/*r- 
ments Including embroidered con¬ 
taining less than 50% but not Ism 
than 20% natural silk by weight. 

K T(U0 

Spun lilk/NoU/Mulbeny raw silk/ 
Duplon. (depending upon tb* 
Item sotually ussd). 

0.45 Kg. 

10% 

1 Kg. 




[UFTI—W* l] 


rrror tt tisnu; wrt<3TT®r 


325 


ANNEXURB II TO APPENDIX 21—Co#c«. 


1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

1 

14. Silk Carpets. 

K.8fl) 

Spun' Silk Van. 

1.13 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

13. (/) Nylon filament yarn fabrics, cm- K-ll or 
broidered fabrics, quilted fabrics K-13 or 
quilled blankets, hosiery, knit wear and 0-6 
made-up articles. 

Nylon Filament Yarn actually 
used in the export product. 

1.10 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

(II) Polyester filament yam fabrics, em¬ 
broidered fabrics, hosiery, knit 
wear and made-up articles. 

-do- 

Polyester Filament Yarn actually 
used in the export product 

1.10 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

(HI) Fabrics, embroidered fabrics, hosiery, 
knit wear and made-up articles of 
mixed yam of Nylon filament and 
Polyester filament. 

-do- 

Nylon/Polyester Filament Yam 
actually used In the export pro¬ 
duct. 

1.10 Kgs. 

40% 

1 Kg. 

16. Articles of Hosiery/knitwear made wholly 
of wool. 

0.2 

(/) Raw Wool or 
(//) Woollen yam. 

1.25 Kgs. 

1.10 Kgs. 

52 

1 Kg. 
1 Kg. 

17. Stainless Steel Utensils, sinks and 
hospital ware (Non-Magnetlc). 

Q.l 

Stainless Steel Strips/Sheets/Colls 1.15 Kgs. 
(Non-Magnetic). 

50% 

1 Kg. 

18. Stainless Steel Forks, 

Q.l 

Stainless Steel Sheets/Strips/Bars 
and rods. 

1.60 Kgs. 

50% 

1 Kg. 

19. Stainless Steel Spoons/Knives. 

Q.l 

Stainless Steel Sheets/Strips/Bars 
and rods. 

1.30 Kgs. 

50% 

1 Kg. 


NOTES i (1) In the case of export products covered by SI. Nos. 9 and 11 to 19 (both Inclusive) above, the quantities of items allo¬ 
wed to be imported duty free in column(s) Vvill be calculated on the actual 1 Kg. net content of the materials in column 
4 above,used In the manufacture of the exported products. For this purpose, preshipment inspection ceritficate/test 
certificate from the statutory agencies concerned will have to be produced in addition to the prescribed documents. 

(2) Wherever the item'raw wool’.appears In;column 4, it wiU'cover;‘scoured wool’ also. 




326 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 22 
(Chapter XVHI) 

ANNEXURE I 

SCHEME FOR EXPOST OF 60M> J1WMTJJIRY AGAINST GOLD 6UPPLIEE* BY THE FOREIGN 

BUYER 


Export of gold ornaments and articles (other than 
coins) as detoed in the Gold (Control) Act, 1968, 
will alone be allowed under the Scheme. Such 
ornaments and articles when studded will also be 
permitted to be exported under the Scheme. The 
items for export should be made of gold of purity 
not less than 0.5833 fineness which corresponds to 
14 carats. 

2. The Scheme will apply to the export orders 
received by Handicrafts and Hand looms Export 
Corporation, New Delhi either directly or through 
their eligible associates. 

3. The following categories of persons holding 
valid dealer’s licence under the Gold Control law will 
only be allowed to operate as eligible associates of 
Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation for 
the purpose of the scheme : — 

(''i Registered Export- in ring Rr**dn- 
iiaa Certificates ir.ues to there by the 
and Jewellery Ft'X* Prcmc* 4 5 or CV’r-ih 

(i/) Co-operative Societies of certified gold¬ 
smiths; and , 

(%*} Corporations tinned or con? c>< e4 bv i • 
meat holding Export House Ct ri ficat ; 
issued bv the Chief Coalrolk,- of 
md FxoorK N»w Delhi 

4 The Gem and Jewellery Expo-! Fret la 
Council will keep the particulars of the idealificatici 
marks, if any. of its Registered Exporters under the 
Hall Marking Scheme of the Indian Standards 
Institution. But it would nor be obligatory on Hr 
part of its Registered Exporters to follow the Hall 
Marking Scheme until farther owfare 

Scops ©i tie IkSew* 

5 The Scheme DToivde* tog export of goM orna¬ 
ments and articles against gold supplied, face of charge 
fa advance by the foreign buyer concerned *n tfr* 

extent of the quantity of the gold used in the 
manufacture of the items to be exported. Export 
orders should, therefore, provide for the supply of 
gold, free of charge by the foreign buyer to the extent 
required. Such gold should bo received, in any case, 
before the export of ornaments or articles is allowed 
Export c tdtrr. short" provide for -‘nymenl a* mir 
factoring and other costs involved, either by means 


i). •& in .vocable kiter o' credit, or payment on cash- 
<: -vLli /cry basis, or advance payments in foreign 
' tdiige received through (he authorised dealer 
(Li a ok;. The documents should be negotiated through 
hd autoorised dealer in foreign exchange only. The 
(/port order should relate to the single buyer overseas 
'•(Chough it may coves more than one item of export. 

6. A minimum value added of 15% over the value 
of the gold content will bei insisted upon in respect of 
(vpoxfa made under the scheme. The value added 
t m he calculated with reference to the value of the 
fo]j mtent in the items expoiteo, at the price notified 
1 * Handicrafts and Handlooms Export Corporation, 
«». <- Delhi a-j the price of gold, at (Tie beginning of 
if.-, fonto For example, if the f.o.b. value of tha 
, (. b exported is Rs, 100 the value of the grid 

calculated at the notified price should be Rs. 87 
: i he c. so of stud led items, the total vaiur 
he H'kl and other item*, namely, stones, gems, 

. , / sal o’Ls.” precious petal* if any, used in the 
manufacture of the items exported, should be Rs 87 

t jl/'., ko\(! <>.aamtsi.v at tl (other 

*//. .; n'odcc) o-sk T.(kt the .chine- will not U 
■ for a. , io mcctitlv Err.its ot goM 

\i rv.e'u;, tod art-vtet. when siUjJict., w&ui under the 
.'heme wifi however, be eligible for import replenish- 
T<*rr subject to the condition that the net value added 
will not be less than 15% as provided in para 6 above 
for the purpose o f determining F.O.B. value, the 
mine o? gold and other precious metals as shown 1st 
r'j’ 'listen 1 * nvoice, shill be excluded 

Tor ort repIcoishmeuT of the same items and to the 
" uae extent m allowed against SI No P.4 in Appendix 
will be admissible. 


8. The Handicrafts and Handlooms Export 

Horpcrstion of India f4td.. New Delhi (HHEC) has 
nominated as the authoritv to operate the scheme. 
The export orders against which exports will be 
-Towed will be those as are received directly by this 
aiwncv or through their eligible associate*. 

Import o< gold under the Scheme 

9(1). The imported gold shall be cleared through 
the customs authorities only by the said nominated 
acency i e , HHFC either on their own behalf where 
the export order* are* rccdre4 by them or on behalf 
of their eligible associates, where the export orders 





[wpr i—srs i] 


UTCT Sft TT5PT5 : Wrai'CH 


327 


ANNEXURE 1 TO APPENDIX 22—com*. 


iuive been received through such associates. In th« 
latter case, the exporter shall have to authorise the 
HHEC to act as its agent to file the Bill of Entry and 
clear the imported gold from the Customs as also to 
file the relevant Shipping Bill for making the corres¬ 
ponding exports through the customs. 

(2) The HHEC will also obtain a general permission 
from the Gold Control Administration for receiving the 
gold on import into India 

10. Import of pure gold under the scheme will be 
allowed by the Customs authorities to the designated 
agency i.e, HHEC on the basis of an exemption order, 
whether general or specific, issued by the Reserve 
Bank ot India, for the purpose of the scheme In 
respect ot each consignment of imported gold, 
HHEC will execute before clearance a bond with the 
customs authorities undertaking to export, gold equi¬ 
valent to the entire quantity of the imported gold as 
Input in the finished void jewellery or articles, within 
the period stipulated in the contract or within such 
further time as may be allowed by the Chief Controller 
of Imports and Exports, New Delhi, and to pay 
customs duty leviable on that quantity which is not 
proved to have been exported. In the case of export 
orders received by the eligible associates of the HHEC. 
it will be for the HHEC to secure corresponding 
guarantees from their such associates separately, to 
ensure compliance with contractual obligations. 

11. The HHEC shall be required to deposit the 
Imported gold in Government of India Mint at 
Bombay or Calcutta either on the same day on which 
the gold is cleared through the customs or, at the 
latest, by the following day, and to obtain a proper 
receipt from the Mint authorities. Since Mint facilities 
exist only at Bombay and Calcutta, the gold imported 
under this scheme should be allowed to be imported 
only at these two places. The imported gold will be 
converted by the Mint into standard bars of .995 
purity. The corresponding exports will be allowed by 
the customs authorities only on their satisfaction on 
the basis of the Mint receipt that the required quantity 
of gold used in the manufacture of the items sought 
to b© exported, was received by the Government of 
India Mhrt 

■spirt oi gold ornanehtii etc. under the Scheme 

12. The articles to be exported under the scheme 
will be manufactured out of the gold procured from 
the domestic market. After the exports have been 
made, and the gold content used its the exported items 
verified, the HHEC will obtain the requisite quantity 
of gold from the Mint for being used as replenishment 
for the gold used in the items exported in the manner 
explained *fw , Tte!v *n f V« 

13. Exports titter die iichsm© will be allowed only 
by air-freight and through the customs houses mi 
•■ a '-r ! b?‘’ fVcoris, Madras or Delhi 


Id, Where the export order is received by the 
HHEC directly in its own name, the shipping bill for 
the relevant exports will be filed by the HHEC m its 
own name as required under the customs regulation®. 
In cases where the export order has been received 
through the eligible associates of the HHEC, the 
shipping bill for the relevant exports will be filed in 
the name of HHEC on account of the concerned 
associates whose name and address will also appear 
on the shipping bill. Such shipping bills shall also 
contain an endorsement by HHEC certifying that the 
expert is being made against an order received through 
the concerned associate and registered with HHEC 
giving also the date on which it was registered with 
them and certifying that the gold for the execution 
ox the export order, in question, was duly received 
from the foreign buyer and deposited in the Govern¬ 
ment of India Mint on the date (to be specified). 
Before making the endorsement, the HHEC will satisfy 
itself about the quantity of gold used in the 
manufacture of items to be exported and fhe minimum 
prescribed value added. Such endorsements may be 
made only by the designated officers of HHEC whose 
signatures will be deposited with the Customs before 
hand for verification. 

15. The shipping bill should, inter alia, contain 
the exporter’s declaration about the weight and the 
purity of gold used in each item to be exported, and 
the f.o.b. value of the items to be exported, name of 
the Custom House through which corresponding import 
of gold was effected, the Bill of Entry and the date 
of clearance of gold supplied by the foreign party. 
An extra copy of the shipping bill should also be 
furnished. However, in cases where shipments are 
made through a Custom House other than the Custom 
House through which the corresponding import 
of gold was effected, two extra copies of fhe Shipping 
Bill should be filed for being sent by the Custom 
House after shipment of the goods to the Custom 
House through which the corresponding import was 
made, for reference at the time of cancellation of the 
bond. (If the purity of gold used is the same in 
respect of all or some of the items to be exported, the 
exporter may give the total weight of gold and the 
total value of such items a* are of the same purity, 
instead of giving their details intemwise). In the case 
of studded items, the shipping bill should show i* 
addition to gold content a* above, the description/ 
weight/value of the stones/gems/pearls used in then- 
manufacture, as well as fhe weight lvalue of any other 
precious matels used for alloying gold. 

16. Each shipping bill as endorsed will be valid 
for exports made only through the customs house 
located at the place where the HHECs office which 
made the endorsement is situated. It will be valid 
for shipment for a period of se ven d ays from the 
Arte of the endorsement bv HHEC, excluding, 
however the ds*s on which the endorsement was 
r.-Ac if *bt i xperts rannot be- made within this 
period, rhvj exporter should file a fresh shipping Mil 
No extension in the period of shipment will be allowed 
r* *>**•$ *hfppiBf MB 



328 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


AN N EXURE I TO APPENDIX 22 -Concld. 


17. At the flmo of export, the exporter shall 
present to the concerned customs authority, along 
with the shipping Bill, three copies of the connected 
invoices as well as other documents as may be required 
by the custom*. Before allowing the export, the said 
authority will, inter alia ;— 

(i) do the necessary checks to verify that the 
weight and the purity of gold used in each 
item for export is as per the exporter’s 
declaration in the said documents; and 

(ii) satisfy itself that the export value (minus the 
cost of gold) declared by the exporter ia in 
accordance with the Customs Act and the 
Foreign Exchange Regulations Act. 

18. The weight and purity of the gold content of 
the items so passed for export will be verified by the 
customs authority on the relevant shipping bills. The 
customs authority will also attest the connected 
invoices and return two copies of the shipping bill 
and the connected invoices — one copy to the person 
who presents the export documents and the other copy 
to the office of HHEC directly. 

19. The exporter shall, within 15 days from the 
date of export, submit to the same office of HHEC 
which endorsed the shipping bill, an application in the 
prescribed form and manner fot release of gold and 
attach thereto the customs attested invoice, customs 
authenticated shipping bill and the bank certificate 
in original evidencing the negotiation of documents 
and the flight number by which the consignment was 
exported. The HHEC will, after verifying the 
documents, release the gold to the exporter fo the 
extent of the gold used in the manufacture of the 
jewellery exported as certified bv the customs on the 
shipping bin 

20. For the purpose of calculating the quantity 
of gold to be issued, the HHEC will multiply the 
weight of the gold content of the exported item, 
as certified by the Customs authority which allowed 
the export, by the following whichever 1# 
appropriate:— 

(I) Their caratago divided by 24, If the declara¬ 
tion is In carats; or 

<ti) Their fineness If the declaration Is In fin eats*. 
The figure of pure gold so calculated will be 
rounded to the nearest 10th of a gramme. 
No allowance will be allowed for any wastage. 

21. Where the export order was secured directly 
by HHEC and the exports were made by them o* their 
own. *he quantity of g old used In the Items exported 
will be taken by HHEC oa Its records for replenish¬ 
ment after having satisfied itself with reaped to the 
quantity to which It Is entitled 

AffOaMUr el CeU Ceatrel Law 

22. The HHEC shall maintain a complete recount 
consignment-wise of the gold Imported for execution 
if each export order, the exports effected *»d the 


quantity of gold released against such exports. At 
the end of each quarter viz., 30th June, 30th Septem¬ 
ber, 31st December and 31st March, the HHEC shall 
submit a report to the Reserve Bank of India, 
Ministry of Commerce, the Chief Controller of Imports 
and Exports and jurisdictional Collector of Central 
Excise or Customs, as the case may be, indicating the 
total quantity or gold imported, the total quantity of 
gold used in exports effected and the total quantity of 
gold released as replenishment against export* thus 
effected. In order to get a discharge of it* obligations 
under the bond executed by it with the Customs 
authorities the HHEC will furnish to the concerned 
Collector of Customs a statement indicating the Bill 
of Entry No. against which gold was imported for 
execution of the contract, date of importation, quantity 
of gold imported, number of each of the Shipping 
Bills against which corresponding shipments of 
ornaments/articles were made, description of the 
goods exported and the gold content in respect of each 
Shipping Bill as certified by the concerned customs 
authorities. Such applications for the cancellation of 
bond will have to be made immediately after the 
completion of the shipment of all the ornaments/ 
articles to be exported against a particular contract or 
the expiry of the period of export stipulated in the 
relevant contract with the foreign supplier of gold, 
whichever is earlier. In cases where any of the 
shipments of ornaments /articles are made through a 
Custom House other than the one through which the 
corresponding import of gold was effected, the HHEC, 
with their application for cancellation of the bond, 
will also furnish copies of the Shipping Bills against 
which exports are effected through Custom House 
other than the one through which gold was imported. 
Further details of supplementary procedures, checks 
and instructions, if necessary, would be furnished by 
the Collector of Customs concerned. HHEC would, 
for this purpose, get in touch with the Collectors. 

23. The entire transactions under the Scheme will 
be subject to *U the provision of the gold control 
law 

24. The following branches of HHEC will release 
release gold In accordance with the schema:— 

(i) The General Manager, HHEC of Tndla, 
Ltd., 1 1-A. Rouse Avenue Lane, Lok Kalya* 
Bbavau Delhi-110002. 

(it) The Branch Manager, HHEC of ladla Ltd., 
11th Floor, Nirroal Bulldlnv. Nariman Point, 
Bomba v, 

<Ui) The Branch Manager. HHEC of India Ltd., 
10th Floor, 6/A Raja Snbodh MulUck 
Stunt*, CPealtt, 


(iv) The General Manage:, HHEC of India Ltd., 
Sudarshan Building, 16/1, White* Road, 
Madras 



'rtt't sn Tnm • wrure’r 


329 


[wr I— 1 ] 


APPENDIX 22 
ANNEXURE H 

SCHEME FOR EXPORT OF GOLD ORNAMENTS AND ARTICLES FOR SALE AT APPROVED 

EXHIBITIONS 


Under this Scheme, export of gold ornaments and 
articles (other than coins) as defined in the Gold 
(Control) Act, 1968, will alone be allowed. The 
Items for export should be made of gold of purity not 
less than 0.5833 fineness which corresponds to 14 
carats. 

2. (1) The export will be made by HHEC or its 
associates. Hie eligible associates will be the follow¬ 
ing categories of persons holding valid dealer’s 
licence under the Gold Control Law :— 

(i) Registered Exporters having valid Registra¬ 
tion Certificates issued to them by the Gem 
and Jewellery Export Promotion Council: 

(ii) Co-operative Societies of certified goldsmiths ; 
and 

fill) Corporations owned or controlled by Gov¬ 
ernment holding Export House Certificates 
issued by the Chief Controller of Imports 
mi Exports, New Delhi. 

(2) Export will also be permitted by others if 
approved by Reserve Bank of India and the Ministry 
of Finance provided they hold valid dealers licence 
under the Gold Control Law and RCMC issued by 
the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council. 

3. Under this scheme, exports will be made on 
consignment basis for holding exhibitions with the 
specific or general approval of the Reserve Bank of 
India. The description of each Item exported, its total 
weight/value, and the weight and purity of its gold 
content, shall be clearly given. In the case of stud¬ 
ded Items, in addition to gold content as above, 
(he descriptlon/weight/value of the stones/gems/pearls 
used in their manufacture, as well as the description/ 
weight/value of any other precious metals used for 
alloying gold shall also be given. 

4, At the time of export, the customs authority will 
check to verify that the weight and purity of gold 
used in each Item for export is as per the exporter’s 
’declaration in the relevant shipping bill. 

5 The export shall be subject to the conditions 
that (I) the Items exported which are not sold • broad 
shall be re-imported Into India within 15 days of the 
dose of the exhibition, and (ii) in respect of the items 
sold abroad, the gold content thereof shall he Impor- 
ted as replenishment not later than one month of the 
dose of the exhibition. The Handicrafts and Hand- 
loom Export Corporation of India Limited shall exe¬ 
cute a bond to this effect with the Customs Authority 


before export is allowed. In respect of exhibitions 
organised by others (approved as per para 2 above), 
such bonds »re to be executed by the organisers 
themselves. 

6. A minimum value added of per cent over 
the value of the gold content will be Insisted upon in 
respect of the goods exported and sold under the sche¬ 
me. The value added will be calculated with refe¬ 
rence to the value of the gold content in the items 
exported and sold. For example, if the f.o.b. value 
of the item exported and sold fa Rs. 100, the value of 
gold to be replenished shall be Rs. 87 or less. In 
the case of studded items, the total value of the gold 
and other Items, namely, (tones, gems, pearls and 
other precious metals, if any, used In the manufacture 
of the item exported and sold shall be Rs. R 7 or less. 

7. Purchase of gold as replenishment will be made 

abroad with the assistance of the State Bank of India 
or their duly authorised agent at the place where the 
exhibition Is held. It will bo ensured that the price 
of gold paid Is such that it does not at any time erode 
the prescribed minimum value added of 15 per cent 
for the jewellery exported. For the purpose of cal¬ 
culating the quantity of gold, the weight of the gold 
content of the exported item, as certified by the 
Customs authority which allowed the export, will be 
multiplied by the following whichever is appro¬ 
priate :— '"t^ 

(i) Their caratage divided by 24, if the decla 
ration is in carat* ; or 

(ii) Their fineness If the declaration fa In fine¬ 
ness. The figure of pure gold so calculated 
will be rounded to the nearest lOtb of a 
gramme. No allowance will be allowed for 
any wastage. 

8. The gold imported into India as replenishment 
by HHEC will be deposited with the Government of 
Indi« Mint for subsequent release to eligible associate#. 
The HHEC shall be required to deposit the imported 
gold in Government of India Mint at Bombay or 
Calcutta either on the lame day on which the gold 
is cleared through the customs, or at the latest, by 
the following day, and to obtain a proper receipt from 
the Mint authorities. Since Mint facilities exist only 
at Bombay and Calcutta, the gold Imported under this 
Scheme should be allowed to be Imported only at 
these two places. The imported gold will bo conver¬ 
ted by th e Mint into standard bars of 995 purity 
The HHEC will obtain the requisite quantity of gold 
from the Mint for being used a* replenishment for 
the gold used in the Item* exported and sold In the 
exhibitions »bm*d 


58 GT/85— 22 . 



330 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


ANNEXURE II TO APPENDIX 22 —Concia 


9. In the case of Registered Exporters other than 
HHEC and its associates, replenishment of gold, 
wherever admisslb.e will be through the State Bank 
of India as per provisions in Annexure ITT to this 
Appendix. For this purpose, a registered exporter 
(other than the HHEC and its associates) need only 
submit the documents specified in para 10 below. 

10. The following documents will be submitted 
for claiming replenishment of gold against export 
of gold ornaments and articles sold at exhibitions 
abroad :— 

(1) Customs attested invoice representing the 
exports made for the purpose of exhibition. 

(2) Certificate from (i) the HHEC in respect of 
exhibitions conducted by them or (ii) Gem 
and Jewellery Export Promotion Council 
for exhibitions conducted by others indicat¬ 
ing the particulars as per form prescribed 
in Appendix XVIII of the Hand Book Certify¬ 
ing, among others, that the payment against 
sales in exhibition/s has been repatriated to 
India and surrendered to the Indian Exchange 
Control, 

(3) Bank certificate in the Form given in Annexure 
III to Appendix XIV-D of the Hand Book 
indicating the receipt of payment in foreign 
exchange. (The time limit for submission of 
an application will be reckoned from the 
date of payment as shown in the bank certi¬ 
ficate). 

(4) Where an applicant is unable to produce bank 
certificate as the documents were not nego¬ 
tiated through the bank, the licensing autho¬ 
rity may accept the documents in (2) above 
if it is satisfied on the basis of other evidence 
that the payment for the goods in question 
has been received through authorised channels. 


11. Exports and sales of gold ornaments and articles 
(other than studded) made under the scheme 
will not be eligible for any other incentive, except 
replenishment of gold to the extent as laid down in 
this scheme. Exports of gold ornaments and articles, 
when studded, made under this scheme, will how¬ 
ever be eligible for import replenishment subject to 
the condition that the net value added will not be 
less than 15% as provided in para 6 above. For the 
purpose of determining f.o.b. value, the value of 
gold and other precious metals as shown in the 
customs attested in voice, shall be excluded. Import 
replenishment of the same items to the same extent, 
asallowed against S.No. P 4 in Appendix 17, will be 
admissible. 

12. The HHEC will maintain complete record of 
exports made, goods sold abroad, goods re-imported 
and the gold purchased abroad and imported into 
India. At the end of each exhibition, the HHEC shall 
submit report to the Reserve Bank of India, the 
Ministry of Commerce, the Chief Controller of Im¬ 
ports and Exports and the Jurisdictional Collector of 
Central Excise and Customs, giving complete account 
as aforesaid. 

13. The Gold Control regulations will apply as 
appropriate. 

14. The HHEC will produce to the customs au¬ 
thority concerned, (he letter in origin*! or its certified 
copy, containing Government’s approval to the hold¬ 
ing of the exhibition concerned. In respect of exhi¬ 
bitions organised other than through HHEC, the 
Organisers concerned will have to produce to the 
Customs authority concerned letter in original or a 
certified copy containing the approval of the Reserve 
Bank of India and the Ministry of Finance. 




(*TT»7 I—1 ) 


WITT TTT TTW'-m 


331 


APPENDIX 22 
ANNEXURK in 

GOLD JEWELLERY EXPORT PROMOTION 
AND REPLENISHMENT SCHEME. 


Scope of the Scheme 

Export of gold ornaments and articles (other than 
eoin) aa defined in the Gold (Control) Act, 1968 
will alone be allowed under the scheme. Such orna¬ 
ments and articles when studded will also be permit¬ 
ted to be exported under the scheme. The items for 
export should be made of gold of purity not less than 
0.5833 fineness which corresponds to 14 carats. r rhc 
scheme has come into effect from 25th April 1984. 

2. The scheme will be confined to the following 
categories of persons holding valid Dealer’s Licence 
under the Gold Control Law 

(i) Registered Exporters having valid Registra¬ 
tion Certificates issued to them by the Gem 
and Jewellery Export Promotion Council; 

(li) Co-operative Societies of certified golds¬ 
miths; and 

(111) Corporations owned or controlled by Gov¬ 
ernment holding Export House Certificate 
issued by the Chief Controller of Imports 
k Exports, New Delhi. 

3. Membership of the Gem and Jewellery Export 
Promotion Connell will not be pre-requisite condition 
for the category (ii) above to participate in the 
Scheme to begin with, but they should join the Coun¬ 
cil within a period of 3 months from the date of 
first export. 

4. The Gem and Jewellery Export Promotloa Coun¬ 
cil will keep the particualrs of the Identification mark3, 
If any, of ns members under the Hall Marking Sche¬ 
me of the Indian Standards Institution. But It would 
not be obligatory on the part of its members to 
follow the Hall Marking Scheme until further orders, 

5. Tim scheme provide#, for the replenishment of 
pure gold to the extent ef the quantity/value admis¬ 
sible thereunder, against exports made in accordance 
with it. Government win notify separately, from 
time to time, the place* and price at which the gold 
will be sold to the Release Order holders. Such re¬ 
plenishment will be arranged through the State Bank 
of India, 

6. The scheme will be limited to exports effected 
against such orders as are backed by an irrevocable 
letter of credit or payment on cash-on-delivery basis 
or advanoe payment in foreign exchange received 
through an authorised dealer (bank). The documents 
should be negotiated through an authorised dealer 
In foreign exchange only. The export order should 
relate to a single buyer overseas, although It may 
cover more than one item of export 


In case of export effected against such orders as 
■re backed by either an irrevocable letter oi credit 
or payment on cash-on-delivery basis, the exporter 
will have to give an undertaking In writing agreeing 
to refund the difference between the sale price of 
gold released by the State Bank of India and Its 
prevailing ‘internal’ market price, if he fails to re¬ 
patriate the export proceeds in full or if the articles 
axported are rejected or returned to India. 

7, A minimum value added of 15% over the value 
of the pure gold content will be insisted npon in res¬ 
pect of the exports made under the scheme and for 
the purpose of replenishment of gold. The added 
value will be calculated by relating the value of pure 
gold content in the jewellery exported, at the price 
notified under para 5 above, as ruling on the date 
on which the relevant Shipping Bill is endorsed by 
the licensing authority under para 14 below, to the 
f.o.b. price of the items to be exported. For example, 
if the f.o.b. price Is Rs. 100/-, the value of pure 
gold should be Ri. " 87 or less. In the case of 
studded items, the total value of pure gold, stones or 
gems or pearls as well as other precious metals, If 
any, used In their manufacture, should be Rs.87 
or less. 

8. On furnishing (i) an undertaking as provided 
in paragraph 6 and (ii) the declaration as provided 
In paragraph 17 of the scheme that no realisation of 
foreign exchange against exports made under this 
scheme is outstanding beyond a period of two months 
from the date of shipment, the release order Issued 
by the licensing authority may be honoured by the 
State Bank of India even prior to the realisation of 
the export proceeds In foreign exchange. 

9. Exports under the scheme, shall be allowed only 
by Air-freight and through the Customs House at 
Bombay,/ Calcutta/Madrafl/Delhi|Jaipui. 

10. Exports of gold ornament# and articles (Other 
than studded) made under the scheme will not be 
eligible for any other incentive. Exports of gold 
ornaments and articles, when studded, made under 
the scheme will, however, be eligible for import re¬ 
plenishment subject to the condition that the net 
value added will not be less than 15% a# provided 
in pant 7 above. For the purpose of determining 
f.o.b. value, the value of gold and other precious 
metals as shown in the Customs attested invoice, 
shall be excluded Import replenishment of the tame 
items and to the same extent, as allowed against SI. 




332 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Part I—Sec. 1] 

ANNEXURE III TO APPENDIX 22 —Comd. 


No. P. 4 in Appendix 17, will be admissible. 

Mode oj exports and its control 

11. Eligible exporters should,apply for endorse¬ 
ment on the Shipping Bill, in the prescribed form and 
to the concerned licensing authority as per the enclo¬ 
sure I hereto. The application should be supported 
by a certified copy of the export order referred to in 
para 7 above. Where the price contracted for is on 
e.i.f. basis, the applicant shall also declare the esti¬ 
mated f.o.b. value thereof in the application for the 
export. (For the purpose of replenishment of gold, 
only the f.o.b. value will be taken into consideration). 

12. The shipping bill should, inter alia, contain the 
exporter’s declaration about the weight and the 
purity of gold used in each item to be exported, and 
the f.o.b. value of the items to be exported. An extra 
copy of the Shipping Bill should also be furnished. 
(If the purity of gold used is the same in respect of 
all or some of the items to be exported, the exporter 
may gise the total weight of gold and the total value 
of such items as are of the same purity instead of 
giving their details itemwise). In the case of studded 
items, the shipping bill should show, in addition to 
the gold content as above, the description/weight/ 
value of the stones/gems/pearls used in their manu¬ 
facture as well as the weight/value of any other pre¬ 
cious metal used for alloying the gold. 

13. The licensing authority will, after satisfying 
itself about the minimum value added as set down 
in para 8 above, make an endorsement on the Ship¬ 
ping Bill to permit export, if the application is other¬ 
wise in order. 

14. Each Shipping Bill, as endorsed, will be valid 
for exports made only through the Customs House 
located at the place where the licensing office which 
made the endorsement is situated and for a period 
of seven days from the date of the endorsement, ex¬ 
cluding, however, the date on which the endorsement 
was made. (In the event of the exporter being unable 
to effect exports during the period of ihe said validity, 
he may apply afresh; no request for extension of vali¬ 
dity will be entertained under the scheme). 

15. At the time of export, the exporter thall present 
to the concerned Customs authority, along with the 
Shipping Bill, three copies of the connected invoice 
as well as such other documentation as may be requir¬ 
ed by the Customs. Before allowing the export, the 
said authority will inter-alia ■ 

(I) do the necessary checks to verify that the 
Weight and the purity of gold used in each 
item for export arc as per the exporter’s 

declaration m the anld documents; and 

(II) satisfy itself that the export value declared 
by export u is in accordance with the 
Customs Act and the Foreign Exchange 
Regulations Act. 

16. The weight and the purity of the gold content 
of the items so pos^d for export will be verified bv 


the Customs authority, on the relevant shipping bills. 
The Customs authority will also attest the connected 
invoice and return two copies of the shipping bill and 
the connected invoice to the exporter 

17. The exporter shall, within 7 clear working days 
after the exports have been made and without wait¬ 
ing for the realisation of the sale proceeds in foreign 
exchange, submit to the same licensing authority at 
that which endorsed the Shipping Bill, an application, 
in the prescribed form and manner, for the issue of a 
Release Order, and attach thereto die Customs attest¬ 
ed invoice, the Customs authenticated Shipping Bill 
and the Bank Certificate, in original. Along with 
the application for issue of a Release Order, the ex¬ 
porter should also furnish a declaration, duly signed 
by him, certifying that no realisation of foreign ex¬ 
change against exports made under this scheme is out¬ 
standing beyond a period of two months from the date 
of shipment. The licensing authority, will, after veri¬ 
fying the documents, issue a Release Order so as to 
enable the exporter to secure the replenishment of the 
pure gold-content of the items exported as above, if 
the application is otherwise in order. 

18. No Release Order issued under the Scheme shall 
be transferable and each Release Order will be valid 
for a period of 15 days from the date of its issue. 

19. The Release Order will be expressed in terms 
of gold of 0.999 fineness and for a value determined 
at the notified price as ruling on the date on which the 
relevant Shipping Bill was endorsed by the licensing 
authority. Both quantity and value shall be limiting 
factors in the case of each Release Order. 


20. For the purpose of calculating the quantity of 
pure gold to be set down in the Release Order, the 
licensing authority will multiply the weight of the gold 
content of the exported items, as certified by the Cus¬ 
toms authority which allowed the export, by the follow¬ 
ing whichever is appropriate :— 

(i) their caratage divided by 24, if the declara¬ 
tion is in carats; or 


(il) their fineness, if the declaration is in fine¬ 
ness. 

No allowance will be made for any wastage and the 
figure of pure gold so calculated will be rounded to 
the nearest tenth of • gramme. 

21. (!) In the case of “Meenakari” items, a deduc¬ 
tion of 3 per cent will be made in the weight 
of pore gold as calculated above for the pur¬ 
pose of import replenishment under the 
scheme 




[wrl—«r 1 ] wxfl 3it xrtns . wrww 333 

ANNEXURE III TO APPENDIX 22 —Contd. 


(II) In the above cases, both quantity and value 
will continue to be limiting factors 

22. I he been sing authority will endorse a copy of 
the Release Order to the designated office of the 
State Bank ol India located within the area of its own 
jurisdiction, which is authorised to sell gold under the 
scheme. 


23. The said designated office of the State Bank of 
India will sell the gold to the Release Order holdet 
at the notified price as ruling on the date of its sale. 
Where gold of putity less than 0.999 is sold, the State 
Bank of India will be entitled to make necessary quan¬ 
titative adjustment, but within the value limit of the/ 
connected Release Order, It will sell the gold in 
multiples of 10 gramme only. Any balance so left 
unserviced against a Release Order—or a group of 
Release Orders presented by the same exporter, on 
the same date and to the same designated office of the 
State Bank of India—shall be available to the Release 
Order-holder along with his future entitlement, the 
State Bank of India will grant him a certificate lo that 
effect. 

24, Eveiy Release Order shall be surrendered ty 
the holder, m original, to the State Bank of India at 
the time of the purchase of the gold as above, against 
proper acquittance. 


Applicability of Gold Control Luw 

25. Gold bought from the State Bank of India under 
he Scheme shall be subject to all provisions of the 
3old Control Law. 


Branches of the State Bank of India at which gold will 
be sold 

26. The following are the branches ol the State 
Bank ol India at which gold will be sold m accord* 
ance with this scheme :— 

(i) Ihe Chief Manager, 

Overseas Branch, State Bank ol India, 

P. B. No. 10006, Bombay—400 023. 

(n.i The Chief Mauager, 

Overseas Branch, State Bank of India; 

P. B. No 14, Calcutta—700 Out 

(m) The ChiO Mauager, 

Overseas Branch, State Bank ol India, 

23, North Beach Road, 

Madras-—600 001. 

(iv) The Chief Manage), 

Overseas Biaitch, Side Bank of Inuta 
P. B. No. 22, New Delhi *110 001, 

(v) The Manager, 

State Bank of India, 

Main Branch, 

Sanganiri Gate, 

Jaipur. 

Procedure for Export of Gold Jeweller}. 

27. The procedure foi export of goiu jewellery is 
being notified separately. 

28. The Scheme for export of gold jewellery against 
gold supplied by the foreign buyer as notified in Pub- 
Uclic Notice No. 39-ITC(PN)/80 dated the 14 th Octo¬ 
ber, 1980, and included as Appendix 22, Annexure 
I to the Import and Export Policy for April 1985— 
March 1988, Volume I, will co-exist along with this 
scheme. 



334 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


1. Jt. CCI&E, Bombay 

2. Jt. CCI&E, Calcutta 

3. Jt CCI&E. Madras 

4 Jt. CCI&E, (CLA). Delhi. 
5. Dy. CCI&E, Jaipur 


ENCLOSURE I 

(Para 11 of Anne*ore III to Appendix 22) 

Licensing authorities and their jurisdiction. 

I Maharashtra, Goa, Daman & Diu, Dadra and Nagar 

Haveli, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh. 

I West Bengal, Orissa, Assam, Bihar, Sikkim, Meghalaya, 

Manipur, Nagaland, Arunacha) Pradesh, Mizoram, 
Tripura and Andaman & Nicobar iBlands. 

I Tamil Nadu, Kerala Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, 

Union Territory of L&Cnadweep, Pondicherry, 
Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam. 

i Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & 

Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh 

I Rajasthan. 



(<TFT I—<M l) 


WW *FT ^Tspra . K u l 


335 


APPENDIX 22 
ANNEXURE IV 

SCHEME FOR SETTING UP SPECIAL EXPORT ORIENTED COMPLEXES FOR MANUFACTURE 

OF GOLD JEWELLERY 


Manufacture of gold jewellery will be permitted 
in special export oriented complexes. These special 
export oriented complexes will be governed by the 
provisions of the 100% export oriented units scheme 
as detailed in Appendix 23 of this Policy, except 
that : 

(a) nothing, including the rejects, manufactured 
in these complexes will be permitted to be 
sold in the domestic tariff area ; 

(b) the specific requirements of jewellery manu¬ 
facturing units, including machines. Equip¬ 
ment, consumables and ancillaries will be 
determined on a case by case basis, from a 
list of items which will be drawn up; 

(c) th; format for the bond for the units in these 
complexes, which will be for a period of ten 
years, will b drafted specially by the Ministry 
of Commerce; 

(d) as soon as a unit is dcbonded, it will no 
longer be permitted to function within the 
complex; and 

(e) on a unit being dcbonded, gold, other pre¬ 
cious metals, alloys, gems and other material 
available for manufacture of jewellery will 
be handed over to an agency nominated by 
the Ministry of Commerce at the price to be 
determined by that agency. Ministry of 
Commerce will identify such an agency, and 
issue a -propriate notification. 

2. To siari with, the complexes will be permitted 
at five centres, viz. Delhi, Jaipur, Calcutta, Madras 
and Bombay. 

3 The decision to extend the facility of setting 
up such complexes at other centre s will b e taken 
on merits by the Ministry of Commerce. 

4, Special export-oriented complexes will be 
Identified by the trade or may be sponsored by either 
State Government or a public sector enterprise of 
the State or Central Government and the proposal! 
from Individual ontrepisnestii be eoordlsatod 

either b) the ipi nnonui. i <«* ‘"'w. A 

Jewellery Export Promotion ff 


5. Each building complex so identified for a 
complex of units for jewellery manufacture will serve 
as a common facility, all costs, including for the 
Customs staff, being shared by the entrepreneurs 
operating in the complex on the basis laid down by 
the sponsoring agency. 

6. A Site Selection Committee will be constituted 
by the Ministry of Commerce which will be res¬ 
ponsible for making recommendations to the Board 
of Approval regarding the locational suitability of 
the complexes from the view point of security and 
Customs bonding arrangements. 

7. The recommendations of the Site Selection 
Committee as well as individual applications of units 
wishing to function in a complex will be considered 
by the Board of Approvals for 100% EOUs. 

8. In the case of gold jewellery manufacturing 
units operating in thes6 complexes, the facilities to 
be allowed for import of capita! goods, prototypes, 
technical samples, consumables, spares and packag¬ 
ing material will be separately worked out as approved 
by the Board of Approvals, and a separate notifica¬ 
tion will be issued. 

9. The units in these complexes will be permitted 
in accordance with the procedure applicable to the 
100% EOU scheme and the stipulation laid down in 
para 10 below, to directly import all raw material, 
intermediates and components, including gold alloys, 
carat gold, coloured gold, precious metals including 
platinum and palladium, sockets, frames, mountings, 
gems and stones. Gold of 0.999 fineness and purity 
will, however, not be allowed except through the 
State Bank of India or any other agency designated 
by the Ministry of Commerce in consultation with 
the Gold Control authorities, the Central Board of 
Bxdso & Customs and the Chief Controller of Imports 
Iff Exports and, In such cases, special identification 
mark* will be stamped bythe Government Mint at 
Bombay ■ 



336 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Pari 1—Sec. 1) 

ANNEXURE IV TO APPENDIX 22—Contd. 


10. The assessment about the quantity of imported 
material required for manufacture by a particular 
unit will be determined on the basis of the potential 
of export and its periodical requirement according 
to a cycle of turnover indicated by a unit and approved 
by the Board of Approvals. The limits of quantities 
determined initially may be reduced or enhanced by 
the Board of Approvals in the light of export per¬ 
formance, orders in hand or the capacity of produc¬ 
tion, established on the basis of the recommendations 
of the Export Commissioner or any other officer 
designated for re-assessment by the Board of Approals. 


11. Dealers’ licences under the Gold Control Act 
for units approved by the Board of Approvals for 
operation in jewellery complexes will be obtained 
by the units. 

12. Membership of the Gem and Jewellery Export 
Promotion Council will not be a pre-requisite con¬ 
dition to participate in the Scheme to begin with but 
they should join the Council within a period of three 
months from the date of first export. 

13. Export under this scheme shall be allowed 
oaly by air freight through the Customs Houses at 
Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Delhi and Jaipur 




[mn I—*rsr 1 ] 


bra =trr mm' snuurat 


337 


APPENDIX 
ANNEXEREV 

SCHEME FOR MANUFACTLIRE OF GOLD JEWELLERY IN REE TRADE ZONES 


Manufacture of gold jewellery will be permitted 
in FTZs. Units set up in FTZs for manufacture of 
gold jewellery will be governed by the provisions of 
the FTZ scheme as detailed in Appendix 15 of this 
Policy, except that : 

(a) nothing, including the rejects, manufactured 
in these complexes will be permitted to be 
sold in the domestic tariff area ; 

(b) the specific requirements of jewellery manu¬ 
facturing units, including machines, equip¬ 
ment, consumables and ancillaries will be 
determined on a case by case basis, from a 
list of items which will be drawn up; 

(c) in the event of a unit ceasing its operations, 
gold, other precious metals, alloys, gem and 
other material available for manufacture of 
jewellery will be handed over to an agency 
nominated by the Ministry of Commerce 
at the Price to be determined by that agency. 
Ministry of Commerce will identify such an 
agency, and issue appropriate notification. 

(d) minimum value added content of 30% or 
more will be necessary for production in sucb 
b unit. 

2. To start with, such units will be permitted in 
the FTZs at FALTA, Madras, Cochin and NOIDA. 

3. The decision to extend the facility of setting 
op such units at other FTZs will be taken subsequently 
by the Ministry of Commerce. 

4. In the case of gold jewellery manufacturing 
units operating in these Zones, the facilities to be 
allowed for import of capital goods, prototypes, 
technical samples, consumables, spares and packag¬ 
ing material will be separately worked out as approved 
by the Board of Approvals, and a separate notifica¬ 
tion will be issued. 

5.1 The units in these Zuties will be permitted 
m accordance with the ptocedure applicable to the 


FTZ scheme and the stipulation laid down in para 
6 below, to directly import all raw materials, inter¬ 
mediates and components, including gold alloys, 
carat gold, coloured gold, precious metals including 
platinum and palladium, sockets, frames, mountings, 
gems and stones. 

5.2 Gold of 0.999 fineness and purity will, how¬ 
ever, not be allowed except through the State Bank 
of India or any other agency designated by the 
Ministry of Commerce in consultation with the Gold 
Control authorities, the Central Board of Excise and 
Customs and the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports and, in such cases, special identification marks 
will be stamped by the Government Mint at Bombay. 

6. The assessment about the quantity of im¬ 
ported material required for manufacture by a parti¬ 
cular unit will be determined on the basis of the 
potential of export and its periodical requirement 
according to a cycle of turnover indicated by a unit 
and approved by the Board of Approvals. The 
limits of quantities determined initially may be reduced 
or enhanced by the Board of Approvals in the light 
of export performance, orders in hand or the capacity 
of production, established on the basis of the recom¬ 
mendations of the Export Commissioner or any 
other officer designated for re-assessment by the 
Board of Approvals. 

7. Dealers’ licences under the Gold Control 
Act for units approved by the Board of Approvals 
for operation in jewellery Zones will be obtained by 
the units. 

8. Membership of the Gem and Jewellery Export 
Promotion Council will not be a pre-requisite condi¬ 
tion to participate in the Scheme to begin with but 
they should join the Council within a period of three 
months from the date of first export. 

9. Export under this scheme shall be allowed only 
by air freight through the Custom Houses at Bombay? 
Calcutta, Madias Delhi and Cochin 




338 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 23 

(Chapter XIX) 

100% EXPORT ORIENTED UNIT SCHEME 


The 100 % Export Oriented Unit Scheme envisages 
an industrial unit offering for export its entire produc¬ 
tion, excluding rejects or items otherwise specifically 
permitted to be supplied to the Domestic Tariff Area. 
A copy of the Ministry of Commerce Resolution dated 
the 31st December, 1980, as amended, regarding 100 % 
Export Oriented Units appears in this Appendix. 

2. Application for approval as a 100% Export 
Oriented Unit should be submitted to the Secretariat 
for Industrial Approvals, Ministry of Industry, Udyog 
Bhavan, New Delhi in the form prescribed in Appendix 
XIX-A of the Hand Book along with relevant Foreign 
Collaboration form where applicable. These appli¬ 
cations will be considered by a Board headed by the 
Commerce Secretary. 

3. Industrial Units approved by the Board set up 
for this purpose will alone be eligible for import of 
Capital Goods, raw materials, components and 
spares, etc., required by them for export production 
under the Scheme. While giving its approval, the 
Board will also decide the percentage of value addi¬ 
tion in the product to be exported as well as the des¬ 
cription of the product to be exported. 

4. Such approvals will be subject to the conditions 
given below :— 

(a) the entire production and operation of the 
100% Export Oriented Unit shall be in a 
Customs-bonded factory. The Collector of 
Customs/Central Excise concerned will pro¬ 
vide the bonding facilities for the factory 
premises on payment. Normal procedure 
that is applicable for Customs bonding will 
be followed, including transit bond for the 
purpose of goods being taken from the port 
of importation to the factory; 

(b) Import of capital goods permitted is to be 
effected within two years from the date of 
issue of the Letter of Approval. For any 
additional requirements of capital goods, 
over that permitted initially, the unit will 
have to apply afresh to the Board of Approval; 

(c) No export benefits like Cash Assistance or 
Replenishment licences would be admissible 
on any export or supplies effected by a 100 % 
Export Oriented Unit 

{i, 5 i *d i hv. ..* .j-MlleO £pl 

reject.] upto ‘t or such percentage m 
smty b* by ’ho Board; «d) supplier) 


effected in the Domestic Tariff Area not 
exceeding 25% of the total output as per 
para 8(a) celow; and (tii) supplies effected 
in the Domestic Tariff Area under global 
tender conditions; 

(e) The items permitted for import under OGL 
and the conditions applicable thereto are 
contained in the OGL Annexed. For their 
other import requirements, if any, not covered 
under OGL, such as air-conditioners required 
for the factory, the unit concerned will have 
to obtain import licence from the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New 
Delhi. Applications will be considered on 
merits, having regard to indigenous angle and 
other conditions. 


(/) The unit will have to show a mini um value 
addition of 20 % or such percentage as men¬ 
tioned in the Approval Letter/Letter of 
Intent. For this purpose, all foreign exchange 
out-go attributable to the 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit and supplies procured from 
the Domestic Tariff Area of raw materials, 
components and consumables shall be taken 
into account. Formula for calculation of 
value addition is given in the application 
form in Appendix XJX-A of the Hand Book. 

ig) A unit approved under this Scheme shall 
execute a Bond or legal agreement (shown in 
Appendix XlX-B of thejjHand Book) with the 
Licensing authority concerned, undertaking 
to fulfil the export obligation prescribed. 
Failure to discharge the export obligation 
will render the unit liable to the payment of 
Customs duty on the material imported at 
the value at the time of import and at the 
rates in force at the time of clearance without 
prejudice to any other actions that may be 
taken under the Customs Act, 1962 and the 
Imports and Exports (Control) Act, 1947 and 
the Orders issued thereunder. Exemption 
from Customs duty on imports by 
100% Export Oriented Units will be 

subject to such other orders as may be issued 
separately by the Department of Revenue, 
Ministry of Finance, New Delhi. 

,.t T?! s-. uj.ir*sh of the dose of each financial 

yff-ti unit ■concerned shall furnish an 
*«nnrt to the consented licensing authority 



*!TC5T TT TT3TC?T Wram 


339 


('flK L—Js rv 1 ) 


APPENDIX 23 —Contd 


in regard to (i) the quantity and value (c.i.f. 
or the price paid, as the case may be) of 
items directly imported or supplies obtained 
from the Domestic Tariff Area; (ii) the 
quantity and f.o.b. value of items exported 
outside the country; ( iii ) sales of rejects per¬ 
mitted; (iv) sales permitted upto 25% of 
production to the Domestic Tariff Area; 
and (v) supplies to Domestic Tariff Area 
under the global tender condition. The 
approved unit shall also furnish quarterly 
returns indicating the progress of implemen¬ 
tation of the project in the form as prescribed 
directly to the Export Commissioner in the 
Office of the CCI&E. The annual returns as 
well as other returns, as may be prescribed 
by the Board of Approval, will be sent 
through the Customs/Central Excise Officer 
attached to the industrial unit concerned. 
Failure to submit the above periodicals/ 
returns may result in with-holding of permis¬ 
sion for disposal of rejects, etc. 

(f) Wherever an existing industrial unit is opera¬ 
ting both as domestic unit as well as an 
approved 100% Export Oriented Unit, it 
should have two distinctly different names 
for the two units. It is clarified that it is 
not necessary for the approved 100% Export 
Oriented Unit to have a separate legal entity. 
However, it should be possible to distinguish 
the import and export or supplies effected by 
the 100% E.O.Us. from those made by the 
other unit/units of the same firm/company. 
The 100% Export Oriented Unit, though 
not having separate legal entity, would not 
be eligible to be considered for the benefits 
of any provisions under this policy other 
than those expressly provided for 100 % 
B.O.Us. 


tj) While applying for approval, the applicant 
unit should also furnish the list of items 
including capital goods, it will need to import. 
In respect of raw materials, components 
and spares, etc., the requirements, covering 
a period of 12 months in respect of each 
item should be given. The quantity should 
be mentioned in respect of each item though 
not itemwise value. The value mentioned 
should be aggregated separately for (i) Capital 
goods and (ii) Raw materials, components, 
consumables, intermediates, packing materials 
and spares. The list of items should also 
Include items which have been placed under 
Open General Licence under the normal 
Import Policy. 

£. Based on the approval granted by the Board, 
a 100 % Export Oriented Unit will be eligible to Import 
without payment of Customs duty) capital goods 
whether new or second hand) os proto-types and 
twhnSsal saisplet, generating nets raw 


components, consumables, intermediates, packing 
materials, material handling equipment like fork lifts, 
overhead cranes (only initially at the time of setting up 
of factory), building construction materials and spares 
under Open General Licence in this Appendix, subject 
to the conditions laid down therein. Items banned 
for import in the Domestic Tariff Area in Appendix 2 
Part A of this Policy, are however, not allowed to 
be imported. Indigenously manufactured capital 
goods, components and raw materials will be allowed 
without payment of Central Excise duty. 


Supplies made by Domestic Tariff Area units to 100% 
Export Oriented Units 

6. ( a ) Supplies of material handling equipment 

such as fork lifts, overhead cranes (only initially at 
the time of setting up of factory), building construc¬ 
tion materials, consumables and spares to 100% 
Export Oriented Units shall be treated as ‘Deemed 
Exports’ and will be eligible for import replenishment 
licences in accordance with the Import Policy for 
Registered Exporters, provided :— 


(i) the goods supplied have been manufactured 
in India; 

(//) the supplier is a Registered Exporter and 
is otherwise eligible to the import replenish¬ 
ment licence under the policy in force. 


(b) The supplier’s relevant invoice In such cases 
should be got endorsed by the Customs/Central 
Excise authorities to the effect that the goods covered 
by the invoice have been received by the 100% 
Export Oriented Unit concerned giving the name and 
address of that unit. 


(c) Where buyer’s unit concerned has an import 
licence for the import of the same goods, the Customs 
authority endorsing the invoice will also debit the 
import licence making it invalid for direct import of 
goods to the extent procured locally. 

( d ) The goods obtained locally under this pro¬ 
vision whether against an import licence or otherwise 
shall be included in the account to be furnished by 
the unit to the licensing authority at the end of each 
financial year as laid down in para 4(h) above. The 
goods thus obtained locally shall be used for export 
production in accordance with the provision laid 
down for a 100% Export Oriented Unit. 


(e) The supplier of the goods can claim. If admis¬ 
sible otherwise, import replenishment licences unde; 

the import policy for Registered IN porters again** 
*ncfc iuppliet Import applications shoal.’ b* «"**# 


340 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Pari I —Sec. i] 


APPBNDIX 23— Contd, 


to the licensing authorities concerned in the prescri¬ 
bed form and manner. The application should be 
supported by the following documents - 

(/) Chalan for the requisite amount towards 
application fee; 

(ii) Supplier’s invoice duly endorsed by the 
. Customs authority to the effect that the goods 
covered by the invoice have been received by 
the buyer unit concerned. 

A statement of exports in the form prescribed 
in the Hand Book of Import-Export Proce¬ 
dures for 1985—88. 


(Iv) The value on which REP licence will be 
admissible will be “FOR destination”. 


Applications based on such supplies should be made 
separately and not included in the claim based on 
physical exports. 


(/) The supplier of the goods can also claim 
other benefits, namely, ( a ) discharge of export obli¬ 
gation against Capital goods licence or Industrial 
licence or Foreign Collaboration approval, (/;) grant 
of export house certificate and (c) benefits, if any, 
available to exporting units under the Actual User 
Policy, 


Transfer of materials from 100% Export Oriented 
Units to unit in FTZ/100% EOUs 

7, Transfer of products manufactured by 100% 
Export Oriented Units to another 100 % Export 
Oriented Unit or to a Unit in “Free Trade Zone” 
may bo allowed subject to the same conditions as 
prescribed in para 8(v) of Appendix 15 of this Policy. 


Sale of goods by 100 per cent Export Oriented Units 
In the Domestic Tariff Area 

8. ( a ) Sale of goods manufactured by an approved 
100% Export Oriented Unit may be allowed in the 
Domestic Tariff Area against valid import licences, 
if the items sought to be supplied to the Domestic 
Tariff Area require an import licence in accordance 
with the import policy in force. Such sales shall 
not exceed 25% of production of the same item by 
the unit concerned during the licensing year. Within 
the 25% limit, sale into Domestic market of the 
Items allowed for import undu Open General Licence 
may also be allowed, subject to the conditions taid 
town for Import as QGL 


(6) The sale shall be effected only with the prior 
permission of the Export Commissioner in the office 
of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, New 
Delhi. The unit desiring to sell its goods in the 
domestic market should approach the Export Com¬ 
missioner. It should also indicate the quantity of 
the item sought to be supplied in the domestic market 
against valid import licence, or covered under OGL, 
and the total quantity of the same item produced by 
the unit, as on date, during the licensing year. The 
application should be certified by the officer of the 
Customs/Central Excise In-cfiargo of the bonded 
area. The Export Commissioner will verify that the 
proposed sale does not exceed 25% of the actual 
production already turned out by the unit before 
allowing sale in the domestic market. 

(c) After obtaining the permission from the 
Export Commissioner, the purchaser may prefer an 
application through the 100% Export Oriented Unit 
which is to supply such goods in the following 
manner ;— 

(/) In respect of itoms which require an import 
licence under the Import Policy in force on 
the proposed date of sale, applications for 
sale of such items may be preferred to the 
Customs/Central Excise Officer concerned 
along with valid import licence held bv the 
Domestic Tariff Area Unit (purchaser). If 
the valid import licence(s) produced cover(s) 
import of items proposed to be sold by the 
100% Export Oriented Unit, the Customs/ 
Central Excise Officer concerned will allow 
such supplies to the unit in DTA after suitably 
debiting the licence(s) (on both copies), 
making an entry of the value of supplies in 
the permission of the Export Commissioner 
referred to in para 8(6) above. The details 
like the date of supply, description of items, 
quantity, value and duty paid should be 
indicated while debiting the licence(s). 

( it ) If the material(s) proposed to be sold by the 
100% Export Oriented Units does/do not 
require any import licence in accordance with 
the policy in force on the date of such sale, 
a 100% Export Oriented Unit which proposes 
to sell may prefer an application for issue of 
Release Order to the licensing authority 
concerned. 

(d) The Release Order will be issued In duplicate 
and the value of the Release Order will be entered 
by the Licensing Authority in the permission of the 
Export Commissioner referred to in para 8(6) above. 
The original of the Release Order shall be retained 
by the 100% Export Oriented Unit after obtaining 
the acquittance of the Release Order holder for the 
leceipi of goods and the value/quantity thereof 
I'his will serve as an evidence of export by the con¬ 
cerned 100% Export Oriented Unit The value to 



$rr Tnw?r mfrarrur 


341 


i] 


APPENDIX 23 —Contd. 


be treated as f.o.b. value of exports will be the value 
for which the goods are supplied or the value of 
the Release Order, whichever is lower, 

(e) The purchaser ot the goods shall be liable to 
pay excise duty, sales tax and such other taxes/duties 
as may be leviable on the goods in question. 

(f) The sale shall be subject to the notification 
as may be issued by the Department of Revenue, 
Ministry of Finance, New Delhi, or such other notifF 
cation or instructions as may be issued by them from 
time to time in this regard. 

9. For facilitating the units approved under this 
Scheme to be eligible for priority treatment in matters 
relating to setting up and implementation of their 
projects, they can apply for Green Cards to the 


Export Commissioner in the Office of the Chief 
Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi. 
These Green Cards will be issued to those units which 
have taken effective steps for implementation of their 
projects. 

Applicability of Export Policy 

10. Supply of goods from units in the Domestic 
Tariff Area to an approved 100% Export Oriented 
Unit shall be in accordance with the Export Policy 
in force. 

11. Open General Licence No. 17/85 dated 12th April, 
1985 permitting import of items by an approved 100 % 
Export Oriented Unit is given in Annexure K to 
this Appendix. 



342 


THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 23 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
(DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE) 
RESOLUTION 


No. 8(15)/78-EP New Delhi, the 31st December, 
1980, as amended vide Ministry of Commerce Reso¬ 
lution No. 1/5/82-EP, dated the 21st November, 
1983. 

100% EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS 

In order to bridge the increasing deficit in the 
balance of trade and running down of exchange reser¬ 
ves, it has become necessary to step up the growth of 
our exports. Accordingly Government have decided 
to implement a scheme to facilitate the setting up of 
100% export oriented units. It has been decided to 
give such units certain concessions to enable them to 
meet rigours of foreign demand in terms of pricing, 
quality precision, etc. 

2. A 100% export oriented unit would imply aa 
Industrial unit offering for exports its entire production 
excluding permitted levels of rejects. An agreed time- 
phasing for achieving 100% export will be permissible 
on merits of each case. Such aa unit would belong to 
an industry in respect of which the export potential 
and export targets have been considered by the relevant 
Export Promotion Connell. The product concerned 
should not be subject to export control quota ceilings 
which can be reached by existing units in the Industry. 
The intention is that capacity should be created which 
should result in additionality of exports and not mere 
substitution. 

3. Minimum value added content of 20% or more 
will be necessary for production of such a unit. 
Domestically procured raw materials shall be treated 
as Imports for computation of value added. 

4 . While approving such a unit the additional emp¬ 
loyment which would be generated by the proposed 
unit would also be taken Into consideration. 

3. An Illustrative list of industries which may be 
considered under the scheme is annexed. 

6. All the units intending to set np Industries under 
the scheme shall make applications to he Secretariat 
for Industrial Approvals. Ministry of Industry. Depart¬ 
ment of Industrial Development, Udyog Bhavan, New 
Delhi in the relevant IL/FC forms super-imposed 
with fhe words “100% expor oriented industry’'. 
Those applications will be considered by s Board 
headed bv the Commerce Secretary 


7. A unit approved by the Board shall be governed 
broadly by the following terms and conditions :— 

(i) The unit shall undertake to manufacture in 
bond and to export its entire production foi a 
period of 10 years ordinarily and 5 years in 
the case of products having high degree of 
technological change. The customs autho¬ 
rities shall provide bond facilities to such 
units wherever located. 

(ii) Import of Capital Goods, components, raw 
materials, spares, consumables, office equip¬ 
ments, material handling equipments, such 
as fork-lifts, over-head cranes including con¬ 
struction materials shall be exempt from 
import duty. 

(Hi) No export benefits like cash assistance ? reple¬ 
nishment licences would be admissible on 
these exports. 

(iv) Impprt of capital goods, components, raw 
material and consumables, as required will be 
permitted. 

(v) Imports of necessary capital goods shall be 
allowed against free foreign exchange or bila¬ 
teral credits in such a way that tho cost of 
units is not unduly raised, 

(vf) Foreign collaboration may be permitted aa 
merits of each case, 

(vit) The conditions for dilution of foreign equity 
as stipulated in the Department of Economic 
Affairs Press Note of 19th February, 1972, 
will not be enforced in 100% export oriented 
cases. 

(vlti) So as to keep rate* of return on export pro 
ductlon competitive, exporting units Includ¬ 
ing large Houses/MRTP units may be per 
mitted to borrow from financial institutions 
at normal debt/eqnity ratio. 

(ix) Indigenously available capital good*, com¬ 
ponents and raw materials will be, allowed 
witbont payment of Central Excise dwt*. 

r x) Refect* nn to 3% or nercenbire nt m*r 
be fixed by the Board may be allowed to be 



uftt Tf tpstto: trerffi^r 




i) 


343 


ANNEXURE I TO APPENDIX 23— Conid. 


•oid to the domcetuj tanfl arcs oa payment of 
customs duty on imported input* and cemttii 
exciie duty on the indigenous inputs and also 
wnfral excite duty r» the rcj«K or xn 
amouti* equal to >!> aggritfim* of such 
duties. 

(x<) Time phasini for .achieving 100% export* 
may be considered on merits. However in 
such cases exports shall have to be at least 
three fourths or more of the production. 

(xii) The gestation period for achie/ing export 
targets shall not be more than two years and 
the period of export obligation in terms of 
the approval shall commence after the gesta¬ 
tion period. 

(xiti ) The condition of export obligation shall be 
subject to review by the Board and the 
question whether the unit can be allowed to 
be debonded after completion of export obli¬ 
gation period and thereafter allowed to pro¬ 
duce for domestic market shall be decided In 
the light of industrial poliev in force at that 
time, equity participation, indigenous capa¬ 
city and protection to small scale industry. 

(xtv) On debonding after the period of export, 
duties shall be leviable «s follow* — 

(q) customs duty a* capital goods on the 
depreciated value but at rates prevalent 
at the time of Import; 

ib) Customs dvty on unused mported raw 
materials and components on value at 
the time of import and at rate* in force 
at the time of clearances; and 

(e) fn respect of excisable goods, uuase dntv 
to be levied without depreciation and at 
rate attracted at the time of clearance. 

(xv) An application made for industrial licence, 
to the Secretariat for Industrial Approvals 
•hall be treated as an application under the 
MRTP Act, 1969 and simultaneous action 
shall be taken to process the same so that a 
■ingle point clearance is given 'V the Board. 

(xvi) If any unit approved onder this scheme Is 
unable for any reasons, to fulfil its export 
or other obligations undeT *his scheme, the 
Board will review the circumstances of that 
unit and recommend the future course of 
action to be taken In regard to that nnit. 

frvtfl The units which are approved for these 
snecial facilities would have to execute 
Bond/legal undertakinc with the CCI&E 
and in case of failure to fulfil their obliga¬ 
tions, they would be liable to penalty In 
terms of such bond/legal undertaklnr 
besides the penalty, If any, under the Tm- 
nort Trade Control Regulations 


(ivtii) Import of samples /prototypes not exceeding 
two in number of each type of sample shaft 
be exempt from import duty. 

(xix) Tmpori of drawings, blue pnu{b, technical 
maps and charts shall be exempt from Im¬ 
port duty. 

(xx) Finished products shall be exempt from 
excise and other central levies. 

(xxi) The unit can supply upto 25% of its output 
in the home market provided it is consistent 
with the import policy, and subject to 
licences and payment of import duties on 

the goods, 

(xxii) Material handling equipments, such as 
fork-lift, over-head cranes and building con¬ 
struction materials, spares, consumables, if 
supplied to 100% Export Oriented Units 
by units in the domestic tariff area, shall be 
treated as ‘Deemed exports’. 

(xxiii) The unit can sell its products to domestic 
projects under global tender conditions. 

(xxiv) Supplies made by units in the domestic tariff 
area shall be exempt from payment of Cen¬ 
tral Sales Tax. 

(xxv) If any unit approved under this scheme 
wants to take on rent or on lease machinery 
(either from a foreign country or from 
indigenous sources) to be utilised in the 
bonded premises for producing goods for 
exports, and then to re-export or dispose 
of the machinery after the same has outlived 
its utility, it may apply to the concerned 
administrative Ministry/Department along 
with relevant details, with a copy to the 
Ministry of Commerce (Export Production 
Section), the DGTD or the technical au¬ 
thorities concerned. Such requests may be 
permitted on merits of each case, 

Mf- 

(K. PRAKASH ANAND) 

It. Secretary 
to the Government of India 

ORDER 

Ordered that the Resolution be published in the 

Gazette of India and a copy thereof communicated to 

all concerned and given wide publicity. 


<K. PRAKASH ANAND; 

Jt. Secretary 
to the Government of India 



344 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part 1—Sec. 1] 


ANNEX LIRE I TO APPENDIX 23 —Conul. 

Annexure to the Ministry of Commerce Resolution 

(Para 5) 

Illustrative Mst of products which would toe eligible 
lor special facilities on the pound ol 100% exports. 


1. Engineering goods :— 

1.1 Engineering goods (excluding prime and non- 
ferrous metals). 

1.2 Electronics products including electronic soft 

ware. 

2. Chemicals Plastics and allied products, namely :— 

(a) Inorganic chemicals, organic chemicals & mis¬ 
cellaneous chemicals. 

(h) Drugs and drugs Intermediates including 
crude drugs. 

(c) Dyes and dye intermediates, 

(d) Toiletries and perfumeries (excluding pro¬ 
cessed talc). 

(*) Paints and allied products. 

(/) Safety matches, fireworks, explosives and 
detonators. 

(g) Ceramic products. 

(h) Glass and glassware. 

(/) Wood products and processed wood. 

(0 Asbestos, cement including clinkers and 
cement products. 

(it) Rubber manufactures. 

(l) Paper, Paper products and stationery. 

(m) Pesticides and preservatives. 

(n) Agarbattis. 

2.2 Culinary oleo resins. 

2.3 Refractories. 

2.4 Plastlci and Linoleum products. 

3. Furniture. 


4. Leather and Sports Goods : — 

4.1 Finished leather and leather manufactures 
including footwear and paint brushes, 

4.2 Sports goods. 

5. Food, Agriculture and forest products :— 

5.1 Canned and frozen marine products. 

5.2 Processed foods, fruits, vegetables and alcoholic 
and soft beverages. 

5.3 Meat and allied products. 

5.4 Packaged tea i.e. tea packed in consumer 

packs of a size upto 1 kg. and instant tea. 

5.5 Instant and packaged ground ooffee. 

5.6 Tobacco manufactures. 

5.7 Deoiled rice bran and cotton seed cakes, Sal 

seed fats and animal foods. 

5.8 Mango Kernel Extraction and mango kernel 

oil. 

6. Textiles 

1. Carpets. 

2. Readymade garments, knitwear, made-up arti¬ 

cles. 

3. Rubberised coir and curled coir. 

4. Khadl. 

5. Natural silk fabrics, garment* and made-op 

article*. 

6. Hosiery. 

7. Handloom fabrics made up articles and garment!, 

7. Miscellaneous :— 

1. Handicrafts. 

2. Silver and Gold Jewellery, 

3. Fabricated mica. 



[tm I—*tt i] 


vjm tt rnntn : wtokt 


345 


ANNEXURE II TO APPENDIX 23 

(COPY OF OPEN GENERAL LICENCE FOR 100% EXPORT ORIENTED UNITS) 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 
MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
IMPORT TRADE CONTROL 
ORDER NO, 17/85—88 
New Delhi, the 12th April, 1985 
OPEN GENERAL LICENCE NO. 17/85 

Subject to the following conditions : 


In exercise of the Powers conferred by Section 3 
of the Imports and Exports (Control) Act 1947, 
(18 of 1947), the Central Government hereby gives 
general permission till further orders to the Actual 
Users approved by the Government as 100% export 
oriented units for the import of : 

(1) Capital Goods (whether new or second¬ 
hand) including Generating sets; 

(2) Prototype and technical samples not exceed¬ 
ing two in number of each type for pro¬ 
duct diversification or development or 
evaluation ; 

(3) Raw materials, components, consumables 
and intermediates ; 

(4) Spares ; 

(5) Packing materials ; 

(6) Material handling equipments like Fork 
lifts, Overhead Cranes (for initial setting 
up of the unit only), and building construc¬ 
tion materials ; 

(7) (a) One number each of the following for 

its own production/use or product diversi¬ 
fication or development or evaluation : 

(i) EIcctrlc/Electronic typewriter. 

(ii) Electrically operated calculating 
machine. 

(iii) Photocopying machine. 

(iv) Dictation Tape Recorder. 

(v) Teleprinter, if cleared by Ministry of 

Communications 

(vi) PBXJPABX including electronically 

operated PBX|PABX, 

(b) Photocoping paper, calculating machine, 
paper rolls, toner and dispersant for photo¬ 
copying purposes, spares of the machines 
from (i) to (vi) in 7(a) above and con¬ 
sumable tools required for these machines 
for a value not exceeding Rs 5000 per 
year; 


(a) Import shall be subject to actual user 
conditions. 


(b) the goods shall be imported in customs 
bonded factory. 

(c) the unit shall comply with all the conditions 
subject to which payment of Customs duty 
on the imported materials is exempt; 

(d) the normal procedure that is applicable for 
Customs bonding will be followed, including 
transit bond for the purpose of goods being 
taken from the port of importation to the 
factory. 

(e) the entire production and operations shall 
be by/under Customs bonded factory. 

(f) Import of items which are banned for import 
in the Domestic Tariff Area under Appen¬ 
dix 2—Part A of this policy will not be 
allowed. 

2. For import of second hand Capital Goods, the 
importer shall produce to the customs authority at 
the time of clearance, a certificate from a professional 
independent Chartered Engineer|any equivalent insti¬ 
tute in the country from which import is made indi¬ 
cating — - i , jj 

(a) Name of manufacturer of the plant and 

machinery ; 

(b) Year of manufacture; 

(c) Present condition of the plant and machinery 

and its expected residual life (Import of 
machinery having expected resident life of 
less than 5 years and also machinery more 
than 7 years old shall not be allowed). 

(d) The C1F value of equivalent Capital goods, 

if purchased new. 



346 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sic. 1] 


ANNEXURE 11 TO APPENDIX 23—Comet. 


(e) nature of reconditioning/repair done, if any, 
and the date(s) on which these were 
carried out ; and 

(f) opinion regarding the price asked for by 
the suppliers and the basis for such opinion. 

3. On prior clearance of the Export Commissioner 
in the office of the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports, New Delhi, such units may also be allowed 
to import the following :— 

(i) Prototypes and technical samples not cover¬ 
ed by para 1 above. 

(ii) Drawings, blue prints, charts, technical data 
including micro films. 

4. Such units will also ,be allowed to re-import 
after repairs abroad, machinery/equipments exported 
by them for this specific purpose. Any foreign ex¬ 
change payment necessary for this will also be allow¬ 
ed. 

5. The provisions of this Open General Licence will 
also apply for the import of Capital Goods (whether 
new or second hand) by industrial units exporting 
100% of their production already, at least during the 
previous three financial years, but not approved as 


such by Government under the scheme 100% export 
oriented units, on payment of customs duty as may be 
leviable, subject to the following condition. 1 :— 

(i) The importer shall produce at the time of 
clearance through customs, the certificate 
referred to in clause (2) above, when 
importing second hand Capital Goods. 

(ii) At the time of clearance through customs, 
the imnoi lei shall produce Export 
Performance Certificate obtained from the 
Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 
New Delhi, in accordance with the proce¬ 
dures laid down in the relevant impori 
policy, as an evidence of having exported 
100% of its production in the prevn.u' 
three financial years, 

(iii) The importer should also give a declaration 
to the effect that the urn port of capital goods 
under this provision will not result tn 
exceeding (us licensed approved capacity. 

(iv) The import shall be subiect to Actual User 
condition. 

6. This licence is in supersession of the Ministry 
of Commerce Import Trade Control Order No. 18| 
84 dated the 12th April, 1984. 


Copy to all concerned : 
By order etc., 


V* 

(P. C. JAIN) 

Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 


Sd/- 

(O. P. GAHROTRA), 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports end Exports 
[(Issued from File No. I/2/74-EPC(Vol. XII)] 


[*rm i—i] 


TRTCT °f>T 


347 


APPENDIX—24 
(Para 220 of Chapter XIV) 

EXPORT OF NEW PRODUCTS OR TO NEW MARKETS 
I. NEW MARKETS. 


SI. Description of Export Product New markets Date from which 

No. effective 


1 

2 

3 



ENGINEERING GOODS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP i A. 


1. 

Textile Machinery 

Kuwait Zambia, France. 

1-4-1983 

2. 

Sugar Mill Machinery 

Nepal, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Uganda, Zambia, 
Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Qermany, 
U.K., USSR, USA. 

as 

3. 

Cement Mill Machinery . 

Malaysia, Srilanka. Iran, Kenya Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia, 
Algeria, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Germany, U.K., 
USSR, USA. 

M 

4. 

Boilers .... 

ndonesia, Srilanka, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Zambia, France. 

90 

5. 

Chemica 1 Plant . . . 

Nepal, Uganda, Algeria, France, U.K. 

a* 

6. 

Food Processing Machinery 

Iraq, Kuwait. Saudi Arabia, UAE, Algeria, Egypt, France, Federal 
Republic of Germany, U.K., USA. 

f* 

7. 

Heating & cooling Equip¬ 
ment 

Uganda, Zambia, Algeria Franee, Federal Republic of Germany, 
U.K., USSR. 

• • 

8. 

Industrial Machlnery(others) 

Algeria, France. 

«* 

9 

Transmission Lino Towers . 

Bangladesh, Kuwait, Uganda. Zambia, Algeria. Franoe, Federal 
Republic of Germany, U.K., USSR, USA. 

a* 

10. 

Steel Structures Fabricated 

Uganda, Zambia, Algeria, France, Federal Republic of Germany, 


II. 

Electric Wires A Gables 

Saudi Arabia, Tanzania, Uganda, Algeria, Bgypt, Franoe, Federal 
Republic of Oennany, U.K., USA. 

«* 

12. 

Wagon A Gonobos 

(ndonesia, Malaysia, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, GAB, Tanzania, 
Algeria. Franee, Federal Republlo of Germany, U.C., USSR, 
USA 


15. 

Machine Tools 

Vgoods 

rl 

14. 

Stoel Pipes 

Algeria. Franee. USSR. 

n 

lfl 

Sanitary Castings 

Algeria. Pranse. 

wt 

16. 

Bicycles A Ports 

Kuwait, Algeria 

09 

17. 

Hand, Small A Gutting 
Tool* 

Uganda, Algeria. 

99 

18. 

Diesel Engines A Air Com¬ 
pressors 

Algeria 

99 

19. 

Mechanical Pumps 

Uganda. Algeria. 

09 

20 

riectric Fans 

Indonesia, Uganda, flambla. Algeria, Praoee, Federal Republls 
of Germany, USSR. 

H 

21. 

Batteries .... 

Indonesia, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kenya, Uganda, Algeria. 

99 




348 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY [Past I— Sec. 1] 




APPENDIX 24— contd. 


SI. 

No. 

Description of Export Product 

New Markets 

Date from 
which effective 

1 

2 

3 

4 

CHEMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : B 


1 . 

Paints, varnishes & enamels (ex. Super 
synethetic enamels based on Polyster). 

All countries except USSR, Nepal, S. Yemen, Saudi 
Arabia, UAE. 

1-4-1983 

2. 

Lacquers including Nitro Cellulose 
Lacquers. 

All countries. 

9* 

3. 

Super Synthetic enamels based on poly- 

All countries except USSR. 



ster. 


4. Distempers including Cement paints 

5. (i) Napthanate driers. 

(ii) Octoate driers 

6. Prussian Blue. 

7. Rubbing compounds 

8. Wax Polish 

9. Poster colours including artist colours 

10. Leather Pigment finishes 

11. Fireworks 

12. Artificial Teeth (porcelain type) 

13. Clinical Thermometers & Wall Thermo¬ 
meters. 

14. Decorative wooden picture frame 
sticks/frames 

15. Fibre-boards (hard board, insulation 
board & accoustic tiles), Particle board 
(veneered & unveneered & moulded 
particle board), and compreg, laminated 
timber & densifled wood. 

16. Foam rubber & sponge rubber & Pro¬ 
ducts thereof. 

17. Oil resistant hoses 

18. Paper based transfers, plain or printed 

19. Fountain pen Ink, Typewriter ribbon ink 

(i) Ink Pads, correcting fluids, masking 
caps, blotting pads. 

(ii) Pencils, Lead slips for pencils J 


All countries. 


20. Synthetic resins and adhesives based on All countries except Bahrain, Indonesia, Singapore, 
synthetic resins & synthetic hardeners. UAE. 


21. Chrome pigments. 

22. Ultramrine Blue 

23. Aluminium powder & paste 

24. Zinc Oxide 

25. Inorganic Pigments N.O.S. 

26. Printers ink. 


All countries except USSR, Australia, Egypt, S. Yemen, 
Saudi Arabia, Hongkong, Singapore, Sri Lanka, 
Thailand, UK, Kenya. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Singapore, 
Australia, Thailand, Egypt. 

All countries except Sri Lanka, Thailand USA. 

All countries except Sri Lanka, Thailand, USA. 

All countries except Philippines, Kuwait, Kenya, 
UK, UAE, Saudi Arabia. 

All countrios except Bangladesh. 


ft 







[htt I—l] 


*TK!T Tt WW: *TalHK u l 


349 


APPENDIX 24 —Contd. 


Boot Polish 
Safety matches 

Detonators/Denonating fuse 
Safety Fuse 
Glazed tiles 
Insulators 

Spray dried Kaolin or China Clay 
Crockery 

Sanitary wares 

Mosaic Terazo tiles 

Vacuum Flasks & Insulated ware 

Flat Glass including Sheet figured & 
wired glass 

Glass vials 

Glass Beads & False pearls 
Glass & Glassware N.O.S. 


Opthalmlc fused blanks & lenses 

Asbestos Products & asbestos Cement 
products 

Plywood & plywood Products inch 
flush doors 

Bicycle tyres & tubes excl. tubes of 
butyle rubber 

Rubber aprons & cots 

Rubber Hoses (other than oil resistant 
hoses) & beltings 

Rubber & canvas footwear 
Surgical & Medical app. of rubber 

Automobile tyres & tubes ex. tubes of 
butyle rubber) 

Auto & bicycle tubes of butyle rubber 
Rubber manufactured products n.o.s. 
Tissue paper, incl. cigarette tissue paper 
Books all types 

Newspapers, Journals & Periodicals 
Abrasive Lapping powder, all types 
Fire Hoses 


All countries except USSR. 

All countries except Sri Lanka, Nepal, Oman. 

^ All countries except Nepal, Jordan, Singapore. 

All countries except USSR. 

All countries except Sri Lanka, Phillippines, Bangladesh. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Japan. 

All countries except USSR, UK, Canada, Nether¬ 
lands. 

All countries except Mauritius, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Egypt, Nepal, Sri Lanka, S. Yemen. 

All countries except Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi 
Arabia, UAE, S« Yemen. 

All countries except USSR, Belgium, W. Germany, 
Sweden, Switzerland. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Iran, Kenya, Oman, 
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, S. Yemen, UAE, 
Indonesia, Sri Lanka, USA. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Egypt, Kenya, 
Indonesia, Philippines, Thailand. 

All countries except Saudi Arabia, USA, Italy, Algeria. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Bahrain, Kuwait, 
Kenya, Nepal, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Australia, 
Sri Lanka, Singapore, Somalia, S. Yemen, UAE, 

All countries except UAE, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Sri 
Lanka, Kenya, Egypt, Yemen. 

All countries except Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Oman, 
Saudi Arabia, UAE, S. Yemen. 

All countries except Hongkong, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, 
Sri Lanka, Oman, UK, USA. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Nepal, UK, Denmark, 
Italy. 

All countries except Egypt, W. Germany, Indonesia, 
Switzerland, Thailand. 

All countries except USSR, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Syria, 
Philippines, Egypt, Nigeria, Iraq. 

All countries except UK, Nepal. 

All countries except UK, Nepal. 

\ A11 countries except USA, USSR, Bangladesh, UK, 
Nepal. 

J 

All countries except Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, UAE, 
AU countries except Nepal, Bangladesh. 

1 All countries except Bangladesh, Egypt, W. Germany, 
jt Malaysia,Nepal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, UK, USA, 

J UAE, Nigeria, Kenya, Kuwait. 

All countries except Japan, Norway, Sri Lanka, W. 
Germany, Taiwan, Australia. 

All countries except Bangladesh. 


1-4-1983 


350 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 




APPENDIX 24 — Contd. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

58. 

Borax .... 

Saudi Arabia, UK, UAE, Netherlands, Burma. 

1-4-1984 

59. 

Boric Acid 

Kenya, USA, Iran, Japan. 

- 

60. 

Copper Sulphate 

UAE, YAR, Kenya, Mauritius. 

»/ 

61. 

Bleaching Powder 

West Germany, Seychelles, Burma. Ethiopia, Finland, Iran, 
Thailand, Tanzania, 

ft 

62. 

Hydrochloric Acid 

Bahrain, Kenya, Iran, Nigeria, Qatar, Iraq. 

rt 

63. 

Sulphuric Acid 

Kenya, Finland, Muscat, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, UAE. 

ft 

64. 

Alums .... 

Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Iran, UAE. 

ft 

65. 

Aluminium Sulphate . 

Mauritius, Hong Kong, Bangladesh, Iran, Iraq. 

ft 

66. 

Potassium Permanganate . 

Iran, Members of E.E.C., Japan. 

ft 

67. 

Aluminium Chloride 

UAE, Kenya, Japan, Bangladesh. 

it 

68. 

Rubber Chemicals 

Ghana, Belgium, Singapore, 'Tanzania, Zambia. 

ft 

69. 

Textile Auxilaries 

Bangladesh, USA, Singapore, Lan, Japan. 

ft 

70. 

Carbon Black . 

UK, Vietnam, Kedya, Bangladesh, Japan, Indonesia, Korea, 
Malaysia, Thailand. 


7 J. 

Foundary Fluxes 

Philippines. 

ft 

72. 

Acetic Acid 

Sri Lanka, USA, UK. 

*t 

Drug! & Drugs Intermediates i 



73. 

Bcrbeiine Hydrochloride 

France, Korea, China, USA. 

ts 

74. 

Salt & other derivative of 
Emetine 

USSR, Indonesia. 

ft 

7?. 

Strychnine Alkalolds/Salta . 

Aden, Ireland, Iran, Argentina, Spain. 

■j 

76. 

(ji) Patent & Proprietory 
Medicines 

Iran, Hong Kong, Italy, Nepal, Bahrain, Botswana. 



(ii) Veterinary Drugs 

U.K. 

1-4-1985 

77. 

Other Medicaments . 

Australia, Afghanistan, Austria, Nepal, Bangla Desh, Bulgaria, 
UAE, Sweden, New Zealand, Thailand, Spain, Mauritius, 
Taiwan, Australia, Bahrain. 

1-4-1984 

78. Potassium Citrate 

Singapore, Bangla Desh, Kenya, Malaysia. 

ft 

79. 

Dl'lodohydroxyquinollne/ . 
Iodohydroxy-quinoline 

Australia, Indonesia, Muscat, Pakistan, Thailand. 

ft 



fwT'M — 1 ] wrnr «FfT 351 




APPENDIX 24 —Contd. 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

4 

80. 

Beta Ionone 

Switzerland, France, Ireland. 

1-4-1984 

81. 

Papaim Pure . 

Thailand, Singapore, Denmark, Indonesia, France, Ireland. 

It 

82. 

Aluminium Hydroxide 

Thailand, Bangla Desh, Japan, Iran, Malaysia, Pakistan. 

If 

83. 

Potassium Iodide 

Sri Lanka, UK, USA, Singapore, Turkey. 

M 

84. 

Hydrogen Peroxide . 

Bangla Desh, Malawi, Pakistan. 

?» 

85. 

Empty Gelatine Capsules 

Bangladesh, Singapore, Thailand. 

If 

86. 

Paracetamol 

Ghana, Singapore. 

MB 

87. 

Thiacetazone . 

Bangla Desh. 

MB 

88. 

Ayurvedic & Unani Medi¬ 
cines. 

Muscat, UAE, Fiji, Afghanistan, Burma, France, Canada, Iraq, 
Nepal, Mauritius, Denmark, Tanzania, Zambia, W. Germany, 
Italy, Aden, Kuwait, U.K., Mozambique, Saudi Arabia, Spain. 

l» 

Dyes & Dye Intermediates ; 




Synthetic Organic dyes including Organic pigments. 


89. 

Acid Dyes 

Belgium, Aden, Singapore, Ethiopia, Denmark, Bangla Desh, Nepal. 

» 

90. 

Basic Dyes 

Australia, China, Spain, Belgium, Fiji, UAE, Iran, Japan, Korea, 
Muscat, New Zealand, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia, 
Taiwan, YAR, France. 

If 

91. 

7 

Direct Dyes . 

France, Philippines, UAE, Taiwan, Yogoslavia, Turkey, Korea, 
Iran. 

If 

92. 

Organic Pigments 

Belgium, Greece, Japan, Muscat, UAG, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, 
Spain, YAR. 

If 

93. 

Reactive Dyes 

Iran, Tanzania, Taiwan, West Indies, China, Greece, Spain. 

• I 

94. 

Azoic Dyes 

Hong Kong, Argentina, Switzerland, New Zealand. 

>P 

95. 

Vat Dyes . . 

Hong Kong, Italy, Muscat, USSR, China, Philippines, France. 

9 9 

96. 

Synthetic Coal Tar Dyes . 

Bahrain, Liberia, Mauritius, Qatar, Sweeden, USA. 

>1 

Dye Intermediate : 



97. 

Fluorescent Brightening 
Agent. 

Muscat, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Philippines. 

If 

9fc. 

II. Acid . 

USA, Sri Lanka. 

II 

99. 

Aathraqumone 

UK, ARE, Australia, Canada, Singapore. 

M 

100. 

Oeuzanthrone . 

Italy, Iraq, USA, 

f# 

lot 

i a e 1 aier ueJiafos o.c.s. 

Argentina, Canada, France, W. Germany, Kenya, Sri Lanka, 
Tanzania. 

If 

Pesticides and l ormulatlons 



102. 

Zinc Phospides 

Lebanon, Syria, Sudan, Phillippines, Indonesia. 

• P 

103. 

Insecticides/Pestici d eb 

Iian. Maiavsia, USSR, Taiwan, Burma, Ethiopia, China, UK, 
Maxico, Romariia' 

f* 



352 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I —Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 24— Contd. 


(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

4 

Toiletries & Perfumeries 



104. 

Agarbattis 

Congo, Taiwan, Lebanon, Iran, Phillippines, Zaire, Ivory Coast, 
Finland, Afghanistan, Benin, Gebralter, Hungary, Sierraleon. 

1-4-1984 

105. 

Medicated Soaps 

Nigeria, Tunisia, Zaire. 

ft 

106. 

Synthetic Detergents 

Algeria, Mauritius, Ethiopia, Zambia. 

H 

107. 

Scourding Powder . 

Ethiopia, Mauritius. 

f» 

108. 

Perfumery and Attars 

Taiwan, Ethiopia, Philippines, Italy, Fiji, Nigeria, Indonesia, 
Brazil. 

rl 

109. 

Hair Oils 

Taiwan, Somalia, Syria, Australia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Aden, Tan¬ 
zania. 

ft 

Cosmetics & Toiletries : 



110. 

Hair Shampoos 

Singapore, UAE, Bahrain, Muscat. 

ft 

111. 

Powder Face . 

Bulgaria, Singapore, Japan, UAE, Hungary, USSR, Mauri¬ 
tius, Saudi Arabia. 

ft 

112. 

Powder Talcum 

Taiwan, Sweeden, Sri Lanka, ARE, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, 
Canada, Iraq, Romania. 

f f 

113. 

Tooth Paste . 

Singapore, Taiwan, UK, Kuwait, Hungary. 

*> 

114. 

Lipsticks . . . 

Zaire, Syria, Hungary, Italy, 

ft 

115. 

Toilet Soaps . 

Qatar, Afghanistan, Zaire, Hungary, Nepal. 


116. 

Soaps Others . 

Sri Lanka, W. Germany, Saudi Arabia, Zambia, Ethiopia, 
Maldives. 

09 

117. 

Hydrogenated Castor Oil 

Hong Kong, ARE, Bulgaria. 

it 

118. 

Dehydrated Castor Oil . 

Canada, Italy, USSR, China, France. 

9* 

119. 

Fatty Acid 

Mauritius, Canada. 

i* * 

120. 

Essential Oils N.E.S. 

UK, Sudan, Fjji, Switzerland. 

If 




t*rm I—sfr 1 ] 


»rmnTTTrsrew: h«hjk«i 


353 



APPENDIX 24— Contd. 


1 2 

3 

4 

PLASTIC PRODUCT COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : C 

Raw Materials 


1. Polyethylene Moulding 

Powder (LDPE and HDPE). 

All countries except Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka. 

1-4-1983 

2, Polystyrene Moulding 
Powder (Impact Grade). 

All countries except Sri Lanka. 


3. PVC Compound (Rigid) 

All countries except Zambia. 

l» 

4. Phenol Formaldehyde 
Moulding Powder 

All countries except Sri Lanka. 

>* 

5. Urea Formaldehyde 

Moulding Powder 

All countries. 

t • 


Manufactures : (Processed Goods) 

1. Expanded Polystyrene All countries except Bangladesh, Burma, FFE(I), Saudi Arabia, 

Products 

2. Fountain Pens, Ball point All countries except Abu Dhabi, Argentina, Africa (Rest of). 

Pens, Sign Pens, Fibre Tip Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Bangladesh, Canada, Dubai, 
Pens, etc. Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, FFE(I), Finland, Greece, Hongkong, 

Hungary, FRG (W. Germany), Israel, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, 
Italy, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mauritius, 
Muscat, Oman, Netherlands, Nigeria, Pakistan, Philippines. 
PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, 
Somalia, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Surinam, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, 
Tanzania, UK, USA, USSR, Venezuela, W. Indies, Yugos¬ 
lavia, YAR, Zambia. 


3. Glass Fibre Reinforced All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bangladesh, Burma, Bahrain, 
Polyesters and Manufactures Canada, Dubai, FRG, Iran, Italy, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, 
including Helmets and Epoxy Malaysia, Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Nigeria, Nepal, Nether- 
Resin Pipes. lands, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, 

Thailand, UK, USA, Zambia. 


4. Laminates (Phenolic All countries except Afghanistan, Africa (Rest of), Australia, 

Melamine) Algeria, Bahrain, Belgium, Bangladesh, Canada, Denmark, 

Dubai, Djibouti, Ethiopia, France, Fyi, FRG, Ghana, Hong¬ 
kong, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, Malawi, 
Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Netherlands, Nepal, Norway, 
Pakistan, PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Singapore, Somalia, 1 Sri Lanka, 
Seychelles, Sweden, Tanzania, Thailand, Taiwan, UK, USA. 
Zambia. 






3. Plastic Bangles (with or All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan, Africa (Rest of), 
without embellishment). Australia, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Dubai, Djibouti, 

Egypt, Fyi, France, FRG, Hongkong, Italy, Japan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Liberia, Malaysia, Malawi, Mauritius, Maldives, 
Muscat & Oman, New Zealand, Nigeria Pakistan, PDRY 
(Aden), Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Spain, Sudan, 
Surinam. Switzerland, Tanzania, Tunisia, UK, USA, W, 
Indies, YAR. 

i. Plastic Denture Material All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bangladesh, Hongkong, Kuwait, 
and Dental Products. Kenya, Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, 

Thailand. 




354 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Pam I—Sic. 1] 



APPENDIX 24— Contd. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


7. Plastic Electrical Accessories 
with/without metallic compo¬ 
nents (including Polyethylene, 
Melamine Formaldehyde 
Electrical Accessories). 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Australia, Afghanistan, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Burma, Canada, Cyprus, Dubai, Djibouti, France, 
Egypt, FRG, Fiji, Ghana, Greece, Hongkong, Indonesia, Iran, 
Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, 
Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Muscat A Oman, Nigeria, Pakistan. * 
PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Singapore,|Somalia, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syria, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, UK. 
USA, W. Indies, YAR. 


14-1983 


8. Plastic Imitation Jewollery All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Argentina, 

Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, 
Cameroon, Canada, Denmark, Dubai, Djibouti, Ethiopia 
Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, FRG, Greece, Hongkong, Iceland, 
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Liberia, Malaysia, Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, Mozambique, 
Muscat A Oman, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Qatar, 
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Surinam, Sweden, Sri 
Lanka, Switzerland, Sudan, Tanzania, Tunisia, UK, USA, 
W. Indies, Yugoslavia, YAR. 


9. Hand Bags, Purses A other All countries except Abu Dhabi, Austria, Algeria, Australia, 
PVC Fabricated Goods. Bahrain, Belgium, Bangladesh, Bhutan. Canada, Dubai, Ethio¬ 

pia, Fiji, France, FRG, Greece, Indonesia, Italy, Iraq, Japan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, Malawi, Mauritius, Muscat A 
Oman, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, 
Qatar. Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore, Sri Lanka, UK, 
USA. YAR, Zaire, Zambia. 


10. Plastic Moulded & bitruded All countries except Abu Dhabi, Aignamstap, Africa (Rest of). 
Goods Austria, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, Bangladesh, BaruncU, 

Burma. Cameroon, Canada, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, 
Malaysia, Malawi, Malta, Maldives. Mauritius, Morocco, 
Muscat A Oman, Mozambique, Netherlands, Nigeria, Nepal, 
New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, PDRY (Aden), Qatar. 
Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Singapore. Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka. 
Sudan, Surinam, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan, Tanzania 
Thailand, UK. USA, USSR, W. Inches YAR, Yugoslavia 
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Djibouti, Dubai, Ethiopia. 
Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, FRG, FFEt I ■, Ghana, 
Greece, Guyana, Hongkong, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq 
Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon. 
Libya, Liberia. 


11. Ropes/Twlnes/Bristles/ 
■trapping 


All countries except Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Dubai, 
FFE(I), Muscat A Oman, Nigeria, Quatar, Seychelles, Singa¬ 
pore, Sri Lanka, USA, USSR. 


11. lahool A Mae Itailoaary All soon tries except Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Dubai FRG, Hungary 

Iran, Iraq, Kenya, Kuwait Libya, Msucat A Oman, Mauritius, 
PDRY (Aden) Qatar, Saudi Arabia. Seychelles Singapore, 
Sweden. 


13. Plastle Moulded Luggage All countries except Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, 

Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Dahomey, Djibouti, Dubai, France, 
FRG, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Muscat A Oman, Norway, 
Philippines, Qatar, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri 
Lanka, Sweden, UK, USA, USSR, Yogoslavia. 



[itpt l—air 1] 


nrrer Ttvsimi: unroroii 


355 


APPENDIX 24— Contd. 


1 


14. PVC Gramaphone Record 
& Accessories & Recorded 
Cassettes, Video Cassettes. 


15. Pre-recorded Cassettes . 


16. Video Cassettes 

*r 

17. PVC Pipes and Specials 


18. PVC Foam Products 

19. Vaccum Formed Products 

20. Polyethylene Films and Bags 


21. HDPE Woven Sacks 


22. Polyethylene Rigid A 
Flexible Pipes & Conduits 


23. Metallised Plastics 


24. Spectacles Frames 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, 
Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Canada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dahomey, Dubai, Ethiopia, 
Egypt, Fiji, France, FRG, Finland, Goana, Guyana, GDR, 
Hongkong, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Japan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Libya, Liberia, Malaysia, Mauritius, Morocco, 
Muscat & Oman, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Phillip- 
pines,Poland, Qatar, Rumania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, 
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Surinam, Sweden, Switzerland, 
Tanzania, Thailand, UK, USA, USSR, Venezuela, W. Indies, 
Yogoslavia, FFE(I), Zambia. 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Australia, 
Bahrain, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Denmark, Dubai, Fiji, Finland, France, FRG, Guana, Ghana, 
Hongkong, Hungary, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
Malaysia, Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Phillippines, Poland, Qatar, Saudi 
Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Surinam, Sweden, Switzer¬ 
land, UK, USA, USSR, W. indies, Zambia 

All countries except Canada Dubai, Hongkong, Muscat A Oman, 
UK, USA, Saudi Arabia 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Uurma 
Burundi, Dubai, Djibouti, FFE(I), Ghana, Greece, Hongkong 
Iran, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Libya, Liberia, Malaysia. 
Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Nepal, Netherlands, Pakistan, 
PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Sri 
Lanka. Tanzania, UK, USSR, W. Indies, YAR. 

All countries except Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka. 

All countries except Sri Lanka. 

All counfries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Bharain, Bangla¬ 
desh, Dubai, Djibouti, Ethiopia, FFE(I), Hongkong, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Mauritius, Morocco, Muscat & Oman, Nepal, Nether¬ 
lands, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka. Singapore, Somalia, 
Tanzania, UK, USA. 

All countries except Dubai, France, FRG, Iraq, Kuwait, Mauri¬ 
tius, Netherlands PDRY (Aden), Saudi Arabia, Tanzania, 
Thailand, USA. 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bhutan, 
Burma, Dubai, FFEH), FRG, Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, Muscat 
& Oman, Nepal, Sudan, Sri Lanlca, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, 
Tanzania. 

All countries except Australia, FIJI, Goyana, Malaysia, Mauritius, 
Muscat & Oman, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, 
Syria, UK, USA, YAR. 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Austria, Afghanistan, Africa 

E est of), Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Botswana 
A.) Czechoslovakia, Canada, Cameroon, Djibouti, Dubai, 
biopla, Egypt, FIJI, Finland. France, FRG, Ghana, Hong 
Kong, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, 
Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Malaysia, Malta, 
Mozambique, Malawi, Mauritius, Morocco, Muscat & Oman, 
Nigeria, Philippines, PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, 
Seychelles ‘Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, 
Switzerland, Sudan, Surinam, Syria, Tanzania, Thailand, UK, 
USA, USSR, Uganda, Yugoslavia, YAR, Zaire, Zambia, 
Zimbabwe, 


1-4-1983 





356 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I—Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 24 —Contd. 


1 2 


3 


25. PVC Foam Leather Cloth 


26. PVC Leather Cloth 


27. Rigid PVC Sheets . 

28. PVC Sheeting 


29. Asbestos Floor Tiles 


30. Linoleums (Felt/Jute Based) 


31. Polyethylene/Jute 
Combination. 

32. Plastic Brushes . 


33. Plastic Adhesive Tapes 

34. Polyurethane Foam & 
its Products 

35. Nitro Cellulose Cloth 


36. Acrylic Sheets . 

37. Polyethylene Coated 
Fabric/Paper 

38. Friction Dust (Phonollc 
based Polymer) . 

39. Metallised Lacquered 

Polyester Film 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Bahrain, Bangla¬ 
desh, Cameroon, Dubai, Ghana, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, 
Malwai, Mauritius, Mozambique, Muscat & Oman, Nigeria, 

Qatar, Saudi Arabia,Sri Lanka, Tanzania, UK, YAR. 

All countries except Afghanistan, Africa (Rest of), Australia, 
Bangaldesh, Bahrain, Dubai, Ethiopia, Ghana, HongKong, 
Iraq, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozam¬ 
bique, Muscat & Oman, Nigeria. PDRY (Aden), Pakistan, 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Tanzania, UK, USSR, YAR, Zambia. 

All countries except Sri Lanka, Yugoslavia. 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Afghanistan, Africa (Rest of), 
Australia, Bahrain, Cameroon, Dahomey, Dubai, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Ghana, Hungary, Hong Kong, Iran, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Mauritius, Muscat 
Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, 
PDRY (Aden), Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Tanzania, W. Indies, 
YAR, Zaire, Zambia. 

All countries except Africa (Rest of), Cameroon, Dubai, Ethiopia, 
Ghana, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Qatar, YAR. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Czechoslovakia, Netherlands, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, USSR, Yugoslavia. 

All countries except Australia, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, 
FRG, Kuwait, Netherlands, New Zealand. 

All countries except Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Cyprus, Dubai, Ethiopia, 
Egypt, Fjji, Ghana, Indonesia, Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, 
Malawi, Muscat & Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, 
Seychelles, Sri Lanka, USSR, Zaire, Zambia, 

All countries except Abu Dhabi. Dubai. Kenya, Kuwait, Muscat 
& Oman, Sri Lanka, Saudi Arabia, YAR, Zambia. 

All countries except Kuwait, Mauritius, Nepal. 


All countries except Abu Dhabi, Africa (Rest of), Bahrain, Dubai, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, Muscat & Oman, Qatar, Saudi 
Arabia, Singapore, YAR. 

All countries except Kenya. 

All countries except Bangladesh, Kenya, Sri Lanka, Switzerland. 


All countries except Australia, Denmark, Thailand. 

All countries except Dubai, FRG, Japan, Kuwait, Saudi 
Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Sri Lanka, USA. 


40. Dolls, Toys, Games of all All countries except Abu Dhabi, Australia, Bahrain, Belgium, 
types & Plastic items except Dubai, France, Fiji, Ghana, Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 
those of wood, Paper Machie Malaysia, Mauritius, Muscat & Oman, Nigeria, New Zealand, 

& Rags .... Pakistan, PDRY (Aden), Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, 

Seychelles, Somalia, Spain, Singapore, Sudan, USA, UK, 
USSR, W. Indies, YAR, Zaire, 


41. Acrylic Modified Polyester Struc¬ 
tural Fibre Reinforced Panel All countries except Iraq. 

42. Decorative Textured Coat Tiles All countries except Abu Dhabi, Muscat & Oman, Nepal. 

(a) Stone Finish 

(b) Glass Finish 


1 - 4-1983 


t. 






ft 


*> 


tt 






[RFT I— WT l] 


ntm •TiT tww: wrarw 


35? 


APPENDIX 24— Contd. 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


(*) 


TEXTILE PRODUCTS COVERED 
BY PRODUCT GROUPS ‘K* AND ‘O’ 


1. Handloom Textiles 


Botswana, Burundi, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Egypt, Gambia M-1983 
Guinea, Libya, Re-Union, Seychelles. 


2. Woollen Fabrics . Kenya, Mauritius, Sudan, Morocco, Zambia. 

3. Woollen & Acryllic 

Knitwears . . . Ethiopia, Sabah, Nigeria, Somalia. 

4. Woollen Blankets . . Sudan. 


5. Shawls & Scarves 

6. Cotton Piece goods 

7. Cotton Yarn 


8. Knitted Cotton Fabrics 


9. Cotton Made-Ups. 


Malta, Kenya, Libya, Somalia. 

Burundi, Central African Rep., Gambia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, 
Ivory Coast, Lisotho, Morocco, Nigeria, Niger, Togoland, 
Uganda, Zaire. 

Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameron Canary Islands, 
Comoroos, Congo Rep., Central African Rep., Ethiopia, 
Gabon, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Liberia, Libya, Lisotho, 
Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Mozambique, Morocco, Namibia 
(S. W. Africa), Niger, Re-Union Island, Senegal, Seychelles, 
Somalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Spanish (W. Africa), Tanzania, 
Tunisia, Togoland, Uganda, Zambia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Cameron, Canary Islands, 
Comoroos, Congo Rep., Central African Rep., Ethiopia, 
Gambia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea Ivory Goast, Kenya, Liberia, 
Libya, Lisotho, Malawi, Mali, Mauritius, Mozambique, 
Morocco, Namibia, (S. W. Africa), Nigeria, Niger Re-Union 
Island, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Sudan, Swaziland, 
Spanish (W. Africa), Tanzania, Tunisia, Togoland, Uganda, 
Zambia, Zaire, Zimbabwe. 

Algeria, Benin, Cameroon, Libya, Mali Re-Union Island, Sene¬ 
gal, Sierra Leone, Spanish (S. W. Africa), Togoland, Zimbabwe. 


M 


» 


?» 


»» 


358 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part I— Sec. 1] 


APPENDIX 24 — Contd. 


SI. Description of Export Products New Markets 

Nu. 


1 2 3 


Date from 
which 
effective 


4 


FOOD PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : G 

1. Green Tea in containers of any size,'! All countries except United Kingdom, Ireland, West 1-4-1983 

defined as China Tea. ] Germany, Netherlands, USSR, Poland, Yugoslavia, 

> USA, Canada, ARE, Sudan, Iraq, Iran, Qatar, UAE, 

2. Aromatic teas in packets upto 1 kg. Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Muscat, Jordan, 

J Afghanistan, Japan, Pakistan, Tunisia, Libya, 

Australia and Newzealand. 



[wpr i — i] 

vrrar <rr vnmt; xpbtsttw 


359 


APPENDIX 24— Concld. 




n. NEW PRODUCTS 



SI. Description of Export Product 
No. 



Date from 
which 
effective 

1 2 



3 


CHEMICAL'. vND ALLIED PRODUCTS COVERED BY PRODUCT GROUP : B 

1. Chlorinated rubber paint 1-4-1983 

2. Radial Tyres 

3. .. ubber railway pads ano mats 

4. Polyester film „ 

5. Paper pulp and moulded products 

6. Meat-cum-Bone meal „ 


Notes i— 

(1) The New Markets in respect of Engineering Goods coveted by Product Group ‘A’ as mentioned at S. Nos. 1—21 above 

were notified vide Public Notice No. 4—ITC (PN)/84 dated the 1st February 1984. * 

(2) The New Mtkets in respect of Chemicals and Allied Products covered by Product Group : B as mentioned at S, Nos. 
1—37 above were notified vide Public Notice No. 5— ITC{PN)/84 dated 1st February 1984 and those covered by S. Nos. 

58—120 vide Public Notice No. 25—ETC (PN)/84 dated the 25th May 1984. 

(3) The New Markets in respect of Plastic Products covered by Product Group : C as mentioned at S. Nos. 1—42 above 

were notified vide Public Notice No. 6—ITC (PN)/84 dated the 1st February 1984. 

(4) The New Markets in respect of Textile Products covered by Product Group : ’K’ & ‘O’ as mentioned at S. Nos. 1—9 

above wero notified vide Public Notice No. 7—ITC (PN)/84 dated the 1st February 1984. 

(3) The New Markets in respect of Food Products covered by Product Group : ‘G* as mentioned at S. Nos. 1—2 abova- were 
notified vide Public Notice No. 14—ITC (PN)/84 dated the 22nd February 1984. 

(6) The New Products In respect of Chemicals and Allied Products covered by Product Group : ’B’ as mentioned at S. Nos 
1—6 above wero notified vide Public Notice No. 5—ITC (PN)/84 dated the 1st February 1984. 


MGIPRRND— S/3 5* GI/S3—TSS 1—8-3-83—800 




T 




