VfXtfl 222 


t 


REGISTERED No. D. 222 


•hi^d an <I9|VM 

H\iz (Dasette of <3ndia 

srfsrcrpc 0 srfnfsm 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


rto 34 ] iff STfam, E'ER 24, 1968/ETT 2, 1890 

N*. 34] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AUGUST 14 . i9«8/BHADRA 2 , 1890 

eft £f fRR <p> frwr rft 5rat £ fwE& fa sm bhire % vt if wr wr e^ i 

Separate paging Is given to this Part in order that it may be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


rut IT — w>t :—TWt (ii) 

PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (ii) 

(WT ERTfEr Wt qtybf) RUW ETm V ERFEff sfrt (ffa W* 5UJTRET Wt «Ff) 

fRlfta SHfamtff ffTTT WTT> fatT E17 feftffl Et*5T wk tfffaHERTrj I 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern¬ 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 26 th July 1968 

S.O. 2821.— In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of tbe People Act, 1951, 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order, pronounced on tbe 22nd/23rd April, 
1968 by the High Court of Gujarat at Abmedabad in Election Petition No. 22 of 1967, 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD 
Election Petition No. 22 of 1967 

22/23 nl April 1968 

District: Banaskantha. 

Popatlal, son of Manilal Joshi, aged about 37 years, by caste Brahmin, Occupation Social 
Work, residing at Pathhar Sadak, Palanpur, District Banaskantha, North Gujarat— 
Petitioner. 

Versus 

t. Manubhai. son of Nandlal Amersey, aged about 38 years, by caste Vaishya, 
Occupation business, residing at Green-Fields. 134, Backbay Reclamation, 
Bombay 1. 

2. G. G. Mehta, alias Gordhandas, son of Girdharlal Mehta, aged about 54 years, by 
caste Vaishya, occupation Bar-at-Law and Social work, residing at House No. 1, 
1652, Radhanpuri Building, Kirti Stambh, Palanpur, Dist. Banaskantha. North 
Gujarat. 


37 95 ) 





3796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


3. Jrvrajbhai, son of Kesarbhai Dcsai, aged about 40 years, by caste Rabari, occupa¬ 

tion business, residing at C/o, Shri Dhanabhai Hirabhai Khatana. P. O. Sihori, 
Taluka Kankrej, Dist. Banaskantha, North Gujarat and 

4, Raisinhji, son of Kcsarisinhji Jadeja, aged about 47 years, by caste Kshatriya, 

occupation Jagirdar, residing at Village Soneth, Taluka Wav, Dist, Banaskantha, 
North Gujarat— Respondents. 

Mr. C. T, Dam with M/s. K. G. Vakharia and H. M. Mehta, Advocates— for the 
Petitioner. 

M/s. I. M. Nanavaty and P. M. Ravel— for respondent No. 1. 

Mr. N. J. Mehta— for respondent No. 2. 

Respondent No. 3, served, absent- 

Mr. G. C. Patel for respondent No. 4, declared that he had no instructions from 
Respondent No. 4. 

CORAM: N. K. VAKIL J. 
(22-23rd April 1968) 


ORAL JUDGMENT 

This election petition is filed to challenge the election of Manubhai N, Amersey, the first 
respondent, who contested the election as a candidate for the Swatantra Party from the 
parliamentary constituency of Banaskantha Palanpur to the Lok Sabha in the general elec¬ 
tions held on the 18th of February 1967. The petitioner is an elector in the said consti¬ 
tuency and was an active worker and supporter or the second respondent Shri G. G. Mehta 
who contested the election as a candidate of the Congress party, and lost the election by 
a difference of 4,407 votes. The third respondent was an independent candidate who 
secured only 14,265 votes as against 1,05,621 by the second respondent and 1,10,028 by 
the first respondent. The official symbol of the first respondent was the Star and that of 
the second respondent two bullocks with yoke on. The third respondent though duly served 
has not appeared- The fourth respondent was the official candidate of the Swatantra Party 
for the Radhanpur constituency for the Gujarat State Assembly. He has been joined in 
the petition on the ground that corrupt practices were committed by him and/or his elec¬ 
tion agent, though no relief has been asked against him. He has appeared through his 
advocate and filed his written statement denying the allegations made against him. Apart 
from that however, he has taken no part in the proceeding. 

The petition as originally filed was based on various grounds but the petitioner at one 
or the other stage gave up those grounds as I shall point out hereafter and has shall ultimately 
contested the petition only on the ground of corrupt practice of undue influence of induc¬ 
ing or attempting to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of 
divine displeasure or spiritual censure falling in section 123(2), proviso (a) (il) of the 
Representation of Peoples Act, 1951 which shall be referred to hereafter as ‘the Act’. I 
shall therefore refer to the other grounds just to indicate that they were and state the facts 
regarding the ground ultimately relied upon by the petitioner in some details and the stand 
of the first respondent in respect thereto. 

The petition was based on the following grounds:— 

(1) The first respondent or his election agent and/or other persons with the consent of 
the first respondent or his election agent, committed (i) the corrupt practice of incurring or 
authorizing expenditure in connection with the election of the first respondent for in excess 
of the maximum amount prescribed, details and particulars whereof are given in sub-paras 
(A) to (H) of para 11. By an order granting an amendment dated 25th September 1967, 
further particulars were added; (il) corrupt practice of bribery as alleged in para 12 of the 
petition; (iii) corrupt practice of undue influence by directly or indirectly interferring or 
attempting to interfere with the free exercise of electoral rights of several voters by giving 
threats as detailed in para 13 of the petition. By order dated 25th September 1967 per¬ 
mitting amendments further particulars were added; (iv) Corrupt practice of appealing to 
the voters in the name of the cow. which is a religious symbol as detailed in para 15 of the 
petition; (v) corrupt practice of hiring of or procuring or using horse carriages and mechni- 
cally propelled vehicles for freely carrying voters to the polling stations as alleged in para 
16 of the petition. Further particulars were added by the amendment granted by the 
Order of the Court dated 25th September 1967; (vi) corrupt practice of obtaining 
assistance of—Government servants as alleged in para 17 of the petition. 

(2) The result of the election was materially affected in so far as it concerned the re¬ 

turned candidate by improper reception, refusal or rejection of votes or the reception of 
void votes as in para 19 of the petition. 




Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3797 


The second respondent supported the petition by filing a written statement. But the 
first respondent denied ail the allegations and the grounds referred to hereinabove. I do 
not find it necessary to mention the details thereof as all these grounds were given up at 
various stages as mentioned hereafter. 

As regards the ground which the petitioner adhere to till the end for the purposes of 
supporting tne petition, the averments in the petition as it originally stood were that the 
first respondent, his agents and other persons with the consent of respondent No. 1 and/or 
his election agent have directly or indirectly interfered or attempted to interfere with the 
free exercise of the electoral rights in as much as they have induced the voters or attempted 
to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of divine displeasure or 
spiritual censure and as some of the instances he alleged as under:— 

(a) One Himatlal Mulani who was the election agent of respondent No. 4 who with the 
■consent of respondent No. 1 also carried on propaganda for him. Mulani in the last two 
weeks of January 1967 put up a Board in front of the election office at Radhanpur show¬ 
ing a picture of the cow being slaughtered by the neck with a sword. There are further 
allegations in respect of this instance but it is not necessary to mention them as this allega¬ 
tion was ultimately given up. 

(b) One Shambhu Maharaj, a well-known saint and Kirtankar and a social worker of 
Gujarat, held meetings for supporting the candidature of the first respondent at the instance 
of and with the consent of the first respondent at places and dates mentioned in sub-para 
■(b) para 14, of the petition. The first respondent and/or his said election agent had 
attended and addressed the said meetings supporting the line of argument on the basis of 
cow-slaughter considered as a sin committed by congressmen including congress candidates 
which was adopted by the said Shambhu Maharaj. At each of the aforesaid meetings 
Shambhu Maharaj appealed to the religious feelings of the people in the audience and 
exhorted them not to yote for the Congress party candidates including the second respon¬ 
dent and pointed out that if they votes for the Congress party candidates, the voters would 
commit the sin of cow slaughter and urged them in the name of mother cow to take vow 
not to vote for the Congress party candidates. The petitioner averred that the said appeal, 
exhortation and urging as aforesaid of Shambhu Maharaj amounted to inducing or attempt¬ 
ing to induce the electors to believe that the electors would, by voting for any congress 
party candidate including the second respondent, become or be rendered an object of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure- By an amendment made under the orders of the Court 
dated 25th September 1967, allegations in respect of one Bava Mohananand Maharaj and 
Bava Laxmanpuri as instances of the said corrupt practice were added. As they have also 
been subsequently dropped, I do not find it necessary to give any details thereof. Further 
■instances were given in sub-paras (c), (d) and (e) of para 14 but they are also not pressed 
and therefore I am not mentioning the details thereof. 

The most material part of the pleading however was added as particulars or instances of 
the corrupt practice of undue influence in para 14 by the amendment allowed by order 
■dated 7th March 1968. By the said amendment, several passages from the speeches made 
by Shambhu Maharaj at various places have been incorporated in the petition. Verbatim 
notes of these speeches were taken by the police constable deputed for the purpose to take 
shorthand notes and which reports are produced in evidence. At this stage I do not refer 
to all the details thereof as I shall have to deal with them in details when I discuss the 
respective submissions of the parties. It may be observed here that the first amendment 
of the petition was allowed by Divan J. and the second was permitted by myself. In the 
respective orders passed by us for reasons stated therein, it is made very clear that the 
petitioner shall be entitled to lead evidence and rely upon the grounds of corrupt practice 
of undue influence falling within the purview of section 123(2) proviso (a)(il) of the Act and 
not the one contemplated by section 123(2) in its first part and exclusive of tho proviso. 

The petitioner alleged in para 18 of the petition, the corrupt practice on the ground of 
use of or appeal to the religious symbol of the cow. As an instance of the said corrupt 
practice, reliance is placed in the said para on an alleged pamphlet published by one V. P- 
Gupta, Secretary of the Sarvodaya Gau RaLshak Samiti. It may however be mentioned 
that the petitioner has made no attempt to establish this instance but in para 18, the 
petitioner has further alleged that those who were carrying on the agitation of prevention 
of cow-slaughter in the month of December 1966 and January 1967, propagated that the 
Congress party and the persons belonging to the said party including its candidates did not 
believe in the prevention of cow-slaughter and that they were encouraging cow-slaughter. 
They used to propagate that those belonging to the congress wore sinful persons inasmuch 
as they were responsible for thousands of cows being slaughtered every day. According to 
the petitioner, because of this propaganda in the said constituency, it had affected adversely 
the election prospects of the respondent No. 2 and brightened the election prospects of 



3798 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Pari II— 


respondent No. 1. Under the Order dated 25th September 1967 granting amendment, the 
petitioner has given particulars of some more meetings wherein Shambhu Maharaj addressed 
voters in several villages. Details of the number of persons attending are also stated. It is 
alleged that on account of the propaganda and on account of the threats to the voters that 
they would become objects of divine displeasure or spiritual censure if they voted for 
respondent No. 2, he had lost over 25,000 votes and that the respondent No. I benefltted 
to the extent. On this ground it was averred that under the circumstances, respondent 
No. 2 is entitled to be declared elected. By the above stated amendment, the petitioner 
also brought in the petition instances and particulars of speeches at various places of one 
Mohananand Maharaj and others but ultimately no reliance is placed thereon by the 
petitioner. On these allegations made, the petitioner prayed: (a) that it may be declared 
that the election of the respondent No. 1 from the Bansakantha Parliamentary Constituency 
to the House of the People is void; 

(b) that it may be declared that the respondent No. 2 has been duly elected to the House 
of the People from the said Banaskantha Parliamentary Constituency; (c) that costs of the 
Petition be awarded to the petitioner. 

The respondent No. 1 in reply to the charge of corrupt practice of undue iniluence of 
inducing or attempting to induce the electors to believe that thoy will be rendered an object 
of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, denied specifically all and every allegation as stated 
in para 14 including the sub-paras thereof save and except the facts specifically admitted 
by him. He denied that he, his agents and other persons with the consent of the returned 
candidate or his election agents had directly or indirectly interfered or attempted to in¬ 
terfere with the free exercise of the electoral rights in as much as they induced the voters 
or attempted to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure. He also denied the allegations, contentions and submis¬ 
sions made in the instance cited in support of the allegations. As regards the allegations in 
respect of the speeches made by Shambhu Maharaj, the respondent No. 1 denied that 
Shambhu Maharaj is a well-known saint and Kirtan-Kesari and a social worker of Gujarat. 
He also denied meetings having been held for supporting his candidature wherein Shambhu 
Maharaj had spoken and that such meetings were held with the consent of respondent No. 1 
or his election agent. He also denied the correctness of the truth of the details regarding 
the place and dates of holding the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. He denied having 
attended any meeting of Shambhu Maharaj. He also denied that his election agent bad 
attended any of the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. He denied that the' basis of cow 
slaughter considered as a sin committed by the congressmen including congress candidates 
was a line of arguments of Shambhu Maharaj. It is also denied that Shambhu Maharaj 
appealed to the religious feelings of the people in the audience and exhorted them not to 
vote for the congress party candidates including the second respondent. It is further 
denied that the alleged appeal, exhortation and urging as aforesaid of the said Shambhu 
Maharaj amounted to inducing or attempting to induce the electors to believe that the elec¬ 
tors would by voting for any congress party candidate including the respondent No. 2 be¬ 
come or be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure. He further 
submitted that the allegation regarding the meeting of Shambhu Maharaj and the line of 
argument of his speeches was vague and did not comply with the requirements of section 
81(3) of the Act. Then as regards the allegations made in para 18 of the petition, res¬ 
pondent No. 1 has stated that it was not true that the result of the election was 

materially affected in so far as it concerned the returned candidate by the alleged corrupt 

practice committed in the interest of the returned candidate. He denied the allegation 
made in respect of Shri Gupta and the activity of Sarvodaya Gau Raksha Satniti. He 
denied that any propaganda was made as alleged, in the constituency by those who were 
carrying on agitation of the prevention of cow-slaughter to the effect that the Congress 
party and the persons belonging to the party including its candidates did not believe in the 
prevention of cow-slaughter. He denied that any such propaganda was made with his 
knowledge and consent of his or of his election agents, He also denied that respondent 
No. 2 lost the election by a small margin of 4407 votes on account of the alleged pro¬ 

paganda in the name of the religion and the cow. 

Over and above this, the respondent No. 1 also raised a contention that the petition is 
not in accordance with sections 81. 82 and 83 of the Act and therefore not maintainable. 
It is also contended that the petitioner had not verified full particulars of the corrupt 
practice alleged and that the affidavit in support of the allegations of corrupt practices is 
not in accordance with law. 


After the petition was amended, for the first time, the respondent No. 1 put in his addi¬ 
tional written statement and so far as the material allegations are concerned, he has denied 




Sec. 3 <;i)i the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3799 


the allegations made in para 18A(i). He denied that the meetings as stated in the said 
para were held at the places mentioned therein and the persons alleged to have attended 
such meetings numbered as stated therein. He also denied that on account of appeal in 
the name of religion and on account of the threats of divine displeasure and spiritual 
censure to votern, the respondent No. 2 had lost about 25,000 votes. As regards the 
allegation in para 18A(ii), respondent No. 1 denied that the alleged meeting at was 
held and that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed the said meeting, He also dented that 
Mohananand Maharaj had addressed the said meeting. 

After the last amendment was allowed on the 7th of March 1968 and the petition was 
amended, the respondent No. 1 put in his further written statement to the amended peti¬ 
tion inlev alia stating that for the purpose of deciding as to whether Shambhu Maharaj by 
his alleged speeches induced or attempted to induce his audience to believo that they will 
become or will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, portions of 
his alleged speeches or extracts of his alleged speeches cannot be picked up and considered 
Jo hors their context anil the entire speech, if it is proved to have been actually made by 
Shambhu Maharaj, should be read as a whole in order to decide as to whether Shambhu 
Maharaj had induced the alleged belief in his audience. He further submitted that it 
should be taken into consideration that the fast of Shankeracharya and others on their 
insistence on a total ban of cow-slaughter had become shot political issue on the eve of 
the election and it had caused public agitation at various places. Shambhu Maharaj was 
■ also a probable candidate at ; e election and he had decided not to contest ultimately. 
During the 1 lection period, wlun the election tempo was very high, on the political issues, 
if there wore exaggerations, metaphors and strong language resorted to by the speaker anil 
if incidentally the speaker had introduced considerations of religion, allowance should be 
made for the same and those considerations of religion, if at all introduced by the speaker 
in his speech should be considered in the light of the relevant political controversy. It is 
denied that in speeches were made at Igbalgadh, Laxmipura, Amirgadh, Vav, Bhabhar 
and Tharad by Shambhu Maharaj as have been reproduced. He further denied that 
Shambhu Maharaj made any such speeches with his coasent or with the consent of his 
election agent, A dispute has also been raised as regards the correctness of the translation 
made by the petitioner of the extracts from the alleged speeches of Shambhu Maharaj at 
several meetings and which are reproduced, in the amended petition. It has also been 
stated that Shambhu Maharaj is not shown, or even alleged by the petitioner to possess any 
authority from Shankaracharya to make any statement for and oh behalf of or in the name 
of Shankaracharya. It has also not been shown that Shankaracharya had in fact conveyed 
any mcassage or mandate to the audience through Shambhu Maharaj at each of the places 
where Shambhu Maharaj is alleged to have spoken. It is further stated that unless Shan¬ 
karacharya had himself given any message or mandate to Hindus or unless the person who 
speaks in the name of Shankaracharya or purports to convey any message or mandate 
from Shankaracharya, discloses any due authority from Shankaracharya to the audience, 
the alleged message or mandate of Shankaracharya as conveyed by the speaker cannot 
cause any effect on the voters. The said statement is more or less argumentative and 
therefore I do not find it necessary to refer to all the statements made therein as they shall 
be considered as parts of the submissions made by the learned Advocate while consider¬ 
ing the respective issues. 

The issues arising from the pleadings and my findings thereon are as follows:— 

Issues Findings. 

( 1 ) Whether rcsooudent No. t proves that the petition is First part in the negative. Second 

not in accordance with the provisions of Secs. 81 , 82 or part in the affirmative. 

83 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? If 
so, whether the petition is maintanable ? 

( 2 ) Whether respondent No. 1 proves that the petitioner In the negative. Second part does 

has not verified full particulars of the corrupt practice not survive, 
alleged by him ? If so, what is the result ? 

( 3 ) Whether respondent No. 1 proves that the affidavit in In the negative. Second part does 

support of the allegations of corrupt practices is not not survive, 
in accordance with law ? If so, what is the result ? 

( 4 ) Whether the allegations regarding the corrupt pract e 1st Part: 

committed by the persons otherthan the FJection Agent In th e negative, 
are liable to be struck off 7 Whether the petitioner can Ilnd Pait : 
be permitted to lead evidenceregarding corrupt practice In the affirmative, 
committed by persons other than the returned candidate 
■ or his Election Agent ? 



3800 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


Issues Findings 

( 5 ) Whether the petitioner proves that Che first respondent Not pressed, 
incurred or authorised expenditure in contravention 

ofS. 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 

( 6 ) Whether the petitioner proves that any oerson named in 1st part: In the affirmative with, 
the oetition induce or attempted to induce any elector reyard to Shambhu Maharaj 
to believe that he or any other person in whom he was only. 

interested would become the object of dtvinediB- Ilnd part : Said corrupt practice^ 
pleasure or spiritual censure ? If so, whether the said was committed with the consent 
corrupt practice wns committed bv the first respondent of the Election Agent of Res- 
or bv his Election Agent or with the consent of the pondent No. 1 . 
first respondent or his E'ection Agent ? 

(7) Whether the petitioner proves that an. person named In the negative, 
in the petition appea'ed to the voters to vole for or 

refrain from voting for any person on the ground of 
use of or appeal to religious symbol and that such 
appeal was for furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of the first respondent ? 

Whether the said corrupt practice was committed by 
the first respondent or by his election agent or by any 
Other person with the consent of the first respondent 
or his election agent ? 

(old issue was substituted by this issue). 

( 8 ) Wncthcr the petitioner proves that any person named Not pressed. 

in the petition threatened any elector or any person in 
whom the elector was interested with injury of any 
kind as alleged in the petitioner ? If so, whether such 
corrupt practice was committed by the first respondent 
or his election agent or by any other person with the 
consent of the firstrespondent or his Election Agent ? 

( 9 ) Wuethcr the petitioner proves that any person named Not pressed, 
in tne petition used any vehicle for thefree conveyance 

of any electors to and from any polling stations ? 

Wncthcr such vehicle was hired or procured by the 
first respondent or his election agent or by any other 
person wuh the consent of the first respondent or his 
Election Agent ? 

( 10 ) What relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled to ? As per order. 

When (he issues were framed by Diwan I. Mr. Vakharia, the learned Advocate for the 
petitioner had stated that he did not want to press the issue regarding recount on any 
of tfic grounds mentioned in section I00(l)(d)(iii) and also the ground under section 123(7), 
though averments regarding these grounds were set out in the petition. 

At the time when the matter came for hearing before me and after three witnesses were 
'examined by the petitioner, on the first date when evidence was being recorded, Mr. 
Vakharia stated that the petitioner did not want to press a part of the grounds based on 
incuring of expenses by respondent No. 1 in excess of the prescribed amount. It was 
Stated that grounds in para 11(C) read with para ll(AA) was not pressed that is to say 
the expenditure alleged to have been made alter holding meetings was not pressed. Simi¬ 
larly it was stated that the petitioner did not want to press expenses mentioned in para 
11(C) ivj in respect of the processions. Similarly the ground of allegation in para 11(H) 
was not pressed which was also expenditure alleged to have been made after processions. 
It was further stated that allegations in para 12 (a) and (b) as regards gifts having 
been given were pressed. Then it was also stated that the petitioner did not want to 
press his allegations made in para 17 of the petition. This ground was given up earlier 
as stated above. Similarly it was reiterated that allegations in para 19 were also not 
pressed which he had already given up at the stage of framing issues. 

After the evidence of about 16 witnesses was recorded, on the 5th of March 1968 
Mr. Vakharia on behalf of the petitioner again informed the Court that the petitioner 
was not pressing issue No. 5 as a whole- Similarly be declared that issues Nos. 8 and 9 
were also not pressed. As regards issues Nos. 6 and 7 it was stated that issue No. 6 
will be pressed only so far as it concerned the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj and the 
allegations in respect of other speakers were not pressed, Similarly with regard to issue 
No. 7 also it was declared that the petitioner was not pressing the issue except in the 
case of the speeches of Shambhu Maharai. 

The above discussion would show that issues Nos. 5, 7, 8 and 9’ do not survive for 
consideration as they are not pressed before me ultimately. The burden of proof of issue 




Sac. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 3801 


Nos. 1, 2, 3 and 4 is on respondent No. ]. They were not given up though questioned 
at the stage when the petitioner gave up certain part of his case. But no attempt was 
made to substantiate either of these issues at any stage and the learned Advocate for 
the respondent No. 1 has made no submissions before me on these issues. Therefore 
they also do not remain to be considered. Therefore, tho only issue that requires to be 
considered and decided is issue No. 6 so far as it concerned the speeches of Shambhu 
Maharaj. More precisely put, the only points that now remains for determination are: 
(1) Whether any of the speeches or part thereof alleged to have been made by Shambhu 
Maharaj and which are Exs. R-l to R-6 were made by Shambhu Maharaj and if so whether 
they amount to corrupt practice of undue influence falling under section 123(2) proviso 
(a)(ii) of the Act? (2) If so whether it could be said that it was committed with the 
consent of respondent No. I or his election agent Punambhai Patel. 

The evidence relied upon by the petitioner to discharge the burden of proof of the 
corrupt practice alleged, broadly divides itself into two parts viz., (i) the documentary 
evidence mostly consisting of the reports made by witness Police Constable Barot of the 
speeches made by Shambhu Maharaj. These have of course to be read with the oral 
evidence of witness Barot and the supporting evidence of witness P.S.I. Pandha; (ii) 
the oral evidence of witnesses who claim to have attended the meetings of Shambhu 
Maharaj at various places. I may at once say that the oral evidence of other witnesses 
hns not been relied upon by the petitioner to prove the contents of the speeches but is 
relied upon inter cilia for proving the facts of Shambhu Maharaj having made speeches 
at those respective places where the witnesses themselves claim to have attended the 
fact of the statuts of Shambhu Maharaj etc. It will therefore be convenient to deal 
with this oral evidence later. 

T.I.B. Sub-Inspector Pandya established that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed meetings 
in Banaskantha Parliamentary constituency on the 26th of January 1967, 8th of February 
and 9th of February 1967. On the 26th of January 1967, Shambhu Maharaj had addressed 
the meetings at Palanpur, Thara, Dcosa, and Radhanpur. He conceded that for those 
meetings, be had made no special arrangement for taking down the notes of the speeches 
of Shambhu Maharaj. On the 8lh of February 1967 Shambhu Maharaj had addressed 
meetings at iqbalgadh. Amirgadh and I.axmipura. Laxmipura is the suburb of Palanpur. 
For these meetings he had made arrangement to have reports taken by the shorthand 
writer witness Barot. He himself also had attended these meetings. He deposed that 
these shorthand reporter had taken notes of the speeches in shorthand and then he had 
prepared the transcript thereof and submitted them to him. The shorthand notes were 
retained by the reporter The witness produced the reports submitted to him. As regards 
the 9th of February 1967 the witness said that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed meetings 
at Tharad, Vav and Bhabhar. Shorthand notes were taken by the same shorthand reporter 
and transcripts were submitted to him. I do not think it necessary to enter into the details 
of the cross-examination of this witness because there has been no attempt on tho part 
of tho respondent No. 1 by his counsel to challenge the varacily of the fact of reports 
having been taken by constable Barot which ultimately is the most important fact to be 
be considered in this case and on which reliance has been placed by the petitioner, True 
it is that, at the stage of the cross-examination, some effort was made to shake the evidence 
of this witness. But even then I do not find anything in the cross-examination which 
would make me believe thar what the witness had come to say was not the truth. 

Witness No. 13 Chnndrakant Barot has deposed that he is a shorthand reporter in 
the police department and he was in the office of the D.I.G, C.T.D. in February 1968. He 
was instructed to go to Palanpur and report himself to the D.S.P., Palannur. He was 
ultimately asked to contact L.I.B. Police Sub-Inspector Pandya and he was then instructed 
that he will have to go to villages for covering the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. 
He deposed that on the 8th of February 1967 he had first gone, to Iqbalgadh, taken short¬ 
hand report of the speech made by Shambhu Maharaj, then to Amirgarh and lastly 
to Laxmipura where also he had taken the reports in shorthand. He produced note¬ 
books in which he had taken the shorthand reports. He deposed that from these short¬ 
hand notes that he had made, he had prepared the transcripts to be submitted to the 
higher authorities. He had got to transcripts typed by another person. He had got 
these typed in his presence by sitting near the typist and dictating from the shorthand 
notes directly to the typist. It is to be noted that at this stage the witness was asked to 
read out tho report of Iqbalgadh made from his shorthand notes and he almost read half¬ 
way through in Court and while he was reading the transcript was being checked and it 
was found that word for word the typed report compared correctly with the shorthand 
notes about which a note has been made in his evidence. The witness then deoOsed that 
he had got typed the transcript word for word from notes so far the speech of Shambhu 
Maharaj was concerned. Tho headings in the typewritten transcript shown are also there 
in the shorthand note book. The witness has further deposed that he hid taken down 



3802 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHADRA 2, 1890 [Pa*t II— 


those shorthand notes of what was spoken in the meeting. It is found that so far the 
speech of Punambhai Fulabhai Patel, the election agent of respondent No. 1 is concerned, 
the witness had taken down the speech made by him in the shorthand note book but in the 
typewritten report, only a reference in short had been made to that effect. The witness 
further deposed that in the typewritten report also the facts stated are correct and it 
contains what was actually stated by Shambhu Maharaj in the respective meetings. Then 
he explained that in the column of speakers at the head of the report, he had only 
mentioned the names of those who spoke in the meetings and had not noted the names 
of prominent persons also who were present. But later on the witness has said that he 
also used to note the names of the prominent persons if he was known to him. The wit¬ 
ness also deposed the same way as regards the meetings at Vav, Tharad and Bhabhar 
on the 9th of February 1967. As regards the meetings at Vav, the witness said that he 
had taken down the report of that meeting in long hand himself from the shorthand notes 
and had sent it to the D.S.P-, Palanpur by post. The transcripts of the reports of the 
two other meetings were got typed in the same manner as he had done in respect of 

the meetings of the 8th. Whatever has been stated in these reports was actually stated 

by Shambhu Maharaj. In cross-examination the witness stated that over and above the 
above stated meetings, his shorthand note book also contained the reports of the speeches 
at Juna Deesa and Chandisar where Shambhu Maharaj had spoken on the 9th of February 
The reports of these meetings were also forwarded to the higher authorities. He was 
also present at village Deodar but at that place, Shambhu Maharaj had not made any 
speech- He did not know whether at Gadh he had made any speech or not because he 
had not gone to Gadh. In cross-examination the witness said that he had taken shorthand 
notes of all the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj word for word. I am again not trying 
to enter into the discussion of the evidence of this witness in any details of the cross- 
examination because I find that the witness has not at all been shaken in cross-examination 
But apart from that it is material to note that no attempt has been made and very rightly 

on behalf of the first respondent to challenge before me the veracity of the evidence of 

eiher P.S.I. Pandya or L.I.B. constable Barol. On the contrary it was the submission of 
the learned Advocate for the respondent No. 1 at the time when the amendment applica¬ 
tion was argued that not only respondent No. 1 did not challenge the varucity of these 
witnesses, nor the fact that the reports produced by witness Barot but on the contrary 
so far as witness Barot is concerned, there was a positive effort made by him to establish 
that the shorthand notes that he had taken of the respective speeches of Shambhu Maharaj 
and their transcripts were genuine, reliable documentary evidence and that the speeches 
were taken down by the witness in shorthand word for word uttered by Shambhu Maharaj 
and that the transcripts were also correctly made. This last aspect of the submission 
on behalf of respondent No. 1 that there was no positive effort made on his behalf 
to establish these facts, I have not accepted in the order passed by me allowing 
the amendment for reasons given therein but the fact remains that there 
is no doubt whatever that this evidence is entirely reliable and that the 
transcripts Exts. B-l to B-6 of the shorthand notes made by witness Barot arc 
word for word faithful reproduction of the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj made at 
respective places. Mr. Nanavaty even at the stage of final arguments fairly did not 
dispute these facts. 

As observed above, the only kind of corrupt practice which the petitioner has alleged 
and has to establish is the one falling within the four comers of proviso (a) (11) of 
section 123(2) of the Act which is as follows:— 

"123. Corrupt practice .—The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for 
the purposes of this Act:— 

( 1 ) * * * 

(2) Undue influence, that is to say, any direct of indirect interference or attempt 
to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent, or of any other 
person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, with the 
free exercise of any electoral right— 

Provided that— 

(a) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this clause any such 
person as is referred to therein who— 

(i) * * * 

(ii) induce or attempts to induce a candidate or any elector to believe that he, 

or any person in whom he is interested, will become or will be rendered an 



Sec, 3(H)] UK GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 189a 3803 


object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, shall be deemed to inter¬ 
fere with the free exercise of the electoral right of such candidate or 
elector within the meaning of this clause; 


(3) 
(3 A) 

(4) 

(5) 

( 6 ) 

(7) 


+ * * 

4* * * 

* * * 

* + * 

+ * * 

* * * 

* * * 


* # * 

* * * 

* 4* * 

* * * 

+ * 
* * * 

+ * * 


I* 

* 

* 

* 

* 


♦ 

♦ 


* 

* 


The first part of sub-section (2) provides that undue influence will be one of the corrupt 
practices and is also laid down what will be considered to be undue influence for the 
purposes of the Act. It lays down that any direct or indirect interference or an attempt 
to interfere by a candidate or his election agent or any one else with the consent of the 
candidate or his election agent, with the free exercise of the right to vote or refrain from 
voting for a candidate will amount undue influence. Then the proviso is added by way of 
explanation and not for the purpose of carrying out something from the main provision. 
The effect of the proviso (a) (ii) is that if a candidate, his election agent or any one 
pise with his consent or the consent of his election agent induces or attempts to induce 
a candidate or an elector to believe that he or any person in whom he is interested will 
become ro will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, shall bo 
deemed to commit the corrupt practice of undue influence as defined by the main part 
of sub-section (2). 


Mr. Nanavaty first raised the question of the construction of the proviso (a) (ii) of sec¬ 
tion 123(2). He submitted that in the construction of this provision, the distinction 
between the provisions of the main part of sub-section (2) and the old sub-section (3) 
must be kept in mind as a background. Sub-section (2) main part deals with the vice 
of interference with the free exercise of the electoral right and that can arise in a 
variety of ways. Sub-section (3) before the present amendment prohibited mere systematic 
appeal inter alia on the ground of religion but proviso (a) (i) strikes at what is known 
as temporal intimidation while proviso (a) (ii) deals with what is known as spiritual 
intimidation. Argued Mr. Nanavaty that therefore in the cases falling under the old sub¬ 
section (3) and proviso (a)(i) mere utterance of words appealing to religious sentiments 
provided it was a systematic appeal or threatening any candidate or voters would amount 
to corrupt practice but it is not so in the cases falling within proviso (a) (ii). In proviso 
(a)(ii) the Legislature has used the words “induces or attempts to induce an candidate 
or an elector to believe.” The words “induce” and "to believe” are significant and they 
inducatc that the person doing the act or uttering the words must be so situated qua the 
audience that he must be in a position to generate the impugned belief and mere utterance 
of words by any one to any one else cannot come within the mischief. Mr. Nanavaty 
then put a question to himself as to who then must have been comtemplated by the 
Legislature who would be able to generate such a belief. He answered by submitting that 
as this proviso (a) (ii) contemplates the specific undue influence of spiritual threat only, 
the person littering the words must be a person who is in a position to spiritually influence 
his audience and that too in a position to unduly influence so as to leave no chance to the 
electors to vote as they liked by inducing the belief that they shall be objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure. Mr. Nanavaty culminated his argument by advancing 
a proposition that the act or utterances made can come within the mischief of proviso 
fa) (ii) only when the act is done or words are uttered either (i) by a religious head 
“believed to possess some divine power, or (ii) by a person though not a religious bead 
of that character but is a person wellversed in religion and who has quoted some religious 
“books acceptable to the audience as authority in support of the impugned utterances which 
are alleged to induce the belief of spiritual threats. In support of this submission, Mr. 
Nanavaty placed reliance on some decisions of Election Tribunals and adopted the reason¬ 
ing as a part of his argument and also relied upon the decisions of some Courts. I shall 
deal with them a little later. 


I am unable to accept this narrow construction canvassed for on behalf of respon¬ 
dent No, 1. It is a construction which would, to my mind, frustrate the very object 
of the provision. It Is clear from the language used that It contemplates likelihood of- 
the commission of this corrupt practice of undue influence by a candidate or his election 
agent. If the construction suggested were to be accepted, It would mean that a candidate 



/HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


or his election agent can never commit this kind of corrupt practice unless he is a 
person who is recognised as a person possessing some divine powers or authority or is a per¬ 
son who is known to be well-versed in religions and he in support of what he says must be 
able to quote from religious books acknowledged by the audience to whom he is addressing 
as authoritative books on their religion. To accept the construction canvassed for, one will have 
"to assume that under no circumstances a layman can ever induce a belief in a candidate 
or elector that he or they shall become or be rendered objects of divine displeasure 
or spiritual censure. To my mind, there is no warrant in the language used to make 
such an absolute assumption. To me it appears that it would be highly fullaclous to 
make such a presumption. True it is that the words “to induce" and “to believe” 
must be given their due weight and it would be correct to say that anything said which 

cannot induce such a belief cannot amount to this specific corrupt practice and it will 

always be a question of fact whether in a given case the words uttered or writing 
published by an individual before the electors is or is not such as to induce such a 
belief. It is in the nature of things that the facts as to who uttered the words or publish¬ 
ed the writing the contents of such utterance or publication and before whom they are 
uttered or published are relevant factors to be taken into account in determining in- 
each case as to whether such a person could induce or attempt to induce such a belief. 
It may be that in determining the question whether such a belief has been generated 
or not, the Court would more easily be persuaded to hold in the affirmative of the 
speaker or the publisher is a savant or a person of some statuts concerning a given 
religion. In each case, the court has to judge as a question of fact on the evidence 
before it whether the impugned act amounts to inducing or attempting to induce the 
belief in tlio electors that they shall be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual 
censure and in doing so the personality of the speaker and the sensitiveness of the 
audience in respect of religious sentiments are relevant factors to be taken into consi¬ 
deration. But that is quite different from saying that the speaker must have some 

acknowledged statuts and belief to have some divine authority in the hierarchy of the 
religion to which the electors belong, or must be a savant able to quote chapter and 
verse from any religious books accepted as authority on religion by the audience. While 
construing this proviso (a) (ii) it is very necessary to keep in mind the fact that it 
deals with a specie of undue influence as defined in the first part of sub-section (2) of 
section 123 of the Act and therefore the nature of the mischief intended to be forestalled 
by that provision has an impact on the (a) (ii). The mischief which sub-sec. (2) is 
Intended to prevent is the act which will preclude the elector from electing a candidate 
of his own choice. Any such act done will fall within the vice of sub-scction (2) and 
any act which amounts to a spiritual influence that has the tendency to prevent free choice 
of a candidate would come within the mischief of the proviso (a) (ii), It is now 
well-settled that the election law in India lays stress on the prevention of use of influence 
that has the tendency to interfere with the free choice of a candidate by the electorate 
and does not emphasize the individual aspect of the exercise of such influence. This is 
very explicitly brought out in the decision of the Supreme Court in Ram Dial v. “ <nt Lai 
A.I.R. 1959 S-C. 855. Where after discussing similar provisions in the English Law, 
the learned Judges have observed that the Indian Law on the other hand does not 
emphasize the individual aspect of the exercise of such influence, but pays regard to 
the use of such influence as has the tendency to bring about the result contemplated 
in the clause. What is material under the Indian Law, is not the actual effect produced 
by the doing of such acts as are calculated to interfere with the free exercise of any 
electoral right. 

Mr. Nanavaty’s submission included the proposition that the spiritual appeal must 
be of such a character that it leaves no choice whatever to the electors to choose their 
candidate according to their liking. For this, reliance was placed on the following 
passage in Ram Dial v. Sant Lai A.I.R. 1959 S,C. 855 (supra):—. 

“....But it will amount to an abuse of his great influence if the words he uses 
in a document, or utters in his speeches, leave no choice to the persons 
addressed by him, in the exercise of their electoral rights." 

This contention was raised in the case of Lahlng Rehvar v. Vallabdas VTT G.L.R. 753 and 
the same passage was relied upon by Mr. Nanavaty himself on behalf of the respondent. 
While dealing with the said Supreme Court decision, it has been observed that Mr 
Nanavaty relied upon the case of Ram Dial v. Sant Lai and other (supra). That was 
a case under proviso (a) (ii) to section 123(2) of the Act. It was a case in which 
a religious leader had given a mandate that the voters should vote in favour of a parti¬ 
cular candidate. In regard to the facts of that particular case, their Lordships of the 
Supreme Court have made the above stated observations. That was a decision on the 
facts of that particular case and it did not represent the ratio of the case. The ratio 
of the Supreme Court decision was that under the Indian Law the emphasis te on the 
use of influence that has the tendency to bring about the result contemplated in clause 



Sec. 3(u)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHaDJUY 2, 1890 3805 ; 


(a)(ii), What is material under the Indian law, is that the actual effect but the doing 
of such acts as are calculated to interfere with free exercise of the electoral ri^ht, 
In the said case, this High Court held that what was hit by sub-section (2) of section 
123 was the effect which the impugned act has on the free exercise of the electoral 
right, I will rest content at this stage referring to the said observations and adopting 
them. I may however mention here that it was contended on behalf of the petitioner 
that even in the present case the nature of the speeches was such that it left no free 
choice to the voters to elect the candidate according to their liking. I will deal with 
this aspect later. 

Now dealing with the other decisions on which Mr. Nanavaty relied for the narrow 
construction canvassed for by him, the first decision relied upon is of the Election Tribunal 
being Case No. 2 of 1938 of Mohammed Zakaria v. Mohammed Sadiq of Amritsar City 
(Moh .mmadan) Constituency reported in Vol. II of Indian Election Cases by N:S. 
Doabia P. 160. One of the points that arose ofr decision in the said case was 
whether certain words uttered in a speoch by M. Zaffar Ali Khan who was the agent 
of the respondent in that case committed the corrupt practice of undue influence. The 
report shows that the Commission was concerned with the Corrupt Practices Order 1936, 
and that the provision regarding corrupt practice of undue influence is in pari materia 
with tho present provisions of section 123(2) and also proviso (a) (ii). The petitioner 
in the said case contended that M. Zaffar AH by making the impugned appeal to the 
voters restricted their choice to only one of the candidates under pain of spiritual penal¬ 
ties and even otherwise and thereby interfered with the free exercise of their rihgt to 
vote. On the other hand, on behalf of tho respondent it was inter alia urged that the 
threat or an element of compulsion was an essential ingredient of the corrupt practice 
of undue influence and contended that it was not even alleged that M. Zaffar Ali Khan 
compelled his audience to vote for any particular candidate. As regards this contention, 
the Tribunal however held that they could not find any basis in the defintion of “undue 
influence” for the proposition that unless M. Zaffar Ali Khan threatened or compelled 
the voters to vote in a particular manner, the offence of “undue influence” was not 
compelete. The definition of ‘undue influence’ was very wide in its terms apd included 
four different forms of interference viz., direct interference, indirect intcrefercnce, direct 
attempt to interfere and indirect attempt to interfere and it was nowhere laid down that 
such interference or attempt to interfere should be by he method of compulsion. Evi¬ 
dently the offence included such interference or attempt to interfere by any method and 
the 1 ,tie definitely included the method of inducement wherein there may be no compulsion 
at all. These observations do not in any way support the submission made on behalf of 
the respondent No. I but the Tribunal made the following further observations and 
Mr. Nanavaty particularly relied upon them: 

“Although wc are prepared to concede that the inducement must be of such a 
powerful type as would leave no free will to the voter in the exerciso of 
his choice. There would of course, be in such a case mental compulsion 
in a sense but it is not necessary that there should be physical compulsion 
or that a threat must be actually held out by the person who interferes or 
attempts to interfere." 

This aspect of the matter, I have already dealt with by refering to the decision in VII 
Guj.E.R.P.753 (supra). But apart from that, I shall later point out that if this principle 
has also lo be followed, it cannot help the respondent No. 1. In the case before tho 
Tribunal, an effort similar to the one made by Mr. Nanavaty was made to urge that 
spiritual undue influence can bo exercised by a Pir viz., a spiritual leader only and that as 
M. Zaffar Ali Kban was not a Pir but a mere lay man, the charge of tho corrupt practice 
of undue influence could not stand against him. The Tribunal however negatived his 
submission and observed that the definition as reproduced, does not contain anything 
to support the above contention but it was true that whereas in the case of a Pir he has 
the authority of spiritual leadership at his back and what he therefore said was bound to 
carry conviction to his followers, an inducement held out by a layman will be considered 
Sufficiently strong to interfere with the exercise of free will only if the community con¬ 
cerned has great regard for his opinions, or if what he says, has the sanction of some 
religious book whose authority was admitted by the community in question. Mr. 
Nanavaty also drew attention to the following observations:— 

“We agree that one can appeal to religion in a religious constituency and there Is 
certainly no objection in saying or issuing a manifesto to the effect that a cer¬ 
tain candidate’s election will be prejudicial to the interests of Muslims, but the 
limit is transgressed, if one attempts to introduce the idea of suggestion that 
voting In a particular manner will be sinful, and provided the speakers either 
exercises considerable Influence among his co-religionists, or if what he says 
has the support of tho Holy Quran*. 



3806 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part H— 


The latter part of the observations where the Tribunal expressed its view as to when the 
limit will be transgressed, it certainly did not mean to lay down any absolute general pro¬ 
position that the limit would be transgressed only if the situation as stated by it obtains. 
The Tribunal only held that if such facts exist, the limit will be certainly transgressed. It 
did not lay down that in no other circumstances the limit can be considered to have been 
transgressed. 

The next decision of the Tribunal to which my attention was drawn on behalf of the 
respondent No. 1 is: jyotsna Chandra v. Mehrabali III Election Law Reporter P. 488. In 
the said case, the Tribunal observed that they did not find any distinct evidence in proof of 
the fact that the persons said to have addressed the above meetings were really persons 
whose words carried considerable weight with the people thus addressed and in matters of 
religion. Then refering to the Amritsar City H. P. Constituency, 1937; Md. Zakaria v. Sheikh 
Md. Sadiq and case the Tribunal observed that though it has been observed in the said 
case upon which case petitioners have relied, that spiritual undue influence can be exercised 
.among the Muslims by layman such as Maulanas and such others without their being l’irs 
(that is, spiritual leaders), the men must be proved to be persons lor whose opinion on 
matters of religion, the community had great regard. The evidence on t his last point has 
not here been quite satisfactory. Of course, an appeal to the voters such as these, in the 
name of Quoran as proved, would have been held in the nature of mental coersion if they 
had been proved to have emanated from persons whose opinion in matters of religion 
curried considerable influence with them, on which last point, the evidence has not been 
quite satisfactory. As I have discussed here above, in each case the Court will have to 
determine whether under the facts of the case the undue influence alleged is proved or not. 
and the position of the speaker qua the audience and the contents of the speeches are re¬ 
levant facts to be considered. But I am unable to agree with the view that under no cir¬ 
cumstances a lay person can induce the belief contemplated by proviso (a) (ii). fn the view 
that I take and which I shall further discuss a little later, it is possible for a person held 
in great respect by the voters of a given locality not for his knowledge in matters of reli¬ 
gion but otherwise and if he purports to convey the message or mandate of an acknow¬ 
ledged religious leader which contains some spiritual intimidation, the offence of corrupt 
practice is contemplated by sub-section (2) proviso (a) (ii) would be committed. 

I will now deal with the Supreme Court decisions which were referred before me by the 
parties. In Shubnath v. Itam Naraln A.I.R, I960 S- C: 148 a leaflet was addressed to the 
electorate mainly consisting of Adibasis, It was published by the party sponsoring one of 
the candidates, which party was mainly supported by Adibasis. Cock was the official 
symbol of the party and therefore of the candidates supported by it. The leaflet con¬ 
tained an appel in verse form and it is made to appear as if it was what the cock itself was 
saying to the electorate by ending the verse with the words: “Your only cock”. The 
ground taken to challenge the election was that it amounted to corrupt practice under old 
sub-section (3) of section 123 of the Act which prohibited systematic appeal to vote or re¬ 
frain from voting inter alia on the ground of religion for the furtherance of the prospects 
of that candidate’s election. In the majority judgment (Sabha Rao J. dissenting) it was 
observed that the leaflet was largely concerned a Cock. It was said that the leaflet by 
refering to the cock appealed to the religious sentiments of the Adibasis. It was not in 
dispute that cocks were very frequently offered as sacrifices by ,thc Adibasis to the deities. 
The learned Judges then examined the contents of the leaflet and said that it was clear that 
it was sent to be an appeal to the electorate, There was no doubt that the electorate 
appealed to was primarily that part of It which consisted of the Adibasis. It further 
seemed to them that the appeal was made in the name of the cock and it ends “Yours 
only cock". It uses the word 'me’ and ‘L’ at several places and they clearly refer to the 
cock. It was clear therefore that the leaflet purported to be an appeal by the cock stating 
that it served the community even at the cost of its life and that in exchange for these 
services “chara” that is, food in the shape of vote should be given to it which could only 
mean- in the box with the cock symbol that is to the Jharkhand party candidates including 
the appellant. Then refering to the religious ceremonies and the place of cock in the 
ceremonies, it was observed that it was beyond doubt that by refering to the sacrifice of 
the cock the obtaining of the pleasure of the deities was sought to be conveyed. When 
the cock in the leaflet sad ‘give chara in the shape of vote’, what it said in substance was that 
the giving of such votes would result in the deities being pleased. It was tried to be suggested 
on behalf of the respondent there in that case that all that was meant by the leaflet was 
that like the sacrificial cock the candidate, that is, the appellant was prepared to lay his 
life down for the good of the community. The learned Judges however negatived that 
suggestion and observed that they found no language in the leaflet to convey such a mean 
ing There was nothing to show that the sacrifldal cock was being likened to the appellant. 
There was no reference whatsoever to the appellant in the leaflet. Proceeding further the 



V K. - 1 ' ii'/1 mt GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 24 , 1968/BHAURA 2 , I89'» 3807 


Court held that the sentence “do not forget me otherwise I tell, you sons of men will suffer 
eternal miseries" in the leaflet clearly invokes the wrath of the deities on the electorate in 
ease they forget the cock that is forget to vote for the party of which it was the symbol, 
for vote was likened to the food which had to be given to the sacrificial cock and when 
the Gods were displeased, the cock did not take the food. Their Lordships came to the 
conclusion after the discussion that that was clearly an appeal on the ground of religion 
for the substance of it was that it would be an irreligious act not to vote for the party. 
There are other observations in the said case which aro important to be noted. They 
have said, it may be that it would come within the kind of undue influence mentioned in 
section 123(2) (a) (ii) of the Act if practised on an individual elector. Then they have 
considered the fact that if this kind of appeal which they have set out wore made systema¬ 
tically to a large section of the electors, it would come within section 123(3) of the Act. 
Then they have further observed that it would seent clear that an appeal that it would be 
a religious act to vote in a certain manner would be an appeal on grounds of religion. If 
so, it seemed clear that an appeal that a failure to vote in a certain manner would be 
against religion, would also be an appeal on grounds of religion. For these reasons, 
Their Lordships ultimately held that the view of the Courts below that the leaflet contained 
an appeal on grounds of religion was correct. 

It is true that in the said case the Court was concerned with the allegation of corrupt 
practice under old sub-section (3). But what was important to note was that it was held 
that though the language may be metaphorical or parable may be used if the subject 
matter of the talk in substance is an appeal to religious sentiments and if the electorate is 
told that it would be irreligious to vote in favour of the other candidate, or not to vote in 
favour of a particular candidate, it would amount to an appeal on the ground of religion. 
It is also very important to note that the Supreme Court has observed after discussing the 
whole case that such an appeal would come within the kind of undue influence mentioned 
in section 12.3(2) proviso (a) (ii) also. Now these observations are by way of abitar 
ilicts hut all the same this lends support to the reasoning that I have adopted, From this 
decision, therefore, it would appear that though no religious head had published the pam¬ 
phlet and it was published by the party supporting ono of these candidates as it adopted this 
device which in substance was an act whereby religious sentiment of the electorate was 
played upon and a belief was induced that if the vote is not given to the candidate with 
the symbol of the cock, it will be an irreligious act or a sin implicit wherei nis the 
spiritual threat. 


It would he even useful to have a look at the observations made at this stage wherein 
illustrations have been given by Subha Rao J. in his differing judgment wherein by giving 
those illustrations the learned Judge has given an idea as to the limit up to which an 
appeal can go to refer to the matters on religion. The learned Judge has observed that 
the section is not obviously intended to prevent appeals in picturesque or metaphorical 
language drawing analogies from mythology, religion or folklore. In his view when 
most of the voters are Illiterate, the candidate or his agent can attract and enthuse the 
audience or drive home his points only by parables, similes or metaphors drawn parti¬ 
cularly from religions lore which most of tho people understand and appreciate. A dis¬ 
tinction must, therefore, Ire drawn between canvassing on grounds of religion and seeking of 
votes in graphic or picturesque language with analogies from religious lore and then the 
learned Judge has given illustration to further clarify or specify his view and this part of 
his observations to my mind are indeed very instructive. Tho learned Judge has said to 
illustrate, a candidate may appeal to the electorate consisting of persons professing diffe¬ 
rent religions, say Hindus, Mohammadans, Christians etc. to vote for him and say that he 
would sacrifice his life in the cause of his constituency just like Christ sacrificed his life to- 
redeem the world He may also say that like Rama, the virtuous, who killed Ravana,. 
the rukshasa. The embodiment of evil, he would, if elected, put down corruption, nepotism 
and the like in Government. He may even say that he would sacrifice himself as a goat 
before Kali to bring happiness and prosperity to his constituency. All these similes are 
drawn from religion, but thev do not embody an appeal, directly or indirectly, to vote for 
the candidate on grounds of religion. Now even if this view of the learned Judge is 
accepted, it clearly indicates the line which is expected to be drawn by the speaker in 
order to avoid falling within the vices of the corruption of undue influence as contem¬ 
plated by section 123(2) and also under proviso (a) (ii). in the illustration given, it is easy 
to understand that the speaker or the candidate only tries to draw similes in order to 
emphasize the main theme of the political controversy or the points which were the 
poliev of their party which if successful they would like tonersue. T shall certainly keep 
this fact in mind when I go to consider the contents of the speeches with which I am 
concerned as to whether the speeches can, be saved even on this principle. T find that 
these observations of the learned Judge are not even in conflict with the majority views in 



3808 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part li¬ 


the said judgment, As I have already referred to most of the reasoning of the majority 
judgment from which it is apparent that the effort on the part of the respondent to turn 
the impugned part of the pamphlet into only such a similes was not accepted by the 
majority judgment on facts and on the construction of the impugned part of the said 

.pamphlet. 

This also becomes obvious as I shall point out a little later that in an other judgment 
of the Supreme Court, these observations from the dissenting judgment have actually been 
drawn upon for the purposes of supporting the conclusions reached in that decision and I 
might as well immediately refer to that decision which is in Ramanbhai v. Dabhi Ajltkumar 
.A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 669. In the said case, the question before the Court was whether leaflets 
bearing the symbol of the Star, the official symbol of the Swatantra Party, were published 
by a Swatantra Paksha candidate describing it as star "Dhruva" with the characteristics 
associated with that star can amount to the corrupt practice under amended sub-section 
(3) of section 123 of the Act, the object whereof is to prohibit the stirring up of religous 
•sentiment by use or appeal to a religious symbol. This question was examined in two 
‘branches by the Court: Whether the symbol used has any special religious significance 
and whether its inscription on leaflets and pamphlets which were distributed amounts to 
the use of a religious symbol. On both counts the Court held in the negative. This case 
'too had no direct bearing on the question before me but certain observations arc very 
instructive. The learned Judges while discussing the question, referred to the passage in 
the dissenting judgment of Subba Rao J. to which I have made a reference. The observa¬ 
tions are as follow;— 

“We have quoted the learned Judge to point out that a reference to prophets of 
religions or to deities venerated in a religion or to their qualities and deeds 
does not necessarily amount to an appeal to the religious sentiment of the 
electorate. Something more has to be shown for this purpose as indeed, 
according to the majority of the Judges who decided the case, was established 
therein". 

Then Mudholkar J. speaking for the Supreme Court in the later decision tries to give 
instances on his own to illustrate further the point. It is observed that if for instance, the 
illiterate, the orthodox or the fanatical electors arc told that their religion would be in 
danger or they will suffer miseries or calamities unless they cast their vote for a particular 
<candidate, that would be quite clearly an appeal to the religious sentiment of the people. 
Similarly if they are told that the wrath of God or of a deity will visit them if they do not 
Exercise their franchise in a particular way or if they are told that they will receive the 
blessings of God or a deity if they vote in a particular way, that would be an appeal to 
the religions sentiment. Now these illustrations clearly poin. out when the speaker refer¬ 
ring to matters religious, would trensgress the line. This is the other side of the picture 
that has been depicted by the learned Judge. To my mind, therefore, these observations 
made giving illustrations are very material for the purpose of the matter on hand. Suffice 
it to say at this stage that if the electorate consisting of illiterate or orthodox Hindus or 
Hindus having ordinary religious sentiments are told that they will suffer calamities or 
miseries unless they give their votes for a particular candidate, that would be an appeal to 
their religious sentiment. I will have occasion to advert to it again a little later. Another 
principle reiterated by the Supreme Court in this decision is that the abention literature 
should neither be judged strictly nor taken literally. 

In 1969 S.C. 855, to which I have already made a reference, was relied upon by Mr. 
Nanavaty also to show that their religious leader Is not precluded from the right of can¬ 
vassing- Indeed, no one can grudge the right of a religious leader to express his opinion 
regarding merits or demerits of the candidates and to canvass for such of them as he thinks 
deserves his support. He can use his influence in canvassing votes for him as any other 
voter can but then there are limitations too for such a religious leader. If he instead of 
■doing limiting the propoganda in that direction, utters words or publishes any pamphlet 
which would excite religious sentiments and does not confine himself to merely incidental 
reference to religion as was illustrated by Subba Rao J. to which I have made a reference 
and makes the voters believe that if they were to vote for a particular candidate they will 
be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual censure, then certainly he crosses his 
limits of his right as any other voter to canvass for the candidate of his choice and will be 
guilty of corrupt practice as contemplated by section 123(2) (a) (ii) of the Act. That is 
what the Supreme Court has actually held in the said case, On the said aspect, Mr. 
Nanavaty tried to distinguish the present case but T shall deal with it when I actually con¬ 
sider the impugned speeches of Shambhu Maharaj, 

Tn the background of these legal principles it would now be convenient to deal with the 
'facts of the present case and the question is whether any of the impugned speeches made 



lac. 4(ii)j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHADKa 2 , 18PC 3809 


by Shambhu Maharaj or any part thereof read in context of the other parts of the respec¬ 
tive speeches, has the vice of the tendency to bring about a belief in the electorate at the 
respective places that they shall be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual 
censure. I now therefore turn to the speeches. 

The mere fact of any corrupt practice committed by Shambhu Maharaj even if estab¬ 
lished cannot help the petitioner unless it is further established that he did so with the con¬ 
sent of the candidate or his election agent and as even the reports of witness Barot notes 
the presence of the election agent of respondent No. 1 Punambhai Patel only in the meet¬ 
ings at lqbalgadh, Amirgadh and Vav Exs. B-l, B-3 and B-4, Mr. Daru, the learned Advo¬ 
cate for the petitioner relied upon these reports only to prove the contents and the nature 
of speeches by Shambhu Maharaj to establish the charge of corrupt practice alleged. In the 
beginning it was tried by Mr. Daru to say that the consent of either respondent No. 1 or 
his election agent must be held to be established so far as the other speeches are also con¬ 
cerned but ultimately he rightly confined to only these three speeches and did not urge that 
there was any reliable oral evidence to establish corrupt practice with reference to the other 
speeches. 

It is now a well-settled principle that in construing election literature or impugned parts 
of speeches, the document or the speech must be read or construed as a whole and its pur¬ 
port and effect determined in a fair objective and reasonable manner. This was the sub¬ 
mission of Mr, Nanavaty and Mr. Daru did not demur at it. The Supreme Court in 
Kultar Singh v. Mukhtiar Singh A.I.R. 1965 S. C. 141 has laid down that in reading such 
documents, it would be unrealistic to ignore the fact that when election meetings are held 
and appeals are made by candidates of opposing political parties, the atmosphere is usually 
surcharged with partisan feelings and emotions and the use of hyperboles or exaggerated 
language, or the adoption of metaphors and the cxtravagonce of expression in attacking one 
another, are all a part of the game; and so when the question about the effect of speeches 
delivered or pamphlets distributed at election meetings is argued in the cold atmosphere of 
la judicial chamber, some allowance must be made and the impugned speeches or pam¬ 
phlets must be construed in that light. But at the same time the Supreme Court has uttered 
a warning and said that in doing so, however, it would be unreasonable to ignore the ques¬ 
tion as to what the effect of the said speech or pamphlet would be on the mind of the 
ordinary voter who attends such meetings and reads the pamphlets or hears the speeches. 
There is yet another principle also laid down and that Ls that topics like language or reli¬ 
gion may be incidentally or indirectly touched by speakers in political meetings while dis¬ 
cussing political issues which form the subject matter of controversy and care must be taken 
while deciding the question as to whether the Impugned parts of the speech do amount to 
the corrupt practice or not and the matter should be considered In the light of relevant 
political controversy. Keeping in mind this general principle, I will now endeavour to 
examine the three speeches of Shambhu Maharaj. The verbatim reports whereof are Exs. 
B-l, B-3, and B-4. 

In this connection, Mr. Nanavaty for respondent No. 1 urged that all the three speeches 
read as a whole consist only of a political propaganda with maladministration of the 
country by the Congress regime, ban on cow slaughter and Its progeny and fast of Jagadguru 
which had also become a part of the political issue of the time and any reference to 
religion and religious and irreligious acts were merely indirect references and brought 
in to emphasize the political propaganda. The reference to the ‘Adesh’ that is command 
of Jagadguru is a creation of the speaker himself to impress the audience and carry 
conviction to them to accept his appeal. The passages regarding the command of 
Jagadguru and reference to natural calamities should not be read in isolation but should 
be read in conjunction with the theme of the main speech which was political. He sub¬ 
mitted that if an examination of the reports of the speeches this is all that can be said 
about them, then certainly they cannot be the basis of the challenge to the election of 
respondent No. 1. I agree with him that if an examination of these reports, if that is the 
only construction that can be placed on the speeches, the petitioner cannot succeed. 
Keeping in mind this general submission of Mr. Nanavaty, I proceed now to deal with the 
three speeches one after the other. 

The speech at Iqbagadh, report whereof is Ex-B-1 was made on the 8th of February 
1967 at 14-50 hours to 15.15 hours. The heading of the report shows that the meeting 
was called under the auspices of the Swatantra Party at Palanpur. It also shows that 
Shri Punambhai Fulabhai Patel was present and loudspeakers were used. Before noting 
down the speech by Shambhu Maharaj, a note is to be found that Sir i Punambhai had 
explained the object of organising the meeting and requested the people to vote for the 
Swatantra Party and explained the manner in which the votes were to be given. The 
speech of Shambhu Maharaj opens with the remark to the affect that even the best of 
Government can given only means but CRnnot give happiness. A government may give 





3810 the GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part II- 


land for cultivation and crops may be grown therein but frost may fall. A thousand 
rupees may be given for purchase of ox but the ox may die. Then comes the first impugned 
passage, Its translation is as under:— 

“But happiness is given only by God. When religious (duty) is followed, God 
shows compassion. But the Congress has annihilated religion (duty). Votes 
are claimed on the photo of oxen and living oxen are got slaughtered. In 
Ahmcdabad alone ten thousand oxen are slaughtered in slaughter house. 
Before twenty years one could get a tin of oil at three rupees and twelve 
annas. Sugar was sold fourteen seers a rupee and ghee was sold one and 
three four seers a rupee. At that time the price of an ox was one hundred 
rupees. Today an ox is not available at four hundred rupees also. When 
an ox was cheap good cultivation could be done. And as religion (duty) 
was followed there used to be good fertility in land and there used to be 
good produce and so there was no dearness. It is said that the production 
has decreased and the population has increased and so there is dearness. 
But twenty Brahmins used to eat 'Ladus (sweets) of one maund. Today 

one hundred and twenty Brahmins eat the said quantity of food. The 

capacity to eat is reduced and there would not be deficit even if the 
population is increased five times. But where there is wickedness, God will 
not be kind. However much schemes may be framed, tractors may be 

brought but we do not get fruit.” 

I may mention that under the order of the Court, official translation of the speeches arc 
ptrt on record but there is dispute as regards the correctness of the translation of certain 
words and sentences. Wherever it is material, I shall indicate this difference and my 
view os regards what is the correct translation. In this passage, the word ‘Dharma* 

appears at two places. The official Translator has translated the word as ‘religion’ but 
has also put into brackets the word ‘duty' indicating that it may mean duty. Mr. Nanavaty 
urges that the word should be so read. Now there can be no doubt that ‘Dharma’ may 
also mean duty in certain context. But having regard to the trend and tenor of the 
whole speech and the context it which it is used, in my view, here it cannot be interpreted 
as duty, I find it difficult particularly in the light of the fact that the word is used in 
context with this sentence : “But the Congress has annihilated religion (Dharma)’’. To 
my mind, it would be incongruous to translate it as duty. 

Now in this opening part of the speech by Shambhul Maharaj it is obvious that he 
propounds the philosophy that to make the people happy or unhappy lies in the hands of 
God -and not in the hands even of good government. But got would be good when 
religion is followed but Congress has annlihilated religion. Then in the subsequent part 
of this impugned speech, the speaker mostly dwelt on permitting of slaughter of ox. the 
high price of necessities of life and criticised the ongress for using the symbol of the 
bullocks with yoke on, for canvassing votes for them and at the same time permitting 
slaughter of live bullocks. He said that Government may give tractors etc. and big 
schemes may be framed but all that will be useless for where there is irreligiuosness, God 
will not be kind. In this passage the word ‘Adharma’ is translated as 'wickedness’.' Mr. 
Nanavaty supports this translation but I think Mr. Deni is right when he urges that here 
too the appropriate translation would be ‘irreligiousness’. But at the same time reading 
the passagi as a whole, as such I- agree with Mr, Nanavaty that it may not amount to 
any corrupt practice because it touches in the main area when it refers to permitting of 
the slaughter of ox, to happiness and unhappiness and religiousness and irrcligiousness, 

the political controversy regarding total ban on cow slaughter and its progeny. It is an 

undisputed fact that Rt that time such a controversy was raging throughout Tndia including 
this part of the country and that even Shankaracharya of Puri had gone on fast on that 
issue. It in substance, therefore, amounts to a criticism of the Congress and the Congress 
Government. But the thing to be noted at this stage is that it refers to the fact that where 
There is irrcligiousness, God is displeased. By itself again it means nothing. We will 

have however to weigh its effect when the impact of the whole speech and when read 

in context with other impugned speeches is to be judged. 

The speaker then criticised strongly the policy of the Congress Government and alleged 
that it has frittered away collosal amount of money in 20 years, Then appeals 
to vote for the Swatantra Paksha and its candidate respondent No. 1. The speaker 
warned the Sarpanchs. the Chairmen of the Co-operative Societies etc. who he alleged 
have been flottering and running after those in power, to serve their own selfish ends. 
Here again 1 agree with Mr. Nanavaty that this part of the speech only deals with the 
criticism of Congress Government. 

Then comes the second impugned portion of the speech which is as follows :— 
“They have not made our lagadguni give up his fasts but they have insulted him. 

Wc have made him give up fasts. So do not be mislead. I have come 



SEC. *(Pi] TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3811 


here after undertaking journey of eight thousand miles. I move three 
hundred miles daily. I have seen that the Svvatantra Party will come and 
the Swatantra Party has given me promise that it will form the Government 
and in its lirst session the slaughter of the progeny of cow that is cow, ox 
and call will be stopped and the farmers will be exempted from land 
revenue. So I have thought that instead of sending cow-loving brothers to 
Jail by offering ‘Satyagraha’ the rest of sinful congress should be uprooted 
by making propaganda. The price of oil has risen to live rupees. The 
congress has created this position. A thing which can be produced in a 
country should be sold cheap. those who did not have chappals in their 
foot have got bungalows and motors and still they are tlot satisfied and 
they have continued to suck blood. If we look from the point of democracy, 
forty crores of people demanded that the cow progeny slaughter should be 
stopped. Still if the Government does not believe it then it is wickedness. 
Cow is a form of goddess of earth and if a cow becomes angry she does 
not give a drop of milk. But if she is satisfied then milk begins to drop 
from her teats. Similarly if Goddess of earth is satisfied then alone there 
would be furtility and we can get more produce. But Ihe Congress by 
getting votes in the name of oxen to has got living oxen slaughtered and 
followed wickedness and so there is no furtility. These two honest congress 
men should have kept symbol of a butcher and then they should have come 
forward to demand votes and see how many votes they get. 'this country 
is robbed for twenty years in the name of Gandhiji. To give vote to this 
congress is to make partnership in their work, if you support some one 
who wants to put up a watering place or to open a dispensary, you will 
get benediction. Hut if fire is to bo set to a cradle of some one and 
support is given then a sin is committed. Similarly if a vote is given to 
congress it would mean that you give co-opepation in slaughtering an ox. 
So you should not become a partner of sin.” 

In this passage also the word ‘Adharma’ is translated again as ‘wickedness’. Here too. 
according to my view, the correct translation should be irreligiousncss, Then the word 
‘Reiman' is translated as ‘two-honest’. This is obviously erroneous. The word means 
‘dishonest’. This passage too, in my mind, cannot fall within the view of the alleged 
corrupt praclice. The substance of (his pari of the speech is strong criticism of Congress 
and the policy of Government and not-prohibiting the slaughter of cows and its progeny. 
It is true that he has said that to permit cow-slaguhtcr is sinful and there of fore'to vote 
for congress is to be parly to the sinful act. But merely because this reference to- 
religious aspect in passing is made while criticising the policy of the Government, would 
not by itself make it a corrupt practice. Once again what effect it can have on the 
overall impact when read with the subsequent part of the speech, I shall discuss a little 
later. But at this stage I do agree with the submission on behalf of respondent No. 1 
that even the word ‘Pap’ that is ‘sin’, if this passage stands by itself, is to be read 
liberally and may be interpreted that it is not such a sin as would necessarily take them 
to hell so that it may imply aspiritual threat amounting to corrupt practice. Then follows 
the third impugned passage which is as follows 

“lagadguru observed fasts for 73 days but the Government did not take it into 
consideration. If a maulvi gives a command to Mahomadan brothers that 
if a person is a follower of Islam he should not vote at all for Congress, 
would any Mahomadan vote for Congress ? Then your religious preceptor 
will command you that not a single vote should be given to Congress. 
Why this Manubhai in contesting elections 7 Not because he may get 
salary of rupees five hundreds. God is kind to him. If he has done 
good deeds in his previous birth, God shows kindess to him. You have 
got such man in this district. He feels that he should get these people 
free from sin. You give him co-operation. The Congress of Gandhiji was 
bound on truth and non-violence. But these people have done everything 
contrary to the same. Formerly when there was famine in the country 
in any particular year double quantity used to grow in the next year and 
there used to be no deficit. But in this state in one year there is famine 
caused by excessive rain and in the next year if there is no famine due to 
scarcity of rain, there would be grass hoppers and if no grass-hoppers then 
there would be frost. There would be something definitely, I, therefore, 
humbly request you that credulous people may desire to cheat you but they 
are to be annihilated. Power remains in the hands of Congress and if you 
support congress you will become partners of sin and you will be ruined. 
And the Swatantra Party whose symbol Is ‘Star’ will save you. I request 
you to make a mark on it. I have come to convey message of Jagadguru. 



3812 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part tl~ 


In this passage the translation is inaccurate at one place where it says “will command 
you”. It should be ‘'commands”. This passage requires careful consideration. The 
speaker here reminds the audience of the fact that Jagadgurn that is to say Shankarcharya 
had been fasting for the last 73 days yet Government has not taken it into consideration. 
Then pointedly draws the attention of the listeners to the fact how the followers of another 
religion would behave if their religious leader were to give a call. He says that if a 
Maulvi were to give a command to Mahomadans not to vote for the Congress would a 
single Mahomadan ever vote for the Congress? Immediately follows the statement” 
then your religious precepter also commands that not a single vote should be given to 
the Congress”. For a while the speaker then explains why Manubhai—respondent No. 1 
has decided to contest the election but then revert# to the subject and tells the voters 
how formerly when there was a famine in this country in a particular year, next year 
double the quantity used to grow and there used to be no deilcit. But tells the audience 

that in this regime in one year there is famine caused by excessive rain and in the next 

year if there is no famine duo to scarcity of rain, there is destruction by locusts and if 
no locusts are there, then there is frost. There is something or other definitely happening. 
He therefore appealed to the audience that these people viz., the Congressmen who were 
trying to cheat the credulous people must be annihilated. If the congress is supported 
and powr continues to remain in their hands, the voters will become partners in the sin 
and they will Ire ruined. If Swatantra Party is voted whose symbol is the star, 

it will save them. He winds up this passage by saying that he has come to give the 

message of Jagadguru, 

Mr. Nanavaty contended that this passage also is inocouous. Even when the speaker 
conveyed that Jagadguru is giving the command, the audience was not likely to be 
affected in any way as the audience would immediately doubt the words of the speaker. 
He urged that in these days of quick and scientific modes of communications they would 
expect Jagadguru to either speak on the radio or publish any written appeal or some 
such method he would adopt if he wanted to communicate such a command. He sub¬ 
mitted that therefore this sort of speech would not have that force which a written appeal 
or personal appeal would make. I find it difficult to agree with Mr. Nanavaty that the 
audience would immediately doubt the words of Shambhu Maharaj because no written 
appeal was made by Shankarcharya or that he had not spoken on the radio. To my mind, 
all depends upon the nature of the audience, the person who is speaking and how it is 
said and in what context it is said. I shall deal with this aspect specifically a little later. 
But in my view this passage read by itself or in context with the whole speech does 
fall within the purview of the corrupt practice alleged. As we have noted, in the very 
beginning of the speech the speaker had played up upon the religious sentiments of his 
listemers- by impressing on the mind of his listeners that in this world even the best of 
Government cannot give any happiness and it is God alone who can give happiness. But 
God will never help if religion is not followed. He then pointed out that the Congress 
was not following religion and is conmiilting a sin by not stopping slaughter of cow 
and its progeny, Thus he tried to cast a spell over the mind of the audience, of religious 
beliefs of divine benevolence when religion is followed and divine displeasure where 
relion is not followed or sin is committed. Then after touching some other topics he 
comes to the portion of the—speech wherein in the first part he draws the attention 
pointedly to the 73 days' long fast of Jagadguru and the apathy of the Government in 
respect thereof. Then he whets lip the feelings of the Hindu audience by placing the 
challenging question to his listeners that if a Maulvi were to give a call to the 
Mohamadans not to vote for Congress, would a single Mohamadan vote for the Congress. 
This question was posed obviously with the intention to excite fanatism. He then comes 
out with the command of Jagadguru by saying then your religious preceptor also commands 
that not a single vote should be given to the Congress. There is little doubt that the 
speaker incited the religious feelings of the Hindu voters by telling how the—followers of 
the other religion would react to—the command of their religious leader and then 
Impressing on that the religious leader also command that they should not vote for 
the Congress because Congress was irreligious as it permitted slaughter of cows and its 
progeny and to stop this sin their religious head had gone on fast which was ignored by 
the Congress Government and therefore the Jagadguru commanded them not to become 
partners in the sin by voting for Congress and returning them to power, This by itself 
accounts to spirtual threat as implicit in this is the threat of divine displeasure or spiritual 
displcasuro if the command of the religious head is not headed to. But what is more 
Important to note is that the speaker does not stop at that. He, after playing upon tho 
imnds and religious sentiments of the audience on this aspect went on to rub in further 
the fact that all the natural calamities that befall the country in recent year was the 
consequence of the sinful congress regime. There is a powerful subtle suggestion 
pervading the speech that Ihe calamities and all the unhappiness they were experiencing 
were not due to any failure of economic policy of Government but they were due to the 
irrcligiousness sinful attitude of the Congress Government, Then he directly told them 




SEC* 3(il,1 THE OAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 38l3 


that if mspite of all (his, they were to vote for the Congress, they will be nothing less 
than to be partners in the sin and there wiH beruination and again ends up this part of 
his speech by repeating that he had come to convey the message of Jagadguru, Spoken 
at this juncture and in the context of what he said before this, would definitely convey 
to the lislcrners that all that ho had said was the message of Shankarcharya himself who 
had conveyed to them that Clod was—displeased because of Congress; calamities were 
the cosequence of (he Congress regime which did not prevent slaughter of cows and its 
progeny and they should not therefore vole for Congress, otherwise they themselves would 
be sinners. Apart therefore from the four of becoming object of divine displeasure or 
spiritual censure on breaking the command of the religious leader, there was the message 
from that leader that if they vote for the Congress, they will bring ruination and will 
commit a sin. Thus the voters were directly told that if they were to vote for the 
Congress, they will render themselves the object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure. 
Under the circumstances, I find it impossible to accept Mr. Nanavaty’s say that the main 
theme in this passage is only a political crilicism of the policy of Government on failure 
to enforce total ban on slaughter of cow and its progeny. The shift of emphasis is 
positive and to obvious to bo ignored however liberally the speech may be construed 
keeping in mind the principles laid down by the Supreme Court as there was a clear 
inducement to moke the voters believe that because of all calamities was the Congress 
regime which was sinful and God was displeased and that therefore their religious head 
commands not to vote for the Congress for to vote for them will be nothing else but 
committing a sin; that they shall not disobey the command of their Dharamaguru just 
as the Mohomadan would not. It is difficult indeed then to come to the conclusion that 
this would not induce a belief in the listerncrs that if they were to vote for the congress 
candidate, they will be rendered objects of divine displeasure and spiritual censure. 

But the speech is not yet over. There is one more impugned passage to be considered 
and it is as follows:— 

“Many people ask me that Congress men are happy and although we are working 
hard we are unhappy. By quoting an instance and giving a lengthy explana¬ 
tion it was said that there were a goat and a dog at the place of a butcher, 
the butcher used to give good articles of food to the goat but he was not 
giving the same to the dog. So the dog used to feel unhappy. The dog 
was not favoured. But one day the butcher came with a knife and so the 
dog felt that the butcher would kill him but the butcher cut the goat. 
Therefore you should not believe that God is kind to congressmen ‘Bakri-Id’ 
is coming and so we shall take care. But you remember I give you promise 
that you should keep full faith in Swatantra Parly on 18th instant and you 
should not give your vote to those four obdurate persons who make (people) 
drink liquor and come for votes. To vote for them is to give a knife in the 
hand of a butcher. Shri Jagadguru Shankarcharya, the religious preceptoT 
of us, forty crorcs of Hindus commands that a real Hindu would not give 
a single vote to Congress. We are Hindus and have our culture. We are 
ready to sacrifice ourselves for our religion and so vole is of no value. 
We are not to lose anything in this. J, therefore, humbly request you and 
ensure you that Swatantra Party will do your work and you should vote for 
candidates of Swatantra Party. 

The first part of this passage is innocuous by itself. He only tries by a simile to describe 
the Congressmen and conveys to his audience that their days were not numbered as the 
election was nearby. But then he again returns to make a powerful appeal to his listeners 
majority of whom are proved to be Hindus, in the name of Jagadguru who was, he said, 
the religious head of forty crorcs of Hindus and who commanded them that no person 
who really believes in Hindu religion should give his vote to the Congress. Then again 
there is an appeal to their religious sentiments by telling them that Hindus have bad their 
own culture behind them and Hindus have been always ready to give any sacrifice for 
their religion, so they should not vote for—Congress. So have again he told the listeners 
in the name of Shankarcharya that as Hindus, he commanded them not to vote for 
Congress. 

As regards the reference to natural calamities in this part of his speech which was— 
depicted as a result or effect of the sinful congress regime as it did not ban saughter of 
cow and its progeny, Mr. Nanavaty had a submission to make. He contended that because 
and effect reasoning cannot have any repercussion on the mind of the listeners unless it is 
a statement of fact that is to say the calamities as listed by the speaker in his speech had 
as a matter of fact occurred. Otherwise the listeners would put aside this part of the 
speech as a mere tall talk on the part of the speaker. Here too I find myself unable to 
accept the reasoning of the learned Advocate. It may be that there was some exaggeration 
in the statement hut there is no doubt that the country had suffered fropt one or the 



3814 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


other calamity in one form or the other in one or the other part of the country and agricul¬ 
ture and its produce had several set backs, in recent years. This appeal was being made 
by the speaker before the rural population who were hit harder than the urban popula¬ 
tion in this respect, and this reference was bound to make a deeper impression on their 
mind. 

On behalf of the petitioner, reliance was placed on the decision of the High Court 
In Election Petition No. 3 of 1967 wherein the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj in the 
election—campaign at other places came in for construction by that Court. My attention 
was drawn particularly two or three passages with which the Court was concerned in 
that case which arc very similar to those in this speech Ex. R-l particularly the reference 
to the mandate of Jagadguru Shankarcharyn and the natural calamities and their cause 
and effect and situation in respect thereof. Divan J. who decided that matter has a very 
similar reasoning come to the same conclusion as I have and I may refer with advantage 
to relevant portion. One of the impugned passages there was as follows :— 

“For example, if any maulvi from Macca has fasted for 73 days and had given 
such a mandate to our Muslim brothers, then would they have voted for the 
Congress. That you have to consider, In the same manner, if Fateh Singh, 
the religious leader of Sikhs, had fasted for 73 days, would they [Sikhs) 
have voted for the congress ? Tn the same manner if there were parsis or 
Christians, then they also would vote for their religious preceptor. This is 
what you have to consider. The mandate of your religious preceptor is that 
do not cast your vote for anyone, the mandato of the Jagadguru is that 1st 
cows be slaughtered, 1st bullocks bo slaughtered. In Gujarat State though 
there is ban, still bullocks are allowed to be slaughtered; the bullocks which 
give every individual happiness throughout the life. This Government asks 
for vote in tho name of the bullocks (the Congress party election symbol 
being a pair of bullocks with yoke on) and I am, therefore, having an 
experience. Do not vote for the Congress for voting for the congress and 
by putting the mark of voting on the symbol of bullocks, amounts to 
cutting the throat of a bullock by a knife symolised by your vote. It is my 
manudatc that you should not do this daslerdly act.” 

The learned Judge in respect of ths passago has observed that it was to bo remembered 
that Shambhu Maharaj himself was not the religious leader of any section of the people. 
He himself merely purported to convey to the electors the mandate of the—Jagadguru 
Sbankarcharya of Puri. To that extent, Shambhu Maharaj was merely a conduit-pipe 
purporting to convey the message of Jagadguru to the voters but all the same he has 
urged before the electors that it was a mandate from the religious leader that they should 
not vote for the Congress Party-candidate, The learned Judge goes on to say that if tho 
wrods had merely rested with the mandate, then there would have been something to be 
said in favour of the first respondent so far ns this particular passage was concerned. 
But the contest in which this mandate was set out, viz., comparing Hindus with Muslims, 
Sikhs, Parsis and Christians and stating that numbers of other communities would not 
have disegarded the mandate of their own religious leaders, if such leaders had fasted 
for 73 days, is very material. That the voters have been asked in the name of the 
mandate from their religious leader not to vote for the Congress Party. The learned 
Judge then relied upon Ram Dial's case (supra) and observed that it was clear in his 
mind that in the name of Shankarcharya of Purl in the context of hi* 
fast for 73 days, an appeal in the name of religion was made by Shambhu Maharaj to the 
electors in this meeting, and there was implicit in its divine displeasure or spiritual censure 
if this particular mandate purporting to come from Shankarcharya of Puri was not to bo 
obeyed. The learned Judge has further observed that what was being put forward in 
that particular passage before the electors was tho imagined conduct of Muslims, Sikhs, 
Parsis and Christians on the one hand and Hindus as a community on the other Hindu* 
Is followers of a particular religion are asked to obey the mandate issued by their own 
Jagadg,uru, iwho had fasted for 73 days and in the cause of ban on cow-slaughter and 
against that background it has been stated that voting for the Congress would amount to 
killing cows and bullocks and this act has been referred to as a dastardly act. Tho- 
learned Judge has therefore emphasized the fact by putting into juxtaposition/the Muslims. 
Sikhs, Parsis and Christians on the one hand obeying the mandate of their religious leaders 
and Hindus on the other. He therefore concluded that there could be no doubt that in 
that passage Shambhu Maharaj had put forward an appeal to the electors not to vote for 
the Congress Party in the name of the religion and secondly though there may not be any 
threat of divine displeasure in this passage in expressing terms, implicit in it was the 
threat that those who did not obey the mandate of Jagadguru would be incurring spiritual 
censure or divine displeasure. 

Mr, Nanavatv argued that the command of Jagadguru cannot have any effect even 
If spoken by Shambhu Maharaj unless it is proved that as a matter of fact such a mandate 



»•„ ?«0] IHt GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3815 

was given by him and that Shambhu Maharaj was authorised to convey that candidate. 

I am not able to accept this submission of Mr. Nanavaty. What we are concerned with 
is to see the impact of these statements falling from the mouth of Shambhu Maharaj 
before his audience.. The actual truth of what he said has hardly any place in determining 
whether Shambhu Maharaj had induced or attempted to induce the specific belief. Mr. 
Nanavaty had however reasoned that Divan J. came to the conclusion that he did because 
he had actually assumed that the mandate in fact was given and Shambhu Maharaj was 
authorised to convey that message. He pointed out that the learned Judge has said that 
Shambhu Maharaj was merely a conduit pipe which necessarily implied that there was in 
fact the mandate and therefore something which existed passed through Shambhu 
Maharaj who acted as a conduit pipe, I am unable to read any such implication 
in the said observations of the learned Judge. Reading this passage carefully, on the 
contrary, I find that the learned Judge has advisedly used the words “purporting to 
convey the message” of—Jagadguru to the voters “immediately in context with the 
expression conduit pipe". Again even earlier, he has said “Ho (Shambhu Maharaj) himself 
merely purported to convey to the electors the mandate of Jagadguru Shankarcharya" and 
even latter again we find the words “if this particular mandate purporting to come from 
Shankaracharya of Puri were not to be obeyed”. Reading the passage as a whole therefore 
the impression that is carried in my mind is that the learned Judge only meant to say 
that when the purported message of Shankaracharya was placed before the audience, though 
Shambhu Maharaj was not himself a religious leader, this act of his whereby he purported 
to convey the mandats of Shankaracharya, it was sufficient to impress the audience that 
a mandate by Shankaracharya was given. By the use of the word ‘conduit pipe’ I think 
he only wants to convey that Shambhu Maharaj appeared to be a conduit pipe through 
whom the message was delivered to the listeners I regret, therefore, that I am not able 
to accept this submission of Mr. Nanavaty. 

The second passage with which Divan J. was concerned is as follows :_ 

"The Congress says that it has brought happiness and will give happiness In future; 
but even a father cannot give happiness to his son, nor can a son give 
happiness to his father. Giving happiness rests in the hands of God. But 
God gives happiness where there is religion. He does not give happiness to 
the irreligious. 

* * * * 

Formerly there were no famines. Possibly once in 100 years there might 
be one famine. As against that now-a-days every year there is some natural 
calamity like a famine. Either there is no rain or there is frost or there 
is visitation of locusts or there is some disease in the crops and some 
calamity or the other is constantly visiting us. The reason for this is that 
Congress permits slaughter of 33,000 bullocks everyday. When slaughter 
of cows is banned, bullocks are allowed to be slaughtered. In Gujarat 
12,000 bullocks are being slaughtered,” 

As regards this passage, the learned Judge found that a cause add effect relationship 
between the natural calamities on the one hand and the slaughter of cows and bullocks 
which was permitted by the Congress Government on the other had been put forward 
before the voters by Shambhu Maharaj. 'the listeners were informed in clear terms that 
the natural calamities like famine, frost, visitation of locusts or disease in crops were all 
due to the permission for slaughtering of cows and bullocks grauted by the Congress 
Party, Thus the voters were told that natural calamities, which visit only the irreligious, 
were due to the action of the Congress Party in permitting the said slaughter and then 
the voters were asked not to vote for the congress but to vote for the Swatantra Party 
candidate. Various other topics regarding economics, agriculture and politics were dis¬ 
cussed in the course of his speech but the direct causal relationship between the cow- 
slaughter and the natural calamities clearly shows that the voters were told that if they 
did not want such natural calamities to visit them, they should not vote for the Congress 
Party and thus avoid the divine displeasure, which was responsible for those natural 
calamities. The learned Judge has also observed that in the beginning the voters were 
told that happiness could come only from God and God could give happiness to the 
religious and not to the irreligious. Within a short time thereafter, a reference to natural 
calamities was made and they were told that they were all due to cow-slaughter being 
granted by the Congress Party. He came to the conclusion that reading those passage 
together, there could be no doubt that the electors were told not to vote for the Congress 
Party and in order to secure their happiness as religious minded people and to avoid 
being irreligious, not to vote for the Congress Party but to vote for the Swatantra Paksha. 
The Reading of the two passages together, would only seen that they amounted to 
interference with the ex free exercise of the electoral right of the voters by holding 
out threats and divine displeasure and spiritual censure. 



3816 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 


[Pari IT— 


The last passage in the said case was as follows:_ 

lyVZltl want^oTy\ F that if SwXTra°Party comes 

£ P K r r* y r^ , 'Lrs jg\s:x <2*3 

rams, there is a famine all there are due to the workings of God l.va v-d iv 
rate n t y hat l and r0 ho S arC l ? einB sl ^^tered, then®how oSd wll ole- 

rate tnat and how will you get happiness? 

. * * * 

♦ * * 

Look at the Congressmen who are destroyers of Hindu Religion; 
* * * « 

Every' year we get one or the other natural calamity like excessive rain or 
failure of rain or earthquake. This happened because they ask for votes in 
the name of live bullocks, whereas they get the bullocks slaughtered The 
symbol should be of butcher and except ruthless and hard-hearted Congress 
nobody else will get bullocks slaughtered.” 


In respect of this passage, the learned Judge's reasoning was that reading the first and 
the third parts of this passage, it was clear that Shambhu Maharaj was putting before 
the audience the cause and effect relationship between the natural calamities and the 
displeasure of God because of the large number of cows being slaughtered in the country. 
For the reasons that the learned Judge adopted for second passage 'to which I have made 
reference, he came to the conclusion that this also amounted to corrupt practice under 
section 123(2), proviso (a) (ii) of the Act. These observations of the learned Judge on 
these three passages fully support the view I have taken on the passages almost similar 
in wording on a similar reasoning. 


It was Mr. Nanavaty’s contention that before a mandate can be said to have any effect 
or to induce a belief of the impugned nature, it must be shown that the audience was of 
such a character as could be said to be the followers of Shankaracharya who believed 
that he was their religious bead or that they consisted of persons as would accept as 
true all that was said by Shambhu Maharaj. It was argued that there was no evidence 
that the people of these localities believed Shankaracharya to be their religious head nor 
was there any evidence to show that Shambhu Maharaj was persona grata with the 
people of these places where these three speeches were made. The stand that Shunkara- 
charya is not shown to have been accepted as their religious head by the people of these 
places was taken for the first time on behalf of respondent No. 1 at the time of the 
arguments. In the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj, passages whereof have been 
incorporated in the petition, it is affirmed that he was tlvs religious head of flic Hindus 
numbering not less than forty crores. The respondent No. 1 does not seem to have 
demurred by even suggested in his long detailed written statement that Shankaracharyai 
was not—believed to tie the religious leader of Hindus by the people of those localities. 
On the contrary when the additional written statement was filed after the last amendment 
of the petition was allowed, wc find the following averments therein: that “The petitioner 
has not shown or even alleged that Shankaracharya had in fact conveyed any message 
or mandate to the audience through Shambhu Maharaj at the several places where 
Shambhu Maharaj is alleged to have spoken”. Further on it has also been mentioned 
that it was the submission of the respondent in the alternative that unless Shankaracharya 
had himself given any mandate or message to Hindus or unless the person who speaks 
in the name of Shankaracharya or purports (o convey any message or mandate from 
Shankaracharya discloses any due authority from-—Shankaracharya to the audience to whom 
he is addressing the alleged message or mandate of Shankaracharya as conveyed by the 
speaker cannot solve cause any effect on the voters so as to take away their freedom— 
of choice of candidate. Further as it is said that is is not shown by the petitioner nor 
is alleged that Shankaracharya of Puri besides undertaking fast-—demanding complete 
ban on cow-slaughter and slaughter of milch cattle had made any public statement or 
had in anv manner exhorted voters not to vote for—Congress candidates at the general 
election It is then stated that it was therefore improbable—that if the audience which 
was addressed at several places by Shambhu Maharaj would take it that there was a 
mandate or message from Shankaracharya to them not to vote for Congress, when Shankara¬ 
charya himself had not issued any such public statement at any time before the election. 
Implicite in these statements and reasoning is the fact that it was not contended that 
Shankaracharya was the religious leader of the Hindus and the only contention was that 
it was not shown that this religious leader had as a matter of fact issued such a mandate 
and alternatively that unless such a mandate or message was given personally by Shankara¬ 
charya, It cannot have the alleged effect. But apart from that as I shall point out. under 
the facts of the present case. It would not he necessary even to prove as an established fact 
that the listeners were actually the followers of Shankaracharya. 



SBC i(i»)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 18911 3817 


Ai regard* Shambhu Maharaj, it is true that he was not any religious leader as such. 
But there is evidence to show that ho is Kirtankar of repute, that he is well known for hia 
Bhagvat Saptahs. The evidence has disclosed that he was a respected person and was 
connected with the propagation of theology of Hindu Religion. His speeches would also 
indicate that he was in good demand for Bhagvat Saptah. It is true that contents of the 
speeches themselves where the speaker says something about himself may not be evidence 
by itself but it may indicate that the witnesses of the petitioner when they said that he is 
a religious minded person and well respected, there is no reason to disbelieve them on that 
point..—Witness No. 10 for the Petitioner—Ganeshbhai Jathabhai Patel has said that he was 
working for the—Swatantra Paksha during the election period; Punambhai had entrusted 
him with the work of carrying on propaganda for Manubhai in Cadh Circle. He had 
suggested to Punambhai that the voters in that locality were uneducated and they had 
deep belief in religion. Therefore it would help in the propaganda for securing voter if 
a meeting was held in that locality wherein Shambhu Maharaj came and addressed the 
meeting, and therefore Punambhai had arranged a meeting on the 9th of February 1967 at 
Cadh in which Shambhu Maharaj had delivered his speech. In cross-examination this 
witness has said that he had heard Shambhu Maharaj twice or thrice at Palanpur. Now 
it is true that Punambhai has denied having had a talk with Ganeshbhai during the period 
of the election. But he admitted that he had met him after the election. He was not 
prepared to deny straightway the claim of Ganeshbhai but he had worked for the 
Swatantra Paksha during the election and he merely said that he did not know whether 
he did the propaganda work on behalf of the Swatantra Paksha or not because he had not 
gone to Doosa assembly constituency, He denied that Ganeshbhai had made any sugges¬ 
tion for calling Shambhu Maharaj. Even as regards the meeting at Cadh, in cross-examina¬ 
tion Punambhai said, ho did not remember whether on the 9th there was a meeting at 
Cadh or not. In the light of the fact that this witness Ganeshbhai has changed his affinity 
and had worked for tho congress after the election, in the Panehayat election, he cannot be 
said to be an—independent witness. But so is Punambhai not an independent witness, 
and here there are circumstances which make no accept Ganeshbhai’s evidence of Punam¬ 
bhai. Punambhai’s evidence on the point is not such as inspires confidence. Punambhai 
had also tried in the beginning to suggest in his evidence—that ho had never arranged any 
meetings of—Shambhu Maharaj but then subsequently had to admit that he had instructed 
the Swatantra Paksha—Palanpur that if Gauvadh Andolan Samiti is desirous of holding 
meetings of Shambhu Maharaj, then facilities for holding such meetings should be given. 
He said that he did not remember whether before the 8th and 9th of February and after 
]4th of January, any meetings of Shambhu Maharaj were held in this area or not. But 
then he remembers that on the 26th of January a meeting of Shambhu Maharaj was 
arranged at Tlmrad by the Swatantra Paksha and he had published a pamphlet lor calling 
this meeting under his signature as the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha. Then again 
he evaded the question and said that he did not remember whether he had arranged with 
Shambhu Maharaj to come and speak in tho meeting at Vav and Thurad and other meet¬ 
ings for the 8th and 9th of February. But he did admit later that he had—accompanied 
Shambhu Maharaj at Dhima and that he had also gone to the meetings of Iqbalgadh, 
Amirgadh and Vav. He said that it was not true that in the—meetings In which he was 
present, Shambhu Maharaj had appealed to tho voters to vote for respondent No. 1. Now 
this is obviously inconsistent with the reports of the meetings to which I have already- 
referred to. This is the nature of the evidence of Punambhai. Tn his evidence, he has 
not tried to suggest at all that Shambhu Maharaj was persona grata with the people or 
his words would not be accepted as true statements or that when in his presence Shambhu 
Maharaj said that there was a mandate from Shankaracharya, it was not likely to be 
believed to be true. At this stage it would not be out of place to consider the question 
of burden of proof. There can be no doubt whatever that the burden of proving—corrupt 

practice is all through-out ott the petitioner who alleges that the corrupt practice has been_ 

committed. But the burden so stated is the legal burden of proof. But the phrase ‘burden 
of proof has two distinct meanings viz. (i) the burden of proof as a matter of adducing 
evidence and in its second meaning it keeps shifting from shoulder to shoulder as the 
evidence is led in a given case, vide Sheopal Singh v. Ram Pratap, A.T.R. 1956 
S.C. 677. Here to my mind, so far as this aspect of the case is concerned, the petitioner 
has led evidence on the record to show that Shambhu Maharaj was a man—respected and 
he was a person who had his activities mostly connected with the Hindu religion and a man 
of repute. I feel all the more convinced, because Shambhu Maharaj appears to have been 
considered even bv Punambhai and the Swatantra Paksha as a matter of fact, to be a person 
whose word would carrying weight with the electorate of that part. It is true that Punambhai 
has tried to suggest that the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj on the 8th and 9th were not 
arranged by the Swatantra Paksha but were arranged by Gauvadh Andolan Samiti. All through¬ 
out this proceeding, there Is no such suggestion to any of the witnesses of the—-petitioner 
nor has any such stand been taken in the written statement, I am Inclined to think that 




3818 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Pari II— 


this is put forward for the first time in order to—escape liability. But even then he had 
to admit that he himself was a member of that Samiti and he had actually instructed the 
Swatantra Paksha to give all convenience and help to hold meetings of Shambhu Maharaj 
if such help was asked for by the Gauvadh Andolan Samiti. As already pointed out, ho 
himself was the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha. Not only that but there is also the 
evidence, as already pointed out, that on the 26th of January, actually a pamphlet was 
published by him as the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha for holding the meeting of 
Shambhu Maharaj. Under the circumstances, I am not prepared to accept the statement 
of—Punambhai that the meetings of 8th and 9th were not arranged by him as the organiser 
of the Swatantra Paksha. This indicates that the Swatantra Paksha did think that Shambhu 
Maharaj was a speaker whose word carried weight with the listeners of the locality and would 
help in swaying the min d of the electorate in favour of respondent No. 1 and the candidates 
of the Swatantra Paksha. 


While I am considering this question as regards the effect of the Impact of the speech 
of Shambhu Maharaj and the status of Shankaracharya and Shambhu Maharaj, one of the 
facts to be taken into account is the kind of character of voters before whom speeches were 
made. It is true as was held in VII Guj. L.R. 753 (supra) the character of the audience 
cannot be considered to be a condition precedent to the determination of the question as 
to whether a corrupt practice alleged has been committed or not. But as pointed out in 
that case, under certain facts and circumstances, it is a relevant factor to be taken into 
account while judging the issue. In the present case, the—petitioner has produced the last 
census report of the year 1961. He has also produced certain extracts in English from 
that report, Mr. Nanavaty fairly did not object to its production. This census report in¬ 
dicates that in the localities where the speeches were made, the percentage of population 
of the Hindus is almost 90 per cent. It also shows that out of the percentage of total 
population in the rural area is 6.68 per cent is of the Scheduled Tribes. As regards 
literacy we find that in Palanpur rural area the per ccntage is 14.92 per* cent in Vav, 
Thorad and Radhanpur area it is 7.64, 6.96 and 6.77 —respectively. It is true that as this 
census report is of 1961, thereafter some changes must have taken place but even giving a 
fair margin for the changes, it can be seen that the majority of population in the locality 
is of the Hindus; that the r e are Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes people in the rural 
area and that perentage of literacy is very low. Witnesses of the petitioner have given 
some idea about the types of persons who attended the meetings. They said most of them 
were Hindus and Punambhai has conceded that in the areas where speeches of Shambhu 
Maharaj were held, majority of the population is of Hindus. The evidence on the part of 
the petitioner also shows that most of the persons who attended those meetings were Adi- 
vasis or Raharis, But even if this oral evidence is not given much weight, the official 
record that I have mentioned does indicate the character of the persons of the locality who 
must have attended the meetings. The impact of the speeches, therefore, on the mind of 
such auidcnces has to be judged. The petitioner’s witnesses have also suggested that people 
in the locality were religious minded. But even this aspect may not be taken into consi¬ 
deration. To my rnind^ under the facts and circumstances of this case and having regard 
to the character of the voters to whom Shambhu Maharaj had addressed, even though there 
may be no direct evidence to sbow that the listeners were actual followers of Shankara¬ 
charya, or that there is no direct mandate of the Shankaracharya, the speeches must be held 
to have had the tendency to make Hindus voters having ordinary religious beliefs of the 
Hindus to believe that if they were to contravene the command of Jagadguru, they would 
be betraying their religious leader particularly in view of the fact that he had staked his 
life in the cause of prevention of slaughter of cow and its progeny which to mind has come 
religious significance to the Hindus. It would also appear to his listeners that they will 
commit a sin if they voted for the congress which would render them objects of divine dis¬ 
pleasure bringing in its wake ruination. They may also have the foreboding that they may 
have to suffer more natural calamities if they were to vote for the Congress, as the sinful 
congress regime was said to be the cause of the natural calamities they have had to 
undergo In this respect, I may again refer to the case of VII Guj, L.R.P. 753 (supra) 
wherefn It is observed that the matter is also not to be tested from the point of view of a 
highly Intelligent and—sophisticated voter. It has necessarily to be tested from the P°"it 
0/view of an ordinary voter, subject to be swayed, specially if an appeal h *fP“ s ^ 
made by a religious leader by motions of his future spintua 1 welfar(e or ul imatc Salvatu*n. 
Similar is the view taken by Divan. J. in Election Petition No. 3 of 1967 (supra). 

Mr Nanvaty then urged that in the decision of Ram Dial v, Sant Lai and others (supra) 
the Supreme Court is directly dealing with the case of the alleged corrupt practice under pro¬ 
viso (a) (li) of section 123(2) and therefore it is not possible in the present case to any even 
though it may have been possible to say in Vn Guj. J.R. 753 that the ratio of the decision 
was not that the words the religious head used in a document, or uttered in his speeches 





■Sue. 3fiD] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BH/.DUA 2, 1S9C 3819 


•would amount to corrupt practice only if they leave no choice to the persons addressed by 
■him, in the exercise of their-—electoral rights. Therefore, unless the—appeal is of such 
a character as leaves—-no choice to the persons addressed by him to the exercise of their 
electoral right, it would not amount to corrupt practice. Assuming for argument’s sake 
that the said proposition, is the ratio of that Supreme Court decision and is applicable to 
the present case, even then to my mind, the present speech cannot escape falling within the 
purview of that ratio. As pointed out the audience consisted of the rural population of 
the Hindus unsophisticated backward class people most of them illiterate and the effect of 
the speech as indicated was three fold (1) that their religious head had commanded them 
not to vote and contravention thereof would amount to betrayal of their religious head, 
(ii) that the mandate of the religious head was that it would be a sin to vote for congress 
which would bring ruination, as the congress was irreligious and sinful and (iii) that they 
should not vote for Congress because if they did, they will commit a sin which would visit 
them with further calamities. All this would have at least the tendency to induce the voters 
to believe that if they did vote for the Congress, they will be rendered objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure. There can be hardly any better case where it can be said 
that the voters were left with no choice but to vote for the Swatantra Party candidate and 
not to vote for the Congress Party candidate. 

I will now deal with the two other speeches made by Shambhu Maharaj. I do not 
propose to deal with these two speeches in details as the pattern and tone thereof are similar 
to the one in Ex. B-l. I have examined the impugned passages, keeping in mind the 
principle that they are to be judged in the setting of the whole speeches I found that they 
stand on the same basis as those already considered at same length appearing in report 
Ex. B-l. In the speech Ex. B-3 made at Amirgarh soon after he opened his speech, 
Shambhu Maharaj has said that he had come to give the mandate of lagadguru. A little 
thereafter follows the impugned passage which is as follows:— 

"You yourself may say who has killed Gandhiji, these congressmen or Godsc? Sun 
rises and twenty two thousand cows arc slaughtered. In countries like Pakis¬ 
tan and Afganistan the cow-slaughter is prohibited. In Madhya Pradesh ox- 
slaughtering is prohibited before ten days. When I observed fast four hundred 
Mohammadan brothers had observed fast with us. The Swatantra Party gave 
me promise that after the Swatantra Party comes to power an ordinance will 
be issued by the Governor in its first session and slaughtering of cow-progeny 
will be exempted. So I stopped civil disobedience and I have started to 
awaken the people. In Ahmcdabad there is prohibition on cow-slaughter but 
the slaughtering of calf and ox is—continued, The earth took the form of cow 
and if the said Gaumata or ox is slaughtered how can the earth be satisfied 
and as long as the earth is not satisfied how can there be fortility in the 
earth?" 

In my judgment, this passage by itself cannot be held to fall within the vice of section 
123(2) proviso (a) (ii) of the Act. The second passage is as follows:— 

‘To compare congress with Ravan is to defame him. One Hajrat Bal was removed 
and it was required to be brought in four days. Sant Fatehsingh observed fasts 
and the Government had to bow down in nine days. The Government bows 
down before those who take out ‘Kirpan’ (chisel) and when we pray with 
folded hands it mocks at us. In foreign countries Hindus are put to shame. 
People spit at Hindus and they pass bitter remarks and say ‘Brave to five 
crores Mohammadan-brothers that they brought Hairat Bal, Brave to forty loos 
Sikhs that they have taken Chandigarh and fie to your forty crores Hindus that 
the religious-preceptor is required to observe fasts for seventy days and suffer 
torments and still the Government does not listen. When the Lord Bishop 
came to Bombay these leaders had gone to wash his feet. For the sake of 
Dalailama enmity is created with China and when the religious prccepter 
of its own country observes fasts for 73 days no bristle of Government 
moves. Out of forty crores may have fallen and over ten crores 
Bahuchraji may have shown favour but Jagadguru must have this much confi¬ 
dence that twenty crores brave Hindus are his supporters. They will act 
according to my command. Guru Govind Singh had said “Death is certain 
then why not die properly, that is not to sat ‘Shria’ (sweets) and ‘puri’ and 
then die but it is a matter of becoming immortal by dying for ‘Gaumata’ 
(cow) and for mother land." 

In this passage the speaker has referred to the loss of Hazrat Bal and its recovery within 
four days and then to the fact of Sant Fatehsingh and Government yielding to the pressure 
of that fast. Then to pointed out the fact that in foreign countries, Hindus were put to 



3820 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part II — 


shame and people pass bitter remarks. While prasing the Muhammadans and the Sikhs- 
he criticised the Hindus that their religious-preceptor should have been forced to observe 
a fast lor seventy days and sillier torments and the colousness of the Government 
about it. Then he refers to the fact that Jugadguru at least must be having this much con¬ 
fidence in at least twenty crorcs of Hindus who are his supporters that they will act accord¬ 
ing to his command, Now tills passage cannot by itself be held to contravcno tho relevant 
provisions of law. But this reference to the mandate from Jagadguru referred to in the 
manner hereabove will have to be considered later in context with the other impugned 
passages. The third impugned passage is as follows:— 

"In the year 1942 sixteen Ihcs and in 1946 twenty four lacs and in 1947 after India 
became separate and at present about one crore cows are slaughtered. 
You say whether to vote for Congress is to become partner in sin or any thing 
else. If you give cooperation for good cause you may get good fruit and if 
you co operate in committing a sin you become partners of sin. Why you 
become a partner of sin by giving voles to Congress? I have travelled eight 
thousand miles and I am satisfied that the Swatantra Parly is going to form 
Government. Our religious preceptor has issued a command that the Con¬ 
gress Government have insulted forty crores of Hindus and therefore they 
should do such a thing that the Congress candidates even forfeit then- 
deposit and they should not vote for Congress as they w-ould also become 
partners In the sin if they were to do so. Reading the two passages together 
therefore there is a clear transagression of the provisions of section 123(2) 
(ii) as I have already discussed. 

In his speech at Vav which is Ex. B-4 the first impugned passage is as follows:—. 

“Any best Government or Institution can give you means but God alone gives 
happiness. A Government may give you 100 bighas land for doing cultivation 
and give you loan for purchasing oxen. If you have cultivated 100 bighas 
cotton and hard frost falls then? And if wheat is cultivated and the red chalk 
falls then? If good ox is bought and he dies then? I, therefore, say that Gov¬ 
ernment can give means but happiness can be given by God alone. And with¬ 
out the grace of God there cannot be happiness. You can get favour from 
God when religion is acted upon. Do you feel that congress has allowed 
religion to remain? At present it is asking for votes on the symbol of Ox. 
The same Congress gives, permit to Slaughter 9060 oxen every year In the 
slaughter house at Ahmcdabad. If there is any congressman here he may bo 
called. And if Sbantilal Shah or G. G. Mehta says that the said statement is 
false I shall close the propaganda." 

In this passage the speaker has merely expounded the philosophy as he had done in the 
case of his speech at Tqbalgadh that God alone can give happiness and not even the best 
Government which can only five nv-a'-s bur. not happiness and that God will only give 
happiness or favour persons where religion is followed. He then posed the question 
whether they felt that Congress had allowed the religion to remain. then he answered by 
saying that it cannot be so said because Congress Government was allowing cow-slaughter 
and slaughter off its progeny bv the thousands. This aspect T have considered while deal¬ 
ing with the first speech and I need not repeat. The second impugned part of that speech 
is as follows :— 

“This Congress h is taken awav monev. land, Gold everything from us. But when 
the talk of taking away religion which is a means to get heaven—to improve tbo 
other world took place Jagadguru required to observed fasts . When one 
‘Hazrat Bal’ was removed to Kashmir it was required to be brought and placed 
again in four days. Sant Fatchsingh observed fasts and the Government bowed 
down on the ninth day. People believing in Hazrat Bal keep knife. The 
followers of Fatchsingh keep chisel. There Government shiver, And when we 
make demands with folded hands it mocks at us. The Government has not 
made Jagadguru give up his fasts but we have made him give up the fasts so 
do not be mislead. Those people become hot excited soon and become calm 
also soon. We have not become hot (excited) and when we become hot 
(excited) we do not become calm soon. And when forest falls the roots of 
trees also get burnt. The people do not know it. These people have Insulted 
us. And the students living in foreign countries write In letters that we are 
insulted have people spit at us and say "Brave to five-crores Mohammadans that 
in four days Hazrat Bal was brought. Brave to 40 lacs Sikhs who have taken 
Chandigarh and fie to you. Hindus, that Jagadguru of 40 crores of Hindus in 
required to observe fasts for 73 days and die with torture. When Maulvi 




Slo. Vi>' the G/ZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADHA 2, 1890 3821 


must have issued a command and Sant Fatesingh must have started a fast they 
must have been assured that their followers would not allow them to die. 
Similarly when our Jagadguru must have started fasts he must also have 
thought that out of 40 crorcs of Hindus who arc living in India 10 erores may 
have fallen on account of coming in contact with congress and on 10 erores 
there may have been grace of Bahucharaji but the remaining 20 erores are my 
brave Hindus. Must he have such assurance or not? On the 18th cut the nose 

of this Congress and do such thing that their deposit may be forfeited and their 

boxes mayt£o empty, - ’ 

Tn this passage he has referred to the Hazrat Bal, its recovery and fast by Sant Fateh- 
singh and Government having ignored the fast of Jagadguru. Then he referred to the faat 
that when Maulvi must have issued a-Command, and Sant Fatehsingh started the fast, they 

must have been assured that their followers would not allow them to die and then he told 

his listeners that similarly when Jagadguru must have fasted, he must have at least thought 
that out of 40 erores of Hindus at least 30 erores were his brave followers. Then again 
he put a question: should he have such an assurance or not? And then called upon 
the voters not to vote for the Congress. Then the third passage is as follows :— 

“In Pakistan and Afghanistan cow slaughter is prohibited while these people have 
made an agreement to send six thousand tons mutton to foreign country. 
They want to get living or slaughtered and they demand vote on the photo of 
ox. If there is honesty in congress it should keep the photo of a butcher and 
keep a knife in the hand and say wc shall thus slaughter and then ask for 
vote. Your heart bums when any one tears of the poster having the photo 
of ox then would our heart not burn when living oxen arc killed? The 
Swatantra Party has given me promise before five day9 that if it comes in 
power die slaughtering of cow-progeny will be prohibited by an ordinance of 
a Governor in the first session and the land revenue of the farmers will be 
exempted, Therefore your work is to defeat this congress.” 

There is nothing which in this passage and hence no comments are necessary. The 
fourth passage is as follows :— 

"If a Maulvi from Mucca or the Chief preceptor of Parsis, Mulla, or the Ford Pope 
sitting in Europe observes fasts for seventy days interest of his followers for 
some problem and issues a command that any Tslam 'Pachcho’ (follower of 
Islam) Pars! or Christian shall not vote for Congress, you yourself may say 
would any one vote for Congress. So. because a Mohommadan has remained 
a Mohemmandan. a Parsi has remained a parsi. Then have you cased to be 
Hindus? I have come to deliver a message of our Jagadguru to you that you 
should not give a single vote to Congress.” 

Here again the speaker has put Hindu community, it juxtaposition with the other 
communities like Muslims, Christian and Parsi and said if a Maulvis from Mucca or the 
Chief Preceptor of Parsis or the Pope sitting to Europe were to fast in the interest of his 
followers and were to issue a command that they should not vote for the congress, would 
they have voted for the Congress? And he answered, that they would not because 
Mohommndans have remained Mohonimadans, Parsis have remained Parsis and the speaker 
then asked the challenging question to his listeners whether they had ceased to be Hindus. 
Immediately then he told them that he has come to deliver the message of Jagadguru that 
a single vole should not be given to the—Congress. This passaged read by itself and 
even rend in context with the whole speech, would amount to corrupt practice for reasons 

that I have mentioned while dealing with the first speech the fifth passage is as follows:_ 

“I, therefore, humbly request you to let go Congress boxes empty. To vote for con¬ 
gress is to get the slaughtering continued and to move a knife over the throat 
of an ox. To vote for congress is to become a partner of sin. If ihey want 
to sit in the chair they maV sit. When you should become a partner of sin?” 

Here he has referred to the aspect of sin if they were to give vote to Congress. This 
passage also read to the context of the whole speech would amount to corrupt practice for 
reasons that 1 have stated. The last passage is as follows :— 

“Bv giving an instance he has said that the earth had taken form of a cow and 
religion had taken form of ox. So when an ox is being killed how can earth 
remain satisfied? Then you may bring tractors or fraze schemes. By the- 
rn-^rt' of God if a farmer draws a line even then there would be good nrodnee. 
Tb">/ had cone to Bomhav to wash feet of T»one. For the sake of Dalailama 
err-''tv is created with China but when Shri Jagadeuru of 40 Crores of Hindus 
observed fasts no bristles of this Government even moved". 



3822 "I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 

This passage, to my mind, cannot fall with the mischief of the relevant provisions of 
law. The only main difference to be seen between these two speeches and the one made 
at Iqbalgadh Ex. B-l is that there is no reference in either of these two speeches to the 
befalling of natural calamities as a result of the sinful congress regime. It is true that in 
■the speech at Amirgadh the speaker is least offensive but there also, as I have pointed 
•out, in one of the passages he has transgressed the limit permitted in law. So far as the 
speech at Vav is concerned, except the reference to natural calamities it is almost as 
offensive as the speech at Iqbalgadh. 

It is important to note that Jaw, even makes an attempt to induce the offending belief 
•in the electorate, a corrupt practice. It is well-established now that though physically or 
•legally it may not be possible to commit a particular offence, yet a person can be guilty 
of the attempt to commit such as offence. In Bashirhhai v. State gf Bombay 62 Bom. 
L.R. 906 it has been laid down that in a prosecution for the offence of an attempt to 
■cheat, the fact (hat the excused had failed in his attempt to irrelevant in considering 
•whether he had committed the offence of attempting to cheat. In the said case it was 
argued that there was no attempt to cheat because the complainant had not been deceived. 
But the learned Judges observed that it was true that the complaint had not been taken 
in. He had not believed that the accused could actually duplicate currency notes. He 
faigned belief only in order to trap the accused. That, however, made no differences as 
far as an attempt to cheat was concerned. That they had failed in their attempt was 
irrelevant in considering whether they had committed the offence of attempting to cheat 
Their Lordships referred with approval, the following observations made in Government 
•■of Bengal v. Umash I.L.R. 16 Calcutta, 310. 

“A man may attempt to cheat although the person he attempts to cheat is forwarnod, 
and is therefore not cheated.” 

In Aggarali Bradhania v. Emperor the same principle is reaffirmed. In the said 
■decision the word—‘attempt’ has been interpreted and after examining a number of deci¬ 
sions, they laid down that so far the law in India is concerned, it beyond dispute that 
there are four stages to every crime, the intention to commit, the preparation to commit, 
the attempt to commit and if the third stage is successful the commission itself. While 

considering this aspact, they have given an illustration that if a man thrusts his hand 
into the pocket of another with intent to steal, he does an act towards the commission of 
the offence of stealing though unknown to him the pocket is empty. He tries to steal, 
hut is frustrated by a fact, namely the emptiness of the pocket, which is not in any way 
due to any act or—his part. He does an act towards the commission of the offence of 
pocket picking, by thrusting his hand into the pocket of another with intent to steal. 
Nevertheless he may Ire convicted of an attempt to steal. Applying this principle to the 
offence of corrupt practice which prohibits inducing the belief in the electorate that they 
shall be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual censure even if it is held that 
it was not possible for any person to actually induce: such a belief in a given audience 
■under given—circumstances, he would still be guilty of attempt to commit the offence. 
Having regard to all the facts and circumstances that I have already discussed, in my 
judgment, the making of these speeches cannot in any event escape falling within the 
clutches of ‘an attempt’. Therefore, to my mind for the reasons that I have at length 
given while dealing with the first speech'. I am satisfied that these two speeches also con¬ 
travene the provisions of law. There is no doubt that the speaker has in these throe 
speeches referred to a number of topics which may not fall within the purview of the re¬ 
levant provisions of law. But keeping in mind all the principles which law has laid down 
to be kept in mind in judging such election speeches, I feel satisfied that Shambhu Maharaj 
did commit the corrupt practice at these three places by delivering those speeches which 
fall within the purview of section 123(2) proviso (a) (ii) of the Act. 

Before an election of a returned candidate can be declared to be void under section 
100 of the Act on the ground of commission of a corrupt practice the Court has not only 
to he satisfied that such corrupt practice alleged has been committed but has also to be 
satisfied that it has been committed by the returned candidate or his election agent or 
any other person with the consent of the candidate or the election agent, In this case, 
the only allegation Is that Shambhu Maharaj committed the corrupt practice with the con¬ 
sent of the respondent No. 1 and/or his election agent. No attempt however was made 
to argue even that there was satisfactory evidence that the corrupt practice was committed 
by Shambhu Maharaj with the consent of respondent No. 1 himself. But it was urged 
"by Mr. Darn that there was ample evidence to prove the consent of the election agent 
Punambhai Patel of resoondent No. 1 to the Commission of the corrupt practice by 
•Shambhu Maharaj in all the three meetings. It was argued that this consent must be 
-Inferred from the fact that he remained present in all the three meetings and he had not 



SW. MiQ] THE G AZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1963/BHADRA 2, 1890 382 T 

at - ill L 10 disassociate himself from the impugned statements made by Shambhu 
Maitarai. On the contrary even though in the lint meeting this corrupt practice had 
ecu commuted, he went with Shambhu Maharuj in the second meeting and tho third 
meeting, took a leading part; remained present and therefore his consent must be inferred. 
Mr. Namivaty on the other hand contended that there is no proof of any conscious act 
oil the part of lunambhai to amount to consent m law. It was also argued that here 
he corrupt practice alleged was not such as could be said to be par a^ corrupt practice 
and it cannot be said that Punambhai was a lay man, on his own could have decided or 
■ S , UC ^V? s P ecc 'h or such a statement in the speech would be hit by—section. 
IjU(-) proviso (a) (u). In this ease, it is an admitted fact now and In any case estab¬ 
lished that Punambhai was present in all the three meetings. He was the organiser of 
the Swatantra Paksha and in all these meetings, ho had spoken first. He went with. 
Shambhu Maharaj from place to place. Then, as already pointed out, he had issued a 
pamphlet as the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha for the meetings of Shambhu 
Maharaj of 26th January 1967. As regards the meetings that he attended, there is noth¬ 
ing to show that he tried to demur or protest or raised any objection to utterance of the 
impugned words. In any case, not only did he object or disassociate himself in the 
first instance from what Shambhu Maharaj had said which amounts to corrupt practice, 
but he went with Shambhu Maharaj to the second and the third meetings also. There is. 
nolhing to show that he had tried even to stop Shambhu Maharaj from committing that 
corrupt practice again and again. Under the circumstances, it is impossible to con¬ 
clude that Punambhai could not have known what Shambhu Maharaj was upto. Mr.. 
Darn relied upon the decision in Kurnara Nancl v. Brijmohanlal Sharma A.l.R. 1967 S. C. 
808. This was a case under section 123(4) of the Act and it was held that recitation in 
public meeting of poem containing false statement of fact with consent and knowledge of 
a candidate, responsibility for the publication is of the candidate and it is his belief that 
matters and not belief of the reciter. In the said case the poem was not actually read 
by the appellant but it was read in bis presence at a meeting at which he was presiding 
and the learned Judges agreed with the High Court that in those circumstances the recita¬ 
tion of the poem amounted to the publication of the false statement of fact containued in 
it by another person with the consent of the candidate. Their Lordships have kept the 
question open as to what would be the position in a case where the candidate had no 
knowledge at all of the publication before it was made. Mr. Nanavaty however, relied 
upon the decision in Sheopat Singh v. Harish Chandra A.l.R. 1960 S. C. 1217 to support 
his contention that unless it can be said that Punambhai had knowledge that Shambhu 
Maharaj would utter such words, no consent can be imputed to him. Now in the pre¬ 
sent case, it may bo that if tho Court had to depend only on the first speech, there was 
some force in the argument that Punambhai could not have the knowledge as to what 
Shambhu Maharaj was going to speak. Even then in my view having regard to the close 
contact, knowledge could be Imputed to Punambhai, But apart from that, as already 
pointed out, even after the first speech, he associated himself with the Shambhu Maharaj 
and in his presence Shambhu Maharaj again committed the same corrupt practice and 
even then he had not disassociated himself. But Mr. Nanavaty argued that the nature 
of the present corrupt practice was such that Punambhai as a lay man could not have 
reasoned out there and then that it was a corrupt practice and therefore could have dis¬ 
associated himself and therefore his mere presence cannot amount to consent. I am not 
impressed by this argument. If this contention were to be accepted, then in respect of 
the corrupt of the nature with which we are concerned, it can always be pleaded that he 
could not know or reason out that the statements made in the speeches amounted to 
corrupt practice or not. That way any abetor can make a plea that though he know 
the Law and what the ingredients of the offence were he could not make out at the time 
when he abetted the crime whether the acts which the principal was committing would 
amount to an offence or not. It may be that the Court comes to the conclusion that the 
statements amount to the alleged corrupt practice after considering the pros and cons of 
the allegations and the contentions of the parties, and arrive at the conclusion on a long 
reasoning, but once it Is established that the act did amount to a cornipt practice, in my 
view it will not be open to the party to say that he could not reason it out himself to bo 
a corrupt practice of the nature alleged and therefore his presence cannot amount ter 
consent to such corrupt practice, 


I have considered with care to the able arguments of both the sides and here reasons 
that I have given, I hold that the consent of the election agent of respondent No. I to the 
commission of the corrupt practice under section 123(2) proviso (a) (ij) by Shambhu 
Maharaj has been established. As the commission of the corrupt practice and the con¬ 
sent of the election agent of respondent No. 1 has been established beyond a reasonable 
doubt, as a consequence thereof, the election of respondent No. 1 is liable to bo 
declared void under section 101(l)(b) of the Act. 



3824 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


The pelitioner has also sought the relief that respondent No. 2 should have been de¬ 
clared. elected to the Lok Sabha, However, the said relief was not pressed by Mr. Dam 
and rightly so because it is not possible to grant that prayer under section 101 of the 
Act as it is not possible to say how many voles were secured by the lirst respondent by 
the corrupt practice which is proved to have been co mm itted. In Ihe result, the election 
petition succeeds and I declare that the election of the lirst respondent to the Lok Sabha 
from the Banaskantha Parliamentary Constituency to be void because the Corrupt practice 
committed by Shambhu Maharaj to which the election agent of respondent No. 1 con¬ 
sented. No order can be made under section 99 of the Act against the respondent 
No. 1 himself us the corrupt practice is found to have been committed by Shambhu 
Maharaj and the liability of the respondent No. 1 arises only because of the consent of 
election agent. 


As regards costs, in this case actual hearing including the arguments took ten full 
days. I iind, however, that the petitioner has not, right from the stage of issues after 
they were framed, given up all the grounds that he had alleged. At this stage, he had 
given up only two of his grounds. Even when the petitioner went into the box, he had 
persisted in his efforts to establish the various grounds. It was only after about 16 wit¬ 
nesses were examined that the Court and the other side were finally informed that the 
petitioner was not going to press issues Nos. 5 and 6. binder the circumstances and hav¬ 
ing regard to all the facts, 1 award Rs. 2,000/- inclusive of costs of the advocate’s fee 
and other taxed costs of the petition. Respondent No. 1 to pay the said costs to the 
petitioner. 

At this stage, Mr. Nanavaty on behalf of the first respondent applied for slay of the 
operation of this order to enable the first respondent to approach the Supreme Court, and 
file an appeal and apply for stay. Under section 116(d) of the Act, the Court is entitled 
to put the first respondent on temis. The stay order is granted on the following terms: 
That the respondent No. 1 may attend the sitting of the Lok Sabha in order that he may 
not lose his scat on the ground of absence but he shall not take Part in the proceedings of 
the Lok Sabha and shall not draw any pay or allowances and that the operation of this 
judgment and order shall be stayed for six weeks from the respondent No. 1 getting the 
certified copy of this judgment and order. 

By the Order of the Court, 


This 9th daj of May, 1968. 


Scl/- M. A. Svr.D. 

Deputy Registrar (I) 


[No, 82/22/67(01.)] 
By Order, 

K. S. RAJAGOPALAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 8 th August 1968 

S.0.2822.—-In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Laccadive, 
Minlcoy and Amindivi Islands Land Revenue and Tenancy Regulation, 1065 (No. 6 
of 1905) the Central Government hereby authorises the Administrator, Laccadive, 
Minlcoy and Amindivi Islands, to appoint the following classes of revenue officers, 
-namely:— 

(a) assistant settlement officers, 

<b) tehsildars, 

'(c) revenue inspectors, and 
(d) amine. 


[No. l/2/(18)68-ANL] 

\ 

R- C. GUPTA, Under Secy, 



StC. 3G1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 /BIiADRA 2 , 1890 3825 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 12th August. 196S 

S.O. 2813. —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
194-9 (to of 1949), the Central Government, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
Inlia, hereby declares that the provisions of section 9 of the said Act shall not apply to the Catholic 
Syrian Bink Ltd., Trichar in respect of the immovable property held byit at’Thoppumpady 
PsUurulhy, Co shin, Ernikulam District, Kerala State, till the 1st August 1969. 

LNo. 15 (22)-BC/68.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 12 th August 1968 

S.O. 2823— For the word ‘pledge’ appearing in the last but one line of this Department 
Notification of even number dated the 3olh April, 1068, published as S.O. 1622 in page 2162 
-of Part II, Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India dated the nth May, 1968, please read ‘pledgee’. 

[F. No. ij (i8)-BC/68.] 

V. SWAMINATHAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

ORDER 

Stamps 

New Delhi, the llth August, 1968 

S.O. 2825 .—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause(a) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
•9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899 ), the Central Government hereby remits 
[in addition to the remission of duty made in the order of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and Insurance) No. 14/67 which was 
published as Part II, Section 3 , sub-scction (ii) in the Gazette of India dated 16 th December, 
1967 at page 4602 ] the duty with which the bonds to the value of eight lakhs and twenty 
one thousands of rupees issued in cxess by the Maharashtra State Financial Corporation 
are chargeable under the said Act. 

[No. 13 / 68 -F, No. 1 / 38 / 68 -Cus.VIT/Stamps.] 
M. S. SUBRAMANYAM, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 
Income-Tax 

New Delhi, the 29 th July 1968 

S.O.a8»$. —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sec ion (1) of Section 122 of the In- 
comet ax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf, the Central Board 
of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following further amendments in the schedule appended to its 
notification No. 107 (F. No. 50/5/66-ITJ), dated the 27th October, 1966 namely :— 

In the said schedule against A-range, Amritsar and C-Rangc Amritsar under column 2, the 
following entries shall be substituted, namely ;— 

A.-Range, Amritsar 1. In respect oforderspassed by Income-tax Officers up- 

to and including 14-7-1967. 

(i) Distt. I, Amritsar. 

(it) Distt, II(i) to II(v), Amritsar. 

(Hi) Distt. Ill (iv), Amritsar. 

(iv) Special Survey Circle, Amritsar in 
respect of persons who have their 
principal place of business in or rtsidc 
in the jurisdiction of Distt. 1 , II and 
III(iv), Amritsar]. 



3826 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 

2. In respect of orders passed by the Income- 
tax Officers after 14-7-1967. 

(0 Distt. I(i), Amritsar. 

(m) Distt. I (ii), Amritsar. 

C iit) Addl. Distt. I(ii), Amritsar. 

(iv) Distt. I(iii), Amritsar. 

( v ) Addl. Distt. I(iii), Amritsar. 

(vt) Distt. I(iv)j Amritsar. 

(pii) Distt. I(v), Amritsar. 

(viii) Addl. Dist. I(v), Amritsar. 

(■ ix ) Dist. I(vi), Amritsar. 

(. x ) Addl.Distt.I(vi),Amritsar. 

C-Range, Amritsar, . . r. All Income-tax Circles, Wards or Districts having 

Headquarters at Bataia. 

2. Distt. I(vii) to I(x), Amritsar. 

3 - (I) Distt. II(vi), Amritsar. 

(ii) Addl. Dhtt. II(vi), Amritsar. 

(Hi) Distt-Il(vii), Amritsar. 

(iv) Addl. Distt. Il(vii), Amritsar. 

(v) Distt. Il(viii), Amritsar. 

(vi) Distt. II(ix), Amritsar. 

(vii) Distt. II(x), Amritsar. 

4 . S pecial Survey Circle, Amritsar (in respect of persona 
who have their principal place of business In or reside 
in the jurisdiction of Income-tax OfflcerB, Batala). 

This notification shall take effect from 29-7-1968. 

Explanatory Notes : 

The amendment has become necessary on account of creation of new wards at Amritsar. 

(The above note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be merely clar'f ca¬ 
lory). 

[No. 66 (F. No. 50/10/68-ITJ]. 

S. V- SUBBA RAO, under Secy. 


Incomi-tax 


New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 

S.O. 2827.—In excercise of the powers conferred by section 126 of the Ir.ccme-tfx Act, i$fr 
(43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes ifce following addition to (he 
schedule annexed to itB Notification No. 1 (F. No. 55/233/63—IT)datedtke )8t Wey, 1564. 



Fuc. 30i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3827 


After the existing entry at S. No, 55 the following entry shall be added: 


Schedule 


s. 

Person 

Income-tax 

Inspecting 

Appellate 

Commissioner 

No. 


Officers in 

Assistant 

Assistant 

of Income-tax 



IT Circle 

Commissioner 

Commissioner 





of Income-tax 

of Income-tax 



56 Employees of the United ITOs in In- 
Church of Canada Mis- come-taxCir- 
sionary Committee cle, Indore, 
stationed anywhere in 
India. 


Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 

Assistant Assistant of Income-tax 

Commissioner Commissioner Madhya Pra- 
of Income-tax of Income-tax desh, Nagpur 
Indore, Range B-Range, and Bhandara 
Indore. Indore. Nagpur. 


This Notification shall take effect from 


[No. 13 (F- No. 55/259/68-I.T.A. Ill)] 
N. SRI RAMAMURTY, Under Secy. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EICCISE 

SHILLONG 

Shillong, the 8 th August 1968 

S.O. a 8 z 8 .—In exercise of powers conferred on me under Rule 143 and 233 of the Central Ex¬ 
cise Rules, 1944, I hereby order that the following types of processing operations may be under¬ 
taken by the warehouse licensees for preservation, sale and disposal of tobacco. 

(1) Unpacking of packages ; 

(1) Sorting and sizing of leaves ; 

(3) Keeping loose in stacks to regain colours; 

(4) Re-packing for clearance. 


[C.E. No. 6/68.] 

A. K. BANDYOPADHYAY, Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 9th August 1968 

S-O. 2829 .—The following amendments made to the Articles of Association by 
the Madhya Pradesh Commercial Exchange Ltd., Akola, In exercise of the powers 
conferred on It by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 9 A of the Forward Contracts (Regula¬ 
tion) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952 ) and approved by the Central Government are hereby 
published, as required by sub-section (2) of that section, namely: — 

Amendments 

In the said Articles of Association,— 

( 1 ) In Article 21 , In clause (i), for item (a), the following item shall be substitu 
tea, namely: — 

“(a) Panel of Crushers and Ginners;” 



3828 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


(2) In Article 49, in clause (2),— 


(i) for sub-clause (a), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(a) Not more than three Directors, elected from amongst and by members 
or their authorised representatives belonging to the panel of Crushers 
and Ginners;” 


(11) in sub-clause (b), the words “Out of these, not more than two shall be 
elected from amongst and by the members or their authorised repre¬ 
sentatives from Akola and not more than one Director shall be elected 
from amongst and by the members or their authorised representatives 
from Khamgaon’’ shall be omitted; 


(iii) In sub-clause (e), the words “Out of these not more than three shall 
be elected from amongst and by the members of their authorised repre¬ 
sentatives from Akola and not more than one Director shall be elected 
from amongst and by the members or their authorised representatives 
from Khamgaon” shall be omitted. 

[No. 13(1)-CG(FMC)/68.J 


SURENDRA SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


(Office of the it. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 
(Central Licensing Area) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 4 th July 1968 


S. O. 2830 .—M/s. Aeroplane Shoe Factory, Gurdwara Road, Karol Bagh, New Delhi were 
granted an import licence No. P/AU/1211791/C for Rs. 2,35,90a/- on 21-3-1968. They have 
applied for a duplicate of the Exchange Control Copy of the said licence on the ground that the 
original Exchange Control copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced. It is further stated that 
the original licence was not registered with any Customs House and has not been utilised at all. 


In support of this contention the applicant has filed an affidavit. I am satisfied that the ori¬ 
ginal Exchange Control Copy of licence No. P/AU/1211791/C has been lost and direct that a 
duplicate licence should be issued to the applicant. The original Exchange Control Copy of 
1 Icence is cancelled. 


[No. Leather-9/July-Sept.-67/SC-HI/CLA] 


New Delhi, the 5th August 1968 

S.O. 3831— A licence No- P/SS/1573780/C/XX/23/CD/23:24 dated 26th August 
1966 of the value of Rs. 3,000/- for import of Rolled Nickle Anodes was issued to M/s. 
Chopra Cycle Parts Works, OT6, Industrial Area, Sonepat (Distt. Rohtak) subject 
to the condition that all the items of the goods imported under It shall be utilised 
In the licence holder’s factory and no portion thereof shall be sold to any other 
party or utilised or permitted to be used in any other manner. 

2. Thereafter, a show cause notice No. C-6/67/ENF/CLA 4-67 dated 7th Feb¬ 
ruary 1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 10 days ns to why the said 
licence in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Govt,, 
is satisfied that the licence will not serve purpose for which It was granted in 
terms of Clause 9, sub-clause (cc). 

3- In response to the aforesaid show cause notice, M/s. Chopra Cycle Parts 
Works, 0-16, Industrial Area, Sonepat (Distt. Rohtak) furnished no explanation. 

4- Having regard to what has been stated in the preceeding paragraph, the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other¬ 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore, the undersigned, in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub-clause fee) of the Imports (Control) Order, 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No. P/SS/ 1573780/C/XX/23/CD/23:24 dated 26th 
August 1966 for Rs- 3,000/- issued In favour of M/s. Chopra Cycle Parts Works. 
0-16. Industrial Area, Sonepat (Distt. Rohtak). 

[No. C-6/67/ENF/CLA/4229 ] 
J. S- BEDI, 

Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports- 



Sec 3(ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3829 


MINISTRY OF STEEL, MINES & METALS 
(Deptt. of Mines & Metals) 

New Delhi, the 3m July 1968 

S. O.iSjJ.—Whereas itappears tothe Central Government that coal is likely to be obtained 
from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

N >w, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957), the Central Government 
hereby gives notice of its intention to prospect for coal therein. 

The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected in the Office of the National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited (Revenue Section), Darbhanga House, Ranchi or at 
the office of the Collector, Sidhi (MP) or in the office of the Coal Controller, i-Council House 
Street, Calcutta. 

Any person interested in the lands mentioned in the said schedule shall deliver all maps, 
charts aid other documents referred to in sub-section (7) of section 13 of the said Act to the Revenue 
O fleer of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Darbhanga House, Ranchi within 
ninety days from the date of publication in the Gazette of India of this notification. 

Schedule 

Rorbi Block 

(Singrauli Coalfield) 

Drg. No. Rev/29/67 
Dated 21-9-67 


(Showing the area notified for prospecting) 


SI. Village Tahsil TahsilNo. District Area Remarks 

No. 


1 Gorbi . 

. Dcosar 

, , 

Sidhi 

Part 

2 Naurhia 

. 



Part 


Total area: 705^00 acres (Approximately) 

OR 285'52 Hectares (Approximately) 


Boundary Description 


A—B—C 
C-D . 

D —E— F—G . 
G-H . 

H—A . 


Lines pass through village Naurhia and meet at point ‘C’ 

Line passes through villages Naurhia and Gorbi and meets at point ‘D’. 
Lines pass through village Gorbi and meet at point ‘G’. 

Line passes through villages Gorbi and Naurhia and meets at point ‘H’. 

Line passes along the part common boundary of villages Naurhia and Fuljhar 
and meets at point ’A’. 


[No. C2-22(3)/67.] 


New Delhi , the 8th August 1968 

S.O. 1833—Whereas it anoears to the Central Government that coal is likely to be ob 
tained from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 4 of th c 
Coal B:aring Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1937), thc Central Govern" 
ment hereby given notice of its intention to prospect for coal therein. 

The plan of the arc jcoverd by this notification can be inspected at the Office of the Notional 
Coal Development Corporation Limited (Revenue Section), Darbhanga House, Ranchi or at the 
Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Hazaribagh (Bihar) or at the Office of thc Coal Controller, 
1, Council House Street, Calcutta. 





3830 THE (5A2ETTE of INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [P*At n— 


All persons interested in the lands mentioned in the said Schedule shall deliver all maps, 
charts and other documents referred t o in sub-section (7) of section 13 of the said Act to the Revenue 
Officer of the National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Darbhanga House, Ranchi within 
ninety days from the date of publication of this notification. 

SchedulH 

UrimarilBIock 

(South Karanpura Coalfield) 


Drawing No. Rcv/ 37/67 
Dated 27-11-67. 

(Area notified for prospecting) 


SI. No. 

Village 

Thana 

ThanaNo. 

District Area 

Remark* 

1 

Ango , 

. Barkagaon 

97 

Hazaribagh 

Pait 

2 

Aswa . 

• M 

153 

33 

33 

3 

Potanga 

a 9 ? 

154 

33 

>3 

4 

Urimari 

• 33 

3 55 

33 

33 

5 

Jarjara . 

* 33 

156 

33 

33 

6 

Grrsula 

. 33 

1 57 

33 

3 3 


Total area : 3840 acres (Approx.) 

or 1555-20 Hectares (Approximately) 


Boundary Description :— 

A —B Line starts from the left bank of River JDamodar and goesupto Central line of River 
Damodar in village Angoandmeets at point ‘B’. 

B—C Line passes along the Central line of River Damodar i.t. along the part Southern 
boundary of village Ango, Southern boundary of village* Aswa, Potanga, Urimtri 
and part Southern boundary of village Garsula and meets atpoint'C’. 

C—D —A Lines pas* through villages Garsula, Jarjara Urimari, Potanga, Aswa and Ango and 
meet at point ‘A. 


[No. C2-I2 (i)/68.1 


ERRATA 

New Delhi, the 31st July 1968 

S.O.ag34>—In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel, Mine* 
and Metals (Department of Mines and metals) No. S.O- J895, dated the 21st May 1568 piblishcd 
in Part II, Section 3, sub-section (ii) of the Gazette of India, dated the 1st June, 1968, at page* 
3586 to 2587 :— 

at page 2586— 

(i) in line 26, for “Fhariacoalfield", read “Jharia Coalfied"; 

(ii) in line 38,/or “2i(P)”, read l, 2ii(P)”; 

(iii) in line 40,/or “Fogidi”, read" Jogidi”; 

(in) in line 46, for “S8i5(P)”, read, “8i5(P>”; 

( v ) in line 47 , for “98(P)”, read '‘898(P)’\ 


[No. C2-20(5)/65-I.| 


New Delhi, the 8 th August 1968 

S. 0 . 2835 . —In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry oi Steel, Mire: ard 
Metals (Department of Mines and Metals) S.O. No. 2033, dated the 25th May 1968, published 




SBC. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BIIADRA 2, 1890 8831 


013:9 2731 to 3734 in ?iTt- 11 , Sictio.i 3, Sab-jsstion (ii) of tht Gmctte of India, dated the 8th 
June, 1968:— 

t. At pjijs 2731 , ialln: 32 ,/.v ,, Fairiac:nlS;U”n!ai"Jha tia coalfield’’; 

2 . at page 2732 — 

(i) in lin* 3 ,^r“ 7 I 7 (P)”r«<j<f“ 727 (P)”; 

(ii) in line 8 for "Fatudih’ read “Jatudih”; 

(iii) in linc 25 iin the first column, for'‘F”,read "E-F”; 

(iv) in line 26, for' ‘714’’, read" 744 ”; 

(v) inline 3 j,/or“Ore”, read “bore”; 

(vi) in line 44 ,/or” 578 (F)” read “ 578 ”; 

(vii) inline 47 , for “ 7 i 6 (P)” read “ 716 ”; and/or “ 7 X 8719 CP)”, read “ 718 , 7I9(P)”; 

- 3 . at page 2733 — 

(i) inline 4, for “line throtjh plot ni-nderP’j read “lin; p 133:3 through plot numbers”, 

(ii) inline 12 /or“Sub-Block-II”r«ad‘ :, Sub*CIock-U”; 

(iii) inline 3l,/or“Fos;idi”, read" Jogidi”; 

(iv) in line 41, for V 673 (P)”, read “ 673 ” i 

(v) inline 46, for “ 242 (F)” read" 242 ”; 

(vi) in line 49 , for “ 04 (F)”, read ‘‘ 64 (F); 

(vii) inline 50 1 /or“L 4 ”,r<ad“ 274 (P)”; 

4 . at page 2734 — 

(i) inline I,/or “Fatudih”, read “Jatudih”; 

(ii) in line 4 , for “I 74 (P) to 247 ” read' ‘ 174 to 247 ” J 

and/or “ 54 a(P) to 362 ” read “542 to 562 > 

(iii) inline 7 ,/or ‘■‘8 to i66”,r«,ad“i to 166”; 

(iv) inline 8 ,/or“Farma”, r«ad“Jarma”; 

(v) in line 1 j,/or“Jarudlh”,r«ad“Iatudlh’'; 

(vi) in line 33 ,/or “dated 20 * 1964 ' ’read' 'dated 20-1 - 1964 ”; 

(vii) inline 37 ,/or“u/avide 9 ”.raod‘'u /9 9 vide”; 

(viii) in line 40 ,/or “ 918 , 922 , 923 ”> r « 2 d“ 9 l 8 , 923 > 922 , 923 ”. 


[No. C 2 - 20 ( 125 / 64 .] 
RAM SAHAY, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH, FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 
New Delhi, the 3rd August 1 W 8 

S-O 2836._In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 

and in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
■alao by clause ( 6 ) of Article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consulta- 
-tion with the Comptroller and Auditor-General, hereby makes the following amend¬ 
ment in the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, namely:— 

1 . (1) These rules may be called the Central Services (Medical Attendance)' 
Amendment Rules 1968. 

(2) They shall come Into force on the date of their publication in the official 
Gazette, 

2. In rule 5 of the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944, to sub- 
orule (f), the following proviso shall be added, namely:— 

“Provided that where such specialist or other medical officer is within the 
District, the approval of the Principal Medical Officer/Chief Medical 
Officer /.Civil Surgeon of the District shall be sufficient.” 

[No. F.29-78/67-MA.] 
R. MURTHI, Under Secy. 



3832 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 54, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II — 


qftsiT OwtaH 

(TOTTTO trg fqTTR fq4T4) 

4f fTOsft, 3 5FT4T 19 68 

•jito ^02837.—rfruFT % 309 % TT^praRr 4 «rr 4 r- 5 f% ^«tr 

qf 8 TT q°T TOT%4T4 4 «JT4 T4 TIT TOfedF % TT^ 4 *fi 4%4T4 % SITIN' 1 4 8 
( 6 ) am %*ft Tflr.TT Tf 44 % 4 % §4 71^ % fqqqqt t?T *fT%TOqft 8 T*fT TUT •it 
% T5 TTcT PeTTs TT k '£% §TT (f=- faWT I fR 4T) fat) 4, 1944 4 f%q%fa4 f TtHT 
qr% t; 4T44: 

1. (l) ^ fqqq ^frq ^4T (fafTTOT 4fT4dT) 4Sf|TFT Id 44, 1968 I 

( 2 ) TTTlft TRIT 4 4TOfw ft 4% TO %f«T 0 If %44 TT^ fFT I 

2. %^14 %TFF (fapRTT 4fTWr) f444, 1944 % %44 5 T3q-f444 ( l) # 

fTOqfTftJUr TUTqr TOT faTT 41441 ; 4T4T : 

"4TO? Tr t FTO from %■ 4TO 4TO %fTO4T WftfTOU fTO# 4 yt ft Tft 44 fTOj 3» 

TSTTT fTOfTOTOT FfUTT-Tt TO ITOfTOHT FfTOroTO TOriTOj 444 3ft 514,4% 44T 
Mflt'T ftn 1 

TFT 4%, 5TTT 4f=44 I 

[4° To29-7 8/67-f4f%^4T] 5FJ414 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 
(Department of Petroleum) 

AF*o Delhi, the 3 rd August 1968 

S. 0 .2838.—In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Petroleum Pipelines Acquisition of 
Right of User m Land) Act, 1962 ( 50 . of 1962 ), and in modification of the Notifications of the Gov¬ 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Mines and Fuel S.O. No. 1131 dated the 6 th April ,1963 and in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S.O. No. 2170 dated the 26 th June, 1965 the Central 
Government hereby authorises Shri S.C.D. Kaushik, to petfoim the functions of the competent 
authority w.e.f. 1 - 7-68 under the said Act vice Shri Hai Dat Singh as in the schedule given belf w:— 

Schedule 


Name of the Person 

AddresB 

Territorial Jurisdiction 

Shri S.C.D. Kaushik, Liaison 

M/s. Indian Oil Corporation 

State of Uttar Pitdcth. 

Officer. 

Ltd. (Pipe lines) P.B. No. 


- 

58 , Allahabad (U.P.). 



[No. 31 / 6 /S 3 -ONG/IOC (Vol. II).] 


flew Delhi, the 7th August 1968 

S.O- 2839—Whereas by a notification of the Government of India In the Minis¬ 
try of Petroleum & Chemicals S O- No, 1725 dated 7th May, 1968 under sub-section 
,(1) ot Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User In land> 
Act, 1962 .(50 of 1962) the Central Government declared its Intention to acquire the 


Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRa 2 , 1890 3833 


Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for 
the purpose of laying pipelines. 

And whereas the competent authority has under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 6 of 
the said Act, sumbitted report to the Government; 

And whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified In the schedule appended 
to this notification. 

Now, whereas, in exercise of tl»e power conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of Sec¬ 
tion 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section ( 4 ) of that section, the Central Government directs that the right of 
user in the said lands shall Instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest on 
this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Commis¬ 
sion free from all encumbrances. 

(Laying pipeline from well No. 80 to G.G.S. II} 

Schedule 

State—.Gujarat Dht—.Meluana Taluka—Kalo] 




Village 


S. No. 

Hectare 

Area 

P. Area. 

Saij 





. 7 Q 8 

0 

17 

87 

33 





. 797/1 

0 

3 

84 

3 3 





. 797/2 

0 

3 

74 

33 





. 799 

0 

I 

91 

35 





801 

0 

4 

08 

33 





. V. P. Road 

0 

I 

70 

3 3 





. 797/1 

0 

3 

74 

33 





, 762 & 761 

0 

26 

34 

M 





. 760 

0 

9 

20 

33 

* 




. 759 

0 

8 

53 

3 3 ' 





. 749 

0 

7 

78 

3 3 





. 748/2 

0 

0 

56 

33 





. 748 /iB 

0 

7 

28 

33 





. 748 /iA 

0 

9 

33 

33 





. 742 

0 

IS 

43 






, V. P. Saij Cart 

0 

0 

56 






Track. 




33 





. 732 /t 

0 

I 

I 

33 





. 732/2 . 

0 

10 

72 

33 





. 732/3 

0 

I 

II 

33 





- 733 

0 

3 

84 

33 





. 734/2 , 

0 

3 

44 

33 





. 730 

0 

34 

77 

33 





. 734/1 

0 

I 

I 

33 





. 712 

0 

26 

40 



(Laying Pipeline from well No. 16 to G.G.S. II) 



S aif 





. 1217 

0 

10 

92 

33 





. 1219 

0 

19 

32 

33 





. V. P. Raod 

0 

6 

76 

33 





. 1214/1 

0 

7 

2R 

33 





. 1213/2 

0 

3 

44 

33 





. 1213/1 

0 

3 

34 

33 





, 1212 

0 

4 

45 

33 





. 1216 

0 

5 

94 

33 





. V. P. Sail 

0 

16 

49 

33 





■ 700/11 









700/2 y 
noor 3 1 

0 

15 

is 











3834 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRAJ2, 1890 [Past II— 



1 2 3 

4 

5 


(Laying Pipeline from well No. 77 to G.G. 5 . III 


Saij 

. 712 0 

15 

06 


(Laying Pipeline from D.S.K. 91 to G.G.S. 

ID 


Dhanaj 

. V. P. Dhanaj cart 

I 

31 


. 212 0 

5 

40 


. 39 0 

26 

25 

JJ 

. , . . 224 0 

10 

65 


[No. 2B/9/68IOC.] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 31 at July 1968 

S.O.3840.—In the notification published as S.O. No. 3364 on page 3246 in part II Section 
3 (it) of the Gazette oflndia dated 6-7-68 thefollowing correcdonis notified :— 

In line 5 of the last para for Section 6(1) Read Section 6(4). 

[No. 3t(38)/63-ONG/IOC (Vol. 7).] 

S.Of.3841.—InthenodflcationpubUahed as S.O.No. 1905 onpage259i in part II Section 3 ( 11 ) 
of the Gazette of India dated 1-6-68, the following correction la notified :— 

In line a of the last para for Section 6(1) Read Section 6(4). 

(No. 31/67/63-ONG/IOC (Vol. 7) (Hi).] 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 

S.O.3843.—In the notification published as S.O. 3016 on page 2720-21 in part II Section 
3(il) of the Gazette of India dated 8-6-1968, the following correction is notified:— 

In line 5 of the last para for Section 6(1) Read Section 6(4). 

[No. 3 i(4t)/64-Frod/IOC. (Vol. II).^ 

S.O. 2843. —In the notification published as S.O. 1653 on page 1187-88 in part II Section 
3(ii)|of the Gazette of India dated 11-5-1968, the following correction is notified:— 

In line J of the last para for Section 6(1) Read Section 6(4). 

[No. 3 i(4i)/64-ONG/PROD/IOC.] 


S.O. 2844.—In the notification published as S.O. 2100 on page 2965 in Part II Section 
3 (H) of the Gazette of India dated 15 - 6 - 68 , the following correction is notified:— 

In line 5 of the last para for Section 6 ( 1 ), Read Section 6 ( 4 ). 

[No. 3 i( 4 i)/ 64 -ONG/PROD/IOC.) 

S.O.2841.—In the notification published as S.O. 2363 on page 3245 in Pan II Section 
3 (ii) of the Gazette of India dated 6 - 7 - 68 , the following correction is notified:— 

In line 5 of the last para for Section 6 ( 1 ) Read Section 6 ( 4 ). 

[No. 3 i( 4 i)/ 64 -ONG/PROD/IOC.] 

New Delhi, the 2nd August 1968 

8 - 0 . 3846 —Inthenotificationpa'-iUshcdasS.O.No. 1903 on page 2590 in PartJII Section 
3 (ii) ofthcGizette of India dated 1-5-68 the following correction is notified :— 

Inlinc 5 of the last para/or Section 6 ( 1 ) Read Section 6 ( 4 ). 


[No. 31/67/63-ONG/IOC (Vol. 7) («).] 


Sec. 3 (li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 3835 


S.O. 2847.—Inthe aacifleation published us S. O. Ns. 1934 011 page 2590-91 in Part II 
Section 3(ii) of the Gazette of India dated 1-6-68 the following correction notified :— 

Inline j of the last para/or Section 6(1) Read Section 6(4). 

[No. 31/67/63-ONG/IOC (Vol. 7) (if) ] 


ERRATUM 

New Delhi, the 5 th August 1968 

3 . 0 . 2848 —In the notification of Government of India in the Ministry of Petroleum & Chemical* 
S.O. No. 568 dated 1-2-1965 published in the Gazette of India Part II Section 3, Sub-section (ii) 
dated the 13th February, 1965 at page 639, for S. No. “175“ of village Kamod read "157”, 

[No. 3t(4i)/64-Prod/IOC (Vol. II)] 

fi. S- GOP ALAN. Under Secy. 


(Department of Chemicals) 

New Delhi, the 8 th August 1968 

S.O. 2849—pursuance of sub-clause (2) of clause 11 of the Molasses Control Order 
1961, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of sub-clause (1) of the said 
clause shall come Into force in the State of Madras with effect from the 26th day of August, 1968. 

[No. 4/19/68/Ch. I] 

R.JJ. BHOJWANI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 9 th August 1968 

S.O. 2850 .—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 85 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890 ), read with the notification of the Government of 
India, In the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 dated the 24 th 
March, 1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following amendments In the 
Rules for the preparation of accident returns, published with the notification of the 
Government of India In the Mlflistry of Railways (Railway Board) No. S O. 3312 
dated the 31 st August, 1964 , namely:— 

In the said rules,— 

(a) In rule ( 4 ), under the heading “II. Accidents to be included for the 
purpose of these Statistics”, for paragraph (v), the following paragraph 
shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(v) While reporting the number of accidents, the figures should be given 
Irrespective of the number of casualties of persons or cattle caused 
by each particular accident, which should be separately stated. 
Similarly, the number of collisions and derailments should be shown 
Irrespective of the vehicles damaged or derailed by such collisions or 
derailments. Each accident must be shown only once, and in the event 
of an accident falling in more than one category, it should be treated 
as an accident In the higher category.” 

(b) in the Statement of Accidents, in Table I, ( 1 ) for the remarks under the 
main heading "A TRAIN ACCIDENTS,” the following shall be 
substituted, namely; — 

“(The train accidents and train kilometres hereunder refer to all traction 
trains, viz-, steam, diesel or electric passenger, mixed, goods and 
departmental trains as well as the electric multiple unit trains as they 
are run, and also the rail cars. Train derailments or serious damages 
to trains occurring due to train wrecking, i.e-, a$ a result of wilful 
obstruction or tampering with permanent way formation, structures or 
equipment should be shown separately under sub-item 2 . 03 ).” 




3836 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 ✓ [Part II— 


(ii) lor the remarks under the heading “Accidents involving Trains at Level 
Crossing", the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(To include trains running into road traffic and/or road traffic running 
Into trains at level crossings. Accidents at level crossings not involv¬ 
ing trains will be accounted for under miscellaneous accidents aa- 
item 20)-” 

[No. 67/Stat.l/32/10.J 

C- S, PARAMESWARAN, Secy- 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT* COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 

S.O. 2851 .—IDRA Ip ,—In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951 ), read with rule 8 of the Central Advisory 
Council (Procedural) Rules, 1952 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G.L. Mehta 
to be member of the Central Advisory Council of Industries till the 3 rd November, 1969 , in placer 
of Shri P.L. Tandon and directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Depart¬ 
ment of Industrial Development) No. S.O. 4044 , dated the 4 th November, 1967 , namely :— 

In the said Order, for entry No. 13 relating to Shri P.L. Tandon, the following entry shall be 
substituted :— 

‘ 13 . Shri G.L. Mehta, 

Chairman, 

The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited, 

163 , Back Bay.Reclamation, 

Bombay-i.” 

[No. F. i( 5 )Lic.Pol,/ 67 ] 


New Delhi, the 9th August 1968 

S.O. 2842 — 15 /IDRA /68 —Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that there has 
been, or is liKelv to be a substantial fall in the volume of production in respect of cotton texrile* 
manufactured in the Industrial undertaking known as the Ahmedabad New Textile Mills Co. Ltd 
Ahmcdabadpfor which, having regard to the economic conditions prevailing, there is no justi¬ 
fication. 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 1 ; of the Industries (Develop 
ment and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951 ), the Central Government hereby appoints, for the 
purpose of making full and complete investigation into the circumstances of the case, a body of 
persons consisting of : 

1 . Shri S. V. Kogekar 

2 . Shri M. G, Mirchandani 

3 . Shri R. G. Zalani 

4 . Shri A. R. Kher 

j. Shri B. D. Mukherjec 

[No. 9 ( 10 ) Lie. P 0 I./ 68 ] 


. Chairman 
. Member 
, Member 
, Member 

. Member-Secretary. 


New Delhi , the 17 th August 1968 

S.O. 2853 —IDRA/ 6 / 6 / 68 ,—In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951) read with rules 2, 4 and 
5 of the Development Councils (Procedural) Rules, 1952, the Central Government hereby 
appoints, for a period ot two years with effect from the date of this Order, the following 
persons to bo members of the Development Council for the scheduled industries engaged 








Sec 3 (ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 3837' 


in the manufacture or production of Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, in place of members ap¬ 
pointed under the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry Order No. S.O. 
1435 IDRA/6/1/66, dated the 7th May, 1966, as amended from time to time, whose 
tenure of ofllce has expired by efflux of time or otherwise:— 


Development Council for Drugs and Pharmaceuticals 


1. Shri A. V. Mody, Managing Director, M/s. Unichem Laboratories Ltd., 22. 

Bhulabhai Desai Road, Bombay-26.—Chairman. 

2. Shri Keith C. Roy, Managing Director, M/s. Merck Sharp & Dhome of Indie 

Ltd., Dugal House, Backbay Reclamation, Bombay-1. 

3. Dr. K. A. Hamid, Managing Director, M/s. CIPLA, 289, Bcllasia Road, 

Bombay-1, 

4. Dr. D. V. K, Raju, Managing Director, M/s. Crookes Intcrfran Ltd., 254-D, Dr. 

Annie Besant Road, Worli, Bombay-12. 28-DD. 

5. Shri N. M. Shah, M/s. Atul Drug House, 85, I?r. Annie Besant Road, Worli, 

Bombay. 

6. Dr. J. N. Banerjee, Director, M/s, Sandoz (India) Ltd., Sandoz House, Worli,. 

Bombay-18. 

7 Dr. N. Rengaswami, Chief Analyst, M/s. Glaxo Laboratories (India) Private 
Ltd., Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, Bombay-18. 

8. Dr. S. K. Mehta, Chief Chemist, M/s. Boehringer Knoll Lid,, United India 
Building, Pherozeshah Road, Bombay-1, 

9 Dr. S. Rohtagi, M/s. Hind Chemicals Ltd., M/336, Rail Bazar, Kaupur. 

10. Bhai Mohan Singh, Chairman & Chief Executive, M/s. Ranbaxy Laboratories - 

(Private) Ltd., Okhla, New Delhi. 

11. Prof. Rangaswamy, Dcptt. of Chemistry, University of Delhi, Delhi. 

12. Shri Rattanlal Gupta, 1424, Chandni Chowk, Delhi, 

13. Dr, B, N. Ghosh, Managing Director, M/s. Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuti¬ 

cals Works Ltd., 6, Ganesh Chunder Avenue, Calcutta-13. 

14. Shri M. S. Shastri, Chief Executive, M/s. Synbiotics Ltd., Wadi Wadi, Baroda. 

15. Shri C. S. Raju, M/s. South India Research Institute (P) Ltd., Srinagar, Vijaya¬ 

wada (Andhra Pradesh). 

16. Dr, J, J, Neuruker, M/s. Sunneeta Laboratories, 89-B/90, Industrial P«tntw t 

Indore (M.P.). 

17. Shri C. A. Subrnmanyam, Managing Director, M/s. Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd., 

Pimpri, Poona. 

18. Shri Inderjit Singh, Chairman & Managing Director, M/s. Indian Drags A- 

Pharmaceuticals Ltd., N-12, South Extension Part (I), New Delhi-3. 

19. Dr. B. B. Sarkar, Director of Drags Control Administration, West Bengal, 

Calcutta. 

20. Dr. S. B. Rao, Managing Director, M/s. Navrathna Pharmaceuticals, Cochin. 

(Kerala). 

21. Shri M, L. Dhar, Director, Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow. 

22. Dr. Sbanti Patel, Kamgar Sadan, Nawab Tank Road, Mezgnon, Bombay. 

23. Dr. B. Shah, Industrial Adviser, Dte, General of Technical Development, New 

Delhi. 

24. Shri P. S. Ramacbandaran, Drugs Controller, Ministry of Health, New Delhi. 

25. Shri S. Sundararajan, Deputy Secretary, Ministry of Petroleum & Chemical*^ 

New Delhi 



3838 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1 ? 68 /BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


26 . Brig. N. K. Mitra, Dy. Director General (Equipment & Stores), Armed Force* 

Medical Services, Ministry of Defence, New Delhi. 

27 . Dr. G. P, Kane, Officer on Special Duty, Ministry of Industrial Development & 

Company Affairs, (Department of Industrial Development), New Delhi. 

28 . Dr. P. R. Gupta, Development Officer, Dte. General of Technical Development, 

New Delhi. 

2. Dr. P. R. Gupta, Development Officer, D.G.T.D., New Delhi, is hereby appointed 
do carry on the functions of the Secretary to the said Development Council. 

[No, 13(l)/68-L.CJ 

R. C. SETHI, Under Secy. 



{Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 31U July 1968 

S. O. 2854. —In exercise of the powers conferred on me under sub-regulation ( 4 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certi¬ 
fication Marts), Regulations, 1955, as amended from time to time, modifications to the provisions of the Indian Standard, details of which art 
mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter, have tentatively been made with a view to expediting the use of the Standard Mark, without in any way 
affecting the quality of goods covered by the relevant sta n dard. 

The Schedule 


Serial No. and Title of Indian Standard, the pro- Particulars of the existing Particulars of the modifications made to the Date from which the modi- 
N j. visions of which have been modified. provisions provisions fications shall come into force. 

( 1 ) (a) (3) (4) (5) 


IS 1989—1967 Specification for Miners Safety Clause 8-3 rela t ing to In clause 8 - 3 , line 2 —Read ‘1750 g’ for 22 July 1968 . 

Leather Boots and Shoes. weight of boots ‘1600 g\ 


[No. CMD/13: 4] 
(Dr) A. N. GHOSH, 
Director General. 


Sic. 3(fl)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BIIADRA 2, 1890 3839 * 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution) 

New Delhi, the 8 th August 196S 

S.O. 2 $ 55 .—In partial modification of the then Ministry of Industry notification, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3 (ii) dated 5 
September 1964 under number S.O. 3006 dated 25 August 1964 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the standard mark for vitreous 
sanitary appliances (vitreous china) has been revised. The revised designs of the standard marks together with the titles of the relevant Indian Standards 
and verbal description of the designs are given in the following schedule. 

These standard marts for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations framc^ 
thereunder shall come into force with effect from 2 j July 1968 : 


The Schedule 


SI. 

No. 

Design of the Product/Class of Products to 

Standard Mark which applicable 

No. & Title of Relevant Indian 
Standard 

Verbal description of the design of the 
Standard Mark 

I 


2 

3 

4 

5 

I 

1 

IS 12556 

Part I- 

1 

Vitreous sanitary appliances 
(general requirements) 

1 

IS: 2556 (Part I )—1967 Specification 
for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) Part I General 
requirements (first revision) 

The monogram of the Indian Standards 
Institution, consisting of letters 

‘1ST, drawn in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in col ( 2 ), the 
number, designation of the Indian Stan¬ 
dard being superscribed on the top side 
and the relevant Part No. being subs¬ 
cribed under the bottom side of the mono- 


gram as indicated in the design. 


2 IS 12556 



Part II 


wash down water-closets IS: 2556 (Part II }—1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances (vit¬ 
reous china) 


Do. 


Part II Specific requirements of wash 
down water-closets (first revision) 


3840 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Past II— 



5 is 3556 



Part III 



Part IV 

5 IS:2556 



Part V 


Equating pans and tfaps . IS: 2556 (Part Iil)-i967 Specification The monogram of the Indian Standards 1 

for vitreous sanitary appliances (vi- Institution, consisting of letters ‘ISI, 
reons china) drawn in the exact style and relative pro- 

Part III Specific requirements ofsqua- portions as indicated in col (2!, the number, 
ting pans and traps (first revision) designation of the Indian Standard bring 

superscribed on the top side and the rele- ! . 
vant Part No. being subscribed under the 
bottom side of the monogram as indicated 
in the design. 

Wash basins . „ .IS: 2556 (Part IV)—1967 Specification Do. !■ 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part IV Specific requirements of wash 
basins (first revision) 


Laboratory'sinks , , . IS:2jj6 (Part V)—1967 Specification Do. 

for viteTOUs sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part V Specific requirements of 
laboratory' sinks (first revision ) 


IS :255b Urinals 



Part VI 

7 IS: 2556 Half-round channel 



IS: 2556 (Part VI)—1967 Specification Do. 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part VI Specific requirements of urinals 

(first revision) 


IS: 2556 (Part VII)—1967 Specification Do. 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part VII Specific requirements of 
half-round channel (first revision ) 


Sec. ? VO] rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3841 




2 


3 


8 



Siphonic wash-down water 
closets 


9 IS: 2556 Bidets . 



4 


5 


IS: 2556 (Part VIII)—1967 Specification The monogram of the Indian Standards 
for vitreous sanitary appliances Institution, consisting of letters TSI’ 
(vitreous china) drawn in the exact style and relative 

Part VIII Specific requirements of proportions as indicated in col (2), the 
siphonic wash-down water closets number designation of the Indian Standard 
(first revision) being superscribed on the top side and the 

relevant Part No. being subscribed under 
the bottom side of the monogram as indi¬ 
cated in the design. 


IS: 2556 (Tart IX)—1967 Specification Do. 

for vitreous sanitaty appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part IX Specific requirements of bidets 
(first revision) 


IS: 2556 (Part X)—1967 Specification Do. 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china) 

Part X Specific requirements of foot 
rests (first revision) 


[No. CMD/13 : 9-] 
(DR-) SADGOPAL, 
Deputy Director General. 


IS 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II- 






SEC. 3{Ii)l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHaURA 2, 1890 3843 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 25 th July 1968 

SO. 2856 .—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph (Censor¬ 
ship) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri A- L. Srinivasan 
as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors with immediate effect. 

[No. F. U/ 8 / 67 -F(C).] 

H. B. KANSAL, Under Secy. 


fccvft, 25 ; 3[RT| ) 1968 

tr$fo*ito 2857.—ffFTRP-'taTO (^--^<^1^) FU, 1958^fWT4 % RTR TferT 
f'rPRTTUtrrTi(TRJ, 1952, ^ SJKT 3 ^ RWTT ( l), % RRFfa RW RftrTRf ^*FJRTT, 
RTCtf RUfflT >sfr 7o it^o sftfRRTRR Tt snft facR RRR RR RRFPT 

ftRTO RTRjft $ i 

[tfWT ll/8/67-iTR:(Rt'o).] 


r[fT dl«f 4 TRR, RRT 0R4 I 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 3 rd August 1968 

8.0.2858.—In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactments 
specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government after considering th 
recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay, hereby approves the films specified ie 
column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Marathi and Hindi language versions to bn 
of the description specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 

The Fikst Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section (4) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, i9j2(Central 
Act XXXVII of I 952 J- 

(2) Sub-Section(3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1553 
(Bombay Act XI of 1953). 


The Second Schedule 


SI. Title of the film Length Nameofthe Name ofthe Whether a scientific or a film 
No, 35 mm Applicant Producer intended for educational pur¬ 

poses or a film dealing with 
news and current events or 
a documentary film. 


1234 5 


6 


1 Maharashtra News 283’00 M Director of Publicity, Film dealing with news and 
No. 194, Govt, of Maharashtra, current events (For release 

Bombay. in Maharashtra Circuit only). 


[No. 24/1/68-FP APP. 1276.] 






3844 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 

S.O. 2859.—In pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of each of the enact' 
ments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto, the Central Government after considering 
the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board, Bombay hereby approves the film specified in 
column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Gujarati to’be of the description specified 
against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule. 

The First Schedule 

(1) Sub-Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 19S2 
(Central Act XXXVII of 1952). 

(2) Sub-Section 3 of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 

1953 (Bombay Act XVII of 1953). 

(3) Sub-Section (4) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation) 
Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVrl of 1953). 

The Second Schedule 


SI. Title of tne Length Name of the Name of Whether a scientific film 
No, film 35mm Applicant the Producer or a film intended for 

educational purposes or 
a film dealing with news 
and current events or a 
documentary film 


1 


3 4 5 


6 


Mahidchitra i 67'64M 
No. 97 


Director of Information, 
Government of Gujarat, 
Ahmedabad-15. 


Film dealing with News 
and current events 
(For release in Gujarat 
circuit only). 


[No. F. 24/1/68-FP. App. 1278.] 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL, Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 

S.O. 2860 .—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Chandigarh, in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Caledonian Insurance Company, New Delhi and their workmen, which was received by 
the Central Government on the 20 th July. 1968 . 

BEFORE SHRI ISHWAR DAS PAWAR, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, GOVERNMENT 
OF INDIA, CONSTITUTED UNDER CLAUSE (D) SUB-SECTION ( 1 ) OF SECTION JO 
OF THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, 

Reference Nos. 2 /c and 6/c. 

In the matter of Industrial Dispute 


Between 

The workmen and the management of M/s. Caledonian Insurance Company, New 
Delhi. 






Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3845 


Presence: 


^hullar and Shri P. C. Bose —for the management. 
Snn Madan Mohan -—for the workmen. 


AWARD 


By virtue of an order dated 3rd January, 1967 the Central Government referred the 
following items of dispute to this Tribunal Consequent upon an industrial dispute having 
come into existence between the employers in relation to the Caledonian Insurance 
Company, New Delhi and their workmen, for adjudication ;_ 


1. Whether the benefits of gratuity and leave given by the Caledonian Insurance 
Company, New Delhi to the peons and drivers employed by them need 
improvement ? 


2. If so, to what extent and from what date. 


By. another order of the 7th July, 1967 the Central Government further referred the 
following item of dispute between the same parties, to this Tribunal for adjudication: 

Whether any or all of the existing conditions of service mentioned below relating 
to peons and drivers employed by Caledonian Insurance Company, New 
Delhi, need any improvement ? If so, to what extent and from what date ? 

(1) Pay scales; 

(2) Dearness allowance; 

(3) Overtime allowance; 

(4) Age of retirement; 


In response to the notices issued to (he parties they appeared before the Tribunal 
through their representatives and filed statements of their respective cases. The pleadings 
of the parties filed in both the eases give rise to the following issues :— 

(Ref. No. 2/C) 


1, Whether the benefits of gratuity and leave given by the Caledonian Insurance 

Company, New Delhi to the peons and drivers employed by them need 
improvement ? 

2. If so, to what extent and from what date. 


3. What is the affect on this reference of the provisions of the Delhi Shops and 
Establishments Act and on the claim of the workmen for improvement under 
the leave facilities ? 


(Ref. No. 6/C) 

J. Whether the dispute was not espoused by a sufficient number of workmen or by 
a union representing substantial number of workmen ? 

2. Whether any or all of the existing conditions of service mentioned below 
relating to peons and drivers employed by Caledonian Insurance Company, 
New Delhi, need any improvement 7 If so, to what extent and from what 
date ? 

(1) Pay scales; 

(2) Dearness allowance; 

(3) Overtime allowance; 

(4) Ago of retirement; 

Issue No. 3 of the first reference was decided by my order dated 9th August, 1967. 

On the. 29th of September, 1967, the representatives of the parties made statements 
that the two references be taken up together as evidence in both of them was more or 
less common. Accordingly the two cases were ordered to be taken up together. This 
award will, therefore, dispose of both the references. 

After evidence had been partly recorded the representatives of the parties prayed for 
time as the parties were negotiating for a settlement. For this purpose a few adjournments 
were granted and ultimately the parties succeeded in arriving at a mutual settlement on all 
the points involved in both the references. The settlement is Ext. AR 1 and it is signed 



3846 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Tart II— 


by Shri P. C. Bose, Branch Manager, of the Company for and on behalf of the manage¬ 
ment and by Sarvshri Ram Singh, Dalip Singh and Sham Singh for and on behalf of the 
workmen. The terms and conditions of this settlement are as under:— 

SCALES OF PAY: 

The following scales of pay are agreed w.e.f, 1st October, 1965. 

(i) Peons—Rs. 30—2—40—3—70—4—90. 

(ii) Drivers—Rs. 55—2—65—3—95—4—115. 

Adjustment —Employees will be fitted into the revised scales of pay and where an 
employee whose salary on 30th September, 1965 does not fit in a step in the new scale, 
he will be fitted into the new scale of basic salary at the point next above the basic salary 
actually drawn by him on 30th September, 1965. One ad hoc increment effective 1st 
October, 1965 will be granted. After the above adjustment, all the employees will get 
their usual annual increments according to the revised pay scale on and from the date 
they are allowed their annual increments as at present. 

Dearness allowance—It is agreed that a scheme of Dearness allowance for subordinate 
staff be introduced as follows w.e.f. 1st October, 1965:— 

When the All-India Consumer Price Index Number Base 1949—-100 is at the figure 
170, the members of the subordinate staff would be paid dearness allowance 
of Rs, 95 per month and for every rise and fall of five points in the index 
figure, there would be an increase or decrease in the quantum of dearness 
allowance by Rs. 5. 

Working hours and overtime. —It is agreed that the Peons would be required to attend 
the office 1/2 an hour earlier and leave 15 minutes later every day beyond the usual office 
hours. As such, the Peons’ hours of work will be : 

Mondays to Fridays—9-30 a.m. to 5-45 p.m. With one hour break for lunch. 

Saturdays—9-30 a.m. to 1-45 p.m. 

The working hours of the drivers will be : 

9.00 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. 

1.00 a m. to 2.30 p.m. 

4.00 p.m. to 7.00 p.m. 

For work beyond the normal hours of work, as prescribed above, overtime allowance will 
be paid at the rate prescribed in the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act but for the 
purposes of calculation of overtime, a cushion period of 15 minutes would be deducted 
before overtime can be claimed and no overtime will be payable for this cushion period, 
on that particular day. 

Medical Aid.—The company agrees to reimburse on production of a medical certificate 
and/or the receipts for prescriptions prescribed by a registered doctor, an amount upto 
but not exceeding Rs. 75 in any one year. It is clearly understood that this benefit will 
apply only to the employee himself, It is also agreed that as a special case Shri Sham 
Singh would be re-imbursed an amount for which he has already submitted medical bills. 

Gratuity. —Effective 1st October, 1965—gratuity wall be paid to permanent members of 
the subordinate staff who are subscribers to the Provident Fund (excluding part-time or 
temporary employees), subject in all cases to a maximum of 15 months' last basic salary 
at the following rates :—- 

(i) On normal retirement or reaching the age of superannuation, or at death, or on 

permanent total incapacity at the rates of one month’s last basic salary for 
' every year of service completed with the company. 

(ii) Subject to an employee completing ten years of service with the company, on 

retrenchment (where retrenchment compensation is payable under the Indus¬ 
trial Disputes Act) at the rate of half a month’s last basic salary for every 
completed year of service with the company. 

(iii) No gratuity will be paid to an employee who is dismissed for misconduct. 

(iv) On termination of service by the company for any other reason not specifically 
provided for above at the rate of one month’s last basic salary for every 
completed year of service with the company. 

Any gratuity payable under the above Rules plus the total amount to which the 
employee is entitled under the Provident Fund shall be the total retiral benefits payable by 
the company and there will be no other form of retrospective adjustment. 



SEC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3847 


Retirement Age.—ll is agreed that the age of retirement shall be 58 years and the 
employee concerned shall be retired on 7th April following their attainment of the age of 
. The dale of birth already on records of the Company in any manner whatsoever shall 
be conclusive proof of age. The company retains the right to retire an employee earlier 
on medical grounds. 1 


Provident Fund .—The present rules will continue. 

Leave: (a) Privilege Leave —Privilege leave granted will be inclusive of Saturdays and 
Sunday; or public holidays notified under the Negotiable Instruments Act which may 
intervene. 3 


Privilege Leave Entitlement: 

14 days per annum after completion of one year’s service and 

until completion of seven years’ service. 

21 days per annum after completion of 7 years’ service and 

until the completion of 15 years service. 

28 days per annum after completion of 15 years’ service, 

An employee may be permitted, subject to the exigencies of the office to accumulate two 
.years’ leave according to the settlement of leave entitlement specified above. 

(b) CasuaTeum-sick leave: 

(i) A maximum of 12 days casual-cum-sick leave will be allowed in each calender year 
to each employee with full pay (basic plus D.A.). Where casual leave is sought it shall 
not he granted for more than two days at a time and such leave shall not be permitted 
to be prefixed or suffixed fo holidays or to any other kind of leave. 

1 ill Where leave js sought on grounds of sickness, it will be considered only when the 
■request K accompanied by a medical certificate from a doctor acceptable to the company. 

(iii) Casual and sick leave will he non-accumulative. 

Bonin. —Subject to any prohibition of the Government of India, a permanent employee 
in the service of the company at the time Bonus is paid will be entitled to a bonus each 
year equivalent to one and a half month’s basic salary, except where such employee has 
not completed one years service as at the time of payment when the Bonus shall be paid 
on a pro rata basis for the neriod commencing from the date of his appointment upto 
31st December. Where a probationer is in the service of the Company at the time of the 
payment of the Bonus but has not been confirmed, on subsequent confirmation before 31st 
December in that year he will be entitled to receive a pro rata bonus at that time calculated 
from the date of his first appointment to the 31st December. 

Uniform -The present practxc will continue. 

Confirmation: 

(a) Temporary staff. —To temporary employees who have been engaged for work which 
is of essentially a temporary nature likely to be finished within a limited period, none 
of the benefits under this agreement will apply. Both the parties agree that temporary 
employees if any will he confirmed on completion of six months’ continuous service tind 
they would be entitled to benefits under this settlement on confirmation. 

(b) Probationers. —-In the case of employees appointed on probation, the probationary 
period would be maximum for six months. 

All other demands mentioned in the charter of demands arc deemed to be settled. 

It is agreed that this settlement is a settlement under section 2(P) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. In consideration of the demands settled by the management the 
employees agree that they shall not ise any demand involving any financial burden and 
implication on the company during the period this settlement is in operation. 

It is agreed that this settlement shall remain in force for a minimum period of two 
years from the date of signing i.e. 22nd June, 1968 and shall continue to remain in opera¬ 
tion even thereafter unless terminated by either party by giving the other party two calendar 
months written notice of its intention to terminate the settlement in acordance with law. 



3848 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part H— 


Hence I give an award in terms of the settlement reproduced above. 


There shall be no order as to costs. 
Dated, the 16th July, 1968. 


(Sd.) ISHWAR DAS PA WAR, 
Industrial Tribunal, 
Government of India. Chandigarh, 


[No. 70(1)/66JLRIV.| 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1988 

S-O. 2861 .—Whereas the applications, spec'ficd in the Schedule bere'o annexed, vrder 
subsection ( 2 ) of section 3 3 C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) are pending before 
the Labour Court, Bombay; 

And, whereas for the ends of justice and convenience of parties, it is necessary to transfer 
the proceedings to the Labour Court at Nagpur; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 33 B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby withdraws the pro¬ 
ceedings in relation to the said applications pending before the Labour Court, Bombay and transfer 
the same to the Labour Court, Nagpur, constituted by the notification of the Government of 
India, in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 3453 dated the 22 nd September, 1967 with Shri P. D. Kulkarni as the 
Presiding Officer, and directs that the said Court shall proceed with the said applications frcm the 
stage at which they are transferred and dispose of the same according to Law. 


SI. Case Nos. Name of the applicant Remarks 

No. 


I 

LCB/ 185/67 

, Shrl Dhanoo Bhagoo 

2 

LCB/ 186/67 

. Shrl Pratapsingh Bhikansingh 

3 

LCB/ 187/67 

. Shri Maroti V crikati 

4 

LCB/ 188/67 

. ShriH.D. Vaidya 

J 

LCB/ 1 S 9/67 

. Shri Shamsunder Mahabir Prasad 

6 

LCB/ 190/67 

. Shri Mangal Bapuna 

7 

LCB/ 191/67 

. Shri Sadhusingh Harnamsingh 

8 

LCB/ 192/67 

. Shri Abdul Wahid 

9 

LCB/ 193/67 

. Shri Shankar Sukhdeo 

10 

LCB/ 150/67 

. Shri Jogendra Singh 

II 

LCB/ 229/67 

. Shri B. K. Auglawe 

12 

LCB/ 230/67 

. Shri Mehtralall 

*3 

LCB/ 15/68 

. Shri Mahadeo Mangalsingh 

H 

LCB -44 of 196 S . 

. ShriBudhulalMotilal 

15 

LCB -9 of 1968 . 

. Shri Gannu 

16 

LCB -2128 of 1968 

. Shri A. J. Fernandes 

17 

LCB- 140 IT 96 B . 

. Shri JamnaBharosc and others 


[No. 2 / 21 / 68 -LRIII] 

New Delhi , the 2nd August 1968 

S.O. 2863 . —Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Management of Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited, Charkh: 
aDadri and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, Whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the raid dispute fci 
d judication; 





Set 3(iU)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BIIADRA 2 , 1890 3849 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A, and clause (d) of 
sub-section (i) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947,(14 of 1947 ) the Central Govern¬ 
ment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with $hri Ishwar DaB Pawar as the Presiding 
Officer, with Headquarters at Chandigarh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal. 


Schedule I 

1 . Whether the action of the management of Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited, Charkhi Dadri 
in stopping the following 172 workmen trom work with effect from the date shown against each 
was Justified ? If not, to what relief are they entitled ? 


SI. Name and Father’s Name Village Date from 

which 
stopped 
from work 


I 

Ramdevas/o.Ruda 





, Rigas 

2 - 8-1968 

2 

Chctu s/o Flam . 





Do. 

Do. 

3 

Hceraa/oKalu . 





. Sukhpura 

Do. 

4 

Maidas/oParbu . 





Leharwara 

Do. 

«; 

Kama s/o Parbu 





Do. 

Do. 

6 

Suwas/oKalu , 





. Sukhpura 

Do. 

1 

Ramjilal s/o Kund a n . 





. Bhawrari 

Do. 

8 

Ratan s/o Sohan 





Alasar 

Do. 

9 

Mohan s/o Mangla 





. Anglai 

Do. 

10 

Kishan s/o Sohan 





. Alisar 

Do. 

II 

Birju s/o Nanu Ram . 





. Chara 

Do. 

12 

Bedus/oRuda . 





. Rigas 

Do. 

13 

Mandus/oBodu 





. Aglai 

Do. 

14 

Devas/oBedu . , 





Do. 

Do. 

T5 

Makhan 8/0 Mangla 





Do. 

Do. 

16 

Fatu s/o Kalu 





. Madawara 

Do. 

17 

Narains/oBalu , 





. Anglai 

Do. 

18 

Suxjas/oBflgji . 





. Mavrari 

Do. 

19 

Surta s/o Bala 





Do. 

Do. 

20 

Tale s /0 Chandgi Ram . 





Kubja 

Do. 

21 

Ramdhan s/o Mam 





Bhuwtana 

Do. 

22 

Rohtas s/o Udrni 





Kapuri 

Do. 

23 

lane s/o Lila 





. Mavu 

Do. 

24 

Bhagrith s/o Dulu 





. Rigas 

Do. 

25 

Kalus/oDalu 





Do. 

Do. 

26 

Lain s/o Sohan . 





. Alisar 

Do. 

27 

Mahlas/o Jhuwara 





. Rigas 

Do. 

28 

TaRan s/o Bagji . 





, Rhavatri 

Do. 

29 

Chandu s/o Fool Singh 





Do. 

Do. 

30 

Kale s/o Nathu . 





, Rigas 

Do. 

31 

Sheo Ram s/o Harkaran 





. Madhogarh 

Do. 

32 

Kalan s/o Sohan 





. Alisar 

Do. 

33 

Duwarkn s/o Foolsingh 





. Bhawathri 

Do. 

34 

puran s/o Imraj . 





. Adcpur 

Do. 

35 

Goma s/o Mangla 





Atflai 

Do. 

36 

Chetu s/o Bholu . 





. Regas 

Do. 

37 

Sankars/o Binja 





Do. 

Do. 

38 

Mansingh s/o Gopal 





Mambulia 

Do. 

39 

Tara Ghana s/o Surja . 





, Bavarian 

Do. 

40 

Tuglal s/o Mamruj 





Do. 

Do. 

4 1 

Sheo parshad s/o Gopalsmgh 




Do. 

Do. 

42 

Bheram s/oTeja. 





. Khanpur 

Do. 

43 

Ramsarup s/o Searam . 





. Jhinjher 

Do. 

44 

Nagar s /o Nurda 





Nandha 

Do. 

45 

Riciipal s / 0 Heera 





. Regas 

Do. 

46 

Naratns/oHeera 





Do. 

Do. 

47 

Parbhat s/o Bhura 





, Haspur 

Do. 

48 

Ramkishan s/o Mansingh 





. Leharwara 

Do, 

49 

Rampartap s/o Dhansingh 





, Jhinjher 

Do. 

50 

Randhir s/o Chandgi . 





Do. 

Do. 










3850 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Fart It- 


SI. Name and Father’s Name 
No. 


51 Chirangis s/o Kundan . 

52 Dayanand 9/0 Randan 

53 Omparkash 9/0 Arjan Singh 

54 Bhura s/o Mohan 

55 Jagu s/o Mohan . 

5 ® Maglas/o Nandu 

57 Parbu 8/0 Baksa . 

58 Sarwans/oNathu 

59 Bakhtawars/o Gopal , 

60 Hatari a/o Nathu 

61 Mange 8/0 Gopal 

62 Dungas/o Daln . 

63 Motis/o Gordhan 

64 Budh Ram 9/0 Mohan 

65 Magu 9/0 Gopal , 

66 Bhana s/o Ganesh 

67 Bholas/oAsa 

68 Parbhats/oLalehand , 

69 Lalch and 3/0 Mohan 

70 Moolchand s / o Lalchand 

71 Kama s/o Sunda 

72 Sunda s/o Dula , 

73 Lichman s/o Sunda 

74 Ganesh s/o Ladu 
75. Goda 

76 Rajkaran s/o Amar Singh 

77 Manphool 9/0 Chunia , 

78 Banwari s/o Chunia 

79 Rampal 3/0 Chunia 

80 Marus/oRajc 
Si Desas/oNeki 

82 Indras/oNeki , 

83 Sameras/o Maru 

84 Ramchandra s/o Ramjilal 

85 Raisingh s/o Neki 

86 parlad s/o Ranjeet 

87 Mailals/o Sheonath 

88 Mange s/o Dugar 

89 Santu s/o Chiranjilal . 

90 Husara s/o Mahinder . 

91 Munsis/o Kishanlal 

92 Hanuman s/o Jhathu , 

93 Sunda s/o Gula . 

94 Jodha s/o Hanuman 

95 Bhuru b/o Kumha 

96 Ganesh s/o Kumha 

97 Jhabar s/o Giga 

98 Narain s/o Cheta 

99 Nandas/o Cheta 

100 Mahala s/o Sankar Budela 

101 Ramesars/oBhagwana 

102 Hanuman s/o Surja 

103 Nanus/oKalu , 

104 Rameshar s/o Gula 

105 Bhajnas/o Lakhma 

106 Bholu s/o Chela . 

107 Nihalu s/o Kharri 

108 Sudhan s/o Rhola 

109 Maman s/o DayaRam , 

HO Mange s/o Lila . 

Hi Mathu s/o Lila , 

H2 Balbir s/o Deena , 


Village Dale from 

which 
stopped 
from work 


Bhawathri 2-3-1968 


Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Majipura 

6-3-1968 

Do. 

Do. 

Sawami kj dhanl 

Do. 

Ma]ipura 

Do. 

Chapeli 

Do. 

Samaspur 

Do. 

Chapeli 

Do. 

Samaspur 

Do. 

Sawami ki dhani 

Do. 

Kundan 

Do. 

Majipura 

Do. 

Khora 

Do. 

Paleki dhani 

Do. 

Pulri 

Do. 

Majipura 

Do- 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Sunderpura 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Buchawasi 

Do. 

Manaksas 

Do. 

Samaspur 

Do. 

Mahrana 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do- 

Do. 

Do. 

Leharwara 

Do. 

Mahrapa 

Do- 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Katlatial 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do- 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Palri 

Do. 

Balcdi 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Bade] a 

Do. 

Mankawas 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Gerlda 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Biredi 

Do. 

Biheror 

27-2-1968 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 












Stic. Hull THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3851 


SI- Name and Father’s Name Village Date from 

*°* which 

stopped 
from work 


113 

Ulvvir s/o Sheochand . 






Biheror 

27-2-1 

114 

Rim Parshad s/o Puran 






Do. 

Do. 

IT 5 

Dlnrma 1/0 Hardeva . 






Do. 

Do. 

116 

R'sale 3/0 Puran . 






Do. 

Do. 

117 

Umed s/o Puran 






Do. 

Do, 

ti 8 

Banwari s/o Daya Ram 






Do. 

Do. 

119 

Chhote s/o Balwant 






Do. 

Do. 

120 

Sadhuram s/o Hardeva 






Do. 

Do. 

T2I 

Partap s/o Bhaikhar 






Majra 

Do- 

122 

Sisram s/o Balwant 






Bihror 

Do. 

123 

Jailal s/o Kharvi 






Do. 

Do. 

124 

Dharam Pal s/o Sis Ram 






Do. 

Do. 

125 

Bhikhu s/o Rup Chand 






Do. 

Do. 

12^ 

Ram Sarup s/o Bhikhu 






Do. 

Do. 

127 

Sitar s/o Bhikhu 






Do. 

Do. 

128 

Raghbir s/o Samuh 






Do. 

Do. 

129 

Risal s/o Samuh . 






Do. 

Do. 

130 

Inder s/o Mam Chand . 






Do. 

Do. 

T 3 i 

Ratia 9/0 Juglal . 






Do. 

Do. 

132 

Banwari s/o Jug Lai 






Do. 

Do. 

133 

Rameshwars/o Ratia , 






Do. 

Do. 

134 

Girdhari s/o Juglal 






Do. 

Do. 

135 

Munsis/o Girdhari 






Do. 

Do. 

136 

Ramphal s/o Girdhari . 






Do. 

Do. 

137 

Chhote La] 9/0 Bihari Lai 






Bhagvi 

Do. 

138 

Chander s/o Balwant , 






Bihror 

Do. 

139 

Partap s/o Chuna 






Do. 

Do. 

140 

Tage s/o Kushla 






Do. 

Do. 

141 

Kartar s/o Kushla 






Do. 

Do. 

142 

Balbirs/o Muna 






Do. 

Do. 

143 

Tare s/o Mangtoo 






Do. 

Do. 

144 

Bharthu s/o Sahia 






Do. 

Do. 

145 

Ram Kishorc s/o Kanhaya 






Kundrali 

Do. 

146 

Tage s/o Nathua . 






Bihror 

Do. 

147 

Santrai s/o Jage 






Do. 

Do. 

148 

Om Parkash s/o Subha Chand 





Do. 

Do. 

149 

Sher Singh s/o Bhanju 






Do. 

Do. 

ISO 

Ramphal s/o Subhachand 






Do. 

Do. 

151 

Rajenders/o Subhachand 






Do. 

Do. 

I52 

Kundun s/o Maria 






Do. 

Do. 

153 

Vishnu s/o Bhandc 






Do. 

Do. 

154 

Santu s/o Jhandu 






Do. 

Do. 

155 

Risal s/o Bhalla , 






Kaliawas 

Do. 

156 

Chander s/o Siria 






Do. 

Do. 

157 

Banwari s/o Jatusana . 






Do. 

Do. 

158 

Mehar Singh s/o Chhaju 






Bihror 

Do. 

159 

Thabal s/o Giani , 






Do, 

Do. 

160 

Jit s/o Dan! 






Do. 

Do. 

ifii 

Bhagwana s/o Lai Chand 






Kaliawas 

Do. 

162 

Kartar s/o Bhagwana . 






Do. 

Do. 

163 

lagan s/o Bhuna 






Bihror 

Do. 

164 

Jegi s/o JaiDayal 






Kaliawas 

Do. 

165 

Chandgi s/o Nana 






Do. 

Do. 

166 

Sant Lai s/o Bala 






Do. 

Do. 

167 

Subha s/o Lai Chand . 






Do. 

Do. 

168 

Ratan s/o Banwari 






Do. 

Do. 

169 

Late s/o Chandgi 






Bihror 

Do. 

170 

Ratia s/o Jugti 






Do. 

Do. 

171 

Kanhaya s/o Jugti 






Do. 

Do. 

172 

Darya s/o Subharam , 






Kaliawas 

Do. 


[No. 36/12/6S-LRI]. 











g 5 2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1968 

S.O. 2863-—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
Limited, 2/1, First Line Beach (Dare House Extension), Madras-1 and their work¬ 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7A and clause (d) 
of sub-s'ectlon (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M. Tajam- 
mul Hussain as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at 1st Line Beach, Madras 
and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial, Tribunal. 

Schedule 

Whether the Punjab National Bank Limited, Madras is justified in declaring 
Shrl S. Rajagopalan, the senior most employee at Ramnathapuram as surplus and 
transferring him to Ambur on that account? If not, to what relief is the employee 
entitled? 

[No. 23/45/68-LRIII.l 
O- P. TALWAR, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1908 

S. O .3864 —.In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 F of the Employee’s State 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location of the 
factory in the Schedule below in sparse area in the State of Kerala, hereby exempts the said factory 
from the payment of the employers’ special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act until enforcement of the provis ions of Chapter V of the said Act in that 'area ; 

Schedule 


SI. No. Name of District 

Name of area 

Name of the factory 

1 Trichur 

Vadakumkara 

M/s. Pathrcsc Ricetrt C. 'M'!!s 


[No. F. 6(T9)/68-HI] 


New Delhi, the 8 th August 1068 

S, 0 . 2865 . —1 n exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employ ces’ Stale Jrfu 
ranceAct, 1948(34 of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the location of the fscron'e 
mentioned in the Schedule below, in sparse areas in the State of Utter Pradesh, hercty e.varpi s 
the saidfactories from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter V A 
of the said Act until the enforcement of the provisions oi Chaplet V of the said A.ct ir 1} ct < Oteep. 

Schedule 


S.No. Name oi'the Distt. Name of Area Name of the factory 


1 Faizabad . . , Tanda , . (i) M/s. S. B. Agrawal& Co. Chhajapur. 

(it) M/s. Beblolpur Calendering Co. 

(lit) M/s, Kedamatb Finishing Works, 
(if) M/s, Tanda Industrial Co, Chhajapur. 


[No. F.J6(lo)/68-HI] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 




Se'.3(u)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHACRA 2, 1890 3853 : 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th August 1968 

S.O. 2866.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the-- 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute bet¬ 
ween the employers In relation to the Sasti Colliery, Post Office Ballarpur, District 
Chanda and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the' 
6 th August, 1968. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUAf-LABOUR COURT. 

JABALPUR 

Dated July 29, 1968 


present; 

Shri G. C. Agarwala, Presiding Officer 

Case Ref. No. CGIT/LC (R)(17) of 1968 


F t F.TIES; 

Employers In relation to the Sasti Colliery, P.O- Ballarpur, D'lstt- Chanda;. 
(Maharashtra). 

V.t. 

Their workman, represented through Maharashtra Colliery Workers’ Union, 
P.O- Ballarpur, Distt, Chanda (Maharashtra). 

Appearances : 

For employers .—Sri S. V. Kanade, Personnel Officer. 

For worknuin. —Dr. D. P- Kawadkar, President of the Union- 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mine. DISTRICT: Chanda (M-SE¬ 

AWARD 

By Notification No- 3/2/68-LRII, dated 21st February 1968 the Ministry of La¬ 
bour, Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Labour & Employment), Gov¬ 
ernment of India, referred the following matter of dispute as stated in schedule to 
the order of reference, to this Tribunal for adjudication: — 

Matter of Dispute 

Whether the management of Sasti Colliery, Post Office, Ballarpur, District 
Chanda (Madhya Pradesh) is justified in superannuating Shri Saiam 
Mallaya, Mining Sirdar on the 9th August, 1967? If not, to what relief 
is the workman entitled? 

2 Sallam Mallaya was a Mining Sirdar in Sasti Colliery of the Ballarpur 
Colli.Ties Company which has Head office at Nagpur- The Colliery is situated 
in district Chanda (Maharashtra State). Sallam Mallaya had been in the service of 
the Colliery for about 40 years and as a Mining Sirdar for about 26 years. The 
Certified Standing Orders of the Company has a Clause No. 20(4) that a work¬ 
man may be superannuated after attaining the age of 55 years- In the records 
of the company his date of birth is recorded as 20th July 1907- He holds an 
Underground Sirdar’s Certificate issued by the Mining Department which is 
dated 15th April, 1943 (Ex- E/1). While issuing the certificate of fitness his 
age was recorded as 38 years- The management, both on the basis of the under¬ 
ground Sirdar’s Certificate and the recorded age in the Identity Card found that 
Sallam Mallaya has crossed 60 years of age which was more by five years than 
the superannuation age under the Standing Orders. Further under Regulation 
28 of the Coal Mines Regulations the stand taken by the management was that 
he could not be retained as a Sirdar after 60 years of age. Consequently, the 
management by their letter dated 9th August, 1967 superannuated Sallam Mallaya 
with immediate effect. He collected all his dues, quarterly bonus, earned 
wages and notice pay, all in the month of August. The Bombay Pradesh Mine 
Workers Union by letter dated 12th September, 1967 raised a dispute of superan¬ 
nuation of 8 workers including Sallam Mallaya. Conciliation proceedings took 
place from 23rd September, 1967 and the management was represented by one 
Sri Sriniwasan, Special Officer, and the Union by the Secretary, Sri R, D. Singh. 
For Sallam Mallaya the Union was satisfied that the superannuation was justified 1 



385 *!- THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


but insisted lor payment of dues including Profit Bonus. The management 
alter checking up the position paid the Profit Bonus also on 28 th September, 
1967 as agreed. Another Union, Maharashtra Colliery Workers Union, ol which 
Sallam Mallaya claims to be a member, It apear* sent a communication to the 
management on 19 th August by reason of the arbitration award of Dr- B- D. 
Sharma dated 30 th December, 1963 that. Sallam Mallaya before superannuation 
should have been given a letter for determination of age by the Civil Surgeon- 
It may be mentioned that pn the question ol superannuation age under 
Cl. 20 ( 4 ) (a) of the Standing Orders ol a certain number of workers a dispute was 
raised by this Union, Maharashtra Colliery Workers Union- There was arbitra¬ 
tion agreement under the Code of Discipline on 1 st November, 1963 (Ex. W/ 3 ). 
’The specific matter referred to arbitrator was whether the management ol Ballar- 
pur, Sasti and 1 Ghugus Collieries was justified in superannuating old workers 
under the provisions of the Standing Orders and if not to what relief are the 
workers entitled. The then Conciliation Officer who was the Arbitrator recor¬ 
ded an award on 30 th December, 1963 (Ex. W/ 4 ). He directed that before 
the first notice is given for superannuation, the management should 
require proof ol age either of School Leaving Certificate or from the Civil 
Surgeon, Chanda and if requested by the worker a letter for the Civil Surgeon 
shall be given by the management- The Union complained that without com¬ 
plying with this provision Sallam Mallaya has been pre-emptorily super¬ 
annuated just because he had incurred displeasure of the management by 
deposing in a case ol one Dr- Maste before this Tribunal, Case No. CGIT/LCirb 

(I)/ 07 . He had given his statement for Dr. Maste and against the management 
in May, 1967 and SalJam Mallaya had to pay the price by superannuation after 
a couple of months in August, 1967 . It was contended that the action of the 
management was malafide with a view to victimise him. 

3 . The stand taken up by the employers was that there was no necessity to 
refer him to the Civil Surgeon for proof of age as by the certificate of the Mining 
Department issued as far back as 15 th April, 1943 , his age was over 62 years and 
so was in records of the Company. The arbitration award of Dr- Sharma was 
inapplicable inasmuch as it was under Code of Discipline and pertained to the 
case of certain specific workers. It’s application cannot be extended to the present 
case. It was further alleged that the dispute has already been conciliated at the 
instance of Bombay Pradesh Mines Workers Union and the management had im¬ 
plemented the same. It is not open for another Union to take up the dispute. 
The competency of the Union to raise the dispute was also challenged. The alle¬ 
gations of malafide and motive of victimisation were denied- On these pleas cf 
the parties, the following additional issues were framed: — 

Issues: 

( 1 ) Is the reference bad for misdescription of State of Sasti Colliery? 

( 2 ) (a) Was Sallam Mallaya member of Maharashtra Colliery Workers’ 

Union at relevent time? 

(b) Whether this Union has representative capacity to sponsor the dis¬ 
pute? 

(c) Whether the dispute had been conciliated and closed by another 
Union Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers Union and cannot be reagi¬ 
tated by another Union? 

(d) Is the dispute not an industrial dispute? 

( 3 ) What is the affect of the award of Dr- B. D- Sharma? 

( 4 ) Was the conduct of the employers in refusing a letter for medical exa¬ 

mination to Civil Surgeon unjustified- Its effect? 

( 5 ) Are the employers debarred from continuing the worker in employment 

b.y leason of Section 28 of the Mines Act and could superannuation 

under Clause 20 ( 4 ) of the Standing Orders? 

(6) Whether Sallam Mallaya accepted full and final payment and is estopped 

from challenging superannuation? 

( 7 ) Whether the superannuation was malafide and to victimise him' 1 
Ft ridings: 

Issue No. 1.—The plea has been raised on the ground that tn the order of re¬ 
ference, Sasti Colliery, P O- Ballarpur Distt. Chanda has been described within 
Madhya Pradesh, whereas actually it lies in Maharashtra. The wrong description 




Spc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 385 ^ 


of the State in the order ol reference and In the issue under reference does not. 
affect validity of the reference- The issue is answered in negative. 

Issue No- 2 (a), (b) and (d).—Sallam Mallaya has proved the membership of the 
Union by coming in evidence and filling subscription receipts, Ex. W/9A to 9/R. 
These are a number of receipts ranging from year 1965 onwards. The fact is 
further proved by the evidence of the Joint Secretary of the Union, Sri Pursottam 
Bhanudas (W. W. 2 ) who brought Counterfoil receipt books as also accounts books 
of the Union. The Membership Register was filed in Dr. Maste’s case. No. CGIT/ 
LC(R)(l)/ 67 , and is still a part of the record of that case. The Joint Secretary 
has admitted that the membership from this Colliery is only 60—-70 and has not 
increased so far, but that does not affect the competency of the Union. It may be 
noted that during conciliation proceedings the management did not challenge the 
competency of the Union to raise the dispute. They raised other points but not 
the competency of the Union. It, therefore, does not lie in their mouth to contend 
that the Union was not competent and does not possess representative capacity. The 
dispute, therefore, is an industrial dispute- 

issue No- 2 (c).—The dispute undoubtedly was raised by the Bombay Pradesh.. 
Mines Workers Union In conciliation as would appear from the letter of the 
Union dated 12 th September 1967 (Ex- E/ 4 ). The conciliation proceedings report 
dated 23 rd September 1967 (Ex. E/ 5 ) shows that the dispute was conciliated and 
then Union agreed to accept the stand of the management but pressed for pay¬ 
ment ol dues to the workers by a certain date and which was accepted by the 
management. That, however, does not debar the other Union, Maharashtra Colliery 
Workers Union, to raise the dispute again. The worker may be a member of two 
unions and the other union can also raise a dispute- It is for the management to 
bring the fact before the Conciliation Officer that the same dispute had been con¬ 
sidered and conciliated at the instance o£ another Union and It is for the Concilia¬ 
tion Officer to bring the fact to the notice of the Government in his conciliation 
failure report. The management did not bring the fact to the notice of the Con¬ 
ciliation Officer, with the result that there is no mention in the conciliation failure 
report about the earlier conciliation initiated by Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers. 
Union- There is no legal impediment for the other union to raise the dispute. It 
is, however, a different matter what view is taken on merits of the dispute in 
the background of earlier conciliation at the Instance of another union. 

Issue No. 3 .—It may be that the actual dispute before the Conciliation Officer, 
Dr. B. D. Sharma, was with regard to certain workers of two collieries only, but 
the agreement (Ex. E/ 3 ) to abide by his arbitration shows that it was a general 
one with regard to all the workers 'of the three collieries of Ballarpur, Sasti and 
Ghugus in the matter of superannuation under Standing Order Cl. 20 ( 4 )(a). The 
award Ex. W /4 also shows that the direction given by the arbitrator Dr- Sharma 
was of general nature for all workmen to bo superannuated under this clause of 
the Standing Orders. The direction, however, had no statutory binding force as 
It was only under Code of Discipline. The management could legally depart from 
the conventional practice recommended by the arbitrator In a Just and proper case 
and where the bonafides are not in doubl- The whole thing will depend on the 
bonafldes of the management. 

Issues No. 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 -—The management had good grounds to presume that, 
Sallam Mallaya had crossed the age of 60 years. There was an Underground Sirdar’s 
Certificate Issued on 8th March, 1943 (Ex. E/ 1 ) in which his age was recorded as 
38 years. This is revalidated after a medical test every 5 years and the fact was 
admited by Sallam Mallaya himself. He did not care to challenge the fact of any 
Inaccuracy in age as recorded in this certificate. Apart from this, his date of 
birth specifically had been mentioned as 20 th July 1967 in the records of the Com¬ 
pany which he never cared to get It corrected. This was evidently because the 

age was lower than recorded in the Underground Sirda’s Certificate- He had 

crossed 60 on either of the two basis. There was no point in the management re¬ 
quiring Sallam Mallaya to get himself medically examined by the Civil Surgeon, 
and procuring proof of age, The bonafldes were accepted by the other Union, 
Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers Union, when the matter was taken up in conci¬ 
liation by this Union. The evidence of Sri Srinlwasan (E- W- 1 ) Special Officer 
who took part in the conciliation procedurlngs that Sallam Mallaya himself was 
present appears to be worthy of acceptance- Sallam Mallaya cannot be believed 
that the Union would take up the dispute without his knowledge and consent or 
that he was not even a member of that union. The fact that Sallam Mallaya ac¬ 
cepted payment of all the dues viz-, quarterly bonus and notice pay on 18 th and 

19 th August, 1967 indicates that he accepted the validity of superannuation. In, 
furtherance of the conciliation settlement he was paid Profit Bonus for 1965 66 
on 28 th September 1967 as stated in paragraph 12 of the written statement of the 



3856 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [Part II— 


employers. The payment is proved by the evidence of the Manager, Sri Kumar 
Higher Limsay, and the Wages Payment Register (Ex- E/6). Although principle 
of estoppel and acquiescence is seldom attracted in Industrial adjudication yet in 
a fit and proper case a worker cannot be allowed to go back from a position 
which he had voluntarily accepted- Sallam Mallaya had evidently crossed 60 years 
of age and under Sec. 28 of the Mines Act it was not open for the management 
to have continued him in employment. Just because he had deposed for Dr. Maste 
a few months earlier is no ground to suppose that he was victimised- The question 
of victimisation comes in only where the action taken Is not at all justified on 
merits and the motives of the employment are oblique. This is not the case here. 
It Is, therefore, held that the employers were justified in refusing a letter for 
medical examination to Civil Surgeon and to superannuate Sallam Mallaya under 
Clause 20(4) of the Standing Orders and Sec- 28 of the Mines Act, that there was 
no malaflde on the part of employers and that Sallam Mallaya had accepted full 
and final payment out of his free will and in this ease cannot be permitted to 
rreagitate the matter through another Union. 


Decision: — 

The management of Sasti Colliery was justified in superannuating Sri Sallam 
Mallaya with effect from 9th August, 196? and he is not entitled to any relief. 
'.No order for costs. 

(Sd.) G- C- Agarwala, 

Presiding Officer- 
29-7-1968 

[No- 3 / 2 / 68 -LRII] 

S.O. 2867.—Inpursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
,of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
:in relation to the Bird’s Saunda 'D’ Colliery, Post Office Bhurkunda, District Dhan¬ 
bad and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 
'6th August, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-C UM- 
LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes 
.Act, 1947. 

Reference No» 71 of 1967 

■■'Parties : 

Employers In relation to the Bird’s Saunda ‘D’ Colliery, P. O. Bhurkunda, 
District Dhanbad- 


Vs- 

Their Workmen 

"'Present ; 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

For the Employers .—Shri D- Narsingh, Advocate. 

For the Workmen ■—Shri B. K. Lath, Advocate. 

:3tate: Bihar. Industry: Coal. 

Dhanbad, dated the 27th July 1968 
AWARD 

The Central Government has made this reference under its order No. 2/130/67- 
XRII, dated the 1st December, 1967 for adjudication of the Industrial dispute as 
iUientioned in the schedule which is as follows:—- 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Bird’s Saunda ‘D’ Colliery, P.O. Bhurkunda, 
District Hazaribagh, Bihar was justified, in stopping from work Shri 
Mahadeo, General. Mazdoor with effect from the 26th July, 1907? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled?” 



068T Z VHaVHS/8961 >Z ISflOflV ; VIGNI JO 3XIH2VO 3H1 Un)E 3 B 37 


2. The facts of the case are rather short, Shri Mahadeo, the concerned work 
man was working as prop mazdoor in the Birds Saunda D Colliery. The 
management’s case is that he worked as such from the year 19 d 8 but the 
case is that he worked sometimes as prop mazdoor and sometimes as pump 
mlstry from 1955. This difference between the two parties does not appear to 
be material for the purposes of the case. 


3. It is the admitted case of both parties that Shri Mahadeo met with an 
accident on 13th August 19G3 as a result of which his spine was fractured. He 
was medically treated in Naisarai Ramgarh Hospital and the Central Hospital or 
the Coal Mines Welfare Organisation at Jagjiwannagar, Dhanbad but was not 
cured in those hospitals. Hence he went, in due course, to the Sadar Hospital 
at Ranchi at bis own cost. He admittedly remained there until 25th May, 1966 
when he was discharged. 


4 . It seems that there was the question of assessment of the disablement of 
Mahadeo under Workmen’s Compensation Act. He addressed a letter (Ext. M. 2) 
dated 22nd November, 1966 to the Manager of the Colliery, requesting him that 
he should be sent to a Medical Board at Ranchi Sadar Hospital for assessment. 
Among other things, he has said in that letter that the Medical Board, Central 
Hospital, Dhanbad, had assessed his permanent disablement at 15 per cent loss 
in earning capacity in respect of the fracture of his 8th Dorsal Vertebrae but he 
was feeling pain on his 8th Dorsal spine and he said that his total disablement 
came from this that he had lost his earning capacity by 100 per sent. 

5- It appears that the Manager of the Colliery made enquiries by a letter 
dated 25th January, 1967 ancl Dr. R. Prasad of Ranchi Sadar Hospital gave the 
reply (Ext. W. 5) dated 28th January, 1967 in which he said as follows :— 


“Sri Mahadeo Prasad was admitted on 20th March, 1965 for pain iback of 2 
years duration- There was an old compression fracture of 8 D. 
Spine for which an operative treatment was done. He was dischar¬ 
ged on 25th April, 1966 with a spinal trace. He is fit for light duties. 
He still com plains of pain on straining his hack”. 


6 , Mahadeo wrote a letter (Ext. M. 1) dated 24th April, 1967 to the Manager 
of the colliery. The important parts of this letter are as follows :— 

‘‘More than a month ago I have applied your kind mercy to provide me 
with light job at surface as per your advice and instruction. “But 
regret much I have not been heard any consideration to my case as 
yet, for this reason I am suffering much In this hard days- 

"Will you therefore look into my miserable condition, by giving me any so 
that i could save from this starvation”. 


7. The workmen’s case as put by the Kranti-Karl Koyala Mazdoor Sangh is 
that, on discharge from Ranchi Sadar Hospital, Mahadeo was employed again in 
the colliery from 29th January, 1967 and was given work sometimes as Chaprasi 
and some-times as pump khalasi, He became a member of the Kranti-Kari 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh and, therefore, the management stopped him from work 
with effect from 26t.h July, 1867. 

8 . The management’s case, on the other hand, is that Mahadeo pleaded for 
roeicy and prayed for some employment in which his duty would be light. They 
have referred to the letter (Ext. M. 1) dated 24th April, 1967 in support of this 
allegation. Their case further is that he was given light work for some time but 
he was never given the work of a Chaprasi- He did some work for the company 
intermittently from the 27th April, upto the 25th July, 1967 but, as no light work 
was available after 25th July, 1967, Mahadeo was not given any such work from 
26th July, 1967 onwards. 

9. At the hearing, the parties have filed some documents which have been 
marked exhibits- The workman has examined only himself as W. W. 1- The 
management has examined two witnesses. Dr. Sontosh Kumar Ghose (M. W- 1) 
is the present Manager of the Colliery M- W. 2 is Shri J. Chakraborty, Time- 
Keeper in the colliery. 

10. Nothing turns upon the question -whether Mahadeo worked before his 
accident as prop mazdoor only or sometimes as prop mazdoor and sometimes as 
pump mlstry. It is, therefore, unnecessary to consider the evidence on this 
point. The Union has put in evidence several letters by which Krantikari 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh raised this dispute on behalf of Mahadeo. This appears 



3858 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADKA Z, 1890 LBart U — 


to be correct and I need not discuss this point further. The questions which re¬ 
quire consideration may be formulated as follows:— 

(i) Can Mahadeo be deemed to have continued in service and can his ser¬ 

vice conditions be held to have continued after his accident in 1963?. 

(ii) Did the old service conditions of Mahadeo revive when he joined the 

colliery again7 

Did he join the colliery on the 29th January, 1967 as alleged by the union 
or on the 27th April, 1967 as alleged by the managent? 

(lii) Was the act of the managent in not giving work to Mahadeo with 
effect from 26th July, 1967 unjustified? 

Point Nos. ( i ) and (ii): 

11. It is convenient to take up these questions together. It is obvious from 
Ext. M. 1 dated 24th April, 1967 that Mahadeo as not given any employment in 
the colliery before that date, He, therefore, begged the manager for mercy in 
order to save him from starvation. He did not then stand upon his rights, 
and claim to be entitled to his old employment on his old service conditions- The 
Manager could only have given him some employment after that date. It is, 
therefore, extremely probable that Mahadeo got employment in the colliery with 
eifect from 27th April, 1967 as alleged by the company. I hold accordingly. In 
fact, Mahadeo has examined himself and has himself said in his evidence that he 
rejoined the company in April, 1967 after getting over his accident. 

12- Mr- Lath, Advocate, appearing on behalf of the_ workman, has vehemently 
argued that, since the company never terminated the service of Mahadeo, he 
must be deemed to have continued in service all along even after his accident and 
his service conditions must also be deemed to have continued to be the same 
as before the accident, I am unable to accept this argument. Unless an em¬ 
ployee is capable of rendering service. It is difficult, to sec how he can be said 
to continue in service, Both sides have obligations in the case of service- The 
employee has the obligation to render service and the employer has the obligation 
to honour and fulfil the service conditions of the employee. In my opinion, it is 
not legally necessary for the employer to put a formal order of termination of 
service if this service comes to an end by reason of the fact that the employee 
hecome incapable of rendering service of the kind which he had agreed to render 
or was rendering- Reliance may be placed In this connection on the decision of 
the Supreme Court in the case of the Workmen of the Bangalore Woollen, Cotton 
and Silk Mills Co., Ltd-, Vs- Its management, reported In 1962 (I) L-L.J. 213. Al¬ 
though their Lordships were concerned in that case with the question of re¬ 
trenchment. Sarkar J. who delivered the judgment of the Court, observed ; 

“It seems to us that a service cannot be said to be terminated unless it was 
capable of being continued. If It is not capable of being continued... 
that is to say, In the same manner in which it bad been going on 
before, and it is, therefore, brought to an end, that is not a termina¬ 
tion of the service, It is the contract of service which is terminated 
and that contract requires certain physical fitness In the workmen. 
Where, therefore, a workman is discharged on the ground of ill- 
health, it is because he was unfit to discharge the service which he 
had undertaken to render and therefore it had really come to an 
end itself’’. 

13- In the present case, Mahadeo was undoubtedly discharged from the Rancht 
Sadar Hospital but the Doctor’s letter (Ext. W. 5) shows that he still complained 
of pain when he strained his back so that he was only fit for light work. This 
means that he was not fit to resume his old duties- He was, therefore, not en¬ 
titled to his old service conditions. Indeed, he has himself stated in (Ext. M. 2) 
that his disablement was total because the loss of his earning capacity was 100 
per cent. 

14. In his evidence. Mahadeo does not say that he got his old wages when 
the company employed him after his discharge from the Hospital. He says that 
he got the pay of the work which he did. The evidence of M, W- 1 and M. W- 2 
shows that Mahadeo did not work continuously, but he worked only intermittently 
during the period from the 27th April to 25th July. I do not see any good reason 
not to accept the evidence of these witnesses. 

15- It is, therefore, clear that he was not In regular service even during the 
above period. Obviously, the manager had taken pity on him and had given him 
whatever lighi employment was available at any particular time. In these circum¬ 
stances, it is impossible Lo accept Mr. Lath’s argument that Mahadeo’s service' 



Sbc. Sfli)i THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADkA 2, 1890 385 *) 


conditions were the same in 1967 as they were before his accident in 1963. In my 
opinion, Mahadeo was only entitled on being employed in 1967 to get the wages 
for whatever he did and not to get the company forced to give him his old work. 


16 I, therefore, hold that neither his service nor his service conditions con¬ 
tinued after his accident and consequent disablement to render service as before- 
His service conditions cannot also be held to have been revived on his being given 
some light work sometimes by the management in 1967 which he performed in¬ 
termittently. 


Point No. {Hi); 

17. It follows from the findings which I have recorded above that Mahadeo 
was not entitled as a matter of right to get employment from the company in 
1907. The management was, therefore justified in not giving work to or stop¬ 
ping Mahadeo from work with effect from 26th July, 1967. The case of victimisa¬ 
tion of Mahadeo on account of his having become a member of the Krantl-Kari 
Koyla Mazdoor Sangh is manifestly without substance because he admits In his 
evidence that he was a member of that union when the company gave him work 
in April, 1967. The second question put in the schedule does not arise for consi¬ 
deration. 


18. This is my award- It mfly be submitted to the Cental Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


(Sd.) Kamla Sahai, 
Presiding Officer. 
[No. 2/130/67-LRII.] 


S.O. 2868.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the em¬ 
ployers in relation to the Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited, Bhowra Colliery, 
P.O. Bhowra, District Dhanbad and their workmen, which was received iby the 
Central Government on the 5th August, 1968. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 

In the matter of a reference under section 10(i)(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 


Reference No. 53 of 1967 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited, Bhowra 
Colliery, P.O. BhowTa, District, Dhanbad. 


Vt. 


Their Workmen 


PRESENT; 

Shri Kamla Sahai, Presiding Officer. 


Appearances: 

For the Employer: Shri K. C. Nankeolyar, Dy. Chief Personnel Officer. 

For the Workmen: Shri Prasanta Burman, Secretary, Khan Mazdoor Congress- 



3860 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 [PaHt II— 


STATB; Bihar. INDUSTRY: Coal. 

Camp: Bombay, dated the 12th July, 1968 

AWARD 

By jrder No. 2/27/67-LR1I dated the I4th November, 1907, the Central 
Government made this reterence to tms Tribunal lor adjudication ol a dispute 
(•limri to in the seneduie wnien is as ioiiows :— 


Schedule 

"Whether the dismissal of Shri Rabi Mahato, Sand Conveyor by the 
management of Bhowra Colliery of Bhowrah Kankanee Collieries 
Limited with effect from the 25th December, 1966 was justified? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ?” 


2. a Corrigendum dated the 4th January, 1668, the year 1966 mentioned 
In th« icheduie has been altered to 1964. The question lor adjudication, there¬ 
fore, ia “whether the dismissal of Rabi Mahuto with effect from the 25th Decem¬ 
ber, 1964 was justified ? if not, to what relief is the workman entitled?" 


3. Shortly stated, the employers' case is that this is a case of individual and 
not industrial dispute because the concerned workman was not a member of 
the Khan Mazdoor Congress at any time before his dismissal from service or 
soon thereafter. It is unnecessary to consider this point at any length because 
it is obvious that Rabi Mahato became a member of the Khan Mazdoor Con¬ 
gress before the reference in as much as the union (the Congress) startd rais¬ 
ing a dispute in connection with the workman with effect from the 19th Novem¬ 
ber, 1965, when the General Secretary wrote a letter to the Asstt. Labour Com¬ 
missioner (Central), alleging that he had (been working continuously from the 
11th May, 1964 but had not been paid his wages. It has been laid down in the 
Case of Workmen of Jamadoba Colliery versus Jamadoba Colliery of M/s. Tata 
Iron and Steel Co. Ltd., Jamadoba, reported in 1967 (II) L.L.J. 663, that the 
crucial date is the date of the reference and that, if the workman concerned be¬ 
comes a member of the union before that date, the reference must be held to be 
valid because the dispute turns from an individual dispute into an industrial 
dispute. 

4. As to the merits of the case, the employers have stated that Rabi Mahato 
had been working as a sand conveyor mazdoor in Bhowra Colliery; that the 
sand conveyor mazdoor is an unskilled mazdoor in the lowest category i.e., 
category I and he is liable to be transferred to any other job of a mazdoor 
if that is done without causing him any prejudice as to his wages and service 
conditions; that Shri P. G. Ghosh, Engineer, (MW1) was Incharge of the work¬ 
shop, sand line including the conveyor, underground and surface installations 
of electrical and mechanical machines in the mine; that the men working in these 
places were under his control, that he transferred Rabi Mahato from the posi- 
don of conveyor mazdoor to that of a mazdoor in the moulding section of the 
colliery workshop but Rabi Mahato did not obey; that an official order of 
transfer was then made in writing on the 9th March, 1963 by the Manager; 
that Rabi Mahato disobeyed that order also and remained absent from duty; 
that a ehargesheet was then served upon him and, at the conclusion of the 
domestic enquiry, he was punished with suspension for eight days; that he re¬ 
mained absent even after the period of suspension was over and that, in all, he 
remained absent for about 14 months inspite of the fact that the Chief Agent 
sent him a letter (Ext. M 19) advising him to join his work and promising to 
show him leniency. The employers’ case further Is that Rabi Mahato sent a 
letter (Ext, M 20) dated the 9th July, 1983, expressing regret and promising 
to join the moulding section of the workshop but he did not keep his promise 
and did not join. Chargesheet No. 146/63/5 was drawn up against him but 
he was let off with a warning in the hope that he would (behave better. 

5 At his own request and at the request of the Conciliation Officer (C) and 
Labour Enforcement Officer, the management allowed him to join as conveyor 
mazdoor and not as a mazdoor in the moulding section of the workshop with 



Sec. 3( : 0] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 3861 


effect from the 11th May, 1964, On the 14th Mary i.e., on the fourth day, how¬ 
ever, Shri P. G. Ghosh, (MW 1) ordered him to do the work of belt oieaning 
but he refused to carry out that order. Although such orders are usually given 
verbally, he asked for a written order. Thereafter, he began to absent himself 
again without leave and without permission. 

6. It is also the case of the employers thart, on the 5th August, 1964, Rabi 
Mahato suddenly appeared at the place of his previous work and forcibly tried 
to take hold of the chute and the operator’s place from the man who was then 
doing the work and kept the chute stopped for about four hours. It was with 
great difficulty that the Welfare Officer and the Asstt. Engineer persuaded him 
to let go the chute. The management thereupon issued chargesheet No. 216/64/8 
(Ext- M21 and Wl) dated the 5th August, 1964 against him- His reply is 
Ext- M22 and W2, dated the 14th August, 1964. The reply was not considered 
satisfactory and thereupon Shri K. C. Nankeolyar (MW 3), then Welfare Officer, 
was asked to conduct the enquiry. He fixed 29th August, 1964 for enquiry but 
Rabi Mahato did not appear on that date and, art the suggestion of the Manager, 
MW 3 postponed the enquiry to 15th September, 1964- The same thing happened 
on that date and the enquiry was again postponed at the instance of the Mtmagei 
to 16th December, 1964- It Is alleged by the employers that Rabi Mahato was 
present at the time when Shri P. G. Ghosh, (MW 1) was being examined before 
the Enquiry Officer but he left at that time, saying that the Enquiring Officer could 
do whatever he liked. The Enquiring Officer then proceeded to conclude the 
enquiry ex-parte in the absence of Rabi Mahato. On 21st December, 1964, he 
submitted bis report (Ext- M 38), holding that the guilt of Rabi Mahato according 
to the chargesheet had been proved- On the basis of this report, the Manager 
recommended Rabi Mahato’s dismissal and the Agent approved it. It was accord¬ 
ingly conveyed to Rabi Mahato by a letter dated the 25th December, 1964 that he 
was being dismissed from the company’s service with effect from that date* The 
letter conveying the order of dismissal (Ext. M 30) was served upon Rabi Mahato 
by the peon (MW 4) through the Peon Book (Ext M 43). 


7- It is further said that Rabi Mahato started harassing the Chut* operator in 
July, 1966 and, therefore, tne Manager sent him a letter (Ext. M 39) dated the 
27th July, I960, saying that he had already been dismissed and hence he had no 
business to harass the workmen of the company and that, if he continued in 
that course, the management would be compelled to take Police help. A copy 
of the letter (Ext. M 30) was enclosed with this letter. The union’s case is that 
Rabi Mahato was first, informed about his dismissal when he received a copy of 
the dismissal letter (Ext. M 30) along with the letter (Ext. M 39). On this basis, 
the union raised a dispute about Rabi Mahato’s dismissal by a letter dated the 
18th August, 1966 addressed to the Asstt, Labour Commissioner (C). Dhanbad. 
It is alleged on behalf of the employers that the union's case that the workman 
was Informed about his dismissal for the first time by the copy of the dismissal 
letter which was sent along with Ext. M 39 is altogether false and has been made 
only with a view to cover up the great delay in raising the dispute. 

8. The union, Khan Mazdoor Congress, has filed a written statement on behalf 
of the workman. No reference has been made in it about what happened before 
11th June, 1964. It seems that the incidents of 1903 are not disputed. Indeed. 
Rabi Mahato has examined himself as WW 5. He has admitted that, when he 
did not comply with the order of transfer to the workshop, a chargesheet was 
issued to him and he received it. He says that there was no enquiry in connec¬ 
tion with that chargesheet but. as I will presently show, an enquiry was in fact 
held by Shri B. M. Lai, (MW 2) and he participated in that enquiry. He does 
not admit that he was suspended for eight days as a punishment at the conclusion 
of that enquiry but. he admits that he remained idle without doing any work for 
the company for about fourteen months and that the company did not give him 
anything as wages for that period. 

9. It has been alleged in the workman’s written statement that he has been 
frequently given orders of transfer on account of the management’s displeasure 
with him for his trade union activities. It, proceeds further to mention that the 
concerned workman was transferred to work as a sand line conveyor mazdoor 
from 11th May. 1904. that he joined his duty as such but only four days later i.e., 
on the 10th May, 1904, he was verbally ordered to do the different job of belt- 
cleaner, that he wanted a written order for the change in his job Ibiit. the manage¬ 
ment refused to give nlm any such order and stopped marking his attendance 



3862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part H— 


from that date and withheld his wages, that a chargesheet was issued to him on 
5th August, 1964 and he gave a reply on 14th August, 1964, that the management 
did not get any enquiry held into the chargesheet nor did it pass any order for 
about two years, that an industrial dispute was raised by the union on his behalf 
for non-payment of wages, that at the instance of the Asstt. Labour Commis¬ 
sioner (C), Dhanbad. II, he filed claim application No. FW 15 of 1966 on 21st 
June, 1966 before the Labour Court at Ranchi and that the management then sent 
him a letter dated 27th July, 1966 enclosing a copy of an alleged letter of dis¬ 
missal dated the 25th December, 1964 which he received on the 2nd August, 1966. 
It is also alleged that, prior to the 2nd August, 1966, Rabi Mahato had abso¬ 
lutely no knowledge about his alleged dismissal. It is said that the entire pro¬ 
ceedings of the enquiry are fabricated and so the letter of dismissal. On the 
basis of these allegations, it is prayed that the alleged dismissal of Rabi Mahato 
of the 25th December, 1964 be held to be unjustified. 

10. At the hearing, each party has filed a number of documents. Each party 
has also examined five witnesses. It is necessary for me to discuss the oral and 
documentary evidence and then to reach niy conclusions. The points which can 
be formulated for consideration are as follows :— 

(i) Did Rabi Mahato continue to work as an employee of the company after 

the 14th May, 1964 ? 

(ii) Does the evidence establish that Rabi Mahato has been harassed or 

victimised by the management ? 

fill) Was a domestic enquiry held by Shri K. C. Nandkeolyar fMW 3) in 
connection with chargesheet No. 210/64/0 dated the 5th August, 1964 
on the 16t.h December, 1964 and is it a fact that Rabi Mahato was 
present at the enquiry at the time of examination of Shri P. G. 
Ghosh (MW 1) and then went away of his own accord ? 

(iv) Is it true that Rabi Mahato did not know about his dismissal until the 
2nd August. 1966 when he received a copy of the dismissal letter 
dated the 25th December. 1964 along with the management’s letter 
dated the 27th July, 1906 ? 

(v) Is the order of dismissal passed against Rabi Mahato justified ? 

Points (i) and (ii) 

11. It will be convenient to take up these noints together. It will (be necessary 
to consider the events of 1963 before I consider these two points. 

12. The Company’s case is that Rabi Mahato was previously working as sand 
line conveyor mazdoor. In March, 1963, Shri P. G. Ghosh (MW 1) who was in 
control of that section as well as the workshop and other sections, ordered his 
transfer from the sand line to the moulding section of the workshop. Rabi 
Mahato refused to obey that order and thereupon an official order of transfer 
(Ext. M 6) dated the 9th March, 1963 was passed by the Manager. Rabi Mahato 
did not carry out that order also. Chargesheet No. 45/63/5 (Ext. M 9) was 
issued to him. He gave a reply Ext. (W 11) on the 8th April, 1963 to the letter, 
conveying the order of his transfer. He stated therein that he did not know 
anything about the work of moulding mazdoor and, therefore, he could work 
as conveyor mazdoor and not as a mazdoor in the moulding section, Any-way, 
domestic enquiry was ordered to be held by Shri B. M. I,al (MW 2). He ac¬ 
cordingly conducted the enquiry and recorded the statements of several persons 
including that of Raibi Mahato. He has proved that all the statements have 
been written by his clerk, Shri D. N. Singh, at his dictation. The three state¬ 
ments have been marked as Exts. M 23. M 24 and M 25. He also says that Rabi 
Mahato made over to him the petition (Ext. M 20), which according to him was 
written by Ram Mitra of the C.P.I. MW 2 has proved the handwriting 
in the petition (Ext. M- 20) to be in the pen of Ram Mitra. In this 
petition, Rabi Mahato expressed regret and also expressed his willingness to 
join work as conveyor mazdoor. There can be no doubt that this petition was 
written on bis behalf but be has denied in his evidence that it was a petition 
written on his behalf or filed Ibv him. In anv ease. he. did not net anon it. and 
he did not join his duty. Admittedly, be continued to be absent. from dutv for 
about fourteen months including the period of eight da vs from the 1st. to the 
R+h Mnv. 1963 when he was ordered to remain suspended as punishment, for 
disobedience of the orders of transfer. Hr wrote, letters (Exts. M 16 and M 17) 



Sfcc. j(ii)j IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3863 


dated the 2nd May, 1963 to the Chief Agent protesting against his transfer and 
praying for a decision in his case. Ext. M 13 is another letter dated the 10th 
May, 1033. It is rather amusing to iind that he has added at the end of his 
petition, “Failure to pass legal judgment to my case within ten days from date 
will oblige me to hie a public ease against the management”. The Chief Agent 
wrote a letter (Ext. M 19) dated the 25th May, 1963 in which he said that Rabi 
Mahato had not yet obeyed the transfer orders and it appeared that he had no 
intention to obey the same. He added that he wished to make it clear that the 
management had a right to transfer an employee from one work place to another 
without affecting his wages. Towards the end of the letter, the Chief Agent 
said, “even now I would advise you in your own interest to obey the same and 
to report for and join duties in the workshop in the moulding section within 
seven days of the receipt of the letter failing which it shall be considered that 
you were not interested in your employment and the management in that case 
shall be free to tennlnate your services- In the event of your now resuming your 
duty as advised, I shall still view the matter leniently and condone your absence 
to maintain continuity of your service. I trust you will abide by the advise 
given above”. This- letter also does not appear to have had the effect inducing 
Rabi Mahato to join his duty. 

13. It appears that, at the intervention of the Asstt. Labour Commissioner 
and Labour Enforcement Officer, the management withdrew the order of Rabi 
Mahato’s transfer and allowed him to join as conveyor mazdoor on the 11th May, 
1964. Thus, (1) the Chief Agent gave Rabi Mahato the assurance of leniency 
in 1963, and (2) the management further treated him sympathetically by allow¬ 
ing him to join as conveyor mazdoor on the 11th May, 1964 after he had remain¬ 
ed absent without leave and without permission for about fourteen months. 
There actions do not indicate any intention on the part of the management to 
harass or victimise Rabi Mahato. 

14. On the 14th May, 1964, the colliery Engineer, P. G. Ghosh, (MW1), order¬ 
ed Rabi Mahato to clean the conveyor belt, He says that some sand gets attached 
to the conveyor belt, when it Is being worked and then it becomes necessary to 
clean the belt. He further says that every conveyor mazdoor has to clean the 
belt at one time or the other. There seems to he no reason to disbelieve this 
witness. An attempt has been made on behalf of Rabi Mahato to show that his 
■work was only that of chute operator but that cannot be correct because the 
management has described him in its letters as conveyor mazdoor and he has 
described himself in his letters to the management as conveyor mazdoor It 
was. therefore, clearly his duty to clean th« belt and remove the sand. Since 
everv convevor mazdoor has do this work. Rabi Mahato was not at all justified 
in asking for a written order or in refusing to do the work. 

IB. Rabi Mahato’s case is that, though he did not obey the Engineer’s order 
and clean the belt, he continued to do his work as usual on and after the 10 th 

May, 1964. On the very face of it, this is rather improbable. On the 16th Mav 

itself, he wrote a letter (Ext. W 61 to the management in renly to a letter which 
the Manager had written to him on the 9th May, 1964. In this letter, he has satd 
that the Manager wanted him to work as sand conveyor mazdoor hut the Engineer 
wanted him to work a-s a belt cleaner but, on demand, he refused to give him a 

written order. He makes no mention in that letter that he was continuing to 

work. 

16. Ext, W7 is another letter dated 25th May 1964 written by Rabi Mahato 
to the Manager. In this letter, be has protested that he had worked for six 
days in the week ending the 16th May. IPB4 but his attendance had been booked 
only for four days. He has said that the Engineer has. for some reason, cut two 
days of his attendance and that, if he Is a gentleman, he should give him (Rabi 
Mahato) the reason for cutting the attendance for those two dsvs. It is signi¬ 
ficant that he does not sav in this letter that he continued to work even after 
the 16th May, 1964, though that is his case now. 

17. The Agent wrotp to him a letter (Ext. W11) on the 15th -Tune. 1904. In 
this letter, the Chief Agent ha' stator) that. the management, had shown him 
great leniency hut. it was reported that he had become more erogant and less 
interested in work. It was also reported that he refused to do hell cleaning 
although all the conveyor mazdoor* did belt cleaning whenever called upon to 





3864 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part li¬ 


do so and, further, the duties of an unskilled worker could not be reduced into 
writing. He has then added the following paragraphs:— 

“From the side of management, I assure you that we have no ill feeling 
against you and we will promptly look into any complaint of dis¬ 
crimination if any, shown towards you. However we expect that 
you will also work obediently and diligently at the same time, just 
as other mazdoors are working and will not give any occasion for 
the supervisory staff to report against you’’. 

He has then referred to the fact that Rabi Mahalo’s brother and father were 
also employees of the company and that, inspite of messages sent through them, 
he did not come to the Labour Welfare Officer’s office. 

18. In another letter (Ext. W15) which Rabi Mahato addressed to the Chief 
Agent on the 13th August, 1964, he stated for the first time that his attendance 
was not marked after the end of four days arfter 11th May 1964, that inspite of 
his regular attendance on duty another man had been deputed to do his work, 
that he had never allowed the other man to do his duty till then but that no 
step had yet been taken to remove the said man or to give him (Rabi Mahato) 
notice that his service was no longer required. He further added that, at an 
interview with the Chief Agent, the latter had threatened to kill him. The last 
but one paragraph is as follows:— 

“Please note that a months’ time is hereby given to you to make a final 
decision or else I shall be obliged to refer the matter to Court”, 

19. No other letter appears to have been written by Rabi Mahato to the 
management. There is, however, a letter sent by the General Secretary of the 
Khan Mazdoor Congress dated the 3rd September, 1964 (Ext. W16) addressed 
to the Conciliation Officer, demanding that Rabi Mahato !be paid all his wages 
due to him from 11th May 1984 uptodate. Another letter (Ext- W 17) was also 
sent bv the General Secretary of the union on the 5th September, 1904 to the 
Conciliation Officer (C), demanding that the workman be paid all his wages, 

20. The company’s case Is, as 1 have already said, that Rabi Mahato cersed to 
work from the 15th May, 1964 but be suddenly appeared at his old place of work 
on the 5th August, 1964, disturbed the man who was working In his place and 
stopped the chute from 3 to 7 P,M. A chargesheet was issued and a domestic 
enquiry was held. Ultimately, Rabi Mahato was dismissed with effect from the 
25th December. 1964 under a letter of the same date. I will deal with these 
allegations In detail later but 1 may state for the present that it Is rather significant 
that, although Rabi Mahato gave the Chief Agent only one month’s time from 
the 13th August, 1964 to decide his case, he did not write any letter to the manage¬ 
ment after the 13th August, and the union also does not appear to have written 
any letter to the Conciliation Officer after the 5th September. 1964- The first 
action which appears to have been taken by the workmen or the union after the 
alleged date of dismissal, i.e the 25th December. 1964 was that, on the 21st June, 
1966. about one and a half years latter, application No. P.W. 15 of 1966 was filed 
before the Labour Court, Ranchi, on behalf of Rabi Mahato for recovery of wages 
for the period 11th May, 1964 to 21st .Tune, 1966- It is rather significant that, 
although Rabi Mahato was In such a groat hurry for a decision as shown by his 
letter (Ext W-15) In August. 1964, he kept absolutely quite thereafter until about 
one and a half years after the alleged date of his dismissal- There is considerable 
fore, therefore, in the argument on behalf of the company that the fact of his 
silence for such a long time clearly indicates that the letter conveying the order 
of dismissal was served upon him as alleged bv the company. 

21. One document (Ext- W.18.) remains to be considered. It purports to be 
a statement made by some conveyor mazdoors to the effect that Rabi Mahato had 
been working all the time from Uth May, 1964 but the management had not been 
marking his attendance. This document has been formally proved by Shrl B- P. 
Tripatbi. (WW-3), the Organising Secretary of the Khan Maz.door Congress- He 
has stated in his chief that he took the signatures and thumb impressions of all 
concerned workmen on Ext. W-18 near the Bhowra sand conveyor line and that 
they put their signatures and thumb impressions after reading the entire document. 
On being cross examined, he has said that he raised the industrial di"pute on 
behalf of Rabi Mahato In December. 1966 because he was neither suspended nor 
dismissed in fact before-hand, that he was always working and that it was not 
true to say that he was dismissed in 1964. I consider it to be highly improbable 
for a workman to have worked all the time from the 15th May, 1964 to the 21st 



Sec, i(ii)] THB GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3865 


June, 1966 in spite of the fact that he did not get any wages. It was necessary for 
him to maintain himself and his family and it is too much to expect that he would 
continue to work for almost two years without payment and without having the 
means of maintaining himself and his family. I, therefore, do not believe the 
statement of this witness which I have lust mentioned- He goes further and says 
that Rabl Mahato was stopped from work only on the 2nd August, 1966 when 
the Police arrested him. This would mean that he continued to work in the 
service of the company even after filing his application in the Ranchi .Labour 
Court on the 21st June, 1966. Unless one is extremely credulous, one cannot accept 
such a story. On being cross examined about the statement (Ext. W-18 which 
has Ibeen wrongly typed in the deposition as W. 15) this witness says that he 
got the petition written. He first said that he could not give out its contents 
without reading It- When the document was made over to him, he said that he 
did not know English very well and that he could not read it. It is, therefore, 
clear that the suggestion made to him that he has falsely said that he got teh 
petition written is correct. The petition or statement is in English and, as he 
does not know English, he could not have got it written. If he did not get it 
written, there is no evidence as to who wrote the statement (Ex, W. 18) or who 
dictated it. Out of the signatures on this petition, only one namely Lakhan Ram 
Manjht has been examined as WW-4. He has also made the Incredible statement 
that Rabi Mahato continued to operate the chute from the llth May, 1964 to the 
2nd August, 1966- I am not prepared to believe him as no one could work for 
such a long time without payment of wages and even after filing a petition for 
recovery of his wages. 

22. Rabi Mahato (WW.5) has made a similar statement but he is a highly 
interested witness and I am not prepared to believe the statement because cf its 
improbability- 

23- Dhurab Yoti Das (MW. 5) has produced the attendance register for the 
year 1964. He has stated and bis statement is supported by the relevant 
entries in the register (Ext- M44) that Rabi Mahato worked in the sand 
line section for only four days in 1964 i-e. from the llth to the 14th May, 1964. 
There is no reason at all to disbelieve him. He has hardly been cross-examined. 
The only question which has been put to him is whether he maintains the atten¬ 
dance register and e has said that he does. 

24- Having considered all the facts and circumstances of the case, I hold that 
Rabi Mahato did not continue to work for the company after he refused to obey 
the order of Shri Ghosh (MW.l) to clean the conveyor belt and the union’s case 
in this respect is untrue. I further find that the management showed Rabi Mahato 
great consideration and undoubtedly treated him leniently from time to time- 
His father and brother are still In the service of the company and there Is absolutely 
no reason why the management should select only Rabi Mahato for harassment 
and victimisation- Transfer orders have not issued to him frequently- He did 
not obey the first transfer order passed in 1963 and he did not carry it out. The 
management still took him back on the intervention of the Asstt. Labour Commis¬ 
sioner and Labour Enforcement Officer and put him on his old Job as conveyor 
mazdoor, He says that he was working only as chute operator and it was not 
his business to clean the conveyor belt. MW-1 has proved that the conveyor 
mazdoor has to clean the belt also MW- 2 has stated—and I do not see why I 
should disbelieve him—that the jobs of sand conveyor mazdoor, belt cleaner and 
moulding mazdoor are all those of unskilled worker and they are all paid wages 
of category I. He further says that these jobs are inter-chargeable as they are to 
be done under the control of one engineer- 

Point (iii) 

25. As I have already said, the company's case is that the colliery Engineer 
(MW 1) ordered RAbi. Mahato to clean the conveyor belt on the 14th May, 1964 
but he refused to do that work and wanted the engineer to gave him a written 
order to that effect. As MW 1 has said, orders of this kind are usually given 
verbally. It also »l«uids to reason that, when Rabi Mahato was the conveyor 
mazdoor, the cleannui of the conveyor belt must have been a part of his duty in 
that capacity. I do see why MW 1 would have given him an order in writing- 
The company’s case, however, is that Rabi Mahato not only disobeyed the order 
but remained absent from the 15th May This receives considerable support from 
Rabi Mahato’s letter (Ext- W 7) dated the 25th May, 1964 in which he claims to 
have worked only for six days ie. upto the 16th May, 1964, He does not mention 
in the letter that he continued to work even after the 16th. 

26. The company’s case further is that Rabi Mahato appeared suddenly at the 
place where he used to work previously- pushed aside Kailu Gope, (WW 1) and 



3866 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 14, 1968/BHADRA 1, 1890 [Bart li¬ 


st opped the chute lor several hours i-c. from 3 to 7 p.m. It is further alleged 
that, at about 7 p.m-, the Welfare Officer and the Asstt- Engineer persuaded Rabi 
Mahato to leave the place- Kailu Gope says that he is a tyndal mazdoor from 
about ten years and that it is not his business to operate the chute or to clean the 
belt because he is a tyndal. He also says that no one ever asked him to work 
as a chute operator in Rabi Mahato’s place and that Rabi Mahato never pushed 
him out at any time when he was working as a chute operater- It is impossible 
to accept that no officer of the company ever asked Kailu Gope to work as a chute 
operator in place of Rabi and, in spite of this fact, the company has alleged that 
he was working as a chute operator in place of Rabi Mahato- 

27, The company issued charge-sheet No. 216/64/S (Ext. M 21 and W 1) on 
the 6th August, 1964 against Rabi Mahato- Shrl K- C- Nandkeolyar, then Welfare 
Officer, was appointed to hold the enquiry by letter dated the 26th August, 1964 (Ext. 
M 26) when the workman’s reply (Ext. M 22 and W 2) dated the 14th August, 
1964 was found to be unsatisfactory. The enquiry was first fixed for 29th August, 
1964 but Rabi Mahato did not turn up on that date- Shri Nandkeolyar submitted 
a note (Ext- M 32) in this connection tp the Manager who passed an order on that 
note to the effect that one more chance should be given to Rabi Mahato- The 
enquiry was, therefore, postponed and fixed for the 15th September, 1964. Ext. 
M 27 is the letter issued to Rabi Mahato to that effect. On that date also, Rabi 
Mahato did not attend the enquiry. Shri Nandkeolyar again wrote a note (Ext- 
M 33) to the Manager. The Manager ordered that another chance should be given 
to him- The enquiry was then fixed for the 16th December, 1964- Rabi Mahato 
was informed accordingly and he attended the enquiry on that date- He, however, 
remained present only while the statement of Shri P. G. Ghosh, Engineer, (Ext- 
M 8) was recorded- Rabi Mahato Left the place of enquiry abruptly when the 
statement was still in the course of being recorded. While he was leaving, Shri 
Nandkeolyar* told him that, if he left the place, the enquiry would be conducted 
in his absence and that it would be at his risk that he would leave the place- 
Rabi Mahato replied in Hindi “Apko jhutmut jo kuchvi karna hai kar de yadi ham 
ja rahe hai”. Shri Nandkeolyar recorded the statement in presence of three 
witnesses namely Jogendra Dubey, Office Peon, Budhu Mia, union representative 
and one Jadu Mahato and got their signatures taken after their statements as 
recorded were read over to them. After making the statement just mentioned, 
Rabi Mahato left the place of enquiry. Shri Nandkeolyar proceeded with the 
enquiry and got the statements of V. R. Prahar, Asstt. Engineer, sand line, 
B- M- Lai, Welfare Officer, Dhurab Yoti Das, Register Clerk, Kailu Gope, Conveyor 
mazdoor and Ramu Modak, sand line electric helper recorded by Shri D. N. Singh, 
his clerk, at his dictation. He himself signed all the statements which were 
recorded. The enquiry was then closed with the remark “the enquiry was closed 
as there is none to appear”- The statement of the witnesses Just referred to are 
respectively, Exts. M 34, M 29, M 36 and M 36- It may be mentioned that Kailu 
fully supported the company's case in his statement (Ext M 36). While cross- 
examining Kailu Gope, Shri Nandkeolyar put to him that he himself got his 
statement recorded and took his thumb Impression on it but he has denied this 
suggestion. 

28- All the aforesaid documents have been filed and have been marked as 

Exts. Shri Nandkeolyar has fully supported the company’s case that he held the 
enquiry and got the statement of the witnesses recorded. His evidence is that 
Rabi Mahato attended the enquiry and heard part of the statement of Shri P. G- 

Ghosh (MW 1) but went away after saying what I have already mentioned. It 

is difficult to accept the union’s suggestion that all the enquiry papers including 
the enquiry officer’s report (Ext- M 38) which is a very elaborate one were com¬ 
pletely fabricated. There seems to be no reason for fabrication of these docu¬ 
ments. The company had nothing to lose by giving a chance to Rabi Mahato to 

attend the enquiry and to defend himself. I consider it highly improbable for 
the company to have taken the risk of fabricating the documents, 

29- Shri Nandkeolyar held in his report (Ext, M 38) that Rabi Mahato was 
guilty of the charges framed against him- On the basis of this report, Rabi 
Mahato was dismissed with the approval of the Agent- This was conveyed to him 
by the Manager by the letter (Ext. M 30) dated the 25th December, 1964. It was 
said that the dismissal would have immediate effect- This letter was sent for 
service with a peon book. Jogendra Dubey, MW 4 is the Welfare Officer’s peon 
in Bhowra Colliery. He says that he was present in the office at the time when the 
enquiry relating to Rabi Mahato was held and he proves his signature Ext. M 8(A) 
as well as the thumb impression Ext. M 8(b). of Rabi Mahato at the bottom of the 
remark noted by Shri Nandkeolyar about the departure of Rabi Mahato after 




Sec. 3(ii:J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BUADRA 2, 1890 3867 


telling him that, he could do what he liked- He has further proved the thumb 
impression (Ext- M 43) of Kabi Mahato in the peon book in token ot having 
received the letter, conveying to him the order o.t his dismissal. On being cross- 
examined, he has stated that all iho thumb impressions of Rabi Mahato wnich he 
has proved were made in his presence. There 13 nothing in his cross-examination 
to show that he is interested against Rath Mahato. T do not seen why he should 
give false evidence against airs TRabi). 1 reel that his evidence is perfectly reli¬ 
able. Shri lb M, Lai (MTV 2; has proved the entry (Ext. W 12) in the Peon Book 
relating to the despatch and receipt oi the letter of dismissal (Ext. M 30). He 
has admitted that the thumb impression of Rabi Mahato was not taken in lira 

presence bull as I have just said, MV/ 4 has proved that the thumb impression 

(Ext- M 43) was taken in his presence. Shri K- C. Nandkeolyar has proved that 
the letter (Ext. M 39) dated the 27th July. 1966 was sent, to Rabi Mahato by the 
Manager, Shri R. K. Yashraj, because it was reported at about that time that 
Rabi Mahato was obstructing workers. In this letter, the Manager has written 
that, since Rabi Mahato had already been dismissed, it would be necessary for 
the management to take police help in order to stop obstruction of workers by 
l, lrn if he persisted In that course- 

30- On the other hand, Kaiiu Gope (Wll 1), has made one statemcn 1 before 
the enquiring officer and has made quite a different statement before me- Before 
the enquiring officer, he stated that. Rabi Mahato did noi a Tend to his duty in 
the colliery from the 15th May, 1964. He has said something quite contrary before 
the Tribunal- For this reason and for other reasons which I have given above, I 

disbelieve his evidence- Shri Praianta Burman, (WW 2) has only proved the 

membership register of Khan Wazdoor Congress and its extract (Ext.. W 14) He 
has been examined only to prove that Rabi Mahato was a member of Khan 
Mazdoor Congress. It is unnecessary to consider this evidence because there is 
no doubt that Rabi Mahato was a member of the union, on the date of the reference 
Ae such, this is undoubtedly a case of industrial dispute and not an Individual 
dispute- 


31. I have already dealt with the evidence o£ Shri B. P, Tripathi (WW 3) and 

1 have found myself unable in accept his evidence. T have also dealt with the 
evidence of Lakhan Ram Man jin (WW 4) and have not accepted hit, evidence. RabL 
Mahato 1:1 the last witness for himself and he Is an interested witness- It is difficult 
to accept his evidence without reliable corroboration. I may, however, point out 
that he says that one reason why the operation of tho sand line may be slopped is 
that the bunker becomes full with sand- That being so, the conveyor mazdoor 
must clean the conveyor belt and sand for. otherwise, the entire operation may stop- 

32- As i have said, the rcry fact that Rabi Mahato who wrote pressing letters 
to the management upto 13th August 1964 did not write any other letter for about 
one and a half years indicates that he was duly informed about his dismissal on 
the 26th December, 1964. 

33. On a careful consideration of the facts and circumstances of the case, I 
hold that Shri Nandkeolyar held the enquiry in accordance with principles of natural 
justice, that Rabi Mahato attended the enquiry while Shri P. G. Ghosh was being 
examined and that thereafter he left the place of enquiry abruptly, tolling the 
enquiring officer that he could do what he liked 

Point (lt>) 

34. In view of the findings which I have recorded above, Rabi Mahato knew of 
his dismissal on the 25th Decemlber, 1964. It is not possible, therefore to accept 
his case that he first knew of hia dismissal when he received a copy of the dismissal 
letter (Ext- M 30) along with the letter dated the 27th July. 1966 (Ext. M 39V I 
hold accordingly. 


Point ( v) 

35. On the basis of tho discussions and findings recorded above, 1 hold that the 
dismissal of Rabi Mahato is justified- The second question put in tho schedule does 
not, therefore arise. 


36- This is my award. U may be submitted to the Central Government under 
section 13 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


(Sd-) Kamla Sakai. 

Presiding Officer 


[No. 2/27/68-LR.TI.l 




3868 THE GAZETTE UE INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1 908/BtiADKA i, 1SW [PART II— 


ORDERS 

Nuiv Delhi , the 12 th August 1968 

S.O. 2869 .—Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the 
New Ghusick Colliery of Messrs West Ghusick Coal Company Limited, Post Office Kalipahari, 
District Burdwan and their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), 
Bengal Hotel, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan. 

And whereas the said employers and the workmen have by a written agreement, in pur¬ 
suance of the provisions of 3 ub-section ( 1 ) of section 10 A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947 ), agreed to refer ihe said dispute to rhe arbitration of the person specified therein, and a 
copy of the said arbi'.ration agreement has been forwarded to the Central Government ; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section ( 3 ) of section 10 A of th® 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the said 
arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 1 st August, 1968 . 

Agreement 

Under Section 10 A of the Industrial Disputes Act, T 947 , 

Between 

Name of the parties : 

Representing employers .... Shri M. P. Roy, 

Group Personnel Officer, 

M/s. West Ghusick Coal Co. Ltd',,. 

P.O. Kalipahari, 

Distt. Burdwan. 

Representing workmen .... Shri S. K. Rudrn, 

General Secretary, 

Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), 

Bengal Hotel, P.O. Asansol, 

Distt. Burdwan. 

It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to Lite arbi¬ 
tration of Shri K. Sharan, Regional Labour Commissioner (C), Asansol. 

(0 Specific matters, in dispute. 

"Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for the Coal Mining In¬ 
dustry as aceeptcd by the Government of India in their resolution dated 21 - 7-1967 and also the 
nature of duties perforined by the workmen concerned, whether the management of New Ghusick 
Colliery (P.O. Kalipahari, Distt. Burdwan) of M/s. West Ghusick Coal Co. Ltd, has correctly and 
properly designated the workmen named below and has correctly and properly placed them in the 
grade/category and fixed their basic pay/wages in the scale of basic pay/wages as shown against 
their respective names : 


SI. Name Existing Existing Existing scale of basic 

No. designation Grade/ pay/wages 

Category 


I. 

Shri 

Rama Shankar Tiwary 

2 , 

33 

Mahesh Yadav 

3- 

3} 

Shyamapadn Dawn 

4- 

33 

Kashi Nath Sonar 

5- 

33 

Jagdish Prasad 

6 . 


Jagdish Dhari 

7. 

33 

Makhlu Chaniar 

8 . 

33 

Abodh Naravan Jha 

9- 

33 

Maliakont Jha 

10 . 

33 

Dcbu Mitra 

11 . 

33 

Sukhdeo Ahir 

12 . 

33 

Ranjendra Choubey 


Lamp Issuer Gr. Ill 
Fitter Helper Cat. II 
Survey Boy Cat. I 
Timber Mazdoor Cat. II 
Timber Mazdoor Cat. II 
Timber Alazdoor Cat. II 
Gate Mazdoor Cat. I 
General Mazdoor Cat. I 
Pit Head Bath 
Guard Gr. H 

Bailing Mazdoor Cat, I 
Timber Mazdoor Cat, I 
Timber Mazdoor Cat. II 


Rs. 180 —J— 230 — 7—265 
Ra. 5 - 35 — 0-12 — Rs. 6’55 
Rs. 5 - 00 —o-io—Rs. 6 -oo 
Rs. 5 - 35 — 0 - 12 —-Rs. 6-55 
Rs. 5 - 35 — 0 - 12 —Rs. 6-55 
Rs. 5 . 35 -— 0 - 12 — Rs. 6-55 
Rs. 5 *oo—o- 10 —Rs. 6 -oo 
Rs. 5 - 00 —o- 10 —Rs. 6 -oo 

Rs. 140—3 — 170 — 4 — 178 
Rs. 5 - 00 —o- 10 —Rs. 6-00 
Re, j. 00 — 0 , 10 —Rs. 6 'O 0 
Rs. 5 - 35 — 0 - 12 —Rs. 6-55 





<*BC. 3(H)] 1 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 24, 1968/BHADRA 2, 1890 3869 


2 . If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled and from which date ?” 


(»■«) Details of the parties to the dispute lnclud- Employers in relation to New Ghusick 
inf the name and address of the establishment Colliery, (P.O. Kalipahari, Distt. Burdwan 
or undertaking. of M/s. West Ghusick Coal Co. Ltd. and 

their workmen. 


(Hi) Name of the Union, if any , representing the 
workmen in question. 

(it 1 ) Total number of workmen emplo) ed in the 
undertaking affected. 

(v) Estimated number of workmen affected 
or likely to be affected by the dispute. 

We further agree that the decisions of the art 


Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), Bengal 
Hotek P.O. Asansol, Distt. Burdwan. 

470 

12 (twelve). 

ator shall be binding on us. 


The arbitrator shall make his award within 0 period of six months or within such further 
time as is entered by mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the award is not mad* 
within the period aforementioned, the reference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled 
and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration. 


Witness : 


( 1 ) Sd/- M. N. Singh, 

29 - 7 - 1968 . 

( 2 ) Sd/- N. K, Ghosb, 

29 - 7 - 1968 . 


Signature of the parties: 

Representing employers : 

Sd/- M, P. Roy, 

29 - 7 - 1968 . 

Representing workmen 

Sd/- S. K. Ruora, 
29 - 7 - 1968 . 


(No. 6 / 51 / 68 -LRII.J 


New Delhi, the 13th August 1968 

S.O. 2870.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of BhaladUi 
Sand Line of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited, P.O. Dishergarh, District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule, 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred Iby clause (d) of sub¬ 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 

Schedulb 

Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for tfed 
Coal Mining Industry, as accepted by the Central Government under its 
Resolution No. WB.16(5)/66, dated the 21st July, 1967, whether the demand of 
3hri Budhadeb Chattaraj, Canteen Incharge of Bhaladih Sand Line of - M/tk 
Equitable Coal Company Limited, for his placement in the clerical Grade II and 
fixation of his pay in the scale of Rs, 205-7-275-10-825 is justified? If so, to 
what relief is the workman entitled and from which date ? 

[No. 6/50/68-LR-II.] 

S.O. 2871.—Whereas by the order of the Government of India in the Minis¬ 
try of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), No. 2/149/68-LRII-I, dated the 13th August 1P68, an industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management of East Basurta 
Colliery of Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited, Port Office 



3670 THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: AUG. 24, 1968/BHA. 2, 1890 [Baat H—Sec. 3(ii>i 


Kusunda, District Dhanbad and their workmen has been referred to the Indus¬ 
trial Tribunal No, 3, Dhanbad, for adjudication and it is necessary to prohibit 
the continuance of the strike in existence in the East Basuria Colliery in con¬ 
nection with the said dispute; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-setion (.3.) 
ttl section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1347), the Central 

Government hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence, in con¬ 
nection with the said dispute in the said colliery. 

[No. 2/149/68-LRII-IL] 

8,0. 2872.—Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the East Basuria Colliery 
of Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited, Post Office Kusunda, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central. Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of 
sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial. Tribunal No. 3, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the management of East Basuria Colliery of Messrs East 
Basuria 1 Colliery Company Private limited, Post Office Kusunda, 
District Dhanbad was justified in retrenching Sarvashri Ramashis 
Singh and Tapeswnr Pandey, Senior Over-men, with effect from the 
15th July. 1968 ? If not, to what relief are these workmen entitled? 

[No. 2/149/68-LRIM.] 
BALWANT SINGH, Under Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 
Customs 

New Delhi, the 24 th August 1988 

S.O 2873.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs 
Act* 1962 (52 of 1962), the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declare 
HDurgapur In the State’ of West Bengal to be a warehousing station. 

[No. 120/68-C.ustoms/F. No. 3/3 5/68-Cus. VII.] 

M. S. SUBRAM AN YAM, Under Secy. 


fhottild by tot general manager, government or 

JIXW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY TOT MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI. 1988 






