रजिस्ट्री . 10 222 


REGISTERED No. D . 222 


. 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


से0 34 ] 
No. 34 ) 


नई दिल्ली, शनिवार, प्रगस्त 24, 1988 / भाद्र 2, 1890 
NEW DELAT, SATURDAY, AUGUST 24 , 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या वी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part In order that it may be fled 

as a separate compilation. 


भाग .IJ --- खा : - उपखण्ड ( ii ) 

PART II - Section 3- - Sub -section (ii) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़ कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक प्रावेश और अधिसूचनाएं । 
Statụtory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 26th July 1968 
S . O . 2821. - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 , 
the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 22nd / 23rd April , 
1968 by the High Court of Gujarat at Ahmedabad in Election Petition No. 22 of 1967 . 
. . IN THE HIGH COURT OF GUJARAT AT AHMEDABAD 

ELECTION PETITION No . 22 OF 1967 
22 / 23rd April 1968 

District: Banaskantha . 
Popatlal, son of Manilal Joshi, aged about 37 years, by caste Brahmin , Occupation Social 
Work, residing at Pathhar Sadak, Palanpur , District Banaskantha , North Gujarat 
Petitioner.. 

Versus 
1 . Manubhai , son of Nandlal Amersey , aged about 38 years, by caste Vaishya , 
· Occupation business, residing at Green - Fields, 134 , Backbay Reclamation , 

Bombay 1, 
2 . G . G . Mehta, alias Gordhandas , son of Girdharlal Mehta , aged about 54 years, by 

caste Vaishya , occupation Bar-at-Law and Social work , residing at House No . 1 , 
1652 , Radhanpuri Building, Kirti Stambh , Palanpur , Dist. Banaskantha , North 
Gujarat . 

3795 ) 


.. 


. - . 


. - . - - 


- - -- - - 


= 


3796 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 ( Part II — 

- = = - - -- -- -- -- - 
3 . Jivrajbhai, son of Kesarbhai Desai, aged about 40 years, by caste Rabari, occupa 

tion business , residing at C / o Shri Dhanabhai Hirabhai Khatana , P . O . Sihori, 

Taluka Kankrej, Dist . Banaskantha, North Gujarat and 
4 . Raisinhji, son of Kosarisinhji Jadeja , aged about 47 years , by caste Kshatriya , 

occupation Jagirdar, residing at Village Soneth , Taluka Wav , Dişt, Banaskantha , 

North Gujarat - Respondents. 
Mr. C . T . Daru with M / s . K . G . Vakharia and H . M . Mehta , Advocates for the 
Petitioner. 

M /s. I. M . Nanavaty and P , M . Ravel— for respondent No. 1. 
Mr. N . J. Mehta - -for respondent No. 2. 
Respondent No. 3 , served , absent. 

Mr. G . C . Patel for respondent No. 4 , declared that he had no instructions from 
Respondent No. 4 , 

CORAM : N . K . VAKIL J. 

(22 - 23rd April 1968 ) 
ORAL JUDGMENT 
This election petition is filed to challenge the election of Manubhai N . Amersey, the first 
respondent, who contested the election as a candidate for the Swatantra Party from the 
parlamentary constituency of Banaskantha Palanpur to the Lok Sabha in the goneral elec 
tions held on the 18th of February 1967 . The petitioner is an elector in the said consti 
tuency and was an active worker and supporter of the second respondent Shri G . G . Mohta 
who contested the election as a candidate of tho Congress party , and lost the election by 
a difference of 4 , 407 votos . The third respondent was an independent candidate who 
secured only 14 , 265 votes as against 1,05,621 by the second respondent and 1 , 10 ,028 by 
the first respondent. The official symbol of the first respondent was the Star and that of 
the second respondent two bullocks with yoke on . The third respondent though duly served 
has not appeared . The fourth respondent was the official candidate of the Swatantra Party 
for the Radhanpur constituency for the Gujarat State Assembly . He has been joined in 
tho petition on the ground that corrupt practices were committed by him and / or his elec 
tion agent, though no relief has been asked against him . He has appeared through his 
advocate and filed his written statement denying the allegations made against him . Apart 
from that however , he has taken no part in the proceeding. 

The petition as originally filled was based on various grounds but the petitionor at onc 
or the other stage gave up those grounds as I shall point out hereafter and has shall ultimately 
contested the petition only on the ground of corrupt practice of undue influence of induc 
ing or attempting to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of 
divino displeasure or spiritual censure falling in section 123 (2 ), proviso (a ) ( i ) of the 
Representation of Peoples Act , 1951 which shall be referred to bercafter as the Act . I 
shall therefore refer to the other grounds just to indicate that they were and state the facts 
regarding the ground ultimately relied upon by the petitioner in some details and the stand 
of the first respondent in respect thereto . 

The petition was based on the following grounds: 

( 1) The first respondent or his election agent and / or other persons with the consent of 
the first respondent or his election agent, committed (i) the corrupt practice of incurring or 
authorizing expenditure in connection with the election of the first respondent for in axcess 
of the maximum amount prescribed , details and particulars whercof are given in sub - paras 
( A ) to (H ) of para 11 . By an order granting an amendment dated 25th September 1967, 
further particulars were added ; ( ) corrupt practice of bribery as alleged in para 12 of the 
petition ; ( lii) corrupt practice of undue influence by directly or indirectly interferring or 
attempting to interfere with the free exercise of electoral rights of several votery by giving 
threats as detalled lo para 13 of the petition . By order dated 25th September 1967 per 
mitting amendments further particulars were added ; (iv ) Corrupt practice of appealing to 
the voters in the name of the cow , which is a religious symbol as detailed in para 15 of the 
petition; (v ) corrupt practice of hiring of or procuriny or using horse carriagos and mochini 
cally propelled vehicles for freely carrying voters to the polling stations as alleged in para 
16 of the petition . Further particulars were added by the amendment granted by the 
Order of the Court dated 25th September 1967; (vi) corrupt practicc of obtaining 
assistance of - Government servants as alleged in para 17 of the petition . 

(2 ) The result of the election was materially affected in so far as it concerned the re 
turned candidato by improper reception , refusal or rejection of votes or the reception of 
void votes as 

in para 19 of tho petition . 


SEC . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3797 


The second respondent supported the petition by filing a written statement. But the 
first respondent denied all the allegations and the grounds roferred to hercioabove. I do 
.not find it necessary to mention the details thereof as all these grounds were given up at 
various stages as mentioned hereafter . 

As regards the ground which the pctitioner adhere to till the end for tho purposes of 
supporting the petition , the averments in the petition as it originally stood were that the 
first respondent, his agents and other persons with the consent of respondent No. 1 and / or 
his clection agent have directly or indirectly interfered or attempted to interfere with the 
free oxercise of the electoral rights in as much as they have induced the voters or attempted 
to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of divino displeasure or 
spiritual censure and as some of the instances he alleged as under : 


(a ) One Himatlal Mulani who was the elcction agent of respondent No. 4 who with the 
consent of respondent No. 1 also carried on propaganda for him . Mulani in the last two 
weeks of January 1967 put up a Board in front of the election oflico at Radhanpur show 
ing a picture of the cow being slaughtered by the neck with a sword . There are further 
allegations in respect of this instance but it is not necessary to mention them as this allega 
tion was ultimately given up. 

(b ) One Shambhu Maharaj, a well -known saint and Kirtankar and a social worker of 
Gujarat, held meetings for supporting tho candidature of the first respondent at the instance 
of and with the consent of the first respondent at places and dates mentioned in sub -para 
(b ) para 14 , of the petition . The first respondent and / or his said election agent had 


Cow -slaughter considered as a sin committed by congressmen including congress candidatos 
which was adopted by the said Shambhu Maharaj. At each of the aforosaid moetings 
Shambhu Maharaj appealed to the religious feelings of the people in tho audience and 
oxhorted them not to yote for the Congress party candidates including the second respon 
dent and pointed out that if they votes for the Congress party candidates, the voters would 
commit the sin of cow slaughter and urged them in the name of mother cow to take vow 
not to yote for the Congress party candidates. The petitioner averred that the said appeal, 
exliortation and urging as aforesaid of Shambhu Maharaj amounted to inducing or attempt 
ing to induce the electors to believe that the electors would , by voting for any congress 


displeasure or spiritual censure . By an amendment made under the orders of the Court 
dated 25th September 1967, allegations in respect of one Bava Mohananand Maharaj and. 
Bava Laxmadpuri as instances of the said corrupt practice were added . As they have also 
been subsequently dropped , I do not find it necessary to give any details thereof. Further 
instances were given in sub-paraş (c ), (d ) and (e ) of para 14 but they aro also not pressed 
and therefore I am not mentioning the details thereof. 

The most material part of the pleading however was added as particulars or instances of 
the corrupt practice of undue influence in para 14 by the amendment allowed by order 
dated 7th March 1968. By the said amendment, soveral passages from the speeches made 
by Shambhu Maharaj at various places have been incorporated in the petition . Verbatim 
notes of these specches were taken by the police constable deputed for the purpose to take 
shorthand notes and which reports are produced in evidence . At this stage I do not refor 
to all the details thereof as I shall have to deal with them in details when I discuss the 
respectivo submissions of the parties. It may be observed hero that the first amendment 
of the petition was allowed by Divan J. and the second was permitted by myself . In the 
respective orders passed by us for reasons stated therein , it is made very clear that tho 
petitioner shall be entitled to lead cvidence and rely upon the grounds of corrupt practice 
of undue influonce falling within the purview of section 123 (2 ) proviso (a )(ii) of the Act and 
not the one contemplated by section 123 (2 ) in its first part and exclusive of tho proviso . 

The petitioner alleged in para 18 of the petition , the corrupt practice on the ground of 
use of or appeal to the religious symbol of the cow . As an instance of the said corrupt 
practico , reliance is placed in the said para on an alleged pamphlet published by one V . P . 
Gupta , Secretary of the Saryodaya Gau Rakshak Samiti. It may however be mentioned 
that the petitioner has made no attempt to establish this instance but in para 18 , the 
pctitioner has further alleged that those who were carrying on the agitation of prevention 
of cow -slaughter in the month of December 1966 and January 1967, propagated that the 
Congress party and the persons belonging to the said party including its candidates did not 
believe in the prevention of cow -slaughter and that they were encouraging cow -slaughter . 
They used to propagate that those belonging to the congress wore sinful persons inasmuch 
as they were responsible for thousands of cows being slaughtered every day. According to 
the petitioner , because of this propaganda in the said constituency, it had affected adversely 
the election prospects of the respondent No . 2 and brightened the election prospects of 


3798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


[PART II — 


respondent No . 1. Under the Order dated 25th September 1967 granting amendment, the 
petitioner has given particulars of some more meetings wherein Shambhu Maharaj addressed 
voters in several villages . Details of the number of persons attending are also stated . It is 
alleged that on account of the propaganda and on account of the threats to the voters that 
they would become objects of divine displeasuro or spiritual censure if they voted for 
respondent No. 2 , he had lost over 25 ,000 votes and that the respondent No. 1 benefitted 
to the extent. On this ground it was averred that under the circumstances , respondent 
No . 2 is entitled to be declared elected . By the above stated amendment, the petitioner 
also brought in the petition instances and particulars of specches at various places of one 
Mohananand Maharaj and others but ultimately no reliance is placed thereon by the 
petitioner . On these allegations made, the petitioner prayed : ( a ) that it may be declared 
that the election of the respondent No . 1 from the Bansakantha Parliamentary Constituency 
to the House of the People is void ; 


(b ) that it may be declared that the respondent No. 2 has been duly elected to the House 
of the People from the said Banaskantha Parliamentary Constituency ; (c ) that costs of the 
Petition be awarded to the petitioner. 


The respondent No. 1 in reply to the charge of corrupt practice of unduç iniluence of 
inducing or attemptiog to induce the electors to believe that thoy will be rendered an object 
of divinc displeasure or spiritual censure , denied specifically all and every allegation as stated 
in para 14 including the sub - paras thereof save and except the facts specifically admitted 
by him . He denied that he , his agents and other persons with the consent of the returned 
candidatc or his clcction agents had directly or indirectly interfered or attempted to in 
terfere with the free exercise of the electoral rights in as much as they induced the votersi 
or attempted to induce the voters to believe that they will be rendered objects of divine 
digpleasure or spiritual censure. He also denied the allegations, contentions and submis 
sions made in the instance cited in support of the allegations. As regards the allegations in : 
respect of the specches made by Shambhu Maharaj, the respondent No. 1 denicd that 
Shambhu Maharaj is a well-known saint and Kirtan -Kesari and a social worker of Gujarat. 
He also denied mcetings having been held for supporting his candidature wherein Shambhu 
Mabaraj had spoken and that such meetings were held with the consent of respondent No . 1 
Or his election agent. He also denied the correctness of the truth of the details regarding 
the place and dates of holding the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. He denied having 
attended any meeting of Shambbu Maharaj. He also denied that his election agent bad 
attended any of the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. He denied that thc basis of cow 
slaughter considered as a sin committed by the congressmen including congress candidates 
was a line of arguments of Shambhu Maharaj. It is also denied that Shambhu Maharaj 
appealed to the religious feelings of the people in the audience and exhorted them not to 
voto for the congress party candidates including the second respondent. It is further 
denied that the alleged appeal, exhortation and urging as aforesaid of the said Shambhu 
Maharaj amounted to inducing or attempting to induce the electors to believe thut the cloc - - 
tors would by voting for any congress party candidate including the respondent No. 2 be- . 
come or he rendered an object of divine displcasure or spiritual ccnsure . He further 
submitted that the allegation regarding the meeting of Shambhu Maharaj and the line of 
argument of his speeches was vague and did not comply with the requirements of scction 
81( 3 ) of the Act. Then as regards the allegations made in para 18 of the petition , res 
pondent No. 1 has stated that it was not true that the result of the election was 
materially affected in so far as it concerned the returned candidate by the alleged corrupt 
practice committed in the interest of the returned candidate . He denied the allegation 
made in respect of Shri Gupta and the activity of Sarvodaya Gau Raksha Samiti He 
denied that any propaganda was made as alleged , in the constituency by those who were 
carrying on agitation of the prevention of cow -slaughter to the effect that the Congress 
party and the persons belonging to the party including its candidates did not believe in the 
prevention of cow - slaughter. He denied that any such propaganda was made with his 
knowledge and consent of his or of his election agents . He also denied that respondent 
No. 2 lost the election by a small margin of 4407 votes on account of the alleged pro 
paganda in the name of the religion and the cow . 


Over and above this, the respondent No. 1 also raised a contention that the petition is 
not in accordance with sections 81, 82 and 83 of the Act and thereforc not maintainable . 
It is also contended that the petitioner had not verified full particulars of the corrupt 
practice alleged and that the affidavit in support of the allegations of corrupt practices is : 
not in accordance with law . 


After tho petition was amended , for the first time, the respondent No. 1 put in his addi 
tional written statement and so far as the material allegations are concerned , he has denied 


S & C . 31:1) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 3799 
= = = = 

= = = = = - - - - S S - - = - = 
the allegations made in para 18A (i ). Hc denied that the meetings 49 stated in the said 
para were held at the places mentioned therein and the persons alleged to havo attended 
kuch neetings numbered as stated therein . He also denied that on account of appeal in 
the name of religion and on account of the thrcats of divine displeasure and spiritual 
censure to voters , the respondent No. 2 had lost about 25 , 000 votes . As regards the 
allegation in para 18 A (ii), respondent No. 1 denied that the alleged moeting at was 
held and that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed the said meeting. He also dented that 
Mohananand Maharaj had addressed the said mceting . 

After the last amendment was allowed on the 7th of March 1968 and the petition was 
amended , the respondent No . I put in his further written statement to the amended poti 
-tion inter alia stating that for the purpose of cleciding as to whether Shambhu Maharaj by 
his allcgcd speeches induced or atteinpted to induce his audience to believo that they will 
bocome or will be rendered an object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure , portions of 
his alleged speeches or cxtracts of his alleged specches cannot be picked up and considered 
lo hors their context in the entire spcech , if it is proved to have been actually made by 
Shambhu Maharaj, should be read as a whole in order to decide as to whothor Shambhu 
Maharaj had induced the alleged belict in his audience . He further submitted that it 
should be taken into consideration that the fast of Shankeracharya and others on their 
insistence on a total ban of cow -slaughter had become shot political issue on the eve of 
the election and it had caused public agitation at various places. Shambhu Maharaj was 
also a probable candidate at í election and be had decided not to contest ultimately . 
During the c !ion period, wh . . the election tempo was very high , on the political issues , 
if there were exaggerations , metaphors and strong language resorted to by the speaker and 
it incidentally the speaker had introduced considcrations of religion , allowance should be 
made for the same and those considerations of religion , it at all introduced by the speakor 
in his speech should be considered in the light of the relevant political controversy . It is 
denied that in speeches were made at Iqbalgadh , Laxmipura , Amirgadh , Vav, Bhabbar 
and Tharad by Shambhu Maharaj as have been reproduced. He further denicd that 
Shambhu Maharaj made any such specches with his consent or with the consent of his 
election agent . A dispute has also been raised as regards the correctness of the translation 
made by the petitioner of the extracts from the alleged specches of Shambhu Maharaj at 
several meetings and which are reproduced in the amended petition . It has also been 
stated that Shambhu Maharaj is not shown or even alleged by the petitioner to possess any 
authority from Shankaracharya to make any statement for and On behalf of or in the name 
of Shankaracharya . It has also not been shown that Shankaracharya had in fact conveyed 
any mcassage or mandate to the audience through Shambhu Maharaj at each of the places 
where Shambhu Maharaj is alleged to have spokon . It is further stated that unless Shan 
karacharya had himself given any message or mandate to Hindus or unless tho person who 
speaks in the name of Shankaracharya or purports to convey any message or mandate 
from Shankaracharya , discloses any due authority from Shankaracharya to the audience, 
the alleged message or mandate of Shankaracharya as conveyed by the speaker cannot 
cause any cffect on the voters. The said statement is more or less argumentative and 
therefore I do not find it necessary to refer to all the statements made therein as they shall 
be considered as parts of the submissions made by the learned Advocate while consider 
ing the respective issues . 
The issucs arising froin the pleadings and my findings thereon are as follows: 
Issues 

Findings. 


( I ) Whether respondent No. I proves that the petition is First part in the negative . Second 

not in accordance with the provisions of Sec9 . 81, 82 or part in the affirmative . 
83 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ? If 

so , whether the petition is maintanable ? 
( 2 ) Whether respondent No. I proves that the petitioner In the negative. Second part does 

has not verified full particulars of the corrupt practice not survive . 

allcgcd by him ? If so , what is the result ? 
( 3 ) Whether respondent No, I proves that the affidavit in In the ncgativc, Second part does 

support of the allegationg of corrupt practices is not not gurvive . 

in accordance with law ? If so , what is the result ? 
( 4 ) Whether the allegations regarding the corrupt pract . ¢ Ist Part : 

committed by the persons other than the Election Agent Jn the negative . 
areliable to be struck off ? Whether the petitioner can Ind Part : 
be permitted to lead evidenceregarding corrupt practice in the affirmativo . 
committed by persons other than the returned candidate 
or his Election Agent-? 


. 


- 


- - IT 14 


- - 


3800 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 (PART 11 – 

- - - - -- 
Issues 

Findings 
( 5 ) Whether the petitioner proves that the first respondent Not pressed . 

incurred or authorised expenditure in contravention 

of S . 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
(6 ) Whether the petitioner proves that any person named in Ist part : In thc affirmative with 

the getition induce or attempted to induce any elector regard to Shambhu Maharaj 
to believe that he or any other person in whom he was only . 
interested would become the object of divincdis - Ilnd part : Said corrupt practice 
pleagurt or spiritual censure ? If so , whether the said was committed with the consent 
corrupt practice wi8 committed by the first respondent of the Election Agent of Res 
or by his election Agent or with the consent of the pondent No, I . 

first respondeat or his Election Agent ? 
( 7 ) Whether the petitioner proves that ani person named In the negative. 

in the petition appealed to the voters to vote for or 
refrain from voting for any person on the ground of 
use of or appeal to religious symbol and that such 
appeal was for furtherance of the prospects of the 
election of the first respondent ? 
Whether the said corrupt practice was committed by 
the first respondent or by hiş election agent or by any 
other person with the consent of the first respondent 
or his election agenu ? 

(old issue was substituted by this issuc) . 
(8 ) Wocther the petitioner proves that any person named Not pressed . 

in che petition threatened any elector or any person in 
whom the elector was interezted with injury of any 
kind is alleged in che petitioner ? If so , whether such 
corrupt priccice was committed by the first respondent 
or his eleccion agent or by any other person with the 

consent ofthe firstrespondent or his Election Agent ? 
(9 ) Waether the petitioner proves that any person named Not pressed . 

in the petition used any vehicle for the free conveyance 
of any electors to and from any pulling stations ? 
Wncther such vehicle was hired or procured by the 
first respondent of his election agent or by any other 
person with the consent of the first respondent or his 

Election Agent ? 
( 10 ) What relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled to ? As per order. 
When the issues were framed by Diwan J. Mr. Vakharia , the learned Advocate for thc 
petitioner had stated that he did not want to press the issue regarding rccount on any 
of the grounds nicntioned in section 100 ( 1) ( d ) (III ) and also the ground under section 123 ( 7 ), 
though averments regarding these grounds were set out in the petition . 

At the time when the matter came for hearing before me and after three witnesses were 
cxamined by the petitioner , on the first date when evidence was being recorded , Mr. 
Vakbaria stated that the petitioner did not want to press a part of the grounds based on 
incuring of expenses by respondent No. 1 in excess of the prescribed amount. It was 
stated that grounds in para 11 ( C ) road with para 11 ( AA ) was not pressed that is to say 
the expenditurç allcged to have been made after holding ineetings was not pressed . Suni 
Jarly it was stated that the petitioner did not want to press expenses mentioned in para 
11( C ) ( v ) in respect of the processions . Similarly the ground of allegation in para 11( H ) 
WAS not pressed which was also expenditure alleged to have becn made after processions. 
It was further stated that allegations in para 12 ( a ) and (b ) as regards gifts having 
been given were pressed . Then it was also stated that thc petitioner did not want to 
press his allegations made in para 17 of the petition . This ground was given up earlier 
as stated above. Similarly it was reiterated that allegations in para 19 were also not 
pressed which he had already given up at the stage of framing issues . 

After the evidence of about 16 witnesses was recorded , on the 5th of March 1968 
Mr. Vakharia on behalf of the petitioner again informed the Court that the petitioner 
was not pressing issue No. 5 as a whole . Similarly be declared that issues Nos . 8 and 9 . 
were also not pressed. As regards issues Nos, 6 and 7 it was stated that issuc No. 6 
will be pressed only so far us it concerned the speeches of Sbambhu. Nabaraj and the 
allegations in respect of other speakers were not pressed . Similarly with regard to issuo 
No . 7 also it was declared that the petitioner was not pressing the issue except in the 
case of the specches of Shambhu Maharaj. 

The above discussion would show that issues Nos. 5 , 7 , 8 and 9 do not survive for 
consideration as they are not pressed before me ultimately . The burden of proof of issue 


Soc . 3 (ii) ; THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 3801 


- 


Nos. 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 is on respondent No . 1 . They were not given up though questioned 
at the stage when the petitioner gave up certain part of his case. But no attempt was 
mado to substantiate either of these issucs at any stage and the learned Advocate for 
the respondent No. 1 has made no submissions before me on these issues . Therefore 
they also do not remain to be considered . Therefore , the only issue that requires to be 
considered and decided is issue No . 6 so far as it concerned the speeches of Shambhu 
Maharaj. More preciscly put, the only points that now remains for determination are : 
( 1 ) Whether any of the speeches or part thercoí alleged to have been made by Shambhu 
Maharaj and which are Exs . R - 1 to R -6 wero made by Shambhu Maharaj and if so whether 
they amount to corrupt practice of undue influence falling under section 123 ( 2 ) proviso 
( a ) (ii ) of the Act ? ( 2 ) If so whether it could be said that it was committed with the 
Consent of respondent No. 1 or his clection agent Punambhgi Patel. 


The evidence relied upon by the petitioner to discharge the burden of proof of the 
corrupt practice alleged, broadly divides itself into two parts viz ., ( i) the documentary 
evidence mostly consisting of the reports mudc by witness Police Constable Barot of the 
speeches made by Shambhu Maharaj. These have of course to be read with the oral 
evidence of witness Barot and the supporting evidence of witneys P . S . I. Pandha ; ( ii ) 
the Ocal evidence of witnesscs who claim to have attended the meetings of Shambhu 
Maharaj at various places . I may at once say that the oral evidence of other witnesses 
has not been relied upon by the petitioner to prove the contents of the speeches but is 
rolied upon inter alia for proving the facts of Shambhu Maharaj having made specches 
at those respective places where the witnesses themselves claim to have attended the 
fact of the statuts of Shambhu Maharaj ctc . It will therefore bc convcnicnt to deal 
with this oral evidence later . 


LIB , Sub -Inspector Pandya established that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed meetings 
in Banaskanth :1 Parliamentary constituency on the 26th of January 1967 , 8th of February 
and 9th of February 1967. On the 26th of January 1967, Shambhu Maharaj had addressed 
the mcetings at Palanpur , Thara , Dcosa , and Radhanpur . He conceded that for those 
mçetings, hc fad inade no special arrangement for taking down the notes of the speeches 
of Shambhu Maharaj. On the 8th of February 1967 Shambhu Maharaj had addressed 
mcctir. is at blyadh , Amirgadh and Laxmipura . Laxmipura is the suburb of Palappur. 
For these meetings he had made arrangement to have reports taken by tha shorthand 
writer witness Barot. He himself also had attended these mectings . He deposcd that 
these shorthand roportcr had taken notes of the speeches in shorthand and then he had 
prepare tho transcript thereof and submitted them to him . The shorthand notes were 
retained by the reporter . The witness produced the reports submitted to him . As regards 
the 9th of February 1967 the witness said that Shambhu Maharaj had addressed mectings 
at Tharad , Vav and Bhabhar . Shorthand notes were taken by the samo shorthand reporter 
and transcripts wero submitted to him , I do not think it necessary to enter into the details 
of the cross-cumination of this witness becauso there has been no attempt on tho part 
of tho respondent No. 1 by his counsel to challenge the varacity of the fact of reports 
having been taken by constable Barot which ultimately is the most important fact to be 
be considered in this case and on which reliance has been placed by the petitioner. Truc 
it is that at the stage of the cross -cxamination , some effort was made to shake the evidence 
of this witress . But even then I do not find anything in the cross- examination which 
would make me believe that what the witness had come to say was not the truth . 


Witness No. 13 Chandrakant Barot has deposed that he is a shorthand reporter in 
the police department and he was in the office of the D . I.G . C I. D . in February 1968. He 
was instructed to go to Palanpur and report himself to the D . S .P ., Palannur. He was 
ultimutely asked to contact L . I.B . Police Sub - Inspector Pandya and he was then instructed 
that he will have to go to villages for covering the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj. 
Ho deposed that on the 8th of February 1967 he had first gone to Iqbalgadh , taken short 
band report of the speech made hyShambhu Maharaj, then to Amirgarh and lastly 
to Laxmipura where also he had taken the reports in shorthand . He produced note 
books in which he had taken the shorthand reports. He deposed that from these short 
hand notes that he had made, he had prepared the transcripts to be submitted to the 
higher authorities . He had got to transcripts typed by anothor person . He had got 
these typed in his presence by sitting near the typist and dictating from the shorthand 
notes directly to the typist. It is to be noted that at this stage the witness was asked to 
read out tho report of Iqbalgadh made from his shorthand notes and he almost read half 
way through in Court and while he was reading the transcript waş being checked and it 
was found that word for word the typed report compared correctly with the sborthand 
notes about which & note has been made in his cvidence . The witness then deposed that 
ho had got typed the transcript word for word from notes so far the speech of Shambhu 
Maharaj was concerned . Tho headings in the typowritten transcriot shown are also there 
in the shorthand note book . The witness has further deposed that he had taken down 


3802 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2, 1890 


[PART II 


those shorthand notes of what was spoken in the meeting . It is found that so far the 
speech of Punambhai Fulabhai Patel , the election agent of respondent No. 1 is concerned , 
tho witness had taken down the speech made by him in the shorthand note book but in the 
typewritten report, only a reference in short had been made to that effect. Tbo witness 
further deposed that in the typewritten report also the facts stated are corroct. Red it 
contains what was actually stated by Shambhu Maharaj in the respective meetings. Then 
he explained that in the column of speakers at the head of the report, he had only 
montioned the names of those who spoke in the meetings and had not noted the names 
of prominent persons also who were present. But later on the witness has said that he 
also used to note the names of the prominent persons if he was known to him . The wit 
ness also deposed the same way as regards the meetings at Vav , Tharåd and Bhabhar 
on the 9th of February 1967 . As regards the meetings at Vav , the witness said that he 
had taken down the report of that meeting in long hand himself from the shorthand notes 
and had sent it to the D . S . P ., Palanpur by post. The transcripts of the reports of the 
two other meetings were got typed in the same manner as he had done in respect of 
the meetings of the 8th . Whatever has been stated in these reports was actually stated 
by Shambhu Maharaj. In cross- examination the witness stated that over and above the 
above stated mcetings, his shorthand note book also contained the reports of the speeches 
at Juna Deesa and Chandisar where Shambhu Maharaj had spoken on the 9th of February 
The reports of these meetings were also forwarded to the higher authorities. He was 
also present at village Deodar but at that place , Shambhu Maharaj had not made any 
specch . He did not know whether at Gadh he had made any speech or not because he 
had not gone to Gadh . Io cross -examination the witness said that he had taken shorthand 
notes of all the specches of Shambhu Maharaj word for word . I am again not trying 
to enter into the discussion of the evidence of this witness in any details of the cross 
examination because I find that tho witacss has not at all been shaken in cross- examination 
But apart from that it is material to note that no attempt has been made and very rightly 
on behalf of the first respondent to challenge before me the veracity of the evidence of 
eiher P . S . I, Pandya or L . I. B . constable Barot. On the contrary it was the submission of 
the learned Advocate for the respondent No . 1 at the time when the amendment applica 
tion was argued that not only respondent No. 1 did not challenge thc varacity of these 
witnesses, nor the fact that the reports produced by witness Barot but on the contrary 
so far as witness Barot is concerned, there was a positive effort made by him to establish 
that the shorthand notes that he had taken of the respective speeches of Shambhu Maharaj 
and their transcripty were genuino , reliable documentary evidence and that the speeches 
were taken down by the witness in shorthand word for word uttered by Shambhu Maharaj 
and that the transcripts were also correctly made. This last aspect of the submission 
on behalf of respondent No . 1 that there was no positive effort made on his behalf 
to establish these facts , I have not accepted in the order passed by me allowing 
the amendment for reasons given therein but the fact remains that there 
is no doubt whatever that this evidenco is entirely reliable and that the 
transcripts Exts , B - 1 to B - 6 of the shorthand notes made by witness Barot arc 
word for word faithful reproduction of the specches of Shambbu Maharaj made at 
respective places . Mr. Nanavaty even at the stage of final arguments fairly did not 
dispute these facts . 


As observed above , the only kind of corrupt practice which the petitioner has alloged 
and has to establish is the one falling within the four corners of proviso (a ) (11) of 
section 123 ( 2 ) of the Act which is as follows: 


" 123, Corrupt practice . The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for 
the purposes of this Act : - - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) Unduo influence , that is to say, any direct of indirect interference or attempt 

to interfere on the part of the candidate or his agent, or of any other 
person with the consent of the candidate or his election agent, with the 

free exercise of any electoral right 
Provided that 


(a ) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of this clause any such 

person as is referred to therein who 


( il ) induce or attempts to induce a candidate or any elector to believe that he , 

or any person in whom he is interested , will bocome or will bo rendorod an 


Sec. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 , BHADRA 2 , 1890 , 3803 


object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure , shall be deemed to later 
fere with the free exercise of the electoral right of such candidate or 
elector within the meaning of this clause ; 


* 


16 


* 


(3 ) 


* 


(3A ) 


* 


* 


* 


E 


The first part of sub - section ( 2 ) provides that undue influence will be one of the corrupt 
practices and is also laid down what will be considered to be undue influence for the 
purposes of the Act. It lays down that any direct or indirect interference or an attempt 
to interfere by a candidate or his election agent or any one else with the consent of the 
candidate or his election agent, with thc free cxcrcise of the right to vote or refrain from 
voting for a candidate will amount undue influence. Then the proviso is added by way of 
explanation and not for the purpose of carrying out something from the main provision , 
The effect of the proviso ( a ) (ii ) is that if a candidate , his clcction agent or any one 
else with his consent or the consent of his election agent induces or attempts to induce 
a candidate or an elector to believe that he or any person in whom he is interested will 
become ro will be rendered an object of divine displcasure or spiritual censure , shall bo 
deemed to commit the corrupt practice of undue influencc as defined by the main part 
of sub- section ( 2 ) . 


Mr. Nanavaty first raised the question of the construction of the proviso (a ) ( ii ) of soc 
tion 123 ( 2 ) . He submitted that in the construction of this provision , the distinction 
between the provisions of the main part of sub - section ( 2 ) and the old sub -soction ( 3 ) 
must be kept in mind as a background , Sub -section ( 2 ) main part deals with the vice 
of interference with the free exercise of the electoral right and that can arise in a 
variety of ways. Sub- section (3 ) before the present amendment prohibited fucre systematic 
appeal inter alia on the ground of religion but proviso ( a ) ( i ) strikes at what is known 
as temporal intimidation while proviso ( a ) (ii ) deals with what is known as Spiritual 
intimidation , Argued Mr, Nanavaty that therefore in the cases falling under the old sub 
section ( 3 ) and proviso ( a ) ( i) mere utterance of words appealing to religious sentimoots 
provided it was a systematic appeal or threatening any candidate or voters would amount 
to corrupt practice but it is not so in the cases falling within proviso (a ) (ü ). In proviso 
( a ) ( ii ) the Legislature has used the words " induces or attempts to induce an candidato 
or an elector to believe." The words " induce " and " to believe" are significant and they 
inducate that the person doing the act or uttering the words must be so situated qua the 
audience that he must be in a position to generate the impugned belief and mere utterance 
of words by any one to any one else cannot come within the mischief. Mr. Nanavaty 
then put a question to himself as to who then must have been comtemplated by the 
Legislature who would be able to generate such a belief. Ho answered by submitting that 
as this proviso ( a ) ( ii) contemplates the specific undue influence of spiritual threat only , 
the person uttering the words must be a person who is in a position to spiritually influence 
his audience and that too in a position to unduly influence so as to leave no chance to the 
electors to vote as they liked by inducing the belief that they shall be objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure. Mr. Nanavaty culminated his argument by advancing 
& proposition that the act or utterances made can come within the mischief of proviso 
(a ) ( ii ) only when the act is done or words are uttered cither (1) by a religious head 
bolicved to possess some divine power, or ( ii) by a person though not a religious bead 
of that character but is a person wellversed in religion and who has quoted some religious 
book , acceptablo to the audience as authority in support of the impugned utterances which 
are alleged to induce the belief of spiritual threats . In support of this submission , Mr. 
Nanavaty placed reliance on some decisions of Election Tribunals and adopted the reason 
ing as a part of his argument and also relied upon the decisions of some Courts. I shall 
deal with them a little later . 


I am unable to accept this narrow construction canvassed for on behalf of respon 
dent No . 1 . It is a construction which would , to my mind , frustrate the very Object 
of the provision . It is clear from the language used that it contemplates likelihood of. 
the commission of thig corrupt practico of undue influence by a candidato or his eloction 
agent. If the construction suggested were to be accepted , it would mean that a candidate 


3uwa 


SHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART I -- - 


or his election agent can never commit this kind of corrupt practice unless he is a 
person who is recognised as a person possessing some divine powers or authority or is a per 
son who is known to be well- versed in religions and he in support of what he says must be 
able to quote from religious books acknowledged by the audicnce to whoin ho is addressing 
as authoritative books on their religion . To accept the construction canvaşsed for , one will have 
to assume that under no circumstances à layman can ever induce a belief in a candidate 
or olector that he or they shall become or be rendered objects of divine displeasure 
or spiritual censure . To my mind , there is no warrant in the language used to make 
such an absolute assumption. To me it appcars that it would be highly fullaclous to 
mako such a presumption . True it is that the words " to induce " and " to believe " 
must be givon their due weight and it would be correct to say that anything said which 
cannot induce such a belief cannot amount to this specific corrupt practice and it will 
always be a question of fact whether in a given case tho words uttered or writing 
published by an individual before the clcctors is or is not such as to induce such a 
bolief. It is in the nature of things that the facts as to who uttered the words or publish 
o tbo writing the contents of such utterance or publication and before whom they are 
uttered or published are relevant factors to be taken into account in determining in 
oach case as to whether such a person could induce or attempt to induce such a belief. 
It may be that in determining the question whether such a belief has been generated 
or pot, tho Court would more easily be persuaded to hold in the affirmative of tho 
speaker or the publisher iş a savant or a person of some statuts concerning a given 
roligion . In each case , the court has to judge as a question of fact on the evidence 
before it whether the impugned act amounts to inducing or attempting to induce the 
belief in tho electors that they shall be rendered objects of diving displeasure or spiritual 
consuro and in doing so the personality of the speaker and the sensitiveness of the 
audience in respect of religious sentiments are relevant factors to be taken into consi 
deration . But that is quite different from saying that the speaker must have some 
Acknowledged statuts and belief to have some divinc authority in the hierarchy of the 
religion to which the clectors belong, or must be a savant able to quote chapter and 
verse from any religious books accepted as authority on religion by the audience . While 
construing this proviso ( a ) (ii ) it is very necessary to keep in mind the fact that it 
doals with a specie of undục influence as defined in the Arst part of sub -section ( 2 ) of 
section 123 of the Act and therefore the nature of the mischief intended to be forestalled 
by that provision has an impact on thc ( a ) (ii). Tbe mischief which sub -sec . ( 2 ) is 
Intended to prevent is the act which will preclude the elector from electing a candidate 
of his own choice . Any such act done will fall within the vice of sub -section ( 2 ) and 
any act which amounts to a spiritual influence that has the tendency to prevent free choice 
of a candidato would come within the mischief of the proviso (. ) (ii) . It is now 
well - settled that the election law in India lays stress on the prevention of use of influence 
that has the tendency to interfere with the free choice of a candidate by the electorate 
and does not emphasize the individual aspect of the exercise of such inilucnce. This is 
vory explicitly brought out in the decision of the Supreme Court in Ram Dial v . \ int Lol 
A . I. R . 1959 S .C . 855. Where after discussing similar provisions in the English Law , 
the loarned Judges have observed that the Indian Law on the other hand does not 
emphasize the individual aspect of the excrcise of guch influence, but pays regard to 
the use of such influence as has the tendency to bring about the result contemplated 
in the clause . What is material under the Indian Law , is not the actual effect produced 
by tho doing of such acts as are calculated to interfere with the free exercise of any 
clectoral right, 


Mr. Nanavaty s submission included the proposition that the spiritual appcal must 
be of such a character that it leaves no choice whatever to the electors to choose their 
candidato according to their liking . For this, reliance was placed on the following 
pagsago in Ram Dial v . Sant Lal A . I. R . 1959 S . C . 855 ( supra ) : — 
" . . . . But it will amount to an abuse of his great influence if the words hc uses 

in a document, or utters in his speechos , leave no choice to the persons 

addressed by him , in thc exercise of their electoral rights." 
This contention was raised in the case of Lalsing Rehvar v . Vallabdas VII G . L . R 753 and 
tho samo passage was relied upon by Mr. Nanavaty himself on behalf of the respondent, 
Whilo dealing with the said Supreme Court decision, it has been observed that Mr. 
Nanavaty reliod upon tho case of Ram Dial v . Şant Lal and other ( supra ) . That was 
a caso under proviso ( a ) ( ii ) to gection 123 ( 2 ) of the Act. It was a case in which 

religious loader had given a mandate that tho voters should vote in favour of a parti 
cular candidato . In regard to the facts of that particular case , their Lordships of the 
Şupromo Court have made the above stated observations . That was a decision on the 
facts of that particular case and it did not represent the ratio of the caso . The ratio 
of tho Supremo Court docision was that under the Indian Law the emphasis ta on the 
use of influence that bag tho tendency to bring about the result contemplated in clause 


Sec . 3 ( ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3805 


( a ) ( ii) . What is material under the Indian law , is that the actual effect but the doing 
of such acts as are calculated to interfere with free exercise of the electoral right. 
In the said case , this High Court held that what was hit by sub -section ( 2 ) of section . 
123 was tho cffect which the impugned act has on the free exercise of the clectoral 
right. I will rest content at this stage referring to the said observations and adopting . 
them . I may however mention here that it was contended on behalf of the petitioner 
that even in the present case the nature of the speeches was such that it left no free 
choice to the votors to elect the candidate according to their liking. I will deal with 
this aspect later , 


Now dealing with tho other decisions on which Mr. Nanavaty relicd for the narrow 
construction canvassed for by him , the first decision relicd upon is of the Election Tribunal, 
bcing Case No. 2 of 1938 of Mohammed Zakaria v . Mohammed Sallig of Amritsar City 
(Moh :mmadan ) Constituency reported in Vol . II of Indian Election Cases by N : S . 
Doabia P . 160 . One of the points that arose ofr decision in the said case was 
whether certain words uttered in a speoch by M . Zaffar Ali Khan who was the agent 
of tho rospondent in that case committed the corrupt practice of undue influonce . The 
report shows that the Commission was concerned with the Corrupt Practices Order 1936 , 
and that the provision regarding corrupt practice of undue influence is in pari materia 
with tho present provisions of section 123 ( 2 ) and also proviso ( a ) ( ii ) . The petitioner 
in the said case contended that M . Zaffar Ali by making the impugned appeal to the 
voters restricted their choice to only one of the candidates under pain of spiritual penal 
ties and oven otherwise and thereby interfered with the free exercise of their rihgt to 
vote . On the other hand , on behalf of the respondent it was inter alia urged that the 
threat or an clement of compulsion was an essontial ingredient of thc corrupt practice 
of unduc influence and contended that it was not even alleged that M . Zaffar Ali Khan 
compellod his audience to vote for any particular candidato . As regardə this contention , 
tho Tribunal however held that they could not find any basis in the defintion of " undue 
influence " for the proposition that unless M . Zaffar Ali Khan threatened or compolled 
the yotors to vote in a particular manner, the offence of “ unduc iniluçnce " was not 
compelete . The definition of funduc influence was very wide in its terms and included 
four different forms of interference viz ., direct interference , indirect intcreference , direct 
attempt to interfere and indirect attempt to interferc and it was nowhore laid down that 
such interference or attempt to interfere should be by ho method of compulsion. Evi 
dontly the offence included such interference or attempt to interfere by any method and 
the ritin delinitely included the method of inducement wherein there may be no compulsion 
at all. These observations do not in any way support the submission made on behalf of 
the respondent No. I but the Tribunal made the following further observations and 
Mr. Nanavaty particularly relied upon themi: 


" Although we are prepared to concede that the inducement toust be of such a 

powerful type as would leave no free will to the voter in the exerciso of 
his choice . There would of course , be in such a case mental compulsion 
in a sense but it is not necessary that there should be physical compulsion 
or that a threat must be actually held out by the person who intorferes or 

attempts to interfere ." 
This aspect of the matter , I have already dealt with by rcfering to the decision in VII 
Gui. L . R . P .753 (supra ). But apart from that, I shall later point out that if this principle 
has also to be followed , it cannot holp the respondent No. 1 . In the case before tho 
Tribunal, an effort similar to the one made by Mr. Nanavaty was made to urge that 
spiritual undue influence can be exercised by a Pir viz ., a spiritual leader only and that as 
M , Zaffar Ali Khan was not a Pir but a mere lay man , the charge of tho corrupt practice 
of unduc influence could not stand against him . The Tribunal however negatived his 
submission and observed that the definition aş reproduced , does not contain anything 
to support the above contention but it was true that whereas in the case of a Pir ho bas 
the authority of spiritual leadership at his back and what he therefore said was bound to 
carry conviction to his followers, an inducement held out by a layman will be considered 
suficiently strong to interfere with the exorcise of free will only if the community con 
cerned has great rogard for his opinions, or if what he says, has the sanction of some 
religious book whose authority was admitted by the community in quostion . Mr. 
Nanavaty also drew attention to the following observations: 
"We agree that one can appeal to religion in & religious constituency and thoro is 

certainly no objection in saying or issuing a manifesto to the effoct that a cer 

tain candidate s election will bo prejudicial to the interests of Muslims, but the 
limit is transgressed , if one attempts to introduce the idea of suggestion that 
voting in a particular mannor will be sinful, and provided tho speakong ither 
exercises considerablo Influenco Among his co - roligionists , or if what he says : 
has tho support of tho Holy Quran " . 


3806 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[ Part II 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


The latter part of tho observations where the Tribunal expressed its view as to when the 
limit will be transgressed , it certainly did not mçan to lay down any absolute general pro 
position that tho limit would be transgressed only if the situation as stated by it obtains. 
The Tribunal only held that if such facts cxist, the limit will be certainly transgressed . It 
did not lay down that in no other circumstances the limit can be considered to have been 
transgressed , 


The next decision of the Tribunal to which my attention was drawn on behalf of the 
respondent No. 1 is : Jyotsnu Chandra v . Mehrabali III Election Law Reporter P . 488 . In 
the said case , the Tribunal observed that they did not find any distinct evidence in proof of 
the fact that the persons said to have addressed the above mectings were really persons 
whose words carried considerable weight with the people thus addressed and in matters of 
religion . Then refering to the Amritsar City H . P . Constituency, 1937; Md. Zakaria v. Sheikh 
Md. Sadiq and case the Tribunal observed that though it has been observed in the said 
casc upon which case pctitioners have relied , that spiritual undue influence can be exercised 
among the Muslims by layman such as Maulanas and such others without their being Pirs 
(that is , spiritual leaders ), the men must be proved to be persons for whose opinion on 
matters of religion , the community had great regard . The evidence on this last point has 
not here been quite satisfactory . Of course , an appeal to the voters such as these , in the 
name of Quoran as proved , would have been held in thc nature of mental coersion if they 
had been proved to have emanated from persons whose opinion in matters of religion 
carried considerable influence with them , on which last point, the evidence has not been 
quite satisfactory . As I have discussed here above , in each case the Court will have to 
determine whether under the facts of the case the undue influence alleged is proved or not , 
and the position of the speaker qua the audience and the contents of the specches are re 
levant facts to be considered. But I am unable to agree with the view that under no cir 
cumstances a lay person can joduce the belief contemplated by proviso (a ) (ii). In the view 
that I take and which I shall further discuss a little later , it is possible for a person held 
in great respect by the voters of a given locality not for his knowledge in matters of reli 
gion but otherwise and if he purports to convey the message or mandate of an acknow 
ledged religious leader which contains some spiritual intimidation , the offence of corrupt 
practice is contemplated by sub -section ( 2 ) proviso (a ) ( ii ) would be committed , 

I will now deal with the Supreme Court decisions which were referred before me by the 
parties. In Shubnath v , Ram Narain AJR , 1960 S . C : 148 a leaflet was addressed to the 
electorate mainly consisting of Adibasis . It was published by the party sponsoring one of 
the candidates , which party was mainly supported by Adibasis . Cock was the official 
symbol of the party and therefore of the candidates supported by it. The leallet con 
tained an appel in verse form and it is made to appear as if it was what the cock itself was 
saying to the electorate by ending the verse with the words; " Your only cock " . The 
ground taken to challenge the election was that it amounted to corrupt practice under old 
sub -section ( 3 ) of section 123 of the Act which prohibited systematic appeal to vote or re 
frain from voting inter alia on the ground of religion for the furtherance of the prospects 
of that candidate s election . In the majority judgment (Sabha Rao J. dissenting) it was 
observed that the leaflot was largely concerned a Cock . It was said that the leaflet by 
Tetering to the cock appealed to the religious sentiments of the Adibasis. It was not in 
disputo that cocks were very frequently offered as sacrifices by the Adibasis to the deitics . 
The lcurned Judges then examined the contents of the leaflet and said that it was clear that 
it was sent to be an appeal to the electorate . There was no doubt that the clcctorate 
appealed to was primarily that part of it which consisted of the Adibasis. It further 
seemed to them that the appeal was made in the name of the cock and it ends " Yours 
only cock " . It uses the word me and I at several places and they clearly refor to the 
cock . It was clear therefore that the leaflet purported to be an appeal by the cock stating 
that it served the community even at the cost of its life and that in exchange for these 
services " chara " that is, food in the shape of yote should be given to it which could only 
mean , in the box with the cock symbol that is to the Jharkhand party candidates including 
- the appellant. Then refering to the religious ceremonies and the place of cock in the 
ceremonies , it was observed that it was beyond doubt that by refering to thc mcrifice of 
the cock the obtaining of the pleasure of the deities was sought to be conveyed . When 
the cock in the leaflet sad give chara in the shape of vote , what it said in substance was that 
the giving of such votes would result in the deities being pleased . It was tried to be suggested 
on behalf of tho respondent there in that case that all that was meant by the leaflet was 
that like the sacrificial cock the candidate , that is, the appellant was prepared to lay his 
life down for the good of the community . The learned Judges however negatived that 
suggestion and observed that they found no language in the leaflet to convey such a mean 
ing. There was nothing to show that the sacrificial cock was being ilkened to the appellant. 
There was no referenco whatsoever to the appellant in the loaflot. Proceeding further the 


H . * 17] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 9, 1991 3807 

- - . - - - - - - - -- = . = .. . = - : - - : - - - = - - = = - - = -. - = - = - = - = - = 
Court held that the sentence " do not forget me otherwise I tell , you sons of men will suffer 
eternal miscries" in the loaflet clearly invokes the wrath of the deities on the cloctorate in 
caso thcy forget the cock that is forget to vote for the party of which it was the symbol, 
for vote was likened to the food which had to be given to the sacrificial cock and when 
the Gods wero displeased , the cock did not take the food. Their Lordships came to the 
conclusion aftcr the discussion that that was clcarly an appeal on the ground of religion 
for the substance of it was that it would be an irreligious act not to vote for tho party , 
There are other observations in the said case which aro important to be noted . They 
have said , it may be that it would come within the kind of undue influence mentioned in 
section 123 ( 2 ) ( a ) (ii) of the Act if practised on an individual clector. Then they have 
considered the fact that if this kind of appeal which they have set out wore made systema 
tically to a large scction of the electors, it would come within section 123( 3 ) of the Act. 
Then they have further observed that it would seem clear that an appeal that it would be 
a rcligious act to vote in a certain manner would be an appeal on grounds of religion . If 
so , it seemed cicar that an appeal that a failure to vote in a certain manner would be 
against religion , would also be an appeal on grounds of religion . For these reasons, 
I heir Lordship., ultimately held that the view of the Courts below that the leaflct contained 
in appeal on grounds of religion was con cct, 


It is true that in the said case the Court was concerned with the allegation of corrupt 
practice under old sub -section ( 3 ). But what was important to note was that it was held 
that though the language may be metaphorical or parable may be used if the subject 
mutter of the talk in substance is an appeal to religious sentiments and if the clectorate is 
told that it would be irreligious to vote in favour of the other capdidato , or not to vote in 
favour of a particular candidato , it would amount to an appeal on the ground of religion . . 
It is also very important to note that the Supreme Court has observed after discussing the 
whole case that such an appeal would come within the kind of undue influence mentioned 
in section 123 ( 2 ) proviso ( a ) ( ii ) also . Now these obscrvations are by way of abitar 
clicts but all the same this lands support to the reasoning that I have adopted . From this 
decision . therefore , it would appear that though no religious hcad had published the pam 
phlct and it was published by the party supporting ono of these candidates as it adopted this . 
device which in substance was an act whereby religious sentiment of the clectorate was 
played upon and a belief was induced that if the vote is not given to the candidato with 
the symbol of the cock , it will be an irreligious act or a sin implicit wheroi nis the 
spiritual threat. 


It would be even useful to have a look at the observations made at this stage wherein 
illustrations have been given by Subha Rao J . in his differing judgment wherein by giving 
those illustrations the learned Judge has given an ideą us to the limit up to which an 
appcal can go to refer to the matters on religion. The learned Judge has observed that 
the section is not obviously intended to prevent appeals in picturesque or metaphorical 
language drawing analogies from mythology, religion or folklore . In his view when 
most of tho voters are illiterate , the candidate or his agent can attract and enthuse the 
audience or drive home his points only by parables, similes or metaphors drawn parti 
cularly from religious lore which most of thọ people understand and appreciate . A dis 
tinction must, thercfore , be drawn between canvassing on grounds of religion and seeking of 
votes in graphic or picturesque language with analogies from religious lore and then the 
1cainel Judge has given illustration to further clarify or specify his vicw and this part of 
his observations to my mind are indeed very instructive . Tho learned Julgc nas said to 
illustiale , a candidato may appeal to the clectorate consisting of persons professing diffc 
rent religions , say Hindus, Mohammadans, Christians etc . to vote for him and say that he 
would sacrifice his life in thc cause of his constituency just like Christ sacrificed his life to 
redeen the world . He may also say that like Rama, the virtuous , who killed Ravana, 
the rakshasa . The embodiment of evil, he would , if elected , put down corruption , nepotism 
and the like in Government. He may even say that he would sacrifice himself as a goat 
before Kali to bring happiness and prosperity to his constituency . All these similes are 
drawn from rcligion , but thev do not embody an appeal, directly or indirectly , to vote for : 
the candidate on grounds of religion . Now even if this view of the learned Judge is . 
acccpted , it clcarly indicates the line which is expected to be drawn by the speaker in 
order to avoid falling within the vices of the corruption of undue influence as contem 
plated by section 123( 2 ) and also under proviso (a ) (ii), in the illustration given , it is easy 
to understand that the speaker or the candidate only tries to draw similes in order to 
emphasize the main theme of the political controversy or the points which were the : 
policy of their party which if successful they would like topersue . I shall certainly keep 
this fact in mind when I go to consider the contents of the speeches with which I am 
concerned as to whether the specches can be saved cven on this principle . I And that 
these observations of the learned Judge are not even in conflict with the majority vicws in 


3808 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART Il - - 


the said judgment. As I have already referred to most of the reasoning of the majority 
judgment from which it is apparent that the effort on the part of the respondent to turn 
the impugoed part of the pamphlet into only such a similos was not accepted by the 
majority judgment on facts and on the construction of the impugned part of the said 
Pamphlet. 

This also becomes obvious as I shall point out a little later that in an other judginent 
of the Supreme Court , these observations from the dissenting judgment have actually been 
drawn upon for the purposes of supporting the conclusions reached in that decision and I 
might as wel! immediately refer to that decision which is in Ramanbhai v . Dabhi djlikurnar 
A . I. R , 1965 S . C . 669 . In the said case , the question before the Court was wlicther leaflets 
bearing the symbol of the Star, the official symbol of the Swatantra Party , were published 
by a Swatantra Paksha candidate describing it as star " Dhruva " with the characteristics 
associated with that star can amount to the corrupt practice under amended sub -section 
( 3 ) of section 123 of the Act, the object whereof is to prohibit the stirring up of religous 
sentiment by lise or appeal to a religious symbol. This question was examined in two 
branches by the Court: Whether the symbol uscd has any special religious significance 
and whether its inscription on leaflets and pamphlets which were distributed anwunts to 
the use of a religious symbol. On both counts the Court held in the negative . This case 
too had 90 direct bearing on the question beforo mc but certain observations are very 
instructive . The learned Judges while discussing the question , referred to the passage in 
the dissenting judgment of Subba Rao J, to which I have made a reference . The observa 
tions are as follow :- . 

" We have quoted the learned Judge to point out that a reference to prophets of 

religions or to deities vencrated in a religion or to their qualities and deeds 
does not necessarily amount to an appeal to the religious sentinent of the 
electorate . Something more has to be shown for this purpose as indeed , 
according to the majority of the Judges who decided the case , was established 
therein " . 


Then Mudholkar J. speaking for the Supreme Court in the later decision tries to give 
instances on his own to illustrate further the point. It is observed that if for instance, the 
illiterate , the orthodox or the fanatical electors arc told that their religion would be in 
danger or they will suffer miseries or calamiticş unless they cast their vote for a particular 
candidate , that would be quite clearly an appeal to the religious sentiment of the people . 
Similarly if they are told that the wrath of God or of a deity will visit them if they do not 

exercise their franchiso in a particular way or if they are told that they will receive the 
blessings of God or a deity if they vote in a particular way , that would be an appeal to 
the religions sentiment. Now these illustrations clearly point out when the speaker refer 
ring to matters religious , would trensgress the line. This is the other side of the picture 
that has been depicted by the learned Judge . To my mind , therefore, these obscrvations 
made giving illustrations are very material for the purpose of the matter on hand . Suffice 
it to say at this stage that if the electorate consisting of illiterate or orthodox Hindus or 
Hindus having ordinary religious sentiments are told that they will suffer çalamities or 
miseries unless they give their votes for a particular candidate , that would be an appeal to 
their religious sentiment. I will have occasion to advert, to it again a little later . Another 
principle reiterated by the Supreme Court in this decision is that the abention literatura 
should ncither be judged strictly nor taken literally . 

In 1969 S . C . 855 , to which I have already made a reference , was relied upon by Mr. 
Nanavaty also to show that their religious leader is not precluded from the right of can 
vassing. Indeed , no one can grudge tho right of a religious leader to express his opinion 
regarding merits or demerits of the candidates and to canvass for such of them as he thinks 
deserves his support. Ho can use his influenco in canvassing votes for him as any other 
voter can but then there are limitations too for such a religious leader. If he instead of 
doing limiting the propoganda in that direction , utters words or publishes any pamphlet 
wbich would excite religious acntiments and does not confine himself to merely incidental 
reference to religion as was illustrated by Subba Rao J, to which I have made a reference 
and makes the voters believe that if they were to vote for a particular candidate they will 
be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual censure , then certainly he crosses bis 
limits of his right as any other voter to canvass for the candidato of his choice and will be 
guilty of corrupt practice as contemplated by section 123 (2 ) ( a ) ( ii ) of the Act. That is 
what the Supreme Court has actually held in the said case . On the said aspect, Mr. 
Nanavaty tried to distinguish the present case but I shall deal with it whon I actually con 
sider the impugned speeches of Shambhu Maharaj, 

In the background of these legal principles it would now be convenient to deal with the 
facts of the present case and the question is whether any of the impugned speeches made 


JAC . ( u ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRI 2 , 1896 


3809 


- = 


= 


- 


- 


-- - - - - - - 


by Shambhu Maharaj or any part thereof read in context of the other parts of the respec 
tivc speeches , has the vice of the tendency to bring about a belief in the electorate at the 
respective places that they shall be rendered objects of divine displeasure or spiritual 
censure . I now therefore turn to the speechos. 

The mere fact of any corrupt practice committed by Shambhu Maharaj even if estab 
lished connot help the petitioner unless it is further established that he did so with the con 
sent of the candidate or his election agent and as even the reports of witness Barot notes 
the presence of the election agent of respondent No . 1 Punambhai Patel only in the most 
iogs at Iqbalgadh , Amirgadh and Vav Exs. B - 1, B - 3 and B - 4 , Mr. Daru , the learned Advo 
cate for the petitioner relied upon these reports only to prove the contents and the nature 
of speeches by Shambhu Maharaj to establish the charge of corrupt practice alleged . In the 
beginning it was tried by Mr. Daru to say that the consent of either respondent No. 1 or 
his election agent must be held to be established so far as the other speeches are also con 
cerned but ultimately he rightly confined to only these three speeches and did not urge that 
there was any reliablc oral evidence to establish corrupt practice with reference to the othor 
specches. 

It is now a well - settled principle that in construing election literature or impugned parts 
of spoeches. the document or the speech must be read or construed as a wholo and its pur 
port and effect determined in a fair objective and reasonable manner . This was the sub 
niission of Mr. Nanavaty and Mr. Daru did not demur at it. The Supreme Court in 
Kultar Single v . Mukhtiar Singh A . I. R . 1965 S . C . 141 has laid down that in reading such 
documents , it would be unrealistic to ignore the fact that when election meetings are held 
and appeals are made by candidates of opposing political parties, the atmosphere is usually 
surcharged with partisan feelings and emotions and the use of hyperbolcs or exaggerated 
language , or the adoption of metaphors and the extravagonce of expression in attacking ope 
another , are all a part of the game; And so when the question about the effect of speeches 
delivered or pamphlets distributed at election meetings is argued in the cold atmosphere of 
la judicial chamber, some allowance must be made and the impugned speeches or pam 
phlets must be construed in that light. But at the same time the Supreme Court has uttered 
a warning and said that in doing so , however , it would be unreasonable to ignore the quca 
tion as to what the effect of the said speech or pamphlet would be on the mind of the 
ordinary voter who attends such meetings and reads the pamphlets or hears the speeches . 
There is yet another principle also laid down and that is that topics like language or reli 
gion may be incidentally or indirectly touched by speakerg in political meetings whilo dis 
cussing political issues which form the subject matter of controversy and care must be taken 
while deciding the question as to whether the impugnad parts of the speech do amount to 
the corrupt practice or not and the matter should be considered in the light of relevant 
political controversy . Keeping in mind this general principle , I will now endeavour to 
examine the three speeches of Shambhu Mahara ). The verbatim reports whereof aro Eds . 
B - 1 , B - 3 , and B -4 . 

In this connection , Mr. Nanávaty for respondent No . 1 urged that all tho three speeches 
read as a whole consist only of a political propaganda with maladministration of the 
country by the Congress regimo, ban on cow slaughter and its pregeny and fast of Jagadguru 
which had also become a part of the political issue of the time and any reference to 
religion and religious and irreligious acts were merely indirect references and brought 
in to emphasize the political propaganda . The reference to the Adesh that is command 
of Jagadguru is a creation of the speaker himself to impress the audience and carry 
conviction to them to accept his appeal. The passages regarding the command of 
Jagadguru and reference to natural calamities should not be read in isolation but should 
be read in conjunction with the theme of the main speech which was political. Ho sub 
mitted that if an examination of the reports of the speeche , this is all that can be said 
about them , then certainly they cannot be the basis of the challenge to the election of 
Tospondent No . 1 . I agree with him that if an examination of these reports, if that is the 
only construction that can be placed on the speoches, the petitioner cannot succeed . 
Keeping in mind this general submission of Mr. Nanavaty , I proceed now to deal with the 
three speeches one after the other . 

The speech at Iqbagadh , report whereof is Ex- B - 1 was made on the 8th of February 
1967 at 14 - 50 hours to 15 . 15 hours. The heading of the report shows that the meeting 
was called under the auspices of the Swatantra Party at Palanpur. It also shows that 
Shri Punambhai Fulabhai Patel was present and loudspeakers were used . Before noting 
down the speech by Shambhu Maharaj, a note is to be found that Shri Punambhai bad 
explained the object of organising the meeting and requestod the people to vote for the 
Swatantra Party and explained the manner in which the votes were to be given . The 
speech of Shambhu Maharaj opens with the remark to the affect that even the best of 
Government can given only means but cannot give happiness . A government may give 


3810 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [ PART II — . 

RSS 
land for cultivation and crops may be grown therçin but frost may fall. A thousand 
rupees may be given for purchase of ox but the ox may die . Then comes the first impugncd 
passage , Its translation is 48 under : --- 

But happiness is given only by God . When religious (duty ) is followed , God 

shows compassion. But the Congress has Annihilated religion ( duty ). Votes 
are claimed on the photo of oxen and living oxen are got slaughtered . In 
Ahmedabad alono ten thousand oxen arc slaughtered in slaughter house . 
Before twenty years one could get a tin of oil at three rupees and twelve 
angas. Sugar was sold fourtech seers a rupee and ghee was sold one and 
three four secrs a rupce . At that time the price of an ox was ono hundred 
rupees. Today an ox is not available at four hundred rupees also . When 
an ox was cheap good cultivation could be done. And as religion (duty ) 
was followed thorc used to be good fertility in land and there used to be 
good produce and so there was no dearness . It is said that the production, 
has decreased and the population has increased and so there is dearness . 
But twenty Brahmins used to cat Ladus (sweets) of one maund. Today 
one hundred and twenty Brahmins eat the said quantity of food . The 
capacity to cat is reduced and there would not be deficit even if the 
population is increased five times. But whero there is wickedness , God will 
not be kind . However much schemes may be framed , tractors may be 
brought but we do not get fruit." 


I may mention that under the order of the Court, official translation of thc speeches are 
put on record but there is dispute as regards the correctness of the translation of certain 
words and sentences . Whcrever it is material, I shall indicate this difference and my 
view as regards what is the correct translation . In this passage , the word Dharma 
appears at two places. The official Translator has translated the word as religion but 
bay also put into brackets the word duty indicating that it may mean duty . Mr. Nanavaty 
urges that the word should be so rcad . Now there can be no doubt that Dharma may 
also mean duty in certain context. But having regard to the trend and tenor of the 
whole speech and the context it which it is used, in my vicw , here it cannot be interpreted 
us duty , I find it difficult particularly in the light of the fact that the word is used in 
context with this sentence : " But the Congress has annihilated religion (Dharma)" . To 
my mind , it would be incongruous to translate it as duty . 

Now in this opening part of the speech by Shambhy Maharaj it is obvious that he 
propounds the philosophy that to make the people happy or unhappy lies in the hands of 
God and not in the hands even of good government. But got would be good when 
religion is followed but Congress has annlihilated religion . Then in the subsequent part 
of this impugncd specch , the speaker mostly dwelt on permitting of slaughter of ox , the 
high price of necessities of life and criticised the ongress for using the symbol of the 
bullocks with yoke on , for canvassing votes for them and at the same time permitting 
slaughter of live bullocks. He said that Government may give tractors etc. and big 
schemes may be framed but all that will be useless for where there is irreligiuosness , God 
will not be kind . In this passage tho word Adharma is translated as wickedness , Mr. 
Nanavaty supports this translation but I think Mr. Daru is right when he urges that horc . 
too the appropriate translation would be irreligiousness . But at the same time reading 

the passays as a whole , as such I. agree with Mr. Nanavaty that it may not amount to 
any .corrupt practice because it touches in the main area when it refers to permitting of 
the slaughter of ox, to happiness and unhappiness and religiousness and irroligiousness , 
the political controversy regarding total ban on cow slaughter and its progeny. It is an 
undisputed fact that at that time such a controversy was raging throughout India including 
this part of the country and that even Shankaracharya of Puri had gone on fast on that 
issuc. It in substance , therefore , amounts to a criticism of the Congress and the Congress 
Government. But the thing to be noted at this stage is that it refers to the fact that whero 
Thero is irreligiousness , God is displcased . By itself again it means nothing. We will 
have however to weigh its effect when the impact of the whole speech and when read 
in context with other impugned speecheg is to be judged . 

. The speaker then criticised strongly the policy of the Congress Government and alleged 
that it has frittered away collosal amount of money in 20 years. Then appeals 
to vote for the Swatantra Paksha and its candidate respondent No. 1. The speaker 
warded the Sarpanchs , the Chairmen of the Co -operative Societies etc . who ho alleged 
have been flottering and running after those in power , to serve their own selfish ends. 
Here again I agree with Mr. Nanavaty that this part of the speech only deals with the 
criticism of Congress Government. 
Then comes the second impugned portion of the speech which is as follows : 
" They have not made our Jagadguru give up his fasts but they have insulted him . 

We have made him give up fasts . So do not be mislead . I have come 


SEC. 3 (1 ) ] TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


3811 


- . 


- 


_ 


- 


- - 


here after undertaking journey of eight thousand miles. I move three 
hundred miles daily . I havo seen that tho Swatantra Party will come and 
the Swatantra Party has givon me promise that it will form thọ Government 
und in its first session the slaughter of the progeny of cow that is cow , ox 
and call will be stopped and the farmers will be exempted from land 
revenue. So I have thought that instead of sending cow -loving brothers to 
Jail by offering Satyagraha thọ rest of sinful congress should be uprooted 
by making propaganda . The price of oil has risen to five rupces . The 
congress has created this position . A thing which can be produced in a 
country should be sold chcap . Those who did not have chappals in their 
foot have got bungalows and motors and still they are not satisfied and 
they have continued to suck blood . If we look from the point of democracy , 
forty crores of people demanded that the cow progeny slaughter should be 
stopped . Still if the Government does not believe it then it is wickedness . 
Cow is a form of goddess of carth and if a cow becomes angry she does 
not give a drop of milk . But if she is satisfied then milk begins to drop 
from her teats. Similarly if Goddess of earth is satisfied then alone thero 
would be furtility and we can get more produce . But the Congress by 
gcltiny votes in the name of oxen to has got living oxen slaughtered and 
followed wickedness and so there is no furtility . These two honest congress 
men should have kept symbol of a butcher and then they should have come 
forward to demand votos and sce how many votes they get . This country 
is robbed for twenty years in the name of Gandhiji. To give vote to this 
congress is to make partnership in their work . If you support some ono 
who wants to put up a watering place or to open a dispensary , you will 
get benediction . But if fire is to be set to a cradle of some one and 
support is given then a sin is committed . Similarly if a vote is given to 
congress it would mean that you give co -operation in slaughtering an ox , 

So you should not become a partner of sin ." 
In this passage also the word Adharma is translated again as wickedness . Here too . 
According to my view , thic correct translation should be irreligiousness . Then the word 
Beiman is translated as two -honest . This is obviously erroneous. The word means 
dishonest . This passage too, in my mind , cannot fall within the view of the alloged 
corrupt practice . The substance of this part of the speech is strong criticism of Congress 
and the policy of Government and not- prohibiting the slaughter of cows and its progeny. 
It is true that he has said that to permit cow - glaguhter is sinful and there of fore to vote 
for congress is to be party to the sinful act . But merely becausc this reference to 
religious aspect in passing is made while criticising the policy of the Government, would 
not by itself make it a corrupt practice . Once again what cffect it can have on the 
overall impact when read with the subsequent part of the speech , I shall discuss a little 
later . But at this stage I do agrco with the submission on behalf of respondent No. 1 
that even the word Pap that is sin , if this passage stands by itself, is to be read 
liberally and may be interpreted that it is not such a sin as would necessarily tako them 
to hell so that it may imply aspiritual threat amounting to corrupt practice . Then follows 
the third impugncd passage which is as follows : 
" Jagadguru observed fasts for 73 days but the Government did not take it into 

consideration . If a maulvi gives a command to Mabomadan brothers that 
if a person is a follower of Islam he should not vote at all for Congress, 
would any Mahomadan vote for Congress ? Then your religious preceptor 
will command you that not a single yote should be given to Congress. 
Why this Manubhai in contesting elections ? Not because he may get 
salary of rupees five hundreds. God is kind to him . It he has dono 
good deods in his previous birth , God shows kindess to him . You have 
got such man in this district. He feels that he should get these people 
free from sin . You give him co -operation . The Congress of Gandhiji was 
bound on truth and non - violence . But these people have done evorything 
contrary to the samo. Formerly when there was famine in the country 
in any particular year double quantity used to grow in the next year and 
there lised to be no deficit. But in this state in one year there is famine 
caused by excessive rain and in the next year if there is no famine due to 
scarcity of rain , there would be grass hoppers and if no grass -hoppers then 
there would be frost. There would be something definitely . I, therefore , 
humbly request you that credulous people may desire to cheat you but they 
are to be annihilated . Power remains in the hands of Congress and if you 
support congress you will become partners of sin and you will bo ruined . 
And tho Swatantra Party whose symbol is Star will save you . I request 
you to make a mark on it. I have come to convey message of Jagadguru ." 


3812 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 Part 1 

= = = -- - - - - - - - -- - . : : - 2 - - ----- - -. . - - 
In this passage the translation is inaccurate at one place where it says " will command 
you " . It should be " commands" . This passage requires careful consideration , The 
speaker here reminds the audience of the fact that Jagadguru that is to say Shankarcharya 
had been fasting for the last 73 days yet Government has not taken it into consideration . 
Then pointedly draws the attention of the listeners to the fact how the followers of another 
religion would bchavo if their religious leader were to give a call. He says that if a 
Maulvi were to give a command to Mahomadans not to vote for the Congress would a 
single Mahomadan ever vote for the Congress ? Immediately follows the statement" 
then your religious precepter also commands that not a single vote should be given to 
the Congress" . For a while the speaker than explains why Manubhai- respondent No. 1 
has decided to contest the election but then revcrts to the subject and tçlls th¢ voters 
how formerly when there was a famine in this country in a particular year, next year 
double the quantity used to grow and there used to be no deficit. But tells the audience 
that in this reginie in one year there is famine Chlscd by cxcessive rain and in the next 
year if there is no faminc duo to scarcity of rain , there is destruction by locusts and if 
no locusts are there , then there is frost. There is something or other definitely happening . 
He therefore appealed to the audience that these people viz ., the Congressmen who were 
trying to chcat the credulous people nilst be annihilatçd . If the congress is supported 
and powr continues to remain in their hands, the voters will become partners in the sin 
and they will be ruined . 1C Swatantra Party is voted whose symbol is thic star , 
it will save them . He winds up this passage by saying that he has come to give the 
message of Jagadguru , 

Mr. Nanavaty contended that this passage also is inocouous. Even when the speaker 
conveyed that Jugadguru is giving the command , the audience was not likely to be 
affected in any way as the audience would immediately doubt the words of the speaker. 
He urged that in these days of quick and scientific modes of communications they would 
expcct Jagadguru to either spcuk on the radio or publish any written appeal or somo 
such method he would adopt if he wanted to comimunicate such a command. He sub 
mitted that thereforc this sort of speech would not have that force which a written appeal 
or personal appeal would make. I find it difficult to agree with Mr. Nanavaty that the 
audience would immediately doubt the words of Shambhu Maharaj because no written 
appeal was made by Shankarcharya or that he had not spoken on the radio . To my mind , 
all depends upon the nature of the audience, the person who is speaking and how it is 
said and in what context it is said . I shall deal with this aspect specifically a littlc later . 
But in my view this passage read by itself or in context with the whole speech does 
fall within the purview of the corrupt practice alleged . As we have noted , in the very 
beginning of the specch the speaker had played up upon the religious sentiments of his 
listerners , by impressing on the mind of his listeners that in this world even the best of 
Government cannot give any happiness and it is God alone who can give happiness . But 
God will never help if religion is not followed . He then pointed out that the Congress 
was not following religion and is committing a sin by not stopping slaughter of cow 
and its progeny. Thus he tried to cast a spell over the mind of the audience , of religious 
beliefs of divine benevolence when religion is followed and divine displeasuro where 
relion is not followed or sin is committed . Then after touching some other topics he 
comes to the portion of the - spcech wherein in the first part he draws the attention 
poictedly to the 73 days long fast of Jagadguru and the apathy of the Government in 
respect thcrcof. Then he whats up the feelings of the Hindu audience by placing the 
challenging question to his listeners that if a Maulvi were to give a call to the 
Mohamadans not to vote for Congress , would a single Mohamadan vote for the Congress . 
This question was posed obviously with the intention to excite fanatism . He then comes 
out with the command of Jagadguru by saying then your religious preceptor also commands 
that not a single vote should be given to the Congress . There is little doubt that the 
speaker incited the religious feelings of the Hindu voters hy telling how the followers of 
the other religion would react to the command of their religious leader and then 
impressing on that the religious leader also command that they should not vote for 
the Congress because Congress was irreligious as it permitted slaughter of cows and its 
progeny and to stop this sin their religious head had gone on fast which was ignored by 
tho Congress Government and therefore the Jagadguru commanded them not to become 
partners in the sin by voting for Congress and returning them to power. This by itself 
accounts to spirtual threat as implicit in this is the threat of divine displeasure or spiritual 
displcasuro if the command of the religious head is not headed to . But what is more 
Important to note is that the speaker does not stop at that. He, after playing upon tho 
minds and religious sentiments of the audience on this aspect went on to rub in further 
the fact that all the natural calamities that befall the country in recent year was the 
consequence of the sinful congress regime. There is a powerful subtle suggestion 
pervading the speech that the calamitles and all the unhappiness they were experiencing 
were not due to any failure of economic policy of Government but they were due to the 
irreligiousness sinful attitude of the Congress Government. Then he directly told them 


Sec. 3 ( il , THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3813 


that if inspite of all this, they were to vote for the Congress , they will be nothing less 
than to be partners in the sin and there will beruination and again cnds up this part of 
his speech by repeating that he had come to convey the message of Jagadguru , Spoken 
at this juncture and in the context of what he said before this , would definitely convey 
to the listerners that all that ho had said was the message of Shankarcharya himself who 
had conveyed to them that God was — displeased because of Congress ; calamities were 
the cosequence of the Congress regime which did not prevent slaughter of cows and its 
progeny and they should not therefore vote for Congress , otherwise they themselves would 
be sinners . Apart therefore from the four of becoming object of divinc displeasure or 
spiritual censure on breaking the command of the religious leader , there was the message 
from that lcader that if they vote for the Congress , they will bring ruination and will 
commit a sin . Thus the voters were directly told that if they were to vote for tho 
Congress, they will render themselves the object of divine displeasure or spiritual censure . 
Under the circunstances , I lind it impossible to accept Mr. Nanavaty s say that the main 
theme in this passage is only a political criticism of the policy of Government on failure 
to enforce total ban on slaughter of cow and its progeny. The shift of emphasis is 
positive and to obvious to bo ignored however liberally the speech may be construcd 
keeping in mind the principles laid down by tho Supreme Court as there was a clear 
inducement to make the voters believe that because of all calamities was the Congress 
regime which was sinful and God was displeased and that therefore their religious head 
commands not to vote for the Congress for to vote for them will be nothing cĮse but 
committing a sin ; that they shall not disobey the command of their Dharamaguru just 
as the Mohomadan would not. It is difficult indeed then to come to the conclusion that 
this would not induce a belief in the listerners that if they were to vote for the congress 
candidate , they will be rendered objects of divine displeasure and spiritual censure . 

But the specch is not yet over. There is onc more impugncd passage to be considered 
and it is as follows: 
" Many people ask me that Congress men are happy and although we are working 

hard we are unhappy . By quoting an instance and giving a lengthy explana 
tion it was said that there wero a goat and a dog at the place of a butcher. 
the butcher used to give good articles of food to the goat but he was not 
giving the same to the dog. So the dog used to feel unhappy. The dog 
was not favoured. But one day the butcher camc with a knife and so tho 
dog felt that the butcher would kill him but the butcher cut the goat. 
Therefore you should not believe that God is kind to congressmen Bakri- Id 
is coming and so we shall take care . But you remember I give you promiso 
that you should kccp full faith in Swatantra Party on 18th instant and you 
should not give your vote to those four obdurate persons who make (people ) 
(Irink liquor and come for votes . To vote for them is to give a knife in the 
hand of a butcher . Shri Jagadguru Shankarcharya , the religious preceptor 
of us, forty crores of Hindus commands that a real Hindu would not give 
a single vote to Congress. We are Hindus and have our culture . We are 
ready to sacrifice ourselves for our religion and so vote is of no value , 
We are not to lose anything in this. I, therefore , humbly request you and 
ensure you that Swatantra Party will do your work and you should voto for 
candidates of Swatantra Party . 


The first part of this passage is innocuous by itself. He only tries by a simile to describe 
the Congressmen and conveys to his audience that their days were not numbered as the 
election was nearby. But then he again returns to make a powerful appeal to his listeners 
majority of whom are proved to be Hindus, in the name of Jagadguru who was, he said , 
the religious head of forty crores of Hindus and who commanded them that no person 
who really believes in Hindu religion should give his vote to the Congress . Then again 
there is an appeal to their religious sentiments by telling them that Hindus have had their 
own culture behind them and Hindus have been always ready to give any sacrifice for 
their religion , so they should not vote for- - Congress. So have again he told the listeners 
in the name of Shankarcharya that as Hindus, he commanded them not to vote for 
Congress . 


As regards the reference to natural calamities in this part of his speech which was 
depicted as a result or effect of the sinful congress regime as it did not ban saughter of 
cow and its progeny, Mr. Nanavaty had a submission to make. He contended that because 
and effect reasoning cannot have any repercussion on the mind of the listeners unless it is 
a statement of fact that is to say the calamitic , as listed by the speaker in his speech had 
as a matter of fact occurred . Otherwise the listeners would put aside this part of the 
speech as a mere tall talk on the part of the speaker . Here too I find myself unable to 
accept the reasoning of the learned Advocate . It may be that there was some exaggeration 
in the statement but there is no doubt that the country had suffered from one or the 


3814 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [PART II 


other calamity in one form or the other in one or the other part of the country and agricul 
ture and its produce had several set backs , in recent years . This appeal was being mado 
by the speaker before the rural population who were hit harder than the urban popula 
tion in this respect, and this reference was bound to make a decpor impression on their 
mind. 


On behalf of the petitioner , relianco was placed on the decision of the High Court 
in Election Petition No. 3 of 1967 wherein the speeches of Shambhu Maharaj in the 
election - - campaign at other places came in for construction by that Court. My attention 
was drawn particularly iwo or three passages with which the Court was concerned in 
that case which are very similar to those in this speech Ex . R - 1 particularly the reference 
to the mandate of Jagadguru Shankarcharya and tho natural calamities and their cause 
and effect and situation in respect thercof. Divan J. who decided that matter has a very 
similar reasoning come to the same conclusion as I have and I may refer with advantago 
to relevant portion . One of the impugned passages there was as follows - - 
" For example , if any maulvi from Macca has fusted for 73 days and bad given 

such a mandate to our Muslim brothers , then would they have voted for the 
Congress . That you have to consider . In the same manner , if Fatch Singh , 
the religious leader of Sikhs, had fasted for 73 days , would they ( Sikhs) 
have voted for the congress ? In tho same manner if there wero parsis or 
Christians , then they also would vote for their religionis preceptor . This is 
what you have to consider . The inandate of your religious preceptor is that 
do not cast your vote for anyone, the mandato of the Jagadguru is that 1st 
cows be slaughtered , 1st bullocks bo slaughtered , In Gujarat Stato though 
there is bani, still bullocks are allowed to be slaughtered ; the bullocks which 
give every individual happiness throughout the lifc . This Government asky 
for vote in the name of the bullocks (the Congress party election symbol 
being a pair of bullocks with yoke on ) and I am , therefore , having an 
experience. Do not vote for the Congress for yoting for the congress and 
by putting the mark of voting on the symbol of bullocks, amounts to 
cutting the throat of a bullock by a knife symoliscd by your vote . It is my 

manudate that you should not do this casierdly act." 
The learned Judge in respect of this passayo has observed that it was to bo remenubered 
that Shambhu Maharaj himself was not the religious leader of any section of the people . 
He himself merely purported to convey to the cloctors the mandate of the - - Jagadguru 
Shankarcharya of Puri. To that extent, Shambhu Maharaj was merely & conduit-pipo 
purporting to convey the message of Jagadguri to the voters but all the same he has 
urged bofore the electors that it was a mandate from the religious leader that they should 
not vote for the Congress Party -candidate . The learned Judge gocs on to say that if tho 
wrods had merely rested with the mandate , then there would have been something to be 
said in favour of the first respondent so far as this particular passage was concerned . 
But the contest in which this mandate was set out, viz ., comparing Hindus with Muslims, 
Sikhs, Parsis and Christians and stating that numbers of other communities would not 
havo disegarded the mandate of their own religious lcaders , if such leaders had fasted 
for 73 days , is very material. That the voters have been asked in tho name of the 
mandate from their religious leader not to vote for the Congress Party . The leamed 
Judge then relied upon Ram Dial s caso ( supra ) and observed that it was clear in his 
mind that in the name of Shankarcharya of Puri in the context of his 
fast for 73 days , an appcal in the name of religion was made by Shambhu Maharaj to the 
blcctors in this meeting, and there was implicit in its divine displeasure or spiritual censuro 
if this particular mandate purporting to come from Shankarcharya of Puri was not to be 
obeyed . The learned Judge has further observed that what was being put forward in 
that particular passage beforo the electors was tho imagined conduct of Muslims, Sikhs , 
Parsis and Christians on the one hand and Hindus as a community on the other Hindus 
Is followers of a particular religion are asked to obey the mandate issued by their own 
Jagadguru , who had fasted for 73 days and in the cause of ban on cow - slaughter and 
against that background it has been stated that voting for the Congress would amount to 
killing cows and bullocks and this act has been referred to as a dastardly act. The 
loarned Judge has therefore emphasized the fact by putting into juxtaposition / the Muslims. 
Sikh9, Parsis and Christians on the one hand obeying the mandate of their religious leaders 
and Hindus on the other. He therefore concluded that there could be no doubt that in 
that passage Shambhu Maharaj had put forward an appeal to the olectory not to vote for 
the Congress Party in the name of the religion and secondly though there may not be any 
throat of divine displeasure in this passage in expressing terms, implicit in it was the 
threat that those who did not obey the mandate of Jagadguru would be incurring spiritual 
consure or divine displeasure . 

Mr. Nanavaty argued that the command of Jagadguru cannot have any effect oven 
if spokon by Shambhu Maharaj unless it is proved that as a matter of fact such a mandato 


# ? (1 ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3815 


was given by him and that Shambhu Maharaj was authorised to convey that candidato. 
I am not able to accept this submission of Mr. Nagavaty . What we aro concorned with 
is to see the impact of these statements falling from the mouth of Shambhu Maharaj 
before his audience . The actual truth of what ho said has hardly any place in determining 
whether Shanıbhu Maharaj had induced or attempted to induce the specific belief. Mr. 
Nanavaty had however reasoned that Divan J . came to the conclusion that he did because 
he had actually assumed that the mandate in fact was given and Shambhu Maharaj was 
authorised to convey that message . He pointed out that the learned Judge has said that 
Shumbhu Maharaj was merely a conduit pipe which necessarily implied that there was in 
fact the mandato and therefore something which existed passed through Shambhu 
Maharaj who acted as a conduit pipe. I am unable to read any such implication 
in the said observations of the Icarned Judge. Reading this passage carefully , on the 
contrary , I find that the learned Judge has advisedly used the words " purporting to 
convey the message" of Jagadguru to the voters " immediately in context with the 
expression conduit pipe " . Again even carlior , he has said " Ho (Shambhu Maharaj) himacll 
merely purported to convey to the electors the mandate of Jagadguru Shankarcharya " and 
cven latter again we find the words " if this particular mandate purporting to come from 
Shankaracharya of Puri were not to be obeyed ” . Reading the passage as a whole therefore 
the impression that is carried in my mind is that tho learned Judge only meant to say 
that when the purported message of Shankaracharya was placed before the audience, though 
Shambhu Maharaj was not himself a religious leader, this act of his whereby ho purported 
to convey the mandato of Shankaracharya, it was sufficient to impress the audience that 
a mandate by Shankaracharya was given . By the use of the word " conduit pipe I think 
he only wants to convey that Shambhu Maharaj appcared to be a conduit pipe through 
whom the message was delivered to the listeners I regret, thercfore , that I am not able 
to accept this submission of Mr. Nanavaty . 


The second passage with which Divan J. was concerned is as follows : 
" The Congress says that it has brought happiness and will give happiness in future ; 

but even a father cannot give happinçss to his son , nor can a son give 
happiness to his father . Giving happiness Tests in the hands of God , But 
God gives happiness where there is religion , He does not give happiness to 
the irreligious, 


Formerly there were no famines . Possibly once in 100 years there might 
be one famine. As against that now - a -days overy year there is some natural 
calamity like a famine. Either there is no rain or there is frost or there 
is visitation of locusts or there is some disease in the crops and somo 
calamity or the other is constantly visiting us . The reason for this is that 
Congress permits slaughter of 33 , 000 bullocks everyday. When slaughter 
of cows is banned , bullocks are allowed to be slaughtered . In Gujarat 
12 , 000 bullocks are being slaughtered ," 


As regards this passage, the Icarncd Judge found that a calise add effect relationship 
between the natural calamitics on the one hand and the slaughter of cows and bullocks 
which was permitted by the Congress Government on tho other had been put forward 
before the voter s by Shambhu Maharaj. The listeners were informed in clear terms that 
the natural calamitics like famine , frost, visitation of locusts or disease in crops wero all 
due to the perniission for slaughtering of cows and bullocks granted by the Congress 
Party . Thus the voters were told that natural calamities , which visit only the irreligious. 
warê due to the action of the Congress Party in permitting the said slaughter and then 
the voters were asked not to vote for the congress but to vote for the Swatantra Party 
candidate . Various other topics regarding economics, agriculture and politics were dis 
cussed in tho course of his spcech but the direct causal relationship between the cow 
slaughter and the natural calamities clearly shows that the voters were told that if they 
did not want such natural calamities to visit them , they should not vote for the Congress 
Party and thus avoid the divine displeasure , which was responsible for those natural 
calamities. The learned Judge has also observed that in the beginning the voters were 
told that happiness could come only from God and God could give happiness to the 
rcligious and not to the irreligious. Within a short time thereafter, a reference to natural 
calamities was made and they were told that thoy were all due to cow - slaughter being 
granted by the Congress Party. He came to the conclusion that reading those passage 
together, there could be no doubt that the electors were told not to vote for the Congress 
Party and in order to secure their happiness as religious minded people and to avoid 
being irreligious, not to vote for the Congress Party but to vote for the Swatantra Paksha . 
The Reading of the two passages together , would only seen that they amounted to 
interferonce with the ex frec exorciso of the cloctoral right of the voters by holding 
out threats and divinę displeasure and spiritual censure . 


3816 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/ BHADRA 2 , 1890 


(Pari U 


The last passage in the said case was as follows :-- - 
" The time of election has arrived . The Congress Party is carrying on its propa 

ganda desparately but what I want to say is that if Swatantra Party comes 
into power then it will not turn your roof -tiles into gold . Only God gives 
happiness . There is frost, there is rust in the cropg, there is cxcess of 
rains, there is a famine all there are due to the workings of God . Everyday 
twenty - four crores of cows are being slaughtered , then how God will tole 
rate that and how will you get happiness ? 


Look at the 


Congressmen who 


are destroyers 


of 


Hindu Religion ; 


={c 


Every year we get one or the other natural calamity like excessive rain , or 
failure of rain or earthquake. This happened because they ask for votes in 
the name of live bullocks, whereas they get the bullocks slaughtered . The 
symbol should be of butcher and except ruthless and hard -hearted Coagress , 

nobody else will get bullocks slaughtered ." 
In respect of this passage , the learned Judge s reasoning was that reading the first and 
the third parts of this passago , it was clear that Shambhu Maharaj was putting before 
the audience the cause and effect relationship between the natural calamities and the 
displeasure of God because of the large number of cows being slaughtered in the country , 
For the reasons that the learned Judge adopted for second passage to which I have made 
reference, he came to the conclusion that this also amounted to corrupt practice under 
section 123( 2 ), proviso ( a ) (ii) of the Act. These observations of the Icarned Judge on 
these three passages fully support the view I have taken on the passages almost similar 
in wording on a similar reasoning . 

It was Mr. Nanavaty s contention that before a mandate can be said to have any cffect 
or to induce a belief of the impugned nature , it must be shown that the audience was of 
such a character as could be said to be the followers of Shankaracharya who believed 
that he was their religious bead or that they consisted of persons as would accept as 
true all that was said by Shambhu Maharaj. It was argued that there was no evidence 
that the people of these localities believed Shankaracharya to be their religious head nor 
was there any cvidence to show that Shambhu Maharaj was persona grata with the 
people of these places where these three speeches were made . The stand that Shankara 
charya is not shown to have been accepted as their religious head by the people of these 
places was taken for the first time on hehalf of respondent No. 1 at the time of the 
arguinents . In the specches of Shambhu Maharaj, passages whereof have been 
incorporated in the petition , it is afflrmed that he was the religious head of the Hindus 
numbering not less than forty crores . The respondent No. 1 does not seem to have 
demurred by even suggested in his long detailed written statement that Shankaracharya 
was not believed to be the religious leader of Hindus by the people of those localities . 
On the contrary when the additional written statement was filed after the last amendment 
of the petition was allowed , we find the following averments therein ; that “ The petitioner 
hay pot shown or even alleged that Shankaracharya had in fact conveyed any niessage 
or mandate to the audience through Shambhu Maharaj at the several places where 
Shambhu Maharaj is alleged to have spoken " . Further on it has also been mentioned 
that it was the submission of the respondent in the alternative that unless Shankaracharya 
had himself given any mandate or message to Hindus or unless the person who speaks 
in the name of Shankaracharya or purports to convey any message or mandate from 
Shankaracharya discloses any due authority from Shankaracharya to the audience to whom 
he is addressing the alleged message or mandate of Shankaracharya as conveyed by the 
speaker cannot solve cause any effect on the voters so as to take away their frecdom 
of choice of candidate . Further as it is said that is is not shown by the petitioner nor 
is alleged that Shankaracharya of Puri besides undertaking fast demanding complete 
han on cow -slaughter and slaughter of milch cattle had made any public statement or 
had in any manner exhorted voters not to vote for Congress candidates at the general 
election It is then stated that it was therefore improbable - - that if the audience which 
was addressed at several places by Shambhu Maharaj would take it that there was a 
mandate or message from Shankaracharya to them not to vote for Congress, when Shankara 
charya himself had not issued any such public statement at any time before the election . 
Implicite in these statements and reasoning is the fact that it was not contended that 
Shankaracharya was the religious leader of the Hindus and the only contention was that 
it was not shown that this religious leader had as a matter of fact issued such a mandate 
and alternatively that unless such a mandate or message was given personally by Shankara 
charya , it cannot have the alleged effect. But apart from that as I shall point out, under 
the facts of the present case , it would not be necessary even to prove as an established fact 
that the listeners were actually the followers of Shankaracharya . 


SK 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2. 1890 


3817 


As regards Shambhu Maharaj, it is true that he was got any religious leader as such , 
But there is evidence to show that họ is Kirtankar of reputo , that he is well known for his 
Bhagvat Saptahs. Tho evidence has disclosed that he was a respected person and was 
connected with the propagation of theology of Hindu Religion . His speeches would also 
indicato that he was in yood demand for Bhagvat Saptah . It is true that contents of the 
speeches themselves where the speaker says something about himself may not be evidence 
by itself but it may indicate that the witnesses of the petitioner when they said that he is 
a religious minded person and well respected , there is no reason to disbelieve them on that 
point. - Witness No. 10 for the Pctitioner — Ganeshbhai Jathabhai Patel has said that he was 
working for the Swatantra Paksha during the clection period ; Punambhai had ontsusted 
him with the work of carrying on propaganda for Manubbai in Cadh Circle . Ho had 
suggested to Punambhui that the voters in that locality wero uneducated and they had 
deep belict in religion . Therefore it would help in the propaganda for securiny voter if 
a meeting was held in that locality wherein Shambhu Maharaj cane and aduresscil the 
meeting, and therefore Punambhai had arranged a meeting on the 9th of February 1967 at 
Cadh in which Shambhu Maharaj had delivered his speech . In cross -examination this 
witness has said that lie had heard Shambhu Maharaj twice or thrice at Palanpur. Now 
it is true that Punambhai has denied haviny had a talk with Ganeshbhai during the period 
of the election . But he admitted that he had met him after the clection . He was not 
prepared to deny straightway the claim of Ganeshbhai but he had worked for tho 
Swatantra Paksha during the election and hc merely said that he did not know whether 
bę did the propaganda work on behalf of the Swatantra Paksha or not because he had not 
gonc to Doosa assembly constitucncy. He denied that Ganeshbhai had made any sugges 
tion for calling Shambhu Maharaj. Even as regards the mçeting at Cadh , in cross -examina 
tion Punambhai said , ho did not remember whether on the 9th there was a meeting at 
Cadh or not. In tho light of the fact that this witness Ganeshbhai has changed his affinity 
and had worked for tho congress after the election , in the Panchayat election , he cannot bo 
said to be an independent witness . But so is Punambhai not an independent witness , 
and here there are circumstances which make no accept Ganeshbhai s cvidence of Punam 
bhai. Punambhai s evidence on the point is not such as inspires confidence. Panambhai 
had also tried in the beginning to suggest in his cvidence - - that ho had never arranged any 
meetings of Shambhu Maharaj but then subsequently had to admit that he had instructed 
the Swatantra Paksha – Palanpur that if Gauvadh Andolan Samiti is desirous of holding 
meetings of Shambhu Maharaj, then facilities for holding such mectings should be givon . 
He said that he did not remember whether before the 8th and 9th of February and after 
14th of January , any meetings of Shambhu Maharaj were hell in this arca or not. But 
then he remembers that on the 26th of January a meeting of Shambhu Maouraj wag 
arranged at Tharad by the Swatantra Paksha and he had published a pamphlet for calling 
this meeting under his signature as the organişor of the Swatantra Paksha . Then again 
he ovaded the question and said that he did not remember whether he had arranged with 
Shambhu Maharaj to come and speak in tho meeting at Vav and Thurad and other meet 
ings for the 8th and 9th of February . But he did admit later that he had - accompanied 
Shambhu Maharaj at Dhima and that he had also gone to the meetings of Iqbalgadh , 
Amirgadh and Vav. He said that it was not true that in the mectings in which he was 
present, Shambhu Maharaj had appealed to the voters to vote for respondent No. 1. Now 
this is obviously inconsistent with the reports of the meotings to which I have already 
referred to . This is the nature of the evidence of Punambhai. In his evidence , he has 
not tried to suggest at all that Shambhu Maharaj was persona gruta with the people or 
his words would not be accepted as truc statements or that when in his presence Shambhu 
Maharaj said that there was a mandate from Shankaracharya , it was not likely to be 
believed to be true. At this stage it would not be out of place to consider the question 
of burden of proof. There can be no doubt whatever that the burden of proving- - corrupt 
practice is all through -out on the petitioner who alleges that the corrupt practice has been 
committed . But the burden so stated is the legal burden of proof. But the phrase burden 
of proof" has two distinct meanings viz . (i) the burden of proof" as a matter of adducing 
evidence and in its second meaning it keeps shifting from shoulder to shoulder as the 
evidence is led in a given case . vide Sheopal Singh v . Ram Pratap , AJ. R . 1956 
S . C . 677. Here to my mind , so far as this aspect of the case is concerned , the petitioner 
has led evidence on the record to show that Shambhu Maharaj was a man - - respected and 
ho was a person who had his activities mostly connected with the Hindu religion and a man 
of repute. I feel all the more convinced, hecause Shambhu Maharaj appears to have been 
considered even bv Punambhai and the Swatantra Paksha as a matter of fact, to be a person 
whose word would carrying weight with the electorate of that part. It is true that Punambhai 
has tried to suggest that the meetings of Shambhu Maharaj on the 8th and 9th were not 
arranged by the Swatantra Paksha but were arranged by Gauvadh Andolan Samiti. All through 
out this proceeding, there is no such suggestion to any of the witnesses of the petitioner 
por has any such stand been taken in the written statement, I am inclined to think that 


3818 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


Pari II - 


this is put forward for the first time in order to escape liability . But even then he had 
to admit that he himself was a member of that Samiti and he had actually instructed the 
Swatantra Paksha to give all convenience and help to hold meetings of Shambhu Maharaj 
if such help was asked for by the Gauvadh Andolan Samiti. As already pointed out, ho 
himself was the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha . Not only that but there is also the 
evidence , as already pointed out, that on the 26th of January, actually a pamphlet was 
published by him as the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha for holding the meeting of 
Shambhu Maharaj. Under the circumstances , I am not prepared to accept the statement 
of - - Pupambhal that the meetings of 8th and 9th were not arranged by him as the organiser 
of the Swatantra Paksha. This indicates that the Swatantra Paksha did think that Shainbhu 
Maharaj was a spoaker whose word carried weight with the listeners of the locality and would 
help in swaying the mind of the electorate in favour of respondent No. 1 and the candidates 
of the Swatantra Paksha. 


While I am considering this question as regards the effect of the impact of the speech 
of Shambhu Maharaj and tho status of Shankaracharya and Shambhu Maharaj, one of the 
facts to be taken into account is the kind of character of voters beforo whom speeches were 
made. It is true as was held in VII Guj. L . R . 753 (supra ) the character of the audienco 
cannot be considered to be a condition precedent to the determination of tho qucation as 
to whether a corrupt practice alleged has been committed or not . But as pointed out in 
that case , under certain facts and circumstances , it is a relevant factor to be taken into 
account while judging the issue. In the present case , the petitioner has produced the last 
census report of the year 1961. He has also produced certain extracts in English from 
that report. Mr. Nanavaty fairly did not object to its production . This census report in 
dicates that in the localities where the speeches were made, the percentage of population 
of the Hindus is almost 90 per cent. It also shows that out of the percentage of total 
population in the rural arca is 6 .68 per cent is of the Scheduled Tribes . As regards 
literacy we find that in Palanpur rural area the per centage is 14 .92 per cent in Vav , 
Thorad and Radhanpur area it is 7 .64, 6 . 96 and 6 .77 — respectively . It is true that as this 
census report is of 1961, thereafter some changes must have taken place but oven giving a 
fuir margin for the changes , it can bo seen that the majority of population in the locality 
is of the Hindus ; that there are Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes peopla in the rural 
arca and that percntago of literacy is very low . Witnesses of the petitioner have given 
some idca about the types of persons who attended the meetings. They said most of them 
were Hindus and Punambhai has conceded that in the areas where speeches of Shambhu 
Maharaj were held , majority of the population is of Hindus. The evidence on the part of 
the petitioner also shows that most of the persons who attonded those meetings were Adi 
vasis or Rabaris. But even if this oral evidence is not given much weight, the official 
record that I have mentioned does indicate the character of the persons of the locality who 
must have attended the meetings. The impact of the speeches, therefore, on the mind of 
such auidences has to be judged . The petitioner s witnesses have also suggested that people 
in the locality were religious minded. But even this aspect may not be taken into consi 
deration . To iny mind , under the facts and circumstances of this case and having regard 
to the character of the voters to whom Shambhu Maharaj had addressed , even though thero 
may be no direct evidence to show that the listeners were actual followers of Shankara 
charya , or that there is no direct mandate of the Shankaracharya, the speeches must be held 
to have had the tendency to make Hinduş yoters having ordinary religious beliefs of tho 
Hindus , to believe that if they were to contraveno the command of Jagadguru , they would 
be betraying their religious leader particularly in view of the fact that he had staked his 
life in the cause of prevention of slaughter of cow and its progeny which to mind has come 
religious significance to the Hindus . It would also appear to his listeners that they will 
commit a sin if they voted for the congrçsg which would render them objects of divine dis 
plçasure bringing in its wake ruination . They may also have the foreboding that they may 
have to suffer more natural calamities if they were to vote for the Congress, as the sinful 
congress regime was said to be the cause of the natural calamities they have had to 
undergo . In this respect, I may again refer to the case of VII Guj. L . R . P . 753 (supra ) 
wherein it is observed that the matter is also not to be tested from the point of view of a 
highly intelligent and — sophisticated voter . It has necessarily to be tested from the point 
of view of an ordinary voter, subject to be swayed , specially if an appeal happens to bo 
made by a religious leader by motions of his future spiritual welfare or ultimate Salvation . 
Similar is the view taken by Divan . J. in Election Petition No. 3 of 1967 (supra ). 


Mr. Nanyaty then urged that in the decision of Ram Dial v, Sant Lal and others (supra ) 
the Supreme Court is directly dealing with the case of the alleged corrupt practice under pro 
viso ( a ) ( li ) of section 123 ( 2 ) and therefore it is not possible in the present case to any even 
though it may have been possible to say in VII Guj. J. R . 753 that the ratio of the decision 
was not that tho words the religious head used in a document, or uttered in his speeches 


SH 3 ( ii ) IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968/ BHDRA 2, 159c 


389 


would amount to corrupt practico only if they leave no choice to the persons addressed by 
him , in thc cxercise of thcir electoral rights. Thereforo , unless the appeal is of such 
.8 charactor as leaves no choice to the persons addressed by him to the exercise of their 
cloctoral right, it would pot amount to corrupt practice . Assuming for argument s sako 
that the said proposition is the ratio of that Supreme Court decision and is applicable to 
the present caso , even then to my mind, the present speech cannot escape falling within the 
purview of that ratio . As pointed out the audience consisted of the rural population of 
tho Hindus unsophisticated backward class people most of them illiterate and the effect of 
the speech as indicated was three fold ( 1) that their religious head had commanded them 
not to voto and contravention thereof would amount to betrayal of their religious head , 
( ii ) that the mandate of the religious head was that it would be a sin to vote for congress 
which would bring ruination , as the congress was irreligious and sinful and ( iii) that they 
should not vote for Congress because if they did , they will commit a sin which would visit 
them with further calamities. All this would have at least the tendency to induce the votors 
to believe that if they did vote for the Congress, they will be rendered objects of divine 
displeasure or spiritual censure . There can be hardly any better case where it can be said 
that the voters were left with no choice but to vote for the Swatantra Party candidate and 
aot to voto for the Congress Party candidate . 

I will now deal with the two other speeches made by Shambhu Maharaj. I do not 
propose to deal with these two speeches in details as the pattern and tone thereof are similar 
to the one in Ex . B - 1. I have examined the impugned passages, keeping in mind the 
principle that they aro to be judged in the setting of the whole speeches I found that they 
stand on the same basis as those alrcady considered at same length appearing in report 
Ex, B - 1 . In the speech Ex . B - 3 made at Amirgarh soon after he opened his speech , 
Shambhu Maharaj has said that ho had como to give the mandate of Jagadguru . A little 
thereafter follows tho impugned passage which is as follows : 
" You yourself may say who has killed Gandhiji, these congressmen or Godsc ? Sud 

riscs and twenty two thousand cows arc slaughtered . In countries like Pakig 
tan and Afganistan the cow -slaughter is prohibited . In Madhya Pradesh ox 
slaughtering is prohibited before ten days. When I observed fast four hundred 
Mohammadan brothers had observed fast with us . The Swatantra Party gave 
me promise that after the Swatantra Party comes to power an ordinance will 
be issued by the Governor in its first session and slaughtering of cow - progeny 
will be exempted . So I stopped civil disobedience and I have started to 
awaken the people. In Ahmedabad there is prohibition on cow -slaughter but 

the slaughtering of calf and ox is - continuçd . The earth took the form of cow 
and if the said Gaumata or ox is slaughtered how can the earth be satisfied 
and as long as the earth is not satisfied how can there be fortility in the 

earth ? " 
In my judgment, this passage by itself cannot be held to fall within the vice of section 
123( 2 ) proviso (a ) (ii) of the Act. The second passage is as follows: 

To compare congress with Ravan is to defame bim . Ono Hajrat Bal was removed 

and it was required to be brought in four days . Sant Fatehsingh observed fasts 
and the Government had to bow down in nine days. The Government bow s 
down before those who take out ‘Kirpan (chisel) and when we pray with 
folded hands it mocks at us . In foreign couptries Hindus are put to shame. 
People spit at Hindus and they pass bitter remarks and say Brave to five 
crores Mohammadan -brothers that they brought Hairat Bal. Brave to forty laos 
Sikhs that they have taken Chandigarh and fie to your forty crores Hindus tbat 
the religious -preceptor is required to observe fasts for seventy days and suffer 
torments and still the Government does not listen . When the Lord Bishop 
came to Bombay these leaders had gone to wash his feet. For the sake of 
Dalailama cnmity is created with China and when the religious prccepter 

of its own country observes fasts for 73 days no bristle of Government 
moves. Out of forty crores may have fallen and over ten crore 
Bahuchraji may have shown favour but Jagadguru must have this much conf 
dence that twenty crores bravo Hindus aro his supporters. They will act 
according to my command. Guru Govind Singh had said " Death is certain 
then why not die properly , that is not to sat Shria (sweets) and puri and 
then die but it is a matter of becoming immortal by dying for Gaumata 

( cow ) and for mother land." 
In this passage the speaker has referred to the loss of Hazrat Bal and its recovery within 
four days and thon to the fact of Sant Fatehsingh and Government yielding to the pressurc 
of that fast. Then to pointed out the fact that in foreign countries , Hindus were put to 


3820 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART II. 


- 


: 


- 


- - 


shame and people pass bitter remarks. While prasing the Mohammadans and the Sikhs 
he criticised the Hindus that their religious -preceptor should havo been forced to observa 
a fast for Seventy days and Suller torments and the colousness of the Governrneut 
about it. Then he refers to the fact that Jugudguru at least must be having this much con 
fidence in at least twenty crores of Hindus who are his supporters that they will act accord 
ing to his command. Now this passage cannot by itself be held to contraveno tho relevant 
provisions of law . But this reference to the mandate from Jagadguru referred to in the 
manner hereabove will have to be considered later in context with the other impugned . 
passages . The third impugned passage is as follows: - -- 
" In the year 1942 sixteen lacs and in 1946 twenty four lacs and in 1947 after India 

became separate and at present about ono crore cows are slaughtered . 
You say whether to voto for Congress is to become partner in sin or any thing 
else . If you give cooperation for good cause you may get good fruit and if 
you cooperate in committing a sin you become partners of sin . Why you 
become a partner of sin by giving voles to Congress ? I have travelled cight 
thousand miles and I am satisfied that the Swatantra Party is going to form 
Government. Our religious preceptor has issued a command that the Con 
gress Government have insulted forty crores of Hindus and therefore they 
should do such a thing that the Congress candidates even forfeit their 
deposit and they should not vote for Congress as they would also become 
partners in the sin if they were to do so . Reading the two passages together 
therefore there is a clear transagression of the provisions of section 123(2 ) 
(i ) as I have alrcady discussed . 


In his speech at Vav which is Ex . B - 4 the first impugncd passage is as follows : 
" Any best Government or Institution can give you means but God alone gives 

happiness . A Government may give you 100 bighas land for doing cultivation 
and give you loan for purchasing oxen . If you have cultivated 100 bighas 
cotton and hard frost falls then ? And if whcat is cultivated and the red chalk 
falls then ? If good ox is bought and he dics then ? I, therefore , say that Gov 
trnment can give means but happiness can be given by God alone. And with 
out the grace of God there cannot be happiness. You can get favour from 
God when religion is acted upon . Do you feel that congress has allowed 
religion to remain ? At present it is asking for votes on tho symbol of Ox . 
The same Congress gives , permit to Slaughter 9060 oxen every year in the 
slaughter house at Ahmedabad . If there is any congressman hero he may be 
called . And if Shantilal Shah or G . G . Mehta says that the said statement is 
false I shall close the propaganda ." 


In this passage the spoaker has merely expounded the philosophy as he had done in the 
case of his speech at Iqbalgadh that God alone can give happiness and not even the best 
Government which can only pive many but not happiness and that God will only give 
happiness or favour persons where rcligion is followed . He then posed the question 
whether they felt that Congress had allowed the religion to remain . then he answered by 
saying that it cannot be so said because Congress Government was allowing cow -slaughter 
and slaughter off its progeny by the thousanals . This aspect I have considered while deal 
Ing with the first specch and I need not repeat. The second impugned part of that speech 
is as follows : 
" This Congress his taken away money, land , Gold everything from us. But when 

the talk of taking away religion which is a means to get heaven to improve tho 
other world took place Jagadguru required to observed fasts . When one 
Hazrat Bal was removed to Kashmir it was required to be brought and placed 
again in four days . Sant Fatchsingh observed fasts and the Government bowed 
down on the ninth day . Peoplo believing in Hazrat Bal keep knife . The 
followers of Fatchsingh keep chisel. There Government shiver. And when we 
make demands with folded hands it mocks at u9. The Government has not 
made Jagadguru give up his fasts but we have made him givo up the fasts so 
do not be mislead . Those people become hot excited soon and become calm 
also soon . Wo have not become hot (excited ) and when we become hot 
(excited ) we do not become calm soon. And when forest falls the roots of 
trces also get burnt. The people do not know it. These people have insulted 
us. And the students living in foreign countries writo in letters that we are 
insulted have people spit at us and say " Brave to five -crores Mohammadans that 
in four days Hazrat Bal was brought. Brave to 40 lacs Sikhs who have taken 
Chandigarh and fie to you . Hindus , that Jagadguru of 40 crores of Hindus in 
required to observe fasts for 73 days and die with torture . Whon Maulvi 


SiC 201Y THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3821 


must have issued a command and Sant Fatesingh must have started a fast they 
must have been assured that their followers would not allow them to die . 
Similarly when our Jagadguru must have started fasts he must also have 
thought that out of 40 crores of Hindus who arc living in India 10 crores muy 
have fallen on account of coming in contact with congress and on 10 crores 
thcro may have been grucc of Bahucharaji but the remaining 20 crorey are my 
brave Hindus . Must he have such assurance or not ? On the 18th cut the nose 
of this Congress und do such thing that their deposit may be forfcited and their 

boxçs mayto empty ." 
In this passage he has referred to the Hazrat Bal, its recovery and fast by Sant Fateh 
ogh and Goveroment having ignored the fast of Jagadguru . Then he referred to the fast 
that when Maulvi must have issued a Command , and Sant Fatehsingh started the fast, they 
must have been assured that their followers would not allow them to dic and then he told 
his listeners that similarly when Jagadguru must havc fasted , he must have at least thought 
that out of 40 crores of Hindus at least 30 crores were his brave followers. Then again 
he put a question : should he have such an assurance or not ? And then called upon 
who voters not to vote for the Congress . Then the third paşsage is as follows : 
" In Pakistan and Afghanistan cow slaughter is prohibited while these people hava 

made an agreement to send six thousand tons mutton to foreign country . 
They want to get living or slaughtered and they demand vote on the photo of 
ox. If there is honesty in congress it should keep the photo of a butcher and 
keep a knife in the hand and say we shall thus slaughter and then ask for 
vote . Your heart burns when any ono tears of the poster having the photo 
of ox then would our heart not burn when living oxen are killed ? The 
Swatantra Party has given me promise before five days that if it comes in . 
power the slaughtering of cow - progeny will be prohibited by an ordinance of 
a Governor in the first session and the land revenue of the farmers will be 

exempted . Therefore your work is to defeat this congress." 
There is nothing which in this passage and hence no comments are necessary . The 
fourth passage is as follows : 
" If a Maulvi from Mucca or the Chief preceptor of Parsis , Mulla , or the Lord Pope 

sitting in Europe observes fasts for seventy days interest of his followers for 
some problem and issues a command that any Islam Pachcho ( follower of 
Islam ) Parşi or Christian shall not vote for Congress , you yourself may say 
would any one vote for Congress . So , because a Mohommadan has remained 
2 Mohommandan , a Parsi hus remained a parsi. Then have yoll cased to be 
Hindus? I have come to deliver a message of our Jagadguru to you that you 

should not give a single vote to Congress." 
Here again the speaker has put Hindu community , it juxtaposition with the other 
communitics like Muslims, Christian and Parsi and said if a Maulvis from Mucca or the 
Chief Preceptor of Parsis or the Pope sitting to Europe were to fast in the interest of his 
followers and were to issue a command that they should not vote for the congress , would 
they have voted for the Congress ? And he answered , that they would not because 
Mohommadans have remained Mohommadans, Parsis have remaineci Parsis and the speaker 
then asked the challenging question to his listeners whether they had ceased to be Hindus . 
Ininaediately then he told them that he has come to deliver the message of Jagadguru that 
a single vote should not be given to the Congress. This passaged read by itself and 
even read in context with the whole speech , would amount to corrupt practice for reasons 
that I have mentioned wliile denling with the first speech the fifth passage is as follows: - - 
" I, therefore , humbly request you to let go Congress boxes empty . To vote for con 

press is to get the slaughtering continued and to move a knife over the throat 
of an ox, To vote for congress is to become a partner of sin . If they want 

to sit in the chair they may sit. When you should become a partner of sin ?" 
Here he has referred to the aspect of sin if they were to give vote to Congress . This 
passage also read to the context of the whole speech would amount to corrupt practice for 
rensong that I have stated . The last passage is as follows : 
“ By giving an instance he has said that the earth had taken form of a cow and 

Filigion had taken form of ox . So when an ox is being killed how can earth 
remain satisfied ? Then you may bring tractors or fraze schemes. By the 
arer of God if a farmer draws a linc even then there would be good produce . 
Thay had gone to Bomhav to wash feet of Pope. For the sake of Dalajlama 
ermite is created with China but when Shri Jagadguru of 40 Crores of Hindus 

observed fasts no bristles of this Government even moved " . 


3822 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


[PART JI - - 


This passage, to my mind , cannot fall with the mischief of the relevant provisions of 
Jaw . The only main difference to be seen between these two speeches and the one made 
at Iqbalgadh Ex. B - 1 is that there is no reference in either of these two speeches to the 
befalling of natural calamitics as a result of the sinful congress regime. It is true that in 
the speech at Amirgadh the speaker is least offensive but there also , as I have pointed 
out, in one of the passages he has transgressed the limit permitted in law , So far as the 
speech at Vav is concerned , except the reference to natural calamitics it is almost as 
offensive as the speech at Iqbalgadh . 

It is important to note that law , even makes an attempt to induce the offending belief 
in the electorate , a corrupt practice . It is well-established now that though physically or 
Legally it may not be possible to commit a particular offence , yet a person can be guilty 
of the attempt to commit such as offence . In Bashirbhai v . State of Bombay 62 Bom . 
L . R . 906 it has been laid down that in a prosecution for the offenco of an attempt to 
cheat, the fact that the excused had failed in his attempt to irrelevant in considering 
whether he had committed the offenco of attempting to cheat. In the said case it was 
argued that thero was no attempt to chcut becaugo the complainant had not been deceived . 
But the learned Judges observed that it was true that the complaint had not been taken 
in . He had not believed that the accused could actually duplicate currency notes . He 
faigned belief only in order to trap the accused . That , however , made no differences 49 
far as an attempt to cheat was concerned . That they had failed in their attempt was 
irrelevant in considering whether they had committed the offence of attempting to cheat 
Their Lordships referred with approval, the following observations made in Government 
of Bengal v . Umash I.LR . 16 Calcutta , 310 . 
" A man may attempt to cheat although the person he attempts to cheat is forwarnod , 

and is therefore not cheated ." 


Jo Aegarali Pradhania v . Emperor the same principle is reaffirmed . In the said 
decision the word - attempt has been interpreted and after examining a number of deci 
sions, they laid down that so far the law in India is concerned , it beyond dispute that 
thçre aro four stages to every crime, the intention to commit, the preparation to commit, 
the attempt to commit and if the third stage is successful the commission itself. While 
considering this aspact, they have given an illustration that if a man thrusts his hand 
into the pocket of another with intent to steal, he does an act towards the commission of 
the offence of stealing though unknown to him the pocket is empty. He tries to steal, 
but is frustrated by a fact, namely the emptiness of the pocket, which is not in any way 
due to any act or — his part. He does an act towards the commission of the offcnce of 
pocket picking, by thrusting his hand into the pocket of another with intent to steal, 
Novertheless he may be convicted of an attempt to steal. Applying this principle to the 
offence of corrupt practice which prohibits inducing the belief in the clectorate that they 
shall be rendered objects of divine displcasure or spiritual censure even if it is held that 
it was not possible for any person to actually induco such a belief in a given audience 
under given circumstances , he would still be guilty of attempt to commit the offence. 
Having regard to all the facts and circumstances that I have already discussed , in my 
judgment, the making of these specches cannot in any event escape falling within the 
clutches of " an attempt . Therefore , to my mind for the reasons that I have at length 
given while dealing with the first speech . I am satisfied that these two speeches also con : 
travene the provisions of law . There is no doubt that the speaker has in these throe 
speeches referred to a number of topics which may not fall within the purview of the re 
levant provisions of law . But keeping in mind all the principles which law has laid down 
to be kept in mind in judging such election speeches , I feel satisfied that Shambhu Maharaj 
did commit the corrupt practico at these three places by delivering those speeches which 
fall within the purview of section 123 ( 2 ) proviso (a ) (ii ) of the Act. 


Before ap election of a returned candidate can be declared to be void under section 
100 of the Act on the ground of commission of a corrupt practice the Court has not only 
to be satisfied that such corrupt practice alleged has been committed but has also to be 
satisfied that it has been committed by the returned candidate or his election agent or 
any other person with the consent of the candidate or the election agent. In this case , 
the only allegation is that Shambhu Maharaj committed the corrupt practice with the con 
sent of the respondent No. 1 and / or his olection agent. No attempt however was made 
to argue even that there was satisfactory ovidence that the corrupt practice was committed 
by Shambhu Maharaj with the consent of respondent No. 1 himself. But it was urged 
by Mr. Daru that there was ample evidence to prove the consent of the election agent 
Punambhai Patel of respondent No . 1 to the Commission of the corrupt practice by 
Shambhu Maharaj in all the three meetings . It was argued that this consent must be 
inferred from the fact that he remained present in all the three meetings and he had not 


Suc . XV ) ] THE VAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1963 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 3823 
- - - .. . - 

- - - 

- 
tried at all lo disassociate himself from tho impugned statements made by 
Maharaj. On the contrary even though in the list meeting 

Shambhu 

this corrupt practice liad 
been committed , he went with Shambhu Maharaj in the second meeting and thọ third 
Diveting, took a leading part; remained present and thereforç his consent must be inferred , 
Mi. Nanavily on the other hand contended that therc is no proof of any conscious act 
Our thic part of funambhai to amount to consent in law . It was also argued that here 
the corrupt practice alleged was not such as could be said to be par af corrupt practice 
and it cannot be said that Pununbhai was a lay man, on his own could have decided or 
understood that such a speech or such a statement in the speech would be hit by - section , 

123 ( 2 ) proviso (a ) (ü ). In this case , it is an admitted fact now and in any case estab 
lished that Punanıbhai was present in all the three mcetings . He was the organiser of 
the Swatantra Paksha and in all these meetings , ho had spoken first. He went with 
Shambhu Maharaj from place to place . Then , as already pointed out, he had issued a . 
paniphlet as the organiser of the Swatantra Paksha for the meetings of Shambhu 
Maharaj of 26th January 1967 . As regards the meetings that he attended , there is noth 
ing to show that he triçd to demur or protest or raised any objection to utterance of the 
impugncd words . In any case , not only did he object or disassociate himself in the 
first instance from what Shambhu Maharaj had said which amounts to corrupt practice , 
but he went with Shambhu Maharaj to the second and the third meetings also . There is 
nothing to show that he had tried even to stop Shambhu Maharaj from committing that 
corrupt practice again and again . Under the circumstances , it is impossible to con 
dude that Punambhai could not have known what Shambhu Maharaj was upto . Mr . 
Daru relied upon the decision in Kumara Nand v . Brijmohanlal Sharnia A . I.R . 1967 S . C . 
808 . This was a case under section 123 (4 ) of the Act and it was held that recitation in 
public meeting of pocmn containing false statement of fact with consent and knowlcdge of 
a candidate , responsibility for the publication is of the candidate and it is his belief that 
matters and not belief of the reciter. In the said case the poein was not actually roud 
by the appellant but it was read in bis prçscace ut a meeting at which he was presiding 
and the learned Judges agreed with the High Court that in thosc circuimstances the recita 
tion of the poem amounted to the publication of the false statement of fact containucd in 
it by another person with the consent of the candidate. Their Lordships have kept the 
question open as to what would be the position in a caso where the candidate had no 
knowledge at all of the publication before it was made. Mr. Nanavaty however , relied 
upon the decision in Sheopat Singh v . Harish Chandra A . I.R . 1960 S . C . 1217 to support 
his contention that unless it can be said that Pupambhai had knowledge that Shambhu 
Maharaj would utter such words, no conscnt can be imputed to him . Now in the pre 
vent case , it may bo that if tho Court had to depend only on the first speech , thero was 
Bomo force in the argument that Punambhai could not have the knowledge as to what 
Shambhu Maharaj was going to speak . Even then in my view having regard to the close 
contact , knowledge could be imputed to Punambhai, But apart from that, as already 
pointed out, cven after the first speech , he associated himself with the Shambhu Maharaj 
and in his presence Shambhu Maharaj again committed the same corrupt practice and 
even then he had not disassociated himself . But Mr. Nanavaty argued that the nature 
of the present corrupt practico was such that Punambhai as a lay man could not have 
roasoned out there and thon that it was a corrupt practice and therefore could have dis 
associated himself and therefore his mere presence cannot amount to consent. I am not 
impressed by this argument. If this contention wero to be accepted , then in respect of 
the corrupt of the nature with which we aro concerned , it can always be pleaded that he 
could not know or reason out that the statements made in the speeches amounted to . 
corrupt practice or not. That way any abetor can make a plea that though he know 
tho law and what the ingredients of the offenco wero he could not make out at the timo 
when he abetted the crime whether the acts which the principal was committing would 
amount to an offence or not. It may be that the Court comes to tho conclusion that the 
statoments amount to tho alleged corrupt practice after considering the pros and cons of 
the allegations and the contentions of the parties, and arrive at the conclusion on a long 
reasoning, but once it is established that the act did amount to a corrupt practice , in my 
view it will not be open to the party to say that he could not reason it out himself to be 
& corrupt practice of the nature alleged and therefore his presence cannot amount to 
consent to such corrupt practice . 


I have considered with care to the able arguments of both the sides and here reasong: 
that I have given , I hold that the consent of the election agent of respondent No. 1 to the 
commission of the corrupt practice under section 123 ( 2 ) proviso ( a ) ( ii ) by Shambhu 
Maharaj has been established . As the commission of the corrupt practice and the con 
gent of the election agent of respondent No. 1 has been established beyond a reasonable 
doubt, as a consequence thereof, the election of respondent No. 1 is liable to be 
declared void under section 101 ( 1 )(b ) of the Act. 


382,4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[Part II 


The petitioner has also sought the relief that respondent No. 2 should have been de 
clared elected to the Lok Sabha . However , the said relief was not pressed by Mr. Daru 
and rightly so becausc it is not possible to grant that prayer under section 101 of the 
Act as it is not possible to say how many votes were secured by the first respondent by 
the corrupt practice which is proved to have been committed . In the result, the election 
petition succeeds and I declare that the election of the first respondent to the Lok Sabha 
from the Banaskantha Parliamentary Constituency to be void because thc Corrupt practice 
coinmitted by Shambhu Maharaj to which the clection agent of respondent No . 1 con 
sented . No order can be made under section 99 of the Act against the respondent 
No. 1 himself as the corrupt practice is found to have been committed by Shambhu 
Maharaj and the liability of the respondent No. 1 arises only because of the consent of 
election agenl . 

As regards costs , in this casc actual hearing including the arguments took ten full 
days . I find , however , that the petitioner has not, right from the stage of issues after 
they were framed , given up all the grounds that he had alleged . At this stage , he bad 
given up only two of his grounds. Even when the petitioner went into the box , he had 
persisted in his efforts to establish the various grounds. It was only after about 16 Wil 
nesses were cxamined that the Court and the other side wero finally informed that the 
pctitioner was not going to press issues Nos, 5 and 6 . Under the circumstances and hav 
ing regard to all the facts, I award Rs. 2 ,000 / - inclusive of costs of the advocate s fce 
and other taxed costs of the petition . Respondent No . 1 to pay the said costs to the 
peticioner . 

At this stage , Mr. Nanavaty on behalf of the first respondent applied for stay of the 
operation of this order to cnable the first respondent to approach the Supreme Court, and 
file an appcal and apply for stay. Under section 116 (d ) of the Act, the Court is entitled 
to put the first respondent on terms. The stay order is granted on the following ternis : 
That the respondent No . 1 may attend the sitting of the Lok Sabha in order that he may 
not lose his seat on the ground of absence but he shall not take part in the proczedings of 
the Lok Sabha and shall not draw any pay or allowances and that the operation of this 
judgment and order shall be stayed for six weeks from the respondent No. 1 getting the 
certified copy of this judgment and order . 

By the Order of the Court, 

Sd /- M . A . SYED. 

Deputy Registrar ( 1) 
" This 9th Jay of May, 1968 . 


[No, 82 /22 /67(GJ.) ] 

By Order, 
K . S. RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
S . O .2822 .- .-In exercise ot the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Laccadive , 
Minicoy and Amindivi Islands Land Revenue and Tenancy Regulation , 1965 (No. 6 
of 1966 ) the Central Government hereby authorises the Administrator, Laccadive , 
Minicoy and Amindivi Islands, to appoint the following classes of revenue officers , 
Pamely : 

( a ) assistant settlement officers, 
(b ) tehsildars , 
( c ) revenue Ingpectors, and 
( d ) arins . 


( No. 1 / 2 / (18) 68- ANL ) 
R . C . GUPTA , Under Secy, 


SEC: 3/-1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3825 


- . . - 


= - = 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1968 
S . O . 2823 . - In exercise of the powers c2 . ferred by section 53 ofthe Banking Regulation Act, 
1919 ( 10 of 1919 ) , the CentralGovernment, on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of 
In lia , hereby declares that theprovisions ofsection 9 of thcsaid Act shall not apply to the Catholic 
Syrian Bank Ltd. , Trichurin rospect of the innovable property held by it at Thoppumpady 
Palluruthy, Cochin , Ernakulam District, Kerala State , till the Tel August 1969 . 

[No. 15 (22 )- BC /68 .] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 12th August 1968 
S . O . 2824, — For the word pledge appearing in the last but one line of this Department 
Notification of even number dated the 3011 April , 1968 , published as S . O . 1622 in page 2162 
of Part II, Section 3 (ii) of the Gazette of India duted the sith May, 1968 , plcase read pledgec . 

[ F . No. 15 ( 18 )- BC /68 .] 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Socy . 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

ORDER 


STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 17th August, 1968 
S .O . 2825 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause(a ) of sub-section ( 1) of section 
9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (2 of 1899), the Central Government hereby remits 
[in addition to the remission of duty made in the order of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue and Insurance) No. 14 /67 which was 
published as Part II, Soction 3 , sub - scction (il) in the Gazette of India dated 16th December , 
1967 at page 4602 ] the duty with which the bonds to the value of cight lakhs and twenty 
one thousands of rupees issued in cxess by the Maharashtra State Financial Corporation 
are chargeable under the said Act . 

[No. 13 /68 - F . No. 1 / 38 / 68 - Cus. VII/ Stamps.] 

M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAY 

New Delhi, the 29th July 1968 
9 . 0 . 2816 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -ges von (1 ) of Section 122 of the Io . 
conetax Act, 1951 (43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf , the Central Boan 
of Diroct Taxes hereby makes the following further amendments in the schedule appended to its 
notification No . 107 ( F . No. 50 / 5 /66 -IT )), dated the 27th October, 1966 namely : 


In the said schedule against A - range , Amritsar and C - Range Amritsar under column 2 , tho 
following entries shall be substitutod , namely : 
A .-Range, Amritsar I. In respect oforders passed by Income- tax Officers up 

to and including 14 - 7 - 1967. 

(1) Distt. I, Amritsar. 
(it) Distt . II(i) to II (v ), Amritsar . 
(ti ) Distt . III ( iv ), Amritsar. 
( iv ) Special Survey Circle , Amritsar in 

respect of persons who have their 
principal place of business in or regido 
in the jurisdiction of Distt. I, II end . 
III(Iv ), Amritsar ). 


3826 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [PART ! 


- 


- 


- 


2 . In respect oforders passed by the Income 

tax Officers after 14 - 7 - 1967 . 


(1) Distt. I(i), Amritsar. 
( ii) Distt. I (ii), Amritsar. 
( iii) Addl. Distr . 1(ii), Amritsar . 
( iv ) Distt. I( iii ), Amritsar. 

(v ) Addl. Distt. I (iii), Amritsar . 
(v1) Distt . I( iv ), Amritsar. 
( vii ) Distt. I(v ), Amritsar . 
( viii ) Addl. Dist. I( v) , Amritsar. 
(ix ) Dist. I(v1), Amritsar. 
(x ) Addl.Distt. I (vi), Amritsar. 


C -Range , Amritsar . 


. 


. 


I . All Income- tax Circles , Wards or Districts having 

Headquarters at Batala . 
2 . Distt. I(vii ) to I( x ), Amritsar . 
3 . (1) Distt. II (vi), Amritsar. 

( ii ) Addl. Distt. II(vi), Amritsar, 
(112 ) Distt. II(vii ), Amritsar. 
(iv ) Addl. Distt . II(vii), Amritsar. 
( v ) Distt. II (viii ), Amritsar . 
(vi ) Distt. II( ix ), Amritsar . 
( vii ) Distt. II (x ), Amritsar . 


4 . SpecialSurvey Circle , Amritsar (in respect of person , 

who have their principal place of business in or reside 

In thejurisdiction of Income- tax Officers , Batala ). 
This notification shall take effect from 29 - 7 - 1968 . 


Explanatory Notes : 

The amendment has becomenecessary on account of creation of new wards at Amritsar. 

( The above note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be merely clar:fce 
bory). 

[ No. 66 (F . No. 50/ 10 /68 -IT ]]. 

S. V . ŞUBBA RAO , under Secy . 


INCOME- TAX 


New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 


S . O . 2827. - In excercise of the powers conferred by section 126 of the Irccme- 16x Act , ICC 
( 43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following addition to the 
schedule annexed to its Notification No. 1 ( F . No. 55 /233 /63 - IT ) dated to let May , 1964 . 


SEC. Bíl )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


3827 


After the existing cntry at S . No. 55 the following entry shall be added : 


SCHEDULE 


s . 


Person 


No. 


Income- tax 
Oficers in 
IT Circle 


Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 
Assistant Assistant of Income- tax 
Commissioner Commissioner 
of Income tax of Income- tax 


56 Employees of the United ITO : in In - Inspecting Appellate Commissioner 

Church of CanadaMis - come- tax Cir - Assistant Assistant of Income-tax 
sionary Committee cle , Indore . Commissioner Commissioner Madhya Pra 
stationed anywhere in 

of Income- tax of Income-tax desh , Nagpur 
India . 

Indore, Range B - Range , and Bhandara 
Indore . 

Indore , Nagpur. 


This Notification shall take effect from 


[No. 13 (F . No. 55 /259 /68 -I. T.A . III)] 
N . SRI RAMAMURTY, Under Secy . 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE 

SHILLONG 


Shillong , the 8th August 1968 


S . O . 2828 . - In exercise of powers conferred on me under Rule 143 and 233 of the Central Ex 
cige Rules , 1944 , I hereby order that the following types of processing operations may be under 
taken by the warehouse licensccs for preservation , sale and disposal of tobacco . 


( 1) Unpacking of packages ; 
( 2 ) Sorting and sizing of leaves ; 
(3 ) Keeping loose in stacks to regain colours ; 
(4 ) Re-packing for clearance . 


[ C .E . No. 6/68.] 
A . K . BANDYOPADHYAY, Collecto . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 


New Delhi, the 9th August 1968 


S . O . 2829. — The following amendments made to the Articles of Association by 
the Madhya Pradesh Commercial Exchange Ltd ., Akola , in exercise of the powers 
conferred on it by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9A of the Forward Contracts ( Regula 
tion ) Act, 1952 (74 of 1952) and approved by the Central Government are hereby 
published , as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of that section , namely : 


Amendments 
In the said Articles of Association , 

( 1) in Article 21, in clause (i), for item ( a ), the following item shall be substitu 
tea, namely : 

" ( a ) Panel of Crushers and Ginners;" 


3828 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


PART II — 


(2 ) in Article 49 , in clause ( 2 ), - 

(i) for sub -clause (a ), the following sub -clause shall be substituted , namely : 
" ( a ) Not more than three Directors , elected from amongst and by members 

or their authorised representatives belonging to the panel of Crushers 

and Ginners ;" 
( 11) in sub - clause (b ), the words " Out of these , not more than two shall be 

elected from amongst and by the members or their authorised repre 
sentatives from Akola and not more than one Director shall be elected 
from amongst and by the members or their authorised representatives 

from Khamgaon " shall be omitted ; 
( iii) in sub - clause ( c ) , the words " Out of these not more than three shall 

be elected from amongst and by the members of thelr authorised repre 
sentatives from Akola and not more than one Director shall be elected 
from amongst and by the members or their authorised representatives 
from Khamgaon " shall be omitted . 

[ No . 13( 1)-CG ( FMC )/ 68. ) 
SURENDRA SINGH, Dy. Secy . 


(Office of the Jt. Chlef Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4th July 1968 
S . O . 2830 . - M /s. Aeroplane Shoe Factory , Gurdwura Road , Karol Baghi , New Delhiwere 
granted an import licence No . P /AU / 1211791/ C for Rs. 2 , 35,904 /- on 21 - 3 - 1968. They have 
applied for a duplicate of the Exchange Control Copy of the said licence on the ground that the 
original Exchange Control copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced . It is further stated that 
the original licence was not registered with any Customs House and has not been utilised at all. 

In support of this contention the applicant has filed an affidavit . I am satisfied that the ori 
ginal Exchange Control Copy of licence No. P /AU / 1211791/ C has been lost and direct that a 
duplicate licence should be issued to the applicant. The original Exchange Control Copy of 
1 Icence is cancelled . 

[No. Leather -9 / July -Sept.-67 /SC - III /CLA ] 


New Delhi, the 5th August 1968 


S . O . 2831. - A licence No. P / SS / 1573780 / C / XX / 23 / CD / 23 : 24 dated 26th August 
1966 of the value of Rs. 3 ,000 / - for import of Rolled Nickle Anodes was issued to M / s . 
Chopra Cycle Parts Works, 0 - 16 , Industrial Area , Sonepat (Distt . Rohtak ) subject 
to the condition that all the items of the goods imported under it shall be utilised 
in the licence holder s factory and no portion thereof shall be sold to any other 
party or utilised or permitted to be used in any other manner . 

2 . Thereafter , a show cause notice No . C - 6 / 67 / ENF / CLA 4 - 67 dated 7th Feb 
ruary 1968 was issued asking them to show cause within 10 days as to why the said 
licence in their favour should not be cancelled on the ground that the Central Govt . 
is satisfied that the licence will not serve purpose for which it was granted in 
terms of Clause 9 , sub - clause ( cc ). 

3 . In response to the aforesaid show cause notice , M / s. Chopra Cycle Parts 
Works, 0 - 16 , Industrial Area , Sonepat (Distt . Rohtak ) furnished no explanation , 

4 . Having regard to what has been stated in the preceeding paragraph , the 
undersigned is satisfied that the licence in question should be cancelled or other . 
wise rendered ineffective. Therefore , the undersigned , in exercise of the powers 
vested in him under Clause 9 sub - clause ( cc ) of the Imports (Control) Order , 1955 
hereby cancel the licence No. P / SS / 1573780 / C / XX / 23 / CD / 23 : 24 dated 26th 
August 1966 for Rs. 3 ,000 / - issued in favour of M / s . Chopra Cycle Parts Works, 
0 - 16 , Industrial Area, Sonepat (Distt . Rohtak ). 

[NO. C -6 / 67 / ENF /CLA / 4229 . ] 

J. S . BEDI, 
Jt. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports. 


3829 


- - - - 


- 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2, 1890 

- - -- _ 

_ 
MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES & METALS 

( Deptt . of Mines & Motals ) 
New Delhi, the 31st July 1968 


9 . 0 . 2831. - Whereas it appears to the CentralGovernment that coal is likely to be obtained 
from the lands mentioned in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

Now , thereföre , in crercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of scction 4 of the Coal 
Boring Areas ( Acristition and Development) Act , 1957 ( 20 of 1957 ), the CentralGovernment 
hereby gives notice of its intention to prospect for coal therein . 

The plaas ofthe area covered by this notification may be inspected in the Office of theNational 
Cyal D :velopment Coryration Limited (Revenue Section ), Darbhanga House , Ranchi or at 
th : fice of the Collector , Sidhi (MP) or in the office of the Coal Controller , I - Council House 
Street , Calcutta . 

Any person interested in the lands mentioned in the said schedule shall deliver all maps , 
charts and other documents referred to in suh - gection (7 ) of section 13 of thesaid Act to theRevenuo 
Oficer of the NationalCoal Development Corporation Limited , Darbhanga House , Ranchiwithin 
pincty days from the date ofpublication in the Gazette of India of this notification . 


SCHEDULE 


Borbi Block 
( Singrauli Coalfield ) 


Drg . No . Rev/29 /67 
Dated 21- 9 -67 


( Showing the area notified for prospecting ) 


Si. 


Village 


Tahsil 


Tahsil No. 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


I Gorbi 
2 Naurhia 


, 
, 


Part 
Part 


, 


Deosar 

Şidhi 
" 
Total area : 705 . 00 acres (Approximately) 

OR 285 .52 Hectares (Approximately) 


Boundary Description 
A - - B - C Lines pass through village Naurhia and meet at point C 
C - D . Line passes through villages Naurhia and Gorbi and meets at point D . 
D - E - - - G . Lines pass through village Gorbi and meet at point G . 
G - H . . Line passes through villages Gorbi and Naurhia and meets at point H . 
H — A . Lino passes along the part common boundary of villages Naurhia and Fuljhar 
and meets at point A , 

[No. C2- 22 (3)/67.) 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
9 . 0 . 2833 _ Whereas it apears to the Central Government that coal is likely to be ob 
tained from the lands mentioned in the Schedulc hereto annexed ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 of the 
Coil B : acing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 ( 20 of 1957) , the Central Governº 
ment hereby given notice of its intention to prospect for coal therein . 

The plan of the Preisverd by this notification can be inspected at the Office of the Notional 
Coal D : velopment Corporation Limited (Revenue Section ) , Darbhanga House, Ranchi or at tho 
Ofice of the Deputy Comnissioner , Hazaribagh (Bihar ) or at the Office of thc Coal Controller , 
1 , Council House Strect , Calcutta , 


3830 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


(Part II 


All persons interested in the lands mentioned in the said Schedule shall deliver all mops, 
charts and other documents referredtoin sub - section ( 7 ) of section 13 of the said Act to theRevenue 
Officer of the National CoalDevelopment Corporation Limited , Darbhanga House, Ranchi within 
ninety days from the date ofpublication ofthis notification . 


SCHEDULB 

Urimarii Block 
( South Karanpura Coalfield ) 

Drawing No. Rev /37 / 67 

Dated 27 -11-67. 
(Area notised for prospecting ) 


Sl.No. 


Village 


Thana 


Thana No. 


District 


Arca 


Remarks 


. Baskagaon 


97 


Hazaribagh 


Pait 


. 
. 


I Ango . 
2 Agwa , 
3 Potanga 
4. Urimari 
5 Jarjasa . 
6 Girgula 


153 
154 
155 
156 
157 


Totalarea : 3840 acres (Approx.) 
Or 1555 20 Hectares (Approximately ) 


Boundary Description : 
A - B Line starts from the left bank ofRiver {Demodar and goes upto Contral line of River 

Damodar in village Ango and mects at point B ? . 
B - C Line passes along the Central line of River Damodar i.d . along the part Southern 

boundary of village Ango, Southern boundary of vill get Aswa, Potanga , Urimari 

and part Southern boundary of village Garsula and mects at point C . 
C - D - A Lines pegg through villages Garsula, Jarjara Urimari, Potanga, Aswa and Ango apd 

meet at point A . 


[No. C2- 12 ( 1)/68 .] 


ERRATA 


New Delhi, the 31st July 1968 
8 . 0 . 1834 . - In the notification of the Government of Irdia in the Ministry of Siecl , Mind 
and Metals Department of Mincs and metals ) No. S . O . 1895, dated the 21st May 1568 pi blisted 
in Part II, Section 3 , sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India , dated the 1st June, 1968 , at pages 
2586 to 2587 : 
at page 2586 

(1) in line 26 , for " Fhariacoalfield " , read " Jharia Coalfied " ; 
( it ) in line 38 , for “ 21( P )" , read 211 (P ) " ; 
(11) in line 40 , for Fogidl" , read " Jogidi" ; 
(iv ) in line 46 , for " 8815 (P )" , read ," 815 (P )" ; 
(v ) in line 47, for " 98 (P )" , read " 898 (P )" , 

[No. C2 - 20 ( s)/65 - 1.) 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 


8 . 0 .7895 - - In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Steel. Miretard 
Metals (Department of Mines and Metals ) S . O . No. 2033, dated the 25th May 1968 , published ! 


Sec . 31 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BILADRA 2 , 1890 


8831 


Die 2731 to 2734 in ? 1- - II , Section 3 , S1) - 92ction ( li) of the Gazette of India , dated the 8th 
June , 1968 : 

I. At page 2731, in lin : 32 ,for " Farlach11621.1" real " Jha ria coalfield " ; 
2 . at page 2732 – 

(i) in line 3 , for " 717 ( P ) " road " 727 ( P ) " ; 
( 11) in line 8 for " Fatudlh , read " Jatudih " ; 
( lil ) in line 25 , in the first column , for " F " , read " E - F ” ; 
( lv ) ln line 26 , for " 714 " , read " 744 " ; 
( v ) in line 35 , for “ Orc" , read " bore " ; 
( vi) in line 44, for " 578 (P )" read " 578" ; 

(vii ) in line47, for " 716 (P )" read " 716 ; and for " 718719 ( P )" , read " 718 , 719 ( P )" , 
3 . atpage 2733 — 

(i) in line 4 , for “ line through plot nin bers" , read lin : 0133 : 3 through plo : numbers " , 
( ii ) in line 12 for " Sub - Block - II” read Sub - Clock - Il " ; 
( lii ) in linc 31, for " Fogidi" , read“ Jogidi" ; 
( iv ) in line 41 , for "1673( P ) ” , read « 673 " ; 
( v ) in line 46 , for " 242( P ) " read " 242 " ; 
(vi) in line 49 , for " 04 (P )” , read " 64 (P ) ; 

( vii ) in line 30 , for “ L4" , read " 274 (P ) "? ; 
4 . at page 2734 -- 

(i) in line 1 , for " Fatudih " , read “ Jatudih " ; 
( ii) in line 4 , for "*174 ( P ) to 147 " read " 174 to 247 ); 

and for " 542 ( P ) to 362" road " 543 to 562 ; 
( ili) in lino 7 , for “ 8 to 166 " , road " I to 166 " ; 
( iv ) in line 8 ,for " Farma” , read " Tarma" ; 
(v ) in line 15, for " Jarudib " , road " Jatudlh " ; 
( vi) in line 33 for " dated 20 - 1964 " road " dated 20 - 1 - 1964 " ; 
(vii ) la line 37 , for usvide 9" , road " u /s 9 vido " ; 
(viii) in line 40 , for " 918 , 922, 923" , rezd " 918, 923 ,922 ,923 " . 


[No. C2- 20( 12)/64-1 
RAM SAHAY , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1968 


S . O . 2836 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
and, in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department 
also by clause (5 ) of Article 148 of the Constitution , the President, after consulta 
tion with the Comptroller and Auditor-General, hereby makes the following amend 
bent in the Central Services (Medical Attendance ) Rules , 1944 , namely : 
1. (1 ) These rules may be called the Central Services (Medical Attendance ) 

Amendment Rules 1968. 
( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official 

Gazette, 


2 . In rule 5 of the Central Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1944 , to sub 
rule ( 1 ) , the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that where such specialist or other medical officer is within the 

District , the approval of the Principal Medical Officer / Chief Medical 
Officer / Civil Surgeon of the District shall be sufficient." 

[No. F .29 -78 / 67-MA .) 
R . MURTHI, Under Secy . 


3832 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2, 1890 [ PART II 


स्वास्थ्य , परिवार नियोजन एवं नगर विकास मंत्रालय 

( स्वास्थ्य एवं नगर विकास विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 3 अगस्त 1968 
एस0 प्रो02837 . --- संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक द्वारा तथा भातीय लेखा 
परीक्षा एवं लेखा विभाग में काम : रने वाल व्यक्तियं के बारे में भी संविधान के अनुच्छेद 148 के खण्ड 
( 5 ) के द्वारा मिली शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए राष्ट्र ति नियंत्रक एवं महालेखापरीक्षक से परामर्श 
करने के पश्चात् एतद्द राईद्रीय सेवा (शिविरसा र हार ता ) नियम , 1944 में निम्नलिखित सशोधन 
करते हैं ; नामतः 
1. ( 1 ) ये नियम केन्द्रीय सेवा ( चिकित्सा सहायता ) संशोधन नियम, 1968 कहे जावें । 

( 2 ) सरकारी राज पत्र में प्रकाशित हो जाने की तिथि से ये नियम लागू होंगे । 

2. केन्द्रीय सेवाएं ( चिकित्सा सहायता ) नियम, 1944 के नियम 5 के उप -नियम ( 1 ) में 
निम्नलिखित परन्तुक जोड़ दिया जायेगा ; नामत : 

"बशर्ते जहाँ ऐसा विशेषज्ञ थवा अन्य चिकित्सा अधिकारी जिले में ही हो वहां उस जिले के 

प्रधान चिकित्सा अधिकारी ख्य चिकित्सा अधिकारी सिविल सर्जन की अनुमति लेना 
पर्याप्त होगा । 

राम मूर्ति , अवर सचिव । 
[ सं० १०29-78/ 67- चिकित्सा] अनुदान 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

(Department of Petroleum ) 

New Delhi , the 3rd August 1968 
s . o . 2828. - -In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Petroleum Pipelines Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land ) Act , 1962 (50 , of 1962 ), and in modification of the Notifications of the Gov 
crnnent of India in the Ministry of Mines and Fuel S . O . No. 1131 dated the 6th April, 1963 and in 
the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . No. 2170 dated the 26th June, 1965 the Central 
Goycrnment hereby authorises Shri S . C . D . Kaushik , to perform the functions of the competent 
authority w . c. f. I - 7- 68 under the said Act vice Shri Har Dat Singh as in the schedule given below: 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the Person 


Address 


Territorial Jurisdiction 


State of 


Uttar 


Pradesh , 


Shri S. C. D . Kaushik , Liaison 

Officer . 


M /s. Indian Oil Corporaticn 
Ltd. ( Pipe lines ) P. B. No. 
58 , Allahabad ( U. P.). 


[ No. 31 / 6/ 63 -ONG/ IOC ( Vol. II).] 


New Delhi , the 7th August 1988 
S . O . 2839 . — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No. 1725 dated 7th May , 1968 under gub - section 
(i ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ) the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the 


SEC . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BELADRA 2 , 1890 


3833 


Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for 
the purpose of laying pipelines. 

And whereas the competent authority has under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 6 of 
the said Act, sumbitted report to the Government; 

And whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report , 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the schedule appended 
to this notification . 

Now , whereas, in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Sec 
tion 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifcation is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub - section (4 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that the right of 
user in the said lands shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, vest on 
this date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Commis 
şion free from all cncumbrances . 


(Laying pipeline from well No. 80 to G .G . S . IT 

SCHEDULE 
Statoujarat 

Dist, Mehsana 


Taluka - Katol 


- 


TL 


Village 


S . No. 


Hectare 


Area 


P . Area , 


87 


798 
797 / 1 
797 / 2 
799 
801 
V . P . Road 
797 / 1 
762 & 761 


760 


CHOYOVOCHAwww 


نهیمچې 


: 759 

749 
: 748 / 2 
, 748 / 13 
. 748 / 1A 
- 742 
. V . P . Sajj Cart 

Track . 


داناللهعلما 


OwoacowON 


732 T 


. 


, 


732 / 2 
732/ 3 
733 
734 / 2 
730 
734 / 1 
712 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


AwwKO 


, 


77 


40 


(Laying Pipeline from well No. 16 to G .G .S . II) 


Ş 


1217 
1219 
V . P . Raod 
1214 / 1 
1213 / 2 
J213 / 1 
1212 
1216 
V . P . Sajj 
700 / 1 ) 
700 / 2 
70013 ) 


, 


3834 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


(PART II — 


3 


4 


5 


Saij 


. 


. 


. 


06 


( Laying Pipeline from well No. 77 to G .G .S . II) 
. . . 712 

0 15 
(Laying Pipeline from D .S. K . 91 to G .G .S. IT) 

. V . P . Dhanaj cart 

track 

, 212 
. . : 39 

224 


Dhenaj 


31 


OOO 


[No. 29 /9 / 88-10C .) 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 318t July 1968 
9 . 0 .2840 . - In the notification published as S . O . No. 2364 on page 3246 in part II Section 
3 (11 ) of the Gazette of India dated 6 - 7 - 68 the following correction is notified : 
la line s of the last para for Soction 6 ( 1 ) Road Section 6 (4 ). 

[No. 31 (38)/63- ONG /IOC ( Vol. 7).] 


8 . 0 1841. - In thenotification published as S . O .No. 1905 on page2591 in part II Section 3 (1l) 
of the Gazette of India dated 1 -6 - 68 , the following correction is notified : 
In line < of the last pare for Section 6 (1 ) Road Section 6 (4 ). 

(No. 31/67 /63 -ONG / IOC ( Vol. 7) (ili).] 


New Delhi, the 18t August 1988 
$ . 0 . 2843. - In the norification published & g . O . 2016 on page 2720 - 21 in part II Section 
(il) of the Gazette of India dated 8 -6 - 1968 , the following correction is notificd : 
In line 3 of the lagt para for Section 6 (1) Road Section 6 (4) . 

(No. 31(41)/64- Prod/ IOC. (Vol. II)., 


S . O . 2843 . - In the notification published as S . O . 1653 on page 2187 - 88 in part II Section 
3 (id) of the Gazette of India dated 11 - 5 - 1968, the following correction is notified : 
Tn lines of the last pera for Section ( 1 ) Read Section 6 ( 4 ) . 

(No. 31(41) /64 -ONG / PROD /IOC .) 


9 . 0 . 2844. - - In the notification published as S . O . 2100 on page 2965 in Part II Section 
3 ( 11) of the Gazette of India dated 15 -6 - 68 , the following correction 18 notified : 
In line 5 of the last para for Section 6 ( 1), Read Section 6 (4 ). 

[No. 31 (41)/64-ONG /PROD /IOC .) 


9 . 0 . 2844 . -- In the notification published ag S . O . 2363 on page 3245 in Part II Section 
3 ( 1) of the Gazette of India dated 6 - 7 -68, the following correction is notified : 
In line s of the last para for Section 6 ( 1) Road Section 6 (4 ). 

[No . 31( 41)/64-ONG /PROD / IOC . ) 


New Delhi, the 2nd August 1968 
S . O . 1846 . - In the notification pz lished as S . O .No. 1903 on page 2590 in Part II Section 
3 ( 11 ) of theGizette of India dated 1 - 5 -68 che following correction is notified : 
In line 5 of the last para for Section ( 1) Read Section 6 (4 ). 

[No. 31 /67 /63-ONG /IOC (Vol. 7) (1) ] 


Sec. 3 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


383 « 


S . O . 2847 . -- In the notification published as S . O . N . 1924 on page 2590- 91 in Part II 
Section 3 (ii ) of the Gazette of India dated 1- 6 -68 the following correction notified : 
In line y of the last para for Section 6 ( 1) Read Section 6 ( 4 ) . 

( NO . 31/67 /63 -ONG /IOC ( Vol. 7 ) (11) ] 


LRRATUM 

New Delhi, the 5th August 1968 
8 . 0 . 1848 – In the notification ofGovernment of India in the Ministry ofPetroleum & Chemicals 
$ . o . No . 568 dated 1 - 2 - 1965 published in the Gazette of India Part II Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ) 
dated the 13th February, 1965 at page 639 , for S . No. " 175" of village Kamod read " 157 " . 

[No. 31(41)/64 -Prod /IOC ( Vol. II)] 

R . S . GOPALAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Chomicale) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
S . O . 28.49In pursuance of sub - clause ( 2 ) of clause II of the Molasses Control Order 
1961, the Central Government hereby directs that the provisions of sub - cleyse ( 1 ) of the said 
clause shall come into force in the Statc ofMadras with cffect from the 26th day of August, 1968 . 

[No. 4/ 19 /68/Ch . 1] 
R . U . BHOJWANI, Under Socy . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 9th August 1968 
S . O . 2850 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 85 of the Indian 
Railwayg Act, 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ), read with the notifcation of the Government of 
India , in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No . 801 dated the 24th 
March , 1905 , the Rallway Board hereby makes the following amendments in the 
Aules for the preparation of accident returns, published with the notifcation of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board ) No. S . O . 3312 
dated the 3189 August, 1964 , namely : 
In the said rules, 
(a ) in rule (4 ), under the heading " II. Accidents to be included for the 

purpose of these Statistics" , for paragraph (v ), the following paragraph 

shall be substituted , namely : 
“ ( v ) while reporting the number of accidents, the figures should be given 

Irrespective of the number of casualties of persons or cattle caused 
by each particular accident, which should be separately stated . 
Similarly , the number of collisions and derailments should be shown 
irrespective of the vehicles damaged or derailed by such collisions or 
derailments. Each accident must be shown only once , and in the event 
of an accident falling in more than one category , it should be treated 

as an accident in the higher category . " 
(b ) in the Statement of Accidents , in Table I , ( 1) for the remarks under the 

main heading " A TRAIN ACCIDENTS ," the following shall be 

substituted , namely : 
" ( The train accidents and train kilometres hereunder refer to all traction 

trains, viz ., steam , diesel or electric passenger, mixed , goods and 
departmental trains as well as the electric multiple unit trains as they 
are run , and also the rall cars . Train derailments or serious damages 
to trains occurring due to train wrecking, i.e ., as a result of wilful 
obstruction or tampering with permanent way formation , structures or 
equipment should be shown separately under sub - item 2 .03). " 


3836 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 - (PART II — 


- 


- 


(ii ) for the remarks under the heading " Accidents involving Trains at Level 

Crossing " , the following shall be substituted , namely : - 
" ( To include trains running into road traffic and / or road traffic running 

Into trains at level crossings . Accidents at level crossings not involv 
Ing tralns will be accounted for under miscellaneous accidents as 
item 20 ) ." 


[No. 67 / Stat. 1 / 32 / 10 .} 
C . S. PARAMESWARAN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Industrial Development ) 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
S . O . 2851. - IDRA / 5 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section s of the Industries 
(Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951 ), read with rule 8 of the Central Advisory 
Council (Procedural) Rules , 1952, the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G . L . Mehta 
to be member of ihc Central Advisory Council of Industries till the 3rd November , 1969 , in place 
of Shri P . L . Tandon and directs that the following amendment shall be made in the Order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs (Depart 
ment of Industrial Development) No. S .O . 4044 , dated the 4th November , 1967 , namely - 

In the said Order, for entry No. 13 relating to Shri P . L . Tandon , the following entry shall bo 
substituted : 

" 13. Shri G . L . Mehta , 
Chairman , 
The Industrial Crcdit and Investment Corporation of India Limited , 
163 , Back Bay Reclamation, 
Bombay - I . 

[No. F . (5 ) Lic . Pol. 167 ] 


New Delhi, the 9th August 1968 


$ . 0 . 2852 -- 15 / IDRA /68 .- Whereas the CentralGovernment is of the opinion that there has 
becn , or is likely to be a substantial fall in the volume of production in respect of cotton textiles 
manufactured in the Industrial undertaking known as the Ahmedabad New Textile Mills Co . Ltd 
Ahmedabad ; for which , having regard to the economic conditions prevailing , there is no justi 
fication , 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the Industries (Develop 
ment and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951), the Central Government hereby appoints , for the 
purpose ofmaking full and complete investigation into the circumstances of the case , a body of 
persons consisting of : 
1 . Shri S . V . Kogekar 

. . . . . , Chairman 
2 . Shri M . G . Mirchandani 

Member 
3 . Shri R , G . Zalani 

. . . . . Member 
4 . Shri A . R . Kher 

Member 
5 . Shri B . D . Mukherjee , 

. Member - Secretary . 
[No . 9 (10 ) Lic . Pol./68 ] 


New Delhi, the 17th August 1968 


S . O . 2853_ IDRA / 6 / 6 /68 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of tho 
Industries ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951 ) road with rules 2 , 4 and 
5 of the Development Councils (Procedural ) Rulcs , 1952 , the Central Guvernment hereby 
appoints, for a period of two years with effect from the date of this Orcler , the following 
persons to bo members of the Development Council for the scheduled industries engaged 


SEC 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3837 


in the manufacture or production of Drugs and Pharmaceuticals, in place of members ap 
poiuted under the Government of India in the late Ministry of Industry Order No . S . O . 
1435 IDRA /6 / 1 /66 , dated the 7th May , 1966 , as amended from time to time, whose " 
tenure of ollce has expired by efflux of time or otherwise : - - 


Development Council for Drugs and Pharmaceuticals 


1. Shri A . V . Mody , Managing Director, M /s. Unichem Laboratories Ltd ., 22, 

Bhulabhai Desai Road, Bombay - 26 .- Chairman . 
2 . Shri Keith C . Roy, Managing Director, M /s. Merck Sharp & Dhome of India 

Ltd ., Dugal House , Backbay Reclamation , Bombay - 1. 
3 . Dr. K . A . Hamid , Managing Director, M /s. CIPLA , 289, Bellasis Road , 

Bombay - 1. 
4 . Dr. D . V . K , Raju , Managing Director, M / s. Crookes Interfran Ltd ., 254- D , Dr. 

Annie Besant Road , Worli, Bombay - 12 . 28 -DD . 
5. Shri N . M . Shah , M /s. Atul Drug House, 83 , Dr. Annie Besant Road , Worli, 

Boinbay . 
6 . Dr. J. N . Banerjee, Director, M / s. Sandoz ( India ) Ltd ., Sandoz House, Worli, 

Bonbuy - 18 . 
7 Dr. N . Rengaswami, Chief Analyst, M / s . Glaxo Laboratories ( India ) Private 

Ltd ., Dr. Annic Besant Road , Worli , Bombay - 18 . 
8 . Dr. S . K . Mehta , Chief Chemist , M / s. Boehringer Knoll Lid ., United India 

Building , Pherozeshah Road , Bombay- 1. 
9 . Dr. S . Rohtugi , M /s. Hind Chemicals Ltd ., M / 336 , Rail Bazar, Kaupur. 
10 . Bhai Mohan Singh , Chairman & Chief Executive, M / s. Ranbaxy Laboratoriot 

( Private ) Ltd ., Okhla , New Delhi. 
11. Prof. Rangaswamy, Deptt . of Chemistry , University of Delhi, Delhi. 
12 . Shri Rattanlal Gupta , 1424 , Chandni Chowk , Delhi. 
13. Dr. B . N . Ghosh , Managing Director, M /s. Bengal Chemicals & Pharmaceuti 

cals Works Ltd ., 6 , Ganesh Chunder Avenue , Calcutta - 13 . 
14 . Shri M . S. Shastri, Chief Executive, M / s. Synbiotics Ltd ., Wadi Wadi, Baroda 
15. Shri C . S . Raju , M / s. South India Research Jostitute (P ) Ltd ., Srinagar, Vijaya 

wada (Andhra Pradesh ) . 
16 . Dr. J. J. Neuruker, M /s. Sunneeta Laboratorics, 89 - B / 90 , Industrial Estata , 

Indore ( M . P .) . 
17 . Shri C . A . Subramanyam , Managing Director, M /s. Hindustan Antibiotics Ltd ., 

Pimpri, Poona. 
18 . Shri Inderjit Singh , Chairman & Managing Director, M / s. Indian Drugs & 

Pharmaceuticals Ltd ., N - 12, South Extension Part (I ), New Delhi- 3 , 
19 . Dr. B . B . Sarkar, Director of Drugs Control Administration , West Bengal, 

Calcutta . 
20 . Dr. S . B . Rao , Managing Director, M /S . Navrathna Pharmaceuticals, Cocbio 

(Kerala ) . 
21. Shri M , L . Dhar, Director, Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow . 
22. Dr, Shanti Patel, Kamgar Sadan , Nawab Tank Road, Mezgaon , Bombay . 
23. Dr. B . Shah , Industrial Adviser , Dte , General of Technical Development, New 

Delhi. 
24. Shri P. S. Ramachandaran , Drugs Controller , Ministry of Health , Now Delhi. 
25, Shri S . Sundararajan , Deputy Secretary , Ministry of Petroleum & Chemicals , 

New Dolhi. 


3838 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[Part II — . 


26 . Brig. N . K . Mitra , Dy. Director General (Equipment & Stores ) , Armed Forces 

Medical Services, Ministry of Defence , New Delhi. 
27. Dr. G . P . Kane, Officer on Special Duty , Ministry of Industrial Development & 

Company Affairs, (Department of Industrial Development ) , New Delhi. 
28 . Dr, P . R . Gupta , Development Officer , Dte . General of Technical Development, 

New Delhi. 
2 . Dr. P . R . Gupta, Development Officer, D .G . T .D ., New Delhi, is hereby appointed 
oto carry on the functions of the Secretary to the said Development Council . 

(No. 13 (1 ) /68- L. C .) 
R . C . SETHI, Under Socy . 


( Department of Industrial Development) 

( Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi , the 31st July 1968 
S . O . 3854 - In exercise of the powers conferred on ne under sub - regulation (4 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certi 
fication Marks ), Regulations, 1955 , as amended from time to time, modifications to the provisions of the Indian Standard , details of which are 
mentioned in the Schedule given hereafter , have tentatively been made with a view to expediting the use of the Standard Mark , without in any way 
affecting the quality of goods covered by the relevant standard , 

THE SCHEDULE 


Serial No. and Title of Indian Standard , the pro - Particulars of the existing 
NJ. visions of which have been modified . 

provisions 


Particulars of the modifications made to the Date from which the modi 
provisions 

fications shall come into force. 


(3 ) 


IS 1989 - 1967 Specification for Miners Safety Clause 8 . 3 relating to 
Leather Boots aod Shoes. 

weight of boots 


To clause 8 - 3 , line 2 - Read 1750 g 

1600 g 


for 


22 July 1968. 


Stc.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST24,1968/BEADRA2,1890 


[No. CMD / 13 : 4 ) 
(DR) A N . GHOSH , 

Director General, 


3839 


3840 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards Institution ) 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
S . O . 2855. - In partial modification of the then Ministry of Industry notification , published in the Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 ( ii ) dated 5 
September 1964 under number S . O . 3006 dated 25 August 1964 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that the standard mask for vitreous 
sanitary appliances (vitreous china) has been revised . The revised designs of the standard marks together with the titles of the relevant Indian Standards 
and verbal description of the designs are given in the following schedule , 

These standard marks for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the rules and regulations frame 
thereunder shall come into force with effect from 25 July 1968 ; 


THE SCHEDULE 


SI. 


No. 


Design of the 
Standard Mark 


Product /Class of Products to 

which applicable 


No. & Title of Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Verbal description of the design of the 

Standard Mark 


2 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST24,1968/BHADRA2,1890 


IS :2556 


Vitreous sanitary appliances 

(general requirements) 


IS : 2556 (Part I ) 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
( vitreous china ) Part I General 
requirements first revisioni ) 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 

Institution , consisting of letters 
" ISI , drawn in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in col ( 2 ), the 
number , designation of the Indian Stan 
dard being superscribed on the top side 
and the relevant Part No. being subs 
cribed under the bottom side of the mono 
gram as indicated in the design . 


Part 1 - 


IS :2556 


wash down water - closets 


Do . 


IS : 2556 (Part ID - - 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances (vit 
reous china ) 


Part II 


[PARTIL 


Part II Specific requirements of wash 
down water-closets first revision ) 


3 


is :1556 


Squating pans and traps 


Part III 


1 $ : 2556 (Part 111)- 1967 Specification The monogram of the Indian Standards 

for vitreous sanitary appliances (vi- Institution , consisting of letters ISI, 
reous china ) 

drayon in the extil style and relativc pro 
Part III Specific requirements of squa portions as indicated in col ( 2 ), the number , 
ting pans and trap : ( first revision ) designation of the Indian Standard being 

superscribed on the top side and the rele 
vaat Part No. being subscribed under the 
bottom side of the monogram as indicated 

in the design 
IS : 2556 (Part IV ) — 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 

( vitreous china ) 
Part IV Specific requirements of wash 

basins ( first revision ) 


4 


IS : 2556 


Wash basins 


. 


. 


Part IV 
IS : 2556 


5 


Laboratory sinks 


. 


. 


IS : 2556 (Part V ) — 1967 Specification 

for viterous sanitary appliances 

( vitreous china ) 
Part V Specific requirements of 

laboratory sinks first revision ) 


Sec.?(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST24,1968/BHADRA2,1890 


Part V 


IS :2556 


Urinals 


. 


. 


. 


. IS : 2556 (Part VD - 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 

( vitreous chica ) 
Part VI Specific requirements of urinais 

first revision ) 


Part VI 
IS : 2556 


7 


Half -round channel 


: 


· 


DO , 


IS : 2556 (Part VII) - 1967 Speciñication 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 
(vitreous china ) 
Part VII Specific requirements of 

balf - round channel first revision ) 


Part VII 


3841 


3842 


10 


IST 2556 


Siphonic wash - down water 

closets 


IS : 2556 (Part VIII - 1967 Specification The monogram of the Indian Standards 

for vitreous sanitary appliances Institution , consisting of letters " ISI 
( vitreous china ) 

drawn in the exact style and relative 
Part VIII Specific requirements of proportions as indicated in col (2 ), the 
siphonic wash - down water closets number designation of the Indian Standard 
first revision ) 

being superscribed on the top side and the 
relevant Part No . being subscribed under 
the bottom side of the monogram as indi 
cated in the design . 


Part VIII 


NEW 


9 


IS : 2556 


Bidets . 


, 


. 


, 


. 


Do. 


IS : 2556 (Part IX ) -- 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 

(vitreous china) 
Part IX Specific requirements of bidets 

first revision ) 


THBGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST24,1968/BHADRA2,1890 


Part IX 


10 


IS : 2556 


Foot rests 


. 


. 


. 


Do . 


IS : 2556 (Part X ) - 1967 Specification 

for vitreous sanitary appliances 

( vitreous china ) 
Part X Specific requirements of foot 

rests first revision ) 


Part X 


(No. CMD/ 13 : 9.1 

DR.) SADGOPAL , 
Deputy Director General. 


(PARTII 


Sec. 3 (U )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


3843 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 25th July 1968 
So . 2856 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 , read with rule 4 of the Cinematograph ( Censor 
ship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri A . L . Srinivasan 
as a member of the Central Board of Film Censors with immediate effect . 

[No. F . 11 / 8 /67-F ( C ) .] 
H , B . KANSAL , Under Secy. 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

The foreft, 25 JATS, 1968 
go to 2857 . - - ACHT4 ( < fT4 ) ET , 1958 FTCh 4 HT afort 
fHATC1014 Taft , 1952, ETT 3 # 344rt ( 1), # rafa e aff SHT , 
भारत सरकार श्री ए . एल . श्रीनिवासन को अभी से केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेन्सर बोर्ड का सदस्य 
नियक्त करती है । 

[# 841 11/8 /67-94 ( to ).] 
हरि बाबू कंसल, अवर सचिव । 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1968 
$ . 0 . 28 58 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of the enactments 
specificd in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government after considering th 
recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay , hereby approves the films specified ie 
column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Marathi and Hindi language versions to bn 
of the description specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


THB FIRST SCHEDULE 


( 1 ) Sub -Section ( 4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (Central 
Act XXXVII of 1952 ) . 

( 2) Sub - Section (3 ) ofSection 5 and Section of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation ) Act , 1953 
(Bombay Act XI of 1953 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


$ 1. 
No. 


Title of the film 


Length Name of the Name of the Whether a scientific or a film 
35 mm Applicant Producer intended for educationalpur. 

poses or a film dealing with 
news and current events or 
a documentary film . 


3 


4 


I Maharashtra News 283 . 00 M 

No. 194 . 


Director of Publicity , Film dealing with news and 
Govt . of Maharashtra , current events ( For release 
Bombay. 

in Maharashtra Circuit only ) . 


- TU 


- 


. . 


[No. 24 / 1/68 - FP APP . 1276 .] 


3844 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part II 


-- - 


- - . 


— 


- 


- 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
S . O . 2859 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provision of each of the enactº 
ments specified in the First Schedule annexed hercto , the Central Government after considering 
the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby approves the film specified in 
column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified 
against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1) Sub - Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 

(Central Act XXXVII of 1952 ). 
(2 ) Sub - Section 3 of Section s and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 

1953 ( Bombay Act XVII of 1953) . 
(3 ) Sub - Section (4 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation ) 
Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


- . .. - 


- - 


-- 


- * - . 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. - - 


- 


- 


$ 1. 
No . 


Title of 

film 


the 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of Whether a scientific film 
the Producer or a film intended for 

educational purposes or 
a film dealing with news 
and current events or a 
documentary film 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


I Mahitichitra 

No. 97 


167 . 64 M 


Director of Information , 
Government of Gujarat, 
Ahmedabad - 15 . 


Film dealing with News 

and current events 
(For release in Gujarat 
circuit only ) . 


[No. F . 24 / 1/68 - FP. App . 1278 .] 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL , Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 


S . O . 2860. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial 
Tribunal, Chandigarh , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the 
Caledonian Insurance Company, New Delhi and their workmen , which was received by 
the Central Government on the 20th July . 1968 . 
BEFORE SHRI ISHWAR DAS PAWAR , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , GOVERNMENT 
OF INDIA , CONSTITUTED UNDER CLAUSE (D ) SUB -SECTION ( 1) OF SECTION 10 

OF THỂ INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT , 

REFERENCE Nos . 2 / C AND 6 / c. 
In the matter of Industrial Dispute 

BETWEEN 
Tho workmen and the management of M / s. Caledonian Insurance Company, New 

Delhi. 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3845 


PRESENCE : 


Shri K . K , Khullar and Shri P . C . Bose - - for the management. 
Shri Madan Mohan — for the workmen , 


AWARD 


By virtue of an order datci 3rd January , 1967 the Central Governinent referred the 
following items of dispute to this Tribunal Consequcnt upon an industrial dispute having 
come into existence between the employers in relation to the Caledonian Insurance 
Company, New Delhi and their workmen , for adjudication > 
1. Whether the benefits of gratuity and leave given by the Calcdonian Insurance 

Company, New Delhi to the peons and drivers employed by them neod 

improvement ? 
2. If so , to what extent and from what date . 
By another order of the 7th July , 1967 the Central Government further referred the 
following item of dispute between the same parties , to this Tribunal for adjudication : 
Whether any or all of the cxisting conditions of service mentioned below relating 

to pcons and drivers employed by Caledonian Insurance Company, New 

Delhi, necd any improvement ? If so , to what extent and from what date ? 
(1) Pay scales; 
( 2 ) Dearness allowance; 
(3) Overtime allowance ; 

(4 ) Age of retirement; 
In response to the notices issued to the parties they appeared before the Tribunal 
through their representatives and filed statements of their respective cases. The plcadings 
of the parties filed in both the cases give rise to the following issues : 

( REF. No. 2 / C ) 
1 . Whether the benefits of gratuity and leave given by the Caledonian Insuranco 

Company, New Delhi to the peons and drivers employed by them need 

improvement ? 
2 . If so , to what extent and from what date. 
3 . What is the effect on this reference of the provisions of the Delhi Shops and 

Establishments Act and on the claim of the workmen for improvement under 
the leave facilities ? 

(REF , No. 6 / C ) 
1. Whether the dispute was not espoused by a sufficient number of workmen or by 

a union representing substantial number of workmen ? 
2 . Whether any or all of the existing conditions of service mentioned below 

relating to pcons and drivers employed by Caledonian Insurance Company, 
New Delhi, need any improvement ? If so , to what extent and from what 

date ? 
(1) Pay scales ; 
(2) Dearness allowance; 
(3) Overtime allowance ; 

(4) Ago of retirement; 
Issue No. 3 of the first reference was decided by my ordor dated 9th August , 1967. 

On the 29th of September , 1967, thc representatives of the parties made statements 
that the two references be taken up together as evidence in both of them was more or 
less common . Accordingly the two CASCs were ordered to be taken up together . This · 
award will, therefore , dispose of both the references. 


After cvidence had been partly recorded the representatives of the parties prayed for 
time as the parties were negotiating for a settlement. For this purpose a few adjournments 
were granted and ultimately the parties succeeded in arriving at a mutual settlement on all 
the points involved in both the references. The settlement is Ext. AR 1 and it is signed 


3846 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[TART II 


- 


S 


= 


by Shri P . C . Bose , Branch Manager, of the Company for and on behalf of the manage 
ment and by Sarvshri Ram Singh , Dalip Singh and Sham Singh for and on behalf of the 
workmen . The terms and conditions of this sottlement are as under 
SCALES OF PAY : 

The following scales of pay are agreed w .e.f, 1st October, 1965 . 
(i) Peons — Rs. 30 – 2 – 40 - 3 — 70 — 4 . 90 . 
(ü ) Drivers Rs. 55 – 2 – 65 — 3 —— 95 — 4 - 115 . 

Adjustment — Employees will be fitted into the revised scales of pay and where at 
employee whose salary on 30th September , 1965 does not fit in a step in the new scale , 
he will be fitted into the new scale of basic salary at the point next above the basic salary 
actually drawn by him on 30th September , 1965 . One ad hoc increment effective 1st 
October , 1965 will be granted . After the above adjustment, all the employees will get 
their usual annual increments according to the revised pay scale on and from the date 
they are allowed their annual increments as at present. 

Dearness allowance . It is agreed that a scheme of Dearness allowance for subordinate 
staff be introduced as follows w .e.f, 1st October, 1965 :- - 
When thọ All-India Consumer Price Index Number Base 1949 — 100 is at the figure 

170 , the members of the subordinate staff would be paid dcarness allowance 
of Rs. 95 per month and for every risc and fall of five points in the index 
figure , there would be an increase or decrease in the quantum of dearness 

allowance by Rs. 5 . 
Working hours and overtime. It is agreed that the Peons would be required to attend 
the office 1 / 2 an hour carlier and leave 15 minutes later every day beyond the usual office 
hours. As such , thc Pcons hours of work will be : 

Mondays to Fridays - 9 - 30 a .m . to 5 -45 p .m . With one hour break for lunch . 

Saturdays - -9 -30 a.m , to 1 -45 p .m . 
The working hours of the drivers will be : 

9 ,00 4 .m . to 12 .30 p .m . 
1. 00 a . m . to 2 . 30 p .m . 

4.00 pm to 7 ,00 p. m . 
For work beyond the normal hours of work , as prescribed abovc, overtime allowance will 
be paid at the rate prescribed in the Delhi Shops and Establishments Act but for the 
purposes of calculation of overtime, a cushion period of 15 minutes would be deducted 
before overtime can be claimed and no overtime will be payable for this cushion period , 
on that particular day , 

Medical Aid . The company agrees to reimburse on production of a medical certificato 
and /or the receipts for prescriptions prescribed by a registered doctor , an amount upto 
but not exceeding Rs. 75 in any one year. It is clearly understood that this benefit will 
apply only to the employee himsclf. It is also agrocd that as a special case Shri Sham 
Singh would be re - imbursed an amount for which he has already submitted medical bills . 

Gratuity . Effective 1st October, 1965 - gratuity will be paid to permanent members of 
tho subordinate staff who are subscribers to the Provident Fund (excluding part- time or 
temporary employees), subject in all cases to a maximum of 15 months last basic salary 
at tho following rates 
(1) On normal retirement or reaching the age of superannuation, or at death , or on 

permanent total incapacity at the rates of one month s last basic salary for 

overy year of service completed with the company.. 
( ii ) Subject to an employco completing ten years of service with the company, on 

retrenchment (where retrenchment compensation is payable under tho Indus 
trial Disputes Act ) at the rato of half a month s last basic salary for every 

completed year of service with the company . 
( iii) No gratuity will be paid to an employee who is dismissed for misconduct. 
(iv ) On termination of service by the company for any other reason not specifically 

provided for above at the rate of one month s last basic salary for every 

completed year of service with the company . 
Any gratuity payable under the abovo Rules plus the total amount to which the 
employee is entitled under the Provident Fund shall be the total retiral benefits payablo by 
the company and there will be no other form of retrospective adjustment. 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 3817 
= = = - . - . - . - - . .. - . . . --..... ... ..-- - - : - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - .. . - - : - - 

Retirement Age . It is agreed that the age of retirement shall be 58 years and the 
employee concerned shall be retired on 7th April following their attainment of the age of 
58 . The clute of birth already on records of the Company in any manner whatsoever shall 
be conclusive procf of age. The conipany retains the right to retire an employee carlier 
on medical grounds. 

Provident Fund . — The present rules will continue . 

Leave: ( a ) Privilege Leave - - Privilege leave granted will be inclusive of Saturdays and 
Sunday ; or public holidays notified under the Negotiable Instruments Act which may 
interven . 


Privilege Leave Entitlement: 

14 days per annum 


21 days per annum 


after completion of one ycar s service and 

zintil completion of seven years service . 
after completion of 7 years service and 

until the complction of 15 years service . 
after completion of 15 ycars service. 


28 days per annum 


An cmployee may be permitted , subject to the exigencies of the office to accumulate two 
years Icave according to the settlement of Icave entitlement specified above . 

( b ) Casual-cum -sick leave : 

(1) A maximum of 12 days casual- cum -sick leave will be allowed in each calender year 
to cach cnployee with full pay (basic plus D . A .). Where casual leave is sought it shall 
Dol he granted for more than two days at a time and such leave shall not be permitted 
to he prefixed os suffixed to holidays or to any other kind of leave . 

) Wherc leave is sought on grounds of sickness, it will be considered only when the 
Tequest in accompanied by a medical certificate from a doctor acceptable to the company . 

( iii) Casual and sick leave will he non -accumulative . 


Bons. - - Subject to any prohibition of the Government of India , a permanent employee 
in the service of the company at the time Bonus is paid will be entitled to a bonus each 
year equivalent to one and a half month s basic salary , cxcept where such employee has 
not completed one years service as at the time of payment when the Bonus shall be paid 
on & pro rata basis for the neriod commencing from the date of his appointment lipto 
31st Deceinber . Where a probationer is in the scrvice of the Company at the time of the 
payment of the Bonus but has not been confirmed , on subsequent confirmation beforc 31st 
December in that year he will be entitled to receive a pro rata bonus at that time calculated 
from thc date of his first appointment to the 31st December . 


Vniform .- - The present practice will continue. 
Confirmation : 


(a ) Temporary staff. – To temporary employees who have been engaged for work which 
is of essentially a temporary nature likely to be finished within a limited period , none 
of the bencfits under this agreement will apply . Both the parties agree that temporary 
cmployces if any will be confirmed on completion of six months continuous service and 
they would be cotilled to benefits under this settlement on confirmation . 


(b ) Probationers. . . )n the case of employees appointed on probation , the probationary 
period would be maximum for six months. 


All other demands mcntioned in the charter of demands are deemed to be settled . 


It is agreed that this settlenient is a settlement under Section 2 (P ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. In considcraticion of the demands settled by the management the 
employees agree that they shall not mine any demand involving any financial burden and 
implication on the company during the period this settlement is in operation , 


It is agreed that this settlement shall remain in force for a minimum period of two 
years from the date of signing i. e. 22nd Junc, 1968 and shall continue to remain in opera 
tion even thereafter unless terminated by either party by giving the other party two calendar 
months written notice of its intention to terminate the settlement in acordance with law . 


3848 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


(PART II 


Hence I give an award in terms of the settlement reproduced above . 

Thero shall be no order as to costs . 
Dated , the 16th July , 1968. 

( Sd . ) ISHWAR DAS PAWAR , 

Industrial Tribunal, 
Government of India, Chandigarh . 

[No . 70 (1)/66 - LRIVI 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 1st August 1968 
S . O . 2861, - Whereas the applications, specified in the Schedule hereto ? oneyed . vrder 
subsection ( 2 ) ofsection 33C ofthe IndustrialDisputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) are pending before 
the Labour Court , Bombay ; 

And , whereas for the ends of justice and convenience of parties, it is necessary to transfer 
the proceedings to the Labour Court at Nagpur ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 33B of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hercby withdraws the pro 
ceedings in relation to the said applications pending before the Labour Court, Bombay and transfer 
the game to the Labour Court, Nagpur , constituted by the notification of the Government of 
India , in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S . O . 3453 dated the 22nd September , 1967 with Shri P . D . Kulkarni as the 
Presiding Officer , and directs that the said Court shall proceed with the said applications ficm the 
stage at which they are transferred and dispose of the game according to Law . 


Si. 
No. 


Case Nos . 


Name of the applicant 


Remarks 


I LCB /185 /67 
2 LCB / 186 /67 
3 LCB / 187/67 
4 LCB /188 /67 
5 LCB/ 189 /67 
6 LCB /190 /67 
7 LCB / 191/67 
8 LCB/ 192 /67 
9 LCB/ 193 /67 
IO LCB / 150 /67 
II LCB/229 /67 
12 LCB / 230 /67 . 
13 LCB /15 /68 
14 LCB -44 of 1968 , 
15 LCB - 9 of 1968 . 
16 LCB -228 of 1968 
17 LCB - 14 of 1968 . 


Shri Dhanoo Bhagoo 
Shri Pratapsingh Bhikansingh 
Shri Maroti Venkati 
Shri H . D . Vaidya 
Shri Shamsunder Mahabir Prasad 
ShriMangal Bapuna 
Shri Sadhugingh Harnamsingh 
Shri Abdul Wahid 
Shri Shankar Sukhdeo 
Shri Jogendra Singh 
Shri B . K . Auglawe 
Shri Mehtralall 
ShriMahadeo Mangalsingh 
Shri BudhulalMotilal 
ShriGannu 

Shri A . J . Fernandes 
, Shri Jamna Bharose and others 


. 
. 


[No. 2 / 21 /68 -LRIII ] 
New Delhi, the 2nd August 1968 
9 . 0 . 2862, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute existe 
betwcen the employers in relation to the Management of Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited , Charkh : 
ADadri and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedulc hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas thc CentralGovernment considers it desirable to refer the said disrlte cu 
djudication ; 


SE: 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BILADRA 2 , 1890 


3849 


Now , thcrofore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 A , and clause ( d ) of 
sub - section ( 1 ) ofsection IQ of the IndustrialDisputes Act, 1947, ( 14 of 1947 ) the Central Govern 
ment hen by constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri Ishwar Das Pawar as the Presiding 
Officer , with Headquarters at Chandigarh and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal . 


SCHEDULE I 


I . Whether the action of the management of Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited , Charkhi Dadri 
in stopping the following 172 workmen from work with effect from the date shown against each 
was justified ? If not, to what relief are they entitled ? 


S1. 


Name and Father s Name 


Village 


Date from 

which 
stopped 
from work 


2 - 3 - 1968 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


cowanaw 


Do . 


Rigas 

Do. 
Sukhpura 
Leharwara 

Do . 
Sukhpura 
Bhawrari 
Alagar 
Anglai 
Aligar 
Chara 
Rigas 
Aglai 


Io 


Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


H 


H 


B 


Madawara 
Anglai 
Mavrari 

Do. 
Kubja 
Bhuwtana 
Kapuri 
Mavu 
Rigas 


Do. 


Ramdeva /o Ruda 
Chetu s / o Plam , 
Heera g / o Kalu . . 
Maida 8 / o Parbu , 
Karna s / o Parbu 
Şuwa s / o Kalu 
Ramjilal s /o Kundan . 

Ratan glo Sohan 
o Mohan s / o Mangla 

Kishan s / o Sohan 
II Birju 8/ o Nanu Ram 
12 Bedu s / o Ruda . 
13 Mandu glo Bodu 
14 Devåg / o Bedu 

Makhan s /o Mangla 
16 Fatu s / o Kalu , 
17 Narain g / o Balu 

Surjas / o Bagji . 

Surta slo Bala . 
20 Jales/ o Chandgi Ram . 
21 Ramdhan s / o Maru 
22 Rohtas s /o Udmi 
23 Jages/o Lila . 
24 Bhagrith s/ o Dalu 
25 Kalu s / o Dalu . 

Lalu sjo Sohan . 
27 Mahla s /o Jhuwara 
28 Jagap s /o Bagji . 
29 Chandu s / o Fool Singh 
30 Kales/ o Nathu . 
31 Sheo Ram / o Harkaran 
32 Kalan s / o Sohan . 
33 Duwarku s / o Foolsingh 
34 Puran s / o Imraj . 

Goma s / o Mangla 
36 Chetu 8 /0 Bhola . 
37 Sankar s / o Binja 
38 Mansingh so Gopal 

Tara Chand y / o Surja , 

Juglal s / o Mamraj 
41 Sheo parshad s /o Gopalsingh 

Bheram s / o Teja , 

Ramgarup s / o Searam . 
44 Nagar slo Nurda 
45 Richpals / o Heera 
46 Narain g / o Heere 
47 Parbhat 8 / o Bhura 
48 Ramkishan s / o Mansingh 
49 Rampartap s /o Dhansingh . 
50 Randhir s / o Chandgi , , 


r 


AAAAAAAAAAAAA AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 


O 


Alisar 
Rigas 
Bhavatri 

Do. 
Rigas 
Madhogarh 
Alisar 
Bhawathri 
Adcpur 

Aglai 
, Regas 

Do . 
Mambulia 
Bavathri 


. 


35 


Do . 


42 


Do. 
Khanpur 
Jhinjlier 
Nandha 
Regas 

Do. 
Haspur 
Leharward 
Jhinjher 

Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


3850 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART II 


S1. 


Name and Father s Name 


Village 


No. 


Date from 

which 
stopped 
froni work 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


giggo Kundan . 


. 


Bhawathri 

Do. 


2 - 3 - 1968 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


6 - 3 - 1968 


Do. 


Do. 


57 Park 


61 


Majipura 

Do. 
Sawamiki dhani 
Majipura 
Chapali 
Samaspur 
Chapeli 
Samaspur 
Sawamiki dhani 
Kundan 
Majipura 
Khora 
Paleki dhani 

Palri 
• Majipura 

Do . 

Do . 
Sunderpura 


72 


Do . 


+ 


Do . 
Buchawasi 
Manaksas 
Samaspur 
Mahrana 


Do . 


Do 


52 Dayanand s / o Kundan 
58 Omparkash s / o Arjan Singh 
54 Bhura s /o Mohan 
55 Jagu s /o Mohan . 
56 Maglag/ o Nandu 

Parbu 8 / 0 Baksa . 
58 Sarwan s / o Nathu 

Bakhtawar slo Gopal 
60 Hazaris / o Nathu 

Mange 8 / o Gopal 
62 Dungaso Dalu . 
63 Motislo Gordhan 
64 Budh Ram s / o Mohan 
65 Magu s / o Gopal , 
66 Bhana s / o Ganesh . . 
67 Bhola s / o Asa . 
68 Parhhat s / o Lalchand . 
69 Lalchanislo Mohan 
70 Moolchand s / o Lalchand 
71 Karna s /o Sunda 

Sunda s / o Dula 
73 Lichman s /o Sunda . 
74 Ganesh s /o Ladu 
75. Goda 
76 Rajkaran s/ o Amar Singh 
77 Manfhool s /o Chunia , 
78 Banwaris/ o Chunia 
79 Rampals/ o Chunia , 
80 Maru s /o Raje , 
81 Desa so Neki . 
82 Indra s / o Neki . 
83 Şamera s /o Maru 
84 Ramchandra y / o Ramjilal 
85 Raisingh s /o Neki 
86 Parlad 8 /0 Ranjeet 
87 Mailals / o Sheonath . 
88 Mange s /o Dugar 
89 Santu s / o Chiranjilal 
90 Husara s / o Mahinder 
91 Munsis/ o Kishanlal . 
92 Hanuman s / o Jhathu . 
93 Sunda s /o Gula . 
94. Jolhas /o Hanuman 
95 Bhuru blo Kumha 
96 Ganesh s / o Kumha . 
97 Jhabar s / o Giga 
98 Narain s / o Cheta 
99 Nandas/ o Cheta 
TOO Mahalag/ o Sankar Budela 
IOI Ram - sargo Bhagwana 
102 Hanuman s / o Surja . 
103 Nanu slo Kalu 
104 Rameshar : / o Gula . 
105 Bhajna slo Lakhm , 
106 Bholu glo Chela . 
107 Nihalu 3 /o Kharvi 
108 Sudhan s / o Bhola 
109 Maman s / o Daya Ran , 
IIO Mange e / o Lila , 
III Mathu s / o Lila 
112 Balbir s /o Deena , 


AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA 


Do . 


DO. 


Do, 


DO . 


Do . 


Leharwara 
Mahrana 


Do . 
Do. 


Katlatjal 

Do. 


Do. 


DO . 


Do. 


Do , 
Palri 
Balodi 

Do . 
Bidela 
Mankawas 

Do . 
Gerlda 

Do. 
Biredi 
Biheror 

Do . 
Do, 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


Do . 
Do. 


Do . 


27 - 2 - 1968 


Do . 


Do , 


DO. 


Do . 


Do. 


Suc . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 3851 
... - :. : . : - - - :: - - 
Si. Name and Father s Name 

Village 

Date from 
No. 

which 
stopped 
from work 


Biheror 

Do . 


27 - 2 - 1968 


Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do 


Do. 


Do . 


Io . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do 


Maira 
Bihror 

Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


Do , 
Do. 
Do. 
Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


MmmmTT 


Do. 


Do . 


Bhagvi 
Bihror 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do . 
Do. 


Do. 


II3 Tylı var S / o Sheochand . 
114 Rim Parshad sio Puran 
IIS Dharma s / o Hardeva . 
116 Rigale 3 / 0 Puran , 
117 Umed 8 / 0 Puran 
118 Banwarino Daya Ram 
119 Chhote glo Balwant 
I20 Sadhuram s / o Hardeva 
121 Partap s /o Bhaikhar . . 
122 Sigram slo Balwant . . 
123 Jailal s / o Kharvi 
124 Dharam Pals / o Sis Ram 
125 Bhikhu s /o Rup Chand 
126 Ram Sarup g / o Bhikhu 
127 Sitar s /o Bhikhu 
128 Raghbirslo Samuh 
129 Risal slo Samuh . 
130 Indlers/o Mam Chand . 
131 Ratia 9 /o Juglal . 
132 Banwari alo Jug Lal 
133 Rameshwar s / o Ratia . 
134 Girdharis /o Juglal 
135 Muinsiglo Girdhari 
136 Ramphela /o Girdhari , 
137 Chhote La) slo Bihari Lal 
138 Chander s / o Balwant 
139 Partap s /o Chuja 
140 Tage s / o Kushla 
141 Kartar s / o Kushla 
142 Balbir y / o Muna 
143 Tare 3 /0 Mangtoo 
144 Bharthu slo Sahia 
145 Ram Kishore slo Kanhaya 
146 Tages/ o Nathua 
147 Santraj 8 / 0 Tage 
148 Om Parkash so Subha Chand 
149 Sher Singh s / o Bhanju 
150 Ramphel S / o Subhachand 
151 Rajender slo Subhachand 
152 Kundun s / o Maria 
153 Vishnu slo Bhande 
154 Santu s /o Thandu 
155 Risals / o Bhalla . 
156 Chander s / o Siria 
157 Banwari s /o Tatugana 
158 Mehar Singh s / o Chhaju 
159 Thabalg /o Giani , 
160 Titso Dani 
IÓI Bhagwana s /o Lal Chand 
162 Kartar s / o Bhagwana . 
163 Jagan s /o Bhuna 
164 Jeis / o JaiDayal 
165 Chandgis/o Nana 
166 Sant Lals/ o Bala 
167 Subha s /o Lal Chand . 
168 Ratan s /o Banwari 
169 late s /o Chandgi 
170 Ratia s / o Jugti . 
171 Kanhaya s /o Jugti 
172 Darya 3 /0 Subharam . 


Do. 
Do. 


Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
Kundrali 


Do . 
Do . 
Do . 


Bihror 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do . 
Do. 

Do. 
Kaliawas 


Do . 
Do . 
Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 
Do. 


Bihror 

Do. 
Do . 


Do. 


Do. 
Do . 


DO . 


Kaliawas 

Do. 
Bihror 
Kaliawas 

Do. 
Do. 
Do. 

Do. 
Bihrot 

Do. 

Do. 
Kaliawas 


Do. 
Do . 


Do. 
Do . 


Do . 


Do . 


[No . 36 / 12 /68-LRI]. 


852 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2 , 1890 


(PART II 


. 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1968 
S . O . 2863 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
Limited , 2 / 1 , First Line Beach (Dare House Extension ), Madras- 1 and their work -- 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7A and clause ( d ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri M . Tajam 
mul Hussain as the Presiding Officer with headquarters at Ist Line Beach , Madras 
and refers the sald dispute for adjudication to the said Industrial, Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the Punjab National Bank Limited . Madras is justified in declaring 
Shri S . Rajagopalan , the senior most employee at Ramnathapuram as surplus and 
transferring him to Ambur on that account ? If not, to what relief is the employee 
entitled ? 

[No. 23 / 45 / 68 -LRIII. ) 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 3rd August 1988 
$ . 0 .2864 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 F of the Employee s Stato 
Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, having regard to the location of the 
factory in the Schedule below in sparse arca in the State of Kerala , hereby exempts the said factory 
from the payment of the employers special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said 
Act until enforcement of the provisions of Chapter y of the said Act in that area ; 


Schedule 


Sl. No. 


Nameof District 


Name of areu 


Name of the factory 


I 


Trichur 


Vadakumkara 


M /s . Pathrcsc Ricceria Mills . 


[No. F . 6 ( 19 )/68 -HI] 


New Delhi, the 8th August 1968 
9 . 0 . 2865, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees State Irku 
tance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the CentralGovernment, having regard to the location of the factorie 
mentioned in the Schedule below , in gparse areas in the State of Uttar Pradesh . herety excipis 
the said factories from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviablc under Chapter VA 
of the gaid Act until the enforcement of the provisions ofChaptei V of 11 € 38d Actir 1 } c : ( 31€ef . 


SCHEDULE 


S . No. Name of the Distt . 


Name of Area 


Name of the factory 


I Faizabad 


, 


. 


. Tanda . 


) M /s . S . B .Agrawal & Co . Chhajapur . 
(it) M /s . Behlolpur Calendering Co . 
(iii ) M /s . Kedarnath Finishing Works . 
( iv ) M / S , Tanda Industrial Co. Chhajapur . 


- - 


- - 


[No. F . 16 ( 10 )/68 - HI] 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


Sw . 3 (ii) ] TIPE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHACRA 2 , 1890 


38520 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th August 1968 
S . O . 2866 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 : 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the... 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute bet 
ween the employers in relation to the Sasti Colliery , Post Office Ballarpur, District 
Chanda and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 
6th August, 1968 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURT. 

JABALPUR 
Dated July 29 , 1968 


TRESENT ; 
Shri G . C . Agarwala , Presiding Officer. 

Case Ref. No. CGIT / LC (R )( 17) of 1968 
FIPTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Sasti Colliery , P .O . Ballarpur, Distt. Chanda . 
(Maharashtra) . 

Vs . 
Their workman , represented through Maharashtra Colliery Workers Union , 

P . O . Ballarpur, Distt. Chanda (Maharashtra ). 
APPEARANCES : 

For employers.-- Sri S . V . Kanade, Personnel Omcer , 

For workman . Dr . D . P . Kawadkar, President of the Union . 
INDUSTRY ; Coal Mine. 

DISTRICT : Chanda ( M . S .). 

AWARD 
By Notifcation No. 3 / 2 / 68 -LRII, dated 21st February 1968 the Ministry of La 
bour, Employment & Rehabiltation (Department of Labour & Employment), Gov 
crnment of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in schedule to 
the order of reference, to this Tribunal for adjudication : 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the management of Sastí Colliery , Post Office , Ballarpur, District 

Chanda (Madhya Pradesh ) is justified in superannuating Shri Salam 
Mallaya , Mining Sirdar on the 9th August, 1967 ? If not, to what rellef 
is the workman entitled ? 


2 . Sallam Mallaya was a Mining Sirdar in Sasti Colliery of the Ballarpur 
Colli: ries Company which has Head office at Nagpur. The Colliery is situated 
in district Chanda (Maharashtra ştate ) . Sallam Mallaya had been in the service of 
the Colliery for about 40 years and as a Mining Sirdar for about 25 years . The 
Certified Standing Orders of the Company has & Clause No . 20 ( 4 ) that a work 
man may be superannuated after attaining the age of 55 years . In the records 
of the company his date of birth is recorded as 20th July 1907. He holds an 
Underground Sirdar s Certificate issued by the Mining Department which is 
dated 15th April, 1943 ( Ex . E / 1 ) . While issuing the certificate of Atness his 
age was recorded as 38 years . The management, both on the basis of the under 
ground Sirdar s CortiAcate and the recorded age in the Identity Card found that 
Sallam Mallaya has crossed 60 years of age which was more by five years than 
the superannuation age under the Standing Orders . Further under Regulation 
28 of the Coal Mines Regulations the stand taken by the management was that 
he could not be retained as a Sirdar after 60 years of age . Consequently , the 
management by their letter dated 9th August , 1967 superannuated Sallam Mallaya 
with immediate effect. He collected all his dues , quarterly bonus, earned 
wages and notice pay , all in the month of August. The Bombay Pradesh Mine 
Workers Union by letter dated 12th September, 1967 raised a dispute of superan 
nuation of 8 workers including Sallam Mallaya . Concillation proceedings took 
place from 23rd September, 1967 and the management was represented by one 
Sri Sriniwasan , Special Oficer , and the Union by the Secretary , Sri R , D . Singh . 
For Sallam Mallaya the Union was satisfied that the superannuation was justified 


- 


- 


385. THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 (Part II — 

- 

= - - - - 
but insisted for payment of dues including Profit Bonus. The management 
after checking up the position paid the Profit Bonus also on 28th Septeniber, 
1967 as agreed . Another Union , Maharashtra Colllery Workers Union , of which 
Sallam Malaya claims to be a member , It apeart sent a communication to the 
management on 19th August by reason of the arbitration award of Dr. B . D . 
Sharma dated 30th December , 1963 that Sallam Mallaya before superannuation 
should have been given a letter for determination of age by the Civil Surgeon . 
It may be mentioned that on the question of superannuation age under 
Cl. 20 ( 4 ) ( a ) of the Standing Orders of a certain number of workers a dispute was 
raised by this Union , Maharashtra Colliery Workers Union . There was arbitra 
tion agreement under the Code of Discipline on 1st November, 1963 ( EX , W / 3 ). 
" The specific matter referred to arbitrator was whether the management of Ballar 
pur, Sasti and Ghugus Collieries was justified in superannuating oid workers 
under the provisions of the Standing Orders and il not to what relief are the 
workers entitled . The then Conclliation Officer who was the Arbitrator recor 
ded an award on 30th December , 1963 (Ex . W / 4 ). He directed that before 
the first notice iş giver for superannuation , the management should 
require proof of age either of School Leaving Certificate or from the Civil 
Surgeon , Chanda and if requested by the worker a letter for the Civil Surgeon 
shall be given by the management. The Union complained that without com 
plying with this provision Sallam Mallaya has been pre -emptorily super 
annuated just because he had incurred displeasure of the management by 
deposing in a case of onę Dr. Mastę before this Tribunal, Case No . CGIT / LC ( R ) 
( ! ) / 67. He had given his statement for Dr. Maste and against the management 
in May, 1967 and Sallam Mallaya had to pay the price by superannuation after 
a couple of months in August, 1967. It was contended that the action of the 
management was malafide with a view to victimise him . 

3 . The stand taken up by the employers was that there was no necessity to 
refer him to the Civil Surgeon for proof of age as by the certificate of the Mining 
Department issued as far back as 15th April, 1943, his age was over 62 years and 
So was in records of the Company . The arbitration award of Dr . Sharma was 
inapplicable inasmuch as it was under Code of Discipline and pertainer to the 
case of certain specific workers . It s application cannot be extended to the present 
case . It was further alleged that the dispute has already been conciliated at the 
Instance of Bombay Pradesh Mines Workers Union and the management had ini 
plemented the same. It is not open for another Union to take up the dispute . 
The competency of the Union to raise the dispute was also challenged . The alle . 
gations of malafide and motive of victimisation were denied . On these pleas cf 
the parties , the following additional issues were framed : 


Issues : 
( 1) Is the reference bad for misdescription of State of Sasti Colliery ? 
(2 ) (a ) Was Sallam Mallaya member of Maharashtra Colliery Workers 

Union at relevent time? 
( b ) Whether this Union has representative capacity to sponsor the dis 

pute ? 
(c ) Whether the dispute had been conciliated and closed by another 

Union Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers Union and cannot be reagi 

tated by another Union ? 
(d ) Is the dispute not an industrial dispute ? 
( 3 ) What is the affect of the award of Dr. B . D . Sharma? 
( 4 ) Was the conduct of the employers in refusing a letter for medical exa 

mination to Civil Surgeon unjustified . Its effect ? 
(5 ) Are the employers debarred from continuing the worker in employment 

by ieason of Section 28 of the Mines Act and could superannuation 

under Clause 20 ( 4 ) of the Standing Orders ? 
(6 ) Whether Sallam Mallaya accepted full and final payment and is estopped 

from challenging superannuation ? 
( 7 ) Whether the superannuation was malafide and to victimise him ? 
Findings : 

Issue No . 1 . — The plea has been raised on the ground that in the order of re. 
Ierence , Sasti Colliery , P . O . Ballarpur Distt . Chanda has been described within 
Madhya Pradesh , whereas actually it lies in Maharashtra . The wrong description 


Sec. 3(1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3855 


of the State in the order of reference and in the issue under reference does not, 
affect validity of the reference . The issue is answered in negative . 

Issue No . 2 ( a ) , (b ) and (d ), - Sallam Mallaya has proved the membership of the 
Union by coming in evidence and Alling subscription receipts , Ex . W / 9A to 9 / R . 
These are a number of receipts ranging from year 1965 onwards. The fact is 
further proved by the evidence of the Joint Secretary of the Union , Sri Pursottam 
Bhanudas ( W . W . 2 ) who brought Counterfoil receipt books as also accounts books 
of the Union . The Membership Register was filed in Dr. Maste s case, No . CGIT / 
LC ( R ) ( 1 ) / 67, and is still a part of the record of that case . The Joint Secretary 
has admitted that the membership from this Colliery is only 604- 70 and has not 
increased so far , but that does not affect the competency of the Union . It may be 
noted that during conciliation proceedings the management did not challenge the 
competency of the Union to raise the dispute . They raised other points but not 
the competency of the Union . It , therefore , does not lie in their mouth to contend .. 
that the Union was not competent and does not possess representative capacity . The 
clispute , therefore, is an industrial dispute . 

Issue No . 2 ( c ). — The dispute undoubtedly was raised by the Bombay Pradesh . 
Mines Workers Union in conciliation as would appear from the letter of the 
Union dated 12th September 1967 (Ex . E / 4 ) . The concillation proceedings report 
dated 23rd September 1967 ( Ex . E / 5 ) shows that the dispute was conciliated and 
then Union agreed to accept the stand of the management but pressed for pay 
ment of dues to the workers by a certain date and which was accepted by the 
management. That, however , does not debar the other Union , Maharashtra Colliery 
Workers Union , to raise the dispute again . The worker may be a member of two 
unions and the other union can also raise a dispute . It is for the management to 
bring the fact before the Conclliation Officer that the same dispute had been con 
sidered and conciliated at the instance of another Union and it is for the Concilia 
tion Ofcer to bring the fact to the notice of the Government in his concillation 
tailure report . The management did not bring the fact to the notice of the Con 
clliation Officer , with the result that there is no mention in the conciliation failure 
report about the earlier conciliation initiated by Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers 
Union . There is no legal impediment for the other union to raise the dispute . It 
is , however , a different matter what view is taken on merits of the dispute in 
the background of earlier conciliation at the instance of another union . 

Issue No . 3 . - It may be that the actual dispute before the Conclliation Officer , 
Dr. B . D . Sharma, was with regard to certain workers of two collieries only , but 
the agreement ( Ex . E / 3 ) to abide by his arbitration shows that it was a general 
une with regard to all the workers of the three collieries of Ballarpur, Sasti and 
Ghugus in the matter of superannuation under Standing Order Ci. 20 (4 ) ( a ). The 
award Ex. W / 4 also shows that the direction given by the arbitrator Dr. Sharma 
was of general nature for all workmen to be superannuated under this clause of: 
the Standing Orders. The direction , however , had no statutory binding force as 
It was only under Code of Discipline . The management could legally depart from 
the conventional practice recommended by the arbitrator in a Just and proper case 
and where the bonafides are not in doubl. The whole thing will depend on the 
bonafides of the management, 

Issues No . 4 , 5 , 6 and 7 . - - The management had good grounds to presume that , 
Sallam Mallaya had crossed the age of 60 years. There was an Underground Sirdar s 
CertiAcate issued on 8th March , 1943 ( Ex , E / 1 ) in which his age was recorded as 
38 years . This is revaildated after a medical test every 5 years and the fuct was 
admited by Sallam Mallaya himself . He did not care to challenge the fact of any 
inaccuracy in age as recorded in this certificate . Apart from this , his date of 
birth specifcally had been mentioned as 20th July 1967 in the records of the Com 
pany which he never cared to set it corrected . This was evidently because the 
age was lower than recorded in the Underground Sirda s Certificate . He had 
crossed 60 on either of the two basis . There was no point in the management re 
quiring Sallam Mallaya to get hlıself medically examined by the Civil Surgeon , 
and procuring proof of age . The bonafides were accepted by the other Union , 
Bombay Pradesh Mine Workers Union , when the matter was taken up in conci- - 
liation by this Union . The evidence of Sri Sriniwasan ( E . W . 1 ) Special Officer 
who took part in the conciliation procedurings that Sallam Mallaya himself was 
present appears to be worthy of acceptance . Sallam Mallaya cannot be believed 
that the Union would take up the dispute without his knowledge and consent or 
that he was not even a member of that union . The fact that Şallam Mallaya ac 
cepted payment of all the dues viz ., quarterly bonus and notice pay on 18th and 
19th August, 1967 Indicates that he accepted the validity of superannuation . In .. 
furtherance of the conciliation settlement he was paid Profit Bonus for 1965 -66 
on 28th September 1967 as stated in paragraph 12 of the written statement of the 


2 - . . . 

. . . . 


3856 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 [PART D . 

- 
employers . The payment is proved by the evidence of the Manager, Sri Kumar 
Higher Limsay , and the Wages Payment Register (Ex . E / 6 ). Although principle 
of estoppel and acquiescence is seldom attracted in industrial adjudication yet in 
a fit and proper case a worker cannot be allowed to go back from a position 
which he had voluntarily accepted . Sallam Mallaya had evidently crossed 60 years 
or age and under Sec . 28 of the Mines Act it was not open for the management 
to have continued him in employment. Just because he had deposed for Dr. Maste 
a few months earlier is no ground to suppose that he was victimised . The question 
of victimisation comes in only where the action taken is not at all justified on 
nerits and the motives of the employment are oblique. This is not the case here . 
It is , therefore , held that the employers were justified in refusing a letter for 
medical examination to Civil Surgeon and to superannuate Sallam Mallaya under 
Clause 20 ( 4 ) of the Standing Orders and Sec. 28 of the Mines Act, that there was 
no malafide on the part of employers and that Sallam Mallaya had accepted full 
and final payment out of his free will and in this case cannot be permitted to 
reagitate the matter through another Union . 


Decision : - - 

The management of Sasti Colliery was justified in superannuating Sri Sallam 
Mallaya with effect from 9th August, 1967 and he is not entitled to any relief, 
No order for costs . 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer . 

29 - 7 - 1968 
[No. 3 / 2 / 68 -LRII. ] 


S . O . 2867. - Inpursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrjal Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Bird s Saunda D Colliery , Post Office Bhurkunda , District Dhan 
bad and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 
6th August , 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

LABOUR COURT AT DHANBAD 


In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

REFERENCE No, 71 OF 1967 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bird s Saunda D Colliery , P . O . Bhurkunda , 
District Dhanbad . 

VS. 

Their Workmen 
PRESENT : 

Shri Kamla Sahal, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers. - - Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate. 

For the Workmen . - Shri B K . Lath , Advocate . 
STATE ; Bihar , 

INDUSTRY ; Coal. 
Dhanbad , dated the 27th July 1968 

AWARD 
The Central Government has made this reference under its order No. 2 / 130 / 67 
LRII , dated the 1st December , 1967 for adjudication of the Industrial dispute as 
mentioned in the schedule which is as follows : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Bird s Saunda D Colliery , P . O . Bhurkunda , 

District Hazaribagh , Bihar was justified , in stopping from work Shri 
Mahadeo , General Mazdoor with effect from the 26th July , 1967 ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


0681 z vyavHQ /8961 + 2 Isony : VIONI JO ALLAZV CHL ( TI ) E " 314 3857 


1 , 


2 . The facts of the case are rather short. Shri Mahadeo , the concerned work 
man , was working as prop mazdoor in the Bird s Saunda D Colliery . The 
management s case is that he worked as such from the year 1958 but the union s 
case is that he worked sometimes as prop mazdoor and sometimes as pump 
mistry from 1955 . This difference between the two parties does not appear to 
be material for the purposes of the case. 

3 . It is the admitted case of both parties that Shri Mahadeo met with an 
accident on 13th August 1963 as a result of which his spine was fractured . He 
was medically treated in Naisarai Ramgarh Hospital and the Central Hospital of 
the Coal Mines Welfare Organisation at Jagjiwannagar , Dhanbad but was not 
cured in those hospitals . Hence he went, in due course , to the Sadar Hospital 
at Ranchi at his own cost. He admittedly remained there until 25th May , 1966 
when he was discharged . 

4 . It seems that there was the question of assessment of the disablement of 
Mahadeo under Workmen s Compensation Act. He addressed a letter ( Ext. M . 2 ) 
dated 22nd November, 1966 to the Manager of the Colliery , requesting him that 
he should be sent to a Medical Board at Ranchi Sadar Hospital for assessment. 
Among other things , he has said in that letter that the Medical Board , Central 
Hospital, Dhanbad , had assessed his permanent disablement at 15 per cent loss 
in earning capacity in respect of the fracture of his 8th Dorsal Vertebrae but he 
was feeling pain on his 8th Dorsal spine and he said that his total disablement 
came from this that he had lost his earning capacity by 100 per cent. 

5 . It appears that the Manager of the Colliery made enquiries by a letter 
dated 25th January , 1967 and Dr. R . Pragad of Ranchi Sadar Hospital gave the 
reply ( Ext. W , 5 ) dated 28th January , 1967 in which he said as follows - 
" Sri Mahadeo Prasad was admitted on 2014 March , 1965 for pain back of 2 

years duration . There was an old compression fracture of 8 D . 
Spine for which an operative treatment was done . He was dischar 
ged on 25th April, 1966 with a spinal trace . He is At for light duties . 

He still complains of pain on straining his back " . 
6 . Mahadeo wrote a letter (Ext. M . 1 ) dated 24th April, 1967 to the Manager 
of the colliery . The important parts of this letter are as follows : 
" More than a month ago I have applied your kind mercy to provide me 

with light job at surface as per your advice and instruction . " But 
regret much I have not been heard any consideration to my case as 

yet , for this reason I am suffering much in this hard days . 
" Will you therefore look into my miserable condition , by giving me any so 
that I could save from this starvation " . 


7 . The workmen s case as put by the Kranti-Kari Koyala Mazdoor Sangh is 
that, on discharge from Ranchi Sadar Hospital, Mahadeo was employed again in 
the colliery from 29th January, 1967 and was given work sometimes as Chaprasi 
and some- times as pump khalasi. He became a member of the Kranti-Kari 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh and , therefore, the management stopped him from work 
with effect from 26th July , 1967 . 

8 . The management s case, on the other hand , is that Mahadeo pleaded for 
mercy and prayed for some employment in which his duty would be light. They 
have referred to the letter (Ext. M . 1 ) dated 24th April, 1967 in support of this 
Allegation . Their case further is that he was given light work for some time but 
he was never given the work of a Chaprasi. He did some work for the company 
intermittently from the 27th April, upto the 25th July , 1967 but, as no light work 
was available after 25th July , 1967, Mahadco was not given any such work from 
26th July , 1967 onwards. 

At the hearing, the parties have fled sone documents which have been 
marked exhibits. The workman has examined only himself as W . W . 1 . The 
mnanagement has examined two witnesses . Dr. Sontosh Kumar Ghose ( M . W . 1 ) 
18 the present Manager of the Colliery M . W . 2 is Shri J . Chakraborty , Time 
Keeper in the colliery . 

10 . Nothing turns upon the question whether Mahadeo worked before his 
Accident as prop mazdoor only or sometimes as prop mazdoor and sometimes as 
pump mistry . It is , therefore , unnecessary to consider the evidence on this 
point. The Union has put in evidence several letters by which Krantikari 
Koyala Mazdoor Sangh raised this dispute on behalf of Mahadeo . This appears 


3898 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART 1 


to be correct and I need not discuss this point further . The questions which re 
quire consideration may be formulated as follows: 
( 1 ) Can Mabadeo be deemed to have continued in service and can his ser 

vice conditions be held to have continued after his accident in 1963 ?. 
( ii ) Did the old service conditions of Mahadeo revive when he joined the 

colliery again ? 
Did he join the colllery on the 29th January , 1967 as alleged by the union 

or on the 27th April, 1967 as alleged by the managent? 
( lit) Was the act of the managent in not giving work to Mahadeo with 

effect from 26th July , 1967 unjustified ? 
Point Nos. (i) and ( ii) : 

11. It is convenient to take up these questions together . It is obvious from 
Ext. M . 1 dated 24th April, 1967 that Mahadeo as not given any employment in 
the colliery before that date . He, therefore , begged the manager for mercy in 
order to save him from starvation . He did not then stand upon his rights , 
and claim to be entitled to his old employment on his old service conditions. The 
Manager could only have given him some employment after that date . It is, 
therefore , extremely probable that Mahadeo got employment in the colliery with 
effect from 27th April, 1967 as alleged by the company . I hold accordingly . In 
fact, Mahadeo has examined himself and has himself said in his evidence that he 
rejoined the company in April , 1967 after getting over his accident, 

12 . Mr. Lath , Advocate , appearing on behall of the workman , has vehemently 
argued that, since the company never terminated the service of Mahadeo , he 
must be deemed to have continued in service all along even after his accident and 
his service conditions must also be deemed to have continued to be the same 
as before the accident. I am unable to accept this argument. Unless an em 
ployee is capable of rendering service. It is diffcult to see how he can be said 
to continue in service . Both sides have obligations in the case of service . The 
employee has the obligation to render service and the employer has the obligation 
to honour and fulAl the service conditions of the employee . In my opinion , it is 
not legally necessary for the employer to put a formal order of termination of 
service if this service comes to an end by reason of the fact that the employee 
become incapable of rendering service of the kind which he had agreed to render 
or was rendering . Reliance may be placed in this connection on the decision of 
the Supreme Court in the case of the Workmen of the Bangalore Woollen , Cotton . 
and Silk Mills Co., Ltd ., Vs. Its management, reported in 1962 ( I ) L .LJ. 213 . Al 
though their Lordships were concerned in that case with the question of re 
trenchment. Sarlar J. who delivered the judgment of the Court, observed : 
" It seems to us that a service cannot be said to be terminated unless it was 

capable of being continued . If it is not capable of being continued .. 
that is to say , in the same manner in which it had been going on 
before, and it is, therefore, brought to an end, that is not a termina 
tion of the service . It is the contract of service which is terminated 
and that contract requires certain physical fitness in the workmen . 
Where, therefore , a workman is discharged on the ground of ill 
health , it is because he was unfit to discharge the service which he 
had undertaken to render and therefore it had really come to an 

end itself" . 
13 . In the present case , Mahadeo was undoubtedly discharged from the Ranch ! 
Sadar Hospital but the Doctor s letter ( Ext. W . 5 ) shows that he still complained 
of pain when he strained his back so that he was only At for light work . This 
means that he was not At to resume his old duties. He was, therefore , not en 
titled to his old service conditions. Indeed , he has himself stated in ( Ext. M . 2 ) 
that his disablement was total because the loss of his earning capacity was 100 
per cent. 

14 . In his evidence . Mahadeo does not say that he got his old wages when 
the company employed him after his discharge from the Hospital. He says that 
he got the pay of the work which he did . The evidence of M . W . 1 ånd M . W . 2 
shows that Mahadeo did not work continuously , but he worked only intermittently 
during the period from the 27th April to 25th July . I do not see any good rcason 
not to accept the erldence of these witnesses. 

15 . It is , therefore, clear that he was not in regular service even during the 
above period . Coriously . the manager had taken pity on him and had given him 
whatever light employiyent was available at any particular time. In these circum 
stances , it is impossible lo accept Mr. Lath s argument that Mahadeo s service 


Sic. 57 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3859 


conditions were the same in 1967 as they were before his accident in 1963. In my 
opinion , Mahadeo was only entitled on being employed in 1967 to get the wages 
for whatever he did and not to get the company forced to give him his old work . 


16 . I, therefore , hold that neither his service nor his service conditions con 
tinued after his accident and consequent disablement to render service as before. 
His service conditions cannot also be held to have been revived on his being given 
some light work sometimes by the management in 1967 which he performed in 
termittently . 


Point No. (iii) : 

17 . It follows from the Andings which I have recorded above that Mahadeo 
was not entitled as a matter of right to get employment from the company in 
1987 . The management was, therefore justified in not giving work to or stop 
ping Mahadeo from work with effect from 28th July , 1967. The case of victimisa 
tion of Mahadeo on account of his having become a member of the Kranti -Kari 
Koyla Mazdoor Sangh Is manifestly without substance because he admits in his 
evidence that he was a member of that union when the company gave him work 
in April, 1987. The second question put in the schedule does not arise for congl 
deration , 


18 . This is my award . It may be submitted to the Cental Government under 
section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

(Sd.) KAMLA SAHAI, 

Presiding Officer 
[No. 2 / 130 / 67 -LRII. ) 


S . O . 2868. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited , Bhowra Colliery , 
P . O . Bhowra, District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the 
Central Government on the 5th August, 1968, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 


In the matter of a reference under section 10 ( 1) (d ) of the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947. 


REFERENCE No. 53 OF 1967 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited, Bhowra 

Colliery , P .O . Bhowra , District , Dhanbad , 


Their Workmen 


PRESENT : 

Shri Kamla Şahai, Presiding Officer . 


APPEARANCES : 


For the Employer: Shri K . C . Nankeolyar, Dy . Chlef Personnel Officer. 
For the Workmen : Shrį Prasanta Burman , Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress 


3860 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 (Part II 
1 - . _ - - - - - - - .... : E . :- - -- - - - -- - - - = = 

- - = : . . . - - - - - - = = = 
STATB : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Camp : Bombay, dated the 12th July , 1908 

AWARD 


By Jrder No . 2 / 27 /67-LRII dated the 14th November, 1967, the Central 
Governnent made this relerence 10 n18 Tribunal for adjudication of a dispute 
narnito in the schedule wnion is as follows : 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Shri Rabi Mahato , Sand Conveyor by the 

management of Bhowra Colliery of Bhowrah Kankanee Collieries 
Limited with effect from the 25th December , 1966 was justified ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


2 . BY a Corrigendum dated the 4th January, 1968 , the year 1986 mentioned 
in the schedule has been altered to 1964. The question for adjudication , there 
fore , ie " whether the dismissal of Rabi Mahato with effect from the 25th Decen 
ber , 1964 was justified ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


3 . Shortly stated , the employers cage is that this is a case of individual and 
not industrial dispute because the concerned workman was not a member of 
the Khan Mazdoor Congress at any time before his dismissal from service or 
soon thereafter . It is unnecessary to consider this point at any length because 
it is obvious that Rabi Mahato became a member of the Khan Mazdoor Con 
gress before the reference in as much as the unionl ( the Congress ) startd rais 
ing & dispute in connection with the workman with effect from the 19th Novem 
ber , 1965 , when the General Secretary wrote a letter to the Asstt. Labour Com 
missioner (Central) , alleging that he had been working continuously from the 
11th May, 1964 but had not been paid his wages . It has been laid down in the 
case of Workmen of Jamadoba Colliery versus Jamadoba Colllery of M / s . Tata 
Iron and Steel Co . Ltd ., Jamadoba, reported in 1987 ( II ) L . L . J . 683, that the 
crucial date is the date of the reference and that, if the workman concerned be 
comes a member of the union before that date , the reference must be held to be 
valid because the dispute turns from an individual dispute into an industrial 
dispute . 


1. As to the merits of the case , the employers have stated that Rabi Mahato 
had been working as a sand conveyor mazdoor in Bhowra Colliery ; that the 
sand conveyor mazdoor is an unskilled mazdoor in the lowest category i. e ., 
category I and he is liable to be transferred to any other job of a mazdoor 
if that is done without causing him any prejudice as to his wages and service 
conditions , that Shri P . G . Ghosh , Engineer , (MW1) was incharge of the work 
shop , sand line including the conveyor, underground and surface installations 
of electrical and mechanical machines in the mine ; that the men working in these 
places were under his control, that he transferred Rabi Mahato from the posi 
con of conveyor mazdoor to that of a mazdoor in the moulding section of the 
colliery workshop but Rabi Mahato did not obey ; that an official order of 
transfer was then made in writing on the 9th March , 1963 by the Manager ; 
that Rabi Mahato disobeyed that order also and remained absent from duty ; 
that a chargesheet was then served upon him and , at the conclusion of the 
domestic enquiry , he was punished with suspension for eight days; that he re 
mained absent even after the period of suspension was over and that , in all, he 
remained absent for about 14 months inspite of the fact that the Chief Agent 
sent him a letter (Ext. M 19 ) advising him to join his work and promising to 
show him leniency . The employers case further is that Rabi Mahato sent a 
letter ( Ext. M 20 ) dated the 9th July , 1963 , expressing regret and promising 
to join the moulding section of the workshop but he did not keep his promise 
and did not join . Chargesheet No. 148 / 63 / 5 was drawn up against him but 
he was let off with a warning in the hope that he would behave better . 

5 . At his own request and at the request of the Conciliation Officer ( C ) and 
Labour Enforcement officer , the management allowed him to join ay conveyor 
mazdoor and not ag a mazdoor in the moulding section of the workshop with 


SEC . 3 (**) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 /BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3861 


effect from the 11th May, 1964. On the 14th May i.e ., on the fourth day , how 
ever , Shri P . G . Ghosh , (MW 1 ) ordered him to do the work of belt cleaning 
but he refused to carry out that order . Although such orders are usually given 
verbally , he asked for a written order . Thereafter, he began to absent bimself 
again without leave and without permission , 

6 . It is also the case of the employers that, on the 5th August, 1964, Rabi 
Mahato suddenly appeared at the place of his previous work and forcibly tried 
to take hold of the chute and the operator s place from the man who was then 
doing the work and kept the chute stopped for about four hours . It was with 
great difficulty that the Welfare Officer and the Asstt. Engineer persuaded him 
to let go the chute . The management thereupon issued chargesheet No. 216 / 84 / 8 
( Ext. M21 and W1) dated the 5th August, 1964 against him . His reply is 
Ext. M22 and W2, dated the 14th August, 1964. The reply was not considered 
satisfactory and thereupon Shri K . C . Nankeolyar (MW 3 ) , then Welfare Officer , 
was asked to conduct the enquiry . He fixed 29th August , 1964 for enquiry but 
Rabi Mahato did not appear on that date and , at the suggestion of the Manager , 
MW 3 postponed the enquiry to 15th September , 1964 . The same thing happened 
on that date and the enquiry was again postponed at the instance of the Manager 
to 16th December, 1964 . It is alleged by the employers that Rabi Mahato was 
present at the time when Shri P . G . Ghosh , (MW 1 ) was being examined before 
the Enquiry Officer but he left at that time, saying that the Enquiring Officer could 
do whatever he liked . The Enquiring Omcer then proceeded to conclude the 
enquiry ex -parte in the absence of Rabi Mahato . On 21st December , 1964 , he 
submitted his report ( Ext. M 38 ) , holding that the guilt of Rabi Mahato according 
to the chargesheet had been proved . On the basis of this report , the Manager 
recommended Rabi Mahato s dismissal and the Agent approved it . It was accord 
ingly conveyed to Rab ! Mahato by a letter dated the 25th December , 1964 that he 
was being dismissed from the company s service with effect from that date . The 
letter conveying the order of dismissal (Ext . M 30 ) was served upon Rabi Mahato 
by the peon (MW 4 ) through the Peon Book (Ext M 43) . 


7 . It is further said that Rabi Mahato started harassing the Chuto operator in 
July , 1966 and , therefore , tne Manager sent him a letter (Ext. M 39 ) dated the 
27th July , 1986 , saying that he had already been dismissed and hence he had no 
business to harass the workmen of the company and that, if he continued in 
tliat course , the management would be compelled to take Police help . A copy 
of the letter (Ext. M 30 ) was enclosed with this letter . The union s case is that 
Rabi Mahato was first informed about his dismissal when he received a copy of 
the dismissal letter ( Ext. M 30 ) along with the letter ( Ext. M 39 ) . On this basis , 
the union raised a dispute abort Rabi Mahato s dismissal by a letter dated the 
18th August , 1966 addressed to the Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) , Dhanbad , 
It is alleged on behalf of the employers that the union s case that the workman 
was informed about his dismissal for the first time by the copy of the dismissal 
letter which was sent along with Ext. M 39 is altogether false and has been made 
only with a view to cover up the great delay in raising the dispute . 

8 . The union , Khan Mazdoor Congress, has Aled a written statement on behalt 
of the workman . No reference has been made in it about what happened before 
11th June , 1964 . It secms that the incidents of 1963 are not disputed . Indeed , 
Rabi Mahato has examined himself as WW 5 . He has admitted that, when he 
did not comply with the order of transfer to the workshop , & chargesheet wag 
issued to him and he received it . He says that there was no enquiry in connec 
tion with that chargesheet but, as I will presently show , an enquiry was in fact 
held by Shri B . M . Lal, (MW 2 ) and he participated in that enquiry. He does 
not admit that he was suspended for eight days as a punishment at the conclusion 
of that enquiry but he admits that he remained idle without doing any work for 
the company for about fourteen months and that the company did not give him 
anything as wages for that period . 

9 . It has been alleged in the workman s written statement that he has been 
frequently given orders of transfer on account of the management s displeasure 
with him for his trade union activities . It proceeds further to mention that the 
concerned workman was transferred to work as a sand line conveyor Mazdoor 
from 11th May , 1984 , that he joined his duty as such but only four days later i. e ., 
on the 16th May , 1984 , he was verbally ordered to do the different job of belt 
cleaner , that he wanted & written order for the change in his job but the manage 
ment refused to give him any such order and stopped marking his attendance 


3862 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [Part 11 

- -. - - - - - - - - - - - 
from that date and withheld his wages , that a chargesheet was issued to him on 
5th August, 1964 and he gave a reply on 14th August, 1964, that the management 
did not get any enquiry held into the chargesheet nor did it pass any order for 
about two years , that an industrial dispute was raised by the union on his behalf 
for non - payment of wages , that at the instance of the Asstt. Labour Commis 
sioner ( C ) , Dhanbad . II , he filed claim application No. PW 15 of 1966 on 21st 
June , 1966 before the Labour Court at Ranchi and that the management then sent 
him a letter dated 27th July . 1966 enclosing & copy of an alleged letter of dis 
missal dated the 25th December, 1964 which he received on the 2nd August , 1966 . 
It is also alleged that, prior to the 2nd August , 1966 , Rabi Mahato had abso 
lutely no knowledge about his alleged dismissal. It is said that the entire pro 
ceedings of the enquiry are fabricated and so the letter of dismissal. On the 
basis of these allegations, it is prayed that the alleged dismissal of Rabi Mahato 
of the 25th December , 1964 be held to be unjustified , 

10 . At the hearing, each party has Aled a number of documents . Each party 
has also examined five witnesses. It is necessary for me to discuss the oral and 
documentary evidence and then to reach my conclusions. The points which can 
be formulated for consideration are as follows : 
(i) Did Rabi Mahato continue to work as an employee of the company after 

the 14th May, 1984 ? 
( 11 ) Does the evidence establish that Rabi Mahato has been harassed or 

victimised by the management ? 
( 11 ) Was a domestic enquiry held by Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar (MW 3 ) in 

connection with chargesheet No. 216 / 64 / 8 dated the 5th August, 1984 
on the 16th December , 1964 and is it a fact that Rabi Mahato was 
present at the enquiry at the time of examination of Shri P . G . 

Ghosh (MW 1 ) and then went away of his own accord ? 
( iv ) Is it true that Rahi Mahato did not know about his dismissal until the 

2nd August , 1966 when he received a copy of the dismissal letter 
dated the 25th December . 1964 along with the management s letter 

dated the 27th July , 1968 ? 
(v ) Is the order of dismissal passed against Rabi Mahato justified ? 

Points (i) and ( li ) 
11 . It will be convenient to take up these points together . It will be necessary 
to consider the events of 1963 before I consider these two points . 

12 . The Company s case is that Rabi Mahato was previously working as sand 
fine conveyor mazdoor . In March , 1963, Shri P . G . Ghosh (MW 1 ) who was in 
control of that section as well as the workshop and other sections, ordered his 
transfer from the sand line to the moulding section of the workshop . Rabi 
Mahato refused to obey that order and thereupon an official order of transfer 
( Ext. M 5 ) dated the 9th March , 1963 was passed by the Manager . Robi Mahato 
did not carry out that order also . Chargesheet No. 45 /63 / 5 ( Ext. M 9 ) was 
issued to him . He gave a reply Ext. ( W 11 ) on the 8th April, 1963 to the letter, 
conveying the order of his transfer . He stated therein that he did not know 
anything about the work of moulding mazdoor and, therefore , he could work 
as conveyor mazdoor and not as a mazdoor in the moulding section . Any -way, 
domestic enquiry was ordered to be held by Shri B , M . L .al (MW 2 ) . He ac 
cordingly conducted the enquiry and recorded the statements of several persons 
including that of Rabi Mahato . He has proved that all the statements have 
been written by his clerk , Shri D . N . Singh , at his dictation . The three state 
ments have been marked as Exts . M 23 . M 24 and M 25 . He also says that Rabi 
Mahato made over to him the petition ( Ext. M 20 ) , which according to him was 
written by Ram Mitra of the C . P . I. MW 2 has proved the handwriting 
in the petition (Ext. M . 20 ) to be in the pen of Ram Mitra . In this 
petition , Rabi Mahato expressed regret and also expressed his willingness to 
join work as conveyor mazdoor . There can be no doubt that this petition was 
written on his behalt but he has denied in his evidence that it was a petition 
written on his behalf or Aled by him . In any case. he did not ont unon it and 
he did not join his duty . Admittedly . he continued to be ahsant. from duty for 
About fourteen months including the period of eight dave from the 1st to the 
Ath May . 1983 when he was ordered to remain suspended as punishment for 
disobedience of the orders of transfer. He wrote letters ( Exts . M 16 and M 17 ) 


Suc . ) ( u ); THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968/ BHADRA 2, 1890 3863 
-- - 1 - S G H - S - _ ---T - -- ---- - -- - -- - - - - - -- - - - -- - - .. 

- - - - - 
dated the 2nd May , 1963 to the Chief Agent protesting against his transfer and 
praying for a decision in his case . Ext. M 18 is another letter dated the 10th 
May, 1963. It is rather amusing to find that he has added at the end of his 
petition , " Failure to pass legal judgment to my case within ten days from date 
will oblige me to file d public case against the inanagement" . The Chief Agent 
wrote a letter (Ext. M 19 ) dated the 25th May, 1963 in which he said that Rabi 
Mahato had not yet obeyed the transfer orders and it appeared that he had no 
intention to obey the sane. He added that he wished to make it clear that the 
management had a right to transfer an employee from one work place to another 
without affecting his wages . Towards the end of the letter, the Chief Agent 
said , " even now I would advise you in your own interest to obey the same and 
to report for and join duties in the workshop in the moulding section within 
seven days of the receipt of the letter failing which it shall be considered that 
you were not interested in your employment and the management in that case 
shall be free to terminate your services . In the event of your now resuming your 
duty as advised , I shall still view the matter leniently and condone your absence 
to maintain continuity of your service . I trust you will abide by the advise 
given above" . This letter also does not appear to have had the effect inducing 
Rabi Mahato to join his duty . 


13. It appears that, at the intervention of the Asstt . Labour Commissioner 
and Labour Enforcement Officer , the management withdrcw the order of Rabi 
Mahato s transfer and allowed him to join as conveyor mazdoor on the 11th May, 
1964. Thus, ( 1 ) the Chief Agent gave Rabi Mahato the assurance of leniency 
in 1963 , and ( 2 ) the management further treated him sympathetically by allow 
ing him to join as conveyor mazdoor on the 11th May, 1964 after he had remain 
ed absent without leave and without permission for about fourteen months. 
There actions do not indicate any intention on the part of the management to 
harass or victimise Rabi Mahato . 


14. On the 14th May , 1964, the colliery Engineer, P . G . Ghosh , (MW1), order 
ed Rabi Mahato to clean the conveyor belt. Ho says that some sand gets attached 
to the conveyor belt, when it is being worked and then it becomes necessary to 
clean the belt. He further says that every conveyor mazdoor has to clean the 
belt at one time or the other . There seems to be no reason to disbelieve this 
witness . An attempt has been made on behalf of Rabi Mahato to show that his 
work was only that of chute operator but that cannot be correct because the 
management has described him in its letters es conveyor Mazdoor and he has 
described himself in his letters to the management as conveyor mazdoor It 
was. therefore , clearly his duty to clean the belt and remove the sand . Since 
every convevor mazdoor has do this work . Rabi Mahato was not at all justified 
in asking for a written order or in refusing to do the work . 


15 . Rabi Mahato s case is that, though he did not obey the Engineer s order 
and clean the belt, he continued to do his work as usual on and after the 16th 
May , 1964. On the very face of it, this is rather improbable . On the 16th Mav 
itself, he wrote a letter Ext. W6 ) to the management in reply to a letter which 
the Manager had written to him on the 9th May , 1964 . In this letter, he has said 
that the Manager wanted him to work as sand conveyor mazdoor but the Engineer 
wanted him to work Xs a belt cleaner but, on demand . he refused to give him a 
written order. He makes no mention in that letter that he was continuing to 
work , 


16 . Ext, W7 is another letter dated 25th May 1984 written by Rabi Mahato 
to the Manager . In this letter, he has protested that he had worked for six 
days in the week endine the 16th May . 1964 but his attendance had been booked 
only for four days. He has said that the Engineer has, for some reason , cut two 
days of his attendance and that. If he is a gentleman he should give him ( Rabi 
Mahato ) the reason for cutting the attendance for those two days . It is sieni 
ficant that he does not sav in this letter that he continued to work even after 
the 16th May , 1964 , though that is his case nou . 


17 . The Agent wrote to him a letter ( Ext. W11 ) on the 15th June. 1964 . In 
this letter, the Chief Agent has stated that the management had shown him 
great leniency but it was reported that he had become more erogant and less 
interested in work . It was also reported that he refused to do helt cleaning 
although all the conveyor mazdoors did belt cleaning whenever called upon to 


3864 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 [PART II 

- --- . . - = = -= - * - - - - = N 
do so and, further , the duties of an unskilled worker could not be reduced into 
writing. He has then added the following paragraphs: 
" From the side of management, I assure you that we have no ill feeling 

against you and we will promptly look into any complaint of dis 
crimination if any , shown towards you . However we expect that 
you will also work obediently and diligently at the same time, just 
as other mazdoors are working and will not give any occasion for 

the supervisory staff to report against you " . 
He has then referred to the fact that Rabi Mahato s brother and father were 
also employees of the company and that, inspite of messages sent through them , 
he did not come to the Labour Welfare Officer s office. 

18 . In another letter (Ext. W15 ) which Rabi Mahato addressed to the Chief 
Agent on the 13th August, 1964, he stated for the first time that his attendance 
was not marked after the end of four days after 11th May 1964 , that inspite of 
his regular attendance on duty another man had been deputed to do his work , 
that he had never allowed the other man to do his duty till then but that no 
step had yet been taken to remove the said man or to give him (Rabi Mahato ) 
notice that his service was no longer required. He further added that. at an 
interview with the Chief Agent, the latter had threatened to kill him . The last 
but one paragraph is as follows: - - 
" Please note that a months time is hereby given to you to make a Anal 

decision or else I shall be obliged to refer the matter to Court" , 
19 . No other letter appears to have been written by Rabi Mahato to the 
management. There is , however, a letter sent by the General Secretary of the 
Khan Mazdoor Congress dated the 3rd September, 1964 ( Ext. W16 ) addressed 
to the Conciliation Officer , demanding that Rabi Mahato be paid all his wages 
due to him from 11th May 1964 uptodate . Another letter (Ext. W 17) was also 
sent bv the General Secretary of the union on the 5th September, 1964 to the 
Conciliation Officer ( C ) , demanding that the workman be paid all his wages . 


20 . The company s case is , as I have already said , that Rabi Mahato cersed to 
work from the 15th May, 1964 but he suddenly appeared at his old place of work 
on the 5th August, 1964 , disturbed the man who was working in his place and 
stopped the chute from 3 to 7 P . M . A chargesheet was issued and a domestic 
enquiry was held . Ultimately , Rabi Mahato was dismissed with effect from the 
25th December. 1964 under a letter of the same date . I will deal with these 
allegations in detail later but I may state for the present that it is rather significant 
that, although Rabi Mahato gave the Chief Agent only one month s time from 
the 13th August, 1964 to decide his case , he did not write any letter to the manage 
ment after the 13th August, and the union also does not appear to have written 
any letter to the Conciliation Officer after the 5th September . 1964 . The Arst 
action which appears to have heen taken by the workmen or the union after the 
Alleged date of dismissal i. e . the 25th December . 1964 was that, on the 21st June , 
1966 . about one and a half years latter , application No. P . W . 15 of 1966 was filed 
before the Labour Court, Ranchi, on behalf of Rabi Mahato for recovery of wages 
for the period 11th May , 1964 to 21st June, 1966 . It is rather significant that . 
although Rabi Mahato was in such a great hurry for a decision as shown by his 
letter ( Ext W . 15 ) in August, 1964, he kept absolutely quilte thereafter until about 
one and a half years after the alleged date of his dismissal. There is considerable 
fore , therefore , in the argument on behalf of the company that the fact of his 
silence for such a long time clearly indicates that the letter conveying the order 
of dismissal was served upon him as alleged by the company . 


21. One document ( Ext . W . 18 ) remains to be considered . It purports to be 
a statement made by some conveyor mazdoors to the effect that Rabi Mahato had 
been working all the time from llth May, 1964 but the management had not been 
marking his attendance. This document has been formally proved by Shri B . P . 
Tripathi, (WW . 3 ) , the Organising Secretary of the Khan Mazdoor Congress . He 
has stated in his chief that he took the signatures and thumb impressions of all 
concerned workmen on Ext. W . 18 near the Bhowrą sand conveyor line and that 
they put their signatures and thumb impressions after reading the entire document. 
On being cross examined , he has said that he raised the industrial dispute on 
behalf of Rabi Mahato in December 1966 because he was pelther suspended nor 
dismissed in fact before - hand , that he was always working and that it was not 
true to say that he was dismissed in 1964 . I consider it to be highly improbable 
for a workman to have worked all the time from the 15th May , 1964 to the 21st 


Sic. 3 (1 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 


3865 


11 


June , 1966 in spite of the fact that he did not get any wages . It was necessary for 
him to maintain himself and his family and it is too much to expect that he would 
continue to work for almost two years without payment and without having the 
means of maintaining himself and his family . I, therefore, do not believe the 
statement of this witness which I have just mentioned . He goes further and says 
that Rabi Mahato was stopped from work only on the 2nd August , 1966 when 
the Police arrested him . This would mean that he continued to work in the 
service of the company even after filing his application in the Ranchi Labour 
Court on the 21st June, 1966 . Unless one is extremely credulous , one cannot accept 
such a story On being cross examined about the statement (Ext. W . 18 which 
has been wrongly typed in the deposition as W . 15 ) this witness says that he 
got the petition written . He Arst said that he could not give out its contents 
without reading it. When the document was made over to him , he said that he 
did not know English very well and that he could not read it . It is , therefore , 
clear that the suggestion made to him that he has falsely said that he got teh 
petition written is correct. The petition or statement is in English and , as he 
does not know English , he could not have got it written . If he did not get it 
written , there is no evidence as to who wrote the statement (Ex , W , 18 ) or who 
dictated it. Out of the signatures on this petition , only one namely Lakhan Ram 
Manjhi has been examined as wW . 4 , He has also made the Incredible statement 
that Rabi Mahato continued to operate the chute from the 11th May , 1964 to the 
2nd August, 1966 . I am not prepared to believe him as no one could work for 
such a long time without payment of wages and even after Aling a petition for 
recovery of his wages. 

22 . Rabi Mahato (WW . 5 ) has made a similar statement but he is a highly 
interested witness and I am not prepared to believe the statement because of its 
Improbability . 

23. Dhurab Yoti Das (MW . 5 ) has produced the attendance register for the 
year 1964. He has stated and his statement is supported by the relevant 
entries in the register (Ext. M44) that Rabi Mahato worked in the sand 
line section for only four days in 1964 i. e . from the 11th to the 14th May, 1964 . 
There is no reason at all to disbelieve him . He has hardly been cross -examined . 
The only question which has been put to him is whether he maintains the atten 
dance register and e has said that he does . 

24 . Having considered all the facts and circumstances of the case, I hold that 
Rabi Mahato did not continue to work for the company after he refused to obey 
the order of Shri Ghosh (MW . 1 ) to clean the conveyor belt and the union s case 
in this respect is untrue. I further find that the management showed Rabi Mahato 
great consideration and undoubtedly treated him leniently from time to time. 
His father and brother are still in the service of the company and there is absolutely 
no reason why the management should select only Rabi Mahato for harassment 
and victimisation Transfer orders have not issued to him frequently . He did 
not obey the first transfer order passed in 1963 and he did not carry it out. The 
management still took him back on the intervention of the Asstt . Labour Commis 
sloner and Labour Enforcement Officer and put him on his old job as conveyor 
mazdoor . He says that he was working only as chute operator and it was not 
his business to clean the conveyor belt. MW . 1 has proved that the conveyor 
mazdoor has to clean the belt also MW . 2 has stated - and I do not see why I 
should disbelieve him - - that the jobs of sand conveyor mazdoor , belt cleaner and 
moulding mazdoor are all those of unskilled worker and they are all paid wages 
of category I. He further says that these jobs are inter - chargeable as they are to 
be done under the control of one engineer . 

Point ( lii) 
25 . As I have already said , the company s case is that the colliery Engineer 
(MW 1 ) ordered Habi Mahato to clean the conveyor belt on the 14th May , 1964 
but he refused to do that work and wanted the engineer to gave him a written 
order to that effect. As MW 1 has said , orders of this kind are usually given 
verbally . It also stand , to reason that, when Rabi Mahato was the conveyor 
mazdoor, the cleaning of the conveyor belt must have been a part of his duty in 
that capacity . I do not see why MW 1 would have given him an order in writing . 
The company s case , however , is that Rabi Mahato not only disobeyed the order 
but remained absent from the 15th May This receives considerable support from 
Rabi Mahato s letter ( Ext. W 7 ) dated the 25th May , 1964 in which he claims to 
have worked only for six days i.e . upto the 16th May , 1964. He does not mention 
in the letter that he continued to work even after the 16th . 

26 . The company s cabe further is that Rabi Mahato appeared suddenly at the 
place where he used to work previously pushed a8lde Kailu Gope, (WW 1) and 


3866 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2, 1890 [PART 11 

= - . - . 
stopped the chute for several hours 1. e . from 3 to 7 P .M . It is further alleged 
that, at about 7 P . M ., the Welfare Officer and the Asstt. Engineer persuaded Rabi 
Mahato to leave the place. Kallu Gope says that he is a tyndal mazdoor from 
about ten years and that it is not his business to operate the chute or to clean the 
belt because he is a tyndal. He also says that no one ever asked him to work 
as a chute operator in Rabi Mahato s place and that Rabi Mahato never pushed 
him out at any time when he was working as a chute operater . It is impossible 
to accept that no officer of the company ever asked Kailu Gope to work as a chute 
operator in place of Rabi and , in spite of this fact, the company has alleged that 
he was working as a chute operator in place of Rabi Mahato . 

27. The company issued charge - sheet No. 216 / 64 / S ( Ext. M 21 and W 1 ) on 
the 5th August, 1964 against Rabi Mahato . Shri K C . Nandkeolyar, then Welfare 
Officer , was appointed to hold the enquiry by letter dated the 25th August , 1964 (Ext . 
M 28 ) when the workman s reply ( Ext. M 22 and W 2 ) dated the 14th August, 
1964 was found to be unsatisfactory . The enquiry was first Axed for 29th August , 
1964 but Rabi Mahato did not turn up on that date . Shri Nandkeolyar submitted 
a note ( Ext. M 32 ) in this connection to the Manager who passed an order on that 
note to the effect that one inore chance should be given to Rabi Mahato . The 
enquiry was, therefore , postponed and fixed for the 15th September, 1964. Ext. 
M 27 is the letter issued to Rabi Mahato to that effect. On that date also , Rabi 
Mahato did not attend the enquiry . Shri Nandkeolyar again wrote a note ( Ext. 
M 33) to the Manager . The Manager ordered that another chance should be given 
to him . The enquiry was then fixed for the 16th December, 1984 . Rabi Mahato 
was informed accordingly and he attended the enquiry on that date . He, however , 
remained present only while the statement of Shri P . G . Ghosh , Engineer , ( Ext. 
M 8 ) was recorded . Rabi Mahato left the place of enquiry abruptly when the 
statement was still in the course of being recorded . While he was leaving , Shri 
Nandkeolyar told him that, if he left the place , the enquiry would be conducted 
in his absence and that it would be at his risk that he would leave the place . 
Rabi Mahato replied in Hindi " Apko jhutmut jo kuchvi karna hai kar de yadi ham 
Ja rahe hal" . Shri Nandkeolyar recorded the statement in presence of three 
witnesses namely Jogendra Dubey , Office Peon , Budhụ Mia , union representativo 
and one Jadu Mahato and got their signatures taken after their statements as 
recorded were read over to them . After making the statement just mentioned , 
Rabi Mahato left the place of enquiry , Shri Nandkeolyar proceeded with the 
enquiry and got the statements of V . R . Prahar, Agstt. Engineer , sand line, 
B . M . Lal, Welfare Officer , Dhurab Yoti Das , Register Clerk , Kailu Gope , Conveyor 
mazdoor and Ramu Modak , sand line electric helper recorded by Shri D . N . Singh , 
his clerk , at his dictation . He himself signed all the statements which were 
recorded . The enquiry was then closed with the remark " the enquiry was closed 
as there is none to appear " . The statement of the witnesses just referred to are 
respectively , Exts. M 34 , M 29 , M 35 and M 36 . It may be mentioned that Kallu 
fully supported the company s case in his statement ( Ext. M 36 ) . While cross 
examining Kailu Gope, Shri Nandkeolyar put to him that he himself got his 
statement recorded and took his thumb impression on It but he has denied this 
suggestion , 

28 . All the aforesaid documents have been Aled and have been marked as 
Exts . Shri Nandkeolyar has fully supported the company s case that he held the 
enquiry and got the statement of the witnesses recorded . His evidence is that 
Rabi Mahato attended the enquiry and heard part of the statement of Shri P . G . 
Ghosh (MW 1 ) but went away after saying what I have already mentioned . It 
is difcult to accept the union s suggestion that all the enquiry papers including 
the enquiry officer s report ( Ext. M 38 ) which is a very elaborate one were com 
pletely fabricated . There seems to be no reason for fabrication of these docu 
ments. The company had nothing to lose by giving a chance to Rabi Mahato to 
attend the enquiry and to defend himself . I consider it highly improbable for 
the company to have taken the risk of fabricating the documents . 


29 . Shri Nandkeolyar held in his report (Ext, M 38 ) that Rabi Mahato wag 
guilty of the charges framed against him . On the basis of this report, Rabi 
Mahato was dismissed with the approval of the Agent. This was conveyed to him 
by the Manager by the letter ( Ext. M 30 ) dated the 25th December , 1964. It was 
said that the dismissal would have immediate effect. This letter was sent for 
service with a peon book . Jogendra Dubey, MW 4 is the Welfare Officer s peon 
in Bhowra Colliery. He says that he was present in the office at the time when the 
enquiry relating to Rabi Mahato was held and he proves his signature Ext. M 8 ( A ) 
as well as the thumb impression Ext. M 8 ( b ) of Rabi Mahato at the bottom of the 
Temark noted by Shri Nandkeolyar about the departure of Rabi Mahato after 


LEC . 3 ( ü : j THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24, 1968 / BEADRA 2 , 1890 3867 
- .- .. ....... .- -S 

.... . .-- -- - - -- -... - -- . . -. . . : - -- -- - - - - - - - - - - - 
tellre nini lhat he could do what he lived . He has further proved the thumly 
impression ( Ext. M 43 ) of Rabi Mahato in the peoa book in token of having 
received the letter , conveying to him the order with his diannisaal. On being COSS 
9xamined , he has stated that all the thum ) ingressions of Rabi Mahilo wnich he 
has proved were made in ki presence , There is nothing in his cross - examination 
Lo show tha1, fie is interesivi anainst Fabi Manalo . î do not seen why le angaid 
five faise evidence against :- 17 ( Rabi ) , ) reel thil his evidence is periectly reli . 
able . Shri V . M . Lal (MW ; as proved the entry ( Ext. W 12 ) in the Peor Boolr 
relating to the despatch and receipt of the letter of 4smissai ( E . ML 30 ) . Ho 
has admitted that the thumb impression of Rabi Mahato was not taken in his 
presence but, as I liave just sain , MW 4 has proved tliat the thumb ilmipression 
( Ext. M43) was taken in his presence . Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar has proved that 
Give letier ( Ext . M 39 ) dated the 27th July , 1966 was sent to Rabi Milato by the 
Manager , Shri R . K . Yashraj, because it was reported at about that time thal 
Rabı Mahato was obstructing workers . In this lotter , the Manager has written 
that, since Rabi Mahato had already been dismissed , it woull be necessary for 
the nullageront to take police help in order to stop obstruction of workers by 
lily if he persisted in that course , 


30 . On the other hund , Kaiku Gope (WM 1 ) , has made one stateities belore 
the enquiring officer and has made quite a diffororit gtaternent before in Before 
tha enquiring officer, he stalou that Rabi italrato did noi uitend to his duty in 
the colliery from the 15th May, 1964 . He has said something quite contrary before 
the Tribunal. For this reason and for other reasons which I have given above, I 
disbelieve his evidence . Shri Prasanta Burman , (WW2) has only proved the 
membership register of Khan Mazdoor Congress and its extract ( Ext. W 14 ) . He 
has been examined only to prove that Rabi Mahato was a member of Khan 
Mazdoor Congress . It is unnecessary to consider this evidence because there is 
no doubt that Rabi Mahato was a member of the union on the date of the reference . 
As suun . this is licdoubtedly case of industrial dispute and not an individual 
lisputc 


31. Tuvo ulready dealt wie in live evidence of Sri B . P . Tripathi (WW 3 ) und 
I have found myselt unablu accept his evidence. I wave also dealt with the 
evidence of Lakhan Ram Manjari (WW 4 ) and have not accepted his evidurce. Rabi 
Mahato is the last witness for himself and he is an interested vitness . It is difficult 
to accept his evidence without reliable coiroboration . I may , however , point out 
that he says that one reason why the operation of tho sand line may be stopped is 
that the bunker becomes fall with sanil. That being 80 . the conveyor mazdoor 
must clean the conveyor belt az i sand for , otherwise , the onlire operation may stop . 

32 . As I have said , the icry fact that Rabi Mahato wino wrote pressing letters 
to the management upto 13th August 1984 did not writo any other letter for about 
one and a half years indicates that he wos duly informed about his cismissal on 
the 25th December , 1964. 

33 . On a careful consideration of the facts and circuinstances of the case , I 
hold that Shri Nandkeolyar held the enquiry in accordance with principles of natural 
justice , that Rabi Mahato attended the enquiry while Shri P . G . Ghosh was being 
examined and that thereafter he left the place of enquiry abruptly , telling the 
enquiring officer that he could do what he liked . 

Point (lv ) 
34 . In view of the findings which I have recorded above , Rabi Maliato knew of 
his dismissal on the 25th Decemoer , 1964. It is not possible , therefore to accept 
his case that he first knew of his dismissal when he received a copy of the dismissal 
letter (Ext. M 30 ) along with the letter dated the 27th July , 1968 (Ext. M 39 ). I 
hold accordingly . 

Point (0 ) 
35. On the basis of the discussions and findings recorded above , I hold that the 
dismissal of Rabi Mahato is justified . The second question put in the schedule does 
not, therefore arise . 

38 . This is my award . It may be submitted to the Central Governnient under 
section 15 of the Industrial Dipputes Act . 

(Sd.) KAMLA SAHAT , 

Presiding Officer 
[No. 2 / 27 /88 -LR .II . 


3868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1908 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


[PART 1 


- - - - 


- - 


.. - 


LV - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 12th August 1968 
S . O . 2869 , - Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the 
New Ghusick Colljery of Messrs West Ghusick Coal Company Limited , Post Oflce Kalipahari, 
District Burdwan and their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), 
Bengal Hotel, Post Office Asansol, Burdwan . 

And whercas the sail employers and the workmen have by a written agreement, in pur 
suance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section iOA of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , afteed to refer the said dispute to the arbitration of the person specified therein , and a 
copy of the said arbitration agreement has been forwarded to the Central Government ; 

Now , thereforc, in pursuence of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the Central Government herehy publishes the said 
arbitration agrecnient, which was received by it on the 1st August, 1968 . 

Agreement 
Under Section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 

BETWEEN 


Name of the parties : 
Representing employers 


Shri M . P . Roy , 
Group Personnel Oficer , 
M /s , West Ghusick Coal Co . Lili , 
P . O . Kalipahari, 
Distt . Burdwan . 
Shri S . K . Rudra , 
General Secretary , 
Colllery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), 
Bengal Hotel, P . O . Asansol, 
Distt. Burdwan . 


Representing workmen 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute to the arhi. 
tration of Shri K . Sharan , Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ), Asansol, 


(1) Specific matters, in dispute . 

" Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for thc Coal Mining In . 
dustry as accepted by the Government of India in their resolution dated 21 - 7 - 1967 and also the 
nature of dutiey performed by the workmen concerned , whether themanagement of New Ghusick 
Colliery ( P . O . Kalipahari, Distt. Burdwan ) of M /s . Weyt Ghusick Coal Co . Ltd , has correctly and 
properly designated the workmen named below and has correctly and properly placed them in the 
grade/category and fixed their basic pay /wages in the scale of basic pay /wages as shown again t. 
their respective names : 


Si. 


Name 


No. 


Existing 
designation 


Existing 
Grade ) 
Category 


Existing scale of basic 

pay /wages 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Hantvesoa 


I . Shri Rama Shankar Tiwary 

Mabcgh Yadav 
Shyamnapada Dawn 
Kashi Nath Sonar 
Jagdish Prasad 
Jagdish Dhari 
Makhlu Chamar 

Abodh Narayan Jha 
» Malakant Jha 


Lamp Isguer Gr. III 
Fitter Helper Cat . II 
Survey Boy Cat. I 
Timber Mazdoor Cat, II 
Timber Mazdoor Cat. II 

Timber Mazdoor Cat. Il 
Gate Mazdoor Cat. I 
General Mazdoor Cat. I 
Pit Head Bath 
Guard 

Gr. H 
Bailing Mazdoor Cat, I 
Timbor Mazdoor Cat , I 
Timber Mazdoor Cat , II 


Rs. 180 - 5 — 230 - 7 - 265 
Rs. 5 : 35 - 0 12 - Rs. 6 . 55 
Rs. 5 : 00 - 010 Rs. 6 . 00 
R9. 5 * 35 – 0 IZ - Rs. 6 . 55 
Rs. 335 012 - Rs. 6 . 35 
Rs. 5 . 35 0 . 12 -- Rs. 6 . 55 
Rs. 5 . 00 - 0 - 10 - Rs. 6 . 00 
Rs. 5 . 00 — 0 10 - Rs. 6 . 00 


» Debu Mitra 

Sukhdev Ahir 
Ranjendra Choubey 


Rs. 140 -- 3-- - 170 – 4 – 178 
Rs. 5 . 000. 10Rs. 6 . 00 
Rs. 5 . 00 — 0 . 10. Rg, 6 00 
Rs. 5 . 35 - 0 . 12 - R9. 6 . 5 $ 


12 . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Suc. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 24 , 1968 / BHADRA 2 , 1890 


3869 


2 . If not, to what relief are the workmen concerned entitled and from which (late ? " 
(ii) Details of the parties to tho digputo Includ - Employers in relation to New Ghusick 

ing the name and address of the cytablishment Colliery , ( P . O . Kalipahari, Distt . Burdwan 
or undertaking 

of M /s . West Ghusick Coal Co . Ltd . and 

Their workmicn . 
( iii ) Naitic of the Union , if any , representing the Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS) , Bengal 
Workien ifi question . 

Hotel, P . O . Asansol, Distr. Burdwan . 
( iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the 470 

undertaking affccted . 
(U ) Estimated number of workmen affected [2 (twelve). 

or likely to be affecicd by the dispute . 

We further agree that the decisions of the arbitrator shall be binding on us. 

The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of six months or within such further 
time 29 is entered by mutual agreement between us in writing. In case the award is not made 
within the period aforementioned , the reference to arbitration shall stund automatically cancelled 
and we shall be free to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 


Signature of the parties : 
Representing omployers : 
Sd /- M . P . Roy , 

29- 7 - 1968. 
Representing workmen 
Sd /- S . K . RUDRA, 

19 - 7 - 1968 . 


Witness : 
( 1 ) Sd /- M . N . SINGH , 

29 - 7 - 1968 . 
(2 ) Sd - N . K , GHOSB , 

29 - 7 - 1968 , 


(No. 6 /51/68 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 13th August 1968 
S . O . 2870 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bhaladih 
Sand Line of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited , P . O . Dishergarh , District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule : 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for the 
Coal Mining Industry , as accepted by the Central Government under its 
Resolution No . WB. 16 ( 5 ) / 68 , dated the 21st July , 1967, whether the demand at 
Shri Budhadeb Chattaraj, Canteen Incharge of Bhaladih Sand Line of M / 
Equitable Coal Company Limited , for his placement in the clerical Grade II and 
Axation of his pay in the scale of Rs. 205 - 7 - 275 - 10 - 825 is justified ? If so , to 
wha : relief is the workman entitled and from whlch date ? 

[No. 6 / 50 /88 -LR - II ] 
S . O . 2871.- Whereas by the order o the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Labour, Einployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) , No. 2 / 149 /68 -LRII- I, dated the 13th August 1968, an industrien 
dispute between the employers in relation to the management of East Baguria 
Colliery of Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office . 


3870 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : AUG . 24 , 1968 /BHA . 2, 1890 [PART II -- Sec . 3 (ii), 

:: - : .. ... .. - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - : - 7 .. ****** ** . . . - - - . . . - - - -- --- - -- - 
Kusuada, District Dhanbad and their workmen has been referred to the Indus 
bral Tribunal No. 3 , Dhanbad, for adjudication and it is necessary to prohibit 
the continuance of the strike in existence in the East Basuria Colliery in con 
mection with the said dispute ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sction ( 3 ) 
of section 10 of the Industrial Dispatos Act, 19-27 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence, il con 
nection with the said dispute in the saldi colljoy. 

[No. 2 / 149/ 68 -LRII- II.] 


8 . 0 . 2872 . - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the East Basuria Colliery 
of Messrs East Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office Kusunda , 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 107 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal No . 3, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of East Basuria Colliery of Messrs East 

Basuria Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office Kusunda , 
District Dhanbad way justified in retrenching Sarvashri Ramashis 
Singh and Tapeswar Pandey , Senior Over -men , with effect from the 
( 5th July . 1968 ? If not, to what relief are these workmen entitled ? 

[No. 2 / 149/68 - LRII -1.] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 24th August 1968 
8 . 0 . 2873 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs 
Act, 1982 ( 52 of 1962 ) , the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declare 
Durgapur in the State of West Bengal to be a warehousing station 

[No. 120 /68 -Customs/ F . No . 3 / 35 /68. Cur. VII.] 

M . S . SUBRAMANYAN , Under Secy . 


- 


. 


- 


- 


. . 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


. 


- - I - 


- 


- 


. 


- 


- . 


- 


. . . 


- 


. - . 


- . - 


- 


- - - - 


ALI 


PRINTIID BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDLA PRESS . 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY TITE . MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1968 


