REGISTERED No. D. 222 , 


Uhe <$a*ette 



of Ittbm 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


v 'No. 7] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazette* of India Extraordinary were publfthed upto the 5>h 
February 1953 : — 


lnue 

No, 


36 


37 


No. and date 

luued by 

Subject 

S. R. O. 282, dated the 
22nd January 1955 - 

Ministry of Law. 

The Central Government ap- 
points certain dates on which 
the Wakf Act, 1054 shall 
come into force in certain 
Slates. 

S. R. O. 283, dated the 31st 
January 1955 - 

Election Commission, 
India. 

Final list of candidates for 
election to the House 0 f the 
People from the Sri villi- 
puthur Constituency. 

S-R- 0 , 284, dated the 31st 
January 1955. 

Ditto 

Final list of candidates for 
election to the House of th 
People from the Kanpur 
District (Central) Consti- 
tuency. 

S. R. O. 285, dated the ist 

1 February 1955- 

' 1 

1 

Delimitation Com- 
mission, India. 

Corrections in the Delimitation 
Commission’s Final Order 
No. 19, dated the 4th Qcto- 
1 ber 1954. 

1 

! S. R. O. 286, dated the 2nd 
February 1955 - 

1 

Ministry of Finance 

1 (Revenue Division). 

( 

Exemption from Customs Duty 
leviable on certain articles 
when imported into India 
or into the State of Pondi- 
cherry. 


40 I S. R. O, 287, dated the 3rd Delimitation Com- , Final Order No. 22. 
February 1955, mission, Tndia. 


( 297 ) 


|Part II — Sec. & 


2.98 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


I»*ue 

No. 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Sublet 


41 i S. R. O. 329 , dattd the 4 th 
| February 1955. 

f 

l 


Election Commission* Final list of candidates for 
India. I election to the House of the- 

j Pcopl. from Gorakhpur 

| District (North) Consti- 

tuency, 


S. R. O. 330 , dated the 4 th I Ditto 
February 1955- | 


Final list of candidates for 
election to the House of the 
People from Lucknow District 
(Central) Constituency. 


42 


S. R. O. 331 , dated the 3 rd 
February 1955* 


k 


Ministry of Infor- 
mation and Broad- 
casting. 


Certificate by the Central 
Government regarding the 
nature of certain films. 


43 


S. R. O. 332 , dated the 
5 th February 1955. 


Ministry of Com- 
merce and Industry. 


4A 


S. R. O, 333 , dated 
5 th February 1955* 


45 


S. R. O. 334 , dated 
5 th February 1955. 


1 

t 


the 


the 


Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division) 


Ditto 


Amendment made m the 
Second Schedule to the 
Indian Tarifl Act, 1934 , 


Exemption lrom duty of 
customs leviable on certain 
goods when exported fronL 
India or the State of Pondi- 
cherry. 


Exemption from excise duty 
leviable on unmanufactured 
tobacco. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to the 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be submitted so as to reach the 
Manager within ten days of the date of issue of this Gazette. 


PART II— Section 3 

Statutory Buies and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Govemm< 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authorit. 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


ELECTION COMMISSION, INDIA 

New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 

S.R.O. 339. — In pursuance of sub-rule (5) of rule 114 of the Representation of 
the People (Conduct of Elections and Election Petitions) Rules, 1951, the namev- 
of the person shown in column I of the Schedule below who having been nomina- 
ted as a candidate for bye-election to the House of the People from the consti- 
tuency specified in column 2 thereof, and having appointed himself to be his. 
election agent at the said election, has, in accordance with the decision given 
bv the Election Commission under sub-rule (4) of the said rule, failed to lodge 
the return of election expenses within the time and in the manner required and 



Patt II — Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


299 


has thereby incurred the disqualifications under clause (c) of section 7 and 
section 143 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (XL1II of 1951), 1 a 
hereby published:— 

Schedule 


Name of the Candidate 


Name of Lonstituency 


i 


2 


Shri Fagu Munnu. Village VBaishnabpore, Midnapor Jhargram 

P* O. SiJdah, Union — Bclpahari *(17% 

F. S, Binpur, District Alidnapore. 


[No. WB-P/55-BYE(l).] 
By Order, 

P. N. SHINGHAL, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

Neu' Delhi , the 2nd February 1955 

S.R.O, 340. — The following Proclamation issued by the Governor of the Colony 
and Protectorate of Kenya is published below for general information: — 

“PROCLAMATION NO. 4 
(S.A.J, & L. 34/3: 

THE MAINTENANCE ORDERS ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE 

(CAP. 16) 

Phoci.amation 

E. BARING — By His Excellency the Honourable Sir Evelyn Baring , Kmght 
Commander of the Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and 
Saint George , Knight Commander of the Royal Victor tan Order , 
Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony and Protectorate of 
Kenya . 

In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Maintenance Orders 
Enforcement Ordinance and of all other powers thereunto enabling, 1 hereby 
proclaim that the said Ordinance shall extend to the Republic of India excepting 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 

Proclamation No. 87. dated the 1st day of October, 1938 (which appears at 
jfcage 536 of Volume V of the Laws of Kenya) is revoked. 

Given under my hand and the Public Seal of the Colony at Nairobi this 31st 
day of December, 1953. 


GOD SAVE THE QUEEN 1 '. 


[No. F.28(1)/54TL.] 
R. S. GAE, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 

S.R.O. 34 J. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso in column 3, 
against entry 3(a) of the table annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 
>051, the Central Government hereby directs that the exemption enjoyed by 

Desui Shri Ramprasad Karsanji 

a Ruler of Vasavad, shall be valid only in respect of one revolver or pistol, 
one rifle, two breech loading guns and one muzzle loading gun. 

[No. 20-Police. IV.] 



3 oo 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part II — Sec 3 


S.R.O. 342. — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3(b) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I of the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

Tikayat Shri Pradip Chandra Singh Deo, ■ 

a member of the family of the Ruler of Khars awan for the purpose of that entry. 

[No. 21-Police.IVJ 

S.R.O. 343* — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 27 of the Indian 
Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government is pleased to exempt the 
three parties of touring Judges of the Nepal Government proceeding to different 
districts in Nepal terai through Indian territory from all the prohibitions and 
directions contained in the said Act in respect of — 

(a) First party 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 24227 with 25 , twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 

one *38 bore pistol No* 11291 with 25 (twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 
(for Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal). 

(b) Second party ** f 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 37761 with 25 (twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 

one -38 bore pistol No. 813836, with 25 (twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 
(for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar). 

(c) Third party 

One Mark 3 rifle No. 24227 with 25 (twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 

one '38 bore pistol No. 90312 with 25 (twentyflve) rounds of ammunition; 
(for Uttar Pradesh and Bihar), 


[No. 22-P.IVJ 
C. P. S. MENON, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 1th February 1955 

3.RO. 344. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to artirle 309 
of the Constitution read with Articles 313 and 372 thereof and Paragraph 19 of 
the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, the President hereby directs that the follow- 
ing further amendment shall be made in the Rules published with the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the late Home Department No. F.9-19/30-Esta. 
dated the 27th February, 1932, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said Rules, under the heading '‘Department ofgCom- 
mumeations” and the sub-heading “Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department” 
and the category “(A) Services” for the entries relating to (1) Ministerial St* 
in Clerical Grade (including Divisional Store Depots) and Stenographers and 
(ii) All Class IV Staff under item 4(b) office of the Controller of Telegraph 
Stores (including Stores Depots) the following shall be substituted namely: — 


4 (b) Office of the Controller of Telegraph Stores {including stores Depots) 


Ministerial Staff in 
clerical grades (in- 
cluding Divisional 
Stores Depots) and 
Stenographers. 


Controller of 
Telegraph Stores. 


(a) Officer of 

Telegraph En- 
gineering and 
Wireless Ser- 
vice, Class TI . 

(b) Controller of 
Telegraph 
Stores. 


(i) Controller of Telegraphs. 
& 

(v>. 


AU Chief Controller of 
Telegraph Stores. 


All Class TV Staff, 


Officer of Tele- 
graph Engineer- 
ing and Wireless 
Service Class II 
or Administra- 
tive Officer. 


Officer of Tele- 
graph Engineer- 
ing and WireleHH 
Service Class IT 
or Administra- 
tive Officer- 


All Controller ol Telegraph 
Stores, 


Controller of Controller of All Chie Controller 
Telegraph Stores Telegraph Stores Telegraph Stores. 

^Jabalpur) (Jabalpur;. 


[No. 7/25/54-Eats,] 



30i 


Part II— Sec J 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


New Delhi , the 8th February 1955 

S.R.O. 345. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, read with articles 313 and 372 thereof and paragraph 19 of 
the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950, the President hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made in the rules published with the 
^notification of the Government of India in the late Home Department No. F.9/19/ 
30-Ests., dated the 27th February, 1932, namely:— 

In the Schedule to the said rules, under the heading ^Department of Labour” 
and sub-headings ‘Office of the Chief Adviser Factories' ana 'Inspectorate, Dock 
Safety, Bombay/Calcutta/Madras’ under Class IV posts, in the last column for 
the words “Secretary, Ministry of Labour”, the words “Deputy Secretary, Minis- 
try of Labour” shall be substituted. 

i [No, 7/3/53-Ests.] 

S. P, MAHNA, Under Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 4 th February 1955 

S.R.O* 346. — In pursuance of Clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution 
of ~ idia the President is hereby pleased to recognise Thakor Shri Dilipsinhji 
A) inhji as the Ruler of Punadra with effect from the 10th November 1954 
in succession to the late Thakor Shri Ajitsinhji Shivsinhji. 

¥ 

[No. F.15/01/54-PB.] 
V. VISWANATHAN, Joint Secy, 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi , the 1st February 1955 

S.R.O. 347.— In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) section 3 
of the Diplomatic and Consular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948 (XLI of 
1948), the Central Government hereby authorises Shri S. C. Chatter ji, Assistant 
Registrar, Embassy of India, Rome, to perform the duties of a Consular Agent 
with immediate effect and until further orders. 


[No. 95-Cons/55.} 
I, S. CHOPRA, Joint Secy, 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION) 

Estate Duty 

New Delhi , the 4 th February 1955 

S.R.O. 348. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 4 
of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953), the Central Government hereby 

directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the notification 
‘ the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division), 
S.R.O. 2083, dated the 16th August, 1954, namely: — 

In the Appendix to the said notification, under the head “II. 

ACCOUNTANTS”, Serial numbers 148 and 161 and the entries 
relating thereto shall be omitted 

[No. 2.] 
R. K. DAS, Dy. Secy. 


Customs 

New Delhi . the 12th February 1955 

S.R.O. 349. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878), the Central Government hereby 
directs that a drawback shall be allowed in accordance with, and subject to, 



302 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 'Part II— Sec. 3 


the provisions of the said section and any rules made thereunder, in respect 
of duty-paid foreign cork used in the manufacture of crown corks when such 
crown corks are manufactured in, and exported from, India or shipped as stores 
on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port. 

[No* 16.1 


[F. No. 32/14/54-Cus.I.J 


S.R.O. 350. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 
43B of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 tVIII of 1878), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rules, the same having been previously published as required 
by sub-section (3) of the said section, namely: — . 

RULES 

L Short title. — These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Crown Cork) Rules, 1954, 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a) ‘the Act’ means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878); ^ 

(b) ‘cork’ means natural or composition cork imported into this country 

in the form of rod or disc, on payment of customs duty; 

(c) ‘crown cork* means a closure of the type used in an aerated water 

bottle, and fitted with a cork disc; 

(d) ‘cork disc’ means a disc cut out of impoited cork to size and sKEpe 

suitable for being fitted into crown corks; 

(e) ‘quarter’ means a period of three months beginning with the first day 

of January, the first day of April, the first day oi July, and the first 

day of October; 

(f) ‘registered manufacturer’ means a manufacturer of crown corks ? 

registered under rule 5; and 

( g ) ‘section’ means a section of the Act. 

3. Foods In respect of which drawback may be allowed.— Subject to the pro- 
visions of the Act and these rules, a drawback shall be allowed in the case of 
crown corks (hereinafter referred to as the goods) manufactured in, and exported 
from, India or shipped as stores for use on board a ship proceeding to a foreign 
port, in respect of any duty-paid cork actually used in the manufacture of such 
goods. 

4. Period for which drawback admissible. — A drawback under tnese rules 
shall be admissible for the period during which a notification under sub-section 

(1) of section 43B in respect of the goods is in force. 


5. Registration of manufacturers. — (1) A drawback permissible under these 
rules shall apply only in respect of the goods manufactured by a person registered 
under, and for the purposes of, these rules by a Chief Customs Officer, authorised 
in this behalf by the Chief Customs Authority (hereinafter referred to as the 
authorised Chief Customs Officer) . 

(2) An application for registration shall be made by a manufacturer of th# ' 
goods to the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 

(3) Such application shall describe the varieties, brands, if any, and other 
specifications of the goods in respect of which registration is desired and shall* 

In respect of every such variety or brand, furnish — 

(a) the description and quantity (vlz> t the average thickness and diameter 

and the average weight per 100 gross discs) of different varieties of 
duty-paid cork used in the manufacture of one hundred gross crown 
corks; 

(b) the average amount of customs duty based on the average value of 

importations of such varieties of duty-paid cork during the precede 
ing six months and the average duty paid thereon, on the quantities 
referred to in the foregoing aub-clauso. 

(4) The authorised Chief Customs Officer may, if he is satisfied that the 

provisions of these rules have been complied with, register the applicant as a 
registered manufacturer. V 

(5) Subsequent to such registration, the registered manufacturer shall not 
alter the composition of any brand or variety of the goods or the shape and 
size of the imported corks used in their manufacture, without the prior per- 
mission of the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 



303 


Part II— fefiC. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1355 


(6) Any I'egistercd manufacturer contravening the provision of the last pre- 
ceding sub-rule shall render himself liable to have ms registration cancelled, 
besides any other penalties to which he may be subject under the Act and these 
rules. 


6. Rate of drawback, — (1) Where the Customs Collector is satisfied that a 
claim for a drawback is established under these i ules, such drawback shall bo 
paid at the rate indicated heremunder, 

(2) The drawback of duty admissible under these rules on the shipment of 
the goods in the prescribed manner shall be seven-eight of the average amount 
of Customs duty paid on cork used in the manufacture of the goods. 

(3) Such drawback shall be determined at the beginning of every quarter 

by the Chief Customs Authority or the authorised Chief Customs Officer on the 
basis of statements furnished by the registered manufacturer and verified by 
a Customs Officer, of the value of importations and duty paid thereon during 
the preceding 0 months or any longer period as the Customs Collector may 
deem convenient, of cork used in the manufacture of the goods. The drawback 
shall be determined as so much per one hundred gross of each variety or brand 
of crown corks, \ 

(4) The rate of drawback so determined shall be in force for the quarter 
for which it has been determined under sub-rule (2) and shall apply to all ship- 
ments made during that quarter from any port in India, 


7. Manager of allowing drawback, — Drawback shall be allowed on the ship- 
mt of the goods from any port m India subject to, the following conditions, 
namely, — * 

(a) the shipper of the goods shall make a declaration on the relative ship- 
ping bill, — 

(i) that a claim for the drawback under section 43B is being made, and 

(ii) that, to the best of his knowledge and belief, the composition of the 

f loods and the size and shape of the cork discs useef in the maim- 
acture of the goods have not been altered subsequent to registra- 
tion save in accordance with the provisions of rule S sub-clause (5); 

(b) the shipper shall, in the shipping bill, furnish, in addition to inform- 
ation required under section 29, such additional information as 
may, in the opinion of the Customs Collector, be necessary tor the 
purpose of verifying the claim for a drawback, and, in particular, 
the Customs Collector may require such additional information in 
respect of the following matters, namely: — 

(i) the description of the goods including particulars of any brand or 
trade mark attached to the goods; 

(ii) the name of the registered manufacturer, his registration number 
and the Chief Customs Authority oy the authorised Chief Customs 
Officer by whom he has been registered; 

Uii) the variety of cork discs used, such as natural or composition, fine 
or superfine and 

(iv) the particulars of the shape and size of the cork discs, 
g. Powers of Customs Collector.— For the purpose of enforcing these rules, 
the authorised Chief Customs Officer or the Customs Collector may— 

(a) require a registered manufacturer to produce any books of accounts 
or other documents of whatever nature relating to the imported 
cork used in the manufacture of the goods and the value and duty 
paid on such imported cork; and i 

(b) require the production of such certificates, documents and other 
evidence, in respect of each claim of drawback as may be necessary. 


9. Access to manufactory. — A registered manufacturer of the goods in respect 
of which a drawback is claimed under these rules shall be bound to give access 
to every part of his manufactory to any officer of the Central Government specially 
authorised in this behalf bv the authorised Chief Customs Officer, to enable 
the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify 
check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for 


by actual check 
drawback. 


[No, 17.] 


[F. No. 32/14/54-Cus,I.] 
JASJIT SINGH, Dy. Secy. 



IX—, „ * 


. * . 12, . L jtj 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

Customs 

New Delhi , the 7 th February 1955 

S.R.O. 351.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 
3 of the Land Customs Act, 1924 (XlX of 1924), read with the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Finance Department (Central Revenues) No. 5944, 
dated the 13th December, 1924, the Central Board of Revenue hereby appoints 
for the areas adjoining the foreign frontier separating West Pakistan from India, 
the officers of the Government of Punjab specified in the Schedule hereto an- 
nexed, to be Land Customs Officers within the jurisdiction of the Collector of 
Land Customs, Delhi. 

The Schedule 

(1) All Police Officers of the Punjab Armed Police of and above the rank 

of Inspector; 

(2) All Police Officers of the Punjab Armed Police of and above the rank 

of Head Constable posted to the border districts of Gurdaspur, 

Amritsar and Ferozepore; and 

(3) All Police Officers of and above the rank of Head Constable posted in 

the District Police Force of the border districts of Gurdaspur* 

Amritsar and Ferozepore. 

I [No. 23.1 

1 W. SALDANHA, Secy. 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi , the 12 th February 1955 

S.R.O. 35£.“~In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Dhoties 
(Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953 (39 of 1953), the Central Government here- 
by makes the following rules, namely:— 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Dhoties Fixation of Collective 
Quota Rules, 1955. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 

(a) ‘the Act' means the Dhoties (Additional Excise Duty) Act, 1953, (3£ 

of 1953); ) 

(b) ‘collective quota’ means the total of the undivided quota fixed under 

section 3, for all mills included in a particular group; 

(c) ‘section’ means a Section of the Act; and 

(d) ‘Textile Commissioner’ has the same meaning as in the Cotton Textiles; 

(Control) Order, 1948. 

3. Mills in respect of which a collective quota may be fixed.*— Subject to the 

provisions of the Act, the Textile Commissioner may fix a collective quota in 
respect of mills, — 1 

(i) which are under a common ownership or management; or 

(ii) which may be placed by the Textile Commissioner, by order in writ- 

ing, within a single group, j 

4. Applications for collective quotas. — Mills desirous of having a collective 

quota fixed for them shall apply to the Director (Production & Development)* 
office of the Textile Commissioner, Bombay, in the Form annexed to these rules. 
Such applications shall be^received in the office of the Textile Commissioner not 
Jess than 30 days before the commencement of the quarter for which the collec- 
tive quota has been applied for. < 

5. Procedure for fixation of collective quota. — When the Textile Commissioner 
has fixed a collective quota for a group of mills, he shall by order in writing* 
intimate to the mills concerned and to tne central excise officers in charge of the 
said mills, the collective quota fixed for the group, the period for which the 
collective quota shall be valid, the mill or mills from which dhoties shall be 
allowed to be cleared under the collective quota, and the respective share of the 
collective quota allocated to each such mill. 

6. Alteration in collective quota once fixed. — No alteration shall be permitted 
in the collective quota fixed for a group of mills or in its allocation as between 
the units in a group during the currency of the quarter to which the collective 
quota pertains. 



pAitT I^-SKC 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 305 


7 Mills to furnish such information etc. as may be required —Mills applying 
for a collective quota shall produce or cause to be produced such documents or 
furnish such mfoimation as the Textile Commissioner may from time to time 
require in support of applications. 

8 Power to Issue supplementary instructions, — The Textile Commissioner 
may, from time to time, issue written instructions providing for any matters 
incidental or ancillary to or ansing out of these rules 


Form of Application 


(See rule 4) 

Important — This Form should be completed and sent to the office of the 
Textile Commissioner, CST Section, Ballard Estate, Bombay No 1, Mills are 
advised in their interests to post the return under a certificate of posting or by 
registered post with an asknowledgement due 

1. Names of thd mills which desire to form a group 
for the purpose of collective quota, 

2 Address of each mill in the group 

3. Tex Mark No. of each mill in the gioup. 

4. State/States in which the mills are situated, 

5. Name and address of the Managing Agents, 

6 Permissible quota for each mill in accordance with 

the provisions of the Dhoties (Additional Excise 
Duty) Act, 1953, 

7 Reasons why a collective quota for the group of 

mills is desired 

8, The name or names of the mills from which 
clearance of dhoties is desired and the propor- 
tion in which the collective quota is to 
allocated. 

9 The period for which collective quota is required 

I hereby declare that the paiticulars given above, in so far as I can ascertain, 
are accurate and complete. 

Date 

Place 

Signatuie of the 
Managing Agents, 


Note — Collective quota will be allowed only for a full quarter or quarters 
and not for any portions thereof. 

! [No 9(21 )-CT( A)/54 1 ] 


A K CHAKRAVERTY, Under Secy 


ORDERS 

New Delhi , the 1st February 1955 

S.R.O. 353, — IDR A/6/1.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV of 1951), the Central 
Government hereby establishes for the group of scheduled industries engaged In 
the manufacture and production of telephones, telegraph apparatus and wireless 
communication apparatus, electric lamps, electric fans, batteries dry cells and 
storage, radio receivers and house service meters and panel instruments, a Deve- 
lopment Council which shall consist of the following members, namely: — 


r Shri T R Gupia Messrs Jay Engineering Works, 183-A, Prince*] 
Anwai Shah Road, CalcuLta-31. 

2. Shri R D, Char, Messrs Standard Batteries Ltd , 43, Foibcs Street, ] 

Fori, Bombay 

3. Prof, S. K. Roy, Messrs Bengal Electric Lamps Works, 7, Old Court 

House Street (2nd Floor), Calcutta 

4 . Mr. J. E. Reid, Messrs General Electric Co ol India (Mfg j Ltd , 

55, Tarataln Road, Garden Reach, Calcuttu-24 ] 

5 Shri R, K PJiatak, C/o All India Radio Merchants’ Association, Fateh , 
Manzil, Opera House, Bombay-4. | 

6. Shri Y, A Pazalbhoy, General Radio und Apphancts Lid , 16, New 
Queens’ Road, Bombay-4 J 


being persons who 
m the opinion of 
the Cenual 

Government are 
capable of icpre^ 
y sentmg the interest 
oi owners of 
industrial under- 
takings m the 
group ol the said 
scheduled in- 

dustries. 



[Part II— Sec* 3 


306 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 

7. Scientific Adviser, Ministry of Defence, New Delhi . . . 1 being persons who in 

the opinion of the 
Central Govern- 
; merit have special 
knowledge of 

matters relating to 
the technical or 
other aspects of 
the group of the 

8. Shri B. V. Baliga, Officer on Special Duty, Bharat Electronic, J said schdedulcd 

Kashmir Hou9c, New Delhi, J industries. 

9, Shri Indravadun M. Oza, 33, Lajpatrai Road, Vile-Pa.de* Bombay-24") being persons who in 

the opinion of the 
Central Govern- 
ment are capable of 
representing the 
► interest of persons 
empioyed in the 
industrial under- 

10, Shri R. J. Mehta, Secretary-Treasurer, Engineering Mazdur Sabha takings in the 

Kamgar Sadan, Nawab Tank Road, Mazagaon, Bambay-io.J group of the said 

scheduled in- 

dustries, 

11, Shri M. Hayath, Member, Hydro-Electric, Central Water and Power being persons who in 

Commission, Bikaner House, New Delhi. the opinion of the 

Central Govern- 
ment arc capable of 
representing the 

12, Lt. Col. B, M. Chakravarty, Superintendent, Technical Division Es- y interests of con- 

tablishfnent, Dehra Dun. f sutners of goods 

(With Shri J, C. Maitra, Assistant Superintendent of Development, TDE [ manufactured and 
(I. Sc E.), Dehra Dun, as alternate member. | produced by the 

T3. Shri S. T. Thadani, Director of Supplies, Shahjahan Road, New Delhi, J group of the said 

f scheduled in- 

J dustries, 

2. Shri T. R. Gupta shall be the Chairman of the said Development Council. 

3. The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said 
Development Council, namely: — 

(1) Recommending targets of production, co-ordinating production pro- 

grammes and reviewing progress from time to time. 

(2) Suggesting norms of efficiency with a view to eliminating waste, 

obtaining maximum production, improving quality and reducing 
costa. 

(3) Recommending measures for securing the fuller utilisation of the 

installed capacity and for improving the working of the group of the 
said scheduled industry, particularly of the less efficient units. 

(4) Promoting arrangements for better marketing and helping in the 

devising of a system of distribution and sale of the produce of the 
group of the said scheduled industries which would be satisfactory 
to the consumer. 

(5) Promoting standardisation of products. 

(0) Promoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics. 

(7) Promoting the adoption of measures for increasing the productivity 
of labour, including measures for securing safer and better working 
conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities ana 
incentives for workers. 


[No. 5(14) IA(G)/54-] 
T. B. SAKSENA, Dy. Secy. 



Part II— Skc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 307 


S.K.O. 354/IDRA/6/2. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (LXV 9! 1951), the Central 
Government hereby establishes for the scheduled industries engaged in the 
manufacture and production of electric motors and of machinery and equipment 
for the generation, transmission and distribution of electric energy (excluding 
house service meters and panel instruments), a Development Council which shall 
consist of the following members, namely: — 


X, Shxi N. W. Gurjar, Messrs Khloskat Electric Co., Ltd., 460/2, 18th 
Cross Malles wuram, Bangalore-3- 

2 , Shxi T. S. Sitapati, Messrs National Insulated Cable Co. of India Ltd., 
4* Dalhousie Square East, Calcutta. 

3, Mr, C. M. Huroftcy, Director, Messrs Associated Electrical Industriesa 

Mfg. Co., Ltd,, Calcutta, 

4, Mr. A. Rutiahauser, Head of Electrical Deptt. , Voltas Ltd., 19, Graham 
Road, Ballard Estate, P.O. Bag 100081 Bombay-i. 

5* Mr. T, G. May, Managing Director, General Electric Co. of India Ltd,, 
“Magnate House 11 , Chittaranjan Avenue, Calcutta, 


being poisons who 
1 in the opinion of 
the Central 

Government are 
capable of re- 
k presenting the 
interest of owners 
of industrial under- 
takings in the 
[ said scheduled 
industries. 


6. Shri N, N. lengar, Technical Director, Tata Hydro-Electric, Bombay") 


7, Prof. M. S. Thacker* D ro: or, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore 


being persons who 
in the opinion of 
the Central 

Government have 
special knowledge 
of matters re- 
lating to the 
technical or other 
aspects of the said 
scheduled in- 
dustries. 


8. Shri K, M. Chinnappa, Deputy Chief Electrical Engineer, Damodar being persons who 

Valley Corporation, Anderson House, Alipore, Calcutta-27, in the opinion of 

the Central 

Government have 
special knowledge 
of matters 

relating to the 
technical or other 
aspects of the 
said scheduled 
industries. 

9. Shri M. S, BulsaWar, Messrs Coorla $pg. and Wvg. Mills Ca, Ltd., being a person who 

Kurla, Bombay. in the opinion of 

the Central 

Government it 
capable of repre- 
senting the 

interests of per- 
sons employed in 
industrial under- 
takings in the 
said scheduled 
industries. 


10. Shri M. Hayath, Member, Hydro-Electric, Central Water and Power - 
Commission, Bikaner House, New Delhi, 
n. Shri P. C. Mookerjee, Member (Engineering), Railway Board, New 
Delhi. 

12. Shri D. V. Kobli, S.O.L, E-in-Cds Branch, Kashmere House, New 
Delhi. 


13. Shri S. T. Thadani, Director of Supplies, Directorate General of- 
Supphes and Disposals, New Delhi. 


being persons who 
in the opinion of 
the Central 

Government are 
capable of re- 
presenting the 
interests of con- 
sumers of goods 
manufactured and 
produced by the 


said Scheduled 
industries. 



308 the GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [Part II— Sec. 3 


2. One more person who in the opinion of the Central Government is capable 
of representing the interests of persons employed in industrial undertakings in 
the said scheduled industries shall tje appointed by the Central Government to 
be a member of the said Development Council. 

3. Shn N. N. Icngar shall be the Chairman of the said Development Council. 

4. The Central Government hereby assigns the following functions to the said 
Development Council, namely: — 

(1) Recommending targets of production, co-ordinating production pro- 

grammes and reviewing progress from time to time. 

(2) Suggesting norms of efficiency with a view to eliminating waste, 

obtaining maximum production, improving quality and reducing 
costs. 

(3) Recommending measures for securing the fuller utilisation of the 

installed capacity and for improving the working of the said 
scheduled industries, particularly of the less efficient units 

(4) Promoting arrangements for better marketing and helping in the 

devising of a system of distribution and sale of the produce of the 
said scheduled industries which would be satisfactory to the 
consumer. 

(5) Promoting standardisation of products. 

(0) Promoting or undertaking the collection and formulation of statistics. 

(7) Promoting the adoption of measures for increasing the productivity 
of labour, including measures for securing safer and better working 
conditions and the provision and improvement of amenities and 
incentives for workers. 

[No. 5(14)IA(G)/54.] 
B. B. SAKSENA, Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 

Bombay, the 1st February 1955 

S.R.O. 355. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10 of the Atomic 
Energy Act, 1948 (XXIX of 1948), the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following amendments shall be made in the Atomic Energy (Control of Pro- 
duction and Use) Order, 1954, namely: — 

In the said Order — 

(1) clause 4 shall be re-numbered as sub-clause (1) of clause 4 and after 

sub-clause (1) as So renumbered, the following sub-clause shall be 
inserted, namely : — 

”(2) A licence issued under sub-clause (1) shall be effective throughout 
the territories of India to which the Act extends”; 

(2) clause 5 shall be re-numbered as sub-clause (1) of clause 5 and after 

sub-clause (1) as so renumbered, the following sub-clause shall be 
inserted, namely: — 

“(2) a license issued under sub-section (1) shall be effective throughout 
the territories of India to which the Act extends”. 

[No. HMD/ 1(4)/ 53-1375.] 
N. K. DRAVID, Joint Secy. 

MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 
(Agriculture) 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

S.R.O. 356. — Under Section 4(VII) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (XIV 
of 1923) the Central Government are pleased to renominate Shn R. G. Saraiya 
as a representative of Cooperative Banking on the Indian Central Cotton Com- 
mittee, with effect from the 1st April, 1955. 


[No. F.1 “12/54-Com.IL] 
R. L, MEHTA, Dy. Secy. 




Part II— Sec 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1»55 309 


(Agriculture) 

New Delhi* the 2nd February 1955 

S.R*0, 357. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
7 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX of 1946") the Central Govern- 
ment is pleased to appoint Shri R. S. Krishnaswamy, I.C.S., Vice-President, 
Indian Council of Agricultural Research and ex-officio Additional Secretary to 
the Government of India, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, to be the President of 
the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee with effect from the 15th January, 1955, 
vice Shri K. R. Damle, I.C.S., who has proceeded on deputation abroad, 

[No, F.5-5/55-Com-I.] 


New Delhi , the 4th February 1955 

S.R.O. 358, — In pursuance of the provisions of Sub-Section (f) of Section 4 
of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1940 (IX of 1940), the State Government 
of Madhya Pradesh have re-nominated Shri S. N, Mushran, M.L.A., Narasimhpur, 
District Hoshangabad, as a member of the Indian Central Oilseeds Committee, 
with effect from the 1st April, 1955. 


[No. F.6-l/55-Com-I.] 


New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 

g.lt.O, 359. — The following draft of a further amendment to the Indian Oil- 
seeds Committee Rules, 1947, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian Oilseeds Committee Act, 1946 (IX 
of 1946), is published as required by sub-section (1) of the said section, for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken Into consideration on or after the 10th 
March, 1955. . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


Draft Amendment 

For sub-rule (2) of rule 20 of the said Rules, the following sub-rule shall be 
substituted, namely: — . 

"(2) A member of the Committee who is not in the service of the Govern- 
ment shall be entitled to draw in respect of any journey performed 
by him for the purpose of attending a meeting of the Committee or 
of a duly constituted Sub-committee thereof such travelling and 
halting allowances as would be admissible in respect ®f 
such journeys to Government servants of the first grade serving 
under the Central Government.” 

[No. F.5-74/54-Com-I.] 
F. C. GERA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi t the 4th February 1955 

S.R.O. 360. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and (2) 
of section 7 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (XXIII of 1940), the Central Government 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall he made in the 
notification of the Government of India, in the Ministry of Health No. 
F. 1-3/ 47-D(Il), dated the 13th September, 1948, constituting the Drugs Consulta- 
tive Committee, namely: — 

In the said notification, under the heading ‘Nominated by State Govern- 
ments’ for entry 10, the following entry shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“(10) Major K. N. Rao, M.D., D.G.O., F.C.C.P., F.J.C.S., Primary 

F.R C S. (Eng.), Director of Medical Services, Andhra State” 

[No. F. 4-2/55-D.] 
KRISHNA B1HARI, Under Secy. 



310 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [Part II— Sec S 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi , the tith February 1955 

S.R.O. 361, — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 17 of the Cinema- 
tograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) the Central Government hereby exempts 
cinematograph exhibition of films in the premises of educational institutions in all 
part ‘C" States from the operation of section 10 of the aforesaid Act subject to 
fhe following conditions:— 

1- Only films of a predominantly educational nature, certified as such by 
the Central Board of Film Censors or one of the former State Boards 
or films approved as scientific films, films intended for educational 
purposes, films dealing with news and current events, or docu- 
mentary films approved by the Film Advisory Board shall be so 
exhibited or permitted to be exhibited, 

2 No film which has been certified by the Central Board of Film Censors 
or a former State Board of Film Censors as suitable for public exhi- 
bition restricted to adults only shall be exhibited or permitted to 
be exhibited to a person who is not an adult, 

3, No film which has been declared as uncertified or whose exhibition has 
been suspended under the Cinematograph Act 1952 (XXXVII of 
1952) shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited, 

4 No admission fee, except to the extent required to cover expenses, shall 

be charged. 

5 No person other than students and staff of the Institution, Members of 

the Managing Committees of the Institutions and any guest specially 
invited by the authorities or the Institutions and those enumerated 
under condition (11) below shall be admitted to the show, 

6. Only 16 mm. non-inflammable or 35mm. non 'inflammable films and film 

strips shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited, 

7, No advertisement films shall be exhibited or permitted to be exhibited. 

8, The licensing authority shall be informed at least 48 hours in advance 

of the time and place of such exhibition. 

9, All Institutions which avail themselves of this exemption shall main- 

tain a register of the films exhibited and comply with any other 
directions that may be issued in this behalf bv the State Govern- 
ment. The register shall be open to inspection by duly authorised 
officers of the State Government. 

10. This exemption shall be valid for a period of one year with effect from 

the date of issue of this notification, unless revoked earlier. 

11. Employees of the State Government, members of the Central Board of 

Film Censors and its Advisory Panels and Regional and Assistant 
Regional Officers of the Board engaged in the discharge of their 
official duties shall be admitted to the place where the exhibitions 
are held and to the film shows 


TNo. 6/6/45 FC.] 
D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secv. 


(Central Board of Film Censors) 

ORDER 

Bombay, the 1 fit February 1955 

S R.O. 362. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the first proviso to sub- 
rule (2) of rule 22 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules, 1951, the Chairman, 
Central Board of Film Censors, hereby directs that the applications lor certifica- 
tion of “Bengal films” and “Madras films , \ excepting shots not exceeding 
2 000 feet in 35 mm, and 800 feet in 16 mm, other than newsreels and trailers, 
imported into India from abroad shall be made and delivered to the Regional 
Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, Bombay, with effect from the 15th 
February, 1955. 

[No. 03/SEC/ 54.] 

B. D. MIRCHANDANI, 
Chairman. 



Part II — Slc 3J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 3IT 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Win*) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi , the 4th February 1955 

SJft.O. 363,— The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Merchant Shipping {Load Line) Rules, 1934, which it is proposed to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 219 of the Indian Merchant Shipping 
Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), is published as required by the said section for the 
information of all persons Ukcly to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 2nd March 1955 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendments 


In the said Rules — 

(1) In clause (a) of sub-rule (2) of rule 3, after the words “and that”, the 
words “having regard to the period for which the load line certificate is to be 
issued or renewed” shall be inserted; 

(2) in rule 15. the last sentence “Where end coamings are protected, the 
Assigning Authority may modify these requirements” shall be omitted; 

(3j in rule 16— 

(i) after the first sentence, the following sentence shall be inserted, namely: — * 

“The ends of the wood covers shall be protected by galvanised steel bands 
efficiently secured.”; 

(ii) the following Note shall be added at the end, namely: — 

“Note —The provision made in the second sentence shall not apply to wood 
covers in use prior to the 4th February, 1955, but when in the opinion 
of the Assigning Authority the renewal of any such cover becomes 
necessary, the provision shall he given effect to.”; 

( 4 ) to rule 19, the following sentence shall be, added, namely: — 

“Cleats shall be of a pattern approved by the Assigning Authority and 
shall be set to fit the taper of the wedges; but this provision shall not 
apply to any ship the keel of which was laid before the 4th February, 
1955 ”; 

(5) in rule 20, sub-rule (b) shall be rc lettered as sub-rule (c), and after 
sub-rule (a), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 

41 (b) Wedges shall be made from tough wood cut to a taper of 1 in 6 and 
shall be not less than l inch thick at the toe; but this provision shall 1 
not apply lo any ship the keel of which was laid before the 4th 
February, 1955.”; 

(6) for rule 21, the following rule and Note shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Security of hatchway covers 

21. Where the coamings are required to be 24 inches hi^h, steel bars or 
other equivalent means shall be provided for efficiently and inde- 
pendently securing each section of hatchway covers* after the 
tarpaulins are battened down. 

At all other hatchways in exposed positions on free-board and superstruc- 
ture decks, ring bolts or other fittings for lashings shall be provided. 

Where the hatchway covers extend over intermediate supports, steel bars 
or their equivalent shall be fitted at each end of each section of the 
covers. 

Note. — The provisions of this rule shall apply to any ship (i) the keel of 
which is laid on or after the 4th February, 1955, and (ii) the keel 
of which was laid before the said date, if in the opinion of the Assign- 
ing Authority compliance with such provisions is reasonable andl 
practicable 



3X2 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 LPaht II— Sec. 3 

(7) in rule 31 — 

(i) in sub-rule (a), the last sentence “Cast iron shall not be accepted lor such 
valves where attached to the sides of the ship.’ 7 shall be omitted; 

(ii) to sub-rule (c), the following sub-rule shall be added, namely: — 

'‘(d) Cast iron shall not be accepted for valves and discharges led through 
the ship’s sides below the freeboard deck or through the sides of 
enclosed superstructures: 

Provided that the foregoing provision shall not apply to any ship the keel 
of which was laid before the 4th February, 1955.” 

[No. 42“MA(3)/54.] 
S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(Paste tnd Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 

SLR'O. 364. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act, 1685 (XIII of 1885) the Central Government hereby directs that 
with effect from the 16th March, 1955, the following further amendment shall be 
made in the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1991, namely: — 

In the first column of the Table annexed to sub-rule (i) of rule 430 of the 
said rules, under the heading "Exchanges”, the words "Jharia”, "Loya- 
bad” and “Sinidih” shall be omitted. 

[No. PHA-48-1 1/52.] 

SLR.O. 210J9. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-rule (5) of rule 430 
•of the Indian Telegraph Rules, 1951, the Central Government hereby specific* the 
16th day of March, 1955, as the date from which the message rate system shall be 
introduced in the Dhanbad, Jharia, Katrasgarh, Loyabad and Sinidih exchanges. 

[No. PHA-48-1 1/ 52, ] ( 
V. M. BHIDE* Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 5th February 1955 

&.R.O. 366. — Whereas on January 21, 1955, an accident occurred five miles 
Aouth of Gauhati aerodrome to a Dakota aircraft VT-COZ of the Indian Airlines 
'Corporation, engaged, in a scheduled flight from Calcutta to Gauhati on a 
freighter service, resulting in the death of all the three members of the crew- 
on board, 

And whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to hold 
a formal investigation of the said accident. 

2. Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 7$ of the Indian 
Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central Government directs that a formal investigation 
of the said accident be held. i 

The Central Government is further pleased to appoint Shri N. S. Lokui\ 
Chairman, Railway Rates Tribunal and Air Transport Licensing Board, to hold 
the said investigation. 1 

The Central Government is also pleased to appoint: 

(1) Shri K, L. Pud, Director of Aeronautical Inspection, Civil Aviation 

Department; and 

(2) Capt K. Vishwanath, Divisional Operations Manager, Air India Inter- 

national 

To act as Assessors to the said investigation, 1 

[No. 17-A/3-55.] 



t’AKf II — Siic. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 315 


S.R.O. 307. — Whereas on February 2, 1955, an accident occurred near Nagpur 
to a Dakota aircraft, VT-CVB, oi Lnc Indian Airlines Corporation, engaged an a 
scheuuloJ thght from Nagpur to Delhi on the north- bound night air service, 
l wsullii.g m me death of ail the passengers and the four members oil the crew 
on bouid, 

A-ti whcrcu., il appeal j to CVrtUal Government that it is expedient to hold 
a formal investigation of the said accident. 

2. Iiov M therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 of the Indian 
Anti-cUb Rules, 1937, the Central fjuvainment directs that a formal investigation 
of the said accident be held, , 

The Central Government is further pleased to appoint Shri N. S. Lokur, 
Chairman, Railway Rates Tribunal and the Air Transport Licensing Board, to 
hold the said investigation, 1 

The Central Government is also pleased to appoint: 

(1) Shri K. L. Puri, Director of aeronautical Inspection. Civil Aviation 

Department; and 

(2) Capt. K. Vishwanatha, Divisional Operations Manager, Air India Inter- 

national 1 

to act as Assessors to the said investigation. | 


[No. 17-A/4-55.] 
B. N. JHA, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi , the 1st February 1955 

S.R.O. 368. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines and 
Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following fuithcr amendment shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, namely; — 

In sub-clause (b) of the proviso to clause (iii) of rule 4G of the said Rules, 
for the words “exceeding such limits”, the words “not exceeding twice such 
limits” shall be substituted. 

[No. MII-159(5)/54J 
T. GONSALVES, Dy, Secy. 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1955 

S.R.O. 369. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made 
in the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, namely:*— 

In the said Rules — 

1. In rule 13 — 

(a) in the first sentence of sub-rule (1), the words “and if he is an indivi- 

dual other than a citizen of India, unless the prior approval of the 
Central Government has been obtained” shall be omitted; 

(b) after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inserted, namely: — 
4t (l-A) (a) Where such person is a company, it shall be incorporated 

under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913); and where 
such person is a partnership firm, it shall be registered under the 
Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (IX of 1932). 

fb) Where such person Is an individual and is not a citizen of India 
or where such person is a partnership firm which consists of one or 
more partners who arc not citizens of India, the State Government 
shall not grant any prospecting licence to such person without the 
previous approval of the Central Government.” 



3i4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [Part II— Sec. 3 


2. In rule 26 — 

la) in the first sentence of sub-rule (1), the words “and if he is an 
individual other than a citizen of India, unless the prior approval 
of the Central Government has also been obtained” shall be omitted; 

(b) after sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule shall be inseited, namely; — 
“(1-A) (a) Where such person is a company, it shall be incorporated 
under the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (VII of 1913); and where 
such person is a partnership firm, it shall be registered under the 
Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (IX oi 1932). 

(b) Where such person is an Individual and js not a citizen of India 
or where such person is a partnership firm which consists of one 
or more partners who are not citizens of India, the State Government 
shall not grant any mining lease to such person without the 
previous approval of the Central Government.” 

[No. M.II-152(33)/54,] 

S.R.O. 370. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1948 fLIII of 1948), the Central 
Government hereby directs that subject to its control tne powers exercisable by 
a State Government under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, shall be exercised 
in the State of Manipur by the Chief Commissioner of that State. 

[No. M.II.152 (101) /5 
M. MALHOTRA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING ANp SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

S.R.O. 371. — The following draft of further amendments in the Petroleum 
Rules, 1937, which it is proposed to make in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 4 and sub-section (1) of section 29 of the Petroleum Act. 1934 (XXX of 
1934), is published, as required by sub-section (2) of section 29. for the informa- 
tion of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby given that 
the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 28th February, 1955. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified wiil be considered by the Central 
Government. 


Draft Amendment 

In sub -rule (1) of rule 7 of the said Rules, 

(a) the port of ‘Chittagong’ shall be omitted; 

(b) for the port of ^Karachi’, the port of ‘Kandla’ shall be substituted. 

[No. S&PII-104(l)/55.] 
U. N. SRIVASTAVA, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 4 th February 1956 

S.R.O. 372, — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(XIV of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award 
of the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the matter of an application under section 
33 A of the said Act from Shri Sourcndra Kumar Mukerjeo, a workman of the 
Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

Application No. 76 of 1954 
(arising out of Reference No. 5 of 1955) 

In the matter of an application U/s 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. 

Present 

Shri L. P. Dave, B.A., LLB.— Chairman. 



3i5 


Part II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


Parties 

Sourendra Kumar Mukerjce, c/o Koyla Mazdoor Panchayat, Jharia P.O., 
Dist. Manbhum — Complainant. 

Vs . 

Lodna Colliery Company (1920) Limited, Jharia P.O., Dist. Manbhum — 
Opposite Party . 

Appearances 

Shri Lallt Burman, Genera] Secretary, Loyabad Labour Union, and Secre- 
tary* Bihar Trade Union Congress, P.O. Dhanbad, Dist. Manbhum— 
For the Complainant . 

Shri U. S. Majumdar, Personal Assistant to the General Manager, M/s Lodna 
Colliery Co. (1920) Ltd., Post Box No. 135, Jharia, Bihar — For the 
Opposite Party. 


AWARD 

This is a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

2. The complainant alleged that he had been in the employment of the 
jpposite party since 25th September 194G; that the opposite party refused work 

orally to him from 22nd February 1954 to 27th April 1954* but allowed him to 
resume work on 28th April 1954. He then worked from 28th April 1954 to 4th 
May 1954; but was discharged on 5th May 1954 without any notice or change 
sheet. This action of the opposite party was in violation of the standing orders 
and also against the provisions of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, as it 
was taken during the pendency of Reference No. 5 of 1954 without the express 
permission in writing from this Tribunal. Hence this complaint. 

3. The opposite party contended that it had not yet discharged the complainant 
as alleged, and hence the present complaint was premature and was not main- 
tainable. It was then alleged that there was an illegal strike at the colliery 
from 0th February 1954 to 19th March 1954, and that during this period loyal 
workers were prevented from attending to their legitimate duties by threats, 
intimidation and show of violence. It was further alleged that the complainant 
committed several acts of misconduct as detailed in the written statement. On 
1st April 1954, he was charge sheeted for the same. After completing necessary 
enquiries the opposite party made an application under Section 33 of the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act to the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes) for 
permission to dismiss the complainant. That application is still pending. It was 
urged therefore that the complainant should be dismissed. 

4. It is an admitted fact that the complainant was working as an electrical 
apprentice at the Lodna Colliery from about 1946. It is also an admitted fact 
that there was a strike at the Lodna Colliery between 23rd November 1953 to 21st 
December 1953 and again from 8th February 1954 to 19th March 1954. The com- 
plainant's case is that he was refused work from 22nd February 1954 to 27th 
April 1954 but he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 
when his services were terminated orally. He has filed the present complaint 
under Section 33 A of the Industrial Disputes Act alleging that the opposite party 
had terminated his services during the pendency of Reference No. 5 of 1954 
without obtaining the permission in writing from this Tribunal as required by 
^Section 33 of the Act. 

5. A dispute between the management of Lodna Colliery and their workmen 
was referred for adjudication to this Tribunal by the Government of India, 
Ministry of Labour, Order No. LR.2 (16) /54, dated 20th April 1954 and was 
numbered as Reference No. 5 of 1954. If the opposite party took any action 
against any of ils employees before 20th April 1954, it could not amount to a 
breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, ro far as the proceedings of 
Reference No. 5 of 1954 (pending before this Tribunal) were concerned; because, 
at that time, there was no reference pending before this Tribunal between the 
management of the Lodna Collier/ and their workmen. Mr. Burman, who 
appeared for the complainant, conceded that he could not ask for any relief in 
respect of the alleged stoppage of work between 22nd February 1954 to 27th 
April 1954, He however urged that the subsequent stoppage of 'work from 5th 
May 1954 amounted to a breach of Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, as 
admittedly at that time Reference No. 5 of 1954 was pending before this Tribunal. 

6. The opposite party has urged that it has not dismissed the complainant and 
also that it has made an application to the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


316 


Disputes) under Section 33 for permission to dismiss him and that the said 
application is still pending before that Tribunal, In view of this contention of 
the opposite party denying that they have dismissed the complainant, the only 
question that was urged before me was that the opposite party had no right to 
withhold the wages of the complainant even during the period of suspension. 
The standing orders of the colliery prohibits suspension of an employee without 
pay, whether pending an enquiry or as a punishment, for a period exceeding ten 
days. It was therefore urged on behalf of the complainant that the opposite 
party was not justified in withholding the payment of wages to the complainant 
for a period beyond 15th May 1954, On the other hand, the opposite party urged 
that it had not suspended the complainant but that the ^ complainant had been 
absent from duty from February onwards (as he had joined the strike). The 
opposite party denied that the complainant had been allowed to work from 28th 
April 1954 to 4th May 1954. 

7. The first question for my consideration therefore is whether the com- 
plainant had been allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 as 
alleged by him. The complainant has been examined at Exhibit 25. He has 
stated that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 to 4th May 1954 and 
that he was stopped from work from 5th May 1954, In support of this allegation, 
he has produced a chit, Exhibit 19, written by Supervisor Nani Gopal Dutt to 
the attendance clerk on 28th April 1954 asking him to allow the complainant 
work from that date. Nani Dutta has been examined on behalf of the manage- 
ment at Exhibit 24. He has denied that the complainant worked from 28th April 
1954 as alleged. He has admitted the above slip; but he says that after he gave 
this slip, the complainant was not allowed to work by the Assistant Manager 
Mr. Mishra and the complainant informed him (Duttal accordingly and that 
thereupon he wrote another slip Exhibit 20 to Mr. Mishra. I do not believe 
Mr. Dutta. It may be noted at this stage that neither Mr. Mishra nor the 
attendance clerk has been examined bv the management to show that the com- 
plainant was not allowed to work from 28th April 1954, though the supervisor gave 
him the slip Exhibit 19 for that purpose. 


8. The management’s case is that a charge sheet Exhibit 10 was issued to the 
complainant on 1st April 1954 but he refused to accept it, There is no evidence 
in support of this contention. The charge sheet Exhibit 10 purports to be attested 
bv two persons to show that it was refused by the complainant but neither of 
these persons has been examined as a witness. In this connection, 1 may also 
mention that in the application under Section 33 made by the management against 
the present complainant before the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Dis- 
putes), no allegation has been made that a charge sheet was issued to the com- 
plainant on 1st April 1954 or that it was tendered to him personally or that he 
refused to accept it. In that application, it was alleged that a charge sheet was 
issued on 30th June 1954 and that it was sent by registered post to the com- 
plainant. I may also point out that Mr. Dutta in his deposition Exhibit 24 has 
admitted that he did not know on 28th April 1954 about any order of suspension 
passed against the complainant. If a charge sheet had been issued against the 
complainant before 28th April 1954, I am sure that the supervisor would have 
been aware about it and in such a case he would not have issued the slip 
Exhibit 19 addressed to the attendance clerk allowing the complainant to work. 
I further think that unless the supervisor had got specific authority from his 
supervisors, he would not have issued that slip. This slip clearly supports the 
complainant’s case that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954. 

9. I may here also refer to a letter Exhibit 20 written by the complainant to 
the Agent of the colliery on 7th May 1954. In that letter, he has specifically 
mentioned that he was allowed to work from 28th April 1954 and that he worked 
in his former place till he was stopped from work from the morning of 5th May 
1954. No reply was sent to this letter by the management. This also would 
support the complainant’s allegation that he had worked at the colliery from 
28th April 1954 to 5th May 1954. 

10. The management have produced their pay rolls which show that the com- 
plainant was absent during this week. I do not attach much importance to these 
pay rolls because none of the persons who wrote them was examined before me, 

11. On the whole, after going through the evidence and circumstances in the 
case, I am satisfied that the complainant "was allowed to resume work on 28th 
April 1954 and that be was stopped from work from 5th May 1954. This would 
moan that the stoppage? of work started from 5th May 1954 and this was after 
the order of Reference in Reference No. 5 of 1954 was made. Even if this stop- 
page of work was because of the alleged suspension of the complainant, the 



Pact II— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 317 


management could not suspend him without pav for more lhan ton days. T'ey 
have already applied for permission to dismiss the complainant by an application 
under Section 33 made before the All India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Dis- 
putes) and the question whether such permission should be plv u n to him or not 
will be considered and decided by that Tribunal. Till the complainant is actually 
dismissed, he must be paid his wages even though he may remain under 
suspension. 

12. It was then argued before me that the present complaint must be dismissed 
because of the award passed in Reference No. 5 of 1954. The order of Govern- 
ment was for adjudication of certain (specific) disputes relating to reinstatement 
of certain workmen and payment of wages to them. A compromise was entered 
into between the management and the workmen as represented by the Koyala 
Mazdoor Panchayat and the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh on 18th September 
1954. There was a further compromise on 17th November 1954. An award was 
passed in terms of the two compromises. One of the terms of compromise entered 
into on 18th September 1954 was that “It was agreed that the company would 
withdraw the proceedings commenced by it under Section 33 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act against the employees of the Lodna Group of Collieries". Another 
clause was that “It was agreed that the proceedings started by the workers against 
the company under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act would likewise be 
withdrawn by them forthwith." It was urged that because of this clause, the 
complainant was bound to withdraw the present complaint, and if he did not do 
so, the Tribunal should dismiss the complaint because of the above clause of the 
compromise. 

13. The complainant is not a member either of the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat 
or the Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh. The management alleged that he was a 
member of the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat and examined the Vice-President of 
the Koyala Mazdoor Panchayat Mr. Sharma at Exhibit 23 In his evidence, 
Mr. Sharma has stated that the complainant was at no time a member of their 
union. He further stated that the complainant had given an authority to their 
union to appear on his behalf in connection with the application made by the 
management under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act; but excepting this, 
the complainant had not given any authority to the union to represent him or to 
appear on his behalf before any other authority or Tribunal, This would mean 
that the complainant had not given any authority to the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat to represent him or to appear on his behalf in Reference No. 5 of 1954. 
Any agreement entered into between the management and the Koyala Mazdoor 
Panchayat would thus not bind the complainant. 

34. The question then is as to what would be the effect of the award passed 
in the above case. As I mentioned above, the order of reference specified certain 
specific points for adjudication under Section 10(4) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
this Tribunal could adjudicate on those points and on matters incidental thereto. 
An award passed in the case would bind all workmen — whether they appeared 
before the Tribunal or not — so far as it decided the specific points ' that were 
referred to the Tribunal or matters that were incidental thereto, If during the 
pendency of a reference, the management committed a breach of Section 33 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, it would giv^ a right to the aggrieved workman to 
approach the Tribunal under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. That 
would be a separate proceeding and could not form part of the award in the 
main reference. Of course, it would be open to a workman or workmen concerned 
to agree to withdraw such a complaint made by him or by them. The union 
also could agree to do so on behalf of its members; but it would not bind those 
workmen wiho were not members of the union or had not given anv authority to 
the union to represent them in the complaints filed by them, In my opinion 
therefore, the clause in the award that the proceedings' started by t s e workmen 
would be withdrawn by them could not be said to be part of an' award as such 
in that matter; it would be only an agreement between the mana^fment and the 
workmen who were represented by the unions who signed that agreement. 


15. In this connection, I may also point out that the management have also 
not so far carried out the clause agreeing to withdraw all applications made by 
them under Section 33 of the Industrial Disputes Act, though they were a party 
to the above agreement and the agreement was certainly binding on them It 
does not lie in the mouth of a person who does not carry out his part of an agree- 
ment to insist on another party's carrying out that parly's part of the agreement 
On this ground also, the management cannot ask that the present complaint 
should be dismissed because of the above agreements, 



3i8 THE GAZETTE of INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1055 [PART II— Sec. 3 


16. In the result, it is ordered that the complainant should be paid his wages 
and dearness allowance and other emoluments from 15th Mav 1954 till he is 
properly dismissed and tiat he should be continued to be paid these amounts 
during the period of his alleged suspension. The arrears due to him up-to-date 
should be paid to him within three weeks of the award becoming enforceable 
and the future amounts should be paid to him as and when they fall due. 

I pass my award accordingly* 

The 25 th January 1955. 

(Sd.) L. P. Dave, Chairman , 
Central Government’s Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad. 


[No. IR-2(10)/54.] 
A, NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 4th February 1955 

S.R.O. 373* — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act 1948 (XXXIV of 1948), the Central Government is pleased 
to appoint Shri P. P. Seth as the Chief Accounts Officer in the Employees' Sta J 
Insurance Corporation with effect from the forenoon of the 1st February, 195 
for a period of one year in the first instance. 

[No. SS.134 (41) .] 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 

S.R.O, 374. — The Government of the State of Punjab having nominated, in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of section 4, read with sub-section 
(°) of section 5, of the Employees’ Stato Insurance Act, 1948 (XXXIV of 1948), 
Shri Mangat Rai, I.A.S.. Secretary, Transport Co-operative, Industries and Labour 
Departments, Chandigarh, as a member representing the State of Punjab in the 
Employees’ State Insurance Corporation in the place of Shri R. P. Kapur, I.C.S., 

1 hr following amendment is made in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O. 2155, dated the 16th November, 1953, 
namely ; — 

In the said notification, for item 12 (which relates to Shri R. P. Kapur, 
I.C.S.), the following item shall be substituted, namely: — 

"'12, Shri Mangat Rai, LA.S.. Secretary, Transport, Co-operative, 
Industries and Labour Departments, Chandigarh.” 

[No, SS, 121(98). 1 
K. N. NAMBIAR,, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 7th February 1955 

S.R.O. 375. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No. S.R.O. 3304. dated the 20th October 1954 published at pages 2557- 
2558 of the Gazette of India Part II Section 3, dated the 30th October 1954, at 
page 2558 for “(5)” before the words “No Child” read “(4A)”. 

[No, LWI-24(153)53.] 


New Delhi t the 9th February 1955 

S.R O. 376 — In rcise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (XI of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri T. K. Parameswaran Nambiar, Secretary, Madras Port Trust, to be a member 
of the Advisory Board appointed in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour, No. S.R.O, 2088, dated the 21st June, 1954, vice Shri 
T, S. Parasurarrmn, and directs that the following amendment shall be made in 
the said notification, namely: — 

Under the heading “(2) Representatives of Employers” for the entry “L Shri 
T* S. Parasuraman, Deputy Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Transport, New Delhi”, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“1. Shri T. K. Parameswaran Nambiar, Secretary, Madras Port Trust.” 

INq. LWI-2 (26) /54- (ii) *] 



Part II-$ec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


New Delhi , the 10 th February 1955 

S.R.O. 377. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 7 and 9 of the 
Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (XI of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates 
Shri P. D'Mello, General Secretary. Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, Nagindas 
Chambers, Frcre Road, Bombay — 1, to be a member of the Advisory Board 
appointed in the notilleation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, 
No. S.R.O, 2088, dated the 21st June, 1954, in the vacancy caused by the resignation 
of Shri Dinkar Desai and directs that the following amendment shall be made 
in the said notification, namely: — 

Under the heading "(3) Representatives of Employers”, for the entry “4. Shri 
Dinkar Desai, Servants of India Society, Sardar vallabhbhai Road, Girgaum, 
Bombay— 4”, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: — 

“4. Shri P. D’Mello, General Secretary, Transport and Dock Workers’ Union, 
Nagindas Chambers, Frere Road, Bombay — 1.*’ 

[No. LWI-2(26)/54-(i)J 
A. P. VEERA RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


New Delhi , the 8 th February 1955 

S.R.O. 378. — In pursuance of paragraph 4 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
Scheme, 1952 t the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Hrishikesh 
Banerjee, Assistant Secretary, West Bengal Committee of the All India Trade 
Union Congress. 249, Bowbazar Street, Calcutta- 12, to be a member of the 
Regional Committee for the State of West Bengal in the vacancy caused by the 
resignation of Shri Indrajit Gupta and directs that the following further amend- 
ment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No, S.R.O. 1278 dated the 20th June, 1953, namely: — 

“(9) Shri Hrishikesh Banerjee, Assistant Secretary, West Bengal Com- 
mittee of the A1J India Trade Union Congress, 249, Bowbazar Street, 
Calcutta-12." 

[PF. 518(10)WB.] 
TEJA SINGH SAHNI, Under Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY TIIE MANAGER, GOVT, OP INDIA PRESS, NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1955 



’i 



