मिस्ट्री को 


REGISTERED No. D . 222 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


V 


. 


प्राधिकार प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- - - - - - 


- -- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


4 .34 

ई ली, शनिवार, प्रगस 21 , 1971/ श्रापण 30, 1893 
No. 34 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, AT G ! ST 21, 1971 SRAVANA 30, 1893 

- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 
इस भाग में भिन्न पष्ठ संख्या दी जाती ह जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filled 
as a separate compilation , 

- - - - - - --- - - - - 
भाग II --- सा 3----उपखण्ड (ii ) 

PART II - - Section 3-- Sub -section (ii) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयों नीर ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़फर ) 

फेनीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक प्रादेश और अधिसूचनाएं 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ). 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1971 
S . O . 3031, In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Judgment . dated the 21st 
May, 1971 by the High Court of Judicature at Patna In Election Petition No . 2 of 
1970. 

ELF CTION PETITION No 2 OF 1970 
In the matter of an application under Sections 80A and 81 of the Represen 
tation of the People Act, 1951 . 
Shrimati Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh - Petitioner . 

Versus 
Shri Niral Ainam Horo- -Respondent. 
For the petitioner Messrs Basudev Prasad , Narendar Prasad , C . B . Belwariar, 

R . N . Sahay and Mrs . S . R . Jaiswal. 
For the respondent: Messrs Manllall and Daya Nand Singh . 

The 21st of May , 1871 
PRESENT 
The Hon ble Mr . Justice s. Wasluddin. 

( 4235 ) 


4236 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 (PART II — 

- : 
WASIUDDIN , J . - - This petition relates to 51 Khunti Parliamentary ( Scheduled 
Tribes ) Constituency for the election of which the present petitioner Shrimati 
Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh has Aled nomination papers and the same were rejected . 
Shri Niral Ainam Horo who is a respondent in this case was elected at that election . 
The present petition has been Aled on the ground that the nomination papers were 
illegally rejected by the Returning Officer . 
2. The case of the petitioner brielly stated is as follows : 
Petitioner is a citizen of India belonging to the State of Bihar and she is a 

voter und her name is enrolled in the electoral roll of the 51 Khunti 
Pariiamentary (Scheduled Tribe ) Constituency. She was married to 
late Shri Jaipal Singh , who was a Munda and she by religion is a 
Christian . According to the Munda custoinary law , when a Munda 
male marries outside the Munda tribe and if his marriage is accept 
ed by the Munda tribe, he continues to be a member of that tribe and 
his wife acquires the membership of the tribe and she is also a mem 
her of her husband s family with all rights of succession to her hus 
band s properties . The petitioner by birth was a Tamil and she was 
married to late Shri Jaipal Singh in the year 1954 according to the 
rites and rituais of the Munda in the presence of Parha Raja , Parha 
Munda , Parha Pahan , relatives of late Shri Jaipal Singh and the mem 
bers of the tribe at Morabadi, one of the mohallas of Ranchi town . 
After the aforesaid marriage she was received into the family of late 
Shri Jaipal Singh at his village home in Takra , police- station Khunti 
in the district of Ranchi , in accordance with the Munda customs, 
such as, by washing of her feet by the eldest sister of late Shri Jaipal 
Singh whose name is Shrimati Kristomani. A Murica Pahan celebrat 
cd the myriage of the petitioner in Unda customary manner with 
feasts of he - goat meet and drinks of Handia , The petitioner was also 
given a new naine by her mother- in - law , and the name given tn her 
was Lankashr , All these functions were witnessed by the Parha 
Raja , Parha Munda , Parha Pahan and other members of the tribe. 
The new name was also given to her because the members of the tribe 
according to the tribal customs were prohibited from calling her by 

her maiden -name, 
3 . The details ot the ceremonies which were performed have been given in the 
petition and these are as follows : -- 

" ( a ) The marriage took place by the sanction of the trihe. 
(5 ) Hiraman Pahan did the Kalas Asthapan in the Marw where the 

the marriage ceremonies were performed . 
( c ) Tilak of mixture of blood of the bride and the bride- groom was given 

and a he - goat was sacrificed , 
(d ) The younger sister of Late Sri Jaipai Singh took the petitioner from the 

place of worship to his house for lier reception . 
( e) Petitioner s feet were washed with the blood of the sacrificed cock . 
(1) A new name was given to the petitioner since the daughter- in -law is not 


w name was ricinal maiden -name, roup in questione 


Het hy mete the Mundan cat lade sa 


( g ) The members of the Munda Tribal group in question celebrated the 

marriage by a feast of mcat of he- goat and drinks of Handia at the 

expense of the bride- groom s (Late Sri Jalpal Singh s ) family ." 
4 . The petitioner also after the death of her husband succeeded to his proper 


ties . 


5 . On the 1st of May , 1970 the Election Commission of India Iseued a notifica 
tlon ( alling upon thn above -namen Parliamontarv Constituency to elect a member 
or the Lok Sabha ( 1ībuise of the Peop e of India ) in the vacancy caused by the 
death of Lato Sri Jipal Singi . . las il routication also in the Gazette and 
the last date for ling the nomination papers was the 8th May , 1970 . The 9th 
of May, 1970 was the date of scrutiny of the nomination papers . Several other 
persons Aled nomination papers , such as, Sri Thodore Bodra . Sri Matiyas Demta 
and others whose naines are mentioned in the election petition . Two nomination 
papers were Aled on behalf of the petitioner , who was a Congress (Ruling ) candi 
date for the atoresaid by - election to the Lok Sabha . The nomination papers of the 
petitioner were July filed in accordance with the reguirements of law and they 
were accompanied with the necessary certificates of the Pahanş of the tribe in 
question and of the District Welfare Officer of Ranchi and of Sri Shiva Chandrika 
Prasad , a member of the Lok Sabha to the effect that the petitioner is the widow 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 . 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4237 


of Late Sri Jalpal Singh and is a mcınber of the Munda Scheduled Tribe in the 
State of Bihar. "Inese certificates are annexures to the petition and they are 
Annexures 1 to 1 / 2 . It is also stated in the petition that the District Welce Officer . 
who granted the certificate was duly authorised both under the delegon of 
pouers of the Cibirict Onicer concernell, namely ine Deputy Commissioner of 
Ranchi and in cxercise of his own powers to certil y that a person belonged to ono 
of the Scheduled Tribes including the Munda Sheduled Tribe within the district 
of Ranchi Nomination papers with the endorsements thereon are also as An 
nexure 2 to 2 / 1 to the petition , 

6 . Sri Bodra who was one of the rival candidates filed an objection petition to 
the nomination papers of the petitioner . The scrutiny of the nomination papers wax 
held on the 9th of May, 1970 and the objections of Sri Theojore Bodra as well as 
tho oral objections of the other candidates was heard . The petitioner was also 
heard through her consul by the Returning Offcer. After hearing these persons 
the Returning Officer illegally reserved order in the case till 130 PA although the 
law enjoincil lipon him to pass orders in presence of the parties inmediately 
alter the hearing of the objections. On the same day , that is on 9th May , 1970 at 
4. 30 P . M . the Rçlulling Officer passed an order and rejected the nomination papers 
of the petitioner witacut holding any inquiry about ulle matter as enjoined by law 
and without giving adequate opportunity to ilie petitioner to adducc further evi 
Hence , if necessary , 11 respect of her c aim of the membership of the Munda Tribe . 
The Rouming On : er while htaring the objections illegally allowed irrelevant 
personal aspersions to be cast against the petitioner by her opponents even after pro 
tests made on hehalt of the petitioner and it has also been stated that on inquiry as 
to why the Returning Officer was conducting himself in that manner, the petitioner 
came to learn from responsible persons of the locallty and from the above -mention 
ed Sri Matiyas Deinta himself that the Returning Olfiner had been influenced by Sri 
Theodore Bucra , who was the Chairman oi the Billar Legislative Council at the 
relevant point of tire . The nonination papers of all the candidates except those 

I the , lliu ! ! 1. 11 accepted as valid by the Returning Omcer . The polling 
Chereafler va ; held and then on the 3rd of June, 1970 ne Returning Officer 
Announie. 10 1 1 oi the election and declared the respondent as a member of 
The Lok 41 hin (ul) the aforesaid Constituency . 

7 . According to the petitioner the election of the respondent to the Lok Sabha 
Scheduled Tribe Parliamentary Constituency is voice and I will and is fit to be set 
iside on the grounds inter alia that the Returning Omcer acted in a mala fide 
manner and deprived the petition of legal right to contest the by - election in 
question and that the fundamental right oi equal treatment guaranteed under Arti 
cle ( 14 of the Constitution was also iníringed . The Returning oicer also com 
nitted crror in arbitraarily and illcgeliy holcling that the status of Munda Tribc is 
IcCulled only by picars of birth and not by marriage ani that the politioner did 
10t lelong to the Mund Scheduled Tribır even though her husband helonged to 
hat Tribe and the Tribe had acceptent that marriage and her inembership of the 
Cribe, The Returning Offrer also acted without jurisdiction in omiiting to consider 
he ( listom ol wluchi judicial notice is to be taken that if a Munda maie mairies a 
women not belonging to the Mundo Tribe and he is accepted by the Tribe , hc con 
inues to be a member of the Trlbe and his wife acquires the membership of the 
rihe and herones Lember of her husband s family . The Returning Onicer also 
vas not lght i rejerting the certilicates whirl had been filed by the 
petitioner along with th nomination papers and the Returning Oncer also acted 
without jurisdiction in going into the question of litle and placiny of onus on the 
petitioner wherl under the provisions of Section 36 of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951 read will Articles 342 and 330 of the Constitution of India along 
with the Presicle . tial Oracrs in relation to the Scheluled Tribes in the State of 
Bihar , it was his duty to accept the petitioner as a member of the Munda tribe and 
her valuable right to stand as a candidate for election to the Lok Sabha to re 
present the members of the Tribe was denied to her . The Returning Oficer was 
not justitled in marily rejecting the nomination papers Aled on behalf of the 
petitioner , 

8 . Originally wlier this election petition was Aled , the petitioner impleaded 
only Sri Horo as a respondent in the petition and I have already stated that 
he was declared to be elected from that seat. Afterwards a petition was filed 
making a prayer that the other contesting candidates were not necessary parties as 
conteinplated by Section 82 of the Act, but may be added subject to any objection 
which may be raised . Those persons were also then added as parties to the peti 
tion , Vide Order dated 29 - 7 - 1970 and thereafter it was submitted on behalf 
of the petitioner that they were not necessary parties and hence on the prayer 
of the petitioner their names were expunged . There has, therefore, been only one 
respondent in this petition . 


4238 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA AUGUSI 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 IPA 


II - 


9 A writle statement was flied on behalf of the respondent and his case 
briefly state is as follows: The respondent stated that although the petitioner 
wan " ay wife of Late Sri Jaipal Singh , she was never niarried according 
to custurns of Munda tribes prevalent in Cholanagpur. The petitioner was 

Ho never accepted as a member of the Munda community and there is also no 
such custoins provalcnt under which a 11011 -Muida is accepted as a member of 
the Tribe. As regards the formalities as the rituals which are said to have 
been observed at the time of the marriage uſ the petitioner , it was submitte l lliat 
al] such alicgations were imaxinary and burden lins on the petitioner lo establish 
that such rituals were observed at the time of her marriage with Late Sul Jaipal 
Singh . It was also further submitted that even ussurning though riot admitting 
that she was married to Late St Jaral S : 7 , 1) , she cannot claim to be a member 
of the Scheduled Tribe which she was not by her birth . According to the 79 
pondent the petitioner was a nominee of Congress (Ruling ), but the petitioner 
concealcd this fact that she was not a meinber of the Scheduled Tribe from the 
authority of the Congress ( Ruling ) otherwise she would not have been ali cled as 
yuch . It has also been submitted by the respondent that the nomination papers 
filed by the petitioner contained lalse deciarations as well as the certificates rofer 
red to in the electiun petition as Annexures 1, 1 / 1 and 1 / 2 are also fa ye , illegal 
and fraudulently obtained with undue infuence on the persons concerned . Simi 
larly the certificate was obtained from the District Welfare Officer fraudulently 
after misrepresenting the facts . The nomination pupers filed on behalf of the 
petitioner were rightly rejciled and full opportunity had been given to the peti 
tioner and the other contesting candidates to raise objections and mect the ob 
jections which were raised . It is also said that the election petition was barred 
by limitation and that duc to non -impleading the necessary party , a contesting 
candidate against whom serious allegations of corrupt practice are made ond SO 
the elertion petition is liable to be dismissed . The petitioner is not a Munda 
and has never been legally treated as such by virtue of the alleged marriage with 
Late Sri Jaipal Singh A non -Munda merely by virtue of marriage with a Munda 
cannot ?p90 frecto become a Munda . 

10 . It may be mentioned hero that during the pendency of this election peti 
tion the House of People (Lok Sabha) was dissolved on the 27th December , 1970 . 
A petition had been Aled on behalf of the respondent that the election petition 
should be dismissed as being infructuous. There was objection to this and after 
hearing the parties I passed orders that the election petition could not be dis 
missed on this ground , vide my order No. 31 dated the 14th of January , 1971. 
11 . The following issues have been framed in this case : - - 

( 1) Is the election petition maintainable ? 
( 2 ) Whether the petitioner was the legally married wite of Late Sri Jaipal 

Singh , according to the custom of Munda Tribe prevalent in Chota 

nagpur ? 
( 3 ) Whether the petitioner could legally acquire the status of a Munda by 

virtue oi her marriage to Late Sri Jalpal Singh and whether she had 

been accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe by the said Tribe ? 
(4 ) Was the petitioner eligible to be a candidate for the election in ques 

tion ? 
(5 ) Was the nomination paper of the petitioner wrongly and illegally re 

jected by the Returning Officer ? 
( 6 ) Was the Returning Officer bound in law and in the circumstances of the 

case to hold an inquiry and whether any such enquiry was held by 
him according to law and whether opportunity had been given to the 

petitioner in respect of her claim for further enquiry ? 
(7 ) Is the rctitioner entitled to any reliet ? If so , to what extent. 

Findings 
12 . Issue No. 1. - -Now as far as this issue is concerned , the only objection which 
has been taken is that the present petition suffers from the defect of non - joinder 
of necessary party , and as such is liable to be dismissed on that ground . It may 
be again mentioned here that originally when this election petition was Aled the 
present respondent Sri Horo who was successful at the election was only implead 
ed in this petition , but later on , a petition was fled on behalf of the petitioner 
making a prayer that the other contesting candidates were also necessary parties 
and as such they should be also made parties in this petition . Order had been 
passed for impleading them as parties and this included the name of Shri T . 
Bodra, who was one of the contesting candidates . Later on , a prayer was made 
on behalf of the petitioner that on reconsideration it was found that such of those 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30), 1893 4239 


- 


- 


- 


person , who were subsequently added were 10 : nccessary partics and, therefore , 
their names ty te duced it was in its cliezt ühist thenam : s were expung 
ed from the le orci includin : Sri T . Bods Sri T . Boura is , herefore, not a 
party ti tliis present piccecoing . It has been urged on behalf of the respondent 
that Sii T . Budia was a necessary party to this petition under clause ( b ) of 
Scion 82 or the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (herçinafter to be refer 
red to as the Act ) . In paragraph 21 of the petition ( to which I have also made 
á leierence while stating the facts of 1 casc ) ciiegations were irade to the effect 
thai tha licluining Officer under the influence vi Sri T . Lodra rejccied the nomi 
Hiilon paper of the petitioner . Paragraph 21 oľ the election petiiion recites as 
follows: 
" That the Returning Omcer, whlie incaring the objections illegally allowed 

irrelevai personal aspersions to be cast against the petitioner by her 
27011erili zad the aforesaid yen alter protests macle by and on 

telalf of the petitioner , Smt. jahanora against the same. On enquiry 
as to wliy The Returning Officer was conducting imself in that 
manter the petitioner ( ame io lcarn from responsible persons of the 
Locality and from the above mentioned Shri Matiyas Demta himsell 
that he had been influencer by the said Sri Theodora Lodra , who 
vas Chairman of the Bibar Legislative Council on the relevant date 

an lier oiler opponents against her, " 
It will appear iron a perlisal of the aforesaid paragraph that there is no doubt 
that a nite allegation had been made by the potitioner to the effect that she 
learnt on inquiry that the Returning Officer was conducting himself in a manner 
prcjudicial to the petitiuller b : cause he was under the influence of Sri T . Bodra , 
who was Chairman of the Bihar Legisiative Council. It has, therefore , been urged 
that since there was a direct allegation against S1 T . Bodra , so he was a necessary 
party and there has been non -compliance with the provisions of clause (b ) of Sec 
tion 82 of the Act . 11 has been contended , on the other hand , that this election 
potition cannot ( nil on this ground because there was only a recital about the 
allegation in paragraph 21 of the petition , but the petitioner has not rclied on it 
279 las not lcd any cvidence with regard to the same. It may be stated here 
thal apart from such a recital in paragraph 21 of the petition no evidence what 
soever in this respect was lcd on behall of the petitioner nor any such question 
was put to any of the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondent to elicit 
answers about the veracity of the ailegation made in paragraph 21 of thc peti 
tion . It may be . ptioned here that it was only when the petitioner herself was 
examined as P . W . 12 in this case , then in the cross -examination the learned counsel 
for the respondent drew her attention the recital in paragraph 21 and she admitted 
that she had made such an allegation in the petition , but there was 110 assertion 
in her evidence or in the evidence of any other witness that the allegation which 
had been made there was true. It may be also mentioned here that the petitioner 
has solely based her case on the ground that the noinination paper was illegally 
and improperly rejected . No relief has been sought that it was under undue 
influence and no allegation in the evidence has been made that the order of re 
jection by the Returning Ollicer was bad on Iccount of his having passed such 
an order under the undue influence of Sri Bodra , In my opinion , In view of the 
circumstances, stated above, when no prayer or relief is being yought on the 
basis of the allegation made in paragraph 21, so Sri T . Bodra in that light does 
not appear to be a necessary party . 

13 . The matter has to be examined from another point of vicw also whether 
under the provisions of the Act, it was necessary for the petitioner to implead 
Sri Bodra . Chapter II of part VI of the Act deals with presentation of election 
petition to Election Commission . Section 32 of the Act lays down as to who 
should be the parties to an election petition , Section 82 of the Act runs as fol 
lows : 

" 82 . A petitioner shall join as respondent to his petition 
(a ) where the petitioner , in addition to claiming a declaration that the 

election of all or any of the returned candidates is void , claims a 
further declaration that he himself or any other candidate has 
been duly elected , all the contesting candidates other than the peti 
tioner , ard where no such (urther declaration is claimed , all the 

raturned candidates ; and 
(b ) any other cardidate against hom allegations of any corrupt practice 

are made in the petition ." 


It may be stated here that in this election pctition no rclief has been sought 
for as contemplated by clause ( a ) of Section 82 , quoted above and , therefore , 


4240 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 ( PART II 


. . . . .. 


clause ( a ) Section 82 would not be applicable in thiz case . It may also be stater 
here that the learned counsel for the respondent has also not relied on clausę ( a ) 
of Section 82 but he had relied on clause (b ) of Section 82 of the Act. Clause 
(b ) Section 82 of the Act makes it imperative that, any other candidate meaning 
of course a candidate other than one who has been eiected should also be made 
a party if there are allegations against him in the petition of any corrupt prac 
tice . 

14 . An important question , therefore , arises for consideration as to what is a 
corrupt practice and for this I may refer to Section 123 of the Act. This Sectiuni 
clearly ſays down as to what are the acts which will be deemed to be a corrupt 
practice within the meaning of the Act. Reliance has been placed on sub -section 
( 7 ) of Section 123 of the Acu by the learned counsel for the respondent. Sub - section 
( 7 ) of Section 123 of the Act runs as follows : -- - 

" 123 . The foliowing shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes 
of this Act : 


( 7 ) The obtaining or procuring or ubetting or attempting to obtain or pro 

cure by a candidate or his agent or, by any other person with the 
consent of a candidate or his election agent any assistance other than 
the giving of a vote for the furtherance of the prospects of that candi 
cate s election , from any person in the service of the Government 

and belonging to any of the following classes , namely : - 
( a ) gazetted officers ; 
(b ) stipendiary judges and magistrates : 
(c ) members of the armed forces of the Union ; 
( d ) members of the police forces ; 
(e ) excise officers; 
( t ) revenue omcers other than village revenue ollvers known as lambar 

dars , malguzars patola , deshmukhs or by any other name whose 
duty is to coilect land revenue and who are remunerated by a share 
of, or commission on , the amount of land revenue collected by them 

but who do not discharge any police functions ; and 
g ) such other class of persons in the service of the Government as muy 

be prscribed . 
Laplunatvin . - ( 1 ) In this section " agent" includes an election agent, a polling 
agent and any person who is held to have acted as a agent in connection with 
the election with colisent of th3 candidale . 


(2 ) For the purpose oť clause ( 7 ). a pereor shall be deemed to assist in the 
furthcrance (at the prospects of a pandidate s ertion If he acts as an election 
agent of that candidate ." 


This section thorstore, lays down that if there is any allegation about the obtain 
ing or procuring or abottng or attenipting to obtain on procure uy a candidate 
or his agent. . . . for the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate s election , from 
any rerson in the service of the Government and the classes of such Government 
servanis are enumerated in the section . The important words are " for the fur 
therance of the prospects of that candidate s election ." There is no allegation hero 
that Sri T . Bodrin did anything in the clection itself , and the only allegation is 
that he exercised his influence in getting an order of rejection of the nomination 
paper of the petitioner . In my opinion , strictly speaking the allegation as con 
tained in paragraph 21 of the petition would not com , within the scope of sub 
section ( 7 ) of Section 123 of the Act oncl alternatively even if it does then the 
Other answer is that no prayer or relle has been sought for on that account. It 
will be deemed that although such allegation was made yet it haş been giveir up . 
I have already discussed above this aspect it the matter . I may also in this 
connection retor to Section 100 of the Act. It lays down as to what are the grounds 
for declaring an eicction to be yoid and clause ( c ) oť Snoilo 100 of 111.2 A clearly 
lays down that if any romination has been improperly rejected it vould be onc 
of the goruads for declaring the election voidl. Here in this case , I have al 
ready pointed above, the main pank of the retitioner s case dy that there was 
improper rejection of her nomination paper which was conírary 10) !iw and it 
was with mul jurisdict! on . The question whether there was unde i lluence on 
not rinnat orise for consideration and in determination of this point has to be 
mado. Yo ; ther rotant reating to the maintainability of this present petition 
has been raised and therefore , in view of the facts , stated above, this issue is 
decided in favour of the petitioner. 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRA VANA : 0 893 24 


15 . 189ue Nos . 2 to 6 - All these issues are inter - connected and these can be con 
veniently discussed together. There were two nomination papers Aled by the peti 
tioner and these are Annexures 2 and 2 / 1, The proposers were the electors in the 
Constituency. Both these nomination papers were supported by a declaration by 
the petitioner to the effect that she was member of the Munda Scheduled Tribe 
As stated above, objection was filed by Sri T . Bodra and the objection petition is 
also an annexure to this election petition . The main objection was that the poti 
tioner is a daughter of Sri T . C . S . Jayaratnam , I. C . S . (Retired ) of Ceylon and she 
was married to Late Sri Jaipal Singh on the 8th of May, 1955 . It may bo mentioned 
here that the petitioner s case in this present election petition is that she was 
married in May, 1954. However, turning again to the objection petition which was 
filed , the ground of objection was that a person can claim to be a member of the 
Munda Tribe only by birth which is a deciding factor but the petitioner is not a 
Munda by birth and only on account of her marriage, she cannot be a member of 
the Munda Tribe. The Deputy Commissioner , Ranchi who was the Returning 
Officer and has also been examined as a witness in the case , vide R . W . 1 rejected 
both these nomination papers by one order . The main reason for rejection was that 
the descent is by birth and according to him thc ethnic status cannot be acquired 
by marriage . The aforesaid order of the Returning Omcer in this present election 
petition has been attacked by the learned counsel for the petitioner on three main 
grounds. The first ground is that on the basis of materials on record , such as, the 
evidence and the circumstances it ought to have been held that her marriage with 
Late Sri Jaipal Singh was according to the Munda custom and that she was accept 
ed as a member of the Munda Tribe at the time of the marriage. So she is a 
member of the Munda Tribe. The second ground of attack is that the order of the 
Returning Officer rejecting the nomination papers is in excess of the powers con 
ferred on him under Section 36 of the Act. The third contention which has been 
raised is that even assuming that Section 36 of the Act confers such a power on 
the Returning Officer , such as, to determine the status and rights of a certain person , 
who has filed a nomination paper , then such power is ultra vires of Articles 14 , 372 
and 330 cf the Constitution of India . 


16 . Now hefore I discuss the evidence in the case which has been adduced and 
the circumstances emanating from the evidence it will be better here il I refer to 
the relevant provisions of law which would require consideration . Part XVI of the 
Constitution of India begining from Article 330 onwards deals with the special pro 
visions relating to certain classes. Article 330 of the Constitution provides for the 
reservation of scats fu. cortain special classes , such as, the Scheduled Tribes as 
mcntioned in clause 1 (b ) of Article 330 . I need not refer to the other clauses 
because here in this case we are concerned with the Scheduled Tribes. Article 342 
of the Constitution lays down that the President may with respect to any State or 
Union territory and where it is a State , after consultation with the Governor thereof 
by public notification specify the tribes or tribal comununities or parts of or groups 
within tribes or tribal communities which shall for the purposes of this Constitu 
tion be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes in relation to that state or Union territory , 
as the case may be . Clause ( 2 ) of Article 342 of the Constitution also lays down 
that the Poliamient may by law include in or cxclude from the list of Scheduled 
Tribes specified in a notification issued under clause ( 1 ) any tribe or tribal com 
munity or part of or group within any tribe or tribal community , but save as 
aforesaid a notification issued under the said clause shall not be varied by any 
subsequent notification . We are also not concerned here with this latter clause of 
Article 342. Now in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of Article 342 
of the Constitution the President has been pleased to pass an order and this is 
called the Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order , 1950 and it reads thus 
" In exercişe of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of Article 342 of the Con 

stitution of India , the President, after consultation with the Governors 
and Rajpramukhs of the States concerned is pleased to make the 

following Order , namely : 
1. This Order may be called the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes ) Order , 

1952. 
2 . The tribes or tribal communities , or parts of, or groups within tribes 

or tribal communities , specifſed in Parts I to XII to the Schedule 
to this Order shall, in relation to the States to which those parts 
respectively relate , be deemed to be Scheduled Tribes so far as 
regards 177embers thereof rekent in thr localities specified in rela 

tion to them respectively in those Parts of that Schedulc . 
3 . Any reference in this Orde. , except parts IV and VILL OL the Schedule , 

to a State or to a district or other territorial division thereof 
shall be construed as a reference to the State district or other 
territorial division constituted as from the 1st day of November, 


1212 THE PALETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART 1 


- 


1956 and any reference in Parts IV and VII- A of the Schedule 
to a State or to a district or other territorial division thereof shall 
be construed as a reference to the State , district or other terri 
torial division constituted as from the 1st day of May , 1960 . 


Now in the Scheduics given in this Order , I may turn to Part III which is in 
respect of the Scheduled Tribes in Bihar and item No. 24 mention : Mura . So 
reading this Order along with the Schedule "Munda is one of ine Sosedulau Tribes. 
In view of the facts which I have stated above, a very important qucsiion which 
will have to be decided is whether the petitioner can be deemed to be a rierer 
of the Scheduled Tribes as contemplated by the Constitution of Scheduled Tribes 
Order , quoted above, 

17 . Section 36 of the Act deals with the scrutiny of nomination and sub - section 
( 2 ) confers power on the Returning Officer to reject the nomination papers . I 
need not dea ) here in detall with the other provisions at this place because I will 
have to revert again to these provisions when I deal with the Order passed by the 
Returning officer , I may , however , in this connection refer to Section 3 also of the 
Act which deals with qualillcations for membership of Parliament. It lays down 
that a person shall not be qualified to be chosen as a representative of any State 
or Union territory in the Council of States unless he is an elector for that Parlia 
mentary constituency in that State or territory . This would naturally mean that 
a nomination paper has to be scrutinized in light of the provisions contained in 
Section 3 of the Act. 

18 . There are certain facts in this case which are elther admitted or not dis 
puted . The petitioner does not claim to be a member of the Munda Scheduled 
Tribe by virtue of her birth , but she claims to be so by virtue of a marriage with 
a Munda , viz , Late Sri Jaipal Singh and the marriage was after observance of such 
formalities which show that with the necessary consent and sanction she had been 
accepted as a member of that Tribe. This position is not disputed that Late Sri 
Jalpal Singh was a Munda . It also appears that the petitioner is hersell a Tamil 
by birth as stated by her in her petition . It is also clcar from her owii petition 
that she is a Christian by birth though in her evidence she has stated that she is 
a Christian yet she has leaning towards Budhism . Further it may also be men 
tioned here that this position is also not disputed that Late Sri Jaipal Sinon had 
been married earlier , but he had divorced his first wite . The present petitioner 
had been also married earlier , that is , before her marilage with Late Sri Jaipal 
Singh and as it appears from her own evidence she also obtained a divorce . She 
had Aled a suit in which a decree Nisi had been passed and this decree Nisi was 
made obsolute on the 6th of May , 1954 and so after that when she became free, she 
married Latę Sri Jaipal Singh on the 7th of May , 1954 . In the petition only the 
year 1954 has been mentioned , but the date of the marriage has not been men 
tioned . It may also be mentioned here that from the written statement fled on 
behalf of the respondent as well as evidence which has been led on his behalf to 
which I will be presently refererring the fact that she was married to late Sri 
Jaipal Singh has not been disputed . But the real controversy between the parties 
18 on the point whether the marriage was in such form that would make her a 
member of the Tribe. It may also be mentioned here that according to the 
respondent as has been vehemently argued by the learned counsel for the respon 
dent that as she was not a Munda , so a marriage of a Munda with a non -Munda 
could not be permissible in any circumstances and a non -Munda lady marrying a 
Munda can never become a member of the Munda Tribe . 


19 . Now I will take up a discussion of the question whether the petitioner on 
the basis of the evidence adduced in the case and in the circumstances of the 
case, has been able to prove that her marriage with Late Sri Jaipal Singh was 
according to the Munda custom and it was in such a form that she was accepted 
and treated and thus became a member of the Munda Tribe. There are twelve 
witnesses examined on behalf of the petitioner including the petitioner herself 
who is P . W . 12 , and six witnesses in all were examined on behalf of the respon 
dent. The evidence adduced on behalf of the petitioner can be classiflcd into two 
categories . The first category is of the witnesses, who were not witnesses of the 
marriage ceremonies , but have stated that she by virtue of such a marriage has 
become a Munda and that such a marriage is permissible amongst the Mundas . 
The witnesses in this respect are P .Ws. 1, 3 and 4 . The other category of the 
witnesses is of those consisting of course of the Para Raja Pahan , who performed 
the morriage and the relations of Late Sri Jaipal Singh , such as P .Ws. 2 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 
8 , 9 , 10 and 11 who have stated about the actual ceremony of the marriage , 
P . W . 12 . as stated above, is petitioner herself. 


- 


- 


. 


. 


SEC. $ ( i ) ] THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1835 4243 
= 

- - - - 
20 . P . W . I is J . B . Hembrom , who is a Deputy Collector and he was posted at 
Ranchi in the capacity of District Wolare Oficer . He has siated that as a Wel 
tarc Oflicer his duties were to look alter the weifare of the Scheduled tribes , 
scheduled castcs and depressed and backward classes . He was under the Deputy 
Commissioner Kanchi and has also stated that according to the instructions issued 
by the Government and ihe delegation of the authority to him by the Deputy 
Commissioner , he had been also empowered to issuc caste certificates. It may be 
again mentioned here that he had granted a caste certificate to the petitioner to 
the cffect that she was a member of the Munda Scheduled Tribe, and this certi. 
ficate had been attached to the nomination paper by the petitioner . I may in 
this connection refer here to the Government publicaiion issued oy the welfare 
Department of Bihar which is a compendium of irnportant circulars and letters and 
in this case compendium there is a Government letter merno NO, II [ / S2. 109 / 50 -3284 
dated the 19th March , 1958 and it has been siated in this letter of the Government 
addressed to all Heads of Departments and tile District Officers ihat when a can 
didate who belongs to & Scheduled Casi ? or a Scheduled Tribe is required to sub 
ini. a corificate that iic belongs to it Schociuied Casic / Tribe along with his appli 
Cation for a posí under the State Government some dilliculiy is experienced in 
obtaining such a certificaie . In order to avoid any inconvénierice to candidates 
belonging to the Schoduled Castes / libus in this connection Governinent have 
decided that in all cases where a candidate for appointment to a post under the 
State Government is required to furnish suci) a certifcate from any one of the 
officers mentioned in thl lette , shall we accepted . The District Iviagistrote 15 one 
of the oilicers who has been authorised under this letter to issue caste certificate , 
The evidence oí P . W . I has to be read along with Ext. I which shows tie dist. ibu 
tion of work among the officers and Sri lleinbrom ( P . W . I ) was authorised by this 
clocument by the District Magistrate , that is , the Deputy Commissioner to issue 
caste certificates. There can be no doubt that by virtue of these documents P . W . I 
had been duly empowered and authorised to issue caste certificate . The letter 
refers only to certificates granted to persons who apply for posts , but in this case 
the certificale was granted to a candidale for the meinbership of the Parliament, 
I think that this will not make any difference . There can be no doubt about the com 
petency of the certificate granted by this officer . It may also be mentioned here 
that the Returning Omcer also look into consideration this certificate , but in view 
of the totality of the circumstances which he has discussed in his order he did not 
place reliance on this document. The question now arises as to what value should 
be attached to such a certifcate . It appcars from the evidence of P . W . I that he 
had not made personal inquiry before granting the certificate and his certificate 
was really based on his personal knowledge of this fact that the petitioner was the 
wife of Late Sri Jalpal Singh . It may be said that as he had not made any inquiry 
or verifcation , so he could not be in a competent position to state what he has said 
In his certificate . But there is one another thing also about which this qilicer has 
stated because according to him if a Munda marries a non -Munda and if a feasi is 
given and if the elders of the society accept that marriage and participate in the 
teast, then the wife of that Munda would become a meinber of the Munda Tribe. 
It can also be equally argued with force that being the District Well are Officer he 
was in competent position to state about this . The evidence of this witness Ands 
ample support from the evidence of the two other witnesses of this category , viz . 
P .Ws. 3 and 4 . 


21. P . W . 3 is Thakur Rameshwar Sharma, who is an Assistant Director in 
Sociology , Bihar Tribal Welfare Institute , Government of Bihar, Ranchi, One of 
his duties is to render advice to the Government on such matters as may be re , 
ferred to him for advice and opinion concerning the field and scope of his work , 
He has stated that at present he is doing research work on the subject Bihor 
Tribal Marriage and Family Transformation with special reference to fainily law . 
One of his duties has also been to meet ad come in contact with the members of 
different tribes to ascertain facts relating to the subject of his research . He has 
stated that Late Sri Jalpal Singh Marang Gomka (big leader ) was known to hin , 
He has also stated that recently he had been asked by the Government to report 
on the status of issues by mixed tribal marriages and he has submitted his report 
to the Government, and he has gathered Information about the marriage of Jain 
Singh in the course of his contacts with the trihal people . He has further stated 
that in 1954 or near about 1954 a Munda male could marry a non -Munda girl and 
after adopting a special procedure in some cases such non -Munda women were ac 
cepted us members of the tribe. A procedure or formality according to him has to be 
gone through in which council of elders of the tribal people is consulted and the 
special reason for the purpose is stated and then the cast rituals likę jati is gone 
through and then the marriage is allowed . He has also given instances of such 
marriages and has stated that near Lclipur in Singhbhum there is a Santhal 
Pradhan and there was a marriage of his according to this special procerlure . The 


4244 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II - 


research work done by this officer has also been recognised by the Government of 
India and he has also stated that in this connection, Dhabar Commission s report 
may be also congulted where his name finds mention at many places. This wit 
ness of course did not attend the marriage ceremony of the petitioner and he had 
also 110t been to village Takra which is the ancestral Vilage home oĽ Late Sri 
Jaipal Singh but on the basis of the research work which he has veen doing , he 
has stated authoritatively that now a Munda can marry a non - Munda provided the 
required forinalities in the family are gone into and the elders of the community 
give their approval and sanctiori, a non -Munda woman so married is accepted and 
becomes a member of the Munda Tribe. 

22. P . W . 4 is N . C . Choudhuri, who is the Superintendent of anthropological 
Survey of India , Ministry of Education . He is an Anthropologist and he has to 
undertake feld stulies in different parts of India , mostly among the tribal com 
munities . He has also stated that lunda tribal custom was an assignment given 
to him In 1965 -66 . He has further stated that as an Anthropoligist when one has 
to study custom , the marriage necessarily forms a very important part in the study . 
It also annears from hi? evidence that certain customs among the tribes arc statio 
but some are not static . He has sluied that some custom change more rapidly , such 
as, custom of ( L ess as compared to the custom of rules of marriage and rules of 
inheritance . Now as far as a Munda tribe is concerned , he has stated that he 
found sufficient variations in the marriage custom of the tribal people and in the 
course of his research he found that a Munda could marry a non -Muda girl and 
this was even before 1954 . He has stated that he could not say what was the 
manner of such marriage , but he could say as to what would be social curisequence 
of such marriage . According to him there are three kinds of unusual marriages . 
One is of the kind where a Munda boy marries a non -Munda. The second kind of 
unusual type of marriage is Parjati, that is, when a Munda girl marrics a non 
Munda boy and the girl goes out of the community . The third type of unusual 
marriage is where a Munda boy marries a non -Munda girl whatsoever may be 
origin it thał non lIude girl, T110 social consequence of the last type of unusua. 
marriage is Jati Bora . It is regarded as an offence against the whole community 
and normally the boy along with his family is ostracised and in all soclal matters 
their participation is tabooed . But he has at the same time also stated that there 
is a process by which both the boy and his wife can be admitted into the com 
munity . This process of admission into the community is known as Niyar. That 
means " to bring in or take in " . But the offending party invites the members of 
the Parha , gives them a feast , a white goat is sacrificed , blood is smeared on 
the body of the boy ind the girl along with Tarmolík and then thoy are allowed 
to sit along with the members of the community in the same pankti , and after 
this is over, they are formally considered as the members of the coinmunity . 

23. It may be also mentioned here that it has also been urged that the marriage 
of Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh could not have also been approved because she was a 
divorcee and Jaipal Singh had also divorced his wife . It may be mentioned here 
that this position was not disputed that Jalpal Singh had been married and he 
had issues by that marriage, but there had been a divorce and Jaban Ara Jaipal 
Singh had also been married , she had obtained a divorce from her previous 
husband . P . W . 4 stated that there are variations now in custom in which widower 
or widow can also marry. He has also stated that he has not coine across any 
case in which divorcee non -Munda woman married to a Munda . But he las 
also stated that where a non -Munda divorced woman marries the Parha has socially 
accepted and sanctified it . 

24 , I will now take up a discussion of those witnesses , who have deposed about 
the actual ceremony of marriage of Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh , P . W . 2 is Sri 
Mahendra Singh , who is Deputy Secretary , Forest and Excise , . , Patna 

He is a Bhagina of Late Sri Jaipal Singh . He attenter the marriage ceremony . 
There can be no doubt about his competency to depose about the marriage because 
being such a close relation naturally he must have attended the marriage . The 
only thing of course which can be said against him is that since he is related to 
Sri Jaipal Singii and the present petitioner , so he cannot be regarded as a disin 
terested wit.less The testimony of a witness ! v not be discarded only in this 
ground . Now turning to his evidence , it appears that he attended the marrięge 
and he has also stated that the marriage ceremony had been performed by H raman 
Pahan . Hiramai) Pahan has also been examiaed on behalf of the petitioner and 
he is P . W . 10 . P . W . 2 has stated that th . marriage was performed according to 
Munda rites and after the performance of he marriage there as a feast at 
Munda rites and after the performance of the marriage there was a feast at 
as. of P . W . Zand other witnesses shows that there was at first a ceremony of 
marriage at Morabadi, one of the quarters of Ranchi where Late Sri Jaipal Singh 


SEC . (ii) ! THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4245 

- - - - -- - - - - 
- - - 


was residing and thereafter Jaipal Singh and the petitioner went to village Takra 
which is the ancestral village of Jaipal Singh and there also ceremonies were per 
forned . This witness has stated about the ceremony at Morabadi and he has also 
stated that on the next day both his uncle and aunt were taken to Takra and he 
had also accompanied them . 

On arrival in village Takra they were taken to Sarana which is a place of 
worship of Mundas . His mother also came there and washed the feet of his uncle 
and Jahan Ara with water. After this there was the washing of their feet with 
the blood of a white cock . There was also an exchange of Pllak at Sarana and 
atte : this there were some other functions in the house and on the next day there 
was a sacrifice or a goat . The meat of the goat was distributed & Prasad to the 
nicmwers of all the tribes and there was also a Bhuj and feast with Handiya . This 
witness admitted that he has also married a non -Munda girl and he was married 
accorciato Munda custom rites as well as according to Hindu Law . There is 
one another comment also about the evidence of this witness and it is this that 
naturally he would be supporting the case of the pulitioner when he himself has 
also married a non -Munda girl . The fact that he has married a non -Munda girl 
and there are other instances also which are apparent from his cvidence and it 
appear : lat this practice is now becoming cmmon miong the Bundas llat a 
Munda is marrying an non -Munda and so it is quite possible that in view of such 
situation there has been a variation in accepting such marriage but of course cer 
tain presciibed ceremonies are gone through and there is acceptance of the same 
by the elders. 


25 . P . W . 5 is Puskar Saman , lle is a witness on the point that he also attended 
the macriage of the petitioner with Late Sri Jaipal Singh in May , 1954 . Ile has 
stated that this marriage took place at the house of Sri Jaipal Singh and at the 
time there were several political leaders , some relations and persons of his village 
present including the Parha Panchayat and Sri Jaipal Singh at that time made 
a declaration that he was going to marry Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh . The political 
leaders whı) were present at that time did not say anything , but the Parha 
Panca) ..VAL ther moved away from that place and then they had a deliberation 
mong then .selves. After this they returned to tho place where they were all 

itting and thien they said that iľ Jaipal Singh wantec to marry then he would 
have to marry according to their marriage custom arid rites . On that day nothing 
had happened and on ihe next day Jaipal Singh was ndrried and the inariage 
ceremony was performed by a Pahan os Village Takra . This witness is also 
given the details of the ceremonies which took place in the Mandan which had 
been specially prepared and then on the next day they went to village Takra This 
wit . - ; admit din h . ( 1941 -cxaminalion that the ceremonies about which he 
2015 stated were of exceptional type bei ure this was an exceytional type of 
inariaye . It also appears from his evidence that rapid developments anr ! 
assiinilation of other cultures are ta sing place among the Mundial.ecause according 
to the statenrents made by him , he belongs to Panch Periana area of Chotanagpur 
and 00 per cent of the Mundas of this area have tocon ! Hindupised and have 
adopte : Hinau customs retaining certain trihal customs, such as that their tribal 
Brahinan perioris the marriage rites . Il was suggested to this witness in the 
cross - examination that the Pahans had given sanction to this marriage because 
of the great influence of Jaipal Singh , as he was on All Incla leader . This witness 
has denied this suggestion and has stated that it was not a fact that on account 
of the influence of Jaipal Şingh the Pahans had given the sanction because there 
had been other cascs also where such sanctions had been given . It may be 
mentioned here that the suggestion made to this witness in the cross -examination 
also shows that such a sanction had been given , but it was under influence . The 
lart that such a sanction had bcen obtained by uncle influence has also not been 
Specifically pleaded in the written statement oí the respondent . 


21 . P . W 6 is A M . Patar, who is a Social Welfare Organiser of Tisco 
Community Development Department He had been invited on the occasion of 
the marriage ceremony of Late Sri Jaipal Singh and he attended the same. His 
evidence is also to thn effect that Parha Raja and Pahans had come and after 
deliberations they had said that if Jaipal Singh winted to marry Jahan Ara , then 
it shohiI be performed according to their customary r tes . On the next day Jiraman 
Pahon performed the marriage . In Hats also given the details if the ceremonies 
which took place at that time. 


27 P . W . 7 is Lalit Munda and Irom his evidence it appears that lie was serving 
under Late Sri Jaipal Singh as a personal se : vant and he has also stated about 
the perforniance of the marriage ceremoney 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


2446 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 911 / RAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART 1!- - 
-- -- - - - -- - - - - 

- : - 

- - -.. - — 
23 . P . W . 8 is Lauilar Singh Pihun . Hä . Parna Raju ul viilce Pallus, viz ., Takra 
Farha , Sacu Parha and Sangha Parha . Undoubtedly he wa. an important member 
of the council of elders inclusive of yillac Takra , chat is , the ancestial home of 
Late Sri Jaipui Sinali . He has alsu Stalin aboui the performance at lvorabaui and 
thereaiter at Takra . He has also stacel hat ihc Samaj of ine lvunaa Tribe 
accepied the inarriage. It also appeais irvill m5 evidence that there are other 

cunces also where a Munda hau marricd a non -Munda . He has stated that 
he attended a marriage of a Munda who had married in Tatanagar witn a Ho Girl, 
and after this sanction was given to such a marriage. It was suggested to this 
witness also which he of course denied that because of the inliuence of Jaipal Singh 
und wecause he gave them drinks, they had agreed to his marriage . 

29 . P . W . 9 is Khudi Singh Munda . He is a Kutumb ( relation ) of Jaipal Singh . 
He had been called at the time of the marriage . Ile has also stated that tne Paras 
of the village had gone there. A reference was made to the Parhas and the Farhas 
have their permission . The marriage cercmony was performed by 1111aman Pahan 
According to Munda customary rites and that after the marriage at Jiorabaji 
Jaipal Singh and Jahan Ara left for village Takra on the following day and on 
arrival at village Takra all the Ave sisters of Jaipal Singh washed the leet of 
Jahan sira and Jaipal Singh He has also staled about the ceremonies which 
took place 

30 . P . W . 10 is Hiraman Pahan and he is a very important witness because 
evidence shows that he had performed the mariage ceremony. There can be 
no doubt that, he was Pahan of the village . it may also be mentioned that 
a certiiicat granted by him had also been filed alon , with the romination paper. 
Now thrring to the cvidence of this witness, it appears that people of twelve Parhas 
were called to attend the marriage ceremony . They were asked if they would 
Kecept the marriage and take Juhan Ara as ine woman of their community and 
they all went there and got them married and then they took them to Takra . He 
has stated that he was the Pahan who performed the rituals of the marriage and 
after the marriage they enjoyed the feast after killing goats et Takra . He has 
stated that this marriage was performed according to Munda custom and this 
marriage was accepted by the Munda Saraj. He has also admitted that a certificate 
had been granted by him . 

31. F W 11 is Odo Pahan . He was also one of the Pahars, who had attended 
the marriage . In his examination - in - chief he tested that Jahan Ara was married 
at Morabadi about three years or a bit more. This was obviously incorrect and 
it appears that he has really no idea of time berause when he was questioned 
as to what his age was , he stated that he could rot give his own age, and when 
he was asked by Court if he could count, then he stated that he could count up to 
twenty . He also admitted that he had no idea of the month and the year. 
Considering the capacity of this witness in this respect, I think that this 
stutement of his that the marriage took place three years ago is of no importance 
at all 

32 . The last witness cxamined on behalf of the petitioner is Jahan Ara valpal 
Singh herself who is P . W . 12 . She has stated that she had obtained a divorce by 
her previous husband and thereafter according tu the Munda custom and with the 
sanction of Parahans and others she had been married to Sri Jaipa Singh . She 
has also described the ceremonies which had been performed . She has also stated 
that at the time of the marriage ceremony Sri Jaipal Singh s mother ernbraced 
her and changed her name and the name which was given to her was Lankasri , 
She has admitted that she had been married once before , but she had divorced her 
husband. She has also stated that she had obtained a decree Nişi and this Nisi 
decree was inade absolute on the 6th of May , 1951 and that is why she had been 
married after the 6th of May , 1954. The learned counsel for the respondent has 
submitted that no such decreo had been Aled and further that her evidence shows 
that negotiation for her marriage through the intervention of common friends had 
taken place long before the passing of the absolute decree and as such it was 
improbable that such a marriage could have taken place. In my opinion , there is 
nothing linprobability of this if negotiation had een going on . The parties had 
to wait till the decree Nisi was made absolute which according to her evidence 
was made absolute on the oth of May , 1954 . The learned counsel for the respon 
dent also subinitted that nothing has been lod to show that she was not married 
under the special Marriage Act of 1954 which is a special provision of marriages 
of this type , but, in my opinion , when the petitioner never asserted that she had 
been morried under the Special Marriage Act, then there could have been no 
Occasion or necessity of Aling any document to show that there was any such 
marriage under that Act 


- 


- - 


- 


-- - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- -- 


- 


- - - 


O 


wijli) THE GAZUITE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVNA , 13 247 

- - 
33 . The iespondent, on the other hand , as stated above, has 
witnesses and it may be stated here that no witness has been examined in lis 

examined six 
behaji , who could say thúi on actual or the study aula de research inade on this 
tribai 2cn .nunity such a marriage even aer the changes could }10 i liave been 
aucepidid by the community . Now it ci lnc sis witnesses eatininei un benali ol 
the l ex-foliuent, R . v . is S S . P . Shukia , who irás e Deputy Commissioner and 
the Returnina Jihva , at vide relevani Point os tine . His evidence is only abou . 153 
rejective Ci lile nomination paper, wo his evidence need ilul be discussed at thi: 
stage . 

31 . R . W . * is süus Guria . He is a Tvíunda and he is a Fresident oi Bui Para 
hali of als village . He has sírei hat h . 21 , Jaipal Singh ko vas á leader 
T 

Dilje and aiso knew his eldest 30 .) red the time . Inca he was lu years 
Olise viiltom : 01 as that Jaipal Singhi (t s rivi marry artei ine naixiage 
W ! 112 i Lívie vi the son of luis camed lins m . Aeruing to this witness 
no será rivirriage to place . This witness lias isu slated that in a wornan oť 
he : 11 acccra oes and lives with a male person . then this kind of marriage is 
calie k ! Pre ji rivone of his iribe brinse and marries anyone without the 
consen of the parents , then this form is called Sagaż. According to him , that 
Dhuku type of woman is not given any right under the Munda cistuin and if there 
are issues by the Dhuku type of marriage , then they are excommunicated from 
the tribe , but after the death oi the parents , they are taken in the tribe . This 
witness has tated that he did not know what was the connection between Jahan 
Ara and Jarpal Singh , but he could only say this much that during the election of 
1957 he used to see both of them moving about together . This vitress himsel is 
a Christian ana he has stated that marriages amongst them are according to 
Chrivial rites . His evidence also shows that he observes only Christian festivais 
so much so that Sarhul festival which is an important festival of the Munda Tribe. 
but that is only observed by non -Christians. He was not Cresent at the time 
of the marriage . He had also no occasion of going to Takra and since he was a 
Christian himself, so it is very difficult to say that he had intimate knowledge 
about (ne prevalent customs of the Munda Trio 

33 . & W . 3 is Jura Bhagat, who is also á Munda . He knew Jaipal Singh of 
the Munda Tribe. He has stated that in his community only unmarried girls and 
unmarried boys are married and no marriage is performed in Munda Tribe with 
a livorced woman or with a woman who has bcen leit by her husband and that 
no one of his tribe can marry a non -Munda woman or a non -Munda man . Accord 
ing to him , the marriage custom is being userved in such an extreme form 
and with such rigidity that if the wife of acertain person of the tribe dies , then 
he cannot remarry and if he does remarry , then this woman has the status of a 
Dhuku wunan only and that such a woman would be excommunicated from the 
tribe so much so that she will not be allowed to be buried in burial ground of the 
tribe. This witness also stated that persons of his tribe cannot marry persons of 
another tribe. He also stated that if the Parha Tiaja and the Pahan of the Elka 
permit such a marriage , then that can be permitted , but only amongst the members 
of the same tribe. He has stated that he did not know of any instance where a 
Munda had married a non -Munda , 

36 . R . W . 4 is Samuen Horo . He has stated that he knew Jaipal Singh and he 
had a son nanied Amar Singh . This fact has not been disputed that Jaipal Singh 
by his first wife did have a son . This witness has also stated that Jaipal Singh 
was Murda and this witness is also a Munda . He has described the ceremories 
which take place at the time of a marriage in Minda " ribe . He stated that in his 
tribe if a person is married and then his wife e ther leaves him cr cies, then in 
that case there can be no remarriage of such a person . Further on he stated that 
if a person who has been already married and has wife has either left him or has 
died and then he wants to marry , then this form called Sagai form of marriage 
and if a woman is married and her husband either dead or has left her and she 
goes and lives , with another person then it is called Dhuku form of marriage . 
Futher on he stated that in his tribe a Munda cannot marry a non -Munda male 
or female . According to this witness , therefore, there can never be any sanction 
or approval for a marriage with a non -Munda . He was also a cardigate for the 
election and li was suggested to him that ne had come to depose falsely because 
Late Sri Jaipal Singh did not recommend nim for being given a ticket to contest 
the election , 


37. R . W 5 is Bir Sirgh Munda and his evidene way also to the same effect 
that if a non -Munda woman ones and lives with & Munda then this will be called 
Dhuku form of marriage and she will not get any right and status according to 
the Munda custom According to this witnsss if any Munda marries a non -Munda . 


4248 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II - - 


then he has to be excommunicated from the tribe. Jalpal Singh as I have already 
pointed adinittedly was a Munda and he married a non -Munda , so according 10 
this witness he ought to have been excommunicated . but this witness has stated 
that he did not know if Jalpal Singh was excommunicated from the tribe. He 
also further or stated that he knew only tnis much that Jaipal Singh was a 
Leader and he did not know anything further regarding him and that he had no 
Occasion to go to yillage Takra , that is the ancestral home of Jaipal Singh , 
According to this witness also the marriage is performed is a Mandap and certain 
ceremonies are celebrated and if the ceremonies are performed in this manner 
then the marriages would be deemed to have been accepted by the tribe , 


38. The last witness examined on behalf of the respondent is N . E . Horo , that 
is , the respondent himself . He is R . W . 6 . He has stated that Jaipal Singh had 
been married and his first marriage was with a lady who was probably the 
grand - daughter of late Sri W . C . Banerji, who was one of the founders of the 
Indian National Congress . As regards the petitioner this witness has stated that 
Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh was living with Jaipal Singh and it was said that he 
had married her . He also stated that Jahan Ara Jaipal Singh was not a Munda 
but she was a Tamil and that she did not have any right or status of a member 
of the Munda Tribe. He has also stated about the funeral ceremony of Jaipal 
Singh after his death . I will discuss this spect of the matter separately . I have 
already referred to this fact that two of the witnesses , viz ., P .Ws. 1 and 2 (Sri 
Hembrom and Sri Mahendra Singh ) , who are admittedly Mundas have married 
non -Mundas. The respondent also in his evidence admitted that Hombrom had 
married an Uraon and the wife of Mahendra Singh is Arya Punjabi. This 
witness also stated that Jaipal Singh continued to be a Munda until his death , 
This will clearly show that he had not been excommunicated and as already re 
ferred to the evidence of one of the witnesses for the respondent who stated that 
he did not know if Jaipal Singh had been cxcommunicated . If Jaipal Singh 
had been excommunicated because of his marrying a non -Munda , then certainly 
it would have been a matter of great importance and of notoriety . Therс would 
have been therefore, evidence on behalf of the respondent in support of the fact 
that he was excommunicated , but there was no such evidence and the state 
ments made by the respondent himself rather show that he had not been ex 
communicated . This is also a circumstance worthy of consideration . I may also 
in this connection refer to the answer given by the respondent towards the con 
cluding portion of his evidence, where he has stated that now a days it is per 
missible for a male Munda to marry { non -Munda female, but she will not be 
Accepted as a member of the Munda tribe and that if a female Munda marries 
a male non -Munda , then in that case the female will be excommunicated from 
the Tribe and the male cannot be taken as a inember of the Tribe . This also 
supports the fact that there has been some change since it has become permissi 
ble for a male Munda to marry a non -Munda, But according to this witness, she 
will not be accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe. It also appears froni the 
evidence of the respondent that the custom among the Mundas is changing and 
it is dynamic and not static . It also appears that there are members of the Tribe 
who can be regarded as Hinduaised Mundas or Christianised Mundas. 


39 . The evidence which I have discussed above , therefore , would show that 
on the one hand there was an assertion by the petitioner herself and her wit 
nesses that the marriage of the petitioner was performed after the observance 
of all the formalities and ceremonies and with the consent and the approval of 
the tribal leaders and that she was accepted as a member of the Munda Tribe. 
The evidence on behalf of the respondent is, on the other hand , that no such 
permission can be accorded and in no cage can a non -Munda woman martying a 
Munda become a member of the Munda Tribe. It also appears from the evidence 
that there have been many instances of such marriages where a Munda male has 
married non -Munda female and this is evident from the evidence of P . W .s . 1, 2 , 
3 , 8 and the evidence of R . W . 6 . the respondent himself to which I have referred 
above. 


40 . The petitioner also led evidence on the point that late Sri Jaipal Singh 
died in Delhi and then his dead body was brought to Ranchi by plane and there 
after the dead body was taken to his ancestral home in village Takra where the 
funeral rites were performed according to the Munda custom and he was burried 
in the Munda burial ground. A number of witnesses have been examined on 
this point on behalf of the petitioner , such as, the petitioner herself who is P . W . 
12 and others . viz ., P . W . s . 2 , 6 , 8 , 9 and 10 who attended the funeral ceremony 
The respondent, on the other hand , led evidence to the effect that the dead body 
was taken to village Takra, but the funeral rites were performed according to 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4249 
.. . - - . - . - T - -- -- 

. .. - - -.. - - . . . 
the Christian faith and that the body was taken to the Church and then the 
burial was in the church cemetry in village Takra , But on a consideration of the 
evidence and the circumstances which emanate from their evidence , I am inclin 
ed to believe that the petitioner s case in this respect was correct that the funeral 
rites were according to the Munda customs. In my opinion , the question whe 
ther the funeral rites were performed according to the Munda custom or not is 
also not very important when it is admitted that Jaipal Singh was a Munda 
until his death and the question which has to be determined is whether the 
petitioner by virtue of her marriage has become a member of the Munda Tribe 
or not and this question would not te materially affected as to how the funeral 
rites took place . 


41 . Now besides the oral evidence which I have discussed above, reliance has 
been placed on several books of scholars who had studied and made a research 
on this subject . One of the important books in this connection is called " The 
Mundas and their Country " by Sarat Chandra Roy . It may be mentioned here 
that the publication of this book was in 1912 . So naturally enough this book 
cannot be an authority as to what the present custom amongst Mundas was 
particularly in the year 1954 when this marriage took place. The Returning 
Officer has also referred to this book particularly to page 403 of this book which 
is a Chapter called " The Tribal Organisation and its Development into Social and 
Political Organisation " . It has been stated in this book that descent came to be 
traced through the father and no longer , as before through the mother . The 
Returning Ollicer relied on the observation in this book to show that the Munda 
Society was a Patriarchal Society and one becomes a member of the Munda 
Tribe by virtue of birth and one cannot become a member of the Tribe on 
account of the marriage with a Munda. I may in this connection refer here to 
other relevant portions and observation of this book . At page 400 of this book 
it has been stated that the Munda tribe is divided into a large number of ex 
ogamous groups called kilis and according to Munda tradition , all the members 
of the same kili are descended from one common ancestor . Mr. Roy has also> 
stated in his book 
“ Though exogamous as regards the kilis, the Mundas arc endogamous go 

tar as other tribes are concorned . Thus, there can now be no valid 
marriage , according to Munda custom , between a Munda and the 
member of any other Kolarian tribe , such as the Santals , the 
Kharias, the Aasurs , or the Birhors ." 


This observation no roubt shows that according to the strict Munda custom pre 
valent at the time when the author wrote this book a marriage with a non -Munda 
was not at all permissible and it could not be regarded as a valid marriage . I 
may also in this connection refer herc to the observation at page 436 of this book 
where the author has stated that in the matter of marriage, as in geveral other 
matters, the Mundas appear to have modified some of their ancient customs and 
practices in initation of those of their Hindu neighbours of olden Times. The 
author has also given an illustration that early marriages were quite infrequent 
amongst well - to -do Mundas , but the days are still remembered when no young 
Munda could marry before he was able to construct a plough with his own hands 
nor would a Munda girl be given away in marriage before she could , with her 
own hands, weave mats with palm - leaves and spin cotton . It also appears from 
the research which has been made by the author that in inodern days, the selec 
tion is ordinarily made for the boy as well as for the girl by the father or other 
guardian . The boy s approval of the guardian s selection is , however , frequently 
sought for, and generally obtained . The Icarncd counsel for the respondent has 
also vehemently argued particularly on the basis of the evidence which has been 
adduced by him that the Arandi was a form of marriage and the marriage of 
Munda with a non -Munda could not be in accordance with any of the lirescribed 
form of marriage. It appears from page 444 of this book that Arandi is a word 
which denotes the marriage ceremony itself and several forms of marriages have 
been given in this book , 


42. The next book to which I will refer is also a very authoritative book 
called "Tribes and Castes of Bengal by H . H . Risely . He was a member of the 
Indian Civil Service and Volume II of this book is Ethnographic Glossary . This 
is also a very old publication which is of the year 1891 and so the facts stated 
in this book can be of help in showing as to what was the state of affairs at the 
time. It appears from this book and this was also an undisputed position that 
very severe restrictions are imposed amongst the Mundas as far as marriage in 
their own kills or sect is concerned . Risely in his book at page 102 has devoted 


4257 THU GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Pirr 11 

- - - - 


- - 


- 


a topie on the question of marriage amongst the Mundas. He has stated as 
follows: 
" Traces still survive among the Mundas of a form of marriage , resembling 

the Santali nir bolok . It is called dhuko era, meaning a bride who 
has entered the household of her own accord . The children of a 
womali t ! ? , marricd dim tu huVA and interior status in respect of 

their rights to inherit the landed property of their father .” 
It appears from this hat the Dhuko form of marriage was also being tolerated 
and the children of such a marriage were given an inferior status in respect of 
their rights to herit tiie landed property Ile has also given a very interesting 
illustration . It spears that late Babu Rakhal Das Haldar, Manager of the 
Maharaja of Chotunagpur , gave an illustration to the author of this book and 
this was or the case of a Munda of one of the villages having died lcaving an 
only son by a dhuko era wife . The question arose whether this son had a right 
to succeed . Under the orders oť Colonel Dal. on s a number of headmen of 
villages were called together , and their opinions were taken , but no decided re 
sults, however , could be arrived at . Some thought that the son should get the 
whole property . Others proposed to exclude him altogether, and a third party 
considered him entitled to maintenance , and eventually the question was com 
proroise : by admitting ille son s riglit to onc - fourth of the land and the whole of 
the person I property . The author of this book has, thereforc, observed the case 
is a curious comment on the uncertainty of tribal custom " . This clearly shows 
that the author after research and study came to the conclusion that there was 
an element of uncertainty in the Munda tribal custom because it was variable 
and thus it can be said that it was not static , but dynamic and liable to changes 
by impact and assimilation of different cultures and surroundings. It also up 
pears that the author after studying came to the conclusion that the widows also 
may marry again by rituals known as Sagai in which sindurdan is performed 
with the left hand . It also appears that divorce was also allowed at the in 
stance of either party , and divorced women were permitted to remarry , I have 
referred to these facts only with a view to show that there are changes which 
are taking place in the Munda custom . 

43 . Learned counsel for the respondent has relied on certain passages from a 
book called Encyclopaedia Mundarica by Rev . John Hoffmann , S . J . In Volume 
1 ( a ) at page 127 onwards under the word " angir Nag " illustrations have been 
given how punishments were imposed by the society in cases of moral transgres 
sions. These all show that punishments are imposed , but the facts stated therein 
would not by themselves show or prove that what was not permissible by the 
Munda customs at that time is still not permissible . 

44 . I may also in this connection refer herc the Volume 15 of the Encyclo 
paedia Britannica ( 1965 ) in which there is a chapter about the Mundas at page 
991. It has been stated there thus 
" At present the process of Munda assimilation to the larger Indian society , 

facilitated by improved communications and the introduction of a for 
mal system of education under the British , is being accelerated under 
the independent government of India , The Munda speaking peoples, 
with the other Indian tribal groups , are being encouraged to adopt 
new customs and to become fully participating members of Indian 

society ." 
I may also refer here in this case to the Encyclopaedia of Religion and Ethics by 
James Hastings, Volume IX , pages 1, 2 and 3 where also it has been stated as to 
how the Munda customs etc . are being changed with the impact of the influence of 
the Christianity . 

45 . In a book on the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act (Act VI of 1906 ) , published 
by J . Rcid , I. C . S ., Settlement Omcer of Chota Nagpur in 1910 , there is a chapter 
in this book called the Special Memorandum on the land system of Munda 
Country by the Rev . Father J . Hoffmanin S . J . It appears from this article in 
this book that the pure Mundari Khuntkatti village usually contains three ele 
ments , namely , ( a ) the Khuntkattidars, ( b ) the parjas or raiyats, and ( c ) the 
subsidiary castes" . The khuntkattidars are descendants in the male line of the 
original founders of the village. As such they are all akin , of equal status and 
differing in wealth mainly owning to differences in size of the families of their 
ancestors . The Mundari race is made up of separate clans or septs , called kilis , 
for which in some parts of Hindi equivalent word is gotra . There is a strict pro 
hibition that the members of one kili on no account partake of the sacrifices 
offered by those of a different kili. There is also an observation to the effect of 
marriage transfers the wife from her paternal kili, to the kili of her husband . 
It appears, therefore , that according to the Munda conception also by legal fiction 
of wife becomes a member of the kili of her husband . 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4251 


46 . Learned counsel for the petitioner has also relied on a Division Bench 
decision of the Assamı High Court in the case of Wilson Reade versus C . S . Booth 
and others , reported in A . I. R . 1958 Assam , page 128 . This was also in connection 
with an election and the short facts of that case were that the appellant was the 
nominee of the political party called the Eastern India Tribunal Union . The 
security of the nomination papers was held and the nomination paper of the 
appellant was rejected on the ground that the appellant was an Anglo - Indian 
within the meaning of the word is defined in Article 366 ( 2 ) of the 
Constitution and was thus a member of the scheduled tribe and was 
not entitled to be nominated as a candidate for the reserved seat 
for the members of the tribe . It may also be mentioned here that the father of 
the appellant was an European and he had married a Khasi and a question arose 
for consideration whether the appellant would be considered as a member of the 
Khasi tribe. It was held in that case the question a person can be regarded a 
member of the Khasi tribe under the Constitution is a question of fact depend 
ing upon the evidence produced in the case and it will have to be inferred from 
the totality of circumstances and that the question of a person s domicile is by 
itself not enough to confer any particular status on him , but it is certainly an 
element in determining a fact as to whether he was regarded as a member of the 
Khasi tribe or not . It was also further held that the political status of an indi 
vidual and what electoral rights he possesses have no doubt to be determined 
in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution , but it cannot be assumed 
that when the Constitution and the order issued under the provisions of the 
Constitution uses the word Khasi tribe . It only means a Khasi of pure blood . 
The right to seek election for the reserved seat has been conferred on a member 
of the Khasi tribe. The question whether an individual who is seeking election 
for the reserved seat is or is not a member of the Khasi tribe will heve to be 
determined by the courts when they are required to adjudicate upon that question 
and in the absence of any definition of the word Khasi tribe in the Constitution 
or in the law , the test which will determine the membership of that individual 
will not be only the purity of blood , but . . . . . . . . . . . . his own conduct is follow 
ing the customs and the way of life of the tribe and the way in which he was 
treated by the community and the practice amongst the tribal people in the matter 
of dealing with persons whose mother was a Khasi and father was a European . 

47. As regards the constitutional safeguards it was held that the whole object 
of reserving a seat for the Khasi tribe is to afford the community as a whole a 
right of representation and to give the community as a whole a protection and , 
therefore, the question of the membership of a particular individual of that com 
munity cannot be considered divorced from the very object of the leeislation , 
The conduct of the community which has been given a right of special repre 
sentation , the manner and how the community regarded the particular individual 
and whether the community as a whole intended to take the individual within 
its fold are all matters which will be relevant for consideration of the question as 
to whether within the meaning of the Constitution , the person could or could not 
be regarded as a member of the Khasi clan . It may also be mentioned here that 
it was a matriarchal tribe and that is why the membership has been considered 
form the point whether the mother was a Khasi or not . The facts of that case 
are certainly distinguishable from the facts in the present case because there 
the appellant claimed to be a Khasi by virtue of birth and it was held that 
unless the definition be otherwise , the word Khasi tribe docs not mean purity 
of blood . But here in this case the right has not been claimed by virtue of 
birth , but by virtue of marriage because the petitioner claims firstly that she 
was married to a Munda and secondly that the marriage was in such form and 
with such sanction and approved that she has become a member of the Munda 
Tribe. 

48. The decision of the Assam High Court a forementioned does show that 
the Hon ble Judges who decided that case were also of the view that the word 
Khasi tribe or for the matter of that in this particular case Munda Trihe has 
not to be given that narrow and restricted scope and the question whether a 
particular person is a member of the tribe or not is a question of fact which has 
to be decided on the totality of the circumstances . I may in this connection 
again refer here to the Constitution Scheduled Tribes Order , 1950 promulgated 
in 1950 by the President of India which I have already quoted in the earlier 
part of my judgment. In paragraph 2 of this Order the important words to 
be quoted are 
" The tribes or tribal communities , or parts of or groups within tribes 

or tribal communities , speficled in Parts I to XII to the Schedule . . . . " 
In Article 342 of the Constitution the exact words used are " the tribes or 
tribal communities or parts of or groups within tribes or tribal communities , 
No definition or the word tribal has been given either in the Order or in the 


4252 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 (PART II — 
- - - 

= = = :: SS = = 
Constitution and I think the Parliament in its wisdom has rightly used these 
words and not only tribes . The words which have been clearly show that a 
wide import and meaning have to be given to these words. There was also a 
contention that by declaration of any person other than who has been born a 
Munda as a member of the tribe would be a violation of the safeguard for the 
rescrvation of a seat as given under Article 330 of llie Constitution , but do 
not think that this contention seems to be correct . The question which has to 
be decided is whether a particular person is a member of the particular Scheduled 
Castes / Scheduled Tribe or not and if he or she is then naturally his or her candi 
dature will be advancement of the objcctive given in Article 330 of the Consti 
tution . 

49. On a survey of the entire eyidence and the circumstances of the case , I 
see no reason to discredit the evidence which has been led on behalf of the poli 
tioner firstly that she was married according to the Munda custom and that it 
was with approval and sanction of the tribe whereby she was accepted as a mem 
ber of the Munda Tribe. True, it is that she cannot claim to be a men bei uf 
the Munda Tribe by virtue of birth , but as she has been accepted as a member 
of the Munda Tribe on account of her marriage in such forin , naturally it follows 
that by legal fiction such as the domicile of the husband by cperation of law 
in some cases governs the domicile of the wife , so on this analogy the tribe 
to which the husband belongs would be the tribe to which she would be deemed 
to belong provided the marriage was after due observance of formalities and 
after optainin the sanction of the elders of the tribe as was done in this case. 

50 . The Returning Officer . & pointed above; rejected the nomination papers 
for the ground of what I have stated above. But it may be mentioned that 
naturally the eyidence which has been led and the materials which have been 
placed on record were certainly not available to the Returning Officer and as such 
he gave decision on the materials which were available to him . Learned counsel 
for the petitioner has also attacked the order of the Returning Officer on two 
grounds. Firstly , that it was in excess of the powers conferred on him under 
section 36 of the Act. Section 33 of the Act lays down that the nomination papers 
should be filed within the prescribed time. Sub - section ( 2 ) of this Section lys 
down that in a Constituency where any seat is reserved . a candidate shall not 
be deemed to be qualified to be chosen to fill that seat unless his nomination 
paper contained a declaration by him specifying the particular caste or tribe of 
which he is a member and the area in relation to which that caste or tribe is 
a Scheduled Caste or , as the case may be , a Schedulcd Tribe of the State . I 
have already pointed above that a declaration as contemplated by this aforesaid 
provision had also been filed along with the nomination paper. It has been 
urged by the learned counsel for the petitioner that as there was a declaration 
by the petitioner , so that declaration should have been accepted and the Return 
ing Officer acted in excess or beyond his n . ,War in oing into the question 
whether the petitioner was a member of the Munda Tribe or not . In my opinion , 
this contention is not wholly correct in view of the further faots which I will be 
presently stating. 

51 . I may now refer here to Section 36 of the Act which empowers the Return 
ing Officer to scrutinize the nomination papers . Sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 36 
of the Act and its clauses are relevant for the purpose of the matter in con 
sideration at this stage and it runs thus 
" 30 ( 2 ) The returning omcer shall then examine the nomination papers and 

shall decide all objections which may be made to any nomination 
ay may , other on such obiection or on his own motion , after such 
summary inquiry, if any , as he thinks necessary , reject any nomina 

tion on any of the following grounds : 
( a ) that on the fixed for the scrutiny of nominations the candidate 

either is not qualified or is disqualified for being chosen to All the 
seat under any of the following provisions that may be applicable , 

namely : -- 
Articles 84 , 102 , 173 and 101, 

Part II of this Act , and sections 4 Ard 14 of the Governnient of Ur - 07 

Territories Act, 1963 or 20 of 1963. 
(b ) that there has been a failure to comply with any of the provisions of 

section 33 or section 34 ; or 
( c ) that the signature of the candidate or the proposer on the nomina 

- paper is nci fengine," 
The aforesaid provision enjoins tipon the Returning Omeer that he skall 
examine the nomination papers and decide all objections which may be 


Sec . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 50, ! 8924253 


made to any nomination . It further empowers him that he may either on such 
objection or on his own motion , after such summary inquiry , if any , as he thinks 
necessary, reject any nomination paper C2 on vi the icllowing grounus mentioned 
in that sub - section . Tlie Returns Oifier Carl embarn on * summary inquiry and 
I think that the latter pari ca sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 36 of the Act particularly 
by the use of the word may there gives a discretion to the Returning Officer to 
hold a summary inquiry . This opinion of mine finds Also strength from the words 
" as he thinks necessary . The inyuíly has also to be di a very summary nature 
bonus ? proviso to sut -scation ( 5 ) of Stctiun) - Jays down that in case an objec 
tion i : raised by the returning oicer el is made by any other person the valididate 
concerned may be allowe ? tine to rebut it not later than the next clay but one 
following the date fixed for scoutiny , and the returning officer sliall record his de 
c sion on the date to which the proceedlings have been adjourned . This clearly 
shows that the adjournment giving an opportunity for adducing rebuttal evidence 
can only be to ihe next day and not furher. These provisions are naturally very 
essential be . Se ihe entire alceti ) programme has to be carried on according to 
the schedule . It has kice ) ronto : ded by the learned counsel for the petitioner that no 
inquiry was made by the Raturning Ollicer and that he did not give any coportunlly 
to the petitioner to adduce evidence . I may refer here in this connection to the 
evidence of the Returning Officer , who was examined es RW . 1, and also to his or 
CP which is till annexure to the petition . Á peruşal of his evidence as well as his 
order shows that he did hent hoth the parties so much so that the petitioner was 
also represenied through a counsel, but as no power was made for time for accuc 
ise ovidence , so on the materials on record before him the Returning Ollicr 
his decision which was adverse io the petitioner be callse he rejected the nominalica 
paper. I see no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the Returning Omcer , who is 

a responsible officer of the Governmert and particilarly when reading his order it 
A nors that nobody had asked for time, I gm . theref nre , of the view that at that 
no prayer had been made for time for adducing further evidence . 

52 . It has also been urged on behalf of the petitioner that the rejection of the 
nomination paper could only be under one of the grounds, as mentioned in clauses 
( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 36 oť the Act, already quoted above 
and as none of these grounds apply , so the Returning CA cer scied beyond his 
powers in rejecting the nomination paper . Clause ( a ) lays down that a ncmination 
paper would be rejected if the person concerned , who has filed a nomination paper 
is ither not qualified or disqualified under Article 84 , 102 , 173 and 191 of the 
Constitution . I need not refer to the specific provisions of these Articles because 
admittedly these Articles did not apply and the rejection has not been on any of 
these grounds, but the latter part of clause ( a ) is also very important because it 
lays down " Part II of the Act , and sections 4 and 14 of the Government of Union 
Territories Act, 1963" . We are not concerned here with the Government of Union 
Territories Act , 1903, but certainly Part II of the Art would be applicable . Part 
Il of the Act , that is from section 3 onwards deals with 1. lifications and disquall 
fications for membership of Parliament and section 5 onwards order the same Part 
deals with the qualifications for membership of State Legislatures . Section 4 is 
very important for the purpose of the matter under consideration because it lays 
down that a person shall not be qualified to be chosen to All a seat in the House of 
the People other than the seat allotted to the Part B of tribal areas and clause ( b ) 
of this section lays down that in the case of a seat reserved for tht Scheduled Tribes 
in any State other than those in the autonomous riistricts of Assam , he shall not be 
qualified unless he is a member of any of Scheduled Tribes, whether of that State 
or of 2.77 other State cxcluding the tribal areas of Assain , and is an elector for 
any Parliamentary constituency . 


53. Now reading clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 36 along with clause 
( b ) of Section 4 of the Act, in my opinion , although there may be a declaration 
filed by the person filing the nomination paper , but still it there is some contro 
versy raised , then it will be within the competence of the Returning Omcer to see 
whether there was a compliance of clause ( b ) of Section 4 of the Act . In this view 
of the matter , I am of opinion , that the Returning Omcer quite rightly entered into 

consiceration of the question whether the petitioner was a member of the 
Munde Tribe specially when objections had been raised , the position 
also Was not clear hecause it was not a case whether the petitioner claimed 
to be a member of the Trlhe by virtue of birth , but by virtue of marriage . Now 
as far as clause ( b ) and ( c ) of sub - section 2 of section 36 of the Act are concerned 
these also are not relevant for the purpose of the matter under consideration . In 
this view of the matter , I am of opinion that the Peturning Officer, did not act in 
excess of his power and he had the jurisdiction to go into the limited question 
whether the candidate was qualified under clause ( b ) of Section 4 of the Act . 


4254 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PART II — 


-- 


- - 


. . 


54 . The third and last point in this connection wi. ch has bec. ulged is that even 
if the Returning Officer had such a jurisdiction , then such power conferred on 
him was violative of Article 14, 372 and 330 of the Constitution . The argument in 
this respect is that a rejection of a nomination paper on the ground that a part 
icular candidate was or was not a member of a Scheduled Triba would mean that 
there was a decision on the question of a candidate s civil right, status , such as , 
right of inheritance etc., and , therefore, it would not be only violative of some of 
the Articles of the Constitution , but violative of the cmmon law , such as, the 
rights contained in other acts and the Code of Civil Procedure . In my opinion , 
this contention does not seem to be correct because when the Returning Officer 
examines or decides the question whether a candidate is a member of a Scheduled 
Tribe or not, the jurisdiction exercised by him is for a very strict and limited 
purpose and this would not mean that he was deciding the question that the part 
icular candidate had the right of inheritance , right of property etc . 

55 . On a consideration of all these facts , I am of opinion that thc order of the 
Returning Officer was not without jurisdiction or in excess of power conferred on 
him under section 36 of the Act and it would be deemed to be only for the limited 
purpose aş mentioned above. I may also mention here that when such a question 
arises for consideration in an election case , such as, the present one, the decision 
by a tribunal would be also for the limited purpose and it would not mean con 
ferring towers of inheritance etc , because that has to be decided by the other 
competent courts of the country. I have alrendy observed above that the decision 
of the Returning Officer was obviously on the materials placed before him and as 
the materials which have been placed here had not been placed before the Return 
ing Officer , so he could not come to this conclusion but only to the conclusion 
which he gave in his detailed order . Now in view of the facts and the circums 
tances of the case herc, it has to be held that the order of rejection of the nomina 
tion papers filed by the petitioner was improper. All thesc issues are , therefore, 
decided accordingly . 

56 . Issue No. 7. — Now the last question which arises for consideration is as to 
what relieſ the petitioner is entitled , I have already mentioned above that there 
has been a dissolution of the Lok Sabha , so the petitioner can be entitled only to a 
limited relief which is to the effect that her nomination papers had been improper 
ly rejected. This issue also thus is decided accordingly . 

57. In the result , the election petition is allowed on the lines as indicated above . 
In the circumstances of the case , no order for costs is made, 

( Sd .) S. WASIUDDIN 
Patna High Court ; 
The 21st of May , 1971. 

( Sd .) Deputy Registrar, 

Patna High Court. 
[No. 82 /BR / 2 / 70 ) 

By Order, 
ROSHAN LAL , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF STEEL AND MINES 

(Department of Mines ) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
S . O . 3082, Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in 
the late Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Depart 
ment of Mines and Metals ) No. S . O . 2401 dated 4th July , 1970, under Sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 4 of the Coal Bcaring Areas ( Acquisition & Development) Act, 
1957 ( 20 of 1957 ), the Central Government gave notice of its intention to pros 
pect for coal in 300 .00 acres ( approximately ) or 129,60 hectares ( approximately ) 
of the lands in the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification : 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
the said lands ; 


Sec . 3( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA O , 1693 15 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of 
section 7 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 
( 20 of 1957 ) , the Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to 
acquire: 
( a ) the lands measuring 10 . 00 acres ( approximately ) or 4 . 05 hectares 

( approximately ) described in Schedule A appended hereto and 
( b ) the rights of mine, quarry , bore, dig and search for , win , work and 

carry away minerals in the lands measuring 310 .00 acres ( approxi 
mately ) or 125 .55 hectares ( approximately ) described in Schedule 

B appended hereto . 
NOTE 1. The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected 
in the office of the Collector, Dhenkanal, Orissa or in the office of the Coal Con 
troller , 1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the office of the National Coal 
Development Corporation Limited (Revenue Section ), Darbhanga House , Ranchi, 
Bihar , 

NOTE 2 . Attention is hereby invited to the provisions in Section 8 of the 
Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1967 , which provides 
as follows: - - 
" 8 ( 1 ) Any person interested in any land in respect of which a notification 

under section 7 has been issued may , within thirty days of the issue 
of the notification , object to the acquisition of the whole or any 

part of the land or of any rights in or over such land . 
Explanation : It shall not be an objection within the meaning of this section 
for any person to say that he himself desires to undertake mining operations in 
the land for the production of coal and that such operations should not be under 
taken by the Central Government or by any other person :--- 
( 2 ) Every objection under sub - section ( 1 ) shall be made to the competent 

authority in writing, and the competent authority shall give the 
objector an opportunity of being heard either in person or by a 
legal practitioner and shall, after hearing all such objections and 
after making such further enquiry . if any, as he thinks necessary , 
submit the case for the decision of the Central Government together 
with the record of the proceedings held by him and a report con 

taining his recommendations on the objections, 
( 3 ) For the purposes of this section , a person shall be deemed to be 

interested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in 
compensation if the land or any rights in or over such land were 

acquired under this Act.” 
NOTE 3. The Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta, has been 
appointed by the Central Government as the competent authority under the Act. 

SCHEDULB ‘A ’ 


Do: lbera Past- - Extn. Drg. No. Rev 37 /71, Dated 17 -5- 1971. 

Ta!cher Coalfields (Orissa ) (Showing lands to be acquired ). 

SUB - BLOCK I 


All rights 


Village 


District 


Thana or Police 

Station 


Area 


Serial 
number 


Remarks 


Chauliakuta 


. 


. 


. 


Talcher ( Town ) Dhenkanal 
Sudar , 


Part 


2 Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ) 


, 


Total Area :- 

or - 


10 . 00 Acres (Approximately ) 
4 .05 Heclares ( Approximately ). 


4256 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21. 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Plot nuorter to be acquired in village Chauliakula : 

44 (P ), 45(P ), 46 ( P ), 47 (P ), 54 (P ), & Road (P ). 
Plotnumbers to he acquired in village Nizigarh ( 7 alcher Town ) 

(1 , 2 & 3 Road (Part ), 69(P ), 71 (P ), 72(P ), 73 (P ), 75 ( P ), 76 (P ), 77 ( P ), 79 (P ), 80 (P ), 82( P ) , 

1425 ( P ), 1426 (P ), 1427 (P ) . 
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 
E - F - G - H - Lines pass through plot number : Road of Chauliakuta , ( 1 , 2 & 3 Road), 71, 69 

72, 73 , 75 , 76 , 77 , 82 , 79 , 80 , 1427 in Village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town) and meet 

at point H . 
H – I Linc passes through plotnumbers 1427, 1426 and 1425 in village Nizigarh ( Talcher 

Town ) and meets at point I . 
I - J 

Line passes along the southern bound ry of plot numbers 1425 , 82 , 77 , along 
southern boundary and through plot No . 76 , through plot numbers 75, 73 , 72 
( 1 , 2 & 3 Road ), in village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ) and through plot numbers 

46 , 47 and 54 in village Chąuliakute and meets at point J . 
J - E 

Line passes through plot numbers 54 , 47 , 44 & 45 (i.e . along the part common 
boundary of Deulbera Colliery lease boundary ) in village Chauliakuta and meets 
at Point E . 

SCHEDULE B 
SUB -BLOCK II 


Drg . No . Rev / 37 /71 Dated 17 - 5 -71. 


( Showing lands where rights to mine , quarry , 
bore , dig and scarch for , win , work and carry 
away minerals are to be acquired ). 


Mining rights 


Village 


Serial 
number 


Area 


District 


Remarks 


Thana or Police 

Station . 


. 


Part. 


Talcher ( Town) Dhenkanal 
Sadar . 


I Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ) 
2 Chauliakuta 
3 Nizigarhjamme , 
4 Remua . 


Total arca : 

or : 


310 . 00 Acres (Approximately ) 
125 . 55 Hectares (Approximately ) 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Chauliakuta : 

46( P ), 47 (P ),65(1 ), 69 (P ), 70 (P ) & 71 to 76 . 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nisigarhjamme: 

95 ( P ), 96 (P ), 99 (P ), 100 , 101, 102(P ), 103 (P ), 104 ( P ), 105 to 113 , 114 (P ), 115 tº 123 , 124 ( P ) , 
170 ( P ), 171, 172 , 173( P ), 174 (P ) nd 175 ( P ). 
Plotnumbers to be acquired in village Remua : 

297 ( P ), 298 (P ), 300 ( P ), 301 (P ), 302 , 303, 304( P ), 305 , 306 (P ), 307( P ) , & 308 (P ). 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town): 

( 1, 2 and 3 , i oed (P ), 57 ( P ), 59 (1 ),60( P ), 61(P ), 162 , 63, 64 (P ), 65, 66 , 67, 68, 69 ( P ), 70 
71 (P ), 72 ( P ), 73 ( P ), 74 , 75 ( P ), 76 (P ), 77 ( P ), 78 , 9 ( P ), 80 ( P ), 81, 82 ( P ), 83 to 117 , 118 (P ) 
119 to 126 , 127 ( P ), 128 (P ), 129 ( 1 ), 130 ( P ) , 131 to 364 , 365 ( P ), 366 ( P ), 367 to 415 , 416 ( P ) 
417 ( P ) , 418 ( P ), 419 ( P ), 420 ( D ) , 421( P ) , 422 ( P ), 423 ( P ), 424, 425 , 426 ( P ), 427( P ), 428 (P ) 
429( P ), 430 ( P ), 456 (P ), 457 (P ), 463 (P ), 468 (P ), 477 (P ), 473 (P ) , 47 ; (P ), 478 (P ), 482 ( P ), 483( P ) , 
484 (P ), 487 (P ), 488 , 489 , 490 , 491, 452 , 493 , 454 ( P ) , 495 (P ), 496 , 497 , 498 , 499 , 500 ( P ), 501 ( P ) 
502 , 503 , 504 , 505 , 506 , 507(P ), 308 to 552 , 553 (P ), 554 ( P ), 555 , 556 , 557 , 558 , 559 ( P ) 


Suc. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4257 

= - = = = - - 
562( P ), 563 , 564, 565 ( P ), 10( P ), 571, 573 ( P ) , 575 (P ), 576 , 577 ( P ) , 582 (P ), 821( P ) 822 ( P ), 823 
to 828 , 829( P ), 830 ( P ) , 831 ( P ), 832, 833 , 834 ( P ), 835 (P ), 836 , 837, 838 (P ), 840 ( P ), 1060 ( P ), 1061 ( P ) , 
1062 (P ), 1071( P ) , 1073 ( P ) , 1074 (1 ), 1075 (P ), 1076 , 1077 (P ), 1078 to 1103, 1104 ( P ) 1105 , 1106 ( P ), 
1109 ( P ), IITO ( P ), IJ13 (P ), 1114 (P ), 1115 ( P ) , 1116 (P ), 1126 ( P ), 1127 ( P ), 1192( P ), 1193 ( P ) , 1194 ( P ) , 
1195 , 1196 ( P ), 1204 ( P ), 1209 ( P ), 1210 ( P ), 1211 ( P ), 1218 ( P ), 1219 to 1226 , 1227( P ), 1228 ( P ) , 
1229 ( P ) , 1230 (P ) , 1231 ( P ), 1232 ( P ), 1233 ( P ), 1243 ( P ), 1244 ( P ), 1246 ( P ) , 1248 ( P ), 125I( P ), 1252 ( P ) , 
1255 ( P ) , 1256 ( P ), 1259 ( P ), 1200( P ), 1263 (P ), 1264 ( P ), 1267 ( P ), 1268 ( P ), 1271 (1 ) , 1272 ( P ), 1275 (P ), 
1276 ( P ), 1279 ( P ) 1281( P ), 1282, 1283 ( P ), 1284 to 1424 , 1425( P ), 1426 (P ), 1427 ( P ), 1428 to 1483 , 
1484 ( P ) , 1485 to 149 " , 1491 (P ), 1492 ( P ), 1494 (P ), 1496 ( P ), 1497 ( P ), 1498 ( P ), 1499, 1500 , IGOIP ) . 
1502( P ), 1503 to 1518 , 1519 ( P ), 1520 ( P ), 1521( P ), 1522 (P ), 1523 (P ), 1524 (P ), 1525( P ), 1546 ( ) , 
1981( P ), 1982 ( P ), 1983 ( 1 ), 1987 ( P ), 1990( P ), 1991( P ), 1992 to 2000 , 2001 (P ), 2002 ( P ), 2003 (P ) 
2006 (P ), 2011 ( P ), 2012 / P ) , 2013 ( P ) 2014 (P ), 2015 ( P ), 2016 (P ), 2037 (P ), 2046 (P ), 2047 (P ), 2048 ( ?. 
2049 (P ), 2050 ( P ), 2051 to 2081, 2082 ( 0 ) , 2083 (P ), 2084CP ), 2085 to 2254 , 2255 ( P ), 2256 ( P ) , 
2287 ( P ), 2288 ( P ), 2289 ( P ), 2290 ( P ) 2291( P ), 2292 ( P ) , 2293 ( P ), 2296 ( P ), 2297 ( P ), 2298 ( P ), 2402CP ) , 
2403 ( P ), 2404 ( P ) , 2405 (P ) , 2406 ( P ), 2455 ( P ), 2457 (P ) , 2498, 2459 ( P ), 2460 ( P ), 2461 to 2466 , 2467 (P ) , 
2468 ( P ), 246 ( P ) , 2473 (P ), 2474 ( P ), 2479 ( P ), 2480 ( P ), 2481( P ), 2482( P ), 2483 , 2384 , 2483( P ), 
2486 ( P ) , 2487 to 2498 , 2499 ( P ), 2500 ( P ), 2501 (P ),2502 to 3084 , 3085 (P ), 3086 , 3087 , 3088 , 3009( E ), 
3091( P ) , 3092 to 3095, 3096 ( P ), 3097 (P ), 3098 to3111, 3112 (P ), 3114 (P ), 3115 ( P ) , 3116 (P , 3117 , 
3118 , 3119 (P ), 3120 ( P ), 3121 (P ), 3122 (P ), 3123 (P ), 3129 ( P ) , 3130 ( P ), 3182 , 3183. 3184 ( P ), 3109? 
3186 , 3187 , 3188 , 3189 , 3190 , 3191 , 3200, 3201, 3206 , 1107, 3208 , 3209 , 3210 , 3211 , 3212 , 3214 
3215 , 3216 , 3218 ( P ), 3219 , 3220 , 3221, 3224 , 3227 , 3228 , 3229 , 3231 c nd 3232 . 
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION 
A - D 

Line pasacs through plot numbers 57 , 1525, 1524, 1523 , 1522 , 1946 , 1521, 1520 , 
1519, 1502 , 1501 , 1498 , 1497 , 1494 , 1496 , 1491, 1492 , 1491, 1484) , 2084 , 
2083 , 2082 , 2046 , 2047 , 2048 , 2049 , 2050 , 2037 , 2014 & 2016 in village Nizigarh 

( Talcher Town ) and meets at point D . 
D - C 

Line passes through plot number , 2016 , 2013 , 2014 , 2013 , 2012 , 2011, 2006 , 2003, 
2001, 2002, 2001, 1991, 1990 , 1987, 1983 , 1982 , 1981, 2255 , 2256 , 2486 
2485, 2289 , 2287 , 2288, 2290 , 2291, 2292 , 2293, 2296 , 2297 , 2298 , & 2402 in villag 

Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ) and meets at point C . 
C - B 

Line passes through plot numbers 2402, 2403 , 2404, 2405 , 2406 , 2482 , 2481 , 
2482 , 2479 , 2480 , 2499 , 2500 , 2501, 2474 , 2473 , 2467, 2468, 2469, 2460 , 2455 : 
2459 , 2457, 3130 , 3129, 3089 , 3085, 3091 , 3096 , 3122 , 3123 , 3122 , 3121 , 3120 
3119 , 3121 , 3116 , 3115 , 3112 , IC60 . 3114 , 3097, 1061, 1062 , 1077 , 1073 , 1075 , 1074 
1071, 1106 , 1109 , 1104 , 1110 , 1113 , 1114 , 1115 , 116 , 1126 , 1127, 1283, 1194 
1192, 1193, 1196 , 1204, 1209, 1210 , 1211, 1218 , 1233, 1232 , 1231, 1230 , 1229 
1228, 1227, 1243 , 1244, 1246 , 1248, 1251 , 1252 , 1255 , 1256 , 1259, 1260, 1263 
3218 , 1264 , 1267, 1268, 1271 , 1272 , 1275 , 1276 , 1279 , 1281, 840 , 838 , 835, 834 
831, 830 , 829, 822, 821, 365 , 366 , 427, 426 , 423, 422, 421, 420 , 419 , 418 , 417, 
416 , 428 , 429 , 430 , 456 , 457 , 463 , 408 , 472 , 473 , 477, 478, 483 , 482, 484 , 487, 494 , 
495 , 500 , 501, 507, 553, 554, 582, 577 , 575, 573, 570 , 565, 562, 559 , 130 , 129, 128, 
127 , 3184 , 118 in village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ), through plot numbers 308 , 
304, 306 , 307 , 306 , 300 , 301, 298 , 297 , in village Remua , through plot number 

175 in village Nizigashjamic and meets at point B . 
B 

Linc pasacs through plotnumbers 175 , 174 , 173 , 170 , 124 , 114 , 104, 103, 102, 99 , 
96 , 95 , in village Nizigarhajamme, through plot numbers 69, 70 , 65, 54 in village, 
Chauliakuta (i.e . along the part common boundary of Deulbera Colliery Lease , 

boundary ) and nects at point ‘ J . 
JI 

Line passes through plot numbers 54 , 47, 46 , & Road in village Chaulikuta , 
through plot numbers ( 1, 2 & 3 Road ), 72 , 73 , 75, through and along southern 
boundary of plot number 76 , along the southern boundary of plot numbers 77 , 82 , 

& 1425 in village Nizigarh ( Talcher Town ) and meets at point I . 
I - H 

Line passes through plot numbers 1425 , 1426 and 1427 in village Nizigarh ( Talcher 

Town ) and incets at point H . 
H - G - F - E Lines pass through plot numbers 1427 , 80 ,79 , 82 , 77 , 76 , 75 , 73 , 72 , 69 , 71 ( 1,2 & 3 

Road ) in village Nizigarh ( Tacher Town ) and through Road of village Chaulia 

kuta and meets at point E , 
E - A 

Line passes through plot numbers Road of village Chauliakuta , through plot 
numbers ( 1, 2 & 3 Road ), 60, 64, 60 ,61, 60 , 59 and 57 in village Nizigarh ( Talcher 
Town ), (i. e, along the part common boundary of Deulbera Colliery Icase boun 
dary ) and meets at point A . 

[No. F . C3-2 (4 ) 70.] 
K . SUBRAHMANYAN , Under Secy . 


4258 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART I[ -- 


इस्पात तथा खान मंत्रालय 

( इस्पात विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 9 जुलाई , 1971 
का० प्रा० 3032 :---- यतः कोयला घाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 
1957 ( 1957 का 20 ) की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व 
पेट्रोलियम और रसायन तथा खान तय धातु मंत्रालय ( खान और धातु विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० का० प्रा० 2401 तारीख 4 जलाई , 1970 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से उपाबद्ध 
अनुसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट परिक्षेत्र में 300 , 00 एकड़ ( लगभग ) या 129 . 60 हेक्टेयर ( लगभग ) 
भूमि में कोयले के लिये पूर्वेक्षण करने के अपने प्राशय की सूचना दी थी । 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार का समाधान हो गया है कि उका भूमि में कोयला उपलब्ध 


अतः अब कोयला वाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन पौर विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 ( 1957 का 20 ) 
की धारा 7 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
निम्नलिखित को अर्जित करने के अपने प्राशय की सूचना देती है :-- - 
( क ) इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची " क " में वर्णित 10. 00 एकड़ ( लगभग ) या 4 . 05 हेक्टेयर 

( लगभग ) परिमाप की भूमि ; और 
( ख ) इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची ( ख ) में वणित 310 . 00 एकड़ ( लगभग ) या 125 . 55 

( लगभग ) परिमाप की भूमियों में खनिजों के खनन , खदान क्रिया , बोर करने , 
खोदने के लिये और उनकी तलाश करने , उन्हें प्राप्त करने , कार्य करने और ले 
जाने के अधिकार । 


दिप्पण - 1 

इस अधिसूचना के अन्तर्गत आने वाले क्षेत्र के रेखांकों का निरीक्षण कलक्टर , धेनकनाल , उड़ीसा 
के कार्यालय में या कोयला नियंत्रक , 1, काउन्सिल हाउस स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता के कार्यालय में या राष्ट्रीय 
कोयला विकास निगम लिमिटेड ( राजस्व अनुभाग ) , दरभंगा हाउस, रांची, बिहार के कार्यालय में किया 
जा सकता है । 

टिप्पण - - 2 

एतवद्वारा कोयला वाले क्षेत्र ( अर्जन और विकास ) अधिनियम , 1957 की धारा 8 के 
उपवन्धों की ओर ध्यान आकर्षित किया जाता है जिसमें निम्नलिखित उपबन्ध हैं : ---- 

" 8 ( 1 ) किसी ऐसी भूमि में , जिसके बारे में धारा 7 के अधीन अधिसूचना जारी की गई 
है, हितबद्ध कोई व्यकिा अधिसूचना के जारी कि जातीस दिन के भीतर सम्पूर्ण भूमि या उसके 
किसी भाग के या ऐम भन में या उस पर किन्हीं क ों के अर्जन पर प्राक्षेप वर सगा । 


स्पष्टीकरण : 

किसी व्यक्ति का यह कहना कि वह स्वयं कोयले के उत्पादन के लिये भूमि में खनन संक्रियाएं 
प्रारम्भ करना चाहता है और यह कि ऐसी संक्रियाएं कद्रीय सरकार द्वारा या किसी अन्य भक्ति 
द्वारा प्रारम्भ नहीं की जानी चाहिये , इस धारा के अन्तर्गत आक्षेप नहीं होगा । 

( 2 ) उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन प्रत्येक आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी को लिखित रूप में किया 
जायेगा और सक्षम प्राधिकारी प्राक्षेपकर्ता को स्वयं या विधि व्यवसायी द्वारा सुनवाई का अवसर 


SEC . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4259 


. 


. 


देगा और ऐसे सब प्राक्षेपों को सुनने के पश्चात् और ऐती अतिरिक्त जांच, यदि कोई हो , कसले के 
पश्चात् , जो वह आवश्यक समझ, मामले को अपने द्वारा की गई कार्यवाहियों के अभिलेख और आक्षेपो 
पर अपनो सिफारिशों वाली एक रिपोर्ट के साथ , केन्द्रीय सरकार के विनिश्चय के लिये भेजेगा । 

( 3 ) इम धाग के प्रयोजनों लिये वह व्यकिन भूमि में हितबद्ध समझा जाएगा जो यदि 
इस अधिनियम के अधीन वह भूमि या रेसो भमि में या उस पर कोई अधिकार अजित किये जाये 
तो , पनिकर में हित का दावा करने का हकदार होगा । 

विपण -- - 3 

कोयला त्रिक , 1, काउन्सिल हाउस स्ट्रीट , कलकत्ता - 1 को केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा अधिनियम 
के अधीन समाधिकारी के रूप में नियुक्त किया गया है । 

अनुसूची "क " 

ड्राइग सं० राजस्व / 37 / 71 
इल रेडा पूर्व-विस्तार 

नारीख 17 मई , 1971 


तलछड़ कोयना क्षत्र ( उड़ीसा ) 


( अजित की जाने वाली भूमियों 
वशित करने वाली ) 


उपस 3 - 1 


"सभी अधिकार " 


- 


- 


क्रम ग्राम संख्या 


थाना प्रयवा पुलिस 

स्टेशन 


जिला 


क्षेत्र 


टिप्पणियां 


धेनकनाल 


भाग 


1. चौलियाकुटा तालचर ( उपनगर ) 

सादर 
2. निजीगढ़ 

( तालचर उपनगर ) 


कुल क्षेत्र 10 . 00 एकड़ ( लगभग ) 

या 4 . 5 हैक्टयर ( लगभग ) 
चोलियाकाट ग्राम म प्रजित किये जाने वाले लनों की संख्या : 
1 1 ( पी ), 45 ( पी ) , 46 ( पी ), 47 ( पी ) , 54 ( पी ) और ( पी ) 1 
नं जीगढ़ ग्राम ( तलछड़ जिला ) अनिधिये जाने वाले सड़क प्लाटों की संख्या 

( 1, 2 और 3 सड़क ( भाग ), 60( ) , 71 ( पी ), 72 ( पी ), 73 ( पी ) , 75 ( पी ), 76 
( पी ) , 77 ( पी ) , 79 ( पी ) , 80 ( पी ) , 82 ( पी ) । 1426 ( पी ), 1426 ( पी ), 1427 ( पी ) । 


सीमा वर्णन : 
- च - ज लाइने ग्राम निजिगढ़ ( तालचर उपनगर ) में चौलियाकूटा की सड़क ( सड़क 1, 2 , 

और 3) , 1 प्लाट संख्यांक 71 , 69, 72, 73, 75, 76, 77 , 82, 79, 80 , 
1427 से गुजरती है और बिन्दु ज पर मिलती है । 


4260 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II 


ज - स लाइन लिजिगढ़ ( जालनर उपनगर ) : काट संग्ख्याक 142 -, 1426 मोर !425 

से गुजरती है और बिन्दु झ पर मिलती है । 
श - अलाइन ग्राम निजिगढ़ ( तासंचड उपनगर ) के प्लाट संख्याक 1425 , 82, 77 की दक्षिणी 

मोमा के साथ होकर प्लाट संख्या 75 से होकर दक्षिणी सीमा के साथ प्लाट संख्याक 
75, 73, 72 ( सड़क 1 , 2, 3 ) और ग्राम चोलियाकटा के प्लाट 46, 47 और 54 

से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु के उपर मिलती है । 
अ - लाइन ग्राम चोलियाकूटा में प्लाट संन्याक 54, 47, 44 और 45 ( अर्थात् ड्यूलबेड़ा 

कोयला खान पट्टा सीमा को भागतः सामान्य सीमा के साथ ) से होकर गुजरती है 
और “ उ ” बिन्दु पर मिलती है । 
अनुसूची ख 

ड्राइंग मं० राजस्व / 37/ 71 
उपस 2 

तारीख 17 - 5 - 71 


( वे भूमियां दर्शित करने वाली 
जहां खनिजों के खनन , खदान 
क्रिया , बोर करने , खोदने , 
उनकी तलाश करने , उन्हें 
प्राप्त करने , कार्य करने और 
से जाने के लिये अधिकार 
अजित किये जाने हैं ) 


" खनन अधिकार " 


ग्राम 


जिला 


क्षेत्र 


टिप्पणियां 


क्रप 
संग्या 


थाना और पुलिस 

स्टेशन 


- 


- 


भाग 


तालचर ( उपनगर ) घीनकानाल 
सदर 


1. निर्जीगढ़ ( तालचर 

उपनगर ) 
2. चौलियाकुटा 
3. निजीगढ़जामी 
4 . रीमुया 


- - -- - 


कुल क्षेत्र 310 . 00 एकर ( लगभग ) 
जया 125 . 55 हेक्टेयर लगभग 


वालिया कूटा ग्राम में अजित किये जाने वालों की संस्था 
46 ( पी ), 47 ( पी ) , 65 ( पी ), 69 ( पी ), 70 ( पी ) और 71 से 76 तक । 
मोजी गढ़ ग्राम में प्रति किये जाने वाले प्लाटों की संख्या 

95 ( पी ) , 96 ( पी ) , 99 ( पी ) , 100, 101, 102 ( पी ), 103 ( पी ), 104 ( पी ) , 
105 से 113 तक , 114 ( पी ) , 115 से 123 तक , 124 ( पी ), 170 ( पी ) , 171, 
173 ( पी ) , 174 ( पी ) और 175 ( पी ) । 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA : 0, 1893 426r 


- . . - 


- 


- . .. . - 


- 


- 


- . - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


रेयानाम से अजित की जाने वाले प्लाटों की संरया :- -- 

297 ( पी ), 298 ( पो ), 300 ( पी ), 301 ( पी ), 302, 303 , 304 ( पी ). 505, 
35( पी ) , 307 ( पी ) ओर 308 ( पी ) । 

नोझीगढ़ ग्राम ( तलपर उपनगर ) में प्रजित किये जाने प्लाटों की संख्या:- - 

सड़क 1, 2 और 3 ( पी ), 57 ( पी ), 50 ( पी ), 60 ( पी ), 61 ( पी ), 62, GS, G4( पी ) , 
65, 66, 67 , 68, 69 ( पी ) , 70, 71 ( पी ), 72 ( पी ) , 73 ( पी ) , 74, 75 ( पी ), 76 ( पी ) , 
77 ( पी ) , 78, 79 ( पी ) , 80 ( पी ) , 81, 82 ( पी ) , 83 से 117 तक, 118 ( पी ), 119 से 
1 26, तक 127 ( पी ), 128 ( पी ) , 129 ( पी ), 130 ( पी ) , 131 से 364तक, 365 ( पी ) , 
366, ( पी ) , 367 से 415 तक , 416 ( पी ), 417 ( पी ), 418 ( पी ) , 419 ( पी ) , 420 ( पी ) , 
421 ( पी ) , 422 ( पी ) , 423 ( पी ), 424, 425, 426 ( पी ) , 427 ( पी ) , 428 ( पी ) 429, 
( पी ), 430 ( पी ) , 456 ( 1 ), 457 ( पी ), 463 ( पी ), 468 ( पी ) , 472 ( पी ), 473 ( पी ) , 
477 ( पी ) , 478 ( पी ), 482 ( पी ), 483 ( पी ), 484 ( पी ), 487 ( पी ), 488, 489, 
490 , 491, 492 , 493 , 494 ( पी ) , 495 ( पी ) , 496 , 497, 498, 499 , 500 ( पी ), 501 
( पी ), 502 , 5 03, 504, 505, 506, 507( पी ) , 508 से 55 2 तक , 55 3 ( पी ),554 ( पी ) , 
555, 556, 557 , 558, 559 ( पी ) , 562 ( पी ), 563, 564, 56 5 ( पी ) , 570 ( पी ) , 
571, 573 ( पी ) , 575 ( पी ) , 576, 577 ( पी ), 582 ( पी ), 321( पी ), 822 ( पी ), 823: 
से 828 तक , 829 ( पी ) , 830 ( पी ) , 831 ( पी ) , 832, 833, 834 ( पी ) , 835 ( पी ) , 836, 
837, 838 ( पी ) , 840 ( पी ) , 1060 ( पी ) , 1061 ( पी ) , 1062( पी ) , 1071 ( पी ), 
1073 ( पी ) , 1072 ( पी ) , 1075 ( पी ) , 1076 ( पी ), 1077 ( पी ), 1078 से 1102रुक 
1104 ( पी ) , 1105, 1106 ( पी ) , 1109 ( पी ) , 1110 ( पी ) , 1113 ( पी ) , 1114 ( पी ), 
1115 ( पी ), 1116 ( पी ), 1126 ( पी ), 1127 ( पी ) , 1192( पी ), 1193 ( पी ) , 
1134 पी ) , 1195, 1196 ( पी ) , 1204 ( पी ) , 1209 ( पी ) , 1210( पी ) . 12 1 1 ( पी ) , 
1218 ( पी ), 1219 से 1226तक, 1227 ( पी ) , 1228 ( पी ),1229 ( पी ), 1230 ( पी ) , 
1231 ( पी ) , 1232 ( पी ) , 1233 ( पी ), 1243 ( पी ) , 1244 ( पी ), 1246 ( पी ) , 1248 
( पी ) , 1251 ( पी ), 12 5 2 ( पी ) , 1255 ( पी ) , 1256 ( पी ),1259( पी ), 1260 ( पी ) , 
1263 ( पी ) , 1264 ( पी ), 1267 ( पी ) , 1268 ( पी ), 1271 ( पी ) , 1272 ( पी ), 
1275 ( पी ) , 1276 ( पी ) , 1279 ( पी ) , 1281 ( पी ) , 1262 , 1283, ( पी ) , 1284 से 
1424 तक , 1425 ( पी ), 1426 ( पी ) , 1427 ( पी ) , 1428 से 1483 तक , 1484 ( पी ) 
1.185 से 1490 तक, 1491 ( पी ), 1492 ( पी ), 1494 ( पी ), 149 6( पी ), 1497 ( पी ), 
1498 ( पी ) , 1499 1500, ( पी ), 1501 ( पी ), 1502 ( पी ), 15 0 3 से 1518 
तक , 1519 ( पी ) , 1520 ( पी ) , 1 5 2 1 ( पी ) , 15 22 ( पी ), 15 23 ( पी ) , 1524 ( पी ) , 
1525 ( पी ) , 154G ( पी ), 1981 ( पी ) , 1982 ( पी ), 1983 ( पी ), 1987 ( पी ), 1990 
( पी ) , 1991 ( पी ), 1992 से 2000 तक , 2001 ( पी ) , 2002 ( पी ) , 2003 ( पी ) , 
2006 ( पी ), 2011 ( पी ) , 2012 ( पी ) , 2013 ( पी ), 2014 ( पी ) , 2015 
( पी ), 2016 ( पी ), 2037, ( पी ), 2046 ( पी ), 2047 ( पी ), 2048 ( पी ), 2049 ( पी ) , 
2050 ( पी ) , 2051 ( पी ) से 2081 तक , 2082 ( पी ) , 2083 ( पी ), 2084 ( पी ) , 
2085 से 2254 ( पी ), 2255 ( पी ), 2256 ( पी ), 2287( पी ), 2288( पी ), 2289( पी ) , 
2290 ( पी ) , 2291 ( पी ) , 2292 ( पी ), 2293 ( पी ), 2296 ( पी ) , 2297 ( पी ) , 
2298 ( पी ) , 2202 ( पी ), 2403 ( पी ), 2404 ( पी ), 2405 ( पी ), 2406 ( पी ), 
_ 455 ( पी ) , 2457 ( पी ), 2458 ( पी ) 2459, 2460 ( पी ), 2461 से 2466 तक , 2467 


4262 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30. 1893 [ PART II - 


( पी ) , 2468 ( पी ), 2469, ( पी ), 2473 ( पी ), 2474 ( पी ) , 2479 ( पी ), 2480( पी ) , 
2481 ( पी ) , 2482 ( पी ) , 2483 2384, 2485 ( पी ), 2486 ( पी ) , 
2487 से 2498 तक , 2499 ( पी ) , 2500 ( पी ) , 2501 ( पी ) , 2502 से 3034 , 
3085 ( पी ) , 3086, 3087, 3088 , 3089 ( पी ) , 3091 ( पी ) , 3092 से 3095 तक , 
3096 ( पी ), 3097 ( पी ), 3098 से 3111 तक , 3112 ( पी ), 3114 ( पी ) , 
3115 ( पी ) , 3116 ( पी ) , 31 17, 31 18, 3119 ( पी ) , 3120 ( पी ) , 3121 ( पी ) , 
3122 ( पी ) , 3123 ( पी ) , 3129( पी ) : 3130 ( पी ) , 3182, 3183, 3184 ( पी ) , 
3185, 3186 , 3187, 3188, 3189 , 3190 , 3191, 3200. 3201, 3206, 3207, 
3208, 3209, 3210, 3211 , 3212, 3214 , 3215 , 3216, 3218( पी ) 3219, 32 20 , 
3221, 3224 , 3227 , 3228, 3229, 3231 और 3232, । 
सीमा वर्णन : - - 
क - ध - लाइन ग्राम निजीगढ़ ( तालचड़ उपनगर ) में प्लाट संख्या 57, 1525, 15 24 , 

15 23, 1522, 1546 , 15 21 , 1520, 1519 , 1502, 1501, 1498, 1497, 
1494, 1496, 1491, 149 2, 1491 , 1484 , 2084, 2083, 2082, 2046 , 
2047, 2048, 2049, 2050, 2037, 2014 और 2016 से गुजरती है और 

बिन्दु घ पर मिलती है । 
घ - ग लाइन ग्राम जिीगढ़ तालचहु ( उपनगर ) प्लाट संख्या 2016, 2015, 

2014, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2006 , 2003, 2003, 2001, 2002, 2001, 
1991 , 1990, 1987 , 1983, 1982, 1981, 2255, 2256, 2486, 2485 . 
2289, 2287, 2288 , 2290, 2291, 2292, 2293, 2296 , 2297, 2 298 , 

और 2402 से गुजरती हैं और बिन्दू ग में मिलती हैं । 
ग - लाइन ग्राम निजीगढ़ ( जालघड़ उपनगर ) में प्लाट सख्या 2402, 2403, 2404 , 

2405, 2406 , 2482, 2481 , 2482, 2479 , 2480, 2489, 2500, 2501 , 
2474 , 2473, 2467, 2468 , 2469 , 2460 , 2455, 2459, 2457 , 3130 , 
3129, 3089, 3085, 3091, 3096, 3122, 3123, 3122, 3 1 21, 31 20, 
3119, 3121 , 31 16, 3115 , 3112, 1060, 3114, 3097 , 1061, 1062, 
1077, 1073, 1075, 1074, 107 1, 1106, 1109 1104, 1110, 1113 , 
1114, 1115, 1116 , 1126, 1127, 1283, 1194, 1192, 1193, 1194, 
1204, 1209, 1210, 1211, 1218, 1233, 1232, 1231 , 1230, 1229, 
1 : 28, 1227, 1243 , 1244, 1246, 1248, 1251 , 1252 , 1 255, 1256, 
1259, 1260, 1263, 3218, 1264, 1267, 1268, 1271 , 1273, 1275 , 
1276 , 1279, 1281 , 840 , 838 , 835 , 824, 831 , 830, 829, 822 , 
821, 365, 366, 427, 426, 423, 422, 42 1 , 420 , 419, 418, 417 
416, 428, 429, 430, 456, 457 , 463 , 468, 472 , 473, 477, 478, 
483, 482 , 484, 487, 494 , 4954, 500 , 501 , 507, 553, 554, 582, 
577, 575, 456, 573, 570, 565 , 562, 559, 1304, 129, 128, 127 , 
3184 , 118, ग्राम रेमूत्रा में प्लाट संख्या 307, 304 , 306, 307, 06, 
300, 301, 298, 297, ग्राम निजीगढ़ जामे में प्लाट संख्या 175 से गुजरती है 

और बिन्दु ख पर मिलती है । 
ख - म लाइन ग्राम निजीगढ़ जाम में प्लाट संख्यांक 175, 174, 173, 178, 124, 115 , 164, 

103, 102, 99, 96, 95, से होकर ग्राम चौलियाकूटा मैं प्लाट सख्यांक 69, 70, 


SEC. 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4263. 


65, 54 (अर्थात् ड्यूल वेडा कोयला खान पट्टा सीमा की भागत : सामान्य सीमा के 

साथ ) से होकर गुजरती है यौन बिटु ब मिलती है । 
ब - म लाइन चालियाकूटा में प्लाट वलयांक 54, + 7, 45, और सड़क से होकर, ग्राम 
निजीगढ़ ( तलबड उपनगर ) में प्लाट संध्यांक 72, 73, 75 ( सड़वः 1, 2, और 3 ) 

होकर प्लाट संच्या 76 से होकर दक्षिणी सीमा के साथ , प्लाट संख्यांक 77, 82 भार 

144 25 की दक्षिणी सीमा के साथ होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु हा पर मिलती है । 
श - ज लाइन ग्राम निजीगड़ ( तल बड उपनगर ) के प्लाट संख्यांक 1425, 1426, और 

1427 से गुजती है और बिन्दु ज पर मिलती है । 
ज - छ - च - ड लाइने ग्राम निजीगढ़ ( नलचड़ उपनगर ) में प्लाट मयांक 14 27, 80, 79 , 82 , 

77 , 76, 75, 73, 72 , 69, 71 ( सड़क 1 , 2 और 3 ) से होकर और ग्राम चौलिया -- 

कूटा की ट्रक से होकर गुजरती है और बिन्दु ‘ ड़ पर मिलती है । 
ड - फ लाइन ग्रान मिजीगढ़ ( लालचड उपनगर ) में चौलियाकूटा ग्राम के रूट संख्यांक 

( सड़क 1, 2 और 3 ) प्लाट संख्यांक 60, 64 , 60, 61 , 60, 59 और 57 (अर्थात् 
ड्यूलवेडा कोयला खान पट्टा सीमा की भागतः सामान्य सीमा के साथ ) से होकर 
गजरती है और बिन्दू क पर मिलती है । 

[सं० फा० कोयला - 3- 2( 4) / 70 ] 


के० सुबह्मण्यन , अवर सचिन । 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 19th July 1971 
S . O . 3033 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known ag. 
Messrs Balailal Mukherjee and Company Private Limited , Naya Bazar, Cuttack 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family : 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1968 . 

[ No . S .- 36019 ( 67 ) / 71 - PF . II .] 
श्रम रोजगार और पूनर्वास मंत्रालय 

( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 19 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3033- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स बलाइलाल मुकर्जी 
एण्ड कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड नया बाजार, कटक नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों 
की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारियों की भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने 
चाहिए । 


4264 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA: 30, 1893 [ PART II .... 


" 


- . . . 


- - . -. 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा । की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 

अह अधिसूचना 1968 की फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 67 ) / 7 1 - पी० एफ० - 2 ] 


S .O . 3034.- - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the cmployer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Hotel Groves, 3 / 17 , Asaf Ali Road, New Delhi have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the Arst day of 
December , 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 28) / 71 -PF . II .] 


का० प्रा० 3034.-~ - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स होटल ग्रोव्स 
3 / 17, आसफ अली रोड़, नई दिल्ली नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहसंख्या 
इस बता पर सहमत हो गई है कि कमचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 1952 
( 195 2 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उप धारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एन हद्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 के दिसम्बर , के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 28 ) / 71 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . O . 3035 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, Moodabidri, South Kanara, Mysore State hava 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds und Family Pension 
Fund Act , 1852 ( 18 of 1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sald Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February , 1970 . 

[ No . S - 35019 / 22 / 71 / PF - II (ii ) . ] 
फा० प्रा० 303 5. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स मंगलौर गणेश 
बीड़ी वर्क्स मूदाबीजूरी, साउथ कनारा, मैसूर राज्य , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्म 
चारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भवष्यि निधि और कूटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

अतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्दद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस - 35019 ( 56 ) / 71 -पी० एफ० 2 ] 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4265 


appears in relati Mysore 


S . O . 3036. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Marickhag Oil Mills , Manickbag Belgaum , Mysore State hyve agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ), should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force or the first day of 
January , 1971 . 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 33 ) / 71 - P. F . II ] 


का० प्रा० 3036. - ~यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स मनिकबग पायल 
मिल्स , मनिकबेग बेलगांव , मैसूर राज्य नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की 
बहरांख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कमचारी भविष्य निधि और कूटम्ब पशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए ; 

प्रतः, अब, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) हारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्दद्वारा लागू करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी की प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं०एस० 35019 ( 33 )/ 71-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . 0 . 3037. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 

Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works , Ullal, Mangalore Taluk, South Kanara have agreen 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
lion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisio is of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February, 1970 . 

[ No. S -35010(38)/ 71 / PF.-II.] 
का० प्रा० 3037. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स मंगलौर गणेश 
बीडी वर्क्स , उल्लास , मंगलौर तालक , साउथ कनारा नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और 
कमचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटम्ब पेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिए 

अतः, अत्र, उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 

यह अधिसूचना 1970 की फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 


[ सं० एस० 35019( 38) / 71-पी०एफ02 ] 


S . O . 3038 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Nagaram Co- operative Milk Supply Society Limited, No. D . 3 ( D ) , Tali, Calicut , Kerala 
State have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and 
Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment; 


4266 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II . 


Now, therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment with effect from the 31st July , 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019 ( 66 ) / 71 -PP. II . T 


ET० प्रा० 3038. -.- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स 
नागरम कोआपरेटिव मिल्क सप्लाई सोसाइटी लिमिटेड, न० डी - 3 ( डी ), ताली कालीकट - 1, 
केरल राज्य , नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन की लागू किए जाने चाहिएं । 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 31 जुलाई , 1971 से उक्त अधिनियम के उपन्बध उक्त स्थापन को 
एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 

[ सं० एस०- 35019( 66 ) / 71-पी० एफ० 2 ] 


S . O . 3039 , -— Whereas it appears to the Cental Government that the employers 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrg 
S . M . K . Industries, Plot No. 63A, 1st floor , Virco Bhawan, Government Industrial 
Estate , Kandivali (West ) Bombay - 67 have agreed that the provisions of the Emplo 
yees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be 
made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the sold Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
August , 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35017 / 5 / 71 - PF . II (i) .] 
का० प्रा० 303 8... - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स एस० 
एम० के० इण्डस्ट्रीज , प्लाट न० 63 ए, फर्स्ट फ्लोर, विरको भवन , गवर्नमेंट इंडस्ट्रियल एस्टेट कान्दी 
वली ( वेस्ट ) बम्बई - 67 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कमचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात 
पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 
का 19) के उपबन्ध उवत स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 


प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त टिनिटम के उपबाध उक्त रयापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
. यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अगरत के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ संख्या एस० 350 17( 12 )/ 71-पी०एफ० 2 ] 


s. o . 3040 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
Leo Textiles , 22/ 5 , Hadapsar Industrial Estate, Poona -13 have agreed that the pro 
visions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 
of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment . 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April , 1970 . 

[ No. S. 35017/ 5/ 71 - PF. II(i).] 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 189 , 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


-- 


का० मा० 3040. -- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स लियो 
टैक्सटाइल्स 22/ 5, हदप्सर इंडस्ट्रियल एस्टेट , पूना - 13 नामक स्थापन से सम्बध नियोजक और 
कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्बपेंशन 
निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लाग किए जाने चाहिएं ; 


अत , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1979 अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35017 ( 5) / 71 --पी० एफ० 2( i) ] 


S . O . 3041. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st April 1970 the establishment known as Messrs Leo 
Textiles, 22 / 5 , Hadapsar Industrial Estate, Pooma -13 for the purposes of the said 
proviso. 

___ [ No. S. 35017/ 5/ 71 - PF . II (ii) .] 
का० प्रा० 30 41. - - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 
( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार इस विषय में आवश्यक जांच कर लेने के पश्चात् एतद्द्वारा मैसर्स लियो टेक्सटाइल्स , 22/ 5 , 
हदप्सर इडस्ट्रियल एस्टेट पना - 13 नामक स्थापन को प्रथम अप्रैल , 1970 से उक्त परन्तुक के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[सं० एस० 35017 ( 5 ) 171-पी०एफ० - 2 (ii) ] 


S .O , 3042 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishmerit known as Messrs 
Jai Forgings and Stampings (Private ) Limited Industrial Area , Yamuna Nagar , 
have agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family 
Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January, 1971. 

[ No. S. 35019( 22 )/ 71 - PF - II (i). 1 
का० प्रा० 3042. - - पत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मैसर्स जै फोर 
जिग्स एण्ड स्टम्पिगस (प्राईवेट ) लिमिटेड , इंडस्ट्रियल एरिया , यमुना नगर नामक स्थापन से सम्बवध 
नियोजक और कर्मचायिों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और 
कटुम्ब पैशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए 
आने चाहिएं ; 


अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करत 
हए सरकार उका अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत्त हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० - 35019( 22 )/71-मी० एफ०-2 ] 


268 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART I! -- 


S . O . 3043 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 of 
the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
the Central Government, after making necessary enquiry into the matter , hereby 
specifies with effect from the 1st January, 1971 the establishment known as Messrs 
Jai Forgings and Stampings (Private ) Limited , Industrial Area , Yamuna Nagar 
for the purpose of the said proviso . 

[ No. S - 35019/ 22 / 71 / PF -II (ii).] 
का० प्रा० 30 :43. - - केन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि , 
अधिनियम , 195211. Pा 1.} }ी धारा 6 के प्रथम परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए, सम्बत . ५ में . क जात्र करने के पश्चात् प्रथम जनवरी, 1971 से मैसर्स . 
फोजिग्स . . . ) लिमिटेड इन्डस्ट्रियल एरिया , यमुना नगर नामक स्थापन को 
एतदद्वार . . . . . . के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[ सं० एस० - 350 19 ( 22 )/ 71 -पी० एफ० 2 (ii) ] 
. . . .. . . . pears to the Central Government that the employer 

Lioyees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs 
[ Agriculture Development Private Limited, 24 , R. N . 

Ita - 1 have agreed that the provisions of the Employees 
.. Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952) , should be made 
. : said establishment ; 


erefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (4 ) of 

un the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of 
. .. . Act to the said establishment . 
This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
April, 1970. 

__ [ No. S . 35018 / 15 / 71 - PF. II ( i). ] 
का० प्रा० 3044. - - चतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स ग्रोवर हैड 
इरीगेशन एण्ड एग्रीकल्चर डेवलपमेन्ट प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 24 - आर० एन० मुखर्जी रोड , कलकत्ता - 1 
नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक ओर कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्म 
चारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19) के उपबन्ध उक्त 
स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उप -धारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1970 के अप्रैल के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ स० एस० - 35018 ( 15 )/ 71 -पी० एफ० 2 ( i)] 
S . O . 3045 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by first proviso to section 6 
of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government , after making necessary enquiry into the matter, 
hereby specifies with effect from the first April, 1970 the establishment known as 
Messrs Overhead Irrigation and Agriculture Development Private Limited , 24 , 
R . N . Mukherjee Road , Calcutta - 1 for the purposes of the said proviso . 

[ No. S. 35018 ( 15 ) / 71 - PF. II (ii ). 1 
का० 3045: - - कोन्द्रीय सरकार कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पशन निधि 
अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 6 के प्रथम परतुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए संबंद्रध विषय में अावश्यक जांच करने के पश्चात् एतद्द्वार , प्रथम अप्रैल , 1970 से मैमर्स 

ओवरहैड इरीगेशन एड एग्रीकल्चर डवेलपमेन्ट प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, 24 पार० एन० मुखर्जी रोड, 
कलकत्ता - 1 नामक स्थापन को उक्त परन्तुक के उद्देश्यों के लिए विनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 

[सं० एस० 35018( 15 )/पी०एफ० 2 ( ii ) ] 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 4269 


S . 0 . 3046 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs . 
H . M . T . Ancillary Units , Co -operative Society , Limited , Bangalore, 31 have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund 
Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby applics the provisions of 
the said Act to the said establishment, 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
January, 1971. 

___ [ No. S. 35019 ( 32 )/ 71 - PF . II. ] 
का० प्रा० 30 4 6. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेनर्स एच० एम० टी० 
एनसीलियरी युनिट, कोआपरेटिव सोसाइटी लिमिटेड , बंगलौर - 31 नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक 

और कर्मचारियों की बहुसंख्या इस बात पर सहमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और परिवार 
पशन निधि अधिनियम, 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किए जाने चाहिएं ; 

अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केंद्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लागू करती है । 
यह अधिसूचना 1971 की जनवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हुई समझी जाएगी । 

[ सं० एस० 35019 ( 32 )/ 71 -पी० एफ० 2] 


S . O . 3047 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employers 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as Messrs. 
Mangalore Ganesh Beedi Works, Bantwal, South Kanara have agreed that the 
provisions of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pension Fund Act , 1952 
( 19 of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of sec 
tion 1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the first day of 
February , 1970 . 

[ No. S. 36019( 18 ) /71 -PF . II . ] 
फा० प्रा० 30 47.--...यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि मेसर्स मंगलोर गणेश 
बीडी वर्कस बन्तबाल , दक्षिण कनारा नामक स्थापन से सम्बद्ध नियोजक और कर्मचारियों की बहू 
संख्या इस बात पर महमत हो गई है कि कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम , 
1952 ( 1952, का 19 ) के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को लागू किये जाने चाहिये । 

प्रतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 1 की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त अधिनियम के उपबन्ध उक्त स्थापन को एतद्द्वारा लाग करती है । 
यह अधिसचना 1970 की फरवरी के प्रथम दिन को प्रवृत हई समझी जाएगी । 

[सं० एम० 35019 ( 18 )/ 71 -पी० एफ . 2] 

T26L Man 20747 21sCT MON 
so. 3048 -- -In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds and Family Pensions Fund Act , 1952 (19 of 
1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri M , A , Sutaria to be an Ins 
pector for the whole of the State of Maharashtra for the purposes of the said Act 
and of any Scheme framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging 
to , or under the control of the Central Government, or in relation to any establish 
ment connected with a railway company , a major port, a mine or an oil - field or a 
controlled industry . 

[ No. A. 12015 ( 4 ) / 71 - PF. I. 1 


4270 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


- - 


- 


farat , 20 JAT , 1971 
का० प्रा० 3048 - केन्द्रीय सरकार, कमचारी भविष्य निधि और कुटुम्ब पेंशन निधि अधिनियम 
1952 ( 1952 FT 19 ) at STTT 13 JTETIT ( 1) ART GT affRT ET YUTT Hat 
हए, एतदद्वारा श्री एम० ए० सुतारिया को उक्त अधिनियम के और तदधीन बनाई गई. 
किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रण में किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या 
किसी रेल कम्पनी, किसी महापत्तन , किसी खान या किसी तेल क्षेत्र या किसी नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित 
किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में सम्पूर्ण महाराष्ट्र राज्य के लीए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती 

[FEAT To - 12015 ( 4 ) / 71- 070 740 il 


New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 


S . O . 3049 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
Statc Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Dep 
artment of Labour and Employment No. S . O . 1528 , dated the 27th March , 1971, the 
C : ntral Government, liaving regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4 ) 
of the Schedulc hereto annexed in areas specified in column (3 ) of the said Schedule 
in the State Of Uttar Pradesh in which the provisiong of Chaptcre IV and V of the said 
Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of employer s 
special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year from the 26th June, 1971 upto and inclusive of 25th June , 1972 or until the 
enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , whichever is earlier . 


SCHEDULE 


Name of Area 2 


Name ofthe Factory . 


si. Name of District 
No, " 

( 1) ( 2 ) 
I . Azamgarh · 


(4 ) 


(3 ) 
Azamgarh 


. 


, 


2 . Balia 


. 


. 


. 


. Balia . 


. 


. 


3. Bulundshar · 


· Khurja 


· 


4 . Faizabad 


. 


. 


. Masodha 


. 


. 


. I, Messrs Shri Mahabir Finishing 

l actory , Sahaduttapura , Mua 

nath Bhanjan , Azamgarh , who 
2 . Messrs Arjun Textiles , Ghazipu 

Road , Maungth Bhanjan , Azam 

garh , 
. Messrs Sarasvati Iron and Steel 

Industries , Baleshwar Ghat Road , 

Balla . 
Messrs L . G . Products , Junction 

Road , Khurja . 
. Messrs Vishnu Industrial Enter 

prisca Limited , Motinegar Rail 

way Station , Masodha. 
· Vrindaban Porcelain and Enamel 

Industrica , Udyognagar. 
Messrg Swastika Metal Rolling 

Mille , Delhi Road , 
. Messrs Electra , B -4, Industrial 

Estate . - 
Mc9g8 Sarda Vidut Grih , Lohla 
. Head . 
Messrs Grcen Land Food (Private 

Limited, Dehradun Road , 
Messrs Indian Oil Corporation 

Limited , Ali Nagar, G , T . Road , 


5 . Mathura 


. 


. 


. Vrindaban · 


· 


6 . Muzzaffarnagar 


. 


Shamli 


, 


, 


7. Mcerut 


. 


. 


. Partappur 


. 


. 


8 , Nainital 


. 


Lohla Hegd 

(Via Pilibhit) 
. Ram Nagar , 


. 
, 


9 . Saharanpur , 


. 


10 . Varanasi 


· 


· 


· Mughalsarai 


, 


[No. F . 602(14 )/ 70 -HI] 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4271 


नई दिल्ली , 31 जुलाई 1971 
का० प्रा० 3049. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 
की धारा 73- च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 1528 तारीख 27 
मार्च, 1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों 
की उक्त अन सूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं है , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय एक के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के सन्दाय से , 26 जन , 
1971 से 25 जून, 1972 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है , से और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या 
तब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवत्त नहीं हो 
जाते, जो भी पहले हो , एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 

अनुसूची 


जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम 
संख्या 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


1 


आजमगढ़ 


2 बलिया 


3 बुलन्दशहर 
. 4 फैजाबाद 


( 3 ) 
प्राजमगढ़ . . 1. मैसर्स श्री महाबीर फिनिशिंग फैक्टरी, शहादत 

पुरा , मऊनाथ भंजन, आजमगढ़ । 
2. मैसर्स अर्जुन टैक्सटाइल्स , गाजीपुर रोड , 

___ मऊनाथ भंजन, आजमगढ़ । 
. बलिया . 

. मैसर्स सरस्वती पायरन एण्ड स्टील इन्डस्ट्रीज , 

बलेश्वर घाट रोड , बलिया । 
. खुरजा 

. मैसर्स एल० जी० प्रोडक्टस, जंकशन रोड, खुरजा । 
. मसोधा 

. मैसर्स विष्णु इण्डस्ट्रियल एण्टरप्राइजिज लिमिटेड , 

मोती नगर रेलवे स्टेशन , मसोधा । 
. वृन्दावन . वृन्दावन पोसिलेन एण्ड इनेमल इण्डस्ट्रीज, उद्योग 

नगर । 
. शाम ती मैसर्स स्वस्तिका मेटल रोलिंग मिल्स, देहली रोड । 
, प्रतापपुर . मैसर्स इलैक्ट्रा , बी - 4, इण्डस्ट्रियल एस्टेट । 
. लोहिया हेड मैसम सारदा विद्युत गृह, लोहिया हेड । 

( वाया पीलीभीत ) 
. रामनगर . मैसर्स ग्रीन लैण्ड फूड ( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड, 

देहरादून रोड । 
. मुगलसराय . मैसर्स इण्डियन प्रायल कारपोरेशन लिमिटड , 

अली नगर , जी०टी० रोड । 


___ मथुरा 


6 मुजफ्फरनगर 
7 मेरट . 
8 नैनीताल 


9 


सहारनपुर 


10 वाराणसी 


[संख्या फा० 602( 14)/ 70-एच ० प्राई ०] 


4272 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PART TI 


- 


s . o . 3050. - In exercisc of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees State 
Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notification of the Government o 
India in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (department of Labour and 
Employment ) No . S . O . 4909dated the 4th December , 1969. The Central Government , having 
regard to the location of the factories specified in column (4 ) of the Scheduled hereto annexed 
in areas specificdin column (3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of Mysore in which the provi 
giong of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force , hereby cxempts the said factories 
from the Pıyment of employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year from the date of expiry of the period specified in the said 
notification or untilthe enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those area 
whichever is carlicr . 


SCHEDULE 


-- 


Name of the District 


Name of the Area 


S1. 
No. 


Name of the Factory 


1 


3 


I . Bangalore 


. 


. 


. Ramnagaram 


. 


2. 


Belgaum 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Kittur . 
Soundathi . 


. 


3. Bijapur 


. 


. 


Bijapur 


. 


. 


4 . Gulbarga 


. 


. 


. 


Kapnoor 


. 


. 


M /s. Mysore Aluminium (Private 

Limited , Industrial Estate . 
. Sub - Station, Mysore State Electri 

city Board . 
. M / s. Workshop and Maintenance 

Sub - Division M . D . S . Colony 
. M / s . Joghi Ferrous Foundry and 

Workshop , Industrial Estate . 
• M /s. Spun Pipe and Construction 

Company India Limited , Bill 

gundi Building, Gunj Road . 
. M / s. Indira Match Industrics , 3rd 

Jain Street . 
• M / s. Ram Krishna Tilc Worksi 

Malur . 
. M/s... S. P. S. Industries, Galipur 

Road , 


$ . Hassan 


. 


. 


. 


Holenarasipur 


. 


6. 


Kolar 


. 


. 


Kotar • 


• 


• 


7. Mysorc 


. 


. 


• Chunarajanagar . 


[ No . F. S -38014/ 3/ 71 / HI ] 


का० प्रा० 3050.--- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की 
धारा 73-च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 4909 तारीख 4 दिसम्बर, 
1969 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों की 
उक्त अनसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट मैसूर राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 5क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से , उक्त अधिसूचना में 
विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक 
कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते, जो भी पहले हो , 
एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 


SEc. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4273 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 
- - 
क्षेत्र का नाम 


जिले का नाम 


फारखाने का नाम 


क्रम 
संख्या 


. - 


- - - - 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


1 बगलौर 


2 बैल्गाम 


3 बीजापुर 


. रामनगरम . मैसर्स मैसूर एलुमीनियम ( पी ) लिमिटेड, इंडस्ट्रियल 

इस्टेट । 

.. सब-स्टेशन, मैसूर राज्य विद्युत बोर्ड । 
सौडाथी . मैसर्स वर्कशाप एण्ड मेण्टिनेन्स सब-डिवीजन , एम० 

डी० एस० कालोनी । 
बीजापुर . मैसर्स जोशी फेरस फाउण्ड्री एण्ड वर्कशाप, इंडस्ट्रियल 

इस्टेट । 
. कपनूर . मैमर्स स्पन पाइप एण्ड कन्स्ट्रक्शन कं० इण्डिया 

___ लिमिटेड, बिलाउंडी बिल्डिंग , गंज रोड । 
. होलेनरसीपुर . मैसर्स इन्दिरा मैच इण्डस्ट्रीज़, थर्ड जैन स्ट्रीट । 

कोलार . . मैसर्स रामकृष्ण टा . ल वर्क्स, मालुर । 
. चमराजनगर . मैसर्स एस०पी०एम० इंडस्ट्रीज, गलीपुर रोड । 


4 गुलबर्गा 


5 हसन 
6 कोलार . 
7 मैसूर 


[ सं० एफ० एस० 38014( 3 ) / 71 - एच०आई० ] 
S . O . 3051. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em . 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1848) , and in continuation of the norm 
fication of the Government of Iindia in the Ministry of Labour, Employment ałowe 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 3609 , dated 
the 23rd October , 1970 , the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
factory, namely , Bombay Electric Supply and Transport Undertakings Buş Garage 
at Wadala , Bombay in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and Y of 
the said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of 
the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 10th June, 1971 upto and 
inclusive of the 9th June, 1972. 

[ No. F . 601 ( 7 ) / 70- HI. ] 
का० प्रा० 3051 - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) 
की धारा 73- च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम, रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 3609 तारीख 23 
अक्टूबर , 1970 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार की ऐसी क्षेत्र मे ,जिसमे उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 
के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त है, याउला मुम्बई में बाम्बे इलैक्ट्रिक सप्लाई एण्ड ट्रान्मपर्ट अण्डरटेकिग बस गैराज 
नामक कारखाने की अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
5 -क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय विशेष नियोजक -अभिवाय के सादाय से 29 जून , 1971 से 28 जून, 1972 
तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्वारा छुट देती है । 


[ संख्या एफ० 60 1 ( 7 ) / 70 - एच०आई० } 


4274 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II 

- - - - 
S . 0 . 3052 . --In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees State 
surance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employmentand Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No . S . O . 158 dated the I6th December , 1970 the Central Government, having 
Tegard to the locrtion of the factories specified in column ( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed 
in arcag specified in coluinn3 of the said Schedule in the State of Bihar in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and y of the said Act are not in force, hereby exempts the said factories from 
the payment of employer s specialcontribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a 
further period of one year from the date of expiry of the period spöcificd in the said notification 
or until the enforecement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , which ever 
is carlier. 


SCHEDULE 


Sl. 


Name of District 


Name of Arca 


Name of the factory 


(1) 


(2) 


( 2 ) 


I . Bhagalpur 


. 


. 


. 


Barahgama . 


. 


Sultanganj . 


. 


2. Champaran . 


. 


. Sagauli . 


. 


. 


3. Dhanbad 


. 


. 


. 


Govindpur . 


. 


Mohaud 
Hirodih 


. 
. 


. 
. 


4 . Hazaribagh . 


. 


. 


. Messrs Ajanta Stonc Works at 

_ Barahgama , Amarpur. 
. Messrs Bihar Khadi Gramodhor 

____ Sang , Saranjan Karayalaya . 
. Messrs Bajrang Saw Mill , Post 

Sagauli. 
. Messrs Laxmi Stecl Industries Post 

Office Govindpur, 
. Messrs Bihar Cement Products . 
. Messrs Gayday Iron Steel Com 

pany Limted , Post Office 

Hirodih. 
- Messrs Chandi Birdaban Stone 

Works, Station Road . 
. Messrs Foot Wear Factory, Post 

Office Bikram . 
. MIRrs Vividh Engineering Works. 
. Messrs Agarwal and Co . 


5. 


Mohghyr 


. 


. 


. 


Sheikhpura . 


. 


6. Patna . 


. 


. 


. 


Bikram 


. 


. 


Biharsharif . 
Mohania . 


. 
. 


7. Shahbad 


. 


. 


. 


[ No . FS - 38017( I )/ 7I - HI ] 


का प्रा . 30 52. -- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) 
की धारा 73-च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का 0 प्रा 0 15 8 , तारीख 16 
दिसम्बर , 1970 के अनुवर्तन में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबर अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट 
कारखानों की उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिदिष्ट बिहार राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त 
कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क के अधीन नियोजक के उद्ग्रहणीय विशेष अभिदाय के 
सन्दाय से, उक्त अधिसूचना में विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष की और अवधि 
के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्नों में प्रवत्त 
नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो, एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 


Sec. 3 (11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4275 


अनुसूची 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम जिले का नाम 
संख्या 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


1 भागलपुर 


. बाराहगमा 

सुल्तानगंज 


. सगौली 


2 चम्पारन 
3 धनबाद 


. गोबिन्दपुर 

मोहुदा 
हिरोडिह 


- 4 हजारीबाग 


. मैसर्स अजन्ता स्टोन वर्क्स, बाराहगमा , अमरपुर 
. मैसर्स बिहार खादी ग्रामोद्योग संघ , सरंजन कार्यालय 
. मैसर्स बजरंग सॉ मिल , पोस्ट सगौली 

मैसर्स लक्ष्मी स्टील इंडस्ट्रीज डाकघर गोबिन्दपूर 
. मैसर्स बिहार सीमेण्ट प्राडक्ट 
. मैसर्स गेडे प्राइरन स्टील कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर 

हिरोडिह 
मैसर्स चण्डी बिरादरान स्टोन वर्क्स स्टेशन रोड 
. मैसर्स फुटवीयर फैक्टरी, डाकघर बिक्रम 
. मैसर्स विधि इंजीनियरिंग वर्स 
. मैसर्स अग्रवाल एण्ड के 


5 मुगेर 
6 पटना . 


. शेखपुरा 
. बिक्रम 
बिहारशरीफ 
मोहनिया 


7 शाहाबाद 


[ संख्या एफ० एस०- 38 017 ( 1)/ 71/ एच० पाई . ] 


S : 0 . 3053 : - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees State 
Insurance Act . 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , andincontinuation of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment and Rebahiliation (Department of Labour and 
Employment ) No . S . O . 4128 dated the 29th Septemebr , 1969 the Central Government havine 
regard to the location of the factories specified in column ( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed in 
areas specifiecd in column ( 3 ) of the said Scheudle in the State of Tamil Nadu in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and y of the said Act are not in force , hercby excmpts thc asid fac 
tories from the payment of employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
gaid Act for a further period of one year from the date of expiry of the period specified in the 
gaid notification or until the enforcement of provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those 
areas , whichever is carlier . 

SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


Name of District 


Name of Area 


Name of the factory 


(1) 


- --- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 
( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


I. Chingleput . 


. 


: Alichivakkan 


. 


. Lakshmi Paper and Board 

Sholavarum , 


Mills , 


2 . Salam . 


. 


. 


. 


Ariyagoundanpatti 


. 


Ayilpatti 


· 


· 


Sriman Narayana Sago Factory , 
Namagiri Pettaie (Via ). 
Jayalakshmi Sago Factory Allur 
Main Road , 
Dhafialakshmi Vils Sago Factory 
Nimagiripot, 


Chinfiakakkaveri • 


• 


4276 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II 


- - . - 


. 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


Namagiripet . . SriManicka Vinayagir Sago Factor 

S . F . 18 / 3 , Pudupatti Road . 
R . Pudupatti . . Shri Shammuga Sago Factory 

Namagiri Pettai (Via ), Rasipuram 

Taluk. 
Singalandapuram . . Prakasam ago Factory Thoppu 

patti Road , Rashipuram Taluk. 
Tho Jeddarpalayam · (I ) ShriLakshmiVilas Sago Factory 

Namgiri Pet . 
( 2 ) Sri Sengottaiah Sago Factory 

Namagir Pet ( Via ) Rashipurame 
Taluk . 

[ No. F. S-38017(13)/ 71- HI] 
का० प्रा० 3053 .- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रा , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 128 तारीख 29 सितम्बर, 1969 
के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों की उक्त 
अनसची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट तमिलनाड राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में ,जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं है , अबस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखानों को उक्त अधि 
नियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेषअभिदाय के सन्दाय से , उक्त अधिसूचना 
में विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तम तक के लिए जब तक 
कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद 
द्वारा छूट देती है : 

अनुसूची 


जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम 
संख्या 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- 


1 चिंगलपुट 
2 सलेम 


अलिंचीवक्कम 
अरियोगोदनदनपट्टी 


अइलापट्टी 
चिन्नाकाककावेरी 


लक्ष्मी पेपर एंड बोर्ड मिल्स , शोलावरम : 
श्रीमननारायण सागो फैक्टरी , नामगिरी 

पं.ट्टई ( वाया ) 
जयलक्ष्मी सागौ फैक्टरी, अत्तुर मेन रोड : 
घनलक्ष्मी विलास सागौ फैक्टरी , नामा 
गिरीपेट : 
श्री मनिका विनयगिरि सागो फैक्टरी , एस० 

एफ 0 18/ 3, पुडुपट्टी रोड : 
श्री शम्मुगा सागौ फैक्टरी , नामगिरी 
पीट्टई ( वाया ), रसीपुरम तालुक : 


नामगिरीपेट 


पार • पुष्पट्टी 


Sec, 3 ( 11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4277 


. 


- 


- . - 


- 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


(1) 


( 2) 


(3 ) 


सिंगलान्दापुरम 


थो जैद दारलायम 


प्रकासम सागो फैक्टरी , थोप्पापट्टी रोड , 

रशीपुरम तालुकः : 
( 1 ) f eat faare PTT 69707, 
__ नामगिरी पत : 
( 2 ) Eft TTECT FITT $ 4247, 
नामगिरी पेट ( वाया ) रशीपुरम तालुक : 


[ GMT Võo go- 38017 ( 1 3)/ 7 - 8 of o] 
S . O . 3054 — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees , 
Statc Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 2263 , dated the 31st May , 1969 the Central 
Government, having regard to the location of the factories specified in column ( 4 ) of the 
Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in column (3 ) of the said . Schedule in the 
State ofMysore in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in 
force , hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of employer s special con 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year from 
the date of expiry of the period specified in the said notification or until the enforcement of 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , whichever is carlier . 

SCHEDULE 


$ 1. Name of the District 
No . 


Name of Area 


Name of the Factory 


I 


2 


3 


I. Bangalore 


. 


. 


Kumbalagodu 
Konanakunte 
Hoskote . 


. 


. 


2 . Bellary 
3. Dbarwar 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· Paradavanahalli - 
. Ron 

. 


Hireherur 


. 


. 


Shirahatti . 


: 


4 . Hassan . 


. 


Arsiker 


· 


· 


Associated Drug Company Limit- - 

ed , Chemical Division , 
. Best & Company Limited 7th Mile 

Kanakapura Road . 
. R . C . C . PolesManufacturing Centre , 

Mysore State Electrcity Board . 
· Bellary Water Works , Via Maka 

Post . 
. Mysore State Road Transport 

Corporation , Depot Workshop . 
. Power House , Mysore State Elec 

tricity Board 
Power House , Mysore State Elec 

tricity Board . 
· Karnataka Cori Products , B .H . 

Road , 
· R .C .C . Poles Manufacturing Centre, 

Mysore State Electricity Board , 

Shanker Match Industries , 
- The Pandavapura Taluk Agricul 

ture Productivity Co - operative 

Marketing Societies . 
Seven Seas lisheries , Hospet 

Village, 
Vinavak Saw Mills . 
Bharat Tile Company Shiralli , 

Puttur Post Office . 
. Sri Bhavanti Wood Works . 
Ambika Tile Works, Hognag 

Taluk , 


. 


. 


. Kolat 


5. Kolar . 
6 . Mysore 
7. Mandya 


· 
. 


Yewala . 
. Panduvapura 


. 


. 


8 . South Kanara 


. 


Suratkal 


Gangoli 
Kallianpur 


Karkala 
Hulikal 


9 . Shimoga 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 


. 


(No. F . SO - 38014, 3171 -HI) 


427 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II— 


का० प्रा० 3054. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
* 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगारविभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2263, तारीख 31 मई , 1969 
के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों की उक्त 
अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ( में विनिर्दिष्ट मैसूर राज्य के ऐसे क्षेत्रों में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के सन्दाय से , उक्त अधिसूचना में 
विनिर्दिष्ट अवधि की समाप्ति की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक कि 
उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्वारा 
छूट देती है । 


अनुसूची 


जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


क्रम 
सं० 


- 


- - - -- - 


- - -- 


- -- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - 


- -- - -- - - - -- - 


1 बंगलौर 


कुम्बलागोडू 


एसोसिएटेड ड्रग कं . लिमिटेड, फैमिकल 
डिवीजन , वेस्ट एंड कं . लिमिटेड , 

7वां मील , कानाकपुरा रोड । 
पार० सी० सी० पोल्स मैन्युफैक्चरिंग 

सेन्टर , मैसूर राज्य विद्युत बोर्ड । 


होस्कोटे 


2 बेल्लारी 


परडावनहल्ली 


बेल्लारी वाटर वर्क्स, बरास्ता माका-पोस्ट । 


. 3 धारवाड़ 


रान 


हिरेकेरूर 
शिराहट्टी 


मैसूर राज्य सड़क परिवहन निगम , डिपो 

वर्कशाप । 
पावर हाउस , मैसूर राज्य विद्युत बोर्ड । 
पावर हाउस, मैसूस राज्य विद्युत बोर्ड । 


- 4 हसन 


पार्सीकर 


कर्नाटक कोरी प्रोडक्ट्स , बी० एच० रोड । 


5 कोलार 


कोलार 


पार० सी० सी० पोल्स मैन्युफैक्चरिंग सेन्टर, 
__ मैसूर राज्य विद्युत बोर्ड । 


6 मैसूर 


येयाला 


शंकर मंच इंडस्ट्रीज । 


7 मांड्या 


पांडवपुरा 


दि पांडवपुरा तालुक एग्रि० प्रोडक्टिविटी 
___ को प्राप० मार्केटिंग सोसाइज । 


N 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 18934279 


8 साउथ कनारा 


सूरतफाल 
गंगोल्ली 
कल्लियानपुर 


सवन सीज़ फिशरीज , हास्पेट ग्राम । 
विनायक सां मिल्स । 
भारत टाइल कं० शिराल्ली, उत्तर प्रदेश , 

पो० प्रा० । 
श्री भवन्ती वुड वर्क्स । 


करकाला 


9 शिमोगा 


हुलिकाल 


। अम्बिका टाइल वर्क्स, होरुंनागग टीके । 


[ सं० एफ० एस० - 38014 ( 3 )/ 71 - एच ० आई० ] 


S . O . 3055. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re 
habilitation (Department of Labour an Employment) No . S . O . 06 , dated the 16th 
December , 1970 the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
Cottage Industries and Textile Training Insititute , Nagpur in an area in which 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in forco , hereby exempts 
the said factory from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect. 
from the 2nd June, 1971 upto and inclusive of the 1st June, 1972 . 

__ [ No. F .801 (19) / 70- HI.] 
का प्रा० 30 55. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 66, तारीख 16 दिसम्बर , 
1970 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार कारखाने ,अर्थात् काटेज इण्डस्ट्रीज एण्ड टेक्सटाइल ट्रेनिंग इन्सटीट्यूट, 
नागपुर की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - 2 के अधीन उदग्रहणीय 
नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 2 जून , 1971 से 1 जून , 1972 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी 
सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 

[सं० एफ० 601 ( 19 )/ 70 -एच० प्राई. ] 
S . O . 3056 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees " 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 389 , dated the 
13th January, 1971 , the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
Laundry Plant at the Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur, in an area in which . 
the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts : 
the said laundry from the payment of the employer s special contribution levlable 
under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect 
from the 5th August , 1971 upto and inclusive of the 4th August. 1972 . 

( File No. 601 ( 23 ) | 70 - HI ); 


का० प्रा० 30 56.-- - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 383, तारीख 13 जनवरी , 
1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार ऐसे क्षेत्र में ,जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध 


4280 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART 11 -- 


प्रवृत्त हैं , मंडिकल कालेज एण्ड अस्पताल, नागपुर में लाण्डरी प्लान्ट की अवस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - 2 के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय विशेष 
नियोजक - अभिदाय के सन्दाय से 5 अगस्त , 1971 से 4 अगस्त , 1972 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित 
है, एक और वर्ष की अवधि के लिए एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ संख्या एफ० 601 ( 23)/ 70- एच०आई० ] 
S . O . 3057. - In exercise of the powers copferred by section 737 of the Employees 
State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government having regrd 
to the location of the factory namely ; Fertilizer Corporation of India Limited , 
Nangal Unit Naya Nangal (Punjab ) in an area in which the provisions of Cha 
pters IV and V of the said Act are not in force , hereby exempts the said factory 
Proin the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
V - i of the said Act for a period of one year with cffect from the date of publica 
tion of the notification in the official Gazette . 

[ No. F . S- 38014 ( 13 ) / 71 - HI.] 
का० प्रा० 30 5 7.---- कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार फर्टीलाइजर कारपोरेशन आफ इण्डिया 
लिमिटेड, नंगल यूनिट, नया नंगल (पंजाब ) नामक कारखाने की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त 
अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय विशेष नियोजक - अभिदाय के संदाय से इस अधिसूचना 
के शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख से एक वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छुट देती है । 

[ सं० एफ० एस० - 38014 ( 13)/ 71 - एच०आई०] 
S . 0 . 3058. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government , having regard to the location of 
the factories specified in column (4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specified in column 
( 3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of Orissa in which the provision of Chapters JV and Y of 
the said Act are not in force , hereby exempts the said factories from the payment of emplovers 
special contribution leviubic under Chapter VA of the said Act for a periodj of one year from 
the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette or until the onlorcement of 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , whichever is earlicr, 

SCHEDU], E 


Serial Nameof District 


Name of Arca 


Name of the factory 


10. 


. ( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


I. Cuttack 


. 


. Jagatpur 

Jaipur • 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. Shri Durga Prasad Board and 

Industries (Private ) Limited . 
. Ferrochrome plant, (I . D . C . of 

Orissa Limited ) Post Office 
Ferrochronie Project , Jaipur 

Road . 
Barunei Power Loom Weavers 

Co - operative Society Limited , At 
Post Office Bajpur Via Khurda. 


2 


Puri . 


. 


. 


. 


hurda 


. 


. 


____ [ F. No. 602 (15). 70- HI] 
का०मा० 3058. ---कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
734 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) 
में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानो की उड़ीसा राज्य से , उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट क्षेत्रों में जिनमे 
उक्त अधिनियम से अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4281 


कारखानों को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय विशेष नियोजक अभिदाय के 
सन्दाय से इस अधिसूचना के शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशित होने की तारीख से एक वर्ष की अवधि के 
लिए या तब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में प्रवृत्त नहीं 
हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

अनुसूची 


- 


- - 


- 


. - - . . 


- - 


. . ... 


जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कारखाने का नाम 


संख्या 


___ 1 


2 


3 


XI 


1 


कटक 


जगतपुर 


श्री दुर्गा प्रसाद बोर्ड एण्ड इण्डस्ट्रीज 

( प्राइवेट ) लिमिटेड । 


जयपुर 


फेरोक्रोम प्लांट ( उडीसा का आई० डी० सी० 
लिमिटेड ) फेरोक्रोम प्रोजेक्ट , जयपुर 
रोड । 


2 पुरी 


बरुनी पावर लुम वीवर्स को - प्रोपरेटिव 

सोसायटी लिमिटेड , डाकखाना बाजपुर 
बरास्ता , मर्द । 


- 


. - 


[ संख्या फा० 602 ( 15 )/ 70- एच०प्राई ० ] 


S . O . 3059 .- -In exercise of the powers conferred by sectlon 73F of the En 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the noti 
hcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 505 , dated the 
13th January , 1971 the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
Vaccine Institute , Nagpur , in an area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and 
V of the said Act are in force , hereby exempts the said institute from the pay 
ment of the employer s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 4th September , 
1971 upto and inclusive of the 3rd September , 1972 . 

[ No. F . 601 ( 43) / 70 - HI.] 


का० प्रा० 3059. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1918 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का०मा० 505, तारीख 13 जनवरी , 1971 के 
श्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार यक्सीन इंस्टीट्यूट , नागपुर की ऐमें क्षेत्र में ,जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 
4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त इंस्टीट्यूट को उक्त अधिनियम 
के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 4 सितम्बर, 1971 
से 3 सितम्बर 1972 तक जिसमे वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए 
एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं० ..एफ . 601 ( 43)/ 70 - एच० प्राई० ] 


4282 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


S . O . 3060 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act, 194 8 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the noti 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 502 dated the 
13th January, 1971 the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
factory , namely , Sharavathy Hydro Electric Generating Station in Jog in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force , here 
by exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer s special contri 
bution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 30th August , 1971 upto and inclusive of the 29th August , 
1972 

__ [ No. F . 601/ 40/70 - HI .] 
का प्रा . "3080 - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 फ 34) की धारा 
734 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का०मा० 502 तारीख 13 जनवरी , 
1971 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार जोग स्थित श्रावती हाइड्रो इलेक्ट्रिफ जेनेरेटिंग स्टेशन नामक 
कारखाने कीऐसी क्षेत्र में ; जिसमें उक्स अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त है, अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उग्राहणीम विशेष 
नियोजक अभिदाय के सन्दाय से 30 अगस्त, 1971 से 29 अगस्त , 1972 तक जिसमें वह दिन 
भी सम्मिलिभ है , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्द्वारा छुट देती है । । 


[ संख्या फा० 601 ( 40 ) 70- एम०पाई० ] 
S . 0 . 3061 - In exercise of th v er: conferred by gecticn 73r of the 
Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 (3401 1148 ), the Central Government , having regard to 
the location of the factories specified in column( 4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed in areas specificd 
in column (3 ) of the said Schedule in the State of Andhra Pradesh in which the provisions of 
Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not in force , hereby exempte the said factories from the pay 
ment of employers special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act fora period of 
one year from the date of publication of this notification in the Official Gazette or until the enforc¢ - - 
ment ofprovisions of Chapter V of the said Act in those areas , whichevcris carlier . 

SCHEDULE 


Serial Name ol District 

NO. 


Name of Arca 


Name of the factory 


( 3 ) 


1 . Medak 


Patancheru 


I . Messrs National Metal Industries , 
2 . Messrs Polyam Packages ( Private) 

Limited . 
3. Messrs Stronghold Industries . 
4 . Messrs Şaslar Mellcables Private Limited 


2 . Visakhapatnam 


Sileru 


Messrs Workshop and Heavy Earth Moving 

Machinery. 


[ No . F. 6/ 19 / 69 - HI ] 

DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 
का०मा० 3061. - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 4 ) 
में विनिर्दिष्ट कारखानों की आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में , उक्त अन सूची के स्तम्भ ( 3 ) में विनिर्दिष्ट क्षेत्रों में , 
जिनमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते 
हुए उक्त कारखानों को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उदग्राहणीय विशेष नियोजक 
अभिदाय के सन्दाय से इस अधिसूचना के शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशित होने की तारीख से एक वर्ष की 
अवधि के लिए या सब तक के लिए जब तक कि उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपबन्ध उन क्षेत्रों में 
प्रवृत्त नहीं हो जाते , जो भी पहले हो , एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 


Sec. 3( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21. 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 1283 


- - - . . 


अनुसूची 


- 


- - 


जिले का नाम 


क्षेत्र का नाम 


कम 
संख्या 


कारखाने का नाम 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


___ 1. 


मेदक 


पातानचेर 


1. मेसर्स नेशनल मेटल इण्डस्ट्रीज । 
2 मेसर्स पोलयाम पेकेज प्राइवेट 

लिमिटेड । 
3. मेसर्स स्ट्रोंगहोल्ड इंडस्ट्रीज । 
4. मेसर्स सामलर मेलियबल्स प्राइवेट 

लिमिटेड । 


2. 


विशाखापत्तनम सिलेस 


और हैवी अर्थ मूविंग 


मेसर्स वर्कशाप 
मशीनरी । 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - - - -- 


- 


[ सं० फा० 6/ 19/ 69-एच० अई. ] 

दलजीत सिंह , अवर सचित्र । 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 
S . Q . 3062, - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 15 of the Contract Labour ( Regula 
tion and Abolition ) Act , 1970 ( 37 of 1970 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates the officers 
inentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule below to be appellate officers for the areas specified respec 
tively against them in the corresponding entries in column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Sl . 


Officers 


Area 


No. 
- -- 


( 3 ) 


- - 
I, Regional Labour Commissioner (Centrel), The States of Rajasthan and Gujrat . 

Ajmer . 
2. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central), Civil Districts of Burdwan , Bankura , Bir 
Asansol. 

bhum and Purulia in West Bengal. 
3. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central), The State of Origna . 

Bhubaneswar , 


4 . Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The State of Maharashtra and Union Terri 
Bombay . 

tories of Goa , Daman and Diu , Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli, 


4284 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II 


5. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central) , The States of West Bengal (excluding the 
Calcutta. 

Civil Districts of Burdwan , Ba nkura , 
Birbhum and Purulia ), Assam , Maghalaya , 
Nagaland and Union Territorice of Mani 
pur, Tripura and Andaman and Nicobar 

Islands and the NEFA. 
6. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ), The State of Bihar . 

Dhanbad . 


7. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ), The States of Andhra Pradesh and Mysore . 

Hyderabad. 
8. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ), The State of Madhya Pradesh. 

Jabalpur . 
9. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), The States of Uttar Pradesh , Punjab , Hima 
Kanpur . 

chal Pradesh , Haryana Jammu & 
Kushmir and the Union terrotrics of 

Chandigarh and Delhi, 
ro. Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central), The States of Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the 
Madras. 

Union territories of Pondicherry , Laccadive , 
Minicoy and Amindivi Islands . 


[ No. M. 18011( 4)/ 7t .LW.I./I/ Cont./III] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई, 1971 
सा० कानि03062.-- - संविद श्रमिक (विनियमन और उत्सादन ) अधिनियम , 1970 
( 1970 का 37 ) की धारा 15 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् द्वारा 
नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में वर्णित अधिकारियों को क्रमशः उनके सामने उक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ 
( 3 ) में तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टियों में विनिविष्ट क्षेत्रों के लिए अपील अधिकारी नामनिर्दिष्ट करती है । 


अनुसूची 


क्रम सं० 


अधिकारी 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


1. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय) , अजमेर . राजस्थान और गुजरात राज्य । 
2. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , प्रासनसोल . पश्चिमी बंगाल में बर्दवान, बांकुड़ा, बीरभूम 

और पुरुलिया के सिविल जिले । 
3. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), भुवनेश्वर . उड़ीसा राज्य । 
4. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय),मुंबई । . महाराष्ट्र राज्य तथा गोवा , दमण और दीव, 

दादर और नागर हवेली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 


. 


Sec , 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4285 


- 


- 


- 


- 


( 3 ) 


( 1 ) 

( 2) 
5. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय) , कलकत्ता ( बर्दवान, बांकुड़ा, वीरभूम और पुरुलिया के 

सिविल जिलों को छोड़कर ) पश्चिमी 
बंगाल , असम और नागालैंड राज्य तथा 
मनीपुर , त्रिपुरा और अंडमान और 
निकोबार द्वीप समूह संघ राज्य क्षेत्र तथा 

उत्तर-पूर्वी सीमा अभिकरण ( नेफा ) । 
6 . प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद . बिहार राज्य । 
7 . प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , हैदराबाद . आन्ध्र प्रदेश और मसूर राज्य । 
8. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , जबलपुर . मध्य प्रदेश राज्य । 
9. प्रादेशिक श्रम श्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कानपुर . उत्तर प्रदेश, पंजाब, हरियाणा और हिमाचल 

प्रदेश राज्य तथा चंडीगढ़ और दिल्ली 

संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 
10. प्रादेशिक श्रम मायक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मद्रास तमिलनाडु और केरल राज्य तथा पांडिचेरी , 

लक्कादीव , मिनीकोय और अमीनदीवी 
द्वीप समूह संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 


- 


[ सं० एम० 180 1 1 ( 4 ) / 71. -एल ० डब्ल पाई - 1/ कान्ट/ III ] 


S . O . 3063 - [ n exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( I ) of Rection 
28 of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition ) Act, 1970 ( 37 of 1970 ), the Central Go 
vernment hereby appoints the officers mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule below to he 
inspectors who shall exercise the powers conferred on inspectors hy or under the said Act 
within the local limits of their respective jurisdiction specified in the corresponding entries in 
column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


Officers 


S . No. 

( 1 ) 


Local Limits 

( 3 ) 


I . 


5 . 


Regional Labour Commissioners ( Central), 7 

New Delhi. 
Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Central ), ( Whole of India , 

New Delhi. 
Labour Enforcement Officers ( Central) , 

New Delhi. 
Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central), The State of Maharashtra and the Union 
__ _ Bombay . 

territories of Goa, Daman and Diu , 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 

( Central ), in the Bombay Region . 
All Labour Enforcement Officers ( Central ) 

in the Bombay Region . 
Regional Librar Commissioner ( Central ), ] The States of West Bengal ( excluding 
Calcutta . 

the Civil Districts of Burdwan, Birbhum, 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners I Bankura and Purulia ) ; Assam, Megha.. 
(Central) ip the Calcutta Region . 

Jaya and Nagaland and the Union Terri. 
All Labour Enforcement Officers ( Central ) | tories of Manipur , Tripura and Anda 
in the Calcutta Reg on . 

man Nicobar Islands and the NETA , 


7 . 


9. 


4286 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part 11 -- 


10 . Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ) 

Madras. 
II. All Arsistant Labour Commissioners (Cen 
tral ) in the Madras Region , 

Ť The States of Tamil Nadu , Kerala and 
All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) the Union Territories of Pondicherry , 
in the Madras Region , 

Laccadive , Minicoy and Aminidevi 

Islands , 
13. Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ) ) 

Jabalpu . 
14 . All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen 

tral) in tbe Jabalpur Region . 
All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 
In the Jabalpur Region . 

✓ The State of Madhya Pradesh . 
All Junior Labour Inspectors ( Central) 

in the Jabalpur Region . 
17 . Labour Enforcement Officer ( Central) 

Jhansi. 


Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central) ) 
Kanpur . 

1 The States of Uttar Pradesh , Punjab , 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen - Horyana , Jammu and Kashmir and 
tral) in the Kanpur Region . 

Himachal Pradesh and the Union 
All Labour Enforcement Officer s ( Central) Territorles of Delhi and Chandigarh . 

in the Kanpur Region . 
All Junior Labour Inspectors ( Central) in 

the Kanpur Region . 


20 


21. 


22. 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) ) 

Dhanbad . 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen 

tral) in the Dhanbad Region . 
All Labour Enforcement Officers ( Central ) 

in the Dhanbad Region . 
All Junior Labour Inspectors ( Central) 

in the Dhanbad Region , 


The State of Bihar. 


25 . 


26 . 
27 . 


28 . 


Regional Labour Commissioner (Central ) 

Hyderabad 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen 
tral) in the Hyderabad Region 

| The States of Mysore and Andhra Pradesh . 
All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 

in the Hyderabad Region . 
All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) in 

the Hyderabad Region . 


30 . 


31. 


Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) 

Ajmer . 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen - 1 
tral) in the Ajmer Region . 

( The States of Rajasthan and Gujarat, 
All Labour Enforcement Officers ( Central) 

in the Ajmer Region . 
Labour Enforcement Officer ( Central ) 

Ratlam , 


34 . 


The Civil Districts of Burdwan , Birbhum , 

Rankura and Purulia in the State 
of West Bengal. 


Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central) ) 

Asansol. 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners (Cen 

tral) in the Aganeol Region . 
All Labour Enforcement Officers (Central) 

in the Asansol Region , 
All Junior Labour Inspectors (Central) , in 

the Asansol Region . 


37 . 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4287 


38. 


39, 


Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) ] 

Bhubaneswar . 
All Assistant Labour Commissioners ( Cen - | 
___ tral ) in Bhubaneswar Region. 

( The State of Orissa. 
All Labour Enforcement , Officer ( Central ) 

in Bhubaneswar Region . 


40 


[ No M -IROII (4)7I - LWI.I / Cont. IV] 


सा०का नि० 3063. - - संविद श्रमिक (विनियमन और उत्सादन ) अधिनियम , 1970 
( 1970 का 37 ) की धारा 28 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में णित अधिकारियों को निरीक्षक नियुक्त 
करती है, जो उक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 3 ) की तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टियों में विनिर्दिष्ट अपनी -अपनी अधि 
कारिता की स्थानीय सीमाओं के भीतर उक्त अधिनियम के द्वारा या उसके अधीन निरीक्षकों को 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे । 


अनुसूची 


क्रम सं० 


अधिकारी 


स्थानीय सीमाएं 


2 


1 . प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , नई दिल्ली । ) 
2. सहायक श्रमक प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , नई दिल्ली । 
3. श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( केन्द्रीय ) , नई दिल्ली । । 


समस्त भारत । 


4. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मंबई । महाराष्ट्र राज्य तथा गोवा , दमण और 
5. मबई प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त । दीव , दादर और नराग हवेली संघ 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

राज्यक्षेत्र । 
6. मंबई प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
7. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कलकत्ता । । ( बर्दवान , वीरभूम , बांकुडा और पुरुलिया 
8. कलकत्ता प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त । के जिलों को छोड़ कर ) पश्चिमी 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

बंगाल , असम , मेघालय और नागालैंड 
9. कलकत्ता प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी राज्य और मनीपुर, त्रिपुरा और अंडमान 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

निकोबार द्वीप समूह संघ राज्यक्षेत्र तथा 

उत्तर पूर्वी सीमा अभिकरण ( नेफा ) । 
10. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मद्रास । 
11. मद्रास प्रतेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त तमिल नाडु, केरल राज्य तथा पांडिचेरी , 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

लक्कादीव ,मिनीकोय और अमीनदीवी 
12. मद्रास प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी | द्वीपसमह संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 


4288 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II--- 


.. ... . . .. 


- ... . - - - - 


- - 


_ 
12 


- . . - - - -. 


. 


13. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , जबलपुर । 
14. जबलपुर प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम प्राय क्स 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

, मध्य प्रदेश राज्य । 
15. जबलपुर प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
16. जबलपूर प्रदेश के सभी कनिष्ठ श्रम निरीक्षक 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
17. श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( केन्द्रीय ) , झांसी । 
18. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कानपुर । उत्तर प्रदेश, पंजाब, हरियाणा , जम्मू और 
19. कानपुर प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त । कश्मीर औरहिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य तथा 
( केन्द्रीय ) । 

दिल्ली और चंडीगढ़ संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
20. कानपुर प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
21. कानपुर प्रदेश के सभी कनिष्ठ श्रम निरीक्षक 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 


22. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद । । 
23. धनबाद प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
24. धनबाद प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( बिहार राज्य । 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
25. धनबाद प्रदेश के सभी कनिष्ठ श्रम निरीक्षक 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
26. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), हैदराबाद । । 
27. हैदराबाद प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयक्त 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
28. हैदराबाद प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( मैसूर और आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य । 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
29. हैदराबाद प्रदेश के सभी कनिष्ट श्रम निरीक्षक । 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 


राजस्थान और गुजरात राज्य । 


30. प्रादेशिक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , अजमेर । 
31. अजमेर प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम आयुक्त 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
32. अजमेर प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
33. श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ( केन्द्रीय ) , रतलाम । 


- 


- 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4289 


3 


पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में बर्दवान, बीरभूम , 

बांकुड़ा और पुरुलिया के जिले । 


34. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्रापक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , प्रासनसोल 
35. आसनसोल प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
36. प्रासनसोल प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
37. आसनसोल प्रदेश के सभी कनिष्ठ श्रम निरीक्षक 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
38. प्रादेशिक श्रम प्राप क्त ( केन्द्रीय ), भुवनेश्वर । 
39. भवनेश्वर प्रदेश के सभी सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 
40. भुवनेश्वर प्रदेश के सभी श्रम प्रवर्तन अधिकारी ) 

( केन्द्रीय ) । 


उड़ीसा राज्य । 


[ सं० एम० 180 11( 4 )/ 71- एल० उन्लू० आई० 1/ कान्ट / 4 ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 
s . o . 3064. ....Jn exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Contract Labour ( Regu 
lation) and Abolition Act , 1970 ( 37 of 1970 ), the Central Government hereby appoints the officers 
mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule below , being Gizettid Officers of Goviinment, 
to be registcring cfficers v ho shall cxcrcise the powers conferrid on registering officers by 
or under the said Act within the local li nits of their respective jurisdiction specified in the 
corresponding entrics of column ( 3 ) of the said Schedule , 

SCHEDULE 


Officers 


Local limits 


No . 


I 


Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), 

Ajmer. 


Civil districts of Ajmer , Jaipur, Bhilwara 
Sikar , Jhunjhunu , Churu, Ganganagar 
Bikaner , Nagaur , Jodhpur , Jaisalmer 
Alwar and Pall in the State of Rajasthan , 


2 Asstant Labour Commissioner ( Central ), 

Kota , 


Civil districts of Kota, Bundi, Sawaimadho 
pur, Tonk , Bharatpur , Jhalawat , Chittor 
garh , Udaipur, Dingarpur and Banswara in 
the State of Rajasthan , 


3 


Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central ), Civil districts of Ahmedabad , Gandhinagar , 
Ahmedabad . 

Kaira , Baroda, Broach, Surat , Dangs , 
Meshafla , Sabarkantha, Panchmahala , 
Şurendra Nagar , Bhavnagar and Bulsar in 
the State of Gujarat, 


- 


- 


- 


429 
- - - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART 1] 
- 

- 

* . 


4 Assistant Labour Cominissioner (Central), Civil districts of Banaskantha, Kutch , Rajkot , 
Kandla , 

Amreli, Jamnagar and Junagarh in the State 
of Gujarat and the civil districts of 
Şirhi Barmer and Jallore in the State of 
Rajasthan , 


5 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Centrol), ) Anangol Sub - Division of Burdwan District 
Asansol- 1. 

and civil district of Purulia in thc State 
© Aqsistant Labour Commissioner (Central), ) of West Brngel . 

As. ngol - II 
7 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil district of Burdwan excluding Asansol 
Raniganj - I. 

Sub - Division and civil district of Bankura 
8 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), and Birbhum in the State of West 
Raniganj- II. 

Bengal. 
Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Puri, Cuttack , Dhenkanal, 
Bhubaneshwar , 

Ganja [m , Balasore , Koraput , Kalahandi, 
Bolangir and Baudh -Khondmals in the 
State of Orissa . 


IO Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Keonjhar , Mayurbhanj, 
Rourkela . 

Sainbalpur and Sundargarh in the State of 
Orissa . 


II Assistant Libour Comm ]88001 er (Central) Civil districts of Greater Bombay , Thap , 
Bombay - I . 

I Dhulia , Nasik , Kolaba , Poona, Ahmed 

nagar , Sholapur, Satara , Osmanabad 
12 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Sengli , Jalgaon , Aurangabad , Parbhani , 
Bombay - II . 

Nandee Bhir ,Akola , Buldana and Raipura 
in the State ofMahrashtra and the Union 
Territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 


13 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Civil districts of Negpur,Charda Wardha 
Nagpur . 

Amravati, Yeotmal and Bhandara in the 
State of Maharashtra . 


14 Assitant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Union territory of Goa , Daman and Diu and 
Sambhaji. 

Civil districts of Ratnggiri ard Kohlapur 

in the State of Maharashtra , 
Is Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), ) Civil districts of Calcutta, Howrah , Hooghlyi 
Calcutta - I . 

24 Parganas, Midnapur , Murshidabad . 

Nidia , Milda , West Dinajpur, Jalpaigur 
1sistant Labour Coinnissioner ( Contral ), Darjeeling and Cooch Beharlothe State of 
Calcutta - II . 

West Bengal and the Union territory of 

Andamgo and Nicobar Islands. 
17 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), I 

Calcutta - III . 


1 } Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), All civil districts in the States of Assam , 
Gauhati. 

Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union terri 
torics of Manipur and Tripura and the 
North East Frontier Agency . 


19) Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Dhanbad - I. 


2 ) Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Dhanbad - II. 


21. Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), 

Dhanbad - 111. 


Civil districts of Dhanbad in the State of 

Bihar . 


22 Assistant Labour Comınissioner (Central), 

Dhanbad - TV . 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 20, 1893 4291 


. . " - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


23 Aizistant Labour Connissioner (Central), Civil districts of Hazaribagh , Palamau and 
Hazıribhagh. 

Ranchi in the State of Bihar . 


24 Assistant Labour Cominissioner (Central) Civil districts of Paina, Shahabad , Gaya , 
Patna. 

Katihar, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga , Moti 
hiri , Saharsa , Saran , Monghyr , Purnca , 
Bhagalpur and Santhal Parganas in the 
State of Bihar, 


25 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil district of Singhbhum in the State of 
Chaibasa. 

Bihar , 


26 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 

Hyderabad - ) . 
27 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central ) 

Hyderabad - II. 


Civil districts of Gulbarga and Bihar in the 

State of Mysore and the civil districts 
of Hyderabad , Nizamabad , Nalgonda , 
Mahbubnagar , Medak , Karimnagar, 
Adilabad , Warangal and Kurnool in the 
State of Andhra Pradesh . 


28 Agsistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Civil districts of Krishna , West Godavari 
Vijayawada . 

Guntur, Ongole , Nellore and Khammam 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh . 


29 Aggistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Visakhapatnam , Srikakulam 
Visakbapatnam . 

and East Godavari in the State of Andhra 
Pradesh . 


30 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central) , Civil districts of Bangalore , Kolar , Mysore 
Bangalore . 

Mandya, Tumkur, Coorg , Hasan , Shimoga, 
South Kanare , Chitradurga and Chickman 
gulur in the State of Mysore and Chittor 
district in the State of Andhra Pradesh . 


31 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), 

Bellary . 


Çivil districts of Bellary , North Kanara , 
Raichur , Bijapur , Dharwar and Belgaum 
in the State of Mysore and Anantpur and 
Cuddapah in the State of Andhra Pradesh . 


32 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Jabalpur, Damoh , Saugor , 
Jabalpur. 

Chatarpur, Tikamgarh , Satna, Panna and 
Narasimhapur in the State of Madhya 
Pradesh . 


33 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Bilaspur, Raipur, Durg , Bastar 
Raipur. 

and Raigarh in the State of Madhya 
Pradesh , 


34 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Çivil districts of Chhindwara , Betul, Seoni, 
Chhindwara . 

Balaghat and Mandla in the State of Madhya 
Pradesh . 


35 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central) 

Shahdol. 


Civil districts of Shahdol, Sarguła , Sidhi 
and Rewa in the State ofMadhya Pradesh , 


36 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Sehore , Ratlam , Mandsaur, 
Bhopal 

Jhabua , Ujjain , Dhar, Raisen , Shivpuri, 
Datia , Vidisha, Guna, Shajapur , Rajgarh , 
East Nimar, West Nimar, Hoshangabad , 
Bhind , Morena, Gwalior , Iudore and 
Dewas in the State of Madhya Pradesb . 


4292 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II — 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


, 


- 


AVT 


37 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), Civil districts of Kanpur, Lucknow , Etawah , 
Kanpur. 

Mainpuri, Thanni, Hamirpur, Banda , 
Jalaun , Gorakhpur, Gonda , Deoria , Babar 
aich , Azamgarh , Ballia , Basti, Ghazipur, 
Barabanki, Raebareli, Unnao , Sitapur , 
Hardoi, Pratapgarh , Allahabad , Mirza 
pur, Varanasi, Jaunpur, Faizabad , 
Sultanpur , Fatehpur and Farrukhabad in 
the State of Uttar Pradesh . 


38 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Civil Districts of Agra , Mathura, Aligarh , 
Delhi. 

Meerut , Muzaffarnagar , Bulandshahar , 
and Şaharanpur in the State of Uttar 
Pradesh and civil districts of Rohtak , 
Gurgaon and Mahindergarh in the State of 
Haryana and Union Territory of Delhi. 


39 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , All civil districts in the States of Punjab , Jamnu 
Chandigarh . 

and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh and 
all civil districts excepting civil districts of 
Rohtak , Gurgaon and Mahindergarh in tho , 
State of Haryana and theUnion territory of 
Chandigarh . 


47 Assistant Libur Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Bariclly , Nainltal , Almora , 
Barielly , 

Dehradun , Bijnor , Uttar Kashi, Tehri 
Garhwal, Garhwal, Chamoli, Pithoragarh , 
Badauni Etah , Kheri, Moradabad , Pilibhit 
Rampur and Shahjahanpur in the State 
of Uttar Pradosh . 


41 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), All civil districts in the state of Tamil 
Madra9 - I. 

Nadu and Union territory of Pondicherry . 


42 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Madras II . 


43 Assistant Labour Com nissioner (Central) , All civil districts in the State of Kerala and 
Ernakulam . 

the Union territorics of Laccadive , Minicoy 
and Amindivi Islands, 


[No. M / 18011(4 )/ 71 -LWI(I)Con . I] 


मावेश 


facott 


21 mars , 1971 


HTOHTO FATO 3061. - 27 74 ( faftha te 584TG ) gruforth , ( 1970 
( 1970 का 37 ) की धारा 6 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में वणित अधिकारियों को , जो सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी हैं , 
रजिस्ट्रीकर्ता अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है , जो उक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 3 ) की तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टियों 
में विनिर्दिष्ट अपनी - अपनी अधिकारिता की स्थानीय सीमानों के भीतर उक्त अधिनियम के द्वारा या 
उमके अधीन रजिस्ट्रीकर्ता अधिकारियों को प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे । 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4293 


- 


- - 


- -- 


- . . 


. - - 


- 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


कम संख्या 


अधिकारी 


स्थानीय सीमाएं 


( 3 ) 


- - - - - 


- - - -. - - . - . - - - - - 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


1. महायक श्रम अायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), अजमेर राजस्थान राज्य में अजमेर, जयपुर, भिलवाडा, 

सीकर , झुंझन , चूर , गंगानगर , बीकानेर , 
नागौर, जोधपुर , जैसलमेर , अलवर और पाली 

के सिविल जिले । 
. सहायक श्रम अायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), कोटा राजस्थान राज्य में कोटा , बूंदी, सवाईमाधोपुर, 

टॉफ , भरतपुर, झालावाड़ , चित्तौड़गढ़ , उद य 
पुर , डूंगरपुर और बांसवासा के सिविल जिले । 


3. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त 

अहमदाबाद । 


( केन्द्रीय ) , गुजरात राज्य में अहमदाबाद , गांधीनगर , कैरा , 

बड़ौदा , बरोच , सूरत , गंग्स , महसाना , 
सबरकन्था पंचमहल , सुरेन्द्र नगर, भावनगर 
और बलसर के सिविल जिले । 


4. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कांडला । गुजरात राज्य में बनसकन्था , कूच , राजकोट , 

अमरेली, जामनगर और जूनागढ़ के सिविल 
जिले तथा राजस्थान राज्य में सिरोही बारमेर 
और जैलोर का सिधिल जिला । 


5 . सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में बर्दवान जिले का 
आसनसोल - 1 

प्रासनसोल उपखंड तथा पुरलिया का सिविल 
6. सहायक श्रम । आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), जिला । 

पासनसोल - 2 


7. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), ] पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में प्रासनसोल उपखण्ड को 
रानीगंज - 1 

छोड़कर बर्दवान का सिविल जिला तथा 
8. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बांकुडा और बीरभूम के सिविल जिले । 

रानीगंज - 2 
9. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , उड़ीसा राज्य में पूरी , कटक , धेनकानल , गंजम , 
भुवनेश्वर । 

बलसोर कोरापुट , कालाहान्छी , बोलनगीर 
और बौधखाउमलस के सिविल जिले । 


10. सहायक श्रम मायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , राउरकेला उड़ीसा राज्य में क्योंझर, मयूरभंज, सम्बलपुर 

और सुन्दरगढ़ के सिविल जिले । 


4294 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


11. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), मुंबई - 1 ] महाराष्ट्र राज्य में वृहत् मुंबई, थाना , धुलिया , 
12. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ),मुंबई - 2 नासिक, कोलाबा, पूना , अहमदनगर, शोलापुर , 

सतारा, उसमानाबाद, सांगली , जलगांव , 

औरंगाबाद , परभनी , नंदेड , भीर , अकोला , 
बुलदाना और राजूर के सिविल जिले तथा 

दादर और नागर हवेली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
13. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), नागपुर महाराष्ट्र राज्य में नागपुर , चांदा ,वर्धा, प्ररावती, 

योतमल और भांदरा के सिविल जिले । 
14. सहायक श्रम अायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , संभाजी गोवा , दमण और दीव संघ राज्य क्षेत्र तथा 

महाराष्ट्र राज्य में रतनगिरि और कोल्हापुर 

के सिविल जिले । 
15. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में कलकत्ता, हावड़ा , 
कलकत्ता -- 1 

हुगली , 24 परगना , मिदनापुर, मुरशिदाबाद , 
16. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , नदिया , माल्दा, पश्चिमी दिनाजपुर, जलपाई 
कलकत्ता - 2 

गुड़ी, दार्जलिंग और कूचबिहार के सिविल 
17. सहायक श्रम अायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), ! जिले तथा अंडमान और निकोबार द्वीप समूह 
कलकत्ता - 3 

संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
18. साहयक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , गोहाटी आसाम , नागालैंड और मेघालय राज्यों के सभी 

सिविल जिले तथा मनीपुर और त्रिपुरा संघ 
राज्य क्षेत्र तथा उत्तर-पूर्वी सीमा अभिकरण 

( नेफा ) 
19. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद- 11 
20. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद- 2 | बिहार राज्य में धनबाद का सिधिल जिल । 
21. सहायक श्रम प्रायक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद- 3 
22. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद- 4 
23. सहायक श्रम प्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ), हजारीबाग बिहार राज्य में हजारी बाग, पलामू और रांची 

के सिविल जिले । 
24. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , पटना बिहार राज्य में पटना , शाहबाद , गया , कटिहार, 

मुजफरपुर , दरभंगा , मोतिहारी , सहरसा , 
सारन , मुंगेर , पुनिया , भागलपुर और सन्थाल 

परगना के सिविल जिले । 
25. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), चाईबासा बिहार राज्य में सिंह भूमि का सिविल जिला । 
26. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मसुर राज्य में गुलबर्ग और बिहार के तथा आन्ध्र 
हैदराबाद - 1 

प्रदेश राज्य में हैदराबाद , निजामाबाद , 
न नागालैंड, महबूबनगर, मेदक , करीमनगर, 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4295 


- 


- 


27. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) । 

हैदराबाद - 2 


आदिलाबाद , बारगल और कुर्नल के सिविल 
जिले । 


28. सायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , 

बिजयवाडा 


आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में कृष्णा , पश्चिमी गोदावरी , 
गंटर , प्रोंगोर, नेल्लोर, और खम्मम के सिविल 
जिले । 


29. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , 

विशाखापटणम 


प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में विशाखापटणम , श्रीकाकुलम 

और पूर्वी गोदावरी के सिविल जिले । 


30. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बंगलौर मैस र राज्य में बंगलौर, कोलार , मैमूर , मड़या , 

टुकुर , कुर्ग, हसन , शिमोगा, दक्षिणी कनारा, 
चित्रदुर्ग , और चिकमंगलूर के सिविल जिले 
तथा आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य मे चित्तूरजिला । 


31. सहायक श्रम प्राप क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बेल्लारी 


मैसूर राज्य मे बेल्लारी, उत्तरी कनारा , रायचुर , 
बीजापूर , धारवाड और बेलगांव के और 
आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में अनन्तपुर और कड़पा के 
सिविल जिले । 


32. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , जबलपुर 


मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में जबलपुर , दमोह, सौगौर 

छत्तरपुर , टीकमगढ़, सतना , पन्ना, और नर , 
सिहपुर के सिविल जिले । 


33. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , रायपुर मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में विलासहपुर , रायपुर, दुर्ग , 

बस्तर और रायगढ़ के सिविल जिले । 


34. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , 

छिन्दवाड़ा 


मध्य प्रदेश राज्य मे छिन्दवाड़ा, बेतुल , शिवनी , 
बालघाट और मंडला के सिविल जिले । 


35. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त (केन्द्रीय ) , शहदोल मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में शहदोल , सरगुजा, सिद्धि 

और रेवा के सिविल जिले । 


36. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , भोपाल 


मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में सेहोर, रतलाम, मदसौर , 

झाबुआ, उज्जैन , धार, रायसेन , शिवपुरी, 
दतिया , विदिशा, गुना , शहजपुर, राजगढ़ , 
पूर्वी निमार, पश्चिमी निमार, होशंगाबाद , 
भिड, मुरैना , ग्वालियर, इन्दौर और देवास 
के सिविल जिले । 


4296 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PARr ]I - 


% 


37. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कानपुर उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य मे कानपुर , लखनऊ, इटावा , 

मैनपुरी , झांसी , हमीरपुर, बान्दा, जालौन , 
गोरखपुर, गोंडा , देवरिया , बहराइच , प्राजम 
गढ़ , बलिया , बस्ती , गाजीपुर, बाराबंकी , 
रायबरेली, उन्नाव , सीतापुर , हरदोई, 
प्रतापगढ़ , इलाहाबाद , मिर्जापुर , वाराणसी , 
जौनपुर, फैजाबाद , सुलतानपुर , फतेहपुर , 
और फर्रुखाबाद के सिविल जिले । 


38. सहायक श्रम प्रायम्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , दिल्ली 


उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य में प्रागरा, अलीगढ़ , मथरा, 
मेरठ ,मुजफ्फरनगर, बुलन्दशहर और सहारन 
पर के सिविल जिले तथा हरियाणा राज्य में 

रोहतक , गुडगांवां , और महेन्द्रगढ़ के सिविल 
जिले तथा दिल्ली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 


39. सहायक श्रम प्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , चष्टीगढ़ पंजाब, जम्मू और काश्मीर और हिमाचल प्रदेश 

राज्यों के सभी सिविल जिले तथा रोहतक , 
गड़गावा और महेन्द्रगढ़ को छोड कर हरियाणा 
राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा चंडीगढ़ 
सघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 


40. सहायक श्रम प्राय क्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बरेली 


उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य मे बरेली , नैनीताल , अलमोडा, 

देहरादून , बिजनोर , उत्तरकाशी , टिहरी 
गढ़वाल , गढ़वाल , चमोली, पिथौरागढ़, बदाय , 
एटा, खेडी, मुरादाबाद , पीलीभीत , रामपुर , 
और शाहजहापुर के सभी सिविल जिले । 


41. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मद्रास -11 तमिलनाडु राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा 

पांडिचेरी संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
42. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), मद्रास - 11 ) 
43. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , केरल राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा 
एर्नाकुलम । 

लक्कादीव, मिनीकोय और अमीनटीवी द्वीप 
समह संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 


[सं० एम०/ 18011 ( 4)/ 71--एल डब्ल्यू ० आई० - 1 /कांट / 1] 


SEC. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 20 , 893 4297 


9 . 0 . 3065. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section II of the Contract Labour (Regula 
tion and Abolition ) Act , 1970 37 of 1970 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the offices 
mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Schedule below , being Gazetted Officers of Government, to 
be licensing officers who shall excrcise the powers conferred on licensing officers by or under 
the said Act within the local limits of their respective jurisdiction specified in the 
corresponding entri , in column ( 3 ) lof the said Schedule. 


SCHEDULE 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


Serial 
No . 


Officers 


Local limits 


- - - 


I Asaistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Ajmer Juifur . Bhilwara , 
Ajmer , 

Sikar, Jhunjhuna, Churu , Ganganagar , 
Bikaner , Nagour, Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, 
Alwar and Pall in the State of Rajatshan , 


2 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil district ofKota , Bundl, Sawaimadhopur , 
Kota. 

Tonk , Bharatpur , Jhalawer , Chittorgarh , 
Udaipur, Dungarpur and Banswra in the 
State of Rajasthan . 


3 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 

Ahmedabad 


Civil districts of Ahmedabad , Gandhinagar 
Kaira , Baroda , Broach , Surat , Dung 
Mehsana , Sabarkantha, Panchmahales 
Surendra Nagar, Bhavnagar, Bulsor in the 
State of Gujarat . 


+ Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Civil districts of Banaskantha, Kutch , Rajkot 
Kandla , 

Amreli , Jamnagar and Junagarh in the 
State of Gujerat and the civil district of 
Sirobi Barmar and Jallore in the Starc 
of Rajasthan . 


5 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , ASApro ] Sub - Division of burdver Districi 
Abanol- ). 

and clvil district of Purulia in the State 

of West Bengal. 
6 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), 1 

Asanga - II . 


7 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Civil district of Burdwan excluding Are : 0 
Raniganj- I. 

Sub -Division and civil districts ofBenkure 

and Birbhum in the State of Weste 
8 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), 1 Bengal. 

Ranigani- II. 
9 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Civil districts of Puri, Cuttack , Dhenkanal , 
Bhubaneshwar . 

Ganjam , Balasore , Koraput, Kalahand , 
Bolangir and Baudh -Kbordmals in the 

State of Origa. 
Io Assistent Labour Commissioner ( Central) , Civil districte of Kconjbar , Mayurbhapj, 
Rourkela , 

Sambalpur apd Sundergarh in the State of 
Orissa, 


JI Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), ) Civil districts of Greater Bombey, Thena , 
Bombay - J . 

1 Dhulia , Nasik , Kolaba , Poona, Ahmed 
12 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Dagar, Sholopur, Setora , Qemanebad , 
Bombay - II. 

Sangli, Jalgaon , Aurangebod , Parbhani 
Nonded , Bhir , Akola , Buldana and Rajura 
in the State of Mahørøshtra ond ihe 
Union Terțitories of Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli. 


4298 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART 11. 


LE 


13 Aristapt Labour Commissioner (Central ), Civil districts of Nøgpur, Chanda, Wardhe , 
Nagpur. 

Amravati, Yentmal odd Bhandara in the 
State of Maharashtro . 


14 Assistant Lahour Commissioner (Central) , Union territory of Goe, Damon and Diu 
Sambbaji. 

and Civildistricts ofRatnagiri and Kolbepur 
in the State of Marhasthra . 


I5 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), ) Civil districte of Calcutta , Howrph . Hooghly , 
Calcutta - 1. 

24 Parganas , Midnapur, Mursbidabod , 

Nadia , Melda ,West Dipajpur, Jolppiguri, 
16 Assistant 1, 9bour Commissioner (Central) , Darjeeling and Coochbeher in the 
Calcutta - II . 

State of West Bengal and the Union 

territory ofAndamon epd Nicobar Islands, 
17 Assistent Labour Commissioner ( Central ), 

Calcutta - III. 


18 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Centro)), J All civil districts in the States of Assem , Naga 
Gouhati . 

land and Meghalaya and Upion territories 
of Mønipur and Tripura and the Nortb 

East Frontier Agency , 
19 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), ) 

Dhøpbad - J . 


2 ) Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) 

Dhanbad - JI. 


1 Civil district of Dhanbad in the Støte of 
✓ Blhor , 


21 Assistent Labour Commissioner ( Central), 

Dhanbad - JII . 


22 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), 

Dhanbad - JV . 
23 Assistant Labour Commissionor (Central), Civil districts of Hazaribagh , Palamau and 
Hozaribagh . 

Rancbi in tbc State of Bibar . 
24 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Civil districts of Patna, Shahabad , Gaya , 
Patna , 

Katihar , Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga , Moti 
hari, Sabarsa, Saran , Monghyr , Purnca , 
Bhagalpur and Santhal Parganas in the 
State of Bihar. 


25 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil district of Singhbhum in the State of 
Chaibasa. 

Biber . 
26 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), ) Civil districts of Gulløsga érd Bihor in the 
Hyderabad - ]. 

State of Mysorc and the civil districts of 

Hyderabad , Nizamabad , Nelgonda , 
27 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central Mahbubnagar , Medak, Korimpagor , 
Hyderabad - ] ) . 

Adilabad , Warangal and Kurnool in the 

State of Andhra Pradesh . 
28 Assistent Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Krishna, West Godavari , 
Vijayawada, 

Guntur , Ongole , Nellore and Khammam 
in the State of Andhra Pradesh , 


29 Assistapt Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Vişakhapatnam , Srikakulam 
Visakhopatnam . 

apd East Godavari in the State of Andbre 
Pradesh . 


30 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , 

Bangalore . 


Civil districts of Bangalore , Kolar , Mysore, 
Mandyu , Tumkur , Coorg , Happn , Shimoga , 
Soutb -Konuta , Ehtradurga und Chickma. 
gulur in the State of Mysore and Chitoor 
district in the State of Andhra Predcab . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4299 


- - - 


- 


31 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Cer tral ), Civil districts of Bellary , North Kapaya , 
Bellary. 

Raichur , Bijapur , Dharwar And Belgaum 
in the State of Myxore and Anantpur and 

Cuddapah in the State ofAndhra Pradeob . 
32 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Jabalpur , Damoh , Saugos 
Jabalpur. 

Chatarpur, Tikamgarh , Satna, Panna and 
Narsimhapur in the State of Madhya 

Pradesh . 
33 Assistant Libour Commissizner ( Central). Civil districts of Bilaspur, Raipur , Durg , 
Raipur. 

Bastar and Raigarh in the State ofMadhya 

Prederb , 
34 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central ), Civil districts of Chhindwara , Betul, Sconi, 
Chhindwara . 

Baleghat and Mandloin the State ofMadhya 

Pradesh . 
35 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) , Civil districts of Shahdol, Sørguja , Sidbi 
Shahdo ). 

apd Rewa in the State ofModhya Pradesh . 
36 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), Civil districts of Schore , Ratlam ,Moodsaur 
Bhopal 

Jhabua , Ujjairo , Dhar , Ralsen , Shivpuri, 
Datia , Vidisha, Guna, Shajapur , Rafgarh 
East Nimar , West Nimar , Hoshangabad , 
Bhind , Morena . Gwalior , Indore end 
Dewas in the State of Madhya Pradesh , 


3 - Assistant Lalour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Kanpur, Lucknow , Etawah , 
Kanpur . 

Mainpuri, Jhansi, Hamirpur, Banda , Jalaun , 
Gorakhpur, Gonda, Deoria , Babereich , 
Azamgarh , Ballia , Basti, Ghazipur Bara 
Banki, Raebereli, Unpao , Sitapur, 
Hardoi , Pratapgarh , Allohebad , Mirzapur , 
Varanasi, Jaunpur , Faizabad , Sultanpur, 
Fatehpur and Farrukhabad in the State 

of Ultar Pradesh . 
38 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil Districts of Agra , Methura, Aligarh , 
Delhi. 

Mee ut, Muzaffarnagor , Bulandshahar , 
Sahuronpur in the State of Uttar Pradesh 
and civil districts of Rohtak , Gurgaop and 
Mahindergarh in the State of Haryong and 
Union Territory of Delhi. 


30 Agdistant Labour Commissioner (Central), All civil dietricts in the States of Punjab , 
Chandigarh . 

Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh 
and all civil districts excepting civil din 
tricts of Rohtak , Gurgaon and Mabird ) - 
garh in the State of Haryana and the Univ 

territory of Chandigarh . 
49 Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central), Civil districts of Barielly , Nainital, finale 
Barcilly . 

Dehradun , Bijnor , Uitar Kashi, Taxi 
Garhwal, Garhwal, Chamoli, Pitborigail 
Badaun , Etah , Kheri, Moradabad , Pulitbit 
Rampur and Shabjohanpur in the State 
of Uttar Pradesh , 


41 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central), ) All civil districts in the State of Iymir 
Modras - J . 

( Nadu and Upion territory of Pondicherry , 
42 Assistant Labour Commissioner ( Central ), ) 

Madras II . 


- 


- 


- 


4320 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II . 


354 


43 Assistent Labour Commissioner (Central), All civil districts in the State of Kerala ond 
Ernakulam . 

the Union territories of Laccadiye , 
Minicoy and Amindiyi Iblanda . 


[ No. M. I80II( 4)/ 7I -LWI ( I) Con / II) ] 

( K . D . HAJELA, Under Secv . 


सा० का० नि 3065..-- असंविद् श्रमिक ( विनियमन और उत्पादन ) अधिनियम 1970 
( 1970 का 37 ) की धारा 11 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एद्वारा 
नीचे की अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 2 ) में वर्णित अधिकारियों को जो सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी हैं 
अनुज्ञापन अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है, जो उक्त अनुसूची के स्तंभ ( 3 ) की तत्स्थानी प्रविष्टियों 
में विनिर्दिष्ट अपनी- अपनी अधिकारिता की स्थानीय सीमानों के भीतर उक्त अधिनियम के द्वारा 
या उसके अधीन अनुज्ञापन अधिकारियों को प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करेंगे । 


अनुसूची 


कम संख्या 


स्थानीय सीमाएं 


अधिकारी 

( 2) 


( 3 ) 


1. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , अजमेर राजस्थान राज्य में अजमेर , जयपुर , भिलवाड़ा , 

सीकर , झुंझुनू , धूरु, गंगानगर , बीकानेर , 
नागीर , जोधपुर , जैसलमेर , अलवर और 

पाली के सिविल जिले । । 
2. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), कोटा । राजस्थान राज्य में कोटा, बूंदी, सवाईमाधोपुर, 

टोंक , भरतपुर , झालावाड़, चित्तौडगढ़ , उदय 

पुर, डूगरपुर और बांसवाडा के सिविल जिले । 
3. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , गुजरात राज्य में अहमदाबाद , गांधीनगर , केरा, 
अहमदाबाद । 

बड़ीदा , बरोच, सूरत , डॉग्स , महसाना , 
सबरकन्या , पंचमहल , सुरेन्द्रनगर, भावनगर 

और बलसर के सिविल जिले । 
4. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कांडला । गुजरात राज्य में बनसकन्था , कूच, राजकोट , 

अमरेली , जामनगर और जूनागढ़ के सिविल 
जिले तथा राजस्थान राज्य में सिरोही बारमेर 

और जैलोर का सिविल जिला । 
5 . सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , 7 पश्चिमी-बंगाल राज्य में बर्दवान जिले का 
आसनसोल - 1 

प्रासनसोल उपखंड तथा पुरलिया का सिविल 
6. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , जिला । 

आसनसोल - 2 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4301 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


- 
- 
- 


- 
- 
- 


7. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , ] पश्चिमी- बंगाल राज्य में प्रासनसोल उपखण्ड को 
रानीगंज - 1 

छोड़कर बर्ववान का सिविल जिला तथा 
8. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), बांकुडा और बीरभूम के सिविल जिले । 

रानीगंज - 2 
9 , सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , उड़ीसा राज्य में पुरी, कटक , धेनकानल , गंजम , 
भवनेश्वर । 

बलसोर, कोरापुट , कालाहान्डी , बोलनगीर 

और बौधखोंडमल्स के सिविल जिले । 
10. सहायक या प्रास्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , राउरकेला । उड़ीसा राज्य में क्योंझर, मयूरभंज, सम्बलपुर 

और सुन्दरगढ़ के सिविल जिले । 
11. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) मुंबई- 1 महाराष्ट्र राज्य में वृहत् मुंबई, थाना , धुलिया , 
12. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) मुंबई - 2 } नासिक , कोलाया , पूना, अहमदनगर, शोलापुर, 

सतारा, उसमानाबाद , सांगली , जलगांव , 
औरंगाबाद, परभनी, नंदेड, भीर , अकोला , 
बुलवाना और राजूर के सिविल जिले तथा 

दावर और नागर हवेली संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 
13. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त (केन्द्रीय) , नागपुर महाराष्ट्र राज्य में नागपुर , बांदा, वर्धा, अमरावती , 

योतमल और भांदरा के सिविल जिले । 
14. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , संभाजी] गोवा, दमण और दीव संघ राज्यक्षेत्र तथा 

महाराष्ट्र राज्य में रतनगिरि और कोल्हापुर 

के सिविल जिले 
15. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), पश्चिमी बंगाल राज्य में कलकत्ता, हावड़ा, 
कलकत्ता - 1 

हुगली, 24 परगना, मिदनापुर, मुरशिदाबाच , 
16. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), नदिया , माल्या, पश्चिमी दिनाजपुर , जलपाई 
कलकत्ता - 2 

गुड़ी, वालिंग और कूचबिहार के सिविल 
17. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , जिले तथा अंडमान और निकोबार द्वीप समूह 
कलकत्ता - 3 

संघ राज्यक्षेत्र । 
18. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , गोहाटी- 1 प्रासाम , नागालैंड और मेघालय राज्यों के सभी 

सिविल जिले तथा मनीपुर और त्रिपुरा संघ 
राज्य- क्षेत्र तथा उत्तर-पूर्वी सीमा अभिकरण 
( नेफा ) 


19. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद- 1 ) 
20. सहायक श्रम प्रयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , धनबाद - 2 
21. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) धनबाद- 3 | बिहार राज्य में धनबाद का सिविल जिला । 
22. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) धनबाद - 4 ) 


4302 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART 11 --- 


__ (1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


23. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), हजारीबाग बिहार राज्य में हजारीबाग , पलामू और रांधी 

के सिविल जिले । 
24. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त (केन्द्रीय ), पटना बिहार राज्य में पटना, शाहबाद, गया, कटिहार , 

मुजफ्फरपुर दरभंगा, मोतिहारी , सहरसा , 
सारन , मुंगेर, पुनिया , भागलपुर और सन्थाल 

परगना के सिविल जिल । 
25. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त (केन्द्रीय) , चाईबासा बिहार राज्य में सिंहभूम का सिविल जिला । 
26. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , ] मैसूर राज्य में गुलबर्ग और बिदार के तथा आन्ध्र 
हैदराबाद - 1 

प्रदेश राज्य में हैदराबाद, निजामाबाद, 

नलगोंडा , महबूबनगर , मेदक , करीमनगर, 
27. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , 

आदिलाबाद , बारंगल और कुर्नूल के 
हैदराबाद- 2 

सिविल जिले । 


28. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में कृष्णा , पश्चिमी गोदावरी , 
बिजयवाडा 

गुंटूर , ओंगोल , नेल्लोर और खम्मम के सिविल 

जिले । 
29 . सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में विशाखापटणम् , श्रीकाकुलम् 
विशाखापटणम् 

और पूर्वी गोवायरी के सिविल जिले । 
30. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), बंगलौर मैसूर राज्य में बंगलौर , कोलार , मैसूर, मंड्रया , 

टुंकुर, कुर्ग, हसन , शिमोगा , दक्षिणी कनारा , 
चित्रदुर्ग और चिकमंगलूर के सिविल जिले 

तथा प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में चित्तूर जिला । 
31. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), बेल्लारी मैसूर राज्य में बेल्लारी, उमरी कनारा, रायचूर , 

बीजापुर , धारवाड और बेलगांव के पीर 
आन्ध्र प्रदेश राज्य में अनन्तपुर और कडपा के 

सिविल जिले । 
32. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), जबलपुर मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में जबलपुर, दमोह, सौगीर , 

छत्तरपुर , टीकमगढ़, सतना , पन्ना और नर 

सिंहपुर के सिविल जिले । 
33. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , रायपुर मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में विलासपुर , रायपुर , दुर्ग , 

बस्तर और रायगढ़ के सिविल जिले । 
34, सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में छिन्दवाड़ा , बेगल , शिवनी , 
छिन्दवाड़ा 

बालघाट और मंडला के सिविल जिले । 
35 . सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , शहदोल मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में शहदोल , सरगजा , सिद्धि 

और रेवा के सिविल जिले । 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 4303 


- - 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3 ) 


36. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), भोपाल मध्य प्रदेश राज्य में सेहोर , रतलाम, मन्दौर, 

भबुना , उज्जैन, धार , रायसेन , शिवपुरी , 
दतिया, विदिशा, मुना , शहजपुर, राजगढ़ , 
पूर्वी निमार, पश्चिमी निमार, होशंगाबाद , 
भिंड , मुरैना, ग्वालियर, इन्दौर और देवास 

के सिविल जिले । 
37 , सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , कानपुर उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य में कानपुर , लखनऊ , इटावा , 

मैनपुरी, झांसी , हमीरपुर, बान्दा , जालौन, 
गोरखपुर, गोंडा , देवरिया , बहराइच , आजमगढ़ , 
बलिया , बस्ती, गाजीपुर, बाराबंकी , 
रायबरेली, उन्नाव , सीतापुर , हरदोई, 
प्रतापगढ़ , इलाहाबाद , मिर्जापुर , वाराणसी , 
जौनपुर, फैजाबाद , सुलतानपुर, तेहपुर 

और फर्रुखाबाद के सिविल जिले । 
38. सहायक श्रम प्रायुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , दिल्ली उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य में प्रागरा , मथुरा , अलीगढ़ , 

मेरठ , मुजफ्फरनगर, बुलन्दशहर और सहारन 
पुर के सिविल जिले तथा हरियाणा राज्य में 
रोहतक , गुड़गांवा, पीर महेन्द्रगढ़ के सिविल 

जिले तथा दिल्ली संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
39 . सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , चंडीगढ़ पंजाब , जम्मू और काश्मीर और हिमाचल प्रदेश 

राज्यों के सभी सिविल जिले तथा रोहतक , 
गुडगांवां और महेन्द्रगढ़ को छोड़ कर हरियाणा 
राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा चंडीगढ़ 

संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
40. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , बरेली उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य में बरेली, नैनीताल, अलमोड़ा, 

देहरादून , बिजनौर, उत्तरकाशी, टिहरी 
गढ़वाल, गढ़वाल , चमोली, पिथोरागढ़ , बदायूं , 
एटा, खेडी,मुरादाबाद , पीलीभीत, रामपुर 

और शाहजहांपुर के सिविल जिले । 
41. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ), मद्रास- 1 1 तमिल नाडु राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा 

पांडिचेरी संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
42. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , मद्रास - 2j 
43. सहायक श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , केरल राज्य के सभी सिविल जिले तथा लक्का 
एर्नाकुलम 

दीव , मिनीकोय और अमीनदीवी दीप 

समूह संघ राज्य क्षेत्र । 
[ सं० एम० /18011 ( 4)/ 71-एल० उडल्यु ० प्राइ०-1/कांट / II ] 

के० डी० हजेला, अवर सचिव । 


4304 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 (PART II 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 28th July 1971 


S . O . 3066 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Iron Ore 
Mines Labour Welfare Cess Act , 1961 (58 of 1961 ) , read with clause ( iv ) of rule 
3 of the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Cess Rules, 1963 , the Central Govt . 
hereby appoints the Chairman , Orissa Mining Corporation Limited , Bhubane 
gwar, to be a member to represent interests of the iron ore mine owners of the 
State of Orissa in the Iron Ore Mines Labour Welfare Fund Advisory Committee 
for the State of Orissa , constituted by the notification of the Govt. of India , in 
the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Labour & Employment ) , No . S . O . 3693 , dated the 9th October , 1968 , and makes 
the following amendment in the said notification , namely : - 


In the said notification, in serial number 5 , for the existing entry , the follow 
ing entry shall be substituted , namely : 

" Chairman , 
Orisga Mining Corporation Limited , 
Bhubaneswar " . 

[ No. F . U-19012/ 5/ 71- M. III .] 


( भम और सोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 23 जुलाई 1971 


एस०मो0 3066.- - लोह अयस्क खान श्रम कल्याण उपकर नियम 1963 के नियम 3 के खण्ड 
( iv ) के साथ पठित्त लोह अयस्क खान श्रम कल्याण उपकर अधिनियम 1961 ( 1961 का 58 ) 
की धारा 4 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार अध्यक्ष , उड़ीसा माइनिंग 
कारपोरेशन सिमिटेड, भुवनेश्वर को भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 3693 तारीख 9 अक्टूबर 1968 द्वारा 
उड़ीसा राज्य के लिए गठित लोह अयस्क खान श्रम कल्याण निधि सलाहकार समिति में उड़ीसा राज्य 
के लोह अयस्क खान स्वामियों के हितों का प्रतिनिधित्व करने के लिए सवस्य के रूप एतवद्वारा नियुक्त 
फरती है और उक्त अधिसूचना में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, अर्थात् :---- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में क्रम संख्या 5 में विद्यमान प्रविष्टि के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि 
प्रतिस्थापित की जायेगी, अर्थात् : 

" अध्यक्ष 
उड़ीसा माइनिंग कारपोरेशन लिमिटेड , 


भुवनेश्वर । " 


[ सं० फा० 0 - 1901 / 2/ 5/ 71-एम० III ] 


New Delhi, the 27th July 1071 


80. 3067 . - -In exercise ot the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - section. 
( 1 ) of section 3 of the Coal Mines Labour Welfare Fund Act , 1947 ( 32 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby exempts as from the date of publication of this 
nottAcation in the official gazette and upto 1973 - 74 , Ignite of whatever descrip 
tion , despatched from the collleries in India , from the levy of the duty of ex 
cise referred to in the said sub - section , 


[ No . 1 / 8 / 67 . M -II .] 
C . R . NAIR , Under Secy . 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTB OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30), 1893 4305 


The foreft , 27 ATE 1971 
. POFTO TO 3067. - Falta TT, # TATT UTFT 7ft tieto farfuglafira , 
( 1947 FT 32 ) RETRT3734-8727 ( 1 ) * TT & TT TGĦ offerti 4 satt i 
हुए , भारत में की कोलियरीज से प्रेषित किसी भी वर्णन के लिगनाइट को , शासकीय राजपत्र में इस 
UWIHTHATUT Fit arcto Hot 1973- 74 746 , 367 JURT frafer 37 
शुल्क के उद्ग्रहरण से एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है । 

ho 1/ 8 /67 /64 - II 
सी० आर० नायर, अवर सचित्र । 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 4th August 1871 
80. 3068 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Madras , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of (i ) Messrs India Cements Limited , Sankari and 
( 11) Star Construction and Transport Company , Sankari and their workinen which 
was received by the Central Government on the 23rd July, 1971 . 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADRAS 

. .Wednesday , the 30th day of June, 1971 
PRESINT : 
Thiru K . Seetharama Rao , B . A . B .L ., Industrial Tribunal, 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 19 OF 1969 
( In the matter of the dispute for adjudication under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 between the workmen and the Managements of M / s . 
India Cements Ltd ., and M / s , Star Construction and Transport Company, Sankari 
West. ) 
BETWIJN : 

( 1 ) The General Secretary , The India Cements Employees Union , Sankari West 
Post Once , Salem District . 

( 2 ) The Secretary , India Cement and Mining Workers Union , Karumapuratham 
pur, Sankari West Post Omce , Salem District , 

AND 
( 1 ) The General Manager, M / s , India Cements Ltd ., Sankari West. 

(2 ) The General Manager, M / s . Star Construction and Transport Company , 
Sankari West. 
REFERENCE ; 

Order No . 36 / 48 / 68-LRI, dated 20th February , 1969, of the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour anad Employment ) 
Government of India , New Delhi , 

This dispute coming on for final hearing on Tuesday the 29th day of June , 1971, 
upon persuing the reference , claim and counter statements , and all other material 
papers on record and upon hearing the arguments of Thiruvalargal G , Venkata 
raman and A . L . Somayajee, advocates for Union No. 1 Thiru S . Ramaswami, 
advocate for union No. 2 and of Thiru M . R . Narayanaswami, advocate for Manage 
ment No . 1 and Thiru T , K , Seshadri, advocate for Management No . 2 and having 
stood over till this day for consideration , this Tribunal made the following : 

AWARD 
The issue for consideration is what is set out by the Central Government in 
its order dated 20th February , 1969 , as follows : - - 
" Whether workmen employed by Messrs Star Construction and Transport 

Company, Sankari West are entitled to annual bonus foi 1967-68 at 


4306 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II 


the rate of 20 per cent as was paid to the factory workers of Messrs 

India Cements Limited , the principal employer ." 
( 2 ) The Claimant Union ( The India Cements Employees Union , Sankart West) 
contends that, for running of the cement factory , lime stones are quarried , in 
the mines near the factory and that the work of quarrying and transporting of 
lime stones has been done, from 1964 , by Messrs. Star Construction and Trans 
port Company , Sankari West ( The second respondent in the Government Order 
cited above ) . It is urged that the work done by the above constractors is work 
done for India Cements Ltd . almost at the factory premises . Under the Wage 
Board Recommendations, the employees of the Contractor are entitled to same 
wages , Dearness allowance and other facilities, that are available to employees of 
the Contractor who is said to be India Cements Ltd . For 1964- 65 , 1965 -66 and 
1966 -67, the Contractor paid bonus at the same rate , as paid by India Cements 
Ltd ., to its employees, Under the settlement concluded on 28th October , 1967, the 
Contractor agreed to pay for 1966 - 67 bonus at 20 per cent at the rate bonus wag 
paid by India Cements Ltd . For the year 1967- 68 , the Contractor did not make 
payment of bonus and so the issue was raised as before the Conciliation Officer. 
India Cements Ltd ., is bound to secure payment of bonus at 20 per cent rate to 
the employees working in the mines who work under the Contractor . It is further 
urged that , in any event, the Contractor , namely , Messrs Star Construction & r. 
Transport Company are bound to pay at 20 per cent rate , 

( 3 ) Union No. 2 ( India Cement and Mining Workers Union , Karumapuratham 
pur ) contended that profits earned by the Management are substantial. This 
Union represents a substantial section of workers employed in the lime stone 
quarry. There are about 1500 workers working in the lime stone quarry , 20 
per cent of bonus is payable , 

( 4 ) The India Cements Ltd ., contended that it had no obligation in the matter 
of payment of bonus to employees working under the Contractor . The 
Provisions of the Payment of Bonus Act do not warrant the impleading of India 
Cements Ltd . The claim made that India Cements has the obligation , in law , to 
engure payment of 20 per cent bonus by the Contractor is without foundation . 
The recommendations made by 1st and 2nd Wage Boards are irrelevant, and 
assuming , that some of those recommendations relating to wage scales have been 
Implemented , it cannot be said that, other recommendations, concerning control.. 
labour, have to be necessarily implemented 

(5 ) The Contractors contended that recommendations of the Wage Board were 
recommendatory and all the recommendations have not been implemented by 
the Contractor. The bonus paid by the contractors had nothing to do with bonus 
paid by India Cements Ltd . Each year bonus dispute was settled , as between the 
employees and the Contractor , There was no implied term of service that these 
employees had to be paid the same quantum of bonus that was paid by India 
Çements Ltd . The bonus has to be paid under the payment of Bonus Act. 

( 6 ) The admitted facts are what are set out in Ex . C - 1 , that, year after year , 
under separate settlements , the Contractor paid to his employees, bonus, in the 
same ratio in relation to wages at which India Cements paid its employees bonus ; 
in 1964 -65 and 1965- 66 bonus was paid by each employer tto its employees at 7 / 24th 
of the basic wages, for each year. For 1965 - 66 under the settlement dated 30th 
October, 1966 , in terms thereof, the Contractor paid bonus to his employees. For 
1966-67, the settlement dated 28th October, 1967 governed the issue about Payment 
oť Bonus by the Contractor to his employees , but then , at self - same rate of 20 
per cent, for 1966 -67, the India Cements Ltd ., also paid bonus to its employees . 
For 1987- 88, India Cement paid bonus at 20 per cent of consolidated wages to its 
employees, 

( 7 ) In the succeeding years , both the Contractor, as well as India Cements , 
paid bonus to its respective employees at 20 per cent rate , the maximum under 
the Payment of Bonus Act . The casual workers were paid only 4 per cent of 
bonus by India Cements, during 1968 -69 and 1969- 70 . 

( 8 ) As already stated , the admitted facts are those that are set out in Ex . C - 1. 

( 9 ) The Union examined W . W . 1 and W . W . 2 to seek to prove that, soon after 
India Cements paid bonus, the Union had demanded payment of bonus to em 
ployees , working under the Contractor . W . W . 2 deposed that the basis for pay 
ment of bonus to employees of the Contractor ever since 1964, for all these years 
was quantum of bonus actually paid to employees of India Cements Ltd . He 
added the profits or losses for any year in the Contractor firm were not taken 
into consideration , at any time, while computing quantum of bonus that was paid . 


SEC , 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4307 


He relied on the letter in Ex . W - 3 to seek to prove that India Cement had imple 
mented Wage Board recommendations, so far as wages and service conditions 
were concerned . He admitted that in Ex . M - 10 letter , dated 13th September , 1960 , 
or , in no other letter , it was ever written that bonus was payable at rates ai 
which bonus was paid to employees of India Cement Ltd . He admitted that 
settlements as between Union and the employees did not read the bonus was paid 
at rates applicable to employees of India Cements Ltd . On the contrary , the settle 
ment reads that employees were to be paid in future bonus, as per provisions of 
the Payment of Bonus Act. He added , however, that Manager of India Cements 
Ltd ., and also Manager of the Contractor had told the Union Representatives, even 
before settlements were written up that the basis for giving bonus was the rate 
at which bonus was given by India Cements Lid ., to its employees . W . W . 2 
admitted that settlements were always separate , concerning India Cements and 
its employees and the Contractor Arm and its employees . 

( 10 ) W . W . 1 (President of the Labour Union ) admitted that India Cements 
had talks with its employees about payment of bonus, and only , subsequently , 
bonus was paid by the Contractor firm to employees. W . W . 1 admitted that the 
bonus was paid by Contractor firm to its employees and not that India Cements 
ever paid bonus, at any time to employees working under the Contractor. His 
attention was drawn to the fact that in no settlements or letters or any other 
correspondence , it was ever written that bonus was payable or was being paid 
by the Contractor firm , on the basis of bonus paid by India Cements to its em 
ployees . 

( 11) Actually , there are 2 Unions, one known as The India Cements Employees 
Union and the other union known as India Cement and Mining Workers Union . 
Actually . the Star Construction Quarry Transport Employees Union later styled 
itselt as India Cements Employees Union . 


( 12 ) Ex - M - 7 is the settlement that governs only employees of the Contractor, 
There is no writing there that bonus at 7 / 24th of the total basic wages for the 
year was agreed to be paid , on the basis , or because India Cements had paid that 
bonus, at that rate to its employees. Ex . M - 8 the settlement for the succeeding 
year concerning employees working under the Contractor , contains the following 
terms that are significant; they are that union accepted and confirmed and 
declared that this basis of payment shall be only for the year 1966 -67 and shall 
not constitute a precedent for the future year and that Bonus for the subsequent 
years will be paid only as per Bonus Act. As already stated , in the letter in 
Ex . M - 10 to Ex , M - 12 , there is no writing that bonus was necessarily payable as 
per service conditions, cxpress or implied , at the rate at which bonus was paid 
to its employees by India Cements Ltd . 

( 13 ) The continuous payment of bonus, year after year, at the rate at which 
bonus was paid to employees of India Cements Ltd ., should prove, so it is con 
tended , on behalf of the Unions, that, at all times , the Contractors accepted that 
these employees were doing the same kind of work as was done by employees 
of India Cements Ltd . and hence, in equity and justice they have to be paid 
bonus at the rate at which it was paid by India Cements Ltd ., to its employees. 
The similarity or pattern of work done , it is so urged , was taken note of and that 
is why, every time that settlements were concluded , bonus was paid at the rate 
at which India Cements Ltd ., paid bonus to its employees and the argument is 
that such payments made from 1964 have resulted , in the employees acquiring 
a new service condition that payment of bonus shall be, on par, with payments 
made to employees of India Cements Ltd . It is urged that in the decision repo . t 
ed in 1959 - II-LLJ-page 826 (Dunlop Rubber Co., Vs. Its workmen ) their Lord 
ships of the Supreme Court help , as to what was service condition . If uniform 
conditions prevalled in all branches of an all India Concern , such condition should 
not be lightly changed , is what their Lordships held . In another case , le , the 
workmen of the Indian Telephone Industries Limited represented by its Secretary 
vs. The Management of the Indian Telephone Industries Limited , HIs Lordship 
Vaidialingam , J . wrote as follows: 
" From the various minutes recorded of the meeting held between the parties, 

the circulars issued by the Management, the payment by the respon 
dent of the same dearness allowance as applicable to the Central 
Government employees from the same dates as adopted by the 
Central Government, the various statements made by the respondent, 
that the Central rates of dearness allowance are being granted to its 
employees , it is correct to inter that the management has been adopt 
ing the Central Government pattern of payment of dearness allowance , 
by virtue of an agreement or under standing arrived at between the 


- - 


- 


. . 


4308 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART 11 – 

= - ...- - - - - - - .. . - - - - - 
parties and as such the payment of dearness allowance at the Central 

Government rate has become a condition of service ." 
In the above judgment His Lordship considered as to how payment of Dearness 
Allowance was evolved on the self same pattern in relation to Central Government 
employees, as well as employees working in the Telephone industries, that was 
a Government of India undertaking. 

( 14 ) In my view , the above argument is not acceptable for the simple reason , 
that payment of bonus was done under settlements and , further, the settlement 
tor 1966 -67 discloses beyond doubt, the acceptance by the Union , that bonus will 
be paid as per Payment of Bonus Act in future years. In other words, when 
paying bonus at 20 per cent oť consolidated wages for 1966 -67, the Management, 
namely , the Contractor look good care to make its known and even accepted by 
the Union , that payment of bonus had to be made only under the law , namely 
the Payment of Bonus Act. Secondly , the Union of employees for the Contractor 
separately dealt with the Contractors in separate settlements that had nothing 
to do with employees of India Cements Ltd . In my view , merely because the 
settlement in Ex. M - 8 is now cancelled under the notice issued by the Union , from 
that fact, it cannot be held that the Union did not confirm and declare that pay 
ment of bonus at 20 per cent for 1966 -67 was payment made for that year and was 
not to constitute a precedent for the succeeding year . Apparently , the Contractors 
were aware that employees were demanding payment of Bonus at the rate at which 
India Cements Ltd ., paid bonus to its employees. The Contractors had no cbjec 
tion to pay bonus that year at that rate , but they never accepted that workers 
could claim such right every year and they took good care to get declaration to 
the contrary that though payment was made at that 20 per cent rate , such payment. 
was not a precedent and that in future bonus was to be paid as per Act . I am 
satisfied that no service condition express or implied , exists to demand payment 
of bonus at rate applicable to employees of India Cements Ltd . I find that the 
Contractor Arm had no obligation whatever, on acoount of any service conditions, 
express or implied or because of any understanding that did not exist that bonus 
was payable to his employees at the rate at which India Cements Pald bonus to 
its employees . In my view , reference to Wage Board Recommenations is not 
what is material, for only some of the recommendations have been accepted both 
by th Contractor Arm and India Çements Ltd ., and that was done under settlements 
concluded with the respective Unions. It was never agreed to , by India Cements 
Ltd ., that they were responsible for Payment of bonus to employees of the Contrac 
tor , or that such employees were to be paid bonus at the rate at which bonus was 
paid to its own employees . I agree that the contract system is being statutorily 
abolished , but then , I am dealing with the issue about payment of bonus for the 
year 1967 -68 , at a time when contract system remained unfettered , and Contractor 
firm could do work , not merely of loading and un - loading of goods, but also of 
other work , normally , to be done by the principal himsell 

( 15 ) The Unions contended that the evidence of M . W . 1 ., and the worksheet 
prepared by him in Ex . M - 2 were not to be accepted . 

( 16 ) In Ex . M - 3 M . W . 1 the Chartered Accountant has written that the actual 
gross earnings by the Contractor firm is to be reduced by Rs , 48 , 123 -68 as that 
amount was not realised and is shown aş profit in a wrong way in Ex . M -2 . How 
ever , the unions rightly contended that I am concerned with the writing in the 
balance sheet , and in the Profit and Loss Statement that shows gross earnings. 
as of that amount as shown in Ex. M - 2 , inclusive of Rs. 48 ,125 - 68 which amour 
was originally expected to be realised as income, but that was not realised . 

( 17 ) The unions sought clarification of the amount shown as employees con 
tribution towards provident fund and such clarification was given in Ex . M - 13 . 
The total wage bill paid by the Contractor is also set out in Ex , M - 13 M . W . 1 
correctly certified in Ex. M - 13 that the amount of Rs. 2 , 00 , 802 -00 was remitted to 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner , Bangalore on those dates specifed 
in Ex. M - 13. The second objection raised is about income tax , that is payable 
for the year in question . It is agreed that income- tax payable by the firm , as 
well as the partners (to the extent of the profits from this firm ) have to be provided 
for as an item of deduction . One finds that M . W . 1 Arst reduced the tax on the 
firm by Rs. 1 ,44,493 / - and that because partners were paying tax under the Income 
tax Act. The law is that tax payable by the Arm is reduced from income of 
partners and only balance of income of partners is charged for income-tax and 
that is what M . W . 1 has done M . W . 1 explained that Finance Act of 1969 came 
into force with effect from 1st April, 1969 , and under it rate of tax was increased 
ending on . Because the Finance Act came into force on 1st April, 1900 . this firm 
had to pay an extra tax of Rs. 52 ,000 and odd for the year in question . The 
accounting year for this Arm was from 1st July , 1967, to 30th June, 1968 , and the 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4309 


new Finance Act applied for the period till 31st March , 1969 ( and so for the period 
from 1st April , 1968 , 1o 30th June. 1968 ) . The Unions contended that as Mercan 
tile system of accounting was followed , in this Company, the actual liability arose 
on the date that such liabllity occurred and that right till 30th June, 1968 , under 
the law then existing, the tax payable was less. The argument is that the Finance 
Act was promulgated only on 1st April, 1969, and , when that is so , it is urged 
that tax payable is to be ascertained under Finance Act of 1968 and the amount 
of tax determined that way , ignoring, so it is urged , the fact that Finance Act of 
1969 taxed all incomes balanced and closed after ist April, 1968, till 31st March , 
1969. The Finance Act, of 1969 sets out the rate of tax payable for the assessment 
year , tax being payable on profits for the accounting year which is the previous 
year . Each company has the right to notify the previous year to the Income- tax 
department. The company had notified the previous year to be the year ending 
on 30th June, 1968, that is 12 months period preceding 30th June, 1968. As 
Finance Act came into force on 1st April, 1969 , and the previous year ended on 
30th June, 1968 , in law , the tax payable is at the rates specifed under Finance 
Act of 1969. I therefore, find that the correct income-tax , that is payable , as 
set out in Section ( 7 ) of the Payment of Bonus Act, has been deducted in Ex , M - 2 . 
In the Metal Box case, the law is setforth that the tax payable for the year , at the 
rate prescribed by the Finance Act , is the deductable item , 

( 18 ) The other objection raised is about deduction allowed to partners in terms 
of the writing made in the Third Schedule under the Payment of Bonus Act and 
what each partner got is what is set out in Ex . M -5 , M . W . I agreed that in no 
agreement profits were agreed to be divided as amongst the partners, and he 
referred to the writing made in Schedule 3 of the Payment of Bonus Act as 
authority to arrive at remuneration payable to partners , The learned counsel for the 
Management contended that, in the absence of agreement amongst partners to 
receive specified emoluments , as written in Third Schedule to the Payment of 
Bonus Act , I have got to allow only 25 per cent of the gross profits towards 
remuneration . 25 per cent of gross profits as partners remuneration is allowed 
as per writing in the 3rd Schedule to Payment of Bonus Act. Ex , M - 2 reads that 
income for the year ending on 30th June, 1968, the gross profts as per Payment of 
Bonus Act is Rs. 6 ,35, 342 and 25 per cent of the same is to be allowed as partners 
remuneration and it is seen that amount even more than the amount allowed in 
Ex . M - 2 as the remuneration payable to the 3 partners , restricted to Rs. 48 ,000 per 
partner . I fod Ex . M - 2 is a correct work sheet statement. The correction made 
in Ex. M -3 is not accepted by me, for under the mercantile system of accounting 
the fact that the amount of Rs. 48 , 12 , 568 is not realised is not what is relevant, 
for the above amount was payable by India Cements Ltd ., and , surely , India 
Cements Ltd ., has got the means to pay the amount. It is nobody s case that Bills 
for the amount were not genuine. The mere fact that Income- tax Department 
allowed that item of deduction cannnot mean that under the payment of Bonus 
Act , when I derl with profits as written in the balance sheet and when I allow 
national expenditure of income tax , I have the right to allow deduction for that 
şum , as is wrong specified in Ex . M - 3 . 


( 19 ) I agree that, when calculation notional income-tax payable , I have to 
allow for income- tax payable on Rs. 48 , 12 - 68 namely 55 per cent of the above 
amount. I find that allocable surplus is Rs. 42 ,150 . Ex . M - 13 reads that the wage 
bill is Rs. 12 , 97 ,070 -49 per year and 4 per cent of that is about Rs. 50 ,000 or so . 


( 20 ) I may state here that it is not the contention by the Unions, that any 
set - off Agure is available from allocable surplus in the previous two years , for , 
under settlements , as in the prevlous two years , it is agreed , during argumenta , 
that more than what was due, under the Payment of Bonus Act was paid to the 
employees . The Management was not even summoned by the Unions to Ale the 
balance sheets and Profts and Loss Statements for the previous 2 years . 


(21) This contractor firm and the Union of workers had separate agreements , 
year after year . The Union therefore accepted the contractor firm to be the 
employer for these employees , with whom I am now concerned in this Industrial 
Dispute . The employer as defined in the Payment of Bonus Act, is the person 
who has ultimate control on the establishment in question . The control over these 
employees is only with the contractor firm , as is practically admitted . I And that 
India Cements Ltd ., had no control over these employees of the contractor Arm 
and that India Cements Ltd ., is not liable to pay Bonus to these employees, 

(22) This award is passed to the effect that the workers of the employees of 
Contractor firm are not entitled to be paid bonus at 20 per cent of consolidated 
wages for 1967-68 and they will be, however , paid bonus only by the Contractor : 


- 4310 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ Part II -- 


. .. . 


firm at the minimum rate of 4 per cent, as under the Payment of Bonus Act, less 
bonus already paid to them for that year, 
Dated , this 30th day of June, 1971. 

( Sd.) T , K , SEETHARAMA, 

Industrial Tribunal. 
WITNESS AND EXHIBITS : 

Witnesses Examined : 
For Workmen : 

W . W . 1 -- Thiru P . R . Narayanan , 

W . W . 2 - Thiru S . K . Palaniappan , 
For Management : 
M . W . 1 - Thiru K . Venkataşubbllah Naidu , Chartered Accountant, 

Documents Marked 
For Workmen : 
W - 1 / 26 - 8 -68 — Copy of letter from the President of the India Cements Em 

ployees Union to the Managements terminating the settlement. 
W - 2 /25 -10-69 - Circular regarding bonus for the Acounting year 1988 - 69, 
W - 3 / 3 - 2 - 6 -- - Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company to the 

Secretary, Star Construction quarry & Transport Employees Union , 

Sankari, implementing the Wage Board recommendations. 
W -4 / 3 -8 -69 % Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company, San 

kari to the Secretary , Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em 

ployees Union , Sankari regarding payment of arrears , 
For Management : 
M -1 - - Balance sheet as at 30 -6 -1963 in respect of Star Construction and 

Transport Company, Sankari. 
M -2 / 15 - 10 -68 — Bonus work sheet of the Star Construction and Transport 

Company , Sankari , 
M -3 / 14 - 10 - 69 — Bonus worksheet for the Accounting year 1- 7-67 to 30 -6 -68 of 

Star Construction and Transport Company , Sankari . 
M - 4 / — Depreciation statement as on 30 -6 -68 of the Star Construction and 

Transport Company , 
M - 5 - Statement showing tax due on income distributed to Partners of M / s . 

Star Construction and Transport Company . 
M - 6 -- - Statement of calculation of Firm Tax , for the Assessment 1969 - 70 in 

respect of M / s, Star Construction and Transport Company . 
M - 7 / 31 - 10 -66 — Copy of Memorandum of settlement under section 12 ( 3 ) of 

the Industrial Disputes Act between the Star Construction and Trans 
port Company and Star Construction Quarry and Trangport employees 

Union , Sankari West. 
M - 8 / 28 - 10 - 87 – 
M - 9 / 7 - 4 -69 _ Copy of settlement between the India Cements Employees 

Union , Sankari and the Managements . 
M - 10 / 13 - 9 - 66 - Letter from Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em 

ployees Union , Sankari to the Star Construction and Transport Com 

pany for payment of Bonus for 1965 - 66 . 
M - 11/ 11 - 10 - 67 - Letter from Star Construction Quarry and Transport Em 

ployees Union , Sankari to the Star Construction and Transport Com 

pany for payment of bonus for the year 1967 . 
M - 12 / 24 - 1 -69 - Letter from Star Construction and Transport Company to 

the Secretary , India Cements Employees Union Sankari terminating 

the settlement. 
M - 13 / 19 - 6 - 71— Clarification of certain items in the balance sheet certified by 
M . W . 1 . 

Sd / 
Industrial Tribunal. 
[NO, 36 (48) / 88 -LR -IV . j 


- do 


SEC . 3 (fi) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21. 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4310 


New Delhi, the 5th August, 1971 
$ . O . 3069, - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dispules Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1 ), Dhanbad , in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to Messrs Balaram & Brothers. Raising Con 
tractors in Kasia Iron Mines of Messrs S . Lai and Company (Private ) Limited , 
Post Office Barbil , District Keonjhar (Orissa ) and their workmen , which was 
received by the Central Government on the 28th July , 1971, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD . 
In the matter of a reference under section 10 (1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 . 

REFERENCE No. 38 of 1968 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Messrs Balaram & Brothers Raising Contractors 

in Kasia Iron Mines of Messrs Ş . Lal & Co. (Private ) Limited , P . O . 
Barbil, Dist. Keonjhar (Orissa ). 


AND 
Their Worknen . 
PRESENT ; 

Shri A . Ç . Sen , Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers : None, 

For the Workmen : Shri H . Behra , General Secretary . 
STATE : Orissa . 

INDUSTRY : Iron Cre. 
Dhanbad , dated the 21st July , 1971 

AWARD 
Under section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Indutrial Disputes Act, 1947, the Central Govern 
ment by its order No. 37 / 6 / 68 -LRI, dated New Delhi, the 17th May , 1968 referred 
the following dispute to this Tribunal for its adjudication ; " Whether the refusal of 
employment to Sarvashri Chatan , Bhanj Bhongra , Budhua , Chambral, Budhu and 
Shrimati Budhuni, Miners by Messrs Balaram & Brothers , Raising Contractors in 
Kasia Iron Ore Mines of Messrs S . Lal & Company (Private ) Limited , Post Omce 
Barbil. District Keonjhar (Orissa ) was unjustified ? If so , to what relief are the 
workmen entitled ? " 

2 . The workmen involved in this case are members of Keonjhar Mines Forest 
Workers Union . It appears that the workers went on strike from 21st December , 
1987 at the instance of the said union . According to the management a general 
notice was given by the management on 1st January , 1968 advising the workmen 
on strike to resumo their duties immediately , as the general strike called by the 
Union , was prohibited by the Government of India by notification No. S . O . 4663 
dated 28th December , 1968. 

3 . Further case of the management is that subsequently another notice was 
given by the management on 18th January , 1968 asking the workmen to resume 
duties within seven days i.e . by 24th January , 1968 as the strike launched was called 
up on 181.h Janary . 1968 . According to the management the said two notices one 
dated 1st January, 1968 and the other dated 18th January , 1968 were displayed 
in the notice board . Their further case is that the names of the concerned work 
men were struck out as they did not resume their duties till 24th Jüruary, 1968 . 
The rest of the workers according to them Joined their duties on or before that 
date . 

4 . In paragraph 4 of the written statement flled by the workmen it has been 
stated that the management did not send any notice calling upon the workmen to 
join their duties after the general strike had been called oil on 18th January , 1968 
and that no such notice was displayed in the notice board nor was any copy of the 
notice sent to the union , 

5 . In paragraph 5 of the written statement it has been stated that after the 
general strike had been called off by the union all the workmen reported for duty 


4312 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II 


to the employers on 18th January, 1968 but they were refused employment without 
assigning any reason for such refusal. 


6 . In paragraph 6 of the written statement it has been stated that on such 
refusal of employment by the management the workmen concerned sent two 
representations on 26th January , 1968 to the employees by registered post with 
acknowledgement due , which were received on the 30th January , 1888 by the 
employers. It is further stated that no reply was given to those two letters by the 
employers, 


7 . No one appeared on behalf of the management. Shri H . Behra , General 
Secretary of the union appeared on behalf of the workmen and examined himself 
as witness No. 1 on behalf of the workmen . 


8 . According to W . W . 1 , Shri Chambrai and Shrimati Budhuni reported for duty 
on 18th January , 1968 and worked upto 20th January , 1968 and that they were 
stopped from work thereafter . He has further stated that they sent an application 
dated the 26th January , 1968 protesting against such stoppage. His further evi 
dence is that Shri Bhanj Bhongra , Budhu , Budhua and Chatan reported for work 
on 19th January 1968 but that they were not allowed to resume their duties . They 
also , according to him , sent a letter to the employers on 26th January, 1968 pro 
lesting against the conduct of the management. The two letters both dated the 
26th January, 1968 were marked as Exts . W1 and W2. The acknowledgement 
receipt was marked as W2( a ) . 


9 . In Ext. w1 appears inter -alia L . T . Is of Chambral and Budhuni. The relevant 
portion of the letter runs thus : “ We joined our duties and worked up to 20th 
January , 1968 . But from 22nd January , 1988 we have stopped inarking attendance 
without assigning any reason and also did not give us the weekly concession rice 
on 25th January . 1968. I therefore make this application in writing to pay us the 
full wages and full concession rice from 22nd January , 1968 onwards " . 


10 . Ext. W2 Sears the signatures of Bhanj Bhongra and L . T . Is of Budhu , 
Budhuni, Budhua and Chatan . The relevant portion of the said letter runs thus : 
" The strike has been called off from 18th January , 1968. As we were not present 
in our hutments on the above date , we could not join our duties on 18th January . 
1968 but we reported for our duties on 19th August, 1968 but regret to say that 
you have not allowed us to resume our duties . We therefore make this applica 
tion in writing and request you to please allow us to resume our duties with imme 
-diate effect and also pay us the wages from 19th January , 1968 " . 


11 . Thesc two exhibits clearly show that the version of the employers that the 
workmen concerned were dismissed because they did not resume their duties on or 
before 24th January, 1968 is not correct. That being so thc summary dismissal of 
these workmen cannot be justifed , 


12 . Even assuming that the version given by the inanagement as to why these 
workmen were dismissed is correct it is clear that they were dismissed without any 
departmental enquiry. In the standing orders Ext . W3, there is no provision for 
automatic termination of service without investigation . That being the case the 
dismissal of the workmen concerned without any domestic enquiry is thoroughly 
Linjustified . . I accordingly make the following award ; " The refusal of employment 
to Sarvashri Chatan . Bhanj Bhongra , Budhua , Chambrai, Budhu and Shrimati 
Budhuni, Miners by M / s . Balaram and Brothers, Raising Contractors in Kasia Iron 
Mines of Messrs S . Lal and Co. ( P ) Ltd ., was thoroughly unjustified and they are 
to be reinstated with back wages subject to the deduction of the amounts , if any, 
which they might have received in the meantime on account of wages. The back 
wages are to be calculated on the footing that they have been in continuous 
service uptill now . 


13. This is my award . Let a copy of this award be forwarded to the Central 
Government under section 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. 


A . C . SEN , Presiding Officer . 

[No. 37 /6 / 88 - LR . IV .1 


Sec, 3 ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4313 
- - --- - - --- -- -- 

New Delhi, the 7th August 1971 
S . O . 3070 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 2 ), Dhanbad, in tho industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the Amlabad Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad ) and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 31st July , 1971, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 

(NO . 2 ) DHANBAD 
PRESENT : 
Shri Nanagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer . 

REFERENCE No. 22 OF 1970 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under S . 10 ( 1) ( d ) of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947. 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Amlabad Coillery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee 

Collicries Limited , Post Office Bhowra (Dhanbad ) . 


en 


AND 

Thelt workmen 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of the enployers : None . 
On behalf of the workmen : Shri Ram Mitra Secretary , Bihar Koyala 

Mazdoor Sabha . 
STATE : Bihar, 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad, 28th July , 1971 

AWARD 
The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Amlabad Colliery of Messrs Bhowra 
Khankanee Collieries Limited , Post Office Bhowra ( Dhanbad ) and their workmen , 
by its order No. 2 / 113 / 70 - LRII dated 30th October , 1970 referred to this Tribunal 
under $ . 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 for adjudication the dispute 
in respect of the matters spccifled in the schedule annexed thereto . The schedule 
is extracted below 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the transfer of Bhri Bindeswar Mahato , Onsetter from Amlabad 

Colliery of Messrs Bhora Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post office 
Bhowia ( Dhanbad ) to Madhuband Colliery of Messrs Oriental Coal 
Company Limited , Post office Nudkhurkee (Dhanbad ) with effect from 
the 25th April, 1970 is justified ? If not. to what relief is the work 

man entitled ? " 
2. Workmen as well as the employers flled their statement of demands. 

3 . Admittedly , the affected workmen , Bindeswar Mahato was working as an 
Onsetter at Amlubad Colliery and he was transferred to Madhuband Colliery with 
effect from 25th April, 1970 by a letter of the same date issued under the signa 
ture of the Project Officer of M / s . Thaper Introfor Co . of India Ltd . Now , the 
case of the workmen is that Amlabad and Madhuband collieries do not have 
common management and the two collieries belong to two different limited com 
panies and M / s. Thaper Intrafor Co . were contractors engaged by the manage 
ment of Amlabad Colliery and , as such the transfer of the affected workman to 
Madhuband Colliery was unjust. It is further stated that the affected workman 
protested to the management of Amlabad Colliery and under pressure of the 
management reported for duty at Madhuband colliery but the authority of Madhu 
band Colliery refused to provide him with the job which he was doing at Amlabad 
and when the affected workman returned and reported at Amlabad Colliery the 
management of Amlabad Colliery did not consider anything and verbally stated 
that the services of the aflecled workman were terminated . The employers Aled 
the statement pleading that there was no relationship of employer and employee 
between them and the affected workman as the affected worknjan was employed 


4314 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ Part 11 


- 


- 


- - - 


- , 


- 


- 


- 


under M / s . Thaper Intrafor Co . of India Ltd ., who were appointed by the manage 
ment of Amlabad colliery as their contractors for sinkine shafts in Amlabad 
Colliery. It is adınitted that Amlabad Colliery and Madhuband Colliery were own. 
ed by separate limited companies but it is pleaded that since 1st July 1969 M / s . 
Oriental Coal Co . Ltd . has acquired the Collleries originally owned by M / s . Bhowra 
Kankanee Collieries Ltd , and therefore both the Collieries are now under the same: 
management since the above date. At the outset the employers have taken a 
legal objection that the reference itself is incompetent, inasmuch as at no point 
of time any dispute was raised by the workmen with the management. The work 
men were represented by Shri Ram Mitra , Secretary, Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha. At the earlier stage the employers were represented by Shri R . B . Singh . 
Personnel Officer. On 22nd May , 1971 no one appeared for the employers although 
that was the date finaily fixed at the request of the employers for documents. On 
18th June 1971 Shri K . C . Nandkeolyar , Deputy Chief Personnel Officer appeared 
for the employers but without authority . On 29th June 1971 and 12th July , 1971 
no one appeared on behalf of the employers without any information and , con 
sequently the case proceeded in accordance with Rule 22 of the Industrial Disputes 
(Central) Rules , 1957 . On admission by the workmen , Exts . Mi and M2 were 
marked for the employers. On behalf of the workmen a witness was examined: 
and Exts . W . 1 to W .6 were marked . Till today also no Information is received 
from the employers . 

4 . At the outset I propose to take up the objection raised by the employers .. 
The workmen have pleaded that after receiving the transfer order the affected 
workman protested to the management of Amlabad Colliery against his transfer 
and the pleading is eniphatically denied by the employers . The affected workman 
is examined as ww . 1 and he says that after he received the transfer , Ext. W . 1 
he submitted an application , the original of Ext. W . 4 to the manager of Amlabad 
Colliery . He has also identified the initials of O . P . Manchandani, the manager on 
Ext. W . 4 as in token of having recelyed the original of Ext . W , 4 . Ext, W . 4 is 
dated 27th April, 1970 and the date under the initial of the Manager is 28th April, 
1970. It is only 3 days after the transfer order, Ext . W . 1 was issued . Ext. W . 4 
refers to the transfer of the affected workmen to Madhuband Colliery and requests 
the manager to cancel the transfer order . ww . 1 has further deposed that since 
about 3 years he is the Secretary of the Amlabad branch of Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Şabha , that when he submitted the original of Ext. W . 4 to the manager of Aml 
abad Colliery he was accompanied by Ram Mitra, Secretary , Bihar Koyala Mazdoor 
Sabha and Ram Mitra also pleaded with the manager not to transfer the affected 
workman to Madhuband Colliery and to take back the transfer order , Ext. W . 1. 
From this evidence it is abandantly proved that only 3 days after receipt of the 
Lransfer order , Ext. W . 1 the affected workman as well as the Secretary, Bihar 
Koyala Mazdoor Sabha , the union which raised the present industrial dispute 
demanded of the manager of Amlabad Colliery to take back the transfer order and 
the manager refused to do so . There is no rebuttal evidence . Hence, the objec 
tion of the employers cannot sustain and it is over ruled , 

5 . The contention of the employers is that there has never been employer 
employee relationship between them and the affected workman , According to the 
employers the affected workman was an employee of the contractors , M / s . Thaper 
Intrafor Co . of India Ltd , and that the transfer order , Ext. W . 1 was issued by 
the Project Manager of M / s . Thaper Intrafor Co . of India Ltd . It is admitted by 
the employers that Amlabad Colliery belonged to M / s , Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Ltd . and Madhuband Colliery to M / s . Oriental Coal Company Ltd . It it also 
admitted by the employers in para 6 of their statement that the job of Onsetter 
is a job of complet T901 under the Coal Mines Regulations and that , accord 
ingly the manager of Amlabad colliery had issued appointment letters to the 
affected workman under the Coal Mines Regulations. However, it is ple :ided 
that with effect from 1st July , 1969 M / s . Oricnal; Company Ltd . has acquir 
ed the Collieries owned by M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . Firstly , this 
contention has no relevancy , inasmuch as the transfer orcier , Ext. W . 1 is not issued 
by the Manager of Amlabad Colliery appointed either by M / s. Oriental Coal Co . 
Ltd . Or M / s Bhowra Kankanee Collleries Ltd . Secondly , there is no evidence that 
with effect from 1st July , 1969 M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . have ceased 
to be the owners and M / s. Oriental Coal Company Ltd , have become the owners 
of Amlabad Colliery . Exts . W 2 and W . 3 are appointment letters issued in 
accordance with clause 36 of the Coal Mines Regulations, 1937. As pointed out 
by me above, they are admitted by the employers as having been issued by the 
manager of Amlabad Colliery owned by M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Ltd . 

That apart, WW . 1 was proved the signatures of the manager as well as his 
own signature and thumb impression on them . Ext. W . 2 is dated 28th June , 1968 
and Ext. W . 3 dated 8th September , 1969 . Clause 36 ( 1 ) of the reguiations layg 
down that the owner , agent or manager shall appoint the competent persons. 


Sec. 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4315 


Sub - clause ( 2 ) of the clause says that it shall be the responsibility of the manager 
to see that no person shall be so appointed unless he is paid by the owner or 
agent and is answerable to the manager . It should be presumed that the manager , 
of Amlabad Colliery had issued the appointment letters , Exts , W . 2 and W . 3 hav 
ing taken care to see that the affected workman was paid by the owner or agent 
before the appointment letters were issued to him , There is no evidence of the 
manager to the contra . Now , the employers M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Ltd . cannot be heard to say that the affected workman was not their employee 
or that he was the employee of the contractors, M / s . Thaper Intrafor Co . of India 
Ltd . Or that the Project Manager of the contractors was competent to transfer 
him to Madhuband Colliery . 


6 . I, therefore, hold that the transfer of the affected workman , Bindeswar 
Mahato , Onsetter from Amlabad Colliery of M / s . Bhowra Kankanee Collieries 
Limited , Post Omce Bhowra ( Dhanbad ) to Madhuband Colliery of M / s . Oriental 
Coal Company Limited , Post Office Nudkhurkee ( Dhanbad ) with effect from the 
25th April, 1970 was not justified and , consequently , h should bt treated as being 
continuing in service in his job as Onsetter and he is entitled to his wages and 
all other emoluments with effect from the above date . The award is made accord 
ingly and submitted under S . 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 . 

(Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer . 
[No. 2 / 113 / 70 -LRII. ] 


S . O . 3071. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad, in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari 
Colliery belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited , Post Office Sijua 
(Dhanbad ) and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government 
on the 27th July , 1970 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) AT 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT: 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer , 

REFERENCE No. 4 OF 1971 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under S . 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari Colliery 

belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited , Post Office , Sijua 
( Dhanbad ) 

AND 
Their workmen . 
APPEARANCES: 

On behalf of the employers. - Shri B . Joshi, Advocate. 

On behalf of the workmen . - Shri B . M . Prosad, Advocate . 
STATE : Bihar . 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad, 24th July 1971 

AWARD 


The Central Government, being of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the management of North Tetulmari Colliery 
belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited , Post Office Sijua ( Dhanbad ) 
and their workmen , by its order No. 2 / 135 / 70 -LR . II dated 11th December , 1970 
referred to this Tribunal under S .10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
for adjudication the dispute in respect of the matters specified in the schedule 
annexed thereto . The schedule is extracted below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of North Tetulmari Colliery belong 

ing to Tetulmari Colliery Company , Post Ofce Sijua ( Dhanbad ) in 


4316 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part 11 


- 


dismissing Shri Rambaran Singh , Fan Khalasi with effect from the 
14th February , 1970 was justied ? If not, to what relief is the work 

man entitled ? ” 
2 . On 19th June 1971 the affected workman Rambaran Singh appeared in per 
son and also was represented by Shri B . M , Prosad , Advocate . The employers 
were represented by Shri B . Joshi, Advocate . Parties filed a compromise memo 
stating that the dispute in respect of dismissal of the affected workman was ami 
cably settled , that the affected workman had received all his legal dues, that the 
affected workman is working in another colliery and that no dispute award may 
be passed . The compromise memo was accompanied by an affidavit and the com 
promise memo is duly verified . I consider the compromise as beneficial to the 
afl ected workman and is in the interest of industrial peace. The compromise 
memo is therefore , accepted and the award is made in terms of the compromigo 
and submitted under s. 15 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. The compromise 
memo is annexed herewith and is made part of the Award . 

(Sd.) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt . Industrial Tribunal, 

(No. 2 ) Dhanbad . 


BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL NO . 2 AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE NO . 4 OF 1971 
Employers in relation to North Tetulmari Colliery 

AND 
Their workmen . 

Compromise petition 
The joint petition on behalf of the employers above named and the concerned 
workman , Shri Rambaran Singh , most respectfully sheweth ; — 
1 . That the concerned workman has amicably settled the dispute with the 

employers. 
2. That the concerned workman has received all his legal dues and has no 

claim whatsoever with the management. 
3 . That the concerned workman is working in another colliery and has no 

intention to serve at North Tetulmari colliery any further. 
4 . That the concerned workman has sworn affidavit which is enclosed 

herewith . 
5 . That the concerned workman does not press his claim for reinstatement 

with full back wages and other benefits any further and does not 

authorise any Union to do so on his behalf . 
8 . That the employers have undertaken to take all steps for regularisation 

of P . F . account of the concerned workman so that no difficulty may 

arise at the time of withdrawal of the same, 
It is humbly prayed that the Hon ble Tribunal be graciously pleased to record 
the compromise petition and pass no dispute Award . 
For the workmen 

For the Employers 
( Sd .) RAMRARAN SINGH , 

(Sd.) Illegible . 
Concerned workman 

Partner 
( Sd .) THAKUR PRASAD JHA 

(Sd.) B . JOSHI, 
Head Clerk 

Advocate 
Witness ; 
( Sd .) B . M . PRASAD , 
Advocate . 
19 - 8 - 71. 

[ No. 2 /135 /70 - LRII. I 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21. 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4317 


- . 


30D 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 26th May: 1971 
S . O . 3072. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Khas 
Joyrampur Colliery of Messrs . Khas Joyrampur Colliery Company Private 
Limited , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specied in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , tho 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal (No. 1 ) , Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the stoppage of work of Shri Rupan Bhuian , Surface Trammer , 

by the management of Khas Joyrampur Colliery of Messrs . Khas 
Joyrampur Colliery Company Private Limited , Post Office Jharta , 
District Dhanbad with effect from the 9th July 1970 is justied ? IL 
not, to what relief the workman is entitled ? 

[ No. L / 2012 / 76 / 71 - LRII.] 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

मावेश 

नई दिल्ली , 26 मई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3072. -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकारको राय है कि इससे उपाबत अनसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मैपर्स खास जोपरामपुर कोलियरी कम्पनो ( प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , डाकवर झारया , 
जिना धनबार की खास जोपरामपुर कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमण्डल से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना बाछनीय 
समझती है ; 

अनः, अब, प्रोयोगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 को 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उम्न विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण ( संख्या 1 ) , 
धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्दशित करती है । 


/ 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स खास जोपरामपुर कोलियरी कम्पनी प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, डाकघर 
झरिया , जिला धनबाद की खास जोपरामपुर कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमण्डल द्वारा श्री रूपन 
भड़यां, भूतल ट्रैमर का 9 जुलाई, 1970 से काम बन्द करना न्यायोचित है ? यदि 
नही , लो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[ सं० एल० / 2012/ 76 / 71-एम०पार० -2 ] 

New Delhi , the 29th May 1971 
8 . 0 . 3073.-.- Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Ramagundam Division, Post Office Godavarl Khant , ( Andhra 


4318 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II 


Pradesh ) and their workmen ip respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947), the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T . Chandrasekhara Reddy . as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Afzaf 
Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote , Hyderabad -I , and refers the said dispute for adjudi -- 
cation to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Singarent Collieries Company Limited , Rama 

gundam Division , Post Omce Godavari Khani (Andhra Pradesh ) are 
Justified in terminating the services of Sarvashri Metta Lingalah . Salla 
Manthaiab and Syed Jani, Loading and Un - loading Mazdoors in the 
Coal Screening Plant, Godavari Khani, Ramagundam Divísion - I with 
effect from the 30th August , 1970 ? If not , to what relief are the 
workmen entitled ? 

[ No. 7/ 50 / 70 - LR.II.] 


नई दिल्ली , 29 मई , 1971 
का० प्रा० 3073. - यत केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबन्ध अनुसची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे मे सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटड , रामागुंडम डिवीजन , डाक घर गोदावरी खनी 
( माध्रप्रदेश ) से सम्बन्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मचारियों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यत. केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिएनिर्देशित करना वांछनीय समझती 


अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7 - 2 और 
धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खन्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा एक प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित करती है , जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री०टी० 
चन्द्रशेखर रेड्डी होंगे, जिसका मुख्यालय अफजल लौज , तिलक रोड , रामकोट हैदराबाद - 1 होगा 
पौर उबत विवाद को उबत प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
क्या सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड, रामागडम डिवीजन , डाकघर गोदावरी खनी 
( मांध्र प्रदेश ) के प्रबन्ध मंडल का कोल स्क्रीनिंग प्लाट, गोदावरी खनी , रामागुंडम डिवीजन - 1 में 
सर्वश्री मेट्टा लिगयाह, साल्ला मथैयाह, साल्ला ममथयाह और सैयद जानी, लोडिग और अन - लोडिग 
मजदूरों की 30 अगस्त , 1970 से सेवाएं समाप्त करना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस 
अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 

[ सं० 7/ 50/ 70 - एल० प्रार० - 2 ] 


S . O . 3074 , — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 
Messrs. Bhowrà Colliery of Messrs, Orintal Coal Company Limited , Post Once 
Bhowra , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore . in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrlal Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 


Sec. 3 ( il) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 4319 


Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 1 ) . Dhanbad constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the action of the management of Messrs. Bhowta Colliery of 

Messrs . Oriental Coal Compay Limited , Post Office Bhowra , District 
Dhanbad , in not making permanent Shri Jagdish Bhulan, Smt . Dholl 
Bhulan , Smt. Munkwa Bhuian and Smt. Kapurwa Bhuian , Stacker 
Mazdoors and in stopping them from work with effect from the 5th 

March, 1971 is justied ? If not , to what relief are the workmen 
entitled ? " 


[ No. L / 2012/ 88 / 11 - LRIL .] 


का० प्रा० 3074. - - मत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की सय है कि इससे उमाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स ओरियंटल कोल कम्पनी , लिमिटेड , डाकघर भौरा, जिला 
धनबाद की मैमर्स नौरा कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
- प्रोद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


अतः अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) को धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदान शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एनवारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय 
सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण (संख्या 1 ) धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसची 


" क्या मैसर्स प्रो रयंटल को । कम्पनी लिमिटेड, डाकबर भौरा, जिला धनबाद की मैसर्स 
मौरा कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध 1 को भी जादोरा मुइया, श्रीमतो धोलो भुइयां , श्रीमती मुन्कवा भुइयां 
पौर श्रीमती कुर्वा यां कर मजदूरों को स्थायी न करने और उन्हें 5 मार्च, 1971 से काम 
करने से रोकने को कार्रवाई न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? । 


[सं० एल०/ 2012/ 68/ 71-एल०पार० -2] 


New Delhi, the 5th June 1971 


S . O . 3075. - Where is the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial dis 
pute exists between the enployers in relation to the management of New Govindpur Colliery 
Post Office Katrasgarh , District D :19nbad and their work non in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed : 


And where is the Central Government considers it deelrable to refer the said dispute for 
adjudication ; 


Now therefore , in exercise of th : powers conferred by clausc (d ) of sub -section (1) , 
of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1917 ), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the CentralGovernment Industrial Tribuna 1 (No . 1), 
Dhanbad , const tuted und r secton 7A of the said Act. 


4320 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAYANA 30 , 1893 [PART II 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the following 96 Miners ( coal cutters ) of Bottom Incline of New Govindpu 

Colliery , Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhanbad are entitled to wages for the period 
of their idleness with effect from the 6th February , 1968 to the 14th February, 1968 ? 
If not, to what other relief the workmen are entitled 7 " 


Nemc 


Designation 


No. 


Mines 


Hono 


.......... 


IO 
II 
12 


13 


. 


.................... 


NONANNO 

+ 


Shri Mangal Mahato 
» Khage Mahato 
, Jairam Mahato 
» Toppa Mahato 
,, Ledo Mahato c /o Jadu Mahato . 

Bhuklal Mahato 
Janki Mehato 
Mohan Mahato 
Shyamlal Mahato 

Raghunath Mahato 
» Govind Mabato 

Ganesh Mahato 

Hari Singh . 
» Phari Dhobi 

Bihari Dhobi 
> Rameshwar Dhobi 
» Dilawar Mian 

Haiyat Mian 
Jilku Rajwar 
Etwari Chamar 
Ch . Moti Chamar 
Ch . Bhudhan Chamar , 
Ch . Sukar Chamar 
Nanhu Chamar 
Ch . Kishan Chamar 
Ch . Banwari Chamar 
Kamdeo Chamar 
Chedi Chamar No. 2 
Doman Chamar 
Br . Banshi Chamar 
Kheman Chamar 
Ch , Chhotu Chamar 
Parmoshwar Chamar . 
Ratan Chamar 
Br, Ruplal Chamar 
Balku Chamar 
Suku Chamar 
Rupan “ Chamar 
Bhikari Chamor 
Mehgan Chamar 
Pandu Chamas 
Ch . Sarju Chamar 
Bhola Chamar 
Kharkee Mahato 
B . Chhotu Chamar 
Puran Chamar 
Jogeshwar Chæmar 
Chhodi Chamar 
Debi Chamar 
Gopal Chamar 
Puna Chamar 
Sambhu Bauri 

Hari Bauri . 
» 

B . Sanoo Chamar 
Madhuwa Chamar 


.................................. 


...................................................... 


3 


IN 


................................... 


.............................. 


» 


12 


...... 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21. 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4321 


Name 


Designation 


No. 


- 


••••••••••. 


65 


" 


Shri Lodwa Chamar 
, Chunịa Chamar 

Ch. Somra Chamar . 
Latlaha Chamar 
Budhuwa Chamar 
Jharia Chamar 
Kiti Chamar 
Bhakru Chamar 
B . Churaman Mahato . 
Babulal Das 
Ch, Jhagroo Chamar 
B . Margri Chamar 
Haria Chamar 
Degwa Chamar s /o Pilia Chamar 
Tekba Chamar s / o Manika Chamar 
Ch. Ruplal Chamar 
Indra Chamar 
Thakur Majhi 
Benga Bouri 
Thamta Bouri 

Ramlal Chamar 
, Churaman Chamar 

Alohan Chamar 
Prasadi Chamar 
Bara Kishun Chamar 
Brihaspatia Chemar 
Dhanjia Chamar 
Vishwanath Chamar 
Lakhia Kumhar 
Mukund Turi 
Chhora Mangal Cham 
Mouji Chamar 
Shyamlal Chemar 
Panchu Chamar 
Bikhoo Chamar 
Bars Moti Chamar 
Mithoo Chamar 
Bara Sukho Chamar . 
Lalji Chamar 

Chandulal Manjhi 
» Bara Banwari Chamar 


• 
• 
• 
• 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


....... 


•.....•••••••.... 


••••••••••••••••••••••••• 


H [ No. L/ 20 


नई दिल्ली, 5 जून , 1971 


फा० प्रा० 307 5. - ~~यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयो के बारे मे न्य गोविन्दपुरी कोलियरी, डाकघर कतरसगढ़ , जिला , धनबाद के प्रबन्ध 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और उनके कर्मकारो के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


प्रतः अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
डन विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - 2 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक 
प्राधिकरण ( संख्या 1 ) , धनबाद , को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


4222 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


अनुसूची 
" क्या न्य गोविन्दपूर कोलियरी डाकघर कतरसगन , जिला धनबाद , की बोटम इकलाइन के 
निम्नलिखित 96 खनिक ( कोयला काटने वाले ) 6 फरवरी, 1968 से 14 फरवरी, 1968 तक की 
उनकी बेकारी की अवधि के लिए मजदूरी के हकदार है ? यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के 
हकदार हैं ? 


क्रमांक 


नाम 


पदनाम 


खनिक 


11. 


13. 


1. श्री मंगल महातो 

, , खागे महातो 

,, जयराम महातो 
4 . टोप्पा महातो 

, , लेडो महातो द्वारा जादु महातो 
, , मुकलाल महातो 
., जानकी महातो 
,, मोहन महातो 
,, श्यामलाल महातो 

रघुनाथ महातो 
,, गोविन्द महातो 
,, गणेश महातो 

, हरि सिह 
14 . ,, फारी धोबी 

, बिहारी धोबी 
, रामेश्वर धोबी 
,, दिलावर मियां 
,, हैयात मियां 
,, जिलकु राजबाउ 
, एतवारी चमार 
, चौ० मोती चमार 
,, पौ० भुधान चमार . 
, चौ० सुकर चमार . 
,, चौ० नन्हू चमार . 
, चौ० किशन चमार . 
,, चौ० बनवारी चमार . 
,, कामदेव चमार . 
,, चोदी चमार संख्या 2 
दोमन चमार 

० मंशी चमार 
31 . ,, खेमन चमार 
32. , चौ० छोटू चमार . 


21. 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 4323 


क्रमांक 


नाम 


पदनाम 


खनिक 


33. श्री परमेश्वर चमार 
34. , रत्न चमार 
35. 50 रूपलाल चमार . 

,, बल्कु चमार 
" सुकु चमार . 
,, रूपन चमार 
, , भिखारी चमार 

मेवन चमार 
. 41. , , पांडु चमार 

,, चौ० सर्ज चमार . 

भोला चमार 
, , खरकी महातो 

,, बी० छोटू चमार 
46. ,, पूरन चमार 

,, जोगेश्वर चमार 
, , छेदी चमार 

, , देवी चमार 
. 50. गोपाल घमार 

पुना चमार 
52. 
5 3. ,, हरि बौरी 
54. ,, बी० सानुचमार 
55. , , माधुवा चमार 
56. , , लेदवा चमार 
:57. ,, चुनिया चमार 

,, चौ० सोम्रा चमार 
...59. ,, लतलाहा चमार 
.. 60 . ,, बुधुवा चमार 
61. ,, झरिया चमार 
62. किटि चमार 

भाऊ चमार 
" 64. , बी . चुरामन महातो 
___ , बाबुलाल दास 

चौ० झगरु घमार 
,, बी० मांग्रा चमार . 
,, हरिया चमार 

,, देगवा चमार पात्मज पिलीया घमार 
70. टेकबा चमार पात्मज मनिका चमार 


, , साम्भ बोरी 


. 


1224 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II 


क्रमांक 


नाम 


पदनाम 


+ 


- 


खनिक 


71. श्री चौ० रूपलाल चमार 
72. ,, इन्द्रा थमार 

,, ठाकुर माझी 
, , बैगा बौरी . 
,, झाम्ता बौरी 
" रामलाल चमार 
" बुरामन चमार 

, , मोहन चमार 
79. ,, प्रसादी चमार 
80. , बारा किशन चमार . 

वहस्पतिया चमार 
धनजिया चमार 
विश्वनाथ चमार 

,, लखिया कुम्हार 
85. , , मुकुन्द तूरी 

,, छोटा मंगल चमार 
,, मौजी चमार 

श्यामलाल चमार 
89. , पंचु चमार 

, बिखू चमार 

करा मोती चमार 
92 . ,, मिथू चमार 
93. , बारा सुखो चमार 

लालजी चमार 
95. , , चांदुलाल मांझी 

,, बारा बनवारी चमार 


[ सख्या एल0 / 2012/ 19/ 71 - एल०मार० - 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 17th June 1971 
8 . 0 . 3076 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Central 
Sulunga Colliery of Messrs. Purusottampur Colliertes Private Limited , Post 
Office Jharia , District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No . 1 ) , Dhanbad, constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act . 


Sec . 3( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21. 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4325 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Gohali Mian , Overman , by the management 

of Central Sulunga Colliery of Messrs . Purusottampur Collieries 
Private Limited , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad with effect from 
the 22nd December , 1970 is justified ? If not , to what relief is the 
workman entitled ? " 

[ No. L / 2012 / 15 / 71 - LRII . ! 
नई दिल्ली, 17 जून , 1971 
का० प्रा० 3076 . - - यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद अनुसूयी में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स पुरुसोत्तमपुर कोलियरीज प्राइवेट लिमिटेड , डाकवर झरिया , 
जिला धनबाद की सेंट्रल सूल गा कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों मोर उनके कर्मकारों 
के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनियन के लिये निर्देशित करता वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


प्रतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधि 
करण ( संख्या 1 ) , धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स पुरुसोत्तम पुर कोलियरीज प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, डाकघर झरिया , जिला 
धनबाद की सेंट्रल सुलुंगा कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमण्डल द्वारा श्री गोहाली मियां , अोवर 
मैन , की 22 दिसम्बर , 1970 से पदच्युत करना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नही, तो कर्मकार 
किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[ सं० एल० 2012 / 75 / 7 1-एल० मार० 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 29th June 1971 
S . O . 3077 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Mahabir 
Colliery , Post Once Raniganj, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dspute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 


EDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Mahabir Colliery , Post Office 

Raniganj, District Burdwan in refusing employment to Sarvashri 
Gopal Hemram , Sankar Majhi, Khepa Hemram , Sukhu Majhi, Badan 
Majhi and Lattu Hari, Pick -miners, with effect from 23rd February , 
1971, 17th February, 1971 , 23rd February, 1971, 15th February, 1971 , 
15th February , 1971, 15th February, 1971 respectively is justified . If 
not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " 

[ No. L -1912( 66 ) / 71 - LRII. ] 


..1326 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II. 


- 


नई दिल्ली , 29 जून, 1971 
का मा० 3077, --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची 
में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में महावीर कोलियरी, डाकघर रानीगंज , जिला बर्ववान , के प्रबन्ध 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और उनके कर्मकारो के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान हैं । 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती हैं । 

अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुये, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधि 
करण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसची 
" क्या महावीर कोलियरी, डाकघर रानीगंज , जिला बर्दमान के प्रबन्धमंडल की 
सर्वश्री गोपाल हेमराम , संकरमाझी , खेपा हेमराम, सुखु माझी, बादन माझी और लटू, 
हरि , कुदाली - खनिकों को क्रमश: 23 फरवरी, 1971, 17 फरवरी , 1971, 
23 फरवरी, 1971, 15 फरवरी, 1971, 15 फरवरी, 1971 और 15 फरवरी , 
1971 से रोजगार इन्कार करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार 
किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 

[स० एल० 1912 ( 65 )/ 71 -एल० आर०- 2] 

New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 
S . O . 3078. - - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Damra 
Colliery of Messrs. Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited , Post Office 
Kalipahari, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the refusal of work to Shri Rambodh Ahir , Onsetter, from the 

20th May , 1970 to the 29th June, 1970 by the management of Damra 
Colliery of Messrs . Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited, Post 
Ofnce Kalipahari, District Burdwan is justified ? If not , to what 
relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No. L / 1912 /54/ 71 - LRII.] 


नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई, 1971 


का०मा० 3078. --- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे सम्बद्ध उपाबर 
अनसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स कतरस झेरियाह कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर 
काली पहाड़ी , जिला बर्दवान की दमरा कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके 
कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान हैं ; 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4327 " 


पौर यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद 
को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता 
को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये एतद्वारा निर्देशित करती है । 

मनसची 
" क्या मैसर्स कतरस मेरियाह कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकवर काली पहाड़ी , 
जिला बर्दवान की दमरा कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमण्डल द्वारा श्री रामबोध अहीर औनसैटर 
को 20 मई, 1970 से 29 जून , 1970 तक काम के लिये इन्कार करना न्यायोचित 
है ? यदि नहीं , तो फर्मकार फिस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[सं० एल० 1912/ 54/ 71-एल० प्रार० 2 ] 
New Delhi, the 28th July 1971 


8 . 0 , 3079 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of North 
Chora Colliery , Post Office Bahula , District Burdwan and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of North Chora Colliery, Post 

Office Bahula , District Burdwan in refusing employment to Sarvashri 
Bimal Banerjee, Mining Sirdar, with effect from the 10th June, 
1970, and to Sudhakar Mistry , Office Peon with effect from the 17th 
June, 1970 , is justified ? If not, to what relief are the workmen 
entitled ? " 

__ [ No. 6/ 105/ 70 - LRII.] 
नई दिल्ली , 26 जुलाई , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3079. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में नार्थ चोरा कोलियरी , डाकघर बाहला, जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध से 
सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित 
करना वांछनीय समझती हैं ; 


अत :, प्रब, प्रोपोगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खंड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुये, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार औ -- 
योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता , को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित कहती है । 


4328 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II .. 


अनुसूची 
" क्या नार्थ चोरा कोलियरी , डाकवर बाहला , जिला बर्दवान के प्रवन्ध की श्री 
बिमल बनर्जी, खनन सरदार, को 10 जून , 1970 से और सुधाकर मिस्त्री कार्यालय 
चपरासी को 17 जून , 1970 से रोजगार मना करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? 
यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस अनुमोष के हकदार है ? 

[40 6/ 105 / 70 - एल० आर० 2 ] 
New Delhi , the 28th July 1971 
S . 0 . 3080. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Agricul 
tural Farms Limited , owners of Ramayyampatti Lime Stone Quarry Post 
Talaiyuthu , and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constituted an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri K . Seetharama Rao , as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Madras and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Messrs . Agricultural Farms 

Limited , owners of Ramayyampatti Lime Stone Quarry , post 
Sankarnagar in removing the name of Shri Perumal Sudalaimuthu 
from the rolls of the Quarry with effect from the 3rd January , 1971 
is justified ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? " 

[ No . L - 29012 / 16 / 71 - LR- IV . ] 


नई दिल्ली, 28 जुलाई 1973 
का० प्रा० 308 0.--यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबब अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में रामाय्यमपट्री लाइम स्टोन क्वैरी डाकघर तलाएयुथ के मालिक - - एग्रीकल्चरल 
फार्मस सिमिटेड के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजको और उनके कर्मकारो के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है ; 

और यत केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वाजीय 
समझती है ; 

अत , अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7 -क और 
धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतद्वारा एक औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्रीके० सीथारा मा 
राब होगे जिनका मुख्यालय मद्रास होगा और उक्त विवाद को उक्त प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण को 
ज्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या रामाय्यमपट्टी लाइम स्टोन क्वैरी डाकघर संकरनगर के मालिकों - मैससं 
एग्रीकल्चरल फार्मस लिमिटेड के प्रबन्धमण्डल की श्री पेरुमल सूदालायमुथु के नाम को 
3 जनवरी 1971 से क्वरी की नामावली से हटाने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि 
नही सो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० एल० - 29012( 16 )/ 71- एल० पार० -4] 

मार० कुंजीथापदम , अवर सचिष । 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4329 


__ CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1971 
S . O . 3081, In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation Department of Labour and employment) 
No. S . O . 2113, dated 18th May , 1971 , published at pages 3064 to 3070 of the 
Gazette of India Part II - Section 3 - Sub - section ( ii) dated 29th May, 1971, at 
page 3066 , in line 7 , for " 5th October , 1965 " read " 5th October 1963 " . 

[ No. 30 ( 6) /70-LR-IV .] 
R . KUNJITHAPADAM , Under Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 26th July 1971 
S . O . 3082 - Whereas the Central Government having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause ( vi ) , 
of clausę ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
declared by the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) No . S . O . 859 dated the 20th January , 1971, any service in , or in connection 
with , the working of, any major port or dock , to be a public utility service for 
the purposes of the said Act, for a period of six months from the 5th February , 
1971; 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that public interest 
requires extension of the said period by a further period of six months ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause (vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said service to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 5th August , 1971 . 

[ No. F . S .11025 / 22 / 71 - LR- I. 1 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 26 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3082. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि लोक हित में 
ऐसा अपेक्षित है, कि औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 19 47 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड 
( ढ ) के उपखण्ड ( i ) के उपबन्धों के प्रसरण में , भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वा 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिसूचना सख्या का० प्रा० 859, तारीख 20 जनवरी , 
1971 द्वारा किसी भी महापत्तन या डाक में या उसके कामकाज के सम्बन्ध में किसी सेवा को उक्त 
अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 5 फरवरी, 1971 से 6 मास की कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी 
सेवा घोषित किया था ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त कालावधि को 6 मास की और 
कालावधि के लिए बढ़ाया जाना अपेक्षित है ; 

अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 2 के 
खण्ड ( ब ) के उपखण्ड ( i ) के परन्तुक प्रदस शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त सेवा के उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनों के लिए 5 अगस्त , 1971 से 6 मास और कालावधि 
के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित करती है । 

[ सं० फा० एस० - 11025/ 22/ 71- एल . पार० - 1] 


4330 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PART II 


New Delhi, the 11th August 1971 
S . O . 3088. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras in the Industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Indian Bank and their workmen , which was received by the Central 
Government on the 6th August , 1971 . 


BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADRAS 

Friday , the 23rd day of July , 1971 
PREŞENT : 
Thiru K . Seetharama Rao, B . A ., B .L . Industrial Tribunal. 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 16 OF 1971 
In the matter of the dispute for adjudication u / s. 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of the I. D . Act). 
1947 between a worker and the Indian Bank , Shevapet , Salem - 27 . 

BETWEEN 
Shri S . Duraiswamy, s / o V Subbarayulu Naidu , Dasainaickenpatty Village 

and P .O ., (via ) Panamarathupatti Road , Salem District. 


AND 


The manager , Indian Bank , Mariammankoil Street, Shevapet, Salem - 2. 
REFERENCE : 
Order No . 23 / 97 / 70 - LT. III / dated 31st December, 1970 of the Ministry of 

Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 

Employınent) Government of India , New Delhi, 
This dispute coming on for final hearing on Tuesday the 6th day of July , 1971. 
upon perusing the reference, claim and counter statement and all other material 
papers on record and upon hearing the arguments of Thiru N . V . Natesan , an officer 
of the Salem District Cinema Workers Union appearing for the worker and of 

Thiru G . Venkataraman , Advocate for Thiru B . R . Dolia , Advocate for the manage 
ment and having stood over tiil this day for consideration this Tribunal made the 
following : 

AWARD 
1. The issue for consideration is set out, as follows, in the Government of India . 
order dated 31st December, 1970 . 
" Whether the action of the management of the Indian Bank , Shevapet 

Branch , in terminating the services of Shri S . Duralswamy, Night 
Watchman , with effect from the 17th November , 1908 , is justified . 

not , to what relief is the workman entitled ?” 
2. The petitioner S , Duraiswamy contends that he worked as watchman for one 
year, 10 months and sixteen days on a monthly salary of Rs. 90 . The period is 
from 1st January , 1967 till 16th November , 1968, when it is that his services were 
suddenly terminated . Indian Bank has opened branches at several places and 
there was no need to send this worker away . 


2 . The management contended that the worker was a casual worker , given 
work , when there was work to do . The worker was not retrenched from seryice , 
The respondent Bank secured insurance coverage for all their branches , rendering 
It unnecessary . to employ watchman and there was no work available to give to 
the workman , The workman has not put in 240 days of service during 12 month s 
period proceeding the date 16th November , 1968 and hence in law . Section 
26 ( F ) and ( H ) of the Industrial Disputes Act cannot be availed of by the petitioner 
to claim any retrenchment compensation . 


4 . I am satisfied that M . W . 1 the Agent of the Indian Bank has spoken the 
truth that W . W . 1 was appointed only as a temporary watchman under Ex . M . 6 
letter on 3rd January, 1967 and he was paid at Rs. 3 per day of 8 hours work , on 
days that he had work to be given and not on other days. I find that Ex . M . 4 
correctly sets out the number of days that w . w . 1 worked in all during the period 
from 3rd January , 1967 till 17th November , 1968 . I find that Ex . M .4 correctly 
proved that W . W . 1 worked during the period from 1st November 1967 and 17th 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4331 

- - - - - -- - - - 
November 1968 only for 188 days ( 1 day is equal to 8 hours work ) . I agree that , 
if calendar year, is the critarion for the period from lst January , 1967 to 31st 
Deçember , 1967, W . W . 1 worked for 316 days, but then Section 25 ( F ) and ( H ) of 
the Industrial Disputes Act refers to 12 months period proceeding the date of 
discharge and not that 12 months could be commuted from 1st January , 1967. The 
12 months period preceding the date of discharge is to commence from 17th Nov 
ember , 1967 and one finds that, during the period from 1st November , 1968 to 17th 
November 1968, WW . 1 worked for only 188 days and that being so , he is not en 
titled , in law , to notice pay or retrenchment compensation . I find accordingly . 

5 . Secondly , it is definite that every branch of Indian Bank is under Insurance 
coverage (renewal insurance policy is Éx . M . 5 ) and that being so , the policy of the 
Bank from November , 1968 has been to stop engaging of watchman to watch the 
Bank by day or night. The above policy of putting a stop to appointing a watch 
man for any Branch is what is spoken to by M . W . 1 and is proved by him by 
Aling Ex . M , 5 . I agree that Ex , M . 7 circular only proves this , that temporary 
appointments were to be terminated , immediately the period of sanction for the 
same got over . 

6 . The cvidence of W . W . 1 that he was a monthly paid employee is not true. 
He admitted that he was paid under vouchers like Exs, M1, M2 and M3. He could 
not deny that Ex . M 4 correctly set out correct particulars of work done by him 
at the Indian Bank Ex , M6 order reads that w . W . 1 was appointed as a tempo 
rary hand and not that he was cver appointed , on a permanent basis . In my view , 
in view of the insurance coverage Policy , no permanent or temporary watchman 
is being recruited in any branch of the Indian Bank ( and that because of no 
watchman scheme) and hence , it is proper and correct that a temporary worker 
like W . W . 1 was discharged . I agree that Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes 
Act specifically refers to continuous period of work , l or not less than one year , in 
that undertaking , immediately before such closure . Section 25F however , merely 
reads that no workman employed in any industry , who has been in continuous 
service for not less than one year, etc . etc. The Supreme Court had already 
clarified the issue under Section 25FF that the period of one year should date back , 
from the date when the undertaking was closed . In my view , whether there is 
closure or retrenchment, the relevant date is the dato when the worker is not emp 
loyed , and conti lous period has to be calculated for one year preceding the date 
of discharge of the worker concerned , unless it be that the worker is a permanent 
worker that is , he need not involve section 25 (b ) of the I. D . Act. In our case , the 
worker is a temporary worker , who got work , if there was work to do. Moreover , 
the department of watch and ward in every branch of the Indian Bank has been 
closed down and consequently , this worker has been discharged , and so , in reality , 
Section 25FFF is the only section that the worker can Invoke and the period of one 
year is to be computed backwards from the date of discharge , and during that 
period mentioned above , this worker was not in continuous service , (as did not with 
a period of 240 days during that period ) as defined in Section 25 (b ) of the I. D . 
Art I (ind that W . W . 1 was a casual and a temporary worker employed only on 
need basis , Iſ there was work to do and he is not entitled to any relief, as, " no 
watchman scheme" , has been introduced in every branch in Indian Bank and so 
there is no scope to employ him . The award is so pagsed . 
Dated, the 23rd day of July 1971, 

( Sd .) K . SEETHARAMA RAO , 

Industrial Tribunal. 
Witnesses Examined : 
For worker : 

W .W .1, Thiru S . Doraiswamy (himself ). 
For management : 
W . W . 1. Thiru A . G . Venugopal, Agent, Indian Bank , Shevapet, Salem , 

Documents Marked 
For worker ; 

Ex. W . 1 Accounts book showing wages paid to W . W . 1. 
For management 

Ex .M , 1 / 23.12.67 Voucher for Rs. 15 , 
Ex.M . 2 / 20 .1.68 Voucher for Rs. 12 . 


4332 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [PART II — 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Ex .M . 3// 25 .4 .68 Voucher for Rs. 9 . 
Ex - M . 4 ) . . Statement showing wages paid to W . W . 1 in the years 1967 and 

1968. 
Ex.M .5 / 1. 11.69 Insurance policy No. TR / 9888 of the All India General 

Insurance Co ., Ltd., Tiruchirapalli. 
Ex . M .6 / 2 . 1 .67 Letter from Indian Bank Ltd .. Madras- 1 to Shevapet Branch , 

Salem stating to terminate the services of one V . Subbarayalų . 
Ex.M . 7 / 9. 11.68 Circular No. 102 / 68 issued by the Indian Bank Ltd . regard 
Ing temporary employees . 

(Sd.) K . SEETHARAMA RAO , 

Industrial Tribunal, 
[No. 23 / 97 / 70 / LRIII. 1 


New Delhi, the 12th August 1971 


S . O . 3084 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following Aivard of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay No. 2 in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Limited , Bombay and their workmen , 
which was recelved by the Central Government on the 9th August , 1971, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO . 2 , 

BOMBAY 

REFERENCE No. CGIT- 2 / 2 of 1971 
Employers in relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Limited , Bombay. 


AND 


Their workmen , 


Represented by the Central Insurance Employees Union , Bombay , 


PRESENT : 

Shri N . K . Vani, Presiding Officer , 


Joint Branch 


APPEARANCES : 
For the Employers. — 1. Shri M . M . Chakrabarty , Group 

Manager . 
2 . Shri S . V . Mokashi, Labour Adviser . 
For the Workmen . — 1, Shri J. G . Gadkari, Advocate . 
2 . Shri M . T . Manwatkar. 


INDUSTRY : General Insurance 

STATE : Maharashtra . 
Bombay , dated the 30th July , 1971 

AWARD 
By order No. L - 17012 / 1 / 71 -LR . I, dated 10th March , 1971 the Central Govern 
ment in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) 
of Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947 ) referred to this 
Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute existing between the employers in 
relation to the Atlas Assurance Company Ltd ., Bombay and their workmen 
represented by the General Insurance Employees Union , Bombay as set forth in 
the Schedule mentioned below : 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether Shri M . T . Manwatkar , Superintendent in Atlas Assurance Com 

pany Limited , Bombay who has reached the maximum of his scale , is 
entitled to additional increment under the settlement dated the 30th 
October , 1969 for having passed an insurance examination , " 


Sec . 3 ( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21. 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4333 


2 . Facts giving rise to this reference are as follows: 
( i) Shri M . T . Manwatkar is an employee of the Atlas Assurance Company 

Limited , Bombay since January , 1949. He passed the Indian Insurance 

Institute examinations as mentioned be.ow in the respective years . 
(1) Licentiate cxamination January 1965 . 
( ii ) Associateship Examination Part I-- February 1966 . 
( 111 ) Associateship Examination Part II — February 1967. 
( iv ) Fellowship examination Section 1 — January 1968 . 
(ii ) The General Insurance Employees Union , Bombay submitted a Charter 

of demands on 22nd March , 1965 . In that connection a joint appli 
cation for adjudication under Section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 was made on 13th August , 1965 by the company and the 
Union , The said application was referred to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. It was numbered as Ref. No.CGIT / 61 
of 1965. In that reference there was a settlement betwcen the parties 
on 30th October, 1969. On the basis of this settlement Award dated 

1st December, 1969 was made. 
( ili) As per clause 3 of the Sottlement dated the 30th October , 1969 (Ex . 2 / E ) 

llie employee Shri M . T . Manwatkar was placed in Special Clerical 
Grade i. e . Rs. 270 - 20 - 350 - 25 - 550 and his basic salary as on 30th April , 
1965 has been filled in the revised salary scale as mentioned below : 
Basic salary as on 39 - 4 - 68 

Rs. STO 
Hlus 

Rs. 10 


mota 


Rs. 521 


Iitting i to Grace 
Tlue one i çriment 


Rs. 523 
Rs. 25 


Total 


R4, 550 


( iv ) As Shri Manwatker s pay was revised and Axed in the special clerical 

grade at Rs. 550 it is clear that he reached his maximum of his scale 

012 3014 April, 1968 . 
( v ) According to clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement dated the 30th 

October, 1969 ( Ex . 2 / E ) Atlay Assurance Company Limited , Bombay 
is required to adopt the scheme applicable to workmen employed by 
Guardian Assurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay , for rewarding clerical staff on 
passing Insurance examinations. The provision as mentioned below 
was made in the settlement dated the 17th November, 1962 of the 
Guardian Assurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay : 


" Special increments — the staff in future will be given special increments 

as detailed below : --- 
One scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance 

Institute Examination and / or Indian Insurance Institute Examina - - 

tion ." 
( vi) The settlement dated the 30th October, 1969 Ex . 2 / E was niade effective 

from 1st May, 1968. In view of this the company was required to give 
special increments to its employees on passing the examinations 
mentioned above in future with effect from 1st May , 1968, 


( vii) On the basis of Clause 7 in the Settlement, dated 30th October, 1988 

(Ex . 2 / E ) the employee Shri Mụnwatkar claimed four scale incre 
ments from the company. As the company refused to give him these 
increments , the Atlas Insurance Company Limited (hereinafter 
referred to as the Company ) and the General Insurance Employees 
Union , Bombay (hereinafter referred to as the Union ) made a joint 
application to the Central Government for referring this dispute to 
an Industrial Tribunal. The Central Government therefore referred 
this dispute to this Tribunal. 


3. On the receipt of this reference notices were issued to the parties to filo 
their written Statements . 


4334 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II 


4 . Shri M , M . Chakrabarty , Group Joint Branch Manager of the Atlas 
Assurance Company Limited has filed written statement on behalf of the com 
pany on 8th April 1971 vide annexure A to the Award . 

5 . The company contends that Shri Manwatkar is not entitled to four incre 
ments because 
(1) Shri Manwatkar has reached the maximum of his scale of Rs, 550 prior 

to 1st May 1968, and ; 
( ii) He passed the Indian Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May 1988 

und the settlement dated 30th October 1969 became effective from 

1st May 1968 onwards. 
6 . Shri K . S . B . Pillai, General Secretary of the General Insurance Employees 
Union , Bombay has filed written statement at Ex . 3 / W vide annexure B to the 
Award 
7. According to nim ; 
( i) As per the provisions regarding special increments , one increment in 

the scale is to be granted on passing cach part of the Ingurance 
Examination . What is contemplated is that a special increment 
equivalent to one scale increment is to be granted on passing each 
part of the Insurance Examination . These increments have nothing 
to do with the scale and the maximum of the scale , It is quite clear 
from the word special increments that these increments are to be 
granted for the attainment of special qualifications, and the 
en ployecs obtaining such qualifications, are entitled to additional 
bencfits of special increments over and above the salary scales they 
would be entitled to even without obtaining these special qualifica 
tious. What is intended is that the persons obtaining qualifications 
per caining to industry should consistently and continuously carn 
more than the employees who are without such qualifications but with 
equal number of years scrvice . If this intention is taken into account 
it will be easily realised that the word special is used with purpose 
of giving a special benefit to such hard working and conscientious 
employees for ever . If the intention had been to deny the special 
increments on reaching maximum of the scale or to make it part and 
parcel of the scale , the words subject to the maximum would have 
appeared in the settlement pertaining to provision of special incre 
ments . Shri Manwatkar therefore be given increment though he 

has reached the maximum of his scale . 
( ii) The company s contention that Shri Manwatkar is not entitled to special 

increments as he has passed the examinations prior to Ist May 1968 , 
is erroneous and displays a malafide attitude of the management. It 
is quite clear from the clause cited by the Company itself that such 
persons who weic not granted special increments prior to the settle 
ment become entitled to the same from the cffcctive date of the 

settlement. 
( iii ) The whole purpose of the settlement is to grant special benefit to the 

employees who acquire special qualifications and should be inter 
preted in the manner conducive of its purpose . Shri Manwatkar is 
therefore entitled to four special increments from 1st May 1968 and 

the company be directed to pay the same accordingly . 
8 . Points for consideration are as follows:-- 
(i ) whether Shri M . T . Manwatkar , Superintendent in Atlas Assurance 

Company Limited , Bombay is entitled to get one scale increment for 

passing each part of Indian Insurance Institute Examination ? 
( ii) What order ? 
9. My findings are as follows:- - 

( i ) No. 
( ii) As per order . 


Reasons 


Point Nos . I and II 

10 . It is common ground that Shri Manwatkar has passcd the examinations in 
question prior to 1st May , 1968 and not after 1st May, 1968 . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4335 
- - = = - 

- - - - 
11 . Shri Mokashi, Labour Adviser for the cumpany contends that Shri 
Manwatkar is not entitled to get the increments for passing the examinations in 
question because he passed the examinations prior to 1st May 1968 . In support 
of this contention he relics on the provision regarding granting of special incre 
ments referred to above. 

12 . The learned Advocate Shri Gadkari appearing on behalf of the Union con 
tends that the company s contention that Shri Manwalkar is not entitled to special 
increments because he passed the examinations in question prior to ] st May 1968, 
is erroneous and displays a malafide intention of the mạnagement. He further 
submits that it is quite clear from the clause cited by the company itself that 
persons who were not granted special increments prior to the date of settlement 
become entitled to the same from the effective date of the settlement, and that 
the purpose of the settlemnt is to grant special benefit to the employees who 
acquire special qualifications. 

13. In my opinion the argument advance by Shri Gadkari referred to above 
cannot be accepted . 

14 . From the clause regarding increments referred to in para , 2 ( v ) , it is 
crystal clear that the staff of Atlas Assurance Company Limited , Bombay was to 
be given special increments i. e . one scale increment for passing each part of 
Chartered Insurance Institute Examination and /or Indian Insurance Institute 
examination , in future. Admittedly the settlement came into force with effect 
from 1st May 1968. As the settlement came into force with effect from 1st May 
1968, it will be clear from the plain reading of the clause regarding granting of 
special increments that the members of staff were to be given special increments 
1 .e ., one scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute 
Examination and / or Indian Insurance Institute Examination with cflect from 1st 
May 1968 onwards , 

15 . If the intention would have been to give special increments to the 
employces who have passed examinations prior to 1st May 1968 , clause regarding 
special increments would have so specifically mentioned . It would have men 
tioned that special increments would be given to the employees who have already 
passed the Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May 1968 and who would pass 
later on . In my opinion the expression in future used in the clause leaves no 
room to doubt that the intention of the parties was to allow special increments 
only to those cmployees who would pass Insurance Examinations in future, t. e . 
from 1st May 1968 , onwards. It cannot be, therefore scid that the intepretation 
sought to be plactd by the company in this respect is in any way unreasonable , 
impropei and erroneous. 

16 . Shri Mokashi, Labour Adviser for the company contends that Shri 
Manwatkar is not entitled to get onc scale increment for possing each part of 
Indian Insurance Institute examination , with effect from 1st May 1968 because 
he had reached the maximum of the scale in the Special Clerical Grade of Rs. 270 — 
20 - 350 — 25 — 550 on 30th April 1968, i.e ., priod to 1st May , 1968. 

17. The learned Advocate Shri Gadkari for the Union contends that if the 
intention had been to deny the special increments on r ching the maximum of 
the scale or to make it part and parcel of the smole , this words subject to the 
maximum would have appeared in the clause pertaining to provi ion of special 
increments and that it is quite clear from the words special increments that these 
increments are to be granted for the attalnment of special qualifications and the 
employees obtaining such qualifications are entitled to additional benefits of 
special increments over and above the salary scales they would be eptitled to even 
without obtaining these special qualifications. 

18 . It is true that it is not mentioned in the clause regarding special incrc 
ments that subject to maximum of the pay scale , special increments would be 
given . In my opinion it is not necessary to moke mention of this in this clause 
because the clause clearly says that one scale increment would be given for 
pageing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute Examination and / or Indir 
Insurance Institute Fxamination . It means that at the time of passing examina 
tion if a particular employee had reached the maximum of the scale ou pay , there 
would be no further increment in the scale of pay available for - nim . as he would 
not be entitled to any increment in the scale of pay allur i ngching the maximum 
of his scale , He cannot be given any addition scale increment 

19. If it would have been the intention to allow special increments to the 
employees passing insurance examination fven after they reach the maximum of 
the scale of pay , it would have been mentioned in special increments clause that 


4336 THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [Part II 


one scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Institute 
Examination and / or Indian Insurance Institute Examination should be treated as 
special pay or personal pay in addition to the normal scale of pay of the employee 
concerned . As this has not been so specifically mentioned in the clause special 
increments , the interpretation sought to be placed by Shri Gadkari on it cannot 
be accepted . In my opinion the interpretation sought to be placed by the com 
pany appears to be reasonable and proper . 

20 . While interpreting the clause regarding special increments , one has to rcad 
the clause as it stands. One cannot add any new words or subtract any word . 
The plain meaning of this clause is that special increments for passing Insurance 
Examinations are to be given to those employees who would pass the examination 
in future i.e . from Ist May 1968 onwards and who have not reached the maximum 
of the scale before passing the examination . Hence Shri Manwatkar is not 
entitled to additional increment under the settlement dated 30th October 1969, for 
having passed Insurance Examinations prior to 1st May, 1968. 
21. In view of the above findings, I pass the following Order : 

ORDER 
( 1) It is hercby declared that Shri Manwatkar , Superintendent, in Atlas 

Assurance Company Limited , Bombay , who has reached the muximum 
of his scale , is not entitled to additional increment under the settle 
ment dated the 30th October , 1969 for having passed any insurance 

examination , 
( ii ) Award is made accordingly . 
(iii ) No order as to costs . 

( Sd .) N . N , VAT, 

Presiding Omcer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal No . 2 , 

Bombay . 

30 - 7 - 71. 
ANNEXURE A 
BEFORE SHRI N . K . VANI, B RESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIFUNAL AT BOMBAY 
REFERENCE No. CGIT -22 OF 1971 

BETWEEN 

Atlas Assurance Co. Ltd . Bombay 
Atlas Assurance Co ., Ltd . Bombay 

AND 
Their workmen 
MAY IT PLEASE THE HON . TRIBUNAL ; Atlas Assurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay , 
hereinafter referred to shortly as the Company , begs to flle its written statement 
in the abovementioned matter as under : 

1 . The Company submits that the General Insurance Employees Union , Bom 
bay , submited a Charter of Demands on the 22nd March 1965 and a joint applica 
tion for adjudication under Section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was 
made on the 13th August. 1965 by the Company and the Union . The said appli 
cation was referred to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , 
under Ref . No. CGIT / 67 of 1965 and an Award datcd 1st December 1969 was given 
in terms of the Memorandum of Settlement, Datcd 30th October 1989 , a copy of 
which is enclosed . 

2 . According to Clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement, dated 30th Octo 
ber 1969, our Company is required to adopt the scheme applicable to workmoni 
emplopt by Guardian Assurance Company, Limited , Bombay , for rewarding 
clerical staff - on passing Insurance examinations . The following provision was 
made in the Settleinent datcu 17th November 1962 of Guardian Assurance Co 
Ltd ., Bombay : 
" Special increments. The staff in future will be given special increments 

as detailed below : 
One scale increment for passing earh part of Chartered Insurance Institute 

Examination and / or Indian Insurance Institute Examination , 


Sec . 3 ( li) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4337 


3. The Company submits that according to the above provisions one increment 
in the scale is to be granted on passing each part of the Insurance examinations. 

4 . The company submits that as per Clause 3 of the settlement Mr. M . T , 
Manwatkar was placed in Special Clerical Grade i. e . Rs. 270 _ 20350 _ 25_ 550 
and his basic salary as at 30th April 1968 has been fitted in the revised salary 
scale in the following manner : 
Basic salary as on 30 - 4 - 68 

Rs . 520 
Ilus 

Rs. 10 


Rs. 520 


Fitting into grade 
plus one increment 


R . 
Rs. 


525 
25 


Total 


Rs. 550 


The Company further submits that Mr. Manwatkar thus reached the maximum of 
his scale and therefore, he could not be granted any increments for passing 
Insurance Examinations. 

5 . The Company submits that any workman , having his salary within the scale 
and receiving increments also within the scale by virtue of his passing the 
Insurance examination , will reach the maximum of his scale in due course and 
thereafter, no further increment will be payable to him . If Mr. Manwatkar is 
given additional increment/ s as claimed , any other workman would be claiming 
that the increments for passing the examinations are always in addition to the 
maximum of the scale , whether ul not the examinations are passed before or 
after reaching the maximum of this scale . The company , therefore , submits that 
the special increment provided in the Memorandum of Settlement is increment 
within the scale and not an additional increment. The Memorandum of Şettle 
ment does not provide such additional increment as would amount to extending 
the grade, 

6 . The company submits that Mr. Manwatkar reached the maximum of his 
scale after adjustment, as explained above, and as such no increment for passing 
insurance examinations could be granted to him ; for to do so would amount to 
extending the grade. 

7 . Mr. Manwatkar is employed since 3rd January , 1949 and has passed the 
following parts of insurance examinations on the dates mentioned against each 
part: 


Insurance xaurination 


Tart 


Date 


I . 


Associateship 


II 
Section I 


Feb . 1966 
T- eb . 1967 
Jan . 1968 


3 . 


selloughip 


The Company submits that since the scttlement dated 30th October 1969 
was made effective from 1st May , 1968 there is no case for granting increments 
for insurance examination completed prior to 1st May . 1968 . Mr. Manwatkar 
is , therefore, not entitled to claim any increments for examinations under Items 
1 to 3 above . As he has not completed any part after 1st May , 1968 , he is not 
entitled to claim any increment under Clause 7 of the said Memorandum of 
Settlement dated 30th October, 1969. 

8 . The Company submits that Mr. Manwatkar is not cntitled to additional in 
crements for having passed insurance examinations as there is no room to grant 
such increments in the scale applicable to him . The Company, therefore , sub 
mits that the demand should be rejected . 

9 . The Company craves leave to add , amend or alter the abovementioned 
written statement as and when considered necessary 

Atlas Assurance Company Limited , 

( Sd .) M , M . CHAKRABARTY , 

Group Joint Branch Manager , 
Bombay , 
Dated Bth April , 1971. 


4338 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 (PART 1) -- 


Verification 
I, M . M , Chakrabarty . Group Joint Branch Manager of the company above 
named , do hereby state on solemn affirmation that what is stated in the foregoing 
written statement is true to the best of my knowledge, information and belief . 
This verification is signed by me at Bombay this eighth day of April, 1971. 

( Sd .) M . M . CHAKRABARTY . 

ANNEXURE B 
BEFORE SHRI N K VANI, PRESIDING OFFICER , CENTRAL GOVERNMENT 

INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT BOMBAY 
Reference No. CGIT - 2 / 2 of 1971 

BETWEEN 
Atlas Assurance Co . Ltd ., Bombay . 


AND 

Their Workmen . 
MAY IT PLEASE THE HONOURABLE TRIBUNAL, 

The General Insurance Employees Union , Western Zone, Bombay do hereby 
gubmits its written statement in the above said dispute as follows: 

1. Shri M . T . Manwatkar who is employed as a Superintendent in Atlas Assu 
rance Company Limited , Bombay is the employee of the said Company since 
January , 1949, 

2 . Shri Mankwatkar passed the following Indian Insurance Institute examina 
tions in the respective years shown hereinbelow : 
( 1) Licentiate examination 

January , 1965 
( ii ) Associateship examination Part I 

February, 1966 
( iii) -do - Part II 

February, 1967 
( iv ) Fellowship examination Section I 

January , 1968 . 
3. That a settlement was arrived at between this Company and the General 
Insurance Employees Union , representing the workmen of this Company on or 
about 30th October , 1969 which was made effective from 1st May , 1968. As per 
the clause 7 of the Memorandum of Settlement, it was agreed that the scheme 
applicable to the workmen employed by the Guardian Insurance Company Limit 
ed , Bombay in respect of special increments on passing of insurance examinations 
be adopted by this Company . The scheme applicable in Guardian Insurance Com 
pany Limited was as follows: 
Special Increments .--- The staff , in future , will be given special increments 

as detailed below : 
" One scale increment for passing each part of Chartered Insurance Insti 

tute Examination and for Indian Insurance Institute Examination ." 
4 . The Union states that the company was bound to give Mr. Manwatkat four 
special increments effective from 1st May , 1968 ; each increment being equivalent 
to increment in the scale applicable to him . The Union states that on just, pro 
per , equitable and correct interpretation of the said clausc, Mr. Manwatkar was 
entitled to four special increments whether he had reached the maximum of the 
scale or not as these increments were specially due to him , apart from his scale 
increments , for having acquired special qualifications other than those entitling 
him for the employment and gradation in the employment of the Company . 


5 . The Union states that the management refused to pay him these special 
increment on the ground that the said employee reached the maximum of scale 
on 1st May, 1968 and hence these special increments are not due to him . The 
Union submits that this action of the management has been illegal, improper and 
also in violation of the latter , and spirit of the settlement dated 30th October , 
1969. 


6 . The management in its written statement dated 8th April, 1971 Aled in this 
Court has taken the same stand which may be rejected as being unreasonable and 
improper . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4339 . 

- : - - . .: . . . - - - - - - 


7. With reference to para 1 of the written statement of the Company, the 
Union states that the contents thereof are substantially true. 

8 . With reference to paragraph 2 of the said written statement of the Company . 
the Union states that the contents thereof are substantially true. 

9 . With reference to paragraph 3 of the said written statement of the Company , 
the Union denies that as per the provisions regarding special increments , one 
increment in the scale is to be granted on passing each part of the Insurance . 
Examination . The Union states that what is conceived is that a special increment 
equivalent to one scale increment is to be granted on passing each part of the 
Insurance Examination and therefore these increments have nothing to do with 
the scale and the maximum of the scale . 

10 . With reference to paragraph 4 of the said written statement of the Company , 
the Union states that it is true that Mr. Manwatkar reached the maximum as . 
shown in the said paragraph . The Union , however , denies that the Company 
could not grant any increment because Mr. Manwatkar had reached the maximum , 

11 . With reference to paragraph 5 of the said written statement of the Com 
pany , the Union states that the interpretation put by the Company regarding the 
Provision of special increment submitted in the same paragraph are erroneous and 
perverse . The Union states that it is quite clear from the word " special incre 
ments " that these increments are to be granted for the attainment of special 
qualifications and the employees obtaining such qualifications are entitled to 
additional benefits of special increments over and above the salary scales they 
would be entitled to even without obtaining these special qualifications. It is 
quite obvious that these increments are apart from the scales applicable to ordi- . 
nary employees without qualifications and have nothing to do with the maximum . 
The Union states that what is intended is that the persons obtaining qualifications . 
pertaining to industry (which is also in the interest of the industry and the Com 
panies ) should consistently and continuously earn more than the employees who 
are without such qualifications but with cqual number of years service . If this 
intention is taken into account it will be very easily realised that the word 
" special" is used with purpose of giving a special benefit to such hardworking 
and conscientious employees for ever . The Union states that the Company by its 
interpretation made in the said paragraph is introducing additional conditions , 
on the granting of special increments , neither conceived by the parties to the 
settlement for torming part of the settlement. The Union submits that had the 
intention been to deny the special increments on reaching maximum of the scale 
or to make it, the part and parcel of the scale, the words " subject to the maxi 
mum " would have appeared in the said clause of the settlement pertaining to 
provision of special increments , 

12 . With reference to paragraph 6 of the said written statement of the Company , 
the Union states that the allegations in the said paragraph are already replied 
to here and above. 

13 , With reference to paragraph 7 of the said written statement of the Com 
pany , it is submitted that the Company by oversight has forgotten to mention 
one more insurance cxamination passed by Mr. Manwaktar in the year 1965 . The 
Union further states that the Company s contention that Mr. Manwatkar is not 
entitled to special increments as he has passed the examinations prior to 1st May , 
1968 in erroneous and displays a malafide attitude of the management. It is 
quite clear from the clause cited by the Company itself that such persons who 
were not granted special increments prior to the settlement become entitled to 
the same from the effective date of the settlement. 

14 . The Union submits that the whole purpose of the settlement is to grant 
special bonefit to the employees who acquire special qualifications and should be 
interpreted in the manner conducive of its purpose. The Union states that the 
Tribunal may be pleased to make an award holding that Mr. Manwatkar is en 
titled to four special increments from 1st May , 1968 and direct the Company 
accordingly , 
Bombay: 
Dated , 26th April, 1971. 

( Sd .) K . s. B. PILLAI, 

General Secretary . 

VERIFICATION 
IK S . B . Pillai, do hereby amrm that the statements of facts made herein 
above arc true to my best knowledge and belief and information . 
Bomay : 
Dated 26th April , 1971. 

( Sd.) K . S , B , PILLAI. 
[No. F . L . 17012/1/71- LR .I. ] 


. 4340 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


- 


- - -- . . . . - - -- - .. - - - 

ORDER 


New Delhi , the 28th June 1971 


S . O . 3085 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National 
Bank and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule here 
to annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Governinent considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
: trial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Punjab National Bank , Central 

Circle, Indore in stopping the services of Shri Tej Bhan Taneja with 
effect from the 29th February 1968 and refusing to absorb him in 
the permanent vacancy is justified ? If not, to what relief is he 
entitled ? " 


[ No. L. 12012/ 2 /71 / LRIII. ] 
S . S . SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


प्रवेश 


नई दिल्ली , 28 जून, 1971 


का मा० 308 5. - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में पंजाब नेशनल बैंक से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच र 
औदयोगिक विवाद विदयमान है : 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निदेशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
खन्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त अधिनियम 
की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण जबलपुर को उक्त विवाद न्यायनिर्णयन के 
लिए निर्देशित करती है ; 

अनुसूची 
" क्या पंजाब नेशनल बैंक , सैन्दल सकिल इदौर के प्रबन्ध मंडल का 29 फरवरी, 1908 से श्री 
तेज भान तनेजा की सेवानों को रोकने और उसे स्थायी रिक्ति में प्रामलित करने से इंकार करने की 
कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो वह किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 


[ सं० एल० 120 12/ 2/ 71-- एल० प्रार० 3 ] 


एस० एस० सहस्रनामन, अपर सचिव । 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 4341 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th July 1971 
S . O . 3086. - Whereas the Central Government js of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 
Messrs . Peters and Smith ( India ) Private Limited , Calcutta and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A 
of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
1. " Whether the workmen engaged by Messrs . Peters and Smith ( India ) 
Private Limited, Calcutta , are justified in claiming the time scales as given below 
and dearness allowance at the rate prescribed by the Bengal Chambers of 
Commerce and Industry . 

If so , from which datę If not , to what secles /dearness allowance are they 
entitled and from what date ?" 

Grade I ( Accounts Clearks, Stenographers, Senior Licence Sirkars and Senior 
Ocfile Clearks ) 

Rs. 250 - 10 - 300 - 15 .. 420 - 20 ---500 - 25 - 600 . 
Grade II (Licence Sirkars, Godown keepers, Typists etc . 

Rs. 225 - 10 - 305 - 15 _ 425 _ 20 - 505 . 
Grade III ( Peons / Watermen/ Mazdoor etc. ) 

Rs. 165 - 4 - 189 - 5 - 214 – 6 -- 226 - 7 - 240 . 

For Drivers: Rs. 200 -- 10 - 250 _ 15 _ 340. 
2. " Whether the benefit of Gratuity should be available to the workmen ? It 
.so, to what extent and from what date ? " 

3 . " Whether the following benefits should be made available to the workmen ? 
If so to which categories, to what extent and from what date ? " 

(i) Uniforms— Summer and Winter . 
( ii ) Umbrellas. 


INo . 72 - 29 / 70 - P & D . ] 
AJIT CHANDRA , Under Secy . 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

आदेश 

नई दिल्ली , 28 जलाई 1971 
का ; ग्रा० 3086. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उगाबद्ध अनची में विनि 
दिष्ट विषयो के बारे में मैसर्स नीटन एण्ड स्मिथ ( दनिय ) प्राइवेट , लिरिएटेड, कलकत्ता के प्रबन्धक 
से सबन्ध नियोजको और उनके कमकारों के बीच एक पौधोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है : 

और, यतः प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 (1947 का 14 ) की धारय 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक 
अधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


4242 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART 


- 


अनसुची 
1. " क्या मैसर्स पीटर्स एण्ड स्मिथ ( इनिया ) प्राइवट लिमिटेड , कलकता द्वारा रखे गए 

कर्मकारो का , नीचे दिए गए रुप में काल वेतनमन और बंगाल चैम्बर्स आफ 
कामर्स एण्ड इन्डस्ट्रीज द्वारा विहित दर पर मंहगाई भत्ता का दावा करना न्यायोचित 


यदि हां, तो किस तारीख से ? यदि नहीं तो ये किस वेतन । म महगाई भत्ता के हकदार 
है । और किस तारीख से ? " 

श्रेणी । ( लेखा लिपिक, प्राशुलिपिक ज्येष्ठ अनुज्ञप्ति सरकार और ज्येष्ठ कार्यालय लिपिक ) 

__ 250 - 10 - 300 - 15 - 42020 - 500 - 25 - 600 रु० 
श्रेणी । । ( अनअप्ति सरकार, गोदाम रक्षक, टाइपिस्ट आदि ) 225 -- 10 - 305 - 15 - . 

425 - 20 - 505 रु० 
श्रेणी । । ( चपरासो/ चौकीदार /मजदूर आदि ) 165 - - 189 - 5 - 214 - 6 - 226 - 7 

240 रु० ड्राइवरो के लिए : 200 - 10 - 25 0 - 15 - 340रु० 

2. " क्या कर्मकारों को उपदान की प्रसुविधा उपलब्ध की जानी चाहिए ? यदि हां, तो किस 
विस्तार तक और किस तारीख से ? 

3. " क्या कर्मकारों को निम्नलिखित प्रसुविधाएं उपलब्ध की जानी चाहिए ? यदि हां , तो 
किन प्रवर्गों को , किस विस्तार तक और किस तारीख से ? " 

वर्दी - -ग्रीष्म और शरद 
छाते 

[ सं० 72 - 29/ 70 -पी . और डी० ] 


नई दिल्ली , 2 1 अप्रैल , 1971 


का० प्रा० 1811. -.-- डाक कर्मकार ( नियोजन का विनियमन ) अधिनियम , 1948 की धारा 4 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार कोचीन डॉक कर्मकार 
(नियोजन का विनियमन ) स्कम, 1959 में और संशोधन करने के लिए निम्नलिखित स्कीम , जिसे 
उक्त उप -धारा द्वारा यथा अपेक्षित पहले ही प्रकाशित किया जा चुका है, एतदद्वारा बनाती है , 
अर्थातः 


1 . इस स्कीन का नाम कोचीन डांक कर्मकार (नियोजन का विनियमन ) संशोधन स्कीम , 
1971 होगा । 

2 . कोचीन डाक कर्मकार (नियोजन का विनियमन ) स्कीम , 1959 (जिसे इसमें 

इसके पश्चात उक्त स्कीम कहा गया है ) के खण्ड 45 में , उपखंड ( 3 ) की मद ( ख ) 
के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित मद प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी, अर्थातः 
" ( ख ) जहांकिसी कर्मकार का मद ( क ) के अधीन आदेश द्वारा निलंबित किया गया 

हो , वहां उसे निलंबन की तारीख से प्रथम नब दिन के लिए उस प्राधारिक 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 20, 1893 4343 

- - - - - - - - - - 
मजदूरी , महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के प्राधे के समतुल्य निर्वाह भत्ता संवत्त किया 
जाएगा , जिसका वह मजदूरी सहित - छुट्टी पर होने की दशा में हकदार होता , 

और उसके पश्चात् अध्यक्ष , असाधारण दशाओं में , ऐसा उच्चतर निर्वाह- भत्ता 
मंजूर कर सकेगा जो ऐसी प्राधारिक मजदूरी, महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के 
तीन -चौथाई से अधिक न हो । 

परन्तु जहां ऐसी जांच ऐसे कारणों से जिनके लिए कर्मकार ही प्रत्यक्ष रूप 
से जिम्मेदार है, नब्बे दिन की अवधि के बाद भी चलती रहे तो वहां नब्बे दिन 
से अधिक अबधि पाले निर्वाह भत्ते को घटा कर, आधारिक मजदूरी, महंगाई 

और अन्य भत्तों के एक चौथाई के समतुल्य कर दिया जयेगा । " 
3. उक्त स्कीम के खण्ड 46 में , उपखंड ( 4 -क ) की मद ( क ) के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित 

__ मद प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी, अर्थात : - -- 
" ( क ) जहां किसी कर्मकार की जांच के लम्बित रहने तक निलम्बित किया गया हो , 

वहा उसे निलम्बन की तारीख से प्रथम नब्बे दिन के लिए उस प्राधारिक मजदूरी , 
महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के प्राधे के समतुल्य निर्वाह - भत्ता संदत्त किया जाएगा , 
जिसका वह मजदूरी सहित - - छटटी पर होने की दशा में हकदार होता और उस 
के पश्चात् अध्यक्ष असाधारण दशाओं में , ऐसा उच्चतर निर्वाह भत्ता मंजूर कर 
सकेगा जो ऐसी आधारित मजदूरी , महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के तीन - चौथाई 
से अधिक न हो । 
परन्तु जहां ऐसी जांच ऐसे कारणो से , जिनके लिए कर्मकार ही प्रत्यक्ष रूप से 
जिम्मेदार है, नब्बे दिन की अवधि के बाद भी चलती रहे तो वहां नब्बे दिन से 
अधिक की अवधि वालेनिर्वाह- भत्ते को घटा कर , आधारिक मजदूरी, महंगाई 

और अन्य भत्तों के एक - चौथाई के समतुल्य कर दिया जाएगा । " 
4 . उक्त स्कीम के खण्ड 51 में , उपखण्ड ( 3. क ) की ( क ) के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित 

मद प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : - - 
“ ( क ) जहां किसी कर्मकार की जांच के लम्बित रहने तक निलम्बित किया गया 

हो वहां उसे निलम्बित की तारीख से प्रथम नब्बे दिन के लिए उस 
आधारित मजदूरी , महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के प्राधे के समतुल्य निर्वाह 
भत्ता संदत्त किया जाएगा ,जिसका वह मजदूरी सहित - छुट्टी पर होने की दशा 
में हकदार होता, और उसके पश्चात अध्यक्ष , असाधारण दशाओं में , 
ऐसा उच्चतर निर्वाह- भत्ता मंजूर कर सकेगा जो ऐसी आधारिक मजदूरी , 
महंगाई और अन्य भत्तो के तीन - चौथाई से अधिक न हो । 
परन्तु जहां ऐसी जांच ऐसे कारणो से, जिनके लिए कर्मकार ही प्रत्यक्ष स्प से 
जिम्मेदार है , नन्मे दिन की अवधि के बाद भी चलती रहे तो वहां नब्बे दिन से 
अधिक की अवधि वाले निर्वाह - भत्ते को घटा कर आधारिक मजदूरी 
महंगाई और अन्य भत्तों के एक - चौथाई के समतुल्य कर 


[सं० 528/183/ 65- फैक्० 2/पी० एंड डी० ] 

अजित चन्द्रा , अवर सचिध । 


4344 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [Part II 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 26th March 1971 
S . O . 3087 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankola 
Colliery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Company Limited , Post Office Ukhra , District 
Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Bankola Colliery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Com 
pany Limited , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwan was justified in stopping from 
work Shri Umar Khan , Shale Picker from 30th June, 1970 ? If not, to what relief 
the workman concerned is entitled ? ” 

[ No. 6 / 82/ 70 - LR. II . 1 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy . 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


সাহা 


नई दिल्ली , 26 मार्च 1971 


का० प्रा० 3087 -~ -यत केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयो के बारे में मसर्स बुर्राकर कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड, डाकघर उखरा, जिला बर्दवान 
की बंकोला कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनी या 
समझती है ; 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
का मेसन बर्राफर को कर पनी लिमिटेड, डाकध , उखरा, जिना बर्दवान की बंकोला 
कोलियरी के प्रवन्ध मण्डल का श्री उमर खा , शाले पिक्कर को 30 जन , 1970 से काम करने से 
रोकना न्यायोचित था यदि नही , तो सम्बन्धित कमकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[सं० 6/ 82/ 70- एल० प्रार० - 2 ) 

करनैल सिह , अवर सचिव । 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4345 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 5th April 1971 


$ . 0 . 3088 .- - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Pure 
Searsole Colliery , Post Office Searsole Rajbari, District Burdwan and their work 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern - - 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Pure Searsole Colliery , Post Office 
Searsole Rajburi , Dietrict Burdwan , in stopping Sarvashri Mongru Bin , Moti Gope , 
Kesho Harijan , Dwarika Harijan and Asgar Mia , Trammers , from work with effect 
from 8rd September , 1970 , 8th September , 1970 , 1st September , 1970, 30th August, 
1976 and 3rd September , 1970 respectively was Justified ? If not, to what relief are 
the worrmen entitled ? " 

[ No. L-1912 /22 / 71- LR. II.I 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


प्रावेश 


नई दिल्ली , 5 अप्रैल 1971 


का० प्रा० 3088.-..--यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में प्योर सियरसोल कोलियरी , साफवर सियरसोल राजबाड़ी , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


प्रतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त विवाद 
को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गटित केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , फलकत्ता 
को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या प्योर सियरसोल कोलियरी , डाकघर सियरसोल राजबाड़ी , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध 

मण्डल की सर्वश्री मोगरू बिन , मोती गोप , केशो हरिजन , द्वारिका हरिजन और असगर 
मियां, ट्रेम्मरों को क्रमश: 3सितम्बर , 1970, 8 सितम्बर, 1970, 1 सितम्बर, 1970, 
3 0 अगस्त , 1970 और 3 मितम्बर , 197() से काम करने से रोकने की कार्यवाही 
न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अन्तोष के हकदार हैं ? " 

[ सं० एल० - 1912/ 22/ 71- एल पार - 2] 


4346 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II - . 


New Delhi, the 6th April 1971 


S . O . 3089. — Whereas, the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Şingareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Post Office Kothagudem Collieries (Andhra Pradesh ) and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 (14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T . Chandrasekhara Reddy, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Afzal 
Lodge, Tilak Roa ", Ramkote , Hyderabad - I, and refers the said dispute for adjudica 
tion to the said Industrial Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management 07 Ramagundam - I Division (Workshop ) of Singa 
reni Collieries Company Limited was justified in refusing to employ Shri D . 
Shanker , Electrician Category JV as fitter Category V in contract making job from 
May, 1969 ? If not, to what relief is he cntitled ?" 

[ No. 7 / 39 / 70 - LRII . ] 


नई दिल्ली , 6 अप्रैल , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3089 -- -- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में सिंगरेनो कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड , उ कघर कोथागुडेम कोलियरीज (प्रांध्र प्रदेश ) 
से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित कर | वाछनीय 
समझती है ; 

अतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धाग 7 - क और 
धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्वारा एक औद्योगिक अधिकरण गठित करती है , जिपके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री टी० 
चन्द्र गेखर रेड्डी होंगे , जिनका मुख्यालय अफजल लोड ,तिलक रोड, रामकोट , हैदराबाद - 1 होगा 
और उक्त विवाद को उन प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिएनिर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


" क्या सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेस की रामागुंडम - 1 रिवीजन ( वर्कशाप ) के प्रबन्ध 

मण्डल का श्री डी० शंकर , बिजली -मिस्त्री प्रवर्ग ... 4 को मई, 1969 से सम्पर्क स्थापन 
कार्य में फिटर प्रवर्ग - 5 के रूप में नियोजित करने से इन्कार करना न्यायोचित था ? 
यदि नही तो वह किस अनतोष का हकदार है ? " 


सं० 7/ 39/ 70 -एल मार - 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 7th April 1971 
S . O . 3090 . — Whereas the Central Governmer 

er 

is of ot 

is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to 

on to the management of Hindustan 
Lalpeth Colliery , Chandrapur (Maharashtrs ) and their workmen in respeot of the 
matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed : 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 4347 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Labour 
Court, Jabalpur , constituted under section 7 of the said Act , 


SCHEDULE 
“ Whether the strike resorted to by the Maharashtra Pradesh Rashtriya Koyala 
Khadan Kamgar Sangh , Chandrapur from the 13th April, 1970 to the 25th April, 
1970 in the Hindusthan Lalpeth Colliery , Post Office Chandrapur was legal ? " . 

[ No. 1 / 42 / 70- LR. II . ] 


नई दिल्ली , 7 अप्रैल , 1971 


का० प्रा०3090. - यतः, केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में हिन्दुस्तान लालपेथ कोलियरी , चन्द्रपुर ( महाराष्ट्र ) के प्रबन्ध मण्डल से सम्बद्ध 
नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करा वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


अत:, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ग ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 के अधीन गठिन केन्द्रीय श्रम न्यायालय , जबलपुर को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


" क्या हिन्दुस्तान लालपेथ कोलियरी, डाकघर चन्द्रपुर में 13 अप्रैल, 1970 से 25 अप्रैल , 

1970 तक महाराष्ट्र प्रदेश राष्ट्रीय कोयला खदान कामगार संघ , चन्द्रपुर द्वारा की 
गई हडताल वैध थी ? " 


[ सं० 1/ 42/ 70 - एल० पार ० - 2 ] 


SO 3091 . - Whereas the Central Government is or opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Singareni Collieries 
Company Limited, Post Office Kothagudem Collieries ( Andhra Pradesh ) and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause ( d ) 
of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , 
the Contral Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri T . 
Chandrasekhara Reddy, as Presiding Officer with headquarters at Afzal Lodge, Tilak 
Road , Ramkote , Hyderabad - 1, and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Industrial Tribunal, 

SCII DULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Morgans Pit, Belampalli Division 
of Messrs Singareni Collieries Company Limited is justified in laying off without 


4348 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II -- 


wages the workmen , whose names are given in the Annexure , on the 3rd Novem . 
ber , 1969 and the 11th November, 1969 respectively ? If not , to what relief are 
they entitled ? " . 


ANNEXURE 


Names of workers laid off on 3rd November, 1969. 
1. Shri Nakka Sailoo 
2 . Shri Soppari Bheemaiah 
3 . Shri Gurram Ankuloo 
4 . Shri Soppadandi Bala Posham 
5 . Shri Gosik Gattaiah 
6 . Shri B . Dasu 
7. Shri Manthcna Komaraih 
8 . Shri Ghoppadandi Rayabosu 
9 . Shri Senigarap Balaiah 
10 . Shri Lalammad 

Nanos of workers laid off on 11th November, 1969 
1. Shri Kudre Lingaiah 
2 . Shri Angadari Lasumaiah 

Shri G . Mallaiah 
4 . Shri Kathula Rayalingu 
5 . Shri Chippari Ankuloo 
6 . Shri Errala Rajam 

Shri Mekala Rajesham 

Shri Penchala Laxmaiah 
9 . Shri Mukkera Ramaiah 
10 . Shri Sangam Gattu 

Shri Konkula Gattaiah 
12. Shri Nagula Lingaiah 
13. Shri Elpula Lasumaiah 

Shri Ennaprcddi Narayana 
15 . Shri Kalvala Rajam 
16 . Shri Bingi Nambaiah 
17 . Shri Buddarth Kistaih 
18 . Shri Arimadla Dharmaiah 
19 . Shri Gadangi Narsaiah 
20 . Shri Bandi Rajam 
21. Shri Kapurap Mallaiah 

Shri Chilmula Ashaloo 
23. Shri Mudimadgula Raja 
24 . Shri Asala Şailoo 
25 . Shri Thelkuntla Muthaiah 
26 . Shri Juttu Banaiah 
27. Shri Dega Mallaiah 
28 . Shri Boddula Sailoo. 

[No. 7 / 16 / 70- LR . II.] 


11 . 


22 . 


का प्रा0 20 91. -- -यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
बिषयों के बारे में सिगरेनो कोलियरोज कम्पनी लि० , डाकघर कोठागुदेम कोलियरीज ( आन्ध्र -प्रदेश ) 
के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारा के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


SEC. 3 ( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4349 


और यतः न्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


प्रतः, अम , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 7 - क और 
धारा 10 को उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा एक प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण गठित करती है जिसके पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री टी० चन्द्र 
सेखर रेड्डो होंगे , जिनका मुख्यालय अफजल लोज, तिलक रोड़, रामकोट , हैदराबाद - 1 होगा और 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कं० लि . के मोर्गन्स पिट , बेलमपल्ली प्रभाग के प्रबन्ध 

मण्डल द्वारा उन श्रमिकों की जिनके नाम उपावत में दिये गये हैं , क्रमशः 3 नवम्बर , 
1969 और 11 नवम्बर, 1969 को बिना मजदूरी के कामबन्दी की कार्यवाही 
न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं तो वे किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं । " 


उपाबन्ध 


: श्रमिकों के नाम जिन्हें 3 नवम्बर, 1969 को जबरी छवटी परबिठा दिया गया । 


1 श्री नक्का सेलू 
2 श्री सोप्पारो मीमाइजाहू 
3 श्री बुर्रम प्रजुलू 
4 श्री सोप्पादंदी बाला पोशम 
5 श्री मोसिक गट्टाह, 
6 श्री बो० दसु 
7 श्री मथेना कोमारवाह 
8 श्री पापाहांलो रायाबासु 
9 श्री सेनोगारप बालाइलाह 
10 श्री लालाम्नद 


उन श्रमिकों के नाम जिन्हें 11 नवम्बर , 1969 को जबरी छुट्टी पर बिठा दिया गया । 

1 श्री कुडरेलिंगाइपाह 
2 श्री अंगादारी लासुमाइग्राह 
3 श्री जी० मालाइाह 
4 श्री काथुला रायालिंग 
5 श्री चिप्पारी अंकुज 
6 श्री इराला राजाम 
7 श्री मेकाला राजेशम 
8 श्री पेंचाला लक्ष्माइग्राह 
9 श्री मुक्केरा रामाइग्राह 
10 श्री संगम गटूट 
11 श्री कांकुला गटटाइमा 


4350 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PART II - 


12 श्री नगुला लिंगगाइपाह 
13 श्री एल्पुला लासुमाइग्राह 
14 श्री इन्नाप्रेड्डी नारायण 
15 श्री कलवाला राजम 
16 श्री बिगी नामबाड्याह 
17 श्री बुद्धार्थ किस्ठाइह 
18 श्री अरिमाउला धर्माइयाहू, 
19 श्री गडंगी नरसाइमाह 
20 श्री बंडी राजम 
21 श्री कपुराय मल्लाइग्राह 
22 श्री चिलमुला प्रशालु 
23 श्री मुदीमादगुला राजा 
24 श्री प्रसाला सेल्फ 
25 श्री थेलकुठला मुथाइअाह । 
26 श्री जुटु बनाइमाह, 
27 श्री उगा मल्लाप्राइयाह, 
28 श्री बुटुला सेलू । 


[ सं० 7/ 16/ 70-एल० आर०- 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 12th April. 1971 


S . O . 3092 . - Whereas , the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Şingareni Collieries Com 
pany Limited , Post Office Kothagudem Collieries ( Andhra Pradesh ) and their 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said . 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with 
Shri T . Chandrasekhara Reddy , as Presiding Officer, with headquarters at Afzal 
Lodge, Tilak Road, Ramkote , Hyderabad - 1, and refers the said dispute for adjudica . . 
tion to the said Industrial Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 


“ Whether the management of Singareni Collieries Company Limited, Ramagun - . 
dam Division No . II , No. 7 Incline was justified in not paying incentive bonus to . 
the workmen. in No. 7 Incline retrospectively with effect from May, 19697 If not ,. 
to what relief are the workmen entitled ? " . 


[ No . 7 / 40 / 70 - LR. III 


नई दिल्ली , 12 अप्रैल, 1971 


का प्रा03092.-- - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज़ कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर कोथागडेम कोलिपरीज ( आन्ध्र 
प्रदेश ) से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


Sec, 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4351 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 


अतः, अब, औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनिश्रम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 7 - क और 
धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
एतदद्वारा एक प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण गठिन करती है जिस के पीठासीन अधिकारी श्री टी० चन्द्रशेखर 
रेड्डी हांगे , जिनका मुख्यालय अफजल लौज ,तिलक रोड , रामकोटे , हैदराबाद - 1 होगा और उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


" क्या सिंगरेनी कोलियरीज कम्पनी लिमिटेड, रामागुंडम डिवीजन नं० 2, नं0 6 इन्क्लाइन 
के प्रबन्ध मण्डल का नं0 7 इन्कलाइन के कर्मकारो को , भूतलक्षी प्रभाव से मई , 1969 से प्रोत्साहन 
बोनस न देना न्यायोक्ति था ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 


[ सं० 7/ 40/ 70 - एल० आर० - 2] 


$ , 0 . 3033 : -- - W vereis the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Khas Joyramirtur Colliers of 
Messrs . Joyrampur Colliery Company Limited, Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad 
and their work nen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed : 

And whercas the CentralGovernment considers it desirable refer the said dispute for 
adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section Io of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal 
( N32), Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


“ Whether the action of the management of Khas Joyrampur Colliery of Messrs Khas Joy 
ram1r Cullicry Company Limited , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad , in stopping the 
following workmen , fra n work from the dates noted against each , 19 justified ? If not, to what 
relief the workmen are entitled ? 


s ) . 


Name of the workmen 


Designation 


No. 


Date of 
stoppage 


Pump Khalasi 


. 


Do . 


Do. 


I Ram Adhar Singh . 
2 Gouri Shankar Singh 
3 Nageshwar Singh , 
4 Sawalia Singh 
5 Ram Nath Singh 
6 Shyama Pada Chakraborty 
7 Balram Deo . . 
8 Amaldeo Roy . 
9 Kawal Dco Singh 
10 Prabhu Nath Singh 
II Dhanesh Prasad . . 


..... 


Do . 


13- 9 - 70 
27- 9 - 70 
20 - 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 
20 - 9 - 70 
13- 9 - 70 


. 


Do. 

Do. 
. 

Do. 
· Timber Prop Mazdoor 
. Pump Khalasi 


..... 


Do. 
Do. 


[ No. L/ 2012/ 31/71- LR - II] 


4352 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II -- - 


का० प्रा० 3093.-- -यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स जोयरामपुर कोलियरी कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर झरिया , जिला धनबाद 
की खास जोयरामपुर कोलियरी के प्रबन्ध से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


प्रतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
( संख्या 2 ) धनबाद, को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 


क्या मैसर्स खास जोयरामपुर कोलियरी कम्पनी लिमिटेड, डाकघर झरिया , जिला धनबाद 
की खास जोयरामपुर कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमंडल को निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों को उनके नामों के सामने 
दी गई तारीखों से काम करने से रोकने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस 
अनुतोष के हकदार हैं ? 


- 


क्रम संख्या 


कर्मकारों के नाम 


पदनाम 


काम करने से 
रोकने की तारीख 


- - 


- - - - - - - - - - -- - - 


-- - -- - ---- 


- - - 


13 - 9 - 70 
27 - 9 - 70 


1, राम अधर सिंह . 
2. गौरी शंकर सिंह 
3. नगेश्वर सिंह 
4. सवालिया सिंह . 
5 . राम नाथ सिंह . 
6 . श्यामा पादा चक्रवर्ती 
7 . बलराम देव . 
8. अमलदेव रॉय . 
9. कवल देव सिंह . 
10. प्रभु नाथ सिह . 
11. धनेश प्रसाद 


पम्प खलासी 

यथोपरि 
यथोपरि 
यथोपरि 
यथोपरि 
यथोपरि 

यथोपरि 
. टिम्बर / प्रोप मजदूर 
पम्प खलासी 

यथोपरि 
यथोपरि 


20 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
13 - 9 - 70 
20 - 9 - 70 


13 - 9 - 70 


[ सं० एल० / 2012/ 31/ 71- एल पार - 2 ] 


SEC. 3( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SR.AVANA 20 : 


4353 


New Delhi, the 15th April 1971 


S . O . 3094 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bank 
simulia 7 / 8 Plts Colliery of Messrs Bengal Coal Company Limited , Past Once 
Dishergarh , District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters speci 
filed in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - sec 
tion ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Govern 
ment Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Banksimulia 7 / 8 Pits of Messrs Bengal Coal 
Company Limited , Post Office Dishergarh , District Burdwan was justified in dis 
missing Shri Ramjan Mia , Underground Trammer 7 / 8 Pits of Banksimulia Colliery 
from the 28th July, 1970 ? If not , to what relief the workman is entitled ? ". 

[ No. 6 / 97/ 70-LR. II. ] 


नई दिल्ली , 15 अप्रैल , 1971 


का०मा० 3094. - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसुची में विनिदिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मेसर्स बंगाल कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड की बैकसिमलिया 7 / 8 पिट्स कोलियरी, डाकघर 
दीशेरगढ़ , जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्ध मण्डल से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारो के बीच एक 
औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद का न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


अतः , अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक अधिकरण , 
कलकत्ता का न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स बंगाल कोल कम्पनी लि० , डाकघर कोरोग , जिला दर्दमान की बैंकसिमलिया 
7/ 8 पिट्स के प्रबन्ध मण्डल द्वारा बैकसिमलिया कोलियरी के 7/ 8 पिट्स के श्री रमजान 
मिया , अन्डर ग्राउण्ड ट्रैमर को 28 जुलाई , 1970 से पदच्युत करना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं तो 
कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० 6/ 97/ 70- एल० आर० - 2 ] 


New Delhi, the 16th April 1971 
S . O . 3095 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bhowra 
Colliery of Messrs. Orjenta ! Coal Company Limited , Post Office Bhowra , District 
Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 


435A THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


. 


. .. . 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refer the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal ( No. 2 ) , Dhanbad, constituted under section 
7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
( i ) Whether the management of Bhowra Colliery of Messrs . Oriental Coal 

Company Limited , Post Office Bhowra, District Dhanbad , was 
justied in refusing to pay Shri Bhola Nath Singh , Bleeching Powder 
Mazdoor , the wages of Category - I as per recommendations of the 
Central Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry with effect from the 
15th August , 1970 ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


( ii) Whether the said management was justied in stopping the said work 

__ man from work with effect from the 11th September , 1970 ? If not , 

to what relief is he entitled ? " 


[ No. 2/ 170 / 70- LRII. ] 
U . MAHABALA RAO , Dy. Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 16 अप्रैल , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3095.-- - यनः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मत प्रारियंटल कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर भोरा, जिला धनबाद की भोरा 
कोलियरी के प्रबन्द्र से सम्बधं नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद 
विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णधन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 


अतः, अब , औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) हारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-क के अधोन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण 
( संख्या 2 ) , धनबाद को चायनियन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनसूची 
( 1 ) " क्या मैसर्स प्रारियंटल कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर भोरा, जिला धनबाद की 

भोरा कोलियरी के प्रबन्धमंडल का , श्री भोला नाथ सिंह , लीचि पाउडर मजदूर 
को 15 अगस्त , 1970 से कोयला खनन उद्योग सम्बन्धी केन्द्रीय मज़दूरी बोर्ड 
को सिफारिशों के अनुसार प्रवर्ग - 1 की मजदूरी देने से इनकार करना न्यायोचित 

था ? यदि नहीं, तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 
( II ) या उक्त प्रबन्धमण्डल का उक्त कर्मकार को 11 सितम्बर , 19 70 से काम 
करने से रोकना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं, तो वह किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[ संख्या 2 170/ 70 -एल पार० - 2 ] 

य० महाबल राव , उप सचिव । 


Sec. 3 (11) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4355 


(Department of Rehabllitation ) 
( Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 29th March 1971 
S . O . 3096 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( I ) of Şection 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B . $ . Kini as Asstt. Settleinent 
Offcer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers by 
ror under the sald Act with effect from the fore- noon of the 9th March, 1971. 

[ NO. 8 / 1 / AGZ / 67. ] 
( पुनर्वास विभाग ) 
( मुख्य बन्दोबस्त मायुक्त कार्यालय ) 

ई दिल्ली 29 मार्च, 1971 
एस . मो . 3096.- - विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( मुत्राविजा तथा पुनवास ) अधिनियम 1954 
11954 का 44 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
श्री बी० एस० फिन्नी को 9 - 3 - 1971 पूर्वाह से सहायक बन्दोबस्त अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है, ताकि 
वे उन कार्यों को कर सके जो सहायक बन्दोबस्त अधिकारी के पद के लिए निरधारित किये गये हैं । 

[ सं० 8/ 1/एजीजैड०/ 67 ] 
80. 3097. - -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub- Section ( I ) of Section 6 
of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 , the Central Government 
hereby appoints for the States of Maharastra , Gujarat , Andhra Pradesh , Mysore , 
Kerala and Tamil Nadu , Shri B . S . Kini, Assistant Settlement Officer, in the office 
of the Regional Settlement Commissioner , Bombay , as Assistant Custodian of 
Evacuee Property for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to such 
Assistant Custodians by or under the said Act with immediate effect, 

[ No . 8/ 1/ AGZ / 87. ] 
एस ० ओ० 3097- - निष्क्रांत सम्पत्ति अधिनियम 1950 के भाग 6 के उपभाग ( 1 ) 
की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने प्रादेशिक बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त कार्यालय 
बम्बई के श्री बी एस ० किन्ती सहायक बन्दोबस्त अधिकारी को तत्काल ही महाराष्ट्र , गुजरात, 
प्रान्ध्र प्रदेश , मैसूर , केरला , तथा तामिल नाडू राज्यों के लिए निष्क त सहायक अभिरक्षक नियुक्त 
किया है ताकि वे उन कार्य को कर सकें जो उपरोक्त अधिनियम के अन्त त सहायकः अभिरक्षक के 
पद के लिए निर्धारित हैं । 

[ संख्या 8/1/ ए ० जी ० जैड / 67] 
New Delhi, the 6th April 1971 
S .O . 3098. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950, the Central Governinent 
hereby appoints for the State of Uttar Pradesh , Shri B . P . Maithani, Managing 
Officer at Patna under the Regional Settlement Commissioner ( Central ) , New 
Delhi, as Assistant Custodian for the purpose of discharging the duties assigned to 
such Asstt. Custodian by or under the said Act, with immediate effect. 

| No. 7/ 85 / ARG / 84 .] 


ई दिल्ली , 6 अप्रैल, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3098. ---निष्क्रान्त सम्पत्ति प्रशासन अधिनियम , 1950 की धारा 6 की 
उपIT ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये केन्द्रीय सरका . इसके द्वार क्षेत्रीय बन्दो 


4356 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 3G, 1893 [ PART II 


बन्दोबस्त पापकर ( केन्द्रं . य , नई दिल्ली के अधीन पटना में प्रबन्ध अधिकारी श्री बी० पी० 
मथानी को उत्तर प्रदेश राज्य म सहायक अभिरक्षक के काय को पूरा करने के लिये 
उपर्युक्त अधिनियम वारा या उसके अन्तर्गत तत्काल प्रभाव से सहायक भिरक्षक नियुक्त 
करती है । 

[ सं० 7( 5 ) ए० प्रार० जी० / 64] 


$ . 0 3099 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of Sub -section 
( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act , 
1954 (No. 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints with immediate 
effect Shri G . S . Masand, Asstt. Settlement Officer in the office of the Regional 
Settlement Commissioner (Central) , New Delhi, as Managing Officer for the cus 
tody, management and disposal of Compensation Pool properties, in the States of 
U . P ., Bihar , Orissa , Rajasthan, Punjab , Himachal Pradesh and Haryana . 


[ No . 8 / 85 / 56 -Comp.I. ] 


एस० प्रो० 3099. - - विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर एवं पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम 1954 
( 1954 का 44 ) की धारा 16 की उपधारा 2 के खंड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का 
प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार इसके द्वारा क्षेत्रीय बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) , नई 
दिल्ली के कार्यालय में सहायक बन्दोबस्त अधिकारी श्री जी० एस० मसंद को उत्तर प्रदेश , 
बिहार , उडीसा , राजस्थान , पंजाब , हिमाचल प्रदेश तथा हरियाणा राज्यों में मुआवजा पूल 
की सम्पत्तियों की अभिरक्षा , प्रबन्ध तथा उनके निपटारे के लिए सत्काल प्रभाव से प्रबन्ध 
अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० 8/ 85 / 56 कम्प I ] 


S . O 3100 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( I ) of Sectior 
6 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , the Centraf 
Government hereby appoints Shri U . N . Sharma , Secretary, Relief & Rehabilitation, 
Government of Himachal Pradesh as Custodian of Evacuee Property for the State 
of Himachal Pradesh for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed on Custo 
dian by or under the said Act, with immediate effect. 


[ No. 10 / 10 / Admn. II / 71. 1 


का० प्रा० 3100. ---निष्क्रांत सम्पत्ति प्रशासन अधिनियम, 1950 ( 1950 का 31 ) के भाग 
6 के अनु भाग ( 1 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार हिमाचल प्रदेश राज्य के 
सहायता तथा पुनर्वास सरिद श्री यू० एन० शर्मा को तत्काल ही निष्क्रांत सम्पत्ति अभिरक्षक हिमाचल 
प्रदेश नियक्त करती है ताकि वे उन कार्यों को कर सके जो अभिरक्षक के पद के प्रति उपरोक्त 
अधिनियम के अन्तर्गत लगाए गए हैं । 


[ संख्या 10/ 10 एडमन II/ 71 ) 


New Delhi, the 27th April 1971 


s . o . 3101 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) , Sub- Section ( 2 ) 
of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 . 
the Central Government hereby appoints for the Union Territory of Delhi, Shri 
Şardari Lal , Assistant Custodian in the office of the Regional Settlement Commis 
sio ner , New Delhi, as Managing Officer for the custody, management and disposal 
of compensation pcol with immediate effect. 


INo. 7 / 1 / ARG / 62. T: 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZE : TE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 18937 


नई दिल्ली 27 अप्रैल , 1971 


एस मो०3101. - विस्थापित व्यक्ति (मुआविजा तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 1954 के भाग 16 . 
अनुभाग ( 2 ) खंड ( 9 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रादेशिक बन्दोबस्त 
आयुक्त कार्यालय नई दिल्ली के सहायक निष्क्रांत सम्पत्ति अभिरक्षक श्री सरदारी लाल को संघीय 
क्षेत्र दिल्ली के लिए तत्काल ही प्रबन्ध अधिकारी नियुक्त करती है ताकि वे मुनाविजा भंडार की 
अभिरक्षा , प्रबन्ध तथा निपटारा कर सकें । 

[ संख्या 7/ 1/ ए ० पार ०जी/ 62] 
New Delhi, the 29th July 1971 
S . O . 3102. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 . 
(44 of 1954 ), the Central Government hereby appoints for the State of Mysore 
Shri N . D . Koparde, Tahsildar of the Mysore Government as Managing Ofcer 
for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers by or under 
the said Act , with immediate effect . 


[ No. 2 ( 9 ) / Spl. Cell / CSC / 69. 1 . 


नई दिल्ली , 29 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3102 ----विस्थापित ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 1954 ( 1954 
का 44 ) की धारा 3, उपधारा ( 1 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार 
मैसूर राज्य के लिये , मैसूर राज्य के तहसीलदार श्री एन० डी० कोपारडे को तत्काल ही प्रबन्ध 
अधिकारी के पद पर नियुक्त करती है , ताकि वे उन कार्यों को कर सकें जो कि इस अधिनियम 
के द्वारा या अन्तति ऐसे अधिकारियों के लिये निरधारित किये गये हैं । 


[ पं० 2 ( 9 ) स्पेशल सेल्सी० एस० 06s] 


S . O . 3103. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri V . H . Islur , M . A . S . 
Class I ( Junior Scale ) Officer of the Mysore Government as Asstt . Settlement 
Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such . 
officers by or under the said Act with immediate effect. 


[ No . 2 ( 9 ) / Spl.Cell / CSC / 69. ] 

____ JANKI NATH, 
Settlement Commissioner & Ex -officio Under Secy . 
एस० ओ० 3103 --- विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 1954 
( 1954 का 44 ) की धारा 3, उपधारा ( 1 ) की प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार 
तत्काल ही मैसूर राज्य के श्री वी० एच० सबलर , एम० ए० एस० प्रथम श्रेणी ( कनिष्ठ श्रेणी ) अधि 
कारी के सहायक बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त नियुक्त करती है ताकि ये उन कार्यों को कर सकें जो कि 
इस अधिनियम के द्वारा या उस के अन्तर्गत ऐसे अधिकारियों के पद के लिये निर्धारित किये गये 


[ संख्या 2 ( 9 )/स्पैशल सेल /सी०एस० सी / 69 ] 

जानकी नाथ , 
बन्दोबस्त प्रायक्त तथा पदेन अवर सचिव । 


4358 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30. 1893 [ PART II -- 


(Department of Rehablitation ) 
[Office of the Regional Settlement Commissioner ( Central) | 

New Delhi, the 24th April 1971 


S. 0 . 3104 .-...In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Section 34 ( 3 ) of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 1954 ) , I, 
Gulab L Ajwani, Regional Settlement Commissioner ( C ) hereby delegate to Shri 

A. L . Bahl, Settlement Officer the powers to decide cases falling under Sub - Sec 
tion ( b ) of Section 9 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation & Rehabilitation ) 
Act , 1954. 

[ No . 17( 1 ) / RSC ( C ) / Admn./ 71.] 

GULAB L . AJWANI , 
Regional Settlement Commissioner (C ) . 


( पुनर्वास विभाग ) 
[ क्षेत्रीय बन्दोबस्त प्रायत्त ( मध्य०) का कार्यालय ] 

नई दिल्ली, 24 अप्रैल , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3104 -- विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिफर तया पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम , 195 4 ( 1954 
का 44 ) की धारा 3 1 ( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए मैं , गुलाम एल ० अजपानी , 
क्षेत्रीय बन्दोबस्त आयुक्त ( सी ) , इसके द्वारा विस्थापित व्यक्ति ( प्रतिकर तथा पुनर्वास ) अधिनियम 
1954 की धारा 9 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अनर्ग। पाने वाले मामलों का निर्णय करने के लिए अपनी 
शक्तिया श्री ए०एन० बहल , बन्दोबस्त अधिकारी को सौपता है । 


[ संख्य 17 ( 1 ) पार ० एस ० मी ० (सी० )/ एडमन/ 71 ] 


गुलाब एल ० अजवानी , 
क्षेत्रीय बन्दोबस् । प्रायुक्त ( सी ) । 


DEPARTMENT OF COMPANY AFFAIRS 


COST AND WORKS ACCOUNTANTS 


New Delhi , the 24th June 1971 
S . O . 3105 . In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 9 of the 
Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (23 of 1959 ) , the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce and Industry (Department of 
Company Law Administration ) , G . S . R . No . 612 , dated the 25th May , 1959, 
namely : 

In the said notification for item 4 and the entry relating thereof, the following 
item and entry shall be substituted , namely : .. 

"4. Northern India Regional Constituency : 
Comprising the States of Haryana Himachal Pradesh , Jammu and Kash 

mir , Punjab , Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh and the Union territories 
of Chandigarh and Delhi. " 

[ No . 9 / 2 / 71 -IGC. ] 
M . C , VARMA, Under Secy . 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4359 


कमानी कार्य विभाग 
( लागत और संकर्म लेखापाल ) 


नई दिल्ली , 24 जून , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3105 - लागत और संकर्म लेखापाल अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 का 23 ) की 
धारा 9 की उपधारा (2 ) के खण्ड (क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार भारत सरकार के भतपूर्व 
वाणिज्य और उद्योग मंत्रालय (कम्पनी विधि प्रशासन विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं०सा०का०नि० 6 1 2 
तारीख 25 मई , 1959 में एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन और करती है, अर्थात : --- 

उक्त अधिसूचना में पद 4 और उससे संबंधित प्रविष्टि के लिए निम्नलिखित मद और प्रविष्टि 
प्रतिस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात् : - - 

" 4 उत्तरी भारत प्रादेशिक निर्वाचन क्षेत्र जिसमें हरियाणा , हिमाचल प्रदेश, जम्मू और 

कश्मीर, पंजाब , राजस्थान और उत्तर प्रदेश के राज्य तथा चंडीगढ़ और दिल्ली के 
संघ राज्यक्षेत्र समाविष्ट है । " 

[ सं० 9/ 2/ 71- प्राई०जी०सी० ] 
एम० सी० वर्मा, अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND SOCIAL WELFARE 

___ ( Department of Culture) 

New Delhi, the 25th June 1971 
S . O . 3106 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( I ) of article 299 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following instruments 
shall be exccuted on his behalf by the Joint Director General Archaeological 
Survey in the ubsence of the Director General from the headquarters, namely : 

" All contracts & other instruments relating to the execution of works and 
repairs to protected monuments and other unmoveable property ." 

[ No . 5 / 71 / 71- CAI (I ). ] 

SARAN SINGH , Under Secy. 
शिना तथा समाज कल्याण मन्त्रालय 

( संस्कृति विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 25 जन , 1971 


एस० प्रो० 3106 - - संविधान के परिछेद 299 की धारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए राष्ट्रपति यह निदेश करते हैं कि उनकी अोर से मुख्यालय से महानिदेशक की 
अनुपस्थिति में निम्नलिखित दस्तावजों का निष्पादन संयुक्त महानिदेशक पुरात्तव सर्वेक्षण द्वारा 
किया जाएगा , अर्थात् । 

" संरक्षित स्मारकों और अन्य अचल सम्पत्ति की मरम्मत और कार्य के निष्पादन से 
सम्बन्धित सभी करार और अन्य दस्तावेज़ । " 

[ संख्या 5 / 71/ 71 - सी०ए० 1 (1 )] 

सरन सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


4360 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II.--- 

- - - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
S . O . 3107, — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (8 ) of section 63 of 
the Motor Vehicles Act , 1939 ( 4 of 1939) , and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Shipping and Transport ( Transport Wing ) 
No. 39 - TAG ( 8 ) / 70 dated the 29th December, 1970, the Central Government hereby 
specifies the amount mentioned in column ( 2 ) of the Table below as the amount to 
be deposited by way of security by every applicant for a permit in respect of the 
class of vehicles specified in the corresponding entry in column ( 1 ) of the said 
Table and further specifies that the amount of security shall be paid in cash : 

TAPI. E 

- ~~- ... - . 
Class of vehicles 

Amount of security 


( r ) 


( 2 ) 


. 


. 


. 


I , TouristMotor Cab . . 

. 
2 . Tourist omnibus with passenger capacity not exceeding 29 . 
3 . Tourist omnibus with passenger capacity exceeding 29 . . 


Rs. 
500 . 00 
1000 .00 
1500 . 00 


. 


2 . This notification shall come into force on the date of its publication in the 
Official Gazette. 

[ File No. 39 - TAG (8 ) / 70.] 

B. S. SINGH, Deputy Secy . 
नोवहन तथा परिवहन मंत्रालय 

(परिवहन पक्ष ) 

नई दिल्ली, 9 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3107 - - मोटरगाड़ी अधिनियम , 1939 ( 1939 का 4 ) की धारा 63 की 
उपधारा ( 8 ) का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के नौवहन तथा परिवहन मंत्रालय ( परिवहन 
पक्ष ) की अधिसूचना सं० टी ए जी ( 8 )/ 70 दिनांक 29 दिसम्बर 1970 के अधिक्रमण में केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एसद्वारा निम्नलिखित सारणी के कालम 2 में दी गयी राशि को उस राशि के रूप में 
उल्लिखित करती है जो उपरोक्त सारणी के कालम ( 1 ) की संगत प्रविष्टि में उल्लिखित वर्ग की 
मोटर गायों के लिए परमिट के प्रत्येक आवेदक द्वारा जमानत के रूप में जमा की जानी है और यह 
श्री उल्लिखित करती है कि जमानत की यह राशी रोकड़ में अक्षा की जाएगी: --- 

सारणी 


मोटर गाड़ी का वर्ग 


जमानत की राशि 


1. पर्यटक मोटर केब 
- पर्यटक प्रोम्निबस जिसकी यात्री - क्षमता 29 से अधिक न हो 
3. पर्यटक मोम्निबस जिसकी यानी - क्षमता 29 से अधिक हो 


500 . 00रु . 
1000 . 00 रु० 
1500 . 00 रु० 


. 


. 


यह अधिसूचना इसके सरकारी गजट में प्रकाशित होने की तारीख से लागू होगी । 

[ सं० 39 - टी ए जी ( 8 )/ 70 ] 
बी० एस० सिंह , उप सचिव । 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4361 


CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , COCHIN 

( PRODUCE CESS ) 

Cochin , 11th March , 1971 
S . O . 3108. - - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Section 2 ( a ) 
- of the Produce Cess Act , 1966 ( 15 of 1966 ) , read with Government of India Noti 
fication GSR 884 dated 26 - 3 -69 and in supersession of this Collectorate s Notifica 
tion Nos, 1 / 70 - Central Excises dated 2 - 2 - 70 and 5 / 70 (Produce Cess) dated 25 - 4 - 70, 
I, L . S . Marthandam , Collector of Customs & Central Excisc . Cochin , hereby autho 
rise the Central Excise Officers spccified in column ( 3 ) of the Table hercto annexed 
to exercise within their jurisdiction , the powers of the " Collector" under the Pro 
duce Cess Act cnumerated in column ( 1 ) thereof, subject to the limitations speci 
fied in column 4 of the said Table in regard to matters indicated under column ( 2 ) . 


TABLE 


In regard to 


Rank of Officer 


Limitation , if any 


Section of the 
Produce Ceys 

Act 


Full powers 


Do. 


9 ( 1 ) & ( 2 ) 
12 ( a)( b) & ( c ) 
13 ( I ) and ( 2 ) 


Furnishing particulars Superintendent of Central 
about the Mill. 

Ixcise. 
Submission of monthly re 

Do. 
turns . 
Collection of Cess 

Do. 
Recovery ofsums duo, 

Do. 
Power to inspect Mills etc , Officer not below the rank of 

Inspector of Central LX 

cise. 
Adjudication of offences Assistant Collector of Cen 

tral Excise . 
Composition of offences 

Do. 


Do. 
Do . 
Do. 


16 


Do. 


etc. 


Do. 


[ No. 1 / 71 ( Produce Cess. ] 


L . S . MARTHANDAM , 

Collector . 


सीमाशुल्क और केन्द्रीय उत्पादन कर कलक्टरी, कोचिन 


( उत्पत्ति उपकर ) 


कोचिन , 11 मार्च, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3108 .-- - उत्पत्ति उपकर अधिनियम , 1966 ( 1966 के 15वां ) के 
अनुभाग 2 ( अ ), भारत सरकार की अधिसूचना जी०एस० बार० 88 4 ता० 26 - 3 - 69 और इस 

लक्टरो की अधिसूचना सं० 1 / 70 - केन्द्रीय उत्पादन कर ता० 2 - 2 - 70 और 5/ 70 
( उत्पत्ति उपकर) ता० 25 - 4 - 70 का अभिलंधन करते हए, मैं कोचिन पाशुल्क और केन्द्रीय 
उत्पादन कर का कलक्टर ( समाहर्ता ) एल०एस० मातन्छिम , मझ पर प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए, केन्द्रीय उत्पादन कर के अफसरों को प्रमाणित करता हैं कि वे अपने क्षेत्रीयाधिकार पर नीचे 
दी गयी सारणी के अनुसार अधिकारों का प्रयोग करें । 


4362 THE GAZETTE OFINDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II -- 


सारणी 


के संबंध में 


अफसर की श्रेणी 


सीमायें हैं तो 


उत्पत्ति उपकर अधि 
नियम का भाग 


. 


. 


. 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


त्रिकल के बारे में विवरण के० उ०कर का 

पूरा अधिकार 
प्रस्तुत करना 

अधीक्षक 
मासिक विवरणियां प्रस्तुत 
9 ( 1 ) और ( 2 ) उपकर जमाना 
12(ए) ( बी ) और ( सी ) बचेरकम की पुन : प्राप्ति 
13 ( 1 ) और ( 2 ) व्यय के निरीक्षण का अधिकार केन्द्रीय उत्पादन कर के 

निरीक्षक 
16 

अपराध आदि का निर्णय केन्द्रीय उत्पादन कर के 
करना 

सहायक समाहर्ता 
अपराधी का जुटाव 


18 


[सं० / 71 ( उत्पत्ति उपकर ) ] 
एल० एस० मातन्डिन , समाहर्ता । 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , M . P . & VIDARBHA 

CENTRAL EXCISE 
Nagpur, the 20th May 1971 


S . O . 3109. - In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under rule 5 of the 
C . Ex. Rules, 1944 , I hereby empower the C . Ex., Officers specified in column 2 of 
the sub - joined table to exercise within their jurisdiction and in relation to the 
assessees governed by the provisions of chapter VII - A of the said rules the powers 
of the " Collector " under the C . Ex .. Rules enumerated in column 1 thereof sub 
ject to the limitations set out in column 3 of the said table . 


Central Excise Rules 


Assistant Collector 


Limitations , if any 


( I ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


ule 173G ( I )(iii ), 


. 


. 


Assistant Collector of To allow clearances of any excisable goods. 
of Central Excise . as samples in such small quantities as A . C . 

may approve in respect of any commodity . 


[ No. 3/1971. ] 


VIPIN MANEKLAL , Collector .. 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4363 


केन्द्रीय उत्पाव शुरुक समाहर्ता क्षेत्र , मध्यप्रदेश एवं विवर्भ 

(केनीय उत्पाद शुरक ) 

नागपुर, 20 मई 1971 
फा० प्रा० 3109 - केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क नियमावली, 1944 के नियम 5 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हए , मैं एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित सारणी के स्तंभ 2 में दर्शाए गए केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क 
अधिकारियों को अपने अधिकार क्षेत्र में , उक्त नियमावली के अध्याय VII - क के उपबंधों द्वारा 
शासित कर निर्धारितियों से संबंधित “ समाहर्तों " के अधिकारों को , उक्त सारणी के स्तंभ 3 में 
उल्लिखित परिसीमाओं को ध्यान में रखते हुए , स्तंभ 1 में दर्शाये गये नियमों के अंतर्गत प्रयोग में लाने 
का अधिकार देता हूं : - - 


केन्द्रीय उत्पाद शुल्क नियम 


अधिकारी की श्रेणी 


परिसीमाये, यदि कोई हों 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


- 


- 


। 


नियम 1720 ( 1 ) ( ii ) सहायक समाहर्ता केन्द्रीय 

उत्पाद शरफ 


( 3 ) 

-- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
उत्पादन शुल्क योग्य किसी ऐसी छोटी 

मात्रा में नमूने के रूप में , जिसका 
अनुमोदन सहायक समाहर्ता, करे 
निर्मोचन प्रदान करना । 


[ सं० 3/ 1971 ]] 
विपीन मानेकलाल, समाहर्ता । 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

( Dopartment of Potroleum ) 

New Delhi, the 27th July 1971 
8 . 0 , 8110 . - -Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the Mini 
try of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines & Metals (Department of Petroleum ) 
S . O . No, 4022 dated 4 - 12 - 70 under sub -section ( 1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum 
Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ), the Central 
Government had declared its intention to acquire the Right of User in the land . 
specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of laying 
pipelines ; 

And whereas the Competent Authority , has under gub - section ( 1 ) of section 8 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, further , whereas the Central Government has , after considering the said 
roport, decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specifled in the scheduto 
appended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 8 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declare , that the right 
of uger in the said land : gpecified in the schedule appended to this notification to 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 

And, further , in exercise of the power conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) ot that 
section , the Central Government directs that the right of uger in tho said ha 


436A THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II 


shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the publt 
cation of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas Comm / asion free from all 
encumbrances . 

SCHEDULE 
FOR LAYING PIPELINE FROM WELL NO . DBO TO BBA GGS, I LINE 
STATE : GUJARAT 

DIST . KAIRA 

TALUKA :MATAR 


Villege 


S. No . 


Hectare 


Area 


P . Arc . 


NAWAGAM . 


. 


. 


636 /1 
635 


. 


629 
630 / 4 


. 
. 


. 


Homtook 


०००००००० 


620 
631 / 2 
621 / 2 
621 / 4 


. 
, 
. 


[ No. 11 ( 4 ) / 71 -Lab . & Lects. ] 
पेट्रोलियम और रसायन मंत्रालय 

( पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 7 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3110. - - यतः पैट्रोलियम , पाइप लाइन ( भूमि के उपयोग के अधिकार का 
अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार 
के पेट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा धातु मंत्रालय ( पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना का०मा० 
सं . 4022 तारीख 4-12- 70 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप लाइनो को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अजित करने का अपना 
श्राशय घोषित कर दिया था । 

और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 


पौर मागे , यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना 
संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का निश्चय किया है । 

प्रब , अत : उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का प्रयोग करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा प्रणित 
"किया जाता है । 

और, मागे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेस और प्रातिकगैस पायोग में , सभी बंधको से मक्त रूप में , इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को 
निहित होगा । 


Sec . 3 ( 11 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4365 
- - - - - - - - -- 

- - - - = = = - 
अनुसची 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


मुना सव्या बो डो पो स बी बी ए जो जाम लाइन तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
T154 - - TTTT 

ET- - 

तालूका - - मातार 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
TET मर्वेक्षण सच्या 

एआईई पी ए आर ई 


- 


- 


- 


हैवटर 


नवागाव 


636 / 1 
635 
629 
630 / 4 


cucoulco 


620 


63 1 / 2 
621/ 2 
621/ 4 


[po 11 ( 4 )/ 71 WAT TE AFTA ] 
New Delhi, the 22nd July 1971 
S . O . 3111, — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
In the public interest for the transport of Petroleum from Sanand - 28 to Sananad 
16 in Kalol oil field Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the oil & Natural 
Gas Commission ; 

And whereas It appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipeunes , it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedulo 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of tho 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares Ito intention to 
acquire the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 dayı 
from the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the 
land to the Competent Authority , Oil & Natural Gas Commission , Construction 
& Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifcally 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 


For line from well No, sinzil-28 ( SII) to well head installation at sanand 15 
STATE : GJUARAT 

DIST : MEHSANA 

TALUKA : KALOL 


Village 


S . 


No, Hectare 


Are 


P . Are 


JETHALAJ 


M 


504 
466 
467 


O 


461 


000000 


SY 


459 
458 
457 / 2 


21 


[No. 11 ( 4 ) / 71- Lab. & Legta. ] 


1 [ PART LI -- 


4366 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 3 ), 

- - - - - - - . - . 
नई दिल्ली , 22 जुलाई , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3111 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित 
में यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल लेल क्षेत्र सानद- 28 मे सानन्द - 15 तक 
पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी 
चाहिए । 


और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनो को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्. 
पाबद्ध अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग को अधिकार अर्जित करना आवश्यक है । 


अत :, अब , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अजन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतद 
द्वारा घोषित किया है । 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने 
के लिए प्राक्षप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , 

तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग , 
निर्माण और देख- भाल प्रभाग , मकरपुरा रोग, बड़ौदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना तारीख से 21 
दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 


और ऐसा प्राक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिदिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह 
मह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मात । 

अनसूची 
कुप्रा संख्या 28 ( एस II ) से सानंद- 15 पर फूप मुख संस्थान तक पाइपलाइन के लिए 
राज्य - - गुजरात 

जिला -- महसाना 

तालुका - कालोल 


गांव 


सर्वेक्ष ग संख्रा 


हैक्टर 


ए आर ई 


पी० ए० प्रार 

ई० 


जेठालाज 


504 
486 
467 
461 
459 

458 
45712 


20 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ संख्या 11 ( 4 )/ 71 लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


S . 0 . 3112. -- Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Old - Town . 
GG: S . III to New - Permanent . G . G . S . III in Kalol oil held Gujrat State, 
Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission ; 


SEC (11) ] DHE GAZFITE OF INDIA : AUGUSI 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4367 


- 


- 


- 


And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, 16 18 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the Land described in the schedule 
anexed hereto ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1982 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days 
i on the date of this notification , object to the laying to the pipelines under the 
land to the Component Authority , Oil & Natural Gas Commission , Construction 
& Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road , Boroda - 9%3; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


For live from teni, od GGS III to purmanent 1109 GGS III 


STATL : GUJARAT 


DIST : MESHANA 


TALUKA:KADI 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- - 


-- 


Village 


Sl. No. 


Hectare 


Are 


P . Aro 


- - - - -- -- - - 


-- -- - - - - -- -- - - - -- -- - 


- - - -- -- - - - - -- --- - - - 


Ambavpura . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


127 


12 


8 


0 


- 


- 


[ No. 11 (4)/ 71 -Lab. & Legis .] 


का० ० 3112--- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित 
में यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य मे कलोल तेल क्षेत्र मे पुराने -स्थाई जी जी एस से नये 
स्थाई जी जी एस - III तक पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेन तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए । 


और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद 
पाबद्ध अनुसूची में वणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है . 


प्रत ., अब, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 को उपधारा (1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमे उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना आशय एतदद्वारा 
घोषित किया है । 

बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के नीचे पाइप लाइन बिछाने के 
लिए आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस यायोग, निर्माण और देख - भाल प्रभाग, 
मकरपुरा रोड, बडोदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 


और ऐसा प्राक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट , यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह 
माहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


4368 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUSI 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1843 [ Part 01 - 
A S S = = = 

= = = = = 

= = = 
अनुसूची 


पुराने अस्थाई जी जी एस III से नय स्थाई जी जी एस III तक पाइपलाइन के लिए 


राज्य - - गुजरात 


जिला -~- महमाना 


तालुका --- काही 


- 


-- - - 


- 


- - 

गांव 


- - - - -- - - - - - - 
सर्वेक्षण सख्या हैक्टर ए आर ई 


- - - - 

पी० ए० प्रार 


अम्बबपुरा 


1270 


1280 


12 


80 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


[ EUT 11( 4 )/ 71- 797 que afsta ) ] 


S . O . 3113 , - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Sanand - 32 to 
Sanand - 15 in Kalol oil field Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
and Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines , it 18 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the Land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 daya 
from the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the 
land to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction 
and Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state epoctically 
whether he wivher to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
Por line front well No sanand 32 ( SIG ) to well head installation sanard 15 
STATE : GUJARAT Dist : MEHSANA 

TALUKA :KALOL 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Hectare 


S . No. 


Are 


P . Are 


Village 


AL 


JETHALAJ 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


346 


0 


3 


96 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

[No. 11 (4 ) / 71 - Lab . & Legis. ! 
M . V. S. PRASADA RAU , Under Secy. 


SEC. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4369 


का० मा . 3113. - प्रतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित 
में यह प्रापश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल तेल क्षेत्र में सनंद 32 से सनंद 15 तक पेट्रोलियम 
के परिवहन के लिए पाइलाइन तेल तथा प्रातिक स प्रामोग द्वारा निछाई जानी चाहिए । 


और यत : मह प्रतीत होती है कि पेसी लाइनो की बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतपावन 
अनुसूची में पणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करना प्रामश्यक है । 


अतः, अन, पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 को उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशाय एतद् 
द्वारा घोषित किया है । 


बश कि उक्त भूमि में हितबछ कोई व्यक्ति उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के 
लिए प्राक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग , निर्माण और देख -भाल 
प्रभाग मकरपुरा रोड , बड़ौदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीब से 21 दिनों के भीतर 
कर सकेगा । 


और एमा माक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह 
चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिश: हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायों की मार्फत । 


अनुसूची 


कुमां संस्था सानन्द 32 एम पाई जी ) से सातवा- 15 पर कूप मच संस्थान तक 
पोप लाइन के लिए । 
राज्य - - गजरात 

जिला - - महसाना तामुका - - कलोन 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या हक्टर 


एमार ई पी ए मार 


जेठलाग 


96 


___ 346 
3488 


06 


__ _ " 


[ संख्या 11 ( 4 )/71- लेबर एन्ए लेजिस ] 


म . वे• शिव प्रसाद राम , अमर समिव । 


4370 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 


New Delhi, the 20th July 1971 


S . O . 3114 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Electricity 
( Supply ) Act , 1948 (54 of 1948 ) and in supersession of the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Irrigation and Power No. EL .II . 28 ( 15 ) 
67, dated the 28th November , 1969 , as amended from time to time, the Central 
Government hereby constitutes , until further orders , the Central Electricity 
Authority consisting of the following members , namely : 
1 . Shri A . K . Ghose , Vice - Chairman , Central Water and Power Commis 

sion (Power Wing ) , New Delhi. 
2 . Shri _ P. N. Jain, Joint Secretary , Ministry of Finance ( Department of 

Expenditure) , New Delhi. 
3. Shri L . J. Manjrekar , Joint Secretary , and Legal Adviser , Ministry of 

Law , New Delhi . 
4. Shri B. R . R. Iyengar , Mermber ( HE ) , Central Water and Power 

Commission (Power Wing ) , New Delhi 
5 . Shri B . N . Ojha , Member ( Thermal ) , Central Water and Power 

Commission ( Power Wing ) , New Delhi. 
8. Shri A. F . Couto , Director (FE& P) , Ministry of Irrigation and Power , 

New Delhi. 

and 
appoints Shri A , K . Ghose as Chairman of the said Authority , 

[ No . EL.II.28 ( 9 ) / 71. ] 
सिंबाई और विद्युत मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 20 जलाई, 1971 


एस०प्रो० 3114.-~-विद्यत प्रदाय अधिनियम , 1958 ( 1958 का 54 ) की धारा 3 के द्वारा 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए और सिवाई और विद्युत मंत्रालय भारत सरकार की लमय- समय 
पर संशोधित अधिसूचना संख्या ई०एल० दो -- 28 ( 15 ) 6 7, दिनाकित 28 - 11- 1969 का अधि 
क्रमा करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा अग्रेतर आदेश होते तक , केन्द्रीय विद्युत प्राधिकरण की 
स्थापना करती है । जिसमें निम्नलिखित सदस्य होगे :- - - 

1 . श्री ए०के० घोष , उपाध्यक्ष , केन्द्रीय जल और विद्युत प्रायोग, (विद्युत स्कंध ) , नई 

दिल्ली । 
2 . श्री पी०एन० जैन, संयुक्त सचिव , वित्त मंत्रालय , व्यय विभाग, नई दिल्ली । 
3. श्री एल०जे० मंजरेकर , संयुक्त सचिव और विधि सलाहकार, विधि मंत्रालय , नई 


4 . पी बी सार सार प्रापंगर सदस्य जाधु केन्द्रीय जल और विद्युत 
प्रायोग , विद्यु:। स्कंध ) , नई दिल्ली । 

5 . श्री बी०एन० प्रोझा, सदस्य ( ताप विद्यु : ) केन्द्रीय जल और विद्युत प्रायोग (विद्युत 

कंध ) नई दिल्ली । 
6. श्री ए०एफ० कुटो , निदेशक (विदेशी मुद्रा और विद्युन ) सिंबाई और विद्युत 

मंत्रालय , नई दिल्ली । और 
श्री ए०के० घोष को उक्त प्राधिकरण का अध्यक्ष नियुक्त करती है । 

[सं० ई० एल० 2-28 ( 9)/ 71] 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 


New Delhi , the 31st July 1971 
S. 0 . 3115 . - In cxercise of the powers comierred by sub - section ( i ) of scction 
36 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 , the Central Government, in supersession 
of this Ministry s Notification No. EL . II. 34 ( 20 ) /67 , dated the 21st December , 
1967 , hereby appoint the Director ( Commercial ) , Central Water and Power 
Commission ( Power Wing ) to be the Central Electrical Inspector in respect of 
the following: - 
1. Union Territories of 
Manipur , Tripura, Andaman. and Nicobar Islands, and within the territory 

of Pondicherry and Dadra and Nagar Have) . 
2 . Ministry of Information and. Broadcasting 

All India Radio . 
3. Ministry of Works, and Housing 

Central Public Works Department . 
4 . Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation 

( a ) Indian Meteorological Department . 

( b ) Civil Aviation. 
5 . Ministry of Communications 

Overseas Communication Service, 
6 . Ministry of Labour and. Rehabilitation. ( Department of Rehabilitation ) , 

Dandakaranya Project. 
7 . Ministry of Irrigation and Power 
Electrical Installations belonging to or under the control of the Ministry 

of Irrigation and Power , 
8 . Ministry of Industrial Development 

Small Scale Service Institute, Madras. 
9 . Department of Atomic Energy 
Projects, other than the Mines, belonging to or under the control of the 
Department of Atomic Energy . 

[ No . EL. II . 6 ( 11 ) / 65. ] 
M . RAMANATHAN , Dy. Director (Power) . 

नई दिल्ली, 31 जुलाई 1971 
का० प्रा० 3115. ...-भारतीय विद्युत् अधिनियम , 1910, की धारा 36 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , , इस मंत्रालय की अधि 
सूचना संख्या ई० एल० 11 - -- 34 ( 20 ) / 67 दिनांक 21 दिसम्बर , 1971 के अधिक्रमण 
में एतद् द्वारा केन्द्रीय जल तथा विद्युत् प्रायोग ( विद्युत् स्कंध ) के निर्देशक ( वाणिज्यिक ) को , 
निम्नलिखित के सम्बन्ध में केन्द्रीय विद्युत् निरीक्षक के रूप में नियुक्त करती है । . 
1. संघीय प्रवेश 

मणिपुर , त्रिपुरा , अण्डमान और निकोबार द्वीपसमूह और पांडिचेरी और दादरा 

और नागर हवेली के क्षेत्र के भीतर । 
2. सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

अखिल भारतीय आकाशवाशी । 
3. निर्माण प्रौर प्रावास मंत्रालय 

केन्द्रीय सार्वजनिक निर्माण कार्य -विभाग । 


4372 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II -- 


. 


. . 


. . 


4. पर्यटन और सिविल विमानन मंत्रालय 

( क ) भारतीय मौसम विभाग । 

( य ) सिविल विमानन । 
5 . संचार मंत्रालय 

समुद्र पार संभार सेवा । 
6. श्रम और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( पुनर्वास विभाग ) 

दहाकारण्य परियोजना 
7. सिंचाई और विद्वत मंत्रालय 

सिंचाई और विद्युत् मंत्रालय के अथवा उनके नियन्त्रणाधीन विद्युत् प्रतिष्ठान । 
8. प्रौद्योगिक विकास मंत्रालय 

लघु, सेवा संस्थान , मद्रास । 
9 . परमाण कर्माविभाग 
परमाणु ऊर्मा विभाग को अथवा उनके नियन्त्रणाधीन , खानों के अतिरिक्त , परि 
मोजनाए । 

[स० ई० एल०-ii 6( ii )/ 85 ] 


एम० रामनाथन् , उप निदेशक (विद्युत ) । 


- - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

(Grih Mantralaya ) 

New Delhi, the oth July 1971 
S . O . 8119. - In exercise of the powers conterred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule , 
clause ( b ) of sub - rulo ( 2 ) of rule 12 and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24, read with rule 
34, of the Central Civil Services ( Classification, Control and Appeal ) Rules , 150, 
the President hereby makes the following further amendment in the Schedule 
to potifcation of the Government of India in the Ministry of External Aitaire , 
No. S . R . O . 21 , dated the 23rd December, 1987, namely : 


( 1 ) In Part II ot the said Schedule, atter the existing entries, the following 
entry shall be inserted , namely : 


- 


- 


AL 


" All Clasa III crtices and Head of Once of such Head of 
posts in NRPA Secre - authority as may be Office or 
Arlato and other Departo specified by the Gov such authority 
mnts in NEFA. 

Yernor of AmAm 28 may be 

specified by 
the Governor 
of Aotea . 


Governor of Asia or 
such other authority as 
may be specified by 
the Governor of 
A88 & m ; where the 
order le that of the 
Governor of Azm , 
the President " ; 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4373 


(2 ) in Part III of the said Schedule , after the existing entries, the following 
entry shall be inserted , namely : 


( 1) 


__ ( 5) 


All 


" Al Class IV services 
and posts in NEFA SC- 
cretariat and other De 
partments in NEFA. 


Head of Office of Head of 
such authority es muy Office or 
be specified by the such autho 
Governor of Assam . rity to may 

be specified 
by the Go 
yernor of 
Assam. 


Governor of Assam or 
such other Authority 
Asmay be specified by 
the Governor of 
Austm ; where the 
order is that of the 
Governor of Arbome 
the President " . 


[ No. 14 ( 6 ) / 89 - NEFA. ] 
H . S , DUBEY, Dy. Secy . 


गृह मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 9 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3118--- केन्द्रीय सिविल सेवा (वर्गीकरण नियंत्रण व अपील ), 1965 के 
नियम 34 के साथ गठित, नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2) , नियम 12 के उप-नियम ( 2 ) के 

ण्ड ( ख ) तथा नियम 24 के उप- नियम ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
राष्ट्रपति , भारत सरकार , विदेश मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या एस० प्रार० ग्रो० 21, 
दिनांक 23 दिसम्बर, 1957 के साथ संलग्न अनुसूची में एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित और संशोधन 
करते हैं , अर्थात् : - - 


( 1 ) उक्त अनुसूची के भाग ---2 में , विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों के बाद , निम्नलिखित 
प्रविष्टि जोड़ दी जायेगी , अर्थात् : -- 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


" नेफा सचिवालय व कार्यालय का कार्यालय का सभी 
नेफा के अन्य विभागों अध्यक्ष या असम मध्यक्ष या असम 
में तृतीय श्रेणो की समो के राज्यपाल द्वारा के राज्यपाल द्वारा 
सवार और पद । निविष्ट प्राधिकारी निर्दिष्ट प्राधिकारी 


असम के राज्यपाल या 
असम के राज्यपाल 
द्वारा निर्दिष्ट अन्य 
प्राधिकारी ; जहां 
असम के राज्यपाल 
का आदेश हुमा ही , 
बहा राष्ट्रपति । 


4374 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 9, 1893 [ PART II 
- -- - - - - 

( 2 ) उक्त अनुसूची के भाग- - 3 में , विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों के बाद , निम्नलिखित 
प्रविष्टि जोड़ दी जायेगी , अर्थात् :-- - 


- 


-- - - - 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


- - - - 


- - 


"नेफा सचिवालय व कार्यालय का प्रया कार्यालयका अध्यक्ष सभी प्रसभ के राज्यपाल 
नेफा के अन्य विभागों या असम के या आसाम के 

या असम के राज्य 
में चतुर्थ श्रेणी को राज्यपाल द्वारा राज्यपाल द्वारा 

पाल द्वारा निर्दिष्ट 
सभी पेत्राएं पोरगद निविष्ट प्राधिकारी निविष्ट प्राधिकारी 

अन्य प्राधिकारी ; 
जहां असम के 
राज्यपाल का प्रादेश 
हुका हो , वहां 
राष्ट्रपति । 


[ सं० 14 ( 5)/69-नेफा ] 
एच० एस० दुबे, उप सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 15th July 1971 
$ . 0 , 3117 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Central 
Reserve Police Force Act , 1949 ( 66 of 1949 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following rulcs further to amend the Central Reserve Police Force 
Rules, 1955, namely : - - 

1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Central Reserve Police Force ( Amend 
ment) Rules, 1971. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Orcial 
Gazette. 
2 . In the Central Reserve Police Force Rules, 1955, 
( a ) in rule 2, - - 
(i ) after clause ( d ) , the following clause shall be inserted, namely : - - 
" ( dd ) Director General means the Director General of the Force 

appointed by the Central · Government through whom the 
superintendence of, and control over , the Force of the Central 
Government shall be exercised and who shall, subject to any 
instructions that the Central Government may give, administer 
the Force in accordance with the provisions of the Act and of 

these or other rules;" ; 
( ii ) in clause ( f ) , after the words “ who will ", the following words shall 

be inserted , namely: --- 
" subject to the supervision , control and direction of the Director 

General," ; 


( b ) in rule 27, after sub - clause ( 7) of clause (c ) the following clauses 

____ shall be inserted , namely : --- 
" ( cc ) Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, 
( i) where any penalty is imposed on a member of the Force on the 

ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal 
charge , or 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 50 , 893 4375 


- 


- - 


- - - - - - - 


- 


( 1l ) where the authority competent to impose the penalty is satisfied 

for reasons to be recorded by it is writing that it is not 
reasonably practicable to hold an inquiry in the manner provided 

in these rules , or 
( lli ) where the Director General is satisfied that in the interest of 

security of the State , it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in 
the manner provided in these rules , the authority competent to 
impose the penalty may consider the circumstances of the case 

and make such orders thereon as it deems flt. 
(ccc ) When a member of the Force has been tried and acquitted by a 

criminal court , he shall not be punished departmentally under this 
rule on the same charge or on a similar charge upon the evidence 
cited in the criminal case , whether actually led or not, except 
with the prior sanction of the Inspector - General. ". 

[ No. 18 / 42/ 70 - GPA - I.] 
P. P. KHANNA, Dy . Secy . 


the the crimina ce or on punished departmnd a 


नई दिल्ली, 15 जुलाई, 1971 


काठमा० 3117 - केन्द्रीय रिजर्व पुलिस फोर्स अधिनियम , 1949 “ ( 1949 का 66 ) 
की धारा 18 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , केन्द्रीय रिजर्व पुलिस फोर्स नियम , 
1955 में और प्रागे संशोधन करने के लिए, निम्नलिखित नियम एतद्वारा बनाती है, अर्थात् : - - 

1. ( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम केन्द्रीय रिजर्व पुलिस फोर्स ( संशोधन ) नियम , 1971 होगा : 

( 2 ) ये शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवृत्त होंगे 
2. केन्द्रीय रिजर्व पुलिस फोर्स मियम, 1955 में ,- - 
( क ) नियम 2 में,---- 
(i) खंड ( प ) के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित खण्ड अन्तः स्थापित किया जाएगा , 

अर्थात् : --- 
“( घघ ) महा निदेशक से, केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा नियुक्त फोर्स का महा निवेशक 

अभिप्रेत है जिसके माध्यम से केन्द्रीय सरकार के बल का अधीक्षण और उस पर 
नियंत्रण किया जाएगा और जो , उन अनुदेशों के अधीन रहते हए जो उसे केन्द्रीय 
सरकार द्वारा दिए जाएं , अधिनियम के और इन या अन्य नियमों के उपबन्धों 

के अनुसार सेना का प्रशासन करेगा "; 
( ii ) खण्ड ( च ) में , " और जो " शब्दों के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित शब्द अन्त : स्थापित 

किए जाएंगे , अर्थात् :---- 
"महा निदेशक के अधीक्षण , नियंत्रण और निवेश के अधीन रहते हुए ; " 
( ख ) नियम 27 में, खण्ड (ग ) के उप - खण्ड ( 7) के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित खण्ड अन्त : 

स्थापित किया जाएगा , अर्थात् : --- 
" ( गग ) इन नियमों के अन्तर्विष्ट किसी बात के होते हुए भी :- - 
( i ) जहां सेना के सदस्य पर कोई शास्ति ऐसे आचरण के आधार पर अधिरोपित 

की जाती है जिसके कारण उसे किसी आपराधिक आरोप पर सिद्ध दोषी 
पहराया गया है, या 


4376 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II - 


T 


( ii ) जहां शास्ति अधिरोपित करने के लिए सक्षम प्राधिकारी का , ऐसे कारणों 

से जिन्हें वह लिपिबद्ध करे, समाधान हो जाता है कि इन नियमों में उपबंधित 

रीति से जांच करना युतिपयुक्त रूप से साध्य नहीं है, या 
( iii ) जहां महानिदेशन या समाधान हो जाता है कि राज्य की सुरक्षा हित में , इन 

नियमों में उपबंधित रीति से कोई जांच करना समीचीन नहीं है, वहां शास्ति 
अधिरोपित करने के लिए सक्षम प्राधिकारी मामले की परिस्थितियों पर विचार 

कर सकेगा और उस पर ऐसे आदेश दे सकेगा जैसे वह उचित समझे : 
( गगग ) जब सेना के किमी सदस्य पर दाजिक न्यायालय द्वारा विचार किया जाए 

और उसे दोष मुक्त करदिया जाए तो वह, महा निरीक्षक की पूर्विक मंजूरी के 
सिवाय , आपराधिक मामले में प्रोद्धत साक्ष्य पर, चाहे वह वस्तुत : दिया गया 
हो या न दिया गया हो , उसी आरोप या किसी तत्सम आरोप पर इस नियम 
के अधीन विभागत : दण्डित नहीं किया जाएगा । " 

[सं० 18/ 42/ 70-जी० पी० ए० I] 

पी० पी० खन्ना , उप सचिव । 


New Delhi , the 21st July 1971 
S . 0 . 3118. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 
of the Constitution , the President, with the congent of the Government of 
Meghalaya, hereby entrusts to that Government, the function of the Central 
Government under the Explanation to section 26 of the Negotiable Instruments 
Act, 1881 ( 28 of 1881 ) , subject to the following conditions, namely :- - 
(1) that the powers to be exercised for declaring Public holiday in the 

autonomous State of Meghalaya shall be exercised only in respect of 

such area which does not form part of the Shillong Municipality ; and 
( 11 ) that notwithstanding this entrustment, the Central Government may 
itself exercise the said function should it deem it to do so in any case . 

[ No. F . 21 / 1 / 71 -Judi.] 

B. SHUKLA, Dy. Secy . 
नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई , 1971 
एस० ओ० 3118 . - - राष्ट्रपति , संविधान के अनुच्छेद 258 के खण्ड ( 1 ) द्वारा 
प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , परक्राम्य लिखत अधिनियम , 1881 ( 1881 का 26 ) 
की धारा 25 के स्पष्टीकरण के अधीन केन्द्रीय सरकार के कृत्य , मेवालय सरकार की 
सहमति से , उस सरकार को निम्नलिखित शर्तों के अधीन रहते हुए, एतदद्वारा सौंपते 
है , अर्थात : --- 

( i ) मेघालय स्वायत्त . राज्य में , " सार्वजनकि अवकाश दिन " घोषित करने के 

लिए प्रयुक्त की जाने वाली शक्तियों का प्रयोग केवल ऐसे क्षेत्र के बारे 

में होगा जो शिलांग नगरपालिका का भाग नहीं है ; और 
(ii ) कृत्यों को इस प्रकार सौंपने के बावजूद, केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त कृत्य को 

स्वयं कर सकती है, यदि वह किमी मामले में ऐसा करना ठीक समझती 


[ सं० फ० 21/ 1/ 71- न्यायिक 

ब्रह्मानन्द शक्ल , उप सचिव । 


Sec. 3 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4377 

L E - . - - . - - - - _ = _ = 

New Delhi, the 23rd July 1971 
S . O . 3119 , In pursuance of sub -section ( 2 ) of Section 2 of the Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli (Civil Courts and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulation 1963 ( 8 
of 1963 ) the Central Government after consultation with the High Court at 
Bombay , appoints Shri K . M , Desai, Civil Judge , Junior Division and Judicial 
Magistrate , First Class , Dahanu , As Civil Judge for the purposes of the said 
Regulation . 

[No. 3 / 20 / 71 -GP. ] 
R . C . JAIN , Dy . Secy. 


2723 art , 1971 
TO ST0 - 3119.-27TTS ( feast FrTTTTTL alaa 3980 )ff74A 
1963 ( 1963 # 1 8 ) Ter<r 2 # 39- 4147 ( 2) # A LATIT À , FEST # {# re , af 
उच्च -न्यायालय से परामर्ण करने के पश्चात , श्री के० एम० देसाई सिविन जज , जूनियर डिविजन , 
एवं जुडीश्यिल मजिस्ट्रेट, प्रथम श्रेणी, दहानू , को उक्त विनियम के प्रयोजन हेतु सिविल जज 
रूप में नियुक्त करती है । 

[ 3/20 71-37o ato 
HITO PO GA , 39 piani 


New Delhi, the 26th July 1971 
8 . 0 , 3120 . - In pursuance of paragraph 3 of the Foreigners ( Restricted Areas ) 
Order , 1963 , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amend 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 
Affairs, No. S . O . 1337, dated the 10th May, 1963, namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification , for the entry " State of Assam " in 
column ( 1 ) , and the corresponding entries in column ( 2 ) , the following shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" State of Assam including Meghalaya 

( 1) Secretary to the Government of Assam , Passport Department. 
( 2) Deputy Secretary to the Government of Assam , Passport Department. 
( 3 ) Under Secretary to the Government of Assam , Passport Department. 
( 4) Deputy Commissioner , Gauhati. 
(5 ) Assam Government Trade Adviser, Calcutta . 
( 0 ) Superintendent of Police ( To Pakistani nationals only ) . 
( 7 ) All District Magistrates . 
( 8 ) Chief Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya , Home ( Passport ) 

Department, 
( 9 ) Secretary (Special ) to the Government of Meghalaya, Home ( Pags 

port) Department . 
( 10 ) Joint Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home ( Passport ) 

Department. 
( 11 ) Deputy Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya , Home ( Passport ) 

Department. 
( 12 ) Under Secretary to the Government of Meghalaya, Home (Pagsport ) 

Department. 
( 18 ) Deputy Commissioner, United K - J Hills , Shillong . 
( 14 ) Deputy Commissioner , Garo Hills , Tura . 
( 15 ) Superintendent of Police, United K - J Hills , Shillong . 
( 16 ) . Superintendent of Police , Garo Hius, Tura (to Pakistani nationals 
only ) ." 

(No. 11013 / 7/ 71 - F . L. ) 
R . A . S . MANI, Under Secy . 


4378 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART 


-- 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
( Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
S . O . 3121 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act , 1946 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Governmeat 
hi reby specifies the following offences as the offences which are to be investigat 
el by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely : – 
( a ) offences punishable under sections 323 , 324, 354, 379 and 399 of the 

Indian Penal Code, 1880 (46 of 1860) ; 
( b ) offences punishable under section 25 and 28 of the Arms Act, 1960 

( 54 of 1959) ; 
( c ) offences punishable under sections A and 8 of the Explosive Sub 

stances Act , 1908 ( 8 of 1908) : 
( d ) attempts , abetments and conspiracles in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clauses ( a ) , (b ) and 
( c ) and any other offence committed in the courgo of the data . 
transaction arising out of the same facts . 

[ No . 228 / 10 / 71 - AVD.II . ] 


मंत्रिमंडल सचिवालय 

( कार्मिक विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 9 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 312 1, - - दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन अधिनियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 25 ) 
की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, एतदद्वारा , निम्नलिखित अपराधों 
को उन अपराधों के रूप में विनिर्दिष्ट करती है जिनका अन्वेषण दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन द्वारा 
किया जाना है , अर्थात् : - - 

( क ) भारतीय दंड संहिता , 1860 ( 1860 का 45 ) की धारा 323, 324, 354, 

379 और 399 के अधीन दंडनीय अपराध ; 
( ख ) शस्त्र अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 का 54 ) की धारा 25 और 26 के अमीन 

दंडनीय अपराध ; 
( ग ) विस्फोटक पदार्थ अधिनियम , 1908 ( 1908 का 6 ) की धारा 4 और 5 के 

अधीन दंडनीय अपराध ; 
( घ ) खण्ड ( क ) से (ग )में वर्णित एक या अधिक अपराधों तथा एक ही तथ्यों से उद्भूत 

एक ही संव्यवहार के अनुक्रम में किए गए किसी अन्य अपराध के बारे में या के संबंध 
में प्रयत्न , पूष्प्रेरण और षडयंत्र । 


[सं० 228/10/ 71-ए० बी . डी - II ] 
New Delhi, the 17th July 1971 
S . O . 3122 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section ( 1 ) of section 
402 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 ( 5 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
h :reby appointe Shri P . R . Namjoshi, Advocate of Bombay, as Public Prosecutor 
to conduct the prosecution case ( R. C . 54 / 87 - Bombay ) relating to State versue it. 
Col. Ottar Singh , at every stage , including appeal and revision . 


[ No. 225 / 9 / 71 - A . V . D . II. ] 


SEC. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 18934379 
- - - 

- - -- - - - - 

नई दिल्ली, 17 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3122. --- दण्ड प्रक्रिया संहिता , 1898 ( 1898 का 5 ) की धारा 492 को 
उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा श्री पी०पार० 
नामजोशी, अधिवक्ता, बम्बई को मूल अपीलों और पुनरीक्षण न्यायालयों में , बाद प्रार०सी० 
54/ 67- बम्बई, राज्य बनाम लेफ्टीनेन्ट कर्नल औतार सिंह के मामले में , अभियुक्त पर अभियोज 
चलाने के लिए लोक अभियोजक के रूप में नियुक्त करना है । 

[ सं०2 25/9 / 71-ए० बी० डी०-( II ) ] 


New Delhi , the 26th July 1971 
S . 0 . 3123. --In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( 5 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
hreby appoints Shri N . N . Saikia , Advocate of Gauhati, as Public Prosecutor in 
the cases against M . A . Salam relating to RC Nos. 10 /67 to 18 / 87, 20 /67 to 24 / 67, 
21 / 67, 28 / 87 and 2 / 88 of SPE Shillong tor all purposes, including appeal and 
revision. 

[ No. F . 225 / 19 / 71 - AVD.II.J 


नई दिल्ली , 26 जलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3 123 -- दण्ड प्रक्रिया संहिता, 1898 ( 1808 का 5 वां ) की धारा 492 की 
उपधारा ( 1 )द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार, गोहाटी के अधिवक्ता श्री 
एन०एन० साकिया को , एनारा, एम०ए० सलाम के विरुद्ध विशेष पुलिस स्थापना शिलाग के , 
मुकदमा संख्या 10/ 4/ 67 से 18/ 67, 20 / 67 से 11/67, 27/ 6 7,28 / 67 तथा 2/ 68 के 
सम्बन्ध में अपील तया पुनरीक्षण सहित सभी प्रयोजनों हेतु लोक अभियोजक के रूप में नियुक्त 
करती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 225 19/ 71-ए०वी०डी 0- II ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
0 , 3124 , — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 

ad with section 6 , of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 ( 25 
of 1946 ) and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Govern 
ment with the consent of the Government of the State of Bihar, hereby extends 
the powers and jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police Establish 
ment to the State of Bihar for the investigation of offences specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed . 

THE SCHEDULE 
( a ) offences punishable under sections 147, 148, 307, 323, 324, 354, 379 and 

1399 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 ( 45 of 18601) ; 
(b ) offences punishable under section 25 and 26 of the Arms Act, 1959 

( 64 of 1959) ; 
( c ) offences punishable under sections 4 and 5 of the Explosive Sub 

stances Act, 1908 ( 6 of 1908 ) ; 
( d ) attempts , abetments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clauses ( a ), ( b ) and 
( c ) and any other offence committed in the course of the same 
transaction arising out of the same facts . 

[ No . 228 / 10 / 71 - AVD.II. ] 
B . C. VANJANI, Under Secy. 


4380 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II... 

- - - - - - -- - - - 


- 


- - 


प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली , 9 जुलाई, 1971 
का० प्रा० 3124.- - दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन अधिनियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 
25) की धारा 6 के साथ पठित धारा 5 की उपधारा ( I ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों , और इस निमित 
से उसे समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य सभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , एतदवारा , 
बिहार राज्य की सरकार की सहमति से , दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन के सदस्यों की शक्तियों और 
अधिकारिता का , इसके साथ संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट अपराधों का अन्वेषण करने के लिए , 
बिहार राज्य में विस्तार करती है । 


अनुसूची 
( क ) भारतीय दंड संहिता , 1860 ( 1860 का 45 ) की धारा 147, 148, 307, 

323, 324, 354, 379 और 399 के अधीन दंडनीय अपराध ; 
( ख ) शस्त्र अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 का 54 ) की धारा 25 और 26 के अधीन 

दंडनीय अपराध; 
( ग ) विस्फोटक पदार्थ अधिनियम , 1908 ( 1908 का 6 ) की धारा 4 और 5 के 

अधीन दंडनीय अपराध ; 
( घ ) खण्ड ( क ) से ( ग ) में वर्णित एक या अधिक अपराधों तथा एक ही तथ्यों से उद्भूत 

एक ही संव्यवहार के अनुक्रम में किए गए किसी अन्य अपराध के बारे में या के 
सम्बन्ध में प्रयत्न , दुष्प्रेरण और पयत्र । 

[ सं० 228/ 10/ 71 -ए०बी०डी०-II ] 
बी०पी० वनजनी , अवर सचिव । 


( Department of Personnel ) 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
S . O . 3126 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Bection 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri aВnsilal Parikh , Advocate of Bombay, as Public Prosecutor 
to conduct before the Court of the 16th Presidency Magistrate , Ballard Estates, 
Bombay , Karwar Conspiracy Case No, CW 2 / 71 and hereby makes the following 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India , Cabinet Secretarlat, 
Department of Personnel No. 421 / 9 / 71 -AVD - IV dated the 17th May , 1971 , 
namely : 

In the said notification for the words and letters " Sarvashri K , J . Khandalwala 
and B . A . Pandya, Advocates of Bombay " , the words and letters " Sarvashri K . J . 
Khandalwala and Bansilal Parikh, Advocates of Bombay " shall be substituted. 

[ No. 421 / 9 /71- AVD -IV. ] 
K . L. RAMACHANDRAN, Under Secy . 
( कार्मिक विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 9 जुलाई, 1971 
का०प्रा०31 25. -- दण्ड प्रक्रिया संहिता 1898 ( 18 98 का 5 ) की धारा 492 की उप-धारा 
( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार , बम्बई के एडवोकेट श्री बंशीलाल 


. 


SEC. 3 ( i) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893. 4381 
- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
पारिख , को प्रेसीडेन्सो मजिस्ट्रेट 16-बैलर्ड एस्टेट , बम्बई के न्यायालय में करवाल कन्सपिरेसी केस 
संख्या सो० डब्ल्यू ० 2/ 8 / 7 1, को परब करने के लिए एतदद्वारा लोक - अभियोजक नियुक्त करती 
है और एतद्वारा भारत सरकार , मंत्रिमंडल सचिवाय, काम: विभाग की अधिसूचना संख्या 
-421 / 9/ 71 -ए०वी०डी०- 1वी , दिनांक 17 मई , 1971 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है : --- 


उक्त अधिसू ना में “ बम्बई के एडवोकेट , सवश्री के०जे . खंडेलवाल और बी०ए० पोणच्या 

शब्दों और अक्षरों के स्थान पर " बम्बई के एडवोकेट , सर्वश्री के०जे० खंडेलवाल और, 
वंशीलाल पारिख शब्द तथा अक्षर रख दिए जायेंगे । 

[ सं० 421/ 9/ 71-ए ०वी० डी०IV ] 
के० एल० रामाचन्द्रन् , अवर सचिव । 


CIVIL AVIATION DEPARTMENT 
(Office of the Director General of Oivil Aviation ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 25th June 1971 
S . O . 3126. -- In pursuance of sub-rule ( 3 ) of rule 78- A of the Aircraft Rules , 
1937 and in supersession of S . O . No. 1302, dated the 3rd April, 1968 published in 
the Gazette of India Extraordinary , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - Section ( ii ) , dated the 
4th April , 1968, the Director General of Civil Aviation is pleased to authorise the 
following officers to demand for examination Admission Tickets for entry into In 
ternational and Domestic Passengers Booking Halls and Lounges and the 
enclosures appertaining thereto in the Government Aerodromes at Santa Cruz 
( Bombay) , Dum Dum ( Calcutta ) and Meenabakkam ( Madras ) : 

1 . Controller of Aerodromes, Bombay ]Calcutta | Madras . 
2. Senior Aerodrome Officers, Aerodrome Officers, Assistant Aerodrome 

Officers posted at the airports mentioned above. 
3 . Administrative Officers and Accounts Ofcers of the Civil Aviation De 

partment posted at the Airports mentioned above . 
4. Aerodrome Operators, Airport Ticket Clerks, Caretakers and Chowkidars 

posted at above -mentioned airports . 
3 . Any Police Officer . 

[ No. 15 - 13 / 67 - Revenue.] 

G . C . ARYA , 
Director General of Civil Aviation . 
सिविल विमानन विभाग 
( सिविल विमानन महानिदेशक का कार्यालय ) 

आदेश 


नई दिल्ली , 25 जून , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3126. - --वायुयान नियम , 1937 के नियम 78 -क के उपनियम ( 3 ) के 
अनुसरण में और भारत के राजपत्र , असाधारण भाग 2, खंड 3, उपखंड (11 ) तारीख 4 अप्रैल , 
1968 में प्रकाशित अधिसूचना सं० का०मा० सं० 1302 तारीख 2 अप्रेल 1968 
को अधिक्रान्त करते हुए, सिविल विमानन महानिदेशक निम्नलिखित अधिकारियों को सान्ताज 
( बम्बई ); दमदम (कलकत्ता ) और मीना बक्कम ( मद्रास ) के सरकारी हवाई अड्डों पर अन्तर्राष्ट्रीय 


4382 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


- 


. 


- . 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - 


. - - . . 


. 


. 


. 


. - - 


और स्वराष्ट्रीय यानी बकिंग हालों और लौंजों तथा उनसे सम्बद्ध अहातों में प्रवेश करने के लिए प्रवेश 
टिकट, उनकी परीक्षा करने के लिए, मांगने के लिए प्राधिकृत करता है - - 

1. हवाई अड्डा नियंत्रक बम्बई कलकत्ता / मद्रास 
2. ऊपर वर्णित एयरपोर्टों पर तैनात ज्येष्ठ हवाई अड्डा आफिसर ; हवाई अड्डा आफिसर , 

सहायक हवाई अड्डा प्राफिसर । 
3. ऊपर वर्णित एयरपोर्टी पर तैनात सिविल विमानन विभाग के प्रशासनिक अधिकारी 

और लेखा अधिकारी । 
4. ऊपरवणित एयरपोटों पर तैनात हवाई अड्डा प्रचालक, एयरपोर्ट टिकट लिपिक, रखवाल 

और चौकीदार । 
5. कोई भी पुलिस आफिसर । 

[ सं० 15-13/ 67- राजस्व ] 

जी० सी० आर्य , 
सिविल विमानन महानिदेशक । 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 14th July 1971 
S . O . 3127 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, the Central Government hereby re - appoints the 
following persons as members of the Central Board of Film Censors with effect 
from the dates as given below : 


S. No . 


Name 


From 


To 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


1. Shri A. L. Srinivasan 
2. Shri B. R. Chopra 


25- 7 -71 
26 - 7 - 71 


30- 9- 71 
30 - 9 -71 


[ No. F . 11 / 5 / 71 - F ( C ) . ] 
सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 14 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3127. - - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) 
धारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 
नीचे दी गई तारीखों से केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड का फिर से सदस्य नियुक्त किया है : - - 


नाम 


कब से 


कब तक 


संख्या 


1 श्री ए० एल० श्रीनिवासन 
2 श्री बी०आर० चोपड़ा 


25 - 7 - 71 
26 - 7 - 71 


30 - 9 - 71 
30 - 9 - 71 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


[ संख्या फा• 11/5/ 71- एफ०सी० ] 


Sec . 3 (ii) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 189 ; 4383 
- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 15th July 1971 
S . O . 3128. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cine 
matograph Act, 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of 
the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby ap 
points following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Cen 
sors as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect 
from 1st July , 1971 to 30th September , 1971 . 

1. Dr. S . Vijayalakshmi 
2 . Smt. Leela Parthasarathi 
3 . Smt. Sarojini Varadappan 
4 . Kumari P . Shanta Bai 
5 . Smt. M . Leelavathi 
6 . Shri B . S . Srinivasa 
7. Smt. Rohini Krishnachandra 
8 . Dr. ( Miss ) C . M . Leelavati 
9 . Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyulu . 

[ No. F , 11 / 2 / 71 - F ( C ) .] 


नई दिल्ली, 15 जलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 312:9. - -- चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र 

नियमावली , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप नियम 2 के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप नियम ( 3 ) 
द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड से परामर्श 
करके एतद्वारा निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को 1 जुलाई, 1971 से 30 सितम्बर, 1971 तक उक्त बोर्ड 
के मद्रास सलाहकार मण्डल का सदस्य नियुक्त किया है : - - 

1 . डा० एस० विजयलक्ष्मी 
2. श्रीमती लीला पार्थासारथी 
3. श्रीमती सरोजिनी वरदप्पन 
4. कुमारी पी० शान्ता बाई 
5. श्रीमती एम० लीलावती 
6. श्री बी० एम० श्रीनिवास 
7. श्रीमती रोहिणी कृष्णचन्द्र 
8. डा० ( कुमारी ) सी० एम० लीलावती 
9. श्रीमती हेमलता अंजनेयुले 

[ संख्या फा० 11/ 2/ 71-एफ०सी० ] 


S . 0 . 3129. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the 
Cinematograph Act , 1952, and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 
9 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shrimati Jayasree Sen as member of the Advisory Panel of Central Board 
of Film Censors at Calcutta with effect from 1st July , 1971 to 30th September , 1971 , 

[ No. 11/ 4 / 71 - F ( C ).] 


एस . मो० 3129. - - चलचित्र अधिनियम , 1952 की धारा 5 ( 1 ) और चलचित्र 
( सेंसर ) मिथमावली , 1958 के नियम 9 के उप -नियम ( 2 ) के साथ पठित नियम 8 के उप -नियम 
( 3 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्वारा श्रीमती जयश्रीसेन को 
1 जलाई, 1971 से 30 सितम्बर , 1971 तक केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड के कलकत्ता सलाहकार मण्डल 
का सदस्य नियुक्त किया है । 

[ संख्या 11/4/ 71- एफ०मी० ] 


438A THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART II - 


New Delhi, the 16th July 1971 
S . 0 . 3130. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 10 of the Cinemato .. 
graph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints Smt. 
S . R . Venkataraman, Station Director , All India Radio , Hyderabad , to offictate as 
Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors , Bombay with effect from the 
torenoon of 2nd July , 1971, until further orders . 

[ No . F . 2 / 51 / 71 - FC . ] 
K. K . KHAN , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली, 16 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3130.--- चलचित्र (सेंसर ) नियमावली, 1958 के नियम 10 के द्वारा 
प्रदत्त अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्वारा केन्द्र निदेशक, आकाशवाणी , हैदराबाद 
में श्रीमती एस० आर० वेकटरामन को 2 जुलाई , 1971 के पूर्वान्ह से अगले आदेश तक , स्थानापन्न 
प्रादेशिक अधिकारी, केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर बोर्ड, बम्बई नियुक्त किया है । 

[ सं० फा० 2/51/ 71-एफ० सी० ] 

के० के० खान , अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 21st July 1971 
S . O . 3131 .- -In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act , 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri K . K . Mukerji, Assistant in the Consulate of India , Basrah , to 
perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 4th March , 1971, 
till 28th April , 1971 . 

[ No. F . T . 4330 / 4 / 71. 1 
विश्श मत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली , 21 जुलाई , 1971 
एस० ओ० 3131. -- - राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( पथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम , 
1948 के खंड 2 की धारा ( क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्र सरकार इसके द्वारा बसरा स्थित भारत 
के कोमलावास में सहायक , श्री के० के मुखर्जी की 4 मार्च , 1971 से 28 अप्रैल , 1971 तक 
कोसली अभिकर्ता रूप में कार्य करने का अधिकार देती है । 

[ फाइल संख्या टी० 433 0/ 4/ 71] 


S . 0 . 3132. -- In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act , 1948 , the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri B . C . Chaturvedi, Assistant in the Consulate General of India , 

Muscat , to perform the duties of a Consular Agent , with effect from the 26th 
December , 1970 . 

2 . Notification No. S . O . 120 , dated the gth January 1971 in respect of Shri 
Narinder Singh , Assistant may be treated as cancelled with immediate effect . 

[ No , F , T . 4330 / 2 / 70. ] 
एस०पी० 3132. --- राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम , 
1948 के खंड 2 की धारा ( क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्र सरकार इसके द्वारा मस्कत-स्थित भारत 
के प्रधान कोसलाबास सहायक , श्री वी०सी० चतुर्वेदी की 26 दिसम्बर , 1970 से कोसली अभिकर्ता 
के रूप में कार्य करने का अधिकार देती है । 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 18934385 


-- - 


2. श्री नरेन्द्र सिंह, महायक से सम्बद्ध अधिसूचना सं० एस०प्रो० 120, दिनांक 9- 1- 71 
को इसी समय से रद्द समझा जाय । 

[ फाइल स० टी० 4330/ 2/ 70] 
New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 
S . O . 3133. - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and 
Consular Officers ( Onths and Fees ) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby 
authorises Shri I. S. Ahluwalia, Assistant in the Commission of India, Mombasa 
to perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect, until further 
orders . 

[ No . F . T . 4930 / 4 / 71.] 

D. C . GOHAIN , Attache ( Consular ). 
एस . पो03133 - राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम , 1948 
के खड 2 की धारा ( क ) के अनुसरण में केन्द्र सरकार एतद् द्वारा श्री आई० एस० अहलूवालिया , 
सहायक , भारत का कमीशन, मोम्बासा, को तत्काल से , प्रगले आदेश होते तक , कोंसली अभिकर्ता का 
कार्य करने का अधिकार देती है । 

[ फाइल संख्या टी० 4330/ 4/ 71 ] 

डी० सी० गोहैन , 
सहवारी ( कोसली ) । 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 21st August 1971 
S . O . 3134 ,- The following notifications which the Delhi Development Authority 
proposes to make in the Master Plan for Delhi are hereby published for public in 
formation . Any person having any objection or suggestion with respect to the 
proposed change may send the objection / suggestion in writing to the Secretary 
Delhi Development Authority , Delhi Vikas Bhavan , Indraprastha Estate New 
Delhi- 1 , within a period of 30 days from the date of this notice . The person 
making the objection / suggestion should also give his name and address : - 

Modification 
" At page 60 of the text of the Master Plan.. 
(1 ) for item (1) of clause (b ) of the paragraph headed " III, Government Om 
ces " the following shall be substituted , namely : — 
" ( i) F . A . R . for plots other than those described in item , ( ii) and ( 111 ) here 

under . . .. . . . . . . . 150 . " 
( 2 ) After 1te m ( ii ) bid , the following shall be added as item ( 111) , namely 
( lii) F .A .R . for plots 6 and 7 of Indraprastha Estate , located to the south of 
the junction of Ring Road and Indraprastha Marg . . . . . . . . 400." 

[ No . F . ( 421 ) / 68 - MP. Pt. ] 

H . N. FOTEDAR, Secy . 


दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण 


नई दिल्ली , 21 अगस्त , 1971 


का० प्रा० 3134 -- दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण नीचेलिखे संशोधन मुख्य योजना (मास्टर प्लान ) 
में करना चाहता है और उन्हें सर्वसाधारण की सूचना के लिए प्रकाशित किया जा रहा है । 
जो कोई इनके सम्बन्ध में कोई आपत्ति या सुझाव देना चाहता हो तो वह अपनी आपत्ति / सुझाव 


4286 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1693 [ PART II 


को लिख कर सचिव , दिल्ली विकास प्राधिकरण विकास , भवन , इन्द्रप्रस्थ इस्टेट , नई दिल्ली - 1 
के पास इस प्रकाशन के 30 दिन के भीतर भेज सकता है । जो व्यक्ति प्रापति / सुझाव भेजें 
वह अपना नाम तथा पूरा पता भी लिखें । 
संशोषन : --- 


" मुख्य योजना के पृष्ठ 60 पर ( 1) मद ( 1 ) धारा ( बी ) पैरा ( 3 ) में दिये गये 

__ शीर्षक " सरकारी कार्यालय में नीचे लिखा संशोधन किया जाना है । 
“ ( 1 ) मद ( 2 ) और ( 3) में उल्लिखित भूखण्डों के लिए एफ० ए० प्रार . इस 

प्रकार . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 होगा । 
( 2 ) मद ( 2 ) के पश्चात् मद ( 3 ) इस प्रकार रखा जायेगा । 
( 3) इन्द्रप्रस्था नार्ग तथा रिंग रोड जंकशन के दक्षिण में भूखंड सं० 6 और 7 
के लिये एफ० ए० आर० . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400 होगा " । 

[सं० एफ० 3( 421)/ 68- एम० पी० ] 

एच० एन० फोतेदर , सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Dopartment of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 17th July 1971 
8 . 0 . 3135 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in that behalf, the Presi 
dent hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Central Cost Accounts 
Pool (Recruitment and Conditions of Service ) Rules, 1961, namely : 

1, ( 1) These rules may be called the Central Cost Accounts Pool (Recruitment 
and Conditions of Service ) Amendment Rules, 1971. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette . 

2 . In the Central Cost Accounts Pool (Recruitment and Conditions of Service ) 
Rules , 1981 , 
(i ) in Schedule I, for the Table under the heading "Grades and the No. of 

Posts in each grade ", the following Table shall be substituted , namely : - 


Grade 


Permanent 


Temporary 


Total 


Chieft Cost Accounts Oficer 
Deputy Chief Cost Accounts 

Officer, 
Senior Cost Accounts 

Officers. 
Cost Accounts Officers 
Assistant Cost Accounts 

Officers. 
Cost Accountants 


( 11 ) in Schedule III 
(a ) in paragraph 1, in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) relating to the post of Chief 

Cost Accounts Officer , in entry ( 11 ) in the second column, for the 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4387 


- 


- 


- 


words " ten years" and " eight years " , the words " Afteen years" and 

" ten years " shall respectively be substituted ; 
(b ) After paragraph 1 , the following Note shall be inserted , namely : 
" NOTE. — The qualifications mentioned above will be relaxable at Com 

mission s discretion in the case of candidates otherwise well 

qualified . " ; 
(c ) in paragraph 3, 
( 1 ) for the figures " 45 " against the post of Chief Cost Accounts Officer , 

the figures " 50 " shall be substituted ; 
(2 ) for the words " specifled categories " , the words " specified categories 

of persons " shall be substituted ; 
( 3 ) for the words " permanent Central| State Government servants ", the 
words " Government servants " shall be substituted . 

[ No. A. 12018/1 / 71- E.I ( A ) .] 
H. K . NARULA, Under Secy . 


वित्त मंत्रालय 

व्यय विभाग 

नई दिल्ली 17 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3135 - - राष्ट्रपति, संविधान के अनुच्छेद 309 के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त 
शक्तियों और उस निमित्त उन्हें समर्थ बनाने वाली अन्य शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , 
केन्द्रीय लागत लेखापूल (भर्ती और सेवा की शर्ते ) नियम , 1961 में और आगे संशोधन 
करने के लिये निम्नलिखित नियम एतदद्वारा बनाते हैं , अर्थात : - - 
1. ( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम केन्द्रीय लागत लेखा पूल (भर्ती और सेवा की शर्ते ) 

संशोधन नियम , 1971 होगा । 
( 2) ये शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवृत्त होंगे । 


2. केन्द्रीय लागत लेखा पूल (भर्ती और सेवा की शर्ते ) नियम , 1961 में अनुसूची - 1 

में प्रत्येक श्रेणी में पदों की श्रेणियों और संख्या वाले शीर्षक के अन्तर्गत 
सारणी के लिए , निम्नलिखित सारणी प्रतिस्थापित की जायेगी . अर्थात : --- 


श्रेणी 


स्थायी 


अस्थायी 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


. 


- 


मुख्य लागत लेखा अधिकारी 
उप -मुख्य लागत लेखा अधिकारी 
ज्येष्ठ लागत लेखा अधिकारी 
लामत लेखा अधिकारी 
सहायक लागत लेखा अधिकारी 
स्वागत लेखा पाल 


4रा 


4388 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 [PART II -. 


( ii ) अनुसूची 3 में .- - 
( क ) परा 1 में , मुख्य लागत लेखा अधिकारी के पद से संबंधित उप -पैरा 

( 1 ) में प्रविष्टिः ( ii) म दूसरे स्तम्भ में , दस वर्ष और पाठ वर्ष 
शब्दों के लिए क्रमश : पंद्रह वर्ष और दस वर्ष शब्द प्रतिस्यापित 

किए जाएंगे ; 
( ख ) पैरा 1 के पश्चात् , निम्नलिखित टिप्पण अन्तःस्थापित किया जाएगा , 

अर्थात : --- 
"fप्पण -~ ऊपर यणित अर्हताएं अन्यथा सुहित अयर्थियों की दशा में आयोग 

. के विवेकानुसार शिथिल की जा सकेंगी ; " 
(ग ) परा 3 में , 
( 1 ) मख्य लागत लेखा अधिकारी के पद के सामने अंक 45 के लिए अंक 

50 प्रतिस्थापित किया जाएगा ; 
( 2) विनिर्दिष्ट प्रवर्ग शब्दों के लिए विनिविष्ट प्रवर्गों के व्यक्ति शब्द 

प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएंगे ; 
( 3 ) केन्द्रीय / राज्य सरकार के स्थायी सेवकों शब्दों के लिए सरकारी 
सेवकों शब्द प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएंगे । 

[सं० ए० 1 2018/1/ 71-ई प्राई (ए ) ] 
हरि कृष्ण नारुला , अवर सचिव ( ई)। 


(Department of Expenditure) 


New Delhi, the 17th July 1971 


S . O , 3136 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clouse ( 5 ) of article 148 of the Constitution and of all other powers enabling 
him in this behalf and after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, the President hereby makes the following regulations further to 
amend the Civil Service Regulations, namely : 


1 . ( 1 ) These regulations may be called the Civil Service ( Third Amendment ) 
Regulations , 1971 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 


2 . In the Civil Service Regulations, to Article 911, the following note shall be 
added , namely : -- 
" NOTE : - - Where the office of the authority competent to sanction pension 

to a retiring Government servant is situated in the circle of an Audit 
Officer other than the Audit Officer who audits the pay and 
allowances of such retiring Government servant immediately before 
his retirement, the latter Audit Officer shall be the Audit Officer for 
the purposes of this Section ." 


[ No . 4 (3) -E .V ( A) / 71 . ] 
S . S. L.. MALHOTRA, Under Secy . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE . OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4389 


(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1971 
S . O . 3137. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 59 of the State 
Bank of India ( Subsidiary Banks ) Act, 1959 (38 of 1959 ) , the Central Govern , 
ment hereby specifies 15th day of July , 1971 as the date on which the existing 
Bank of Jaipur Limited , shall stand dissolved , 

[ No. 3 ( 3 ) PSB - SB / 11. ] 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 5 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3137. - - स्टेट बैंक आफ इण्डिया ( सहायक बैंक ) अधिनियम , 1959 ( 1959 
का अड़तीसवां ) की धारा 58 में प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 15 
जुलाई, 1971 की तिथि नियत करती है कि उक्त तिथि को वर्तमान बैंक माफ जयपुर लिमिटेड 
विघटित हो जायेगा । 

[ सं० 3( 3) पी०एस०वी० एस०बी०/ 71 ] 

डी० के० सेन , प्रथर सचिव । 


New Delhi, the 24th July 1971 
S . O . 3138. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- clause ( ii ) of clause ( f ) 
of sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 9 of the Industrial Development Blank of India Act , 
1964 (18 of 1. 984 ) , the Central Government hereby notifles the MEDIOBANCA, 
Milano, Italy as a financial institution for the purpose of that sub - clause. 

[ No. F. 10 (38) - Corp/ 71] . 
D. K . SEN, Under Secy . 


(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 21st June 1971 
S . O . 3139 . - In exercise of the powers conferred upon it by clause ( c ) of 
section 10 of the Agricultural Refinance Corporation Act , 1963 ( 10 of 1963 ) , the 
Central Government hereby nominates Shri A . K . Dutt, Joint Secretary , Ministry 
of Finance (Department of Banking ) as a director of the Agricultural Reqnance 
Corporation vice Shri K . Ramamurthy. 

[ No. F . 14/ 9 / 71 - ACI. 7 

L . D . KATARIA , Dy . Secy .. 
( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 21 जून, 1971 
एस०प्रो० 3139. – कृषि पुनर्वित्त निगम अधिनियम , 1963 ( 1963 का दसवां) की धारा 
10 के खण्ड ( ग ) के द्वारा प्राप्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार, एप्तद्वारा श्री ए . के . 
दत्त , संयुक्त सचिव, वित्त मंत्रालय ( बैंकिंग विभाग ) को श्री के . रामामूर्ति के स्थान पर कृषि पुनर्वित्त 
निगम का निदेशक नामित करती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 14/ 9/ 71-ए० सी० I ] 


एल० डी० कटारिया ,, उप सचिव । 


(Department of Banking) 

Na Delhi, 101164 July 1971 
S. O . 3140. - Statement, of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the oth July , 1971 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


4 , 28 ,000 


Reserve Fund 


National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . 


National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 


. 


. 


4390THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893[PARTII— 


National Lodustrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 


. 


5, 00, 00,000 Notes : 

16 , 35 , 95 , 000 
Rupee Coin . 
150 ,00 ,00 ,000 Small Coin . . 

3 ,69 , 000 
BitsPerchased and Discounted : 
190 ,00 ,00 ,000 (a ) Internal . . . . . . . . 9 , 16 , 94 ,000 

(b ) External . . . . . . . 
39,00,00,000 (c) Government Treasury Bills . . . . . 25,65, 31,000 

Balances Held Abroed * . . . . . . 109 , 31 , 39 , 000 
Investments * * . . . . . . . . 224 ,60 , 58, 000 

Loans and Advances to : 
135 ,00 ,00 ,000 

0 Central Government . . . 

( ii ) State Governments @ . . . . 101373 ,00 , 000 
Loans and Advances to : 
(i) Scheduled Commercial Bankst 

. . 247,92 ,80 ,000 
( ) State Cooperative Bankstt , , , · 197,45,95, 000 
54,85,30, 000 (iii ) Others . . . . . . . . 4 ,88, 74 , 000 
4 ,03 ,71,000 Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Ford 

(a ) Loans and Advances to : 
202,01,39,000 (1) State Governments 

. . . . . 42 , 03,57, 000 
11,57242,000 (ü ) State Co- operative Banks 

. . 23 ,95 ,33,000 
81, 17, 000 (ii ) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
30 , 21, 000 ( b ) Investment in CentralLand Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and advances from National Agriculural Credit 
(Stabilisation ) Fund . . . 

. . IO , 14 , 98, 000 


Deposits : 


(a ) Government 

(1) CentralGovernment 
) State Governments 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


(b ) Banks 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks . . . 
(ü ) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . . 
( ii) Nor - Scheduled State Co -operative Banks . 
(iv ) Other Banks . . . . . . 


. 
. 
. 


(c ) Others . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Bills Payable 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


148, 30 ,42, 000 Loans and Advances to State Co- operative Banks, Loans, 

Advances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 

(Long Term Operations ) Fund . . . . . . 13 ,21,93 ,000 
48,09,82,000 (a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 55 ,04 ,21,000 

(b ) Investment in bonds/debentures issued by the Develop 

ment Bank . . . . . . 
252, 02, 76 ,000 Other Assets . . . . . . . 

59 ,42 ,99 ,000 


Other Liabilities 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Rupees 


. 


. 


. 


. 1141,02 , 20 ,000 


Rupees 


. 


, 


, 


1141,02 ,20 ,000 


* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short - term Securities. 

* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term Opera 
tions) Fund. 

Exdıding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund, but including temporary Overdrafts to State 
Governments . 

+ Includes Rs. 157 ,91, 00 ,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 

# Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit 
(Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 14th day of July , 1971, 

S . JAGANNATHAN , 

Governor. 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,18934391 


An Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 , for the week ended the oth day of July 1971 , 

ISSUE DBPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs . 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


. 


Notes held in the Banking Department. 
Notes in circulation . , . 
TotalNotes issued . . . . 


16 ,35,95,000 
4475,06,84,000 


Gold Coin and Bullion : 
: (a ) Held in India . 

(b ) Held outside India . 
4491,42 ,79 , 000 Foreign Securities . . 


. 


. 


. 


182,53 ,I1,000 


. 


253,42 ,00 ,000 


TOTAL 


. 


. 


. 


435 ,95 , 11 ,000 


Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other com 

mercial paper . . . . 


37 ,53 , 13 , 000 
4017, 94 ,55, 000 


4392THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893[PartII 


TOTAL LIABLLITIES 


. 


4491,42 ,79, 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


. 


. 


. 


. 


4491,42 ,75,000 


Dated the 14th day of July , 1971, 


S . JAGANNATEAN , 

Governor , 


[No. F .3(3)- BC171 ) 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 16 जुलाई , 1971 
एस . प्रो० 3140. --- 9 जुलाई 1971 को रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंडिया के बैंकिंग विभाग के कार्यकलाप का विवरण 


देयताएं 


रुपये 


आस्तियां 


रुपये 


चुकता पूंजी 
प्रारक्षित निधि 


5, 00, 00, 000 नोट 
150, 00, 00, 000 रुपय का सिक्का 

छोटा सिक्का 


16 , 35, 95, 000 

4, 28, 000 
3, 59, 000 


राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
(स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 


9 ,16, 94, 000 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893.4393 


25 , 65, 31 , 000 
109, 31, 39 , 000 
224, 60, 58 , 000 


190 , 00, 00, 000 खरीदे और भुनाये गये बिल : -- 

( क ) देशी 
39, 00 , 00, 000 ( ख ) विदेशी 

( ग ) सरकारी खजाना बिल 

विदेशो में रखा हुआ बकाया 
135 , 00, 00 , 000 निवेश * * 

___ ऋण और आग्रिमः 

(i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को 
54, 85 , 30, 000 ( ii ) राज्य सरकारों को @ . 
4 , 03, 71, 000 ऋण और अग्रिमः -- 

( i ) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को 
202,01, 39, 000 ( ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को । 
__ 11, 57,42,000 ( iii ) दूसरों को 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि से 

ऋण, अग्रिम और निवेश 


राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 
जमाराशियां : -- 
( क ) सरकारी 
(i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार 
( ii ) राज्य सरकारें 
( ख ) बक 
(i ) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंक 
( ii ) अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक 


101, 73, 66, 000 


247, 92,80, 000 
197, 45 , 9 5, 000 

4,88, 74, 000 


देयाताए 


रुपये 


आस्तियां 


रुपये 


(iii ) गैर अनुसुचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक 
( iv ) अन्य बैंक 


42, 03,57, 000 
23, 95, 33, 000 


( ग ) अन्य 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


10, 14, 98, 000 


देव बिल 


. 


. 


. 


( क ) ऋण और अग्रिमः 
81, 17, 000 ( i ) राज्य सरकारों को 
30, 21 , 000 (ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंको को 

ii ) केन्द्रीय भमिबन्धक बैंकों के 
148, 30 ,42, 000 ( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैंको के डिबेंचरो में निवेश . 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से ऋण और 
48, 09, 82, 000 अग्रिम राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम . 

राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 

से ऋण, अग्रिम और निवेश 
152, 02, 76, 000 ( क ) विकास बैंक को ऋण और अग्रिम . 

( ख ) विकास बैंक द्वारा जारी किय गए बांडों 

डिबेंचरों में निवेश 
अन्य अस्तियां 


13, 21, 93, 000 


अन्य देयताएं 


55 , 04, 21 , 000 


4394THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893[PARTII 


59, 42, 99, 000 


रुपये 


. 


1141,02, 20, 000 


रुपये 


1141, 02, 20, 000 


* नकदी , आवधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल हैं । 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि में से किये गये निवेश शामिल नहीं हैं । 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं , परन्तु राज्य सरकारों के अस्थायी प्रोवरड्राफ्ट शामिल हैं । 
रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंडिया अधिनियम की धारा 17 ( 4 ) ( ग ) के अधीन अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंको को मीयादी बिलो पर अग्रिम दिये गये 157, 91, 00, 000 / 

रुपये शामिल हैं । 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं । 

एस० जगन्नाथन , 
तारीख 14 जुलाई, 1971 

गवर्नर । 


रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंडिया अधिनियम , 1934 के अनुसरण में जुलाई 1971 की 9 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिए लेखा 

इशू विभाग 


देयताएं 


रुपये 


रुपये 


आस्तियां 


रुपये 


रुपये 


बैंकिंग विभाग में रखे हुए नोट 16, 35, 95, 000 
संचलन में नोट 

4475, 06, 84, 000 
जारी किए गए कुल नोटः । 


4491, 42, 79, 000 


सोने का सिक्का और बुलियन : 
( क ) भारत में रखा हुआ 182, 53,11, 000 
( ख ) भारत के बाहर रखा हुआ 
विदेशी प्रतिभूतियां 

253, 42, 00, 000 

जोड़ 
रुपये का सिक्का 
भारत सरकार की रूपया प्रतिभूतियाँ 


435 , 95 , 11, 000 

37, 53, 13, 000 
4017, 94, 55, 000 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,18934395 


देशी विनिमय बिल और 

- दूसरे वाणिज्य पत्र 
4491, 42, 79, 000 


कुल देयताएं 


कल अस्तियां 


4491, 42, 79, 000 


एस० चगन्नाथन , 

गर्वनर । 
[ सं० एफ० 3( 3)-बी० सी०/ 71] 


तारीख 14 जुलाई, 1971 


New Delhi, the 2nd August 1971 
S . O . 3141, -- Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, as on the 23rd July 1971. 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


D 


. . 


.. 


. 


. 


Capital Paid Up , , , , , , , , 5 , 00 , 00 , 000 NO 

29 , 52 ,55, 000 
Rupee Coin . 

2 , 98 , 000 
Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . 150 ,00 ,00,000 Small Coin . . . . . . . 3783,000 

Büls Purchased and Discounted : 
National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 190 ,00 , 00 ,000 (a ) Internal . . . . 

8 ,53 ,30, 000 

(b ) External . . 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund 39,00 ,00 ,000 (c) Government Treasury Bills 

35 ,69 ,08 ,000 
Balances Held Abroad * . . . 

149,23 ,71,000 
Investments * * . . . . . . 

. 265, 97 , 34 , 000 

Loans and Advances to : 
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund . 135 ,00, 00 ,000 

(i) CentralGovernment . 

( i ) State Governments @ . . . . . 126 ,02449 , 000 
Deposits : - 

Loans and Advances to : 
( a) Government 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Bankst . , 159, 38, 70 ,000 
(i) CentralGovernment . , . , . 55 , 85 , 18 , 000 (ü ) State Co-operatiye Banksti . . . 197, 15,57,000 
(7 ) State Governments . . . . . . 4 , 13 ,08 ; 000 

( i ) Others . . . . . . . 4 ,64 ,99, 000 
Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agri 

cultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund 
(6 ) Banks 

(a ) Loans and Advances to 
(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks . . , 220,95, 13, 000 

(1) State Governments . . . . . 42 , 03 ,55 ,000 
(ü ) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks . . . 11, 99 ,63 ,000 ( ) State Co-operative Banks . . . 23, 73 ,29,000 
(ii) Non - Scheduled State Co- operative Banks , , 81,17,000 ( üi) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(iv ) Other Banks , , . . . . . 34 , 12 ,000 (b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
(c) Others . . . . . . . . 155.31, 79, 000 (Stabilisation ) Fund . 

10 ,14,98 ,000 


4396THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893 


. 


PARTII- 


Bills Payable . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 46 ,12,74,000 


Loans and Advances to State Co- operative Banks Loans, Ad 

vances and Investments from National Industrial Credit 
(Long Term Operations ) Fund , 
(a) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank . . 
(b ) lovestment in bonds debentures issued by the Develop 

ment Bank . . . . . . . . 
Other Assets . . . . . . . . 


15 ,05,37, 000 
55,04,21,000 


Other Liabilities . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


151,01, 95,000 


43,28,85 ,000 


Rupees . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1165 ,54 79,000 ] 


Rupees 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 1165,54, 79, 000 


1 


* Includes Cash , Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities, 
* * Excluding Investments from the Nationals Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Operations ) Fund . 
@ ExcludingLoansand Advances from the NationalAgricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund , but including temporary Overdrafts to State 

Governments, 
+ Includes Rs. II1,31,00 ,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4 ) (c) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 
IfExcluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabi 
Lisation ) Fuod . 

S . JAGANNATH N , 
Dated the 28th day of July, 1971 , 

Governor. 


Sec.3(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21.1971/SRAVANA30,18934307 


An Account pursuant to the Reserye Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 23rd day of July, 1971, 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


4398 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


- 


Notes held in the Banking Department 
Notes io circulation . . . . 
TotalNotes issued . . . . 


. 


. 


. 


182,53 , 11, 000 


- 29,52,55,000 
. 4347,07,89,000 
. 


Gold Coin and Bullion 
(a ) Held in India 
(b ) Held outside India , 
Foreign Securities . 

TOTAL 


4376 ,60 ,44,000 


. 


. 


. 


223 , 42 , 00 , 000 


, 


. 


. 


405 , 95311 ,000 


Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securitics 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other commer 

cial paper . . . . 


42 ,71,86 , 000 
3927 -93 -47 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES . 


, 


. 


4376 ,60,44 ,000 


TOTAL ASSETS , 


4376,60,44,000 


THEGAZETTEOF_INDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893[Part11 


S . JAGANNATHAN , 
Dated the 28th day of July, 1971, 

Governor , 

INo. F . 3 (3 )-BC /71.] 

K . YESURATNAM , Under Secy . 
CORRIGENDUM 
In the statement of the Afairs of the Reserve Bank of India Banking and Issue 
Departments as on 30th April 1971 published at page 3152 - 3154 of Part II Section 
3 ( ii ) of the Gazette of India issue dated 5th June 197ị the figures against the head 
" Loans and Advances to ( ii ) State Governments appearing on the Assets side of 
the Statement of Banking Department should be , read as Rs. 3 , 85 ,23 ,34,000 instead 
of Rs. 6 , 85 , 23 , 34 ,000 . In an account pursuant to Reserve Bank of India Act 1934 
for the week ended 30th day of April 1971 , Issue Department the total assets on 
the assets side should be read as Rs. 43 ,35 ,09,84 ,000 instead of Rs. $ 3, 34 ,09,84 ,000, 


नई दिल्ली, 2 अगस्त , 1971 
एस . प्रो० 3141.--- 23 जुलाई 1971 को रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंण्डिया के बैंकिंग विभाग के कार्यकलाप का विवरण 


देयताएँ 


रुपये 


प्रास्तियां 


रुपये 


चुकता पूंजी . 
आरक्षित निधि . 


.. 


. 


.. 


29, 52, 55, 000 

2, 98 , 000 
3, 83, 000 


. 


राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएँ ) निधि . 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 
(स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 


8,53, 30 ,000 


5, 00 ,00,000 नोट . 
150,00, 00, 000 रुपये का सिक्का 

छोटा सिक्का 

खरीदे और भुनाए गये बिल : - 
190, 00, 00, 000 

( क ) देशी 
39, 00, 00, 000 ( ख ) विदेशी 

( ग ) सरकारी खजाना बिल 

विदेशों में रखा हुआ बकाया * 
I 35, 00, 00, 000 निदेश * 

ऋण और अग्रिम : 

( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को 
55,85,18 ,000 ( i) राज्य सरकारों को । . 
4, 13, 08,000 

ऋण और अग्रिम : 
220, 95 , 13, 000 

प्रचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को 
11 ,99, 63,000 ( 11 ) राज्य सहकारी बैंको को @ 

( iii ) दूसरों को 


SEC.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,18934399 


35, 69, 08, 000 
149, 23, 71, 000 
265, 97, 34, 000 


राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि . 
जमा राशियां : 
( क ) सरकारी 
( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार 
( i) राज्य सरकारें 
( ख ) बैंक 
(i) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंक 
( i) अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक . 


. 


. 


126 ,02,49,000 


. 


. 
. 


. 


159, 38, 70, 000 
197, 15, 57,000 

4, 64, 99, 000 


- 


- 


देवताएँ 


रुपये 


रुपये 


- 


81, 17, 000 
34, 12, 000 


( iii ) गैर अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक 
( iv ) अन्य बैंक . . . . 

( ग) अन्य . . . 
देय बिल . . . 
अन्य देयताएँ . . . 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


155, 31, 79, 000 


प्रास्तियों 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएँ ) निधि से 
ऋण, अग्रिम और निवेश 
( क ) ऋण और अग्रिम : 
। राज्य सरकारों को . 

42, 03, 55 , 000 
( 1 ) राज्य सहकारी बकों को . . 23, 73, 29, 000 
(iii ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबंधक बैंकों को 

( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबंधक बैंकों के डिबेंचरों में निवेश 10,14, 98, 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरी करण ) निधि से ऋण और अग्रिम 
राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम . 15, 05, 37, 000 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएँ ) निधि से 
ऋण अग्रिम और निवेश 
( क ) विकास बैंक को ऋण और अग्रिम . 55, 04, 21 , 000 
( ख ) विकास बैंक द्वारा जारी किये गए बांडों /डिबेचरों में निवेश 
अन्य आस्तियां . 

. 43, 28, 85, 000 


46,12,74, 000 


151, 01, 95, 000 


1400THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,1893[PARTII--- 


रुपये 1165, 54, 79, 000 

रुपये 1165, 54, 79, 000 
* नकदी, आवधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल हैं । 
* * राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय औद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि में से किए गए निवेश शामिल नहीं हैं । 

+ राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएँ ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं , परन्तु राज्य सरकारों के अस्थायी प्रोवरड्राफ्ट शामिल हैं । 
+ रिजर्वबैंक आफ इण्डिया अधिनियम की धारा 17 ( 4 ) ( ग ) के अधीन अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों की मियादी बिलों पर अग्रिम दिये गये 111, 31, 00,000/ 

ऋण रूपये शामिल हैं । 

@ राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएँ ) निधि और राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं । 
तारीख : 28 जुलाई, 1971 

एस० जगन्नाथन , गवर्नर । 


रुपये 


नोट 


रिजर्व बैंक आफ इण्डिया अधिनियम , 1934 के अनुसरण में जुलाई 1971 की 23 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिए लेखा 

इशु विभाग 
देयताएं 

रुपये रुपये अस्तियां 

रुपय 
बैंकिंग विभाग में रखे हुए 

सोने का सिक्का और बुलियन : 
29,52, 55,000 

( क ) भारत में रखा हुआ 182, 53, 11 , 000 
संचलन में नोट 4347 ,07, 89,000 

( ख ) भारत के बाहर रखा 

हुआ . . . 
विदेशी प्रतिभूतिया 

223, 42, 00, 000 
जारी किए गये कुल नोट 

4376, 60,44, 000 

जोड . . 

. 

405, 95, 11 , 000 
रुपये का सिक्का . 

42, 71 , 86, 000 
भारत सरकार की रुपया प्रतिभूतियाँ . . 3927 , 93,47, 000 

देशी विनिमय बिल और दूसरे वाणिज्य पत्र 
कुल देयताएं 4376, 60, 44, 000 

कुल प्रास्तियां 4376, 60, 44, 000 
तारीख : 28 जुलाई 1971 

एस . जगनाथन , गवर्नर । 
[ सं० एफ० 3 ( 3)- बी० सी०/ 71 ] 

के० येसूरत्नम, अनुसचिव । 

शद्धिपत्न 
भारत के राजपत्र के 5 जून 1971 के अंक के भाग II , खण्ड 3 ( ii ) के पृष्ठ 3152- 3154 में प्रकाशित रिजर्व बैंक आफ इंडिया के बैंकिंग और इशू विभागों 
के कार्यकलाप के 30 अप्रैल, 1971 के विवरण में बैंकिंग विभाग से संबंधित विवरण के आस्तियों वाले पक्ष में "ऋण और अग्रिम -- i ) राज्य सरकारों 
को " शीर्ष के सामने दिये गये रु . 6, 85, 23, 34, 000 के बदले रु0 3, 85, 23, 34, 000 पढ़े जाएं । रिजर्व बैंक आफ इण्डिया अधिनियम , 1934 के अनुसरण 
में अप्रैल, 1971 की 30 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिए दिये गये इशू विभाग के लेखे के आस्तियों वाले पक्ष में कल आस्तियो को || 
- 043, 34, 09, 84, 000 के बदले रु०43, 35, 09, 84, 000 पढा जाए । 


SEC.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,18934401 


4402 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ PART I - - 


(Dopartment of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 29th May 1971 
S . 0 , 3142. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- clause ( iii ) of clause 
44 ) of Section 2 of the Income tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Central Govern 
lent hereby authorises : 


1. Shri H . S . Nanda , who is Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to 
Axercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2. The appointment of Shri B. K . Ujwal made in Notification No . 64 ( F . No. 16 / 
118 / 69- ITCC ) dated 7th June, 1969 is hereby cancelled , 
3 . This notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[ No. 181 ( r . No. 404 / 26 / 71 -ITCC) .] 

R . D . SAXENA, Dy . Secy . 


( राजस्व और बीमा विभाग ) 


मायकर 


मई दिल्ली, 29 मई, 1971! 


एस०मो० 3 142. - - आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड 
( 44) उपखण्ड (iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री 
एच० एस० नन्दा को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार का राजपत्रित अधिकारी है , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन कर 
वसली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए प्राधिकृत करती है । 

2. अधिसूचना सं० 64 ( फा०सं० 18/ 118/ 89 - पाई०टी०सी०सी० ) तारीख 7-6-1969 
में श्री बी० के० उज्वल को की गई नियुक्ति एतद्द्वारा रद्द की जाती है । 
3. यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 
[सं० 161( फा० स० 404/ 26/ 71 -- आई० टी० सी० सी० ) ] 

पार० डी० सक्सेना , उप सचिव । 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 24th June 1971 
8 . 0 . 3143 . ..-In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause (iii ) of clause 
14 ) of section 2 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , the Central Government 
ereby authorises : 

1. Shri O . P . Daga who is Gazetted Officer of the Central Government to exer 
Ise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 
2. This hotification shall come into force with immediate effect . 

[ No. 200/ F . No. 404/ 26 / 71-ITCC. ] 


Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4403 


( राजस्व और भीमा विभाग ) 

प्रायकर 

नई दिल्ली , 24 जून , 1971 
एस० मो० 3143. - - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 2 के 
खंड ( 44 ) के उपखंड ( iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री 
प्रो० पी० डग को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी है, उक्त अधिनियम के 
अधीन कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए प्राधिकृत करती है । 
___ 2. यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 

[ सं० 200 ( फा० सं० 404/ 26 / 71 - पाई० टी० सी० सी० ) ] 

New Delhi, the 9th July 1971 
S . 0 . 3144. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - clause ( iii ) of Clause 
144 ) of Section 2 of the Income -tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby authorises Shri Lala Tripti Prasad Nandy who is a Gazetted Officer 
of the West Bengal Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer 
under the said Act. 
2. This Notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[ No . 214 ( F. No. 404 / 156 / 70- ITCC ). ] 
नई दिल्ली, 9 जुलाई, 1971 


एस० प्रो . 3144.- - प्रायकर अधिनियम, 1961 ( 196 1 का 43 ) की धारा 2 के खण्ड 
( 44 ) के उपखण्ड (iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री लाला तृप्ति 
प्रसाद नन्दी को , जो पश्चिमी बंगाल सरकार के राज्यपत्रित अधिकारी हैं , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन 
कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिये एतदद्वारा प्राधिकृत करती है । 


2 . यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 

[सं० 214 ( फा ० सं० 404/ 156/ 70 आई . टी ० सी०सी०) ] 


New Delhi, the 14th July 1971 
S . O . 3145 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( iii ) of clause ( 44 ) 
of Section 2 of the Income -tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shri S . N . Chaturvedi who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 

2 . This notification supersedes notification No . 23 ( F , No. 16 / 9 / 68 - ITB) dated 
26th March, 1968 and shall come into force on 15th July, 1971. 

[ No. 220 ( F. No . 404 / 131 / 71 - STCC ) . ] 


नई दिल्ली, 14 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो . 3145. -- प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 2 के 
खण्ड ( 44 ) के उपखण्ड ( ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार श्री एस एन . 
चतुर्वेदी को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राज्यपत्रित अधिकारी हैं , उक्त अधिनियम के अधीन कर 
वसुली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिये प्राधिकृत करती है । 


4404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 (PART II-- 


2. 2 a faggalpeaT 23 ( 4T TO 16 / 9 /66918 at aft) arziu 2€ – – 1968 
# 1 au rů a 150794€, 1971fit tant atiti 

a 0220 (91 0 0 404/ 131/ 71 9750 to 7 oefto ) ] 
S . Q , 3146 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( lil ) of clause 
( 44) of Section 2 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Government 
hereby authorises Shri S . B , Saxena, who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of Tax Recovery Officer under the said Act. 
2 . This notification shall come into force on 26th July , 1971. 

[No . 218 (F . No . 404 / 131 / 71 -ITCC ), 

S. K , LALL , Dy. Secy 


GĦo ato 3148.- - 91947 afufah , 1961 ( 1961 1 43 ) Fit TTT 2 
खण्ड ( 44 ) के उपखण्ड ( iii ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार 
श्री एस० बी० सक्सेना को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी हैं , उक्त अधिनियम 
के अधीन कर वसूली की शक्तियो का प्रयोग करने के लिए प्राधिकृत करती है । 


2 .tafaqaat 26 Jard, 1971 # 7 na att 
[ RTO 218 ( 51 TO 404/ 131/51970 O C Foto ] 

एस० के० लाल , उप सचिव । 
- - - - 

CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 19th June 1971 
8 . 0 . 3147. - In partial modification of Board s Notification No . 87 dated 29th 
May , 1970 and in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
121 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby directs that the Commissioners of Income- tax will not and the Additional 
Commissioners of Income- tax will perform the fuctions specified in the Annexure . 

This notification shall take effect from 21st June, 1971, 


ANNEXURE 
Statutory Technical Functions: 

1 . Revisionary powers under sections 263 and 264 of the Income- tax Act, 
· 1961 (not under Sections 33A and 33B of the Income- tax Act, 1922 ) . 
2 . Jurisdiction proposals and other matters pertaining to Appellate Assistant 

Commissioners . 
3 . All work relating to second appeals before the Income- tax Appellate 

Tribunal, references and writ petitions before High Courts and Sup 
reme Court and any other proceedings before these authorities except 

prosecution proceedings and tax recovery proceedings . 
4 . Matters pertaining to Income- tax Officers ( Judicial) , Authorised Repre 

sentatives and Standing. Counsel. 
8 . All work relating to internal and revenue audit in the Income-tax De 

partment and mattery pertaining to Inspecting Assistant Commis 
gíoners of Income- tax (Audit ) and Chief Auditors . 

[ No . 199 ( F , No. 187/ 8 / 71 -IT (AI) ] . 

B . MADHAVAN , Under Secy . 


Sec . 3 ( li) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971/ SRAVANA 30, 1893 4405 


केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 


प्रायकर 


नई दिल्ली, 19 जन 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3147 -- बोर्ड की अधिसूचना सं० 87 तारीख 28- - 7 ( कि 
उपान्तरण में और आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1861 का 43 ) की धारा 121 की धारा 
( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष -क र बोर्ड एतद्द्वारा निदेश 
देता है कि उपाबन्ध में विनिर्दिष्ट कृत्यों का पालन प्राय -कर प्रायक्त नही करेंगे किन्तु 
अपर आय - कर पायुक्त करेंगे । 
यह अधिसूचना 21- 6 - 71 से प्रभावी होगी । 

उपाबन्ध 

कानूनी तकनीकी कृत्य 
1. प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1961 की धारा 263 और 264 के अधीन ( पार कर 
अधिनियम , 1922 की धारा 3 ( फ और 35 ख अधीन नहीं ) पुनरीक्षण शक्तियां । 

2. अधिकारिता सम्बन्धी प्रस्थापनाएं और सहायक प्रायुरत ( अपल ) रे स. व.f . त 
अन्य मामले । 

3. आय-क र अधिक रण ( अपील ) के समक्ष द्वितीय प्रर्पलों से सरद धित सभी कार्य , 
उच्चन्यायालयों और उच्चतम न्यायालय से समक्ष निर्देश अंर हिटिशन थ इन प्राधि 
कारियों के समक्ष, अभियोजन कार्यवाहियों और कर वसूली कार्यवाहियों के सिदए, प्राय 
कार्यवाहियां । 

4. आयकर अधिकारी ( न्यायिक ) , प्राधिकृत प्रतिनिधियं अ . स्थ ।काल 
से सम्बन्धित मामले । 

5 . आयकर विभाग में प्रान्तरिक र राजस्व संपरीक्षा के सम्बन्ध में सभी कार्य 
पौर प्रायक र निरक्ष स ह र वे प्राय (सारं क्ष ) श्रर मर सप र ६. को से सम्बधित मामले । 

[ सं० 199 ( फा० नं0 187 / 8/ 71 - श्राई ० टी० ( एक प्राई ) ] 


बी० माधवन , अवर सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 
( Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 5th July 1971 
8 . 0 , 8148 . — The following draft of certain amendments to the Bristles Grading 
and Marking Rules , 1969, which the Central Government propose to make in 
exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) , is published as required by the 
said section for the information of the persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the draft would be taken into consideration on or 
after the 20th August, 1971 . 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be taken into considera 
tion by the Central Government. 


2106 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 1893 [ PART II 


Draft Amendments 
1. ( 1) These rules may be called the Bristles Grading and Marking (Amend 
ment ) Rules, 1971. 

( 2 ) They shall come into force at once . 

2 . In the foot notes to Schedules I to IV of the Bristles Grading and Marking 
rules, 1969 (hereinafter called the said rules, ) -- 

( a ) in item ( ii ), for the figures and letters " 57 mm ", the figures and 

____ letters " 64 mm " shall be substituted : 
( b ) in item (lit) for the words, figures and letters " for grade 51 mm 

the words, figures and letters " for grades 57 mm and 51 mm " shall 

be substituted . 
3 . In the foot notes to Schedules I to VI of the said rules, the following item 
. shall be added. namely : - - 
" (V ) The following tolorance limits in respect of types shall be 

permitted : 


Grade designation 


Maximum percentage of bristles of 
the next lower type according to 

stiffness to be tolerated 


114 mm (4 3 ") and above, 
83 mm (31") and upto and including 198 mm (4 3") 
- 44 mm (1 # ") and upto and including 76 mm (3"). 


. 


4 . In Schedule X of the said rules, in item 3 , 
( a ) in sub -item (ii ) , for the expression " grade designations 95 mm to 

57 mm ( 31 " to 21 " ) " , the expression " grade designations 95 mm to 

64 mm ( 31 " to 24" ) " shall be substituted : 
( b ) in sub - item ( iii ) , for the expression " for grades 51 mm . and 44 mm . 

( 2 " and 14 " ) " , the expression “ tor grades 57 mm and 51 mm 

( 24 " and 2 ") " shall be substituted ; 
(c ) after sub - item ( ili ), the following sub - item shall be added , namely : 
" ( IV ) for grade 44 mm ( 18 " ) a minimum of 65 per cent of bristles of 

the specified grade designation length (called tops ) , the balance 
being made up of the next lower grade lengths and unavoidables ." 

[ No . F . 8- 1/ 87 - C & M . ] 
खाध कृषि, सामुदायिक तथा सहकारिता मंत्रालय 

___ ( कृषि विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 5 जुलाई, 1971 
एस० प्रो० 3148. - कड़े बाल श्रेणीकरण और चिह्न नियम , 1969 में कतिपय संशोधन 
का निम्नलिखित प्रारूप जिसे केन्द्रीय सरकार , कृषि उपज ( श्रेणीकरण और चिह्न ) अधिनियम , 
1937 ( 1937 का 1 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , बनाने की 
प्रस्थापना करती है , उक्त धारा की अपेक्षानुसार उन सभी व्यक्तियों की जानकारी के लिये प्रकाशित 
किया जाता है जिनका उनसे प्रभावित होना सम्भाव्य है और एतद्द्वारा सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्त 
प्रारूप पर 20 - 8 - 1971 को या उसके पश्चात् विचार किया जायेगा । 


किसी व्यक्ति के उक्त प्रारूप के बाबत इस प्रकार निर्दिष्ट तारीख से पूर्व जो भी आक्षेप 
या सुझाव प्राप्त होगे , उन पर केन्द्रीय सरकार विचार करेगी । 


SEC. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, : 893 4407 


___ संशोधन का प्रारूप 
1. ( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम कड़े बाल श्रेणीकरश और चिह्नन (संशोधन ) नियम, 1971 

होगा । 
( 2 ) ये तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होंगे । 

2. कड़े बाल श्रेणीकरण और चिन्हनन नियम , 1969 (जिन्हें इसमें इसके पश्चात् उक्त 
नियम कहा गया है ,) की 1 से 4 तक की अनुसूचियों के पाद टिप्पणों में -- 
( क ) मद ( । ) में , " 57 मि . मी . " अंकों तथा प्रक्षरों के स्थान पर " 64 मि . मी . " 

___ अंक तथा प्रक्षर प्रतिस्थापित किये जायेंगे । 
( ख ) मद ( 1 ) में , " 51 मि . मी . श्रेणी के लिये " शब्द , अंक एवं प्रक्षरों के स्थान 

पर " 57 मि० मी० और 51 मि० मी० श्रेणियों के लिये " शब्द , अंक और अक्षर 

प्रतिस्थापित किये जायेगे । 
3. उक्त नियनों की 1 चे 6 तक की अनुसूचियों के पाद टिप्पणयों में निम्नलिखित मदः 
जोड़ा जायेगा, अर्थात् : - - 

( 4 ) किस्मों के सम्बन्ध में निम्नलिखित सहायता अनुज्ञेय होगी : 


श्रेणी अभिधान 


सहा कड़ेपन के अनुसार 
निकटतम नीची 
श्रेणी के कड़े बालों 
का अधिक म 

प्रतिशत 


114 मि० मो० ( 41") और उससे अधिक 


. 


. 


35 


83 मि० मी० ( 31 " ) और उस तक और जिसमें 108मि० मी० 
____ 42 " भी सम्मिलित है । . . . । 
44मि० मी० ( 11 " ) और उस तक और जिसमें 76 मि० मी० 

( 3 " ) भी सम्मिलित हैं . . . . 


4. उचत नियमो की अनुसूची 10 में , मद 3 में - - 
( क ) उप मद ( ।) में , " श्रेणी अभिधानों 95 मि० मी० से 57 मि० मी० 

( 32 " से 28 ") पद के स्थान पर “ श्रेणी अभिधान 95मि० मी० से 64 

मि० मी० ( 32 " से 4 ") पद प्रतिस्थापित किया जायेगा । 
( ब ) उप मद ( ॥ ) में " श्रेणियों 51 मि० मी० प्रौर 44 मि० मी० ( 2" और 

3 ) के लिये , “ पद के स्थान पर " श्रेणियों 57 मी० मी० और 51 मि . मी 
( 21 " और 2 " ) के लिये , " पद प्रतिस्थापित किया जायेगा । 


4408 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 [ Part II 


(T ) 39 -** ( ii) ara fraffat 39- 42 ori FANTOTT, wafT : 

" ( iv ) 44 foro ( 1 314 " ) STUTT # fe fafifact soft Of 
लम्बाई के कड़े बालों का ( जिसे सिरे कहा गया है ) न्यूनतम 65 प्रतिशत अवशिष्ट 
निकटतम निम्नतर श्रेणी की लम्बाइयों के और अपरिहार्य से मिलकर पूरा किया जायेगा । 


[RO 8 – 1/ 67 -pto que THO ] 


New Delhi, the 31st July 1971 


S . O . 3149 . - The following draft rules , which the Central Government propose to 
make, in exercise of tie powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Produce 
(Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937 ) , are published as required by the said 
section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
10th September , 1971 , 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified , will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 
The Safron Grading and Marking Rules, 1971 . 
1 . Short title and application . - ( 1 ) These rules may be called 
Grading and Marking Rules, 1971 ; 


the Saffron 


2 . Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 
( a ) Agricultural Marketing Adviser means the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser to the Government of India ; 
(b ) Schedule means a Schedule appended to these rules, 


3 . Grade designations.- - The Grade designations to indicate the quality of 
saffron shall be as set out in column 2 of Schedule I . 

4 . Definition of quality . The quality of safforn indicated by the respective 
grade designations shall be as set out against each grade designation in columns 
- 5 to 8 of Schedule I, 


5 . Grade designation marks. — The Grade designation mark shall consist of 
( ther : 
( i) a design incorporating the number of the Certificate of Authorisation , 

the word Agmark and the grade approved by the Agricultural Mark 

eting Adviser, or 
( ii ) a label specifying the grade approved by the Agricultural Marketing 

Adviser and bearing the design ( consisting of an outline map of India 

with the word Agmark and the figure of the rising sun with the 
words " Produce of India " and " ATGII ETTE " resembling the one as 

set out in Schedule II. 
6 . Method of marking ( 1 ) The grade designation mark shall be securely 
affixed to or printed on each container in a manner approved by the Agricultural 
Marketing Adviser. 

( 2 ) In addition to the above, the following particulars shall also be clearly and 
indelibly marked on each container , namely : 

( a ) Date of packing in code or plain letters; 
(b ) Crop year ; and 
( c ) Net weight. 


Sec . 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30, 1893 4409 


( 3 ) An authorised packer may , after obtaining the prior approval of the Agri 
cultural Marketing Adviser , mark his private trade mark on a container , in a man 
ner approved by the said officer, provided that the private trade mark does not 
represent a quality or grade of saffron different from that indicated by the grade 
designation mark affixed to the container in accordance with these ruleg , 


7 . Method of packing . – ( 1 ) Saffron shall be packed in only new and clean ting, 
glass or plastic containers, polythene bags, or any other suitable container . 

( 2 ) The container shall be securely closed and sealed in a manner approved 
by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser . 

( 3) Each container shall contain saffron of one grade designation only . 

8 . Speclal conditions of authorisation . In addition to the conditions specified in 
rule 4 of the General Grading and Marking Rules, 1937, the following special con 
ditions shall be observed by packers to the satisfaction of the Agricultural Market 
Ing Adviser , namely : 
( 1 ) An authorised packer shall make such arrangements for testing from ag 

the Agricultural Marketing Adviser may specify by general or special 


(2) An der from time to tkcting Adviser arrangem 


( 2 ) An authorised packer shall provide such facilities to the Inspecting 

Officer duly authorised by the Agricultural Marketing Adviser in this 
behalf as may be necessary for them to discharge their duties under 
these rules . 


SCHEDLE I 
( Ser rules 3 and 4 ) 


Grade designaions and deformitions of quality of saffron produced in India 


SI. 


General Characteristics 


Grade 
design ation 


N . 


Colour 


Ash insol Aqueous Total 

in extract Nitrogen 
HCL % % by % by 
by weight weight weight, 

maximum maximum 
maximum 


a 


Special characteristics 

Matter Total 

- Volatile ash % 
Floral Foreign at 103 . by 
waste matter , by weight, 
content, percent weight, maximum 
per cent, maximum maximum 
maximum 

5 6 7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


14 


- 


8 .o * 


1.5 


550* 


2 


I Special 
2 Standard 


Deep red 
Light reddish to bri 

ght red 


I 


Saffron shall : 
( a ) be the dried full cut 

or broken stigmas of 
the plant botanically 
KOOFD 25 Crocus 
Sativus , Linnaeus; (b ) 
have the charcteristic 
strong , vom atis, 

pleasant and 
slightly iodinated 
smell with bitter and 
slightly pungent taste 
and be free from any 
foreign taste of smell , 
specially the musty smelf 

or taste; 
(c ) be free from living 

insects , and moulds , 
and shall be practically 
free from derd insects , 
insect fragments and 
Todent contamination 
visible to the naked eye 
( corrected , if necessary , 
for abnormal paijoo ) ! 


4410THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,189;[PartII 


With such magnum 
29 may be necessary in 
any particular case , 

and 
(d ) not contain any 

added foreign colour 
ing matter . 


Sec.3(ii))THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;AUGUST21,1971/SRAVANA30,18934411 


À412 THE GAZETTĘ OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1993 [ PART 11 


. 


. . . 


Definitions.- - 1. Floral Waste , Yellow Alaments, pollens , stamens, part of ovary and 

other parts of the flower of Crocus sativus, Linnaeus . 
2 . Foreign matter. - Sand, earth , dust, lcal, stem , chaff and other vege 

table matter. 
NOTE : — * On dry basis , i. e., moisture and volatile matter free basis as calculated 

from Column 6 . 
Sulphuric acid di phenyl amino test shall be + tive . Floral waste content 

shall be determined by standard niethod , 


SCHEDULE II 


( See rule 5 ) 
Design for the grade designation mark . 


11 


AGMARK 


Doo 


CE O 


भारतीय उत्पाद 
இந்தியப்பொருள் 
2,965wucose 


HOROD 


NA 


NOTE . — The Tamil and Telugu words will not occur in the labels in case where com 

modities are graded for the purpose of export. 


[No. F . 8 - 2 / 68- C & M . ] 
K . RAJAN , Under Secy 


SEC. 3(ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30, 18931 113 


नई दिल्ली , 31 जुलाई, 1971 


का0 प्रा0 3149. निम्नलिखित प्रारूप नियम जिन्हें केन्द्रीय सरकार कृषि उत्पाद 
( श्रेणीकरण और चिल्लन ) अधिनियम, 1937 (1937 का 1 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए बनाने की प्रस्थापना करती है, उक्त धारा की अपेक्षानुसार उन सभी व्यक्तियों 
की सूचना के लिए प्रकाशित करती है जिनका तद्नुसार प्रभावित होना संभाव्य है और एतद् 
द्वारा सूचना दी जाती है कि उक्त प्रारूप पर 10 - 9- 1971 को या उसके पश्चात् विचार किया 
जाएगा । 


उक्त प्रारूप की बाबत ऐसी विनिर्दिष्ट तारीख से पूर्व किसी व्यक्ति से जो आक्षेप 
या सुझाव प्राप्त होंगे उन पर केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा विचार किया जाएगा । 


प्रारूप नियम 


केशर श्रेणीकरण और चिह्नम नियम, 1971 


1 . संक्षिप्त नाम और लागू होना : 

( 1 ) इन नियमों का नाम केशर श्रेणीकरण और चिहन नियम 1971 होगा । 
( 2 ) ये भारत में उत्पादित केशर ( क्रोकस सटाइक्स लिन्नायम ) पर लागू होंगे । 


2 . परिभाषा : - - इन नियमों में जब तक कि संदर्भ से अन्यथा अपेक्षित न हो ; 


( क ) “ कृषि विपणन सलाहकार " से , भारत सरकार का कृषि विपणन सलाहकार 

अभिप्रेत है । 


( ख ) अनुसूची से इन नियमों से संलग्न अनुसूची अभिप्रेत है । 


3 . श्रेणी अभिधान : - - केशर की क्वालिटी को उपशित करने वाला श्रेणी अभिधान 
ऐसा होगा जैसा कि अनुसूची 1 के स्तम्भ 2 में उपवर्णित है । 


4 . पवालिटी की परिभाषा : - - विभिन्न श्रेणी अभिदानों द्वारा उपशित केशर की 
पवालिटी वह होगी जो अनुसूची 1 के स्तम्भ 3 से 6 में प्रत्येक श्रेणी अभिधान के सामने 
उपणिस है । 


5 . श्रेणी अभिधान चिह्न :-- श्रेणी अभिधान चिल -- या तो 
(1 ) एफ ऐसे डिजाइन का होगा जिसमें प्राधिकार प्रमाप पत्र की संख्या, “ एगमार्क " 

शब्द और कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित श्रेणी दी गई हो , या 


441A THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: AUGUST 21 , 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 803 [ PART II 


(ii ) एक ऐसे लेवल का होगा जिसमें कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित 

श्रेणी विनिर्दिष्ट की गई हो और जिस पर ऐसा डिजाइन (जिसमें भारत के 
मान चित्र का रेखांक ‘ एगमार्क शब्द और उगते हुए सूर्य का चित्र " Produce 
of India और भारतीय उत्पाद शब्दों के सहित हों ) हो , जो अनुसूची 
2 से उपणित डिजाइन से मिलता जुलता हो । 


6 . चिह्न की पति : 
(i ) श्रेणी अभिधान चिह्न कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित रीति से 

अच्छी तरह से चिपका होगा या प्रत्येक प्राधान पान पर मुद्रित होगा । 
( ii ) उपर्युका के अतिरिक्त , निम्नलिखित विशिष्टियां भी स्पष्ट और अमिट 

रूप से प्रत्येक प्राधान पात्र पर चिह्नित की जाएगी, अर्थात् : - - 
( क ) पैकिंग की तारीख - -सांकेतिक या साधारण अक्षरों में 
( ख ) फसल का वर्ष; और 
( ग ) शुद्ध भार 
( i ) प्राधिकृत पैफर कृषि विपणन सलाहकार से पूर्व अनमोदन प्राप्त करने के 

पश्चात् उक्त अधिकारी द्वारा अनुमोदित रीति के अनुसार प्राधान पात्र 
पर अपना निजी व्यापार चिह्न अंकित कर सकेगा परन्तु यह तब जबकि 
निजी व्यापार चिह्न इन नियमों के अनुसार प्राधान पात्र पर लगाये गए 
श्रेणी अभिधान चिह्न द्वारा उपदर्शित केशर की क्वालिटी या श्रेणी से 
भिन्न क्वालिटी या श्रेणी को व्यक्त न करता हो । 


7 . पैकिग को पति : -- 
( 1 ) केशर को केवल नये और स्वच्छ डिब्बों में , शीश या प्लास्टिक के आधान पात्रों 

में , पौलीथीन के थैलों में या अन्य यथोचित आधान पात्रों में पेक किया जाएगा । 
( 2 ) प्राधान पान कृषि विपणन सलाहकार द्वारा अनुमोदित रीति से मजबूती से बन्द 

और मुद्राबन्द किए जाएंगे । 
( 3 ) प्रत्येक प्राधान पान में केवल एक ही श्रेणी अभिधान की केशर होगी : 


8 . प्राधिकरण की विशेष शत : - -सामान्य श्रेणीकरण और चिल्लन नियम 1937 के 
नियम 4 में विनिर्दिष्ट शर्तों के अतिरिक्स पैकर को निम्नलिखित विशेष शों का पालन कृषि 
पिपणन सलाहकार के समाधान प्रद रूप से करना होगा अर्थात् : - - 
( 1 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर केशर का परीक्षण करने के ऐसे प्रबन्ध फरेगा जैसाकि कृषि विपणन 

सलाहकार समय - समय पर सामान्य या विशेष प्रादेश द्वारा विनिर्दिष्ट करें । 


Sec. 3( ji ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21, 1971/ SKAVANA 30, 1893 4415 


( 2 ) प्राधिकृत पैकर , कृषि विपणन सलाहार द्वारा इस नियमित सम्यक् रूप से प्राधि 

कृत निरीक्षण अधिकारियों को ऐसी सुविधाएं प्रदान करेगा , जैसा कि इन नियमों 
के अधीन उनके अपने कर्तव्यों के निर्वहन के लिए प्रावश्यक हों । 


4416 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : AUGUST 21 , 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 


PART II - 


AD . . 


अनुसूची 

(नियम 3 और 
भारत में उत्पादित केशर का श्रेणी अभिधान और क्वालिटी 


विशेष लक्षण 


क्रम संख्या अंगी 

अभिधान 


रंग 


पुष्प क्षय 
अन्तवस्तु 
अधिकतम / 
प्रतिशत 


विजातीय 
पदार्थ प्रति 
शत प्रधिकम 


103• से पर 
धाष्पशील भार 
के आधार पर 
प्रतिशत अधिक 
तम । 


125 
1 विशेष गहरा लाल 

. 


- - - - - - 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - - - - -- - -- - - - 

0 . 5 


गहरा लाल 


5 


2 मानक 


15 


1 . 0 


हल्के रक्ताभ से 
चमकीला लाल 


SEc. 3( 1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 /SRAVANA 30 , 1893 4417 


4 देखिए ) 
की परिभाषायें 


भार के प्राधार 
पर कुल भस्म 
प्रतिशत अधिक 
तम 


साधारण लक्षण 


भार के भार के भार के 
अाधार पर आधार पर आधार पर 

Hc1 में जलीय निष्कर्ष फूल 
अविलेय भस्म प्रतिशत नाइट्रोजन 
प्रतिशत अधिकतम अधिकतम 
अधिकतम 

प्रतिशत 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


8 


9 


10 


-- - - - 


- -- -- - - - 


- - - 


- - - - -- - 


___ 8. 0* 


1 . 5* 


55 . 0 * 


2 * 


केशर - - 
( क ) वनस्पति शास्त्र में क्रोकस 
सटाइवस लिनायस नाम से 
ज्ञात पौधे के सूखे काटे गये 
या टुकड़े किये गए वृन्त 
होंगे । . 
( ख ) तिक्त और हल्के तीखे 

स्वाद सहित लक्षण सूचक 
तीक्षण वासिक मधुर हल्की 
प्रायोडीन की गंध की 
होगी और विजातीय स्वाद 
या गंध-विशेष रूप से फफंदी 
गंध या स्वाद से मुक्त होगी । 
( ग ) जीवित कीटों और फफंद 
से रहित होगी और नंगी 
आग्न से दिखाई पड़ने वाले 
( असाधारण दृष्टि के लिए 
यदि आवश्यक हो तो ठीक 
करके ) ऐसे प्रवर्धन सहित 
( जैसा किसी मामले विशेष 
में आवश्यक हो ) व्यवहारिक 
रूप से मत कीटों , कीट शरीर 
भागों और कृन्तक प्राणियों के 
संदूषण से मुक्त होगी । 
( घ ) कोई विजातीय रंजक 
पदार्थ मिला हुआ न हो । 


4418 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; AUGUST 21, 1971 / SRAVANA 30 , 1893 ( PART 11 


परिभाषायें : -- 1. पुष्प क्षय : - - क्रोकस सटाइनस लिन्नायस पुष्प के पीले सन्तु पराग पुंकेशर 

अण्डाशय का भाग और अन्य भाग । 
2. विजातीय पदार्थ :- - रेत , मिट्टी, धूल, पत्ती , डण्ठल , भूसा और अन्य 

वनस्पति पदार्थ । 
नोट :- - * मुष्क आधार पर नमी और वाष्पशील पदार्थ युक्त स्तम्भ 6 में गणना के अनुसार 

सलफ्यूरिक ऐसिड डाई-फेनिल एमीन परीक्षण- सकारात्मक होगा । 
पुष्प क्षय अन्तवस्तु मानक विधि द्वारा अवधारित की जाएगी । 


राम । 


अनुसूची - 2 

(नियम 5 देखिये ) 
श्रेणी अभिधान चिह्न का डिजाइन 


AGMARK 


भारतीय उत्पाठ 

BASWuGunGm 
| 56fou 


PON 


टिप्पणी : - - उस दशा में जहाँ वस्तुओं का निर्यात के प्रयोजन के लिए श्रेणीकरण किया गया है , 
लेवलों पर तमिल और तेलगू शब्द नहीं होंगे । 

[ सं० 8 - 2/ 68 - भूमि प्रशासन ] 
कु० राजन् , अवर सचिष । 


