REGISTERED No. D. 222 





PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


EnMa 


No. 6] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1959/MAGHA 18, 1880 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upLo the 26 th January, 1959 :— 


Issue 

No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


12 . 


13 . 


No. 8 -ITC(PN)/ 59 , dated 23 rd Janu- Ministry of Commerce and Industry, 
ary, 1959 . 


Inmort of equipment for Cement and Jute 
Industries under Development Loan Fund. 


No. 3 -Pres,/ 59 , dated 26 th January, Office of the Secretary to the President. The President’s Awards 
1959 . 


Copies of the Gazettes extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be mbmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date o£. Issue of 
theae Gazettes. 


CONTENTS 


Pages 

Part I — 3 aorto« 1 . — Notifications ralattnt: to 

Non-Siatutory Rules, Regulations ano ji lers 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries j 

of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry o( Defence) and 
by the Supreme Court . 57 ! 

Pakt I — Sboiion a, — Notifications regarditv 

Appointments, Piv.'.w.ion.-,, Leave, etc. 

of Government Office t* issued > ; 

the Ministries of the Government ji 
India (other thin the Yfinistry of 


Dcfencej and by the Supreme Court . . 67 

PART I — SaciTtON 5, — Notifications relating 
to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations. 

Orders and Resolutions, issued >}, th '• 

Ministry of Defence ..... 17 

PART I-— SecttKin A. — Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc, 

of Officers, issued by the Ministry of 

Defence ■ ■ ... 29 

PART II— Seotion I. — Acts, Ordinances rud 

Regulations ...... Nil 

Part II — Sigtkjn a. — Bills aud Reports ol 

Select Committees on Bills NO 


PART II — Section 3. — Sna-SswmoR (i) — General 
Statutory Rules (including order?, bye-laws 
etc., of a general character) issued by the 
Ministries of the Government of India (01 he.- 
than the Ministry of Defence) and by Centra) 

Authorities (other than the Administrations 
of Union Territories) . . 21 5 

PaRT II — Satmox 3 — Sou-Section (ii). — Statutory 
Orders and notifications issued by the Minis- 
triea of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations of 
Union Territories) 329 


Pages 


?»*r Ii--Sjt iftou 4 . -"Statutory Rules and 

Orders notified by the Ministry of Defence 

17 

P«.nr III — Sbci-ion .'.—Notifications issued by 
the Auditin' General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Courts, sir-d the Attached and Subordinate 
Offices of th“ Govern mem of India 
(Psibiu/uJ at .ii'ula ) • . . . . 

149 

Part in — S ection 3 , — Notifications and Notices 
issued by tile Patent Office, Calcutta 
{Published at Simla) , 

33 

Par. Ill — S uction 3. — Notifications Issued 

by or under the authority of Chic/ 
Commissioners (Published at .Simla) • 

67 

Part III— Sxotion 4 , — Miscellaneous Noti- 

fications including notifications, orders, adver- 
tisements and notices issued by .Statutory 
Bodies (Published at Simla) . , 

29 

Pabt IV— Advertisements and Notices py 

Private individuals and Private bodies. 

(Published at Simla) , . . , 

23 

Soppirmemt No. 5 — 


Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, small- 
pox, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during week ending 10th January, 1959. 

65 

Births and deaths from principal diseases in 
towns with a population of 30,000 and 

Over in India during week ending 10th 

January, 1959. 

68 

Cotton Press Return for weeks ending 3rd, 10th, 

17th, 24th, and 3i9t October, 1958. 

75 


( 57 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 7, 1959/MAGHA 18, 1880 


[Part I— Seq. 1 


PART I— Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries ol the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 
RESOLUTION 


New Delhi, Lhc SO th January 1959 

No. F-22(5)-NS/58.— Smt. A. K. Verma, t-B, Judges Court 
Road, Calcutta is nominated a Member of the West Bengal 
State Advisory Board, Women’s Savings Campaign set up in 
this Department's Resolution No. F.8(14)-NS/56, dated the 
29th October, 1956, 

2. Smt. Meera Talukdar and Smt, Poornima Pakvasa, Mem- 
ben of the West Bengal and Bombay State Advisory Boards 
respectively of the Women's Savings Campaign, set up under 
the Resolution referred to above, have resigned. 

R. SARAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE A INDUSTRY 
(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 
NOTICE 


Nelv Delhi, the 30 Ih January 1 959 

No. CCI/SPE/CEIX/2/S9.— It is hereby notified, that in 
■exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
(Control) Order, 1955, t'he Government of India, in the Minis- 
try of Commerce & Industry propose to cancel Licence No, 
R997614/57/RC/CCI/HQ dated the 21st September, 1958 
valued at Ra. 20270/- for the import of the following:— 

Item Description Class Quantity 

No. 

1. Relay line Single element II/ 5 2 10 Nos. 

vane style, “B. 4” 2 posi- (Ten Numbers.) 

tkra with 4 F and 4 B, 

dependent contacts to 
operate on 50 Cycles to 
W.B. S. S. Coy & s Cat. 

No. 8/3A/4 or similar. 

2. Round strand steel Wire I/29 35oo ft. (Three 

Rope Special extra flexi- thousand five 

blc for cranes extra sped- hundred feet 

al improved plough steel only.) 

tensile strength 115/125 
tons per sq. inch basic 
grade 4" crif. 6/61 court 
nominal breaking load 
55.6 tons to IRS Spec. 

No. H-13-54. 


from the Soft Currency Area except South Africa, granted by 
the Chief Controller of Imports Sc Exports, New Delhi, to 
Messrs, Continental Engineering & Supply Co., Opposite kamla 
Market, Asaf Ali Road. New Delhi, unless sufficient cause 
against this is furnished to the Chief Controller of Imports 
Sc Exports, New Delhi within ten days of the date of issue of 
this notice, by the said Messrs. Continental Engineering and 
Supply Co., Opposite Kamla Barker, Asal Ali Road, New Delhi, 
or any Bank, or any other party, who may he interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above, Messrs. Continental 
Engineering Sc Supply Co., Opposite Kamla Market, Asaf Ali 
Road, New Delhi, or any Bank, or any other Party, who may 
be interested in the said licence No. R99/6I 1/57/RC/CCI/HQ 
dated 21st September. 1958 are hereby directed not to enter 
into any commitments against the said licence and return 
it immediately to the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports, 
New Delhi. 


CORRIGENDUM 

.Yen' Delhi, the 28 th January 1959 

No. I (33)-TF,X(A)/58.— In the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry Resolution No. I (S3)-TF,\(A)/58, dated the 14th 
January, 1959. published at page 18 of the Gazette of India, 
Part 1, Sertion 1 dated the 24th January, 1959, 

for 

"18. Shri C, H, Satya" 

Read 

"18. Sliri Chandulal B. Satla”. 

V. V. NENE, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 
(Department of Agriculture) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1959 
\ 

No. 7-41/58-DD.— For para 2(3) of this Ministry Resolution 
No. 27-71 /56-LS. dated the 17th August, 1956. as amended by 
this Ministry’s Corrigendum No, 27-/4/56-LS, dated the 22nd 
December. 1958. please read "Sliri K. Sachidanandam, Deputy 
Financial Adviser, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Depart- 
ment of Agriculture) and delete the words "or his representa- 
tive". 

Ordered that a copy of this corrigendum he communicated 
to the Government of U.P., Punjab and Delhi State, all 
Ministries oF the Government of India, the Deputy Financial 
Adviser, Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of 
Agiiculture), Cabinet Seiirtariat, Prime Minister's Sccreta- 
liat, Lhe Private and Military Secretaries to the President, 
Planning Commission, the Comptroller and Auditor General 
of India, the Aiiounlanl General, CenLral Revenues, the Pay 
fc Accounts Officer, Ministry of Food & Agriculture, the 
Indian Council of Agricultural Research, the Director Gene- 
ral of Health Services, the Chief Engineer, C.P.WD., Lok 
Sahha and Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 

Ordered also that the Corrigendum he published in the 
Gazette of India for general information. 

D. RAMIAH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 
RESOLUTION. 

New Delhi, the 28 th January 1959 

No. F.34-12/57-B.3, — In partial modification of Ministry of 
Education Resolution No. F.34-12/57-B.5, dated the 19th May* 
1958. it has been resolved that Dr. (Mrs.) Phulrenu Guha will 
he deemed to have been appointed as a regular Member of 
the National Committee On Women’s Education. 

Order 

Ordered dial litc. Resolution he communicated to all the 
Ministries of Lhe Government of India, All the State Govern- 
ments. Planning Commission, Cabinet Secretariat, Secretary, 
Central Advisory Board of Education, Secretary. All India 
Council for Secondary Education, Secretary, All India Coun- 
cil foi Elementary Education. Secretary, CenLral Social Welfare 
Hoaid, Secretary, University Granls Commission. Comptroller 
and Auditor Genoa) of India and Secretary, Department of 
l’ai liamcntary AHuiis (with 6 spate copies). 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information. 


S. N. B1LGRAMI, Chief Controller. 


K. G. SAIYIDAIN, Secy. 



Pa«t 1— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : FEBRUARY 7, 1959/MAGHA 18, 1880 


59 - 


MEVISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1959 

N«. F.12-51/58.C.2.— The Government o£ India in Ihe Mlnis- 
tiy of Scientific Rcscaich anti Cultural Allairs have accepted 
the resignation ot Prof. J. P. Niyogi of the Caltuua XTntvcr- 
dly from the Governing Council of the National Library, 
Calcutta, with effect from 13th October 1958. Prof. Niharran- 
jjau Ray, M.P. is nominated as the representative of the Cal- 
cutta University on the Governing Council with eft'ett from 
the same date vice Pi of. Niyogi for the remaining term of 
Lt'ne piesent Council. 

V. P. AGNIHOTRI, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

,Ye a’ Delhi, the 2nd February 1959 

No. .3(1 l)/58-SRI, — The following amendment may he made 
in the late Ministry of Natural Resource ft Scientific Research 
Notification No. 2R(4)/56-SRI, dated the 3rd April, 1956:— 

Under the heading ‘'Governing Body’’ for the Existing 
.entry at Serial No. 8 Substitute— 


"Financial Adviser to the Council of Scientific and Indus- 
trial Research and the Ministry of Scientific Research and 
•Cultural Affaiis. 

K. P. RABINDRANATFIAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Transport) 

(Transport living) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23 rd January 1959 
No, 6-MT(33)/58.— In the Government of India, Ministry of 
Transport & Communications, Department of Transport, 
(Transport Wing), Resolution No, 0-MT(33)/58 piiblitfnetl on 
page 328 of the Gazette of India Part I— Section 1 dated the 
HOtli December 1958, the following amendments may be 
made:— r , 

(i) For the words in Col. 2, against entry No. 13 “Rcprc- 

setative of the Bombay Port Trust” read "Repre- 
sentative of the Madras Tort Trust". 

(ii) For the words in Col. 1, against entry No. 16 
"Deputy Conservator” read “Harbour Master 8c Dred- 
ger Superintendent". 

J, V, DASS, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 30th January 1959 

No. 21/5/58-FC.— The Government of India have decided 
that in the Resolution of the Ministry of Information and 
Broadcasting No. 21/5/58-FC, dated the 8th December, 1958, 
in Rule 12(i), after the word “Gujrati” the word “Sindhi" 
shall be inserted. 

Ordered that the Resolution be published In the Gazette 
of India for general information. 

D. R. KHANNA, Under Secy, 




REGISTERED No. D. 222 


%\it dazette 






PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


labia 


No. 7] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


Nona 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 6lh February, 1959:— 


Issue No. and date Issued by Subject 

No. 


14 No. l/ETC(PN)/59. dated 5th 1'ebru- Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Export of monkeys for medical research ctr -■ 
ary, 1959. procedure for regulating. 


15 No. 9-ITC(PNJ/59, dated 6lh Febru- 
ary, 1959. 


Do. 


Import for licences issued to Established Ex- 
porters under the Export Promotion 
Scheme— Bond condition on—. 


Copies of the Gazettes extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publications, 
CWU Lines. Delhi. Indent* should be submitted so a* to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of Issue of 
these Gazettes. 


CONTENTS 


tABl I — Sscrrioa i.— Notifications relating to 

Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders 
and Resolutions issued by the Ministries 
of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence) and 
by the Supreme GourtJ • • • 

p ABT I Section a.— Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
„f Government Officers issued by 
the Ministries of the Government of 
India (other than the Ministry of 
Defence) and by the Supreme Court . . 


Pa*T I— Section 3.— Notifications relating 
to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations, 

Orden and Resolutions, issued by the 
Ministry of Defence ..... 
Pert I — Section 4. — Notifications regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, etc. 
of Offlcen, issued by the Ministry of 

Defence 

pert II— Suction i.— Acts, Ordinances and 
Regulations ■ 

Part II— SacrrioN a.— Bills and Reports of 
Select Committees on Bill* 

Pert II — Srotion 3. — Sot-Section (i)— General 
Statutory Rules (including ordors, bye-law* 
etc., of a general character) issued by tile 
Ministries of the Government of Indi* (other 
•ban the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administrations 
of Union Territories) • 

Part II — Saonow 3 — Sua-Sacnos (II).— Statutory 
order* and notifications issued M T‘~ 

tries of the Government of India (other than 
the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration* ot 
Union Territories) ‘ ’ 


Pages 


61 

81 

Nil 

35 

Nil 

Nil 


269 

383 


Part II— SionoH a.— Statutory Rules and 

Orders notified Dy the Ministry of Defence j ■ 

Pant III — Section i. — N otifications issued by 
the Auditor General, Union Public Service 
Commission, Railway Administration, High 
Courts, and the Attached and Subordinate 
Offices of the Government of India 

{Published at Sir,, I a) • . i . . • 

Past III — Section a. — Notifications and Notice, 
issued by the Patent Office, Calcutta 
{Published at Simla) , . , 

Part III — Section a. — Notifications Issued 

by or under the authority of Chief 

dommissioners ( Published at Simla) • • 

Part III — Section 4. — Miscellaneous Noti- 
fications including notifications, orders, adver- 
tisements and notice* issued by Statutory 
Bodies ( Published at Simla) , 

Part IV — Advertisements and Noticei by 

Private individuals and Private bodies. 
[Published at Simla) 


Supplement No. 6 — 

Reported attacks and deaths from cholera, small- 
pox. plague and typhus in districts in India 
during week ending 17th January, 1959. 

Births and death, horn principal disease. In 
town, with s population of 30,000 and 
over in India during week ending 17th 
January, 1959. 


Pages 

2 ] 


185 


39 


163 


31 


27 


81 


84 


( 61 ) 


62 


THE GAZETTE OE INDIA: FEBRUARY U, 1 959/M AGIFA 25, J 880 


[Part I— Sec, I 


PART I — Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Rules, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by 

the Supreme Court 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

,\Yif Delhi, the fill' February 1959 

No. 44/13/ 58*Poll(I). — The following statement showing the number of persons in detention under the Preventive Detention Art, 1 050 
(4 of 1950). in various States as on the 31st December, J938, is published for general information : — 


Name of the State 


No. of persons in detention under the Preventive 
Detention Act, 1950, on the 31st December, 1958 


Detained under section 

5(i)(a) 


Clause (i) Clause (ii) Clai inc(iii) 


Detained 

under 

- — — Section 

•1 (i)(bi 

Total nl 
Cols, a- 4 


Grand 

Total 


■j 


:i 4 5 


I. Andhra Pradesh 

а. Assam .... 

3. Bihar .... 

4. Bombay .... 

5. Kerala .... 

б . Madhya Pradesh 

7. Madras .... 

8. Mysore .... 

9. Orissa ... 

10, Punjab . 

II. Rajasthan 

1 a. tJltar Pradesh 
13. West Bengal 

1 4. Delhi .... 

15, Himachal Pradesh 
t 0. Mam pm 
17. Tripura 

fOT.VL 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economic Affairs) 
RESOLUTION 

Sew Delhi, the 5 Ih February 1959 

No, F.22(5)-NS/58.-Smt. Sliarda Parikh, whose resignation 
I mitt the membership ol the Bombay State Advisor y Jtoaid 
Women's Savings Campaign was announced in the Ministry of 
Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) Resolution No. 
F.22 (5)-NS/58, dated the 15th December, 1958. is re nominat- 
ed a Member n t that Board. 

2. Stilt. Kaiulu Bcvuwal and Sint V. M. Kavl.i. 5 he 
Chairman anti Mcnibet respectively ol the Rajasthan State 
Advisorv Board of the Women's Savings Campaign have 
resigned, 

R. SARAN, Under Secy 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE S. INDUSTRY 
RESOLUTION 

A Vie Delhi, the .‘I rd Frb> mn 1959 

No. 9(5), '57-Salt.— Sliri K, Ramaswamv Naidu, 3/68, Ttichy 
Road, Rainanathapuram, Coimbatore, has been appointed as 
a member ol the Madras Regional Board for salt 1 are Shri C 
Ramanujan resigned, 

ORLltH 

Ordered that this Resolution he tomnuiiiicaied to all State 
Governments, all Ministries of the Government of India. Plan- 
ning Commission Cabinet Secretariat and Prime Minister's 
Secretariat . 


I 

1 , 1 

1 2 

* - :i ■ • ft 

‘2 4 

3 

IS . , t* 

1 

rw 

1 . . i 

- - 3- . • 

3 t :) 

3 68 

71 t 7a 

N. SAHGALj Jt. Secs . 

2. Ordered j1m<i ihaL 
(iazcilc nl ludiii, P:ut 

die Refold Lion br published in Die 
T Set lion 1. 


P JOHARI. Dy Nc< v. 


Sew Delhi, the iith February 1959 

No. 1 1-SSl (B) (3)/56.— (n pursuance of bye-law 17 ol the 
Registered Bye-Jaws of the Family Wcllarc Co-operative Indus 
trial Society Ltd. Vijayawada, the Government ot India here 
by extends the term of the Committee constituted in Ibis 
Ministry's Notification No. 1 1-LI (B) (3)/56, dated the 5l!i 
June. 1957, uplo and including the 31st January, 1959. 

No. 1 1-SSI (B) (3)/36.— fn pursuance o( bye-law 17 ol the 
Registered Bv-laws of the Family Welfare Co-opeiarive Indus- 
trial Society Ltd.. Vijayawada, the Government of India here 
by nominates with effect horn the 1st February, 1959, and upto 
and including the I7lh May. i960, the Managing Committee 
of the said society, and directs that it shall consist of the 
following members, namely:— 

1 .Shrlmati A. C. Krishna Ran. Chairman, Andhra 
Pradesh Social Wcllarc Advisory Board. Hyderabad. 

2. Kumari J. Jamuuina Hai, Director, Women’s Welfare. 
Andlna Pradesh Hyderabad. 

3 Shrimati Ttirlapatt |anakamma, C/o Shri T Sltarama- 
janajulu, Satyanaravanapuram, Vijayawada. 

I. Mrs. Bangaru Raju. C/o Chief Engineer. Cement 
Factory, V’ijayawada. (Krishna District). 

5 Mrs. Snseela Devi. C/o Mylavaram Zamindar Satva 
narayanapnram, Vijayawada (Krislina Dlstrici). 

6. Mrs. Anathayya, 'uitvauaravanapuranj, Vijayawada. 
(Krishna Distt.). 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY >4, 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


63 


Part 1— Sec, 1] 


7. Mrs. Subbalaxmi, C/o Burmah Shell Inspector, 
SaLyanarayanapuram, Vijayawada. (Krishna Distt.). 

8, Shri Mu' r * . '1 y, B.Sc. Patch Papiah 

Road, i . 1 . 

y. The Deputy Registrar ol Cooperative Societies, 
Vijayawada. 

10. The Assistant Director oC Industries and Commerce, 
Government of Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada. 

H. Director, Small Industries Service Institute, Hyderebad- 
N, S. VA1DYANATHAN, Under Secy, 


(Office ol the C hief Controller ol Imports and Exports) 
NOTICE 

.Yew Delhi, the 5 th February 1959 

No, CCI/SPF./A1-IV /CELL/5/59.— It is hereby notified, 
that in exercise of Ihc powers conferred by clause 9 of the 
Impom f Control) Order, 1955, the Government ol India, in 
•the Ministry of Commerce and Industry propose to cancel 
Licence No. A 9I2477/58/AU/CCI/HQ dated (ilh December 
1(158 valued ai Rs. 8,750 lor the import of Pump Calibrating 
Machine, Mathematical ft Drawing Instruments, Cellulose 
Whcsivc Tape and Slide Rules from the Soft Curcncy Area 
cxrcpl South Vfrie.i, granted bv the Chief Controller of 
Imports It Exports, New Delhi, to Messrs. The Registrar, King 
Edward Researah Institute, Near Railway Station, Saharanpur 
U.P. unless snHicicnl Cause against this is furnished to the 
Chief Controller oi Imports & Exports, New Delhi within 
ten days of the date of issue of this notice, by the said 
Messrs. The Registrar. King Edward Research Institute. 
Near Railway Station, Saharanpur U.P. or any Bank, or an% 
other party, who may be interested in it. 

2. In view of what is stated above Messrs. The Registrar 
King Edward Research Institute, Near Railway Station. 
Sahai .input U.P. or any Bank, or any other party, who mas 
he interested in the sanl licence No. A 912477/58/AU/CCI; 
HQ dated 6th December 1958 arc hereby directed not to 
enter into am commitments against the said licence and 
rent in it immediately to the Chief Controller of Imports and 
Exports. New Delhi. 

S. N. BILGRAMf. Chief Controllei . 
of Imports and Exports. 


MINISTRY OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH AND CULTURAL 
AFFAIRS 

.Veie Delhi, the Ilh February 1959 

hi the matte) ol Sugar tiduration Endowment ffrust Upper 
India, Lucknow. 

No. F.1H-3/58-C.1.— ' Whereas an application has been made 
through the Government of U.P. by the committee of 
management of the Nagar Education Endowment Trust. 
Upper India. Lucknow, that the securities specified hi the 
Schedule hereto annexed be vested under the designation of 
ihc said Trust in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments 
for India to be applied in trust upon the terms contained in 
ihe scheme ol administration of the Trust published by the 
Government of Uttar Pradesh in their notification No. 798/ 
NX-385- 1924, dated 20th October. 1925: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of Ihe powers coiiteired by the 
sub-section (l) of section 4 of the Charitable Endowments 
Art, 1890 (6 of 1890) the Central Government hereby directs 
i hat the security specibed in the schedule hereto annexed 
shall be vested in the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments 
lor India upon the terms of the said Schedule. 

The. Schedule 

P O National Saving Certificate issued by the Post OfSce 
at Aminahad Park, Lucknow in favour of the Nagar Educa 
lion Endowment Trust. Upper India. 

No. I/O 25)14 iRet. No. 165) for Rs. 1,000. 

K. P. RABINDRANATHAN. Under Secy 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT fc COMMUNICATIONS 
( Department of Transport) 

(Tran sport Wing) 

RESOLUTION 

jVrrr Delhi, the 4lh February 1959 

No. 6-MT (3S)/58.— In partial modification of the Ministry 
ol Transport fc Communications, Department of Transport 
(Transport Wing). Resolution No. 6-MT (3S)/58, dated the 
15th December, 1958, the Central Government has been 
pleased to appoint Shri L. W. Balcombe, a representative of 
ihe Calcutta Liners’ Conference (Crews), Calcutta, to be a 
number of the National Welfare Board for Seafarers vice 
Shri M. R. Das, resigned. 


OaDEK 

Ordered that a copy of this Resolution be communicated 
to the Private Military Secretaries to the President, the Prime 
Minister’s Secretariat^ 1 the Cabinet Secretariat, the Planning 
Commission, the Ministries of the Government of India, ail 
the State Governments, the Port Trusts, Bombay and Madras, 
the Port Commissioners, Calcutta, the Cochin Harbour 
Authority, Lhe Visakhapatnam Port Authority and the Director 
General ol Shipping, Bombay. 

Ordered also that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information. 

NAGENDRA SINGH, Jt. Secy 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION A BROADCASTING 

RESOLUTION 

iVete Delhi-2 . the 5th February 1959 

No. 1/29/58-FP.— In supersession of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information ana 
Broadcasting No. 1/51/54-F, dated the 2nd February, 1955, 
(he following rules are notified in regard to the working of 
ihe Film Advisory Board at Bombay and the approval of 
films as scieiilihc films, films intended for educational piu- 
poses, films dealing with news and current events and docu- 
mentary films in accordance wiiii the directions issued by 
the Central Government under sub-section (4) of section 12 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952) and by the 
vaiious State Governments under the corresponding Stale 
Laws. These rules shall come Into force with effect from 
Monday, the 16th February, 1959. 

RULES 

1. The function ol die Film Advisory Board shall lie to 
make recommendations to the Central Government i ( yard- 
ing Lhe suitability of films for approval as scientific films, 
films intended for educational purposes, films dealing with 
news and current events or documentary films in accordance 
with the directions issued by the Central Government under 
sub-section (4) of section 12 of the Cinematograph Act. 1952 
(37 of 1952) and by the State Governments under tin 
lorresponding State Laws 

2. The Board shall consist ot not less lhan seven members 
as follows: — 

(a) Cliannian ol rhe Central Board of Film Censors - 
Lx-Optcio Chairman. 

ib) Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film Censois, 
Bombay— Ex-Officio Member. 

(c) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors, at Bombay, nominaled by 
the Central Government 

(d) Not less than four other members, including at least 
one person with knowledge of films and film-making 
and one educationist, nominated by the Central 
Government 

Explanation.— The Additional Regional Officer oi (fit- 
Assistant Regional Officer shall act as an ex-officio member 
in any meeting of the Board which the Regional Officer 
docs not attend. 

3. Members other than the ex-o/ficto members shall bold 
office for a period of one year. 

f. Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 3, Ihc Cell 
tral Government may at any time terminate the membership 
of any member of the Board before die expiration of the 
period specified in that rule. 

5. The Regional Officer of the Cential Board of Film Cen 
wars at Bombay shall be the Secretary of the Board. 

6. The non-official members ol the Board may be paid 
such (ravelling allowance lor attending meetings of the Board 
as the Central Govcrnmem may. from time to time, deter 
mine. 

7. No act or proceeding of lhe Board shall lie called in 
question on the ground merely of the existence of anv vacamv 
hi or defect in the constitution of the Board. 

8. Meetings oi the Board shall be presided over by the 
Chairman, and. in his absence, by a membei elected tn the 
members present from amongsl themselves. 

9. The quorum of the Board shall be three. 

10. The Board shall ordinarily meet once a week but a 
meeting of the Board may be called bv the Chairman as often 
as he consider* necessary. 

11. Any person desiring the Board to consider the suit* 
bility of any film for the purpose specified in rule 1 shall 
send an application in writing to the Secretary of the Board 
stating the title of the film, its length, the name of the pro 
ducer and such other particulars as may be required by the 
Board 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: FEBRUARY 14, 1959/MAGHA 25, 1880 


[Part I— Sec. 1 



Filins with lengths exceeding 2,000 feet in 35mm will not 
be entertained by the Board for the purpose of these rules. 

12. After examination of the film by the Board, the opinion 
of each member present shall be recorded as to whether:— 

(a) the film is suitable for approval as a scientific film, 
film intended for educational purposes, film dealing 
with news and current events or a documentary film; 
or 

(b) the film would be suitable for approval In any 
specific category on carrying out specified excisions or 
modifications therein; ur 

fc) the film is not suitable for approval as a film In any 
of the said categories. 

13. The opinion of the Board shall be In accordance with 
the opinion of the majority of the members present at the 
nseeting and, in the event of a tie, in accordance with the 
•pinion of the presiding officer. 

14. (a) If the opinion of the Board is that the film is 
suitable for approval as a scientific film, a film intended tor 
educational purposes, a film dealing with news and 
current events or a documentary Jilin, the Chairman shall 
make a recommendation to the Central Government In 
accordance with the opinion of the Board. 

(b) If the opinion of the Board is as in clause (b) or 
clause (c) of rule 12, the Chairman shall communicate the 
•pinion of the Board to the applicant in writing and specify 
a date, not later than seven days from such communication, 
within which he may, if he so desires, make a representation 
against the opinion of the Board. 

(c) On expiry of the date so specified or on receipt of the 
representation, the Chaiiman shall make a recommendation 
to the Central Government in accordance with the opinion 
•f the Board and forward the representation made by the 
applicant, to the Central Government. 

(d) If the applicant agrees to carry out the excisions oi 
modifications specified by the Boaid, the Chairman shall, after 
satisfying himself that such excisions or modifications are 
••tried out, forward the recommendation of the Board to the 
Central Government. 

15. Ob receipt of the recommendation of the Board, thc 
Central Government may, after considering the representation, 
if any, made under sub-rule (b) of Tule 14 and such enquiry 
as it may consider necessary, approve the film as suitable in 
any category specified in rule 1 or pass such orders in the 
matter as it deems fit. 

16. Films approved by the Central Government in any of 
the categories specified in rule 1 shall be notified in tne 
Gazette of India, together with th c name of the applicant, 
the title of the film, the name of thc producer and the 
length of the film as approved and its category. 

R. K. RAMADHYANI, Secy. 

MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING Sc SUPPLY 

RESOLUTION 

Nexv Delhi, the 3 1 At January 1959 

No. HII-5(27)/57-HTV-(ii).— In supersession of this Minis- 
iry's Resolution No. HII-4(8)/54, dated the 6th February, 
1956, regarding the constitution of a NaLional Building 
Council to guide and direcL the activities of the National 
Buildings Organisation, it has been decided that until further 
orders, the Council shall be constituted as follows:— 

(I) President — Union Minister lor Works, Housing and 
Supply. 

(II) Members— 

(a) Ministers nominated by the States to be in charge 
of Housing in their respective States. 

(5) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), New Delhi. 
Buildings Organisation, other than Chief Engineers 
of the State Governments; these Chief Engineers may, 
however, if so desired by the Housing Ministers of 
their respective States, act as their alternates on the 
Council. 

(c) A representative each nominated by thc Ministries ot 
Transport t: Communications (Department of Trans- 
port) and Irrigation S: Power, 


(d) Representatives, not exceeding ten in number, from 
amongst Engineers, Architects and Town Planners, 
not in the employ of thc Central or the State Gov- 
ernments, nominated by the Government of India. 

(e) Representatives, not exceeding eight in number, from 
amongst experts in the fields relating to Housing, 
nominated by the Government of India. 

(f) Two representatives nominated by the Government of 
India from Trade Associations and Trade Unions. 

(Ill) Director, National Buildings Organisation will be Ex 
officio Member Secretary ’of the National Building Council. 

Or»e* 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated 

to:— 

(1) National Buildings Organisation, New Delhi. 

(2) Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs, 
New Delhi. 

(3) Ministry of Irrigation L Power, New Delhi. 

(4) Ministry of Health, New Delhi. 

(5) Ministry of Railways (Railway Board), New Delhi. 

(6) Ministry of Defence, New Delhi. 

(7) Ministry of Labour tc Employment, New Delhi. 

(8) Ministry of Commerce le Industry, New Delhi. 

(9) Ministry of Transport L Communications (Depart- 
ment of Transport), New Delhi. 

(10) Ministry of Food L Agriculture, New Delhi. 

(11) Ministry of Finance (I. lc W. Branch), New Delhi. 

(12) C. E., Central Public Works Department, New Delhi. 

(13) Director General of Health Services, New Delhi. 

(14) Engineer-in-Chief, Army Headquarters, New Delhi. 

(15) Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, New 
Delhi. 

(16) Director, C.B.R. I., Roorkee. 

(17) President, Forest Research Institute, Dehra Dun. 

(18) All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, 
Calcutta. 

(19) Director, Indian Standards Institution, New Delhi. 

(20) All Slate Governments (Housing Secretaries). 

(21) F. A. (I U W). 

Ordered alio that the Resolution be published in the 
Gazette of India for general information. 

R. F. ISAR, Jt. Sccy. 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 
RESOLUTION 

New Delhi , the 4 th February 1959 

No. WB-8(12).— Consequent upon the death of Shri Som- 
uatb P. Dave, M.P., a member representing workers on the 
Central Wage Board for Cement Industry, the following 
amendment is made in para 2 of the Ministry of Labour and 
FusfJoymem Resolution No. WB-6 f5), dated the 2nd April, 

Amendment 

“In Item fl) under the heading 'MEMBERS REPRESENT- 
ING WORKERS' for Shri Somuatb P. Dave, M.P., substitute 
Shri H. N. Trivedi." 

Onn 

Ordered that a copy of the Resolution be communicated 
to: — 

(i) ALL SLate Governments and Union Territories. 

HI) All Ministries of the Government of India and the 
Planning Commission. 

(iil) All-India Organisations of Employers and Workers. 

Ordered also that thc Resolution be published in the 
Gazette oi India for general information, 

P. M. MENON, Secy. 



