Tfarca?) Ro 7 2 


REGISTERED No. D-(D>-72 



aiRci...._ 

^hc (Bazettc oT ^ndia 


arararmr 

EXTRAORDINARY 

RFT n_amg 1 
PART II_Section 1 
srtfc pft Tr 4 Jwfarer 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 

Ho 15] Rffectft, R|PtfcRrTT, 20, 197830, 1900 (5Pf>) 

No. 15] NEVV DELHI, THURSDAY, APRIL in, 1978 CHAITRA 30,1900 (Saka) 


*r fir«r 9( s 3 «'«*u snift tP" *1? ararr cht sir r*$ i 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may he filed 
as a separate compilation 

. - ’ - - - -— 

MINISTRY 0F T AW, JUSTICE AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Legislative Department) 

New Delhi , the^^th April, 1978 /Chaitra 30, 1900 (Saka) 

the dadra ANTQ NAGAR HAVELI SALES tax 
REGULATION, 1978 
No. 2 dr'1978 

Promulgated by the President in the TXyerity-ninth Year of the 

Republic of India. 

A Regulation to impose a tax on the sale of certain giftpds in the Union 
territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and to provide-Jor matters 
connected therewith. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by article 240 of the Constitu¬ 
tion, the President is pleased to promulgate the following Regulation 
made by him: — 

1. (2) This Regulation may be called the Dadra and Nagar Haveli 
Sales Tax Regulation, 1978. 

(2) It extends to the whole of the Union territory of Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli. 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Administrator may, 
by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. 

2. In this Regulation, unless the context otherwise requires,— 

(a) “Administrator” means the Administrator of Dadra and 

Nagar Haveli appointed by the President under article 239 of the 

Constitution; 


Short title, 
extent 
and com. 
mence- 
ment. 


Defini- 

tio*s. 


( 119 ) 



iab 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II— 


fb) “business" includes— 

(i) any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adven¬ 
ture or concern in the nature of trade, commerce nr manufac¬ 
ture, whether or not such trade, commerce, manufacture, ad¬ 
venture or concern is carried on with a motive to make profit 
and whether or not any profit aocrues from such trade, com¬ 
merce, manufacture, adventure or concern; and 

(ii) any transaction of buying, selling or supplying plant, 
machinery, raw materials, processing materials, packing mate¬ 
rials, empties, consumable stores, waste products, or such othe 
goods, or waste or scrap of any of them, which is ancillary 
incidental to or resulting from, such trade, commerce, mam 
ture, adventure or concern; 

but does not include any activity in the nature of mere 
profession; 

(c) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner 
appointed under sub-section (I) of section 3; 

( d ) “dealer" means any person engaged in 
buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods, diri 
wise, in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and includes a cat 
the Government of India, or of any State, or of any L) 

Explanation 1 ,—A Hindu undivided family, 
other association of persons whether incorpor- 
deemed to be a person for the purpose of t" 

Explanation 2 .—A co-operative soci* 
f 





Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


121 


extracting, altering, ornamenting, finishing or otherwise proces* 
sing, treating or adapting any goods, but does not include such 
manufactures or manufacturing processes as may be prescribed; 

(h) “Official Gazette” means the Gazette of India; 

(i) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under this 
Regulation; 

( j ) “raw materials” mean goods which go into and form part 
of the finished product and include materials which are consumed 
in the process of manufacture; 

(Jc) “registered” means registered under this Regulation; 

(l) “sale”, with its grammatical variations and cognate expres¬ 
sions, means any transfer of property in goods by one person to 
another for cash or deferred payment or other valuable considera¬ 
tion, and includes a transfer of goods on hire-purchase or other 
system of payment by instalments, but does not include a mortgage 
or hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods. 

Explanation .—A sale or purchase of goods shall be deemed to 
take place inside Dadra and Nagar Haveli if the goods are within 
that territory,— 

(i) in the case of specific or ascertained goods, at the 
the contract of sale is made; and 

(ii) in the case of unascertained or future goods/ at the 
time of their appropriation to the contract of sale by the seller 
or by the buyer, whether assent of the other party is prior or 
subsequent to such appropriation; 

(m) “sale-price” means the amount paid or payable to a dealer 
as consideration for the sale of any goods, excluding any sum 
allowed as cash discount or trade discount according to the practice 
normally prevailing in the trade, but inclusive of any sum charged 
for anything done by the dealer in respect of the goods at the time 
of or before the delivery thereof, other than the cost of ffeight or 
delivery, the cost of installation or the cost of insurance for transit 
in cases where such cost is separately charged; 

(n) “turnover” means the aggregate of the sale-prices received 
and receivable by a dealer in respect of any taxable goods made 
during a given period after deducting therefrom— 

(i) the amount arrived at by' applying the following 
formula:— 

Rate of taxXaggregate of sale-prices 
100 plus rate of tax; 

Provided that no deduction on the basis of above formula 
shall be made if the amount by way of tax collected by a regis¬ 
tered dealer in accordance with the provisions of this, Regula¬ 
tion, has been otherwise deducted from the aggregate of sale- 
prices, 



122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II— 


Taxing 

autho- 

ritleo. 


Incidence 

of tax 


Explanation. —Where the turnover of a dealer Is taxable at 
different rates, the aforesaid formula shall be applied separately 
in respect of each part of the turnover liable to a different rate 
of tax; 

( n) the amount of sale-prices of all taxable goods returned 
to the dealer, within the prescribed period, by the purchasers 
of such goods: 

Provided that satisfactory evidence of such return of goods 
and of refund or adjustment in accounts of the sale-price there¬ 
of is produced before the assessing authority; 

(o) “year” means a financial year, but in relation to any parti¬ 
cular registered dealer for the purposes of this Regulation (except 
for the purposes specified under sections 4, 5, 12, 13, 14 and 15) 
means the year with reference to which, according to the option 
declared by such dealer within the prescribed period, the accounts 
of that dealer are ordinarily maintained in his books: 

Provided that where an option has once been exercised by a 
registered dealer, he shall not, except with the consent of the Com¬ 
missioner and upon such conditions as the Commissioner may deter¬ 
mine, make any variation in respect thereof. 

3. (1) For carrying out the purposes of this Regulation, the Adminis¬ 
trator may appoint a person to be a Commissioner of Sales Tax, and such 
other persons to assist him as he thinks fit. 

(2) The persons appointed under sub-section (1) shall exercise such 
powers as may be conferred, and perform such duties as may be required, 
by or under this Regulation. 

(3) All persons appointed under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to 
be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal 
Code. 

4. (1) With effect from such date as the Administrator may, by noti¬ 
fication in the Official Gazette, appoint, being not earlier than thirty days 
after the date of the said notification, every dealer whose gross turnover 
during the year immediately preceding the commencement of this Regula¬ 
tion exceeded the taxable quantum shall be liable to pay tax under this 
Regulation on all sales effected after the date so notified: 

Provided that different dates may be appointed for goods— 

(i) specified in the First Schedule; 

(ii) specified in the Third Schedule; 

(iii) not specified in any Schedule: 

Provided further that a dealer who deals exclusively in one or more 
classes of goods specified in the Second Schedule or in respect of which 
no date has been appointed, shall not be liable to pny any tax under this 
Regulation. 

(2) Every dealer to whom sub-section (1) does not apply, shall, if his 
gross turnover calculated from the commencement of any year exceeds 
the taxable quantum at any time within such year, be liable to pay tax 


45 of 1860, 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


123 


SKC. 1] 


under this Regulation, on the expiry of one month from the date on which 
such gross turnover first exceeds tne taxable quantum, on all sales effec¬ 
ted after such expiry: 

Provided that a non-resident dealer or a casual trader shall be liable 
to pay tax on sales effected after the date on which his gross turnover 1 
first exceeds the taxable quantum. 

(3) Every dealer who has become liable to p'ay tax under this Re¬ 
gulation shall continue to be so liable until the expiry of three consecu¬ 
tive year's, during each of which his gross turnover has failed to exceed 
the taxable quantum and such furthe r period after the date of such 
expiry as may be prescribed, and on the expiry of thi s latter period his 
liability to pay tax shall cease. 

(4) Every dealer whose liability to pay tax under this Regulation 
has ceased under the provisions of sub-section (3), shall, if his gross turn¬ 
over calculated from the commencement of any year again exceeds the 
taxable quantum at any time within such year, be liable to pay such 
tax on the expiry of two months from the date on which such gross 
turnover again first exceeds, the taxable quantum on all sales effected 
after such expiry; 

Provided that a non-resident dealer or a casual trader shall be liable 
to pay tax on sales effected after the date on which hi s gross turnover 
first exceeds thq taxable quantum. 

(5) In this Regulation, the expression “taxable quantum” means,— 

(a) in relation to any dealer who imports or brings for sale any 
goods into Dadra and Nagar Haveli, or to whom any goods are 
despatched from any place outside Dadra and Nagar Haveli, for sale 
or who manufactures or produces any goods for sale, and the value 
of goods imported or brought, or manufactured, or produced by 
him or despatched to him, during the year is not less than Rs. 1500 
(Rupees one thousand five hundred)—ten thousand rupees; 

(b) in relation to any dealer who imports or brings for sale any 
goods into Dadra and Nagar Haveli or to whom any goods for sale 
are despatched from any place outside Dadra and Nagar Haveli, or 
who manufactures or produces any goods for sale, and the value of 
goods imported or brought, or manufactured or produced by him or 
despatched to him, during the year is less than Rs. 1500 (Rupees 
one thousand five hundred)—twenty thousand rupees; 

(c) In relation to a non-resident dealer who has no place of 
business In Dadra and Nagar Haveli but who sells goods therein 
and a casual trader—one thousand five hundred rupees;, 

(d) in relation to any other dealer—thirty thousand rupees: 

Provided that if the Administrator is of opinion that having regard to 
the difficulty in maintaining accounts or for other sufficient cause the 
taxable quantum ip respect of any class of dealers falling under clause 
(a), clause (b), or clause (c) should be increased, the Administrator 
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix in respect of such class 
of dealers such taxable quantum, not exceeding thirty thousand rupees, 
AS may be specified in the notification. 



124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Paht II— 


Liability 
after can¬ 
cellation 
of registra¬ 
tion. 


Liability 

of dealers 

registered 

under 

Central 

Sales Tax 

Act. 


Rate of 
tax. 


5. Any dealer whose certificate of registration granted under section 
12, section 13, section 14 or section 15 has been cancelled shall, if his 
gross turnover calculated from the commencement of any year or from 
any date within the year exceeds the taxable quantum at any time with¬ 
in such year, be liable to pay such tax after the expiry of one month from 
the date on which such turnover again first exceeds the taxable quantum 
on all sales, effected after such expiry, of goods imported from outside 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli or manufactured therein: 

Provided that a non-resident dealer or a casual trader shall be liable 
to pay tax on all sales effected after the date on which his gross turnover 
again exceeds the taxable quantum. 

6. Every dealer shall, notwithstanding that he is not liable to pay 
tax under section 4 or section 5, be liable to pay tax under this Regula¬ 
tion so long as he is registered under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, 
on all sales effected by him or on his behalf within Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli on or after the date of his liability or the date of his registration, 
whichever is earlier, under the said Act: 

Provided that no tax shall be payable in respect of sales in any period 
prior to the commencement of this Regulation, 

7. (1) The tax payable by a dealer under this Regulation shall be 
levied on the taxable turnover at the following rates, namely: — 

(a) In respect of goods specified in the First Schedule, at the 
rate of twelve paise in the rupee: 

( b ) in respect of goods specified in the Third Schedule, at the 
rate of four paise in the rupee; 

(c) in respect of any other goods, not being goods specified in 
the Second Schedule, at the rate of seven paise in the rupee: 

Provided that the Administrator may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, with the previous approval of the Central Government add to, 
or omit from, or otherwise amend the First and Third Schedules: 

Provided further that, if, in respect of any goods or class of goods the 
Administrator is of opinion that it is expedient in the interests of the 
general public so to do, he may, with the previous approval of the Cen¬ 
tral Government by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that the 
tax in respect of the taxable turnover of such goods or class of goods shall, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified in such notification, be 
levied at such modified rate not exceeding the rate applicable under this 
sub-section as may be specified in the notification. 

(2) The Administrator or any other person authorised in this behalf 
may permit dealers, in such circumstances and under such conditions as 
may be prescribed, to compound the tax assessable on their taxable turn¬ 
over under the provisions of this Regulation by paying in lieu thereof a 
lump sum in such manner as may be prescribed. 

(3) In this Regulation, the expression “taxable turnover” means that 
part of a dealer’s gross turnover during any period which remains after 
deducting therefrom his turnover during that period on— 

(I) sales of goods or class of goods which are specified in the 
Second Schedule, or In resp'ect of which no date has been appointed 


74 of 1038. 



8k. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


125 


under sub-section ( 1) of section 4, or class of sales exempted from 
payment of tax payable under section 11 ; 

(II) sales to a registered dealer, not being the sales of goods 
which are specified by the Administrator under section 8 as goods 
taxable at a particular point of sale,— 

(a) of taxable goods of the class or classes specified in the 
certificate of registration of such dealer, as being intended for— 

(i) resale by him within Dadra and Nagar Haveli; 

(ii) resale by him in the course of inter-State trade or 
commerce; 

(iii) resale in the course of export out of India or resale 
after such export; or 

(iv) use by him within Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 

as raw materials for manufacture of taxable goods for sale within 
Dadra and Nagar Haveli; 

(b) of containers or other materials for the packing of goods 
of the class or classes so specified for sale: 

Provided that no deduction shall be allowed unless the dealer, 
who sells the goods, furnishes in the prescribed manner,— 

(a) in the case of sales falling within items (i) and (iv) 
of sub-clause (a) and within sub-clause (b), a declaration duly 
filled up and signed by the registered dealer to whom the goods 
are sold in such form, and containing such particulars, as may 
be prescribed; and 

(b) in the case of sales falling within items (ii) and (iii) 
of sub-clause (a), a certificate in the prescribed form from the 
registered dealer to whom the goods are sold, that the goods 
are purchased for resale in the course of inter-State trade or 
commerce or for resale in the course of export out of India or 
for resale after such export and that such goods will be so 
resold by himself or by any other registered dealer to whom 
he resells the goods within nine months from the date of such 
purchase or such further period as may be prescribed: 

Provided further that where any goods specified in th e certi¬ 
ficate of registration are purchased bv a registered dealer for any of 
the purposes specified in sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b), but are 
utilised by him for any other purpose, or are not resold in the manner 
and within the period prescribed i the price of the goods so purchased 
shall be allowed to be deducted from the gross turnover of the selling 
dealer, but the Commissioner or any person appointed under sub¬ 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 , to assist him shall, after giving the purchas¬ 
ing dealer an opportunity of being heard, Impose a penalty upon 
the purchasing dealer not exceeding the amount of tax which would 
result If such goods were subject to sales tax at the rate leviable on 
them at the time of their purchase; 



Power of 
Adminis¬ 
trator to 
prescribe 
points at 
which 
goods may 
be taxed. 


Burden of 
proof. 


Tax-free 

goods. 


Exemp¬ 

tion. 


126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II— 


(III) sales of goods which are specified by the Administrator 
under sub-section (2) of section 8 as goods taxable at a point other 
than a point referred to in sub-section (1) of that section: 

Provided that in the case of such sales proof of payment of tax 
at such point is adduced to the satisfaction of the Commissioner; 

(IV) sales to any undertaking supplying electrical energy to 
the public under a licence or sanction granted or deemed to have 
been granted under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, of goods for 
use by it in the generation or distribution of such energy; 

(V) sales of goods which are shown to the satisfaction of the 
Commissioner not to have taken place in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. 
or to have taken place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce 
within the meaning of section 3 of The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, 
or in the course of import of the goods into, or export of goods out 
of, the territory of India, within the meaning of section 5 of the 
said Act; 

(VI) such other sales as may be prescribed. 

8. (I) The tax payable under this Regulation shall be levied on the 
taxable turnover at the point of sale to the consumer or to a perlbn other 
than a registered dealer. 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (I) or else¬ 
where in this Regulation, the Administrator may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be speci¬ 
fied therein, specify the point of sale 1 in the series of sales by the first 
or the successive dealers as the point at which any goods or class of 
goods may be taxed, and on the issue of such notification, the sales at 
points of sales in relation to any such goods or class of goods other than 
the point of sale so notified,'shall be exempted from payment of tax under 
this Regulation. 

9. The burden of proving that in respect of any sale effected by a 
dealer he Is not liable to pay tax under this Regulation shall be on him. 


10, (1) No tax shall be payable under this Regulation on the sale of 
goods specified in the Second Schedule subject to the conditions and 
exceptions, if any, set out therein. 

(2) The Administrator may, with the previous approval of the Cen¬ 
tral Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to or omit 
from, or otherwise amend, the entries in the Second Schedule, 

11. (1) Subject to such conditions as he may impose, the Adminis¬ 
trator may, if he considers It necessary so to do in the public interest, 
by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt any specified clas s of dea¬ 
lers or any specified class of sales from payment of the whole or any 
part of any tax payable under this Regulation. 

(2) Where any specified class of dealers or class of sales is exempt 
from payment of tax under sub-section (1) and if there be a breach of 
any of the conditions subject to which such exemption was granted, 
the seller, in case he is responsible for such breach, shall be liable to 


9 of 1910. 


74 of 1988. 



■Sec. lj THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 127 


pay tax on such sales as if no such exemption had been granted notwith¬ 
standing that he may not be liable to pay tax under section 4. But if 
the purchaser is responsible for the breach, the Commissioner or any 
person appointed under sub-section (1) of section 3 to assist the Com¬ 
missioner shall, after giving the purchaser a reasonable opportunity of 
being heard, impose upon him a penalty not exceeding one and a half 
times the amount of tax which would result if such goods were subject 
to sales-tax ai the rate leviable at the time of their purchase. 

(3) If the Commissioner or any person appointed under sub-section 

(I) of section 3 to assist the Commissioner, has reason to believe that 
the seller is liable to pay tax under sub-section (2), the Commissioner 
or such person shall, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity 
of being heard, assess the amount of tax so due. 

Registr,*, 
tion of 
dealers, 

(2) Every dealer required by sub-section (I) to be registered shall 
make application in this behalf in such manner, within such time, and 
to such authority, as may be prescribed. 

(3) If the prescribed authority is satisfied that the application for 
registration is in order, it shall, in accordance with such procedure as 
may be prescribed, register the applicant and grant him a certificate of 
registration in the prescribed form which shall specify all his places or 
business and the class or classes of goods, for the purpose of clause (II) 
of sub-section (3) of section 7. 

(4) The prescribed authority may, from time to time, amend any 
certificate of registration in accordance with information furnished to 
it under section 26 or otherwise received. 

(5) The Commissioner may, for good and sufficient reasons, demand 
from a registered dealer or from a person who has applied for registra¬ 
tion under this Regulation— 

(i) reasonable security for the proper payment of tax payable 
by him under this Regulation; 

(ii) reasonable security for the proper custody and use of the 
forms referred to in the first proviso to clause (II) of sub-section 
(3) of section 7 which may be given to him by the prescribed 
authority. 

(6) When any dealer has been convicted or has paid composition 
money under section 38 in respect of any contravention of sub-section 
(I) of this section, the prescribed authority shall register such dealer 
aiid grant him a certificate of registration, and such registration shall 
take effect as if it had been made under sub-section (3) of this section 
or upon the dealer’s application. 

(7) When— 

(a) any business in respect of which a certificate has been 
granted to a dealer on an application made, has been discontinued 
or transferred, or 


12 . (1) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay tax under section 4 
or section 6, carry on business as a -dealer unless he h|as filed an applica¬ 
tion in accordance with sub-section (2) or has been registered and pos¬ 
sesses a registration certificate under this Regulation. 



Voluntary 

registra¬ 

tion 


Provision¬ 
al regia 
tration. 


I 2 8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II— 


(f>) a dealer has ceased to be liable to pay tax under section 4 
of this Regulation, 

the Commissioner shall cancel the registration, 

(8) The Commissioner may, at any time for reasons to be recorded 
in writing and after giving the dealer an opportunity of being heard, 
cancel any certificate of registration. 

13. (I) Any dealer, other than a dealer who deals exclusively in 
one or more classes of goods specified in the Second Schedule or in res¬ 
pect of which no date has been appointed under sub-section (1) of sec¬ 
tion 4, whose gross turnover during a year exceeds ten thousand rupees 
may, notwithstanding that he may not be liable to pay tax under section 
4, apply in the prescribed manner to the prescribed authority for regis¬ 
tration under this Regulation. 

(2) The provisions of sub-sections (3), (4), (5), (7) and (8) of 
section 12 shall apply in respect of applications for registration under 
this section. 

f'3) Every dealer who has been registered upon application made 
under this section shall for so long as his registration remains in force 
be liable to pay tax under this Regulation. 

(4) The registration of a dealer upon an application made under 
this section shall be in force for a period of not less than three complete 
years and shall remain in force thereafter unless cancelled under the 
provisions of this Regulation. 

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4), a dealer registered 
upon application made under this section may apply in the prescribed 
manner not less than six months before the end of a year to the autho¬ 
rity which granted him a certificate of registration for the cancellation 
of such registration to take effect at the end of the year in which the 
application for such cancellation is made; and the said authority shall, 
unless the dealer is liable to pay tax under section 4, cancel the regis¬ 
tration accordingly. 

14. (1) Any person who intends to establish a business in Dadra and 
Nagar Haveli for the purpose of manufacturing or producing goods of 
a value exceeding ten thousand rupees per year, may, notwithstanding 
that he is not required to register himself under section 12, apply in the 
prescribed manner to the prescribed authority for provisional registra¬ 
tion under this Regulation. 

(2) If the said authority, after making such inquiries as it may con¬ 
sider necessary, is satisfied as to the bona fide intention of the person 
making the application, it may grant a provisional certificate of regis¬ 
tration on such person furnishing such security as it may consider 
necessary and shall specify in such certificate the class or classes of goods 
for the purpose of clause (II) of sub-section (3) of section 7. 

(3) Every person who has been granted a provisional certificate of 
registration under this section shall, for so long as such certificate is 
in force, be liable to pay tax under this Regulation. 

(4) A provisional certificate of registration granted under this sec¬ 
tion shall be in force for such period as may be specified therein and the 
provisions of sub-sections (4), (7) and (8) of section 12 shall, so far as 
may be, apply to any such certificate of registration. 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


129 


Sec. 1] 


15. (I) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay tax under section 
5, carry on business as a dealer unless he has applied for a special certi¬ 
ficate of registration. 

(2) Every dealer required by sub-section (1) to be registered shall 
make application in this behalf in the prescribed manner to the pres¬ 
cribed authority. 

(3) If the prescribed authority is satisfied that the application for spe¬ 
cial certificate is in order, it shall, in accordance with such rules as may 
be prescribed, grant a special certificate to the applicant in the prescrib¬ 
ed form: 

Provided that the special certificate shall not specify the class of 
goods for the purposes of clause (II) of sub-section (3) of section 7. 

(4) The prescribed authority may from time to time amend any special 
certififcate in accordance with the information furnished, under section 26 
or otherwise received by him. 

(5) The provisions of sub-section (3) of section 4 and sub-sections (6) 
and (7) of section 12 shall apply for registration under this section. 

16. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Regulation, when 
the certificate of registration of any dealer is cancelled on the ground of 
discontinuance of his business, the price of all goods purchased by him 
on the strength of his certificate of registration Bhall be included in his 
taxable turnover. 

17. (1) Tax payable under this Regulation shall be paid in the manner 
hereinafter provided at such intervals as may be prescribed. 

(2) Such dealers as may be required so to do by the Commissioner 
by notice served in the prescribed manner and every registered dealer 
shall furnish such returns 'of the total turnover of the period to which 
such returns relate, in such manner, by such date, and to such autho¬ 
rity, as may be prescribed. 

(3) Before any registered dealer furnishes the returns required by 
sub-section (2), he shall pay into a Government treasury or in such other 
manner as may be prescribed the full amount of tax due from him under 
this Regulation according to such returns, and shall furnish along with 
the returns a receipt from such treasury showing the payment of such 
amount, 

(4) If any dealer discovers any omission or other error in any return 
furnished by him, he may at any time before the date prescribed for the 
furnishing of the next return by him furnish a revised return, and if the 
revised return shows a greater amount of tax to be due than was shown 
in the original return, it shall be accompanied by a receipt showing pay¬ 
ment in the manner provided in sub-section (3) of the extra amount: 

Provided that no such revised return shall be considered as such and 
it shall not be taken into consideration if the assessing authority is satis¬ 
fied that the return originally furnished was with intention to delay the 
payment of tax due in time, or with intent to defraud the Government of 
Its revenue. 


Special 

registra¬ 

tion. 


Taxable 
turnover 
where 
certificate 
of regis¬ 
tration is 
cancelled. 

Payment 
of tax 
anfi re¬ 
turns. 



Special 
mode ot 
recovery. 


I30 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part II— 


(5) With a view to encourage prompt payment of tax, the Adminis¬ 
trator may prescribe rates of remissions or rebates in respect thereof 
in accordance with such principles as may be prescribed, 

(6) (a) The amount of tax assessed or reassessed for any period 
under section 20 or section 21 less any sum already paid by the dealer in 
respect of such period, and 

■(b) the amount of penalty, if any, levied under this Regulation, 

shall be paid by the dealer or by the person liable therefor into the 
appropriate Government treasury by such date as may be specified In 
the notice or order issued under this Regulation, being a date not earlier 
than sixty days from the date of the service of the notice or order: 

Provided that the Commissioner or any person appointed to assist him 
under sub-section (1) of section 3, may in respect of any particular dealer 
or person and for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the date of 
such payment, or allow him to pay the tax due or penalty, if any, or both 
by instalments, 

(7) (a) When a dealer is in default in making payment of the tax 
assessed or reassessed or of penalty imposed, the Commissioner may in 
his discretion direct that, in addition to the amount of arrears a sum not 
exceeding six per cent, thereon per annum by way of interest plus a 
penalty equal to the amount of such interest shall be recovered from the 
dealer. 

(b) Any amount of tax or penalty which remains unpaid after the 
date specified in the notice for payment, or in the order of imposition of 
penalty, or after the extended date of payment and any instalments not 
duiy paid, shall be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue. 

(8) The Administrator may, hv general or special order published 
in the Official Gazette, authorise any officer not below the rank of a S'ales 
Tax Officer, to exercise, for the purpose of effecting recovery of the 
amount of tax or penalty due from any de tier or person under this 
Regulation, the powers of the Collector under the Dadra and Nagar 

Haveli Land Revenue Administration Regulation, 1971, to recover the 0 0 f 1971 
dues as arrears of land revenue. 

18. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law or contract 
to the contrary, the Commissioner may, at any time, or from time to 
time, by notice in writing, a copy of which shall be forwarded to the 
dealer at his last address known to the Commissioner, require,— 

(a) any person from whom any amount of money is due or may 
become due to the dealer who has failed to pay the amount of tax 
due or penalty imposed under this Regulation, or 

(b) any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for 
or on account of such dealer, 

pay to the Commissioner, either forthwith upon the money becoming 
due or being held or at, or within, the time specified in the notice (but 
oot before the money becomes due or is held as aforesaid), so much of 
the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by a dealer in respect 





Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


131 


of the arrears of tax and penalty, or both, of the whole of the money 
when it is equal to or less than that amount. 

Explanation .—For the purpose of this sub-section the amount of 
money held due to a dealer from, or money held for or on account of a 
dealer by, any person, shall be calculated after deducting therefrom 
such claims, if any, lawfqlly subsisting a s may have fallen due for pay¬ 
ment by such dealer to such person. 

(2) The Commissioner may a t any time, amend or revoke any such 
notice, or extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of the 
notice. 

(3) Any person making payment in complianre with a notice under 
this section shall be deemed to have made payment under the authority 
of the dealer,'and the receipt of the Commissioner shall constitute good 
and sufficient discharge of the liability of such person, to the extent of 
the amount referred to in the receipt. 

(4) Any person discharging any liability to the dealer after receipt 
of the notice referred to in this section shall be personally liable to the 
Commissioner to the extent of the liability discharged or to the extent 
of the liability of the dealer for tax and penalty whichever is less. 

(5) Where a person to whom a notice under this section is sent 
objects to it by a statement in wilting that the sum demanded or any 
part thereof is not due or payable to the dealer or that the amount held 
for, or on account of, the dealer is under genuine dispute, the Commis¬ 
sioner shall hold on enquiry and after giving a reasonable opportunity 
of being heard to such person and th e dealer, shall make such order as 
he thinks fit. 

(6) Any amount of money which a person is required to pay to the 
Commissioner or for which he is personally liable to the Commissioner 
under this section shall, if it remains unpaid, be recoverable as an arrear 
of land revenue. 


19. No person who is not a registered dealer shall collect in resp'ect 
of any sale by him of goods in'Dadra and Nagar Haveli any amount by 
way of tax under this Regulation and no registered dealer shall make 
any such collection except in accordance with this Regulation aqd the 
rules made thereunder. 


Collection 
of tax 
only by 
registered 
dealers. 


20. (1) The amount of tax due from a registered dealer shall be 
assessed separately for each year during which he is liable to pay the 
tax: 


Assess¬ 
ment of 
tax. 


Provided that, when such dealer fails to furnish any return as re¬ 
quired under sub-section (2) of section 17 relating to any period of any 
year, by the prescribed date and in the prescribed manner, the Commis¬ 
sioner may, if he thinks fit, assess the tax due from such dealer separate¬ 
ly for different parts of such year; 

Provided further that the Commissioner may, subject to such condi¬ 
tions as may be prescribed, and for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
assess the tax due from any dealer during a part of a year. 






132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Past n— 


(2) (a) The Commissioner, for the purpose of satisfying himself that 
the returns furnished by a dealer are correct and complete, may require 
the presence of the dealer if he thinks it necessary 'or the production 
of further evidence and shall serve on such dealer in the prescribed 
manner a notice requiring him, on a date and at a place specified there¬ 
in, either to attend and produce or cause to be produced all evidence on 
which such dealer relies in support of his returns, or to produce such 
evidence as is specified in the notice. 

(b) If the Commissioner is satisfied that th e returns furnished in 
respect of any period are correct and complete he shall assess the amount 
of tax due from the dealer on the basis of such returns. 

(c) If the Commissioner is not satisfied that the returns furnished in 
respect of any fferiod are correct and complete, he shall, after considering 
all the evidence which may be produced and after giving the dealer an 
opportunity of being heard, assess to the best of his judgment the amount 
of tax due from the dealer. 

(d) If a dealer fails to comply with the terms of any notice issued 
under clause (a) the Commissioner shall assess to the best of his judg¬ 
ment the amount of tax due from him. 

(3) If a dealer does not furnish return as required under sub-section 
(2) of section 17 in respect of any period by the prescribed date, the 
Commissioner may serve on the dealer in the prescribed manner a notice 
requiring him, on a date and at a place specified therein, either to attend 
and produce or cause to be produced such evidence as is specified in the 
notice, and after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard, assess to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax, if any, due 
from him. 

(4) In assessing the dealer under any of the clauses (b), (c) and (d) 
of sub-section (2), or sub-section (3), if the Commissioner hag reason 
to believe that the dealer has failed, without sufficient cause, to comply 
with the requirements of sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) or sub-section 
(4) of section 17, shall after giving such dealer a reasonable opportunity 
of being heard, direct him, either at the time of assessment or there¬ 
after, to pay by way of penalty in addition to the amount of tax assess¬ 
ed a sum not exceeding one and a half times the amount of tax so assessed. 

(5) (a) If the Commissioner has reason to believe that a dealer is 
liable to pay tax in respect of any period but has failed to apply fo r re¬ 
gistration within time as required by section 12, the Commissioner shall 
proceed to assess the amount of tax due from the dealer in respect of 
such period, and all subsequent periods, and for this purpose shall serve 
upon the dealer in the prescribed manner a notice requiring him to be 
present and produce or cause to be produced all evidence which he may 
possess or such evidence as is specified in the notice; in assessing the 
dealer in the manner referred to above a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard shall be given to him. 

(ib) If the dealer fails to comply with the terms of the notice issued 
under clause (a), the Commissioner may assess to the best of his judg¬ 
ment the amount of tax due from him. 



Sec, 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY ijj 


(c) In any of the assessments made under clause (a) or clause Ob), 
it the Commissioner has reasons to believe that the default in applying 
for registration within time was made without reasonable cause, he 
shall, after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, 
direct him, either at the time of assessment or thereafter, to pay by way 
of penalty, in addition to the amount of tax assessed, a sum not exceed¬ 
ing one and a half times that amount. 

(' 6) No assessment under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) shall be 
made after the expiry of four years, and no assessment under sub¬ 
section (5) shall be made after the expiry of six years, from the end of 
the year in respect of which, or part of which, such assessment is 
made: 

Provided that, where such assessment is made in consequence of 
order of revisional authority or of a Court, the period of four years or 
six years, as the case may be, shall be reckoned from the date of such 
order; 

Provided further that in computing the period of limitation laid down 
In this sub-section, any period during which assessment proceedings are 
stayed by an order or injunction of any Court or authority shall be 
excluded. 

(7) Any assessment made under this section shall be without pre¬ 
judice to any penalty which may be imposed under other provisions of 
this Regulation, or to any prosecution instituted for an offence under 
this Regulation. 

21. (1) If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any turnover 
of sales of any goods chargeable to tax under this Regulation, has in 
respect of any year escaped assessment, or has been under-assessed, 
or assessed at a lower rate, or that any deductions have been wrongly 
made, in an order of assessment made under section 20, then the Com¬ 
missioner may,— 

(a) where he has reason to believe that the dealer has con¬ 
cealed such sales or any material particulars relating thereto, or 
has knowingly furnished incorrect particulars of returns, at any 
time within eight years, and 

(b) in any other case, at any time within five years of the end 
of the period to which such turnover or deductions relate, 

serve on the dealer liable to pay tax a notice requiring him, on a date and 
at a place specified therein, either to attend or produce or cause to be 
produced such evidence as may be specified in the notice, and may 
proceed to assess or reassess the amount of tax due from such dealer, 
and accordingly the other provisions of this Regulation and the rules 
made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply as if the notice were 
a notice referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 20: 

Provided that the amount of tax shall be assessed at the rates at 
which it would have been liable to tax had there been no under¬ 
assessment or escapement or assessment at a lower rate, but after 
making deductions, if any, admissible under this Regulation during the 
period to which the turnover relates, 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall apply to any proceeding, 
including any notice issued, under section 20, 


Assess¬ 
ment and 
reassess¬ 
ment 0 f 
tax. 



Refu nd. 


Accounts. 


34 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part H— 


( 3 ) Any assessment or reassessment made under this section shall 
be without prejudice to any penalty imposed, or to any prosecution 
instituted, for an offence under this Regulation. 

22 . (1) The Commissioner shall, in the prescribed manner, refund 
to the dealer any amount of tax or penalty paid by such dealer in 
excess of the amount due from him under this Regulation or unduly 
paid by him. The refund may arise from an order of assessment or 
from an order passed in appeal, revision or review under section 31, 
or reference under section 33, or from an order passed in respect of 
payment unduly made. 

( 2 ) (a) Where any declared goods referred to in section 14 of the 
Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 are sold by a dealer in the course of inter¬ 
state trade or commerce and such dealer shows to the satisfaction of the 
Commissioner that a tax under this Regulation has been levied in res¬ 
pect of any earlier sale of such goods made within Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli then an amount equal to the tax so levied shall be refunded to 
such dealer in such manner, and subject to such conditions as may be 
prescribed. 

(b) On receipt of the application for refund referred to above the 
Commissioner shall, after verifying the claim, make an order either 
granting or rejecting the application wholly or in part: 

Provided that no order rejecting the refund or granting the same in 
part shall be passed unless the dealer is given an opportunity of being 
heard. 

(c) If the refund is granted it shall be refunded in the same manner 
as it is prescribed for refund referred to in sub-section ( 1 ). 

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (I) or sub¬ 
section (2), the Commissioner shall adjust the amount due to be 
refunded under sub-section ( 1 ) or sub-sectiion (2) towards the recovery 
of any amount due from the dealer on the date of adjustment and 
shall then refund the balance, if any. 

(4) Nothing in sub-section (f) or sub-section (2) shall be deemed 
to empower the Commissioner to amend, vary or rescind any assess¬ 
ment or to amend, vary or rescind any order passed in appeal, revision, 
or review under section 31, or reference under section 33 or to Confer 
on a dealer any relief in addition to what he is entitled under the pro¬ 
visions of this Regulation or section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 
1956. 

23. Every registered dealer or other dealer on whom a notice has 
been served to furnish returns under sub-section (2) of section 17 
shall keep a true account of the value of goods bought, and sold by 
him and if the Commissioner considers that such account is not suffi¬ 
ciently clear and intelligible to enable him to make a proper check of 
the returns referred to in that sub-section he may require such dealer 
by notice in writing to keep such accounts (including records of sales) 
as may be prescribed. 


74 of 1956 


74 of 1956 



Sec. 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 13 $ 


24. ( 1 ) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions as may 
be prescribed, require any dealer— 

(a) to produce before him any accounts, registers or documents, 

and 

(b) to furnish any information, relating to the stock of goods 
of, purchases, sales or deliveries of goods by, the dealer or relating 
to any other matter, as may be deemed to be necessary for the 
purpose of this Regulation. 

(2) All accounts, registers and documents relating to the stocks of 
goods of, or purchases, sales and deliveries of goods by, and all goods 
kept in any place of business of, any dealer, shall, at all reasonable 
times, be open to inspection by the Commissioner. 

(3) If the Commissioner has reason to suspect that any dealer is 
attempting to evade payment of any tax under this Regulation he 
may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, seize such accounts, regis¬ 
ters or documents of the dealer as may be necessary, and shall grant 
a receipt for the same and shall retain the same only for so long as 
may be necessary in connection with any proceeding under this Regu¬ 
lation or for a prosecution. 

(4) For the purposes of sub-section (2) or sub-section the 

Commissioner may enter and search any place of business of any 
dealer, or any other place where the Commissioner has reason to 
believe that the dealer keeps or is for the time being keeping any 
accounts, registers or documents of his business: 

Provided that no residential premises shall be entered into and 
searched by the Commissioner, except on the authority of a search- 
warrant issued by a magistrate having jurisdiction over the area. 

25. Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may be prescribed, 
the Commissioner may, by order in writing, delegate any of his powers 
under this Regulation except those under sub-section (2) of section 35 
to any person appointed under sub-section (!) of section 3 to assist him. 

26. If any dealer to whom the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 
17 apply,— 

(a) sells or otherwise disposes of his business or any part of 
his business or any place of business, or effects or comes to know 
of any other change in the ownership of the business, 

(b) discontinues his business or changes his place of business 
or opens a new place of business, or 

(c) changes the name or nature of his business or effects any 
change In the class or classes of goods in which he carries on hi”; 
business and which is or are specified in his certificate of 
registration, 

he shall within the prescribed time inform the prescribed authority 
accordingly, and if any such dealer dies, his legal representative shall 
in like manner, inform the said authority. 


Power to 
call for 
informa¬ 
tion, etc., 
to search 
and to 
seize docu¬ 
ments 
etc, 


Delegation 
of Com¬ 
missioner’s 
powers. 


Informa¬ 
tion re¬ 
garding 
changes 

of 

business. 



136 the GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Past II— 

27- (1) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Regulation, dies 
then,— 

(a) if the business carried on by the dealer Is continued after 
his death by his legal representative or any other person, such 
legal representative or other person, shall be liable to pay the tax 
due from such dealer under this Regulation; 

(b) if the business carried oh by the dealer is discontinued 
after his death, his legal representative shall be liable to pay out 
of the estate of the deceased, to the extent to which the estate is 
capable of meeting the charge, the tax (including any penalty) 
due from such dealer under this Regulation, 

whether such tax (including any penalty) has been assessed before his 
death but has remained unpaid, or is assessed after his death. 

(2) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Regulation is a 
Hindu undivided family, and the joint family property is partitioned 
amongst the various members or groups of members, then each mem¬ 
ber or group of members and the legal representative of any such 
member who is deceased, notwithstanding such partition shall be joint¬ 
ly and severally liable to pay the tax (including any penalty) due 
from the dealer under this Regulation up to the time of the partition, 
whether such tax (including any penalty) has been assessed before 
partition but has remained unpaid, or is assessed after partition. 

(3) Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Regulation is a firm, 
or other association of persons, and such firm or association of persons 
is partitioned or dissolved, as the case may be, then every person who 
was a partner or member, and the legal representative of any such 
person or member who is deceased shall, notwithstanding such parti¬ 
tion or dissolution, be jointly and severally liable for the payment of 
tax, penalty or other amount payable under this Regulation by such 
firm or association of persons, whether such tax including any penalty 
has been assessed before such partition or dissolution but has remained 
unpaid, or is assessed after such partition or dissolution. 

(4) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Regulation, trans¬ 
fers or otherwise disposes of his business in whole or in part, or 
effects any change in the ownership thereof, in consequence of which 
he is succeeded in the business or part thereof by any other person, the 
dealer and the person succeeding shall jointly and severally be liable 
to pay the tax (including any penalty) due from the dealer under this. 
Regulation up to the time of such transfer, disposal or change, whether 
such tax (including any penalty) has been assessed before such trans¬ 
fer, disposal or change but has remained unpaid, or is assessed there¬ 
after. 

(5) Where the dealer, liable to pay tax under this Regulation,— 

(a) is the guardian of a ward on whose behalf the business is 

carried on by the guardian, or 

(b) is trustee who carries on the business under a trust for a. 

beneficiary, 


wpeetal 
provision 
regarding 
liability in 
certain 
cases. 



Set. l] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 137 


then, if the guardianship or trust is terminated, the ward or, as the case 
may be, the beneficiary shall be liable to pay the tax (including any 
penalty) due from the dealer up to the time of termination df the 
guardianship or trust, whether such tax (including any penalty) has 
been assessed before the termination of the guardianship or trust, but 
has reniained unpaid, or is assessed thereafter. 

(6) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Regulation is 
succeeded in the business by any person in the manner described irl 
clause (a) of subjection (1) or in sub-section (4), then, such persoii 
shall be liable to pay tax on the sales of goods made by him on and 
after the date of such succession, and shall (unless he already holds 
a certificate of registration) within thirty days thereof apply for 
registration: 

Provided that, where such person resells any goods purchased by 
the dealer while carrying on business before such succession, he shall 
be entitled to such deductions in respect thereof as are permissible 
under sub-section (3) of section 7, had the resale been effected by the 
dealer himself. 

28. (1) Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Regulation is an 
individual person and he happens to expire, the tax payable under this 
Regulation by such individual person, for the period up to the date of his 
death, shall be assessed as if he was alive and all the provisions of this 
Regulation shall apply accordingly. 


(2) Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Regulation is a 
Hindu undivided family, a firm, or other association of persons, and 
such family, firm, or association of persons is partitioned or dissolved, 
as the case may be, the tax payable under this Regulation by such 
family, firm or association of persons, for the period up to the date of 
such partition or dissolution, shall be assessed as if no such partition 
or dissolution had taken place and all the provisions of this Regulation 
shall apply accordingly. 

29. Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, where any firm 
Is liable to pay tax (including any penalty) under this Regulation, the 
firm and each of the partners of the firm shall be jointly and severally 
liable for such payment: 

Provided that, where any such partner retires from the firm, he 
shall be liable to pay the tax and the penalty (if any) remaining un¬ 
paid at the time of his retirement, and any tax (including any penalty) 
due up to the date of retirement though unassessed at that date, 

30, Save as is provided in section 33, no assessment made and no 
order passed under this Regulation or the rules made thereunder by 
the Commissioner or any person appointed under sub-section (I) of 
section 3 to assist him shall be called in question in any Civil Court, 
and save as is provided in section 31 no appeal or application for 
revision or review shall lie against any such assessment or order. 


Liability 
to tax, 
and 
assess¬ 
ment of 
a dealer 
after his 
death, of 
a Hindu 
undivided 
family 
after its 
partition 
of a Arm 
or associa¬ 
tion of 
persons, 
after its 
dissolu¬ 
tion, etc. 


Liability 
of firms 


Bar to 
certain 
proceed¬ 
ings. 



Appeal, 
revision 
and re : 


Non-ap- 

pealable 

orders, 


138 the gazette op india extraordinary [part ii_ 


31. (1) Any dealer may in the prescribed manner appeal to the pres¬ 
cribed authority against any assessment or reassessment within sixty 
days from the date of communication of the order appealed against: 

Provided that the said authority may entertain the appeal after the 
bipiry of the said period of sixty days, if it is satisfied that the appli- 
bant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time: 

Provided further that no appeal shall be entertained by the said 
authority unless it is satisfied that such amount of the tax as the appli¬ 
cant may admit to be due from him has been paid. 

( 2 ) Subject to such rules of procedure as may be prescribed, the 
appellate authority, in disposing of any appeal under sub-section ( 1 ) 
may- 

fa) confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assessment, or 

(b) set aside the assessment and direct the assessing authority 

to make a fresh assessment after such further inquiry as rnay be 

directed. 

(3) Subject to such rules as may be prescribed and for reasons to 
be recorded in writing, the Commissioner, upon application or of his 
own motion, may revise any assessment made or order passed under 
this Regulation or the rules made thereunder by a person appointed 
under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3 to assist him as aforesaid and the 
Administrator may, in like manner, revise any order passed by the 
Commissioner: 

Provided that before rejecting any application for the revision of 
any such order the Commissioner or the Administrator, as the case 
may be, shall consider it and shall record reasons for such rejection: 

Provided further that no application for revision shall lie to the 
Commissioner in respect of any assessment if an appeal lies under 
sub-section (I) to the prescribed authority in respect of such assess¬ 
ment. 

(4) Subject to such rules as may be made, any assessment made or 
order passed under this Regulation or the rules made thereunder by 
any person appointed under sub-section (1) of section 3 or by the 
prescribed authority may be reviewed by that person or authority, as 
tile case may be, upon an application or of his or its own motion, as the 
case may be. 

(5) Before any order is passed under this section which is likely 
to affect any person adversely, such person shall be given a reasonable 
opportunity of being heard. 

Explanation.— In this section "assessment” includes imposition of 
penalty. 

32. No appeal and no application for revision shall lie against— 

( 2 ) a notice issued under this Regulation calling upon a dealer 
for assessment or asking a dealer to show cause as to why he 
should not be prosecuted for an offence under this Regulation, or 

( 2 ) an order pertaining to the seizure or retention of account 
books, registers and other documents, or 



SEC. 1 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 139 


(3) an order sanctioning a prosecution under this Regulation. 

33. (1) Within sixty days from the passing by the Administrator of 
any order under sub-section (3) of section 31 affecting any liability of 
any dealer to pay tax under this Regulation, such dealer may, by 
application in writing, and accompanied by a fee of one hundred 
rupees, require the Administrator to refer to the Court any question 
of law arising out of such order. 

(2) If, for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Administrator 
refuses to make such reference, the applicant may, within thirty days 
of such refusal, either— 

(a) withdraw his application (and if he does so, the fee paid 

shall be refunded), or 

(b) apply to the Court against such refusal. 

(3) If upon the receipt of an application under clause (b) 'of sub¬ 
section (2), the Court is not satisfied of the correctness of the Adminis¬ 
trator’s decision, it may require the Administrator to state the case and 
refer it, and on the receipt of such requisition, the Administrator shall 
state and refer the case accordingly. 

(4) If the Court is not satisfied that the statements in a case referred 
under this section are sufficient to enable it to determine the question 
raised, thereby, it may refer the case back to the Administrator to 
make such additions thereto or alterations therein as the Court may 
direct in that behalf. 

(5) The Court upon hearing any such case shall decide the question 
of law raised therein, and shall deliver its judgment thereon containing 
the grounds on which such decision is founded, and shall send a copy 
of its judgment to the Administrator who shall pass such orders as are 
necessary to dispose of the case conformably to such judgment. 

( 6 ) Where a reference is made to the Court under this section, the 
costs shall be in the discretion of the Court. 

(7) The payment of the amount, if any, of tax due in accordance 
with the order of the Administrator in respect of which an application 
has been made under sub-section ( 1 ) shall not be stayed pending the 
disposal of such application or any reference made in consequence 
thereof, but if such amount is reduced as the result of such reference 
the excess tax paid shall be refunded in accordance with the provisions 
of section 22 . 

( 8 ) In this section "Court” means the High Court. 

34. (I) The Commissioner or any person appointed to assist him 
under sub-section ( 1 ) of section 3 shall, for the purposes of this Regu¬ 
lation have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court under the 
law relating to Civil Procedure for the time being in force in Dadra 
and Nagar Haveli, when trying a suit, in respect of the following 
matters, namely: — 

(a) enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him 

on oath or affirmation; 


Statement 
of case 
to Court 


Powers of 
Commis¬ 
sioner, 
etc., in 
certain 
matters. 




Offences 
and penal¬ 
ties. 


I 40 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [Part ii— 


(b) compelling the production of documents; and 

(c) issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses; 

and Any proceeding under this Regulation before the Commissioner or 
any person appointed to assist him under sub-section (I) of section 3 
shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of 
sections 193 and 228, and for the purposes of section 196, of the Indian 
Penal Code. 

(2) Subject to any ruled made in this behalf, any authority referred 
to in sub-section (1) may impound and retain in its custody for such 
period as it thinks fit, any books of account or other documents pro¬ 
duced before it in any proceedings under this Regulation: 

Provided that a person appointed to assist the Commissioner under 
sub-section (1) of section 3 shall not— 

(a) impound any books of account or other documents with¬ 
out recording his reasons for so doing, or 

(b) retain in his custody any such books or documents for a 
period exceeding thirty days without obtaining the approval of 
the Commissioner therefor. 

35. ( 1 ) Whoever— 


(a) carries on business as dealer in contravention of sub¬ 
section (1) of section 12; or 

(b) fails to furnish the security demanded under sub-section 
(5) of section 12; or 

(c) fails, without sufficient cause, to furnish any return as 
required by sub-section (2) of section 17 or furnishes a false return; 
or 

(d) being a registered dealer, falsely represents when pur¬ 
chasing any class of goods, that goods of such class are covered 
by his certificate of registration; or 

(e) not being a registered dealer, falsely represents when 
purchasing goods that he is a registered dealer; or 

(/) contravenes the provisions of section 19; or 

(g) fails, when required so to do under section 23 to keep 
prescribed accounts or records of sales; or 

(h) refuses to comply with any requirement made of him under 
sub-section (1) of section 24; or 

( 1 ) knowingly produces incorrect accounts, registers or docu¬ 
ments, or knowingly furnishes incorrect information; or 

(j) obstructs any officer making an inspection or a search or 
a seizure under section 24; or 


45 of i 860 . 


(7c) neglects to furnish any information required by section 26, 




SEC. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


141 


shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which may extend to 
six months or with fine or with both, and when the offence is a conti- 
nuing one, with a daily fine not exceeding fifty rupees during the period 
of the continuance of the offence: 

Provided that no prosecution for an offence against this Regulation 
shall be instituted in respect of the same facts in respect of which a 
penalty has been imposed under section 20 or section 36. 

(2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence under this 
Regulation or under the rules made thereunder except with the pre¬ 
vious sanction of the Commissioner, and no Court inferior to that of 
a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any such offence. 

(3) All offences punishable under this Regulation shall be cogniz¬ 
able and bailable. 

36. ( 1 ) If the Commissioner or any person appointed under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 3 to assist him in the course of any proceedings 
under this Regulation is satisfied that a dealer has maintained false or 
incorrect accounts with a view to suppressing his sales, purchases or 
stock of goods, has concealed any particulars of his sales or purchases 
or has furnished to, or produces before, any authority under this 
Regulation or the rules made thereunder, any account, return or 
information which is false or incorrect in any material particular, the 
Commissioner or such other person may, after giving the dealer a 
reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay, by way of 
penalty, in addition to the tax to which he is assessed or is liable to be 
assessed, an amount not exceeding one and a half times the amount of 
tax which would have been avoided if the accounts or figures or parti¬ 
culars were accepted as correct. 

(2) If any person purchasing goods is guilty of any offence under 
clause (d) or clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section 35 the authority 
which granted to him or, as the case may be, is competent to grant to 
him a certificate of registration under this Regulation, may, after 
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by order in writ¬ 
ing, impose upon him by way of penalty a sum not exceeding one and 
a half times the tax which would have been levied under this Regula¬ 
tion in respect of the sale to him of the goods, if the offence had not 
been committed. 

37, If the Commissioner is satisfied that any person has acted in 
contravention of the provisions of section 19, he may, after giving such 
person a reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay, by 
way of penalty, a sum not exceeding one and a half times the tax 
collected in contravention of the said provisions. 


38. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed the Com¬ 
missioner may accept from any person alleged to have committed an 
offence under sub-section (1) of section 35 or under any rules made 
under this Regulation either before or after the commencement of any 
proceedings against such person in respect of such offence, by way of 
composition for such offence, a sum not exceeding five thousand 
rupees or where the offence alleged to have been committed is under 
clause (a) or clause (c) of that sub-section, not exceeding double the 


Penalty 
for con¬ 
cealment 
of sales 
etc. 


Penalty 
for contra¬ 
vening 
provisions 
regarding 
collection 
of tax by 
dealers. 
Compoun¬ 
ding of 
offences. 




142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II— 


Setting 
up of 
posts and 
barriers. 


Indemnity. 


Returns 
etc., to be 
confiden¬ 
tial. 


amount of the tax which would have been payable by such person had 
he complied with the provisions of this Regulation, whichever is 
greater. 

(2) On payment in full of such sum as may be determined by the 
Commissioner under sub-section ( 1 ) — 

(a) no proceedings shall be commenced against such person 
as aforesaid; and 

(b) if any proceedings have been already commenced against 
such person as aforesaid, such proceedings shall not be further 
proceeded with. 

35). (1) The Administrator may, by notification in the Official 
Gazette, set up check-posts or barriers at any place in Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli with a view to preventing evasion of sales tax and other dues 
payable under this Regulation. 

(2) Every person transporting such goods as may be notified shall, 
at any check-post 'or barrier referred to in sub-section ( 1 ), file before 
such officer as may be authorised by the Administrator in this behalf 
a declaration in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed. 

(3) The officer authorised by the Administrator under sub-section 
(2) or any other officer who may be authorised in this behalf may for 
the purpose of satisfying himself that the provisions of sub-section (2) 
are not being contravened, and subject to such restrictions as may be 
prescribed, intercept and search any vehicle which may be suspected of 
contravening the said provisions. 

40. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against 
any employee of the Government for anything which is in good faith 
done or intended to be done under this Regulation or the rules made 
thereunder. 

41. (1) All particulars contained in any statement made, return 
furnished or accounts or documents produced in accordance with this 
Regulation or in any record of evidence given in the course of any 
proceedings under this Regulation, other than proceedings before a 
Criminal Court, shall, save as provided in sub-section (3), be treated 
as confidential, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained 
in any other law relating to evidence, n'o Court shall, save as afore¬ 
said, be entitled to require any employee of the Government to pro¬ 
duce before it such statement, return, accounts, documents or record or 
any part thereof, or to give evidence before it in respect thereof. 

(2) If, save as provided in sub-section (3), any employee of the 
Government discloses any of the particulars referred to in sub-section 
0), he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 
six months, and shall also be liable to fine, 

(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the disclosure- 

fa) of any of the particulars referred to in sub-section (1) for 
the purpose of an investigation or a prosecution under this Regu- 45 of i 860 , 
lation or under the Indian Penal Code or under any other enact¬ 
ment in force; or 




Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY __ 3 

(b) of such facts, to an- officer of the Central Government or the 
Government of any State or Union territory, as may be necessary, 
for verification of such facts or for the purpose of enabling that Gov¬ 
ernment to levy or realise any tax imposed by it. 

42. (I) The Administrator may, by notification in the Official Gazette, P°^er to 
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Regulation. mles 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the fore¬ 
going power, such rules may provide for— 

(a) the manufactures or manufacturing processes not included 
in the scope of definition of “manufacture” contained in clause (fl) 
of section 2; 

(b) the period of return of- goods by purchasers under clause 
(n) of section 2; 

(c) the further period after the date of expiry of three conse¬ 
cutive years referred to in sub-section (3) of section 4; 

(d) the particulars to be contained in a declaration under clause 
(II) of sub-section (3) of section 7, the form of such declaration, the 
authority from which such form shall be obtainable and the manner 
in which such declaration is to be furnished; 

(e) the other sales turnover which may be deducted from a 
dealer’s gross turnover in computing his taxable turnover as defined 

' in section 7; 

(f) the authority to which applications for registration under 
sections 12, 13, 14 and 15 shall be made; 

(g) the procedure for, and other matters incidental to, the regis¬ 
tration of dealers and the granting of- certificates of registration, and 
the forms of such certificates under sections 12, 13, 14 and 15; 

(h ) the intervals at which, and the manner in which, the tax 
under this Regulation shall be payable under section 17; 

(i) the returns to be furnished under sub-section (2) of section 
17 and dates by which and the authority to which, such returns 
shall be furnished; 

( j ) the date by which returns for any period are to be furnished 
and the procedure to be followed for assessment under section 20; 

(k) the manner in which refunds under section 22 shall be made; 

(l) the accounts and forms thereof required by section 23; 

(m) the conditions under Which the production of accounts or 
documents or the furnishing of information may be required under 
sub-section (1) of section 24; 

(n) the restrictions and conditions subject to which the Com¬ 
missioner may delegate his powers under section 25; 

(o) the authority to which Information shall be furnished under 
section 26; 

(p) the manner in which, and the authority to which, appeals 
against assessment may be preferred under section 31; 



144 


THE GAZETTE Of INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Par* 11— 


Savings. 


Power to 
remove 
diffi¬ 
culties. 


Extension 

of 

Central 
Act 74 of 
1958 to 
Dadra and 
Nagar 
Haveli, 


(q) the procedure for, and other matters (including fees) inci¬ 
dental to, the disposal of appeals and applications for revision and 
review under section 31; 

(r) the conditions under which offences may be compounded 
under section 38; 

(s) the manner in which, and the time within which, applica¬ 
tions shall be made, information furnished and notices served, under 
this Regulation; 

(t) any other matter required to be prescribed. 

(3) Any such rules may provide that a breach thereof shall be punish¬ 
able with fine not exceeding five hundred rupees, and when the offence 
is a continuing one, with a daily fine not exceeding twenty-five rupees 
during the continuance of the offence. 

43. Nothing in this Regulation or the rules made thereunder shall be 
deemed to impose, or authorise the imposition of, a tax on any sale or 
purchase of any goods when such sale or purchase takes place— 

( i ) in the course of inter-State trade or commerce; 

(ii) outside Dadra and Nagar Haveli; or 

(iii) in the course of import of the goods into, or export of goods 
out of the territory of India. 

Explanation. —Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1950, 
shall apply for determining whether or not a particular sale or purchase 
takes place in the manner indicated in clause ( i ), clause (ii) or clause 
(iii). 

44. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this 
Regulation, the Administrator may, by order published in the Official 
Gazette, as occasion requires, make such provisions not inconsistent with 
the provisions of this Regulation as appears to him to be necessary or 
expedient for the removal of that difficulty: 

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiration of one 
year from the commencement of this Regulation. 

45. On and from the commencement of this Regulation, the Central 
Sales Tax Act, 1956 as it is generally in force in the territories to which 
it extends, shall extend to and come into force in, Dadra and Nagar 
Haveli. 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
[See section 7(1) (a)] 

1. Motor vehicles including chassis of motor vehicles, spare parts of 
motor vehicles including batteries, motor tyres and tubes including flap*. 

2, Motor cycles and cycle combinations, motor scooters, motorettes 
and tyres, tubes and spare parts of motor cycles, motor scooters and 
motorettes. 


74 of 1958. 




SEC. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


145 


3. Refrigerators and air-conditioning plants and component parts 
thereof. 

4. Wireless reception instruments and apparatus, radios and radio 
gramophones, transistors, electrical valves, accumulators, amplifiers and 
loud-speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof. 

5. Cinematographic equipment including cameras, projectors and 
sound recording and reproducing equipment, recording tape, lenses, films 
and parts and accessories required for use therewith excluding films 
certified by the Central Board of Film Censors to be predominantly edu¬ 
cational in nature- 

6. Photographic and other cameras and enlargers, lenses, film and 
plates, paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use 
therewith. 

7. All clocks, time-pieces and watches and parts thereof. 

8. Iron and steel safes and almirahs. 

9. All arms including rifles, revolvers, pistols, and ammunition for the 
same. 

10. Cigarette cases and lighters. 

11. Tape recorders, dictaphone and other similar apparatus for record¬ 
ing sound and spare parts thereof. 

12. Sound transmitting equipment including telephones and loud¬ 
speakers and spare parts thereof. 

13. Typewriters, tabulating machines, calculating machines and dupli¬ 
cating machines and parts thereof, 

14. Binoculars, telescopes and opera glasses. 

15. Gramophones and component parts thereof. 

16. Gramophone records. 

17. Domestic electrical appliances including fans and fluorescent 
lighting tubes other than torches, torch cell s and filament lighting 
bulbs. 

18. Perfumes and cosmetics excluding hair oils, soaps, tooth brushes 
and dentifrices. 

19. Vacuum flasks of all kinds including thermos flasks. 

20. Iron and steel furniture. 

21. Sheets, cushions, pillows, mattresses and other articles made of 
foam rubber or plastic foam or other synthetic foam. 

22. Foreign liquor other than Indian made foreign liquor. 

23. Motor spirit which is usually known as petrol, diesel oil, aviation 
spirit and aviation turbine fuel. 

24. Table cutlery including knives, forks and spoons. 

25. Carpets and durries (except made by khadi or handloom). 

26. Ivory articles, including articles inlaid with ivory. 

27. Ladies handbags and vanity bags. 

28. Playing cards. 

29. Furs and articles of personal and domestic use made therefrom, 

30. Crockery. 

31. Leather goods other than footwear and sports p^ods. 



146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 


[Part II- 


32. Adrema machines. 

33. Aeroplanes and their spare parts. 

34. Sanitary fittings (other than pipes). 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
[See section 7(1) (c) and section 101 
Tax-fhee goods 

1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice. 

2. Flour including atta, maida, suji and bran (except when sold In 
sealed containers). 

3. Bread. 

4. Meat (except when sold in sealed containers). 

5. Fish (except when sold in sealed containers). 

6. Fresh eggs. 

7. Livestock including poultry, 

8. Vegetables, green and dried (excluding dehydrated vegetables), 
vegetable seeds and plants (other than medicinal preparations), except 
when sold in sealed containers. 

9. Fresh fruits. 

10. Sugar, gur, molasses and sugarcane. 

11. Salt. 

12. Fresh milk, whole or separated and milk products made exclu¬ 
sively out of milk, without addition or admixture of any other Ingre¬ 
dients. 

13. Ghee. 

14. Dahi, butter and khoa- 

15. All varieties of cotton, woollen, rayon or artificial silk fabrics, 

16. Cotton yarn including cotton thread. 

17. Newsprint and white printing paper. 

18. School exercise and drawing books. 

19. All books and periodicals. 

20. Fuel wood and charcoal. 

21. Agricultural implements. 

22. Matches. 

23. Cattle feed, including fodder and poultry feed and pig feed, 

24. Electrical energy. 

25. Fertilizers and manures including oil-cakes. 

26. Water but not aerated water or mineral water, or water sold in 
bottles or sealed containers. 

27. Raw wool. 

28. Tobacco and all its products. 

29. Country made shoes (Juties), hand-made utensils, cane and bam¬ 
boo handicrafts and earthen-wares made by Khumbharas, when manu¬ 
factured without the use of power and at a place other than a factory as 



SEC. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTBAORDINABY 


14 ? 


63 of 1948. defined in the Factories Act, 1948 and sold either by the maker himself 
or by any member of his family or by a co-operative society consisting 
wholly of the makers of such articles. 

30. Achar and murraba except when sold in sealed containers. 

31. Charkha, takli and charkha accessories. 

32. Slate, slate pencils, takhties, black ink used for takhties, writing 
chalks, crayons, foot rules of the type used in schools, kalams (pens 
used for takhties). 

33. Betel leaves, betel nuts, kat and edible lime. 

34. Durries of the size not exceeding 2.70 sq. meters in extent. 

35. Bardana including hessian cloth, iron strips and wood and tin 
used in packing, the sale of which is incidental to dealing in any of the 
other goods mentioned in this Schedule. 

36. Cotton padding. 

37. Articles and utensils made of Kansa (bell metal)._ 

38. Bullock carts, and spare parts thereof. 

39. Chillies, chilly powder, tamarind and turmeric (whole or powder¬ 
ed), except when sold in sealed containers. 

40. Coconut in shell and separated kernel of coconut, other than 
copra. 

41. Cooked food and non-alcoholic drinks served at any one time at 
a price not more than three rupees per person, for consumption at or 
outside any restaurant, hotel, refreshment room or boarding establish¬ 
ment which is not a shop or establishment conducted primarily for the 
sale of sweetmeats, confectionery, cakes, biscuits or pastries. 

42. Farsan. 

43. Films certified by the Central Board of Film Censors to be of a 
predominantly educational nature. 

44. Flowers (excluding artificial flowers), 

45: Flower, fruit and Vegetable seeds; seeds of lucerne and other 
fodder grass; seeds of sun-hemp; bulbs; croms; rhizomes, suckers and 
tubers; budgrafts; cuttings; layers and seedlings; plants. 

46. Plantain leaves, patrawallas and dronas. 

47. Handloom fabrics of all varieties exclusive of handloom fabrics of 
pure silk, pile carpets, braids, borders, lace s and trimmings. 

48. "Khadi” and ready-made garments and other articles prepared 
from khadi. 

Explanation. —For the purpose of this entry “khadi” means any cloth 
woven on handloom in India from cotton, silk or woollen yarn hand-spun 
in India or from the mixture of any two of such yarns. 

49. Products of Village Industries a s defined in the Khadi and Village 

01 of 1953, Industries Commission Act, 1956, 43 ' 



148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY [PAM II— 

50. (i) Handloom and parts thereof. 

(ii) The following handloom accessories, namely: — 

(a) Rach. 

(b) Fani. 

(c) Cotton healds. 

(d) Shuttles. 

(e) Bobbins, 
tf) Pins. 

(g) Pickers. 

(in) The following handloom auxiliary machines, namely: — 

(a) Waging frames worked by hand. 

(b) Sectional drum type warping machine worked by hand 
and Y-shaped creel used therewith. 

( iv) The following attachment to handlooms, namely:— 

Wooden dobbies. 

51. Kumkum (including liquid kumkum). 

52. Mangal sutra with black glass beeds sold at a price not exceeding 
ten rupees each. 

53. Bangles of price not exceeding one rupee per pair. 

54. Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons. 

55. Stamp-papers and stamps sold by vendors duly authorised under 
the provisions of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the Court Fees Act, 
1870. 

5fj. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats and vehicles. 

57, Tractors. 

58. (a) The following plant protection appliances, namely:— 

(i) Sprayers and dusters, both manual and power driven. 

(ii) Low volume atomisers for dusting and spraying as single 
or combined units. 

(iii) Fog generators. 

(iv) Seed treating drums, both manual and power driven. -■ 

(u) Rat fumigation pumps. 

(vi) Soil injectors, 

(vii) Bird and animal scaring machines. 

(viii) Spare parts and accessories for hereinbefore described 
plant protection appliances, 

(b) The following pesticides for plant protection, namely: — 

(i) Insecticides and acaricides. 

(ii) Fungicides. 

(iii) Moluscides. 

(iv) Herbicides (weedicides). 

(v) Rodenticides. 

(vi) Germicides and bactericide, 

(ini) Fumigants- 


2 of 1890. 
7 of 1870. 




74 of 1950. 


Sec 1] Ttttt GAZETTIi OF INDIA EXTRAORDINARY 149 


59. Medicinal mixtures prepared by any registered pharmacy or dis¬ 
pensary under the prescription of a registered medical practitioner, 

60. Condoms and the advertising and publicity materials relating 
thereto. 

61. Mineral ores. 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
[See section 7(1) (b)] 

The goods specified in section 14 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 
as goods of special importance in inter-State trade or commerce, other 
than such goods, if any, included in the Second Schedule to this Regu¬ 
lation. 


N. SANJIVA REDDY, 
President. 


K. K. SUNDARAM, 
Secy, to the Govt, of India. 


PRINTED by THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MENTO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS. DELHI, 1078 






