REGISTERED NO, D . 222 


The Gazette 


of India 


सगाव 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No. 6 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


- 


- - - 


- - 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 
4th February , 1956 : - 


Issue 
No . 


Name and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


14 / S . R . O . 217, dated the 

27th January 1956 . 


Government of Ajmer 

(Local Self Gover 
ment Department). 


15 | S . R . O . 218 , dated the 

31st January 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 
(Revenue Division ) . 


Ajmer State Panchayat 

Election and Business ) Rules, 
( 1955. 
Exemption of Methyl alcohol, 

when imported , from pay 
ment of so much of customs 
duty in excess of standard 
rate . 


16 


S . R . O , 219, dated the 

319t January 1956 . 


Ministry of Law 


Fixation of hours during which 

the poll shall be taken in 
Gauhati Parliamentary Cons 

titutency in Aggam . 
Fixation of the price of tea for 
the purpose of Item 5 in 
the Second Schedule to the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 


17 | S . R . O . 220 , dated the 

Jet February , 1956 . 


Ministry of Commerce 

and Industry . 


18 


S . R . O . 221, dated the 

30th January , 1956 . 


Election 

India . 


Commission , 


Designation of Returning Officer 

for the Gadhs iga Council of 
States Conatituency in the 
State of Kutch . 


19 | $ . R . O . 222, dated the 

1st February , 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 


, 


Amendment made in the Sche 

dule to the Bengal Finance 
( Sales Tax ) Act, 1941, AS 
extended to the State of 
Delhi. 


20 | S . R . O . 258 , dated the 

3rd February , 1956 . 


Ministry of Finance 
1 (Revenuc Division ). 


Amendment made to the noti 

fication No. CER - 96 8 ( 1 ) 
55 , dated the oth December , 
1955 


Copies of the Gazette Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on indent to tho 
Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi. Indents should be submitted 90 as to reach the 
Manager within tep days of the date of issue of these Gazettes . 


( 145 ) 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


[ PART II - SEC 3 


- 


- 


PART II — Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India (other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authoritles 
(other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


Statutory Baulether than letecommiss 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 
New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 


S . R . O . 265 .- - It is hereby notified for general information that the disqualifica 
tions under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act , 1951 (XLIII of 1951 ) , incurred by the person whose name and 
address are given below , as notified under Notification No MT-CS /52 ( 1 ) , dated 
the 3rd April, 1954, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise 
of the powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act 
respectively . - 
Shri Umesh Lal Singh , Agartala, Tripura State 

[No MT- CSS / 56 ( 2 ) ] 

By Order , 
PS SUBRAMANIAN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1956 
S . R . O . 286 . — The following notifications issued by the Sikkım 
published for general information . - - 


Darbar are 


1 "Notification No 2385 /0 S 


It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed 
that the summonses and other processes issued by the High Court and all other 
Cıvıl and Revenue courts of Sikkim may be served by the courts in India for 
a period of one year with effect from the 15th January 1956 , the Sikkim Darbar 
have also agreed that the summonses and other processes issued by the Civil 
and Revenue courts in India may be served by the courts of Sikkim for the 
above period of one year 


2 " Notification No 2386 /0S 
It is hereby notified that whereas the Government of India have agreed 
that the decrees passed by the High Court and all other courts of Sikkim whose 
civil jurisdiction is not subject to any pecuniary limit may be executed by the 
district courts in India for a period of one year , with effect from the 15th January , 
1956 , the Sikkım Darbar have also agreed that the decrees passed by the follow 
ing courts of India namely -- 

(1) The Supreme Court, 
( 11 ) All High Courts and Judicial Commissioners, 
( 11 ) All District Courts , 
( iv ) All other courts whose civil jurisdiction is subject to no pecuniary 

limit provided that the judgement or the decree sought to be execut 
ed is sealed with a seal showing that the jurisdiction of the court is 
subject to no pecuniary limit, 


may be executed in Sikkim by the court of the Chief Magistrate 

Explanation . — Decree in the above notification means any decree or judge 
ment under which a sum of money is payable not being a sum payable in 
respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature or in respect of a fine or 


PART II – Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


147 


other penalty , but shall in no case include an arbitration award , even if such an 
award is enforceable as a decree or judgement. 

By Order of His Highness the 

Maharaja of Sikkim , 
( $ d .) T. D . DENŞAPA , 

Chief Secretary , 

Government of Sikkim ." 
GANGTOK ; 
The 12th January , 1956 . 


[No. F .27 - 1/ 54- L . ] 
H R . KRISHNAN , Jt. Secy. 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi- 2 , the 2nd February 1956 
S . R . O . 267.- In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of Article 239 of the Constitution , the 
President hereby directs that the Chief Commissioner of Bhopal, shall, subject 
to the control of the President, and until further orders , exercise the powers 
and discharge the functions of the Central Government under the provisions of 
sub - section ( ) of section 198B of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( V of 
1898 ) , in the case of persons employed in connection with the affairs of the State 
of Bhopal 

[ No . F .2 / 1 /56 - Judl.II. ] 
S . NARAYANSWAMY, Dy . Secy . 


New Delhi-2 , the 3rd February 1956 
S . R . O . 268 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 2 ) of Article 77 of 
the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following further amendment to 
thə rule published with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs, No. S .R . O . 167, dated the 19th June, 1950 , namely : 
In the said rule 

(i) at the end of item ( 13 ), the word " or " shall be inserted ; and 
(ii) fafter Item ( 13), the following item shall be inserted , namely :--- 
( 14 ) in the case of demand notices under clause 9 of the General Conditions 

or Contract as contained in form Con , 117 requesting purchasers to 
pay to the Government any sum of money recoverable from or 
payable by purchasers on account of elther loss on resale or for any 
other reason under a contract of sale entered into by the Directorate 
General of Supplies and Disposals , by its Director / or the Deputy 
Director of Supplies and / or Disposals ." 

[No . 3 / 3 / 55 -Public I. ] 
FATEH SINGH , Dy . Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi - 2, the 2nd February 1956 
S . R . O . 269 . — In pursuance of clause (22) of Article 366 of the Constitution of 
India the President is hereby pleased to recognise His Highness Maharaja 
Okendrajlt Singh , as the Ruler of Manipur with effect from the 9th December , 
1955 in succession to His late Highness Maharaja Bodh Chandra Singh . 

[No. F . 11 /8 /55 - P011. III. ] 
V . VISWANATHAN , Jt. Secy . 


148 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1958 


[ PART II – Sec . 3 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1956 
S . R . O . 270 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
ment shall be made to the Indian Foreign Service Rules , 1954 , namely : 

In sub - rule ( 5 ) of rule 18 of the said rules, the following note shall be inserted 
at the end, namely : 
" NOTE . — A Government servant who at the time of his transfer holds an 

insurance policy in respect of his personal effects will be reimbursed 
the actual cost of such insurance limited to the amount of premium 
that would have been admissible to him had he insured his personal 
effects for the journey , as provided for in these rules ." 

[No. 80 -EII / 56 .] 
[No. F .12 ( 16 ) - E .II/ 55 . ( IFSR -Am .10. ] 

M . MAJUMDAR , Under Secy , 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1956 
S . R . O . 271. - - The President is pleased to direct the following amendments 
shall be made in Section II - ( a ) " Charge of office " of the Administrative Instruc 
tions in connection with the Fundamental Rules : 
(1) For the existing rule 3, the following shall be substituted : 
3. The Headquarters of any other Government Servant are either the station 

which has been declared to be his headquarters by the authority 
competent to prescribe his headquarters for the purpose of travelling 
allowance under Supplementary Rules 59 or, in the absence of such 
declaration , the station where the records of his office are kept. In 
the case of a competent authority himself, the said power will be 
exercised by the Head of Department, and , if the Head of the 
Department himself is the competent authority , by the administrative 

Ministry . 
( i ) Note below rule 3 shall be deleted . 

[No. F .12 ( 14 ) E . IV / 55 . ] 
K . S . GANAPATI, Dy . Secy . 


(Departmont of Economic Attairs ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 
S . R . O . 272 . — In pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 53 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 1934 ( II of 1934 ) and in partial modification of the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, No. F . 3 ( 15 ) - FI / 48 , dated the 
15th June, 1948 , the Central Government hereby directs that, with effect from the 
28th January , 1956 , in Form A annexed to the said Notification , after the item 
Reserve Fund in the column relating to Liabilities , the following two items 
Bhall be inserted , namely : 

National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operation ) Fund , 
National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund . 

[ No. F . 2 ( 21 ) - FI /58.) 
J. L . KUNDU , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 
S . R . O . 273. In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub -rule ( it) of rule 2 of the 
Appellate Tribunal Rules , 1946, the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri A . S . Singhal, Income - tax Officer, Class II, as Authorised Represen 
tative with effect from the 14th December, 1955, to appear, plead and act for any 
Income- tax Authority who is a party to any proceedings before the Income- tax 
Appellate Tribunal. 

[No. 13 .) 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


Part II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


149 


Sur 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 11th February 1956 
S . R . O . 274 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby directs that the following 
amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government of India , in the 
Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ) No . 107 -Customs, dated the 11th September 
1954 , namely : 
In the said notification , for the words " Projector Lamps " the words 
" Projector Lamps and Studio Lampg " shall be substituted . 

[No . 3.] 
E . S. KRISHNAMOORTHY, Jt. Secy . 


ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 
8 .R . O . 275 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 9 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 ( II of 1899 ) , the Central Government 
hereby remits the duty with which the lease deed , dated the 6th January, 1956 , 
executed by the High Commission for the United Kingdom In India in respect of 
the upper flat situated at 131 , Sunder Nagar , New Delhi, is chargeable under the 
gaid Act . 

[No. 7 . ] 
M . R . RAMACHANDRAN , Under Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME- TAX 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1956 
S . R . O . 276 ( 28 / 115 /84 - IT ] . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 59 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 ( XI of 1922 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the following further amendments in the 
Indian Income- tax Rules, 1922 , the same having been previously published as 
required by sub - section ( 4 ) of the said section , namely : 

In the Form of Notice of Demand prescribed by rule 20A of the said Rules: 
I. In Paragraph 1 : 
( a ) for the words " Take notice that" , the words “ This is to give you notice " 

I shall be substituted ; and 
(b ) after the words and figures " Indian Income- tax Act, 1922" and before 

the words " the sum " , the word " that " shall be inserted ; 
II , In Paragraph 3 : 
( a ) for the words " You are required to pay the amount" , the words " The 

amount is payable " shall be substituted ; and 
(b ) after the word "when ” and before the words " you will” the words 

" if the amount is paid " shall be inserted ; 
III. In Paragraph 4 : 
for the word " required ” the word " asked" shall be substituted . 

[No. 6. ] 
New Delhi, the 6th February 1956 
S . R . O . 276A . [50 / 1 /56 ]. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the 
Indian Income- tax Act , 1922 ( XI of 1922) , the Central Board of Revenue directs 
that the following further amendment shall be made in the schedule to its Notif 
cation No. 32 - Income- tax , dated the 9th November, 1946, namely : 

In the said schedule under the sub -head, " VII - A Punjab , Himachal Pradesh , 
Bilaspur , Patiala and East Punjab States Union and Jammu & Kashmir State " 
for entry " 6 . A & C Wards , Ludhiana" against Patiala Range , the following entry 
shall be substituted , namely : 

" 8 . A , C and D Wards , Ludhiana ." 


III. InP 


if the amord when shall be substitute the ar 


150 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 [ PART II - SEC . 3 

SI 
This Notification shall be deemed to have taken effect from the 20th day of 
January , 1956 . 

[No. 8 .] 
M , S , SIVRAMKRISHNA , Under Secy . 


ESTATE DUTY 


New Delhi, the 1st February 1956 
S . R .O . 277. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 (34 of 1953) . and in 
partlal modification of the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 8 - ED , 
dated the 1st June, 1954, the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
Assistant Controllers posted to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle in Madras 
and the Deputy Controller exercising jurisdiction over the said Circle shall also 
perform their functions as Assistant Controllers and Deputy Controller respectively 
in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who immediately before their death 
were being , or would have been , assessed to income- tax , had they derived any 
taxable income in any Income- tax Circle under the jurisdiction of the Inspecting 
Assistant Commissioners, Ranges I and II , Madras , the Headquarters of which 
Circle lies outside the municipal limits of the City of Madras . 

[No. 2 / F . No. 21/ 7 / 55- E D . ) 


S .R .O . 278 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue , No. 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December , 1953, every Income- tax Omcer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle , Patna , shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
inmediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed to 
income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
under the jurisdiction of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Northern Range , 
Bihar . 

[No. 3 / F , No. 21/ 7 / 55 - E . D .) 


S . R . O . 279 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub -section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 (34 of 1953) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that , subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No . 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December, 1953, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty -cum - Income- tax Circle , Jamshedpur, shall perform 
his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being , or would have been , assessed to 
income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
under the jurisdiction of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner , Southern Range , 
Bihar. 

[No. 4 / F , No. 21 / 7 / 55 - E . D . ] 


S . R . O . 280 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specifled 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December, 1963, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty - cum - Income- tex Circle , Surat, shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed to 
income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, " Surat . 


[No. 5 / F .No. 21/ 7/ 55 - E .D .) 


Part II — SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


IGI 


S . R . O . 281. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No . 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December , 1953, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle , Baroda , shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed te 
Income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Baroda . 

[No . 6 / F . No, 21 / 7 / 55 - E . D . ] 


S . R . O . 282 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December, 1953, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle, Rajkot, shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
Immediately before their death were being , or would have been , assessed to 
income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner , Rajkot. 

(No. 7 / F . No. 21 / 7 /56 - E .D .) 


S . R . O . 283. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
şub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits specified 
in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. 5 - E . D ., dated the 4th 
December , 1953 , every Income- tax Onicer appointed to be an Assistant Controller 
and posted to the Estate Duty - cum - Income- tax Circle, Poona , shall perform his 
functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the exclusion of all other 
Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all deceased persons who 
immediately before their death were being, or would have been , assessed to 
income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in any Income- tax Circle 
within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commissioner, Poona. 

[No. 8 / F . No. 21 / 7 / 55 - E . D . ] 


S . R . O . 284 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5 - E . D ., dated 
the 4th December, 1953, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Nagpur 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been , assessed to income - tax , had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income - tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis 
sioner , Madhya Pradesh and Bhopal, Nagpur 

[ No . 9 / F . No. 21 / 7 / 55 - E . D . ] 


S . R . O . 285. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5 - E . D ., dated 
the 4th December , 1953, every Income - tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Bangalore 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , or would 
have been , assessed to income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income- tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis 
sioner , Bangalore . 


[ No . 10 / F . NO. 21 /7 /55 -ED . ] 


152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


[ PART II -- Sec. 3 


S . R . O . 286 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No . 5 - E . D ., dated 
the 4th December , 1953, every Income- tax Officer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle, Ernakulam 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been , assessed to income -tax , had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income- tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis 
sioner . Ernakulam , 

[No. 11/ F . No. 21 / 7 / 55 - E .D .] 


S . R . O . 287 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 (34 of 1953 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, subject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5 - E . D ., dated 
the 4th December , 1953, every Income - tax OMcer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle . Madhurai 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being , or would 
have been , assessed to income - tax , had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income- tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis 
sioner , Madhurai. 

[No. 12 / F . No. 21/ 7 / 55 - E . D . ] 


8 .R . O . 288. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to 
sub - section ( 2 ) of gection 4 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953 ( 34 of 1953 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that, gubject to the pecuniary limits 
specified in the notification of the Central Board of Revenue No. 5 - E . D ., dated 
the 4th December , 1953 , every Income- tax Omcer appointed to be an Assistant 
Controller and posted to the Estate Duty cum Income - tax Circle , Coimbatore 
shall perform his functions as Assistant Controller in the said Circle to the 
exclusion of all other Assistant Controllers in respect of the estates of all 
deceased persons who immediately before their death were being, or would 
have been , assessed to income- tax , had they derived any taxable income, in 
any Income - tax Circle within the Range of the Inspecting Assistant Commis 
sioner, Coimbotore . 

[No. 13 / F . No. 21 / 7 /55 - E .D . ] 


S .R . O . 289 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
85 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 (34 of 1953 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following further amendments in the Estate Duty Rules , 1968 * , as 
amendedt, the same having been previously published as required by the sald 
sub - section , namely : 

In the said Rules 
( 1 ) clause ( e ) of rule 2 shall be omitted ; 
( 2 ) to sub - rule (6 ) of rule 14 , the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that, if the Controller is satisfied that the principal value go 

ascertained is less than three - fourths of the market value of the land 
at the time of the death of the deceased , the principal value of the 

land shall be estimated under section 36 of the Act." ; 
( 3 ) În sub - rule (6 ) of rule 26 , after the words " The appeal to the Central 
Board of Revenue under section 63 of the Act shall be in Form E . D . 9 " , the follow 
ing shall be added , namely : 
" Every memorandum of appeal shall be in duplicate and shall be accom 

panied by two copies ( at least one of which shall be a certifled copy ) 

of the order appealed against . 
(4 ) In rule 30 , for the word " company " , wherever It occurs, the word " insurer" 
shall be substituted ; 


S . R .O . 556 of 1934 . 
+ 8 .R .Os. 1708 and 2241 of 1954 and S .R .O . 800 of 1935 . 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


153 


(5 ) In rule 31, 
(a ) in the form of assignment, for the expressions " the within policy of 

Assurance No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Co . Ltd ." , 

the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" the within policy of Assurance No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . of the . . . . . . 

Co . Ltd ./ the within Postal Life Insurance Policy / Postal Endow 

ment Assurance Policy No.. . . . . . . . 
( b ) In the proviso , for the word " Company " in both the places where it 

occurs, the word " Insurer ” shall be substituted ; 
66 ) After rule 31, the following rule shall be inserted , namely :. 
" 31A . Lodgment of insurance policies and former deeds of assignment or re 

assignment of policies with the Controller . - ( 1 ) Where a policy of 
insurance is taken out for the express purpose of paying estate duty 
or where an existing insurance policy is assigned to the President of 
India for the purpose of paying estate duty , the assured shall within 
three months of the date of issue of the policy or within three months 
of the date of registration of the assignment by the insurer , as the 
case may be, deposit the policy with the Commissioner of Income- tax 
( who is also the Controller of Estate Duty ) within whose jurisdiction 

the assured resides . 
( 2 ) In the case of a policy assigned to the President for the purpose of 

paying estate duty , the assured shall surrender to the Controller of 
Estate Duty all former deeds of assignments or reassignments , if any , 

in respect of that policy ." 
( 7 ) In rule 32 , for the word " company" , the word “ insurer " shall be substituted . 

(8 ) In rule 33 , for the words " insurance company " in both the places where 
they occur , the word “ insurer " shall be substituted . 
(9 ) After rule 34 , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 35. Particulars to be furnished by insurers. - ( 1 ) In the case of insurance 

policies taken out in the form prescribed by rule 30 or assigned to the 
Government of India in the form prescribed by rule 31 for the purpose 
of paying estate duty , the insurer shall furnish to the Assistant Con 
trofler or Deputy Controller of Estate Duty for the time being exer 
cising the functions of the Income- tax Officer in respect of the insurer , 

quarterly statements containing the following particulars, namely : 
( a ) (1) the number of policies so taken out; 

( ii) the names and addresses of the assured ; 

( 111) the amounts payable under such policies . 
( b ) (i ) the number of policies so assigned in favour of the President; 

(ii ) the names and addresses of the assured ; 

(lil ) the amounts payable under such policies . 
Each quarterly statement shall be furnished within one month of the end 

of the quarterly period to which the statement relates, each quarterly 
period being computed with reference to the commencement of the 

Mnancial year. 
( 2 ) Whenever an insurer makes payment of an amount exceeding Rs. 10 ,000 

due under one or more life insurance policies on the death of the 
assured to his legal heirs, executors , administrators , other legal re 
presentatives or to his nominees or assignees , the insurer shall within 
two months of the date of payment furnish the following particulars 
to the Assistant or Deputy Controller of Estate Duty for the time 
being exercising the functions of the Income- tax Officer in respect 

of the insurer, namely : 
( 1) the name and address of the assured ; 
( ii) the amount paid under the policy ; 
( iii) the name and address of the nominee or assignee to whom the 

payment is made, or if the policy has not been subjected to nomina 
tion or assignment, the name and address of the legal heir , executor, 

administrator or other legal representative ; 
(iv ) the date on which payment is made ." 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


[PART II — SEC . 3 


( 10 ) After rule 35 , the following headings and rules shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" Particulars to be furnished by statutory Corporations regarding stocks, 

shares or other securities held by a deceased person . 
36 . Particulars to be furnished by Statutory Corporations. - - ( 1 ) Where & 

statutory corporation so constituted under any Act of Parliament 
or a State Legislature has come to know through any of its principal 
officers or otherwise of the death of any person who is a registered 
holder of stocks, shares or other securities in such corporation , it 
shall within one month of the receipt of such knowledge , furnish 
the particulars mentioned in sub - rule ( 2 ) to the Assistant or Deputy 
Controller of Estate Duty , for the time being exercising the functions 

of the Income- tax Officer in respect of the Corporation . 
( 2 ) ( a ) Where any transfer of a part or whole of the stocks, shares or 

other securities standing in the name of the deceased has been 
registered in the books of the corporation and such transfer has 
been made for valuable consideration , the following particulars " 

shall be furnished , namely : 
(i) the name and address of the deceased in whose name the stocks, 

shares or other securities stood ; 
( ii ) the name and address of the transferee ; 
( iii) the description (with distinctive numbers ) of the stocks, shares 

or securities transferred ; 
( iv ) the nominal value of the stocks , shares or securities transferred ; 
(v ) the amount of consideration paid by the transferee ; 
( vi) the name and address of the transferor to whom or of the broker 

through whom , the consideration was paid ; 
(vii ) the description of any other stocks, shares or other securities still 

standing in the name of the deceased on the date of furnishing 

the particulars. 
( b ) Where no transfer of any stocks, shares or other securities standing 

in the name of the deceased has been registered in the books of the 

corporation , the following particulars shall be furnished , namely : 
( i) the name and address of the deceased holder of stocks, shares or 

securities ; 
( ii ) the description (with distinctive numbers) of the stocks, shares 

or securities standing in the name of the deceased ; 
(iii ) the nominal value of the stocks , shares or securities held ; 
(iv ) the estimated market value thereof on the date of the date of the 

death of the deceased ; 
( v ) the name and address of the trustee, administrator or other legal 

representative of the deceased ; 
( vi) whether any application has been received from any person for 

the transfer of such stocks, shares or securities ; and if so , the 

name and address of the person who has applied for transfer . 
( c ) Where the deceased was a joint holder of stocks, shares or other 

securities , the following particulars shall be furnished , namely : --- 
(i) the name and address of the deceased joint holder ; 
( it) the name and address of every other person holding the stocks, 

shares or other securities jointly with the deceased holder ; 
( iii ) the description of the stocks, shares or other securities so held 

jointly ; 
( iv ) the nominal value of the stocks, shares or other securities held jointly 

immediately before the death of the joint holder ; 
( v ) the beneficial interest of the deceased joint holder in the stocks , 

shares or other securities , if known ; 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


155 


( vi ) the estimated market value of the joint stocks, shares or other 

securities on the date of the death of the deceased ; 
(vii) the name and address of the trustee, administrator or other legal 

representative of the deceased , if known . 
Information to be furnished by Provident Funds and Superannuation 

Funds. 
37. Particulars to be furnished by a Provident Fund or a Superannuationt 

Fund in the case of the death of a member participating in the Fund . 
Where the Trustees of any Provident Fund or of any Superannuation 
Fund , the accounts of which are not maintained by an Accounts Omcer 
of the Central or any State Government, come to know of the death 
of the member participating in such Fund and where the lump sum 
payment or the commuted value of the benefits payable on account of 
participation in the Fund exceeds Rs. 10 , 000 , the Trustees shall, within 
one month of the receipt of such knowledge, furnish the following 
particulars to the Assistant Controller or Deputy Controller of Estate 
Duty for the time being exercising the functions of the Income-tax 

Officer in respect of such Fund , namely : 
( i ) the name and description of the Fund ; 
( ii ) the name and address of the deceased member participating in the 

Fund ; 
( iii ) (a ) in the case of a Provident Fund , the amount lying to the credit 

of the deceased on the date of his death ; 


(b ) in the case of a Superannuation Fund, any annuity , pension or lump 

sum payable under the Rules of the Fund with the detailed schemes 

thereof; 
( iv ) the names and addresses of the Trustees , Administrators or other 

legal representatives of the deceased , if known ; 
( v ) the names and addresses of the persons to whom the amounts men 

tioned in item (iii ) is payable or paid ." 
( 11 ) In Form E . D . 1, (i) for paragraph 20 , the following paragraph shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" 20 . That to the best of my/ our knowledge and belief, there is no other 

property under any title whatsoever in respect of which duty is 

chargeable on the death of the deceased . 
I / We ( 11) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . swear / affirm that the 
statements in paragraphs . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . are true and 
that the statements in paragraphs . . . . , , , 

. . . . are made upon 
information received by me / us and solemnly and sincerely believed to be true . 

1 . Signed 

Address . . . , 
2 . Signed 

Address . . . , 


( 12 ) 
Declared on oath or affirmation 

before me this . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . day 
01 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 . . . . . . . . . . . . . at . . . 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . by the above named 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . who 19 / 
are personally known to me. 

identified by 
+ Signed . . . . . 

Designation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
* If there are more persons than two making the declaration , here insert the 
signatures and address of all the remaining persons. 

+ This may be sworn or affirmed before any Magistrate or other Court, or 
before a person having by law authority to receive evidence. The designation of 
the Magistrate , Court or person should be added below the signature." 


156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


" 


- 


- - 


( ii) in Account No. 1 — (First Part) 
( a ) for the words " unpaid purchase money of movable and leasehold pro 

perty contracted in life - time of the deceased to be sold , as per statement 

annexed " , the following words shall be substituted, namely : 
" Unpaid purchase money of immovable property contracted in life - time 

of the deceased to be sold as per statement annexed ” . 
( b ) the following words and brackets shall be omitted , namely : 
" Leasehold property for years, 

If sold , realised grogs 
as per form 1B 

2 If unsold , estimated at 
(Mortgages on the leasehold property should be deducted by inclusion 

in Schedule No .1 ) " 
( c ) the words " and leasehold " occurring in " Rents of the deceased s own 

immovable and leasehold property due prior to the death but not 
received by the deceased, (G ) estimated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs." shall be 

omitted ; and 
( d ) the words " and leasehold " occurring in Apportionment of the rents of 

the deceased s immovable and leasehold property due prior to the 

death , (G ) estimated at . . . . . . . . . . . . Rs." shall be omitted . 
( iii) in Account No . 1 — ( Second Part) 

for the words " Immovable Property except agricultural land situate in 

the States of India " , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
“ Immovable property ( including leaseholds ) other than agricultural land 

situate in the States of India " . 
( iv ) In Accounts Nos. 3 ( a ) AND 3 (b ) — 
( a ) in the heading of column 2 , the words and brackets “ ( Full particulars 

of any leaseholds for years should be separately stated ) " shall be 

omitted ; 
( b ) In column 1, the words " Deduct - Debts and encumbrances upon lease 

holds, as per statement annexed " shall be omitted . 
(v ) In Schedule No. 1 - (First Part ) - 
the brackets and words “ ( including mortgage debts secured on leasehold 

property ) " occurring in the first line shall be omitted . 
(vi) In Form 1 - B annexed to Form E .D . 1 -- 
for the words " Statement of Immovable and / or Leasehold property exclud 

ing agricultural land" , the following shall be substituted , namely : 
" Statement of Immovable Property. ( including leaseholds ) other than 

agricultural lands." 
(vil ) In Form 1 -E annexed to Form E .D . 1 — 
( a ) after Note " ( 11 ) " , the following Note shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 12 ) The Declaration is in the nature of an affidavit and llable to stamp 

duty at the rates prevailing in the State in which the document is 
executed or, where the document executed in a particular State is 
presented in another State , at the rates prevailing in the State in 

which it is presented , whichever is the higher . 
(b ) for items " ( c ) " and " ( d ) " below Note ( N ) , the following shall be 

substituted , namely : - 
" ( c ) Proceeds of insurance policy taken out for the purpose of paying estate 

duty or assigned to the President of India for the said purpose , to the 

extent of duty payable ; 
( d ) Moneys deposited with the Government for the purpose of paying estate 

duty , to the extent of duty payable ; 
Provided that the moneys in respect whereof no estate duty shall be payable 

either under item ( c ) , or item ( d ) or under both , shall not exceed 
rupees fifty thousand in the aggregate ." ; 


PART IIKS£c, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1958 


157 


( 12 ) In Form No. E .D . 3 

( i) In the second paragraph , for the word " none" , the words " no estate duty " 
shall be substituted ; 


( 11) the following foot - note shall be added , namely : 
" NOTE . - This certificate merely entitles a person to grant of representation 

and does not release the property mentioned in the certificate from 

the charge created under Section 74 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953" ; 
( 13 ) In Form E . D . 7 , at the top right hand corner, the following shall be insert 
ed , namely : -- 

" G . I.R . No. - " ; and 
( 14 ) For the existing Form E . D . 8 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 

ESTATE DUTY 


E . D .- 8 


ASSESSMENT /REFUND FORM 


[ See rule 26 (3) ] 


Serial Nou 


Code No. 


State . . . . . . . . 
District of Circle . . . . 
E . D . I . R , Number . . . . . . 
Assistant/Deputy / Controller . . 
Name and address of the deceased . . . 
Domicile of the deceased . . . . . 
Namc and address of the person accountable 


. . 


Remarks 


Total 
value 

of 
property 


Details of Property 


Principal Principal 
value of value of 
interest property 
in Joint of any 
Hindu other 
Family kind 


Code 
No. 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


A . IMMOVABLE PROPERTY IN 
INDIA 
(i) Agricultural property situated 

in the State (s ) of . 
(il) Non - agricultural property 

situated in the State ( s ) 


III . . . 


1 


1 


1 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


of. 


112 


, 


. . . . . . . . . 


ZII . . 

1 1 . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


27 


213 


B . MOVEABLE PROPERTY IN 

INDIA 
(i) Government Securities . 
(ii) Stocks, Shares and Deb 

entures 
(iii) Cash including fixed de 

posits . . . 
(iv ) Life Insurance proceeds 
( v ) Business a99cts including 

share in partenership and 

Goodwill 
( vi) Precious Stones , Jewellery 

and works of Art . 
(vii) Household goods , Vehicles 

Furniture etc . . 
(viii) Slice of the assets of Co 

ntrolled Companies . 
(ix ) Others . . . 


215 


. 


216 


218 


219 


. 


. 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


- 


- - - 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


(PART II SEC. 3 


311 . . . . . . . 


312 . . . . . . . . 
313 . . . . . 


14 


HI 


N 


I 


, 


, 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


C . MOVABLE PROPERTY OUT 

SIDE INDIA 
(i) Government Securities . 
(ii) Stocks, Shares and Deben 

tures . 
( iii) Cash including fixed de 

positco . . . 
( iv ) Life Insurance proceeds 
( v ) Business assets including share 

in partnership and Good 

will 
( vi) Precious Stones, Jewellery 

and Works of Art 
(vii ) Houschold goods, Vehicles 

Furniture etc . 
( viil ) Slice of the assets of Co 

ntrolled Companies 
(ix ) Others 


316 . . . . . . . 


318 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . IIIIIIIIIII 


319 . . . . . 


TOTAL PROPERTY (PRINCI 

PAL VALUE) 


Duty 


Remarks 


Rs. 


As. 


Estate Duty payable on Total Value of property if wholly consisting 

of intercat in Joint Hindu l amily , . 


(Average Rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .pies in the rupee ) 
Duty payable at the average ratc 
Estate Duty payable on Total value of property if wholly consisting 

of other kind . . 
(Average Rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . pics in the rupee ) 
Duty payable at the average rate . . 
Total Duty payablc ( A ) . . . . . 
(Aggregate Average Rate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . pies in the rupee ) 


Amount 


Total 


Sums included in principal value on which 

estate duty is not payable 


Code 
No. 


Joint 
Hindu 
Family 


Other 
kind 


4II . . . 


. 


. . . 


4 


412 


12 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . 


(a ) Gifts for public charitable purposes 
( b ) Gifts for any other purposes 
(c ) Moneys earmarked for the marriage of 

female relatives 
(d) Insurance proceeds on the life of the 

deceased 
(c) Agricultural lands in non -Scheduled 

States : 
(f) Interest in expectancy (Demand deferred 
(8) Proceed of Insurance Policy for paying 

Estatc Duty , . 
(h ) Money deposited with Government for 

paying Estate Duty . 
(i) Value items exempt under Section 33 (2 ) 


414 
415 . . . . .. . 
416 .. . .. . 
417 . . .. . . 
418 


Total amount upon which relief is due and 

duty thereon (B ) . . . . . 


4Stc . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


159 


Duty 


Code No. 


Rs. As. 


SII 


512 


Deduct - (a ) Rebate on agricultural land , if any u /s 35 (3 ) 

(b ) Allowance for quick succession u /s. 31 
(c ) Estatc Duty paid in a reciprocating 

country u /s 30 . 
(d ) Sums paid for obtaining probate u /s, 50 . 


513 
514 


TOTAL (C ) 


. 


Duty payable ( A - (B + C ) ] 
Payments already made, if any 
Balance payable/Refundable 


Interest charged on Rs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . from . . . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . 
Penalties charged . . . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


Total num payable / Refundable . 
In words - - Rupces . 
Date . 


Date and number of notice of Demand /Refund Voucher 


Deductions allowed in arriving at the principal value of the property . 

Code No. Amount 
(i) Funeral expenses . 
(u ) Bona fide debts and encumbrances 
( iii ) Dower debts , , , 
( iv ) Cost of administering or rcalizing forcign property 
( v ) Allowance for duty paid in a non - reciprocating 
country . . . 

. 

. . 


WN 


TOTAL , 


. 


Controller" . 
[ No. 14 / F . No. 12 / 4 / 65 - E . D . ] 

R . K , DAS, Secy . 


Explanatory Notes 
( Thiy note is not part of the Rules or amendments but is itended to indicate their general 

purport), 
Amendment No. 1. - As a consequence of the extension of the Estate Duty Act , 
1953, to the State of Jammu & Kashmir by the Taxation Laws ( Extension to 
Jammu & Kashmir ) Act , 1954, sub -rule ( e ) of rule 2 is no longer necessary . 


Amendment No . 2 . — Under the original sub - rule ( 6 ) of Rule 14 , 20 times the 
annual value as assessed for the purpose of land revenue is ordinarily to be taken 
as the basis of valuation of agricultural land for purposes of estate duty . The 
amendment seeks to avoid under - valuation of any agricultural land where value 
ascertained on this basis has no relation to the present market value of the land . 


160 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


(PART II – Sec . 


Amendment No. 3 . — The idea behind this amendment is that a copy of t] 
Memorandum of appeal will be available for transmission to the Controller ( 
Estate Duty concerned for his report which will invariably be necessary befor 
deciding the appeal Aled before the Board under Section 63 of the Estate Dut 
Act, 1953. 

Amendments Nos . 4 , 5 , 7 and 8 . — The rules as originally framed referred to 
insurance policies issued by insurance companies only . Since Postal Life Insurance 
Policies can also be taken out or assigned under Section 33 ( 1) ( f ) of the Estate 
Duty Act, 1953, these amendments have been made to cover policies issued by any 
insurer. 


Amendment No. 6 .- This new rule has been framed because it is the practice 
of insurance companies to insist on the production of the policy before the claim 
is met . While under sub - rule ( 1 ) of this rule all cases will come to the notice of 
the Department where the policies referred to therein have been taken out or 
assigned to the President of India , sub -rule ( 2 ) will facilitate settlement of the 
claim on the policy when it arises . 

Amendment No . 9 . – Particulars furnished under sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 35 will 
be helpful in maintaining a record of the policies referred to therein and thos 
furnished under sub - rule ( 2 ) will enable the Controllers of Estate Duty to initiat . 
necessary enquiries wih a view to finding out whether the estate of the deceased 
is likely to attract estate duty , 

Amendment No . 10 . - ( i ) As rules 29 and 29A do not apply to statutory corpora 
tions, the new rule 36 has been framed . This rule lays down the same particulars 
which have to be furnished by companies formed and registered under the Indian 
Companies Act, 1913 . 

( ii ) The particulars furnishred under the new rule 37 will enable the Controller 
to make necessary enquiries to find out whether the estate of the deceased is liable 
to estate duty . 


Trustees of Provident Funds and Superannuation Funds are also persons 
accountable under Section 53 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Estate Duty Act for estate duty in 
respect of the sums standing to the credit of the deceased member participating 
in the Fund . Before paying the amount to the legal heirs of the deceased , the 
Trustees would , therefore, Insist in appropriate cases , on the production of a 
certificate from the Controller to the effect that the duty has been paid or will be 
paid or that none is due as the case may be . The particulars furnished under this 
rule would also ensure prompt action on the part of the Controller to settle the 
estate duty liability of the deceased . 

Amendment No. 11 .-- ( i ) ( a ) Provides space for addresses of the accountable 
persons submitting the accounts . 

( b ) Adds the Agures and brackets ( 12 ) which refer to item ( vil) ( a ) below . 

( ii) , ( ili) , ( iv ) , ( v ) & (vi) . These amendments seek to exclude lease - hold 
property from the account of movable property and to include the same in the 
account of immovable property . 

( vii ) ( a ) inserts a new note drawing attention to the fact that the declaration 
at page 3 of the Form of account E . D . 1 which is in the nature of an affidavit is 
liable to a stamp duty . 

(b ) This amendment clarifies that the proceeds of insurance policies taken 
out or assigned to the Government for payment of estate duty and / or sumy 
deposited for the same purpose shall not exceed Rs. 50 ,000 in the aggregate. Thn 
amendment is based on the amendments made in clauses ( l ) and ( 8 ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 33 of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, by Section 4 of the Finance 
Act, 1954. 


Amendment No. 12 .-- ( i) Certificate in Form ED . 3 may issue in one of the three 
forms, namely : - - 


(a ) full estate duty has been paid ; or 
(b ) full estate duty will be paid ; or 
( c ) none is due. 


Where a certificate is issued in form ( c ) , this amendment substitutes the words 
" no estate duty " for the word " none " so as to make the meaning clear . 


IRT II - SC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1836 


161 


( 1 ) This amendment clarifies that the certifcate under Section 60 of the Estate 
ruty Act, 1953 , does not release the property mentioned therein from the charge 
created under Section 74 of the Act. 


Amendment No. 13 . — Adds the letters G . I. R . No. which is an abbreviation for 
General Index Register No ." for the purpose of official reference , 


Amendment No. 14 . — The " Assessment/ Refund Form " has been revised mainly 
for the purpose of collecting useful data and compiling essential statistics from the 
torm itself without any fundamental changes . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

RUBBER CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 
8 .R . O . 290 . – Shri P . N . Ramachandran , Secretary , Rubber Board has been 
granted leave for 90 days with effect from the forenoon of 8th December , 1955 . 

On expiry of the leave , the services of Shri P . N . Ramachandran are replaced 
at the disposal of the Government of Orissa . 

(No. 38 ( 2 ) Plant /82. ] 


S . R . O . 291. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6A of the Rubber Act, 
1947 (XXIV of 1947) , the Central Government is pleased to appoint Shri N . 
Krishna Pillai, Assistant Secretary to the Government of Travancore -Cochin as 
Secretary , Rubber Board , Kottaylam with effect from the forenoon of 8th 
December 1955 , vice Shri P . N . Ramachandran . 

[ No. 28 ( 11) Plant / 55 . ] 


S . R . O . 292 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Rūbber Act , 1947 (XXIV of 1947 ) read with 
sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Rubber Rules , 1955 , the Central Government hereby 
nominates Shri P . P . I. Vaidyanathan , I. C . S ., Director of Agriculture, Madras , 
to be a member of the Rubber Board in the vacancy caused by the resignation 
of Shri M . S . Sivaraman , I. C . S . and makes the following amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and 
Industry , No. S .R . O . 1765 , dated the 10th August , 1955 , namely : 


In the said notification , for the entry 
" ( 1 ) Shri M . S . Sivaraman , I. C . S ., Director of Agriculture, Madras 

nominated by the Government of Madras " , 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely 
" ( 1) Shri P . P . I. Vaidyanathan , I.C . S ., Director of Agriculture, Madras.. . 
nominated by the Government of Madras ." 

[No. 20 ( 4 ) Plant /55 .] 
P . V . RAMASWAMY, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 4th February 1956 
S . R . O . 293. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Forward 
Contracts (Regulation ) Act, 1952 (LXXIV of 1952 ), the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri D . N . Mahta as full time Member of the Forward Markets 
Commission , Bombay . 

[No. (25/ 7 / Estt. C /56. ] 
G . RAMANATHAN , Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 7th February 1956 
S . R . O . 294 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 read with sub 
section (2 ) of Section 16 of the Essential Commodities Act , 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the 


1162 


THE GAZETFE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1958 


[ PART II — SEC: 3 


Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the Cotton 
Textiles ( Control) "Order, 1948, namely : 
In the said Order , clause 19 shall be omitted . 

[No. 8 ( 3 ) -CT ( A ) / 55-6 . ] 
S . K , PAL , Under Secy . 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

Delhi, the 27th January 1956 
S . R . O . 295 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - regulation (1 ) of regulation 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution (CertfAcation Marks ) Regulations , 1955 , the Indian Standards Insti 
tution hereby notifies the issue of errata elips , detailed in column (4 ) of the Schedule hereto annexed , 
in respect of the Indian Standard specificd in column ( 2 ) of the said Schedule. 

THR SCHEDULE 


Si. 


(1) 


No, and date of 

Gazette Notification 
No. No, and title of Indian Standard in which establish - Particulars of Errata Slips issued 

ment of the Indian 
Standard was notified - 

(3 ) 
IS : SI1- 1954 Specification for S . R . O . 658 , dated the At page 2 , clause 2 1, line 1 

Tamarind Kernel Powder for 26th March 1955 . read sample for samples . 
use in the Jute Textile In 

At page 3 , clause 2 . 4 , lines 5 and 
dustry ( Tentative ). 

6 from the end , read , sample 

for specimen . 
At page 4 , clause B - 1 . 1, fourth 
item of Ingredients, read 

B - Naphthol for Beta 
Naphthol . 
At pages 6 and 7 , line i of clauses 

D -II, D - 5 . I and D - 6 . I , 

read sample for powder " . 
At page 7, clause D - 5 . 3 , line 2 

read dried samples for dry 
powder . 


Copies of this errata slip are available , free of cost, from the Secretary (Administration ), Indian 
Standards Institution , 19 University Road , Civil Lines , Delhi- 8 . 

D . V . KARMARKAR 
Deputy Director (Marks.) 
Indian Standards Istitution . 

[No. MDC/11(4).] 
S . R . O , 296 . - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 5 of the Indian Standards Insti 
tution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notific 
that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been 
cancelled . 

THE SCHEDULE 


SI, 
No. 


No. and title of the Indian Standard 

cancelled 


No, and date of Gazette Notification in which 

establishment of the Indian 

Standard was notified 


( 3 ) 


I. IS : 29 - 1950 Specification for Aluminium 

Sheets and Coils for Aircraft Purposes . 
2 . IS : 448- 1953 Specification for Unified Screw 
Threads . . 

. . 


S . R . O . 658, dated the 26th March 1955. 
S . R . O . 658, dated the 26th March 1955 . 


D . V . KARMARKAR 
Deputy Director (Marks .) 
Indian Standards Institution . 

[No, MDC /11(4 ).) 


PART 11.- Sed . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1988 


163 


Delhi, the Ist February 1956 
S .R . O . 297 . - In pursuance of sub - regulations (2) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby 
notifics that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in thc Schedule hereto annexed , 
have been established during the period 16th to 31st January , 1956 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. 
No, 


No. and title of the Indian 

Standard or Standards, if 
No. and title of the Indian any, superseded by the 
Standard established new Indian Standard 


Brief Particulars 


I 


IS : 553 - 1955 Specifi 
cation for Rosin (Gum 
Rosin ). 


This standard covers the re 

quirements and methods of 
test for rogin or gum rogin 
obtained from the oleo - resin 
of pine. The material has 
been classified into three typce , 
namely pale , medium and 
dark and 18 principally used 
in paper , soap , paint, var 
nish , rubber and polish in 
dustries. (Price Rs. 1/ 8 /- ). 


Copies of this standard are available for sale with the Secretary (Administration ), Indian 
Standards Institution , 19 , University Road , Delhi - 8 . 

D . V . KARM KAR , 
Deputy Director (Marks ), 
Indian Standards Institution . 


(No. MDC /11(4 ).] 
B . B . BENJAMIN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi-2, the 31st January 1956 
S .R . O . 298. In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 (XXVII of 1933 ) . 
the Central Government hereby nominates Dr. G . L . Sharma, M . B ., B . S ., M . D . 
(Med .) , M . D . ( Path . ) , Nagpur, as a member of the Medical Council of India vice 
Dr. T . D . Shahani. 

[No. F .5 - 23 / 55 -MI(PL.II) .] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi-2 , the 31st January 1956 
S . R . O . 299 , -- The Central Ministries of Food & Agriculture and Railways having 
nominated , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 3 of the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act , 1954 ( 37 of 1954 ) , Shri 
V . P . Anantanarayanan , Senior Marketing Officer , Directorate of Marketing and 
Inspection , Ministry of Food & Agriculture and Dr. B . Lall, Officer on Special 
Duty (Medical) , Railway Board , as members representing them in the Central 
Committee for Food Standards , in the vacancies caused by the resignation of 
Dr. M . B . Ghatge , Agriculture Marketing Adviser, Ministry of Food & Agriculture 


164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


and Dr. L . N . Goel, Chief Medical Officer , Northern Railway, respectively , the 
following amendments are made in the notification of the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Health , No. S .R . O . 1236, dated the 1st June, 1955 , namely : 
In the said notification 
( 1 ) for the entry " 5. Dr. M . B . Ghatge, Agriculture Marketing Adviser , 

Ministry of Food & Agricuture , New Delhi" , the entry " 6 . Shri V , P . 
Anantanarayanan , Senior Marketing Officer, Directorate of Marketing 
and Inspection , Ministry of Food & Agriculture, New Delhi" shall be 

substituted ; and 
( 2 ) for the entry " 7 , Dr. L . N . Goel, Chief Medical Officer , Northern Railway , 

New Delhi" , the entry " 7. Dr. B . Lall, Officer on Special Duty 
(Medical ), Railway Board , New Delhl" shall be substituted . 

[No. F .41 - 44 / 55 - PH . ] 
BABU RAM , Under Secy . 


New Delhi-2 , the 3rd February 1956 
8 . R . O . 300. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 300 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for regulat 
ing the recruitment to the Central Services, Class I and Class II in the College 
of Nursing, New Delhi: 

PART I – GENERAL 
1. These rules may be called the College of Nursing ( Central Services, Class 
I and Class II ) Recruitment Rules, 1955 . 
2 . For the purpose of these rules: 

( a ) Government means the Government of India . 
(b ) The Commission means the Union Public Service Commission . 
( c ) The Service means the Central Service Class I and the Central 

Service Class II in the College of Nursing. 
( d ) Scheduled Castes mean any castes, communities , races , sects , etc., 

notified as such by the President of India. 
( e ) Scheduled Tribes mean castes communities , races , sects , etc ., notified 

as such by the President of India . 
3 . Recruitment to the Service shall be made by the following methods : 

(1) By selection in accordance with Part II of these rules. 

( ii ) By promotion in accordance with Part III of these rules . 
4 . ( a ) Appointments to posts in Central Service , Class I (mentioned in 
Schedule of Appendix I) , shall be made normally by selection as specified in 
Part II of these rules. 

( b ) Appointments to posts in Central Service, Class II (mentioned in Schedule 
II of Appendix I ) shall be made as specified below : - - 
( 1) Appointments to posts which are included in category I of Schedule II 

shall be made normally by promotion of suitable officers from Central 
Service, Class III (Gazetted ) included in Schedule III as specified 
Part III of these Rules . 


( ii ) Appointments to the posts which are included in category II of 

Schedule II shall be ordinarily made by selection as specified in 

Part II of these Rules. 
( c ) If , however, at any time, it is not possible to make appointments to posts 
included in category I by promotion according to clause ( b ) ( i ) of this rule , due 
to the non - availability of suitable candidates, or for any other reason , appoint 
ments shall be made by selection as specified in Part II of these Rules , 

6 . ( a ) Subject to the provisions of rules 3 and 4, Government shall determine 
the methods to be employed for the purpose of filling any particular vacancies 
or such vacancies as may require to be Alled during any particular period and 
the numher of candidates to be recruited by each method , 


PART II- Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


- 


165 


(b ) The various grades of posts included in the service , the pay scales attach 
ed to them , their classification and the special conditions of service attaching 
to them shall be as indicated in Appendix I to these Rules. 

8 . Appointments to the service made otherwise than by promotion will be 
subject to the orders issued from time to time by the Ministry of Home Affairs 
regarding special representation in the Services for specific sections of the people . 

PART II — RECRUITMENT BY SELECTION 
7 . A candidate for admission to the selection must apply before such date . 
in such form , and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Commission . 
8 . (a ) A candidate must be either : 

(i) a citizen of India , or 
( ii) a subject of Sikkim , or 
( iii) a person who has migrated from areas which now form Pakistan . 

with the intention of permanently setting in India , or 
( iv ) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguege or a former French possession 

in India . 
NOTE 1.- - The appointment of a candidate falling in category ( lil ) or (ly ) 
above will be subject to the issue of a certificate of eligibility in his favour by 
the Government of India . Certificates of eligibility will not, however, be neces 
sary in the case of candidates belonging to any of the following categories: — 
( 1 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before the 19th July , 

1948 and have ordinarily been resident in India since then . 
( 2 ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after the 18th July . 

1948 but before the 30th September , 1948 and got themselves regis 

tered as citizens of India within the time allowed . 
( 3 ) Non - citizens who entered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , viz ., 26th January, 
1950 , and who have continued in such service since then . Any such 
persons who re - entered or may re - enter such service with a break , 
after the 26th January, 1950, will however , require certificates of 

eligibility in the usual way . 
NOTE 2 .. ( a ) A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is neces 
sary may be admitted lo the selection and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being issued in his favour by Government. 


( b ) A candidate must be within the age limits specifled in Appendix II. 

NOTE . - ( 1 ) The upper age limit will be relaxable upto a maximum period of 
five years if a candidate belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe . 


( 2 ) Candidates who are bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan will be 
allowed the age concessions which Government may sanction for such persons 
from time to time. 

( 3 ) The Commission may relax the upper age limits upto three years in excep 
tional circumstances . 

( c ) A candidate must possess the qualifications and / or experience specified 
in Appendix II to these rules; provided that in exceptional cases the Commission 
may, on the recommendation of the Government, treat as a qualified candidate , 
a candidate who, though he has not all or any of the qualifications prescribed in 
these rules , has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a standard 
which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission , 

( d ) A candidate must satisfy the Commission and the appointing authority 
that his / her character and antecedents are such as to make him / her suitable for 
appointment to the Service . 

9 . The decision of the Commission on the question whether a candidate does . 
or does not , satisfy any of the requirements of rule 8 shall be final, 


10 . Government may modify or waive any of the requirements of rule 8 ( a ) , 
(b ) and ( c ) when it is not practicable to obtain a suitable candidate who fulfils 
all the requirements of rule 8 . 


166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


11 . A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his / her duties as an 
officer of the Service. A candidate , who ( after such physical examination as 
Government or the appointing authority , as the case may be, may prescribe ) is 
found not to satisfy those requirements, will not be appointed . 


1 . 12 . A candidate must , at the time of application pay such fee as Government 
after consulting the Commission may from time to time prescribe and candidates 
hust submit such proofs of their qualifications as the Commission may require. 

13 . (a ) Appointments to the Service shall be made on probation for a period 
of Ane year. 

Therretan 

( b ) On the conclusion of his /her period of probation , Government may con 
firm the officer in his / her appointment. If , however during or at the end of the 
probationary period his / her work or conduct has in the opinion of Government 
been unsatisfactory , Government may either discharge him / her or extend his / 
her period of probation for such further period as they think fit, provided that 
before orders of discharge are passed the probationer shall be apprised by the 
competent authority of the grounds on which it is proposed to discharge him 
her and given ondpportunity to show cause against it. 


( c ) If no etehen is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) of this rule, the 
period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engagement 
from month , to month terminable on either side, on the expiration of one calendar 
month s notira 

( d ) If the fet totaake appointments in the Service is delegated by Govern 
ment to any often 4H8t officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
under this rule . 


PART III - RECRUITMENT BY PROMOTION 
14 , ( a ) Recruitment kay Promotion to Class II ( Category I of Schedule II of 
Appendix I ) shall maderfrom among the officers in Central Service Class III 
(Gazetted ) included in Schedule III of Appendix I . 


( b ) Recruitment byu .phomotion to Selection posts in the Service shall be made 
by selection on merit on the recommendations of a duly - constituted Departmental 
Promotion Committee . In cases where a Member of the Commission is included 
in the Departmental Prothotion Committee . he shall act as Chairman . The 
Omcer ( 8 ) selected will be appointed by Government or by an officer under rule 
16 below . 


15 . If the power to make appointments in the service is delegated by Govern 
ment to any officer , that offlcer may exercise any powers of Government under 
this Part of these rules . 


APPENDIX I 


Designation of post 


Scale of pay 


Uniformn Messing Dhobi Dearncas 
allowance allowance allowance allowance 


p . m . 


p .m . 


p .m . 


p . m . 


p .m . 
4 


I 


3 


5 


At usual rate 


Schedulo I (Central Service Class I Posts ) 
I. Principal 

Rs. 300 - 40 - 1000 . . 
* 1000 - 1050 - 1050 

1100 - 1100 - 150 
2 . Director , Child Rs. 600 --- 40 — 1000 

Guidance Clinic 
3 . Vice- Pțincipal I Ro. 350 - 350 — 380 

380 430 590 - - EB 

- 30 — 770 – 40 - 850 
4 .5Vice-Principal 


Do. 


Do , 


Do. 


. 


. 


Do , 


Do . 


Part II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY, 11 , 1966 , 

* T 


167 


" 


" 


At usual rate. 


of pay as palom populares a 


Schedule 11 — (Central Service , Class II Posts ) 

Category 1 

Rs. aş. p . Rg. as. p . Ro. as. D . 
I. Scnior Sister Tutor I Rs. 320 - 20 — 4008 50 50 DO 48 o At half the 

ugual rate . 
2 . Senior Sister Tutor II Do. 

Do . Do . Do. Do . 
3 . Public Hoalth Teacher Do. 

Do . Do. Do. Do . 
4 . Ward Teaching 
Sister -in - Charge 

Do. , Do. Do. Do. : Do. 

Category II 
1. Assistant Surgeon Rs. 260 --- 15 - 1449 . . 

At ugual rate . 
Edwina Mountbatten 20 -500 - - plus 2017 - 
Mobile Nursing , ofpay as Non - prac - 

, tising allowance . 
2 . Dietitian 

Rs. 275 - 25 - 500 - EB , . . 

30 - 650 - -- EB - - 

30 – 800 . i 
3. Lecturer in English R9. 2007-15- 3290 – 20 .. 

- 410 - 25 – 7560 
4. Lecturer in Psychology , Bp., 850 . , . 
5. Lecturer in Hindi : , Do. 

Schedule III„ Central Service, Class III-(Gazetted ) Scales of Pay 
1. Sister Tutors . Rs. 200 -10- 300 85 o 50 0 0 4 8 . 0 Half the 

usual rate . 
2 . Sister Tutor , . 

DoDo. 
(Midwifery) 
3 . Sister Supervisor 

Do Do . 
for Rural Work . 
4 Sister Supervisor Do. 

Do. 
for Urban Work . 
5. Ward Teaching Rs 150 — 7 — 18548 

Do . 
Sister . 

- 225 . 
6 . Ward Teaching Sister Do. 

(Midwife . y ). 
7 . Assistant Supervisor Do. 

for Rural Work . 
8 . Assistant Supervisor Do . 

Do. 
for Urban Work . 
9 . Assistant for Public Do . 

Do. 
Health . 


Do. 


. . . Do. 


10 . 


DO . 


Do. 


APPENDIX II 
Qualications and age limits prescribed for various Cluse I and Class II Posts in the College 

of Nursing , New Delhi. 


Name of the Post 


Qualifications , experience and age Ilmits required 


(0) Principal, Claes I 


Essential: 

(1) A Master s Degree in Nursing . 
( 11 ) Registered Nurse and Midnifc . 
(lit ) About 10 year s teaching experience of which about 

8 years should be in an administrative capacity . 
Dosirable : 
Post-Graduate qualification in Nursing either General 

or Public Health . 
Age , Below 45 years . 


168 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1958 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


Essential 
(1 ) Director, Child Guidance Clinic (O) A Master s Degree or equivalent qualification in 
C1488 . 

Psychology . 
(it) About 2 years experience of work connected with 

the Child Guidance Clinics and /or Mental Hy 

gicpic Clinic . 
(it) About 3 years teaching experience in College of 

Nursing Schwol. 
( iv ) Some Administrative experience , 

Pgc : - Between 35 and 45 years. 
( iii ) Vice-Principal I (Nursing Edi ca - (1) A Master s degree in Nursing of a recognised Uni 
tlon ) Class 1. 

versity (Nursing Education ) . 
(11) Registered Nurse and Midwife . 
( 111) About 5 years teaching experience . 

Age Below 45 years . 
(iv ) Vice Principal II (Public Health ) (O A Master s degree in Nursing of a recognised Uni 
Class I . 

versity (Nursing Education of Public Health Nur 

sing ) . 
( i ) Registered Nurse and Midwife . 
(it) About five years teaching experience including 

experience of Public Hсalth Nursing. 

Age :- Below 45 years. 
( 0) Senior Sister Tutor I ( Class II (1) A and Class B . Sc., (Hons.) degree in Nursing or a 
Category I) . 

Ist Class B . Sc ., degree in Nursing. 
(it) A registered Nurse and Midwife. 
(it) Five Years teaching experience in Nursing. 
( iv ) Sister Tutor s certificate or advanced study in 

Nursing Education Master s degrce desirable. 
(U ) Three years practical experience of hospital and 

Public Health Nursing desirable , 

Age Below 35 Years , 
(vi) Senior Sister Tutor II (Class (O A and Class B . Sc. (Hons). degree in Nursing or e 
II Category I). 

1st Class B . Sc . degree in Nursing. 
(11) A registered Nurse and Midwife. 
( iit) Post graduate qualifications in Nursing Education 

desirablc . 
( iv ) Administrative experience as a Matron in a hospital 

of 200 beds or more . 
(0 ) At least 5 years teaching experience desirable . 

Age : - Below 35 Years. 
( vi ) Public Health Teacher (Class ( A 2nd Class B .Sc. (Hons.) degrec in Nursing or a 
II Category I ) 

Ist Class B . Sc. degree in Nursing . 
(ii ) A registered Nurse and Midwife . 
( int ) Advanced training , in Public Health Nursing . 

A Masters degree desirable . 
( iv ) Five Years ? cxeprience in Public Health Nursing. 

Age Below 35 years . 
(viii) Ward Teaching Sister in - (1) A and Class B . Sc (Hons.) degree in Nursing or a 
charge Class II Category I 

19t Class B . Sc. degree in Nursing . 
( ii ) A registered Nurse or Midwife . 
(iii) Post graduate qualifications in Nursing Eduation , 
(iv ) Five years Nursing experience which at least 3 

yeary should be spent as a Ward Teaching Sister , 

Age -- Below 35 years , 
(1x ) Assistant Surgeon , Edwina (1) Should be a registered Medical Graduate possessing 

Mountbatten Mobile Nursing a qualification Included in one of the schedules to the 
Clinic, (Class II Category II) 

Indian Medical Council Act , 1933 . 
( ii ) About 2 years experience in the profession either 

in a hospital or a dispensary , 
Desirable : 
Post- graduate qualifications and experience in Public 

Heath , 
Age : - Below 35 years . 


Part I - Sæc , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1986 


169 


Essential: 
(* ) Dietition . (Class II Category O A Master s degrte , at least Second Class , in Home 
11 ). 

Economics with specialisation in Nutrition . 
( ) A good knowledge of Nutrition in India and to 

understanding of diet in discapes . 
Desirable ; 

(1) Teaching experience of at least one year. 
( it) Experience in the dictctic Department of a Ho % ) la . 
Age : Below 35 years , 

Essential: 
( l) Lecturer in English (Class II At least a Second Clans M . A , or 3 years Honour 
Category II) . 

degree in English of a recognised University . 
(in) About 3 ycars teaching experience . 
Desirable : 
Experience of teaching English to degree students . 
Age :- - Below 35 years. 

Essential: 
(* ) Lecturer in Psychology (Class A first Cings Master s or equivalent Honours degree in 
II Category II). 

Psychology preferably with some previous teaching 
experience , OR , a Second Class Master s or equivalent 
Honours degree in Psychology with about five ycare 
teaching experience . 
Desirable : 

1) Degret or diploma in Education , 
(it) Experience of teaching preferably in Psychology. 
(1 ) Post - graduate diploma in Child Guidance . 

Age :- Below 35 years , 
( xii) Lecturer in Hindi ( Class II Essentiai: 
Category II) 

O At least 2nd Clagg Master s degree in Hindi of a 

recognised University , 
(it) About 5 years experience of teaching Hindi in 

colleges to the degree classe8 . 
Desirable : 

Hogours in Hindl-Prabhakar qualification End 

knowledge of Sanskrit up to degree standard ), 
(11 ) Degree or diploma in teaching, 
Age Below 35 years . 


APPENDIX III 
Details of concession in age limits to displaced persons from Pakistan 

The upper age limit prescribed in the Rules will be relaxable upto a maximum 
of 3 years if the candidate is a bona fide displaced person from Pakistan and 
upto a maximum of 6 years if the candidate belongs to a scheduled caste or a 
scheduled tribe and is also a displaced person from Pakistan . 


The above concessions are liable to change as sanctioned by Government from 
time to time, 


APPENDIX IV 
Special conditions of service relating to promotion , seniority , leave , etc . 
(1) Selected candidates shall be required to serve normally at Delhi. 

( ii ) Oficers appointed to the seryice will be debarred from private practice 
or giving tuition . 

[No, F .3 - 21 /51 -MI(MII) .] 
A . V . VENKATASUBBAN , Dy . Secy . 


170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11 , 1956 


[PART IISec . % 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 
S . R . O . 301. The following draft of certain further amendments in the 
Calcutta Port Rules , published with the notification of the Government of India 
in the late ] War Transport Department No, 9 - P ( 19 ) / 42 , dated the 3rd December 
1943, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of the powers 
conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 of the Indian Ports Act , 1908 (XV of 
1908 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 6th March 1956 . 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


Draft Amendments 
In the said rules 
( 1) to rule 61, the following proviso shall be added , namely : 
" Provided that no flat or boat required to be registered under the Registra 

tion of Barges Rules, 1952, shall be registered and licensed by the 
Commissioners , unless it has been registered by the Registering 
Authority , Government of West Bengal and has had her registered 
number branded according to the provisions of the said Registration 
of Barges Rules , 1952, and no number shall be branded on such fat 

or boat by the Commissioners Boat Surveyor ." ; 
(2 ) for rule 66 (d ), the following shall be substituted , namely : -- 
" (d ) the registered number branded on the flat or boat by the Commissionera 

Boat Surveyor, or the registered number marked according to the 

provisions of the Registration of Barges Rules , 1952 , and " ; 
(3 ) in the last paragraph of rule 67, after the words " Every flat or boat 80 
licensed ” at the commencement, the following shall be inserted , namely : 
" other than a flat or boat required to be registered under the Registration 
of Barges Rules , 1952 " . 

[NO , 9-PI(261) / 55. ] 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


Ministry of Natural Resources and Scientific Research 

New Delhi, the 1st February 1986 
S . R . O , 802. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Mines 
and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act , 1948 ( LIII of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Mineral Concession 
Rules , 1949, namely : 
In rule 58 of the said Rules, for the words " Imperial Bank of India " , the 
words " State Bank of India " shall be substituted . 

[No. MIL- 159 ( 15 ) /55. ] 
G . C . JERATH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( Ports and Tolographs ) 

New Delhi- 2, the 28th January 1956 
S .R . O . 308 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1) of gection 7 
of the Telegraph Wires (Unlawful Possession ) Act, 1950 (LXXIV of 1950 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made 


PART II - SEC, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1966 


171 


in the schedule appended to the notification of the Ministry of Communications 
(Posts and Telegraphs Department) , No. S .R .O . 473 , dated the 7th March , 1952: 
Under " Madhya Pradesh " in column 1 of the said schedule for the terms 

" Sub - Inspector of Police " and " Assistant Sub - Inspector of Police " the 
term " Station Ofcer " shall be substituted . 

[ No . NM .5 - 14 / 64.) 
V . M . BHIDE , Dy . Secý., 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1956 
S .R . O , 301. — Wliereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary 
to acquire certain evacuec properties in the State of Bombay for a public purpose 
being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, 
including payment of compensation to such persons; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub - Section ( 1 ) of 
Section 12 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 
(44 of 1954 ) it is notificd that the Central Government has decided to acquire , 
and creby acquires , the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ; 


THE SCHEDULE 
All rural plots in village abadis in the State of Bombay , that is to say, plots 
situated in any area in that State outside the limits of a corporation , a munici 
pality , a municipal committee , a notified area committee , town area or a small 
town committee or a cantonment as these limits existed on the 15th August 1947 , 
which have been declared or deemed to have been declared as evacuee properties 
under the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, (XXXI of 1950 ) except 
all such properties falling under any one or more of the following categories , 
that is to say : 
( 1 ) any such property 
( 1 ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at 

the date of this no . ification under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , in which the question at issue is 

whether the properly is or is not evacuee property ; or 
( ii ) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any , fixed for filing an 

appeal or revision under the said Act for disputing the vesting of 

the property in the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired ; 
( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of a 
certificate under sub - Section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , is pending at the date of this Notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation fixed for making such application 
has not expired ; 

( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the 
Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of 
which an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is 
pending at the date of this notifcation , or in respect of which a certificate under 
sub - section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub 
section ( 2 ) of that Section for its restoration has been made; 

( 4 ) any such property which before the date of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration 
of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) , or in respect of which any pro 
ceedings are pending at the date of this notification under that section ; 

( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the meaning of 
the Evacuee Interest Separation ) Act, 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) ; 

( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee 
property or not; 

( 171) any such property which at the date of this notification is being treated or 
is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of & religious or 
charitable nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section II of the Administration of the 
Evacuee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) . 

(No. SIII- 4 (6 ) /55.] 


12 _ THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, PEBRUARY 11,1956 


172 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


( PART II Sec. 3 


PM 


New Delhi , the 2nd February 1958 


S . R . O . 305 ,- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
( 44 of 1954 ) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Hari Krishen AB 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post . 

[No. 5 /5 / 58 -SII. ) 


New Delhi, the 3rd February 1966 
8 . R . O . 306. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1964 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the following officers as Settle 
ment Officers for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer , 
by or under the said Act, with effect from the date each took charge of his 
otice : - 


( 1) Shri S . S . Sharma, District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer - cum - Settle 

ment Officer, Bareilly , 
( ii ) Shri B . B . Lal Bhardwaj, District Relief and Rehabilitation Officer 
cum -Settlement Officer , Dehradun , 

[No. 8 / 5 / 56 - S. II.] 


8 . R . O . 807 .- In supersession of the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Rehabilitation No. F . 10 ( 109 ) S .I /55, dated the 29th June, 1956 , 
the Central Government, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of 
sub - gection ( 2 ) of Section 16 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and 
Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) hereby appoints , every Officer for the 
time being holding the post of Revenue Divisional Officer on general duty in 
mutassal, Assistant Superintendent of Stamps in Madras and the District Collector. 
Nilgiris to be the Managing Officer for the custody , management and disposal 
of compensation pool within his jurisdiction , 

(No. 1014/ 56 - S. II .) 
M . L . PURI, Under Secy . 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1956 
S .R . O . 308 /BDWS/ Am . ( 5 ) / 06 - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 4 of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 
1948 ( IX of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Bombay Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 
1951, the same having been previously published as required by the said sub 
section , namely : - - 


Amendment 
After clause 40 of the said Scheme, the following clause shall be inserted , 
namely : 

" 40 - A . Special provisions for action in an emergency . - ( 1 ) If at any time the 
Chairman of the Board is satisfied that an emergency has arisen which will 
seriously affect the working of the port, he may , by order in writing and for such 
period as he may from time to time specify therein , make a declaration to that 
effect : 

Provided that no such declaration shall be made except with the previous 
approval of the Central Government. 

( 2 ) So long as an order under sub - clause ( 1 ) is in force, the following provi 
sions shall apply , namely : 


( i) If any allegation is made that a registered employer has failed to carry 
out the provisions of the Scheme, the Chairman may, after holding a summary 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


173 


inquiry into the allegation , take any of the following steps as regards that 
employer , that is to say , he may 

( a ) give the registered employer a warning in writing, or 
(b ) direct that the name of the registered employer shall be removed 

forthwith from the employerst register either permanently or for such 

period as he may determine . 
( il) It any allegation of indiscipline , " go - slow " or mis - conduct is made against 
a registered dock worker , the Chairman may suspend him forthwith pending 
Inquiry , hold a summary inquiry into the allegation and take any one or more 
of the following steps agalnst that worker, that is to say, he may 
( a ) determine that for such period as he thinks proper , that worker shall 

not be entitled to any payment under clause 34 , 
(b ) give him a warning in writing , 
( c ) suspend him without pay for a period not exceeding three months, 
( d ) give him fourteen days notice of termination , or 

( e ) dismiss him . 
(3 ) The provisions of the Scheme relating to disciplinary action against regis 
tered employers and registered dock workers shall not apply to any order passed 
by the Chairman under paragraph ( 1) or paragraph ( li ) of sub - clause ( 2 ) . 

(4 ) No appeal shall lie from any order passed by the Chairman under para 
graph ( 1) or paragraph ( ii) of sub - clause ( 2 ) . 

(5 ) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Scheme, so long as an order 
under sub - clause ( 1 ) is in force , the Chairman may authorise the employment 
of unregistered workers directly by registered employers and payment to such 
unregistered workers directly ." 

[No. F . Fac. 73 ( 87 ) /56.] 
K , N , NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1956 
S . R . O . 309 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Motor and General 
Insurance Company, Limited , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specifled in the Schedule hereto annexed , 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication , 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , 
the Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under sectioin ? 
of the said Act. 

THE SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Shri Shibendra Mohan Majumder was justified and / or 
the relief if any , to be granted to him . 

[No. LR - 11 ( 1 ) / 56 . ] 
R . C , SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 4th February 1956 
S . R . O . 310 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Parasea Collieries 
Limited and the South Parasea Collleries Limited and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1956 


( PART II — SEC. 3 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( c ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal at Dhanbad constituted under section 7 of the said Act. 

THE SCHEDULE 
Whether the termination of the services of certain Mining Sirdars in January 
1956 was justifled and , if not, what relief should be granted to them . 

- [No. LR - II -55 - 1 ( 1) / 56 - I.] 
S . R . O . 311 . — Whereas by an order of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Labour No, LR - II - 55 - 1 ( 1 ) /56 - I , dated the 4th February 1956 , an industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Parasea Collieries Limited and 
the South Parasea Collieries Limited and their workmen has been referred to 
an Industrial Tribunal for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
gection 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence in the Parasea 
Collieries and the South Parasea Collieries , 

[No . LR - II-55 - 1 ( 1 ) 756 -II.] 
K . D . HAJELA , Under Secy . 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1956 
S . R . O . 312 . - In the annexure to the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, No, S . R . O . 3675 dated the 30th December 1954 , published 
on pages 2593 to 2595 in Part II Section 3 of the Extraordinary Gazette of India 
dated the 30th December 1954 the following corrections shall be made : - 

Under Zone 1 Southern Command 

for Lonavlai read Lonayla 
Under Zone II — Southern Command 

for Krishnarajapuram read Krishnarajapuram 
Under Zone II — Eastern Command 
for Mahauri read Manauri. 

[No. LWI 7 (32) 55 . ] 
F . M . NATHANIEL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi-2, the 6th February 1956 
S . R . O . 313 . It is hereby notified for general information that the names of 
the following members of the first Advisory Panel of the Central Board of Film 
Censors at Bombay having been determined by lot under the proviso to sub - rule 
( 1 ) of rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorsphip ) Rules , 1951 the said members 
shall retire with effect from the 11th February , 1958 : - - 

1. Shri M , M . Begg ; 
2. Shrimati B . Tarabai. 

(No. 14 / 1 / 55 -FC . ] 


S .R . O . 314 .- In exrcise of the powers conferred by sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1951 read with sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 
10 of the said rules, the Central Government hereby re - appoints after consultation 
with the Central Board of Film Censors the following persons as members of 
the Advisory Panel of the said Board of Bombay with effect from the 11th 
February , 1950 : 

1. Shri M . M . Begg ; 
2 . Shrimati B . Tarabai, 

[No. 14 / 1 / 56 -FC .] 


PART IL - Sec . 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , FEBRUARY 11, 1958 


173 


New Delhi-2, the 7th February 1956 
S . R .O . 315 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 2 ) of section 6 
of the Cirematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952), the Central Government hereby 
directs that the Alm entitled " The Treasure of Pancho Villa " and its trailor 
produced by the R . K . O . Radio Pictures Inc., U . S . A . shall be deemed to be 
uncertified Alm in the whole of India . 

( No . 8 / 25 / 55 - FC . ) 


ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 6th February 1956 
S . R . O . 316 .- - In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the 
provisions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . R . O . 945 , dated the 28th April, 1956 the Central Government with previous 
approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifles Alms specified 
in column 2 of the schedule hereto annexed in all their language versions, to 
be of the description specified against each in the corresponding entry of column 
5 of the said schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


S . No . 


Title of the Filin 


Name of the 
Producer 


Source of Whether a scientlic Alm or all 
Supply film intended for educational 

purposes or a film dealing with 
nows and current events or . 
documentary film , 


Indian News Review 

No . 381. 


Film dealing with news and 

current events , 


Government of Government 

India , Films of India 
Division , Flims Divi 
Bombay , sion , Bombay . 


2. Villages and Women 


Do. 


Do. 


Documentary film 


3. Kheda Operation 


Do. 


Do. 


Do, 


4 . Spring in Kashmir 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


[No. 14 /2 / 56 - FD : App /70.) 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER GOVT, OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1966 


