T'fxpA *f ' 2 22 


RWISTERED No. D. 222 


f 

3)RcTj{l9li( 

&he Gazette of <3tidi& 

jnftnnv xanfom 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


4“ l] *lf STfxXTT, TlXiCft 2, 1971^ 12, 1892 

No. ri NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY a, Wi/PAUSA xi, 189 a 


fw rm 4 fcm ( j B 5 #^nr $ fxwft ft? 75 to 1 

Separate paging la (riven to this Part In order that It maT be filed 
as a separate compilation. 


xm II — fit®* 3— (ii) 

PART II — Section 3 — Sub-section (ii) 

(TXT 4X1 TI Et SjtfTTT) MTTR TOUT fi EXT hfl tfx (4* ^X sttfHf T it fljtfXT) 

srrfsnxrxf am xrflfviin«ifxf*p»> «nwr wfr wfarfjxTn* 1 

Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern* 
ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories) 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 11 th December 1970 


S.O. 1.— -In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 116C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
the judgment of the Supreme Court of India dated the 16th October, 1970, In 
appeal against the Order dated the 28th March, 1908 of the High Court of Judica- 
ture. Andhra Pradesh, at Hyderabad in Election Petition No. 20 of 1987, 



IN THE SUPRE ME COUR T OF INDIA 


Civil Appellate JuaiipicTioN 


R. Rao 


Civil Appeal No- 1480 


Versus 


If 1968 


Sab 

f* 


Shaf 


N. G. Ranqa 

y-AcA V JUDGMENT 
J- — At a bye^lVtlbn 




Appellant . 
Respondent „ 


to elect a member of the Lofc 


bye-electlon held in April 196' „ „ __ 

bha lom the Srikakulam Parliamentary constit lency there were two contesting 
"Qkla.es Boddepalll Rajagopala Rao — hereinaf er called ‘the appellant’ and 





2 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part R— 


N. G. Rang a — hereinafter called ‘the respondent’. The respondent was declared 
elected. The appeLant filed an application in the High Court of Andhia Eradesh 
to set aside the election of the respondent on the ground that the respondent had 
committed diverse corupt practices described in s. 123 (1) (A) (a), (b), (5) and (6) 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951- The respondent denied tr.e allega- 
tions made in the petition. He ajso submitted that the allegations weie vague 
and indefinite and some of those allegations did not constitute any conupt practice 
within the meaning of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. The appellant 
amended the Petition and submitted particulars of certain corrupt practices set out 
in the original petition. The appellant then filed his additional written statement- 
The High Court heid on a detailed consideration of the evidence that the corrupt 
practices alleged by the appeLant In the petition were not proved, and dismissed 
the petition. The appellant has appealed to this Court under s. 110A of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951- 

Counsel for the appellant restricted his argument to the following charges net 
out in the petition : 

(1) A charge of bribery in respect of an amount of Rs, 4,000 paid to a 

candidate in the election as gratification for not standing for election, 
Rs. 10,000 for constructing a high school building in the village 
Kothakota with the object of inducing the voters in the village and 
three other contiguous polling stations to vote for him; and Rs. 1,000 
paid for completing the excavation of a well in consideration of promiae 
of votes for the respondent. Thereby corrupt practices of bribery 
within the meaning of s.l23(IA) & (IB) were committed; 

(2) Providing on the day of polling a number of motor-vehicles for the free 

transport of voters to the polling stations, and especially motor-jeep 
No. APK-9486, motor-lorry No. APK 9250, motor-lorry No. APG-3511 
and motor-bus No. APS-1315- Thereby a corrupt practice under 
s- 123(5) was committed; 

(3) Causing the printing and publication of a leaflet containing false and 

defamatory statements in relation to the personal character of the 
appejant- Copies of the leaflet were distributed at several meetings 
held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam and other places, The 
respondent and his election agent also exhorted, with the object of 
furnishing the Image of the appellant and lowering him In the estima- 
tion of the voters, the voters at those meetings not to vote for the 
appellant who It was alleged had misappropriated public funds- 
Thereby the respondent committed a corrupt practice under s.l23(4) 
of the Representation of the People Act. 

(4) That the account of the expenditure returned by the respondent did not 

disclose many items of expenditure which were Incurred In connection 
with the election. The respondent had expended a sum exceeding 
Rs. 3 lakhs, and the expenditure returned was a gross under-estimate 
of the expenses incurred by the respondent In connection with his 
election- Thereby he committed a corrupt practice under s. 123(6) 
read with s. 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

In respect of the charge of bribery there were three heads— (1) that the respondent 
and his election agent G. Latchamna Induced one Suvari Sanyasi Apparao not to 
£tand as a candidate at the election by paying him Rs- 4.000 as gratification. 
According to the appellant Suvari Sanyasi Apparao who was defeated in the 
contest for a seat in the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in the general 
elections held In 1902 and February, 1957, intended to contest for the Lok Sabha 
Seat, in the bye-clection and was canvassing support before the appointed date for 
filing nominations, but the respondent and his election agent at a meeting 
on March 29, 1907 in the travellers' bungalow at Amadalavalasa dissuaded 
Suvari Sanyasi Apparao from contesting the election In consideration of payment 
of Rs, 4,000. This was denied by the respondent. In support of his case the 
appellant examined Suvari Sanyasi Apparao P.W. 24 and B. Suryanarayana P.W.25. 
He relied also upon two documents Exts. P-41 and P-83. In rebuttal the respondent 
relied upon his own testimony and of his election agent Latchbana. Suvari Sanyasi 
Apparao was also examined as a witness R.W. 2. The respondent examined a 
number of other witnesses 1C. Chalapatirao Patnaik HW I, Bend! Aopala Suri RW 
S, Dola Jagannatha Rao. R.W, fi. Sylada Pyditalli Naidu R-W- 9. B, Achuta Raju 
R.W. 10. B Naravana Swamy R.W. 15, Kolaganti Sathi Raju R-W. 25 and Ookma 
Chandra Rao R.W. 26 and re 1 led upon certain documents. The - two witnesses 
examined on behalf of the appellant deposed to the circumstances loading to their 
presence at Amendalavalasa Travellers’ bungalow and payment of Rs. 4,000 to Suvari 
Sanyasi Apparao by Latchanna after the respondent and Latchanna had requested 



Sec, 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 3 


.him not to file the nomination paper and to help the respondent m the election. 
The learned Trial Judge made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that 
there were “contradications and material discrepancies" in the statements of the 
witnesses for the appellant, and that the statements of the witnesses “did not 
Inspire confidence”. The burden of proving that the respondent and his election 
.agent went to Amadalavalasa travellers’ bungalow and persuaded Suvari Sanyasi 
Apparao not to tile his nomination paper in consideration of receiving a bribe lay 
upon the appellant. The two witnesses examined on his behalf are, as found by 
the High Court, "highly Interested and their testimony was rebutted by the 
witness named by him as the persons present at the time. Besides, the evidence 
of the witnesses as iound by Ihe High Court was discrepant and did not accord 
with probabilities- Both thg oral and documentary evidence falsified it- There 
weie inherent improbabilities in the allegation itself.” No substantial argument 
was advanced before us to persuade us to take a different view, 

(ii) In respect of the charge of bribery of Rs. 10,000, it was alleged in the 
petition that Latchhana, election agent of the respondent visited Kothakota at 
'0.00 F-M. on April 26, 1967 and paid Rs. 10,000 to one D. Jaganatha Rao a resident 
of that village for constructing a high school building in that village. The pay- 
ment, it was said, was made with the object of inducing the voters of Kothakota 
and three contiguous polling stations to vote for the respondent. This was denied 
by the lespondent, In support of the allegation the appellant examined Dhavaia 
Appaila Suri P.W. 7, Kusumanchi Adinarayana P.W. 8, Calala Ramulu P.W. 9 and 
Ambada Appaila Suri P.W. 11 and relied upon some documentary evidence also. 
In answer the respondent examined himself, his election agent and witnesses 
K. Chalapatirao Patnatk, R.W. 1, DoJa Jagannatha Rao R.W. 6, D, Kondaith 
■Choudari R.W. 8 and Alla Venkatarao R.W- 16 and relied upon certain documentary 
evidence. On a consideration of the evidence the learned judge observed that 
The entire oral evidence in support of the appellant’s case was “highly discrepant” 
and did not “merit credence". The High Court observed that 1 the petition did 
not refer to the place of incident, whether it was rice mill premises or outside the 
rice mill where the payment is alleged to have been made- While some of the 
witnesses said it was rice mill premises itself, others said that it was near the 
rice mill". The High Court also observed that "apart from the Interested nature 
and the fact that their testimony was replete with material contradictions, there 
were inherent improbabl'itles in the story told, which made it highly difficult to 
■■accept the testimony”. After considering the testimony of the respondent and his 
witnesses the Court observed that (he oral testimony on behalf of the appellant 
was inconsistent and did not make out a ease of corrupt practice, that the pro- 
babilities of the case were strongly against the appellant’s contention and there 
was no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the witnesses for the respondent. 
Even in respect of this charge of corrupt practice no argument seeking to persuade 
us to take a dilferent view was advanced bv counsel for the appellant. 

(ili) In respect of the third head of the charge of bribery, it was alleged by the 
appellant (n his petition that at Fathokota a village falling within the limits Of 
Budarslngi polling '.lotion the respondent, and his election agent convened an 
■election meeting on April 23, 1967, that the villagers assembled at that meeting 
requested the respondent to donate a sum of Rs. 1.000 to complete the excavation 
of a well in return for their votes, and that as directed by the respondent on the 
same day at about 5-00 P.M. Naginem Venkayya agent of the respondent paid 
Rs. 1.00 to Biridhar and Judisti, members of the village Youth League in the 
presence of the Sarpanch and village elders. In support of this plea the appellant 
examined Khanda Judlshlra Kumaio P.W 17 and Chinchalam Satyanarayana 
P-W. 18 In rebuttal, the respondent examined himself, his election agent 
Eatchhanna, Kavuri Venkaiah R.W, 28, Glridhar Kumar R.W. 13 of village 
Fatakota and two others of Ihe same village Harlnarayan Dolao R.W- 17 and 
Nanking Mumarao R.W. 18. On a consideration of the evidence the Court held 
that the evidence on behalf of the appellant was "marred by improbabilities”, and 
it could not be accepted. Again the evidence for (he respondent in the view of the 
High Court was “sufficient to disprove the corrupt practice” aheged. The High 
Court held that the corrupt practice was accordingly not established even in respect 
of this head of charge. Counsel did not urge any substantial argument to persuade 
us to take a different view. 

The charge of corrupt practice under s, 123(5) arose out of the allegation that 
Eatchanna produced a number of lorries, jeeps, motor-cars, buses and other vehicles, 
for free transport of voters to the polling stations on the date of polling. It was 
averred In the petition that, jeep No. APK-948G was used for the free transport of 
voters between 10-00 A.M, and 2-00 P,M. on the polling day from Kllloi village and 
Killoi colony to the polling station at Konkadapattl. The jeep, it was said, carried 
the Swatantra Party Flag as well as the agent of the respondent one Dunkuru 
Mangules. This was witnessed by the Presiding Officer, among others, when a 



4 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, * u, J8U2 [Pakt II— 


complaint was made by the agent of the appellant Nadia Naiko to the Presiding 
Officer. In support of this plea ot corrupt practice the appellant examined three 
witnesses Papi Naidu, Presiding Officer P.W. 10, Hadla Naiko P.W. 20 and 
D. Ramamurthy p.W. 20. The respondent denied that the ieep APK-9486 was used 
for transporting voters as alleged. According to him the vehicle belonged to thp 
Swatantra Party and stood registered in the name ol Nargyan Dandekar Secretary 
of the Party. 

D. Ramamurthy P.W. 26 was examined on behalf of the appellant in support of 
his case on this plea of currupt practice. The witness said that the jeep was 
entrusted to him at Sompata to deliver it to Dunkum Mungulo, Polling agent of 
the respondent at Konkadaputti. According to the witness it was jeep 
No. APK 9486 which Latchanna had brought from “Guntur side for purposes of 
election’’, that the jeep was delivered to the polling agent for bringing voters from 
neighbouring villages to the polling booths, that the jeep was used for that purpose 
from 10 A-M. to 2.00 P-M, and that he reached Konkadaputti at 9-30 A,M, and 
remained near the polling station till 2-P.M- asking voters to vote for the “Star 
Symbol’’ of the Swatantra Party, The learned Judge observed that the witnesses 
“did not impress him as a witness of truth and it was Impossible to place reliance 
upon his testimony’’. His story that the voters were transported free of charge in 
the jeep to the polling station on the date of polling could not therefore be believed. 

Papi Naidu, the Presiding Officer, stated that a complaint was lodged by the 
agent of the appellant that the voters were being brought by the supporters of the 
Swatantra Party to the polling station. The witness also stated that he saw voters 
getting down the jeep and joining the queue and that there were 7 or 9 such voters. 
But the witness admitted that the people who were getting down the jeep were not 
known to him, that he had no opportunity to get them identilled, that they had 
joined the queue but whether they were voters or not he could not say, that he 
asked the agent to put his compiaint in writing but that was not done, and that 
the agent was not known to him and he had never even seen him afterwards. The 
witness did not mention this incident in the report “as such complaints were not 
usually mentioned at all ” He did not give the number of the jeep, ror did he 
state that he had seen the Swatantra flag on the jeep. He could not vouch for 
the fact that those who alighted were voters or that they had voted at that polling 
station. In the view of the learned judge the testimony of Papi Naidu, P-W. 10, 
did not satisfy a±l the component elements of the corrupt practice alleged.” 

Hadia Naiko was the polling agent of the appellant. He stated that Dunkuru 
Mongalo was bringing voters from Killoi Colony and KlUot village between 10 A-M. 
and 2 P.M. seeking this he told Dunkuro Mungalo that it was not proper for him 
to bring the voters in jeep cars and when the latter asserted that he had a right 
to do so, he complained “to the Presiding Officer who asked for a written complaint 
Which he could not comply with as he was not proficient enough to write one and 
none on behalf of the appellant had come who could do the needful.” The- 
witness did not give the number of the jeep nor the names of the voters- In the 
view of the learned Judge “Procurement of the jeep for free conveyance was not 
proved.” The High Court, observed that it was unnecessary to discuss the evidence 
on behalf of the respondent for the appellant had failed to establish the corrupt 
practice alleged. The next head under this charge of corrupt practice as alleged 
by the appellant related to the use of motor-lorry No, APK-9250 which was flying 
the Swatantra Party flag and was used for free transport of voters on the polling 
day between 10 A.M. and 4 PM. from the surrounding villages to the polling 
station at Guttavalil. During one of the trips, it was said, there ensued a free 
fight between the persons who were carried by the lorry and ethers win were 
present near the polling station as the former raised slogans acclaiming the res- 
pondent and denouncing the appellant. A complaint was given to the police by 
some of the voters that they were being conveyed in the lorry, two of those voters 
being Kotta Appanna and Sarpanch Slnupanapalaum. It was admitted therein 
that while they were being transported for exercising their vote for the respon- 
dent there was obstruction from the supporters of the appellant Sanapalli Manumula 
Appalaw and his son and that a free fight ensued, The respondent denied these 
allegations. In support of the allegations, the appellant examined Kolia Appanna 
P.W, 12, Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P.W. 16, Sanapala Narsinha Rao P-W. 21, Sanapali 
Raja Rao P.W. 24 and P. Chandra Rao P.W, 27. In rebuttal the respondent examined 
Jammana Jogi R.W. 7, Carlmalla Kameswara Ran RW. il and Dannana Appanna 
R.W. 23 and relied upon “the first information” which was lodged about thg> 
fight. The High Court analysed the evidence of the witnesses on behalf of the 
appellant. In regard to the testimony of Kolia Appanna P.W. 12 the High 
Court observed that his assertion that he went in a lorry was “highly doubt- 
ful” and that the story deposed to by the witness was ’ "palpably false”, that thqr 
story that the witness Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P.W- 16 that he travelled by the 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 5 


lorry was "open to doubt”, that testimony of Ganapala Narasimha Bao who is 
"closely related” to the appellant “was tainted”, and that the evidence of Sanapali 
Raja Rao p.W 24 was also "not oellevable”. On a review of the evidence the High 
Court observed that the number of the lorry was not given by any of the witnesses, 
and there was no eviderce about its ownership. There was again no evidence ‘‘as 
to iiS procurement for free conveyance” and "the alleged use ol the vehicie for free 
conveyance was, therefore not established. Thus the contention as to the alleged 
Incidence must be held against the appellant.” 

The third branch under this head related to the use of motor-lorry No. AFG-3911 
and motor-bus No. APS-1315- It was alleged in the petition that the two -vehicles 
were “flying the Swatantra Party flag” and were used for transporting voters free 
of charge on the polling day to Torrivandan polling station from Buruinwada and 
Appanyaturu that a report was lodged by Boyana Kanakaiah and B. Mumaray to 
the police Sub-Inspector of Kothun who was on election duty at Sarnakota stating 
that a number of voters were being carried by lorry No. APG-3911 and bus No. 
APS-1315 to vote for the respondent, that the Sub Inspector recorded the state- 
ment of the bus conductor, the lorry driver and other persons and that a mediation 
report” was also prepared In that connection. The respondent denied the a. lega- 
tions. In his additional written statement he also pleaded that there was absence 
of essential particulars relating to the names of the voters and that the petition 
did not disc ose a cause of action since the allegations did not make out a corrupt 
practice. Jn support of his case the appellant relied upon his own evidence and 
the evidence of the witnesses Boyana Kanakiah P.W. 13 and Boyina Kama Raju 
P-W. 14. It was the case of the appellant that those witnesses had seen the inci- 
dent and had given a report promptly to the Sub-Inspector of Police, and that Sub- 
Inspector had detained the motor-lorry and bus and got a mediators’ report prepared- 
But the Sub-Inspector of Police to whom the report is alleged to have been made 
was (though cited as a witness) not examined in the case and the report or the 
proceeding started pursuant thereto were not brought on the record. After the 
evidence was closed the appellant applied for calling the Sub-Inspector as a Court 
Witness but the application was rejected. Boyana Kanakiah P.W. 13 and Boyina 
Kama Raju P.W 14 are cousins of the appellant. In their evidence they did not 
specify the persons who used the said lorry and bus on behalf of the respondent, 
nor did their evidence disciose the names of the voters conveyed by the said lorry 
01 bus. 

In the view of the High Court the conditions of a corrupt practice falling within 
the meaning of s. 123(5) of the Representation of the People Act were not 
established. The High Court pointed out that even if it be hold that what Boyana 
Kanakiah P.W. 13 and Boyina Kama Raju P.W. 14 said that certain persons 
travelled by the lorry and bus was true unless it was established that the voters 
were taken to and from the po'ling stations at the Instance of the respondent, no 
charge of corrupt practice can be deepied to be made out for not a sing,e person 
was named and no person was brought before the Court to prove that he travelled 
in the bus or the lorry. The High Court held that the case set up in respect of the 
two vehicles was also not established. 

The finding of the learned Trial Judge is based upon appreciation of evidence 
of the witnesses In the light of probabilities. A charge of corrupt practice under 
the Representation of the People Act must be established by clear and cogent 
evidence. When the Court of First Instance on a consideration of the evidence of 
the witnesses has refused to place any reliance upon their testimony the burden 
lying upon the party setting up a plea of corrupt practice becomes no lighter in 
appeal. The charge cannot be held established merely upon suspicion, or prepon- 
derance of probabilities. Unless the appellant establishes that the appreciation of 
evidence was vitiated by gross misreading or misconception of the evidence or 
because of failure to consider important pieces of evidence which had a bearing 
on the charge of because or serious irregularities in procedure which amount to a 
denial of a fair trial the appellate court will not proceed to reappreciate the 
evidence on which the findings are recorded hr the Court of First Instance on the 
credibility of witnesses. 

The third head of charge reiates to the printing and publication of a leafflet 
defamatory of the appellant and falling within s. 123(4) of the Act, it was stated 
In the petition that one Dola Jagannatha Rao agent of the respondent caused the 
printing and publication at the instance of tbp election agent of the respondent of a 
leaflet containing the following false and defamatory statements in relation to the 
Personal character of the appellant : 

(a) that the appellant misappropriated large amounts to the tune of about 
Rs. GO lakhs balonging to the Co-operative Sugar Factory and the Co- 
operative Central Bank for his own ends; 



6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 1, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 |Part II— 


(b) That the Supreme Court confirmed the Order of the High Court sen- 
tencing the appellant for contempt of Court the leallet posed the 
question whether the Congress Party could not get a candidate with 
better character and record of selfless public service? 

The appellant said that the leaflet was printed at Sri Ramakrishna Printing works 
at Srikakulam and the printing expenses thereof amounting to Rs. 85 were accord- 
ing to the appellant defrayed by the election agent of the respondent, that the 
election agent of the respondent caused the distribution of those leaflets at several 
meetings held by the Swatanira Party at Srikakulam at 9-00 P.M. on April 24, 
1967, at Mandasa at 6-00 P.M. on April 21, 1967, at Takkali at 7-00 PM. on Aprii 
20, 1967 and at Palasa at 11-00 A.M. on April 21, 1967 and at other places to 
sponsor the candidature of the respondent to a seat in the Parliament. It was 
further averred that the respondent and his election agent exhorted the people 
at those meetings not to vote for a person who had misappropriated public funds. 
The respondent denied that he and his election agent had knowledge or had con- 
sented to, or were concerned with the leaflet, its printing, publishing and dis- 
tribution. He a so denied that he or his election agent exhorted ttw wffers as 
alleged by the appellant. 

The leaflet in question is in the form of several interrogations. The caption 
of the leaflet in “Peoples’ Questionnaire to the Respected Minister,” The relevant 
part of the leaflet is; 

‘T. Did not 18 gentlemen including Andhra Pradesh Congress Secretary- 
Srikuklapu Lokshammana Das, District Board President Sri Gorie 
Sriramulu Naidu. Ex-Assembly member Sri Andhavarapu Tavitayya, 
Sri Challa Narasimbulu Naidu and others, present a memorandum in 
June 1966 to the Chief Minister and to the Minister for Co-opeiation 
stating that Sri Boddepalll Rajagopala Rao, who is to contest as a 
Congress Party candidate in the Srikakulam Parliamentary Consti- 
tuency bye-election on the 27th of this month, had misused like water 
nearly 60 lakhs of rupees of governmental monies and peoples’ monies 
belonging to Co-operative Sugar Factory, District Co-operative Cen- 
tral Bank and such other Co-operative institutions which were treated 
as his own and managed under his control? What action has been 
taken against it by the Government? 

2. Did not your Government appoint the Regional Officer of Co-operative 

Societies, Panchayati Samiti, Amadalayalasa, to inquire Into the affair# 
of the Gandhi Building Society which is managed under the control 
of Sri Boddepalll Narayana Murthy who is the brother of Rajagopala 
Rao, member of the Legislative Assembly? Could any body deny 
the fact that when that officer brought to light the inner secrets and 
brought them to the notice of the Government, Ihe Government on 
the ground that that officer did not obey their Instructions, brought 
him out In the mid-night, beat him almost to death and broke hi# 
legs and thrown him on the road? Is he not stiff In the hospital? 
When he complained to the polico authorities, what action has been 
taken? Is there no protection under your Government to your officers 
who are just and impartial? 

3. Did not the Supreme Court confirm the fine of Rs. 500 imposed by the 

High Court on Rajagopala Rao for contempt of Court because he 
flouted the orders of the High Court in that he bv force, oppressive 
behaviour and threat to the Factory Manager, forcibly took all ballot 
papers and himself, acting as an Officer, conducted the Sugar Factory 
elections In an irregular manner? When it ia clearly stated in ths 
Co-operative Act that such persons should not be even prlmar: 
members in Co-operative societies, could you tell how this perso 
could still be In the governing body of co-operative societies?, 

Could you not get a candidate who is better and who could render selfless service 
to people? Of course, It Is difficult to get men of High and moral Calibre In the 
1907 model congress? 

Section 123(4) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, defines one of 
the corrupt practices, as under: — 

“The publication by a candidate or his election agent or by any other person 
with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement 
of fact which is false, and which he either believes to be false or does 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1392 7 


not believe to be true, in relation to the personal character or con- 
duct of any candidate, or in leiation to the candidature, or with- 
drawal, of any candidate, being a statement reasonably calculated to 
prejudice the prospects of the candidate’s election.” 

To constitute a corrupt practice under s, 123(4) four conditions are required 
to be fulfilled; (1) that there should be publication of a statement of fact relating 
to the personal character or conduct of the candidate; (2) that the statement should 
be false; (3) that the person making it shouid either believe It to be ialse or 
should not believe it to be true and that the statement was reasonably calculated 
to prejudice the prospects of that candidate’s election; and (4) that it was pub- 
lished by the candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the con- 
sent of a candidate or his election agent. If the public, n n by a person other 
than the candidate or his election agent, the consent of liie miiuidate or his elec- 
tion agent must be established befo.e the charge is held proved. Proof of express 
consent is not necessary; Inference of such consent may be raised from the cir- 
cumstances. Prior knowledge of the consents and tile knowledge that it is likely 
to be published may raise an inference of consent. If the candidate deliberately 
keeps quiet and does not stop the ■> inllcation 11 it be within his power. Where 
the oilending matter has already been published and theieafter it comes to the 
knowledge of the candidate at the election and he does not take steps to repudiate 
it, the consent may not necessarily be inferred unless the candidate or his election 
agent permits or aids m publication. Section 100 of the Act sets out the grounds 
on which the election may be held to be void and one of tho grounds is that 
if the High Court is of opinion that any corrupt practice has been committed 
by a returned candidate or his e ecrion agent or by any other person with the 
consent of a returned candidate or his election agent, the High Court shall declare 
the election of the returned candidate to be void. Meie commission oi a corrupt 
practice Is not sufficient; it is proof of consent of the candidate or his election 
agent to the commission of the corrupt practice which require the Court to declare 
the election void. In the matter of publication of statements which a~e false and 
are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate’s election 
proof of consent not infrequently assumed great importance for even if it be 
proved that the publicatior has been made, unless it is shown that it was with the 
consent of the candidate or his election agent, the corrupt practice may not be 
held to be committed so as to Invalidate the election. Case of publication without 
authority or with a view to great evidence by interested persons against the candi- 
date who Is likely to be successful are not unknown. 

It is not in dispute that the leaflet Ext. P-257 was published. The leaflet was 
again reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellant’s election. 
Parts of the leaflet related to the personal character and conduct of the aopellant 
and were defamatory of him and were like'y to lower him In the estimation of 
the electorate. 

It is not necessary to decide whether the statements of fact made were false, 
for the High Court has held that it is not proved that the respondent or his elec- 
tion agent was concerned with the publication or distribution of the leaflet, and 
we agree with that view. 

The evidence on this part of the case may be considered in three sections; 
evidence relating to the printing of the leaflet, evidence relating to the distribution 
of the leaflet at the meetings held at several places as part of the election com- 
palgn of the respondent; and evidence relating to the making of oral statement 
reproducing fhe contents of Ext. P-357 at those meetings, 

It is common ground that one Dola .Tagannatha Rao procured the leaflet printed 
at Sri Ramakrlshna Printing Works at Srikakulam. It was averred in the elec- 
tion petition that the printing expenses were defrayed by Latchanna the election 
agent of the respondent and that Latchanna had caused distribution of the leaflet 
at several meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam on April 24, 1967; 
at Mandasa on April 21, 1967; at Takkali on April 20, 1907; and at Palasa on 
April 21, 1967. This was denied by the resoondent. D. Jagannatha Rao was ex- 
amined as a witness for the respondent. lie deposed that he did get the leaflet 
printed on his own account and not at the instance of anybody else, that he 
defrayed the expenses and paid on Aoril 9. 1967 the printing charges amounting 
to Rs. 85, that he wrote the draft of the leaflet In his house at Srikakulam; that 
no one else was present on that occasion, that he did not consult any other person 
nor did he take anv othc- pe 'viti’s advice in that behalf, that before he took 
it to the press he did not show it to any other person, and that as the printers 
could not properly decipher the manuscript they got prepared a fair copy b.y their 
own employee. 



8 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II 


The witness admitted that he was a Swatantra party worker and put his signa- 
ture on the fair copy of the leaflet. Consent of the candidate or his electron agent 
to the printing of the pamphlet cannot be inferred from that circumstance, to 
establish the consent of the respondent or his election agent to the printing ot the 
leaflet, the appellant examined the Managing proprietor of Sri Ramakrishna Print- 
ing Works who deposed that D. Jagannatha Rao placed with him an order for 
printing 10,000 copies of the leaflet Ext. P-357 and that in his books of account 
the name of D. Jagannatha Rao was entered as of the person who ordered printing 
of the leaflet. The witness stated that D. Jagannatha Rao had brought the written 
matter oil 2 or 3 pages, and that the Manager of the Printing Press got “it fair 
copies’’ and took his signature on the fair copy which is Ext. P-358. At the time 
when he took delivery of the printed leaflet, D. Jagannatha Rao paid an amount 
of Rs. 85/- for printing charges, The witness stated that one Chelapeti Ruo also 
came over to the printing press but only after D. Jagannatha Rao had paid the 
charges, and that Chelapati Rao had nothing to do with that leaflet. In support 
of the evidence the witness produced Exts. P-34G and P-348-1 copies of the order 
and the voucher evidencing payment by D. Jagannatha Rao. This testimony 
fully supported trie case o£ D. Jagannatha Rao. There was some discrepancy 
about the date of placing the order. D, Jagannatha Rao said that the order was 
placed on April 7, 1967, the Managing Proprietor said it was on April 4, 1967, 
but that was a minor discrepancy which did not afl'ect the testimony of either 
witness. 

This evidence did not support the case of the appellant. He examined D. ftama- 
murthy P.W. 26 who stated that the leaflet Ext. P-357 was drafted in the house of 
Latchanna by K. Chelapati Rao Patnaik to the dictation of Latchanna in the pre- 
sence of Dola Jagannatha Rao, that one week thereafter the leaflets were got 
printed by Chelapati Rao Patnaik and Dole Jagannatha Rao, and that Latchanna 
gave them Rs. 300/- and sent them to Srikakuiam. In cross-examination the wit- 
ness stated that he would not write Telugu, though he could read a little. He 
also admitted that he was not usually consulted in any matter, hut whenever re- 
quired the members of the party used only to take work from him. To explain 
his presence at the drafting of the leaflet he stated that Latchanna called him on 
April 25, 1967 at his residence, that when he reached Latchanna’s place the leaflet 
was being drafted and that he was detained till the drafting was over and there- 
after he was sent away. The witness could not explain the reason why the leaflet 
was not printed at Guntur, Witness D. Rimamurthy sought to support the case 
of the appellant on several other matters. The High Court observed that his state- 
ment was “highly artificial”, that there \va3 no reason why he should have been 
called by Latchanna to be u witness to the drafting of the manuscript of the leaflet, 
and that the ‘artificiality of his statement was obvious on the face o! It and further 
his testimony did not hear scrutiny at all”. Nothing has been said before us which 
would justify us in taking a different view. 

Chalapathi Rao R.W. 1 was examined on behalf of the respondent. He denied 
that he wrote the draft or took any part in the printing of the leaflet at Latchanna’s 
Instance. He said that he had seen the leaflet for the first time only after it was 
printed and D. Jagannatha Rao had taken delivery and never thereafter, 

Latchanna denied all knowledge in connection with the printing and dictation 
of the contents of the leaflet Ext. P-357. 

Th eevidence clearly does not make out the case of the appellant. It was the 
case of the appellant that Latchanna got the leaflet drafted and printed. From 
the mere fact that D. Jagannatha Rao was a partyman and a member of the State 
Council of the Swatantra Party of which Latchanna was the President, and that 
D. Jagannatha Rao had contested on the Swatantra Parly ticket for a seat in the 
Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly In the general elections in 1967, no Inference 
arises that the leaflet was published with the consent of the respondent or his 
election agent. 

At the trial the appellant relied also upon the publication of the contents of 
the leaflet in two weekly newspapers — Bahujana and Vahini — In their Issues of 
April 17, 1967, and April 24, 1967 respectively. In the first newspaper the caption 
shows that it was a questionnaire of Srikakuiam public to the Minister: ard in the 
second newspaper the caption showed that it was a questionnaire by tho Srrikakulsm 
public through D. Jagannatha Rao, President of Nagrakatakam Swatantra Party. 
Latchanna is the printer, publisher and editor of Bahujana. The contents which 
were published in the Bahujana largely tally with Ext. P-357. The caption, - 
However, is different, Latchanna deposed that he did not send the leaflet for 



Sec. 3(h)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 


publication in the newspaper from Srikakulam to Hyderabad. He denied the sug- 
gestion that It was not D, Jagannatha Rao but he himself who caused the publica- 
tion of the article in Bahujana ■ He further stated that though he was the editor 
of the paper he was away from Hyderabad and in his absence his brother’s son G. 
Kranti Kumar was editing the paper, and that he came to know of the publication 
many days after the election was completed. There was no allegation in the peti- 
tion that the publication in the Bahujana was caused by Latchanna or by the res- 
pondent. The evidence brought before the Court could not cure the defect in the 
pleadings. There Is no evidence also that either the respondent or his election 
agent Latchanna had knowledge before the date or the publication or even before 
the date of the election of the respondent. 

It was said that the respondent had expressed his thanks for the work done 
by the Vahini newspaper during the election. This was not a matter relevant 
to the issue under consideration, and the High Court was right in holding that it 
would be extending the scope of the inquiry contemplated to be made on the alle- 
gations made in the petition to huold that by reason of the pblication in the Vahini 
and Bahujana the respondent or his election agent were guilty of any corrupt 
practice. In the petition it was expressly averred that the leaflet Ext. P-357 was 
published by the respondent and his election agent. It was not pleaded that the 
contents of the leaflet Ext. P-357 with some modifications were published In the 
Vahini and Bahujana and that by that publication a corrupt practice under 
s. 123(4) was committed by the respondent. 

The appellant also alleged that at meetings heM at four places— Takkall, 
palssa, Mandasa and Srikakulam— these leaflets were distributed. In support of 
this ease Suri Suryanarayana P.W. 25, D. Ramamurthy P.W. 26, Kirtichandra 
Rao P.W. 28, C. V. Babu Rao P.W. 29, M. Narayana Rao P.W. 30 and Sana Veera- 
bhadra Rao P.W. 31 were examined. In rebuttal, K. Chalapati Rao Patnaik R.W. 

1, Suverl Sanyesl Appa Rao R.W. 2, Bandi Appalla Suri R.W. 3, D. Kondaih Chou- 
darl R.W. 8, Carimella Kameswara Rao P.W. 11, S. Narayana Swamy R.W. 15, 
Narayan Dandokar R.W. 20, S. Chandraih Naldu R.W. 21, N. Veerachari R.W. 22, 
Bendalam Rama Murthi R.W. 24, Allu Suryanarayana R.W. 29 and Raj Vallath 
Mlsra R.W. 30, besides the respondent and his election agent, were examined to 
disprove the case of the appellant. The case of the respondent was that he was 
not present at any of the meetings except at Srikakulam which he attended at its 
concluding stage, Latchanna also denied that he was present at any of those 
meetings. 

The High Court made a painstaking analysis of the evidence of the witnesses 
relating to the holding of the meetings and the distribution of the leaflet Ext. P-357 
and the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondent, which ran into as many 
as 23 printed pages, and in conclusion observed: 

“From the above discussion it is clear that it was Dola Jagannadha Rao 
himself who got printed Ext. P-357 of his own accord and neither the 
respondent nor his election agent was In any way concerned with it. 
The respondent and the election agent were in no way connected with 
its publication, when several thousands of copies of the pamphlet had 
been printed (hey must of course be for purposes of distribution. 
Dola Jagannadha Rao could have personally distributed them or 
caused their distribution through others. But there is no positive 
evidence that these pamphlets were distributed amongst the public 
either by Dola Jagannadha Rao himself or by the election agent, as 
alleged, or to the knowledge of either the respondent or his election 
agent,” 

We see no reason to disagree with the view of the High Court on the evidence. 

The question which remains to be considered is whether a corrupt practice 
falling within Rub-s, (6) of s. 123 was committed by the respondent. Incurring 
or authorizing expenditure In contravention of s. 77 is a corrupt practice. Section 
77 requires that every candidate at the election shall either by himself or by nis 
election agent keep a separate and corrupt account of all expenditure in connec- 
tion with the election Incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent bet- 
ween the date of publication of the notification caking the election and the date 
of declaration of the result thereof, both dates Inclusive, By sub-s. (3) of s. '7 the 
total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed. 
For the parliamentary election an amount of Rs. 25 000/- was prescribed as the 
maximum amount to be spent. The respondent hubmitted a return alsciosmg 
■ expenditure of Rs, 15,834-92. 



10 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part Ji- 


ll was averred In the election petition that the total expenditure of Rs. 15,834-92 
returned by the respondent aa election expenditure under r. 80 was a “gross under- 
estimate of the expenses incurred by the respondent in connection with the election’’ 
that the respondent had not included in the account various items of expenditure 
incurred and also “given grossly diminished figures in respect of items included 
therein”, that “it was obvious that his accounts did not reflect Ihe expenditure 
actually incurred, but it only represented a fictitious figure manipulated with a 
view to conform to r. 90”. It was further averred that a large amount aggregating 
to Rs, 3 lakhs and more was spent for the purpose of the election. After setting 
out certain argumentative matters, it was stated in the petition that the expendi- 
ture in respect of the following items “had been suppressed or diminished or 
reduced in the account rendered by the respondent”: 

(1) the amount of Rs. 1,193/- paid to Vijaya Auto Service under voucher 

dated April 30, 1967 for the purchase of diesel of, motor-spirit and 
lubricants was not included; 

(2) though in fact the respondent incurred and paid an amount of 

Rs. 10,000/- for the purchase of motor-spirit from the Esso Standard 
Bunk Srlkakulam, only an expenditure of about Rs. 200/- was shown 
in the account of election expenses; 

(3) that an amount of Rs. 6,000/- was spent for the purchase of motor- 

spirit from Esso Standard Bunk, Sompct, but only Rs 007-94 were 
shown In the account; 

(4) that various amounts aggregating to Rs. 10,000/- were paid at dillerent 

bunks for motor spirit and diesel oil but those amounts had been 
deliberately suppressed from the account. Thereafter five names of 
the proprietors of those petrol bunks were mentioned. 

The petition then proceeded to say that the total expenditure Incurred on motor 
spirit was far In excess of Rs. 1,000/- odd shown In the account rendered, and that 
the motor spirit purchased during the period from the motor spirit bunks at Srika- 
kulam, Sompet, Itchapuram, a Amadalavalsa and Takkall and other places was 
“ridiculously low”, that a number of lorries from outside or within the District were 
engaged by the respondent during the last week of the election for propaganda 
purposes, as also on the polling day for conveying voters to the polling stations, 
and the expenditure on diesel oil, drivers and cleaners in respect of those vehicles 
had not been Included in the account. The petition then referred to the expendi- 
ture on “wall posters”, on printing, distributing and exhibiting them was far below 
the account incurred, and only an amount of Rs, 2.081/- was shown as expenditure 
incurred by the respondent in his account of election expenses on that account. 

It was then stated that the expenditure incurred by the respondent in respect of 
"cycle rickshaws and jutkes” was not shown, that wages and maintenance of about 
1,000 workers for about three weeks and about 1,500 polling agents on the day of 
poll “was not accounted for”, that no expenditure incurred towards boarding and 
lodging of the workers at the election ’’was accounted for”; that the amount of 
Rs. 4,000/- paid by the election agent of the respondent Venkayya to Sri Venkates- 
wara Lodging and Boarding Sri kakulam was suppressed in the account” of elec- 
tion expenses; and finally an amount of Rs. 500/- incurred for the purchase of 
voters’ lists for the seven assembly constituencies was also not included. 

The case of the appellant was sought to be proved by examining a large num- 
ber of distributors at "petrol bunks” from whom motor-spirit was purchased on 
cash in respect of various vehicles. It was sought to be proved that a large num- 
ber of vehicles were used for his election campaign by the respondent and the 
expenditure incurred according to the appellant exceeded Rs, 23,000/- for motor- 
spirit alone. A copy of a bank account maintained in the name of Latchanna with 
the Andhra Bank Ltd., Srlkakulam, was tendered in evidence to support the case 
of the appeRant that large amounts were withdrawn from time to time during fhe 
election days and it was suggested that all the money withdrawn was utilised by 
Latchanna for the election campaign of the respondent. It was the respondent's 
case that Latchanna did not have custody of the funds intended to be used for the 
election campaign, that he, the respondent, had kept his money for the election 
campaign with one Kavurl Venkaiah and that the latter spent the amount for 
election purposes. The respondent said that the amount spent by him was partly 
his own and partly received from donations. He denied that any election fund 
was opened by him, nor was such fund opened by Latchanna. He further stated 
that apart from Rs. 3,500/- provided by him in cash and Rs. 5,000/- being the 
proceeds of a cheoue received by him as donation, a sum of Rs, 6,000/- was handed 
over to Kavurl Venkaiah and that some postal money orders addressed to him 
were received by Venkaiah in his absence. Those amounts were sent by his. 



5ec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1.971/PAUSA 12, 1892 in 


friends who were interested in him. The total amount that was received by way 
of donations or contributions from others was Rs. 18,000/- or Rs. 19,000/-! The 
entire amount was not spent for the election, and Venkaiah who had opened a 
bank account and kept the amounts in that account, returned the balance to him. 
According to the respondent the expenses of the election were met out of the 
amounts maintained in K, Venkaiah’s name and not from the monies that belong- 
ed to Latchanna or the Swat antra Party or any other person. The case of the 
respondent was supported by Venkata h. Latchanna a iso supported that ca-e. 
Latchanna, was the President of the State Swatantra Party, He stated that in 
the general election, the Swatantra Party had spent large amounts of money and 
had incurred debts, and m order to pay off those debts the party had asked for 
donations from members of the State Party and also the Central Party, that an 
appeal was also made to the press to invite donations and also a request was 
made to the Central Party to make some grants, that in March and April 1967 
some amounts were received hi respect of which he maintained an account with 
the State Bank, Srikakulam, and a joint account in the State Bank at Sompeta 
in the names of his wife and himself, that certain amounts wore received in his 
name by cheques and drafts and they were put in the joint current account at 
Srikakulam, but not one pie out of this account was used for the bye-election, 
and out of the amount that was left as balance after discharging debts he paid 
Rs. 16,000/- for the purchase of a jeep for the Central Party. 

A, mere general allegation that more than Rs. 3 lakhs were spent by the 
respondent or his election agent or other persons for the purposes of the election 
is not sufficient to make out a case under s. 123(6) of the Representation ol the 
People Act, 1951. It is not sufficient merely to allege that large sums of money 
were spent for the purpose of the election. 

It is the case of the respondent that his friends and sympathisers sent him 
certain sums of money, and that whatever monies were received by him or in 
the name of his wife or by Vcnkaiah under his authority remained with Venkaioh. 
These receipts aggregated to Rs, 19,000 out of which Rs. 15 834-92 were spent 
for the election. Expenditure, if any, incurred by the party which sponsored the 
candidature of a candidate cannot be taken into account for the purpose of deter- 
mining whether the corrupt practice within the meaning of s. 123(7) was com- 
mitted by the candidate. In Flavian java Singh v. Baijnath Singh and others (i) 
this Court held that expenditure incurred ,by persons other than candidate for 
election purposes will not be taken into account (unless it is incurred by such 
third person as the candidate’s agent) in determining whether a corrupt practice 
was committed by the candidate: see also Ram Dayal v. Brijraj Singh (-) and 
Meghraj Patodin v. R. K. Birla ('•'). It is true that Latchanna had from time to 
time withdrawn from the Andhra Bank various amounts of money. Those amounts, 
he says, were utilised for satisfying the debts of the party incurred in the gene- 
ral elections. There is no evidence to the contrary led by the appellant. Nor is 
there any evidence to show that the respondent had received any amount in 
excess of Ri. 19,000/- out of which he claimed he had spent Rs. 15,834-92. 

A considerable body of evidence was tendered by the appellant to prove that 
a large number of vehicles were used for the election campaign of the respon- 
dent. Many witnesses were examined to support that case. The High Court 
made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that only four vehicles Nos. 
APK-B486 jeep. (2) APU-7414 Ambassador car (3) APY-7719 Ambassador car and 
(4) APG-4320 Fiat car, were retained and used for “election purposes’’ and 
expenses for purchase of motor-spirit and oil for those vehicles during the elec- 
tion days were shown in the account. Besides this, in the view of the High Court, 
two more vehicles Nos. APG-2123 and APP-97 were used for some time for the 
purpose of the election. These two vehicles were taken by Balaram and Chitti 
Babu once to Kanchili petrol bunk, and to that extent they may be held to have 
been used for the errand of the respondent. Taking into account this amount, 
the total amount in relation to the motor-spirit use for Kanchili was Rs. 1,141-13 
The High Court held that on the evidence, the cash bills which were produced 
by the appellant in respect of the motor-spirit expenses were not connected 
with the motor vehicles of the respondent or of his agent or of any vehicles 
maintained by the respondent for election purposes. The High Court found the 
books of account of Vljaya Auto Service and the "Petrol Bunk” of Malla Satya- 
narayana and Brothers at Kanchili unreliable, and held that only those bill-books 
may be taken into consideration which recorded transactions signed by persons 
admitted to be the agents of the respondent. The High Court accordinglv held 
that in addition to the amount admitted by the respondent an amount of Rs. 1,521-21 
was proved. No substantial argument was advanced before us challenging the 
findings recorded by the learned Trial Judge on the auestion as to the expendi- 
ture incurred for the motor vehicles employed in the course of the election of the 



12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


respondent, and we see no reason to disagree with the conclusion recorded by the 
High ourt on a very elaborate painstaking analysis ot the evidence. 

It was urged that as many as 1100 persons were employed by the respondent 
during the election days in' the campaign for the respondent, and besides their 
remuneration expenses for their boarding and lodging were incurred by the 
respondent, and that amount was not disclosed in the account filed under s. 77(3). 
It was the case of the respondent that several persons had worked for the Swa- 
tantra Party candidate at the election. According to the rules of the Swa- 
tantra Party they worked voluntarily, and no remuneration was paid to any of 
the workers, because payment of remuneration to any party worker was against 
the principles of that party. The High Court held that transport charges and 
expenses for meals for the workers were not incurred by the respondent, but by 
the Swatantra Party. In argument it was conceded there was nothing to show 
that any expenditure was incurred by the respondent for those workers, Venkaiah 
had, it is said, paid under the directions of Lutchanna certain amounts of money 
for the expenses incurred for the workers of the Swatantra Party. But in the 
absence of any evidence to show that any specific sums of money were expended 
on certain items by the respondent or his election agent, no conjecture can be 
permitted to defeat a candidate who has been elected. 

Towards the boarding and lodging expenses of the workers, it appears, Simma 
Jagannadham, President of the District Swatantra Party, had paid Rs. 5,000/- and 
Rs. 1,2100/- after the election. It was proved by the evidence that the party office 
was in the house of Simma Jagannadham. The workers were lodged and board- 
ed at a place called Sri Venkateswara Lodging and Boarding Lodge at Srikaku- 
lam and the expenditure incurred for them was met by Sri Venkateswaram 
Lodge. The amounts which were paid by Simma Jagannadham were not shown 
to be paid towards the expenses of lodging and hoarding of the workers at Sri 
Venkateswara Lodge. The Manager of Sri Venkateswara Lodge apparently 
boarded and lodged those workers free of charge. In the absence of any reliable 
evidence to the 1 contrary, the finding of the High Court that no expenditure was 
incurred in respect of those workers by the respondent must be accepted. 

The appellant’s case that expenditure was incurred for “Wall Posters’’ and 
for printings, distributing and exhibiting them amounting to Rs. 2,081/- was not 
pressed, nor was the case about the expenditure incurred in respect of “cycle- 
rickshaws and jutkas” uressed before us. Even if it be granted that an amount 
of Rs. 500/- which was incurred for purchasing voters’ lists he taken Into account 
the total amount proved to have been expended by the respondent does not 
exceed Rs. 25,000/- prescribed under the Act. 

We have carefully considered the evidence in the light of the arguments 
advanced at the Bar, and we are of the view that no case is made out for our 
lnteference with the conclusion recorded by the High Court, 

The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs. 


New Delhi, 
October 16, 1970. 


Sd/- J- C. Shah, J. 

Sd/- A. N. Gbover, J. 
[No. 82/AP/20/67-] 
By Order, 

ROSHAN LAL, Secy. 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25 th November 1970 

cq g Whereas Election Commission is satified that Shri Laxman 

Prasad" Gupta S/O Shri Badri Prasad. General Ganj, Laxmi Cottage, Mathura, 
DNlrlct Mathura Uttar Pradesh, a contesting candidate or Mid-term general elec- 
tion 1969 to the’ Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 3 6 6-Mathura Assembly 
Constituency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE GF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 13 


2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission Is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure;. 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shrl Laxman Prasad Gupta, to be disqualified 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order. 

[No. UP-LA/ 366/ 69 (159)-] 


ETT* fHfpE ETdH 

wmr 

E$ fsesft, 25 EPR7, 1970 

qrtfo (fto 2. — FT: fWbPT FTTH PI EETNTE ft ETT | fa NcfiT RTF fTOT'T 

eet v fw Es-mrfsr ETtm^r Hrm 1 969 f %tr 3 6 6-e*J7T net fHrfHr P fete 

FH 7TF -3HHT7V «ft FCTE TFTF JJRrr FW Nt Ht EEPT EETH EE, FEET TIEN, E«pT 

Ftp Ff:f ffacP wftrfHE, 1951 net afttH fept ipr fHEt am «tHwr fifer e 

$ EFT fHfpT stnrf PI N'T! TrfNF pH E TOFF | ; 

2. PL, TFT fHHER E, REP $FET fH FlE qr vft TOEf TO.FTOT 

% Ftt pH pitot tott ptHHrt Eft fHr tot FtpIpp fitH pi cf to we ft to 

$ fp FTP TIP ?E TOP TOT P fpnr pH TEH FTTO NT TOWfFTO Efl f ; 

3. p-t:, to, fto pftrfpptr pfr snvr 1 o-p % v-jfto e ItoHe pi pH pto 
^* rrt pp pr ftoe top? jjrt p> ef? % ?Ht eH) e Sr fWr *ft eto % pi fatfr tito 
H fPETPT EET TOEt fTOTE pfTPX % RUN fH FTE pV< fH P %r, *F snHr PI aift’P 

pH to pt prpipfp p fFP froffE ptHp ptpt 1 1 

['To Fo Po-Ho Po/366/69(l59)] 

S.O. 3. — -Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shrl Mool Chand, 
S/O Shrl Pyare Lai, R/O village and Post Office Barsana, District Mathura, Uttar 
Pradesh, a contesting candidate for Mid-term General Elections I960 to the Uttar 
Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 367 Chhata Assembly Constituency, has fai ed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has net given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 1.0A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shrl Mool Chand, to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis- 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council ol a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this order. 

[No. UP-LA/367/69C160).] 

qpo «ft° 3- — Pd: fWHP PTPH PT TOPTPT ft TOT | fp NR 7 pHl fTOTE 
FET % Htr EdTOEftr EPJTTO fppfpp 196 9 F Hit 3 6 7-NTrtT TOT fHiNF W F 
^TlpT pH PIN JwftTOI 7 sft EH PR H RTt HiH, fTOlH TIE iffa Et ° ETOTET, 
flRT jpr T, "~xf“ sr?P Ftp TfpfufNFr pFHHp, 1 95 1 PET TPTP tjTT fiizpft 

gp-r ptHtt pH HtHt rpt pi pH H Hrr tiTpf pH e pepf t| | ; 



M 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


2. sfft FT:, TFT RTRYfFTv 3, RF OTT ^RFT fed RTF RF Ft W 'Ff OTWI I 

% FRF TT'TT FTFFT dfY foil | ; FFT fFFWF WRYf F T F^ FRTBTTR jft 

’ITT | f% RF% i;;T F FT 'FFT % fFF Ttt RFfcT TPT FT ^FTFYPFcU FFT | ; 

3. FF:, "T, TFT TtfafTTF, FT 3T<T 1 0-T % STFFFR R fFFFR FTFYF RF^- 
FPF RTF «fY T ' T FF Tt F FT % tYrT FT Ft F F farfY tfY FFF FT FT fFFT VFHT fFtTTF 

FFT R TFT fFFTF FfFT^ % F5TR FT FeT fYf FTF HP fuE, RF 5,'T%F FF FT^ta FfftR F# 
sFTFTFftT % fdFf%F RTfRF RRFT % I 


[Fo Ro Fo-fro F°/367/69( 160)] 

S.O. 4 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shrl Kanhi, 
S/O Shri Sukh Ram, Nagia Mewa, Sahpau, Tahsil Sadabad, District Mathura, 
Uttar Pradesh, a contesting candidate for Mid-term General Elections 1969 to the 
Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 370-Sadabad Assembly Constituency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Repre- 
sentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
Teason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kanhi, to be disqualified for being 
choseh as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis- 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this order. 

[No. UP-LA/370/69 (161).] 

tTJT; tft 1 4 . — FF: fRTFFF RTTYf FF F RTF FT (?"t FFT | fdi RTTF RTF faSTTF 
FT % f'-TT R ; FT~F FT FRF fR-flFF 1 969 % f'FC[ 370-FTFTFTF FFT fFF IFF FF F 

TFT FIT FpY R’RYtFTF FT FF-fr F;TF sfY F^FTR fFFUfr FFFT FFT, FpfYF FTFTFTF 
fFFT FTF, W FFF, fYf FfffFiFFF SrfafFFF, 1951 FFT FFffYF FRtR Rfr fFFRl 
^FRT FTflTF RTF fFF?FF SRFf FT Ftf FFT RlfFF FRR F FFRF "? t ; 

2. fYf FF: , RTF TTfrRqp' F, RF FfRT FFFT fFu RTF R7 vfV STR?fY FFRFFI 
iff farr tptf TP'F FF^T FR'S'fTFR’F f^Y fdFT | ; FFT fFFfFF FTfIf FT FT FFTFTF FT FFT 
|fdPFF^RTF ?TFFRiFFTFfFFFtt RF?FT FRF FT ^FIFtfFTF ^ ) 

3. FT:, FF, RTF FfafTFR f!Y FRT 1 0-F FT FRFTF F fFFiFF FTF>T I7FF- 
STTTT RTF FT T fft E> FRF %■ Ft Ft FFFT F F - fdFfr FT FFF ^ FT fT»fY "T^F Ft fFFTR 
FRT F TFT fFFTF Ff FF *n FFFF FTF fYf f'TR V fFR, FF FT^F F^T FTFTF F FfF FF 
VY -PFTTTfF % Pfu fRvjf^F FYfFF FRFT | I 

[Fo RoFo— fFoF°/370/69( 1 6 1 ) ] 

New Delhi, the 30 th November 1870 

S.O. 5. — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Tulsl, S/O 
Shri Cholai, R/O village Aurahia, Post Office Maniram, District Gorakhpur, Uttar 
Pradesh, a contesting candidate for mid-term general election, 1.969 to the Uttar 
Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 191-Maniram Assembly Constituency, has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and in the manner as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

1 2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notices has failed to file an 
-affidavit in support of his statement that he lost his election papers and also to 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [5 


give any reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is 
Satisfied that he has no good reason or justification for such failures; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Tulsi, to be disqualified for being chosen 
aa and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this order. 

[No. UP-LA/ 191/ 09 (162).] 
7 i 30 77*77 1 97 0 

q t ' s. — 77: Purr 7 t trnrVr 77 77 ttt 7 $) ggr | fr ~tt. ttst Pt ft 

77T % ' f [ TiTnPsr 717177 pT^f^T 1 969 % P7q 1 9 l-tuftTHT 771 fTT^TH ST 7 % 
T T 7 T f Tl?T 7*717717 «f) 37(f) 337 «ft HtHlf, fTTHft 717 WTVpjrET, STW* 77 TPT 
P771 71 ‘ T PI, 777 TpTpdftHT 7p7p777, 1951 771 T^tfiH 7717 Ttr pTTTt 
^7fTl 7f T7 777 % ?F7T (ITT PtpT 7 777)77 ^?pf| 77T ’Uf’IH 7177 7 

WPf Tf ? ; 

2 T>7 T7: 717 7*7)7717, 7() 71=77 777T p77 717 77 7f 777 ^7 777 % 

77^7 7 'ft 7T%PT7?7T TTsft 7777^ 7q | %tf WT 77 7Tp37 77% 771 77?P'?7 
7T0 TT- > >t Elf 7777 7771 77^^)7177 77 7 7777 f » P7>T77 717)7 71 
7? TTT ' (t 7T1 t P7 77% 717 ?7 777771 % P77 Tit 77? c 7 7T-7T 7T ^PtPTW 
7 *¥ $ : 

3. TT:, 77, 717 7pJpT77 77 7171 10-7 % 77777 7 P7H77 *117)7 7 7^7 
JK171T 1(377) 7> 7 77% 7)7) 7771 7 7 P77f) 7% 777 % 7T PfTTT 7177 %) f*1TT 
77T 71 rt >717 7P773 % 7777 >1 777 *t)T 7>7 % PHq, ^7 *11%H %) 7»1 7 =P) 
7"? %( 71 TnftT % f>7 p7T.f?7 7>P77 7771 1 I 

[7o 7° 7°>7°7°/ 1 9l/69( 162)] 
New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 

S.O. 6- — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shrl Baijnath 
Prasad Kushwaha, S/O Shri Madho Prasad, R/O 91, Naya Pura Kareli, Post Office 
Ahmedganj, District Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, a contesting candidate for the mid- 
term general election 1969 to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 282- 
Allahabad West Assembly Constituency, has failed to lodge an account ut his 
election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

2. And whereas, the said candidate even after due notices has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure; 

3. Now, therefore, in pursuance of section IDA of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Baijnath Prasad Kushwaha, to be dis- 
qualified for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parlia- 
ment or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a Stale for a period 
of three years from the date of this order. 


[No. UP-DA/232/G9(164).] 
By Order, 

A. N. SEN, Secy. 



l6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II — 


fcvcfy 7 fsram, 197 0 

T '1° *ft° e — w: fHHfrH srrzfrr ti hhietth ft pht | fr pttt farmer 
% fnq TTETr^fsT ffra'T"'^ 1969 % frrr 282-?sn?n air 4^-4 nr ffVrr 
«tt V tttt rfr Hfrfrnr 4\ hhih fmfi «T ri^srFiEr 91 Hrr 

5 ’ T -r 0 tt fsrar rrrFmr hth- srS-sr mr sffafrfa?* r srftrfnHR, 1951 

ffTT ^TtT THTTT Tit front fHTO SfTfiTH STT^ frgfrH &pff YT Ylf vfl frfT TllW 

^ h stnrw f 1 

2 . Ufa HA:, HYT TfrrTTTT H, TH pr^Y JfHHT fen nfr 77 tff Y<frt YPWT t 
Kt ffr$ yry hhtt ^TOfr^TT Hff forr |; ?m ferNr srirfr yt Tf phtetth ft 
^‘ti | far th% tip ^p wpyvett % fercr Ytf Ttfrp yi^y or Tofrtf^T Tft | ; 

3 . m:, m, phy srfsrfTon ^ft tm:r 1 o-y % 5RF--trr h fanfrp viPfr fa- 
irer PYT 4r # nOTT STOTT f YYTf T Yt HPT % Tfr'f pTHl P P fapfi ift PTH % HT fr.jft 

TRT fa frOTH ffTT HTTT frlTTH pfrTT % PTFP YH YlH *V? ffa Y faff, f H SffeY *fa 

Hrfr J > ftT YT y) TRTTffa % fafC frfafTT TTfrrf YETI | I 

[Ho ToSTo— froH°/ 28 2 / 6 9 ( 164)] 

*rr^r 

Ho trno T.ThT 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 18th November 197 0 

S O. 7, — In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con- 
sular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby autho- 
rises Shrl D. R. Bansal, Assistant In the Embassy of India, Mogadiscio to perform 
the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect, until further orders. 

[No .T. 4330/2/70.1 


faf$r psrmfl 

y£ fTrvft, 18HTRTT, 1970 

qpo Hto 7: — rpurfrfr rfr Yfrfa HpETTrfr (w 7T Y?y) HfalWT, 
1948 Y tT'RT 2 mr (ft) 4 YT7THY P, Y?f PTYTT £P% 3T7T PTCcffa TDTJHTHH, 
Htffifr7|; # PfTTT «ft Tto !fRo sfrrT ^ Wt HHH % HHHT ffr cPF TttHrft HfipTrlt 
‘FPt ; PT^ *61 HftPHR ^fft | I 

[Ho ^to 4330(2) /70] 
New Delhi, the 21 st December 1970 

S O. 8.— In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con- 
sular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby autho- 
rises Shri M. K. Malik, Assistant In the Consulate of India, Khorramshahr to 
perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 7th December 1970, 
until further orders. 


[No. T. 4330(2)/ 70.) 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 17 


OlcSfr, 21 f«(«WK, 197 0 

TO 0 8 - — TTrofro to (wr to ’£ftr) *rfafroR; 

1948 tfV STRT 2 % (v) % SFUTUT iT, %^T TOTTO, q *lTCfEr 'PlRTHT* 

*rrfr Jr a^rro, * 4 Y to° %o irfro T?r sb% 7 Huttot, 1 970 Jr smmft 5 n%vr 

3 ft to, vlra^O vfronf w sro % faq afavff ^Tr $ i 

[r» srto 4430/2/70J 


S.O. 9 ,~ In pursuance of clause (a) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con- 
sular Officers (Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby autho- 
rises Shrl B. B. Ral, Assistant in the Vice-Consulate of India, Geneva, to perform 
the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect until further orders. 

[No. T. 4330 (2) /70.) 

P. C. BHATTACHARJEE, Under Secy. 

quo w>o 9 . — urofro to srfrorft (eto to ww) wfafroff, 

1948 tfr arrr 2 a*? (*tr) % wjtou if, stott, ^Ttt 3Hfwiw 

Jr Efrro ?ft^rc,^ro srmuft srfair fft TO, : rim^«rfTOfft 

«pt stu^ v % faq sufTOT 1 1 


Efo 4330(2)/7o] 


fa^fT, 18 TOTOT, 1970 

qffo wlo 3 9 0 2— 'urofro to ^rfWrO' (wtoto^to) *rftrfaro, 195s: 
^ 2 arc (=5) % Kfrm htott, arc Nrdk Tra^romr, 5%, n 

TOiro *fr q° TO° ett ^r wf tito % mm tfdvr ^Tt to irfrouf >ft an# 
«pt nrfron: 1 1 

[bo 4330/2/70] 
'fto ?fto 

STTO fffTO 1 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
(Department of Personnel) 

New Delhi, the 19th December 1970 

S.O. 10. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act, 1948 (25 ol 1946), the Central Government 
hereby specifies the following offences as the Offences which are to be investigated 
by the Delhi Special Police Establishment, namely: — 

(a) offences punishable under sections 114 and 450 of the Indian Penal Cod© 

(45 of 1-360); 

(b) attempts, abestments and conspiracies in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clause (a) and any 
other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts. 


[No. 228/9/70-AVD II.J 




18 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II- 


(nfir* firm) 

dtfocft, 19 1970 

*to «rfo io — feft Mr $Mr «rm trfafim 1946 (1946 vr 25 ) 
tfttrra 3 Sttt jrantifaRf tt sw>r^gtT %ijTR rttk MR faMmrrifi 
4ft tn tmraV% w it MM ^nrft $ Mr strrt Mft fa?TR 
jttt fw tirt $, *rofa: — 

(<fi) RTOftR R^ sa'f^TT ( I860 RR 45) RTTT 114 tfK 456 % Wfar 
sMta trnnr i 

(m) ms (*) it qfrnrT n* tt *t P a* «mmt trt s 

r?f % sFppr ir M ntr MV tpu wr % Rit if 

RT % it 5ETOT X?tK RSR??T I 

[BW 228 /( 9 ) /70 — -' qoiftotfto-n] 


ORDER 

jveio Delhi, the 19th December 1970 

8.0. 11. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 5, 
read with section 6, of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (26 of 
1946), and of all other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Government 
with the consent of the Government of the State of Assam, hereby extends the 
powers and jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment 
to the State of Assam for the Investigation of offences punishable under sections 
114 and 456 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), regarding the circumstances 
of the alleged tresspass into the office of the Survey of India at Shillong on the 
21st November, 1970. 


[No. 228/9/70-AVD.I1.] 
P. B. EAJAGOPALAN, Dy. Secy. 

Kl^T 

df, 19 feRT, 1970 

*t° n,o ii. — Mft Mr <jM Dim irfafaim, 1946 ( 1946 ^ 25 ) 

'tfV RTO 6 % RTR Rfod tTHT 5 ^ TRRRT { I )5KT 5FTT tfk *TT faM T?t RdH 
TPft TDft UlMfi RR RTtR ^ TOR tJffRSRT *mnT TRR «tfV TTOPTT 

«tft RfRfa A, MfV Mr jM TREtd % dTRU A dfTOdf tfk wM'lfTdt NT, tTTCftd 

( 1860 TT 4 5) N?t tsrmNTt 1 1 4 4 5 6 % SftfVd dMVd tTTTOff, Mm 

*FTOT 'RTOfW TT&Td % fWd ftRff RddfaR it 2 1 WT, 1 970 Tt WdlfaVR- 
RRUT 4»? R£dT Iff Id SETTR Mr % RTdTd TJR R MlR RTTtft % 1 

[lEOT 228(9)/70 — ITo^o^o — 1|] 


fRo *o TPRltWId, 
trTT dM ! 



9ec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY Z, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 19 

MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 

S.O. 12. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Commis- 
sions of Inquiry Act, 1052 (60 of 1952), the Central Government hereby extends 
upto the 30th June, 1971, the period within which the Commission of Inquiry 
appointed by the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs by 
notification No. S.O. 2375, dated the 11th July, 1970 shall make its report to the 
Central Government. 

[No. 25/14/70-Poll II.] 
R. VASUDEVAN, Dy. Secy. 

*1? 

21 fcwi, 1970 

Wo wto 12 — arfa OTtfEr trfaffftm, 1952 ( 1952 w 60) ifttnrr 3 am 
iran tTfwtfr w inftff jit %? 5 fpr jtwtt % trerrarcr f^r qrar (pwpc 

ITTrt{5 R5TPW ft fto «fffo tITo 2375 fwNr 1 1 OpPITf, 1970 JTO fjRJW 

artsr vrtfPr (TBftt nit imr irffftw %*tTj 30 aiff, 1971 av wt $ < 

[WTT 25/ 14/70— j T[H“II] 
wto ^rq afar* 1 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
< Department of Banking) 

New Delhi, the 19 th December 1970 

S.O. 13. — In exercise of the power® conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (3) 
of Section 7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) 
Act, 1970 (5 of 1970) the Central Government, In consultation with the Reserve 
Bank of India, hereby appoints Shri V. M. Bhide, Additional Secretary, Depart- 
ment of Banking, Ministry of Finance, New Delhi as a member of the First Board 
of Directors of the Central Bank of India in place of Shri S. S. Shlralkur with 
immediate effect. 

[No. F. 2(7)PSB-NB/70.] 
D. N. GHOSH, Director- 

fim *TRTWI 

(tfwT firm) 

ffftt fo#, 19 faism, 1970 

<pfr° ifto 13. — *rfwr wqiff (gwftf w *rk 

1970 ( 1970 W 5fft) FRI 7 ^ ST-STIT 3 ^ W (*p) ^THT SWfT irftfftff 
frr Jnftff Wft Jtr, RTWT Wreffa % ift RBT? ft qdfoflTI P-TTHff 
f^ft fcwft % ^fWr fwnr % *sft «ft 0 q?ro *rt ft »?t 

ftnnrw: % wr it % wpe rfiomr % % sttr qti w fftnw 

{ftWT 1?s»2(7) 'fl‘o^o^to-(Tq o ^o/70] 
qt to ftty fsrtvPF 






THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


Loans, Adtwossad Ifl vestments rtxn Nmo it) vgrioatturkl 

Cjedh (Long Tent Ope rat lus; Fund 


(£) State Goatnsaen i » . , 

7,71,26,600 

(a) Loan* and Advance* to : — 




(0 State Goreromeni* 

34:33 I9/W0 



(tf) Stare Co-opera tire b nks 

21,59,08,000 



(ill) Camel Land Mortgage Banks * , 

•• 

(A) Banks— 


(6) Investment in Centra t Lend Mortgage Bank 

Debentures 

9,57 02 000 

CO Scheduled Oommortial Bank* . 

i84,77^7,oc 0 

Loans and Advance* from Nation* 1 Agricultural Credit 
(Sta initiation) Fund — 


In') Scbedttied State Co-opcsstive Banks 

8 44^4.000 

Loans and Advance* toiitate Co-operative Banks , 

5,3393,000 

(£) N 00- Scheduled State Co-opesadve Banks 

70,66,000 



(A) Other Bonks 

29,83/000 

Loans, Advances f nd Investment s from '■latxmai In, ustrial 
Credit (Long 1 er n Opcratamaj Fund - 


(c) Othess 

90.09.99/j00 

(a) Loans sad Advances to the Development Bank 

27,65,71,000 

Bills Pays bis 

51,14/16,000 

(b) Investment in boaaa/acticnturci issued by the 
Development Bank 


Other Liabilitiea 

7 3,5i iP 64^oo 

Other Assets 

35*26,84/000 

Rupees 

1027^1, 54*000 

Rupee* 

1027,81,54.000 


•Includes Cash, Fined Deposits snd Short-term Securities. 

••Excluding Investment* from the National Agticulmsal CrodU (Long Term Operations) Fond aod the National Industrial Credit Long Term 
Operations) Fooa. 

<% Excluding Loans aod Advances from the N*ioaal Agncuttun 1 Credit (Loo* Team Ofxtitiaoi) Food, but including tempciuy over -draft* to 
State Governments. 

fladudes Ra. 71,04/25,000 tdvanetd to scheduled comaercia, banks agaiast usance bills under Section 17(4X0) of the Reserve Bank of India Au. 

rT£xcluding Loan* sad A 1 van es f om the National Agricultural Credit (Long fern OoexaiMos) Ftwi and tee Nat-crnii Asneukuta! Credii {Stabili- 
sation) Food. 

Dated the 16th day of December 197a 


3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 



An Account potsoanno the Reserve Beni of India Act, 1934, for the week coded the nth day of December, 1970. 

Issds Department 


LIABILITIES 

Rs. 

Rj. 

ASSETS 

R*. 

Rs. 

Notes held in the Banking Department 

18^1,424000 


Gold Coin and Bullion v— 



Notes in circulation 

4068^5,334000 


(a) Held in India 

(b) Held ooaide India 

182,53,1 1/X» 


Tqtal Notes issued 


4086,46,75,000 

Foreign Securities 

356,42^000 





Total .... 


538,95,11,000 




Rupee Coin .... 


55,19^7^)00 




Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Bills of Exchange and other 
commercial paper 


3492^2^7^>oo 

Total Lubxutub 


4086,46,75^00 

Total Assets 


4086,46,75,000 

Dated the I 6 tb day of December, 1970. 




(Sd.) S. Jaoanhathan, 
Governor. 


[No. F. 3 (3)-BQ70.] 
fC, Y^SURATNAW, Under Secy, 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1W1/FAUSA 12, 1»92 [Part H — 


(tfau ftmn) 

21 1970 

ipso «fto 14 . — 1 1 i970*Ft feat t Ht*rft*rra thrown aTfta7a i 


^raiii 


wifwnf 

■wt 

^?rr 'jtft 

. 5 , 00 , 00,000 

•fit 

18,4 1,42,000 

anftraPifcr 

150,00,00,000 

5PT%¥T Pnar 

3,48,000 



atZT ftppET 

4,18,000 

<tvjY*i i ?Ea 


aftt «frt at fta: — 


(tttwsfld fWTtt) ftfa . 

<T^4 $fir 

. 172,00,00,000 

(a) tat . 

« * 

Prfti 

. 37 ,00,00,000 

(a) fttst .... 

• * 



(a) srcarft want Sra 

23,42,83,000 

TT^a sfWtfta 


fataf t tar gin aarm* . 

101,58,00,000 

(sWvwftd f^ni) firfa , 

95,00,00,000 

Pita** 

93,64,08,000 

5rt-u rm : — 


ar*r iftr niva : — 


fa) ararft 


tl ^.^1 ^ • • • 

• • 

(i) % ? it 3 r 5Ran. 

153,11,99,000 

(ii) res* nairf at@ 

157,90,09,000 

(il) TFW tK+K 

7,7 1,26,000 

^antrafiPT : — 


(*) w 


(i) dila^a t*f atf 

208,27,90,000 

(i) swyfad aiftrsi aa 

184,77,27,000 

(ii) tj»M 0 5Wl at 1 1 

286,62,84,000 

(ii) aagfara 1 tPRi 05 + iO ta . 

8,44,64,000 

(iil) jaffat 

fP» (€ttarata fsmi) fafc % 

4,09,95,000 



^a, nPnr ate Pita 



SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 23 



fr T rr rt w OTfcrat 


(*) 


(iii) Trra Ip 

70,66,000 

(i) TPSI srwnff ?> . 

34,33,19,000 

(iv) *RI 

29,83,000 

(ii) t&q 

(iii) %?sfa fsr 

21,59,08,000 

(o) tpq 

a 0, 09, 99, 000 

(^) ^ff % fa^rft if fttn 

TTsfm ffr ^ ftfa ft 

*flr nfinr 

9,57,02,000 

*sr fa?T 

51,14,26,000 

*r*r E?vnf ^ ?fft vfim 

’CT (*Y<farafa fwni) ftfa 
% ^n, n%r <fr» fttvr 

5,33,93,000 


72,51,64,000 

{*) fro #*> *fk 4ifim 

(w) f? ira ipr *t*f/fRf*fr if fct« 

*T^ 4Ilf+8«f 

27.66.71.000 

35.26.84.000 

»r% 

1027,81,54,000 

^ .... 1027,8 1,54,000 

STRfa^ *)> *1*144 ?ffa afw^TTT *lfa8 $ ! 




**<T^T ffa ^7T ( jfeT^t iwt) frfa *fR iflgfPl-t. f^TTO[) fafa if 8 fan* ^ fat* Unfe* 8^ | 1 

@T^fpi f ftr ^*r ( gta^Hlq fwj) fHfw % ^ sftt *rfinr ^rrf^r 8ff |, flr^ifr % *iw4t ffftT?rre: infow f i 

j-f7 ^ ypE % faf ZT| i gfaf'T q H ^tOTTT 17 ( 4) (a) % S5H SEPT^f? TTf»FHI l^f fan iCf fw*ff ST wftnrf^' *T^ 7 1,04,25,000 

^ ?n^ f i 

•f-jrrefor fft ^yr fcwnj) ft fa yft Tuffa ( fW$4><m ) ftfa ir strt v* ?rfirc wifaw 8ff 1 1 

grr^rsr j ie ferm, 1970 i 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II 


ft $ *tte ffen yfaf-wq, 1934 % t fe*rm, 1970 1 1 mfta g*TF?T gt* tren? % Mr %«t 




5f<Jdl7£ W*) 



*9*? 

3T%*T fdMK ti T® §T* 


dtd Fy^r iffr ^f^nr: — 


fftr 18,41,42,000 

r^FTTffffJ 4068,05,33,000 


(t) Sr |ut 

(«) uror ir ?TgT T3TT 

?*n 

stfg^rdqi 

182,53,1 1,000 

356,42,00,000 

<*! 0 *07 dtl 

4086,46,75,000 

3f)4 

Wt $T fWPT 

*rcr tor wn 

sfirtfaut 
f*rf*m*r fin *ftr 
^rfSrsi-q?r . 

5:8,95,1 1,000 
55,1 9,27,000 

3492,32,37,000 

^5T $ ’i cTlTj 

4 086,46,75,000 

f?r urfwirf , 

40 86,46,7 5,000 

ante 16 farm, 1970 i 



o ^F'TDFT, 


" 


<P^T 1 

[ffe l?*Eo 3 (3)-*fT° ?ft o / 7 o] 


<#« ^c*m, 1 



Sec. 3(11)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 



2 6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 [Paki II— 


(Department of Banking) 

(Corporations Branch) 

New Delhi, the 18th December 1970 

S.O. 15 . — In pursuance of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948 (15 of 1948), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby nominates Shrl B. D. Pande, Secretary to the Government of India, 
Department of Industrial Development, Ministry of Industrial Development & 
Internal Trade, as a Director of the the Industrial Corporation of India vice- 
Shrl T. Swamlnathan. 


[No. F. 2 (78)-Corp/70. J} 
D. K. SEN, Under Secy- 

(ifftd fddPt) 

(mi snsn) 

d^ fccdft, 18 fem, 1970 

*to wio 1 5:-*faftfd¥ fan fadd tifafadd, 1948 (194 8 *rr 15 di) ^ 

STTU 1 0 •A' TTOITT ( 1 ) % SPU (^ ) dd tt'JdUd %dftd d <4* I <, ifltli'lPiHi- 

(tPFur tftr wrerfry *m qi < M'g ri^ n r % tfaftfw fwrd fadTd % '•mu stv r. % dfw 
afto^o qfa ifa «fr €to wffam % m it EKiflu 'qWrfw fan fddd «rr fafadv 
41 Hid VTfft ^ I 

[d° t^o 2(78)- J FTUfftVR/70)I 
ito td, Tisj-dfd* t 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

(Income-tax) 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1970 

S.O. 16 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2)(b) of Sec- 
tion 80G of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby- 
notifles Shrl Satya Gnana Sabai, Vadalar Cuddalore Dlst. to be of archaeological 
and artistic importance for the purposes of the said section. 

[No. 172(F. No. 170/14/70-ITCAD.I 
L. N. GUPTA, Under Secy. 

(YNhpm fannn) 

df factft, 23 ddfldT, 1970 

16.*-TOI dfafadd, 1961 (l96I dd 43) s^t dTO 80®- 
4W 1TT (2) (^) JTTT STd dfaddt dd Sfdtd ^TT %*#(d tK*N<. [onTaiU- 
^ dfdTrrd ddfa, dtrwTT, jy didtr faiw i dft ddd dm % tETfard ifr fat u ^ciuiRdti- 
*ftT dTdTfRT dd dtfad dntft i 1 

[do 172 (0[dio 176/ 14/7 0— dTfo dto(^ol)! 

Tdo tTd 0 OUif, WflT dfafd I 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 27 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

(Income-tax) 

New Delhi , the 24th October 1970 

S.O. 17. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (ill) of clause 

(44) of Section 2 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Govt.- 

hereby authorises Shri B. R. Sant, who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 

Government to exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 

Act. 

2. This notification shall come into force on 26th October, 1970. 

[No. 173 (F. NO. 404/167/70-ITCC.Ji 
R. D. SAXENA, Dy. Secy. 

dU tftfT fawn) 

far^fr, 24 1970 

qrro 17 . — 1961 (l961 "PT 43) UTCT 2 

(44) % (iii) I ITT SRrT HlfetRff «FT WRT £<L ifafal 

imry «fr 'tnro tfr, ^fr % /wtfair wr nfefwnH 

% trtfFr *pt 'tfftfwfr ^ wRi % fatj r/^rc srrfew i 

2. II? 'dftigw 26 1970 SPJTd fRlt I 

[#0 1 7 3, ITT 0 #0 404/167/70-^ tfV iff) 

n k 0 ?rp4*r 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1970 

S.O. 18. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (q) of sub-section; 
(1) of section 27A of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938) as applied to the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India 5y notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs) No. G.S.R. 734, dated 
the 23rd August, 1958, the Central Government hereby declares loans to the 
Housing & Urban Development Finance Corporation Pvt. Ltd. as approved 
investments for the purposes of the above section. 

[No. F. 8(27)-Ins. 11/70. ]' 
R. K. MAHAJAN, Dy. Secy. 

(TI'WT 8At tfv.T fWHFl) 
ftssfr, 8 1070 

*To wto is. — TTrarnwr, fta iirntra ^ form) i?r 

*TotTTo*PTofR 7 34, flld<a 2 3 IPRcT, 1958 $iTT *TiTff $ ffiTUT W 

1938 ( 1938 *5T 4) *?T HUT 27 * tit HWiT (l) % («r) 

5rm mPwp fi snrtir tw gir, lia^ki ?raf%iT 

%KH"RhM IRJ 'FRTTt 'SM'JlCI 9TTT % 

sp fmd l % fart ftrPTRFT qlfact VTffr $ 1 

[tic tf>To g ( 27 )-^tTT II / 7 o] 

tITTo %« Ufa* ) 



28 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part n— 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1970 

S.O. 19,— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 114 of the Gold 
■Control Act, 1968 (45 of 1168), the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing rules to amend the Gold Control (Froms, Fees and Miscellaneous Matters) 
Rules, 1968, namely: — ' 

1. (1) These rules may be called the Gold Control (Forms, Fees and Mis- 
cellaneous Matters) Amendment Rules, 1970. 

(2) They shall come Into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2. In rule 11 of the Gold Control (Forms, Fees and Miscellaneous Matters) 
Rules, 1968, in sub-rule (2), for the words “twelve months”, the words "five 
years” shall be substituted, 

[No, F.1/185/67-GC.II.] 
R, C. MISRA, Dy. Secy. 


(tuei sfwr fiom) 

Rf pFFvft, 10 ftRERT, 1970 

tfRo wto 19, — STfapERT, 1968 (1968 «FT 45) RET 1 ’4 

t^rrcr srw mflREfr qrr ttIt toi %EfPr 6 rfi < Peret (jet, 'flu - 

8T*T RTR% ) Pi*H, 1 968 t-T OvilRd 'lit.'! % fcftr pn-rTpfp!r?r PERT *i icTl ’b 1 irj : — 

1. (l) f-m Ertf Pe/sTT (TFT, SPtfW Rm%) TTCfhET PERT, 1970 

vTT TeStTI 

( 2 ) *r 5mn?ET wra t trivet q?r tePi qrt je^it 1 

2 . ET®f Pet^tt (srw, sfhc tri%) Pert, 1968 % Pert 1 1 t, tt- 
PeRT ( 2 ) T "TE^ RTR” RKT % PTET TC "<TTT T<#" *PST VpTETTfTcT Pf^ TPT^ | 

(Ro t^Tio l/l 85/67-^0^ ll] 
flTTo Tpo PER, TT RETT I 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance) 

NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 16 th December 1970 

Appointment of valuers u/s 4(3) of the Estate Duty Act, 1963 

8.0. 20. — The following additions to this Ministry’s Notice No, 5/77/68-E.D. 
dated the 6th July 1968 are hereby notified for general information:— 

The Central Government propose to appoint qualified persons as Valuers for 
Rubber Estates. The persons so appointed will be categorised as "Specialist in 
Rubber Plantation”. Accordingly, in para 2 of the said Notice after S. No. 12, 
the following shall be added — 

13. "Rubber Plantation" 

In order that a persons may be eligible for appointment as a Valuer in this cate- 
gory he must satisfy the qualifications mentioned below: — 

(1) The Valuer must be the owner or manager of Rubber Plantation of the 

size of 100 acres; 

and 

(2) be must have at least seven years’ experience in rubber plantation line. 
This will appear as Item (XI) of para 3, of the said Notice, 



Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 29 

2. The other conditions mentioned In the earlier Notice including the scale of 
charges fixed for remuneration of valuers remain unchanged. 

[No. 300/1483/70-E.DJ 

BALBlR SINGH, Dy. Secy. 


(tutt* sftr jfr-t'T fawn) 

gw 

16 1970 

w gwr nrfafwr, 1953 ^ am 4( 3) % srcfEr genimit qff fngfw 

I?*T 0 wto 20. — w WW qft gw no 5/77/68 f° cird^ 6 1968 

n fawErfanr qfwfn re wim ^ ^n-TTifr fog tt^trt ^fugfod 
fog Rfo 5 : — 

tor *nfwnr qri w? nwmf % fair gvm 1 ^' % n fag/Rr 
' 5 f R^nTTfiT TTd'r f I 7 R TTTT faWT "W TNPT R fsRTJr” ^ W i 
fog ^rm i wirtt, gw gw % w 1 2 % qwg fowfofag 

affsr 'jrrgnr wir : — 

1 3 . w wm 

mr 5 rm n gwforr % ift n fogfw %■ fog hn % fog fojfft wfw *Ft fnH 

nfw *^?ng wm grf ’TEft ^ 1 r^u : — 

(1) 100 S % >M I =ti K % H |-*| 11 W RT §Hl Rtfogi 

nfo 

(2) g% •[<?? mnm % wn w wi ^ wr nm nn w sigw jiEn d 1 Qjg 1 

gw gw % w 3#n^(ii}%^rn ?Ett i 

2 gw n nfw w m, fwr gwwf % 'rrfcnfw %■ fog fwr iron: 
ofrqfw |, nqffofw gfrfr 1 

[no 300/1483/70 fo vfo] 

wfrr fo$, si Rfan 1 


central board of direct taxes 

(Income-tax) 

New Delhi, the 3rd October 1970 

SO. 21. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
121 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Schedule appended to Its Noti- 
fication No. 20 (F. No. 58/1/62-IT), dated the 30th April, 1963 published as S.O. 



30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part A— 


'1293 on pages 1454-1467 of the Gazette of India Part II Section 3 sub-section (11) 
id a ted the 11th May, 1963 as amended from time to time: 

Against S. No. 9-B, Madras-II, under Column 3 of the Schedule appended 
thereto; the following shall be added: 

27. Refund Circle, Madras. 

This notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[No. 163. /F, No. 187/ll/70-IT(Al).] 
L. N. GUPTA, Under Secy. 


v’rta spw mx wti 

Rf 3 1970 

VTo WIo 21. — HIW’,' RfafffRK. 1961 ( 1961 W «) BTUT 121 
ipt 3 OT 7 T ( 1 ) SRI 5PTff wfwff *PT ERET TOT JtT fofttr HTffST <711: RRR 

rrr it T«rr tfntfiRr *TFfr R° 20 (t ^0 r° 55/2/62-snfo ;ft°) 

ril'd* 30 tufar, 1963 % RRRT Jr, oft RTTR % TfJETCT, RET 

2, 3, TTTPW (ii) Rid* 11 Rf, 1963, *TS5 1454—145 7 TT TT-' OTo 1293 

% *e<T ir MTi l fa ff gf «fr, fapfifapad RRlRR Trpft $ I 

SR Ro 9-*, Rtrrer II, % RlRd, RR% RRTT % RTPR 3 % fft%, PiMfRfaff 

rYr ftm RPtfiT : 

27- TTTEft Rf%R, RffTR 
tRI R file'll 'Jt'fT VEjvi sjYlft I 

(Ro 163 C[Tio Ro 1 8 7/ ll/ 7— RT^o €to (tr 0 l)] 
tTRo mfo JjtRT, sTRT fffarT I 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE 

Neu> Delhi, the 15 th December 1970 

8.0. 22. — In pursuance of Rule 7 of the Export of Mica (Inspection) Rules, 
1969, the entrhl Government hereby makes the following amendment in the 
.■"Notification of the Government of India, in the late Ministry of Commerce S.O. 
Jill, dated 25th March, 1967, namely:— 

In the said Notification, in the Table — 

for item (v) and (vii) of the entry under column 2 against serial No. IV. 
Export Inspection Agency, Calcutta at Kodarma, the following shall 
be substituted, namely — 

“(V) Shri S. P. Bhadani, M/s. Chotturam Horiram Pvt. Ltd., P.O. 
Jhumritelaiya, Dist. Hazarlbagh, Bihar. 

(VII) Shri Jagdlsh Prakash Daruka, M/b. Daruka & Company, Kodarma. 
Bihar. ..... Convener. 

[No. 60(71)/EIEP/6B] 

K. C, SEKHARAN, Dy. Dir. (Export Promotion) 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 3 1 


fahft KHTK 

isPwwr, 1970 

m* Wf3 22.--a efP VT fTTHT (fT&4T<JT) fa-lff, 1969 %fa<UT 7 % 

4 %-Tft? ?r<;nr, wrt ^rPn^i to nft w vt<> mo 

a i i i fa-rto 25 m$, 1 967 r x t^ikt farnfafer WV |, mrfcj; : — 

TUT *?, *: — 

^Tfar 4 n ft*ur f-wfcr Onfarr vf>m% wm % Rtmt srarnr 2 
n* ( 5) tm (7) $ ?«tpt r< fwfq'ftrT TfT^rrf'TT 
f%qr STimiT, : — 

( 5 ) aft IJffo i)o JTSUft, 

oR* st^rnr f 1 fi\T*r srr° f%°, 

Tto mo 

f>?rr ff^rfr arm-, fa^R 1 

1 7 ) ! “-fr aftrffor TVITT TWT, 

TtfFT, H'fy ^vPq-sff, 

Ttrcm, fa^r< i mfw 1 

[ffo 60(7l) /^° *.Tt° fo 'ffo/ 6&J 
Vo *f,o sptvt, grtr-fii^aw 1 
(frfffa Rttfcr) 


Cardamom Control 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 


8.0. 23. — In pursuance of clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the 
'Cardamom Act, 190S (42 of 1965) read with rule 5 of the Cardamom Rules, 1966, 
the Central Government hereby notifies that Sarvashrl K. M. Abraham and A. C. 
George, Members of Parliament, harve been elected by the Lok Sabha as members 
of the Cardamom Board, with effect from the 19th November, 1970. 

[No. 29(88)Plant(B)/68-m.] 

N. N. MALHAN, Dy. Director. 


fa***!) 

fff 16 fwMt, 1970 

HT° WT° 23- — WFT'ft f^FTR, 1966 % iWT 5 % 3T*T ifeff pmt 
'OfWpnr, 1965 ( 1965 <FT 42) q?T tHTT 4 T'TimT (3) % W>f (ff) % WffTCJf if 
RtVTT fJdTfTTT ^ fv f[tT° ?fsil$tT fPTT t[° '4i4, 

4UTf wf, Htv ffVfr JTTT 19 1 970 «ft$ % FTGfl $ ^<T R frtfPd'ff 

[%° 29 ( 88 ) (^t)/ 68 -llll 

f[ffo t^fo I 




23 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1970 

CORRIGENDUM to Notification No, 9{102)/69-Te.x-I, dated the 6th February, 1970 

S.O. 24. — In paragraphs 9A (ii)(d) and 9 B(ii)(C) the following may be 
amended to read as under: — 

For "One layer of hessian of 400 grms/l.B metre” 

Read "One layer of hessian of 440 grms/1.8 metre”. 

[No. 9(102)/70-Tex.I.l 
DAULAT RAM, Under Secy. 

31 1970 

TTftl^RT Ro 9(l02)/69-lw 1 forfar 6 1970 TT I 

tjfio wto 24.— far 9 *f (ii) («f) n*rr 9 ^r(ii) (»r) RPtHfalgni Yt w'vfifarar 

"400 UTR/ 1.8 ifttTT ^FPT ^ tpi 'TOT” % PTPT 9T "440 HUl/ 1. 8 iftET 
TOT" W I 

[Ro 9( 1 02)/ 70 5-5FFT— lj 
ttm TUT, 1 


(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21 st April 1970 

SO. 25.— M/s. Chand Parkash & Co. 2170-Tllak Bazar, Delhi were granted: 
permit No. P/E/0172801 dated 25th October 1969 valued Rs. 20,000 for Import 
of Fresh Fruits (Grapes) from Afghanistan under the Indo-Afghan Trade 
Arrangement 1969-70. They have applied for the duplicate copy of Exchange 
Control copy of the said permit on the ground that the original copy has been 
lost/misplaced after having been registered with Hussainiwala, Ferozepur Custom 
House and utilised fully. 

In support of their declaration, the party has filed an affidavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost/ 
misplaced. 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No- P/E/ 0172801 dated 
25th October, 1968 has been lost/misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
Exchange Control copy of the same may be issued to the applicant. 

The Original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby cancell- 

ed i 

[No. F, 21 (a)IV/PER/C-2/ (50)/ A.J.70/ AFTR/CLA.J 
(RSTHf fiWW, WWKT-fw'R VT 

(wsrfta wns*m w*) 

frf feFvfr, 21 WSUT, 1970 

rr^o wro 2 5. — IpHt ^ M'tilDI tjos fo, 2170 *n^K, f^sfT ^ 'TTOT- 

t PCTRT HiH V t n 1 96 9-7 0 % SFvPfa W'hdird’WH % GMI (^FJTt) % ^'910 

% 20,000 YT H Ro Tt/f/ 0172801 25-10-69 UYPT for 




33 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 


T9 1 FT I ■d'W irPTC Ft >JST— Pi ■H fTTTOT Ft SFTfrft % fTT[ 

£T% Tfl TTTTT for | fF gTFtTFTT, fbOoi'^T TTTT-17IFF' FFrfTT T '79ft^?r 

FTF % TH TT FftT HT T$ t I TFT TTFT <T{ TT 9f t£‘ tTt TTFT ^TT FTTH FT fspTl 
TUT t I 


TRf T TF! ? TTTT T TTS? ffFT WI-FT FF FTFf gF FTT fFTT f % JTJ qrfTj 

Ft zprr-fafaw fT-RE sfa *?'t nt £ i *ift ttft te tjf st Tf 1 1 

^ W TFT ?r T^R g fF '-RpHii To 'ft/ 0 I 72 8 0 1, fTTTF 2 5-1 0-6 9 Ft IJ3T- 
fafaiFT ifiTTH aftf *at T^ | I TcT T9TT FT VW Ft fit TR f^W tTT g fF ^T qrfTS 
Ft TFrfrfTTT farm arfr fi TTfafr ttfff Ft frT Ft ftf i 

^cfWU T <Pld Ft J|FT JJST-frfha H fTFFF TFT TTtjt aft Tf Ft FTfit | | 

[TWO 2 1 ( it ) 4/tT o £oTTTo/tT- 2/( 5o)/U[o^ 70/q^Foj) ojtro/ti-oit^o^oJ 

S.O. 26. — M/s. Chand Parkash & Co., 2170-Tilak Bazar, Delhi were granted 
permit No. P/E/0172207 dated 7th October, 1869 valued Rs. 30,000 for import of 
Fresh Fruits (Grapes) from Afganistan under the Indo-Afghan Trade Arrange- 
ment 1969-70, They have applied for the duplicate cop yof Exchange Control 
copy of the said permit on the ground that the original copy has been lost/ 
misplaced after having been registered with Hussainiwala, Ferozcpur Custom 
House and utilised fully. 

In support of their declaration, the party has filed an affidavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost/ 
misplaced. 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No. 0172207 dated 7th 
October, 1969 has been lost/ misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of Exchange 
Control copy of the same may he issued to the applicant. 

The original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby can- 
celled. 

[No. 21(a)IV/PER/C-2(24)/A.J.70/AFTR/CLA.] 

IJW 0 ilfo 2S- — TT'sft ■q r <5 aFPJT T>T F o 2170 fcMF ■NMlT fqceff FT TTTcT 
SHRIFT WTR WTF9T 1969-70 % SFifFT TFFlfTFTFT F rpF TFT (iFm) ^ TFTFT 
% fFF, 30,000 UTT FT T/ffiF To Tt/f/ 0172207 farTF 7-10-69 SSFT fFTT 
«)T I T^'fT TFT T-.fT? T3T-fafFTT fra'aF si fa TTg.ftrf'T F ftfii THTT fFTf 

^t% fro, TTffa t? Tran; fw | fF gTrft am fFFtFjT sitt-shf FHfar t a'^tsH 

FTT % AT FT 71 fT Tit T^ | I TcT FIFT 9T VS fif | I TTTf TOTH TT frqT 
TTT | I 

TTTf F TT % T*m T fiVfl' 3 ITT MSTT TTSTtfTT FTP-Tcl TTFf |0, FTT 
fwi I JTT nfTF Tf fiaT-frfTTT afT 1ST fill I OFT T9 FT TT m i\ f| I I 

F 4T FIT % TJR g' fr 'TTffiT To 0172207 fofifT 7-10-69 Ft TfiT-MfiTT 

'tFtit afT i3t nl 1 1 w mir ar vs ft Tf | f^rr ^tt g fr w arfr^: tst- 
frfTTT fTa^w afT ft TfifrfT TTaar Tt srrtt Ft ftf i 

q;T3;3PT TtfTF Ft TH T31 fFfTTT FTT t TTeH afd Tg’ FTcff | I 

[TWO 21 (o) 4/4tof -’TTTo/Tt 0 — 2 / ( 24)/Fo To 70 / 

ITa OTo ito TTro^Tfr 0 



34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


S.O .27. — M/s. Chand Parkash & Co., 2170-Tilak Bazar, Delhi were granted 
permit No. P/E/0172263 dated 9th October, 1969 valued Rs, 20,000 for Import 
of Fresh Fruits (Grapes) from Afghanistan under the Indo-Afghan Trade 
Arrangement 1969-70. They have applied for duplicate copy of Exchange Con- 
trol Copy of the said permit on the ground that the original cony has been lost/ 
misplaced after having been registered with Ilussainiwala, Ferozepur Customs 
House and utilised fully. 

In support of their declaration, the party has filled an affidavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost/ 
misplaced. 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control Copy of permit No. P/E/0172263 dated 
9th October, 1969 has been lost/misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
exchange Control copy of the same may be issued to the applicant. 

The original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby cancelled, 
cancelled. 

[No. F, 21(a)IV/PER/C-2/ (25) /A.J.70/AFTR/CLA-] 

sqTo 2 7- — HT SW apo 2170 3T3TTC T)TTcT- 

SHfiffET WRITT SJREPqr 1969-70 % TCDM I IhUTM H cTRIT TRf ( smt ) % SI RRT 

% fa"' 20,000 TTTJ RcT «PT TlfFT fl'o 4 Y/f /0 1 72263 foTFF 9-10-69 'JTR fTTT 
TPTT «H I 3TcT TTfar *YY flai-MfiTET ffTH'^WT 9% SFjfafT % fHE, fanr 

| YTT% ftro; ini wrsnr fen % f% p4Y htht Jj q'sfYtR 

qrrJr % qr? a fa $Y nf 1 1 Herr tt Tta £Y qf | sfk sum grr Brfaff ttt tYm 
TWT I 


qfaY ff ?m ty % Tffzfrr Jr HTCfafocr w-tt h? tti% §e; net iw | % th 

Tcfrc ¥Y fiauM -n TT ffafatr sifa sY 1 1 hr rr qr -m Cr fit 1 1 

f p HR Jr g- fsp qrfjR Ro $\j f/o 172263 fofffa 9-10-69 tfV E3T- 

fan'em sfa *aY | - hr rr qr vs hY h$ t sYr fa^r £ht gi fa qrfaj 
qTr TDrr-fqfqRT faifa<n afa sEijfafH sifafap fa hrY fa rttj i 

q,'d3&irr HTfaz fa e<t HST-fafaffH ffafaH teh TfafaY afa fa nfat $ 1 

[*RHTo 2l(qo)4-4to/fo?HTo/?n‘o-2(2 5)/^o^o 70 / 

tiqio fao n i <,o/fao p/To ti oj 

New Delhi , the 16 th June 1970 

S.O. 28. — M/a. Friend United Company 11-12-13/A, Bhagltath Palace 
Chandnl Chowk, Delhi were granted and Established Imports Licence No. P/E/ 
0171062 dated 23rd July, 1969 for Rs. 3232 for Import of Books & Periodicals 
as per current Red Book for A.M, 70 L. Period. They have applied for the 
duplicate customs purpose copy of the said licence on the grounds that the 
original has been lost or misplaced. II is, further stated by the Ann that the 
original Customs Purpose Copy of the licence was not registered with any Customs 
House and is unutilised for full amount of Rs, 3232. 

In support of this declaration, the applicant has filed an affidavit duly attested 
stating that the original Customs Purpose Copy of the licence has been lost or 
misplaced. 

I am satisfied that the original Customs Purpose Copy of the suid licence has 
been lost and direct that a Duplicate Customs Purnose Copy for the amount of 
Rs. 3232 should be Issued to the applicant. The original Customs Purpose Copy 
of the licence is cancelled. 

[No. F. Book/20/ A.M.70/QL/CLA.] 

SARDUL SINGH, Dy. Chief Controller, 
for Jt, Chief Controller. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 35 


'if fcrV, 1 6 TT, 19 70 

W 1 28. — TFTf ST? TTIrTT TW, 1 1-12-13/^, WTCT T TIT, TUTTf 

tt tw-rtt 70 trw snfsr % far twtt dT % ttw twit? 

1 y \J 

' sfft ifTTTTf % TTW % fro, 3 2 32 WT TT TRUftT SITWT TRW WTT <!>/$/ 
0171062 fwtT 23-7-69 TWfWTm «IT I HTT TRW T* Wfafa *frflT- 

’Wf ttc weft $ fw, fen t ^t% fw trf ?rraTT s wt frTr $ fr w sUr 

Tg> »t| | tt w wf tt m 1 1 w srt writ w | fo w wfrfr tffar- 

’wr wf si fa fafa ^ht— T raiw r faft fan w «it sfk ^ wwfr 

3232 TTT TT Ttf TTTfa faqT TTT qr I 

'T TfaTT % W^T Jr T| Tdfa §tt T 7 WT % fafTTj; WfafakT faF WTT-W TOT 
'fWT | fa TRW fa IJH fa*TT-WF TIT Wtft 5|fa fa Tf $ TT FW TFfT TT fa T$ | I 

Siw W Jr Tg^T g fa WT TRW fa W faRT-WF TIT fafa Ufa fa tfa | 
-far fafar £ rrr g fa 3232 wt fa a R-Tnfa % fro; riwt fa w Rfarfa faRT-sijTT 
w faifa fad Trfa fa Trfa TrfgR; 1 twit fa ft sYrt-wf tit Rfafr fad ^ fa 
WTRfY t I 

[ fad R / 2 0 5 w o 7 0 /T ^ 0 w a /fa j W 0 tr o ] 

JR^T trg, 

TR-R^r idWT TTTTd-fdTfd 

•o 

fat Wdd RTT fafaFF Wild fcfad I 


''(Office of the .Tt, Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing- Area) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th August 1970 

S.O. 29, — M/s. Dldar Singh Charan Singh, Gandhi Cloth Market, Chandni 
fChowk, Delhi were granted permit No. P/El/0178'074 dated 12th December, 1969 
valued Rs. 1,26,000 for imports of Dry Fruits from Afghanistan under Indo- 
Afghan Trade Arrangement 1969-70. They have applied for the duplicate copy 
of Exchange Control Copy of the said permit on the ground that the original 
copy has been lost/misplaced after having been registered with Bombay Custom 
House and utilised fully. 

In support of their declaration, the party filed an Affidavit duly attested by 
Notary stating that Exchange Control cop-y of the said permit has been lost/ 
.misplaced. 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No. P/EI/0179074 dated 
12th December, 1969 has been lost /misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
.Exchange Control Copy of the same may be issued to the applicant, 

The original Exchange Control purpose copy of the permit is herewith 

cancelled. 

fNo. 21(a)IV/PER/D-I(3)/A.J,70/ AFTR/CLA.] 
R. L. VARMA, Dy. Chief Controller. 

for Jt. Chief Controller. 



36 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


TWJ WT ft**!? ST.nr ff-fflT T T'i WUPStf 

(qrEsfVsr ) 

5T.T3T 

TffTO-ff, 6 TTOrT, 1 J 70 

TO° 29- — OT ^R ffet JiTftJt TOW Rlfee Tfelf T*fe ferfr TF 
^VlfTOT OTTTT OTTP1T 19 69-70 % SRdTO TOTfaTOTT ff gig Wf % STRUT % 

fa 1 ?,' 1 , 2 6,000 tot tt 7 /far rot ^Hjwi/ 0179074 ferfe 12 — 12 — 

69 7TIT fan TOT 7T I TTU7 T7T iRfHd 7 ?f *ffifaf7 TOT fqfajRT fTOTO 

51 fa % fro, wiw fen f st% far, to ot«r fen | fe to nfe Twf tffn-sRr; tit ?tt 

$■ 7TT T^ffer TOFT TOT yJRPTT TTOfT TOTT % TOW tsff 7f | I TOT TOT7 TT Tig 

*r| 1 1 

sroff totot % ttoft 7 to tti% §7 trot % Trfer srt fafsrr nroffar to 
urn 1 or 1 tot fen | fe to irfer tt TTST-faffer fanur afar sfr t£ f w ?nr. 
tt tu 4t 1 1 

Ffwncr^^difeq-TfrR^WTaf/^nl/o 179074 fearfe 12 - 12 - 69 ^ 
gn-fafaro sfa 7 $ 1 1 tot rut it m $\ 1 1 <afe frfear %arr g fe tot qrfnr 

qf? mfafa Rsrfefetw fnfaw afe ttto to gfef qff tt; i 

75 jjar-fafenr few 7 afe totottt fa naff 1 1 

[rot a 2 1 ( 7 ) 4 /fa can 0 /if □ - 1 ( 3 ) /tig 7 o/qro/ro /fa 0 /sir 0 /fa ot^r ot» o / J 

WR--’ q7° TO?, 

to-ttst feiTO otittTto?t, 

?fa RTO7 TO7 felTO, STm-fafaT, I 

(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1970 

S.O. 30. — M/s. I.C.I. (India) Private Limited, Bombay, were granted 
licence No. P/D/21727/99 dated 5th December, 1969 under Rupee Area lor the 
import of raw materials valued Rs. 2,07,552. They have requested lor the issue 
of duplicate Customs copy of the said licence, on the ground that the original 
copy of the licence base been misplaced without utilising it. The licence has 
not been registered with any Customs, 

2, In support of their contention, the applicant have filed an affidavit. The 
undersigned is satisfied that the original custom copy of the licence referred to 
have i.e. P/D/2172799 dated 5th December, 1969. has been lost and directs that 
duplicate copy of the licence in question should be issued to them. The original 

copy is cancelled. 

3. The duplicate copy of the licence Is being issued separately. 

LNo. Ch/I-32(2) / A.M.70/R.M 3/2205.]! 
G. S, SHARMA, Dy. Chief Controller.. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 37 


(jjviu frrov, w.w.ff-fawfa hT 
wrier 

rff. Ik? ft, 9 ftmiT, 19 70 

tTfio wio 3o — ut Trio ato qrto (ifgzrr) srr° %o, qrq-f rw stt 
TTFITT T7°f ETH TT TPTRT TR f % fTTT[ 20 7 5 52 JIT % 1JST TT ITT TERR Ro <fto #To 
2 17 2 799 fcrtT 5-12-1969 TRl f%hT TTT qj I T ; f.:FJ TfeT TTfcER TT mOT-TlFF 

imfr trfrr Tt T-jfrfi Tifr tyr % (tr wrenr it wirte fan | fr Tart jjft srfrr 

fam tttIt %t ee wrtftte ft e£ | i ttwe f^tft ETRTTprr frupr % RsftfEr E$i 

WT RET RET I I 

2. TFT TIT % REEE IT Trt^Tl E TUT ETT EffoR pRET | I TqTfTTiTSfrrt 

| fT ETTT '-fTEffR Tt *£E TtUT 9pF RFEETf 5f% WEfeT Ro 'fto ^to 21 72 7 99, fEEFF 
5-12-1969 lit qf |Tr«rr fr?w ^rrr | fr tt Tt w^farr et^r # sFjfrfE Trft Tt TRt 
TrfftT | stuti Tt Tf Pfet ettit | i 

3. TTTW Tt WEfafE s.;frr wtr & t?t TT T??t I I 
.[tiwr Tfto liTo l- 32 ( 2 )/lTo rriTo 70 /WTTo pro 3/2205] 

Tto TTq-o sirf, 
tt-ree frunr, wTEFT-fEEffT i 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, hie 15t/i December 1970 

S.O. 31, — The Director, Revenue intelligence, Dtc. of Revenue Intelligence, 
Block ‘D’ IndrapiaRtha Bhavan, New Delhi, were granted licence No. G/AU/ 
T032787/XX/25/C/H/25 dated 18th July, 1967, from free resources for import 
of Agfa copyrapid paper etc. valued at Rs. 1082. They have requested for the 
issue of duplicate copy of (exchange control purposes copy) the licence on the 
ground that the original Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been lost 
by them. It has been further reported by the licensee that the licence was lost 
after the utilisation of Rs. Nil and the licence was registered with the Collector 
of Customs. Bombay. 

In support of their contention the applicant have filed an affidavit. The 
undersigned is satisfied that the original Exchange Control copy of the licence 
No, G/AU/1032787 dated 18th July, 1967 has been lost and directs that a dupli- 
cate Exchange control copy of the said licence should be issued to them. The 
original Exchange Control copy is cancelled. A duplicate copy of the licence 
is being issued separately. 

LNo. Cont / 108/ 67-68 /PLS/B/ 93.] 

( ree ffiTriT, etettt fEEfrr tt eee?te ) 

SETS! 

15 fTTHRT 1970 

RRo To 3 1 . — ^TE IT'-Ml'jfR, TritrjTtT WIT ERE UEETRE, 
- 3 TT 1 T 'IY ^ErTEFET TFT, e| fEFTft TT RETT Ttrff Y WERE 'fiTf'llPt E YlT ^ WTEFT % fHR 
1082 EE^ TT WTETTT TTTRR REET tT° tfjo/ 1032 787 Eto/iFftTo ^0/25^0 Tj^oj 
2 5 , feET F 18 - 7-1967 REFT tWT RET ET I TflFt ERE TTT^TT w-jloift srfrr (^TT 



38 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part li- 


ft PlHO fEEEE nfd ) % ftil* sfH ETETT TT E’jtR Rr> H I ^ fti *JE us 1 fEftq-H jfft, 

EE% SRI Et Ef | I TIE eUTT ETE EE EETET EET | % ETf^E iftET EcE RHT^?TT ERf E 
HTE T^ft^E fw EET ET E^T fEEI ETEtE ftl[ ?fr *TT EET ET I 

ETt EE % HE^H E EltaE % EE ETE IE H-H! PhEl i| I E’ET^ETTWTl' ^EE HTT3 

^ fE <TTC[EE EEET jffo/tr^o/ 1032787, fTETE 18-7-67 El *JE ^5T ftfdEH fHEEE 
SffE lift e£ ^ ill < fttvi %cTT ft 1% ETETE ET Ti'td EERE Et E'jfEft -HR I ftfHE-H fHHEET 
sr1% Elff Et Effit ETf^ I JT5T ftfEEE pERE T% T? Tt ETlft f I ET^EE Et EhfEft 
EpT EEE it Epfr Tt ET Tift jf I 

[HWT 10 8/6 7-6 8-^0 iTyTo trE^srto] 

S-O. 32. — The Managing Director, Punjab Dairy Development Corpn. Ltd. . 
Kothl No. 1560, Sector 18-D Chandigarh (Punjab) was granted import licence. 
No. G/A/1039785 dated 18th September, 1989 from G.C.A. for import of spare 
jrarts for Butter Chum Type U.G.H.40 as per list attached to the licence valued, 
at Ra. 40,630 only. He has now requested for issue of duplicate copy of the 
licence (both customs & exchange purposes copies) on the ground that the 
original licence (both copies with list of goods) has been lost/misulaced without 
having been registered with any customs authority and utilised at all. 

In support of this contention the applicant has filed an affidavit. The under- 
signed Is satisfied that both copies of the original licence No. G/A/1039785 dated' 
18th September, 1969 have been lost and directs that duplicate licence of the- 
said licence should be issued both for Customs and Exchange Control Purposes.. 

The Original licence in duplicate has been cancelled. Duplicate licences for 
both copies are being issued separately, 

[No. 2/SG/191/67-08/PLS/B.]* 
S. K. USMANI, Dy. Chief Controller^ 
for Chief Controller. 

l[Eo Wto ^ 3 2 — ft JptfEE TER $ft $3 eTET ETTftEH fafE 2 ^ 

n?r£t ehet 1560, tfrrr 1 7-®t, (ter) et hrfh we E nteEh % er her 

^ft % ETETT^o sfto^TEo 40 fTEE % EEE itE % ETEE JE? % ETETE % fEC[ 40,306/- 
ETt ETEET ETETE ET^TlETUaffo/lJo/ 1039785, faETE 1 8- 9- 1 9 6 9 RtfE fEET EET El I 
ETfPt EE ETE EIT^E =61 EEfaft TfH (atHf tftET STcE EET EST ftfEEH ftEEE qfdEt ) 
^f^^ETERTTE^dEfTRT^fEEEET^EEt (^EfTfEETETE Et^ft^ ETE) 
f«l E I PttTl tflhl ?JeE TTfy't'i'tl % TIE t^ftfE E <|E EET ETEtE PfE Eft EET ^/ TEE TETE 

tt ET Piet eet $ i 

Wt EE % EE^E if ERSE t EE ETE TE EET fEET ^ I Etft^TETWTt lE^t EER 
^fTRJEEl^’E EEETEto/Eo/1039785 fEHTE 1 8-9-1 969 E?t ERf SflEEt Et E^ ? 

lET t frr ETE ET ^E E^fEfr EI^E TftTESJR BET EfiT frtETE fETEE 
HfEEI ETft EEft 'E%r | 

HE ET^EE at TfEET t fEET ETET ? I 51ET T^iEf % E^iEft ET^E EEE' 
ETTt (Eli ET T? | I 

[naET 2 i EEo / t 5ft'o 19l / 6 7-6 8 J Tlo T[Eo f’Eo^o] 

%o TETTEt, 
ET-TjEE fEEETi, ETER _ fEEfE, 
^5E fEEETij ETETE-fEE?E h 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 39 

(Office of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports) 

(Central Licensing Area) 

CANCELLATION ORDER 
New Delhi, the 15 th October , 1970 

S.O. 33.— M/s. Raj Kumar Foundary and Engineering Works (Regd.), G. 
T. Road, Batala were granted licence No. P/S/l 611118/C-OR-27-D-25-26 dated 
7th May, 1908 lor Rs. 8516/- for import of (1) Roller Bearings other than those 
specified in appendix. 14(5) of AM.09 Red Book Voll (2) Tapar Roller Bearings 
other than those specified in appendix. 14(6) of AM. 69 Red Book Vol.I. They 
have applied for duplicate copy of Customs Purpose copy of the licence on the 
ground that the original Custom Purpose copy has been lostl/misplaced. It is 
further stated by the party that the original Custom Purpose Copy of the licence 
was not registered with any Customs authority and was not utilised at all. 

In support of this contention, the applicant has filed an affidavit. 

I am satisfied that the original Custom Purpose copy of licence No. P/S/ 
1611U8/C-OR-27-D-25-26 dated 7th May, 1968 has been lost/misplaced and 
direct that the duplicate licence (Custom Purpose copy) may be issued to the 
applicant. The original Custom Purpose copy of licence in question is hereby 
cancelled, 

[No. NP/286/AM.68/AUPB/CLA.1 
A. L. BHALLA, Dy Chief Controller. 

for Jt. Chief Controller. 

( IT Tift TAT fRRRR?, RTRTd fRTnT Rtf TTRtRT ) 

WI«T 

15 STR^TP, 1970 

T{Ro tfto 33. — PPt «ft PTR RpiTP HA-hjf RTR (pfR° ) Rto 

Tfr, TSTRT ( l) RTR-RTR, tr 3jRT % RTPJR 1 % 'iRfoi'd 14(5) R fdfRf'RSR R 
nfdPOM R'T PtRP tdfpT ( 2 ) stfR RPR, 69 % RRfR 1 % dfpfw 14(6) 
fafipRfR % RfdfPRd 5FR ?TP TtRP RRfPR ^ RTR1R % fRTJ 8516 rt 
RETIR RTSRfi R° 'fto/ijRo/i 6 1 1 1 1 8/tff°/Rt° RTPo-2 7-ft°-2 5-2 6, fcdtR 
7-5-68 TdTR faRT RRT RT I RRR dlE/FH R?t *FjfRft tftRT 

RPRRlt SlRr a id RTpR RT RFTPtR f%RT ^R% (d '/ RTT RIRK Rmi 
^ f% *JR RfRT RJ "IT 'MM ti+A'-yi dfd ITT Rf ^ I RRd PRTR TP PRT it fit* tf I *h4 5TPT W*t 
RjT RdIMi RRT ^ fr> RRR RTTTRR Tt *JR RfRT Tlfi RERRjt Slid PhtH dt ifTRI RJcRd 
H iftlTl Pi % TTR Hdlsfd d^t RTplf Tf Rt I RR RT fRJR RTRfR Ri*t f%RT RRT RT I 

RTR RRf % RRRR # t qT W <ld RRT f%RT t I W *nPT % 

R^T g f®5 RT^RR R° 'fty'tTRc/ 161111 8, *fT° RTTo -2 7-^0-2 5-2 6 fRdfRT 
7-5-68 R?t RtRT-RTRT R?pf PTRFtff Rfd dt Rf | I RRd PRTR TP P^ it Rf 
§ Rtp fd^R idT | fo SRjfRfT RT^R (RfRT R?T Tl# RPR'-Rf 5tfd) RTRRRT Rfi Rid Tt 
RF* I RT^d dlftt'R R?t RR RfRT RFRT RT# RPiFEft 5lfd T.% RdRSTPT Tt Rldt $ I 

[RRRTlTRo 5fto/286/tf° ir^o 68 /R^o Rt°/Rto T£R° >T°] 

I^o CTRo RFRT, 

TT-^dT fdRRRi' RTRFT-fdRfd, 
^TrT R^RR ^RR fdRRRT, RTRTd-fdRtd I 



rfo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 18th December 1970 

S.O, 34, — In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 3 of the Aircraft Rules, 1937, 
and In supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Transport and Communications (Departments of Communications and 
^ivil Aviation) No. GSR 840 dated the 9th May, 1983, the Central Government 
hereby authorises the following persons also to grant or renew Student Pilot’s 
Licence referred to in clause (a) of rule 38 and In Section ‘B’ of Schedule II to 
the said Rules with effect from 1st January, 1971, namely. — 

1. The Honorary Secretary of Flying Clubs/Gliding Clubs/Gliding Wings. 

2. The Principal, Government Flymg Training School, Bangalore. 

3. The Administrator, Hind Flying Club Ltd., Lucknow. 

4. The Vice-President, Rajasthan Flying Club/Gliding Wing, Jaipur. 

5. The Manager, Amritsar Aviation Club, Amritsar. 

6. The Administrative Officer, West Bengal Government Flying Training 

Institute, Behala, Calcutta. 

7. The Executive Officer, Hissar Aviation Club/Gliding Wing, Hlssar. 

8. The Secretary, Birla Gliding Club, Pilani. 

9. The Secretary, Gliding & Soaring Club, Kanpur. 

10. The Senior Gliding Instructor/Instructor-ln-Charge, Government Gliding 
Centre, Poona. 


[No. F. 10-A/11-70/AR/ 1937 (3) / 1970.] 
S. N. KAUL, Dy, Secy. 


qtfaR irmr ftmiR* htht 

16 fVPN? 1970 

Tfo iHo 34 . — TmiR fTtW, 1 937 % f*TtpT 3 V TI fV-W ( 2) T TTFVH 3 

mrer t wyr Tfc^ mV mmiv mrm mV fmfRH fmmRR 

mfagRRrmo rt° tio fn° 840, ritVs 9 mf, i963 T> mfVVm’rV V-jfim 
1 Tfi-T-ft, 1971 R 'TIT Wl V fRTR 38 kl (t) R mV STR- 
g'Tl II % t TPIHF TVR m TV Y far 

fWVfcrT sirfVrtfir Tf tfr srrfm$m t v V mm?R — 

1 . f?tt trr/tr rffytr TPt/THitfVr fapr % sr-Wf fVr i 

2. WRTTpf, fVpT 'FTTV ffVl I 

3. TSTITT, fjRT THITT PiF Ws"!) tPSTSi I 

4 . HTPHOT, vptTsq-rH 'RR'/jPTWt fam, 3Ry< | 

5. RTRT, mTPH rrjVwR ttJTTTT | 

6. ttttIht mfmFTfr, ifaVt trth tfrtc thur ffam sh.Vztf, 
F'HFTTT I 

7 . TTTTrHT mFtFFTff, spTm/’HlFfS 1 ! fV), fiGflV I 

8. RfHT, fs"5WT fVnV I 

9 . TfVr, lanrfVT criT mtmVm TTR, FRT['< | 

i o , T'-tilFtr m'TVrr/mVHT srmifr, rW ivnifsm V??, gpt i 

[jo TPo 10-h/l 1-70/10 mRo/l937(3)/l970] 

hTR VET, 'J'T TTpRR I 



Sec, 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1 892 41 

DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 
(P. &T. Board) 

New Delhi, the 18 th December 1970 

S.O. 35. — In exercise ol the powers conferred by Section 30 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes the follow- 
ing rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, namely— 

1. (1) These Rules may bo called the Indian Post Office (Eleventh Amendment) 
Rules, 1970, 

(2) They shall come into force at once. 

2. In the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933, in sub-rule (2) of rule 92, for the 
■word “Parcel”, wherever it occurs, the words “postal article” shall be substituted. 

[No. F. 37/7/70-CN] 
A. D. PISHARODY, Dy. Dir. General (Mails). 

(tw-ttt vti) 

ffiffSecft, lSfcRTSR, 1970 

TU SRo 35: — 'TPcfpT TfftrfA'RT, 1898 ( 1898 W 6) <1 RRT 

3 0 IPIT^tT tnfwfrTT STTPI f ^sflT RTYR TT^PH ffiT?rfvrftSW fnRR ■An'Icfi 

:f, WIT — 


1. (l) R f'TTR RTvfiT YTTT-' ( RTTTfJRi RSITSTT ) fffiPR 1970 7H I 
( 2) ^ |7?cT TftT f ft I 

2. RRcfiR 7TTRY fRRR, 195 3 R fRRR 9 2, % TlffiRR ( 2 ) R "r|RR” FRT 
T ?RTR T7 RpR 4# vf) R| 'HTTf | “TTT PRT RfTFRTf'PT fatT 3fTRR | 

[RSRT 37/7/70-lfto 

Ro fa o iTTPrtff, 

R7 RfrfR? (tit) 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH FAMILY PLANNING, W.H. & U.D. 

(Deparlment of Health) 

New Delhi, the 16th November 1970 

S.O. 36. — Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Health No. 17-2/59-MI, dated the 1st April, 1 960^ the Central Gov- 
ernment has directed that the Medical qualification “M.D.” granted by the Uni- 
versity of Toronto Canada shall he recognised medical qualification for the pur- 
pose of the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 (102 of 1956); 

And Whereas Dr, Walter Gilary Anderson who possesses the said qualification 
is for the time being attached to the Masinl Sewa Mandal, Malwa Church Council, 
Ratlam. Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of teaching and charitable work; 

Now, Therefore, tn pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso to sub-section (1) 
-of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifies — 

(1) a further period -'l two years with effect from the 19th March, 1970 or 



42 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 

(ii) the period during which Dr, Walter Gilary Anderson is attached to the 
said Masini Sewa Mandal, Malwa Church Council, Ratlam, Madhya 
Pradesh whichever is shorter, as the period to which the medical 
practice by the aforesaid doctor shall be limited. 

[No. F. 19-16/70-MPT] 

M. C. MISRA, Dy. Secy 

FETRKE, 9PT, frTT.h , WTOR PR nRT faYTH RTTTRIE 

(*ETRE fEETR) 

r£ flFHi, 16 RE*RT 197 0 

hRo *fto 3 6 :-ER: RITA RTY1R HJcPJE *ETRiE EETHE fERfY 1 R$R 
1 9 6 0 Yt RftJF[ERT R° 17—2/S 9— 1[ ° RTf ° 5T7T Yi-flYE R * Yl t it Pi^'d fid I ^ fY 

ri^eYe ftifeRT qfrtr? RfEfEER, 1956 ( 1 95 o yt 102) % reYer) % fmo; RKt^t 
fESqfdYTEE YE1ET STET R^m ‘'t[E it” RTRY fEfYIRT R^RT ET'ERIEFE PdpRRT 
tr^Ti ^t*ft : 

rYr TE: RTo EUdV IEEE WT^ER YT RPY HR TY EYT EfCEl f I'-bASTH 
RRtit ^IET RSH, RTHET EftE^, 7RR1E, REE % RTR RtETEE rYe H'EY4 Yl4 
%■ RRtRRf % fppr RETET RRT t I 

RE: RE REE EfafEEE ^ ERI 1 4 ^t RR RTTT ( I ) % HE$Y % ROW (r) TT 
EIRE YE^t %RftR RTYR q.EdlfTT : 

(i) 1 9 ET^ 197 0 % Rt Rtf q?[ IJY *ftE EEfE Yt, REET 

(ii) RTo ETFdT fEwt ^RRRR *6Y RlfHt TtET E^ER, ETEET EE qfEEE, 
TRRtR, REE E1R % ERR 7?R YT REfa Yt,j 

vft Tft YR ^t, E? REftr ft ft ft Ed YRtft | fRR% fY ^eYyT 1TCT Yt MyR 
$feE iftfEE ?YeY I 

[Ro Yo 19—16/ 70— P[Ro 'fto £Yo] 
R|m RET fRR, RR RfRR l 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 

S.O. 37.— In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 19 of the Cinemato- 
graph (Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints Shrl 
Pratap Krishan, Joint Director, Farm and Home, Directorate General, All India 
Radio, New Delhi, to officiate as Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, 
Bombay with effect from the afternoon of 20th November, 1970, until further 
orders vice Shri K, Dixit retired from service. 


[No. F. 2/106/70-FC.l 
VIRENDRA D. VYAS, Deputy Secy. 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF TNDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 43 


*J*PTT tot RtotTT 

rff ftoto, 7 few 1970 

to 37 — to (#%?) fdWdto, 195 8% ftofR 1 0 STTT TTcf 
trftonto TIT SR>7 T'% %tod fTTR T lrdqj|TT «ft TnlT tor TcT ftoW, 
TTU to T »T^, TTTTTWWJ HTlfutor^, dt fecto %t 2 0ftoTTt, 1 970 %?TTTl^ Tf 

trtoi mtor dr, to %° fr° toftor, to tor ftou to to f, % pwrt tt tosto ftor 

to# ®rt5f$ % TTftotofr WtoTTto % I? T'TTrfTT'TT R f-fTTcT f%qf | I 

[qWT 2/ 1 06/7 0— TTTio to®] 

toto to «qro, Tr-qfto i 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS AND MINES AND METALS 

(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1970 

S.O. 38. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that It la 
necessary in the public interest 1 that for the transport of petroleum from Well 
No. 132 (KGL) to GSS V, in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
& Natural Gas Commission; 

And wh*rea s it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is- 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of 
the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to- 
acquire the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days 
from the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under 
the land to the Competent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, Construc- 
tion & Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically' 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

For Laying Pipeline from Well No- 132 (KHL) to GGS V 
State '• Gujarat Dist : Mchsana Taluka ; Kalol 


Village S. No. Block Na. Hectare Ate P. Ale 


VADAWSWAMI 

>1 

M 

11 

ff 

■* 

11 

A’ 


195 . 

194 

167 

169 

170 
iflo 

V. P, Cart Tmk 

121 
I35A 

V. P, Cart Track 

122 


0 3 OJ 

o 3 96 

017 
o 3 78 

a 4 27 

o 4 03 

o 1 28 

a n 04 

a 0 5 o 

c o 3 a 

a 0 25 


44 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II- 


T 

2 

3 

4 

5 

VADAW 5 WAMI 

134 . 

. . a 

12 

45 

,P 

135 ■ 

a 

15 

25 

11 

132 ... 

a 


57 


127 ■ 

a 

42 

ISLAND 

755 .... 

G 

2 

45 


654)4 ■ 

G 

6 

ia 


754)3 . 

G 

I 

77 


654)1 ■ 

O 

9 

52 


743 • 

O 

6 

07 


744 ■ 

. . G 

0 

25 


742 . 

0 

0 

25 


V. P. Cart Track . 

. . O 

0 

JO 


745 . 

. . c 

32 

43 


688 

c 

20 

26 

Ji 

682 , 

0 

5 

8i 


[ (No, 20 (3) /70-IOC/Lab.&Legis. ) .] 


qjIlSlWOTt TflWT i?VT4 «TRJ 4444* 

(«T?>frrznT ftprin) 

4$ fWV, 1 4 19 7 0 

TV 0 WIo 3 8- — 44: T-TFl TRTn: TV 4 b 44(71 57 fT TtT%4 4 44 5TVTV4T 

£ fT ipWRV 7R4 if f *i4 71541 132 (%o zfto ^o) VVTVo sfro nrffo 5 441 7 JtfWT 
% 4fv4f4 % f?rq 41444144 4T 44T TT-fflT 44 4T4T4 3T'T f 415 it 4T4f TlffTT | 

5rV7 471 : 4| SvfVcV |t<TT | fr <?VVV 4T?4 f TV f 4®l4 % 441 44 % Pst 'TTIIT'T 44(f4V 
TV 4 744 4 fa 4, STfal TV StfUTlV TT4V SVITVETT $ : 

m:, 5V4, fflfam 417441^4 (fa fa if 444T4 % SiftTTR TV 5i4fa) WfafaWfa 
19 62 ( 1 962 TV 5 0) TV 4TVT 3 TV TTYT-T ( 1 ) JUT 447V TfTVTV TV sfafa Tfa J4 
%rjff4 TVTTR 4 444 T44t4 TV S'fjTTR 5rfacV Y'fa TV 57141 57VT4 4[444T7:v 4VF44 f«RTV 

t I 

444 fT 444 4fa 4 f^44^ Ttf STfocV, 44 Tfa % 4V4 qv^TTV^T fapjfa % fTVCr 

WRT4 444 SVVffTTVrt, 44 44V 4Vff4T >f 4 4:414, f44W 4>T 414414 4414 

4T7J7V 7VT, Tffav-9 TV 54 wfa^RVV TV 4vfa3V 4 2 1 fa fa % 4147 TT 4%4V I 

vCp- 44V 5VRV4 T~4 TVHT fR sfafav faffafae.’J 47, fa T44 TfaV fT 44V 4f 4$ 
4V44V | fT 44fa JJ44tf sfarTT: ffl 4V frfa fafsf szRUVlfa <V 4VTT I 


^44 444V 132 (%o ^-o ttbto) %fao fa° TTVVo 5 4T 41^441^4 f4®EV 
74^4 ;■ 4T<VcV falTT : faVTPVV • ■ 414TV : Tfafa 


4iT 


4444 44 TV /fa IT 444V |43V 5,44 4i'° 5TR 


4144 74V4V 


195 
1 04 
167 


0 

0 

0 


3 

5 

10 


0 5 
89 
76 




Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 45 


2 

3 

1 

5 

1 69 

0 

3 

78 

1 70 

0 

4 

27 

1 69 

0 

1 

03 

Ti Ti “1 if 

0 

1 

28 

121 

✓ 

1 1 

04 

1 3. : P 

t) 

0 

5 0 

ar i T> q T<f JTT 

0 

0 

5 0 

122 

It 

l) 

2 5 

134 

{ 

1 2 

4 5 

1 33 

0 

1 5 

25 

132 

0 

1 7 

57 

1 27 

0 

8 

42 

755 

0 

2 

45 

654/4 

0 

6 

1 0 

754/3 

0 

1 

77 

054/1 

0 

9 

52 

74 3 

0 

6 

0 5 

744 

0 

0 

2 5 

7 12 

0 

0 

2 5 

=U Tf V £ 

0 

0 

5 0 

74 5 

0 

32 

4 3 

68 8 

0 

20 

26 

682 

0 

5 

81 


[jfwr 2 o( 3 )/ 70 -«nfo n't» tfVo/§r«n: 

S.o. 39. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government th°t it is 
necessary in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from well 
No. KHV (130) to GGS V, in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
& Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (i) of ihe 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User In land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the Pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission Construction 8c 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specificially 

whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 



46 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


Schedule 

For Laying Pipeline jrom Well No. KHV (130) to GGS V 


Scale : 

Gujarat 

Dist. : Mehsann Taluka : Kalol 



Village 

Surety No. 


Hectare 

Arc 

P, Arc 

CHHATRA1 

210 


a 

7 

91 


215 . 


0 

ia 

75 


212 


0 

5 

79 


444 • 

• • « 

. G 

3 

29 


443 • 


G 

17 

82 


446 

■ " . 

. C 

6 

34 


448 . 


c 

t) 

73 


449 • 


0 

I 

25 


450 


c 

IG 

55 


V. V. Catt Track 


0 

0 

6l 


451 . 


0 

7 

69 


452(2 . 


0 

8 

54 

ISAND 

682 . 

• 

0 

IC 

12 


[(No. 20 ( 3 ) / 70 -IOC/Lab.&Legi 3 . ) ] 

*Tfo39.-7,T: qff q' TTfT gfor | IT TTT%T R Tg srrTORT 

%oir^oqVo ( 130) irsfro^rYoTTFio y ^ f jtfaw % V 

TrjT^rrwT^crqTsrrfRTTi?? ffi-zftfT jr<r fsrsrf ; 

srfo qq: Tg; ttTt ffor | for t?#> tT fa^fo % snffonr $ four sr^- 

qfor f tFtt wfj? jf TjTifrrr Tr srfa^rc srfoRi stf-fitt f ; 

m;, m, f^TforqF Tr^qrrrTT (*jfa TTqfo t srfsmT mr edit) 

19 6 2 ( 1 9 6 2 TT 5(t) Tf qp.T 3 TjqRT ( 1 ) £ RT TTfT iqfaqq'f Tl TTTT Y'<T §rr 
%-^T RTYR! T TOR 1 TRqfo T1 VfatflT V\FFl qvq qrr ST'ETI STHTJ - TTXjr-T TlPT J forTT 

t I 

R3TT fT TFT qFq q fgTTq Ttf sqfoq, TF , ‘]fq F iff# 9T'?THn[-T fonasfo T fonj 

UTriH'T fTftTR TlfTTofr, — for cHR STfrfrHfr qq St’rq~fo, fqqW 1 tY< ^TRTH 5RTPT, 

wvjtt tte, srrteT-9 qr> ^fix^rr tfV Tif^Sr 2 1 for $ tffoT ft q%qr 1 

sffo #ar stott ftt qrqr g>: »qfoq faforforr: tk nfr f*tf for fit qg qg 
'rrgrr | for T^refF aqforwr: gr ft fofor foper aramift rtft i 

fsrtfrsqr^o^o^i'o (130) qfoYo qto rrq 0 v tf T r?qRT^rfo®fo Fforrr 

CTFR rjTRlF foRN : *FgqRT Fl^FI : FSlfor 

qfo qwr iwzT suit qf wk 



210 

0 

7 

91 


215 

0 

1 0 

75 


212 

0 

5 

79 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 47 


1 2 3 4 


444 

0 

3 

29 

443 

0 

1 7 

82 

446 

0 

6 

34 

44 S 

0 

6 

73 

449 

0 

1 

2 5 

450 

0 

10 

55 


0 

0 

61 

45 1 

0 

7 

69 

452/2 

0 

8 

54 

682 

0 

1 0 

12 


[fiSTT 20(3)/70 ?rl° jflTo/lT^o TTOf tr^o] 

S.O. 40. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum) S.O. No. 1785, dated 29th April 1970 under sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (60 
of 1962), the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right of 
'User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas, the comp'etent authority has, under sub-section (1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

t 

And, further, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And, further, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (4) of that 
section, the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said lands 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
Ml encumbrances. 


Schedule 

For Laying Pipeline from Well No. 44 ( KAEG to GI1S) 
Slate : Gujarat Dst : Gaidhinagar Taluka: Ga ldh'nagar 


Village Survey No. Hectare Are P. Are 


TITODA IC72 (Block No. 825) . 

c 

4 

68 

BIIOY AN RATHON 143 .... 

0 

6 

24 

144 • 

0 

II 

05 

145 • 

. a 

17 

04 

146 ..... 

. c 

13 

26 

147)2 ..... 

. 0 

3 

9 a 

I 47 )i 

0 

17 

47 

148)16 ..... 

a 

II 

25 

148)1 A .... 

0 

8 

10 


[No. 20(3)/67-IOC/Lab. & Legis.] 



48 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II — 

YTo STTo go 40, — 33: T/lfrm, 9T5q 3TI3 (gfft % Xqftftl ft wfgspK 93 
*F33) 3fftfftg3, 1902 ( 1962 371 50) ftl HITT 3 ftt 3331X1 ( l) ft Rftftl 3R3 TOR 
% q;ftf 333 331 Rim stftx jqi3 rT^r ara; 33133 (q;ifft 33 fftflFr) ftr serfage 930 
«ito go 1395 3Rftia 29-<i-70 5.1x1 ftxsrx 3 X 3 r ft 33 3fagR3r ft 33R iro^Kt Jr 
fftfglftw gfgfr ft gqftftr ft srfax.R ftl qr=qRug ftr fftwft ft qftRg ft fftri %fc\s 9 x 3 

93 51331 3T39 fttfftx 9R fc3T | I 

sftx 33: g’srg' arfaqRft ft 333 srfafrm ftl am e ftft xram ( 1 ) % ntftx 
gxxR ftr fjqft? ft fft | 1 

srYt 9RTTH', 33: ft?£t3 3X9R 3 393 fxqfta <R fftlR 9R4 ft 9X313 53 9lfgg;39T 
Jr ggR ft fafafW gfftftT % 3qftl9 31 srfaqnx 5rf33 3X3 33 fftffts33 fftgr t i 

33, 313: 333 3rfaf333 ftl STXT 6 3ft 3qSIRT ( 1 ) 3TX1 333 SlfftlftT 33 51913 
R.ftgn ftftfa 3X33X 0.3311X1 311X3 3X3ft | fft 53 3fagR3T J 3333 ft fftfftfftR 

333 g.fftxft ft 39919 31 3fa93X 9T59 3T5.3 fftElft ft aftm ft f3ft 3,3311X1 3^3 fft3T 
313T & I 

SlYft 3T9 33 aiXT 3ft 3991X1 (4) 31XT 9331 rfftqftl 31 9914 9Xft §0. ft?£l9 
gxTR fxivr ftft f, fft x 3 glftgft ft xqftfti 33 srfaxR ftftfx 3X99X ft fxfft3 gift ft 
JF3T3 ftxr ftftc aif,f337 33 9T919 ft, 33ft 993lftr ft 333 ¥9 ft, 53 91931 ft 9991119 ftft 
53 3TXfta lift flff3 ^ftll I 


| 3 fgft 31 44 (fto t )0 £ 0 ) ftftfto ftfo ORo IX 337 3153 3 T 59 faSTft | 3 j 
XT 33 : *y 3 XT 3 fftXT : 3 tftl 333 . 31393 : 9 M 199 T 


319 

33313 993T 

|rx 

31X 

frwix 

fcftlll 

1 072 (^rugftxi 

825) 0 

4 

68 

gftjii'.R? 

1 4 3 

0 

6 

24 


M4/l 

0 

1 1 

05 


145 

0 

17 

04 


146 

0 

13 

26 


147/2 

0 

3 

90 


147/1 

0 

17 

47 


14 8/lftft 

0 

1 1 

2 > 


14 8/ 1R 

0 

8 

10 

»- 

[ftWr 20(3)/6799^o 

ftfto 

ftfto/ftftx W ftfRT^ 



Sac. 3(ii)} Tt« GAZffITg OP INDIA: JANUARY 3 , 19T1/FAUSA 13. 1492 49 


S.O. 41.— Whereas by a notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum) S O. No. 1786, dated 28th April, 1970 under sub-aectlon (1) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
-of 1982), the Central Government declared its Intention to acquire the Right Of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas, the competent authority has. Under subjection (1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government: 

And, further, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedula 
appended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification la 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 


And, further, in exercise of the powers conferred b ysub-section (4) of that 
section, the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said landa 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
all encumbrances. 


SCfifcDULE 

For laying Pipeline from Well No. 97 (KfJ) to GGS1I 


State : Gujarat 

Distt, • Gandhinagar 

Taluks : 

Gandhinagar 


Village 

Sumy No. 

Hectare 

Are P. Are 



, 



sertha 

Village pancb«y«t carttiack 

. 0 

0 

6.1 


1081)1., 3,3* 4 Paiki 

. 0 

r 

80 


io8i|i a, 3, 4 Paiki 

I082]iA 

a O 

6 

53 


. 0 

to 

79 


ia8a)iB 

0 

10 

4 J 


1083)1 

• 0 

6 

IX 


1083I1 

0 

3 

77 


1083)3 

. 0 

0 

£ 


1084)1 

. 0 

7 


i«8j)i 

. 0 

4 

6 t 


1083)3 

. 0 

2 . 

34 


*083)3 

. 0 

6 

37 

State : Gujarat 

Distiict : Mehsans 

Taluka 

: Kalol 


SA1J 

916 .... 


6 

37 


914 

* 

7 

13 


(No. 20(3)/67-IOC/Lab. & Legit.] 

gCfo WT° 41 : — «PT: qiTT NTT*r (Wfo % 3WPT % flflwu VT 

%r#r) trfarfour, 1902 ( i 962 «pt 90) 4 ft sru 34ft -mm ( 1) % trcffr imw rwt 
% <f tfcnur urm tfh: wft ant tn$ (<?$tfrpnr 4ft 

VTo UT° #0 1786 firftw 29-4-70 STltt RDfftt % W ?T 

wj$*t % wrtm * irftpen: vt ^mpff vt firept % swtawfcfim 

wfter 4rr 4 prt nwnt wr ft 1 

tm: wot in f OT o ft »t mr n faftn w 4ft tmr e 4ft itiw ( 1 ) * wtfW 

vtjtrfti 4 <t| i 




50 the GAZETTE OP INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892' [Pjurr II— 


tfk itrpf, w: tofta EUtrrr ^ gw ftqti «rc fmpt mg % qqror m w fag sr or % 

TOW mjgqf % fqfHfa w tjfwrf if gWTpT W frfll’PTT (rfw «R^ W fmn | I 

m, wrr: gw nfaf^nr sfkT e aft tort ( 1 ) gmr aim infw, *pt aaPF 
g<r %gfPr ?twr c^jukt ftfw *q?ft fo m Jifagror % tow migift if fafqfcw 
gw gfinfr if gqq'tn vr st^ppr qrur to fmpi sifm % fm* nwm trikg fw 
toit $ i 

ffk, gg mrr gwRi ( 4 ) sin am arPmpfr w aak md* gg %gtto 
pm fa&r | fa gw *rfmff if gqa>r w srfTOn: fciffa grru if faf^r ?fa % topt 

srk m?rfeip ifg totPt if, g»ft qtfal % gw qq if, m dtror % smqrg qft arflw 
qftfafp gkT 1 


97 {%o m^o 3}>o) <jfto ggo 11 jpqrm gnwfaw 


'Tvq : gsraP 

fTOT : msfaTfT 

dTW : 



jrtg 

TO«a«r gwr 

twq 

mi; 

^ sm; 

«n ik 

qfa qropT fqr 

s 

0 

0 

65 


1081/1,2,3,4^ 

0 

7 

80 


1 08l/l,2,3,4, q^t 

0 

1 6 

53 


10«2/n$ 

. 0 . 

10 

79 


10^2/iqt 

; 0 ! 

10 

45 


10 83/1 

0 

6 

11 


1083/2 

0 

3 

77 


10 38/3 

0 

0 

30 


1084/1 

0 

7 

80 


1085/1 

0 

4 

OR 


1085/2 

b 

2 

34 


108$/3 

0 

6 

37 

pqq TOTig 

fw i^TOfl 

fl IHAii Wl<l 


0k 

916 

0 

6 

37 

^1* t 1" * ** ■" — : — *r- 

914 

0 

7 

, ,hi > t 1- -,., 

15 


[#« 2o(3)/67«n fo <fto ifto/?rrt 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 51 


8.0. 42. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum) S.O. No. 1787, dated 28th April, 1970 under sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 
(50 of 1962), the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right 
of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for 
the purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas, the competent authority has, under sub-section (1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, further, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification ia 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And, further, in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (4) of that 
section, the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said landa 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the .Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
all encumbrances. 


Schedule 

For laying pipeline front Well No. 26 ( KY ) to Well No. 57 ( KFC ) to GGS II 


oiuie i Gujarat Destrict : Gandiagar : Taluka : Gandinagar 


Village Survey No. 

Hcctavc 

Ale 

P. Are 

BHOYAN RADHOD 3)1 

0 

7 

80 


0 

I 

II 

Village Panehyat Cart Ttraek 

0 

0 

59 

248 , • • v ■ 

0 

9 

10 

247 

0 

0 

50 

Village panehyat cart track 

0 

2 

75 

25 1 •••»«« 

0 

2 

60 

233 t. . . 

0 

8 

7 1 

Vjllae panehyat cart track 

0 

0 

95 

243 . . .... 

0 

25 

91 

242 ...... 

0 

13 


Village panehyat cart track 

0 

0 

91 

794 

0 

7 

61 

195 

0 

13 

16 


[No. 20(3)/67-IOC/Lab, & Legis.] 


WTo WT° 4 2 : — RR: R "tfwT, 'TTT'T RRR (Rfa % wftITTT «PT 

WfaftFR, 1962 (1962 «FT 50) RTTT 3 RRSIRT (l) % WiftR ITTCR RUFTC % 
T jlP’Pin rrt trph sftr wpt (put upj rrtrr ('fjtfWr fwR ) srftr^fRr 
*To*rr°Eo 1787 Rifra 29-4-1970 ira Jr rr Jr ro 

Jr fafaiW Rfrui't % rrur % wftnure wr wrtftrwrJr % Ertfmhr % fart 

wfsiR tt wrrt wivrg Rifr r tfR rt 1 

rr: R tPi snttpprtr R rrr wfafaRR sm 6 rrkttt ( 1 }% wtftR rrptt 

fTTtR $ $ I 




52 THE GAZETTE OF IND^: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1B92 [Pajtt n— 


tfrr tot to: tofk trwn: * wnr faft# «rc fern: *tor * mnj to ar fS t ftd T 
itoTOT n^p fi ft ftpHff tt g tffftftf ft sntor yr totmr tor*r ytft tt ftfo m r fengi] 

tnr, to: sto to r fe m aft sm e tft iwro ( 1 ) sttt tott tomf Jrr tor* 
tolr 5 * toffa rmpn qmff m toro |srtor $ to nfa^w ft to«T *nj^4t 
Jr fa ft ft gg sro ft stot* vr trfton: wr snro ftoift % torn % fto 

flf^id felT aTTciT ^ I 

toe, tof sm qft ^rom ( 4) am tott vifwit *t tot* toft 5^ %tor 
* om ftftvr Sftr | ftf to* tjftor ft TOtoT «ft wftrvi < toft* « <*r Jr fft%r ifrft % toft 
to to mtoto to tot* Jr, mfr tott % *ro to Jr, to to*r % wr »lft to *rfrw 
qft fftfft* gt*r 1 


•gtrt rfer 2 g (ft mf) Jr fwt tferr 57 (ft ten ftr) m rtt *|t * *t *r to II tot 
wr *tto ftotft ifcg 


ymr : 

"J3POT ftor : 

toftorc 

nmm : 

%» 

toftro* 

tor 

totorftwrr 


tnr 

'frwnr 

tor* tot* 

3/1 

0 

7 

80 


3/2 _ ^ 

0 

1 

11 


tor untun rv 

0 

0 

59 


248 

0 , 

9 

10 


247 

0 

0 

50 


tortoTroto ygr 

0 

2 

75 


251. 

. 0 • 

2 

60 


235 

' 0 

8 

71 


tor totto to 

0 

0 

65 


243 

0 

28 

91 


242 

0 

13 

65 


*r* torro u# jer 

0 

0 

91 


1*4 

0 

7 

61 


195 

0 

13 

16 


[#o 2o(jl)/d7-w^o iffo to /ft** t*«i 

8.0. 43. — Whereas it appear* to the Central Government that it Is nr.cftmarr 
In the CtfbliC iriteirdSt that for the transport of petroleum from IDQXKII). to GGS 

At w«nwe. *7, lit Gujarat state, PifwJlitwM 4ftdtoht Be lfid by the cm and Natural 
G4* C6mmi»ion; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
rec ess aiy^to^acquire the Right of User in the lend described in the Schedule 







«*fc »<«J] TO K jOA2Smr OP INDIA- JANUARY I, lMi/pAVSA 12, 1*92 53 


.Wow, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section S of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Rjgbt of User In lend) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares Its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying o fthe pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road. Baroda-9; 


And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

For Laying Pipeline from Well No- loo (KIT) 10 GOS at Well No. 57 
State ) Gujarat DiBtt 5 Gandhinagar Taluka 3 Gandhinagar 


Villaga 


Suissy No. 


Haet«Jg Ai<j P,A«o 


bhoyan 


393 • 





0 

3 

34 

Gait Tiqcb 





a 

Q 

3 

3 

37 

66 

V. P. Land . 





a 

IQ 

89 

ago) 1 





Q 

3 

33 

289 





Q 

a 

30 

287/1 





G 

19 

76 

26 q 





a 

II 

47 

V.P. Gait Tiadi 





0 

a 

QI 

259 . 





Q 

IQ 

23 

334 





0 

4 

64 

253 . 





Q 

IQ 

25 

232 





0 

IQ 

23 

237 . 





a 

3 

38 

234 - 





0 

I 

33 

236 PaiM 





G 

13 

01 

241 





0 

19 

28 

V.P. Can Tcqeb 





0 

OQ 

35 

193 ■ 





0 

9 

94 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab, & Legis.] 

«FT° WT° 4 3 — ZTcT: Uf RtficT ^tclT | f% Jr ^ ¥T 

| far Tim Jr jj¥T iwt 100 (% srrf rnf ) ¥ f wt 

RtSTf 57 1 RT jft jfT Oq rRT q %■ q % fa ", qUItR-nicT *1'R 

wJRr am faW ;f Rifaq. i 

tflT ¥rr: aaifr | fa qtfr ¥tsrt an few Jr % som % fern;' orraqraa: 1 
Jr after 'oft Jr -,Ain>r qq srfaqrrT srfem spr^T ?rrqniiRT | ; 

srg, m, ^fatra qnqrrRa r ^quRr % ftro; tTfsarr qa qrfaa) 

1962 ( 1962 qq so) am 3 qft ^tstkt (i) am am iTrfacwfqn aaRr qfat i|<* 
Ryqqr a arrJr aqafa qn srfaqqT ¥ftra afar mar sTr^w traam arfaa faar 

& i 


aara fa aaa vjfa Jr ftema' aif 5 tfaa, m ¥ftr % tfra afe-qm^R fa®ft % fciR 

srfaq rsrt RTfaqtrd far a«tT Riffaa aa striRt, ftaftr *fft JfaRTa 

sprrt, qmjrr Tfa, arfap-g aft *tt RfaRfan q?r aftRa Jr 2 1 faff % Rftrr arr r%¥t i 




54 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY, 2, 197I/PMJ3A 12, 1892 [PA*f It 


tffr ^TT TTP^T WFTT wrPRr fafaiW : Ilf WT TT^IT fa fJTT *1^ Tf? 
nT^TT | fa mft fTTTf NTfaPiT: ifr JIT f^FTft fafa *TWPfY ^ JTTfiff I 

ioo (fc!TTf wrf) ?r$*rtnfan 57 <tt sft aft itr wrRTTJTfawfa ^5 


TTJir 

JJSTTRr 

fawr Jrttfhpn! dTRjfir 


nfa 

dWTOT 


«TR 

•ft wrr 

*farpT 

393 

0 

3 

54 


394 

0 

5 

37 


*pr fr 

0 

3 

66 


jft'ftfT"* 

0 

10 

89 


290/1 

0 

5 

25 


289 

0 

0 

50 


287/1 

0 

19 

76 


260 

0 

11 

47 


jft 'ft 

0 

0 

61 


259 

0 

10 

25 


254 

0 

4 

64 


255 

0 

10 

25 


232 

0 

10 

25 


237 

0 

3 

58 


234 

0 

1 

53 


236^ft 

0 

15 

01 


241 

0 

19 

28 


jft ft mi f T 

0 

00 

55 


195 

0 

9 

94 



20 ( 3 ) 

0 sft° ftoj rwx 4fer] 


S.O. 44. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
In the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 109(KIM) 
to GGS-IV, in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1902 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division* Makarpura Road. Baroda-9; 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: IANUARV 2, 1971/FAUSA 12,' 1892 55 


And every person making such an objection shall al?o state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

Laying Pipelini Will No. log ( KIM) to G.Q.S'-IV. 


State] Gujarat 

Talukal Kalol 




District 1 Mehsana 

"Village 

Sumy No. 




H«4t»lo 

A*a 

P. A14 

•**," ' 1 1 - " l_l 1 




— • 


i'H n 


KALOL 

98 . . . 


* 

• 

Q 

4 

19 


V.P- Gs»t Tigqli . 


• 

• 

Q 

Q 

79 


I5 8 - 

* 



Q 

3 

29 


V, P. C9»t Tigali 

* 

• 


Q 

I 

<13 


135 ■ 




Q 

IQ 

89 


i3<5 . 


• 


Q 

13 

26 


152 . 


• 


a 

I 

94 


131 . 


• 


Q 

13 

13 


148/1 • 




a 

13 

6a- 


148 


a 

a 

Q 

14 

8 q 


v.p. Cs«t Tiaek • 


• 

« 

Q 

OO 

38 


247 . 


• 

* 

a 

II 

a3 


246 



a 

0 

2 

a 3 


249 




Q 

<5 

83 


243)3 . 




Q 

6 

7<a 


250 




0 

28 

73 


232)13 




Q 

5 

27 


232)11 




a 

13 

91 


232)12 




a 

QQ 

6 q 


2St)i4Pailii . 




a 

I 

66 


231)13 




a 

13 

39 


231)29 




a 

II 

83 


232I28 




a 

21 

42 


251)26 




Q 

2 

13 


V, P, Gait Trgali 




Q 

I 

47 


251)34 




a 

4 

Q3 


V. P, Gait Tigsli 




Q 

I 

3Q 


251)37 




« 

14 

. 89 


231)38 




Q 

11 

26 


331)40 




Q 

3 

4a 

DHAMASANA 

899 . 




Q 

6 

21 


898 . 




a 

9 

04 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab. & Legis.] 

jljo Wfo 44 . — R: ^ NcTlct ^ tT 

^ WT3WF I ’pRTrT 7TR t — 

^rr nw 109 (% wrf n ) & sfr t^i — iy ctp % ftpj 

NmM<4l VI rT^T ’Hiuh ski R'cSTb | 

?rk w. ^ tmkr ^ ^ff ^ fron % smtod % k fa^ 

t[^7TTO ^ dRltT R srfsTFR 5?f%d TOI tlHWf £ I 

WtT, STd, ^t^rfWT 7KW (^T $ : 3Rt^T ^ sfw R 3#^) 

SlfsrfWT, 1962 ( 1 962 R 50) STKI 3^T ^WHT (l) ffTTI STTR T lfad t 
R y hIh TO ijtr %.TrW tTRilT ^ \d«*l R ^fu'CK STf%cT R tyudl 

APR R53TTT tftfttT fw | I 




Sf THE O^ZETTjS OF 1NDJA; MNWA*Y %i WJ/MUSA 1>, 1IW tPW H— 

ijftr 9 fipwqr vtf arftw, *tfk ftrarfr 

% fat wrcfta Trent jnfimrft, fa tot m^tro % 

*n*fa, ffafar irk fa«rm toft, wfjtt fk.ifhrt-s wrrw gfa^w eftfatw 
% 21 toff %<ftro Tt «%7TT i 

*rtr far m^hr tt't tm jn; arfa »ft «FkTT f% nr *£ 

*»? 'Tr^TT I fa ^TOtf RTftTO: T[t *TT ffaft ffat wtTOTlft atT'&T I 


5*rt fa<n (Srerrf fa) 109 fa-IV to tnfa *rnpr ffai^ ^ 


: 

’pnrr ctejvt 

fafa : 

P-jKfli : 

farrm 

far 

TROTfiw 

t’RTC 

*nr 

'ft 5TR 


98 

0 

4 

19 


^t 'ft *PT^^fa 

0 

0 

79 


158 

0 

3 

29 


aft 'ft 'Fit £f 

0 

1 

65 


135 

0 

10 

8 9 


136 

0 

13 

26 


152 

0 

1 

04 


151 

0 

13 

IS 


148/1 

0 

15 

60 


148 

0 

14 

80 


st'ft’rrrifv 

0 

00 

38 


247 

0 

11 

05- 


246 

0 

2 

33 


249 

0 

6 

83 


245/3 

0 

6 

76 


2 50 

0 

28 

73 


252/13 

0 

5 

27 


252/11 

0 

13 

91 


252/12 

0 

00 

60 


251 / 14 faff 

0 

1 

66 


252/12 

0 

00 

60 


251/15 

0 

13 

39 


251/29 

0 

11 

83 


251/28 

0 

21 

42 


251/26 

0 

2 

15 


<ft«ft «FTifap 

0 

1 

47 


Sic. 3(H)] 

THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: 

JANUARY 2 , 

1971/PAUSA 

12, 1892 57 - 


PtfatTJ ROTT 


WR 

<ft HR 


251/34 

0 

4 

03 



0 

1 

30 


251/37 

0 

14 

89 


251/38 

0 

11 

26 


251/40 

0 

5 

46 


890 

0 

6 

21 


898 

0 

9 

04 


[HWT 20( 3)/70-Wt® 


8.0. 45.— Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from 44 (KAE) to Mini 
GGS at Well No. 57, in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid Iby the Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it Is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1902 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road. Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

For Laying Pipeline From Well No. 44 (KAE) to Miniggsat Well No. 57 
Stale; Gujarat Dist ; Gandhinagar Tnluka; Gaudht/iPgar 


Vdlagq 

Survey No. 





H«ct[jro 

Aiq 

P. Ala 

titoda' 

iqSs . 





. 

Q 

12 

82 

BHOYAN 

Ml . 






0 

3 

78 

4 1 

142 






Q 

8 

06 

1 1 

144 Pq ik i 






Q 

1 

S 3 

31 

130 . 






0 

ao 

50 

3 J 

140 






0 

0 

9 a 

1 t 

133 






Q 

? 

32 

31 

i 37 )i 






Q 

4 

34 

3 ) 

123 






Q 

9 

95 

4 1 

124 






Q 

IQ 

99 

33 

125 . 






0 

QQ 

5Q 

33 

I2l 






Q 

17 

14 

4 1 

I2q 






0 

3 

29 

3 1 

V.P. Cmt Trqch 





Q 

00 

75 

33 

I0O 

. 





Q 

2 

l8 


10 1 






Q 

8 

72 

- 3 

100 . 






0 

8 

7 

31 

105 






0 






58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA J2. 1*92 H»a»t n 


Vilkaa 

Surv*y No. 


H«<!taiq 

Ah 

P. Ah 

11 

147 . 

* « 

Q 

I 

95 

II 

isa . 

* 

a 

id 

59 

1 1 

V.P, Gait Ti8«i . 

• * 

a 

ao 

< 5 l 

1 1 

171/1 

* p • 

0 

7 

Jd 

1 J 

171 • 

• t > 

0 

<M 

3 Q 

1 1 

170 

‘ ■ ■ 

a 

8 

8a 

41 

iaa . 


a 

8 

97 

1 1 

190 

» • • 

Q 

IQ 

aa 

tl 

196 

* 

a 

13 

42 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab. & Legla.l 

FT° «To fa 45 , — !^r: %rjfa STFR Ft ^ fata JTtTT $ fr fa-%f T 

TTtJ FTTT'PW $ Pf TTFT it 1 " TOT 44 

ifcofaofr yqt W 57 TT faft 5ft aft tTTT fa'lffaw * faFFT % ffa 
'TTTWTT far anr srniRw fa fata im fafa fat fafa i 

Wl <. fata fan ^ f% fat mfat ’Ft ffafa % fatam % ffaj 

‘.tTct^TRr® »r^fat n fara far 3 ’fata ft fanr fan FmT itnw $ ; 

fa -m, fatffan q ' lyw i vi ('far fata % nfwn: ft far) faffar, 

1962 ( 1962 FT 50) ^ OTTT 3*ft WTT (l) ITTT 5TTTT Fpfaf FT fata Ffa 
JTT fafar CTTFTT 3 faf fata FT wfaFR fan fat FT TFFTT tTT3ta qn?3TTT 

fafa fFTT | I 

faf Pf nun *jfa # ffars fa fata, nn fa f fa qTWTRn ffata 

% ffa faq TWT 5TTfHFT(t, fa ?taT qfadF fa 

fata, tafar fa: fa-nm srnnr, nr^u Tty, Frtar-9 Ftw nffann Ft 
nrfa *t 2 1 ftaft % fan: ft fan 1 

fa, far fata Frnnm fan ffaffa: nt F«ta Ffa 

| fF nfa n*rfa fafa: ^t FT ffaft ffa sitafat fain I 


jfafarr 44( %fa ) tt fan 57 tt ftafr fa fa* t^tt ?pf Tfafan 

ffafa 


TFta : 

q^ran ffarr ■ 

qtfam 

dTFFT • 

faffaTT 

far 

farnfarr 

^taT 

nrr 

Ft 5TR 

ffatrr 

1082 

0 

12 

82 

farm 

143 

0 

3 

78 


14 2 

0 

8 

66 


1 44 faft 

0 

1 

83 



Sic, 3(tt)] THB GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA , 12, 1892 <o 


»TTT 




*TR <ft UR 


136 

0 

00 

50 

140 

0 

6 

90 

138 

0 

7 

32 

137/1 

0 

6 

34 

123 

0 

9 

95 

124 

0 

10 

99 

125 

0 

00 

50 

121 

0 

17 

14 

120 

0 

3 

29 

'ft vrtfv 

0 

00 

75 

160 

0 

2 

18 

161 

0 

8 

72 

166 

0 

8 

75 

165 

0 

8 

66 

167 

0 

1 

95 

168 

0 

16 

59 

’ft'ft 

0 

00 

61 

1 71/ 1 

0 

7 

56 

172 

0 

00 

50 

170 

0 

8 

82 

188 

0 

8 

97 

190 

0 

10 

80 

196 

0 

13 

42 


[fto 20( 3 ) / 7 0— Ulfo sfto *fto/$| f5R 


S.O. 46. — Whereas by a notification ol the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum) S.O. No. 2567, dated 16th July 1970, under sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962), the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines; 

And whereas, the competent authority has, under sub-section (1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, further, whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the 
Section 0 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 




6b THE OAfcrrtE OF INDIA: JANfJARV 2 . 1971/PAU6A ll, 1*92 [P«T Jt_ 


And, further, in exercise of the power conferred by aub-aoctien (4) of that 
eection, the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said land*, 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Ga's Commission free from 
«U encumbrances. 

Schedule 

For Piptlitu from Sanand W‘ll No. 13 to Sanaand Wdl No. IS ■ 

State) Gujarat District : Mehsana Taluks: Kalol 


Vilisj* 

Surrey Na. 





Hectare 

Are 

P. A*o 

KHATRAJ 

343 • 





Q 

3 

72 


343 ■ 





Q 

3 

OQ 

JETHADAJ 

245)1 





Q 

I 

QQi 


245)2 





Q 

4 

3& 


247 ■ 





Q 

12 

QQi 


248 





Q 

12 

72^ 


252)1 





0 

17 

52 


252)2 





0 

2 

40 


v. p. Casttianh 





0 

I 

2a 


272 





Q 

18 

72 


273 • 





Q 

2 

7 <t 


270 





Q 

4 

8a 


277 , . 





Q 

9 

Q 7 


276)2 





9 

1 

2a 


278 





0 

3 

30 


281)2 . 





Q 

3 

38 


281)1 . 





0 

6 

QQ- 


V. P- Csntmli 





Q 

Q 

42 


323 . 





0 

10 

28 


322 





0 

Q 

72 


344 • 





0 

21 

24. 


343 . 





Q 

4 

4 3 


319 • 





0 

4 

38 


347 • 





Q 

G 

QQ‘ 


348 . 





0 

3 

12 


317 





Q 

9 

76 


352)2 . 





0 

3 

QQ 


333)2 . 





Q 

4 

87 


353ft ■ 





Q 

8 

52 


V.P, CmttMslj 





Q 

0 

72 


355 • 





Q 

IQ 

8 a 


372)1 . 





0 

s 

92 


372)2 





0 

3 

40 


373)4 • 





0 

7 

92 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab, & Legis,] 

tpToHToHo 46. — tlH: qT^THTT^T (tjfrr % HqHiH % SffeqrR 

TT 5t3h) srftjfHHH, 1962 ( 1962 50) HRT 3^ ^HOTTr ( l) % STakl 

htth hw?: % q^tfnqH hht *jth ctht hij q'HTWH fwin) 

qft «PT0HT0 HO 2567 dl<ly 16-7-70 3TTT TOT ^ HH 

%HHtH SR^ft t fafHfcR tjfHHf $ RTHtH % srfTOR qtt 'TT5H HTCHl 
qft fTO R“ £ Sp^SR % fHH Sjf%H «RH tR WTT H1HH *PT felT HI I 

Hk HH: HSrfH mftPRft 3 HW SlftlftHR q?t HRT 6 ^HqHR’T ( l) % HHR 

HT*frn: qit ftqti I i\ $ i 



Sic. 3(B)] THE GAZETTE QF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 $1 


nVt HFt, Hi: fcstVH *K4fR # I'll fcfti 7T fafR % <RNf^ 

nfk^H'TT Sr if farF?rrc«r tjfaif if grintH ^r Nfam Hr>T hr* $t 

frfSnHH T^ht ^ i 

nh, *rcr: nfaftHH ^tara Gift ^rmrr (1) im arfr Nfar ur 

srcW *R?t arm tp^irrr *jR<fr $ fotfr a faf^ r Sr aaqr 

N^ft # fafrfcsr ^ tjMf if gTTtftJT W NfaPR TR'T RT 2 H, fHWH SHTl^PT 
% fro* n^rt Mr $ i 

nk, wnt aa am «Pt aq-aRr ( 4 ) trt smr vrPEnrf irr sr#r irST $pj 
rar fakr ^fr | ft? ^rt ^fWf if ^wrn *or Nfam %^h *rtr: if f«r%r 
%hhpt kr NkaTfrfSnr % ninth if, rnff *ftm Sr^w hr if, w ninht %• 
wtft 'Ath vt faf^r $>tt 1 

nfri jtrf <iw 1 8 Sr far awr i 5 ?rv nrwriR firetf 


<|3H : JJ'SRTH 

farm : 

HjRTTHT 

nf'^I' i ’• 


HtH 

rriwrHT iw 


NR 

at nr 

HTCTI'N 

345 

0 

3 

72 


343 

0 

3 

00 

ttS’ttT'H 

24*/l 

0 

1 

00 


24S/2 

0 

4 

S« 


347 

0 

12 

00 


24fr 

0 

12 

72 


252/1 

0 

17 

52 


252/2 

0 

2 

40 



0 

1 

20 


272 

0 

18 

72 


273 

0 

2 

70 


270 

0 

4 

80 


211 

0 

9 

07 


276/2 

0 

1 

20 


278 

0 

5 

30 


281/2 

0 

3 

90 


281/1 

0 

0 

00 


nri$ir 

0 

6 

42 


323 

0 . 

10 

20 


322 

tr 

9 

72 


344 

0 

21 

24 




62 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II 








*TR 


qV wr 


'^rpir-^rfr 


345 

0 

4 

45 

319 

0 

4 

38 

347 

0 

6 

00 

348 

0 

3 

12 

317 

0 

0 

78 

352/2 

0 

3 

00 

353/2 

0 

4 

87 

353/1 

0 

8 

52 

qnt ftp 

0 

0 

72 

355 

0 

10 

80 

372/1 

0 

8 

92 

372/2 

0 

3 

40 

373/4 

4 

7 

82 


2o( 3 )/ 67 -?nf°/ 5 rt^/iff'’/%n: ^farcr] 


New Delhi, the 16 th December 1970 

8 0. 47. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it Is necessary 
In the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 148(KJK) 
to Well No. 130(KHV)' to GGS-V, in Kalol Oil field in Gujarat State. Pipelines 
should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission; 

Arid whereas it appears that, for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1602 (60 of 1962) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction! and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

Schedule 

Tor laying Pipeline frorn Well No, 146 (KJK) to Well No, 130 ( KHV ) to G.G.S-V 
State Gujarat District i Aiehsana Taluka i Kalol 


Village 

Block No. 


Hectare 

Are P. Are 

CHHATRAL 

149 .... 


0 

1 83 

*.» 

' V. P. Cart t»*ck . 

• 

. 0 

1 83 

U 

130 ... . 

. 

. 0 

5 t 9 

II 

155 ■ - 

* 

. 0 

8 84 





Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OP INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 63 


Village 

Block Na. 




Heatafo 

A»e 

P. A*# 

Chhatrai-contd. 

156 /Paiki 




0 

I 

I s 

1 i 

ij 6 |Paiki 




0 

6 

83 

1 1 

169 



* m 

0 

II 

55 

t ) 

170 



■ • 

0 

3 

35 

i 

172 . 



# ■ 

a 

4 

03 

1 1 

211 



• * 

0 

2 

01 

ft 

173 ; 



• * 

0 

2 

01 

it 

2 io|Paiki 



* ■ 

0 

4 

21 

it 

210 )Paiki . 




0 

4 

21 

> i 

209 )Paiki 




0 

3 

QI 

1 j 

187 . 




0 

22 

05 

1 1 

188 . 




0 

I 

83 

1 # 

186 . 




0 

00 

50 

1 j- 

120 




0 

3 

90 

[No. 20 ( 3 )/ 70 -IOC-Lab. & Lefiis.l 


B^fkaY, 15 1970 

vfo wto 47. — qq : krftq topr qr> q$ spftar ?jt?rr % far srtof^r Sr qf 
*nqsqqr $ f% qqrrra mq ir *pwt^r rfcr «qq Sr w aw i 4 e(% q%)?r qrqt b'w 130 
(%o t^aro 4 \o ) *k q?T St sfto qfto ^0-5 aar 3 jtfam % qfaq^a % fart 
Star crt msrfaqr qq wm ara faak arpft =*1% 1 

«k qq : q^ srtfk ?kr $ fa ffcft qT^af aft froi% % qqknr % fan? rra|wu 
«r^(V Sr aka afa Sr aqata qq wf«qq< trftra qrw trnriw $ '■ 

5ia : qq, qjtftnm (afar q aqqtq % qfsmr qq qfaa ) qfsrfaqq, 

1962 ( 1962 qq 50) ”ht UTTT 3 aft TWIT! ( l) 31TT qqfl qrfqaqf qq aa.q qrwt grr 
^qjftq arqqr % >3RSt aqqtq qq qfaqrr qfara <6 <*t qq wn wjqiq 'ki 4 a 1 <.1 qtfqa farm* 

1 1 

qw fa qqq afa Sr faaqqq qtf sqfar, tb afa $ Hki qT^mr?q fTOfa $r fair 
tfrtqq asm irrfaqqtV, ?fw aar srrsrfaqr aa qrakr, faaFr stk k»*qq aara, aqrajTr 
ak, qqlar -9 qrt s.a qftigqqT q?Y akfa Sr 2 1 fatf % tfkr qrr akn 1 

aik ^qT wnffa qrk qrarr i[T *qfaa fafafasr q^ ?ft qrqq qkn fa qqr q^ Risjar 
| fa saqft a-iqk sqfk : ?t qi fkfY fafa wtakr q;t ansa i 

wpD* 

gswt tfw 146 %o qSi *0 Sr fat aw 130*^0 rfto nr Sr sfk 
qfVo 5 aq> fatsm 1 


Tiqq ; asraa fawr : SrrrnraT ar^qq : qqftw 


qiq 

ap>¥ qwT 

fqsr 

5TR 

'ftRH 

w^fx m 

1 49 

0 

1 

63 

- 

^0 ^fto Tpf H3P 

0 

1 

83 


<?4 TH E GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 FPaet II — 


T+Jf giKT ITWT 


fTR <T>>urT 


WHTPT-^Tf)' 


150 

0 

5 

49 

153 

0 

8 

84 

156/<T # 

0 

1 

75 

lsefitfr 

0 

6 

83 

169 

0 

11 

53 

170 

0 

8 

35 

172 

0 

4 

03 

211 

0 

2 

01 

173 

0 

2 

01 

210/7# 

0 

4 

21 

210/<T# 

0 

4 

21 

20Q/<TN?t 

0 

5 

01 

1 97 

0 

22 

05 

188 

0 

1 

83 

1 86 

0 

00 

50 

190 

0 

3 

90 


[wwt ao(3)/70“*rr° 

S.O. 41 . — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it Is necessary 
In the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. KCK(10IJ 
to GGS-V, irt Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gua 
'Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, It Js 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the power* conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declare* It* intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that Sny person interested in the said land may, within 2l days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
-whether he wishes to be heard ih person or by & legal practitioner. 

Bear dot* 

For laying Pipeline from Well No. KGK (101) to G.G.S.-V 


State* Gujarat District: Mehsana Taluka: Kaloi 


ViH«|e 

Suitey No, 


Are 

P. Are 

unnatni 

” a«7 • • • ■ 

0 

» 

o9 


*86 

a 

J 

X 


V. r: Carr TrtCt . . . 

0 

1 

*9 


Sec. 3(Ji)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 9 65 


Village 


Survey No. 



Hectare 

Are 

P. Are 

Chhatral 

288 . 





0 

i 

II 

II 

251 Paiki 





0 

«7 

>1 

250 

, 




0 

l 

0 

12 

Jl 

>1 

V 49 P. Ca.t Tmk 




0 

0 

83 

50 

11 

223 





0 

I 

23 

») 

222 





0 

6 

30 

1 1 

402 





0 

6 

91 

II 

401)1 





Q 

4 

n 

11 

402 





0 

1 

11 

4co 





0 

5 

38 

11 

411 . 





0 

3 

7* 

11 

410 





0 

1 

6 

23 

11 

1 1 

409 • 

4<*8 





0 

0 

9i 

30 

11 

453 Paiki 





0 

7 

04 

1 1 

11 

434 )a • 

433 ■ 





0 

0 

0 

8 

is 

11 

43d 








>1 

33i P 





0 

4 

3 

11 

437 • 





0 

2 

II 

425 





0 

13 

72 

11 

432 





0 

9 

03 

Isand 

<583 • 





0 

10 

*3 

11 

682 , 




• 

0 

a 

07 


[No. 20(3)/67-IOC-Lab. & Legis.] 

wr° 4 &.—m : ttwit ft n? sftrr ftm $ fa ftv f|pr *r n? 

| fa jjTRmTT^r Jf 5ft s' wt % ? fr ^ (101) itfto ft<> otto v 
% Tf7npT % faq <npim ftr nvr jrrs>f«'*F ’ttt wptFt sin firarf 3nft«n% i 

ftr rrrr : 113 uftr ftrr {!; fa qft ffi^m «i?tfTOit^HJrm%fti^^'nw5*PTHMV 
% «rfarr ijfa ^ imfa w ftftrn: wfarr «ft?tt mw $ : 

wrr : m, Tftfwr ’ T t^ mmiv t (ijfa *T gqftrr *ft ftfevn: <ft wftr ) wfafftur 

1962 ( 1962 «FT 50) ft HRT 3 ft ETSTTT (l) JPT SFTfl Vlfajft >FT JPTfa ’Fft JtJ, 
ftft<T ITT7FIT ^ ^RT^T -dMft’l vfU3>K vfan irft JIT VTTf *ilVN QTi^aTTT ftfftr fftT T 

i » 

5TTH? faTW'ljfa' fi^T^tl’ftf arfw, 

gsT^r srftmft ftr t^tt ft tt mftk, fftrW ftr SwRMinn, 

ftw, JRhT-9 ft ITT J ft mft® % 21 f^ftr % ftcTT ’FT TT%’TT I 

ftr ^ttt irra*r *rft mrrr %z srfar faPftre ft ftm faTn^T? ^tt^tt 
$ fa 3Tlft T^FTTf 5*T T. VT: ft ITT faft fafa ’ft *TTftr I 

jft TTWT % ft 0 % 0 ( 1 0 1 ) Tt fto fto ^TTo V cFF 41^9 TTITT fVwft j|ij 
T I'M! : JTOTT7T fa*. < *l^flidT cnvi'fi '• ’Fft’jf 

ft’T Tlftff’ir TfalT ifTZT WTTo ftoITTTo 


OT1TTTT 

28 7 

0 

8 

09 


28 6 

0 

5 

12 




99 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Pa*t II— 


*rtT 

(TOTT 

1 


'ftotTTTj 



0 

1 

89 


288 

0 

4 

11 


251 

0 

8 

67 


250 

0 

5 

12 


«Fl£ 

0 

8 

83 


223 

0 

0 

50 


222 

0 

1 

25 


402 

0 

6 

50 


40 1/ 1 

0 

6 

91 


400 

0 

6 

04 


411 

0 

1 

76 


410 

0 

5 

38 


409 

0 

3 

72 


408 

0 

4 

23 


<Ht 433 

0 

6 

96 


434/2 

0 

6 

50 


435 

0 

0 

75 


436 

0 

8 

8 5 


531 

0 

4 

03 


437 

0 

2 

56 


425 

0 

15 

72 


452 

0 

9 

03 


68 3 

0 

10 

15 


68 2 

0 

8 

07 



[ifalT 2Q(3)/70-*TT$° 


j n^o] 


8.0, 49. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it Is necessary 
In the public Interest that lor the transport of petroleum from KJS (K140) to 
Mini GGS At (K57), in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it la 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein: 

Provided that any person Interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laving of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 



Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 67 


Schedule 


For laving Pipeline from Well No. KJS (K-140) to Mini G.G.S. at (K-57) 


State: Gujarat 

District: Gandhinagar 


Taluka: Gandhinagar 

Village 

SurVay No. 


Hectaic 

An 

P. Ata 

titoda"* 

IIIO • 



0 

17 

63 

BHOYAN 

1109 & Ho 8 



a 

17 

30 

61 



0 

1 

17 

S % 

66 



0 

2 

82 

*1 

67 .. . 



a 

1 

«3 


68 



0 

16 

61 

'll 

69 : : : 


* 

a 

5 

»* 


t 

0 

oa 

57 

51 

48 


* 

0 

3 

11 

-31 

V. F. C«l Tuck 



0 

0 

J) 

7 * 



0 

4 

27 

1J 

73 



0 

3 

10 

11 % 

3 : : : 

• • 


0 

16 

to 

II 

♦ ♦ 


0 

10 

oa 

4 > 

92 

■ * 


a 

9 

89 

1* 

93 

1 * 


a 

10 

li 

41 

94 

r • 


0 

1 

11 

90/1 . 

« * 


0 

I 

00 

J1 

89 

• • 


0 

12 

08 

11 

V.P. Can Tiack 

* • 


0 

oa 

85 

J1 

191 ■ 



0 

8 

£ 

1 1 

i 9 o 



0 

13 

*1 

196 . 



0 

7 

5 « 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab. & Legia.] 

ipto mo wo 49 . — to : tor Yt J75 irfar $ fir «fftt%r w 

%TR 7 W $ far TOTO TTni^fWt #WT ipr« (% 140 ) ?r $ 3 TT RWT 57 

tt foft afro 'jfVo t^to ?np % Tfer^r % 'tttwipt far tot »fn 

trrak am firarif *r% i 

hit : ^ JFfar $ fo 5 TTT»ff % snfanr f% fim, wnn 

*Fjrpft *f #tr ir srotir wfavrc wlro tot wttww $ : 

TO:, TO, $ jtfaro 'TTT’TOITT (*jf*T if 3TOFr % ufWR TT TON) wfaftTO, 
1962 ( 1962 TO 50 ) qfttmr 3 ^ 3 TORT ( 1 ) TRT 5 TTO vrfWift TO TOFT TOt 

TOT ^ TTO eJTOFT TO ^rfTOR wf^l TO^ TO 5TTOT TOFT h^TRT «ftfTO f^TTOT 

t I 


Pp tto Jr %TOtr tot$ «rf%, to ^ % ;ft*r ■Ti TW fT ’f faffFf % fair 

«t#t ttto srTffarrtt, far tot srryffar to wffir, fimfir rfh twrrw-nvm, 
torstt Ttf tit w(V$tot Iff mftv *r 21 fcff £ *fFR to rtfan 1 

srtr <^tt tTT$v to^ ajrffcr fafaffar *ff yto yTOt far tot *r? ^ TO?wr 

3 t f% grorf wrPMRr: $t jtt ftnft farfa «mpfr ^ tort 1 




68 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


3J4TT %<• $o %o (%o 140) %o 57 <TT f*Pft «W 


Tpnr. tjprem 

71TOT firapt $3 1 




?rwr 


tm;o 

'ftoITTTo 


1110 

0 

17 

63 


1109 1108 

0 

17 

30 


61 

0 

1 

17 


66 

0 

2 

82: 


67 

0 

1 

65 


68 

0 

16 

47 


49 

0 

5 

61 


69 

0 

00 

57 


48 

0 

3 

OS 


otfto ipri 

0 

0 

98 


72 

0 

4 

27 


73 

0 

5 

10 


74 

0 

16 

10 


76 

0 

10 

00 


92 

0 

9 

80 


93 

0 

10 

13 


94 

0 

1 

2 8 


9011 

0 

1 

OO 


89 

0 

12 

08 


ft «FT$ 

0 

00 

85 


191 

0 

8 

42 


190 

0 

15 

68 


1 96 

0 

7 

56 


[rwt 2o(3)/70-wf° *fto ^fro/^nrr 

8.0. 50. — Whereas It appears to the Central Government that it 1 b necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from KJH (K137) To 
Mini GrGS At K57, in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein. 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, P£l and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road, Baroda-9; 





SCHBDULl 


For laying pipUne pom Will No. KFH (K 137T0 Mini G.Q.S-A.T K 57 
State Gujarat D'at • Gandhinagar TaluXa: Gandhinagar 


Villge 

Sumy No. 


Hectare 

Aie 

P. Ai e 

'bhoyan 

78 ' . '. 



0 

6 

TO 

* 1 

80 



. 0 

12 

20 

1 1 

87 



0 

13 

01 

J i 

88 



. 0 

12 

60 

i ) 

Catt Tiaek . 



0 

00 

69 

f > 

191 . 



0 

0 

30 

>1 

191 

• * 


. 0 

19 

7 i 

1 1 

194 

■ t 


. 0 

I 

10 

4 » 

196 

♦ • 


. 0 

2 

33 


[No. 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab. & Legla.] 


Bfjo WTo 50 — flWlT «TTt *f$5KfttT ?[Wr|lPp if 

gTRTWpl fv ^to ^9 (%— 137) fWMnurr %%- 57 TT farfY 

^ tsrY TrH ^ f j>M«r % 'rPWf* % M far rw wnfm jro Pm^ 

aruft ^rf^cr i 

srrtvf jtar | ftp ^ vt f*ran% % jrM % M ryr^trrrvz 
it *jftr it s-roPr *b r ^rftpprr *rM ^t^tt trrmBr | : 

trtt:, <w ^>f^T*T <rnpwrFT (*jfa) % Nfim? jft *rfsrftm, 

1962 ( 1962 W 5 o) 3TTf 3 It 'tfPCf (l) TRr JTHT TTfMf W JHiW 'PTfrjftJ 

rr wrc % wif vi <rf ! kvrt «rf^tt vW m «ttbt wp?bt ttfftnr Mr 1 1 

*MPp 3-RT ^Pr it f^m *TfaT, w ^Pr % *ft^r tnt^npr frotf % 
fir? srrtfrr *r$nr srrfsppRt, ^ ^•qT snstfcw B'rr wrrtfnr, MW ifrr ^nmr^r ?W 
fftm' , wp^rrr in, Ttfar- 9 fffq-g^nrr vt ffrffti it 2 1 fort ^ bWt wrr rMr 1 

trfPr $*rr wwr nm fafrM: *r$ *ft vWr fa wr 

$ ftp ?> *rr fa*ft fafsr «wrrft **fV *rM i 

ywrrrwr^t^ (*- 137 ) ^ %— 57 ^ fW^fr ^fr tsfV q[?r qT^TFrrfsr Profa^r 


XTfif:— Tr^nTpr Mr:- ■'Tftft •TTT fti^siT'.— TTltfWK 


nPr 

bw 


«rn: 

bY wn: 

ufarpT 

78 

0 

6 

10 


80 

0 

12 

20 


87 

0 

12 

01 




70 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 





5TR 



88 

0 

12 

6» 



0 

00 

61 


191 

0 

0 



192 

0 

19 

76- 


194 

0 

I 



196 

0 

2 

32 

20 ( 3 ) 1 7 o- tnf tft tpR tffarcrj 


SiO. 51. — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. KHK. 
K103 To GGS-V in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid iby the Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission; 

And whereas it appears that; for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it iff 
necessary to acquire the Right of TJser in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 
1962 (60 of 1962), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification, object to the laying o ftfie pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority. Oil and Natural Gas Commission, Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road. Baroda-9; 

And every person making, such an abjection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

SQHflDULS 


For laying Pipeline From Well No KHK roj To O. G.S.V 


State : Gujarat 

Dist Mehsaua 

Taluka t Kalol 


Village 

Survey No, 

Hectare Ar e 

P. Are 


1 SAND 

630)1 - 


O 

6 

93 

M 

aj7)2 . 


O 

1 

76 - 

*1 

It 

657)1 . 
648 . 

a ■ » t » 

■ * * 1 1 

c 

o 

0 

9 

50 

00 

11 

«47 • 


a 

9 

37 


666 . 

• • * a » 

c 

7 

93 


664)4 ■ 

a e * * 1 

0 

0 

30 * 

J 1 

664)2 


0 

5 

81 

J 1 

397 ) 1 ■ 


a 

6 

49 - 

i» 

674)1 


a 

6 

19 

11 

672 


0 

7 

37 

$3 

676 . 


0 

S 

42 


681 . 


0 

3 

66 

13 

682 

***** 

0 

4 

4 T 


[No, 20(3)/70-IOC-Lab. & Legist 


M. V. S. PRASADA RAU, Under Secy. 




Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 7 * 


vto mr° 51 — *rr; grvn: # srfhr #=rr % ft? wftftr 

Jfw$ srmw | ft? jpiTRr Trw ^r, losJr## ^\r 

<n? ^ jtfaw % Tfr^ % ftrj rta wwr wryffo? srr#r sttt ftrarf ?srnft 

Wrftrr | 

%flT Wft: sufar $Kti $ft $<ft NiT# # fa®# % TTfatW % ftw? 

w-jg# Jr wftw >jftr Jr vt wfsw i t wfaw %'Twr *n wr; $ : 

tr<r: , *r«r ^ftfaww TrsTWi^w (*jfw Jr w-rwft % <rftpr?iT vr n#t) ®rfWwr 
1962 (1962 ot so) ifi tnrr 3 # w-rarcr (i) nrr smr wftrwf vr wt# «*>•#■ jjtj 
fcjrfa wwit w w wfft vt wftwiT wftw v# s?r towt VTWT ^JTrTr tftfwW ftwr 

It 

to ft? *jftr Jr srffw, ww ’*jfw % ?fHr Tiviwfiprfa®# % ft# 

wfrr im srrftnrnft, .,rtw rnr wr^fav fa. srrwftT, ftr*fK 

iAt ^rmw jut# rttjtt tfa, w#tt -9 # sw ^ftT^r # wrrftr $r 2 1 ftrf ^ wftrc: 

<FT H%J|T I 

*fft $wr *rr#r ir# wi# ?r< srftr ftrfaftz: : ^ # >wr ^fr ft? *fif 
ft gw# ijwwrf #rftr?r : # wr ft# ftrfw ®w<# # # wftr 1 

$ Mi wr % ijw %, % 1 05 Jf #r # V fft? Tn(qwi*w fa®#% 

TF«r: jfsrTtrr ftwr : J^wr : vwm 

TTft WTiTWWWr $ 4 HT WiT tV WrT 


65 o/l 

0 

6 

95 

65 7/2 

0 

1 

76 

65 7/1 

0 

0 

50 

648 

0 

9 

OO- 

647 

0 

9 

37 

666 

0 

7 

95 

664/4 

0 

0 

5 0 

664/2 

0 

5 

81! 

667/1 

0 

6- 

49 

674/1 

0 

6 

19 

672 

0 

7 

57 

676 

0 

8 

42 

68 1 

0 

3 

66 

682 

0 

4 

47 


[#Ptt 20 (3) / 70 -Wif/##/?rfT,T™s#J[TW] 
Wo $0 ftrawft tt?, wtt wft# 1 




F.I 3>U. TRIAL jDE.T -OP’ME T A. D INTERN ALJTRADE 

INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 


Nea Delhi, 4th December. 1970 


S.O. 52.— In pursuance ofsub-n 4# 
limitation, hereby notifies chit the SUid u 
Indian Standard (s) are given in the Sc hcdu l ej 


Ci)of rule(i) ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marksl Rule* Tcccrlw Trvi;&„ -9 , 

wah lhl " rbil discdptioa 


TiejeJStaiiirl Mick (s) for th: pm; 
under, shillcomeiatoEorce Witheffectfrooad 


iise ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks! Act, 
he dates shown against each. 

The S rjTun rn b 


I95 2 and the Rules and Regulations framed there 


S. No. Desigi ofthe Staiiird 
Mirk 


.uct/Class of 
product 


No. and l Title of the Relevant Verbal description of the Design of the Date of effect 
Indian Standard Standard Mark encct 


(O 


(2) 


(3d 


(4) 


ts) 


(6) 


1 


2 


3 




Galvanized stay 
Strand, 


Beer 


Unplasticized FVC 
pipes for potable 
water supplies. 


IS : 2141-1968 Specification for 
galvanized stay strand 
(first revision). 


IS : (3 86 5-1966 JSpect Scat ion for 
beer. 


IS : 4985-1968 Specification for 
un plasticized PVC pipes for 
potable water supplies. 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 October 
In tiiution, consisting of letters ‘1ST. 1970 

drawn in the txact style andtrelatie pro- 
portions as indicated in col. (2), the 
number designation of the Indian Stands id 
being supers cribed on the top side of the 
monograms indicated in the design. ' 

The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 October 
institution, consisting of letters ‘1ST, 1970 

drawn in the eiact style and relative pro- 
portions as indicated in col. (2), the 
number designati an ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed onthetopside ofthe 
monogram as indicated in the design. 

The monogram of the Indian Standards 1 November 
Institution, consisting of letters ‘ISI’, 1970 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro- 
p irtions asiadicitedin col. (2), the num- 
ber designation erf the India Standard 
being superscribed on the top side ofthe 
monogram as indicated in the design. 


[No. CVD/13 I 9] 



wrennw itoi« wit wwik* «umii 
( whft fo * fiwmftnrpr) 

*iwm fw 

=ft fa??fr, 4 r^««i ^ 1970 

(Jffo sffo 54- — "Hi 1) l*fa <jWi (si^I*ln ) faw, 1955, fn^i+i 4 % ^4^*4 *i ( l) % iiH4)K *IKdl*i HH 1 * ?R*TT ^>f sffa If ^"HiHJ 
$t 3ficft I fa TTPT^r fa^f tfafat fenTH sftr mfatT fafRI rTH^rtf] VI<<rfi<H TTffaf % TPfa 5R%T =ffa if far | FT ° FT® 

d^*ri 4Ki fanffcr farj Ftr ^i 

Fnsffa Jrm> fftt {stfptt fa^) ^rfaf^m] 1952 sfrc ff% % fafro ^FFrsMfa^ sift $r fafajff 

^ FfF FT^Fl 


VI fa ■MU'* fa^c ^ 
ferr^F 


flWI^FK^fa FFFfT ®Pt 
<T*FWT*rk?frfa 

FFPT fanSTT FT FrffaF 

fa<H'*l 

hft fY fafa 

(0 ( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

' m 


IS 214 1-1968 FTFT 

FTRR J^dlO' fafafe 
(v^i ^dOsH) 

FTTjffa MH<t> SRTT FT FfafaFT 

fast ISIsps-^f { 2 ) 

Sr fa®l§ ?ffa V-JMld if 

^tr fa*rr »PTr |, sfa #ft 

16 *W«K 1970 


form | ff jfM'mm %a?rc 
Tt wfa Frcdfa ■hm^ ft* 
tfwr^tgf t 1 





( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


i*) 



ISJ^3865-1966 



Tf 'TFfr TfR^ % IS: 4985-1968 if 
«fr % 'TRf |ip& «RR1R 
# % MV^’-Ti apt 

fafafej 


3. 



OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Pa»t B— 




S.O. 53^— In pursiance of sub- role (l) erf rule 4 of tbe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules., 1955 the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Matte's), designfs) of which together with the verbal description of the design (s) and the title (3) of the relevant Indian 
Standard (s) are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been specified. 

These Standard Mattes) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed there- 
under, shail come into force with effect from tbe dates shown against each : — 

The Schedule 


S. No. Design of the Standard 

Mark 


Praduct/Qass of 
Product 


No. and Title of the Relevant Verbal description of the Design of the 
TruHan standard Standard Mark 


Date of effect 


Timber panelled and IS: 1003 (Part I>i966 S peci- 


glazed shutters. 


fication for timber panelled 
and glazed shutters (first 
revision ). 

Part I Door shutters. 


Timber door, window IS: 4021—1967 Specification 
and ventilator for timber door, window and 

frames. ventilator frames. 


Pine oil 


IS : 5757-1970 Specification for 
pine oil. 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 Nov 1970 
Institution, consisting of letters TSr, 
drawn in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in Col. (2), the 
number designation ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the top side and the 
Part No. of the specification subscribed 
under the bottom side of the monogram as 
indicated in the design. 

The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 Nov 1970 
Institution, consisting of letters ‘ISr, 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro- 
portions as indicated in Col. (2), the 
number designation ofthelndianStandard 
being superscribed on the top sine of the 
monogram as indicated in tbe design. 

Tbe monogram of the Indian Standards I Nov 1970 
Institution, consisting of letters TSF, 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro. 
portions as indicated in Col. (2), the 
number desi gnat: on ofthe Indian Standard 
bring superscribed on the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in the design. 


^No. CMD 13 : 9.] 


3 ( 11)3 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 




. 53 ~ (totto ftnj) faro, 1955, % fgro 4 % sqfgro (1) % *h+ik *nrgfa totp stot 

^ ^' 1I ^ t *nror fWl fro^g srk mfiror from *rroSk tofft % sftro g%r gl% ^ 

^ € 1 xn ° ^° ^TOT 3TTT ft aiRd %TT anr |, 

V|Ka ^ ^ H+ ' ^rf) sfafaro, 1952 *rk to% #1 ^ faror % fafro g TOrer-fra to$ tmr ?t mrtar 

«_5tpj; ft topt 1 


w*sptf 


^**i it> 

TOPP 

fenro 

^grTg/ronTO qg to 

*nrgtg gM't q>t 
to stot *flr fftro 

tot farjjj frorro to srrfeqr 
from 

tot ffr% ■Pi’ Rift 

0) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

(s) 

(6) 


1. 



2. 



% T%W ?TTT ?rk 
+h ?pr f+q i i« 


?roRt r^rwi 

Thraroff % w&it % 


IS : 1003 (TOT l)— 1966 
STl^ft % ^ TO ?ftT ipfa 
fw?f ^ faf?lfe 
("11511 ^grt^r) tot 1 
<5 <-Sm"T ^ 

IS : 4021—1967 4MMT , 
fe’rfMl *flT <tVH<m~T % 
TOnft % gfairr # fgf?rfe 


»IK^ TOPP #IT gg gVlUIH 

fwr ISIJto? I TO*T 

(2) if fa?r| ?hfr ?frc wjm 

it tor ferr tot |] sftr 4gT 
feawi | to jMtot % tot 
* tl< TOTcfPT >rm qft 
grow £t g$ 1 1 

»u<dte tot^ tott pt gVi^m 
fro# ISI to? fi?r | stop 
( 2) ^ f^Tf T^T *1HK1 
^ tor ftro tot | Tftr 
feUTO I TO mWHiiH % TOT 
^ 5TR VKdft PTTO TO- 


16TO*<R 1970 


16TORR 1970 


tfTOT^ff |l 



3. 





IS : 5757-1970^?% *TTqp? 3FTT 5T *f|j(Hn TT 

fcfofe fsra^lSI ^35 f 

( 2) n r«;| fWt *Fjrra 

Jr ^nr fan w | 

fwiq-i | a?r jfrfarnr % 3?rc 

®ft *ftr ^nrcffa mi*h t?- 

10 


1 fRi^T 1970 I f 


o ?ft l£*T yty 1 3 .* 9] 


s 


3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 



oo 


0 . 54 In nittial modification of the Ministry of Ind u s t ri al Development and Internal Trade (Indian Standards Institution) Notification 

No. S. 0 . 2925 dated 20th August 1970 published in the Gazette of India, Part El, Section 3, Sub-seed on(ii), dated 5th September 1970, the Indian Stan- 
dards Imtitnti on hereby notifies thatthe Standard Mark for sole leather has been revised. The revised design of the Standard Mark together with title 
of the relevant Indian Standard and verbal description of design is given in the following schedule. 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification {Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rule and Regulations framed 
there-under, shall come into force with immediate effect : 

The S ched u le 


Serial 

No. 

Design of the 
Standard Mark 

Product/Class of Product 

No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian Standard 

Verbal description of the design of the Standard Mark 

(i) 

(2) 

( 3 ) 

( 4 ) 

( 5 ) 



1. t it ' A Sole leather. IS: 579-1962 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards Institute or, 

| sole leather (revised}. consisting of letters ‘ 1 ST, drawn in the exact style and 

5 tTOT«* relative proportions as indicated in Col(2), the number 

designation of the Indian Standard being superscribed 
on the top side and the words ‘SOLE LEATHER’ 
SOLE LEATHER. being subscribed under the bottom side of the mono- 

gram as indicated in the design. 


[No. CMD/I39] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part 



54 - — rftt (snrm f^f) four 195s, % 4 % a’rfcm ( 1) It srt?=ffT urm # 5 *tt 

wk % ft ^Tcft | % jtpt^ fanr^V fe^r^ r *frt *TfeFF % sfahtr *j%r spigot *r 

|, fno m<> m?RT gru fmrifzcr fkft *nt 1 1 

wrcfnr #ptt (swr^ fVf ) fffa f wi , 1952 *ftx ^rsfr^r ^ nw ffcr stfj ft 

^1%TT 1 


^PT g^TT ?fTi+ fd^j '3 , cMT({/'3C l IT<;*i ^T T*I RTTcfFl JTT’T^i 

form q^# s q r xftr xvte 


^rmr w wrffepp fer»r 



^ ^t wr 


IS: 579-1962?T5%%^ri H l T dlq qT^T gFTT TV W ftrerfr ISl’ 3T^§T%ff 
# firfirfe (frmvT) ??mi ( 2) ir ftfit £*ft *rtr sn^mr it ^itt fw 

*nn m"\ < srgT ferpn -^i <41 ^ *hh'i« ih % 3>*tt 
^ issren ^ <pt sftr 

'W f5T ?t5T' (dc^ 3>T ^-HSl ) 5t*? >pt ^ I 


[€° ffto tTJTo £[oj 13 : 9] 



:. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 








S.O. fS — I 11 pursuance _of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certificaticr Mails) Regulators. 1955, the 
Indian Standards Institution here by notifies that the trask rgfce(s)perunitforvariousproducls, details ofwhich 

are given in the Schedule hereto annezed,have beendetennirtdardthefee(8)shal]ccnie into force with eSect from the date shown against each: 

The Schhxjle 


dial Product/Class of Pro- 
0. ducts 

No.and 11116 of Relevant 
Indian Standard 

Unit 

■Marking Fee per Unit 

Date of effect 

1) (2) 

0) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1. Galvanized stay strand . 

IS : 2141-1968 Specifica- 
tion for galvan’Zed stay 
strand (first rerisvm). 

One ‘mteric tonne. 

Rs. 1-50 

16 October, 1970. 

2. Beer. 

IS : 3885-1966 Specifica- 
tion for beer. 

tooolitres 

(i) Re. 1 -ooper unit for the first 1000 units, 
<ii) Re. 0*50 per unit for the next 10,000 
unit* and 

v.iii) Re, 0-30 per unit for the 1100 1st unit 
and above. 

16 October, 1970 

3. Unplasticized P VC pipes 
for posable water supplies. 

IS : 4968-1968 Specification One metre, 
formnptasticized pipes for 
potable water supplies. 

One paisa. 

1 November, 1970 


{No.CMD/i3:io.J 


& 


t 

I 

! 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 . 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part II- 


tTTTo ifto 55. — HTCfFT ETTT FPTT (5W"R falf) fafaRT, 1955, % fafaRT 7 % a'lfafaRr ( 3 ) % 5FpTT WTRffa 

#rtt qft *r glfaw fanir | far fafw qfr si fa ^nf qrfa, fsnr^i =7tr ^j-% ?FT^fr R |, frrsrffRr 

*rf | ?ik jt| t 5tn ^r% sift ?V |l fafsprr F <m srfa*rr i 

j ~3 cTH? ^T ^T 

FT35 RTfafa qRR F^TT ^rf 

sftr ttK 

Slfa RfT 331% 3% 97111 

'TFT ^ffa 3% cTTXfaT 

( 1 ) ( 2 ) 

(3) ( 4 ) 

(5) 

(6) 


T l~» s -N rv 

Xo 1.50 


1. SfFcTT =^5 <1 s^r < d+tfT< 

IS : 2141-1968 ^TcTT 33 ^ HidO 53 

<Tf?R jsfOT ri qa fafate 
(t^tt ^^nfrsror) 

1 6 1970 

2. fa*R 

IS •' 3865-1966 faRTft 1000 WIST 

fafaife: 

( 1 ) x<> 1.00 srfa^frrt 
q?5fr 1000 fq;T?jff 397 

( 2 ) ^0 0 . 50 ufa 

3WT 10000^TTfm%faTT 

( 3 ) 3° 0 . 30 srfa^^it 

liooi^^sifa ^r^T^ff 
% 1 

16WR, 1970 

3. ^ft *t IFfl Wfa % 

«ft 37 Et % 

qt?q- 

IS 1 498 5-1968 3331 *T 1 3T3T 

7T3t 3X3 % 

fr 3tirt % qr^rf qft 
fafafe 

tut 

1 TOX, 197 0 



[%° #r° 

<*3° f\°j 13 : 10 ] 


Sec, 3(U)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 8 1 



00 


S.O.56,— .In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indiain Standards Institute on (Certification [Marks) Regulations* i955> 
he Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that themarking feefsJperunitiorvarioUsfproducts,; details of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed ba?e been determined and the fee(s) shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 


The Schedule 


Serial 

No. 

Product /Class of Products 

No. ami Title of Relevant Indian 
Standard 

Unit 

Marking Fee per 
Unit 

Date of effect 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

C5) 

(6) 

I 

Timber panelled and glaaed shutters 

IS :I o°3(Part-I)-i966speciScaton for 
timber panelled and glaaed shutters 
(first revision ) 

Part I Door shutters 

One square metre 

10 Paise 

16 Nov. 1970 

2 

Timber door, window and Ventilator 
fames 

IS : 4021-1967 Specification for 
timber door, window and Ventilator 
frames. 

One square metre 

10 paise 

16 Nov. 1970 

3 

Pine oil 

IS J 5757-1970 Specification for pine 
Oil 

One litre 

1 paise 

i Nov. 1970 


[No. CMD 13:10] 


I 

I 

f 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


56. — {srtwr f^) 1955 % fafaw 7 % { 3 ) ^rrefto reft; 

Rrit wft $r ferr rtrt | % fsrftnr RF§?ft €r RftPFT qfar firr% jtV% ij f , frarflfcr ^ *rt | 

n #e Rent 3 Tfrm ?r rft ft retry 1 

srsNY 


■dnTs/Bc'TR ^PT RR 

rHR> r ^| < s<f|4^i 

^Tf 

RfcT TRilf *T ^7 
r -f ,| lf'i R^'FtTT 

rut ?T6' w>\ mfr^ 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1 

TT^rfr % m vftr 

?fk^R?r«f fro 

IS : 1003 (HUTl)-1966 RRilft%q%R 
5PT 5 Tk RTTR <=F? ftrRr?r ^ fRfafe 

(r^rt jRjfcrR), rtr 1 rtrirT % 

f%RTC 

ir?r <pf Rter 

10 

16?T^RT 1970 

2 

RTRERT, ftjff+Rt iflT 

■Osmrhi % ^fr % 
rYs? 

IS: 4021-1967 <T<nn, fefMY TfPT 

TteFreurf % ^ 

R*f 

10 

16 WRT 1970 

3 

3\g rtt 

IS : 5757-1970 tV? % Rft fafsTfe- 

'{RT 

1 

1 RRRR 1970 





[Ro #To 

CTRo #Te / 1 3 : 10] 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 83 



fw,mr C 1 ) °* Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks), Regulations , 1955, as amended 

horn suSmt-rl Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that eighteen licences, particulars of which are given in the following Schedule, have 

oeen granted authonamg the licensees to use the Standard Marks: 


The Scheduub 


Serial 

No. 

Licence No. CM/L- 

Period of Validity 



From 

To 

(1) 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

I 

CM/L-2383 . 

5-8-1970 

. . . 1-9-1970 

31-8-1971 

2 

3 

CM/L-2384 . 

5- 8-1970 

CM/L-2385 . 

6- 8-1970 

1-9-1970 

. . . 16-8-1970 

31-8-1971 

15-S-1971 

4 

CM/L-2386 . 

10-8-1970 

I-9-I970 

31-8-1971 

5 

CM/L-2387 . 

10-8-1970 

16-8-1970 

15-8-1971 

6 

GM/L-238S . 

12-8-1970 

16-8-1970 

15-8-1971 

7 

GM/L-2389 , . t 

12-8- 197c 

16-8-1970 

15-8-1971 


Name and Address of the Licensee Article /Process covered by the 

Licence and the Relevant IS: 
Designation 


(5) «0 


Pampasar Distillery, India Sugars & Brandies— ’IS 4450-1967 
Refineries Ltd., Hospet, Bellary 

District, Mysore State. 

Do. Whiskies— -IS : 4449-1967 

Shree Ram Engg. & Mfg. Industries, Domestic gas stoves for use with 
Pratapnagar (Factory Area), Bar 0 da, liquefied petroleum gases 

(Gujarat State). IS : 4246-1967. 

Pampasar Distillery, India Sugars & Rectified spirit, Grace 1 
Refineries Ltd., Hospet, Bellary IS :323-i959‘ 

District, Mysore State. 

Highland Metal Industries, Village Wrought aluminium and alumi- 
Waliv, Taluka Bassein, Distt. Thana ninm alloy utensils, Grade 
(Maharashtra) having their office at SIC-IS : 21-1959. 

B-24, Sarvoday Nagar, PanjrapoJe 
Lane, Bombay-4. 

Gagaibhai Jute Mills, Division : IJute bagging ior wrapping cotton 
Malatlal Gagaibhai & Co., Private bales— -IS : 4436-1967. 

Ltd., Sijberia, Uluberia, Distt. 

Howrah (W. Bengal) having their 
office at 38, Chowringhee Road, 

Calcutta- 16. 

I.B.I. Private Ltd., S-S6, Andheri Water stills for pyrogen- free dis- 
Kurla Road, Bombay-59 having tilled water— IS : 3830-1966. 
theirJRagd. office at Victoria Building, 

Parsee Baaar Street, Fqrt, Bpmbay- 
i BR 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part H- 


8 GMJL-2390 . 

14-8-1970 


9 CM)L-239i 

18-8-1970 


10 CMIL-2392 . 
19-8-1970 


11 CM) L- 2393 . 
19-8-1970 


12 GM/L-2394 . 
19-8-1970 

13 GMIL-2395 . 
31-8-1970 


14 CM/L-2396 . 
31-8-1970 

15 CMJL-2397 . 
31-8-1970 

16 CM/L-2398 . 
31-8-1970 


17 GM/L-2399 . 
31-8-1970 


iS CM, 1 L-2400 . 
31-8-1970 


18-8-1970 


1-9-1970 


1-9-1970 


1-9-1970 


1 -9- 1970 
1-9- 1970 

1-9-1970 

1-9-1970 

16-9-1970 

I-9-I97I 


1-9-1970 


IS-8-1971 

31-8-1971 

31-8-1971 

31-8-1971 

31-8-1971 

31-8-1971 

r 31-8-1971 
31-8-1971 

15-9-1971 

31-8-1971 

31-8-1971 


The Parsburam Pottery WorksCo. Ltd., Gla2ed eartHenware tiles-lS:77’/' 
Amarpara, Wankaner (Gujarat -1961 

State) having their Regd. office 
at Morvij (Gujarat State). 

Shah Medical Si Surgi cal Co. Ltd., Nffediss, hypodormic-IS :33i?- 
Ajwa Road, Baroda having their 1965 
office at 311, Sardar Patel Road, 

Bombay-4. 

Tropical Agrosystems (P) Ltd., 320/2 Endrin emulsifiable concentrates 
B, Vanagaram Road, Ambattur, IS : 1310-1958. 

Madras-53, having their office at 
20 Maniappa Road, Madias-10. 

Associated Instruments MIr’s (I) Pri- Cube moulds lor cement testing 
vato Ltd., 35, Najafgarh Road, as per clause 8.4.2.— >IS : 4031- 
New Delhi-15 having their office 1968 
at Sunlight Buildings, 26-27, Asaf 
Ali Road, New Delbi-i. 

Yogi Raj Chemical Laboratories, Gill Ink, stamo pad— IS : 393-1968. 
Road, Millerganj, Ludhiana. 

The Hindlron Foundry, RaiiwayRoad, Cast iron flushing cisterns lor 
Batala (Punjab) water closets and urinals, high 

level, bell type, 12.5 litres, 
capacity only— 'IS : 774-1964. 

Excel Industries Ltd., 184-87, Swami Malathion technical — > IS : 1832- 
Vivehanand Road, Jogeshwari, Bom- 
bay-60 1961 

Do. Malathione mulsifiable concen- 

trates— IS : 2567-1963 

Tuticorin Salt Refineries Ltd., Urani Light magnesium carbonate for 
Exatension, Salt Factory , Tuticoiin- cosmetic industry — 18:2528- 
4 having their office at 283, West 1963 
Gr e at Cotton Road, Tuticorin-2. 

Gannon Dunkerley S> Co. Ltd., OidWelded low carbon shteel gas 
B.P.T. Road, Mahul, Bombay- 74 AS cylinders of 33.3 litres water 
having their Regd. Office at Char- capacity lor the storage and 
teted Bank Building, Post Box No, transportation of low pressure 
1547, Fort, Bombay-i BR. Itquefiahle gases — 18:3196- 

1968 

Artee Minerals, 15/7, Mathura Road, Malathion emulsifiable con- 
Faiidabad (Haryana) ctratas— IS : 2567-1967 


! 


[No. CMD/13.11] 


Sec, 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 85 



sfto 57, — ^-rr JT^q- <R %lfrf%T fTl-TT? TTFTT (SUTTER f%f) f%f%W, 1955 % 8 % 34 fVfriR { l) 

% iTRRq- qRpp =r>47 tTI %TT % qf^T fen ^TcTT | f% 18 -fl?€3 f%3% '>TR %[% % f?% | 31T3ff9lfUJT 43 TTT'i'fi 

iTf* ^TT?r qrT iTfgqnX fir F%fi3 *1% I : 


’FI •jteqr 3739% TTWT 

%T n-q/TTTT 

wg-ciT %r irsfk 

3T?3W% 3>T 4Ttt %TT 93T 

3T?%3 % 3TWR 3Fj/S rf%lT 

?m nwRFsft *rreffa 31341 
IS : 'T^mr 

O' 

3=6 

Cl) 

( 2 ) 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

1 

3* ^j^-2383 

1-9-1970 

31-8-1971 

'TPTTlR fefe^Rt 

ST felt 


5-8-1970 



i ferr fro tjo? P<qsH<N f% 0 

IS : 4450-1967 





fNte, ?RTfr fw 






*rgr ttht 


2 

3t^T/t^T-2384 

1-9-1970 

31-8-1971 

j ; 

fifest 


5-8-1970 




IS : 4449-1967 

3 

%f ^T/0[3-23 35 

16-8-1970 

15-8-1971 

%[U3 ?%l faster irarS^wFur 

sfw fa % 3133 


6-8-1970 



snippm (q>qff sra) 

41% fa +%I4 





4%Nt (JJSTCRT w) 

IS •' 4246-1967 

4 

St t[fl/(^r-2386 

1-9-1970 

31-8-1971 

TPTTJR 

qfcsrtfan ferfe, fa 1 


10-8-1970 



55713 IrqiHfte f^Q 

IS 1 323- 1959 





3 3R[ fsf3T 






TjTq- 



8 


OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part U- 



5 2387 

10-8-1970 


6 Zft l^r/^-2388 
12-8-1970 


7 iff inT/t»7T-2389 
12-8-1970 


8 #T^/^-2390 

14-8-1970 


9 ?ft 15*1/^-239 1 
18-8-1970 


16-8-1970 


16-8-1970 


16-8-1970 


16-8-1970 


1-9-1970 


15-8-1971 

<rk ^"fk , <TM4<T 
f^rr «rr?TT (trfiTr^) 
fTfTT yf-24 ~=fft4 

pRTtT^T JTWt, yRff-4 *f | I 

15-8-1971 WtiWi fk&T 

qTo 5JT° fftcs 
R-mT, dH_4 fw 
ferrimfT (qo surr^r) 
fqqrT qrnrftrc 38 Tft 

4.'5I4)7TT- 16 $ | I 

15—8—1971 iSlTfo Wk yrfo SFT° f^To 
i*q-86 ?T3Xt Tft 
^Rf-59; 

vRiT qiTqfvR r=f4iiir<9r r«( t??!! 

H I <tT I 3T-4T < '-bli, 1 *T ^ I 


15-8-1971 


31-8-1971 


ft qTrft qio ftr° 

^PTRIfT, srftPTC (*pTU7T 
P ^TtF^o qrrqftrqqftf (ipnr^7.T5q) 
: £*r I I 

n 

5IT^ *} Fs4rH IT1R RjRRT f O fq» 

<12, ^sftl 

?-T5FT qmriwq 3 1 1, ?trr q^TT ft¥, 

y*rf-4 *r 1 1 


Rd4 I O/^Fh iTl< Or^Cf- 

Fq^yig ^ qyq 
ur ^ ?nt ^ 

IS : 21-1959 

gy) irftf Jr % ftft 

q^ER 3ryfVr — 

IS : 4436-1967 


qrqfRq-T%T qT?pT iftt % 
f?P5?m — 

IS : 3830-1966 


ql 4T'H 5T?'-f44 < % TT?5T 

[IS : 777-1961 

%W— 

IS : 3317-1965 


Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 "87 



10 ?f|- trrr/tT^-2392 

19— S— 1970 


11 2393 

19-8-1970 


12 t^jM -2394 
19-8-1970 

13 tfV TT^/^-2395 
31-8-1970 


14 ^Tnr/^-2396 

31-8-1970 


/ __ s 

1—9- 1970 31-8-1971 1/ " ISM310-1958 

520/2 Xt ^TTTTH XtS 

xstei-ss 

^7 jpTHfcm 20 Hfa t 9 TXtX, 10 

^<pt IS • 

26, 27 ^ s ’ ^ fe^" 1 

^ ^ 1 _«p... p r y-r XfX 9X 

1-9-1970 31-8-1971 1t*m4*«**tt&* IS * 393— 1968 

Tm xrx, faxx irx 

^rfg?r x T jrarxxi % f^r 1 2 • ; 

1_9_1970 31-8-1971 5TFTX1 91T , ffTTlI XT 

(^) 


^^970 31-8-1971 ^snKfnsr^r* 

1 84-87 IXlffr 

XloMXlj 7 


j^rraxt % m 12.5 

?fXrx xi*rrl TPXt 3 *t xrx 

^T 5 Tt 5 OTT 
q^T5I ^f^ferr 
IS : 774-1964 

IS : 1832-1961 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, Iffl/PAUSA «. 



15 ?frtttT/cr^-23 9? 

31 - 8-1970 

16 t^/tT€-2398 

31 - 8-1970 


17 *fl ^flT/^-2399 
31-8-1970 


18 TT qq/q?r-2400 
31-8-1970 


1-9-1970 

16 - 9-1970 


1-9-1970 


1-9-1970 


31-8-1971 


IS : 2567-1963 


15-9-1971 


31-8-1971 


iJcfo> I <.fi ^ TTT Tqia’q % f^T^T 

TTHfl qTHZrSfq, H J l r flfei3 , l' sfmTU— 

6 T<r£ 9j=tiCl, 4 

^rrcrm^r 283 x\s, 

3<ffa"k6-2 flr I I IS: 25 28-1963 


*r»r»r q 11 ^ f^o 

Tto ^ 1 ° Tt?, JTTfW 

^t-7 4 q qff 

fTTT Tf?«3 spETfaq 1 qiii TT 

q>o^Toq-'o 1547,3fr?,5^-lCrm^ 

f | I 


UrO 2'4‘ l 4l , l TT^FTt ^ 

nnzrvn sfl Tif^r#? 

fwq 33 . 3 TtHT <TTTf 4?t 
fPllf# #5S£cT 5T59T 

=Pr#^ % PTT4-% rfafafaiT 
’IS : 3196-1968 


31-8-197 1 5TRWT ffTTOlff 
15/7, 6^TT 


6 r 4 : fsq-q-'TT THTf]:ffa’ 
IS : 2567-1967 


[?mr m qq =rr/ 13 : 1 1 ] 


W 


8 


:. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 89 



VO 

O 


Nets Delhi , the 10th December, 1970 

S.O. §8 — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Slandard 
Institution hereby notifies that the Standard Mark's), desigu(s) of which together with the verba] description of the designs) and the tit]e(s) of 
the relevant Indian Standard (s)/are given in the Schedule hereto annexed, have been specified. 

These Standard Mark(s) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations Framed 
thereunder, shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 

The Schedule 


SI Design of 

No. the Standard 

Mark 

Product/Class of Product 

No. and Title of the Relevant 
Indian Standard 

Verbal description of the Design of the 
Standard Mark 

Date of effect 

I 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


1 



Tower bolts 


IS : 204-1966 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards Ins- 16 September 1970 
tower bolts {second revision) titution consisting of letters TSF drawn 

in the exact style and relative proportions 
as indicated in col. (2),thenum berdeslg- 
nalion of the Indian Standard being su- 
perscribed on the top side of the mono- 
gram as indcated in the design. 


2 



Propeller type ac ventilating 
fans 


IS : 2312-1967 Spec'ficaticn for 
propeller type ac ventilating 
fans ( first revision] 


The monogram of the Indian Stardaids Ins- 
titution consisting of letters ‘1ST, drawn 
inthe exact style and relative proportions 
as indicated in col. (2), the number de- 
signation of the Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the topside of the mono- 
gram as indicted in the design. 


16 Oct 1970 


3 



Metal heald frames for flat 
steel healds 


IS 14465-1967 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards 
metal heald frames for flat steel Institution, consisting of letters ‘ISI\ 
healds drawnin the exact style and relative pro- 

portions as indicated in col. (2), themim- 
ber designation of the Indian Standard 
beingsuperscribed onthetop side of the 
monogram as indicated in the design 


1 Oct. 1970 


[No. CMD /13 .- 9 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part H- 






STffSwft, 1 0 ftHJ-JfT, 1970 

tr?To sfto 58 — '*TP r -fpT 9T^7 T^q-; (KHI«l<Tf^r) faTF 195 5, %fa*m 4 % ( 1 ) % SR1TP RFF6 WT Wt 

?frr % ^ptt ft smft | f% rfpf fr^r ftnr 't ferr^r sfk wif^t ddfHf&fr wk *rmt % a%r ^t% sra^Rf R f^ 

|, 4Tr m 59WT 3TTT faaff^ falT ipT f I 

TTn^fta 1 9 T 5 T 4 T orqT (hht«m f^r) irfWm 1952 ?rfc 3% faw Sr frftra n ^rSr^mr fcreft fefwf 

iW*Nt 

S3 C\ 



f^sf 




gfarr^t Mw (prr 


IS : 2312-1967 ^ 

RT % q^TT 6 ">ld+ 

tct qrf f¥%fe 


ISI 9T3? fr% I rRP^T ( 2 ) t fenf 

^rrr ?t 1 t *Hmd *r <i 44 i ft- 2 i 1 <it 1 

o 

1 1 f sr | ^ Reform 

% *4 < ^ TTRTna - *4Ht qif 

q^fwT Tt §f | 1 

6 1 Hitt <tVm qrr oltlli i*t f^66 

ISI ftt ( 2 ) Rfs^TI 

^ sffT *R9Tcf t #2TTT fam »FTT 
|, sfh: | r^ ^fr- 

?rw % ^ 97 : irtx irrofk hfff 

9?t 9? 6 «tl ?V ^ I 


16 < 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 91 






( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


(3) 


(0 



^FTTcT % <,( % [is, 4465-1967 fCTTl 

ffej Hid, % ^IPT % ^IwsT % fsi i* 

aid, % ^)<rs-4)6 



srrvfnr to^p to ^t jfrfemr ffenr i m&sx 1970 
I Si sror^lRTTO ( 2 ) f foart 
sNft ?m w^nra- 1? ;fim fen wr 

>3 

|, 5ffe ^6T fearer | 37T nWtrw 
% <> ^?r ?tVi sTR^fer ttpt^ nfr 

15 TOT gf I I 



[ffo ffr inr g\j I 3 : 9 ] 


E OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II- 





S.O. 59 — In pursuance of sub-regulation (3) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Matte) Regulations 1955 
the Indian Standards Institution hereby no itfies thatthe marking fee(s) per unit for Various products details of which art given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed, have been determined arid the fee(s) shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 

The schedule 


si 

No. 

Product/Class of Products 

No. and Title of Relevant Unit 

Indian Standard 

Marking Fee per Unit 

Date of effect 

I 

2 

3 4 

5 

6 

I 

Tower bobs 

IS : 204-1966 Specification for One piece 
tower bolts (second revision) 

i paisa 

16 September 1970 

2 

Propeller type ac ventilating fens 

IS : 2312-1967 SpeciSc^ion One fan 
for propeller type ac ventilating 
fans 

(0 Rc.i .00 per unit for the 1st 1,000 units 
and 

16 October 1970 

3 

Metal heald frames for flat steel 
heakls 

IS : 4465-1967 Specification 1,000 cm 
for metal heald frames for 
flat steel healds 

(ii) Re. 0.50 per unit for the 1,000 1st unit 
and above. 

Re roo 

October 1970 


[No.CMD/13 : 10] 

A.K.. GUPTA, 
Deputy -Direct or General, 


to 

W 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 






tpfo 5 $ — (srtws N^t) fVffpm, 1955 % ftfw 7 % ( 3 ) % sTssnt srrt<rte tn^s 

tfWT f^T^TcrTl fVf*m ? far |, 3ft ni| *rtr % 'M 

ars% ^rPT foifft - fciPiznr ^ stpt ^ ^iii*ft 1 



wts 

3cTrs/3?'TTC ?T 

SWSS' ITRcfar RTSS? srr 7S- 
RWTSlfa sfTSS 

5srf 

Jlffl fSHi* RtTSoTSl^ S>t 

'Em- 

5tpt ^ crrfm 

(0 

(2) 

(3) 

(4) 

(*) 

(«) 


1. IS: 204-1966 OT1 16 fWd'^rC 1970 

g#nff ^ fsrfofe (fw 
q,?TCt?Em) 

2 . ^ft4rTg<K6r^id+'rt IS: 2312-1967 tr rT % i^qrar ( 1 ) q^sfr iooo^r?m 

tsstv q'gf sft cpp i.oosrfe 

f¥srfe f^rrf 

( 2 ) 1001 ; 3*T% 16 *TfSST 1970 

9PTS %fsftr 

So 0 . 50 Ufa VFTi 

3. % =snt % fsrcr gr^ % IS:4465-1967 SS'TRT % 1000%R> So 1.00 l?t^ST 1970 

jffaTt % f%TT gj^ % 

frsr-^s- 


Jffo *fro IT^o ^- 0 / 13 : 10 ] 
tTo %o S^TT, 


1 


THE GAZE1TE OP INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part H- 




Sec. 3(li)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUXA 12, 1892 95 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR, EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 

S.O. 80. — In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri D. S. Nim, Joint 
Secretary to the Government of India, Department of Labour and Employment, 
to be a member of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment) No. S.O. 2651, dated the 9th August, 1986, namely: — 

In the said notification under the heading “[Nominated by the Central Govern- 
ment under clause (c) of section 4]” — 

(a) the entry against item 4 shall be omitted; 

(b) the existing entries against items 6 and 6 shall be inserted against items 

4 and 6 respectively; 

(c) against item 6 , the following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 

"Sihri D. S. Nim, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Depart- 
ment of Labour and Employment. New Delhi.” 

[No. F. 2O2/2/70-HI.] 


NT, TYuRTY TTWfa MRIMR 
(nt ifrc itw firm) 

feff, 1 1 Iwcf, 1 97 0 

quo 60 — tt*NttY tfkt ^Ytt NfafaTT, 1948 (i948«M 34 ) a?Y 
RRT 4 % N^TTN if, %Tf>T NT$TT NT far, T^TcT TfNJ, NITT 'IWT, 

HTtr tAf TtWf fTT(T WTTU TTW TYTT faTT TT TTCT TTffY $ sftT 

NTCT ITWT % NT, TtTTR tYT g/T^T TfTTT (NT fYTTTT fTTIT) tfY wftrgNTl 
No TTTo 2551, dRY® 9 TT?T, 1966 if NTT fa* ffNfafT 

NNfa : — 

ntt Jr "(uni 4 % (t) % NtfYr %RfYT nustt am 

NrTfTfsre)’’ ifrfa % tY> — 

) TS 4 % TTT% 4?T Srfrfe Ntl XR fTUt Nl^TT ; 

(qt) T5 5 6%TTT^lftfT4rTTTTfafi27rtT>TTr?r. TS 4 «/Yt 5 %TTT% 

fF4T T^TT ; 

(t) 8 % ttt% fT*TfNf«R Tfafa; tpr: nutra a?Y stR^fY, N«rfe ■ — 

"nY #Y« quo faq, 

Nafd TfTN, TTCT RTfJT, 

NT nYt tYTTR fTTHT, 

Tf ftFtfY r 


[tfo <5T° 202/2/70-qNo WT$o] 




96 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


S.O, 61. — In exercise ol the powers confeWrred by sub-section (1) of section 
13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri G. Pullaiah to Be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territories of Chandigarh and 
Himachal Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed 
thereunder, in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under the control of, 
the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected with a 
railway company, a mine or an oil field or a controlled industry. 

[No. A. 12015(2)/70-PFI(i).] 

vie wr° 6i. — wrwW fafa srfafawr, 1952 ( 1952 w 19 ) W wtt 

13 W TqtifTTr (l) JTTi WiTT Hfr-TU Tf Wfar TFT fj FFTTTTTTTFT hfpsfto 

Wt ew Wsrfawr Wf sftt wffa fsrrfwr faFft % jpflwfr % far 
FTTTTT % qf 3Ffa faWWtffa faFft FWWT % FFTO if W faFfffa UPT W far WT ITT 
fdhfiTT Taffa % FUTfWr f%Fft FUNd V FfatT % TTPr WT ffuimT TT^W Wt 
’cftT fiurrwr tr^fr $r tut u"T-farr % fan; faTYew fafiT tfW | 1 

[fo !T 0 1 201 5 ( 2 ) /70— Tfo I(ii)] 


S.O. 62. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sectio n(l) of section 
13 of the Employees' Provident Funds Act, 1952 (19 of 19521), the Central Govern- 
ment hereby appoints Shri M. L. Gupta to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
Union territory of Delhi for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme 
framed thereunder, in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under the 
control of the Central Government or and in relation to any establishment con- 
nected with a railway company, a mine or an oil-field or a controlled industry. 

[No. 21(5)/68-PF-I.] 

vio wto 62 . — wfanrY Rfaw fafar srfafwr, 1952 (1952 w 19 ) 
W vjttt 1 3 # Tmu ( 1 ) a : ft 5 pm vrfapfr w srqfa tft §f %Wzr FTTTJTtTcpraTTi 
W o n-q-o tpTo W TW WafaWT Wt OTT' WTfa farfarf faFfr fW*T % T'TFPTT 
% fa? (WT FTTWT % TT 3F(% faqWHTtffa fwfr WR % FUWR FT hi faW WWft, 
T5TT-T Tr jfa STtT hr ffiTfad FlfPT ^ FT^f^d FW’R % FfRFtf R FH^t fafat Ffa 
TIFT-FT % fat[ faWRT | I 

[FTWT 2l(5)/68-Wo TUUo-I] 


S-O. 63— In pursuance of section 8 of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri D. S. Nim. 
Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment, to be a member of the Standing Committee of the Employees State Insur- 
ance Corporation, and makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabili- 
tation (Department of Labour and Employment) No> S.O. 995 dated the 1st March, 
1969, namely: — 

In the said notification under the heading “(Nominated by the Central Govern- 
ment under clause (b) of section 8)” against item 2, the following entry shall be 
Inserted, namely : — 

“Shri D. S. Nim, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Department 
of Labour and Employment, New Delhi-” 

[No. F. 202(2)/70-HL] 

*r° wo 63 — v r farf r tt^t Wwwfafawr, 1948 (1948 w 34 ) W - arm 
8 % wjFmr * frwt trrr^sm W sY° fa*, FTfwr, wr 

Wt TfaCrr faWi',W WTWW TT^f W*F faWT W FW^ Fffafa VI F(W dlFtfafa^ 
^tfW I Wit wtft ftpktt 3? wr, Wwnr Wr jrWft rw wr (wr Wr Ttwnr faFTPT )W 




Sec. 3(h»] THE GAZETTE OF INDTAi JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUS A 12, 1892 


97 


wrfT'Tr ?TTTr fto *rrt>995 tiyOm ttt jtv%, 1969 $ <rk 7? r'T-f.'T'rr iiU t 
FTdV | , — 

3 W *rfti^RT Jr "(arrr s % ^ (^) % srsftr %?fTF tttfit mr dTFfFfa’sj) " 

sfWF % tfWt *tt 2 % srNrfer sr^: stVrt : 

“«fr ST° crffo fan, 

tffrr, fttct tttftt, 

*ftr <mjik f%*rnT” 

[%° FTo 202 ( 2 ) / 70 -ct^o wnlfo] 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 

S.O. 64.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (43 of 1948) and In continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 1603 dated thp 
133rd April, 1970 the Central Government having regard to the location of the fac- 
tory, namely, Workshop belonging to the Municipal Corporation, Indore, In an 
area In which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer’s special con- 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 29th June, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 28th June. 
1971. 

[File No. 601(2)/70-HI.] 

niftvTf, 16 19 70 

fto 5srr° 64— FifarifT iwr srfar srftjf'm, 194 s (i948 ft 34 ) 

%T 917173 ^STTTJpTfT vriWiT -FT STOW FT % tffa «TRd flTFlT % NF, TtFlTC %l7 

miRR (srn tV-ht fsTwr) %t srfafFTT %w ft® sto 1 eos tTTfFsr 23 

wfrr, 19 70 % FT Jr %sffa nTTR FTWfa. FFTF, WT faFF, *#7 %V FfarTFT 

-m %, from tft srftrfaFF % spaum 4 itTt 5 % t-titr Vdci wfrqff ft sm-r 

% TO JV TFT FTWfa Ft TFT FfafFTF, % ST5TTF 5~F % fftffa fafatFF F 

fFW STf^fTF % TTCR % 293[F, 1970% 28^d, 1971cTFf3TF% f%T TTfa>Tf?LT 

<^F *tTt FT Ft F RTF fa % f%<? qdTaTTr ® 7 %cff 1 1 

[%o Flo 6 01 ( 2)/7 0-tTF° srrf] 

S.O. 63. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1048), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha- 
bilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No- S.O. 4832 dated the 20th 
November, 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
'Tirumala Tirupathl Dewasthanam Transport Garage Workshop, Tirupathi in an 
area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, 
Jhereby exempts the said workshop frorn the payment of the employer’s special 
-contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 28th August, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 27th August, 
1971. 

[No. F. 601 (22)/70-HIJ 

Ffo 4TT° 6S:--F%FT% TTFT affaMTf%fFF>T, 1948 ( 1948 FT 34) %t STITT 
7 3 F 3TTI STFST ¥rfFTFT FT FFtF FT% *%T FTTF TT7F17 % «T*T, TfaFTT tfk yTF%T 
faflRF («nr %tT TfaFTT fFFm)%t STfafFFT %o FT°FTo 4832FTTtH’ 26 FF*FT,1969 
% Ft? % FFTfa TTTFTT ftpPTR fTFlfFFT «TTFF *f%F FFTTET, faFTfa f'T m 

% fff #m % Fcmr 4 sfk 5 % ttf^st stf'ft $, srFf?*rfF f'T sftf % tst% 



98 thb gazette of india:. January 2, i? 7 i/pausa 12, 1892 [part h— 


4 ^ % ws^rnr 5-41 % wtflu % f^wr?r f^TTFt 

% *TCUT ^ 28 Wfiid, 1970 ^r 27 TOTTO, 1971 tPF fara^T 4$ faff fft RH-nfad $, ^ sflT 
ffff =ffr qmff fa % fan* tT^ffirr ^ | 

[ffo Wo 601 ( 22) / 7 0— ffffo trfao] 

S.O. 66. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment 
and Rehabilitation, Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2970, 
dated the 16th July, 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the factory, namely Cottage Industries and Textile Training Institute, Nagpur, 
In an area in which the provisions of Chapter IV and V of the said Act are in force, 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer’s special con- 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 2nd June, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 1st June, 197L 

[No. F. 601(19)/70-ffi.J 

(pTo 66. — TIM sffaT Sffafffffff, 1948 ( 1948 M 34) apt 

itrt 7 3^ am mrt wfopflr tt jrfffa §it seffa *rmr tor % m, tWitt iffy jfifffa 

faff Iff) 4?T fffa^ffffT ffMTMo iffo 2970ffrcf<J 1 6 f[Rfr£, 

1 9 6 9 % fflff if %-Stq- ffTFTT WfiJH, Miff f iftff ^ffc Mff fffwff MffTff, fffffffT 

4>t<t % £?r Jr, farcfa ffff wfafffffff % mm? a irk 5 % smr $, wffffarfa 4 ft e^tr if 
wt |tr um qrrujfa qft tn tffafmr % vt-TR s-qi % ffatff fffffLM % 

faijfff fffffffR 41 (KR ft 2^ff, 1 97 0 ?T ffffffffff. 19/1 cTF fffffff ff*J faff *fl fffrfffarffr 
t, ffip fffaffff 4iV sfTRTRTPtf % faff ’ffffff’ffm fa) & I 

[ff o 'Mo 60 1 ( 13)/- O-tp’J Wf o ] 

5.0. 67. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees' State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha- 
bilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S O. 683 dated the 11th 
February, 1970, the Central Government having regard to the location of the Police- 
Automobile Workshops at Bikaner and Jodhpur, in an area in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts the said work- 
shops from the payment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 
1st July, 1970, upto and inclusive of the 30th June. 1971. 

[No. F.0O(21)/7O-HI.| 

WTo 67. — ffiffffifa TTM faff! wfafaffff, 1948 (l948 M 34) 4?f 

Rm 7 3ff ffTTT SffrT Wfffffffi FT fffffa fN gff far ffrTff ff TMT % MR) fffaffR sftyjff- 
fffaffffFTff (MfffafffaffRfaffrff) 4ft’fffafffffffrff5ffT4ff° sn° 683ffrfa3r nqmnO-, 

1 9 7 0 41 MT if fafafff TOR fffaffffT sffa fffaffT Jf fffaff RlfafffaT^T fffa WIN fat M 

rfa sfar if, farcm sm srfafaffff % MffR a wfa 5 % ffffff fffffarfa fa err Jf 

TRff gTT WWRf'l fa ffffff Rfafffffff £ RERR 5-41 % Rfaff ffTfffal ff ffffflffffi 4T 
faffaRffaiff %*prR%5m Mint, 1970 ^ 30 ^ 4 , 1971 fw ff^ffafa 
faff &, Rfflfaffffff fa 4Rffrfffa % faff ffffffffTTT §7ft | I 

[(To Mo 60l(2l)/7 0 — ff^o Mfel 

5.0. 68. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha- 
bilitation (Department of Labour and , Employment) No, S.O. 4411 .dated the 22nci 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1M1/RAUSA 12. *892 99 


October, 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location cf the estab- 
lishment. namely Security Paper Mill Project, Hoshangabad, In non-implemented 
area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not In force, 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the payment of the employer's special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 1st November, 1970 upto and Inclusive of the 31st October, 
1971. 

[No. F. 601 (47) /70-III.] 

VTo *TTo 68. — ‘TRINITY TRN sfiNT STfafaffR, 1948 ( 1948 NT 34) %Y 

erm 7 3N 5 ttt st^tt wmm tt srtfnr ntt g-T stYt vtttct critt % nt, tr-ht nr; jdNrir 
N5YNR («PT *tYt TYWT ftupr) %Y wfagNTT fo 5TT° 4411 dFTN 2 2 NffJNT, 
19 6 9 % if %? fW FTNTT TNTT'T %Y fiFPftfrJft %TT f*TN RYnNS, ^W’TRTN %Y 
WNTNfRNT WT %f, fNOT TTT NftTpThN % THNIN 4 sYYt 5 % RTTV TfT dff f, NTfPlfd 
NT etfR* if TNT gtr ^ TNTgN NY 3NI NftrfWT % HWT 5-N % Ntftd T^Tg 1 NTT fdNTTN 
% Um Nf'TTih % Ni'PT % TNN NNRT, 197 0 % 3 1 NN$¥T, 197 1 NT fTNE N? fad NT 
NfTNfNcT IJN sfYr % TETRftT % fTT q^JTTT ® 3 %ft I 

[ff°NTo 6'0l(47)/70-qNo tnfo] 


S.O- 69. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica- 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re- 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 4831 dated the 26th 
November, 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location of the Diesel 
Power House owned by the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay in an area in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the Act are in force, hereby exempts the said 
power house from the payment of the employer's special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 
6th November, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 4th November, 1971. 

[No. F. 601 (48)/70-HI.] 

NT* WTo 69. — TRg 3f>NT vfsrfatTN, 1948 ( 1948 NT 34) %Y STITT 
7 3N SilTT 9TT NpRPff NT 5r%rN NT% ftr nYt NTTT TTTNTT % «TN, TRTTT ?fiT NdVld 
WENT («1PT *tYt Tt^BTR f%NH ) NT NfvgR-TT N«TT TTo NT° 4831 NItYn 26 NTRTT, 

1 9 69 % NE TY N^STE ETTTTERf ErTN RTE, % TETfEcETtfYE fYW TINT gTEE %T 
5W %, f5RT% 7W Nfsrf%dN % ESElE 4 NYt 5 % EE^E ENtT NNfTNfN NT SEET E 
TNN ftr ENT TINT yTTEE %Y ETcf TTnjfEEE % EtETE 5-N % E-XTE EEE^nYe FeERN % 

f%?ta«rf*nfPT%tf?rpr % senrt, 1970 % eeert, 1971 nn Fetey E g F ee eYe1%e- 
f%E % ITT nYt NT %Y NRrFe % F?T% ^ JTTT %ET | I 

[ifo NT° 60l(48)/7 0-t[=R Nrfo] 


S.O. 70. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 87 of the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
exempts (1) Mourigram Installation (Marketing Division), P-O. Radhadasi, District 
Howrah, and (2) Dum Dum Aviation Fuel Station (Marketing Division) Dum Dum 
Airport, Calcutta, belonging to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., from all the provisions 
of the said Act for a period of one year with effect from the date of publication of 
the notification in the Official Gazette. 

[No. F. 602(22) /70-HI.] 

NT° WTo 70. — NE'EEft TRT 5fYET STFsiInEH, 1948 ( 1948 NT 34) nY STTTT 
87 3FTT 5pm BfFTNT NT SHTET NT% fn N^fYN NTNIT RdNSm 'NTTfYN %TfW 
I^PtidT % ( l) pItY CHT ^WleiVTd (faWT SHTPl) TETF^TTfY, fw fTNNT xftx 



Iqq THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: ■ JANUARY 2, 1971/PATJSA 12. 1892 [Pa*t 


( 2) th tit twrcn-vl' wfafaw £ inff sunn # tw *rftn^r $ 

Sllff+'fa Uffffff itffIfffaff?tJri?tffltt3r $cfr$ i 

[ffo mo 602(22)/ 70—^0 nt§o] 


S.O. 71. — In exercise erf the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government having 
regard to the location of the factory known as Electric Meter Workshop and In- 
strument and Relay Section, Nlrman Bhawan, New Delhi, belonging to the New 
Delhi Municipal Committee, in an area in which the provisions of Chapters 
IV and V of the Act are in force hereby exempts the said factories from the 
payment of employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act for a period of one year with effect from the 11th September, 1970 upto 
and inclusive of the 10th September, 1971. 

[No. t. 602(38)/70-HI.] 

*To wio 71. — TffTKt Tfsti sfr*rr trfkfnW, 1948 ( 1 9 4 8 aff 34)' 
ifr aro 731 sirr niff Rfiffir in srifff ^ ffHfrff ron n$ ffiriTfffiff 

fff?£ff jffrv; WITffT wlff ^WITT Ilk fLvT NffffTff, fffffTW '<Tffff, fff fcevff, oTff«6 I.mTfff 

iffjffffff p, fi-rff yw srffjfTffff % miw 4 nYt 5 % Tiff ff stiff * Nfffffifff sffrff if 

Tffff Jtr fftff WlTOf Iff Tiff Nfafnffff % NWff 5-H I> fftffff AlffiffTfl fffffiffff % 
fff IT NfffffTff % ffTlff ff 1 1 fffffJffff, 1970 ff 10 fffffRff, 1 97 1 fffP fffffff d? fffff lift 
fffwrfffff % fff r't ffrffTify % fffo; TTffffim vz ^ff % i 

[fio iffo 602 (3s)/70iTxro srrfo] 

S.O. 72.— Nil. 


S.O. 73 Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that Messrs National 

Coal Development Corporation, P.O. Kathara, was situated in Kathara area which 
was a sparse area (that is, an area whose insurable population was less than 500] 
in the district of Hazaribagh in the State of Bihar; 

And, whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the employers special contribution 
under section 73-F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act. 1948 (34 of 19481 until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in that area by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment anc 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Emp’oyment), No. S.O. 3400, dated the 
10th September, 1968; 

And. whereas the Central Government Is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Kathara area in the district of Hazaribagh in the State of Bihar has now 
exceeded 500. and it is no longer a sparse area; 


Now, therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73-F of the Em- 
ployees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby 
makes the following further amendment in the said notification, namely: — 

In the Schedule to the said notification Serial No. 1 and the entries relating 
thereto shall be omitted. 


[No. F. 603(4)/70-HI. 


*To «To 73 , — Iff: TffjfffT fffflffT Iff ff£ ffffTfflff ft ffffl *H f«P 4fftf %Slffff 
jptff YfffffJHT ff-rn'r^rff , irtl wtt Jr fwr <tt ffi fffprrr ttvi % j'ffiftffHT 

Jr ffftjFf ^rr^TfffV *61 9Tff, (5Tff?ff ^ffT Nff fafflff tffRT ?TlffI^V 5 0 0 ff IR «ff ) 

nt; 

sr>T, nff; 3 ffifr fiard jf triffi^ ^ sfa Jf *nff«rfr % *mm: it sriffT % 

Tiff iff irnffrr'i ffft, RTTff fftinff % nr, tu«ik *ffr ffffiffff (nr vtr Tiffin: 

fff-fflff) iff RrffgRffrifwrm ONTO 3400fflft«’ 1 6 fffffLTT, 1968 3TTT ’Tiff 

fffffr RFffffflff, 1948 ( 1948 Iff 34) iff STO 7 4ff % fffTfTPP % Fffitl vfffTTff 




Sic. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 i 0 I 


5 c tuft yr w$r 

R JPnw qfT ?T WTt,; 

%frr, Wf: T"UfTF fTt qf SfRTTR ft ^FTT faTfT TftJj % fTRWm f<STt? 

soolf^f qf mrwrsfV »pt star 

t 

%rer:, w qtf'qrfl Lm jfmr irfafcqR, 1948 ( 1948 *t 34) qft am 73-* 
«kt itw vrfwrf «pt surVr m$r yj %rsft«r qr^nr tr?roxm tw wfa^n Jr *fft wur 
froftrftRT intfranr qFjfr $, surfa ; — 

TRT RfT^pHT »lfr R *»T ?T®TT 1 tfVr fT^T!T Tfafeqi *PT ^ftT <PT 

fw 'am^nr i 

[tfWT qjro 603 (4)/70-^Ho wrfo] 
CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 

S.O. 74. — In the notification of the Government of India, Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employ- 
ment) No. S.O. 2057, dated the 28th July, 1970, published at page 3586 of tho 
Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub Section (ii), dated the 8th August, 1970, 
In line 10 from bottom. 

for “P. D. Shanbhag” read “D. D. Shanbhag” 

[No. 2K8V00-PF-I,] 

fitfap-ft, 11 fatF-fT, 197 0 

VTo WTo 74. — RRfi % ffTfta 8 SF1TT, 1 9 7 0 'HPT 2, W"? 3, TT«W 

(ii) 35 86*fhr 35 87 qT5PPTf?TR RITT ITGPlt^ WT, *fk jqqfR Wm 

(SR tfiLT^r«TRf*PTrfi) "Pi WfT^-TT RBqT *PT Wo 2657 TrftST 28 SjHTf, 1970 *T 

Y* 35 87 tt: sttr qfm Jf — 

"<fto ^lo liwm’' % pgur it "tTo yfo #tq-pr” qf^ 

[tfOTT 21 (8 ) / 6 9 — c ft o trqio-i] 

New Delhi, the 16 th December 1970 

S.O. 75. — In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S.O. 2488, dated the 13th July, 1970, published in the Gazette of India, Part II, 
section 3, (sub-section (ii) at pages 3182 and 3183 in line 4 from bottom at page 
8182 for “16th September, 1969“, read “16th September, 1968”. 

[No. F.0(12)/68-HI.] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 
16ftfFqr, 197 0 

ftT° WT° 75. — RUtf % TTOW, qTfi 2, SfOS' 3, (ii) <J«3 3183 qT 

wrftifi rtoi (mu % «r*r, Tfanrn; wft jqqfa trcmur («ur sfrr fwir) qft 
STfST^THl T O qrromo 2488fird^r 13^HTf, 1970 JfqfarT 6 Jr " 1 6 fqfiTTT, 1969” 
% P^FT T* " 1 6 fRfUTT, 1968” ifftr | 


'Bio 6(12 )/68-T 5 T mf] 

5*rsfta fora, fifora i 




io 2 the GA?erm of india: January 2 , j97i/pausa 12, m2, [Part 11 -*. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1970 

SO 78. — Whereas toy the Notification of the Government of India In the 
Ministry of Labour, Employmeht and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 2283, dated the 22nd June, 1970, the Central Government, 
being satisfied that the public interest so Required, had declared the industry for 
the supply of milk under the Delhi Milk Scheme to be a public utility service fqr 
the purposes of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), for a period of six 
months from the 22nd June, 1970. 

And wpereas th.e Central Government is of opinion that public interest requires 
the extension of the said period; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub-clause 
(vi) of clause (n) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public utility service 
for the purposes of the said Act, for a further period of six months from the 22nd 
December. 1970. 

[No. 1/84/70-LR-L] 


(«Tm TpSFTlT fww) 

JTf 15 fap-STC 1070 

tpro mo 76. — tier %nfpi ^ tr? RRraTT gt hpY tt Pl 
chrfaifT <£0, wxd hpett % »^nr, lIwr srfa 'pht'et uttfpt (*pt lWitl favrni) 

ijY tlf tlTI'Td T (To ’FTo 22 83 ctnYtJ 2 2 3FT, 19 70 SILT S/fET ’NYR % Wtftd 

% far #r 5f?r tftertffaF faarrc 'frfsrffarR', 1947 ( 1947 ^ 14 ) % snftanff 

% f%C[ 22^T, 1970 ^T 6 PTTT *fY TTdLffa % fa 1 ? HhF ^TSYfiY ilLT ■efTfcfcf fa fit «4T ; 

sAl im: %^tr irw tr | fa nfa fpiiHTH <hrvrwfu lt ^rcr ^iri 

t 1 

5T5T, SjVaYPw faiTT STfafatTR, 1947 ( 1 947 TT 1 4 ) # HTTT 2 $ 

( ) %■ tjqTg'nY (iii) % 'TLrPd' gTH tTTFf HfadhY TT SThfa fffa t '■ si u IHSTl 5 3TTT 
^fcr^viiT ttt srfefaTR % srtfafaT % far 2 2fw*TL 1970 ft ^prr- 

stFet % far rffa wfafY (far fafar drfaY § 1 

[ifo l/84/70— QyToiTITo— I] 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1970 

g q, 77 Whereas, a vacancy has occurred in the office of the Presiding 

Officer "of the Labour Court at Hyderabad, constituted by notification No. S.O. 456, 
dated the 5th February, 1963 of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Labour and Employment, 

Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby appoints Shn Tara- 
chand Gupta as Presiding Officer of the Labour Court constituted as aforesaid. 

[F. No. 1/52/70-LH1J 


df faMY, 17 197 0 

qrloSno 7 7 — £pT: ?TPCd (KTI <, % *fd'^T ’Sfa STYtlYsFTTT faaiyiu Tfi 
HShTTTss JETTo 456:jfafa 5 TfaTd, 1 9 6 3 STTf rrffar ffafa WT fafal^fa % 

qfai^ffa <FT fa Ifafa $Y faT f ; 



Stc..n»(*0] OMSfeUfE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 103 


irT 1 : fSWPt *Tfwf%^R', 194 7 ( 1&47TT 14) -RW 

iTiffcnff tt srfTBr w %^=sYjr ?n:$r?: tr^snr.^ srrrr^r yd dft ur«rf?f w't % 

«ir v=*4 1 >m i h cr vr 'itstrIr srtsmrr faw a; i 


[#Wt«firo \l52j7p-^o%fJTo-l] 

fTR° crg-o RfElRRd, WdT Rfa*! I 

New Delhi, the 19th December 1670 

S.O. 78. — In pursuance of section 17 of the industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the em- 
ployers in relation to the Bank of Baroda and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 14th December, 1970. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL^ CALCUTTA 
Reference No. 42 of 1970 


Parties : 

Employers in relation to the Bank of Baroda. 

AND 

T'hplr wnrlompn 

Present . 

Mr. B. N. Banerjee, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances : 

On behalf of the Employers,— Mr. S. Sarkar, Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen. — Mr. A. D. Singh. 

State: West Bengal. Industry: Banking. 

AWARD 

By Order No. 23/29/70-LRIII, dated 3rd September 1970, the Government of India, 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Emp’oymcnt), referred the following industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bank cf Baroda and their workmen, to this Tribunal, for adjudication, 
namely : 

1 Whether the action of the Management of the Bank of Baroda. Calcutta-1, in 
transferring Shri C. R, Kundu, from the post of Cash-Pcon-Cum-Daftry 
at the College Street Branch to the post of a Peon at the India Ex- 
change Branch with effect from 25th November, 1969 and thereby 
depriving him of the special Daftry allowance was justified? If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled?” 


2. If the order of Reference be analysed properly, It appears that the workmen’s 
grievance was of two-fold nature. The grievance was directed, from anything apart, 
-against an order of transfer, in the first place, and, in the next place, the grievances 
as against a transfer Inflicting upon the concerned workmen the loss in the form of 
deprivation of special “daftry allowance”- 

3 The following facts arc not disputed The concerned workman, C. R. Kundu, 
•was appointed, in the subordinate grade of the Bank’s service, us a Cash Peon with 
effect from Mav 1, I960, in the Burra Bazar Branch of the Bank. Thereafter, he 
was transferred to Ihe Sealdah Branch and subsequently to the College Street 
Branch of th Bank, with effect from July 30, 1967. Since his transfer to the College 
Street branch, he was entrusted with the duty of a “daftry” in addition to his regu- 
lar work as a peon. 

4. Now the settlement arrived at between the Bank’s management and their 
Workmen on the 19th October, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the bipartite agreed 
ment), provides, in paragraph 5 3 of Part II, Chapter V (page 14), for payment 
special allowance to the members of the subordinate stall' for duties and res" 
ties as listed in Part II of Appendix B of the settlement. The sped- 



104 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/FAUSA IV 1W2 [Fact Ik— 


Payable to daftries, under the aforesaid paragraph, in class “A” banks (to which the 
employer Bank belongs), comes upto Rs. 15/- per month- 


5. In paragraphs 7 and 8 of the written statement filed by the employer bank it 
Is pleaded: 

“7- That the concerned employee made representations to the Bank for grant- 
ing him the ‘Special Allowance’ for Daftary’s work as specified in Bipar- 
tite Settlement of 1966- Following his individual representations, the 
Bank of Baroda Ltd., Calcutta Staff Association took up the matter on 
behalf of the concerned employee with the management and threatened 
that unless the said dispute for special allowance is settled, the Union 
will resort to other methods, for settlement of the dispute.*** 

8- That in order to avoid further dispute, the Bank conceded to the demands, 
of the Union in good faith and in cohsideration »f fair industrial rela- 
tions. Accordingly the Bank paid the entire amount of special allow- 
ance payable to the concerned employee under Bipartite Settlement of 
1966 and transferred him to India Exchange Office with effect from 27th 
November, 1969. The vacancy created by the said transfer at the 
Cohege Street Branch was replaced by one Sri Jhapsi Ram Bari from 
India Exchange Office who is entitled to Peon-Cwm-Daftry work on the 
basis of seniority of service in category of Peons in the group of 
subordinate staffs of Bank’s services. This transfer was effected in 
terms of the demand of the sponsoring Union for implementing city- 
wise seniority in the Bank’s service.” 

6. The transfer to the Indian Exchange branch caused to the workman depriva- 
tion of the daftry allowance of Rs. 15/- per month, because he was posted in the 
said branch merely as a Cash peon. This raised the present industrial dispute. It 
should be noted that the management categorically denied the charge of mala fides 
in effecting the transfer of the concerned workman from College Street branch to> 
the Indian Exchange branch. 


7. In the written statement filed on behalf of the workmen represented by 
Bank of Baroda Staff Union. It was stated in paragraph 3 as follows: 

“That the management evaded the claim of Sri C. R. Kundu for more than 
two years, but after a hard pressure from Sri Kundu, the manage- 
ment paid him a lumpsum amount of Rs. 969.15, the whole arrears of 
his claim for about 31 months, and victimised Shri Kundu by transfer- 
ring him from College Street: Branch of the Bank to India' Exchange 
Branch in order to forfeit his aforesaid special allowance. The trans- 
fer was made with effect from 25th of November 1969 and Shri 
Kundu’s status was lowered from Daftary to an ordinary peon.” 


It was further stated in paragraph 5 of the said written statement : 

“That without prejudice to our above contention, even if Sri Kundu was not 
a permanent incumbent for the said special allowance, and the 1 
management for the first time introduced a special allowance at their 
College Street Branch of the Bank, preference for re-allocating the 
duties ought to have been given to Shri Kundu by virtue of the orovi- 
sion ^contained in Clause 5.13 of the Settlement dated 10th October, 
1966. 


The transfer was condemned by the workmen as having the effect of lowering: 
the status of the concerned workman and forfeiting of the special allowance, in an 
improper and unjustified manner, with a view to victimise him. 


8. Paragraph 5-13 of the bipartite settlement, mentioned in paragraDh 5 of the- 
written statement of workmen, deals with re-allocation of duties and provides for 
the following things: 


“(a) Standardisation of nomenclature should not by itself lead to withdrawal 
of special allowance from persons already drawing them exceptin'*' 
where specifically provided in the sett’ement- * " 

(b) Subject to what is stated in (a) above, liberty to banks to re-allocate 
duties. 


(c) Where for the first time a special allowance is introduced in an office, in 
re-allocating the duties preference will be given from amongst these who' 
were already performing the appropriate duties. 


By way of explanation it is stated: 

“In cases where a workman is not in receipt of a special allowance on the 
date of settlement has been performing duties/responsibilities which- 




Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 ioj; 


will now attract the special allowance in terms of this settlement banks- 
will be free to withdraw such duties/ responsibilities* * alternatively 
such -workmen may be required to perform, if necessary, by re-alloca- 
tion the duties-responsibilitles which attract the special allowance and 
in that case the appropriate special allowance will be payable to him." - 

9. On behalf of the management, Sudani Kumar Das, an officer of the Bank gave 
evidence. He admitted that the concerned workman was at first appointed as a mere 
peon without any additional duties. Thereafter, at the College Street Branch he 
was entrusted with the additional duties to be performed by Cash-peon-cum-daflry. 
Although appointed as a daftry, the workman was not at first paid the special 
allowance for daftry and this is expressly admitted by the bank’s witness In the 
following language: 

“There was demy in arranging for special allowance to Kundu for a consi- 
derable time. Thereafter the cause of Kundu was espoused by a trade 
union of the name of Calcutta Staff Association, which demanded pay- 
ment of special allowance to Kundu. At last the special allowanca was- 
paid to Kundu In lump sum covering the period already worked by 
him’’ 


About the reason for transferring the concerned workman from College Street 
Branch to India Exchange Branch, this witness stated that the trade union known 
as the Staff Association was pursuing a two-fold demand at the same time, namely 
while insisting upon payment of special allowance to Kundu, the union was arso- 
insisting upon the demand that special allowance should be paid on the basis of 
city-wise seniority so far as daf tries were concerned. The Bank conceded to the 
demand of the union. The witness further explained that this concession was 
made not to please the Staff Association but to arrive at a more scientific basis tor- 
payment of special allowance. As a result of the basis of city-wise seniority for 
payment of special allowance to daftaries, Kundu was transferred from College- 
Street Branch and one Jhapsi Ham, who was senior to him, was fitted In his place. 

In answer to a question put in cross-examination this witness answered: 

“Ques: What was the Interest of service which required the management 
to transfer the concerned workman from College Street to Indiaix 
Exchange branch? 

Ans: This was done In order to post Jhapsi Ram who was senior tQ Kundu 
on city- wise seniority basis.’’ 

On behalf of the workmen, the concerned workman himself deposed. He did not 
dispute that Jhapsi Ram was senior to him. He specifically admitted that there 
was no enmity between himself and the management. He further admitted that 
there was nobody junior to him who was drawing daftry allowance, save and 
except one person at Sodepur branch, who was drawing daftry allowance temporari- 
ly. The concerned workman, however, did not want to be transferred to Sodepur 
branch, in order to be entitled to daftry allowance there. About the mala fides of 
the management this workman only said as follows: 

“I suspect that I was transferred because I became a member of the Staff 
Union. Apart from this I cannot suggest any other mala fides on the 
part of the management.” 

About the suggestion of the management that the workman got benefits of special 
allowance at the intervention of the Staff Association and only after he had rea- 
lised that the demand of the Staff Association for payment of daftry allowance to 
senior men was going to hurt him, he joined the Staff Union, a rival trade union, 
which had begun to agitate for retention of special allowance for the concerned 
workman, although the management had conceded to the more scientific demand 
for payment of daftry allowance to senior men only, this witness stated as follows: 

“I approached the Staff Union for the first time in the year 1969, may be In 
month of May Prior to that I had placed my grievance to the Staff 
Union in May 1969. Prior to that I was not a member of any other 
trade union. I do not know what talk the Staff Association had with 
the management apart from the matters contained In my two letters 
to them. I cannot say whether the Staff Association had arranged for 
payment of special allowance to myself ” 

This is the sum total of the oral evidence that I need bear In mind: 

10, Now, low ag regards transfer has been several times restated by the Supreme 
Court. In Canara Banking Corporation Limited vs. Vittal, (1963) II L.L.J. 354, the 
Supreme Court observed (Das Gupta, J speaking); 

"The management of the bank Is in the best position to judge how to distri- 
bute its man power and whether a particular transfer can be avoided 



.10 6 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA' JANUARY 2, 19U/PAUSA 12. 1892 [Tart II— 


or not- It is not possible tor industrial tribunals to- nave- before them 
All the materials which are relevant for this purpose -and even if these 
could be made available, the tribunals are by no moans suited for 
making decisions in matters of this nature. That is why it would 
ordinarily be proper for industrial adjudication to accept t as correct 
any submission by the management of the bank' that an impugned, 
transfer has been made only because it Was found unavoidable. The 
ohe exception to this statement Is where there is reason to believe that 
tttfe management of the bank resorted to the transfer mala fide, by 
way of victimisation, unfair labour practice or some other mterior 
motive, not connected with the business interests of the bank-’ 

Also, in the case of Slndicate Bank Limited, vs its workmen, (1960) I L.L.J., 440, the 
.Supreme Court observed (Ramaswami, J speaking); 

“There is no doubt that the banks are entitled to decide on a consideration 
of the necessities of banking business whether the transfer of an 
employee should be made to a particular branch. There is also no 
doubt that the management of the bank is in the best position to 
judge how to distribute the employees between the different branches; 
We should be very careful before they interfer with .the .orders made 
by the banks in discharge of their managerial function. It is true 
that if an order of transfer is made rnala fide or for some ulterior pur- 
pose, like punishing an employee for his trade union activities, the in- 
dustrial tribunals should inteifere and set aside such an order of trans- 
fer, because the mala fide exercise of power is not considered to be 
the legal exercise of the power given by law. But thp finding of mala 
fide should be reached by industrial tribunals only if there is suffi- 
cient and proper evidence in support of the finding. Such a finding 
should not be reached capriciously or on flimsy grounds as the Indus- 
trial tribunal has done in the present case. This view is borne out by 
the decision of this Court in Bareilly Electricity Supply Company, 
Ntd. v Sirajuddin and others (1060-1 L-L.J. 566)-” 

It may also be noted that in the Sastri Award it was provided that workmen must 
not be transferred beyond his language area. 

11. In this particular case, It appears, from the oral evidence hereinbefore set 
out, that the Staff Association was agitating for a demand that daftry allowance 
should only be oaid on the basis of city-wise seniority. It is admitted that Bank 
had conceded to the demand. In doing so, the management acted wisely, because 
to deprive senior man of special allowance and to allow such allowance to junior 
men may lead to “pick and choose” policy or nepotism. By conceding to this 
demand, the management conceded omy to a just demand. It further uppens f om 1 
Extr. 6 and 11 that there might have been labour dispute if the concerned workman 
had been retained at the College Street Branch with a special allowance. The 
management therefore, followed wise administrative wisdom in transferring the 
concerned workman to another branch and filling up the void by importing a 
senior man to College Street branch. In that view, there Is nothing m the charge 
that the transfer of the concerned workman had been mala fide effected or effected 
without justification. 


12 The next question for my consideration is although the transfer may have 
been justified, whether the deprivation of special allowance was also justified Now 
the definition of wages in Section 2(r) of the industrial Disputes Act includes 
“allowance (including dearness allowance) as the workman is for the time being 
entitled to”. It was contended that the special allowance was part cf the wages 
and the transfer was affecting the workmen prejudicially inasmuch as ft deprived 
the concerned workman of the part of his wages. This argument necessitates some 
examination of the nature of the special allowance payable to daftries- The open- 
ing words of paragraph 5 3 of the bipartite settlement are couched in the follow- 
ing language: 

“In supersession of paragraph 5.326 of the Desai award, the special allowance 
payable to members of the subordinate staff for duties/responsibilities 
as listed In Part II of Appendix B hereto shall be as follows " 


The special allowance 1$ thus basically a duty allowance- At the Indian Exchange 
branch there was another peon who was performing the duties of a daftry. The con- 
cerned workman was not performing these duties. If the allowance was basically a 
duty allowance and therefore part of his wages, the concerned workman could 
not.' claim the allowance without such duties- It was not his case that he had a 
right to perform the duties- The case was that he had light to the allowance, 
duties or no duties. This argument I cannot uphold- 



Sec, 3(i|)J- THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 19H/PAUSA 12 , 1892 107 


1 3. In the view that I take, I hold, that- the action of the management of Bank 
Of Baroda in transferring JSri C. R, Kundu from the post of Cash-peon.-c'iwi-daftry 
at College Street branch to the post of peon at the India Exchange branch with 
effect from 25th November, 1969 was justified. This transfer led to the withdrawal 
of duties of daftry from him, because there was somebody else who was perform- 
ing these duties, and- consequently withdrawal of special daftry allowance -from him- 
That act also was justified. The workman is, therefore, not entitled to any relief. 


This is my award. 


Dated, November 28 , 1970 . 


(Sd.) B- N, Banerjee, 

Presiding Officer. 

[No. 23/29/ 70/LRIII] 


New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 

S.O. 79. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (14 
of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes the following Award of the 
Central Government Labuor Court, Bombay in respect of a complaint under section 
33A of the said Act filed by Shri Aubrey DeSylva, Flight Purser, Air India. Bom- 
bay, which was received by the Central Government on 16th December, 1970, 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, BOMBAY 
Apeeication No. LCB-38 of 1965 


Parties : 

Shri Aubrey DeSylva, Complainant. 

Versus 

Air India, Opp. Party. 

Present : — 

Shri A. T. Zambre, Presiding Officer. 

Appearances . 

For the complainant.— Shri B. H. Buch, Advocate, with Shri N, C. Mukherjee, 
Chairman, Air Corporation Employees’ Union, Bombay. 

For the opposite party , — Shri S, D. Vwrmdalal, Counsel, with Shn S- K. 
Wadia. Solicitor, Shri A. S. Banavalikar, Personnel Manager and Shri 
P M. Thakur, Assistant Personnel Manager. 

■Sii.E Maharasrira. Inde.= iry- Air Service 


Bombay, the '20th November 1970 
AWARD 

This is a complaint by an employee of Ihe Air India Corporation dated 18th 
August, 1465 undei section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act which was originally 
filed before the National Industrial Tribunal presided over by Shri G. D. Khoslo 
beitnc whom the industrial dispute Ref. No N.I.T. No. 1 of 1964 was pending and 
which was subsequently transferred fo this Labour Court under section 33B of the 
Act and was numbered as LCB-Nn 38 of 1905- 

2. The complainant Shri A. DeSylva was in the employ of the Air India Cor- 
poration (hereinafter referred (o as the Corporation) since 1956 and was working 
as a member of the cabin crew. He was first appointed as an Assistant Flight 
Purser on 4th February, 1956 and after his confirmation was permanently posted 
in I ondon for about three years Thereafter he was reposted to Bombay and was 
Promoted to the post of Right purser and was confirmed on 1st April, 1961 in the 
grade of Rs. 350 — 25 — 550 — 50—650 and wa s working a s such in the same grade till 
his services were teiminaled by th Q Corporation by their letter dated 12/14th April, 
1965. The Corporation had not given in ihe letter the reasons for his termination 
and hence b,y his letter dated 21st June, 1965 the complainant requested the 
management to furnish him with the reasons but the Corporation did not Inform 
him the reasons in their reply letter dated 22nd July, 1965 but bad stated that he 
was aware of the reasons. They had also stated that they did not give the reasons 
because the reaons if disclosed would have been detrimental to his interests. 
Thereupon the workman again wrote to the Corporation by his letter dated 11th 
August, 1965 and filed this complaint. 



loS THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1SS2 rp A »r IT— 


3, The complainant has alleged that throughout his employment with the res- 
pondent he had performed hie duties diligently, faithfully and honestly and he had. 
a ciean record. Hig work was satisfactory and he had earned all annual 
Increments regularly. The last increment was given to hipn on 1st April, 
1966 that is only a few days before the termination of his services by their letter 
dated 12/ 14th April, 1966. The management terminated his seryice# with Imme- 
diate effect and he was asked to collect his salary in lieu of notice and other dues 
and this action smacked of vindictiveness and foul play on the part of the manage- 
ment- It is alleged that the order which purports to offer jalarly i n lieu of one 
month’s notice Is a colourable exercise of the powers and is a Clock and a cover 
/or Inflicting punishment and is mala fide and the same has been made with a view 
to circumventing the observance of the principles of natural justice. 

4. The complainant has further alleged that if he was a workman concerned 
in the Industrial dispute proceedings between the Corporation and its workmen 
which was pending beiore the National Industrial Tribunal in Ref. No. 1 of 1964 
and it was obligatory on the part of the Corporation to make an application for 
approval before the Tribunal under section 33 (2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
No such approval has been obtained nor has an application been made and the 
Corporation has contravened the provisions of section 33. Therefore the Corpora- 
tion should be directed to reinstate the complainant with the full back wages 
and allowances and an award should be made accordingly, 

5- The Corporation has by its written statement denied the allegations and has 
opposed the complaint application both on technical and other pleas. It has 
admitted that the services of the complainant were terminated by letter dated 
12th/14th April, 1965 with effect from 15th April, 1965 but it has contended that 
under regulation 48 of the Air India Employees Service Regulations the Corpora- 
tion has the power to terminate the services of a permanent employee by giving 
him 30 days notice In writing or pay in lieu of notice without assigning any reason 
and the services of the complainant were terminated under that provision as the 
Corporation had lost confidence in the complainant for good and sufficient reasons, 

6- The Corporation has denied the allegation that the termination of the services 
of the complainant was a clock and a cover for inflicting punishment mala fide 
and that the termination was made vdth a view to circumventing the observance 
of the principles of natural justice, it is contended that the termination of the 
scervices of the complaint being under regulation 48 was termination simplicity 
It was not by way of any punishment for misconduct and the principles of natural 
Justice applicable to cases of discharge or dismissal for misconduct have no appli- 
cation in the present case. Similarly the provisions of section 33(2)(b) which 
requires the filing of an application for approval in cases of discharge or dismissal 
for misconduct are not applicable to the termination of service of the applicant 
and there is no question of breach of the provisions of section 33 and there can 
be no Invocation of section 33A and the complaint should be dismissed. 

7. After the transfer of the complaint to this Court the complainant filed a 
rejoinder by which he has inter alia challenged the constitutionality of Regulation. 
48. The corporation had filed a reply containing that the regulations were 
binding as contracts and that the Court has no jurisdiction tq entertain such a plea 
about the vires of the regulation. Subsequently the complainant made an appli- 
cation for directing the management to give him particulars about the reasons for 
his termination. The Corporation opposed the same contending that unless the 
complainant discharged his initial burden for Invoking the provisions of section 
S3A this Court has no jurisdiction to enter into the dispute and the justifiability 
or otherwise of the order of termination of hl s services. The complainant's case 
was that an industrial dispute was pending before the National Industrial Tribunal 
The Corporation did not make any application for approval and it was clear that 
the Corporation had committed a breach of section 33 and after hearing and 
parties at length I had by my Order dated 13th March 1968 framed Issues and had 
given the necessary directions about particulars and onus of proof. The Corpora- 
tion was not satisfied about the order regarding particulars and had preferred a 
writ petition No. CA 1048 of 1968 In the High Court of Bombay, This application 
was decided by their Lordships of the Bombay High Court by their judgment dated 
3rd October, 1968. Though in substance the application was dismissed their Lord- 
ships had modified my order regarding the items of particulars and the Corpora- 
tion was directed to give particulars only regarding items (a) and (b). 

8. After the receipt of the judgment notices were Issued and the Corporation 
was directed by order dated 29th July. 1969 to give the particulars within a 
month which period was extended from time to time as the Corporation wanted 
to go in appeal to the Supreme Court. The Corporation’s application for leave 




Sec. 3(tt)'.J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2 , I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 109 


to appeal was rejected by the Bombay High Court- There alter they made a 
petition to the Supreme Court lor special leave to appeal which was also rejected. 
Thereafter the Corporation pursuant to the order regarding particulars submitted 
an affidavit of the Assistant Personnel Officer Shri P. V. Bhagwat giving the parti- 
culars. But the Corporation did not produce the documents nor copies leferred 
lo m the .said affidavit and wrongly stated that they have produced them. After 
some correspondence the Corporation gave inspection of all the confidential docu- 
ments to the complainant and his representative and also produced copies in Court 
invoking the provisions of section 21 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 

9. In support of his complaint tho complainant has examined himself and one 
Shrl Aubrey Pinto, The Corporation led the evidence of the Commercial Manager 
Shri Narendranath Dlwan who was formerly holding the post of Deputy Inspector of 
Police Rajasthan and had also worked as Deputy Director of Revenue Intelligence, 
Ministry oi Finance, (Government of India). The Corporation has also examined wit- 
ness Sukhtankar and both parties have produced number of documents. These issues 
arising for my determination in the complaint are as follows: — 

(1) Whether the complaint under section 33A is maintainable. 

(2) Whether the order of termination is a cloak for punishment inflicted 

mala fide? 

(3) Whether there is a contravention of section 33? 

(4) Whether the regulation 48 is binding on the parties as a contract? 

(5) Whether the Court has jurisdiction to try the contention that Service 

Regulation No. 48 is ultra vires of the Constitution? If yes, whether 

regulation 48 Is ultra vires the constitution as alleged? 

( 6 ) Whether the action of the employer Is justified? If not to what relief 

the applicant is entitled? 

10. The learned Counsel Shri Vimadalal has at the outset submitted that the 

present proceedings have been started by a complaint under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. It is not a reference under section 10 of the Act and 
unless the complainant discharges the initial burden providing contravention of 
section 33 this Court will have no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the complaint. 
Prior to my order dated 13th March, 1968 regarding onus of proof, particulars etc., 
it was contended by the applicant that he had discharged the initial burden re- 
garding contravention of section 33(2) (b) by the admitted facts about the pen- 
oency of the proceedings and the termination of his service without approval of 
the Tribunal. In my order I had held that the application contained merely the 
allegations and it was for the applicant to prove the contravention of section 

33 (2) (b) by the employers and as the applicant was seeking the assistance of this 

Court to prove the same I had ordered the Corporation to furnish him the parti- 
culars and the reasons for the termination of his service. In my order I had 

quoted the observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1958 1 LLJ 

page 793 (Equitable Coal Co. Ltd V. Algu Singh and others) In respect of breach 
of the provisions of section 33(2)(b) by the employers as a condition precedent for 
the exercise of the jurisdiction by the Court and in my opinion it is clear that 
It is for the applicant to establish his contention that the employer has committed 
a breach of section 33(2)(b), Contravention of section 33(2)(bi is the very founda- 
tion for the exercise of the power to adjudicate and only on such proof this Court 
will have jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the complaint meaning that the Court 
can thereafter treat the proceedings as a reference and investigate and find 
whether the termination of service was justified or not- The first three issue? 
are interlinked and findingg on them in favour of the complainant will invest this 
Court with the jurisdiction to investigate and adjudicate whether the termination 
was justified Or not and I shall first take up these three issues for my discussion. 

11. Learned Counsel for the applicant has argued that the right of the employers 
to terminate the services of the employee arbitrarily without reasons whenever 
they pleased a right which has been referred to In various cases as a right to 
'hire and fire’ —has been restricted and modified by the various decisions of tha 
Supreme Court. Learned Counsel has also invited my attention to the ruling in 
which It has been stated that 

“it is too late in the day for the employer to raise the claim to hire and 
fire an employee as the employer pleases and completely negative the 
security of service.” 

and the whole trend of the argument was as if the employer has no more any 
power to terminate the services of an employee by notice under the contract of 
service without complying with the provisions of section 33(2) Cb") of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and even In such cases there would be a contravention of section 



Ho THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1U92 [Part II— - 


33(2)(b) if no approval of the Tribunal 1? sought. It ig argued that the Corpora- 
tion has terminated the services of the applicant ottering him one month's salary 
without following the proper procedure and has committed a breach of section 
33 (2) (b). 

12. i do not think that the termination of the service of an employee by & 
notice under the terms of contract without holding any enquiry wer e will auto- 
matically bring the action of the management within the purview of section 33 
and can be presumed to be contravention of section 33(2)(b) of the act. An em- 
ployer may be Impelled to terminate the service of an employee and part company 
ny giving notice for various reasons and every such case will not be covered by 
Section 33 (2) fb). The relevant portion of section 33(2)(bl is as follows: — 

"During the pendency of any such proceeding in respect of an industrial 
dispute the employer may in accordance with the standing orders 
applicable to the workman concerned in such dispute or where 
there are no such standing orders according to the terms of contract 
whether express or implied between him and the workman, 

(a) * * * * * 

(b) for any misconduct not connected with the dispute discharge or punish 

whether by dismissal or otherwise that workman provided that no 
such workman shall be discharged or dismissed unless he has been 
paid wages for one month and an application has been made by the 
employer to the authority before which the proceeding is pending 
for approval of the action taken by the employer”. 

A close reading of this section will show that the approval of the authority is 
necessary only when the discharge dismissal or punishment is imposed as a 
result of some misconduct not connected with the dispute and in case the termi- 
nation of service is not by way of punishment for a misconduct the action of 
the management will be outside the scope of section 33 and there will be r.o 
necessity to seek the approval of the authority, 

13. Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the applicant, has relied upon the 
rulings reported in 1965 1 LLJ 422 (Murugan Mills Ltd., and Industrial Tribunal, 
Madras, and another) and 1965 1 LLJ 612 (Hindusthan Motors Ltd., and Mabendra 
Singh Dhantwnl others) and has argued that in these rulings also there were 
complaints under section 1 33A and the employers had taken a ~ similar contention 
that the provisions of section 33(2) (b) were not attracted to a case of discharge 
simplicitor. The Industrial Tribunal had allowed the complaint and directed 
reinstatement and) the writ petition against that award was dismissed. The 
learned Counsel has invited my attention to the oft quoted observations of their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in respect of the powers of Industrial Tribunals 
to interfere with the orders of the employers terminating the services of the 
employees by notice under the contract of service or standing orders. I have 
carefully gone through these rulings and I do not think that these rulings support 
the applicant's version that a complaint under section 33A would be maintain- 
able and the Court will be entitled to treat the complaint as If it were a reference 
unless the termiation of service is proved as a punishment for some misconduct. 

14. The learned Counsel has Laid stress on the observations in the rulings re- 
ported in 1965 1 LLJ page 422 (Murugan Mills Ltd., and Industrial Tribunal, 
Madras and others) where in it has been observed: — 

"The right of the employer to terminate the services of his workman under 
the standing orders by giving a notice or by paying him wages in 
lieu of such notice which amounts to claim to ‘hire and fire’ an em- 
ployee as the employer pleases and thus completely negative security 
of service which hRs been secured through industrial adiudication 
was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in 1951 II LLJ 
314 and the view tsiken therein has been approved by the decision 
of the Supreme Court in 1E60 II LLJ 222 and 1962 1 LLJ 374. Even 
in such a case the requirement of bona fldes is essential. If the 
termination of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a 
result of victimisation of unfair labour practice the industrial tribunal 
would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termina- 
tion.” 

These observations clearly show the powers of the Tribunal while dealing with 
on industrial dispute about the termination of an employee by notice. However, 
they clearly presuppose that the dispute had bpen referred to the Tribunal 
in a reference under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It is significant 
to remember that all the cases referred to in the above observations are in 
respect of awards passed In reference under section 10 of Industrial Disputes 



Sec, 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIAi JANUARY 2, W71/FAUSA 12, 1892 up 


Act and a Labour Court in which a complaint has been flted under section 33A 
Of tfya Industrial Disputes Act will have no jurisdiction to treat the complaint 
as a reference unless the condition precedent about the contravention of section 
33(2) (b) as stated in the ruling in 1958 1 LLJ 793 Equitable Coal Co. Ltd, V. and 
Algu Singh is satisfied. 

15. Even though in the above ruling the employee had filed a complaint under 
section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act it is clear from the judgment that 
their Lordships came to the conclusion that though the termination of service 
was under the standing orders by a notice in fact it was by way of punishment 
for misconduct. Their Lordships have observed: — 

‘"The form therefore used in the present case for terminating respondent’s 
services under clause 17(a) , is not conclusive and Tribunal was 
justified in enquiring into the reasons which led to such termina- 
tion; even the standing orders provide that an employee can ask 
for reasons in such a case. Those reasQns were given before the 
Tribunal by the appellant viz., the respondent services were termi- 
nated because he deliberately adopted go-slow and was negligent in 
the discharge of his duty. His services were therefore terminated 
for dereliction of duty and go-slow in his work. This clearly 
amounted to punishment for misconduct and therefore to pass an 
order under clause 17(a) of the standing orders in such circumstances 

was clearly a colourable exercise of the power to terminate the ser- 

vices of a workman under the provision of the standing orders." 

I have already observed that it was a case in which the employee was discharged 
under the standing orders and the observations clearly show that according to 
their Lord=hios even in such a case the requirements of band fldes were essen- 
tial presumably for the justification of the termination of service. 

16. The judgment in the other ruling 1965 1 LLJ 612 (Hindustan Motors Ltd,, 

and Mahendra Singh Dhantwal and Others) also will show that his Lordship 
considered the circumstances showing the mala fldes of the employers and had 
found that the reasons for the termination of service must have been the old 
reason for dismissal and only the procedure adopted was a new procedure to 
achieve the old objective and thus In effect the termination of service was for a 

previous misconduct. On the contrary in the head note In this ruling it has been, 

observed: — 

“Dismissing the writ petition preferred by the employer against such award, 
held; 

It might be correct that discharge simpliclter In terms ol service contract 
and unconnected with any intention to penalize would not fall within, 
the mischief of section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
and that no approval under the provision there to would be necessary 
in the case of such termination,” 

and thus it Is clear that lor a contravention of section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act the termination of service must be by way of punishment for mis- 
conduct. 

17. Shri VImadalal the learned Counsel on behalf of the Corporation has relied 
upon the ruling reported in 1964 1 LLJ page 624 (National Machinery Manufacture 
Co.,) and Vyas (P.D.) 1969 II LLJ 799 (Tata Engineering Loco Co.,) and has 
argued that when a complaint has been filed before a Court under section 33A 
the Court may investigate the matter and go behind the order. But unless it 
Is proved that the termination of service is by way of punishment for misconduct 
the complaint cannot be treated as a reference and the Court will have no juris- 
diction to adjudicate the dispute. The learned Counsel has Invited my attention 
to the following observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1969 

II LLJ 799 (Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd., and Prasad S.C. and 
another) : — 

“In the case of workman Ram Manohar Dubey accepting the contention on 
behalf of the management that the tribunal was not In the instant 
case entitled to come to the conclusion that the company’s order was 
either mala fide or was passed to victimize the workmen or Was In 
substance an order of dismissal held that under standing order 47 of. 
the company It had. power to terminate the services of Dubey on 
giving him a month’s notice and wages In lieu of such notice. It is 
correct that such an order of discharge simpliciter is not conclusive 



A 12 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Pa*t H— 


and determine whether the termination is in tact discharge eimpUciter 
or dismissal though the order is one of simple termination of service. 
If it is satisfied that the order is punitive or mala fide or is made to 
victimize the workman or amounts to unfair labour practice, it is 
competent to set it aside. The test Is whether the act of the emp- 
loyer is bona fide or not.” 


From these observations also it is clear that it is only when the discharge stmpli- 
citer gives rise to an industrial dispute the Tribunal adjudicating the dispute has 
got the powers stated herein. In view of the decisions of their Lordships in the 
rulings in Equitable Coal Co. Ltd., etc., it cannot be disputed that unless the 
■complainant proves the contravention of section 33(2) (b) by the employer the 
complaint cannot be adjudicated by the Court. From the provisions of section 
33A it Is clear that the discharged employee who is aggrieved by* such contraven- 
tion has to make a complaint in writing and it is only on receipt of such a comp- 
laint the Labour Court shall act upon the complaint as if it were a dispute 
referred to it under section 10. 

18. This point has been specifically made clear by their Lordships of the 
Bombay High Court in the ruling reported In 1 964 1 LLJ 624 in which their 
Lordships considered the wording and construction of the section in details 
grammatically and have observed: — 

‘‘Grammatically it would seem clear that the clause "for any misconduct” 
qualified the verb discharge, dismiss or punish used in the said sub- 
clause. The words “such workman” in the proviso refers to such 
workman as is referred to in clause (b) i.e., one who has been dis- 
charged or is being punished for misconduct. 


In the judgment it has been further observed:— 

"In our view, with respect, section 33(2) (b) can have no application to a 
case of discharge unless it is for misconduct.” 

Considering these observations it shall have to be held that in the present case 
the complainant shall have first to prove that In terminating his ^Ices the 
Corporation has in fact discharged him for misconduct under the garb of discharge 
.siinpliciter and has contravened the provisions of section 33(2) (b) and hence the 
complaint is maintainable. 

19 It Is not in dispute that the applicant was in service with the Corporation 
since 1956 and his services were terminated by the Corporation by a letter dated 
1 9 / 14 . 4,1965 with effect from 15-4-1985. They had not chargesheeted him nor 
held an enquiry. The letter terminating his services reads as follows.— 

"Dear Sir, ... 

It has been decided to terminate your services which we hereby do with 
immediate effect. You will be paid one month’s salary in lieu of 

notice. . 

your account. (f 

Your account will be settled after checking your commitments. 

"The Corporation ha, contended that the «* #».« ™S£”S 1 W “ 

Staf ‘ “e > 0 j£ g ' ts 7 LYoSTtoVS ,S 

C SSJSEK Xpl” tertniLtel'hb service and prlmatcte It is termination 
fiimpliclter. 


20. However It has been bald “ SS tUtam Uffitt 

(1 LLJ) 422 that the words used m the “°er of discnarge^ Trlbunal 

may have taken are not conclusi i , j orm the reasons which 

■would be entitled to go behind t e , • j whether the discharge is a discharge 

led to the order and then consider and decide whether^ne cm cn^ terminat 

Slmpllciter or not. If it appears that t P P° reSU n of a misconduct alleged 
ing the services of appearance to the contrary the order of 

» - punishment for soma dtseondue. under a aarb 

.of discharge simpliclter. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 1 13 


21. Alter the dismissal of the writ petition filed by the Corporation in the 
Bombay High Court and the receipt of the papers I had directed the Corporation 
to furnish the applicant particulars about the reasons for the termination of 
service and in compliance the Corporation has filed an affidavit of the Assistant 
Personnel Officer and produced the correspondence requesting the Tribunal to 
treat the correspondence as confidential. From the particulars and correspondence 
it appears that the service of the complainant were terminated by the Corporation 
under the following circumstances: — 

In or about February/March 1965 the Corporation received a communica- 
tion from the Director of Revenue Intelligence, Government of India 
viz., the letter dated 27th February 1965 addressed by Shrl N. N. 
Dewan, Deputy Director, himself to Mr. G. B. Patwa, Chief Security 
Officer enclosing a note on the smuggling activities of the complainant 
and stating that such persons were a security risk from all points of 
view and that he hoped it would be possible for the Corporation to 
weed out such undesirable persons who are bound to bring a slur 
on the good name of the organisation. This correspondence naturally 
led to the corporation losing confidence in the complainant and they 
had no option but to terminate the services of the complainant. 

The Corporation had examined their Commercial Manager Shri Dewan and their 
Administrative Manager Shri Sukhtankar and have also proved the correspondence. 
Though at first It was requested to treat the documents as confidential at the 
time of arguments Shri Vimndalal learned Counsel on behalf of the Corporation 
submitted that he had received the necessary authority to state that the documents 
may be referred to In the Judgment. 

22. The most Important letter In the correspondence is exhibit E i and the 
Information note about the smmuggling activities attached to It. In this letter 
which is dated 27th February 1963 Shri Dewan has stated:— 

“I enclose for your information a note on the smuggling activities of Aubrey 
D’Sllva, a purser of Air India. 

Needless to say that such persons are a security risk from all points of 
view. I hope it will be possible for Air India to weed out such 
undesirable persons who are bound to bring a slur on the good name 
of the organization.” 

The note attached to this letter mentions the smuggling activities and some instan- 
ces in which the applicant was involved. In paras 2 to 5 of this note it has been 
stated: — 

2. There was reliable information with us that this Aubrey D’Silva was 
smuggling into India large quantities of diamonds and gold from 
Beirut whenever he used to go over there as a flying crew. 

8 . Information was also on hand that he was smuggling out to Beirut the 
sale proceeds of the smuggling goods when he used to go there on 
duty as a flying crew. 

4. On a specific Information this Aubrev D’Sllva was bringing 5 Kilos of 
gold on 23rd December 1982 from Beirut a watch was kept at Santa 
Cruz Airport. The flight by which he was coming as an Assistant 
Flight Purser was delayed and arrived on 24th December 1962 and 
there was another batch of crew on board this flight. Before he could 
be searched he managed to throw the contraband viz.. 5 kilogrammes 
of gold valued over Rs, 50,000 below a sofa in the Customs Exami- 
nation Hall from where it was recovered latter. 

5 There is also reliable information on hand that even after this incident 
of 24th December 1962 Aubrey D’Silva was in close contact with the 
Beirut Syndicate of smugglers and had in fact introduced to them 
another Assistant Flight Purser.” 

Shri Dewan who has written the letter and the note had been examined by the 
Corporation, He had proved these documents and his evidence show that the 
information is from the most confidential documents of the revenue intelligence. 
About the files and the note Shri Dewan has stated that the note contained as 
much of information as could be passed on to Air India confidentially and that 
the original reports contained much more than had been passed on to Air India 
confidentially. 


23, Shri Dlwan has stated that as Deputy Director of Revenue^ Intelligence he 
visited Bombay quite often and sometimes Shri Patwa the Chief Security Officer 



1 14 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II— 


of Air India had also met him In Delhi and during one of their meetings Shrl 
Patwa had mentioned to him about the case of the recovery of Indian hemp from 
Air-India aircraft and in that talk about the hemp case the name of Shrl DeSylva 
had come up and at that time he told Shrl Patwa that Shrl DeSylva had come to 
the adverse notice of the Revenue Intelligence on a number of occasions and 
Shri Patwa had requested him to send him a note about Shrl DeSylva and as a 
result Shri Dewan had sent the note, There is no question of Shri Dewan stating 
anything falsely against Shri DeSylva and it shall have to be held that according 
to the Revenue Intelligence record the complainant Shri DeSylva engaged himself 
In smuggling activities while acting as a purser as member of the crew and when 
Shri Patwa heard from Shri Dewan about such activities and character of the 
member of the crew It was quite proper on the part of the Patwa as a Security 
Officer to request Shri Dlwan to send the information, 

24. From the correspondence produced it is further clear that after the receipt 
of the confidential and secret information from the Revenue Intelligence Shri 
Patwa the Chief Security Officer of the Corporation wrote a letter on 2nd March 
1905 to the General Manager citing additional instances in which the applicant 
Shrl DeSylva was noticed adversely in smuggling activities. The Security Officer 
also enclosed the letter and the note from the Deputy Director, Revenue Intelli- 
gence Ministry of Finance, the Security Officer also sent copies to the Commercial 
Manager, Administration. After receipt of the letter the General Manager invited 
comments from the concerned higher officers such as Commercial Manager, 
Administration, the Personnel Commercial Director etc., and then consulted them, 

25. The Corporation has produced the reply from the Commercial Manager at 
exhibit E-3 which shows why the Corporation was induced to part company with 
the complainant. The letter reads:— 

“I refer to Patwa’s letter No. SO/11-1/9802 of March 2 to you on the above 
subject, 

Mr. D’Silva is a bad character, and it is essential In the interests of the 
Corporation that we should part company with him. I am very 
anxious that we should dispense with his services with as little delay 
as possible. 

If we have to secure the permission 'of the Chairman of the National Indus- 
trial Tribunal we should be grateful If Head Office could kindly take 
necessary action without delay,” 

The Genera] Manager accepted the opinion expressed and sought advice from the 
head office, how to terminate the services of the complainant. His endorsement 

reads: — 

"H O. (Head Office) please advise how to do this.” 

Shri Sukhtankar, Manager, Administration who has been examined by the Cor- 
poration thereupon consulted Shri S. S. Khambatta who was the senior partner of 
Messrs. Mulla and Mulla Solicitors of the Corporation. He has stated that he 
showed the correspondence to Shri Khambatta and asked him his advice as to the 
procedure to be followed regarding termination of service of Shri De Sylva and 
after discussion wrote a note to the General Manager. 

26. This note exhibit E-4 shows that the solicitor advised the Corporation that 
It would be In order to terminate the services of Shri De Sylva under Regulation 
48 of the Service Regulations without assigning any reason and after giving him 
30 days notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof. It further shows that Messrs. 
Mulla and Mulla stated that this would not attract the provision of section 33(2) (b) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act and that no reference need be made to the National 
Industrial Tribunal if the services are terminated under Regulation 48, and thus 
after consulting the solicitors the General Manager took further steps and the 
services of the applicant were terminated by the letter dated 12th/ 14th April, 
1965 and from the evidence it will be clear that the services of the complainant 
are terminated not for any misconduct by way of punishment but It was purely 
for safeguarding the interest of the Corporation, The secret information received 
from the Revenue Intelligence showed that Shrl De Sylva was Involved In smuggl- 
ing activities. The additional instances of his being adversely noted by the Cor- 
poration's security staff also supported that information and under the circum- 
stances it is quite but natural for the Corporation to lose confidence in such am 
employee. 

27. Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the applicant has further argued that 
service regulation No, 42 of the Air-India Employees Service Regulations which 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 1 15 


defines misconduct by the employees iuoudes at item No. 24 smuggling as a mis* 
conduct. Admittedly the complainant has been discharged by the Corporation be- 
cause ol the alleged smuggling activities and the termination ol his services on 
that account is by way of punishment for misconduct. The workman has been 
deprived of his livelihood by the order ol termination he should have been charge- 
sheeted and should have been given an opportunity to meet the case and should 
nave been dismissed Ir lie was found guilty after the enquiry. The learned Coun- 
sel has relied upon ine ruling reported in Ar 1066 SR 282 (DL. Board Calcutta 
v. Jailar Imam) in which case the lespondents dock woiirers were lemoved irom 
service ine Board. In this ruling their Cordshlp s have held: — 

“Held that the services of the respondents could not have been terminated 
without holding a proper enquiry. The circumstance that they hap- 
pened to be detained was no justification for not complying with the 
relevant statutory provision and not to following the principles of 
natural justice. If the rule of law has to prevail any attempt to 
short-circuit the procedure based on considerations of natural justice 
should be discouraged. Considerations of expediency which are not 
permitted by law can have no relevance whatever when dealing with 
the question of the liberty and livelihood of a citizen. The appellant 
Board in terminating the employment of its employees was exercising 
authority and power of a quasi-judieiaj character. Where a statutory 
body or authority Is empowered to terminate the employment of 
its employees it cannot exercise its powers in disregard to the princi- 
ples of natural justice. The tests laid down by Lord Reid in 1904 
A.C. 40 are relevant In ascertaining the nature of such proceedings 
with a view to decide whether the principles of natural justice ought 
to be followed or not and the authority or body conducting the en- 
quiry shall have to consider those tests. When the appellant desired 
to take disciplinary action against the respondent workers on the 
ground that they being guilty of misconduct it was absolutely essen- 
tial for the appellant Board to have held a proper enquiry whereat 
reasonable opportunity should have been given to the respondents to 
show cause before reaching its conclusion. At the enquiry the appel- 
lant was bound to lead evidence against the respondents and give 
them reasonable chance to test the said evidence; allow them liberty 
to lead evidence in defence and then come to a decision of its own. 
Not only the requirements of natural Justice prescribed such an en- 
quiry but an obligation to hold such an enquiry was also Imposed 
on the appellant by clause (36) (3) of the scheme of 1951 and Clause 
45(6) of the Scheme of 1956.” 

These observations will show that the employers had not followed the principles 
of neutral justice In this domestic enquiry proceedings. The workman In that 
case were not removed from service by a notice under the standing orders and 
this case will not be applicable to the facts of the present case In which the com- 
plainant was discharged by a notice under Regulation No. 43 and there is no 
question of principles of natural justice. 

28. It Is clear from the record that the Corporation thought of parting company 
With the complainant because of the information about his smuggling activities 
which showed his character. He was not charged for any specific act of smuggling 
and his services were terminated because he had been adversely noticed several 
times by the Revenue Intelligence in smuggling activities. The Corporation believ- 
ed the Information that he was a bad character and the complainant’s application 
that, he has been punished for misconduct under the garb of termination simpli- 
eitor cannot be accepted, and as it has not been proved that the services of the 
complainant are terminated by way of punishment there is no contravention of 
section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The foundation for the adjudica- 
tion of the Industrial Dispute by a Labour Court under section 33A of the Act has 
not been laid down. The complainant has not discharged the initial burden and 
It shall have lo be held that the present complaint is not maintainable. The 
order of termination of his services is not a clock for punishment and as there 19 
no contravention of section 33(2) (b) of the Industrial Disputes Act the complaint 
is not maintainable. 

29. The learned Counsel for the complainant has further argued that the Cor- 
poration did not hold an enquiry They also did not verify the information nor 
did they give any opportunity to the complainant to meet the allegations. He was 
singled out for punishment and the order of termination slmpllciter was mala 
fide and a cover for inflicting punishment. The Corporation has contended that 



1 16 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


the complainant has only made vague allegations about 
etc., and there is also no material to prove the same. 


mala tides vindictiveness 


Shr / VimadaM the learned Counsel Xor the Corporation has invited mv 
attention to the ruling reported in 1985 I LLJ 483 and 1963 1 LLJ 429 In the 

> r TJ ted £ V* 5 J LLJ (Associated Cement Cos. LtcL and Sharma 
(P. N ) and another) it has been observed;—— 

"If respondent No . 1 had proved that the impugned order amounts to his 
punishment that no doubt would have been a legitimate plea on which 
the competence of the appeal to respondent No. 2 could have been 
sustained: but beyond making a vague allegation that the Impugned 
order, had been passed not bona fide but fgr ulterior purpose no at- 
tempt has beep made to suggest much less to prove that the appellant 
was actuated by any Improper motive In terminating his services. 


In the ruling reported In 1963 II LLJ (Ananda Bazar Patrika (Private) Ltd and 
their employees) it hag been observed: — 

“Though industrial adjudication can and must protect industrial employees 
from victimization a finding as to mala fldes of victimization should 
be drawn only where the evidence has been led to justify it such a 
finding should not be made either in a casual manner or light 
heartedly". 


31. Considering the pleadings and the above observations it shall have to be 
held that the complaint has merely made vague allegation about mala fldes, vic- 
timization etc. He has not also led any evidence in that report. However, In 
view of my finding that there Is no contravention of section 33(2) (b) the question 
of mala fldes and victimization in my opinion is not relevant for the decision of 
this case. The employer may terminate the services of his employee under the 
garb ol terminate slmpliciter for various reasons such as for the Commission of 
misconduct or as victimization for union activities or even arbitrarily without 
any reason and the termination may be also wrongful. However. I do not think that 
in each such case the employee can resort to the short cut under the provisions 
of section 33A, It is only an employee who has been discharged or dismiss- 
ed for misconduct in contravention of the provisions of section 33(2) (b) whose 
complaint will be Investigated by the Labour Court and treat the same as a 
reference of the industrial dispute. Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
Is not open to the employee whose services have been terminated for other reasons 
and for such employees the only way is to raise am industrial dispute and get the 
same referred to a Tribunal under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, and 
the Tribunal whose powers and scope of jurisdiction Is wider enough even to alter 
the terms of contracts of employment even against the wishes of the employer 
will have Jurisdiction to enquire into the mala fldes and set a*side the order of 
termination. 


32. But even tf It is held that such an application can be considered by the 
Labour Court under section 33A I do not And any evidence in this case to show 
the mala fldes nn the part of the. management in terminating the service of the 
complainant. On the contrary the evidence of the complainant himself shows that 
the management was giving Mm very good treatment and was well disposed to- 
wards him. In his cross-examination he has stated: — 

“Till the termination letter was sent to me the Corporation treated me 
well and except this question of termination I have no grievance 
against the Corporation 

The letter as such does not place, any stigma on my character. It is correct 
to sav that the Corporation wa s very reluctant to give me the reasons 
of termination. The rc«^as now given by the Corporation are detri- 
mental to my character.” 

not be maintainable. 

33. In view of mv finding on issues Nos. 12^ and ^MJact lt^ not^ne^ess^ vM 

Snatton^f Service 3 ^^However^considering the way in which these proceedings 



Stc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 ny 


have been contested and their longstanding nature 1 think it proper to record my 
bindings on the othet issues m brief and I shall discuss them. 

34. The Air-Jndia Employes, Service Regulations prescribe and define the 
conditions oi service of the employees of the Corporation. Chapter VII relates 
to conduct and discipline in which regulation 42 defines misconduct and 43 
provides for punishments and an employee an be removed from service for any 
misconduct while section 48 prescribes the method of termination the services of 
an employee without assigning reasons and it is by giving notice. The complain- 
ant has contended that regulation 48 which empowers the Corporation to terminate 
the services of a permanent employee by notice is ultra vires the Constitution 
and is void. The Corporation has denied these allegations and have contended 
that regulation 48 Is binding on the parties as contract and has further contended 
that the Labour Court has no jurisdiction to entertain such a plea und hence 
issues Nos. 4 and 5 were framed. 

35. This Labour Court has been appointed under section 7 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for adjudicating industrial disputes and pass awards. An award is 
an interim or final determination of an industrial dispute and the Court has got 
powers to consider issues incidental to the adjudication of dispute and in the 
adjudication the Court shall decide both questions of fact and law and the ques- 
tion about the vires of regulation 48 being a question of law can be decided by 
the Court. 

36. This question about the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to decide the constitu- 
tionality of any law had been raised before the National Industrial Tribunal 
presided over by Justice Shri K. T, Desai in the Bank disputes in Ref. No, 1 of 
1960 and the learned Tribunal has observed: — 

In the present case the validity of the appointment of the National 
Tribunal is not disputed. No provisions of the Industrial Disputes 
Act. 1947, under which this Tribunal is constituted are in any way 
challenged. What is challenged is the right of this Tribunal consti- 
tuted under this Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to decide whether a 
provision of the Banking Companies Act, 1949, violates any funda- 
mental right guaranteed under the Constitution. Under the Indus- 
trial Disputes Act authority has been conferred upon me to determine 
questions relating to production of documents. The determination 
of the question whether th e provisions of section 34A of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949, are valid or not, is incidental to the effective 
exercise by me of my undisputed jurisdiction to decide whether I 
should order discovery of particular documents in this case or not. 
In my view there is no merit in the contention that I have no juris- 
diction to decide whether the provisions contained in section 34A 
are void on the ground that they offend the fundamental rights 
guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution." 

The provisions appointing the Labour Court amd the National Tribunal are similar 
and in view of the above observations of the learned Tribunal I think the Labour 
Court has got jurisdiction to decide the question about the constitutionality of 
regulation 48- 

37. I have already observed that the Air-India Service Regulations prescribe 
and define the conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation. The 
Corporattion has contended that these regulations are binding on the parties 
as contracts and there i s no question of the regulation being ultra vires of the 
constitution. It has been further contended that the regulation is valid, fair and 
non-dlscriminatory and is not in violation of the articles of the Constitution. 
The Corporation has produced a copy of the Air-India Employees Service Regula- 
tions and from the #rst range itself it will be seen that these regulations have 
been framed taking into consideration the awards of the Tribunal and agree- 
ments with the unions and associations. In pjaragraph 2 it has been stated: 

“Further modifications to the Service Regulations have become necessary 
as a result of the Award of the National Industrial Tribunal as also 
the agreements entered Into with the unions and associations. ' 

From this it will be clear that though they have been styled as regulations fram- 
ed by the Corporation they form part of the agreements between the Corporation 

find Its PTrmlnvp^ 



H8 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


A 8 ' A } the time of the appointment of its employees the Corporation takes in 
} ltme thorn tne employee his acceptance ot the terms, conaitions and has produc- 
ed a copy Of the appointment order form which has been signed by the applicant 
himself m this document Paragraph 10 of these form states : — 

“Your services will be subject to our service rules and you will, be entitled 
to travelling allowance, leave etc., as provided for in the said rules.” 


Below the letter of appointment there is an acceptance form which states; — 

“I accept the terms of employment of your letter the original cf which 

is in my possession.” 


To Tfl ^ en signed by , th ,f complainant Shri De Sylva and it shall have 

to be held that the service regulations are binding as contracts between the parties 
and there is no question of its being ultra vires of the constitution. 


39. Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the complainant has argued that these 
regulations have been framed in exercise of the powers conferred by section 45(2) 
o£ the Air Corporation Act, 1953. The Corporation also had secured, the approval 
of the Central Government and it is law. Regulation 48 confers upon the adminis- 
tration unrestricted power to terminate the services of the workmen and denied 
the employees equal protecuon of law and is ultra vires of Article 14 of the 
Constitution. However, It cannot be disputed that these regulations hav e been 
framed not by Government but by the Corporation which is constituted under the 
Air Corporatton Act just like a company is constituted under the Indian Companies 
Act and the rules or standing orders framed by the Corporation or the company 
would be part of the agreements between them and their employees and not law. 
It Is significant to remember that even in the schedule to the Standing Orders Act, 
1946, provision has been made for termination of the employment of a workman 
by notice and such rules or regulations in Industrial concerns are proper and 
necessary. There are various considerations before the Industrial management 
and as regulation 48 is a part of the contract the contention that it is ultra vires 
of the Constitution cannot be accepted. 

40- I have already observed that as the complainant has not proved that his 
services have been terminated by way of punishment for misconduct there Is no 
Jurisdiction to adjudication the dispute and there is no question of justification 
of the action by the management. However, even If that question is examined 
one shall have to come to the conclusion that the management was justified In 
parting company with the complainant. The management had received informa- 
tion from the Director, Revenue Intelligence, Finance Ministry which was received 
in the confidential files of secret intelligence and there was no question of disbeliev- 
ing it. The Corporation has examined Shri Diwan EW-1 who has stated that the 
information contained in paras 2. 3 and 4 of the note was based on reliable intel- 
ligence and was from most reliable sources and they had no reason to doubt its 
veracity. It was from the secret files of the Revenue Intelligence. Shri Dewan 
was formerly working as Deputy Inspector General of Police, Ant) -Corruption, 
Rajasthan- Thereafter he was deputed to the Ministry of Finance, Government 
of India in 1956 where he worked till 1965 and in that Ministry he was Deputy 
Director of Revenue Intelligence, He was again sent back as Deputy Inspector 
General of Police, Rajasthan and his services have now been lent to Air-India 
and be la working in Air-India as Commercial Manager, Customer Service on 
deputation. 

41. The information having come from such a high and independent source 
the Corporation has no reason to disbelieve it and there is nothing improper to 
act upon it- It cannot be ingored that the Corporation i s carrying on business 
In the face of international competition and its very existence depends upon the 
maintenance of the good reputation and the confidential of the international public 
and of the Government of the territories and countries in which it operates. There 
is much substance in the contention that it would not have been possible for the 
Corporation to continue Its business profitably and successfully If It had to retain 
In Its service an employee having such a record. The Corporation after getting 
the Information has consulted the ofllcers and the hierarchy. They also tcok the 
advice of the solicitors and thereafter acting upon the same terminated his service 
by the letter without assigning any reason and these facts would prove the bona 
fides on the part of the Corporation and the action of the Corporation in terminat- 
ing the services of the complainant by notice under Regulation 49 is justified and 
the complainant ia not entitled to any relief. Hence my award accordingly. 



Sue, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 up 


Award to be submitted to Government as required under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 


(Sd.) A. T, Zambre, 

Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Labour Court, Bombay. 


[No. 1/102/70/LRIII.] 
S. S, SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 

S.O. 80.— In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award, of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, in the matter of 
an application under Section 33A of the said Act from Shrl Ajit Prasad Mflju, 
Semi-Clerk, Monidih Prolect of National Coal Development Corporation, District 
Dhanbad and three others (Semi-clerks) which was received by the Central Gov- 
ernment on the 8th December, 1970. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 2) 

AT DHANBAD 


Present : 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Complaint No. 35 of 1970 

In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act 1947. 

(Arising out of Reference No. 244 of 1987 referred to by the Ministry by its order 
No. 1/22/67-LRII dated 19th July. 1967). 


Parties " 

1. Ajit Prasad Majee, Semi-clerk, NCDC Ltd., Monidih Project, District 

Dhanbad. 

2. S. B. Sinha, Semi-clerk, NCDC Ltd., Monidih Project, District Dhanbad. 

Dhanbad. 

3. Amalendcr Sarkar, Semi Circle, NCDC Ltd., Monidih Project, District 

Dhanbad. . . 

4. D. N. Mukherjee, Semi-clerk, NCDC Ltd , Monidih Project, District Chan- 

bad. 

Vs. 

1 The employers in relation to the National Coal Development Corpora- 
tlon Ltd., having its registered office at Darbhanga House, Ranchi 
through the Chairman/ Managing Director. 

2. Shri R. Sinha, Director (Administration), NCDC, Ltd., 

Ranchi. ' 


Appearances comv i a lnants. Shri R. K. Naug, Assistant General Secre- 

tarv National Coal Organisation Employees Association. 

On behalf of the Oppoi.it Parti cs.-(l) Shri L. Singh Labour Officer, (2) Shri 
° r S Murti, Additional Chief Personnel Officer. 


State: Bihar, 


Industry: Coal. 


Dhanbad, the 28th November 1970 
AWARD 


hv Shri R K Naug, Assistant General Sec- 

The /r^rggm^afiorf 'Emplovees Association and the opposite par- 

retary, National Coal O r *anlsati__ i R g Murti) Additional Chief Per- 

ties by Shn L. ® ine ^V 1 T, f b ^ the lfi CO mplainants an application is submitted to per- 

mtttbemTo 1 - ' JtotoS? the complaint petition, This Tribunal is not concerned 



120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


with the reasons mentioned In paras 2 to 4 of the application. The permission 
Is granted to withdraw the complaint petition. The effect of the withdrawal of the 
complaint petition will be that the complaint petition was not filed at all. The 
award is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act, 1947. 


(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao, 

Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad. 

[No. 1/22/ 67-LRI1 (i).] 


S.O. 81. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following-award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, In the matter of an 
application under Section 33A of the said Act from Shri Mohmmad Farque, Peon, 
National Coal Development Corporation Limited, Ranchi and 20 others which was 
received by the Central Government on the 8th December, 1970. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO 2) 

DHANBAD 


Present : 

Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer. 

Complaint No. 31 op 1970 

In the matter of a complaint under Section 3SA of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 


(Arising out of Reference No- 214 of 1967 refeired to by the Ministry by its order 
No. 1/22/87-LRII dated 19th July, 1967) 


Parties : 

1. Md. Faruque, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

2. S. Prasad, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi 

3- Michael Horo, Chairman, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi, 

4. Ganesh Singh, Chairman, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

5- Sadananda Biswas, Chairman, NCDC Ltd,, Ranchi. 

6- (Ram Naresh Ram, Chairman, NCDC Ltd,. Ranchi. 

7. Govind Kerketta, Watchman, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

8. Sheo Pujan Singh, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

9 D. B. Singh. Chairman, NCDC Ltd,, Ranchi. 

10. Mahesh Tlrkey, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

11. Pikas Lakra, Chairman, NCDC Ltd-, Ranchi. 

12. Masum, Chairman, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

13. George Ekka, Peon. NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

14. Mithelesh Kumar Tirkey, Peon, NCDC Ltd,, Ranchi. 

15. C. Tlgga, Peon, NCDC Ltd.. Ranchi. 

16. Kailash Ram, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

17. R. N. Baitba. Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

18. Marianus Bhangra, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

19. Md. Islamul, Peon. NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. 

20. Budhan Oraon, Peon, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi, 

21. National Coal Organisation Employees Association, Darbhanga House 

Ranchi Complainants 


Versus 

1 The employers In relation to the National Coal Development Corparatiw 
Ltd having its registered office at Darbhanga House, Ranchi througl 
the Chairman/Managing Director. 

2. The Director (Administration). N.C..D.C, Ltd., Ranchi. 

3. The Chief of Administration, NCDC Ltd., Ranchi. p a rtiei 


On behalf of the comvlainants - — Shri R. K. Naug, Assistant Geneiul Secre 
tary. National Coal Organisation Employees Association, 

On behalf of the Opposite Parties.— (1) Shri L. Singh Labour Officer 
(2) Shri R. S. Muiti, Additional Chief Personnel Officer, 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 iz\ 


State; Bihar. 


Industry : Coal. 


Dhctubad , 28 th November 1970 
AWARD 

The complainants are represented by Shri R, K. Naug, Assistant General Sec- 
retary, National Coal Organisation Employees Association and the opposite parties 
by Shri L. Singh, Labour Officer and Shri R. S. Murty, Additional Chief Personnel 
Officer. On behalf of the complainants an application is submitted to permit 
them to withdraw the complaint petition. This Tribunal is not concerned with 
the reasons mentioned in paras 2 to 4 of the application- The permission is granted 
to withdraw the complaint petition. The effect of the withdrawal of the com- 
plaint petition will be that the complaint petition was not filed at all. The award 
is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 


(Sd.) N. Venkata Rao. 

Presiding Officer. 

Centra) Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 21, Dhanbad. 

[No. 1/22/67-LRII (11) -J 

S.O- 82. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, In the industrial dispute 
between the employers In relation to the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Col- 
liery, Post Office Chanda, District Chanda and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 4th December, 1970. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL-CUM-LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

CAMP AT BHOPAL 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1970 


Present ; 

Shri M. Chandra, Presiding Officer- 

Case Ref. No. CGIT/LC(R) (4) of 1970 


Parties : 

The Manager, Hindustan, Lalpeth Colliery. P. O. Chanda. 

AND 

Their Workmen represented through The President, M.P D K K.K. Sangh, 
Chandrapur 

Appearances : 

For employers . — Shri M. M- Sapra, Advocate- 
For woikmen • — -Shri B. K. Tiwari, Advocate. 

Industry; Coal Mine. Distt: Chanda (M. S.) 


AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act- As men- 
tioned In the Schedule of the Order No. 3/2/70-LRII, darted 31st January, 1970, 
the following dispute has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication : ■ — 

1 Whether the section of the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery, 
Chanda in placing Shri Prabhudas Dome in category I and employing 
him as an Explosive Carrier from December, 1965 and in withdrawing 
the duties of Explosive Carrier from him from September. 1969 was 
justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from 
what date? 

Shit Prabhudas Doma employee alleged that he was appointed a Mazdoor on 
1st Marth, 1964 but was given the work of a helper in the workshop without pay- 
ment ol the wages due to the helper and that it amounts to a foul labour practice. 
According to him, he was appointed as an Explosive Carrier on 30th December, 1965 
and was given underground duties and had been working as an Explosive Carrier 
until 12th November, 1969. He alleges that he was entitled to get Rs. 7.75 per 



122 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


day, which are category II wages, while he was getting only Rs. 0.55 per day which 
are category I wages. He alleges further that the work of explosive carrier was 
withdrawn from him from September, 1969. He claims that he should be reinstated 
in the position of Explosive Carrier and given the same duties. 

The management raised a number of objections and contended that it was an 
individual dispute and could not be converted into an industrial dispute merely be- 
cause it had been taken up by the Union viz ■ M. P, Rashtriya Koyala Khadan 
Kamagar Sangh, Chandrapur. According to the management Sri Prabhudas waa 
never a member of the union at the relevant time and the union does not maintain 
records, registers and vouchers and does not observe the Trade Unions Act. griev- 
ances procedure and Code of discipline and has very little union activities at the 
colliery having very few members of the colliery and thus has no representative 
character. On merits the management alleges that Sri Prabhudas was appointed 
as General Mazdoor on 1st March, 1964, that he made an application in December, 
1065 for being allowed to work as an Explosive Carrier because he wanted to appear 
In the Sidarr’s examination requiring practical experience and that the permission 
was granted to him as desired by him. The management further alleges that Sri 
Prabhudas confirmed in an application his intention of merely taking experience of 
the Explosive Carrier foregoing his wages and designation. According to the 
management, application was sent to the Assistant Labour Commissioner (C) Nag- 
pur and has not been returned. The case of the management is that after working 
for a period of four years Sri Prabhudas asked for a certificate to appear in Gas- 
testing examination In January, 1969, that the certificate was given to him, but 
the workman never appeared and passed the examination anri was consequently 
asked to resume the original job of a general unskilled mazdoor. The services of 
Erl Prabhudas as an Explosive Carrier were according to the management not 
required since there were already 15 shot carriers in the service of the colliery. 
The contention of the management is that the worker has been proper y categorised 
and has been properly paid. 

Sri Prabhudas In his rejoinder denies that it is the dispute of single workman 
and has been converted into an industrial dispute and alleges that It Is a case of 
unfair labour practice carried on by the management and that his case is only an 
instance- According to Elm he because a member of the uni r\ on .'lid October, 
1969 while the complaint was made on ICth October, 1969 

The following issues arise for determination: — 

Issues 

1. Whether Shri Prabhudas Damujt was a member of the M. P. Rashtriya 

Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh at the rclcvent time. 

2. If not, Is the reference bad in law and beyond the jurisdiction of this 

Tribunal? 

3. Whether the action of the management of Hindustan Lalpeth CoHiery, 

Chanda in placing Shrl Prabhudas Dome in Category I and employing 
him as an Explosive Carrier from December, 1905 and in withdrawing 
the duties of Explosive Carrier from him from September, 1969, was 
justified? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from what 
date? 

Findings-. 

Issues Noa. 1 and 2. — The first question is what was the relevant time at which 
it was necessary that Sri Prabhudas Dome should have been a member of the 
M.P. Rashtriya Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh which took up his cause. The 
contention of the learned counsel for the management Is that Sri Prabhudas Doma 
should have been a member of the Union at the time when the cause of action 
arose and not at the time of the reference. 

There is nothing in the Act which makes It necessary that the dispute must be 
sponsored by the Union which existed at the time when the cause of action arose. 
Th&“ reference Is under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It provides 
that where the appropriate Government is of the opinion that any Industrial 
dispute exists or is apprehended, it may at any time, by order in writing refer 
the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with or relevant to the dis- 
pute to a tribunal for adjudication. 

“Industrial dispute’’ Is defined In Section E(ki of the Act as follows: — 

"industrial dispute” means any dispute or difference between employers and 
employers, or between employers and workmen, which Is connected 
with the employment or the terms of emQloyment or with the condi- 
tion of labour, of any person. 



Sec. 3 (il)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 123 


Evidently, the definition contemplates that — 

1. the subject matter of the dispute Is to relate to a dispute or difference 
in respect of the employment, terms of employment or conditions of 
labour of any person; and 

2 the parties to the dispute may be- 
ta) employers and employers, or 

(b) employers and workmen, or 

(c) workmen and workmen. 

It is thus clear that the subject matter may relate to only one person- So far as 
the parties to the dispute are concerned the word “workmen” has been used in the 
plural and not singular, This is the reason why It has been held by the Supreme 
Court that the dispute even though it may relate to one person must be sponsored 
by a union or a considerable number of workmen. It is nowhere provided that 
the union sponsoring th e dispute should have a majority of the workmen as its 
members or even l/3rd of the workmen as its members. Nor is it necessary 
that a union sponsoring the dispute should have been in existence at the time of 
the dismissal. All that Is necessary is that the Union of workmen or the employers 
should have sponsored the dispute at the time cf the reference. 

In Bombay Union of Journalists and others Vs. The “Hindu”, Bombay and 
another [1961 (2) Labour Law Journa,] Shah, J. speaking for the Court observ- 
ed; — 

“In each case in ascertaining whether an individual dispute has acquired the 
character ol an industrial dispute the lest is whether at the date of 
the reference the dispute was taken up as supported by the Union 
of workmen of the employers against whom the dispute is raised by 
an individual workman, or by an appreciable number of workmen.” 
(The underlining is mine). 

Two prepositions of law follow from these observations — • 

(1) What is necessary that the dispute was taken up as supported bv the 

union of the workmen at the date of the reference. It need not have 
been taken up at the earlier date when the workman was actually 
dismissed. 

(2) the dispute should be supported bv the union of the workmen. If it is 

not supported by a union as such it must be supported by an appreci- 
able number of workmen. 

It is evident that the question of appreciable number of workmen arises in the 
second alternative only he. when the case is not supported by a union of the work- 
men of the employers. 

In W.I. Match Co. Ltd. Vs The W-I. Match Co. Workers Union and others 
[1970 (1) Supreme Court Cases p. 225], Shelat, J. speaking for the Supreme Court 
observed : — 

“It may be that at the date of such dismissal there is no union or that the 
workmen are not sufficiently organised to take up the cause of the 
concerned workman and no espousal for that or any other reason had 
taken place at the time when such cause occurres. But that cannot 
mean that because there was no such union in existence on that date, 
the dispute cannot become an industrial one If it is taken up later on 
by the union or by a substantial section of the workmen.” 

Shelat J. went on to say— 

"Any controversy on the question as to whether it is necessary that a con- 
cerned workman to be a member of the union which has espoused 
his cause at the time when that cause arose has been finally set at 
rest by the decision in Bombay Union of Journalists Vs. Hindu, 
Bombay (supra) where this Court laid down that the tests whether 
individual dispute got converted Into an industrial dispute, depended 
whether on the date of reference the dispute was taken on and 
supported by the union of workmen of the employer against whom 
the dispute was raised by an individual workman or by an appreciable 
number of such workmen,” 

This provides a complete answer to the argument of the learned counsel for the 
management- It is not material whether the union was in existence at the time 
of the dismissal or not. It Is 9ufRcient that the dispute has been taken up and 
supported by the union ail the time of the reference. 



i 24 the gazette of India: January 2 , wi/pausa 12 , 1892 [Part ii 


The learned counsel lor the management relied on a Punjab High Court deci- 
sion, Khadi Gramudyog Bhawan Workers Uni'on Vs. Krishnamurthi (E) and an- 
other [1960 (2) Labour Law Journal p. 261]. In this case it was held that an 
Individual dispute can become an industrial dispute only on the date of the dis- 
missal. It was further held that the fact that the workman became a member after 
the dismissal would be of no use to him. An earlier decision of the same High 
Court was followed. This view is not good law in view of clear observations of the 
Supreme Court mentioned there. Fqt the same reason similar decisions of other 
High Court contrary to the Supreme Court in W.I. Match Co.’s case (supra) are 
no longer good law. The relevant time is therefore the date of the reference and 
all that is necesi&ry toi the workman is to show that the dispute had been taken 
up by the Union of workmen at that time. 

Sri R. C. Pande (WAV. 3) is the President of the Union. It is proved from 
his statement that the union is affiliated to the INTUC and is a registered union. 
Its registration number is 2940 and affiliation No. 3126. It is also clear from Sri 
R- C. Pande's statement that the Union contains members who work in the 
Hindustan Lalpcth Colliery' He brought the membership Register of the Union. 
At page 14 Sri Prabhudas was found entered as a member. The handwriting Is 
that of Sri Pindkar proved by W.W. 3 who is acquainted with Sri Pindkar's hand- 
writing. The copy of the relevant entry is Ex. W.W. 3/1. In the receipt book 
of counterfoils (Ex. W.W. 2/1 of the reference case No. CGIT/LC(E) (B) / 70 Serial 
No. 370 is the counterfoil of the receipt given to Sri Prabhudas for Rs. 6/-. The 
subscription, according to Sri Pande, is Re. 78/- per month, but members often 
give advance subscription for more than a month. Since the receipt was for 
Rs. 6/- it is evident that the subscription was given in advance for the whole 
year- 

It is also clear from the statement of Sri R. C. Pande that at first a hunger 
strike notice was given for Sri Prabhudas’s case, then another hunger strike notice 
was given, and then there was a conciliation case before the Asstt. Labour Com- 
missioner, Sri Shankarappa. The case was supported by the Union. Resolution 
No. 3 dated 24lh September, 1969 at page 6 of the Minutes Book is also signed at 
the end by Sri Pande (W-W. 3) himself and signatures are proved by him. The 
resolution relates to the wages of Sri Prabhudas explosive carrier. It is true 
that when cross-examined Sri Pande stated that Sri Prabhudas did not make any 
complaint to the Union in writing. At the same time. Sri Pande, categorically 
stated that Sri Prabhudas himself attended the Union and told the Union about his 
case complaining that he wa.i given the work of Explosive Carrier and was paid 
wages as General Unskilled Mazdoor since 1963 It is not necessary that a com- 
plaint to the union must be In writing. It can be oral also. Sri Pande luither 
states thal there were meetings with the colliery at the residence ol the Collector 
and elsewhere but the colliery was not prepared to hear the workmen. It is not 
for the Union to keep minutes of the meeting held before the Collector. I agree 
with him that these meetings are called only for the sake of industrial peace- 

It has thus been clearly established from the statement of Sri Pande (W-W. 3), 
the minutes book, register and the counterfoil of the receipt that Sri Prabhudas 
wa s a member of the Union at the relevant time, in fact on a date much earlier 
than the date of reference. It Is also clear from the statement of Sri Pande and 
from these documents i.e., registers and minutes of the Union, that it is a repre- 
sentative union of the workers of the colliery containing a considerable number 
of workmen as its members. 

It is not at all necessary that all the workmen or even a majority of them 
should be members of the union- This is a union which cannot be equated with 
one which contains only a few workmen as its members of a particular employer 
and Is really an outsider. It is a union of the colliery taking up the case of a 
member workman working in that very colliery. 11 Is thus clear that the dispute 
was an industrial dispute and is not beyond the jurisdiction of this Tribunal Nor 
can the reference be said to be bad In law tn any manner whatsoever. 

Both the issues are found accordingly against the management and in favour 
of the workmen, 

Issue No. 3— It Is admitted on behalf of the Union that Sri Prabhudas was 
appointed as a General Mazdoor on 1st March. 1966. It Is further admitted that 
he was given the work of a helper in the workshop and that with effect from 30th 
O cloer, 1965 he was appointed as an Explosive Carrier and he was £iven under- 
ground duties. The management alleged that this was done because m December 
1966 Sri Prabhudas made an application to the Manager to allow him to work as 
explosive carrier because he wanted to appear in the Sirdar’s examination re- 
quiring practical experience. It is further alleged that the original application, 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 125 


according to the management, was sent to the Asstt. Labour Commissioner (C) 
Nagpur during the conciliation proceedings and has not been returned. The 
Union denies all these allegations and contends that no application of the kind was 
given by the workman. Nor was any such application sent to or produced be- 
fore the Assistant Labour Commissioner (C) Nagpur. 

The allegation of the management regarding the application is clearly false. 
The flies of the Asstt. Labour Commissioner have been summoned and there is no 
application of the workman of the nature suggested by the management. On the 
contrary, in the very failure report the Asstl. Labour Commissioner (Cj Nagpur 
himself says that the management had stated that the workman had given a letter 
to them for the purpose of qualifying himself for Sirdar’s examination and offered 
to work as an Explosive Carrier without demanding the proper wages of the 
Explosive Carrier Cat. II, and that the management could not produce the letter 
referred to above for his perusal. 

The management relied on Annexure No. 1 to its written statement Annexure 1 
is a letter purporting to have been written by the Manager of the Coliieiiy to the 
Asstt. Labour Commissioner and it i s said in that letter that Sri Prabhudas had 
requested the management to designate him as a shot-carrier which would give 
him some experience to appear in the Sirdar’s examination in support of which his 
application was enclosed which was self-explanatory. The contention is that this 
letter says that the explanation was sent to the Asstt. Labour Commissioner. As 
already mentioned above from the failure report of the Asstt. Labour Commis- 
sioner that no such application was produced before him. It is also significant that 
the letter Annexure No. 1 does not contain at the end ainy list of the enclosures. 
If the application had actually been sent as an enclosure it was natural for the 
Manager to enter It in his letter at the end as an enclosure. This Is the ordinary 
procedure- The fact that it was not so entered shows that no application was 
actually enclosed. If it had been sp enclosed there was no reason why the Asstt. 
Labour Commissioner should have said in his failure report that no application of 
the kind had been produced by the Manager. Sri K. P. Bajaj (E.W. 1 ) certainly 
refers to such an application In his statement in the witness box. But in view of 
the documentary evidence including the failure report, it is not possible to rely 
on the statement of Sri Bajaj, who is employed in the same company and is a 
highly interested witness. His interest is evident frorq the fact that Sri Bafaj stated 
that Sri Prabhudas worked as an explosive carrier for about a year, while in the 
written statement ol the management itself it is admitted that the experience 
required for Sirdar’s examination was of not less than three years and that after 
working “near about four years” as such the worker asked for the certificate to 
appear for the Gas-Testing examination in January, March and September, 1969. It 
is further mentioned in the written statement that thi s certificate was issued to 
him but when he failed to appear, he was asked to resume his original job as 
General Unskilled Mazdoor. It is, therefore, obvious that Sri Prabhudas work- 
ed as a shot-carrier or an explosive carrier for a much longer period than one 
year and at least for three or four years. Thus the Assistant Manager 
(E.W. 1) is prepared to go even beyond the written statement. The mere fact 
that the management is not mentioning him as shot-carrier in the register ia 
only because the management was not prepared to pay him the wages of a 
shot-carrier. Sri Bajaj was asked categorically whether Sri Prabhudas work- 
ed as a shot-carrier from 1965 till today. He had to admit that he does not 
knew if Sri Prabhudas was working ars such for such a long period. Clearly, 
his statement that Sri Prabhudas only worked as shot-carrier for about a year 
is false and made only to support the management’s case. On the basis of the 
statement of such a witness, it is not possible to believe him and hold that 
Sri Prabhudas actually made any application of the kind suggested by the manage- 
ment, when Sri Prabhuda s has himself denied if on oath. 

Sri Ravi Shanker Vyas (E.W. 2) the Head Time Keeper in the colliery has 
come forward to state that he read the application of Sri Prabhudas and hag also 
deposed about the contents. He had, however, to admit that while searching for 
that application he did not read any other apnlicatlon. How could he distinguish 
between the alleged application and others unless h e read the others also at least 
in past. He stated thut application was sent to Assistant Labour Commissioner(C), 
Nagpur but when he was cross-examined he had to admit that he did not know 
whether the application was sent after he had given it to the Manager. He admits 
that he did not go to the Labour Commissioner to state about it. He is an employee 
of the management and it is not possible to rely on his interested statement in 
the face of the failure report. He has clearly sacrificed truth to his interest and 
zeal to support the case of the management. Nor is It possible to rely on another 
clerk Shrl Basant Kumar (E.W. 3). He says that he had no knowledge whether 



126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part li- 


lt was an important dak or not and he had only to see whether he had sent the 
enclosure or not. As we have already seen the letter (annexure 1) does not 
mention any enclosure at the bottom of the letter. So, there was no question of 
his sending any enclosure. Nor is it provable that the clerk at this stage would 
remeber that any enclosure was actually sent with thi s letter particularly when 
it is not entered at the end ot the letter as an enclosure. I do not believe him 
and tind that no application of the kind is proved to have been given by the 
workman. 

The management says in the written statement that there are 15 shot-carriers 
In the service of the Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery and that tl^p management never 
required an explosive carrier to be added to that strength. It is at the same time 
admitted in the written statement itsaelf that Sri Prabhudas was given the work 
of an explosive carrier. It is true that Madhukar Is now under suspension. His 
statement has therefore to be scrutinised carefully. But he is supported by the 
management’s own written statement on the point that Prabhudas worked as a 
shot-carrier and that also for about 4 years. Prabhudas also swears that he 
worked as a shot-carrier for many years. 1 do not see any reason to disbelieve 
them on this point. 

The result is that we find that Prabhudas worked as an explosive carrier for 
at least 4 years and that there is nothing on record by way of any application of 
his to show that he had willingly foregone the wages of an explosive carrier. 
The management thus took from him the work of an explosive carrier and do 
not want to pay him the wages for the work he did. He Is consequently entitled 
to get wages of the Explosive Carrier with effect, from December. 1965. Nor is 
there any reason for reverting him from the job of an explosive carrier with 
effect from December, 1965 once we find that the management’s allegation regard- 
ing Sri Prabhudas’s application has not been substantiated and established. There 
Is no justification for the withdrawal of the work from him. No adverse entry 
or complaint has been proved against him. There are no special qualifications 
proved to be necessary for the work of an explosive carrier. He is accordingly 
entitled to the wages of an explosive carrier with effect from December, 1965 and 
should be placed in category II. I find this issue accordingly for the workman. 

Orders: — 

In view of my findings of Issues 1 to 3, withdrawal of the duties of explosive 
carrier from Sri Prabhudas was not justified and he should be paid 
the wages of the Explosive Carrier with effect from December, 1965 
and placed in Category II. He will get Rs, 200/- as his costs from 
the Management. 

The award is made accordingly, 

(Sd.) M. Chandra, 

Presiding Officer. 

24-10-1970- 
TNo, 3/2/70-LRII.J 

S.O. 83. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the Industrial dispute 
between the employers In relation to the management of New Ghusick Colliery, 
Post Office Kallpahari, District Burdwan and their workmen which was received 
by the Centro] Government on the 9th December, 1970. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, CALCUTTA 
Reffhence No, 52 of 1970 

Parties : 

Employers in relation to the management of New Ghusick Colliery. 

And 

Their workmen. 

Present : 

Mr. B. N. Banerjee, Presiding Officer. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 127 


Appearances ; 

On behalf of Employers — Sri J, N. Chatterjee. an Employee. 
On behalf of Workmen— Absent. 


State: West Bengal. Industry: Coal Mines 

AWARD 

By Order No. 0/27/70-LRII, dated October 17, 1970, the Government of India, 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employment), referred the following dispute between the employers in relation 
to the management of New Ghusick Colliery and their workmen, to this Tribunal, 
for adjudication, namely: 

“Whether the order dated the 1st April, 1970, issued by the Executive Officer, 
Coalfield Recruiting Organisation, Post Office Jharia. District Bhanbad, 
recoding Shri Bhullan Singh, Unit Supervisor, at New Ghusick Colliery, 
Post Office Kalipahari, District Burdwan to his office and the conse- 
quent stoppage of his work by the management of New Ghusick Col- 
liery from the 4th April, 1970, was justified? If not, to what relief is 
the workman entitled?” 


2- It appears from the order of reference that the cause of the workman had 
been espoused by the Assistant Secretary, Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), but 
neither the Trade Union nor the workman submitted any written statement. It 
appears, however, from a copy of a letter addressed by the workman to the Under 
Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation, dated November 
10, 1970. that he had no dispute with the management and that he was prompted 
to resort to the present proceedings at the instance of some persons who had 
completely misguided him. A copy of the aforesaid letter was also forwarded to 
this Tribunal by the Executive Officer of the Coal fields Recruiting Organisation. 
The said letter is quoted herelnbelow : 

“Re: Case No. 0/27/70-L.R.ii 

This is to notify that I have no dispute with the management of Bhattar 
and Company or for that matter with the C-iR.O. 

No one is authorised by me to persue the proceeding which 1 was prompted 
to resort to at the instance of some persons who completely misguid- 
ed me and benefltted at my expense, 

I regret the wholething and altogether withdraw for from dispute ” 

3- In the written statement filed on behalf of the management, It is stated : 

“(8) That Sri Bhullan Singh has no dispute with the management and the 

same has subsequently been admitted by Shrl Bhullan Singh, himself 
in a letter addressed by him to the Regional Labour Commissioner, 
(Central), Asansol with a copy to us, A true copy of this letter dated 
19th October, 1970 Is being, herewith, enclosed..”. 

4. Now that it appears that the workman is not interested in the dispute any 
longer, I pass a ‘no dispute’ award In the reference. 


Dated, December 4, 1970- 


(Sd.) B. N. Banerjee. 

Presiding Officer. 


[No- 0/27/70-LRII] 


S.O. 84. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3\ Dhanbad, in the Industrial dis- 
pute between the employers in relation to the management of Dugda Coal Washery. 
Post Office Dugda, District Hazarlbagh and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 3rd December, 1970. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO. 3) 

AT DHANBAD 
Reference No. 81 of 1969. 

Present : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M.A.M.I., Presiding Officer. 

Parties ; 

Employers In relation to the management of Dugda Coal Washery. 

V«. 


Their workmen. 



128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


Appearances : 

For employers — 

1. Sri Ranen Roy, Advocate. 

2- Sri T. N. Srlvastava, Senior Personnel Officer. 

3. Sri R. K, Das, Advocate, and 

4. Sri S. S. Kapoor, Advocate. 

For workmen — 

1, Sri P. K. Bose, Advocate. 

Industry: Steel- State: Bihar. 


Dhanbad , the 17th of November 1970 
AWARD 


1. The Government of India, in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) by notification No. 8/50/69- 
LRII dated the 30th of October, 1969 referred the following Industrial dispute be- 
fore this Tribunal for adjudication. 


Schedule 

“(1) Whether Dugda Coal Washery is to be treated as a separate establish- 
ment of Central Coal Washerles Organisation, Hindustan Steel Limited, 
for the payment of Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965? If 
not, what relief the workers of Dugda Washerles of Hindus! an Steel 
Limited are entitled to in regard to payment of Bonus under the Act? 

(2) Whether the workmen ot Dugda Washery of Central Coal Washerles 
Organisation of Hindustan Steel Limited, Post Office Dugda. District 
Hazarlbagh are entitled to payment of Bonus and If so, from which 
year?” 

2- The Coal Washeries Worker’s Union filed written statement on 17th Novem- 
ber, i960 on behalf of the workmen. Their case Is that the Union presented d 
charter ot demand dated 13th November, 1963 before the management of Hindus- 
tan Steel Limited at Its Head Office at Ranchi and the financial and other affairs 
1964 and 1965. 

3- Consequent upon the said charter of demand dated 15th November, 1965 
the management effected payment of Bonus for the financial year 1905-66 only 
but no payment was made either for the years prior to 1085-66 or for the subse- 
quent years. The Union on behalf of the workmen continued to press for the 
payment of Bonus and when all efforts of the union proved futile the union served 
upon the management a notice of strike dated 12th September, 1968 with a 17 
points demand in which the demand for Bonus was one of the Items. 

4. The management and the Union had detailed discussions over the strike 
notice and ultimately a settlement was arrived at between the parties on 27th 
May, 1969 and in regard to demand of Profit Sharing Bonus the parties agreed 
to have a voluntary reference under Section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947- 

5. In view of the aforesaid terms of settlement a joint reference under Section 
10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 was made by the parties and the Central 
Government have referred the present matter before this Tribunal for adjudica- 
te cn. 

0. According to (he Union the management and control at the highest level in 
respect of Dugda Coal washery are In the hands of the top management of Hindus- 
tan Steel Limited at its Head Office at Ranchi and the financial and other affairs 
are also controlled from Ranchi in accordance with law and practice of the 
management and for all practical purpose Dugda Coal Washery Is treated as an 
unit of Hindustan Steel Limited. 

7. The Central Coal Washeries Organisation is simply an Administrative wing 
of the Hindustan St«»I limited for coordinating between the three units of coal 
washerles and besides that it has got do separate entity, and that the Dugda Coal 
Washery can not be treated as a separate establishment of the Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation, Hindustan Steel Limited for_ the payment of Bonus under 
The Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 but it should be treated as constituent unit of 
Hindustan Steel Limited and to be taken at par with all the units of Hindustan 
Steel Limited. 



Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 1 29 


8- Since Dugaa Coal Washery is not a separate establishment but one of the 

constituent units of the Hindustan Steel Limited the workmen of Dugda Coal 

washry are to be treated at par with all employees of Hindustan Steel Limited 
and are entitled to receive Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act. 1965 for all 
the years under dispute. 

9- Thi„ management have a'rcady made payments of Bonus under the Payment 
of Bonus Act. 1965 to the workers of Dugda Coal Washery for the financial year 

1965- 66 and again for the financial year 1968-89 withholding payments for the 
earlier financial years prior to 1965-66 and lor the intervening years i.e. for 

1966- 67 and 1907-68. 

10. On these grounds the prayer of the Union is that the Dugda Coal Washery 
should not be treated as a separate establishment but It should be treated as a 

constituent unit of Hindustan Steel Limited and the workmen of Dugda Coal 

Washery should be treated at par with all employees of Hindustan Steel Limited 
and be paid Bonus for all the years since 1963-64- The workmen of Dugda Coal 
Washery are entitled to payment of Bonus with effect from the financial year 
1963-64 and onwards. 

11 Tne management filed written statement on 12th December, 1969. Their 
case is that apart from three steel plants at Durgapur, (Rourkeia and Ballai th* 
Hindustan Steel Ltd has under its management and Alloy Steels Plant at Durga- 
pur, a Fertiliser Plant at Rourkela, the Central Coai Washeries Organisation at 
Dhanbad. 

12. Like Steel Plants and Fertiliser and Alloy Steels Plant the Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation also maintains its own consolidated Balance-sheet and 
Profit and Loss Accounts- The three coal washeries at Dugda, Shoiudih and 
Patherdih are merely the parts of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation. 

13. Though the Central Coal Washeries Organisation was set up in 1959 th* 
first coal washery which came Into regular production was Dugda Coal Washery 
No. 1 in 1962 and subsequently the other coal washeries started regular production 
at Bhojudih in 1962-63 and at Patherdih in 1965-66. Another Coal Washery a* 
Dugda (II) came into regular production in 1968-69. This comprises the entir* 
set of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation. 

14. The Coal Washeries are only parts of the Central Coal Washeries Organi- 

sation under its administrative control and management, and that, In the circum- 
stances, the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated as a separate establishment 
of Central Coal Washeries Organisation for payment of bonus under the Payment 
of Bonus Act. J 

15. Accordingly th e workmen at Dugda Coal Washery would be entitled to 
bonus from the year the Central Washeries Organisation earns profit within 
the meaning of the Act or on the expiry of the sixth accounting year i.e. from 
the year 1968-69. 

16. According to the management the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated 
*s a constituent unit of Hindustan Steel Limited. 

17 .The Union has examined 4 witnesses, viz., WW-1 to WW-4 and also 
exhibited 13 item of documents which arc marked as Exit. W-l to W-13. The 
management has also examined one witness, viz.. Shri K. Janardan, the Senior 
Accounts Officer of Central Coal Washery Organisation. 

18. WW-3 is Sri B.D, Dubey, who Is the President of the Coal Washeries work- 
ers Union and is also a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly. In his evi- 
dence he has stated the case of the Union in very clear words. He stated that 
for the financial year 1965-66 bonus was paid by the management @ 4 per cent 
for the workers of Dugda Coal Washery. In that year only 4 per cent bonus was 
paid to all the workmen of all concern of Hindustan Steel Ltd. and the bonus 
was not paid for the financial year 1966-67, 1967-68 for which they raised dispute 
He has further stated that their claim is that they are the constituent unit of 
the Hindustan Steel Limited and to be treated at par with all other units of 
Hindustan Steel Ltd. 

19, MW-1 Sri K. Janardan Is the Senior Accounts Officer In Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation of Hindustan Steel Ltd. He has stated in his evidence 
that he prepares balance sheet and profit and ’nss accounts of Central Coal Washe- 
ries Organisation and that the printed annual report contain consolidated balance 
sheet of the Hindustan Steel Limited as also balance sheet and Profit and Lot* 



130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 


[Part H — 


Account of Central Coal Washeries Organisation. He has further stated that tbe 
production started in Dugda No. 1 Coat Washery In 1982-03. 

20. MW-1 has proved Ext. M-ll series, and he has stated in his evidence that 
the calculation of depreciation was made in his department and it was checked 
by him and it bears his signature. He has further stated that he has also cal- 
culated the income tax depreciation for the year 1963-64 to 1967-68 (Ext. M-13). 

21. The printed annual reports (Ext. M-l to M-10) contain consolidated b«- 
lar-e sheets of Hindustan Steel Limited and also Central Coal Washeries Organi- 
sation. 

22. The case of the management in brief is that the three coal washeries, 
namely Bhojudih, Pathardlh and Dugda Coal Washeries are departmental^ run 
as undertakings of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation with their adminis- 
trative office at Dhanbad. The Central Coal Washeries Organisation prepares 
and maintains a separate balance sheet :nd profit and loss Account and is there- 
fore, ,o be treated a separate establishment under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965. 

23. Whereas the case of the Union in brief is that Dugda Coal Washery is not 
a separate establi-hment of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation but one of 
the constituent units of the Hindustan Steel Limited and that the workmen of 
Dugda Coal Washeries arc In h" ter Je-l ;«t mr with all employees of Hindustan 
Steel Limited Riid are entitled to receive Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act, 
1965. 

24. This Is in substance the case of the parties. 

25. The first question for my consideration is what is the relationship of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation to the parent body, namely the Hindustan 
Steel Limited. I have next to see what is the position of the Dugda Coal Washery 
i.e. I have next to consider the position of Dugda Coal Washery and see whether 
It is a branch of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation or a branch of the 
undertaking of the Hindustan Steel Ltd., the present organisation. This would 
■determine the basis on which the workmen would earn bonus and also the year 
from which they would earn bonus. 

26. Under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, the word “establishment" Is not 
separately defined. It is however, apparent from the language of Section 2(14) 
that an establishment may be a factory or any other kind of' business establishment 
Therefore, I find that the wo rt 'establishment' has been used in the statute in Its 
ordinary sense of a business or manufa-turu. =; concern Section 3 of the Payment 
of Bonus Act contemplates an establishment consisting of different departments 
undertakings or branches. Section 3 of the payment of Bonus Act rums as 
follows: — 

“Where an establishment consists of different departments or undertakings or 
has branches, whether situated in the same place or in different places, nil such 
departments or undertakings or branches shall be treated as parts oi the same 
establishment for the purpose oi computation of bonus under this Act; 

Provided that where for any accounting year a separate balance sheet, and 
profit and loss account are prepared and maintained in respect of any such de- 
partment or undertaking or branch, then, such department or undertaking or 
branch shall be treated as a separate establishment for the purpose of computa- 
tion of bonus under this Act for that year, unless such department or undertaking 
or branch was, immediately before the commencement of that accounting year 
treated as part of the establishment for the purpose of computation of bonus.” 

27. The main part of Section 3 provides that where an establishment consists 
of different departments or undertakings or has branches whether situated In 
the same place o • In different places, all such departments and undertakings and 
branches shall be treated as parts of the same establishment for the purpose of 
computation of bonus. 

28. The proviso to the Section, however, makes an exception in that in treats 
such departments, undertakings or branches as “separate establishment" for the 
purpose of computation of bonus, if for any accounting year a separate balance 
sheet and profit and loss accounts were prepared and maintained for it by such 
departments, undertakings or branches. But the exception does not apply. If 
Immediately before the commencement of accounting year such departments, under- 
takings or branches had been treated as parts of the establishment for the purpose 
of computation of bonus 

19. Thus although an establishment means an establishment that Is to say, a 
business ar manufacturing concern, Section 3 of the Payment of Bonus Act creates 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 13 1 


a legal fiction under which there may he an establishment consisting of different 
departments, undertakings or branches, each of which must be deemed to be a 
“'separate establishment.” In other words, for the purpose of computation of 
bonus, departments, undertakings or branches of an establishment do not mean 
parts of the parent establishment, under certain circumstances, but need be 
regarded as separate establishments. 

30. It was argued before me on behalf of the management that the Dugda 
Coal Washery should not be treated as a separate establishment either of the 
Central Coal Washery Organisation of Hindustan Steel Ltd. or of Ulndust; u Steel 
Limited itself. It was submitted before me that the Central Coal Washer; Orga- 
nisation was a department or undertaking of the Hindustan Steel Limited, which 
maintains a separate account and should be treated as a separate establishment. 
Dugda Coal Washery was a unit of the Central Washerles Organisation and 1* 
Could not be treated as a separate establishment of the °aid Organisation and 
there is substance in the submission made by (he management. 

31. It appears from Ext. M-9 and M-10 (Annual report) containing balance 
sheet and profit and loss account for the years 1966-67 and 1967-68, that separate 
balance sheet and profit and loss account were being maintained for the Central 
■Coal Washeries Organisation and not for Dugda Coal Washery. Thus, the position 
Is that the Dugda Coal Washery is a unit of the Central Coal Washerles Organisa- 
tion which is a separate establishment of the parent estab’ishmen known as 
Hindustan Steel Limited. The payment of Bonus Act contemplates existence of 
separate establishment or establishment within an existing establishment, but 
does not contemplate creation of a separate establishment within a separate 
establishment itself. Therefore, the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated as 
a separate establishment of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messers 
Hindustan Steel Limited for the purpose of Payment of Bonus Act. 

32. It cannot be also a separate establishment of the Hindustan Steel Limited 
because with that parent organisation it has little connection. But because it is 
a unit of a separate establishment, the workmen employed in the unit should be 
entitled to bonus at the rate payable to the said separate estabbshment, namely 
the Central Coal Washerles Organisation 

33. I therefore, hold that the Dugda Coal Washery is not to be treated 
as a separate establishement of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messrs 
Hindustan Steel Limited for Payment of Bonus. I also hold that the Dugda 
Coal Washery is a unit of the Central Coal Washery Organisation, which Itself 
Is a separate establishment of Hindustan Steel Limited. Therefore, Dugda Coal 
Washery forms an Integral part of the Central Coal Washerles Organisation. 
The workmen employed in Dugda Coal Washery are therefore, entitled to bonus 
on the basis of the separate Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messrs Hindustan Steel Limited and not 
on the consolidated balance sheet and profit and loss account ot the Hindustan 
Steel Limited. 

34. Therefore, Section 16 of the Payment of Bonus Act shall be applicable to 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation. 

35. There Is no dispute that Messrs Hindustan Steel Limited was incorporated 
In January, 1954 and the the Dugda Coal Washery started production from the 
year 1962-63. The relevant portion of section 16 of the payment of Bonus Act, 
1965 runs as follows:— 

‘‘Where an establishment is newly set up, where before or after the commence- 
ment of this Act, the employees of such establishment shall be entitled to be paid 
bonus under this Act only: — 

(a) from the accounting year in which the employer derives profit from 

such establishment; or 

(b) from the sixth accounting year following the accounting year in which 

the employer sells the goods produced or manufactured by him or 
renders services, as the case may be, from such establishment, 

whichever is earlier : 

Provided that In the case of any such establishment the employees thereof 
shall not, save as otherwise provided in Section 33, be entitled to be paid bonus 
under this Act in respect ol any accounting year prior to the accounting year 
commencing on any day In the year 1964, 

Explanation I.— For the purpose of this section an establishment shall not be 
deemed to be newly set up merely by reason of a change in its location, manage- 
mait, name or ownership. 



132 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past IS— 


Explanation II.— For the purpose of clause (a) an employer shall not be 
deemed to have derived profit In any accounting year unless: — 

(a) he has made provision for that year’s depreciation to which he Is 

entitled under the Income-tax Act or, as the case may be, under the 
agricultural Income-tax law; and 

(b) the arrears of such depreciation and losses incurred by him in respect 

of the establishment for the previous accounting years have been 
fully set off against his profits.” 

38. Therefore, the employees are to get bonus from the accounting year in 
which the employers derives profit, 

37. These profit and loss account for the year 1984-65 showa that 
the Co., made a net profit of Rs. 2,36 million. Therefore, the workmen of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation became entitled to payment of bonus from 
the year ended 31st March, 1965. 

38. There was no question of giving to the management any bonus holiday a9 
contemplated In Sectnon 16. 

39. It also appears from the annual reports (Ext. M-7 to M-10) that the ma- 
nagement made the following net profit: 

(a) For the accounting year ending 31-3-65 the Co. made net profit of Rs. 

2.36 million. 

(b) For the accounting year ending 31-3-66 the Co. made net profit of 

Rs. 3.22 million. 

(c) For the accounting year ending 31-3-67 the Co. made net profit of 

Rs. 2.94 million. 

(d) For the accounting year ending 31-3-68 the Co. made net profit ol 

Rs. 5,20 million. 


40. There is a dispute between the parties regarding the calculation of depre- 
ciation. According to the management the profit shown in the profit and lost 
account of Central Coal Washeries Organisation for the year 1964-63 and for thi 
subsequent years are no profit because of the provisions of explanation II of sub 
gectlon (1) of Section 16 of the Payment of Bonus Act. 


41. According to the management if the depreciation is calculated according 
to the Income Tax Act it will wipe out the profit altogether rather it will show Ions. 
Therefore, according to the management the Central Coal Washeries Organisation 
came in production for sale through its Dugda Coal Washery in the accounting 
year 1962-63 and therefore, the workmen of the Dugda Coal Washery cannot 
claim bonus under the Act prior to the year 1968-69. 

42. The real dispute therefore, hinges on the calculation of the depreciation. 

43. The management has shown the depreciation in the profit and Low Aeecfltat 
for the year 1984-65 to 1967-68 as follows:— 


For the year ending 1964-65 
For the year ending 31-3-66 
For the year ending 31-3-67 
For the year ending 31-3-68 


5.15 million. 
7.13 „ 

8.58 „ 

8.59 


44. The management has shown the loss of depreciation as per Income-tax 
Act for the year 1964-65 to Rs, 67-68 million as follows: 


For the year ended 31-3-65 

For the year ended 31-3-65 

For the year ended 31-3-67 

For the year ended 31-3-68 


12.69 million. 

16.22 „ 

17.44 „ 

14.87 „ (vide Bxt. M-13). 


45 . MW-1 has stated In his evidence that the calculation of depreciation as 
given in profit and loss account is on straight line method and it Is not acceptable 
by the income-tax. For the income-tax purpose depreciation is calculated on 
diminishing balance method as given In the Income-tax Act. 


48. He had further stated that these charts (Ext M-ll series) show depreciation 
according to the Income-Tax Act for the year 1962-63 to 1967-68. 

47. The crux of the whole problem is the calculation of depreciation. Having 
-ascertained the amount of gross profits the first Item of deduction relates K> 



j Sbc. 3(u)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 J33 


depreciation. The Income-tax Act has provided for initial and addi- 
tional depreciation besides the statutory depreciation which was already admissi- 
ble. In other words, depreciation allowed under the Income-Tax Act now con- 
sists of whas may be called the statutory normal depreciation calculated under 
rule 8 as well as initial depreciation and additional depreciation. 

48. The initial depreciation and additional depreciation are in a sense abnormal 
additions to the income-tax depreciation and they are designed to meet particular 
contingencies and for a limited period. 

49. It appears that In the ultimate result the depreciation under the Income-tax 
Act and depreciation under the ompany’s Act achieve the same result, but under 
the Income-tax Act the initial depreciation and additional depreciation in the 
early years raise the quantum of depreciations very considerably, to the detriment 
of the available surplus, and so It would not be fair to the workmen that these 
two depredations should be rated as prior charges before the available surplus is 
ascertained. 

50. Therefore, in this case I find that the Dugda Coal Washery made net profit 
in the accounting year ending 31-3-66. Therefore, the workmen of the Dugda 
•Coal Washery are entitled to bonus from the year ended March, 31, 1906 and 
there la no question of giving to the management any bonus holidays as contem- 
plated under Section 16 of tne Payment of Bonus Act. 

51. The management as a matter of fact paid bonus for the year 1965-60. 
Again the workmen have been paid bonus for the year 1968 08. They 
have not been paid bonus for the Intervening period I.e. for the financial year 
1966-07 and 1967-68. In as much os in all these years the Central Coal Washerles 
Organisation had no available surplus for giving bonus, the workmen are entitled 
to only minimum bonus under the provisions of Section 10 of the Payment of 
Bonus Act for the financial years 1966-67 and 1987-68. 

52. In this view of the case I hold that the Dugda Coal Washery Is not to be 
treated as a separate establishment of the Central Coal Washerles Organisation 
for the payment of bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act. It is to be treated 
as unit of the Central Coal Washerles Organisation which is Itself a separate 
establishment. In that view of the workmen employed at Dugda Coal Washery 
are entitled to the same payment of bonus to which the other employees of the 
Central Washerles Organisation are entitled, on the basis of the separate balance- 
sheets and profit and loss accounts of the Organisation. 

63. The workmen employed In the Dugda Coal Washery are entitled to the 
minimum bonus for the financial year 1960-67 and 1967-08. 

This Is my award. 

(Sd.) SftCHIDANAND SlNHA, 
Presiding Officer. 

[No. 8/50/69-LRII.] 


New Delhi, the 28th Decepnber 1670 

8-0. 85. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
Shri O. Venkatachalam, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central), New Delhi, Arbi- 
trator. in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited, Darbhanga House, Ranchi and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 16lh December, 
1970. 

In the matter of arbitration of an industrial dispute between the management 
®f M/s. N.C.D.C, Ltd, Ranchi and their workmen represented by the National Coal 
Organisation Employees Association, Ranchi. 

Frksent; 

Shri O. Venkatachalam, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) & Arbitrator. 
Representing the Management-, 

1 , Shri R. S. Murthi, Additional C.P.O. M/s. N.C.D.C,, Ranchi, 

Representing the workmen: 

]. Shri Abraham Mathew, General Secretary, National Coal Organisation 
Employees Union, and others. 



134 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


By an agreement dated 10th May, 1970 the Management of M/s. N.C.D.C. Ltd., 
Ranchi and the National Coal Organisation Employees Association, Ranchi agreed 
to refer the industrial dispute between them over the following issue for my arbi- 
tration under .Section 10A of the I.D. Act: — 

"Whether in view of various orders and circulars issued by the NCDC the 
date of increment fixed by the Management of NCDC in connection 
with implementation of Coal Wage Board as 15th August, of each year 
is justified? If not, to what relief the workmen are entitled keeping 
in view the ad hoc increment granted by the Management with cuect 
from 15th August, 1909.” 

2. While agreeing to treat my decision as binding on them, the parties desired 
that I should take my Award within a period of six months from the date on 
which the aforesaid agreement was published In the Gazette of India. The said 
agreement was duly published in the Gazette of India on 4th July, 1970. The 
Issue referred for arbitration would concern about 43,000 workmen out of the total 
of over 06,000 workmen employed by M/s. NCDC In all their collieries and allied 
establishments. 


3. After addressing the parties calling for their respective statements of the 
case and rejoinders to each other’s statement, I took up the case for hearing at 
Ranchi on 8th August, 1970. At this hearing the Management pleaded fcr ad- 
journment of the case for at least two weeks on the ground that their written state- 
ment could not be prepared due to other pressing work and as the workmen have 
also not submitted their written statement till then. While submitting their written 
statement on that date, the representatives of the employees association had no 
objection to the adjournment of the hearing as requested by the Management. The 
hearing was accordingly adjourned to 11th September, 1970 to be held at Calcutta. 
At this hearing, the representatives of the Association were present but those of the 
Management could not attend because of sudden cancellation of train from Ranchi 
to Calcutta due to heavy rains on the previous night. The hearing was accordingly 
adjourned again and it was resumed at Calcutta on 4th November, 1970. The 
case was partly heaird on that day when the parties were all present but the further 
hearing was adjourned to 20th November, 1970 at New Delhi to suit the convenience 
of the parties. The case was fully heard on 20th November, 1970 and th e parties 
also concluded their arguments the same evening. 


4. The contentions of the parties have been set out very elaborately in their 
statements of the case and in the rejoinders to each other’s statement, and I do 
not propose to reproduce them in this Award. It is enough if I set out briefly the 
« relevant facts and circumstances of the case as per their statements and the oral 
submissions made by them during the hearing before me, 


5 The Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry which was set up by the Govern- 
ment of India in August, 1962 submitted its report to the Government in February, 
1967. In Section F of Chapter VIII of its report the Wage Board recommended 
that the emoluments of the workmen as on 1st October, 1966 should form the basis 
for fixation of their pay in the scales of pay recommended by the Board. It was 
also recommended by the majority of members of the Board (the employers repre- 
sentatives dissenting) that its recommendations should be implemented from 1st 
January 1907. The Board was, however, silent, presumably through oversight, on 
the question of date of annual increment In the revised pay scales. The Govern- 
ment of India, however, decided that the Board’s recommendations to the extent 
they were accepted by the Government should be implemented from 15 th August, 
1967. Most of the large employers (including NCDC) halve, therefore, implemented 
the Board’s recommendations including the revised scales of pay from 15th August 
1967 All " the employers in the Industry took the total emoluments as on 1st 
October 1960 for purpose of fitment in the revised scales. Some of the employers 
including N.C.D.C. had counted the total service put In by individual workmen till 
14th August 1967 for granting service increments at the rate of one increment 
for every three completed years of service subject to a maximum of three incre- 
ments in the revised scales of pay. But all the employers granted increments in 
the new scales on 15th August 1968 and on the 15th August of each succeeding 
year. Subsequently in the middle of 1969 some of the trade unions including the 
N C O E A who is a party to this arbitration had started agitation for grant of 
annual inerwnents In Urn Revised pay scales on 1 st October, 1967 and on the 1st 
October of each year thereafter. This demand of the workmen was met only by- 
two employers in the industry, fully by M/s. Tata Iron & Steel Co_ and partly 
by M/s N.C.D.C., the latter having granted an additional increment to the workmen 



Sac. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 135 


on the 15th August, 1969 i.e., the workmen m their case were given two annual in- 
crements in the revised pay scales on 1 jui August, 1969. This management had, 
also conceded to the workmen who joined th e service ot the Corporation alter 1st 
October, 1966, the anniversary date of their joining for luture increments in the 
revised pay scales, Likewise, the workmen who were promoted to higher posts after 
1st January, 1967 have been given the benefit of annual increments to coincide with 
the anniversary dates of their promotion. Not satisned with these concessions, the 
National Coal Organisation Employees Association demanded lull implementation of 
the Wage Boards pay scales in respect o± the annual increments m the icvised pay 
scales. As the Wage Board’s report as well as the Government’s resolution accept- 
ing the Board’s recommendations were silent on this question, ilia Management of 
NCDC and the Association entered into an agreement for my arbitration oi the 
issue as already stated above. 


6. The Association in its written statement of the case and the rejoinder inter 
alia referred to certain cases of workmen of NCDC being placed in inappropriate 
scales of pay and to some other cases of what it thought 10 be Improper tltment of 
the workmen in the revised pay-scales. As such cases fell outside the purview of 
the terms of reference for my arbitration, I told the representatives of the Associa- 
tion accordingly and expressed my inability to deal with such cases. On the ques- 
tion of annual increments to the workmen in the revised pay-scales, the Association 
pleaded that as the Wage Board was silent on this question, the respective dates of 
increment of the Individual workmen in their old scales should be operative also 
in the revised pay-scales. The Association accordingly argued that if a workmen 
had joined the Corporation’s service on the 2nd October, of any year before 1st 
October, 1960, he should be entitled to the first annual increment in his new pay- 
scale on the 2nd October, 1966 and on the anniversary of that date in every suc- 
ceeding year, as if the revised pay scales came into force on 1st October, 1966 for 
all purposes, but for actual payment with effect from 15th August, 1967. In support 
of their case, the Association’s representatives referred to certain decisions cf the 
Supreme Court and High Courts. They are not. however, quite relevant to the issue 
under consideration. The Association even pleaded for full weigbtage of past ser- 
vices while fitting the workmen in the revised scales of pay. Alternatively, the 
Association argued that as the workmen of the Corporation were fitted Into the 
new pay scales on the basis of their total emoluments as on 1st October, 1966, they 
should be entitled to the first annual increment on 1st October, 1967 and to sub- 
sequent increments on the 1st October, of each succeeding year. 


7. While opposing the demund of the workmen, the Management referred to the 
various concessions which they had granted to the workmen while implementing the 
Wage Board’s recommendations and In particular to the additional increment grant- 
ed on 15th August, 1969. They also referred to the fact that both under the Award 
of the Mazumdar Tribunal (1956) and the Arbitration Awfrrd of Shri Das Gupta 
(1959), the workmen had reached the maximum of their respective pay-scales much 
earlier than 1966 and as such thev would not have earned any increment immedi- 
ately before or after October, 1966. The Management’s representative argued that 
as the new scales were implemented from 15th August, 1967. the Management 
was fully Justified in granting annual increments on the anniversary date of each 
succeeding year, particularly as the Wage Board’s report and the Central Govern- 
ment’s resolution accepting the Board’s recommendations were both silent on the 
question In support of his contention, be invited attention to the practice adopt- 
ed by the coal industry under the Mazumdar Award in respect of monthly-rated 
employees and the specific recommendations of the Arbitrator Shri Daw Gunta 
whose' Incremental scales were implemented in respect of daily-rated workmen of the 
coal industry from 1st June, 1959 and to the recommendations of Lhe Wage Boards 
for Limestone and Dolomite and for I-on Ore Industries which were implemented 
from 1st January. 1967 and the annual increments erfflnted on the anniversary of 
those dates. It was further areued on behalf of the Managemnet that as the work- 
men were guaranteed a minimum increase of 10 per cent in their exMlna emolu- 
ments while fixing their uav In the new scales *"1 as tb<w were fniL compensate^ 
for die rise in the cost of llvlnn between 1st October, I960 and 15th August. 1967 
bv means of variable DA In accordance with the Wa"e Board’s formula, no hard- 
ship at all was caused to them bv pr-wuoe the Implementation of Do pav scales 
and other recommendations of the Wa^ Board to DD Aivmsf 10fi7 In forms of 
the Government’s resolution. The observations of tbo Wave Board i r PFww'ranhs 
13 aod 14 of Chanter XVTII of Its renort show that the Board itself visualised the 
possibility of Its recommendations being brought into effect even after 1st April, 



136 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


1907. The management also referred to the fact that as against the minimum an- 
nual increment of 3 paise per day (78 paise per month) for a daily-rated workma* 
under the Das Gupta Award and Re. 1 per month for monthly-rated workmen 
under the Mazumdar Award, the corresponding rates of increments under thte Wage 
Board’s scales of pay are 10 paise per day (Rs. 2,60 per month) for daily-rated 
workmen and Rs. 3 per month for monthly-rated workmen. These rates of Incre- 
ments under the Wage Board's recommendations being substantially more than 
the rates under the earlier awards applicable to the coal Industry, the workmen 
should not complain of any hardship on account of the principle followed by the 
Management of N-C.D.G., In common with the other employers in the Industry, of 
granting their workmen annual Increments on each anniversary date from lfltfc 
August, 1907- 

8. I appreciate the weight of the arguments advanced on behalf of the Manage- 
ment. By granting an additional increment on 15th August, 1969 at a recurring 
cost of Rs. 40 lakhs per annum, they had practically reached the peak level of Im- 
plementation of the Wage Boaird’s recommendations, and gone ahead of all other 
employers in the Industry with the exception of M/s. Tata Iron Sc Steel Co. Ltd. 
Any further liberalisation in regard to annual increments by this Corporation 
would not only entail further strain on its finances which have lately show some 
improvement, it would also have very wide repercussions on the entire private see- 
dor of the coal industry as also on the other public sector company, viz., M/e, 
Singarenl Colliery Co. Ltd., who have all been struggling hard due to the keen 
competition In the Industry consequent op the removal of controls on coal since 
the middle of 1967. The only employer who has granted annual Increment# from 
lpt October, 1967 and on the anniversary dates thereafter is M/s. Tata Iron & 
Steel Co. whose collieries being captive mines of the steel industry could afford 
do do so because they have not to compete with other employers in the Industry 
for their survival. 

#. In the circumstances, I accept the contentions of the Management of NCDC 
and decide that in view of the various orders and circulars issued by the NCDC, 
the date of increment fixed by itg Management as 15th August of each year Is 
proper and justified. Consequently, the workmen will not be entitled to any relief 
under this award. The reference to me stands disposed of accordingly. 

10- I would, however, advise the Management to pay to the NCOEA the ex- 
penses incurred by its representatives (two for each hearing) for attending the 
hearings (2 at Calcutta and one at Delhi) to plead their case before me in this 
aibltration. I am suggesting this in view of the weak finances of the generality of 
trade unions in the country. 

(Sd.) O. Venkatachalam. 

Chief Labour Commissioner (C) 
and Arbitration. 

[No. 8/93/70-LR.II.] 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 10 th December 1970 

S.O. 86 — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankola 
Colliery, Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwan, and their workmen In respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication: 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the 
Act. 

Schedule 


“Whether the management of Bankola Colliery, Post Office Ukhra, District 
Burdwan was justified in effecting a change in shift working of 
Sarvashri K. K. Bhattacharjee and S. K. Mitra, Overman, Centenary 
Incline Bankola Colliery from three shifts to 2nd and 3rd shifts In 
rotation from the 6th August, 1969? If not, to what relief the work- 
men are entitled?" , 

[No. 6/38/70-LRtL] 



137 


SE* 5(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 


(«ttt wit OsnrtT fin ft) 

wtM 

fawfr, lOfcfFTT, 1970 

«*To wto 86— VdifoftiTFT'inTqft tft | fr *irft ttrs ft fftfftfw: 
fiwtf ft v^rrFrr vtaFrr ^h, ?tw: Tanr, fawr Sr sraFftpwft fits' 
ftlftWf tfk Td% TFTTrt % FW crv faqTC faFFTF 

vtx TF: %FftT FTFR TUT fa^OT qft FmfftofiTd % fftr f-TTf^TT TTdT TiT-flT 

FWfft I ; 

wrr:, m, tfafrfw fircrrer crfrfwr, i 947 ( 1947^1 14) ^Tfri 10 4ft twpt 
( r) *w°* (*r) iruT<m wfaerftf ftVt jq, fcdfta tr«stt ^t^irt fftw 
wrfVfWH srm 7-n % srcfrr Ffed %'jffa ftfr tfartfinr trf ir q, m t w a t 
mTfi»*FT fafftrcr *R(ft $ 1 


"W* 

‘ Vrr ftVWr *trtaNr <*h, »pp*r tutt, ftrar f4ftf % stttcFT tt ft 
%o % o v)t >TTo % o fftflrr, «i>r ftd, ft'rcr RRriTd Ftftrr 

TRl wft 6 WFHT, 1 969 ft ftr* 7rfwf ft tfk FtFd ftrtlr $ f*t- 
ft Tfrrfftd TRTT «TFTtf%{T FT ?F(ft Ft t 4>RT fro WFF>T % 
TT-RfR I ?" 


[ftSRT 6/38/70-^“ OTt> 2\ 

Meui Delhi, the lltH December 1670 

8.0. 87. — -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of North 
Tetulmari Colliery belonging to Tetulmari Colliery Company Limited. Post 
Office Sdjua (Dhanbad) ana their workmen in respect of the matters specified in 
the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 

dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 19471, the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, Constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

"Whether the action of the management of North Tetulmari Colliery 
belonging to ’Tetulmari Colliery Company, Post Office Sijua (Dha»- 
bad) in dismissing Shri Rambaran Singh, Fan Khalasi, with effect 
from the 14th February, 1970 was justified? If not, to what relied 
la the workman entitled T" 

[No. e/lS0l/7O-LR.Ill 


Tffowr, llfirF«rT,I97 v 

qrro Tfo 87. — tPTd : FUFR’tft TFT $ fip Rift TTIFS WffljpfV ft 

fWTTT %Vrt ft ftfpr^TtfiFTft Wfft frfftTT, YPRR fftrjOT (fW?) 4>> TFT 



138 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part IF 


% TTOTORT fTTTWf Tftc TOTTOTf % sW ^ffirtfw 

fTOR? fesiRTR t ; 

vVt TO: ffWR RTO feTOT T>TOT?T f^FT % fMffTOT TUTT SThB^FT 

TOTTcfl 

TOT :, WT, ?rWrpFF form RfsrfaRR, 1947 ( 1947 TO 14 ) 9 Tt 8 TRT 10 # 

wrom ( 1 ) % (r) tott wfwqr to spfFr ft*, ^rVq- tor 

TFT pTOK !F> TOT RfafTTR rV ErnT 7-T % RTlE trf&’T %TftT TOR sfeftfTOT R f spc y rr 
(#0 2), 1TTOT7 TO TOFlfTOTTO % fiTR MfTO ffiTcfr | I 

W^t 

"tot TORRrft jfRsft, totott ftrsjwT (kftw?) tor t ^ ~ tr t<V ^Ftron^ R T 

% wsr- RsT T?t «ft TTRTO7T 1%, RTO UTOlft 1 4 9R?rd, 1 970 % 
ffiTO TO TERrift TOTTIHR «fr ? Tf? ffiff, TO TOfcfiTT f%R 5FJTTW TO 
^totr | ? " 


[Ro 2/ 1 35/70TT 0 WTo 2] 

S. O. 88— .WHEREAS the Centrnl Government is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of Methani Colliery, Post Office Sitft- 
rampur, District Burdwan, of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited, and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

AND WHEREAS the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute fo* 
adjudication, 

NOW. THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of section to of the Industrial Disputes Act, J vd 7 (14 of 1947b the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Keeping in view the duties per formed by the following workmen, whether the management 
of Methani Colliery, Post Office Sitarampur, District Burdwan of Messrs Equitable 
Coal Companv Limited, is justified in refusing their claim for higher category and 
desination mentioned in column 4 against each under the recommendations of the 
Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry ? If not, to what relief are these workmen 

entitled and from what date ?”. 


SI. No. 

Name 


Present designation. 

Designation and 
category demanded. 

I 

2 


3 

4 

1. 

2. 

3‘ 

Shri Saved. 

Shri Rasul. 

Shri Gayanandra. 

• 

. Fitter (Category V) 

F itter (Category V) 
LampMazdoor 
(Category I) 

Fitter (Category VI} 
Fitter (Category VI) 
Lamp clearing Maz- 
door (Category ID 


[No. 1/33/70-LR. II] 

TOo Wo 88- 9R1 RTTOTqft TTR | TOTTTO ?f fafr- 

fecj fRTTt % TTT it ffi TR tfTO^TOT TON TOTTt fMiTTT TO 3*lFft TOW WFf *IW 


^TOTTTRTV, fTOTT % ST RRTT R TOTOJ fTOTOTO TfR TOT% TOfTOTf % ^T 

fwiK fronrnr | ; 


SBC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 13 ^ 


X W %Brfo gPETL gw foTPI Tit WTgFg#FT % fgffod TRdT 

?rtwfK ggsfot $ ; 

HTT:, TR, whftrfTT forts; ^fafog, 1947 (l947 W 14 ) 9TTT 10 
•ft Tnrm ( 1 ) % (t) jttt arr gfofor w g<m wfr jfo %grVg gwi gw- 

irt gw fong Tit gfgforg *fvV am 7 -t % min gfw %gfrg aim srforfog 
wforrwr, wwrr Tit PiTgfotor % fog faffgg gfor | i 

"WT fgcTfofod wfofo ffRT Tft 5TT Tfl Ylffo fo sqTd it Tgg efo 
gg(f %for£g g TTtW TTPFft, fofg£& ^t forfo fom 3FT, «TWR 
grengrgji, fogr g£grg % g^ggg w Titan wg gsftg % fog gg?fo 

at# Tit fgqsifoff % gtffo a?% % <rm PRg 4 a gforfog 
ait ati twtt % gg% art nt a nan ?aratfw | ? gfc aft, at a 
wfara fog iFjata % ?raR | sflg fog arffo g ?” 


*g 

gvn 

grg 

gefgTg wgrg 

TTdTg gfo tit ffofoY 
gfg grt gf | i 

t 

2 

3 

4 

l 

Tf f W 

, foil (tW'f 5) 

fogg (gw' e) 

2 

«T( 'ITT 

, fosr (iW>f 5) 

fo<Tf (gg.f 6) 

3 

Ti UTTPiT 

. gwgfop: (gif 1 

) gw gw^ 

(gpf 2 ) 


[g» 1/33/7 o-^ao ara^ 2] 

S O. 89 — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Pootkee 
Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited, Post Office Kusunda, 
District Dhanlbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2), Dhanbad, constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act. 


Schedule 

"Whether the action of the management of Pootkee Colliery of Messrs 
BhowTa Kankanee Collieries Limited, Post Office Kusunda, District 
Dhanbad was justified in refusing work to Shri Sharfuddin, Electric 
Fitter with effect from the 12th September, 1969? If not, to what 
relief is the workman concerned entitled?” 


[No. 2/26/70-LR.II,] 






THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part «— 


1 40 


fr° wto 9 9 : — tt: gram ft tr 1 ff ^gir ytit? t fqfgfcw 

from % srrt # ifgtf tfVn f f r-fr ftfgqftf fgfggg, st w: j^st, fggi gggni ft 

l jT# ftfgTfrg % WRW % fagfaf f glT gg% fiffltf % «ft^ t^f gtftfgf 

ftrtTRT'T ^ ; 

^ Tar: gwr< gw fggrc ft rtt fa#w % fag fggfgg fW 

groffa ggggt | ; 

’tier:, *r, gt«ftfw fwpr gfgfgqg, 1947 ( 1947 W 14 } <t «tkt lotft 
gigru (1) % fog (g) ircr ggg wfwgt fT ggtg vt& 3%, ^rftr grfrg <$g*- 
m gw fwTT ft gw gfgfgqg ft 3RT 7-f % twrg gfog fBftg grfR gtaftfnf 
*T fiffTf (rfo 2), TPRTg ft RTTfgoRq % fg*t fg?foRT fTtft | ? 

"fTT tTtt f f rsft ftfanrftf fgflRg, itttt $g^r, fferqr gggrc ¥t 
jrfr ftwr f rg, jrr g'sr fTr *fr w$(nr, fhmr fvzi ft 1 2 fggRV 
1 969 it fW 7 T ^fR f^- Tft fpfrrjft RTPTtfw «ft ? gfe g#t, 
ft gwfarg WffR fwft f^ftf fT ffTR $ ?” 

[go 2/26/70-r?fo 2] 

8 . 0 , 9#. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 
Bhankarpur Colliery of Messrs Ukhra Minerals Private Limited, Post Office 
Ukhra, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
u the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
-dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Shahkarpur Colliery of Messrs Ukhra 
Mlneral s Private Limited, Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwam was 
justified in dismissing Shrl Kanta Harijan, Piekminer from the 10th 
May, 19707 If not, to what relief is the workman entitled?’’ 

[No. 8/61/70-LR.II.] 

f To wr° so : — w: %gftT gwR qft tpt | ff ggfr ggrarr stgiffr «t 
fafgfrR fWTT if Tit if TTff TfTT fTTOTT JTTSff ST fgfgcg, Slwn;, g*j7;T fagT aRTR 
ft wfTjr ftwrr f nr % ?r fgqtfft tfk gg% wtfRf % #W <Tf 

dNrrfTf fwrc fawg t ; 

ftr w: trgfta BTfR gw ffTR ft rcnq-fg^w % f ; w fg?ftrg wgr giw-ftg 

ggfpft ^ t 

gg:, sr, wtsftfTf fwre gfgfggg, 1947 ( 1 94 7 w 14) ¥t strt 1 0 qfr gg- 

WRT ( l) % for (g) 3TTT 5RrT ffggTT fT JTTtT WSt fT, %gftq BThTT T^TTTTTTT 

gw ffTTT ft gw 7ft trirr 7 -f % Ttftg nfeg sftatfrf wfgf • rt, wrf itr 

•ft RRfgjfw % %T fgfftr g kYcfr | 1 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 14 1, 


"TTr YTTT faVRtfff SfEjfc faforis, STTTT, SflTTI, fWT Sf? <r TTET- 

1 T TfTqr uet % sttpl-tt tt «ff wt ^gr, fownprr *rr 19 *r$, 

1970 t{ leut TT-rr «nrrfsTT m ? 

tFt q-ff, cfr YiferT fv-r sEfafa tpr stfttt | ? ’’ 

[*To 8/5l/7 0-^Uo SfKo 2 ] 

S.O. 91. — Whereais the Central Government is of opinion that an Industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankola 
Colliery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Company Limited, Post Office Ukhra, District 
Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matter* specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government herebyl refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether in view of the nature of duties performed by Shri Sudhir Roy, 
Shale Picker, the management of Bankola Colliery of Messra Bur- 
rakur Coal Company Limited, Post Office Ukhra, District Burdwa* 
is justified in not designating him as loading Supervisor? If not, 
to what relief is the workman entitled and from what date?" 

[No. S/44/70-LR.II.J 

*To WTo 91 : — iTcT: TET t fa ’Slfa 3TH3 if faff 

h-e % <4 1 F if 4 r 7T < t>fa fa Pm ^ T, YTYTT < 1 , faHT 

if TUI® <. 't'H't'l Of 

ftw famr firaWET <£; 

3RT: ^ifar TqElftWT * far[ foTHfET ffTETT 

HHWiH t ; 

IRT:, Wf, fffTTT 1947 ( 1947 W 14) tfTU 10 

tottt ( 1 ) ^ («r) iru jku Tifaurf ^ setet *5uf ^sftr bueiT 

ITTT 3RET faTPT «Pt T^T S T faPbUl tfT tTTCT 7-*fl % mffa sffatfap STFsTTE*, 

WE1T afft ?HRrfaWT % fair farfaff $ I 

"<PTT Tjtfk TET ijfafm 5TCT q?T iff ghfeiff qft TT^fa KTET if 

*pfa UTTUrfr fafajs, TTT^T T*3TT fasR ^TET jfvfaT 
TitTHT UET % M"H r HriU ^TT Etf <^IEf ’E^SEP 'TI'flfHd *T 

$ ? sfc 1$, ?ft TnTETT fau *EJd>f ET % tftT fa* 
cTTffa if ?" 


[Ro 6/44/70-^0 STTTo 3j 



142 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Pakt H— 


S.O. 92. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Goenka 
Kajora Colliery and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1047 (14 of If 47), the 
flentral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
iidustrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

Schedule 

“Whether the management of Goenka Kajora Colliery of Messrs Goenka 
Coal Company, Post Office Ukhra, District Bnrdwan was justified 
in stopping from work Sarvashri Nageswar Prasad and Satanlal, 
Gope, Coal Cutting Machine Drivers and Dukhan Thakur, Coal 
Cutting Machine Mazdoor from the 17th April, 1970? If not, to 
what relief these workmen are entitled?" 

[No. G/41/70-LR.1I.1 

Wo wr° 92 - — tit I % 

^ Jr ifETTT wfm YETcTT ifFT $ SPFSfcicf % *T^ 

WEnff % TT^ tcl«tf J RT fam t ; 

«ftr BTrT : ITOTT fwr w % fHT fMffSTrT WriT TTTFftT 

urowfr t ; 

m:, p, nWtfw fsrrr? wferfH^nr, 1947 ( 1947 m 14) *Ft tsrrrr 10 «pt 
tori ( 1 ) % twit (n) srt sr?rr ?rf*EErf tt Tft»r g3r, wfEr etwt T^fficr 
gTRf TEt TJIF ^rftl PiNH STHT 7-®F % Watfi fifcFI tfteftfw NfaHTN, WIWT 

"WT PTW fiEPFT Wu impfi, tfi+tR ! 3TITT, faW TddTd Tt diTTIT Tdtu 
WW NPT % ST^SPT^C W TETNt SETT* Sift TETT NET dtr, 

WvH i wpt irrftd fiTHW sfrr: jtset sifT yEett i:rFT FifET *pr^: 
fTf 17 W, 1970 TT WP TT! 7 TWIT Tdl^lfdd «?T ? Tf* d|f, dt ^ 
WTTKfWT ’Tddtd % iWTT? f ” 

[io 6/41/7 0 -TTHo WTo-Z] 
New Delhi, the 17th December 197O 

S.O. 93. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
•dispute exists between the employers In relation to the management of Bhulah- 
paree Colliery of Messrs Bhulanbaree Coal Company Limited, Post Office FathordiW 
District Dhanbad and their workmen In respect of the matters specified in the 
Scheddule hereto annexed; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section 
0.) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 ot 1947) the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, (No, 2) Dhanbad constituted under section 7A 
Of the said Act- 

Schedule 

“Having regard to the nature of job performed by the following workmen 
of Bhulanbaree Colliery of Messrs Bhulanbaree Coal Company 



SEC. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 143 


Limited, Post Office Patherdihi, District Dhanbad, whether the claim 
of the said workmen for Category IV as per the Central Coal Wage 
Board Recommendations U justified ? If so, J j what relief are these 
workmen entitled and from what date?” 


8. No. Name 0 / the wqi kmev 

1, Sri Krishna Pada Mahate. 

8. Sri Gondogol Digar. 

3. Sri Dubraj Mahato. 

4. Sri Panchanon Mahato. 

6. Sri Umashankar Singk. 
g. Sri Jhlngur Tell. 

7. Sri Mohan Teli. 

8. Shri Seopujon Gope. 

0. Sri Hukam Turi. 

10. Sri Gopal Teli. 

11. Sri Duriodhan Mahato. 

12. Sri Haripada Bouri. 

[No. 2/130'70-LRIU 
KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 

df f^fl, 17 tol, 1970 

WJo WTo 93 — OTRIJ t ftfafiTOI 

% arrt # jhrt E/tdursY «iriEr RtPiSt, steer firNT perk & 

"likHraTS- % sftr Enrrnit % afK 

tfhr TcT: %EfR ETfilT TW fadEI % fop ftfftlE YTET nmtfw 

lortnft 

SET, m, f^TR *rfyfdEE, 1947 ( 1947 TT 14) "pV KTR1 10 4?t 

Wet ( 1 ) % ( n ) 3T7J eept irrfEpEfi ti teW gp, %e!Yii etytt <i w 

^ SrfafapE ETC! 7-«F % wVe »rf3E ETTTT wVhYPtF EftRTTPI 

(tf* 2), STEER Eft t 

WPC* 

"^TEE WddTVt fafory, TPFET %ST tT-NTR WHdETfl 

Er’lEETPSTR % Pi*-nfrinad 'PH'mOt ski f%p ET YEf N?I WIT* T Vflrl 

fp, Edd TPTTTt EN^T Et* yV fETJTfWr % EpETT 

w 4 tt arrrr tETiftfrrr 5 ? fcE 

t Eft %k difto ?r ? ,f ' 


W YETR TT ETE 

wwr 


1 sfrfror Egeft 

2 ift flftsftlN fftTY 

3 #|«RI5r Egfft 

4 Nt 'Vdldd Efftt 



144 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part ■— 


▼iwn 4 i' 4+T<' Tf STITT 


5 

6 sftfifWT (fcft 

a 

7 

8 «ft fiii 4^^ *ftr 

9 iffjW 

i o «fr #tt*t iMV 

ii R^?rt 

12 srtgfm *fttr 


[?io 2/ 1 3 o/ 70— C^O HTT* 2] 

f%5, w nf** i 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 23 rd December 1970 

S.O. 94. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1M4 (.It 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award Of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, In the Industrial dispute between 
the employers In relation to the management of Messrs Sesa Goa (Private) limited 
and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on MM flint 
December, 1970. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, BOMBAY. 

Reference No. GCIT-12 of 1967 


Partus : 

Employers in relation to the management of Sesa Goa (Private) Ltd.. 

AND 

their workmen 


Pmmknv: 

Shrl A. T. Zambve — Presiding Officer. 


Appearances . 

For the employers . — Shrl P. K. Rele, Solicitor, 

Tor the tvarkmen . — Shri Madan Phadnis, Advocate instructed by Shrl GeWge 
Vaz, General Secretary, Goa Mining and Labour Welfare Union. 

State: Union Territory ol‘ Goa. Industry: Iron Ore Mining. 

Bombay, dated 28th November, 1970 


AWARD 

The Government of India, Ministry of Labour Employment and RebsbillUttwi, 
Department of Labour and Employment, have by their order No. 24/10/«T4LdU 
dated 16th May. 1967, referred to this Tribunal for adjudication an indiutrfal 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the management of Ufa. 
Sesa Goa (Private) Ltd., and their workmen in respect of the matters apecitlea 
(n the following schedule: — 


flCHXBUDl 

1. Whether M/s. Sesa Goa (Private) Ltd., are justified in dismissing the services 
•1 Shrl Avito D’souza working as an auto-mechanic In the Sireaim workshop With 
effect from 27th December, 1963? 





JUOj l H UAn im OP INDIA: JANUARY 1, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 145 


2, If not, to what relief Is he entitled?” 


2. The Circumstances giving rise to this dispute and the reference may be 
stated in brief as follows: — 

The employers M/s. Sesa Goa (Private) Ltd., are producers and exporters 
of iron ore and own an Iron ore mine at Sircaim. The workman Shrl 
Avito D'souza was in their employ since 1060 and was working m a 
motor mechanic at their Sircaim garage workshop which was in 
charge of one Shri A. Conzen who was the Superintendent responsible 
for the running and maintenance of the workshop. On the 26th 
November, 1062, the Police raided the house of the workman and found 
several automobile parts which were identified as belonging to the 
company. The police attached the parts and tools and arrested the 
workman and as the too’s were identified to be belonging to the com- 
pany proceeded against him in a criminal Court- 


3. The workman remained absent from Duty from 27th November, 19G3, with- 
out any intimation or authorization from the company. Ke was handling the tools 
in the workshop, They were missing and were found In his house and hence the 
company charge-sheeted him for the misconduct of theft and for his absence fiom 
work without permission and a departmental enquiry was held in which the enquiry 
Officer found him guilty of the two misconducts and the company dismissed him 
from service with effect from 27th December, 1963. On his dismissal the work- 
man approached the Goa Mining Labour Welfare Union which by its letter dated 
20th January, 1964, raised an industrial dispute. The Assistant Labour Commis- 
sioner (Central) Vasco-da-Gama held conciliation proceedings. As the criminal 
case against the workman was pending in the Court of the Judicial Magistrate 
both the parties agreed to close the ease pending the decision by the Judicial 
Magistrate. First Class and it was agreed that the union should file a fresh dis- 
pute after the decision the Criminal Court. The case was finally decided by the 
Sessions Court Goa, Panjim on 11th March, I960, The Sessions Judge In the 
appeal set aside the sentence passed against Shri D’souza and acquitted him of the 
offence of theft. Thereafter the General Secretary of the Goa Mining Labour 
Welfare Union raised a dlsnute again. The A.L.C. (Central) Vasco-da-Gama held 
conciliation proceedings but the dispute could not be settled and hence after his 
failure report the dispute was referred to this Tribunal as stated above. 


4 The union by its statement of claim has alleged that on the 26th November, 
1963 on the false allegations made by the officer of the company the police officer 
attached the automobile parts and tools from the house of the workman Shri Auito 
D’souza and arrested him and kept him in custody upto 4th December, 1963. The 
workman was also ill and could not attend to duty. Accordingly he had informed 
the company about his inability. Regarding the charge of theft he has alleged 
that he did not commit any theft and had denied the offence levelled against him. 
He has contended that the articles attached from his house were given to him as 
a gift by his Kuwait employer and they belonged to him, He was also acquitted 
by the Sessions Judge and was quite innocent. But the domestice enquiry held 
by the company against him was not fair. The company had not followed the 
principles of natural justice. No opportunity was given to him to crc syexam|ne 
the witnesses. The enquiry officer was biassed, There was no : dependent 
evidence and the dismissal was the result of victimization and vindictive atti u 
as he was connected with trade union activities, The union has alleged that ■ th - 
dismissal is unjustified and the same should be set aside and he should be rein- 
stated. 

5. The company has by Its written statement and rejoinder opposed the refer- 
ence first on technical pleas that this was an individual dispute and it had not 
assumed the character of an Industrial dispute. The employees of the company 
were not members of the union and the dispute has not also been sponsored by a 
Substantial number of its employees. Regarding the ^ 

denied the allegations that it had filed a complaint against the workman to the 
police but he has contended that one person by name Eernado was found by the 
Police selling valuable parts of automobile In the Mapuca market and questioning 
him how he possessed the articles and getting information ^from ktm ye Police 
took the workman into custody and went with him to the officer ox the compa y 
and requested the officer to accompany Mm to the residence of the workman where 
the Police conducted a search and attached a large number of autumn 1 ‘ u rw 
and tools and finally prosecuted Mm In the Court of 

Class. The employers have contended f bet the Judicial Magistrate J ir !* Class n ^ f 
in fact found the workman guilty of offence of misconduct of theft Ofthe 

company’s property but the workman was acquitted in appea y 



146 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II— 


court on technical considerations and irregularity in the procedure. The enquiry 
was quite fair. The workman had taken part in the enquiry. Every opportunity 
was given to him. There was independent evidence before the enquiry officer. 
He found him guilty of the two charges and the order of dismissal was justified. 

6 . In support of their contention the union has examined its General Sec.etary 
and has produced some documents to show that the company had dismissed some 
persons in the year 1902 when there was a strike. The union has also examined 
the workman Shri Avlto D’Souza and his wife Mrs. Magdalene D'Souza. The 
company has examined the enquiry officer Shri Naik and has also produced the 
papers of the enquiry and I shall first discuss the technical pleas. 

7. The union’s General Secretary Shri Vaz has stated that he came to Goa 
after liberation and was approached by the workers of Sesa Goa and requested to 
form a union. He held a meeting and an ad hoc committee was formed. He him- 
self was the President. He has further stated in June, or July, 19G2, the workers 
had made demands to the company for waiting charges. There was a strike and 
demonstrations and the workers were threatened by the company with dismissal 
and actually some of them were dismissed. He was arrested at the time of Chinese 
aggression and when he came back he learned that the workman Shri Avlto 
D’Souza was under arrest and so he had gone to the Mapusa Police Station to 
make enquiries, and after the dismissal he had raised an industrial dispute in 
1964 and at that time Shri Nalk had attended the conciliation on behalf of the 
company. 

8 . The evidence of the General Secretary Shri Vaz clearly prove that the 
employees of the company were the members of the Goa Mining Labour Welfare 
Union and he has raised the dispute and I do not find any substance in the conten- 
tion that the employees of the company were not the members of the Union. It 
is true that the union has not produced the resolution by which the dispute was 
sponsored. However, it is clear from the failure report and other documents 
received along with the order of reference that the employers had not raised any 
contention before the Conciliation Officer that the dispute was not raised proper- 
ly by the union. While stating the facts I have already mentioned that Police 
had ’filed a complaint against the workman before the Judicial Magistrate First 
Class and at the time of the conciliation both the parties agreed to close the case. 
The papers which were -,ent along with the reference order contain the cop;, of 
the agreement about closing the case. This agreement shows that Shri Naik the 
management witness who was the Labour Officer of the company was represent- 
ing the company and the union was represented by Shri Vaz. According to the 
terms of the settlement the union had agreed not to press the demand and was 
free to take up the dispute as a fresh one afterwards. The very fact that the 
company had signed the agreement with the union shows that they had accepted 
the position of the union as the representative union of the workers. The dispute 
regarding the dismissal of the workman was raised by the union. It is an In- 
dustrial dispute and this Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to deal with it. 

9. The learned Counsel Shri Madan Phadnis for the union has argued that 
because the workman had taken part in the strike and demonstrations in the year 
1982 he was threatened and his dismissal is the result of the vindictive attitude 
of the company as he was taking part in the union activities. It has been lrrther 
contended that the company had filed a complaint against the workman and had 
victimized him. However, considering the enquiry papers and the statement of 
the workman himself T do not find any substance In this contention. The workman 
who has been examined has admitted the correctness of his statement before the 
enquiry officer except two sentences and it is clear from his statement that the 
company had not initiated the criminal proceedings against him. He has stated:' — 

“Q. Did the police come to your place on the 26th November at night? 

As. Yes- One police, and one boy, by name Barnnad to iny place. 

Q. What happened afterwards? 

As. They tpld me to come to the police station. Accordingly I went with 
them. There the police inspector showed me a list containing some 
automobile parts and asked me if I had given them to Barnnad to 
sell to which I admitted. Then they took me to Tlvim and picked 
M/s. Conzen and Altrus Meyer, Officials of the company and all went 
to my place then police searched my house and removed all the 
spare automobile parts lying in my house.” 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THt UAZtiTF OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 147 


This statement of the workman clearly supports th e company is case that the 
workman was arrested on the basis of the statement of one person Barnnad to 
whom hg had given the articles for disposal and the present version that the 
company had filed a criminal complaint against him cannot be accepted, 

10. The learned Counsel has further argued that the enquiry held aguinst 
the workman was not fair. He was not given an opportunity and the manage- 
ment has violated the principles of natural justice. It is clear from the record 
that the charge-sheet dated 6 th December, 1963 was issued to the Workman. The 
charge-sheet clearly stated that while his house wa s raided by the police he was 
found in possession of the materials belonging to the company and further that 
he had absented himself from duty without any intimation. He had also given 
an explanation and afterwards an enquiry was held against him on the 14th 
December, 1963, He was to attend the enquiry at 10 A.M. but us he did not 
come the enquiry officer examined the company’s witness Shri Conzen and re- 
corded his statement. The workman went to the enquiry officer at abopt 11.30 a-m. 
when the company’s witnesses had left. The workman requested the enquiry offi- 
cer to allow him to take part In the enquiry. Thereupon the enquiry officer 
explained to him that the examination of the company’s witness was over and 
he had left and It would not be possible to call him back immediately. But the 
workman requested him that he should be examined alone and his evidence should 
be recorded and thereupon the enquiry officer examined him. The enquiry offi- 
cer had specifically asked him whether he wanted to cross-examine the com- 
pany's witness to which the workman had stated that he did not want to cross- 
examine Shri Copzen and there Is no substance in the Union’s contention that 
the workman was not given an opportunity to cross-examine the witness. 

11. Regarding the contention that there was no evidence before Enquiry Offi- 
cer. I have already stated that the workman has admitted before me that his 
statement except two sentences is correct. He has stated: — 

“The enquiry before Shri Naik was fixed at 10 a.m. It Is correct to say 
that I attended the enquiry office and went to him at about 11-30 a.m- 
I did not meet the Enquiry Officer on that day before 11-30 am. 
After I saw the Enquiry Officer he told me that the statement of 
Shri Conzen was recorded and he had left. 

* + # * • * * 

The Enquiry Officer recorded my statement. He asked me certain questions. 
My whole statement before the Enquiry Officer is read out now, there 
are two sentences which are in correctly recorded-” 

Shri Con/en has stated before the Enquiry Officer that he saw many automobile 
spare parts at the residence of the accused; 

“I saw many automobile spare parts and identified them a s belonging to 
the company and told the police accordingly.” 

It has also come In evidence that the company prepared every year a list of 
missing tools of the workshop and Shri Conzen has produced the list before the 
enquiry officer. The list included many articles which were shown under tick 
mark as missing and they are found in the house of D’Souza. He has further 
stated that the Mechanical Jack (Faun) and Oil Jack Cima were possessed 
only by the company. He was not cross-examined. The enquiry officer had be- 
lieved his evidence and the contention now raised that there was no evidence 
before the enquiry officer is not well founded. 

12. It was further contended that though th e Judicial Magistrate, First Class 
had convicted the workman of the offence of theft of the tools the Sessions Court 
had acquitted him and this proved that he had not committed the theft. I do 
not think that the acquittal of th e workman will come In the way pf the manage- 
ment^or will entitle the workman to get the result of the findings of the domestic 
enquiry set aside. The management has produced the copies of the judgment of 
thp Judicial Magistrate and also a copy of the judgment of the Appellate Court 
and it is clear that the Sessions Judge has acquitted the workman on technical 
ground--. It appears that before the trial Magistrate one prosecution witness was 
examined after the defence statement of the accused and the prosecution had 
closed its case The learned Judge has observed: — 

“The examination of this prosecution witness after the written statement 
of the appellate was filed which statement appears to have been 
made in lieu of the examination of the appellant under Section 342 
of the Criminal Procedure Code and after all the defence witnesses 
have been examined must have prejudiced the appellant and more 



so because the appellant was not examined under section 342 o f the 
Criminal Procedure Code." 

The Judicial Magistrate had held that the mechanical jack was proved to be 
belonging to the Sesa Goa Private Ltd., because of the list o f machine tools etc., 
but according to the Appellate Court the list were not proved. The learned Judge 
has observed: — - 

“Coming to the point (b) of paragraph 9 namely that the mechanical jack 

was found missing by Sesa Goa it appears that the fact was consi- 

dered as proved by the learned Magistrate because of certain lists 
missing tools of Sesa Goa. The lists have not been duly proved and 
probably it is for that reason the learned Magistrate placed them in 
file 2” 

In the result the learned Session Judge observed that the prosecution had failed 
to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant had committed the offence. 
Thus It is clear that the appellant was acquitted because of benefit of doubt and 
the circumstance that the workman was acquitted in the appellate Court will not 
be sufficient to prove that findings of the enquiry officer are perverse Shri Rele 
the learned Counsel on behalf of the management has argued that in a domestic 
enquiry the tribunal has to see only if a prima facie case has been made out. 
The standard of proof in a domestic enquiry is not the same as in a criminal 
trial. The learned Counsel has relied upon the ruling reported in 1959, II, LU, 

page 245— Balipura Tea Estate — in which it has been observed that a tribunal 

could not insist upon conclusive proof of guilt. The learned Counsel has also in- 
vited my attention to the ruling reported in 1970, I,LLJ, 718 in which it has been 
observed : 

"The judgement of a criminal Court acquitting an accused on the merits of 
a case would not bar disciplinary proceedings against him on the 
basis of the same facts. The reason is that the criminal Court re- 
quired a high standard of proof for convincing the accused. Such 
a standard of proof is not required in disciplinary proceedings.” 

These observations clearly support the management. It cannot be ignored that 
the purpose of the domestic enquiry is quite different from that of a criminal trial 
and merely because the workman is acquitted the decision of the domestic enquiry 
cannot be set aside. 


14. Shri Madah Phadnis on behalf of the union has further argued that the 
management knew that the criminal case for the offence of theft of the company’s 
property was pending before the Magistrate and it wag not proper on their part 
to hold the enquiry, and the enquiry ought to have been stayed and the manage- 
ment ought to have waited till the result of th e criminal case. The learned Coun- 
sel has relied upon the ruling reported In 1900 1LLJ page 520 Delhi Cloth and 
General V. Kushal Bhan Mills and 1904 II I/LJ 113 fTata Oil Mills Company Ltd., 
and its workmen by the Tata Oil Mills Workers’ Union. Ernakulam & another). 
In the second ruling their Lordships have quoted the observations in their first 
ruling and observed: — 

"As held in Delhi Cloth and General Mills Ltd. V. Kushal Bhan (1960 1 
LLJ 520) it Is desirable that if the incident giving rise to a charge 
framed against a workman in a domestic enquiry is being tried in 
a criminal court the employer should stay the domestic enquiry pen- 
ding the final disposal of the criminal case. It would be particularly 
appropriate to adopt such a course where the charge against the 
workman Is of a grave character because In such a case it would be 
unfair to compel the workman to disclose the defence which he may 
take before the criminal court. But to say that domestic enquiries 
may he stayed pending criminal trial Is very different from saying 
that If an employer proceeds with the domestic enquiry In spite of 
the fact that the criminal trial Is pending the enquiry for that reason 
alone Is vitiated and the conclusion reached In such an enquiry Is 
either had in law or mala fide.’’ 


I do not think that this ruling will help the union. The workman was charged 
for the offence of theft. Admittedly he was in possession of the property, lhe 
defence of the workman was that the property belonged to him. There is no 
question of the defence of the workman being prejudiced and the enquiry being: 
vitiated and the order of dismissal being bad on that account. 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 149 


15. Shri Phadnls on behalf of the union has further argued that the workman 
was also charged fo rthe misconduct of a absenting himself from duty without 
inltimation and authorization from the management. The company had no stand- 
ing orders nor were there any service rules and under the circumstances remain- 
ing absent without authorization was not misconduct and the workman could 
not have been charged for his absence and the order is Illegal. 


16. The incident took place in the month of November, 1963. Shri Nalk the 
company's witness has stated that th e Standing Orders Act was made applicable 
to Goa in the year 1964 and the management had sent a draft of standing orders 
for pproval and certification of the certifying officer and it shall have to be 
accepted that there were no standing orders at the time when +1 "e enquiry was 
held. However, I do not think that this circumstance will render the order of 
dismissal illegal. The workman was arrested by the Police and remained absent. 
The management had not suspended him and it was expected of him as per his 
service contract to attend to duty during the period of service. It Is not In 
dispute that the workman had remained absent from 27th November. 1063 till 
he was dismissed. It is true that the police had arrested him on the 27th Novem- 
ber, 1963 but it has come in evidence that he was released on the 4th December, 
1963 and he ought to have made an application for leave if there was any valid 
reason. His absent after release on bail has not been explained by him. ine 
Enquiry Officer has disbelieved his story that h e was unwell and the circumstances 
indicate that the workman did not report for duty because of the incident. 


“It 


17, The learned Counsel has invited my attention to the ruling reported in 
1963 II LLJ page 038 (Buckingham and Carnatic Co. Ltd., and Venkatayya and 
another) in which the following observations have been made: — 

is true theft under common law the inference that an employee has 
abandoned or relinquished service is not easily drawn unless from 
the length of absence and from other surrounding circumstances an 
inference to that effect can be legitimately drawn and it can oe 
assumed that the employee intended to abandon service. Abandon- 
ment or relinquishment of service is always a question of intention, 
and normally such an intention cannot be attributed to an employee 
without adequate evidence in that behalf. But where parties agree 
upon the terms and conditions of service and they are included in 
certified standing orders the doctrines of common law and consi- 
derations of equity would not be relevant. It is then a matter of 
construing the relevant terms itself. Hence under the first part of 
the relevant standing order an employee remaining absent for eight 
consecutive days without leave shall be deemed to have terminated 
his contract of service and thus relinquished or abandoned Ms 
employment.” 


18. I do not think that this ruling requires a written standing order for 
treating absence on duty as a misconduct. The ruling merely says that when 
there is a standing order it is not necessary to decide the Intention of the 
employee whether he has abandoned service or not and then it is only a question 
of the construction of the standing order, The learned Counsel has not shown me 
any ruling that without a written standing order absence from duty cannot be 
treated as misconduct. In my opinion any conduct or any act of the employee 
■which renders him unfit for the employment or shows his bad conduct will be 
misconduct. It l s the duty of every employee to attend regularly to his work 
and if a person does not attend to his work it is a dereliction of duty it is a 
bad conduct and this action in not attending duty can be treated as misconduct 


19. The evidence clearly shows that the management had held a proper 
enquiry. Every opportunity was given to the workman to meet the case There 
Is n 0 violation of the principles of natural justice nor is there any victimization 
or ttuiIcl fictes, There is no ground to interfere with the order and the employers 
are justified In dismissing the workman and he is not entitled to anv relief 
Hence my award accordingly. 

No order as to costs. 


(Sd.) A. T. Zajmbre, 
Presiding Officer, 

Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay. 

[No. 24/10/ 67-LR-I (LR-IV) ] 

p. r 



150 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New, . Delhi , the 24 th December 1970 

S.O. 95.— In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(.47 of 1947), Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Management of Messrs P. Devarajooloo Naldu & Son, Madras-1 
and their workmen, which was received by the Central Government on the 15th 
December, 1970. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL. TRIBUNAL. MADRAS 
Wednesday , the 2tul day of December , 1970 

Present : 

Thiru S. Swamikkannu, B. Sc., M.L., Industrial Tribunal. 

Industrial Dispute No. 2 of 1970 

(In the matter of the dispute for adjudication u/s 10(1) (d) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, between the workmen and the management of M/s. P. 
Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madras). 

Between; 

The president. P. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Employees Union, No. 11,. 
Philips Street, Madras-1. 

And 

M/s. P. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, No, 24, North Beach Road, Madras-1. 
Reference 

Order No. 29/60/69-Fac. II, dated 22nd, December, 1969 of the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment), Government of India, New Delhi. 

This dispute coming on this day for final disposal upon perusing the reference. 
Claim and Counter Statements and all other material papers on record and upon 
hearing the arguments of Thiru valar gal, B. R, Dolia and A. T„ Somayaji, Advocates 
appearing for the union and of Thiruvalnrgal M. R. Narayansvvamy and R. Sam- 
pathkumar, Advocates appearing for the Management and the parties having 
filed a joint memorandum ol settlement and this Tribunal recording the same, 
made the following. 

AWARD 

This is an industrial dispute between the employers in rc-Vtion to the Manage- 
ment of M/s. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madras-1 and their workmen referred 
in Order of Government of India, Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabili- 
tation (Department of Labour and Employment) New Delhi, dated 22-12-1969 in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedue hereunder: 

“1. Whether the management of M/s. P. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madras- 1 
are paying Dearness Allowance to the monthly paid office staff em- 
ployed by them according to the recommendations of the Wage Board 
appointed under Government of India’s Resolution No. W.B.-21 (4) /64 
dated 13th November 1964 and if not what is the relief to which the 
workers are entitled and from which date ? 

2. Is the existing structure regarding designation and classification of the 

monthly paid staff by the Management of M/s. P. Devarajooloo Naidu 
& Son, Madras-1 satisfactory? If not, what should be the proper 
designation and classification and from which date should it be 
effective? 

3. What should be the seniority of the monthly paid staff employed by 

M/s, P. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madras-1 and from which date 
should the seniority take effect. 

4. Whether the management of M/s. P. Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madras-1 

are justified in paying bonus for the years 1966-67 and 1968 at the 
rate of 4 per cent to its employee? If not, what should be the quan- 
tum of bonus and from which date should it be paid? 

5. Whether the management are justified in paying only 61 per cent as 

Provident Fund Contribution to their staff? If not, what should be 
the rate of contribution?” 

2, The claimant un’on filed a Claim Statement on 14th February 1970 putting 
forth its case, 

3. The respondent management filed their counter statement denying the 
allegations in the dispute, on 5th March 1970. 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 151 


4, Both the paities to the dispute are present, Memorandum of settlement 
filed. It is recorded so fsr as it relates to the subject matter of the reference. 
An award is passed in terms of settlement. Tlic terms of settlement will form 
part of the award. 

(Sd.) S. Swamikkannu, 

Industrial Tribunal. 

Memorandum of Settlement 

Memorandum of settlement entered into between the Workmen of Messrs P. 
Devarajooloo Nuidu & Son reported by the President P. D. N. & Son Employees 
Union and the Management of P, Devarajooloo Naldu A- d-+ed 30th November 
1970. 

The workmen represented by -S. M. N irayanan, President, P.D.N. & Son 
Employees’ Union, 

The management represented by— p. Gopalarathnam, Partner, M/s. P. 
Devarajooloo Naidu & Son, Madias. 

Whcieas the parties above named had discussions and negotiations on 24-8-1970 in 
regard to disputes between the two and whereas certain of the said items of disputes 
are matters pending adjudication before the (Central Government) Industrial 
Tribunal Madra- in I. D. 2 of 1970 and whereas the parties have met and agreed 
and arrived at conclusion regarding the demands which are in dispute. 

Now this settlement witnesseth as follows: — 

1 . The management agrees to pay dearness allowance as claimed by the work- 
men in I.D, No. 2 of 1970 in accordance with the Wage Board Recommendations 
with effect from 1-10-1964, to all their workmen excepting the following work- 
men whose claim for the Central Wage Board Recommendations has been referr- 
ed to an arbitrator. 

1. Appavoo. 

2. Ad .moolam 

3. Balaram. 

4. Vein. 

5. Vella i. 

2 . Tile management agrees to contribute provident fund at the rate of 8-1/3 
per cent in case of all the workmen with effect from 1-9-1970. 

3. It i- agreed between the parties that the designation of employees now 
existing should continue as, per Annexure I, and the management agrees to rc- 
ckone the apriority of the employees as per the list attached hereto ss Annexure 
II. The seniority for the purpose of promotion and other benefits will be reckoned 
on the basis of the number of years of service put in by each employee in a parti- 
cular category and for purposes of retrenchment in case effected at a future date, 
the entire servicee put in the organisation by each Dock Supervisor and Dock 
Clerk should be taken into consideration even as envisaged under section 25 F. 
read with 25 G. of the Industrial Disputes Act irrespective of the category in 
which the Dock Supervisor or Dock Clerk was engaged. 

4. The management agrees to pay bonus from the calendar years 1965 to 1969 
at the rate of 4 per cent and for the year 1970 at the rate ol 17 and a half per 
cent. The Management further agrees to pay bonus to Sri Vellai at the same rate 
at which other workmen are paid bonus for all the years for which he was not 
paid bonus. 

5. The Management agrees to grant one increment to the following persons 
from January 1970: 

1. P. A, Jotheeswaran, 

2. N. K, Ethirajulu, 

3. S. B. Ramachandran, 

4. R. Ramanathappa, 

5. T. C. Narayanan, 

3. P, S. Vlnayagam, 

i. N. R. Krishnamurthy. 

-ne management agrees and assures that the salary of the workmen will be 
disbursed on the 5 th working day or on or before seventh date of every month, 

(Sd.) P. Gopalarathnam, 

President Partner, 

P. D. N. & Son Employees’ Union. P. Davarajooloo Naidu & Son. 



7 52 TOE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


Annexure I 


S. No, Name 


i Sri N. Muthuswamy 
z Sri N. K. Ethirujulu 

3 Sri K. R. Varadarajulu 

4 Sri P. A. Jothceswaran 

5 Sri T. J. Chitti Babu 

6 Sti R. Ramanathappa 

7 Sri A. Ramakrishnan 

8 Sri S. B. Ramachandran 

9 Sri R, Thanickachalam 
io Sri S. Sriramulu 

n Sri T. Nagarajulu 

12 Sri K. Veeraraghavan 

13 Sri R, Venkat Rao 

14 Sri T. C. Narayanan 

15 Sri N. Ramamurthy 

16 Sri J. Rajarathnam 

17 Sri K. Thangavelu 

18 Sri R. Victor 

19 Sri D. Balakrishnan 

20 Sri N. R. Kriahnamurthy 

21 Sri K. L. Subramani 

22 Sri P. S. Vinayagam 

23 Sri S. Subramani 

24 Srj P. Jayaram 

25 Sri A. Appavoo 

26 Sri T. Adimoolam 

27 Sri P. V. Balaram 

28 Sri R. Velu 

29 Sri Vcllai 

30 Sri P. Thiruvengadam 

31 Sri D. Christopher 

32 Sri M. K. Krishna Doss 

33' Minus wami 


Designation 


. Ship Cliandling Clerk 
Deck Supervisor 
Dock Clerk 
. Dock Supervisor 
, Labour Indenting Clerk 
, Dock Clerk 
. Dock Supervisor 
. Dock clerk 
. Dock Supervisor 
. Labour Ir denting Clerk 
. Customs Supervisor 
. Dock Clerk 
, Dock Supervisor 
. Office Clerk 
, Dock Clerk 
. Gear Foremen 
. Dock Supervisor 
. Dock Supervisor 
. Gear Foremen 
. Dock Supervisor 
. Labour Indenting Clerk 
. Dock Clerk 
. Dock Supervisor 
, Crew Clerk 
, Mazdoor 
. Mazdoor 
. Mazdoor 
. Mazdoor 
. Mazdoor 
, Assistant Cashier 
. Typist 
. Steno-typist 
. Office boy 


Annexure II 


S. No. 


Name 


r Date of Date of 
promotion Appointment 


I. Dock Supervisors 

1 Shri A. Ramakrishnan - ; 

2 Sri R. Venkat Rao 

3 Sri K, Thangavelu 

4 Sri R, T hanickachalam 

5 Sri R, Victor 

6 Sri N. R. Krishnamurthy 

7 Sri S. Subramaniam 

8 Sri P,A. Jotheeswaran 

9 Sri N. K. Ethirajulu 

II. Dock Clerks : 

1 Sri N. Ramamurthi 

2 Sri K. Veeraraghavan 

3 Sri K. R. Varadaraj 

4 Sri R. Ramapathappa 

5 Sri S. B. Ramachandran 
n Sri P.S. Vinayagam 


June, 1966 
June, 1966 
1-11-1969 

16-1-1970 

20-2-1970 


October 

1952 

3-2-1956 
1-4-1958 
April 1954 

1-4-1958 

23-5-1958 

1-11-1969 

3-3-1950 

5-6-1946 


June, 1965 
1-7-1969 
16-1-1970 
16-1-1970 
16-1-1970 


16-9-1957 

18-8-1955 

5-3-1948 

5-I-I952 

3-10-1953 

16-3-1967 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAtlSA 12, 1892 153 


S. No, 


Name 


Date of Date of 
paomotion Appointment 


III. labour Indenting Clerks 

Sri T. J. Chitti Babu 



Jan. 1966 

1-8-1951 

Sri S. Sri Ramulu 


, 

Tan. 1966 

1-12-1954 

Sri K. L. Snbramani 


• 

Jan. 1966 

1-11-1562 

IV. Customs Supenusors : 

1. Sri T. Nagarajulu 

V. Slnp Chandltng Clerks : 

• 

■ 

1-11-1969 

October, 

1955 

j, Sri N. Muthuswamy 

• 

. 

. 

July 1942 

VI. Crete Clerks : 

_t. Sri P. Jayaram 

VII. Gear Foreman : 

* 

. 

. 

Sept, i960 

1. Sri J. Rajarathnam 

. 

, 

' 

19-7-1948 

a. SriD. Balakrishnan 

■ 

. 

. 

22-5-1958 

VIII. Office Clerks : 

1. Sri T. C. Narayanan 

IX. Assistant Cashier : 

■ 

. 

. 

October, 

1957 

1. Sri P. ThirUvengadam 

X. Steno-Typtsts ■ 

• 

. 

. 

June, 1951 

t. Sr, M. K. Krishna Doss 

XI. Typist : 


. 


June, 1965 

1. Sri D. Christopher 

XII. Office Boys : 


. 

• 

February 

1953 

1. Sri K. Munuswami 

■ 

. 

. 

1-5-1970 

XIII. Mazdoors : 

1. Sri Appavoo 




1944 

2. Sri Adimoolam 




1944 

3. Sri Balaraman 


« * ♦ 


1949 

4, Sri Vein 



* 

1949 

5. Sri Vellai 


. • * 


1958 


Witness Examined for both aides . None 

Documents marked for both aides . Nil. 


[No. 29/i t/ 



154 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th. December 1970 

S.O. 96. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bombay Poit Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub- 
section (1J of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act- 


Schedule 

'“Whether the action of the management of the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay, 
in removing from service Shri V. D. Gholkar, Clerk ‘A’ scale with 
effect from the afternoon of the 6th September, 19G9, was justified? 
If not, to what relief the workman is entitled ?” 

[No. 73/10/70-P&D-] 

AJIT CHANDRA, Under Secy. 

(wit ftJpm f»wn) 

fitfawft, 1970 

tfJToWTo 96 Efi; %?£tE EETfiT Tit TIE { fr EAfT E'lTET E ffiffiffe 

fsppfj «p srrt e tee btrt, eie| % eerie e E ruth- faEtEET *rk ee% EE+rfr 

%• i?TE t[T EVdtffiT RdlT fariER £ I 

Ek Efi: T'JTE TOE HET ffifiTT Tit EnEfEEEE T (%C fiFTfiT EtefitE 

EEScft | 1 

*Ifi\, EE, fEETE EfsrfEEE, 1947 ( 1 947 TR 1 4) RTU 1 0 Tt E’T- 

«rru ( l) ^ (E) 5TTI ETE EfTfiET EE WET fir, kffE EWT fiREEITr ?:f T 

fEETE Tit srfsrlwT Tit mri 7 -tt % EfeE %7^tE ettet EltitfEE' ttFeeuit 

ijRri; ^ % faq ftEfEfi TiEcft I i 

TPJTTTft 

"TET iwt TEE ; EIE % EEErEE fift kft Efo Ef o itfETT Hh f'TNT ‘<l’ 

E fiRU FT Tit 6 fEE^EE, 1969 % EW^E E EEI E tHHE 1 Tt TUETT^t 
JETEtfEE ET ? eFe Eft fit TET>TE fTE Efifitfi TIT frETE f ? 

[Eo7 3/l0/7RETo ^t°] 
STSftfi EEf, 
EEE EfEE I 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 155 

(«t*t vl\x turtt famR) 

RffRrjft, 19R$, 1969 

RRo mo 1917 ^4 J R RR^ srfafRRR 1948 ( 1 948 RiT ll) R% TUT 

5 R% WURT ( 2 ) RRT RRJ Rlfanif RR URtR gR tjrr srfirfRRR R% tJTTT 5 R% 
rrsutt ( 1 ) % ( j) % 'crsftR nfer r% rurg; rt fRRTT % rurtr TRrtR 

j TTTi T n^Rgrt r, tut trus *h^ri % utr 2 r% af^f^ff % rrt fRftfe' r%r ru^tT 

R% ?JJRJR RR Ri^lToi' % TT RRR? % fwq; fjRJ RTUT | STt ( i) R 3 RR % RfjRf'R hi m% 
■STTOU ; 4 T RRRfjRftR % RRR % ; (ii) 'UTT JTS% RT WT RR =fTT RR% if ; 

( iii) unfr % ujrsu if ; Trfa: ( iv) rtrr-rr % RfjRfri tfft; ujufu Jr % fjTt JTi ir 
fjRtfaj R 3TRT fRT UJJ % U^R 1 R% URU^PT SrfRfeRf it fafafe' $, «fk f%%RT 
^cfttfRT r F :?rRj^RT 19 Rf, 1968 r% rut ?>fr 1 

RRR RiT RR f% JTRT h(J fR*T R' 4^'0 R% ^T[RTR VT 

^Tj $U m 3iTJ WJ 

tti «fVo 1 rVo2 rP° ^v° 


1 


2 


tlRiTTVl : RoRo jj Ro^o ® Ro TjoRo IJoRo 

(l) UTdfRUjRUT, (2) ^RTT (SRR«T 
JRR/REOfr ; RUR R%TT / Rift i 12 
m % 37TT % fRTR I RTT% ; ?T?fW ; 

UR ) ; ( 3 ) RRrr REfr, ( 4 ) Wk>'ft RUT, 

( 5 ) UfaRUT, (e) RTftU, ( 7 ) RTUT 
RUT, ( 8 ) (wr) #r RUT, ( 9) (REfr) 

31% RUT, (lo) RTTl RUT, (ll) ’4 fr- 
RFPF (5?T), (12) R^ftRT (^R^RT; 7U 
% R% % f?TR fRUj), (13) 

( 14 ) (gU ftTJRi), ( 15 ) 

RRRRTC, ( 1 6) RUR> (UT ; 313 ; R^ ; 

RfSRT), (17) RUT, ( 18 ) 

RUT (5UTR3^t), (l9) RXRTR, ( 20 ) 
ifR^R, (2l) (%*T RR-),f(22) 

f^^T, (23) RUTTER, (24) RTfUT 
(jrfgRT RUT), (25) RUUt, (26) 

mmft (RTrarfr / jrr; T^ft / Rf^rr ; 
rtr% / rt? fRRi ; 1/11, 5?r ; f^RRft ; 

RTfnft ; RtURT ; R3 ; WR ; RiR rr 

tlSRi ^'RTR, TTR^U ) 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


(0 


r 


( 2 ) 


^0 $0 to $0 




4 (27) EfEE (^lSE), (28) Erft 

ETET, (29) EEEr, (30)71^, (3l) 

ee^t: (eert jw / Trmfr ; eert 

Ef$ET juft) (32) EE^ (l2 E$Et 
OT^ ft 3?R % $ER / El% ; EEfaET ; 

; srftiftRT ) ( 33 ) 

ETET ( 34 ) 'E'RHft ( 35 ) EH1E ERE 
etet, (3e) fEEEH 4 e, ( 37 ) *-$her 
( 38 ) et$ert ( 40 ) srrit ete, ( 41 ) 

5^T, (42) ETET, ( 43 ) ETEE 

ftwepp, ( 44 ) ElEEflE, ( 45 ) M^ER 

( 46) EIEt W, ( 47) d4><fl ER^ ETOT 
(48) EppfrEraT, ( 49 ) hep^t EEfr 
(so) E^f^E, ( 51 ) E?tE#EmT, ( 52 ) 

litHHT eSSeT, ( 53 ) ETE ETC^T ETHT, 

( 54 ) ^EEIER, ( 55 ) fRTJR, (56) 

ERR, ( 57) fa^fT *ft ETE It ET# 

wn RE^^EERTHpRE^ 3.50 3.20 2.90 2.60 2.40 


n^TH I »FR«T^T : 

( l) ^NtET ETET, ( 2 ) fVTEdY, ( 3)fERft 
(EEET % ETE),(4) ETfW (wte), 
(5) $ER, (6) $ER (E|TE ; Efpft 
err ; EitE 3 ee, err), ( 7 ) Ed 

^El$ ERd ETET (8) ^tCld nidi (hum ) 
( 9 ) ‘ERETf ^E^ ETET, ( 1 0) ^ER, ( 1 1 ) 
eWer (wet) ( 12 ) <$er (13) 
End'd, (l4) ETET, (is) «Rdl 
ETET, (l(i) 3RET ETET ; 

EgTE), (17) fTSET (fTEET), 

( 18) vddSH+, ( 19) 'fidiH', (20) ETER 
4 e, (2l) THREE (fff E^ET ; ETE TT 
E?T t^E), (22) ®RT*ETH (23) 

a 1 <4r (wet wt^ etet) ( 24 ) *ete 
$E, ( 25 ) fTTE ^ ETET, (26) ftfE dd 
ETET T£E TIER EE, (27) fiR®R, ( 28 ) 
ETET, (29) EEEER («Mdo<), 




I , V JAWUAR, 2, 1 / 1/fAUSA U, 1.1/ 



(30) (?nrmr), (31) ; 3 mT- 

srx, (32) (33) smTCftsnrPT 

fl%°T ; fx^x-*rtw »pt ; 

(34) =rnrr ) (35) 

3 RHTX, ( 36 ) *TTXfr (TOT^t), ( 37 )#£ 

(3s) (xt^tx ; htt ; ^?vC ; 

frpR sfh: / jjt 'fitex ; ftnx ; ifr ; 

<sHltft ; JT 3 T^X XF 3 T ; ^XT W ; TPT- 

fr^XjH^rx), (39) *R$X (*flft- 

; fWt ; 5 TETPT) , ( 40 ) 

(41) xrxr «ii<hi <n« ; ( 42 ) ?fcr 
*nxrr, (43) towix, (44) stcft- 
SWXW, (45) ^X^fTXT (¥TV), ( 48 ) 

*TOTX* 6 , (47) XSFPX:, ( 48 ) XHTVX 
(Wtx ^TFlXrx^), ( 49 ) W'R 3 WT ; 

( 50 ) <JRT 4 xr (» 6 M^T W'FTX ), (51) 
fcsxr (52) ?tsft*rT?rT (w ; tftex) 

(53) fcx (^rw ; w^rw), (54) 
q p T T ff TX (TOjW ) (55) fa (to) 

( 56 ) TPTqfx^X, ( 57 ) faPTXX, ( 58 ) 

$M?r, (59) ^rs^rmxrr, (60) st^xxffrqT 
(ei) lift (62) 'Kxnrr, ( 63 ) xft^r-snfV 
wwr, ( 64 ) *iwik 
( 65 ) 'F'TCTTW, ( 66 ) W# (flXXTCT) ( 67 ) 
spftwnxT-srrc, (es) flimt ( ; nf=f^) 

( 69 ) TPfrp^fr, (70) «ft<> fe, 

(71) 3 ? ^t, (72) (73) 

TtVrrJT, ( 74) tftWTX (*f qx«rx 'ftaft 

armi). ( 75) ghttox ( 76 ) fW- 

arvxrr, ( 77) fotft ^ art^ 

«r^jmoft 5 in^xixrf^T%t 4.70 4.30 3 .eo 3.50 3.2a' 

VTOT 

(1) Hfpw foxxft, (2) mfox 
wm fa i! sfrx in, (3) (4) 

<J 5 $TX, (5) g^TX {X3X*\fa ; fa II, III; 

$«?T 11 sftx in ; stopt), ( 6 ) wnmx 


158 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II— 



fo, (7) TERR 3r (fell HI), 

( 8) TERR TRfcr IL ( 9) 

( 10 ) tttrr ( 11 ) mfox (ttur 

tr ; (^>rt II), ( 12 ) TRTtRT, ( 13 ) 

T?Tf, ( 14 )^ (5i!!n5^f ; fo II 
*fkIII; sfaft I skill; ttrt; afro 
Wfo ITiro Tlr), ( 15 ) 33AR, (is) 
^T AT, (17) THEM TR TTEt TO, 
(is) teS-3t>M II sk III, (19) 
T?^ (tetet, (20) fopx (t^pz), 
(21) pRF TTE* TETT (22) 
f^FTRT, (2 3) TT+fk fakl fWF, 
(24) kfkk fW TTEEF, (2 5) 

ifRfr, (26) T^-PErfar, (27) seri, 

( 28 ) TEEF (TER ; TT^T ; TtR 
TTjET TTRT ik ; TtRlTEt; RRTHTfl' 

kr II : Hitt; Rrftts II; TterTtfsET; 
TYr^srrik II; RgftTtfwF; 

?tt srf ° Rt° sk fkPE «nfT ; 

TraRT ^TfT ) , (29) TT3F AMT’ ik 

II, ( 30 ) ttw (f?*R $tt; qr«R 

Tfw'fjRR TTTER ; RTT AT TSA 
t^ET ; WEft RTTft — 'ET ; T^TTT 
tra ^et ; TrepTff! ; set 'kr ; tttTtr 
ikktTET £EEfk % TET f'TR ; ^TT ; 
fRR sk OT ; TERR ifRR ; 
S{TT),(3l) MAMA ( R S?Ef) TER ) 

( 32 ) fkkR (33) fRRfrfRTTt ( 34 ) 
frr?ftfir?Tt (irr-II) foft Il^nllll 

( 35 ) fTR, ( 36 ) pfiST (TT 7 TT fo] 

ik-II; III; II; HI; t^eef; 
WT ; TTTT *kft II; TT^r HRT ; 
tthIart % knj trt m ; i*t - haTha 
; sk rrtt), (37) srnrft 
(RETT), (3 8) WRIER ( 39 ) TRTlkA 
% farr tlRF, ( 40 ) TETTT (4l) 
STEER (%TFT; ik II), (42) TTI^T 




Sec. 3 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 159 


(l) 


( 2 ) 


4r(foII; III; (43) 

Trsrfarw^ ( 44 ) TurfwV (snirTTre; 
St II sftr III; H sftr III; n# 
tt farsfr; qm #jfr II; fz «pt tft ; 

TWrTTT«Fm; «Wf; 

<fto tpr 0 ; ; STUFT ; Hd9T ; 

qm^FR ; thtfjt), ( 45 ) 

(46) WTF ( 47 ) (»M 

II; TT imw ; qiaK+M ir? II; sHh 
jfr II ; ^nr ite II; 

^fW r ) (48) TTSTpH^t (uTTift) (49) 

( 50) fwt (^f H ; *fldMW?T 

II ; 'ft® # ; ; ttfttte ; 

fairf °T ( 51 ) TUT fr-"Tt sqoft ir( 52 ) FT# 
TTHT (63) Ft% TTHT (|t; CT?*r) 
(54) ^ST (55) 'I'ZT (TTrirr 

Tt 3 II StYt III; II; TT^RT-t' ; WTZT 

tftr Tif^FTT ; qrfwR ; Ttn srter), 

( 56) FTIT3T ^TT TFTT, ( 57) 'TTTT3T 

^ trt (tut fqr^t TT? II) ( 58 ) 

L M *■? c. (5 9) UTRT (TTTFT NWt 

II ; e^fff ; ; Tfasr ; fwl 

** II)- ( 6 0 ) r^wTr ( 6 1 ) L d<-dT 

frsr, ( 62 ) TrfrRRT, (63) qrfrT- 
^HTT (wTt) (64) qrq =qTTT ( 65 ) 

T^T "TTHT (sFTTTtJt; II III 
jqufVlI), (66) TPT (^FT TUFF) ( 67 ) 
qto (es) qtq qmr, ( 69) qrq 

TUTT (t^FFF), ( 70 ) "FTT (7l) 
ttRwit (ut % ttft) ttII) ( 72 ) 

TTFT FT ( 73) fw TTTT TFTT (f^FTT) 

( 74 ) Mr ( 75 ) fr#3T (w?r qRi) 
( 76) II ( 77) T-T^ 

^fTOFt^FTT (78) EMSFlft ( 79 ) 
5ETTTTW (80) *TRFF?T (tFTFF ; 

$vft II ( 8 1 ) ^TFT (82) W 
TFT TTFT TT?T TT?f T-T 3 'RTi 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


To T?o ijo To ^ o T? o ct 


(83)RtqqR?R (84) ‘rtfMriTHTsnrr 
(85) qj^pRTT (86) ^PCTT (^) 

( 87 ) q^TT/^rr 3 ^ wr (as) q?*rt 
qrp^qRTT (iRTTOfo ; ^ II ; >&jfVlI) 
(eg) tfm J rrar (90) qc^reRW* 
JTTTTT («NV II) ( 91 ) q?*TT 
(92) (snf) (93) 

( 94 ) (tf^m") (95) 

?rsff( 96 ) (*rft) ( 97 ) dic^Hq^fRrr 
(98) cTK^^TT (99) STfiRt^r ( 100) 
3 T^n: (>£ 4 t II) ; f^rrt ; 9 ^ ; ^fr 
( 101 ) TORIR ( 5 RT 0 T ^ ) ( 102 ) 

£Rr qnR ( 103) £>rq>n: (srwt?) ; 

(ite II III ; II) ( 104 ) zZt\ 

(105) $£rt (ioe) (107)^ 

3 rtt% qrar (ios) *RT^r swr 

(#0ftII«fkIII) ( 109) ’frfr 

II ( 1 1 0 ) *pr? 5 nr ( 111 ) 
spito ite ( 112 ) 

II ( 113 ) qtf tor 
( 114 ) qJ^rc ( 115 ) q^ifq-* % 

(116) q^rr^n: (^ofr II) j'f-rqRqrm 

(117) gw «rt ^ ’ttrtt ( 1 1 8 ) ?ra^tqrR?r 
qHi (119) tiqi'fl qrrR «um (strto 
fa 4# II) ( 120) RTT fqRfT (121) 

RTC fiR^t (ik ; i; 

; (f^raRfr) (122) *rMt *fhc 
tq RFTT ( 1 V 3 ) RTRqrft WIT 

RRIRRi ( 124 ) 3 =^ 1 ^ (fqiSR) (l 25 ) 
qrRt qmT ( 126 ) ( 127 ) 

f^PTR ( 1 28) fqRR qR-firyR (129) 
TOt^T (shtotrirt) (130) TOITOT 
(qfsrrqfaRT) ( 1 3 1 ) ^rrp (Rfart-^qr 
(i 32 )f^Rfrf (133) 
(to-'ft) (134) frofr 

RTTOFT ; #q^R) ( 135) jfteq TOTT 

(136) *fRRT Wtf ( 137 ) wit 


S€C. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: IANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 u6l 



( I 3 S ) STFTFF (FFTiTY RTF ; (fEtT 

srwqt ; sift ; Rvftfor ; ft ; 

ifFF ; TtFF TFT ; VtFT ; fFPT TF ; 

FTRT ; TPT7 ; FFTF 7>TTT fFTF ; 

FRcR ; TTT ; ^-|TTT Fk 
cffTR TIFT ; sftFT, qrq- FT5T skm ; 

RTSI'fr; TTTFTFr RTF; FFFT ; fR3T; 

Tfrqr ; RTF TTETTf ) ( 139) ^FF 
RTi ( 1 4 0) RTHFT FFt TIFT (t^f ) 

(ill) EIT-r FTT# TTFT / 1 FFR 
FTFT (l42) 9j?fTTT $?PFTFT ) ( 143) 

RTFT ETRF ( 1 4 1 ) R^FF (fRcF ) 

(145) STFlFft ( 1 4 6 ) ^T-RTfr k^TF 

( 147 ) Z^T /fRFT ( 148) FRT FFF- 
RTTFT ( 149 ) FTR (r^FTF) ( 1 50 ) 
fFRT Ft RTR Tt F^ITT RTF FR TFT Fi 

JFFfRFR^f 7.00 6.40 5.80 5 .20 4.80 

(rfflF |FF 

( 1 ) TOF RTFT #7 1(2) Ft (FIT 

R? Isfk FFl I ( 3 ) FTEFT RT I 

( 4 ) TTFTRTTitRfT ( 5 ) «TFT^R 
FRV 1(6) %RF FTFR FT I ( 7 ) RF§ 

RT I Tfk FRt ( 8) RF't&TR TFT gfft 
RFTR FTFT ( 9) RTF FT I ( 1 0) 

RTF (dfe ) ( ll) TIFF (fTtTRtI; 

FteT FtO - I ; Rk? RT^R FFt I sfk 
3>FT SFR TtT I ; RTF TFT RT I ; RR 
rf I ; qrr I ) ( 12 ) fsnrrft fRRRt 
Rl I ?fk I ( 13 ) fTTT (rfI; 

? kfr I ; RITE FFt I ; ERTR ) ( 1 4) 

Ttnkr (r^trf) (is) fre re re 
I ( 1 6) RTF ftWt ( JFF ; FFtI } 

( 1 7) REJF fTTR / ’kfr I sfk 

FFVII (is) 4%fEF (FRET ) ETfsTFFt 
fRFft ( 19 ) #%fEF (#lFF$Tl ; RTF 
TFT RF I ; RTFT'JFF'T I ; FFt I ; 
etetefff) ( 20 ) froft til ( 21 ) 



1 62 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


*j0 $0 J J(ofro fro ^0^0 


fjpwV (yrapypsET fry I) (22) frfrn:- 

ftnrr ( 23 ) frmffrrr (^fr^ 

(24) fr^ST (fry I; froftl; *fr ) (25) 
c 5 TIFi< STTHT (tr) jfrwft I (26) 

R*TT (stctft) ifrfrl' I; (27)Tr%9HlT 
(*fr *tt«i ) fry I (28) ffrfterc? 
fry I (29) stKi'MiTsfuft: I; (30) 
t T?*TT' TER TRT ’froft ; ( 3 1 ) 

TTsfr^HFTT fry I ( 32 ) TRT cTORfr TT^TT 
ifrfrr I, ( 33 ) trt tr fnrfrr I, 

(34) ?R-frkrffrTT (^rfgrrr) ; (35) 

2T5FH; sfrofr I ( 36) jffaRR fry I 
»frofT I ( 37) ijfrt aRT% yRT fry I ( 38) 

STfaW? frll ( 39) frfr ftpST 

«fk ^TcTPT^T frfrffrn (40) fRT^TC 
(for) ’Mr I (41) yrrfr strt 
^frl (42) yn: farsfr fry I ; froff I; 

( 43 ) h^ri I ( 44 ) ffr^T 
(sftyTT) fry I ( 45 ) 5P5IF3R (RRTfrt) 
frjR fry I ; ?R fry I: snfrtfw 
fry I ; friy fry I ; fry I ; yiRT 

fry I ; ffrynfo fr?r fry I ; yw fry I wr 
fry I fry I ; «bt^ frroy fry I ; 
yyfryr fry I ; fryr fry ; ^yx fry I ; 

Trarsr sfrpfr ^tht fry I ; TPTfryl; 
fry I ; srmfrt frirer fry I ; fr^r^ fry I ; 
frrurr srk ffryrfrfr frw fry I ; yrfwRfry 
I; foRfryl; ffrnrfry II; ( 46 ) htt 

FHITfr yTHT I RTT3 yT^TT fry I ; ( 4 7 ) 
syrqrft ’fr’frr I ; (48) yfry j ffr^rr fry I, 

(49) yFTT 4 i?+ 6 re^n: fry I (50) 'm 
(p^ER) fry 1(51) fa^ft frt TFT fr 
set sryfr frt *rftrcr ^ ?r fwr 

% ? 8. 80 8. 00 7. 30 


6.50 6.00 




i.EC. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, I971/PAUSA 12, 1892 163 

(1) (2) 


f#q 4 44 : 


^ « m 3 « * 

^oCfo ^oq-o * ^ocfo ^oq"o 


( l) 54 ° #0 fsrfqr ( 2 ) 4# (4#f- 
TTl) ; 4l4-4Jf4ff4 ( 3 ) 7T°3TT 
f#-I4 (jfjnrfc) ; 4R- 4 #4# ( 4 ) 

4Rr<; f44UT4 ( 5 ) h## (6) wTifr 
(44 I, foil; ■ffiTT^II; nrn-ifjr- 
4 fo ) ( 7 ) ?# 4 rP ( 8 ) WTTTTti ( 9 ) 

HT-VUn (4 ; TT4-4 ) ( 1 o) 

47477 4 RT ( 1 1 ) 4 rf 4# ( i 2) 4 nf 
4 # ( WJiA'R) ( 1 3) # TTffrfq-4 (14) 

Ft Ftp (15) 44744 (13) I ##4 
’ST 4 R 4 (17) CT?f #4 (is) ff# # 

4 f 4 4 4 RT 4 TIT 7 T f 4 44 -f # f#W 

4. 80 
3. 20 


#4 t — fjRfo . 7.00 6.40 5,80 5.20 

TTT-TJffrfo 4.70 4.30 3.90 3,50 


7T r #4TW — 34 #45441 % 44R4 % f#r — 

1. (T) 44 tr % WTTTT 4T44T, f##, 4X14 #7 34 741# % f#T# / 

4 r ; i f f 5 m/ sr* ff #sT pV Tfffa 4 s ff##J7 # 5 ; Ft % iuxt % 4 # wet wnttt 
*#4 I 

(u) 4*4 'fr 1 4 SRTT4 *T?4XT4EX, f 4#7, |TTrTTT, 44447 , ^41 #7 34 741# 
% K 4 Tr/T4':4p4Tr#/444# #4? # 4fffa 4 ' 8 f¥##T7 # ^Ft T 5E5T % 7# 

7444 44Tf4R #4 | 

( 4 ) 544 fr 2 Y H#44 44144, 34RI4T4, 4457, 4*3435, 4TTJ7, 4571$, 41714# 

# ; ; r ; ir fr v Ftt# /tot 4 if#pr#/m 4 # ## # 4 f 7 fa fr s fasfWto: # 5 # # 

STRT % foil 7414 frnfw §tff I 

(T) 44 Tf % 44TT4 5?##, 5T44T574, 4RI, W#f% 4UW14, 4 ^TT'T 47 , 
4f ft T r , VITTcfr, # 74T4T4, 44457 447 fnj^, ^TITTT, W447T7, 5R47, 7R47, T##, 
WTCrU, 444 4>1, #47 (TE^f 14344), 414457 f4fTT, 4#4T, 414447, 4714 41441, 

4t IR, F4Tlf 447, ##Fw 44 Ff <fo f44T447, 575457 , 4T7#, ^TTTqTI, 44414, 4141#, 
# 7i57, # 771457 , #341, 4414 1 , 43141, 54147, f44T#7, 4^7154, 47#, 4415 , 41#, 
417 4 57 , SUP# ^ 7 fr 457 , 4 # 7 f 3 , 4T34RT, 4^414, ®47I, ##4, 44#44(###4), 
[ i 1 ‘:, TfTf, 474, ffr-T?, 4i : 47447, #37:447, 4744r, 44414, J4 44741^141, f4447T, 



164 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Pakt 0— 


srf'TTT, FFFFK ^TFT, FFTFIFR, fffRFT, f TR *f'TFT, 

F^TFTF-TTf-qiTtgFf , ffftFTFTF F 2 R, FFT, ”TifrrFT (FTF?), *jf5FUTiF, fflFT, rtf. F- 
FFFtfT, TjFFFt, FFT FFT, FrffFHTF, jfiTTljT, ft FT 7 gFft-STTTFTZ, fr.Fl T, 

grjf, grjR, gmTF, grftinT, gFft-f%riTT, ffK sif^t, ftfffr 

tsjftf?, gn^;, FFF 3 R ^nrntN", fifft, fmer, ftegr, sriFt, FiftFm, f zRfoqF, 

FTF^, ftZSFF, JFF^T, FtftlTF, FTFT, |FFftFF, FRTM, ftHm, flFR, FtUT fFTIT, 
FTFTF, ftZT, fFTTFIfT, RFTgf t, TIZFqT, ftZTFj fFFFT, FfsTFTFT, fFT, RF1TFR, 
iJ^TIWqjT, FlfRT, FFTF, FTTTFfF, FFFt 7 FfT, F*4TT, TR5, fFflJT, FTRIFI^FTFTR- 
•FIT, ftFFTrjT, FFTT, fFFTFTFrT, FffFTT, FFFTd, FTFFPtSF, FTFTFlffFF, F1FSF, FlfFFT 
FTFTftT.F-Frfr, ft^FR, qzFT,ft-RRTT, ftfftf, FtcFiff^, gsfte, qft, FifRfr, f ft f, 
qzTFfR, qfCTTHT, ftfttftz, qfFgft, ftRw, u^Ff?, Tift, TR.fRRiqjR, --rtf, 
ihwt, ttf^jt, TTT, 7 %zr, ttfff, ttfijt, ^ft, «ftFFT, fift, ftf, FiFfv-frRisr, 
ftsrrjr, fvrtfFrr, ffar, f^ttf^t, FTgfgm, f*ff, TftFijT, ftriFjTjTf Ffr, srrtf- 
qr, cTTrfz, ff|, cTwVRfr, fffFTF, (cT^t^R) faFf^URfr (faff fr ft) , 

ftrfjr, fFFtwfft, ^ftftfTF, zRtft, zqqngFFFR fs^t, FTram, fcFTFizr 
(t^qrirr), fT^TTHTTr, fwrerrqzHRiT (faFFiFFSFF), ^iw, ftjt, fifftt#, f~ 7 ~ 
tJFF 7 FTFF, FlJFFT ftr TF FFTFT % f F^nTT /FFTFTfsPFT ft /tST FT t tftft/ffaT/f F 
wtT, Ffafr, mft ft qfrfa n wrs fwtffteT ft ffv % tftt % Ffr wh Fmfa'z ffr i 

(s)fFftF F FFT TFR FFlfatT f‘F ft W?T If ft i ft 2 fR ft i| Ff Tf-q - f 1 p 
2 . (ft) wf?Rr qFF f? $ ftrcw FtrnFiT Ffwit *nq «flt fa^r ^ % Iwq 

ft f 5RRTT FT 5TT%Tq q:T gtZT qi fqqf W ft H ft FT ft I 

(w) TOfwqrq Fg| fsraf fwr/ ft stfctt qtt Rrar *mt ftif q:m qr- 
FTR'-f ITTT JTFF fTRI RIF ?flT ft f^ft TFFlfr jp q4f Sf, FT FI FIRS^F R ItFI FT 
% TFT TFF WJTjSRT qf f SlftF FiF FfiFfFF | I 

(f) ¥jm FFT Fg | ffFF f 5RWT FT WFFT FFJ f^Tt FTF FT «TFFF SRI FT' 
fSTCT^FF F FT fqift S qrfFFqr FT ^FTFFlfF^ FTFiF F STTI fFFT FT F%F>' 

fFF% FRt F FgF FT 7 fFFT Ffe ft FTFSFWT ft I 

( 3) FFfit ft ? FFTTF tfsift SRI f 7 F/R f^F FF FF 's/if F' T" ' 4 . F 1 F 

ftff $ I 

( 4) FF$ft ft rfHFF Fff F fF fFFTFif FFt ?T FT FlFFi fR STF ft. ST'. FT 
f FT’RlfgZ f?TF ft FZ^fr Ft FlfFR f I 

(5) 1 8 FF f FF FTF 3 % ^FfqqFT % fFF ft 7 fnFt’F =Fftc ft % fFF FF^ t‘ 
ft -^FTTF FT' FFfFF FTF % TFTF FFFlft ft FFF FTt % 7 0 FfTF.F f FFTF ' f FT I 


[F » 6 (l)/69-qFc I^To qifo (|) l 




Sue. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12, 1892 l6j 


*o TTf° 19 18 — ^TcTR srfsrfTTT, 1948 ( 1948 ^1 11 ) Tl TTPr 

'5 ^ TTtTHT ( 2 ) 3TPT TTtT TTffrPff TT TT>T f ^ Pltp TT fTTT TP S|TPt pt p£ 
Ttfr Tt Tfim^T TPt fir ?rk TTT TT UTPT 5 TT TT-UTpr 

( 1 ) % (*f) % pjsftT pfepr Rfrfr petr tp fqprp qrp% % tt^tt %'£Vt 

PEER TT'TTPT TTPf TT1TT TUJTT % PRP 2 4T STfafeTTf T TTT fTfpr%eT PI^P 
'TTTjft Tt ^JTTT TP TETifpirT % TO JEuff % Pet pJTT TPTl | Pf (i ) PlTPr P 
■PT^HriT TT TT% 5TJPST j if TT TTT-fTTfT % TTT T ?rtp (ii) T TP Pit? 1 ?ftP Tc«TP 
TTTPT TPT T % fETTTTT E fTTlP TPT | ^TT % TIT PTTgTf % OT'tf I Tl 

■jrftferi t Mrfe: f ?fk friw tHt | fr ^fag;TTr 19 e§ 1 9S9 pr 

1 


ttt qr srrr prr faprorp arrprTT t^pJ qft pjjtpet Tt 





WT 

5 TT 


Tto 1 

Tio 2 

pfr 

st 

To To 

pO 

po 

po to 

Po t 


PTfTTT : 

(l) T5rft TEE ( 2 ) tTTJP 3.50 3.20 2.90 2,60 2.40 

(ttpt 3w / prrTTi; ttpt e%tt/ 

ppft; 1 2 TT 3 iTP % fPTR ?r?ts HT- 

fw; ( i) 'rfrqT^r (. 1 ) o’i ~u 

TTPTT ( 5 ) STPtT T.'C-Tr (6) PETE (?) 

-TTpfr TTHT ( 8) TtT TETT (TPTp) ( 9) 

-£tf TTPIT (TOTl) ( 1 0) OTYt PTET ( 1 1 ) 

'EFtSEP ('JPT) (12) TPftTP (TR, JT; 

w % or! % Pet Petp) ( 13 ) 

-T>TfcrP ( 14 ) (^PPT ffP-EP) 

( 15 ) TTETIP (l 6 ) TTPHF (#T; 31 E. 

TfJ; ^TP) (17) SERl TEE (l8) 
spa?> ^TPir (s?rrPT |f) ( 19 ) twe 
( 20 ) PP RE ( 21 ) TT TE (tE TT) 

( 22 ) f W TE ( 23 ) TfCTP ( 24 ) 
etFee (Tf^rr pet) ( 25 ) pthteF 
{ 26) HTPTrpft (pjTTPfr 3^T; PTt Tf|HT; 

PTT% Hsp+qi ; 111 ; JPT ; fTTTPfr 

^r^nfr; pftHT^ ; pr; *tw;; ttt tt 



166 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II- 


(0 


( 2 ) 


4 * * * -H 

Tj o 'To 3 ^ 0 ^ o 

rrsro-tsR; trott) (27) 'srfPTT 

(>d*«JH) (28) TOtR! TOT (29) 

TOHt (30) ( 3l) TOTOJT (torR 

wnrt^T; totor ofr/pffRrT) ( 32 ) 

TOTOJT (f TOT/ 1 8 TOf H ?fr% 1 2 TOT TOt 
TOR tT <J7TT ; ; 1 5 TOT 

% ifr% % TO®%) ( 33 ) ^sr TORTT ( 34) 

TOITTTfr ( 35 ) cT^nRT TOTtT TORE ( 36 ) 
fTORTO TOT (37) T$TS.TOT ( 38 ) F 5 TT- 
TOT (TfiTOTT t}Tt) ( 39 ) STT 1 TOTO (40) 
er^ tor ( 41) ctertott ( 42) £>fr 

TORT (43) TOoRfTORTO (44) TOET^R 
( 45 ) TO^TOT (46) TOft TORT ( 47 ) 

TOT^ TORT (48) PPFYt TO^lT (49) 

WfT TOEft I 


TOT^tTOFtn : 

( l) RTOTO TOFTO (2) fTO^ (3) fiTOrfr 4.70 4.30 3.90 3.50 3.20' 

(TORT % TOR) (4) TO^TO (SETOT) 

( 5 ) TOFT (6) TOFT (RTSRfr RRT, 

TO> fen; TORT ( 7 ) TjRlf TOT% 

TOTTT (8) RTtR REIT (TOTH) ( 9 ) 

TOTTR^ TOT% REIT ( 10) RTOT ( 11 ) 

RWfRTT (wr) (12) RRT (13) 

RTOTft (14) Tfrft TOETT ( 15 ) R7RT 
REIT ( 1 6) RTET RTTTT (#?) (nHSR) 

(17) $ttott (frRR) (is) toueto 
( 19) TOTt^T (20) TOTRT TOT (21) 

TOET^R (ifc'TOHT; RTR spT RTTO^TOt) 

(22) unra (23) Errort (tsrt 

RETT) ( 24 ) TOTTFT TOT (25) fllTT 
RETT (26) fror RETT T^r TOTRT TOT 
(27) fiFST (28) ^RtfTOET (29) 

RRTOTTT (TOT#TO) (30) TORRTT (RT- 
TOTTOTO) (3l) TOTKTT ( 32 ) TORt REIT 
( 33 ) igpn€r (wr TOfsiR; frRTT- 



Slc. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 1677 


0 ) 


( 2 ) 


_ A * A 

Tjo q o Ijo T TKj qo To qo To qo 

TtTFT FT; qro) (34) Nfosp 
(TTTFT TT2FT TTRl) (35) WT 
(36) Fuft (tuft) (37) Jr: ( 38) 

Jr: (rf^R; W; u?f; ^SFT; 

rffa/TT fTRF; FF; 

smut; afd'^M ; tri^t; tt^t 
ftRft; tu tt; tft sut) 

(39) frtjt (uttV t^ft; ^TjfTT; 

fJlT5ft ; (TUFT) (40) IJTRT (41) 

TRf TFTT Tit ( 42 ) cRT TTUT (43) 

^ETRTTT (44) T5RFT TTTFT1 ( 45 ) 

^TTTO (SET) (46) FTR'E (47) 

T^TTR (48) IJTR ?ftT UFRR 
(49) EETT 3JTT TFTT (50) *JTTT if T 

(TiEtfT tiwt) ( 51 ) fwr ( 52 ) 

TTTTT (tuft; tRr) (53) 

PfRT (F£FFf7; UlijilFT) ( 54 ) 5PTT- 
m. (uufiRr) ( 55 ) JR (u^r) 

(56) TFT qffTT I 


JTW : 

(l) fiESft ( 2 ) UT^R TTU^ 7.00 6.40 5.80 5.20 4.80 

T 1 TTT TTS IMt HI (3) TUTt (4) 

^R(5) U$tt (TT7.it St; tt II; 

IlI;>M II sflT III; TUFT) ( 6) 

TFmfcr (7) TTUiRTT (fa Ilufa 

III) (8) TTTR7: Tfafa fa H(9) 

( 10 ) TTTfaT (ll) <faTfaq; 

(URirfa; faftll) ( 12 ) FRTW 

( 13) ( 14) (TTTTfa fall 

<faIII; ^ift Ilsfalll; u|FTTi;^'o 

^fo ITTo TUFl) (15) ^tTT 7 (16) 

%T FT (l7) TFpSrq ”fRT ( 1 8 ) RFT 

fa>TiTT IIuk ? MIII( 1 9 ) Ufa (ur- 
UFT) (20) fa 7 ; ('fPfs) (21) ffa 
TTTTT ( 22 ) ffa> TTFT (23) fav- 
Tte/fJT^ir/fr<5Rl (24) TTfR ffaFF 




Ifg THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


( 1 ) 



TTFTT (2 5) Tkft (2 6) 

(27) TT*TT (28) (T^T; 

TF^T; TTiJT TTTT St; TfcT 

; iftar ^nff; Ttrr srkt 
till; wV^PT ; HKt tsll; ^ft, 
^TT St II wt^ft fiPTT; 6 sY 
WT fWF 5rrfc; 

T^T ^JFT) (29) ^3FT Tl'HT 

£*11 (30) tftt (f%«rr ^nr, tfh: 
TfT-T; fare t/tfftitr; ttt tt tst 
t'tR, T#f[ 3F5T TFT: TfFTT TlfTfr 
TSTT s^jiT ; TTT ’^FT, st^TTfafT Tf^rT 
^RT; TWHI r )f7T?,T ; ^TT, 

FTTT trr, ttwi: qfkpc; VTT) 

(31) srttt (t^tf Tfrrar TWHt) 

(32) fyrMu (33) feTTfy ftreft 
( 3 . 1 ) fa^fr fn^T (tt IRiifrll 
S*M III) ( 35 ) fTTT (36) fTST: 
(TT^^f; $y II, III; JflWt II; 
^oft III; 

T^TTT TT?T; TT?T #Tt II; TTST 
FTFfT, TJTtTTT TT S%fTT % PTT TTT 

pry; T%frr 5fk ' tftt) ( 37 ) arofr 

(STOTT ) (38) irtklFR (39) ^TFTlTT 
( 40 ) ^TTT 6 < (4l) 
'TTTTt; (tT^I TtII) ( 42) <41^*1 TT 

(SiTI,IIIftT° ^o/irwo sto) ( 43 ) 
TFT firefr ( 44 ) ttt frrrf (srttf 
trlLtfklll, »kft Ilsffclll, aft; 

ft^ft; TT4T; TcTT »kft, & TT TFT, 
T7TT TF TFT, TFT TTTf, TTTTF 'WcF'ft ; 
afto ito FTTFo 1JT4TI ; WFT TWT; 

TFTT ; TTTFT ) (45) TsftT qMi 
(46) t%frr ( 47 ) T%frr (Eft'll; 
aTTTFjWT; TTTITWF TTlI; TftfH; 
yftrrf Si'll; FTfr 5;ji t Sarll, t^ttt 
^ fyaft; t^t) (48) tft fr^ft (Enraft) 




Stc, 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 169 


( 1 ) ( 2 ) 


(49) fwf (so) ffrft (fy II; 
ktrit^ft firll, fro t: frfsTT; fr- 
TT*T; ffnW) (51) TTT fwf IT 
( 52) TToTT (53) wr (fe; 
2 T 5 T) (54) ^ (55) qrsr (TTAT 
rk; fy sfTTlII; *MrII; 
tut qrfwrc; Trfwn:; 
TffeT STTr) (56) c TTf3< TTf 5TTTT 

( 57) hi 1 t<i ^ +<n (test f+itfl 
#ft II) (58) H-HoK (59) '-MH< 
smw fy, wf II; 

Tffcs; fawt fir II) (60) crm: 

ffATt (6l) (62) 

TjiWR (63) M rff #I»R 

(T^ftT) ( 64) TPT TToRT (65) 

cnr (sprat fy, ^ II fk 
III; NTTlI) ( 66 ) W (f^FT 5 nrr) 

(67) fro £0 w (68) TPT 37TT 

(69) TPT TTTT («^iw) ( 70 ) TFR 

(71) Tr^m*: Ff f jrjq- fy II 

(72) ttt (73) fw 

(t^ejt) (74) (75) fft 3 T 

Tra:f Tmr att IffrsrT fy II 
(77) frwf *rrar (78) 

(79) mnw (80) + 

(smw fy, iffrll) ( 8 l) THEfR f 

W fTHT-rnTT F^FT fvTRJ (82) 
f T (8 3) Ffl-TR TTTdTT ( 8 l) 
^fTTTl (85) TffRTf (TTT) (86) 
ffaTC TT^fT ( 87) 'TATT TRT 'TOT 

SURAT II; Sfoft II) (88) 

TATC TRT7ET TTTT ( 89) TATT TRTATf 

^Ton (srfrll) (90) tatt at 
(9l) Tsr-ffrrffTr (5Flt) ( 92 ) 
TTSTT (93) nfe^T (wt) (94) 
Tff (95) !T 3 ff (>rfr) (96) cTTT frr 
'pfOTl (97) AKffT ^MT ( 98 ) oTTST 




I 70 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


( 1 ) 


(2) 


A 7 A ^ 70 T. O 7 A Tf A Cf A 


ITT ( 99) THTT STRUT T* (100) 

( ^prt 1 1 ; fenr ; ( 1 o 1 ) 

;itTFR (102) €bpFTC STRUT T¥ I 
Ilsrklll; #rrll) (103) 3 &TT 
(104) (105) STT (106) 

4 <TT% TT'TT (l 07 ) 4 I^I TTT% Til I 

(TtII wkUl) ( 108 ) ^ 

11(109) mrafra (no) pffytjrt; 
ST-RUT (ill) PRTS^RT sfrff II 
(112) tou (113) *hi£iK 
( 1 1 4) wptt^r 4 m (115) *mi£ 4 k 
( sWtII; 5^r tt ttt) (lie) 

T7TTT (ll7) TPTOt + ■'rl TTFTT 

( 11 s) *rrift *rrar (strut ifr 
^uftH) ( 119 ) cTRpTFlfr ( 120) mx 
frpRfr Wl *fh; III; tint I, 

(f^srrft) ( 2 1 ) *pMt sflr v jj ^ ttwt 
( 1 22) sftYR SHIW ( 123 ) 

fwc (firer) (124) 

II ( 125 ) (TRl) >M II 


wftTT> JUM '. 

(1) srrfcTT Ttu-ni'-n m 1(2) 8.80 s.oo 7.30 6,50 6.00 

Tfa I?ffT I ( 3) TTWT I 
( 4) TTWT TiU+to trl (5) wfrT 

R-pjftI (6) %TPT YFFR ifa 1 ( 7 ) 

Sy IsfT?: #1 (8) Mtrr *pr sfk 

tty^T twt ( 9) #jft (10) 

(w<W) (ll) YTTR (PTrfT ^y), 

*fter n=mct $y I, RfeT ;*t 

YtYY W ^Y I ; TTYR ^FT $Y I ; m 
^Y I ; 7R »^ufT I ( 12 ) faYYt 
TTY I sffc ^jfr I (13) fasr (ifa I 

^uft I; qr?T I; stott) 




Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 171 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 14) (T>TTT ) ( 15 ) HTSTRT 

I ( 1 g) tdt fapfr ($het; 5¥ I; 
^ I) ( 1 7) RFrPT I 

WiTNJrfl'II( 18 

f*rraV ( 19 ) R%fr i r (#5 ft m; 

53R fl^I; WRTWT Jl¥; JTfsp 
UTl ; TTrlFIT^ 53 I; 'Sj’jff I; qrfTT : 
WtET) (20) I ( 2 1 ) f*EEjft 

(^ETEl^FT $¥ I) (22) smfaJTT 

( 23 ) a'tqrfrRT (*Sfe svtr T^F- 3 ) 

(24) ^23 (H¥l; $nftl; ES) (25) 

<^TR¥T TTT TETT (test f4!TTf r ^nfVI) ; 

(26) TF3T (asiFT; I; 

(27) TrfwR (?? et%t) ml 

(28) ET|<E ftrftaqi $¥ I 

( 29) WTFTifr 1(30) 

¥Mr I(3i) q?>n w^- tett m 

I ( 32) WJ JWt ¥1517 I ( 33 ) 

qw tt^t fqrd't ^ 4 r 1(34) wstor 1 

ftrur (w%r) ( 3s) ^ I 

(36) 'n'Vr 1(37) 

*r£r 3 Ett^ ^wr I ( 38 ) TrfqwE 

I (39) aiqT fq>TE sffr 

^rtew-et E%fEE (40) a^rs'nr (*!et) 
1 ( 41 ) ETE^Y *PTT qETT sfuft I 
(42) tk fqr^r ^¥i; ?Kt (43) 
EPF^I <| $nft I 

f'Tfqqi : 

(l) EJTo #0 fafqq: (2) ijflY (e£Y= 
q.%T, TTTE^%T) (3) WEEMtE 
(affair, TFT E^T.Ite) (4) 

ao^TTfqTiETT ( 5) EisrCt ( e) 

m I, II, affair? II; aet- 

E^%t) (7) £e*Y Ww (s) ETHT 


172 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II— 


1 




2 




A 

* 

A 

A 

RTR ( 9 ) RRRRrR (R^YrRT; TFT’ 
r^Yr.Yz) ( 10 ) rYrr rrtt ( 11 ) 

RTTR RR> 

>3 

(12) RTR (RtYRTR) 

Ro 

^ 0 

R 3 To 

Rj Ro 

Rj Ro 

rYRiYj: 

r C\ 

7, 00 

6. 40 

5, 80 

5. 20 

4. 80 

RFT-RftRRS 

4, 70 

4. 30 

3, 90 

3. 50 

3. 20 


i rtr: — w % rrrr % far* — 

1 . ( 77 ) 0 % SRHRT RRT, TRYST, R3TR rYt IT Fl^K % f RRRT / 

ttt zfNY CtsY rY trfrfa Y 8 fTsWtzT rY % rrit % rrr RRrfw 

$Yr i 

(g ) sa^-i ^ trirr < igRRTSirc, rtrYt, yn «Y t vt rrfY 
y (YrrY/rrt 'TifTTrcrt/BUFft Yif rY qfrfa R 8 fa^Wter rY fY % srst % rrY 
RRTfTZ |Y») I 

(r) $13 3ft-2 % RRTRR RTW, WfTTK, RRJT, RF3R3)', RTR'JT, RjJTlt, 
TFfUl tft RK 2 R RRIRT T frTm/TTr TTi^TTTR t/^T T^ft rYY rY 7frfa R 8 fRTvYYZT 
rY ij[Y % 5RRT % TrvTr RRTR RRlfw I 

(*t) 513 Y % *RRRR wM, STYRRTR, STTO, ?lYK, 5P^^,| RSRRRRT, 
rttrYftt, rrtttY, rYtrtrtr, stwjt ttt rrs r*rmi, rrrht, rrrt, rfftt, ttYr?, 
strY^t, srraYtYw, Yrt (R 5 Y 7 ZRR) rhirtt, fafiY rYtt, rtwit, rYr Yrst, 
Ytth, fYwrf, t t t t qqYatfw rrY eaa, farmr, ^T^nr, rtoY, rrtrft, witr, 
ttrtY, Yrtjt, t^rcr^T, rYzst, rrtY, rztrt, stm, fiRTtr, Rfrrs/7, rYY, rrt^, 
rtY, Tmajf, rtrvtt, I rrYteHZ, rtsrtti, ysrft, zttt, YYr, rrYyz 

(rYYrYs), RZ5JT, TKT, 7ZY, rYrT, R-'TT RRT, rYuRST, RTRi IT, SRRTR, §R RRT- 

ttIYrr, fewY. YYrt, ^ftrK, Yf'YR, uYtt ; rYrtrtc, fa)Yjr3T, 
^r- ht r-rr -rrYsrt, T-RiarTK-^-'TiY^ir^, frYnrRK, R^ar, rrt, ^rfwi (wt), 

^fsrRTrtTR, RifsRT, rYr-^YY, RRRR'r, RRTRRT, J||UrNK, RKRtTT, eYrYz, wYt— 

rfrts, ^fmnuy;, f^TTT, ^trz, f^SK, rtrtr, ?rYrr, fr-fTTTr, vYr, 

^RRTYiY, RRR77/G RTRRRG YfTTT, 3RFT3, Rwj, RRRPJT, 5f?RtT, 'STIFFTT, 
STTTTIT, sftT'JZ, ETrft, T7)'rMTTT' r ZZiRYt - ;, UlR T- EzqTT, ^TTr, 

T.ITTYTRR', qi^TPT, tYtpjt, YtHTT rYfz fe?, TTTTFT, TTZT, Rl^'OTrir, TRT£€t, 
YTZTGi, vITRT, ^fsiRTTl, W, TRTT’J'C, R^TTT^T, RTfQ, RRTR, RT f’TTR', 
i 1 'iT7 1 , |T j T^r, RRTT, RTS, fR^tjT, RTKTRTR, RRRRR RRT, fRRRTJT, RR.T, fn^TRTRlR, 
RfRRIT, RRRT’Y, RRTRY^R, RTRTRItRRR, TRYr, RrfRR^, RTRT CtR, R-SRR^Y, at^RT, 

qzn, rtzr, rYtrtt, rtrrtz qY?RrfR, 5 ^TiZ, jY, 'ttYirY, irYw, rzrtYz, 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 173 


qfoimT, t fh?ff*ft3, TfaerSr, Trsmfs, N<t, thrut?, trtt, 73073, 371,7337, 

7TR3T, 7T3,7%3T, 733R, 7T377, ?JT3, aftRTT, 7RT, 3%7, TTqoft-fTTTR ROTOR, 
fWFTT, 3t37, 3^17377, 7Ter%![TJT, 3*33, tftRJT, R7T73T, fTofRft, 7TRftj7, cRTOft, 
fel3T, 3oft%<t, faRn7, 3R|7 (^|5)T), MfiRTP -F^ff (f^f^TTR^fr) , f37J7, 
ffpJ oft, <J3t7‘lf 7 7, (ftsT*"^, 35'jR, 3c-f;i3 RT7, 333JT , dcdTTJR, f%37R 7T 

(r5RRt), ftfORRUfl, f3T?T7aiMdd33 (f33TRq7373), 77R0T, 337, RTRlt, 
f37R31T, R%31, 337R77, tfl7 33 *R3t % f^Rt/^iTTltoTOf/Sl^fr R3f / 

trfegfR aR, 3W3 Rfa %t qfrfs It mz fW3fte7 3% ^ft % rr % *nfr 337 

37tfR3 S‘l3 1 

(so ) £3 ft if 3 ^wpr IR7 37lf3R 3>1 %t 813 0,5ft- i, sfl- 2, ?ftT jft Jf Rf«rfRTT 

7ft f i 

2. (*f) RF7T0T 377 Rt t777 3TR77 3t7R0. 370 , 3T7 t73 777 % fop? 3t^f 
3ft Sf.RRclT 3T 3337 37 R3T R feofTOT gt 7 pfl3T 3^813 ?t I 

(s ) 32tJ7l3T 373 3£ t fRTI^f |7lORT R 8177T 3ft JE 3I7T 3T0 fR% 377 
tt 3377 am rr faR otr %t froft juror qrsRTt % qtJasR 3i ttoMr if 
f%R 7T 31% 37T 233 RijmOT 7338i3%7 377 RftRfOTcT | I 

(T) J7I0T 713 7f | f0R% JOTOTTr R atHttT 370 f %% 373 3?. 3337 3171 R f78T 
% 77 if R f33ft S^ftRR R RTRtlfiR R3R % Sfaianw 317T SIR f%R 7T 3% 3t7 
f%3% 3>7ft ^r 7RT 3I7 Mr aU %t 3T7TJ733T iff I 

3- 37? f 7t %t R333 37 d%2RT gl7T f3Ri3 fRO, 30, 77 3% 3R 

ftat | i 

4. 37^7t 37 R3aR 37J % JOT f3RlR7 3, 3% 37 RT 3lifi ^7 233 f^aSHT 
% FRiffR fa 3' %t 37^7% 3% Rfpor | I 

5. 18 30 3 3R 3T3 % Rf333"t % fao, 3^7 fofltR Rf333'l % fa% 37^^ RT 
STJRIR R 33/33 SRI % RR3 Rp'riR rT R33 a^'t % 70 sfdTR % 37T37 -413% I 

[3o 6 ( 1 ) / 6 9—0,7 ° W7 3Tf 0 ( I ) ] 

RTO Wfo 1 9 1 9-VRcR 37^71 RilfTRI, 19-18 (194833 11 ) : <f' R7J 5 
%t 33--R7T (2) 3J7T S30T 5Tf333f 33 S313 R7^ ^3 ?ftT 23 f%33 37 7T7t %t 3f 33t 
*rftr$=3Rsff 37t ’Sfa'^R 317rt |ir 3faf333 %t 3T7T 5 %t 33-R7T (i) % 

(3l) % 3«fl3 3^3 3f3f% 3ft 33R 77 f37T7 317^ % 333I2f %Rt7 37337 037^171 2301 
37H3 313^Rr % Rt3 2 3% sftfRTf % 3R fafafcR 3^7 33^7t %t SJ333 37 3RRf73f 
% 33 S371 % fRtr 337tfai3 31i3t | %t 333 33^ % ORIR 1 3ft 333R3T sfarfR'R Jf 
faftfaR i 3fl7 3ft 783, 713, ffo 3T73lf33r f3333 Rt7 3ft37f73T (ffr f33R ) f33?3 
*fl7 3RI3 (333R 3^7 %^7 3fl3T f33f3 f33T7, 3|TMim33, 3f feoft) ?ft7 f^aiT 
(3173 37337 37 R7afi3 J7T3R 3%W3) 3R33t % Rftt337 % JT7T R 33% 33t3 3% 
33 7^t f.fa % foR33 Jt f33if%3 f, Rl7 f%l3 ^3t % f% 3fu^3R 1 9 3^ , 196) %t 
SPJTT 5‘,%t I 



174 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


jfnuTTfwf % sr^nf fur fa-smuT srErfcr q?r ^pitf %'t 


surtr 


(0 


( 2 ) 


■ STATIST : To ijo T° ^oio 

( l) tsTCTT (5^<T/«ft ) (2) 47TO 3.70 3.40 3.10 2.80 2.50 

$rFT(3) TDJTIHT ( 4 ) ^#?1T ( 5 ) 
fa*FTT (iftJT; w ; mmm; 

froZto) ( 6) TTHT TUTT IT^rferT 4H7TT; 

( 7 ) sW ( 8) ifr fsft ( 9 ) tft tp?tt 

( 10 ) ^TRT isftWHT ( 11 ) fwz ( 12 ) 

STTSFF (tn; W^T) ( 13) (^1«T) 

«trt ( 14 ) ^T4Tfi (is) ' E rr^r 

sfffI *nranr ( 16 ) tfthttt (wttjitt- 

JZ) (17) «TftT4r ( 5 ^ Fjft ; HTFTWT; 

*T£mrrHi weft ; otsirti ; Tmf til < gci- 
'41 § ; 7 TFT «H'MI J TTtTT ,’ 4 4 <+" ,' TiCT$ ; 

5FfiW; ^5FT; sr^Tt; h%- 

tWut; ftnf) (is) RTsft ( 19 ) 

W^T (!TOTE^ ; 41 -q'r^d ; srl; w 

«FT STTTT SFTRT - (TRTt; <fFT 'qjT SHIFT! ; 

ttst ; tttft «Ptfi ; wit ; F%fiTTT- 
TtTFF; qiTo ?TRo) ( 20 ) 

(^rnrfrriT) ( 21 ) wrrft ( 22 ) uifqnn- 

( 23) TT^TT ( 24) ^Sft WITT fWTT TIVt 
^TT (25) TEft^rrSTT (26) TtSiftw 
aT | •> s'Ett ( 27 ) n1«i% mi ( 41* ; 

Tiwt) (28) cTTT tttt! 3Tsrr ( 29 ) 

TIFT far# Tflr Wf faWETT ( 30) 

THcFTST 3TS1T (3l) ;isft TM 

?isf f sfM / TTJHSI TTTTTTTq' : 

( 1 ) qfuTT (wsr ; STFTr-HT^ ; fft- 4.90 4.50 4.10 3.70 3.30 

jt#t ; waHTW ; ^ 5RT>r 

^fiTT ; tpt ; tWYw mw; thtrst ; 



Sec. 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 175 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


mi; wr ( 2 ) fYnmY ( 3 ) risr ( 4 ) 

RiUSR TTRT ( 5 ) RtRRTR ( 6) RHY ( 7 ) 

RITZY, ( 8) IRfaRTR ( 9 ) fRT (smtR) 

RS-I ( 10 ) ItIRT ftRTRR sfti ( 11 ) 

WTWT ( 12 ) mTRT ( 13 ) HI 
( 14 ) -IRTTR ( 15 ) RRKK (RRfY) 

( 16) RZ fWr ( 17 ) RHoj’-? ( 18) 

RJT RRTR RTRT (l9) IRRSTR (20) 

(2l) RYR% RTRT (22) 
f%RTR (RRhY ^Zt) (23) RlfERT ( 24 ) 

WIK (R^TZ) (25) RRRTRT (26) 

RR^Z (TftrfecT.RWIli, ( 27 ) mRRRR 

(28) gRTTRT 

^>?H : 

( 1 ) 'ftcY'tz (>Mfii; iii; iv)~ ( 2 ) 7.40 6.80 6.20 5 . 6 O 5. 00 

^frc ( 3 ) RRtz (nrY ii) ( 4 ) mRRz rr 

( 5 ) ( 6) Rff W ii ( 7 ) «r?t 

E[5f ( 8 ) "4 H4i ( 5,'jfH’ ^RZZ ; R 7 ° 

zYo Rtzz) ( 9) f^TFft fiTFRfr ( 10) ftlZZ 
(ll) ZTRfRZRY (12) ZTR ftzsfY >RwY ii 
( 13) r#r-|r (rrYh, iii, iv) ( 15) 

RRtRRTRT ( 15) R%fRRT ( 16) ^STR^FF 
(17) fmzfY (ROTr) (is) Rj% RTRT 
(19) RRfwfR ROEF ( 20 ) RRTR^ 

(RR-RR) (2l) ^FZZ (22) flRT^RT; 

( 23 ) -luIWr ( 24 ) RZ$R (^RQS) 

(25) IRRSTC (26) R^Y RIFT «TTRr I 
ufETR 3;RR : 

( 1 ) RTZYRZ RRT i ( 2 ) *JtRZ RRY i 9.25 8.50 7.75 7.00 6,25 

( 3) R?i RRY i ( 4) rrYr-|r Riff i 
( 5 ) ztr (rrrY ^rY i 

■fRpTR rY : 

( l) (rpY) 

(2) RRY 

RftfRR . 7,40 6.80 6.20 5.60 5.00 

RTR-RJYRRZ , 4.90 4.50 4.10 3.70 3.30 




1 76 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12. 1892 [Part II— 


w Fftr^EFT % setIjr % fair — 

1 . (t) ^ FRpfa iprt, frrttt, feFfr, fftf Ftr ir tftet % ftFFf/ 

FFTFlfFElEf / BFFTt FtFf Rf Fftfa t 8 ftlFlifteT # £Tt % FRT % FFt TFR FFTfFR 

1 

(’3') SflE 3fV 1 % FR^F F^FEIEIE, EFfK fTFETF, FITFFF, ^FT, sflT TF TFTFT 
% f^fTTfr FFTFifF^isfli,' wE?fr «fl¥f F?t fMf % 8 faRliftFT Rt £fr % frt % f^T fftf 
FFlfFR RIF I 

(F) STF *fr-2 % FRFF FTFTT, WTfTFTF, FFFT, FEFF, FTFJT, 3rTnTr^ 

wk *f wrrf % fSEnff /'ER ’Ti iFFi Rff/ wmt sfr^f 3ft FfTfst % s fFFtFteT qfy ^ % tftt 

% FFt WET FFlfw $Rt 

(f) #F Ft % WFPfF FTtFt, FFRFTF, FTTT, FEfF, FFRyfTRF, FRFRFFT, FTTFr, 
sRTwrft, e\'tfrk, ftth: eft ft|F, shrift, rffft, feet, ffft, ffYfi, stft'^t, 

tflFFtF, FtFT, ( F^TfWTEF) ,FTFFT fE^TT, E?RT, FTFFFT, ETlE FlFST, vfrTTTT, pFFPf 
eft; srMfw FFftSFfa, f-FWTTT ^T^TRJT, FTTFt, fFTRF, #FFpF, tRTTTt, FtFTFT, 
FfTTFET, Ff^FT, FFRt, EFRTT, RTET, PEERT, F^TRR, E^Ft, EFEJ, ETT 1 ', EK+JT, 

FT^TFgT, FEtT?T, 'frfttt, efsNtf, ottt, ftt e^e, fffIfr (qfDrlFft^), jjftjt, 

FTFT, FEE, RTlFE, ERTFFT, F^EFT, FTFFT, HERR, gF FFTFTlW, IfT-FF, HpFFT, 
^TFFT, ^TTfF, FEE, ?T>f, ^T=T, FTTKTRK, fFRlEgT RRRTF-FF SPTtBFT, FRET ETT 
EE F^fFf, faiTtETER, »JFF, FFt, RTfFFT(FTRT), FfTFTRF, Ftf^FT, FTlF-^FFlft, 
FR Ft, FFTFFT, FtIrFTETT, FtTTPJT, RIF't?, gEFt-HTTETF, gYf%FT TI JT, f^FIT, 

^FTT, ^TFTTT, fTTElFT, gFFt'fE’JTT, SeV, ^SFRTTFt, EFFT 3 T, FTFFFT, ER 1 ^, 
EJFTF, RTF, ERFFT, FRFtF, RTFR, FTTFHT, ErSTJT, FTFt, TRFFTFT, RfeTFfFFF, f 
F^FF, 19RET, FTHtjTF, FFFT, RERRfJ, FFFEF, RtRTFT, T Fk fW fFFT, FTFTF, 
FftST, FTFTRm 'RTR€'f, ^T^T, RtSTF, fRFFT, FfFFRT, ^FR FFTFFT, ^rWJ^T j 
FTfTF, FFJF, FTFFR, FFFtT, %T, FFTT #T5, fFTFPJT, FTTFTER, 

FF ^TFFT, fFEFTFT, FFtT, fEFTFTETF, FTf^FTF, FEFTft, FTFTRt?F, 
FTFTTtfriFF, FTF^F, FlfTTFi 1 , FTETiTlF, ^ ^tdl, sfRE^>, FFFT, FTTF, FtTFRT, FTF 
FR, TtcFTfR, 'TSJFtF, JTp, Ft^Eftj FT^FF, FSRRR; FldFTFT, F'RftFfF.FfR^'t, 

TTFFff , TiEt, TTFEtF, TTF 3 T, TFFTF, TTFTFFFF, TTWT, TT3,T%FT, TFTFT, F T F, 

EtfFFT, FTFT, FFF, FtFFt-FTTF, FtFFJT, ftnftFT, ^TT, H^K-IF 7 , WF^TJT, F^FF, 
FlET'R, isfCRF^T, fFTftFfl, FErft^T, ^FlfF, fF^T, ^ETT, fFFFF, FFIFT, (FFR;t) 
fFFf^ETTFFr (fFEFIFFf), fFFgT, fFF^FFTfT, ^RtfTF, IF?, F3RF, FF^TFFF T , 
FFF^T, FTTTFTST, fEFFFTTT, (tERTTf), IFFFFFTF, fFFTFTFrlFF, ( fERFTFH'TFF ) , 
EFEF, F 3T, FTFFTTt, fWFFF^, EFFF, FFFTRR, FtT FF TFTFf % fFFFI RF^FTfFF'IF I 
ETFEft FtFf/Ffa^fEF 5TF, FfFfF TTffF Ft FfrfF F FT3 fTFiFRT Ft ^ft % WET % FFt 
TFTF FFTfFR (FF I 

(t) t[ F‘ F FFT TFR FFTfTF RIF Fl F, ^t- 1, Ft- 2 Fk Ft F fR-rTfE; 

f < 



Sec. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 177 


2- (t) EfEE TIE El i fSEE STEPEr E'fVliq 5^ Ek Fe% TT# % 
EFfrTfFfETTTET ET EEEE TT ikT ET Fe<-$E jfi E ZtET STEFsTE ?t I 

(*l) EEfETE TTE El | fEEE JWET ET STEET TF ETET EE? Fe^T TIE ET 
?EJEE 3 HT STM FeET EE} Ek Et %?fr fEE SnfETfF % eF&TET ET EEfstfE E fTET ET 
E% EET SEE ST# TSTO E^TTFe ETE eH-ETtE | I 

(E) JET TIE E? | fEEE JEEET ET STEET ET^ I fEE% TTE ET 5EJEE 3TTT 
ET fESJT % EE E ET FETfF ^TlfETE ET =ETEETfT ETERT E EftME 3TTT ETTT FTET ET E% 
eVt FsE% TtF E EfE eFt falT Efe EIEWTTTT {jF I 

( 3) EEfft tF ?EETE k 5%EUrf 3TTT fEESE f%E EE TEETfTEf TT «ft ERJ ^Rft 

I > 

( 4 ) EE^tF tF 3TT E fE FERRET E*ft ET ET ETtpfF <flk SE^F NlE 

ETETif^E Fee tF EEsfr eV etFee 5 1 

( 5 ) 1 8EE TF EE EPJ % 3eFTRTF % FT'S eFT FeeF E ®EFRTEf % EEfFF 

TF ^EcTE sF; EEjEE EET % EETE t 4+I<I TF E^E TTT ^70 MfdVIE % ETTET gW I 

[EWT 7 ( 1 ) / 6 9 -ITEo TSEoEtFo ($)] 

H>T°Ef° 1970. — «TETE EE^FF EfEfEEE, 1948 ( 1948 TT ll) OTTT 4 
TFEEOTTT (l) %EPS (ill) eFt ETTTT 5 TF ETOTTT ( 2 ) % ETE EfeE ERT 3 "A EE-ETTT 
( l) % law (t) 3TTT ETO wFeeF TT EEFE TTTr EFt TO EfafEEE TF ETRT 5 E?T 
TTOTTT ( l) % (t) % EEFE EfcE EfEfE tF EET1 ET fEETT TRF % ETETE, kftE 

ETEET 'FEESTTT SElF ESTES' EE^ft % ERE 2 TF eFeF^eF’ E EET FeFtFeE E^ RET^Ft 

tF ?iete tt TEETfuFr % ee eeeF % Fett fk^T eteF $ ef ^Fe % FeeFee e FieFFee 
I eet Ft tee eetieF % ere ( i ) tF erteeF jrfrrfMf e fEfEf%«E sfk Fdkr ^iF | 
Ft ez eFe^eet l9 et, 1959 tF eee frnF i 

EE^fF 


tjFetIteF % SEE 


EE fETTTTT sRltSd EE^FF •FF E[EEF 


m trta 

eF-i eF-2 e! ^F 


So E° To So fo So So ^"o 
1 2 


( l) tEETT (2) TfT ETE ( 3) ETfF- 3,70 3.40 3.10 2.80 2.50 

ETET ( 4 ) TTJETET ( 5 ) eFtFeTT (6) 

Frees (7) ijet ettt 0[tFee ttet (s) 
tfr^F ( 9 ) etF Efsfr ( 10 ) etF etet 



178 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 



A 4 A A * 

^>0 CfO ^oC^O JlOCjO q-o 

(ll) wfrFTT (12) fHT (l 3 ) 

RlRT (14) RRTTfT (15) RTR RTSt 
rirt (i 6 ) «rfw (17) rtr* (is) 

RR^ (19) (20) RTORt 

(21) RTfFR (22) RfR (23) RRt 
rto Rrspn Rk star (24) THt rrt 
(25) tits rtrrt srk ski (26) r*r% 
rirt (27) rtc risr rpht (28) rk 
ftr# ?ffc zk %RR faTPR'l (29) 

RFTRT TTRT ( 30 ) jtRkRT ( 3 l) 
fkft RPT % ^tTT TI%/TRT 5OT 
Rt RfRR fkR % f I 

RETfRR : 

(I) HfPFir (Rk^) (2) R^PFfr — 4.90 4.50 4.10 3.70 3.30 

(rfrc) (3) 'TfrRT (4) rhrtrt 
( 5) ftmt (e) wkr: (7) rfsrrtrt 
( 8 ) TtRRRT (9) RtRt (l 0 ) 3 [tMfr 

(II) TR-fkKR (12) ftct (13) 

RteT (14) TH J Tk (15) *TTRT ( 16) 

RTRT (17) TR^TR ( 18 ) RRT- 
«TK ( 19 ) gRTRt ( 20 ) iR/ftR ft ( 2 l) 

RTRt (^5) (22) RIRRR (23) 

RJCT RRk RIRT (24) OTT UlklRV 
( 25 ) RTSRTRT (2 6 ) fkrpT/^RTRT 
( 27 ) TTfRR ( 28 ) ^TRTRT ( 29 ) 

RT?R #T (k< 55 ) ( 30 ) fkft Rt - RTR % 

RfRk RTT RFR Rk Rt RRfRR fkR 

I 

fRR: 

(1) RRkT (Rk II, III, IV)— 7.40 6.80 6.20 5.60 5.00 

(2) <3fTC (%ft ll) ( 3 ) RTRRTRR 
(4) Rft (^fr 11) (5) 

gfR ( 6 ) RTRR ( 7) fRRRt fkRt ( 8 ) 
fer ( 9) rr fkeRt (#"ft 1) (10) 

RRk |r (RRt II, III, IV) (ll) 

RRk RIRT (12) (13) I’ST 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 179 


1 


2 


* ^ 4 A A 

<io qo <jo To qo ^0 qo <jo qo 


(14) frr^fr (sejet) (15) 

«rmr (ie) MHfa (17) sm- 

HT (j^T-YT) (18) (19) SETT- 

ER (20) or Mft (21) I 
(^te) (22) eert (23) ’TEfr ^tht 
( 24) (25) MV *fV TFT ?f 

TT% 5ET JW 1 ! 5ft JT'M f^RT % 

?• 

dftpp' JWH .' 

(1) »M*r I (2) *r$R £uft I 
( 3 ) ^ #oft I ( 4 ) k#t £«ff I 
(5) TTsr far# ^Jfr (e) 4 %Ptp 
( 5 ^ks) (7) MV tfV TET § Jf^FTPt 
mit *pt teV sfr *tRef fra Mr % 

ti 

fofWTit: 

(l) E^TW (2) ipfV ( 3 ) faM ( 4 ) 
I!Et 4 (5) TfWT'TIH - (e) 'PYirV 
(7) rmTrw (s) ar^M (9) MV 
tft EFT % E 1 % SET ST^ff 5 ft f?tf 4 + 

f'FGT % f I 


9.25 8.50 7.75 7.00 6.25 




7.40 

0.80 0.20 
■* r\ ■v 

5. 60 

5. 00 

4. 90 

EM-fljERte 
4.50 4.10 

3. 70 

3.30 


E%w- — srfij^ETT % snrM % M — 

1. (^) ^3T ^ % $PTPTT Jptf, 3T5RETT, MfV, ECTE Tfk RTEtV % Mfff/ 
EwrMwf/m^ft atsff «£V qfcfsr rV 8 MVeM q?V % ser mfft rtet eeiM 
i 

(et) tfcr*rV-i % st^rettt, smk, |«t<isri?, *ph 5 t, *ffc vt wet! 
% MiV /eetetMtoV /eMV Etsff«pV qftfa ?r 8 MVoter e?V ^ft % ser %■ TT'rft 
eetM i 

(t) fr-2 % eeuVtt efttt, sht^ttr, etjt, sweet, eefjt, Ejrrf, ekMV, 
fltr ?r rtetV % Mtff rarfemf; eMV sfVrf «fV qlrfa tv 8 MVeVjt e*V $tV % *rr 
% TEfV FEET TEEM: ?1 fV I 

(*r) stenfV % srptt srsEft, teetjut, ttrt, w^fcr, s^g^tel, street, wM, 

'tETTTTrfV, tffRTETR, HWJT ?ER TT^, 5FETHT, EE^ETR, ?M, TEER, WER, SERtfT, 





rgo THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Past II— 


RWTr, wtZT ( YTpftYEEY ) , RETRTY, fafK, EftET, RTWTT, YTW, YErST, RlYTR, fERlf- 

ert r’IttIPey Enfr fEETEYT, Ernfr, reter, trpitY, ETRkt, ePtrtyt:, 

tfTEnpp EfETT, eyeO, rurt, sytyt, fEYTET, EfpTTW, Ykfr, eeep, yiet, ettyst, 

EtEjST, EETTYT, ETEYT7T, YEYTE, 3RT, YiElY, YEf.YE ( YiYiYlT ) 

HtET, TRY, E#rTT, YPEETT, ETRET, 3EYTE, EEEETElfRYT, fesEYR, »Pt-IET, 

k^IpT, t^T, iRt^, ^EfT, YTOeIYIE, frURTT, $RinE-3Y-RYt£YT, yu-iette 

tTT Y^fYJ, ^TR, JETT, 'ETfEYT (R7 Yt) ^EIRR, YtfkTT, ERtE-^ERTfr, fwi, EYTERT 
*rrftwRTT, yUe» 3 t, (jtrpte, gYRt-RiTETR, ^rrjt, ffYK, 513 ?, strut, tretr, 
^K-flW <, JERt-fE'JTT, ?t"1 T, EEEE 3 T, RETEET, RkfEk 'Tj’lE/T, 5R1J, 

tertjt, wrtY, rteet, etret, eTett, fmfr, ytyTetet, +UhjT«pp, ^rje, yirtyr, 
WTT, YHkpCY, YTYT, pMTHE, YRTTE, YtETTT YrRTT YkT Y'W, YTYTR, YTTT, YEW®!, 
YPRjdl, OTp, YtcRJT, JWR, RfEETET, EETE3T, RYRYTYT;, ErpR, YRTR, 
PT& Y i Y, YYEk, %T, JPpT, 5T7R, pHWiT, JJTTYTYTY, ^YYTYTEYT, fRYTTpC, ERTt, 
fT RIP I TIT, TfitTTT, -TYI 1-0, ETETYkR, EFlTYfaYY, EIRE?, ETfHY, ETRTsVy, EE^Rt, 
M' lE YplY , <RET, YTTE, YkEETT, TERTR, YPRTfH TYpR, 3 ft, YffrEfl, YIETYY, YSTEYk 
Yfkmrr , 'ftRkftE, tPupTi, yRre, ttey% Tkft, tryV, RRTgR, terty, ymphyp, 

TPIRT, TTYEPeT, TROT, TTETT, TJTE, sftERT, TER, ERE, ElETft-fETlE, nflMI3<, 
PfETElT, tftYT E5TET3T, WEfJTYT, ETRR, TfiRl’JR, EITTE3 T, EtrE]^, ETEfPjT, ?ETtEt, 
Ettt:, dR H k kt r^?3E, «rRifT, (eefjt) ErReepwE (WewVt), frnFjr, ftrkr- 
R%fr, g^ftYtfRT, €ReR, TFW, EE^EEER, RTTpt RETORT, fERYYTfT, (dEERT), 
fTRPHP<H , fWlWRcEET, (E(RER^EET), klER, tsjT, ETEYTT'a, pTYlfTET, YTER, 
WR, Rk 1 R PEEfr % EeeE /EYE n PRYUff /STEfT tW/e fE^fRR 8 IR e(e% eEt T?t 
tMt tYRkfkE % teet: % ?nfr rtet tetiTtr: i 

(y) Jr^ETftpTTEyPir=E<l ^EtRt^R3,Et-l,Et-2EkEt E RlkrfRT 

$ 1 

2- (y) R^YR YET YiJ fRR% EWRR tllYPI^ RlP Ek; f^I% YtE % f%3 rItYT 
EY jTMdl TT RE RE YT ^ETT ET fERgR E ^RT R^RR I 

(r) RRJYR YET EIJ % fRTEf JYRRT ET SETET Yt ETRT 7 A I fE% YET YT 
tEJEE 5RT JTPR fYET RET Rk Rt fYTft |iRR Y#EKt % Y?tRR ET EEK?!e fYET RT 
TT% ERT TTki RtffRR yJeRE^ YET TTItePrE | I 

(E) fYR YET Ef | fRR^f fRRRT ET RRRT RTC[ YET TT RE o RY SETT ET fR^ 
% YY if ET fYRt ^YfEYR ET SETWfEY TEETE ^ YfRRR 3TTT REE fYET RT R^T fRR% 
YRt ^ Y?R Rk: faEY E,% Yt RTYYTYET I 

3. YRpct ^EER TpRlTf IRT fE^YT E3 YRRlfTYt YT RT^ ^tEt | 
4 RR^^ ^ ^TETET ETt t fR PYRIYT RRt ET RT RTipft Rk: ^rJT PyRET % 
TERTf^Y fkr E?r ER^tr Rp RlfRR t I 

5. 18 O ET RT^ T -‘yPyT Y iR T Rk fETi’Y iEPYdYi' % fR^ RR^fl Yl 
^ETET E^PYE YY^t % ®ETE Y^YTTf Yt TfkT ETt % 7 0 YfRRR % YTIRT ift’fT 1 

[TPsYT 7(l)/69/3Ro SETpo RTf 1 (l)] 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 197I/PAUSA 12. 1892 i8l 


EEoETo 1921 — ^EEE ETO^fr EfafaTE, 1948 ( 1948EH ll) fa ERT 5 fa 
STOTTS 2) % ETE fadTO STITT 3 fa TOT-ERT ( 1 ) % EFR (et) 3RT STOW fafafa ’FT STEFT 
Eifa gQ.', fak EEE STRT fa EETORT ( 1 ) % 1TOR (et) % ESjfa Effa Eftfa fa EETfJ <R 
ffaTR Efa % ETTOE fasffa TOR Efaffa fa RTfa $ ftfafaE ^ EERT? EE*|fa if 

ffaifaro Enfarfafa % Efaf fat Efa er^tT fa tjjeee' ro tteesrt faro ERfa | far fafar 
Sfa | fa e? irfa^ro 1 9 e^, i 969 fal e^e faff i 


ifaffa fa ?rrot % far'm if EE^fa fa p^eee fat ee imfrrorr ffaro i 



Erof ee TOffaror 

farffar ERfat 
fa rJ jEflE fa 


(0 

(2) 


STf ete : 

(1) etot (2) far (3) erer (4) fafaR (5) wfasroF (e) 
fafaror (7) Ietor (s) fafa (9) fafaF (10) eep£t (jot/ 
Effarr) (11) rofa (12) fafarorfEr (13) sfa fasFF (14) 
MMTTfa (15) faro: (jur/fafaT) (ie) eteeto (jET/fa^Ei) 
(17) ^fr (is) ?ffa roror (19) ^tfa f^EE (20) fa? 
ettoeeto (21) eteY efto (22) fafa fa toe if +^1% 
to% 5 rro irofa fa mfvpr ffaro % 1 1 


^0^0 


2 . 40 


faijWE EfatrafaE : 

(1) EffaR (2) eetoto (3) E^fadE (4) far-far (5) Tfaf 3.20 
73TET ( 6) EER ( 7) fafalT (8) flR ( 9) aRRETOR (E^TEET) 

( 10) 'Frouror ( i i) farfaTOTTT ( 12) fafa ( 13) gfa f WMi 

(l4) FEETOR (l5) RITTER ( 1 6 ) TTOITfa ( 1 7 ) faT ETST TOR- 
TURF ( 18) EfaTTOTOT (^/fafaiT) ( 19) fa (20) ?fa (2l) 

farororr (22) fafar (23) etotr (24) '+rofaR (25) 

EPTOTfa (26) fatsror (27) + P 6 EK ( 28 ) fafa TOE *t E^Hfa 
far TOE srfa fa ElJ-fERT/E^E^r fat^TfaE ffaE % | | 


JTOT : 

(l) TOTER ( 2 ) EqR ( 3 ) Efa (4) ETfafar ( 5 ) RTOEEET ( 6 ) 4.80 

ETOTTORT: (7) ETOHJpTRT ( 8 ) EE 5 TT TOffE (9) ERTO TORT 
(10) totof (11) fanfar fErfa (12) faro: (13) fawr 
(l 4 ) RFE ffafa (15) faffa ( 16 ) ffafa ( 17 ) El% TORT 
(is) 5 RTRTO (19) farofaR ( 20 )faro (21) TO^Efaro 





182 the GAZETTE OF INDIA: IANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [Part II— 


( 1 ) 


(2) 


*5 o 


(22) flafep (23) (24) (25) (26) 

arcfaFjft (27) *mf TmFTT (28) feft ' 4 t TPT IT T!% 

'H r 4 ST^if ^ft Jj«<i< 4 ftnFR % ^ I 


%fer *nf : 

( 1 ) wfr ( 2 ) ftfo ( 3 ) TRT ( 4 ) wrtt ( 5 ) URTW 

(e) otto ( 7) ai^fro (8) feft »ft nro ft *nft *rt 
srspt ^ft fftfqfer fq^FR - % ?i 1 

...... 4.80 

. , . . . . 3.20 


waftvT«T — % snffer % fej — 

1. (*f) *mr $ ftrrft sramr nfeiiii smt sflr fftft ’Prft $ 

«ftfr ftV $i)K6r m sr^^r ^ft ^tt in fefw n 3>n srffffm i 

(<? ) ‘M'H $ fferft j>(i'fifli m ffmm qft 515 nrsr w[ fftft qm or 

am srm PtiAfi ^rrtj ?ftr isfr Ifeft "t> ‘taift % h 4 4 ^ft tt ft fen sn 
n% n*n snft »ft t > 

(*T ) 3} Vi <4 RT*T ^ Fdd ft JVI^di RT Qi+idl Ml^ fjfft ®MH TT W'JTnT JKi RT fw$£ 

% w Jr in feft m apnnnftFF ftsnm ft srfem am fen m n% *ftr 

fel% RTTft ft 4^H 'h'i i ^Pj ft ’HidKM'Tidl fit I 

2. ft ^i?pt iprf Jr fn- fwrrr nftt aftT m arrftift *ftr *nft femr f 
nnmf^F fer vft ftt srrfftn $ 1 

[ftsn o[n° y*to mf- 4/ 13 / 68-mi] 


^TTo m° 1922 — srfijfenr 1948 (l948 *PT ll) OTTI 

5 qft WITT (2) %nw qfsn nm 3 qftsn-um ( 1) % law (*$) am srcTr nfenft 
^nife^r^^^^nnmRfV^wn ( 1) %uw (^) $ nftftr nfsn nfftfft qft nm^ 
qr fftm qnft % <mnn %*sfrr *mfTR t it? for, arfenss, fenn, ^ ornf % feftfer 
(fn% wmz ^ fenfes qnfefeft % snnf ^ n^n msr^Y ft ^ddH tt t^am 
fem Rmft | ?ftr fifer | f% ^ nfn^rr 1 9 nf, 1 969 ft jfjtt 1 





tec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 


183 




RTR ST ^ffwr Rfafof RST^ft 

( o I Z ( 2 ) Z 

TJo 

ff g jsm : 

3 R*ft SRTf Tt STR ’fft ftrft tft $Eft #jft if fRRtfRR $ 

Tt R^R-r fTRR | R% $ $ ft^fr »ft RTR ft JSTf: RTTT . 2.40 

sr&prw/? ifw : 

( 1 ) (f-flSTITT (2) RcRtitaT ( 3) fwt tfr RTR ft +j£<4M RT% TR 3.20 
Tt Rtf PtitH % ^ I 

fiJTT 

( 1 ) 3TCRT TOT (2) falft tft RtR ft Rift *FR SP'pf Rt 4.80 

fatR % $ I 

fftfap : 

( 1 ) fafar ( 2 ) dRf'Ud ( 3 ) mvjfrfw ( 4 ) ijsft ( 5 ) fen- rV 
RTR ft Rift RT wf Tt ffrfRS?tR fSRR % $ I 

*}^%d . . . . . . 4.80 

TFT-^tT^R: . . . . . . 3.20 

r}wh;s ®£t isttr 

RJHM : 

( l) RTfaRRTR ( 2 ) faRt *ft RTR ft 4^ I ^ 2.60 

fSRR % ^ I 

RlffW/RfSPr TftT^FT : 

(l) ilZ (2) *|TTR (3) ^SSTT (4) R440R ( 5 ) R^TRR JRR1 3.45 
rest (6) frtfr tft rtr % R?RTft rt^t *fr rr^ Rt rr>rt 
% S 1 
: 

^osipon % % RRt rrr ^ft str s?r fsrfr *ft fftft #jfr r Pnftf^r | 5.20 

Rt $RtR f*fRR Sfft $ R% t foRf RTR ft RTlj I 
ftfPw RR : 

(l) fafW ( 2 ) 3T^fNT3T ( 3 ) HfTT^fetw ( 4 ) ijtft ( 5 ) Mt Rt 
RTR ft RRJRFt RTvt W*X STRif oft fr l Pp^ R fRRR % f I 
^l-M'd' ...... 5.20 

. . . . . , 3.45 



184 THE GAZETTE OF JNDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part II 



fFFFT ^Tf <3 1 

sr$vm : 

( 1 ) ftfiftf ( 2 ) jnfrwmT m r ( 3 ) ( 4 ) w 

zz, fett itt isrft) ( s) fftt ( 6) fife fwnr ( 7 ) f¥nr vft fft 
% f^ftf ft% f?f ff 4 Ft f%w % 1 1 

rfFH 14^^11 : 

( 1 ) i)F ( 2 ) $FF ( 3 ) WFT fW)5I< ( 4 ) isi^r ( 5 ) HF) j IVIMT 
qfw: ( e) t44w<f ( 7 ) fcFt tft f^ftf ft% sff ff) 
sfr inJfHH ft fjvim Pptr % i 

F7VFT : 

(l) ( 2 ) FT^T 3f ( 3 ) fFFHt fFF#T ( 4 ) TFFH ? 1 ( 5 ) 

HTT'I'lfTT^ (6) Ftft H-4M+ (7) FfFFF WEFTS' (s) FfiFFr 
q fr r fr r ( 9 ) lanr fFFft ( 1 o) FF-FtFrfFFT ( 1 1 ) f3htf#f 
( 12 ) ftft ( 13 ) ( 14 ) (is) 

[q<4\ 'TFT it Ti b H 1 T qi?i nq4 Ft jvis Pt>tn % ft I 

faftFT *Ff : 

(l) (2) HT^FW (3) WTTfWRTV ( 4 ) WTWfHpPF ( 5 ) 

FFFFTF ( 6) WtHF Wfm ( 7) FTWTW FfTT-f-i FTFft ( 8) 

jjvft ( 9 ) fefr Ft ftf tT ft% f?f rf 4 st fferPnuir f%w 
% 1 1 

...... 

f TH-fl^l 5 tj? 1 li ...... 


fo 4° 


2.60 


3. 45 


5.20 


5.20 
3. 45 


FH FfstgFFT % SFTtFF % fS^t FF^tFWF — 

1. (Tl) ■CT^m FFT Ff | faFF FTEfTW #WTtr FT^ FtT sr} % M 

«fF#v Tfr F^rorr ft f^ff ft ftFr in ft f ftFT ^rf^ra- ft i 

(’sr) fiIftvm fff Ft? fFFF $vMdi ^tt shift fist ffj fF% ftf tt 
m’iff 5to q iki Ptfi ft F tr ^ft Mr jvft ^hfi Cl 4> T44^r°r ft f i4fvif f (*69 i ft 
F% FFT ^FF F&JFfFT FFFSFftF FFT Ft f I 

(it) glVk'l *PTF Ff ^ faFF 't'VlMdl FT SlOdl F 1 u , FTF IT SKI fSTS| % TFT 

if ITT font ^FpHFT FT iHKFlPlF FTFTF F ErffreTH 5TTT TTfRT fw Tl% ?fk f^Fl% 

f t^t srk ^ ft i 

2. FUjCt ^t ^FdF FTf F fFFFFT F^ft ^ SF ^TT^ft FTT RTT FPFFT % 
FFFTffFl f5F ^t FF^[Ct Ft Vi lin'd ^ I 


[FFFTfHo TOJo 5 TTh<> 1 — 4 ( 1 3 ) / 6 S-FT^] 




Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 185 


wio 1923. — iifirta, 1948 (1948 tt 11 ) »ft mrr 5 

3 WU (2) 3 TRT STTH Vlfwff TT SRTR gjr, sfft: WRJ «T*T 

ftaPTTT WTHT ^t^ry^HT TRSTT Wo WT° 1933 8 Op, 196 5 Tt WftRWT TTcT 

sjit <r«rr tw Trfirfaw *ft etttt s’ft ^r-ym (i) % (t) % snfrr *Tfer 

TT fwTR ^ ^ 'FWRj;, TOR, 5fTWT*£ f^'RTR *ft STFTf R 1 ' ftfftftRr 

ttrs spj^fr t frfRf^r +'^i[ujT % sM Tt *RTfft *ft sr i^bttt 

Ptw TRoft % Tflr ^ fr' mr wfy^m i9*r^, 1 969 tT rrw sjWt 1 


WIT TT TfffTRRT 

JiRrto 

(1) 

(2) 

I. ^krcfdw *ft ^f 

TTJf VTH : 

(1) (5w/6-r?? rr) (2) for (s^/irf^n) (3) f¥rr: (4) 

Ho $• 

2 . 40 

t^it 

( 1) «rfRT-r^-RiK^ wr (2) srfar (3) *rrc^ *tht / an^ft (jw/ 

3 . 20 

^%tt) (4) 

fifFT : 

(l) JUftfatf TTH* ..... 

4.80 

II. *ft STT^ 

l) (5^/iTf^tT) (2) R^^TTR (3) Tift TMT (4) 

2 . 60 

fwr (5w/Rf^n) (5) 'RTurfl- ( 6 ) ot$+'vi (7) Prht 

(1) ’afar (2) tottt (3) 'J^ 4 i 1 d«b (wfe ttw ttr 

3.45 

TP-TT) ( 4 ) !fr>IR 9 ^ *mT ( 5) WT RfCBT ( 6 ) T^ft ( 7 ) 

SMM* R 44 MK ( 8 ) (9) WTtSFF ( 10) 

yTft r - 3 < (11) ’frftr (12) WIT 

: 

(1) (2) <ftsr (3) yRTn TraT (4) (5) 

5. 20 

(e) TTW (7) ( 8 ) ifTTR (9) W VTTW 

(lo) ^STTTRW (ll) TPTfTITT ( 12 ) fW^ft 
( 1 3 ) 'TRT tftT TmT WTOT 








186 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Past 11— 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


IH. fTO 

(l) (gw/R%rr) (2) (3) fwr (5 w/e%tt) 2.60 

(4) fEER (5) T^R (6) TEft TEE (l) UTT^RT (j^?/ 

Tf^OT) (g) ^REft 

«nl$vr 5f/*J$spjr : 

(l) ETETR (2) (3) %*R (4) (5) fTfrcETEE 3,45 

qf^R (s) qf^ER (7) Rftw 

*gRT 5 T : 

( 1 ) fTO ew^ ( 2 ) e^ett tw ( 3 ) 3%fEEi ( 4 ) 5.20 

TOPE ( 5 ) EEI-EF (e) STT ( 7 ) ^ HTq^RT 

'TfT'R (8) TTRfERift ( 9 ) STETfET (lo) #*WT (ll) SRET- 
toe ( 12 ) to: tier te* tot ( 13 ) ffer ( 14 ) fm 
TpTTT ( 15 ) TFT TpRR (16) tJ^R (l7) rfrC (l8) 

(19) TETOWT (20) WMpiirftEr TOT Ef EfRR 

$E STfsT^TET % EEtRE % %T El^TR'E — 

1 . (*f) ejw tot t? $ fror totee uT^Nint tot f^i% tr-"? $ fan* «fr#f 

jtoe et e^et tt $et et frefE spTfcr 1 

(^r) TO^pEE TOT T*[ $ faro JEERT ET eiTEET *6V TOT TOT fE% TOT EE 
E^EE 3TRI STFff fTOT inuT eV<. Et PfETt 3>aiE TEET^t ^ E44<ti u l ET Hi4dvM E [4iqi 
ET E% EET RT TOfalEE I RTE$R?fE' TOT lift f I 

(e) EjEE TTE Tf ^ PWT ^EEET ET EEET fE% 'ME ER TOPEE 1 8TRT ET 
% t£E E ET tqrfrW ET SETEETfEE ETTOT E srfTOW JRT TOE fW ET H% eH 
*T E% ER^ E 9 <i<l ^ftr l "4 4 r + Et STTT'PTTETT ^t I 

2 . E?t t^RTE Tff E JE fEEIER EEt TO ETTTEt sffc *EE fETOE % TOIlf^ 

for Eft EEjft tft unfEE 1 1 

[EWT ^ o -5 ^,1 o TfT^-TT^ - 4 ( 1 3 ) / 6 8 — TR] 
I^Efo WET, TT^TT TTt%T i 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

[Office Of the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central)] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 

S, O- 97— W'liKis an application has been made under section 19(b) of the Payment o 
Bonus Act, 1965 by Messrs Vasu’s Mining Works (employer) in relation to their establifi ntr 
mentioned in the Schedule belowfor extension ofthe period for the payment of bonus to thei 
employees for the accounting year ending on 31-3-1970. 





Sec. 3(H)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 187 


And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient reasons to extend the time I have, in exer- 
cise of the powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b) of Section 19 of the said Act read 
with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour & Employment No. 
Wfl-20(4i)/65 dated the 28th August, 1965, passed orders on 3-12-1970 extending the period for 
payment of the said bonus by the said employer by two months (f.e. upto ai-1-1971) from the last 
date for payment of bonus under clause (b) of Section 19 of the Act. 


Maw this is paa'ishsd for in").- nation of tho employer and all the empiu/ectt ot tne said estab 
llshment. 


The Schedule 


Name and address of the employer(s) 


Establishment^) 


M/s. Vasu’s Mining Works, Udamalpet, P. O. Moongiltholuvu, Kcngalnagartm ard Ichi- 
Coimbatore, Dist (Tamil Nadu). patti, Gypsum Mines, Udamalpet. 


[No. BA-5(24)/70-LSI ] 

O. VENKATACHALAM, 
Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 


Ttomr farrm) 

(»j?t sr*r mTO (vnfk) tt virtan,) 

fkvTt, 7 fTTRR, 197 0 


vro wto 97. — tt^st tt#pt ttt (fTTfar) it Tt% # 

f qfWcT OTT TTTTTf £ 'grqfSf Jr 3 1—3— 1 970 TTIR arr^ T<r fir^- 
*PFt TtfTTffd't tfit *rpTT % TTTT =fit TdVtnftl' Tit *T?Ft % STlTT TT1T TfafTTT, 

1965 mu 19 (is) % Tiftr ttttt f^qT $ i 


ttt: trtstpt tit ntt it f*F wr 3#t % frr irfr tttt tkt 

RL'hK % NT nfk LNTR tfePTT *fit Tfsi^TTT TT° # t-20 (42)/ 65 
2 8 UTO, 19 65 ^ TTT TfetT TW # EUTT 1 9 % P? (^) % TR£F 5TTi 

^ #W£ff 3 - 12 - 70 ^^fT 5 i> 31 TS'RITW iitdT £ TTR Tit 

tfiqirftr qft TfsrfTTT *ht tun 19 % T&ftr srtrr £ irw Tit TfaiT nr'dq' 

% 2 T^f (TTttj; 31-1-1971 TT) ^TFT TT TltsT ^ ft[TT f 1 


TTT ^Tt Ttcl wm % 
fodT "vfldi (T I 


Ft-Lyt TTt TTTTfrrt ^ imfsitr 

TPT^ft 


TT TR tYt TUT 


?RTT 


TfTCT TRM TTffRT TFT, dSHMtd', T>o 
TTo tptTRJT, fTo Tf'TTTT? 

i\ \3 


T'TTtlr; #iwrt Tftr tt^v, 

fTTR TTSR, T 5 -H tl'i i 
[T° Tto Tto-5(24)/70 ^ 

TTto ferTTT, 

R5T NT TT^TfT ( %>sld ) 


PILNlBD BY IHE GENERAL MANAGER GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, MtNTO ROAD, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI. 1 tP** 








