


uaitmto no, o-iii 


3fRcT M 

(Hie (Baxetteof Jjndia 

■ .....n . . . .. ^ — - 


vjvfVi*K uu-nfiUH 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


4 ? 


Ho 42] 

No. 42] 


famt, XTpTWTT, 13, 1965 («pT??rf: 22, 1887) 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


*mr 3 f»r^ *{*& hwi antft $ fa *FTff *f*r*Fi % ^ wr ^ ifa 

Separate paging is given to this Part in order that it may be filed as a separate compilation 

?tft III — 3 
PART III— SECTION 3 

mrratff $ rifffsrff arfa^rntr 

Notifications relating to Minor Administrations 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Department of Company Affairs & Insurance 
(Company Law Board) 

Office of the Registrar of Campanles 

In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956, and of 
Pondy Bone Mills Private Limited 

Pondicherry, the 2&th October 1965 

No. C.54 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub-section (5) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Pondy Bone Mills Private Limit- 
ed has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said company is dissolved. 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956, and of 
Majestic Transport Private Limited 

Pondicherry, the 28 th October 1965 

No. 58 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub-section (5 ) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Majestic Transport Private Limit- 
ed has this day been struck off the Register and the said 
company is dissolved. 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956, and of 
Ramakrishna Industries Private Limited 

Pondicherry, the 29 th October 1965 

No. 17 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub-section (5) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Ramakrishna Industries Private 
Limited has this day been struck off the Register and the 
said company is dissolved. 


In the matter of the Companies Act, 1956, and of 
Friends’ Union Transport Private Limited 

Pondicherry, the 29th October 1965 

No, 37 — Notice is hereby given pursuant to 
sub-section (5) of section 560 of the Companies Act, 
1956 that the name of Friends Union Transport LimiLed 
has this day been struck off the Register and the said 
company is dissolved. 

N. KRISHNAMURTM 
Registrar of Companies, 
Pondicherry 

( 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN & DIU 
Finance Department 

Patijlm, the 20 th November 1964 

No. FS/ F. 111/ 11-1 1 8/64/ 20583 — In pursuance of the 
provisions contained in sections 5 and 8 of the Goa, 
Daman and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964, Government 
hereby prescribes the maximum quantity of liquor which 
can be transported from one place to another within 
this territory or, as the case may be, possessed by any 
person, without a permit issued In accordance with the 
provisions of the said Act and the Rules made thereunder: 

12 quart bottles of Indian made foreign liquor other 
than beer and 24 Bottles of beer for any person includ- 
ing his family. 

12 quart bottles of country liquor for any person 
including his family. 

6 quart bottles of denatured spirit and 2 quart bottles 
of rectified spirit or absolute alcohol. 

By order and in the name of the 
Lieutenant Governor of Goa, Daman & 
Diu. 

The 30th March 1965 

No. FS/ F.III/ 2-35/64/ 226-DA / 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 42 of 
Goa, Daman, and Diu Excise Duty Act. 1964, the Go- 
vernment hereby exempts the import of denatured spirit 
by all Hospitals in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman 
and Diu from the payment of countervailing duty of 
excise if any, leviable thereon as well as permit fee 
prescribed for import licence. 

T. B. NAGARAJAN 
Finance Secretary 


Panjim, the 12th July 1965 

No. FS/ F.III/ 2-35/ pari/ 65 — In partial modification 
of Notification No. FS/F.III/11-118/ 64/20583 dated the 
20th November, 1964 and in pursuance of the provision 
contained in Section 8 of the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Excise Duty Act, 1964, the Government hereby pros- 
cribes the maximum quantity of country liquor which 
can be possessed by any person, without permit issued 
in accordance with the provisions of the said Act and 
the Rules made thereunder : — 

18 quart bottles of country liquor for any person 
including his family. 

7) 


M328GI/65 


118 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III— Sec. 3 


Panjim, the 10 th September 1965 


This Notification comes into force with immediate 
effect. 

By order and in the name of the Ad- 
ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

The 10 th September 1965 

No. FS/F, Ill/ 2-35/ part/ 17 68/ 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-section ( 1 ) of Section 42 of the 
Goa, Daman, and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964, the Go- 
vernment hereby exempt from payment of excise duty 
all kinds of liquor when offered as gift to the Armed 
Forces of India. 

This notification comes into force with effect from 10th 
September, 1965. 

The 17th September 1965 

No. FS/ F .111/ 2-35/ part/ 1512/ 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by clause (i) of Section 2 of the Goa, 
Daman and Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964 and clause (f ) of 
Rule 2 of the Goa Daman and Diu Excise Duty Rules, 
1964, the Government hereby declares “Vodka” as Indian 
made foreign liquor. 

No. FD/ F .111/2-35/ part/ 1321 / 65 - — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 36 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 and all other powers enabling 
it in that behalf the Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Rules 1964 the same having been previouly published 
as required by the said section. 

1. These rules may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Sales Tax (First Amendment) Rules, 1965. 

2. For rule 22 of the said rules the following shall be 
substituted : — 

22. Issue of cash memos or bills in respect of taxable 
goods sold by the dealer. 

In respect of every sale of taxable goods made by 
him a registered dealer shall, except as hereinafter pro- 
vided issue a cash memo or bill and retain the duplicate 
of such bill or cash memo which shall be serially num- 
bered, duly signed and dated and shall show separately 
the price of the goods sold and the amount realised by 
way of tax : 

Provided, however, that when the price of the taxable 
goods sold in any one transaction is below Rs. 2 a dealer 
may, except when demanded by a customer, refrain from 
issuing a cash memo or bill as aforesaid but shall instead 
prepare a consolidated cash memo at the close of the 
day in respect of all such sales by recording them sepa- 
rately as and when they are effected. 

By order and in the name of the Ad- 
ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

The 20 th September 1965 

No. FD/ F. 111/2-35/ part/ 1327/ 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 22 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Excise duty Act, 1964, the Government hereby askes 
the following additional rule to “The Goa, Daman and 
Diu (Excise Duty) Rules, 1964”. 

Rule 122 : Delay in payment of licence fees. 

When any annual licence fee or its instalment, as the 
case may be, is not paid within the period prescribed 
under these Rules, it shall be lawful to collect from the 
licences an additional amount equivalent to 2% of such 
licence fee or instalment for each month of delay or its 
fraction or rupee one whichever is higher, without preju- 
dice to Clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 16 of 
the principal Act. 

By order and in the name of the Ad- 
ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

The 28th September 1965 

No. FD/ F. Ill/ 2-36/ part/ 1630/ 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by. sub-Section (2) of Section 10 of the 
Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964, read with 
Notification No, 7/3/65-UTL of the Government of 
India, Ministry of Home Affairs, dated 14th April, 1965 
the Administrator of Goa, Daman and Diu hereby makes 
the following addition to the entries in the Second 
Schedule to the said Act. 

"Tractors”. 

By order and in the name of the Ad- 
ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

N. SUB RAM AN IAN 
Finance Secretary 


No. FD/F .111/2-36/ 1093/ part/ 65 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by Section 36 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Act, 1 964 and all other powers enabling it 
in that behalf the Government hereby makes the following 
amendment to the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax 
Rules, 1964 the same having been previously published 
as required by the said section, 

1, These rules be called “the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Rules, 1965”. 

2. For Rule 15(6) of the said rules the following shall 
be substituted. 

“In calculating the taxable turnover, a registered 
dealer, besides other deductions referred to in the 
Act and those rules, may also deduct from his 
gross turnover the amount in respect of sales other 
than liquor and other alcholic beverages of Canteen 
Stores which are shown to the satisfaction of the 
■ Assessing Authority to have been made to the mem- 
bers of Armed Forces of the Indian Union stationed 
in the territory, when such sales are made by re- 
gimental or unit-run Canteens, and provided that 
the Stores are obtained from the Canteen Stores 
Department (India) and their sales price does not 
exceed the sale price fixed by the Quarter Master”. 

By order and in the name of the Ad- 
ministrator of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

V. S. SRTNIVASAGOPALAN 
Dy. Secretary ( Finance ) 


Legislature Department 

Panjim, the 16th September 1964 

No. TA/763/64. — The following Act passed by the 
Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu received 
the assent of the President of India on the 2nd Septem- 
ber 1964, and is hereby published for general informa- 
tion. 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU SALES TAX ACT, 
1964 

No. 4 of 1964 [2nd September 1964] 

An Act to impose a tax on the sale of goods in Goa, 
Daman and Diu and to provide for matters connected 
therewith. 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, 
Daman and Diu in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic 
of India, as follows 

Short title, extent and commencement. 

1. (1) This Act may be called the Goa, Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964, 

(2) It extends to the whole of 4he Union Terri- 
tory of Goa, Daman and Diu, 

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the 
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, 
appoint and different dates may be appointed for 
different areas or different goods. 

Definitions. 

2, In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— 

(a) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner of 
Sales Tax appointed under sub-section (1) of section 3; 

lb) “dealer” means any person who carries on the 
business of selling goods in Goa, Daman and Diu and 
includes, the Government of India, or of any State, or of 
any Union Territory. 

Explanation 1. A Hindu undivided family, a firm and 
any other association of persons whether incorporated or 
not will be deemed to be a person for the purpose of 
this definition. 

Explanation 2. A co-operative society or a club or 
any association of persons, which sells goods to its mem- 
bers is a dealer; 

Explanation 3. A factor, a broker, a commission agent, 
delcredere agent, an auctioneer or any other mercantile 
agent, by whatever name called, and whether of the 
same description as hereinbefore mentioned or not, who 
carries on the business of selling goods and who 
has, in the customary course of business, authority to 
sell’ goods belonging to a principal, is a dealer; 



119 


Paht III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Explanation 4. The manager or an agent in Goa, 
Daman and Diu, of a dealer who resides outside Goa, 
Daman and Diu but carries on the business of selling 
goods in Goa, Daman and Diu shall, in respect of such 
business, be deemed to be a dealer; 

(c) “Goa, Daman and Diu" means the Union Ter- 
ritory of Goa, Daman and Diu; 

(d) “goods" includes all materials, commodities and 
articles but does not include newspapers, actionable 
claims, stocks, shares, securities or money; 

( e ) "Government” means Government of Goa, 
Daman and Diu; 

(/) “manufacture” with all its grammatical variations 
and cognate expressions means any process of produc- 
ing, making, extracting, altering, ornamenting, finishing 
or otherwise processing, treating or adapting any goods; 

( 8 ) "Official Gazette” means the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Gazette; 

(A) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made 
under this Act; 

(i) “raw materials" mean goods which go into and 
form part of the finished product and include materials 
which are consumed in the process of manufacture. 

(1) “registered” means registered under this Act; 

( k ) “sale” with its grammatical variations and cognate 
expressions, means any transfer of property in goods 
by one person to another for cash or deferred payment 
or other valuable consideration, and includes a transfer 
of goods on hire-purchase or other system of payment 
by instalments, but does not include a mortgage or 
hypothecation of or a charge or pledge on goods; 

Explanation. — A sale or purchase of goods shall be 
deemed to take place inside Goa, Daman and Diu if 
the goods are within that territory — 

(i) in the case of specific or ascertained goods, 
at the time the contract of sale is made; and 

(ii) in the case of unascertained or future goods, 
at the time of their appropriation to the con- 
tract of sale by the seller or by the buyer, 
whether assent of the other party is prior or 
subsequent to such appropriation; 

(/) “Sale-price” means the amount payable to a 
dealer as consideration for the sale of any goods, ex- 
cluding any sum allowed as cash discount according to 
the practice normally prevailing in the trade, but inclu- 
sive of any sum charged for anything done by the dealer 
in respect of the goods at the time of or before the 
delivery thereof, other than the cost of freight or delivery 
or the cost of installation in cases where such cost is 
separately charged; 

(m) “turnover” used in relation to any period means 
the aggregate of the sale-prices or parts of sale prices 
receivable, or if a dealer so elects, actually received, by 
the dealer during such period after deducting the 
amounts, if any, refunded by the dealer in respect of 
any goods returned by the purchaser within such period ; 

Provided that an election as aforesaid once made shall 
not be altered except with the permission of the Com- 
missioner and on such terms and conditions as he may 
think fit to impose; 

(n) “year” means the financial year commencing on 
the first of April. 

Taxing Authorities. 

3. (1) For carrying out the purposes of this Act ; the 
Government may appoint a person to be Commissioner 
of Sales Tax, and such other persons to assist him as 
it thinks fit. 

(2) Persons appointed under sub-section (1) shall 
exercise such powers as may be conferred, and perform 
such duties as may be required, by or under this Act. 

(3) All persons appointed under sub-section (1) shall 
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of 
section 21 of the Indian Penal Code. 

Incidence of tax. 

4. (1) With effect from such date as the Government 
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, 
being not earlier than thirty days after the date of the 
said notification, every dealer whose gross turnover 


during the year immediately preceding the commence- 
ment of this Act exceeded the taxable quantum shall 
be liable to pay tax under this Act on all sales effected 
after the date so notified : 

Provided that a dealer who deals exclusively in one or 
more classes of goods specified in the second schedule 
shall not be liable to pay any tax under this Act. 

(2) Every dealer to whom sub-section (1) does not 

apply, shall, if his gross turnover calculated from the 

commencement of any year exceeds the taxable quan- 
tum at any time within such year, be liable to pay tax 
under this Act, on the expiry of two months from the 
date on which such gross turnover first exceeds the tax- 
able quantum, on all sales effected after such expiry. 

(3) Every dealer who has become liable to pay tax 

under this Act shall continue to be so liable until the 

expiry of three consecutive years, during each of which 

his gross turnover has failed to exceed the taxable 
quantum and such further period after the date of such 
expiry as mav be prescribed, and on the expiry of this 
latter period his liability to pay tax shall cease. 

(4) Every dealer whose liability to pay tax under 
this Act has ceased under the provisions of sub-section 
(3), shall, if his gross turnover calculated from the com- 
mencement of any year again exceeds the taxable quan- 
tum at any time within such year, be liable to pay such 
tax on the expiry of two months from the date on which 
such gross turnover again first exceeds the taxable quan- 
tum on all sales effected after such expiry. 

(5) In this Act, the expression ‘taxable quantum’ 
means — 

(a) in relation to any dealer who imports for sale 

any goods into Goa, Daman and Diu or manu- 
factures or produces any goods for sale, 
regardless of the value of the goods imported, 
manufactured or produced, ten thousand 
rupees; . % 

( b ) in relation to any other dealer, thirty thousand 
rupees : 

Provided that if the Government is of opinion that 
having regard to the difficulty in maintaining accounts 
or other sufficient cause the taxable quantum in respect 
of any class of dealers falling under clause (a) should 
be increased, the Government may fix in respect of 
such class of dealers such taxable quantum, not exceed- 
ing thirty thousand rupees, as may be specified in the 
notification. 

Liability after cancellation of registration. 

5. Any dealer whose certificate of registration granted 
under sections 11, 12, 13 or 14 has been cancelled shall, 
if his gross turnover calculated from the commencement 
of any vear or from any date within the year exceeds 
the taxable quantum at any time, within such year, be 
liable to pay such tax on the expiry of two months from 
the date on which such gross turnover again first ex- 
ceeds the taxable quantum on all sales, effected after 
such expiry, of goods imported from outside Goa, 
Daman and Diu or manuaftetured therein. 

Liability of dealers registered under Central Sales Tax 

Act. 

6. Every dealer shall, notwithstanding that he is not 
liable to pav tax under any of the sub-sections (11 to (4) 
of section 4 or section 5, be liable to pay tax under this 
Act so long as he is registered under the Central Sales 
Tax Act. 1956. on all sales effected bv him or on his 
behalf within Goa, Daman and Diu on or after the date 
of his liability or the date of his registration, whichever 
is earlier, under the Central .Sales Tax Act aforesaid; 

Provided that no tax shall be payable in respect of 
sales in any period prior to the commencement of this 
Act. 

Rate of Tax. 

7. (11 The tax payable by a dealer under this Act 
shall be levied on the taxable turnover at the following 
rates, namely : — 

(a) in respect of goods specified in the First 
Schedule, at the rate of ten paise in the 
rupee; 

(b) in respect of goods sDecified in the Third 
Schedule, at the rate of two paise in the rupee; 

(c) in respect of any other goods, at the rate of 
five paise in the rupee; 



120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


Provided that the Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, add to, or omit from, or other- 
wise amend the First and the Third Schedules, without 
affecting the entries in the Second Schedule. 

Provided further that if in respect of any goods or 
class of goods the Government is of opinion that it is 
expedient in the interest of the general public so to do, 
it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that 
the tax in respect of the taxable turnover of such goods 
or class of goods shall, subject to such conditions as may 
be specified, be levied at such modified rate not exceed- 
ing the rate- applicable under this sub-section as may 
be specified in the notification. 

(2) The Government or any other person authorised 
in this behalf may permit dealers, in such circumstances 
and under such conditions as may be prescribed, to 
compound the tax assessable on their taxable turnover 
under the provisions of this Act by paying in lieu there- 
of a lump sum in such manner as may be prescribed. 

(3) In this Act, the expression “taxable turnover” 
means that part of a dealer’s gross turnover during any 
period whicn remains after deducting therefrom his 
turnover during that period on — 

(I) the sale of goods declared tax-free under section 

10 ; 

(ID sales to a registered dealer- 

fa) of goods of the class or classes specified in the 
certificate of registration of such dealer, as 
being intended for — 

(i) re-sale by him within Goa, Daman and 
Diu; 

(ii) re-sale by him in the course of interstate 
trade or commerce; 

(iii) re-sale in the course of export out of 
India or re-sale after such export; or 

(iv) used by him as raw materials in the 
manufacture of goods for sale, and 

(b) of containers or other materials for the pack- 
ing of goods of the class or classes so speci- 
fied for sale : 

Provided that no deduction shall be allowed unless 
the dealer who sells the goods furnishes in the pres- 
cribed manner — 

(a) in the case of sales falling within sub-items 
(i) and (iv) of item (a) and within item (b), 
a declaration duly filled up and signed by the 
registered dealer to whom the goods arc sold 
and containing the prescribed particulars in the 
prescribed form; and 

( b ) in the case of sales falling within sub-items 
(li) and (iii) of item (a), a certificate in the 
prescribed form from the dealer to whom the 
goods are sold, that the goods are purchased 
for re-sale in the course of inter-state trade 
or commerce or for re-sale in the course of 
export out of India or for re-sale after such 
export, and that such goods will be so re-sold 
by himself or by any other registered dealer 
to whom he re-sells the goods within nine 
months from the date of such purchase or 
such futher period as may be prescribed : 

Provided further that where any goods specified in the 
certificate of registration are purchased by a registered 
dealer for any of the purposes specified in item fa), 
but are utilized by him for any other purpose, or are 
not re-sold in the manner and within the period pres- 
cribed the price of the goods so purchased 
shall be allowed to be deducted from the gross turnover 
of the selling dealer but shall be included in the taxable 
turnover of the purchasing dealer; 

(III) sales of goods which are specified by the Gov- 
ernment under section 8 as goods taxable at the first 
point and which are made by any dealer other than the 
manufacturer or importer, provided that in the case of 
such sales proof of payment of tax at the first point 
is adduced to the satisfaction of the Commissioner. 

(TV) sales to any undertaking supplying electrical 
energy to the public under a licence or sanction granted 
or deemed to have been granted under the Indian Elec- 
tricity Act, 1910, of goods for use by it in the genera- 
tion or distribution of such energy; 


(V) sales of goods which are shown to the satis- 
faction of the Commissioner to have been despatched 
hy, or on behalf of the dealer to an address outside 
Goa, Daman and Diu; 

(VI) such other sales as may be prescribed. 

Point at which sales may be taxed. 

8. The tax payable under this Act shall be levied 
on the taxable turnover at the point of sale to the 
consumer or to a person other than a registered dealer : 

Provided that the Government may, by notification 
in the Official Gazette, specify the first or any other 
point of sale in the series of sales of successive dealers, 
as the point at which any goods or class of goods may 
be taxed. 

Burden of proof. 

9. The burden of proving that in respect of any sale 
effected by a dealer he is not liable to pay tax under 
this Act shall he on him. 

Tax-free goods. 

10. (1) No tax shall be payable under this Act on 
the sale of goods specified in the Second Schedule, 
subject to the conditions and exception, if any, set out 
therein. 

(2) The Central Government may, by notification 
in the Gazette of India, add to, omit from or other- 
wise amend the entries in the Second Schedule. 

Registration of dealers. 

11. (1) No dealer shall, while being liable to pay 
tax under section 4 of this Act, carry on business as 
a dealer unless he has filed an application in accordance 
with sub-section (2) or has been registered and posses- 
ses a registration certificate under this Act. 

(2) Every dealer required by sub-section (1) to be 
registered shall make application in this behalf in the 
prescribed manner and within the prescribed time to 
the prescribed authority. 

(3) If the said authority is satisfied that the applica- 
tion for registration is in order, he shall, in accordance 
with such rules as may be prescribed, register the appli- 
cant and grant him a certificate of registration in the 

rescribed form which shall specify all his places of 
usiness and the class or classes of goods, for the pur- 
pose of clause (II) of sub-section (3) of section 7. 

(4) The prescribed authority may from time to time 
amend any certificate of registration in accordance with 
information furnished under section 23 or otherwise 
received. 

(5) The Commissioner may, for good and sufficient 
reasons, demand from a registered dealer or from a 
person who has applied for registration under this 
Act : — 

(i) reasonable security for the proper payment 
of tax payable by him under this Act; 

(ii) reasonable security for the proper custody and 
use of the forms referred to in the first pro- 
viso to clause (II) of sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 7 which may be given to him by the 
prescribed authority. 

(6) When any dealer has been convicted or has paid 
composition money under section 32, in respect of anj 
contravention of sub-section (1) of this section, the 
prescribed authority shall register such dealer and gran! 
him a certificate of registration, and such registration 
shall take effect as if it had been made under sub- 
section (3) of this section on the dealer's application. 

(7) When— 

(a) any business in respect of which a certiflcatt 
has been granted to a dealer on an applica 
tion made, has been discontinued or trans 
ferred, or 

(£>) a dealer has ceased to be liable to pay taj 
under section 4 of this Act, 

the Commissioner shall cancel the registration. 

(8) The Commissioner may at any time for reasom 
to be recorded in writing and after giving the deale 
an opportunity of being heard, cancel any certificate o 
registration. 



Part III— Sec. 3] 


121 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Voluntary registration. 

12. (1) Any dealer other than a dealer who deals 
exclusively in one or moro classes of goods specified 
in the Second Schedule, whose gross turnover during a 
year exceeds ten thousand rupees may, notwithstanding 
that he may not be liable to pay tax under section 4, 
apply in the prescribed manner to the prescribed autho- 
rity for registration under this Act. 

(2) The provisions of sub-section (3), (4), (5), (7) 
and (8) of section 11 shall apply in respect of applica- 
tions for registration under this section. 

(3) Every dealer who has been registered upon 
application made under this section shall, for so long 
as his registration remains in force, be liable to pay 
tax under this Act. 

(4) The registration of a dealer upon application 
made under this section shall be in force for a period 
of not less than three complete years and shall remain 
in force thereafter unless cancelled under the provisions 
of this Act. 

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-scction (_4), a 
dealer registered upon application made under this sec- 
tion may apply in the prescribed manner not less than 
six months before the end of a year to the authority 
which granted him a certificate of registration for the 
cancellation of such registration to take effect at the 
end of the year in which the application for such can- 
cellation is made; and the said authority shall, unless 
the dealer is liable to pay tax under section 4, cancel 
the registration accordingly. 

Provisional registration. 

13. (1) Any person who Intends to establish a busi- 
ness in Goa, Daman and Diu for the purpose of manu- 
facturing or producing goods of a value exceeding ten 
thousand rupees per year, may, notwithstanding that he 
is not required to register himself under section 11, 
apply in the prescribed manner to the prescribed autho- 
rity for provisional registration under this Act. 

(2) If the said authority, after making such inquiries 
as it mav consider necessary, is satisfied as to the bona 
fide intention of the person making the application, it 
may grant a provisional certificate of registration on 
such person furnishing such security as it may consi- 
der necessary and shall specify in such certificate the 
class or classes of goods for the purposes of clause (IT) 
of sub-section (3) of section 7. 

(3) Every person who has been granted a provisional 
certificate of registration under this section shall, for so 
lone as such certificate is in force be liable to pay tax 
under this Act. 

(4) A provisional certificate of registration granted 
under this section shall be in force for such period as 
may be specified therein and the provisions of sub- 
sections (4), (71 and (8) of section 11 shall, so far as 
may be, apply to any such certificate of registration. 

Special registration. 

14. (11 No dealer shall, while being liable to pay 
tax under section 5. carrv on husiness as a dealer unless 
he has applied for a special certificate of registration, 

(21 Every dealer required by sub-section (11 to 
be registered shall make an application in this behalf 
In the prescribed manner to the prescribed authority. 

(31 If the said authority is satisfied that the application 
for special certificate is in order, it shall, in accordance 
with such rules as may be prescribed, grant a special 
certificate to the applicant in the prescribed form : 

Provided that the special certificate shall not specify 
the class or classes of goods for the purposes of clause 
(HI of sub-section (31 of section 7. 

(41 The prescribed authority may from time to time 
amend any special certificate in accordance with the in- 
formation furnished under section 23 or otherwise re- 
ceived by him. 

(51 The provisions of sub-section (3) of section 4 
and sub-sections (61 and (71 of section 11 shall apply 
registration under this section. 

Payment of tax and returns. 

15. (11 Tax payable under this Act shall be paid in 

the manner hereinafter provided at such intervals as mav 
be prescribed. y 


(21 Such dealers as may be required so to do by the 
Commissioner by notice served in the prescribed manner 
and every registered dealer shall furnish such returns 
by such date and to such authority as may be prescribed. 

(3) Before any registered dealer furnishes the returns 
required by sub-section (2), he shall pay into a Govern- 
ment treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in such 
other manner as may be prescribed the full amount of 
tax due from him under this Act according to such re- 
turns, and shall furnish along with the returns a receipt 
from such Treasury or Bank showing the payment of 
such amount. 

(4) If any dealer discovers any omission or other 
error in any return furnished by him, he may at any 
time before the date prescribed for the furnishing of the 
next return by him furnish a revised return; and if the 
revised return shows a greater amount of tax to be due 
than was shown in the original return, it shall be accom- 
panied by a receipt showing payment in the manner pro- 
vided in sub-section (3) of the extra amount. 

(51 With a view to encourage prompt payment of tax, 
the Government may prescribe rates of remission or 
rebates in respect thereof in accordance with such princi- 
ples as may be prescribed. 

Collection of tax only by registered dealers. 

16. No person who is not a registered dealer shall collect 
in respect of any sale by him of goods in Goa, Daman 
and Diu any amount by way of tax under this Act and 
no registered dealer shall make any such collection except 
in accordance with this Act and the rules made there- 
under. 

Assessment of tax. 

17. (11 If no returns are furnished by a registered 
dealer In respect of any period bv the prescribed date, or 
if the Commissioner is not satisfied that the returns fur- 
nished are correct and complete, the Commissioner shall, 
within three years after the expiry of such period, proceed 
in such manner as may be prescribed to assess to the best 
of his judgment the amount of the tax due from the 
dealer and in making such assessment shall give the dealer 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard; and in the case 
of failure by a registered dealer to submit in respect of 
any period, a return accompanied by a receipt from a 
Government Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India as 
required under sub-section (31 of section 15, by the 
prescribed date, the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied 
that the default was made without reasonable cause, direct 
that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addition 
to the amount of the tax so assessed a sum not exceeding 
one and a half times that amount. 

(21 If upon information which has come into his pos- 
session, the Commissioner is satisfied that any dealer, 
has been liable to pay tax under this Act in respect 
of any period but has failed to get himself registered, the 
Commissioner shall proceed in such manner as may be 
prescribed to assess to the best of his judgment the amount 
of tax due from the dealer in respect of such period and 
all subsequent periods and in making such assessment 
shall give the dealer a reasonable opnortunitv of being 
heard; and the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that 
the default was made without reasonable cause, direct 
that the dealer shall pay by way of penalty in addition 
to the amount of tax so assessed a sum not exceeding 
one and a half times that amount- 

(3) No assessment under sub-section (1) shall be 
made after the expiry of four years and no assessment 
under sub-scction (21 shall be made after the expirv of 
six years from the end of the year in respect of which 
or part of which the assessment is made : 

Provided that where such assessment is made in con- 
sequent of or to give effect to any order of an appellate 
or rcvisional authority or of a court, the period of four 
years or six years, as the case may be, shall be reckoned 
from the date of such order. 

(4) The amount of tax — 

(a) due where the returns are furnished without 
receipt showing full payment thereof, or 

(A) assessed under sub-section (1), less the sum, 
if any, already paid by the dealer in respect 
of the said period, or 

(e) assessed under sub-section (2), 



122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III — Sf.c. 3 


( b ) to furnish any information, relating to the stock 
of goods of, purchases, sales or deliveries of 
goods by, the dealer or relating to any other 
matter, as may be deemed necessary for the 
purpose of this Act. 


shall, together with any penalty that may be directed to 
be paid under any of the provisions of this section, or 
section 31, be paid by the dealer into a Government 
Treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in such other 
manner as may be prescribed by such date as may be 
specified in a notice issued by the Commissioner for this 
purpose and the date to be so specified shall be not less 
than sixty days from the date of service of such notice ■ 

Provided that the Commissioner may, in respect of any 
particular dealer and for reasons to be recorded in 
writing, extend the date of such payment or allow such 
dealer to pay the tax due and the penalty, if any by 
instalments. 

(5) When a dealer is in default in making payment 
of the tax, the Commissioner or any person appointed to 
assist him under sub-section (1) of section 3, may in 
his discretion direct that, in addition to the amount of 
the arrears, a sum not exceeding six per cent thereon 
per annum by way of interest plus a penalty equal to the 
amount of such interest shall be recovered from the 
dealer. 

(6) Any amount of tax or penalty which remains 
unpaid after the date specified in the said notice, shall 
be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue under the 
law for the time being in force in that behalf, 

(7) Any assessment made under this section shall be 

without prejudice to any prosecution instituted for an 
offence under this Act. ► 

Assessment and reassessment of tax. 

18. If in consequence of definite information which has 
come into his possession the Commissioner is satisfied 
that the turnover of the business of a dealer has escaped 
assessment or has been under-assessed in any year, the 
Commissioner may, at any time within the period of five 
years following the close of the year for which the turn- 
over is proposed to be assessed or re-assessed, as the case 
may be, send a notice to the dealer and after hearing him 
and making such inquiry as he considers necessary, may 
proceed to assess or re-assess, as the case may be, the tax 
payable on the turnover which has escaped assessment or 
has been under-assessed, and all the provisions of this Act 
and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, 
apply accordingly for the purpose of the assessment or re- 
assessment of the tax, as the case may be. 

Refund. 

19. (1) The Commissioner shall, in the prescribed 
manner, refund to a dealer applying in this behalf any 
amount of tax or penalty paid by such dealer in excess 
of the amount due from him under this Act, either by 
cash payment or, at the option of the dealer, by deduc- 
tion of such excess from the amount of tax due in 
respect of any other period : 

Provided that no refund shall be made unless the 
claim for refund is made within twelve months from 
the date of the assessment of tax or the date of the 
imposition of penalty or within six months from the 
date of any final order passed on appeal, revision or 
review under section 28, whichever period expires later. 

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to 
empower the Commissioner to amend, vary or rescind 
any assessment or to amend rarv or rescind any order 
passed on appeal, revision or review under section 27 
or reference under section 28 or to confer on a dealer 
any relief in addition to what he is entitled under the 
provisions of this Act. 

Accounts 

20. Every registered dealer or other dealer on whom 
a notice has been served to furnish returns under sub- 
section (2) of section 15, shall keep a true account of 
the value of goods bought, and sold by him, and if the 
Commissioner considers that such account is not sufficient- 
ly clear and intelligible to enable him to make a proper 
check of the returns referred to in that sub-section, he 
may require such accounts (including records of sales) as 
may be prescribed. 

Power to call for information etc., to search and to seize 

documents etc. 

21. (1) The Commissioner may, subject to such condi- 
tions as may be prescribed, require any dealer — 

(a) to produce before him any accounts, registers 
or documents, and 


(2) All accounts, registers and documents relating to 
the stocks of goods of, or purchase, sales and deliveries 
of goods by, and all goods kept in any place of business 
of, any dealer, shall, at all reasonable times, be open to 
inspection by the Commissioner, 

(3) If the Commissioner has reason to suspect that any 
dealer is attempting to evade payment of any tax under 
this Act, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, 
seize such accounts, registers or documents of the dealer 
as may be necessary, and shall grant a receipt for the 
same and shall retain the same only for so long as may 
be necessary in connection with any proceeding under 
this Act or for a prosecution. 

(4) For the purposes of sub-section (2) or sub-section 
(3) the Commissioner may enter and search any place 
of business of any dealer, or any other place where tho 
Commissioner has reason to believe that the dealer keeps 
or is for the time being keeping any accounts, registers 
or documents of his business : 

Provided that no residential premises shall be entered 
into and searched by the Commissioner, except on the 
authoritv of a search warrant issued by a magistrate 
having jurisdiction over the area. 

Delegation of Commissioner’s powers. 

22. Subject to such restrictions and conditions as may 
be prescribed, the Commissioner may by order in writing 
delegate any of his powers under this Act except those 
under sub-section (2) of section 30 to any person ap- 
pointed under section 3 to assist him. 

Information regarding changes of business. 

23. If any dealer to whom the provisions of sub-section 
(2) of section 15 apply,-— 

(а) sells or otherwise disposes of his business or 
any part of his business or any place of business, 
or effects or comes to know of any other 
change in the ownership of the business, 

(б) discontinues his business or changes his place of 
business or opens a new place of business, or 

(c) changes the name or naturo of his business or 
effects any change in the class or classes of 
goods in which he carries on his business and 
which is or are specified in his certificate of 
registration. 

he shall within the prescribed time inform the prescribed 
authority accordingly, and if any such dealer dies, his 
legal representative, shall in like manner, inform the said 
authority. 

Special provision regarding liability in certain cases. 

24. (1) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this 
Act, dies then, 

(a) if the business carried on by tho dealer is conti- 
nued after his death by bis legal representative 
or any other person, such legal representative 
or other person, shall be liable to pay the tax 
due from such dealer under this Act, and 

( b ) if the business carried on by the dealer is dis- 
continued after his death his legal representative 
shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the 
deceased, to the extent to which the estate is 
capable of meeting the charge, the tax (in- 
cluding any penalty) due from such dealer 
under this Act, 

whether such tax (including any penalty) has been asses- 
sed before his death but has remained unpaid, or is asses- 
sed after his death. 

(2) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is a Hindu undivided family, and the joint family property 
is partitioned amongst the various members or groups 
of members, then each member or group of members 
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the tax (in- 
cluding any penalty) due from the dealer under this Act, 
upto the time of the partition, whether such tax (includ- 
ing any penalty) has been assessed before partition but 
has remained unpaid, or is assessed after partition. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER l3, 1965 (KARTlKA 22, 188?) 


123 


Fart lit— Sec. 3] 


(3) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is a firm, and the firm is dissolved, then every person 
who was a partner shall be jointly and severally liable 
to pay to the extent to which he is liable under section 
25, the tax (including any penalty) due from the firm 
under this Act, upto the time of dissolution, whether 
such tax (including any penalty) has been assessed be- 
fore such dissolution but has remained unpuid, or is 
assessed after dissolution. 

(4) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
transfers or otherwise disposes of his business in whole or 
in part or effects any change in the ownership thereof, 
in consequence of which be is succeeded in the business 
or' part thereof by any other person, the dealer and the 
person succeeding shall jointly and severally be liable to 
pay the tax (including any penalty) due from the dealer 
under this Act, upto the time of such transfer, disposal or 
change, whether such tax (including any penalty) has 
been assessed before such transfer, disposal or change 
but has remained unpaid, or is assessed thereafter. 

(5) Where the dealer, liable to pay tax under this 
Act- 

fa) is the guardian of a ward on whose behalf the 
business is carried on by the guardian, or 

( b) is a trustee who carries on the business under a 
trust for a beneficiary. 

then, if the guardianship or trust is terminated, the ward 
or, as the case may be, the beneficiary shall be liable to 
pay the tax (including any penalty) due from the dealer 
up to the time of termination of the guardianship or 
trust, whether such tax (including any penalty) has 
been assessed before the termination of the guardianship 
or trust, but has remained unpaid, or is assessed there- 
after. 

(6) Where a dealer, liable to pay tax under this Act, 
is succeeded in the business by any person in the manner 
described in clause (a) of sub-section (1) or in sub- 
section (4), then such person shall be liable to pay tax 
on the sales of goods made by him on and after the date 
of such succession, and shall (unless he already holds a 
certificate of registration) within 30 days thereof apply 
for registration : 

Provided that, where such person re-sells any goods 
purchased by the dealer while carrying on business before 
such succession, he shall be entitled to such deductions 
in respect thereof as are permissible under sub-section 

(3) of scclion 7, had the re-sale been effected by the 
dealer himself. 

Liability of firms. 

25. Notwithstanding any contract to the contrary, 
where any firms is liable to pay tax (including any 
penalty) under this Act, the firm and each of the partners 
of the firm shall be jointly and severally liable for such 
payment : 

Provided that, where any such partner retires from 
the firm, he shall be liable to pay the tax and the 
penalty (if any) remaining unpaid at the time of his 
retirement, and any tax (including any penalty) due 
upto the date of retirement though unassessed at that 
date. 

Bar to certain proceedings. 

26. Save as is provided in section 28, no assessment 
made and no order passed under this Act or the rules 
made thereunder by the Commissioner or any person 
appointed under sub-section (1) of section 3 to assist 
him shall be called in question in any Civil Court, and 
save as is provided in section 27, no appeal or appli- 
cation for revision or review shall lie against any such 
assessment or order. 

Appeal, revision and review. 

27. (1) Any dealer may in the prescribed manner 
appeal to the prescribed authority against any assess- 
ment within sixty days or such further period as may 
be allowed by the Commissioner for cause shown to his 
satisfaction, from the receipt of a notice issued under 
sub-section (4) of section 17 in respect thereof : 

Provided that no appeal shall be entertained by the 
said authority unless he is satisfied that such amount 
of the tax as the appellant may admit to be due from 
him has been paid. 


(2) Subject to such rules of procedure as may be 
prescribed, the appellate authority, in disposing ot any 
appeal under sub-section (1), may — 

( a ) confirm, reduce, enhance or annul the assess- 
ment, or; 

(b) set aside the assessment and direct the assess- 
ing authority to make a fresh assessment after 
such further inquiry as may be directed. 

(3) Subject to such rules as may be precribed and 
for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Commissioner 
upon application or of his own motion may revise any 
assessment made or order passed under this Act or the 
rules made thereunder by a person appointed under 
section 3 to assist him, and subject as aforesaid, the 
Government may, in like manner revise any order passed 
by the Commissioner. 

Provided that before rejecting any application for 
the revision of any such order the Commissioner or the 
Government, as the case may be, shall consider it and 
shall record reasons for such rejection : 

Provided further that no application for revision shall 
lie to the Commissioner in respect of any assessment 
if an appeal lies under sub-section (1) to the prescribed 
authority in respect of such assessment- 

(4) Subject to such rules as may be prescribed, any 
assessment made or order passed under this Act or the 
rules made thereunder by any person appointed under 
section 3 may be reviewed by the person passing it upon 
application or of his own motion. 

(5) Before any order is passed under this section 
which is likely to affect any person adversely, such per- 
son shall be given reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

Explanation : — In this section “assessment” includes 
Imposition of penalty. 

Statement of case to Court. 

28. (1) Within sixty days from the passing by the 
Government of any order under sub-section (3) of sec- 
tion 27 affection any liability of any dealer to pay tax 
under this Act, such dealer may, by application in 
writing, and accompanied by a fee of one hundred 
rupees, require the Government to refer to the Court 
any question of law arising out of such order. 

(2) If, for reasons to be recorded in writing, the Go- 
vernment refuses to make such reference, the applicant 
may, within thirty days of such refusal, either — 

(a) withdraw his application (and if be does so, 
the fee paid shall be refunded), or 

( b ) apply to the Court against such refusal. 

(3) If upon the receipt of an application under 
clause (/>) of sub-section (2), the Court is not satis- 
fied of the correctness of the Government’s decision, 
it may require the Government to state the case and 
refer it, and on the receipt of such requisition, the Gov- 
ernment shall state and refer the case accordingly. 

(4) If the Court is not satisfied that the statements 
in a case referred under this section are sufficient to 
enable it to determine the question raised thereby, it may 
refer the case back to the Government to make such 
additions thereto or alterations therein as the Court may 
direct in that behalf. 

(5) The Court upon hearing any such case shall decide 
the question of law raised therein, and shall deliver its 
judgment thereon containing the grounds on which such 
decision is founded, and shall send a copy of its judg- 
ment to the Government which shall pass such orders as 
are necessary to dispose of the case conformably to 
such judgment. 

(6) Where a reference is made to the Court under 
this section, the costs shall be in the discretion of the 
Court. 

(7) The payment of the amount, if any of tax due in 
accordance with the order of the Government in respect 
of which an application has been made under sub-section 
(1) shall not be stayed pending the disposal of such 
application or any reference made in consequence there- 
of, but if such amount is reduced as the result of such 
reference, the excess tax paid shall be refunded in ac- 
cordance with the provisions of section 19. 

(8) in this section, “Court” means the Court of the 
Judicial Commissioner, Goa, Daman and Diu. 



124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part IU— Sec. 3 


Powers of Commissioner etc. in certain matters. 

29. (1) The Co mm issioner or any person appointed 
to assist him under sub-section (1) of section 3 shall, 
for the purposes of this Act, have the same powers as 
are vested in a Civil Court under the law relating to 
Civil Procedure for tho time being in force in Goa, 
Daman and Diu, when trying a suit, in respect of the 
following matters, namely : 

(a) enforcing the attendance of any person and 
examining him on oath or affirmation; 

( b ) compelling the production of documents; and 

(c) issuing commissions for the examination of 
witnesses; and any proceeding under this Act 
before the Commissioner or any person ap- 
pointed to assist him under sub-scction (1) of 
section 3 shall be deemed to be a judicial pro- 
ceeding within the meaning of section 193 and 
228, and for the purposes of section 196, of 
the Indian Penal Code. 

(2) Subject to any rules made in this behalf, any 
authority referred to in sub-section (1) may impound 
and retain in its custody for such period as it thinks fit, 
any books of account or other documents produced 
before it, in any proceedings under this Act : 

Provided that a person appointed to assist the Com- 
missioner under sub-section (1) of section 3 shall not — 

(a) impound any books of account or other docu- 
ments without recording his reasons for so 
doing; or 

( b ) retain in his custody any such books or docu- 
ments for a period exceeding thirty days with- 
out obtaining the approval of the Commissioner 
therefor. 

Offences and penalties. 

30. (1) Whoever — 

(a) carries on business as a dealer in contravention 
of sub-section (1) of section 11; or 

( b ) fails, without sufficient cause, to submit any 
return as required by sub-section (2) of section 
15 or submits a false return; or 

(c) being a registered dealer, falsely represents 
when purchasing any class of goods, that goods 
of such class are covered by his certificate of 
registration; or 

{d) not being a registered dealer, falsely represents 
when purchasing goods that he is a registered 
dealer; or 

(e) contravenes the provisions of section 16; or 

( f ) fails, when required so to do under section 
20, to keep prescribed accounts or records of 
sales; or 

(g) refuses to comply with any requirement made 
of him under sub-scction (1) of section 21; 
or 

( h ) knowingly produces incorrect accounts, regis- 
ters or documents, or knowingly furnishes in- 
correct information; or 

(i) obstructs any officer making an inspection or 
a search or a seizure under section 21; or 

(/) neglects to furnish any information required 
by section 23; 

shall be punishable with simple imprisonment which may 
extend to six months or with fine or with both, and 
when the offence is a continuing one, with a daily fine 
not exceeding fifty rupees during the period of the con- 
tinuance of the offence : 

Provided that no prosecution for an offence against 
this Act shall be instituted in respect of the same facts 
in respect of which a penalty has been imposed under 
section 17 or section 31, 

(2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence 
under this Act or under the rules made thereunder ex- 
cept with the previous sanction of the Commissioner, 
and no Court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the 
first class shall try any such offence, 

(3) All offences punishable under this Act shall be 
cognizable and bailable. 


Penalty for concealment of sales etc. 

31. (1) If the Commissioner or any person appointed 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 to assist him in the 
course of any proceedings under this Act is satisfied 
that a dealer has concealed the particulars of his sales 
or has furnished inaccurate particulars of his sales and 
has thereby returned figures below the real amount he may 
after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being 
heard, direct that the dealer shall, m addition to the 
tax payable by him under this Act, pay, by way of 
penalty, a sum not exceeding one and a half times the 
amount of tax which would have been avoided if the 
figures returned by the dealer were accepted as correct. 

(2) If any person purchasing goods is guilty of an 
offence under clause (c) or clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 30, the authority which granted to him 
or as the case may be, is competent to grant to him 
a certificate of registration under this Act may, after 
giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by 
order in writing, impose upon him by way of penalty 
a sum not exceeding one and a half times the tax 
which would have been levied under this Act in respect 
of the sale to him of the goods, if the offence had not 
been committed. 

Compounding of offences. 

32. (1) Subject to such conditions as may be pres- 
cribed, the Commissioner may accept from any person 
alleged to have committed an offence under sub-section 
(1) of section 30 or under any rules made under this 
Act, cither before or after the commencement of any 
proceedings against such person in respect of such offence, 
by way of composition for such offence, 
a sum not exceeding five thousand rupees or where the 
offence alleged to have been committed is under clause 
(a) or clause (b) of that sub-section, not exceeding 
double the amount of the tax which would have been 
payable by such person had he complied with the pro- 
visions of the Act, whichever is greater. 

(2) On payment in full of such sum as may be 
determined by the Commissioner under sub-section 
( 1 ) — 

(a) no proceedings shall be commenced against such 
person as aforesaid; and 

(/>) if any proceedings have been already commenc- 
ed against such person as aforesaid, such pro- 
ceedings shall not be further proceeded with. 

Setting up of posts and barriers. 

33. (1) The Government may, by notification in the 
Official Gazette, set up check-posts or barriers at any 
place in Goa, Daman and Diu with a view to preventing 
evasion of sales tax and other dues payable under fills 
Act. 

(2) Every person transporting such goods as may be 
notified shall, at any check-post or barrier referred to 
in sub-section (1), file before such officer as may be 
authorised by the Government in this behalf a declara- 
tion in such form and in such manner as may be pres- 
cribed, 

(3) The officer authorised by the Government under 
sub-section (2) or any other officer who may be autho- 
rised in this behalf may for the purpose of satisfying 
himself that the provisions of sub-section (2) are not 
being contravened, and subject to such restrictions as 
may be prescribed, intercept and search any vehicle 
which may be suspected of contravening the said pro- 
visions. 

Indemnity. 

34. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding 
shall lie against any employee of tho Government for 
anything which is in good faith done or intended to 
be done under this Act or the rules made thereunder, 

Returns etc., to be confidential. 

35. (1) All particulars contained in any statement 
made, return furnished or accounts or documents pro- 
duced in accordance with this Act or in any record of 
evidence given in the course of any proceedings under 
this Act other than proceedings before a Criminal Court 
shall, save as provided in sub-section (3), be treated as 
confidential, and notwithstanding anything to the cont- 
rary contained in any other law relating to evidence, no 
Court shall, save as aforesaid, be entitled to require any 
employee of the Government to produce before it any 
such statement, return, account, document or record 
or any part thereof, or to give evidence before it in res- 
pect thereof. 



125 


Part III— Sue. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1963 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


(2) If save as provided in sub-section (3), any em- 
ployee of the Government discloses any of the particu- 
lars referred to in sub-section (1), be shall be punishable 
with imprisonment which may extend to six months, 
and shall also be liable to fine. 

(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to the dis- 
closure 

(a) of any of the particulars referred to in sub- 
section ( 1 ) for the purposes of a prosecution 
under the Indian Penal Code in respect of 
any such statement, return, accounts, docu- 
ments or evidence, or for the purposes of a 
prosecution under this Act; or 

(b) of such facts, to an officer of the Central 
Government or the Government of any State 
or Union Territory, as may be necessary for 
verification of such facts or for the purpose 
of enabling that Government to levy or realise 
any tax imposed by it. 

Power to make rules. 

36. (1) The Government may, subject to the condi- 
tion of previous publication, make rules for carrying 
out the purposes of this Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the gene- 
rality of the foregoing power, such rules may pres- 
cribe : — 

(a) the further period after the date of expiry of 
three consecutive years referred to in sub- 
section (3 ) of section 4; 

(b) the particulars to be contained in a declaration 
under clause (II) of sub-section (3) of section 
7, the form of such declaration, the authority 
from which such form shall be obtainable and 
the manner in which such delaration is to be 
furnished; 

(c) the other sales turnover in respect of which 
may be deducted from a dealer’s gross turn- 
over in computing his taxable turnover as 
defined in section 7; 

(d) the authority to which applications for registra- 
tion under sections 11, 12, 13 or 14 shall be 
made; 

(e) the procedure for, and other matters incidental 
to the registration of dealers and the granting 
of certificates of registration, and the form of 
such certificates under sections 1, 12, 13 or 14; 

(/) the intervals at which, and the manner in 
which, the tax under this Act shall be payable 
under section 15, 

(£) the returns to be furnished under sub-section 
(2) of section 15, and dates by which and 
the authority to which, such returns shall be 
furnished; 


(p) the conditions under which offences may be 
compounded under section 32; 

( q ) the manner in which, and the time within 
which, applications shall be made, information 
furnished and notices served, under this Act; 

(r) any other matter required to be prescribed. 

(3) any such rules may provide that a breach thereof 
shall be punishable with fine not exceeding five hundred 
rupees, and when the offence is a continuing one, with 
a daily fine not exceeding twenty-five rupees during the 
continuance of the offence. 

Savings. 

37. Nothing in this Act or the rules made thereunder 
shall be deemed to impose or authorise ihc imposition 
of a tax on any sale or purchase of any goods when 
such sale or purchase takes place — 

(i) in the course of inter-State trade or commerce; 

(ii) outside Goa, Daman and Diu; or 

(iii) in the course of import of the goods into, 
or export of goods out ol, the territory ot India. 

Explanation : Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Central Sales 
Tax Act, 1956, shall apply for determining whether or 
not a particular sale or purchase takes place in the 
manner indicated in clause (i), clause (nf or clause 

(iii). 

Power to remove difficulties. 

38. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the pro- 
visions of this Act, the Govt, may, by order, as occasion 
requires, do anything (not inconsistent with this Act.) 
which appears to it to be necessary for removing the 
difficulty. 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
[See clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 7] 

1. Motor vehicles, including chassis of motor 
vehicles, motor tyres and tubes and spare parts 
of motor vehicles. 

2. Motor cycles and cycle combinations, motor 
scooters, motorettes and tyres, tubes and spare 
parts of motor cycles, motor scooters, motorettes. 

3. Refrigerators and air-conditioning plants and 
components parts thereof, 

4. Wireless reception instruments and apparatus, 
radios and radio gramophones, transistors, elec- 
trical valves, accumulators, amplifiers and loud 
speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof. 

5. Cinematographic equipment including cameras, 
projectors and sound recording and reproducing 
equipment, recording tape, lenses, films and parts 
and accessories required for use therewith ex- 
cluding films certified by the Central Board of 
film Censors to be predominantly educational in 
nature. 


(A) the date by which returns for any period 
to be furnished and the procedure to be 1 
lowed for assessment under section 17; 

(/) the manner in which refunds under section 
shall be made; 

0) the accounts and forms thereof required 
section 20; H 

(k) the conditions under which the production 

° r dOC u ments -° r the furnishing 
information may be required under sub-secti 
(l) ot section 21; 

(/) the restrictions and conditions subject to wh 

StoSTST may Mcsm Us r™ 


(m) the authority to which information 
lurmshed under section 23; 


shall 


(, ° wh,Vh mimer “ which - aQd the authority 
which appeals against assessment may 
preferred under section 27; 

(0) £t? r0Cedure f or ’ and other matters (inclu, 
fees) incidental to, the disposal of anneals 

•cction l 27; S f0r rCvisioQ and Ieyi ew ui 


6. Photographic and other cameras and enlargers, 
lenses, films and plates, paper and cloth and 
other parts and accessories required for use 
therewith. 

7. All clocks, time-pieces and watches and parts 
thereof. 

8. Iron and Steel safes and almirahs. 

9. All arms including rifles, revolvers, pistols, and 
ammunition for the same. 

10. Cigarette cases and lighters. 

11. Tape recorders, dictaphone and other similar ap- 
paratus for recording sound and spare parts 
thereof. 

12. Sound transmitting equipment including tele- 
phones and loud speakers and spare parts there- 
of. 

13. Typewriters, tabulating machines, calculating 
machines and duplicating machines and parts 
thereof. 

14. Binoculars, telescopes and opera glasses. 

15. Gramophones and component parts thereof. 

16 . Gramophone records. 



126 


tHE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (tCARtlKA ii, 1887) [Tart ill— Sue. i 

37. Betel leaves, betel nuts, kat and edible lime. 

38. Durries of the size not exceeding 30 sq. feet in 
area. 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
(See section 10) 


Tax-free goods 


1. All cereals and pulses including all forms of rice 
(except when sold in sealed containers). 

2. Flour including atta, maida, suji and bran 
except when sold in sealed containers). 

3. Bread. 

4. Meat (except when sold in sealed containers). 

5. Fish (except when sold in sealed containers). 

6. Fresh eggs, 

7. Live stock including poultry. 

8. Vegetables, green or dried (excluding dehydrated 
vegetables) and vegetable seeds and plants 
other than medical preparations) (except when 
sold in sealed containers). 

9. Fresh fruits. 

10. Sugar, Gur, molasses and sugarcane. 

11. Salt. 

12. Fresh milk, whole or separated and milk pro- 
ducts. 

13. Karadi (safflower) oil and till( sesamam) oil. 

14. Edible oils pressed on Ghanis. 

15. Ghee and vegetable ghee. 

16. Dahi, -butter and Khoa. 

17. All varieties of cotton, real silk, woollen, rayon 
or artificial silk fabrics. 

18. Cotton yam including cotton thread. 

19. White printing paper, creamlaid paper, hand 
made paper and newsprint. 

20. School exercise and drawing books and other 
articles of stationery used by the students. 

21. All books and periodicals. 

22. Kerosene. 

23. Fuel wood and charcoal. 

24. Agricultural implements. 

25. Matches. 

26. Cattle feeds including fodder and poultry feed. 

27. Hides and skins, whether in a raw or dressed 
state, 

•28. Electrical energy. 

29. Fertilizers and manures including oil cakes. 

30. Water but not aerated water or mineral water, or 
water sold in bottles or sealed containers. 

31. Raw wool. 

32. Tobacco and all its products. 


33. (i) Country made shoes 
(Juries) 

(ii) Hand-made utensils 


(iii) Cane and bamboo 
handicrafts. 

(iv) Earthenware made 
by Kumbhars. 


When manufactured 

(i) without the use of 
power, and 

(ii) at a place other 
than a factory as 
defined in the 
Factories Act, 
1948 and sold eit- 
her by the maker 
himself or by any 
member ot his 
family or by a 
cooperative socie- 
ty consisting 
wholly of the 
makers of such 
articles. 


34. Achar and Murraba except when sold in sealed 
containers. 


35. Charkha, takli and charkha accessories. 

36. Slate, slate pencils, takhties, black ink used for 
takhties writing chalks, crayons, foot rules of the 
type used in schools, Kalams (Pens used for 
takhties). 


39. Bardana including hessian, cloth, iron strips and 
wooden and tin packing, the sale of which is 
incidental to dealings in any of the other goods 
mentioned in this Schedule, 

40. Cotton padding. 

41. Articles and utensils made of Kansa (bellmetal). 

42. Bullock carts, and spare parts thereof. 

43. Chillies, chilly powder; tamarind, turmeric and 
all other condiments, whole or powdered, except 
when sold in sealed containers, 

44. Coconut in shell; coconut oil and separated ker- 
nel of coconut other than copra. 

45. Cooked food and non-alcoholic drinks served at 
one time at a price of not more than three ru- 
pees per person, for consumption at or out- 
side any eating house, restaurant, hotel, refresh- 
ment room or boarding establishment which is 
not a shop or establishment conducted primarily 
for the sale of sweetmeats, confectionery, cakes, 
biscuits or pastries. 

46. Foodstuffs and food provisions of all kinds (in- 
cluding dried fruits and dried vegetables; raw 
semi-cooked, semi-processed or ready-to-serve 
foods; pickles, sauces, jams, marmalades, jellies; 
preserved fruits and honey) when sold in sealed 
containers of weight not exceeding five Kg. in 
each container. 

47. Farsan. 

48. Films certified by the Central Board of Film 
Censors to be predominantly educational in 
nature. 

49. Flowers (excluding artificial flowers). 

50. Flower, fruit and vegetable seeds; seeds of 
lucerne and other fodder grass; seeds of sann 
hemp; bulbs; croms; rhizomes; suckers and 
tubers; budgrafts, cuttings; layers and seedlings; 
plants. 

51. Plantain leaves, patrawalis and dronas. 

52. Handloom fabrics of all varieties (excluding pile 
carpets, braids, borders, laces and trimmings). 

53. “Khadi” and ready-made garments and other 
articles prepared from Khadi. 

Explanation — For the purpose of this entry 
"Khadi” means any cloth woven on handloom 
in India from cotton, silk or woollen yarn 
hand-spun in India or from the mixture of any 
two or all such yarns. 

54. Products of Village Industries as defined in the 
Khadi and Village Industries Commission Act, 
1956. 

55. (i) Handloom and parts thereof. 

(ii) The following handloom accessories, 

namely : — 

(a) Rach 

(b) Fani 

(c) Cotton healds 

(d) Shuttles 

(e) Bobbins 

(f) Pins 

(g) Pickers. 

(iii) The following handloom auxiliary machines 

namely : — 

(a) Warping frames worked by hand 

(b) Sectional drum type warping machine 
worked by hand and V-shaped creel 
used therewith. 

(iv) The following attachment to handlooms 

namely : Wooden dobbies. 

56. Kumkum (including liquid Kumkum). 

57. Mangalsutra with black glass beads sold at a 
price not exceeding ten rupees each. 

58. Bangles of price not exceeding rupee one per 
pair. 

59. Silkworm eggs and silkworm cocoons. 


Part III— Sec. 3] , THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 127 


60. Stamp-papers and stamps sold by vendors duly 
authorised under the provisions of the Indian 
Stamps Act, 1899, and the Court Fees Act, 
1870. 

61. Safety razor blades, 

62. Fishing equipment other than mechanised boats 
and vehicles. 


THE THIRD SCHEDULE 
[See clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 7] 

1. Coal including coke in all its forms. 

2. Cotton as defined in section 

3. Iron and steel 14 of the Central Sales 

4. Jute Tax Act, 1956, 

5. Oilseeds 

6. Artificial silk yarn, 

S. BALAKRISHNA 
Secretary to the Government 
of Goa, Daman and Diu. 


Finance Department 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU SALES TAX RULES, 

1964 

Panjlm, the 8 th October 1964 

No. F.I11/ 2-36/64. — In exercise of the powers con- 
ferred by section 36 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Act, 1964, the Government hereby makes the fol- 
lowing rules : 

1. Short title.— These rules may be called "The Goa, 

Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964” 

2. Definitions . — In these rules unless the context other- 
wise requires : 

(a) “the Act” means the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales 
Tax) Act, 1964; 

( b ) “agent” means a person authorised by a dealer 
In writing to appear on his behalf in any proceedings 
before any authority functioning Hinder the Act and 
who is : 

(i) a relative of the dealer, or 

(ii) a person regularly employed by the dealer, or 

(iii) a Legal Practitioner or Chartered Accountant, 
or 

(iv) a person holding a Power of Attorney from 
the dealer in this regard. 

(c) “Appropriate Assessing Authority” means : 

(i) in relation to any particular dealer, the Sales 
Tax Officer or the Assistant Sales Tax Officer 
within whose jurisdiction the dealer’s place of 
business is situated; 

(ii) in relation to a dealer who has more than one 
place of business in the Territory, the Sales 
Tax Officer or the Assistant Sales Tax Officer 
within whose jurisdiction the head office of such 
business is situated in the Territory; 

(Ui) in relation to an Ex-Territory dealer as defined 
in rule 3, the Sales Tax Officer specifically 
nominated by the Commissioner for the pur- 
pose. 

Provided that In relation to any dealer or class of 
dealers whose gross turnover exceeds such amount as 
the Commissioner may fix by order, the Appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall be the Sales Tax Officer who 
Is specified therein. 

( d ) “Appropriate Government Treasury” means any 
Taluka Treasury or sub-Treasury in the Territory, the 
Reserve Bank of India, or a branch of the State Bank 
of India or its subsidiary situated in the area in which 
the dealer concerned has his place of business or the 
head office, if the business is carried on at more than 
one place in the Territory; 

(e) “Appropriate Tax Recovery Officer" means the 
Tax Recovery Officer of the Revenue Office of Taluka 
in which the dealer’s place of business in the Territory 
is situated Or if he has more than one place of business 
in the Territory, the Taluka in which the head office of 
such business is situated or the Collector of the District 
of the residence of the Ex-Territory dealer; 


(/) "Assistant Commissioner” means the person ap- 
pointed by that designation by the Government under 
section 3 to assist the Commissioner; 

(g) “Assistant Sales Tax Officer” means the person 
appointed by that designation by the Government under 
section 3 to assist tire Commissioner; 

(h) “Forms” means a form specified in the second 
schedule; 

( i) “Inspection" means a Sales Tax Inspector appoint- 
ed under section 3 to assist the Commissioner for car- 
rying out the purposes of the Act; 

(/') “month” means a calendar month; 

( Ic ) "place of business” means any place where any 
dealer sells or manufactures for sale any goods or keeps 
his accounts of sale of goods; 

(Z) “Quarter” means each of the following periods 
of three month of each year : — 

1st April to 30th June. 

1st July to 30th September. 

1st October to 31st December. 

1st January to 31st March. 

(;n) “return period” means the period for which 
returns arc to be furnished by a dealer under these 
rules; 

(«) "Sales Tax Officer” means the person appointed 
by that designation by the Government under section 3 
of the Act to assist the Commissioner; 

(o) “Schedule” means the Schedule appended to 
these rules; 

(p) "section” means a section of the Act; 

(q) “Territory” means, the Union Territory of Goa, 
Daman and Diu; 

(r) “warehouse” means any enclosure, building of 
vessel in which a dealer keeps stock of goods for sale 
or resale. 

3. Ex-Territory dealer. — A dealer who resides outside 
the Territory and has no place of business in the Terri- 
tory but delivers goods in the Territory, for consumption 
therein, shall be considered an importer for the purpose 
of ascertaining the taxable quantum referred to in clause 
(a) of sub-section 5 of section 4 of the Act. 

4. Application for Registration. — (1) An application 
for registration of a dealer under section 11, 12, 13, or 
14 shall be made, within 30 days from the commence- 
ment of the liability under section 4 of the Act, to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority. It shall be in Form 
S.T. I, if made by a dealer having onlv one place of 
business in the Territory; in Form S.T. II, if made by a 
dealer having more than one place of business in the 
Territory; and in Form S.T. Ill, if made by an Ex- 
Territory dealer. A dealer liable to pay tax under sec- 
tion 6 shall also apply for registration under section 11. 

(2) A fee of five rupees shall be levied on every ap- 
plication for registration and every such application shall 
he accompanied by a receipt for the payment of the said 
fee in the appropriate Government Treasury. 

(3) An application for registration shall be made, 
signed and verified, in the case of a business carried 
on by : — 

(а) an individual, by the proprietor or by a person 
having due authority to act on behalf of such proprietor; 

(б) a firm, by a partner thereof; 

(c) a Hindu undivided family, by the Karta or an 
adult member thereof; 

(d) a body corporate (including a company, coopera- 
tive society, or a corporation or local authority), by a 
director, manager, secretary or the principal officer 
thereof, or by a person duly authorised to act on Its 
behalf; 

(e) an association of individuals to which clause (6), 
(e) or (d) does not apply, by the principal officer of, 
or person managing the business; 

(/) the Government, by a person duly authorised to 
act on its behalf. 

5. Grant of Certificate of Registration. — (1) When the 
appropriate Assessing Authority, after making such en- 
quiry as bc*may think necessary, is satisfied that the 



128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) [Part III— Sec. 3 


applicant has correctly given all the requisite informa- 
tion, chat lie has paid the registration fee and the appli- 
cation is otherwise in order, he shall register the dealer 
and shall issue a certificate of registration : 

(i) in Form S.T. IV if the dealer has only one 
place of business in the Territory; 

(ii) in Form S.T, V if he has more than one place 
of business in the Territory; 

(iii) in Form S. T. VI if the application is for 
special registration under section 14; and 

(iv) in Form S. T. VII if the dealer is an Ex- 
Territory dealer. 

(2) Where a certificate of registration is issued to a 
dealer : 

(a) it shall take effect or be valid from the date of 
the commencement of the liability, if it is made within 
the period specified in sub-rule (1) of rule 4 and in 
such case the dealer shall be liable to pay tax on sales 
made by him from the date of commencement of the 
liability and he will be entitled to collect such tax from 
that date; and 

( b ) it shall take effect or be valid from the date on 
which the application has been filed in the office, if 
such application is made after the expiry of the aforesaid 
period. 

(3) The appropriate Assessing Authority shall furnish 
the registered dealer, free of cost, an attested copy of 
the registration certificate for every additional place 
of business (not being merely a warehouse). 

(4) Every registered dealer shall display conspicuous- 
ly at each place of business (not being merely a ware- 
house) the certificate of registration or a copy thereof. 

(5) Any registered dealer may obtain from the appro- 
priate Assessing Authority, on payment of a fee of two 
rupees and production of a receipt therefor from a 
Government Treasury, a duplicate copy of any registra- 
tion certificate which has been issued to him and which 
may have been lost, destroyed or defaced. 

6. Information to be furnished regarding change of 
busnless, etc . — (1) The information required under sec- 
tion 23, shall be furnished bv the registered dealer to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority within 30 days of the 
occurrence of such event. 

(2) If the information referred to in section 23, relates 
to a branch of any business located outside the jurisdic- 
tion of any Assessing Authority, a copy of the informa- 
tion and of any orders passed thereon, shall be forward- 
ed to the appropriate Assessing Authority within whose 
jurisdiction the branch is situated. 

(3) . When any registered dealer dies, his legal repre- 
sentative shall give information of the death to the appro- 
priate Assessing Authority within thirty days from the 
death of the dealer. 

7, Amendment and replacement of the certificate of 
registration.- — (1) When any registered dealer makes 
any report under section 23. he shall enclose his registra- 
tion certificate and the copies thereof, to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority, who may, after making such en- 
quiry or obtaining such evidence as he may think neces- 
sary, amend or reissue the registration certificate. 

Provided that where a registered dealer — 

(a) effects change in the name of his business, or 

(b) is a firm, and there is a chage in the partnership 
or in the constitution of the firm without dissolution 
thereof, or 

(c) is a trustee of a trust, and there is change in the 
trustees thereof, or 

(d) is a guardian of a ward and there is a chance in 
the guardian, then the certificate of registration shall be 
amended and it shall not be necessary for the dealer, or 
the fl r m or the new trustees or new guardian, as the case 
mav be, to apnly for a fresh certificate of registration. 

(21 Tf the dealer has failed to furnish information, 
as required under section 23, the Assessing Authority on 
the basis of information which may come to his notice 
otherwise, and if he is satisfied, that there has been a 
chance in the ownership, nature or name of the business 
or. for anv other reason, the certificate or other record 
of the dealer maintained in his office reauires amend- 
ment. be mav. after giving the dealer, an onportunity of 
being heard, bv order, amend the certiflqpte or other 
record accordingly, For this purpose the dealer shall 


submit the certificate lying in his possession and copies 
thereof to the Assessing Authority within the time 
specified in the order. 

(3) Where any class or classes of goods have, in the 
opinion of the Assessing Authority, been wrongly speci- 
fied in the certificate for the purpose of items (a) and 
( b ) of clause II of sub-section 3 of section 7 or where 
there are reason to believe that any dealer has been mis- 
using the certificate, the Assessing Authority may, after 
giving the dealer an opportunity of being heard, by 
order, delete or modify any class or classes of goods speci- 
fied in the certificate and thereupon the dealer shall sub- 
mit within the time specified in the order the registration 
certificate and copies thereof for deletion or modification, 
as the case may be, 

(4) Any amendment made under any of the foregoing 
sub-rules shall be effective. 

(a) _ in case of change in the name of business, place 
of business, opening of a new place of business or change 
in the ownership of business, from the date of the 
contingency which necessitates the amendment, whether 
or not information in this behalf was furnished within 
the period prescribed under preceding rule; 

( b ) in the case of addition of a class or classes of 
goods in the certificate of registration, from the date the 
application for amendment is received in the office; and 

(c) in the case of deletion or modification of class 
or classes of goods, from the date of the order of dele- 
tion or modification, as the case may be. 

(5) If a dealer to whom a certificate in Form 
S.T. IV has been issued reports that one or more addi- 
tional places of business has or have been opened his 
certificate shall be cancelled and the Assessing Authority 
shall issue in its place a fresh certificate in Form S.T. V 
and a copy thereof shall be furnished to the dealer, in 
respect of each additional place, on payment of a fee 
of Rs. 2. 

(6) If the dealer to whom a certificate in Form S.T. V 
has been issued, reports that any one or more of the 
places of business has or have been closed, his certificate 
shall be cancelled if only one place of business remains 
thereafter, or amended, if there remains more than one 
such place of business: in the former case, a fresh certi- 
ficate in Form S.T. IV shall be issued on payment of a 
fee of Rs. 2/-. 

(7) All the amendments of the certificates of regis- 
tration shall be entered in the register maintained in the 
office of the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

8. Cancellation of registration certificate. — (11 When 
anv dealer who is registered under section 12, desires to 
apply for cancellation under sub-section (5) of that sec- 
tion, he shall send his application to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority, not less than six months before tho 
end of the year together with — 

(i) a statement of his gross turnover during the 
immediatelv preceding two vears, and 

(ii) a statement showing the value of goods im- 
ported or manufactured by him during tho 
immediatelv preceding two vears, and 

(iii) (a) a declaration whether or not he manufac- 
tures or produces any goods for sale, or 

(b) imports for sale any goods from outside 
the State. 

(2) If the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied 
that such dealer is not liable to pay tax under section 4, 
or that the tax due has been paid, he shall cancel the 
registration with effect from the last date of the year, 
and at ]pas t three months before the end of the year, he 
shall forward to the Commissioner the name and address 
of the dealer, together with a description of the goods 
covered by his certificate of registration. 

9. Cancellation of certificate consequent on cancella- 
tion of certificate under Central Sale Tax Act 1956. 

When the appropriate Assessing Apfhoritv is satisfied that 
the registration certificate granted under the Central 
Sales Tax Act. 1956. to a dealer has been cancelled, 
be shall cancel the certificate of registration granted 
under the Act to that dealer, provided that he had not 
otherwise become liable to pav tax under section 4. 
The cancellation shall take effect from the date on which 
the registration under the Central Sales Tax Act. 1956 
is cancelled and the liability of the dealer to- nay tax 
under section 6 shall ocase with effect from the said 
date. 



129 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887} 


10. Cancellation in other cases. — (1) (a) If the gross 
turnover of any dealer registered under section 11, has 
for three consecutive years failed to exceed the taxable 
quantum, such dealer shall continue to be liable to pay 
tax during such further period not exceeding two years 
as the appropriate Assessing Authority may specify. 

( b ) The dealer whose further period has been specified 
by the appropriate Assessing Authority under clause (a), 
snail surrender the registration certificate to the appropri- 
ate Assessing Authority at least six months before the 
expiry of such further period. 

(c) If the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied 
that a dealer whose further period has been specified 
under clause (n), is not liable to pay tax under section 
4, he shall forward the registration certificate to the 
Commissioner who shall order the cancellation of the 
registration with effect from the date of expiry of the 
further period specified under clause («), and the 
liability of the dealer to pay tax under sub-section (3) 
of section 4, shall cease with effect from the said date. 

(d) Where — 

(I) a registered dealer has discontinued or trans- 
ferred his business, or 

(ii) has ceased to be liable to pay tax under sec- 
tion 4, 

the appropriate Assessing Authority shall forward the 
registration certificate to the Commissioner who shall 
order the cancellation of his certificate of registration 
under sub-section 7 of section 11, and the said certi- 
ficate shall be deemed to be inoperative, with effect from 
the date of discontinuance or transfer of the business in 
a case covered by clause (i) above, and with effect from 
the date on which the dealer's liability to pay tax has 
Ceased in a case covered by clause (ii) above, notwith- 
standing the fact that the order of cancellation is passed 
or that the particulars of the dealer regarding cancellation 
are published in the Official Gazette, after the aforesaid 
date. 

(e) When the appropriate Assessing Authority is 
satisfied that for any reason other than that referred to 
in clauses (c) and (d) , the certificate of registration of 
any dealer requires cancellation, he shall forward to the 
Commissioner the registration certificate of the dealer 
and the cancellation shall come into effect from such date 
as may be specified in the order and the liability of 
the dealer to pay tax shall cease with effect from the 
said date. 

Provided that the Commissioner, notwithstanding the 
provisions of rule 8 and this sub-rule may. at any time 
for reasons to be recorded in writing and after giving 
the dealer an opportunity of being heard, cancel any 
certificate of registration under sub-section 8 of section 
11 . 

Provided further that every such order of cancellation 
shall, as soon as possible after it is made, be published 
in the Official Gazette. 

(2) ( a ) Every dealer whose registration Is cancelled 
otherwise than on the basis of his application shall sur- 
render the certificate of registration to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority within seven days of the date of 
communication to him of the order of cancellation. 

(b) If a dealer fails to surrender his registration certi- 
ficate ns nrovided in clause (a), the annronriate Assessing 
Authority may. by an order In writine and after giving 
the dealer an opportunity of being heard, impose upon 
the dealer a penalty not exceeding Rs, 25 for every dav 
of default. 

(3) The cancellation nf certificates of registration shall 
be entered In the renister maintained in the office of 
the annronriate Assessing Authority. 

- 1 1 . List of canr-elled certificates and its publication. — 

(1) The annronriate Assessing Authority shall, by -the 
last dav of July and the last day of January in each 
''ear. forward to the Commissioner a list in dunlicate and 
in alnhahetical order of all dealers whose registration 
is cancelled in the preceding half vear and every such list 
shall contain the names and addresses of such dealers, 
their registration numbers and the date of cancellation. 

(21 The particulars .regarding such cancellation shall 
be published bv the Commissioner in the Official Gazette 
■ thereafter in the following Form : 


12. List of registered dealers and its publication. — (1) 
The appropriate Assessing Authority shall maintain a 
record of registration granted to the dealers, and by the 
hist day of April and the last day of October in each 
year, forward to the Commissioner a list in duplicate 
and in alphabetical order, of all dealers of the area re- 
gistered in the preceding half year in the following 
Form : 



Goods covered by 
dealer’s certificate 
of registration 




3 


4 


5 


6 7 8 


9 


10 11 


(2) As soon as may be after the commencement of 
the Act, the Commissioner shall publish in the Official 
Gazette the list of registered dealers with the particulars 
furnished by the appropriate Assessing Authorities. 

(3) After the publication of the list under sub-rule 
(2), the Commissioner shall publish every year In the 
like manner a consolidated list of the dealers registered 
up-to-date, after eliminating those whose registration 
certificates were cancelled during the preceding year. 

13. Return periods of taxable turnover. — (1) Unless 
a different return period is fixed by or under these rules, 
every registered dealer shall furnish to the appropriate 
Assessing Authority quaterly returns in Form S.T, VIII, 
within one month from the expiry of each quarter. 

(2) Subject to the provision of sub-rule (3), the 
turn-period fixed for any dealer under sub-rule (1) 
shall remain in force for not less than 2 years and shall 
continue to remain in force until a new return period 
is fixed in accordance with these rules 

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-rule (1), 
the appropriate Assessing Authority may, from time to 
time, for reasons to be recorded in writing, fix monthly 
return for a dealer, instead of a quarterly return. 

(4) A registered dealer, for whom monthly return- 
period has been fixed under the preceding sub-rule shall 
furnish a return in Form S.T. VIII, for each month, by 
such date within the following months as may be fixed 
by the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

(5) All returns shall be signed by the registered dealer 
or his agent, and shall be sent to the appropriate Asses- 
sing Authority, together with the receipt for payment of 
the tax due in the appropriate Government Treasury. 

(6) An unregistered dealer on whom a notice has 
been served under sub-section (2) of section 15, shall 
furnish to the appropriate Assessing Authority, within 
30 davs from the date of the notice, returns in Form 

s.t. vm. 

14. Comnounding of mt.— (1) a dealer may be per- 
mitted under sub-section (2) of section 7. to compound 
the tax assessable on his taxable turnover — 

(a) if his business is on a small scale and its nature 
is such that proper maintenance of accounts is not prac- 
ticable; or 

( h ) on any other sufficient ground. 

(2) A dealer intending t6 compound for the tax as- 
sessable on his taxable turnover as provided under sec- 
tion 7(2), shall apply to the appropriate Assessing 
Authority in Form S.T. IX. at least 2 months before 
the commencement of the year for which the composi- 
tion is intended. 

(3) On receipt of the application, the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall forward the same to the Com- 
missioner with its opinion after making such enquiries 
as it may consider necessary in this behalf. 

(4) The Commissioner, unless authorised to act under 
section 7(2), shall forward bis opinion thereon to the 
Government. 




Names of the 




n 

Name and 

proprietor, 

Registration 

Date of can- 

rya 

% 

address of 

manager. 

certificate No. 

cellatlon of 

U 

a) 

the dealer 

partners or 
director 


registration 

n 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 


(51 The Government or the Commissioner, if so autho- 
rised in this behalf, may on a consideration of the case, 
permit the dealer to pav such lump sum in lieu of the 
tax assessable on his taxable turnover under the provi- 
sions of the Act, as may be considered appropriate and 
direct appropriate Assessing Authority to issue a certi- 
ficate in Form S.T. X, 



130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III— Sec. 3 


(6) The certificate, so Issued tinder sub-rule (5), 
shall be valid for the year to which it relates, on the 
expiry of which, it shall cease to have effect unless 
it is renewed, on application, by the dealer made at least 
2 months before its expiry. 

(7) The dealer shall be liable to pay such additional 
sum by way of composition, as may be fixed by the 
Government or the Commissioner, as the case may be, 
if he starts a new place of business or makes any change 
in the nature of business. 

(8) The dealer shall surrender his certificate within 
10 days from the date of expiry of its validity. 

15. Deductions from gross turnm’er. — (1) A dealer 
who wishes to deduct from his gross turnover any 
amount in respect of sales, on the ground that he is en- 
titled to make such deductions under the provisions of 
sub-items (i) or (iv) of item (a) or item ( b ) of 
clause II of sub-section (3) of section 7, shall furnish 
along with the return referred to in section 15, a com- 
plete list of such sales, and shall produce in support of 
them, the declarations furnished in writing by the pur- 
chasing registered dealer or by a person duly authorised 
by him in writing in this behalf, in Form S.T. XI, to- 
gether with the copies of the relevant cash memos or 
bills according as the sale is a cash sale or a sale on 
credit. 

(2) A registered dealer who wishes to deduct from 
his gross turnover any amount in respect of sales, on 
the ground that he is entitled to make such deductions 
under the provisions of sub-items (ii) or (iil) of item 
(a) of clause II of sub-section (3) of section 7, shall 
furnish along with the return referred to in section 15, 
a complete list of such sales and shall produce in support 
of them, the declarations furnished in writing by the 
purchasing registered dealer or by a person duly autho- 
rised by him in writing in this behalf, in Form S.T. XIT, 
together with the copies of the relevant cash memos or 
bills, according as the sale, is a cash sale or sale on 
credit. 

(3) On application of the dealer, the appropriate 
Assessing Authority may extend for good and sufficient 
reason, the time limit referred to in proviso to sub- 
section (3) of section 7, for further period not exceed- 
ing nine months. 

(4) A dealer who wishes to deduct from his gross 
turnover the amount in respect of goods despatched to 
an address out of the Territory under the provisions of 
sub-items (ii) and (Hi) of clause II and clause V of 
sub-section (3) of section 7, shall prove to the satis- 
faction of the appropriate Assessing Authority that the 
goods were actually exported out of the Territory and 
furnish him the following particulars. : — 

(i) the name of the railway, port, steamer or ferry 
station, or road transport company's office 
from which goods are dispatched and the place 
of delivery : — 

(ii) the number and the date of the receipt issued 
by the railway, ferry or road transport com- 
pany, or documents issued by Customs or Port 
Authorities; 

(Hi) the names of the consignor and consignee; 

(Iv) the description and quantity or weight of the 
goods consigned with their value; and 

(v) such other particulars as the appropriate As- 
sessing Authority may require. 

(5) The Forms XI and XTI to be produced before 
the apDropriate Assessing Authority-Tor the purpose of 
deductions referred to in sub-rules (1) and (2) shall 
be obtained by the purchasing dealer to the extent re- 
quired by him. on application, from the appropriate 
Assessing Authority on payment of Ri. 2 per 50 forms 
which shall be paid in the form of court-fee stamps. 
The above Forms shall be kept by the purchasing dealer 
in his safe custody. 

Before furnishing the declaration to the selling dealer 
the purchasing dealer or any responsible person autho- 
rised bv him in this behalf, shall fill In all required 
particulars in the Form, and shall also affix his usual 
signature in the space provided in the Form for the 
purpose. Thereafter, the counterfoil of the Form shall 
be retained bv the purchasing dealer and the other two 
portions marked ‘original’ and 'duplicate' shall be made 
over by him to the selling dealer, 

(6) Tn calculating the taxable turnover, a regis- 
tered dealer,, besides other deductions referred to in the 
Act and these rules may also deduct from his gross 


turnover the amount in respect of sales of Canteen 
stores which are shown to the satisfaction of the Asses- 
ing Authority to have been made to the members of 
the Armed Forces of the Indian Union stationed in the 
Territory, when such sales are made by regimental or 
unit-run canteens, and provided that the stores are ob- 
tained from the Canteen Stores Department (India) and 
their sale price does not exceed the sale price fixed by 
the Quarter-Master. 

16. Certificate in case the sales are not liable to 
tax. — If any registered dealer shows to the satisfaction 
of the appropriate Assessing Authority that no sales 
made by him are liable to tax under the Act and makes 
an application in this behalf, the authority may direct 
that it shall not be necessary for such dealer to furnish 
any return in Form S.T. VIIT and may grant the dealer 
a certificate in Form S.T. XIII. 

17. Validity of the certificate. — (1) A certificate 
granted to any dealer under rule 16, shall be valid till 
the end of the year of issue and thereafter may be 
renewed annually for one year at a time, upon receipt 
of an application from the dealer accompanied by an 
affidavit that the business of the dealer continues to be 
such that no sales effected by him are liable to tax 
under the Act. 

(2) An application for renewal under sub-rule (1), 
shall be made at least 15 days before the date on which 
the certificate is to expire, and applications which are 
received after such date will be liable to be rejected. 

(3) Applications for the issue or renewal of certi- 
ficate in Form S.T. XIII shall be made to the appro- 
piate Assessing Authority. 

18. Assessment of tax. — (1) The amount of tax due 
from a registered dealer shall be assessed separately for 
each year during which he is liable to pay tax : 

Provided that the appropriate Assessing Authority, 
when he thinks necessary to make an assessment under 
section 17, in respect of a dealer, he may assess the 
tax due even for a part of a year and shall serve a 
notice in Form S.T. XIV upon him : — 

(а) calling upon him to produce his books of ac- 
counts and other documents, which he wishes 
to examine, together with any objection which 
the jtealer may wish to prefer and any evi- 
dence which he may wish to produce in sup- 
port thereof; and 

(б) stating the period or the return-period or 
periods in respect of which assessment is pro- 
posed and he shall fix a date, giving reasonable 
time, for producing such accounts and docu- 
ments and for considering any objection which 
the dealer may prefer. 

(2) A dealer who has been served with a notice as 
aforesaid, may prefer an obiection in writing personally 
or through an agent. No fee shall be payable in res- 
pect of any such objection. 

(3) After considering any objection made bv the 
dealer and any evidence produced in sunport thereof, 
the appropriate Assessing Authority, shall, after giving 
the dealer an opportunity of being heard, assess the 
amount of tax (if any) and impose a penaltv (if any), 
if he is satisfied that the default in submitting the re- 
turns was made without reasonable cause, to be paid 
by the dealer. 

(4) Where the dealer falls to comply with the terms 
of the notice issued, the appropriate Assessing Authoritv 
shall assess to the best of his judgement the amount of 
tax due from him, 

(5) Every order of assessment shall be recorded in 
writing and. where the Assessing Authority determines 
the turnover of a dealer at a figure different from that 
shown in the return submitted under the provisions of 
these rules, the order shall state brieflv the reason there- 
for. but a failure to state reasons shall not affect the 
validity of the assessment order. A copy of such order 
shall be supplied to the dealer free of cost. 

(6) Tf the appropriate Assessing Authority is satisfied 
that the returns furnished in respect of any period are 
correct and complete, he may assess the amount of 
tax due from the dealer on the basis of such returns. 

19. Joint and several responsibility for payment of 
tax . — fl) Where a dealer Is a firm or other association 
of nersons, the partners or members thereof shall be 
jointly and severally responsible for pavment of the tax, 
penalty or any amount due under the Act or these ruJos. 




Part in— Sec. 5 ] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA, N6VEMBER 15, 1965 (KARTIKA 44 , 1884) 151 


(2) In case of dissolution ol a firm, every partner 
thereof, and in case of discontinuance of an association 
or of partition of undivided families, every member 
thereof, shall be jointly and severally responsible for 
payment of tax due under the Act or these rules in 
respect of the business of the firm or the association, as 
the case may be, conducted before its dissolution or 
discontinuance. 

20. When the tax should be paid. — The tax due for 
any quarter or month shall be paid before furnishing 
the return and the receipt thereof shall accompany the 
return to be sent to the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

21. Where and how the payment should be made .- — • 

(1) Any amount payable by a dealer in respect of tax, 
penalty, composition money, registration fee or any 
other dues, shall be paid in the appropriate Government 
Treasury. No cash payment of any such amount shall 
be accepted at any Sales Tax Officer. 

(2) Every such payment shall be accompanied by a 
challan in Form S.T. XV. Challan forms shall be ob- 
tainable free of charge at the Sales Tax Offices. 

(3) Challan shall be filled up in quadruplicate, One 
copy of the challan shall be retained by the Treasury, 
one copy shall be sent by the Treasury Officer to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority and the other two 
copies shall be returned to the dealer, duly signed in 
proof of payment. 

22. Issue of cash memo or bill in respect of taxable 
goods sold by the dealer. — Every registered dealer shall, 
in respect of taxable goods sold by him, issue a cash 
memo or bill and keep the duplicate of such bill or cash 
memo which shall be serially numbered, duly signed 
and dated and shall show separately the price of the 
goods sold and the amount realised by way of tax. 

23. Prohibition against collection of tax in certain 
cases.- — (1) No registered dealer shall realise any amount 
by way of sales tax, in respect of sales of any goods 
which are declared under section 10, as exempt from 
the levy of sales tax. 

(2) No registered dealer shall realise any amount by 
way of tax in respect of any sale at a rate higher than 
the rate at which he is liable to pay tax under the Act 
in respect of that sale. 

24. Statement of tax collected. — The appropriate As- 
sessing Authority shall send to the Commissioner on or 
before the 13th of each month, a statement of the 
amounts credited in the treasury towards tax due under 
the Act during the preceding month. Hie Treasury 
Officer may be required by the appropriate Assessing 
Authority, where necessary, to verify the statements 
before they are forwarded to the Commissioner. 

25. Payment of tax after notice has been served. — 
(1) If any sum is payable by the dealer under sub- 
rule (3) of rule 18, the appropriate Assessing Authority 
shall round off the same, calculated in terms of the 
basic rates, to the nearest multiple of 5 Paise and serve 
a notice in Form S.T, XVI upon him, specifying the 
date, not less than sixty days after the service of the 
notice on or before which payment of any amount due 

S TT> be 1 made ’ and he sha11 a]so fix a date, on or before 
which the dealer shall furnish the receipted challan in 
proof of such payment. 

(2) When the challan is produced, the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall make the necessary entry in 
the personal file of the dealer. 

26. Recovery of ha.— (1) If, on the date fixed under 
rule 25, the defaulting dealer has not paid the sum 
assessed or such instalment thereof as may be due the 
appropriate Assessing Authority shall send a certificate 
T|„ the amount due to the appropriate Tax Recovery 
Officer for recovery, as an arrear of land revenue, of 
the amount of tax or penalty or both remaining unpaid 
giving the followmg particulars : 

(a) Name and full address of the defaulter, 

(b) Amount recoverable, 

(c) Period to which the amount relates, 

(d) Nature of the amount due, and 

(e) Head of account to which the amount should 
be credited, 

(2) Certificates shall be issued in respect of each 
defaulter. 


MV ■ —ill. I u i«— iii' 1 1 !XI--,tt=l: i tun- ■■ -r r-r --n; j'- t r : 

(3) After taking the necessary action the appropriate 
Tax Recovery Officer shall report to the appropriate 
Authority what amount, if any, has been recovered and 
the date on which recovery has been made. In respect 
of Ex-Territory dealers, the appropriate Tax Recovery 
Officer shall remit to the appropriate Assessing Autho- 
rity the amount recovered. 

(4) The Assessing Authority shall place the appro- 
priate Tax Recovery Officer’s report on the personal file 
of the assessee. 

27. Rounding off of any sum payable under the Act 
or the rules. — Any sum payable under the Act or these 
rules shall be rounded off to the nearest multiple of 
5 Paise. 

28. Refund. — (1) An application from a dealer for 
refund of excess tax paid shall be made to the appro- 
priate Assessing Authority and shall briefly specify the 
grounds on which the refund is claimed. 

(2) When the appropriate Assessing Authority is satis- 
fied that a refund is duo, he may, where the amount 
of refund does not exceed rupees two hundred, by 
order, sanction the refund and communicate the order 
to the applicant. 

(3) The appropriate Assessing Authority shall, if the 
amount to be refunded exceeds two hundred rupees, 
submit the application together with his opinion thereon, 
to the Assistant Sales Tax Commissioner, who may, 
thereupon pass an order for refund and communicate 
the order to the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

(4) When an order for refund has been passed under 
sub-rules (2) or (3), the appropriate Assessing Autho- 
rity shall, if the dealer desires payment in cash, issue a 
refund voucher in Form S.T. XVII and shall make it 
over to the dealer for encashment at the appropriate 
Government Treasury. 

(5) If the dealer desires payment by adjustment 
against any amount subsequently payable by him, the 
appropriate Assessing Authority shall issue a Refund 
Adjustment Order in Form S.T. XVIII authorising the 
dealer to deduct the sum to be refunded from the amount 
payable in respect of the next return-periods following 
the sanctioning of the refund. 

(6) In support of a claim for deduction according to 
sub-rule (5), a dealer shall attach the Refund Adjust- 
ment Order to the next return in Form S.T. VIII to be 
furnished by him. 

(7) After allowing such deduction, the appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall cause the Refund Adjustment 
Order to be cancelled. 

29. Production of accounts, registers, etc. — In re- 
quiring the production by any dealer of his accounts, 
registers, documents, or stocks of goods, strict regard 
shall be had to the necessity of not disturbing the busi- 
ness of the dealer or the work of his staff, any more 
than is necessary for the purpose of ascertaining the 
required information. 

30. Inspection of Accounts, registers, etc. — When the 
appropriate Assessing Authority deems it necessary to 
make a visit to any premises, he shall give reasonable 
notice in writing to the dealer of his intention to inspect 
the accounts, registers, documents or stocks of goods of 
such dealer and in fixing the date, time and place for 
the purpose, he shall as far as possible, have due re- 
gard to the convenience of the dealer; ordinarily he 
shall not make such inspection at the place of business 
of the dealer and he shall require the dealer to produce 
his accounts, registers or documents at his office, unless 
the dealer prefers the inspection at his place of busi- 
ness. 

Provided that the appropriate Assessing Authority, 
may, where the circumstances so require, proceed to 
inspect or direct by order in writing an Inspector to 
inspect the books of accounts, registers, etc., at the place 
of business of any dealer. 

31. Search and seizure of accounts, registers, etc . — 

(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) of sec- 
tion 21, the Commissioner may, for reasons to be re- 
corded, issue a written order under his signature and 
bearing his seal, authorising any Sales Tax 

Officer or Assistant Sales Tax Officer, to enter 
any building, or place to be specified therein where 
he had reason to believe that books of accounts or other 
documents which, in his opinion, will be relevant to or 




132 TliE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBEk l3, 1965 (KARTlkA 1887) IPart IH-Sec. 3 


useful for any proceedings under the Act, may be found. 
Such orders may authorise the Sales Ian Officer or 
Assistant Sales lax Officer to do all or any of the fol- 
lowing acts, namely : — 

(a) to enter the said building, or place with such 
assistance ot Police Officers as may he re- 
quired, to search the same and to place identi- 
hcation marks on such books of account or 
other documents found therein as, in his opi- 
nion, will be relevant to or useful for any 
proceeding under lire Act and to Jmake la 
list of such books or documents with particu- 
lars of the identification marks thereon; 

(b) to examine such books or documents and to 
make copies of or extracts from such books 
or documents; 

t c) to take possession of or seize any such books 
or documents under sub-section (3 ) ot section 
21; and 

(d) to make a note or an inventory of any other 
article or thing found in ffie course oi such 
search which, in his opinion, will be useful 
for or relevant to any proceedings under the 
Act. 

(2) Whenever any building or place authorised to be 
searened is closed, any person residing in or oeing m- 
charge of such building or place shall, on demand by 
ffie hales Tax Officer or Assistant hales lax Officer 
and on production of ffie authority, allow him free in- 
gress thereto and attord all reasonable facilities lor a 
search therein. 

(3) If ingress into such building or place cannot be 
go obtained it shall be lawful for the Sales Tax Officer 
or Assistant Sales Tax Officer executing the authority, 
with such assistance of a Police Officer as will be re- 
quired, to enter such building or place and search there- 
in and in order to effect an entrance into such building 
or place, to break open any outer or inner door 
or window of any building or place, whether that of ffie 
person to be searched or of any other person if after 
notification of his authority and purpose and demand 
of admittance duly made, he cannot otherwise obtain 
admittance : 

Provided that, if any such building or place is an 
apartment in actual occupancy of a woman, who ac- 
cording to custom does not appear in pubUc, the Sales 
Tax Officer or Assistant Sales Tax Officer shall before 
entering such apartment give notice of such woman that 
she is at liberty to withdraw and shall afford her every 
reasonable l'aciiity for withdrawing and may then break 
open the apartment and enter it. 


33. How the memorandum of appeal should be pre- 
sented. — The memorandum of appeal shall be presehted, 
in duplicate, in Form S.T. XIX, to the appellate autho- 
rity by the appellant or his agent, or it may be sent 
to the Appellate Authority by registered post, and shall * 
be signed either by ffie dealer or by a person duly autho- 
rised in writing m this behalf. 

34. What should accompany the memorandum of 
appeal. — The memorandum ot appeal shall be accomp- 
anied by a certified copy of the order appealed against 
and the fee prescribed in rule 46 and shall be endorsed by 
the appellant or lus agent as follows : — 

(a) that the amount of tax assessed and the penalty 
(if any) imposed or the tax and penalty admuted to 
be due, has been paid; and 

(b) that to the best of his knowledge and belief, the ■ 
facts set out in the memorandum are true. 

35. When appeal may be summarily rejected. — The 
appeal may be summarily rejected if the appelant, after 
being given an opportunity in this behalf, fails to com- 
ply with any of ffie requirements of rules 33 and 34. 

36. Fixing the date for hearing of appeal. — If the 
Appellate Authority does not rejected the appeal sum- 
marily, he shall fix a date for bearing and notify the 
same to the parties. 

37. Hearing and recording of evidence. — If the Ap- 
pellate or Revising Authority so desires, it may depute 
an Officer or Inspector to hear and record the evidence 
produced by or on behalf of the dealer or to make such 
enquiries as it may direct. The Officer or Inspector so 
deputed will have the authority to conduct such enquiries 
on the spot as he may consider necessary for the case. 

38. Application for revision or review. — (1) The pro- 
visions of rules 33 and 34 shall apply mutatis mutandis 
to every application for revision; provided that the pro- 
visions of clause (a) of rule 34 shall not apply to an 
application for revision of any order other than an order 
ot assessment, made under section 17 and appellate 
order made under section 27 of ffie Act. 

(2) No application for review of an order shall be 
entertained, unless it is presented within 30 days from 
the date of such order and no application for revision of 
an order shall be entertained unless it is presented 
within 60 days from the date of such order : 

Provided that an application for review or revision 
may, after the period so specified be entertained if the 
applicant satisfies the authority to which such 
application is made that he had sufficient cause for not 
presenting the application within such period. 


(4) Before making a search, the Sales Tax Officer 
or Assistant Sales Tax Officer, about to make it, shall 
call upon two or more respectable inhabitants of the 
locality in which the building or place to be searched 
Is situated, to attend and witness the search and may 
issue an order in writing to them or any of them to 
do so. 

(5) The search shall be made in the presence of the 
witnesses aforesaid and a list of all things seized in the 
course of such search and of the places in which they 
were respectively found shall be prepared by the Sales 
Tax Officer and signed by such witnesses. 

(6) The occupant of the building or place searched 
or some person on his behalf shall be permitted to at- 
tend during the search and a copy of the list prepared 
under the preceding sub-rule, shall be delivered to such 
occupant or person. A copy shall also be forwarded to 
the Commissioner. 

(7) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 
1898 (V of 1898) regarding the searches shall apply, 
so far as may be, to searches under section 21 or this 

rule. 

(8) If the Sales Tax Officer or Assistant Sales 
Tax Officer seizes any books of accounts, registers or 
documents under section 21, he shall not retain them 
beyond fifteen days without written sanction of the 
Assistant Commissioner. 

No such hooks shall he retained for more thun 30 days 
without the sanction of the Commissioner. 


Explanation : In computing the period of limitation 
prescribed in this rule for revision of an order, the time 
requisite for obtaining a copy of the order sought to be 
revised shall be excluded. 

39. Notice for hearing the application for revision or 
review.— ( 1 ) Notice of the date fixed for hearing an 
application for revision or review shall be given to the 
petitioner and the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

(2) Where the Government or any person appointed 
under section 3, proposes to revise or review any order 
of his own motion, he shall give the dealer as well as 
the appropriate Assessing Authority an opportunity of 
being heard. 

40. Order of higher authorities shall be binding on 
subordinate authorities. — -(1) The orders passed by the 
Appellate, Revising or Reviewing Authority shall super- 
sede the orders of any subordinate authority and shall 
bo binding on it. 

(2) A copy of any order passed upon any appeal or 
application for revision shall be sent to the officer whose 
order forms the subject matter of the appeal or revision 
proceedings, 

41. Review of orders— (1) When the Commissioner 
or any other officer reviews any order under sub-section 
(4) of section 27, he shall record his reasons in writing. 

(2) When any appropriate Assessing Authority reviews 
any order he shall send a copy of the order and of the 
statement of reasons to the Assistant Commjsaoner. 


32. To whom appeal should be made . — An appeal 
against an order of assessment passed by an appropriate 
Assessing Authority shall lie to the Assistant Commis- 
sioner (hereafter referred to as Appellate Authority). 


42, Reassessment of tax, — If, in consequence of defi- 
nite information, which has come into its possession, the 
appropriate Assessing Authority discovers that the turn- 
over of the business of a dealer has been under-assessed 



Part III— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


133 


or has escaped assessment in any year, he may, at any 
time within a period of 5 years following the close of the 
year, for which the turnover is proposed to be re-assessed, 
send a notice in Form S.T. XX to the dealer, after giving 
him an opportunity Of being heard and making such 
inquiry as it considers necessary, may proceed to ie- 
assess the tax payable on the turnover, which has been 
under-assessed or has escaped assessment. 

43. Rectification of clerical or arithmetical mistakes.— 

(1) An Assessing, Appellate or Revising Authority may, 
at any time within one year from the date of any order 
passed by it, rectify any clerical or arithmetical mistake 
apparent in the record or otherwise brought to his 
notice : 

Provided that no rectification, which has the effect 
of enhancing the assessment, shall be made unless the 
authority concerned has given notico to the dealer con- 
cerned of its intention to do so and has allowed him 
a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 

(2) Where such rectification has the effect of reducing 
the assessment, the authority concerned shall order re- 
fund of the amount which may be due to the dealer. 

(3) Where such rectification has the effect of en- 
hancing the assessment, the appropriate Assessing Autho- 
rity shall serve on the dealer a revised notice in Form 
S.T. XXI and thereupon the provisions of the Act and 
these rules shall apply as if such notice had been served 
in the first instance. 

44. Summons for appearance. — (1) An appropriate 
Assessing Authority may issue a summons in Form S.T. 
XXIT, for the appearance of any person or for the pro- 
duction of document or documents by him. 

(2) The powers conferred on an Assessing Authority 
by sub-rule (1) may also be exercised by an Appellate 
or Revising Authority. 

45. How the notice, summons or order may be 
Issued. —Service of any notice, summons or order under 
the Act or these rules may be effected in any of the 
following ways, namely 

(<r) by sending it to the person concerned by regis- 
tered post, or 

(6) by giving or tendering it to the person concerned 
or lus manager or agent, if any, or 

(c) if the person concerned or his manager or agent, 
if any, cannot be found, by leaving it at the last known 
place of business or residence of the person concerned 
or by giving or tendering it to some adult male member 
of his famdy, or 

(d) if none of the methods aforesaid is practicable, 
by affixing it in some conspicuous place at the last known 
place of business of the person concerned. 

46. Payment of fees.— The following fees shall be 
payable in court-fee stamps — 

(i) On a memorandum of appeal 
against an order of assessment 
with or without penalty, or of 


penalty or of forfeiture Rs. 10.00 

(ii) On an application for revision 

to the Commissioner Rs. 15.00 

(iii) On any application for revision 

to the Government Rs. 25.00 


(iv) On any other application or 

petition for relief to any autho- 
rity under the Act or the rules Rs, 2.00 

(v) On application for grant of 
copies vide sub-rule (4) of rule 

47 

47. Personal file and its inspection by the dealer.— 
(1) In the case of every dealer, who is required to do 
any act under the provisions of the Act or these rules, 
the appropriate Assessing Authority shall maintain a 
file, namely the personal flic. 

(2) The dealer concerned or his agent, on making to 
the appropriate Assessing Authority a written application 
stamped with a court-fee of the value of Re. 1 may 
inspect the record of his personal file or any entries 
relating to himself in any register maintained under the 
Rules. 

M328GI/6S 


(3) The court-fee paid on the application shall cover 
the first hour of inspection only. For each subsequent 
hour or part of an hour, an additional court-fee stamp 
of fifty Paise must be supplied by way of payment be- 
forehand. No fresh application shall be demanded for 
the continuation of an incomplete inspection on the next 
working day. 

(4) A person entitled under sub-rule (2) to the ins- 
pection of any document, shall be granted a copy of 
the same on Iris making an application in this behalf 
bearing a court-fee stamp of the value of Re. 0.50 P 
for every 100 words or part thereof; an extra fee of 
one rupee if copies are required urgently. 

(5) A copy to be granted under sub-rule (4) shall 
be prepared in the ofhee of the appropriate Assessing 
Authority. 

(6) The provisions of sub-rules (2) to (5) shall apply 
mulatis mutandis to inspection of records of the offices 
of the Appellate and Revising Authorities and grant of 
copies thereof. 

48. Delegation of Powers and Duties. — The Commis- 
sioner may delegate the powers specified in columns 2 
and 3 of the First Schedule, to the officers specified in 
the corresponding entries in column 4 of the said 
Schedule. 

49. Execution of the bond.- — When any security is 
demanded under sub-section (5) of section 11, the bond 
to be executed therefor may be signed on behalf of the 
Government either by the Commissioner or by the per- 
son specifi cally authorised by him in this behalf, 

50. Powers conferred upon any authority may be ex- 
ercised by an authority superior to that authority. — Any 
power conferred by these rules upon any authority 
may be exercised by an authority superior to that autho- 
rity constituted under these rules. 

51. Power to extend time. — Where in these rules a 
period is prescribed for doing a certain act, the appro- 
priate Assessing Authority may, for special reasons to 
be recorded in writing, extend that period from time to 
time, but no such extension shall be granted beyond a 
period equal to the period so prescribed. 

52. Authority to withdraw complaint filed by an ap- 
propriate Assessing Authority. — An Appellate Authority, 
or Revising Authority may, on its own motion or on an 
application in that behalf, withdraw a complaint field 
by an appropriate Assessing Authority. 

53. Business owned by a person under disability . — 
A trustee, a guardian or manager (whether appointed by 
a Court or otherwise) or the Court of Wards carrying 
on a business on behalf of dealer, who is under disabi- 
lity, shall be liable to perform all obligations imposed 
by the Act and these rules in respect of such business 
as if he was the dealer and had not been under dis- 
ability and had been carrying on the business himself. 

54. Accounts, registers, cash memos, etc. to be pre- 
served by a dealer— Every registered dealer and other 
dealers on whom a notice has been served under sub- 
section (2) of section 15, shall preserve his books of 
accounts, registers, cash memos, bills and other related 
documents for a period of not less than three years from 
the expiry of the year to which they relate. 

55. Business forming part of estate under the control 

of a Court.— The Administrator-General, the official 
trustee, an executor or administrator, or any Receiver 
carrying on any business forming part of an estate 

placed under his control by order of a Court, shall be 

liable to perform all obligations imposed by the Act and 
these rules in respect of such business to the same extent 
as if he was the dealer and also shall be liable to pay 

any tax assessed or penalty imposed thereon for the 

period during which he remained in control thereof. 

56. Nomination of head office in the case of a dealer 
having more than one place of business. — (1) Where 
a dealer has within the Territory more than one place 
of business (hereinafter referred to as ‘branches’) 
he shall nominate one of such branches as the head 
office of the business for the purpose of this rule. 

(2) Tlie dealer shall intimate the nomination under 
sub-rule (1) to all tho appropriate Assessing Authorities, 
within whose jurisdiction such branches are situated, to- 
gether with the situation thereof, before the close of any 
year in which business is done in one or more of «uch 
branches. 



134 TfctE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) (Part ill— S eC. 3 


(3) In a case falling under this rule, if the dealer 
fails to nominate one of the branches to be the head 
office, the Commissioner may nominate one of such 
branches to be the head office for the purpose of this 
rule. 

(4) All applications, returns or statements prescribed 
under the Act or these rules shall be submitted in res- 
pect of all the branches jointly by the head office to 
the appropriate Assessing Authority. 

(5) The turnover for the whole business shall be the 
aggregate of the turnover of all the branches. 

(6) The person in charge of each branch shall at 
all reasonable time, on demand by the appropriate As- 
sessing Authority, furnish the name and the address 
of the head office, and intimate whether or not his 
branch returns of turnover have been despatched to such 
head office. 

57. Special provisions in the case of dealers having 
more tnan one place of business. — (1) In tne case oi 
a dealer having more tnan one place of business in the 
T crntory,- — • 

(a) all applications, including applications for the 
grant or renewal of certificates, shall be made, 

(b) all returns of turnover, which shall include the 
turnover of all such places of business shall be sub- 
mitted, and 

(c) all notices and orders, required or permitted by 
the Act or these rules to be served on any dealer,, shall 
be issued to and served on the person in charge of the 
head ornce referred to in rule d6. 

(2) A notice, or order, issued to or served on the 
person in charge "ot such head office, shall be deemed 
vo have been issued to and served on all branches of 
the dealer concerned. 

58. Establishment of Check-post. — (1) Check-post 
shall be set up and barriers erected across roads and 
thoroughfares as provided under sub-section (1) of 
section 33, The barriers shall be in the form of con- 
trivance to enable traffic to be stopped. 

(2) No person shall transport beyond a check-post 
any goods the sale of which is hable to tax under this 
Act except after filling declarations in the Form S.T. 
XXIli m triplicate ana presenting it to the check-post 
officer. 

(3j A sub-inspector shall be in charge of a check- 
post and he may be assisted by such staff as may be 
necessary, 

(4) The driver of the vehicle carrying goods or the 
person in charge of the goods shall file all the three 
copies of the declarations in Form S.T, XXIII at the 
check-post. The officer in charge of the check-post 
shall sign and date each copy ot the declaration and 
mark it with the seal of the check-post. He shall then 
return one copy to the driver or the person in charge 
of the goods. Of the two copies of the declarations 
retained at the check-post, one shall be pasted in a guard 
file to be kept there and the other forwarded to the 
appropriate Assessing Authority of the Ward in which the 
consignor or the consignee, as the case may be, has his 
principal place of busmess. 

(5) Eevery officer of the Sales Tax Department not 
below the rank of sub-inspector shall have authority to 
intercept and check and search any vehicle under sub- 
section (3) of section 33. 

59. Superintendence and control of the administra- 
tion under the Act. — (1) (a) The Government shall 
superintendent the administration and the collection of 
the tax leviable under the Act. 

( b ) Subject to the general control and superintendence 
of the Government, the Commissioner shall control all 
officers empowered under the Act. 

(c) Subject as aforesaid and to the control of the 
Commissioner, the Assistant Commissioner shall control 
all other officers empowered under the Act, 

(2) The Sales Tax Officer or Assistant Sales Tax 
Officer in charge of an area is charged with the duty 
of carrying out the provisions of the Act, subject to 
the control of and direction of the Government, Com- 
missioner and Assistant Commissioner. 


60. Jurisdiction. — -(1) For implementing the provisions 
of the Act and these rules, the Territory shall be divided 
into the following four wards comprised of the areas 
noted against each : 

(i) Panjim — -Talukas of Tiswadi, Ponda, Bardez, 
Pemem, Bicholim and Safari. 

(ii) Margao — Talukas of Salecte, Marmagoa, 

Quepem, Sanguem and Canacona, 

(iii) Daman— District of Daman. 

(iv) Diu — District of Diu. 

(2) All the ex-Terri tory dealers shall be registered in 
the ward at Panjim. 

(3) Besides the wards prescribed in sub-rule (1) the 
Commissioner may, by notification, specify a separate 
ward for dealers whose gross turnover exceed the am ount 
fixed under proviso to clause (c) of rule 2. 

61. Penally. — -Whoever commits a breach of any pro- 
vision of these rules shall, on conviction by a Magis- 
trate, be punishable, with a fine, which may extend to 
five hundred rupees, and in the case of a continuing 
breach with a daily fine, which may extend to fifty 
rupees. 

62. Supply of copies of records. — The supply of copies 
of records shall be regulated according to the provisions 
set out in the Third Schedule. 

63. Compounding of offences. — ( 1 ) Subject to the 
limitations in the Act, the Commissioner may decide 
to accept, on application from any person, a sum by 
way of composition of an offence committed by him 
under the Act or these rules, either before or after the 
commencement of the proceedings in respect of such 
offence. 

(2) On taking a decision under sub-rule (1), the 
Commissioner shall, if there are no reasons to the cont- 
rary, marke an order in writing specifying therein— 

(a) the sum determined by way of composition; 

(f>) the date on or before which the sum shall be 
paid into the Government Treasury; 

(c) the authority before whom and the date on or 
before which a receipted challan shall be produced in 
proof of such payment; and 

( d ) the date on or before which the person shall 
report the fact to the Commissioner. 

(3) The Commissioner shall send a copy of such 
order to the person concerned and also to the authority 
referred to in clause (c) of sub-rule (2). 

By order and in the name of the Lieutenant Governor 
of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

T. B. NAGARAJAN 
Finance Secretary 




FIRST SCHEDULE 
(See Rule 48) 


SI. 

No. 

Se.-tion 

Des:ription of Power 

Designation 
of Officer 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1 

2(m) 

Power to permit altera- Assistant Com- 
tion of option by the missioner. 
dealer in respect of inclu- 
ding ‘prices receivable’ or 
‘actually received' in the 
gross turnover; and other 
power to ‘impose terms 
and conditions’ on which 
alteration may be made. 

-> 

11(5) 

Power to require any dea- 
ler to deposit security. 

Sales Tax (Offi- 
cers & Assistant 
Sales Tax Offi- 
cers. 

3 

11(7)(8) rule 
UK l)(c), (d) 
(0. 

Cancellation of 
Registration. 

Assistant Com- 
missioner. 

4 

15(2) 
rule 13(6) 

Power to require any un- 
registered dealer to fur- 
nish returns. 

Sales Tax Offi- 
cers & Assistant 
Sales Tax Offi- 
cers. 



Part III— Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


135 


l 


2 


3 


4 


5 7, 17 & 18 
rules 13, 18 So 
42 


6 20 


To make an assessment 
or reassessment of tax 
or penalty or to fix a date 
for payment or to extend 
the date for payment of 
sales tax or penalty or 
to allow the payment 
of such tax or penalty by 
instalments^and to exer- 
cise all other powers un- 
der sections 7, 17 and 18. 


Sales Tax Offi- 
cers & Assistant 
Sales Tax Offi- 
cers 


Power to require any Sales Tax Gffi- 
dealer to keep such accou- cers & Assistant 
nts as may be prescribed. Sales Tax Offi- 
cers. 


rules 29, 30 
and 31. 


Powers to require a dea- Assistant Corn- 
ier to produce accounts, missjoner, Sales 
furnish any information. Tax Officers & 
inspect the accounts Assistant Sales 
books and other records, Tax Officers, 
and to search premises 
and so on. 


8 27(3) For revision of orders of Assistant Com- 

the Sales Tax Officers or missioncr. 
Assistant', Sales Tax Offi- 
cers, except orders ' L of 
assessment. 


SECOND SCHEDULE 
(Fonns.S. T. I to S. T. XXI11) 

FORM S. T. I. 

Application for Compulsory /Vohintary/Pro vis! onal/Special 
registration under section 11/12/13/14 of the Goa, Daman 
& Dlu (Sales Tax) Act 1964 for Dealers having only one 
place of business in the Union Terltory of Goa. Daman and Diu 

(See rule 4 of the Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

To, 

The Assessing Authority, 

Ward 

I 

Proprietor/Manager/Partner/Director of the business known 

as 

situated ’at 

hereby apply on behalf of the said business for a certificate of 
registration under the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 

1964 and attach herewith a treasury/bank receipt No 

for Rs. 5/-.being the registration fee. 

3. The business is 
Wholly 
Mainly 
Partly 
Partly 
Partly 
Partly 


5. The business, in respect of which this application is made 
has been registered with the Registrar of (if registered in any 
other Stato, also state the name of such State): — 

6. The proprietor, partner or other person is/aro member 

of the (here . . 

insert the name of the Chamber of Commerce or Trade Asso- 
ciation, Beopar Mandal, of which the said person/persons 
is/aro members.) 

7. The business keeps accounts in 

(here namo the language and script). 

8. The gross turnover of the business for the year 1 9 ... .-19 ... , 

was Rs (in figures) Rupees 

(in Words) and it first exceeded the taxable quantum on 

. (in the case of application for provisional 

registration, anticipated turnover during the year shall be 
of Rs ). 

9. The annual accounts are made up for sales up-to-date at 
the end of every year. 

10. The business has no separate warehouse/ 

(number of) separate warehouse as detailed below and no others 
(hore indicate the full address of each of them) 

n 

3 

4 

5 

11. The following classes of goods are ordinarily purchased 
by the business 

(a) for resale : — 

(b) for purpose of manufacture : — 

(c) for use in the packing of goods for sale/resale (con- 

tainers and other packing materials) 

12. The business manufactures for sale the following classes 
of goods : — 

13. The business does/doos not import goods direct from 
other Countries/States: 

14. In the case of special registration enter here the number 
of the previous certificate of registration, the Ward in Which 
registered and the date of its cancellation: — 


DECLARATION 

1 hereby declare that the above statements are true and 
complete to the best of my knowledge and belief. 

Place 

Dated (Signature of Dealer) 


FORM S. T. H 

Application for Compulsory/Voluntary/Provislonal/Speclal 
registration under Section 11/12/13/14 of the Goa, Daman 
& Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 for dealers having more 
than one place of business In the Union Territory of Goa Daman 
and Dlu. 

(See rule 4 of Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 
To, 

The Assessing Authority, 

Ward. 


*■* 3. The namc(s) and address(es) of the proprietor of the busi- 
ness/paxtnors of Khe business/all persons having any interest 
in the business /managing director of the Company together 
with their father’s, name, etc., arc as under - 



Father’s 




Name 

or 

husband’s 

name 

Age 

Home 

address 

Signature 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 


4. The proprietor or any partner of, or any other person 
having an interest in the business has interest in no other busi- 
ness anywhere in India/has interest in the following other 
business in India : — 


Pro’prietor/Manager/Partuer/Director of the business known 

whoso Head Office in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman 

and Diu is situated at 

hereby apply on behalf of the said business for a certificate 
of registration under the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1964, and attach herewith a treasury / bank receipt 
]q 0 .’ for Rs. 5/- being the registration fee. 

2. The business is:— 

Wholly 

Mainly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

3. The name(s) and address(es) of the proprietor of the 
business / partners of the business / all persons having any 
interest in the business managing director of the Company 
together with their fathers namo, etc,, are as under 


Name(s) of the 

Name and parti- 
culars of the busi- 

Address of places 
of business 


Father’s 

or 


Home 

Signature 

proprietor, partner 
or other persons 

nenes 


Name 

husband's 

name 

Age 

Address 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 



136 


)Tart III— Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


4. The Proprietor or any partner of, or any other person 
having an interest in the business has interest in no other busi- 
ness anywhere in India/has interest in the following other busi- 
nesses in India : — 


Name of the pro- Names and particu- Addresses of places 
prietor, partner or lars of the business uf business 
other persons 


5. The business in respect of which this application tis made, 
has been registered with the Registrar of (if registered in any 
other State, stato also the name of such State): — 

6. The Proprietor/partner or interested person/s is/are nnm- 

ber/s of (here 

insert tho name of the Chamber of Commerce or Trade Asso- 
ciation, Beopar Mandal, of which the said person/persons 
is/arc mombers). 

7. The business keeps accounts in 

(here name the language and script). 

8. The gross turnover of tho business for tho year 19.. -19.. 

was Rs fin figures) Rupees 

(in words) and it first exceeded the taxable quantum on 

(in the case of application fer 

rovisional registration, anticipated turnover during the year shall 
e of Rs ). 

9. The annual accounts are made up for sales up-to-date 
at the end of every year, 

10. Tho following classes of goods are ordinarily purchased 
by the business— 

(а) for resale : — 

(б) for purpose of manufacture : — 

(r) for use in tho packing of goods for salc/rcrale (con- 
tainers and other packing materials) 

11. The business manufactures for sale the following classes 
of goods : — 

12. Tho business docs/does not import goods direct from 
other Countries/States. 

13. The business has (number of) additional 

places of business and has no separate warehouse/ 

(number of) separate warehouse at the addresses enumerated 
below and no other warehouses or places of business : — 

(a) Additional places of business : — (indicate their full 
address). 

1 


3 

4 

5 

(6) Warehouses : — (indicate their full address), 

1 

2 

3 

4 

14. In tho case of special registration enter here the number 
of the previous certificate of registration, the Ward in which 
registered and the date of its cancellation : — 


DECLARATION 

I hereby declare that the above statements are true and comp- 
lete to the best of my knowledge and belief. 

Place 

Dated (Signature of Dealer) 


FORM S. T. in 

Form of application for registration under the Goa, Daman and 
Dlu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 for Ex-Territory Dealers selling 
goods in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and 
Diu. 

(See rule A of tho Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 
To, 

Tire Assessing Authority, 


I, 

Proprietor/Manager/Partner/Director of the business known 

as 

situated at .............. 

n the State uf hereby apply on be hr If ol the 


said business for a certificate of registration under tho Goa, Daman 
and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, and attach herewith a trea- 
sury /Bank receipt No for Rs. 5/- being 

the registration fee. 

2, The name of the proprictor/the names of tho partners of 
the business/the names of all persons having any interest in the 
business/Managing Director of the Company, together with their 
father’s name, age, home address, etc, are as under :• — 



Father’s 



Name 

or husband's Age 

Home 

Signature 


Name 

Address 

1 

2 3 

4 

5 


3, The proprietor /any partner of any other person having 
an interest in the business has no interest in other business any- 
where in India/has interest in the following other businesses in 
India : 


Name of the pro- Names and purlieu- Addresses of places 
prietor, partner or lars of the busincs.es of business 
other persons. 

1 2 3 


4. Tho business, in respect of which this application is made 
has been registered with the Registrar of (if registered in any 
other State, also [state the name of such State) : — 


5, Tho Proprietor/partner or other person. . . , is/are member 

of tho (here 

insert tho name of the Chamber of Commerce or Trade Asso- 


ciation or Beopar Mandal of which, the said person/persons 
is/are members). 

6. The business keeps accounts in 

(here name the language and script). 

7. The annual gross turnover of the business for the year 

19 -19 was Rs (in figures) Rupees 

(in words). 

8. The accounts'are maintained from to 

to 

9. The business ordinarily deals in tho following goods 

10. Tho business ordinarily manufactures for sale tho fol- 
lowing goods : — 

11. Tho dealer has additional places of business at the fol- 
lowing places : — 

12. I am/the business is registered in the Sales Tax Depart- 
ment of State and my/our 

Registration Certificate No. is 


DECLARATION 

I hereby declare that tho abovo statements arc truo and comp- 
lete to the best of my knowledge and belief. 

Place 

Dated (Signature of Dcalor) 


(For uso in Sales Tax Office only) 

(a) Issued Registration Certificate No 

dated 

(b) Application rejected. 

Signature 

Sales Tax Officer nominated for Ex- 
Territory Dealers. 


FORM S. T, IV 

Certificate of Registration for a dealer having Only one place 
of Business in the Union^Terrltory of Goa, Daman and 
Dlu. 

(See rule 3 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

No Ward 

This is to certify/ that Shri/Mcssrs/thc 


who/which is/are carrying on the business known as 

and situated at 

has been registered as dealer under section of the 

Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, with effect from 

19 until cancelled/upto 19 — 



Part III— Sfc. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA.22, 1887) 


137 


2. The busloess is : — 

Wholly 

Mainly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

3. The sales of the following goods to this dealer will he 
free of tax : — 

(a) For rosale 

(b) For purposes of manufacture :■ — 

(c) For uso in the packing of goods for sale/rcsale (con- 
tainers and other packing materials) : — 

4. The return in Form S. T. VIII shall be furnished by the 
dealer annually /quartcrly/monthly, along with the receipt of 
the payment of the tax. 

5. The tax is payable annually/quarterly/monthly. 

6. The dealer keeps no separate warehouse/.... 

(number of) warehouses at the following places : — 


I Seal of Asses- Signature 

Dated sing Authority Assessing Authority 

Ward 

Note; — (1) This registration certificate shall be displayed 
by the dealer at the business premises and it shall 
be produced for inspection on demand by any 
person exercising authority under the Act and 
these rules. 

(2) Any change in the name, place or ownership of 
the business should be noticed within 30 days 
and the Registration Certificate got emended 
accordingly. 


FORM S. T. V. 

Certificate of Registration for a Dealer haring more than one 
place of Business in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Din. 

(See rule 5 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

No Ward 

This is to certify that Shri/Messrs/thc 


who/which is/are carrying on the business known as 

and whose Head Office in the Union Territory 

of Goa, Daman and Diu is situated at 

has been registered as dealer under section of 

Ooa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, 

2. The business is ; — 

Wholly 

Mainly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

3. The dealer has (number of) additional 

places of business at tho addresses noted below :• — 

4. The dealer has no separate Warehouse/ 

(number of) warehouses at the addresses noted below 

5. Tho sales of the following goods to this dealer will be free 
of tax : — 

(a) For resale ; — 

(b) For purposes of manufacture 

(c) For the use in packing of goods for sale/resale (con- 
tainers and other packing materials) : — 

6. The return in Form S. T. VITT is to be furnished by the 
dealer annually/quartcrly/monthly, along with the receipt of 
tho payment of the tax. 


7. The tax is payable annually/quarterly/monthly. 

Dated Assessing Authority 

Ward 

Notes : — 

(«) This registration certificate or copy thereof Bhall be 
displayed by the dealer at every place of business 
and it shall be produced for inspection on demand 
by any person exercising authority under the Act 
and these rules. 


(b) Any change in the name, place or ownership of the 
business or number of places of business should be 
notified within 30 days and the Registration Certi- 
ficate got amended or replaced accordingly. 


FORM S. T. VI 

Certificate of Special Registration for a Dealer liable under 
Section 5 of the Goa, Damon and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 

(See rule 5 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

No Ward 

This is to certify that Shri/Messrs/the 


who/which is/are carrying on the business known as 

and with place of business/Head Office situa- 


ted at has been registered under section 14 

of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, with effect 
from 19 until cancelled. 


2. The business is 

Wholly 

Mainly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

3. The dealer has no additional place cf business/ 

(number of) additonal places of business at the addresses noted 
below : — 

4. Tho dealer has no separate warehouse/ 

(number of) warehouses at the addresses noted below : — 

5. The dealer generally sells the following goods : — 

6. Tho return in Form S. T. VIII shall be furnished by the 
dealer annually/quarterly/monthly, along with the receipt of 
the payment of the tax, 

7. The tax is payable annually /quartcrly/montlly. 

Date Assessing Authority 

Ward 

Notes ; — 

(a) This registration certificate or oopy thereof shall bo 

displayed by the dealer at every place of business 
and it shall be produced for inspection on demand 
by any person exercising authority under tho Act 
and these rules. 

(b) Any change in the name, place or ownership of the 

business or number of places of business should be 
notified within 30 days and tho Registration Certi- 
ficate got amended or replaced accordingly. 


FORM S. T. VH 

Certificate of Registration for an Ex-Territory Dealer selling 
goods in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Din. 

(See rule 5 of Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

No Ward 

This is to certifify that Shri/Messrs/thc 


who/which is/are carrying on the business known as 

with place of business/Head Office situated at 

, . : has been registered as dealer under 

the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 with effect 
from 19 until cancelled. 

2. The business is 

Wholly 

Mainly 

Partly 

Partly 

Partly 

3. Tho dealer generally sells the following goods In the Union 
Territory of Ooa, Daman and Diu, 

4. The return in Form S. T. VIII shall be furnished by the 
dealer annually/quarterly/monthly and shall include all sales 
made in tho Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

5. The tax is payablo annually/quarterly/monthly. 

Dated Signature 

Assessing Authority 
Ward 

Note ; — Any change in the name or ownership of the business 
should be notified within 30 days and the Registration 
Certificate got amended accordingly. 



138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


FORM S. T. Vin 

Return of Sales Tax payable for the year/quarter/month end- 
ing 

(See rule 13 of the Goa, Daman and Dlu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

Registration Certificate No Ward 

Name of the Dealer 

Address of the Dealer 


Amount 

A. Sales prices received and receivable for 

goods sold or supplied during the re- 
turn-period — 

Deductions from above sales prices) : 

B. (/) Cost of freight, delivery or instal- 

lation charges in case they are 
separately shown to the customer 
in the cash memo or bill and if 
they are included in above referred 
sales price — — — 

(tt) Cash discount allowed according 
to ordinary trade practice, in case 
it is separately shown to the cus- 
tomer in the cash momo or bill 
and if it is Included in above re- 
fored sales prices — 

(HO 

C. Gross turnover (A minus B) 

D. Deductions (from above gross turn- 
over ) : 

(/) Turnover on Tax-free goods sold 

(Section 7(3)(I) 

(li) Turnover on goods sold to regis- 
tered dealers (Section 7(3)(U) : 

«« :::::::::::: 

(Hi) 

(tv) 

(b) 

(ill) Turnover on goods sold as per 
Section 7(3)(1II). (Taxable at 
first point) — . 

(iv) Turnover on goods sold to any 
undertaking supplying electrical 
energy to tho public (Section 


(v) Turnovor on goods sold to an ad- 

dress outside Goa, Daman and 
Dlu as per Section 7 (3)(V) 

(vi) Turnover on goods sold as per 

Soction 7(3)(VI) 

E. Taxable turnover (C minus D) 

F. Amount of tax payablo on taxable turn 

over (E): (See Section 7(l)(a)(b) 
(c): 

(I) At the rate of 10 Paise in the ru- 
pee, calculated on Rs 

(H) At the rate of 2 Paise in tho rupee, 
calculated on Rs 

(lit) At the rate of 5 Paise in the rupee, 
calculated on Rs 

(iv) 

Total amount of tax payable .... 

G. Amount, if any, credited by Refund 

Adjustment Order No dated..., 

H. Amount of tax paid 

Total sum 

I. Number and date of the relevant trea- 
sury/Bank receipt attached to this re- 
turn in proof of payment : 


DECLARATION 

I hereby declare that tho above statements are true and 
complete to the best of my knowlodgo and belief. 

Place 

Date 


FORM S. T. IX 

Application for permission for payment of a fixed fee In lieu 
of Tax under sub-section 2 of section 7 of the Act, 

(See rule 14 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

To. 

The Assessing Authority, 

Ward 

I, son of 

Proprietor/partner /manager of the 

business, the particulars of which are detailed below hereby 
apply for permission to compound for the tax assessable by 
paying in lieu thereof a lump sum : — 

(1) Name of the dealer 

(2) Place of business 

(3) Registered in Ward 

(4) Registration Certificate No 

(5) Status (of the business) 

(6) Particulars of goods dealt in : — 

(7) Turnover of the business and tax thereon during the 
year preceding that for which the permission is 
sought : — 

(i) Year : 

(ii) Gross turnover : 

(Hi) Taxable turnover : 

(iv) Tax paid : 

(8) Estimated turnover and tax for the year for which 
permission is sought 

(/) Year : 

(//) Gross turnover : 

(Hi) Taxable turnover : 

(iv) Tax : 

(9) Circumstances under which the application Is being 

made : 

I declare that the above statements are truo and complete 
to tho best of my knowledge and beliof. 

Dated Signature 


FORM 8. T. X 

Certificate granting permission for payment of lump sum In lieu 
of tax under sub-section 2 of section 7 of the Goa, Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 

(See rulo 14 of the Goa, Daman and Dlu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Certificate No For the year 19.. -19.. 

Sales Tax Officer, 

Ward 

This is to certify that tho dealer whose particulars are detailed 
below is permitted to compound for tho tax assessable on his 

taxable turnover for the financial year 

by payment, in lieu 

thereof, of the amount of lump sum as specified below : — 

(1) Name of the dealer 

(2) Place of business 

(3) Registration Certificate No. — 

(4) Particulars of goods dealt in 


(5) Period for which permission to compound tax is grant- 


tod : — from 19 

to 19., .. 


(6) Amount of lump sum payable : — Rs 

(7) When payable : 

This provision is subject to the following conditions : — 

(8) Conditions : — 

(1) The dealer shall not start a now branch of busi- 
ness or make any change In the nature or des- 
cription of goods sold without previous per- 
mission. 


Date 


(2) The dealer shall surrender this certificate within 
ton days after the expiry of its validity or when- 
ever required to do so. 

Signature 


(Seal) Designation 


Name and 

Date of Year for Lump When designa- 

ronowal which sum payable tion of 

renewed determined the renew- 

ing officer. 


(Signature of Dealer) 




Part III— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


139 


Counterfoil 
FORM S. T. XI 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(See Rule 15) 

Sales Tax Office, Year 196. .. .-196. . 

ward 

SerialNo.A / (Seal of) 

(issuing) 

(authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash menio/bill No did 

have been purchased by me/us from M/s. 

and are 

duly covered by my/our registration cer- 
tificate No dtd and 

they arc intended for resale/use as raw 
materials in the manufacture of goods 
for salc/use in the packing of goods for 
sale/resale, within the Territory, 

Name & address in full of the purcha- 
sing dealer 


Duplicate 
FORM S. T. XI 

The Go , m and Dlu Sales Tax Rules, 

1 4 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(See Rule 15) 

Sales Tax Office, Year 196. .-196. . 

ward 

Serial No. A / (Seal of) 

(issuing) 

(authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash memo/biil No dtd 

have been purchased by me/us from M/s. 

and arc 

duly covered by my/our registration cer- 

tificateNo dtd and 

they arc intended for resalc/use as raw 
materials in the manufacture of goods 
for sale/use in the packing of goods for 
salc/resale, within the Territory. 

Name & address in full of the purcha- 
sing dealer : — - 


Original 

FORM S. T. XT 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(See Rule 1 5) 

Sales Tax Office, Year 196. .-196.. 

ward 

SerialNo.A/ (Seal of) 

(issuing) 

(authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash mcmo/bill No dtd 

have been purchased by mc/us from M/s. 

and are 

duly covered by my/our registration cer- 
tificate No dtd and 

they are intended for resale/use as raw 
materials in the manufacture of goods 
for sale/use in the packing of goods fo r 
salc/resale, within the Territory. 

Name & address in full of the purcha- 
sing dealer ; — 


Date Date... Date 

(Signature) (Signature) (Signature) 

(Strike out whichever is not applicable). (Strike out whichever is not applicable). (Strike out whichever is not applicable). 

[Note to be retained by the purchasing [Note : — to be retained by the selling [ Note : — to be furnished by the seller to 
dealer). dealer). the Assessing Authority). 


Counterfoil 
FORM S. T. XII 

'The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(See Rule 15) 

Sales TaxOffice, . Year 196. .-196. . 
ward 

Serial No. B / ( Seal of ) 

( issuing) 
(authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash memo/bill No dtd 

havo been purchased by me/us from 

M/s 

and are duly covered by my/our Regis- 
tration Certificate No dtd 

(issued in ward) and they are 

intended for re-sale in the course of inter- 
state trade or commerce/resale in the 
course of export out of Tudia or resale after 
such export. 

Name & address in full of the purchasing 
dealers : — 


Date 


(Signature) 

(Strike out whichever is not applicable) 

[Note ; — to be retained by the purchasing 
dealer]. 


Duplicate 
FORM S. T. XII 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(Sec Rule 15) 

Sales Tax Office, Year 196. .-196. . 

ward 

Serial No. B/ (Seal of) 

( issuing ) 
(authority) 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash memo/bill No dtd 

have [been purchased by me/us from 

M/s 

and are duly covered by my/our Regis- 
tration Certificate No dtd 

(issued in ward) and they are 

intended for re-sale in the course of inter- 
state trade or commerce/resale in the 
course of export out of India or resale after 
such export. 

Name & address in full of the purchasing 
dealer : — 


Date 


(Signature) 

(Strike out whichever is not applicable) 

[Note : — to be retained by the selling dea- 
ler). 


Origin al 

FORM S. T. XTI 

The Goa, Daman and Dlu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964 

FORM OF DECLARATION 
(See Rule 1 5) 

Sales Tax Office, Year 196. .-196. . 

ward 

Serial No. B/ ( Seal of 

( issuing ) 
(authority 


Certified that the goods mentioned in 

the cash mcmo/bill No dtd 

have been purchased by me/us from 

M/s 

and are duly covered by my/our Regis- 
tration Certificate No dtd 

(issued in ward) and they are 

intended for re-sale in the course of inter- 
state trade or commerce/resale in the 
course of export out of India or resale after 
such export. 

Name & address in full of the purchasing 
dealers :■ — 


Date 


(Signature) 

(Strike out whichever is not applicable) 

[Note : — to be furnished by the seller to 
the Assessing Authority). 



140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTlKA 22, 1887) 


[Part HI— Sec, 3 


FORM s. T, XIII 
Certificate of Non-Taxable Turnover 
(See rule 16 of tho Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Sales Tax Officer, 

Ward 

Certificate No 

WHEREAS 

(dealer) 

bearing Registration Certificate No dated 

has declared that no sales effected by him are liablo to tax under 
the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, it is hereby 

certified that the said 

(dealer) is not required 

to furnish any return in Form S. T. VIII under the Goa, Daman 
and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964, in respect of the yoar 

Signature 

(Assessing Authority) 

Place 

Dated 

Renewals 


Date of 

Year for which 

1 Signature of Assessing Au- 

renewal 

renewed 

| thority 











FORM S. T. XIV 

Notice under Section 17 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) 
Act, 1964. 

(See rule 18 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Sales Tax Office, 
Ward 

No. Dated the 19 

To, 


Whereas, 

(a) You, a doalor registered under Certificate No 

of ward have furnished return (s) for 

tho year(s) quarter(s) mooth(s) ending 


And there are certain points in connection with the re-turn (s 
submitted by you undor section 15 of the Goa, Daman and Diu 
(Sales Tax) Act, 1964, in regard to which I should like some 
further information for assessing your sales in respect of tho 
above mentioned period under sub-section (1) of section 17 
of the samo Act ; 

(b) You, a dealer registered under Certificate No 

of ward have not furnished return(s) re- 

quired under section 1 5 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales 
Tax) Act, 1964, for the year(s) /quarter(s)/Month(s) ending 


And it appears to me to bo necessary to make an assessment 
under sub-section (1) of section 17 ol the same Act in respect 
of the above period ; 

(c) You import into tho Tcrritory/manufacturo/process’ 
purchaso goods for sale and I am satisfied on information which 

has come into my possession that your salos in the year 

have exceeded tho 

taxablo quantum and you have been liable to pay tax under 
the Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964, in respect 


of poriod commencing on but that 

you failed to get yoursolf registered under section of 

the said Act in time, and it appears to me to be necessary to 


make an assessment under sub-soction (2) of section 17 of tho 

s aid Act in respect of the period from 

to - 

1 should be obliged therefore, if you could attend my office 

at on at 

either in person or by an agent and there to produce or cause 
there to be produced at the said time and placo the accounts 
and documents specified below for tho purposes of such assess- 
ment, together with any objection which you may wish to prefer 
and any evidence which you may wish to adduce in connection 
therewith, and also to show cause on that date and at that time 
as to why in addition to the amount of tax to bo assessed on 
you a penalty as prescribed under soction 17 should not be im- 
posed on you. 

2. In the event of your failure to comply with this notice, 
shall proceed to asses under soction 17 of tho Goa, Daman and 
Diu (Salos Tax) Act, 1964 to the best of my judgement without 
further reference to you. 

Signature 

Assessing Authority 

Particulars oi account and documents required to be pro- 
duced : — • 



ORIGINAL 
(To be retained by 
he payer) 


FORM S. T. XV 
CHALAN 

The Goa, Daman and Din Sales Tax Act, 1964 

(See rule 21 of (he Goa, Daman and Dlu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

XII— Sales Tax 

Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 
CLalan of tax, penalty, composition money, 
registration fee and other fees paid to the 

Treasury/Sab-Treasury 

Branch of the State Bank of India for the period 


Reserve Bank of India 
from 


By whom tendered 

Name and address of 
the person on whose 
behalf money is paid. 


Registration Certificate 

No issued by 

the Sales Tax Office 
of Ward. 


.to. 


Payment on 
account of 

Amo- 
unt 
(in fi- 
gures) 

(i) Tax under sec- 
tions 15 to 18 
(ri) Penalty under 
section 



(iii) Composition 
money 


(i>) Registration fee 


(v) Other fees ...... 


(vi) 


Total 





Rupees Cm words). 
Dated 


(Signature of Dealer 
or Depositor) 


(For use in the treasury) 

1/ Received payment of Rs 

fin figures) 

Rupees 

(in words) 

2. Date of entry 

Chaian No, 

Treasury' Officer, 

Treasurer, Accountant, 


Agent or Manager 


Stamp of Treasury 

L/M32SGI/65 


S DUPLICATE 

(To be furnished by 
the payer to the 
respective? Assessing 
Authority) 

FORM S. T. XV 
CHALAN 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 

(See rule 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

XU — Sales Tax 

Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 
Chaian of tax, penalty, composition money, 

registration fee and other fees paid to the 

Treasury/Sub-Treasury 


Branch of the State B ank of India for the period 


Reserve Bank of India 
from 


•to . 


By whom teadered. 


Name and address of 
the person on whose 
behalf money is paid. 


Registration Certificate 

No issued by 

the Sales Tax Office of 

Ward. 


Payment on 
account of 


(/) Tax under sec- 
tions 15 to 18 
(if) Penalty under 
section 

(Hi) Composition 
money 


(iv) Registration 

fee 


(v) Other fees . 

M> 


Total. 


Amo- 
unt 
(in fi- 
gures) 


Rupees (in words). 
Dated 


Signature of Dealer 
or Depositor 


(For use in the treasury') 
1. Received payment of Rs 


Rupees. 


2. Date of entry' 

Chaian No. 

Treasurer, Accountant, 
Stamp of Treasury 


(in figures) 

(in words) 

Treasury officer 
Agent or Manager 


TRIPLICATE 
(For the Treasury) 


FORM S .T. XV 
CHALAN 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Ac f, 1S64 

(See rule 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

XII — Sales Tax 

Receipt under the State Sales Tax Act 
Chaian of fax, penalty, composition money, 

recisti alien fee and other fees paid to tile 

Treasury/Sub-Treasury 


Branch cf the State Bank of India for the period 


Reserve Bank of India 
from to . 


By whom tendered .... 

Name and address of 
the person on whose 
behalf money is paid. 


Registration Certificate 

No issued by 

the Sales Tax Office 
Ward. 


Payment on 
account of 

Amo- 
unt 
(in fi- 
gures) 

(i) Tax under sec- 
tions 15 to 18 
(h) Penalty under 


(iii) Composition 
money 


(Iv) Registration fee 




iv'n . . .’ 


Total 






Rupees (in words) . 
Dated 


(Signature of Dealer 
or Depositor) 


(For use in the treasury) 

1. Received payment of Rs 

(in figures) 

Rupees 

(in words) 

2. Date of entry 

Chaian No. 

Treasury Officer 

Treasurer, Accountant, 


Agent or Manager 


Stamp of Treasury 


QUADRUPLICATE 
(To be sent by Treasury 
to the respective Sales 
Tax Office) 


FORM S. T. XV 
CHALAN 

The Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Act, 1S64 

(See rule 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales 
Tax Rules, 1964) 

XII — Sales Tax 

Receipt unJer the State Sales Tax Act 
Chaian of tax, penalty, composition money, 

registration fee and other fees paid to (he 

Treasury/Sub-Treasury 


Branch of the State Bank of India for the period 
Reserve Bank of India 

from to 


By whom tendered. 


Name and address of 
the, person on whose 
behalf money is paid. 


Registration Certificate 

No issued fay 

the Sales Tax Office of . . . . 
Ward. 


Payment on 
account cf 


Amo- 
unt 
(in fi- 
gures) 


(t) Tax under sec- 
tions 15 lo 18 
(M) Penalty’ under 
section 


(lit) Composition 
money 

(tv) Registration 
fee 


v Other fees, 
(vi) 


Total. 


Rupees (in words). 
Dated 


Signature of Dealer 
or Depositor 


(For use in the treasury) 
1 . Received payment of Rs 


Rupees. 


2. Date of entry 

Chaian No. 

[Treasurer, Accountant, 
Stamp of Treasury 


(in figures) 

(in words) 

Treasury officer 
Agent or Manager 


Part III-Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


the gazette Of india, November 13, i$65 (kartika n , 1887) 


[ Fart III— Sec. 3 


142 


FORM S. T. XVI 

Notice of assessment under Section 17 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 

(See rule 25 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1904) 

Salos Tax Office, 
Ward. 

No datod 

To, 




(2) Penalty imposed 

Rs. 

Total of B (1) and B (2) 

Rs 

Less amount paid already 

Rs. 

Net amount due 

Rs. 


You are heroby directed to pay the sum of Rs 

(in figures). Rupees 

Treasury 

(in words) into the Sub-treasury at (place) 

State flank of India 


You are hereby informod that your taxable turnover for 

the ycar/quarter/month ending has 

been assessed to sales tax, penalty etc., as under :■ — 

A. Taxablo turnover determined Rs. 

B. (1) Tax assessed Rs. 


on or before (date) and furnish the 

.receipt in proof of payment to this office on or before 

(date) failing which the said sum 

will be recoverable from you as an arrear of land revenue. 

2. A chalan in form S. T. XV is onclosed for the purpose. 

Signature 

Assessing Authority 

(Seal of Assessing Authority) 


FORM S. T. XVII 

(See rule 2S of tho Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

Book No Vouchor No 

REFUNDS 

Counterfoil order for the refund of tax and/or 
penalty, under the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Act, 1964 
Refund payable to 


Registration Certificate No issuod 

by Sales Tax Office, Ward. 

Date of Order di recting refund 


Amount of refund : (a) Rs 

Number in collection register showing the 
collection of amount regarding which re- 
fund is made : 

(Signed) 

Designation 

Date 

Signature of the recipient of the voucher 


Troasury/Sub- 

Date of encashment in the State Bank of 

Roscrvc Bank 


Treasury 
India 
of India 

Date. , 

(a) Classification : 

Tax 

Penalty 


Place 


Rs, Paise 


FORM S. T. XVU 
(See rulo 28 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

Book No Voucher No 

REFUNDS 

Order for the refund of tax and/or penalty 
under tho Goa, Daman and Diu 
Sales Tax Act, 1964 

Treasury/Sub-Treasury 
Payable at tho State Bank of India* - 
Reserve Bank of India 
within one month of the date of issue. 


FORM S. T. XVII 
(See rule 28 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Sales Tax Rules, 1964) 

Book No Voucher No 

REFUNDS 

Order for the refund of tax and/or penalty 
under the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Sales Tax Act, 1964. 

T re asury /S ub-Trc asury 
Payable at the State Bank of India 
Reserve Bank of India 
within one month of tho date of issue. 


Tho Treasury /Sub-Treasury Officer, 

The Agent or Manager of- Statc 

Reserve 

Bank of India 

Bank of India 

1, Certified that with reference to tho 

assessment record of 

.bearing Registra- 
tion Certificate No tissued by 

the Sales Tax Office of 

Ward), for the period from 

to a refund of Rs 

is due to 


The Troasury/Sub-Treasury Officer, 


The Agent or Manager of 

Bank of India 
Bank of India 


State 

Reserve 


1. Certified that with reference to tho 

assessment record of 

bearing Registra- 
tion Certificate No (issuod by 

tho sales Tax Office of 

Ward), for the period from 

to a refund of Rs 

is due to 


2. Certified that the amount of tax and/or 
penalty concerning which this refund 
is allowed has been duly credited to 
tho Government Treasury. 

3. Certified that no refund ordor regard- 
ing the sum now in question has pre- 
viously been granted and this order of 
refund has been entered in the original 
file of assossment under my signature. 

4. Please pay to 

the sum of Rs 

(in figures) 

Rupees 

(in words) 

Date 

(Signed) 

Designation 

Treasury/Sub- 

Date of encashment in the State Bank of 
Reserve Bank 

Treasury 
India 
of India 

Date Place 

Pay Rupees only. 

The 196.... 

Treasury 

Officer-incharge of — ■ 

the Bank's 

Sub-Treasury 
branch 

Received payment. 

Claimant’s Signature 
Examined, 

Accountant 
(a) Classification : 


2. Certified that the amount of (ax and/or 
penalty concerning which this refund 
is allowed has been duly credited to 
tho Government Treasury. 

3. Certified that no refund order regard- 
ing the sum now in question has pre- 
viously been granted and this order of 
refund has been entered in the original 
file of assossment under my signature. 

4. Please pay to 

tho sum of Rs 

(in figures) 

Rupees 

(in words) 

Date 

(Signed) 

Designation 

Treasury/Sub- 

Date of encashment in the State Bank of 
Reserve Bank 

Treasury 
India 
of India 

Date Place 

Pay Rupees only 

Tho 196 

Treasury 

Officer-in-charge of 

the Bank’s 

Sub-Treasury 
branch ■ 

Received payment. 

Claimant’s Signature 
Examined, 

Accountant 
(a) Classification : 


Tax. , . . 
Penalty 


Rs, 


Paise 


Tax 

Penalty . 


Rs. Paise 




THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


143 


Part III — Sec. 3] 


FORM S. T. XVIII 
Refund Adjustment Order 

(See rule 28 ol' the Goa Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Book No Refunds 

Voucher No 

To, 


I. Certified with reference to the assessment' records of the 


dealer (name) 

bearing registration certificate number of. 

ward for the period from to 


that a refund of Rs (in figures) Rupees 

fin words) 

is due to (name) 


2. Certified that the tax concerning which this refund is allow- 
ed has been credited into the treasury. 

3. Certified that no refund order regarding the sum iD ques- 
tion has previously been granted and this order of refund has 
been entered tin the oiigmal file of assessment under my sig- 
nature. 

4. This refund will be adjusted towards the amount of sales 

tax due from the said dealer for the period from 

to or 

any subsequent period. 

5. The dealer shall attach this order to the return to be fur- 
nished by him for the month/quarter/year against which the ad- 
justment is desired. 

(Seal of Assessing Authority) 

Signature 

Dated Designation 

Place 


FORM S. T. XIX 

Appeal against an order of assessment and/or penalty under 
section 17 of the Goa, Daman and Dlu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964. 

(See rule '33 of the Goa, Daman ; and Diu Sales 
tax Rules, 1964). 


To, 


Dated the 


The 


(/) Registration No 

(if) Name of the doaler 

(ill) Status 

(write here individual, Hindu undivided family, firm, 
limited company, association of persons, etc,, as the 
ca c c may be). 

((v) Stile of business 

(v) Location of business 

(v/) Address to which communication should ordinarily be 
despatched 

(yti) Name of officer who passed the order 

(vlll) Designation 

(ix) Period to which the appeal relates 

(x) Date of ordor 

(xl) Date of service ol notice 

(xli) Amount of demand 

Tax 

Penalty 

Total 

(xili) Amount paid 

Tax 

Penalty 

Total 

(xtv) Amount in dispute 

(xv) Amount of fee paid 

The petition of 

a /° on 

bohalf of the dealer whose particulars have been mentioned above, 
showeth as follows : — 

(I) Under tho Goa, Daman and Diu (Sales Tax) Act, 1964 
your petitioner has been assessed on a total taxable 

turnover of Rs for 

the period mentioned above. 


(2) A penalty of Rs has been 

imposed on your petitioner. 

(3) Your petitioner’s gross turnover and taxablo turnover, 

according to the provisions of tho Act, of the business 
place mentioned above for the period mentioned 

abovo amounted to Rs and Rs 

respectively, 

(4) Such turnover was actually received /receivable during 
the said perid and your petitioner had no other 
sale proceeds during the said period. 

(5) Your petitioner has submitted proper return of his turn- 

over to the office of 

under section II of the Act and has complied with 
all tho terms of tho notice of assessment served on 

him by the under 

section 17 of the Act. 

(6) Your petitioner was prevented by sufficient cause from 

making the return required by section 15 or did not 
receive the notice issued under section 17 or had not 
reasonable opportunity to comply or was prevented 
by sufficient cause from complying with terms of the 
notice or from producing evidence as more particularly 
specified in the statement of grounds of appeal hereto 
attached. 

(7) Your petitioner did not conceal the particulars of his 

gross and taxable turnover or deliberately furnish 
inaccurate particulars thereof, but as will be seen 
from the statement of grounds of appeal attached, 
returned it at its real amount to the best of his knowledge 
and belief. 

(8) Your petitioner, therefore, prays that he may be asses- 
sed accordingly or that he may be declared not to 
be chargeable under the Act or that the assessment 
may be cancelled and/or remanded for reassessment 
or that the order imposing a penalty upon your peti- 
tioner may bo set aside. 

(9) A certified copy of tho order appealed against is atta- 

ched. 


GROUNDS OF APPEAL 

(Enter here a concise statement of the reasons on which you 
rely for the purpose of this appeal) 

I 

the petitioner named in the above petition, do hereby declare 
that what is stated herein is true to the best of my information 
and belief and that the tax admitted by me to be due in respect 
of tho order of ^assessment appealed against lias been paid 

by treasury chalan No 

dated 

Signature 

Designation 

(To be signed by the appellant or by an agent duly 
authorised in writing in this behalf by the appellant). 
Note : — Strike out phrases or paragraph not applicable, 


FORM S. T. XX 
Notice of Re-Assessment 

( See rule 42 of Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Sales Tax Office, 

Ward. 

No Dated the 19. . . . 

To 

* 


Whereas in consequence of definite information in my 
possession, I have reasons to believe that the turnover of 
your business assessable to sales tax for the year ending 
the 31st March 19. . . . has 

been under assessed. 

escaped levy of the appropriate fee. 

J, therefore propose to re-assess the said tunover that 

has been unde r a s sessed. 

escaped levy of the appropriate fee. 

I hereby require you to show cause within 

days of the service of this notice on you why the con- 
templated actios should not be taken in your case, 
templatcd actions should not be taken in your case.* 

Assessing authority 

(Seal of Assessing 

Authority). Ward 

.Name and address of the person to whom notice is issued 
with nature of his business together with his registered num- 
ber. 



144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part HI— Sec. 3 


form s. T. XXI 

Notice of tax demanded on re-assessment 

(See rule 43 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 

Sales Tax Office, 
Ward 

No Dated 19 

To, 


You are hereby informed that on re-assessment of your turn- 
over for tho year your taxable tu - 

over has been assessed to sales tax, penalty etc., as under : — 

A. Taxation turnover determined Rs. 

B. (1) Tax assessed Rs. 

(2) Penalty imposed Rs 

Total B(l) and B(2) Rs 

Loss amount already paid Rs. 

Net amount due Rs. 

You are hereby directed to pay a sum of Rs 

(in figures) Rupees (in words) 


treasury 

into the ^ju^treasury 

Reserve Bank of India or 

State Bank of India 

at fplace) on or before (date) 

and furnish the recoipt in proof of payment to this office on or 

before (date) failing which 

the said sum will be recoverable from you as an aiTear (of land 
revenue. 

2. Tho chalan in form S. T. XV is enclosed for the purpose. 


Signature 

Assessing Authority, 


(Seal of Assessing Authority) 


Ward 


FORM S. T. XXII 

Summon to appear In person and/or to produce document* 

(See rule 44 of the Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 


To, 


(«) 

FORM S. T. XXJII 


Declaration 


(See rule 58 of tho Goa, Daman and Diu Sales Tax Rules, 
1964) 


In respect of goods being 


imp orted i nto the Territory 
exported out of th* Territory 


1. (a) Name and complete address 
of the consignoi 


(b) Registration number of 

the consignor 

2. (u) Name and complete address 

of the consignee 

(6) Registration number of 

the consignee 

3, Place from which goods dispatched 


4. Destination 


5. Description of goods 


6. Quantity/weight 

7. Value of goods 

8. Consignor's invoice No. & date 

9. Mode of transport 

10. Name and full address of the carrier 
(Transport Co., owner of the vohielo etc.) 

11. Railway Receipt/Bill of landing no 


I declare that 

to’Jthe best of my knowledge and belief, the above statements 
arc true and correct. 


Date 


(Signature of the consignor 
of his authorised agent) 


12. In the case of transport by road, following details should 
be furnished by the Transport Co. 


(a) Details of the vehicle 
with its number, if any 


( b ) Name and address of the 

driver of the vehicle 

(c) Name and full address of 

the person (if any) in 

charge of the foods 

I, being 

the declare that 

to the best of my knowledge and belief tho above statements 
are true and correct. 


Whereas your attendance is necessary to givo evidence 


Whereas the following documents are required 
with reference to an enquiry under the Goa, Daman and Diu 

(Sales Tax) Act, 1964, regarding the case concerning* 

~...s/o 

of now pending before me, you 

, , , . appear in person. 

arc hereby summoned tot— j — ^ „ — - 

'produce, or causo to(be produced, the 

- — — — — — —before me on the day 

said documents) 

of at (time) A.M/P.M. 

at (place) and not to depart 

until permitted by me. 

2. Failure, without’' lawful excuse, to appear and give evi- 
dence or cause to be produced tho documents as the case may 
be, is punishable under the provisions of Order XVI, Rule 12 
Civil Procedure^ Code, 1908. 

Given under my hand and seal, this 

day of 

Signature 

Assessing Authority 

(Seal of Assessing 

Authority) Ward 

Dated 


Note,— In case the summon is merely for production of a docu- 
ment, it will be proper compliance with it if the docu- 
ment is' sent per registered post, 

•Name, parentage and address of the person to whom 
the summon is issued. 

fThese words should be scored out where the summon 
is for the production of documents only. 


(Signature or thumb impression 
of the driver or the person 
in charge of goods). 

(Here enter the status off the person signing the declaration 
e.g., consignor person In charge of the goods being the agent 
of the consignee, driver of the vehicle, etc.) 


(To be completed in the Office of Check-Post) 

Name of the Check-Post , 

Date and time of arrival of the vehicle carrying tho goods at 

tho Check-Post 

Certified that 1 have checked the goods above mentioned. 

Officer-in-charge of the Check-Post 


(Signature) 

Note. — T o be filed in triplicate, 

(a) Here mention the words “originals” '‘duplicate” and ‘‘trip- 
licate." 


THIRD SCHEDULE 

(Rules for supply of copies of records under rule 62) 
Certified copies of 
documents and orders 

1. Any person who is a party to a proceeding under the 
Act or under these rules may apply to the appropriate autho- 
rity having jurisdiction in respect of such proceeding or hav- 
ing the custody of the records pertaining thereto, for a 
certified copy of a document produced or filed in such 
proceeding or of an order passed by such authority. 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 145 


2. A separate application shall be made for copies of 
any number of papers available in the record of each year 
and it shall be accompanied by an initial fee of fifty 
paise in Court-fee stamp. 

3. The clerk shall immediately, on receipt of an applica- 
tion make entries in the register maintained in Form S,T. 2 
and issue a receipt in token of having received the applica- 
tion, in Form S.T, 1. Thereafter the said clerk shall pass 
on the same application to the officer concerned latest by 
the next working day, and shall without undue delay obtain 
orders of the Assessing Authority or the notified authority, 
as the case may be, as to whether or not the copy is to be 
allowed, and if the copy is allowed, the clerk entrusted 
with the copying work shall obtain the record together with 
the application and without undue delay shall notify the 
required fee on the notice board of the office in case 
the application has been allowed or so notify the fact of 
rejection in case the application has been rejected. 

4. In case of application having been allowed, the appli- 
cant shall make good the deficiency in the court fee 
stamps required, within a period of 7 days after the date 
on which the fee is notified under rule 3, failing which the 
application shall be filed and the records returned to the 
office, The applicant shall file a fresh application for 
obtaining copies, 

5. After the requisite fee has been paid, copies shall be 
prepared by the copying clerk entrusted with the same 
work. 

6. Evepy' copy is ordinarily expected to be ready on the 
seventh working day after the fees have been paid. 

7. Every copy made under this rule shall be written in 
good legible hand or typed. 


1 1 , The examiner, before he attests any copy, shall — 

(a) personally compare such copy with the original 
from which it has been prepared with the assis- 
tance of the copying clerk, who made the copy; 

( b ) examine and initial the endorsement made upon 
the copy; 

(c) attest every alteration made in such copy by ini- 
tialling the same. 

12, When any copy is found to be correct in ail respects 
and ready for delivery to the applicant, the examiner shall 
endorse thereon “Certified to be true copy” and shall sign 
and date the endorsement. 

13, In the event of any copy being found to be unfit 
for issue by reason that it — 

(a) has not been legibly and neatly written or typed, 

(b) does not conform to these rules, or 

(c) is defective or otherwise open to objection, the 
examiner shall forthwith write the word “Cancel- 
led” across the copy; and a fresh copy shall be 
made without further charge. 

14, The affixing, by the examiner of his signature to a 
copy is a certificate that the copy has been personally com- 
pared by him and is suitable for delivery. 

15, The copying clerk shall ensure — 

fa) that no file is taken out of the copying room; 

(b) that all files are locked up in an almirah with the 
key in his possession, before leaving office; 

(c) that no member of the public is allowed access to 
the copying room except for presenting the appli- 
cations for supply of copies. 

16, After the copies are ready, the fact shall be imme- 
diately notified by the copying clerk on the notice board. 


8. To every copy made under these rules, shall be pre- 
fixed a heading containing short description of the record 
and the name of the dealer. In the copy of judgements 
or orders such heading shall also contain the following 
particulars ; — 

(a) name of the Assessing Authority or the Officer 
who passed (he order together with the ward to 
which the file pertains and the year of assess- 
ment, if any. In case of appeals and revisions 
the name and official designation of the officer, 
whose order was appealed "from, the date of that 
order, and 

(b) the name and address of the dealer. 

9. After the copy has been made and before it has been 
revised, and attested, the following particulars shall be 
endorsed thereon : — 

fa) Number of the application in register maintained 
in Form S.T.2. 

(b) Date of presentation of the application, 

(c) Name of the copying clerk, 

fd) Date on which the copy was completed, 

fe) Cost of the copy, 

(f) Date of delivery. 

10. No copy shall be delivered to any person until it 
has been examined, certified and stamped. The examiner 
shall see that the provisions of law and of these rules have 
been complied with in all respects. 


17. If an applicant fails to take delivery of the copy for 
full four months from the last date of the month in which 
the copy was notified to be ready for deliverv, it shall be 
filed. 


18. An applicant for an urgent copy shall be entitled to 
have his copy furnished to him, if ^possible, by the 3rd 
working day after the fees have been paid. 

19. Urgent applications shall have as far as possible 
priority among themselves according to the date and serial 
No. of each application. 


20. The examiner shall keep movement of each file in a 
register maintained in Form S.T. 3. 


21. Applications for copies shall be kept by the copying 
clerk for 3 years or till such time as the stamp auditor has 
audited the necessary accounts. 


Form S. T. 1 . 

Receipt No 

Received on this date from,, 


an application dated 

for copies with court fee stamps 

worth Rs 

affixed to it., which has been 


Form S. T, I, 

Receipt No 

Received on this date from . . 


an application dated 

for copies with court fee 

stamp (s) worth Rs 

affixed to it, which has been 


entered at serial No lontcred at sorall No 

in register S. T. 2. liri register S. T. 2. 


Office of. 
Date 


Office of... 
Date 


Signature of 9 Signature of 

recipient.,, I recipient 


-a 

Q 

1 


SI. 

No. 


1 


s- d 

o O 

6 a 

Z-l 

■ Cu 

zn 

< 


FORM S. T. 2 

Register of applicants for copies and fees realfsed 


.c 

”TJ t - 1 

ri O 
e t/i.a 

E 8p 

±1 Cq 


n z. 

-C 

1 
r- J 

a 

« >> 
to y 

*“ S 3 

; O ft 

^ 81 
o K 

z 

=* s 

.SR 

§§£ 
o ^ 

z 

o 

'(X 

n 

u 



8 


I 


Language 

Copying fee 

Urgent fee 

73 

> “ 
1: 

'ate on which 
he copy was 
ready 

The date of 
; livery of the 

opy 

tials of Copy- 
ing Clerk 



U, 



s 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 

16 


FORM S. T. 3 

Movement register of flies to and from Copying Clerk 


Namo of the dealer 

SI. No. of the 
application 
in respect 
of which 
the file 
was requi- 
sitioned 

Date of 
receipt 
of tho file 

From which 
office 
received 

Date when 
the file was 
returned 

Signature 
of the 
Recipient 

Remarks 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 



146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III— Sec. 3 


Law Department 

Panjim , 8 th April 1964 

The following Act passed by the Legislative Assembly 
of Goa, Daman and Diu, received the assent of the Presi- 
dent of India on the 7th April 1964 and is published for 
general information. 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU ENTERTAINMENT 
TAX ACT, 1964 

(No. 2 of 1964) 

An Act to consolidate and amend the law for imposing 
a tax in respect of admission to entertainments in the Union 
Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu and for certain matters 
connected therewith. 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, Dama 
and Diu in the Fifteenth Year of the Republic of India as 
follows : 

1. Short title, extent and commencement. — (1) This 
Act may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu Entertain- 
ment Tax Act, 1964. 

(2) It extends to the whole of the Union Territory of 
Goa, Daman and Diu. 

(3) It shall come into force on the 1st day of April 
1964. 

2. Definitions. — In this Act, unless there is anything 
repugnant in the subject or context- 

fa) “admission to any entertainment” includes admis- 
sion to any place in which the entertainment is 
held; 

(h) “Commissioner” meuns a person appointed by 
Government as Commissioner for the purpose of 
this Act; 

(c) “complimentary ticket” means a ticket or pass 
for admission to any entertainment free of any 
payment or at a reduced rate of payment for such 
admission; 

(d) “entertainment” includes any exhibition, per- 
formance, amusemennt, game or sport to which 
persons are admitted for payment; 

(e) “Government” means the Government of the 
Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu; 

(f) “payment for admission” includes — 

( i ) any payment for seats or other accommo- 
dation in a place of entertainment, 

(ii) any payment made for the loan or use of 
any instrument or contrivance which enables 
a person to get a normal or better view 
or hearing of the entertainment which, with- 
out the aid of such instrument or contri- 
vance such person would not get; and 

(iii ) any payment for any purpose whatsoever 
connected with an entertainment, or for a 
programme of synopsis thereof which a 
person is required to make as a condition 
of attending or continuing to attend the 
entertainment in addition to the payment, if 
any, for admission to the entertainment, 

(iv) any payment made by a person who, having 
been admitted to one part of a place of 
entertainment, is subsequently admitted to 
another part thereof for admission to which 
a payment involving tax or more tax is 
required; 

(g) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made 
under this Act; 

(h) “proprietor” in relation to any entertainment 
includes any person responsible for, or for the 
time being in charge of, the management there- 
of. 

3. Levy of Tax, — -(1) (a) There shall be levied and paid 
to the Government on all payments for admission to any 
entertainment, other than a game or sport, a tax (herein- 
after referred to as entertainment tax) at the following 
rates, namely : — 

(i) on payments for admission not exceeding 100 
nayc pais© — nil, 


(ii) on payments for admission exceeding 100 naye 
paise, but not exceeding 200 naye paise — 25% 
of the total amounf paid. 

(iii) on payments for admission exceeding 200 naye 
paise — 30% of the total amount paid. 

(b) Where the entertainment is derived from a game or 
sport, entertainment tax shall be paid as aforesaid at the 
following rates, namely : — 

(i) on payments for admission not exceeding 100 
naye paise — nil. 

(ii) on payments for admission exceeding 100 naye 
paise, but not exceeding 200 naye paise — 10% 
of the total amount paid. 

(iii) on payments for admission exceeding 200 naye 
paise — 15% of the total amount paid. 

(2) Tn computing the tax payable under sub-section (1), 
the tax leviable shall be computed with reference to each 
single person admitted and shall, wherever, necessary, be 
rounded off to the nearest naye paisa, fractions of half-a- 
naya paisa and over being counted as one, and less than 
half-a-naya paisa being disregarded. 

(3) Where the payment for admission to any entertain- 
ment is made by means of a lump sum paid as a subscrip- 
tion or contribution to any society, or for a season ticket 
or for the right of admission to a series of entertainments 
or to any entertainment during a certain period of time, 
or for any privilege, right, facility or thing combined with 
the right of admission to any entertainment or involving 
such right of admission without further payment or at a 
reduced charge, the entertainment tax shall be paid on the 
amount of the lump sum; but where the Commissioner is of 
opinion that the payment of a lump sum or any payment 
for a ticket represents payment for other privileges, rights 
or purposes besides the admission to an entertainment, or 
covers admission to an entertainment during any period 
for which the tax has not been in operation, the tax shall 
be charged on such amount as appears to the Commis- 
sioner to represent the right of admission to entertainment 
in respect of which the entertainment tax is payable. 

(4) There shall be levied and paid to the Government 
on every complimentary ticket issued by the proprietor the 
entertainment tax at the appropriate rate prescribed under 
sub-section (1), as if full payment had been made for ad- 
mission to the entertainment according to the class of set or 
accommodation which the holder of such ticket is entitled to 
occupy or use and the holder of such ticket shall be deem- 
ed to have been admitted for payment for the purpose of 
this Act. 

4. Mode of levy,— { 1) Save as otherwise provided by 
this Act, no person other than a person who has to per- 
form some duty in connection with an entertainment or a 
duty imposed upon him by any law, shall be admitted to 
any entertainment, except with a ticket stamped with an 
impressed, embossed, engraved or adhesive stamp (not 
used before) issued by the Government for the purposes 
of revenue and denoting that the proper entertainment tax 
has been paid. „ 

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section 
(1), the Government may, on the application of a proprie- 
tor of any entertainment in respect of which entertainment 
tax is payable under section 3, allowed the proprietor on 
such conditions as may be prescribed, to make payment of 
the tax due — 

(a) by a consolidated payment of a percentage, to 
he fixed by the Government, of the gross sum 
received by the proprietor on account of payment 
for admission to the entertainment and on account 
of the tax; 

(b) on the basis of the returns of payments for admis- 
sion to the entertainment and on account of the 
tax; 

(c) in accordance with the results recorded by any 
mechanical contrivance which automatically 
registers the number of persons admitted. 

5. Exemptions. — ■( 1 ) Entertainment tax shall not be 
levied on payments for admission to any entertainment 
where the Commissioner is satisfied that, 

(a) the whole of the fakines thereof are devoted to 
philanthropic or charitable purposes; or 

(b) the entertainment is of an educational or scienti- 
fic character; or 

(c) the entertainment is provided by a drama or other 
. theatrical performance. 



Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


(2 ) 1'he Government may exempt from entertainment 
tax any ticket or complimentary ticket issued to a person 
in unnorm serving in tile defence lorce.j of India, subject 
to sued conditions as may be prescribed. 

(3 ) The Government may, by genera! or special older 
exempt any entertainment or class ot entertainments from 
liability to entertainment tax in whole or in part. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of sub-section (lj the 
takings of an entertainment shall not be deemed to be 
devoted to philanthropic or charitable purposes if such 
takings arc to be devoted to the benefit of any particular 
religious purpose or any particular caste or community 
other than any class ot citizens declared by the Govern- 
ment as socially or educationally backward. 

6. Power to inspect. — (1 J lhe Commissioner or any 
Officer of Government duty authorised in writing by him 
in this behalf, may enter any place ot entertainment while 
the entertainment is proceeding, aud any place ordinarily 
used as a place of entertainment, at any reasonable lime 
with a view to inspect whether the provisions of this Act 
or the rules made thereunder are bemg complied with. 

(2) The proprietor of every entertainment and the 
owner or person in charge of any place which is ordinarily 
used as a place of entertainment shall give every reason- 
able assistance to the inspecting officer in the pertormance 
of his duties under sub-section (1 j . 

(3) If any person prevents or obstructs the entry of the 
inspecting officer, he shall, in addition to any other punish- 
ment to which he may be liable under any law for the time 
being in force, be punished with line which may extend to 
five hundred rupees on conviction before a Magistrate. 

7. Recoveries. — (1 J Any sum due on account of enter- 
tainment tax shall be recoverable as an arrear of land 
revenue under the law for the time being in force. 

8. Penalty. — (1) If any person is admitted to any place 
of entertainment and the provisions of section 4 are not 
complied with, the proprietor of the entertainment to which 
such person is admitted shall, on conviction before a 
Magistrate, be liable, in respecl of each offence, to a fine 
which may extend to rupees five hundred and shall also be 
liable to pay any tax which should have been paid. 

(2) Any person who contravenes any of the provisions 
of this Act tor which no other punishment has been pro- 
vided for in this Act, shall, on conviction before a Magis- 
trate, be liable to a fine which may extend to five hundred 
rupees. 

9. Compounding of offences.— The Commissioner or any 
other officer duly authorised by hint in this behalf may 
recover from any person who has committed or is reason- 
ably suspected of having committed an offence against this 
Act or the rules made thereunder, by way of composition 
of such offence — 

(a) where the offence consists of the failure to pay, 
or the evasion of, any tax payable under this 
Act, in addition to the tax so payable, a sum 
of money not exceeding two hundred rupees or 
double the amount of the tax payable, whichever 
is greater; and 

(b) in other cases, a sum of money not exceeding 
two hundred rupees. 

10. Delegation of powers. — ( l ) The Government may, 
by notification in the Official Gazette, delegate to the 
Commissioner or to any other officer all or any of its powers 
under this Act. 

(2) The Commissioner may, with the approval of the 
Government, delegate to any officer subordinate to him, 
any of his powers under this Act other than powers dele- 
gated to him by the Government. 

11. Protection of action and bar of limitation. — (1) No 
suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against 
any officer or employee of Ihc Government for anything 
done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any 
rule or order made thereunder. 

(2) No suit, prosecution or olher legal proceeding shall 
be instituted against the Government or against any officer 
or employee of the Government after six months from the 
date of the commission of the act complained of. 

12. Cognizable Offence. — Notwithstanding anything con- 
tained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, hut sub- 
ject to the other provisions of this Act, — 

(1) an ofTeuce under this Act shall be a cognizahlc 
offence under the said Code; and 

(2) only Magistrates of the First Class shall have 
jurisdiction to try any such offence. 


13. Prohibition of levy by local authorities.— (1) Not- 
withstanding anything contained in any law relating to a 
municipality, local board, village panchayat or other local 
authority, no municipality, local board, village panchayat 
or other local authority shall levy any tax on entertain- 
ment in respect of which entertainment lax is leviable under 
this Act. 

(2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall affect 
the levy by any local authority referred to therein, of a 
tax at a flat rate per cinema show or performance on 
cinema shows or performances in accordance with the law 
enabling the imposition of such a tax. 

14. Power to make rules.— (1) The Government may 
by notification in the Official Gazette make rules generally 
to carry out the purposes of this Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing power, such rules may provide tor, — 

(a) securing the payment of entertainment tax; 

(b) the supply accounting and use of stamps or 
stamped tickets, for the stamping of tickets and 
for securing the defacement of stamps when 
used; 

(c) the renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps and 
for the procedure to be followed on applications 
for refund on such stamps; 

(j) the use of tickets covering the admission of more 
than one person and the calculation of tax there- 
on; 

je) the calculation of the tax on the transfer of seat 
or accommodation front one part of a place of 
entertainment to another and on payment for 
seats or other accommodation; 

(f) controlling the use of mechanical contrivances 
(including the prevention of its misuse); 

(g) the checking of admissions, the keeping of 
accounts and the furnishing of returns by the 
proprietors of entertainments in respect of which 
the tax due is payable in accordance with the 
provisions of section 4, sub-section (2); 

(h) requiring proprietors referred to in clause (g) 
to furnish security for payment of tax and pres- 
cribing conditions for forfeiture of such security; 

(i) the presentation and disposal of applications for 
exemption from payment of the entertainment 
tax or for the refund thereof; and 

(j) the exemption from entertainment tax or from 
aDy part thereof in respect of soldiers, sailors or 
other defence forces in uniform; 

(k) the issue of passes by a proprietor of a place of 
entertainment for the admission to the place of 
entertainment, of persons who have to perform 
any duty in connection with the entertainment or 
any other duty imposed upon them by law; 

(i) any olher matter which are required to be pres- 
cribed by this Act. 

(3) If any person acts in contravention of, or fails to 
comply with any such rules, he shall, on conviction by a 
Magistrate be liable to fine which may extend to five 
hundred rupees, 

(4) Such rules shall be placed on the table of the 
Legislative Assembly, Goa, Daman and Diu for a period 
of 14 days and .shall be subject to such modifications as 
may be made therein by the Assembly and shall thereupon 
be published in the Official Gazette, 

15. Repeal and Savings. — (1 ) On the commencement of 
this Act, any law in force in the Union Territory of Goa, 
Daman and Diu, authorising the levy of a stamp duty on 
tickets of admission to any entertainment and any other 
law corresponding to this Act shall stand repealed. 

(2) The provisions of section 6 of the General Clauses 
Act, 1897 shall apply to such repeal as if such law is an 
enactment and this Act is a re-enactmcnt thereof. 

16. Power to remove difficulties. — If any difficulty arises 
in giving effect to the provisions of this Act the Govern- 
ment may, by order, as occasion requires, do anything (not 
inconsistent with this Act) which appears to it to be 
necessary for removing the difficulty, 

S. BALAKRISHNAN 
Law Secretary 



148 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Tart III— Sec. 3 


Finance Department 

Panjirn, the 11th September 1965 

No. FS/F.1JI/2-41/ 774/ 64/ b5 — in exercise of the 
powers conferred Dy section 14(1) of the Goa, Daman and 
Dm Entertainment lax Act, 1904, the Government hereby 
makes the following rules. 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND Dili ENTERTAINMEN T 
TAX RULES, 1965 

PRELIMINARY 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Goa, 
Daman and Dm Entertainment lax Rules, iy65. 

2. Definitions.-— -In these rules— 

(i) (Act) means the Goa, Daman and Diu Enter- 
tainment Tax Act, 1964. 

(it) (Prescribed Officer) means the person or autho- 
rity to whom any powers are delegated under 
section (10) of the Act. 

(tii) (Stamp) means an Entertainment Duty Stamp 
issued oy the Government of Goa, Daman and 
Dtu under sub-section (1) of section (4) of the 
Act. 

(iv) (Section) means section of the Act. 

Payment of tax by stamps 

3. Supply of .stamps and keeping of accounts.- — The rules 
regarding the supply and keeping of accounts of non- 
judlcial and Court fee stamps in respect of this Union Terri- 
tory of Goa, Daman and Diu shall apply mutatts mutandis 
to the supply and keeping of accounts of the entertainment 
stamps. 

4. Purchase of stamps. — No person shall purchase any 
stamp required for the purposes of the Act except from 
the prescribed officer ; 

Provided that — 

(i) nothing in this rule shall apply to any person 
purchasing such a stamp affixed to a ticket for 
the purpose of admission to an entertainment, 
and 

(ii) where the proprietor of an entertainment changes 
hands, it shall be lawful for the new proprietor, 
after giving due notice to the prescribed officer 
to purchase from the former proprietor the stock 
of unused stamp in the latter’s possession. 

5. Issue of stamps. — No stamp issued for the purposes of 
this Act shall be issued to any person by or on behalf of the 
proprietor of any entertainment otherwise than securely 
affixed to a ticket issued for the purpose of authorising 
admission to an entertainment. 

6. Refund of value of unused stamps. — The proprietor 
of an entertainment on an application made to the Com- 
missioner within three months from the date of purchase 
of stamps, may claim refund of the value of the unused 
stamps tendered with the application, subject to a deduction 
of six naye paise for each rupee or portion of a rupee of 
such value. 

7. Renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps. — Where any 
stamps purchased for use under the Act have been damaged 
or spoiled, the purchaser may apply in writing to the Com- 
missioner who on being satisfied that they have not been 
wilfully damaged or spoiled may give in lieu thereof— 

(a) other stamps of the same denomination and value, 
or 

(b) stamps of any other denomination to the same 
value, or 

(c) at his discretion, the same value in money, deduc- 
ting six naye paise, for each rupee or fraction of 
a rupee of such value. 

8. Procedure for the refund of value of unused stamps 
or renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps. — -(1) An appli- 
cation for refund under Rule 6 or for renewal under 
Rule 7 shall be chargeable with a Court fee of Rs. 1.25. 

(2) Applications for grant of refund or renewal of 
stamps shall be made personally or through an agent 
appointed by a duly attested powcr-of-attorncy to the Com- 
missioner and shall furnish the following information : — 

(a) Full name, surname (if any) and residence of 
applicant; and the name of the firm, if any, on 
whose behalf application is made. 

(b) Description and the number of stamps with res- 
pective value, 

(c) Total value of the stamps. 


(d) Date of purchase of stamps. 

(e) The place and the authority from whom the 
stamps were purchased. 

(f) Manner in which the stamps were spoiled or 
rendered unfit lor use. 

(g) Whether the application is for refund or renewal. 

(h) Date of application. 

( 3 ) After the receipt of the application the clerk con- 
cerned shall examine the same in order to see that — 

(a) It contains the requisite information. 

(b) The stamps tendered are genuine. 

After carefully examining the grounds of the application 
and all relevant papers, the crerk shall record a note 
whether he considers Ihe claim to be admissible or not 
and shall submit the same to the officer concerned who alter 
the necessary check will submit the same with his report 
to the Commissioner for his decision. 

A proper register shall be maintained in the office of 
the Commissioner in respect of refund of value of unused 
stamps aud renewal of damaged or spoiled stamps, in 
Form (1). 

9. Price of admission, date and show to be shown on, 
and stump affixed to, ticket . — Except as provided in rules 
17 and 26, every ticket issued on payment for admission 
to entertainment shall consist of three parts. One part 
shall remain on the ticket book and the remaining two 
parts shall be detached therefrom and issued lo the pur- 
chaser. 

Each part of the ticket shall be clearly marked with: — 

(a) the price of admission, the slump duty if leviable 
thereon, and the total amount recoverable from 
the purchaser. 

(b) the date and show for which it is available. 

(c) the book number and the serial number of the 
ticket. 

The taxable ticket shall also have a stamp of the value 
of the tax payable securely affixed to it in the manner 
provided in rule 13. 

10. Plural tickets. — (1) Every taxable ticket, not being 
a complimentary ticket, issued for the purpose of admitting 
more than one person to an entertainment shall have 
clearly shown thereon the number of persons to be admit- 
ted and the date and show for which it is available and 
shall have affixed to it a stamp or stamps equal in value 
to the total lax that would have been payable on tickets 
for admitting each such person separately. 

(2) The slump or stamps to be affixed to a ticket entitling 
Ihe purchaser to the exclusive use of a box or similar 
accommodation shall be of the value of the tax that would 
be payable upon a ticket of the same price admitting one 
person to the entertainment. 

11. Transfer of Seat. — When the purchaser of any ticket 
admitting him to one part of an entertainment wishes to 
transfer to another part of the entertainment for which the 
price of admission is higher and taxable, the proprietor 
shall issue him a second ticket stamped with a stamp of 
the value of the difference between the tax leviable on the 
second ticket and that leviable on the first. In case no 
tax was levied on the first ticket on account of the price 
of admission of the same ticket being not subject to tax, 
it will be calculated on the total amount of the price of 
admission recovered from the purchaser of both the tickets 
and the same tax will be paid by affixing on the second 
ticket the stamps corresponding to the full value of tax 
due. Die purchaser shall retain the portion of the first 
ticket returned to him under sub-rule 2 of rule 13. 

12. Season tickets. — Every season ticket, or ticket avail- 
able for more than one entertainment, shall have marked 
thereon the name of the purchaser and the period for 
which it is available and the stamp to be affixed to such 
ticket shall be of the value of the tax that would be pay- 
able upon a ticket of the same price admitting the pur- 
chaser to one entertainment. 

13. Defacement and destruction of stamps and disposal 
of pat ts of ticket. — ( 1 ) The two parts of the ticket detach- 
ed under rule 9 shall be so detached that the stamp is 
defaced thereby in such a way that the portion of the 
stamp which bears the words (Goa, Daman and Diu) 
shal remain on the ticket book, and the remaining por- 
tion of the stamp shall remain on one of the parts of the 
ticket issued to the purchaser. 

(2) On admission of the purchaser or holder of a 
ticket, the proprietor shall cause one part of the ticket, 
issued for admission to the entertainment (not being a 



149 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDTA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


season ticket or a ticket available for more than one 
entertainment), to be collected, and the other part hearing 
one half of the stamp to be returned to the purchaser. 

(3 ) The purchaser or holder of a ticket shall retain his 
part of the ticket until he leaves the place of entertainment 
and the proprietor shall retain the other part until 3 p.m., 
of the day following the day of the entertainment, 

(4) The proprietor shall submit tbc counterfoils with 
the portion of tne stamp bearing the words “Goa, Daman 
and Din" within ten days after the date of the entertain- 
ment along with the returns to be submitted under rule 15, 
in the office of the prescribed officer for checking and 
destruction by that officer thereafter. 

14. Torn, etc. stamps — Save as otherwise provided in 
these rules, no ticket bearing a stamp that has been torn, 
defaced or otherwise marked or mutilated shall be issued 
by the proprietor of an entertainment; and the proprietor 
shall, within ten days after the date of the entertainment, 
submit all such tickets along with counterfoils, submitted 
under sub-rule (4) of rule 13 to the prescribed officer. 

15. Return of stamps. — Every proprietor of an entertain- 
ment shall, within ten days of the date of an entenainment, 
submit to the prescribed officer a return in Form “A" show- 
ing the number of stamps purchased and issued by him.. 

Payment of tax otherwjsf. than by Stamp 

16. Security. — (1 ) Every proprietor allowed to avail him- 
self of the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 4 of 
the Act shah furnish such security to the prescribed officer 
as that officer may require. 

(2) If a proprietor fails to submit any returns as requir- 
ed by rule 18 or rule 24 or to pay within ten days after 
the date of the entertainment, or such extended period not 
exceeding one month as the prescribed officer may allow, 
the entertainment tax under rule 21, the prescribed officer 
may, after giving the proprietor a week’s notice, direct that 
the security shall be forfeited to the Government : 

Provided that nothing in this rule shall affect the liabi- 
lity of the proprietor for the payment of the full entertain- 
ment tax. 

(3 ) The proprietor may, wilhin fifteen days of the date 
of the order of the prescribed officer forfeiting his security 
under this rule, appeal to the Commissioner concerned.. 

17. Unstamped tickets issued under section 4(2(tf) and 
(b). — (1) Every ticket, not being a complimentary ticket, 
issued by a proprietor who has been allowed to pay the tax 
under the provisions of clause (a) or clause (b) of sub- 
section (2) of section 4, shall consist of three parts. One 
part shall remain on tho ticket book and the remaining 
two parts shall he detached therefrom and issued to the 
purchaser; and shall bear on each part of such ticket the 
price of admission, the amount of tax payable if any, and 
the total amount recoverable from the purchaser, the book 
number and the serial number of the ticket, the date on 
which and the show for which it is issued. 

(2) On udmission of the holder of the ticket the pro- 
prietor shall cause to be collected one of the two parts of 
the ticket and the other part to be returned to him. 

(3) The holder of the ticket shall retain his part (ill he 
leaves the place of entertainment and the part retained by 
the proprietor shall be relained by him till the entertain- 
ment is over. 

18. Returns required under section 4(2) (a) and ( b ) . — 
Every proprietor making a consolidated payment under 
clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 4 or making 
payment in accordance with return of (he payments for 
admission under clause (b) of the said sub-section (2) 
of section 4, shall, within ten days of the date of enter- 
tainment, submit to the prescribed officer in his office 
a return in Form ‘B’ showing the number of tickets (not 
being complimentary tickets) issued at oach rate, the 
serial number of tickets issued, the gross amount received 
from the sale of tickets, and the amount of tax payable 
to the Government. He shall, if so required by the 
prescribed officer, also submit to the said officer, within 
ten days of the date of entertainment, a return in Form 
‘C’ showing the price of programme or synopsis including 
tax, the number of programmes or synopsis issued, the 
gross amount received from the sale thereof and the 
amount of tax payable to the Government. 

19. Return required under section 4(2) (r), — When a 
proprietor is permitted to avail himself of the provisions 
of claitse (c) of sub-section (2) of section 4, be shall 
submit to the prescribed officer, within ten days of the 
date of entertainment, a return in Form ‘D' showing ihe 
number of persons admitted through the mechanical con- 
trivance, the gross amount paid for admission by such 
persons and the amount of tax payable to the Government, 
L328GI/65 


20. Admission by mechanical contrivance, notice . — 
Subject to the provisions of sub-scction (1) of section 4, 
no person shall in any circumstances be admitled through 
a mechanical contrivance save on payment of the price 
of admission. Such price shall be shown in a conspicuous 
position on or near the mechanical contrivance. 

21. Payments under seotion 4(2).— All payments made 
in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of 
section 4 of the Act, shall be made to the prescribed offi- 
cer within ten days of the date of the entertainment at 
such time and place and in such manner as he shall 
require. 

22. Payment of tax on programmes or synopsis. — Where 
payment for a programme or synopsis is compulsory, the 
tax shall be levied on the total sum paid for admission to 
the entertainment including the sum paid for the pro- 
gramme or synopsis. Where payment for a programme 
or synopsis is voluntary, the tax shall be levied separately 
on the sum paid for admission and on the sum paid for 
the programme or synopsis. 

Miscellaneous 

23. Provision as to persons admitted to the entertain- 
ment.— Every proprietor of an entertainment admitting a 
person free of payment or on payment of a reduced sum 
shall issue to such person a ticket showing clearly there- 
on tiie full charge for admission to the class to which 
the person is admitted. The tax shall be paid on such 
ticket in the same manner as if it were a ticlcet issued on 
payment of the full charge and the person admitted shall 
for the purposps of these rules be deemed -to be the 
purchaser of the ticket. 

Provided that when a child not exceeding five years 
in age is admitled free of payment, he shall be exempted 
from the payment of the tax. 

24. Returns of complimentary tickets. — Every proprie- 
tor who is allowed to avail himself of the provisions of 
sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act and who issues 
complimentary tickets shall submit to the prescribed offi- 
cer m his office, within ten days of the date of the per- 
formance of the entertainment, a return of such tickets 
in Form “E” showing the rate of each class, the number 
of complimentary tickets issued for each class, the serial 
numbers of tickets issued and the amount of tax- payable 
to the Government. 

25. Exemptions under section 5(1), — Any person 
claiming exemption, under sub-section ( I ) of section 5 
from payment of the entertainment tax shall present an 
application for such exemption to the Commissioner ten 
clear days before the date of the entertainment. An 
application for exemption not presented before such 
period may, unless sufficient cause is shown for not 
making the application before ten days as aforesaid, be 
rejected. 

26. Form of exemption under section 5(1),— Where 
exemption is given under clause (a), (b) or (c) of sub- 
section (1) of section 5 the Commissioner shall issue to 
the proprietor of the entertainment a certificate in Form 
“F” or, as the case may Ire, in Form “G” and the pro- 
prietor shall comply with the conditions stated therein. 

27. Classes of cinema films qualified for exemption 
under section 5(3). — A cinema film which has been 
awarded the President’s Gold Medal, or which the Gov- 
ernment on a recommendation made by the Advisory 
Committee appointed by the Government for the purpose, 
considers as fulfilling an educational or social purpose of 
a high order, shall be qualified for exemption under sec- 
tion 5(3). 

28. Applications for exemption under section 5(3). — 
All applications for exemption under sub-section (3) of 
section 5 of the Act shall be made to the Government 
and entered in the office of the Commissioner not later 
than ten days before the date of the entertainment. An 
application for exemption not presented before such 
period may, unless sufficient cause shown for not making 
ihe application before ten days as aforesaid, be rejected. 

29. Indian soldiers ( including airmen) and sailors in 
uniform. — (1) In the case of entertainments given by 
naval, military and air forces and other armed forces of 
the Union, the price of tickets sold to the Indian soldiers 
(including airmen) and sailors in uniform shall be the 
price of admission only, exclusive of tax. 

(2), Such tickets shall be special unstamped tickets 
marked with the price of admission only and shall be 
issued through a sendee authority not below the rank of 
a commissioned officer and the proprietor shall submit 
to the prescribed officer a weekly return of such tickets 
in Form "H”. 



150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (RARTlKA 22 , 1887) [Part ill— S ec. 3 


(3) Where a mechanical contrivance under clause (c) 
of sub-section (2) of section 4 is used, soldiers (includ- 
ing airmen) and sailors shall be admitted by another 
entrance. 

30. Exemption under section 5(2) of the Act . — (1) 
Soldiers, sailors and other members or the Defence Forces 
of India in uniform shall be exempted from entertainment 
tax : 

(a) when they visit a military cinema, — full exemp- 
tion; 

(b) when they visit any other cinema — 

(i) full exemption, where the payment for 
admission thereto does not exceed Rs. 2/-. 
(ii) exemption to the extent of 50 per cent of 
the entertainment tax, where the payment 
for admission exceeds Rs. 2 /-, 

(2) Tickets issued to the members of the Defence 
Forces of India in uniform, in the case of a cinema 
referred to in clause (b) of sub-rulo (1) shall be special 
tickets in three parts and shall have shown upon each 
part of the price of admission, the amount of tax pay- 
able, if any, and the total amount recoverable from the 
purchaser. 

(3) Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2), the pro- 
visions of rules 9 and 17 shall, so far as may be, apply 
to tickets issued under this rule. 

Explanation. — A military cinema means a cinema which 
has been opened by the military or by military contractors 
or other persons at the request of the military for the 
use of the Defence Forces of India. 

31. Stamped complimentary tickets. — Every compli- 
mentary ticket issued by a proprietor of an entertainment, 
paying the amount of tax due, in the manner specified in 
sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act, shall have shown 
thereon the price of admission which corresponds to the 
class to which the holder is to be admitted, the date and 
show for which it is available and shall have securely 
affixed to it a stamp of the value of the tax payable under 
section 3 and the provisions of rules 9 and 13 shall, as 
far as may be, apply to such tickets. 

32. Unstamped complimentary tickets. — Every compli- 
mentary- ticket issued by a proprietor of an entertainment, 
who has been permitted to avail himself of the provisions 
of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act, shall have 
shown thereon the Book No. and Serial No. of the ticket, 
the price of admission which corresponds to the class to 
which the holder is to he admitted, the tax payable under 
section 3 and the date and show for which the ticket is 
available and the provision of rule 17 shall, as far as may 
be, apply to such tickets. 

33. Admission against complimentary tickets. — Not 
more than one person shall be admitted against each com- 
plimentary ticket issued by a proprietor of an entertain- 
ment. 

34. Production of tickets. — A person who has been 
admitted to an entertainment shall, upon demand made 
during the course of, or immediately before or after, the 
entertainment, produce to any officer authorised under 


section 10 of the Act the ticket, badge, card of member- 
ship, voucher or documents by means of which he was 
admitted, or a portion ol the Ucket by means of which he 
was admitted, or the cover of the book or the principal 
part of the sheet from which the ticket, by means of which 
be was admitted, was taken. 

35. Transfer to different parts of place of entertain- 
ment. — Any reference in these rules to admission to a 
place of entertainment or to a person admitted to a place 
of entertainment shall, so far as may be, be deemed to 
include a reference to the admission to another part of 
the place of entertainment for admission to which part a 
payment involving tax or more tax is required of a person 
who has been admitted to one part of that place of 
entertainment and to such a person admitted to such 
another part of the place of entertainment and these rules 
shall have effect accordingly. 

36. Power to enter place of entertainment. — (1) The 
Commissioner, or the prescribed officer and any other 
officer duly authorised by the Commissioner or by the 
prescribed officer, in this behalf, may enter any place of 
entertainment while the entertainment is proceeding and 
any place ordinarily used as a place of entertainment, at 
any reasonable time, with a view to see whether the pro- 
visions of the Act or these rules are being complied with. 
Every such officer authorised by the Commissioner or by 
the prescribed officer shall have in his possession a permit 
signed by the Commissioner or the prescribed officer 
authorising him in tins behalf. 

(2) An Entertainment Tax Officer not below the rank 
of Tax Inspector will be authorised to lodge complaint to 
the Court for any irregularity noticed in any place of 
entertainment, 

37. Inspection of books, issue of passes, etc. — The 
Commissioner or the prescribed officer may require the 
proprietor of an entertainment to produce for inspection 
all his books and records and all tickets or portion of 
tickets in his possession relating to the entertainment and 
to issue passes in favour of persons who have to perform 
any duty in connection with the entertainment or any 
other duty imposed upon them by law whenever an 
occasion arises. 

38. Communication of the date of entertainment. — The 
proprietor of any entertainment for which admission is to 
bo made on payment, shall intimate to the prescribed 
officer at least one day before the date marked for its 
performance the name and nature of tho entertainment, 
the place where, and the date and time when, the same 
entertainment is to lake place. For this purpose the 
proprietor shall file the necessary declaration in the office 
of the prescribed officer. 

The declaration above referred may be dispensed with, 
in respect of entertainment which are ordinarily performed 
in a fixed place. 

By order and in the name of the Administrator of Goa, 
Daman and Din. 

V. S. SRINIVASAGOPALAN 

Deputy Secretary ( Finance ) 


FORM (A) 

(See rule 15) 

Name of proprietor : Return of stamps of an entertainment 


Denomina- 


Date of 



Number used 

Number used Total 


Serial 


Opening 

purchase 

Number 

Total 

on tickets 

on compli- 

No. 

Closing 

Number of 


tion of 
stamps 

balance 

of fresh 
stamps 

purchased 

No. 

2 and 
No. 4 

other than 
complimen- 
tary tickets 

mentary 

tickets 

6 and 
No. 7 

balance 
(5 minus 8) 

tickets sold 

From To 

Remarks 

1 

2 


4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 11 

12 


Date . . 


Signature of the Proprietor,. 


FORM (B) 

(See rule 18) 

Statement of tickets not being complimentary tickets issued when duty is payable under clause (a) or (b) of sub-section (2) of section 4 


Name and place of entertainment; . . 



Date of performance: . . 

Number of tickets 

Serial number of 


Amount of tax 


Number and time Price of tickets issued subject to 
of show including duty tax 

tickets issued 

C~- 

From To 

Gross receipts 

payable to 
Government 

Remarks 



Rs. 

Rs. 


Date. . 



Signature of the Proprietor , , 


151 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


FORM *C* 

(See rule 18) 

Statement of programmes of synopsis Issued when tax is payable 
under caluse (a) or (b) of sub-section (2) of section 4 


This certificate is issued on the following conditions : — 

(1) The whole of the takings of the entertainment 
without any deduction for expenses, however, small, is 
to be paid over to. . . 


Name and place of entertainment : . . . . 

Date of performance: 


| Price of pro- Number issued of Gross 

Bja gramme or programmes or synopsis receipts 
tc synopsis in- subject to tax the 
•jg o eluding tax purchase whereof is 

3 S — — — — 

% -3 Compulsory Voluntary 


-S 

lao 

0^0 


$ 

I 


Rs. Rs. 


(2) If the Commissioner of Entertainments so requires, 
a full and true account of the whole of the takings, to- 
gether with a written acknowledgement from the Society, 
Institution or Fund specified under condition (1) is fur- 
nished to them by the persons responsible for the manage- 
ment of the entertainment, within one month after the 
date of the entertainment, and those persons will be 
liable for the payment of the proper tax if the Commis- 
sioner of Entertainments is not satisfied that the whole 
of the takings, without any deduction for expenses, have 
in fact been paid over to the Society, Institution or Fund 
referred to. 


Date — Signature of the Proprietor: 


FORM 'IT 
(.See rule 19) 

Return of persons admitted through mechanical contrivance 

Name and place of entertainment : . . 

Date of performance : . . 

Amount of 

Trice of Number of Oross tax payable 

admission persons receipts to Govern- Remarks 

admittod ment 

Rs. Rs. 


(3) This certificate shall not be used for any other 
entertainment than that specified above, and it shall be 
exhibited in a prominent position at the public entrance to 
the place of entertainment at the time the public are 
admitted and during the entertainment. No correction 
or erasure of any kind shall be made in the certificate. 

(4) If the entertainment is not given on the date or at 
the place specified above, the persons responsible for the 
management of the entertainment shall give notice in 
writing to that effect within one week after the date fixed 
for holding it. 

(Signed) 

Commissioner of Entertainments 

[Vote— Failure to comply with anv of the conditions 
set out in this certificate involves liability of fine which 
may extend to five hundred rupees. 


Date . . 


Signature of the Proprietor. . 


FORM ‘E’ 

(See rule 24) 

Return of complimentary tickets 
Name and place of entertainment : ., 


Date of performance: 


Number of 
° complimen- 
u ° tary tickets 
issued 


2 


Serial number of tickets Amount of 
issued tax payable 

— — — • to Govern- 

From To ment 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 

rs7 


FORM 'G 1 
(See rule 26) 

' 1 Form of Certificate proscribed under rule 26 for exemption 
under clause (b) or (c) of sub-section (1) of section 5 

This is to certify that the Commissioner of Entertainments 
authorises the entertainment specified below to be given 

•clause (b) 

REE OF ENTERTAINMENT TAX under ‘clause '(c) of 

sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Act. 

Description: 

Date: 

Place: 

This certificate is issued on the following conditions 

(1) This certificate shall not be used for any other enter- 
tainment than that specified above, and it shall be exhibited 
in a prominent position at the public entrance to the place of 
entertainment at the time the public are admitted and during 
the entertainment. No correction or erasure of any kind shall 
bo made in the certificate. 

(2) If the entertainmont is not given on the date or at the place 
specified above, the persons responsible for the management 
of the entertainment shall give notice in writing to that effect 
within a week after the date fixed for holding it. 


(Signed) . . 

Commissioner of Entertainments 
♦Strike out which is not applicable. 


Date . . 


Signature of the Proprietor. . 


FORM ‘F’ 

( See rule 26) 

Form of Certificate prescribed under rule 26 

This is to certify that the Commissioner of Entertain- 
ments authorises the entertainment specified below to be 
given FREE OF ENTERTAINMENTS TAX provided that 
the whole of the takings are devoted to philanthrophic 
or charitable purposes : — 

Description 
Date : — 

Place 


FORM ‘H’ 

[See sub-rule (2) of rule 29] 

Return of tickets sold under rule 29 to Indian soldiers 
(including airmen) and sailors In uniform 
Name and place of entertainment: . . Week ending:. . 

Numbor of tickets sold 

Rate of tickets sold gt each rate Remarks 

1 2 3 


Date 


Signature of the Proprietor 



152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III-Sec. 3 


FORM T 
[See Rule 8] 

Register of refund and renewals of damaged or spoiled entertainment stamps 



3 o 

tM 

O 

*4-i 

O 


§ 

9 


& a 

h- 

ctf 

*q 

a° 

q ^ 

55 

"3 s 
"g a 

o 

u- 

q 

P4 

oS 
«8 
c3 In 

Q£ 

Whether 
ticn is f 
renewal 

i 'E 

■fc’S 

Date of 
stamps 

2 

3 

4 

5 



D 

B o, Tj 

s s c i 

O -.5 
IS.y-q 

l|-gg 
> § 
10 


£-a 

B g 

rtf 

" O 

ttM 

O £ 

2 3 s 

818 

Ctl rr-J L* 

Uh « O 

11 


-rt O 

B ^ 

1j ^ 
0 > 

is 


c5 

p S 

5 o 

12 


- ° 

O S3 


■g.Ss- 

§ — o 
<£ d — 

fj g n 

4-, 2 ^ 

oEj 

*• m B 

ri QJ 
2 Lu V, 

o ^ 

8 

C fj o 

cd pt 

4; — oj 

13 


II 

V* 

O O 

-o 

u y 

3 £ 
C2 O 

14 


S ’gf 


T3 53 

ct3 


v-t yj en 

3 Pi 35 

"Bo 

a*" 

■S-8 

4-* rt cl 

|££ 

see 

15 


q o* 
,3j £ 

Cl Q 
’5 a 

9 P 


§c 

I'S 

■“SV. c 
c/5 o 

16 


JS 

■=> E 
8 
a a 

ii 8 1 

rt 


8 


o < C 

17 


M 

18 


Legislature Department 

Panjim, the 1 i//i November 1964 

No, EA/ 1057/64 — The following Act passed by the 
Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu received 
the assent of the President of India on the 27th October 
1964, and is hereby published for general information. 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU EXCISE DUTY 
ACT, 1964 

(No. 5 of 1964) [27r/i October , 1964] 

An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to 
the levy of a tree tax and of a duty of excise on liquor in 
the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu and for 
matters connected therewith. 

Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, 
Daman and Diu in the Fifteenth year of the Republic 
of India as follows : 

1. Short title, extent and commencement. — (1) This 
Act may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu Excise Duty 
Act, 1964. 

(2) It extends to the whole of the Union Territory of 
Goa, Daman and Diu. 

(3) Tt shall come into force on such date as the Govern- 
ment may, by notification, appoint and different dates may 
be notified for different areas. 

2. Definitions . — In this Act, unless the context other- 
wise requires, — 

(a) “beer” includes ale, stout, porter and any other 
fermented liquor usually made from malt; 

(b) “to bottle” means to transfer liquor from a cask 
or other vessel to a bottle, jar, flask or similar receptacle 
for the purpose of sale, whether any process of manufac- 
ture or rectification be employed or not. and includes 
rebottling; 

( c) “country liquor” means liquor manufactured in any 
part, of India other than foreign liquor; 

(d) "denatured” means effectually and permanently 
rendered unfit for human consumption; 

(e) “Commissioner” means the Commissioner appoint- 
ed under sub-section (1) of section 3; 

(f) “duty” means the duty of excise imposed by or 
under this Act in any of the wavs indicated in section 
13, and in the case of imports, the countervailing duty 
mentioned in entry 51 of List II in the Seventh Schedule 
to the Constitution; 

( g) "Excise Officer” means the Commissioner or any 
other officer appointed under sub-seetton (1) of section 

(h) “export” means take out of the Territory to any 
place in India beyond the limits of the Territory; 

(i) “foreign liquor” means beer, brandv, whisky, gin, 
ram, milk punch, wines and such other liquor as mav, 
by notification be declared by the Government as foreign 
liquor for the purposes of this Act; 

(j) “Government” means thfe Government of Goa, 
Daman and Diu; 

(k) “import" means bring into the Territory from any 
place in India beyond the limits of the Territory. 

(l) "liquor” includes spirits of wine, mcfhvlated or 
denatured spirits, spirits, wines, toddy, beer, feni and 
all liquid consisting of or containing alcohol otheT than 
medicinal and toilet preparations; 

(m) “manufacture” includes every process, whether 
natural or artificial, by which any fermented, spirituous, 


or intoxicating liquor is produced, prepared or blended 
and also eveiy process for the rectification or redistilla- 
tion of liquor; 

(n) “notification” means notification published in the 
Official Gazette; 

to) “Official Gazette” means the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Government Gazelle; 

(p) “place" includes a house, building, shop, tent, 
vehicle, vessel, boat, raft or enclosure; 

(q) “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made under 
this Act; 

(r) “proof litre” means a litre of a mixture of ethyl 
alcohol and distilled water which at the temperature of 51 
degrees Fahrenheit weighs exactly twelve-thirteenths 
(12/13) parts of an equal measure of distilled water at 
the same temperature. 

(s) "rectification” includes every process whereby 
spirits are purified or arc coloured or flavoured by mixing 
any material therewith; 

(t) "sale” with its grammatical variations and cognate 
expressions includes every transfer otherwise than by way 
of gift; 

(u) "spirits" means any liquor containing alcohol and 
obtained by distillation, whether it is denatured or not; 

(v) "Territory” means the Union Territory of Goa, 
Damon and Diu; 

(w) “toddy” means fermented or unfermented juice 
drawn from coconut, cajuri or any kind of palm-tree; 

fx) “transport” means to move from one place to 
another within the Territory. 

3. Appointment of Excise Officers and delegation of 
powers. — ff) For the purpose of implementing the pro- 
visions of this Act, the Government may appoint a 
Commissioner and as many Deputy or Assistant Com- 
missioners or other officers as may be considered neces- 
sary. 

(2) The Government may delegate to the Commis- 
sioner all or any of its powers under this Act. 

(3) The Commissioner may, subject to the approval 
of the Government, delegate to any Deputy or Assistant 
Commissioner, or such other officer as may be prescribed, 
all or any of his powers under this Act. 

4. Import and export of liquor .- — No liquor shall be 
imported into or exported from the Territory except on 
the authoritv of a permit issued by the Commissioner 
indicating that the duty, if any, imposed bv or under this 
Act has been paid or a hood has been executed for the 
pavmcut thereof in the prescribed form and manner. 

5. Transport of liquor.— -No liquor, exceeding such 
quantity as the Government mav, from time to time, 
prescribe bv notification either for the whole of the 
Territory or for aw local area thereof, shall be trans- 
ported within the Territory except on the authority of 
and in accordance with the conditions, if any, in a permit 
issued bv the Commissioner : 

Provided that unless the Government by notification 
otherwise directs with respect to any local area, no such 
permit shall be required when foreign linuor is trans- 
ported for eenpine private consumption or foe sale at an v 
place at which ffie sale of such linuor is duly licensed 
or permitted under the provisions of this Act. 

6 'Removal of Vnuor from dfttillerv. etc.— No liquor 
shall be removed from anv distillerv. brewery, not still 
warehouse or other place of storage established or b’cemed 
under this Act unless the duty, if any, payable under this 



Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Act has been paid or unless a bond has been executed 
for the payment thereof in the prescribed form and 
manner, 

7. Manufacture of liquor. — (1) No liquor shall be 
nianuf act tired or produced or bottled, no tree shall be 
tapped for toddy and no juice shall be drawn from any 
tree op from cashew fruit except under the authority of a 
licence issued under this Act. 

(2) No person shall use, keep or have in his possession 
any material, still, utensil, implement cr apparatus for the 
urpose of manufacturing any liquor and no disdllery, 
rewerv or pot still shall be constructed or worked, save 
under the authority of a licence issued under this Act in 
this behalf. 

8. Possession of and transactions in Uquor. — (1) No 
person not being a licensed manufacturer or dealer of 
liquor shall have in his nossession any quantity of liquor 
in excess of such quantity as the Government may, by 
notification, prescribe. except under the authority of a 
permit issued by the Commissioner and in accordance with 
the conditions, if any, therein. 

(2) Every dealer or vendor of liquor shall maintain 
a full account of his transactions in liquor in the prescrib- 
ed form. 

9. Sale of liquor. — No liquor shall be sold except under 
the authority of a licence issued under this Act; 

Provided that the Government may, by notification, 
direct that a licence for sale granted under any other 
lav/ for the time being in force in the Territory may, 
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the 
notification be deemed to be a licence granted under this 
Act. 1 

10. Prohibition of transport of liquor.— The Govern- 
ment may, by notification, prohibit, the transport of 
liquor. 

11. Establishment of distilleries and warehouses. — The 
Commissioner may with the previous approval of the 
Government — 

(a) establish a public distillery, or authorise the estab- 
lishment of one or more private distilleries, in which 
liquor may be manufactured under a licence granted 
under this Act; 

(h) establish a public warehouse, or authorise the 
establishment of one or more private warehouses, wherein 
liquor may he deposited and kept without payment of 
duty; and 

(c) discontinue any public otr private distillery or 
warehouse so established. 

12. Levy of Duty. — There shall be levied and collected, 
at such rates and in such manner as may be prescribed by 
or under this Act, not exceeding the rates set forth in 
the Schedule, a duty of excise on all liquor manufac- 
tured in, or brought into the Territory : 

Provided that no such duty shall be levied on toddy 
when used for the manufacture of jaggery, vinegar, yeast 
or nccra or when drunk as such. 

13. Mode of Levy. — The duty on liquor leviable under 
this Act may he levied in one or more of the following 
ways, namely :■ — - 

(a) by way of a duty on the quantity of liquor manu- 
factured in or passed out of any place of manufacture or 
storage including a distillery, brewery or warehouse licens- 
ed or established under this Act; and. 

Cb) bv way of a duty on the quantity of liquor import- 
ed into the Territory, 

14. Recovery of tree tax. — f 1 ) There shall he levied 
on each tree from which toddy is drawn a tax at the 
rates specified in the Schedule and in the manner prescrib- 
ed. 

(2) When any tax is levied on a tree under sub-section 
(1) the licence under section 7 shall be granted to a 
person other than the owner of such tree only on pro- 
duction of the written consent of such owner to the grant 
of the licence. 

(3) When any tax is due in respect of any tree, it 
shall be recoverable from the tapper or in default bv 
him, where the tree is tapped without a licence under this 
Act, from the owner or occupier of the land, unless he 
proves that the trees were tapped without his consent. 

Explanation .’ — In this section, the expression owner 
includes a person in possession. 


15. Ltcences. — Every licence or permit granted under 
this Act shall bo granted, — 

(a) by such officer, 

(b) on payment of such fees, if any, 

(c) for such period, 

(d) subject to such conditions restrictions, and 

(c) in such form and with such particulars as may 
be prescribed or under this Act. 

16. Power to cancel licences . — (1) A licence or permit 
granted under this Act may be cancelled by the Commis- 
sioner for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in 
writing, after giving an opportunity to the person con- 
cerned for making any representation and after consi- 
dering such representation. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of sub-section (1) the Commissioner may cancel or 
suspend any licence or permit granted under this Act,— 

(a) if any fee or duty payable by the holder thereof be 
not duly paid; or 

(b) if there is any breach by the holder of such licence 
or permit, or by his servants, or by any one acting with 
his express or implied consent on his behalf of any of the 
terms or conditions of such licence or permit or of the 
terms of any agreement executed under section 17; or 

(c) if the holder thereof is punished for any offence 
against this Act, or of any cognizable or non-bailable 
offence; or 

(d) if the conditions of the licence or permit provide 
for such cancellation or suspension. 

(3) The holder of a licence or permit shall not be 
entitled to any compensation for the cancellation or sus- 
pension thereof under this section nor to a refund of any 
fee paid or deposit made in respect thereof. 

17. Agreement. — Every person taking out a licence 
under this Act may be required to execute an agreement 
in conformity with the tenor of his licence and in the 
form prescribed, and to give such security, if any, for 
the performance of his agreement as may be prescribed. 

18. Measures , weights and testing instruments. — Every 
person who manufactures or sells any liquor is bound- 

la) to equip himself with such measures, weights and 
instruments as the Commissioner may require and to 
keep the same in good condition; and, 

(b) on the requisition of any Excise Officer dulv em- 
powered in that behalf, at any time to measure, weigh or 
test any liquor in his possession in such manner as such 
Officer may require. 

19. Prohibition of sale etc. to certain persons. — No 
licensed vendor and no person in the employ of a vendor 
and acting on his behalf shall sell or deliver any liquor — 

(a) to any person apparently under the age of 18 years, 
or 

(b) to any person of unsound mind. 

20. Recovery of sums due to Government.- — In respect 
of any duty and other sums of any kind payable to the 
Government under any of the provisions of this Act or 
of the rules, made thereunder, the officer empowered to 
levy such duty or require the payment of such sums may 
deduct the amount so payable from any money owing 
to the person from whom such sums may be recoverable 
or due which may be in his hands or under his disposal 
or control, or may recover the amount by attachment and 
sale of excisable goods belonging to such person; and if 
the amount payable is not so recovered he may prepare 
a certificate signed by him specifying the amount due 
from the person liable to pay the same and send it to the 
appropriate officer for the time being authorised by law 
to recover arrears of revenue and having jurisdiction over 
the place in which such person resides or conducts his 
business and the said officer, on receipt of such certi- 
ficate, shall proceed to recover from the said person the 
amount specified therein as if it were an arrear of land 
revenue. 

21. Transitional. — (1) Everv stockist, dealer or vendor 
of liquor shall give a declaration in writing to (he Com- 
missioner or an officer nominated bv him in this behalf, 
containing detailed particulars and account of the various 
categories of liquor in his possession or control on the 
date of coming into force of this Act, 



154 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 


(2) No such liquor shall be sold by him except on 
payment of duty equal in amount to that leviable on 
liquor of a like kind if manufactured in, or, as the case 
may be, imported into, the Territory after the commence- 
ment of the Act and on the grant of permission to sell the 
same by the Commissioner or his nominee. 

(3) The Commissioner may permit the sale of the 
whole or part of any such stock of liquor on the deposit of 
a suitable amount pending the payment of the duty 
leviable or on executing a bond therefor in the form and 
manner prescribed. 

22. Power of Government to make rules. — (1) The 
Government may make rules generally for the purpose 
of carrying out the purposes of this Act. 

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality 
of the foregoing provisions, such rules may provide 
for — 

(a) regulating the delegation of any power by the 
Commissioner; 

(b) defining the powers and duties of officers of the 
Excise Department; 

(c) regulating the extraction and distillation of toddy 
and its sale to licensed vendors; 

(d) regulating the extraction of cashew juice, the price 
to be charged for its sale, the distillation of liquor there- 
from and its sale; 

(e) regulating the import, export, transport or posses- 
sion of any liquor; 

(f) prescribing the mode of and conditions for the 
grant of licence to manufacture or sell liquor by whole- 
sale or by retail, including conditions as to the period 
of validity of the licence, areas in which it is valid and 
the procedure to be followed before its grant; 

(g) the prohibition of sale of any liquor to such per- 
sons or class of persons in such circumstances as may 
be prescribed. 

(h) the prohibition of the employment by the licensee 
of such persons or class of persons as may be specified, 
to assist in his business in such capacity as may be speci- 
fied; 

(i) the prevention of drunkeness, gambling of disorderly 
conduct in or near any licensed premises and the assembly 
of persons of bad character in such premises; 

(j) regulating the deposit of any liquor in a warehouse 
and its removal therefrom or from any distillery, pot still 
or brewery; 

(k) prescribing the manner of levying or computing 
the fees payable in respect of any licence or permit or 
in respect of storage of any liquor; 

(l) regulating the time, place and manner of payment 
of any duty or fee; 

(m) prescribing the restrictions and conditions subject 
to which any licence or permit may be granted; 

(n) fixing the days and hours during which any licensed 
premises may or may not be kept open and regulating 
the closure of such premises on special occasions; 

(o) regulating the form of accounts to be maintained 
and the returns to be submitted by licensees; 

(p) declaring the process by which spirits manufac- 
tured in India shall be denatured and for causing such 
spirit to be denatured through the agency or under the 
supervision of Excise Officers; 

(q) providing for the destruction or other disposal of 
any liquor deemed to be unfit for use; and 

(r) regulating the disposal of articles confiscated and 
the sale proceeds thereof. 

23. Power to enter and inspect place of manufacture 
and sale. — The Commissioner or any Excise Officer not 
below such rank as may be prescribed, may, — 

(a) enter and inspect at any time by day or by night 
any place in which any licensed manufacturer carries on 
the manufacture of or stores any liquor : 

Provided that no Excise Officer other than the Commis- 
sioner shall so enter or search any residential premises 
unless he is accompanied by the Sarpanch, or the Panch 
or any other respectable person of the locality. 


(b) enter and inspect at any time within the hours 
during which sale is permitted and at any other time 
during which the same may be open, any place in which 
any liquor is kept for sal© by any person holding a licence 
under this Act; 

(c) examine any book, account, or register or examine, 
test, measure or weigh any materials, stills, utensils, im- 
plements, apparatus or liquor found in any such place as 
is referred to in clauses (a) and (b) above; and, 

(d) seize any measures, weights or testing instruments 
which he has reason to believe to be false. 

24. Power of certain officers to investigate into 
offences.— (1) Amy officer of the Excise Department not 
below such rank as may be prescribed may investigate 
into any offence punishable under this Act committed 
within the limits of the area in which such officer exercises 
jurisdiction. 

(2) Any such officer may exercise the same powers in 
respect of such investigation as an officer in charge of a 
police station may exercise in respect of an investigation 
into a cognizable case under the provisions of the Code 
of Criminal Procedure 1898 and, if specially empowered 
in that behalf by the Government, such officer may for 
reasons to be recorded by him in writing, stop further 
proceedings against any person concerned in any such 
offence into which he has investigated. 

25. Power of seizure and detention.— (1) Subject to 
such restrictions as may be prescribed, any officer of the 
Excise, Police, Customs or Land Revenue Department not 
below such rank as may bo prescribed, and any other 
person duly authorised in this behalf by the Government., 
mav seize and detain anv liquor or other article which 
he has reason to believe to be liable to confiscation under 
this Act and may search any person, vessel, raft, vehicle, 
animal, package, receptacle or covering upon whom, or in 
or upon which, he mav have reasonable cause to suspect 
any such liquor or article to be or to be concealed. 

f2) Where, as a result of such search, uo liquor or 
other article is actually found to be concealed on such 
person, vessel, raft, vehicle, animal, package, receptacle 
or covering, a certificate to that effect shall be given in 
the prescribed form by the officer to the person concern- 
ed. 

26. Search Warrants. — If anv Magistrate upon informa- 
tion given bv any Excise or Police officer or anv other 
person has reason to believe that an offence under this 
Act has been. Is being or is likelv to be committed, be 
mav. after recording the information in writing signed bv 
the informant, issue a warrant for the search of anv place 
in which he has reason to believe that anv liquor or anv 
utensil, implement, apparatus or materials, in resnect of 
which snch offence has been, is being, or is likely to be 
committed, is kept or concealed, 

27. Power of Excise Officer to search without warrant . — - 
('ll Whenever an officer of the Excise Department, not 
below such rank a s mav be prescribed, has reason to be- 
lieve that an nffpnre punishable under this Act has been 
is being or is likelv to he committed in am r nlace and 
♦hat a search warrant cannot be obtained without afford- 
ing the offender an opportunity of concealing evidence 
of the offence, he mav after recording his reasons and 
grounds of his belief at anv time, bv day or niubt, ppter 
and search such place and may srize anythin" found 
tb groin which be has reason to believe to be liable to 
confiscation under this Art • 

Provided that no search shall be made during the hours 
from 7 p.m, to 7 a.m. save in exceptional circumstances 
and with the prior approval of the Commissioner. 

f21 Anv such officer mav arrest anv person found in 
such place whom he has reasons to believe to be guilty 
of anv offence under this Act : 

Provided that every person arrested under this section 
shell be admitted to bail bv such officer as aforesaid if 
sufficient hail he tendered for his appearance either before 
a Magistrate or an Excise Officer. 

28. Duty of officers of certain departments to report 
offences and to assist Excise Officers. — F.vcrv officer of the 
Police. Customs and Laud Revenue Departments shall be 
bound to give immediate information to an officer of the 
Excise Department of anv breach of anv of the provisions 
of this Act which mav come to his knowledge, and to 
aid anv officer of the Excise Department in carrying out 
the provisions of this Act upon request made by such 
officer. 



T HE CAXEttE 0? INDIA, KOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


155 


Part III— Sec, 5] 


29. Duty of officer in charge of police station to take 
charge of articles seized. — Every officer in. charge of a 
police station shall take charge of and keep in sale cus- 
tody, pending the orders of a Magistrate or the Commis- 
sioner or an Excise Officer duly empowered in that be- 
half, all articles seized under this Act which may be 
delivered to him; and shall allow any officer of the 
Excise Department who may accompany such articles to 
the police station or may be deputed tor the purpose by 
his superior officer, to affix his seals to such articles, and 
to take samples of or from them. All samples so taken 
shall also be sealed with the seal of the officer in charge 
of the police station. 

30. Penalty for contravention, of provisions. — Whoever, 
in contravention of this Act, or of any rules or order 
made thereunder, or of the condictions in any licence or 
permit obtained under this Act, 

(a) imports, exports, transports or possesses liquor; 
or 

(b) manufactures, produces or bottles liquor; or 

(cl constructs or works any distillery, brewery or pot 
still; or 

(d) uses, keeps, or has in his possession any mate- 
rials, still, utensils, implements or apparatus whatsoever 
for the purpose of manufacturing liquor; or 

(e) sells liquor; or 

(f) draws toddy from any tree, 

shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished for 
each such offence with a fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupees or imprisonment for a term which may 
extend to one year or with both. 

Provided that in respect of any offence under clause 
(f), the amount of line may be such lower figure as may 
be prescribed. 

31. Penally for certain acts or omissions by holders of 
licence .- — Whoever, being the holder of a licence or per- 
mit granted under this Act or being in the employ of 
such holder and acting on his behalf, — • 

(a) fails to produce such licence or permit on demand 
by any Excise Officer or any other officer duly empower- 
ed to make such demand; or 

(b) wilfully does or omits to do anything in breach of 
any of the conditions of his licence or permit not other- 
wise provided for in this Act; or 

(c) wilfully contravenes any rule made under section 
22 of this Act; or 

(d) permits drunkenness, disorderly conduct, riot or 
gambling in any place in which any liquor is sold or manu- 
factured; or 

(e) permits persons of notoriously bad character to 
meet or remain in any such place, 

shall on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished 
for each such offence with line which may extend to five 
hundred rupees or with imprisonment which may extend 
to three months or with both. 

32. Penalty for certain acts by holders of licence for 
sale or manufacture . — Whoever, being the holder of a 
licence for the sale or manufacture of liquor under this 
Act, or being in the employ of such holder acting on his 
behalf,- — 

(a) mixes or permits to be mixed with the liquor sold 
or manufactured by him any noxious drug or any foreign 
ingredient likely to add to its actual or apparent intoxi- 
cating quality or strength; 

(b) sells or exposes for sale foreign liquor which he 
knows or has reason to believe to be country liquor; 

(c) marks any bottle or its cork, or any case, package 
or other receptacle containing liquor manufactured from 
rectified spirit or country liquor with the intention of 
causing it to be, believed that such bottle, case, package 
or other receptacle contains foreign liquor. 

•shall, on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished for 
each such offence with line which may extend to five 
hundred rupees or with imprisonment which may extend 
to three months or with both. 

33. Penalty for possession of contraband liquor.— Who- 
ever. without lawful authority, has in his possession anv 
quantity of liquor knowing the same to have been unlaw- 
fully imported transported or manufactured, or knowing 
that the prescribed duty has not been paid thereon, shall, 


on conviction before a Magistrate, be punished with fine 
which may extend to one thousand rupees or with impri- 
sonment which may extend to six months or with both. 

34. Vexatious search seizure, etc. by Officers . — ( 1 ) 
Any Excise Officer or other person exercising powers 
under this Act, or under the rules made thereunder, 
who, — 

(a) without reasonable ground of suspicion searches 
or causes to be searched any place; 

(b) vexatiously and unnecessarily detains, searches or 
arrests any person; 

(c) vexatiously and unnecessarily seizes the movable 
property of any person, on pretence of seizing or search- 
ing lor any article liable to confiscation under this Act; 

(d) commits, as such officer, any other act to the injury 
of any person, without having reason to believe that, such 
act is required for the execution of his duty; 

shall, on conviction belore a Majistrate, be punished 
with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees. 

(2) Any person wilfully and maliciously giving false 
infonnauon and so causing an arrest or a search to De 
made under this Act shall De pumsnabie with hue whicn 
may extend lo two thousand rupees or wnh imprison- 
ment lor a term which may extend to two years or with 
both. 

35. Penalties for offences not otherwise provided for.— 
Whoever is guilty ot any act or intentional omission in 
contravention of any of the provisions of this Act, or 
of any rule or order made under this Act, and not other- 
wise provided for therein shall be punished for each such 
act or omission with fine which may extend to one 
thousand rupees. 

36. Presumption as to commission of offence in certain 
cases.— In every prosecution for an ohence punishable 
under this Act, it shall be presumed until the contrary is 
proved, that the accused person, has committed such 
offence in respect of any liquor, or any still, utensil, 
implement, or apparatus whatsoever for the manufac- 
ture of liquor or any such materials as are ordinarily used 
in the manufacture of liquor, for the possession of which 
he is unable to account satistactorily; and the holder ot a 
licence or permit under this Act shall be punishable, as 
well as the actual offender, for any offence committed by 
any person in his employ and acting on his behalf as if 
he had himself committed the same, unless he establishes 
that all due and reasonable precautions were exercised by 
him to prevent the commission of such offence. 

37. Confiscation. — (1) lu any case in which an offence 
has been committed under this Act, the liquor, materials, 
still, utensil, implement or apparatus in respect or by 
means of which such offence has been committed shall 
be liable to confiscation. 

(2) Any liquor lawfully imported, exported, transport- 
ed, manufactured, had in possession or sold along with, 
or in addition to, any liquor liable to confiscation under 
this section, and the receptacles, packages and coverings 
in which any such liquor, materials, still, utensil, imple- 
ment or apparatus as aforesaid is or are found, and the 
other contents, if any, of the receptacles or packages in 
which the same is or are found, and the animals, carts, 
vessels or other conveyances used in carrying the same, 
shall likewise be liable to confiscation. 

Provided that no such animal, cart, vessel, or other 
conveyances shall be so liable to confiscation if the owner 
thereof, is not the owner of the articles thereby removed 
and establishes that he had no reason to believe that such 
offence was being or was likely to be committed. 

(3) When anything mentioned in sub-sections (1) and 
(2) is found in circumstances which afford reason to 
believe that an offence under this Act has been com- 
mitted in respect or by means thereof, or when such 
offence has been committed and the offender is not known 
or cannot be found, the Commissioner may order confisca- 
tion of the same ; 

Provided that no such order shall be made until the 
expiration of one month from the date of seizing the 
thing or animal in question or without hearing the person, 
if any, claiming any right thereto, and considering the 
evidence, if any, which he produces in support of the 
claim. 

Provided further, that if the thing in question is liable 
to speedy and natural decay, or if the Commissioner is of 
the opinion that the sale of the thing or animal in question 
would be for the benefit of its owner, he may at any time 
direct it to be sold; and the provisions of this section shall, 
so far as may be, apply to the net proceeds of such sale. 



156 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III- Sec. 3 


(4) When anything is confiscated under sub-sections 

(1) or (2) above, it shall thereupon vest in the Govern- 
ment. 

38. Limits of confiscation, — In every case in which, 
under this Act, anything is liable to confiscation and 
penalty, such confiscation and penalty may be ordered, — 

(a) wiihout limit by the Commissioner, or 

(b) upto confiscation of goods not exceeding five hun- 
dred rupees and imposition of penalty not exceeding fifty 
rupees by such other Excise Officers as the Government 
may, from time to time, empower in that behalf. 

39. Fine in lieu of confiscation . — Whenever confiscation 
is authorised by this Act, the officer ordering the same 
may give the owner of the goods an option to pay in lieu 
of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit. Pay- 
ment of the fine docs not absolve the owner of the goods 
from the payment of duties and other charges prescribed 
in this Act. 

40. Appeals. — ( 1 ) Any person deeming himself 
aggrieved by any decision or order passed by any Excise 
Officer under this Act or the rules made thereunder may, 
within ninety days from the date of such decision or 
order, appeal therefrom to the Commissioner, or where 
the decision or order was passed by the Commissioner, to 
the Government. The Commissioner or the Government 
may thereupon make such further inquiry and pass order 
as he or it thinks fit, confirming, altering or annuling the 
decision or order appealed against ; 

Provided that no such order in appeal shall have the 
effect of subjecting any person to any greater confiscation 
or penally than has been adjudged against him in the 
original decision or order. 

(2) Eveiy order passed in appeal under this section 
shall, subject to the power of revision conferred by sec- 
tion 41, be final. 

41. Revision by Government. — The Government may, 
on the application of any person aggrieved by any deci- 
sion or order passed under this Act, or the rules made 
thereunder, by any Excise officer or by the Commissioner 
and from which no appeal lies, reverse or modify such 
decision or order. 

42. Exemptions. — ( I ) Where in the opinion of the 
Government reasonable grounds exist for doing so, the 
Government may by notification and subject to such 
conditions and restrictions as it may impose, exempt any 
person or class of persons or any liquor from all or any 
of the provisions of this Act or of rules made thereunder 
cither throughout Goa, Daman and Diu or in any speci- 
fied part thereof or for any specified period or occasion. 

(2) For the removal of doubts it is hereby declared 
that nothing in this Act shall apply to the import, export 
possession or transport of liquor or other articles dealt 
with by any law relating to Customs or Central Excise. 

43. Publication of rules and notifications. — All rules 
made and notifications issued under this Act shall be pub- 
lished in the Official Gazette and shall thereupon nave 
effect from the date of such publication or from such other 
date as may be specified in that behalf. 

44. Bar of certain suits. — (1) No suit shall lie in any 
civil court against the Government or any officer or 
person for damages for any act in good faith done or 
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act. 

(2) No civil court shall try any suit which may lawfully 
bo brought against the Government in respect of anything 
done or alleged to be done in pursuance of this Act 
unless the suit is instituted within one hundred and eighty 
days from the date of commission of the act complained 
of. 

45. Repeal. — (1) On the commencement of this Act, 
any law in force in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman 
and Diu authorising taxes and duties on manufacture and 
sale of liquor or providing for any matter for which pro- 
vision is made in this Act, shall stand repealed. 

(2) The provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897 
shall apply to the repeal under sub-section (1) as if the 
law referred to therein were a Central Act. 

46. Power to remove difficulties,— If any difficulty 
arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 
Government may, by order, as occasion requires, do any- 
thing (not inconsistent with this Act) which appears to it 
to be necessary for removing the difficulty. 

S. BALAKRISHNAN 
Secretary to the Government 
of Goa , Daman and Diu 


SCHEDULE 


(See Sections 12, 14 and 15) 

A 


Rates of duty on liquor manufactured in or passed out of any 
place of manufacture or storage including a distillery, brewery 
or warehouse licenced or established under the Act : 

(1) Foreign liquor other than Rs. 9 per proof litre 

milk punch, wines and 
beer 

(2) Milk Punch and wines Rs. 4 per bulk litre 

(3) Boer Re. 0-75 ps. por bulk 

litre 


(4) Country liquor 

(5) Rectified spirit or abso- 

lute alcohol except when 
used for manufacture 
of liquor or for medical 
purposes 

(6) Denatured spirit 

(7) For blending of country 

liquor 


Re. 1 per proof litre 
Re. U-5u ps. per proof 
litre 


Re. 0-5<j ps. per proof 
litre 

Ro. 0-50 ps. per bulk 
litre in addition to the 
duty on manutaeture 


B 


Rates of countervailing duty on liquor imported into 
the Territory : 

Such amount as represents the difference, if any, be- 
tween the duty leviable uuder tins Act on the quantity of 
liquor imported, had it been manuiaetuied m the Terri- 
tory and the duty actually levied on the same quantity of 
s imil ar goods produced at the place of manufacture : 

C 


Rates of fees on licences per year : 

I. Manufacture ; 

(1) For manufacturing foreign liquor other than 
bear : Rs, 500/-. 

(2) For manufacturing beer : Rs, 250/-. 

(3) For manufacturing rectified spirit or absolute 
alcohol or both : Rs. 200/ -. 

(4) For manufacturing country liquor : Rs, 13/- 
per still. 

(5) For blending of country liquor : Rs. 150/-. 

(b) For bottling of foreign liquor : Rs. 100/-. 

II. Sale : 

(1) For wholesale vendors of liquor: Cities 
Rs. 1200/-, Towns Rs. 800/- and Villages 
Rs. 500/ -. 

(2) For retail vendors of liquor : Cities Rs. 400/-, 
Towns Rs, 300/- and Villages Rs. 200/-. 

(3) For wholesale vendors of rectified' spirit or 
absolute alcohol or denatured spirit : Cities 
Rs. 300/- Towns Rs. 250/- and Villages 
Rs. 200/-. 

(4) For retail vendors of rectified spirit or absolute 
alcohol or denatured spirit: Cities Rs. 100/-, 
Towns Rs. 50/- and Villages Rs. 25/-. 

Explanation. — For the purposes of the above : 

(a) (Cities) means municipal areas of Panjim, 
Margao, Mapuca and Vasco da Gama. 

(b) (Towns) meaas municipal areas of Ponda, 
Bicholim, Valpoi, Pernem, Sanguem, Quepem, 
Chauri, Curchorem, Sanquclini, Daman and Diu. 

(c) (Villages) means all other parts of Goa, Daman 
and Diu. 

III. Import and Export : 

For each permit for import or export of liquor : 
Rs. 10/-. 

IV. Miscellaneous : 

( 1 ) For retail vendors of liquor for keeping the 
shops open up to two hours after the prescribed 
time of closing : a surcharge of 50% of the 
licence fee. 

(2) For an occasional licence for retail vendors of 
liquor : First day Rs. 10/-, next 4 days Rs. 6/- 
per dav, next 15 days Rs. 4/- per day, next 40 
days Rs. 2-50 Ps. per day and next 60 days 
Rs. 1-50 Ps. 

E 


Tree tax per tree per year : 

(1) Coconut tree Rs. 10/, Cajuri and date trees 
Rs. 7/- in Goa and Daman and Rs. 5/- in Diu. 



Part III— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


157 


Finance Department 

Panjim, l he 20th November 1964 

No. FS/F. //// 11-1 18/ 205 84 — In exercise of the 
powers conferred by section 22 of the Goa, Daman and 
Diu Excise Duty Act, 1964, the Government hereby 
makes the following rules. 

THE GOA, DAMAN AND DIU (EXCISE DUTY) 
RULES, 1965 

CHAPTER I 
Preliminary 

1. Short title and commencement. — These rules may fee 
called the Goa, Daman and Diu Excise Duty Rules, 1964, 
and shall come into force on Is/ December 1964. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context other- 
wise requires : — 

(a) ‘the Act’ means the Goa, Daman and Diu 
Excise Duty Act, 19 64; 

(b) ‘Assistant Excise Commissioner’ means the 
Assistant Commissioner appointed under sub- 
section (1) of section 3; 

(c) ‘blending’ includes every process whereby coun- 
try liquor coloured or flavoured by any mate- 
rial therewith; 

(d) ‘Commissioner’ means the Commissioner ap- 
pointed under sub-section (1) of section 3; 

(e) ‘Excise Guard' means a person appointed as 
an Excise Guard for the purposes- of these 
Rules; 

(f) ‘Indian made foreign liquor’ means brandy, 
whisky, gin, rum, milk punch, wines, beer made 
in India and such other liquor as may be declar- 
ed by the Government as Indian made foreign 
liquor; 

(g) ‘quart bottle’ means a bottle of 0,750 litres; 

(h) ‘retail vendor’ means a dealer who is licensed as 
such to sell liquor in quantity not exceeding 9 
litres or 12 quart bottles in one transaction; 

(i) ‘Schedule’ means Schedule appended to the Act; 

(j) ‘section’ means a section of the Act; 

(k) ‘wholesale vendor’ means a dealer who is licens- 
ed as such to sell liquor in any quantity to any 
wholesale or retail vendor, or to any other per- 
son, in quantity exceeding 9 litres or 12 quart 
bottles under permit issued by the Commis- 
sioner or any other Excise Officer duly em- 
powered in that behalf; 

Words and expressions used in these rules, defined in 
the Act and not defined in these rules have the mean- 
ings assigned to them in the Act. 


CHAPTER H 

Indian Made Foreign Liquor 
Import in bond 

3. Methods of Import . — Subject to the provisions of the 
Act, Indian made foreign liquor may be imported in 
accordance with this chapter, either : — 

(1) in bond for payment of duty in the Territory, 
or 

(2) on payment of duty in the Territory. 

4. Conditions for Import in bond . — Any licensed whole- 
sale vendor of Indian made foreign liquor or foreign 
liquor may import Indian made foreign liquor from a 
distillery or brewery or warehouse in other parts of India, 
under a bond for payment of duty levied on such liquor, 
after he or his representative duly authorised on his 
behalf has : — 

(a) obtained a permit for import from the Commis- 
sioner, and 

(b) executed a general or special bond for pay- 
ment of duty. 


5. Application for permit. — A dealer desirous of 
importing Indian made foreign liquor, in bond, shall pre- 
sent an application in Form El to the Commissioner, 
specifying : — 

(a) the name of the distillery or brewery or ware- 
house from which the liquor is to be imported; 

(b) the quantity, strength and description of each 
kind of liquor to be imported and whether the 
import is to be in bulk or in bottles; 

(c) the route of import and Check-post at entrance 
into the Territory; 

(d) the name and situation of the bonded warehouse 
in the Territory to which the liquor is to bo 
consigned. 

(2) A separate application shall be made for each 
consignment. If the application is found to be in order, 
the applicant shall execute either a general or a special 
bond for payment of duty on the quantity to be imported, 
(unless a general bond previously executed by him is 
still in force). 

(3) The Commissioner shall, unless there are reasons 
to the contrary, issue a permit in Form E2, in quintupli- 
cate, for import containing all the particulars specified in 
sub-rule (1) and clearly specifying that a bond for pay- 
ment of duty has been executed. One copy of the permit 
shall be made over to the applicant, the second shall be 
forwarded to the appropriate Excise authority of the 
State or Union Territory of export, the third shall be 
forwarded to the Inspector of the Taluka, the fourth shall 
be forwarded to the Excise Check-post at entrance and 
the fifth will be retained by the Assistant Excise Commis- 
sioner for record and verification of the consignment on 
arrival. The permit shall remain in force only up to the 
date specified therein. 

(4) The permit shall be valid for 90 days which may 
be extended for further periods not exceeding a total of 
90 days by the Commissioner, provided that the applica- 
tion for renewal is made before the date on which permit 
expires. 

(5) The importer shall present his copy of permit to 
the appropriate Excise Officer of the State or Union Terri- 
tory of export or the officer in charge of the distillery 
or brewery or warehouse from which the liquor is to be 
obtained, and shall get the necessary pass for export from 
that State or Union Territory specifying therein the quan- 
tity, description and strength ot liquor exported, the num- 
ber and date of permit authorising import into the Terri- 
tory. A copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Commis- 
sioner. 

6. Procedure on arrival of consignment in the Terri- 
tory. — (1) On arrival in the Territory, the consignment 
of liquor shall be taken direct to the bonded warehouse, 
mentioned in the permit, under escort of an Excise Guard 
from the Excise Check-post of entrance, where it shall 
be tested and measured by the officer in charge of the 
bonded warehouse and shall be taken into store and enter- 
ed in the register. 

(2) As soon as may be, after such arrival, the officer 
in charge of the warehouse shall also certify on the im- 
porter’s copy of the pass issued by the exporting State or 
Union Territory, full details regarding the liquor received 
in such form, if any, as may be required in the pass or 
permit and shall return it to the office issuing it, after 
verification by the Assistant Excise Commissioner or Ex- 
cise Officer, 

7. Clearance of consignment. — The importer will clear 
the whole or part of the consignment from the bonded 
warehouse only on payment of duty, except when the 
removal thereof to other bonded warehouse is permitted 
by file Commissioner. 

Import on Prepayment of Duty 

8. Conditions for import. — (1) A licensed wholesale 
vendor of Indian made foreign liquor or foreign liquor 
or the Regimental units of the armed forces of India 
stationed in the Territory, may import Indian made 
foreign liquor on prepayment of duty in the territory 
from a distillery or brewery or warehouse in other parts 
of India, under a permit granted as provided in the follow- 
ing rules. 

(2) After the arrival of liquor in the territory, the 
duty shall be assessed and the duty paid in excess of the 
duty so assessed shall be refunded to the importer. 


2801161 



158 . THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part HI— Sec. 3 


9. Procedure for obtaining a Permit. — (1) For a permit 
under the preceding rules, an application in Form E-l 
shall be made in writing to the Commissioner specify- 
ing : — 

(a) the name of the distillery or brewery or 
house from which the import is to be made; 

(b) the description, quantity and strength of each 
kind of liquor to be imported and whether the 
import is to be in bulk or in bottles; 

(c) the route of import; and 

(d) the amount of duty to be paid. 

(2) A separate application shall be made for each 
consignment. If the application is found to be in order 
the Assistant Excise Commissioner shall, after checking 
and correcting the amount of duty entered therein, endorse 
the application with an order directing the applicant to 
pay the amount. 

(3) The applicant shall, after paying the amount of 
duty as ordered by the Assistant Excise Commissioner, 
produce the receipt and the application before the Com- 
missioner who shall issue the permit in quintuplicate. 
One copy of the permit shall be given to the applicant, 
the second copy shall be sent to the appropriate Excise 
Officer of the State or Union Territory of export, the 
third shall be sent to the Excise Inspector of the Taiuka, 
the fourth shall be sent to the Excise Check-post at entrance 
and the fifth copy shall be retained by the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner, for record and for verification, if deemed 
necessary, of the consignment on arrival. 

(4) The validity of the permit shall be of 90 days 
which may be extended, for further periods, not exceed- 
ing a total of 90 days by the Commissioner, provided that 
the application for renewal is made before the date on 
which the permit expires. 

10. Procedure on arrival. — On receipt of the consign- 
ment, the importer shall at once notify its arrival to the 
Excise Inspector of the Taiuka in which his licensed pre- 
mises are situated, and shall allow him to check the con- 
signment and to examine and, if necessary, to test the 
contents or to take a sample hereof for test. 

Export 

11. Methods of Export. — Subject to the provisions of 
the Act and the following rules, Indian made foreign 
liquor manufactured in the Territory may be exported 
from the distillery, brewery, warehouse or licensed whole- 
sale vendor’s premises either, 

(a) on execution of a bond for payment of duty in 
the Territory; or 

(b) on payment of duty in the Territory. 

12. Application to be made to the Commissioner . — (1) 
Any manufacturer or dealer desirous of exporting liquor, 
shall submit an application in Form E3 to the Commis- 
sioner. 

(2) The application must specify ; 

(a) the name of the consignor, 

(b) the name of the consignee, 

(c) the description, quantity and strength of each 
kind of liquor to be exported, 

(d) the route of export and the Check-post at the 
exit from the Territory. 

(3) Every such application must be accompanied, by : 

(a) a permit or licence from the appropriate Excise 
authority of the State or Union Territory to 
which the liquor is to bo exported authorising 
the import of the liquor, and 

(b) either a duly executed special bond or a refer- 
ence to the general bond in force, or document 
proving the payment of duty, or 

(c) a receipt of challan for having paid in the Gov- 
ernment Treasury the duty in respect of liquor 
to be exported. 

13. Procedure for export permit.— (1) If the 
application is found to be in order, the Commissioner 
shall issue permit in Form E4. in quadruplicate, spe- 
cifying the name, quantity and strength of each kind of 
liquor. One copy of the permit shall be delivered to 
the exporter, second copy will be forwarded to the 
appropriate Excise Officer of the State or Union Terri- 
tory to which the liquor is to be taken, the third will be 


sent to the Excise Inspector of the Taiuka and the fourth 
will be retained for record. 

(2) Within a reasonable time to be fixed by the Com- 
missioner and specified in the bond or permit, as the 
case may be, the exporter shall produce before the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner of the Union Territory, a 
copy of the import permit endorsed with a certificate 
signed by the appropriate Excise Officer of State or 
Union Territory into which the import is made certify- 
ing the due arrival or otherwise of the liquor at its desti- 
nation. 

14. Extension of rime.— The Commissioner, on written 
application, may extend for good and sufficient reasons 
the currency of the permit or bond for due arrival of 
the liquor at its destination, 

15. Bond- — when to he discharged. — fl) In the case 
of liquor exported under special bond, the Commissioner 
shall discharge the bond on receipt of the certificate 
mentioned in rule 13(2) provided that none of the con- 
ditions of the bond have been infringed. 

(2) If the certificate is not received within the time 
mentioned in the bond or permit or if on receipt of the 
certificate it appears that any of the conditions of the 
bond have been infringed, the Commissioner shall forth- 
with take the necessary steps to recover from the execu- 
tant or his sureties the penalty, if any, due under the 
bond. 

16. Particulars to be painted on cask. — (1) On each 
bottle cask or other vessel containing Indian made 
foreign liquor there shall be legibly cut, painted or 
labelled : 

(i) the name and mark of the distillery or brewery 
of the Territory; 

(ii) the number of the cask or other vessel and Its 
capacity; 

(iii) the nature, quantity and strength of Its content. 

(2) Samoles of the labels and markings shall be 
lodeed with the Commissioner for his record. The 
labels of the bottle, cask or vessel of liquor for export 
clearly contain the words in red ‘For Export*. 

Execution of Bond and Payment of Fee 

17. Execution of bonds . — The bond to be executed 
by the importer or exporter for payment of duty shall 
be either a general or a special bond in Form E5 or E6, 
as the case may be, with two sureties acceptable to the 
Commissioner. 

18. Payment of fee.- — -The fee for imoort or export 
permit shall be paid in the form of court-fee stamps to 
be affixed on the application made therefor. 

Transport 

19. Transport . — A permit under Section 5 shall be in 
Form E7. 

Possession 

20. Permit for possession. — (1) Any person desirous 
of obtaining a permit for the possession of Indian made 
foreign liquor under Section 8, shall make an applica- 
tion in Form E8 stating : 

(a) the quantity required and the date on which It 
is to be purchased; 

(b) the occasion which renders the purchase neces- 
sary; 

(c) the place where the liquor is to be kept and 
consumed, 

(2) The permit shall be granted in Form E9. 


CHAPTER HI 
Private Bonded Warehouse 

21. Application for permit. — (1) When any dealer de- 
sires to have a private bonded warehouse he shall present 
a written application in Form E10 to the Commissioner 
giving therein the details of the location of the room or 
building to be utilised as warehouse and giving the 
sketch thereof. 

(2) The warehouse shall have only one entrance with 
double lock system, one key of which shall be retained 
by the Head of Revenue Office of the Taiuka in which 
the warehouse is situated and the other shall remain with 
the dealer. 



Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22 , 1887) 159 


22. Execution of bond and issue of permit. — When 
the above conditions are satisfied, the dealer shall exe- 
cute with the Commissioner a bond in Form Ell bind- 
ing himself to perform the conditions of the permit, 
with two sureties. The bond shall be for an amount not 
exceeding to one and half times the amount of the duty 
payable on the liquor deposited in the warehouse. There- 
upon permit in Form E12 shall be issued by the Com- 
missioner. 

23. Use of the warehouse. — The warehouse shall be 
for the sole use of the dealer for warehousing liquor 
manufactured or imported under bond. 

24. Warehouse register, — The dealer shall maintain a 
warehouse register in the form prescribed by the Com- 
missioner under rule 120, in which he shall enter on the 
same day full details of all liquor received and delivered 
in and from the warehouse. Likewise all the details re- 
garding the liquor removed and the amount of duty paid 
shall be noted therein. The names and addresses of the 
dealers or the persons to whom they are sold shall also 
be mentioned therein. 

25. Permit fee. — Tire holder of the permit will save 
to pay in advance for each bonded warehouse a fee of 
Rs. 50 per year. 

26. Cancellation of permit. — The Commissioner may, 
in the manner indicated in Section 16, cancel the permit 
for the warehouse, if the holder thereof is found to have 
committed a breach of the conditions and rules and upon 
such cancellation, all liquor warehouses therein must be 
removed as the Commissioner directs and no abatement 
of duty shall be made in respect of any such liquor for 
deficiency, quantity or strength, after notice of the can- 
cellation has been given to the dealer. 

27. Verification of liquor before warehousing. — All 
liquor brought for warehousing shall be produced to the 
officer in charge of the warehouse together with the per- 
mit or certificate and it shall be checked in his presence; 
thereupon the quantity and description of the liquor, 
marks and numbers of the packages and the number and 
date of permit or certificate shall be entered in the ware- 
house register. 

28. Removal of liquor. — No liquor shall be removed 
from the warehouse except on payment of duty or when 
so permitted by the Commissioner for removal to another 
warehouse or for export from the Territory. 

29. How long the liquor may be kept in the ware- 
house. — Any liquor warehoused can be kept therein for 
a period of three years from the date on which it was 
first warehoused. 

30. Payment of duty on liquor not accounted for . — 
The dealer shall be liable to pay duty on any liquor not 
accounted for in the warehouse to the satisfaction of the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner. 

31. Prohibition of certain Acts. — The warehouse 
permit holder or the warehouse keeper or any person in 
their employ shall not, 

(a) after the approval of the warehouse make any 
alteration therein without the previous consent 
of the Commissioner, or 

Cb) warehouse in or remove from a warehouse any 
liquor otherwise than as provided by these 
rules, or 

(c) privately remove or conceal any liquor either 
before or after it is warehoused. 


CHAPTER TV 

Import, Export, Transport and Possession of Dena- 
tured Spirit and Rectified Spirit or Absolute 
Alcohol 

Denatured Spirit 
Import 

32. Application for permit . — Any person holding a 
licence for selling denatured spirit wholesale or Regi- 
mental Units of the armed services of India or Govern- 
ment Departments, may import it into the Territory, 
only on payment of duty. The provision of rule 9 shall 
be applicable matatis mutandis for issue of permit. 

33. Procedure on arrival.— On receipt of the consign- 
ment the importer shall at once notify its arrival to the 
Excise Inspector of the Taluka in which his licensed pre- 
mises are situated and shall allow him to check the con- 
signment and to examine and test the contents or take 
sample thereof for test. 


If the spirit imported is not sufficiently denatured it 
will be denatured afresh by the importer at. his expense 
in the presence of Excise Inspector. 

Export 

34. Export.— Provision of rules 12 and 13 shall be 
applicable mutatls mutandis for export of denatured 
spirit. 

Transport 

35. Transport from one place to another. — A permit 
for transport of denatured spirit under Section 5 shall 
be in Form E-7. 

Possession 

36. Permit for possession. — A permit for possession of 
denatured spirit by a person for private purposes in ex- 
cess of the quantity prescribed under Section 8 shall bo 
granted in Form E-13. 

37. Possession and use for industrial purposes . — 
Licence for the possession and use of denatured spirit 
for industrial purposes, for manufacturing varnishes, 
dyes, colours and the like, may be granted, on applica- 
tion, by the Commissioner in such quantity as he may 
determine on consideration of the requirements of the 
applicant, on payment of a yearly fee of Rs. 50. The 
licence shall be in Form E-14. 

Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 
Import 

38. Application for permit. — (1) Any person holding 
licence tor manufacture of Indian made foreign liquor 
or for selling wholesale rectified spirit or absolute alcohol 
or Regimental Units of the armed services of India or 
Government Departments, may import rectified spirit or 
absolute alcohol after obtaining a permit therefor from 
the Commissioner. 

(2) The manufacturers of Indian made foreign liquor 
may import rectified spirit or absolute alcohol under 
bond, but wholesale vendors thereof shall be permitted 
to import only on prepayment of duty. 

(3) The provisions of rules 5 and 9 shall be appli- 
cable mutatis mutandis for the application of permits, 
respectively, in respect of import under bond and on 
prepayment of duty. 

(4) The duty paid in respect of rectified spirit or 
absolute alcohol sold for medical purposes by any licens- 
ed vendor to the satisfaction of Commissioner shall be 
refunded. 

Export and Transport 

39. Export and transport. — The provision of rules re- 
garding export and transport of denatured spirit shall be 
applicable to the export and transport of rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol. 

Possession 

40. Permit for possession. — A permit for possession of 
rectified spirit or absolute alcohol under Section 8 shall 
be in Form E-13. 


CHAPTER V 

Manufacture of Indian Made Foreign Liquor 

41. Licence for establishment of distillery or bre- 
wery.— (1) Any person desirous of obtaining a licence 
to establish and work a distillery or brewery for the pur- 
pose of manufacturing Indian made foreign liquor shall 
apply to the Commissioner. 

The application shall be accompanied with a challan 
for having credited into a Government Treasury a sum 
of Rs. 50 and a plan of the building with the description 
of tbe situation of the stills, apparatus, vessels and other 
utensils, as the case may be, and the estimated capacity 
of production and the cost of the project. The Com- 
missioner shall, if the Government approve, issue a 
licence in such Form as may be prescribed by the Com- 
missioner. 

42. Validity of licence .- — The licence shall be valid 
for one year and may be renewed on application by 
the Commissioner for a period not exceeding one year, 
if he is satisfied that sufficient progress has been made 
by the licensee to establish the distillery or brewery. If, 
within the currency of the licence, the licensee does not 
start work of manufacturing the liquor, the licence shall 
be cancelled. 



160 


THE GAZETTE OF iNtffA, NOVEMBER 1$, 1965 (KARTTKA 22 , 1887) [Part IH-Sec. 3 


43. Licence for manufacture. —-The licensee before 
starting the manufacture of liquor for which the licence 
is issued, shall apply to the Commissioner for the licence 
for manufacture with a certificate from health officer 
that there is no objection to the work being carried on 
at the place, and a full description of the changes, if 
any, made either in the building or the plant shall be 
furnished. The Assistant Excise Commissioner or other 
officer duly authorised by him in this behalf shall inspect 
the plant and if he finds it according to the plan, snail 
forward the application to the Commissioner who shall 
issue licence for manufacture in Form E-15 on payment 
of fee set forth in the Schedule. The licence may be 
renewed every year on payment of the fee due before 
the expiry of the currency of the licence. 

44. Noxious Materials not to be used. — The materials 
to be used in distilling shall be of good quality, ahd no 
ingredients noxious to health shall be used in distillation 
or be put into the spirits stored in the distillery. 

45. Supervision of distillery. — The distillery or bre- 
wery shall be under the immediate supervision of the 
inspecting officer appointed by the Commissioner for the 
purpose. 

46. Accounts to be kept. — (1) Manufacturers shall 
keep regular account in the forms prescribed by the 
Commissioner and such accounts shall, at all times, be 
open for inspection by the inspecting officer or by any 
other officer of the Excise Department authorised in this 
behalf by the Commissioner. 

(2) Spirits in the distillery shall at all time be open 
to gauging and proof by any of the officers referred to 
in sub-rule (l). 

47. Distillers to account for deficiency in stock.— 
An account shall be taken of the distillers’ stocks at such 
intervals, not exceeding three months, and in such man- 
ner as the Assistant Excise Commissioner may direct; 
and the distillers shall pay such duty as may be levied, 
from time to time, on all spirits which could not be 
accounted for, to the satisfaction of the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner, in excess of an allowance for wastages 
which may from time to time, be specified by notifica- 
tion in the Official Gazette. Wastage for the purpose of 
collection of duty on the excess as aforesaid shall be 
calculated at the end of every twelve months from the 
date on which a licence comes into force : 

Provided that, if it is proved to the satisfaction of the 
Assistant Excise Commissioner, or of such officer as he 
may appoint, that any deficiency in excess of the margin 
could not have been prevented by the exorcise of proper 
care and precaution, the payment of duty on such defici- 
ency may be waived. 

48. Lights in Distilleries, etc - -The use by the dis- 
tillers or his servants of naked lights of any description 
within the distillery is prohibited. 

49. Permanent Guard, — (1) There shall be a perma- 
nent Excise Guard in the distillery or brewery, whose 
salary shall be credited into the Government Treasury 
by the owner of the distillery or brewery. 

(2) If a distillery or brewery is established at a place 
where suitable quarters for the Guard of the distillery or 
brewery are not available in the neighbourhood or are 
not available for rent at reasonable rates, the manufac- 
turer shall provide quarters to such Guard with such 
accommodation as the Commissioner may approve. 

50. Liquor to be gauged and proved before removal . — 
No liquor shall be removed from the distillery or bre- 
wery until it has been gauged and proved by the inspect- 
ing officer. The gauging of liquor may be made either 
by actual measurement or by weighment 

51. Removal of liquor. — No liquor shall be removed 
from the distillery or brewery otherwise than for ware- 
housing or from any warehouse except on payment of 
duty or, when so permitted by the Commissioner, for 
export from the Territory. 

52. Sale by manufacturers. — The licence for manufac- 
ture of Indian made foreign liquor shall cover the right 
to sell it only to licensed wholesale vendors. No addi- 
tional licence for wholesale sales shall be necessary. 


CHAPTER VI 

Bottlino & Blending of Liquor 

53. Conditions for licence, — (1) No bottling of any 
liquor shall be permitted except under a licence issued 
by the Commissioner. 

(2) The licence shall he granted only to persons hold- 
ing a licence for sale of such liquor or to a licensed 
manufacturer thereof, on application to the Commis- 
sioner, stating the nature of the operation he desires to 

erform and the premises where such operations are to 
e performed. 

(3) The Commissioner shall issue the licence in Form 
E-16 on payment of the fee set forth in the Schedule 
and it may be renewed every year on payment of fee 
before expiry of the currency of the licence. No licence 
fee shall be payable for bottling of country liquor where 
it is done without blending thereof. 

(4) When any operations of bottling are to be carried 
on by a licensee, he shall give at least three days advance 
notice to the Head of Revenue Office in whose jurisdic- 
tion the premises are situated. 

Blending of Country Liquor 

54. Conditions for licence . — Any licensed vendor of 
country liquor desirous of blending thereof shall apply 
for licence to the Commissioner. The provisions of 
the rules regarding the bottling of liquor shall be appli- 
cable to the blending of country liquor. 


CHAPTER VII 
Tree Tapping 

55. Conditions for tapping.— (1) No coconut tree, 
date tree, cajuri or other palm tree shall be tapped 
unless a licence therefor has been obtained from the 
Head of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which the 
trees are situated, and the trees have been marked and 
numbered in the manner specified in rule 61. The tree 
tax may be paid in monthly instalments and the first 
instalment shall be paid in advance before the licence is 
issued. When the trees to be tapped belong to the Gov- 
ernment, the correspdnding tree rent shall be paid along- 
wlth the first instalment of the tree tax. 

(2) The tapping by a licensed tapper before the trees 
have been marked and numbered in toe manner so speci- 
fied, shall be deemed as a tapping without licence. How- 
ever, in case if renewal of licence the tapping during the 
first two months without the trees being marked and 
numbered, shall not constitute an offence. 

(3) The preparatory work and tapping of the trees 
non-marked and non-numbered during the first month of 
the licence shall not also constitute an offence. 

(4) All expenses for marking and numbering the trees 
shall be borne by the Government. 

56. Procedure for licence. — (1) Any tapper desiring 
to tap the trees and draw toddy therefrom shall fill in a 
declaration in Form E-17, in triplicate, which shall be 
signed by him and countersigned by the owner of the 
trees or his nominee in token of his consent to trees 
being tapped. No countersignature is necessary in respect of 
trees belonging to the Government. 

(2) The Form shall' contain the following parti- 
culars : — 

(a) Name and address of the toddy tapper; 

(b) Name of the property in which the trees are 
situated as well as its registration number; 

(c) Number of trees to be tapped; 

(d) Period of licence; 

(e) Name of the owner of the trees. 

(3) The declaration referred to in the preceding sub- 
rule shall be countersigned by the Excise Guard of the 
area who shall fill in the main part of the challan in 
Form E-18 and hand it over to the tapper together with 
the declaration. Both the forms shall he presented by 
the tapper to the Taluka Revenue Office at least 8 days 
before the commencement of the tapping. 

(4) The Taluka Revenue Office on receipt of both 
the forms, shall after tallying one with the other, fill in 
the remaining parts of the challan in Form E-18 and re- 
turn to the tapper the part of the challan corresponding 
to the first monthly instalment of the tax for the pay- 
ment thereof in the Treasury. 



t*ART III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 21 , 1887) 161 


(5) On payment of the first instalment of the tax, a 
licence in Form E-19 shall be issued by the Head of the 
Taluka Revenue Office, and handed over to the tapper 
together with the two copies of the declaration in Form 
E-17. One of the copies shall be given to the Excise 
Guard of the area and the other kept by the tapper in 
his possession. 

(6) The licences issued shall be entered in serial 
order in a register in such form as may be prescribed 
by the Commissioner. 

(7) All the challans issued during the day shall be 
entered in a daily sheet in Form E-20 and its total 
amount shall be checked with the total sum received in 
the Treasury. 

57. Substitution of trees during the currency of 
licence.— When a tree dies or does not produce toddy 
during the currency of licence, it may be substituted by 
another one, under a fresh declaration in Form Model 
E-17 in which the cause of the substitution shall be indi- 
cated. The procedure fpr filling in and furnishing of 
declaration shall be the same as prescribed in sub-rules 

(1), (2) and (3) of rule 56. The markings and the 
numbers on the trees so substituted shall be the same 
as painted on the trees substituted for. The markings 
and the numbers on the trees substituted for shall be 
cancelled with diagonal lines. 

58. Abandoning of tapping. — ( 1 ) If the tapper desires 
to abandon the tapping totally or partially during the 
currency of the licence, he shall follow the same proce- 
dure as prescribed in sub-rules (1), (2) and (3) of rule 
56, filling in a declaration in Form E-17 at least 8 days 
before the tapping Is intended to be abandoned. No 
countersignature of owner is necessary therein. 

(2) When the tapping has been abandoned totally or 
partially, the respective challan in Form E-18 and the 
licence shall be cancelled. If the tapping is abandoned 
partially, new challan in Form E-18 shall be filled in for 
the payment of the remaining instalments of the tax and 
the licence altered accordingly, 

59. Licence to tap trees in addition to trees already 
licensed. — When the tapper desires to tap trees in addi- 
tion to the trees for which licence has been already issu- 
ed, he shall fill in a further declaration in Form E-17 
and an additional licence shall be issued after observing 
the procedure set forth in sub-rules (1) to (5) of rule 
56. 

60. Renewal of licence. — For renewal of licence, the 
tapper shall follow the same procedure as prescribed in 
sub-rules (1), (2) and (3) of rule 56, filling in a de- 
claration in Form E-17 at least 8 days before the expiry 
of the licence. 

61. Marking and numbering of 'the trees. — The trees 
to be tapped shall be marked and numbered by the Ex- 
cise Guard of the area with the numbers mentioned in 
the respective licence. The numbers shall be villagewise 
and painted every year. 

62. The number of trees that can be tapped by a per- 
son when the toddy is used to be drunk as such. — When 
a person desires to tap date-trees or cajuris to draw toddy 
therefrom for his and his family’s own use to drink as 
such, the number of trees for which licence is to be 
granted shall not exceed five and shall be fixed by the 
Head of Revenue Office in accordance with the number 
of members of the tapper's family. 

Tree-Rent 

63. Rent . — When the trees sought to be tapped belong 
to the Government, a tree rent shall be paid by the 
tapper at the rate of Rs. 2 for coconut tree and Re. 1 for 
other trees per each month of tapping. 

Penalties 

64. Fines.— ( 1 ) The fine imposed under Section 30, 
for tapping the trees or drawing toddy therefrom without 
licence, shall Dot exceed five rupees per tree and for each 
month of tapping. 

(2) If any instalment of the tree tax Is not paid 
within the month in which it is due, the tapper shall be 
liable to pay a penalty of Re, l for each tree in addi- 
tion to the tax due. If he fails to pay the fine and the 
tax due up to 15th day of the next following month the 
licence shall, unless the Commissioner grants an exten- 
sion of time, be deemed as cancelled on the next follow- 
ing day and the Excise Guard of the area shall be in- 


formed accordingly in order to cancel the numbers 
marked on the respective trees. Fresh application for 
licence shall not be accepted from the tapper until the 
arrears of tree-tax together with the fine are paid. 

(3) If any tree belonging to the Government dies 
from over-tapping or careless tapping, either during the 
currency of the licence or within six months after its 
expiry, the tapper shall be liable to pay such compensa- 
tion as may be fixed by the Commissioner. The amount 
of compensation shall not exceed Rs. 75 for a coconut 
tree and Rs. 15 for other palm-trees. 

Manufacture of Country Liquor from Toddy 

65. Entitlement to manufacture. — Only licensed toddy 
tappers are entitled to manufacture country liquor from 
toddy drawn from the trees for which he holds the 
licence. 

66. Application for licence . — ( 1 ) The tapper desirous 
to manufacture liquor shall declare in Form E-17 the 
number of stills he proposes to work. 

(2) The licence fee for manufacture shall be paid 
together with the first instalment of the tree-tax and the 
licence for tapping shall refer to the number of stills he 
is licensed to work. 

(3) A tapper having licence for tapping trees in two 
adjoining Talukas, shall declare in Form E-17 in which 
Taluka he shall work the stills. 

(4) The licensee shall not work any still unless he 
declares to the Excise Guard of the area, the exact places 
where he intends to manufacture and store the liquor. 

67. Strength of liquor.— The strength of liquor shall 
not exceed 20% under proof. The manufacturer shall 
not store the liquor manufactured by him in his residen- 
tial premises, unless under a permit granted, on applica- 
tion, by the Head of Revenue Office. 

The licence for manufacture of liquor covers the right 
to sell it, but the liquor can be sold only to the licensed 
liquor vendors or licensed buyers, on payment of duty. 

68. Keeping of register. — The licensee shall keep a 
register in which he shall give the following parti- 
culars - 

(1) Quantity of juice produced; 

(2) Quantity of juice utilised for manufacture of 
liquor; 

(3) Quantity of juice used for other purposes; 

(4) Quantity and strength of liquor produced; 

(5) Quantity of liquor sold; and 

(6) Name and address of the buyer. 

69. Removal of liquor. — The tapper shall not remove 
or transport liquor from the place of storage without 
transit permit in Form 21 issued by the Excise Guard of 
the area and unless the duty is paid. 


CHAPTER VIII 

Manufacture of Liquor from Cashew Juice 

70. Extraction of juice. — -(1) The juice from the 
cashew fruit shall be extracted only under the authority 
of a licence in Form E-22 granted by the Head of 
Revenue Office of the Taluka in which the cashew 
groves are situated. 

(2) The application for the licence shall contain the 
following particulars : — 

(i) Name of the owner or the tenant of the cashew 
groves; 

(ii) Name of the groves and their situation; 

(iii) Probable quantity of the juice he expects to 
produce. 

71. Mode of selection of licensee . — The licence for 
the manufacture of liquor from cashew juice shall be 
granted on the basis of an auction to be held in the fol- 
lowing manner : 

( 1 ) Every year there shall be an auction of the right 
to manufacture liquor from cashew juice in relation to 
any zone or zones, as between bidders who undertake 
to manufacture the maximum quantity of liquor from 
that zone. 



162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


(2) The licence shall be granted to the bidder who 
undertakes to manufacture the highest quantity of liquor 
of 20 per cent under proof or corresponding quantity of 
lesser strength. 

(3) Every bidder shall deposit, as soon as may be, 
after his bid is accepted, a security for an amount cor- 
responding to 10 per cent of the total amount of duty 
payable on the quantity of liquor undertaken to be pro- 
duced by him. 

(4) Where the quantity of liquor produced by the 
licensee falls short of the maximum undertaken to 
be produced by him, the security amount or such part 
of it, as may be determined by the Commissioner shall 
be forfeited to the Government unless the Government, 
for reasons to he recorded in writing, waives the for- 
feiture. 

(5) The bidder shall also deposit in the Treasury 
the amount of duty payable on the quantily of liquor 
undertaken by him to be produced. The Commissioner 
rnay, for reasons to be recorded in writing, permit 
payment of duty in instalments not exceeding four. 

72. Procedure for auction.— (1) A notice announcing 
the hour and the date on which the auction shall be held 
shall be published in the Government Gazette and in 
local newspapers at least 15 days before the date fixed 
for auction. 

(2) The auction shall be held before a Committee 
consisting of : 

(1) the Commissioner; 

(ii) the Assistant Excise Commissioner; and 

(iii) the Excise Officer. 

In the absence of any member, the Commissioner shall 
nominate the officer who shall substitute for the absentee 
member. 

When the Commissioner is absent the Assistant Excise 
Commissioner shall take his place. 

(3) For the purposes of the auction, air the cashew 
groves shall be grouped into zones and the minimum 
quantity of liquor to be produced from each zone may 
be fixed if the Commissioner considers it necessary. 

(4) No bidder shall be admitted to the auction unless 
he makes a deposit, as earnest money, of the amount not 
exceeding Rs, 100/-, before the commencement of the 
auction for each zone. At the close of the auction the 
deposits made by the unsuccessful bidders shall be 
returned to them. 

(5) If no bidder appears for the first auction or the 
offer is not accepted for the reasons specified in the next 
succeeding sub-rule, the auction shall be held for a 
second time after due notice has been published in the 
newspapers at least 8 days before the date fixed for auc- 
tion, Thereafter, if the zones still remain unbidded. 
they shall be disposed of by tender or otherwise at the 
descretion of the Commissioner subject to approval of 
the Government. 

(6) The Committee conducting the auction may at 
its discretion, refuse to accept the bid of any person 
on the ground that it is too low, or that such person has 
been convicted by a criminal Court or has previously 
been guilty of a breach of the conditions of a contract 
under the Act. 

(7) If the highest bid is accepted by the Committee 
it shall be recorded and the signature of the" bidder 
taken on the bidders list in token of his offer of that 
bid. No bid shall be allowed thereafter. 

(8) On failure of any successful bidder to comply 
with the provisions of the preceding sub-rules, the 
deposit made by him shall be forfeited and new auction 
shall be held after due notice has been published in the 
newspapers at least five days before the date fixed for 
auction. Any loss caused to the Government by reason 
of the fresh auction shall be recoverable from the bidder 
as an arrear of land revenue, 

73. Licence for manufacture of liquor, — After the 
duty has been deposited, the successful bidder shall dec- 
lare within five days therefrom to the Head of the res- 
pective Revenue Office the number of stills and the place 
where he shall work them. On payment of licence fee 
for the working of the stills and on approval of the 
place where he shall work them, the Head of Revenue 
Office shall grant him a licence in Form E23. 


74. Warehousing of liquor. — All stills of each zone 
shall be established and worked at only one place which 
shall bo of easy access and where a house or a room is 
available nearby for warehousing the liquor. The ware- 
house shall be under double lock system, one key of 
which shall be retained by the licensee and the other by 
the Excise Guard of the area. All the liquor as soon as 
produced shall be removed to the warehouse. 

75. Payment of duty. — The duty deposited shall be 
adjusted towards the amount of duty on liquor actually 
produced and when the amount of the duty assessed on 
such liquor exceeds the duty deposited, the licensee shall 
pay into the Treasury the amount of such excess over 
the duty deposited. If, on the other hand, the duty 
deposited exceeds the duty so assessed, the excess shall 
be refunded. 

76, Buying or selling of juice. — (1) The licensee 
shall be bound to buy the cashew juice for the price 
fixed by file Government at the place where he is 
authorised to work the stills for the manufacture of 
liquor. If he refuses to buy the juice or delays the 
buying in consequence of which the juice is damaged 
beyond its use for distillation, he shall be ordered by 
the Assistant Excise Commissioner to pay the price of 
the juice to the owner thereof and pay into a Govern- 
ment treasury, as a penalty, a sum not exceeding 
Rs. 100/- within 8 days from the date of the order, 
failing which the Commissioner shall cancel the licence 
and confiscate the liquor in store. The price of the 
juice shall be paid to the owner thereof from the proceeds 
of the confiscated liquor. 

When the licence is cancelled in such cases, the Com- 
missioner shall dispose of such zones for the distillation 
of liquor in the remaining period at his discretion subject 
to approval of the Government. 

(2) If the owner of the juice mixes or permits to 
be mixed with the juice any substance or water to 
augment its quantity, he shall be liable to a penalty not 
exceeding Rs. 50/- to be levied by the Head of the 
Revenue Office, in such case the licensed manufacturer 
may refuse to buy the juice. 

(3) The owner or tenant of cashew groves is not 
bound to extract the juice from the cashew fruit, but 
once he extracts juice therefrom he is bound to sell it 
to the licensed manufacturer of the zone for the price 
fixed by the Government, unless he declares to and is 
authorised by the Head of the Revenue Office to use it 
for purposes other than the distillation of liquor. The 
breach of the provision of this rule shall render the 
owner of the juice liable to a penalty not exceeding 
Rs. 100/- to be levied by the Head of the Revenue 
Office. 

77, Diversion of liquor from one zone to the other. — 
The transport or removal of the cashew juice produced 
in the area of one zone to the area of the other zone is 
strictly prohibited. The breach of the provision of this 
rule shall render the owner of the juice liable to a 
penalty not exceeding Rs. 100/- to be levied by the Head 
of the Revenue Office. 

78. Keeping of register. — (1) The licensed manu- 
facturer shall keep a register containing the following 
particulars : 

(i) Name of the cashew grove, if any; 

(ii) Name of the owner or tenant of the cashew 

grove; 

(iii) Registration number of the grove; 

(iv) Quantity of cashew juice received from cashew 
grove; 

(v) Quantity and strength of liquor produced In 
respect of each grove. 

(2) The register shall be submitted to the respective 
Taluka Revenue Office by the licensee not later than 
the end of June of the year for which the licence is 
granted. The breach of this rule, shall render the licensee 
liable to a penalty not exceeding Rs. 100/- to be levied 
by the Head of the Revenue Office. 

79, Utensils , measures and testing instrument. —The 
licensed manufacturer shall possess all the utensils 
necessary for distillation including ^alcoholometer* of 
Gay-Lussac and measure of litres and its multiples, The 
breach of this rule shall render the licensee liable to a 
penalty not exceeding Rs. 100/- to be levied by the Head 
of Revenue Office. 




Part III— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


163 


80. Strength of liquor. — The strength of liquor pro- 
duced shall not exceed 20% under proof. 

81. To whom the manufacturer can sell. — The licence 
for manufacture covers the right to sell the liquor only 
to licensed liquor vendors or licensed buyers. 

82. Register of sale. — The licensee shall keep also 
a register of sale in which he shall enter the name and 
address of the buyer, quantity and strength of liquor sold 
and the date on which sale took place, 

83. Removal of liquor^—No liquor shall be removed 
from tha warehouse or transported therefrom unless 
under a transit permit issued by the Excise Guard of 
the area. 

84. Disposal of liquor. — The licensed manufacturer 
shall dispose of the liquor stored in the warehouse 
before the end of December of the year for which the 
licence has been granted, unless he obtains licence or 
permit for sale or possession as the case may he. 

85. Licence for manufacture of liquor from juice of 
sugar-cane, pineapples, etc. — The licence for manufac- 
ture of liquor from juice of sugar-cane, pineapple, etc. 
or any other fruit or raw material shall he granted by 
the Commissioner on such terms or conditions as he may 
specify subject to approval of the Government. 


CHAPTER IX 

Import, Export, Transport and Possession of Country 
Liquor 

Import or Export 

86. Import or Export of country liquor.- — A licence to 
import or export country liquor into or from the Territory 
shall be in Form E2. 

87. Application for permit. — When any person desires 
to import or export country liquor into or from the Terri- 
tory, he shall present a written application to the Commis- 
sioner containing mutatls mutandis the particulars prescrib- 
ed for the import or export, as the case may be, of Indian 
made foreign liquor. The permit may be granted if there 
are no reasons to refuse the same. 

Transport 

88. Transport of country liquor— A permit for transport 
of country liquor under section 5 shall be granted in 
Form E7. 

89. Permit for possession beyond limit of retail sale . — 

(1) Any person desirous of obtaining a permit for the 
possession of country liquor under section 8 shall make an 
application in Form E8 stating : 

(a) the quantity required and the date on which it 

is to be purchased: 

(b) the occasion which ronders the purchase neces- 
sary; 

(c) the place where the liquor is to be consumed, 

(2) The permit shall be granted in Form E9. 


CHAPTER X 
Licences for Sale 

Licences for Wholesale and Retail Sale of any Liquor other 
than Denatured and Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 

90. Application and procedure for licence. — (1) Any 
person desirous of obtaining licence for wholesale or retail 
sale of any liquor other than denatured and rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol shall present an application to the Com- 
missioner stating the particulars of the place and the pre- 
mises where he intends to start the business, the distance 
between those premises and those of other licensed liquor 
vendors or temples or schools. 

(21 When the Commissioner, after making such inquiry 
and hearing such authorities as he thinks neecssarv, is satis- 
fied that there Is no objection, he shall sanction the issue 
of licence, 

(31 On receint of the sanction, the Head of the Reve- 
nue Office in whose lurisdiction the premises of the appli- 
cant are situated shall issue licence in Form E24 for 
wholesale and in Form E25 for retail sale. 

(41 The licence fee set forth in the Schedule shall he 
paid bv the licensee in two equal instalments, first, before 
Issue of licence and the second in the first month of the 
second semester of the financial year. 


(5) When the business is started in the course of the 
second semester only half of the annual fee shall be pay- 
able. 

(61 The Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that the 
financial conditions of licensee so requires, authorise the 
retail vendors to pay the fee in four equal instalments, each 
in the first month of each quarter of the financial year. 

91. Period of licence and its renewal. — -Licences for sale 
other than occasional licences shall ordinarily be granted for 
three years ending with the third financial year. The 
application for renewal shall be made within 1 5 days before 
the expiry of the licence. No sanction of the Commis- 
sioner is required for the renewal of licence. In the case 
of renewal the first instalment shall be paid in advance 
before the licence is renewed. 

92. Occasional licences. — -Occasional licences for the 
retail sale of Indian made foreign liquor shall be granted 
only for stalls in connection with public entertainments 
of a temporary nature and such other public gatherings. 
The licences shall be issued by the Head of the Revenue 
Office in whose jurisdiction the stalls are established, on 
payment of the respective fee fixed in the Schedule. 

Licences for Wholesale and Retail Sale of Denatured Spirit 
and Rectified Spirit or Absolute Alcohol 

93. Licence for wholesale and retail sale. — Licence for 
wholesale or retail sale of denatured spirit and rectified 
spirit or absolute alcohol shall be issued by the Head 
of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which the premises 
of the vendor are situated with the previous sanction of 
the Commissioner. The rules 90 and 91 mutatis mutan- 
dis shall be applicable in respect of application for licence 
and payment of the fee thereof. The licences for whole- 
sale or retail sale of rectified spirit or absolute alcohol 
shall be granted only to chemists and druggists. 

94. Bottling.— The licence for wholesale sale shall cover 
right to bottle denatured or rectified spirit or absolute 
alcohol. The provision of rule 53(4) shall be applicable 
for the bottling thereof. 

95. Limit of retail sale.- — The limit of retail sale of 
denatured and rectified spirit or absolute alcohol to an 
individual for private purposes shall not exceed respec- 
tively, six and two quart bottles. 

General Provisions 

96. Prohibition of sale.—( 1) No licensed vendor and 
no person in the employ of a vendor and acting on his 
behalf shall sell or deliver any liquor : — 

(a) to drivers and conductors of motor buses, taxies 
and lorries, when on duty, or 

(b) to persons known or believed to be intoxicated, 
or 

(c) to persons known or suspected to be about to 
take part in a riot or disturbance of the public 
place. 

(2) No liquor shall be sold in exchange of any com- 
modity or article or any other goods. 

(3) No person shall pay salary, totally or partially, to 
any worker or labourer in form of liquor. 

97. Warehouses for licensed vendors. — -No licensed 1 
vendor shall establish warehouse for storage of liquor at 
places other than the premises on which he is licensed to 
sell liquor, without the permit issued by the Head of 
Revenue Office of the Taluka in which such premises are 
situated. No warehouse other than bonded warehouse 
shall be permitted to establish in Taluka other than that 
io which such premises are situated. No warehouse shall 
have any connecting link with residential premises. 

98. Prohibition of employment by the licensee. — No 
licensed vendor shall employ on his licensed premises, 
persons : 

(a) Under the age of 18 years, or 

(b) Suffering an infectious disease, 

99. Days and hours during which licensed premises may 
he kept open. — -(1) The licensed premises for sale of 
liquor may he kept open only 9 hrs, to 21 hrs. The retail 
vendors may be authorised by the Head of Revenue Office 
to keep open their premises up to 23 hrs. on payment of 
additional licence fee, set forth in the Schedule : 

Provided that the Government may allow the sale of 
liquor after the prescribed hours for special reasons or 
in special cases. 



164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


(2) The vendor shall keep closed his licensed premises 
for sale of liquor other than the Hotels, Restaurants and 
Clubs, one day in every week at his choice after the 
approval by the Head of Revenue Office. The day of 
closure shall be indicated in the licence. 

100. Licensed premises for sale of liquor shall not have 
connecting link with residential premises. — No licensed 
premises for sale of liquor shall have any connecting link 
with residential premises. 

101. Accounts of transactions. — Every licensed vendor 
shall keep true account of the daily transactions stating : 

(a) Quantity and strength of liquor purchased or 
taken into the premises for sale; 

(b) Quantity and strength of liquor sold or delivered 
or removed; 

(c) Balance at the end of each month. 

102. Persons debarred from holding licences without 
the previous sanction of the Government . — Save with the 
express permission in writing of the Government,— 

(1) No person holding or having an interest in a 
licence for the manufacture, sale or supply of foreign or 
Indian made foreign liquor in a Taluka may hold or 
possess any interest in a licence for the retail sale of 
country liquor in the same Taluka. 

(2) No person shall hold or have an interest in two 
or more shops for the wholesale or retail sale of the same 
kind of liquor in the same city or town or village, and 

(3) No person holding a licence for sale of foreign or 
Indian made foreign liquor may hold licence for sale of 
country liquor in the same premises and vice-versa. 

103. Sign-board. — A sign-board shall be affixed to the 
front of every licensed premises for sale of liquor showing 
the nature and number of licence, stating clearly whether 
the premises are licensed to sell foreign or Indian made 
foreign liquor or country liquor. The licence shall be 
hung in a conspicuous place within the premises. 

104. Transfer of shop and licence. — (1) No liquor vend 
shop shall be transferred from one licensed premises to 
another premises unless under the permission granted by 
the Commissioner. 

(2) No licence for sale of liquor shall be transferred by 
the licensee to other person unless under the permission 
granted by the Commissioner. 

(3) When the permission to transfer the shop or the 
licence is granted, the description of new premises or the 
name of transferree, as the case may be, shall be noticed 
in the licence. 


CHAPTER XI 
Miscellaneous 

Disposal of the Confiscated Articles 

105. Confiscated articles to be sent to Excise Officer . — 
When anything is confiscated under the Act, the same shall 
be made over to the Head of Revenue Office concerned. 

106. Disposal of articles, goods, things and conveyances. 
— ( 1 ) All articles or goods or things or conveyances of the 
value exceed Rs. 100/-, confiscated under the Act by 
order of a Magistrate or Commissioner or any other offi- 
cer empowered by the Government in that behalf, as the 
case may be, shall be sold by public auction by the Head 
of Revenue Office concerned. 

(2) All articles or goods or things of the value not ex- 
ceeding Ra. 5/- shall be disposed off by the Head of Reve- 
nue Office as he may think fit. 

(3) All articles, goods, things or conveyance of the 
value of Rs. 5/- to Rs. 100/- shall be disposed off by the 
Head of Revenue Office in such manner as the Commis- 
sioner may direct. 

(4) The sale by auction or otherwise of liquor, stills 
and other appliances or materials for distillation shall be 
made only to licensed dealer or manufacturers of liquor, 
as the case may be. 

(5) The proceeds of the sale or disposal shall be credit- 
ed to the Government. 

107. Sale or disposal to he deferred pending an appeal . — 
The sale or other disposal of anything confiscated under 
the Act shall be deferred till the period of appeal against 
the order of confiscation has expired, or, if an appeal has 
been made to the knowledge of the officer concerned 
against such order, then until the appeal is disposed off : 


Provided that a perishable article or an animal in res- 
pect of which no proper arrangement can be made for 
custody may be sold by public auction or disposed off, 
immediately, as the case may be, and the sale proceed 
shall be credited to the Government, refund being made 
thereof in case the appeal is admitted. 

Rewards 

108. Remarks. — (1) In any case in which a penalty or 
confiscation has been adjudged under the Act, a reward 
not exceeding half of the sale proceeds of the liquor and 
other articles confiscated plus the amount of the fine im- 
posed, if any, shall be granted in such proportions as 
the Commissioner may think fit to any person or persons 
who may have contributed to the conviction of the offender 
or to the confiscation of the property so seized : 

Provided always that aggregate amount of the reward 
thus granted in each case by the Commissioner shall not 
exceed Rs. 50/-. 

Reward exceeding Rs. 50/- will be granted by the Gov- 
ernment. 

(2) The Commissioner may incur at his discretion an 
expenditure not exceeding Rs. 25/- in each case for the 
employment of informers or for any other purpose con- 
nected with the prevention or detection of any offence under 
the Act. 

(3) Where substantive sentences of imprisonment are 
passed by Magistrates, and no fine or confiscations are rea- 
lized, rewards may be paid according to the importance 
of the case in the discretion of the Government. 

(4) Half of reward shall be given to the informer, if any, 
the remainder being distributed to the persons who actually 
co-operated in the seizure or arrest. 

(5) If there is no informer, the whole reward should 
go to the persons who actually co-operated in the seizure 
or arrest. 

(6) No reward shall be granted for officers above the 
rank of Superintendent of Excise. The reward or its share 
allotted to Government servants shall be distributed to 
them in proportion to their salaries. 

Overtime 

109. Overtime fee *— When a manufacturer or a dealer 
applies for services of an officer to supervise the removal 
from or bringing into warehouse any liquor or to check 
and verify consignment of liquor on arrival thereof in his 
licensed premises, on Sundays and public holidays and 
between 18 hrs. and 10 hrs. on other days, overtime fee 
shall be charged for such services at the rate of overtime 
allowance such officer is entitled to under service rules. 

110. Application for overtime. — The application shall be 
made to Head of Revenue Office of the Taluka in which 
the warehouse or licensed premises are situated at least 
two days before the day in which services of the officer are 
required. 

111. Payment of overtime fee. — After completion of 
overtime work, the manufacturer or dealer who applies 
for services, shall endorse the actual hours of attendance 
or service on the report the officer shall submit to the 
Head of Revenue Office concerned, and shall, thereafter, 
pay into the Government Treasury the amount of the over- 
time fee due. 

The contingency bill for the payment of overtime allow- 
ance to the officer concerned shall be accompanied with 
the report and the receipt of challan of the overtime fee 
paid into the treasury. 

Refund of Excess Duty Paid 

112. Application for refund. — Application for refund of 
duty paid shall be made to the Commissioner in which the 
particulars of the claim shall be clearly specified. When 
the Commissioner is satisfied that a refund is due, he 
shall' issue a refund voucher and hand it over to the dealer 
for encashment at the Government treasury. 

Check-posts 

113. Establishment of Check-posts. — (1) To check the 
import and export of liquor. Check-posts shall be set up at 
such places as may be found necessary by the Commis- 
sioner. 

(2) A Supervisor or an Excise Guard shall be in charge 
of the Check-post. 

(3) All vehicles shall stop at the Check-pgit gjid may 
proceed further only after clearance is given therefor by 
the Officer in charge of such Check-post, 



Pari 111- Sir. 3] 


165 


THF. GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13,-1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Control of the Administration and Powers of Officers 

114. Control of the Administration under the Act. — ( 1 ) 
Subject to the directions of the Government, the Com- 
missioner shall have control of all other officers exercis- 
ing functions under the Act. 

(2) The Assistant Excise Commissioner, subject to the 
directions of the Commissioner shall control all officers 
subordinate to him. 

(3) The Superintendent of Excise shall control the Ins- 
pectors, Supervisors and Guards subject to the control and 
direction of the Commissioner and Assistant Excise Com- 
missioner. 

Power of Officers 


FORM E 1 

[See Rule 5) 

Court fee J 
Stamp j 

Its. 10/- | 

Address in full 

Application for permit for Tmport/Transport of Indian made 
foreign liquors/rectiflod spirit/denatured spirit/country liquor. 

Date 

To, 

Tho Excise Commissioner, 

Panjim. 


115. Delegation of powers fry the Commissioner — The 
Commissioner may delegate his powers to the following 
extent, namely — 

( 1 ) To the Assistant Excise Commissioner, Head of 
Revenue Office, Inspectors and Excise Guards, power to 
Issue permits for transport of liquor or for possession of 
liqttor in excess of quantity prescribed in section 8. 

(2) To Assistant Excise Commissioner and the Head of 
the Revenue Office, power to cancel licence if any fee or 
duty payable by the holder thereof be not duly paid. 

(3) To Assistant Excise Commissioner, power to require 
from manufacturers and licensed vendor of liquor to be 
equipped wilh such measures, weights and instruments as 
he may direct. 

(4) To Head of Revenue Office, power to permit sale 
of liquor and execution of bond as prescribed in sub-section 
3 of section 21, with two securities acceptable to him. 

116. Powers and dutiet of officers.— (1) All Excise Offi- 
cers of the Union Territory not below the rank of Excise 
Inspector mav execise the powers conferred by section 
23, 24, 25 and 27. 

Provided that power to seize and detail any_ liquor 
or article or search anv nerson, vessel, vehicle, animal or 
package under section 25. mav be exercised at: the Check- 
post bv the Supervisor or the Excise Guard in charge of 
such Check-post. 

(23 All Excise Officers of the Union Tejritory including 
Excise Guards mav exercise tho powers mentioned in sec- 
tion 26, 

117. Certificate under sub-section (2) of Section 25. — A 
certificate to he given under sub-section (2) of Section 25. 
shall be in Form E 26. 

1 18. Payment of dues under the Act and the Rules.— The 
payment of duty, fees, penalties and other dues under 
the Act and these rules shall he made into the appropriate 
Government Treasury' by challan in Form E 27. 

1 1 9. Execution of the bond. — When any bond or agree- 
ment prescribed bv the Act is to be executed, it shall he 
accented on behalf of the Government either bv the Com- 
missioner or by the person specificallv authorised hv him 
in this behalf. 


Forms 

120. Forms . — The Commissioner may prescribe forms 
for any licence or permit to he issued or any application or 
statement to he submitted or any account to be maintained, 
otherwise than those, provided under these rules and mav, 
similarly, prescribe forms for registers to be maintained 
and records to he kept by Excise Officers for the purpose 
of carrying out the provisions of the Act and these 
Rules, 

121 .—Transitional rates at which duty is to be levied . — 
Until provisions are made in the Rules, the duty to he 
levied on liquor shall be at the rates set forth in the Sche- 
dule. 

Bv order and in the name of the Lieutenant Governor 
of Goa, Daman and Diu. 

T. B. NAGARAJAN 

Finance Secretary 


Sir, 

Please permit mo/us to import/transport, under bond/pre- 
payment of duty, the liquor described below from 

to * by sea/rail/road 

via Check-Post at 

Description No. of Bulk Proof Strength 

of liquor eases Litres litres 

I' hereby enclose the treasury receipt No dated 

for the excise duty of Rs 

on the aforesaid quantity. 

Yours faithfully. 

♦Name or situation of the bonded warehouse or of the licensed 
premises, in this Union Territory. 

(Delete the letters and words not applicable). 


FORM E 2 
[.See Rule 5 (3)] 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE. 


Permit No. 

Permit for Import under bond/on prepayment of duty of Indian 
nade foreign liquor/denatured spint/rectificd spirit count y 


iauor. 


To, 

The Excise Officer, 

, is/arc hereby 

auSS tSmport ' ' "Under Bond”/on prepayment of duty 
the liquor described below 


1. Quantity:— 

Description No. of 
of liquor cases 


Bulk 

Litres 


Proof Strength 

Litres 


2. From 

3, Route:— by sea/rail/road Vla check-Post at 

X Th', t nnrmit will be valid for ninety days from this date 

SnShoSd not S brSn M IK ?r?nsii and should 
be importod in one lot. 

an^xdw 'office^ and^paswdhfo^vrarehousing/consumption after 
verification. 

dated 


5. Bond No. 


.on the con- 


s > hfs'w^pmd tato the’ Government Treasury under 


Chalan No. 


.dated. 


7. Station 

S. 

Signature and designation of 
the Issuing Authority 
(Excise Commissioner) 


y to: — 

i Excise Check-post at 
I Excise Officer of M/s. 

I Excise Commissioner to tho Govcrnmen 

(Strike out whichever 


of 

not applicable) 


32BGI/65 



166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


[Part III— Sec. 3 


FORM E 3 
(See Rule 12) 


! Court fee 
I Stamp 
Rs, 10/- 


Address in full 

APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FOR EXPORT OF INDIAN- 
MADE FOREIGN LIQUOR/COUNTRY LIQUOR 

Date 

To, 

The Excise Commissioner, 

Papjlm. 

Sir, 

Please permit mo/us to export the liquor described below from 

our bonded warchouse/liconsed promises to M/s 

by soa/rail/road via Chock- 

Post at 

Description No. of Bulk Proof Strength 

of liquor cases Litres Litres 

A copy of the import permit authorising tho import into.. 
is herewith enclosed. 

The treasury receipt No dated 

for the exciso duty of Rs on the aforesaid 

quantity is also enclosed. 

Yours faithfully, 

(Delete the letters and words not applicable). 


FORME 4 
(See Rule 13) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Permit No. 


The above bonded obligor (s) being permitted to import 


remove 

from time to time conditional on the provisions of the Exciso 
Duty Act, 1964, and the Rules made thereunder being observed, 
(description of liquor) without payment of duty front the 
rest of India to Goa 


bonded warehouse situated at for export to 

The condition of this bond is that if tho obligor (s) and his/ 
their legal representatives shall observe all the provisions of 
tho Excise Duty Act, 1964, and tho Rules made theroundor, in 
respect of liquor so removed. 

imported 


And if the said liquor is duly removed and exported within 
such timo as tho Commissioner of Exciso directs; and all such 
duos whether excise duty or othor lawful charges, if any, as fixed 
by the said Commissioner and payable on the said liquor or any 

ortion or portions thereof are paid into the Government treasury 

y tho obligor(s) within ton days of tho date of demand thereof 
beirg made in writing by the said Commissioner : 

The obligation shall be void. 

Otherwise and on breach or failure in tho performance of any 
part of this condition, the santo shall be in full force. 

I/wo declare that this bond is given under the orders of the 
Government of Goa, Daman and Diu for the performance of an 
act in which tho public are interested. 

Placo 

Date 

Signature^) of obligor(s) 

(1) Surety 

(2) Surety 

Signed, sealed and delivered by tho above named in the presence 

of : 

Witnesses (1) Address fl) Occupation (1) 

f2) Address (2) Occupation (2) 

Accepted 


Permit for Export "UNDER BOND” /on prepayment of 
duty. 


Shri/Sarvashri is/aro permit- 
ted to export from tho under noted 

liquor to M/s by sea/rail/road 

as per import permit No dated 

196...., issued by the of 

Description No. of cases B.L. P.L. Strength 

of liquor. 

This pormit will be current for from 


this date and shall be earned with the consignment. 

The export should bo in one transaction. The consignment 
shall not be broken in bulk while in transit and shall not be opened 
before verification by an Exciso Officer. 

Place 

Date 

Signature and designation 
of the issuing Authority 
(Excise Commissioner). 

Copy to:— 

(1) Exciso Check-Post at 

(2) The Excise Commissioner of 

a request to return this permit to the Excise Commis- 
sioner, I’anjim, Goa, within ten days of the arrival of tho 
consignment at destination. 

The result of the verification may be noted on tiro back. 
(Strike out whichever not applicable). 


FORME 5 
(See Rule 17) 

GENERAL BOND (WITH SURETIES) FOR THE 
DIJ E DESPATCH OF LIQUOR REMOVED FROM 
TIME TO TIME FOR IMPORT/EXPORT ° 
WITHOUT PAYMENT OF DUTY 

(Delete the letters and words not applicable) 

Two 

.[hereinafter called the obligor Vs)) and'. ! 

o* and of 

and wv'e'ra^ bound to t6e r president C ofLadIa?n*tho sum of° J °* 

rupees to be paid to the President of India, for whkh payment 
tve jointly and severally bind ourselves and our legal reprwentahves 


Panjim, 


196 


Excise Commissioner 


FORM E 6 
(.See Rule 17) 

SPECIAL BOND (WITH SURETIES) FOR THE DUE 
DESPATCH OF LIOUOR REMOVED FROM TIME 
TO TIME FOR IMPORT/EXPORT 
WITHOUT PAYMENT OF DUTY 

(Dolcto the letters and words not applicable) 

I/wo of 

. . jhercinafter called the obligor (s)] and 

of and of 

[hereinafter called the sureties are jointly 

and severally bound to the President of India in the sum of . . . . 

rupees to bo paid to the President of India, for 

which payment we jointly and severally bind ourselves and our 
legal representatives. 

The above bonded obligor (s) being permitted to import 

export 

(description of liquoi) without payment of duty from (Name 


of Distillery) 


bonded 
Subject to the provi- 


wurchouse situated at to 

sions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and tho Rules make there- 
under. 

The condition of this bond is that if the obligor(s) and his/ 
their legal representatives shall observe all the provisions of the 
Excise Duty Act, 1964, and tho Rules made thereundor, in respect 
liquor so romovod. 

imported 

And if the said liquor is duly- ——————— within 

removed and exported 

such time as the Commissioner of Excise directs; and all such 
dues whether excise duty or other lawful charges., if any, as 
fixed by the said Commissioner and payablo on the said liquor 
or any portion or portions thereof are paid into the Government 
treasury by the obligor(s) within ten days of the date of demand 
thereof being made in writing by tho said Commissioner; 

Tfre obligation shall be void. 

Otherwise and on breach or failure in the performance of any 
part of this condition, the same shall be in full force. 



167 


Part III— Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 1 1 , 1$65 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 


Shri is hereby 

permitted to possess Indian made foreign liquor/country liquor 
in privileged quantity of to be pur- 
chased from. for the purpose 

of for the period from 

to ,to be consumed at subject 

to the provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and (he rules made 
thereunder. 

The 


I/we declare that his bond is given under the orders of the 
Government of Goa, Daman and Diu for the pcrfotmancc of 
an act in which the public are interested. 

Place 

Date 

Signal ute(s) of obligor(s) 

(1) Surety 

(2) Surety- 

Signed, sealed and delivered by the above named in the presence 
of : 


Witnesses (1) Address (1) Occupation (1) 

(2) Address (2) Occupation (2) 

Accepted 

Panjim 196 


Excise Commissioner. 


FORM E 7 
(See Rules 19, 35) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DITJ 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Permit foi transport of duty paid Indian made foreign liquor 
denatured spirit/rcclified spirit. 

No 

Shri/Sarvashri 

is/hre permitted to transport from 

the undermentioned liquors to 

by road/rail/watcr. 


Name ofliquor No. of cases Bulk litres Proof litres 


TOTAL 

This permit will be valid for..., days from the date 

of issue and should always be carried along with the consign- 
men t. 

Place 

Date 

Licensing Authority. 

Copy to:— 

Excise Check-Post at 

Excise Inspector at 


FORM E 10 
(See Rule 21) 

Court fee ! 
Stamp ' 
Ro. 1 ; 

APPLICATION FOR LICENCE FOR A PRIVATE 
BONDED WAREHOUSE 
To, 

The Excise Commissioner, 

Panjim. 

Sir, 

t/wc ...residing at Taluka. 

request that I/wc may be granted aliccnee for the use of the premises 

the accompanying 

described below as a private bonded warehouse during the 

may be renewed for 

year ending tbo 31st March 196 

2. 1/we agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the licence 
which may be granted/renewed. 

3. 1/wc hereby declare that no excise licence previously 
held by mc/us has been cancelled or suspended or has failed 
to be renewed owing to a breach of the Act and/or Rules governing 
the grant of such licence. 

4. I/wc declare that to the best of niy/our knowledge and 
belief the information furnished herein is true and complete. 

5. I/wc have enclosed the treasury receipt No dated 

for licence fee of Rs 

Place 

Date 

JSignalure(s) of the applicant^) 
Description of premises; — 

1. Village or Town or City: — 

2. Name of Road; — 

3. Sub-divisions of the Warehouse;— 

4. Inner area: — 


FORM E ti 


(See Rule 2d) 

Address in full 

Application for permit for possession of Indian 
ltquor. 


made 


The.... 

Panjim. 


Date 


Sir, 

Please grant me a permit for possession of Indian made foreign 

liquor m privileged quantity of w 

to be purchased on from M/s. . . ." 

■ ■ • to be consumed at, . . 

tor the purpose of 


Tours faithfully. 


EORM E y 


GOVERNMENT 

DEPARTMENT 


(■Sec Rule 20) 

Of GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
OF REVENUE AND TAXI S 
LXCISE 


liqour* 1 * 1 f °' lhC pobSC! ' ,sion of -(nOian made foreign liquor, an 


No. of Permit 

Date of Permit 


FORM E 1 1 
(Sec Rule 22) 

BOND (WITH SURETY) TO BE ENTERED INTO BY THE 
LICENSEE OF A PRIVATE BONDED WAREHOUSE 

I/wc of 

[hereinafter called the obligor(s)] and of 

and of (hereinafter called 

the sureties) are jointly and severally bound to the President 

of India in the sum of rupees to be paid to 

the President of India for which payment we jointly and severally 
bind ourselves and our legal representatives, 

The condition of this bond is that if the obligor (sj and his / 
their legal representatives shall observe all thcjprovisions of the 
Excise Duty Act, 1964, the rules made thereunder and permit 
to be observed in respect of a private bonded warehouse; 

And if all dues, whether duty or other lawful charges which 
shall be demandable, on the goods admitted to this warehouse 
as shown by the records of the proper Excise Officer, be dub 
paid into the treasury within ten days of the date of demand 
thereof being made in writing by the said Excise Officer; 

This obligation shall be void. 

Otherwise and on breach or failure of the performance of 
any part of this condition, the same shall be in lull force. 

We declare that this bond is given under the orders of the 
Government of Goa, Daman and Diu for the performance of 
an act in which the public are interested. 

Place 

Date 

Signatures) of obligor (>) 
Signature of sureties. 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1 887 ) [Part III-Sec. 5 


168 


Witnesses (1) Address (1) Occupation (1) 

(2) Address (21 Occupation (2) 

Place 

Date i 

Accepted. 

Pnnjim 1% » 

Excise Commissioner. 


FORM E 12 
(.See Rule 22) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND D1U 

DEPARTMENT OF REVENGE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

PERMIT FOR A PRIVATE BONDED WAREHOUSE 

The undermentioned premises belonging to Shri/Sarvashri 

of 

are hereby permitted, subject to the provisions of the Excise 
Duty Act, 1964, and the rules made thereunder, as a private 
bonded warehouse for the deposit of liquor which duty has 
not been paid. 

Situation and description of premises. 

2, This permit is granted to Shri/Sarvashri 

.... who has/have paid the prescribed 

licence fee of Rs for the current year. It is 

not transferable to any person and will remain in force until 31st 
March, 196 unless cancelled before that date. 

3. This permit may be suspended or cancelled or its renewal 
may be refused if any declaration made or information 
given in the application thereof is found to be false or if any under- 
taking given in such application is not carried out. 

Place 

Dale 

(Excise Commissioner). 


FORM E 15 
( See Rule 43) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND Dll) 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

licence to manufacture Indian made foreign liquor (UNDER 
BOND) fur payment of duty. 1 

Shri/Sarvashri 

of having undertaken to comply w ith the 

conditions prescribed in the Excise Duty Act, 1964’, and the 
rules made thereunder and having paid the prescribed licence 

fee of Ks is/ate hereby authorised to 

manufacture liquor sjtecificd below during the year ending 31st 

March, 196 in the premises situated at 

and described in his/their application dated 

subject to the provisions of the Act. 

This licence may be cancelled or suspended or its renewal 
may be refused, if any declaration made or information given 
in the application therefor is found to be false or if any undertaking 
given in such application is not carried out or if the licensee fails 
to comply with the provisions of the aforesaid Act and the rules 
made thereunder. 

Description of liquor: 

Place 

Dale 

licensing Authority, 
Renewal of the licence 


.Date of rcnowaJ Year for which Signature of liccn- 
renevved sing authority 


Renewal of the permit 
. _ . an d date of 

Date of treasury receipt Year for Signature of 

renewal for having paid which licensing 

the permit fee renewed authority 


FORM E 13 
(Nee Rule 36/40) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND D1U 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Permit for the possession of Denatured spiril/Rectified spirit 
or absolute alcohol. 

No. of Permit 

Date of Permit 

Shri residing 

at is hereby authorised to possess 

Denatured spirit/Rcetilied spirit in privileged quantity of 

to be purchased from 

before for tho 

purpose of subject to the provisions 

of the Excise Duty Act, 1964, and the rules made thereunder. 

The 


FORM E 14 
(See Rule 37) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Licence for the possession and use of denatured spirit tor In- 
dustrial purpose. 

Licence No 

Date of licence 


This licence authorizes Shri/Sarvashri 

residing at to possess 

and use denatured spirit for manufacturing varnishes, dyes, 

colours and the like in quantity of litres 

per year in his/their premises 

situated at subject to the 


provisions of Excise Duly Acl, 1964 and the rules made there- 
under. 

Licence fee of Rs. 50/- has been paid. 

< Excise Commissioner) 


FORM E !6 
[See Rule 53 (3)] 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DHJ 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Licence for bottling, blending. 

Licence No 

Dale of licence 

Thisliccnco authorizes Shri/Saivashri , 

residing at t>o 

bottle/blend foreign iiquor/Indian made foreign liquor/coqntry 

liquor in his/their premises situated at ....... . 

subject lo the provisions of Excise Duty 

Act, 1964, and the rules made thereunder. 

The fee of Rs has been paid. 

Tbc Excise Commissioner, 


FORM E 17 
[See Rule 56(1 )[ 

Declaration for toddy-tapping 
Tahika of Village of, 


Name of the 
y, property in 
£ fe which the 
trees are 
A a a situated 


Registration 
number of 
nmtiLc 



I 

V flf 

P-< # 


Owner. 

Tapper 


dated ,,..,196.. 

Countersigned. 

Date / / 

Owner 


Excisc-gu lid 


Tapper 



Form £ IS j 

See Ruhr 56(3) | 

covlrnment of goa, Daman i 

& Diu | 

Department of Revenue & ; 
Taxes Excise ! 

Tree Tax 

Taluka of 

Challan No 

Village 

Tapper i 


Properly 

Situated at 

Registered under no, 
in the name of 


Number and kind cl' trees 
to be tapped 


Tapping period 
Declaration no. 
Date 


Excise Guard 

Countersigned, 

Date 


Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 
Division of payment in ins- 
talments (a) 

Nos of each Rs, . . . 

Nos of each Rs. . . . 

19. 


Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 

(a) The instalments of the 
Challan of previous months 
shall be cancelled accord- 
ingly. 


INSTALMENT 1 

OF CHALLAN 1 

No ! 

Taluka Revenue Office | 

INSTALMENT 1 INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN ' OF CHALLAN 

No. ! No i 

Taluka Revenue Office 1 Taluka Revenue Office j 

Febniary 

Tree tapping 

tax Rs 

| • • • i 

December ! October 

Tree tapping 1 Ttee tapping 

Fine for late 

payment 

TOTAL | 

Raid on I 

Fine for laic ' Fine for laic 1 

pav merit ] payment , 

TOTAL , TOTAI 

; 


19 j 19 

19. , . . j 

1 ! 

Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 

j Head of the Taluka Head of the Taluka 

, Revenue Office ! Revenue Office 

| 

1 ! 

1 

1 Tieasuiy Officer 



Treasury Officer ; Trcasuty Officer 

1 

i 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN 

No ! 

Taluka Revenue Office 

i 

INSTALMENT ' INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN OF CHALLAN 

No No 

Taluka Revenue Office ■ Taluka Revenue Office 

| March 

Tree tapping 

tax Rs 

January 1 1 Novembei 

Tree tapping < Tree tapping 

tar R . 1 tax Rs 

Tice for late 

Fine for late Fine for late 

’ TOTAL 

, Paid on 

19.... 

TOTAL j TOTAL 

Paid on ! Paid on 

19.... j 19.,.. 

i 

i * 

HeaJ of the Taluka 
; Revenue Office 

Head of the Taluka Head of the Taluka 

Revenue Office j Revenue Office 

1 Treasury Officer 

Treasury Officer 1 Treasury Officer 


INSTALMENT j 

OF CHALLAN 

i 

No 1 

Taluka Revenue Office 1 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN 

No | 

Taluka Revenue Office j 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN ] 

No '1 

Taluka Revenue Offi. c ; 

August ; 

Tree tapping 

June 

Tree tapping 

Apiil ! 

Tree tapping ;j 

tax Rs 1 

fine for late 

payment 

TOTAI 

Fine for late 

pavmcnt 

TOTAL 1 

Fine for laic il 

payment ' u 

TOTAI ■ 


Paid on 

' Enid on j 

19 

19 . 

! 

19 1 


i 


Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 

Head of the Taluka j Head of the Taluka 1 

Revenue Office Revenue Office : 

1 ! 

1 ! 

1 ! Il 

Treasury Officer 

! Treasury Officer 

1 

Treasure Officer | 

I 

( 

INSTALMENT 1 

OL CHALLAN 

No 

Taluka Revenue Office 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN 1 

No 

Taluka Revenue Office 

INSTALMENT 

OF CHALLAN j 

1 No 1 

| Taluka Revenue Office 

u 

September 

Tree tapping 

July 

j Tree tapping 
! 

; tax Rs 

May 

Tree tapping 

! tax Rs ' 

Fine for late 

payment 

TOTAL 

Fine for late 

payment 

1 TOTAL 

Paid on 

| Fine for late 

payment 

j TOTAL ! 

19 . 

19.... 

19.. .. 




Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 

Head of the Taluka 
Revenue Office 

Head of the Taluka 

1 Revenue Office 

j? 

Treasury Officer 

Treasury Officer 

Treasury Officer i 


Os 

vo 


Part III— SeC. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (RaRTIKA 22, 1887) 



170 THE GAZETTE of INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) [Part III— Sec. 3 


FORM F. 19 
(See Rule 56(5) 

GOVERNMENT Ol GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCTSL 

Licence foi' tree-tapping 
Taluka Revenue Office 

No Year 196.... 1 5*6 

resident of Taluka has been 

licensed for lapping coconut trees for 

,from the grove 

situated at., and registered 

under No belonging to 

resident of entered in the registered in thi s 


office under Nos 

This licence is valid from the month of to 

19 .... 

Taluka Revenue Office 19. .. 


The Head of (he Taluka Revenue Office 

FORM E 20 
[See Rule 57(7)] 

GOVERNMENT Ob' GOA DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 
Tree Tax 

Taluka Revenue Office 

Daily collection sheet 


Year Month Date 



Countersigned, 


Treasury Clerk Head of the Taluka Revenue Office 

Checked by. 


Treasury Officer 


FORM E 22 
(See Rule 70 j 

Revenue Office of Taluka 

licence for extration of cashew juice. 

Licence No 

Date of licence 

Shri 

of is hereby authorised to extract juice 

from cahew fruits yielded in the groves 


situated at subject to the provisions 

of the Excise Duty Act, 1964. and the rules made there under _ 

The Head of Revenue Office 


FORM E 23 
(See Rule 73) 

Revenue Office of Taluka 

licence for manufacture liquor from cashew juice and working 
stills for the distillation therefore. 

Licence no 

Date of licence 

Shri lease-holder 

of is hereby authorised to manufacture 

liquor from cashew juice and work 

stills for distillation therefor in the locality situated at. 


belonging to 

The licence fee of Rs has been paid into 

the Government treasury by challan No dated 


The Licensing Authority 
Head of the Taluka Revenue Cilice 

FORM E 24 

[See Rules 90(3) and 93] 

GOVERNMENT OF' GOA, DAMAN AND DTU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Revenue Office of Taluka 

licence for wholesale vend of foreign or/and indian made 
foreign liquor/country liquor/denatured spirit /rectified spirit 
Register No 

Name of licence-holder 

Locality 


FORM E 21 FORM E 21 

(See Rule 69) (See Rule 69) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, GOVERNMENT OF GOA, 

DAMAN AND DIU DAMAN AND DIU 

DEPART M ENT OF REVL- DEPARTMENT OF REVE- 
NUE AND TAXES NUE AND TAXES 

EXC1SF EXCISE 

Counterfoil Original 

Transit permit for trails- Transit permit for trans- 
port of country liquor by port of country liquor by 

toddy tappers. toddy tappers, 

Shri Shri 

toddy-tapper, residing at.... toddy-tapper, residing at.... 

under licence No dated under licence No dated 

the is authorised to the is authorised to 

transport litres of transport litres of 

country liquor of the streng- country liquor of the streng- 
th Jrom his ware- th from his ware- 
house to the licensed premi- house to the licensed premi- 
ses of Shri ses of Shri 

situated at The duly situated at Tho duty 

of Rs due on the of Rs due on the 

above quantity has been col- above quantity has been col- 
lected by me. lected by me. 

Place Place 

Date Date 

Tho Excise Guard, The Excise Guaid, 


This licence authorizes Shri/SarVashrl. 

residing at to sell by 

wholesale foreign or/and indian made foreign tiquor/country 

liquor/denatured spirit/rectificd spirit in the premises 

situated at subject to the 

provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the Rules made 
thereunder. 

The licence is valid from 196. , , .to. . 

196 provided that the licence fee is paid 

according to the provisions of the Rules. The non-payment of 
licence fee in time shall render this licence liable to be cancelled, 

The premises shall be dosed on every 

The Head of the Taluka Revenue Office, 


FORM E 25 
[■See Rules 90(3) and 93] 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN AND DIU 
DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Revenue Office of Taluka 

Licence for retail sale of foreign ortand indian made foregin 
liquor/country liquor/denatured spirit// edified spirit. 



Part III— Src. ?] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, NOVEMBER 13, 1965 (KARTIKA 22, 1887) 171 


Register No 

Name of licence-holder 

Locality 

This licence authorizes Shri/Sarvashri 

residing at to sell by 

retail, foreign or/and Indian made foreign liquor/countty liquor/ 

denatured spirit /rectified spirit in the premises 

situated at subject to 

l he provisions of the Excise Duty Act, 1964 and the Rules made 
thereunder. 

This licence is valid from 196.... to 

196. .. .provided that the licence fee is 

paid according to the provisions of the Rules. The non-payment 
of licence fee in time shall render this licence liable to be can. 
celled. 

The premises shall be closed on every 


Counterfoil 

FORM E 26 
( See Rule 117) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA. 

DAMAN AND DILI 

Department of Revenue 
and Taxes 

EXCISE 

1 hereby certify that hav- 
ing searched Shri 

vessel/raft/vchiclc/animal/ 
/package/rcceptacle as des- 
cribed below at hours 

today, I did not find any 
liquor concealed thereon. 

Description of: 

Place and date: 


Original 

FORM E 26 
(See Rule 117) 

GOVERNMENT OF GOA, 
DAMAN AND DIU 

Department of Revenue 
and Taxes 

EXCISE 

I hereby certify that hav- 
ing searched Shri 

vcsscl//raft/vchicle/animal/ 
/package/receptacle as des- 
cribed belox at hours 

today, 1 did not find any 
liquor concealed thereon. 

Description of: 

Place and date : 


The Head of the Taluka Revenue Office. 


The Excise 


The Excise 


FORM E 27 
( See Rule 118) 

DEPARTMENT OF REVENUE AND TAXES 
EXCISE 

Challan No 

Treasury/Sub-Treasury 

Cash paid Into the: State Bank of India at. 

State Bank of Saurasthra 


Original 

Duplicate 

Triplicate 


To be filled by the remitter To be filled in by the departmental officer 


By whom 
tendered 

1 

i 

Descrip- 
tion of 
goods 

2 

Strength 

3 

Qua: 

ntity 

Rate 

of 

duty 

6 

i i 

i 

Head of Account 

8 

Order to the Bank 

9 

Bulk 

litres 

4 

Proof 

litres 

5 

| Rs. 

7 

| P. 

1 


1 

1 

| 

i 

! 

1 

1 



1 

~|-State Excise Dutv 

1 

Date 

Correct. 

Excise. 

Receive and grant re- 
ceipt. 

Head of Taluka 

Revenue Office. 


Total amount (in words) Rupees 


Treasury Officer. Accountant. 


Received payment (in words) Rupees 

Treasurer Accountant Agent of Manager. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
FARIDABAD AND PUBLISHED BY THE J4ANAQER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1965 



