for poto 222 


REGISTERED No. D . 22% 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


Jo 18 ) 
No . 18 ) 


a fraft, afarT, KE 4, 1968/ÅTTE 14, 1890 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 4 , 1968/ VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paglog 15 given to this part in order that it may bo Aled 

as a separate compllation , 


मोटिस 


NOTICE 
ita forcat e ATEROU 7999 19 A , 1968 m starfare for to - 

The underinenrioned Gazette : of Indiu Extraordinary were published up to the April , 
1968 - 


Iyyuc 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


119 


S . O . 1303. Jatec 4th April, Ministry of Finance . Appointing all officers of Customs 
1968 . 

not below the rank of Preventive 
Officers Grade II , and all Central 
Excise Officers not below the 
rank of Inspector of Centra | 
Excise to be officers of enforcc 
ment for the purpose of enforcing 
the provişions of the Foreign 
Exchange Regulation Act , 1947 
(7 of 1947 ), 


Do. 


120 ; S .O . 1304, dated 4th April , 

1968 . 


Declaring the amount of cxpcndi 

ture incurred out of the Con 
solidated Fund of Bombay . 


Do . 


S .O . 1305, dated 4th April , 

1968 . 


Declaring the amount of expendi 
· turc incurred out of the Conso 

lidated Fund of Bombay , 


S . O . 1306, «lated 4th April , 

1968 , 


Do. 


Declaring the amount of expendi 

turc incurred out of the Congo 
lidated Fund of Bombay . 


2047 ) 


2048 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


No . and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


1984 
No. 


S O . 1307, dated 4th April , Ministry of Finance. Declaring the amount of expendi 
1968 . 

ture incurred out of the Con 
solidated Tund of Bombay. 


S . O . 1908 , dlated 5th April Ministsy of Comnes - Amendment to the rouification No. 
1968 . 

ce , 

SO . 1975, dated 20th Decembei , 

1965. 


122 SO . 1338 datud roh Apul, Ministry of Indus- l- x {ond ne 1ta punt cf 1Jy mia 
1968 

trial Dovelopment 7pcmcnt of th Ind a Elcctric 
and Company Af Works I td , Calcutta for a 
fairs . 

futher period of two months 
from the inth April, 1968 


123 SO 1339, dated 10th April, Ministry of Inlor- Approval ol the film as srecu 
196 . 

mation & Broad - thcrcin . 
casting , 


124 SO 1340, lated othApul, Ministry of Com Amendm - 111 in the Second 
196 

mcrcl , 

Schedule to the ind an auff 

Act, 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ) 
125 S 1341 Jared uth Apul, Hection Coinn! sion , Add tion in the nouficat ( u No 
1968 . 

India 

56 /67 - III ( S ( ) , 3483 ) dated 264 
September , 1967. 


Do 


126 50 . 1342, dar dirth April, 

1968 . 


Byc - election 10 the Ilouse of the 

People from the 27- B japur l ai 
liamentary Constulie nicy . 


127 SO 1343 ditet 15111 Apul, Ministry of Commer - Extending the period of managc 
1968 . 

ce . 

ment of the Suadeshi Cotton 
and Flour Mills Ltd ., Indore 
by the Authorised Controller 
up 10 11c 15111 Junc, 1909 


128 SO 1344,klared 15th Apul, Ministry of Law 

1968, 


Notlying the names of the menibers 

elecild bi llac Luuled members 
of the Legislaine Assembly of 
the State of Jammu and Kashmir 
and the members of the 
Electoral College of the Union 
Territory of Delhi, 


129 S 0 . 1345 , dated 15th April 


Ꭰ0 ] 


1968 . 


Declaracions containing the names 

of the candidalty clccted to fill 
the scats 17 the Council of 
States 


130 S . O 1425 , dated 16th Anul, blacion Commis -" Bye - election to the Ilouse of the 
1968 

ston , India hashtag People froin Daugu Parliamentury 

Constituency . 
II S . O , 1126 , dated 1 yth , Min stry of Petro - Direction that the provision of 
1998 

lium & Chanicals. sub - clause ( 1) of clause l of 

the Molasses Control Ordei , 
1961 shall come into force in 
the State of Andhra Pradesh 
with effect from the 17th day of 
April, 1968. 


132 SO 112 " , date 19th Arul, lipiiril 1910n Bie - election to the House of the 
1968, 

India , 

People from Krishnanagur 
Parliamentary Constituency in 
the State ot West Bengal, 


Sec . 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDI : NULY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2049 


S 


. . 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Sublect 


- . . 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


Do . 


S . O . 1428 , dated 19th April, Election Commission Appointment of dates for the above 
1968 . 

India , 

byc- election ( S . O . 1427 ). 
S . O . 1429 , dated 19th April , Do . 

Fixation of hours for the above 
1968 . 

bye - clcccion ( S . O . 1427) . 
133 S . O . 1430 , dated 19th April , Do. Bye- elec ion to the House of the 
1968 . 

People from Kokrajhar (ST ) 

Parliamentary Constituency . 
S .O . 1431, dated 19th April , 

Appointment of dates for the above 
1968 . 

bye- clection ( S . O . 1430 ). 
S . O . 1432 , dated 19th April, Do. 

l ixation ofhours for the above bro : 
1968 . 

clection (S . O . 1430 ). 
134 S . 0 . 1433 , dal 19h : ril, Ministry of Law . The Conduct of Elections (Arnend . 
1968 . 

nicni) Rules , 1968 . 
- - — .. 
ऊपर लिख असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली क नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जायेगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने को 
तारीख से 10 दिन के भीतर पहुंच जाने चाहिए । 


. - . . 


- 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes . 


TT II... 


S _ 


( ii) 


PART II — Section 3m - Sub -section ( ii ) 
( KAASTAT Fi tyy ) HTTH ATORE raat ate (ca 99147 81377 ) 

क. ग्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किए गए विधिक प्रादश और अधिसूचनाएं । 


Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1968 
S . O . 1825 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (5 of 1898 ) , the Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri K . Kunhirama Menon , Advocate , Calicut, as Public Prosecu 
tor for the conduct of cases mentioned below , in the original appeallate and revision 
courts ; 
( i ) RC 18 / E / 66 — Against M / s . Sharda Machinery Corporation , New Delhi 

and Chrompet, Madras K . S . Veeramony and J . S . Macedo , 


2050 


" TITE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MS +, 1963 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[L ART JI-- 


( li ) RC 17 / E / 07- RC 32 / E / 67 - Both against M / s . British Machinery Supplies 

Ço . Nizarak , Delhi, M / s . Sharda Machinery Corporation , New Delhi 
and Chrompet Madras, Parmanand Varma, K . S . Veeremony and J . S . 
Macedo . 

[ No . 225 / 12 /68 -AVD. II.) 


S . O . 1526 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of section 
492 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 ( 5 of 1898 ) , Central Government 
hereby appoints Shri K . Ramaswamy, Advocate , Madras , as a public Prosecutor for 
the conduct of case R . C . 37 / 65 -EOW /Madras against Shri K . V . Sunderavelu and 
4 others in the original appellate and revisional Courts , 


2 . The notification issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs under No. 225 / 8 / 68 
AVD II dated 1st March 1968 is hereby rescinded . 


[No. 225 / 8 / 68 -AVD - II.] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF STEEL , MINES AND METALS 


(Department of Mines and Metals ) 


New Delhi, the 24th April 1968 


S . O . 1527. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 2 ) and ( 4 ) 
of section 17 of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act , 1957 
(67 of 1957) , the Central Government , after consultation with the Government of 
Rajasthan , hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in the late Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy Engineering 
( Department of Mines and Metals ) No. GSR 288 published in the Gazette of India , 
Part II , Section 3 , sub -section ( 1 ) dated 29th February 1964, namely , - 


" In the said notification , in the Schedule . Item 2 (relating to Manglod ) shall 

be omitted ." 


[No. 4 (4 ) /83-MII.) 
D . D . GUPTA , Dy. Secy . 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 


New Delhi, the 2011 October 1907 


S . O . 1528 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 22 
of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby 
cancels its following notifications : 


( 1) No. 434 / J & K /HP / 66 , dated the 2nd January , 1967. 
(2 ) No. 434 / J & K / HP / 86 , dated the 20th February , 1967. 
( 3) No. 434 / J & K /HP / 86 , dated the 24th February, 1967 . 

[ No . 434 / J & K167.] 


Sec . 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 11 , 1890 


2051 


New Delhi, the 2017 March 1968 


S . O . 1529 . — In pursuance of section 100 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the order pronounced on 
the 13th March , 1968, by the High Court of Madhya Pradesh , Indore Bench , 
Indore , in election petition No . 45 of 1067. 

IN THE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH , INDORE 


ELECTION PETITION No. 45 OF 1967 
Hari Vishnu Kamath V Choudhary Nitiraj Singh 

ORDER 
Issues No. 15 and 16 werc directed to be treated as preliminary and argu 
ments of the parties were heard on them on 30th October , 1467. These issues 
and my findings thereon are as below : 
Issue No. 15 , 4 -Whether the petitioner has not complied with the provisions 

of Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, in 
as much as no copy of the telegram , referred to in para 7 ( v ) of 
the petition , has been fled for being supplied to the respondent? 
If so , whether the petition is not properly presented and ought to 

be disniissed ? 
Issue No . 16 .-- -Whether the petitioner , by not Aling one copy of the alleged 

faked ballot - paper with the copy of the petition for being supplied 
to the respondent, has violated the provision of Section 81 ( 3 ) of 
the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ? If so , whether the 
pctition is not properly presented and ought to be dismissed ? 


The contention of the respondent with rcference to this issue is that although in para 
7 ( v ) of the petition as amended the petitioner averred that the Congress party flag 
hud been seen hoisted on the house of Shri BalmukundGupta during the election 
period and that on the protest by an independent candidate Shri Kishorilal Paliwal 
by telegrams, copies of which were being Aled , the same had been removed , yet 
in reality no such copies of the telegrams of Shri Kishorilal Paliwa] were filed 
nor any such copies of the telegrams were supplied to the respondent. This 
default, it is said , on the part of the pctitioner rendered the petition open to 
dismissal under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, for 
non - compliance of Section 81 ( 3 ) of that Act . Reliance is sought to be placed 
on behalf of the respondent upon the decision of the Supreme Court reported 
in A . I. R . 1965 Supreme Court 1243 Amin Lal V . Hunna Mal ( page 1246 Column 2 ) 
as also upon the decision of Bhargava J., in the Election Petition No. 36 of 1967 
Rama Shankar V . Jugalkishore and others , dated 26th July , 1967 . 

This contention , in my opinion , is untenable . Neither the provisions as 
contained in Section 81 ( 3 ) and 86 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 
1951, nor the decisions above referred justify dismissal of this petition as urged . 

The relevant observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court appearing 
at page 1246 Column 2 of A . I. R . 1965 Supreme Court 1243 Rame Shankar s case 
are as below : 
" Indeed this provision gives an independent power to the Tribunal to 

dismiss an election petition on the ground of non - compliance with 
the provisions of Sections 81 and 82 despite the fact that the Elec 
tion Commission has not chosen to dismiss it upon those grounds 
under Section 85 . Since the election petition can be permitted by 
the Tribunal to be amended , a petition which has been amended 
would , from the date of amendment, be the only petition before It. 
Therefore , that would be the petition with respect to which it could 
exercise the powers conferred upon it by Sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
90 . To hold otherwise would lead to the result that the powers 
conferred by the legislature on the Tribunal ty this provision will 
become non - exercisable in respect of one category of election peti 
tions. There is nothing in Section 90 which deprives the Tribunal 
of any of the powers conferred upon it by the aforesaid provision . 
No other provision has been brought to our notice which has the 
effect of taking away the express powers - - conferred by sub - section 
( 3 ) of Section 90 on the Tribunal by reason of an amendinent of the 
petition . We cannot, therefore , accept his contention " , 


2052 


THE GALETTE OR INDIA : MAY 1, 1908 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II-- 


These observations of their Lordships do indicate that the Election Tribunal 
trying an election petition and now the High Court doing so have clear power 
to dismiss an election petition on the ground of non -compliance with Section 81 
or 82 of the Representation of the People Act and such power is exercisable 
even with reference to an election petition which has been amended , 

But the material question for consideration is whether there is in fact a non 
compliance 01 Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, in a 
particular cast , 

In the present case in the first place the petition , as amended , as well as the 
amendment petition did refer to the fact that an indepondent candidate named 
Kishorilal Paliwal had by telegrams protested against holytini of Congress Party 
flag on the house of Shri Balmukand Gupta , Thus the material contents of the 
telegrams were mentioned in the avermcnt. Although copies of those telegrams 
were stated to have been filed in reality they were not. But, this failure to file 
such copies did not mean that either the petition itself or the copies thereof as 
contemplated by Section 81 ( 3 ) were materially defective or incomplete , Even it 
no mention had been made in the petition that the copies of the telegrams were 
being filed the petition would not have been rendered materially defective or 
incomplete , The averment as to copies was referable to a piece of evidence to 
corroborate that averment. This evidence could be produced later. 

In the second place it cannot be said that copies of telegrans constituted 
annexure or schedule to the petition so that the petition as well as copies thereof, 
iſ unaccompanied by such copies of the telegrams, would be matcrially incom 
viete making it: almost impossible for the respondent to have his say against the 
averments made in the petition . It was held by their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court in A . I. R . 1964 Supreme Court 1945 Murarka Radhey Shyam V . Roop Singh , 
in para 11 of the report page 1551 columnn 1 : - - 
" Having regard to the provisions of Part VI of the Act, we are of the view 

that the word copy does not mean an absolutely exact copy. It 
means a copy so true that no body can by any possibility nisunder 
stand it. The test whether the copy is a true one is whether any 
variation from the original is calculated to inisicant an ordinary per 
son . Applying that test we have come to the conclusion that the 
defects complained oC with regard to Election Peiition No . 269 of 
1962 were not such as to mislead the appellant; therefore there is 
170 failure to comply with the last part of sub - section ( 3 ) of Sec 
tion 81. In that view or the matter sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 90 
was not attracted and thicre was no question of dismissing the elec 
tion petition under that sub - section by reason of any failure to comply 

with the provisions of Section 81." 
These observations of their Lordships were referred to with respect by Bhar 
gava J ., in his decision in Rama Shankar s case (Election Petition No . 36 of 1967 ) , 
but in that casc , on facts peculiar to it , he held that the copies supplied by the 
petitioner were so defective that they could not be treated as copies or true copies 
of the petition within the meaning of Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Act. 

As alrcady held by me the coples of the petition cannot be said to be mate 
rially or substantially defective because of failure to file copies of the telegrams 
after making referencc to such production further qucstion as to liability of 
the petition to be disinissed under Section 86 ( 1 ) for non - compliance with Sec 
tion 81 ( 3 ) does not arise . As far as I can see it can hardly be said that there is 
non - compliance with Section 81 ( 3 ) . I would , therefore , find with reference to 
issue No. 15 that there is 110 non - compliance of Section 81 ( 3 ) because of peti 
tlorer s failure to ille copies of telegrams and consequently the petition is not 
liable to be dismissed under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People 
Act. 1951, 

Issue No . 16 . - The contention of the respondent with reference to this issue 
is that the alleged faked ballot - puper , to which reference was made by the peti 
tioner in para 6 of the petition , had been made the part of the petition and as 
such failure to supply copy of the faked ballot -paper amounted to violation of 
Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and that consequently 
the petition is not properly presented and ought to be dismissed on that account. 

This contention , in my opinion , is untenable . I have already held on the 
sirength of the observations of their Lordships of the Suprerie Court in A . I. R . 
1965 Supreme Court 1243 ( supra ) that the High Court would dismisz an election 
petition on the ground of non - compliance with Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Act and 
such power is exercisable with reference to an election petition which has been 


SFC . 3(ii) ] TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : M .1 I, 1968 /VATSAKHA 11 , 1890 
- - - -- - - - - 

- = 

: :. . .- _ - - - - - - - 
amended , But the material question in the present case is whether failure to 
supply copy of tlie faked ballot- paper to the respondent referred to in the peti 
lion amounts to non - compliance with Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Act . 

The petiziuner in para 6 of the petition has given clear description of the laked 
Lallot -paper and indicated therein what it contained in the following terms: 
" The respondent published fake dummy or ballot papers on which it was 

printed within two asterisks NAKLI MAT PATRA The name of the 
respondent and his symbol was shown on the ballot-paper whereas 
the name of the petitioner was also printed in strall letters without 
his symbol. A request was also made in the note at the bottom that 

the voters should put their seals on the pair of bullccks." 
The petitioner further avers that a specimen copy of the faked dummy ballot 
paper is filed along with the petition . Failure to supply copy of the specimen 
copy cannot under the circumstances amount 1 . on - compliance- - non - supply of 
materially correct copy and it cannot be said that there is violation of Section 

1 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and that consequently the 
petition is liable to he dismissed under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951. 

The petitioner in para 6 clearly indicated what the faked ballot -paper con 
tained and I li cannot be said that those allegations were so materially incomplete 
As to prevent the respondent from ineeting those allegations or replying to them . 
The copy in this case is substantially complete and there ! ure as held by their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in A . I. R . 1964 Supreme Cour ! 1545 ( suora ) the 
petition ( 70t le dismissed under Section 86 ( 1 ) of the Represcutation of the 
Feople Act, 1951. Thus my finding on issue No. 16 is that the petitioner, by not 
supplying the copy of the faked ballot -paper referred to at the commencement 
of para 6 of the petition to the respondent, has not violated Section 81 ( 3 ) of the 
Fluoresentation of the People Act , 1951 and that consequently the petition is not 
liable to be dismissed as not properly presented . 
• 1: vint of these findings the case shall be set down for further trial. 
Date ? +77 2072 of November. 1967 , 

Sd . ; V . R . NEWASKAR , Judge . 
HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH , JABALPUR BENCH AT INDORE 

ELECTION PETITION NO. 15 OF 1907 
App : 02:17 

Opposite Party 
Hari Vitu Kamath s / o . Kam 

Chandhiny Nitirajsingh slo . Chou 
Kam411 , R / o . Dhartoli. Nas - Vs. 

rhary Daulatsingh . Advocate , 
Du . - (MS ) and Masters 

Narsinghpur . (M .P .) 
CO . , New Delhi. 
4 r . , . ; for challenging the election of the Respondent Choudhary Nitiraj 
singh . Tror Hoshangabad Parliamentary Constitucicy No. 27 to the Lok Sabha 
declared or 2nd February , 1967. 

Petition presented by Shri Hari Vishnu Kamat! Counsel for applicant, on 10th 
April, 1957 . 

The . . tion cing on fire ful hearing on 19 , 20 and 21 of Febru : rv , 
19!! ... 1 . . . TIMU : 10 Shii .Tilities T R Newaskar, and the Honourablr 
SHO , T . . Puth 17" ; nie of Shri A . K . Chitale . Y , S . Dharmadhikari, A . P . 

1 . V . Reec , S . K . Jain Colinisel for the applicant , and of Shri L . S . Shukla ; 
V . P . Misk , Counsel for the opposite party , the following order was passecl by 
the Co . 17 . . . 

ORDER 
IN TIE HIGH COURT OF MADHYA PRADESH BENCH INDORE 

ELECTION PETITION No . 45 OF 1967 
CORAM . - The Hon ble Shri V . R . Newaskar, J. 
Hari Vishnu Kamath , V . Choudhary Nitirajsingh . 

JUDGMENT 
This is an election petition submitted by an unsuccessful candidate. Shri Hari 
Vishnu Kamath , under Sections 80 - A , 81 and 100 of the Representation of the 


2054 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


(Part II - 


People Act, 1951 seeking to set aside the election of the respondent Choudhary 
Nitirajsingh from Hoshangabad parliamentary constituency No. 27 . 

The petitioner seeks to set aside the election of the respondent on the ground 
that the respondent was guilty of several corrupt practices involving bribery , 
gifts and offer of promises made or given by the respondent or his agents or by 
other persons with his consent with the object directly or indirectly of inducing 
the voters to vote for the respondent and not to vote for the petitioner, as also 
on the ground of the respondent having exercised undue influence on the voters or 
electors involving direct or indirect Interference or attempt at interference on 
the part of the respondent or other persons with his consent with the free exer 
cise of their electoral rights and further that the respondent, his agents and 
others , with his consent, were guilty of publication of statements of facts which 
were false or were not believed by them to be true in relation to the personal 
character or conduct or candidature of the petitioner, and lastly , that the respon 
dent or his agents or others with his consent, had obtained or procured or 
attempted to obtain or procure the assistance of persons in the service of the 
Government for furthering the prospects of his election , It was on these broad 
grounds that the petitioner seeks to set aside the election of the respondent. 

In setting out the particulars of the corrupt practices with reference to the 
averments as to bribery as contemplated under Section 123 ( 1 ) of the Represen 
tation of the People Act, the petitioner states that the respondent Nitirajsingh 
was a candidate of the Congress Party which was the party in power during the 
entire period of the clection in question ; that the Hoshangabad parliamentary 
constituency for which the petitioner and the respondent were the candidates 
consisted mostly of rural areas inhabited by agriculturists and that at the time 
of the selection of the Congress candidate , there was sharp cleavage of opinioni 
between geyeral internal groups of the Congress ; that the then Chief Minister 
of Madhya Pradesh , Shri Dwarkaprasad Mishra was a member of the Central 
Election Committee of the Congress and it was he who was in fact instrumental 
in selecting the respondent as the Congress candidate for the Hoshangabad 
parliamentary constituency as also for various constituencies in the State ; that 
the said Chief Minister , D . P . Mishra with a view to influencing the voters , who 
were mostly agriculturists, and to induce them to vote for the Congress candidate , 
got published a declaration on the 16th and 17th of February , 1967, at Narsingh 
pur and Piparia respectively in the presence of the respondent, a declaration to 
the effect that the agriculturists holding land not exceeding 7 . 5 acres or paying 
rent upto Rs. 5 would be exempted from payment of land - revenue; that besides 
making the declarations at the aforesaid places , speeches were also made by Shri 
D , P , Mishra and the respondent giving out the intention of the Congress Party 
to confer benefit upon the agriculturists in similar strain . These declarations and 
speeches made by Shri D . P . Mishra and the respondent on the eve of election 
were meant to induce the voters to vote for the Congress Party and amounted to 
a corrupt practice of bribery as contemplated under Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( b ) of 
the Representation of the People Act. 

To bring about the aforesaid result of inducing the agriculturists - voters, an 
ordinance was issued by the Government of Madhya Pradesh dated 23rd of 
December, 1986 , which later became an Act No. 6 of 1967 and that after the pub 
lication of the ordinance, respondent and D . P . Mishra started canvassing and 
inducing the voters to vote for the respondent on the ground that the ordinance 
exempting the small holdings from land - revenue would become law only if the 
Congress candidates were returned elected . Such statements , it was said , were 
made by them in the public meetings at Narsinghpur and Piparia on 16th of 
February , 1967. This Act of exemption of land - revenue it was alleged by the 
petitioner , had been made by the then Chief Minister, D . P . Mishra who was also 
the leader of the Congress Party and in so doing , he became the principal agent 
of the respondent in connection with his election . 

The second act on the part of the then Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh 
which was meant to induce a large section of the voters to vote for the Congress 
Party was with reference to the dearness allowance of Class III and IV emplo 
yees of the State Government. This act, it was said , was done by him as the 
agent of the respondent. There was, it is said , a long standing and reasonable 
demand of the ministerial staff in the State of Madhya Pradesh for increase in 
dearness allowance. That demand had not been conceded by the State Govern 
ment on the ground that the Union Government refused to contribute towards 
the expenditure involved in such increase . In consequence of such refusal, there 
were demonstrations and representations by the ministerial employees in the 
months of January , and February , 1967. The Congress Party apprehended that 
such resentment on the part of the ministerlal employees would have an adverse 


SEC 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2055 


effect on the poll. In order therefore , to induce these Class III and IV emplo 
yees of the Government to vote for the Congress, Shri D . P . Mishra who was the 
virtual leader of the Congress Party in the State , announced in the second week 
of February , 1967, i. e ., a few days before the date of poll, that the Government 
was committed to give increased rate of dearness allowance to its employees from 
1st April 1967. 


It is further alleged that declaration was also made by the respondent and 
his agent, Shri D . P . Mishra at Narsinghpur and Piparia in the meeting held on 
18th of February , 1967, that the Government servants falling in Class III and IV 
categories would be given increased dcarness allowance at per with the em 
ployees of the Central Government and that they would continue to render similar 
services to these classes of employees if the Congress candidate for the parlia 
mentary election was elected by the voters . These statements , it was said , were 
made by the respondent and his agent, Pandit Dwarkaprasad Mishra with the 
consent of the respondent with the intention of inducing the voters to vote for the 
respondent. The aforesaid declarations in connection with the increase in dear 
ness allowance of Class III and IV employes of the State , according to the peti 
tioner , constituted bribery . It was an offer of promise by the candidate himself 
by making declaration of monetary increase in dearness allowance to induce that 
section of the electors to vote for the Congress Party and consequently , amount 
ed to a corrupt practice as contemplated by Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( b ) . 


23 /10 consequeno,inducemisel 


The third category of corrupt practice under this head was alleged to be the 
starting of relief works . In the middle of the year 1966 , a new system was 
evolved in the name of scarcity programme. The State Government declared 
some areas as scarcity areas due to drought and authorised employment of needy 
persons for works relating to roads , embankment etc. Sufficient fund was allotted 
to each scarcity affected district. Although the revenue district of Narsinghpur, 
it was said , was not declared as scarcity area , yet, rclief works were started just 
one month before the date of clection . In the month of February , 1967, many 
labourers who were also voters were employed in those works. Before the first 
week of February , 1967, only 3 lakhs labourers had been employed in connection 
with the relief works in the State of Madhya Pradesh but Immediately a week 
or two before the date of poll, near about 8 lakhs of persons were employed as 
labourers . In the Narsinghpur and Hoshangabad districts , 20 thousand labourers 
were employed for about 4 weeks in the relief works. These labourers were also 
electors of parliamentary constituency . The relief works aforesaid had been 
started at the instance of the Congress Party of which the Chief Minister was the 
leader with a view to giving employment to the voters and thereby inducing them 
to vote for the candidates set up by the Congress Party . 


The fourth category of corrupt practice of bribery alleged by the petitioner 
was in connection with the continuance of a post- office at Singpur. The peti 
tioner s allegations with reference to this corrupt practice are that Shri S . S . N . 
Mushran was the Congress candidate for the Assembly constituency of Gadarwara 
within the limits of which the village Singpur is situated . The election prope 
ganda and campaign of Shri S . S . N . Mushran and the respondent had been carried 
on jointly and Shri $ . S . N . Mushran had been acting as the agent of the respon 
dent with his consent throughout the period of the election . At Singpur, there 
was a branch post - office situated in the Gram - Panchayat office building . The 
branch post -office was found by the postal department to be un - economic . The 
postal department, therefore , was un -willing to continue the post - office unless it 
was assured of a certain level of income expected by it. During the financial 
year 1966 - 67 , the postal department found that there was a deficit or Rs. 200 for 
retaining the post - office there during that year . The postal authorities were pro 
posing to close down the branch post - office unless the Gram - Panchayat was pre 
pared to make good the deficiency. This situation was put by the Gram - Pan 
chayat before Shri S . S . Mushran , the President of the Madhya Pradesh Pro 
vincial Congress Committee and the Congress candidate from Gadarwara legis 
lative assembly constituency when he visited Singpur in the second week of 
February , 1967, and they said that they would induce the electors of the village 
to vote for the candidate who would help them in making up the deficit. There 
upon , It is said , Shri S . S . N . Mushran paid Rs. 200 to the office -bearers of Gram 
Panchayat on 11th February , 1967, for making good the deficiency in the income 
of the post - office . This fact induced the voters to vote for the Congress Party 
candidate for the Vidhan Sabha as well as for the Lok Sabha. This act of Shri 
Mushran involved corrupt practice as the agent of the respondent with his con 
sent for inducing the voters to vote for the Congress candidate and amounted to 
bribery under Section 123 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act. 


2056 THE GAZETTE OF INDI : 11.5 J . 1963 , VAISAKHI 11 , 1800 [PART II 
--- - - 

The next item of corrupt practice was in connection with a High - School build 
ing at Karapgaon , tahsil Gadarwara, The material averments with reference to 
it are that on 16th of February , 1967, the respondent accompanied by Baboola ) 
Jain who was the Congress candidate from the constituency of Bohani, induced 
Chaitram son of Chunnilal Kalar , Prahladsingh son ol Motisingh and Babulal son 
of Madhosingh to vote for the Congress Party candidates by giving an assurance 
to open a High School or to exert their influence with the Government to have 
a High School opened there. The respondent, it is said , further offered to donate 
a substantial amount for the construction of the school building in case the Gov 
ernment opened a High School there. Such ofler of opening a High School with 
the object of inducing the electors to vote for him constituted a corrupt practice 
of bribery . 

The last item under this head of corrupt practice was with refcrence to relaxa 
tion of ban on the movement of Gulabi Chana. During the election period , it 
was said , there was a total ban on movement of Gulabi Chana from outside the 
districts of the State of Madhya Pradesh and from out of the State of Madhya 
Pradesh . The Congress Party and the candidates set up by the Congress Party 
felt that this restriction in the movement of Gulabi Chana would cost them 
heavily in votes. Tlie Party candidates, therefore , could frecly persuade the 
Government to help them in furtherance of the prospects of their election , The 
respondent felt that way and on his persuasion as also that of his agents , the 
State Government temporarily removed the restriction on the movement of 
Gulabi Chana for a period between 1st of February , 1967, to 15th of February , 
1967, by granting permits for export of Gulabi Chana out of the State , At 1119 
instance of the respondent, permits were issued to Seth Bhojraj of Gadurwara , 
Shri Tulsiram Agrawal of Karci and Shri Ramchandradas Péthia of Karoli. 
Those permits, it was said , had been issued with the consent of the respondent 
or in his interest with a view to induce the voters to vote for him . Such grant 
of permits at the instance of the respondent or of his agents with his consent 
amounted to the corrupt practice of bribery . 

Another head of corrupt practice besides that of hribery was one falling under 
Section 123 ( 4 ) and 123 ( 2 ) . The respondent, it is said , published faked or durrny 
ballot papers styled as Nakali Matpatra . l he name of the respondent together 
with his symbol were shown on that hallot paper whereas the name of the f. eti 
tioner was printed in small letters and his symbol was onnitted . At the foot of 
the ballot paper , there was a note requesting the voters to put their seal against 
the pair of bullocks. Such hillot papers, it was said , had been distributed 
throughout the constituency by the agents of the respondent with his content. 
At the time of surh : ribution , the respondent is also his agents said that the 
delitioncis symbol nit n10 longer existed or that the netitioner had withdrawny 
his candidature . Suci statements were made by the persons distributing the 
Pen ? ballot papers at Gadarward in the presence of the respondient. Such diş 
trituninn had taken place during 30 days just preceding the date of polling iri 
Narsinghpur on the 15th of Tchruary 1967 and Gadarvata on the 16th of Feb 
runn 1967 in the presence of the respondent. This was done by Baboolal Jain , 
a Crimgress candidate from Bohani constituency in the presence of the respondent. 
Besides him , Munshi Harprasad , Harishankar Sthapak and Tejram Kaurav dis 
tributcil such Suked ballot papers with the consent or in the interest of the 
redondont in the constitucney . Giving (ulicr details of such distribution , it 
was said by the petitioner that such faled ballot Dapeis were distributed by 
Komalsingh Akhepurit, agent of the respondent with his consent on 1611, rinit 
17th of February 1967 at Piparia by Shri Khubchand Khera , agent of the 
respondent and with his consent at Narsinghpur betwcen 10t12 to 161h of February 
1967 and by Munshi Harprasad and Harishankar Sthapak , ngents of the respon . 
dent and with his consent at Gadarwara between 10th to 16th of February 1967 
and 15tly . hy Tejram Kaurav , agent of the responden anrl with his concent 
at Tandukheda on 16th of February 1967. The distribution of such faked ballot 
papers it was said , conveyed an impression that the petitioner tant no symbol 
and further verbal statements made at the time of disti ibution confused the 
voters and led them to believe that the petitioner har vi drawn by regson of 
absence of his symbol on the faked ballot papers . These acts 3770unted to 
false statements which the person distributing, did not believe to be truc and 
were in relation to the candidature of the petitioner and were calculated to 
prejudice the prospects of his election . This constituted a corrupt practice as 
contemplated under Section 123 ( 4 ) of the Representation of the People Act . 

The last category of corrupt practice related to procuring assistance or 
attempting to procure assistance of Government servants . Giving details about 
this corrupt practice , it was said that Choudhary Doulatsingh , the father of the 
respondent, who was a well-known public figure at Narsinghpur expired in 


JCB( 1) . 


THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : JAY 4 , 196N / VESILHA 14 , 1890 


2057 


= SHSHSHST : 


. . 


. 


Novembe : 1966 . The responçient had invited several persons of his caste and 
other influential persons at the 13th day ceremony in connection with his 
father s death sometime in December 1966 . He had applicd for a Congress 
ticket in October 1966 and he was selected as a Congress candidate by the end 
of November 1966 . On the occasion of the 13th day ceremony , Shri Marutraj 
singh Choudhary , who was the Chief Electoral Officer Anal Revenue Secretary , 
of The State oť Mhdhya Pradesh and was also the brother of the respondent, told 
all the persons who had gathered in the 13th day ceremony , that the respondent 
would contest the election and they should help him and should carry on his 
election propaganda . On that very occasion , the respondent and Shri M . S . 
Choudhary also appcaled to the caste voters to vote for the respondent on the 
ground that he was a person of their caste . These appeals by the respondent 
and his brother amounted to corrupt practice conteniplated by Section 123 ( 3 ) 
and 133 / 7 ) of the Representation of the People Act. 

The second Government official whose assistance was said to have been 
procured by the respondent was the cousin of the respondent named Diwansingh 
Choudhary who was a Station House Olficer at Sohagpur. With reference to 
him , it was stated , while giving the details of the corrupt practice with reference 
to him , that he called Baliram Patel of Dikwara and Rewatsingh Patel of 
Akola of Sohagpur tahsil on 16th and 17th of January 1967 at Sohagpur Police 
Station and told them to vote and induce others to vote for the respondcnt. A 
complaint was made about the activity of Diwansingh Choudhary to the Chief 
Election Commissioner by the petitioner , 

Thirsis , it was said , that the Prime Minister of India , Sivimati Indira Gandhi 
had addressed a public meeting in Itarsi to solicit votes for the Congress Party 
candidates on 25th of January , 1967. Prior to that, that is on 23rd and 24th of 
January 1267 , many State Government employees and the Railway Cmployces of 
the Union Government had been found busy in the construction of the rostrum 
for the public meeting . The work was supervised by the S . D . O ., P . W . D . and 
Sub Divisional Officer ( Civil ) and other P . W . D . and revenue officers . In a 
similar way , it was said , arrangements were made for the meeting of Pancit D . P . 
Mishra , the then Chief Ministai of Madhya Pradesn , at Narsinghpur on 15th of 
Februari 1997 änd on precedin , aates . The respondent was himsell present 
and supervising the work . The Chief Minister addressed the meeting on the 
16th . The work of construction of the rostrum was supervised by the S . D . O . 
( Civil) , Tahsildar and the respondent. The respondent, it is said , had told the 
officers that they should ensure proper arrangements for the election mecting 
of the Chice Minister . 

Lastly mne Balmakund Gupta . Naib - Tahsildar of Jabalpur , who was a resident 
of Paloha tahsil Cadarwara , actually took leave for doing the Congress propaganda 
He came and rosided at Paloha during the leave period . Shri Gupta was in junior 
of the Corgress candidate for the Assembly constituency of Bohạni, named Baboolal 
Jain wher M : . Gupta was practising as a lawyer. He worked for the respondent 
as his 9.0 " with his consent at Paloha , Khaguria . Bhatera and Bhersa . The 
Congress Pir : y flag was also seen holsted on his house during the el ? ction period . 
It was 12er remover on protest by Kishorilal Paliwal. 

On t ? ? ? & rounds, it is said , that the election of the respondent was vitiated 
due to C : 17 !1pt practices cletailed above . 


ile 12.iyondeni, in answer to the petition , has clenled the various corrupt 
practices attributed to hini or to his agent with his consent. It was denied that 
Pandit Mishra was instrumental in selecting him as a candidate for the Hoshangabad 
parliamentary constituency. It was also denied that the candidates for the Assem 
bly constituencies during 1967 clections within the limits of the parliamentary con 
stituency oi Hoshangabad -Narsinghpur were the agents of the respondent. Accord 
ing to hin the respondent was declared elected by a majority of 22, 310 votes and 
not by a majority of about 20 . 000 votes as alleged by the petitioner . According to 
the respondent, he was the only candidate who had applied for a Congress ticket 
from Hoshangabad parliamentary constituency and averment as to group rivalry 
amongst the aspirants of the candidature for a parliamentary seat had no basis 
It was derieci that either the Chief Minister, as the head of the Government, on 
16th and 27ih of February 1967 or at any other date got published a declaration 
at Narsinghpur and Piparia or at any other place with reference to the exemption 
from lare - revenue of lands below 7. 5 acres or paying land -revenue upto Rs. 5 . 
It was also denied that any speeches were made either by the respondent or by 
the Chief Minister attributed to them . The petitioner s averments regarding the 
agency of D . P . Mishra for the respondent or the corrupt practice attributed to 


2058 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKTIA 14 , 1890 


[ P .XT II - 


- 


either of them was denied. It was also denied that the respondent and Shri D . P . 
Mishra as his agent, made speeches at Narsinghpur and Piparia on 16th of February 
1967 or on any other date regarding the increase of dearness allowance of ministerial 
employees of the State . 

As regards the relief works started by the Government, the respondent s case 
is that lie has nothing to do with the acts of the executive Government of the 
State . The Government did not undertake the relief works with the respondent s 
consent or at his instance. The scarcity conditions, according to the respondent, 
existing in several parts of the State justified the State Government to undertake 
relief works which had been started since 1965 -66 . They were continued in 1966 - 67 . 

The averments with regard to bribery in connection with the post- office at 
Singpur or the agency of Shri S . S . N . Mushran with reference to the respondent 
with reference to opening of a High School at Karapguon or removal of restriction 
on the movement of Gulabi Chana were also denied . The respondent, it was said , 
had nothing to do with these matters. 

With reference to the faked ballot papers that the alleged faked or dummy 
ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 had , in fact, been got printed and published by the 
District Congress Committee along with similar ballot papers for Gadarwara and 
Bohani Assembly constituencies . But these had not been published with the 
intention attributed by the petitioner . It was denied that the respondent or any 
of his agents represented to the electorate that the petitioner s syinbol hut no 
longer existed or that the petitioner had withdrawn his candidature . It was also 
denied that any such statements had been made by persons distributing such faked 
ballot papers at Gadarwara in the presence of the respondent. It was also denied 
that such distribution of the faked ballot papers , like Ex , P - 4 had been made 
during 10 days before the date of polling . It was specifically denied that they 
were distributed at Narsinghpur on the 15th and at Gadarwara on the 16th in the 
presence of the respondent. The other details of the distribution were also denied . 

As regards the assistance of the various Government officials, the respondent 
denied the averments pertaining to the same and particularly those referable to 
his brother M . S . Choudhary , his cousin D . S . Choudhary and to the various 
averments referable to the meeting of the Prime Minister, Mrs . Indira Gandhi and 
Shri D , P . Mishra as also to Balmakund Gupta , Naib - Tahsildar , Jabalpur and others. 
All the averments , it was said , regarding the corrupt practices attributed to the 
respondent or to his agents with his consent were not true. The respondent, 
therefore , sought the dismissal of the petition . 
On these respective averments , the following issues were framed > 
1 . Whether the candidates contesting on the Congress tickets with the gym 

bol of two bullocks with yoke on from the Gotegaon , Narsinghpur, 
Bohanl, Gadarwara, Piparia , Denawa, Itarsi and Hoshangabad Legis 
lative Assembly constituencies for the general election held in 1967 
were the agents of the respondent who was a candidate on Congress 
ticket from the Hoshangabad Parliamentary constituency and vice 

versa ? 
2 ( a ) Whether Pandit D . P . Mishra , who was the Chief Minister of Madhya 

Pradesh and leader of the Congress party prior to the last general 
election , was instrumental in selecting the respondent as a candidate 

from Hoshangabad Parliamentary constituency ? 
(b ) Whether Pandit D . P . Mishra was the agent of the respondent and he, 

with the consent of the respondent, got published a declaration and 
made speeches at Narsinghpur and Piparia to the effect that the agri 
culturists holdings not exceeding 7 . 50 acres or paying rent upto Rs. 5 

have been exempted from paying land - revenue ? 
( c ) Whether such exemption , in the circumstances in which it was declared 

and made , constituted a gratification to the agriculturists voters for 
inducing them to vote for a Congresg candidate and as such amounted 
to a corrupt practice of bribery under Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) and (b ) of 

the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
3 . ( a ) Whether Pandit D . P . Mishra aforesaid , as the agent of the respondent 

and with his consent, declared on the 16th of February 1967 at 
Narsinghpur and Piparia that Class III and IV employees would be 
given dearness -allowance according to the rates sanctioned for the 

Central Government employees by the Central Government? 
( b ) Whether such a declaration made by him amounted to gratification 

made by him with the object of inducing the voters who are class III 


SEG. 3 (11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKIIA 14 , 1890) 


2059. 


and IV employees of the Governnient to vote tor the Congress candi 
date i.e ., the respondent and whether it amounted to a corrupt practice 
of bribery under section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) and ( b ) of the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 ? 


- Whether Pandit D . P . Misbra atoresaid as the agent of the respondent 

offered gratification of employment to the voters belonging to labour 
class , who were without employment, with a view to induce such voters 
to vote for the respondent. If so , whether it amounted to a corrupt 
practice of bribery under Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) and (b ) of the Repre 
sentation of the People Act, 1951 ? 


5 . ( a ) Whether Shri S . S . N . Mushran had been acting as the agent of the 

l espondent throughout the election ? 
( b ) Whether he, as the agent of the respondent, on 11th February 1967. 

paid Rs, 200 to the office bearers of the Gram - Panchayat for clearing 
deficit of the post office with the consent of the respondent with a 
view to induce the voters who were the members of the Gram - Pan 
chayat or otherwise to vote for the respondent and whether this . 
arnounted to a corrupt practice of bribery under Section 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) 

( a ) and ( b ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ? 
6 . Whether the respondent accompanied by another Congress candidate from : 

Bohani Legislative Constituency nained Baboolal Jain went to Karap 
gaon on 10th February 1967 and gave assurance to open a High School 
with the intention of inducing the voters of that place to vote for the 

respondent ? 
7 . Whether the Congress Party was the agent of the respondent and in that 

capacity persuaded the Government to remove the ban on export 
outside the State of Gulabi Chana in the period between 1st of 
February 1967 and 15th of February 1967 and whether on removal of 
such a ban persuaded the Government to issue permits to ( 1) Seth 
Bhojraj, ( il ) Tulsiram Agrawal and ( lii ) Ramchandra Pethla of Kareli 
with the object of inducing them to vote for the respondent and 
whether this amounted to a corrupt practice of bribery under Section 

123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) and (b ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ? 
8 . Whether the respondent and his agents viz ., Baboolal Jain , Munshi 

Harprasad . Harishankar Sthapak , Komalchand Akhepuria , Khubchand 
Khera and Tejram Kaurava stated before the voters on 15th of Febru 
ary 1967 at Narsinghpur and on 16th February 1967 at Gadarwara 
and Piparla that the petitioner had withdrawn his candidature and 
that his election symbol viz ., Hut no longer existed and that faked 
ballot papers purporting to be of the petitioner but without any symbol 
of hut were distributed in their presence when they made such a 
statement and whether this amounted to a corrupt practice under 

Section 123 (4 ) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951? 
4 . Whether the respondent and his brother Shri M . S . Choudhary , who is : 

a gazetted officer, appealed to the voters of his caste , who had assembled . 
on the 13th day of death ceremony of late Shri Daulatsingh Choudhary: 
to vote for the respondent on the ground that he was a candidate 
belonging to their caste and whether this act amounted to corrupt 
practice under section 123 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act, 
19517 


10 . Whether the Station House Oficer , Sohagpur Shri Dewansingh Choudhary 

called Baliran Patel and Rewatsingh Patel on the 16th and 17th of 
January 1967 at Sohagpur Police Station and asked them to vote and 
10 induce others to vote for the respondent and whether he did so 
with the consent of the respondent and whether this amounted to a 
corrupt practice under Section 12317 ) of the Representation of the 

People Act, 1951 ? 
11. Whether local Congress Secretary , Shri Balkrishna Sharma asked the 

Sub -Divisional Officer P . W . D . , Sub - Divisional Officer (Civil) and 
( Revenue) at Itarsi to work for the public meeting of Shrimati Indira 
Gandhi held on 25th January 1967 by constructing a rostrum for the 
njeeting and thereby secure victory for the respondent and whether 
he did so with the consent of the respondent ? 


2060 


THE GAZETTE OF INDJA ; MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKTIA 14 , 1890 


[Part II 


12 . Whether the respondent along with the Sub - Divişional Officer (Civil ) 

Narsinghpur and Tahsildar, Narsinghpur supervised the construction of 
à rostrum for the public meeting at Narsinghpur on 16th February 
1967 and told trein that the arrangement should be so made as to 
ensure maximum benefit for the election of the respondent froin the 

visit of the Chief Minister ? 
13 . Whether Naib Tahsildar Shri Balmakund Gupta took leave and did the 

propoganda work for the respondent as his agent with his consent 
and If so , whether this amounted to a corrupt practice Under Section 

123 ( 7 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 ? 
14 . Whether the corrupt practices alleged in the petition have materially 

allected the result of the election so far as the respondent is concernect 

and it so , is the election void ? 
15 . Whether the petitioner has not complied with the provisions of Section 

81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, in - as -much as no 
copy of the telegram , referred to in para 7 ( V ) of the petition , has 
bean Aled for being supplied to the respondent? If so , whether the 

petition is not properly presented and ought to be disinissed ? 
16 . Whether the petitioner, by not filing one copy of thc alleged faked 

ballot - paper with the copy or the petition for belng supplied to the 
respondent has violated the provision of Section 31 ( 3 ) of the Represen 
tation of the People Act, 1951 ? If so , whether the petition is not 
properly presented and ought to be dismissed ? 


Issues No. 15 and 16 were heard as preliminary and my findings thereon were 
recorded by my order dated 20th of November 1967. It was held with reference 
to issue No. 15 that there was no non - compliance of Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Represen 
tation of llie People Act because of petitioner s failure to file copies of telegrams 
and that the petition was not liable to be dismissed on that account under Section 
88 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the People Act. With reference to issue No . 16 , 
it was heid that the petitioner by not supplying the copy of the faked ballot paper 
referred to at the comirencement of para . 6 of the petition to the respondent 
has not violated Section 81 ( 3 ) of the Representation of the People Aut. 

I shall now proceed to record my findings on issues from 1 to 14 . Out of 
these issues , issue No. 4 , 6 and 7 are not pressed on behalf of the petitioner . 
I also think that the materials are not sufficient on record to justify my interference 
in favour of the pctitioner with reference to them . I would , therefore , not find it 
nccessary to give reasoned findings with reference to these issues. 

Issue No , 2 ( ) . — There is hardly any positive and direct evidence led by the 
petitioner to establish that Pandit D . P . Mishra was instrumental in selecting the 
respondení as a Congress candidate from Hoshangabad -Narsinghpur parliamentary 
constituency . This ground is based on the averment that at the time of selection 
of Congress candidates, there was a sharp cleavage of opinions between several 
internal groups in the Congress . No evidence is led to prove the existence of 
such internal groups and their rivalry so far as the selection of a candidate for 
the parliainentary constituency of Hoshangabad -Narsinghpur of Madhya Pradesh 
was concerned . Much wind is taken out of the sails as to this ground when it 
is not established that some other Congress candidate had asked for a ticket from 
this constituency but he was refused a ticket due to intervention of Shri D . P . 
Mishra in the Central Election Committee . This ground , therefore , is found 
against the petitioner . 

Issues No. 1 . 2 ( b ) and 3 (( ) and ( b ) . - All these issues can conveniently be con 
sidered together as they involve a common plank set up by the petitioner that 
Pandit D . P . Mishra acted as the agent of the respondent and he , with the res 
pondent s consent. got published declarations and made speeches at Narsinghpur 
and Piparia on 16th February 1967 throwing out bait ( i ) to the agriculturist - voters 
holding lan less than 7 . 50 acres or paying land revenue not exceeding Rs. 5 that 
such land would be made revenue free and ( ii) to the Government employees of 
Class II and IV that they would get increased dearness allowance from 1st April 
1967 According to rates sanctioned for Central Government employees by that 
Government. 
Questions to be considered with reference to both these issues are : 
( 11 Whether Pandit D . P . Mishra did make declarations and speeches on 

10111 February 1967 at Narsinghpur and Piparia making the aforesaid 


Src. 9(ii)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 11, 1890 


2061 


declaration of the Government actions with reference to exemption 
of small holdings from land revenue and to award of increased dear 

ness allowulice to Government employees of Class III and IV . 
(2 ) Whether , in doing so , he acted as the agent of the respondent with his 

consent. 
( 3 ) Whether the respondent had accorded either an express or implied con 

sent to Shri D . P . Mishra in making such declarations in support of 

his candidature . 
( 4 ) Whether the declarations alleged amount to a corrupt practice of bribery 

under the circumstances in which they were made. 
I shall first consider the first of the aforesaid four questions involved in the 
aforesaid issues . This question is one of fact. 

The petitioner s evidence on this point consists of ( i ) Puranlal Tiwari ( P . W . 5 ) . 
( ii ) l?ashuraj Prasad ( P . W . 6 ) , ( iii) Ramchandra Maheshwari ( P . W . 7 ) . 
( Iv ) Jagutiüthprasad ( P . W . 29 ) and ( v ) the petitioner Shri H . V . Kamath ( P . W . 36 ) 
himself . Puranlal Tiwari is a printer and owns a Printing Press at Itarsi. In this 
Press . 2500 copies ot the pamphlet such as Ex . P - 2 were prinied . The original 
manuscript piven for printing is produced at Ex . P - 1 . It purports to bear the 
signature of Shri Shcokishorc Dixit. According to Puranlal Tlwari he handed over 
the copi: s of Ex . P - 2 to Sheokishore Dixit who had signed the declaration form 
This pamphlet vas published under the signature of SheokIshore Dixit who clairner 
himself to be a voler of Mandal Hoshangabad . The pamphlet described the 
decision of the Madhya Pradesh Government of exeinpting land up to 7. 5 acres 
Crom laid revenue as beirg revolutionary and welcome. It further recites that 
Deiinit this decision of the Government of Madhya Pradesh , there is undoubted 
opinion of the Government that a Bhumiswamiwith land up to 7.5 acres or paying 
land revenue up to Rs. 5 can hardly maintain himself or to make improvenient of 
his land . He cannot also raise the status of his family and that consequently , it 
was 2 : 1 proper to recover land rovenue from such farmers. This revolutionary 
derisi. l . it is sald , would benefit 00 per cent of the cultivators . The pamphlet 
further Warred avainst a false propaganda in this connection that the exemption 
oť such holding from land revenue would last only for one year and no takavi 
loan 01, be had on such land and that such land would become Government 
land . It expected from the agriculturists that they should not fall prey to such 
false pr . paganda and lastly , there is appeal to the voters to make the Congress 
Suilles . ful (at the polls ) . 


It is not cheur from the evidence oil record as to what connection is there 
between Sheokishore Dixit and either Shri D . P . Mishra or the respondent. P . W . 6 
Raghuraj Prasad of Baskheda , in his stateurent, says that he had attended the 
meeting at Piparia which had taken place four days prior to the date of polling 
When ire reached there. Shri D , P . Mishra had been addressing the meeting . In 
his speechi, Shri D . P . Mishra had given out a slogan , Lagan Maal , Jan Sangh Saal . 
After Mr. Mishra finished his speech , the witness left the mceting. In his cross 
Examination , the witness admitted that Shri Mishra , in his speech , had addressed 
tlle voters about what the Congress Government had achieved in the past and 
what they proposed to do in future in case they were returned to power . 


P . W . 7 Ramchandra Maheshwari stated about the public meeting at Piparia 
on 16th February 1967 convcned on behalf of the Congress Party . In this meeting , 
besides D . P . Mishra , other persons who were present included the respondent. 
S . S . N . Mushran , Ratan Kumeri Devi and Tulsiram Katakwar. In the meeting , 
Shri D . P . Mishra , according to him , had stated about exemption of holdings of 
7 . 50 сres and less from land revenue. As regards, the Slogan raised by Jan 
Sangh Lagan Maaf. Jamin Saal o suggested a modification Lagan Maaf, Virodhi 
Party Suat . lle also emphasized in his speech , according to the witness , upon 
the salaries ui Government employees and assured that their salaries would be 
brought in line with the Central Government employees . The witness mentioned 
the presence of the respondent in this meeting but he admittedly did not add 
anything to the specch made by D . P . Mishra. All that he said was that he had 
hardly anything to add after Shri D . P . Mishra s speech . In his cross - examination , 
the witriess admitted that it was the programme of the Praja Socialist Party , to 
which hc Lelonged , to free the un - economic holdings from land revenue. Un 
- 6000 ie holding s , according to him , would include holdings of small size , Other 
Siates in India who had taken up that programme included Orissa and Andhra 
Pradesi:. As regards the Class III and IV employees of the Government, the 
witness admitted that they had been agitating for ircreased dearness allowance 
since in prior to the date of election and had actually given Strike notice to he 


2062 


THE GAZETTE OR INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


[PART II 


operative from one week prior to the date of polling. He admitted that for success 
ful carrying out of election work , co - operation of Government employees of Class 
III and IV was indispensable . 

P . W . 29 Jagannath Prasad stated that in the public meeting at Narsinghpur held 
on 16th February , 1967, Shri D . P . Mishra had stated that he had already got 
relief works opened , land revenue had also been remitted on land measuring 
less than 7 acres. At the close of the meeting , Shri Mishra raised a slogan Lagan 
Maaf, Sab Party Saaf . In this meeting , according to him , Choudhary Nitiraj 
singh was shown by Shri D . P . Mishra as the Congress candidate for the parlia 
mentary constituency of Hoshangabad - Narsinghpur and that his contestant was 
Shri Kamath , 

The petitioner , in his statement, did not speak about the alleged declarations. 
But he admitted that his Party was committed to the policy of freeing un 
economic holdings from land revenue since last five years . According to him , 
one of the members of P . S . P ., Shri Jamnaprasad Mishra had actually introduced 
a resolution in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly for that purpose as for back as in 
1984 but the same was opposed on behalf of the Congress members of the Assemb 
ly including the then Chief Minister , D . P . Mishra and the resolution had been 
lost. He also admitted that there was long standing demand on behalf of the 
Class III and IV employees of the State Government for increase of dearness 
allowance. The demand was rejected in December , 1966. Just on the eve of the 
election , these employees gaye Strike notice to be operative from 12th or 13th of 
February, 1967, The Congress Government then , according to him , all of 
a sudden changed its stand and decided to give dearness allowance to them . 
The petitioner , in his statement, produced the notice issued by the Sangharsha 
Samiti of non - gazetted Government Servants dated 11th February , 1967, Ex . P - 51 
and the circular letter issued by the Finance Department to all departments of 
the Government, Ex. P - 52 dated 11th May , 1967 . 

It is not disputed by the respondent that public meetings were held on the 
18th at Narsinghpur and Piparla and he was present at those meetings . But he 
denied that he had made any speech at those meetings beyond a formal state 
ment either of welcoming the main speaker or to the effect that he had nothing 
to say over and above what had been said . 

Having regard to the aforesaid evidence , it scems fairly established that 
Pandit D . P . Mishra did visit Kandeli , Narsinghpur and Plparia on the 16th and 
made speeches at those places . It is not disputed that prior to the date of the 
meeting 2. e ., 16th February , 1967, an ordinance had already been issued by the 
Governor exempting holdings of less than 7 . 5 acres or paying land - revenue 
not exceeding Rs. 5 from land revenue. It was issued late in December or 
early part of January . There is no evidence worth the name to the effect that 
Shri Mishra had , in his address at those meetings , said that the ordinance re 
garding exempting un - cconomic holdings from land revenue would become an 
Act of the legislature of the State only if the Congress was returned to power . 
A bare reference of what has been done during the Congress regime or future 
programme or commitments of the Party cannot be regarded as offer of any 
bribe or bait to induce the voters to vote for the Congress Party . 

As regards class III and Class IV employees of the Government, their agita 
tion for a dearness allowance at par with the Central Government employees , 
was going on since long . It appears from Ex . P -51 that they had given notice 
of striking work from 13th February, 1967, in case their demends were not con 
ceded . The general elections were approaching and for their successful carry 
ing out, the co - operation of these Class III and IV employees was indispensable 
and without them the whole of the election programme would have come to a 
stand still . In these circumstances , the demand which was not un - reasonable 
had been conceded by the then Government to prevent the election work from 
collapsing . It cannot be said that it was a bribe or an offer of gratification to 
induce the voters to vote for the Congress . 


It is not the case of the petitioner that Pandit D . P . Mishra was an agent of 
the respondent by any direct appointment as such by the respondent. Evidence 
is hardly worth mentioning for establishing that he, by his acts and conduct , 
could well be taken to be his agent. His going to Narsinghpur or Piparia or 
elsewhere to address public meeting in connection with the general electlons 
which were approaching cannot be regarded as sufficient to prove his agency of 
the respondent. It is suggested on behalf of the petitioner that the respondent 
had set up no independent machinery to connection with his election at various 
places in his constituency and must have depended entirely upon the support 


SEC. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2063 


of the party candidates to the Assembly or of the men of the Congress Party 
working there . The whole Congress Party in that sense , it is said , had become 
the agent of the respondent and Pandit Mishra , as a prominent member of the 
Party , was consequently an agent. The contention in that form was not put up . 
But even assuming that to be the case , there is nothing to establish that he had 
acted in the commission of the alleged corrupt practice with the consent of the 
respondent. 

As regards the publication of the declarations such as Ex . P - 2 , there is no 
evidence except that of Puranlal Tiwari about the publication of the pamphlet , 
Ex . P - 2 . The evidence on record is not sufficient to establish that Sheokishore 
Dixit had been prompted by D . P . Mishra to issue it and he did so either on 
behalf of the Party or at the dictates of Shri D , P . Mishra . There is also no 
evidence that for such publication the respondent had accorded his consent, 
Moreover, as already seen , neither the speeches of D . P . Mishra nor the slogans 
raised by him about which there is some difference can really be considered to 
be objectionable nor can they be regarded as amounting offer of bait or bribe 
to the electors . 

While dealing with the question of consent a point was raised on behalf of 
the petitioner : whether consent contemplated under Section 100 ( b ) involves 
double consent of the respondent viz ., first consent to the agent acting as such 
and the second consent for the particular corrupt practice attributed to the 
agent. It is said that once the agency of the political party is established , 
consent of the respondent for acting by the party organisation as a whole and 
by members of the Party in particular , can fairly be presumed . If then this is 
presumed , it is said , further proof by the petitioner for the particular corrupt 
practice is not requied . On a fair reading of Section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 100 ( 2 ) , 
it is said , once the agency of a person or body is established , there would be 
presumption that the said person or party had committed an act held establish 
ed with the consent of the successful candidate of the party and burden would 
shift on to such candidate that he had given specific instructions to the agent 
concerned not to comit that corrupt practice and had not accorded his consent. 
In short , it is contended that in the case of an agent, it is enough to establish 
agency . Under the circumstances consent to such agency is established , then it 
is for the candidate concerned to prove that as indicated above. 

In order to appreciate the above contentions, it would be necessary to 
examine the material provisions having bearing on this question in light of 
authorities particularly of this Court . These material provisions are Sections 
99 ( 2 ) , 100 ( 1 ) (b ) and ( d ) , 100 ( 2 ) and Section 123 , explanation I at the foot of 
Section 123 . 

Section 99 ( 2 ) . In this Section and Section 100 , the expression agent has the 
same meaning as in Section 123. 

Section 100 ( 1 ) . Subject to the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) ff High Court 1g 
of opinion 

( b ) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or 
hiş election agent or by any other person with the consent of a returned candidate 
or his election agent; or 

( d ) that the regult of the election , in so far as it concerns a retuined candi 
date , has been materially affected 

(il) by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candi 
date by an agent other than his election agent, the High Court shall declare the 
election of the returned candidate to be void . 


Section 100 ( 2 ) . The High Court may decide that the election of the returned 
candidate is not void if in its opinion , a returned candidato has been guilty by an 
agent, other than his election agent, of any corrupt practice but it is satisfied - - 


( a ) that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by the candi 
date or his election agent, and every such corrupt practice was committed con 
trary to the orders , and without the consent of the candidate or his election 
agent. 


Section 123 Explanation ( 1 ) . In the section the expression agent includes an 
election agent, & polling agent any any person who is held to have acted as an 
agent in connection with the election with the consent of the candidate . 


2064 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART 11– 


It is clear by reference to sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 99 that the expression 
agent is used in the same sense in Section 99 , 100 and 123 as explained in the 
explanation ( 1 ) at the foot of Section 123. It includes an election agent, a 
polling agent and any person who is held to have acted as an agent with the 
consent of the candidate . The consent need not be express but could be implied 
and is liable to be inferred from the surrounding circumstances and conduct of 
the candidate and the person acting for the candidate . 

Now bearing this meaning of the term agent we shall proceed to consider the 
grounds for declaring an election to be void as provided in Section 100 . 

Şection 100 ( 1 ) consists of four parts. Parts ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) relate to grounds 
on the existence of which the election of a candidate has to be declared void 
irrespective of the fact whether the result of the election was materially affected 
due to its existence or otherwise . Part ( d ) , however , deals with the grounds 
which require for declaring the election void that the result of the election , so 
far as the returned candidate is concerned , should be materially affected . 

Part (b ) of Section 100 ( 1) deals with the corrupt practice committed either 
by the returned candidate himself or his election agent or by any other person 
with the consent of the returned candidate . In each of such cases, the election 
has to be declared void , It seems from this that for the purpose of this part, 
commission of corrupt practice either by the returned candidate or his election 
agent is placed on the same footing and where this is proved . nothing further is 
needed for declaring the election vold . But where a corrupt practice is cornmitted 
by any person other than the aforesaid two persons i.e ., the candidate himself or 
his election agent, it is further required that the corrupt practice should have 
been committed with the consent of at least either of them , 

The explanation clause in Section 123 regarding the meaning of the expression 
agent indicates that for constituţing a person an agent of the returned candidate 
except in the cases of election and polling agent. It is necessary that such person 
should have acted as such with his consent . 

Thus, rcading Section 100 ( b ) with the explanation clause with reference to 
the expression agent it seems that where a corrupt practice is attributed to an 
agent other than an clection or polling agent, in order that the election can be 
held void due to it , such person should , in the first place , have acted in connec 
tion with the election with the consent of the candidate and in the second place, 
the particular corrupt practice should have been proved to have been committed 
by such person with the consent of either of the returned candidate or his elec 
tion agent. Where the corrupt practice is attributed to a polling agent, such 
consent for acting in connection with the election need not be separately estab 
lished as it is self evident, that he acts in connection with clection with his con 
sent. In his case , candidate s consent with reference to the particular corrupt 
practice committed by the pooling - agent is enough . Such consent need not 
always be express. It could be implied and can be proyed by surrounding circum 
stances Including acts and conduct of the persons concerned . 

Next question to be considered is whether this view as to the meaning and 
scope of Section 100 ( b ) is liable to be modified by anything contained in Section 
100 ( 2 ) ( a ) . The reading of this section indicates that where an agent other than 
an election agent commits a corrupt practice but the returned candidate satisfies 
the High Court that he had committed such practice contrary to his order or 
without his consent or that of his election agent then the election need not be 
declared void . 


Does this mean that in the case of an agent other than an election agent there 
would be a presumption that it had been committed with the consent of the re 
turned candidate ? If such a meaning is assumed , we will have to read with ex 
pression any other person in Section 100 ( b ) as excluding an agent other than 
an election agent. This would be incosistent with that Section and Sectian 123 , 
explanation I defining the term agent . The provisions in Section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 
100 ( 2 ) would in this respect make a consistent reading if Section 100 ( 2 ) with 
reference to an agent other than an election agent is confined to Section 100 ( 1 ) 
( d ) . It will mean that where it is shown by a petitioner that a corrupt practice 
is committed by an agent and as a result of commission of such corrupt practice , 
the regult of the election is materially affected , the successful candidate can yet 
have his election declared void in case he establisheg that the agent concerned had 
Acted contrary to his instructions and without his consent. Thus, it is clear that 
the aforesaid view as to the meaning and scope of Section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) need not be 
modified by any thing contained in Section 100 ( 2 ) ( a ) . Such reading of Section 


Sro. 3 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2065 


100 ( 1 ) (b ) , 100 ( 2 ) ( a ) and Section 123, explanation ( 1) Ands support from the 
decisions of Rajasthan High Court in XVI Election Law Reports, 108 Sheopat 
Singh V . Harish Chandra , and of this Court in XX Election law Reports 275 , 
Sarla Devi Pathak V . Birendra Singh and others . In the last mentioned case, it 
was observed by the Division Bench in para 50 of the Report: 

" It may be noted that though the acts specified in section 123 of the Act 

shall be deeined to be corrupt practices when done by any person , 
whether a candidate , his agent or by any other person unconnected 
with the candidate , section 100 ( 1 ) ( b ) provides that the election of 
a returned candidate can be declared to be void i any corrupt prac 
tice is committed by a returned candidate or his election agent or by 
any other person with the consent of a returned candidate or his 
election agent. In the definition of "agent in Explanation ( I) to 
Section 123 ( 7 ) of the Act , the expression agent includes an election 
agent, a polling agent and any person who is held to have acted as 
an agent in connection with the election with the consent of the 
candidate . It would be observed that if a person is not an election 
agent, or a polling agent, then acting with the consent of the candi 
date , has been made a necessary ingredient to constitute him an agent 
of the candidate . But, apart from this , it the election of the appel 
lant is to be avoided her consent, or the consent of her election 
agent would have to be established in order to fix her with the 
liability for the corrupt practice committed by persons other than 
her election agent. Consent is a question of fact in every case . It 
may be expressed or implied . It may be inferred from the acts and 
conduct of the returned candidate or from other facts and circum 
stances established in the case. But the mere fact that the acts of 
other persons helped and supported the election campaign of the re : 
turned candidate would not be enough . Even non - interference with 
the activities of persons who may be acting in support of his canvass 
will not, without something more, be sufficient to saddle the returned 
candidate with the liability for the corrupt practices connected by 

them . " 
The aforesaid observations of the Division Bench make it clear that it is for 
the petitioner who wishes to avoid the election on the basis of a corrupt practice 
committed by an agent other than an election or a polling agent, to prove in the 
first place that such person has acted with the consent of the successful candidate 
whose election is to be avoided and in the second place to prove that particular 
corrupt practice attributed to the agent was committed with his consent. Such 
c onsent, of coursc , need not be expressed . It could be implied and can be establish 
ed with aid of surrounding circumstances including the acts and con 
duct of the persons concerned . Having regard to this view of the legal posi 
tion , the contention raised on behalf of the petitioner is untenable. Issues No. 
2 (b ) and 3 ( a ) and ( b ) are consequently found against the petitioner. 

Issue No. 4 ( a ) and (6 ) , - This issue is not pressed on behalf of the petitioner . 

Issole No. 5 ( a ) and ( b ) , — The pctitioner s case on this issue is that Shri S . S , N . 
Mushran had been acting as the agent of the respondent throughout the period of 
election and that in that capacity and with a view to augment the respondent s 
chances of election , he paid Rs. 200 for continuance of the post-office at Singhpur 
which the postal authorities had been thinking of closing down as uneconomic and 
thereby induced the villagers to vote for the respondent. The respondent has 
denied the averment. To prove the facts involved in the petitioner s averment 
with reference to this issue, three witnesses were examined on his behalf. They 
are P . W . 16 Nanhobir , P . W . 17 Bakshi and P . W . 18 Pannalal. 

According to Nanhobir , who is the Up -Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat at 
Singhpur, the post -omce had existed in his village since last 8 or 10 years but 
about a year and a half before there was a move to abolish it as being uneconomic . 
The postmaster , Onkarprasad had suggested to the Gram Panchayat that if they 
wanted the post - office to continue the Panches and the residents of Singhpur 
should subsidise it . Thereupon , according to the witness , Ramaji Sarpanch , Gram 
Panchayat, gavę Rs. 200 from his pocket. This took place about 8 or 10 days 
before the date of polling . The witness denied that the amount had been with 
drawn from the Panchayat fund lying in deposit in Siregaon for subsidlsing the 
post - office till the date of polling. In his Cross - examination , he stated that a 
meeting of the Gram Panchayat had taken place about 2 months before the date 
of polling to consider the question of continuance of the post - office at Singhpur 
and that in that meeting there was a proposal to spend money from the Grain 
Panchayat fund for subsidising the post - office. The Sarpanch Ramaji then told 
that the money would not be spent from the Panchayat fund . In the second 


2066 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1969 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


nieeting of the Gram Panchayat held about 8 or 10 days before the date of 
polling , it was decided to spent Rs. 200 for that purpose out of the Panchayat 
fund . This was done, according to him , because villagers were insisting upon 
the continuance of the post - olce . He admitted that in the preceding year deficit 
was fcund by the postal authorities o the exent of Rs. 234 . The Resolution of 
the Gram Panchayat about such spending and the proceedings of the meeting 
dated 11th February 1967 were as indicated in the certified copy of the Register 
of Gram Panchayat, Ex D - 2 . Rupees 200 were paid to the post -master and a 
receipt was obtained from him and this was counter - signed by him . 

P . W . 17 Bakshi is another member of the Gram Panchayat. He also spoke 
about the meeting of the Gram Panchayat to consider the question of continuance 
of the post - office at Singhpur. It had taken place , according to him , about 2 
months before the date of polling. In that meeting , Sarpanch Ramaji had said 
that Government fund received by Gram Panchayat for its activitics could not 
be spent for subsidişing the post - office . On this statement of Sarpanch , sanction 
was not made . But about 8 Or 10 days before the date of polling , money was 
pald by the Sarpanch for that purpose . A meeting had taken place subsequent 
to such payment for sanctioning the amount paid by the Sarpanch . This nieeting 
was not attended by this witness although he admitted that he had information 
about the proceedings of that meeting . After the second meeting, he was asked 
to sign the proceedings but he refused to do so because of inconsistency in the 
attitude of the Sarpanch Ramaji on that point. Tho witness denied knowledge 
as to whether the amount was spent out of Gram Panchayat fund or otherwise . 
He stated that about a fortnight prior to the date of polling Shri Mushran , 
Nitiraj Babu and Tahkur of Piparia had come. Sarpanch Ramaji was also there . 
They all had met the villagers under & Pipal tree. There villagers had then 
asked the Sarpanch to do something about the post -office. Shri Mushran had then 
promised to do something for the diſculty of the villagers. 

The third witness upon the point is P . W . 18 Pannalal , School-Master at Siregaon 
who was entrusted with the work of post - office there . According to him , Rs. 200 
were not found to be debited in the Savings Bank Account of the Gram Panchayat, 
Singhpur in 1966 - 67 or 1967- 68 . 

As against this evidence , the respondent has examined D . W . 9 Dwarkaprasad , 
Gram Sahayak , Singhpur. According to him , a copy of the letter had been 
received by the Gram Panchayat, Ex . D - 15 , dated 3rd February 1967 asking the 
Officer - in - charge of the post - office to call upon the Gram Panchayat to deposit 
Rs. 234 . 60 P . which was the amount of loss incurred by the postal department in 
continuing the post-office at Singhpur in case they wanted the post -office to 
continue for a period of one year from 28th February 1967 to 26th February 1968 
and to warn that in case the amount was not deposited the post- office would 
be abolished from 26th February 1967 and further directing the officer concerned 
to close down the post - office by that dato in case the amount was not deposited . 

The witness ( D . W . 9 Dwarkaprasad ) further stated that on receipt of this 
letter a meeting of the Gram Panchayat was convened on 11th February 1987 
to consider the matter and a resolution was passed in that meeting that the 
amount of loss incurred by the post - office of Rs. 234 . 60 P . in continuing the 
post- office in their village might be paid from the Panchayat fund and that in 
case , there was any objection raised for spending this amount thus, all the 
mernber of the Gram Panchayat would be jointly responsible for the same and 
Sarpanch would not be individually liable . This was Ex . D - 2 . The resolution 
was signed by Nanhebir , Up- Sarpanch as well . Thereafter , money as paid , accord 
ing to him , from the Panchayat fund to the post -office under receipt Ex. D - 10 
dated 11th February 1967. The receipt indicated that the amount was paid in 
the presenno of several Panches who had put their signatures upon it and this 
Included Nanhebir . The account register of the Gram Panchayat showed tha 
debit of Rs. 200 to Gram Panchayat fund , Ex . D - 17 . 

Having regard to this evidence . It is clear that the petitioner s case that it 
was SS, N Mushran who paid Rs. 200 personally acting as the agent of the 
rospondent to induce the voters of Singhpur to vote for the respondent and that 
too with his consent is not made out at all. The evidence shows beyond doubt 
that the postal department was unwilling to continue he post -office at Singhpur 
which had been running at a loss. They wanted the villagers or the Gram 
Panchayat to subsidise the Post -office in case they wanted the post -office to 
continue for a year beyond 28th February 1967. The Gram Panchayat , which 
was earlier unwilling to spend anything from the Panchayat fund decided to pay 
Rs. 200 from the Panchayat fund and all jointly undertook to bear any loss in 


Sec. $ (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1990 


2067 


case a valid objection was raised by the Government for such spending. The 
suggestion dade in the statements of P . W . 16 Nanhebir and P . W . 17 Bakshi that 
the money was paid personally by Rainaji is totally false . The evidence , more 
over, in no way connects S . S . N . Mushran with this payment. Nanhebir , who 
was the UV- Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat, has actually countersigned tlie 
receipt regarding payment to the post- office under resolution of the Gram Panchayat 
which too was signed by him . The second witness P . W . 17 Bakshi was not at 
all present in the second meeting dated 11th February 1967 in which the resolution 
was passed by the Panchayat sanctioning the payment of Rs. 200 . Thus, this 
issue Nc. 5 is found against the petitioner . 

As already stated , issues No. 6 and 7 are not present on behalf of the petillöner . 
There is practically no reliable evidence to prove that the respondent accompanied 
Babulal Jain , a Congress candidate from Bohani Legislative Assembly constituency , 
had been to Karapgaon to induce the voters to vote for the Congress candidates 
viz . the respondent and Babulal Jain by assuring them to secure opening of a 
High Schoox there . Babulal Jain has denied the averments on oath as also the 
respondent. I here is also no rellable evidence to establish that the Congress Party , 
as the agent of the respondent, persuaded the then Congress Government to 
remove the ban on the export of Gulabi Chana for a short period from 1st 
February 1967 to 15th February 1967 and that on such removal of the ban , permits 
were secured to Seth Bhojraj, Tulsiram Agrawal and Ramchandra Pethia of Kareli 
to induce them to vote for the respondent. The respondent has denied these 
averments on oath . These issues No . 6 and 7 are consequently found against the 
petitioner 


I ssue No, 8 . - This is one of the hotly contested issues . The averments of the 
petitioner with reference to this issue are firstly , that the repondent and his 
agents Babulal Jain , Munshi Harprasad , Harishankar Sthapak , Khubchand Khera, 
Komalchand Aknepuria and Tejram Kaurava stated before the voters on 15th 
February 1967 at Narsinghpur and on 16th February 1967 at Gadarwara and 
Piparia that Shri Hari Vishnu Kamath had withdrawn his candidature and that 
his election symbol namely , Hut no longer existed and secondly , that faked 
ballot papers sucn as Ex . P - 4 were distributed by them which failed to indicate 
"but as against the name of the petitioner to gve a false impression that he had 
withdrawn frorn the election contest. The respondent admitted in his pleading 
that fake or dunny ballot papers such as Ex. P - 4 had , in fact, been got printed 
and published on the District Congress Committee . But he denied that either 
he or any ui his agents had represented to the electorate that the petitioner s 
Symbol no longer existed or that he had withdrawn from the contest, at any of 
the places and on any of the dates mentioned by the petitioner or during the 
perio l of 10 days prior to the date of polling . The respondent s presence at 
the time of alleged distribution either at Narsinghpur or Gadarwara was also 
denied . Witnesses relied upon on behalf of the petitioner on this issue are P . W . 6 
Raghurajsingh , P . W . 7 Ramchandra Maheshwari, P . W . 30 Dewabai, P . W . 23 
Devicharan P . W . 25 Gurcharan Gupta , P . W . 27 Brijmohandas , P . W . 29 Jagannath 
prasad , P . W . 30 Harprasd Barela , P . W . 31 Takhatsingh and P . W . 32 Ganeshprasad . 

According t¢ P . W . 6 Raghurajsingh , Nakali Matpatra ( faked ballot paper ) 
such as Ex P - 4 had been distributed at Piparia and several other villages. 
Komalsingh Akhepuria , according to him , then had said that Shri Kamath no 
longer need be considered and that only thing to be borne in mind was to vote 
for the Congress having the symbol of a pair of bullocks. Komalsingh then 
according 10 the witness , did not tell them why blank space was left against the 
name of Hari Vishnu Kamath in Ex . P - 4 and that consequently , he carried the 
impression that Shri Kamath had not been standing for the election . The witness 
adinitted in his Cross - examination that he was fully aware of the fact that Shri 
Kamath had stoud for the election and had not withdrawn . According to hin , 
he had come at the mecting at Piparia addressed by Shri D . P . Mishra when 
he had started his speech and left the meeting on completion of his specchi. 
Other evidence to which reference hereafter will be made indicated that distribution 
of faked ballot papers had taken place at the close of the meeting at Piparla 
and while the voters were leaving That evidence would suggest that Faghuraj. 
singh could not have been present then . Moreover, even according to his state 
ment Komaisingin Akhepurla had merely said that Shri Kamath need no longer 
be considered . He had not stated that Shri Kamath had withdrawn or that his 
symbol namely but no longer existed . It was the idea of the witness himself 
that probably he was not standing for the election . But even as to this alleged 
impression rf his , the witness is not firm , because in his cross -examination he 
admitted tljaz he was fully awire of the fact that Shri Kamath was standing 
at the election and had not withdrawn . 


2068 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


[Part II 


P . W . 7 Ramachandra Maheshwari stated in para 6 of his statement that about 
10 days before the date of polling faked ballot papers such as Ex . P -4 were 
distributed in the town of Piparia . They were distributed continuously , according 
to him , till the date of polling Workers including Harprasad Barela and others , 
he sald , had come and complained to him that erroneous and false propaganda 
was being made on the basis of these faked ballot papers . It seems from the 
above statement of the witness that his knowledge about the distribution of faker 
ballot papers such as Ex . P -4 in the town of Piparia during he period of 10 days 
next before the date of polling is derived from the complaints he had received 
from his workers Harprasad Barela and others. Besides Harprasad ( P . W . 30 ), 
name of other workers was not disclosed by this witness nor was any examined . 

Harprasad (PW . 30 ) , in his statement, said that while he had been to Itwarta . 
Bazar in the town of Piparia about four days prior to the date of polling , he 
found Komalsingh Akhepuria distributing faked ballot papers such as Ex: P - 4 
and P - 6 and telſing the rural population visiting the bazar that Shri Kamaih 
had withdrawn ( Baith Gaye ) and that there was nobody on behalf of P . S . P . 
He found fault with him for distributing such faked ballot papers and making 
such untrue assertioris . When he spoke that way, according to him , Komalsingh 
left the place and went over a distance of 20 or 25 paces , He then did not 
thereafter hear what ne said . The witness admitted that he is a member of 
P . S . P . for the last 3 or 4 years and had worked on behalf of the party . He 
admitted that he made propaganda in the town of Piparia for about a fortnight 
till 17th February 1407 1. e . three days before the date of polling . There wore 
besides him other workers or P . S . P . who carried on propaganda with the aid of 
loud - speakers. They did go for a fortnight upto 17th February 1967 . When 
asked to name a person whom Komalsingh Akhepuria had been telling in Itwaria 
that Shri Kamath had withdrewn four days before the date of polling , he could 
not do $ o . It may be recalled that on the 16th , there was public meeting 
addressed by D . P . Mishra in which he had mentioned Shri Kamath as the candi 
date of P . Ş . P . cpposing the Congress candidate Choudhry Nitirajsingh . Having 
regard to these circunstances as to continued propaganda on behalf of the petitioner 
till 17th , it is hichly improbable that Komalsingh would say to the voters on 
the 16th that Shri Kamath had withdrawn , I am , therefore , not inclined to ploce 
reliance upon what Harprasad had stated about Komalsingh Akhepurla . Since 
Ramchandra Maheshwari s statement is based on what this witness complained 
to him and he has not named any other worker complaining to him , his state 
ment is hardly helpful to the petitioner . 

We shall next consider the statement of P . W . 10 Dewabai. She is a Sarpanch 
of Gram Panchayat, Delwada. According to her , during the general elections of 
1967 the responent and an Assembly candidate Raten Kumari Devi had met her 
at Bankhedi. After the respondent was introduced to the witness by Ratankumari 
Devi as the Congress candidate for the parliamentary constituency , the former 
( 1. e . Dewabai ) asked the respondent whether Shri Kamath was also standing : 
Thereupon , the respondent answered , No , he is not standing , His cottage 19 
blown up (Unki Jhopadi Ud Gayi ) . At that time, according to the witness , she 
was given a paper containing the statement that the land revenue of cultivators 
had been remitted . That paper , according to her , was different from Ex , P - 6 . 
At the time of handlng over to her Ex . P - 6 by the respondent, he was alleged to 
have said to her thai she was to put her seal on the pair of bullocks and on 
nothing else and further that if Shri Kamath had been standing , his symbol 
would have appeared on Ex , P -6 . But since it is not there, he was not standing . 
Tha witness admitted that she was aware of the fact that if there was a single 
candidate in the fiel , there is no occasion for voting and yet, she did not ask 
the respondent why it was necessary to vote if he alone was a candidate , Kamath 
having withdrawn . Shri disclaimed knowledge as to whether propaganda on 
behalf of Shri Kamath had continued after her talk as described above . She 
admitted that on 18th February 1967, she had seen symbol of cottage pasted on 
the walls in her village. The witness asserted that she was a congress worker. 


17 Jesuprising that the witness claiming herself to be a Congress candidate , 
should have come at a witness against the Party , abount the Congress candidate 
having misrepresented that Shri Kamath had withdrawn . The witness appears to 
be not rellable . Her evidence about the respondent having stated to her about 
the withdrawal of candidature of Shri Kamath is un -natural and unworthy af 
bellel . The witness does not give the date on which this talk place but admitted 
that she had noticed the symbol of cottage ( P . S . P . ) on the walls of her villago 
bouse til 18th February 1967. It cannot be believed that the respondent who is 
an Advocate of some standing on being put a direct question as to whether 


DEC, 3 ( 1) ] 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2069 


Shri Kamath was also standing, could have answered in the negative , particularly 
when propaganda on behalf of Shri Kamath was continuing with the aid of loud 
speaker . I would reject the evidence of this witness as un -believable . 

P . W . 23 Devicharan is a worker on behalf of P . S . P . According to him , faked 
ballot papers were distributed in Itwaria bazar of Narsinghpur such as Ex. P - 4 
and P -6 Khubchand Khera . He saw him doing so at the close of the public 
meeting at Narsinghpur on 16th February 1967. He was asked by Shri Kamath 
by a trunk call message on the 17th of February 1967 to collect some of the faked 
ballot papers distributed on behalf of the respondent. Thereupon , he asked one 
Tikaram to go to the Congress office and secure certain ballot papers such as 
Ex . P - 4 and P - 0 . Tikaram accordingly went there and brought some. The game 
night Shri Kainath addressed a meeting in which this fact about the distribution 
of faked ballot popers was referred by him . According to him , propaganda on 
behalf of Shri Kamath had taken place with the aid of loud - speakers upto 18th 
when it was stopped . The witness admitted that he was the polling agent of 
Shri Kamath . He admitted that pamphlets , which were cyclostyled , were dis 
tributed on behalf of P . S . P . which contained the symbol of cottage and on symbol 
of pair of bullocks. According to him , he had seen faked ballot papers such as 
Ex . P -4 and P - 6 being distributed only on 12th and 19th of February 1967 and 
on no other day . 

The witness speaks of distributed of Ex , P - 4 by Khubchand Khera on the 16th 
after the close of the meeting and also on 12th and 19th in Itwaria where he had 
heen after closing his shop . The witness was a polling agent of Shri Kamath . 
Hls testimony is interested . It is highly unlikely that propaganda as to distri 
bution had gone on 19th by which date it was to stop . The faked ballot papers , 
25 or 30 in number, which he alleged to have secured from the Congress office 
and given to Shri Kamath were not produced . Moreover , they were not secured 
from those to whom they had been distributed . 

P . W . 25 Gurucharan Gupta is another worker of P . S . P . at Narsinghpur. He 
is an Income-tax practitioner . According to him , Harishankar Sthapak while 
distributing Nakali Matpatra such as Ex P .4 had been explaining to the voters 
that against the name of the respondent, there was the symbol of pair of bullocks 
but as against that of Shri Kamath , there was none. According to him , 
voters had actully asked Harishankar as to why his symbol was not shown against 
his name. Thereupon , Harishankar said to him that he should mind his own 
business . The witness protested for what Sthapak was doing. This put 
Harlshankar ( 12 temper . He spoke in loud tone collecting 100 or 150 persons 
around them including Nemichand , Swadeshchand and Tarachand . The witness 
also spoke about distribution of Ex . P -4 on the 16th after the close of the meeting 
by Khubchand and Harishankar . According to him , each party was asking the 
voters to put the seal against its symbol. 

P . W . 27 Brijmohandas is a Joint Secretary of Praja Socialist Party . He says 
he had seen Konalchand Akhepuria distributing faked ballot papers such as Ex . 
P - 4 in Mangalwarta bazar of the town of Piparia . But he does not say when . 

P . W . 20 Jagannathprasad stated that after the meeting was over on 16th at 
Narsinghpur, Khubchand , Harprasad and Narayanprasad distributed faked ballot 
papers such as Ex . P 4 . At the time of such distribution , they had been saying 
that Taparia ( cottage ) of Shri Kamath had ceased to exist and that only the 
palr of bullocks and survived . The witness , in his cross - examination , admitted 
that Shri Mishra , in his speech , had pointed out thc respondent as a Congress 
candidate and contestant of Shri Kamath . If this was so publicly stated by Shri 
D . P . Mishra , it is hardly likely that Khubchand Khera and others would say 
that Shri Kamath s symbol had ceased to exist. 

Evidence of P . W . 30 Harprasad Barela is already considered above and re 
jccted . 


P . W . 31 Takhatsingh says that when he had gone to Gadarwara about 15 or 
20 days prior to the date of polling , he was asked by Shri Sthapak to work for 
the Congress , Tlie witness had worked for P . S . P . for several years past including 
the elections of 1957 and 1982 . He told Sthapak that he would consult his col 
leagues. He was then asked by Harishankar Sthapak to carry certain posters to 
his village as also some faked ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 and P -6 . He took 
them and went away to sell his goods. The witness was a ferry contractor whose 
contract had been cancelled . He had deposited Rs. 10 , 000 / - only a few days 


2070 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


before he was examined to secure the renewal of his contract. Sub Divisional 
Officer P . W . D . had given him to understand that his ferry contract would be 
renewed . 

The evidence of this witness is unnatural. He has worked throughout on 
behalf of P . S . P . except perhaps in the present election when , according to him , 
he worked for Kishorilal Paliwal who stood as a Swatantra candidato . It is 
highly unlikely that Harishankar Sthapak , a Congress worker, would ask such 
a man man to work for the Congress and would entrust him with publicity ma 
terial even before he had aşsented to work for the Congress Party . It is equally 
unlikely that such a person as the witness would agree to carry publicity material 
for the Congress even before he had consulted his colleagues and given his assent 
to work for the new Party . On the whole , the witness evidence is hardly worth 
anything 

As against this evidence , the respondent, in his evidence , has denied that he 
had given his consent to distribute faked ballot papers such as Ex . P -4 . Accord 
ing to him , he had seen ballot papers such as Ex , P - 4 on or about 26th January 
1967 at Gadarwada . Before that he had been to district Congress office at Itarsi 
where he had been shown dummy ballot papers such as Ex. D - 1. He then asked 
Hariprasad to send some of such ballot papers to Narsinghpur area . At Gadar 
wada, he was shown ballot papers like Ex. P - 4 by Harishankar as being meant 
for propaganda purposes. He then , according to him , asked Harishankar as to 
why such ballot papers had been printed . Harishankar told him that they had 
been printed in consultation with and under te advice of Distric Congress Com 
mittee . Their thinking , according to him , was that if both the symbols were 
printed , such dummy ballot papers would be used by other parties as well in 
volving unnecessary expense . He then told Harishankar that they should not 
be so narrow minded and that even at the risk of they being used by the opposing 
parties, he would secure printing of ballot papers such as Ex , D - 1 and have them 
sent. He then got dummy ballot papers such Ex. D - 1 from Sunil Prests at Narsingh 
pur . He denied that he had asked Harishankar Sthapak , Khubchand Khera , 
Munshi Harprasad , Narayanprasad Gupta , Komalsingh Akhępurla or any other 
worker to distribute such faked ballot papers . He had also not asked them to 
make a propaganda , that Shri Kamath was no longer standing as a candidate for 
parliament. According to him , during the entire election period , he had always 
told the voters that there were only two candidates viz , himself and Shri Kamath 
for the parliamentary constituency of Narsinghpur- Hoshangabad . He denied to 
have known Dewabai or to have told anything of the sort deposed to by her about 
Shri Kamath 

Munshi Harprasad ( R . W . 2 ) examined by him stated that he had worked as 
a clerk to Choudhary Doulatsingh . He had worked during the election for the 
respondent but denied that after D . P . Mishra s meeting at Narsinghpur, he had 
distributed faked ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 . According to him , he was not 
at Narsinghpur on that day. According to him , he had shown ballot papers to 
the voters like, Ex . D - 1 to educate them how to vote. 


R . W . 3 Narayanprasad Gupta also stated that he had used ballot papers such 
as Ex . D - 1 and not like Ex . P - 4 . He denied that he or Khubchand Khera had 
distributed faked ballot papers such as Ex . P -4 . R . W . 4 Babulal Jain , who was 
a Congress candidate from Bohani, stated that he had no occasion to use ballot 
papers such as Ex . P - 4 during the election period . R . W . 11 Komalsingh Akhe 
puria also denied that he had distributed ballot papers such as Ex . P -4 . Accord 
ing to him , he had used ballot papers such as Ex . D - 1 . They were received by 
him from Itarsi. He denied that he had distributed ballot papers such as Ex . 
P - 4 after the public meeting addressed by D . P . Mishra R . W . 13 Harishankar 
Sthapak supported the respondent about the ballot papers Ex . P - 4 and Ex . D - 1 . 
He denied distribution of ballot apers such as Ex . P -4 . He denied the incident 
narrated by Gurucharan . 

Having regard to this evidence , it seems that ballot papers of the sort Ex . P -4 
and Ex . D - 1 were got printed . Both of them must have been distributed . But 
the story about the distribution of ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 at the close of 
the public meetings addressed by Shri D . P . Mishra either at Narsinghpur or 
Piparia and about any of the workers of the Congress Party or the respondent 
having told the voters that Shri Kamath was no longer standing and that he need 
sot ne considered since he had withdrawn or that his hut ( symbol) had blown up , 
does not appear to be true It is uniikely that with persistent propaganda with 


Sec. 8 ( ii )] 


THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2071 


the aid of loud - speakers on behalf of Shri Kamath at least upto 18th February 
1967, any such statement would either be made or believed . In fact, it is ad 
mitted by P . W . 29 Jagannathprasad nai Shri D . P . Mishra , in his speech , had 
pciniai out Choudhary Nitirajsingh as the contestant of Shri Kamath . I am , 
therefore , not inclined to believe the alleged distribution at the close of the 
meetings or earlier by any of the persons alleged such as Harishankar Sthapak , 
Komalsingh Akhepuria , Narayanprasad , Khubchand Khera and others . It does 
appear that in January 1967, sometime near about 24th and 26th of January 1967 , 
some ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 were distributed . But their distribution also 
cannot be said to have taken place with the consent of the respondent. There 
does not appear to be any evidence to such consent. Nor is there any evidence 
of his consent to the alleged propaganda that Shri Kamath had withdrawn , that 
he was no longer there or that his hut had blown up . All these expressions 
appear to be the product of imagination . 


Examining the contents of Ex - P -4 , it is, no doubt, true that as against the 
name of Shri Kamath the symbol of hut is not shown. But that could not , by 
itself, be construed to mean that Shri Kamath had withdrawn, or that he was 
not in the contest . Although quch faked ballot papers were strictly not in accord 
ance with the instructions of the Election Commissioner yet , they cannot be said 
to ll. vull false suggestion or suppression of truth . 


For these reasons, issue No . 8 Is also found against the petitioner . 


Issue No. 9 , - This issue relates to the petitioner s averment that Shri M . S . 
Choudhary , who was the Chief Election Officer in Madhya Pradesh and the 
brother of the respondent had appealed to the voters of their caste who had 
assembled at the 13th day death - ceremony of their father Choudhary Daulat 
singh to vote for the respondent on the ground that he belonged to their caste . 


This averment is denied by the respondent. Both he and Shri M . S . Choudhary , 
in their statements on oath , stoutly denied the allegation and said that such a 
thing was un - thinkable at the time of 13th day death - ceremony of their father. 


Only person examined on behalf of the petitioner on this point is one Mataroolal 
( P . W . 24 ) . According to this witness, he knew the respondent for the last 20 
years . He used to purchase grain on being asked to do so from time to time 
by the father of the respondent. This was done for about 10 or 15 years . On this 
account, he claimed intimacy with the family of the respondent. He claimed to 
have attended the 13th day ceremony following the death of Choudhary Doulat 
singh . This ceremony, according to him , was attended by the people of their caste 
as also by certain Government officials . All these persons were sitting in a room , 
in a corner of which he also sat. On that occasion , Choudhary Marutrajsingh , 
brother of the respondent, got up and said to the assembly that Bada Bhaiyya (1. e . 
the respondent) was standing as a candidate for the parliamentary seat and that 
all of them should make him successful (probably by voting and working for him ) . 
Marutrajsingh , according to him , further said that he would see as to the rest (Age 
Mai Dekh Lunga ) . The witness understood by this phrase to mean that if there 
was any deficiency or defect in the matter of his election , he would see that the 
same was removed . After his speech , according to him , the respondent stood up 
before the gathering and said that he was standing for the election . He seemg 
to be a witness on other topic also . According to him , Choudhary Nitirajsingh 
called him and gave faked ballot papers such as Ex , P . for distribution and told 
him , that " Zopadi Gol hal" . As per his directions , according to the witness he 
distributed the ballot papers. He later admitted that ballot papers such as Ex . D - 1 
had been distributed before. 


In his cross - examination , the witness admitted that printed Invitation cards had 
been sent to the persons who were invited for the 13th day ceremony but he had 
gone there without any such card being sent to him . He had no knowledge , accord 
ing to him , as to whether Choudhary Nitirjsingh s family were possessed of land . 
This question was obviously put to suggest that there would be no occasion for 
Choudhary Doulatsingh to engage the services of the witness for purchasing grain . 
The witness admitted that he had no shop of his own dealing in grain . All that 
he did was to go out in the Bazar and purchase gram for them . He did not receive 
any remuneration for doing that kind of work . 


2072 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 11, 1890 


[PART II - 


The story told by the witness that on the 13th day cereinony elther Shri M . S . 
Choudhary who is a responsible I. A . S . Officer oť standing and Chief Election OH 
cer , would use such solemn occasion for addressing castemen to vote for his brother 
and tell them openly that he would see that any defect in the matter of his election . 
would be removed by him . It is difficult to see how he, as Chief Election Oncer ; 
was in a position to remove any defect in the matter of his brother s election , 
when the rules of election do not leave any scope tor such purpose. None of the 
castemen or Government officials who were present were examined to prove this . 
It is not easy to believe that the witness would dare to attend the ceremony un 
invited . It is further un -believable that he would come and depose against the 
respondent if he was so intimate with the family as to go there un - invited . His 
claim that he used to do the work of purchasing grain for his father without any . 
expectation of return is not easily believable . The witness appears of no substance 
and his statement cannot be preferred to denlal on oath of Shri M . S . Choudhary 
and the respondent. Issue No. 9 is , therefore , found against the petitioner , 

Issue No, 10 . --- This issue relates to the averment that Choudhary Diwansingør. 
Ş . 0 . Sohagpur, who was a cousin of the respondent, had called Baliram Patel 
and Rewatsingh and asked them to vote for the respondent and also to induce 
others to do so . To establish this , the petitioner has examined P . W . 3 Baliran 
Patel, P . W . 4 Rewatsingh and P . W . 9 Gulabchand . According to Baliram Patel , 
he had gone to Sohagpur in January , 1967 in connection with his case before 
the sub - Divisional Officer. He was called by Shri Diwansingh while he was 
going by the side of the Police - station and was asked as to how matters stood 
regarding election at his place Dikwada. The witness told him that propaganda 
on behalf of the Congress was going on . It was then that Diwansingh told 
him that Nitirasingh and Tulsiram were his candidates and that he should see: 
that they were supported , 


In his cross -examination , he stated that he had not spoken about that incident 
to anybody . If that was the case how could the petitioner know about the alleged 
talk with the witness of Diwansingh . The evidence such as this , has hardly any 
ring oť truth . The witness does not indicate as to how Diwansingh would think 
of selecting him for such a purpose . Moreover , nothing deposed to by the witness 
shows that the respondent had obtained the assistance of his cousin Diwansingh 
for the purpose of the election . The witness did not know Nitirajsingh at all . 


P . W . Rewatsingh s evidence is similar. The witness speaks of four occasions, 
twice in January and twice in February when Diwansingh called hina while he 
was passing by the side of Thana and asked him to vote for the respondent. The 
witness is a client of Shri Ramchandra Maheshwari, Advocate who is a rnernber 
of P . S . P . Evidence of this witness also is not reliable. It is unlikely that to a 
casual passer -by Shri Diwansingh would call and ask to vote for his brother parti 
çularly when there was no intimacy between them . Diwansingh has denied on 
oath what these witnesses have said . I would consider the evidence of these wit 
nesses as un -safe to act upon 


As regards the evidence of P . W . 9 Gulabchand , it is beside the issue. The story 
told by him is that he had gone to the dispensary of Dr. Sapre which is situated 
near the residence of the Station -House -Officer , Sohagpur at about 7 - 30 or 8 p . m . 
He then saw a car of light blue colour belonging to Choudhary Nitirajsingh stand 
Ing in front of the residence of Diwansingh Choudhary , S . O ., Sohagpur . He further 
said that the respondent and his cousin Diwansingh standing by the compound of 
the latter s residence and talking to each other . He heard Choudhary Nitirajsingh 
talking Diwansingh that he was standing for the election and that they had to do 
the work carefully . Both Nitirajsingh and Diwangingh have denied this story on 
oath . According to the respondent. he had been to Diwansingh s residence at 
Sohagpur only once during the election and that was for about half an hour in 
the after-noon . He had never been there in the evening or at night. He also 
denia that he had any light blue car during the election . According to him , he 
used to move in jeep . Taking the talk attributed to the respondent and Diwan 
singh all that can be said is that the respondent had given information that he 
was standing . The alleged statement, " we have to do the work carefully " cannot 
be construed to mean that he had attempted to obtain his assistance . Moreover . I 
am not prepared to believe that the respondent and Diwansingh had a talk at the 
compound of Station -House Ofcer s bungalow at 7 - 30 or 8 pm . and that the 
witness who had casually gone to Dr. Sapre s dispensary could overhear their talk . 
It seems they under -took to have a talk somewhat loudlv , not inside the house 
but at the compound , to afford an opportunity to the witness , who is a member 


SEC . 8 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2073 


of P . S . P ., to overhear. This is an absurd suggestion . I would , therefore , reject al 
together the statement of this witness . Thus, this issue No . 10 is found against the 
petitioner. 

We may consider here issue No . 13 which is also on an allied topic namely , 
assistance secured by the respondent for his election from a public officer . 

It is said that Balmakund Gupta , Naib - Tahsildar, Jabalpur took leave specially 
to help Nitirajsingh and his running mate Babulal Jain in the matter of his elec 
tion . He remained at his village Paloha where he had put up a Congress flag on 
his residence . This flag was later removed on objection by members of opposing 
parties . 

Balmakund Gupta , who was examined on behalf of the respondent, has explain 
ed that he had come to his village after securing leave in the month of October 
1906 on account of the death of his father . He continued to remain on leave on 
securing extension of his leave period from time to time till 28th February 1967, 
when he re - joined duty on learning from the Commissioner s office that further 
extension was not possible . He remained at his family residence at Paloha as he 
had to look after about 100 acres of land left by his father . He denied that he 
had put up a Congress flag at his residence or that he had worked as a junior of 
Babulal Jain as was stated by certain witnesses of the petitioner. He denied that 
the pamphlet , Ex , P - 56 which contains the name of Balmukund Gupta referred to 
him . Babulal Jain who too was examined denied that Balmakund Gupta was his 
Junior . There is hardly any evidence worth the name produced by the petitioner 
to prove that Balmukund Gupta had put up a Congress flag at his residence and . 
that the same was removed on objection by the workers of opposing candidates. 
As regards the carrying on of the propaganda by Balmukund Gupte , on behalf of 
the Congress and the respondent at the instance of the respondent, the petitioner 
had not set out any details as to time and place of such corrupt practice . 

On behalf of the petitioner, witnesses examined were P . W . 31 Takbatsingh and 
P . W . 32 Ganeshprasad both of Bhatera and P . W . 33 Radhelal of Paloha. 

Takhatsingh spoke of faked ballot papers having been given to him such as 
Ex . P -4 by Harishankar Sthapak . As regards Balmukund Gupta , he stated that 
he had been to Bhatera 5 or 6 days before the date of polling and expressed desire 
to meet the villagers. 4 or 5 persons of the village were then called to whom he 
told to vote for the Congress . Ganeshprasad , on the other hand , stated that Bal 
mukund Gupta gave faked ballot papers such as Ex . P - 4 to Takhatsingh and asked 
him to explain to the voters to put seal as against the pair of bullocks. 

As regards Radhelal, he wanted to refer to an incident with reference to Bal 
mukund Gupta which had taken place at the residence of the later. As facts were 
not pleaded with reference to that incident, he was not allowed to be questioned 
on that topic . The evidence of Takhatsingh and Ganeshprasad is conflicting and 
neither deserves to be given any credit. Taking it for its face value, it does not 
establish the fact that Balmukund Gupta s assistance was obtained by the respon 
dent or that Balmukund Gupta was his agent and with his consent and had com 
mitted any corrupt practice with his express or implied consent Issue No. 13 1g 
therefore , found against the petitioner. 

As regards issue No. 11 regarding construction of rostrum and making arrange - ! 
ment for the meetings addressed by Shrimati Gandhi, the then Prime Minister by 
the public officers mentioned in those Issues , I would say that so far as the Prime 
Minister s visit is concerned , security measures including construction of costrum 
according to specification and making arrangements for the meeting had to be 
looked after hy the State Government and the olcers of that Government under 
instructions from the Government of India , Home Department whether such visit 
be on official or non - official purpose . This is clear from the statement of Shri 
K . C . C . Raja ( R . W . A ), I would , therefore, hold that this will not involve any 
corrupt practice . 

As regards issue No . 12 regarding construction of rostrum and making of 
arrangements for the meeting addressed by the then Chief Minister, Madhya 
Pradesh Shri D . P . Mishra on 16th Tebruary 1967 at Narsinghpur by the Sub 
Divisional Oficer and Tahsildar , Narsinghpur. there is hardly sufficient evidence on 
that point worth taking serious notice of Mr. Dharmadhikari who appeared for 
the petitioner , had plainly stated that he does not intend to argue Issue No . 11 
and 12 as according to him , evidence on them is not sufficient. 


2074 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


(PART II 


I would , therefore , And these issues against the petitioner. 

In view of the above findings, no finding need be given on issue No. 14 . Issues 
No. 15 and 16 are already decided having been treated as preliminary . 

As the petitioner has failed to establish the corrupt practices alleged by him , 
the petition is dismissed with costs . 

Counsel s fees shall be taxed at Rs. 500 / -. 
Dated the 13th of March 1968 . 

( Sd .) V . R . NEWASKAR , 

Judge , 
[No. 82/MP / 45 / 67. ] 


New Delhi, the 11th April 1968 


S . O . 1530 .- In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
-Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Judgment and Order pro 
nounced on the 29th January , 1988 by the High Court for the States of Punjab 
and Haryana at Chandigarh in Election Petition No. 8 of 1967 and in the recrimina 
tion petition Alled in connection therewith . 


FIT FOR INDEXING 
IN THE HIGH COURT FOR THE STATES OF PUNJAB AND HARYANA AT 

CHANDIGARH . 
ELECTION PETITION SIDE 

ELECTION PETITION NO . 8 / 1967 
. Rameshwara Nand son of Shri Krishna Nand , resident of Gurukul Gharaunda , 

Tehsil and District Karnal, Petitioner , 


Versus 
1 , Shri Madho Ram son of Shri Budh Ram , resident of G . T . Road, Panipat, District 

Karnal, 


2 . Shri Kulwant Singh , District Magistrate , Karnal, Returning Officers , 2 -Karnal 

Parliamentary Constituency , Karnal, - Respondents 


Election Petition under Sections 81, 100 and 101 of the Representation of 
the People Act Praying that the election of respondent No. 1 as Member of the 
Lok Sabha from 2 -Karnal Parliamentary Constituency be declared vold , and further 
praying that the petitioner be declared duly elected as Member of the Lok Sabha 
from 2 -Karnal Parliamentary constituency . 

Dated the 29th January , 1968 . 
PRESENT: 
The Hon ble Mr. Justice Grover, 
For the Petitioner : Mr. D . S . Nehra , Advocate , with Mr. K . S . Nehra , Advocate . 
For the Respondents; Mr. C . L . Lakhanpal, Advocate with Mr. Prem Partap and 
I. S . Vimal, Advocates . 

JUDGEMENT 


This judgement shall dispose of Election petition No. 8 of 1967 as also the 
· recrimination petition Aled by the returned candidate and certain miscellaneous 
petitions which have not so far been disposed of. 

Swami Rameshwara Nand (hereinafter called the petitioner ) who was sponsored 
by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh and Madho Ram (hereinafter called the respondent ) 
· who had been set up by the Indian National Congress, contested the election to the 
· Lok Sabha from 2 -Karnal Parliamentary Constituency held in the early part of 


Sec . $(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2075; 


the year 1967. The respondent won by a margin of 203 voters. The Parlia 
mentary Constituency , in question , comprised of 9 segments of Assembly Consti 
tuency named below : 

( 1 ) Babin . 
( 2 ) Nilokheri. 
( 3 ) Indri. 
(4 ) Karnal. 
(5 ) Jundla 
( 6 ) Gharaunda . 
( 7 ) Samalkha. 
( 8 ) Panipat. 
( 9 ) Naultha. 


The procedure which was to be followed was that the counting was to be done 
in these segment by the Assistant Returning Officers at the places mentioned in 
para 6 of the petition . Tho result was to be finally sent to the Returning Officer 
who was the Deputy Commissioner . The Returning Officer was to consolidate 
the counting of these segments and also count the postal ballot papers . The total 
number of votes secured by the petitioner was 1,68, 001 and that secured by the 
respondent 1 .68 ,204 . The number of rejected votes was shown to be 13 , 876 . The 
number of tendered votes was found to be 190 . 


The grounds on which the election of the respondent has been challenged as 
void and a declaration that the petitioner has been duly elected has been claimed 
are get out in paragraph 12 and the material facts have been stated in paragraph 
13 of the petition . A reference will be made to them to the extent it is neces 
sary for the decision of the issues which have been debated and pressed. 
On the pleadings of the parties , the following issues were framed . 
1 . Whether the counting was not done according to the schedule contained 

in the notice dated 11th February , 1967, given by the Returning 

Oficer ? 
2 . Whether there was a sudden change in the programme of counting and 

the petitioner could not appoint and post counting agents to supervise 

the counting and what is the effect ? 
3 . Whether 550 or more votes were improperly counted in favour of the 

respondent as alleged in paragraph 13 ( e ) of the Election Petition and 
whether this has materially affected the result of the election in so 

far as it concerned the returned candidate ? 
4 . Whether 1900 or more votes cast in favour of the petitioner were impro 

perly rejected as mentioned in paragraph 13 ( c ) of the petition ? If 
so, did it materially affect the result of election in so far it concerns 

the returned candidate ? 
5 . Whether any votes cast in favour of the petitioner were placed inside 

the bundles earmarked for the respondent ? If so , its effect on the 

result of the election in so far as the returned candidate is concerned ? " 
6 . Whether the Assistant Returning Officer and the Returning Officer adopted 

a partisan attitude towards the petitioner and in favour of the res 

pondent? If so , to what effect ? 
7 . Whether the postal ballot papers alleged to have been cast by public 

servants on election duty were received in a lump by Shri Bhagwat 
Swaroop , Superintendent of Police , Karnal, and handed over to the 

Returning Omcer ? 
8 . Whether the ballot papers mentioned in Issue No. 7 were got marked in 

favour of the respondent at the Instance of Shri Bhagwat Swaroop ? 

If so , to what effect ? 
9 . Whether the said postal ballot papers were invalid because of non 

compliance with the rules in the matter of issuance and recelpts 

thereof, as alleged in paragraph 13 ( f) of the petition ? 
10 . Whether a preponderant majority of the tendered voters cast at the 

election deserved to be counted in favour of the petitioner and whether 


- 2076 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; 11.4Y 1 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[ PART II 


the votes cast earlier in the names of those electors deserved to be 

excluded from counting and if so , to what effect ?. 
11. Whether the application for recounting submitted by the petitioner to 

the Returning Officer was not an invalled application ? If so , what 

Is the effect ? 
12 . If issue No. 11 is found against the respondent, whether the Returning 

Officer was wrong in disallowing the recount in six out of nine 

Assembly Constituency segments ? It so , its effect? 
13 . Whether the Returning Officer was wrong in not recounting votes of all 

the polling stations in the three Assembly Constituency segments as 

ordered by him ? If so , to what effect ? 
14 . Whether the petitioner is entitled to recount and scrutiny of votes ? If 

so , to what effect ? 
15 . Whether the votes of persons as alleged in paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 of 

the petition were cast by false personation and whether it has materia 
lly allected the result of the election in so far as the returned candi 

date is concerned ? 
16 . Whether Shri Bhartu Ram and Master Kishan Lal committed the m9? 

practices as alleged in paragraphs 34 and 35 of the petition ? It so , 

its effect ? 
17 . Whether the mal -practices alleged in paragraphs 36 , 37 and 38 were com 

mitted ? If so , to what effect ? 
18. Whether the list of polling stations was not supplied to the petitioner 

and consequently he could not make arrangement for polling agents 
at all polling stations and whether it was necessary to so supply the 

list ? If so , its effect ? 
19 . Whether the employees of the Medical Store Depot Karnal were illegally 

deprived of postal ballot papers as alleged in paragraph 40 of the 

petition ? If so , its effect? 
. 20 . Whether Shri Bhagawt Swaroop . Superintendent of Police , Karnal, com 

mitted the corrupt practices with the consent of the respondent of 
undue influence wih regard to the postal ballot papers of public ser 

vants as alleged in paragraph 41 of the petition ? If so , its effect ? 
21. Whether Shri Jaswant Ral of Panipat committeed the corrupt practice 

of conveyance of voters in truck No. PNK 2039 with the consent of 
the respondent as alleged in paragraph 42 of the Petition ? If so , to 

what effect ? 
22 . Whether Shri Lal Chand Malik committed the corrupt practice of con 

veyance of voters in truck No. PNK 6038 with the consent of the res 

pondent As alleged in paragraph 43 ? If so , to what effect ? 
23. Whether the respondent and Shri Kundan La ) Lamba made the speeches 

as alleged in paragraph 44 ( i) ? If so , its effect ? 
24 . Whether the respondent and Shri Sugan Chand Azad made the speeches 

as alleged in paragraph 44 ( li ) ? If so , its effect ? 
25. Whether the persons mentioned in Annexure T to the petition are in the 

employment of the Government and were appointed as polling agents 
of the respondent? If so , to what effect ? Further whether these 
polling agents exercised undue influence and whether that amounted 

to a corrupt practice ? If so , to what effect ? 
26 . Whether the petitioner has received majority of valld votes and is entiti 

ed to be declared elected ? 
27. Whether the petitioner would not have recelved majority of the valid 

votes it the respondent had not obtained votes by corrupt practices as 
alleged in the petition ? 


Although Mr. D . S . Nehra , counsel for the petitioner, addressed arguments on 
"Issues 1 and 2 separately , in my opinion , they can be decided and disposed of to 
gether with other issues on which a consolidated argument has been addressed . 
These are Issues 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 11 , 12 , 13 and 14 . 


In para 6 of the petition , it is alleged that the poll was taken on 19th February . 
1967. According to the schedule given in the notice dated 11th February , 1967, by 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 11, 1890 


2077 


the Returning Officer, the counting of the ballot papers was to be taken up on the 
various dates mentioned in the notice . The counting , however , was not done in 
accordance with the aforesaid schedule and the deviation which were made have 
been set out in para 7 of the petition . As regards the grounds relevant for the 
purpose of the decision of the aforesaid issues, reference need be made to sub 
paras ( 1) and (ii ) of para 12 of the petition . It has been alleged that the result of 
the election in so far as it concerns the returned candidate has been materially 
affected by improper reception , refusal and rejection of votes and by receipt in 
of void votes in favour of respondent No. 1, and by non -compliance with the provi 
sions of the Constitution and of the Representation of the People Act and the Rules 
end orders made thereunder . The material facts are set out in para 13 . It has 
been alleged inter alia that the Congress party in general and Shri Bhagwat Dayal 
Sharma, who was then the Chief Minister of the State of Haryana , in particular 
planned to rig the election so far as the petitioner was concerned . For that pur 
pose it was so arranged that at the time of election guch officers should be assigned 
clection duties who would be amenable to their influence . Clauses ( i ) , ( vi) of 
sub -para (b ) and sub -paras ( c ), ( d ) and ( e ) may be reproduced in extenso as n 
good deal of argument has turned on the question whether all the necessary and 
material facts have been stated in the petition in the matter of a total inspection 
and recount being asked 

( b ) The counitng stall, the including the Returning Ofcer , the Assistant Return 
îng Omcer , and others working under them , in pursuance of the partisan attitude, 
resorted to various devices to favour respondent No. 1; e. g . 

( 1) Ballot papers which constituted valid votes in favour of the petitioner were 
intentionally placed inside the bundles (of 50 votes each ) of the respondent No . 1 . 
This was done secretively at various tables . Nevertheless some cases were detect 
ed on the spot. 

( vi) At polling station No. 10 , three votes and at polling station No. 11 tliree 
more votes cast in petitioner s favour were found placed inside the bundles ear 
marked for respondent No. 1. That fact was brought to the notice of the Return 
Ing Oficer respondent No . 2 . Shri Fateh Chand ViJ, M . L . A . who was the counting 
Agent of the pctitioner detected 2 instances of six and nine votes each having 
been placed in the bundles of respondent No, 1 . He also complained about this 
to the Returning Officer . 

(c ) That the Assistant Returning Oncers persisted in rejecting arbitrarily 
votes which were valid in all respects and had been cast in favour of the peti 
tioner . Again and again , the petitioner and his counting agents protested against 
their high -handedness but no heed was paid . Out of 13876 rejected votes at 
least 1900 valid votes cast in petitioner s favour have been arbitrarily rejected . 
Had they not been improperly rejected . the petitioner would have clearly obtained 
a majority of yotes and would have been declared elected . 


( d ) That the Assistant Returning Omcers applied discriminatory standards in 
accepting and rejecting votes and thereby favoured respondent No . 1 as against 
the petitioner. Votes cast in favour of the petitioner were rejected on the basis 
of supposed defects whereas identical defects were condoned in the case of votes 
of Respondent No. 1 . 

( e ) That there was a large number of void votes which ought to have been 
rejected as invalid . At the time of the counting the petitioner and his counting 
agents pointed out to the Returning Omcer that all such Invalid votes should be 
Tejected . But all these void and invalid votes were included in favour of respon 
dent No. 1 . The number of such void and invalid votes , so pointed out was more 
than 550. It is possible that some more such votes may have escaped the pointing 
out at that time. 


It is unnecessary to reproduce sub -para ( ſ ) of para 13 as also paras 14 and 15 
of the petition as the matter contained therein has previously been dealt with in 
* the order of the Full Bench dated 16th October , 1967. 


In the written statement Aled by the respondent, it has been admitted that 
some alterations in the schedule relating to counting were made on account of the 
exigencies of the situation but it has been averred that the petitioner was always 
kept informed of the changes and that his counting agents were present at all the 
counting stations before the counting actually commenced . The allegations con 
tained in para 12 of the petition have been denied in addition to their having 


2078 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968/ VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


[PART II 


been described as vague , indefinite and lacking in material particulars. As re 
gards para 13 , the allegations made in the petition have been denied . It has been . 
asserted that neither the counting stall nor the Returning Officer nor the Assistant . 
Returning Officers or any other Officer working under them acted in a partisan 
inanner and in favour of the respondent. As regards the Babin segment, it has 
been denied that the petitioner withdrew from the counting at any stage. It has 
been alleged that he and his counting agents continued to participate in the count 
ing till the very end and it was only when it was found that the petitioner had 
lost heavily by nearly 5 , 500 votes that his suporters tried to create confusion and 
lodged protests. According to the respondent a large number of counting officials 
were sympathetic towards the Jan Sangh and were opposed to the Congress party . 
- They were, therefore, trying to help the petitioner and not the respondent. 

The evidence relating to the departure made from in schedule contained in the 
potice dated 11th February , 1967, as regards the time and date of the counting 
may first be discussed . PW , 5 Banwari Ram , a Sarpanch of village Kudlain and 
Chairman of the Republican Party , Haryana , who had contested the elections from 
the Jundla Assembly Constituency in February , 1967, stated that as regards the 
counting in Karnal, it had been originally notified that it would take place on 
22nd February , 1967. The date was changed without any further information or 
notification to 23rd February, 1967. He was, however, present throughout the 
period of counting. The petitioner as P . W . 37 stated that a notice had been re 
ceived by him on 11th February , 1967, from the Returing Officers , Karnal, that 
the counting would take place in respect of the Parliamentary seat on 21st Febru 
ary , 1967, with regard to the Karnal Gharaunda , Nilokheri, Samalkha, Panipat 
and Indri segments and of the remaining three segments on 22nd February , 1967. 
But as a matter of fact , the counting was held on different dates. On 21st Febru . 
ary , 1967, the counting took place of the Samalkha , Karnal and Nilokheri seg 
ments. Some counting in respect of Panipat segment was also done. On 22nd 
February , 1967 , the remaining ballot papers were counted from Panipat segment 
and the counting took place in respect of the Gharaunda , Nilokheri and Babin 
segments . On 22nd February , 1967, some counting had been done relating to 
Naultha segment. On 23rd February, 1967, counting of Jundla segment and the 
remaining counting of Naultha segment was done. According to the petitioner 
he was only informed about the change in the date of thhe counting relating to 
the Gharaunda segment but he was not informed about the others . RW . 16 Om 
Parkash Gupta , Election Nalb Tehsildar , deposed after looking at the programme 
of the counting arrangement by the Returning Officer that the counting for Samal 
kha , Panipat, Karnal, Gharaunda , Nilokheri and Indri segments was to be done 
on 21st February , 1967, and that of Babin , Naultha and Jundla segments on 22nd 
February , 1967. On 21st February , 1967, the counting in respect of Şamalkha , 
Karnal and Nilokheri segments only was completed . The counting of Gharaunda , 
Indri and Babin segments started on 22nd February , 1967, and was completed the 
same day . As regards Panipat , it started on 21st February at 8 .30 and was com 
pleted on 22nd February . The counting relating to Jundla started on the 23rd 
February and was completed on that day . The counting in respect of Naultha . 
started on 22nd February at 2 . 00 P . M and was completed on the 23rd February , 
1967. 

The Nalb Tehsildar, Om Parkash Gupta , RW . 16 in cross - examination made 
it clear that the notices with regard to the change of date and time of counting 
were duly issued to both the candidates . As regards Panipat segment, notices 
were issued but the signature of the petitioner was not to be 
found . But so far as the Jundla segment was concerned , the signature of the 
petitioner was to be found on the notices which were issued . In view of what has 
been stated above and the discussion which will follow , I am not satisfied that the 
petitioner did not have any notice of the change of time and date of counting. At 
any rate , it is common ground that his grįvence mainly is in respect of Panipat 
Segment about which the Naib Tehsildar s evidence is that notice was issued to 
him . It is not the case of the petitioner hat his counting agents were not present 
when the counting of the Panipat segment took place . I do not find any force 
in the aforesaid objection of the petitioner. 


As regards the other alleged Illegalities and Irregularities , PW . 2 Fateh Cahnd , 
who was elected to the Legislative Assembly in the last general elections and 
who was a sitting M . L . A , having been elected in 1962 also , stated that he was 
present when counting of the Panipat Assembly Constituency as also of the Pani 
pat segment of the Parliamentary Constituency took place on 22nd February , 1967. 
Sumer Chand , who was his counting agent, Pardhan Ram Singh , the election agent: 


Sin S (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1 , 1968 / VAISAKH1 lt, 1890 


2070 


of the petitioner and Shri Dharam Singh Advocate were present. The Sub -Divi 
sional Oncer who was the Assistant Returning Omcer , was showing a distinct 
leaning in favour of the respondent and when the marks on the ballot papers 
were similar, he would accept them in the case of the respondent whereas he 
would reject them in the case of the petitioner . To give an instance , if a 
ballot paper in which a vote had been cast, in favour of the respondent, 
contained some sort of smudge or stain , it was accepted but it was 
rejected in case of the petitioner . Similarly the mark by the prescribed instru 
ment touching or slightly crossing the line was not regarded as suficient to in 
validate the ballot papers of the respondent whereas the ballot papers cast in 
favour of the petitioner were invalidated on that ground . Furthermore , in the 
case of the respondent even if there was a smudge or some sort of stain against 
the name of the respondent, that ballot paper was accepted whereas the ballot 
papers containing votes in favour of the petitioner were rejected for that reason . 
If a ballot paper contained the mark of the prescribed instrument only partially , 
it was accepted in the case of the respondent but rejected so far as the ballot 
papers relating to the petitioner were concerned . The election agent of the peti 
tioner often demanded that he be allowed to note down the number of those ballot 
papers which were being illegally rejected or accepted but since those numbers 
were at the back of the ballot papers , they were not allowed to be noted down. 
Ile could not give the numerical number of the ballot papers which were so reject 
ed or accepted because the number was large. He was present when the peti 
tioner Aled an application praying for recount before the Returning Omcer . The 
recount was allowed and he was present when it started . He found at his table 
that in one bundle about six ballot papers in which votes had been cast in favour 
of the petitioner had been tied up in the bundle of the ballot papers relating to 
the respondent. Similarly in another bundle nine such ballot papers had been 
tied up . He learnt from the neighbouring table that three to four ballot papers 
had been similarly illegally tied up in several bundles relating to the respondent. 
The recount continued upto 11 .00 p .m , and it covered about 22 polling stations, 
At about 11 .00 p . m . the peon of the Deputy Commissioner informed him of a tele 
phonic call from the Chief Minister and that officer then went to the retiring room 
with the telephone . After coming back he ordered that the rest of the recount 
would be carried out on the following day . Fateh Chand admitted that he had 
been the President of the District Jan Sangh once and of the Panipat City Jan 
Sangh twice . He had appeared as a witness on behalf of the Jan Sangh Candi 
date Randhir Singh in the election petition filed by Ch . Kartar Singh , the Congress 
candidate , against the election of Randhir Singh in 1967 from the Assembly cons 
tituency . He stated that he was present for about 2 to 2 hours at Samalkha 
when the counting was done . He could not recall if he had stated in his evidence 
that the counting had been done regularly and properly . The counting relating 
to Panipat segment was admitted by him to have started on the evening of 21st 
February and although the irregularities and illegallties mentioned by him had 
been committed hoth on the evening of the 21st and also on the 22nd February , 
he did not inform the petitioner on the 21st February about them . He agreed 
that both sides were being heard by the Assistant Returning Officer when he gave 
A decision about the rejection or acceptance of votes, 


.PW . 3 Ram Lal, who had also contested the elections in 1967 from the Karna ) 
Assembly Constituency on Jan Sangh ticket and had been returned from that 
Constituency , stated that the counting relating to the Karnal segment started or 
the morning of 21st February , 1967, in the Rest House at Karnal. The Assistant 
Returning Oncer was Shri Ram Singh , General Assistant to the Deputy Commis 
stoner. According to him , the said officer was showing favour to the respondent 
by accepting ballot papers relating to him and rejecting those which contained votes 
in favour oť the petitioner on grounds similar to those which have been stated by 
the previous witness Fateh Chand . He admitted in cross -examination that the 
counting Agents of the petitioner were sitting on all the tables. They made onlv 
oral complaints . He went on to state that hundreds of ballot papers had been 
Illegally accepted and rejected in the manner indicated . But he could not give 
the number of such hallot papers as had been rejected on account of marks not 
hring at the proper place . 


PW . 4 Shiv Ram Another MLA , who had been elected on the Jan Şangh ticket 
in the elections held in Frhruary , 1967, from the Nilokhert Assembly Constituency , 
stated that he was present when the counting of the Nilokheri segment took place 
at Karnal, He gave evidence similar to that of the previous two witness with 
regard to discrimination which was being practised by the Assistant Returning 
Officer in the matter of rejection and acceptance of votes . According to him 


2080 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


the petitioner came there a couple of times for short periods and objected to all 
that was being done. His counting agents , who were present, raised objections 
but no heed was paid . In cross- examination , he admitted that my written objec 
tions were Aled to the illegalities which were being committed in the matter 
of acceptance and rejection of ballot papers. He could not give the number relat 
ing to each of the categories of ballot papers mentioned above which were Ble 
cally rejected or accepted . 


Banwari Ram P . W . 5 , a Sarpanch of village Kudalain and Chairman of the 
Republican Party , who had contested the elections from Jundla Assembly Cons 
tiuency in February , 1967, stated that he was present throughout the period of 
counting in respect of the Jundia segment at Karnal. His deposition is similar to 
that of PWs 2 and 3 with regard to the alleged irregularities and illegalities com 
mitted in the matter of rejection and acceptance of the ballot papers. He had 
made a complaint in writing to the Returning Officer, who was the Sub - Divisional 
Oficer , concerning the Assembly elections and on his complaint recount had been 
ordered. The recount was done in respect of two or three polling stations . He 
left in disgust, because he found that the said officer was acting with partiality . 


PW . 7 Raghubir Singh Saini, Advocate , who was the election agent at Panipat 
of Fateh Chand, PW . 2 , stated that he was standing near the Sub - divisional Omcer 
or Magistrate who was the Returning Officer for the Assembly Constituency and 
the Assistant Returning Officer for the Karnal Parliamentary Constituency when 
the disputed ballot papers were brought to him . He deposed to the discriminatory 
treatment accorded to the ballot papers in which yotes had been cast in favour 
of the petitioner and the respondent respectively . Dharam Singh who was the 
counting agent of the petitioner , was present and he pointed out the irregularities 
to the Assistant Returning Officer . On his doing so , sometimes one or two ballot 
papers were properly rejected or accepted . He went to Karnal at 6 . 00 p . m . when 
the final counting of votes of the entire Parliamentary Constituency was done on 
23rd February , 1967. He met the petitioner and told him that lot of irregularities 
had been committed at Panipat and it was unfortunate that neither be nor his 
agent who could properly look after his interest was present there. The petitioner 
Instructed K . N . Sahnı, Advocate to submit an application for recount. After 
hearing arguments , the Deputy Commissioner, who was the Returning Omcer , 
said that recount would be done for the whole of the Parliamentary Constituency . 
The recount started at about 7 .45 p . m . At that time he acted as the counting 
agent of the petitioner . The counting went on till 10 . 45 or 11.00 p . m . while count 
ing in respect of 22 polling stations had been done , a telephonic message was re 
ceived by the Deputy Commissioner. The peon told him that the message was 
from the Cheif Minister. That offlcer left that place and returned after 15 or 
20 minutes . He then directed that the counting would be continued on the follow 
Ing day at 8 . 00 a .m . When this witness went to the Court of the Deputy Commis 
sioner on the next day it was announced that recount would take place only of 
three segments and not of the entire Parliamentary constituency . The petitioner 
protested but no heed was paid . He went to Delhi and met the Election Commis 
sioner Shri K . V . K Şundram . He was accompanied by C . Mukhtiar Singh , MP. , 
President of the Haryana Bharatiya Jan Sangh . All these grievances were ex 
plained to Shri Sundram but the latter said that the result of the election had 
already been announced and , therefore , nothing could be done. He admitted that 
he had been a member of the R . S . S . S . for the last 10 or 12 years . He was one 
of the accused persons in the criminal case which was started as a result of three 
persons who got burnt in fire in Panipat in March , 1966, but he was acquitted . 
The Sub Divisional Officer did not tell him or any one else representing the peti 
tioner not to come and stand near his table . Sharam Singh Advocate who was 
the counting agent of the petitioner , is an advocate of 29 / 30 years standing. He 
did not raise any protest or Ale any objection relating to the manner in which 
ballot papers were being rejected or accepted in writing. At every table there 
was a counting agent of the petitioner . But no one was present on his behalt 
near the Sub Divisional Officer . The counting at Panipat finished at about 
2 . 00 p . m . but he did not inform the petitioner until the evening of 23rd February 
about the irregularities mentioned by him . He maintained that the orders which 
the Deputy Commissioner had made on the evening ot 23rd February for a recount 
were verbal and not in writing . At the time of recount it was found at his table 
that some of the bundles relating to the respondent contained ballot papers of the 
potitioner but he could not give the number of the polling booth to which they 
related . At the conclusion of the recount on that evening so far as he could 
remember total number of 24 such ballot papers had been wrongly included in 


Sec . $ (di)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2081 


the bundles relating to the respondent. At his table three ballot papers in which 
votes had been cast in favour of the petitioner and which had been invalidated 
were found on recount to bę valid but he could not say whether they were counted 
as vald votes or not . When he talked to the petitioner between 6 and 6 . 30 pm . 
on the evening of 23rd February, 1967, it was being generally said that the petl 
tioner had lost by a very small margin . When the recounting was stopped on 
23rd , 1967, at about 11 .00 p . in , 55 votes were added to the account of the respon 
dent and 8 votes to that of the petitioner. The petitioner walked out on the morn : 
Ing of 24th February , 1967 , so as to dissociate himself from the counting , 

P . W . 36 Bishan Dass, the counting agent of the petitioner for the Gharalinda 
segment. stated that he was present at the time of counting at Karnal. His evi 
dence with regard to the Irregularities committed in the matter of rejection and 
acceptance of ballot papers was on the same lines as that of the previous witnesses . 
On a rough estimate he could say that 150 ballot papers were rejected so far as 
the petitioner was concerned and 50 were accepted in respect of the respondent. 
In cross - examination , he stated that the supervising staff used to take all the 
ballot papers including those which were in order and those which were disputed 
to the Assistant Returning Officer who used to hear arguments of both sides with 
regard to the disputed ballot papers , but that officer was acting in a partisan 
manner. He admitted that no objection in writing was Aled pointing out the 
aforesaid irregularities nor was any record lept of the votes which were being 
rejected or accepted irregularly or illegally . So far as he could remember the 
petitioner was leading by 3 , 000 votes from the Gharaunda constituency . 

The petitioner , who appeared as P . W . 37 introduced certain other matters 
about irregularities. According to him he saw at some polling stations that two 
ballot papers were being given to each of the electors who went for casting their 
votes . When an elector happened to be simpleton . the person near the ballot 
box would take away the white ballot paper from him which was meant for 
the Parliamentary election and only give him the pink ballot paper for putting 
the mark with the prescribed instrument. There used to be a place near the 
ballot -box which was divided into two compartments . In one compartment 
marks had to be made on the ballot papers for the Parliamentary seat and in 
the other compartment marks had to be made on the ballot papers for the Assembly 
seat. An intelligent or a literate person used to take each ballot paper and put 
the mark on it and then put it in the ballot box but this rusc was being played 
on simple minded and illiterate electors that they were given only pink ballot 
paper for putting the mark with the prescribed instrument. The white ballot 
paners , which were so retained by that person , were utilised in this way . He 
would either put them in the ballot -box blank or he would , on finding an 
opportunity , himself go and put the mark with the prescribed instrument and 
then put them in the ballot -box . Another device which was adopted was that 
those persons who were regarded as favourably inclined towards the petitioner 
were kept waiting in a queue till 5 O clock and were not allowed to cast their 
votes . As regards the Nilokheri segment, he gave cvidence about the rejection 
and acceptance of the ballot papers on lines similar to the previous witness , SO 
also about the Panipat and Babain scgments . He came away from Babain and 
went to the bungalow of the Deputy Commissioner who was the Returning Officer 
and told him that every possible irregularity and illegality was being committed 
in the matter of counting . The Returning Officer directed him to file a written 
application . When he fled the application for recount, the Returning Officer told 
him that a recount would take place of the entire constituency . The recount 
continued upto 11 or 11. 15 at night. At that very time the peon of the Returning 
Omcer informed him that a telephonic call has come from the Chief Minister . 
After attending to the telephonic call the Returning Omcer said that there would 
be no further recounting and that the rest of the recounting would be carried out 
on the following dav . Next day , the notitioner enquired whether it was true that 
the rccount was to be in respect of only three segments. The reply of the Deputy 
Commissioner was in the affirmative and therefore , the petitioner gave a written 
application demanding recount of the entire constituency . He instructed his 
counsel to move the Elcction Commission in the matter . An application was suly 
mitted to the Election Commission on 27th February . The recount which took 
place relating to 23 polling stations of the Babain segment in which there were 
about 55 to 56 stations showed that in polling stations 10 and 11, three ballot 
papers in which votes had been cast in the petitioner s favour were found to have 
been put in the bundles of the respondent. Similarly 6 . 9 and 2 ballot papers were 
found to have been put in the bundles of the respondent from three other polling 
stations. What was further done was that after the petitioner had been given 
credit for these votes , the other ballot papers in which votes had been genuinelly 
cast in favour of the petitioner were rejected in equal number or more and even 


2082 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY +, 1968 / VAISAKI 


14 , 1890 


[PART II 


EdL 


those ballot papers in which votes cast in favour of the respondent had been 
Tejected . were accepted . As a result of such irregularities as many as 2 , 300 ballot 
papers in which votes had been cast in favour of thy petitioner were wrongly 
rejected and 500 /600 ballot papers in which votes had been cast in favour of the 
respondent had been illegally rccepted . In cross - examination , he admitted that it 
was on the night of 19th February that he learned about the ballot papers having 
been given to electors who were illiterate or simple minded by the person near 
the ballot-bax for marks being put with the prescribed instrument in the manner 
which has been indicated in examine - in - chief. According to the petitioner , he had 
been on the move all the time. On the following day also he did not file any 
written application though he had orally represented to the Deputy Commissioner 
in that behalf. He asked Ratti Ram , who was his polling agent at the Gondher 
polling he did by means of annexure L on the 28th February , 1967. According 
to the petitioner , he did not have counting agents in their full strength at all the 
counting stations but one or other of his counting agents was present at each one 
of those stations. K . N . Sahni Advocate was present when the petitioner 
intructed him to make an application for recount and the application was written 
by him . In that application he had mentioned only about the irregularities with 
reference to the counting relating to Babain Assembly constituency . But 
according to the petitioner that was only illustratlve. He admitted that he did 
not give the details of the manner in which the yotes were being rejected or 
accepted of the nature which had been given by him in his examination - in - chief . 
According to him the order of the Deputy Commissioner made on his application , 
exhibit P . 339 , was not made in his presence or to his knowledge, During the 
process of recount he did not make any written protest about any illegality . When 
questioned why he had not stated in his application , Exhibit P 340, that the 
Returning OMcer had announced the order on 23rd February , 1967, that the 
recounting of all the nine segments would take place and that the actual order 
which was written was different and was confined to the recounting of the three 
segments only , the petitioner stated that he did not want to annoy the Returning 
Omcer by writing about that matter . He admitted that the portion marked A to 
A in Exhibit P . 340 was written under his instructions and that staternents con 
tained in that application were correct . 

The evidence of the witness produced by the respondent to rebut the allega 
tions made by the petitioner as also in support of the allegations in the recrimina 
tion pctition on the point may be briefly referred to RW . 7 Om Parkash Singla , 
counting agent of the respondent, stated that he was present when the counting 
took place of the Panipat and Samalkha segments . He did not see any of the 
Assistant Returning Officers committing any irregularity . On the contrary some 
members of the counting staff appeared to be pro - Jan Sangh . In his presence 
on objection was raised by any one on behalf of the petitioner that the counting 
was not being done properly or that any irregularity was being committed . In 
cross - examination , he admitted thai the ballot papers on which there was a 
smudge for mark of the prescribed instrument apart from the mark itself used to 
be rejected , but if any ballot paper bore a stain of ink apart from the mark of 
the prescribed instrument that was not rejected . He could not say that the pre 
ponderant number of ballot papers which were rejected in the above manner 
related to the petitioner . According to him they related to both the candidates. 

RW . 8 Lashkari, counting agent of the respondent at the time of counting at 
Panipat and Samalkha segments . stated that no particular complaint was made 
by any of the representatives of the petitioner in the matter of counting . No 
one stopped anyone of the counting Agents from making a note of the serial num 
ber of the ballot papers which were accepted or rejected or any of the other 
particulars appearing on them . Every ballot paper could be seen by the counting 
agents . Dharam Singh Advocate was present on behalf of the petitioner who 
himself came once or twice. None of them raised any objections. Whenever any 
dispute arose in respect of any of the ballot papers that matter was settled 
between the counting agents of the parties and in case of further dispute it was 
referred to the Assistant Returning Officer . According to him such ballot papers 
on which there was a mark of the prescribed instrument and some smudge which 
appeared to have been caused by the mark in the course of folding of the ballot 
papers were accepted and votes contained therein were counted in favour of the 
candidate against whom the mark appeared to be of the instrument. 


R . W . 9 Yashpal Singh , counting agent of the respondent at Nilokheri, Indri ad 
Jundla segments , stated that he did not notice any ilregularities being committed . 
According to him when the counting relating to Indrj segment was being done on 
the second day and when it was found that the respondent was leading by about 
2 , 000 votes , the petitioner raised certain objections. And similarly about Jundla 
segment when the respondent had a lead of about 4 ,000 votes the petitioner started 


SEC . 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2083 


raising verbal objections . The peticioner Mled an application for recount after 
it had become known that he was going to lose the election by a margin of 29 
votes . Uptil then the postal ballots etc . had not been counted . The application for 
recount was opposed on behalf of the respondent. The Deputy Commissioner 
after hearing both sides announced his orders to the effect that recount would be 
allowed only with regard to three segments . The recount continued till about 
11. 00 P . M . As a result of the recount the number of votes cast in favour of the 
respondent actually increased . The Deputy Commissioner kept of sitting at his 
table throughout and did not go out anywhere nor was my message delivered to 
him by any peon in his presence . It was the petitioner who wanted the recount 
to be continued on the following day because it had become very late . The next 
morning , however, the petitioner filod an application asking for & rccount of the 
cntirc, constituency . When the Deputy Commissioner said that pursuant to the 
order made by him rccount could proceed only in respect of three scgments , the 
petitioner as also his agents left. 

The evidence of RW , 19 Om Parkash Tuli, RW . 20 Ram Lal, R . W . 21 Aditya 
Parkash and R . W . 23 Jagdish Chander is hardly of much consequence and need 
not be mentioned . RW . 24 Chaman Lal, the counting agent of the respondent, 
stated that he was present when the counting relating to Karnal segment took 
place and he also kept on going to the place where the counting was being done 
relating to the Nilokheri segment on 21st. February, 1967 . No complaint was made 
either by the petitioner or any one of his agents or representatives concerning 
counting with regard to the aforesaid two segments. On 22nd February , 1967, 
he went to the Court of the Sub - Divisional Magistrate , Thanesar , where counting 
relating to the Babain segment was going on . The standard which was being 
observed in the matter of rcjection and acceptance of the ballot papers was 
found to be more strict there then what he had observed on the previous day 
in respect of Karnal and Nilokheri segments . The respondent had a lead oť 
5 ,500 votes there and it was apparent that by applying a strict standard more votes 
which had been cast in favour of the respondent were being rejected . After 
counting of votes of about forty polling stations had been completed , the petitioner 
sald that he was not satisfied with what was being done and the counting should be 
stopped . At that time, the respondent leading by about 5 , 000 votes. As regards 
the recount ordered by the Deputy Commissioner, the witness gave a statement 
on lines somewhat similar to the previous witness . In cross -examination , he 
stated that none of the votes vast in favour of the petitioner was found in the 
bundles of the respondent, 


R . W . 25 Madho Ram , respondent, stated that he was present at the time of re 
count. The petitioner had asked for a total recount, but after hearing argu 
ments , the Deputy Commissioner ordered that recount should take place in respect 
of three segments only . The recount started at about 8 . 00 P . M . and continued 
upto 11. 00 P . M . No. objection or complaint was inade by the petitioner while the 
rccount proceeded or by any one of his agents . The recount was stopped at 
11 .00 P. M , because everyone was feeling tired and the petitioner suggested that 
it should be continued the next morning . The Deputy Commissioner never 
received any message from any one on telephone in his presence. Next niorning 
the petitioner insisted that recount should be done in respect of the entirc 
constituency . The Deputy Commissioner did not agree. The petitioner iefi by 
way of protest; and so did his companions . 

R . W . 16 Om Parkash Gupta , Election Naib Tehsilder , deposed after looking 
at Exhibit P . 343 that the position after the recount was that 90 ballot papers which 
had been rejected were dcclared to be valid while 27 ballot papers which had 
originally been declared valid were rejected . The difference came to 63 votes. 
the ballot papers relating to which had originally been rejected but which were 
found valid . Out of thesc 63 ballot papers, only 8 were found to have been cast, 
in favour of the petitioner and the remaining 55 in favour of the respondent. In 
answer to the question whether the ballot papers which hore the mark of the 
prescribed instrument against the name of one candidate and a smudge or a mark 
of the instrument against the name of another candidate , were accepted or 
l ejected , the witness stated that rejection and acceptance was being done according 
to the instructions contained in the hand -book for the Returning Oflicer . Some 
ballot papers having doubtful smudge were seen by him to have been rejcereri 


There are certain facts which have been emphasised by Mr. C . L . Lakhanpal, 
counsel for the respondent, which may be noticed before relevant complaints or 
applications which were flled by the petitioner are discussed . The colinting in 
respect of Samalkha , Karnal and Nilokheri segments took place on 21st February , 
1967. The respondent was losing in the Samalkha and Karnal segments by 210 
and 2 ,978 votes, He, however , had <r Icad of 1,478 votes in the Nilokherj segment. 


2084 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


(PART II 


The counting relating to the Panipat segment started on 21st February , 1967, in 
the evening and it continued on the 22nd February , 1967, On 22nd February , apart 
from Panipat segment the counting relating to Babain , Indri and Gharaunda took 
place . In the Babain and Indri segments the respondent had a lead of 5 ,492 and 
3 , 303 votes respectively . In the Panipat and Gharaunda segments hc was losing 
by 2 ,931 and 3,772 votes respectively . The counting relating to the Naultha seg 
ment started on 22nd February , 1967, and continued on 23rd February , 1987. The 
and in the Jundla segment he was gaining by 3694 votes. He had as a result of 
the final counting, a majority of 29 votes apart from the postal ballot papers in 
which 108 votes of the Police Constables were found to have been cast in his 
favour. Similarly 19 votes of the military personnel were found to have been cast 
in his favour. The respondent was thus winning by 156 votes . This was the 
overall position before the recount ordered by the Deputy Commissioner , Now 
the petitioner , according to Mr. Lakhanpal and those facts have not been contro 
verted by Mr. Nehra filed his first complaint and on the same day he Aled a second 
complaint relating to Indri segment. The complaint about Nilokheri was also 
Aled on that very day although the counting had concluded on 21st February , 
1967. The third complaint was filed on 23rd February , 1967 about Jundla segment. 
It is pointed out that no complaint was on 21st February , when the petitioner wag 
winning. It was only when he started losing that he commenced Aling applica 
tions containing objections. He never Aled any complaint about the Naultha 
segment. It is apparent, according to Mr. Lakhanpal that the petitioner was 
leading in the Samalkha , Karnal, Panipat, Gharaunda and Naultha segments and 
it was only in Nilokheri, Babain , Indri and Jundla that the respondent was 
leading. It is also clear that whatever objections were filed they related to 
Babain . Indri, Nilokheri and Jundla segments only . 

Exhibit P . 334 is the application dated 22nd February , 1967, which was filed 
at about 12 . 00 P . M . addressed to the Returning Officer, Babain Assembly Consti 
tuency , saying that the following irregularities were being committed to which 
serious objection was taken 
1 . “ That the votes which were doubtful were brought to your ( ? ) for 

decision are being cancelled arbitrarily meaning thereby that the 
votes of Jan Sangh which are correctly stamped are being cancelled 

in spite of my oral protest. 
2 . That the ballot papers of the Congress candidate which are not properly 

stamped are being accepted in spite of the protest. 
3 . That some of the people at the counting tables are mixing the ballot 

papers of Jan Sangh in the Congress bundles and no action is 
being taken against them in spite of the fact that they have been 
caught while committing this mischief " . 


Exhibit P . 335 which does not bear any date was addressed to the Returning 
Omcer , Karnal Parliamentary Constituency , saying that the counting of Babain 
Assembly Constituency votes at Thanesar under the supervision of the S . D . M . 
had been extremely defective and wrong. Some Government employees who 
had been deputed for sorting out of the votes were actually caught smuggling the 
votes polled for the petitioner in the bundle of votes for the Congress candidate . 
It was further alleged that there had been a similar bungling and smuggling of 
votes in the Nilokheri and Indri Assembly Constituencies. It was prayed that 
there should be a recount in respect of the aforesaid three segments . 

Exhibit P . 336 is an application dated 22nd February , 1967, addressed to the 
Returning Officer which was received by him at 3 . 30 P .M . In that the irregularities 
mentioned are the same as In Exhibit P . 334 . The order made on this application 
reads : 
" I have contacted SDO Thanesar on telephone. The counting from the 

Babin Constituency which was being done today has been campleted 
by him . The result will be sent to me today . Put up tomorrow at 
the time of counting." 


At page 9 of the record and immediately after Exhibit P . 338 , there is an 
order of the Assistant Returning Omcer in the following terms: 
" Swami Rameshwar Nath Ji made an application that counting of his 

Parllamentary seat should be done again . One Supervisory Oncer 
had placed the votos in the bundle of Shri Madho Ra , while Swami JI 
felt that it should have been placed in the bundle of doubtful votes. 
I examined the votes and I am satisfied that the Supervisory Officer 


Sec . $ (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2085 


exercised his best discretion . I do not think that the votes should 
be counted again . However , Returning Officer , if he so decides may 

recount the votes before the declaration of the reşult." 
At page 13 , there is another order of the Assistant Returning Officer, Karnal, 
as follows: 
" Swami Rameshwara Nand Ji, a candidate for Karnal Parliamentary Consti 

tuency , Karnal, made an application asking for recounting of Nilo 
kheri and Indri Assembly Constituency votes. He has submitted 
that bungling, has been done in counting of votes and votes have 
been smuggledl. On the date when votes of Nilokher Assembly 
Constituency were counted , Swami Ji had not raised any objection . 
In fact, he had expressed his complete confidence in counting of 
votes . This application was given when counting for Jundla Assembly 
Constituency had nearly finished . Obviously this application was 
made when he realised that he had lost the battle . An application 
was also made by Swami Ji for recounting of Indri Assembly votes . 
This application was forwarded to the Deputy Commissioner / Return 
ing Omcer yesterday . This application is also forwarded to the 

Returning Officer with my comments ." 
These orders seem to have been made with reference to very short and brief 
applications in Hindi made by the petitioner , Exhibit P . 337 and 338 . 

On the 23rd February , 1967, the petitioner Aled an application , Exhibit P . 339 , 
which is a brief one and its material parts may be reproduced : 
“ 1. That the petitioner is a candidate for the Parliament for Karnal Consti 

tuency . 
2 . That the counting of Babain Assembly Constituency votes at Thanesar 

under the supervision of the S . D . M . Thanesar has been extremely 
defective and wrong . Some Government employees who had been 
deputed for sorting out the votes were actually caught smuggling 
the votes polled for the Congress . No action was taken against such 
officials. A copy of the application made to the worthy S . D . M . 

In this connection is attached herewith . 
3. That there has been a similar mishandling of votes on the other Consti 

tuencies also . This was pointed to the Assistant Returning Oficers 
and other officials deputed for counting at that very time. In some 
boxes number of votes R to have been polled as shown in the account 

are less than those actually taken out of the boxes ." 
The Deputy Commissioner recorded an order at the back of that application which 
reads : 
" This application has been given by Swami Rameshwara Nand for re 

counting in all the constituencies for Vidhan Sabha comprised in the 
Karnal Lok Sabha Constituency . The reason given is small margin bet 
ween the votes polled by the two contestants and some irregularities 
noticed at the time of counting before the Assistant Returning Officers. 
Such objections were taken only in regpect of Babain , Indri and Jundla 
Assembly Constituencies. The allegations were about mixing of 
votes polled by the petitioner in the bundles of the other candidate 
and acceptance of ballot papers which were not properly stamped . 
In view of this, I order recounting of votes in the above mentioned 
three constituencies . In respect of other constituencies no such 
compliant was made to the A . R .Os. and the candidates were obviously 

satisfied about the counting in those places ." 
On the 24th February , 1967, in the morning another application , Exhibit P . 340 , 
was presented on which the order by the Deputy Commissioner was : 
" Swami Rameshwara Nand , one of the contestants for the Karnal Lok Sabha 

seat had applied for recounting of ballot papers in all Assembly 
Constituencies comprised in the Karnal Lok Sabha seat. I had 
Allowed recounting of three Constituencies for the reasons already 
given in my order dated 23rd February, 1967. Swami Ramesh 
wara Nand has now applied that this is not acceptable to him 
and he is not willing to associate with the recounting of these Assem 
bly Constituencies. I, therefore , close the recounting and proceed to 
declare the result. The request for staying the announcement of the 


2086 


THE GAZET TE OF JNDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[ Part Il – 


declaration till their application to the Election Commission is decided, 

is also disallowed . 
I would like to observe that I have set out the main applications made by the 
petitioner and the orders recorded thereon mostly in extenso because a good deal 
of arguments has centred on the question whether the grievances which have now 
been agitated by the petitioner wherever agitated before the Assistant Returning 
Oficers or the Returning Officer and whether any facts and particulars were stated 
of the nature which have now been alleged and also tor the purpose of deciding 
to what extent the petitioner s case stands proved that the Deputy Commissioner , 
who was the Returning Officer , had ordered a recount of the entire Parliamentary 
constituency in the first instance but had changed his orders owing to a call 
from the then Chief Minister of Haryana Shri Bhagwat Dayal Sharma. 

It may be mentioned that the application which was submitted to the Election 
Commission has not been got produced and only the order made thereon Exhibit 
P . 310 is to be found on the record . It is stated thereini 
" A complaint has been received in the Election Commission that the count 

ing of votes polled in Karnal Parliamentary Constituency in Haryana 
Ştate was not properly done by the Returning Officer. It has also 
been alleged that various irregularities were committed and that 
the request for recount of votes in the entire Parliamentary consti 
tuency was refused . The complaint also apprehends that the election 
records will be tampered with it allowed to remain the custody of 
the Returning Officer . . ... ... 


The Commission directed that the gealed bundles of the papers and documents 
mentioned in the order be kept in bags which were to be sealed with the seal 
of the District Election Omcer , and that such bags would be opened only with the 
approval of the Commission or this court. It is necessary now to analyse what 
were the real grievances of the petitioner upto the stage of the making of the 
application before the Returning Oincer for recount on 23rd February , 1967. It 
can hardly be disputed that most of the allegations which were made were confined 
to the counting of Babain segment, although it was mentioned in a fairly tame 
manner that there had been bungling in respect of the counting of Nilokheri and 
Indri segments . In the order of the Returning Omcer dated 23rd February , 1967 
recorded at the back of the application for recount, it has been clearly stated that 
the objections were taken only in respect of the counting of Babain , Indri and 
Jundla segments . Mr. Nehra , counsel for the petitioner , in this statement apart 
from the mention of Nilokheri which was made in Exhibit P . 335 which did not 
bear any date . The order of the Assistant Returning Omcer , Karnal, which has 
been reproduced , would show that no objection was taken on the date when count 
ing was done in respect of the Nilokheri segment. On the other hand the peti 
tioner had expressed his complete confidence in the counting of votes regarding 
the Nilokheri segment. The petitioner s own statement is significant that in the 
application for recount, mention had been made only about the irregularities with 
reference to the counting relating to the Babain segment. According to him , 
K . N . Sahni, Advocate had been instructed by him to make the application for 
recount and that the application had been written by him . K . N . Sahn has not 
been produced but the application itself supports the statement of the petitioner 
that in the application for recount dated 23rd February , 1987, the main challenge 
or attack was to the counting of Babain segment. There was a general statement 
made in paragraph 3 that there had been a simillar mishandling of votes in the 
other segments also . I am satisfied , in these circumstances , that the Returning 
Oficer was completely justified in allowing recount in regpect of three segments 
only , namely , Babain , Indri and Jundla . I have further no manner of doubt that 
the allegations of the petitioner that the Returning Oncer had on 23rd February , 
ordered a recount of all the segments comprised in the Karnal Parlamentary 
Constituency and had later on the intervention by means of a telephonic communi 
cation of Shri Bhagwat Dayal Sharma ordered that the recounting should be 
confined only to the aforesaid three segments , have not heen proved. The original 
documents are tell - tale and it is not possible to helieve that the order which to 
recorded at the back of the application of the petitioner by the Deputy Commte 
sloner was not recorded on the 23rd of February or that any other arrier could 
have been recorded on that date which was changed to the order which actually 
exists on the record . The petitioner had summoned the Returing cer Shri 
Kulwant Singh as a witness but he was not examined . Even the oral evidence 
which has been led on this point by the petitioner lg not of such a nature that 


SEC. 8 (11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2087 


It can be relied upon and adopted for the purpose of holding that the order or 
the Returning Oncer was not properly and regularly made on 23rd February , 
1967. P . W . 2 Fateh Chand belongs to the Jan Sangh Party and P . W . 7 Raghubir 
Singh Saini was his election agent. In matters of political nature and even 
otherwise it would not be safe to rely on their oral testimony in preference to 
documentary evidence. I am equally convinced that the application Exhibit P . 340 
which was Aled by the petitioner on the morning of 24th February , 1967 was an 
after thought and that it was the petitioner who declined to associate himself with 
the entire recounting of the aforesaid three segments as is mentioned in the order 
of the Returning Omcer of 24th February , 1967 . 

The next and the most contested matter is whether the prayer made in Civil 
Miscellaneous No 195 / B / of 1967 for a recount at the present stage should be 
allowed . It has been maintained by Mr. Nehra that the Irregularities which had 
been deposed to by the various witnesses produced by the petitioner would justity 
an order of recount particularly when even in the recrimination petition the 
respondent has made a similar prayer . It may be mentioned that so far as postal 
ballots and tendercd votes were concerned it was decided by the Full Bench on 
18th October , 1967 , that the essential conditions for inspection and scrutiny relating 
to them had been duly fulAlled . Their production , inspection and scrutiny were 
consequently allowed . But the question now is whether inspection and scrutiny 
should be allowed of all the ballot papers relating to the entire Parliamentary 
Constituency and that there should be a recount of votes . Most of the decisions 
of the Supreme Court have been referred to in the Judgment of the Full Bench 
but it will be necessary to advert to the principles established by them once again 
for deciding the question of a general inspection and recount. The law as 
enunclated in Rai Sewak Yadav v , Hussain Kamil Kidwal and others, AIR 1964 
SC 1249 , is to be found in para 7 which may be reproduced with advantage : 

" An order for inspection may not be granted as a matter of course having re 
gard to the insistence upon the secrecy of the ballot papers , the Court would be 
justified in granting an order for inspection provided two conditions are fulAlled : 
(1) That the petition for setting aside an election contains an adequate 

statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies in 

gupport of his case ; and 
( ii) the Tribunal is prima facie satisfied that in order to decide the dispute 

and to do complete justice between the parties inspection of the 

ballot papers is necessary. 
But an order for inspection of ballot papers cannot be granted to support vague 
pleas made in the petition not supported by material facts or to fish out evidence 
to support such pleas. The case of the petitioner must be set out with precision 
sopported by averments of material facts . To establish a case so pleaded an 
order for inspection may undoubtedly , if the interests of Justice require , be 
granted , " 


The position in Dr. Jagjit Singh . v , Giani Karter Singh AIR 1966 SC 773. was 
quite parallel to the one which obtains in the present case . It will be useful to 
Arst refer to the judgment of this Court which on the point for consideration was 
delivered by me on 29th May , 1964 , sitting in a Division Bench (FAO No. 3E of 
1964 ). There the material facts which were stated with regard to the irregularl 
ties were these : - - 
( 1 ) " Some female members of the counting staff were returned candidates 

and they were wearing rings on their fingers which appeared to be 
like stamps used at the time of marking the ballot papers . During 
the course of counting these rings were freely used by such female 
members and marks were placed on ballot paners which rendered 
them invalid as bearing Officer and his staff in this manner were able 
to make a large number of valid votes polled in favour of the peti 

tioner invalid , 
From the very start the Returning Officer commenced rejecting votes 

Illegally which he could not reject under the Rules and he tris 1 to help 
the returned candidate by reducing the number of petitioner . As 
many as 138A votes were rejected by the Returning Omcer as invalid 
although 1100 votes out of them were valid and had been cast in 

favour of the petitioner , 
& The Returning Officer did not maintain a blackboard as was his duty to 

write down the polling results for every candidate and for every 


2088 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


polling Station . He himself wrote down the polling results in his 
own form and did not allow the petitioner or his counting agents to 
know the exact position . He was very sympathetic towards the re 
turned candidate and kept him apprised of the latest result of the 

counting 
( 4 ) The petitioner suspected during the course of the counting that bundles 

of the ballot papers were not rightly counted by the counting staff and 

the counting figures were being inflated in favour of respondent No. 1. 
( 5 ) On the request of the petitioner a ręcount was ordered of three polling 

stations. Some ballot papers having two marks on two symbols were 
found in the bundle of the returned candidate which had been accept 
ed whereas similar ballot papers were rejected in the case of the 

petitioner . 
The returned candidate in that case had been elected by a majority of 897 
votes. The Tribunal set aside the election and declared It void after a recount. 
The election petitioner was found to have obtained 79 votes more than the 
returned candidate , One of the main points which had been canvassed related 
to the correctness of the order of the Tribunal allowing inspection , scrutiny and 
recount. After discussion the relevant authorities and the evidence which was led , 
It was held that the election petitioner had not given particulars of the polling 
stations at which the votes alleged to have been refected were polled nor the 
reasons for which they were rejected by the Returning Officer and that no 
particulars had been given with regard to the number of votes cast in favour of 
the returned candidate which allegedly had been accepted although they ought 
to have been rejected . This is what was further observed on this aspect of the 
case : 
“ Now , these allegations did not satisfy the requirements of the law as laid 

down in the aforesaid two decisions of the Supreme Court . No 
lists of the votes intended to be objected to or the beads of the 
objection to each of these votes were given , which seems to be the 
essence of the rule to be found in Halsbury which was approved by 
their Lordships in Jabar Singh s case . I am " therefore , of the view 
that the allegations contained in the election petition of Dr. Jagjit 
Singh did not contain an adequate statement of the material facts 
and an inspection of ballot papers , in these circumstances, could 
not be granted to support yague pleas which were to be found in the 

petition or to fish out evidence to support such pleas." 
It le significant that although after recount it was found that the election 
petitioner had secured a larger number of votes, the appeal was allowed by the 
Division Bench and the order of the Tribunal was set aside on the ground that 
there was no prima facie case for allowing inspection of the ballot papers and a 
rocount. An appeal was taken against the judgment of the Division Bench to 
the Supreme Court. Their Lordships upheld out judgment and relterated the 
principles previously enunciated in the matter of allowing Inspection for the 
purpose of examining the allegations made regarding improper reception or rejecu 
tion of the ballot papers. The relevant rules in the matter were considered at 
length and it has been observed that the election petitioner has ample opportunity 
to examine the voting papers before they are counted and in case the objections 
raiged by him or his election agent have been improperly overruled he knows 
precisely the nature of the objections raised by him and the voting papers to 
which those objections related . It is in the light of this background that Section 
98 ( 1 ) of the Act has to be applied to the objections made for inspection of ballot 
boxes . Such an application must contain a concise statement of the material facts , 
The statement of material facts in that case was considered and at page 785 It was 
said : - - 
" We have carefully considered the allegations made by the appellant in his 

election petition as well as those made by him in his application for 
inspection and we are satisfied that the said allegations are very 
vague and general and the whole object of the appellant in asking 
for inspection was to make a fishing enquiry with a view to find out 
some material to gupport his case that respondent had recelved some 
invalid votes and that the appellant had heen denied some valid 
votes . Unless an application for inspection of ballot papers makes 
out a proper case for such inspection , it would not be right for the 
Tribunal to open the ballot boxes and allow a party to inspect the 


Sea. 8 (11 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2089 


ballot papers and examine the validity or invalidity of the ballot 
papers contained in it . If such a course is adopted it would inevitably 
lead to the opening of ballot boxes almost in every case and that 
would plainly be inconsistent with the scheme of the statutory rules 

and with the object of keeping the ballot papers secret." 
Mr. Nehra has relied a great deal on a judgment of a learned Judge of the Bombay 
Court in Election Petition No. 5 of 1967 decided on 1st September , 1967. It was 
held inter alia : 
( a ) it is not necessary that serial numbers of the ballot papers challenged 

by the petitioner must be stated in the petition . It is open to the 
petitioner to give such particulars other than the serial numbers of 
the ballot papers as the Court might consider to be adequate having 

regard to the facts of the case. 
( b ) the right of inspection is limited to rejected ballot papers alone and 

in respect of ballot papers which are alleged to have been wrongfully 
rejected , the law does not confer the right of inspection on the 

candidates or their counting agents . 
After dealing with the specifc ground raised in that case for challenging the 
election , the learned judge allowed inspection of all ballot papers which were 
rejected in the entire constituency and ballot papers accepted at certain centres . 
Mr. Nehra further sought to rely on Hukam Singh v . Banwari Lal Bipra and 
others . AIR 1965 Allahabad 552 and Begam Mafida Ahmed V . Rajendra Nath 
Barua and another , AIR 1985 Assam 62 . All these case were naturally decided 
on their facts . But with the utmost respect, the law which has been declared by 
the Supreme Court is binding and the decision in Dr. Jagjit Singh s case has dealt 
with all the necessary points which have arisen before me in this cage . 


I have in the earlier part of the judgment reproduced verbatim the allegations 
made with regard to the illegalities and irregularities alleged to have been com 
mitted in the matter of illegal rejection and acceptance of votes. The only speci 
fic allegations which are contained in the petition are to be found in clause ( vi) 
of sub - para (b ) of para 13 . All that was stated was that at two polling stations , 
namely , 10 and 11 , three votes cast in the petitioner s favour were found placed 
Inside the bundles earmarked for the respondent. Moreover , Fateh Chand VI 
detected two instances of 6 and 9 votes each having been placed in the bundleg 
of the respondent. In sub - para ( c ) the only specific matters mentioned is that 
out of 13876 rejected votes at least 1900 valid votes cast in the petitioner s favour 
have been arbitrarily rejected . In sub - para ( e ) , there was a general allegation 
that all vold and invalid votes were included in the count of the respondent. The 
number of auch votes pointed out was more than 550 , I fail to see how these facts 
are in any way more specific and detailed than those which were to be found 
in Dr. Jagjit Singh s case . It is abundantly clear that the tests which have been 
laid down in no uncertain terms by their Lordships have not been fulAlled , I 
would be fully justified in repeating what was observed by me sitting in Division 
Bench in Dr. Jagjit Singh s case that the election petitioner has not given parti 
culars of the polling stations at which the yotes alleged to have been rejected 
were polled not the reason for which they were rejected by the Returning Officer . 
The bald statement that 1900 valid votes cast in the petitioner s favour have been 
urbitrarlly rejected is altogether vague for fulfilling the requirements of the law . 
The least that should have been done was to categorise such votes according to 
the grounds on which they were rejected and the polling stations where that was 
done. The position is similar with regard to the allegation that a number of 
votes which ought to have been rejected were included in favour of the respon 
dent. The lists of the votes intended to be objected to or the heads of the 
objections to each of these votes was not given and the allegations which have 
been made in the petition clearly suffer from the infirmity of deficiency of material 
facts . The attempt on the part of the petitioner , therefore, to ask for scrutiny 
and inspection and recount is clearly one of making a roving or Ashing enquiry 
in the ballot boxes so as to justify the claims that the returned candidate s elec 
tion is vold. 


Mr. Nehra has referred to the evidence led by the petitioner giving certain 
details and the grounds of rejection of the ballot papers . So far as the reasons 
for rejection are concerned an objection was taken to the reception of that part 
of any such alleged Irregularity having been committed . I see no reason or 
any particulars or material facts stated in the petition such evidence could not 
be allowed . In my opinion , the objection to the reception of such evidence is 


2090 


TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968A\ AISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[Part II 


well founded and although I have narrated it while giving summary of the evid . 
ence of the witnesses , it is not possible to look into that evidence in the completc 
absence of similar or proper allegations in the petition . Mr, Nehra says that 
particulars were given about the ballot papers which had been cast in favour of 
the petitioner having been placed in the bundles earmarked for the respondent 
but these particulars were confined only to clause (vi) of sub -para ( b ) of para 
13 of the petition which admittedly do not make any material difference . The 
petitioner s evidence being interested in the sense that it consists of most of the 
candidates who contested the Assembly elections from the Jan Sangh party to 
which the petitioner belongs or who were either his election agents or counting 
agents or his own statement cannot, be regarded as reliable and in some parts 
relevant for the purpose of deciding whether the ballot papers were illegally 
rejected or accepted for the reasons given by them . 

The various complaints which were fled in writing by the petitioner have 
been adverted to and Mr. Nehra agrees that the allegations relating to ballot 
papers having been put in wrong bundles were confined only to the polling sta 
tions in Babain and Jundla segments . Now the Returning Officer allowed 
recount in respect of these segments and as a result of it the respondent s count 
Increased on the 23rd February , 1967 . Thereafter the petitioner dissociated him 
self and refused to take part in further recounting as has been found by me 
previously . The petitioner cannot now turn round and make a grievance and 
ask for recount oť all the sęginents in the entire constituency including those 
about which he had not grievance whatsoever and where he won a preponderat 
ing majority of votes . 


Mr. Nehra says that in Civil Miscellaneous No. 89E of 1981, he has brought 
out certain facts which cannot be overlooked and which if found to be true should 
be decisive in the matter of ordering inspection and scrutiny of all the ballot 
papers as also a recount. In my order dated 23rd November , 1967, this matter 
has been dealt with . In short, it has been alleged in the said petition that pur 
guant to the direction of the Full Bench while the Naib Tehsildar was trying to 
take out the ballot papers relating to tendered votes and the corresponding ballot 
papers alleged to have been cast by some persons earlier by false impersonation 
etc . in respect of Khalsa Jaurasi polling station it was found that a very large 
number of ballot papers in which votes had been cast in favour of the petitioner 
had been counted in favour of the respondent. In particular , mention has been 
made of a bundle containing 50 votes on top of which a ballot paper bearing No. 
351341 in which the yote had been cast in favour of the respondent had been 
placed . Below this ballot paper the other ballot papers in which the votes had 
been cast in favour of the petitioner had been put. All the 49 ballot papers in 
which the votes had been cast in favour of the petitioner had been illegally and 
male fide counted in favour of the l espondent as the ballot paper on the top of 
the bundle contained a vote in his favour . In the first place there was no allega 
tion in the petition about this matter . Secondly , Khalsa Jaurasi was in the 
Şamalkha segment and no complaint was ever made even at the time of counting 
of any such alleged irregularity having been committed . I see no reason or 
justincation for acceding to the prayer made in the petition for allowing inspec 
tion and scrutiny of the ballot papers mentioned therein , Mr. Nehra had contended 
that inspection and scrutiny relating to the aforesaid ballot papers would show how 
irregularities were committed in the matter of putting ballot papers in proper 
bundles and, therefore , all the ballot boxes should be inspected in order to see 
whether similar irregularities had been committed or not. He has also reiterated 
the fact that in the recrimination petition , allegations were made about various 
irregularities in the matter of acceptance and rejection of votes and a recount 
was asked for. But it is common ground that at the stage of evidence no such 
facts were ayerred or deposed to on behalf of the respondent regarding irregula 
rities in the matter of putting all the ballot papers in wrong bundles. On the 
contrary , the witnessess produced by the respondent maintain that no Irregularity 
or illegality was committed . Mr. Nehra has relied on the order of the Full Bench 
which was mado in connection with production , Inspection and scrutiny of postal 
ballots and tendered votes ctc . But their inspection etc . was allowed because the 
Full Bench felt satisfied that a prima facie case had been made out and that 
proper and material facts had been stated in the petition which would justify the 
grant of prayer for inspection and scrutiny to the extent it was allowed . It is 
not possible to see how that order can be availed of by the petitioner for asking 
for inspection and scrutiny of all the ballot papers relating to the entire Parlia 
mentary Constituency and for a total recount. It is true that the margin between 
the votes polled by the respondent and the petitioner is fairly narrow but thal 
by itself is not sufficient to accede to the prayers made on behalf of the petitioner 
in the matter of inspection of all the ballot boxes and a total recount which are 


SEC . 3 ( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 2091 
-- _ - - -- - - - - _ . - = ASSO 

S = 
hereby declined . It will not be out of place to add that Mr. Nehra had , at crucial 
stages of trial, sought to abide by the result of the inspection and scrutiny of the 
postal ballots and the tendered votes and the prayer for a general inspection was 
at first made more or less in a halfhearted manner . When , however , it was found 
that as a result of the inspection of the aforesaid postal ballots and ballots relating 
to tendered votes the result of the election would not be materially affected . Mr. 
Nehra started pressing his prayer for a total and general inspection and recount 
which must be refused owing to the deficiency of material facts in the election 
petition and no prima facie case having been made out in that behall . 
My conclusion on issues 1 to 6 and 11 to 14 may be summarised as follows: 
( 1 ) Although there was some deviation from the original schedule in respect 

of the dates of counting, the petitioner was aware and had notice 
thereof. It has not been established that any prejudice was caused 

to him by the aforesaid deviation . 
12 , The petitioner has failed to prove that 1900 or more votes cast in his 

favour were improperly rejected . It has not also been satisfactorily 
proved how many votes cast in favour of the petitioner were placed 

inside the bundles earmarked for the respondent . 
( 3 ) The petitioner has been unsuccessful in showing that the Assistant 

Returning Officer and the Returning Officer adopted a partisan attitude 

and took the side of the respondent. 
( 4 ) The Returning Officer was perfectly justified in allowing recount only 

of the three segments mentioned in the crder dated 23rd February , 

1967 . 
The petitioner has neither alleged the material iucts nor has been able to 

establish a prima facie case for inspection and scrutiny of all the 

ballot boxes and for a total récount. 
As regards Issue No. 20 . reference has been made to the evidence of PW 31 
Lachhman Dass ind PW 38 Daulat Ram in the order of the Full Bench dated 
10th October , 1967. Their evidence is only to be read to be disbelieved . Moreover 
RW 13 Bhagwat Sarup , who was Superintendent of Police at Karnal when the 
elections were held in 1967 . altogether refuted the allegation that he had got 
issued all the postal ballots to the Police Constables at Karnal and had got a 
mark put in favour of the respondent on those ballot papers. He stated in cate 
gorical ternis that he did not take any part cither in the applications which were 
made for the issuance of those hallot papers or their receipt or their despatch and 
delivery to the Returning Officer . He did not know PW31 Lachhman Dass nor 
could he say if the latter had ever gone to see him during the election days. The 
issue is , therefore , decided against the petitioner . 


On Issue No. 91 PW 26 Kali Ram and PW 27 Manphul gave evidence . The 
former belongs to village Dodhpur. The polling station for that yillage was at 
Naraina which is at a distance of about a mile from Dodhpur. According to him 
a truck came to his village for carrying the voters of the respondent to the polling 
station . He and his son , Hoshiara , and certain other persons went in that truck 
While they were going in the truck , his son was standing on one side and on that 
side, the truck passed very close to a kikar tree . The branches of that tree hurt 
his son badly and virtually tore his body . He was removed to a hospital at 
Samalkha ancl he died soon after admission . He stated , " we were told that the 
truck belonged to Madho Ram , respondent. In that truck , there was a driver 
accompanied by another person ." He admitted that he never told the Police that 
he and his son were being taken in the truck for casting votes in favour of the 
respondent. He could not teil the name of the driver or of the other person who 
had said to him that all those persons were being taken for casting votes in favour 
of the respondent. The Socond witness Manphul also stated that a truck came to 
transport certain persons from his village Dodhpur on the date of polline . Ahout 
10 -45 persons went in it. He went on to gtats :- - " It was beinst sal that the 
truck belonged to the Congress. In other words, it was being said that the truck 
was of the respondent. It was being said that the truck had heen hired by him . " 
I am unable to hold on this type of evidence which is more or less of hearsay 
nature that the corrupt practice of conveyance of voters in the truck No. PNK 
2039 was committed as alleged in the petition . This issue is decider against the 
petitioner 

On Issue No . 22 . the petitioner has produced PWs 24 Daya Chand and PW 25 
Dalip Singh . The first witness who belongs to village Sondhapur, stated that he 


2092 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


(PART 11 


had to cast his vote in the Binjhol polling station . A truck of Malik Lal Chand , 
brick -kiln owner , came to his village at 7.00 a . m . Malik Lal Chand asked several 
of the villagers to sit in the truck for going to the polling station for casting votes 
and about 30 /40 persons went in that truck for that purpose . He admitted that 
he had taken the slip giving particulars relating to him from the camp of the 
petitioner . He appears without receiving any summons. He maintained that 
since the date of polling he had not met the petitioner . The second witness deposed 
that on the date of polling he saw that voters were being brought by Malik Lal 
Chand from village Sondhapur in a truck bearing No . 6038. When questioned 
about that getting a slip from the camp of the petitioner , this witness gave vague 
answers and was not prepared to reply to the question in a straightforward way . 
He never received any summons for appearance in Court. RW 1 Lal Chand, brick 
kiln owner stated that he owned truck bearing No. PNK , 6038 . According to him , 
he had never been asked by the respondent to carry any of the electors in his 
truck nor did his truck carry any such electors . He affirmed that on the date of 
polling neither he nor the driver of his truck transported any of the electors to 
the Pinjhol polling station . The evidence of the witness produced by the petitioner 
on the face of it is altogether unsatisfactory for the purpose of establishing the 
charge that Lal Chand Malik has transported some of the electors , in his truck 
with the consent of the respondent. I would find this issue against the petitioner : 


On Issue No. 23, only one witness has been produced by the petitioner PW 30 
Dharam Singh of village Binghol stated that a meeting was held at Qilla Grounds 
at Panipat a week before the date of polling . The meeting was stated to have 
been convened at the instance of the Congress candidate , namely , the respondent. 
There was a large gathering where one Lamba Sahib was speaking . He was 
followed by the respondent. They said that the petitioner was that Swami who 
had slaughtered family after family of Muslims during the partition days and he 
wanted all the Muslims to be sent out to Pakistan . The Muslims who were present 
in large numbers in the meeting were heard saying that the petitioner was a very 
dangerous person and that votes should not be cast in his favour. According to 
him this meeting had been held on 11th February , 1967. A number of other 
speakers also spoke but he could not inention their names. He admitted that he 
did not attend any other meeting. The respondent has produced RW 5 Khcm 
Chand , RW 6 Kundan Lal and RW 25 ( respondent himself ) in rebuttal, According 
to RW 5 Khem Chand , it was necessary to obtain permission of the Municipal 
Committee for holding a meeting in the Qilla Grounds at Panipat. No application 
was made to the Committee for any permission to hold a meeting on 12th February , 
1987 ; but such an application had been made by Dr. Ramji Lal for holding a 
meeting , on 11th February , 1967, Kundan Lal Lamba stated , he did not address 
any meeting on the 12th February, 1967, in the Qilla Grounds at Panipat. He 
denied having levelled any personal allegations against the petitioner . He stated 
categorically that he never addressed any meeting in the Quila Grounds at Panipat 
on 11th or 12th February , 1967. The respondent who appeared as RW 25 , admitted 
in cross examination that a meeting had been held on 11th February in the Qllla 
Grounds at Panipat but stated that he never attended it. On this evidence , I find 
it difficult to held on Issue No. 23 that Kundan Lal Lamba or the respondent made 
the speeches as alleged in paragraph 44 ( 1) , This issue is decided against the 
petitioner . 


On Iggue No. 24, two witnesses PW 32 Om Parkash Sharma and PW 33 Puran 
Chand were produced by the petitioner . They deposed to a public meeting 
having been held in Rana Majra which had been convencd by the Congress Party . 
When Om Parkash went at 12 . 30 P . M . Shugan Chand was addressing the meeting, 
He was followed by the respondent. 70 -80 per cent of the audience consisted of 
Muslims. According to Om Parkash , it was said in the speeches that the petitioner 
wanted Hindu Raj and he wanted to harm the Muslims and that the petitioner had 
In 1947 exacerbated the feelings of the Hindus by saying that the Muslims treated 
the Hindus in Pakistan with great cruelty and that they should be treated in the 
same way in India . He admitted that he did not attend any other political 
meeting. According to Puran Chand , the respondent had inter alia stated that 
the petitioner was on arch enemy of the Muslims and that he would turn them 
out of India and that he had got many of the Muslims killed in the riots of 1947. 
Puran Chand is a resident of Samalkha Mandl whereas Om Parkash is an 
Ayurvedic Practitioner of Babain . According to Puran Chand , the village Rana 
Majra was at a distance of about ten to eleven miles from Samalkha and the road 
was Katcha ; but he had gone to village Keshopur to see Sadhu Ram , who had 
an oll - engine, which was at a distance of a mile or a mile and a half from Rana 


Sec . 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2093 


Majra. He admitted that he and his family had known the petitioner for a very 
long time. He did not attend any other meeting. To rebut this evidence, the res 
pondent produced RW 2 Haji Sher Jang, whọ stated that no meeting was held 
at Rana Majra on behalf of the Congress Party in his village during the elections 
in 1967. He admitted that he generally used to go to attend the Jumma prayers 
on Fridays to Panipat . Kitaboo RW 3 , another Muslim resident of village Rana 
Majra , made a similar statement. RW 4 Shugan Chand stated that he never 
accompanied the respondent to any meeting at village Rana Mafra during the 
elections held in 1967. I do not consider that it would be safe to find the allega 
tions on which Issue No. 24 was framed as proved on the type of evidence which 
has been produced by the petitioner which has not struck me as impressive or 
convincing. I would , therefore , decide Issue No. 24 against the petitioner . 


As regards Issues 7 to 10 my Andings are 

It has not been established that the postal ballot papers on which votes were 
cast by the police constables on election duty were either received in a lump by 
Shri Bhagwat Sarup , Superintendent of Police , Karnal or were got marked in 
favour of the respondent at his instance . Even if there was non - compliance with 
the rules in the matter of issuance and receipt of the postal ballots Buch non - com 
pliance has not materially affected the result of the election . The net result of 
counting of thrce categories of votes , namely , those cast by the postal ballots 
and tendered votcs ( of which inspection and scrutiny was allowed ) and the votes 
cast by dead persons was that the election would not be materially affected in 
any manner vide my order dated 23rd November, 1967. 


The corrupt practices covered by issues 20 to 24 have not been proved . 
No other issue was pressed . 

The only issue which has been pressed and which requires determination in 
the recrimination petition is issue No. 1 , which is as follows: 


" whether the allegations in paragraph 3 of the recrimination petition amount 

to a correct practice ? If so , whether the electior peiltioner con 
mitted the corrupt practices under Section 123 ( 3 ) ( 34 ) and ( 4 ) of the 
Representation of the People Act, as alleged in paragraph 3 of the 
petition ? If so , its effect." 


IE ONE of practice 30, 3 of the 


The first Instance of the commission of a corrupt practice alleged in the 
recrimination petition in paragraph 3 ( it) ( a ) is that on 27th January , 1967, the 
election petitioner , his agents , supporters and workers collected a large number 
of people near G . T . Road at Panipat and addressed the gathering on lines ladi 
cated in the previous paragraphs. In thoso paragraphs, It has been stated that 
the election petitioner had been carrying on propaganda to the effect that the 
returned candidate and Shri Bhagwat Dayal Sharma, the then Chief Minister of 
Haryana , were resonsible for the continuation of cow - slaughter in that state etc . 
On 27th January , 1967 , it was alleged that in the presence of the persons, men 
tioned in the petition , a she - call was displayed with garlands around her neck 
and the election -petitioner repeatedly put the butcher s knife near the neck during 
his speech . RW 20 Ram Lal, who was the counting agent of the respondent in 
respect of the Karnal and Gharaunda segments stated that on 27th January, he 
saw a number of people standing near the Punjab National Bank which was 
situate near the Post Omce at Panipat. He had gone to post a letter and he saw 
the petitioner standing with a knife in his hand . There was also & calf standing . 
The petitioner was saying that if vote were given to the Congress , it would be 
tantamount to cow - slaughter . I recorded a note that the manner in which this 
witness had given evidence conveyed the impression as if he had been tutored 
by someone. RW 22 Tej Bhan has also deposed to what he saw on 27th January , 
1967, in front of the Punjab National Bank . He saw a jeep in which a calf had 
been seated and the petitioner , who had a knife in his hand , was saying that the 
giving of votes to the Congress would virtually mean the slaughtering of the 
call . He admitted that although he had becn much affected at that time by what 
he saw being a Hindu but substantially he felt that all that was done was merely 
by way of election propaganda. PW 2 Fateh Chand and the petitioner himself 
gave evidence in rebuttal. I am not at all impressed by the evidence of witness 
of the type of Ram Lal and Tej Bhan and , therefore , I would hold that the afore . 
said allegation made in the recrimination petition has not been proved . 


2094 THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1908 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 [Pakı il 

- - - - - - = = 
The next instance on which arguments have been addressed relates to a meet 
ing held in Arya Samaj Mandir in Karnal on 23rd January , 1967, where the peti 
tioner Is alleged to have addressed the gathering and made speeches of the pature 
alleged before , RW 17 Kasturi Lal was produced as the sole witness to prove 
the allegation . He stated that when he attended the meeting , the petitioner was 
saying that, apart from other matters, Pandit Bhagwat Dayal, other Congress 
leaders and the respondent were getting the Cows slaughtered and voting for any 
Congress candidate would lead to the slaughter of cows, The petitioner was 
further saying that if the cows were to be protected votes should be cast in favour 
of the Jan Sangh Candidates . He admitted that the speech of the petitioner had 
no effect on him but there were others who were influenced by it. PW 41 Dewan 
Chand and PW 42 Brij Bhushan Lal were produced by the petitioner to rebut 
the aforesaid allegation . Dewan Chand stated that he was the president of the 
Municipal Committee when the elections took place in 1967. According to him 
the petitioner came on a Sunday ( 22nd or 23rd January , 1967 ) and addressed a 
gathering after a Havan had been performed . He talked on religious topics and 
said that he was standing for election and he should be supported . The petitioner 
did not say anything about cow - slaughter or that if anyone voted for the Congress. 
he would be responsible for cow - slaughter . This witness was elected President 
of the Municipal Committee as a member of the Jan Sangh party . He is also 
an active imember of the Arya Samaj. His demeanour in cross -examination was 
not very satisfactory as noted by me. PW 42 Brij Bhushan Lal, a Municipal 
Commissioner of Karnal, gave a similar statement. He is the Secretary of the 
Jan Sanglı, Karnal City . Although the evidence in rebuttal produced by the 
petitioner is not very satisfactory , I am not at all impressed with the evidence 
of RW 17 Kasturi Lal. I do not consider that on his sole testimony the aforesaid 
allegation can be said to be proved. 


The third instance relates to village Pacholia (mentioned as Pacholia in the 
recrimination petition ) in Jundia Assembly Constituency where it is alleged that 
a similar meeting was convened on 18th February , 1967 . RW 10 Ganapat, a 
Member of the village Panchayat of Pacholla stated that meeting was convened 
by the petitioner at 10 AM , in dharamsala known as Rodan Ki Chopal, which 
was attended by 50 to 100 persons. The petitioner while addressing the meeting 
had the picture of a cow in his hand and had said inter alia that the Congress 
Party was getting the cows slaughtered . He had also stated that neither Pandit . 
Bhagwat Dayal had stopped the slaughter of cows nor would the respondent do 
so . On the same evening the villagers , whose number would be about 50 , con 
ferred among themselves . They used to previously vote for the Congress but 
as a result of the speech of the petitioner, they decided to yote neither for the 
petitioner nor for the respondent. There were about 750 to 800 elcctors in his 
village . On being cross - examined , this witness gave the names of Maiya , Arjan , 
Bhagwat Ram . Ram Chander etc . apart from Sadhu Ram and Jai Singh who were 
present there. He denied the suggestion that in the presence of Man Singh , 
Banwari and Lalu all the villagers took an oath that they would not vote for the 
Congress candidate because the road to the village was Kacha and there was no 
electricity and they were not satisfied with the Congress government in the matter 
of providing Pacca road or electricity to the village, RW 11 badhu Ram , a Sar 
panch of the Panchayat of village Pacholla , made a similar statement. According 
to him , out of the other Panches present were Om Parkash and Amar Singh , apart 
from RW 10 Ganapat. Banwari and Lalu were present at both the meetings held 
in the morning and evening on 18th February . RW 12 Jai Singh & Lambardar 
ot that village , deposed in similar terms. He had never met the respondent and 
had never told him about any of the matters deposed to by him . The petitioner 
produced PW . 9 Banwari Lal, an ex -Sarpanch of the village. According to Ban 
wari Lal, all that the petitioner said was that he was standing for the election 
and so was the respondent and the yotes be given to him . The petitioner did 
not have any picture or photograph of cow . On the eve of the date of polling 
the villagers gathered together. Their grievances were that nothing had been 
done about the drain which was passing along side their village and which used 
to spoil the croos there as also about constructing some bridges which were neces 
sary on the road which come to the village. The villagere consequently decided 
that they would not vote for anyone of the candidatoe This witness WAS Rode 
by raste. PW 40 Lal Singh . a Morher of the Panchavat. who is also a Rode by 
caste , stated that the petitioner came to the village Pacholla on 14th February , 
1967. He only said in hig speech to the gathering that he was standing for the 
election and so wag the respondent and that the electors should keep him in mind . 
The petitioner did not have any picture or photograph of a cow nor did he say 


Inc . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1990 


2095 


any of tho other things attributed to him . As regards the gathering of tho 
villagers and the decision taken by them on the evening preceding the date of 
polling , he made a statement similar to that of the previous witness. The peti 
tioner in his statement denied the allegations made against him . 


It has been strenuously urged by Mr. C . L . Lakhanpal that admittedly not # 
single elector exerclsed his right of vote from village Pacholia which corroborated 
the allegations contained in the recrimination petition and the evidence led by 
the respondent. Mr. Lakhanpal s suggestion is that all thc electors got so much 
infuriated against the respondent who was thç Congress candidate on account of 
what the pctitioner had stated in the matter of cow - slaughier and the protection 
of cows that they decided not to vote for the respondent although it is undisputed 
that during all the previous elections the clectors from this village were the staunch 
supporters of the Congress party . It is common ground that the witnesses who 
have appeared for the respondent belong to the Brahmin community to which 
the respondent belongs whereas the witness produced by the petitioner are Rodes 
who are non - Brahmins. The evidence which has been led by the respondent does 
not to my mind establish beyond doubt the allegations made by him . There is 
every possibility that the villagers decided not to vote for any of the candidates 
out of shecr disgust as they found that their substantial grievances were not 
being redressed by any one. I do not consider , therefore, that the aforesald 
allegations of corrupt practice made have been fully established . 

My conclusion on Issue No. 1 in the recrimination petition is that the corrupt 
practices covered by that issue have not been proved . 

In the result both the election petition and the recrimination petition aro 
hereby dismissed but keeping in view the entire circumstances of the case the 
parties are left to bear their own costs in the election petition as also the recrimi 
nation petition . 
29th January , 1968 . 

(Sd .) A . N . GROVER , 

Judge. 


[ No. 82 / HN /8 /67.) 

By Order, 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Expenditure ) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1531 . In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5 ) of article 14 , 148 , of the Constitution and of all other powers en 
abing him in this behalf and after consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor 
General of India in relation to persons serving in the Indian Audit and Accounta 
Department, the President hereby makes the following regulations further to amend 
the Civil Service Regulations, namely : - - 

1. These Regulations may be called the Civil Service ( First Amendment) Re 
Gulations, 1968 . 

2 . In the Civil Service Regulations, for article 351, the following article shall 
bo substituted , namely : 
“ 351. ( 1 ) Future good conduct shall be an implied condition of every grant 

of pension . The pension sanctioning authority may , by order in 
writing , withhold or withdraw a pension or part thereof whether 
permanently or for a specified period , if the pensioner is convicted 

of a serious crime or is found guilty of grave misconduct : 
Provided that no order shall be passed under this clause by an authcrity 

subordinate to the authority corpetent to make an appointment to the 
post held by the pensioner immediately before his retirement from 
service . 


2096 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


[ Part II 


- 


1 


( 2 ) Where a pensioner is convicted of a serious crime by a court of law , 

action under clause ( 1 ) shall be taken in the light of the judgment of 

the court relating to such conviction . 
( 3 ) In a case not falling under clause (2 ), if the competent authority under 

clause ( 1 ) considers that the pensioner is prima facie guilty of grave 

misconduct, it shall, before passing an order under clause (1 ), 
( a ) serve upon the pensioner a notice specifying the action proposed to 

be taken against him and the ground on which it is proposed to be 
taken and calling upon him to submit within Afteen days of the 
receipt of the notice or such further time not exceeding Afteen days 
as may be allowed by the pension sanctioning authority , such ro 

presentation as he may wish to make against the proposal; and 
(b ) take the representation , if any, submitted by the pensioner under 

clause ( a ) into consideration . 
( 4 ) Where the authority competent to pass an order under clause ( 1 ) ls the 

President, the Union Public Service Commission shall be congulted 

before passing the order. 
45 ) An appeal against an order under clause ( 1 ) passed by any authority 

other than the President, shall lle to the President and the President 
shall, in consultation with the Union Public Service Commission , paso 
such orders on the appeal as he deems fit. 

[No. F . 19 (1 )- EV / 88 .) 
S . P . MAHNA , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Ecomomle Altairs) 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1969 
SO . 1532 - Statement of the Alfairs of the Reserve Bank of India , is on the 19th April, 1966 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


Bro.3(11)) 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


17 41,48 ,000 

3, 17 000 
4,01,000 


Reserve Fund 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Natonal Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund , 


5, 00 , 00,000 Notes . . . . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . . . 
80 ,00,00,000 Small Coin . . . . 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
131,03, 00 ,000 (a ) Internal . . . . 

(6) External . . 

(c) Government Treasury Bills . 
25,00 ,00 ,000 Balances Held Abroad * . . . 

Investments* * . . . . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 


64,94 ,78 ,000 
147,39 :46 , 000 
192 ,44 ,34,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations ) Find , 


30400,00,000 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


130 ,06 ,57,000 


Deposits 


Loans and Advances to : 

(1) Central Government . . 

( ) State Governments @ . 
Loans and Advances to : 

(1) Scheduled Commercial Banhat 
(iD) State Co -operative Bankst . 
( ) Others . . . . 


(a ) Government 

Central Governmeat . 
(H ) State Governments . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


105 ,17 ,38,000 
153,81 ,46 ,000 

5,23,71,000 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


$ 2, 78,30,000 

4 , 13 ,25,000 


. 


2097 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Re. 


2098 


31 ,69,62, 000 
11:20,37,000 


6 ) Banks 

Scheduled Commercial Banks . . 
(i ) Scheduled State Co -operative Banks . 
(* ) Non - Scheduled State Co -operative Banks 
(iv) Other Banks . . . . . 


Loans, Advances and lovestments from National 

Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operacions) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to : 

State Governments . . . . . 
( ) State Co- operative Banks . . . . 

(a !) Central Land Mortgage Banks , 
(6 ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures Loans and Advances from National 
Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 


138 ,78 . 72 ,000 
7, 25,79, 000 
72,75 ,000 
8,93,600 


7 , 93 ,62, 000 


7224 ,03 , 000 


(2) Others . 
Hills Payable . 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


326 ,58,65,000 
29 ,66, 08 ,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


Other Liabilities 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


115,92.640000 


Loans and Advances to State Co -operative Banks . 
Loans , Advances and Investments from National Indus 

trjal Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to the Development Bank 
(6 ) Lavestment in bonds /debentures issued by the 

Developmeat Baak . . . . . . 
Other Assets 
Rupees , . 

, 


6,08,93 , 000 


62, 22, 18 ,000 


Rupees ] . 


. 


. 


, 


942 ,95 ,11,000 


942 ,95, 11, 000 


Includes Cash and Short -term Securities . 

* * Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 
Operations ) Fund, 

@ Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund , but including temporary overdrafts to 
State Governments . 

† Includes Rs. 86 ,07,13,000 advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17(4)(s) of the Reserve Bankļof India Act, 

Excluding Loans and Adrances from the National Agriculturai Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund and the National Agricultul Credit 
( Stabilisation ) Fund . 
Dated the 34th day of April, 1966 


PartII 


An Awuct purswat to the Reserve Bank of lodia Act , 1934, for the peok ended the 19th day of April 1968 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Sec.3(1)] 


LISBILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Notcs held in the Banking Department 
Nores i. circulati. . . . . 
Total Notes issued . . . . 


175, 89 , 25 ,000 
166,42,00,000 


, 1741,48, 000 

Gold Coin and Bullion 

( a ) Held in India . . . . 
. 3337,48,31,000 

b ) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities . . 
. 3354 ,89 ,79 ,000 

TOTAL . . . . . 
Rupee Coin . . 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
laternal Bils of Exchange and other Com 

mercial paper . . . . . 
. 

3354 ,89 ,79 ,000 TOTAL ASSETS 


282 , 31 ,25, 000 

75 , 20343 , 000 
2997, 38 ,11,000 


TOT 


Tota Li13.LITIES . 


L 


.LITES . 


. 


. 


3354 ,89,79,000 


THEGAZETTKOFINDIA;MAY4,1968/VALIAKHA14,1840 


Dated the 24th day of Aprü 1958. 


L K . JAA , 
Governor. 


[No, F . 363 )- BC /68. 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy . 


2099 


2100 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1988 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1968 
8 . 0 . 1633 - In exercise of the powerg conferred by Section 126 of the Income 
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following amendment to its Notification S . R . O . 1214 (No. 44 - Income- tax ) dated 
1st July , 1952 : 

In the Schedule to the said notifcation , against S . No. 9 , for the existing entry 
In column 4 , the following entry shall be substituted : 
" Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax , P -Range, Bombay . 

[No. 6 - F . No . 55 / 129 / 67- IT ( A . II ) - 1 


6 . O . 1534 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 126 of the Income 
tax Act, 1961 ( 43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following amendment to the Schedule annexed to its Notification No. 1 ( F . N0. 55 / 
233 /63-IT ), dated the 18th May , 1964 : 

In the said Schedule against Serial No. 9, for the existing entries in columns 
4 and 5 , the following entries shall be substituted : 
Col. 4 : " Inspecting Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax , Shillong Range, 

Shillong " . 
Col. 5 : “ Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax , Gauhati Range, 
Gauhatl " . 

[No. 7- F . No. 55 / 129 / 87- IT ( A . II). I 


S . O . 1535 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 126 of the Income 
tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes tho 
following amendment to its Notlication No. 2 ( F . N . 55 / 127 / 64 -IT ) , dated the 
20th March , 1906 ; 

The designation of Income-tax Omcers as appearing in sub -parag (1) and ( u ) 
shall be substituted as under : 
Sub - para (i) : For " the Income-tax Officer , Pondicherry " 

Read " the Income- tax Officer , Circle 1 ( 1 ), Pondicherry " . 
Sub - para (1 ) : For " he 1st Income-tax Officer, Nagapattinam " 

Read " he income- tax Oncers , Circle I ( 1 ) , Cicle I ( 2 ) and 
I ( 3 ) , Nagapattinam , 

[No. 8 -F . No. 55 / 129 / 07- IT . ) 


S . O . 1536 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 126 of the Income 
tax Act , 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the 
following amendment to the Schedule annexed to its Notification No. 1 ( F . No. 55 / 
233 / 63 - IT ) , dated the 18th May , 1964 : 

In the said schedule agalnst serial No. 10 for the existing entries in column 8 , 
the following entries shall be substituted : 
" Appellate Assistant Commissioner of Income-tax in their respective ranges." 

[No. 9 -F . No. 55 / 120 / 67- IT .] 
A . RAGHAVENDRA RAO , Under Secy . 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE , POONA 

CENTRAL EXCISES 

Poona, the 17th April 1968 
S . O . 1537. - In exercise of the powers vested in me under Rule 3 of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 , I empower the foilowing officers in the Poona Central Excise 


Sec. $ (li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2101 


Collectorate , to exercise within their respective jurisdictions the powers of the 
Collector under Rule 191- B ( 5 ) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , subject to th . 
Imitations specified against each : 
Where the duty evolved in each case does not exceed 
( 1 ) Dy. Collectors 

Rs. 10 , 000 / 
( 2 ) Asstt. Collectors 

Rs. 1,000 / 
( 3 ) Superintendents 

Rs. 250 / 

(No. C . E . R .-1 - 08 - ] 
D . N . LAL , Collector . 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 


S . O . 1538. - Messss. Formica India Ltd ., 9, Wallace Street, Bombay - 1, were 
granted licence No. P / RM / 2161186 , dated 8th December , 1967 for import of 
Rotogravures Cylinders ( after repairs) valued at Rs. 1, 40, 000 / - They have 
applicd for issue of a duplicate copy thereof for Exchange Control purposes only 
on the ground that the original has been misplaced / lost without having bean 
registered with any Bank authority and utilised at all. 


In support of this contention M / s , Formica India Ltd ., Bombay have produced 
an affidavit . The under - signed is satisfied that the original Exchange Control 
copy of the licence has been lost /misplaced . Therefore , in exercise of the power 
conferred under clause 9 ( cc ) of the Import (Control) Order 1955 , dated 7th 
Dcember 1955 , as amended , the Original Exchange Control Copy of the said 
Licence is hereby cancelled . 


A duplicate copy for Exchange 
lsgued . 


Control Purposes of 


the licence 


is being 


[No. Plastic /19( 88 )/ 66 -67/ RM0/28.] 

P. C . VERMA, 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, 


( Omce of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1539. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 9 of the Imports 
Control Order, 1955 , dated the 7th December, 1955 , as amended from time to 
time, the undersigned hereby cancels Import Licence No . G / DG / 2105602 / C / XX / 
24 / CH / 19 - 20, dated the 15th February , 1967 (both copics not utilised ) for the 
Import of Switchgear and Accessories valued at Rs. 3. 11 , 754 / - issued in favour of 
His . Crompton Greaves Ltd ., 124 - Janpath , New Delhi, 

The reason for cancellation is that the licensee agreed to supply indigenous 
material instead of Imported material, 

[No. 46 - G /Cont./ 66 -07 /GLS / 15 . ] 

S , A , SESHAN , 
Deputy Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 

for the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports . 


2102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1989 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


(PART IL 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 
( Department of Co -operation ) 
New Delhi, the 19th April 1968 


$ . 0 . 1540. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 - B of the Multi 
unit Cooperative Societies Act , 1942 ( 6 of 1942 ) , the Central Government hereby 
directs that all the powers or authority exercisable by the Central Registrar of 
Cooperative Societies under the said Act, shall also be exercisable by Shri P . N , 
Şahni, Director of Industrics , Haryana , in respect of the Multi -Unit Industrial 
Cooperative Societies which are or are deemed to be actually registered in the 
State of Haryana, including these societies which have become multi - unit socie 
ties consequent on the re - organisation of the Punjab State on 1st November, 1968 , 
under the Reorganisation Act, 1866 . 


[ No. 7 -4 /67 -Credit.) 
V . V . NATHEN , Dy. Socy . 


(Department of Agriculturo ) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
8 . 0 . 1541. — In this Ministry notification of even number dated 13th March , 1968 
constituting a Committee for Controlling and Supervising Experiments on Animals , 
please read " The Deputy Director General ( H . A . ) , Directorate General of Helath 
Services , New Delhi" in place of the existing entry against serial No . 4 . 

( No. 19 -2 / 87-L- D . IIL ) 
SANTOKH SINGH , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH FAMILY PLANNING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 


(Department of Health & Urban Development) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1.542. — The following draft of rules further to amend the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Rules, 1945, which the Central Government proposes to make, after 
consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of tha 
powers conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act , 1940 
( 23 of 1940 ) , is published , as required by the said sections for the information 
of all persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the 
gaid draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th July , 1968 . 


2 , Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person 
with respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by 
the Central Government: 

Draft Rules 


1. These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Rules, 
1968. 


2 . In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 , 
( 1) after rule 67 - E , the following rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" 67 - EE . Certificate of renewal. The certificate of renewal of a salo 

licence in Forms 20 - C and 20 - D shall be issued in Form 20 - E " 


pc. 3 ( )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968NVAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2103 


(2 ) In Schedule A , after the Form 20 -D , the following Form shall be 
inserted , namely : 

FORM 20 - E 

( See rule 67- EE ) 
Certificate of renewal of licence to sell , stock or exhibit for sale or distribute 

Homoeopathic medicines 
Number of licence and date of issue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
1 . Certified that licence No. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . in Form 

20 - C / 20 - D granted on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for sale 
of Homoeopathic medicines at the premises situated at. . . 

. . . . . has been renewed for a period from . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
2 . Name of competent person Incharge 
Date . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
. . . . . . . . . .Licensing 

Authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(No. F . 1 - 14 / 87 - D , ] 


8 . O . 1543 , - The following draft of rules further to amend the Drugs and 
Cosmetics Rules, 1945 , which the Central Government proposes to make, after 
consultation with the Drugs Technical Advisory Board , in exercise of the power 
conferred by sections 12 and 33 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 23 ot 
1940 ) , is published as required by the said sections for the information of all 
Dersons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th July , 1988. 

2 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person 
with respect to the said drait before the date so specified will be considered by 
the Central Government: 

Draft Rules 
1 . These rules may be called the Drugs and Cosmetics (Amendment) Rules , 
1988. 

2. In the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, in rule 43- A , 
(1 ) the entry " Castle Rock Railway Station : 

In respect of drugs imported by rail across the frontier with Gom " 
shall be omitted ; 
( 2 ) For the entry , 

" Madras , Calcutta Bombay and Cochin : 

In respect of Drugs imported by sea into India " 
the following entry shall be substituted , namely - 

Madras, Calcutta, Bombay , Cochin and Goa : 
In respect of drugs imported by sea into India. 

[ No. F . 1 - 17 /07- D . ] 
AMAR NATH VARMA , Under Secy . 
(Department of Health ) 
New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 


S . O . 1644 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of ection 
13 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1950 ( 102 of 1956 ), the Central Govern 
ment. after consulting the Medical Council of India , hereby makes the fullowin 
further amendment in Part II of the Third Schedule to the said Act, namely : 

In the said Part of the Third Schedule , for the existing entry " General 
Physician (Mowcow Medical Institute , Mowcow ) " the following entry shall be 
substituted , namely : 
" General Physician (Mowcow Medical Institute , First and Second Moscow ) " . 

[No. F .18 - 79 /85 -MPT.) 


2104 


THE GAZETTF, OF INDIA ; MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 

14, 1890 


[PART II 


New Delhi, the 26th April 1968 
9 . 0 , 1545 . — Whereas in pursuance of the provisions of clause ( b ) of sub -sectioa : 
( 1 ) or section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , Dr . N . P . 
Benawari, Dean Government Medical College, Jabalpur, has been elected by the 
members of the Court of the University of Jabalpur to be a member of the 
Medical Council of India with effect from the 7th February , 1968 vice Dr. D . S . 
Choudhary . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 9 
of the said Act , the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the notification of the Governmen of India in the late Ministry 
cf Health No . 5 - 13 /59 -MI, dated the 6th January , 1960, namely : - - 

In the said notification , under the heading " Elected under clause (b ) of sub 
section ( 1) of section 3 " , for the entry against serial No . 13 , the following entry 
shall be substituted , namely 
" Dr. N . P . Benawrl, Dean , Government Medical College, Jabalpur " , 

[No. F . 4 - 26 / 67 -MPT ) 


ORDER 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1546 . - Whereas the Govern ,nert of India in the Ministry of Health and 
Family Planning has, by Notification No. F . 18 - 13 / 66 -MPT, dated the 3rd June 
1966 made, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 
of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , recognised the medical 
qualification " M . D . (Women s Medical College of Pennsylavania Philadelphia , 
Pennsylavania U . S . A . ) for the purposes of the said Act ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to subt 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) , 
the Central Government hereby specifies a further period of two years with 
effect from the 8th December , 1966 or so long as Dr. Sister Mary Liguori Cən ! in 
who possesses the said qualification , continues to work in the Mercy Hospital , 
Jamshedpur to which she is attached for the time being for the purposes of 
teaching, research or charitable work , whichever is shorter, as the period to 
which the medical practice of the said Dr. Sister Mary Liguori Cantlin shall be 
limited ; provided that the said doctor continues to be enrolled as a medical prac 
titioner for the said period in accordance with the law regulating the registra 
ton of medical practitioners in her country . 

[No. F . 19 - 13 /67 - YPT ] 
L . K , MURTHY, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 

(Rallway Board ) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1547. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 85 of the Indian 
Railways Act , 1890 ( 9 of 1890 ) , read with notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 dated the 24th March , 
1905 , the Railway Board hereby makes the following amendments in the Rule3 fur 
the preparation of accident returns, puklished with the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Railways ( Railway Board ) No . S . O . 3312 dated 
the 31st August , 1964 , namely : 
In the said rules. . 
(a ) In rule ( 4 ), under the heading “ V , Definition of train accidents", -- 
(1 ) tor paragraph ( iv ) , the following paragraph shall be substituted , 

namely : 
" ( iv ) Accidents to trains shall be accounted for by the Railway which 

exercises jurisdiction over the site of accident. Engine failures 

shall be accounted for by the Railway owning the engines ." ; 
( li ) Paragraph ( v ) shall be cinitted . 


SEC 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2104 


(b ) In the statement of Accidents, in Table I, in item 3 :01, for the existing 

headings ( a ) and ( b ) , the following headings shall be substituted, 

namely : - - 
" ( a ) Passenger and mixed trains 

(i) in Electric and diesel locomotives 
( li ) in high tension compartment of Electric Multiple Unit stock 
( lit) other cases 
(iv ) total 
( b ) Other trains 

(i) In Electric and diesel locomotives 
( ii ) Other cases 
( li ) total." 

(No. 68 / Stat. I / 32 /Genl. 


C . S . PARAMESWARAN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1548 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
41 of the Air Corporations Act. 1953 ( 27 of 1953 ) and in partial modification of 
the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Tourism and Civil 
Aviation No. 20 - AC ( 14 ) /67, dated the 2nd February , 1968, the Central Govern 
ment, in consultation with Air - India , hereby appoints Prof. Ravi J . Matthal as 
a Member of the Advisory Committee of Air - India vice Shri M . A . Chidambaram . 

[No. 20 - AC ( 14 ) /87.] 
T , ARUMUGHAM , Dy. Secy. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . & T. Board ) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
8 , 0 , 1549. In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian 
Telegraph Rules , 1951, as introduced by S . O . No. 627 , dated 8th March , 1960 , 
the Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifies the 15th May, 1968 
as the date on which the Measured Rato System will be introduced in Udipt 
Telephone Exchange . 

[No. 5 -59168 -PHB ( 4 ). ] 


New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1550. — In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian 
Telegraph Rules, 1951, as introduced by S . O . No . 627 , dated 8th March , 1960 the 
Director General, Posts and Telegraphs, hereby specifes the 1st June, 1968 as 
the date on which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in Baruipur 
Telephone Exchange , 

[No. 5 -4368 - PHB ) 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
S . O . 1551, - In pursuance of para ( a ) of Section III of Rule 434 of Indian Tele 
graph Rules, 1951, as introduced by S . O . No . 627 dated 8th March , 1960, the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs, horoby sprifies the 16th May 1968 as the date on 
which the Measured Rate System will be introduced in Katni Telephone Exchange , 

[No . 5-60 /88-PHB (2).] 

D . R . BAHL, 
Assistant Director General (PHB ) . 


- 2105 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


PART 11 -- 


संचार विभाग 
( जार - तार बोर्ड ) 


नई दिल्ली , 18 अप्रैल 1968 


एस० प्रो० 1552, ---स्थायी आदेश क्रमसख्या 627 दिनांक 8 मार्च 1960 द्वारा लाग किये गए 
1951 के भारतीय तार नियमों के नियम 13 .4 के खड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुपार -तार महा 
निदेशक ने उदिपी टेलीफोन केन्द्र में 15 - 5 - 68 से प्रमापित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निवजय किया 


[ सं . 5 -59 


पी० एचडी ( 4 ) .] 


नई दिल्ली , 22 अप्रैल 1968 
एस० प्रो० 1553. - - स्थायी आदेश क्रमसंख्या 627 दिनांक 8 मार्च 1960 द्वारा लाग 
किए गए 1951 के भारतीय तार नियमों के नियम 434 के खंड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनप्तार डाक - सार 
महानिदेशक ने बराईपुर टेलिफोन केन्द्र में 1 - 6 - 68 से प्रमापित दर प्रणाली लागू करने का निश्चय 
किया है । 

[ से० 5-43/ 68 पी० एच० बी० ] 


नई दिल्ली , 23 अप्रल 1968 
एस० मो0 1554. -- स्थायी आदेश क्रमसंख्या 827,दिक 8 मार्च, 1980 द्वारा ताग किये 
गए 1951 के भारतीय तार निगमों के नियम 434 के खण्ड III के पैरा ( क ) के अनुसार खाक 
तार महानिदेशक ने कटनी टैलीफोन केन्द्र में 16-5- 68 स प्रमापित दर प्रणाली लागू करन का 
निश्चय किया ह । 

[ सं० 5- 60/ 69-पी० एच० बी० ] 

डी० आर० बल, 
सहायक महानिदेशक ( पी० एच० बी० ) । 


( P . & T . Board ) 
New Delhi, the 26th April 1968 


$ .0 . 1555 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 namely ; 


1. These rules may be called the Indian Post Office ( Third Amendment ) Rules , 
1968 . 


2. In rule 183 of the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933 , after clause ( ccc) , the 
following clause shall be added , namely : 

" ( ddd ) The Director of the Indian School of Mines, Dhanbad , provided 
that the articles posted by him relate solcly to the business of the said School." 

[ No . 24 / 1 / 68 - CI. ] 
V . E . ARUNACHALAM , 
Director Postal Technical. 


Shea, Ali)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2107 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

PUBLIC NOTICE 

New Delhi, the 4th May 1968 
8 . 0 . 1556 . — Notice under Section 10 ( 1 ) of the Delhi Development Act, 1957 
(No. 61 of 1157) read with rule 5 and 15 of the Delhi Development ( Master Plan . 
and Zonal Development Plan ) Rules , 1959, 

Notice is hereby given that: 

1. ( a ) a draft of the zonal development plan for each of the following zones, 
namely 

G - 1 (Najafgarh Road Industrial area ) 
G -4 (Nangal Sub - Station ) 
F - 18 ( Tuglakabad ) and 

1 - 1 (Narela ) 
has been prepared ; and 

( b ) a copy thereof will be available for inspection at the following officex 
between the hours of 11 - 00 A . M , and 3 - 00 P . M . on all working days except Satur 
days, till the date mentioned in paragraph 3 hereinafter : 
( 1 ) Office of the Delhi Development Authority, Delhi Vikas Bhawan , IP . 

Estate D , New Delhi, 
( 2 ) Office of the New Delhi Municipal Committee, Town Hall , New Delhi, 
( 3 ) Office of the Municipal - Corporation of Delhi, Town Hall, Delhl -6 ; and 

(4 ) Once of the Executive Officer , Delhi Cantt, Board , Delhi Cantt. 
2. Objections and suggestions are hereby invited with respect to these draft 
zonal development plans. 

3 . Objections or suggestions may be sent in writing to the Secretary , Develop 
ment Authority , Delhi Vikas Bhawan , I.P . Estate , New Delhi by the 3rd June, 
1968 , 

Any person making an objection or suggestion should also give his name and 
address . 

[No. F , 4 ( 11 ) / 88 - M . P . ) . 
B . C . SARKAR , Addl. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1968 


5 .0 , 1557. - . Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from G . G . Ş . No . I to oil 
Terminal at Sabarmati in the Kalol Oil Field , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should 
be laid by the Oil & Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying 
euch Pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the Right of user in the land described 
to the schedule annoxed thereto . 


2 . Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section (1) of tho 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from the data 
of this notincation object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority , at Elempeeco , 4th floor, Sayaji Gunj, Opp ., College Lokmanya 
Tilak Road , Baroda - 5 in the Office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project (Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission ) Barodą . Every person making such an objection shall. 
also state specifcally whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal prac 
Hitioner . 


- 2108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[Part II-- 


SCHEDULE 
Laying pipeline from G . G . S. 1, 10 O . T . Sabarmari 

Distt , : Ahmedabad 


State : Gujarat 


Taluka : Dascroi 


Village 


S . No, Hector Are 


S. No. Hector Are 


P. 


P . Village 
Are 
31 Chenpur 


Jagatpur 


Old Waste 
Land (Gamthan ) 


128 / 2 
128 / 3 
127 
126 


78 


X2 


72 


:::::::: 


74 


ซึ่งมี–พ05งหงษหง๐มีเดียน) 


6712 
65 /4 


::: 


: 


79 


:: 


125 
83 / 2 

71/3 
Cheppur 

149 
147 / 2 

66 / 1 
146 

67 / 1 
146 P . 
Road 

6713 
140 / 1 
140 / 2 / 2 
139 
114 / 1 
116 / P . y . 
Road 
116 
128 / 1 

IO 77 

[No. 29 ( 5 ) / 68 - IOC ( I) .] 
S . O . 1558. — Whereas it appea . s to the Central Government that it is nec ? 300ry 
In the public interest that the transport of Petroleum from G . G . S . No. I to Oil 
Terminal at Sabarmati in Kalol Oll Field , in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be 
laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying 
auch Pipelines , it is necessary to acquire the Right of user in the land described 
in the schedule annexed thereto . 

2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - sction (1) of the 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

. 3 . Any person Interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date of 
this notification object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Compe 
tent Authority , at Elempeeco , 4th floor , Sayaji Gunj, Opp ., College Lokmanya 
Tllak Road , Baroda -5 in the Office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project (Oil and Natural 
Gas Commission ) Baroda . Every person making such an objection shall also state 
specifcally whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 

Laying pipeline from G .G . S. 1, to 0 . 7 . Sabarmati 
State : Gujarat Distt. : Ahmedabad 

Taluka : City 
S . No. Hector Are P . State 

S . No. Hector Are P . 


Village 


Are 


Ranip 


12 Ranip 


00 


167 
168 
169 
174 / 1 
174 / 2 
190 / 1 
190 / 2 
189 
194 


00000000000000 


BЕGoouowн 


213 
222 
215 
216 
306 
305 / 17 
305 /2 
303 
302 


0000000000000 


Housewwwso 


195 


301 


93 


196 
121 
211 / 2 
211/ 1 


8 911 
12 45 ) 
2 25 13 


299 
297 0 I 9I 
292 
375 0 9 i 
( No . 29 (5 ) / 88-10C ( II).) 


Szc . 8( it )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2109 


S . O . 1559 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that the transport of Petrolcum from Ankleshwar Oll feld 
in Gujarat State to Uttran in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil & 
Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines , it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of user in the land described in the schedule annexed 
thereto . 


2 . Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 1) of the 
Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1982 ) , the Central Government hereby declares Its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 

3 . Any person Interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the data 
of this notifcation object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the Com 
petent Authority , at Elempeeco , 4th floor , Sayaji Gunj, Opp ., College Lokmanya 
Tllak Road , Baroda - 5 in the Office of the Gujarat Pipelines Project (Oil & Natural 
Gas Commission ) Baroda. Every person making such an objection shall also stato 
fpecifically whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 
Distt. : Surat 


State : Gujarat 


Taluka : Olpad 


* Village . 


S . No , 


Hector 


Are 


P . Are 


Mulad 


I 


[ No. 91( 38) /63-ONG /IOC .Vol.7.) 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1560. - In the schedule to thenotification of theGovernment of India in the Ministry of 
Petroleum & Chemicals $ . O . No. 1194 dated the 21st March , 1964 published in the Gazette of 
India , Part II, Section 3, Sub - Seclion (ii) dated the 4th April, 1964, the following may be de 
leted ;- - 


Village 


Şurvey Plot 

No. 


Extent in 
Acre -Diamal 


Saresar 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


0 . 10 


139 / 3 
175 /2 
178 


182 


183 


211 
212 
213 
215 
224 


oooooooooooooooooo 


0 . 08 


226 
227 / 1 
227 /3 
228 / 1 
229 


0 . 02 
O IO 
0 : 08 


236 


0 . 01 


237 


0 . 03 


2110 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1963 /VAISAKHA 14, 1840 


(Part Il 


Villago 


Survey plot No. Extent in Acre -Diamant 


238 
240 / 1 
245 
246 
247 
248 
249 
575 / 1 


O . IS 
0 .09 
0 : 13 
010 
OII 
0 . 01 
0 . 01 
0 . 04 


Paur . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


0 : 04 
00 
00 
0 . 03 
O OI 


217 
219 
228 / 1 
232 / 1 
244 
252 
264 
269 
270 / 1 
270 / 3 
610 
694 / 1 


0 . 04 
0 - 02 
0 . 03 


0 . 10 
0 .02 
0 .01 


0 . 02 


Bhojapu 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


218 / 1 
218 / 2 


0 .02 


Kakarahi Khurd 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


29 / 1 


O OI 
0 . 01 


72 





OT 


103 
104 /6 
129 /6 
141/ 2 


001 
0 . 02 


Goinshar . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


51 
54 


O OI 
0 . 02 


Pithapur 


749/ 1 
749 / 2 
763/ 2 


0 : 04 
0 . 05 
0 - 02 
0 . 02 
0 . 04 
0 .04. 
0 . 13 


0 : 01 


765 
767 / 2 
774 
776 
777 . 
781 / 1 
1036 
1040 
1046 / 1 
1047 
1052 
1053 


0 . 08 
0 . 02 
0 . 03 
0 . 01 
O - OI 
0 .01 
0 . 01 
O OI 


1054 


0 . 01 


1059 
1067/2 
1126 
1069 
112S/ 1 
IISI 
IIS3 
TISS/ 1 


0 .03 
0 - 02 
0 . 02 
0 . 02 
O - OI 
0 : 01 
0 . 01 


Bagaini 


22/ 4 
30 / 1 


51 


0 . 03 
0 - 03 
0 . 10 
0 : 04 
O : 10 


54 /25 
54 /27 
60 
61 


0 : 10 


Sec. 9( i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : VIY 1. 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2111 


- - : - - 


Survey plot 


Village 


No. 


Area in 
Acres Dismal 


Sanghali 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I < 3 
298 
299 / 3 
304 / 1 
104 / 5 
304 / 7 
313 
314 
315 
316 
317 
350 / 3 
350 ! 4 
350 / 8 
350 / 9 
351 
424 


0 . 11 
0 : 05 
0 . 02 
оог 
O 01 
0 . 02 
0 . 02 
0 . 02 
O - CI 


0 . 01 


0 - 03 
0 .01 
0 . 01 
O OI 
Oct 
OCI 
0 - 10 
0 . 06 


Sikatha 


635,11 
635 , 2 


0 . 04 


0 - 04 


2 : 06 
0 .01 


Naseerpur Patian 


89 2 
90 / 2 


01( 


200 


94 / 2 


0 - 02 


Jeewanpur 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


SOT 


0 . 02 
0 : 02 


CA 


Kori 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


0 . 05 
OII 
0 . 0 


Gharchit 


637 


? . 00 


Batthi 


Batthi . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


636 / 1 
637 
545 / 1 
64512 


0 . 02 
0 .01 
0 : 03 


0 . 02 


664 


665 


0 : 35 
0 . 09 
0 . 03 
0 . 01 


666 


667 


Harna Tundu 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


30 / 1 


0 . 38 


32 


0 . 01 


36 


0 . 01 
0 10 
0 . 30 


50 / 1 


0 . 03 


29 /52 
51/ 52 


0 : 03 
0 : 03 


(N1, 31(50 ), 63 ONG / IOC , Vol. 4 


2112 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1963 / VAISAKHA 11 , 1890 


{PART II 


. 


- - - 


S . O . 1 561. - In the Schedule to theNotification of the Government of India in the Ministry o 
Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No, 2720 dated the 25th July , 1964 published in the Gazette of Indias 
Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii ) date the 8th Juvust, 1964, the following may be deleted : - - 


Village 


Survey Plot 

No. 


Area in 
Acre - Dismal 


Mawai Khurd 


21 
25 / 1 / 1 
147 


0 .01 
0 . 05 
0 . 06 


Kurh Kalan 


338 / 1 


0 : 01 


[ No. 31/50/63/ONG /IOC - Vol. 4 (B )|| 


S . O .1562. - In the Schedule to the Notification of the Governmenų of India in the Ministry of 
Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No. 3022 dated the 26th August , 1964 published in the Gazette of 
India , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section (1 ) daled the 5th September, 1964 the following may be 
deleted : 


Survey Plot 


Village 


Arca ip 
Acre -Dismal 


No. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


21 


0 . 05 


Mawai Khurd 
Amoghpur 


60/ 1 


0 . 02 


[No . 31(50)/63! ONG /IOC -Vol. 4 ( C )] 


S . O . 1563 . — In the Schedule to theNotification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No. 2343 dated the 22nd July , 1966 published in theGazette of India 
Part II, Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii) dated the 6th August, 1966 , the followingmay be deleted : 


- 


- 


- 


Village 


Survey Plot 

No. 


Area in 
Acres -Dismal 


Saresar 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


0 . 07 


0 . 01 


232 
235 
237 
323 / 1 
324 /2 
325 
327 
450 / 1 
451/2 


0 . 09 
0 . 05 
0 . 08 
0 . 02 
0 : 25 
O OI 
O OZ 
0 . 04 


452 


454 
464 
520 / 2 
521 
527 
132 


0 . 06 
O OI 
0 : 02 


535 


02 


536 
567 / 2 
462 / 583 


0 . 07 
0 : 03 


No. 31 (50)/63/ONG /IOC - Vol. 4 (D ) ) 


Syc . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2113 


S . O .1564. - In the Schedule to the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Petroleum & Chemicals S . O . No. 2333 dated the 14th July , 1965 published in the Gazette of India , 
Part II , Section 3 , Şub -section (ii ) dated the 24th July , 1965 , the following may be deleted : -- 


Village 


Survey Plot 

No, 


Area in 
Acrc - Dişmal 


Saresar 


523 


0 . 23 


Nascerpur Patian 


. 


93 


. 
- - 


. 


0 . 05 


. 
- - 


. 
- 


- 


(No . 31(50)/63/ONG /IOC (Vol. 4) (E)] 

P. P . GUPTA , Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1565 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule (2 ) of rule 9 , 
clause (b ) sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 12 , and sub - rule ( 1) of rule 24 , read with rule 
34 of the Central Civil Services (Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 , 
the President hereby makes the following amendments in the Notification of the 
Government of India in Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 618 , 
dated the 28th February , 1957, namely : 
In the Schedule to the said Notification 
( 1 ) In Part II, General Central Service , Class III — for the entries against 

the description " Press Information Bureau - all posts " the following 
entries shall be substituted , namely : 


- - - 


- 


I 


Principal Infomation 

Officer . 


PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU 
a ) Headquarters 

Assistant 
Principal 
Information 

Officer, 
( h) Regional/Branch Offices . H-Iead of 

Regional 
Office . 


Assistant 
Principal 

Information 
Officer, 
Head of 
Regional 
Office , 


A11 


Principal Information 
Officer. 


( 2 ) In Part III , General Central Scrvice, Class ly — for the entries against 

the description " Press Information Bureau - - all posts " the following 
entries shall be substituted , namely : 


- 


All 


PRESS INFORMATION BUREAU 
(a ) Headquarters 

Assistant 
Principal 
Information 
Officer. 


Assistant 
Principal 
Information 
Officer. 


Director of Public 

Relations / Senior 
Deputy Principal 

Information Officer 
( In charge of Admi 
nistration ). 
Head of Regional 


(6 ) Regional/Branch Offices . 


All 


Section 
Officer / 
Administra 
tive Officcr . 


Office . 


Section 
Officer / 
Administra 
tive Officer . 


. 


- 


- 


- SS - - 


( No. 3 / 4 / 67-Spl. / (PIB )/ US ( K ). ] 

G . S . GUPTA Dy. Secy , 


2114 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1998/ VAISAKIIA 14 , 1890 


.... - . - - -- - -- - - 


- 


- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - - - -- - - - - 


- 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली , 22 अप्रैल 1968 


एस . प्रो0 156 ( -. - केन्द्रीय असैनिक सेवा ( वर्गीकरण, नियंत्रण और अपील ) नियमावली , 
1965 के नियम 9 के उपनियम ( 2 ) , नियम ( 12 ) के उपनियम ( 2 ) की धारा ( ख ) और नियम 
34 के साथ पठित नियम 24 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के अन्तर्गत प्राप्त अधिकारों के अनुसार राष्ट्रपति एतद्द्वारा 
भारत सरकार के सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय सं० एस० पार० प्रो० 618 , दिनांक 28 फरवरी , 
1957 की अधिसूचना में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करते हैं , अर्थात् - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना की अनसूची में --- 

( 1 ) भाग 2 में , सामान्य केन्द्रीय सेवा , श्रेणी 3 में विवरण “ पत्र सूचना कालर्याय — सभी पद " 
के सामने की जाने वाली प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियां की जायेंगी , अर्थात - - 


- 


- - -- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - 


- 


- - 


- 


2 


- 


समस्त 


पत्र सूचना कार्यालय 
( क ) मुख्यालय सहायक मुख्य सहायक मुख्य 

सूचना अधिकारी सूचना अधिकारी 
( ख ) क्षेत्रीय / शाखा क्षेत्रीय कार्यालय क्षेत्रीय कार्यालय 

कार्यालय का मुख्य अधिकारी का मुख्य अधिकारी 


मुख्य सूचना 
अधिकारी 
मुख्य सूचना 
अधिकारी 


समस्त 


( 2 ) भाग 3 में , सामान्य केन्द्रीय सेवा , श्रेणी 4 में विवरण " पत्र सूचना कार्यालय - सभी पद 
के सामने की जाने वाली प्रविष्टियों के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टियां की जायेंगी, अर्थात - ... 

..- - ---.. - - - - 


23 


- - - - 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


पत्र सूचना कार्यालय 
( क ) मुख्यालय सहायक मुख्य 

सूचना अधिकारी 


समस्त 


सहायक मुख्य 
सूचना अधिकारी 


जन सम्पर्क निदेशक / 
वरिष्ठ उप मुख्य 
सुचना अधिकारी 
( प्रशासन के 
अध्यक्ष ) । 
क्षेत्रीय कार्यालय 
का मख्य 
अधिकारी । 


( ख ) क्षेत्रीय शाखा अनभाग अधिकारी / अनुभाग अधिकारी समस्त 
कार्यालय प्रशासनिक अधि - प्रशासनिक अधि 
कारी 

कारी 


[ सं० 31 67 -स्पेशल (पी० आई०बी० ) यू० एस० ( के०) .] 

जी० एस० गुप्त , 
भारत सरकार के उप सचिव । 


Src . 8 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 2115 

-- - = 

= - - 
New Delhi, the 24th April 1968 
S . O . 1567. - In cxercise of thc powers conferred by rule 10 of the Cinemato 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government is pleased to appoint 
Shri S . Sunder Rajan , Information Omcer , Press Information Bureau , New Delhi 
to officiate as Regional Officer , Central Board of Film Censors , Madras , with 
effect from 10th April, 1968 , until further orders, vice Shri B . Dharmarajan , 

[No. 2 /28 /68 -FC. ] 
H . B . KANSAL , Under Socy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi. the 17th April 1968 
S . O . 1568. - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Gov 
ernment after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay hereby approves the Alm specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against it in column 
8 of the said Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCIIEDULE 
( 1) Sub -Section (4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act , 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952) . 
( 2 ) Sub -Section ( 3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Re 

gulation ) Act , 1953 (Bombay Act XVII of 1953). 
( 3 ) Sub -Section (4 ) of Section 5 and Section of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation ) Act , 1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ). 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


- - 


- 


- 


he 


$ 1 
No. 


Title of 
the film 


Length 
35 mm 


Applicant 


Name of the Whether a scienti 
Producer fic film or a film 

intended for 
educational pur 
poses or 
film deallag 
with news and 
Current events 
or a documen 
tary film . 


I. Rajkotni Vikas 

Yatra . 


513 . 59M 


Director of Information , Govern - Documentary Film 
ment of Gujarat, Sachivalaya , ( for release in 
Ahmedabad - 34 . 

Gujarat Circuit 
only ) . 


No. F . 24 /1 /68 -FP App. 1248 .] 
BANU RAM AGGARWAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT & REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1569 . — Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the presiding 
officer of the Industrial Tribunal No . 2 at Calcutta , constituted by the Notifca 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re 
habilitation (Depaitinent of Labour and Employment) No. $ . O . 2653, dated the 
24th August, 1986 ; 


2116 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


[Part 11 


Now , thereforc , in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
R , K . Das as the presiding ofcer of the said Industrial Tribunal with effect from 
8th April, 1968 . 

[No . F . 1 / 22 /68 - LRI- 11. ] 


S . O . 1570 . - Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the office of the presiding officer 
of the Labour Court No. 2 at Calcutta constituted by the notification of the Gov 
ernment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 2652 , dated the 24th August 
1966 ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of section 8 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shiri 
R . K . Das as the presiding officer of the said Labour Court with effect from the 
8th April, 1968 . 

[No: F . 1 / 22 /68 - LRI- II. ], 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 25th April 1968 
S . O . 1571, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank Ltd ., 
New Delhi and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Goverment considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A , and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 . of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 ot 
1947 ) . the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri J. S . Ranawat shall be the Presiding Oncer , with headquarters at Jaipur and 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal, 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of the management of the Punjab National Bank Ltd ., New 
Delhi in terminating the services of Shri Mangal Chand , Peon , in their Baran 
Branch , with effect from the 29th October , 1966 was justified ? If not, to what 
relicſ is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 23 / 15 /68-LR - III. ] 


S . O . 1572 .-— Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Şesa 
Goa Prlvate Limited , Altinho , Panjim and their workmen in respect of the mattors : 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tri 
bunal. Bombay, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the demands of the workmen employed in the Iron Ore Mines of Messrs 
Sesa Goa Private Limited , Altinho, Panjim . for the implementation of the recom 
mendation of the Central Wage Board for Iron - Ore Mining Industry with effect 
from the 1st January , 1967 as accepted by the Government of India in their reso 
lution No. WB - 2 ( 3 ) / 87 dated the 3rd June, 1967 are justified ? If so , to what relief 
are they entitled ? 

[ No . 24 / 8 /68 -LRI. ) 
O . P : TALWAR , Under Secy . 


Src . $ (11)] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIS : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKTIA 1:1, 1890 


2117 


intº hereby app for the purpomishment belongestablishment 
usory 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1573, - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby appoints Shri M . Rajendran to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Madras for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed 
thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the control. 
of the Central Government or in relation to any establishment connected with a 
railway company , a major port , a mine or an oil - field or a controlled industry . 

[ No. 20 ( 9 ) / 68 -PFI. ) 
S .O . 1574 , - - In cxercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Goy 
ernment hereby appoints Shri B . N . Prasad to be an Inspector for the whole of 
the State of Bihar for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed 
thereunder , in relation to an establishment belonging to , or under the control of , 
the Central Government or in relation to any establishment connected with a 
railway Company, a mine or an oil - field or any controlled industry . 

[No. 29 ( 11 ) / 68 -PFI. ) 
New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S .O . 1575. - - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Hiralal and Company, Post Box No. 8 , Vasco - da -Gama, Goa , have agreed 
that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , 
should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the said Act . the Central Government hereby applies the provisions 
of the said Act to the said establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th day 
September, 1966 . 

[No. 8 / 24 /68 /PF.- II.] 

DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 
( Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 2576, - .In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bansdeopur Colliery of Messrs New Bansdeopur Coal Company 
( Private Limited : Post Odce Kusunda , District Dhanbad and their Managing 
Agents , Messrs Ainritlal Ojha and Company ( Private ) Limited , Calcutta , of the 
one part and their workmen of the other part, which was received by the Central 
Government on the 16th April, 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

The 1st April 1968 
PriZSENT. 
· She 0 . C . Agarwala - - Presiding Officer . 

CASE No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 79 ) / 1967 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 

CASE REFERENCE NO. 39 OF 1965 (DHANBAD TRIBUNAL ) 
PARTIES 

Employers in relation to Bansdeopur Colliery of Messrs New Bandsdeopur Coal 
Company (Private ) Limited, Post Omce Kusunda, District Dhanbad ( Bihar ) and 
their Managing Agents, M / s . Amritlal Ojha and Company ( Private ) Limited , Cal 
cutta on the one part 

AND 
Their workmen represented through the General Secretary , Bihar Koyla Maz 
door Sahha . Dhanbad ( Bihar ) . 


2118 TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 [PART 1 
- - - - - - - - - 

- - = = - = - = - = 
APPEARANCES : 

For employers - - Shri R . G . Turnbull, Assistant Manager of the concern . 

For workmen - Sri Lalit Burman , General Secretary of the Union , 
INDUSTRY: Coal Mines 

DISTRICT: Dhanbad (Bihar) . 

AWARD 
By Notification No. 2 / 20 /65 - LR . II dated 11th March 1965 the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment) , Gov 
ernment of India , referred the following matter of dispute as stated in the schedule 
to the order of reference , to the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , 
for adjudication . It was subsequently transferred to this Tribunal by Notification 
No. 8 / 25 /17 -LRII dated 25th April 1967 : 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the action of the management of the Bansdeopur Colliery of Messrs 

New Bansdeopur Coal Company (Private ) Limited and their Manag 
ing Agents , Messrs Amritlal Ojha and Company ( Private Limited 
In guspending Shri Nibaran Chandra Kumar , Mining Sirdar with 
effect from the 30th November , 1964, and further dismissing him 
from service with effect from the 21st December , 1964, is justified ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


2 . The Union , Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha , which sponsored the dispute Aled 
the written statement before the Dhanbad Tribunal, The employers also Aled 
written statement- cum - rejoinder before the said Tribunal, The Union , however , 
Aled the rejoinder before this Tribunal in the preliminary hearing rendered at 
Allahabad on 22nd June 1967 when on perusal of the pleadings certain issues were 
framed . The case was then kept undated and after an adjournment had been 
taken by the employers hearing was ultimately rendered on 21st March 1988 at 
camp Dhanbad . The employers flled the record of cnquiry proceedings and other 
papers which were proved by an affidavit and were marked Ex . E / 1 to E .15 . One 
witness , Sri B . Joshi ( E . W . 1 ) the Enquiring Officer was produced for the emp 
loyers. No documentary evidence was Aled by the Union but one witness , Sri 
Anant Sharma Vice President of the Union , was examined. 


3 . The workman concerned , Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar , was a Mining Sirdar . 
of the employers to be hereinafter called the company . He had been in the emp 
loyment since 1951 but became a Mining Sirdar from March , 1960 ( Ex . E / 1 ) . 
The case of the Union was that there are two unioris operating in this Colliery . 
One is Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha of which Sri Nlbaran Chandra Kumar was 
an active worker and member executive of Bansdeopur Branch of the Union , The 
Company however was patronising another pocket Union and had been hostilo 
to this Union . On 29th November 1964 which was a Sunday a meeting was orga 
nised by Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha in the premises of this Colliery and Sri 
Nibaran Chandra Kumar took an active part in mobilising workers for this meet 
ing despite the opposition by the Manager and the Assistant Superintendent. This 
enraged the management and on the following day , the 30th November , 1964 , a 
charge - sheet was cooked up containing frivolous charges and after a show of 
farcical enquiry he was dismissed by the Asstt, Superintendent on 21st December, 
1964 after he was suspended from the very beginning and from the date of the 
charge - sheet. The whole thing was mala fide and Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar 
was victimised because of trade union activities . 

4 . The employers denied the allegations and contended that there was a bona 
fide enquiry conforming to principles of natural justice and as the charges were 
found proved he was dismissed . There were six charges framed and two of which 
were not found proved by the Enquiry Officer and were therefore dropped. It 
1$ alleged that this itself is a factor to indicate the bonafides of the management. 
It is denied that he was victimised because of his active association with the 
Union . The following additional issues framed in the case will show the point in 
controversy : 

Addl. Issues 
1. Whether the workman concerned , Nibaran Chandra Kumar was an active 

trade union worker and was victimised for trade union activities ? 
2. Whether suspension , charge - sheet and enquiry were all mala fide ? 
3 . Whether the enquiry was farcical and was vitiated for reasons enumerat 

ed in paragraph 8 of the written statement of the workmen ? 
4 . Was he gulīty of the charges for which he has been dismissed ? 


SEC. 3 ( 11)] THE G .VEITE OF INDIA : MAY 1. 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 2119 
- = - - - - = - = 

FINDINGS 
5 . Issues Nos. 2 & 3 - These two issues may he taken up together . 

There is abundant material to show that the charge - sheet was mala fide and 
the enquiry was farcical. It stands vitiated on a variety of grounds. The charge 
sheet runs as follows: - - 
1. You worked in S . B . Kandwadih colliery belonging to M / s. East India Coal 

Co . Ltd ., from 8th November 1963 to 20th November 1963 as Mining 
Şirdar while you were in our employment, without intimation to us 
This has been recently confirmed by the Chief Accounts Officer and 

the Provident Fund Commissioner s office . 
2 . On Saturday , the 28th November 1964, in your morning shift ( 7 A . M , to 

3 P . M .) you allowed miners to lift fallen coal from fanced off goaf 
near the 40 H . P . pump intentionally endangering lives of the Kumar 

miners of your own cast . 
3 . On Saturday , the 28th November, 1964, in your morning shift ( 7 A . M . to 

3 P . M .) you negligently engaged the mason and mazdoors for build 
ing isolation stopping in the area " B " below an overhang without pro 
perly dressing and testing it and all of a sudden about three tubs 

of coal fell and the mason narrowly escaped 
4 . You enganad miners in the depıllaring stock without eiccting props with 

in a distance o 95 ft. from the goal edge , which was detected by 
your next shift Mining Sirdar, Overman and the Mines Inspector , 

• Shri N , K . Basak , 
5 . You are not writing your Mining Sirdar s report and are in the habit of 

, disobeying instructions of the Overman on the plea that you have 

also obtained the Overman s certificate , 
6 . You are ordering the prop mistries to cut the bigger props and spoiling 

the value and utility of the same, Inspite of having small props in 

your underground stock , 
Charge No. 1 was dropped and so was charge No. 6 by the Enquiring Officer , 
The remaining four charges Nos . 2 to 5 relate to his duties in his shift on 28th 
November , 1984 as Mining Sirdar, The reply of Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar 
was that his duty was only to arrange and regulate the supply of tubs and the 
statutory duties under the Mines Act and Regulations had been entrusted to 
other Mining Sirdars. The Enquiry Officer admitted in his statement that these 
charges were framed on the report of the Overman , Curiously the said report 
was not Aled and was not disclosed to Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar . He was . 
therefore , kept in dark how these charges had been brought up against him . The 
conduct of the Enquiring Officer in holding the enquiry was far from fair . He 
started the enquiry with the statement of Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar and eln 
borately cross - examined him . The questions and answers run into five pages . 
These questions were not put with a view to elucidate the reply to the charge 
sheet and clarify his statement but are in the nature of cross -examination . The 
Supreme Court has depricated this tendency and observed as follows in A . C . C . 
Company Ltd . Vs. Workmen reported in 1963 ( 7 ) F . L . R . page 269 at page 272 : 
" It is necessary to emphasise that in domestic enquiries, the employer 

should take steps first to load evidence against the workman charged . 
give an opportunity to the workman to cross - examine the said evi 
dence and then should the workman be asked whether he wants to 
give any explanation about the evidence led against him . It „ eems 
to us that it is not fair in domestic enquiries against industrial em 
ployees that at the very commencement of the enquiry , the employee 
should be closely cross -examined even before any other evidence is 
led against him . In dealing with domestic enquiries held in such 
industrial matters , we cannot overlook the fact that in a large majo 
rity of cases, employees are likely to be ignorant, and so , it is neces 
sary not to expose them to the risk of cross - examination in the man 

ner adopted in the present enquiry proceedings ." 
Another infirmity found in the procedure is that after examination and cross 
examination of some of the Company s witnesses the workman , Sri Nibaran 
Chandra was again questioned . For example , when Sri M , N . Ghosh (witness 
No . 1 ) was examined and cross - examined the Enquiring Officer again put ques 
tions to Sri Nibaran Chandra . Then again it is significant to find that after the 
workman , Sri Nibaran Chandra , had produced his evidence the Enquiring Oncer 
recorded more witnesses for the company . They are S / Sri Fagir Das (Witness 


. 


- 


2120 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY +, 1968 / VAISAKHA H , 1996) (Part II 

- - - - 
No. 15 ) . Hari Rai (Witness No. 16 ) , Mahadeb Das (Witness No. 17 ) , and Rama 
yan Singh (Witness No. 18 ) . No doubt they were examined in presence of Sri 
Nibaran Chandra Kumar but the procedure was highly prejudicial to the work 
man after he had produced the defence. There are three other witnesses S / Sri 
S . S . Sarin (Witness No. 19 ) , Narayan Mukharjce (Witness No. 20 ) and K , N , 
Sirdar (Witness No. 21) who were also examined . There are no signature of the 
workınan concerned Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar and the allegat on that they 
were not examined in his presence appears to be correct. It is manifest that the 
Enquiring Officer was behaving both as a prosecutor and a judge. There was no 
representative for the management and he had practically identified himself with 
the management in the conduct of the enquiry . Dropping of the charges No. 1 
and i was a camouflage so as to give a show of impartiality . The enquiry , there 
fore , stands vitiated , 

8 , Issue No, 1 . - It cannot be a strange coincidence that the company decided 
to charge - sheet the workman for his latches if any during his shift duty on 28th 
November , 1984 after a meeting of the Union was held in the premises of the 
colliery on the evening of 29th November , 1964. It is in the evidence of Sri Anant 
Sharma that Sri Ojha the Asstt . Superintendent and his men appeared there and 
prevented a meeting to be held . The police had to be called and an order under 
Sec . 144 Cr. P . C . was promulgated , Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar was one of the 
organisers of the meeting . He was charge -shected and suspended the very next 
day . There is no rebutting evidence from the side of the company . It is evi 
dent that the charge - sheet was conceived on the following day and flimsy rea 
sons were dug out to punish Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar , The extreme penalty 
of dismissal was passed against him or offences of technical nature , assuming 
that there were lapses as alleged during his duty period . He has clearly been 
victimised , 

7 . Issue No . 4 . - It was open to the company to have justified the punishment 
by producing evidence before the Tribunal and to have proved that Sri Nibaran 
Chandra Kumar was really guilty of the charges . No attempt was made by the 
company to do so . The issue must therefore be answered in the negative. 

Decision 
The result is that the issue under refcrence will have to be answered against 
the company and it is held that the employers were not justified in suspending 
Sri Nibaran Chandra Kumar from 30th November , 1964 and further dismissing 
him from 21st December, 1964. He is entitled to be reinstated with back wages . 
The Union will be entitled to Rs. 100 / - as costs from the employers . 

(Sd.) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer . 

1 - 4 - 1968 . 
[No. 2 / 20 / 65 -L .RII. ) 


New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1:577. - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 19947 ( 14 
oľ 1947 ) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the Industrial disputes between the employers 
In relation to the Mondal s Bilbera Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh , District Dhan 
bad and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 
16th April , 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COURT. 

JABALPUR , 

Dated April 1, 1968. 
PRESENT; 
Sri G . C . Agarwala . — Presiding Officer , 

CASE REF . No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 100 ) /67 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 

CASE REFERENCE NO . 63 OF 1964 (DHANBAD TRIBUNAL ) 
ARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Mondal s Bilbera Colliery, Post Office Katrasgarh . 

District Dhanbad ( Bihar) , 


Vs. 


Their workmen , represented through the General Secretary , Blhar Koyla 

Mazdoor Sabha, Dhanbad (Bihar ). 


SEC. $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISA KHA . 14 , 1890 


2121 


( 2 ) 


APPEARANCES : 

For employers.-- Sri P . B . Mondal, Private Secretary of the Company .. 

For workmen . - Sri Prasant Burman, General Secretary of the Union . 
INDUSTRY ; Coal Mine. 

DISTRICT : Dhanbad (Bihar ).. 

AWARD 
By Notification No. 2 /46 /64 -LRII dated 22nd May , 1964, the Ministry of Labour 
and Employment, Government of India , referred the following matter of dispute 
as stated in the schedule to the order of reference to the Central Government In 
dustrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , for adjudication from where it was transferred to " 
this Tribunal by Notification No . 8 / 25 / 67 - LRII dated 25th April , 1967; - 

Matter of Dispute , 
Whether the action of the management of the Mondal s Bllbera Colliery in 

terminating the services of the following 43 workmen with effect 
from the 30th January , 1964 was justified ; if not, to what relief arca 

the workmen entitled ? 
( 1 ) Ramgolam Pashi, Miner . 

Natha Rajwar, Miner . 
( 3 ) Balkishan Rajwar, Miner . 
( 4 ) Ramjan Mia , Miner. 
( 5 ) Shiomurat Gope, Miner , 
( 6 ) Dujay Pashi, Miner, 
( 7 ) Gati Dusadh , Miner . 
( 8 ) Gariba Pashi, Miner . 
( 9 ) Bhalu Pashi, Miner . 
( 10 ) Kallu Pashi, Miner, 
( 11) Sukdin Lodh , Miner 
( 12 ) Ramsajibhan Pashi, Miner, 
( 13 ) Sangtha Pashi, Minei , 
( 14 ) Chotelal Pasht. Miner . 
( 15 ) Ratal Pashi, Miner , 
( 16 ) Ramcharan Pewat, Miner, 
( 17 ) Rambrich Thakur, Miner . 
( 18 ) Srinath Pashi, Miner, 
( 19 ) Parsi Pashi. Miner . 
( 20 ) Mahadeb Singh , Miner . 
( 21 ) Suklal Pashi, Miner . 
(22 ) Kallu Chamar, Minet . 
(23 ) Sital Pashi, Miner , 
( 24 ) Shiodas Pashi, Miner. 
( 25 ) Ramsankar Pashi, Miner. 
( 26 ) Badan Pashi. Miner. 
( 27 ) Algu Chamar, Miner . 
( 28 ) Ramprasad Rabidas, Minei . 
( 29 ) Sumer Rabidas, Miner. 
( 30 ) Hanu Ahir , Miner . 
( 31 ) Bishwanath Rabidas, Miner . 
( 32 ) Ram Manohar Koiri, Miner. 
( 33 ) Dujay Rabidas , Miner. 
( 34 ) Gobardhan Singh , Miner , 
( 35 ) Onkar Ahir , Miner . 
( 36 ) Amzad Mia . Miner. 
( 37 ) Rameswar Bhuja , Miner , 
( 38 ) Tetor Bhuia . Miner. 
( 39 ) Ramcharan Bhuis . Miner . 
( 40 ) Surja Pashi. Miner . 
( 41 ) Manickchand Dusadh , Miner . 
(42 ) Ramdeo Mahato . Miner . 

(43 ) Siroo Kumar, Prop . Mazdoor. 
2. Both sides Aled their statements of claim before the Dhanbad Tribunal. 
Rejoinder was Aled by the Union in preliminary hearing rendered at Allahabad . 
on 21st Junc, 1967. The following issues were framed in the case will show 
points in controversy between the parties: 

Issues 
1. Is the dispute not an industrial dispute ? 


2122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : Jurt, 1:153, 1.1 |KTIA 14 , 1890 


[I ART II 


2. Whether there wus sufficient justification for retrenching the concerned 

workmen ? 
3 . Whether the workmen concerned or any of them had not completed one 

year s continuous service to be entitled for retrenchment compen 

sation ? 
4 . Whether provisions of Section 25F were complied with ? 
5 . Whether some of the concerned workmen have accepted full and final 

payment of compensation . If so , its effect on the dispute ? 
6 . Was there victimisation in bringing about the retrenchment ? 
3 . The case came up for full heuring at camp Dhanbad on 21st March , 1968 
when employers examined one witness Sri P . B . Mondal ( E . W . 1 ) and the Union 
did not examine any witness . Both sides , however , filed certain documents which 
were proved by affidavits . They are exhibit as Ex . E / 1 to E / 5 for the employers 
and Ex . W / 1 to W / 3 for the Union . 

4 . It appears that services of 46 workmen were terminated by the management 
after a notice dated 28th January , 1964 with effect from 30th January , 1964 and 
they werc offered to collect their dues . These workers are known as C . P . Miners 
presumably because they hail from erstwhile Central Provinces and were engaged 
for special work of depillaring Before this retrenchment or termination the 
management had stopped depillaring work and offered alternative job as pick 
miners . There is a dispute as to actual number of these miners who offered to 
work as pick miners which is a tough job . According to the Union , they were 
36 in number whlle according to the management only some of them worked 
for a few days and their outturn was very low . Consequently , the services of 
46 were terminated and out of them are 43 concerned workmen The Union 
has challenged this termination as retrenchment which was unjustified with a 
view to victimise the workmen and was not brought about in accordance with 
law . Nor were they offered or paid statutory compensation . The management, 
however , contended that there was no motive of victimisation and since the 
depillaring work had Anished and the working phases were also reduced these 
C . P . Miners could not be provided with alternative job . There was 120 question 
of payment of any statutory compensation as none of them had rendered one 
year s continuous service to be eligible for compensation . No statutory notice 
was necessary and a notice in Form P was sent to authorities by way of abundant 
caution . All the workers concerned except Serial No . 41, 42 and 43 who were 
not in service at the time of retrenchment had accepted full and Anal payment 
of their dues and there is therefore no dispute left for the Union to agitate. 
It was also vaguely suggested that the dispute was not an industrial dispute . 
With these averments , the issues framed may be determined . 

5 . Issue No . 1 . — The pleas had been taken rather light heartedly and has not 
been pressed . The very fact that the dispute relates to retrenchment of 43 
workers is itself indicative of the nature of the dispute as an industrial dispute . 
It is answered in negative . 

6 . Issue No. 2 .-. - From the evidence of Sri B . P . Mondal ( E . W . 1 ) who is Private 
Secretary of the Constituted Agent it is clear that the depillaring operation at 
which these C . P . Miners had been working had finished . According to him these 
miners were served with notices and were offered alternative jobs as pick miners 
but only five or six of then turned up . They worked for about a week and 
the out turn was very poor. Since there was no work left for C . P . Miners there 
was no alternative but to dispense with their services . There is no rebutal to 
this evidence of the management which is supported by documents Aled by the 
Union itself. In reply to the letter of the Union , the management in its letter 
dated 27th February , 1964 had clearly asserted that the depillaring area where 
C . P . Miners were employed had no work left. They were offered to work as 
pick miners and only some of them worked for about a week . Their outturn 
was also very poor . It is , therefore , not a new case which the management lias 
taken up but the stand had been consistent from the very beginning . There was, 
therefore, sufficient justification for retrenching rather terminating the services 
of the workmen . 

7 . Issues No . 3 and 4 . - - The management complled a statement and Aled the 
same as Ex . E / 2 showing the number of days for each worker . Very few of 
them serial Nos . 1 to 11 were engaged in 1961 and none of them had not rendered 
more than 47 days service during the year. In 1962, Serial No . 1 io 27, are 
shown and everyone of them had rendered one year s continuous service . So 
is the case in 1963. As defined under Section 25 ( b ) , for continuous service should 


Src.. ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1908 /VAISAKHA 11, 1890 


2123 


be uninterrupted and under Clause 2 could be treated as in continuous service 
if he had actually worked during a period of 12 calendar months preceding the 
date with reference to which the calculation is to be made, for 190 days in the 
case of workmen employed below ground in a mine. There is no evidence that 
this had been done by any workman . As a matter of fact, no worker has come 
in Evidence to justify the claim for his eligibility . There is , therefore , no reason 
tú rcjcct the claim of the management that no worker had made himself eligible 
of relrenchment compensation . 

8 . The Union relied on the fact that the management had failed to produce 
statutory registers of attendance in Form B and C . The employers in reply 
stated that those registers were not available having been lost or destroyed in 
a ratd of the Colliery by some miscreants . This was stated on oath by Sri B . P . 
Mondal ( E . W . 1 ) . According to him , some 50 to 60 miscreants raided the office 
and the staff quarters and must of the records were lost or destroyed . A report 
in police was lodged . The statement Ex . E / 2 had been Aled earlier . There is 
no reason to doubt the truth of his testimony on the poirt. The fact that the 
management sent a notice to authorities in Form P ( Ex . E / 5 ) was by way of 
abundant caution and was really not necessary. The issues are therefore held 
accordingly , 

9 . Issue No. 5 . — The employers Aled the Payment Register (Ex . E / 1 ) which 
shows that 40 C .P . Miners accepter full and final settlement of their wages 
including bonus and affixed their thumb marks. There is an endorsement of 
the Labour Inspector that payment to 34 employers out of 40 was made in his 
presence . This endorseinent is dated 2nd February , 1964. There is a secund 
endorsement dated 10th February , 1964 for further payment to 4 workers . It is 
clear that all the workers had been paid their dues which they accepted in full 
and final payment. When the workers themselves have no grievance and rione 
of them has come in evidence it is dimicult to comprehend how the Union can 
contend that there is still an industrial dispute subsisting . As a matter of fact , 
there is no disputo left . 

10 . Issue No. 6 .-— There is absolutely no motive of victimisation and the plea 
is clearly untenable. 
Decision : 

The result is that the reference in question is answered in affirmative. Serials 
41, 42 and 43 S / Shri Manickchand Dusadh Miner , Ramdeo Mahato Miner and 
Biroo Kumar Prop . Mazdoor , were not in employment on 30th January , 1964 . 
The termination of services of the remaining 40 was justified and none of them 
wae cntitled to retrenchment compersation . No order for costs . 

(Sd. ) G . C . AGARWALA, 

Presiding Oficer . 

1 - 4 - 1963. 
{ No. 2 / 48 /64- LRII. ] 


S . O . 1578 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Messrs . Shaw Wallace and Company Limited , Post Office Parasia 
( Chhindwara ) and their workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
mert on the 16th April, 1968 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

Dated March , 30 , 1968 
PRESENT; 
Sri G . C . Agarwala - Presiding Officer . 

( 1) CASE REF. No . CGIT /LC ( 120 ) / 67 

( 2 ) CASE REF . No. CGIT /LC (127 ), 67 
PAITIES : 
Employers in relation to M / s. Shaw Wallace & Company Limited , Parasia , 

District Chhindwara ( M . P . ) , 


Vs. 


Their workmen , represented through the General Secretary, MP Rustriya 

Koyala Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , P . O . Parasia , District Chhindwara . 
M . P 


2124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISIKLIA 14, 18:00 


(Ptit II 


. APPEARANCES ; 
For Employers - - S / Sri Sardar Ujagar Singh and V . M . Thakurany, Labour 

Omcer and Chiet Personnel Oncer of the concern . 
For Workmen - S / Sri K . B . Chougule , Secretary Indian National Mines 

Workers Federation and V . N . Dutta , General Secretary , M . P . R . 

Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh , 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine 

DISTRICT : Chhindwara (M .P .). 

AWARD 
These are two relerences between the same parties . The employers are the 
inanagement of M / s . Shaw Wallace Co . Ltd . Parasia , District Chhindwara The 
workmen are represented by M . P . Rashtriya Koyla Khadan Mazdoor Sangh which 
sponsored the disputes . The workinen concerned are Sri Yunus Khan in case 
No. 120 / 67 and Srl Yusuf in case No. 127 of 1967. Both were alleged to have 
been Chowkidars. In case No . 120 / 87 which was referred to this Tribunal by 
Notification No. 5 / 9 , 67-LRII , dated 2nd August , 1967 the allegation of the Union 
was that his services had been terminated withou : any reason with elect from 
20th June , 1966 . The reference is in following terms : 

Matter of Dispute in Case No . 120 /67 
Whether the management of Messrs Shaw Wallace & Company Lirnited , 

Parrsia , District Chhindwara , Madhya Pradesh , was justified in 
stopping Shri Yunus Khan , Chowkldar Parasia Head Office, from 
service with effect from the 20th June, 1966 ? If not , to what relief 
is the workman entitled ? 


In cose No. 127 / 67 which was referred to this Tribunal by Notification No . 5 / 18 / 676 
LRII , dated 8th September 1967 the terms of reference is in two parties and is 
as follows:- -- 

Matter of Dispute in Case No. 127 /67 
Whether the management of Messrs Shaw Wallace and Company Limited 

Parasia , District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh ) were justified in 
refusing to pay nages in accordance with the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal of India on Appeals against the award of the 
All - India Industrial Tribunal (Colliery Disputes ) to Shri Yusuf from 
the 10th March , 1966 and subsequently stopping him from work with 
ellect from 26th September , 1966 ? It not to what reliet is the work 
man entitled ? 


2 . After pleadings were filed and certain issues had been framed in cach case 
· which need not be reproduced , before commencement of the hearing on the joint 

request of the parties the tivo cases mentioned above were consolidated as com 
mon questions of law and fact were involved in regard to the question of allegeci 
termination Case No . 120 / 67 was made leading and in which evidence both 
oral and documentary , was received so as to govern both the cases . It may be 
mentioned that at the argument stage , the Union representative, Shri K . B . 
Chougule intimated that for purposes of these cases he would concede the position 
taken up by the employers that both the workers Sri Yunus Khan and Sri Yusuf 
were bungalow servants and not chowkidars . Even so , his contention was that 
they remained " workmen " under Section 2 ( s ) of I. D . Act and their services could 
not have been terminated by the employers without justification . He further 
Intimated that the reference in case No. 127 / 67 regarding Sri Yusuf the first 
part which relates to wages in accordance with the L . A . T . Award may not be 

determined . This is because the employers had taken up a stand that similar 
· question with regard to other workmen is already sub - judice before the Hon ble 
High Court of Madhya Pradesh in M . P . case No. 485 /67. He only desired the second 
part of the issue under reference to be determined with regard to termination of 
cmployment with effect from 26th September , 1966. 


3 . Taking up case No. 120 / 67. the reference on the face of it is untenable . 
It is cominon case of the parties that Sri Yunus Khan was in employment till 
20th September , 1966. Consequently, he was in service on 20th June, 1966 and 
there was no termination or stoppage from work on or from the state . That 
being so , the reference cannot be determined effectively as bound by thc terms 
of reference it has to be held necessarily that there was no stoppage from work 
with effect from 20th June, 1960. This reference is decided accordingly . 


Src . 8 (ii) | THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1990 2125 

= = = = = = 
4 . As for Reference No. 127 / 67 , the first part of the issue regarding wages in 
accordance with the L . A . T . Award as desired by the Union has to be left un 
determined on account of the pendency of the question with regard to other similar 
employees before the Hon ble High Court of Madhya Pradesh . The sole question 
to be determined is whether he was stopped from working with effect from 
26th September , 1966 . Wilnot going into the question whether as a bungalow 
servant attached to the officers of bungalows he was or was not a workman under 
Section 2 ( s ) , it appears that the dispute raised by the Union for stoppage from 
work with effect from 26th September , 1966 s rather mişconceived . He had not 
been stopped from work at all from that date . On the other hand , it appears 
that he was suffering from P - 2 type Leprosy and was first treated at Barkuhi 
Hospital, The report of the Medical Officer , dated 7th October , 1966 shows that 
he was prescribed certain medicines and was advised to report after one month . 
It appears that the Union on an earlier coniplain ! of Sri Yusuf approached the 
management and the management by letter , dated 29th September , 1966 (Ex. 2 / 2 ) 
sent $ ri Yusuf to Saucer Hospital for treatment. He was paid an advance of 
Rs. 50 also as would appear from Ex . E / 1 . Sri Yusuf in his evidence admitted 
that he was sent to Saucer Hospital for treatment and got an advance . He further 
admitted that after he was declared At at the Hospital on the report of the 
Doctor to be given work of Chowkidar on 18h March , 1967, he was given employ . 
ment and worked as a Chowkidar. From the evidence of Sri Ganeshi Lal Chaurasia 
( E . W . 1 ) Head Accounts Clerk of the employers as also by two other witresses 
S / Sri Jamaluddin ( E . W . 2 ) and Moti Lal ( E . W . 3 ) who were also bungalow 
servants , it appears that Yusuf worked with one Mr. Slater till November , 1966 
and then was sent to Hospital for treatment. Thus from the evidence on record 
and the admissions made by Srl Yusuf himself, it is manifest that he was not 
stopped from work with effect from 26th September , 1966 but was sent for treat 
ment and on return he was deputed to work for sometime as Chowkidar. There 
was, therefore , no stoppage from work with cllcct froin 26th September, 1966 . 
The reference is answered accordingly . 
No order for costs. 

(Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA . 

Presiding Officer. 

30 - 3 - 1968 
No. 5 / 18 / 67 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
S . O . 1579 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad , in the industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Singareni Collieries Company Limited . Post Once . 
Kothagudium Collieries (Andhra Pradesh ) and their workmen , which was receivedi 
by the Central Government on the 15th April , 1968 . 
BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( C ), ANDHRA PRADESII, HYDERABAD 
PRESENT : 
Sri Mohammad Najmuddin , M . A ., B . Ix , Chairman , Industrial Tribunal ( C ) , 
Andhra Pradesh , Hyderabad . 
INDUSTRIAL DIAPUTU NO 22 OF 1987 

BETWEEN 
Workmen of Singareni Collleries Co . Ltd ., P . O . Kothagudem Colleries . 

AND 
Employers of Sigareni Collieries Co. Ltd ., P .O . Kothagudem Collleries 
APPEARANCES 

Shri A . Laxman Rao, Advocate for the Workmen , 
Shri K . Srinivasamurthy and Shri M . V . Ramakrishna Rao , representatives 
of the Employers . 

AWARD 


The Government of India in its Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rchabili 
tation (Department of Labour and Employment) had , by Order No. 7 / 19 / 66 - LRII, 


- 


- 


- 


2126 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKHA 11, 1891) ( PART II 
- = = - - = - = . . . 

S 
dated 6th September 1967. referred this dispute to me for adjudication . The igsuc 
as per schedule annexed to the notification is this : 
Whether, having regard to what is contained in paragraphs 340 to 346 of 

the Labour Appellate Tribunal s decision , the workmen of the Service 
and Protection Corps, Singareni Collierles Co. Ltd . , Kothagudem , 
were entititd to three musters for work done on the 15th August , 1965 , 
which is a paid holiday ? If so , to what relief are the workmen 

entitled ? 
2 . The Statement of claims was filed by and under the signature of Mr. S . 
Ramireddy. General Secretary of the Andhra Pradesh Colliery Mazdoor Sangh 
which is party to the reference. The class of workers who are referred to in 
the issue are monthly -raters. Fifteenth August , the Independence Day, is among 
the 7 paid festival holidays in the Company. In the instant case it so happened 
thgt 15th August, 1965 was also a Sunday . Sunday is a weekly off day for the 
particular Department in the reference, viz ., the Service and Protection Corps . 
According to section 29 of the Indian Mines Act , if a worker is made to work 
or a weekly off day , he should be given a compensatory of day . It is common 
ground that the worker who worked on such a off day is given 1 } musters as: 
per practice prevalent in the Collierles . The 1 ) musters is split up this way. 
One muster is for the day s work , and half muster being for the worker being 
made to work on a rest day . Thus a worker who work on a rest day gets not. 
only a compensatory day off but also 11 musters as above said . In the instant 
case the Independence Day fell on a Sunday , it being 15th August , 1965 . Some 
workmen of the Service and Protection Corps were called upon to work on that 
clay, and they had go worked . The Management had given them a compensatory 
day off and as also 2 musters , i.e ., one muster for actually working that day and 
One muster extra . 

3. Now the concerned workers claim that they should have been given 3 
musters instead of 2 as actually given by the Management, the basis of the claim 
being the day in question was a paid holiday, viz ., the Independence Day. They 
place reliance upon paragraphs 340 to 346 of the decision of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal, dated 291h January , 1957. That decision of the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal was in respect of a paid holiday on which day certain workers were 
called upon to work . The decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal was that a 
worker who is called upon to work on a paid holiday should be paid 3 musters , 
2.e ., 2 musters extra. It is common ground before me that the Labour Appellate 
Tribunal was not deciding a case fr: which a paid holiday on which it workman 
was called upon to work was also a Surday on any other of day . Mr. A . Laxmapa 
rao for the Union contends that the claimants aro entitled to take advantage of 
the fact that the paid holiday in question was also a Sunday in this case . On 
the other hand the case of the Managernent is that the accident of the paid 
holiday falling on Sunday carinot ba taken advantage of by the clalınants to 
avall of a double advantage. Mr. 5 . Sririvasamurthy for the Management pointed 
out that only one day has to be reckoned and not two days, that is , either the 
Sunday or the paid holiday . 

4 . The problem in the case on hand arises because the paid holiday, viz ., 
15th August, 1965, was also a Sunday . If , as contended by Mr. Laxmanarao , 
the claimants can take advantage of the day in question being both a festival 
holiday and a Sunday, theri it amounts to putting forward the claim that the 
claimants are entitled to 1 nusters plus a compensatory day off plus three 
musters . But obviously such a claim is not admissible . What the claimants 
want is that they should be given three musters for the day in question instead 
of 2 which the Management had actually given besides the compensatory day off . 
As I said hetore . tho claimants in the case are workmen of the Service and 
Protection Corps and they are morthly - raters . They draw their emoluments by 
the month . It is only to the daily - raters that the question of paying wage arises 
in respect of a paid holiday. If a paid holiday happens to fall on a Sunday or 
on any other day oil . It is the practice in the Collierles to pay that day s muster 
to the daily - rater. That woull not apply to the monthly - rater because he gets 
his emoluments by the month . So far as he is concerned , it would not make 
any difference to him if a paid holiday fell on a Sunday or on another off -day . 
He cannot claim a condensatory hcliday for a holidav that fell on a Sunday or 
on any other day - oll . To him it is only one day whether one calls it a Sunday 
Or a festival holiday . It would therefore follow that when he is called upon to 
work on such a day, i.e . , one on which a festival holiday fell on a Sunday, it is 
only one day that has to be reckoned and not two days . What we have got in 
the instant case is a Sunday . Under Section 39 of the Indian Mines Act granting 
cf a weekly day oil , whether it is a Sunday or any other day, is obligatory . 


Svc. $ Eli) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY +, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2127 


Failure to comply with that statutory direction would invite prosecution of the 
cmployer . Since what we llave here is a Sunday besides being a festival holiday , 
the Management had giver a compensatory day off to the claimants who are 
among the Service and Protection Corps and who were called upon to work on 
that day . But instead of giving only 1 musters , the Management gave to them 
two musters , viz ., one muster extra . although if one was to treat that day as 
Sunday alone the claimants would be entitled to only 1 } musters, i . e . muster 
cxtra . In this way the Management had adjusted the fact that the festival 
holiday in question was also a Sunday . When , as I said , only one day tras 10 
be reckoned . then the clainants cannot have the advantage of a compensatory 
cay - off which had admittedly been given to them as well as claim 2 extra musters. 


5 . The claimants Aled 2 documents , Exs. Wi and W2 and the Management filed 
one document, Ex . M1. They Aled a joint memo that there is no oral evidence. 
Referring to the fact that workers of the Service and Protection Corps had 
worked on 25th August. 1965 , they made the following representation to their 
Commandant by Ex . W1 : 
The Management, insteal of glving 3 musters for that day as per the 

existing practice of the Company, has only given 2 musters which 
is not justlied . We therefore request you to kindly look into the 
matter and arrange to allow us the remaining 14 musters for which 

we shall remain thankful. 
By his letter Ex . W2, ciated 14th October 1965 the Commandant replied as below :- - 
With reference to the pbove you are hereby informed that the difference of 

wages due to work done on 15th August, 1965 as per Rules of the 

Company is being arranged for payment. 
It may be noticed that in Ex . W1 the claimants do not mention the fact that 
the Management had given a compensatory day -off to those workers of the 
Service and Protection Corps who had worked on 15th August , 1965 . Had that 
fact been stated in Ex W1, the reply of the Commandant as per Ex . W2 might 
nave been different. In any case, the Commandant was not the authority to 
determine and decide upon the question raised by the claimants in Ex. WI. It 
will be noticed that although the claim as made in Ex . W1 is for 3 ) musters , 
the claim in this dispute before me is for 3 musters relying upon paragraph 340 
to 346 of the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal. When thus it is seen 
that the claimants themselves had stepped down from what was put forward in 
Ex . WI to what is now claimed in this dispute , it is clear that they have realised 
that they could not claim a double advantage. As I said before, the case decided 
uy the Labour Appellate Tribunal was not an Instance of a paid festival holiday 
falling on a Sunday or on any other day off . But a different consideration would 
arise when such a holiday fell on a Sunday or on any other day - off. Ex . Mi, 
dated 22nd May , 1961 is a circular from the General Manager which , among others , 
lays down that only one extra muster would be given to those who are allowed 
a day of rest in lieu of hoiday work " . Ex W2 which is dated 14th October , 1965 
is very much subsequent tr; Ex . Mi which is dated 22nd May , 1961. When in 
Ex W2 the Commandant referred to the " rules of the Company " , it can only 
he the rule which was extant. Ano , moreover , it was not brought to his notice 
that the concerned workers had been given a compensatory day - off . 

7 . The decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal, viz ., that 3 musters should 
be given to a worker who is made to work on a paid festival day, would apply 
to a case of a paid festival holiday not falling on a Sunday or on any other 
oft -day . Therefore the claimants cannot rely upon the decision of the Labour 
Appellate Tribunal for claiming three musters because 15th August , 1965 was 
also a Sunday . The Management had given 2 musters and in lieu of a possible 
third muster for working on a festival holiday it had given a compensatory day 
off. That compensatory day - off would equate the third muster. I am satisfled 
that the Management had properly adjusted the twin fact that 15th August, 1965 
was a Sunday besides being a National Holiday . That being so, the claimants 
canriot claim any further relleſ over and above what had been given by the 
Management . That is my finding under the issue in the reference. 

Award passed accordingly . 

Given under my hand and the seal of the Tribunal, this the 8th day of April, 
1868. 

(Sd.) M , NAJMUDDIN , 

Industrial Tribunal. 


2128 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


(PART II -- 


APPENDIX OF EVIDENCE 

Witnesses examined for : 
Workmen : 

Employers : 
NA 

NII 
Documents marked for Workmen 
Ex, W1: Representation under Grievance Procedure submitted by 118 work 

men of Service and Protection Corps of the Company 
Ex . W2: Letter dated 14th October, 1965 from the Commandant Service and 

Protection Corps in reply to Ex W1. 

Documents marked for Employers 
Ex. M1 : Circular No. P . 14 / 35 / 4076 issued by the Singareni Collſeries Co . 
Ltd ., on the subject of musters for paid holiday work . 

( Sd .) M . NAJMUDDIN , 
Industrial Tribunal. 

[No. 7 ( 19 ) / 66 - LRII. ] 
New Delhi, the 24th April 1968 
S . O . 1580 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Hyderabad , in the matter of an application under Section 
33 - A of the said Act from Shri Chinachari and 51 other workmen of the 
Singareni Collieries Company Limited (Post Office Kothagudium Collleries, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 15th April, 1988 . 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (C ), ANDHRA PRADESH , HYDERABAD 
PRESENT : 
Sri Mohammad Najmuddin , M . A ., B . L ., Chairman , Industrial Tribunal, Andhra 
Pradesh , Hyderabad , 
Miscellaneous Petition No. 71 of 1968 

IN 
Industrial Dispute No. 30 of 1967 

BETWEEN 
Chinnachari and 51 other workinen of Singareni Collleries Co. Ltd ., P . O . 

Kothagudium Collieries. 


AND 
The General Manager , Singareni Collieries Co . Ltd ., P . O . Kothagudium 

Collieries . 
APPEARANCES : 

Sri Dass , President, Andhra Pradesh Koila Kamgar Union , for the workmen . 
Sri K . Srinivasamurthy for the Management. 

AWARD 


This application is under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act. It is Aled 
by Chinachari and others . They are employees of the respondent- Company in 
its Service & Protection Corps. It has been the practice in the Collleries to give 
half muster extra for work on a play day or a holiday to the workers in the 
Service & Protection Corps. That was so till the month of December 1967 . On 
the 15th of that month the Management issued Circular that the question of play 
day allowance was under review on consultation with the Indian Mining Associa 
tion . That being so , the circular advised the concerned departments not to book 
play day allowance for work done on play days till further clarification was com 
municated . I. D . No. 30 /67 is pending here . The parties to that dispute are the 
Management of the Collierles on the one side and its employees on the other . The 
Issue in it relates to the question of revised wage structure . The applicants are 
thug concerned with the dispute . The complaint of the applicants is that the 
circular in question and the consequential suspension of payment of play day 
allowance was in violation of the provisions of Section 33 . Sub - section ( 1 ) ( a ) of 
section 33 enacts that the employer shall not alter to the prejudice of the work 
men conditions of service applicable to them during the pendency of a dispute 


Sec. 3 (ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKTIA 14 , 1890 


2129 


before a Tribunal. The stoppage, for that is what it amounts to for the time being 
of booking of play day allowance as per Circular dated 15th December 1987 
amounted to alteration in conditions of service , that condition of service having 
obtained for a considerable perlod heretobeťore . It is prayed in the application 
that the Management be directed to pay to the applicants their play day allowance 
The counter of the Management is that there was no stoppage as such of payment 
of play day allowance but that it was only a suspension of the same for a temporary 
period because of the negotlations being carried on with the registered trade 
unions. 

2. Had the matter stood there I might have taken the view that the Manage 
ment should not have suspended the payment of play day allowance during the 
course of any negotiations with the Unions, and I would have directed iinmediate 
continuation of the condition of service. But there has since been a settlement in 
respect of the subject of this application . That Memorandum of Settlement dated 
14th March , 1968 is under sub - section 3 of Sec. 12 of the I, D . Act. The parties to 
it are the representatives of the Management, liz ., Mr. Vasudevan , the Deputy 
General Manager and Mr. Bhaskarachari. the Chief Personnel Officer , and four 
Unions. They are the Singareni Collieries Workers Union , Singareni 
Collieries Mazdoor Sangh , Tandur Coal Mines Labour Union and 
the Andhra Pradesh Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . Two office bearers of 
each of these four unions have subscribed to that Memorandum of 
Settlement. All the four unions are registered unions, and two of them are re 
cognised unions, viz ., the Singareni Collierles Workers Union at Kothagudium and 
the Tandur Coal Mines Labour Union at Ballampalli. The representative of the 
applicants , Mr. Dass , is present. He states that he is the President of a union 
called the Andhra Pradesh Koila Kamgar Union , that this Union had been formed 
in the month of November 1967 and that it is yet to be registered. Although he 
says that an application in that behalf had been made to the appropriate authority , 
Mr. Dass would say that the 52 applicants are members of his newly formed Union 
and that any of them does not belong to any of the four unions that are party to 
the Memorandum of Settlement dated 14th March 1968. There is no indication in 
the application that any of the applicants had cut loose from any of the registered 
unions and that they had formed a separate union whether it is Koila Kamgar 
Union or any other union , 

3 . In vieu " of the fact that four registered unions are party to the Memorandum 
of Settlement dated 14th March 1968 which , as I said , is under sub - section 3 of 
Section 12 of the I. D . Act, I am unable to accept the stand taken by Mr. Dass pur 
portedly on behalf of the Koila Kamgar Union which is yet to be registered . 
The Memorandum of Settlement under mention is a comprehensive document, and 
it deals with not only the members of the Service & Protection Corps but also with 
employees in several other departments . It specifes the amount of play day 
allowance to be paid to the workers in various categories . It applies to not only 
the dally -raters but also to the monthly -raters . The members of the Service & 
Protection Corps are among the monthly -rated stall . That being so , the applicants 
also would get the benefit of the Memorandum of Settlement. The payments to be 
made are with retrospective effect from 15th August 1967. It would therefore 
follow that the applicants would also get the benefit of that retrospective effect . 
and the period of suspension of payment of play day allowance would cease to 
exist and for that period also there would be payment of play day allowance . The 
hesis of the complaint is thus taken away, although şubsequent to the application . 
The claimants may , if necessary , move the Labour Court for payment under Sec. 
33 ( e ). So far as this matter before me is concerned , there is no relief to be granted . 

AWARD passed accordingly . 

Glven under my hand and the scal of the Tribunal, this the 6th day of April 
1908 . 

( Sd .) M . NAJMUDDIN , 
Industrial Tribunal. 
[No. 7 / 21 /67-LRII, J 


- 


- 


- 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
S . O . 1581 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Ballarpur 
Colliery of Messrs . Ballarpur Collieries Company Limited , Post Office Ballarpur 


- 


2720 TUL GAZETTE OF INDI ; MSY 1. 1963 / VAISAKHA 11 , 1890 [PART II 
= . 

: . : . . . 

- ..- . - . . . 
District Chanda (Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen in respect of the niatters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed : 

And , whereas the Central Government considers il desirable to refer the said 
clispute for adjudication ; 

Now . therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub -section 
( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrlal 
Tribunal, Jabalpur. constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
Whether Sri Laxman Bikru . Sand Packing Fitter in Ballarpur Colliery. 

Ballarpur resigned from his job voluntarily or whether his resignation 
was obtained fraudulently by the management ? In the latter case to 
what reliel is he entitled ? 

[No. 3 / 5 / 68 -LRII. ] 
New Delhi , the 24th April 1988 
S .O . 1582. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Şijua Colliery of Messrs 
Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad and 
their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annex 
ed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercisc of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Sijua Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron 
and Steel Company Limited, Post Ofhce Jealgora , District Dhanbad in dismissing 
Shri Saran Singh , Watchman from service with effect from the 16th October, 1967, 
was justified ? If not , to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2 /37/ 68 - LR . II.) 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 22nd April 1968 
S . O . 1583, — In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) . the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to ( 1 ) Madras Homeward Freight Conference , Madras; ( 2 ) Messrs Best 
and Conipany Private Limited , Madras ; ( 3 ) Messrs Binny and Company Limited 
Madras ; ( 4 ) Messrs Gordon Woodroffe and Company , Madras; ( 5 ) Messrs 
Annantha Krishna and Company, Madras , and their workman , which was 
received by the Central Government on 17th April, 1963. 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADRAS 
Saturday the 30th day of March 1968 

PRESENT ; 
Thiru M . Tajammul Hussain , B . A ., B . L ., Industrial Tribunal, Madras 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No . 18 OF 1987 
( In the matter of the dispute between the workmen and the management of 

M / s . Best and Company Private Limited , 13 / 15 , North Beach Road , Madras- 1 
and other five managements ) . 

BETWEEN 
1. Madras Homeward Freight Conference: Madras. 
2 . M / s . Best and Company Private Ltd ., Madras. 


SEC. 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKHA 11, 1890 


2131 


3. M / s. Biury and Compans Limited , Madras. 
4 . M / s. Gordon Woodrolle and Company, Madras . 
5. M / s. Annantha Krishna and Company , Madruş. 

AND 
The General Secretary , Madras Port and Dock Workers Congress , 11 , Phillips S : , 

Madras - l. 

REFERENCE : 
Order dated 16th February , 1967 , 28 ( 142 ) / 60 -LRIV ,, Ministry of Labour and Em 
ployment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment ) Goveril 

ment of India , New Delhi, 
This dispute coming on for final hearing on Wednesday the 21st and 22nd 
day of February, 1908 upon perusing the reference , claim and counter statements 
and all other material papers on record and hearing the arguments of M / s . B . R . 
Dolla and G . Venkatrainin , Advocate for the Union and Thiru M . R . Narayana 
swami. Advocate for the management Nos. 2 , 4 and 5 and Thiru B . T . Sampath . 
Senior Labour Officer, authorised representative of the 3rd management and this 
dispute having stood over till this day for consideration , this Tribunal made the 
following : 

AWARD 
This is a reference by the Central Government of an industrial dispute between 
the employers uſ 1 . Madras Homeward Freight Conference , Madras; 2 . Messrs . 
Best and Company Private Limited , Madras ; 3 . Messrs Binny and Company 
Limited , Madras; 4 . Messrs Gorden Woodroffe and Company , Madras; and 
5 . Messrs Anartha Krishna and Conipany, Madras and their workmen in respect 
of the matter specified in the schedule to the reference . The schedule is as 
follows : 
" Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Port 

and Dock Workers at Major Ports , are the workmen employed by the 
Madras Homewarii Freight Conference and their member employers 
in their measuring depurtment Madras Port , entitled for any increase 
in their remuneration in the form of dearness allowance and interim 
relief ? If so , what should be the quantum of such increase aric from 
what date ? 


2 . The Madras Port and Dock Workers Congress filed a claim statement. The 
Inaterial allegations in tne claim statement are these : The Government of India . 
constituted a tripartite Centra ! Wage Board for Port and Dock Workers employed 
in the major ports. The Board was required under its terms of reference to fix 
fair wages to the employees employed in the major ports and docks in the country , 
The interim recommendation of the Board was made on 9th April, 1965. As per 
this recommendation , iſ the workers received after 31st January , 1964 any ir.creasc 
in the dearness allowance not less than the increase recommended by the Wage 
Board , no further increase in dearmass allowance would be payable to such em 
ployees. If it is otherwise the increase in dearness allowance should be paia 
from 1st October . 1964 at the rate equal to the difference between rate of increase 
recommended by the Wage Board . In addition to the increased dearness allow 
ance , the Board unanimously recommended payment of an interim reliet at 
Rs. 7 .80 P . per month or Rs. 0 . 30 P . per day to all categories of employees with 
effect from 1st February , 1905 . The interim palief was recommended to be 
created neither as part of the basic wages nor as Part C dearness allowance till 
the final recommendations of the Board are made available . The Control Wage 
Board gave a second interim increase at the rate of Rs. 4 per month or Rs. 0 . 15 P . 
per day for all, whether they are daily rated or monthly paid . The Board algo 
recommended that the employees should be paid dearness allowance in future 
also as and when the Central Government grants dearness allowance to its emn 
ployees . The Union prays that the management should be directed to pay the 
dearness allowance at the increased rates from the dates on which they fell duc 
to be implemented and also the two interim increases given by the Wage Board 
from the dates from which they were due to the workmen together with costs of 
these proceedings. 


The General Secretary , Port and Dock Workers Congress has made an endorse 
ment to the effect that only the Homeward Freight Conference has to make the 
payment and the parties 2 to 5 may be relieved and they need not be coken as 
parties to the dispute ." , 


2132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 1, 1968 /VAISAKIIA 14, 1890 


(PART II 


. . - 


- 


4. The contentions of the 1st respondent are these — 
The persons employed by the Ist respondent are engaged in the task of 

measuring cargo for shipment for calculation of freight payable for 
the cargo . The statement that persons employed by the 1st respondent 
fall within the definition of the term " dock worker " under the Dock 
Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act of 1948 is denied . The 
recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Dock Workers are 
in no way applicable to the employees. The Wage Board evolved a 
fifty category termed ( e ) in its recommendations which is referred to 

in Appendix to Annexure I of the Claim statement. 
... The claim of the workmon concerned in this reference is sought to be brought 
in only under that category . Under clause ( E ) of its recommendations, item No. 
5 originally read as " employees who come within the definition of Dock Worker 
under the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Act , 1948" . This has been 
modified later on by substituting the clause namely , " persons mainly employed 
in a dock as defined in paragraph 2 ( 3 ) of the Dock Workers ( Safety Health and 
Welfare ) Scheme, 1961" made by the Central Government in exercise of powers 
conterrect by Section 4 ( 1 ) O Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Act , 
1948. 

6 . None of the persons employed by the 1st respondent would fall within the 
definition of either a dock worker or a person working in a dock as defined in 
the Dock Workers ( Safety , Health and Welfare ) Scheme, 1961. The Wage Board 
itself had no jurisdiction to fix a wage structure for categories of employees 
other than those governed by the order of reference . In any event, the recom 
mendations being purely of an interim nature, cannot form the subject matter 
of a reference before the Industrial Tribunal as measures of Interim relief cannot 
be said to fall under the head " conditions of service" so as to attract the appli 
cability of the Industrial Disputes Act. The claim made in the claim statement 
is wholly untenable . 

7 . The issue that riscs for consideration in this dispute is " are the workmen 
employed by the Madras Homeward Freight Conference and their member em 
ployers in their measuring department at the Madras Port, entitled for any increase 
in their remuneration in the form of dearness allowance and interim relief ? , and 
if so , what should be the quartum of such increase and from what date ? " 

8 . The claim against respondents 2 to 5 is not pressed and does not arise for 
consideration . 

9 . The claim against the Madras Homeward Freight Conference is that it should 
be directed to pay the dearness allowance at increased rates from the dates from 
which they were due to the workmen together with costs in these proceedings . 


10 . The main work oť the Madras Homeward Freight Conference consists of 
measuring cargo for shipment, for calculation of freight payable for the cargo . 
The Conference denies the allegatior that the persons employed by the 1st res 
pondent fall within the definition of the term " dock worker" under the Dock 
Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948 . According to the Union , the 
workmen in dispute are coming within the definition of the term " Dock Worker" 
under the Dock Workers ( Safety , Health and Welfare ) Scheme, 1961. The 
management was not justified in refusing to implement the recommendations of 
the Wage Board and the notified increases in the dearness allowance . 


11. The case of the Madras Homeward Freight Conference is as follows: 
“ The recommendations of the Central Wage Board for Dock Workers are 

in no way applicable to the employees of the 1st respondent. The 
relevant clause in the terms of the reference to the Board was contained 
in paragraph 3 ot the resolution , which is as follows : 
" ( a ) to determine the categories of employees manual, clerical , super 

visors, etc ) who should be brought within the proposed wage 
fixatior : 
NOTE : The term " employees " will exclude Class I and II Officers and 

cover the following : 
(1) persons employed by the Major Port authorities; 
(ii ) Dock Workers as defined under the Dock Workers (Regulation 

of Employment) Act , 1948 ; 


SEC 


(11)) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


2133 


( iii ) Employees engaged by Dock Labour Boards and their adminis 

trative bodles ; and 
(iv ) Employees engaged by the listed employers" , 
12 . Instead of confining Itseil to the terms of reference to work out the wage 
structure for the categories of employees mentioned above , the Wage Board 
evolved a Afth category termed ( E ) in its recommendations which is referred to 
in appendix to Annexure I of the claim statement. It is contended that the Wage 
Board had exceeded its jurisdiction in creating a 5th category of employees . Under 
clause ( E ) of its recommendations, item 5 originally read as " employees who 
come within the definition of Dock Worker under the Dock Workers (Regulation 
of Employment) Act, 1948 " . This has been modified later by substitution of the 
following clause , namely , " persons mainly employed in a dock as defined in 
paragraph 2 ( 3 ) of the Dock Workers ( Safety , Health and Walfare ) Scheme, 1961" 
made by the Central Government in exercise of powers conferred by Section 4 ( i) 
of Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment ) Act, 1948 . None of the persons 
employed by the respondent would fall within the definition of either a dock 
worker or a person working in a dock as defined in the Dock Workers (Safety , 
Health and Welfare) Scheme, 1961. 

13. To the claim statement, 5 annexure are attached . The correctness of these 
annexures is not challenged . From Annexure I, it appears that the Government 
have decided to accept the reccmmendations of the Wage Board and to request 
thi . concerned employers to implement the same as early as possible . The Appen 
dix to that Annexure mentions the categories of employees connected with Port 
and Dock Workers in major ports , to whom the recommendations should be applied . 
Para I A relates to employees of major port authorities , Para I B relates to Dock 
Workers as defined under Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act, 1948. 
The 5th category under B of Appendix to Annexure I relates to workmen who 
are covered by the scheme, or not. Clause I, B ( 5 ) is as follows : " Similar cate 
gories of cmployees as in items 1 and 2 At all major ports , whether they are 
covered by the schenies or not . This clause is comprehensive enough to include 
the employees under this management also , 

14 . Annexure II of the claim statement relates to the copy of the resolution 
dated 19th October , 1966 of the Department of Labour and Employment, Ministry 
of Labour, Epmlyoment and Rehabilitation , Government of India . The relevant 
portion is this : 

" The Board had on 9th April, 1965 , recommended the grant of an interim 

relief with effect from 1st February 1965 . The Board s recommendations 
were accepted by the Government, by its Resolution No . WB - 21 ( 13 ) / 65 , 
dated 27th April, 1965 . 2 . For some time past, the workers have been 
asking for a second interim relief. The Board , after having carefully 
considered the representations and vlews of parties and all relevant 

facts , recommends as under : 
A further (second ) interim relief of Rs. 4 per month should be paid from 

1st August, 1966 to all categorles of workers described in Clause of the 
Board s earlier recommendations above referred to , on the same terms 

and conditions as mentioned therein .! 
15 . Appendices III , IV and V of the claim statement relate to the revised 
rates of dearness allowance , applicable to the Central Government services . 
Appendix III relates to the dearness allowance applicable also to those Govern 
ment servants , with effect from 1st March , 1965 . Annexure IV gives the revised 
rates of D - A . for governmental servants , with effect from 1st December , 1965 . 
Again Annexure V gives the revised rates effective from 1st August 1966 . 

16 . Sub - clause (5 ) of clause ( E ) in para I of the Appendix to Government 
Resolution No . WB - 21 ( 15 ) / 65, dated 27th April, 1965 was modified on certain 
reprečertations made to the Waze Board . The Wage Board has recommended that 
the following may be substituted in place of sub - clause ( 5 ) of clause ( E ) in 
para I of the Appendix to the aforesaid resolution : 
" Persons mainly empioyed in a Dock as defined in para 2 ( 3 ) of the Dock 

Workers ( Safety , Health and Welfare ) Scheme, 1961 made by the 
Central Government in exercise of powers conferred by section 
4 ( 1) of Dock Workers ( Resolution of Employment) Act, 1948 ." 


17 . According to the 1st respondent, there are no employees, who come within 
thic term Dock Worker under sub - clause (5 ) of clause ( E ) , under its management, 


2134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 4 , 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


(PART 1 


PH 


18. The issue that arises for consideration is as detailed in the « chedule 16 
the award , which is as follows : 

" Keeping in view the recommendations of the Central Wage Board for 

Port and Dock Workers at Major Ports , are the workmen employed by 
the Madras Homewerd Freight Conference and their member employers 
( Annexure A ) in their Measuring Department, Madras Port, entitled 
for any increase in their remuneration in the form of dearness allow 
ance and interim relief ? If so , what should be the quantum of such 

Increase and from what date ? " 
19 . According to the Union , sub - clause ( 5 ) of Clausę B of Appendix to Annexure 
I will apply and the employees under the present Management are included in 
that class . Clause B of Ex . M . 1 covers employees , who are Dock Workers as 
defined under Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act , 1948. Clause 5 
is as follows - 

" Similar categories of employees as in items 1 and 2 at all major ports , 

whether they are covered by the Schemes or not." 
20 . As contended on behall of the Union , the employees involved in this 
reference come under sub - clause 5 of Clause B of Ex . W . 1 The recommendations 
of the Board would apply to all the categories of workers connected with the 
Major Ports and Dock Workers in Major Ports , as enumerated thereunder . As 
the Wage Board could not arrive at a final conclusion within the period fixed 
for submission of the Board s recommendations to the Government tho Board 
granted an interim relief. According to Clause II , all categories of employees 
mentioned in Clause I , who are getting dearness allowance at the rates applicable 
to Government Employees , should continue to be paid dearness allowance on the 
pattern of the dearness allowance of the Central Government employees . As and 
when the Government revises the dearness allowance rates for its employees, 
those workmen should also be given such allowances till the final recommendations - 
at the Board come into effect. 

21. There is no substance in the contention of the management that the em 
ployees concerned in this reference are not entitled to the benefit of the Wage 
Board recommendations for interim relief. Under Clause III ( A ) , if any categories 
of employees were not paid dearness allowance at Government rates , such cate 
gories of employees should also be paid dearness allowance from 1st October, 
1964 at the rates given thereunder . A second Interim rellet of Rs. 4 per month 
was granted by the Wage Board to all categories of workmen described in Clause I 
of the Board s earlier recommendations. Ex W . 2 refers to that second relief. 
Ex . W . 3 refers to the revised rates of dearness allowance with effect from 1st 
March , 1965, Ex . W . 4 refers to the revised rates of dearness allowance with effect 
from 1st December , 1965 and Ex. W . 5 gives the revised rates of dcarness allowance 
with effect from 1st December, 1965 and 1st August, 1966 . 


22. Another contention of the cor testing respondent is that the recommendations 
of the Board being purely of an interim nature , cannot form the subject matter 
of a reference before the Industrial Tribunal as measures of Interim relief cannot 
be said to fall under the head " conditions of service " so as to attract the appli. 
L ability of the Industrial Disputes Act . 


23 . The main recommendation of the Central Wage Board was for grant of 
interim relief. The Government decided to accept the recommendations of the 
Wage Board and to request the concerned employers to implement the recom 
mendations as early as possible . It would appear from Ex . W . 1 that the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment asked the Board to 
submit its recommendations within 3 months. The Board met for deliberations 
from 12th to 14th March , 1965 . Since the Board could not arrive at final con 
clusion , the Government was requested to extend the period Axed for the sub 
mission of the Board s recommendations of interim relief by one month . The 
Board recommended the grant of dearness allowance to all categories of em 
ployees at the rates specifled for the Central Government employees. As the work 
could not be finalised on 9th April, 1966 , the Wage Board requested for one 
month s time, as stated above . The Board s recommendations were accepted by 
the Government. Interim relief was granted . The workmen covered in this refer 
ence are workers as defined under the Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) 
Act. 1948 . An industrial dispute can be raised asking for implementation of the 
recommendations of the Wago Board and for grant of interim relief in terms 
of the recommendations and the relief asked for can be granted under the pro 
mises of the industrial disputes Act. 


Sec 3 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2135 


. . 


. 


in 


24 . On a consideration of all the circumstances , I hold that the workmen em 
ployed by the Madras Homeward Freight Conference in their Measuring Depart 
ment, Madras Port are entitled to an increase in their remuneration in the forin 
of dearness allowance and interim relief and the Management of the Madras 
Homeward Freight Conference are directed to pay the dearness allowance at the 
increased rates from the dates they fell due and also the two interim increases 
given by the Wage Board from the dates from which they were due to the work 
men , as prayed for in para 13 of their claim statement. The issue is found 
Accordingly . No relief is granted against respondents 2 to 5 . 

25 . An award is passed in terms of the above Anding on the issue. The ist 
respondent is directed to pay Rs. 50 as costs to the Union . 

( Sd.) M . TAJAMMUL HUSSAIN , 

Industrial Tribunal. 


List of Witnesses Examined for both side. 


Nil 


Lis : of Documents marked : 
For the Worker : 
. W . 1 Resolution Government of India Ministry of Labour and Employ . 

ment - 27th April , 1905 . 
. W . 2 Resolution Government of India Ministry of Labour and Employ 

ment - 19th October , 1986 . 
. W . 3 Revised rates of dearness allowance — 26th April 1965 . 

: W . 4 Revised rates of dearness allowance — 7th February, 1966 . 
en W . 5 Revised rates of dearness allowance - 19th October , 1966 , 


For the management : 

NII 
NOTE : - - The parties are directed to take return of their document /documents with 
in six months fron ) this date . 

[No. 28/ 142/ 88-LRIV .] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1584 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Calcutta Port Commis 
sloners , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the demand of the workmen for the inclusion of certain additional 

categories of workers in the Incentive Tonnage Scheme is justified ? 
If so , which additional specific categories should be so included ; on 
what basis of performance should incentive allowance be paid to 
them and what should be the rate of such incentive allowance pay 
ments .* 

[No. 28 ( 108 ) / 67 -LRIII. ) 
C . RAMDAS , Under Secy . 


(Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Office of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
8 . 0 . 1585. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( a ) of Sub - Section 
( 2 ) of Section 18 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) 


2196 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[Part II - 


Act, 1954 (44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints , for the States 
of Punjab and Haryana , Shri Gurdial Singh Gulati, Settlement Officer in the 
office of Regional Settlement Commissioner , Jullundur, as Managing Omrcer for 
the custody, management and disposal of compensation pool. 

[No. F . (4 ) AGZ/ 65 .] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19th April 1968 
S . O . 1686 , — In pursuance of Rule 11 - D ( D ) ( A ) of the Evacuee Interest 
(Separation ) Rules , 1951, the Central Government hereby makes the following 
order to amend the order published with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Ministry of Works . Housing and Rehabilitation ( Department of 
Rehabilitation ) No. S . O . 531 dated 6th February , 1964, namely : - - 
In the said order , 
For the words and figures " 31st March , 1968 ” the words and figures " 30th 
September , 1968 " shall be substituted . 

[No, 5 ( 24 ) / 59 /Prop . II -Comp. & Prop .] 
A . G . VASWANI, Settlement Commissioner & 

Ex - officio Under Secy . 


( Department of Rehabilitation ) 
(Office of the Chlef Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 26th April 1968 
S . O . 1587 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Settlement Com 
missioner by sub - section 2 of Section 10 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) 
Supplementary Act , 1954 (XII of 1954 ) he hereby delegates to Shri Sudershan 
Agarwal, Settlement Commissioner , the following powers of Chief Settlement 
Commissioner : 
( 1 ) Powers to call for the record of any case decided by the Settlement 

Officer and pass orders in the case under proviso to Sub - Section ( 3 ) 

of Section 4 of the said Act, 
( 2 ) Special powers of revision under Section 5 of the said Act in respect 

of cases decided under the Displaced Persons ( Claims) Suplemen 
tary Act, 1950 (44 of 1950 ) . 

[ No. 6 (7 ) AGZ /87. ) 

H , K . TANDON , 

Chief Settlement Commissioner. 
(Department of Robabilitation ) 
( Omce of the Chief Settlement Commissioner ) 

New Delhi, the 18th April 1968 
8 . 0 . 1588. - In exercise of the powers vested in me under sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 24 of the Administration of Evacuee Property Act, 1950 ( Act XXXI of 
1950 ) I. R . B . Mathur. Regional Settlement Commissioner - cum - Custodian of 
Evacuee Property , Delhi, hereby delegate to Shri Radha Krishna, Deputy Custo 
dian in my office , powers to hear appeals presented to the Custodian under Sec 
tion 24 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the A . E . P , Act 1950 against the orders passed by an Assistant 
Custodian . 

2 . This cancels the Notification dated the 28th September , 1967, which appear 
ed under S . O . No. 3670 (Omce of the Regional Settlement Commissioner ) at page 
3862 in the Gazette of India Part II, Section 3 , Sub - Section ( ii ) , No. 41 dated the 
14th October , 1967. 

[No . 28 (51 ) /Admn /RSCD /59. ) 

R . B . MATHUR , 
Regional Settlement Commissioner 

cum - Custodian . 


SŁC 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2137 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND COMPANY AFFAIRS 

( Department of Industrial Development) 

NOTIFIED ORDER 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
S . O . 1589. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 18A of the Indus 
tries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1961) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri S , N , Lahiri as the Authorised Controller of the India 
Electric Works Limited in place of Shri P . C . Basu with effect from the 20th 
April, 1968 ( A . N . ) and make the following further amendment in its notified Order 
No. S . O . 2695 dated the 8th November , 1960 / Kartika 17 , 1882, namely : 


In the said Order for the words " Shri P . C . Basu , Joint Development Com 
missioner , Small Scale Industries , Ministry of Commerce and Industry ” the words 
" Shri S , N . Lahiri, Secretary , the India Electric Works Limited , Calcutta " shall be 
substituted . 


2 . This Order shall have effect upto and inclusive of 10th June, 1968 . 

[No. 1 (5 ) / 67 -LEEI. ! 
LAL KHAMA, Under Secy. 


( Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 


New Delhi, the 25th April 1968 
S . O . 1390 / IDRA / 5 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the 
Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act , 1951 (65 of 1951) , read with rule 
8 of the Central Advisory Council ( Procedural) Rules . 1952, the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri G . M . Modi and Shri N . M , Wagle to be members of 
the Central Advisory Council of Industries till the 3rd November , 1969, in place 
of Shri L . N . Birla and Shri C . A , Pitts respectively and directs that the follow 
ing amendments shall be made in the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Industrial Development and Company Affairs ( Department of Indus 
trial Development ) No. S .O . 4044 , dated the 4th November , 1967, namely :- - 
( a ) In the said Order, for the entry No. 2 relating to Shri L . N . Birla, the 

following entry shall be substituted ; namely : 
" 2. Shri G . M . Modi; President, Federation of Indian Chambers of Com 

merce and Industry , Federation House, New Delhi- 1." 
( b ) In the said Order , for entry No. 3, relating to Shri C . A . Pitts , the 

following entry shall be substituted, namely : 
" 3. Shri N . M . Wagle , President, The Associated Chambers of Commerce 

and Industry of India , Royal Exchange, 6 , Netaji Subhas Road , 

Calcutta ." 
( c ) In the said order , the existing entry No. 11, relating to Shri G . M . Modi, 
Chairman , Modi Industries , Modi Nagar, ( U . P .) may be deleted . 

[No. 1 (6 ) Lic. Po1./ 67.] 
R . C . SETHI, Under Secy . 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

( Indian Standards Institution ) 
New Delhi, the 18th April 1968 


S . . . 1591. --- In nurjuance of sub - rule ( I ) of rule 1 of the In lian Standards Institution (Certi 
fication Virka Ruiles , 1955 thic In lian Standards (nstitution hereby notifies that the Standard 
Markfrigin of which together with the verbal description of tho design and the title of the 
relevant Indian Standard is given in the Schedule liéreto annexed , has been specified . 


2138 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 4, 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PARE 


- 


CuisniiriMark for the purpose ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks 
Act , 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder , shall come into force with effec . 
from 16th May 1968 : 

THE SCHEDULE 


şi. Design of the 
No. Standard Mark 


Product /Class of No, and Title of thic Verbal description of the design 
Product Relevant Indian 

of the Standard Mark 
Standard 


(1 ) 


(2) 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


( 5 ) 


I 


IS : - -- 


Chlordane emulsi - IS :2682- 1966 Speci- The monogram of the Indian 

fiable concen fication for chlor - Standards Institution cok 
irates 

dane emulsifiable sisting of letters ‘ ISI . drawn 
concentrates, 

in the exact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in 
col. (2 ) , the number designa 
tion of the Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the 
top side of the monogram 
as indicated in the design . 


1 ] 

[ NO . MD /17 : 2 ] 
S . O . 1592 - [n pussuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards 
119titution Certification Marks ) Regulations , 1955, the Indian Standards Ingritution hcreby 
notifies that themarking fee per unit for chlordanc emulsifiable corcentrates , details of which are 
given in the Schedule hcreto annexed , has been determined and the fee shall come into force with 
effect from 16th May 1968 : 

THE SCIIRDULE 


SI, 
No. 


Product /Class of 

Products 


No. and Title of Relevant 

Indiar Standard 


Unit 


Markiny Föe fet, 

Unit 


( 3 ) 


(4 ) 


3 Paise 


I . Chlordanc emulsifiahle: IS : 2682 - 1966 Specification One litre 
concentrates , 

for chlordane emulsifiable 
concentrates. 


[No. MD / 18 : 2 ] 


New Delhi , the 19th April , 1968 
S . O . 1593 lo pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulation , 1955 , as subsequently it 

amended , the Indian Standards Institution herby notifies that eightyone licences , particulars of thich are given in the schedule hereto annexed , have | 
been renewed . 


SC9(11), 


THE SCHEDULE 


Si. 
Ne, 


Licence No. 

and date 


Period of Validity 
From To 


Name and address of the 

licensee 


Article Process covered by the 

licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


(1) 


(2 ) 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


-- 


- - - - - 


- 


1 - 4 - 68 


[ CML- 7 

27 - 12 - 1955 


2 


1 - 2 -68 


CM / L - 50 

20- 1 - 1958 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


3 


CM / L - 120 

20 - 3 - 1959 


1-1-68 


I - 1 -68 


31-3-69 


4 CMIL-2162 


4 CM / L - 162 

5 - 2 - 1960 


1-4-68 


1 - 4 - 68 


31 - 3 -69 The Pioneer Magnesia Works Magnesium chloride , grade 3. IS :354 - 1962 Specification for 
Ltd ., 113 / 115 , Mahatma 

magnesium chloride (revised ). 
Gandhi Road , Fort, Bombay, 
31 - 1 -69 M /s . East India Plywood Co . Tea -chest plywood panels. IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
Private Ltd . , 2 Netaji Subhas 

plywood tea - chest ( second rovi 
Road, Calcutta . 

sion ). 
31- 3 -69 M / s, Himalayan Plywood Indus- Tea - chest plywood panels . IS : 10 - 1964 specification for ply 
tries Pvt . Ltd . , Tinsukia 

wood tea - chests ( second revi 
(Assam ) . 

sion ) 
31- 3 - 69 M /s , National Pipes & Tubes ( a ) Naval brass rods , bars and (1) IS : 291- 1961 specification for 
Co . Ltd . , Shamnagar , Eastern sections , 

naval brass rods and sections 
Railway , having their Regd . 

(suitable for machining and 
Office at Nicco House , Hare 

forging ) (revised ) . 
Street , Calcutta - ) , 

( b ) Free cutting brass rods and (ii) IS :319 - 1962 Specification for 
sections, 

free cutting brass rods and 

Sections (revised ) . 
( c ) High tensile brass rods and ( iii) IS : 320 - 1962 Specification for 
sections . 

high tensile brass rods and 

sections (revised ). 
31- 3 -69 M / s . National Pipes & Tubes ( a ) Copper rods for boiler stay (A) IS : 288 - 1960 Specification for 
Co. Ltd ., Shamnagar, Eastern bolts and rivets . 

copper rods for boiler stay ! 
Railway , having their Regd . 

bolts and rivets ( revised ). 
Office at Nioco House , Hare ( b ) Copper rods for electrical ( ) IS :613 - 1964 Specification for 
Street, Calcutta - I. purposes . 

copper rods for electrical 
purposes (Tetrised ) . 


31-3-65 


I - 1 - 68 


5 CML- 163 

5 - 2 - 1960 


2139 


. 


- 


- 


(1) 


2140 


(2) 


-- 


(3) 


(4) 


6 


CM / L - 170 

IT - 3 - 1960 


1 -4 - 68 


31- 3 - 69 


IS : 1011 - 1957 Specification for 
biscuits (excluding wafer bis 
cuits ) . 


The Britannia Biscuit Co . Ltd ., Biscuits (excluding Wafer biscuits ) 
15 , Taratola Road , Calcutta - 27 . of the following varieties : 

Glaxo , Bourbon , bourn 
vita dainty cream , nice , 
digestive , orange cream , 
circus petit beurre , marie , 
cottage cream , ginger outs, 
embassy cream , thin arrow 
root, cream crackers , nimki, 
golden puff cheeselets 
britta , zesta , coconut cook 
ies , club snax , fruit cream , 
horlicks . 


7 CM / L - 17 ! 

Ii- 3 - 1960 


1 - 4 -68 


31. 


59 


wafer 


The Britannia Biscuit Co . Ltd ., Biscuits ( excluding 
Reay Road , Mazagaon , biscuits) . 
Bombay - IO . 


IS : 1011 - 1957 Specification for 
biscuits ( exchuding Wafer bis 
cuits) . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


8 


8 CM11, 17266 


CM / L - 172 

II - 3 - 1960 


1-4-68 


1 - 4 - 68 


311315 


31 : 31 


M / s. Parle Product Private Ltd ., Biscuits (excluding wafer bis - IS : 7011 - 1957 Specification for 
North Level Crossing , Vile cuits ) of the follFoing yarie - biscuits ( excluding Wafer bis 
Parle , Bombay - 24 . 

cuits ). 
Gluco , monaco , bikkies , 
korumba, khara, PPC . 


ties : 


9 CM / L - 173 

II- 3 - 1960 


1 - 4 - 68 


31 j .( !: Mi s . Lily Biscuits Co . Pvt. Ltd . , Biscuits ( excluding Fafer bis - ISHIO11- 1957 Specification for 

3 , Ramakanta Sen Lane, cuits ) of the following varie biscuits (excluding wafer bis 
Ultadanga , Calcutta - 4 . ties : 

cuits ) . 
Carnival, lucky, banana, 
cream , lova , thur , daisy , 
rosy, nonta , lily , zoologi 
cal, Gem , Boston cream , 
cbarm , custard cream , 
malto , barley , fruit 
cream , orange cream, 
picts choice , marie , cream , 
cracker , and chocolate 
cream . . 


(PARTII 


I - 4 - 68 


Io CM / L - 174 

11 - 3 - 1960 


13- 3 -69 M /s . Sathe Biscuit & Chocolate Biscuits (excluding wafer bis - IS : 1011 - 1957 Specification for 

Co. Ltd ., 820 , Bhavani Peth , cuits ) of the following varie - biscuits ( excluding Wafer bis 
Poona - 2 . ties : 

cuits ). 


Sec 
. 
3 
( 
1 
) 
] 


11 Mayo 


II CL-IT5 

14 - 3 - 1960 


1 - 4 -68 


1468 


13-3-69 


1 - 4 - 68 


12 CM / L - 176 

14 - 3 - 1960 


13 CM / L - 269 

30 - I - 1961 


1 - 2 -68 


14 CM /L -275 

15 - 2 - 1961 


Francis , orange, orange 
cream , gluca lactine, 
shrewsbury , maltex , saltex , 

esbik , 
13 - 3 - 69 M / s. Camlin Private Limited , ( 1 ) Ferro - gallo tannate foun - IS :220 - 1959 Specification for 

210 , Lady Jamshedji Road , tain pen ink (0 . 1 percent iron ferro - galln tannate fountain pen 
Mahim , Bombay - 16 . content) . 

ink ( 0 - 1 per cent iron content) 

(repised ) . 
( 2 ) Ferro - gallo tannate foun - IS : 1581- 1960 Specification for 

tain pen ink (0 . 2 percent iron ferro - gallo tannate fountain pen , 
content). 

ink (0 * 2 per cent iron content). 
31 - 3 - 69 M /s . Camlin Private Limited , Dye - based fountain pen ink , IS : 1221- 1957 Specification for 

210 , Lady Jamshedji Raod , blue, red , black and green . dye based fountain pen ink (blue, 
Mabim Bombay - 16 . 

green , violet, black and red ) . 
31 - 1 -69 Ms. Flintrock Products Pvt. DDT water dispersible powder IS : 565- 1961 Specification for 
Lid ., Belvedere Road, Maza - concentrates . 

DDT water dispersible powder 
gaon , Bombay - Io . 

concentrates (revised ). 
28 - 2 -69 M s, Sudhir ChemicalCompany, Copper oxychloride water dis- IS : 1507 - 1966 Specification for 

213 - Sanual Street, Vadgadi, persible powder concentrates . copper oxychloride water dis 
Bombay - 3 . 

persible powder concentrates 

( revised ) . 
15 -3 -69 The Indian Yeast Co . Ltd ., Baker s yeast , dried . 

IS : 1320 - 1958 Specification for 
Bhadrakali, Konnagar , West 

baker s yeast . 
Bengal having their Office at 

4 , Baakshell Street, Calcutta - I . 
15 - 3 - ń Mi s . Boats Pure Drug Co. Co -pper oxychloride Justing IS : 1506 - 1967 Specification for 
( India ) Ltd ., Sion , Bombay - 22 powders . 

copper oxychloride dusting pow 
having their registered office 

ders ( revised ) . 
at 17 , Nicol Road , Bombay - I. 
15 -3 -69 The National Insulated Cable Co . , PVC cables only ( 250 volts (i) IS : 694 (Part I)- 1964 Speci - 11 
of India Limited , Siramnagar , and 650 Volts grade). 

fication for PVC insulated 
24 -Parganas, West Bengal 

cables ( for voltages up to 
having their registered office 

I 100 V ) with copper conductors 
at Nicco House , Hare Street , 

( revisa ). 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
MAY 
4 
, 
1988 
/ 
VAISAKHA 
14 
, 
1890 


1 - 3 -68 


15 CM L - 386 

5 - 3 - 1962 


16 - 3 - 68 


16 CML- 337 

5 - 3 - 1962 


15 - 3 - 53 


17 CM / L - 389 

5 - 2 - 1962 


16 - 3 -68 


- 


- - - - - - 


2141 


2142 


Calcutta - I . 


( 1) IS : 694 (Part 11) - 1964 Speci 

fication for PVC insulated cables 
{for voltages up to 100V 
with aluminiuni conductors 
(reysed ) . 


1 - 4 -63 


31- 3 - 69 


18 CM / L - 392 

20 - 3 - 1962 


M /s . Hindustan Steel Ltd . , Mild steel and medium teasile 

Durgapur Steel Project, P . O . steel bars for concrete rein 
Durgapur - 3 , Dt. Burdwan forcement, 
having their Regd , Office at 
Bihar Seatt, Building, P . O . 
Hinoo , Ranchi, 


IS : 32- 1960 - Specification for 

mild steel and medium tonsile 
steel bars and hard - drawn steel 
Fire for concrete rcioforcement 
(revised ) . 


19 CMIL - 393 

20 - 3 - 1962 


1 - 4 -68 


31- 3 -69 


M / s. Hindustan Steel Ltd . , Structural steel (high tensile ). IS : 961- 1962 Specification for 
Durgapur Steel Project, P . O . 

structural steel [high tensile ) 
Durgapur- 3 , Dt. Burdwan 

(revised ) . 
having their Regd . Office at 
Bihar Sect. Building , P . O . 

Hinoo , Ranchi. 
Mis. Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Rivet bars for structural purposes. IS : 1148 - 1964 Specification for 
Durgapur Steel Project, P . O . 

rivet bars for structural purposes 
Durgapur - 3 , Dt. Burdwan 

( revised ). 
having their Regd, Office at 
Bihar Sectt. Building , P . O . 
Hinoo, Ranchi. 


"THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


1 - 4 -68 


31- 3 -69 


20 CM / L - 394 

20 - 3 - 1962 


1 - 4 -68 


31- 3 


21 CM / L - 395 

20 - 3 - 1962 


M s, Hindustan Steel Ltd . , High tensile river bars for struc - IS : 1119 . 1964 Specification for 
Durgapur Steel Project, P . O . tural purposes , 

high cosile rivet bars for 
Durgapur - 3 , Dt. Burdwan 

structural purposes (revised ) , 
having their Regd . Office at 
Bihar Seat. Building , P . O . 
Hinoo , Ranchi. 


22 CM / L - 475 

27 - 11 - 1962 


1 - -68 


31-31 


M / s. V . Gopalakrishanan Chettiar Wrought aluminium circies 

& Co. , proprietors : M / s. grades SIB and SIC . 
Madura Metal Products , 
32 , 32 - 8 , Bridge Station 
Road , Sellur, Tallakulam 
P . O . Madras - 2 


15 : 21 - 1959 Specification for 

wrought aluminium and alumi 
nium alloy fos utensils (second 
(revision ). 


[PARTII 


23 CM / L .508 

25 - 2 - 1963 


16 - 3 - 68 


15 - 3 - 69 


Sro.9111] 


16 - 3 -68 


15 -3 - 69 


24 CM / L .514 

7 -3 - 1963 


M /s . Tata Fison Industries Ltd ,, Endrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1310 – 1958 Specification for 
Palluruhy , Cochin - s having 

endrin emulsifiable concen 
their office at Union Bank 

trates. 
Bldg . , Dalal Street, Fort , 
Bombay- I . 
The Indian ToolManufacturers Parallel shank (short series ) and IS :599 - 1960 Specification for 
Ltd ., IOI, Sioo Road , Bombay - taper shank twist drills . 

twist drills (revised ). 
22 . 
M / s. AM . Kehmani, 1863 , Dye -based fountain pen ink , IS : 1221 - 1957 Specification for 
Kalupu , Panchapatty , blue , green , red and black dye - based fountain pen ink 
Ahmedabad - I , 

(blue, green , violet , black 
and red ). 


25 CM /L.. 515 

15 - 3 - 1963 


I - 4 -68 


31 - 3 -69 


26 


CM L .516 

21- 3 - 1963 


1 - 4 -68 


31 - 3 -69 


Mis . Henley Cables India Limic Rubber insulated cables of the ( i) IS : 434 (Part I) - 1964 Specifi 
ted , Sholapur Road, Poona - I following types : 

cation for rubber insulated cables 
having their Regd Office at (a ) VIR Voltage Conductor with copper conductors (re 
Henley House , Ballard Estate , Cables Grade 

oised ) . 
Fort, Bombay - 1. for Fixed 

(ü ) IS : 434 (Part II) - 1964 Specifi 
Wiring 

cation for rubber insulated 

cables with aluminium conduc 
(1) Tough 250 /440 & 

tors (revised ). 
rubber 650 / 1100 

sheathed Volts 1 Copper 
(ii) Braided 250 / 440 & 1 or 

and Com - 650 / 1100 aluminium 

pounded Volts 
( ) Weath - 250 / 440 

er proof Volts 
(iv ) weather - 650 / 1100 Aluminium 

Proof Volts Only 
( ) Flame 250 /440 & Aluminium 

retard - 650 / 1100 Only 

ing Volts 
b ) VIR 

Flexible 
Cables 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


( vi) TRS 
welding 
cables 


Copper 

only 


2143 


2144 


( 5 ) 


(6 ) 


Copper 
only . 


( c ) VIR 

Flemble 

Cords 
(vii) Twin ) 

twisted 2501 
Domes - I 440 

tic type . | Volts. 
( viii) Tough 

rubber 

sheathed , 
(ix ) Braided 

and com 
pounded 
(yyork 
shop 
type ) . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1800 


27 CM / L - 523 

27 - 3 - 1963 


1 - 4 -68 


31 - 3 -69 


M /s . Kamrup Industries Pvt. Ltd , Tea -chest plywood panels 

9 , Old Court House St, 
Calcutta - I (Factory at 96 , 
Mohendra Banerji Road , 
Behala , Calcutta -34 ). 


IS : 10 - 1964 

plywood 
TEUIS101 ). 


Specification for 
tea - chests (second 


28 CM /L622 

23 - 1 - 1964 


1 - 3 - 68 


28 - 2 -69 


M / s, R . N . Datta & Company, Steel conduits for electrical wir - IS : 1653 - 1964 Specification for 
30 Bediadanga , 2nd Lane, ing. 

rigid steel conduits for electrical 
Calcutta39 having their Office at 

wiring (revised ) . 
Mercantile Buildings , Block 
D , 1st Floor, 10 /1F . Lall 

Bazar Street , Calcutta - I . 
M / s. Usha Martin Black (Wire (i) Steel wire ropes for winding (i) IS : 1855 - 1961 Specification 
Ropes ) Ltd ,. Tatisilvai, Ranchi, purposes in inines . 

for steel wire ropes for winding 
having their Regd, Office at (ii) Steel wire ropes for haulage purposes in mines. 
14 , Princep Street , Calcutta purposes in mines. 

(ii ) IS : 1856 - 1961 Specification for 
13 . 

steel wire ropes for haulagell 
purposes ju mincs . 


29 CM /L -629 16 -3 - 68 

18 - 2 - 1964 . 


15 - 3 -69 


[PART11– 


30 


CM /L - 631. 

21- 2 - 1964 


1- 4 -68 


21 - 8 -69 


/ s . Bayer ( Ladia ) Ltd . Off Formutations based on stabilized 

Cadell Road , Bombay - 28 methoxy ethyl mercury chlo 
having their Registered Office ride concentrates , 
at Nagin Mahal, 6th Floor, 
Veer Nariman Road , Fort, 
Bombay- I. 


IS2358 - 1963 Specification for ti 

formulations based on stabilized 
methoxy ethyl mercury chloride 
concentrates . 


SEG 
. 
$ 
( 
11 
) 
] 


31 CM /L -632 

21 -2 - 1964 


1-4-68 


16 - 2 -68 


32 CM / L - 633 

26 - 2 - 1964 


33 CM /L -634 

26 - 2 - 1964 


16 - 3 -68 


31 -3-69 

M / s . Bayer (India ) Ltd ,. Of Organo mercurial dry seed IS : 3284 - 1965 Specification for 
Cadell Road , Bombay - 28 dressing formulations. 

organo mercuriai dry seed 
having their Registered Office 

dressing formulations. 
at Nagin Mahal, 6th Floor, 
· Veer Nariman Road, Fort, 

Bombay- I . 
15 - 3 - 70 The Indian Tron & Steel Co Ltd ., Galvanized steel sheets ( plain IS - 277 - 1962 Specification for 
Burnpar Works, P . O . Burapur, and corrugated ). 

galvanized steel sheets (plain 
Dt. Builwan , West Bengal 

and corrugated ) (recised ) . 
having their Regd . Office at 

12 , Mission Row , Calcutta- I. 
15 - 3 - 70 The lodian Iron & Steel Co ,. Hot rolled carbon steel sheet and IS : 1079 - 1963 Specification for hot 
Ltd ,. Burapur Works , P . O . stop 

rolled carbon steel sheet and 
Burnpus, Dt Bundwat , West 

strip (revised ) 
Bengal having their Registered 
Oftice at 12 , Mission Roy , 

Calatta - I 
15 - 3 - 70 The Indian Iron & Steel Co Structural steel (ordinary quality . IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Ltd , Burnpur Works , P . O . 

struetaral steel (ordinary quality 
Burnpui, Dt. Burdwan , West 
Bengal having their Regd . 
Office at 12 , Mission Row , 

Calotta - 1. 
15 -3 - 70 The Indian Iron & SteelCo , Ltd , Structuralsteel (fusion welding IS :2062 - 1962 Specification for 
Bumpur Yorks , P . O . 511 ,1 - quality ) . 

stuteturai steel (fusion welding ) 
pur, Dt Burdwan , West Bengal 

quality ). 
having their Regd , Office at 

12 , Mission Row , Calcutta- 1. 
15 - 3 -69 The Mysore Iron & Steel Ltd ,. Structural steel (standard quality ) IS :226 - 1962 Specification for 
Bhadravati (Mysore State ) 

structural steel (standard quality ) 

( third revision ). 
15 - 3 -69 The Mysore Iron & Steel Ltd , Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Bhadravati (Myore State ). 

structoralsteel (ordinary quality 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
MAY 
4 
, 
1908 
/ 
VAISAKHA 
14 
, 
1890 


34 CM / L -635 

26 - 2 - 1964 


16 - 2 -68 


35 CM / L -636 

26 - 2 - 1964 


16 - 3 -68 


17 


36 CM /L -637 

26- 2 - 1964 


16-3-63 


16 - 3 - 68 


15-3.69 


CM /L -638 

26 - 2 - 1964 


16 - 3 -68 


Shit 


2116 


- 


-- 


38 CM /L -640 

27 - 2 - 1964 


39 CM / L - 736 

20 - 6 - 1964 


16 - 3 -68 


40 CM / L - 737 

20 - 6 - 1964 


16 -3 -66 


31- 3 -69 M /s . Bharat Palverining Mills COC Water dispersible powder IS : 1507 - 1966 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd , Hazamar House , concentrates 

COC Water dispersible powder 
28 , SayanlRoad , Bombay - 28 . 

concentrates . 
15- 3 -69 Mis Bombay Steel Rolling Mills Structural steel (standard qua IS :226 - 1962 Specificatice for 
Ltd , Kalyani, District Nadia lity ). 

structural steel (standard quality ) 
( W . Bengal) having their Office 

(third revision ) . 
at 33 , Netaji Subhas Road , 

Calcutta , 
15- 3 -69 M /s Bombay SteelRolling Mills Structural steel (ordinary IS : 1977- 1962 Specification for 
Ltd , Kalyani, DistrictNadia : quality ) 

structural steel (ordinary quality ). 
( W . Bengal) having their Office 
at 33 , Netaji Subhas Roads 

Calcutta . 
31- 3-69 M /s. Himachal Government Gum spirit of turpentine grades IS :533 - 1954 Specification for 
Rosin & Turpentine Factory , 1 & 2 

gum spirit of tūrpentine ( oil of 
Nahan (HimachalPradesh ). 

[Dipentine). 
31 - 3 - 69 MsHimachal Government Rosin (gum rosin ) types IS :553 - 1955 Specification for 
Rosin and Turpentine Factory , pale , medium and dark . 

rosin (gum rosin ) . 
Nahan (HimachalPradesh ) . 
15 -3 -69 M /s. Art Leather Private Ltd , Tracing cloth 

IS -2037- 1962 Specificalir for 
Bhor having their registered 

tracing cloth , 
Office at Sir Vithaldas Chambers 
16 , Apollo Street, Fort ,Bombay 


41 CM / L - 741 

10 - 7 - 1964 


1 -4 -58 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


42 CM /L -751 

30 - 7 - 1964 


1- 4 - 68 


43 CM /L -785 

22 - 9 - 1964 


16 - 3 - 68 


1 - 2 -68 


44 CM / L - 991 

21 - 1 - 1965 


45 CM L - IOIS 

26 - 2 - 1965 


16- 3-68 


31- 1 -69 M /s Assam Forest Products Pot Plywood for general purposes IS :303- 1960 Specification for 
Ltd , Makum Sanction ( Assam ) 

plywood for general parposes 
having their Registered Office 

(Tedised ). 
at Dibrugarh (Assam ). 
15 -3 - 69 M /s Capstan Meters ( India ) Ltd , Water meters (domestic type ) IS :779- 1965 Specification for 

Took Road (Naar Dorgapura ), ( ) Dry - dial type- 15 mm , 20 water meters ( domestic type) 
Jaipur having their Office at mm , 25mmand 40 mm sizes . (second revision ) 

52, Jo path ,New Delhi. (6 ) Wet - dial type - 15 mm size . 
15 -3 - 69 M s NationalElectro Mechanical Three - phase Induction motors IS :325- 1961 Specification for 
Co, DhebarbhaiRoad , Rajkot up to 3 HP only, 

three -phase induction motors 
(second 7 forsion ). 


Ị6 - 3 -68 


46 CM /L - 1016 

26 - ? - 1995 


(PARTII 


1 - 4 -68 


47 CV L - 1923 

4 - 3 - 1965 


Sro.8(11)] 


1 - 4 -68 


48 CM / L - 1038 

22 - 3 - 1965 


49 CM / L - 1011 

25 - 3 - 1965 


1 -4 - 68 


31 - 3 -69 Ms. ndodan Milk Proiucrs Ltd , 1 .713ed milk , full crean 18 : 1166 - 1957 Specification for 
Buati a Roi , Muzaffarnagar , Sweetened . 

condensed milk . 
U . P . having their Registered 
Office at P -38, India Exchange 

Place , Calcutta - 1. 
31 - 3 -69 M /s. Bharat Pulverising Mils DDT emulsifiabie concentrates IS :633 - 1956 Specification for DDT 
Pot, Ltd . Hesampar , House , 

emulsifiable concentrates . 
28 - A , Sayani Road , Bombay . 
31- 3 -69 The Indian Iron & Steel Co . Carbon steelbars , billets , blooms IS : 1875 - 1966 Specification for 

Ltd . Bucupar Works , P . O . 01 slabs for forgings . Acarbon steel billets , blooms and 
Burapur, Dt. Burdwan , West 

skabs for forgings (revised ). 
Bengal having their Regd . 
Office at 12 , Mission Rows 

Calcutta - I 
31- 3 - 69 The Indian Iron & Steel Co , Ltd . , Carbon steel billets for re - rolling IS : 2830 - 1964 Specification for 

BurnpurWorks, P . O . Burppur into structural steel (standard carbon steel billets for re - rolling 
Distt. Burdwan, West Bengal quality ). 

into structural steel (standard 
having their Regd . Office at 

quality ) . 
12 , Mission Ron , Calcutta - I . 


50 CM /L -1042 

25 - 3 - 1965 


1 - 4 -68 


51 CML - 1043 

25 - 3 - 1965 


1 - 4 -68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


52 CM / L - 1045 

26 - 3 - 1965 


I- 4 -68 


53 CM / L - 1207 

4 - 2 - 1966 


1-4-68 


31- 3 - 69 The Indian Iron & Steal Co ., Carbon steelbillets for re - rolling IS : 2831- 1964 Specification for 

Ltd. , Burnpur Works , P . O . ¡nto structural steel (ordinary carbon steet billets for re 
Burnpur, Distt. Burdwan , quality ). 

rolling into structural steel (ordi 
West Bengal having their Regd . 

nary quality ) . 
Office at 12 , Mission Row , 

Calcutta - I . 
31- 3 - 69 M /s . Lucky Acid and Chemical Hydrochloric acid , technical IS : 265 - 1962 Specification for 

Works, 32 /2 , Murari Pukur pure and analytical reagent hydrochloric acid ( revised ) . 
Road , Calcutta - 4 . 

grades. 
31 -3 -69 M /s.Power Cables Private Ltd ., Mild steel wire for general en - IS : 280 - 1962 Specification for mild 
Vithalwadi, Kalyan (Maharashtra gineering purposes. 

steel wire for general engineering 
State ). 

purposes (revised ). 
31- 3 -69 M / s, Hindustan Kokoku Wire Steel wire for the core of steel- IS ; 398 - 1961 Specification for 

Ltd ., 12th Milestone , Delhi- cored aluminium conductor hard - drawn stranded aluminium 
Mathura Road, Faridabad , for overhead power transmis and steel- cored aluminium CD 
Distt . Gurgaon (Punjab ) sion purposes. 

dutors for overhead power trans 
having their Regd. Office at 

mission purposes (rooised ). 
M - 10 , New Delhi- South 
· Extension , Part II, Ner 
· Delhi - 16 . 


1 -4 -68 


31-3-69 


54 CM / L - 1209 

15 - 2 - 1966 


1 - 4 - 68 


:2147 


2148 


58 CM {L - 1215 

28 -2 - 1966 


16- 3 -68 


56 CM / L - 1216 

28 - 2 - 1966 


16 - 3 -68 


15-3 -69 The Mysore Iron and Steel Ltd . Struktural Steel ( fusion welding IS : 2062 - 1962 Specification for 
Bhadravati (Mysore State ). quality ). 

structural steel ( fusion welding 

quality ). 
15 - 3 - 69 The Mysore Iron and Steel Ltd Carbon steel bars, billets , blooms IS : 1875 - 1966 Specification for 
Bhadravati (Mysore State ). and slabs for forgings . 

carbon steel, billets , bloomis 

and slabs for forgings ( revised ). 
31 -3 -69 M /s . Modi Arc Electrodes Co., Covered electrodes for metal IS : 814 - 1963 Specification for 

Modinagar , Distt, Meerut arc welding of mild steel, bos- covered electrodes for metal 
( U . P ) 

mal penetration type only . arc welding of mild steel (redised ) . 


57 


CM /L - L219 

3 - 3 - 1966 


1 - 4 -68 


58 CML-13 


16-3-68 


16 - 3 -68 


15-3-69 


3 - 3 - 1966 


Steel pire ropes for haulage 
purposes in mides . 


15 - 3 - 69 Ms. J. K . Steel Limited , Rishra 

Distt . Hooghly (West Bengal) 
having their Office at 18 , 
Rabindra Sarani, Calcutta - I. 


IS : 1856 - 1961 Specification for 
steel wire ropes for haulage pur 

poses in mines. 
(* ) IS : 1855- 1951 Specification for 

steel wire ropes for winding 
purposes in wines . 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
MAY 
4 
, 
1968 
/ 
VAISAKHA 
14 
, 
1890 


( ) Steel wire ropes for winding 

purposes la mines, 


59 CM / L - 1223 


16 - 3 -68 


9 - 3 - 1966 


15 - 3 - 69 M /s , Calcutta Plywood Mfg . Tea - chest piywood panels . 

Co., P . O . LEDO , District 
Lakhimpur (Assam ) having 
their Office at P 46A , C . I. T . 
Scheme XLV , Radhabazar 
Lane, Calcutta I . 


IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 

plywood tea chests (second 
revision ) . 


60 


CM {L - 1225 

11 - 3 - 1965 


16 - 3 -68 


I5 - 3 - 69 


M / s. J . J . H . Industries Private Hard drawn stranded aluminium 

Limited , 9 , Transport Depot and steel cored aluminium 
Road , (Hide Road Extension ), conductors for overhead power 
Calcutta - 27 . 

transmission purposes . 


IS : 398- 1961 Specification for 

bard drawn stranded alumi 
nium and steel- cored aluminium 
conductors for overhead power 
transmisson purposes ( revised ). 


61 CM /L - 1226 

11 - 3 - 1966 


16 -3 -68 


15 - 3 - 69 M / s. Bindawala Industrial Cor - Hard drawn stranded aluminium IS : 398 - 1961 Specification for 

poration , Rishra , Hooghly and steel- cored Aluminium hard drawn stranded aluminitin 
having their Office at 6 Hansa nductors for overhead power and steel- cored aluminium con 
puku Ist Lan4e, Ccutta - 7 transmission purposes .. 

ductors for overhead power 
transmission purposes (Teised ) . . ? 


( 
PART 
II 


62 CM {L -1227 

11- 3 - 1966 


16- 3 -68 


15 - 3 - 69 


M /s. Nahan Foundry Limited , 
Nahan, Distt. Sirmur (H .P .) 


Three - phase induction motors IS : 325 - 1961 Specification for 
(upto 15 HP only ) . 

three - phase induction motors 
( second revision ) 


Szc.$(11)] 


63 CM }L - 1228 

17 - 3 - 1966 


1 - 4 -68 


31-3 -69 


M / s. Prakash Pulverising Mills, Adlrin dusting powders , 

Industrial Area , Alvar . 


64 CM /L - 1231 

25 - 3 - 1956 


1- 4 -68 


31- 3 -69 M /s. Special Steels Limited, 

Dattapara Road , Borivli , 
Bombay -66 . 


Galvanized armour wires for 

electric cables . 


IS : 1308 - 1958 Specification for 

aldrin dusting powders . 
O ) IS : (434 Part- 1) - 1964 Specifi 

cation for rubber insulated 
cables with mpper conductors 
( revised ). 
(# ) IS : (434 Part II) - 1964 Speci 
fication for rubber insulated 
cables with aluminium conduc 

tors ( Tedised ) . 
( 1 ) IS 692 - 1965 Specification for 

paper insutated lead - sheatedh 
cables for electricity supply 
(revised ) . 
(id ) IS : 1554 Part I) - 1964 Speci 

fication for PVC insulated 
(heavy duty ) electric cables for 
Working voltages upto and in 

cluding I10 volts (revised ). 
IS : 1765- 1957 Specification for 

milk powder ( hole and skim ) . 3 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


65 CM /L - 1234 

29- 3 - 1966 


65 CMoje 


1-468 


1-4 -68 


37-3-6° 


66 CM / L - 1239 

4 - 4 - 1966 


16 - 4 -68 


31-3 -6. M /s. Mehsana Distt . Co -opera - Milk powder (whole and skim ). 

tive Milk Producers Union 
Ltd , Dudhsagar Dairy , State 
Highway , Mehsana North 

Gujarat ). 
15 -4 -6 M /s. Venkateswara Agro BHC dusting powders. 

Chemicals & Minerals , 6 /303 , 
Thiruyottiyur High Road , 

Madras - 21. 
15 - 4 -69 M /s.Venkateswara Agro Chemi- DDT dusting powders, 

cals & Minerals, 6 / 303, 
Thirtyottiyur High Road , 
Madras -21. 


IS : 561- 1961 Specification for 
BHC dusting powders ( second 
r ) . 


67 CM /L - 1240 

4 - 4 - 1966 


16 - 4 - 68 


IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for 
DDT dusting powders . 


68 CM /L - 1379 

30- 12 - 1966 


16 - 1 -68 


15 - 1 - 69 


M / s . Alembic Chemical Works Parathion emulsifiable concen - 

Co . Ltd ., Alembic Rosd , trates 
Baroda - 3 . 


IS : 2129 - 1962 Specification for 

Parathion emustifiable conced 
trates. 


2149 


2150 


(1) 


(2 ) 


(3) 


(4 ) 


69 CML- 


69 CM /L - 1397 

28 - 2 - 1967 


1-3-68 [28-369 


5 - 3 -68 


70 CM L - 1398 

28- 2 - 1967 


1-3 -68 


71 CM / L - 1400 

28- 2 - 1967 


1 - 3 -68 


[28 - 2 -69 M /s. Central Insecticides & Fer- Copper oxychloride water dis - IS : 1507 - 1966 Specification for 

tilisers , Saki Naka, Vihar Lake persibke powder concentrates . copper oxychloride water dis 
Road , Kurla , Bombay - 70 . 

persible powder concentrates 

( revised ). 
28 -2 -69 M /s. Central Insecticides & Akrin dusting powders . IS : 1308 - 1958 Specification for 
Fertilisers , Saki Naka , Vihar 

aldrin dusting powders . 
Lake Road, Kurla , Bombay -70 . 
28- 2 -69 M /s. Bharat Minerals & Chemi- Endrin emulsifiable conced - IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
cals Co. , Transport Depot trates. 

Endrin emuslifiable concentrates . 
Road , Calcutta - 70 having their 
Office at 174 , Mahatma 

Gandhi Road , Calcutta - 7. 
15 -3 -69 M /s . Industrial Mineral & Che BHC dusting powders. 

IS : 561- 1962 Specification for 
mical Co ., Kurla Marol 

BHC dusting powders (second 
Road , Chakala . Andheri, 

revision ). 
Bombay- 58 having their 
Office at 125 , Narayan Dhuru 
Street, Nagdevi, Bombay -3 . 


72 CM / L - 1401 

28- 2 - 1967 


6 - 3 -68 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


73 CM / L - 1403 

3 - 3 - 1967 


16 - 3 -68 


IS : 562 -1962 Specification for 
BHC water dispepsible powder 
concentrates ( second revision ). 


15 -9 -68 M /s . Indian Mineral Industries BHC water dispersible powder 

Ltd . , Trenching Ground conæntrates . 
Approach Road , Agarpara , 24 
Parganas having their Office 
at 24 / 1, Dum Dum Road , 

Calcuita - 2 . 
15 -3 -69 M / s. Tata Fison Industries Ltd ., Malathion emulsifiable concen- 

431/ 4 , Panchpokhadi Village , tratos . 
Balrajeshwar Road , Mulund , 
Bombay - 80 having their Office 
at Union Bank Building, Dalai 
Street, Fort, Bombay . 


74 CMIL1404 

8 - 3 - 1967 


16 - 3 -68 


= 


IS : 2567 - 1963 Specification for 
Malathion emulsifiable concen . 
trates . 


75 CM / L - 1405 

13 - 3 - 1967 


16 - 3 -68 


15 -3 - 69 M /s . Rannkrishan Kulwant Rai, Structural Steel ( standard 

Tiruyottiyur , Madras having quality ) . 
their Office at 35 , Sembudoss 
Street , Ist Floor , Madras - I . 


IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 

ructural steel (standard quality ) 
(thard revision ). 


[PARTII 


76 


16 -3 -68 


15 - 3 -69 


CM / L - 1407 

14 - 3 - 1967 


Ms. Power Cables Pt. Ltd ., Polythene insulated and PVC 
Vithalwadi, Near Kalyan , 

sheathed cables, single core 
Bombay . 

and twin flat, with aluminium 
conductors . 


IS : 1596 - 1962 Specification 

polythene insulated and 
sheathed cables . 


for 
PVC 


SEC.(li)] 


1 - 4 - 68 


31- 3 - 69 


77 CM /L- 1412 

1 - 4 - 1967 


1249 


M /s . Alembic Chemical Works BHC water dispersible powder IS : 562 - 1962 Specification for 
Co . Lt., Alembic Road , Concentrates . 

BHC water dispersible powder 
Baroda -3 

concentrates (second revision ) . 


78 CM / L - 1413 

1 - 4 - 1967 


1 -4 -68 


79 CM / L - 1414 

27 - 3 - 1967 


1- 4 -68 


31- 3 -69 M / s. Alembic Chemical Works Endrin emulsifiable concentrates. IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 

Co . Ltd ., Alembic Road , 
Baroda -3 . 

Endrin emulsifiable concentra es. 
31- 3 -69 M /s . Orient Iron and Steel Co , Structural Steel (standard quality ) IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
(P ) Ltd ., 2 , Height Road , 

structural steel (standard quality ) 
Liluah , Howrah . 

(third revision ). 
31- 3 - 69 M / s. Orient Iron and Steel Structural Steel (ordinary IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Co . (P ) Ltd ., 2 Height Road , quality ). 

structural steel (ordinary quality) 
Liluah Howrah . 
30 - 9 -68 M / s. Omega Insulated Cable Co . (India ) Polythene insulated and PVC IS : 1596 - 1962 Specification for 

Limited , Plot No . 16 & 17 , sheathed cables with alumi- polythene insulated and PVC 
Industrial Estate , Ambattu , nium conductors (single core sheathed cables. 
Madras- 53 

anly ) 


1 - 4 -68 


80 CM / L - 1415 

27 - 3 - 67 


1 - 4 -68 


81 CM /L - 1418 

27 - 3 - 1967 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:MAY4,1968/VAISAKHA14,1890 


[No, MD / 33 16 / A ]. 
Dr. ) A . K . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director -General 


2152 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


(PART II 


(Department of Industrial Development ) 

Indian Standards Institution 

New Delhi, the 23rd April 1968 
S . O . 1594 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under gub - regulation ( ) of 
regulation 3 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955, as 
Amended from time to time, modifications to the provisions of the Indian Standard , details of 
which are mentioned in tho Schedule given hereafter , høve teptētively been made with a view 
to provide an additional size of tea - cheste , without in any way affecting the quality of goods. 
covered by the relevant standards : 

THE SCHEDULE 


Sl. No. and Title of Indian Stan - Particulars 
No, dard , the provisions of which of the exist- 
have been modified 

ing provi 

sions 


Particulars of the modifica - Date from 
tions made to the pro - which the 
visions 

modifications 
shall come 
into force 


IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for Clause 5 . I 

plywood tea- chests ( second and Tablo 
Tevision ) . 


I . 


An additional gizc of tea Immediate 
chests , namely of 40 x 50 effect . 

x 60 cm dimensions has 
beep included in clause 
5 . I with resultant addi 
tionsin table I (Draft 
Amendment No . 2 ). 

INo. MD 13 / ] 
(Dr) A . N . GHOSH . 

Director General. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 

( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 20th April 1968 
9 . O . 1595. - - In exercise ofthe powers conferred by the proviso to article 3c9 of the Conti12 - 
tion , the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Mangalcre Hertcut 
Project (Clase III and Class IV posts) Recruitment Rules , 1966 , published with the notifcaticn 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Transport end Aviation , Icpartir ( It of 
Transport, Shipping and Tourism ( Transport Wing ) No 5 -PE (4 )/64 dated the zoth Jare , 15€6 , 
namely : 
1 . ( 1) These rules may be called the Mapgalore Harbour Profect (Class III and Class IV 

posts ) Recruitment Amendment Rules , 1968 , 
(2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette . 

2 . In the Schedule to the Mangalore Harbour Project ( Class III and Class IV posts ) Recruit 
ment Rules, 1966 - 

(a ) under the Heading " Part I : Class III posts : 
(1) in serial number II " Draftsman Grade I” , for the entries in columns 10 and 11, the 

following antries shall be substituted namely : 
Column 10 

Column II 
" By promotion falling which bytransfer and failing (a ) Promotion : Draftsman Grade II having 
both by deputation . 

a minimum of thrce years service in the 

grade. 
(6 ) Transfer Deputation : Persons working 

in similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Government/ State Government/ 
Deptts . (Period of deputation ordinarily 

not exceeding three years . 
( 11) in serial number 12 " Head Draftsman /Chief Draftsman /Chief Estimator " for the 
eatrles in columos IO and II, the following entries shall be substituted namely : 
Column 10 

Column II 
" By promotion failing which by transfer and failing ( a ) Promotion : Draftsman Grade I having 
both by deputation . 

a minimum of 10 years service in the grade. 
(6 ) Transfer Deputation : Perso88 working 
in similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Govt /State Government Depart 
monts . (Period of deputation ordinarily 
not to exceed 3 years) . 


Seo . 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2153 


(ül) in Serialnumber 13 " Section Officer ( Civil/Mechanical ) Electrical furthe (71 cs. 

in columns 10 and 11 , the following entries shall be substituted namely : 
Column 10 

Column II 
By promotion i uilingwhich bytransfer and failing ( a ) Promotion : Draftstrian Grado II with 
both by direct recruitment. 

three years service in the grade. 
(6 ) Transfer : Persone working in similar 

or equlvalent grades in other Central 
Government/State Government De 

partments . 
(iv ) in Serlal number 14 " Assistant Marine Surveyor " , for the entries in counS 10 

and 11 , the following entries shall be substituted , nørrely : 
Column Io 

Column II 
“ By promotion failingwhich by transferand failing ( a ) Promotion : Draftsman Grade II with 
both by direct recrutment. 

three years service in the grade. 
(6 ) Transfer : Persons working in similar 

or equivalent grades in other Central 
Government/State Government Depart 

ments . 
(v ) in Serialnumber 15 “ Tunior Marlac Surveyor " , for the entrice in columns 1o And If 

the following entries shall be substituted namely 
Column IO 

Column II 
" By direct recruitment failing which by transfer Transfer Depuration : Perscos aciking in 
and failing both by deputation . 

similar or equiva ent grades in other 
Central Government/ State Governments, 
Departments . (Period of deputation ordi 

narily not to exceed 3 years) . 
(vi) in Serial number 16 " Cameraman " for theentries in columns to and II , the follcwing : 
entries shall be substituted namely : 
Column 10 

Columin II 
" By direct recruitment failing which by transfer Transfer Deputation : Persons working in 
and failing both by deputation . 

similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Government/State Govt. (Period 
of deputation ordinarily not to exceed : 

threc years ). 
(vl ) in Serial No. 18 " Electrician - cum - Echo Sounder Mechanic " for the entries itt : 
columns 10 and 11 , the following entries shall te substituted , namely : 
Column Io 

Column II 
" By directu cruitmont failing which by transfer Transfer Deputation : Persong working in 
and failing both by deputation , 

similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Government/ State Government 
Departments . (Period of deputation ordi 

Darily not to exceed 3 years ). 
( viil) in Serial No . 19 " Scientific Assistant" , for the entries in colurns to and 11, te 

following entries shall be substituted , namely : 
Column IO 

Column II 
“ By direct recruitment failing which by trasfer Transfer Defutariin : Persons working in 
and falling both by deputation . 

similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Government/State Government 
Departments . (Period of Deputation 

ordinarily not to exceed 3 years ). 
( x ) In SerialNo. 20 " Senior Observer ” , for the entriesin columns to and I1, the follow . 
ing entries shall be 8. butituted namely : 
Column to 

Column 11 
" By direct recruitment failing which by transfer and Transfer /Doputation : Persons working in 
failng both by deputation " . 

similar or equivalent grades in other 
Central Government/State Government 
Departments . ( Period of deputation 
ordinarily not to cxceed 3 yeats ) . 


2154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


[PART II 


(x ) after serial a lmber 21 and the entries relating thereto 


Ro, 


22 . Compounder 

cum - Clerk , 


I General 

Civil 
Service 
Claes III 
Non 
Gazetted 
Non 
Ministerial. 


130 - -- 5 -- 175 
- EB .. 
205 — 7 -- 212 
- EB - - 7 - - 240 


Do, 


-23 . Auxiliary 

Nurse Midwife . 


Rs . 
150 — 5 — 175 – 
6 - 205 - B 
7 - 240-- - 8 - - 
256 / EB8 
- 280 


. 24 . Chemist 


I 


Do. 


. . 


Rs. 210 - - 10 
- 290 - - 15 
320 - - EB 
15 -- 425 


Min . 20 Matriculation : or 
Max . 30 equivalent quali 

fication , 
(i) Compounding test . 
( ii) Must be eligible for 

registration under 
Section 31 (c ) or 
section 32 of the 

Pharmacy Act, 1948 . 
Do. 

(1) Matriculation or 

equivalent quali 

fication . 
(li) Government cer 
tificate in nursing 
with 3 years ex 

perience . 
(ili) Quellfied in 

midwifery . 
Min . 22 (1) B . Sc. in chemistry . 
Max . 30 

( ii) Experience in 

analysis of inorganic 
compounds parti 
cularly in materials 
used in Clvil Engla 
eering such as Ce 
ment , Ilme, soll, 

water , gowage. 
Min . 21 An engineer s certi 
Max . 40 ficate under the In 

land Steam Vessels 
Act, 1917 or oquiva 
lent with 3 years 
experience in simi 
lar capacity . Must 
be capable of carry 
ing out repairs to 
machincry indepen 
dently . 


25 . Driver Grade 

I 


I 


General Ci- Rs, 210 
vil Service 10 - 290 
Class III 15 - 320 
Non -Gazet 
ted Minister 


ial, 


- 26 . Driver Grade 


2 


Do. 


.. 


Do. 


Re. 130meg 

- 170 - EB 
64205 
7 - 212 


An Engineer s Certi 

ficate granted un 
der Inland Steam 
Vessel Act, 1917, Or 
equivalent with I 
years experience in 
similar capacity . 
Must be capable of 
carrying out repairs 
to machinery inde 

pendently . 
Posşcoging Masters 

Certificate under the 
Inland Steam Ves 
sels Act, 1917 or 
equivalent with 3 
years experience in 
similar capacity . 


: 27 . Serange 

Grade I. 


.. . 


Do. 


General 
Civil Ser - 
vices Non - 
Gazetted 
Clage III. 


Rs. 210 — 

10 - 290 
15 320 


Seo 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1968 / VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


2155 


the following shall be inserted namely 


- 


( 11 ) 


(12) 


(13) 


N . A . 


2 years 


As 


per 


rules . 


By direct rec - 
ruitment falling 
which by 
transfer and 
failing both by 
deputation , 


Transfor /Doputation : 

Persons working in 
similar or equivalent 
grades in other 
Central Govt ./State 
Govt . Departments 
(Period of deputation 
ordinarily not to 
exceed 3 years ) 


N . A . 


2 years 


Do. 


Do. 


N . A . 


2 years 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


N . A . 


2 years 


Do . 


By promotion 
failing which 
by direct roc 
ruitment and 
falling both 
by transfer/ de 
putation . 


Promotion : From Class III 

among suitable Dri- DPC 
vers Grade II working 
in the project with 
5 years experience. 
Transfer / Deputa 
tion : Persons work 
ing in similar or 
cquivalent grades in 
other Central Govt / 
State Govt . Deptts . 
(Period of deputa 
don ordinadly not 
to exceed 3 years .) 


2 years 


om in 


Do. 


By direct rec - 
ruitineat fall 
ing which by 
transfer and 
failing both by 
doputation . 


Transfor deputation : 

Persons working in 
similar or equivalent 
grades in other Cen 
tralGovt . /State Govt . 
Deptte . (Period of 
deputation ordina 
rily not to exceed 3 
years ). 


N .A . 


2 years 


DO 


Class III 


Do 


By promotion 
failing which 
by direct tec 
ruitment and 
falling both by 
transfer . 


Promotion : From among Class III 

suitablo Sorange DPC . 
Gr. II working in 
the Project with 4 
years experience 
as Serango Gr. II . 
Transfor : Persons 
working in similar or 
oqulvalant grades 
in Central Govt. / 
State Govt. Deptts , 


- 2166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4, 1988 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1800 


[PART II 


Rs . 


.28. Serang Grade 

II . 


2 


, . 


General 

Civil 
Service 
Non 
Gazetted 
Class III. 


130 - 5 - 175 - 
EB - 6 
205 - 7 
212 . 


Min . 21 
Max . 40 


Possessing Master s 

Certificate Funder 
the Inland Steam 

Vessels \ Act , 1917 
Of cquivalent with 

I year s experience . 


- 29. Driver 


H 


General Rs. 150 - 5 - 175 - . . . Min . 18 
Civil Ser- 6 - 205- EB 
vice Non - 7 - 240 . 
Gazetted 
Class III 
Non 
Ministerial. 


(1) Must be literato 
(11 ) Must have passed 
Trade Test in 
Driving or must 
be able to ( I ) Work 
underwater for at 
least 30 mts . below 
surface , ( 2 ) Sling 
sunken craft and 
recover lostmaterial 
from underwater , (3 ) 
give a clear sketch 
of underwater da 
mage to Ships and 
crafts , (4 ) Super 
vise and overhaul 
of diving Pumps 
helmet and other 
diving gear, (5 ) To 
deal with explosive 
underwater (6 ) 
Maintenance and 
upkeep of diving 

equipment. 
Note : Persons with 
experience in similar 
capacity in the 
Indian Navy will 
be preferred , 


(6 ) Under the heading Part II Class IV Posts " after serial number 6 and the entries relating 
7. Dock band & Gentral R8.75 - 1 - 80 . . . Min . 21 Experience 

Civil Ser EB - 2 - 95 . Max . 40 in similar 
vice Non 

capacity 
Gazetted 

28 Deck 
Class IV . 

band , 


SEC . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14, 1890 


: 2157 


II 


12 


I3 


13 


N . A . 


2 years 


As per rules . 


Class III 
DPC 


N . A . 


By direct recruit - Transfer /Deputation : 
mnent failing Persong working in 
which transfer similar or equivalent 
and failing both grades in other 
by deputation . Central Govt ./State 

Govt . Deptta , (Perlod 
of deputation ordi 
narily not to exceed 

3 years ). 
By direct re- Transfer / Deputation : 

cruitment fail Persons working in 
ing which by similar or cquivalent 
transfer and grades in other central 
failing both by Govt. State Govt , 
deputation . Deptta . (Period of 

deputation ordinarily 
not to exceed three 
years ). 


2 years 


Do . 


Do. 


thereto , the following shall be inserted namely : 
6 months By direct re 

cruitment . 


[No. P.5-PE (35)/ 67 .) 
P . L . GUPTA , Under Secy, 


2158 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 4 , 1968 /VAISAKHA 14 , 1890 


(PART II – Sec. ( li 


rectoping, No (1967 and intimaterthe scales 


(Directorate General of Shipping) 

ORDER 

Bombay, the 24th April 1968 
9 . o . 1596 . - In pursuance of note ( 3 ) of the schedule to the notifcation of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Transport and Shipping relating to scales . 
of provision for seamen , No. S . O . 2169 , dated 21st June, 1967 and in furtherance 
of the order of the Director General of Shipping, No . 9 (21) / CRA / 67, dated the 
24th October , 1967, I , K , C . Madappa , Director General of Shippine , hereby order 
that for a further period of six months with effect from the date of publication 
of this order , the total dally scale of cereal rations of 570 grams shall stand 
amended to 350 grams rice and 170 grams wheat, if procurement is made in India . 

2 . As a compensation for the reduction of 50 grams in the rice rations, the 
scale of other items shall be increased per day as under for each unit of 25 grams: - - 

10 grams of fresh Ash , or 
B grams of meat, or 
50 grams of dry vegetables , of 
25 grams of fresh vegetables. 

[No. 9 ( 21 ) / CRA / 67.1 

K . C . MADAPPA , 
Director General of Shipping 


PRINTED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1968 


