D. 


gift z ftc M 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
No. 43]! NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1956 


NOTICE 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 20th October 

1956 


Issue 

No. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

290A. 

S.R.Q. 2218A, dated the 3rd 
October, 1956. 

Office of the Col- 
lector of Customs 
and Central ex- 
cise Pondicherry. 

Certain directions issued to 
ell manufacturers of soap 
under the Central Excise 
Rules, 1944 in the State of 
Pondicherry. 

299 

S.R.O. 2320, dated the nth 
October, 19J6. 

Ministry of Com- 
merce and Consumer 
Industries. 

The Central Government 

declares that Section 15 
of the Forward Contracts 
(Regulation) Act, 1952 shall 
apply to castorseed in the 
State of Hyderabad. 


S.R.O. 2321, dated the nth 
October, 1956. 

Dino. 

The Central Government 

grants recognition to the 
Hyderabad Oils and Seeds 
Exchange, Ltd., Hyderabad 
in respect of forward con- 
tracts in castorseed. 

300 

S.R.O. 2322, dated the nth 
October, 1956. 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast- 
ing. 

The Central Government 

certifies a film to be of the 
description Specified in the 
Schedule. 

301 

S.R.O, 2323, dated the nth 
October, 1956. 

Ministry of Finance. 

The Central Government speci- 
fies certain securities as ap- 
proved securites for the pur- 
pose of Insurance Act, 1938. 

302 

S.R.O. 2324, dated the 15th 
October, 1956. 

Ministry of Finance. 
(Department of re- 
venue.) 

The Central Government 

exempts certain goods from 
the customs duty leviable 
thereon under the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 or the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1934. 

303 

S.R.O. 2372, dated the 17th 
October, 1956. 

Ditto. 

The Central Government 

exempts Boap of all kinds 
from the customs duty 
leviable thereon under the 
Central Excise Rules, 1944 
in the State of Pondicherry. 


( 1757 ) 


1758 THE 1 GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1950 (Paj^JI— S ic. ^ 


Issue 

No 

No, and date 

Issued by 

Subject 

304 

S.R.O. 2373 , dated 
October, 1956 . 

the 

17 th 

Ministry of Law. 

Amendments made in the 
Representation of the 

People (Preparation of 

Electoral RoIIb) Rules, 

1956. 

3°5 

S.R.O. 2374 , dated 
October, 1956 . 

the 

17 th 

Ministry of Informa- 
tion and Broadcast 
ing. 

The Central Government 

certifies certain films to be 
of the description specified 
in the Shedul;. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above wilt be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi. Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes. 


PART H— Section 3 

Statutory Rules and Orders Issued by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and Central Authoritlse 
(other than the Chief Commissioners). 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi-2, the 15 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2387. — In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian Administrative Service 
fRecruitment) Rules, 1954, the Central Government, in consultation with the 
State Governments and the Union Public Service Commission, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the Indian Administrative Service (Appointment by 
Competitive Examination) Regulations, 1955, namely: — 

In regulation 4 of the said Regulations: — 

(1) For condition (i), the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“(i) Nationality .- — He must be a citizen of India.” 

(2) In condition (ii). in the first Proviso, for the word “three”, the word 
‘‘five” shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with 
effect from the 2nd Februury, 1956. 


[No. 13/9/50-AIS (III) .] 

S.R.O. 2388. — In pursuance of rule 7 of the Indian Police Service (Recruit- 
ment) Rules, 1954, the Central Government, in consultation with the State 
Governments and the Union Public Service Commission, hereby makes the, follow- 
ing amendments in the Indian Police Service (Appointment by Competitive 
Examination) Regulations, 1955, namely: — 

In regulation 4 of the said Regulations — 

(1) For condition (i), the following shall be substituted, namely: — 

"(i) Nationality . — He must be a citizen of India.” 

(2) In condition (11), in the first Proviso, for the words “three” the word 
"five” shall be substituted and shall be deemed to have been substituted with 
effect from the 2nd February, 1956. 


[No. 13/lO/50-AIS(in).J 

New Delhi-2, the 16 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2389,— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Government, 
after consultation with the Governments of the States concerned, hereby makes 




Part 




c, 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 


1759 


the following amendment in the Indian Police Service (Probation) Rules, 1954 
namely:— 

For rule 14 of the said Rules, the following rule, shall be substituted, namely:— 
“14. Travelling allowance,— A. probationer shall, in respect of a journey 
which he may be required to perform, be entitled to such travelling allowances 
as may be admissible to a member of the Service — - 

(i) on tour, if the journey is- — 

(a) in connection with his training; or 

(b) for attendance at any examination during the period of probation; 

and 

(ii) on transfer, if the journey is for proceeding to the station to which he 

is posted after the final Examination.” 


[No. 13/5/56-AIS(III).] 

S.R.O. 2390. — In cx-rc’sc of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the All India Services Ac 1 , 1951 (61 of 1951), the Central Govern- 
ment, after consultation with the G( comments of the States concerned, hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Indian Administrative Service (Proba- 
tion) Rules, 1951, namely: — • 

For rule 14 of the said Rules, the following rule shall be substituted, 
namely; — 

“14-TrrvclHvg c'.loivancc , — A Probe tic .rev shall, in respect of a journey 
which he may be ioqiiuc-1 le perform, b" entitled to such travelling allowances 
as may be ndmis'ible to a member of the Service— 

(i) on tour, if the journey is — 

(a) in connection with his training; or 

(b) for attendance at any examination during the period of probation; 

and 

(ii) on transfer, if the journey is for proceeding to the station to which 

ho is posted after the final Examination.” 


[No. 13/5/56-AlS(IIl).] 
P. PR AB 1 1 ANAR RAO, Dy. Secy, 


New Delhi-2, the lGth October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2391.— In exercise of th~ p:wcr-- conferred by sections 17 and 27 of tho 
Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely:— 

In Schedule VII to the said Rules, the entries relating to item (9) shall 
be omitted. 

[No. 15/15/5G-Policc-(IV).] 
New Delhi-2, the 17 th October 1956 

Arms B Act 23 187 T T fVT X «f Cl ll 7 R( Powers conferred by section 17 of the Indian 
Arms Act (XI of 1878), the Central Government hereby makes the fol- 

lowing further amendment to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, namely: — 

it and 6 of the entries in column 1 of the table subjoined to Schedule 

of India®, namely — hS followms shaI1 be added aiter tho words ‘land frontiers 

“ and ^achar^Hills °L Assam”’ Lakhlmpur - and United Mikir and North 

[No. 29/10/56-Police. IV.] 

New Delhi-2, the 20 th October. 1956 

Armf/St STxt ofTnlfn P ? W ? r £ conferred by section 27 of the Indian 

Arms act, (ai oi 1878), the Central Government hereby exempts His Mnipstv 

the Emperor of Ethiopia and entourage of 21 members Trom The operation ot 


IXE GAZJffrra or worn, QCTQBBP 27, 18M [Part H— Sec. 3 


l?6o 


the prohibitions and directions contained in sections 6, 10 and 13 — 15 of the 
said Act, in respect of the arms and ammunition possessed by them, during the 
course of their forthcoming visit to this country. 


[No. 17/14/56-Police (IV).] 
C. P. S. MENON, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 17 th October 1950 

S.R.O. 2394. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 10, section 17, and 
aection 27 of the Indian Arms Act, 1878 (XI of 1878), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Indian Arms Rules, 1951 
namely: — , 

In the Table in Schedule III to the said Rules — 

After item (3) the following item shall be added, namely: — 


I 

2 3 

(4) Arms and ammunition specified in clause 
(aJ(.yOii) ofrule 7 imported by foreign Con- 
sular Officers In India. 

Such arms and ammunition shall not Do. 
be transferred to anyone in India for 
consideration or otherwise. 


[No. F. 17/12/66-PoliceIV.] 
J. N. DHAMIJA, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi- 2 , the 18 th October 1950 

S.R.O. 2395. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1950, 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified In column 1 
of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Patiala and East Pun- 
jab States Union the functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect Ol 
the area specified against him In the entry in column 2 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


I 

Designation of the Officer} 

2 

Area 

1. Tahsildar, Nalagarh . 

2. Tahsildar, Kandaghat . . 

. Nalagarh Tahsil. 

. (0 Kandaghat Tahsil ; and 

(it) Chadiala, Amlala, Baroli, Karkaur, Isapur 
(Pragpur), Sanoli, Ramgarh, Madhopur (Dera- 
Bassl), Kuranwala and Janetpur Patwar Circles of 
Dera Bassi Qanungo circle in Rajpura Tahsil. 

3. Tahsildar, Rajpura 

. (1) Rajpura Tahsil [excluding part under charge of 

Tahsildar Kandaghat at item 2 (it) above]; and 
(it) Rajfmr Qanungo circle (excluding Karanpur, Pur, 
Sanaur, Bolar Kalan, Bhankar, Fatehpur Raj- 
putan and Behai Patwar Circles) in Patiala Tahsil. 

4. Tahsildar, Sirhind 

. Sirhind Tahsil. 

5. Tahsildar, Patiala 

. Patiala Tahsil [excluding part under charge of Tahsildar 
Rajpura at item 3(11) above. ] 

6. Tahsildar, Nabha 

. Nabha Tahsil. 

7, Tahsildar, Sangnir 

. Sangrur Tahsil. 

8. Tahsildar, Narwana 

. Narwana Tahsil. 

9. Tahsildar, Jind 

. Jind Tahsil. 

lo. Tahsildar, Dadri . 

(i) Dadri Tahsil ; and 

(it) Bhagot and Siana Patwar Circles in Kanina 
Qanungo circle in Mahendargar Tahsil. 







Past II-4sfcc. 13 ] THE • GAitETTE OE &WHA, OCTOBER 27, B890 


17 ®* 


i 


2 


XI, Tahsildar, Mahendfagaih 

12. Tahsildar, Naraaul 

13. Tahsildar, Kapurthala 

14. Tahsildar, Phagwara . 


13. Tahsildar, Faridkot 

16. Tahsildar, Bhatinda . 

17. Tahsildar, Mansa 

18. Tahsildar, Malerkotla . 


19. Tahsildar, Barnala 


Mahendragarh Tahsll (excluding Pat war circles Bhagot 
and Siana). _ 

Narnaul Tahsil. 

Kapurthala Tahsil (excluding Kapurthala No, 3 Qanungo 
drclc), 

(1) Phagwara Tahsil; and j 

(it) Kapurthala No, 3 Qanungo circle in Kapurthala 
Tahsil. 

Faridkot Tahsil. 

Bhatinda Tahsil. 

Mansa Tahsil. 

(i) Malerkotla Tahsil ; and 

(1 i) Mahal Kalan Qanungo Circle (excluding Kutba, 
Dadahur, Nihaluwal, Shebazpur, Johlan and Julal- 
diwal Patwar circles in Barnala Tahsil.) 

(i) Barnala Tahsil [excluding area at item 18 (it) above]; 
and 

(it) Phul and Dayalpura Bhaika Qanungo Circles in 
District Bhatinda. 


[No. 1O/3/50-1C.3 

S.R.O. 2396. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule (2) of the Citizenship Rules, 
1056, the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers Specified in 
column 2 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the' 
functions of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified 
against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the 
district mentioned in column 1 of the said Schedule. 


Schedule 

Name of the district 

Designation of the Officer 

Area 

1 

2 

3 


Lakhimpur . . . Sub-Deputy Collector, Dibru- Dibrugarh East Circle. 

garh East Circle 

Komrup . . . Sub-Deputy Collector, Kam- Kampur Circle 

pur Circle 

United Khaai & Jaintia Hills . Second Extra Assistant Com- Shillong Sub-Division 

missioner and Senior Sub- 
Deputy Collector, Shillong. 

Sub-Deputy Collector, Jowai. Jowal Sub-Division 


[No. 10/3/56-IC.] 

S.R.O. 2397. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 1950, 
the Central Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 
1 of the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Orissa the functions 
of the Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him 
in the corresponding entry In column 2 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Designation of die Officer 
x 


Area 

2 


District Rehabilitation Officer, Cuttack ..... Cuttack District. 

Additional Rehabilitation Officer, Cuttack ..... Do. 

District Rehabilitation Officer, Puri ...... Puri District. 

District Rehabilitation Officer, Bilaspore Balaspore District. 




Ij6l THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 [Part. II— Sec. 3 


I 

2 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Ganjam . 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Sambalpur . 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Mayurbhan) .... 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Dhcnkanal ..... 
Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Keonjhar ..... 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Kalahandi ..... 

Officer-in-Charge, Elections, Sundargarh 

Sub-Divisional Officer, Fhulbani ...... 

Commandant, CharbaUa Relief Camp, Cuttack 

Assistant Commandant, Charbatia Relief Camp, Cuttack 

Ganjam District. 

Sambalpur District. 
Mayurbhanj District. 
Dhcnkanal District. 
Keconjhar District. 

Kalahandi District. 
Sundargarh District. 
Baudh-Phul-banl District . 
Charbatia Relief Camp. 
Charbatia Relief Camp. 


[No. 10/3/56-(li)-IC.] 

New Delhi-2, the 20 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2398. — In pursuance of clause (b) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules, 
1956, the Central Government hereby appoints the officer specified in column 2 of 
the Schedule hereto annexed to perform in the State of Assam the functions of 
Collector under the said Rules in respect of the area specified against him in 
the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised within the district mentioned 
in column 1 of the said Schedule. 

Schedule 


Name of the District Designation of the Officer. 

I 2 

Area. 

3 

Cachar Additional District 

Magistrate, Cachar. 

Whole of the District 


[No. 10/3/50-IC.] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi-2, the 18th October 1956 

8Jt.O. 2399. — In the Schedule annexed to the Notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry at Home Affairs No. 10/3/56-IC, dated the 20th September, 
1956, published at pages 1070—1673 of the Gazette of India, Part II— Section 3, 
dated the 6th October, 1956, against the Cachar district, for the entry "R/Hj Offi- 
cer, Karimganj” in column 2 read “Assistant Relief and Rehabilitation Officer, 
Karimganj." 


[No, 10/3/56-1C.] 


New Delhi-2, the 22nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2400. — In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Home Affairs, S.R.O, No. 1574, published in the Gazette of India Extraodinary, 
Part II— Section 3 of the 7th July, 1956 (No. 204), in column 2 of Form X of 
Schedule I to the Citizenship Rules, 1956, for the words “Full name of applicant 
and address” read “Full name of minor and address”. 

[No. F.2/27/56-I.J 
FATEH SINGH, Dy, Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 23 rd October 1950 

S.R.O. 2401. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 24 of the High 
Court Judges (Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 (28 of 1954), the Central Gov- 
ernment hereby makes the following Rules, namely: — 

1. These Rules may be called the High Court Judges (Part A States) Travelling 
Allowance Rules, 1956. 



PART ir— S ec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1950 1763 


2. (1) When a Judge travels on duty, he is entitled— 

(a) when travelling by railway, to a reserved two-berth compartment of 
the highest class including air-eonditioned, and if one such compart- 
ment is not available then to a reserved four-berth compartment of 
the highest class (but excluding air-conditioned) and the fares at 
lowest class rates actually paid for servants not exceeding two in 
number; 


(b) when travelling by a steamer service, to one reserved flrst-class cabin, 
if available, or to the fare actually paid for himself, and the fares 
at lowest class rates actually paid to the steamer service for servants 
not exceeding two in number subject to usual deductions on account 
of messing charges; 


<c) when travelling by a public air transport service, to the fare paid for 
himself and, if actually paid, the cost of transporting up to two 
maunds of luggage by rail at passenger rates or steamer and the 
railway or steamer fares of the lowest class for servants not ex- 
ceeding two in number, and the expenditure actually incurred on 
the transport by road of servants or luggage upto a maximum of 8 
annas per mile of that part of the journey by road for which no 
allowance is claimed under clause (d) of this sub-rule; 

<d) when travelling by road, to an allowance at the rate of Re. 1 per mile; 

Provided that — 

(i) no such allowance shall be payable, in respect of that portion of a 
journey by road for which a public air transport service provides 
its own transport and the fare for which journey is inchided in 
the air fare paid under clause (c) for the air journey; 

til) no mileage allowance shall bei admissible for journeys undertaken 
within a radius of five miles from the residence of the Judge or 
for a journey between such residence or temporary residence and 
the place of sitting of the High Court or of a Bench of the High 

lYmrt* nnri & 


fill) where daily allowance is admissible and is claimed for any day no 
mileage allowance shall be admissible in addition in respect of any 
journey undertaken by road within a radius of five miles from, 
the temporary residence of the Judge at the place of halt; 

<iv) no such allowance shall be payable in cases where the Judge uses 
transport provided at Government expense. 

(e) to a daily allowance at the rate of Rs. 15 in respect of anv Deriod 
^^mafiquarhus"^^ 8 an< ^ other holidays) of halt on duty outside his 

Provided that — 

( 1 ) when a Judge is required to perform functions outside his normal 
duties m localities away from his headquarters he may, subject to 

SUC J\ C ^ 0n j di ) t i ° nS n 35 the ' Presldent ma 'y m each case determine, be 
gi anted dally allowance not exceeding Rs. 26 in respect of Ordinary 
localities and daily allowance not exceeding Rs. 30 and transport 
charges not exceeding Rs. 10 per day in respect of special Iv ex 
pensive localities, like Bombay, Calcutta or anv other l3ty so 
declared hereafter by the President; loranty so 

<ii) when a Judge is required to perform similar functions, whether 
part time or whole-time in his own headquarters, he, shall not be 

ex ra unlo3S , the <^1 work involves 

exxra expense in which ease he may be granted such allowance, 

determine^ 111 K ^ 25 per day aS the ^entmay in ScT case 

(ni) when a Judge is a State guest, the daily allowance shall be restricted 
to 25 per cent of the amount admissible or sanctioned, Cted 

(iv> Stosyg* Sett S h?£ r 

a'wrlM of halt ’iiiii,"'"'" to the “ l,,inl " rid treated a. 



1764 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, K>56 [Pari II— Skc- 3 


(f) to the expenditure, if any, actually incurred on the transport by 
passenger train or steamer at owner’s risk of a motor car, and the 
fare at lowest class rate actually paid to a railway or steamer service 
in respect of one driver or cleaner for the car. 

(2) If any persons (other than servants) accompany a Judge in a compart- 
ment or cabin reserved for him under sub-rule (1), fares shall be payable by 
him on their account, and the fares so paid shall, if full tariff rates have been 
paid by Government for the reserved accommodation, be credited to Government. 

(3) For the purposes of this rule— 

(i) all journeys to and from headquarters shall be deemed to commence 

and terminate at the Judge’s residence at headquarters or, as the 
case may be, at an out-station; 

(ii) a Judge shall be deemed to be travelling on duty when, during a 

vacation of the High Court, he proceeds from any place in India 
where he was spending the vacation for the purpose of doing duty 
in the High Court and returns to such place after completion of 
such duty. j 

3. (1) When a Government servant, appointed to be a Judge travels by 
railway to join his post, he may, at his option and in lieu of drawing travelling 
allowance under the ordinary rules governing a journey on transfer applicable 
to him, travel in a reserved compartment of the highest class, excluding air con- 
ditioned. 


(2) A Government servant availing himself of this concession must pay to 
Government the fare which he would have paid if no accommodation had been 
reserved, and must, in addition, pay in cash to the station master of the station 
from which the journey commences, the fares for any members' of his family 
accompanying him, whether they share him reserved accommodation or not. 
When Government pays full tariff rates for the accommodation, all such fares 
will be credited to Government. 


Explanation . — For purposes of rules 3, 4, 6 and 6 a reserved compartment 
means a two-berthed compartment or a four-berthed compartment if 
a two-berthed compartment is not available in the train by which 
a Judge travels. 

T j 4, ^ hen a P erson not already in Government service Is appointed to be a 
Judge, he may, when travelling by railway to join his post, travel in a reserved 
compartment of the highest class, excluding air conditioned and subject to the 
conditions prescribed in sub-rule (2) of rule 3. 

5. When a Judge — 

(a) proceeds on, or returns from, leave or 

(b) proceeds on, or returns from, vacation spent outside India, or 

(c) retires from service, or 

(d) proceeds to join another post after resigning office, 

he may when travelling in a railway, travel in a reserved compartment of the 
highest class, excluding air conditioned and subject to the conditions prescribed 
in sub-rule (2) of rule 3; 


Provided that in the case of a journey on retirement from service this 
entitlement will lapse if the journey is not completed within six 
months from the date of retirement. 


6. When a Judge is transferred from one High Court to another, or from or 
to to® P^ce of the principal seat of the High Court to or from a place where a 
Bench of the High Court is permanently located he shall be entitled to the ex- 
penditure actually incurred by him on his journey for the transport of— 

(a) when travelling by rail or by steamer— 

(i) the Judge, himself, by a reserved compartment or cabin of the 

highest class, excluding air conditioned; 

(ii) members of his family not travelling in the reserved compartment 

conditioned^ thS “ shest class oi accommomation excluding air 



Part II— I-8ec. 8 ] THE OAOTOTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1-950 1765 


(b) when travelling by road — 

(i) the Judge himself at the rate of Rs. 20 per mile; ^ ^ 

(ii) for Overy member of his family accompanying him upto a maximum 

of four members at the rate of 8 annas per mile: 

Provided that when any portion of the journey can be preformed by 
railway, the allowance claimed in respect of that portion shall 
not exceed the amount admissible had the Judge and the members 
of his family travelled on such portion by railway by thei highest 
class, excluding air-conditioned. 

(c) when travelling by air, the Judge himself and the members of his 

family by a public air transport service; 

(d) personal servants, not exceeding four in number, by passenger train or 

steamer or by public road transport service at lowest class rates; 

(e) one motor car, by passenger train or steamer at owner’s risk; and 

(f) other personal effects, not exceeding the expenditure which would be 

incurred in the transport of 60 maunds of goods by road and by 
goods train or steamer, and the expenditure incurred in embarking 
and disembarking such personal effects. 

Explanation. — For the purpose of this rule, members of a Judge’s family means 
his wife, his children and his step-children, normally residing with 
and wholly dependent on him, 

7. Where by reason of a change in the principal seat of the High Court a 
Judge, changes his ordinary place of residence, he is entitled to the same allow- 
ances as on transfer from one High Court to another. 

8. Repeal and Savings. — (1) The High Court Judges (Part A States) Travelling 
Allowance Rules, 1950, are hereby repealed. 

(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, nothing contained in these rules shall have- 
effect so as to give to a Judge who is serving as such at the commencement of 
these rules less favourable terms in respect of his travelling and daily allowances 
than those to which he would be entitled if these rules had not been made,. 


[No. U/45/55-Judl.I.] 
M. GOPAL, MENON, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 

(To be substituted for the Notification bearing the same number & date) 

S.R.O. 2402. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) of section 4 
Of the Foreign Jurisdiction Act, 1947, and of all other powers enabling in this 
behalf, the Central Government hereby orders that the President of the Permanent 
Commission of the Representative Assembly Pondicherry shall receive a remunera- 
tion of Rs. 200/- per month, with effect from 26th August, 1955 in addition to the 
salary and allowances admissible to him as Member of the Representative 
Assembly, Pondicherry, vide this Ministry’s Notification No. S.R.O. (F.10-103/68- 
GP) [FJA-4(1)] dated the 2nd January, 1956. 


[No. 597/56-Eur.E.J 
F, M. De MELLO KAMATH, Under Secy. 


1766 THE' GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1958' 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE & CONSUMER INDUSTRIES 

New Delhi, the 19 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2403. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential 
'Commodities Act, 1956 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Cotton Textiles (Control) Order, 1948, 
namely: — 

In the said Order, in sub-clause (3) of clause 12, for the figures, letters 
and word “31st August, 1956”, the figures, letters and word “30th 
November, 1956” shall be substituted. 

[No. 9(13)Tex.(C)/56.] 
M. S. SADASIVAN, Under Secy. 


(Indian Standards Institution) 


New Delhi, the 17 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 3404. — In pursuance of sub-regulations (2) and (3) of regulation 3 of the Indian 
Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955, the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifies that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given fn the Schedule hereto 
annexed, hare been established during the period 1st to 15 October 1956. 


The Scheduli 


No. and title of the 

SI. No. and title of the Indian Standards Indian Standard Brief particulars 

No. established or Standards, if 

any, superseded 
by the new In- 
dian Standard 

(1) CO (3) (4) 


1 IS ‘.554-195; Specification for Pipe 
Threads for Gas List Tubes and 
Screwed Fittings (Tentative) 


IS :640-I9s 6 Specification for Ready 
Mixed Red Oxide Paint for Hes- 
sian Colour Unspecified) 


This standard covers dimensions 
and tolerances of pipe threads 
of gas list tubes an well as 
those of cocks, valves and olhex 
fittings to be connected with 
gas list tubes where pressure 
tight joints are made on the 
thread of nominal £ sizes to 6 in 
inclusive. Both taper to taper 
and parallel to taper joints 
arc covered in this standard. 
(Price Rs. 2/-). 

ThiB standard covers the require- 
ments and the methods of test 
for the material commercially 
known as ready mixed paint, 
red oxide, intended for paint- 
ing the hessian backing of sheet 
linoleum. (Price Re. 1/-). 



VaAi II-D3fit. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1 B 5 B 1767 


CD 


( 2 ) 


3 18:870-1956 Specification lor Ready 

Mjxed Paint j Brushing, Finishing, 
Egg Shell Gloss, for Interior Use, 
to Indian Standard Colours 
No. 101 Sky Blue No. 219 Sage Green 
No. 216 Eau-de- No. 275 Opaline 
N 1 1 Green 

No. ?I7 Sea No. 281 Apple 
Green Green 

4 18:871-1956 Specification for Ready 

Mired Paint, Brushing, Finishing, 
Egg Shell Gloss, for Interior Use, 
to Indian Standard Colours 

Class A Class B 

Mo. 218 Grass No. 221 Brilliant 

Green green 

5 IS :872-i9j6 Specification for Ready 

Allred Paint, Brushing, Finishing, 
Egg Shell Gloss, for Interior Use, 
to Indian Standard Colours 

Mo. 412 Dark No. 413 Nut Brown 
Brown 


(3) (4) 


1 


These three standards cover the 
requirements and the methods 
of tests for the material com- 
mercially known as ready 
mixed paints, brushing, finish- 
ing, egg shell gloss, for 
internal use, to Indian Stand- 
ard Colours, These paints are 
used fur protection and de- 
coration of wood or steel work 
of interior of buildings and 
especially coaching stock where 
egg shell gloss finish and 
quick drying characteristics are 
specifically required, and are 
normally applied as painting 
system over primer. (Price 
Rc. i/- each). 


J 


Copies of ill these standards arc available for 
19, University Road, Delhi-8. 


sale with the Indian Standards Institution, 
Lal C. VekMAN, Director. 


[ No. MDC/ii( 4 )J 
VIDYA PRAKASH, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17 th October 1956 

S.R.O, MOB /IDRA/18G/12/56. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951 (65 of 1951), the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendment in the Cement 
Control Order, 1956, namely: — 

For sub-clause (1) (b) of clause 3 of the said Order, the following shall be 
substituted, namely: — 

"(b) the entire quantity of cement which may be produced by him during 
a period of 2 years from the date of commencement of this Order, 
except such quantities as may be mutually agreed upon from time 
to time between him and the Government;" 

This amendment shall be deemed to have taken effect from the first day of 
July 1956. 

[No. Cem-8 (400) /56.] 
G. RAMANATHAN, Dy. Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 15 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2406/IDRA/6/6/Am.(2). — In the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry No. S.R.O. 661 dated the 24th March 1955, 
published in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary dated the 
25th March, 1955, 

For “Shri A. R. Narasimhan, General Superintendent, Travancore- 
Cochin Chemicals Ltd , Udyogmandal P.O., T. C. State (S, India).” 



TRE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, IflOT 


[Pabt IP-Skc. 3 


1768 


Read “Shri A, R. Narasimhan, Cork Manager, Hindustan Insecticides, 
Nazafgarh Road, New Delhi.” 

[No. 5(21)IA(GB)/50.] 
R. N. KAPUR, Under Secy. 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi , the 23rd October 1950 

S.R.O. 2407/ESS.COMM/IRON & STEEL-15(1) & 27(I)/AM(3) (Corr.).— In 

the Notification of thei Government of India in the Ministry of Heavy Industries, 
No. IS(A)-2(172)/50, dated the 24th September 1950, published as S.R.O. No. 
2207 /ESS.COMM/ IRON & STEEL-15(1) & 27(I)/AM(3), in the Gazette of India, 
Part II — Section 3, dated the 29th September 1950, 

For the words “1st August 1950” occurring in para 2 of the Conditions for 
Sale, I-General, read “29th September, 1956.” 

[No. IS(A)-2(172)/60.] 
P. S. V. RAGHAVAN, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE ' 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2408. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 52 Agricultural 
Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1950 (28 of 1950), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules;— 

CHAPTER I 
Preliminary 

1. Short title. — These rules may be called the Agricultural Produce (Develop- 
ment & Warehousing) Corporations Rules, 1950. 

2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires— 

(a) “Act” means the Agricultural Produce (Development & Warehousing) 

Corporations Act, 1956; 

(b) “Board” means the National Co-operative Development and Warehousing 

Board, established under section 3 of the Act; 

(c) "Central Warehousing Corporation” means the Central Warehousing 

Corporation, established under section 17 of the Act; 

(d) "Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board; 

(e) “Executive Committee” means the Executive Committee of the Board 

or of the Central Warehousing Corporation, as the case may be; 

(f) “Form” means a form appended to these rules; 

(g) “Member” means a member of the Board; 

(h) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Board; 

(i) “Section” means a section of the Act; 

(j) "Vice-Chairman” means the Vice-Chairman of the Board. 

CHAPTER II 
The Board 

3. Representatives of the Central Government on the Board. The Central 

Government shall nominate the following persons as its representatives on the 
Board under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 3: — 

(i) The Minister for Food and Agriculture, Central Government. 

(ii) The Secretary, Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Government of 

India. 

(iii) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co-operation in the Ministry of 

Food and Agriculture, Government of India, 

(iv) The Financial Adviser to. the Ministry of Food & Agriculture. 

(v) A representative of the Ministry of Finance (Economic Affairs Depart- 

ment). 

(vl) A representative of the Ministry of Production. 






1770 


■he Gazette of india, October 27, 1950 


[Past II — Sic. 3 


11. Nomination of members to the Executive Committee. — The Central Gov- 
ernment shall nominate the following persons to the Executive Committee of 
the Board under section 10: — 

(i) The Joint Secretary in charge of Co-operation, Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture, Government of India; 

(ii) The financial Adviser to the Ministry of Food and Agriculture on the 

Board; 

(iii) The representative of the Ministry of Production or of the Planning 

Commission on the Board. 

12. Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee. — The Vice Chairman of the 
Executive Committee shall be nominated by the Central Government, 

13. Resignation by non-official members of the Executive Committee. — A non- 
official member of tile Executive Committee may resign liis office as such mem- 
ber of the Executive Committee by writing under his head addressed to the 
Secretary and such resignation shall to effective from the date on which it is 
accepted by the Executive Committee. 

CHAPTER III 

Nomination and Election of Directors of the Central Warehousing Corporation 

14. Nomination of Directors by the Board.— The Board shall nominate the re- 
presentatives of the Ministry of Transport and of the Railway Board, who are 
serving on the Board, as the two directors referred to m clause (b) of sub-section 
(i) of section 21. 

15. Issue of notice of election. — Where at any meeting an election is to be held, 
the particulars relating to the vacancy shall bo specified in the notice convening 
the meeting, 

16. List of each class of ••-hareholders. — Cl) For the purpose of election of a 
director under any of the sub-clauses (i) to Civ) of clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
of scclinn 21, a separate list of shareholders of each cla-" shall be prepared at 
least four weeks before the date of th e meeting at which the election is to be 
held and the shareholders of each class shall be eligible to vote in the election 
of director representing their class only. 

(2) Each such list shall be available for purchase at a price of 8 annas for 
each copy on application at the Head Office of the Central Warehousing Corpora- 
tion, 

17. Nomination of candidates for directorship. — (1) No candidate for election 
as a director of the Central Warehoiuing Corporation shall be validly nominated 
unless — 

(a) he is, on the last date for rceepit of nomination, not disqualified to be 

a director under section 22; 

(b) he is nominated by a shareholder of the class of shareholders in res- 

pect of which the election is to be held; 

(c) the nomination is in writing signed by a duly authorised representa- 

tive of the shareholder. A nomination may also be made by a reso- 
lution of the Directors of the Shareholding institution and where 
it is so made a copy of the resolution certified to be a true copy by 
the Chairman of the meeting at which it was passed shall be 
despatched to the head office of the Corporation and such copy shall 
bo deemed to be a nomination. 

(2) No nomination shall be valid unless it is received in the Head Office of 
the Corporation not less than 14 days before the date fixed for the election. 

18. Publication or list of candidates for directorship. — On the first working 
day following the last date fixed for the receipt of nomination papers, the Chair- 
man shall take the same into consideration. He shall, after such enquiry, if any, 
as he thinks necessary, accept or reject the nomination of any candidate. Any 
person aggrieved by the decision of the Chairman, may within 7 days of the order 
of the Chairman, accepting or rejecting the nomination of any candidate, appeal 
to the Central Government, whose decision thereon shall be final. If the number 
of valid nominations is equal to the vacancies to be filled in each category, the 




Part ix| — Sec. 3] 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, IBM 

177 * 

■ r~ 


candidates validly nominated shall be deemed to bei elected at the meeting con- 
vened for the purpose and their names and addresses shall be published as SO' 
selected. If the number of valid nominations exceeds the number of vacancies 
in each category the Chairman shall cause to be published the names and addres- 
ses of candidates validly nominated in the Gazette of India and in at least three 
news-papers in India. 

19. Term of office, and filling of casual vacancies among directors. — 

(1) A nominated director shall hold office so long' as he remains a member 

of the Board, 

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 21, an elected 

director shall hold office for a term of two years or until a successor 
is elected, whichever is longer. 

(3) A casual vacancy in the office of a director shall be filled up by election 

or nomination by the authority competent so to elect or nominate! 
and a director kg elected or nominated shall hold office for so 
long only as the director whose place he fills would have been 
entitled to hold office if the vacancy had not occurred: 

Provided that no casual vacancy occurring within three months of the date 
of expiry of the nomal term of office of a director shall be filled under this sub- 
rule. 

20. Power to nominate directors on failure to elect. — If any class of share- 
holders referred to in cluuse (ci) of sub-section (i) of section 21 fails to elect a 
director within two months oi the notice of the vacancy given by the Secretary 
or within such further period as the Central Government may allow, the Board 
shall nominate a director to fill the vacancy. 

21. Election of directors cf (he Executive Committee. — The two directors to 
be chosen by the Central Warehousing Corporation under clause (c) of sub- 
section (i) of section 20 shall be — 

(i) The Financial Advisor to the Ministry of Food and Ag iculturc on the 

Board of directors of the Corporation; 

( ii) Onti director elected by Lhc board of directors of the Corporation 

from among the four directors referred to in clause (d) of sub- 
section (1) of section 21. 

21-A. Financial Adviser of I ho Corporation. — The Officer appointed under Rule 
10A shall also act as the Financie) Adv.ser of the Central Warehousing Corpora- 
tion to advise them on all matters relating to revenue and expenditure. 

CHATTER IV 

Shakes of the Central Warehousing Corporation 

22. Shares moveable property. — The shares of the Central Warehousing 
Corporation shall be moveable property. 

23. Conditions of first allotment of shares.— (1) Subject to the provisions of 
the Act and these Rules, shares shall be under the control of the board of 
directors of the Corporation. 

(2) The first allotment of shares shall be made by the Board of Dliectors in 
accordance with the provisions of section 18 to applicants, who are qualified to 
be registered as share-holders of the Corporation. 

(3) The board of directors may make allotments to the applicants for shares 
either in full, or in part depending on the number of applicants from the class 
of shareholders concerned. In so far as it is practicable, the board of directors 
shall make full allotment in respect of the applications for smaller number of 
shares so that there may be as many shareholders of that class as possible. 

(4) The decision of the board of directors as to whether in a particular 
application for shares there shall be full, partial or no allotment, shall 
be final. 

24. Share Register.— ( 1 ) The Corporation shall maintain at head office, ai 
register of shareholders qualified under the Act to be registered therein and 
shall enter therein the following particulars: — 

(a) the name and address at which each shareholder has his principal, 
place of business; 



17 72 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1950 


tPART II — S*C. 3 


(b) the categories specified in sub-section (2) of section 18 of the Act 
under which the shareholder is qualified to be so registered; 

Cc) the date on which each person is entered as a shareholder, the manner 
in which he acquired nis share and except in the case of first allot- 
ment, the name of the previous holder; 

(d) the date on which each person ceases to be a shareholder and the 
name of the person to whom and the ledger to which the share is 
transferred. 

(2) In the share register, a separate ledger shall be maintained in respect of 
each of the categories of shareholders referred to in section 18(2) namely the 
Board, the State Bank of India, other scheduled banks, insurance companies, 
investment trusts and other classes of financial institutions and recognised 
associations and joint stock companies dealing in agricultural produce. 

25. No joint holding of shares. — The Corporation shall not_ recognise the joint 
holding of shares. 

28. Inspection of Share Register. — (1) The share register prescribed by rule 
124, except when closed under Rule 27, shall be open to the inspection of any 
shareholder, free of charge, at the head office of the Corporation during business 
hours, subject to such reasonable restrictions as the Corporation may impose^ 
but so that no less than two hours in each day may be allowed for inspection. 

(2) A shareholder shall not have the right to make a copy of any entry in 
any such register by himself, but may, except when the register is closed, 
require a copy of any such register or of any pprt thereof, on pre-payment 
therefor, at the rate of 8 annas for every hundred words or fractional part 
thereof required to be copied, 

27. Closure of Share Register. — The board of directors may, by giving notice 
by advertisement, close the share register for a period of 45 days but not 
-exceeding 30 days, at one time as may be necessary. 

28. Share Certificate. — (1) Every share certificate shall be issued under the 
•common seal of the Corporation. 

(2) Every share certificate shall specify the number and denote numbers of 
the share in respect of which it is Issued and shall be issued within 3 months 
of the date of application 

29. Every shareholder entitled to one free share certificate. — (1) The board 

and the State Bank shall each be eitntled, free of charge, to one certificate for 
all the shares registered in their name. 

(2) Every shareholder other than the Board and the State Bank shall be 
entitled, free of charge, to one certificate for each 5 shares registered in its name. 
If any shareholder requires more than one certificate for each 5 shares held 
by it, it shall pay for each additional certificate, a sum of Re. 1. A shareholder 
holding less than 5 shares shall however be entitled, free of charge, to one share 
certificate and if it requires more than one certificate, it shall pay for each 
additional certificate a sum of Re.I. 


30. Renewal of share certificate. — (i) If any share certificate is worn out or 
-defaced or tendered for sub-division then upon production thereof to the head 
office of the Corporation, it may order the same to be cancelled and issue a 
new certificate or certificates in lieu thereof and if any share certificate is alleged 
to be lost or destroyed, then upon production of such evidence of the loss or 
destruction thereof, as the board of directors may consider satisfactory and upon 
such, indemnity with or without security as the board of directors may roauire, 
a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given to the party entitled to such lost 
•or destroyed certificate, provided that no such certificate shall be issued without 
first giving notice to the public insorted in local newspapers and inviting objec- 
tion, if any, within a week of the notice. In case of loss or destruction, the 
person availing himself of the provisions of this rule shall also pay to the 
Colorations all expenses incidental to the investigation of evidence of loss or 
destruction and the preparation of the requisite form of indemnity as aforesaid. 

(ii) For every certificate issued under this rule, there shall be paid to the 
Corporation, a sum of Re, 1, in addition to any incidental expenses, which may 
-have been incurred by it under sub-clause (i). 




Part II — Sic. 


3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER tt, ltU 


1773 


31. Corporation’s lien on shares. — The Central Warehousing Corporation shall 

have a first lien upon all shares registered in the name of each shareholder and 
upon the proceeds of sale thereof for its debts, liabilities and engagements, 
solely or jointly, with any other person to or with the Corporation, whether 
the period for payment, fulfilment or discharge thereof shall have actually 
arrived or not, and such lien shall extend to- all dividends from time to time 
declared in respect of such shares. Unless otherwise agreed, the registration of 
a transfer of shares shall operate as a waiver of the Corporation’s lien, if any, 
on such shares, 

32. Disqualified Shareholder. — (1) It shall be the duty of any institution 
registered as a shareholder forthwith upon ceasing to be qualified to be so 
registered, to give intimation thereof to the board of directors. 

(2) The Board may, at any time cause such enquiry to be made as it may 
consider necessary, for ascertaining whether any institution legistered as a 
shareholder has ceased to be so qualified and upon being satisfied about this, it 
shall inform the shareholder that it is not entitled to be a shareholder of the 
Corporation. The shareholder will not be further entitled to the payment of any 
dividend on any such share nor to exercise any of the rights of a shareholder 
otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such share’ and the Corporation 
shall make ap entry in the register to that effect. 

(31 If the Board shall find that an institution, which is not qualified to be 
a shareholder of the Corporation, is registered by inadvertence or otherwise as 
a shareholder of the Corporation, it shall inform such shareholder that it is not 
entitled, to the payment of any dividend on any such share nor to exercise 
any of the rights of a shareholder otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of 
such share and shall make an entry in the register to that effect. The decision 
of the board under this rule as to whether an institution is qualified to be a 
shareholder or not shall be final. 

33. Shares may be Issued subject to different conditions as to call etc. — The 

Corporation may make arrangements on the issue of shares for a difference 
between the holders of such shares in the amount of calls to be paid and the 
time of payment of such calb. 

34. Instalments on shares to be duly paid. — If, by the conditions of allotment 
of any share, the whole or part of the amount or issue price thereof shall be 
payable by instalments, every such instalment shall, when, due, be paid to be 
Corporation by the institution, which for the time being, shall be the registered 
holder of the share. 

35. Trust not recognised.— Save as herein otherwise provided, the Corporation 
shall be entitled to treat the registered holder of any share as the absolute 
owner thereof, and accordingly shall not except as ordered by a Court of corn- 
patent jurisdiction or as by statute required be bound to recognise any equitable 
or other claim to any interest in such share on the part of any other person. 

36. Calls.— The board of directors may, from time to time, make such calls as 
it thinks fit upon the shareholders in respect of all moneys unpaid on the shares 
held by them respectively and not by the conditions of allotment thereof made 
payable at fixed times, and each shareholder shall pay the amount of every call 
so made on such shareholder to the persons and at the times and places appoint- 
ed by the board of directom 

37. When calls deemed to have been made, — A call shall be deemed to have 

been made at the time when the resolution of the director* authorising such ©all 
was passed and a notice of call Issued to the shareholders specifying the time 
and place of pavment. and to whom such call shall be paid. At least 15 days’ 
time from the date of issue of such notice shall be given to the shareholders for 
such payment 

38. When Interest on call or Instalment payable. — If 1dm sum payable In 

respect of anv call or instalment be not paid on or before the day appointed for 
payment thereof, the holder for the time being of the share, in respect of which 
the call shall have been made of the Instalment due, shall pay interest for the 
same at the rate of rupees nine per cent, per annum from the day appointed for 
the payment thereof, to the time of the actual payment, or at such other rate, 
as the board of directors may determine. The board of directors may, in its 
absolute discretion, waive the payment of interest under this rule. 

39. Evidence in action for call. — At the trial or hearing of any action for the 
recovery of any monev due for any call, it shall be sufficient to prove that the 
name of the shareholder sued, is entered in the register as the holder, that the 




1774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1950 


[Part II— Sec. 3 


resolution making the call is duly recorded in the minute book, in pursuance of 
these rules; and it shall not be necessary to prove the constitution of the board 
of directors, which makes such call, nor any other matter whatsoever, but the 
proof of the matter aforesaid shall be conclusive evidence of the debt. 

4ft. Payment of calls in advance. — The board of directors may, if it thinks 
fit, receive from any shareholder willing to advance the same, ail or any part 
of the capital due upon the shares held by such member beyond the sums actual- 
ly called for; and upon the amount so paid in advance, or so much thereof as 
from time to time exceeds the amount of the calls then made upon the shares 
in respect of which such advance has been made, the Corporation may pay 
interest at such rate as the shareholder paying such sum in advance and the 
board of directors agree upon. 

41. If call or Instalment not paid notice may be given. — If any shareholder 
fails to pay any call or instalment on or before the day appointed for the pay- 
ment of the same, the board of directors may at any time thereafter, during 
such time as the call or instalment remains unpaid, serve a notice on such 
shareholder requiring, such shareholder to pay the same, together with any 
interest that may have accrued and all expenses that may have been incurred 
by the Corporation, by reason of such non-payment. 

42. Form of Notice. — The notice shall name a day and a place or places on 
and at which such a call or instalment and such interest and expenses as afore- 
said are to be paid. The notice shall also state that in the event of non-paymont 
at or before the time and at the place appointed, the shares in respect of which 
the call was made or instalment is payable, will be liable to be forfeited. 

43. If notice not compiled with shares may be forfeited. — If the requisitions 
of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied with, any shares in respect of 
which such notice has been given may, at any time thereafter, before payment 
of all calls or instalments, interest, and expenses, due in respect thereof, be 
forfeited by a resolution of the board of directors to that effect. Such forfeiture 
shall include all dividends declared in respect of the forfeited shares, and not 
actually paid before the forfeiture. 

44. Forfeited shares to become property of the Corporation. — Any share so 
forfeited shall be deemed to be the property of the Corporation, and the board 
of directors may sell, reallot or otherwise dispose of the same m such manner 
as they may think fit, subject to the provision of Section 18 of the Act. 

45. Power to annul forfeiture. — The board of directors may at any time before 
any shares so forfeited shall have been sold, re-allotted, or otherwise disposed 
of, annul the forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as it thinks fit, 

46. Arrears to be paid notwithstanding forfeiture. — Any shareholder, whose 
shares have been forfeited under Rule 44, shall notwithstanding, be liable to 
pay, and shall forthwith pay to the Corporation, interest and expenses owing 
upon or in respect of such shares at the time of the forfeiture together with 
interest thereon, from the time of forfeiture until payment at nine per cent, per 
annum and the board of directors may enforce the payment thereof, if they 
think fit 


CHAPTER V 
Miscellaneous 

47. Maintenance of and operation upon Bank Accounts and Investments of the 
Central Warehousing Corporation. — (1) All moneys belonging to the Central 

Warehousing Corporation shall be deposited in the Reserve Bank or the State 
Bank of India or, subject to the sub-rules below, in such scheduled Bank or 
Co-operative Bank as may be approved for this purpose by the Central Gov- 
ernment to the account of the corporation. 

(2) All payments by or on behalf of the Corporation shall be made bv 
cheques except for amounts not exceeding Rs. 500 which may be made in cash 
from the amount of imprest sanctioned for such purposes. 

(3) Such cheques and all orders for making deposits or investments or for 
the withdrawal of the same for the disposal in any other manner or the funds 
of the corporation, shall be signed by the Managing Director or by any officer of 
the Corporation authorised by the Board in this behalf. 



Part ZI—sIec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1775 


(4) No payment shall be made out of the accounts of the 'Corporation unless 
the expenditure is covered by the financial estimate referred to in S.36 ( 1) pro- 
vided, however, that the Executive Committee of the Corporation may, at its 
discretion, authorise expenditure being incurred in anticipation of such estimate. 
The statement of expenditure so incurred shall be submitted to the Board of 
Directors at its next meeting. 

(5) All monetary transactions shall be entered in the cash book as soon as 
they occur and attested by an officer of the corporation duly authorized in this 
behalf. The cash book shall be closed daily and completely checked by the 
Managing Director or the officer authorised by him in this behalf. At the end 
of each month, the Managing Director or the officer so authorised, shall verify 
the cash book and the cash in hand und record a signed and dated certificate to 
that effect. 

(6) All payments by the Corporation shall be made on bills or other docu- 
ments duly prepared and passed by the Managing Director or other officer 
authorised in. this behalf. The paid vovxhcrs shall be stamped “paid” or so 
cancelled that they cannot be used a second time. They should then be kept 
serially numbered and produced at the time of audit. 


48, Deposit in Bank or investment in securities of surplus funds (1) Any 

funds of the Central Warehousing Corporation not required for current expendi- 
ture may be placed in fixed deposit with the Reserve Bank of India or any 
scheduled or Co-operative- Bank approved in this behalf by the Central Gov- 
ernment or invested in the name of the Corporation in the Securities of the 
Central Government or any State Government. 

(2) The placing of money in fixed deposit and the investment thereof and 
the disposal of money so placed or Invested shall require the sanction of the 
Executive Committee of the Corporation. 

49. The expenses of the Board shall be met from such amount as the Central 
Government may, grant to the Board. 


30. Annual statement of Accounts. — The books of the board shall be balanced 
on the last working day of the month of March in each year and the annual 
statement of accounts shall be sot out as in Form “A”. 

51. Returns and Reports.— (a) The returns, statements and other particulars 
to be furnished by the Board, under sub-section (1) of section 15 in regard to 
the discharge of its functions under the Act, shall be in the Form “B” and they 
shall be submitted every half year to the Central Government. 


(b) The Board shall submit to the Central Government on annual report of 
its activities, policies and programmes during the previous year within three 
months from the expiry of the period to which the report relates. Such a report 
shall be in, Form “C”. 


52. Annual statement of accounts and Balance Sheet. — The Board of Directors 
shall cause the books of the Central Warehousing Corporation to be balanced on 
the last working day of the month of March in each year and the annual acco- 
unts shall be set out as follows: — 


(a) a balance sheet in Form “D”, 

(b) a profit and loss account for the year in Form “E”, 


FORM ‘A’ 

(Rule 50) 

National Co-operative Development and Warehousing Eoahd 
Annual Consolidated Statement of Account as at 3 ts? March 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1. Opening Balance. 

2 . Grants received from the Central Government. 

(a) Recurring 
(h) Non-recurring 
(c) Additional 

*3. Any other money received by the Board. 

4. Loans repaid. 


1. Contribution to Share Capital of Central 
warehousing Corporation. 

2. Other investments. 

3. Loans to — 

(i) State Govts. 

Hi) Central Warehousing Corporation. 

(tit) State Warehousing Corporations, 



1776 THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1986 


[Part II~Sic- 


Receipts 

j. Advances repaid. 

6 . Dividend on— 

(i) Shares of Central Warehousing Corporation. 
(if) Other investments. 

7. Interest on — 

(»') Loans to — - 

(a) State Govts. 

( b ) Central Warehousing Corporation. 

(c) S at; Warehousing Corporation, 

(ii) Advances to — 

(n) State Governments. 

(h) Ctntral Warehousing Corporation 
(c) State Warehousing Corporations, 

(fit) Bank accounts. 

8 . Miscellaneous. 


Expenditure 


'4. Advances to— 

( i ) State Governments. 

(if) Central Warehousing Corporation. 
(in) Stale Warehousing Corporations. 

3. Subsidies to — 

(i) State Governments. 

(ii) Central Warehousing Corporaticn. 
(Hi) State Warehousing Corporations. 

6. Administration. 

it) Salary’ & allowances of the Secretary 
& other staff. 

(ii) Fees. Travelling & daily allowances 
of members. 

(ili) Rent, Rates, Taxes. 

(in) Dead Stock. 

( v ) Printing & Stationery. 

(vi) Contingencies. 

7. Miscellaneous Expenses. 

8. Balance on hand. 


*This will include advances that may be received or made while acting as agent of the Go- 
vernment for purchase of Agricultural Produce under Section 9< 2}(bV 

Form I Under Form ‘A’ 

“National Co-operative Development Fund” 


Receipts 


Expenditure 


1. Opening Balance. x. Loans to State Governments. 

2. Grant from the Board. 2. Subsidies to State Governments. 

3. Repayment of loans by State Governments. 3. Investments. 

4. Interest on loans to State Governments, 4. Administrative Expenses. 

5. Interest on investments. 5. Miscellaneou s Expenses. 

A. Miscellaneous Receipts. 6. Balance on hand. 


Form II under Form ‘A’ 

“National Warehousing Development Fund” 

Receipts Expenditure 


I 

1. Opening Balance, 

2. Grant from the Board. 


3. Repayment of loans from— 

(t) Central Warehousing Corporation. 

(ii) State Warehousing Corporations. 

(iff) State Governments. 

4. Interest on investments. 

5. Dividend on shares of Central Warehousing 
Corporation. 

6. Miscellaneous Receipts. 


1. Contribution to the Share Capital of 
Central Warehousing Corporation. 

2. Loans to — 

(i) State Govts. 

(it) Central Warehousing Corporation, 
(in) State Warehousing Corporations. 

3. Subsidies to— 

f) Central Warehousing Corporation. 
it) State Warehousing Corporations, 
(fit) State Governments. 

4. Investments. 

5. Administrative Expenses. 

6. Miscellaneous Expenses. 

7. Balance on hand. 




1777 


:c. 3] THB GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1*52 

FORM S’ 

[See Rule 51 (a)] 

Returns and Statements under Section 15(1) of the Act 

1. Grants received from Central Government 

(a) Opening balance 

(b) Grants received during the year. 

(c) Total 

2. Contribution to the share capital of the Central Warehousing Corporation 

3. Loans to: — 

A: — State Governments for subscribing to the share capital of — 

(i) Marketing Societies — 

(a) Primary 

(b) Regional 

(c) Apex 

(ii) Processing Societies 

(Hi) State Warehousing Corporation 

(iv) Other Cooperative Societies 

B: — State Governments for financing construction of warehouses and/or 
godowns of — 

(i) Large Sized Societies 

(ii) Marketing Societies 

(iii) Processing Societies 

(iv) Regional Marketing Societies 

(v) Apex Marketing Societies 

(vi) Other Cooperative Societies 

C: —State Governments for giving loans for purchase of transport vehicle# 
by— 

(i) Large-sized Societies 

(ii) Marketing Societies 

(iii) Processing Societies 

(iv) Other Cooperative Societies 

4. Subsidies to: — 

(a) State Governments for financing construction of Warehouses and/or 
godowns of— 

(i) Large-sized Societies 

(ii) Primary Marketing Societies 

(iii) Regional Marketing Societies 

(iv) Apex Marketing Societies 

(v) Processing Societies 

(vi) Other Cooperative Societies 

(vii) State Warehousing Corporation 

(b) State Governments for making grants to meet expenses of management 
of — 

(i) Large-sized Societies 

(ii) Central Financing Agencies 

(iii) Apex Bank 

(iv) Central or Apex Land Mortgage Bank 

(v) Marketing Societies 

(vi) Processing Societies 

(vii) Other Cooperative Societies 


1778 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1980 


[Part II — Sec. 3 


(c) State Governments lor meeting the cost of additional departmental 
staff— 

5. Advances for purchases made on behalf of Government to: — 

(i) State Governments 

(ii) Central Warehousing Corporation 

(iii) State Warehousing Corporations 


FORM ‘C’ 

[See Rule 51(b)] 

Report under Section 15(2) 

The report shall be in the form of narrative and shall contain: — 

1. General review and economic appraisal of the achievement of the plans 
of development of (a) Agricultural Credit, (b) Marketing, (c) Processing, (d) 
Farming and (e) Warehousing, as well as the beneficial results obtained and 
difficulties experienced. 

2. Role played by— 

(1) The Reserve Bank of India. 

(2) The State Bank of India 

(3) The Central Committee for Cooperative Training 

(4) All India Cooperative Union 

(5) Industrial Finance Corporation. 

(6) Different Committees like the Indian Central Cotton/ Jute/Cocoanut/ 

Lac/Tobacco/Oil-Seeds Committees. 

3. Policies adopted in planning and promoting programmes of production, 

4. Activities of— 

(i) Large-sized Societies 

(ii) Marketing Societies 

(iii) Processing Societies 

(iv) Farming Societies 

(v) Central Warehousing Corporation 

(vi) State Warehousing Corporation. 

5. Subsidiary statements and schedules, as may be decided by the Board 
from time to time. 


FORM ‘D’ 

[See Rule 52] 

Central Warehousing Corporation 
Balance Sheet as at 31st March. 


Capital and liabilities 

i 


Properly and Assets 
2 


X. Capital— 

.t) Authorised .... 
(ii) Issued ..... 
(tii) Subscribed — 

(a) National Cooperative Develop- 
ment & Warehousing Board 

(ft) State Bank of India 
(cj Scheduled Banks 

( d ) Cooperative Societies 

(e) Insurance Companies . 

(/) Investment Trusts 


Rs. a. p. 


Rs. a. p. 

1. Cash on hand 

2. Cash in Banks — 

(o) The Reserve Bank of India 
(ft) The State Bank of India 
(c) Scheduled Banks 
id) Cooperative Banks 

3. Investments— 

(a) Central Govt. Securities 
(ft) State Govt. Securities 

(c) State Warehousing Corpora- 

tion shares. 

( d ) Other investments 




Part II— Sec! 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, ISM 1779 

— " f ' ' ■ — j — i L — r — . ' ’ ■ *— ' ■ •; f 1 as . 

I 2 


(?) Financial Institutions ■ 

(h) Recognised Associations deal- 
ing in Agricultural Produce 

(i) Joint Stick Companies dealing 
in Agricultural Produce - 

< to ) Paid up 

Calls in arrears .... 
Reserve Fund under section 40(1) - 
Bad and Doubtful Debts Fund under 


2 . 

3- 

4- 

5- 

6 . 

7. 


Section 401]: 

Other funds 
Bonds & Debentures 
Borrowings From — 


(i) The Reserve Bank of India under S. 

37 ( 2 )tD( 4 ). 

(») The Reserve Bank of India under 
S. 37 (2) (i) (b) . 

(Hi) The State Bank of India under 
. S. 37t2)(ii) .... 

(iv) Central Govt, under S-37(3) . 

(v) Board under S. 37(3) 

8 . Advances received for purchase of 

Agricultural Commodities . 

9. Liability [S. I9( (ij| under guarantees 

by Government per contra 

10. Provision for taxes 

11. Other liabilities 

12. Suspense .... 

13. Other items ... 

14. Profit and loss account 


Total 


4. Fixed Assets. 

fi) Lands 
(if) Buildings 

(iji) Godowns A Warehouses 

5. Guarantees by Govt, per 
centra. 

6“ Value of Dead Stock 

7. Advances to State Warehous- 
ing Corporations St Coopera- 
tive Societies for purchase 
of agricultural commodities 

under section 25(c). 

8. Estimated value of stocks held 
as agent of Govt. 

9. Other items. 


FORM ‘E’ 

(Rule 52) 

Central Warehousing Corporation 
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 3111 March. 

Rs. a. p. Rs. a. P. Rs. a. P. Rs. A. p. 


1. Interest on — 

(u) Loans from the Reserve 
Bank of India . 

(6) Loans from the State 
Bank of India 

(c) Bonds 

(d) Debentures 

2. Establishment 

3. Directors fees, etc. ■ 

4. Rent, Rates, Taxes 

5. Depreciation 

6. Repairs 

7. Bad & Doubtful Debs Fund 

8. Auditors fees or remunera- 

tion ... 

9. Stationery, printing etc. 

10. Miscellaneous expenses 
Net profit c/d 


1. Warehousing charges 

2. Interest on — 

(а) Securities 

(б) Bank Accounts . . 

c) Advances . 

d) Loans from the Board 

3. Subsidies received from 
the Board 

4. Dividend on share* held 
in State Warehousing 
Corporation 

5, Other income, including 
£agcncy commission 

NetBIOSs B/D . 


[No. F. 1-9/56 Coop I.] 

KRISHAN CHAND, Jt. Secy. 



T> e 


THE ftAMJWB 09 INDIA, OCTOBR 27, 18W [Part II— Sic- % 


ORDER 

Vert Delhi, the 17th October 1953 

8 Jt.O. 2499. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section I read with section 
10 of the Essex tlal Commodities Act. 1956 (10 of 1966), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Madras Rice Milk Licensing 
Order, 1918 namely: — 

Amendment 

In the said Order, after sub-clause (4) of clause 11-A, the following sub- 
clause (8) shall be inserted, namely: — 

“(5) Pending the disposal of an appeal or application for revision, the Com- 
missioner of Civil Supplies or the State Government as the case may be, may 
by order direct (hat — 

(i) the order refusing to grant or renew a licence; or 

(ii) the order cancelling or suspending a licence, shall not take effect 

pending the disposal of the appeal or the application for revision 
filed against such order." 

[No. 204 (4) /50-PY.II.} 
S. N. BHALLA, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi-2, the lTth October 1956 

S.R.O. 2410. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (p) of sub-section 
(1) of section 0 of the Indian Ports Act, 1900 (5 ot 1908), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following amendment in the Indian Port Health Rules, 1955 v 
namely : — 

In APPENDIX 4 to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely: — 


Date 

Show by “X” whether : 

Iridiquer psr "X" *’11 s’agit dc : 

Signature and professions 1 
statu* of vaccinator 

Signature et qualite profes- 
sionnelle du vacciriateur 

Approved stamp 

Cachet d’authenti- 
fication 

II 

Primary vaccination performed 

ia 

ib 


Primovaecination effectuee 



ib 

Read as auccessful Prise 




Unsuccessful Pas de prise 



2 

Revacdnation 

2 

3 

3 

Revacdnation 



4 

Revacdnation 

4 

5 

5 

Revaccination 



6 

Revacdnation 

6 

7 

7 

Revaccination 




[No. F. 11-8/50-I.H.) 










Part i}— &ec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1988 1781 


S.R.O. 2411. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8A of the Indian 
Aircraft Act 1934 (22 of 1934), the Central Government hereby makes the following 
amendment in the Indian Aircraft (Public Health) Rules, 1954, namely: — 

In SCHEDULE V to the said Rules, for the tabular form the following shall be 
substituted namely: — 


Date Show by “X” whether : Signature and professional Approved stamp 

status of vaccinator 

Indiquer par “X” si’il s’aglt de : Signature et qualite Cachet 

profes 5 ionnelle du d’authentiflcation 
vaccinateur 


1 a Primary vaccination performed ia ib 

Perimo vaccination cffectuce 


ib Read as successful Prise 

Unsuccessful Pas de prise 


2 Revacdnation 2 3 


3 Revaccination 


4 Revaccination 4 5 


5 Revaccination 


6 Revaccinadon 6 7 


7 Revaccination 


[No. F. 16-14/ 56-I.H.] 
A. T. SESHADRI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 19 th October, 1966 


S.R.O. 2412 — Dr. K. L. Wig, M.R.C.P., Principal, Medical College, Amritsar 
and Dean, Medical Faculty of the Punjab University, has been duly elected as a 
member of the Medical Council of India under clause (b) of Sub -section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act 1933 (XXVII of 1933), with effect 
from the 13th October, 1956, vice Dr. Tulsi Das. 


[No. F.5-85/56-M.I.] 









1782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1959 


[Part II — Sac- 3 


New Delhi-2, the 22nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2413. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Charit- 
able Endowments Act, 1890 (6 of 1890), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India, Ministry 
of Health No. F.4-3(2)/53-MI, dated the 12th June, 1953: — 

At the end of Schedule I to the said notification, after the heading ‘Held 
against Overdraft Account’ and the entry relating thereto, the following heading 
and entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


"Donation Funds Face value Source from which 

donation derived. 


Government. of India 3J% ic — Rs, 15,000 Private donations from 

Year Treasury Savings Deposit philanthropists who sym- 

Certiflc&tes. pathised with the aims 

and objects of the insti- 
tution. 


[No. F.4-60/56-MIL] 
KRISHNA BIHARI, Under Secy. 


New Delhi-2, the 20th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2414. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (ii) of clause 
(b) of section 3 of the Drugs Act, 1940 (23 of 1940), the Central Government 
hereby specifies as drugs the following substances namely: — 

(a) Chemical Contraceptives; and 

(b) the following Insecticides:— 

(i) Dicophane (Dichloro Diphenyl Trichloroethene) and its formulations. 

(ii) Fyrethrum and its preparations. 


[No. F.1-10/56-D.] 
N. B. CHATTERJI, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 


PORTB 


New Delhi, the nth October 1956 

S.R.O. 2415. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b) and (c) of 
section 5 of the Bombay Landing and Wharfage Fees Act, 1882 (Bombay Act VII 
of 1882) as applied to the Port of Kandla by the notification of the Govern- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Transport No. 14-P(89)/49-I, dated the 29th 
June, 1950, the Central Government hereby declares the following two cargo 
jetty berths, as public landing places and determines the limits of these landing 
places as these indicated in the table below against them, in addition to the 
public landing places previously declared by notification No. 14-P(35)/50, dated 
the 23rd January 1951 read with notifications No. 4-PH(3)/51 dated the 6th June 



Faht II— Site. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1936 1783 


1951, No, 4-PII(l)/53 dated the 29th September 1953 and No. 4-PII(5)/54 
dated the 15th March 1955, namely:. — ■ 


Name of the landing General description For the landing and 

place shipment of 


Limits 


1. Cargo Jetty berth 
No. r. 


2 . Cargo Jetty Berth 
No. 2. 


A reinforced cement con- 
crete structure support- 
ed on R.C.C. Piles with 
100 tons double bollar- 
ds and handing fen- 
ders every 75 feet, 
served with railway 
tracks, one transit shed 
and one warehouse and 
3 and 6 ton electric 
cranes. Available depth 
of water at L.W.O.S.T. 
along quay face is 32 
feet. 

Do. 


General merchandise 
other than explo- 
sioes and dangerous 
petroleum. 


Do. 


Bounded on the 
north by the nor- 
thern end of the 
cargo jetty, on the 
east by Kandla 
Creek, on the 
south by cargo 
jetty berth No. 3 
and on the west by 
reclaimed land. 


Bounded on the 
north by cargo 
jetty berth No. 1 
on the eaBt by 
Kandla Creek, on 
the south by cargo 
jetty berth No. 3 
and on the west by 
reclaimed land. 


[No. 4-PII (4)766.] 

T. S. PARASURAMAN, Dy, Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

Ports 

New Delhi, the 16th October i960 

SRO. 2416 In exrecise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of 

section 3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908) the Central Government is 
pleased to authorise Shri M. D. Sassoon, Probationary Pilot, K.andla Port to 
pilot vessels upto 7,500 tons gross during day light only, in and out of the Port 
of Kandla. 

TNo 2-PIIf 100)/56.1 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 

SRO 2417. In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 6 

of the Indian Ports Act. 1908 (15 of 1908), the Central Government hereby directs 
that with effect from the 1st December, 1950, the following further amendments 
shall be made in the Port Rules for the Port of Vizagapatam published with the 
notification of the Government of India in the late Department of Commerce No. 

222 P&L(19)/31(1), dated the 23rd September, 1933, the same having been pre- 
viously published as reauired by sub-section (2) of the said section, namely: — 
In the said rules, after rule 12, the following rule shall be inserted, namely:— 

“12-A. No person shall, excent under the authority of a written permit 
granted by the Superintendent, Traffic — 

(a) have or carry with him a camera for taking photographs err any material 

for making a sketch, plan, model or other devices, or 

(b) take any photographs or make any sketch, plan or model of any movable 

or Immovable object or building or installation within any dock area. 



1784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1060 [Paxt Id— Sac S 


Explanation , — For purposes of this rule, the expression ‘‘dock are*" shall consist 
of the following: 

(1) The Dry Dock area between the eastern and western boundary walls, 

(ii) The Quay Wall area enclosed by Customs boundary wall, 

(lit) The coal and oil wharves and Jetties enclosed by barbed wire fencing, 
and 

(iv) The eastern fore-shore of the Turning Basin from the Southern Lighter 
Canal to the Narrow Gauge Railway gate.” 

fNo. 17-PHI(0)/B0.1 
K. BALAKRISHNAN, Under Secy. 


(Transport Wing) 

Merchant Shipping 
New Delhi, the 17 th October 195 6 

S.R.O. 2418. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following further amendment in the rules regulating the grunting of certificate* 
of competency to engineers (Including motor engineers), published with the noti- 
fication of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport, No. S.R.O. 240. 
dated the 9th February, 1952, namely: — 

In APPENDIX D to the said rules, under the heading ‘‘(I) Day Classes” and the 
sub-heading “Name of School or Institution”, after the entry '‘Melbourne-Unjverplty 
of Melbourne”, the following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 

“If IT Melbourne— Caulfield Technical School, Caulfield East, Melbourne 
Australia.” 

[No. 67-M.A.(15)/S6j 
S. K. GHOSH, Dy. Secy- 


(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 2 ?nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2419. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 
erf the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939), the Central Government hereby directa 
that the provisions of Chapter VIII of that Act relating to Insurance of Motor 
Vehicles against Third Party Risks shall have effect on and from the 29th October, 
1936, In ail Part ‘B’ States to which the said Act extends, except the State of 
Travancore-Cochln. 


[No. 3fl-T(8)/56.1 
D, D. SURI, Dy 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi , the 20th October, 1958 

S.R.O. 2420, — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern- 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) 
and (3) of section 10A of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (7 of 
1904), Is published as required by sub-section (2) of the said section, for the 
Information of all persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration by the Central Govern- 
ment on or after the 31st December, 1956. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft by the Secretary "to the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Education, New Delhi, before the date aforesaid, will be considered 
by the Central Government. 




■Pars II — $sc. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, I960 


1785 


Draft Rules 


Whereas the Central Government is of 
excavating, blasting and other operations of 
and regulated for the pu_ pose of protecting and preserving the ancient monu- 
ment in the Island of Elephanta, District Kolaba, in the State of Bombay; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (1) and 
(3) of section 10A of the Ancient. Monuments Preservation Act, 1904 (7 of 1904), 
the Central Government hereby makes the following rules, namely; — 


opinion that mining, quarrying, 
a like nature should be restricted 


(1) These rules may be called the Elephanta Island (Protected Monuments) 
Rules, 1956. 


(2) They apply to the area specified in the Schedule (hereinafter referred to 
as ‘the area’.) 


(3) They shall come into force at once. 

2. No person shall, after the commencement of these rules, carry on in the 
area any mining, quarrying, excavating, blasting or other operation of a like 
nature, except under a licence granted by the Superintendent, Department of 
Archaeology, South Western Circle, Aurangabad (hereinafter referred to as the 
Superintendent) and in accordance with these rules. 

3, The terms on which a licence may be granted to carry on any of the said 
operations shall be as follows: — 


(a) Within a radius of half u mile of cave No. 1 Survey No. 66 and of Brick 
Stupa in new Survey No . 67, none of the said operations,' except minor quarry- 
ing operations not involving blasting, for domestic purposes or village needs, 
shall take place. 


(b) Outside the radius of half a mile referred to in clause (a) the Superinten- 
dent may in consultation with the Inspector of Mines of the Government of India 
require that the said operations shall be carried on subject to such restrictions 
relating to the muffling of sound, the kind and charge of blasting materials and 
the depth and number, of blast holes to be fired at a time, as he may think fit 
to impost 


(c) The licensee shall give the Superintendent notice in writing — (i) of not 
less than) one month before commencing the said operations and (ii) in the 
event of the resumption of the said suspended operations after their suspension, 
a notice bf not less than one week before resuming them, 

(d) Tiie licencee shall get the demarcation line of the said operations fixed at 
his own cost through the Superintendent before commencing them. 

(e) The Superintendent may suspend or cancel a licence for a breach of any 
of the terms thereof or if, in his opinion, the continuance of the said operations 
will endanger the protected monuments. 


4. Any person committing a breach of these rules shall be punishable with 
fine which may extend to two hundred rupees. 


The Schedule 


Boundaries of the area to which the rules will apply 


East ") 

West >, Arabian Sea. 

North j I 

South Arabian Sea ani parts of Survey Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 59. 

[No. F.4-13/53-C.1.] 
D. CHAKRA VARTI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 


New Delhi, the 151ft October 1956 

S.R.O. 2421. — In pursuance of sub-rule (1) of Rule 48 of Order XXI of the First Schedule 
to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908) the Central Government hereby appoints the 
officers specified in column 1 of the table below as officers to whom notice of orders attaching the 
salaries and allowances of the officers specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of the 
said table shall be sent. 


1786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[Part II — Sec- 3 


Tabi e 


Officers to whom notice should be sent Officers whose salaries and allowances 

are attached 


1 


2 


Deputy Accountant General, Production, Com- 
merce & Industry, New Delhi. 


Asstt. Accounts Officer, Production, Commerce 
& Industry, Bombay. 

Asstt. Accounts Officer, Production, Commerce 
& Industry, Calcutta. 

Asstt. Salt Commissioner lAdrn), Office of the 
Salt Commissioner, New Delhi. 

Mining Engineer, Mandi .... 

General Manager, R.S.S. Division, Sanrbhar 
Lake. 

Superintendent of Salt, Didwana . 
Superintendent of Salt, Pachbadra 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Bombay 

Assistant Salt Commissioner, Thana 
Assistant Salt Commissioner, Jamnagar 
Assistant Salt Commissioner, Kharagodha 
Superintendent Cum-Chief Chemist, Wadala 
Superintendent ot Salt, Bhayandar Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Bhandup Circle . 
Superintendent of Salt, Uran Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Dharangdhra Circle 
Deputy Salt Commissioner, Madras 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner, Tuticorin 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner, Kakinada 
Superintendent of Salt, Cuddulore Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Nagercoil Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Pennuguduru Citclc 
Superintendent of Salt, Tuticorin Circle 
Superintendent of Salt, Naupada Circle . 
Superintendent of Salt, Madras Circle 
Asstt. Salt Commissioner, Calcutta 

Superintendent of Salt, Hununa Circle 


Gazetted officers 'in the offices of the Salt 
Commissioner, New Delhi, R.S.S. Division, 
Mining Engineer, (Mandi Salt Circle), 

Mandi. 

Gazetted officers in Madras and Bombay 
Regions, 

Gazetted officers in Calcutta Region. 

Non-Gazetted officers in the office of Salt 
Commissioner, New Del ti, 

Non-Gazetted officers in the Mandi Salt 
Circle, Mandi. 

Non-gazatted staff in the office of the R.S.S. 
Division except Didwana and PachhHdra 
Circles. 

Non-gaze tied staff in Didwana Circle. 

Non-gazetted staff in Pachbadra Circle. 

Non-gazetted Staff in the office of the Deputy 
Salt Commissioner, Bombay. 

Y Non-gazetted stuff in their respective offices. 

J 

Non-gazetted staff in his circle. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do, 

Do, 

Non-gHZctted staff in his office. 

Do, 

Do. 

Non-gazetted staff in his circle. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 

Nor-gazetted staff in Calcutta Region except 
Humma Circle, 

Non-gazetted stuff in his circle. 


[No. 6/6/56-Salt.]. 
S. R. SUNDARAM, Under Secy- 


New Delhi, the 16th October. 1956 

S.R.O. 2422. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause 4 of the Colliery- 
Control Order, 1945, as continued in force by section 16 of the Essential Com- 
modities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Production, No. S.R.O. 1568, dated the 5th July, 1956, 
namely: — 

In the said notification, for item (ii) (which relates to the prices under table 
II) of the Note, the following items shall be substituted, namely; — 

“(ii) The prices given under table II, except those in respect of collieries 
mentioned against serial numbers 22 to 26, are for delivery free on 
rail at, or at the loading point nearest to, the colliery or free on road 
vehicle at the colliery; In the case of the collieries mentioned against 



Part II— Sec. 3] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 


1787 


serial Nos. 22 to 26, the prices so given are for delivery free on rail' 
and in ali cases the prices given in the table are inclusive of all 
charges.” 

[No. 4-CI(ll)/56.] 
A, NANU, Dy. Secy. 


ORDER 

New Delhi , the 27th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2423. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 (10 of 1955), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further Amendment in the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Production, No, S.R.O. 1299. dated the 10th June, 1955, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Order, against Serial No. 1, under 
column 4 with the heading “Purpose", for the words “against the 
auotas fixed by the Central Government" and “against the quotas 
fixed by the Central Government from time to time”, the words 
“otherwise than against the Central Government's quota” and “From 
time to time otherwise than against the Central Government's quota” 
shall be substituted, respectively. 

[No. 18-CI(3)/50.] 
P. N. DHIR, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OP COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2424. — The following draft of certain further amendments to the Indian 
Aircraft Rules, 1937, which the Central Government proposes to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian Alrerult Act, 1934 (22 of 1934), 
is published, as required by section 14 of the said Act, for the information of all 
persons likely to be adected thereby, and notice is hereby given that the said draft 
will be taken into consideration on or alter the 25th January, 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res- 
pect to the said draft before the date so specified, will be considered by the Central 
Government, 

Draft Amendment 

For clause (i) to the proviso to paragraph 2 of Section C of Schedule VIII to the 
said Rules, the following shall he substituted, namely: — 

“(1) a minimum of 500 hours’ flying experience as Co-pilot, but not as super- 
numerary. oil multi-engined aircraft of which at least 10 hours snail 
be by night", 

[No. 10-A/38-56.] 
M. DAYAL, Dy, Secy. 


(Posts & Telegraphs) 

New Delhi, the 20 th October 1956 

■D 24 2S.— In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 43 of the Indian 

Post Office Act, 1898 (6 of 1898); the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Indian Post Office Rules, 1933. 

namely-— 16 125 ° f ^ Said Rules ’ thc following rule shall be substituted, 

“125. If the payee of a money order refuses to take payment on presenta- 
tion of the money order to him, the amount of the money order 
shall he returned at once to the remitter, free of charge: 

Provided that if the payee while refusing to take payment on presentation 

nnst h nfl^o r 2r to an application in writing to the. 

post office of delivery for the detention of the money order, or if 



1788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 10M [Part II— Sec. 3 


the payee is not found at the address given on the money order, the 
money order shall be detained in the post office for a period not 
exceeding seven days from thei date of its presentation to the payee 
or from the date it is sent out for payment, as the ease may be If 
the payee fails to take payment of the money order from thi B »st 
office within the said period of seven days, the money order shall 
be returned to the remitter on the first working day immediately 
following the expiry of the said period of seven days: 

Provided further that the commission shall in no case be refunded.” 

[No. C. 11-5/55.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 

8.R.O. 2426. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the Indian Post Office 
Act, 1898 (0 of 1898), the Central Government hereby makes with effect from 
the 1st December 1956 the following further amendment to the Indian Post Office 
Rules, 1933, namely: — 

In rule 83 of the said Rules for the words "one Rupee” the words “two 
rupees” shall be substituted. 


[No. C.7-1/53.] 
V. M. BHIDE, Dy, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 9th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2427. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 
4 of the Evacuee Interest (Separation) Act, 1951, the Central Government hereby 
appoints for the State of Bhopal, Shri R. S. Saxena, Sub-Divisional Magistrate. 
Bhopal, as Competent Officer, for the purpose of discharging the duties imposed 
on the competent officer by or under the said Act, within the said State, with 
effect from the 20th August, 1956. 

[No. 16 (34) /56-Prop.I.] 
J. J. KARAM, Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 9th October 1956 

S-R.O. 2428. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (g) of section 2 of 
the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (44 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby specifies the following tribal areas adjoining the 
North West Frontier Province for the purposes of the said clause, namely: — 

Tribal areas of Malakand, Khyber, 

North Wa/iristan and South Waziristan. 


[No. F. 9/7/50-SI.] 


New Delhi, the 22nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2429.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954) the. Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra 
Bahadur, I.A.S. as Chief Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose of performing 
the functions assigned to such Commissioner bv or under the said Act. This 
appointment shall have effect during the period Shri L. J, Johnson, I.C.S., is 
on leave.. 

[No. 5/45/55-SII] 


S.R.O. 2430.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Supplementary Act, 1954 (12 of 1954), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Nagendra Bahadur, I.A.S, as 



Part II — £ 

EC. 3] 

THE GAZETTE" OB’ INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1958 

1789 

Chief Settl 

ement 

Commissioner for the purpose of performing the 

functions 


assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said Act. This appointment shall 
have effect during the period Shri L. J. Johnson, I.C.S., is on leave. 

, [No. 5/45/55-SIL] 

I. N. CHIB, Dy. Secy. 


New Delhi, the 15 th October 1950 

S.R.O. 2431. — In exercise, of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (No. 44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri B. P. Mathur as Settlement 
Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or 
under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 3/15/80-SII.J 

S.R.O. 2432. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R. C. Takru as 
Assistant Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his office. 

[No. 5/27/50-SII.] 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2433. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 (No. 44 
of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri H. S. Kamland as Settle- 
ment Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officer 
by or under the said Act. with effect from the date he took charge of his office. 

[No. 3/15/56-SIIJ 

S.R.O. 2484. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government has appointed the officers, whose names 
are mentioned in the Annexure, as Assistant Settlement Officers, for the 
purpose of performing the functions assigned to such officers, by or under the 
said Act, with effect from the date they took charge of their posts. 

The officers mentioned against Serial Nos, 3, 12, 15, 37, 48, 53, 00, 64, 68, 
69, 73, 74, [79, 81, 95, 108, 115, 144 and 166 of the annexure, ceased to hold their 
respective offices with effect from the dates on which they demitted office. 

Annexure 


Serial No. 1 Name of the persons appointed. 


1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 
9 

JO 

TJ 

12 

13 

14 
J5 

16 

17 

18 

19 


Shri R. M. Suldanhu 
Shri T. C. Bagai 
IShri G. A. Thadhani 
IShri T. C. Datta 
Shri R. L. Mansukhani 
Shri R. N. Dhingra 
Shri S. Narnia 
Shri M. M. I-al 
Shri Aladan Singh 
Shri D. C. Nanda 
Shri Des Raj Katyal 
Shri Tyoti Sarup 
Shri S. S. Govila 
Shri H. L. Goswami 
Shri H, L. Leekha 
Shri Agia Ram 
Shri B. S. Dubey 
Shri Uma Data 
Shri Baldev Kishan 


THH GAZETTE OS* INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 19OT 


[Part II 1 — Sic. 3 


[796 


Serial No, Name of the persons appointed 


20 

21 

22 

23 

24 

25 

26 

27 

28 

29 

30 

31 

32 

33 

34 

35 

36 

37 

38 

39 

40 

41 

42 

43 

44 

45 

46 


49 

5° 

51 

52 

53 

54 

55 
5*5 

3 

59 

60 
61 
6i 
«3 

64 

65 

66 

69 

70 

71 

72 

73 

74 

75 

76 

77 

78 

S 

81 

82 

83 

84 

85 

86 

«7 


Shri J. S. Sehgal 
Shri Arjan Nath 
Shri S. C, Jain 
Shri P. C. Baijal 
Shri S. P. Gupta 
Shri H, P. Asthana 
Shri H. C. Raina 
Shri I. D. Gera 
Shri Nand Kumar 
Shri R. K. Gupta 
Shri O. P. Girotra 
Shri K. C. Jain 
Shri R, N, Sehgal 
Shri S. P. Sahni 
Shri S. A. Kidwai 
Shri Prem Narain 
Shri D. N. Segal 
Shri Chhotcy Lai 
Shri A. N. Dutt 
Shri S. P. Sood 
Shri Piyare Lai Sood 
Shri B, P. Mathur 
Shri M. R. Bhagat 
Shri J. C, Gulati 
Shri S. R. Shivnani 
Shri R. L. Mahindroo 
Shri Joga Singh 
Shri Zaheerun Nabi 
Shri H. G. Bala 
Shri Ambeshangar Trlvedi 
Shri V. D. Kapur 
Shri Dhalu Ram 
Shri Lachman Das Jawa 
Shri K. L. Wadhwan 
Shri V. N, Gidwani 
Shri Tarlochan Singh 
Shri Gobind Ram Virmani 
Shri Harish Chandra 
Shri Sardari Lai Jain 
Shri J. P. Malhotra 
Shri K. N. Issar 
Shri S. C. Dewan 
Shri V. S. Bhatnsgflr 
Shri M. L. Mathur 
Shri K. B. Lai 
Shri E. N, Sinclair 
Shri Attar Lai Bahl 
Shri Raghubir Singh 
Shri V. N. Handa 
Shri D. S. Mathur 
Shri Vidva Sagar Jha 
Shri T. P. Singh Anand 
Shri O. N. Choudhary 
Shri Benarsi Lai Basho 
Shri C. P. Kapur 
Shri Shiva K, Talwar 
Shri Raghubans Shanker 
Shri Sohan Singh 
Shri A. S. Bhatnagar 
Shri D. R, Dhall 
Shri Kesar Singh Bhatia 
Shri Parmatma Sahai 
Shri R. N. Aggarwala 
Shri Arlan Singh Bains 
Shri J. P. Sharma 
Shri R. N. Mathur 
Shri S. B. Lai 
Shri B, R, Dewan 



THI GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1656 


1791 


Papt H — Se 4. ff] 


t 


Serial No. Name of the persons appointed 


88 

89 

90 

9 1 

92 

93 

94 

95 

96 

97 

98 

99 

TOO 

101 

102 
T03 
104 

105 

106 

1 07 

108 

109 
no 
in 

112 

113 

1 14 

115 

1 16 

117 

118 

119 

120 

121 

122 

123 
124 
12 J 
126 

127 

128 

129 

130 

131 

132 

133 

134 

135 

136 

137 

138 

139 

140 

141 

142 

143 

144 

145 

146 

147 

148 

149 

150 

151 

152 

153 

154 

155 


Shri Radha Krishan 

Shri A. n. Lai 

Shri N. Singh Bawa 

Shri P. N. Seth 

Shri Pritam Singh 

Shri Amar Singh 

Shri R. K. Kapoor 

Shri N. K. Sharma 

Slhri K. L. Sachdeva 

Shri A. K. Paul Chaudhrv 

Shri Sateshwar Dayal Galgotia 

Shri K. B. Chaudhry , 

Shri M, P. Misra 

Shri Santokh Singh Uppal 

Shri M. M. Lai 

Shri Om Parkash Chowdary 

Shri Lai Cband Mehra 

Shri Gurbachan Singh 

Shri Shri Ganesh Das Kaira 

Shri Ant Ram 

Shri Dev Raj Khanna 

Shri Hanuman Prashad Pandey 

Shri S. L. Mahindroo 

Shri Rattan Lai Sablok 

Shri Satish Chandra 

Shri Dev Datta Purie 

Shri N. B. Gorwani 

Shri Iqbal Singh Nakai 

I hri H. L. Narang 
hri Uma Shanker Shrivastava 
hri B. M. Talgeri 
hri Amar Nath Kapuria 
hri Paklrar Ram Aliir 
hri Sangat Singh 
hri Udho Ram 
hri Daulat Ram 
Shri Dalip Singh 
Shri Jaj Ram Nim 
Shri Chet Ram Nim 
Shri Raunqui Ram 
Shri Baldcv Raj Bansal 
Shri Dalip Singh Suri 

I hri H, B. Singh 
hri Ram Pars had 
hri Ram Gopal Agnibho) 
hri K. M, Kamblc 
hri E. P. Joromy 
hri B. L. Juncja 
hri M. N. Chaturvedi 
hri Manmohan Lai Bhatia 
hri Ram Prakash Puri 
hri B. M. Lakshmipatiah 
Shri S. D. Misra 
Shri R. N. Mathur 
Shri H. S. Khurana 
Shri Gurbachan Singh Nagra 
Shri M. Ziauddin 
Shri K. C. Shahare 
Shri P. L. Soni 
Shri Gokal Ram 
Shri Nirmalendu Bhattacharhea 
Shri H. L. Malhotra 
Shri K, K. Varma 
Shri S. A. Kaptan 
Shri Gian Chand Mehra 
Shri P. D. Soli 
Shri D. S. Jain 
Shri Harish Chand 


1792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, I960 


[Part II— Sec. 2 


Serial No. Names of the persons appointed 


156 Shri V. N. Khosla 

157 Shri D. S. Sharda 

158 Shri J. C. AhluwaUa 

159 Shri V. K, Mehta 

160 Shri K, L. Anand 

161 Shri C. T- Motwani 

162 Shri C. L. Punj 

163 Shri P. H. Jagtiani 

164 Shri M. L. Mehra 

165 Shri K. K. Obcroi 

166 Shri Vilait Rai 

167 Miss S. Dhanda 

168 Shri Jai Parkash Saxena 

169 Shri R. K. Slbbal 

170 Shri K. K. Gupta 

171 Shri Turlok Singh 

172 Shri Madan Lai Mehra 

173 Shri V. D. Bhambani 

174 Shri J. R. Khosla 

175 Shri B. S. Mahara 

176 Shri R. C. Dhingra. 


[No. 3/6/56-SIIJ 


New Delhi, the 19 th October 1956 

S.R.O, 2435. — In exercise of the; powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Man Mohan Lai 
Mathur as Settlement Officer for the purpose; of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his office. 

This Ministry’s notification of even number dated the 24th September, 1956 is 
hereby cancelled. 


[No. 6/5/50-S.IIJ 

S.R.O. 2436. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons (Claims) Act, 1954 (12 of 1954), the Central 
Government hereby appoints Shri Y. R. Ahuja as Settlement Officer for the pur- 
pose of performing the functions assigned to such officer by or under the; Sind 
Act with effect from the date he was transferred to the office of the Chief Settle^ 
ment Commissioner. The Central Government also appoints the. said Shri Ahuja 
as Additional Settlement Commissioner for the purpose of performing the 
functions assigned to such commissioner by or under the said Act 

[No. 6/5/56-S.IIfI) J 


S.R.O. 2437. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation Ik Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(No. 44 of 1954) the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Lachman Das 
Jawa, as Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his office. 

[No. 3/15/50-SII.] 


S.R.O. 2438.— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation & Rehabililation) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Jagannath Prasad an 
Assistant Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his post. ' 


[No. 7/20/56-SII(Pt. II).] 



Part II— skc. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27 1 1850 1793 


S.R.O. 2439. — In exercise of the jJowers conferred by sub-section (1) of 
section 3 of the Displaced Persons - (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Trilok Nath Bhalla, 
an Assistant Settlement Officer, for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he 
took charge of his post. 

[No. 7/26/56-SII/ (Pt. II).] 

S.R.O. 2440.-— In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri G. S. Masand, an 
Assistant Settlement Officer, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned 
to such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took 
charge of his post. 


[No. 7/26/56-SII (Pt. II).] 
New Delhi, the 2 2nd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2441. — In exercise of the powers conferred bv sub-section (1) of sec- 
tion 3 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri R, K. Atal, an Assis- 
tant Settlement Officer, for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to 
such officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge 
of his post. 


[No. 7/26/56-SII (Pt. II) .] 
MANMOHAN KISHAN, Under Secy. 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONAL AUTHORITY 

New Delhi, the 19th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2442. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 14 of the Delhi 
(Control of Building Operations) Act, 1955 (No. 53 of 1955), the Delhi Develop- 
ment Provisional Authority, New Delhi, hereby directs that the powers exercisable 
by it under] sections 6 and 7 regarding the grant or refusal of permission to erect 
any building, and powers under sections 8, 10 and 12 of the said Act, may also 
be exercised by the New Delhi Municipal Committee, New Delhi, in respect of 
the colony known as Defence Colony. 

[No. F. 1 ( 147 ) /56-Admn.] 
G. MUKHARJI, Member-Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

New Delhi, the 12th October 1950 

S.R.O. 2443.— In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (8 of 1890), read with the notification of the Government of 
India in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801 dated the 24th 
March. 1905, the Railway Board hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the 
Government published with the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Railway Department (Railway Board) No. 1078-T dated the 9th March, 1929, 
namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to Part III of the said Rules, in item (1) of the 
(entries in column 3, against serial No. 57, — 

(i) after the words “wicker basket with vertical rides and conical top”, the 
words “or in a well made strong wooden box or metal case” shall 
be inserted; 

<ii) after the words “through the top of the basket”, the words "or the lid 
of the box” shall be inserted. 


[No. 1506-TG/II/58.] 



1794 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1BB8 


[Fart IX — Bec. I 


New Delhi, the 17th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2444. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian. 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890) and by the Notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801, dated the 24th March 
1905, the Railway Board hereby makes he following further amendment in the 
General Rules for all open lines of Railways in India administered by the Govern- 
ment published with the Notification of the Government of India in the late 
Railway Department (Railway Board) No, 1078-T, dated 9th March 1929,. 
namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to part III of the said rules, against Serial No. 11 
In column 2, under the heading “Inflammable liquids — -Group B — Petroleum and 
other hydrocarbon oils, non-dangerous”, after the entry “Pine Oil”, the following 
entry shall be inserted namely: — 

“Pentachlorophenol dissolved in selected petroleum oils”. 

[No. 1505-TG/II/56.J 


New Delhi, the 20th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2445. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 47 of the Indian 
Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890) and by the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Department of Commerce and Industry No. 801, dated the 24th March, 
1905, the Railway Board hereby makes the following amendment In the General 
Rules for all open lines of railways in India administered by the Government, 
published with the notification of the Government of India in the late Railway 
Department (Railway Board) No. 1078-T, dated the 9th March 1929, namely: — 

In the Schedule appended to part III of the said Rules, in column 4, against 
Serial No. 19, after the words "with Kasiln (China clay and Sodium 
Silicate)” in item (iii) the word “or’ shall be inserted and after item 
(ill) as so amended, the following item shall be inserted, namely: — • 

“(iv) with a composition containing sand and sulphur in equal parts by 
weight.” 


[No. 1375-TG.J 


New Delhi, the 22 nd October 1950 

S.R.O. 2446. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 72-A of the 
Indian Railways Act, 1890 (9 of 1890), and m supersession of the notification of 
the Government ol India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) No. 402-TG 
dated the 13th February, 1956, the Central Government hereby approves the 
form of forwarding note for explosives prescribed by all railway administrations 
aa shown in the enclosure. 



Fortcarding Note for Explosives tendered by Defence Services 
(Approved by the Central Government for use on all Railways under section 72-A of the Indian Railways Act of 1890) 


To 

The Station Master Railway. Station Railway. 

Please receive the under-mentioned consignment and forward by Goods and/or Mixed train* /Coaching and/or Mixed train *to 
Station on the Railway as consigned below: — 


By whom consigned To whom consigned No. of Description & Sender’s Freight 

Station to articles private marks weight paid/to pay 


Name Address Name Address Mds. Srs. 


I do hereby certify that I have satisfied myself that the description, marks and weight or quantity of goods consigned by me have been correctly 
entered in this Forwarding Note. 

I certify that the goods entered in the Forwarding Note have been packed in approved service packages. 

Certified that the nominal package/s used for packing of the stores 'items detailed in the forwarding Note is' 1 are suitable for their packing. The 
packing has been done satisfactorily so as to avoid any damage and leakage of the explosive store during transit and that the explosive so packed is fit 
and safe for transport by rail. 

Certified that the explosives tendered in this Forwarding Note are declared safe for transport. 

I further declare that I accept responsibility for any consequences to the property of the aforesaid Railway Administration, or to the property 
of other persons, entrusted or to be entrusted to. the Railway Administration for conveyance, or otherwise, which may be caused by the explosion, or 
otherwise by the said consignment, and that all risk and responsibility whether to the Railway Administration, to their servants or agents or to others, 
retain solely and entirely with me. 

t(i) Alternative railway risk and owners risk rates being available, I elect to pay the rate. 

ff2) To be forwarded via fa dearer route*) at my request. 

f(3) The cheapest route being closed '/partially closed*, to be charged via the next cheapest open route. 

h 4) I declare that these packages contain of a value of Rs. enumerated in the Second Schedule to the Indian Railways 

Act IX of 1890. I engage*/do not engage* to pay the percentage charge on value for increased risk as required by the Administration. (Description, 
contents, and value of excepted articles in each package should be specifically mentioned.) 

‘Strike out where inapplicable. 

f Strike out any clause inapplicable before signing this form. 

Signature of sender or his agent 

Dated 195 . Address. . 

Note, — A dditions or alterations made in the above entries must be signed (not initialled) by the sender or his agent. 


PWU H-UStc. 3] THE DA&ETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, I960 



(The form below to be filled in by the Railway staff) 


Forwarding Note No 

Particulars of weighment 


No. of 


Weight 

articles | 

Description 

Maunds Srs. 


dated 


Checked by 


105 

Weighted by 


195 

Loaded by 


195 

Invoiced Dy 


195 


Risk 

To be carried via 


To be charged via 




Explanatory Notes 

(i) When alternative railway risk end owner’s risk rates are quoted, the latter will apply unless the sender, in Clause (i) oserleaf, en'ers th e 
words “Railway risk” “when he will pay or engage torpay the higher charge and will receive a certificate to this effect. 

(2) When a consignment is to be forwarded via other than the shortest route at the sender’s request, the route by which the consignment is to be 
forwarded must be recorded in Clause ( 2 ) overleaf. 

(3) When a consignment is to be charged via the next cheapest open route, the cheapest route being closed, or partially closed, the route by which 
the consignment is to be charged must be recorded in clause (3) overleaf. 

(4) Railways are not responsible for any loss, destruction or deterioration of or damage to a parcel or package containing any ar icle(s) 
specified in the Second Schedule to the Indian R always Act IX of 1890 whose value exceeds Rs. 300/- per parcel or package unless the contents 
and value are declared and engagement entered into to pay the authorised percentage on value charge, if required. The declaration of contents and 
value must be made in clause (4) overlead and the word “engage” or words “do not engage” struck out according to whether the consign- 
ment is to be booked by the Railway with bailee’s responsibility or otherwise. The Administration hereby git e notice that payment of percentage of 
value charge is required. 

Note:— All clauses and words which are in applicable are to be struck out before the Forwarding Note is signed. 

[No. 402-TG.] 
D, C. BAUAL, Secy. 


1796 T HE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1900 [Part II — Sue- 3 


Tart II-LSec, 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 1797 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 22nd October 1950 

S.R.O. 2447, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
and clause (5) of Article 148 of the Constitution, the President, after consultation 
with the Comptroller and Auditor General of India hereby makes the following 
rules, namely:— 

1. Short title and commencement. — (i) These rules may be called the Central 
Civil Services (Audit and Accounts Department Transferred Employees) Rules, 
1956. 

(11) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force, in respect of each 
transferred employee, on the date on which such employee was actually taken 
■over, 1 

2. Definitions: — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires: — 

(a) ‘Government’ means the Government of India; 

(b) ‘relevant date’ means the date on which a transferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government; 

(c) ‘State’ with its grammatical variations means a Part C State or a State' 

merged with a Part A State; 

(d) ‘State rules’ in relation to an employee mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of service of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the day on which he was actually 
taken over; and 

(e) ‘transferred employee’ with its grammatical variations means a person 

who was employed under the Government of a Part C State or of a 
State merged with a Part A State and who has been taken over by 
the Central Government in the Indian Audit and Accounts Depart- 
ment, in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of 
the executive authority of the Central Government to that State. 

3. Persons to whom rulee apply. — These rules shall apply to transferred 
^employees in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department other than those 
specified below: 

(a) employees engaged on contract; 

(b) employees not in whole-time employment; and 

(c) employees paid out of contingencies. 

4. Absorption in an appropriate grade under the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department, — A transferred employee shall be fitted into the appropriate grade 
in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department with effect from the relevant date 
in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behalf and any 
such employee who is not so absorbed shall continue to be governed by the State 
rules : 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government. 

5. Election between State Rules and Central Rules. — (1) A transferred 

employee who held a permanent post in a substantive capacity immediately 
before the relevant date shall on absorption in the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Department elect on or befoie a date to be specified in this behalf by the Gov- 
ernment whether he shall be governed by the State rules or the Central rules; 

(i) provided that the election shall be in favour of the State rules or the 

Central rules as a whole and not merely any part or parts thereof; 

(ii) made in writing in such form as may be prescribed by Government: 

Provided further that the right to elect shall not extend to administrative 

matters such as applicability of Government Servants Conduct 
Rules, Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 
hours of work, holidays and transfer, 

(2) Subject to such special orders as the Government may issue in this behalf 
an election once made shall, except to the extent specified in rule 7, be final, ’ 

(3) The instructions contained in the Comptroller and Auditor General’s 
letter No. 135-States/169-A/52, dated 30th August 1952, shall apply to every 
election under this rule. 



1798 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 


[Part II — Sec- 3 


(4) A transferred employee who fails to exercise the right of election on or' 
before the date specified by the Government under sub-rule. (1) or who, in the 
opinion of the Government, has exercised the right in an ambiguous manner' 
shall be treated as having elected to be governed by the Central rules. 

(5) A transferred employee who before the publication of these rules, haa 
retired from service shall also be eligible to exercise the opinion, provided that 
he was in service on the relevant date. 

6. Initial pay. — A transferred employee who elects the Central rules shall have 
his initial pay fixed in the appropriate grades or post on the Central scales of' 
pay in accordance with the orders issued by the Government in that behalf. 

Explanation . — Central scales of pay mean the ‘Prescribed scales’ specified 
in the Central Civil Services (Revision of pay) Rules, 1947. 

7. Duration of applicability of State rules. — A transferred employee who elects 
to be governed by the State rules in accordance with rule 5 shall continue to be 
governed by those rules; 

Provided that, subject to the next succeeding proviso, and subject also to the 
provisions of the Government of India, Ministry of Finance, letters of even No. F. 
16(92)A(A)/63, dated the 4th March 1954 and the 28th May 1954, where appli- 
cable, such an employee on promotion to a higher post shall be brought on to 
the Central rules finally and his pay in the higher post shall be fixed under the 
Fundamental Rules, his substantive pay drawn under the State rules on the date 
of promotion being taken as the substantive pay for such purpose; 

Provided further that such an employee may, if he so desires, on promotion 
elect to be governed by the State rules as applicable to the. post held by him on. 
the relevant date and an election so made shall be treated as final for so long 
as he continues to hold the post to which he has been promoted or an equivalent 
post. 

8. Leave and Pension. — (1) A transferred employee who elects to be governed 
by the Central rules shall be subject to tho Revised Leave Rules, 1933 as amended 
from time to time. The leave to be carried forward on the relevant date and the 
manner in which leavei taken during the pre-absorption period shall count for 
pension, shall be determined in accordance with the orders issued in the Ministry 
of Finance O.M. No. F. 14(4)Est.III/53-l, dated the 13th July, 1953, and No. 
F.7(124)EV/53, dated the 27th March 1954, respectively, as amended from time 
to time. 


(2) A transferred employee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who retires before the 17th April 1950, shall be subject to the Pension Rules 
in the Civil Service Regulations us on the 16th April 1950, as for post 1938 
entrants, Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950, shall be 
subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the Ministry of Finance 
O.M. No. F. 3(T)Est, (Spl.)/47, dated the 17th April 1950, as applicable to post — 
1938 entrants, as amended from time to time. All the permanent or temporary 
service rendered by the transferred employee under the State Government prior 
to absorption shall be treated as permanent or temporary service rendered under 
the Government: j 


Provided that a transferred employee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Government 
and thereafter, he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provi- 
dent Fund. The extent to which the past service of such a transferred employee 
shall count towards pension shall be determined with reference to the orders 
contained in the Ministry of Finance O.M. No, F. 7(47)EV/54, dated the 17th July 
1954, as amended from time to timet 

Explanation .—- For the purposes of this sub-rule, the expression ‘All the 
permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em- 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption' shall mean 
the total length of service, whether permanent or temporary ren- 
dered by a transferred employee in any Acceding State, a Part C 
State or a Part A State, prior to the date of such absorption. 

(3) A transferred employee who elects to be governed by the Central rules 
and who retires before the 17th April, 1950, shall be eligible for the benefits of 
commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions (Commutation) Rules Such 
an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 1950, shall be eligible ' to the 
benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pension (Commutation) Rules 



Part U-J-Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF iNtMA, UM-lutHLR a i, iaao 1799 

read with the revised Pension Rules promulgated in the Ministry of Finance 
O.M. No. F. 3(l)Est.(Spl)/47, dated the 17th April 1950, as amended from time 
to time. 

(4) For the purposes of determining the age of retirement for ministerial 
Government servants, the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56(b) (ii) shall apply. 

[No. F. 12 (11) -Est.III/ 56-1] 

K. S GANAPATI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

(Office of the Controller of Capital Issues) 

New Delhi, the 19th. October 1956 

S-R.O. 2448. — For Rule 4 of the Capital Issues (Application for Consent) Rules, 
1954 published in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, dated the 13th March, 
1954 as S.R.O., 828 dated the 9th March, 1954 the following shall be substituted, 
namely : — 

“4, Every application under these rules shal] be accompanied by a Treasury 
receipt for Rs. 50 which shall, at Bombay, Calcutta, Delhi, Madras 
and Bangalore, be deposited In the Reserve Bank of India and at 
other places In the nearest Government Treasury or in the nearest 
Branch of an agency of the Reserve Bank. The amount shall be 
credited to the head “XLVI— Miscellaneous — -Miscellaneous”, 

[No. F.2 (18) -CCI/56 — 7541.], 
M. R. BHIDE, Controller of Capital Issues. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 19 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2449. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 (10 of 1949 the Central Government, on the recommenda- 
tion of the Reserve Bank of India, hereby declares that the provisions of section 
11 of the said Act shall not be applicable to banking companies till the expiry 
of the 31st day of October 1957, in so far as the said section would, by reason 
only of the territorial changes and formation of new States under the provisions 
of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956 (37 of 1956), require such banking com- 
panies to have paid-up capital and reserves of an aggregate value which is higher 
than the aggregate value of paid-up capital and reserves which they are required 
to havd under the said section on the 31st day of October 1956. 

[No. 4(145)-F.I/56.J 


New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2450. — In pursuance of section 51 of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 
(10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby notifies the State Bank of Hydera- 
bad for the purpose of the said section. 

[No. F. 7(50)-FI/RO/56.] 


CORRIGENDUM 

S.R.O. 2451. — In the Hyderabad State Bank (Compensation) Rules 1956 
published with S.R.O. No. 2274 in Part II Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extra- 
ordinary dated the 4th October, 1956, the following corrections are to be made: 

(1) On page 2027, for the scmi-colon (;) at the end of rule 2(d) substitute 

a full stop (.), 

(2) On page 2028, in rule 6, line 2, for ‘Excutor’ read ‘Executor’. 

(3) On page 2029, in paragraph 2, line 3, of form ‘A’ of the Schedule, for 

the words ‘I/we’ read 'I/We' and close the brackets after the words. 
‘Signature (s) of the shareholder (s)’. 



i8oo 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 [Part II— Sec- 3 


(4) On page 2030, in item 7 for the word ‘applicant’ read ‘application’. 

(5) On page 2031 in paragraph 1 of form ‘O’ of the Schedule, insert an 

asterisk (*) against T/Wc'. In the foot-note to this form for the 
two plus signs (t) substitute two asterisks ("•*). 

[No. F. 7(41)-FI/RO/5fl.] 

K. P. BISWAS, Under Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 20th October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2452. — In exercise of the powers conferred by item No. 17 of the 
Schedule to the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), 
as extended to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby specifies cloth 
of the following description for the purposes of the said item: — 

“Handloom cloth costing less than one rupee per yard”. 

[No. 6(13)-P(ST)/56.] 

S.R.O. 2453. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
6 of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act 1941 (Bengal Act VI of 1941), as extend- 
ed to the State of Delhi, the Central Government hereby gives three months’ 
notice of its intention to make the following amendments in the Schedule to 
the said Act, namely: — 


In the said Schedule — 

1. For item 0, the following item shall be substituted namely: — 
“9 Gur, molasses and sugar excluding mill made sugar”. 

2. For item 16, the following shall be substituted namely: — 

“15 Edible oils pressed on Ghanig.” 

3. For item 23, the following Item shall be substituted namely: — 
“23 White printing paper, cream-laid paper and newsprint.” 

4. Item 40 shall be omitted. 

5. After item 44, the following items shall be inserted namely: — 


“45. (i) Crudely tanned leather. 

(ii) Country made shoes (Jutics). 
<iii) Hand made utensils. 

<iv) Cane and bamboo handicrafts, 
(v) Earthenwares made by Kumhars, 


When manufactured (i) without the 
ise of power, and (ii) at a place 
other than a factory as defined 
. under the Factories Act and sold 
cither by maker himself or any 
member of his family or by a co- 
operative society of makers of such 
articles. 


46. Achar and murrabba except when sold in sealed containers. 

47. Charkha, takli and charkha accessories. 

48. Black ink, slate, slate pencils and tahkties. 

49. Betel leaves.” 


[No. 6(13)-P(ST)/56,] 
K. PALCHAUDHURI, Dy. Secy. 


(Department of Economic Affairs) 

New Delhi the 27th October 1950 

S.R.O, 2454. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 
26 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (Ii of 1934), and on the recommendation 
pf the Central Board of the Reserve Bank ofTndia, the Central Government hereby 



Part 11-1-Sec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER £7, 1936 i»or 

makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance No, F. 4(50)-F.III/55, dated the 28th April, 1956, namely: 

In the said notification for the words “six months’’, the words “twelve 
months” shall be substituted. 

(No. F, 4(56)-F, 111/55,] 
PREM NARAlN, Under Secy. 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2455. — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution, the President hereby makes the following rules, namely: — 

1. Short title and commencement. — (i) These rules may be called the Central 
civil services (transferred Employees) Rules, 1056. 

(ii) These rules shall be deemed to have come into force in respect of each 
transferred employee, on the date on which such employee was actually taken, 
over, 

2. Definitions. — In those rules, unless the context otherwise requires: — 

(a) ‘Government’ means the Government of India; 

(b) ‘relevant date’ means the date on which a trnsferred employee was 

actually taken over by the Government; 

(c) ‘State’ with its grammatical variations means a Part C State or a State 

merged with a Part A State; 

(d) ‘State Rules’ in relation to an employee mean the rules and orders 

relating to the conditions of service of that employee in force on 
the day immediately preceding the date on which he was actually 
taken over; and 

(e) ‘transferred employee’ means a person who was employed under the 

Government of a Part C State or of a State merged with a Part A 
State and who has been taken over by the Central Government in 
Departments other than the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
in consequence of constitutional changes and the extension of the 
executive authority of the Central Government to that State. 

3. Persons to whom rules apply. — These rules shall apply to transferred 
employees other than those specified in rule 7. 

4. Absorption in an appropriate grade under Government. — A transferred 
employoc shall be fitted into the appropriate grade under the Government with 
effect from the relevant date in accordance with the orders issued by the Govern- 
ment in that behalf and any such employee who is not so absorbed shall continue 
to be governed by the State rules: 

Provided that any modifications in the State Rules after the relevant date 
shall be subject to the specific orders of the Government. 

5. Initial pay. — A transferred employee shall have his initial pay fixed in the 
appropriate grade or post on the Central scales of pay in accordance with the 
orders issued by the Government in that behalf. 

Explanation.— Central scales of pay mean the ‘Prescribed scales’ specified 
in the Central Civil Services (Revision of Pay) Rules, 3 947. 

6. Leave and (Pension, — (I) A transferred employee shall be subject to the 
Revised Leave Rules, 1933, as amended from time to time. The leave lo be 
carried forward on the relevant date and the manner in which leave taken during 
tin nrc-absorption period shall count for pension, shall be determined in accord- 
ance with the orders issued in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum 
No. F.14(4) -Est.III/53-1 , dated the 13th July, 1953, and No. F.7(124i -E.V/53, 
dated the 27th March, 1954, respectively, as amended from time to time. 

(2) A transferred employee who retires before the 17th April, 1950, shall be 
subject to the Pension Rules in the Civil Service Regulations as on the 16th April, 
1950, as for post-1938 entrants. Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th 
April, 1950, shall be subject to the Revised Pension Rules published in the 
Ministry of Financo Office memorundum No. F. 3(1)-Est (Spl)/47, dated the 

17th April, 1950, as applicable to post-1938 entrants, as amended from time to 



THT. GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1936 [Part II— Sec- 3 


iS 02 


time. All the permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred 
employee under the State Government prior to absorption shall be treated as 
permanent or temporary service rendered under the Government: 

Provided that a transferred employee who was subscribing to a Contributory 
Provident Fund shall be brought on to pensionable service under Government 
and thereafter, he shall not be allowed to subscribe to the Contributory Provident 
Fund. The extent to which the past service of such a transferred employee shall 
count towards pension shall be determined with reference to the orders contained 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No, F. 7(47) -E.V/54, dated the 17th 
July, 1954, as amended from time to time. 

Explanation . — For the purposes of this sub-rule, the expression ‘All the 
permanent or temporary service rendered by the transferred em- 
ployee under the State Government prior to absorption’ shall mean 
the total length of service, whether permanent or temporary, 
rendered by a transfetred employee in any Acceding State, a Part 
C State or a Part A State, prior to the date of such absorption. 

(3) A transferred employee who retires before the 17th April, 1950, shall be 
eligible for the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil Pensions 
(Commutation) Rules. Such an employee retiring on or after the 17th April 
1950, shall be eligible to the benefits of commutation of pension under the Civil 
Pension (Commutation) Rules read with th& revised Pension Rules promulgated 
in the Ministry of Finance Office Memorandum No, F 3(l)-Est.(Spl)/47, dated the 
17th April, 1950, as amended from time to time. 

(4) For the purpose of determining the age of retirement for ministerial Gov- 
ernment servants, the provisions of Fundamental Rule 56(b) (ii) shall apply. 

7. Saving, — These rules shall not apply to — 

(a) employees In Railways; 

(b) employees paid from the Defence Services Estimates; 

(c) employees engaged on contract; 

(d) employees not m whole-time employment; 

(e) employees paid out of contingencies; and 

(f) employees absorbed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department. 

[No. F. 12( 1 1 ) -Est.III/56-IL] 
K. S. GANAPATI, Dy. Secy. 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Central Office 

Bombay, the 10 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2456. — In pursuance of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No. 12 ( 13) -FI/47 dated the 25th March, 1947, the Reserve 
Bank hereby directs that the following further amendments shall be made in the 
schedule to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No. F.E.R.A.10/47-R.B. 
dated the 25th March, 1947, namely: — 

In the skid Schedule- 

la) the entry “Hyderabad State Bank” shall be omitted. 

(b) after the entry “Punjab National Bank Ltd.” the entry “State Bank of 
Hyderabad” shall be inserted. 


[No. F.E.R. A. 144/56-R.B.] 
K. G. AMBEGAOKAR, Dy. Governor. 



Par*' 


iMfcc 3f 


TMB'GflaHnor tsr indiai octobwrt , jw» 1803 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (Department of Revenue) 


Dangerous Drugs 
New Delhi , the 17th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2457. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-sections (2) and (3) 
of section 5 of the Dangerous Drugs Act. 19S0 (2 of 1930), the Central Government 
hereby makes the following further amendments in the Central Opium Rules, 
1934, the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) 
■ of sectioiJ 36 of the said Act, namely: — 

In thei said rules: 


1. In clause (a) of rule 2 and in rule 3 the words “Himachal Pradesh and 
Bilaspur” occurring after me word "Rajasthan” shall be omitted and after the 
words “Madhya Bharat”, the word “and” shall be inserted; 


2. for rule 5 the following rule shall be substituted, namely: — 

“5.| Opium shall not be manufactured anywhere in any State to which 
these rules apply save in Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Bharat: 
Provided that with the special permission of the Central Government, 
opium purchased from the Government Factories at Ghazlpur and 
Neemuch may be re-manufactured by or on behalf of a State Gov- 
ernment in the form of tablets or pills for sale as excise opium; 

Provided further that opium mixtures may be manufactured from raw 
opium lawfully possessed by persons authorized by the State Gov- 
ernment under their rules made for the purpose; 


Provided further that confiscated and damaged opium may be re-modelled 
by or on behalf of a State Government with a view to making it fit 
for excise purposes, subject to the condition that the remodelled 

opium shall be in a form enabling it to be distinguished from the 
excise opium Issued from the Government Factories at Ghazlpur 
and Neemuch”. 


3. In rule 6 — 

(a) In Item (i), after the words “at Ghazlpur", the word “and" shall be 
inserted; 

(b) Items (iii) and (iv) shall be omitted; 

4. In rules 7 and 8, the words “and Kotah” occurring after the word “Neemuch” 
. shall be omitted, and aider the word “Ghazipur”, the word “and" shall be inserted. 

[No. 3.] 


Central Excises 

New Delhi, the 27th October 1956 

S.R.O, 2458. — -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Excises and Salt Act, 1944 (1 of 1944), as in force in India and as applied to the 
; State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendment in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely; — 

In rule 210 of the said Rules, after the words, 

“Where no other penalty is provided herein", the words “or in the Act" shall 
he inserted. 


[No. 10-CER/5C.] 
B. D. DESHMUKH, Dy. Secj. 


New Delhi, the 20 th October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2459, — In pursuance of Clause (b) of sub rule (ii) of rule 2 of the 
. Appellate Tribunal Rules, 1948, the Central Government has been pleased to 
. appoint Shri K. B. Bhatnagar, Income-tax Officer, as Authorised Representative 
from the 27th September 1956 afternoon to appear, plead and act for any 
' Income-tax authority, who is a party to any proceedings before the Income-tax 
-Appellate Tribunal. 


[No. 122J 

P. N. DAS GUPTA, Dy. Secy. 



1804 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 [Part H— S*c. £ 


CENTRAL BOARD OP REVENUE 

Land Customs 

New Delhi , the 20 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2460. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Land' 
Customs Act, 1924 (19 of 1924), the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes 
the following further amendment in its notification, No. 22-Customs, dated the 
2nd February, 1952, namely: — 

In the schedule to the said notification, under the heading “C-Land Customs, 
areas under the jurisdiction of the Collector of Land Customs, Calcutta” and 
the sub-heading “24-Parganas District’, after the entry "Ghojadanga”, the: 
following entry shall be inserted, namely: — 


1 2 
Budge Budge 


(a) Budge Budge — Seaidah-Darsadra. 
Railway line passing through . 
Banpur Railway Station. 

(b) Budge Budge-Sealdah — Khulna 

Railway line passing through. 

Bongaon Railway Station. 

(c) The inland waterway from Budge - 

Budge to East Pakistan via 
Beharikhal”. 


[No. 91.] 

S.R.O. 2461. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section : 
3 of the Land Customs Act, 1924 (19 of 1924), read with the notification of the 
Government of India In the late Finance Department (Central Revenues), 
No. 5944, dated the 13th December 1924, the Central Board of Revenue hereby 
makes the following amendment in its notification No. 134-Customs, dated the 27th 
August, 1955, namely: — 

‘‘In the Schedule to the said notification, for the words “in the border dis- 
tricts of Jodhpur and Bikaner, Rajasthan State”, the words "in tho 
districts of Barmar, Bikaner, Ganganagar, Jaisalmer and Jalore in 
the State of Rajasthan” shall be substituted”. 


[No. 92] 


Land Customs 

New Delhi, the 27 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2462. — In exercise of the powers conferred b.y section 4 of the Land' 
Customs Act, 1924 (19 of 1924). the Central Board of Revenue hereby makes the 
following further amendments in its notification No. 22-Customs, dated the 2nd 
February, 1952, namely: — 

In the Schedule annexed to the, said notification under the heading "C-Land 
Customs areas under the jurisdiction of the Collentor of Land Customs, Calcutta" 
the following items and all entries relating thereto shall he omitted, namely: — 

(1) under the sub-heading "MURSHIDABAD DISTRICT”, th 0 items 
“Dhulianganges” and “Katlamari"; 

(ii) under the sub-heading "KRISIINANAGAR DISTRICT”, the item. 
“Sikarpur” and “Betai”; 


(iii) under the sub-heading “24 PARGANAS DISTRICT" the item “Itinda”; 

1 [No, 94.] 



Part II— |5ec. 3} THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1936 1805 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 20 th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2463. — In the Notification of the Central Board of Revenue, No. CER 
17S(I)/56(S.R.O. 1986), dated the 1st September 1956, published in the Gazette 
of India, I Part II, Section 3, dated the 8th September, 195 j, for heading in 
column 3 of the Schedule, namely, “Reviewing Authority”, read “Renewing 
Authority”. 

S. K. BHATTACHARJEE, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2464. — The following draft of a further amendment in the Coal Mines 
Pit head Bath Rules, 1946, which the Central Government purposes to make ia 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of section 58 of the Mines Act, 1052 
135 of 1952), is published, as required by sub-Section (1) of section 99 of the said 
Act, for the information of ail persons likely to be affected thereby; and notice Is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
31st January, 1957. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 


Draft Amendment 

In sub-rule (1) of rule 3, for the word “thereat”, the following words shall be 
substituted, namely; — 

“on a suitable site selected by him with the previous approval of the com- 
petent authority." 

[CAf,P.B./Am(2).] 
[File No. M. 41(38)/ 55.] 


New Delhi, the 22 nd October 1956 

S.R.O, 2465. — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of section 58 
of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Coal Mines pithead Bath Riules, 1946, the 
same having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of section 59 
of the said Act, namely: — - 

In rule 3 of the said Rules: — 

(i) in sub-rule (1), for the words “owner of every coal mines shall,” the 

following words shall be substituted, namely. — 

‘owner agent or manager of every coal mine shall within such period as 
may be specified by the competent authority’*, 

(ii) in clause (ill) of sub-rule (1), after the word ‘owner’, the comma and 
I words”, agent or manager” shall be inserted, 

(iii| sub-rule (2) shall be omitted and the existing sub-rule (3) shall be re- 
numbered as sub-rule (2). 

2. In sub-rule (1) of rule 7 and sub-rule (2) of rules 8 and 10, after the word 
‘owner’, the comma and words”, agent or manager” shall be inserted. 

3. In sub-rule (1) and (2) of rule 9, the words "of the prescribed type" shall be 
omitted. 


C.M.P.B./Ad(l). 
[File No. M-41 (15) 54.] 
P, D. COMMAR, Under Becy. 


New Delhi, the 16th October 1956 

S.R.O. 2466.— In pursuance of clause (a) of suh-paragraph (1) of paragraph 
4 of the Employees Provident Funds Scheme 1952, the Central Government 
hereby nominates Shri A. D, Pande, I.A.S., Secretary to the Government of 



i8o6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 185® [Part II— Sec. S- 


Uttar Pradesh, Labour Department, Lucknow, to be the Chairman of the. Re- 
gional Committee, Employees’ Provident Fund, vice Shri Radha Kant, I.A.S.,, 
who has resigned his Chairmanship and directs that the following amendment 
shall be made in the. notification of Government of India, In the Ministry of 
Labour, No. S.R.O, 1357 dated the 15th April 1954, namely: — 

In the said notification, for item No. 1, the following item shall be substituted, 
namely: — 

“1. Shri A. D .Pande, I.A.S. , Secretary to the Government of Uttar 
Pradesh, Labour Department, Lucknow." 

[No. P.F. 45(12)/60.] 


New Delhi, the 20th October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2467 /PWA/14/N.l/Am. -4/56. — In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (3) of section 14 read with section 24 of the Payment of Wages Act, 
1936 (4 of 1936), the Central Government hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, No. S.R.O. 232, dated the 12th January 1954, namely: — 

In the said notification— 

Existing entries 14 to 33 shall be respectively renumbered as 15 to 34, and- 
after 13, the following shall be inserted, namely: 

"14. The Conciliation Officer (Central), Jharsugada.” 

[No. Fac. 103(26)/5BJ 


New Delhi, the 23rd October 1950 
ERRATA 

S.R.O. 2468. — The following errata to the notification of the Government of' 
India in the Ministry of Labour No. S.R.O. 2315, dated the 8th October 1956, publish- 
ed at pages 2039 — 2062 of part II, Section 3 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary 
dated the 9th October 1950, is published for general information: — 

(1) Clause 4(2) — 

In the third line, for “be” read “by". 

(2) Clause IJ(e) ( iii ) — 

In the first line in the word “Attendance” for capital A Substitute small a. 

(3) Clause 12, 

In the first line, for "consist" read "consists”. 

(4) Clause 24 — 

In the sixth line, for "obdy" read “Body". 

(5) Clause 31(2)— 

In the fourth line, for "preceeding years” read “preceding year”, 

(0) Clause 45(1) (ii)( b) — 

In the third line, after the word "removed”, add “from the employers’ 
register”. 

(7) Clause 45(2)(b) — 

For "writings” read "writing”, 

(8) Clause 53(2) — 

For “of” occurring after “gratuity” read "to". 

(9) Schedule II — 

(i) In the third line, for “preceeding" read "preceding’’, 

(ii) In item (a), for "men-shifts” read "man-shifts”. 

(ill) In Column 3 of the entries below item (b) delete the brackets. 

[No. DC- 140.] 
R, C. SAKSENA, Under Secy. 



Paiit II-HSec. 3] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1950 1807 


New Delhi, the 23 rd October 1956 

S.R.O. 2469. — In pursuance of sub-section (1) of section 86 of the Employees’ 
State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948), the Central Government hereby authorises 
all the Begitnal Directors of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation to institute 
prosecutions or accord previous sanction to prosecutions under the said Act. 

[F. No. HI-l(ll)/58.j 

B, R. KHANNA, Unde r Secy. 


New Delhi, the 22nd October, 1956 

S.R.O. 2470. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
(14 of 1047), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, in the dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindustan Mercantile Bank Limited, Calcutta and their workmen. 


INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE NO. 1 OF 1956 

In the matter of an industrial dispute existing between Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Ltd., Calcutta and their workmen. 

Present 

Shri R. K. Basu — Sole Member. 


Appearances 

For the Company: — Shri S. N, Chowdhary. 

For the Workmen:— Shri Probhat Kar with Shri H. L. Parwana. 

Dated the 27th September, 1956 
AWARD 

Under a Notification No. LR-100 (20)/55 dated 16th June, 1956, the Govern- 
ment of India (Ministry of Labour) constituted an Industrial Tribunal in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 7 read with section 10 of the Industrial Dis- 
putes Act (XIV of 1947) consisting of myself (R. K. Basu) as sole member 
thereof for adjudication of an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd., Calcutta and their workmen. The 
dispute was in relation to the retrenchment of a workman of the Bank named 
Shri H. N. Bhowmik on and from 12th January, 1955. In the dispute the work- 
man concerned has been represented by the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank- 
Employees Union. The Union's contention is that Shri H. N. Bhowmik was wrong- 
fully retrenched and that he was entitled to reinstatement with all arrears of 
pay. The Bank has resisted the claim contending inter alia that Shri Bhowmik 
is not a workman and that the Union cannot take up his case. In course of 
conciliation proceedings an agreement was arrived at between the Bank and the 
Union to the following effect: — 

“Parties to the above industrial dispute have agreed to apply in the pres- 
cribed manner jointly for a reference to the dispute to the appropriate 
Government for referring the dispute to the Tribunal under section 
10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act. The reference to the Tribunal 
will be whether Shri H. N. Bhowmik is a ‘workman’ and Union can 
take up his case.” 

In connection with the reference parties were notified to submit their respective 
written statements, In the written statement filed by the Union, it has been 
prayed that Shri H. N. Bhowmik be declared a ‘workman’ and that the Hindusthan 
Mercantile Bank Employees Union is quite competent to represent him and second- 
ly that Shri H. N. Bhowmik be reinstated in his original post with continuity 
of service including all privileges regarding Leave, Bonus, Increments, Provident 
Fund, Gratuity etc. and with all arrears of salary and allowances from the date 
of discharge to the date of reinstatement. The Bank in its rejoinder repelled the 
Union’s contention and prayed that the Union’s demand be dismissed, 

The case is fixed for hearing to day the 27th September 1950, Both parties 
have appeared, Shri S. N. Roy Chowdhary for the Company and Shri Pravat 
Kar with H. L. Parvana for the Union. Both parties pray that the case be dis- 



i8o8 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1958 [P/lrt II— Sec. 3 


posed of and an award be made in accordance with the terms of settlement agreed 
between the parties. The memorandum of settlement dated 26th September 1966 
signed by the representatives of the parties has been filed. The Bank has accepted 
it that Shri H. N. Bhowmik is a workman within the definition of the terms of the 
Industrial Disputes Act. The Bank has further recognised the competency of 
the Union to represent the workman, Shri H. N. Bhowmik and the Bank has 
agreed according to the memorandum of settlement to reinstate Shri H. N. 
Bhowmik in service without any change of status and with continuity of service. 
The Bank has also agreed to pay to Shri Bhowmik compensation for the period 
of unemployment and to accord other benefits as detailed in the memorandum 
of settlement. 

Both parties have prayed that the terms of settlement as recorded to the 
memorandum of settlement be accepted and an award be made on these terms 
making the memorandum of settlement a part of the award. 

I feel convinced that the parties have arrived at settlement as a result of 
mutual discussion and agreement. There is nothing objectionable in the terms 
of settlement. 

In the result, I decide the reference and make an award in terms of memoran- 
dum of settlement, which is to form a part of the award. 

Parties are left to bear their own cost. 


R. K. Basu. Sole Member. 
Industrial Tribunal. 


MEMORANDUM OP SETTLEMENT 
Present 

For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Limited, Head Office, Calcutta. — Shri 
H. L. Goswamy. . . 

For the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employees’ Union Calcutta. — Shri Prabhat 
Kar. 

1 As a result of the termination of the services of Shri H. N. Bhowmik an 
industrial dispute existed between the management of the Hindusthan Mercantile 
Bank Limited, Calcutta and the Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employees union, 
Calcutta The Government of India referred this dispute to Shri R. N. Basu, 
Industrial Tribunal (Central), Calcutta for adjudication. The said dispute is at 
present pending before the Honourable Tribunal for adjudication as reference No. 
1 of 1960. 

2 After discussions both the parties to the dispute have arrived at the follow- 
ing settlement and agree that this memorandum of settlement be filed before 
the Tribunal with a request to award the same accordingly. 

3. The Bank agrees that: — 

fal Shri H N Bhowmik will be reinstated in its services without any 
change in his status and with continuity of services; treating him 
as a ‘workman’ within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act. 


(b) 


frt From the date of his reinstatement Shri H. N. Bhowmik will be entitled 
+ 0 the benefits of the pay scales and allowance as laid down in the 
award at present in force. The scheme of adjustment of salary will 
apply to him as if he was all along in the service of the Bank. 


Shri H N Bhowmik will be paid the compensation for the unemploy- 
ment period i e, Rs. 185 p.m. for 3 months and 6 days being Rs. 586-13-3 
(Rupees Five Hundred eighty five annas thirteen and pies three only) . 



PabL II — Sec, 3] 


THE GAZETTE 61- INDIA, OCTOBER 27, 1956 i8q$ 


(d) Shri H. N. Bhowmik will be paid Rs. 80 being the Puja Ex-gratia 
payment for the year 1955 and will be entitled to receive the Ex- 
gratia payment for the year 1956. 


(e) Shri H, N. Bhowmik is to report for duty by the 16th of October 1956. 

(Sd.) Prabhat Kar, 

Representative 

Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Employee Union. 

Calcutta. 


(Sd.) H. L. GosWamy, 

Chief Accountant, 
Representative 

Hindusthan Mercantile Bank Ltd., 
Calcutta. 

Calcutta, 26th September, 1958. 


[No. LR.100(20)/S5.] 


F. M. NATHANIEL, Under Secy. 


ministry of information and broadcasting 

ORDER 


New Delhi-2, the 17 th October 1950 


8 


I.R.O. 2471- — The Central Government hereby: — 

(a) directs, in pursuance of the provisions of the order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S.K.O. 
3805 dated the 2fith December, 1955 and in modification of Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broad- 
casting No S.R.O. 1008 dated the 23rd April, 1956, that the Advisory 
Panel of the Central Board of Film Censors at Madras shall consist 
of 33 members with effect from 17th October, 1950. 


(b) appoints after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors the 
following persons as members ol the Advisory Panel of the said Board 
at Madras with effect from the 17th October, 1956 in exercise of the 
powers conferred by sub-rule (3) of rule 9 read with sut>rule (1) of 
rule 10 of the Cinematograph (Censorship) Rules. 1951- — 


1. Shri K. P. Adiga, 

2. Dr. U. Sripathi R’au. 

3. Shri Gopi Nath Amam. 

[No. 14/4/56-FC).] 
B, S. DASARATHY, Dy. Secy. 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS, 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OP PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1956 




