For 


to 222 


RHUISTERED No. D . 222 


भारतको राजपा 
The Gazette of Judit 


प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


FS 1] 
No. 11 


Af farment, efter , TTT 2 , 1971 14h 12, 1892 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, JANUARY 1 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1897 


इस गग में भित्र पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह प्रमग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separato paging Leglven to this part in order that it may be alled 

as a separate compilation , 


at II - - 3- - 3993 ( ii) 

PART II — Section 8 - Sub -section (ü ) 
( रभा मंत्राय को छोड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रा यों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासा ने छोड़कर ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणों द्वारा जारी किये गए विधिक पावेश और अधिसूचनाए । 
Statutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Goverd . 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


VE 


ELECTION COMMISSION OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 
S . O , 1 .- In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 116C of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes 
the judgment of the Supreme Court of India dated the 16th October , 1970 , in 
appeal against the Order dated the 28th March , 1968 of the High Court of Judica 
Gure . Andhra Pradesh , at Hyderabad in Election Petition No. 20 of 1967. 

IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA 

CIVIL APPELLATE JURIDICTION 
Civil Appeal No. 1486 of 1968 

Appellant. 
Versus 
N . G . RANGA 

Respondent. 
JUDGMENT 
SHAP , J. - At a bye- election held in April 1967 to elect a member of the Lok 
abha rom the Srikakulam Parliamentary constituency there were two contesting 
Candidaies Boddepalli Rajagopala Rao - hereinar fer called the appellant and 


mimate B . R . RAO 


- 


Aby 


Di 


Dit 


. 


2 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART 1 


N . G . Ranga - hereinafter called the respondent . The respondent was declared 
elected . The appel. ant filed an application in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh 
to set aside the election of the respondent on the ground that the respondoat had 
committed diverse corupt practices described in s . 123 ( 1 ) ( A ) ( a ) , ( b ) , ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) 
of the Representation of the People Act , 1951. The respondent denied inc allega 
tions made in the petition . He a . so submitted that the allegations were vague 
and indefinite and some of those allegations did not constitute any coriupt practice 
within the meaning of the Representation of the People Act , 1951. The appellant 
umended the Petition and submitted particulars of certain corrupt practices set out 
in the original petition . The appellant then filed his additional written statement. 
The High Court held on a detailed consideration of the evidence that the corrupt 
practices alleged by the appellant in the petition were not proved , and dismissed 
the petition . The appellant has appealed to this Court under s . 116A of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

Counsel for the appellant restricted his argument to the following charges det 
out in the petition : 
( 1 ) A charge of bribery in respect of an amount of Rs. 4 ,000 paid to a 

Candidate in the election as gratification for not standing for election , 
Rs . 10 , 000 for constructing a high school building in the village 
Kothakota with the object of inducing the voters in the village and 
three other contiguous polling stations to vote for him ; and Rs. 1, 000 
paid for completing the excavation of a well in consideration of promise 
of votes for the respondent. Thereby corrupt practices of bribery 

within the meaning of 8 . 123 (IA ) & ( IB ) were committed ; 
( 2 ) Providing on the day of polling a number of motor -vehicles for the free 

transport of voters to the polling stations, and especialıy motor - jeep 
NO, APK - 9486 , motor- lorry No , APK 9250, motor - lorry No. APG - 3511 
and motor -bus No. APS - 1315 . Thereby a corrupt practice under 

5 . 123 (5 ) was committed ; 
( 3 ) Causing the printing and publication of a leaflet containing false and 

defamatory statements in relation to the personal character of the 
appellant. Copies of the leaflet were distributed at several meetings 
held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam and other places . The 
respondent and his election agent also exhorted , with the object of 
turnishing the image of the appellant and lowering him in the estima 
tion of the voters , the voters at those meetings not to vote for the 
appellant who it was alleged had misappropriated public funds. 
Thereby the respondent committed a corrupt practice under s . 123 ( 4 ) 

of the Representation of the People Act. 
(4 ) That the account of the expenditure returned by the respondent did not 

disclose many items of expenditure which were incurred in connection 
with the election . The respondent bad expended a sum excecding 
Rs. 3 Jakhs, and the expenditure returned was a gross under - estimate 
of the expenses incurred by the respondent in connection with his 
election . Therehy he committed a corrupt practice uncler s . 123 ( 6 ) 

read with s . 77 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 
In respect of the charge of bribery there were three heads - ( 1 ) that the respondent 
And his election agent G . Latchanna induced one Suvari Sanyasi Apparao not to 
eland as a candidate at the election by paying him Rs. 4 . 000 as gratification . 
According to the appellant Suvart Sanyasi Apparao who was defeated in the 
contest for a seat in the Legislative Assembly of Andhra Pradesh in the general, 
elections held in 1982 and February , 1957, intended to contest for the Lok Sabha 
Scat in the bye - election and was canvassing support before the appointed date for 
Aling nominations, but the respondent and his election agent at a meeting 
on March 29, 1967 in the travellers bungalow at Amadalavalasa dissuaded 
Suvari Sanyasi Apparao from contesting the election in consideration of payment 
of Rs. 4 , 000 . This was denied by the respondent. In support of his case the 
appellant examined Suvari Sanyasi Apparao P . W . 24 and B . Suryanarayana P . W . 25 . 
He relied also upon two documents Exts . P -41 and P -83. In rebuttal the respondent 
relied upon his own testimony and of his election agent Lațchhana. Suvari Sanyasi 
Apparao was also examined as a witness R . W . 2 . The respondent examined a 
number of other witnesses K . Chalapatirao Patnaik RW I, Bendi Appala Suri RW 
3 , Dola Jagannatha Rao , R . W . 6 , Sylada Pyditalli Naidu R . W . 9 . B . Achuta Raju 
R . W . 10 . B Narayana Swamy R . W . 15 , Kolaganti Sathi Raju RW , 25 and Gokina 
Chandra Rao R . W . 26 and relied upon certain documents. The two witnesses 
examined on behalf of the appellant deposed to the circumstances Icading to their 
presence at Amendalavalaga Travellers bungalow and payment of Rs. 4 , 000 to Suvari 
Banyasi Apparao by Latchanna after the respondent and Latchanna had requested 


Sec. 3 ( ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


3 


. 


him not to file the nomination paper and to help the respondent in the election . 
The learned Trial Judge made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that 
there were " contradications and material discrepancies in the statements of the 
witnesses for the appellant, and that the statements of the witnesses " did not 
inspire confidence " . The burden of proving that the respondent and his election 
agent went to Amadalavalasa travellers bungalow and persuaded Suvari Sanyasi 
Apparao not to file his nonination paper in consideration of receiving a bribe Jay 
upon the appellant. The two witnesses examined on his behalf are, as found by 
the Iligh Court . " highly interested and their testimony was rebutted by the 
witness named by him as the persons present at the time. Besides , the evidence 
of the witnesses as found by the High Court was discrepant and did not accord 
with probabilities . Both the oral and documentary evidence falsifled it. There 
were inherent improbabilities in the allegation Itself." No substantial argument 
was advanced before us to persuade us to take a different view , 

( ii) In respect of the charge of bribery of Rs. 10 , 000 , it was alleged in the 
petition that Latchhana, election agent of the respondent visited Kothakota at 
8 . 00 P . M . on April 28 , 1967 and paid Rs. 10 , 000 to one D . Jaganatha Rao a resident 
of that village for constructing a high school building in that vilage. The pay 
ment, it was said , was made with the object of inducing the voters of Kothakota 
and three contiguous polling stations to vote for the respondent. This was denied 
by the respondent. In support of the allcgation the appellant examined Dhavaia 
Appalla Suri P . W . 7 , Kusumanchi Adinarayana P . W . 8 , Calala Ramulu P . W . I and 
Ambala Appalla Suri P . W . 11 and relied upon some documentary evidence also . 
In answer the respondent examined himself , his election agent and witnesses 
K . Chalapatirao Patnaik , R . W . 1, Dola Jagannatha Rao RW . 6 , D . Kondaith 
Choudari R . W . 8 and Alla Venkaturao RW . 16 and relied upon certain documentary 
evidence . On a consideration of the evidence the learned judge observed that 
the entire oral evidence in support of the appellant s case was " highly discrepant" 
and did not "merit credence " , The High Court observed that the petition did 
not refer to the place of incident, whether it was rice mill premises or outside the 
rice mill where the payment is alleged to have been made. While some of the 
witnesses sald it was rice nil premises itself, others said that it was near the 
rice mill " . The High Court also observed that " apart from the Interested nature 
and the fact that their testimony was replete with material contradictions, there 
were inherent improbabi ities in the story told , which made it highly diſcult to 
accept the testimony" . After considering the testimony of the respondent and his 
witnesses the Court observed that the oral testimony on behait of the appellant 
was inconsistent and did not make out a case of corrupt practice , that the pro 
babilities of the case were strongly against the appellant s contention and there 
was no reason to disbelieve the testimony of the witnesses for the respondent. 
Even in respect of this charge of corrupt practice no argument seeking to persuade 
us to take a different view was advanced by counsel for the appellant. 

(111 ) In respect of the third head of the charge of bribery , it was alleged by the 
appellant in his petition that at Pathokota a village falling within the limits of 
Budarsingi polling iption the respondent and his ecction agent convened an 
election meeting on April 23, 1967, that the villagers assembled at that meeting 
requested the respondent to donate a sum of Rs. 1,000 to coinplete the excavation 
of a well in return for their votes , and that as directed by the respondent on the 
same day at about 5 - 00 P . M . Nagineni Venkayya agent of the respondent paid 
Rs. 1 ,00 to Biridhar and Judisti, members of the village Youth League in the 
presence of the Sirnainch and village elders . In support of this plea the app llant 
examiner! Khanda Judishtra Kumnaio P . W 17 and Chinchalam Satyanarayana 
P . W . 18 In rebuttal, the respondent examined himself , his election agent 
Latchhanna , Kavuri Venkaiah R . W . 28, Giridhar Kumar R . W . 13 of village 
Patakota and two others of the same village Harinarayan Dolao R . W . 17 and 
Nansing Mumarao R . W , 18 . On a consideration of the evidence the Court held 
that the evidence on behalf of the appellant was " marred by improbabilities , and 
It could not be Arcepted . Again the evidence for the respondent in the view of the 
High Court was " 21cient to disprove the corrupt practice " alleged . The High 
Court held that the corrupt practice was accordingly not established even in respect 
of this head of charge. Counsel did not urge any substantial argument to persuade 
us to take a different view . 

The charge of corrupt practice under s . 123 (5 ) arose out of the allegation that 
Latchanna produced a number of lorries, jeeps, motor - cars , buses and other vehicles , 
for free transport of voters to the poiling stations on the date of polling. It was 
averted in the petition that Jeep No. APK -9486 was used for the free transport of 
voters between 10 - 00 A . M , and 2 . 00 PM , on the polling day from Killol village and 
Killoi colony to the polling station at Konkadapatti, The jeep , it was said , carried 
the Swatantra Party Flag as well as the agent of the respondent one Dunkury 
Mangules . This was witnessed by the Presiding Officer , among others , when a 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 137 / rmus ! 12, 1892 [PART II — 


complaint was made by the agent of the appelant Nadia Najko to the Presiding 
Officer . In support of this plea of corrupt practice the appellant examined three 
witnesses Papi Naidu , Presiding QHcer P . W . 10 , Hadia Naiko P . W . 20 and 
D . Ramamurthy P . W . 26 . The respondent denied that the jeep APK - 9486 was used 
for transporting voters as alleged . According to him the vehicle belonged to the 
Swatantra Party and stood registered in the name of Narayan Dandekar Secretary 
of the Party . 

D . Ramamurthy P . W . 26 was examined on behalf of the appellant in support of 
his case on this plea of currupt practice. The witness said that the jeep was 
entrusted to him at Sompata to deliver it to Dunkuru Mungalo , Poliing agent of 
the respondent at Konkadaputti. According to the witness it was jeep 
No . APK 9486 which Latchanna had brought from " Guntur side for purposes of 
election , that the jcep was delivered to the polling agent for bringing voters from 
neighbouring villages to the polling booths, that the jeep was used for that purpose 
from 10 A . M . to 2 .00 PM , and that he reached Konkadaputti at 8 - 30 AM , and 
remained near the polling station till 2 - P . M . asking voters to vote for the " Star 
Symbol" of the Swatantra Party. The learned Judge observed that the witnesses 
" did not impress him as a witness of truth and it was impossible to place reliance 
upon his testimony " . Hls story that the voters were transported free of charge in 
the jeep to the pol,ing station on the date of polling could not therefore be believed . 

Papi Naidu , the Presiding Omcer , stated that a complalnt was lodged by the 
agent of the appellant that the voters were being brought by the supporters of the 
Swatantra Party to the polling station . The witness also stated that he saw voters 
getting down thc jeep and joining the queue and that there were 7 or 9 such voters . 
But the witness admitted that the people who were getting down thc jecp were not 
known to him , that he had no opportunity to get them identified , that they had 
joined the queue but whether they were yoters or not he could not say , that he 
asked the agent to put his complaint in writing but that was not done, and that 
the agent was not known to him and he had never even seen him afterwards. The 
witness did not mention this incident in the report " as such complaints were not 
usually mentioned at all." He did not glve the number of the jeep , ror did he 
state that he had seen the Swatantra flag on the jeep . He could not vouch for 
the fact that those who alighted were voters or that they had voted at that polling 
station . In the view of the learned judge the testimony of Papi Naidu , P . W . 10 , 
did not satisfy ail the component elements of the corrupt practice alleged ." 


Hadia Naiko was the polling agent of the appellant. He stated that Dunkurit 
Mongalo was bringing voters from Killoi Colony and Killot village between 10 A . M . 
and 2 PM , seeking this he told Dunkuro Mungalo that it was not proper for him 
to bring the voters in jeep cars and when the latter asserted that he had a right 
to do so , he complained " to the Presiding Officer who asked for a written complaint 
which he could not comply with as he was not proficient enough to write one and 
none on behalf of the appellant had come who could do the needful." The 
witness did not give the number of the jeep nor the names of the voters . In the 
view of the learned Judge “ Procurement of the jeep for free conveyance was not 
proved ." The High Court observed that it was unnecessary to discuss the evidence 
on behalf of the respondent for the appellant had failed to establish the corrupt 
practice aleged . The next head under this charge of corrupt practice as alleged 
by the appellant related to the use of motor - lorry No , APK -9250 which was flying 
the Swatantra Party flag and was used for free transport of voters on the polling 
day between 10 A . M . and 4 P . M . from the surrounding villages to the polling 
station at Guttavalii. During one of the trips , it was said , there ensued a free 
fight betwęen the persons who were carried by the lorry and cthers who were 
present near the polling station as the former raised slogans acclaiming the res 
pondent and denouncing the appellant. A complaint was given to the police by 
some of the voters that they were helng conveyed in the lorry , two of those voters 
being Kotta Appanna and Sarpanch Sinupanapalaum . It was admitted therein 
that while they were being transported for exercising their vote for the respon 
dent there was obstruction from the supporters of the appellant Sanapalli Manumula 
Appalaw and his son and that a free fight ensued . The respondent denied these 
allegations. In support of the allegations, the appellant examined Kolla Appanna 
P . W . 12 , Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P . W . 16 , Sanapala Narsinha Rao P . W . 21, Sanapall 
Raja Rao P . W . 24 and P . Chandra Rao P . W , 27 . In rebuttal the respondent examined 
Jammana Jogi R . W . 7 , Carimalla Kameswara Ran R . W . 11 and Dannana Appanna 
R . W . 23 and relied upon " the first information " which was lodged about the 
fight. The High Court analysed the evidence of the witnesses on behalf of the 
appellant. In regard to the testimony of Kolla Appanna P . W . 12 the High 
Court observed that his assertion that he went in a lorry was highly doubt 
ful" and that the story deposed to by the witness was " palpably false " , that the 
story that the witness Gedala Lakshmi Naidu P . W . 16 that he travelled by the 


SEC . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


5 


lorry was " open to doubl” , that testimony of Ganapala Narasimha Rao who is 
" closely related " to the appellant " was tainted " , and that the evidence of Sanapali 
Raja kao P . W 24 was also " not believable " . On a review of the evidence the High 
Court observed that the number of the lorry was not given by any of the witnesses, 
and there was no eviderce about its ownership . There was again no evidence " as 
to lis procurement for free conveyance" and " the alleged use of the vehicle for free 
conveyance was, therefore not cstablished . Thus the contention as to the alleged 
incidence must be held against the appellant." 

The third branch under this head related to the use of motor -lorry No . APG - 3911 
and motor -bus No. APS- 1315. It was alleged in the petition that the two vehicles 
were " flying the Swatantra Party flag " and were used for transporting voters free 
of charge on the polling day to Torrivandan polling station from Buruinwada and 
Appanyaturu that a report was lodged by Boyana Kanakaiah and B . Mamaray to 
the police Sub - Inspector of Kothun who was on election duty at Sarnakota stating 
that a number of voters were being carried by lorry No , APG - 3911 and bus No. 
APS- 1315 to vote for the respondent, that the Sub Inspector recorded the state 
ment of the bus conductor , the lorry driver and other persons and that a mediation 
report was also prepared in that connection . The respondent denied the alega 
tions. In his additional written statement he also pleaded that there was absence 
of essential particulars relating to the names of the voters and that the fetition 
did not disc ose a cause of action since the allegations did not make out a corrupt 
practice . In support of his case the appellant relied upon his own cvidence and 
the evidence oť the witnesses Boyana Kanakiah P . W . 13 and Boyina Kama Raju 
P . W . 14 . It was the case of the appellant that those witnesses had seen the inci 
dent and had given a report promptly to the Sub - Inspector of Police , and that Sub 
Inspector had detained the motor - lorry and bus and got a mediators report prepared . 
But the Sub - Inspector of Police to whom the report is alleged to have been made 
was (though cited as a witness) not examined in the casc and the report or the 
proceeding started pursuant thereto were not brought on the record . After the 
evidence was closed the appelant applied for calling the Sub - Inspector as a Court 
Witness but the application was rejected . Boyana Kanakiah P . W . 13 and Boyina 
Kama Raju P . W 14 are cousins of the appellant. In their evidence they did not 
specify the persons who used the said lorry and bus on behalf of the respondent, 
nor did their evidence discose the names of the voters conveyed by the said lorry 
or bus . 

In the view of the High Court the conditions of a corrupt practice falling within 
the meaning of s . 123 ( 5 ) of the Representation of the People Act were not 
established . The High Court pointed out that even if it be held that what Boyana 
Kanaklah P . W . 13 and Boyina Kama Raju P . W , 14 said that certain persons 
travelled by the lorry and bus was true unless it was established that the voters 
were taken to and from the po ling stations at the instance of the respondent, no 
charge of corrupt practice can be deemed to be made out for not a single person 
was named and no person was brought before the Court to prove that he travelled 
in the bus or the lorry. The High Court held that the case set up in respect of the 
two vehicles was also not established . 


The finding of the learned Trial Judge is based upon appreciation of evidence 
of the witnesses in the light of probabilities . A charge of corrupt practice under 
the Representation of the People Act must be established by clear and cogent 
evidence . When the Court of First Instance on a consideration of the evidence of 
the witnesses has refused to place any reliance upon their testimony the burden 
lying upon the party setting up a plea of corrupt practice becomes no lighter in 
appeal. The charge cannot be held established merely upon suspicion , or prepon 
dorance of probabilities . Unless the appeilant establishes that the appreciation of 
evidence was vitiated by gross misreading or misconception of the evidence or 
because of failure to consider important pieces of evidence which had a bearing 
on the charge of because of serious irregularities in procedure which amount to a 
denial of a fair trial the appellate court will not proceed to reappreciate the 
evidence on which the Andings are recorded by the Court of First Instance on the 
crcdibility of witnesses. 

The third head of charge relates to the printing and publication of a leafflet 
defamatory of thc appellant and falling within s.123 ( 4 ) of the Act, it was stated 
in the petition that one Dola Jagannatha Rao Agent of the respondent caused the 
printing and publication at the instanre of the protinn agent of the respondent of A 
leallet containing the following false and defamatory statements in relation to the 
personal character of the appellant : 
(a ) that the appellant misappropriated large amounts to the tune of about 

Rs. 60 lakhs balonging to the Co - operative Sugar Factory and the Co 
operative Central Bank for his own ends; 


6 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 ( Part II 


(b ) That the Supreme Court confirmed the Order of the High Court sen 

tencing the appellant for contempt of Court the leattet posed the 
question whether the Congress Party could not get a candidate with 

better character and record of selfless public service ? 
The appellant said that the leaflet was printed at Sri Ramakrishna Printing works 
at Srikakulam and the printing expenses thercoll amounting to Rs. 85 were accord 
ing to the appellant defrayed by the election agent of the respondent, that the 
election agent of the respondent caused the distribution of those leaílcts at several 
meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam at 9 - 00 P . M . on April 24 , 
1967 , at Mandasa at 6 - 00 P . M . on April 21, 1967, at Takkali at 7 -00 P . M . on April 
20 , 1967 and at Palasa at 11- 00 A .M . on April 21, 1967 and at other places to 
sponsor the candidaíure of the respondent to a seat in the Parliament. It was 
further averred that the respondent and his election agent exhorted the people 
at those mectings not to vote for a person who had misappropriated public funds. 
The respondent denied that he and his election agent had knowledge or had con 
sented to , or were concerned with the leaflet , its printing , publishing and dis 
tribution . He a so denied that he or his election ageni exhoited the voters as 
alleged by the appellant . 


The leaflet in question is in the form of several interrogations. The caption 
of the leaflet in " Peoples Questionnaire to the Respected Minister, " The relevant 
part oľ the leaflet is ; 
" 1 . Did not 18 gentlemen including Andhra Pradesh Congress Secretary 

Srikuklapu Lokshammana Das, District Board President Sri Gorie 
Sriramulu Naidu . Ex -Assembly member Sri Andhavarapu Tavitayya , 
Sri Challa Narasimbulu Naidu and others, present a memorandum in 
June 1966 to the Chiet Minister and to the Minister for Co -operation 
stating that Sri Boddepalli Rajagopala Rao , who is to contest as a 
Congress Party candidate in the Srikakulam Parliamentary Consti 
tuency byc -election on the 27th of this month , had misused like water 
nearly 60 lakhs of rupees of governmental nionles and peoples monies 
belonging to Co -operative Sugar Factory , District Co -operative Cen 
tral Bank and such other Co - operative institutions which were treated 
as his own and managed under his control ? What uction has been 

taken against it by the Government ? 
2 . Did not your Government appoint the Regional Onlcer of Co -operative 

Societies , Panchayati Samiti, Amadalayalasa , to inquire into the affairs 
of the Gandhi Building Society which is managed under the control 
of Sri Boddepalli Narayana Murthy who is the brother of Rajagopala 
Rao, member of the Legislative Assembly ? Could any body deny 
the fact that when that officer brought to light the inner secrets and 
brought them to the notice of the Government, the Government on 
the ground that that officer did not obey their lastructions, brought 
him out in the mid -night, beat him almost to death and broke his 
legs and thrown him on the road ? Is he not still in the hospital ? 
When he complained to the polico authorities , what action has been 
taken ? Is there no protection under your Government to your officers 

who are just and impartial? 
3 . Did not the Supreme Court confirm the fine of Rs. 500 imposed by the 

High Court on Rajagopala Rao for contempt of Court because he 
flouted the orders of the High Court in that he by force , oppressive 
behaviour and threat to the Factory Manager , forcibly took all ballot 
papers and himself , acting as an Officer , conducted the Sugar Factory 
elections in an irregular manner ? When it is clearly stated in thr 
Co - operative Act that such persons should not be even primary 
members in Co -operative societies , could you tell how this perso 
could still be in the governing body of co -operative societies ? 


Could you not get a candidate who is better and who could render selfless service 
to people ? Of course , it is difficult to get men of High and moral Calibre in the 
1907 model congress ? 


Section 123 (4 ) of the Representation of the People Act , 1951 , defines one of 
the corrupt practices , as under: 
" The publication by a candidate or his election agent or by any other person 

with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement 
of fact which is false , and which he either believes to be false or does 


Sec. 3( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 18927 
= = = - -- - - -- 

- = 

= = = 
not believe to be true, in relation to tho personal character or con 
duct of any candidate , or in relation to the candidature , or with 
drawal, of any candidate , being a statement reasonably calculated to 

prejudice the prospects of the candidate s clection . " 
Tu constitute a corrupt practice under s . 123 ( 4 ) four conditions are required 
to be fulflled ; ( 1 ) that there should be publication of a statement of lact relating 
tu the personal character or conduct of the candidate ; ( 2 ) that the statenient should 
be false ; ( 3 ) that the person moking it shuid either believe it to be false or 
should not believe it to be true and that the statement was reasonabuy calculated 
to prejudice the prospects of that candidate s electlon ; and ( 4 ) that it was pub 
lished by the candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the con 
Sent of a candidate or his election agent. If the publi nis by a person other 
than the candida e or his election agent, the consent oi lue carluidate or his elec 
tion agent must be established befo . e the charg3 is hekt proved. Proof of express 
consent is not necessary ; Inference of such consent may be raised from the cir 
cumstances . Prior knowledge of the consen s and the knowledge that it is likely 
to be published may raise an inference of consent. If the candidate deliberately 
keeps quiet and does not stop the uplication il it lie within his power . Where 
the oflending matter has already been published and thereafter it comes to the 
knowledge of the candidate at the election and he dues not take stops to repudiate 
it , the consent may not necessarily be inferred unless the candidate or his election 
agent permits or aids in publication . Section 100 of the Act sets out the grounds 
on which the election may be held to le void and one of tho grounds is that 
if the High Court is of opinion that any corrupt practice has been committed 
by a returned candidate or his e ecrion agent or by any other person with the 
consent of a returned candidate or his election agent, the High Court shall declare 
the election of the returner candidate to le void . Mere commission of a corrupt 
practice is not sufficient; it is proof of consent of the candidate or his election 
agent to the commission of the corrupt practice which require the Court to declare 
the election void . In the matter of publication of statements which are false and 
are reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the candidate s election 
proof of consent not infrequently assumed great importance for even if it be 
prove that the publicatior has been made, unless it is shown that it was with the 
consent of the candidata or his election agent, the corrupt practice may not be 
held to be committed so as to invalidate the election . Case oť publication without 
authority or with a view to great evidence by interested persons against the candi 
date who is likely to be successful are not unknown , 


It is not in dispute that the leaflet Ext. P - 257 was published . The leaflet was 
again reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of the appellant s election , 
Parts of the leaflet related to the personal character and conduct of the appellant 
and were defamatory of him and were likely to lower him in the estimation of 
the electorale . 


It is not necessary to decide whether thợ statements of fact made were false . 
for the High Court has held that it is not proved that the respondent cr his elec 
tion agent was concerned with the publication or distribution of the leaflct , and 
we agree with that view . 

The evidence on this part of the case may be considered in three sections : 
evidence relating to the printing of the leaflet , evidence relating to the distribution 
of the leaflet at the meetings held at several places as part of the election com 
paign of the respondent; and evidence relating to the making of oral statement 
reproducing the contents of Ext. P - 357 at those meetings . 

It is common ground that one Dola Jagannatha Rao procured the leaflet printed 
at Sri Ramakrishna Printing Works at Srikakulam . It was averred in the elec 
tion petition that the printing expenses were defrayed by Latchanna the election 
agent of the respondent and that Latchanna had caused distribution of the leaflet 
at several meetings held by the Swatantra Party at Srikakulam on April 24 , 1967; 
at Mandasa on April 21, 1967; at Takkali on April 20 , 1967; and at Palasa on 
April 21 , 1967 . This was denied by the respondent. D . Jagannatha Rao was ex 
Amined as a witness for the respondent. He deposed that he did get the leaflet 
printed on his own account and not at the instance of anybody else , that he 
defrayed the expenses and paid on April 9 . 1967 the printing charges amounting 
to Rs. 85 , that he wrote the draft of the leaflet in his house at Srikakulain ; that 
no one else was present on that occasion , that he did not consult any other person 
nor did he take any other person s silvice 17 that hehall, that before he took 
if to the press he did not show it to any other person , and that as the printers 
could not properly decipher the manuscript they got prepared a fair copy by their 
own employce , 


- - 


= 


= 


8 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II — 
- - - - - - - - - - - - 

- 
The witness admitted that he was a Swatantra party worker and put his signa 
ture on the fair copy of the leaflet . Consent of the candidate or his election agent 
to the printing of the pamphlet cannot be interred from that circumstance, to 
establish the consent of the respondent or his election agent to the printing of the 
leaflet , the appellant examined the Managing proprietor of Sri Ramakrishna Print 
ing Works who deposed that D . Jagannatha Rao placed with him an older for 
printing 10 , 000 copies of the leaflet Ext. P - 357 and that in his books of account 
the nanie of D . Jagannatha Rao was entered as of the person who ordered printing 
of the leaflet . The witness stated that D , Jagannatha Rao had brought the written 
matter on 2 or 3 pages , and that the Manager of the Printing Press got " it fair 
copies" and took his signature on the fair copy which is Ext. P - 358. At the time 
when he took delivery of the printed leaflet, D . Jagannatha Rao paid an amount 
of Rs. 85 / - for printing charges. T he witness stated that one Chelapeti Ran also 
came over to the printing press but only after D . Jagannatha Rao had paid the 
charges, and that Chelapati Rao had nothing to do with that leaflet . In support 
of the evidence the witness produced Exts , P - 346 and P - 348 - 1 copies of the order 
and the voucher evidencing payment by D . Jagannatha Rao . This testimony 
fully supported toe case of D . Jaganatha Rao. There was some discrepancy 
about the date of placing the order . D . Jagannatha Rao said that the order was 
placed on April 7 , 1967, the Managing Proprietor said it was on April 4 , 1987, 
but that was a minor discrepancy which did not affect the testimony of either 
witness . 

This evidence did not support the case of the appellant . He examined D . Rama 
murthy P . W . 26 who stated that the leaflet Ext, P - 357 was drafted in the house of 
Latchanna by K . Chelapati Rao Patnaik to the dictation of Latchanna in the pre 
sence of Dola Jagannatha Rao, that one week thereafter the leaflets were got 
printed by Chelapati Rao Patnaik and Dola Jagannatha Rao , and that Latchanna 
gave them Rs. 300 / - and sent them to Srikakulam . In cross -examination the wit 
ness stated that he would not write Telugu , though he could read a little . He 
also admitted that he was not usually consulted in any matter , but whenever re 
quired the members of the party used only to take work from him . To explain 
his presence at the drafting of the leaflet he stated that Latchanna cailed him on 
April 25 , 1967 at his residence , that when he reached Latchanna s place the leaflet 
was being drafted and that he was detained till the drafting was over and there 
after he was sent away. The witness could not explain the reason why the leaflet 
was not printed at Guntur, Witness D . Ramamurthy sought to support the case 
of the appellant on several other matters . The High Court observed that his state 
ment was " highly artificial" , that there was no reason why he should have been 
called by Latchanna to be u witness to the drafting of the manuscript of the leaflet , 
and that the artificiality of his statement was obvious on the face of it and further 
his testimony did not bear scrutiny at all" . Nothing has been said before us which 
would justify us in taking a different view . 


Chalapathi Rao R . W . 1 was examined on behalf of the respondent. He denied 
that he wrote the draft or took any part in the printing of the leaflet at Latchanna s 
instance . He said that he had seen the leaflet for the first time only after it was 
printed and D . Jagannatha Rao had taken delivery and never thereafter, 


Latchanna denied all knowledge in connection with the printing and dictation 
of the contents of the leaflet Ext. P - 357 . 


Th eovidence clearly does not make out the case of the appellant. It was the 
case of the appellant that Latchanna got the leaflet drafted and printed . From 
the mere fact that D , Jagannatha Rao was a partyman and a member of the State 
Council of the Swatantra Party of which Latchanna was the President, and that 
D . Jagannatha Rao had contested on the Swatantra Party ticket for a seat in the 
Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly in the general elections in 1967, no inference 
arises that the leaflet was published with the consent of the respondent or his 
election agent. 


At the trial the appellant relied also upon the publication of the contents of 
the leaflet in two weekly newspapers - Bahujana and Vahini - in their issues of 
April 17 , 1967, and April 24 , 1967 respectively . In the first newspaper the caption 
shows that it was a questionnaire of Srikakulam public to the Minister : art in the 
second newspaper the caption showed that it was a questionnaire by tho Srrikakulam 
public through D . Jagannatha Rao , President of Nagtakatakam Swatanira Party . 
Latchanna is the printer, publisher and editor of Bahujana. The contents which 
were published in the Bahujana largely tally with Ext. P - 357 . The caption , 
however, is different. Latchanna doposed that he did not send the Icaflet for 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


o 


publication in the newspaper from Srikakulam to Hyderabad. He denied the sup 
gestion that it was not D , Jagannatha Rao but he himself who caused the publica . 
tion of the article in Bahujana . He further stated that though he was the editor 
of the paper he was away from Hyderabad and in his absence his brother s son G . 
Kranti Kumar was editing the paper , and that he came to know oť the publication 
many days after the election was completed . There was no allegation in the peti 
tion that the publication in the Bahujana was caused by Latchanna or by the res 
pondent. The evidence brought before the Court could not cure the defect in the 
pleadings. There is no evidence also that either the respondent or his election 
agent Latchanna had knowledge before the date or the publication or even before 
the date of the election of the respondent, 

It was said that the respondent had expressed his thanks for the work done 
by the Vanini newspaper during the election . This was not a matter relevant 
to the issue under consideration , and the High Court was right in holding that it 
would be extending the scope of the Inquiry contemplated to be made on the alle 
gations made in the petition to huold that by reason of the pblication in the Vahini 
and Bahujana the respondent or his election agent were guilty of any corrupt 
practice . In the petition it was expressly averred that the leaflet Ext. P - 357 was 
published by the respondent and his election agent. It was not pleaded that the 
contents of the leaflet Ext . P - 357 with some modifications were published in the 
Vahint and Bahujana and that by that publication a corrupt practice under 
8 . 123 ( 4 ) was committed by the respondent, 


The appellant also alle - ed that at meetings he d at four places - - Takkali, 
palssa , Mandaşa and Srikakulam - these leaflets were distributed . In support of 
this case Suri Suryanarayana P . W . 25, D . Ramamurthy P . W . 28 , Kirtichandra 
Rao P . W . 28 , C . V . Babu Rao P . W . 29 , M . Narayana Rao P . W . 30 and Sana Veera 
bhadra Rao P . W . 31 were examined . In rebutial, K . Chalapati Rao Patnaik R . W . 
1 , Suveri Sanyesi Appa Rao R . W . 2 , Bandi Appalla Suri R . W . 3 , D . Kondaih Chou 
dari R . W . 8 , Carimella Kameswara Rao P . W . 11, S . Narayana Swamy R . W . 15 , 
Narayan Dandokar R . W . 20 , S . Chandraih Naidu R . W , 21, N . Veerachari R . W . 22, 
Bendalam Rama Murthi R . W . 24 , Allu Suryanarayana R . W . 29 and Raj Vallath 
Misra R . W . 30 , besides the respondent and his election agent, were examined to 
disprove the case of the appellant. The case of the respondent was that he was 
not present at any of the meetings except at Srikakulam which he attended at its 
concluding stage, Latchanna also denied that he was present at any of those 
meetings , 


The High Court made a painstaking analysis of the evidence of the witnesses 
relating to the holding of the meetings and the distribution of the leaflet Ext , P - 357 
and the witnesses examined on behalf of the respondent, which ran into as many 
as 23 printed pages, and in conclusion observed : 
" From the above discussion it is clear that it was Dola Jagannadha Rao 

himself who got printed Ext . P - 357 of his own accord and neither the 
respondent nor his election agent was in any way concerned with it. 
The respondent and the election agent were in no way connected with 
Its publication , when several thousands of copies of the pamphlet had 

een printec They must of course be for purposes of distribution . 
Dola Jagannadha Rao could have personally distributed them or 
caused their distribution through others. But there is no positive 
evidence that these pamphlets were distributed amongst the public 
either by Dola Jagannadha Rao himself or by the election agent, as 
alleged , or to the knowledge of either the respondent or his election 
agent." 


We see no reason to disagree with the view of the High Court on the evidence . 


The question which remains to be considered is whether a corrupt practice 
falling within pub - s . ( 6 ) of s . 123 was committed by the respondent. Incurring 
or authorizing expenditure in contravention of s . 77 is a corrupt practice. Section 
77 requires that cvery candidate at the election shall either by himself or by his 
election agent keep a separate and corrupt account of all expenditure in connec 
tion with the election incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent bet 
ween the date of publicrtion of the notification calling the election and the date 
of declaration of the result thereof, both dates inclusive By sub - s . ( 3 ) of s . 77 the 
total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed . 
For the parliamentary election an amount of Rs. 25 000 / - was prescribed as the 
maximum amount to be spent. The respondent submitted a return disclosing 
expenditure of Rs. 15 ,834 - 92 . 


10 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART 11 


It was averred in the election petition that the total expenditure of Rs. 15 , 834 - 92 
returned by the respondent as election expenditure under r . 86 was a " gross under 
estimate of the expenses incurred by the respondent in connection with the election " , 
that the respondent had not included in the account various Items of expensiiture 
incurred and also " given grossly diminished figures in respect of iteins included 
therein " , that " it was obvious that his accounts did not reflect the expenditure 
actually incurred , but it only represented a fictitious figure manipulated with a 
view to conform to r . 90 " . It was further averred that a large amount aggregating 
to Rs. 3 lakhs and more was spent for the purpose of the election . After setting 
out certain argumentative matters, it was stated in the petition that the expendi 
ture in respect of the following items had been suppressed or diminished or 
reduced in the account rendered by the respondent" : 
( 1 ) the amount of Rs. 1, 193 / - paid to Vijaya Auto Service unier voucher 

dated April 30 , 1967 for the purchase of diesel of, motor- spirit and 

lubricants was not included ; 
( 2 ) though in fact the respondent incurred and paid an amount of 

Rs. 10, 000 / - for the purchase of motor- spirit from the Esso Standard 
Bunk Srikakulam , only an expenditure of about Rs. 200 / - was shown 

in the account of election expenses ; 
( 3 ) that an amount of Rs. 6 ,000 / - was spent for the purchase of motor 

spirit from Esso Standard Bunk , Sompct , but only Rs 607 -94 were 

shown in the account ; 
( 4 ) that various amounts aggregating to Rs . 10 ,000 / - were paid at dillerent 

bunks for motor spirit and diesel oll but those amounts had been 
deliberately suppressed from the account. Thereafter five names of 
the proprietors of those petrol bunks were mentioned , 


The petition then proceeded to say that the total expenditure Incurred on motor 
spirit was far in excess of Rs. 1 , 000 / - odd shown in the account rendered , and that 
the motor spirit purchased during the period from the motor spirit bunks at Srika 
kulam , Sompet , Itchapuram , a Amadalavalsa and Takkall and other places was 
" ridiculously low " , that a number of lorries from outside or within the District were 
engaged by the respondent during the last week of the election for propaganda 
purposes , as also on the polling day for conveying voters to the polling stations, 
and the expenditure on diesel oil , drivers and cleaners in respect of those vehicles 
had not been included in the account. The petition then referred to the expendi 
ture on " wall posters " , on printing , distributing and exhibiting them was far below 
the account incurred , and only an amount of Rs. 2 ,081 / - was shown as expenditure 
incurred by the respondent in his account of election expenses on that account. 
It was then stated that the expenditure incurred by the respondent in respect of 
" cycle rickshaws and jutkes" was not shown, that wages and maintenance of about 
1 , 000 workers for about three weeks and about 1, 500 polling agents on the day of 
poll " was not accounted for " , that no expenditure incurred towards boarding and 
lodging of the workers at the election " was accounted for" ; that the amount of 
Rs. 4 , 000 / - paid by the election agent of the respondent Venkayya to Sri Venkates 
wara Lodging and Boarding Sri kakulam was suppressed in the account of elec 
tion expenses ; and finally an amount of Rs. 500 / - incurred for the purchase of 
voters lists for the seven assembly constituencies was also not included . 

The case of the appellant was sought to be proved by examining a large num 
ber of distributors at " petrol bunks" from whom motor - spirit was purchased on 
cash in respect of various vehicles. It was sought to be proved that a large num 
ber of vehicles were used for his election campaign by the respondent and the 
expenditure incurred according to the appelant exceeded Rs. 23, 000 / - for motor 
spirit alone . A copy of a bank account maintained in the name of Latchanna with 
the Andhra Bank Ltd ., Srikakulam , was tendered in evidence to support the case 
of the appellant that large amounts were withdrawn from time to tine during the 
election days and it was suggested that all the money withdrawn was utilised by 
Latchanna for the election campaign of the respondent. It was the respondent s 
case that Latchanna did not have custody of the funds intended to be used for the 
election campaign , that he, the respondent, had kept his money for the election 
campaign with one Kavuri Venkaiah and that the latter spent the amount for 
election purposes. The respondent said that the amount spent by him was partly 
his own and partly received from donations. He denied that any election fund 
was opened by him , nor was such fund opened by Latchanna . He further stated 
that apart from Rs. 3 , 500 / - provided by him in cash and Rs. 5 , 000 / - being the 
proceeds of a cheque recelyed by him ag donation , a sum of Rs. 6 ,000 / - was handed 
over to Kavuri Venkaiah and that some postal money orders addressed to him 
were received by Venkalah in his absence . Those amounts were sent by his, 


Sec . 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


18 


friends who were interested in him . The tutal amount that was received by way 
of donations or contributions from others was Rs. 18 , 000 / - or Rs. 19 , 000 / - The 
entire aniount was not spent for the election , and Venkaiah who had opened a 
bank account and kept the amounts in that account, returned the balance to him , 
According to the respondent the expenses of the election were met out of the 
amounts maintained in K , Venkaiah s name and not from the monies that belong 
ed to Latchanna or the Swatantra Party or any other person . The case of the 
respondent was supported by Venkaah . Latchanna also supported that care. 
Latchanna, was the President of the State Swatantra Party , He stated that in 
the general election , the Swatantia Party had spent large amounts of money and 
had mcurred debts, and in order to pay of those debts the party had asked for 
donations from members of the State Party and also the Central Party , that an 
appeal was also made to the press to invite donations and also a request was 
made to the Central Party to make some grants , that in March and April 1967 
some amounts were received in respect of which he maintained an account with 
the State Bank , Srikakulam , and a joint account in the State Bank at Sompeta 
in the names of his wife and himself, thal certain amounts were received in his 
name by cheques and drafts and they were put in the joint current account at 
Srikakulam , but not one ple out of this account was used for the bye - election , 
and out of the amount that was left as balance after discharging debts he paid 
Rs. 16 ,000 / - for the purchase of a jeep for the Central Party . 

A mere general allegation that more than Rs. 3 lakhs were spent by the 
respondent or his election agent or other persons for the purposes of the election 
is not sufficient to make out a case under s . 123 (6 ) of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951. It is not sufficient merely to allege that large sums of money 
were spent for the purpose of the election . 

It is the case of the respondent that his friends and sympathisers sent him 
certain sums of money , and that whatever monies were received by him or in 
the name of his wife or by Vonkaiah under his authority remained with Venkaiah . 
These receipts aggregated to Rs. 19 , 000 out of which Rs. 15 834 - 92 were spent 
for the election . Expenditure , if any, incurred by the party which sponsored the 
candidature of a candidate cannot be taken into account for the purpose of deter 
mining whether the corrupt practice within the meaning of s . 123 ( 7 ) was com 
mitted by the candidate . In Pananjava Singh v . Baijnath Singh and others ( 1 ) 
this Court held that expenditure incurred by persons other than candidate for 
election purposes will not be taken into account ( unless it is incurred by such 
third person as the candidate s agent) in determining whether a corrupt practice 
was committed by the candidate : see also Rain Dayal v . Brijraj Singh ( 2 ) and 
Meghraj Patodin v . R . K . Birla ( ? ) . It is true that Latchanna had from time to 
time withdrawn from the Andhra Bank various amounts of money . Those amounts , 
he says, were utilised for satisfying the debts of the party incurred in the gene 
ral elections. There is no evidence to the contrary led by the appellant. Nor is 
there any cvidence to show that the respondent had received any amount in 
excess of Rz. 19, 000 / - out of which he claimed he had spent Rs. 15, 834 -92 . 

A considerable body of evidence was tendered by the appellant to prove that 
a large number of vehicles were used for the election campaign of the respon 
dent, Many witnesses were examined to support that case . The High Court 
made a detailed analysis of the evidence and held that only four vehicles Nos. 
APK - 9486 jeep . ( 2 ) APU - 7414 Ambassador car ( 3 ) APY - 7719 Ambassador car and 
( 4 ) APG -4320 Fiat car , were retained and used for " election purposes and 
expenses for purchase of motor - spirit and oil for those vehicles during the elec 
tion days were shown in the account. Besides this , in the view of the High Court, 
two more vehicles Nos . APG - 2123 and APP - 97 were used for some time for the 
purpose of the election . These two vehicles were taken by Balaram and Chitti 
Babu once to Kanchili petrol bunk , and to that extent they may be held to have 
been used for the errand of the respondent. Taking into account this amount, 
the total amount in relation to the motor-spirit use for Kanchilt was Rs. 1, 141 -13 
The High Court held that on the evidence , the cash bills which were produced 
by the appellant in respect of the motor - spirit expenses were not connected 
with the motor vehicles of the respondent or of his agent or of any vehicles 
maintained by the respondent for election purposes . The High Court found the 
books of account of Vijaya Auto Service and the " Petrol Bunk " of Malla Satya 
narayana and Brothers at Kanchill unreliable , and held that only those bill - books 
may be taken into consideration which recorded transactions signed by persons 
admitted to be the agents of the respondent. The High Court accordingly held 
that in addition to the amount admitted by the respondent an amount of Rs. 1, 521 - 21 
WAS proved . No substantial argument was advanced before us challenging the 
findings recorded by the learned Trial Judge on the question as to the expendi 
ture incurred for the motor vehicles employed in the course of the election of the 


12 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


respondent, and we see no reason to disagree with the conclusion recorded by the 
High ourt on a very elaborate painstaking analysis of the evidence . 

It was urged that as many as 1100 persons were employed by the respondent 
during the election days in the campaign for the respondent, and besides their 
remuneration expenses for their boarding and lodging were incurred by the 
respondent, and that amount was not disclosed in the account filed under s . 77 ( 3 ) . 
It was the case of the respondent that several persons had worked for the Swa 
tantra Party candidate at the election . According to the rules of the Swa 
tantra Party they worked voluntarily , and no remuneration was paid to any of 
the workers , because payment of remuneration to any party worker was against 
the principles of that party . The High Court held that transport charges and 
expenses for meals for the workers were not incurred by the respondent, but by 
the Swatantra Party . In argument it was conceded there was nothing to show 
that any expenditure was incurred by the respondent for those workers, Venkaiah 
had , It is said , paid under the directions of Latchanna certain amounts of money 
for the expenses incurred for the workers of the Swatantra Party . But in the 
absence of any evidence to show that any specific sums of money were expended 
on certain items by the respondent or his election agent, no conjecture can be 
permitted to defeat a candidate who has been elected . 

Towards the boarding and lodging expenses of the workers , it appears , Simma 
Jagannadham , President of the District Swatantra Party , had paid Rs. 5 , 000 / - and 
Rs. 1 ,200 / - after the election . It was proved by the evidence that the party office 
was in the house of Simma Jagannadham . The workers were lodged and board 
ed at a place called Sri Venkateswara Lodging and Boarding Lodge at Srikaku 
lam and the expenditure incurred for them was met by Sri Venkateswaram 
Lodge . The amounts which were paid by Simma Jagannadham were not shown 
to be paid towards the expenses of lodging and boarding of the workers at Sri 
Venkateswara Lodge , The Manager of Sri Venkateswara Lodge apparently 
boarded and lodged those workers free of charge . In the absence of any reliable 
evidence to the contrary, the finding of the High Court that no expenditure was 
incurred in respect of those workers by the respondent must be accepted . 

The appcllant s case that expenditure was incurred for “ Wall Posters and 
for printings, distributing and exhibiting them amounting to Rs. 2 , 081 / - was not 
pressed , nor was the case about the expenditure incurred in respect of " cycle 
rickshaws and jutkas " pressed before us. Even if it be granted that an amount 
of Rs. 500 / - which was incurred for purchasing voters lists be taken into account 
the total amount proved to have been expended by the respondent does not 
exceed Rs. 25 , 000 / - prescribed under the Act. 

We have carefully considered the evidence in the light of the arguments 
advanced at the Bar , and we are of the view that no case is made out for our 
Inteference with the conclusion recorded by the High Court, 
The appeal fails and is dismissed with costs . 

sd / - J. C . SHAH , J. 
New Delhi, 
October 16 , 1970 . 

Sd / - A . N . GROVER, J. 
[No . 82 / AP / 20 /67.) 

By Order, 
ROSHAN LAL , Secy . 


ORDERS 
New Delhi, the 25th November 1970 


S . O . 2 . - Whereas Election Commission is satified that Shri Laxman 
Prasad Gupta , S / O Shri Badri Prasad , General Ganj, Laxmi Cottage , Mathura , 
District Mathura , Uttar Pradesh , a contesting candidate or Mid - term general elec 
tion , 1969 to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 366 -Mathura Assembly 
Constituency , has fallcd to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner 
as required by the Representation of the People Act , 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


13 


2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfed 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ;. 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Laxman Prasad Gupta , to be disqualifed 
for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 

[ No . UP-LA/ 366 / 69 (159 ) . ] 


भारत निर्वाचन प्रयोग 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली , 25 नवम्बर , 1970 


एस . प्रो० 2. - यतःनिर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि उत्तर प्रदेश विधान 
सभा के लिए मभावधि साधारणनिर्वाचन 1969 के लिए 366 - मथुरा सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से चुनाव 
लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री लक्ष्मन प्रसाद गुप्ता सुपुत्र श्री दी प्रसाद जनरल गंज , लक्ष्मी काटेज, मथुरा 
लोक प्रा ।धित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों द्वारा अपेक्षित रीति म 
मैं अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे है । 


2. और यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नही दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का यह समाधान हो गय 
है कि उनके पास इस प्रसफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नही है ; 

3. अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - 2 के मानसरण मे निर्वाचन आयोग एतद 
द्वा " उक्त श्री लक्ष्मन प्रसाद गुप्ता को संसद के दोनों सदनो में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य 
की विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , इस आदेश की तारीख 
तोन वर्ष को कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० उ० प्र०- वि० स० / 366/ 69 ( 159 ) ] 


S. 0 . 3. - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mool Chand , 
S / O Shri Pyare Lal, R / O village and Post Office Barsana , District Mathura , Uttar 
Pradesh , a contesting candidate for Mid - term General Elections 1969 to the Uttar 
Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 367 Chhata Assembly Constituency, has fai ed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Representation 
of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder; 

2 . And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has nct given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure : 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Mool Chand , to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
the date of this order . 

[ No . UP- LA / 367 / 69 (180) .] 


एस० प्रो० 3. - - यत :निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि उत्तर प्रदेश विधान 
सभा के लिए मध्यावधि साधारण निर्वाचन 1969 के लिए 367 - छाता सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से 
चुनाव लडने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री मल चन्द सुपूत्र श्री प्यारे लाल, निवासी ग्राम और पौ० बरसाना , 
जिला मथ्ा, त्त प्रदेश लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 1951 तथा सद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों 
द्वारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


14 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II — 


2. ओर :, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण पयवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन प्रायोग का यह समाधान हो 
गया है कि उसकेपापअसफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित नहीं है ; 


3. अनः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम , की धारा 10 - क के अनसरण में निर्वचन आयोग एतद् 
बारा उक्त श्रोन बन्द को संसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधान 
सभा अपना विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष 
की कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[सं० उ० प्र०--वि० स०/ 367/ 69 ( 160) ] 


S . O . 4 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Kanhi, 
S / O Shri Sukh Ram, Nagla Mewa, Sahpau , Tahsil Sadabad, District Mathura, 
Uttar Pradesh , a contesting candidate for Mid - term General Elections 1969 to the 
Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 370 -Sadabad Assembly Congtituency , 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as required by the Repre 
sentation of the People Act , 1951 , and the Rules made thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 

3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Kanhi , to be disqualified for being 
chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legis 
lative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from 
. the date of this order. 

[ No. UP-LA/ 370 / 69 (161 ).] 
एस ग्रो ) 4. - पतःनिर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि उत्तर प्रदेश विधान 
सभा के लिएमाताधारण निर्वाचन 1969 के लिए 370 - सादाबाद सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से 

लडने वाले उपोदवार श्री कनही सपत्र श्री सुखराम निवासी नंगला मेवा , तहसील सादाबाद 
जिला म गया, उत्त देग, लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम, 1951 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों 
द्वारा अमेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल करने में असफल रहे हैं ; 


2. और यत:, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण गथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन आयोग का या समाधान हो गया 
है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त करण या न्यायोचित्य नहीं है ; 

____ 3. प्राः, पान , उस्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 -क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग एतद् 
द्वारा उस्त श्री काडी को मं पद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या निमी ज्य को विधान 
मभा अपना विधान परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए, इस आदेश की तारीख से तीन वर्ष 
की कालापधि के लिए निहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० उ०प्र० -वि०स० / 370/ 69( 161) ] 


New Delhi, the 30th November 1970 
S . O . 5 . --Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Tulsi, S / O 
Shri Cholai, R / O village Aurahia , Post Office Maniram , District Goraklıpur, Uttar 
Pradesh, a contesting candidate for mid -term general election, 1969 to the Uttar 
Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 191-Maniram Assembly Constituency , has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses within the time and in the manner as 
Tequired by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder ; 

2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notices has failed to Ale an 
Affidavit in support of his statement that he lost his election papers and also to 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 

- - -- - - - - - 


[ ६ 


give any reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Commission is 
satisfied that he has no good reason or justification for such failures ; 


3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Tulsi, to be disqualified for being chosen 
as and for being a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this order . 

[ No. UP - LA / 191/ 69 (162). ] 


नई दिल्ली , 30 नवम्बर 1970 


ए । मो० 5. - -- याः निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि - तर प्रदेश वि न 
समा के नए पयावधि साधारण निर्वाचन 1969 के लिए 191 -- मनीराम सभा निर्वाचन क्षेत्र से 
TT नाले उम्मीदवार श्री तुलसी सुपुत्र श्री चोलाई, निवासी गांव अवरहिया , डाकपा मार्न राम 
जिलागोनपुर, उत्तर प्रदेश लोक प्रतिनिधित्व अधिनियम , 195 1 तथा तद्धीन बनाए गए नियमों 
द्वारा जो समय के अन्दर तथा रीति से अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का लेखा दाखिल करने में 
असफल रहे हैं ; 


2 रन: उक्त उम्मीदवार, उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी अपने इस कथन के 
समर्थन में उसके निर्वाचन संबंधी कागज खो गए हैं कोई शपथ पत्र दाखिल क ने तथा अपनी इस 
अनार कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण देने में असफल रहे हैं औरनिर्वाचन आयोग का 
यहसब हो गए है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य 


3. मः , अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अनुसरण में निर्वाचन आयोग पद्न 
द्वारा उमा पो नसो को पंसद के दोनों सदनों में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी राज्य की विधा ... 
सभा प्रयवधान परिषद् के सदस्य चुने जाने और होने के लिए , इस आदेश की तारीख से ती 
वर्ष की कावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ # ० उ० प्र० -वि०स०/ 191 /69( 1 62 ) 1 
New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 


S . O . 6 . - Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Baijnath 
Prasad Kushwaha, S / O Shri Madho Prasad, R / 091 , Naya Pura Kareli, Post Office 
Ahmedganj, District Allahabad , Uttar Pradesh , a contesting candidate for the mid 
term general election 1909 to the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly from 282 
Allahabad West Assembly Constituency , has failed to lodge an account of his 
election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder ; 


2 . And whereas, the said candidate even after due notices has not given any 
reason or explanation for the failure and the Election Cominission is satisfied 
that he has no good reason or justification for such failure ; 


3 . Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Baijnath Prasad Kushwaha , to be dis 
qualified for being chosen as and for being a member of either House of Parlia 
ment or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period 
of three years from the date of this order . 


[ No. UP- LA / 282 / 69 ( 164 ) .] 


By Order , 
A . N . SEN , Secy . 


16 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


- 


नई दिल्ली , 7 दिसम्बर , 1970 
एम० प्रो० 6 - यत : निर्वाचन आयोग का समाधान हो गया है कि उत्तर प्रदेश विधान 
सभ के लिए मध्यावधि साधारणनिर्वाचन 1969 के लिए 282 - इलाहाबाद ofर्म सभ विपन 
क्षत्री सुनाव लड़ने वाले उम्मीदवार श्री बैजनाय प्रसाट कशवाहा सूपन्न श्र माधो प्रसाद 91 नया 
पुर रेली, डा० अहमद गंज जिला इलाहाबाद , उत्तर प्रदेश लोक प्रतिनिधित्र अधिनियम , 1951 
तया द्धीन बनाए गए नियमों दवारा अपेक्षित अपने निर्वाचन व्ययों का कोई भी लेखा दाखिल 
करने में असफल रहे हैं । 

2. पौर यतः, उक्त उम्मीदवार ने , उसे सम्यक सूचना दिए जाने पर भी अपनी इस असफलता 
के लिए कोई कारण अथवा स्पष्टीकरण नहीं दिया है ; तथा निर्वाचन प्रायोग का यह समाधान हो 
गया है कि उसके पास इस असफलता के लिए कोई पर्याप्त कारण या न्यायोचित्य नही है ; 


3. अतः, अब , उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 10 - क के अन सण मे निवधन प्राय ग एतद् 
द्वारा उक्न श्री बैजनाथ प्रसाद कुशवाहा को संसद के दोनों सदनो में से किसी भी सदन के या किसी 
राज को विधान सभा अथवा विधान परिषद् के सदस्य चने जाने और होने के लिए, इस आदेश की 
तारो तीन वर्ष को कालावधि के लिए निरहित घोषित करता है । 

[ सं० उ०प्र० -वि०स० / 282/ 69 ( 164) 1 

आदेश से , 
____ ए० एन० सेन , रचिव 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- . - . . . - - - - - - - - - - -- 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 18th November 1970 
S . O . 7 , - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con 
gular Officers ( Oaths and Fees) Act, 1948 , the Central Government hereby autho 
rises Shri D . R. Bansal , Assistant in the Embassy of India , Mogadisclo to perform 
the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect, until further orders . 

[ No . T . 4330 / 2 / 70. ] 


विदेश मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 18 नवम्बर, 1970 
एस० प्रो० 7:-- - राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम , 
1948 के खण्ड ? धारा ( क ) के पापालन में , केन्द्र सरकार इसके द्वारा भारतीय राजदूतावस , 
भोगादिशु में सहायक श्री डी० आर० बंसल को इसी समय से अगला प्रादेश होने तक कोसली अधिकर्ता 
का कार्य करने का अधिकार देती है । 

[ सं० टी० 4330( 2 )/ 70 ] 


New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 
S . O . 8. - - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con 
Sular Officers ( Oaths and Fees ) Act, 1948, the Central Government hereby utho 
rises Shri M . K . Malik , Assistant in the Consulate of India, Khorramshahr to 
perform the duties of a Consular Agent, with effect from the 7th December 1970, 
until further orders . 

[ No. f . 4330 ( 2 ) / 70. ] 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 


17 


नई दिल्ली, 21 दिसम्बर, 1970 
एस० ओ० 8. -- राजनयिक एव कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं फीस ) अधिनियम , 
1948 की धारा 2 के खण्ड ( क ) के अनसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार, खर्रमशहर में भारतीय कोंसला 
वास मे सहायक , श्री एम० के० मलिक को इसके द्वारा , 7 दिसम्बर , 1970 से आगामी आदेश 
होने तक , कोसली अभिकर्ता का कार्य करने के लिए अधिकृत करती है । 

[ स . टी० 4430/ 2/ 101 


8 . 0 . 9. --In pursuance of clause ( a ) of section 2 of the Diplomatic and Con 
sular Oncers (Oaths and Fees ) Act , 1948 , the Central Government hereby autho 
rises Shri B. B . Ral , Assistant in the Vice- Consulate of India , Geneva, to perform 
the duties of a Consular Agent, with immediate effect until further orders. 


[ No. T . 4330 ( 2 ) / 70. 3 

P. C . BHATTACHARJEE , Under Secy. 
एस० प्रो० 9. - - राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम , 
1948 को धारा 2 के खण्ड ( क ) के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार , जनेवा भारतीय उपकोंसलावास 
में सहायक श्री बी०बी० राय को , इसके द्वारा इसी समय से , अागामी आदेश होने तक , कोसली अभिकर्ता 
का कार्य करने के लिए प्राधिकृत करती है । 

[स० टी० 433 0( 2)/ 701 


नई दिल्ली , 18 नवम्बर, 1970 
एस० मो0 3902 - राजनयिक एवं कोसली अधिकारी ( शपथ एवं शुल्क ) अधिनियम, 1958 
के खण्ड 2 धारा ( क ) के अनुपालन में , केन्द्र सरकार, इसके द्वारा भारतीय राजदूतावास , कुवैत , भे 
सहायक श्री ए० एन० सचर को इसी समय से अंगला आदेश होने तक कोसली अभिकर्ता का कार्य 
करने का अधिकार देती है । 

[सं० टी० 4330/2/ 701 
पी० सी० भट्टाचार्जी, 

अवर सचिव । 


- 


- 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 

( Department of Personnel ) 
New Delhi, the 19th December 1970 


8 . 0 . 10 . - In exercise of the powers conterred by Section 3 of the Delhi 
Special Police Establishment Act, 1948 ( 25 of 1946 ) , the Central Government 
hereby specifes the following offences as the offences which are to be investigated 
by the Delhi Special Police Establishment , namely:-- - 
( a) offences punishable under sections 114 and 458 of the Indian Penal Code 

( 45 of 1960 ) ; 
( b ) attempts , abestments and conspiracles in relation to or in connection 

with one or more of the offences mentioned in clause ( a ) and any 
other offence committed in the course of the same transaction arising 
out of the same facts . 

[ No . 228/ 9 / 70 - AVD II. ] 


18 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II -. 


- - 


-- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


मंत्रीमाल सचिवालय 

( कमिक विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 19 विसम्बर , 1970 
का०प० 10 - - दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन अधिनियम 1946 ( 1946 का 25 ) 
की धारा 3 वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित अपराधों 
की उन अपराधों के रुप में विनिर्दिष्ट करती है जिनका अन्वषण दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन 
द्वारा किया जाना है , अर्थात :--- 

( क ) भारतीय दण्ड संहिता ( 1860 का 45) की धारा 114 और 456 के अधीन 

दण्डनीय अपराध 
( ख ) खण्ड ( क ) म वणित एक या अधिक अपराधों तथा एक ही तथ्यों से उमृत 

एक ही संव्यवहार के अनुक्रम में किए गए किसी अन्य अपराध के बारे में 
या के सम्बन्ध में प्रयत्न दुष्प्ररण प्रौर षड़यन्त्र । 

[संख्या 228/(9)/ 70 - ए०वी०डी०- ॥] 


ORDER 
iveco Delhi, the 19th December 1970 


8 . 0 . 11 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 , 
read with section 6 , of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act , 1946 ( 26 of 
1946) , and ot all other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Central Government 
with the consent of the Government of the State of Assam , hereby extends the 
powers and jurisdiction of the members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment 
to the State of Assam for the investigation of offenceg punishable under sections 
114 and 456 of the Indian Penal Code ( 45 of 1860 ) , regarding the circumstances 
of the alleged tresspass into the office of the Survey of India at Shillong on the 
21st November, 1970 . 


[ No. 228 / 9 / 70 - AVD. II .] 
P. B . RAJAGOPALAN, Dy . Secy . 


प्रादेश 


नई, दिली 19 दिसम्बर , 1970 


का०मा० 11.--- दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन अधिनियम , 1946 ( 1946 का 25 ) 
की धारा के साथ पठित धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त पौर इस निमित्त उसे समर्थ बनाने 
वाली प्रम्य सभी शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा भासाम राज्य की सरकार 
की सहमति से , दिल्ली विशेष पुलिस स्थापन के सवस्यों की शक्तियों और अधिकारिता का , भारतीय 
दण्ड संहिता ( 1860 का 45 ) की धारामों 114 और 456 के अधीन दण्डनीय अपराधों , जिनका 
सम्बन्ध भारतीय सर्वेक्षण के शिलांग स्थित कार्यालय में 21 नवम्बर , 1970 को हुई अनाधिकार--- 
प्रवश की घटना से है , का अन्वेषण करने के लिए , प्रासाम राज्य में विस्तार करती है । 

[ संख्या 228( 9)/ 70 ---ए०वी०डी० - - ॥] 

पि० ब० राजगोपालन , 

प्रवर सचिव । 


c. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


19 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 
8 . 0 . 12 . - In exercise of the powers conforred by section 3 of the Commis 
sions of Inquiry Act , 1952 ( 60 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby extends 
upto the 30th June , 1971 , the period within which the Commission of Inquiry 
appointed by the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs by 
notification No. S . O . 2375 , dated the 11th July , 1970 shall make its report to the 
Central Government. 

[ No. 25 / 14 / 70- Poll . II. ] 
R. VASUDEEVAN, Dy. Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 21 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का०मा० 12 - - जांच भायोग अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 60 ) की धारा 3 द्वारा 
प्रपत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्द्वारा यह अवधि जिसमें भारत सरकार 
बारा गृह मंत्रालय में अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2375 दिनांक 11 जुलाई, 1970 द्वारा नियुक्त 
जांच आयोग सरकार को अपना प्रतिवेदन वेगा , 30 जन , 1971 तक मढ़ा दी है । 

[ संख्या 25/14/ 70- - पोल - ॥] 
पार० वासुदेवन उप सचिव । 


- 


- - 


MINESTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Banking ) 

New Detha , the 19th December 1970 
8 . 0 . 18 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) 
of Section 7 of the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings ) 
Act, 1970 ( 5 of 1970) the Central Government in consultation with the Reserve 
Bank of India , hereby appoints Shri V , M , Bhide, Additional Secretary, Depart 
ment of Banking , Ministry of Finance , New Delhi as a member of the First Board 
of Directors of the Central Bank of India in place of Shri $ . S . Shiralkar with 
immediate effect. 

[ No. F . 2 ( 7 ) PSB- NB/ 70. ] 

D . N . GHOSH , Director 
वित्त मंत्रालय 


( बैंकिंग विभाग ) 

नयी दिल्ली , 19 विस्वमर, 1970 
एस० मो० 13. - - अकिम समवाय ( उपकर्मों का अभिग्रहण और अन्तरण ) अधिनियम , 
1970 ( 1970 का 5वा ) की धारा 7 की उप -धारा 3 के खण्ड ( क ) के द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार भारतीय रिजर्व बैंक की सलाह से एतद्वारा वित्त मंत्रालय 
नयी दिल्ली के बैंकिंग विभाग के प्रपर- सचिव श्री बी०एस० भिडे को प्राज से श्री एस०एस० 
शिरालकर के स्थान पर सेंट्रल बैंक माफ इण्डिया के निदेशकों के प्रथम बोर्ड का सदस्य नियुक्त 
करती है । 

[ संख्या एफ02( 7 ) पी०एस०बी०- एन०बी० /70] 

डी० एन० घोष , मिदेशक 


20 


(Department of Banking ) 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 
S . O . 14 - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India , as on the Iith December, 1970 

BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


LIABILITIES 


Rs . 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Capital Paid Up 


18 ,41, 42 ,000 


3, 48, 000 


. 


4 , 18 ,000 


Reserve Fud 

. . . . . 
National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations ) 


Fuod 


, 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 Notes . . . 

Rupee Coin . . . 
159,00,00 ,000 Small Coin 

Bills Purchased and Discounted : 
172 , 00 ,00 ,000 

(a ) Internal 
(b) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
37,00,00 , 000 Balances Held Abroad 
95,00 , 00,000 Investments ** . . . 

Loans and Advences to : 

O Central Goverment , 

( it) State Governments @ . 
Loons and Advances to : 

Scheduled Commercial Bankst 
(8 ) State Co- operative Banksti 

( 10 ) Others 
153, 11 ,99 ,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PART11 


National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fuad 
National Industrial Credit (Loag Term Operations) Fund 


23 , 42 83 , 000 
JO158 ,00 ,000 
93 ,64 ,08 ,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


157 , 90209, 000 


Deposits i 


208 27 ,90 ,000 
286 ,62, 84 ,000 

4 ,09 ,95,000 


Q ) Goperimenti 

Central Government 


, 


, 


, 


Lot , Admat loserpents thom Nitovaciunt 

Credit (Long Tert pentuna Fuad 


State Geromment 


, 


7 .71 ,26050 


(@ ) Louds and AJPROCE 10 : 

O State Governmeou 
(1 ) Sute Co - opende books 
(4 ) CamalLand Morage Banks 


34:33 19,000 
21, 59,08 , 000 


. 


. 


. 


(6 ) Books 


9 ,57 03 000 


(b ) loreatment in CentniLeod Mortgage Bank 
Debeatures 

. 
Lammud Adroces from Netko 1 Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund 
Lonas sod Adreces to State Co -opecutive Bunks , 


5 , 33.93, 000 


6 ) Scheduled Commeil Beak . 
6 Scheduled State Co-operative Banka 
( * ) Noo - Scheduled State Co- operadre Banks 
ft) Other Beales . . . . . 


184 ,77 ,27, 000 
8 44 ,64, 000 

70 ,66 ,000 
29, 83,000 


Louns, Advances end Loremeos frumo Nacioni In ustrial 

Credit (Long I er o Open ) Food - 


Sec,3(*)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


(c) Other 


90 , 09 , 99,000 


27,65,71,000 


Blis pagable 
Other Liabilities 


$ 1, 14 ,26 , 200 

351,64000 
1027 ,81, 544000 


( a ) Lonns apd Advances to the Development Bank 
(6 ) LoveneDL 10 boabydebanture : is rued by the 

Development Bank 
Otha Agets 

Rupees 


35x2684 .000 
1027 ,81, 54. 000 


Rupees 


* Lactades Corb , Fixed Deposito Lod Short- hotm Securities 
* Excluding Investment from the Natisos ) Adeleoleonl Coodit (Long Tera Operations ) Fund and the National Lodustrial Credit Loox Termo 

Options ) Puna . 
Bidading Loans and Aduces from the Nidow Agricutan Credit ( Look Tem Op Voos) Puod , but including temporary over -draft to 

State Governments. 
I actudes Rs. 71,24,25,000 advanced to scheduled conectaa, banks against 1890cc bills under Seotion 17 ( 4XC ) at the Reserve Bank of India Aui. 
ft Excluding Loua , od A 1840 esf on the Nalooul Agricaltural Credit ( Long Porn Joeralwas ) Flips and toe Naonal Agricukural Credil (Stabiu . 

sattoo ) Pand. 
Dated the 16th day of December 1970 


21 


22 


Ad Account pugent to the Resern Bank of Lodi Att , 1934. for the week anded the IIth day of December , 1970. 

Issue DRARTHENT 


LIABILITIES 


Rese 


Rs . 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Notes held in the Banking Department 


1841, 42 ,000 


182, 53, 11,000 


. 


. 


. 


4068305 , 33 ,000 


Notes in circulation 
Total Notes issued 


. 


4086 , 46 ,75,000 


356 , 42, 00 , 000 


Gold Coin und Bullion - 
(8 ) Held in India 

(6 ) Held outside Indis 
Foreign Securities 
TOTAL 
Rupee Coin 
Government of India Rupee Securities 
Internal Billa of Exchange md ather 

commercial peper 


$ 38 ,95, 11,000 

55,19, 27 , 000 
3492 ,32,37,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


196 . 16 . 750 


TOTAL ANSTS 


. 


4086,4675 , 000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PART1 


Dated the 16th day of December , 1970 , 


(Sd . ) S . JAGANYATHAN , 

Goremor 

[No. F . 3 (3 )- BC170 .) 
K , YESURATNAM , Voder Secy. 


रुपये 


रुपये 


18,41, 42, 000 

3, 48, 000 
4,18, 000 


( बडिय विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 21 दिसम्बर, 1970 
एस . मो . 14. - 11 दिसम्बर , 1970 को रिजर्व बैंक माफ इंडिया के बैंकिग विभाग के कायकलाप का विवरण । 
देयताएं 

प्रास्तियां 
चुक्ता पूँजी 

5, 00, 00, 000 नोट 
भारक्षित निधि 

150, 00 , 00,000 रुपये का सिक्का 

छोटा सिक्का 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण 

खरीदे और भुनाये गये विस : 
( वीर्षकासीन क्रियाएं ) निधि . 

172, 00, 00, 000 
राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋष 

( क ) देशी . . . 
(स्थिरीकरण ) निधि 

37, 00, 00 , 000 ( ख ) विदेशी . 

( म ) सरकारी खजाना पित 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण 

विदेशों में रखा हुमा बकाया * . 
( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि . 

95, 00, 00, 000 निवेश * * 
बमा - राधियां : 

ऋम और मग्रिम : 
( क ) सरकारी 

(i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार को . 
( i ) केन्द्रीय सरकार 

153,11, 99, 000 ( i ) राज्य सरकारों को @ 
( ii ) राज्य सरकारें . . . 7 , 71, 26, 000 

ऋष मोर भग्रिम : 

(i ) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को . 
( i) अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंक . . 184, 77 , 27, 000 ( i ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को . . 
( i) अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक . . 844,64, 000 (ii) दूसरों को 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन च्यिाएं ) निधि से । 
ऋष , अगिम और निवेश 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


23,42, 83, 000 
101,58,00, 000 
93, 64 ,08, 000 


157, 90, 09, 000 


208, 27 , 90 , 000 
286, 62 , 84, 000 

4, 09, 95 , 000 


23 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


देयताएं 


प्रास्निया 


रुपये 


. 


( iii ) मेर- अनुसूचित राज्य सहकारी बैंक 
(iv ) अन्य बैंक 


( ग ) अन्य 


( क ) ऋण और अग्रिम : 
70, 66, 000 (i ) राज्य सरकारों को . . . 

34 , 33, 19 , 000 
29, 83, 000 (ii ) राज्य सहकारी बैंकों को 

21,59,08, 000 
(iii ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैंकों को 
00, 09, 99, 000 ( ख ) केन्द्रीय भूमिबन्धक बैंकों के डिबेंचरों में निवेस 9, 57, 02, 000 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से ऋण 

भौर अग्रिम 
51, 14 , 26 , 000 गज्य सहकारी बैंकों को ऋण और अग्रिम 

5 , 33, 93, 000 
राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन क्रियाएं ) निधि 

से ऋन, अग्रिम और निवेश 
72,51,84, 000 ( क ) विकास बैंक को ऋण और अग्रिम 

27 , 66, 71, 000 
( ख) विकास बैंक द्वारा जारी किए गए बांडों/डिबेंचरों में निवेश 
अन्य प्रास्तियां 

. 35, 26, 84 , 000 


देय बिल 


अन्य देयताएं 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII 


कश्य 


रुपये . 1027, 81, 54 , 000 रुपये 

. . 1027 ,81, 54, 000 
* नकदी, प्रावधिक जमा और अल्पकालीन प्रतिभूतियां शामिल हैं । 
* * राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋा (दीर्घकालीन त्रियाएं ) निषि और राष्ट्रीय प्रौद्योगिक ऋण (दीर्घकालीन श्यिाएं ) निधि में से किए गए निवेश शामिल नहीं है । 
@ राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋन ( दीर्घकालीन त्रियाएं ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋण और अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं, परन्तु राज्य सरकारों के अस्थायी ओवरड्राफ्ट झामिल हैं । 
रिजर्व बैंक आफ इण्टिया अधिनियम की धारा 1714 ) ( ग) के अधीन अनुसूचित वाणिज्य बैंकों को मियादी बिलों पर अप्रिम दिये गये 71,04, 25 , 000 

रुपये शामिल हैं । 

राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण ( दीर्घकालीन श्यिाएं ) निधि प्रौर राष्ट्रीय कृषि ऋण (स्थिरीकरण ) निधि से प्रदत्त ऋष र अग्रिम शामिल नहीं हैं । 
तारीख 1 16 दिसम्बर , 1970 । 


- 


- 


- 


H 


- 


---- 


रिर्वबैंक आफ इंडिया मधिनियम, 1934 के अनुसरण में दिसम्बर , 1970 की 11 तारीख को समाप्त हुए सप्ताह के लिये लेखा 

इनविभाग 


देवताएं 


रुपये 


रुपये 


मास्तिया 


रुपये 


मपये 


बैंकिंगविभाग में रखे हुए 

नोट 
संचलन में नोट 


18253, 11, 000 


18, 41, 42, 000 
4068, 05, 33, 000 


356, 42, 00, 000 


जारी किए गए कल नोट 


सोने का सिक्का प्रौर बुलियन : 
( क ) भारत में रखा हुमा 
( ब ) भारत के बाहर रखा 

हमा 

विदेशी प्रतिभूतियां 
4086, 46, 75, 000 

जोड़ 
रुपये का सिक्का 
भारत सरकार की रूपया 

प्रतिभतियां . . 
देशी विनिमय बिल और 

दूसरे वाणिज्य -पत्र . 


538, 95 , 11, 000 
55 , 19, 27 , 000 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


3492, 32, 37 , 000 


कुल देयताएं . 


4086, 46 ,75, 000 


कुल मास्तियां . 


4086, 46,75, 000 


तारीख 16 दिसम्बर, 19701 


एस० बगन्नायन , 

मवर्नर । 
[ सं . एफ . 3 ( 3) -वी० सी०/ 70] 

के . येसूरत्नम, मनु- सविद । 


25 


26 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


(Departmont of Banking ) 

( Corporations Branch ) 

New Delhi, the 18th December 1970 
S . O . 15. - In pursuance of clause ( b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of 
the Industrial Finance Corporation Act , 1948 ( 15 of 1948 ) , the Central Govern - - 
ment hereby nominates Shri B . D . Pande, Secretary to the Government of India , 
Department of Industrial Development, Ministry of Industrial Development & 
Internal Trade , as a Director of the the Industrial Corporation of India vice 
Shri T . Swaminathan . 

[ No. F . 2 ( 78)- Corp / 10. 11 

D . K . SEN , Under Secy 
( बंकिंग विभाग ) 

( निग । शाखा ) 

नई दिल्ली, 18 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 15:- प्रौद्योगिक वित्त निगम अधिनियम, 1948 ( 1948 का 15 वां ) की 
धारा 10 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( ख ) का अनुसरण करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा प्रौद्योगिक 
विकास पीर मान्सरिक व्यापार मंत्रालय के प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग के भारत सरकार के सचिव 
श्री बी०डी० पांडे को श्री टी . स्वामीनाथन के स्थान पर भारतीय औद्योगिक वित्त निगम का निदेशक 
नामित करती है । 

[ सं० एफ० 2( 78) - कारपोरेशन / 70 ) 1 

डी० के० सेन , अनु - सचिध । 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance , 

(INCOME-TAX ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd October 1970 
S . O . 16. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) ( b ) of Sec . 
tion 80G of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) , the Central Government hereby 
notifies Shri Satya Gnana Sabai, Vadalar Cuddalore Dist. to be of archaeological 
and artistic Importance for the purposes of the said section . 

[ No. 172( Fr . No. 178 / 14 / 70 -IT ( AI) . 

L . N . GUPTA , Under Secy . 
( राज्सव और बीमा विभाग ) 

( प्रायकर ) 

नई दिल्ली , 23 अक्तूबर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 16. - - प्रायफर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 80 छ 
की उपधारा ( 2 ) ( ख ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
श्री सत्यशाम समाई, बालार , कुड्डालोर जिला की उक्त धारा के प्रयोजन के लिए पुरातात्विक 
और कलात्मक महत्व का घोषित करती है । 


[ सं० 172 ( एफ० सं० 176/ 14/ 70 - आई० टी० ( ए01 ) I 


एल० एन० गप्ता, प्रवर सचिव ।। 


SEC . 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 


27 


(Dopartment of Revenue and Insurance ) 

( INCOME TAX ) 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1970 
S . O . 17. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- clause (111 ) of clause 
( 44 ) of Section 2 of the Income -tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) , the Central Govt .. 
hereby authorises Shri B . R . Sant, who is a Gazetted Officer of the Central 
Government to exercise the powers of a Tax Recovery Officer under the said 
Act . 
2 . This notification shall come into force on 26th October , 1970 . 

[ No. 173 ( F . No. 404 / 167 / 70 -ITCC.Ji 

___ R. D. SAXENA, Dy. Secy .. 
( राजस्व और बीता विभाग ) 

मायकर 

नई दिल्ली , 24 अक्तूबर, 1970 
एम० प्रो० 17. - प्रायकर अधिनियम , 1981 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 2 
के खण्ड ( 44 ) के उपखण्ड ( iii) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय 
सरकार श्री बी० भार० सन्त को , जो केन्द्रीय सरकार के राजपत्रित अधिकारी है, उक्त अधिनियम 
के अधीन कर वसूली अधिकारी की शक्तियों का प्रयोग करने के लिए एतद्वारा प्राधिकृत करती है । 
2. यह अधिसूचना 26 अक्तूबर, 1970 को प्रवृस्त होगी । 

[ सं० 173, फा० सं० 404/ 167/ 70- माई टी सी सी ] 

पार० डी० सक्सेना, उप सचिव 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

New Delhi, the 8th December 1970 
s . o . 18 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 4 ) of sub-section 
( 1 ) of section 27A of the Insurance Act, 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ) as applied to the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India by notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs ) No. G . S . R . 734 , dated 
the 23rd August , 1958, the Central Government hereby declares loans to the 
Housing & Urban Development Finance Corporation Pvt. Ltd . as approved 
investments for the purposes of the above section . 

[ No. F . 8 ( 27 ) -Ins. II / 70. ] 

R . K . MAHAJAN , Dy. Secy . 
( राजस्व और बोला विभाग ) 

मई दिल्ली , 8 दिसम्बर , 1970 
का . प्रा . 18. - - भारत सरकार , विस्त मंत्रालय ( मर्थ कार्य विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
संसा०कानि 734, तारीख 23 अगस्त , 1958 द्वारा भारत के जीवन बीमा निगम को यथा लाग 
बीमा अधिनियम , 1938 ( 1938 का 4 ) की धारा 27 क की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( प ) 

द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा हाउसिंग एण्ड 
प्रर्बन डेवलपमेन्ट फाइनेंस कारपोरेशन प्राइवेट लिमिटेर को दिए गए उधारों को उपर्युक्त धारा के 
प्रयोजनों के लिए अनुमोदित विनिधान घोषित करती है । 

[ सं० फा० 8 ( 27 )-बीमा ॥/ 70] 

भार० के० महाजन , उप सचिव । 


28 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


(Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1970 
s . o . 19. - -In exercise of the powers conferred by section 114 of the Gold 
Control Act , 1968 (45 of 1988 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the fol 
lowing rules to amend the Gold Control ( Froms, Fees and Mistellaneous Matters ) 
Rules , 1968, namely : 

1. ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Gold Control ( Forms, Fees and Mis 
cellaneous Matters ) Amendment Rules, 1970 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official 
Gazette. 

2 . In rule 11 of the Gold Control ( Forms. Fees and Miscellaneous Matters ) 
Rules , 1968 , in sub - rule ( 2 ) , for the words " twelve months " , the words " flve 
years " shall be substituted. 

[ No. F .1 / 185 / 67- GC.II.] 

R . C . MISRA , Dy. Secy . 
( रास्व और बोमा विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली, 10 दिसम्बर, 1970 
एस० प्रो० 19. - स्वर्ण नियंत्रण अधिनियम , 1968 ( 1968 का 45 ) की धारा 144 
व्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा स्वर्ण नियंत्रण ( प्ररुप , फीस और 
धन प्रकीर्ण मामले ) नियम , 1968 में संशोधन करने के लिए निम्नलिखित नियम बनाती है , अर्थात : - - 

1. ( 1 ) ये नियम स्वर्ण नियंत्रण ( प्ररुप, फीत और प्रकीर्ण मामले ) संशोधन नियम, 1970 
कहे जा सकेंगे । 

( 2 ) ये शासकीय राजपत्र में अपने प्रकाशन की तारीख को प्रवृत्त होंगे । 

2. स्वर्ण नियंत्रण ( प्ररुप , फीस और प्रकीर्ण मामले ) नियम , 1968 के नियम 11 में , उप 
नियम ( 2 ) में "बारह मास " शब्दों के स्थान पर " पांच वर्ष " शब्द प्रतिस्थापित किए जाएंगे । 

[ सं० एफ० 1/ 185/ 67-जी०सी० ॥ ] 

पार . सी . मिश्रा , उप सचित्र । 


( Department of Revenue and Insurance ) 

NOTICE 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 
Appointment of valuers u / s 4 (3 ) of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 
S . 0 . 20. - The following additions to this Ministry s Notice No. 5 / 77/ 68 - E. D . 
dated the 6th July 1988 are hereby notified for general information: 

The Central Government propose to appoint qualified persons as Valuers for 
Rubber Estates . The persons so appointed will be categorised as " Specialist in 
Rubber Plantation ". Accordingly , in para 2 of the said Notice after S . No. 12, 
the following shall be added 

13. " Rubber Plantation " 
In order that a persons may be eligible for appointment as a Valuer in this cate 
gory he must satisfy the quallAcations mentioned below : 
( 1 ) The Valuer must be the owner or manager of Rubber Plantation of the 
size of 100 acres%B 

and 
(2 ) he must have at least seven years experience in rubber plantation line . 
This will appear as item ( XI) of para 3, of the sald Notice. 


SBC. 3 ( li ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


29 


. .. 


. 


2 . The other conditions mentioned in the earlier Notice including the scale of 
charges fixed for remuneration of valuers remain unchanged . 

[ No. 300 / 1483 / 70 - E . D. ] 
BALBIR SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


( रामस्व और बीना विभाग ) 


सूचना 


नई दिल्ली, 16 दिसम्बर, 1970 


संपदा शुल्क अधिनियम, 195 3 की धारा 4 ( 3) के अधीन मूल्यांककों की नियुक्ति 

एस० प्रो . 20.-- इस मंत्रालय की सूचना सं० 5/ 77/ 68 ई० डी० तारीख 6 जुलाई, 1968 
में निम्नलिखित परिवर्धन सर्व साधारण की जानकारी के लिए एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित 
किए जाते है : 

केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रहित व्यक्तियों को रबड़ संपदाओं के लिए मूल्यांककों के रूप में नियुक्त 
करने की प्रस्थापना करती है । इस प्रकार नियुक्त व्यक्ति "रबड़ बागान मे विशेषज्ञ " के रूप में 
प्रवर्गीकृत किए जायेंगे । सदनुसार, उक्त सूचना के पैरा 2 में क्रम संख्या 12 के पश्चात् निम्नलिखित 
जोड़ा जाएगा अर्थात : 
13. रबड़ बागान 

इस प्रवर्ग में मल्यांकक के रूप में नियुक्ति के लिए पात्र होने के लिए किसी व्यक्ति को निम्न 
वर्णित प्रर्हताएं अवश्य पूरी करनी चाहिए : 
( 1 ) मूल्यांकक 100 एकड़ के आकार के रबड़ बागान का स्वामी या प्रबन्धक होना चाहिए ; 

और 
( 2 ) उसे रबड़ बागान के काम का कम से कम सात वर्ष का अनुभव होना चाहिए । 
यह उक्त सूचना के पैरा 3 की मंद ( 11 ) के रूप में होगा । 

2 पूर्वोतर सूचना में वर्णित अन्य शर्ते, जिनमें मूल्यांककों के पारिश्रमिक के लिए नियत प्रभार 
सम्मिलित है, अपरिवर्तित रहेंगी । 

[सं० 300/ 1483/ 70 ई० डी० ] 
बलबीर सिंह , उप सचिव । 


• - 


- - - - - -- - . -- 


- - . --. ... 


..... 


- . . - . - . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 


(INCOME- TAX ) 


New Delhi , the 3rd October 1970 


S . O . 21. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
121 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961 ) , the Central Board of Direct Taxes 
hereby makes the following amendments to the Schedule appended to its Noti 
fication No . 20 ( F . No. 55 / 1 / 62-IT ) , dated the 30th April, 1963 published as S. O . 


30 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART 


- 


- 


1293 on pages 1454 -1467 of the Gazette of India Part II Section 3 sub -section (1 ) 
dated the 11th May , 1963 as amended from time to time: 
Against S. No . 9 - B , Madras-II, under Column 3 of the Schedule appended 

thereto ; the following shall be added : 
27 . Retund Circle , Madras. 
This notification shall come into force with immediate effect. 

[ No. 183./ F . No . 187 / 11 / 70 -IT ( AI) .] 

L . N . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड 

( प्रायकर ) 

मई दिल्ली , 3 अक्तूबर, 1970 
का०मा० 21. -.-- आयकर अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1961 का 43 ) की धारा 121 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय प्रत्यक्ष कर बोर्ड समय 
समय पर यथा संशोधित अपनी अधिसूचना सं० 20 (एफ० सं० 55/ 2/ 62- आई० टी० ) 
तारीख 30 अप्रैल , 1963 से संलग्न अनसूची में , जो भारत के राजपत्र, भाग 
2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( ii ) तारीख 11 मई, 1963, के पृष्ठ 145 4 - 1457 पर कार मा० 1293 
के रूप में प्रकाशित हुई थी , निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है । 

क्रम सं० 9- ख, मद्रास II , के सामने , उससे संलग्न अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 3 के नीचे, निम्नलिखित 
जोड़ दिया जायेगा : 

27. वापसी सर्किल , मद्रास 
यह अधिसूचना तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होगी । 
[ सं० 183- एफ० सं० 187/ 11/ 7- प्राई० टी० ( ए० 1) ] 

एल० एन० गुप्ता , अवर सचिव । 


- - - -- - - - -- - - - --- - - - - - - - - -- --- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1970 


8 . 0 . 22 .- In pursuance of Rule 7 of the Export of Mica ( Inspection ) Rules , 
1969 , the entral Government hereby makes the following amendment in the 
" Notification of the Government of India , in the late Ministry of Commerce S. O . 
11111 , dated 23th March, 1987 , namely : 
În the said Notification , in the Table 
tor item ( v ) and ( vii ) of the entry under column 2 against serial No. IV . 

Export Inspection Agency , Calcutta at Kodarma, the following shall 

be substituted, namely 
" ( V ) Shri S. P . Bhadani, M / s. Chotturam Horiram Pvt. Ltd ., P .O . 

Jhumritelalya, Dist. Hazaribagh , Bihar , 
( VII ) Shri Jagdish Prakash Daruka , M / s. Daruka & Company , Kodarma. 
Bihar. 

Convener. 

[ No. 60 ( 71 ) / ELEP / 88 ] 
K . C . SEKHARAN, Dy . Dir. ( Export Promotion ) 


Sec. 3 ( i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 189231 


. 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


विदेशी व्यापार पंत्रालय 

नई दिल्ली, 15 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० मा . 22. - त्र का निर्यात (निरीक्षण ) नियम , 1969 के नियम 7 के अनुसरण 
म केन्द्रीय सरकार, भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व वाणिज्य मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या का मा . 
1111 दिनांक 25 मार्च, 1967 में सारा निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, अर्थात् : 

उक्त अधिसूचना में , सारिणी में : 
क्रमांक 4 कोडरमा में स्थित निर्यात निरीक्षण अभिकरण , कलकत्ता के सामने स्तम्भ 2 

के अन्तर्गत प्रविष्टि की मद ( 5) तथा ( 7 ) के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित प्रतिस्थापित 

किया जायगा , अर्थात् : 
( 5 ) श्री एस० पी० मदानी , 

मेसर्स छोटूराम होरीराम प्रा . लि . , 
पो० प्रा० झुमरीतलैया , 

जिला हजारी बाग, बिहार । 
( 1 ) श्री जगदीश प्रकाश दरुका , 

मेसर्स दरका, एण्ड कम्पनी, 
कोडरमा , बिहार । 

संयोजक । 
[ सं० 60 ( 71)/ ६० आई० ई० पी०/ 66 ] 

० सी० शेखरन , उप-निदेशक । 

(निर्यात संवर्धन ) 


CARDAMOM CONTROL 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1970 
8 . 0 . 28.- - In pursuance of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the 
Cardamom Act, 1965 (42 of 1965 ) read with rule 5 of the Cardamom Rules , 1986 , 
the Central Government hereby noties that Sarvashri K . M . Abraham and A . C . 
George , Members of Parliament, have been elected by the Lok Sabha as members 
of the Cardamom Board , with effect from the 19th November, 1970 . 

[ No. 29 ( 88 ) Plant ( B) / 88 -III. ] 

N . N. MALHAN, Dy. Director . 
( इलायची नियंत्रण) 
नई दिल्ली , 16 दिसम्बर, 1970 


सा० प्रा० 23.--- इलायची नियम , 1966 के नियम 5 के साथ पठित इलायची 
अधिनियम , 1965 ( 1965 का 42 ) की धारा 4 की उपधारा ( 3) के खण्ड ( ग ) के अनुसरण में 
केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा अधिसूचित करती है कि सर्वश्री के . एम० प्रबाहम तथा ए० सी० जार्ज , 
संसद सदस् , लोक सभा द्वारा 19 नवम्बर, 1970 से इलायची बोर्ड के सदस्यों के रूप में निर्वा 
किए गए है । 

[ सं० 29 ( 88) प्लांट ( बी )/ 88- 11] 

एन० एन० मल्हन, उप-निदेशक । 


23 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


- . . 


. . . . . 


- 


.. 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1970 
CORRIGENDUM to Notification No. 9 ( 102 ) / 89 - Tex -l, dated the 6th February , 1970 

8 . 0 . 24 . - In paragraphs 9A (li ) ( d ) and 9 B (11) ( C ) the following may be 
amended to read as under : 

For " One layer of hessian of 400 grms/ 1.8 metre " 
Read " One layer of hessian of 440 grms / 1.8 metre " . 

[ No- 9 ( 102 ) / 70 -Tex. I.] 
DAULAT RAM , Under Secy . 


नई दिल्ली , 31 अगस्त, 1970 
अधिसूचना सं० 9( 102). 69- टैक्स 1 दिनांक 6 फरवरी, 1970 का शुखि -पन्न । 

एस० मो0 24. -- पैरा क ( i ) ( घ ) तथा 9 ख ( ii ) (ग ) में निम्नलिखित को संशोधित 
करके निम्नोक्त रूप म पढ़ा जाये : 

" 400 ग्राम 1. 8 मीटर हैसियन की एक परत " के स्थान पर "440 ग्राम / 1. 8 मीटर हैसियन 
की परत " पड़े । 

[ सं० 9 ( 102) / 70 टैक्स - 1 ] 
दौलत राम , अवर सचिव । 


(ofice of the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 21st April 1970 
S . O . 25 . - - M / s . Chand Parkash & Co . 2170 - Tilak Bazar, Delhi were granted 
permit No. P / E / 0172801 dated 25th October 1969 valued Rs. 20 ,000 for import 
of Fresh Fruits (Grapes ) from Afghanistan under the Indo - Afghan Trade 
Arrangement 1969 - 70. They have applied for the duplicate copy of Exchange 
Control copy of the said permit on the ground that the original copy has been 
lost /misplaced after having been registered with Hussainiwala , Ferozepur Custom 
House and utilised fully . 

In support of their declaration , the party has Aled an amdavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost / 
misplaced . 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No. P / E / 0172801 dated 
25th October , 1968 has been lost /misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
Exchange Control copy of the same may be issued to the applicant. 

The Original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby cancell 
ed . 

[ No. F . 21 ( a) IV / PER/ C -2 / ( 50 ) / A .J.70 / AFTR/ CLA.] 


( संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक, पायात-नियत का कार्यालय ) 

( केन्द्रीय लाइसस क्षेत्र ) 

प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली , 21 अप्रैल, 1970 
एस० प्रो० 25.- - सर्वश्री चन्द प्रकाश एण्ड क०, 2170 तिलक बाजार, दिल्ली को भारत 
अफगान व्यापार व्यवस्था 1969 - 70 के अन्तर्गत अफगानिस्तान से ताजा फलों ( अंगूरों ) के आयात 
के लिए 20, 000 रुपये मूल्य का परमिट सं० पी / ई / 0172801 दिनांक 25 - 10 - 69 प्रदान किया 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 33 
- -- - - - - - - - 
गया था । उन्होंने उक्त परमिट की मुद्रा - त्रिनियम नियमग प्रति की अनुलिपि के लिए आवेदन किया 
है, इसके लिए उन्होंने यह आधार दिया है कि हुसैनीवाला,फिरोजपुर सीमा शुल्क कार्यालय में पंजीकृत 
करने के बाद मल प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है, और उसका पूरा उपयोग कर लिया 
गया है । 


पार्टी ने अपने तर्क के समर्थन में साक्षांकित शपथ - पत्र यह बताते हुए जमा किया है कि उक्त परमिट 
की मुद्रा विनियम नियन्त्रण प्रति खो गई है । गल स्थान पर रख दी गई है । 

मैं इस बात से संतुष्ट हूं कि परमिट स० पी / 01 72801, दिनांक 25 - 10 - 69 की मुद्रा 
विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है और निदेश देता हूं कि इस परमिट 
की मुद्राबिनियम नियन्त्रण प्रति की अनलिपि आवेदक को जारी की जाए । 

एतदद्वारा परमिट की मूल्य मुद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण कार्य संबंधी प्रति रद्द की जाती है । 
[ संख्या० 21 ( ए ) 4/पी० ई०प्रार० / सी - 2/ ( 50 )/ ए . जे . 70/ ए • एफ०टी० प्रार० सी०एल ए 


S . O . 26 . — M / s . Chand Parkash & Co ., 2170 - Tilak Bazar, Delhi were granted 
permit No. P / E / 0172207 dated 7th October , 1969 valued Rs. 30, 000 for import of 
Fresh Fruits ( Grapes ) from Afganistan under the Indo - Afghan Trade Arrange .. 
ment 1969 - 70 . They have applied for the duplicate cop yot Exchange Control 
copy of the said permit on the ground that the original copy has been lost / 
misplaced after having been registered with Hussainiwala , Ferozepur Custom 
House and utilised fully . 

In support of their declaration , the party has filed an affidavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost / 
misplaced . 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No. 0172207 dated 7th 
October , 1969 has been lost / misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of Exchange 
Control copy of the same may be issued to the applicant, 

The original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby can 
celled . 

[ No . 21 ( a ) IV / PER/ C - 2 ( 24 ) / A .J .70 / AFTR / CLA. ] 


ए . मो० 28. ---- सर्वश्री चन्द प्रकाश एंड क० 2170 तिलक बाजार दिल्ली को भारत 
अफगान व्यापार व्यवस्था 1969 - 70 के अर्न्तगत अफगानिस्तान से ताजा फलों ( अंगरो ) के आयात 
के लिए 30, 000 रुपये मूल्य का परमिट सं० पी / ई / 0 172207 दिनांक 7 - 10 - 69 प्रदान किया 
था । उन्होंने उक्त परमिट की मद्रा-विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति की अनलिपि के लिए आवेदन किया है , 
इसके लिए उन्होंने यह आधार दिया है कि सनी वाला फिरोजपुर सीमा - शल्क कार्यालय में पंजीकृत 
करने के बाद मल प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है । उसका पूरा उपयोग कर लिया 
गया है । 

पार्टी ने तर्क के समर्थन में नोटरी द्वारा विधिवत् साक्ष्यांकित शपथ - पत्र यह बताते हुए जमा 
किया है कि उक्त परमिट की मद्रा -विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है । 

मैं इस बात से संतुष्ट हूं कि परमिट सं० 0172207 दिनांक 7 - 10 - 69 की मुद्रा विनिमय 
नयंत्रण प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है और निदेश देता है कि इस परमिट की मद्रा 
विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति की अनलिपि आवेदक को जारी की जाए । 

एतद्वारा परमिट की मूल मुद्रा विनिमय नियंत्रण कार्य संबंधी प्रति रद्द की जाती है । 
[ संख्या 21 (ए ) 4/पी० ई पार ०/सी0 - 2/ ( 24), ए० ज०70 / 
ए एफ . टी . पार०सी० एल०ए 2 


34 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II -- 


s . O . 27 . - M / s . Chand Parkash & Co ., 2170 - Tilak Bazar, Delhi were granted 
perimit No. P / E / 0172263 dated 9th October , 1969 valued Rs. 20, 000 for import 
of Fresh Fruits (Grapes ) from Afghanistan under the Indo - Afghan Trade 
Arrangement 1969- 70 . They have applied for duplicate copy of Exchange Con 
trol Copy of the said permit on the ground that the original cocy has been lost / 
misplaced after having been registered with IIussainiwala , Ferozepur Customs 
House and utilised fully . 


In support of their declaration , the party has filled an affidavit duly attested 
by Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost / 
misplaced . 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control Copy of permit No. P / E / 0172263 dated 
9th October , 1969 has been lost/misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
exchange Control copy of the same may be issued to the applicant. 

The original Exchange Control purposes copy of the permit is hereby cancelled . 
cancelled . 

[ No. F. 21 ( a) IV / PER/ C -2 / (25 ) / A.J.70 / AFTR / CLA.] 
एस० प्रो० 27. --- सर्व श्री चन्द प्रकाश एंड कं० 2170 तिलक बाजार दिल्ली को भारत 
अफगान व्यापार व्यवस्था 1969 - 70 के अन्तर्गत अफगानिस्तान से ताजा फलों ( अंगरों ) के आयात 
के लिए 20, 000 रुपये मूल्य का परमिट सं० पी / ई/ 017 2263 दिनांक 9-- 10 - 69 प्रदान किया 
गया था । उन्होंने उक्त परमिट की मद्रा - विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति की अनुलिपि के लिए आवेदन किया 
है इसके लिए उन्होंने यह अाधार दिया है कि हुसनी वाला फिरोजपुर सीमा - शल्क कार्यालय में पंजीकृत 
करने के बाद मूल प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है और उसका पूरा उपयोग कर लिया 
गया है 

पार्टी ने अपने तर्क के समर्थन में साक्ष्यांकित शपथ -पत्र यह बताते हुए जमा किया है कि उक्त 
परमिट की मुद्रा विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति खो गई है । गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है । 

मैं इस बात से संतुष्ट है कि परमिट स० पी / ई / 0172263 दिनांक 9 - 10 - 69 की मद्रा 
विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति खो गई है - गल्त स्थान पर रख दी गई है और निदेश देता हूं कि इस परमिट 
की मद्रा-विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति की अनलिपि पावेदक को जारी की जाए । 
एतद्वारा परमिट की मल मद्रा - विनिमय नियंत्रण कार्य संबंधी प्रति रद्द की जाती है । 

[संख्या ० 21( ए० ) 4 -पी०/ ई पार० / सी0 - 2 ( 25 )/एजे7 70/ 
ए० एफ० टी० आर० सी० एल० ए ० ] 

New Delhi, the 16th June 1970 
s . o . 28. - M / S . Friend United Company 11 - 12 -13 / A , Bhagirath Palace 
Chandni Chowk, Delhi were granted and Established Imports Licence No. P / E / 
0171002 dated 23rd July , 1969 for Rs. 3232 for import of Books & Periodicals 
as per current Red Book for A . M , 70 L . Period . They have applied for the 
duplicate customs purpose copy of the said licence on the grounds that the 
original has been lost or misplaced . It is , further stated by the film tliat the 
original Customs Purpose Copy of the licence was not registered with any Customs 
House and is unutilised for full amount of Rs. 3232 . 

In support of this declaration , the applicant has filed an affidavit duly attested 
stating that the original Customs Purpose Copy of the licence has been lost or 
misplaced . 

I am satisfied that the original Customs Purpose Copy of the suid licence has 
been lost and direct that a Duplicate Customs Purpose Copy for the amount of 
Rs. 3232 should be issued to the applicant , The original Customs Purpose Copy 
of the licence is cancelled . 

[ No . F. Book / 20 / A. M. 70 / QL / CLA.] 
SARDUL SINGH, Dy. Chief Controller , 

for Jt , Chief Controller . 


Stc. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


35 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


. 


नई दिल्ली , 16 जून, 1970 
एस . प्रो ) 28. - - पर्वश्री प्रेड यनाइटेड क पशी , 11 - 12 - 13/ ए, भगोरथ पनेस, चांदनी 
चौक , दिल्ली को अप्रेल- मार्च 70 की लाइसेंस अवधि के लिए वर्तमान रेड बुक के अनुसार पुस्तकों 
और पत्रिकाओं के प्रायात के लिए 32 32 रुपये का सस्थापित आयातक लाइसेंस संख्या पी / ई / 
0 171062 दिनांक 23 - 7 - 69 प्रदान किय गया था । उन्होने उक्त लाइसेंस की अनलिपि सीमा 
शल्क कार्य संबंधी प्रति के लिए आवेदन किया है इसके लिए यह आधार प्रस्तुत किया है कि मूल प्रति 
खो गई है या गलत जगह पर रख दी गई है । फर्म द्वारा यह बताया गया है कि मल अनलिपि सीमा 
शुल्क कार्य संबंधी प्रति किसी सीमा - शल्क कार्यालय में पंजीकृत नहीं किया गया था और पूरी धनराशी 
3232 रुपये का कोई उपयोग नहीं किया गया था । 

इस घोषणा के समर्थन में यह बताते हुए आवेदक ने विधिवत साक्ष्याकित एक शपथ - पत्र जमा 
किया है कि लाइसेंस की मूल सीमा शुल्क कार्य संबंधी प्रति खो गई है या गलत जगह पर रख दी गई है । 

मैं इस बात से संतुष्ट हूं कि उक्त लाइसेंस की मल सीमा - शुल्क काय संबंधी प्रति खो गई है 
और निदेश देता हूं कि 3232 रुपये कि धन - राशी के लिए आवेदक को एक अनुलिपि सीमा - शुल्क 
कार्य संबंधी प्रति जारी की जानी चाहिए । लाइसेंस की मूल सीमा शुल्क कार्य संबंधी प्रति रद्द की 
जाती है । 

[ किताब / 20/ए एम070/क्पू०एल० सी०एल०ए० ] 

___ सरदूल सिंह, 
उप -मुख्य नियंत्रक आयात -निर्यात 
कृते संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक पायात निर्यात । 


( Office of the Jt . Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

( Central Licensing Area ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th August 1970 
S. O . 29, - M / 5 . Didar Singh Charan Singh, Gandhi Cloth Market, Chandni 
Chowk , Delhi were granted permit No. P / EI/ 0179074 dated 12th December , 1969 
valued Rs. 1, 26 , 000 for imports of Dry Fruits from Afghanistan under Indo 
Afghan Trade Arrangement 1969 - 70 . They have applied for the duplicate copy 
of Exchange Control Copy of the said permit on the ground that the original 
copy has been lost /misplaced after having been registered with Bombay Custom 
House and utilised fully . 

In support of their declaration , the party fled an Affidavit duly attested by 
Notary stating that Exchange Control copy of the said permit has been lost / 
. misplaced. 

I am satisfied that Exchange Control copy of permit No . P / EI/0179074 dated 
12th December , 1969 has been lost / misplaced and direct that duplicate copy of 
Exchange Control Copy of the same may be issucd to the applicant . 

The original Exchange Control purpose copy of the permit is herewith 
cancelled. 

INo. 21 ( a ) IV / PER/ D - I ( 3 ) / A .J. 70 / AFTR/ CLA.] 
R . L . VARMA , Dy. Chief Controller , 

for Jt . Chiet Controller . 


36 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II -- 


----- -- 


- 


-- - -- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक प्राय त-निय त का कार्यलय 

( केन्द्रीय काँग क्षेत्र ) 


अश 


नई दिल्ली, 6 अगस्त , 1370 
एस० प्रो० 29 .- - सर्व श्री दीदार सिह गान्धी क्लाथ माकिट चांदनी चौक दिल्ली को । 
इन्डो - अफगान व्यापार व्यवस्था 1969 - 70 के अन्तर्गत अफगानिस्तान से सूखे फलो के आयात के 
लिए 1, 26, 000 रुपये मूल्य का परमिट संख्या पीई पाई / 0179074 दिनांक 12- 12-- 
69 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्होंने उक्त परमिट की अनु लिपि मद्रा विनिमय नियंत्रण 
प्रति के लिए आवेदन किया है इसके लिए यह आधार दिया है कि मल प्रति बम्बई सीमा शल्क कार्यालय 
के पास पजीकृत कराने तथा पूर्णतया उपयोग करने के पश्चात् खो गई है । गलत स्थान पर रख दी 
गई है । 


अपनी घोषणा के समर्थन में यह बताते हए आवेदक ने नोटरी द्वारा विधिवत साक्ष्यांकित एक 
शपथ पत्र जमा किया है कि उक्त परमिट की मुद्रा विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति खो गई है गलत स्थान 
पर रख दी गई है । 

मैं इस बात से संतुष्ट हूं कि परमिट संख्या पी / ई आई / 0179074 दिनांक 12- 12 - 69 की 
मुद्रा विनिमय प्रति खो गई है । गलत स्थान पर रख दी गई है । और निदेश देता हूँ कि उक्त परमिट 
की अनलिपि मद्राविनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति आवेदक को जारी की जाए । 

मूल मुद्रा -विनिमय नियंत्रण प्रति एतद्वारा रद्द की जाती है । 
[ संख्या ० 21 ( ए ) 4/पी०प्रार /डी0 - 1 ( 3 )/ एज 70/ए०एफ०/ टी / पार० सी०एल०ए०/] 

प्रार , एल० वर्मा, 
उप -मख्य नियन्त्रक आयात-निर्यात , 
कृते संयक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात-निर्यात , । 


( Office of the Chief Controller of Imports & Exports ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1970 
S. O . 30 . - M / s. I. C .I . (India) Private Limited , Bombay , were granted 
licence No. P / D / 21727 / 99 dated 5th December, 1969 under Rupee Area for the 
import of raw materials valued Rs. 2 , 07, 552. They have requested for the issue 
of duplicate Customs copy of the said licence , on the ground that the original 
copy of the licence hase been misplaced without utilising it. The licence has 
not becn registered with any Customs. 

2 . In support of their contention , the applicant have Aled an afhdavit. The 
undersigned is satisfied that the original custom copy of the licence referred to 
have i. e . P / D / 2172799 dated 5th December , 1969, has been lost and directs that 
duplicate copy of the licence in question should be issued to them . The original 
copy is cancelled. 
3. The duplicate copy of the licence is being issued separately , 

[ No. Ch/ I-32( 2 ) / A . M. 70 / R. M 3 / 2205. ] 
G . S . SHARMA, Dy. Chief Controller.. 


SEC. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 37 
- - -- - - - - -- - - - " - - -- - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - 
( मुख्य नियंत्रक , अ . य . त -निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 9 दिसम्बर , 1970 
एस० प्रो० 30 - - सर्व श्री आई० सी० आई० ( इंडिया ) प्रा० लि०, बम्बई को रुपया क्षेत्र 
के अन्तर्गत कच्चे माल का आयात करने के लिए 207552रपये के मुख्य का एक लाइसेंस सं० पी० डी० 
2172799 दिनांक 5 - 12 - 1969 जारी किया गया था । उन्होंने उक्त लाइसेंस की सीमा - शल्क 
सम्बन्धी प्रति की अनुलिपि जारी करने के लिए इस आधार पर आवेदन किया है कि उसकी मूल प्रति 
बिना उपयोग किए उन से प्रस्थानस्थ हो गई है । लाइसेंस किसी सीमा शुल्क विभाग से पंजीकृत नहीं 
कराया गया गया है । 

2. अपने तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदकों ने एक शपथ पत्र दाखिल किया है । अधोहस्ताक्षरी संतुष्ट 
है कि उक्त लाउसेंस की मूल सीमा शुल्क सम्बन्धी प्रति अर्थात स० पी० डी० 2172799, दिनांक 
5 - 12 - 1969 खो गई है तथा निर्देश देता है कि उन को अपेक्षित लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि जारी की जानी 
चाहिए । मूल प्राप्त को रद्द किया जाता है । 

3. लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि प्रति अलग से जारी की जा रही है । 
[ संख्या सी० एच० 1 - 32 ( 2 )/ ए० एम० 70 प्रार० एम० 3, 2205 ] 

जी० एस० शर्मा, 
उप -मुख्य नियंत्रक , पायात-निर्यात । 


(Office of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDER 

NE2 Ferhi , the 15th December 1970 
S . O . 31, - The Directo : Pcvenue Intelligence , Dic. of Revenue Intelligence , 
Block D Indraplu..tha Bhavan, New Delhi , were granted licence No. G / AU/ 
1032787 / XX / 25 / C / H / 25 dated 18th July , 1967, from free resources for import 
of Agfa copyrapid paper etc. valued at Rs. 1082. They have requested for the 
issue of duplicate copy of ( exchange control purposes copy ) the licence on the 
ground that the original Exchange Control Copy of the licence has been lost 
by them . It has been further reported by the licensee that the licence was lost 
after the utilisation of Rs. Nil and the licence was registered with the Collector 
of Customs. Bombay . 

In support of their contention the applicant have filed an affidavit. The 
- undersigned is satisfied that the original Exchange Control copy of the licence 
No, G / AU / 1032787 dated 18th July , 1967 has been lost and directs that a dupli 
cate Exchange control copy of the said licence should be issued to them . The 
original Exchange Control copy is cancelled . A duplicate copy of the licence 
is being issued separately . 

[ No. Cont. / 108 / 67-68 / PLS / B / 93. ] 
( मख्य नियंत्रक , आयात निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 


प्रादेश 


नई दिल्ली, 15 दिसम्बर 1970 
एस० प्रो० 31. - - डाइरेक्टर , रेवन्यू इन्टेलीजेंस , डाइरेक्टोरेट आफ रेवन्यू इटलीजेंस , 
ब्लाक डी इन्द्रावस्था भवन , नई दिल्ली को मक्त स्रोतों से अगफा कोपिरेपिड पेपर के प्रायात के लिए 
1082 रुपये का प्रायात लाइसेंस संख्या जी० एयू०/ 1032787 सी० एक्स० एक्स0 / 25/ सी० एच०/ 
25, दिनांक 18 - 7 - 1967 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्होंने उक्त लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि प्रति ( मद्रा 


38 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


- 


- 


विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति ) के लिए इस आधार पर अनुरोध किया है कि मूल मुद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति , 
उनके द्वारा खो गई है । फर्म द्वारा आगे यह बताया गया है कि लाइसेंस सीमा शुल्क समाईता बम्बई के 
साथ पंजीकृत किया गया था और बिना उपयोग किए ही खो गया था । 

अपने तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शपथ पत्र जमा किया है । अधोहस्ताक्षरी इससे संयष्ट 
है कि लाइसेस संख्या जी / एयू0/ 1032787, दिनांक 18 -- 7 - 67 की मुल मुद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण 
प्रति खो गई है और निदेश देता है कि आवेबक को उक्त लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि मुद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण 
प्रति जारी की जानी चाहिए । मूल मद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण प्रति रद्द की जाती है । लाइसेंस की अनलिपि 
प्रति अलग से जारी की जा रही है । 

[ संख्या सेंट 108/ 67 - 68-पी० एल० एस०, बी० 
$ .0 . 32 . — The Managing Director, Punjab Dairy Development Corpn . Ltd . . 
Kothi No . 1560 , Sector 18 - D Chandigarh (Punjab ) was granted import licence . 
No. G / A / 1039785 dated 18th September , 1969 from G . C . A . for import of spare 
parts for Butter Churn Type U . G . H . 40 as per list attached to the licence valued . 
at Rs. 40,630 only . He has now requested for issue of duplicate copy of the 
licence (both customs & exchange purposes copies ) on the ground that the 
original licence (both copies with list of goods ) has been lost /misplaced without 
having been registered with any customs authority and utilised at all. 


In support of this contention the applicant has filed an affidavit. The under 
signed is satisfied that both copies of the original licence No. G / A / 1039785 dated 
18th September , 1969 have been lost and directs that duplicate licence of the . 
said licence should be issued both for Customs and Exchange Control Purposes. . 


The Original licence in duplicate has been cancelled . Duplicate licences for 
both copies are being issued separately . 

[ No. 2 / SG / 191 / 67- 68 / PLS/ B. ]. 
S . K . USMANI , Dy. Chief Controller . 

for Chief Controller. 
एस० प्रो० 32 - दि मैंनेजिंग डायरेक्टर , पंजाब डेरी डेवेलपमेंट कार्पोरेशन लिमिटेड, 
फोठी संख्या 1560, सैक्टर 17 - डी , चंडीगढ़ (पंजाब ) को सामान्य क्षेत्र से लाइसेंस के साथ संलग्न 
सूची के अनसार यू० जी० एच० 40 किस्म के मथन होल के फालतु पुर्जी के आयात के लिए 40, 306 / 
रुपये मान का आयात लाइसेंससंजी०ए० / 1039785, दिनांक 18 - 9 - 1969 स्वीकृत किया गया था । 
उन्होंने अब उक्त लाइसेस की अन् लिपि प्रति ( दोनों सीमा शुल्क तथा मद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण प्रतियों ) 
के लिए इस आधार पर अनुरोध किया है कि मूल लाइसेंस की ( दोनों प्रतियां माल की सूची के साथ ) 
बिना किसी सीमा शुल्क प्राधिकारी के पास पंजीकृत कराए तथा उपयोग किए खो गया है/ गलत स्थान 
पर रख दिया गया है । 

अपने तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शपथ पत्र जमा किया है । अधोहस्ताक्षरी इससे संतुष्ट 
है कि मूल लाइसेंस संख्या जी०/ ए0/ 1039785 दिनांक 18 - 9 -- 1969 की दोनों प्रतियां खो गई हैं 
भौर निदेश देता है कि उक्त लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि लाइसेंस सीमा - शुल्क तथा मद्रा विनियम नियंत्रण 
प्रतियां दोनों जारी की जानी चाहिए । 

मूल लाइसेंस दो प्रतियों में रद्द किया जाता ह । साना प्रतियों के लिए अनलिपि लाइसेंस अलग 
से जारी किए जा रहे हैं । 
[संख्या 2, एस० जी० 191 / 67-68,पी० एल० एस० बी० ] 

एस० के० उस्मानी, 
उप -मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात -निर्यात , 
कृते मुख्य नियंत्रक , प्रायात-निर्यात ।। 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


39 


( Ofice or the Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

(Central Licensing Area ) 

CANCELLATION ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th October, 1970 
S . O . 33. - -- M / S . Raj Kumar Foundary and Engineering Works ( Regd . ) , G . 
T . Road , Batala were granted licence No. P / S / 1611118 / C - OR - 27- D - 25 - 26 dated 
7th May , 1968 Tor Rs. 8516 / - for Import of ( 1 ) Roller Bearings other than those 
specified in appendix , 14 ( 5 ) of AM .69 Red Book Vol I ( 2 ) Tapar Roller Bearings 
other than those specified in appendix. 14 ( 6 ) of AM. 69 Red Book Vol. I. They 
have applicd for duplicate copy of Customs Purposc copy of the licence on the 
ground that the original Custom Purpose copy has been lost /misplaced . It is 
further stated by the party that the original Custom Purpose Copy of the licence 
was not registered with any Customs authority and was not utilised at all . 

In support of this contention , the applicant has Aled an affidavit . 

I am satisfied that the original Custom Purpose copy of licence No . P / S / 
1611118 / C - OR- 27 - D - 25 - 26 dated 7th May, 1968 has been lost / misplaced und 
direct that the duplicate licence ( Custom Purpose copy ) may be issued to the 
applicant. The original Custom Purpose copy of licence in question is hereby 
cancellcd . 

[ No . NP / 286 / AM. 68 / AUPB / CLA. ] 
A. L. BHALLA, Dy Chief Controller . 

for Jt . Chief Controller . 
( संयुगप्त मु य नियंत्रक , प्रायात निर्यात का कार्यालय ) 

( केन्द्रीय लाइसेंस क्षेत्र ) 

मावेश 

नई दिल्ली , 15 अक्तूबर, 1970 
एस० पी० 33. --- सर्व श्री राज कुमार फाउन्ड्री इन्जी० वर्कस ( रजि . ) जी० पी० 
रोड , बटाला को ( 1 ) अप्रैल-मार्च, रेड बुक के वालम 1 के परिशिष्ट 14 ( 5 ) में विशिष्टिकृत के 
अतिरिक्त अन्य रोलर बेयरिंग ( 2 ) अप्रैल मार्च, 69 के वालुम 1 के परिशिष्ट 14 ( 6 ) में 
विशिष्टकृत के अतिरिक्त अन्य देपर रोलर बेयरिंग के आयात के लिए 8516 रुपये का 
पायात लाइसेंस सं० पी० एस० / 1611118/ सी०/ प्रो० आर० - 27 - डी0 - 25 - 26, दिनांक 
7 - 5 - 68 प्रदान किया गया था । उन्होंने उक्त लाइसेंस की अनुलिपि सीमा 
शल्क कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति जारी करने का अनरोध किया है, इसके लिए यह प्राधार दिया 
है कि मुल सीमा शुल्क कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति खो गई है । गलत स्थान पर रख दी गई है । फर्म द्वारा आगे 
यह बताया गया है कि उक्त लाइसेंस की मूल सीमा शुल्क कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति किसी भी सीमा शुल्क 
प्राधिकारी के पास पंजीकृत नहीं कराई गई थी । और उस का बिकूल उपयोग नहीं किया गया था । 

अपन तर्क के समर्थन में आवेदक ने एक शथ पत्र जमा किया है । मैं इस बात से 
संतुष्ट हूं कि लाइसेंस सं० पी एस0 / 1611118 सी० प्रो० प्रार - 27 - डी0 - 25 - 26 दिनांक 
7 - 5 - 68 की मूल सीमा - शुरुक कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति खो गई है । गलत स्थान पर रख दी गई 
है और निदेश देता है कि अनुलिपि लाइसेंस ( सीमा शरक कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति ) प्रायेदक को जारी की 
जाए । उपयुत्त लाइसेंस की मूल सीमा शुरक कार्य सम्बन्धी प्रति रद्द एतदद्वारा की जाती है । 
[ संख्या एन० पी० / 286/ ए० एम० 68/ एयू० पी० बी०सी० एल० ए० ] 

ए० एल० भल्ला , 
उप - मुख्य नियंत्रक आयात-निर्यात , 
कृते संयुक्त मुख्य नियंत्रक , आयात -निर्यात । 


to THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART II - 
- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 

MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 
S . O . 34 , In pursuance of sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the Aircraft Rules, 1937 , 
and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Transport and Communications (Departments of Communications and 
Civil Aviation ) No . GSR 840 dated the 9th May , 1963, the Central Government 
hereby authorises the following persons also to grant or renew Student Pilot s 
Licence referred to in clause ( a ) of rule 38 and in Section B of Schedule II to 
the said Rules with effect from 1st January , 1971 , namely . 

1 . The Honorary Secretary of Flying Clubs / Gliding Clubs /Gliding Wings. 
2 . The Principal, Government Flying Training School, Bangalore, 
3 . The Administrator, Hind Flying Club Ltd ., Lucknow . 
4 , The Vice -President, Rajasthan Flying Club /Gliding Wing, Jaipur. 
5 . The Manager , Amritsar Aviation Club, Amritsar . 
6 . The Administrative Officer, West Bengal Government Flying Training 

Institute , Behala , Calcutta . 
7. The Executive Officer, Hissar Aviation Club / Gliding Wing, Hissar . 
8. The Secretary , Birla Gliding Club, Pilani. 
9 . The Secretary , Gliding & Soaring Club , Kanpur. 
10 . The Senior Gliding Instructor / Instructor - in - Charge, Government Gliding 
Centre, Poona . 

[ No . F . 10- A / 11-70/ AR/ 1937 (3 ) / 1970 . ] 

S . N . KAUL , Dy. Secy . 


पर्यटन तथा नागर विमानम मत्रालय 

नईदिल्ली , 16 दिसम्बर 1970 
का० प्रा० 34.-~ - वायुयान नियम , 1937 के नियम 3 के उप नियम ( 2 ) के अनुसरण में 
भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व परिवहन और संचार मंत्रालय (संचार और सिविल विमानन विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना सं० सा० का०नि० 840, तारीख 9 मई, 1963 को अधिक्रांस करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा 1 जनवरी , 1971 से उक्त नियमों के नियम 38 के खंड ( क ) म और अनु 
सूची ।। के खंड ख मैं निर्दिष्ट छात्र पायलट अनशप्ति मंजर करने या नवीकरण करने के लिए 
निम्नलिखित व्यक्तियों को भी प्राधिकृत करती है , अर्थात ---- 

1 . उड़ान क्लब/ ग्लाईडिंग क्लब ग्लाईडिंग विग्स के अवतनिक सचिव । 
2 . प्रधानाचार्य, गवर्नमेंट फ्लाईग ट्रेनिंग स्कूल, बंगलोर । 
3 . प्रशासक , हिन्द फ्लाइंग क्लब लिमिटेड , लखनऊ । 
4 . उपाध्यक्ष , राजस्थान फ्लाइंग क्लब ग्लाइडिंग विग , जयपुर । 
5 . प्रबंधक, अमृतसर एविएशन क्लब, अमृतसर । 
6 . प्रशासनिक अधिकारी, पश्चिमी बंगाल सरकार फ्लाइंग ट्रेनिग इन्सटिटयूट, बेला, 

कलकत्ता । 
7 . कार्यपालक अधिकारी, हिसार एविएशन क्लब ग्लाइंडिग विग , हिसार । 
8 . सचिव , बिडला ग्लाईडिंग क्लब , पिलानः । 
9 . सचिव , ग्लाइंडिग एण्ड सोअरिंग क्लब, कानपुर । 
10 . ज्येष्ठ ग्लाइडिंग अनुदेशक अनुदेशक प्रभारी, गवर्नमेंट ग्लाईडिग सेन्टर, पूना । 
[ पं० फा० 10- / 11- 70/ए० प्रार०/ 1937 ( 3)/ 1970 ] 

सुरेन्द्र नाथ कोल , उप सचिव । 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


41 


-- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 


( P. & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 18th December 1970 
S . O . 35. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of the Indian 
Post Office Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
Ing rules further to amend the Indian Post Office Rules , 1933, namely - - 

1. ( 1 ) These Rules may be called the Indian Post Office ( Eleventh Amendment) 
Rules , 1970 . 

(2 ) They shall come into force at once. 
2 . In the Indian Post Ofice Rules, 1933, in sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 92, for the 
word " Parcel ", wherever it occurs, the words " postal article " shall be substituted . 

[ No. F. 37 / 7 / 70 - CN ] 
A . D . PISHARODY, Dy. Dir . General (Mails ) . 
संचार विभाग 

( डाफ - सार बोर्ड ) 
नई दिल्ली , 18 दिसम्बर , 1970 


का० आ० 35 : - - भारतीय डाकघर अधिनियम , 1898 ( 1898 का 6 ) की धारा 
30 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा निम्नलिखित नियम बनाती 
है , अर्थात - -- 


1. ( 1 ) ये नियम भारतीय डाकघर ( ग्यारहवां संशोधन ) नियम, 1970 कहे जा सकेंगे । 
( 2 ) ये तुरन्त प्रवृत्त होंगे । 

2. भारतीय डाकघर नियम , 1953 म नियम 92, के उपनियम ( 2 ) में “पार्सल शब्द 
के स्थान पर जहां कहीं भी यह प्राता है "डाक वस्तु शब्द प्रतिस्थापित किए जायेंगे । 

[ संख्या 37 / 7/ 70 -सी० एन० ] 

ए० डि० पेषारोडि, 
उप महानिदेशक ( डाक ) 


- 


- - 


-- - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- - - --- - 


- 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH , FAMILY PLANNING , W .H . & U .D . 

( Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 16th November 1970 
S . O . 36 . - Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Health No. 17 - 2 / 59 -MI, dated the 1st April, 1960 , the Central Goy 
ernment has directed that the Medical qualification " M . D . " grænted by the Uni 
versity of Toronto Canada shall be recognised medical qualification for the pur 
pose of the Indian Medical Council Act 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) ; 


And Whereas Dr, Walter Gilary Anderson who possesses the said qualifcation 
is for the time being attached to the Masini Şewa Mandal, Malwa Church Council, 
Ratlam , Madhya Pradesh for the purposes of teaching and charitable work ; 

Now, Therefore , in pursuance of clause ( c ) of the proviso to sub -section ( 1 ) 
of section 14 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby specifles 

( 1) a further period of two years with effect from the 19th March , 1970 or 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - - 


( ii ) the period during which Dr. Walter Gilary Anderson is attached to the 

said Masini Sewa Mandal, Malwa Church Council, Ratlam , Madhya 
Pradesh whichever is shorter , as the period to which the medical 
practice by the aforesaid doctor shall be limited . 

[ No. F . 19-16 / 70- MPT ] 
M . C . MISRA , Dy. Secy 


स्वास्थ्य , परिवार नियोजन,निर्माण , प्राघास एवं नगर विकास मंत्रालय 

( स्वास य विभाग ) 
नई दिल्ली , 16 नवम्बर 1970 


एस० ओ० 36 : - यतः भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व स्वास्थ्य मंत्रालय की दिनांक 1 अप्रैल 
1960 की अधिसूचना सं0 17 - 2/ 59 - ए० आई० द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने निदेश दिया है कि 
भारतीय चिकित्सा परिषद् अधिनियम , 1956 ( 1956 का 102 ) के प्रयोजनो के लिए टोरोन्टो 
विश्वविद्यालय कनाडा द्वारा अनुदत्त “ एम डी नामक चिकित्सा अर्हता मान्यताप्राप्त चिकित्सा 
अर्हता होगी : 

और यत : डा० वाल्टर गिलर एण्डनसन को जिनके पास कि उक्त प्रहता है फिलहाल 
मसीनी सेवा मंडल , मालवा चर्च परिषद् , रतलाम , मध्य प्रदेश के साथ अध्यापन और धर्मार्थ कार्य 
के प्रयोजनों के लिए लगाया गया है । 

प्रतः अब उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 14 की उप धारा (1) के परन्तुक के खण्ड ( ग ) का 
पालन करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा : 

(i ) 19 मार्च 1970 से दो वर्ष की एक और अवधि को , अथवा 
( ii ) डा . वाल्टर गिलरे ऐण्डरसन की मसीनी सेवा मण्डल , मालवा चर्च परिषद , 

रतलाम , मध्य प्रदेश से संबद्ध रहने की अवधि को , 
जो भी कम हो , वह अवधि विनिर्दिष्ट करती है जिसमे कि पूर्वोक्त डाक्टर की मेडीकल 
प्रैक्टिस सीमित होगी । 

[ सं० फ . 19- 16/ 70 -एम० पी० टी० ] 


महेश चन्द्र मिश्र, उप सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 


S . O . 37 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 19 of the Cinemato 
graph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri 
Pratap Krishan, Joint Director , Farm and Home, Directorate General, All India 
Radio, New Delhi, to officiate as Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors , 
Bombay with effect from the afternoon of 20th November , 1970 , until further 
orders vice Shri K . Dixit retired from service . 


[ No. F . 2 / 106 / 70-FC. ] 


VIRENDRA D . VYAS, Deputy Secy . 


SEC. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


43 


- 


सूचना और प्रसारण मंत्रालय 

76 foot, 7 giraT 1970 
peo # 37 - -79 fa ( 317 ) fryhjät, 1958 # friet 10GTET TEH 
अधिकारों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार ने एतद्द्वारा श्री प्रताप कृष्ण , संयुक्त निदेशक , 
STÅ 977 TE , 912797910T HEIGT74 , 70 farifi al 20 faiz ? , 1970 99TIF Ħ 
मगले आदेश तक , श्री के० डी० दीक्षित , जो सेवा निवृत्त हो गये हैं , के स्थान पर केन्द्रीय फिल्म सेंसर 
बोर्ड बम्बई के प्रादेशिक अधिकारी के रूप में स्थानापन्न रुप से नियक्त किया है । 


( 184T 2/ 106 /70 – 240 fto ] 
वीरेन्द्र देव ध्यास , उप -सचिव । 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS AND MINES AND METALS 

(Department of Petroleum ) 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1970 
S . O . 38 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is 
necessary in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well 
No . 132 ( KGL ) to GSS V , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
& Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is . 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i) of 
the section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) 
Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to 
acquire the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days 
from the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under 
the land to the Competent Authority , Oil & Natural Gas Commission , Construc 
tion & Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda- 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 


For Laying Pipeline from Well No. 132 (KHL ) to GGS V 
State : Gujarat 

Dist : Mchgana Taluka : Kalol 


Village 


S . No. Block No . 


Hectare 


Are 


P . Ato 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


VADAWSWAMI 


195 
194 
167 
169 
170 


. 
, 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 

. 



. 


v. P. Cari Track 


OOOOOOOOOOO 


COOHAAWAL 


121 
135A 
V . 
122 


art Track 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


44 
- 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II _ 
- - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -- - - -- - - 


- 


-- --- - - - - 
VADAW SWAMI 134 . 

135 . 
I32 

I27 
ISLAND 

755 . 
65424 . 
754 3 . 
654 / I . 


mooOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


743 


. 


744 . . 
742 
V . P. Cart Track . 
745 
688 


.१००००००००० 


- 


- - 


( No. 20 (3)/ 70 -IOC /Lab. & Legis.).] 
पैट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा पातु मंत्रालय 

( पेट्रोलियम विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली , 14 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 38. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत ह 

० - - रात केन्तीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता कि लोकहित में यह प्रावश्यक 
है कि गुजरात राज्य में कुआं संख्या 132 ( के ० जी० एल० ) से जी० जी० एस० 5 तक पैट्रोलियम 
के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अनुसूची 
‘ मे वणित भूमि में , उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है : 

अतः, अब, पटोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भमि म उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमे उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के बीच पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, - - -- -- -- - - -- तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग ,निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग 
मकरपुरा रोड, बरोदा- 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह 
चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फन । 


अनुसूची 
कुप्रा संख्या 132 ( के० जी० एल० ) से जी०जी० एस० 5 सक पाइपलाइनबिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : मेहसाना . . तालुका : कलोल 
सर्वेक्षण संख्या ब्लाक संख्या हैफ्टर 

पी० पार 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - 


- - - - - 


- 


प्रार 


छ 


वादव स्वामी 


195 
104 
167 


89 
76 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 45 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

2 

3 + 5 


- - - - - - - 


o 


N 


44K 


04 


0 


169 
170 
169 

tiin to 
121 
13 : 7 
व गोवाटक 
122 
134 
133 
132 
127 


sitoNo 


इन्द 


755 
654 / 4 
751/ 3 
054 / 1 
743 
744 
712 
कोपी कर्ट ट्रैक 
745 
688 
682 


No1Noon- 


25 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


For 20 ( 3 ) / 70 - 20 to progir TFT 


S . O . 39 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is 
necessary in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from well 
No. KHV ( 130 ) to GGS V , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil 
& Natural Gas Commission ; 


And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the schedule 
annexed hereto ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( i ) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelincs ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 


Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the Pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission Construction & 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 


And every person making such an objection shall also state specificially 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


46 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART II — 


- -- 


- 


- - - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- -- - - - 


SCHEDULE 
For Laying Pipeline from Well No. KHV ( 130) to GGS V 
Stalc : Gujarat 

Dist, : Mehsa ;ia Taluka : Kalol 
- -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -.-.. . - - . -. 
Village Sureey No. 

Hectare Arc 

- - - 
CHHATRAI 


P . Are 


91 


210 
215 


212 


446 . . . 
448 . . 
449 . . 
450 
V . P . Catt Track . 
451 . 
452 / 2 . 


OOOOOUUOUOOOoi 


ISAND 


682 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


- - - - - - 


- - 


- . .. 


. 


[ ( No. 20 ( 3) / 70 -IOC / Lab . & Legis.) ] 
का० मा0 39 . - घत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह प्रावश्यक 
है कि गुजरात राज्य में के एव० वी० ( 130 ) से जो० जी० एस० Vतक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के 
लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए ; 

प्रोर यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबद्ध अनु . 
सुची म वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है ; 

__ अतः, अब , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रजन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना पासप एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्त कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, -- - - - - - तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग , निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग , 
मकरपुरा रोड,बरौदा- 9 को इस अधिसूचना का सार ख से 21 दिन के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और जेसा आक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि धया वह यह 
चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


अनुसूची 
कुत्रासंख्या के ० एच० वी० ( 130 ) से जी० जी० एस० V तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : मेहसाना तालुका : कलोल 


- - - . 


... 


নি 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हक्टर 


प्रार 


पी पार 


छतराल 


7 


210 
215 
212 


10 


91 
75 
79 


- - 


- - 


- - - - - 


47 


SEC . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 
- = = - - - -- - - - - " *** - - H 

- - - - - - - - - - - 


2 


444 
443 
446 


600Ni 


148 


enN 


449 
450 
वीपी कार्ट ट्रैक 
451 
452 / 2 
682 


ono 


इमन्द 


12 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


[ 20 ( 3 ) / 70 10 to OTO TOG TO ] 


S . O . 40. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mincs and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum ) S . O . No . 1785 , dated 29th April 1970 under sub - section ( 1) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 1962 ( 50 
of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And whereas , the competent authority has , under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of thc said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And , further , whereas , the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 

And, further, in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of that 
section , the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said lands 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
wall encumbrances, 

SCHEDULE 
For Laying Pipcline from Well No . 44 (KAEG to GIIS ) 
Slate :Gujarat D st :Gandhinagar Taluka : Gandhinagar 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


Village 


Survey No. 


Hectare 


Are P . Are 
-- - - - - 


. 


TITODA 

1972 ( Hlock No. 825 ) . 
BIIOYAN RATHON 143 . 


144 / 1 


II 
17 
13 


145 . 
146 . 
14712 . 
147 ) I . 
148Ib . 
1481 A 


W00000000 


HN 


- - 


- 


- 


[NO. 20 (3 )/67-10C /Lab . & Legis.] 


AUS 


48 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12, 1892 [PART II - 
--- - - -- - - - - --- - -- - -- - - -- - - - - --- - - - --- - - - -- -- -- - -- - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - - 

का० प्रा० स०40 , --- यतः पोलियम , पाइप लाइन ( भमि के उपयोग के अधिकार का 
अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन भारत सरकार 
के पट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा धातु मन्त्रालय ( पोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना का 
प्रा० स० 1385 तारीख 29 - 1 - 70 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस अधिसूचना से सलग्न अनुसूची में 
विनिदिष्ट मियो के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइपलाइन को निछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अजित करने 
का अपना आशय घोषित कर दिया है । 


और यत : सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
सरकार को रिपोर्ट दे दी है । 

और आग , यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात् इस अधिसूचना 
से सलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियो मे उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का विनिश्चय किया है । 

अब , अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से सलग्न अनुसूची में विनिदिष्ट 
उपत मियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा अर्जित किया 
जाता है । 

और, आगे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार निदेश देती है कि उ त भमियो में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के 
बजाय तेल और प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी प्रबन्धकों से मक्त रूप मे , इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की 
इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


अनुसूची 
कुआं संख्या 44 ( के० ए० ई० ) से जी० जी० एस० II तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : गांधीनगर तालुका : गांधीनगर 

-- - .. - - - - - -- -- - - - - - --- -- - 
गांव सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर पार 

पी पार 


- 


टिटोडा 


1072 ( ब्लाक संख्या 825 ) 0 


68 


भोपानपाड 


143 
114 / 1 
145 
116 
1472 
147 / 1 
148/ 1बी 
148/ 10 


- - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


[ संख्या 20( 3)/ 67आई० प्रो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेजिस ] 


Soc. 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 4 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


49 


8 . 0 . 41. Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metal. (Department of 
Petroleum ) S . O . No. 1788 , dated 29th April 1970 under pub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 1962 (50 
of 1982 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands gpecified in the schedule appended to that notincation for the 
purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And whereas, the competent authority has , under sub -section ( 1 ) of section & 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And, further , whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
Teport , decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of uger in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notincation is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines : 


And , further , in exercise of the powers conferred bysub - section ( 4 ) of that 
section , the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said lande 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
all encumbrances , 

BCHEDULE 
For laying Pipeline from Well No. 97 (KU ) to GGSII 
State : Gujarat Distt , : Gandhinagar 

Taluka : Gandhinagar 


Village 


Suivay No. 


Hectate 


Are 


P . Arc 


SERTHA 


Villase penchtyet cait truck 
1081/ 1. , 2 , 3 , 4 Paiki 
1081 / 1 2 , 3 , 4 Pajki 
1982 ) 1A 
1982 ) 1 B 
1983 ) 1 
10832 
1983 / 3 
1984 ) 1 
1989) . 
19852 . . . 
108513 

DISTECT : Mehsana 


OOOOOOOOOO 


OO 


STATE : Gujarat 


TALUKA : Kalol 


SAI) 


[No. 20(3)/87- 10C /Lab. & Legis.] 
klo ato 41 : - 47: dafaya , 4794 YTTY (WFT i goste i afar FT 
a ) farfa44, 1962 ( 19627 30) per 3 # Tuta ( 1) * ATT HTET EOTC 
केपोलियम तथा रसायन पौर बाम तथा धातु मशालय (पेट्रोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 

TO PTO RO 1786 arta 29 – 4 – 70 art to CAT * 3 oferta o 
अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप लाइनों को विछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 
अपित करने का अपना भाशय पोषित कर दिया था । 

मीर मसः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने अधिनियम की धारा को उपधारा ( 1) के बीच 
W fidt til 


so 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 18921 [ PART ILL 


पौर भागे, यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात इस अधिसूचना से 
सलग्न अनुसूची मे विनिर्दिष्ट भमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का विनिमय किया है । 


प्रय, प्रतः उफ्त अधिनियम की धीरा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति , का प्रयोग 
करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा घोषित करती कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न मन सूची मे बिनिदिष्ट 
उनत भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारा प्रजित किया 
जाता है । 


मोर, मागे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार मे विहित होने के बजाय 

और प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग में , सभी बधको से मुक्त रूप मे , इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की तारीख 
को निहित होगा । 


अनुसूची 


कुंमां सर या 97 (के० माई० जी० ) से जी०जी० एस० 11 क पाइप लाइन बिछा 


गाय : गुजरात 


जिला : गांधीनगर 


तालका : गांधीनगर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


पार 


पी पार 


था सेर 


० 
० 
0 


गांव पंचायत कार्ट ट्रैक 
1081/ 1, 2, 3, 4 पैकी 
1081/ 1, 2,3,4, पंकी 
1002/ 1ए 
1082/ 1बी 
1083/ 1 
1083 / 2 
1038/ 3 
1084 / 1 
1085/ 1 
1085/ 2 
1085 / 3 
जिला मेहसाना 


गजरात 


तालुका 


कलोल 


0637 


916 
914 


[ सं० 20 ( 3)/ 67 पाई० पो० सी० लेबर एण्ड लेगिस 


Sec . 3(i ) ] THE GAZETTB OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


SI 


8 . 0 . 42 . - Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum ) S . O . No. 1787 , dated 29th April, 1970 under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 
(50 of 1982) , the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right 
of User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for 
the purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And whereas, the competent authority has, under sub -section ( 1) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And , further, whereas , the Central Government has , after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specifled in the schedule 
appended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 

And , further , in exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of that 
section , the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said lands 
shall instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
all encumbrances, 


SCHEDULE 


For laying pipeline from Well No. 26 (KY ) to Well No. 57 (KFC) to GGS II 


Jute : Gujarat Deatrict : Gandiagar : Taluka : Gandinagar 


- Turn 


Hectave 


AIA 


P . Arc 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - 


DO 


Village 

Survey No. 
mm - - - - - - - - - - 
BHOYAN RADHOD 3! . . . . . . 

Vintage PanchyatCart Terock 
349 . . . 
Village panchyat cárt track 
251 . . . . 
235 
villa e panchyat cart track . 
243 . . . - 
Village panchyat cart track 


. 


00000000000000 


NOGONNOMO 


242 


91 


194 
195 


61 
16 


, 


[No. 20 (3 )/67- 10C / Lab. & Legis.] 


TO OTO 42 : - : Tfq44 , 9149 ITA ( # 39871 # far 41 451 ) 
ufafa- , 1962 ( 1962 47 50 ) Tatay 3 art ( 1 ) TETT NERT HATTE 
पेट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा धातु मंत्रालय ( पेट्रोलियम विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
# TOTOO 1787 arta 29 - 4 - 1970 &TT TATA 5 fun forat 4 
सूपी में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप लाइनों को विछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 
अजित करने का प्रपना माशय घोषित कर दिया था । 


मोर यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के मेधीन सरकार 
* fata 


THE GAZBTTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [PAKT IK 


पौर मागे, मतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उक्त रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात इस अधिसूचना 
से संलग्न अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करने का विनिमय किया है । । 

अम , प्रतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए फेन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना में संलग्न अनुसूची 
में विनिर्दिष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदद्वारा 
अजित किया जाता है । 

पौर , प्रागे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित होने के बजाय 
तेल और प्राकतिक गस प्रायोग में , सभी बंधकों से मक्त रूप में , इस घोषणा के प्रकाशन की इस तारीख 
को निहित होगा । 

अनुसूची 
सुमा संख्या 29 ( के बाई) से कुमो संख्या 57 ( के एफ सी ) तक भार वहा स जाजा एस II तक 

पाइप लाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : गांधीनगर तालुका : गांधीनगर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


कर 


मार 


पी पार 


भोयाम राबोर 


3/ 1 


3/ 2 
गांव पंचायत कार्ट 
248 
247 
गाव पंचायत 
251 . . . . 0 
235 . 
गांव पंचायत कार्ट ट्रेक, ० 
243 


०००००००००० 


242 


गांव पंचायत कार्ट ट्रेक 
194 
195 


[ to 20 ( 3)/ 67 - आई० पी० सी० / सबर एग लजिस ] 


8 . 0 . 43 - whereas it appears to the Central Goverrumeat that it is necoenary 
in the pulle interest that for the transport of petrolour from 100 (KI ) to GGS 
At Wall No. 47 , In Quit State , Pipetints ohit d led by the Oil and Natural 
Gas Comission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipaliņos, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of Uror i the land dameribed in the schedulo 

hereto ; 


Sac. 94ti ] TERBAREVIE OF INDIA , JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1) of the 
section sot the Petroleum Plpelines ( Acquisition of Right ot User in lend ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying o fthe pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road. Baroda- 9%8 


And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner , 

SCHEDULE 
For Laying Pipeline from Well No. 100 (KIT ) 10 GGS at Woll No. 57 
State : Gujarat Distt : Gandhinager Taluka : Gandhinagar 


Village 


Survay Na . 


Hactaro 


Aa 


P. AIS 


BHOYAN 


394 


: 


. 


393 . 
V , P , Cait Tiąck . 
V . P. Land 
29011 
280 . 
287/ I 
V.P. Cart Tick : 
259 


००००००००००००००००००० 


086400606050bum 


254 


NNNN 


232 


237 


236 Paili 
24I 


V . P . Cart Trach 
195 . . 


[ No. 20 ( 3) / 70 -IAC- Lab. & Legis.] 
का० प्रा० 43 - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह प्रावश्यक 
है कि गुजरात राज्य मे - - - - ...-- - - - - कुप्रा संख्या 100 ( के प्राई आई ) से कुमा 
संख्या 57/ पर जी जी एम तक पै मोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
आयोग द्वारा विछाई ८r चाहिए । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनो को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्पाबद्ध 
अनुसूची में वनित भमि मे उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है : 

अतः, श्रम , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भमि में उपयोग के लिए अधिकार का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एद्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई क्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
आक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी 

_ तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग , निर्माण और देख भाल 
प्रभाग , भवरपुरा रोड , बरोदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 


54 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA , 12, 1892 ( Part It 


मौर ऐसा माक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कपन करेगा कि क्या वह यह 
चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


कुओ संख्या 100 ( के पाई पाई ) से कुप्रो संख्या 57 पर जी जी एस सक पाइपलाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य 

गुजरात जिला गांधीनगर तालुका गांधीनगर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


प्रार 


पी भार 


भोयान 


393 
394 
वी पी कार्ट ट्रैक 
वी पी लण्ड 
290 / 1 
289 
287/ 1 
280 
वी पी कार्ट ट्रेक 
259 


254 


255 


232 


237 


234 
236 पैकी 


241 


वी पी कार्ट देक 


195 


संख्या 20 ( 3) / 70 - श्रा ई० प्रो० सी0/ लेबर एण्ड वेजिस ] 


S . O . 44. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No . 109 (KIM ) 
to GGS - IV , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commisston; 

And whereas it appcars that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now. therefore. in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (1 ) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division, Makarpura Road. Baroda- 9%8 


Sec. 3 (i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


$ $ 


And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 

BCHEDUL . 
Laying Pipeline Will No . 109 (KIM ) to G .G . S - IV . 
State : Gujarat Taluka : Kalol 

District1 Mehsana 


Village 


Syivay Na. 


Hactele 


AIO 


P . Ata 


KALOL 


98 


04 


. 


. 


. 


. 


••••• 


. 


V . P Cart Tiada 
158 . . . . . 
V, P. Cart Trick 
133 . . . 
136 . 
152 
ISI 
148/ 1 
V . P . Cant T19c . 


. 


HOMHm 


148 


. 


247 


•••••••• 


T 


. 


२ 


NNNNNNNN 


246 . 
249 . 
245 / 3 . 
250 . 
292 / 13 
252 / 11 
242 / 12 
291 / I4Paiki . 
251 / IS 
251 / 29 
232/ 28 
251 / 26 
V . P . Cast Traat 
25134 
V , P , Cart Tich 
25337 


०००००००००००००००००००००००००००००००० 


15 


••••••••••••••• 


HANHH 


I4 


29138 


. 


. 


. 


351 / 40 


DHAMASANA 


•• 


[ No. 20(3)/ 70- IOC -Lab. & Legis.] 
का० प्रा० 44.-- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
यह प्रावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में - - - - 
कुमा सख्या 109 ( के आई ए ) से जी जी एस - - IV तक पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए 
पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को विछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 
एतद्पाबद्ध अनुसूची मे वणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करना आवश्यक है । 

प्रत , अब , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का अर्जन ) 
अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमे उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना 
भाशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया है । 


56 


THB GAZAWIF OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 1971/ PAUM 12, 10R PATE 


असते की सा भूमि में हिलपर कोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन विधामे 
के लिए पाक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, - - -- - 

- - - - - सेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
भायोग, निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग, भवरपुरा रोग, परीवा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख 
से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा पाक्षेप करन वाला हर व्यक्ति विमिटिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह 
यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनमाई व्यषितशः हो या किसी विधी व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


कुओ संख्या ( के भाई एम ) 109 से जी जी एस - IV तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने हेतु 
गुजरात तालूका कलोल : जिला : मेहसासा 


राज्य : 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


पार 


पी पार 


कलोल 


98 


बी पी का ट्रक 
158 
बी पी कार्ट ट्रैक 


135 
136 


७ 


152 
151 
148/ 1 
148 
वीपी कार्ट ट्रैक 
247 
246 
249 
245 / 3 
250 
252/ 13 
252 / 11 
252 / 12 
251 / 14पंकी 
252 / 12 
251/ 15 
251/ 29 
251/ 28 
251 / 26 
वीपी कार्ट ट्रैक 


N 


। 


ज - 


Suc . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 


57 


A - WA 


- 


- 


मांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हेक्टर 


मार 


पी पार 


03 


251 / 34 
वीपी कार्ट ट्रैक 
251/ 37 
251/ 38 


89 


251 / 40 


46 


समासना 


21 


898 
898 


04 


(HRT 20 ( 3) /70- 


o go to lato gut geto ] 


8 . Q . 45 . Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from 44 (KAE ) to Mini 
GGS at Well No. 57, in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oil and 
Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines , it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SCHEDULE 


For Laying Pipeline From Well No. 44 (KAE ) to Miniggsar Well No. 57 
Stales Gujarat Dist : Gandhinagar 

Taluka : Gandhinegar 


Villaga 


Syrvey No. 


ML 


Hactoro 


Ara 


P . Ara 


די 
- 
ורדרדרדרד 
--ד- 
רן 


1982 


. 


. 


. 


TITODA 
BHOYAN 


143 . 
142 
144 Parki 
136 . 
140 , 
133 
137 / I 
123 
124 . 
125 . 
I21 
120 
V .P . 
16о 
IGI 
166 
165 


000000OOOOOOOOOOOO 


moo 
Horvaso 
MONOOOO 


58 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2. 1971/ PAUSA 12 . 1892 [Par IL 

- - - - - --- 
Vill480 Survey No . 

Hectare Aa P. AC . 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - 


. 


. 


167 . . 
168 . 
V . P . Gait Trach 
ITI 
172 
170 
188 
190 . . 
196 . . 


OOOOOOOOO 


. 


[ No. 20(3)/ 70- IOC -Lab. & Legis.] 
का मा० सं० 45. --यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
यह आवश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में -- - - 

m - कुंपा संख्या 44 
के0 एई0 से कुमा संख्या 57 पर मीमी जी जी एस तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए 
पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस पायोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए 
एतद्पायर अनुसूची में वर्णित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अर्जित करना मावश्यक है ; 

प्रतः, अब , पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रर्जन ) अधिनियम, 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा (1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते 
हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना भाशय एतद्वारा 
घोषित किया है । 

बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितमद्ध कोई व्यतित , उस भमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने 
के लिए प्राक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, - - - 

तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
आयोग , निर्माण और देख - भाल प्रभाग , भदरपुरा रोड, बरोया - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की 
तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीमर कर सकेगा । 

और, ऐसा आक्षेष करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्टः यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह 
यह चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


अनुसूची 


कुआं संख्या 44 ( के एई ) से कुत्रां संख्या 57 पर मिनी जी जी एस तक पाइपलाइन 
बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : 

गांधीनगर तालका : गांधीनगर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हैक्टर 


आर 


पी पार 


1082 


in 


टिटोडा 
भोयान 


to 


143 
142 
144 पेकी 


co 


SAC, 3(1 ) ] THB GAZETTE , OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA , 12, 1892 


50 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हेक्टर 


पार 


पो मार 


138 


140 
138 
1371 
123 
124 
125 
121 
120 
वी पी कार्ट ट्रैक 


160 
161 


166 
165 
167 
168 
वीपी कार्ट ट्रैक 
171 / 1 
172 
170 
188 
190 
196 


[ TO 20 ( 3)/ 70– 4780 to todaat qoz afore ] 


S .O . 46 . — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals and Mines and Metals (Department of 
Petroleum ) s . O , No. 2567 , dated 16th July 1970 , under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 1962 (50 
of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared its intention to acquire the Right of 
User in the lands specified in the schedule appended to that notification for the 
purpose of laying pipelines ; 


And whereas, the competent authority has, under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 
of the said Act , submitted report to the Government; 


And, further , whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said 
report, decided to acquire the Right of user in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to this notification ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
Section 6 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines ; 


So 


THE GARETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 


2 [Par H 


And , further, in exercise of the power conferred by mub - dation (1 ) of that 
dection , the Central Government directs that the right of user in the said lands 
sball instead of vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas Commission free from 
all encumbrances . 


SCHEDULE 
Por Pipeline from Sanand Well No, 13 to Sanaand Well No. 15. 
Stato : Gujarat District : Mehsana 

Taluka: Kalol 


Syivay No . 
- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -- 


Villon 
- - - - - 
KHATRAJ 


Hactata Ata P . AG 
- - - - - - - -- -- - - - - - - 


- 


। 


- - - 


345 
343 


. 
. 


. 


•• 


• 
. 


JETHALAJ 


• 


245 / 1 
245/ 2 
247 . . 
248 . 
252 / I 
252/ 2 
V . P . Cast taack 
272 . 


273 


270 . 
277. 
2762 
278 
281/ 2 . 
281 } I . 
V . P . Cart trach 
323 
322 
344 . 
345 
319 
347 
348 
317 . 
352 / 2 . 


••••••••••••••••••••• 


०००००००००००००००००००००००००००००००००० 


wwOWAWoWDAARODOWHOANHNBANww 


353 / 2 


353/ 1 . 
V . P . Cast track 
355, 
372 / I 
372 / 2 
373 / 4 . 


•••••••••• 


400 


92 


[ No . 20 (3)/ 70- IOC - Lab. & Legis .] 
का० प्रा० स० 46.- -यतः पेट्रोलियम, पाइपलाइन ( भूमि के उपयोग के अधिकार 
का अर्जन ) अधिनियम , 1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
भारत सरकार के पैट्रोलियम तथा रसायन और खान तथा धातु मंत्रालय ( पैट्रोलियम विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना का 0 श्रा0 स0 2567 तारीख 16 - 7 - 70 द्वारा केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस 
अधिसूचना से संलग्न अन सूची में विनिर्दिष्ट भूमियों के उपयोग के अधिकार को पाइप लाइनों 
को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए अजित करने का अपना प्राशय घोषित कर दिया था । 


और यतः सक्षम प्राधिकारी ने उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) के अधीन 
सरकार को रिपोर्ट देवी है । 


Suc . 3 ( * ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


61 


और प्रागे , यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उस रिपोर्ट पर विचार करने के पश्चात् इस 
अधिसूचना से संलग्न अनुमूची में विनिदिष्ट भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का 
विनिश्चय किया है । 

प्रब, अतः उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 6 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्ति का 
प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा घोषित करती है कि इस अधिसूचना से संलग्न 
अनुसूची में विनिविष्ट उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार पाइप लाइन , बिछाने के प्रयोजन 
के लिए एतद्द्वारा अर्जित किया जाता है । 

और, मागे उस धारा की उपधारा ( 4) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
य सरकार निदेश देती है कि उक्त भूमियों में उपयोग का अधिकार केन्द्रीय सरकार में विहित 
होने के बजाय तेस और प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग में , सभी बंधको से मुक्त रूप में , इस घोषणा के 
प्रकाशन की इस तारीख को निहित होगा । 


अनुसूची 
सानन्द कुमो संख्या 18 से सानन्द कुमा संख्या 15 तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात जिला : मेहसाना तालुका : कलोल 


मोव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


पीपार 


खटराज 


72 


जेठसाज 


345 
343 
243/ 1 
245/ 2 
247 
248 
252/ 1 
252/ 
वी . पी . कार्टट्रेक 


272 


273 
270 
211 
276/ 2 
278 
281 / 2 
281 / 1 
बी . पी . कार्टक 


323 


322 
344 


- 


- 


62 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 [PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हकठर 


पार 


पी भार 


पेठलाज -जारी 


345 
319 
347 
348 
317 
352/ 2 
353/2 
353/ 1 
वी०पी० कार्ट ट्रैक 
355 
372 / 1 
372 / 2 
373 / 4 


[Fio 20( 3)/67– 4760/ 990 /titolatare gov efore ] 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 
6 . 0 . 47. Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. 146 (KJK ) 
to Well No . 130 (KHV ) to GGS- V , in Kalol Oil field in Gujarat State , Pipelines 
should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears thate for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powerg conferred by sub - section ( 1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act, 
1692 (50 of 1982) , the Central Government hereby declares Its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda -9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 

SCHEDULE 
For laying Pipeline from Well No. 146 (KJK ) to Well No. 130 (KHV ) to G .G . S - V 
Statc ,: Gujarat District : Mehgapa 

Taluku : Kalol 


Vill486 


Block No. 


Hectado 


Aro 


P. Are 


CHHATRAL 


149 

p Cart track . 
V 


P . Ch 


Igo 


iss : 


: 


: 


: 


QOQ 


SEC. 3( ti )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


63 


Villa , a 


Block Na , 


Hoctato 


Ara 


P. Ata 


Chhatral -contd. 


156 ,Pajki 
156/ Paiki 
169 
170 . 
172 
211 
173 
210 / Paiki 
210 Pajki 
209 / Paiki 


०००००००००००००० 


OHNUSANNACOHO 


OOONNOOOWUN 4HHHHHow 


187 


188 


186 


5a 


120 


90 


[ No. 20 (3 ) / 70 - IOC- Lab. & Legis. ] 


नई दिल्ली , 15 दिसम्बर, 1970 


का० प्रा० 47. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
मावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कलोल सेल क्षेत्र में कुप्रा संख्या 146 ( के जे के ) से कुप्रा संख्या 130 
( के० एच० बी० ) और वहा से जी० जी० एस० - 5 तक पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन 
सेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी चाहिए । 

मौर यत : यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतदुपाबन्ध 
मनसूची में धणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना प्रावश्यक है : 


अत : अब , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का प्रजिन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतद्द्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
मक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी, तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस भायोग ,निर्माण और देखभाल प्रभाग , मकरपुरा 
रोड , बरौदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा माक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिदिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह चाहता 
है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्ति : हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 

अनुसूची 
कुप्रा संख्या 146 के० जे० के० से कुमओ संख्या 130 के एप० बी० तक मीर यहां से जी० 

जी० एस० 5 तक पाइपलाइन बिछाना । 
राज्य : गजरात जिला : मेहसाना 

तालुका : कलोल 


गांव 


खण्ड संख्या 


हेक्टर 


प्रार 


पीमार 


छत्तराल 


149 
बी० पी० कार्ट टक 


83 
83 


64 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2. 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART II 


गांव 


खण्ड संख्या 


हेक्टर 


पार 


पीमार 


WITTTT - TT 


150 
153 
156 /947 
156 /927 
169 


170 


172 


211 
173 
210 /077 
210 /9477 


209 / 


182 
188 
186 
190 


90 


[BT 90 ( 3 ) / 709O gto foto 


# 1 


80, 48, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Welt No . KCK ( 101 ) 
to GGS- V , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the Oll and Natural Gas 
Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines , it 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the power conterrad by sub - action ( 1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right ot User in led) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government hereby declare . Ito intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person Interested in the said land may , within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , objeot to the laying of the pipelined under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Oll and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda- 2 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state speciAcally 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by i lagal practitioner . 

ACHEDUT 
Por laying Pipeline from Well No. KGK ( 101 ) to G .G . S.- V 
State Gujarat District: Mehsana 

Taluka : Kaloi 


Villano 


Survey No, 


Hectare 


Ara 


P , Aro 


no 


Chnatni 


287 . . . 
286 
VP: Cart: Trict 


. 
: 


Hugot 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 18929 65 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


Village 


Survey No . 


Hectarc 

- - - - - 


Are P . Are 
- - - - - 


- 


Chhatral 


• 


••• 


288 
251 Paiki 
250 . 
249 / I 
V . P. Cat TRER 
223 
222 
402 


angHOCOUCOA1 


• 


•• 


4011 


••• 


402 


400 


•••••••••. 


• 


4II 


410 


•• 


••••••••••••••........। 


०००००००००००००००००००००००० 


409 


408 


•• 


ovaaaw 


•• 


453 Paiki 
43412 . 
435 . 
436 . 


• 


•••• 


• 


331P 


•• 


••• 


• 


437 
425 
452 
683 


" 


207OENA 


• 


Isand 


. 


682 


___ [ No . 20 ( 3 ) / 67 -IAC - Lab. & Legls. ] 
का० प्रा० सं० 48.-- - यस : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोक हित में यह 
माश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कुमां संख्या के सीके ( 101 ) से जी० जी० एस० V तक पेट्रोलियम 
के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस मायोग द्वारा पिछाई आनीचाहिए । 

और यत : यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइमों को मिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतत्पाबत मनसची 
में वणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना आवश्यक है : 

प्रत : अब, पट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार का मर्जन ) अधिनियम 
1962 ( 1962 का 50) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


___ बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि हितबद्धकोई व्यक्ति, उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए प्राक्षेप 
सक्षम प्राधिकारी सेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस पायोग , निर्माण और देखभाल -प्रभाग , मकरपुरा 
रोड , बरौदा - 9 को इस अधिसूच 7 की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा माक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता 
है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्य व शः हो या किसी बिधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 

अनुसूची 
कुा संख्या के सी० के० ( 101 ) से जी० जी० एस० V तक पाइप लाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गजरात जिला : मेहसाना 

तालका : कलोल 
गांव 

सर्वेक्षण संख्या हक्टर पार० पी०मार० 


छत्तराल 


287 
286 


809 


12 


X 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II ~ 


गांप 


सर्वेक्षण सज्या 


ATCO 


fooru 


बी०पी०कार्ट ट्रैक 
288 
251 out 


250 


वी०पी० कार्ट ट्रेक 
223 
222 
402 
401 / 1 
400 
411 
410 
409 
408 
ont 433 
434 / 2 
435 
436 
531 
437 
425 
452 
68 3 
68 2 


07 


[***4 20 ( 3) /70-416 . sto fogaro que gro ] 


8 . 0 , 49 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from KJS (K140 ) to 
Mini GGS At (K57) , in Gujarat State . Pipelines should be laid by the oil and 
Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines , it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of Uber in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of Uger in land ) Act , 
1982 ( 50 of 1982) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein : 

Provided that any person Interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , Qil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


SEC . 3 ( i ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 


67 


- 


- 


- 


- 


SCHEDULE 


For laying Pipeline from Well No. KJS ( K - 140 ) to Mini G .G . S . at ( K - 87) 
State : Gujarat District : Gandhinagar 

Taluka : Gandhinagar 


- 


- 


Village 


Survey No, 


Hectarc 


Are 


P, Are 


IIIO . 


TITODA 
BHOYAK 


1109 & 


A1 


Cart 


, 


०००००००००००००००००००००००। 


89 


191 


V.P. Cart Tiack 
190 . . . 


. 


196 


. 


. 


[ No. 20 ( 3) / 70 -IAC -LAb. & Legis .] 


फा० मा० सं० 49. - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में यह 
पावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में कुर्मा संख्या के० जे० एस० (के 140 ) से कुमा संख्या 57 
पर मिनी जी० जी० एस० सक पेट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस 
पायोग द्वारा निछाई जानी चाहिए । 


मोर यत : यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रपोजम कि लिए एसदपावर 
अनुसूची में परिणत भमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना मावश्यक है : 

प्रतः, प्रय , पेट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का पर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए। 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का सपना प्राश्य एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हिसववध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
माक्षेप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गस प्रायोग , निर्माण और देखभाल- प्रभाग , 
मकरपुरा रोड बरोदा-9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 


और ऐसा माक्षेप करने वालाहर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट यह भी कषन करेगा कि क्या वह यह चाहता 
है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


68 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART 11 


- 


- 


अनुसूची 
कुमां संख्या के० जे० एस० के० ( के . 140) से के० 57 पर मिनी जी० जी० एस० नक 

पाइपलाइन बिछाने हेतु । 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : गांधीनगर 

तालुकाः गांधीनगर 
गोव 

सर्वेक्षण संख्या हक्टर मार०पी०मार . 


टिटोग 


1110 
1109 सपा 1108 
61 


30 


मोयान 


82 


68 


48 
वी०पी० कार्ट ट्रेक 


78 


00 


92 


89 


93 


13 


84 


28 


9011 


89 


85 


वी पी का ट्रेफ 

191 
190 


15 


68 


196 


[ संख्या 20 ( 3 ) / 70 - माई० मो० सी० / लेबर एण्ड लेजिसा 
8 , 0 , 50. - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from KJH (K137) TO 
Mini GGS At K57 , in Gujarat State , Pipelines should be laid by the all and 
Natural Gas Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (i ) of the 
section 8 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act , 
1962 ( 50 of 1982 ) , the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of uger therein . 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may, within 21 days from 
the date of this notification , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , pul and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road , Baroda - 9%3B 


SCHADULI 


For laying pipine pom Will No. KFH ( K 137To Mini G . G. S. A.TK57 
State Gujarat 

D st : Gandhinagar Taluka : Gandhinagar 


Villgc 


Survey No . 


Hecture 


ATCP . Ale 


BHOYAN 


Io 


Cart Track 
Ι9Ι 


०००००००००। 


192 


74 


10 


32 


[ No. 20 ( 3)/ 70-IOC- Lab. & Legia.] 
का० प्रा० 50 - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित में 
वह यह मावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में के० जे० च० (के - 137) कुमा -संख्या से के - 57 पर मिली 
जी जी एस तक ट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तया प्राकृतिक गैस प्रायोग द्वारा पिछाई 
जानी चाहिए । 

मौर यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्वारायब 
मनुसूची में दणित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना पावश्यक है । 

प्रतः, अब पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि ) मउपयोग के अधिकार का पर्जन ) अधिनियम , 
1962 ( 1962 का 50 ) की धारा 3 को उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार ने उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का प्रपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया है । 

बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाईपलाइन बिछाने के 
लिए प्राक्षप सक्षम प्राधिकारी , ते तथा प्राकृतिक गस प्रायोग , निर्माण मोर देखभाल सेल 
प्रभाग , भमकरपुरा रोड,बरोदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसापाक्षेप करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्टः यह भी कयन करेगा कि क्या यह चाहता 
है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 


दूमा संख्या के जे एवं (के - 137 ) से के - 57 पर मिनी जी जी एस तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने हेत 
राज्य:-- गुजरात 

जिला: - गांधी नगर तालुका :- गांधीनगर 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या हैक्टर 


पार 


पी पार 


भोयान 


10 


70 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 (PART II — 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या हक्टर 


पार 


पी पार 


88 


12 


69 


61 


कार्ट ट्रैक 
191 
192 


76 


194 


10 
32 


196 


[ * 84T 20 ( 3)170 - ft oftere , qux et roter I 


8 . 0 . 61.-. -Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is necessary 
in the public interest that for the transport of petroleum from Well No. KHK , 
K105 To GGS - V in Gujarat State, Pipelines should be laid by the Oll and Natural 
Gag Commission ; 

And whereas it appears that for the purpose of laying such Pipelines, it is 
necessary to acquire the Right of User in the land described in the Schedule 
annexed hereto ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of the 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of User in land ) Act 
1962 (50 of 1962 ), the Central Government hereby declares its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein ; 

Provided that any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from 
the date of this notincation , object to the laying o Ithe pipelines under the land 
to the Competent Authority , oil and Natural Gas Commission , Construction and 
Maintenance Division , Makarpura Road, Baroda - 9 ; 

And every person making such an objection shall also state specifically 
whether he wishes to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner. 

SCHADULE 


For laying Pipelino From Woll No KHK 105 TO G . G . S . V 
State : Gujarat Dist Mehsapa Taluka : Kalol 


Villaga 


Suzvay No. 


Hocteto 


Are 


P . A10 


ISAND 


65711 - 


030 / 1 , 
037 /2 . 
648 , 
647 
666 
66414 . 
86412 
59711 
674 / 1 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


OMOGANONOONomt 


072 


676 
681 
682 


TH 


[ No. 20 (3) /70 - IOC -Lab . & Legia ) 
M . V . S. PRASADA RAU , Under Secy . 


SEC . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


71 


का० प्रा० 51 -- प्राः केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह प्रतीत होता है कि लोकहित 
में यह प्रावश्यक है कि गुजरात राज्य में ,. . . . . . . .कुमा संख्या के एच , के 105 से जी जी एस V 
तक पैट्रोलियम के परिवहन के लिए पाइपलाइन तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस आयोग द्वारा बिछाई जानी 
चाहिए । 

और यतः यह प्रतीत होता है कि ऐसी लाइनों को बिछाने के प्रयोजन के लिए एतद्पावन 
अनुसूची में वजित भूमि में उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करना प्रावश्यक है : 

प्रतः, अब पैट्रोलियम पाइपलाइन ( भूमि में उपयोग के अधिकार का पर्जन ) अधिनियम 
1962 (1962 का 50) की धारा 3 की उमधारा ( 1) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए 
केन्द्रीय सरकार में उसमें उपयोग का अधिकार अजित करने का अपना प्राशय एतदद्वारा घोषित किया 


बशर्ते कि उक्त भूमि में हितबद्ध कोई व्यक्ति , उस भूमि के नीचे पाइपलाइन बिछाने के लिए 
माक्षेप सजम प्राधिकारी, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . तेल तथा प्राकृतिक गैस. पायोग , निर्माण.. 

और देखभाल प्रभाग, मकरपुरा रोड, बरौदा - 9 को इस अधिसूचना की तारीख से 21 दिनों के भीतर 
कर सकेगा । 

और ऐसा पार करने वाला हर व्यक्ति विनिर्दिष्ट : यह भी कथन करेगा कि क्या वह यह 
चाहता है कि उसकी सुनवाई व्यक्तिशः हो या किसी विधि व्यवसायी की मार्फत । 

अनुसूबो 
कुंपा संख्या के एच के , के 105 से जी जी एस V तक पाइपलाइन बिछाने हेतु 
राज्य : गुजरात 

जिला : मेहसाना तालुका : कलोल 


- - - - 


-- 


- - 


गांव 


सर्वेक्षण संख्या 


हेक्टर 


पार 


पी मार 


650/ 1 

657/ 2 
657 / 1 


76 


648 


647 

666 
664 / 4 
664/ 2 
667/ 1 
674/ 1 

672 
676 
681 
682 


[ संख्या 20 ( 3) / 70 - आई/ पो सी /लेबर , एण्ड लेगस ] 

म . वे० शिवप्रसाद राव, अवर सचिव , । 


HLV 


F .I . DU : TRIAL DE . E OPME . TAD INTERNAL TRADE 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

New Delhi, 45k December . 1970 


so . 52 - la pursuance of sub - fi 4 ( 1) of rute ( I ) ofthe Indian Standar is lastitution (Certification Marks ) Rules , 1555 the Indian Standards 
Istitution hereby notifies that the Staud 1 Mart ( 3) , deziga (s) of wiich together with the perbal deszciption of the desigars) and the title (s ) of the relevent 
Indian Standard (s ) are given in theS ou ES Kratonersd , bave been specified . 

T191915 11111Mics (3) fo : th : p . pse of tbe (adiga Standards (astitution (Cortificatioa Moks ) Act , 1952 and the Rules and Regutations fromed there 
ualec, shullconiatoconcepithe fact loopt he dates shown against each . 

THE SCHEDULE 


S . N ). Dig 1 of the Salar1 

Mik 


Pro 


use /Class of 

prodost 


No. and Title of the Rstevant 

Indian Standard 


Verbal description of the Design of the 

Standard Mark 


Date of effect 


(3 ) 


6 ) 


PS4 


Galvanized stay 

Strand . 


Beer 


IS : 2141-1968 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 October 
palvanized stay strand 

In titution , consisting of letters ISI , 1970 
first recision ). 

drawn in the exact style andtrelatie pro 
portions as indicated in col. ( 2 ), the 
number designation of the Indian Standard 
being supers cribed on the top side of the 

monogramas indicated in the design . 
IS : 3865 - 1966 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 October 
beer. 

Institution , consisting of letters ISI , 1970 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro 
portions as indicated in col. (2 ), the 
numba designatian ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the top side of the 

monogram as indicated in the design . 
IS : 4985 - 1968 Specification for The monogram of the Indian Standards I November 

inplasticized PVC pipes for Institution , consisting of letters ISI , 1970 . 
potable water supplies . 

drawn in the cract style and relative PTO 
portio 13 a310ficted in col . ( 2 ), the num 

bet designation of the ladia Standard 
being superscribed on the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in the design . 

[No. CND /13 : 9 ] 


Unplasticized PVC 

pipes for potable 
water supplies. 


- रामा 


प्राधागक विकास मार मातारक व्यापार मत्रालय 

( प्रौद्योगिक विकास विभाग ) 

भारतीय मानक संस्था 

नई दिल्ली , 4 दिसम्बर, 1970 
एस . प्रो . 52. - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) नियम , 1955, के नियम 4 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से सूचना 
दी जाती है कि मानक चिह्न जिनकी डिजाइन और शाब्दिक विवरम तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानकों के शीर्षक सहित नीचे अनुसूची में दिए 
संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिह्न ) अधिनियम 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित ये मानक -चिह्न उनकी आगे दी विषियों 
से लागू हो जायेंगे । 

अनुसूची 


उत्पाद / उत्पादन का वर्ग 


सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की 

पद संख्या और शीर्षक 


__ मानक चिह्न की डिजाइन का शाब्दिक 

विवरण 


लागू होने की तिथि 


क्रमांक मानक चिह्न की 

डिजाइन 
(1) (2) 


(3) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


जस्ता चढ़े लड़दार टेक तार 


16 अक्टवर 1970 


IS2141 - 1968 जस्ता चढ़े भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 

लड़दार टेकतारों की विशिष्टि जिसमें ISIशब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) में दिखाई चली और अनुपात में 

तैयार किया गया है, मोर जैसा 
दिखाया है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर 
की ओर भारतीय मानक की पद 
संख्या दी हुई है । 


74 


( 1) 


( 2) 


(३) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


IS13865 - 1966 बियर की भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 16 अक्टूबर 1970 
विशिष्टि 

जिसमें शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में 
दिखाई शैली और अनुपात में तैयार 
किया गया है, और जैसा दिखाया 
है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर की ओर 
भारतीय मानक की पदसंख्या दी 


। 


- 


- 


1 नवम्बर 1970 


-- 


बर्तनों में पानी भरने के IS : 4985- 1968 वर्तनों में 

अनम्यकृत पी वी सी के पानी भरने के अनम्यकृत 
पाइप 

पी वी सी के पाइपों की 
विशिष्टिय 


- 


- 


- 


भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 
जिसमें शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में 
दिखाई शैली और अनुपात में तैयार 
किया मया है, और जैसा दिखाया है 
उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर की ओर 
भारतीय मानक की पद- संख्या दी 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII-- 


- 


[ सं० सी एम डी / 13 : 9] 


S . Q . 531 - In pursu90.ce of sub -re (1 ) of rude 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Masks) Rules , 1955 the Indian Standards Institution 
hereby notifica that the Standard Marks), design (s ) of which together with the verbal description of the design (s) and the title (s) of the relevant Indian 
Standard ( s) are given in the Schedule hereto muncred , have been specified . 


These Standard Mart (s) for the purpose ofthe Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Act , 1952 and the Rules and Regulations fremod there 
under, shall come into force with cifect from the dietos shown against each 

THE SCHEDULE 


La 


S . No. Design of the Standard 

Mack 


Product /Class of 

Product 


No. and Title of the Relevant Vertal description of the Design of tbe 
Indian Standard 

Standard Mart 


Date of effect 


( 3 ) 


IS : 


120 


Timber panelled and 

glazed shutters . 


IS : 1003 (Part 1 - 1966 Spec - 

fication for timber panelled 
and glazed shutters first 
Tevision ). 
Part I Door shutters. 


SRC.3(ü))THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


IS : 


Timber door , wiado 

and rentilator 
frames. 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 Nov 1970 

Institution , consisting of letters " ISI , 
drawn in the enact style and relative 
proportions as indicated in Col. (2 ), the 
number designation ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the top side and the 

Part No. of the specification subscribed 
under the bottom side of the monogram as 

indicated in the design . 
The monogram of the Indian Standards 16 Nov 1970 

Institution , consisting of letters " ISI , 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro 
portions as indicated in Col . (2 ), the 
Dumber designation ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the top side of the 

monogram as indicated in the design . 
The monogram of the Indian Standards I Nov 1970 

Institution , consisting of letters IST , 
drawn in the exact style and relative pro 
portions as inuicated jo Col. (2 ), the 
number designation ofthe Indian Standard 
being superscribed on the top side of the 
monogram as indicated in the design , 


IS : 4021 - 1967 Specification 

for timber door , windor and 
vertilator frames 


3. 


IS : 


IS : 


S11 


Pinc oit 


. 


IS : 5757 - 1970 Specification for 

pine oil. 


Rahmen 


{No. CMD 13 : 9 .1 


75 


ISCCU 


एस० प्रो० 53 - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमानन चिह ) नियम , 1955 के नियम 4 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था 
की ओर से सूचना दी जाती है कि मानक चिह्व जिनकी डिजाइन और शाब्दिक विवरण तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानकों के शीर्षक सहित नीचे अनुसूची में 
दिए हैं । भा० मा० संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था (प्रमाणन चिह्न) अधिनियम , 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित्त ये मानक-चिह्न उनके भागे दी तारीख 
से लागू हो जायगे । 

अनुसूची 
क्रमांक मानक चिह्न की उत्पाद/ उत्पादन का वर्ग सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की मान चिह्न की डिजाइन का शाब्दिक लागू होने की तिथि 
डिजाइन 

पद संख्या और शीर्षक 

विवरण 
( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) 

( 5 ) 

( 6 ) 
लकड़ी के पैनेल लगे और IS : 1003 ( भाग 1 ) - 1966 भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 16 नवम्बर 1970 
कांच लमे किवाड 

लकड़ी के पैनेल लगे और कांच जिसमें ISI सब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ 
लमे किवाड़ों की विश्विष्टि ( 2) में दिखाई मैली और अनुपात 
( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) भाग 1 में तैयार किया गया है और जैसा 
दरवाजों के किवाड़ 

दिखाया है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर 
की अोर भारतीय मानक की 

पदसंख्या दी हुई है । 
दरवाजो खिड़कियों भोर IS : 4021 - 1967 दरवाजों , भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 16 नवम्बर 1970 

रोशनदानों के लकड़ी के खिडकियों और रोशनदामों के जिसमें ISI शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ 
चौखटे लकड़ी के चौचटों की विशिष्टि ( 2 ) में दिखाई शैली और अनुपात 

में तैयार किया मया है और जैसा 
दिखाया है उस मोनोग्राम के अपर 
की भोर भारतीय मानक की पद 
संख्या दी हुई है । 


- 


- 


चीड़ क , तेल 


1 नवम्बर 1970 


IS : 5757 -1970 चीड़ के तेल भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम 
की विशिष्टि 

जिसमें ISI सब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ 
( 2 ) में दिखाई जैसी मोर अनुपात 
में तैयार किया गया है और जैसा 
दिखाया है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर 
की मोर भारतीय मानक की पद 
संख्या दी हुई है । 


[ सं० सी एम डी / 13 : ] 


SEC.3(i)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,189277 


- 


-- 


78 


Šosi. In partial modification of the Ministry of Industrial Development and Internal Trade (Indian Standards Institution ) Notification | 
No. S . O . 2925 dated 20th August 1970 published in the Gazette of India , Pat II , Section 3 , Sub - section ( ii) , dated 5th September 1970 , the Indian Stan 
dards Institution hereby notifies that the Standard Mark for sole leather has been revised . The revised design of the Standard Mark together with title 
of the relevant Indian Standard nd verbal description of design is given in the following schedule . 

This Standard Mack for the purpose of the Indian Standards Jostitution ( Catification (Marts) Act, 1952 and the Rule and Regulations framed 
there - under , shall come into force with immediate effect : 

THE SCHEDULE 


Serial 
No. 


Design of the 
Standard Mark 


Product /Glæs ofProduct 


No. and Title of the 
Relevant Indian Standard 


Verbal description of the design of the Standard Mark 


(2) 


(5 ) 


(1) 

* 


(4) 
Sie Specification for 


IS 


Sole leather . 


Sole leathert. 


IS : 979 - 1962 Specification 

sole leather (revised 


for 


ELETREE 


The monogram of the Indian Standards Institutior , 

consisting of letters ISI , drawn in the exact style and 
relative proportions as indicated in Col( 2 ), the number 
designation of the Indian Standard being superscribed 
on the top side and the words SOLE LEATHER 
being subscribed under the bottom side of the mono 
gram as indicated in the design . 


SOLE LEATHER . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PartII 


[No. CMD / 13 : 9 ) 


- 


- 


एस . मो० 54 -- भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाषन चिह्न) नियम 1955, के नियम 4 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था 
की ओर से सूचना दी जाती है कि मानक चिह जिनकी डिजाइन और शाब्दिक विवरण तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानकों के शीर्षक सहित नीचे अनुसूची में 
दिये हैं , भा० मा० संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किये गये हैं । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) अधिनियम, 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित्त ये मानक चिह्न तुरंत ही लागू हो 
जायेगा । 

अनुसूची 


क्रम संख्या मानक चिह्न की 

डिजाइन 


उत्पाद / उत्पादन का वर्ष 


सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की 
पदसंख्या और शीर्षक 


मानक चिह्न की डिजाइन का शाब्दिक विवरम 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


Sec.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,189270 


15520 


तल्ले का चमड़ा 


5 तल्ले का चमहा 


soLTUATAR 


IS : 579- 1962 तल्ले के चमड़े भारतीय मानक संस्था की मोनोग्राम जिसमें ISI शब्द होते हैं 
की विशिष्टि ( पुनरीक्षण ) स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में दिखाई लो और अनुपात में तैयार किया 

मया है, और जैसा दिखाया गया है उस मोनोग्राम के ऊपर की 
मोर भारतीय मानक की पदसंख्या और नीचे की ओर 
सोल लेदर ( तल्ले का चमड़ा ) शब्द दिये गये हैं । 


[ सं० सी० एम० डी० 13 : 9] 


80 


S . O . 55 - In pursuance of sub -regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Maks) Regulatiers. 1955 . tbe 
Indian Standards Institution bereby Dotifestbatibe rak rgfce (s ) per unit for various products , 

details ofwhich 
are given in the Schedule bereto annexed , have been determired ard the fee ( 8 ) shall come into force with effect from the dates shown zainst ach : 


TAB SEDULE 


erial 


Unit 


Product/Class ofPro 

ducts 


No. and Title of Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Macking Fee per Unit 


Date of effect 


o . 


(3) 


One mteric tonne. 


Rs. 1 : 50 


16 October , 1970 . 


I . Galvanized stay strand . IS : 2141- 1968 Specifica - 

tion for galvanized stay 

strand first rerisia) . 
2 . Beer . 

IS : 3885 - 1966 Specifica 

tion for beer. 


1000 litres 


16 October, 1970 


( i ) Re. 1 . 00 per unit for the first 1000 units , 
( ii) Re. o . 50 perwit for the next 10, 000 

units and 
iii ) Re. 0 - 30 per imit for the 1100 Ist unit 

and above . 
One paisa . 


3 . Uoplasticized PVC pipes 

for potable water supplies. 


I November , 1970 


IS : 4958 - 1958 Specification One metre . 

for unplasticized pipes for 
potable water supplies . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII 


(No.CMD /13 : 10 .] 


2.1971/PAUSA12,1892[Park 


मानक संस्था की ओर से सूचित किया जाता हैकि 


एस . मो . 55. - - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम , 1955, के विनियम 7 के उपविनियम ( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय 
मानक संस्था की ओर से सूचित किया जाता है कि विभिन्न वस्तुओं की प्रति इकाई महरांकन फोम , जिसके व्यौरे नोचे अनसूची में दिये हैं , निर्धारित 
की गई है और यह फीस उनके आगे दी हुई तिथियों से लागू हो जायेगी । 

अनुसूची 


प्रति इकाई महर लगाने की फीस 


लाग होने की तारीख 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


क्रमांक उत्पाद उत्पाद का वर्ग सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक संख्या इकाई 

और शीर्ष 
(1) (2) 

(3) 
1. जस्ता चढ़े लड़दार टेकतार IS : 214 1 - 1968 जस्ता चढ़े एक मोटरी टन 

लड़दार टेकतारों की विशिष्टि 

( पहला पुनरीक्षण ) . 
2. बियर 

IS : 3865 -- 1966 बियर की 1000 लोटर 
विशिष्टि 


रु० 1 . 50 


16 अक्टूबर , 1970 


16 अक्टूबर, 1970 


( 1 ) रु . 1 . 00 प्रति इकाई 

पहली 1000 इकाइयों तक 
( 2 ) रु० 0 . 50 प्रति इकाई 
___ अगलो 10000 इकाइयों के लिए 
( 3 ) रु० 0 . 30 प्रति इकाई 

11001वीं और आगे की इकाइयों 

के लिए । 
एक पैसा 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,189281 


1 मीटर 


1 नवम्बर, 1970 


3. बर्तनों में पानी भरने के IS : 4985 - 1968 बतनों में 

अनम्यकृत पी वी सी के पानी भरने के अनम्यकृत 
पाइप 

पी वी सी के पाइपों की 
विशिष्टि 


सिं० सी० एम० डो० 13 : 10] 


5 . 0 . 56. In pursuance of sab - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indiain Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 . 
he Indian Standards lastitution beteby notifies that themarking fees per unittor various products , details of which are given in the Schedule hate to 

nosed hve been determined and the fea (s ) shall comcinto force with effect from the dates shown against each : 


THE SCHLDULE 


Serial 
No. 


Product Class of Products 


No. and Title of Relevant Indian 

Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per 

Unit 


Date of eftact 


Toy 


(2) 


(3 ) 


10 Paise 


16 No7, 1970 


I Timbol panelled and glazed shutter Is : 1093 (Part- 1) - 1966 specificaton for One square metre 

timber panelled and glazed shutters 

first resistan ) 

Part I Dooz shuttors 
2 Timber door, window and Ventilator IS : 4021- 1967 Specification for One squabe metre 
umes 

timboi door , window and Pentilator 

frames. 
3 Pine oil . . . . . IS 15757 -1970 Specification for pinc Opelitre 

Oil 


10 paise 


16 Nov . 1970 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PartII 


I paise 


i Nov. 1970 


[No. CMD 13: 10 ] 


एस० मो० 56. - - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम , 1955 के विनियम 7 के उपविनियम ( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक || 
संस्था की ओर से सूचित किया जाता है कि विभिन्न वस्तुओं की मुहरांकन फीस जिनके व्यौरे नीचे अनुसूची में दिये हैं , निर्धारित की गई है और 
ये फोसे उनके प्रामे बताई तारीखों से लागू हो जायेंगी । 

अनु सूची 


क्रमांक 


उत्पाद / उत्पाद का वर्ग 


सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक पदसंख्या और शीर्षक 


इकाई 


प्रति इकाई मुहर लागू होने की तारीख 
लगाने की फोस 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


( 3 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


10 पैसे 


16 नवम्बर 1970 


1 लकड़ी के पैनेल लगे और IS : 1003 ( भाग I ) - 1966 लकड़ी के पनेल एक वर्ग मीटर 
और कांच लगे किवाड़ लगे और कांच लगे किवाड़ों की विशिष्टि 

( पहला पुनरीक्षण ), भाग 1 दरवाजों के 

किवाड़ 
2 दरवाजों , खिड़कियों और IS : 4021 - 1967 दरवाजों , खिड़कियों और एक वर्ग मीटर 

रोशनदानों के लकड़ी के रोशनदानों के लकड़ी के चौखटों की विशिष्टि 
चौखटे 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


10 पैसे 


16 नवम्बर 1970 


3 चीड़ का तेल 


IS : 5757 - 1970 चीड़ के तेल की विशिष्टि 


एक लीटर 


1 पैसे 


1 नवम्बर 1970 


[ सं . सो० एम० डी० 13 : 10] 


83 


84 


S . O . 57. In pursuance of sub - regulation ( I ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ), Regulations , 1955 , as amended 
from time tatime , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that aighteen licences , particulars of which are given in the following Schedules 114 ve 
been granted authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Marks : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Serial 


Licence No. CM / L 


No . 


Name and Address of the Licensee 


Pariod of Validity 
Prom 


Article /Process covered by the 
Licence and the Relevant IS : 

Designation 


To 


mo 


2 ) 


I 


CM / L - 2383 . 
5 -8 - 1970 


. 


1 -9 - 1970 


Brandies - IS :4450 - 1967 


31 -8 - 1971 Pampasar Distillery , India Sugars & 

Refideries Ltd ., Hospet , Bellary 

District , Mysore State . 
31 -8 - 1971 

Do . 


2 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1- 9- 1970 


Whiskies - IS : 4449 - 1967 


CM /L - 2384 . 
5 - 8 - 1970 
CM / L - 2385 
6 - 8 - 1970 


3 


. 


. 


. 


, 


16 - 8 - 1970 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII 


CM /L - 2386 . 
10 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 -4 - 1970 


5 


CM / L - 2387 . 
10 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


15 - 8 - 1971 Shree Ram Engg . & Mig . Industries, Domestic gas stoves for use with 

Pratapnagar (Factory Area ) , Baroda, liquefied petroleum gases 
(Gujarat State ). 

IS : 4246 - 1967. 
31 - 8- 1971 Pampasar Distillery , India Sagars & Rectified spirits Grade 1 

Refineries Ltd . , Hospet , Bellary IS : 323- 1959 

District , Mysore State. 
15 - 8 - 1971 Highland Metal Industries , Village Wrought aluminium and alumi 

Waliv , Taluka Bassein , Distt, Thana nium alloy ute asils, Grade 
(Maharashtra ) having their office at SIC - IS : 21- 1959 . 
B - 24 , Sarvoday Nagar, Panjrapole 

Lang, Bombay - 4 . 
15 - 8 - 1971 Gagaibhai Jute Mills , Division : Jute bagging for wrapping cotton 

Mafatlal Gagalbhai & Co ., Private baies - IS : 4436 - 1967. 
Ltd , Sijberia , Ulqberia , Distt . 
Howrah (W . Bengal) having their 
office at 38 , Chowjoghee Road , 

Calcutta - 16 . 
15 - 8 - 1971 I. B . I. Private Ltd , S - 86 , Andheri Water stills for pyrogen - free dis 

Kurla Road , Bambay - 59 having tilled water IS : 3830 - 1966 . 
their Ragd oiice at Victoria Building, 
Parsee Ba291 Street, Port , Bombay 
I BR 


16 - 8 - 1970 


6 


CMIL - 2388 . 
12 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 8 - 1970 


7 


CM / L - 2389 , 
12 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


, 


16 - 8 - 1970 


8 CM /L - 2390 . 

14 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


16 -8- 1970 


9 CMİL -2391 . 

18 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1-9- 1970 


IO 


CMIL - 2392 . 
19 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 - 9 - 1970 


II CML - 2393 . 

19 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I - 9 - 1970 


I2 


CM / L - 2394 , 
19 - 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


13 CM /L-2395 . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 -9 - 1970 
1- 9- 1970 
1-9- 1970 


15 -8- 1971 The Parshuram Pottery Works Co . Ltd , Glazed earthenware tiles - I$ :777 ja 

Amarpara , Wankade? (Gujarat - 1961 
State ) having their Regd . office 

at Morri, (Gujarat State ). 
31-8- 1971 Shah Modica 1 & Surgi cal Co . Ltd . Needles, hypodermic- IS :3317 

Ajwa Road , Baroda haying their 1965 
office at 3I1 , Sandar Patel Road , 

Bombay -4 . 
31 - 8 - 1971 Tropical Agrosystems (P ) Ltd . 520 /2 Endrin emulsifiable concentrates 

B , Vanagaram Road , Ambattur , IS : 1310 - 1958 . 
Madras - 53 , having their office at 

20 Maniappa Road , Madras- 10 . 
31 - 8 - 1971 Associated Instruments Mir s ( I ) Pri- Cube moulds for cement testing 

Yate Ltd , 35, Najafgarh Road , as per clause 8 .4 .2 . - IS : 4031 
New Delhi- 15 having their office 1968 
at Sunlight Buildings . 26 - 27 . Asaf 

Ali Road , New Delhi- I , 
31- 8- 1971 Yogi Raj Chemical Laboratorias , Gill Ink , stamo padaIS : 393 - 1968 . 

Road, Millerganj, Ludhiana. 
31 -8 - 1971. The HindIron Poundry , Railway Road , Cast iron flushing cisterns tor 
Bataia (Punjab ) 

water closets and urinals , high 
level , bell type , 12 .5 litres , 

capacity only IS : 774 - 1964 . 
31- 8- 1971 Excel Industries Ltd ., 184 - 87, SwamiMalathion technical - I$ : 1832 

Vivekanand Road , Jogeshwari, Bom 
bay -60 

1961 
31-8 - 1971 

Da . 

Malathione mulsifiable concen 

trates - IS : 2567 - 1963 
15 -9 - 1971 Tuticorin Salt Refineries Ltd ., Urani Lighi magnesium carbonate for 

Egateasian , Salt Factory , I uticorin - cosmetic industry IS : 2528 
4 having their office at 283, West 1963 

Great Cotton Road , Tuticorin - 2 . 
31 - 8 - 1971 Gannon Dunkerley & Co . Ltd ., Old Welded low carbon shteel gas 

B . P . T , Road , Mahul , Bombay - 74 AS cylinders of 33 . 3 litres water 
having their Regd , Office at Char - capacity for the storage and 
tered Bank Building , Post Box No, transportation of low pressure 
1547, Fort, Bombay - 1 BR . 

liquefiahle gases — IS :3196 

1968 
31-8- 1971 Artee Minerals , 1517 , Mathura Road , Malathion emulsifiable con 
Faridabad (Haryana) 

ctrates - IS : 2567- 1967 


31-8- 1971 


31- 8 - 1970 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA;JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


1 -9 - 1970 


1-9-1970 5 31-8-197 


14 CM [L- 2396 . 

CM /L -2397 . 


31 - 8 - 1970 


. . 
. . 


. . . 
. . . 


1 - 9- 1970 


31- 8 - 1970 
CM / L -2398 . 
31- 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


16 - 9 - 1970 


17 


CM / L - 2399 . 
31- 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1 - 9 - 1971 


18 CM /L -2400 . 

31- 8 - 1970 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


1- 9- 1970 


(No . CMD / 13 .11 ] 


85 


एस० ओ० 57. -- पमय समय पर संशोधित भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्न ) विनियम , 1955 के विनियम 8 के उपविनियम ( 1 ) 
के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की ओर से सुचित किया जाता है कि 18 लाइसेंस जिनके व्यौरे नोवे असूची में दिये हैं लाइसेंसधारियों को मानत 
सम्बन्धी मुहर लगाने का अधिकार देते हुए स्वीकृत किये गये हैं : 

अनुसूची 


वैधता को अवधि 


लाइसेंसधारी का नाम और पता 


क्रम संख्या लाइसेंस संख्या 

सो एम / एल 


लाइसेंस के अधोन वस्तु/ प्रक्रिया 
योर तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानक 
IS : पदनाम 


से 


तक 


(1 ) 


( 2) 


( 3) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


। 


1 


1 - 9 - 1970 


सी एम एल - 2383 
5 - 8 - 1970 


ब्रान्डियां 
IS : 4450 - 1967 


31 - 8 - 1971 पम्पासर डिस्टिलरी 

इंडिया शुगर्स एण्ड रिफानरीज लि . 
होजपेट , बेलारी जिला 

मसूर राज्य 
31 - 8 - 1971 


THBGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII 


1 - 9 - 1970 


2 सो एमएल - 2384 

5 - 8 - 1970 
3 सो एम / एल - 2385 

6 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1970 


बिस्कियां 

IS : 4449 - 1967 
द्रवित पेट्रोलियम गैस से चलने 
___ वाले घरेलू गेम स्टोव 
IS : 4246 - 1967 
परिशोधित स्पिरिट , ग्रेड । 
IS : 323 - 1959 


1 - 9 - 1970 


15 - 8 - 1971 श्रीराम इंजीनियरिंग एण्ड मैन्युफैक्चरिंग 

इंडस्ट्रोज ; प्रतापनगर ( फक्ट्री क्षेत्र ) 

बड़ौदा ( गुजरात राज्य ) 
31 - 8 - 1971 पम्पासर डिस्टिलरी 

इंडिया शुगर्स एण्ड रिफानरीज लिल 
होजपेट , बेलारी जिला 
मैसूर राज्य 


4 सी एम/ एल - 2386 

10- 8 --1970 


5 


16 - 8 -1970 


सी एम एल - 2387 
10 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 8 - 1970 


6 सी एमएल - 2388 

12 - 8 - 1970 


15 - 8 - 1971 हाईलण्ड मेटल इंडस्ट्रीज 

पिटवां एल्युमिनियम और एल्य 
गांव वलीव , तालुका बसीन 

मिनियम मिश्रधातु के बर्तन 
जिला थाना ( महाराष्ट्र ) 

प्रड एस आई सी 
इनका कार्यालय बी - 24 सर्वोदय नगर IS : 21 - 1959 

पिंजरापोल गली, बम्बई - 4 में है । 
15 - 8 - 1971 गगलभाई जूट मिल्स 

सूती गांठों में लपेटने के लिये 
डिवीजन : मफतलाल गगलभाई 

पटसन के बैगिंग 
एण्ड क० प्रा० लि . 

IS : 4436 - 1967 
सिजबेरिया , उलुबेरिया 
जिला हावड़ा ( प . बंगाल ) 

इनका कार्यालय 38 चौरंगी रोड 

कलकत्ता - 16 में है । 
15 - 8 - 1971 आई० बी० आई० प्रा० लि . 

पायरोजन -रहित आसुत पानी के 
एस - 86 अंधेरी कुर्ला रोड 

लिए भभके 
बम्बई - 59; 

IS : 3830 - 1966 
इनका कार्यालय विक्टोरिया बिल्डिंग 

पारसी बाजार स्ट्रीट , फोर्ट , बम्बई - 1 में है । 
15 - 8 - 1971 दि पाराम पाटरी वर्क्स कं० लि . 

कांचाभ अदनवयर के टाइल 
अमरपाड़ा, बांकनेर ( गुजरात राज्य) IS : 777- 1961 

इनका रजि० कार्यालय मोर्वी ( गुजरात राज्य ) 


16 - 8 - 1970 


7 सी एम एल - 2389 

12 - 8 - 1970 


Sec.3(li)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,189287 


8 


16 - 8 - 1970 


सी एम / एल - 2390 
14 - 8 - 1970 


1 - 9 - 1970 


9 सी एम एल - 2391 

18 - 8 - 1970 


31 - 8 - 1971 शाह मेडिकल एण्ड सर्जकल कं . लि . 

अजवा रोड , बड़ौदा 
इनका कार्यालय 311 , सरदार पटेल रोड , 
बम्बई - 4 में है । 


अधोत्वक ( हाइपोडरमिक ) 

सुइयां -- 
IS : 3317 - 1965 


88 


(1) 


(2) 


( ३) 


( 4) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


- 


10 सी एम / एल - 2392 

19- 8 - 1970 


1 


- 9- 1970 


31 - 8 - 1971 ट्रापिकल ऐप्रेसिस्टमस ( प्रा . ) लिक 

एन्ड्रिन का पायसनीय तेज द्रव 
520/ 2 बी वनगाराम रोड 

IS : 1310 - 1958 
अम्बत्तूर, मद्रास - 53 

इनका कार्यालय 20 मनिप्पारोड, मद्रास - 10 


11 सी एम / एल - 2393 

19 - 8 - 1970 


1- 9 - 1970 


31 - 8 - 1971 एसोशियेटेड इंस्ट्र मेष्ट स मैन्यूफक्चरिंग ( आई ) 

प्रा० लि० 35, नजफगढ़ रोड , नई दिल्ली - 15 

इनका कार्यालय सनलाइट बिल्डिंग , 
26 , 27 प्रासफअली रोड , नई दिल्ली - 1 


खण्ड 8 . 4 . 2 के अनुसार सोमेण्ट 

के परीक्षण के लिए धन साँचे 
IS : 4031 - 1968 


THB 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
JANUARY 
2 
, 
1971 
/ 
PAUSA 
12 
, 
1892 
[ 
PART 
II 
- 
- 
- 


12 


1 - 9 - 1970 


सी एम / एल - 2394 
19 - 8 -- 1970 


मुहर लगाने की पड कीस्याही 
IS : 393 - 1968 


31 - 8 - 1971 योगीराज कमिकल लेबोरेट्रीज 

गिल रोड, मिलर गंज 

लुधियाना 
31 - 8 - 1971 दि हिन्द आयरन फाउंड्री 

रेलवे रोड 
बटाला ( पंजाब ) 


13 सी एम / एल - 2395 

31 - 8 - 1970 


1 - 3 - 1970 


मवालयों के लिये केवल 12. 5 

लोटर समाई वाली अंचे स्तर 
वालो घंटानुमा ढलवालोहे की 

फ्लश की टंकियां 
IS : 774 - 1964 
मालाथियोन तकनीकी 
IS : 1832 - 1961 


14 सी एम / एल - 2396 

31 - 8 - 1970 


1 - 9 - 1970 


31 - 8 - 1971 ऐक्सेल इण्डस्ट्रीज लि . 

184 - 87 स्वामी विवेकानन्द रोड 
जोगेश्वरी, बम्बई - 7 


1 - 9- 1970 


- 


- 


15 सी एम / एल - 2397 

31- 8 - 1970 
16 सो एमएल - 2398 

31 - 8 - 1970 


16 - 9 - 1970 


17 सी एम / एल - 2399 

31 - 8 - 1970 


1 


- 9 - 1970 


31 - 8 - 1971 

मालाथियोन पायसनीय तेज चूर्ण 

IS : 2567 - 1963 
15 - 9 - 1971 तूतोकोरन साल्टरिफाइनरीज लि . अंगार प्रसाधन उद्योग के लिये 
यूरानो एक्सटेन्शन , 

मेगनोशियम कार्बोनिट 
साल्ट फैक्टरी , नूतीकोरन - 4 

इनका कार्यालय 283 वेस्टग्रेट काटन रोड, 
तूतोकोरन - 2 में है । 

IS : 2528 - 1963 
31 - 8 - 1971 गनन डंकरले एण्ड कं० लि . 

अल्प दाब द्रवणीय गैसों के 
प्रोल्ड बी० पी० टी० रोड , माहुल 

भण्डारण और परिवहन के 
बम्बई - 74 ए एस 

लिए 33 . 3 लीटर पानी की 
इनका रजिस्टर्ड कार्यालय चार्टर्ड बैंक बिल्डिग , समाईवाले वेल्डकृत अल्प 
पो० बा० नं0 1547, फोर्ट , बम्बई - 1बो पार कार्बन इस्पात के गैस सिलिडर 

IS : 3196 - 1968 
31 - 8 - 1971 मारतो मिनरलस 

माल:थियोन पायसनोय तेज चूर्ण 
15/ 7, मथुरा रोड 

IS : 2567 - 1967 
फरीदाबाद ( हरयाना ) 


Sec.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


1 - 9 - 1970 


18 सी एम / एल - 2400 

31 - 8 - 1970 


[ संख्या सो एम डो / 13 : 11] 


89 


06 


New Delhi, the oth December , 1970 
S . O . 58 - Io pursuance of sub - rute (I) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Rules, 1955 the Indian Slandard 
Institution hereby notifies that the Standard Mark (s) , desiga (s ) of which together with the verbal description of the design ( s) and the title (s ) of 
the relevagt Indian Standard (s ) are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , have been specified . 


These Standard Mark (s) for the purpose of the Indian Standards Costitution ( Certification Marks) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations Framed 
thereunder , shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 


THE SCHEDULE 


Design of Product/Class of Product 
the Standard 
Mark 


No . and Title of the Relevant 

Indian Standard 


Verbal description of the Design of the 

Standard Mark 


Date of effect 


604 


Tower bolts 


IS : 204- 1966 Specification for 

lower bolts (second revision ) 


The monogram ofthe Indian Standards Ins - 16 September 1970 

titution consisting of letters ISI drawn 
in the exact style and relative proportions 
as indicated in col. ( 2 ) . thesum berdesig 
nation of the Indian Standard being su 
perscribed on the top side of the mono 
gram as iadcated in the design . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII. 


16 Oct 1970 


H $ 12 


Propeller type ac ventilating IS : 2312 - 1967 Spec fication for 
fans 

propeller type ac ventilating 

fans first revisioni 


The monogram of the Indian Stardaid s IIS- 
titution consisting of letters ISI , drenn 
in the exact style and relative proportions 
as indicated in col. ( 2 ), the number de 
Signation of the Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the topside of the mono 
gram as indicated in the design . 


Metal heald frames for flat 

steelhealds 


I Oct . 1970 


IS :4465 - 1967 Specification for 
metal heald frames for flat steel 
healds 


The monogram of the Indian Standards 

Institution , consisting of letters ISI , 
draynin the exact styleand relative pro 
portions as indicated in col. (2 ), the num 
ber designation of the Indian Standard 
beingsuperscribed on thetop side of the 
monogram as indicated in the design . 


No. CMD /139] 


नई दिल्ली , 10 दिसम्बर, 1970 
एस० ओ० 58 - भारतीय मानक सस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्हन ) नियम 1955, के नियम 4 के उपनियम ( 1 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक संस्था की 
ओर से सूचना दी जाती है कि मानक चिन्हन जिन ी डिजाइन और शाब्दिक विवरण तत्सम्बन्धी भारतीय मानकों के शीर्षक सहित नीचे अन सूची में दिए 
हैं , भा मा संस्था द्वारा निर्धारित किए गए हैं । 

भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिन्हन ) अधिनियम 1952 और उसके अधीन बने नियमों के निमित्त ये मानक - चिन्हन उनके आगे लिखी तिथियों 
से लागू हो जायगे । 


अनुसूची 


लागू होने की तिथि 


क्रमांक मानक चिन्हन की उत्पद / उत्पाद का वर्ग 

डिजाइन 


सम्बद्ध भारतीय मानक की 
पद संख्या और शीर्षक 


मानक चिन्हन की डिजाइन का शाब्दिक 
विवरण 


(1) 


( 2) 


(3) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


I 


टावर चटवनियां 


__ 


टावर चटखनियां IS : 204 - 1966 टावर चट - भारतीय मानक संस्था का मोनोग्राम जिसमें 16 सितम्बर 1970 

खनियों की विशिष्ट ( दूसरा ISI शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) मैं दिखाई 
पुनरीक्षण ) 

जैली और अनुपात में तैयार किया गया 
है । और जैसा दिखाया है उस मोनोग्राम 
के ऊपर की और भारतीय मानक की 

पदसंख्या दी हुई है । 
एसी के पंखदार संवातक IS : 2312 - 1967 ए भारतीय मानक संस्था का मौनोग्राम जिसमें 16 अक्टूबर 1970 

सी के पंखदार संवातक ISI शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) में दिखाई 
पंखों की विशिष्टि शैली और अनुपात में तैयार किया गया 

है, और जैसा दिखाया है उस मोमो 
ग्राम के ऊपर की ओर भारतीय मानक 
की पद संख्या दी हुई है । 


12 


पंखे 


91 


92 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


इस्पात के चपटे होल्डरों के IS: 4465 - 1967 इस्पात भारतीय मानक संस्था का मौनोग्राम जिसमें 1 अक्टूबर 1970 
लिए धातु के हील्ड फ्रेम के चपटे हील्डों के लिए ISI शब्द होते हैं स्तम्भ ( 2 ) मैं दिखाई 
धातु के हील्ड -फेम 

शैली अोर अनुपात में तैयार किया गया 
है , और जैसा दिखाया है उस मौनोग्राम 
के ऊपर की और भारतीय मानक की 
पद संख्या दी हुई है । 


- 


- 


--- 


[ सं० सी एम डी / 13 : 9] 


_THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII 


S . O . 59 - In pursuance of sub - regulation (3 ) of regulation 7 of the Indian Siandards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations 1955 
the Indian standards Institution hereby noitfies that the marking fee (s ) per unit for various products details ofwhich are givenin the schedule hereto 
annexed , have been determined and the fee ( s) shall come into force with effect from the dates shown against each : 


THE SCHEDULE 


si 


Product / Class of Products 


No. and Title of Relevant 
Indian Standard 


Unit 


Marking Fee per Unit 


Date of effect 


I paisa 


16 September 1970 


I Tower bolts 

IS : 204 - 1966 Specification for One piece 

toper bolts ( second revision ) 
2 Propeller type ac ventilating fans is : 2312- 1967 Specification One fan 

for propeller type ac ventilating 
fans 


(i) Re .1,00 per mit for the ist 1, 000 units 


16 October 1970 


and 


SEC.3(ii)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892 


1,000 cm 


3 Metal heald frames for flat steel IS : 4465 - 1967 Specification 
healds 

for metal heald frames for 
flat steel healds 


(ii ) Re. 0 . 50 per unit for the 1,000 Ist unit 
and above , 

Re 100 


October 1970 


-- 


[NO.CMD / 13 : 10 ] 

AX . GUPTA , 
Deputy Director General 


93 


94 


एस० प्रो० 59 - भारतीय मानक संस्था ( प्रमाणन चिह्वन ) विनियम , 1955 के विनियम 7 के उपविनियम ( 3 ) के अनुसार भारतीय मानक 
संख्या की पौर से सूचित किया जाता है कि विभिन्न वस्तुओं की मुहरांकन फीस जिनके ब्योरे नीचेअनुसूची में दिए हैं, निर्धारित की गई हैं और ये फीसे 
उनके आने लिखी तिथियों से लागू हो जाएंगी । 

अनुसूची 


क्रमांक उत्पाद उत्पाद का वर्म 


समबद्ध भारतीय मानक की पद- 
संख्या और शीर्षक 


इकाई 


प्रति इकाई मुहर लगाने की 

फीस 


लागू होने की तारीख 


( 3 ) 


( 4 ) 


( 5 ) 


( 6 ) 


(1 ) 
1 . 


( 2 ) 
टावर चटखनी 


एक चटखनी 


एक पैसा 


16 सितम्बर 1970 


IS : 204 - 1966 टावर चट - 

खनियों की विशिष्टि ( दूसरा 

पुनरीक्षण ) 
IS : 2312 - 1967 ए सी के 
पंखदार संवात पंखों की 

विशिष्टि 


2 . 


एसी कपंखदार संवातक पंखे 


एक पंखा 


( 1 ) पहली 1000 इकाइयों 

तक रु० 1 . 00 प्रति 

इकाई 
( 2 ) 1001 वीं और उससे 16 अक्टूबर 1970 

ऊपर इकाइयों के लिए 
रु० 0 . 50 प्रति इकाई 
रु . 1 . 00 

1 अक्टूबर 1970 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:JANUARY2,1971/PAUSA12,1892[PARTII-- 


1000 से मी 


इपात के चपटे हील्डों के लिए धातु के IS : 4465 - 1967 इस्पात के 
हील्ड-फ्रेम 

चपटे हील्डों के लिए धातु के 
हील्ड -फ्रेम 


[सं० सी० एम० डी०/ 13 :10] 

ए० के० गुप्ता , 
उपमहानिदेशक । 


SEC. 3(1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


95 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 


S . O . 60. - In pursuance of section 4 of the Employees State Insurance Act , 
1048 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby nominates Shri D . S . Nim, Joint 
Secretary to the Government of India , Department of Labour and Employment, 
to be a member of the Employees State Insurance Corporation , and makes the 
following further amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour 
and Employment ) No. S . O . 2551, dated the 9th August , 1986, namely :--- 

In the said notification under the heading “ [Nominated by the Central Govern 
ment under clause ( c ) of section 4 ] ” — 

( a ) the entry against item 4 shall be omitted ; 
( b ) the existing entries against items 5 and 6 shall be inserted against items 

4 and 5 respectively : 
( c ) against item 6, the following entry shall be inserted, namely : 
" Shri D. S . Nim, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment, New Delhi," 

[ No . F . 202 / 2 / 70 - HI .] 


श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 11 दिसम्बर , 1970 


एस . मो० 60 : - -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की 
धारा 4 के प्रनसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा श्री डी० एस० निम , सयुक्त सचिव , भारत सरकार , 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग को कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम का सदस्य नाम निर्दिष्ट करती है और 
भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना 
सं० फा० प्रा० 2551, तारीख 9 अगस्त , 1966 में पीर मागे निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है , 
पति : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में “ (धारा 4 के खण्ड ( ग ) के अधीन केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा 
नाम निर्दिष्ट ) " शीर्षक के नीचे -- 

( क ) मद 4 के सामने की प्रविष्टि फा लोप कर दिया जाएगा ; 
( ख ) मद 5 और 6 के सामने की विद्यमान प्रविष्टियों को क्रमशः मद 4 और 5 के सामने 

अन्तः स्थापित किया जाएगा ; 
( ग ) मद 6 के सामने निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि अन्तः स्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात : 

" श्री डी० एस० निम , 
संयुक्त सविच , भारत सरकार, 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग , 
नई दिल्ली । " 


[ सं० फा० 202 /2/ 70- एच० भाई०] 


96 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II . 


S . O . 61. - In exercise of the powers confewrred by sub- section ( 1 ) of section 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ), the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri G . Pullaiah to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
State of Punjab and Haryana and the Union Territories of Chandigarh and 
Himachal Pradesh for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme framed 
thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the control of, 
the Central Government, or in relation to any establishment connected with a 
railway company , a mine or an oil field or a controlled industry . 

[ No. A. 12015 ( 2 ) / 70 - PFI ( 1) . ] 


का० प्रा० 61.- - कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) की धारा 
13 को उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री जी० 
पुल्लइयाह को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके अधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों के लिए केन्द्रीय 
सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थापन के संबंध में या किसीरेल कंपनी, खान या तेल क्षेत्र या 
नियंत्रित उद्योग से संबंधित किसी स्थापन के संबंध में सम्पूर्ण पंजाब और हरियाणा राज्यों और 
चंडीगढ़ और हिमाचल प्रदेश के संघ राज्य क्षेत्रों के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ सं० ए० 12015 ( 2)/ 70-पो० एफ• I (ii ) ] 


S . O . 62.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- section( 1 ) of Bection 
13 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints Shri M . L . Gupta to be an Inspector for the whole of the 
Union territory of Delhi for the purposes of the said Act and of any Scheme 
framed thereunder , in relation to any establishment belonging to , or under the 
control of the Central Government or and in relation to any establishment con 
nected with a railway company, a mine or an oil-feld or a controlled industry . 

[ No. 21 ( 6 ) / 68 - PF - I. ] 


का० प्रा० 62. -- कर्मचारी भविष्य निधि अधिनियम , 1952 ( 1952 का 19 ) 
की धारा 13 की उपधारा ( 1 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
श्री० एम० एल० गुप्त को उक्त अधिनियम और उसके अधीन विरचित किसी स्कीम के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए केन्द्रीय सरकार के या उसके नियंत्रणाधीन किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में या किसी रेल कम्पनी , 
खान या तेल क्षेत्र या नियंत्रित उद्योग से सम्बन्धित किसी स्थापन के सम्बन्ध में सम्पूर्ण दिल्ली संघ 
राज्य - क्षेत्र के लिए निरीक्षक नियुक्त करती है । 

[ संख्या 21( 5 )/ 68 -पी० एफ०-I ] 


$ . O . 63. - In pursuance of section 8 of the Employees State Insurance Act, 
1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government hereby nominates Shri D . $ . Nim 
Joint Secretary to the Government of India , Department of Labour and Employ 
ment, to be a member of the Standing Committee of the Employees State Insur 
ance Corporation , and makes the following further amendment in the notification 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabill 
tation (Department of Labour and Employment) No . $ . O . 995 dated the 1st March , 
1969 , namely : - - 

In the said notification under the heading " (Nominated by the Central Govern 
ment under clause (b ) of section 8 ) " against Item 2 , the following entry shall be 
Inserted, namely : 
"Shri D . S . Nim, Joint Secretary to the Government of India, Department 
of Labour and Employment, New Delhi." 

[ No. F . 202 ( 2 ) / 70 - HI .] 


का० प्रा० 63: - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
8 के अनुसरण में केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा श्री डी० एस० निम , संयुक्त सचिव , भारत सरकार, श्रम 
और रोजगार विभाग , को कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा निगम की स्थायी समिति का सदस्य नामनिर्दिष्ट 
करती है और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


97 


अधिसूचना संक्या का० प्रा०995 तारीख मनमा , 1969 में पोर पोतिनोन 
करती है , अर्थात : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना में " ( धारा 8 के खण्ड ( ख ) के अधीन केन्द्रीय सरकार द्वारा नामनिर्दिष्ट ) " 
शीर्षक के नीचे, मद 2 के सामने , निम्नलिखित प्रविष्टि अन्तःस्थापित की जाएगी , अर्थात : 

" श्री डी० एस० निम , 
संयुक्त सचिव, भारत सरकार, 
श्रम और रोजगार विभाग " 

[ सं० फा० 202 ( 2) / 70 -एच० आई० ] 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 
S . O . 64 . - --In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act, 1948 (43 of 1948 ) and in continuation of the notifica 
lion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No. S . O . 1605 dated thee 
23rd April, 1970 the Central Government having regard to the location of the face 
tory, namely , Workshop beionging to the Municipal Corporation , Indore, in an 
area in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force , 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer s special con 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 29th June, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 28th June, 
1971 . 

[ File No . 601 ( 2 ) / 70 - HI. ] 
नई दिल्ली , 16 दिसम्बर 1970 
का० प्रा० 64. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 (1948 का 34 ) 
की धारा 73 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और 
पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधितूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 1605 तारीख 23 
अप्रैल , 1970 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार कारखाने, अर्थात , नगर निगम , इंदौर की कर्मशाला को ऐसे 
क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्ययाय 4 और 5 के उपबंध प्रवृत्त है , अवस्थिति को ध्यान 
में रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम , के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उग्रहणीय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 29 जून , 1970 से 28 जून , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलिस 
हैं , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० 601 ( 2 ) / 70 - एच . आई 
S . O . 65 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
sion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha 
Tilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No . S . O . 4832 dated the 26th 
November , 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location of the 
" Tirumala Tirupathi Dewasthanam Transport Garage Workshop , Tirupathi in an 
nirea in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force , 
hereby exempts the said workshop from the payment of the employer s special 
contribution levlable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 28th August, 1970 upto and inclusive of the 27th August, 
1971 . 

___ [ No. F. 601 ( 22 ) / 70- HI. ] 
का० प्रा० 63: - -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम, 1948 (1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73 च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम, रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
भंसालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की अधिसूचना सं० का०मा० 4832 तारीख 26 नवम्बर, 1969 
के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार तिरुमल तिरुपतिदेव स्थानम दास्पोर्ट गरेज वर्कशाप , तिरुपति को ऐसे क्षेत्र 
में जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के प्रध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रबस है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में रखते हुए 


98 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART H 


उक्त कर्मशाला को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5- क के अधीन उदग्रहणीय नियोजक के विशेष भिदाय 
के संदाय से 28 अगस्त , 1970 से 27 अगस्त , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित है , एक और 
वर्ष की फलावधि के लिए एतद्द्वारा छूट देती है 

[ सं० फा० 601 ( 22 )/ 70 -एच० आई० ] 


S . O , 66 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment 
and Rehabilitation , Department of Labour and Employment) No. S . O . 2970 , 
dated the 16th July , 1969 , the Central Government having regard to the location 
of the factory , namely Cottage Industries and Textile Training Institute , Nagpur , 
in an arca in which the provisions of Chapter IV and V of the said Act are in force , 
hereby exempts the said factory from the payment of the employer s special con 
tribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 2nd June, 1970 upto and inclusive of the list June, 1971 , 

[ No. F . 601 ( 19 ) /70 - HI. ] 
का०मा० 66 . - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की 
धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगारविभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 2970 तारीख 16 जुलाई, 
1969 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार कारखाने , अर्थात कुटीर उद्योग और वस्त्र प्रशिक्षण संस्थान , नागपुर 
की ऐसे क्षेत्र मे , जिसमें उत अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रदत्त है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त कारखाने को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5-क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 2 जून , 1970 से प्रथम जून , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मिलित 
है , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिये एतद्वारा छूट देता है । 

[ स • फा० 60 1 ( 19 ) / . - एच भाई० ] 


S . O . 67 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act. 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and In continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha 
bilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . SO. 683 dated the 11th 
February , 1970 , the Central Government havine regard to the location of the Police 
Automobile Workshops at Blkaner and Jodhpur, in an area in which the provisions 
of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are in force, hereby exempts the said work 
shops from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 
1st July , 1970 , upto and inclusive of the 30th June, 1971. 

___ [ No. F. 60 ( 21 ) / 70 - HI. ] 
का० प्रा० 67.-- -कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की 
धारा 73च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुन 
यसि मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगारविभाग ) की अधिसूचना सख्या का० प्रा० 683 तारीख 11 फरवरी , 
1970 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार बीकानेर और जोधपुर में पुलिस पाटोमोबाइल कर्मशालाप्रो की 
ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त हैं , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त कर्मशालाओं को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उडग्रहणीय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से प्रथम जुलाई, 1970 से 30 जून , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी सम्मि 
लित है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतद्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० 601 ( 21 )/ 70- एच० आई० ] 


6 . 0 . 68. - In exercise of the powers conterred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948), and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Reha 
bilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) No . S . O . 4411 . dated the 22nd 


SEÇ. 3 ( ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAPŞA 13, 1892 


99 


October , 1969 , the Central Government having regard to the location of the estab 
lishment, namely Security Paper Mill Project, Hoshangabad , in non - implemented 
area in which the provişions of Chapters IV and y of the said Act are not in force , 
hereby exempts the said establishment from the payment of the employer s special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one 
year with effect from the 1st November , 1970 upto and inclusive of the 31st October , 
1971 . 

[ No. F . 801 ( 47 ) /70 - III .] 


का० प्रा० 68. - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की 
धारा 7 3च द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिसूचना स० का० प्रा० 4411 तारीख 22 अक्तूबर , 
1969 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार स्थापन की अर्थात् सिक्योरिटी पेपर मिल प्रोजेक्ट , होशंगाबाद की 
अकार्यान्वयन क्षेत्र में ,जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत नहीं हैं , अवस्थिति 
को ध्यान में रखते हुए उक्त स्थापन को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक 
के विशेष अभिदाय के साथ से प्रथम नवम्बर , 1970 से 31 अक्तूबर , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी 
सम्मिलित है, एक और वर्ष के कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती ई । 

[ सं० फा० 601 ( 47 )/ 70 -एब० आई० ] 


S . O . 69. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), and in continuation of the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Re 
habilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No . S . O . 4831 dated the 26th 
November , 1969, the Central Government having regard to the location of the Diesel 
Power House owned by the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay in an area in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the Act are in force, hereby cxempts the said 
power house from the payment of the employer s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter VA of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 
5th November , 1970 upto and inclusive of the 4th November, 1971 . 

[ No. F . 601( 48 ) / 70 - HI. ] 


का०मा० 69. - कर्मचारी राज्य मोमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
73च द्वारा प्रदत शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास 
मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 4831 तारीख 26 नवम्बर , 
1969 के क्रम में केन्द्रीय सरकार मम्बई पत्तन न्यास, मम्बई के स्वामित्वाधीन डीजल पावर हाउस को 
ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबन्ध प्रवृत्त है , अवस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त पावर हाउस को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उद्ग्रहणीय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाय से 5 नवम्बर , 1970 से 4 नवम्बर, 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी मम्मि 
लित है, एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिये एनद्वारा छुट देती है । 

[सं० फा0 601 ( 48 ) / 70 - एन० प्राई. ] 


S . O . 70 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 87 of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 (34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
exempts ( 1 ) Mourigram Installation (Marketing Division ), P . O . Radhadasi, District 
Howrah , and ( 2 ) Dum Dum Aviation Fuel Station (Marketing Division ) Dum Dum 
Airport, Calcutta , belonging to Indian Oil Corporation Ltd ., from all the provisions 
of the said Act for a period of one year with effect from the date of publication of 
the notification in the Official Gazette , 

[ No. F . 602 ( 22) /10- HI. ] 


का०मा० 70 . - - कर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 
87 द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा भारतीय तेल निगम 
लिमिटेड के ( 1 ) मौरी ग्राम इन्स्टालेशन (विपणन प्रभाग ) डाकपर राधापासी, जिला हावड़ा और 


tao 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA :12. 1892 [ PAIT TE 


( 2) डम डम एयरपोर्ट , कलकत्ता को उक्त प्रधिनियम के सभी उपबन्धों से इस अधिसूचना के 
शासकीय राजपत्र में प्रकाशित होने की तारीख से एक वर्ष की कालावधि के लिये छूट देती है । 

[सं० फा० 602( 22 )/ 70 -एच० आई० ] 
S . O . 71 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 737 of the Em 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ), the Central Government having 
regard to the location of the factory known as Electric Meter Workshop and In 
strument and Relay Section , Nirman Bhawan , New Delhi, belonging to the New 
Delhi Municipal Committee, in an area in which the provisions of Chapters 
IV and V of the Act are in force hereby exempts the said factories from the 
payment of employer s special contribution levlable under Chapter VA of the 
said Act for a period of one year with effect from the 11th September , 1970 upto 
and inclusive of the 10th September , 1971, 

[ No. F . 602 (38) /70- HI. ] 
का० प्रा० 71.- - कर्मचारी राज्य बोमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) 
की धारा 73व द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार नई दिल्ली नगरपालिका की 
विद्युत मीटर कर्मशाला और उपकरण और रिले अनुभाग ,निर्माण भवन , नई दिल्ली , नामक कारखाने 
की ऐसे क्षेत्र में , जिसमें उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 4 और 5 के उपबंध प्रवत्त है, अवस्थिति को ध्यान में 
रखते हुए उक्त कारखानो को उक्त अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 - क के अधीन उदग्रहणोय नियोजक के 
विशेष अभिदाय के संदाप से 11 सितम्बर, 1970 से 10 सितम्बर , 1971 तक जिसमें वह दिन भी 
मम्मिलित है , एक और वर्ष की कालावधि के लिए एतदद्वारा छूट देती है । 

[ सं० फा० 602 ( 38 )/ 70 एच० आई० ] 
S . O . 72. - Nil. 

S . O . 73 . — Whereas the Central Government was satisfied that Messrs National 
Coal Development Corporation , P . O . Kathara , was situated in Kathara area which 
was a sparse area (that is , an area whose insurable population was less than 500 ) 
in the district of Hazaribagh in the State of Bihar; 

And , whereas by virtue of its location in a sparse area, the aforesaid factory 
was granted exemption from the payment of the emp .oyers special contribution 
under section 73- F of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) until 
enforcement of the provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in that area by the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employment ) , No. S . O . 3400, dated the 
16th September, 1988 ; 

And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the insurable population 
of the Kathara area in the district of Hazaribagh in the State of Bihar has now 
exceeded 500 , and it is no longer a sparse area ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 73 - F of the Em . 
ployees State Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the foilowing further amendment in the said notification , namely : - 
In the Schedule to the said notification Serial No. 1 and the entries relating 
thereto shall be omitted . 

[ No. F . 603 ( 4) /70- HI. 


का० प्रा० 73. - पत : केन्द्रीय सरकार को यह समाधान हो गया था कि मैसर्स नेशनल 
कोल उलवपमेन्ट कारपोरेशन , डाकघर कथरा , कयरा क्षेत्र में स्थित था जो बिहार राज्य के हजारीबाग 
जिले में बिखरी हुई पाबादी का क्षत्र , (अर्थात ऐसा क्षेत्र जिसकी बीमा योग्य प्राबादी 500 से कम थी ) 
था ; 

और, यत : उसकी बिखरोहई आबादी के क्षेत्र में अवस्थिति के माधार पर केन्द्रीय सरकार ने 
उपर्युक्त कारखाने को , भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार 
विभाग ) की अधिसूचना संख्या का प्रा0 3400 तारीख 16 सितम्बर , 1968 द्वारा कर्मचारी राज्य 
बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 74च के अधीन नियोजक के विशेष अभिदाय 


Suc . 3 (* ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 JOI 


- 


- 


- 


के संदाय से तब तक के लिये छूट दे दीपी जब तक कि उस अधिनियम के अध्याय 5 के उपमन्ध उस क्षेत्र 
में प्रवर्तित नहीं हो जाते ; 

मोर , यत : केमीय सरकार को यह समाधान हो गया है कि बिाहर राज्य के हजारोमान जिसे 
में कपरा क्षेत्र की बीमा योग्य मायादीमब 500 से बढ़ गई है, पौर वह भय बिखरी हुई मायादी का क्षेत्र 
नहीं है 

प्रतः, अब फर्मचारी राज्य बीमा अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 34 ) की धारा 73 - 7 
द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतवद्वारा उक्त मधिसूचना में और मागे 
निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती है, अर्थात : - - 

उक्त अधिसूचना की अनुसूची में क्रम संख्या 1 और उससे सम्बन्धित प्रविष्टियों का लोप कर 
दिया जाएगा । 

[ संख्या फा० 603 ( 4)/ 70 -एच० पाई. ] 


CORRIGENDA 

New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 
S. 0 . 14 - In the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and Employ 
ment) No. S . O . 2657, dated the 28th July , 1970 , published at page 3586 of the 
Gazette of India , Part II, Section 3, Sub Section ( ii ), dated the 8th August , 1970 , 
in line 10 from bottom , 
for " P. D. Shanbhag " read " D. D. Shanbhag " 

[ No. 21 ( 8 ) / 69- PF - I. ] 
परिपनों 

नई दिल्ली , 11 दिसम्बर , 1970 
का०मा० 74. - - भारत के राजपन्न तारीख 8 अगस्त , 1970 भाग 2, खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड 
(ii ) के पुष्ठ 3586 और 3587 पर प्रकाशित भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय 
( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) को अधिसूचना संख्या का प्रा० 2657 तारीख 28 जुलाई , 1970 में 
पृष्ठ 3587 पर प्रथम पक्ति में 
" पी० डी० संभाग " के स्थान पर " डी० डी० संभाग " पढ़िए 

[ सख्या 21 ( 8 ) / 69 -पी० एफ०- 1 ] 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1970 
8 . 0 . 75 . In the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) 
No. S . O . 2488 , dated the 13th July , 1970 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II , 
section 3 , sub - section ( ii) at pages 3182 and 3183 in line 4 from bottom at page 
3182 for " 18th September, 1969 ", read. "16th September , 1968" . 

No. F.8 (12) / 68- HI.) 

___ DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy . 
नई दिल्ली , 16 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 75 . भारत के राजपत्र , भाग 2 , खण्ड 3, उपखण्ड ( ii ) पृष्ठ 3183 पर 
प्रकाशित भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) की 
अधिसूचना सं० का०मा० 2488 तारीख 13 जुलाई, 1970 में पंक्ति 6 में “ 16 सितम्बर , 1969 " 
के स्थान पर " 16 सितम्बर , 1968 " पढ़िए । 

[ सं . फा० 6 ( 12) / 68 - एच पाई ] 

दलजीत सिंह , अवर सचिव । 


102 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 24, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892. [Part II * 


(Dopartmont of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi , the 15th December 1970 
S . O . 76 . — Whereas by the Notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 
Employment) No . S . O . 2283, dated the 22nd June, 1970, the Central Government, 
being satisfied that the public interest so required , had declared the industry for 
the supply of milk under the Delhi Milk Scheme to be a public utility service for 
the purposes of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , for a period of six 
months from the 22nd June , 1970 . 

And whereas the Central Government is of opinion that public interest requires 
the extension of the said period ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub - clause 
( vi) of clause (n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public utility service 
for the purposes of the said Act, for a further period of six months from the 22nd 
December, 1970. 

[ No . 1 / 84 / 70 - LR-I. ] 
( श्रन और रोजगार विभाग ) 


नई दिल्ली , 15 दिसम्बर 1970 


का० प्रा० 76. - - यत केन्द्रीय सरकार ने , यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि लोक हित में ऐसा 
अपेक्षित था , भारत सरकार के श्रम , रोजगार और पुनर्वास मंत्रालय ( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 
की अधिसूचना सं० का० प्रा० 2283 तारीख 22 जून , 1970 द्वारा दिल्ली दुग्ध स्कीम के अधीन 
दुग्ध के प्रदाय के लिए उद्योग को औद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) के प्रयोजनों 
के लिए 22 जून , 1970 से 6 मास की कालावधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित किया था । 


और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि लोक हित में उक्त कालावधि का बढ़ाया जाना अपेक्षित 


अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 2 के खण्ड 
( ) के उपखण्ड ( iii ) के परन्तुक द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियो का प्रयोग करते हुए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा 
उक्त उद्योग को उक्त अधिनियम के प्रयोजनो के लिए 22दिसम्बर , 1970 से 6 मास की और काला 
वधि के लिए लोक उपयोगी सेवा घोषित करती है । 

[ सं० 1/ 84/ 70 -एल०पार०- I ] 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1970 


S . O . 77.-- -Whereas, a vacancy has occurred in the office of the Presiding 
Oncer of the Labour Court at Hyderabad , constituted by notification No. S .O . 456 , 
dated the 5th February, 1963 of the Government of India in the late Ministry 
of Labour and Employment, 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of the Industria ! 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Tara 
chand Gupta as Presiding Officer of the Labour Court constituted as aforesaid . 

__ [ F. No. 1 / 52 / 70-LRI ] 
नई दिल्ली , 17 दिसम्बर 1970 


का० प्रा० 77 - पत : भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम और रोजगार मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना 
संख्या का प्रा० 456 तारीख 5 फरवरी, 1963 द्वारा गठित हैदराबाद स्थित श्रम न्यायालय के 
पीठासीन अधिकारी का पद रिक्त हो गया है । 


8tc.-12 ül)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 103 
Sen 

: rotette fetare afuf * H , 1947 ( 1947 AT 14 ) # ART 8 T quatter 
शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रीय सरकार एतदद्वारा. श्री ताराचन्द गप्त को उपयक्त रूप में मठित 
श्रम न्यायालय का पीठासीन अधिकारी नियक्त करती है । 

[sent 970 1/ 52/70 – - I ] 

एस० एस० सहस्रनमन , अवर सचिव । 
New Delhi, the 19th December 1970 
S . O . 78 , In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta in the industrial dispute between the em . 
players in relation to the Bank of Baroda and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 14th December , 1970 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 42 OF 1970 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Bank of Baroda. 

AND 
Their workmen 


PRESENT . 

Mr. B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of the Employers.-- Mr. S . Sarkar , Advocate. 

On behalf of Workmen - -Mr. A . D . Singh . 
STATE : West Bengal, 

AWARD 


INDUSTRY: Banking. 


By Order No . 23 / 29 / 70 -LRIII, dated 3rd September 1970 , the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Labour , Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employmont), referred the following industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bank cf Baroda and their workmen , to this Tribunal, for adjudication , 
namely : 

Whether the action of the Management of the Bank of Baroda . Calcutta - 1 , in 

transferring Shri C . R . Kundu , from the post of Cash -Peon -Cum - Daftry 
at the College Strect Branch to the post of a Peon at the India Ex 
change Branch with effect from 25th November , 1969 and thereby 
depriving him of the special Daftry aliowance was justified ? If not , to 
what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


2 . If the order of Reference he analysed properly , it appears that the workmen s 
grievance was of two- lold nature. The grievance was directed , from anything apart , 
against an order of transfer , in the first place, and , in the next place, the grievances 
as against a transfer inflicting upon the concerned workmen the loss in the form of 
deprivation of special " dałtry allowance " . 

3 . The foliowing facts are not disputed The concerned workman , C . R . Kundu , 
was appointed , in the subordinate grade of the Bank s service , as a Cash Peon with 
effect from May 1 , 1966 , in the Burra Bazar Branch of the Bank . Thcrcafter , he 
was transferred to the Sealdah Branch and subsequentiy to the College Street 
Branch of th Bank , with effect from July 30 , 1967 . Since his transfer to the College 
Street branch , he was entrusted with the duty of a " daftry " in addition to his regu 
lar work as a peon , 

4 . Now , the settlement arrived at between the Bank s management and their 
wurkmen on the 19th October , 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the bipartite agree 
ment), provides , in paragraph 53 of Part II, Chapter V (page 14 ), for payment 
Special allowance to the members of the subordinate staff for duties and reyn 
ties as listed in Part II of Appendix B of the settlement. The specia 


104 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 . 1892 [PART IL 


Dayable to daftries, under the aforesaid paragraph , in class “ A ” banks (to which the 
omplayer Bank belongs ), comes upto Rs. 15 / - per month . 

5 . In paragraphs 7 and 8 of the written statement Aled by the employer bank it 
is pleaded : 
“ 7. That the concerned employee made representations to the Bank for grant 

ing him the Special Allowance for Daftary s work as specified in Bipar 
tite Settlement of 1966 . Following his individual representations, the 
Bank of Baroda Ltd ., Calcutta Staff Association took up the matter on 
behalf of the concerned employee with the management and threatened 
that unless the said dispute for special allowance is settled , the Union 

will resort to other methods, for settlement of the dispute . * * * 
8 . That in order to avoid further dispute, the Bank conceded to the demands. 

of the Union in good faith and in consideration of fair industrial rela 
tions. Accordingly the Bank paid the entire amount of special allow 
ance payable to the concerned employee under Bipartite Settlement of 
1966 and transferred him to India Exchange Office with effect from 27th 
November , 1969. The vacancy created by the said transfer at the : 
Coliege Street Branch was replaced by one Sri Jhapsi Ram Bari from 
India Exchange Office who is entitled to Peon - Cum - Daftry work on the 
basis of seniority of service in category of Pleons in the group of 
subordinate staffs of Bank s services. This transfer was effected in 
terms of the demand of the sponsoring Union for implementing city 

wise seniority in the Bank s service ." 
6 . The transfer to the Indian Exchange branch caused to the workman depriva 
tion of the daftry allowance of Rs. 15 / - per month , because he was posted in the 
said branch merely as a Cash peon . This raised the present industrial dispute . It 
should be noted that the management categorically denied the charge of mala fides 
in effecting the transfer of the concerned workman from College Street branch to 
the Indian Exchange branch . 

7 . In the written statement filed on behalf of the workmen represented by 
Bank of Baroda Staff Union . It was stated in paragraph 3 as follows : 
“ That the management evaded the claim of Sri C . R . Kundu for more than 

two years , but after a hard pressure from Sri Kundu , the manage 
ment paid him a lumpsum amount of Rs. 969. 15 , the whole arrears of 
his claim for about 31 months, and victimised Shri Kundu by transfer 
ring him from College Street Branch of the Bank to India Exchange 
Branch in order to forfeit his aforesaid special allowance. The trans 
fer was made with effect from 25th of November 1969 and Shri 

Kundu s status was lowered from Daftary to an ordinary peon ." 
It was further stated in paragraph 5 of the said written statement : 
“ That without prejudice to our above contention , even if Sri Kundu was not 

a permanent incumbent for the said special allowance , and the 
management for the first time introduced a special allowance at their 
College Street Branch of the Bank , preference for re-allocating the 
duties ought to have been given to Shri Kundu by virtue of the provi 
sion contained in Clause 5 . 13 of the Settlement dated 10th October , 

1966 ." 
The transfer was condemned by the workmen as having the effect of lowering 
the status of the concerned workman and forfeiting of the special allowance , in an 
improper and unjustified manner , with a view to victimise him . 

8 . Paragraph 5 . 13 of the bipartite settlement, mentioned in paragraph 5 of the 
written statement of workmen , deals with re -allocation of duties and provides for 
the following things : 
" ( a ) Standardisation of nomenclature should not by itself lead to withdrawal 

of special allowance from persons already drawing them excepting 

where specifically provided in the sett ement. 
(b ) Subject to what is stated in (a ) above , liberty to banks to re -allocate 

duties. 
( c ) Where for the first time a special allowance is introduced in an office, in 

re - allocating the duties preference will be given from amongst those who 

were already performing the appropriate duties. 
By way of explanation it is stated : 
" In cases where a workman is not in receipt of a special allowance on the 

date of settlement has been performing duties / responsibilities which 


SEC. 3 ( ü ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


105 


will now . attract the special allowance in terms of this settlement banks . 
will be free to withdraw such duties / responsibilities * * alternatively 
guch workmen may be required to portorm , it necessary, by re -alloca 
tion the duties - responsibilities which attract the special allowance and 

in that case the appropriate special allowance will be payable to him ." 
9 . On behalf of the management, Sudam Kumar Das , an officer of the Bank gaye 
evidence . He admitted that the concerned workman was at Arst appointed as a mere 
Peon without any additional duties . Thereafter, at the College Street Branch he 
was entrusted with the additional duties to be performed by Cash -peon - cum -daftry . 
Although appointed as a daftry , the workman was not at first paid the special 
allowance for daftry and this is expressly admitted by the bank s witness in the 
tollowing language ; 
" There wag delay in arranging for special allowance to Kundu for a consi . 

derable time. Thereafter the cause of Kundu was espoused by a trade 
union of the name of Calcutta Staff Association , which demanded pay 
ment of special allowance to Kundu . At last the special allowance WAS 
paid to Kundu in jump sum covering the period already worked by 


him ." 


About the reason for transferring the concerned workman from College Street 
Branch to India Exchange Branch , this witness stated that the trade union known 
as the Staff Association was pursuing a two- fold demand at the same time, namely 
while insisting upon payment of special allowance to Kundu , the union was also 
insisting upon the demand that special allowance should be paid on the basis of 
city -wise seniority so far as daftries were concerned . The Bank conceded to the 
demand of the union . The witness further explained that this concession was 
made not to please the Staff Association but to arrive at a more scientific basis for 
payment of speclal allowance . As a result of the basis of city -wise seniority for 
payment of special allowance to daftaries , Kundu was transferred from College 
Street Branch and one Jhapsi Ram , who was senior to him , was fitted in his place . 
In answer to a question put in cross -examination this witness answered : 
" Ques ; What was the interest of service which required the management 

to transfer the concerned workman from College Street to Indian 

Exchange branch ? 
Ans : This was done in order to post Jhapsi Ram who was senior tę Kundu 

on city - wise seniority basis ." 
On behall of the workmen , the concerned workman himself deposed . He did not 
dispute that Jhapsi Ram was senior to him . He speciAcally admitted that there 
was no enmity between himself and the management. He further admitted that 
there was nobody Junior to him who was drawing daftry allowance, save and 
except one person at Sodepur branch , who was drawing daftry allowance temporari 
ly . The concerned workman , however , did not want to be transferred to Sodepur 
branch , in order to be entitled to daftry allowance there. About the mala fides of 
the management this workman only said as follows: 
" I suspect that I was transferred because I became a member of the Staff 

Union . Apart from this I cannot suggest any other mala fides on the 

part of the management." 
About the suggestion of the management that the workman got benefits of special 
allowance at the Intervention of the Staff Association and only after he had rea 
lised that the demand of the Stall Association for payment of daftry allowance to 
senior men was going to hurt him , he joined the Staff Union , a rival trade union , 
which had begun to agitate for retention of special allowance for the concerned 
workman , although the management had conceded to the more scientific demand 
for payment of daftry allowance to senior men only , this witness stated as follows: 
" I approached the Staff Union for the Arst time in the year 1969 , may be in 

month of May . Prior to that I had placed my grievance to the Staff 
Union in May 1969. Prior to that I was not a member of any other 
trade union , I do not know what talk the Staff Association had with 
the management apart from the matters contained in my two letters 
to them . I cannot say whether the Staff Association had arranged for 

payment of special allowance to myself." 
This is the sum total of the oral evidence that I need bear in mind : 

10 . Now , law ag regards transfer has been several times restated by the Supreme 
Court. In Canara Banking Corporation Limited vs . Vittal, ( 1963 ) II L . L . J. 354 , the 
Supreme Court observed (Das Gupta, J speaking); 
" The management of the bank is in the best position to judge how to distri 

bute its man power and whether a particular transfer can be avolded 


106 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ Part Il 


- 


" 


" 


- 


- - 


or not. It 19 not possible for industrial tribunals to have before them 
all the materials which are relevant for this purpose and even if these 
could be made available , the (Hbunals are by no means suited for 
making decisions in matters of this nature . That is why it would 
ordinarily be proper for industrial adjudication to accept as correct 
any submission by the management of the bank that an impugned , 
transfer has been made only because it was found unavoidable . The 
one exception to this statement is where there is reason to believe that 
the management of the bank resorted to the transfer mala fide, by 
way of victimisation , unfair labour practice or some other uterior 

motive , not connected with the business interests of the bank . 
Also , in the case of Sindicate Bank Limited vs its workmen , ( 1966 ) I LL. J ., 440, the 
Supreme Court observed (Ramaswami, J speaking ) ; 
" There is no doubt that the banks are entitled to decide on a consideration 

of the necessities of banking business whether the transfer of an 
employee should be made to a particular branch . There is also no 
doubt that the management of the bank is in the best position to 
judge how to distribute the employecs between the different branches. 
We should be very careful before they interfer with the orders made 
by the banks in discharge of their managerial function . It is truc 
that if an order of transfer is mademala fide or for some ulterior pur 
pose , like punishing an employee for his trade union activities , the in 
dustrial tribunals should interfere and set aside such an order of trans 
fer , because the mala fide exercise of power is not considered to be 
the legal exercise of the power given by law . But the Anding of mala 
fide should be reached by industrial tribunals only if there is suffi 
cient and proper evidence in support of the finding . Such a finding 
should not be reached capriciously or on flimsy grounds as the indus 
trial tribunal has done in the present case . This view is borne out by 
the decision of this Court in Bareilly Electririty Supply Company, 

Ltd . v Sirajuddin and others ( 1060 -1 L . L . J. 566 ).” 
It may also be noted that in the Sastri Award it was provided that workmen must 
not be transferred beyond his language arca . 

11 . In this particular case , it appears , from the oral evidence hereinbefore set 
out, that the Stat Association was agitating for a demand that daſtry allowance 
should oniy be vaid on the basis of city -wise seniority. It is admitted that Bank 
had conceded io lhe demand . In doing so , the management acted wively , because 
to deprive senior man of special allowance and to allow such allowance to Junjor 
men may lead to " pick and choose " policy or nepotism . By coll eding to this 
demand, the management conceded oniy to a just demand . It further uppe Is I om 
Exts, 6 and 11 that therc might have been labour dispute if the concerned workman 
had been retained at the College Street Branch with a special allowance . The 
management therefore , tollowed wise administrative wisdom in transferring th : 
concerned workman to another branch and Alling up the void by importing a 
senior man to College Street branch . In that view , there is nothing m the charge 
that the transfer of the concerned workman had been mala fide effected or effected 
without justification . 

12 The next question for my consideration is although the transfer may have 
been justiflect, whether the deprivation of special allowance was also justified Now 
the definition of wages in Section 2 ( r ) of the industrial Disputes Act includes 
" allowance (inc ,uding dearness allowance ) as the workinan is for the fine being 
entitled to " . IL WAS contended that the special allowance was part cf the wages 
and the transfer was affecting the workmen prejudicially inasmuch as it depriver 
the concerned workman 01 the part of his wages. This argument necessitates some 
examination of the nature of the special allowance payable to daftries . The open 
ing words of paragraph 53 of the hipartite settlement are couched in the follow 
ing language : 
" In supersession of paragraph 5 . 326 of the Desai award , the special allowance 

payable to members ot the subordinate staff for duties / responsibilities 
As listed in Part II of Appendix B hereto shall be as follows . . . , 


The special allowance is thus basically a duty allowance . At the Indian Exchange 
branch there was another peon who was performing the duties of a daftry . The con 
cerned workman was not performing these duties. If the allowance was basically a 
duty allowance and therefore part of his wages , the concerned workman could 
not claim the allowance without such duties. It was not his case that he had a 
right to perform the duties. The case was that he had right to the allowance , 
Hilties or no duties. This argument I cannot uphold . 


Sec . 3 ( ü ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , - 1921 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 


105 


13 . In the yiew that I take, I hold , that the action of the management of Bank 
of Baroda in transferring Sti C . R . Kundu from the post of Cash -peon - cum - daftry 
at College Street branch to the post of peon at the India Exchange branch with 
effect from 25th November, 1969 was justified . This transfer led to the withdrawal 
of duties of daftry from him , because there was somebody else who was perform 
ing these duties , and consequently withdrawal of special daftry allowance from him . 
That Act also was justified . The workman is , therefore , not antitled to any relief 
This is my award . 

(Sd.) B . N . BANERJEE , 

Presiding Officer . 
Dated , November 28 , 1970 . 

[ No.23 / 29 / 70 /LRIII) 


in these dutiestry from his 1989 wast ut peono mt the post one cmar 


New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 
S . O . 79 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 
of 1,947 ) the Central Government hereby publishes the following Award oť the 
Central Government Labuor Court, Bombay in respect of a complaint under section 
33A of the sald Act Aled by Shri Aubrey DeSylva , Flight Purser , Air India , Bom 
bay , which was received by the Central Government on 16th December , 1970 , 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT LABOUR COURT, BOMBAY 

APPLICATION No. LCB- 38 OF 1965 
PARTIES ; 
Shri Aubrey DeSylva , Complainant . 

Versus 
Air India , Opp . Party . 
PRESENT : - - 

Shri A . T . Zambre , Presiding Oncer . 


APPEARANCES . 
For the complainant. — Shri B . H . Buch , Advocate, with Shri N , C . Mukherjee, 

Chairman , Air Corporation Employees Union , Bombay . 
For the opposite party . Shri S . D . Vimadalal, Counsei, with Shri S . K . 

Wadia . Solicitor , Shri A . S . Banavalikar , Personnel Manager and Shri 

PM . Thakur, Assistant Personnel Manescr . 
Sii. Iaharashira . 

INDL slāY : Alr Seryice 
Bombay, the 20th November 1970 

AWARD 
This is a complaint by an employee of the Air India Corporation dated 18in 
August , 1965 under section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act which was originally 
filca before the National Industrial Tribunal presided over by Shri G . D . Khoslo 
beloro whoin the judustrial dispute Ref. No N . I. T . No. 1 of 1964 was pending and 
which was subsequently transferred to th s Labour Court under section 33B of the 
ACL and was numbered as ICB -No 38 of 1965 . 

2 . The complainant Shri A . DeSylva was in the employ of the Air India Cor 
poration (hereinafter referred to as the Corporation ) since 1956 and was working 
as a member of the cabin crew . He was first appointed as an Assistant Flight 
Purser on 4th February , 1956 and after his confirmation was permanently posted 
in London for about three years Thereafter he was reposted to Bombay and was 
promoted to the post of flight purser and was confirmed on 1st April, 1961 in the 
grede of Rs. 350 — 25 — 550 — 50 — 650 and was working as such in the same grade till 
his servicrs were teiminalerī by the Corporation 5y their letter dated 12 / 14th April, 
1965 . The Corporation had not given in the letter the reasons for his termination 
and hence by his letter dated 21st June , 1965 the complainant requested the 
inanagement to furnish him with the reasons but the Corporation did not inform 
him the reasons in their reply letter dated 22nd July , 1965 but had stated that he 
was aware of the reasons. They had also stated that they did not give the reasons 
because the reaons if disclosed would have been detrimental to his interests . 
Thereupon the workman again wrote to the Corporation by his letter dated 11th 
August, 1965 and Aled this complaint. 


108 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 Part II 


3 . The complainant has alleged that throughout his employment with the res 
pondent ho had performed his duties diligently , taithtyily and honestly and he had 
a clean record. Hie work was satisfactory and he had earned all annual 
increments regularly . The last increment was given to him on 1st April, 
1965 that is only a few days before the termination of his sorvices by their letter 
dated 12 / 14th April , 1966 . The management terminated his gorylces with imme 
diate effect and he was asked to collect his salary in lieu of notice and other dues 
and this action smacked of vindictiveness and foul play on the part of the manage 
ment. It is alleged that the order which purports to offer salarly in leu of one 
month s notice is a colourable exercise of the powers and is a clock and a cover 
for inflicting punishment and is mala fide and the same has been made with a view 
to circumventing the observance of the principles of natural justice . 


4 . The complainant hag further alleged that if he was a workman concerned 
in the industrial dispute proceedings between the Corporation and its workmen 
which was pending betore the National Industrial Tribunal in Ref. No. 1 of 1964 
and it was obligatory on the part of the Corporation to make an application for 
approval before the Tribunal under section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act. 
No such approval has been obtained nor has an application been made and the 
Corporation has contravened the provişions oť section 33 . Therefore the Corpora 
tion should be directed to reinstate the complainant with the full back wages 
and allowances and an award should be made accordingly . 

5 . The Corporation has by its written statement denied the allegations and has 
opposed the complaint application both on technical and other pleas. It has 
admitted that the services of the complainant were terminated by letter dated 
12th / 14th April, 1965 with effect from 15th April, 1965 but it has contended that 
Under regulation 48 of the Air India Employees Service Regulations the Corpora 
tion has the power to terminate the services of a permanent employee by giving 
him 30 days notice in writing or pay in lieu of notice without assigning any reason 
and the services of the complainant were terminated under that provision as the 
Corporation had lost confidence in the complainant for good and suficient reasons, 


6 . The Corporation has denied the allegation that the termination of the services 
of the complainant was a clock and a cover for inflicting punishinent mala fide 
and that the termination was made with a view to circumventing the observance 
of the principles of natural justice. It is contended that the termination of the 
scervices of the complaint being under regulation 48 was termination simpliciter 
It was not by way of any punishment for misconduct and the principles of natural 
justice applicable to cases of discharge or dismissal for misconduct have no appli 
cation in the rresent case . Similarly the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) which 
requires the Aling of an application for approval in cases of discharge or dismissal 
for misconduct are not applicable to the termination of service of the applicant 
and there is no question of breach of the provisions of section 33 and there can 
be no invocation of section 33A and the compiaint should be dismissed . 

7. After the transfer of the complaint to this Court the complainant filed a 
rejoinder by which he has inter alia challenged the constitutionality of Regulation 
48 . The corporation had Aled a reply containing that the regulations were 
binding as contracts and that the Court has no jurisdiction to entertain such a plea 
about the vires of the regulation . Subsequently the complainant made an appli 
çation for directing the management to give him particulars about the reasons for 
his termination . The Corporation opposed the same contending that unless the 
complainant discharged his initial burden for invoking the provisions of section 
33A this Court has no juriediction to enter into the dispute and the justifiability 
or otherwise of the order of termination of his services . The complainant s case 
was that an industrial dispute was pending before the Nationa . Industrial Tribunal 
The Corporation did not make any application for approval and it was clear that 
the Corporation had committed a breach of section 33 and after hearing and 
parties at length I had by my Order dated 13th March 1968 framed issues and had 
given the necessary directions about particulars and onus of proof. The Corpora 
tion was not satisfied about the order regarding particulars and had preferred a 
writ petition No. CA 1048 of 1988 in the High Court of Bombay . This application 
was decided by their Lordships of the Bombay High Court by their judgment dated 
3rd October , 1968 . Though in substance the application was dismissed their Lord 
ships had modifed my order regarding the items of particulars and the Corpora 
tion was directed to give particulars only regarding Items ( a ) and (b ). 

8 . After the receipt of the judgment notices were issued and the Corporation 
was directed by crder dated 29th July , 1969 to give the particulars within a 
month which period was extended from time to time as the Corporation wanted 
to go in appeal to the Supreme Court. The Corporation s application for leave 


- - 


- 


- 


Sec. 3(ü ):) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 109 
- - - - - - - 

- - - 
to appeal was rejected by the Bombay High Court. Thereafter they made a 
petition to the Supreme Court for special leave to appeal which was also rejected . 
Thereafter the Corporation pursuant to the order regarding particulars submitted 
aj affidavit of the Assistant Personnel Officer Shri P . V . Bhagwat giving the parti 
culars . But the Corporacion did not produce the documents nor copies leferred 
to in the said affidavit and wrongly stated that they have produced them . After 
some correspondence the Corporation gave Inspection of all the confidential docu 
ments to the complainant and his representative and also produced copies in Court 
invoking the provisions of section 21 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 

9 . In support of his complaint the complainant has examined himself and one 
Shri Aubrey Pinto , The Corporation led the evidence of the Commercial Manager 
Shri Narendranath Diwan who was formerly holding the post of Deputy Inspector of 
Police Rajasthan and had also worked as Deputy Director of Revenue Intelligence , 
Ministry of Finance, (Government of India ) . The Corporation has also examined wit 
ness Sukhtankar and both parties have produced number of documents . These issues 
arising for my determination in the complaint are as follows: 

( 1) Whether the complaint under section 33A is maintainable . 
( 2 ) Whether the order of termination is a cloak for punishment inflicted 

mala fide ? 
( 3 ) Whether there is a contravention of section 33 ? 
( 4 ) Whether the regulation 48 is binding on the parties as a contract ? 
( 5 ) Whether the Court has jurisdiction to try the contention that Service 

Regulation No. 48 is ultra vires of the Constitution ? If yes , whether 

regulation 48 Is ultra vires the constitution as alleged ? 
(6 ) Whether the action of the employer is justified ? If not to what reief 

the applicant is entitled ? 
10 . The learned Counsel Shri Vimadalal has at the outset submitted that the 
present proceedings have been started by a complaint under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act . It is not a reference under section 10 of the Act and 
unless the complainant discharges the initia . burden providing contravention of 
section 33 this Court will have no jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the complaint. 
Prior to my order dated 13th March , 1968 regarding onus of proof, particulars etc ., 
it was contended by the applicant that he had discharged the initial burden re 
garding contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) by the admitted facts about the pen 
Gency of the proceedings and the termination of his service without approval of 
the Tribunal. In my order I had held that the application contained merely the 
allegations and it was for the applicant to prove the contravention of section 
33 ( 2 ) ( b ) by the employers and as the applicant was seeking the assistance of this 
Court to prove the same I had ordered the Corporation to furnish him the parti 
culars and the reasons for the termination of his service. In my order I had 
quoted the observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1958 1 LLJ 
page 793 ( Equitable Coal Co . Ltd V . Algu Singh and others ) in respect of breach 
of the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) by the emp . oyers as a condition precedent for 
the exercise of the jurisdiction by the Court and in my opinion it is clear that 
11 is for the applicant to establish his contention that the employer has committed 
a breach of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ), Contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) (bi is the very founda 
tion for the exercise of the power to adjudicate and only on such proof this Court 
will have jurisdiction to adjudicate upon the complaint meaning that the Court 
can thereafter treat the proceedings as a reference and investigate and find 
whether the termination of service was justified or not. The first three issues 
are interlinked and findings on them in favour of the complainant will invest this 
Court with the jurisdiction to investigate and adjudicate whether the termination 
was justified or not and I shall Arst take up these three issues for my discussion . 

11. Learned Counsel for the applicant has argued that the right of the employers 
to terminate the services of the employee arbitrarily without reasons whenever 
they pleased a right which has been referred to in various cases as a right to 
hire and fre - has been restricted and modiAed by the various decisions of the 
Supreme Court. Learned Counsel has also invited my attention to the ruling in 
which it has been stated that 
" It is too late in the day for the employer to raise the claim to hire and 

fire an employee as the employer pleases and completely negative the 

security of service . " 
and the whole trend of the argument was as if the employer has no more any 
power to terminate the services of an employee by notice under the contract of 
Service without complying with the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act and even in such cases there would be a contravention of section 


TO 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [PART IL 


- 


33 ( 2 ) (b ) If no approval of the Tribunal lę sought. It is argued that the Corpora 
tion has terminated the services of the applicant offering him one month s salary 
without following the proper procedure and has committed a breach of section 
33 ( 2 ) (b ). 

12 . I do not think that the termination of the service of an employee by 
notice under the terms of contract without holding any enquiry were will auto 
matically bring the action of the management within the purview of section 33 
and can be presumed to be contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the act . An em 
ployer may be impelled to terminate the service of an employee and part company 
by giving notice for various reasons and every such case will not be covered by 
Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) . The relevant portion of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) is as follows : --- 
" During the pendency of any such proceeding in respect of an industrial 

dispute the employer may in accordance with the standing urders 
applicable to the workman concerned in such dispute or where 
there are no such standing orders according to the terms of contract 
whether express or implied between him and the workman , 


( a ) * 


( b ) for any misconduct not connected with the dispute discharge or punish 

whether by dismissal or otherwise that workman provided that no 
such workman shall be discharged or dismissed unless he has been 
paid wages for one month and an application has been made by the 
employer to the authority before which the proceeding is pending 

for approval of the action taken by the employer " , 
A close reading of this section will show that the approval of the authority is 
necessary only when the discharge dismissal or punishment is imposed as a 
result of some misconduct not connected with the dispute and in case the termi 
nation of service is not by way of punishment for a misconduct the action of 
the management will be outside the scope of section 33 and there will be no 
necessity to seek the approval of the authority. 

13 . Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the applicant has relied upon the 
rulings reported in 1965 1 LLJ 422 (Murugan Mills Ltd ., and Industrial Tribunal , 
Madras, and another ) and 1965 1 LLJ 612 (Hindusthan Motors Ltd ., and Mahendra 
Singh Dhantwal others ) and has argued that in these rulings also there were 
complaints under section 33A and the employers had taken a similar contention 
that the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) were not attracted to a case of discharge 
simplicitor . The Industrial Tribunal had allowed the complaint and directed 
reinstatement and the writ petition against that award was dismissed . The 
learned Counsel has invited my attention to the oft quoted observations of their 
Lordships of the Supreme Court in respect of the powers of Industrial Tribunals 
to interfere with the orders of the employers terminating the services of the 
employees by notice under the contract of service or standing orders . I have 
carefully gone through these rulings and I do not think that these rulings support 
the applicant s version that a complaint under section 33A would be maintain 
able and the Court will be entitled to treat the complaint as if it were a reference 
unless the termiation of service is proved as a punishment for some misconduct . 

14 . The learned Counsel has lgid stress on the observations in the rulings re 
ported in 1965 1 LLJ page 422 (Murugan Mills Ltd ., and Industrial Tribunal, 
Madras and others ) where in it has been observed : 
" The right of the employer to terminate the services of his workman under 

the standing orders by giving a notice or by paying him wages in 
Jieu of such notice which amounts to claim to hire and fire an em 
ployee as the cmployer pleases and thus completely negative security 
of service which has been secured through industrial adjudication 
was considered by the Labour Appellate Tribunal in 1951 II LLI 
314 and the view taken therein has been approved by the decision 
of the Supreme Court in 1960 II LLJ 222 and 1962 1 LLJ 374 . Even 
in such a case the requirement of bona fides is essential. If the 
termination of service is a colourable exercise of the power or as a 
result of victimisation of unfair labour practice the industạial tribunal 
Would have the jurisdiction to intervene and set aside such termina 

tion ." 
These observations clearly show the powers of the Tribunal while dealing with 
on Industrial dispute about the termination of an employee by notice . However, 
they clearly presuppose that the dispute had been referred to the Tribunal 
in a reference under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It is signjficant 
to remember that all the cases referred to in the above observations are in 
respect of awards passed in reference under section 10 of Industrial Disputes 


Sec . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 


WIB 


Act and a Labour Court in which a complaint has been filed under section 33A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act will have no jurisdiction to treat the complaint 
as a reference unless the condition precedent about the contravention of section 
33 ( 2 ) (b ) as stated in the ruling in 1958 1 LLJ 793 Equitable Coal Co , Ltd . V . and 
Algu Singh is satisfied . 

15 . Even though in the above ruling the employee had filed a complaint under 
section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act it is clear from the judginent that 
their Lordships came to the conclusion that though the termination of service 
was under the standing orders by a notice in fact it was by way of punishment 
for misconduct . Their Lordships have observed : - 
" The form therefore used in the present case for terminating respondent s 

services under clause 17 ( a ) is not conclusive and Tribunal was 
justified in enquiring into the reasons which led to such termina 
tion ; even the standing orders provide that an employee can ask 
for reasons in such a case . Those reasons were given before the 
Tribunal by the appellant viz ., the respondent services were termi 
nated because he deliberately adopted go - slow and was negligent in 
the discharge of his duty . His services were therefore terminated 
for dereliction of duty and go - slow in his work . This clearly 
amounted to punishment for misconduct and therefore to pass an 
order under clausc 17 ( a ) of the standing orders in such circumstances 
was clcarly a colourable exercise of the power to terminate the ser 

vices of a workman under the provision of the standing orders ." 
I have already observed that it was a case in which the employee was discharged 
under the standing orders and the observations clearly show that according to 
their Lordships even in such a case the requirements of bona fides were essen 
tial presumably for the justification of the termination of service . 

16 . The judgment in the other ruling 1965 1 LLJ 612 ( Hindustan Motors Ltd .. 
and Mahendra Singh Dhantwal and Others ) also will show that his Lordship 
considered the circumstances showing the mala Ades of the employers and had 
found that the reasons for the termination of service must have been the old 
reason for dismissal and only the procedure adopted was a new procedure to 
achieve the old objective and thus in effect the termination of service was for a 
previous misconduct . On the contrary in the head note in this ruling it has been 
observed : 
" Dismissing the writ petition preferred by the employer against such award , 

held ; 
It might be correct that discharge simpliciter in terms of service contract 

and unconnected with any intention to penalize would not fall within 
the mischief of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 , 
and that no approval under the provision there to would be necessary 
in the case of such termination , " 


and thus it is clear that for a contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act the termination of service must be by way of punishment for mis 
conduct. 


17 . Shri Vimadalal the learned Counsel on behalf of the Corporation has relled 
upon the ruling reported in 1964 1 LLJ pagc 624 (National Machinery Manufacture 
Co .,) and Vyas ( P . D .) 1969 II LLJ 799 ( Tata Engineering Loco Co .,) and has 
argued that when a complaint has been Aled before a Court under section 33A 
the Court may investigate the matter and go behind the order. But unless it 
is proved that the termination of service is by way of punishment for misconduct 
the complaint cannot be treated as a reference and the Court will have no juris 
diction to adjudicate the dispute . The learned Counsel has invited my attention 
to the following observations of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 1969 
II LLJ 799 ( Tata Engineering and Locomotive Co. Ltd ., and Prasad S . C . and 
another ) : 
" In the case of workman Rai Manohar Dubey accepting the contention on 

behalf of the management that the tribunal was not in the instant 
case entitled to come to the conclusion that the company s order was 
either mala Ade or was passed to victimize the workmen or was in 
substance an order of dismissal held that under standing order 47 of 
the company it had power to terminate the services of Dubeyon 
giving him a month s notice and wages in lieu of such notice . It is 
correct that such an order of discharge simpliciter is not conclusive 


112 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [PANT I 


and determine whether the termination is in fact discharge simpliciter 
or dismissal though the order is one of simple termination of service . 
If it is satisfied that the order is punitive or mala fide or is made to 
victimize the workman or amounts to unfair labour practice , it is 
competent to set it aside. The test is whether the act of the emp 

loyer is bona fide or not." 
From these observations also it is clear that it is only when the discharge simpli 
citer gives rise to an industrial dispute the Tribunal adjudicating the dispute has 
got the powers stated herein . In view of the decisions of their Lordships in the 
rulings in Equitable Coal Co. Ltd ., etc ., it cannot be disputed that unless the 
complainant proves the contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) by the employer the 
complaint cannot be adjudicated by the Court. From the provisions of section 
33A it is clear that the discharged employee who is agerieved by such contraven 
tion has to make a complaint in writing and it is only on receipt of such a comp 
laint the Labour Court shall act upon the complaint as if it were a dispute 
referred to it under section 10 . 

18 . This point has been specifcally made clear by their Lordships of the 
Bombay High Court in the ruling reported in 1964 1 LLJ 624 in which their 
Lordships considered the wording and construction of the section in details 
grammatically and have obseryed : - - 
" Grammatically it would seem clear that the clause " for any misconduct " 

qualified the verb dischargę, dismiss or punish used in the said sub 
clause . The words " such workman " in the proviso refers to such 
workman as is referred to in clause (b ) i.e ., one who has been dis 

charged or is being punished for misconduct . 
In the Judgment it has been further observed : 
" In our view , with respect , section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) can have no application to a 

case of discharge unless it is for inisconduct." 
Considering these observations it shall have to be held that in the present case 
the complainant shall have first to prove that in terminating his services the 
Corporation has in fact discharged him for misconduct under the garb of discharge 
simpliciter and has contravened the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) and hence the 
complaint is maintainable . 

19 . It is not in dispute that the applicant was in service with the Corporation 
since 1956 and his services were terminated by the Corporation by a letter dated 
12 / 14 - 4 - 1965 with effect from 15 - 4 - 1965. They had not chargesheeted him nor 
held an enquiry . The letter terminating his services reads as follows: 
Dear Sir, 
It has been decided to terminate your services which we hereby do with 

Immediate effect. You will be pald one month s salary in lieu of 

notice. 
Please arrange to return , as early as possible , all items of uniforms etc ., 

that were issued to you by the Corporation , to enable us to settle 

your account. 
Your account will be settled after checking your commitments ." 


The Corporation has contended that the service of the complainant was terminated 
under regulation 48 which provides in effect that the services of a permanent 
employee may be terminated without assigning any reasons by giving him 30 days 
notice in writing or pay in lieu of notice , and if we look to the text of the letter 
the Corporation has simply terminated his service and primafçie it is termination 
simpliciter . 


20 . However It has been held in various rulings such as 1960 1 LLJ 587 ( 1963 ) 
( 1 LLJ) 422 that the words used in the order of discharge and the form which it 
may have taken are not conclusive in the matter and the Industrial Tribunal 
would be entitled to go behind the words and the form to And the reasons which 
led to the order and then consider and decide whether the discharge is a discharge 
" Bimpliciter or not . If it appears that the purported exercise of the power terminat 
Ing the seryices of the employee was in fact the result of a misconduct alleged 
against the employee there despite its appearance to the contrary the order of 
discharge will be in effect an order of dismissel by way of punishment and in view 
of these observations I shall discuss the evidence to find whether the applicant 
was discharge from service as a punishment for some disconduct under a garb 
of discharge simpliciter . 


ŞEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


113 


21. After the dismissal of the writ petition Aled by the Corporation in the 
Bombay High Court and the receipt of the papers I had directed the Corporation 
to furnish the applicant particulars about the reasons for the termination of 
service and in compliance the Corporation has Aled an affidavit of the Assistant 
Personnel Officer and produced the correspondence requesting the Tribunal to 
treat the correspondence as confidential. From the particulars and correspondence 
It appears that the service of the complainant were terminated by the Corporation 
under the following circumstances: 
In or about February / March 1965 the Corporation received a communica 

tion from the Director of Revenue Intelligence , Government of India 
viz ., the letter dated 27th February 1965 addressed by Shri N . N . 
Dewan , Deputy Director , himself to Mr, G . B . Patwa, Chief Security 
Omcer enclosing a note on the smuggling activities of the complainant 
and stating that such persons were a security risk from all points of 
view and that he hoped it would be possible for the Corporation to 
weed out such undesirable persons who are bound to bring a slur 
on the good name of the organisation . This correspondence naturally 
led to the corporation losing confidence in the complainant and they 

had no option but to terminate the services of the complainant, 
The Corporation had examined their Commercial Manager Shri Dewan and their 
Administrative Manager Shri Sukhtankar and have also proved the correspondence . 
Though at first it was requested to treat the documents as confidential at the 
time of arguments Shri Vimadalal learned Counsel on behalf of the Corporation 
submitted that he had received the necessary authority to state that the documents 
may be referred to in the judgment. 

22. The most important letter in the correspondence is exhibit El and the 
information note about the smmuggling activities attached to it. In thls letter 
which is dated 27th February 1965 Shri Dewan has stated : 
" I enclose for your information a note on the smuggling activities of Aubrey 

D Sllva, a purser of Air India . 
Needless to say that such persons are a security risk from all points of 

view . I hope it will be possible for Air India to weed out such 
undesirable persons who are bound to bring a slur on the good name 

of the organization ." 
The note attached to this letter mentions the smuggling activities and some instan 
ces in which the applicant was involved . In paras 2 to 5 of this note it has been 
stated : 
2 . There was reliable information with us that this Aubrey D Silva was 

smuggling into India large quantities of diamonds and gold from 

Beirut whenever he used to go over there as a Aying crew , 
3 . Information was also on hand that he was smuggling out to Beirut the 

sale proceeds of the smuggling goods when he used to go there on 

duty as a flying crew . 
4 . On a specific information this Aubrey D Silva was bringing 5 Kilos of 

gold on 23rd December 1962 from Beirut a watch was kept at Santa 
Cruz Airport. The fight by which he was coming as an Assistant 
Flight Purser was delayed and arrived on 24th December 1962 and 
there was another batch of crew on board this Aight. Before he could 
be searched he managed to throw the contraband viz .. 5 kilogrammes 
of gold valued over Rs. 50 ,000 below a sofa in the Customs Exami 

nation Hall from where it was recovered latter . 
5 Therc is also reliable information on hand that even after this incident 

of 24th December 1962 Aubrey D Silva was in close contact with the 
Beirut Syndicate of smugglers and had in fact Introduced to them 

another Assistant Flight Purser ." 
Shri Dewan who has written the letter and the note had been examined by the 
Corporation . He had proved these documents and his evidence show that the 
Information is from the most confidential documents of the revenue intelligence . 
About the Ales and the note Shri Dewan has stated that the note contained as 
much of information as could be passed on to Air Indla confidentially and that 
the original reports contained much more than had been passed on to Air India 
confldentially . 


23 , Shri Diwan has stated that as Deputy Director of Revenue Intelligence he 
visited Bombay quite often and sometimes Shri Patwa the Chief Security Officer 


114 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


of Air India had also met him in Delhi and during one of their meetings Shri 
Patwa had mentioned to him about the case of the recovery of Indian hemp from 
Air India aircraft and in that talk about the hemp case the name of Shri DeSylva 
had come up and at that time he told Shri Patwa that Shri DeSylva had come to 
the adverse notice of the Revenue Intelligence on a number of occasions and 
Shri Patwa had requested him to send him a note about Shri DeSylva and as a 
result Shri Dewan had sent the note . There is no question of Shri Dewan stating 
anything falsely against Shri DeSylva and it shall have to be held that according 
to the Revenue Intelligence record the complainant Shri DeSylva engaged himself 
in smuggling activities while acting as a purser as member of the crew and when 
Shri Patwa heard from Shri Dewan about such activities and character of the 
member of the crew it was quite proper on the part of the Patwa as a Security 
Officer to request Shri Diwan to send the information , 

24 . From the correspondence produced it is further clear that after the receipt 
of the confidential and secret information from the Revenue Intelligence Shri 
Patwa the Chief Security Officer of the Corporation wrote a letter on 2nd March 
1965 to the General Manager citing additional instances in which the applicant 
Shri DeSylva was noticed adversely in smuggling activities, The Security Oncer 
also enclosed the letter and the note from the Deputy Director, Revenue Intelli 
gence Ministry of Finance , the Security Oncer also sent coples to the Commercial 
Manager , Administration . After receipt of the letter the General Manager invited 
comments from the concerned higher officers such as Commercial Manager , 
Administration , the Personnel Commercial Director etc., and then consulted them . 

25 . The Corporation has produced the reply from the Commercial Manager at 
exhibit E - 3 which shows why the Corporation was induced to part company with 
the complainant. The letter reads : 
" I refer to Patwa s letter No. SO / 11- 1 / 9802 of March 2 to you on the above 

subject, 
Mr. D Silva is a bad character , and it is essential in the interests of the 

Corporation that we should part company with him . I am very 
anxious that we should dispense with his services with as little delay 

as possible , 
If we have to secure the permission of the Chairman of the National Indus 

trial Tribunal we should be grateful if Head Office could kindly take 

necessary action without delay," 
The General Manager accepted the opinion expressed and sought advice from the 
head office , how to terminate the services of the complainant. His endorsement 
reads : 

" H .O . (Head Office ) please advise how to do this ." 
Shri Sukhtankar , Manager , Administration who has been examined by the Cor 
poration thereupon consulted Shri S . S . Khambatta who was the senior partner of 
Messrs . Mulla and Mulla Solicitors of the Corporation . He has stated that he 
showed the correspondence to Shri Khambatta and asked him his advice as to the 
procedure to be followed regarding termination of service of Shri De Sylva and 
after discussion wrote a note to the General Manager , 

26 . This note exhibit E - 4 shows that the solicitor advised the Corporation that 
It would be in order to terminate the services of Shri De Sylva under Regulation 
48 of the Service Regulations without assigning any reason and after giving him 
30 days notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof. It further shows that Megsrs. 
Mulla and Mulla stated that this would not attract the provision of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) 
of the Industrial Disputes Act and that no reference need be made to the National 
Industrial Tribunal if the services are terminated under Regulation 48 , and thus 
after consulting the solicitors the General Manager took further steps and the 
services of the applicant were terminated by the letter dated 12th / 14th April, 
1965 and from the evidence it will be clear that the services of the complainant 
are terminated not for any misconduct by way of punishment but it was purely 
for safeguarding the interest of the Corporation . The secret information received 
from the Revenue Intelligence showed that Shri De Sylva was involved in smuggl 
ing activities . The additional instances of his being adversely noted by the Cor 
poration s security staff also supported that information and under the circum 
stances it is quite but natural for the Corporation to lose conAdence in such an 
employee . 


27 . Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the applicant has further argued that 
service regulation No . 42 of the Air - India Employees Service Regulations which 


SEC. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 115 

- - - 

- - - - - - - - - - 
defnes misconduct by the employees inic .udes at Item No , 24 smuggling as a mis 
conduct. Admittedly the complainant has been discharged by the Corporation be 
cause of the alleged smuggling activities and the termination of his services on 
that account is by way of punishment for misconduct . The workman has been 
deprived of his livelihood by the order of termination he should have been charge 
sheeted and should have been given an opportunity to meet the case and shculd 
have been dismissed if he was found guilty after the enquiry . The learned Coun 
sel has relied upon ine ruling reported in Ar 1966 SR 282 (DL. Board Calcutta 
v . Jallar Imam ) in which casc the respondents dock workers were removed from 
service ine Board . In this ruling their Lordships have held ; 

Held that the services of the respondents could not have been terminated 

without holding a proper enquiry . The circumstance that they hap 
pened to be detained was no justification for not complying with the 
relevant statutory provision and not to following the principles of 
natural justice . If the rule of law has to prevail any attempt to 
short- circuit the procedure based on considerations of natural justice 
should be discouraged . Considerations of expediency which are not 
permitted by law can have no relevance whatever when dealing with 
the question of the liberty and livelihood of a citizen . The appellant 
Board in terminating the employment of its employees was exercising 
authority and power of a quasi- judicial character . Where a statutory 
body or authority is empowered to terminate the employment of 
Its employees it cannot exercise its powers in disregard to the princi 
ples of natural justice . The tests laid down by Lord Reid in 1904 
A . C , 40 are relevant in ascertaining the nature of such proceedings 
with a view to decide whether the principles of natural justice ought 
to be followed or not and the authority or body conducting the en 
quiry shall have to consider those tests . When the appellant desired 
to take disciplinary action against the respondent workers on the 
ground that they being guilty of misconduct it was absolutely essen 
tial for the appellant Board to have held a proper enquiry whereat 
reasonable opportunity should have been given to the respondents to 
show cause before reaching its conclusion . At the enquiry the appel 
lant was bound to lead evidence against the respondents and give 
them reasonable chance to test the said evidence ; allow them liberty 
to lead evidence in defence and then come to a decision of its own. 
Not only the requirements of natural justice prescribed such an en 
quiry but an obligation to hold such an enquiry was also imposed 
on the appellant by clause ( 36 ) ( 3 ) of the scheme of 1951 and Clause 

45 ( 6 ) of the Scheme of 1956 ." 
These observations will show that the employers had not followed the principles 
of nautral justice in this domestic enquiry proceedings . The workman in that 
case were not removed from service by a notice under the standing orders and 
this case will not be applicable to the facts of the present case in which the com 
plainant was discharged by a notice under Regulation No. 43 and there is no 
question of principles of natural justice. 

28 . It is clear from the record that the Corporation thought of parting company 
with the complainant because of the information about his smuggling activities 
which showed his character. He was not charged for any specific act of smuggling 
and his services were terminated because he had been adversely noticed several 
times by the Revenue Intelligence in smuggling activities . The Corporotion believ 
ed the Information that he was a bad character and the complainant s application 
that he has been punished for misconduct under the garb of termination simpli 
citor cannot be accepted , and as it has not been proved that the services of the 
complainant are terminated by way of punishment there is no contravention of 
Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act . The foundation for the adjudica 
tion of the Industrial Dispute by a Labour Court under section 33A of the Act has 
not been laid down . The complainant has not discharged the initial burden and 
It shall have to be held that the present complaint is not maintainable . The 
order of termination of his services is not a clock for punishment and as there 19 
no contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act the complaint 
is not maintainable . 

29 . The learned Counsel for the complainant has further argued that the Cor 
poration did not hold an enquiry They also did not verify the information nor 
did they give any opportunity to the complainant to meet the allegations. He was 
singled out for punishment and the order of termination simpliciter was mala 
Ade and a cover for inflicting punishment. The Corporation has contended that 


116 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 

= - = 


the complainant has only made vague allegations about mala Ades vindictiveness 
etc ., and there is also no material to prove the same. 

30 , Shri Vimadalgal the learned Counsel for the Corporation has invited my 
attention to the ruling reported in 1965 I LLJ 433 and 1963 I LLJ 429. In the 
ruling reported in 1965 1 LLJ 433 ( Associated Cement Cos. Ltd ., and Sharma 
( P . N ) and another ) it has been observed ; 
" If respondent No . 1 had proved that the impugned order amounts to his 

punishment that no doubt would have been a legitimate plea on which 
the competence of the appeal to respondent No. 2 could have been 
sustained ; but beyond making a vague allegation that the impugned 
order had been passed not bona fide but for ulterior purpose no at 
tempt has been made to suggest much less to prove that the appellant 

was actuated by any improper motive in terminating his services, 
In the ruling reported in 1963 II LLJ (Ananda Bazar Patrika (Private ) Ltd ., and 
their employees ) it has been observed : 
" Though industrial adjudication can and must protect industrial employees 

from victimization a finding as to mala fides of victimization should 
be drawn only where the evidence has been led to justify it such a 
finding should not be made either in a cagual manner or light 

heartedly " . 
31, Considering the pleadings and the above observations it shall have to be 
held that the complaint has merely made vague allegation about mala fides , VIC 
timization etc . He has not also led any evidence in that report . However, in 
view of my finding that there is no contravention of section 33 ( 2 ) (b ) the question 
of mula Ades and victimization in my opinion is not relevant for the decision of 
this case. The employer may terminate the services of his employee under the 
garb of terminate simpliciter for various reasons such as for the Commission of 
misconduct or as victimization for union activities or even arbitrarily without 
any reason and the termination may be also wrongful. However . I do not think that 
in each such case the employee can resort to the short cut under the provisions 
of section 33A , It is only an einployee who has been discharged or dismiss 
ed for misconduct in contravention of the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) whose 
complaint will be investigated by the Labour Court and treat the same as a 
reference of the industrial dispute . Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act 
is not open to the employee whose services have been terminated for other reasons 
and for such employees the only way is to raise an industrial dispute and get the 
same referred to a Tribunal under section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, and 
the Tribunal whose powers and scope of jurisdiction is wider enough even to alter 
the terms of contracts of employment even against the wishes of the employer 
will have jurisdiction to enquire into the mala fides and set aside the order of 
termination . 

32. But even if it is held that such an application can be considered by the 
Labour Court under section 33A I do not And any evidence in this case to show 
the mala fides on the part of the management in terminating the service of the 
complainant. On the contrary the evidence of the complainant himselt shows that 
the management was giving him very good treatment and was well disposed to 
wards him . In his cross - examination he has stated : 
“ Till the termination letter was sent to me the Corporation treated me 

well and except this question of termination I have no grievance 

against the Corporation . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The letter as such does not place any stigma on my character . It is correct 

to say that the Corporation wag verv rclurtant to give me the reasons 
of termination . The reasras now given by the Corporation are detri 

mental to my character ," 
These statements of the applicart clearly prove that the management was very 
kindlv disposed towards him and the suggestion that the management had ter 
minated his servicrs malor Ade under the parb of termination simmlicitor does 
not stand to reason . The termination of his servires is not for misconduct and is 
not a punishment inflirted and the complainant has not proved that the monngo 
ment has contravened the provisions of section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) and the complaint will 
not be maintainable . 

33. In view of my Andino on issues Nos . 1 2 and 3 in fart it is not reessary to 
discuss the other issues ard the question about Justication of the order op ter 
mination of service . However , considering the way in which these proceedings 


Suc , 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 117 
= = = = 

- 
have been contested and their longstanding nature I think it proper to record my 
findings on the other issues in brief and I shall discuss them . 


34 . The Air India Employales , Seryice Regulations prescţibe and define the 
conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation . Chapter VII relates 
to conduct and discipline in which regulation 42 defines misconduct and 43 
provides for punishments and an employee an be removed from service for any 
misconduct while section 48 prescribes the method of termination the services of 
an employee without assigning reasons and it is by giving notice. The complain 
ant has contended that regulation 48 which empowers the Corporation to terminate 
the services of a permanent employee by notice is ultra vires the Constitution 
and is void . The Corporation has denied these allegations and have contended 
that regulation 48 is binding on the parties as contract and has further contended 
that the Labour Court has no jurisdiction to entertain such a plea and hence 
issues Nos . 4 and 5 were framed . 

35 . This Labour Court has been appointed under section 7 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act for adjudicating industrial disputes and pass awards. An award is 
an interim or final determination of an industrial dispute and the Court has got 
powers to consider issues incidental to the adjudication of dispute and in the 
adjudication the Court shall decide both questions of fact and law and the ques 
tion about the vires of regulation 48 being a question of law can be decided by 
the Court. 


36 . This question about the jurisdiction of the Tribunal to decide the constitu 
tionality of any law had been raised before the National Industrial Tribunal 
presided over by Justice Shri K , T , Desal in the Bank disputes in Ref. No. 1 of 
1960 and the learned Tribunal has observed :- - 


In the present case the validity of the appointment of the National 

Tribunal is not disputed . No provisions of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, under which this Tribunal is constituted are in any way 
challenged . What is challenged is the right of this Tribunal consti 
tuted under this Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to decide whether a 
provision of the Banking Companies Act , 1949, violates any funda 
mental right guaranteed under the Constitution . Under the Indus 
trial Disputes Act authority has been conferred upon me to determine 
questions relating to production of documents. The determination 
of the guestion whether the provisions of section 34A of the Banking 
Companies Act , 1949, are valid or not, is incidental to the effective 
exercise by me of my undisputed jurisdiction to decide whether I 
should order discovery of particular documents in this case or not. 
In my view there is no merit in the contention that I have no juris 
diction to decide whether the provisions contained in section 34A 
are void on the ground that they offend the fundamental rights 
guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution ." 


The provisions appoir.ting the Labour Court and the National Tribunal ore similar 
and in view of the above observations of the learned Tribunal I think the Labour 
Court has got jurisdiction to decide the question about the constitutionality of 
regulation 48 . 


37 . I have already observed that the Air -India Service Regulations prescribe 
and define the conditions of service of the employees of the Corporation . The 
Corporaition has contended that these regulations are binding on the parties 
as contracts and there is no question of the regulation being ultra vires of the 
constitution . It has been further contended that the regulation is valid . fair and 
non -discriminatory and is not in violation of the articles of the Constitution . 
The Corporation has produced a copy of the Air - Indía Employees Service Regula 
tions and from the strange itself it will be seen that these regulations have 
been framed taking into consideration the awards of the Tribunal and agree 
ments with the unions and associations. In pjeragraph 2 it has been stated : 
" Further modifications to the Service Regulations have become necessary 

as a result of the Award of the National Industrial Tribunal as also 

the agreements entered into with the unions and assoclations." 
From this it will be clear that though they have been styled as regulations fram 
ed by the Corporation they form part of the agreements between the Corporation 
And its emnlovees. 


118 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART 1 

= - - - - - - = = = - = - = - = - = - = - = - = 
38 . At the time of the appointment of its employees the Corporation takes in 
writing from tne employee his acceptance of the terms, conditions and has produc 
ed a copy of the appointment order form which has been signed by the applicant 
himself in this document Paragraph 10 of these form states : 
" Your services will be subject to our service rules and you will, be entitled 

to travelling allowance , leave etc ., as provided for in the sald rules. " 


Below the letter of appointment there is an acceptance form which states : 
" I accept the terms of employment of your letter . . . . . . the original cf which 

is in my possession . 


This form has been signed by the complainant Shri De Sylva and it shall have 
to be held that the service regulations are binding as contracts between the parties 
and there is no question of its being ultra vires of the constitution . 


39 . Shri Buch the learned Counsel for the complainant has argued that these 
regulations have been framed in exercise of the powers conferred by section 45 ( 2 ) 
of the Air Corporation Act, 1953. The Corporation also had secured the approval 
of the Central Government and it is law . Regulation 48 confers upon the adminis 
tration unrestricted power to terminate the services of the workmen and denied 
the employees equal protecuon of law and is ultra vires of Article 14 of the 
Constitution . However , it cannot be disputed that these regulations have been 
framed not by Government but by the Corporation which is constituted under the 
Air Corporation Act Just like a company is constituted under the Indian Companies 
Act and the rules or standing orders framed by the Corporation or the company 
would be part of the agreements between them and their employees and not law . 
It is significant to remember that even in the schedule to the Standing Orders Act , 
1946 , provision has been made for termination of the employment of a workman 
by notice and such rules or regulations in industrial concerns are proper and 
necessary . There are various considerations before the industrial management 
and as regulation 48 is a part of the contract the contention that it is ultra vires 
of the Constitution cannot be accepted . 


40 . I have already observed that as the complainant has not proved that his 
services have been terminated by way of punishment for misconduct there is no 
Jurisdiction to adjudication the dispute and there is no question of justifcation 
of the action by the management. However , even if that question is examined 
one shall have to come to the conclusion that the management was justifed in 
parting company with the complainant. The management had recelved informa 
tion from the Director , Revenue Intelligence , Finance Ministry which was recelved 
in the confidential Ales of secret intelligence and there was no question of disbeliev 
ing it . The Corporation has examined Shri Diwan EW - 1 who høs stated that the 
Information contained in paras 2 , 3 and 4 of the note was based on reliable intel 
ligence and was from most reliable sources and they had no reason to doubt its 
veracity . It was from the secret Ales of the Revenue Intelligence. Shri Dewan 
was formerly working as Deputy Inspector General of Police , Anti- Corruption , 
Rajasthan . Thereafter he was deputed to the Ministry of Finance , Government 
of India in 1956 where he worked till 1985 and in that Ministry he was Deputy 
Director of Revenue Intelligence. He was again sent back as Deputy Inspector 
General of Police , Rajasthan and his services have now been lent to Air - India 
and he is working in Alr - India AS Commercial Manager , Customer Service on 
deputation . 


41. The information having come from such a high and independent source 
the Corporation has no reason to disbelieve it and there is nothing improper to 
act upon it. It cannot be ingored that the Corporation is carrying on business 
in the face of international competition and its very existence depends upon the 
maintenance of the good reputation and the confidential of the International public 
and of the Government of the territories and countries in which it operates . There 
is much substance in the contention that it would not have been possible for the 
Corporation to continue its business profitably and successfully if it had to retain 
in its service an employee having such a record . The Corporation after getting 
the information has consulted the officers and the hierarchy . They also took the 
advice of the solicitors and thereafter exting upon the same terminated his service 
by the letter without assigning any reason and these facts would prove the bona 
fides on the part of the Corporation and the action of the Corporation in terminat 
ing the services of the complainant by notice under Regulation 48 is justifed and 
the complainant is not entitled to any rellei , Hence my award accordingly . 


Sec. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


119 


Award to be submitted to Government as required under section 33A of the 
Industrial Disputes Act . 

(Sd.) A . T . ZAMBRE , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Labour Court, Bombay . 

[No . 1/ 102 / 70 / LRIII .] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 21st December 1970 
S . O . 80 , - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the matter of 
An application under Section 33A of the sald Act from Shri Ajit Prasad Maju , 
Semi- Clerk , Monidih Project of National Coal Development Comoration , District 
Dhanbad and three others (Semi- clerks ) which was received by the Central Gov 
ernment on the 8th December , 1970 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

AT DHANBAD 
PRESENT : 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao, Presiding Officer . 

COMPLAINT No. 35 OF 1970 
In the matter of a complaint under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947, 
(Arising out of Reference No. 244 of 1967 referred to by the Ministry by its order 

No. 1 / 22 / 67 -LRII dated 19th July , 1967 ) , 


PARTIES : 
1. Ajit Prasad Majee, Semi- clerk , NCDC Ltd ., Monidih Project, District 

Dhanbad . 
2 . S . B . Sinha , Semi- clerk , NCDC Ltd ., Monidih Project, District Dhanbad . 

Dhanbad . 
3. Amalender Sarkar, Semi Circle, NCDC Ltd ., Monidih Project, District 

Dhanbad . 
4 . D . N . Mukherjee, Semi-clerk , NCDC Ltd , Monidih Project, District Dhan 
bad , 

Vs. 
1 . The employers in relation to the National Coal Development Corpora 

tion Ltd ., having its registered office at Darbhanga House , Ranchi 

through the Chairman / Managing Director. 
2 , Shri R . Siuha , Director (Administration ), NCDC , Ltd ., Darbhanga House , 
Ranchi. 

Opposite Parties. 
APFEARANCES : 
On behalf of the complainants. Shrl R . K . Naug , Assistant General Secre 

tary , National Coal Organisation Employees Association . 
On hehalf of the Opposit Partico. -- ( 1) Shri L . Singh , Labour Ofcer, ( 2 ) Shri 

R . S . Murti, Additional Chief Personnel Oficer, 
STATE: Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad, the 28th November 1970 

AWARD 


The complalnapts are represented by Shri R . K . Naug, Assistant General Sec 
retary , National Coal Organisation Employees Association and the opposite par 
tles by Shri L . Singh , Labour Officer and Shri R . S . Murti, Additional Chlef Per 
sonnel Omcer , On behalf of the complainants an application is submitted to per 
mit them to withdraw the complaint petition . This Tribunal is not concerned 


120 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part II — 


with the reasons mentioned in paras 2 to 4 of the application , The permission 
is granted to withdraw the complaint petition . The effect of the withdrawal of the 
complaint petition will be that the coinplaint petition was not Aled at all. The 
award is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Dis 
putes Act, 1947. 

( Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 
Centrol Govt. Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad . 

[No. 1 / 22 / 67-LRII (1). ] 


S . O . 81. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following -award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) , Dhanbad , in the matter of an 
application under Section 33A of the said Act from Shri Mohmmad Farque , Peon , 
National Coal Development Corcoration Limited , Ranchi and 20 others which was 
received by the Central Government on the 8th December , 1970 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL (NO . 2 ) 

DHANBAD 
PRESENT : 
Shri Nandagiri Venkata Rao , Presiding Officer . 

COMPLAINT NO . 31 OF 1970 
In the matter of a complaint under Section 38A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947 . 
(Arising out of Reference No. 214 of 1967 referred to by the Ministry by its order 

No, 1 / 22 / 67 -LRII dated 19th July , 1967) 
PARTIES : 

1 . Md. Faruque, Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
2 , S . Prasad, Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
3 . Michael Horo, Chairman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi, 
4 . Ganesh Singh , Chairman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
5 . Sadananda Biswas , Chairman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi, 
6 . Ram Naresh Ram , Chairman , NCDC Ltd , Ranchi. 
7 . Govind Kerketta , Watchman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi, 
8 . Sheo Pujan Singh , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
9 D . B . Singh , Chairman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
10 . Mahesh Tirkey , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
11 . Pikas Lakra , Chairman , NCDC Lid ., Ranchi. 
12. Masum , Chairman , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
13 . George Ekka , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
14 . Mithelesh Kumar Tirkvy , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
15 . C . Tigga , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi, 
16 . Kailash Ram , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
17 . R . N . Baitha, Peon), NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
18 . Marianus Bhangra , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
19 . Md. Islamul, Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
20 . Budhan Oraon , Peon , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 
21 . National Coal Organisation Employees Association , Darbhanga House 

Complainants 
Ranchi. 

Versus 


1 . The employers in relation to the National Coal Development Corporatior 

Ltd .. having its registered office at Darbhanga House , Ranchi through 

the Chairman / Managing Director. 
2 . The Director (Administration ) , N . C . D . C . Ltd ., Ranchi. 
3 . The Chief of Administration , NCDC Ltd ., Ranchi. 

Opposite Parties 


APPFARANCES : 
On behalf of the complainants . - - Shri R . K . Naug , Assistant General Secre 

tary , National Coal Organisation Employees Association , 
On behalf of the Opposite Parties. - ( 1 ) Shri L . Singh , Labour Officer 

( 2 ) Shri R . S . Muiti, Additional Chief Personnel Officer , 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 


121 


— 


STATE : Bihar. 

INDUSTRY : Coal. 
Dhanbad , 28th November 1970 

AWARD 
The complainants are represented by Shri R . K . Naug, Assistant General Sec 
retary , National Coal Organisation Employees Association and the opposite parties 
by Shri L . Singh , Labour Omcer and Shri R . S . Murty , Additional Chief Personnel 
Oficer . On behalf of the complainants an application is submitted to permit 
them to withdraw the complaint petition . Thış Tribunal is not concerned with 
the reusons mentioned in paras 2 to 4 of the application . The permission is granted 
to withdraw the complaint petition . The effect of the withdrawal of the com 
plaint petition will be that the complaint petition was not Aled at all . The award 
is made accordingly and submitted under Section 15 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947. 

(Sd .) N . VENKATA RAO , 

Presiding Officer. 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ), Dhanbad . 

[No. 1 / 22 /67-LRII (11 ). ] 


S . O . 82 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Col 
llery, Post Office Chanda, District Chanda and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 4th December , 1970 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR COURT, 

JABALPUR 

CAMP AT BHOPAL 

New Delhi, the 24th October 1970 
PRESENT : 
Shri M . Chandra , Presiding Officer . 

CASE REF . No. CGIT / LC ( R ) ( 4 ) OF 1970 
PAR17ES : 
The Manager, Hindustan , Lalpeth Colliery , P . O . Chanda . 

AND 
Their Workmen represented through The President. M . P .DK K . K . Sangh , 

Chandrapur 
APPEARANCES : 

For employers, Shri M . M . Sapra , Advocate . 

For workmen . - Shri B . K . Tiwari, Advocate . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine. 

DIştı : Chanda ( M . S .) 

AWARD 
This is a reference under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. As meli 
tioned in the Schedule of the Order No . 3 / 2 / 70 -LRII, dated 31st January , 1970 , 
the following dispute has been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication : 
1 Whether the section of the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery, 

Chanda in placing Shri Prabhudas Doma in category I and employing 
him as an Explosive Carrier from December , 1965 and in withdrawing 
the duties of Explosive Carrier from him from September , 1969 was 
justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from 

what date ? 
Shii Prabhudas Doma employee alleged that he was appointed a Mazdoor on 
1st March , 1964 but was given the work of a helper in the workshop without pay 
ment of the wages due to the helper and that it amounts to a foul labour practice . 
According to him , he was appointed as an Explosive Carrier on 30th December , 1965 
and was given underground duties and had been working as an Explosive Carrier 
until 12th November , 1969. He alleges that he was entitled to get Rs. 7 .75 per 


122 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II — 


day, which are category II wages , while he was getting only Rs. 6 . 55 per day which 
are category I wages. He alleges further that the work of explosive carrier was 
withdrawn from him from September, 1969. He claims that he should be reinstated 
in the position of Explosive Carrier and glven the same duties . 

The management raised a number of objections and contended that it was an 
individual dispute and could not be converted into an industrial dispute merely be 
cause it had been taken up by the Union viz . M , P , Rashtriya Koyala Khadan 
Kamagar Sangh , Chandrapur. According to the management Sri Prabhudas was 
never a member of the union at the relevant time and the union does not maintain 
records , registers and vouchers and does not observe the Trade Unions Act, grley 
ances procedure and Code of discipline and has very little union activities at the 
colliei y having very few members of the colliery and thus has no representative 
character. On merits the management alleges that Sri Prabhudas was appointed 
as General Mazdoor on 1st March , 1964 , that he made an application in December , 
1965 for being allowed to work as an Explosive Carrier because he wanted to appear 
in the Sidarr s examination requiring practical experience and that the permission 
was granted to him as desired by him . The management further alleges that Sri 
Prabhudas confirmed in an application his intcntion of merely taking experience of 
the Explosive Carrier foregoing his wages and designation . According to the 
management, application was sent to the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) Nag 
pur and has not been returned . The case of the management is that after working 
for a period of four years Srl Prabhudas asked for a certificate to appear in Gas 
testing examination in January , 1969 , that the certificate was given to him , but 
the workman never appeared and passed the examination and was consequently 
asked to resume the original job of a general unskilled mazdoor . The services of 
Sri Prabhudas as an Explosive Carrier were according to the management not 
required since there were already 15 shot carriers in the service of the colliery , 
The contention of the management is that the worker has been proper y categorised 
and has been properly paid . 

Sri Prabhudas In his rejoinder denies that it is the dispute of single workman 
and has been converted into an Industrial dlspute and alleges that it is a case of 
linfair labour practice carried on by the management and that his case is only an 
instance . According to him he because a member of the urlnon 310 October, 
1969 while the complaint was made on 10th October , 1969 
The following issues arise for determination : 

ISSUES 
1. Whether Shri Prabhudas Damují was a memler of the M . P . Rashtriya 

Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh at the relevent fime, 
2 . If not, is the reference bad in law and beyond the jurisdiction of this 

Tribuna . ? 
3 . Whether the action of the management of Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery , 

Chanda in placing Shri Prabhudas Doma in Category I and employing 
him as an Explosive Carrier from December , 1905 and in withdrawing 
the duties of Explosive Carrier from him from September, 1969, was 
justified ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled and from what 
date ? 


Findings : 

Issues No3. 1 and 2 . – The first question is what was the relevant time at which 
it was necessary that Sri Prabhudas Doma should have been a member of the 
M . P . Rashtriya Koyala Khadan Kamgar Sangh which took up his cause . The 
contention of the learned counsel for the management is that Sri Prabhudas Doma 
should have been a member of the Union at the time when the cause of action 
arose and not at the time of the reference. 

There is nothing in the Act which makes it necessary that the dispute must be 
sponsored by the Union which existed at the time when the cause of action arose. 
The reference is under Section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act. It provides 
that where the appropriate Government is of the opinion that any industrial 
dispute exists or is apprehended , it may at any time, by order in writing refer 
the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with or relevant to the dis 
pute to a Tribunal for adjudication . 
“ Industriai dispute " is defined in Section E (k ) of the Act as follows : -- 
" Industrial dispute " means any dispute or difference between employers and 

employers, or between employerg and workmen , which is connected 
with the employment or the terms of employment or with the condi 
tion of labour, of any person . 


Sec . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 


123 


- 


Evidently , the definition contemplates that 
1 . the subject matter of the dispute is to relate to a dispute or diTerence 

in respect of the employment, terms of employment or conditions of 

labour of any person ; and 
2 the parties to the dispute may be 

( a ) employers and employers, or 
(b ) employers and workmen , or 
( c ) workmen and workmen , 


It is thus clear that the subject matter may relate to only one person . So far as 
the parties to the dispute are concerned the word " workmen " has been used in the 
plural and not singular. This is the reason why it has been held by the Supreme 
Court that the dispute even though it may relate to one person must be sponsored 
by a union or a considerable number of workmen . It is nowhere provided that 
the union sponsoring the dispute should have a majority of the workmen as its 
members or even 1 / 3rd of the workmen as its members . Nor is it necessary 
that a union sponsoring the dispute should have been in existence at the time of 
the dismissal. All that is necessary is that the Union of workmen or the employers 
should have sponsored the dispute at the time of the reference . 

In Bombay Union of Journalists and others Vs. The " Hindu " , Bombay and 
another [ 1961 ( 2 ) Labour Law Journa. ] Shah , J . speaking for the Court observ 
ed : - - 
" In each case in ascertaining whether an individual dispute has acquired the 

character of an industrial dispute the test is whether at the date of 
the reference the dispute was taken up as supported by the Union 
of workmen of the employers against whom the dispute is raised by 
an individual workınan or by an appreciable number of workmen ." 

( The underlining is mine) . 
Two prepositions of law follow from these observations 
( 1 ) What is necessary that the dispute was taken up as supported by the 

union of the workmen at the date of the reference . It reed not have 
been taken up at the earlier date when the workman was actually 

dismissed . 
( 2 ) the dispute should be supported by the union of the workmen . If it is 

not supported by a union as such it must be supported by an appreci 
able number of workmen , 


It is evident that the question of appreciable number of workmen arises in the 
second alternative only i. e . when the case is not supported by a union of the work 
inen of the employers . 

In W . 1. Match Co . Ltd , V8 The W . I. Match Co . Workers Union and others 
[ 1070 ( 1) Supreme Court Cases p . 225 ], Shelat, J. speaking for the Supreme Court 
observed : - - 
" It may be that at the date of such dismissal there is no union or that the 

workmen are not sufficiently organised to take up the cause of the 
concerned workman and no espousal for that or any other reason had 
taken place at the time when such cause occurres. But that cannot 
mean that because there was no such union in existence on that date , 
the dispute cannot become an industrial one if it is taken up later on 

by the union or by a substantial section of the workinen ." 
Shelat J . went on to say , 
" Any controversy on the question as to whether it is necessary that a con 

cerned workman to be a member of the union which has espoused 
his cause at the time when that cause arose has been finally set at 
rest by the decision in Bombay Union of Journalists Vs. Hindu , 
Bombay (supra ) where this Court laid down that the tests whether 
Individual dispute got converted into an Industrial dispute , depended 
whether on the date of reference the dispute was taken on and 
supported by the union of workmen of the employer against whom 
the dispute was raised by an individual workman or by an appreciable 

number of such workmen " 
This provides a complete answer to the argument of the learned counsel for the 
management. It is not material whether the union was in existence at the time 
of the dismissal or not . It is sufficient that the dispute has been taken up and 
supported by the union at the time of the reference, 


124 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


- - - 


The learned counsel for the management relied on a Punjab High Court decl 
sion , Khadi Gramudyog Bhawun Workers Union Vs. Krishnamurthi ( E ) and an 
other ( 1960 ( 2 ) Labour Law Journal p . 261 ]. In this case it was held that an 
Individual dispute can become an industrial dispute only on the date of the dis 
missal. It was further held that the fact that the workman became a member after 
the dismissal would be of no use to him . An earlier decision of the same High 
Court was followed . This view is not good law in view of clear observations of the 
Supreme Court mentioned there . For the same reason similar decisions of other 
High Court contrary to the Supreme Court in W . I. Match Co . s case ( supra ) are 
no longer good law . The relevant time is therefore the date of the reference und 
all that is necessary 10 : the workinan is to show that the dispute had been taken 
up by the Union of workmen at that time. 

Sri R . C . Pandę ( W . W . 3 ) is the Prcsident of the Union . It is proved from 
his statement that the union is affiliated to the INTUC and is a registered union , 
Its registration number is 2940 and affiliation No. 3126 . It is also clear from Sri 
R . C . Pande s statement that the Union contains members who work in the 
Hindustan Lalpcth Colliery . He brought the membership Register of the Union . 
At page 14 Sri Prabhudas was found entered as a member . The handwriting is 
that of Sri Pindkar proved by W . W . 3 who is acquainted with Sri Pindkar s hand 
writing. The copy of the reicvant entry is Ex . W . W . 3 / 1. In the receipt book 
of counterfolls ( Ex . W . W . 2 / 1 of the reference case No. CGIT / LC ( E ) ( B ) / 70 Serial 
No. 370 is the counterfoil of the receipt given to Sri Prabhudas for Rs. . The 
subscription , according to Sri Pande, is Re. - / 8 / - per month , but members often 
give advance subscription for more than a month . Since the receipt was for 
Rs. 6 / - it is evident that the subscription was given in advance for the whole 
year. 

It is also clear from the statement of Sri R . C . Pande that at first a hunger 
strike notice was given for Sri Prabhudas s case, then another hunger strike notice 
was given , and then there was a conciliation case before the Asstt . Labour Com 
missioner, Sri Shankarappa . The case was supported by the Union . Resolution 
No, 5 dated 24th September , 1969 at page 6 of the Minutes Book is also signed at 
the end by Sri Pande ( W . W . 3 ) himself and signatures are proved by him . The 
resolution relates to the wages of Sri Prabhudas explosive carrier . It is true 
that when cross - examined Sri Pande stated that Sri Prabhudas did not make any 
complaint to the Union in writing. At the same time, Sri Pande, categorically 
stated that Sri Prabhudas himself attended the Union and told the Union about his 
case complaining that he was given the work of Explosive Carrier and was paid 
wages as General Unskılled Mazdoor since 1965 It is not necessary that a com 
plaint to the union must be in writing. It can he oral also . Sri Pande further 
states that there were meetings with the colliery at the residence of the Collector 
and elsewhore 11t the colllery was not prepared to hear the workmen . It is not 
for the Union to keep minutes of the meeting held before the Collector . I agree 
with him that those ineetings are called only for the sake of industrial peace . 

It has thus been clearly established from the statement of Sri Pande ( W . W . 3 ) , 
the minutes book . register and the counterfoil of the receipt that Sri Prabhudag 
Was a member of the Union at the relevant time, in fact on a date much earlier 
than the date of reference . It is also clear from the statement of Sri Pande and 
from these documents 1. e ., registers and minutes of the Union , that it is a repre 
sentative union of the workers of the colllery containing a considerabie number 
Of workmen as its members . 

It is not at all necessary that all the workmen or even a majority of them 
should be members of the union . This is a union which cannot be equated with 
one which contains only a few workmen as its members of a particular employer 
and is really an outsider. It is a union of the colliery taking up the case of a 
member workman working in that very colliery . It is thus clear that the dispute 
was an industrial dispute and is not beyond the furisdiction of this Tribunal Nor 
can the reference be said to be bad in law in any manner whatsoever . 

Both the issues are found accordingly against the management and in favour 
of the workmen , 


Issue No. 3 . - It is admitted on behalf of the Union that Sri Prabhudas was 
appointed as a General Mazdoor on 1st March , 1966 . It is further admitted that 
he was given the work of a helper in the workshop and that with effect from 30th 
Ocider , 1965 he was appointed as an Explosive Carrier and he was given under 
ground dutics . The management alleged that this was done because in December 
1986 Sri Prabhudas made an application to the Manager to allow him to work as 
explosive carrier because he wanted to appear in the Sirdar s examination re 
quiring practical experience . It is further alleged that the original application , 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 125 
- . - . 

- - 

- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - - 


according to the management, was sent to the Asstt. Labour Commissioner ( C ) 
Nagpur during the conci. iation proceedings and has not been returned . The 
Union deniey all these allegations and contends that no application of the kind was 
given by the workman . Nor was any such application sent to or produced be 
fore the Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) Nagpur. 

The allegation of the management regarding the application is clearly false. 
The fles of the Asstt. Labour Commissioner have been summoned and there is no 
application of the workman of the nature suggested by the management. On the 
contrary , in the very failure rcport the Assii. Labour Commissioner ( C ) Nagpur 
himself says that the management had stated that the workman had given a letter 
to them for the purpose of qualifying himself for Şirdar s examination and offered 
to work as an Explosive Carrier without demanding the proper wages oĽ the 
Explosive Carrier Cat. II, and that the management could not produce the letter 
referred to above for his perusal. 

The management relied on Annexure No. 1 to its written statement Annexure 1 
is a letter purporting to have been written by the Manager of the Colliery to the 
Asstt . Labour Commissioner and It is said in that letter that Sri Prabhudas had 
requested the management to designate him as a shot-carrier which would give 
him some experience to appear in the Sirdar s examination in support of which his 
application was enclosed which was self - explanatory . The contention is that this 
letter says that the explanation was sent to the Asstt . Labour Commissioner. As 
already mentioned above from the failure report of the Asstt. Labour Commis 
sioner that no such application was produced before him . It is also significant that 
the letter Annexure No. 1 does not contain at the end any list of the enclosures . 
It the application had actually been sent as an enclosure it was natural for the 
Manager to enter it in his letter at the end as an enclosure . This is the ordinary 
procedure . The fact that it was not so entered shows that no application was 
actually enclosed . If it had been so enclosed there was no reason why the Asstt. 
Labour Commissioner should have said in his failure report that no application of 
the kind had been produced by the Manager , Sri K . P . Bajaj ( E . W . 1 ) certainly 
refers to such an application in his statement in the witness box . But in view of 
the documentary evidence including the failure report, it is not possible to rely 
on the statement of Sri Bajaj, who is employed in the same company and is a 
highly interested witness. His interest is evident from the fact that Sri Balaj stated 
that Sri Prabhudas worked as an explosive carrier for about a year , while in the 
written statement of the management itself it is admitted that the experience 
required for Sirdar s examination was of not less than three years and that after 
working " near about four years " as such the worker asked for the certifcate to 
appear for the Gas- Testing examination in January , March and September, 1969 . It 
is further mentioned in the written statement that this certifcate was issued to 
him but when he failed to appear, he was asked to resume his criginal job as 
General Unskilled Mazdoor . It is , therefore , obvious that Sri Prabhudas work 
ed as a shot - carrier or an explosive carrier for a much longer period than one 
year and at least for three or four years. Thus the Assistant Manager 
( E . W . 1 ) is prepared to go even beyond thc written statement. The mere fact 
that the management is not mentioning him as shot -carricr in the register is 
only because the management was not prepared to pay him the wages of a 
shot- carrier . Sri Bajaj was asked categorically whether Sri Prabhudas work 
ed as a shot- carrier from 1965 till today. He had to admit that he does not 
know it Sri Prabhudas was working as such for such a long period . Clearly , 
his statement that Sri Prabhudas only worked as shot- carrier for about a year 
is false and made only to support the management s case . On the basis of the 
statement of such a witness, it is not possible to believe him and hold that 
Sri Prabhudas actually made any application of the kind suggested by the manage 
ment, when Sri Prabhudas has himself denied it on oath . 

Sri Ravi Shanker Vyas ( E . W . 2 ) the Head Time Keeper in the colllery has 
come forward to state that he read the application of Sri Prabhudas and has also 
deposed about the contents . He had , however , to admit that while searching for 
that application he did not read any other application . How could he distinguish 
between the alleged application and others unless he read the others also at least 
in past . He stated that application was sent to Assistant Labour Commissioner ( C ) , 
Nagpur but when he was cross - examined he had to admit that he did not know 
whether the application was sent after he had given it to the Manager. He admits 
that he did not go to the Labour Commissioner to state about it. He is an employee 
of the management and it is not possible to rely on his interested statement in 
the face of the fallure report. He has clearly sacriAced truth to his interest and 
zeal to support the case of the management. Nor is it possible to rely on another 
clerk Shri Basant Kumar ( E . W . 3 ) . He says that he had no knowledge whether 


126 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


It was an important dak or not and he had only to see whether he had sent the 
enclosure or not. As we have already seen the letter ( annexure l ) does not 
mention any enclosure at the bottom of the letter . So , there was no question of 
his sending any enclosure . Nor is it prowable that the clerk at this stage would 
remeber that any enclosure was actually sent with this letter particularly when 
it is not entered at the end of the letter as an enclosure . I do not believe him 
and find that no application of the kind is proved to have been given by the 
workman , 


The management says in the written statement that there are 15 shot-carriers 
in the service of the Hindustan Lalpeth Colliery and that the management never 
required an explosive carrier to be added to that strength . It is at the same time 
admitted in the written statement itsaelf that Sri Prabhudas was given the work 
of an explosive carrier . It is true that Madhukar is now under suspension . His 
statement has therefore to be scrutinised carefully . But he is supported by the 
management s own written statement on the point that Prabhudas worked as o 
shot-carrier and that also for about 4 years . Prabhudas also swears that he 
worked as a shol-carrier for many years . I do not see any reason to disbelieve 
them on this point. 


The result is that we find that Prabhudas worked as an explosive carrier for 
at least 4 years and that there is nothing on record by way of any application of 
his to show that he had willingly foregone the wages of an explosive carrier , 
The management thus took from him the work of an explosive carrier and do 
not want to pay him the wages for the work he did . He is consequently entitled 
to get wages of the Explosive Carrier with effect from December , 1965 . Nor is 
there any reason for reverting him from the job of an explosive carrier with 
effect from December , 1965 once we And that the management s allegation regard 
Ing Sri Prabhudas s application has not been substantiated and established . There 
is no justiAcation for the withdrawal of the work from him . No adverse entry 
or complaint has been proved against him . There are no special qualifcations 
proved to be necessary for the work of an explosive carrier. He is accordingly 
entitled to the wages of an explosive carrier with effect from December, 1965 and 
should be placed in category II . I find this issue accordingly for the workman . 
Orders: 
In view of my Andings of Issues 1 to 3 , withdrawal of the duties of explosive 

carrier from Sri Prabhudas was not justified and he should be paid 
the wages of the Explosive Carrier with effect from December , 1965 
and placed in Category II. He will get Rs, 200 / - as his costs from 

the Management . 
The award is made accordingly . 

( $ d .) M . CHANDRA , 

Presiding Omcer, 

24 - 10 - 1970 . 
[No. 3 / 2 / 70 -LRII. ) 


S . O . 83. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Centrai Government Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of New Ghusick Colliery, 
Post Office Kallpahari, District Burdwan and their workmen which was received 
by the Central Government on the 9th December , 1970 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFFRENCE No . 52 OF 1970 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the management of New Ghusick Colllery . 

AND 
Their workmen . 
PRESENT ; 

Mr. B . N . Banerjee, Presiding Officer . 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 


127 


APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Sri J. N . Chatterjee, an Employee . 

On behalf of Workmen - Absent . 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines 

AWARD 
By Order NO. 8 / 27 / 70- LRII, dated October 17 , 1970 , the Government of India , 
in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour 
and Employinent), referred the following dispute between the employers in relation 
to the management of New Ghusick Colliery and their workmen , to this Tribunal, 
for adjudication , namely : 
" Whether the order dated the 1st April, 1970 , issued by the Executive Officer , 

Coalfield Recruiting Organisation , Post Office Jharia , District Dhanbad , 
reca .ling Shri Bhullan Singh , Unit Supervisor , at New Ghusick Colliery, 
Post Office Kalipahari , District Burdwan to his office and the conse 
quent stoppage of his work by the management of New Ghusick Coi 
Hery from the 4th April, 1970 , was justified ? If not , to what relief is 

the workman entitled ? ” 
2 . It appears from the order of reference that the cause of the workman had 
been espoused by the Assistant Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Congress (HMS), but 
neither the Trade Union nor the workman submitted any written statement. It 
appears , however, from a copy of a letter addressed by the workman to the Under 
Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation , dated November 
10 , 1970 . that he had no dispute with the management and that he was prompted 
to resort to the present proceedings at the instance of some persons who had 
completely misguided him . A copy of the aforesaid letter was also forwarded to 
this Tribunal by the Executive Officer of the Coal fields Recruiting Organisation . 
The said letter is quoted hereinbelow : 

" Re : Case No . 6 / 27/ 70 - L .R . ii 
This is to notify that I have no dispute with the management of Bhattar 

and Company or for that matter with the C . R . O . 
No one is authorised by me to persue the proceeding which I was prompted 

to resort to at the instance of some persons who completely misguid 

ed me and benefitted at my expense , 
I regret the wholething and altogether withdraw for from dispute ." 
3. In the written statement Aled on behalf of the management, It is stated : 
" (8 ) That Sri Bhullan Singh has no dispute with the management and the 

same has subsequently been admitted by Shri Bhullan Singh , himsell 
in a letter addressed by him to the Regional Labour Commissioner , 
( Central), Asansol with a copy to us. A true copy of this letter dated 

19th October , 1970 is being, herewith , enclosed . . " . 
4 . Now that it appears that the workman is not interested in the dispute any 
longer , I pass a no dispute award in the reference. 
Dated , December 4 , 1970 . 

(Sd.) B . N . BANTRJEE . 

Presiding Officer. 
( No. 6 / 27 / 70 -LRIT ] 


S . O . 84 .-- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 3 ). Dhanbad , in the industrial dis 
pute between the employers in reiation to the management of Dugda Coal Washery . 
Post Office Dugda , District Hazaribagh and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 3rd December , 1970, 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL ( NO . 3 ) 

AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE NO. 81 OF 1969 . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Sachidanand Sinha, M . A . M . I., Presiding Officer , 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the management of Dugda Coal Washery . 


V8. 


Their workinen . 


128 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 
- - - - -- = = = = = = 

- 
APPEARANCES : 

For employers 

1. Sri Ranen Roy , Advocate . 
2 . Sri T . N . Srlvastava , Senior Personnel Omcer. 
3 . Sri R . K . Das, Advocate , and 
4 . Srl S . S . Kapoor, Advocate . 


For workmen 

1. Sri P . K . Bose , Advocate . 
INDUSTRY : Steel. 

STATE : Bihar, 
Dhanbad , the 17th of November 1970 

AWARD 
1. The Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) by notification No. 8 / 50 / 69 
LRII dated the 30th of October , 1969 referred the following industrial dispute be 
fore this Tribunal for adjudication . 

SCHEDULC 
" ( 1 ) Whether Dugda Coal Washery is to be treated as a separate establish 

ment of Central Coal Washerles Organisation , Hindustan Steel Limited , 
for the payment of Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 ? Ii 
not, what relief the workers of Dugda Washerles of Hindustan Steel 

Limited are entitled to in regard to payment of Bonus under the Act ? 
( 2 ) Whether the workmen of Dugda Washery of Central Coal Washeries 

Organisation of Hindustan Steel Limited , Post Office Dugda , District 
Hazaribagh are entitled to payment of Banus and if so , from which 

year? " 
2 . The Coal Washeries Worker s Union filed written statement on 17th Novem 
ber , 1969 on behalf of the workmen . Their case is that the Union presented a 
charter ot clemand dated 13th November , 1963 before the management of Hindus 
tan Steel Limited at its Head Office at Ranchi and the Anancial and other affairs 
1964 and 1968 . 

3 . Consequent upon the sald charter of demand dated 15th November , 1985 
the management effected payment of Bonus for the financial year 1965 -66 only 
but no payment was made either for the years prior to 1965 - 66 or for the subsc 
quent years . The Union on behalf of the workmen continued to press for the 
payment of Bonus and when all efforts of the union proved futile the union served 
upon the management a notice of strike dated 12th September , 1968 with a 17 
points demand in which the demand for Bonus was one of the items. 

4 . The management and the Union had detalied discussions over the strike 
notice and ultimately a settlement was arrived at between the parties on 27th 
May , 1969 and in regard to demand of Proft Sharing Bonus the parties agreed 
to have a voluntary reference under Section 10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947. 

5 . In view of the aforesaid terms of settlement a joint reference under Section 
10 ( 2 ) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 was made by the parties and the Central 
Government have referred the present matter before this Tribunal for adjudica 
ticn . 


6 . According to the Union the management and control at the highest level in 
respect of Dugda Coal washery are in the hands of the top management of Hindus 
ton Steel Limited at its Head Omce at Ranchi and the Anancial and other affairs 
are also controlled from Ranchi in accordance with law and practice of the 
management and for all practical purpose Dugda Coal Washery Is treated as an 
unit of Hindustan Steel Limited . 


7 . The Central Coal Washeries Organisation is simply an Administrative wing 
rif the Hindustan Steel Limited for coordinating between the three units of coal 
washeries and besides that it has got po separate entity , and that the Dugda Coal 
Washery can not be treated as a separate establishment of the Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation , Hindustan Steel Limited for the payment of Bonus under 
the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 but it should be treated as constituent unit of 
Hindustan Steel Limited and to be taken at par with all the units of Hindustan 
Steel Limited 


Sec. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


129 


8 . Şince Dugda Coal Washery is not a separate establishment but one of the 
constituent units of the Hindustan Steel Limited the workmen of Dugda Coal 
Washry are to be treated at. par with all employees of Hindustan Steel Limited 
and are entitled to receive Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act , 1985 for all 
the years under dispute. 

9 . The management have alrcady made payments of Bonus under the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1965 to the workers of Dugda Coal Washery for the financial year 
1965 -66 und again for the financial year 1988 - 99 withholding payments for the 
earlier financial years prior to 1965 -66 and for the intervening years i. e . for 
1966 -67 and 1967 -68 . 


10 . On these grounds the prayer of the Union is that the Dugda Coal Washery 
should not be treated as a separate establishment but it should be treated as a 
constituent unit of Hindustan Steel Limited and the workmen of Dugda Coal 
Washery should be treated at par with all employees of Hindustan Steel Limited 
and be paid Bonus for all the years since 1963 -64 . The workmen of Dugda Coal 
Washery are entitled to payment of Bonus with effect from the financial year 
1963-64 and onwards. 

11 The management Aled written statement on 12th December , 1969. Their 
case is that apart from three steel plants at Durgapur, Rourkela and Ballai tha 
Hindustan Steel Lid has under its management and Alloy Steels Plant at Durga 
pur, a Fertiliser Plant at Rourkela , the Central Coa . Washeries Organisation at 
Dhanbad . 

12 . Like Steel Plants and Fertiliser and Alloy Steels Plant the Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation also maintains its own consolidated Balance- sheet And 
Profit and Loss Accounts . The three coal washeries at Dugda, Shojudih and 
Patherdıh are meroiy the parts of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation . 


13 . Though the Central Coal Washeries Organisation was set up in 1959 tb . 
first coal washery which came into regular production was Dugda Coal Washery 
No. 1 In 1962 and subsequently the other coal washeries started regular production 
at Bhojudih in 1962-63 and at Patherdih in 1965 - 66. Another Coal Washery at 
Dugda ( 11) came into regular production in 1968 -69. This comprises the entira 
set of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation . 

14 . The Coal Washeries are only parts of the Central Coal Washeries Organi 
sation under its administrative control and management, and that, in the circum 
stances , the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated as a separate establishment 
of Central Coal Washeries Organisation for payment of bonus under the Payment 
of Bonus Act. 

15 . Accordingly the workmen at Dugda Coal Washery would be entitled to 
bonus from the year the Central Washeries Organisation earns profit within 
the mcaning of the Act or on the expiry of the sixth accounting year i. e , from 
the year 1968 - 69. 

10 . According to the management the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated 
as a constituent unit of Hindustan Steel Limited . 

17 . The Union has examined 4 witnesses , viz ., WW - 1 to WW - 4 and also 
exhibited 13 item of documents which are marked as Exit. W - 1 to W - 13 . The 
management has also examined one witness , viz ., Shri K . Janardan , the Senior 
Accounts Officer of Central Coal Washery Organisation , 

18 . WW - 3 is Şri B . D . Dubey, who is the President of the Coal Washeries work 
ers Union and is also a member of the Bihar Legislative Assembly . In his evi 
dence he has stated the case of the Union in very clear words. He stated that 
for the financial year 1965 -66 bonus was paid by the management @ 4 per cent 
for the workers of Dugda Coal Washery . In that year only 4 per cent bonus was 
paid to all the workmen of all concern of Hindustan Steel Ltd . and the bonus 
was not paid for the financial year 1966 -67, 1967- 68 for which they raised dispute 
He has further stated that their claim is that they are the constituent unit of 
the Hindustan Steel Limited and to be treated at par with all other units of 
Hindustan Steel Ltd . 


19 . MW - 1 Sri K . Janardan is the Senior Accounts Omcer in Central Coal 
Washeries Organisation of Hindustan Steel Ltd . He has stated in his evidence 
that he prepares balance sheet and profit and 1999 accounts of Central Coal Washe 
ries Organisation and that thọ printed annual report contain consolidated balance 
sheet of the Hindustan Steel Limited as also balance sheet and Profit and Lom 


130 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


Account of Central Coal Washeries Organisation . He has further stated that the 
production started in Dugda No. 1 Coal Washery in 1982- 03 . 

20 . MW - 1 has proved Ext . M - 11 Series, and he has stated in his evidence that 
the calculation of depreciation was made in his department and it was checked 
by him and it bears his signature . He has further stated that he has also cal 
Culated the income tax depreciation for the year 1963 -64 to 1967 - 68 ( Ext. M - 13 ) . 

21 . The printed annual reports (Ext. M - 1 to M - 10 ) contain consolidated ba 
larre sheets of Hindustan Steel Limited and also Central Coal Washeries Organi 
sation . 

22 . The case of the management in brief is that the three coal washeries, 
namely Bhojudih , Pathardih and Dugda Coal Washeries are departmentally run 
as undertakings of the Copetral Coal Tashcries Organisation with their auminis 
trative office at Dhanbad . The Central Coal Washeries Organisation prepures 
and maintains a separate baianoc stract ind prollt and loss Account and is there 
tore , o be treated a separate eritablishment under the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965. 

23 . Whereas the case of the Union in brief is that Dugda Coal Washery is not 
a separate establi -hment of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation but one of 
the constituent units of the Hindustan Steel Llnited and that the workroen of 
Dugda Coal Washeries ars - on for e t or with all employees of Hindustan 
Steel Limited and are entitled to receive Bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act, 
1965 . 

24 . This is in substance the case of the parties . 

25 . The first question for my conoſderation is what is the relationship of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation to the parent body , namely the Hindustan 
Steel Limited . I have next to see what is the poyition of the Dugda Coal Washery 
1. e . I have next to consider the position of Dugda Coal Washery and see whether 
It is a branch of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation or a branch of the 
undertaking of the Hindustan Steel Ltd ., the present organisation . This would 
determine the basis on which the workmen would earn bonus and also the year 
from which they would earn bonus. 

26 . Under the Payment of Bonus Act , 1965, the word " establishment" is not 
separately defined. It is hon ever , apparent from the language of Section 2014 ) 
that an establishment may be a factory or any other kind of business establishment. 
Therefore , I find that the word establis !ıment has been used in the statute in its 
ordinary sense of a business or manufacturii ; concern Section 3 of the Payment 
of Bonus Act contemplates an establishment consisting of different departments , 
undertakings or branches . Section 3 of the payment of Bonus Act runs as 
follows : 

" Where an establishment consists of different departments or undertakings or 
has branches, whether situated in the same place or in different places , all such 
departments or undertakings or heliches shall be treated as parts or the same 
establishment for the purpose of computation of bonus under this Act ; 

Provided that where for any accounting year a separate balance sheet , and 
profit and loss account are prepared and maintained in respect of any such de 
partment or undertaking or branch , then , such department or undertaking or 
branch shall be treated as a separate establishment for the purpose of computa 
tion of bonus under this Act for that year , unleas such department or undertaking 
ar branch was , immediately before the commencement of that accounting year 
treated as part of the establishment for the purpose of computation of bonus." 

27 . The main part of Section 3 provides that where an establishment consists 
of different departments or undertakings or has branches whether situated in 
the same place n . in different places , all such departments and undertakings and 
branches shall be treated as parts of the same establishinent for the purpose of 
computation of bonus. 

28. The proviso to the Section , however , makes an exception in that in trealg 
such departments , undertakings or branches as " separate establishment" for the 
purpose of computation of bonus, if for any accounting year a separate balance 
sheet and profit and loss accounts were prepared and maintained for it by sucha 
departments , undertakings or branches. But the exception does not apply , if 
immediately before the commencement of accounting year such departments , under 
takings or branches had been treated as parts of the establishment for the purpose 
of computation of bonus 

29. Thus although an establishment means an establishment that is to say , a 
business or manufacturing concern , Section 3 of the Payment of Bonus Act creates 


SEC . 3 (1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 


131 


a legal fiction under which there may be an establishment consisting of different 
departments , undertakings or branches, each of which must be deemed to be a 
" separate establishment. " In other words, for the purpose of computation of 
bonus, departments , undertakings or branches of an establishment do not mean 
parts of the parent establishment, under certain circumstances , but need be 
regarded as separate establishments . 

30 . It was argued before me on behalf of the management that the Dugda 
Coal Washery should not be treated as a separate establishment either of the 
Central Coal Washery Organisation of Hindustan Steel Ltd . or of Tindust: n Steel 
Limited itself . It was submitted before me that the Central Coal Washery Orga 
nisation was a department or undertaking of the Hindustan Steel Limited , which 
maintains a separate account and should be treated as a separate establishment. 
Dugda Coal Washery was a unit of the Central Washerles Organisation and it 
could not be treated as a separate establishnient of the said Organisation and 
there is substance in the submission made by the management. 

31 . It appears from Ext. M - 9 and M - 10 ( Annual report ) containing balance 
sheet and profit and loss account for the years 1966 -67 and 1967 -68 , that separate 
balance sheet and proflt and loss account were being maintained for the Central 
Coal Washeries Organisation and not for Dugda Coal Washery . Thus, the position 
16 that the Dugda Coal Washery in a unit of the Central Coal Washeries Organisa 
Hon which is a separate establishment of the parent establishmen known as 
Hindustan Steel Limited . The payment of Bonus Act contemplates existence of 
separate establishment or establishment within an existing establishnient, but 
does not contemplate creation of a separate establishment within a separate 
establishment itself, Therefore , the Dugda Coal Washery cannot be treated 28 
a separate establishment of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messers 
Hindustan Steel Limited for the purpose of Payment of Bonus Act. 

32 . It cannot be also a separate establishment of the Hindustan Steel Limited 
because with that parent organisation it has little connection . But because it is 
a unit of a separate establishment, the workmen employed in the unit should be 
entitled to bonus at the rate payable to the said separate establislıment, namely 
the Central Coal Washeries Organisation 

33 . I therefore , hold that the Dugda Coal Washery is not to be treated 
as a separate establishement of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messrs 
Hindustan Steel Limited for Payment of Bonus. I also hold that the Dugda 
Coal Washery is a unit of the Central Coal Washery Organisation , which itselt 
18 e separate establishment of Hindustan Steel Limited . Therefore, Dugda Coal 
Washery forms an integral part of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation , 
The workmen employed in Dugda Coal Washery are therefore , entitled to bonus 
on the basis of the separate Balance Sheet and Proft and Loss Account of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation of Messrs Hindustan Steel Limited and not 
on the consolidated balance sheet and profit and loss account of the Hindustan 
Steel Limited . 

34 . Therefore , Section 16 of the Payment of Bonus Act shall be applicable to 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation . 

35 . There is no dispute that Messrs Ilindustan Steel Limited was incorporated 
in January , 1954 and the the Dugda Coal Washery started production from the 
year 1962- 63 . The relevant portion of section 16 of the payment of Bonus Act, 
1985 runs as follows: 

“ Where an establishment is newly set up , where before or after the commence 
ment of this Act, the employees of such establishment shall be entitled to be paid 
bonus under this Act only : 
( a ) from the accounting year in which the employer derives proit from 

such establishment; or 
( b ) from the sixth accounting year following the accounting year in which 

the employer sells the goods produced or manufactured by him or 

renders services , as the case may be, from such establishment, 
whichever is earlier : 

Provided that in the case of any such establishment the employees thereof 
shall not, save as otherwise provided in Section 33 , be entitled to be paid bonus 
under this Act in respect of any accounting year prior to the accounting year 
commencing on any day in the year 1964 . 

Explanation 1. . For the purpose of this section an establishment shall not be 
deetned to be newly set up merely by reason of a change in its location , manage 
ment, name or ownership . 


132 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART IL 


- - - 
Esplanation 11. - - For the purpose of clause ( a ) an employer shall not be 
deemed to have derived profit in any accounting year unles8 ; — 
( a ) he has made provision for that year s depreciation to which he is 

entitled under the Income tax Act or , as the case may be, under the 

agricultural income- tax law ; and 
(b ) the arrears of such depreciation and losses incurred by him in respect 

of the establishment for the previous accounting years have been 

fully set off against his profits ." 
38 . Therefore, the employees are to get bonus from the accounting year in 
which the employers derives proft, 

37. These profit and logs account for the year 1964 - 65 shows that 
the Co ., made a net profit of Rs. 2 . 36 million . Therefore , the workmen of the 
Central Coal Washeries Organisation became entitled to payment of bonus from 
the year ended 31st March , 1965 . 

38 . There was no question of giving to the management any bonus holiday as 
contemplated in Sectnon 16 . 

39 . It also appears from the annual reports ( Ext. M -7 to M -10 ) that the ma 
nagement made the following net proft: 
( a ) For the accounting year ending 31- 3 -65 the Co. made net profit of Rs. 

2 . 36 million . 
(b ) For the accounting year ending 31 - 3 -88 the Co. made net pront of 

Rs. 3 .22 million . 
( c ) For the accounting year ending 31- 3 -67 the Co . made net pront of 

Rs. 2 .94 million . 
( d ) For the accounting year ending 31 -3 -88 the Co . made net pront of 

Rs . 5 , 20 million , 
40 . There is a dispute between the parties regarding the calculation of depre 
ciation . According to the management the profit shown in the profit and look 
account of Central Coal Washeries Organisation for the year 1964 - 65 and for thi 
subsequent years are no profit because of the provisions of explanation II of sub 
section ( 1 ) of Section 11 of the Payment of Bonus Act . 

41. According to the management iſ the depreciation is calculated according 
to the Income Tax Act It will wipe out the profit altogether rather it will show look . 
Therefore , according to the management the Central Coal Washerles Organisation 
came in production for sale through its Dugda Coal Washery in the accounting 
year 1962 -63 and therefore , the workmen of the Dugda Coal Washery cannot 
claim bonus under the Act prior to the year 1968 -69. 

42 . The real dispute therefore , hinges on the calculation of the depreciation . 

43 . The management has shown the depreciation in the proAt and Loss Account 
for the year 1964 -65 to 1967-68 as follows: 
For the year ending 1964 -65 

5 . 15 million . 
For the year ending 31 - 3 - 66 

7 . 13 
For the year ending 31- 3 -67 

8 .58 
For the year ending 31- 3 - 68 

8 .59 
44. The management has shown the loss of depreciation as per Income- tax 
Act for the year 1964 - 65 to Rs. 67 -68 million as follows: 
For the year ended 31 - 3 - 65 

12. 69 million . 
For the year ended 31- 3 -65 
For the year ended 31 - 3 -67 

17 . 44 
For the year ended 31 - 3 -68 

14 .87 , ( vido Lxt. M - 13) . 
43 . MW - 1 has stated in his evidence that the calculation of depreciation ag 
giver in pront and loss account is on straight line method and it is not acceptable 
by the income-tax . For the income- tax purpose depreciation is calculated on 
diminishing balance method as given in the Income-tax Act . 


16 . 22 


48 . He had further stated that these charts (Ext M - 11 series ) show depreciation 
according to the Income Tax Act for the year 1962-63 to 1967- 68 . 


47. The crux of the whole problem is the calculation of depreciation . Having 
ascertained the amount of gross profits the first item of deduction relates Ho 


ABC . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 133 

= = = = 
depreciation . The Income- tax Act has provided for initial and add 
tional depreciation besides the statutory depreciation which was already admissi 
ble . In other words, depreciation allowed under the Income Tax Act now con 
stats of whas may be called the statutory normal depreciation calculated under 
rule 8 as well as initial depreciation and additional depreciation . 

48 . The initial depreciation and additional depreciation are in a sense abnormal 
additions to the income- tax depreciation and they are designed to meet particular 
contingencies and for a limited period . 

49 . It appears that in the ultimate result the depreciation under the Income-tax 
Act and depreciation under the ompany s Act achieve the same result, but under 
the Income- tax Act the initial depreciation and additional depreciation in the 
early years raise the quantum of depreciations very considerably , to the detriment 
of the available surplus, and so it would not be tair to the workmen that thege 
two depreciations should be rated as prior charges before the available surplus is 
ascertained . 

50 . Therefore , in this case I find that the Dugda Coal Washery made net pront 
in the accounting year ending 31- 3 - 65 . Therefore , the workmen of the Dugda 
Coal Washery are entitled to bonus from the year ended March , 31, 1965 and 
there is no question of giving to the management any bonus holidays as contem 
plated under Section 18 of the Payment of Bonus Act. 

51. The management as a matter of fact paid bonus for the year 1985 - 86 , 
Again the workmen have been paid bonus for the year 1968 68 . They 
have not been paid bonus for the intervening period 1. e . for the Anancial year 
1966 -67 and 1967 -68. In as much as in all these years the Central Coal Washeries 
Organisation had no available surplus for giving bonus, the workmen are entitled 
to only minimum bonus under the provisions of Section 10 of the Payment of 
Bonus Act for the financial years 1966 -67 and 1987 -88 . 

52. In this view of the case I hold that the Dugda Coal Washery is not to be 
treated as a separate establishment of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation 
for the payment of bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act. It is to be treated 
ac unit of the Central Coal Washeries Organisation which is itsell a separate 
establishment. In that view of the workmen employed at Dugda Coal Washery 
are entitled to the same payment of bonus to which the other employees ot the 
Central Washeries Organisation are entitled , on the basis of the separate balance 
sheets and profit and loss accounts of the Organisation . 

53. The workmen employed in the Dugda Coal Washery are entitled to the 
minimum bonus for the Anancial year 1966 - 67 and 1987- 88 . 
This is my award. 

(Sd .) SACHIDANAND SINHA , 

Presiding Oncer . 
[No. 8 / 50 / 89 -LRII .] 


New Delhi, the 28th December 1970 
8 . O . 85 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
Shri O . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) , New Delhi, Arbi 
trator , in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation to the National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited , Darbhanga House , Ranchi and their 
workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 15th December , 
1970 . 

In the matter of arbitration of an industrial dispute between the management 
of M / s , N . C . D . C . Ltd , Ranchi and their workmen represented by the National Coal 
Organisation Employees Association , Ranchi. 


PRESENT; 

Shri 0 . Venkatachalam , Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) & Arbitrator . 
Representing the Management : 

1. Shri R . S . Murthi, Additional C .P .O . M / s. N .C . D . C ., Ranchi. 
Representing the workmen : 
] . Shri Abraham Mathew , General Secretary , National Coal Organisation 

Employees Union , and others. 


134 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ Part II 


By an agreement dated 16th May , 1970 the Management of M / s . N . C . D . C . Ltd ., 
Ranchi and the National Coal Organisation Employees Assoclation , Ranchi agreed 
to refer the industrial dispute between them over the following issue for my arbi 
tration under Section 10A of the I. D . Act : 
* Whether in view of various orders and circulars issued by the NCDC the 

date of increment fixed by the Management of NCDC in connection 
with implementation of Coal Wage Board as 15th August, of each year 
is justified ? If not, to what relief the workmen are entitled keeping 
in view the ad hoc increment granted by the Management with clect 
from 15th August, 1969 ." 


2 . While agreeing to treat my decision as binding on them , the parties desired 
that I should take my Award within a period of six months from the date on 
which the aforesaid agreement was published in the Gazette of India . The said 
agreement was duly published in the Gazette of India on 4th July , 1970 . The 
issue referred for arbitration would concern about 43 ,000 workmen out of the total 
of over 66 , 000 workmen employed by M / s . NCDC In all their collieries and allied 
establishments . 


3 . After addressing the parties calling for their respective statements of the 
case and rejoinders to each other s statement, I took up the case for hearing at 
Ranchi on 8th August, 1970 . At this hearing the Management pleaded fcr ad 
journment of the case for at least two weeks on the ground that their written state 
ment could not be prepared due to other pressing work and as the workmen have 
also not submitted their written statement till then . While submitting their written 
statement on that date , the representatives of the employees # ssociation had no 
objection to the adjournment of the hearing as requested by the Management. The 
hearing was accordingly adjourned to 11th September , 1970 to be held at Calcutta . 
At this hearing , the representatives of the Association were present but those of the 
Management could not attend because of sudden cancellation of train from Ranchi 
to Calcutta due to heavy rains on the previous night. The hearing was accordingly 
adjourned again and it was resumed at Calcutta on 4th November, 1970 . The 
case was partly heard on that day when the parties were all present but the further 
bearing was adjourned to 20th November , 1970 at New Delhi to suit the convenience 
of the parties. The case was fully heard on 20th November , 1970 and the parties 
also concluded their arguments the same evening . 


4 . The contentions of the parties have been set out very elaborately in their 
statements of the case and in the rejoinders to each other s statement, and I do 
not propose to reproduce them in this Award . It is enough if I set out briefly the 
relevant facts and circumstances of the case as per their statements and the oral 
submissions made by them during the hearing before me. 

5 . The Wage Board for Coal Mining Industry which was set up by the Govern 
ment of India in August, 1962 submitted its report to the Government in February , 
1967. In Section F of Chapter VIII of its report the Wage Board recommended 
that the einoluments of the workmen as on 1st October, 1966 should form the basis 
for fixation of their pay in the scales of pay recommended by the Board . It was 
plso recommended by the majority of members of the Board ( the employers repre 
sentatives dissenting ) that its recommendations should be implemented from 1st 
January , 1967. The Board was , however , sllent, presumably through oversight, on 
the question of date of annual increment in the revised pay scales . The Govern 
ment of India , however , decided that the Board s recommendations to the extent 
they were accepted by the Government should be implemented from 15th August, 
1967. Most of the large employers ( including NCDC ) have, therefore , implemented 
the Board s recommendations including the revised scales of pay from 15th August , 
1967. All the employers in the industry took the total emoluments as on 1st 
October , 1966 for purpose of Atment in the revised scales . Some of the employers 
includiny N . C . D . C . had courted the total service put in by individual workmen till 
14th August , 1967 for granting service increments at the rate of one increment 
for every three completed years of service subject to a maximum of three incre 
ments in the revised scales of pay . But all the employers granted increments in 
the new scales on 15th August 1968 and on the 15th August of each succeeding 
year. Subsequently in the middle of 1969 some of the trade unions including the 
N . C .O . E . A . who is a party to this arbitration had started agitation for grant of 
annual increments in the revised pay scales on 1st October, 1967 and on the Ist 
October of each year thereafter. This demand of the workmen was met only hy 
two cmployers in the Industry . fully by M / s . Tata Iron & Steel Co. and partly 
by M / s . N . C . D . C ., the latter having granted an additional increment to the workmen 


SEC. 3 ( i ) ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12 , 1892 135 
G = : = - = = - - --- - - -- 

- - = = - = 
on the 15th August, 1969 1. e ., the workmen 1:1 their case were given two annual in 
crements in the revised pay scales on luua August, 1969 . This management had 
also conceded to the workmen who joined the service of the Corporation aiter 1st 
October , 1966 , the anniversary date of their joining for future increments in the 
revised pay scales . Likewise , the workmen who were promoted to higher posts after 
1st January , 1967 have been given the bencfit of annual increments to coincide with 
the anniversary dates of their promotion , Not satisnied with these concessions, the 
National Coal Organisation Employees Assoclation dernanded full implementation of 
the Wage Board s pay scales in respect of the annual increments in the revised pay 
scales . As the Wage Board s report as well as the Government s resolution accept 
ing the Board s recommendations were silent on this question , the Managem < nt of 
NCDC and the Association entered into an agreement for my arbitration of the 
issue as already stated above. 


6 . The Association in its written statement of the casc and the rejoinder uiter 
alia referred to certain cases of workmen of NCDC being placed in inappropriate 
scales of pay and to some other cases of what it thought to be improper fitment of 
the workmen in the revised pay -scales, As such cases tell outside the purview of 
the terms of reference for my arbitration , I told the representatives of the Associa 
tion accordingly and expressed my inability to deal with such cases. On the ques 
tion of annual increments to the workmen in the revised pay - scales , the Association 
pleaded that as the Wage Board was silent on this question , the respective dates of 
increment of the individual workmen in their old scales should be operative also 
In the revised pay - scales. The Association accordingly argued that if a workmen 
had joined the Corporation s service on the 2nd October, of any year before 1st 
October , 1966 , he should be entitled to the first annual increment in his new pay 
scale on the 2nd October, 1966 and on the anniversary of that date in every suc 
Weeding year, as if the revised pay scales came into force on 1st October , 1986 for 
all purposes, but for actual payment with effect from 15th August , 1967 . In support 
of their case , the Association s representatives referred to certain decisions cf the 
Supreme Court and High Courts . They are not, however , quite relevant to the issue 
under consideration . The Association even pleaded for full weightage of past ser 
vices while Atting the workmen in the revised scales of pay. Alterratively , the 
Association argued that as the workmen of the Corporation were fitted into the 
new pay scales on the basis of their total emolumenty as on 1st October, 1986 , they 
should be entitled to the Arst annual increinent on 1st October, 1967 and to sub 
sequent increments on the 1st October , of each succeeding year. 


7 . While opposing the demand of the workmen , the Management referred to the 
various concessions which they had granted to the workmen while implementing the 
Wage Board s recommendations and in particular to the additional increment grant 
ed on 15th August, 1969. They also referred to the fact that both under the Award 
of the Mazumdar Tribunal ( 1956 ) and the Arbitration Award of Shri Das Gupta 
( 1959 ) , the workmen had reached the maximum of their respective pay -srales much 
earlier than 1966 and as such they would not have earned any increment immedi 
ately before or after October, 1968 . The Management s representative argued that 
as the new scales were implemented from 15th August, 1967 , the Management 
was fully justified in granting annual increments on the anniversary date of each 
succeeding year , particularly as the Wage Board s report and the Central Govern 
ment s resolution accepting the Board s recommendations were both silent on the 
question in support of his contention , be invited attention to the practine acopt 
ed by the coal Industry under the Mazumdar Award in respect of monthly - rated 
employees and the specific recommendations ot the Arbitrator Shri Das Gupta 
whose incremental scales were implemented in respect of daily - rated workmen of the 
coal industry from 1st June, 1959 and to the rerommendations of the Woge Boards 
for Limestore and Dolomite and for Iron Ore Industries which were implemented 
from 1st January . 1967 and the annual increments mramted on the anniversary of 
those dates. It was further areued on behalf of the Managemnet that as the work 
men were guaranteed a minimum Increase of 10 per cent in their existing emolu 
merts while fixing their nav in the new grales and as they were fully comnonsnted 
for the rise in the cost of living between 1st October, 1966 and 15th August. 1967 
by means of variable DA in accordanre with the WAMA Board s formula , no hard 
shin at all was caused to them hy partngning the innlamentation of the pay scales 
and other recommendations of the Warn Roard to 15th Autuot 1967 in terms of 
the Government s resolution . The observations of the Wage Board in Dornnianhs 
13 and 14 of Chapter XVIII of its report show that the Roard itself visualised the 
possibility of its recommendations being brought into effect even after 1st April, 


136 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART 11 


= 


1967. The management also referred to the fact that as egalnst the minimum an 
nual increment of 3 paise per day ( 78 paise per month ) for a daily -rated workman 
under the Das Gupta Award and Re, 1 per month for monthly - rated workmen 
under the Mazumdar Award , the corresponding rates of increments under thte Wage 
Board s scales of pay are 10 paise per day ( Rs. 2 .60 per month ) for daily - rated 
workmen and Rs. 3 per month for monthly -rated workmen . These rates of lucre 
ments under the Wage Board s recommendations being substantially more than 
the rates under the earlier awards applicable to the coal industry, the workmen 
should not complain of any hardship on account of the principle followed by the 
Management of N . C .D . C . , in common with the other employers in the industry , of 
granting their workmen annual increments on each anniversary date from 13th 
August, 1967. 

8 . I appreciate the weight of the arguments advanced on behalf of the Manage 
ment. By granting an additional increment on 15th August, 1969 at a recurring 
cost of Rs. 40 lakhs per annum , they had practically reached the peak level of im 
plementation of the Wage Board s recommendations, and gone ahead of all other 
employers in the industry with the exception of M / s . Tata Iron & Stoel Co . Ltd . 
Any further liberalisation in regard to annual increments by this Corporation 
would not only entail further strain on its finances which have lately show some 
improvement, it would also have very wide repercussions on the entire private goc 
tor of the coal industry as also on the other public sector company , viz ., M / s . 
Singareni Colllery Co . Ltd ., who have all been struggling hard due to the koan 
competition in the industry consequent on the removal of controls on coal since 
the middle of 1967. The only employer who has granted annual incremento from 
1st October, 1967 and on the anniversary dates thereafter is M / s . Tata Iron & 
Steel Co . whose collieries being captive mines of the steel industry could afford 
to do so because they have not to compete with other employers in the Industry 
for their surylval. 

. In the circumstances , I accept the contentions of the Management of NCDC 
and decide that in view of the various orders and circulars issued by the NCDC , 
the date of increment Axed by its Management as 15th August of each year 18 
proper and justified . Consequently , the workmen will not be entitled to any relief 
under this award. The reference to me stands disposed of accordingly . 

10 . I would , however , advise the Management to pay to the NCOEA the ex 
penses incurred by its representatives ( two for each hearing ) for attending the 
hearings ( 2 at Calcutta and one at Delhi) to plead their case before me in this 
arbitration . I am suggesting this in vlew of the weak finances of the generality of 
trade unions in the country . 

(Sd.) O . VENKATACHALAM . 
Chlef Labour Commissioner ( C ) 

and Arbitration . 

( No. 8 / 93 / 70 -LR. II. ] 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 10th December 1970 
8 . O . 86 . -_ Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankola 
Colliery , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwan , and their workmen in respect of 
the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conterred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the 
Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Bankola Colliery , Post Once Ukhra, District 

Burdwan was justified in effecting a change in shift working of 
Şarvashri K . K . Bhattacharjee and S . K . Mitra , Overran , Centenary 
Incline Bankola Colliery from three shifts to 2nd and 3rd shifts in 
rotation from the 6th August , 1989 ? If not, to what relief the work 
men are entitled ? " 

[ No. 6 / 38 / 70 -LR [ I. ] 


Sra. $ (H ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 137 


( भम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

आदेशों 


नई दिल्ली , 10 दिसम्बर, 1970 


फा० मा० 86.-- - यत : फेन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबब अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में बकोला कोयला खान , डाकघर उखरा, जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्धतन्त्र से सम्बद्ध 
मियोषकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

मोर यतः केनीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब, मोद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) को भारा 10 की उपधारा 
( 1 ) सण ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उक्त विवाद को 
उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-2 के अपोन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण कलकत्ता को 
न्यबानियन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या बंकोला कोयला खान , डाकपर उखरा, जिला बर्दवान के प्रबन्धतन्त्र का सर्वश्री 

के० के ० भट्टाचार्य मौर एस० के ० मिना, प्रोवर मैन, सैंटरी इन्कलाइन बंकोला के 
पारी कार्य को 6 अगस्त , 1969 से तीन पारियों से दूसरी और तीसरी पारी के चक्रा 
नुक्रम में परिवर्तित करना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं तो कर्मकार किस अनतोष के 
हकदार हैं ? " 

[ संख्या 6/ 38/ 70- एल० प्रार 
New Delhi, the 11th December 1970 
6 . 0 . 87. - -Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of North 
Tetulmari Colliery belonging to Tețulmari Colliery Company Limited , Poet 
Once Sujua (Dhanbad ) and their workmen in regpect of the matters specified in 
tho Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2 ) . Dhanbad , Constituted under 
section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of North Tetulmari Colliers 

belonging to Tetulmart Colliery Company , Post Office Sijua ( Dhan 
bad ) in diamnissing Shri Rambaran Singh , Fan Khalasi, with effect 
from the 14th February , 1970 was justified ? If not , to what relied 
is the worlaman entitledr " 

[ No. 2/ 138/70- LR.IT. 
नई दिल्ली , 11 दिसम्बर, 197 


का०मा०87. -- प्रयत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपायस अनुसूची में विनिदिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में तेतुलमारी कोलियरी कंपनी लिमिटेड , डाकधर सिजुभा ( यनबाद ) को उत्तर 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


138 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PARE L 
- - 
सेतुलमारी कोयलाखान के प्रबन्धतन्त्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रायोगिन 
विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्याय निर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

अत :, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
( सं0 2 ) , धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या तेतुलमारी कंपनी, डाकघर सिजुमा ( धनबाद ) को उत्तर तेतुलमारी कोयलाखान 
के प्रबन्ध- मन्त्र को श्री रामबरन सिंह, पंखा खलासी को 14 फरवरी, 1970 से पदच्युत 
करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नही, तो कमेकार किस अनुतोष का 
हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० 2/ 135 / 70-एल० प्रार० 2 ] 


9 . O . 88 – .WHERFAS the CentralGovernment is of opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management of Methani Colliery , Post Office Sita 
rampur, District Burdwan , of Messrs Equitable Coal Company Limited , and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

AND WIIEREAS the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the gaid dispute for 
adjudication, 

NOW , THEREFORE, in exercise of the povers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub- section ( 1 ) 
of scction Io of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1917 (14 of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby 
refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central Government Jadustrial Tribunal, Calcutta , 
constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 


" Kecpingin view the dutics per formed by the following workmen , whether the management 

of Methani Colliery, Post Office Sitarampur, District Burdwan of Messrs Equitable 
Coal Company Limited , is justified in refusing their claim for higher category and 
d ination mentioned in colunin 4 against each under the recommendations of tho 
Wage Board for CoalMining Industry ? If not, to what relief are these workmen 
cntitled and from what date ? ". 


Sl. No . 


Name 


Present designation , 


Designation and 
category demanded . 


1. ShriSayed , 
2. ShriRasul. 
3 . Shri Gayanandra. 


- 


Fitter ( Category V ) 
l itter (Category V ) 
Lamp Mazdoor 
( Category 1) 


Fitter ( Category VB 
Fitter (Category VI) 

Lamp clearing Maz 
door ( Category II) 


__ [ No. 1/ 33/ 70- LR. I] 
का० प्रा० 88. -- यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अन पूची में विनि 
दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मसर्स इक्विटेबल कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड को मेथानी कोयला खान डाकघर 
सीतारामपुर , जिला वैर्दमान के प्रवन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


139 


मौ र यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना 
वांछनीय समझती है ; 


प्रतः, अब, प्रौद्योगकि विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद् 
बारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7-5 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक 
प्राधिकरण , कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

मनुसूची 
" क्या निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों द्वारा की जा रही अयूटियों को ध्यान में रखते हये 

मंसर्स इक्विटेबल कोल कम्पनी , लिमिटेड की मेथानी कोयला खान , डाकघर 
सोतारामपुर , जिला वर्दमान के प्रवन्धतंत्र का कोयला खनन उद्योग के लिये मजदूरी 
बोर्डकोसिफारिशों के अधीन प्रत्येक के सामने स्तम्भ 4 में उल्लिखित उच्चतर 
प्रवर्ग और पदनाम के उनके दावे को न मानना न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो ये 
कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं और किस तारीख से ? " 


नाम 


वर्तमान पदनाम 


पदनाम और प्रवर्ग जिनकी 
मांग की गई है । 


संख्या 


- - - 


- -- -- - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


-- - 

- 


-- - - - 


- 


- - - 


1 


1. श्री पद . 
2 श्रा रत्न . 
3. श्राग्यानेन्द्र . 


. फिटर (प्रवर्ग 5 ) 
. फिटर ( प्रवर्ग 5 ) 
. लैम्प मजदूर ( 


। 5 ) 


फिटर ( प्रवर्ग 6 ) 
फिटर (प्रवर्ग 6 ) 
लम्प सफाई मजदूर 

(प्रवर्ग 2 ) 


1 ) 


[सं० 1 / 33 / 70-एल० पार 


2 ] 


S . 0 . 89..- - whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Pootkee 
Colliery of Messrs Bhowra Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post Omce Kusunda, 
District Dhanbad and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal ( No . 2 ) , Dhanbad, constituted under 
Section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the action of the management of Pootkee Colliery of Mesgra 

Bhowr & Kankanee Collieries Limited , Post Office Kusunda , District 
Dhanbad was justified in refusing work to Shri Sharfuddin , Electric 
Fitter with effect from the 12th September, 1969 ? If not, to what 
relief is the workman concerned entitled ? " 

[ No. 2/ 26 / 70 -LR.II.] 


140 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART 


- 


का० प्रा० 99: - - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार को राय है कि इसस उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स भौरा कंकानी कोलियरीज लिमिटेड , डाकपर कुसुन्डा , जिला धनबाद की 
पुटकी कोयलाखान के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक प्रोबोगिक 
पिवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्याय निर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना 
यांछनीय सममती है ; 

प्रतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( प ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , फेन्द्रीय सरकार एतर 

रा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - 2 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रोसोगिक 
अधिकरण ( सं02), धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है ? 


" क्या मैसर्स भीरा कंकानी कोलियरीज लिमिटेड , डाकघर कुसुन्डा, जिला धनबाद की 

पुटकी कोयला खान , प्रवन्ध तन की श्री शद्दीन , बिजली फिटर को 12 सितम्बर, 
1969 से काम देने से इन्कार करने की कार्यवाही न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं , 
सो सम्बन्धित कर्मकार किसी अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० 2/ 26 / 70 - एल० मार० 2] 
8 . 0 , 90 .- Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
Hispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of 

hankarpur Colliery of Messrs Ukhra Minerals Private Limited , Post Onice 
Okthra, District Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified 
u the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
Upute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d ) of rub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Shankarpur Colliery of Messrs Ukhra 

Mineralg Private Limited , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwam was 
justified in dismissing Shri Kanta Harijan , Pickminer from the 19th 
May, 1970 ? If not, to what relief is the workiman entitled? " 

___ [ No. 8/ 61/ 70 - LR.II.] 


का० प्रा० 90 : - - यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स उखरा मिनरल्स प्राइवेट लिमिटट , डाकघर, उखरा जिला बर्दवान 
को शंकरपुर कोयला खान के प्रवन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके फर्मकारों के बीच एक 
जीवोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना गांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित प्रौद्योगिक अधिकरण , कलकत्ता 
को न्यायनियन के लिये निशित घरती है । 


Sec . 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 141. 


- - - 


- 


अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसर्स उखरा मिनरल्स प्राइवेट लिमिटेड, डाकघर, उखरा, जिला बर्दवान की शंकर 

पुर कोलया खान के प्रवन्धतंत्र का श्रो कारत हरिजन , पिकमाइनर को 19 मई, 


यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किन अनुतोष का हकदार है ? " 

[ सं० 8/ 31/ 70 -एल० प्रार० 2] 


S . O . 91. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bankola 
Colllery of Messrs Burrakur Coal Company Limited , Post Once Ukhra, District 
Burdwan and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 


And, whercas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta, constitutted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether in view of the nature of duties performed by Shri Sudhir Roy , 

Shale Picker , the management of Bankola Colliery of Messi s Bur 
rakur Coal Company Limited , Post Office Ukhra , District Burdwaz 
is justified in not designating him as loading Supervisor ? If not , 
to what relief is the workman entitled and from what date ? " 

[ No. 6/ 44/70 - LR.III 


का० प्रा० 91 : - यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद अनुसूची में विमि 
विष्ट विषयों के बारे में मैसर्स बुरकुर कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड, डाकपर उखरा, जिला बर्दया 
को कोला कोयलाखान के प्रवन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कमकारों के बीच एक पोयो 
चित्र विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समलती है । 

अतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये , केन्द्रीय सरकार एस . 
पारा उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 क के अधीन गठित औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , 
कलकत्ता को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या श्री सुधीर राय शेलपिघर द्वारा की गई जयटियों की प्रकृति को ध्यान में रखते हुये 

मैससे बुरकुर कोल कम्पनी लिमिटेड , डाकषर उखरा जिला बर्दवान को बंकोला 
कोयला खान के प्रबन्धतंत्र का उसे लदान पर्यवेक्षक पदनामित न करना 
न्यायोचित है ? यदि नहीं , तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है और किर 
तारीख से ? " 

[ सं० 6/ 44/ 70- एल० प्रार० ॥ 


142 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [PART 11 — 


8 . O . 92. - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Goenka 
Kajora Colliery and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
said dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , thcrefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
hdustrial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Whether the management of Goenka Kajora Colliery Of Megsrs Goenka 

Coal Company , Post Omce Ukhra, District Burdwan was justified 
in stopping from work Sarvashri Nageswar Prasad and Satanlal, 
Gope, Coal Cutting Machine Drivers and Dukhan Thakur, Coal 
Cutting Machine Mazdoor from the 17th April, 1970 ? If not , to 
what relief these workmen are entitled ? " 

[ No. 6 /41/ 70-LR.II.] 


का० प्रा० 92.---- यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट विषयों के बारे में गोयन्का कजोरा कोयला खान के प्रवन्धतंत्र से ममबद्ध नियोजकों और 
उनके कमकारों के बीच एक औद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है : 

अतः, अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 1 4 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का योग करते हुये, केन्द्रीय सरकार एसद्वारा 
उक्त विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण , कलकत्ता को 
न्यायनिर्णयन के लिये निर्देशित करती है । 

अनुसूची 
" क्या मैसस गोयन्का कोल कम्पनी , डाकघर उखरा, जिला बर्दवान को गोयन्का कजोरा 

कोयला खान के प्रवन्धतंत्र का सर्वश्री नागेस्वर प्रसाद और सतन लाल गोप , 
कोयला कर्तन मशीन चालकों और दुखन ठाकुर कोयला कर्तन मशीन मजदूर 
को 17 अप्रैल , 1970 से काम पर रोकना न्यायोचित था ? यदि नहीं , तो ये 
कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार हैं " 

[ सं० 6/ 41/ 70 - एल . आर . - 2] 
New Delhi, the 17th December 1970 
S . O . 93 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinlon that an industrial 
Uspute exists between the employers in relation to the management of Bhulan 
baree Colliery of Messrs Bhulanbaree Coal Company Limited , Post Office Pathordial 
District Dhanbad and their workinen in respect of the matters specified in the 
Scheddule hereto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clalise ( d ) of sub - section 
(1 ) ot section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ), the Central 
Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal (No. 2) Dhanbad constituted under section TA 
of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
" Having regard to the nature of job performed by the following workmen 

of Bhulanbaree Collery of Messr8 Bhulanbaree Coal Company 


SEC 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 143 


Limited , Post Office Patherdihi, District Dhanbad , whether the claim 
of the said workmen for Category IV as per the Central Coal Wage 
Board Recommendations in justificd ? If so , what relief are these 
workmen entitled and from what date ? " 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


8 . No. Name of the workmen 


1 . Sri Krishna Pada Mahate. 
2 . Sri Gondogol Digar. 
8 . Sri Dubraj Mahato . 
4 . Sri Panchanon Mahato . 
5 . Sri Umashankar Singh . 
8 . Sri Jhingur Tell. 
7. Sri Mohan Teli . 
8. Shri Seopujan Gope . 
9 . Sri Hukam Turi. 
10 . Sri Gopal Teli . 
11 . Sri Durjodhan Mahato. 
12 . Sri Haripada Bouri. 


[ No . 2 / 130 / 70- LRII ] 

KARNAIL SINGH , Under Secy . 
नई दिल्ली, 17 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 93 — यत : केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय है कि इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मेसर्स भुलनयाड़ी कोल कंपनी लिमिटेड , डाकघर पाथेरडिह, जिला धनबाद की 
भुमनबाड़ी कोयलाखान के प्रबन्धतंव से सम्बर नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों के बीच एक 
प्रायोगिक विवाद विद्यमान है ; 

और यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है ; 

प्रतः, अब, प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम, 1947 ( 1947 का 14 ) की धारा 10 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा उक्त 
विवाद को उषत अधिनियम की धारा 7 - क के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार प्रौद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
( सं . ) , धनबाद को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निर्देशित करती है । 


अनुसूची 
“मेसर्स भुलनबाड़ी कोल कंपनी लिमिटेड, डाकघर पाथेरडिह , जिला धनबाद की भुलनबाड़ी 

कोयलाखान के निम्नलिखित कर्मकारों द्वारा किए जा रहे कार्य को ध्यान में रखते 
हुए, उक्त कर्मकारों का केन्द्रीय कोयला मजदूर बोर्ड की सिफारिणों के अनुसार 
प्रवर्ग 4 का दावा न्यायोचित है ? यदि हाँ तो ये कर्मकार किस अनुतोष के हकदार 
है और किस नारीख से ? "" 


का 
संख्या 


कर्मकार का नाम 


1 श्री कृष्ण पद महतो 
2 श्री गोन्दोगल दिगर 
3 श्री धुबराज महतो 
4 श्री पंचानन महतो 


144 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART 6 


क्रम संख्या 


कर्मकार का नाम 


5 3474147 fatte 
6 श्री झिगुर तेली 
7 HIER do 
8 श्री शिवपुजन गोप 
9 H TT 

श्री गोपाल तेली 
11 श्री दुर्बोधन महतो 
12 st fua att 


[FO 2/ 130 / 70 - WRC . 2 ) 

करनेल सिंह, अवर सचिष । 


(Departmont of Labour and Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 23rd December 1970 
$ . 0 . 94. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , in the industrial dlspute botwpez 
the employers in relation to the management of Messrs Sesa Goa (Private ) Limited 
and their workmen which was received by the Central Government on the Tot 
December , 1970 . 
AUTORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , BONDAY. 

REFF RENCE NO. GCIT - 12 OF 1967 


PARTILS : 
Employers in relation to the management of Sega Goa (Private ) Ltd ., 

AND 
their workmen 


VINT : 

Shrl A . T . Zambre - Presiding Officer , 


APPEARANCES . 

For the employers. - Shri P . K . Rele , Solicitor, 
For the workmen . Shri Madan Phadnis, Advocate instructed by Shri Gourge 

Vaz , General Secretary , Goa Mining and Labour Welfare Union , 
STATE: Union Territory of Goa . 

INDUSTRY ; Iron Ore Mining. 
Bombay , dated 28th November, 1970 

AWARD 
The Government of India , Ministry of Labour Employment and Rehabilitathan , 
Department of Labour and Employment, have by their order No. 24 / 10 / 07 -LRI 
dated 16th May , 1967, referred to this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the management of M / s . 
Sesa Goa ( Private ) Ltd ., and their workmen in respect of the matters peotded 
In the following schedule : 

OCHDULJ 
1 . Whether M / s . Sesa Goa (Private ) Ltd ., are justifed in dismissing the gorylces 

Shri Avito D souza working as an auto -mechanic in the Sircaſm workshop with 
e boct from 27th December , 1983 ? 


J10 ) 


1. E GAL TIE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 145 


2. If not, to what rellet is he entitled ? " 

2 . The Circumstances giving rise to this dispute and the reference may be 
slated in brief as follows: 
The employers M / s . Sesa Goa ( Private ) Ltd ., are producers and exporters 

of iron ore and own an iron ore mine at Şircaim . The workman Shri 
Avito D souza was in their employ since 1960 and was working as a 
motor mechanic at their Sircaim garage workshop which was in 
charge of one Shri A . Conzen who was the Superintendent responsible 
for the running and maintenance of the workshop . On the 26th 
November , 1963, the Police raided the house of the workinan and found 
several automobile parts which were identified as belonging to the 
company. The police attached the parts and tools and arrested the 
workman and as the too s were identified to be belonging to the com 

pany proceeded against him in a criminal Court. 
3 . The workman remained absent from Duty from 27th November , 1963, with 
out any Intimation or authorization from the company. He was handling the tools 
in the workshop . They were missing and were found in his house anu hence the 
company charge- sheetod hlın for t 19 misconduct of theft and for his absence from 
work without permission and a departmental enquiry was held in which the enquiry 
Officer found him guilty of the two misconducts and the company dismissed him 
from service with effect from 27th December , 1963. On his dismissal the work 
man approached the Goa Mining Labour Wellare Union which by its letter dated 
20th January , 1964, raised an industrial dispute . The Assistant Labour Commis 
sioner ( Central) Vasco -da -Gama held conciliation proceedings. As the criminal 
case against the workman was pending in the Court of the Judicial Magistrate 
both the parties agreed to close the case pending the decision by the Judicial 
Magistrate . First Class and it was agreed that the union should Ale a tresh dis 
pute after the decision the Criminal Court . The case was finally decided by the 
Sessions Court Goa, Panjim on 11th March , 1966, The Sessions Judge in the 
appeal set aside the sentence passed against Sh : D Souza and acquitted him of the 
offence of theft. Thereafter the General Secretary of the Goa Mining Labour 
Welfare Union raised a dispute again . The A . I . C . ( Central) Vasco -da -Gama held 
conciliation proceedings but the dispute could not be settled and hence after his 
failure report the dispute was referred to this Tribunal as stated above. 

4 . The union by its slatement of claim has alleged that on the 26th November , 
1963, on the false allegations made by the officer of the company the police officer 
attached the automobile parts and tools from the house of the workman Shri Auito 
D souza and arrested him and kept him in custody upto 4th December, 1943. The 
workman was also ill and could not attend to duty . Accordingly he had informed 
the company about his inability . Regarding the charge of theft he has alleged 
that he did not commit any theft and had denied the offence levelled against him . 
He has contended that the articles attached from his house were given to him as 
a gift by his Kuwait employer and they belonged to him . He was also acquitted 
by the Sessions Judge and was quite innocent. But the domestice enquiry held 
by the company against him was not fair . The company had not follower the 
principles of natural justice . No opportunity was given to him to cross- examine 
the witnesses. The enquiry officer was biassed . There was no independent 
evidence and the dismissal was the result of victimization and vindictive attitude 
as he was connected with trade union activities. The union has alleged that the 
dismissal is unjustified and the same should be set aside and he should be rein 
stated . 

5 . The company has by its written statement and rejoinder opposed the refer 
ence first on technical pleas that this was an individual dispute and it had not 
assumed the character of an industrial dispute . The employees of the company 
were not members of the union and the dispute has not also been sponsored by a 
substantial number of its employees. Regarding the merits the company had 
denied the allegations that it had Aled a complaint against the workman to the 
police but he has contended that one person by name Eernado was found by the 
Police selling valuable parts of automobile in the Mapuca market and questioning 
him how he possessed the articles and getting information from him the Police 
took the workman into custody and went with him to the officer of the company 
and requested the officer to accompany him to the residence of the workmon where 
the Police conducted a search and attached a large number of automnltle narts 
and tools and Anally prosecuted him in the Court of the Judicial Magistrate First 
Class . The employers have contended that the Judicial Magistrate First Class had 
in fact found the workman guilty of " offence of misconduct of theft of the 
company s property but the workman was acquitted in Appeal by the Session : 


146 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II - 


SH 


court on technical considerations and irregularity in the procedure. The enquiry 
was quite fair , The workman had taken part in the enquiry . Every opportunity 
was given to him . There was independent evidence before the enquiry officer. 
He found him guilty of the two charges and the order of dismissal was justified . 


6 . In support of their contention the union has examined its Generul Sec. elary 
and has produced some documents to show that the company had disinissed some 
persons in the year 1962 when there was a strike. The union has also examined 
the workman Shri Avito D Souza and his wife Mrs . Magdalene D Souza . The 
company has examined the enquiry officer Shri Naik and has also produced the 
papers of the enquiry and I shall Arst discuss the technical pleas . 


. 


7 . The union s General Secretary Shri Vaz has stated that lie caine to Goa 
after liberation and was approached by the workers of Sesa Goa and requested to 
form a union . He held a meeting and an ad hoc committee was formed . He him 
self was the President. He has further stated in June, or July , 1962, the workers 
had made demands to the company for waiting charges . There was a strile and 
demonstrations and the workers were threatened by the company with dismissal 
and actually some of them were dismissed . He was arrested at the time of Chinese 
aggression and when he came back he learned that the workman Shri Avito 
D Souza was under arrest and so he had gone to the Mapusa Police Station to 
make enquiries , and after the dismissal he had raised an industriai dispute in 
1964 and at that time Shrl Naik had attended the conciliation on behalf of the 
company . 


8 . The cvidence of the General Secretary Shri Vaz clcarly prove that the 
employees of the company were the meinbers of the Goa Mining Labour Welfare 
Union and he has raised the dispute and I do not find any substance in the conten 
tion that the employees of the company were not the members of the Union . It 
is true that the union has not produced the resolution by which the dispute was 
sponsored . However , it is clear from the failure report and other documents 
received along with the order of reference that the employers had not raised any 
contention before the Conciliation Omcer that the dispute was not raised proper 
ly by the union . While stating the facts I have already mentioned that Police 
had filed a complaint against the workman before the Judicial Magistrate First 
Class and at the time of the conciliation both the parties agreed to close the case, 
The papers which were sent along with the reference order contain the copt, of 
the agreement about closing the case . This agreement shows that Shri Nalk the 
management witness who was the Labour Officer of the company was represent 
ing the company and the union was represented by Shri Vaz. According to the 
terms of the settlement the union had agreed not to press the demand and was 
free to take up the dispute as # fresh one afterwards. The very fact that the 
company had signed the agreement with the union shows that they had accepted 
the position of the union as the representative union of the workers. The dispute 
regarding the dismissal of the workman was raised by the union . It is an in 
dustrial dispute and this Tribunal shall have jurisdiction to deal with it, 


9 . The learned Counsel Shri Madan Phadnis for the union has argued that 
because the workman had taken part in the strike and demonstrations in the year 
1962 he was threatened and his dismissal is the result of the vindictive attitude 
of the company as he was taking part in the union activities . It has been further 
contended that the company had Aled a complaint against the workman and had 
victimized him . However , considering the enguiry papers and the statement of 
the workman himself I do not ind any substance in this contention . The workman 
who has been examined has admitted the correctness of his statement before the 
enquiry officer except two sentences and it is clear from his statement that the 
company had not initiated the criminal proceedings against him . He has stated : 

" Q . Did the police come to your place on the 26th November at night ? 
As. Yes. One police, and one boy , by name Barnnad to iny place . 
Q . What happened afterwards ? 


As. They told me to come to the police station . Accordingly I went with 

them . There the police inspector showed me a list containing some 
automobile parts and asked me if I had given them to Barnnad to 
sell to which I admitted . Then they took me to Tivim and picked 
M / s . Conzen and Altrus Meyer, Omncials of the company and all went 
to my place then police searched my house and removed all the 
spare automobile parts lying in my house ." 


SEC . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 147 


This statement of the workman clearly supports the company is case that the 
workman was arrested on the basis of the statement of one person Barnnad to 
whom he had given the articles for disposal and the present version that the 
company had Aled a criminal complaint against him cannot be accepted , 

10 . The learned Counsel has further argued that the enquiry held against 
the workman was not fair . He was not given an opportunity and the manage 
ment has violated the principles of natural justice . It is clear from the record 
that the charge- sheet dated 6th December, 1963 was issued to the Workman . The 
charge- sheet clearly stated that while his house was raided by the police he was 
found in possession of the materials belonging to the company and further that 
he had absented himself from duty without any intimation . He had also given 
an explanation and afterwards an enquiry was held against him on the 14th 
December, 1963. He was to attend the enquiry at 10 A . M , but us he did not 
come the enquiry officer examined the company s witness Shri Conzen and re 
corded his statement. The workman went to the enquiry officer at about 11. 30 a . m . 
when the company s witnesses had left. The workman requested the enquiry om 
cer to allow him to take part in the enquiry . Thereupon the enquiry officer 
explained to him that the examination of the company s witness was over and 
he had left and it would not be possible to call him back immediately . But the 
workman requested him that he should be examined alone and his evidence should 
be recorded and thereupon the enquiry officer examined him . The enquiry on 
cer had specifically asked him whether he wanted to cross -examine the com 
pany s witness to which the workman had stated that he did not want to cross 
examine Shri Conzen and there is no substance in the Union s contention that 
the workman was not given an opportunity to cross -examine the witness . 

11 . Regarding, the contention that there was no evidence before Enquiry Om 
cer . I have already stated that the workman has admitted before me that his 
statement except two sentences is correct . He has stated : 
“ The enquiry before Shri Naik was fixed at 10 a .m . It is correct to say 

that I attended the enquiry office and went to him at about 11 - 30 a . m . 
I did not meet the Enquiry Omcer on that day before 11- 30 a . m . 
After I saw the Enquiry Omcer he told me that the statement of 
Shri Conzen was recorded and he had left. 


The Enquiry Ollicer recorded my statement. He asked me certain questions. 

My whole statement before the Enquiry Omcer is read out now , there 

are two sentences which are in correctly recorded ." 
Shri Conzen has stated before the Enquiry Oficer that he saw many automobile 
spare parts at the residence of the accused ; 
" I saw many automobile spare parts and identifed them as belonging to 

the company and told the police accordingly ." 
It has also come in ovidence that the company prepared every year a list of 
missing tools of the workshop and Shri Conzen has produced the list before the 
enquiry officer . The list included many articles which were shown under tiek 
mark as missing and they are found in the house of D Souza . He høs further 
stated that the Mechanical Jack ( Faun ) and Oil Jack Cima were possessed 
only by the company . He was not cross -examined . The enquiry officer had be 
lieved his evidence and the contention now raised that there was no evidence 
before the enquiry officer is not well founded . 

12 . It was further contended that though the Judicial Magistrate . First Class 
had convicted the workman of the offence of theft of the tools the Sessions Court 
had acquitted him and this proved that he had not committed the theft. I do 
not think that the acquittal of the workman will come in the way of the manage 
ment or will entiile the workman to get the result of the Andings of the domestic 
enquiry set aside . The management has produced the copies of the judgment of 
the Judicial Magistrate and also a copy of the judgment of the Appellate Court 
and it is clear that the Sessions Judge has acquitted the workman on technical 
grounds . It appears that hefore the trial Magistrate one prosecution witness was 
examined after the defence statement of the accused and the prosecution had 
closed its case The learned Judge has observed : 
“ The cxamination of this prosecution witness after the written statement 

of the appellate was filed which statement appears to have been 
made in lieu of the examination of the appellant under Section 342 
of the Criminal Procedure Code and after all the defence witnesses 
have been examined must have prejudiced the appellant and more 


140 


50 because the appellant was not examined under section 342 of the 
Criminal Procedure Code." 


The Judicial Magistrate had held that the mechanical jack was proved to be 
belonging to the Sesa Goa Private Ltd ., because of the list of machine tools etc., 
but according to the Appellate Court the list were not proved . The learned Judge 
has observed : 
" Coming to the point ( b ) of paragraph 9 namely that the mechanical jack 

was found missing by Şesa Goa it appears that the fact was const 
dered as proved by the learned Magistrate because of certain lists 
missing tools of Sesa Goa . The lists have not been duly proved and 
probably it is for that reason the learned Magistrate placed them in 
Ale 2 " 


In the result the learned Session Judge observed that the prosecution had failed 
to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant had committed the offence . 
Thus it is clear that the appellant was acquitted because of benefit of doubt and 
the circumstance that the workman was acquitted in the appellate Court will not 
be suficient to prove that findings of the enquiry officer are perverse Shri Rele 
the learned Counsel on behalf of the management has argued that in a domestic 
enquiry the tribunal has to see only it a prima facie case has been made out. 
The standard of proof in a domestic enquiry is not the same as in a criminal 
trial, The learned Counsel has relied upon the ruling reported in 1959 , II,LLI , 
page 245 - - Balipura Tca Estate in which it has been observed that a tribunal 
could not insist upon conclusive proof of guilt. The learned Counsel has also in 
vited my attention to the ruling reported in 1970 , ILLJ, 718 in which it has been 
observed : 
" The Judgement of a criminal Court acquitting an accused on the merits of 

a case would not bar disciplinary proceedings against him on the 
basis of the same facts . The reason is that the criminal Court re 
quired a high standard of proof for convincing the accused . Such 
a standard of proof is not required in disciplinary proceedings ." 


These observations clearly support the management. It cannot be ignored that 
the purpose of the domestic enquiry is quite different from that of a criminal trial 
and merely because the workman is acquitted the decision of the domestic enquiry 
cannot be set aside , 


14 . Shri Madah Phadnis on behalf of the union has further argued that the 
management knew that the criminal case for the offence of theft of the company s 
property was pending before the Magistrate and it was not proper on their part 
to hold the enquiry , and the enquiry ought to have been stayed and the manage 
ment ought to have waited till the result of the criminal case . The learned Coun 
sel has relied upon the ruling reported in 1960 1LLJ page 520 Delhi Cloth and 
General 2 . Kushal Bhan Mills and 1964 II LLJ 113 ( Tata Oil Mills Company Ltd ., 
and its workmen by the Tata 011 Mills Workers Union , Ernakulam & another ) . 
In the second ruling their Lordships have quoted the observations in their first 
ruling and observed : 
" As held in Delhi Cloth and General Mills Ltd . V . Kushal Bhan ( 1960 1 

LLJ 520 ) it is desirable that if the incident giving rise to a chargo 
framed against a workman in a domestic enquiry is being tried in 
A criminal court the employer should stay the domestic enquiry pen 
ding the Anal disposal of the criminal case . It would be particularly 
appropriate to adopt such a course where the charge against the 
workman is of a grave character because in such a case it would be 
unfair to compel the workman to disclose the defence which he may 
take before the criminal court . But to say that domestic enquiries 
may be stayed pending criminal trial is very different from gøying 
that if an employer proceeds with the domestic enquiry in spite of 
the fact that the criminal trial is pending the enquiry for that reason 
alone is vitiated and the conclusion reached in such an enquiry le 
either bad in law or mala Ade." 


I do not think that this ruling will help the union . The workman was charged 
for the offence of theft . Admittedly he was in possession of the property. The 
defence of the workman was that the property belonged to him . There is no 
question of the defence of the workman being prejudiced and the enquiry being 
vitlated and the order of dismissal being bad on that account. 


SEC. 3 (ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 149 


15 . Shri Phadnis on behalf of the union has further argued that the workman 
was also charged to rthe misconduct of a absenting himself from duty without 
initimation and authorization from the management. The company had no stand 
ing orders nor were there any service rules and under the circumstances remain 
ing absent without authorization was not misconduct and the workman could 
not have been charged for his absence and the order is illegal, 

16 . The incident took place in the month of November , 1963 . Shri Naik the 
company s witness has stated that the Standing Orders Act was made applicable 
to Goa in the year 1964 and the management had sent a draft of standing orders 
for pproval and certifcation of the certifying officer and it shall have to be 
accepted that there were no standing orders at the time when the enquiry was 
held . However , I do not think that this circumstance will render the order of 
dismissal illegal. The workman was arrested by the Police and remained absent. 
The management had not suspended him and it was expected of him as per his 
service contract to attend to duty during the period of service. It is not in 
dispute that the workman had remained absent from 27th November , 1963 till 
he was dismissed . It is true that the police had arrested him on the 27th Noyem 
ber , 1963 but it has come in evidence that he was released on the 4th December, 
1983 and he ought to have made an application for leave if there was any valid 

The 
reason . His absent after release on ball has not been explained by him . 
Enquiry Oncer has disbelieved his story that he was unwell and the circumstances 
Indicate that the workman did not report for duty because of the incident. 

17 . The learned Counsel has invited my attention to the ruling reported in 
1963 II LLJ page 638 ( Buckingham and Carnatic Co . Ltd ., and Venkatayya and 
another ) in which the following obseryations have been made: - - 
" It is true that under common law the inference that an employee has 

abandoned or relinquished service is not easily drawn unless from 
the length of absence and from other surrounding circumstances an 
inference to that effect can be legitimately drawn and it can be 
assumed that the employee intended to abandon service , Abandon 
ment or relinquishment of service is always a question of intention , 
and normally such an intention cannot be attributed to an employee 
without adequate evidence in that behalf. But where parties agree 
upon the terms and conditions of service and they are included in 
certified standing orders the doctrines of common law and consi. 
derations of equity would not be relevant. It is then a matter of 
construing the relevant terms itself. Hence under the first part of 
the relevant standing order an employee remaining absent for eight 
consecutive days without leave shall be deemed to have terminated 
his contract of service and thus relinquished or abandoned his 

employment." 
18 . I do not think that this ruling requires a written standing order for 
treating absence on duty as a misconduct. The ruling merely says that when 
there is a standing order it is not necessary to decide the intention of the 
employee whether he has abandoned service or not and then it is only a question 
of the construction of the standing order. The learned Counsel has not shown me 
any ruling that without a written standing order absence from duty cannot be 
treated as misconduct. In my opinion any conduct or any act of the employee 
which renders him unfit for the employment or shows his bad conduct will be 
misconduct. It is the duty of every employee to attend regularly to his work 
and if a person does not attend to his work it is a dereliction of duty . It is a 
bad conduct and this action in not attending duty can be treated as misconduct . 

19 . The evidence clearly shows that the management had held a proper 
enquiry . Every opportunity was given to the workman to meet the case . There 
is no violation of the principles of natural justice nor is there any victimization 
or mala fides. There is no ground to interfere with the order and the employers 
are justifed in dismissing the workman and he is not entitled to any relief, 
Hence my award accordingly , 
No order as to costs. 

( Sd .) A . T. ZAMBRE, 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Bombay . 
(No. 24 / 10 / 67-LR -I (LR - IV ) . ] 

P , me 


150 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART 11 


- - 


- 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 24th December 1970 
S . O . 95 . - In pursuance of Section 17 of the Induytrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 47 of 1947 ) , Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Madras , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Management of Messry P . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madras- 1 
and their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 15th 
December , 1970 . 

BEFORE THE INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , MADRAS 

Wednesday , the 2nd day of December , 1970 
PRESENT ; 
Thiru S . Swamikkannu, B . Sc., M . L ., Industrial Tribunal. 

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE No. 2 of 1970 
( In the matter of the dispute for adjudication u / a 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial 

Disputes Act, 1947, between the workmen and the management of M / s . P . 

Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madras) . 
BETWEEN : 
The President. P . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Employees Union , No. 11, 
Philips Street , Madras - 1 . 

AND 
M / s. P . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , No. 24, North Beach Road , Madras- 1. 
REFERENCE 
Order No, 29 / 60 / 89 - Fac . II , dated 22nd , December , 1969 of the Ministry of 

Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation ( Department of Labour and 

Employment) , Government of India , New Delhi. 
This dispute coming on this day for final disposal upon perusing the reference , 
Claim and Counter Statements and all other material papers on record and upon 
hearing the arguments of Thiruvalargal, B . R . Dolia and A . I.. Somayaji, Advocates 
appearing for the union and of Thiruvalargal M . R . Narayanswamy and R . Sam 
pathkumar, Advocates appearing for the Management and the parties having 
Aled a joint memorandum of settlement and this Tribunal rerording the same, 
made the following . 

AWARD 
This is an industrial dispute between the rmployer s in ril. tion to the Manage 
ment of M / s . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madray- 1 and their workmen referred 
in Order of Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabili 
tation ( Department of Labour and Employment) New Dellal, dated 22 - 12 - 1969 in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedue hereunder : 
" 1 . Whether the management of M / s. P . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madras - I 

are paying Dearness Allowance to the monthly paid office staff em 
ployed by them according to the recommendations of the Wage Board 
appointed under Government of India s Resolution No. W . B . -21 (4 ) /64 
dated 13th November 1964 and if not what is the relief to which the 

workers are entitled and from which date ? 
2 . Is the existing structure regarding designation and classification of the 

monthly paid staff by the Management of M / s , P . Devarajooloo Naidu 
& Son , Madras- 1 satisfactory ? If not, what should be the proper 
designation and classification and from which date should it be 

effective ? 
3. What should be the seniority of the monthly paid staff employed by 

M / s , P , Deyarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madras - 1 and from which date 

should the seniority take effect, 
4 . Whether the management of M / s . P . Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madras- 1 

are justified in paying bonus for the years 1966 -67 and 1968 at the 
rate of 4 per cent to its employee ? If not, what should be the quan 

tum of bonus and from which date should it be paid ? 
5 . Whether the management are justifled in paying only 64 per cent as 

Provident Fund Contribution to their staff ? If not, what should be 

the rate of contribution ? " 
2 . The claimant union filed a Claim Statement on 14th February 1970 putting 
forth its case. 

3 . The respondent management filed their counter statement denying the 
allegations in the dispute , on 5th March 1970 . 


SEC. 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 151 

- - : - - . - " 
4 . Both the parties to the dispute are present, Memorandum of settlement 
Aled . It is recorded so far as it relates to the subject matter of the reference . 
An award is passed in terms of settleinent. The terms of settlement will form 
part of the award . 

(Sd .) S. SWAMIKKANNU, 

Iniciustrial Tribunal. 
Memorunduin of Settlement 
Memoranduin of settlement entered into between the Workmen of Messrs P . 
Devarajooloo Naidu & Son reported by the President P . D . N . & Son Employees 
Union and the Management of P . Devarajoolon Naidu & Son datod 30th November 
1970. 
T722 workomen represented by - S . M . Narayanan , President, P . D . N . & Son 

Employees Union , 
The management represented by - P . Gopalarathnam , Partner , M / s . P . 

Devarajooloo Naidu & Son , Madirls . 
Whereas the parties above named had discussions and negotiations on 24 - 8 - 1970 in 
regard to disputes betwcen the two and whereas certain of the said items of disputes 
are matters pending aijudication before the ( Central Government) Industrial 
Tribunal Madra , in 1. D . 2 of 1970 and whereas the parties have met and agreed 
and arrived at conclusion regarding the demands which are in dispute . 

Now this settleincnt witnesseth as follows:-- - 

1. The management agrecs to pay dearness allowance as claimed by the work 
men in I. D , No. 2 of 1970 in accordance with the Wage Board Recommendations 
with effect from 1 - 10 - 1964 , to all their workmen excepting the following work 
men whose claim for the Central Wage Board Recommendations has been referr 
ed to an arbitrator. 

1 . Appavoo . 
2 . Ad .moolam 
3 . Balaram . 
4 . Volu . 

5 . Vellai. 
2 . The management agrees to contribute provident fund at the rate of 8 - 1 / 3 
per cent in case of all the workmen with effect from 1 - 9 - 1970. 

3 . It is a yreed between the parties that the designation of employees now 
existing should continue as, per Annexure I, art the management agrees to rc 
ckone the seriority of the enployees as per the list attached hcreto As Annexure 
II. The seniority for the purpose of promotion and other benefits will be reckoned 
on the basis of the number of years of service put in by each employee in a parti 
cular category and for purposes of retrenchment in case effected at a future date , 
the entire servicec put in the organisation by cach Dock Supervisor and Dock 
Clerk should be taken into consideration even as envisaged under section 25 F . 
read with 25 G . of the Industrial Disputes Act irrespective of the category in 
which the Dock Supervisor or Docir Clerk was engaged . 

4 . The management agrees to pay bonus from the calendar years 1965 to 1969 
at the rate of 4 per cent and for the year 1970 at the rate of 17 and a half per 
cent . The Management further agrees to pay bonus to Sri Vellai at the same rate 
at which other workmen are paid bonus for all the years for which he was not 
paid bonus. 

5 . The Management agrecs to grant one increment to the following persons 
from January 1070 ; 

1 . P . A . Jotheeswaran , 
2 . N . K , Ethirajulu , 
3 . S . B . Ramachandran , 
4 . R . Ramanathappa , 
5 . T . C . Narayanan , 
1. P . S . Vinayagam , 

i. N . R . Krishnamurthy. 
uile management agrees and assures that the salary of the workmen will be 
disbursed on the 5th working day or on or before seventh date of every month , 

( Sd.) P . GOPALARATIINAM , 
President 

Partner, 
P . D . N . & Son Employces Union . 

P . Davarajooloo Naidu & Son . 


1 52 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART T 


ANNEXURE I 


$ . No, 


Name 


Designation 


onainWNH 


.... 


I Sri N . Muthuswamy 
2 Sri N . K . Ithirujuju 
3 Sri K . R . Varadarajulu 

P . A . Jotheeswaran 
Sri T . J . Chitti Babu 
6 Şti R . Ramanathappa 

Sri A . Ramakrishnan 
Sri S . B . Ramachandran 
Sri R , Thanickachalam 
Sri S . Sriramulu 
Sri T . Nagarajulu 
Sri K . Veeraraghavan 
ŞTİ R Venkat Rao 
Sri T . C . Narayanan 
Sri N . Ramamurthy 
Sri J . Rajarathnam 
Sri K . Thangavelu 
Sri R . Victor 

Sri D , Balakrishnan 
20 Sri N . R . Krishnamurthy 

Sri K . L . Subramani 
Sri P , S . Vinayagam 

S . Subramani 
Sri P . Jayaram 

Sri A , Appavoo 
26 Sri T . Adimoolam 

Sri P . V . Balaram 
28 Sri R . Velu 
29 Sri Vellai 
30 Sri P . Thiruvengadam 
31 Sri D . Christopher 
32 Sri M . K . Krishna Doso 
33 . K . Minuswami 


Ship Chandling Clerk 
Duck Supervisor 
Dock Clerk 
Dock Supervisor 
Labour Inderting Clerk 
Dock Clerk 
Dock Supervisor 
Dock clerk 
Dock Supervisor 
Lahoi r Ir dentirg Clerk 
Customs Supervisor 
Duck Clerk 
Dock Supervisor 
Office Clerk 
Dock Clerk 
Gear Forcmen 
Dock Supervisor 
Dock Supervisor 
Gear Forernen 
Dock Supervisor 
Labour Indenting Clerk 
Dock Clerk 
Dock Supervisor 
Crew Clerk 
Mazdoor 
Mazdoor 
Mazdoor 
Mazdoor 
Mazdoor 
Assistant Cashier 
Typist 
Steno- typist 
Ofice boy 


19 


........................... 


• 


ANNBXURB II 


S . No. 


Name 


I Date of Date of 
promotion Appointment 


1. Dock Supervisors 
1 Shri A . Ramakrishnan 


. 


2 


toanaut 


Sri R . Venkat Rao 
Sri K . Thangavelu 
Sri R . I hạnickachalam 
Sri R . Victor 
Sri N . R . Krishnamurthy . 
Sri S . Subramaniam 
Sri P . A . Jotheeswaran 
Sri N . K . Ethirajulu 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


October 

1952 
3 - 2 - 1956 

1 - 4 - 1958 
June, 1966 April 1954 
June, 1966 1 - 4 - 1958 
I - II - 1969 23 - 5 - 1958 

I - II - 1969 
16 - 1 - 1970 3 - 3 - 1950 
20 - 2 - 197 5 - 6 - 1946 


taTV 


II. Dock Clerks ; 
I Sri N . Ramamurthi 

Sri K . Veeraraghavan 
Sri K . R . Varadaraj 
Sri R , Ramapathappa 
Sri S . B . Ramachandran 
Sri P . $ . Vinayagam 


. 
. 
. 
. 
. 
. 


June, 1965 

1 - 7 - 1969 
16 - 1 - 1970 
16 - 1 - 1970 
16 - 1 - 1970 


16 - 9 - 1957 
18 - 8 - 1955 
5 - 3 - 1948 
5 - 1 - 1952 
3 - 10 - 1953 
16 - 3 - 1967 


SEC . 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


153 


S . No . 


Name 


Date of Date of 
paomotion Appointment 


III. Labour Indenting Clerks 


. 


. 


Jan . 1966 


I 
2 
3 


Sri T . J. Chitti Babu 
Sri S . Sri Ramulu 
Sri K . L . Subramani 


1- 8 - 1951 
I - 12 - 1954 
I - II- 1962 


· 


, 


, 


, 


Jan . 1966 


IV . Customs Supervisors : 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


I - II 


1-11-1969 


October , 


1955 


1. Sri T. Nagarajulu . 
V . Smp Chandling Clerks : 
1. Sri N . Muthuswamy . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


July 1942 


VI. Crew Clerks : 


1. Sri P . Jayaram 


Sept . 1960 


VII. Gear Foreman : 


1. Sri J. Rajarathnam 
2 . Sri D . Balakrishnan 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


19 -7 - 1948 
22 -5 - 1958 


VIII. Office Clerkes : 
1. Sri T. C . Narayanan 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. , 


October, 
1957 


IX . Assistant Casher : 
1. Sri P. Thiruvengadam 

X . Stono- Typists : 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Junc , 1951 


1. Sr . M . K . Krishna Doss 


Junc, 1965 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


.. 


February 


XI. Typist : 
1. Sri D . Christopher 
XII. Office Boys : 
I. Sri K . Munuswami 


1953 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. . . 


1 - 5 - 1970 


XIII. Masdoors : 


1944 
1944 


I . Sri Appavoo 
2 . Sri Adimoolam 
3 . Sri Balaraman 
4 . Sri Velu 
5. Sri Vellai 


1949 
1949 
1958 


Witness Examined for both sides 
Documents marked for both sides 


· None 

Nil. 


[No, 29 /11 


Pape. . 


154 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [Part II--- 


ORDER 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1970 


S . O . 96 . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Bombay Port Trust , 
Bombay and their workmen In respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 (14 of 1947 ), the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay , constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 


DULE 


" Whether the action of the management of the Bombay Port Trust, Bombay, 

in removing from service Shri V . D . Gholkar , Clerk A scale with 
effect from the afternoon of the 6th September , 1969 , was justified ? 
If not , to what relief the workman is entitled ? " 


[ No. 73/ 10 / 70 - P & D . ] 


AJIT CHANDRA , Under Secy . 


( धार और रोजगार विभाग ) 

प्रादेश 

नई दिल्ली, 25 दिसम्बर, 1970 
का० प्रा० 96 यतः केन्द्रीय सरकार की राय कि इससे उपाबद्ध प्रासूची में विनिर्दिष्ट 
विषयों के बारे में मुम्बई पत्तन न्यास , मम्बई के प्रबन्धतंत्र से सम्बद्ध नियोजकों और उनके कर्मकारों 
के बीच एक प्रौद्योगिक विवाद विद्यमान है । 

और यन : केन्द्रीय सरकार उक्त विवाद को न्यायनिर्ण यन के लिए निर्देशित करना वांछनीय 
समझती है । 

प्रत ., अब , प्रौद्योगिक विवाद अधिनियम , 1947 ( 1947 का 14) की धारा 10 की उप 
धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( घ ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए , केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्द्वारा उस 
विवाद को उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 7- 2 के अधीन गठित केन्द्रीय सरकार औद्योगिक प्रधिकरण 
मम्बई को न्यायनिर्णयन के लिए निदेशित करती है । 


प्रमुसची 
" क्या मुम्बई पत्तन न्यास मुम्बई के प्रबन्धन की श्री वी० डी० धोलकर लिपिक ए 
घेतनमान को 6 सितम्बर , 1969 के अपराहन से मेवा से हटाने की कार्यवाही 
न्यायोचित थी ? यदि नहीं तो कर्मकार किस अनुतोष का हकदार है ? 

[ मं0 73/ 10/ 70-पी० एण्ड डी० ] 

अजीत चन्द्र , 
अवर सचिव । 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


155 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


( श्रम और रोजगार विभाग ) 

नई दिल्ली, 19 मई, 1969 
का० आ . 1917 - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 
5 की उप-धारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 5 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह पर विचार करने के पश्चात केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतद्वारा, इससे उपाबद्ध अनसूची के स्तम्भ 2 की प्रविष्टियों में यथा विनिर्दिष्ट संदेय मजदूरी 
की न्यूनतम वर कर्मचारियों के उन प्रवर्गों के लिए नियत करती है जो ( 1 ) सडकों के संनिर्माण या उनके 
अनुरक्षण ; या भवननिर्माण के काम में ; ( 11 ) पत्थर तोड़ने या पत्थर का चूरा करने में ; 
(iii ) भवनों के अनुरक्षण में ; और ( iv ) घावन -पथ के संनिर्माण और अनुरक्षण में के नियोजनों में 
नियोजित ह जसा कि उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 1 की तत्सम्बन्धी प्रविष्टियों में विनिर्दिष्ट है , और निदेश 
देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई, 1968 को प्रवृत्त होगी । 

अन सूची 


काम का प्रवर्ग 


सब मिलाकर प्रति दिन मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दर 
क्षेत्र क्षत्र क्षत क्षेत्र क्षत्र 
ए ) बी01 बी०2 सी० डी० 


1 


मकुशल : 

रु०० रु० पै० रु० पै० रु०प० २०१० 
( 1 ) बजरी बिछाने वाला, ( 2 ) बेलदार (व्यस्थ 

पुरुष प्रादमी ; वयस्थ महिला स्त्री ; 12 
वर्ष से ऊपर के कुमार । लड़के ; लड़कियां ; 
बच्चे ) ; ( 3 ) गेंती वाली, ( 4) धौंकनी वाला , 
( 5 ) जरीब वाला , ( 6) नाविक, ( 7) बाल्टी 
वाला , ( 8 ) ( पत्थर ) ढोने वाला , ( 9 ) ( पानी ) 
ढोने वाला, ( 10 ) गाड़ी वाला , ( 11 ) अभि 
क्षक (पुल ), ( 12) क्लीनर ( क्रेन ट्रेक ; राख 
के गढ़े के लिए सिण्डर ), ( 13 ) चौकीवार 
( 14) कैक्रीट ( हस्त मिश्रक ), ( 15 ) 
दफादार, ( 16 ) चालक ( बैल ; ऊंट ; गधे ; 
खच्चर ) , ( 17 ) अंडी वाला, ( 18 ) झंडी 
वाला ( बलास्ट ट्रेन ) , ( 19 ) दरबान , ( 20 ) 
गेंग मैन , ( 21 ) गेंग मैन ( रेल पथ ), ( 22 ) 
है उल मैन, ( 23 ) जम्फर मैन , ( 24 ) कामिन 
( महिला काम ), ( 25 ) खलासी, ( 26 ) 
खलासी ( प्रादनी | पुरुष ; स्त्री | महिला ; 
लड़के / लड़कियां ; 1/ 11, पुल ; बिजली ; 
जहाजी ; मोपला ; तट ; भण्डार ; भाप का 
सड़क इंजन , सर्वेक्षण ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


. . 


. 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


रु० ३० 


रु० १० १० १० २०१० रु० पै० 
( 27) श्रमिक (उद्घाटन ), ( 28) बत्ती 
वाला, ( 29 ) माली, ( 30 ) मजदूर , ( 31 ) 
मजदूर ( वयस्थ पुरुष / आदमी ; धयस्थ 
महिला | स्त्री ) ( 32 ) मजदूर ( 12 वर्ष की 
पायु से ऊपर के कुमार / लड़के ; लड़कियां ; 
बच्चे ; लौरी ; प्रशिक्षिप्त ) ( 33 ) पेट्रोल 
वाला ( 34 ) धपरासी ( 35 ) तलाश करने 
वाला, ( 36 ) सिंगनल मैन, ( 37 ) स्ट्राइकर 
( 38 ) झाडूकश ( 40 ) टाटी बाय , ( 41 ) टाइल 
टर्नर, ( 42 ) ट्रोली वाला , ( 43 ) वाल्व 
नियंत्रक , ( 44 ) वाल्व मैन , ( 45 ) पहरेदार 
( 46 ) पानी वाला, ( 47 ) सफेदी करने वाला 
( 48 ) लकड़ी वाला , ( 49 ) लकड़ी वाली 
( 50 ) बोरी मैन, ( 51 ) कोयले वाला, ( 52 ) 
फंडेन्सस अटेंडेन्स, ( 53 ) घास काटने वाला , 
( 54 ) मुकर्स जमादार , ( 55 )स्लिंगर , ( 56 ) 
शंटर, ( 57 ) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले 
अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अकुशल किस्म के हैं 

3 . 50 3 . 20 2 . 90 2 . 60 


2 . 40 


पर्धकुशल । अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 

( 1 ) बेलचा वाला , ( 2) भिस्ती , ( 3)भिस्ती 
( मसक के साथ ) , ( 4 ) नाविक ( प्रधान ) , 
( 5 ) ब्रेकर, ( 6 ) प्रेकर ( चद्रान ; चट्टानी 
पत्थर ; स्टोन मेटल, पत्थर ), ( 7 ) बेंत की 
बुनाई करने वाला ( 8 ) जरीब वाला (प्रधान ) 
( 9) चारपाई बुनने वाला , ( 10) चैकर , ( 11 ) 
चौकीवार (प्रधान ) ( 12) क्रेकर ( 13 ) 
दफ्तरी , ( 14 ) डोली वाला , ( 15 ) बरमा 
वाला, (16) बरमा वाला छेद ; 
चट्टान ), ( 17) ड्राइवर (स्किन ) , 
( 18 ) उत्खनक , ( 19 ) फैरोमेन , ( 20 ) फायर 
मैन , ( 21 ) फायरमैन ( ईट भट्टा ; भाप का 
सड़क इंजन ) , ( 22 ) द्वारा पाल ( 23 ) 
धारमी ( छप्पर छाने वाला ) ( 24 ) ग्लास 
मैन, ( 25 ) ग्रिस देने वाला , ( 28 ) ग्रिस देने 
बाला एवं फायर मैन, ( 27) ग्रिण्डर , ( 28 ) 
हयोड़े वाला , ( 29 ) मददगार ( कारीगर ), 


11 . L . I. LLA . JANUAR , 2, 1 / 1/ PAUSA 12, 1 .. 11 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


रु०५० रु०१० रु०५० रु०५० २०१० 
( 30 ) मददगार ( पाराकश) , ( 31 ) जमा 
दार, ( 32 ) चाबीवाला, ( 33 ) खलासी प्रधान 
सर्वेक्षण ; रिवेटर-मोपला गग ; सर्वेक्षक ) , 
( 34 ) श्रमिक ( चट्टान काटने वाला ) ( 35 ) 
लसकर, ( 36 ) माली ( प्रधान ) , ( 37) मेट 
( 38 ) मेट ( लहार ; सड़क ; बढ़ाई ; इंजन 
ड्राइवर और / या फीडर ; फिटर ; गेंग ; 
खलासी ; मजदूर राज ; रेल पथ ; पम्प 
ड्राइवर ; टर्नर ), ( 39 ) मजदूर ( भारी 
वजन ; चार्ज मैन ; मिस्त्री ; प्रधान ) , ( 40 ) 
मुकदम ( 41 ) रात वाला गार्ड , ( 42 ) तेल 
वाला , ( 43 ) खदानकार, ( 44 ) खदान 
प्रचालक , ( 45 ) हरकारा ( डाफ ) , ( 48 ) 
भण्डारक , ( 47 ) स्टाकर, ( 48 ) स्टाकर 
( और बायलर मैन ), ( 49 ) छप्पर छाने वाला ; 
( 50 ) थूम्बा मैन ( फावड़ा कमकार ) , ( 51 ) 
टिंडल ( 52 ) ट्रोली वाला ( प्रधान ; मोटर ) 
( 53 ) फिटर ( सहायक ; अर्धकुशल ), ( 54 ) 
जमादार ( अर्धकुशल ) ( 55 ) भेट ( भंडार ) 
( 56 ) पम्प परिचर, ( 57 ) बियरर, ( 58 ) 

कमन , ( 59 ) सव्वल वाला, ( 60 ) डांडी रसोइया 
( 61 ) गडी ( 62) फराश , ( 63) लोहा-प्रारी 
वाला , ( 64 ) मददगार (रेल इंजन जैन ट्रक , 
( 65 ) कासाब , ( 66 ) खलासी ( संरचना ) ( 67 ) 
प्रयोगशाला-बाय, ( 68 ) मांझी ( नाविक ) 
( 69 ) मशाल्वी, ( 70 ) पी० एम० मेट , 
( 71 ) पेट मैन , ( 72 ) सीकम्मी , ( 73 ) 
तोपाज , ( 74 ) तोपकार ( बड़े पत्थर पोड़ने 
बाला ). ( 75 ) दीली जमादार ( 76 ) विध 
वाला , ( 77 ) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले 
अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अर्धकुशल किस्म के हैं 

4 . 70 4 . 30 3 . 90 3 . 50 3 . 20 


( 1 ) सहायक मिस्त्री, ( 2 ) आर्मेचर बांधने 
वाला ग्रेड ।। और ॥, ( 3 ) भंडारी ( 4 ) 
लुहार , ( 5 ) लुहार ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड ॥ ॥ ; 
श्रेणी ॥ ौर ।।। ; प्रधान ) , ( 6 ) बायलर 


158 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


-- - 


- 


- - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


मैन , ( 7 ) बायलर मैन ( ग्रेड II और III ), 
( 8 ) बायलर फोरमैन ग्रेड II ( 9 ) भण्डारी 
( 10 ) थवाईगर, ( 11 ) थवाईगर ( प्रवरण 
ग्रेड ; ( श्रेणी II ), ( 12 ) उत्स्फोटक, ( 13 ) 
बढ़ाई , ( 14 ) बढ़ाई ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड II 
और III; श्रेणी I और III ; सहायक ; बी० 
आई० एम० रोड ), ( 15) पैटीकार, ( 16 ) 
केन मैन , ( 17 ) सलोटेक्स कटर बनाने वाला , 
( 18 ) चार्ज मैन श्रेणी II और III, ( 19 ) 
बढ़ई ( सामान्य , ( 20 ) चैकर ( कनिष्ट ) , 
( 21 ) चिक बनाने वाला ( 22 ) 
चिक वाला , ( 23 ) कंकरीट मिश्रण मिश्रक , 
( 24 ) कंकरीट मिश्रक प्रचालक , ( 25 ) 
मोची , ( 26 ) गल्ली-निर्माता, ( 27 ) पालक , 
( 28 ) चालक ( मोटर ; वाहन ; मोटर 
वाहन प्रवरण ग्रेड ; मोटर लारी ; मोटर लारी 
ग्रेड II : लारी; लारी ग्रेड II; डीजल इंजन ; 
डीजल इंजन ग्रेड II ; मशीनी मिश्रक ; सड़क 
इंजन आई० सी० और सीमेन्ट मिश्रक आदि ; 
सड़क इंजन ) , ( 29 ) सड़क इंजन चालक ग्रेड 
II, ( 30 ) चालक (स्थिर इंजन ; पत्थर 
दलिन ट्रैक्टर बुलडोजर ; भाप का सड़क 
इंजन ; मशीनी पानी --पम्प ; सहायक 
सड़क इंजन ; मशीनी ; भाप क्रेन ; बलडोजर 
मैकेनिकल ट्रांसपोर्ट के साथ ट्रैक्टर ; इंजन ; 
स्थिर और सड़क इंजन ; वायलर परिचर ; 
ईजन ) ,( 31 ) प्रचालक ( मशीनी पत्थर दलिन ) 
( 32 ) डिस्टेम्पर ( 33 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( 34 ) 
बिजली मिस्त्री ( ग्रेड -II ) श्रेणी II श्रेणी III 
( 35 ) फिटर, ( 36 ) फिटर ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; 
ग्रेड-II ; III ; श्रेणी II ; III ; सहायक ; 
पाइप ; पाइप श्रेणी II ; पाइप लाइन ; 
प्रबलीकरण के लिए नमन छड़ ; एवं - मैकेनिक 
मैकेनिक ; और स्लम्बर ) , ( 37) धारमी 
( प्रधान ), ( 38 ) शीशागर ( 39 ) उत्स्फोटक 
के लिए छेव बेधक , ( 40 ) जायनर ( 41 ) 
जायनर ( केबल ; ग्रेड II ) , ( 42 ) लाइन 


SEC. 3( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 159 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


मैन ( ग्रेड II; III ; एच टी एल टी ) ( 43 ) 
राज मिस्त्री, ( 44 ) राज मिस्त्री ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; 
ग्रेड II और III; श्रेणी II और III ; श्रेणी 
बी मिस्त्री ; पत्थर श्रेणी II ; ईट का काम ; 
पत्थर का काम ; थवाई ; टाइल फश बंदी ; बी० 
टी० एम० ; मुकदम ; प्रधान ; पत्थर ; 
पत्थर कटाई ; सामान्य ) , ( 45 ) मशीन वाला 
( 46 ) मैकेनिक ( 47) मैकेनिक ( श्रेणी 
II ; वा नानुकूल ; वातानकूल ग्रेड II ; डीजल 
ग्रेड II : सड़क इंजन ग्रेड II ; सहायक ; 
रेडियो ) ( 48 ) राज मिस्त्री ( धारमी ) ( 49 ) 
मिस्त्री , ( 50 ) मिस्त्री ( ग्रेड II ; वातानकूल 
ग्रेड II : पी० वे ; सर्वेक्षण ; सन्तरास : 
निर्माण ( 51 ) राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी ए ( 52 ) साचे 
बाला ( 63 ) सांचे वाला ( ईट ; टाइल ) 
( 54 ) पेन्टर ( 55 ) पेन्टर ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; 
ग्रेड II और III ; श्रेणी II ; सहायक ; लाटर 
और पालिशगर ; पालिशगर ; मोटा झोटा ) , 
( 56 ) प्लास्टर करने वाला, ( 57 ) प्लास्टर 
करते याला ( राज मिस्त्री ग्रेड II ) ( 58 ) 
प्लम्बर, ( 59 ) प्लम्बर ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; श्रेणी 
II ; सहायक ; ज्येष्ठ ; कनिष्ट ; मिस्त्री 
ग्रेड II ) , ( 60 ) प्लम्बर मिस्त्री ( 61 ) प्लम्बर 
एवं फिटर , ( 62 ) पालिशगर, ( 63 ) पालि 
शगर ( फलोर ) ( 64) पम्प चालक ( 65 ) 
पम्प चालक ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड II और III 
श्रेणी II ) , ( 66 ) पम्प ( इजन चालक ) ( 67 ) 
पी० ई० चालक, ( 68 ) पम्प वाला , ( 69 ) पम्प 
वाला ( सहायक ) , ( 70 ) पम्पर ( 71 ) 
पालिशगर ( स्प्रे के साथ ) ग्रेड II ) ( 72 ) 
रतन मैन , ( 73 ) रिबेट काटने वाला ( सहायक ) 
( 74) रिबेटर ( 75 ) रिबेटर ( काटने वाला ) 
( 76 ) सड़क निरीक्षक ग्रेड II ( 77 ) रेलवे 
प्लेट बिछाने वाला ( 78 ) छड़ बंधकी ( 79 ) 
पाराकश ( 80 ) पाराकश ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; 
श्रेणी II ( 81 ) सेरांग ( 82 ) बायलर 
के साथ सेराग पाइन डाइनि प्रेन्टरन 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


रु०० रु . 40 रु०१० २०१० रु . १० 


( 83 ) स्नेपसमैन ( 84 ) पारी-भारसाधक 
( 85) फुहरिया ( 86 ) फहरिया ( सड़क ) 
( 87 ) पत्थर काटने वाला ( 88 ) पत्थर 
काटने वाला ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड II ; श्रेणी II ) 
( 89) पत्थर तराशने वाला ( 90) पत्थर तराशने 
वाला ( श्रेणी II ) ( 91 ) पत्थर उत्स्फोटक 
( 92 ) सब- प्रोवरसियर ( अनह ) ( 93 ) 
सर्वेक्षक ( 94 ) सर्वेक्षक ( सहायक ) ( 95 ) 
वर्जी ( 96 ) दर्जी ( गद्दी ) ( 97 ) तारकोल फुहरिया 
( 98 ) तार कोल वाला ( 99) लाइन मैन ( 100 ) 
टाइलर ( श्रेणी II ) ; दिवार ; फर्श ; छत्त 
( 101 ) टाइलर ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ) ( 102 ) 
टीन फार ( 103 ) टीन फार ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ) ; 
( ग्रेड II और III ; श्रेणी II ) ( 104 ) ठठेरा 
( 105 ) ट्रेसेस ( 106) टर्नर ( 107) गद्दी 
बनाने वाला ( 108 ) गद्दी बनाने वाला 
( श्रेणी II और III ) ( 109 ) पेन्टर स्प्रे श्रेणी 
II ( 110 ) लकड़हारा ( 111 ) लकड़हारा 
प्रवरण ग्रेड ( 112) लकड़हारा 
श्रेणी II ( 113 ) वर्क सरकार 
( 114) फलाईगर ( 115 ) फलाईगर गैस 
( 116 ) फलाईगर ( श्रेणी II) ; पुल का काम 
( 117 )कुंआ खोदने वाला ( 118 ) सफेदी करने 
वाला ( 119 ) सफेदी करने वाला ( प्रवरण 
ग्रेड श्रेणी II ) ( 120 ) तार मिस्त्री ( 121 ) 
तार मिस्त्री ( ग्रेड 

; श्रेणी 1 ; 
मॅकेनिक ; (बिजली ) ( 122 ) सफेदी और 
रंग करने वाला ( 123 ) वायुदापी अजार 
प्रचालक ( 124 ) प्रचालक (फिटर ) ( 125 ) 
बेधन करने वाला ( 126 ) बेधक ( 127 ) 
चिपर ( 128 ) चिपर एवं-निडर ( 129 ) 
रसोइया ( प्रधान वाला ) ( 130 ) बरमा वाला 
( कुंभा खोदना ) ( 131 ) चालक ( लोको-ट्रक 
( 132 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( सहायक ) ( 133 ) 
मैकेनिक ( नल -कप ) ( 134 ) मिस्त्री ( स्टील 
नल -कप ; लीफोन ) ( 135 ) मीटर वाचक 
( 136 ) मौसम प्रक्षक ( 137 ) नवधानी 


Sec. 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 1161 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


( 2 ) 


रु . 


40 


6 . 40 


5 . 80 5 . 20 4 . 80 


( 138 ) प्रचालक ( स्वमापी सयन्त्र ; सिनेमा 
प्रक्षेपी ; कलेम्प शैल ; सम्पीडिन ; क्रेन ; 
उरिक ; डीजल इंजन ; डोजर ; निकर्ष यंत्र ; 
बरमा ; डम्पर ; उत्खनक फार्क लिफट ; 
जेनरेटर ; ग्रेडर ; है क -हमर और पेन्मेन्ट 
तोडने वाला ; लीडर, पम्प लट्ठा ठोकना ; 
अपघर्षक ; आवरणी संयत्र ; अलचा ; ट्रैक्टर ; 
कम्पित्र ; वजन स्वमापी ) ( 139 ) रेलवे 
गार्ड ( 140 ) मरम्मत करने वाला ( बैट्री ) 
( 1 .41 ) धार लगाने वाला । स्लाट काटने 
याला ( 142 ) फुहरिया ऐसफाल्ट ) ( 143 ) 
स्टेशन मास्टर ( 141 ) सवेक्षक ( सिल्ट ) 
( 145 ) व्यापारी ( 1.16 ) रेल-गाड़ी परीक्षक 
( 147 ) टर्नर मिलर ( 148 ) टायर बल्क 
नाइजर ( 149 ) कार्य ( सहायक ) ( 150 ) 
किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो 
कुशल किस्म के हैं 

____ 7 . 00 
अधिक कुशल 

( 1 ) प्रार्मेचर बांधने वाला ग्रेड I ( 2 ) लोहार 
ग्रेड Iौर श्रेणी I ( 3 ) बायलर मैन ग्रेड I 
( 4 ) बालर मैन फोरमैन ग्रेड I ( 5 ) थवाईगर 
श्रेणी I ( 6 ) केवज जायनर ग्रेड I ( 7 ) बढ़ाई 
ग्रेड I और श्रेणी ( 8 ) सलोटैक्स कटर और 
सजाने वाला ( 9 ) चार्ज मैन श्रेणी I ( 10 ) 
चैकर ( ज्येष्ठ ) ( 11 ) चालक ( लारी ग्रेड I ; 
मोटर लारी ग्रेड I ; मोटर वाहन श्रेणी I और 
डीजल इंजन ग्रेड I ; सड़क इंजन ग्रेड I ; पप्प 
ग्रेड I ; पम्प श्रेणी I ) ( 12 ) बिजली मिस्त्री 
ग्रेड I और श्रेणी I ( 13 ) फिटर ( ग्रेड I ; 
श्रेणी I ; पाहप श्रेणी I ; प्रधान ) ( 14 ) 
फोरमैन ( सहायक ) ( 15 ) लाइन मैन ग्रेड 
I ( 16 ) राज मिस्त्री ( कुशल ग्रेडI ; श्रेणीI ) 
( 17 ) मस्तूल रिगर / मैकेनिक श्रेणी I और 
श्रेणी II ( 18 ) मैकेनिक ( प्रधान ) या बिजली 
मिस्त्री ( 19 ) मैकेनिक ( डीजल ग्रेड I ; सड़क 
इंजन ग्रेड I ; वातानुकूलन ग्रेड I ; श्रेणी I ; 
वातानुकूलन ) ( 20 ) मिस्त्री ग्रेड I ( 21 ) 


162 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


( 2 ) 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 


रु०५० रु०१० 


२०१० रु . १० रुपै. 


मिस्त्री ( वातानुकूलन ग्रेड I ) ( 22 ) प्रोवर 
सियर ( 23 ) प्रोवरसियर ( ज्येष्ट और कनिष्ट ) 
( 24) पेन्टर (ग्रेड I; श्रेणी I ; स्त्रे ) ( 25 ) 
प्लास्टर करने वाला ( राज ) श्रेणी I ( 26 ) 
प्लम्बर ( प्रधान ) ; श्रेणी I ; ( 27 ) पालिशगर 
( स्प्रे के साथ ) ग्रेड I ( 28 ) सड़क निरीक्षक 
ग्रेड I ( 29) श्राराकशी श्रेणी: I ; ( 30 ) 
पत्थर काटने वाला श्रेणी ; ( 31 ) पत्थर 
काटने वाला ग्रेड I ( 32) पत्थर तराशने वाला 
श्रेणी I, ( 33) पत्थर राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी I , 
( 34 ) सब - अोवरसियर ( अहिता ) ; ( 35 ) 
टाइलर श्रेणी I ( 36 ) टीनकार ग्रेड I और 
श्रेणी I ( 37 ) गद्दी बनाने वाला ग्रेड I ( 38 ) 
वार्निशगर श्रेणी I ( 39 ) झलाइंगर एवं फिटर 

और वातानुकूलन मैकेनिक ( 40 ) झलाईगर 
( गैस ) श्रेणी I ( 41 ) सफेदी करने वाला 
श्रेणी I ( 42 ) तार मिस्त्री ग्रेड I ; श्रेणी I ; 
( 43 ) लकड़हारा श्रेणी I ( 44 ) निडर 
( औजार ) ग्रेड I ( 45 ) प्रचालक ( स्वमापी ) 
संयत्र ग्रेड I ; कलैम्प शैल ग्रेड I : सम्पीडिन 
ग्रेड I ; क्रेन ग्रेड I ; डीजल इंजन ग्रेड I ; डोजर 
ग्रेड I ; निकर्षक यंत्र ग्रेड I ; बरमा ग्रेड I एम्पर 
ग्रेड I उत्खनक ग्रेड I ; फार्क लिफ्ट ग्रेड I ; 
जैनरेटर ग्रेड I ; ग्रेटर ग्रेड ; लीडर ग्रेड I ; 
लटठा ठोकने वाला ग्रेड I ; पम्प ग्रेड I ; अपघर्षक 
ग्रेड I ; आवरणी संयत्न ग्रेड I ; बेलचा ग्रेड I ; 
बेलचा औरनिकर्षक यंत्र ट्रेक्टर ग्रेड I ; कम्पित्र ग्रेड 
I ; रिगर ग्रेड I ; रिगर ग्रेड II ; ( 46 ) धार 
लगाने वाला । स्काट काटने वाला ग्रेड I ; ( 47 ) 
व्यापारी श्रेणी I ; ( 48 ) टन र / मिलर ग्रेड I , 
( 49 ) टायर वाल्कनाइजर ग्रेड I ( 50 ) कार्य 
( सहायक ) ग्रेड I ( 51 ) किसी भी नाम से 
कहलाने अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अधिक कुशल किस्म 

8 . 80 


8 . 00 7 . 30 


6 . 50 


6 . 00 


Sec . 3 ( ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 163 


( 2 ) 


रुपै० रु०१० स०प० । रु०५० रु०१० 
लिपिक वर्ग : 

( 1) एम० सी०लिपिक ( 2)मुंशी ( मैट्री 
कलेट ) ; नान -मैट्रोलेट ( 3 ) भण्डार 
लिपिक (मैट्राफ लेट ) ; नान - मैट्रीकलेट ( 4 ) 
भण्डारनिकासक ( 5 ) भंडारी ( 6 ) भंडारी 
( प्रेड I , II ; पैट्रोनेट II ; नान-मैट्री 
क नेट ) ( 7) लो क्लर्क ( 8 ) समयपाल ( 9 ) 
समकाल (मंट्रोनेट ; नान -मैट्रीकूलेट ) ( 10 ) 
प्राजार वाला ( 11 ) कार्य मणी ( 12 ) कार्य 
म गो ( अधीनस्थ ) ( 13 ) लेखा लिपिक ( 14 ) 
लिपिक ( 15 ) संगरक्षक ( 13 ) टेलीफोन 
प्रचालक ( 17 ) टाइपिस्ट ( 18) किसी भी 
नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो लिपिक 
म है -- मैट्रोफूलेट . . . . 7 . 00 6 . 40 5. 80 5 . 20 4 . 80 
नान-नैट्रोफूलेट . . . . . 4. 70 4. 30 3 . 90 3 . 50 3. 20 


स्पष्टीकरण --- इस अधिसुचना के प्रयोजन के लिए - - 

1. ( क ) क्षेत्र ए के प्रसंगात मुम्बई, कतकत्ता , दिल्ली , मद्रास और इन स्थानों के निगमों / 
ना : fth प्रो /जानी वोडों को परिधि में 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट 
होंगे । 

( ख ) क्षेत्र बी 1 के अन्र्तगत अहमदाबाद, बंगलौर, हैदराबाद, कानपुर , पूना और इन स्थानों 
केनिगमों/ नगरपालिकानों/ छावनी बोडी की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी 
स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे । 


( ग ) क्षत्र को 2 के अन्र्तगत प्रागरा, इलाहाबाद , जयपुर , लखनऊ, नागपुर, मदुराई , वाराणसी 
मोहामानों के निगों / नगर पालिकाओं/ छावनी बोडों की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के 
अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे । 


( घ ) क्षत्र पो के अन्तगत अडोनी, अनन्तपुरम , पारा , अलेप्पि, अरुप्पुकोटे , अहमदनगर, 
ग्राको ना ,माती, औरंगाबाद, अचलपुर नगर समूह , अम्बाला, अमृतसर , अजमेर, अलवर , अलीगढ़, 
अमरोहा, प्रांसपोल, बौदर ( मसुलीपटनम ) , भागलपुर बिहार, बडौदा , भाषनगर , बरोच गोधड़ा, 
भोपाल, भिनाई नगर, प्रौद्योगिक नगरी क्षेत्र बिलासपुर, बुरहनपुर, बारसी , भुसावल, बेलगाम , बैरलारी, 
वोजापुर , बहरामपुर, भंटिडा, भवानी, बटाला , व्यापर, बिकानेर, बहराइच , बरेली, बदायूं, बाली , 
मारक सुर, बकुडा, बेरहामपुर , बसीरहट , भाटपारा, बर्दवान, छपरा, कोचीन, कालीक्ट ( कोजीकोड़ ), 
ह , वास, कटक , चं डोगड़, चन्दरनगर , कोइम्बटूर, दरभंगा, धनबाद, दुर्ग नगरपालिका, दिडकल , 


164 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART IL 


लिया , देवनगौर, देहरादन , एलरु , इरोड , इटावा , फरीदाबाद , फिरोजपुर, फैजाबाद एवं यमा, 
फरूखाबाद-एवं-फतेहगढ़,फिरोजाबाद गुंटूर, गया , ग्वालियर ( लश्कर ), गुड़ियारतम, गरिया, रडंग 
बेतगोरी , गुल्बर्गा, गंगानगर, गाजियाबाद, गोरखपुर, होसपेट, हुबली-धारवाड़, होशियारपुर, हिसार , 
हापुड़ , हरवार, हाथरस, हालीशर , हुगली -चिंसुरा, इंदोर , इछलकारंजी , जमशेदपुर, जामनगर, जौनपुर, 
जूनागढ़ , जम्मू , जबलपुर, जलगांव, जालना , जालंधर, जोधपुर , झांसी , काकीनाडा , कंठागडियम , 
कुरनूल ,कोट्टयम , खण्डवा , कांचीपुरम , कारुर , कुम्बकोनम , कल्याण, कोलापुर , कोलार, गोरड फिर , 
करनाल , कोटा, कंचरापाड़ा, कमरहरी, खड़गपुर, कोटरंग , कृषनगर, लुधियाना, मुंगेर, जमालपुर , 
मुजजफ्फरपुर , मारिव, मयू रम , मालेगांव, मंगलौर, मैसूर, मथुरा , मेरठ,मिर्जापुर, मुरादाबाद,मुजपफर 
नगर,मिदनापुर, नेलोर, निजामाबाद, नडियाद, नवसारी, नागरकोइल , नागापात्तिनम , नानक्षेद , नासिक 
नानाद्वीप, नै -हाटी,प्रोद्दतूरु, पटना,पौरबन्दर, पालघाट, पौल्लाचिच् , पुडुकोट ,पुरी, पाईचेरी , पन त , 
पठानकोट , पटियाला , पीलीभीत, पनिहटी , कोल्लम , राजमंड्रि , रांची, राजकोट, रायपुर, राम , 
राजपलयम , रायचुर, राऊरकेला, रोहतक , रामपुर, सूरत , श्रीनगर , सागर, सरेम , सांगली -निराज , 
शोलापुर, शिमोगा, सीकर, सहारनपुर, शाहजंहापुर, सम्भल , सीतापुर, श्रीरामपुर,सिलगडी,शाती 
पुर, तेनालि ,त्रिचु, तेल्लीचेरी , त्रिवेन्द्रम , थंजावूर ( तंचावूर ) तिरूचिराम्परली (त्रिचिनापली ) 
तिरूपुर, तिरूनेलवेली, तूतीकोरिन, टीटागढ़, उज्जैन, उल्ला हसनगर, उदयपुर, उत्तरपाडा, विजय काम 
( बेजबाड़ा ), विजयनगरम , विशाखापट्टनम (विजगापट्टनम ), वेरावल, वेलूर, वालपुराई, विर ... 
धूनगर , वरगंल , यमुनगर और इन स्थानों के निगमों/ नगरपालिकाओं/ छावनी बोडों / अधिसूचित 
क्षेत्र, समिति , प्रादि की परिधि से पाठ किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट ह . गे । 


(ड ) क्षेत्र डी में वे सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे जो क्षेत्र ए, बी 1 बी 2 और सी में सम्मिलित हैं हैं । 

अकुशल काम वह है जिसमें साधारण सक्रियाएं आएं और जिसे करने के लिए 
थोड़ी सी कुशलता या अनुभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 


( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा पाए जिसे काम पर 
सनभय द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारीक पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया जा 
के तथा इसमें अधकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम सम्मिलित है । 


( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता प्राए जिसे काम पर अनुभव बाया. 
शिक्ष के रूप में या किसीटेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके अंक 
जिसके करने में पहल और विवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

( 3 ) मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें ठेकेदारों द्वारा नियुक्त किए गए कमचायपर भी काम 
होती है । 

( 4) मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर भी दरें पा जाएंगी पार इसमें विश्राम 
के साप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 


( 5 ) 18 वर्ष से कम आयु के व्यक्तियों के लिए और निर्योग्य व्यक्तियों के लिए मजदू 
की न्यूनतम दरें समुचित प्रवर्ग के व्यस्थ कर्मकारों को संदेय दरों के 70 प्रतिशत के बराबर हंगी । 


[ सं० 6 ( 1)/69-एल . डब्लू० पाई० (1) 


Sec. 3( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


165 


क० प्रा० 1918 - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) को धारा 
5 की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और इस विषय पर जारी की गई 
सभी अधिसूचनाओं को अधिक्रान्त करते हुए और उन अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उप -धारा 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह पर विचार करने के पश्चात केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एसद्वारा इससे उमाबव अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 2 की प्रविष्टियों में यथा विनिर्दिष्ट संदेय 
मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दर कर्मचारियो के उन प्रवर्गों के लिए नियत करती है जो ( i ) सडका क 
संनिर्माग या उनके अनुरक्षा में या भवन -निर्माण के काम में और ( ii ) प थर तोड़ो और पत्थर 
काचा करने में के नियोजनों में नियोजित है जैसा कि उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ 1 की तत्सम्बन्धी 
प्रविष्टियों में विनिर्दिष्ट है और निदेश देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई 1989 को प्रवृत्त 
होगी । 

अनुसूची 


. 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


काम का प्रवर्ग 


सत्र मिलाकर प्रतिदिन मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें 


क्षेत्र 
ए 


क्षेत्र क्षेत्र क्षेत्र 
बी० 1 बी० 2 सी 


क्षेत्र 
डी 


- - - 


- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 


रु० १० रु०प० रु० पै० रु . २० रु० पै० 


प्रकुशल : 


3 . 50 


3 . 20 


2 . 90 


2 . 60 


2 . 40 


( 1 ) बजरी बिछाने बाला ( 2 ) बेलदार 
( घयस्थ पुरूष / आदमी ; वयस्थ महिला / 
स्त्री ; 12 वर्ष से ऊपर के कुमार लइके ; ल इ 
कियां ; बच्चे ( 3 ) नीवालो ( 1 )ी 
बाला ( 5 ) जरीब नाला ( 6 ) नाविक ( 7 ) 
बाल्टी वाला ( 8 ) ढोने वाला ( पत्थर ) ( 9 ) 
होने वाला ( पानी ) ( 10 ) गाड़ी वाला ( 11 ) 
अभिक्षक ( पुल ) ( 12 ) क्लीनर ( केन , ट्रक ; 
राख के गड्ढे के लिए मिन्डर ) ( 13 ) 
चौकीदार ( 14 ) ककोट ( हस्त मिश्रक ) 
( 15 ) दफादार ( 16 ) चालक ( बैल ; ऊट . 
गधे ; खच्चर ) ( 17 ) झण्डी वाला ( 18 ) 
झण्डी वाला (ब्लास्ट ट्रेो ) ( 19 ) दरबान 
( 20 ) गेंग मेन ( 21 ) गैग मैन ( रेल पथ ) 
( 22 ) हैण्डल मैन ( 23 ) जम्पर मैन ( 24 ) 
कामिन ( महिला कार्य ) ( 25 ) खलासी 
( 26 ) खलासी ( प्रादमी पुरूष ; स्त्री महिला ; 
लड़के लड़किया ; 1 11 ; पुल ; बिजली 
जहाजी ; मोलाह ; तट ; भण्डार ; भाप का 


166 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART 1I 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


- - - - - - - - - - --- - - - -- - - --- 


रु 


१० रु , पं . रु , पं0 रु . 4 . 


रु . १ 
सड़क - इंजन ; सर्वेक्षण ) ( 27) श्रमिक 
( उड्डयन ) ( 28 ) बत्तती वाला ( 29 ) 
माली ( 30 ) मजदूर ( 31 ) मजदूर ( वयस्थ 

आदमी पुरूष ; वयस्थ स्त्री महिला ) ( 32 ) 
मजदूर ( कुमार 18 वर्ष से नीचे 12 वर्ष की 
आय से ऊपर ; लड़कियां ; बच्चे ; 15 वर्ष 
से नीचे के बच्चे ) ( 33 ) पेट्रोल वाला ( 34 ) 
चपरासी ( 35 ) तलाश करने वाला ( 36 ) 
सिगनल मैन ( 37) स्ट्राइकर ( 38 ) स्ट्राइ 
कर ( मोपला गैग ) ( 39 ) झाडूकश ( 40 ) 
टाट्टी बाय ( 41 ) टाइल टर्नर ( 42 ) ट्रोली 
धाला ( 43 ) वाल्व नियंत्रक ( 44 ) वाल्व मैन 
( 45 ) पहरेदार ( 46 ) पानी वाला ( 47 ) 
सफेदी करने वाला ( 48 ) लकड़ी वाला ( 49 ) 
लकड़ी वाली । 


अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) बेलचा वाला ( 2) भिस्ती ( 3) भिस्ती 4 . 70 4. 30 3. 90 3. 50 3. 20» 
( मसक के साथ ) ( 4 ) नाविक ( प्रधान ) 
( 5 ) ब्रेकर ( 6 ) बेकर (चट्टानी पत्थर , 
स्टन मैटल ; पत्थर ( 7) बेंत की बुनाई करने 
वाला ( 8) जरीब वाला ( प्रधान ) ( 9 ) 
चारपाई बुनने वाला ( 10 ) चकर ( 11 ) 
चौकीदार ( प्रधान ) ( 12 ) क्रेकर ( 13 ) 
दफ्तरी ( 14 ) डोली वाला ( 15 ) बरमा 
वाला ( 16 ) बरमा वाला ( छेद ) ( चट्टान ) 
( 17 ) ड्राइवर (स्किन ) ( 18) उस्खनक 
( 19 ) फरोमैन ( 20 ) फायर मैन ( 21 ) 
फायर मैन ( ईट भट्टा; भाप का सड़क इंजन ) 
( 22 ) द्वारपाल ( 23 ) धारमी ( छप्पर छाने 
घाला ) ( 24 ) ग्लास मैन ( 25 ) ग्रिस देने 
बाला ( 26 ) निस देने वाला एवं फायर मैन 
( 27 ) निन्धर ( 28 ) हथोडेवाला ( 29 ) 
मददगार (कारीगर ) ( 30) मददगार ( प्रा 
राकश ) ( 31 ) अमादार ( 32 ) चाबी वाला 
( 33 ) खलासी (प्रधान सर्वेक्षण ; रिवेटर 


SLC . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 1677 
- -- - - - - - 

. . . . . - - - - - - - -...-- - - - - - 

( 2 ) 


( 1 ) 


रु० ५० रू पं . रू प रु . पं० रु०प० 
मोपला गग; पर्यवेक्षक ) ( 34 ) श्रमिक 
(चट्टान काटने वाला ) ( 35 ) लसकर 
( 36 ) माली ( प्रधान ) ( 37 ) मेट ( 38 ) 
मेट ( लहार ; सड़क ; बढ़ई ; इंजन ; 
ड्राइवर ; और या फीडर ; फिटर ; गैंग ; 
खलासी ; स्टील प्रतिष्ठान ; मजदूर ; राज 
मिस्त्री ; रेल पथ ; पम्प ड्राइवर ; टर्नर ) 
( 39 ) मजदूर ( भारी वजन ; चार्जमैन ; 
मिस्त्री ; ( प्रधान ) ( 40 ) मुकदम ( 41 ) 
रात वाला गार्ड ( 42 ) तेल वाला ( 43 ) 
खदानकार ( 44 ) खदान प्रचालक ( 45 ) 
हरकारा ( डाक ) ( 46 ) भंडारक ( 47 ) 
स्टाकर ( 48 ) स्टाकर और बायलर मैन 
( 49 ) छप्पर छाने वाला ( 50 ) थूम्बा मन 
( फावड़ा कर्मकार ) ( 51 ) विंडल ( 52 ) 
ट्रोली वाला ( प्रधान ; मोटर ) ( 53 ) 
फिटर ( सहायक ; अर्धकुशल ) ( 54 ) जमा 
वार ( अर्धकुशल ) ( 55 ) मेट ( भण्डार ) 

( 56 ) पम्प परिधर । 
कुशल : 

( 1 ) सहायक मिस्त्री ( 2 ) आर्मेचर बांधने 7 . 00 6 . 40 5 . 80 5. 20 4. 80 
वाला ग्रेड IIौर III ( 3) बंधनी ( 4 ) 
लहार ( 5 ) लुहार ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड II ; 
III ; श्रेणी II और III ; प्रधान ) ( 6 ) 
यायलर मैन ( 7 ) बायलर मैन ( ग्रेड IIौर 
III ) ( 8 ) बायलर फोरमैन ग्रेड II ( 9 ) 
भण्डारी ( 10 ) थवाईगर ( 11 ) थवाईगर 
( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; श्रेणी II ) ( 12 ) उत्स्फोटक 
( 13) बढ़ई ( 14) बढ़ई ( प्रवरण ग्रेड ग्रेडII 

औरIII ; श्रेणी II और III ; सहायक ; बी . 
टी० एम० प्रधान ) ( 15 ) पेटीकार ( 16 ) 
केन मैन ( 17 ) सैलोटेषस कटर ( 18 ) चार्ज 
मैन श्रेणी IIऔर श्रेणीIII ( 19) बढ़ई ( सा 
मान्य ) ( 20) चेकर ( कनिष्ठ ) ( 21 ) चिक 
बनाने वाला ( 22 ) चिक वाला ( 23 ) कंक 
रीट मिश्रण मिश्रक ( 24 ) कंकरीट मिश्रक 


168 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2 , 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II - -- 

-- - - - - 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 


प्रचालक ( 25) मोची ( 26 ) गुल्ली-निर्माता 
( 27 ) चालक ( 28 ) चालक ( मोटर; 
वाहन ; मो वाहन प्रवरण ग्रेड ; मोटर 
वाहन श्रेणी ; मोटर लारी: मोटर लौरी 
ग्रेड II ; लौरी ; लारी ग्रेड II ; डीजल इंजन , 
डीजल इंजन ग्रेड II मशीनी मिश्रक ; सड़क 
इंजन आई० सी० और सीमेंट मिश्रक आदि ; 
सड़क इंजन ) ( 29 ) सड़क इंजन चालक 
ग्रेड II ( 30 ) चालक (स्थिर इंजन , पत्थर 
दलिन ; ट्रेक्टर बुलडोजर; भाप का सड़क 
इंजन , मशीनी जल पम्पः सहायक मशीनी 
सड़क इंजन ; भाप केन , बुलडोजर सहित 
ट्रेक्टर ; मशीनी परिवहन ; इंजन , स्थिर 
और सड़क इंजन , बायलर परिचर ; इंजन ) 
( 31 ) प्रचालक ( पत्थर दलित्र मशीनी ) 
( 32 ) डिस्टेम्परर ( 33 ) बिजली मिस्त्री 
( 31 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( ग्रेड IIश्रेणीII 
श्रेणी III ) ( 35 ) फिटर ( 36 ) फिट र 
( प्रवरण ग्रेड ; ग्रेड II , III ; श्रेणी II ; 
stunt III ; 
सहायक पाइप ; पाइप श्रेणी II ; पाइप 
लाइन , प्रटलीकरण एवं मैकेनिक के लिए नमन 
छड़ ; मकेनिक और प्लम्बर ) ( 37 ) धारमी 
( प्रधान ) ( 38 ) शीशागर ( 39) उत्स्फोटक 
के लिए छेद बेधक ( 40 ) जायनर ( 41 ) 
जायनर ( केवल ग्रेडII ) ( 42 ) लाइन मैन 
( ग्रेडII,IIIएच० टी० एल०टी० ) ( 43 ) 
राज मिस्त्री ( 44 ) राज मिस्त्री ( प्रवरण 
ग्रेड II और III , श्रेणी IIौरIII , श्रेणी बी ; 
मिस्त्री ; पत्थर ; पत्थर श्रेणी , ईट का काम , 
पत्थर का काम , राज थवाई, टाइल फर्शबन्दी ; 
बी०टी० एम० मुकदमा ; प्रधान पत्थर ; 
पत्थर कटाई ; सामान्य ) ( 45 ) मशीन वाला 
( 46 ) मैकेनिक ( 47) मैकेनिक ( श्रेणी II ; 
वातानुकलन ; वार्तानकूलन ग्रेड II ; डीजल ; 
डीजल ग्रेडII ; सड़क इंजन ग्रेडII, सहायक 
रेडियो; मोटर ) ( 48 ) राज मिस्त्री ( धारमी ) 


SEC. 3(ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 169 
- - - - - - - - - 

-- - - - - - - -- - - - - -- -- - - - - 
( 1 ) 

( 2 ) 


. - - . . - - .... - - 


( 49 ) मिस्त्री ( 50 ) मिस्त्री ( ग्रेड II ; 
वातानुकलन ग्रेड II , पी० वेः सर्वेक्षण ; संत 
रास ; निर्माण ) ( 51 ) राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी ए 
( 52 ) सांचे वाला ( 53) सांचे वाला ( ईट ; 
टाइल ) ( 54 ) पेन्टर ( 55 ) पेन्टर ( प्रवरण 
ग्रेड ; ग्रेड औरIII ; श्रेणीII ; सहायक ; 
लोटर और पालिशगर पालिशगर ; 
मोटा झटा ) ( 56 ) प्लास्टर करने वाला 
( 57) प्लास्टर करने वाला ( राज मिस्त्री 
श्रेणी II ) ( 58 ) प्लम्बर ( 59 ) प्लम्बर 
प्रवरण ग्रेड, श्रेणी II ; सहायक ; ज्येष्ठ ; 
कनिष्ठ ; मिस्त्री ग्रेड II ) ( 60 ) प्लम्बर 
मिस्त्री ( 61 ) प्लम्बर एवं -फिटर ( 62 ) 
पालिशगर ( 63 ) पालिशगर 
( फलोर ) ( 64 ) पम्प चालक ( 65 ) 
पम्प चालक ( प्रवरण ग्रेड, ग्रेड II और 
III ; श्रेणी II ) ( 66 ) पम्प ( इंजन चालक ) 
( 67 ) पी० ई० चालक ( 68 ) पम्प वाला 
( 69 ) पम्प वाला ( सहायक ) ( 70 ) पम्पर 
( 71 ) पालिशगर स्प्रे के साथ ग्रेड II 
( 72 ) रतन मैन ( 73 ) रिबट काटने वाला 
( सहायक ) ( 74 ) रिबेटर ( 75 ) रिबेटर 
काटने वाला सड़क निरीक्षक ग्रेड II 
( 77) रेलवे प्लेट बिछाने पाला ( 78 ) 
छड़बंधकी ( 79 ) पाराकश ( 80 ) पाराकश 
( प्रवरण ग्रेड, श्रेणी II ) ( 81 ) बायलर के 
साथ सेराग-पाइप ड्राइविंग पेन्टन्स ( 82 ) 
स्पेन्म मैन ( 83) पारी-भार साधक ( 81 ) 
फहरिया ( 85 ) फुरिया ( सड़क ) ( 86 ) 
पौत्थर काटने वाला ( 87 ) पत्थर काटने वाला 
प्रवरण ग्रेड II ; क्षेणी II ) ( 58 ) 
पत्थर तराशने वाला ( 89 ) पस्थर तराशने 
वाला ( श्रणीII ) ( 90 ) पत्थर उत्स्फ टक 
( 91 ) सब -ग्रोवरसियर ( अनह ) ( 92 ) 
मर्वेक्षक ( 93) सर्वेक्षक ( सहायक ) ( 94) 
दर्जी ( 95 ) दर्जी ( गद्दी ) ( 96 ) तार कोल 
फूहरिया ( 97 ) तारकोल वाला ( 98 ) लाइन 


170 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


( 1 ) 


( 2) 


रु . १० रु . पं . रु . १ . रुपे रु . ५० 
मैन ( 99 ) टा हलर प्रसरण ग्रेड ( 100 ) 
टाइलर ( श्रेणीII; दिवार ; फर्श, छत ( 101 ) 
टीन कार ( 102 ) टीनकार प्रकरण गे I 
ग्रेड IIऔरIII ; श्रेणीII ) ( 103 ) ठठेरा 
( 104 ) ट्रेलर्स ( 105 ) टर्नर ( 106 ) 
गद्दी बनाने वाला ( 107 ) गद्दी बनाने वाला 
( ग्रेडII औरIII ) ( 108 ) स्प्रे पेन्टर श्रेणी 
II ( 109 ) लकड़हारा ( 110 ) लकड़हारा ; 
प्रवरण ग्रेड ( 111 ) लकड़हारा श्रेणी II 
( 112 ) वर्क सरकार ( 113 ) मलाईगर 
( 114) झलाईगर गैस ( 115 ) मलाईगर 
( श्रेणी II ; पुल का काम ) ( 116 ) कुत्रां 
खोदने वाला ( 117 ) सफेदी करने वाला 
( 118 ) सफेदी करने वाला ( प्रवण ग्रेड 
श्रेणीII ) ( 119 ) तार मिस्त्री ( 120 ) तार 
मिस्त्री ग्रेड I और III ; श्रेणी I , मैकेनिक ; 
(बिजली ) ( 21 ) सफेदी और रंग करने वाला 
( 122 ) वायुदाबी औजार प्रचालक ( 123 ) 

पालक (फिटर ) ( 124 ) वार्निशगर श्रेणी 
II ( 125 ) झलाईगर ( गस ) श्रेणी II 


अधिक कुशल : 


8 . 80 


8 . 00 


7 . 30 


6 . 50 


6 . 00 


( 1 ) आर्मेचर बांधनेवाला ग्रेड I ( 2 ) लुहार 
ग्रेड Iौर क्षेणी I ( 3 ) वायलर मैन ग्रेड I 
( 4 ) घायलर फोरमैन ग्रेड I ( 5 ) थवाईगर 
श्रेणीI ( 6 ) केबल जायनर ग्रेड I ( 7 ) बढ़ाई 
ग्रेड Iौर श्रेणी I ( 8 ) सेलोटेक्स कटर और 
सजाने वाला ( 9 ) चार्ज मैन श्रेणी ( 10 ) 
चैकर ( ज्येष्ठ ) ( 11 ) चालक ( लारी ग्रेड ) , 
मोटर लारी ग्रेड I , मोटर वाहन श्रेणी। म 
डीजल इंजन ग्रेड I ; सड़क इंजन ग्रेड I ; पम्प 
ग्रेड I ; पम्प श्रेणी I ( 12 ) बिजली मिस्त्री 
ग्रेड I और श्रेणी I ( 13) फिटर ( ग्रेड I 
श्रेणी I ; पाइप श्रेणी I ; प्रधान ) 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 171. 

- - -- - . - -- 


( 2) 


( 14 ) फोरमैन ( सहायक ) ( 15 ) लाइनमैन 
ग्रेड I ( 16 ) राज मिस्त्री ( कुशल ; ग्रेड I ; 
श्रेणी I ) ( 17 ) मस्तल रिगरामैकेनिक श्रेणी I 

और श्रेणीII ( 18 ) मैकेनिक ( प्रधान ) या बिजली 
मिस्त्री ( 19 ) मैकेनिक ( डीजल ग्रेड ; सड़क 
इंजन ग्रेड I ; वातानुकलन ग्रेड; सड़क इंजन 
ग्रेड I ; वातानुकलन ग्रेड I ; श्रेणी I ; वाता 
नकलन ) ( 20 ) मिस्त्री ग्रेड I ( 21 ) मिस्त्री 
( वातानुकलन ग्रेड I ) ( 22 ) प्रोवरसियर 
( 23 ) प्रोवरसियर ( ज्येष्ठ प्रौर कनिष्ठ ) 
( 24 ) पेन्टर (ग्रडा; श्रेणी I ; स् ) ( 25 ) 
प्लास्टर करने वाला ( राज मिस्त्री श्रेणीI) ; 
( 26 ) प्लम्बर ( प्रधान ; श्रेणी I ; मिस्त्री ग्रेडI ) 
( 27 ) पालिशगर ( स्प्रे सहित ) ग्रेड I 
( 28 ) सड़क निरीक्षक ग्रेड I 
( 29 ) आराकश श्रेणी I ( 30 ) पत्थ र काटने 
याला श्रेणी I ( 31 ) पत्थर काटने वाला ग्रेड 
I ( 32 ) पत्थर तराशने वाला श्रेणी I ( 33 ) 
पत्थर राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी I ( 34 ) सबप्रोवर 
सियर ( अहित ) ( 35 ) टाइलर श्रेणी I 
( 36 ) ठीनकार ग्रेड और श्रेणी I ( 37 ) 
गद्दी बनाने वाला ग्रेड I ( 38 ) वानिशगर 
श्रेणी I ( 39 ) मला इंगर एवं फिटर और 
वातानुकलन मैकेनिक ( 40 ) झलाइंगर ( गैस ) 
श्रेणी I ( 41 ) सफेदी करने वाला श्रेणी I 
( 42 ) तार मिस्त्री ग्रेडI; श्रेणी ( 43 ) 
लकड़हारा श्रेणी I 


लिपिक वर्ग : 

( 1 ) एम० सी० लिपिक ( 2 ) मुंशी ( मैट्रीन 
कलेट, नान मैट्रीकूलेट ) ( 3) भण्डार लिपिक 
( मैट्रीकलेट , नान मैट्रीकलेट ) ( 4 ) 
भण्डार निकासक ( 5 ) भण्डारी ( 6 ) भण्डारी 
ग्रेड I, II , मैट्रीकलेट II ; नान 
मैट्रीकलेट ) ( 7 ) टैली लिपिक ( 8 ) सामन 


172 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II 


- 


- - 


2 


रु . १० रु . ५० रु . ५० रु . १० रु . ५० 


पाल ( 9 ) समयपाल ( मैट्रीकृलेट ; नान 
मैट्रीकलेट ) ( 10 ) औजार वाला ( 11 ) 
कार्य मुशी 
( 12) कार्य ( अधीनस्थ ) 
मैट्रीकलेट 
नान- मैट्रीकृलेट 


7 . 00 6 . 40 5 . 80 5 . 20 
4 . 70 4 . 30 3. 90 3 . 50 


4 . 80 
3. 20 


स्पट फरणः--- इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिए - 

1. ( क ) क्षेत्र ए के अन्तर्गत मुम्बई , कलकत्ता, दिल्ली, मद्रास और इन स्थोनों के निगमों / 
नगर पालिकामो छावनी बोडों की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट 
होगे । 

( ख ) क्षेत्र बी - 1 के अन्र्तगत अहमदाबाद, बंगलौर , हैदराबाद, कानपुर, पूना और इन स्थानों 
के निगमों नगर पालिकानो / छावनी बोर्डों की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी 
स्थान समाविष्ट होगे । 

( ग ) क्षेत्र बी - 2 के अर्न्तगत आगरा , इलाहाबाद , जयपुर , लखनऊ , नागपुर , मदुराई , 
वाराणसी और इन स्थानों के निगमो नगर पालिकाप्रो छावनी बोर्डों की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर 
की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होगे । 

( घ ) क्षेत्र सी के अन्र्तगत अडोनी , अनन्तपुरम , धारा , अलेप्पि , अरुण को,? अहमदनगर , 
आकोला , अमरावती , और गाबाद, अचलपुर नगर समूह अम्बाला , अमृतसर, अजमेर, अलवर, अलीगढ़ , 
अमरोहा , प्रासंसोल , बौदर ( मसुलीपटनम ) भागलपुर, बिहार , बडोदा , भावनगर , बरोच गोघड़ा, 
भोपाल , भिलाई , नगर प्रौद्योगिक नगरी क्षेत्र , बिलासपुर , बुरहानपुर, बारसी, भुसावल , बेलगांम , 
बल्लारी , बीजापुर , बेहरामपुर , भटिडा , भवानी , बटाला , व्यावर , पिकानेर , बहराइच , बरेली , बदायू , 
बाली , बारखपुर , बाकडा , बेरहमपुर , बसीरहाट , भाटपारा, बर्द्धवान , छपरा, कोचीन , कालीकट 
( कोजीकोड़ ) , गडलूर, चादा , कटक , चडीगढ़ , चन्दर नगर, कोयम्बटूर, दरभंगा, धनबाद , दुर्ग नगर 
पालिका , दिडुक्कले . घलिया , देवनगोर, देहरादून, एलरु , इरोडा, इटावा , फरीदाबाद , फिरोजपुर, 
फैजाबाद - ए -- अयोध्या , फरुखाबाद - एवं - फतेहगढ़, फिरोजाबाद , गुन्टरु, गया , ग्वालियर ( लश्कर) , 
गुडियात्तम , गोडिया , गडोग - बजौरी, गुल्बर्गा, गगानगर , गाजियाबाद , गोरखपुर, होसपेट , च बली 
चारबाउ , होशियारपुर , हिसार, हापुड़, हरद्वार , हाथरस , हालीशर , हुगली- चि सरा , इन्दौर , 
इछुलकारंजी , जमशेदपुर , जामनगर, जोनगर , जूनागढ़ , जम्म , जबलपुर , जलगांव , जालना , 
जालन्धर , जोधपुर , झांनी, का तीनाड़ , कोठागडेवः, नल , कट्टयम , खडवा, कोचीपुरम , कारुर , 
कम्बाकोन्म , कल्याण, कोलापुर , कोलार गोल्ड फिल्ड , करनाल , कोटा , कचरापाड़ा , कमरहटी , 
खड़गपुर , कोटारंग , बनगर, लुधियाना , मुगेर, जमालपुर , मज्जफफरपुर , माखि , मयूरम ,मागाव , 
मंगलौर , मैसूर , मथुरा , मेरठ ,मिर्जापुर, मरादाबाद , मुजफफर नगर, मिदनापुर , नेवार, निजामाबाद , 
नडियाद, नवसारी, नागरकोइल , नागापत्तिनम , नानदेद , नासिक , नाबा वीप , नै - अहाटी , प्रोवर, 
पटना , पाटन , पोरबदर , पालघाट पोल्लाचि , पुड के ट , पुरी, पाचरी , पानीपत , पठानकोट , 


- 


- 


Sec. 3 (ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 173 

. . -- -- - - -- - - . - . . . - -- - - - - -- - - - -- 
पटियाला, पीलीभीत , पनिहटी , कोल्लम , राजमंडि, रांची , राजकोट , रायपुर, रतलाम , गज , पलयम , 
रायचुर, राऊरकेला , रोहतक , रामपुर, सूरत , श्रीनगर , सागर , सलेम , सांगली -मिराज , शोलापुर , 
शिमोगा, सीकर, सहारनपुर , शाहजंहापुर , सम्भल , सीतापुर, श्रीरामपुर, सिलीगड़ी, शान्तीपुर, तेनाली , 
त्रिचुर, तेलीचेरी , त्रिवेन्द्रम , थंजावुर (संचावर ), तिरुच्चिरापल्ली (त्रिचिनापली ), तिरुपुर , 
तिरुनेलवेली, तृतीकोरिन , टीटागढ़, उज्जेन , उल्हास नगर , उदयपुर , उत्तरपाड़ा , विजयवाडा 
( बेजवाडा ) , विजयनगरम , विशाखापट्टनम ( विजागापट्टनम ) , वेरावल, वेलर, वालपराई , 
विरुधनगर, बरंगल , यमनानगर , और इन स्थानों के निगमों / नगरपालिकामों/ छावनी बोर्डो 
अधिसूचित क्षेत्र , समिति आदि की परिधि से पाठ किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान 
समाविष्ट होंगे । 

(ड० ) क्षेत्र डी में वे सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे जो क्षेत्र ए, बी - 1, बी - 2, और सी में सम्मिलित 
नहीं है । 

2. ( क ) अकशल काम वह जिसमे साधारण सक्रियाए पाए और जिस करने के लिए थोड़ी 
सी कशलता या अनभव का होना या बिलकल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा प्रायें जिसे काम 
पर अनुभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाय और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदशन में 
किया जा सके तथा इसमें अर्धकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम सम्मिलित है । 

( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसमे कुशलता या क्षमता पाए जिसे काम पर अनुभव द्वारा या शिक्ष 
के रूप में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके और 
जिसके करने में पहा और विवेक बुद्धि की अावश्यकता हो । 

3. मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें ट केदारो द्वारा नियक्त किए गए कर्मचारियों पर भी लाग 
होती है । 

4 . मजदूरी की न्यनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दरें आ जायेंगी और इसमें विश्राम 
के सप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

5. 18 वर्ष से कम आयु के व्यक्तियों के लिए और निर्योग्य व्यक्तियों के लिये मजदूरी की 
न्यूनतम दरें समचित प्रवर्ग के वयस्थ कर्मकारों को सन्देय दरों के 70 प्रतिशत के बराबर होंगी । 

[सं० 6 ( 1 )/ 69- एल० उडल० आई० (1) ] 


का प्रा 1919 - स्पूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम ,19.18 ( 19.28 का 11 ) की धारा 5 
की उप -धारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और इस विषय पर जारी की गई सभी 
अधिसूचनाओं को अधिक्रान्त करते हुए तथा उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उप-धारा ( i ) के खण्ड 
( क ) के अधीन गटित समिति की सलाह पर विचार करने के पश्चात् केन्द्रीय सरकार एतद्वारा इससे 
उपाबद्ध अनसूची के रतम्भ 2 की प्रविष्टियों में यथा विनिर्दिष्ट संदेय मजदुरी की न्यूनतम दर कर्मचारियों 
के उन प्रवगों के लिए पुनरीक्षित करती है जो उक्त अनसची के स्तम्भ 1 की तत्सम्बन्धी प्रविष्टियों में 
विनिर्दिष्ट हैं और जो रक्षा, खाद्य , कृषि सामुदायिक विकास और सहकारिता ( कृषि विभाग )निर्माण 
पौर प्रावास (उद्यान और केन्द्रीय लोक निर्माण विभाग , महानिदेशालय , नई दिल्ली ) और शिक्षा 
( भारत सरकार का भारतीय पुरातत्व सर्वेक्षण ) मंत्रालयों के प्राधिकार के द्वारा या उनके अधीन की 
जा रही कृषि के नियोजन में नियोजित हैं , और निदेश देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई, 196 ) को 
प्रवृत्त होगी । 


174 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 ( PART 11 


___ 


. . 


- 


.- 


- 


अनसनी 


कर्मचारियों के प्रवर्ग 


सब मिलाकर प्रतिदिन मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें 


क्षेत्र ए 


क्षेत्र बी - 1 क्षेत्र बी 2 क्षेत्र सी 


क्षेत्र डी 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


अकुशल : 

रु. १० रु०१० रु० पै० रु०१० रु०० 
( 1 ) बेलदार ( पुरूष | स्त्री ) ( 2 ) काफ 3. 70 3 . 40 3 . 10 2 . 80 2. 50 
बाय ( 3 ) पशुवाला ( 4 ) चौकीदार ( 5 ) 
क्लिनर ( मोटर ; शेड ; ट्रेक्टर ; पशुशाला ; 
एम०टी० ) ( 6 ) खुला चारा एकत्रित करना ; 
( 7 ) धोबी ( 8 ) डेरी कुली ( 9 ) टेरी वाला 
( 10 ) स्नात खोलना ( 11 ) फ़ेसर ( 12 ) 
चालक (बैल ; खच्चर ) ( 13 ) फीडर ( वयस्थ ) 
सूखी घास ( 14 ) चरवाहा ( 15 ) घास 
कातने वाला ( 16 ) मददगार ( भण्डारज्म ज 
दूर ) ( 17 ) श्रमिक ( पुरुष स्त्री ; बायलर ; 
पशुशाला खेती ; साधारण ; लदाई और उत 
राई ; बंइल बनाना ; ढोना ; उर्वरक ; कटाई ; 
प्रकीर्ण ; बीजन ; बबाई ; छप्पर छानी ; प्रति 
रोपण ; निराई ) ( 18 ) माली ( 19 ) 
मजदूर ( वक्षसंवर्धक ; कम्पोस्ट ; डेरी ; घास 
का चट्टा लगाना - सिंचाई ; खाद चट्टा लगाना ; 
दुग्ध कक्ष ; राशन कक्ष ; भण्डार ; मलेरिया 
रोधक ; एम० आर० ) ( 20 ) संदेशवाहक 
( कार्यालय ) ( 21 ) चपरासी ( 22) झाडुकश 
( 23 ) सईस ( 24 ) खुली घास बांधना और 
ढोना ( 25 ) पानी वाला ( 26) गांठे तोलना 
और होना ( 27 ) तोलने वाला ( गांठ ; 
पाल्ली ) ( 28 ) तार काटने वाला ( 29) 
तार मिस्त्री और टीन लेबल चिपकाना ( 30 ) 
अस्तबल वाला ( 31 ) माली वाला 
अर्ध कुशल | अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) परिचर ( बैल ; व्याना -स्थल ; कुट्टी - 4 . 90 4. 50 4 . 10 3 . 70 3. 30 
मशीन ; छात्रावास ; सुखा पशुधन ; अनाज 
दलित ; पम्प ; रोगी पशु आवास ; अस्तबल ; 


Szc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 175 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


- - 


- - 


- 


रुप रुपै० रु . प . पं० 
याई ; पशुधन ( 2 ) भिपती ( 3 ) नांपुर ( 4 ) 
मख्खन बाला ( 5 ) कोचवान ( 6 ) मोची ( 7 ) 
दफ्तरी, ( 8 ) पत्र वितरक ( 9 ) ड्रेसर (प्रधान ) 
ग्रेड-I ( 10 ) फीडर विभाजन बोर्ड ( 11 ) 
फायरमैन ( 12 ) ग्वाला ( 13 ) हथोड़ेवाला 
( 14 ) जमादार ( 15 ) जमादार ( संतरी ) 
( 16 ) मेट मिस्त्री ( 17 ) नालबन्द ( 18 ) 
चट्टा लगाने वाला ( 19 ) पर्यवेक्षक ( 20 ) 
छप्पर छाने वाला ( 21 ) तोलने वाला ( 22 ) 
किसान ( कल्टी वेटर ) ( 23) फारिअर ( 24 ) 
मददगार ( लुहार ) ( 25 ) तेलवाला ( 26 ) 
मजदूर ( प्रशिक्षित ,मददगार, ( 27 ) वाल्व मैन 
( 28 ) हलवाला 
कुशल : 
( 1 ) कारीगर ( श्रेणी ii ; iii ; iv) -- ( 2 ) 7 . 40 6. 80 6 . 20 5 . 60 5 . 00 
लुहार ( 3) लुहार ( श्रेणी ii ) ( 4 ) वायलर मैन 
( 5 ) बढ़ई ( 6 ) बढ़ई श्रेण ji ( 7 ) बढ़ई 
एवं लुहार ( 8 ) चालक ( इंजन ट्रैक्टर ; ए२० 
टी० मोटर ) ( 9 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( 10 ) फिटर 
( 11 ) राज मिस्त्री ( 12 ) राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी ii 
( 13 ) मशीन-हैंड ( श्रेणी ii , iii , iv ) ( 15 ) 
‘ मशीन बाला ( 15 ) मैकेनिक ( 16 ) दुग्ध लेखक 
( 17 ), मिस्त्री ( प्रधान ) ( 18 ) सांचे वाला 
( 19) उपस्थिति लेखक ( 20 ) प्रचालक 
( नल - कूप ) ( 21 ) पेन्टर ( 22 ) झलाईगर 
( 23 ) तारमिस्त्री ( 24 ) मेट ग्रेड ( ज्येष्ठ ) 
( 25 ) पलम्बर ( 26 ) गद्दी बनाने वाला । 
अधिक कुशल : 
( 1 ) कारीगर श्रेणी i ( 2 ) लुहार श्रेणीi 9 . 25 8 . 50 7 . 75 7. 00 6 . 25 
( 3 ) बढ़ई श्रेणी 1 ( 4 ) मशीन-हैड श्रेणी i 
( 5 ) राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी i 
लिपिक वर्ग : 
( 1 ) सहायक ( फार्म ) 
( 2 ) मुंशी 
मंद्रीकुलेट 

7 . 40 6 . 80 6 . 20 5 . 60 5 . 00 
नान -मैट्रीकलेट 

4 . 90 4 . 50 4 . 10 3. 70 3 . 30 


-- 


--- 


- 


176 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 

- - - - - - - - - - - -- - - 
स्पष्टीकरण इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिए --- 

1. ( क ) क्षेत्र ए के अन्तर्गत मुम्बई, कलकत्ता, दिल्ली , मद्रास और इन स्थानों के निगमों 
नगरपालिकाओं / छावनी बोर्डो की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट 
होंगे । 


( ख ) क्षेत्र बी - 1 के अन्तर्गत अहमदाबाद , बंगलौर, हैदगवाद, कानपुर , पूना, और उन स्थानों 
के निगमों नगरपालिकानों छावनी बोर्डो की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान 
समाविष्ट होंगे । 

( ग ) क्षेत्र बी - 2 के अन्तर्गत आगरा, इलाहाबाद, जयपुर, लखनऊ , नागपुर , मदुराई, वाराणसी 
और इन स्थानों के निगमों, नगरपालिकानों / छावनी बोर्डो की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर 
के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे 

( घ ) क्षेत्र सी के अन्तर्गत अडोनी, अनन्तपुरम , आरा, अलेप्यि , अरुम्पुकोट्टे, अहमदनगर , अकोला , 
अमरावती , औरंगाबाद, अचलपुर नगर समूह, अम्बाला , अमृतसर, अजमेर, अलवर, अलीगढ़ , अमरहा , 

आसंसोल , बोदर, ( मसूलीपटनम ) , भागलभू बिहार, बड़ीदा, भावनगर, बरोच गोघड़ा , भोपाल , भिलाई 
नगर प्रौद्योगिक नगरीक्षेत्र , बिलासपुर , बुरहानपुर, बारसी , मुसाबल , बेलगमि , बेल्लारी , बीजापुर , 
बहरामपुर, भटिडा , भवानी , बटाला , व्यावर , बिकानेर , बहराइच , बरेली , बदायूं , बानी, बारकपुर, 
बाकुडा, बरहामपुर , बसीरहट , भाटपारा, बदर्धवान, छपरा , बोक चीन , कालीकट ( कोजीकोड़ ) , गुडलूर , 
चादा , काक, चंडीगढ़, चन्दरनगर , कोइग्बटूर , दरभगा, धनबाद , दुर्ग नगरपालिका, दिडु कल , धुलिया , 
देवनगर , देहरादून , एलुरु, इरोडु , इटाग, फरीदाबाद ,फिरोजपुर फैजाबाद- एवं अयोध्या , फरुखाबाद 
एव फतेहगढ़, फिरोजाबाद, गुटुरु, गया , ग्वालियर ( लश्कर ) , गुडियात्तम , गोडिया , गडोंग -बैतगोरी , 
गुल्ल र्गा, गगानगर, गाजियाबाद , गोरखपुर , हासपेट , हुबली- धारबाड, होशियारपुर , हिसार , हापुड , 
हरवार , हाथरस , हालीशर, हुगली-चिमुरा, इन्दौर , इछलकारजी , जमशेदपुर , जामनगर , जोनपुर , 
जूनाग, जम्म , जबलपुर, जलगांव , जालान, जालन्धर , जोधपुर, झांसी , काकीनाड़ा, कोठागेडियम , कुग्न्ल , 
कोट्टयम , खडवा, कांचीपुरम , कारूर, हुम्बकोनम् , कल्याण, कोलापुर , कलोर गोल्ड फिल्ड , करनाल , 
कोटा, कंघरापाड़ा कमरहटी, खडपुर, कोटरंग, कृषनगर , लुधियाना, मुगेर, जमालपुर, मुज्जफरपुर , 
मारिव , मयूरम , मालेगांव , मंगलौर, मैसूर , मथुरा मेरठ , मिरजापुर , मुरादाबाद, 
मज फरनगर , मिदनापुर, नैलोर , निजामाबाद , नाडियाद, नवसारी, नागरकोइल , 
नागापात्तिनम , नानदेद, नासिक , नाबाद्वीप, नै हाटी , प्रोद्दतूरू , पटना, पाटन , पोरबन्दर , पाल 
घाट , पोत्लाचि , पुड कोटे, पुरी, पांडीचेरी , पानीपत , पठानकोट, पटियाला, पीलीभीत,पनिहटी, कोल्लम , 
राजमुडि , रांची, राजकोट, रायपुर, रतलाम , राजापलयम, रायचुर, राउरकेला , रोहतक , रामपुर, सन्त , 
श्रीनिगर, सागर , सलेम , सांगली -मराज , शोलापुर, शिमोगा , सीकर, सहारनपुर , शाहजहापुर, सम्भल , 
सीतापुर , श्रीरामपुर, सिलीगुड़ी, शान्तीपुर, तेनालि , त्रिचुर , तेलीचेरी , त्रिवेन्द्रम, थजानर, ( तंजावूर ) 
तिरुच्चिरापली (त्रिचनापली ), तिरुप्पुर, तिरुनेलवेली, तूतीकोरिन , टीटागढ़, उज्जैन , उल्हासनगर , 
उदयपुर , उत्तरपाड़ा, विजयवाड़ा , ( बैजवाडा ) , विजयनगरम , विशाखापत्तनम , ( बिजगापटटनम ) , 
वेरावल, वे नूर, वालपराई, विरूघूनगर, बरगेल, यमुनानगर , और इन स्थानों के निगमों/ नगरपालिकाओं 
छावनी बोर्डो/ अधिसूचित क्षेत्र, समिति आदि की परिधि से आठ किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी 
स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे । 


( 3 ) क्षेत्र डी में वे सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे जो क्षेत्र ए, बी - 1, बी - 2 और सी में सम्मिलितः 


SEC. 3 (ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 177 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


2. ( क ) अकुशल काम वह है जिसमें साधारण संक्रियाएं आएं और जिसे करने के लिए 
थोड़ी सी कुशलता या अनभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम यह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा पाए जिसे काम पर 
अनुभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया जा 
सके तथा इसमें अर्ध तुक्षल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम सम्मिलित है । 

( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसम कुशलता या क्षमता पाए । जिससे काम पर अनुभव द्वारा 
या शिक्षक के रूप में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसाकि संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके 
और जिसके करने मे पहल औरविवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

( 3) मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें ठेकेदारों द्वारा नियक्त किए गए कर्मचारियों पर भी लागू होती 


( 4) मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दरें प्रा जाएंगी और इसमें विश्राम के 
साप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

( 5 ) 18वर्ष से कम आयु के व्यक्तियों के लिए और निर्यो य व्यक्तियों के लिए मजबूरी 
की न्यूनतम दरें समुचित प्रवर्ग के वयस्थ कर्मकारों को संदेय करों के 70 प्रतिशत के बराबर होंगी । 

[ संख्या 7( 1) / 69 - एल० उम्लाई० (जे )] 
का०प्र० 1970. - न्यनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम, 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 4 
की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( । ) और धारा 5 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के साथ पठित धारा 3 की उप-धारा 
( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शतियों का प्रयोग करते हुए और उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 5 की 
उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह पर विचार करने के पश्चात , केन्द्रीय 
सरकार एतदद्वारा इससे उपाबद्ध अनसूची के स्तम्भ 2 की प्रविष्टियों में यथा विनिर्दिष्ट संदेह मजदूरी 
की न्युनतम दर कर्मचारियों के उन प्रवर्गों के लिए नियत करती है जो कृषि के नियोजन में नियोजित 
है जैसा कि उक्त अनुसूची के स्तम्भ ( 1 ) की तत्संबंधी प्रतिष्ठियों में विनिर्दिष्ट है, और निदेश देती है 
कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई, 1959 को प्रवृत्त होगी । 

अनुसूची 


सब मिलाकर प्रतिदिन मजदूरी की न्यूनतरें 


कर्मचारियों के प्रवर्ग 


क्षेत्र ए क्षेत्र क्षत्र क्षेत्र क्षेत्र 

बी - 1 बी - 2 सीडी 
- - - - - 
१० १० रु० १० रु० पै० रु० १० १० १० 


- 


- - - - - 


2 


. ... ... 


- - - 


3 . 40 


3 . 10 


2 . 80 


2 . 50 


अकुशल : 
( 1 ) बेलदार ( 2 ) कफि बाय ( 3 ) गाड़ी - 3 . 70 
वाला ( 4 ) पशुवाला ( 5 ) चौकीदार ( 6 ) 
दिलनर ( 7 ) खुला चारा एकत्रित करना ( 8 ) 
धोबी ( 9 ) उरी कुली ( 10 ) डरी वाला 


178 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971 /PAUSA 12 , 1892 [PART II 


रु०१० रु०१० रु०५० रु०प० रु . १० 
( 11 ) स्टाक खोलना ( 12 ) ड्रेसर ( 13 ) 
फीडर ( 14 ) चरवाहा ( 15 ) घास काटने 
वाला ( 16 ) श्रमिक ( 17) माली ( 18 ) 
मजदूर ( 19 ) संदेशवाहक ( 20 ) चपरासी 
( 21 ) झाडूकश ( 22 ) सईस ( 23 ) खुली 
घास बांधना और ढोना ( 24 ) पानी वाला 
( 25 ) गांठ तोलना और ढोना ( 26 ) लोलते 
वाला ( 27 ) तार काटने वाला ( 28 ) तार 
मिस्त्री और टीन लेबल चिपकाना ( 29 ) 
अस्तबल वाला ( 30 ) ट्रोलीवाला ( 31 ) 
किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग 

जो अकुशल किस्म के हैं । 
अर्धकुशल : 

( 1 ) सहायक ( चौधरी ) ( 2 ) सहायक -- 4. 90 4. 50 4 . 10 3. 70 3. 30 
( प्लम्बर ) ( 3) परिचर ( 4 ) बैलवाला 
( 5 ) भिश्ती ( 6) ब्रांडर ( 7 ) मक्खन वाला 
( 8 ) कोचवाला ( 9 ) मोची ( 10) दफतरी 
( 11 ) पत्र-वितरण ( 12 ) ड्रेसर ( 13 ) 
फीडर ( 14 ) फायरमैन ( 15 ) ग्वाला ( 16 ) 
हथौड़े वाला ( 17 ) मददगार ( 18 ) जमा 
दार ( 19 ) खलासी ( 20 ) मेट/मिस्त्री ( 21 ) 
माली ( ज्येष्ठ ) ( 22 ) नालबन्द ( 23 ) 
चट्टा लगाने वाला ( 24 ) छप्पर छानेवाला 
( 25 ) बाट-वाला ( 26 ) किसान हलवाला 
( 27) फारियर ( 28 ) तेलवाला ( 29 ) 
बाल्व मैन ( ज्येष्ठ ) ( 30 ) किसी भी नाम से 
कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अर्धकुशल किस्म 


7 . 40 8 . 80 6 . 20 5 . 60 5 . 00 


कुशल : 

( 1 ) कारीगर ( श्रेणी II, III , IV ) - 
( 2 ) लुहार ( श्रेणी II ) ( 3 ) बायलर मैन 
( 4 ) बढ़ई ( श्रेणी II ) ( 5 ) बढ़ई-एवं 
लुहार ( 6 ) चालक ( 7 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( 8 ) 
फिटर ( 9 ) राज मिस्त्री ( श्रेणी I ) ( 10 ) 
मशीन हैड ( श्रेणी II , III , IV ) ( 11 ) 
मशीन वाला ( 12 ) मैकेनिक ( 13) दुग्ध 


SEC. 3 ( 1 ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12 , 1892 


179 


२०५० रु . ५० रु०५० २०५० २०१० 
लेखक ( 14) मिस्त्री ( प्रधान ) ( 15 ) सांचे 
वाला ( 16 ) उपस्थिति लेखक ( 17) प्रथा 
लक (नल- कूप ) ( 18 ) पेन्टर ( 19) झला 
इंगर ( 20 ) तार मिस्त्री ( 21 ) मेट ग्रेड I 
(ज्येष्ठ ) ( 22) प्लम्बर ( 23 ) गद्दी पाला 
( 24 ) चौधरी ( 25 ) किसी भी नाम से 
कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो कुशल किस्म के 


अधिक कुशल : 

( 1 ) कारीगर श्रेणी I ( 2 ) लहार श्रेणी I 9 . 25 8. 50 7. 75 7. 00 6 . 25 
( 3) बढ़ई श्रेणी I ( 4) मशीन हैंड श्रेणी I 
( 5 ) राज मिस्त्री श्रेणी ( 6 ) मैकेनिक 
( ज्येष्ठ ) ( 7) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने 
वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अधिक कुशल किस्म के 


लिपिक वर्ग : 

मैट्रीकूलेट 
( 1 ) सहायक ( 2) मूंशी ( 3) लिपिक ( 4) 7. 40 8 . 80 8 . 20 5 . 60 5 . 00 
खजान्ची ( 5) रजिस्टरपाल ( 6) भण्डारी 

नान- मैट्रीकूलेट 
( 7 ) समय पाल ( 8) टाइपिस्ट ( 9) किसी 4. 90 4. 50 4. 10 3. 70 3. 30 
भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो लिपिक 
किस्म के हैं । 


स्पष्टीकरण — इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिए 

1. ( क ) क्षेत्र ए के अन्तर्गत मुम्बई, कलकत्ता , दिल्ली, मद्रास और इन स्थानों के निगमों / 
नगरपालिकामों छावनी बोडों की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट 
होंगे । 

( ख ) क्षेत्र बी - 1 के अन्तर्गत अहमदाबाद, बंगलोर , हैदराबाद , कानपुर, पूना और इन स्थानो 
के निगमों / नगरपालिकानों / छावनी बोर्डो की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान 
समाविष्ट होंगे । 

( ग ) क्षेत्र बी - 2 के अन्तर्गत आगरा, इलाहाबाद, जयपुर, लखनऊ, नागपुर, मदुराई, वाराणसी , 
पौर इन स्थानों के निगमों/ नगरपालिकाओं छावनी बोर्डो की परिधि से 8 किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर 
के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे । 

( घ ) क्षेत्र सी के अन्तर्गत अडोनी, अनन्तपुरम , पारा, मलेप्ति, अरुप्पुकोटटे, अहमदनगर , अकोला, 
अमरावती, औरंगाबाद, अचलपुर नगर समूह, अम्बाला, अमृतसर, अजमेर, अलवर, अलीगढ़, अमरोहा, 


180 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 [PART II _ . 


प्रसंसोल, बौदर ( मसुलीपटनम ), भागलपुर, बिहार , बड़ौदा, भावनगर, बरौप्य, गोघड़ा, भोपाल, भिलाई 
नगर प्रौद्योगिक नगरी क्षेत्र , बिलासपुर, बुरहनपुर, बारसी, भुसावल , बेलगाव , बेल्लारी, बीजापुर , 
बेहरामपुर, भटिंडा, भवानी, बटाला, व्यावर, बिकानेर, बहराइच, बरेली, बदायूं, बाली, बारकपुर, 
बोकुठा, बेरहामपुर , बसीरहट , भाटपारा, बर्द्धवान, छपरा, कोचीन , कालीकट ( कोजीकोड़ ) गुल्लूर, 
चोदा , कटक , चंडीगढ़, चन्दरनगर, कोयम्बटूर, दरभंगा, धनबाद, दुर्गनगरपालिका, दिनकल , लिया , 
धेवनगोर, देहरादून, एलूरू, इरोड, इटावा, फरीदाबाद ,फिरोजपुर, फैजबाद - एवं - अयोध्या , फरखाबाद 
एवं फतेहगढ , गुंटूरू, गया , ग्वालियर ( लश्कर ) गुडियात्तम, गोडिया, गडोग - बेतगोरी, गुलबर्गा, गंगानगर 
गाजियाबाद, गोरखपुर , होसपेट , हुबली- धारबाड़, होशियारपुर, हिसार, हापुट, हरवार, हाथरस , 
हालीशर, हुगली-चिंसुरा , इन्दौर, इछलीकीरंजी, जमशेदपुर , जामनगर , जोनपुर, जूनागढ़, जम्मू , 
जबलपुर, जलगांव, जालना, जालंधर, जोधपुर, झांसी, काकीनाडा, कोठागुडियम, कुरनूल , कोट्टयम , 
खंडवा, कांचीपुरम, कारूर, कुम्बकोनम, कल्याण, कोलापुर कालार गोल्ड फील्ड, करनाल , कोटा , कंचरापाडा, 
कमरहटी, खडगपुर, कोटरंग , कृषनगर , लधियाना , मंगेर , जमालपुर, मुज्जफरपुर , मारिव , मयरम , 
मालेगांव , मंगलौर, मैसूर, मथुरा , मेरठ, मिरजापुर, मुरादाबाद, मुज्जफ्फरनगर , मिदनापुर , नैलोर, 
मिजामाबाव , नडियाद, नवसारी , नागरकोइल , नागापत्तिनम , नानदेद, नासिक, नाबाद्वीप , नैनहाटी , 
प्रोवस्तूपरू , पटना , पाटन , पोरबन्दर , पालघाट , पोल्लाच्चि , पुडुकोटे, पुरी, पांडीचेरी , पानीपत , पठानकोट 
पटियाला, पीलीभीत , पनिहटी, कोल्लम , राजमंडि, रांची, राजकोट, रायपुर, रतलाम , राजापलयम , 
रायचर, राऊरकेला , रोहतक , रामपुर, सूरत , श्रीनगर , सागर, सलेम , सांगली-मिराज , शोलापुर , 
शिमोगा, सीकर सहारनपुर , शाहजहांपुर , सम्भल , सीतापुर, श्रीरामपुर , सिलीगुड़ी , शान्तीपुर , तेनालि , 
त्रिचुर , तेल्लीचेरी, त्रिवेन्द्रम , थजांवूर, ( तंजावूर ) तिरुच्चिराप्पलली ( निचिनापली ), तिरुप्पुर , तिरुने 
लवेली, तूतीकोरिन , टीटागढ़ , उज्जैन , उल्हासनगर, उदयपुर , उत्तरपाड़ा, विजयवाड़ा, ( बैजवाड़ा ) , 
विजयनगरम , विशाखापट्टनम , (विजगापट्टनम ), वेरावल , बेलूर , वारूपराई, विरुधूनगर, वरंगल , 
यमनगर, और इन स्थानों के निगमों /नगरपालिकाओं छावनी बोर्डो अधिसूचित क्षेत्र समिति आदि की 
परिधि से पाठ किलोमीटर की दूरी के अन्दर के सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे । 

( ) क्षेत्र डी में वे सभी स्थान समाविष्ट होंगे जो क्षेत्र ए, बी - 1, बी -2 और सी में सम्मिलित 
नहीं हैं । 

2. ( क ) अकुशल काम यह है जिसमें साधारण सक्रियाएं पाएं और जिसे करने के लिए थोड़ी 
सी कुशलता या अनुभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ माना पाए जिसे काम पर 
अनुभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया जा 
सके तथा इसमें अर्धकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम सम्मिलित है । 

( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता प्राए जिसे काम पर अनुभव द्वारा या शिक्ष 
के रूप में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके और जिसके 
करने में पहल और विवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

3. मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरें ठेकेदारों द्वारा नियुक्त किए गए कर्मचारियों पर भी लागू होती है 

4. मजदूरों की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दर आ जाएंगी और इसमें विश्राम के 
सप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

5. 18 र्ष से कम आयु के यक्ति के लि और निर्योग्य व्यक्तियों के लिये मजदूरी की 
न्युनतम धरे समुचित प्रवर्ग के व्यस्थ कर्मकारों को संदेय दरों के 70 प्रतिशत के बराबर होंगी । 

[ संख्या 7 ( 1)/ 69 एल० डब्लू ० आई , (1) ] 


SEC. 3( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12, 1892 


181 


का०मा० 1921 - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 5 की 
उपधारा ( 2 ) के साथ पठित धारा 3 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग 
करते हुए , और उक्त धारा की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह पर 
विचार करने के पश्चात केन्द्रीय सरकार मैंगनीज की खानों में नियोजित इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में 
विनिर्दिष्ट कर्मचारियों के प्रवर्गों को संदेय मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दर एतद्वारा नियत करती है और निदेश 
देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई , 1969 को प्रवत्त होगी । 


अनुसूची 
मैंगनीज की खानों के नियोजन में मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों का प्रारम्भिक नियतन । 


कार्य का वर्गीकरण 


प्रतिदिन मजदूरी 
की न्यूनतम धरें 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


रु०१० 


2. 40 


3. 20 


अकुशल : 
( 1 ) आया ( 2 ) बॉय ( 3 ) बटलर ( 4 ) कैरियर ( 5 ) अभीक्षक ( 6 ) 

चौकीदार ( 7 ) क्लिनर ( 8 ) धोबी ( 9 ) श्रमिक ( 10) मजदूर ( पुरुष 
महिला ) ( 11 ) माली ( 12 ) संदेशवाहक ( 13 ) अंक लेखक ( 14 ) 
चपरासी ( 15) पिकर ( पुरुष / महिला ) ( 16 ) झाडूकश ( पुरुष / महिला ) 
( 17 ) ट्रामर ( 18 ) ट्रोली वाला ( 19 ) ट्रोली ट्रिपर ( 20 ) नांद 
मरम्मतकार ( 21 ) पानी वाला ( 22 ) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने 

वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अकुशल किस्म के हैं । 
अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) परिचर ( 2 ) बैंकमैन ( 3 ) उत्स्फोटक ( 4 ) अक -मैन ( 5 ) रोकड़ 
रक्षक ( 6 ) चैकर ( 7 ) रसोइया ( 8 ) ड्रेसर ( 9 ) बरमा वाला ( सहायक ) 
( 10 ) फायरमैन ( 11 ) निस देने वाला ( 12) निइंर ( 13 ) हथौड़ावाला 
( 14 ) मददगार ( 15 ) जमादार ( 16 ) खलासी ( 17 ) दीप कक्ष भार 
साधक ( 18 ) भरने वाला ( पुरुष महिला ) ( 19) भेंट ( 20) दाई ( 21 ) 
तेलवाला ( 22 ) पैटमैन ( 23) सैम्पलर ( 24 ) कटाईकार ( 25 ) 
भाण्डारी ( 26 ) पर्यवेक्षक ( 27 ) काष्ठकार ( 28 ) किसी नाम से कहलाने 

वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अर्ध-कुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय किस्म के हैं । 
कुशल : 
( 1 ) असेयर ( 2 ) लुहार ( 3 ) बढ़ई ( 4 ) चार्जमैन ( 5 ) रसायनज्ञ ( 6 ) 

कम्पाउण्डर ( 7 ) बाल -गुहवाला ( 8 ) नक्शा नवीस ( 9 ) बरमा वाला 
( 10 ) चालक ( 11 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( 12) फिटर ( 13 ) फोरमैन 
( 14 ) राज मिस्त्री ( 15 ) मैकेनिक ( 16 ) मिस्त्री ( 17) सांचे वाला 
( 18 ) प्रचालक ( 19) प्रोवरसियर ( 20) पेन्टर ( 21 ) पाइप फिटर 


4 . 80 


182 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II 


___ ( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


रु०१० 


( 22 ) सर्वेक्षक ( 23 ) टीनकार ( 24 ) टर्नर ( 25 ) झलाइंगर ( 26 ) 
सार मिस्त्री ( 27) कार्य सरकार ( 28) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले 
अन्य प्रवर्ग जो कुशल किस्म के हैं । 


लिपिक वर्ग : 


( 1 ) खजांची ( 2 ) लिपिक ( 3) रजस्टिर पाल ( 4 ) भण्डारी ( 5) अध्यक्ष 
( 6) समयपाल ( 7 ) टाइपिस्ट ( 8) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य 
प्रवर्ग जो लिपिकिय किस्म के हैं । 


मैट्रीकुलेट 


. 


. 


. 


4 . 80 


. 
. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


नान-मैट्रीकलेट 


. 


. 


. 


3 . 20 


स्पष्टीकरण - इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिए --- 

1. ( क ) अकुशल काम यह है जिसमें साधारण सक्रियाएं पाएं और जिसे करने के लिए 
थोड़ी सी कुशलता या अनुभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्ध कुशल काम यह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा पाए जिसे काम पर 
मनुभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया जा 
सके तथा इसमें अर्धकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम भी है । 

( ग ) कुपाल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता पाए जिसे काम पर अनुभव वारा या शिक्षु 
के रूप में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके और 
जिसके करने में पहल और विवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

2. मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दरें आ जाएंगी और इसमें विश्राम के 
साप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

[संख्या एल० उठलू ० पाई -4/ 13/ 68-पार्ट ] 


का० मा० 1922 - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 
5 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के साथ पठित धारा 3 की उप -धारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) वारा प्रदत्त शक्सियों 
का प्रयोग करते हुए और उक्त धारा की उपधारा ( 1 ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह 
पर विचार करने के पश्चात केन्द्रीय सरकार बेराइटिस , बोक्साइड , जिप्सम , की खानों में नियोजित 
इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट कर्मचारियों के प्रवर्ग को संदेय मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दर एतद्द्वारा 
नियत करती है औरनिदेश देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई, 1969 को प्रवृत्त होगी । 


Sec . 3 (ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2 , 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 


183 


अनुसूची 
बेराइटिस की खाने 


काम का वर्गीकरण 


प्रतिदिन मजदूरी 
की न्यूनतम दरें 

( 2 ) 
स० १० 


2 . 40 


3. 20 


4. 80 


अकुशल : 
कर्मचारियों के वे सभी प्रवर्ग जो काम की किसी भी ऐसी श्रेणी में नियोजित हैं 

जो अकुशल किस्म की है भले ही वे किसी भी नाम से पुकारे जाएं 
प्रर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) हथोड़ेवाला ( 2) उत्स्फोटक ( 3) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य 

प्रवर्ग जो अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय किस्म के हैं । 
कुशल 
( 1 ) बरमा वाला ( 2) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो कुशल 

किस्म के हैं । 
लिपिक वर्ग : 
( 1 ) लिपिक ( 2 ) टाइपिस्ट ( 3 ) आशुलिपिक ( 4 ) मुंशी ( 5 ) किसी भी 

नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो लिपिकीय किस्म के हैं । 
मैट्रीकुलेट . . . 
नान-मैट्रीकुलेट 

बोक्साइट की खाने 
अकुपाल : 
( 1 ) आफिस बॉय ( 2 ) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अकुशल 

किस्म के हैं । 
अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) मेट ( 2 ) मुकदम ( 3 ) पर्यवेक्षक ( 4 ) मददगार ( 5 ) सहायक बरमा 

बाला ( 8 ) किसी भी माम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अकुशल किस्म 


4 . 80 
3 . 20 


2 . 60 


3 . 45 


5 . 20 


कुशल : 
कर्मचारियों के वे सभी प्रवर्ग जो काम की किसी भी ऐसी श्रेणी में नियोजित हैं 

जो कुशल किस्म की है भले ही वे किसी नाम से पुकारे आएं । 
लिपिक वर्ग : 
( 1) लिपिक ( 2) टाइपिस्ट ( 3) पाशुलिपिक ( 4 ) मुंशी ( 5 ) किसी भी 

नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो लिपिकीय किस्म के हैं । 
मैट्रीकुलेट 
नान- मैट्रीकुलंट 


5 . 20 
3 . 45 


18AS 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 [ PART II — 


( 1) 


( 2 ) 


रु . १० 


2 . 60 


3 . 45 


जिप्सम की खाने 
अकुशल : 
( 1 ) बागावान ( 2 ) प्रयोगशाला बांध ( 3 ) हलवाई ( 4 ) चालक ( बैलगाड़ी, 
ऊंट, गधा या खच्चर ) ( 5) पाया ( 6) डाक हरकारा ( 7) किसी भी नाम 

से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो अकुशल किस्म के है । 
अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) मेट ( 2 ) ब्रेकर ( 3 ) प्रधान चौकीदार ( 4) खनिक ( 5 ) प्रयोगशाला 
परिचर ( 6) पर्यवेक्षक ( 7 ) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग 

जो अर्धकुशल या अकुशल किस्म के हैं । 
कुशल : 
( 1 ) पेन्टर ( 2 ) लाइन मैन ( 3 ) बिजली मिस्त्री ( 4 ) रसायनश ( 5 ) 

लदाई फोरमन ( 6 ) गती प्रचालक ( 7 ) सहायक रसायनज्ञ ( 8 ) सहायक 
फोरमैन ( 9 ) खराद मिस्त्री ( 10) सब -प्रोवरसियर ( 11 ) नक्शानवीस 
( 12 ) लोह- मुद्रक - एवं - जरीब वाला ( 13 ) पर्यवेक्षक ( 14) दाई ( 15 ) 

किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो कुशल किस्म के हैं । 
लिपिक वर्ग : 
( 1 ) क्लर्क ( 2 ) टाइपिस्ट ( 3) भण्डार निकासफ ( 4 ) प्राश लिपिफ ( 5 ) 

समयपाल ( 6 ) कार्यालय सहायक ( 7 ) भारसाधक पहरा -निगरानी ( 8 ) 
मुंशी ( 9) किसी भी नाम से कहलाने वाले अन्य प्रवर्ग जो लिपिकीय किस्म 


5 . 20 


मैट्रीकुलेट 
नान -मैट्रीकुलेट 


5 . 20 
3 . 45 


इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिये स्पष्टीकरण 

1. ( क ) अकुशल काम वह है जिसमें साधारण संक्रियाएं आएं और जिसे करने के लिये 
थोड़ी सी कुशलता या अनुभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा प्राए जिसे काम पर 
अनभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया जा 
सके तथा इसमें अर्धकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम भी है । 

( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता पाए जिसे काम पर अनुभव द्वारा शिक्षु के रूप 
में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके और जिसके 
करने म पहल और विवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

___ 2. मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दरें आ जाएंगी और इसन विश्राम के 
साप्ताहिक दिन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

[ संख्या एल० उल्लू० आई० 1- 4( 13)/68-पार्ट ] 


Sec. 3(ü ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; JANUARY 2 , 1971/PAUSA 12, 1892 185 


का० प्रा० 1923. - न्यूनतम मजदूरी अधिनियम , 1948 ( 1948 का 11 ) की धारा 5 
की उपधारा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुए, और भारत सरकार के भूतपूर्व श्रम पौर 
रोजगार मंत्रालय की अधिसूचना संख्या का० प्रा० 1933 तारीख 8 जून , 1965 को अधिक्रान्त करते 
हुए तथा उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 5 की उप-धारा ( i ) के खण्ड ( क ) के अधीन गठित समिति की सलाह 
पर विचार करने के पश्चात्, केन्द्रीय सरकार, बेराइटिस , बोक्साइट और जिप्सम की खानों में नियोजित 
इससे उपाबद्ध अनुसूची में विनिर्दिष्ट कर्मचारियों के प्रवर्ग को संदेय मजदूरी की न्यूनतम पर एतदद्वारा 
नियत करती है और निदेश देती है कि यह अधिसूचना 19 मई, 1969 को प्रवृत्त होगी । 

अनुसूची 
काम का वर्गीकरण 

प्रतिविन मजदूरी 
की न्यूनतम वरें 


( 2 ) 


१० . 


2 . 40 


I. बेराइटिस की खाने 
अकुशल : 
( 1 ) मजदूर ( पुरुष/ महिला ) ( 2) ग्रेडर ( पुरुष / महिला ) ( 3) चिप्पर ( 4 ) 

पहरेदार 
अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 

( 1) खनिक-एवं-लादने वाला ( 2) खनिक ( 3 ) लादने वाला / बाली (पुरुष / 
__ महिला ) ( 4 ) ट्रेसर 
कुशल : 
( 1 ) सम्पीडिन चालक 

. . . . 


3 . 20 


4 . 80 


2. 60 


II. बोक्साइट की खाने 
अकुशल : 

1 ) मजदूर ( पुरुष/ महिला ) ( 2 ) पहरेदार ( 3 ) पानी होने वाला ( 4 ) 

पिकर (पुरुष / महिला ) (5 ) चपरासी ( 6 ) झाडूकश ( 7) क्लिनर 
अधकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) खनिक ( 2 ) मददगार बढ़ई ( 3) उत्स्फोटक ( शॉट फायर करने 
बाला ) ( 4 ) प्रोणार पनाने वाला ( 5 ) पम्प परिचर ( 6) एवजी ( 7 ) 
दलिन प्रचालक मददगार ( 8 ) सैम्पलर ( 9 ) सम्पीडिन प्राबेधक ( 10 ) 
बुलडोजर खलासी ( 11 ) कैन्टीन बॉय ( 12 ) बागवान 


3 . 45 


कुशल : 


5 . 20 


( 1 ) बढ़ई ( 2 ) फीटर ( 3 ) परमा वाला ( 4 ) लुहार ( 5 ) दलित प्रचालक 

( 6 ) चालक ( 7) मैकेनिक ( 8) सम्पीडित परिचर ( 9) पावर शाबल 
प्रापरेटर ( 10) ट्रैक्टर प्रचालक ( 11 ) उम्प ड्राइवर ( 12 ) बिजली मिस्त्री 
( 13 ) पावर और पम्पघर प्रचालक 


186 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : JANUARY 2, 1971/ PAUSA 12 , 1892 [ PART II .... 


C . . 


( 1 ) 


( 2 ) 


रु . १० 
III . जिप्सम की खाने 
अकुशल : 
(1 ) मजदूर ( पुरुष महिला ) ( 2) सैम्पल बॉय ( 3) पिकर ( पुरुष महिला ) 
2 . 60 

( 4 ) क्लिनर ( 5 ) पहरेदार ( 6 ) पानी वाला ( 7 ) झाकश ( पुरुष / 

महिला ) ( 8 ) चपरासी 
अर्धकुशल अकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय : 
( 1 ) मददगार ( 2 ) खलासी ( 3) चेकर ( 4) पेटमैन ( 5 ) चिकित्सालय 3. 45 

परिचर ( 6 ) टेलीफोन परिचर ( 7 ) रसोइया 
कुशल : 
( 1 ) कुशल मजदूर ( 2 ) सहायक सैम्पलर टेकर ( 3) डीजल मैकेनिक ( 4 ) 5 . 20 

चालक ( 5 ) जेनरेटर प्रचालक ( 6 ) तार मिस्त्री ( 7 ) वायु सम्पीडिन 
परिचर ( 8 ) राज मिस्त्री ( 9) झलाईगर ( 10) सैम्पलर ( 11 ) बरमा 
वाला ( 12 ) शाट फायर करने वाला ( 13 ) फिटर ( 14) स्थिर इंजन 
परिचर ( 15 ) पम्प परिचर ( 16 ) लुहार ( 17) टर्नर ( 18 ) बढ़ई 
( 19 ) कम्पाउण्डर ( 20 ) अप्रशिक्षित बाल गृह परिचर 
इस अधिसूचना के प्रयोजन के लिए स्पष्टीकरण 

1. ( क ) अकुशल काम वह है जिसमें साधारण संक्रियाएं पाएं और जिसे करने के लिए थोड़ी 
सी कुशलता या अनुभव का होना या बिल्कुल ही न होना अपेक्षित हो । 

( ख ) अर्धकुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता की कुछ मात्रा पाए जिसे काम पर 
अनुभव द्वारा प्राप्त किया जाए और जो किसी कुशल कर्मचारी के पर्यवेक्षण या मार्गदर्शन में किया 
जा सके तथा इसमें अर्धकुशल पर्यवेक्षकीय काम भी है । 

( ग ) कुशल काम वह है जिसमें कुशलता या क्षमता पाए जिसे काम पर अनुभव द्वारा या शिशु 
के रूप में या किसी टेकनिकल या व्यावसायिक संस्थान में प्रशिक्षण द्वारा प्राप्त किया जा सके और 
जसके करने में पहल और विवेक बुद्धि की आवश्यकता हो । 

2. मजदूरी की न्यूनतम दरों में कुल मिलाकर सभी दरें प्रा जाएंगी और इसमें विश्राम के साप्ताहिक 
विन की मजदूरी भी शामिल है । 

[संख्या एल० डब्लू० पाई- पाई -4 (13)/68-पार्ट ] 

टी० एस० शंकरन , संयुक्त सचिव । 


(Department of Labour and Employment ) 
[Offico of the Chief Labour Commissioner ( Central) ] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1970 
S , O . 97 - Wereas an application has been made under section 19( b) of the Paymento 
Bonus Act , 1965 by Messrs Vagu s Mining Works ( employer ) in relation to their establishini 
m : otioned in the Schedule below for extension of the period for the payment of bonus to thei 
employees for the accounting year ending on 31 - 3 - 1970. 


SEC . 3 ( ii ) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: JANUARY 2, 1971 / PAUSA 12, 1892 187 


And whereas being sat {gfied that there are sufficient reasons to extend the time I have, in exer 
ciso ofthe powers conferred on me by the proviso to clause (b ) of Section 19 of the said Act read 
with the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour & Employment No. 
WB- 20 ( 42 )/ 65dated the 28th August , 1965 , passcd orders on 3- 12 - 1970extending the period for 
payment ofthe said bonus by the said employer by two months ( i. e . upto3I - I - 1971 ) fromthe last 
date for payment of bonus under clause (b ) of Section 19 ofthe Act. 

Nowthis is published forin ). nition of the employer and all the crupiuyees or tne said estab 
lishment . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Nams and address of theemployer(s ) 
M /s. Vagu s Mining Works, Udamalpet, 

Colinbatore , Dist ( TamilNadu ). 


Establishment(s) 
P . O . Moongiltholuvu , Kongalnagarem ard Ich 

____ patti, Gypsum Mines, Udamalpet . 


[ No. BA- 5(24)/ 70 -LSI ] 
_ 0 . VENKATACHALAM, 
Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 


( श्रम और रोजगार विमाग ) 
( मुख्य श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) का कार्यालय ,) 

मावेश 
नई दिल्ली , 7 दिसम्बर, 1970 


का० प्रा० 27.-- - यत : मैसर्स वासूज माइनिंग वर्क्स (नियोजक ) ने नीचे की अनुसूची 
में वणित अपने स्थापनों के सम्बन्ध में 3 1 - 3 - 1970 को समाप्त होने वाले लेखा वर्ष के लिये 
अपने कर्मचारियों को बोनस के संदाय की कालावधि को बढ़ाने के लिये बोनस संदाय अधिनियम , 
1965 की धारा 19 ( ख ) के अधीन आवेदन दिया है । 

और यत : यह समाधान हो जाने पर कि समय बढ़ाने के लिये पर्याप्त कारण है , मैंने भारत 
सरकार के श्रम और रोजगार मन्त्रालय की अधिसूचना सं० डब्ल्यू बी - 20 ( 42) , 65 तारीख 
28 अगस्त , 1965 के साथ पठित उक्त अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के परन्तुक द्वारा 
मुझे प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हुये 3 - 12- 70 को उक्त नियोजक द्वारा उक्त बोनस के संदाय की 
फलावधि को अधिनियम की धारा 19 के खण्ड ( ख ) के अधीन बोनस के संदाय की अन्तिम तारीख 
से 2 महीने (अर्थात् 31 - 1 - 1971 तक ) बढ़ाने का आदेश दे दिया है । 

अब इसे उक्त स्थापन के नियोजक और सभी कर्मचारियों की सूचना के लिये प्रकाशित 
किया जाता है । 

अनसूची 


नियोजक /नियोजकों का नाम और पता 


स्थापन 


मैसर्स वासूज माइनिंग वर्क्स, उडुमलपेट , पो० 

प्रा० कोयम्बटूर , जि० तमिलनाडु 


__ मुंगिलथोलुबु कोंगलनगरम और इच्ची पट्टी, 

जिप्सम माइन्स , उडुमलपेट 
[ सं० बी० ए० -5 ( 24) / 70 एल० एम०प्राई . ] 

श्रो० वेंकटाचलम, 
मुख्य श्रम आयुक्त ( केन्द्रीय ) 


PR .NIED BY THE GENERAL MANAGER GOVERNMENT OF N LA PRESS . MINTO ROAD , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI. 07 


