REGISTERED No. D . 822 


The Gazette 


of India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


- -- - - - --- - - 


-- 


- - - - 


= 


= 


= 


NO. 37 ) NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 8th Septem 
ber 1956 - 


Issue 
No. 


No. and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


258 


S .R . O . 1949 , dated the 17th 

August, 1956 . 


Government 
| Ajmco. 


of Appointment of date on which the 

Aimer State Panchayat (Elec 
tion and Business) Rules, 1956 , 
shali come into force , 


259 


S.R .O . 1950 , dated 

September , 1996 . 


the 3rd | Ministry of Law 


Appointment of authority under 

section 16 of the Bihar and 
West Bengal ( Transfer of 

Territories ) Act, 1956 . 
Draft amendments in the Ajmer 

State Municipalities Election 
Rules, 1955 


of 


260 | S . R . O . 1951, dated the 1st Sep | Government 
tember , 1956 . 

Ajmer , 


261 


24th 


S .R . O . 1952 , dated the 

August, 1956 . 


Ministry of Com - Amendment made in the Tex 
m : rcc And Industry . ) tile Commissioner s notification 

No. S . R . O . 1589 , dated the 
23rd June 1956 . 


The Calcutta Wheat (Movement 

Control) Order , 1956 . 


262 | S . R . O . 2033, dated the sth Scp - | Ministry of Food and 
tember, 1956 . 

Į Agriculture . 
263 S. R .O . 2034 . dated the 5th Sep 

Ditto , 
tember , 1956 , 
264 / S .R .O . 2035, dated the 5th Sep - | Ministry of 
tember , 1956 . 

Labour. 


The Celhi Wheat (Movement 

Control, Order, 1956 . 
Appointment of date on which 

some provisions of thic Em 
ploycey Stalc Insurance Act, 
1948 Shall come into forco 
it certain 10. 18 of tire Scuto 

of Travancore -Cochin , 
Exemption of certain exhaust fans, 

when imported , from so much 
of customs duty in excess of 
st per cent ad valorem , 


265 | S . R . O . 2036 , dated the 6th Sep - Ministry of Finance 
tember , 1956 . 

(Departinent of 
Revenuc . 


S .R . O . 2037, dated the 6th Sep 

tember, 1956 . 


Ditto . 


Exemption of nickel powder , 

when imported , from the whole 
Ci Sutomo dury . 


( 1537 ) 


1538 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 16 , 1956 


( PART 1 - SEC. 8 


sue 
No . 


No, and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


2661 


S . R . O . 2038 , dated the 7th Ser 

tember, 1956. 


Ministry of Labour 


267 


S . R . O . 2039 , dated the 8th Sep | Ministry of Heavy 
ternber , 1956 . 

Industries 


The Central Government speci 
fied the cmployment of Aggis 
tant Harbour Masters of the 
Commissionert for the Port 
of Calcutta 48 esoential 

Servicc 
The Central Government au 

thorises Shri K , P , Jain to 
El over the managenicat of 
Shree Janki Sugar Mills and 

Company. 
Grant of recognition to the Adond 

Groundnut soods and Oil Mer 
chants Association Limited in 
respect of forward contracts in 

Grundnut k moels . 
Grant of recognition to the Adoni 

Groundnut secds and Oil Mer 
chants Association Limited in 
respect of forward contracts in 
groundnut oil, 


268 


S . R . O 2040 , dated the Ath Sea 

tember, 1950 . 


Ministry of Com - 

merce and Consu 
mer Industries. 


Ditto . 


S .R . O . 2041, dated the 8th Sep 

tember, 1956 . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines, Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazette . 


PART 1 - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
( otber than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

Nero Delhi- 2, the 5th September 1950 
S . R . O . 2045 . - In pursuance of clausc (5 ) of rule 2 of the Citizenship Rules , 1956 , the Central 
Government hereby appoints each of the officers specified in column 2 of the Schedule hereto 
annexe I tri perform vi tlic State of Bihar llie funcions of the Collector under the said Rules in 
respect of the arca specified against him in the corresponding entry in column 3 and comprised 
within the listrict mentiind in columg I of the said Schcelule . 


SCHEDULE 


Name of the District 


Designation of the Officer 


Area 


3 


1. PALDA 


Sub - Divisional Officer , 

Baukipore (Sadar) Sub -Division . 
Bankipore ( Sadar) Şub - Division 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Patna City Patoa City Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division . 
Sub-Divisional Officer , Dideporc Dinapore Sub - Division . 

Sub - Division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Barh Şub Barh Sub -Division . 

Divlajon . 
Sub- Divisional Officer, Bibar Subm Bihar Sub -Division , 
Division , 


PART II - Sec . 8 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA , SEPTEMBER 16, 1956 


1539 


3 


2. Shahabad (Arrah ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Arrah Sadar Asrah Sadar Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division , 
Sub -Divisional Offiocr, Buxar Sub - Buxar Sub- Division . 

Division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Bhabbua Bhabhua Sub-Division . 

Suh - Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Sasaram Sub - Sagaram Sub -Division , 

Division . 
9 . Gaya . 

Sub -Divisional Officer, Gaya Sndar Gaya Sadar Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division , 
Sub- Divislonal Officer , Nawa.Jah Nawadah Sub- Division , 

Suh - Division 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jehanabad Jehanabau Sub -Division . 

Sub -Division . 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Aurangabad Aurangabad Sub -Division . 

Su )- Division 
4 . Bhagalpore Sub -Divisional Officer, Bhagalpur Bhagalpur Sadar Sub - Division . 

Suda : Sub - Division 
Suu -Dividiuudi Otici, Band Gum Burda SuiDivision 

Division , 
S . Monghyt , Sub - Divisional Officer, Monghyr Sadar Monghyr Sadar Sub 
Sub -Division . 

Division . 
Sub -Divisjonal Officer, Khaguria Khagaria Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division. 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Jamui Sub - JamulSub - Division , 

Division . 
Suh -Divisional Officer , Begusarai Begusarai Sub - Division . 

Sub - Division , 
Santal Pargana Sub -Divisional Officer , Neya Dumka Ncya Dumka Sadar Sub-Division 
(Dunka). 

Sadar Sub -Division , 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Deoghar Deoghar Sub -Division , 

Sub -Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Rajmahal Raſmalal ( Salibganj) Sub 
( Sa ilgani) Sub -Division , 

Division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Godda Sub - Godda Sub - Division , 

Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Jamntara Jamtara Sub - Division, 

Division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Pakur Sub - Pakur Sub -Divisjon . 

Division , 
7. Sgbarna 

Sub -Divisional Officer, Suharga Saharoa Sadar Sub - Division . 

Sarlar Sub -Division , 
Sub- Divisional Officer, Supaul Sub - Supaul Sub -Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Madhepura Madhepura Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division . 
8 . Puroca 

Sub - Divisicnal Officer, Purnca Saday Purnca Sadar Sub - Division , 

Suh -Divisici). 
Sub -Divisional Officer,Katiliar Sub - Katihar Sub - Division . 

Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Kishanganj Kishangaoj Sub-Division , 

Sub - Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Araria Sub - Araria Sub-Division , 

Division , 


Diviston 


4 Muzatarpur 


Sub - Divisional Officer , Muzaffarpur Muzaffarpur Sadar Sub -Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officor, Mw 

Sadar Sub -Division 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Hajipur Sub - Hajipur Sub -Division , 

Division , 
Sub -Divisional Officer , Sitamarhi Sitamarhi Sub - Division. 

Sub -Division . 


- 


- 


- - 


1540 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


(PART II - SEC . % 


IO. Champaran Sub - Dirisional Officer , Champaran Motihari Sadar Şub -Division . 
(Motihari) (Mo Bari) Sadar Sub - Division . 

Sub - Divisional Officer, Bettiah Sub - Bettiah Sub -Division . 

Division . 
II. Darbhanga Sub -Divisional Officer , Darbhange Darbhanga Sadar Sub - Division 

Sadar Sub -Division . 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Samastipur Samastipur Sub -Division . 

Sub - Division 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Madhubani Madhubani Sub -Division , 

Sub - Division . 
12. Saran (Chapra ) Sub- Divisional Officer , Caran Sadar Sanan Sadar (Chapra) Sub 
(Chunru ) Sub -Division . 

Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Gopalganj Gopalganj Sub -Division . 

Sub -Division 
Şub-Divisional Officer, Somian Somlan Sub - Division . 

Sub - Division . 
19. Ranchi , . Sub -Divisional Officer, Ranchi Sadar Ranchi Sadar Sub -Division . 

Si - Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Khunti Sub - Khunti Sub - Division . 

Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Gumla Sub - Gumla Sub-Division . 

Division , 
Sub - Divisional Officer, Simdega Simdega Sub - Division 

Sub -Division . 
14 . Hazaribagh , Sub - Divisional Officer , Hazaribagh Hazaribagh Sadar Sub -Division 

Sadar Sub -Division , 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chatra Sub - Chatra Sub- Division . 

Diviston . 
Sub- Divisional Officer, Gridih Sub - Gridih Sub - Division . 

Division . 
15 . Palamau (Deltan Şub- Divisional Officer, Dultanganj Daltanganj Sadar Sub -Division . 
punj) 

Sadar Sub - Division . 
Sub-Divisional Officer, Latcher Latehar Sub -Division . 

Sub -Division . 
Sub -Divisional Officer, Garhwa Garliwa Sub -Division . 

Sub -Division , 
16 . Singhbhum Sub -Divisional Officer, Chaibasa Chaibasa Sadar Sub -Divislon . 
(Choibasa ) 

Sadar Sub - Division . 
Sub - Divisional Ortiçer, Dalbhum Dalbhum ( Jarashedpur ) 
(Jamshedpur) Sub - Division . 

Sub -Division . 
Sub - Divisional Officer , Saraikella - Saraikella Kharswan Sub 
Klipi w n Sub -Division . 

Division . 
17 . Manbhum 

Sub -Divisional Officer, Purulia Purulia Sadar Sub - Division. 
(Purulia ) 

Sadar Sub -Divisiun , 
28 . Dhanbad , Sub- Divisional Officer , Dhanbad Dhanbad Sub - Division. 

Sub -Division , 


[No. 10 /3156- IC ). 
FATEH SINGH , Dy. Socy. 


New Delhi- 2, the 5th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2046 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 (b ) of the table 
Annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Rajkumar Dalip Singh , brother of the Ruler of Keonthal, for 
purposes of that entry . 


[ No. 16 / 16 /56 -Police IV .) 
C , P . S . MENON , Under Secy . 


PART 11 - SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


1941 


New Delhi, the 7th September 1956 


8 .R . O . 2047 .. In pursuance of clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the 
Bihar and West Bengal ( Transfer of Territories ) Act 1958 ( 38 of 1956 ) , the 
Central Government hereby appoints Shri V . Viswanathan , I. C . S ., Joint Secretary 
to the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, as the authority 
for demarcating the boundary line referred to in the said clause (a ) in accord 
ance with the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of the said section , 


[No. 12 / 3 /58 - SRI.) 


S. BANERJI, Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1950 


S . R . O . 2048 . In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further 
amendments shall be made to the Indian Foreign Service Rules, 1954 , namely : 


In the said rules , the existing sub - rule 13 ( 4 ) shall be renumbered as 13 ( 4 ) ( a ) 
and the following sub - rule shall be inserted as sub - rule 13 ( 4 ) ( b ), namely : 


" ( b ) Passages through India . - A Government servant transferred from & 

post in a country to the East of India to ano her post in a country to 
the West of India , or vice versa , or from a post in a country to the 
North of India , to another post in a country to the Sou .h of India , 
or vice versa , and who avails of home leave in India before proceed 
ing to his new post, is entitled to claim T . A , for sell , members of his 
family and entitled number of servants rither by th normal andorved 
route f om the old pos ! to the new post or by the route adopted by him 
through India , whichever is less . For this purpose , the route through 
India will be the direct route from the place of entry into India to 
the place of exit from India , unless the route adopted by him is 
cheaper." 


[No. F ,8 ( 5 ) -E .II / 56 (IFSR -Amd.) .] 


A . S . MLHTA , Dy. Secy . 


- PLASS 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 


( Indian Standards Institution ) 

Delhi, the 31st August 1956 


S . R . O . 2049. In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian Standards 
Insti ution ( Certification Marks ) Rules , 1955 , the Indian Standards Inst tution 
hereby notifies that the Standard Marks, designs of which together with the verbal 
descrintion of the design and the title of the rointed Indian Standard are given in 
the Schedule hereto annexed , have been specified . 


These Standard Ma ks, for the rurpose of the Indian Standards Institution 
(Certification Marks ) Art . 1952 and the Tu es and regulations framed thereunder . 
shall come into force with effect from 10th September 1958. 


542 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1050 


(PART II-- BEC . 3 


THB SCHEDULE 


Design of the 
-Standard Mark 


Product/ C1858 of 
Products to which 

applicable 


relevant Indian 
Standard 


Verba ) description of 
the design of tho 
Standard Mark 


1 


IS : 21 ( A ) 


WA 


Aluminium Sheets, ) IS : 21 - 1953 Specifi - The monogram of tho 
Strips and Circles cation for Wought Indian Star dards 
- - Grade A , 

Aluminium for Instilution , con 
Utensils . 

sisting of letten 
ISI, drawn in the 
exact style and re 
lative proportions as 
indicaled in Columo 
( 1), the number de 
sigration of the 
Indian standard and 
tl. c Ist designation of 
tle give within pa . 
renthesis being 

superscribed on 
the monogram AS 
· indicated in the do 

signs. 


18 : 21 8 ) 


Aluminium Sheets, 
Strips and 
Circles Grade B . & 


(Sd .) D .V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director (Marks ). 

(No. MDC /11 ) 
P . V . B . MENON , Under Socy . 


(Iadian Standurds Institution ) 
Delhi, the 2nd September 1956 


S . R . 0 . 2050 . - -In pursuance of sub - regulations ( 2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Siardaids Institution hereby 
notifies that the Indian Standards particulars of which are given in the Schecule kcicio anacred 
have been established during the period 16th 10 3181 August 1956 . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Scria ! 


No. 


No, and title of the Indian 

Standard cstablished 


Brief particulars 


No, and title of the 
Indlan Standard or 
Standards , if any, 
guperseded by the 
new Indlan Standard 


(3) 


(4 ) 


I 


IS : 540 - 1950 Specification for 

Reflaed Cresylic Acid . . 


This standard prescribes the re 

quirements and thc methode 
of test for refined cresylic acid 
used in the manufacture of 
chemicals , synthetic fesio 
Antiseptics and disinfectants.. 
(Price Rs. 2 /-). 


PART 11- - Smc. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 16 , 1956 


1543 


1 


I $ : 729- 1956 Specification for 

Brass Drawer Locks , Cup 
board Locks and Box Locks . 


3 


I $ : 824 - 1956 Series of Pre 

ferred Valucs for Capacitort 
and Resistors . 


This standard covers the sizce, 

dimensions, materials and 
methods of manufacture of 
brass drawer locks , cupboard 
locks and box Locks, 
(Price Rs. 2/ -), 
This standard lays down the pre 
ferred values for the resistunce 
of wire -wound and fixed con 
position resistors an , the capa 
citance of capacitors. (Prico 
Ag. - /12 / -) . 
This standard lays down the 

colour code for the idenrifica 
don of the values and tolcranccs 
on values of fixed resistors used 
in radio and electronic equipe 
ment . (Price Re. 1 /- ) , 


4 1 $ : 825- 1956 Colour Code for 

Fixed Resistor . 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available for sale with the Indian Stendards Institution , 
19 - University Road , Delhi- 8 . 

( Sd .) D . V . KEFMARKAR , 
Deputy Director Murks). 


No.MDC /11(4 ).] 


S . R . O . 1051. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -regulation ( 1) of regulation 3 of the 
Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marka) Koyucativne , 1955, the Indian Standards Insti. 
tution hereby notifies the issue of an errata slip , detailed in column (4 ) of the Schedule bereto 
annexed , in respect of the Indian Standard specified in column (2 ) of the said Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Serlal 


Particulars of Eura18 Slips je ved 


No. 


No, and date of 

Gazette Notification 
No. and title of Indian in which establish - 
Standard 

icot of Indian 

Standard was notified 
( 2 ) 
IS : 264 - 1950 Specification for S . R . O . No. 658 deled 
Nitric Acid , 

the 26th March 1955 


I 


Table 1 , item (vi). - utdei column 

No , ( 5 ) insert the words " ? 

parts per millioon , max " . 
Appendix G , clause I Read 

TECHNICAL NITRATION 
AND ANALYTICAL REA 
GENT GRADES " for " PRO 

CEDURE " . 
Appendix G , clause l 1. - - Intro 

duce the word “ Procedure " 29 

heading of the clause . 
Appendix G , clause 1 . 2 line 3 . 
Read technical and nitration 
grade for " techncial, nitration 

and pure grade . 
Appendix G - Introduce clause 2 

PURE GRADE after clause 


I 


2 


Copies of this errata slip are available , free of cost , with the ladjan Standards institution 
19 - University Road , Delhi- 8 . 

( Sd.) D . V . KAPMATKAR , 
Deputy Director (Maiks). 


(No. MDC /11 (4) 


Delhi , the 7th September 1956 


544 


S . R . O . 2052. - In pur uance of sub - regulation ( 1) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standards lastitution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955, the !! 
Indian Stardards Itscitution hereby notifies that two licences , particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed , hive buen granted autho 
rizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark 

THE SCHEDULE 


Priod of Vi i ity 


Name and Address of Licensee 


S . licnce 
No. No, and date 


Astide (s) Process covered by the 

licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


Fcom 


To 


I 


CM / L - 13 

3 - 9 - 1956 


6 - 5 - 1956 5 - 9 - 1957 Messrs . Lalibhai Amichand Pri- Wrought Aluminium Utensilson 

vate Limited . 48 / so Kansara Grade A and Grade B . 
Chawl, Bombay- 2 . 


IS : 21 - 1953 Specification for 
wroug . c Alumicium for Utensils. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,SEPTEMBER15,1956 


2 


CML - IH 
3 - 9 - 1956 


10 - 9 - 1956 


9 - 9 - 1957 


TheMetal RollingWorks Private 
Limited , 104 Sion -Matunga 
Estate , Bombay - 22 . 


Aluminium Sheets, Strips and Cir - IS : 21- 1953 Sp .cification for 
Clos - Grade A and Grade B . Wrought Aluminium for 

Utensils, 


- 


- 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director (Muks). 


(No. MDC/ 12 (77).) 


(PARTII-Sec.3 


S . R . O . 2053 In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Indian Standard s Institution Cerificacion Madis Regalations, 1955 , the 
Indian Standa. ds In tirution höreby notifies that Licence NU, CM / L - 1, particulars ofwhich are given in be Schedule hereto angesed , has been re 
newed for a period of tisee years. 


THE 


SCHEDL LE 


PARTII-SEC.3} 


S . 
No . 


Licerce No. 

and date 


Name and Address of Licensee 


Period of Validity 
am 

Fiom Το 


Article(s ) Process covered by the 

lic :nc 


Relever Indian Standard 


1 CML- I 

8 - 3 - 19 : 5 


15 -8 - 1556 1.4 -8 - 1959 


The Aluminium Irdustries Lid . 
No, i Ceramic Factory Road, 
Kundara Travancore - Cochin 
State ). 


Steel-Cored and Phil Stranded 
Aliminiun Conducirs. 


IS : 399 - - 1953 Specification for 
Hari- Dratini 

Stranded 
sild Steci-Core Aluminium 
Conducto . ; for Overhead Power 
Trisni vion Purposes ( Ten 
Tulive ). 


D . V . KARMARKAR, 
Deputy Director (Marks). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,SEPTEMBER15,1998 


No. MDC /12 (7).] 
1 . R . ABHYANKER , Unier Secy . 


1343 


1546 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


(PART II-- rc . 


MINISTRY OF HEAVY INDUSTRIES 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2054. / IDRA / 6 / 7 /Am ( 3 ) , - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
& of the Industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following ainen ancht in the order of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry , No, S .R . O . 1610 
dated the oth July , 1935 namely : -- 
In paragraph 1 of the said order, against the category of members " being 

persons who in the opinion of the Central Government are capable 
of representing the interests of owners of industrial undertakings in 
the said schedul- d industrios " , for the entry " 3 . Shri A . K . Wattal , 
Kailash Carpet Co ., Agra " entry " 3 . Shri A . K . Wattal, Aerodrome 
Road , Baghat Barzala , Srinagar, Kashmir " shall be substituted . 

[No. 6 ( 5 ) IA (G ) / 56 . ) 
R . N . KAPUR , Under Secg . 


New Delhi, the 11th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2058 / ESS . COMNI / IRON & STEEL - 2 ( c ) / AM ( 8 ) , - - In exercise at the 
powers confcared by sub - clause ( c ) of clause 2 of the Iron and Steel (Control) 
Order, 1956 , the Central Government hereby directs that the foliowing further 
amendment shall be made to the notification of the Government of India in the 
late Ministry of Commerce and Industry , No . S . R . O . 1112 / ESS .COMM / IRON & 
STEEL - 2 ( c ) , dated the 8th May, 1956 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notification , in column 2 thereof, against 
PUNJAB , for the entries 
" 1. Director of Industries and Deputy Secretary to the Government of 

Punjab , Civıl Supplies Department, Simla ." ; 
" 2. Deputy Director, Supplies , Government of Punjab , Simla ." ; and 

“ 6. Deputy Iron and Fuel Control Officer, Punjab, Simla .", 
the following entries shall be substituted , namely :- 
" 1. Director of Industrica wnd Deputy Sucretary to Government, Punjab , 

Industries Department." ; 
" 2 . Deputy Director Industries, Punjab ( Industrial Supplies )." ; and 
. Industrial Supplies Officer , Punjab ." . 

[No. IS ( A ) - 4 ( 253 ) II. ) 
P . $ . V . RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1956 
8 . R . O . 2056 / IDRA / 18G / 9 / 56 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
18G of the Indust ies ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) , tho 
Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the Cement 
Control Order 1956, namely : 

1. For the existing proviso to sub- clause ( 1 ) of Clause 6 of the said Order ; 
the following shall be substituted, namely : 
Provided that, where under any contract relating to the sale of cement 

entered into by a producer before the commencement of this Order 
the producer had agreed to allow a rebate , discount or commission 
in the price of cement payable by the purchaser , the Corporation shall 
be entitled to deduct from the price payable in respect of the cement 
gold to it under clause 3 the amount of the rebate , discount or com 
mission in the same manner and to the same extent as it could have 
done if instead of the person mentioned in the contract the Corporation 
had been a party thereto ; 


FAKT II Sec . 31 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1958 

1547 
- 

S 
Provided further that in respect of rapid hardening cenient there shall be 

added to the price a sum of Rs 6 per ton or such other sum as the 

Central Government may ix in this behalf . 
2. For proviso ( 1) to sub - clause ( 2 ) of Clause 6 of the said Order , tho following 
wall be substituted , namely : - - 
Provided that 
(i ) in respect of rapid hardening cement the price at which the Corporation 

may sell such cement to any person shall be Rs. 115 per ton of packed , 
cenient free on all destination railway station . 

[No. Cem - 8 (218 ) /56 .) 
G . RAMANATHAN , Dy , Secy . 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th September , 1956 
S . R . O . 2057 / IDRA / 6 / 7 / Am ( 2 ) . - in exercise, of the powers conferred by : 
lection 6 of the industries (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951 ) . 
the Central Government hereby makes the following amendments in the order 
of the Governnent of India , Ministry of Commerce and Inuustry No. S . R .O . 
1515 / IDRA / 6 / 7 , dated the 0 . h July 1955 , establishing a Development Council for 
the scheduled industries engaged in the manufacture and production of textiles 
made of wool, including woulien yarn , hosiery , carpets and druggets , 

(a ) In paragraph 1 of the said Order , against the category of members " being 
persons who in the opinion of the Ceniral Government have special knowledge 
of matters relating to the technical or other aspec . s of the said scheduled indus 
tries " afier eniry Na o relating to Shi J . R . Nayar, the following entries shall . 
be inserted , namely : 
" 5A . Shri S . S . Khot, Liaison Officer, ( Sheep and Wool) Indian Council 

of Agricultural, Rescarch , Ministry of Food and Agriculture, Now 

Delhi." 
" 5B . Shri N . L . Narain , Deputy Director, (Sheep and Wool) BIKANER , 

( Rajasthan ) ” . 
(b ) In para 3 of the said Order, after entry No. ( 7) , the following entries 
had be inserted , namely -- 
" ( 8 ) Promoting or undertaking inquiry as to materials and equipment 

and as to methods of production , management and labour utilisation , 
including the discovery and development of new materiais , equip 
meni and methods and of improvements in those already in use, 
the assessment of the advantages of different alternatives and the 
conduct ol experimental establishments and of tests on a commercial 

scale . 
(9 ) Advising on any matters relating to the industry ( other than 

remuneration and conditions of employment) as which the Central 
Government may request the Development Council to advise and 
undertaking inquiries for the purpose of enabling the Development 
Council so to advise ." 

[ No . 5 (13 ) IA (GB ) /56. ) 
D . N . KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

(ICAR ) 

New Delhi, the 3rd September 1956 
8 .R .O . 2058 . - Under Section 4 ( ii ) of the Indian Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (XIV . 
of 1923 ) , the Central Government are pleased to nominate Shri R . M . Sundaram , 
I. C . S ., Director of Agriculture , Madras, as member of the Indian Central Cotton 
Committee , to represent the Agricultural Department of the Siate Government 
upto 31st March , 1957, vice Shri P . P . I. Vaidyanathan , I. C . S ., resigned , 

[ No . F . 1 - 42 / 58 - Com .II. ] 
MOKAND LALL , Under Secy , 


1948 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SALTEMCER 15, 1956 


( PART II _ SEC. 3 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 
( Transport Wing ) 

PORTS 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2059. - The following dratt of an amendment to the Port of Kandla 
(Handling and Suorage of Compressed Gas Cylinders ) Rules 1955 published with 
the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Transport No. 
3 - PIT ( 89 ) / 54 , dated the 10 h June, 1955 wh . ch the Central Government proposeg 
to make, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 6 of 
the Indian Porty , Act, 1908 ( 15 of 1998 ) is published , as required by sub - sertion 
( 2 ) of the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby, and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into considera 
tion after the 1st October , 1956 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said drait amendment before the date so specified will be con 
sidered by the Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In rulc 3 of the said rules, for the words "by the Conscrvator of the Port" . 
the words " by the Conservator of the Port or an officer authorised by him in 
this behalt " shall be substituted. 

(No. 3- PII ( 92 ) / 56 .) 
New Delhi, the 6th September 1956 
S .R . O . 2060. - In pursuance of the provisions of clause ( 3 ) of section 3 of the 
Indian Ports Act, 108 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises 
Shri Aloysius Castelino, Chief Officer of the Scindia Steam Navigat on Company s 
Coasting Steamers, ro pilot vessels in the Port of Bombay , subject to the restrictions 
laid down in Pa. t XII of the Bombay Port Trust Pilotage Bye - laws. 

[No. 8 .C -PI ( 86 ) / 56 . ) 
D . A . R . WARRIAR , Under Secy . 


( Transport Wing ) 

NNNN 
MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2061.- - In exercise of the powers confe red by sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 26 .A of the Indian Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 ( 21 of 1923 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the Indian 
Merchant Shipping (Med . cal Examination ) Rules, 1951 , namely : 
In rule 14 - A of the said Rules, for the Agures and words " 1st September, 

1956 " the figures and words " 19t Sep . ember , 1957" shall be sub 
stituted . 

[ No. 3 -MS ( 5 ) /58.) 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2062. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Mines & 
Minerals (Regulation and Deve onment) Act, 1948 (LIII of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following rules , namely : 

1. Short title and commancament. -- These rules may be called the Mining Leases 
(Modification of Terms) Rules , 1956 . 


PART II_ Sex . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


1549 


2 . Debaltions. In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,~ 
( a ) Act means the Mines and Minerals (Regulation & Development) Act, 

1948 ( LIII of 1948 ) ; 
( b ) Controller means a Controller of Mining Leases appointed under rule 3 ; 
( c ) existing mining lease means a niining lease granted prior to the 

commencement of the Act and subsis ing at the commencement of 

these rules, but does not include any such lease in respect of 
( i) natural gas; 
(ii ) petroleum ; 
( iii ) coal; or 
( iv ) any minor mine -al within the meaning of clause (il ) of rule 3 of the 

Minerai Concession Rules; 
a ) lessee ncans thuilezsce of an existing mining leas and includes a sub 

lessee or the successor- in - interest of the lessee ur sub - lessee, but does 
not include a contractor engaged by the lessee or sub - lessee for the 
purpo ,ic of working the m ne or any part thereof, and the expression 

lessor shall be construed acco . dingly ; 
( e ) Mineral Concession Rules means the Mineral Concession Rules , 1949 , 

made under section 5 of the Act ; 
( 1) Minerals Conservation and Development Rulea means the Minerals 

Conservation and Development Rules , 1955 , made under section 6 of 

the Act ; 
( 8 ) Royalty includes Dead Rent . 
3. Con roller of Mining Leases . The Central Government may , by notification 
in the Official Gazette , appoint one or more Controllers of Mining Leases to the 
purposes of these rules and any such Controller may be appointed for any specified 
area or in respect of any specified class of mining leases . 

4 . Existing leases to be brought ato . coptormity with the Mineral concessiop 
Rules , 2949 . ( 1 ) As soon as may be atter the cornmencement of these rules , the 
Controlle shall by notice served in the manner specified in rule 15 call upon every 
lessee and the lessor to show cauzo why the terms and conditions of the existing 
mining lease should not be brought into conformity with the Mineral Concession 
Ruies . 


( 2 ) Where the parties or any of them appear before the Controller in pursuance 
of a notice issued under sub - rule ( 1 ) , the Controller, afte : giving the parties or 
party , as the case may be , a reasonable opportunity of being heard , shall issue 
an order making such modifications and alterations in the terms and conditions 
of the existing mining le :139 as nigy be necessary for the purpose of bringing it 
Into conformity with the Mineral Concession Rules . 

( 3 ) Where none of the parties appeur before the Controller in pursuance of 
a notice issued vrider sub - ruie ( 1 ) , the existing mining lease shall be deemed to 
bave been so modified or altered a3 to conform to the Mineral Concession Rules. 

5 . Leason to submit reiurns ( 1 ) Every lessee shall submit to the Cuntroller 
within sixty days of the commencement of these rules a return in the form 
specified in the Schedule : 

Provided that the Controller may in any particular case extend the said period 
of sixty days by a fuſiher period not exceeding thirty days if he is satisfied that the 
legsee was preventful by sullilieni Cause Lou sulinitting the return in time, 

Provided further that thn Certral Government mgy in any special circum 
stances further extend the said period by such period as it decins fit. 

(2 ) Every such return shall be accompanied by a true copy of the existing 
mining lease to which the retu n rejales. 

& Modifications of the terms of existing mining leases . - ( 1 ) The Controller 
shall in respect of every existing mining lease prepare a statement of the modifica 
tions and alterations which he proposes to make in the terms and conditions of 
the lease so as to bring the lease into conformity with the Mineral Concession 
Rules . 

( 2 ) Except as otherwise provided in this rule, the Controller shall ordinarily 
propose all modifications and alterations in the terms and conditions of an existing 
mining lease which are necessary to bring the lease into conformity with the 
Mineral Concession Rules. 


15:50 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1960 


[PART II - Src . 3 


( 3 ) The Controller may not propose any such modifcation or alteration in 
respect of any of the said Tules, it in his opinion the existing mining lease 
substantially complies with that rule or if such modification or alteration would 
cause undue hardship to the Jessee , but in every such case the Controller shall 
refer the matter to the Central Government which may, in exercise of the powers 
conferred on it under Section 12 of the Act, pass such orders thereon as it deems 


Ot. 


( 3 - A ) The Controller shall not in any case propose an extension of the terra 
of an existing mining lease . 


( 4 ) The Controller shall not propose a reduction ot the term of an existing 
mining lease which is due to expire within fifteen years from the commencement 
of these ruies . 

( 5 ) Where an existing mining lease has run for the maximum term prescribed 
under the Mineral Concessici Rules, including the tenth or which it could have 
been renewed under these Rules , the Conrroller shali not propose the termination 
of the lease earlier than the expiry of fifteen years from the commencement of 
these rules. 


( 6 ) Where the maximum term prescribed under the Mineral Concession Ruler 
including the term for which the lease would have been renewed under these rules 
would allow the lessee a period of less than fifteen years from the commencement 
of these rules , the controller shall so fix the term of the lease that the lease 
would teminate on the exj iry of Afteen years frodi such commencement. 


( 7 ) Where the rate of royalty Axed in respect of any mineral under the existing 
mining lease is less than the rate of royalty prescribed in respect of that mineral 
under the Mineral Concession Rules (hereinafter referred to as the standard rate ) , 
but exceeds one- half oi the standard rate , thc Controller shall propose that the 
standard rate of royalty shall be payable as from the end of the Afth year from 
the commenceinent of these rules. 


( 8 ) Where the rate of royalty fxed in respect of any mineral under the existing 
mining lease dots not exceed one - half of the standard rate , the Controller shal 
propose an increase in the royalty in the manner following , that is to say , 
(a ) at the end of the first year from the commencemcnt of these rules , the 

rate of royalty : 
(i ) if it is less than one - third of the standard rate , shall be increased to 

one - third of the standard rate ; 
( il) if it is more than ono -third of the standard rate , shall not be increased 

in that year ; 
( b ) at the end of each of the two subsequent ycars the rate of royalty shall 

be so increased ( the increase in each of the said two years being to 
the same extent ) that at the end of the third year from the commence 
mont of these rules, the rate of royalty is one -half of the standard 

rate ; 
( c) there shall be no further increase in the rate of royalty at the end of 

the fourth year from the commencenient of these rules ; 
( d ) the standard rate of royalty shall be payable as from the end of the 

fifth year from the commencement of these rules. 


( 9 ) Where the rate of royalty fixed in respect of any mineral under the 
existing mineral lease exceeds the standard rate of royalty, the Controller shall 
propose a decrease in the royalty in the manner following , that is to say , 
( a ) where the rate of such royalty exceeds twice the standard rate , the 

Controller shall propose a reduction in the royalty in two stages one 
half of the excess shall be wiped out at the end of the third year trom 
the commencement of these rules and the remaining one- half shall be 

wiped out at the end of the Afth year from such commencement; 
( b ) where the rate of such royalty does not exceed twice the standard rate , 

the Controller shall propose that the standard rate of myalty shall 
be payable as from the end of the Afth year from the commencement 
of these rules 


Part 12 Svc. 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


I: 


( 10 ) Where the Controller proposes a reduction in the area covered by an 
existing mining lease , the Controller shall observe the following principles : 
( a ) in any case where there is an area which is not being worked and 

which is not contiguous to any area which is being worked, the 

Controller shall exclude that area ; 
(b ) in any other case , the Controller shall exclude such area as he may 

determine, having regard to the following matters, namely :- - 
( i) the compactness of the remaining area and the configuration appro 

priate for working the mine in a workmanlike manner ; 
( ii ) the conservation of minerals . 
( 11 ) The Controller shall give notice at the proposed modifcations or altero 
Hong to thc lezzer sd the le :: Sam and shail call upon them to show cause why such 
modifications and alterations should not be made, 
( 2 ) Nere the party or u13 viewice 

sciare the Centrollar isyunco 
of a rotico issuert under nub - rule ( 11 ) , the Controller , after giving the parties or 
party , as the case inay be, an opportunity of being heard and after making such 
further inquiry as he may deem fit, may , after consulting the State Government 
concerned , make an order that the existing mining lease shall stand modified in 
the manner specified in the order . 

( 13 ) Where none of the parties appear before the Controller in pursuance of a 
notice issued undea sub - rule (11 ), the Controller shall make an order that the 
existing mining lease shall stand modified in accordance with the proposals made 
by him . 

7 . Power of revision of the Central Government ( 1 ) The Central Govern 
ment may of its own motion or on the application of any interested person call for 
the record of any proceedings in which the Controller has passed any order under 
Buh - rule ( 21 of rule 4 or sub - rule ( 12 ) or sub - rule ( 13 ) of rule B for the purpose 
of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any such order and may pas 
such order in relation thereto us it thinks fit , 

( 2 ) Every application under this rule for the revision of any suche order of thó 
Controller shall be made within sixty days of the date of the order sought to be 
revisea : 

Provided that the Central Government may entertain any such application 
after the expiry of the said period of sixty days if it is satished that the applicant 
was prcvcn . ed by suficient couse from filing the application in time. 

( 3 ) The Central Government may , pending its final decision in the matter 
under this rule , suspend the prifcalion of any order passed by the Controller under 
Bub - rule ( 21 of rule 4 or sub - suie ( 12 ) or sub -rule ( 13 ) af rule 6 . 

6 . Furnishing of coples of Anal order and publication in Gazette . A copy of 
every order mode, under thege ru os modifying or altering the terms and conditions 
of an exis . ing mining lase shall be furnished free of cost to the lessoe and the 
lessor and to any other interested person , and shall also be published in the 
Official Gazette of the State 111 which the mune to which such lease relates is 
situated . 

9. Payment of compensation in certain cases. Where any modification or 
alteration made in an existing mining lease under these rules would benefit any 
party to the lease , thert , shall be paid by such puriy to the party who would 
thereby bc adversely affected , compensation , the amount of which shall be deter 
trined in the manner and in accordance with the principles set out in rule 10 : 

Provided that no such coinpensation shall be payable unless the Controller 18 
satisfied that the transaction relating to the existing mining lease was a bona fide 
one and was entered into in the ordinary course of business . 


10 . Principles and manner of determining compensation .- ( 1 ) The amount of 
compensation payable under rule 9 shall be determined in the following manner : 

( a ) by agreement between the parties ; 
( b ) If there is no such agreement, the amount of compensation shall be 

determined by the Controller holding such inquiry as he may deerd 
fit 22d it the ü . 7007t $ 7 dormind is rict accontable to the RISCD 
to whom the compensation is payable , the question shall be referred 
for decision to a Tribunal constituted by the Central Government 


1552 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


[ PART II SEC . 3 


which shall mnsist of a gingle mamher nihais , or had beer , om is 
qualifled for appointment as, a Judge of a High Court and the decision 

of the Tribunal shall be Anal. 
( 2 ) In determining the compensation payable under this rule , the Controller 
and the Tribal shall have regard to the Tonowing inattel s , lamely : 
( i ) any reasonable and bona fide expenditure incurred by the lessee on any 

area excluded under rule 6 , that is to say,ma 
( a ) the proportionate cost of obtaining the lease attributable to that area ; 
( b ) the expenditure or proportionate expenditure , if any , incurred in 

undertaking any prospecting operations in the area ( i ) for the 
preparation of maps , charts and other documen s relating to the 
area , ( ii ) for the collection of cores or other mineral samples and 
due analysis thereof, ( : 11 ) for the preparation of any other relevant 
iclului us shall cut, which ine nou may prouuce before the 

Controller or the Tribunal, as the case may be; 
( c ) the expenditure or proportionate expenditure, if any, incurred in 

constructing roads or other essential works in the area, where such 

roads or works are in existence in usable condition ; 
( d ) the expenditure or proportionate expenditure on any other operation 

carried out in that area and necessary for prospecting ; 
{ 11) no compensation shall be payable in respect of the reduction of the 

term of the lease or any modification in the amount of royalty . 
( 3 ) In addition to the amount of expenditure referred to in sub - clause ( i ) of 
Kub - rule ( 2 ) , there shall in every case be paid in respect of the first five years since 
the expenditure was incurred , a sum equivalent to five per cent of such expendi 
ture in respect of each such year plus a sum equivalent to four per cent of such 
expenditure in respect of each additional year after the said period of five yeurs : 

Provided that in no case shall the total sum payable under this sub -rule exceed 
50 per cent of the total amount of such expenditurc . 
Esplanation . In computing the number of years for the purpose of this 

sub - rule , any part of a year less than six mon hs shall be ignored 
and any part of a year exceeding six inunths silall be reckoned as one 

year . 
( 4 ) The compensation determined with reference to clause (b ) of sub - rule 
( 2 ) i ) shall not be paid unless the party to whom the compensation is payable nas 
delivered to the party by whom the compensation is payable all maps, Charts and 
other documents reierred to in that clause . 


( 6 ) Where there is any dispute as to the person or persons who are entitled 
to the compensation , the Coniroller or the Tribunal, as the case may be shall 
decide the dispute , and if it is found that more than one person arc entitied to 
compensation , the amount of the compensation shall be apportioned among such 
persons 

11 . Intorcs on compensation . Any compensation payable under these rules 
shall be due as from the date of the final order made under rule 10 and shall 
carry interest at the rate of 25 per cent per annum from the date of such order. 


12 . The Tribal to have certain powers of Cly Courts . The Tribunal 
constituted under rule 10 shull for the purpose of mining comederighton uuer 
these rules have all the powers of a civil court whjie trying a shii uncier ile 
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908 ) in respect of the following matters 
namelyi 
( a ) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining 

hina on oath ; 
( b ) requiring the discovery and production of any documents; 
(c ) receiving of evidence on affidavit; 
(d ) requisitioning any public record from any court or office ; 
( e ) issuing commissions for examination of witnesses , 


NS. 


PART II SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1968 


13. Power of Controller to obtain information The Controller may for the 
purpose of exercising the powers conferred upon him by these rules by order 
require a lessee or lessor to produce before him any books of accounts or other 
documents relating to an existing mining lease which may be in his possession 
or power . 


14 . Power of Controller to enter and inspect any mine. The Controller may 
enter and inspect any mine for the purpose of determining whether, and if so , in 
what manner an order under these rules modifying or altering the terms and 
conditions of an existing mining lease relating to such minę may be made under 
these rules, 


15 . Service of Notice or order . Every notice or order issued or made under 
these rules shall 


( a ) in the case of any notice or order of a gencral nature or affecting a class 

of persons be published in the Gazette of India ; 


( b ) in the case of any notice or order affecting any corporation or firm be 

served in the manner provided for the service of summons in rule 2 of 
Order XXIX or rule 3 of order XXX , as the case may be , in the First 
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act y of 1908 ) ; and 


( c ) in the case of any notice or order affecting an individual person (not 

being a corporation of firm ) be served on such person 


( i) by delivering or tendering it to that person , or 


( ii ) if it cannot be so delivered or tendered , by delivering or tendering it 

to any officer of such person or any adult male member of the 
family of such person or by affixing a copy thereof on the outer door 
or on some conspicuous part of the premises in which that person is 
known to have last resided or carried on business or personally 
worked for gain ; or 


( iii ) by registered post. 


16 . Mode of recovery of compensation . The amount of any compensatlon pay 
able under these rules may on a certifcate issued by the Controller", be recovered 
in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue : 


Provided that where any such compensation is payable by the Government, the 
amount of such compensation may , on application made to the civil court having 
jurisdiction , be recovered as it that court had passed a decree for such amount. 


17 . ( 1 ) If any person 


( a ) refuses or fails 

( i) to furnish a return as provided in rule 5 ; or 


( ii) to restore possession of any mine in accordance with the terms and 

conditions of an existing mining lease as modified under these rules ; 


i 


or 


(iii ) to produce any books of accounts or other documents in compliance 

with an order made under rule 13 ; or 


( b ) obstructs the lawful exercise of any power conferred by these rules 
he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months or 
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both , 


( 2 ) If any person makes any statement in any return furnished under rule 5 
which he either knows, or has reason to believe to be false or which he does not 
believe to be true , he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to 
uix months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both . 


1554 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1966 


[PART II - SK . 


THE SCA DULE 
( See Rulo 5 ) 


To use in respect of each lease or sub 
| least 

- - - - - - - 
Name of Lessee or sub - lessee 
Status 


. 


. 


. . . . 


. . 


. . . 


. 


. . 


. . 


. 


Address 
Date on which the lease or sub -leaso 

was granted . 
Location of the area leased . 
Minerals for which the lease or sub 

lease has been granted , 
Period of the lease or sub - lease. 
Royalty stipulated in the lease or sub 

lease 
Dead rent stipulated in the lease or sub 

lease , 
Surface rent stipulated in the lease or sub 

lease , 
Royalty paid during each of the previous 

three years , 


Rs. 


Rs . 


Rs. 
Total . . . . . .. 


Dead rent paid during each of the previous 

three years . 


Rs. 


Rs. 


Total 


Surface rent paid during each of the 

previous three years . 


Rs. 


. . . . : : : : : : 


Rs. 

Total . 
Date and amount of salami paid , if any. 
Any other payment stipulated in the lease 

or sub -lease . 
Place of registration of the lease or sub 

leage . 

I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information civou 
in the above statements in this return is correct and complete, and that the copy 
of the lease or sub - lease enclosed with this Return is a true copy . 

[NO. MII -176 ( 3) /58.) 
S .R . O . 2063, - In exercise of the powers conterred by section 5 of the Mines and 
Minerals ( Regulation and Development) Act , 1948 (LIII of 1948 ) . the Central 
Government hereby makes the following further amendments in the Mineral Con 
cession Rules, 1949 , namely : 

In the said Rules 

( 1 ) after sub -rule ( 2 ) of rule 7 , the following sub - rule shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" ( 3 ) Every application under sub - rule ( 1 ) shall be disposed of by the State 

Government within six months from the date of receipt of the appli 
cation ." 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1958 


1555 


( 2 ) after sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 17, the following qub -rule shall be lakertad , 
namely : - - 
" ( I - A ) Every application under rule 14 shall be disposed of by the State 

Government within nine months from the date of receipt of the 

application ." 
(3 ) after sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 28 , the following sub -rule shall be inserted , 
pamely : 
" ( I - A ) Every application under rule 27 shall be disposed of by the State 

Government within nine months from the date of receipt of the 

application ." 
( 4 ) in rule 57 - ( a ) after sub - rule ( 1 ), the following sub -rule shall be inserted , 
namely : 
" ( I - A ) Where a State Government has failed to dispose of an application for 

the grant or renewal of a certificate of approval or prospecting license 
or a mining lease within the period prescribed theretor in these Kules , 
such failure shall, for the purpose of these rules , be deemed to be a 
refusal to grant or rencw such certificate, license or lease , as the care 
may be, and any person aggrieved by such failure may, within two 
months of the expiry of the period aforesaid , apply to the Central 

Government for reviewing the case ." 
(b ) in sub - rule ( 2 ) , for the words , brackets and figure " under sub - rule ( 1) " . 

the words " under this rule " shall be substituted ; 


( 5 ) in rule 59 , for the words " cancel the order of the State Government or 
revise it in such manner as the Central Government may deem just and proper" , 
the words " cancel or revise the order of the State Government or pass such ordor 
as the Central Government may deem just and proper " shall be substituted . 

[ No. MII - 152 ( 59) /56 . ] 
R . N . VASUDEVA , Dy . Secy . 


“ (1) Dindustries Departmal supplies armente! 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2014 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Order of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Production , No. S .R . O . 1299 , dated the 10th June, 1955 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said Order ,-- 

( 1 ) for the entries in column ( 2 ) against Serial No. 5 , the following entries 
shall be substituted , namely :-- - 
" ( i) Director of Industries and Deputy Secretary to Government, Punjab , 

Industries Department, 
(ii ) Director of Food and Supplies and Deputy Secretary to Government, 

Punjab , Food and Supplies Department. 
( lii ) Deputy Director Industries, Punjab , ( Industrial Supplies ) . 
(iv ) Deputy Director Food and Supplies, Punjab . 

( v ) Industrial Supplies Omcer , Punjab . 
(2 ) for the entries in column ( 2 ) against Serial No. 6 , the following entries 
shall be substituted , namely : 

" ( i) All District Magistrates in the Punjab . 
( ii ) All District Industries Officers in the Punjab . 
(iil ) All District Food and Supplies Controllers in the Punjab . 
( iv ) All District Food and Supplies Officers in the Punjab . 
( v ) All Assistant Food and Supplies Officers in the Punjab ;" and 


(ii) All District 
Food and as 


1556 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


[PART II - SEC. 3 


( 3 ) for the entries in column ( 2 ) against Serial No. 7, the following entries shall 
be substituted , namely : 

" ( i) Senior Inspectors of Industries , Punjab 
( ii ) Junior Inspectors of Industries, Punjab 
( iii ) Sub - Inspectors Industries , Punjab 
( iv ) Inspectors Food and Supplies , Punjab 
( v ) Sub - Inspectors Food and Supplies, Punjab 
( vi) Industrial Supplies Inspector ( Headquarters ) , Punjab ." . 

(No . 18- CI ( 19 ) 756.) 
P . N . DHIR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS 

New Delhi -2 , the 11th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2065 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Indian 
Aircraft Act, 1934 (XXII of 1934 ) , the Central Government is pleased to direct 
that the following further amendments shall be made in the Indian Aircraft 
Rules, 1937, the same having been previously published as required by section 
14 of the said Act, namely : 

In Schedule II to the said Rules , in " Section E - Navigator s Licence " for 
paragraph 1 , the following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : 
" 1. Flying Experience 
( 1 ) An applicant for a second class licence shall be required to produce 

evidence of having had at least 300 hours air experience in aircraft 

engaged in cross - country fights. 
( 2 ) An applicant for a first class licence shall be requi. ed to produce 

evidence of having had at least 600 hours air experience , not less 
than 100 hours of this being experience of navigation in the air in 
aircraft engaged in cross- country flights of which not less than 15 

hours shall have been obtained by night. 
( 3 ) In this paragraph , the cxpression " air experience" means experience 
in the air as an operative member of the crew of an aircraft " . 

[No. AR / 1937 ( 23 ). ) 

(No. F . 10 - A /82-55. ] 
M . DAYAL , Dy. Secy. 


( Posts & Telegraphs ) 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2006 . In exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 of the Indian 
Telegraph Act, 1885 ( 13 of 1885 ) , the Central Government hereby makes , with 
effect from the 18th October , 1956 , the following further amendment in the Indian 
Telegraph Rules , 1951 , namely : 

In rule 430 of the said rules, in item II of the table below sub - rule ( 1) , the 
following exchange shall be inserted below " Salem " : 
" Sangll" . 

[ No . R .3 -82 /65. ) 
H . C . SHARMA , Under Secy . 


( Indian Posts and Telegraphs Department) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2087 . - In exercise of the power conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 
21 of the Indian Post Office Act, 1898 ( 0 of 1889 ) . The Director General hereby 


PART II — SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


1557 


makes the following amendment in his Order No. C .17 -6 /52 dated the 9th July, 
namely : - - 

In the said Order , for paragraph 23 the following paragraph shall be substi 
tuted, namely : 
" ( 23 ) The system of delivery of Postal articles in a bag which along with 

a lock and duplicate key shall be supplied by the renter , shall be 
available at any delivery post office , whether post box system is 
available there or not ." 

[No. C . 17 -6 / 52. ] 
R . P . SINGH , Director , 

Postal Technical. 
- - 

MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 5th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2068. — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 ( 44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri O . P . Katyal, as Assistant 
Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions assigned to such 
officer by or under the said Act, with effect from the date he took charge of his 
post . 

[No. 7 / 28 /56 -SII ( Pt. II ). ] 

KULWANT SINGH , Under Secy. 
- - -- — - 

— 

— — 
MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2069 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
5 of the Tea Districts Emigrant Labour Act, 1932 ( 22 of 1932 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby determines that the rate of Emigrant Labour Cess to be levied under 
the said section in respect of the cntry into Assam of each assisted emigrant shall be 
rupees five for the year commencing on the 1st October, 1956, and ending on the 
30th September , 1957. 

[No. PL / 1 - 1/ 9 / 56 .) 
New Delhi , the 7th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2070 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Employees State 
Insurance Act , 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government hereby excnpts cach of the under 
mentioned factories from all the provisions of the said Act for a further period of one year with 
effect from the dates mentioned against them : 


Factories belonging to the Central Public Works Department under the Date from which 
Ministry ofWorks, Housing And Supply . 

exemption granted 


1 . The Electric Fans, Motors and Appliances Repair Shop , Barakhamba 
Road , New Delhi. . 

14 - 9 -56 
2. The Horticultural Tools and Implements Repair Shop , New Delhi 14 - 9 - 56 
3 . The Auto and General Repairs and General Machine Shop and 

Foundry , American Warehouse , Factory Road , New Delhi . 14 - 9 - 56 
4 . The Desert Cooler, Refrigerator , Air Conditioning and Electric 
Repair Workshop , Baraklamba Road , New Delhi , . 

14 - 9 - 56 
Factories belonging to the Ministry of Communications. 
5 . Electrical & Mechanical Workshop , Bombay 

, , 8-9-56 
6 . Radio Construction & Development,Units of Civil Aviation Depart 8 - 9 - 56 

ment, New Delhi. 
- - 

[No.F. HI-6(106)/56.) 
B . R , KHANNA , Under Secy . 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


1558 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


(PART II - - Sec . 


. 


is to the Centra the factory, hit Mines provisionable 


New Delhi, the 7th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2071 . - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer . 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the factory of Messrs , Associated 
Industries Limited , Gogo Road , Bhavanagar , have agreed that the provisions of 
the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) should be made applicable 
to such factory ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sction ( 4 ) of 
sction 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory. 

2 . This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
June, 1956 . 

[No. PF.57 ( 11 ) / 56. ) 
R . C . SAKSENA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 7th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2072 . - In pursuance of section 8 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 ( 11 of 
1948 ) and rule 3 of the Minimum Wages Central Advisory Board ) Rules, 1949 , 
made under section 29 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby nominatex 
Shri C . N . Kirkus, the Imperial Tobacco Co. of India Ltd ., Virginia House , 37, 
Chowringhee, Calcutta - 16 , to be a Member of the Central Advisory Board , 
appointed in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 
No. S . R . O . 1799 , dated the 8th August 1956 , in the vacancy caused by the resignation 
of Shri P . Graham , Resident Director, Imperial Tobacco Company of India Ltd ., 
and makes the following amendment in the said notification , namely : 
Under the heading " Employer s representatives" , for the entry " 9. Shrt P . 

Graham , Resident Director, Imperial Tobacco Company of India Ltd ., 
Regal Building, Connaught Circus , New Delhi" , the entry " 9 . Shri C . 
No. Kirkus, the Imperial Tobacco Co . of India Ltd ., Virginia House , 37 , 
Chowringhee, Calcutta 16 " , shall be substituted . 

[ No , LWI(1) -8 ( 19 ) /86.) 
New Delhi, the 10th September 1958 
S . R . O . 2078 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 5 of the Labour Oncers 
( Central Pool) Recruitment and Conditions of Service Rules, 1951, the Govern 
ment of India hereby recognise the institutions mentioned in column I below in 
respect of the degree or diploma in social work mentioned in the corresponding 
entry in column II for the purpose of the said sub - rule , 


II 


1. Any University in India established by law . 


2 . Tata Institute of Social Science , Bombay. 
3 . Kashi Vidya Pith , Banaras. 


Any Degree or Diploma in Social Work 

granted by such University . 
Diploma in Social Science Administration . 
Degree of Master of Applied Sociology . 


[No. LWI- 21 ( 2 ) / 55 .) 
P , N . SHARMA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 10th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2074. - In exercise of the powers conterred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
1 of the Industrial Disputes ( Amendment and Miscellaneous Provisions ) Act, 
1966 ( 36 of 1956 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints the 17th day of 
September 1956 , as the date on which the following provisions of the said Act 
ghall come into force : - 

Clause ( d ) of section 9 ; 
Clause (b ) of section 10 ; 
Clauses ( c ) and ( e ) of section 14 ; 
Sections 20 and 27 ; and 
Clauses ( a ) , ( b ) und (c ) of section 32. 

[No. LR .1 ( 38 ) / 80 .) 
F , M , NATHANIEL , Under Secy. 


PART II Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 18 , 1956 


1559 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi - 2, the 8th September 1956 
S .R .O . 2075 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by caluse (a ) of section 8 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 ( XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the Alm entitled " The Story of Bob and Sally " and its 
Trailer produced by the Social Guidance Enterprises , U . S . A ., in respect of which 
" A " certificate No. 33 and " U " certificate No. 2326 , dated the 19th June , 1951 
respectively were granted by the Central Board of Film Censors to Messrs 
Western India Theatres Ltd ., Bombay shall be deemed to be uncertified Alms 
in the whole of India . 

[No . 12 / 41 / 53 -FII / 1.) 


S . R . O . 2076 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by caluse ( a ) of section 6 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the film entitled " Sins of the Fathers" and its Trailer pro 
duced by the Canadian Motion Picture Producers Ltd ., Canada , in respect of 
which " A " certificate No . 95 dated the 25th February , 1954 and " U " certificate 
No. 10222 dated the 21st January , 1954 respectively were granted by the Central 
Board of Film Censors to Messrs Radiant Pictures , Calcutta , shall be deemed to 
be uncertified Alms in the whole of India . 

[No. 12 / 41/ 53 - FII/ 2 .] 


S . R . O , 2077. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of section 6 
of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 ( XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the Alm entitled " Because of Eve" and its Trailer produced 
by William Danials Becon , U . S . A ., in respect of which " A " certiAcate No . 98 
and " U " certificato No . 10455 , dated the 1st March , 1954 respectively were granted 
by the Central Board of Film Censors to Messrs M . B . Billimoria & Son , Bombay, 
shall be deemed to be uncertified films in the whole of India . 

[ No. 12 /41/53 - FII/3. ] 
New Delhi- 2, the 11th September 1958 
S .R . O . 2078 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
5 of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that the Alm entitled " Backlash " and its Trailer produced by M / s 
Universal International Films Incorporation , U .S . A ., shall be deemed to be an 
uncertified film in the whole of India . 

[ No. 8 / 11 / 56 - FC . ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1950 
8 . R . O . 2079. - In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the pro 
visions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the order of 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting No. S . R . O . 
148, dated the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with previous approval of 
the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifles Alm specified in column 2 of the 
schedule hereto annexed , in all its language versions to be of the description 
specified against it in the corresponding entry of column 6 of the said schedule . 


SCHEDULE 


S . No . Title of the Film 


Name of the Produ - Source of Supply 

cer 


Whether a scientific 

Alm or A film 
intended for cdu 
cational purposes or 
u flm dealing with 
news and current 
cvents or a docu 
mentary film . 


I. Indien Newı Review 

No . 412 . 


Govertiment of 
Indie , Films Divi 
SJOn , Bombay. 


Government of Film dealing with 
India , Films Divi- news and current 
Non , Bombay . 

kot . 


(No. 14 / 2 / 06 - F D . App . 100 . ) 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy. 


1560 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


[PART 1] --Sec. 3 


un 


MINISTES LUFTFONANCE 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2080. — The President hereby directs that the following amendment shall 
be made in the scheme of Workmen s Contributory Provident Fund as introduced 
In the Government of India late Finance Department Resolution No. F . 33 ( 3 ) - II / 44, 
dated the 16th April, 1945 , as amended from time to time, namely : 

In the said Resolution , in paragraph 2 clause ( 6 ) shall be omitted and clauses 
( 7 ) , ( 8 ) and ( 9 ) shall respectively be renumbered as clauses (6 ) , ( 7 ) and ( 8 ) . 

[No. F .34 ( 4 ) -EV /56 .] 
J. C . SEN , Dy. Secy 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1956 
REPORT OF THE CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE RESERVE BANK 

OF INDIA FOR THE YEAR JULY 1, 1955 - JUNE 30 , 1956 
S . R . O . 2081.. - In accordance with Section 53 ( 2 ) of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act, 1934 , the Central Board of Directors submits to the Government of India the 
annual report on the working and accounts of the Bank for the 22nd year ended 
June 30 , 1956 . 

DEVELOPMENTS IN THE ECONOMY 
2 . A general retrospect. The year under review , which marked the close of 
the First Five Year Plan , recorded a further increase in the level of development 
expenditure . Once again , there was a substantial rise in industrial production . 
Agricultural production , however, would seem , on the provisional data available , 
to have declined to a slight extent as compared with the high levels of 1954 -55 
and 1953 - 54 . In both those years , it will be recalled , the production was about 
12 per cent higher than in 1952 -53. Agriculture accounts for over 45 per cent of 
the national income; it follows that the relatively stationary level of agricultural 
production since 1953 -54 has affected the rate of growth in spite of the big advance 
registered in the organised industrial sector , 


3 . National income is estimated to have risen by 18 per cent over the period 
1951 - - 56 , thus showing a larger rate of increase than was originally anticipated , 
Much the greater part of the increase , however , occurred in the first three years 
of the Plan . It has been estimated that national income in real terms increased 
by only 1. 3 per cent in 1954 - 55 as against a rise of 6 per cent in 1953 -54. 


4 . Since 1953- 54 , while the real national product has shown only a modest 
increase , the stepping up of developmental expenditure has been accompanied 
by larger deficits in government accounts . There has at the same time occurred 
a rapid expansion of bank credit and moncy supply , which was particularly marked 
in 1955 - 56 . Reflecting thesc trends in production and money supply , there was 
an almost continuous rise in prices during 1955 - 56 , when the earlier decline of 
1954 -55 was reversed, particularly in respect of agricultural commodities , 


çat aresubstantiates 
of this phe gains initio 


5 . However , the developments during the year under reyiew may be appro 
priately viewed in a somewhat longer perspective . The principal economic indi 
cators over the past five years broadly show that India has been able to combine 
In a substantial measure economic devedopment with financial stability . Among 
the main features of this phase of economic growth may be mentioned the increas 
ing outlays of the Plan , the gains in industrial and agricultural production , the 
balance in the external payments position as a whole , and a better flow of savings 
which imparted strength to the capital market . Apart from all these and contri 
buting to the total result were the judicious Ascal and monetary policies pursued 
during this period . 

6 . The trend of prices in the country during 1955 - 56 may also be viewed in 
the wider context of economic trends abroad . In most countries , by early 1955 , 
there was a re - emergence of inflationary forces , especially in Western Europe and 
America . Boom conditions during 1955 were on the whole more widespread and 
were probably more intense than any earlier experience of a similar kind . The 


PART II- SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


1561 


- - - - 


- 


central problem was one of maintaining stability under conditions of full employ 
ment and , for most European economies , also of safeguarding external reserves. 
While flexible monetary and credit policies had been gradually re - established 
since about 1951 as an important means of maintaining financial and economic 
stability , during 1955 there was even greater reliance on them to check the 
inflationary trends . Besides discount rate changes and open market operations , 
selective credit restraints , directives to banks and variable cash reserve require 
ments have also played an important part. Further, fiscal and other more direct 
measures have been adopted for restraining investment and consumption expendi 
tures . The limitations to the effectiveness of monetary and credit policies arose 
from the nature of the boom itself : it was not a boom mainly of inventory 
accumulation and speculative transactions but one arising principally from higher 
levels of consumption and investment in relation to output. The boom was also 
sustained in wolle Couries by the high levels at which public investment, which 
did not respond to monetary policy , was maintained . 

7 . The above account of economic developments in India over a five - year 
period and of economic trends abroad by no means diminishes the need for a care 
ful and continuous assessment of the current economic situation with a view to 
appropriate adjustments in the pace and pattern of planned development and in 
fiscal and monetary policies from time to time. 

8 . Trends in production in agriculture . — The record level of agricultural output 
in 1953 - 54 was followed by relatively stationary aggregate levels of production . 
The index of agricultural production , with 1949 - 50 as base year, was 114 . 1 in 
1953 - 54 , and 113 .9 in 1954 - 55 * ; this , however , compared with 95 - 8 in 1950 -51. The 
output of foodgrains in particular touched a relatively high level, at 68 . 7 million 
tons, in 1953 - 54 ; it decline to 65 : 8 million tons in 1954 - 55 . The first Plan target 
for 1955 - 56 was 61. 6 million tons. The outlook for 1955 -56, on the basis of avail 
able estimates, indicates that production of coarse grains will be somewhat lower 
but that of rice and wheat will be satisfactory . Among commercial crops, the 
production of cotton and oilseeds in 1955 -50 is cxpected to be lower than in the 
previous year , while the output of jute and sugarcane may be somewhat larger. 

9 . The revised foodgrains target of 81: 5 million tons by 1960 -61, accepted at 
the recent Conference of State Agriculture Ministers , represents a 25 per cent, 
increase over the current level or 65 million tons, as against a 15 per cent rise 
postulated in the Second Plan . It such an appreciable increase should be attained , 
it would make a signifcant contribution to stability in the economy against the 
inflationary repercussions of deficit financing . 

10 . - - and , in industry . - Industrial production has been steadily on the up 
grade during the last few years . During 1955 - 56 , on the basis of data for the 
first ten months, the average index of industrial production ( revised ) , with 1951 
as base year , recorded a rise of 8 per cent over the corresponding period of the 
previous year. The rise has been shared by almost all major groups of industries , 
in the public as well as private sectors . The continuous rise in industrial pro 
duction has been one of the hearteni.. g features of the Indian economy in recent 
years , and it may be expected that this process will be assisted forward with the 
broadening of the industrial base under the Second Five Year Plan . 

11. The problem of rising prices. The price situation during the year was 
characterised by an almost continuous uptrend , in contrast to the sharp decline 
in the previous year, The general index of wholesale prices , with year ended 
August 1939 as base , rose by 16 . 7 per cent from 345 at the end of June 1955 to 
402 at the end of June 1956 . In 1954 - 55 there had been a net decline of 10 per 
cent. The average for the year 1955 - 56 was only 2 . 2 per cent higher than that 
tor 1954 - 55 . The rise in prices has been reflected in living costs , the all- India 
working class consumer price index , with 1949 as base year , having recorded an 
increase from 93 in June 1955 to 103 in April 1958 . 


12 . The price rise was not, however, general or uniform ; it was mostly confined 
to agricultural commodities and semi-manufactures, the prices of industrial pro 
ducts remaining relatively steady . The rise in food articles was the largest ( 30 
per cent) , the prices of almost all commodities in the group showing an increase , 
It may be recalled that it was precisely the groups food articles , industrial raw 
materials and semi-manufactures , that experienced sharp declines in the 
previous year, so that the rise in prices during the year could be considered partly 
as a corrective to the previous fall. In fact , the various governmental measures 
that were taken in the latter half of 1954 - 55 to stabilise prices at reasonable levels 

* The index for 1954 -55 has since been revised to 116 -4 ; the provisional index for 
1955 - 58 is placed at 113. 7 . 


1562 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


(PART II - SEC. 3 


themselves may have contributed to some extent to the subsequent rise. How 
ever , the continued price rise is attributable mainly to the decline in agricultural 
output, especially of foodgrains in 1955 - 56 , larger exports of certain industrial 
raw materials , and an increase in demand resulting from the large increase in 
investment expenditure and rise in incomes. It is also probably partly stimulated 
by speculative influences . Governmental measures to curb the rise have included 
the banning of expo . ts of foodgrains, and arranging for imports and releases to the 
market of substantial quantities of rice and wheat. 


13 . As regards the longer - term prospect, two sets of considerations have to 
be taken into account. On the one hand , the increase in developmental outlay 
met in part by deficit financing may be expected to exert an upward pressure on 
prices. On the other hand , there will be the important countervailing factor of 
increased agricultural and industrial production . A policy of maintaining buffer 
stocks, assisted by an extensive warehousing programme, should also help to 
moderate fluctuations in agricultural prices . Against the background of the 
recent rise in prices and with the prospect of deficit financing in the next few 
years , therefore , the attainment of a substantial increase in agricultural output, 
besides procurement of larger supplies of agricultural commodities from abroad , 
will acquire added significance . As already stated , continued vigilance and 
appropriate flexibility in fiscal and monetary policies will also be called for . 


14 . Expanding money supply .- - The year witnessed a substantial monetary and 
credit expansion . Money supply with the public ( excluding State Governments 
deposits with the Reserve Bank ) increased by Rs. 214 crores during the year 
under review , or by 10 8 per cent, to a total of Rs . 2 , 191 crores. The net 1 ise over 
the entire First Five Year Plan period ( April 1951 – March 1958 ) was also of 
about the same order , at Rs. 208 crores . This resulted from an initial phase ot 
contraction to the extent of Rs. 214 crores in the first two years, followed by a 
progressive increase in the next three years by an aggregate of Rs. 420 crores . 
Of the increase in money supply during 1955 - 56 , expansion in currency accounted 
for about four- fifths. The main expansionary factors were deficit financing by 
Government and the rise in bank credit , the balance of payments impact being 
slightly contractionist. As has been noted earlier , reflecting the growing economic 
activity in the country , particularly the increasing developmental outlays on a 
wide front through the public sector, there is a modification in the seasonal pattern 
of changes in money supply ; the contraction during the slack season is fending 
to be smaller , both relatively and absolutely , in comparison with the expansion 
in the busy season , the magnitude of which has been rising . The contraction during 
the 1955 slack season , for instance , was a nominal Rs. 3 crores, as against Rs. 77 
crores in 1954 and Rs. 128 crores in 1953; on the other hand , the expansion during 
the 1955 - 56 busy season , though it set in somewhat later than is usual, was 
Rs. 264 crores, and may be compared with the busy season expansion of Rs. 222 
crores in 1954 - 55 and Rs. 172 crores in 1953 -64. In tho 1966 slack season , however , 
the contraction has been much larger than in 1956 , namely , Rs. 81 crores (upto 
August 10 ) , though it is still substantially smaller than the expansion in the pre 
ceding busy season , 


15 . The rise in money supply has to be viewed in relation to the expansionary 
trends in production , industrial and agricultural, and the general level of economic 
activity . Besides , in an economy like India s where , under the impact of a major 
developmental effort , a steady extension of the boundaries of the money 
economy is under way, the level of money supply may be expected to show some 
rise relatively to national income, if price levels are to remain fairly steady . How 
ever , recently the rise in money supply has tended to outpace the rise in production 
levels and economic activity . 


10 . — and , bank crodit. - Bank credit during the year recorded a sharp rise and 
contributed to a large expansion of money supply , Scheduled bank credit 
increased by Rs. 149 crores over the year to Rs. 759 crores as compared to a rise 
of Rs. 60 crores in 1954 - 55 . On the other hand , net deposit liabilities of scheduled 
banks increased much less than bank credit during the year, by Rs. 98 crores . 
The higher level of banking activity during the year reflects largely the impact of 

Towing economic activity under the Plan . The inadequacy of the rise in banks 
resources was acutely felt in the busy season when scheduled bank credit 
expanded by Rs. 180 crores, whereas the net deposit liabilities increased by only 
Rs. 38 crortes. Consequently , banks had to resort to larger borrowings from the 
Reserve Bank . During the busy season (mid - October 1955 to mid -May 1956 ) , 
Buch borrowings increased by Rs. 67 crores, of which Rs. 48 crores were under 
the Bill Market Scheme. Borrowings outsetanding at the end of the year wero 
Rs. 53 crores or Rs. 36 crores higher than a year before 


Part II — SEC. 3 ] THE GAZUTTE OF INDIA . SZEPTEMBER 18, 1986 1563 
- = = - - = = 

17 . Bi Market Scheme. It was stated in last year s Report that the Bill 
Market Scheme had begun to impart greater elasticity and autonomy to the Indian 
money market; a further development in this direction during the year under 
review was the greater interest evinced by the exchange banks in the facilities 
available under the Scheme; a factor making tor this is , of course, the higher cost 
of borrowing abroad . In the light of the marked progress made by the Scheme 
pince its introduction in January 1952 and the rise in deposits and investments 
at scheduled banks, the Bank raised , with effect from March 1 , 1956 , its lending 
rate under Section 17 ( 4 ) ( e ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act from 3 to 31 per 
cent. From the same date the concession in respect of the stamp duty was with 
drawn . 

18 . Oredit olicy . While general credit policy remained substantially unaltered 
except for the small advance in the bill market rate , the more recent trends in 
bank credit and prices have also prompted greater vigilance against possible 
growth of speculative activity . Accordingly , with a view to bringing bank 
Accommodation for financing trade in important commodities, as also in shares and 
debentures, under close observation , the Reserve Bank issued on April 4 , 1966 a 
circular to all scheduled banks and two State - a93ociated non - scheduled banks 
calling for fortnightly returns of advances . The monthly statements of advances , 
which were being received prior to this circular , revealed that banks advances 
against paddy and rice had shown an unhealthy increase over the year to March 
1956 ; therefore , on May 17 , 1956 , the Bank issued a circular letter to all scheduled 
banks and two State - associated non - scheduled banks impressing upon them the 
need to refrain from excessive lending against commodities and also from assist 
ing speculative hoarding of stocks, They were directed not to increase any credit 
limits in respect of advances against the security of paddy and rice or sanction 
any fresh credit limit in excess of Rs. 50 ,000 in respect of such advances , and to 
increase the existine margin in respect of the limits and advances by an amount 
not less than 10 per cent of the value of these commodities . Scheduled banks 
were further requested to endeavour to reduce their aggregate advances against 
paddy and rice to a level not exceeding 25 per cent above that prevailing at the 
corresponding time in the previous year 


19 . The returns of advances as of June 29 , 1956 indicate that the advances of 
scheduled banks against paddy and rice , which stood at Rs. 26 crores on April 27 
and Rs. 25 crores on May 11, 1966 had declined to Rs. 151 crores . The decline was 
41 per cent over two months as compared to 9 per cent in 1955 as well as in 
1954, The level of advances was still higher than in the previous year by 52 per 
gent ( as against 120 per cent before the issue of the directive on May 11, 1956 ) , 
but exceeded the 1954 level by 21 per cent only . The banking system co - operated 
fully in carrying out the specific terms of the directive , though the need for 
caution in lending remains. 


20 . Government finances . The rising scale of investment outlays under the 
Plan and increasing deficit - financing of Government expenditure , has been the 
other main expansionary factor at work in the economy. Plan outlays had 
moderately risen from Rs. 259 crores in 1951 -52 to Rs, 273 crores in 1952 -53 and 
Rs. 340 crores in 1953 - 54 , or a total of Rs. 872 crores in three years . There was a 
substantial stepping up subsequently to about Rs. 475 crores in 1954 -55 and 
Rs. 600 crores in 195 - 5 . During the five years 1951 – 56 , the combined deficit of 
the Central and State Governments , as measured by the actual net addition to 
the Treasury bill holdings of the Reserve Bank and the draft on Government 
cash balances, would have been somewhat less than Rs. 400 crores ; of this , deficit of 
about Rs. 100 crores and Rs. 160 crores are estimated to have been incurred in the 
last two years of the Plan . Even in the last two years , the deficits have, in fact , 
been smaller than the budget estimates , mainly on account of a shortfall in Plan 
outlays as compared to the original provision . Developmental outlay in 1956 -57 
under the Second Plan may be placed at about Rs. 750 croresan increase of 
Rs. 150 crores over 1955 - 56 — which is reflected in a larger estimated deficit at 
Rs. 356 croreg for the Centre . 

21. The aggregate tax revenue of Central and State Governments was Rs. 635 
crores in 1950 -51 ( pre - Plan base year ) and formed 6 . 5 per cent of national income; 
in 1955 - 56 aggregate tax revenue was of the order of Rs. 735 crores (adjusted for 
the increase in land revenue since 1950 -51 attributable to zamindari abolition 
for which there is offsetting expenditure ) , which may constitute a slightly higher 
proportion of national Income; this proportion is to rise significantly under the 
Plan . 


22 . Rosources for the Sooond Plan . - The estimate of financial resources for an 
aggregate Plan outlay of Rs. 4, 800 crorce in the public sector during the Second 


1564 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[PART II — SEC. 3 


- - 


- - - 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


Plan period leaves a gap of Rs. 400 crores , after taking into account budgetary 
resources of Rs. 2 ,400 crores that can be raised by Central and State Govern 
ments through taxation , borrowings and other receipts , external resources 
amounting to Rs. 800 crores and projected deficit financing of Rs. 1, 200 crores . 
It has been stated that this gap would also be largely Alled by taxation . The 
projected level of Plan outlays in the public sector under the Second Plan . 
averaging Rs. 960 crores a year, would involve a considerable increase in tax effort 
of the Central and State Governments and the fullest mobilisation of private 
savings through various borrowing schemes . 


23 . Loans and Small Savings. - - Aggregate net market borrowings during the . 
First Plan period have exceeded the Plan target of Rs. 115 crores by Rs. 62 crores , 
In fact, taking into account the sales of securities effected in recent years from 
the cash balance investment accounts of Central and State Governments and by 
the Reserve Bank from its portfolio , the net absorption of securities by the market 
during the five years of the First Plan has been even larger , being of the order 
of Rs. 250 crores . During the first few months of this period , there had in fact 
been net purchases by the Bank . The dis - inflationary implications of the Bank s 
new monetary policy since mid -November 1951 are brought out by the fact that 
during the period December 1951 to March 1956 there were net sales of Rs. 46 
crores of government securities to the public on the Bank s account, as against net 
purchases of securities of Rs. 210 crores during the period January 1948 to 
November 1951. 


24 . Total small savings collections of Rs. 235 crores have also shown an 
improvement of Rs. 10 crores over the original Plan estimate . These results partly 
reflect the cautious approach of the First Plan estimates which were based on the 
experience of the difficult years preceding it. On the experience , in particular , of 
the sustained improvement in market loans as well as small savings since 1953 -64, 
and taking into account the much larger requirements of the Second Plan , net 
borrowings from the public during the five years 1956 - 61 have been placed at 
Rs. 1 , 200 crores , comprising broadly Rs. 700 crores from market loans and Rs. 500 
crores in small savings . A borrowing target of this order would require a vigorous 
drive. The borrowing operations would doubtless be facilitated by the substantial 
measure of deficit financing that is contemplated . However , since all the Plan 
estimates are based on the assumption of constant ( 1955 - 56 ) prices , the borrowing 
programme, like the taxation programme should be more appropriately considered 
apart from the influence of budgetary deficits . 


25 . The technique of market borrowings for the Central and State Govern 
ments is being continuously reoriented to fit in , on the one hand , with the greatly 
increased requirements for developmental expenditure and, on the other , with 
the changing conditions of the market. Accordingly , in 1954 -55 the expedient was 
tried of Taising a combined loan for Central and State Governments which was 
kept on tap for nearly five months and for which every effort was made to harness 
popular enthusiasm . Though the results seemed satisfactory in that the total 
amount subscribed to the 3 per cent National Plan Loan , 1964 amounted to Rs . 158 
crores , the injection into the market of such a large amount in the form of one 
security had its inevitable repercussion on its price; tho loan immediately went to 
a discount and remained depressed for a long time, the quotation having receded 
at one time to Rs. 97 - 11 against the issue price of Rs. 98 - 8 . During the year under 
review , therefore, it was decided to revert to the normal practice of first issuing 
a Central loan and then the loans of the various State Governments . Accordingly . 
the 31 per cent National Plan Bonds - - Second Serias - 1965 , for the Central Govern 
ment was floated on July 1 , 1955 at an issue price of Rs. 98 - 8 giving a redemption 
yield of 3 . 68 per cent. Conversion facilities were offered to the holders of 21 per 
cent loans 1955 and 44 per cent loan , 1955 - 60 . The loan was closed on July 4 , 
1955 on being fully subscribed , the total subscriptions amounting to Rs. 104 crores, 
out of which conversions accounted for Rs. 58 crores . The compensation which 
was payable to the shareholders of the Imperial Bank of India in the form of 
government securities was also paid in this loan from the contributions made in 
cash to this loan by the Reserve Bank and such sales of these securities as were 
made were easily absorbed by the market. 


26 . Şubsequently , in mid - August , loans for ten States were issued . While 
maintaining the interest rate at 4 per cent as in the case of the previous State issues 
made in 1953 -54, the period of the loans was increased from 10 to 12 years and the 
issue prices ranged from Rs. 100 to Rs. 99 depending on the quotations for the 
existing loans. The aggregate amount for which the loans were issued wag 
Rs. 35 - 75 crores and it was proposed to kcep the loans open for a fortnight. They 
were, however, so heavily over - subscribed that the lists had to be closed , in most 


Part II- Sec . 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 1565 

. 
cases , within two days, the aggregate subscriptions amounting to Rs, 51: 34 crores 
In accordance with the provisions of the loan notifications, an amount of Rs. 42- 27 
crores only could be allotted . Since there was a considerable unsatisfied demand 
trom the public for these loans and the States themselves needed more money , a 
second issue for 7 States was made for a further Rs. 11 . 75 crores for which also 
the subscriptions received were much in excess , having amounted to Rs. 16 : 43 
crores out of which Rs. 12 .79 crores were allotted . Thus, the total amount raised 
through State loans was Rs. 55 crores and aggregate for Central and State loans 
came to Rs. 159 crores. Except for the loans of two or three States, which for 
sometime were quoted at a slight discount, all the new State loans maintained a 
stable price level. In fact, in subsequent months most of the loans appreciated 
in value owing to the keen demand from institutional investors . It would thus 
appear that the State loans have now acquired an established market and are no 
longer in the position they were two or three years ago, when it was difficult for 
purchasers of these loans to obtain them and for sellers to find buyers readily , 


27. The technique of issuing a number of separate loans, which proved so 
successful during the year under review , has been further developed in the loans 
issued after the lose of the year. For the Central Government itself instead of 
onc loan of niedium maturity three loans, viz ., 


(i ) a short - dated 6 - year loan maturing in 1962 at 34 per cent , 
( ii ) a medium - term 11- ycar loan maturing in 1967 at 31 per cent, and 
(iii ) a long-term 18 - year loan maturing in 1974 at 38 per cent, 


were floated at the issue prices of Rs. 98 , Rs. 98 - 8 and Rs. 98 - 8 , respectively . A 
total amount of Rs. 150 crores was fixed for all the three issues but no separate 
limits for individual loans were prescribed in order to give the fullest freedom 
to investors to exercise their choice and also to ascertain the preferences of the 
investing public and institutions in regard to the loans. Conversions of the 3 per 
çent Victory Loan 1957 accounted for Rs. 80 . 5 crores ; cash subscriptions amounted 
to Rs. 77 . 2 crores, the total subscriptions being Rs. 1577 crores, 


28 . The success of the Central and State Government loans issued during the 
year under review was, no doubt, partly due to the fact that at the time when 
these loans were floated the capital market was buoyant and there was a keen 
enquiry for investment from scheduled banks, which had experienced consider 
able accretion of deposits . It was this factor which contributed to the strength 
which the gilt -edged market continued to display upto about November 1955 
After this a distinct change came over the share market , and the money market 
during the busy season became extremely stringent and continued to be so even 
upto the end of the year of Report . The gilt - edged market , however, continued 
to show remarkable stability and strength in spite of the extreme tightness of the 
money market and in contrast with the sharp fluctuations in the share prices . 
The index number of Government of India loans ( 1949- 50100 ) rose almost conti 
nuously from 90 . 7 in June 1955 to 91 . 1 in June 1956 . The rise in price over the 
year in respect of individual loans ranged upto Rs . 3 - 4 in the case of the 3 per 
cent loan 1970 _ 75 . The non - terminable loans, however , recorded net declines 
owing to the operation of special factors . 


29 . The capital market and new issues . — The capital market maintained during 
the year the distinct improvement which had been noticed last year. There was 
brisk activity in new issues , and the equities market remained buoyant during 
the greater part of the year . Share values registered an almost continuous 
advance between July and November 1955 , the Reserve Bank s index of variable 
dividend industrial securities rising from 114 : 3 for the last week of June 1955 to 
131 . 9 by the closing week of November. Subsequently , a reaction occurred , the 
index dropping to 120 : 1 by the end of February 1956 . The relapse was due to an 
element of unhealthy speculation in stock trading which had been taking place 
carlie “ , apprehensions regarding the 1956 -57 tax proposals and fears of further 
measures of nationalisation following nationalisation of life insurance . The taxa 
tion proposals apparently proved to be less severe than had been apprehended . 
There was consequently some recovery , to 124 . 8 by the end of June 1956 . The 
recovery was also assisted by the restatement in April this year of the Govern 
ment s industrial policy objectives and methods and by expectation of substantial 
and increasing deficits for financing Plan outlays , which virtually ensure rising 
corporate profits ; the published corporate accounts also continue to record improve 
ment in earnings and dividends. 


1566 


THE GAZETTE OT INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1958 


[PART II - Suc . 3 


30 . While precise and complete data regarding capital issues for the private 
sector are not available , the total of new issues amounting to Rs. 1 crore and over 
each was about Rs. 20 crores during 1955 - 56 , as compared to about As, 10 crores in 
the previous year . The experience in regard to new issues and self - financing of 
new investment and replacements in recent years justifies a measure of confidence 
regarding the sources of financing of fixed capital investment in industry during 
the Second Plan period . To some extent, the resources available to the privata 
sector from new issues and selt - financing would be augmented by assistance from 
the various financial institutions set up by the State in recent years . It would 
remain necessary , however, to continue to pay the utmost attention to stimulating 
the flow of capital, foreign as well as domestic , into industry and to distribution 
of profits with due regard to the needs of the private sector for replacement, 
modernisation and expansion . 

31. Foreign trade and balance of paymonts -- The overall balance of payments 
for the year as a whole ( July 1955 _ June 1956 ) may show a deficit on current 
account, of the order of Rs. 20 crores, after taking into account receipt official 
grants , as against a surplus of Rs. 23 crores in the preceding year . The deficit 
during the year was the result of a surplus of Rs. 20 crores in the first nine months 
( July 1955 — March 1956 ) for which data are available and an estimated deficit of 
about Rs. 40 crores in the last quarter (April - June 1956 ) . The last quarter s 
deficit is partly due to seasonal factors. Foreign trade during the year was at a 
higher level than in the previous ycar , by about 6 per cent. During the first nine 
months of the Bank s accounting year for which data are available , the increase in 
imports , of nearly Rs, 50 crores, was larger than the rise in exports , of about 
Rs. 15 crores — so that the trade deficit widened . The rise in imports directly attri 
butable to the expansion of developmental outlays, is significant in view of the 
sizeable fall of over Rs. 50 crores in the value of food imports during the period ; 
Government s policy in regard to imports has been one of progressive but con 
trolled liberalisation . Similarly , the small rise in exports, mainly under oils and 
raw cotton , has to be appraised against the rather sharp decline in the value of 
tea exports and lower earnings from jute and cotton textile exports. India s 
foreign exchange assets declined during the year by Rs. 3 . crores to Rs. 781 crores . 

32 . During the First Plan period , the payments position on current account 
showed a net deficit of Rs. 27 crores, taking into account receipt of official grants 
aggregating Rs. 96 crores . The deficit was wholly associated with transactions in 
1951-52, when there was a heavy deficit mainly accounted for by the unusually 
large food imports . Since 1952- 53, there have been surpluses each year . When 
the First Plan was formulated in December 1952, it was thought that there might 
be an annual deficit in balance of payments of the order of Rs. 180 — 200 crores 
during the remainder of the Plan period . Actually , the position has been much 
better, chiefly on account of a large saving in food imports and a lower level of 
machinery imports than anticipated attributable to the shortfall in total Plan 
outlay particularly in the industrial sector . In the event, therefore, the with 
drawal from sterling balances during the First Plan period has been about 
Rs. 140 crores, as against Rs. 290 crores originally envisaged . In view of the largo 
requirements for imports of machinery and equipment during the Second Plan 
period , besides a draft of Rs. 200 crores on sterling balances , external assistance 
has been assumed at as high a level as Rs. 800 crores . Under the circumstances , 
the urgency of export promotion cannot be over - emphasized , though it would be 
idle to expect any spectacular results . 

33 . The progpect . The main objectives of the Plan , within the wider progress 
to a socialist pattern of society , are stated to be a sizeable increase in national 
income which is expected to be of the order of 25 per cent, rapid industrialisation , 
with accent on development of basic and heavy industries, a large expansion of 
employment opportunities and reduction of inequalities in incomes and wealth . 
Considering the prevailing volume of unemployment and its social costs , increase in 
employment opportunities and their diversification are taken to be important 
objectives by themselves. While , appropriately enough , there is accent on labour 
intensive schemes in certain sectors, it is axiomatic that, in the longer run , the 
yolume of employment can rise , and that of unemployment or under - employment 
diminish , only as a result of, and in broad relationship to , economic development. 

34 . I the Second Five Year Plan , so much bolder than the first, has on account 
of that very reason more and bigger problems to face, it also starts with the 
advantage that much experience has been accumulated and many gains have been 
consolidated . Not least among the results achieved by the First Plan is the 
overall economic and financial stability of the country since 1952. The stage i. 
thus well set for the very considerable effort represented by the Second Plan . An 
important aspect of the total problem will be the devising of measures which , 
without unduly affecting price stability , will help to step up effectively both 
investment and savings on the one hand , and output and employment on the other. 


. 


- 


I 


- 


= 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 1567 

---- = — - - - - -- - - -- 
35 . The total investment in the cronomy, estimated to have hren around 
Rs. 3 , 100 crores during the First Plan period , more or less equally divided between 
the public and private sectors, is ulanned to rise to Rs. 8 , 200 crores, the ratio of 
public to private investment shifting to approximately 60 : 40 . As mentioned 
earlier , according to present estimates , deficit - financing during the five years 1956 
01 would amount to Rs. 1, 200 crores. The expansionary effect of this measure of 
deficit- financing on money supply will be partly neutralised by the withdrawal 
from sterling balances. The remaining net deficit and increase in bank credit , 
partly to be assisted by the Reserve Bank s own lending operations, would 
together lead to a considerable expansion in money supply . 


36 . If the targets of additional taxation and borrowing are achieved and the 
volume of deficit - financing mentioned above remains as the outside limit, there 
may not be a serious threat to financial stability , provided production , agricultural 
and industrial, expands at a satisfactory rate . The importance of an adequate 
increase in production , pl. ticularly of food and other essential articles like cloth , 
cannot be too strongly emphasised in this connection . A big rise in development 
expenditure would he reflected in additions to large numbers of small incomes 
and hence in a considerable increase in the demand for , and pressure on prices of , 
articles of mass - consumption like food and cloth . Such increase in demand might 
be directed in advanced industrialised communities to luxuries and semi- luxury 
articles , but in an under- fed and ill - clothed country such as ours there is likely 
to be a particularly heavy impact on the prices of essential commoditics . These 
results are likely to occur even if there is a corresponding increase in taxation , as 
new or additional incomes will açc ue to parts of the population whose demand for 
elementary noressities is high , while taxation will, in the main , reduce consumption 
of less essential commodities . The additional demand for consumer goods arising 
out of development expenditure will be the larger the bigger the gap between 
expenditure and tax and loan receipts viz ., deficit - financing . 


37 . It may be recalled that during the period of the First Plan , the targets of 
production of food and cloth have been far excccded ; nevertheless the production 
has been fully absorbed and there has been no glut of either commodity on the 
market. It is in this context that the recent attempts to shift the emphasis of the 
Plan to larger agricultural production assume special significance. For , if food 
is in fact produced on a somewhat larger scale than is contemplated under the 
Plan , that will , indeed , be a most desirable development; and it will improve 
fu ther the balance of the structure of the Second Plan . But in finding the 
additional resources for agriculture it is necessary to ensure that the overall size 
of the plan is not further increased for any such increase would impose an undue 
strain on the economy. 


38 . Reserve Bank of India (Amendment) BUI, 1956 . - Keeping in view the 
requirements of monetary and credit policies in this context, important amend 
ments have been proposed to the Reserve Bank of India Act, vesting the Reserve 
Bank with power to vary reserve requirements of scheduled banks. The Reserve 
Bank of India (Amendment ) Bill, 1956 , which was recently passed by Parliament, 
proposes to establish a system of flexible reserve ratios , giving the Bank the power 
to vary the cash reserves which scheduled banks have to maintain with the 
Reserve Bank between 5 and 20 per cent in the case of demand Habilities and 
between 2 and 8 per cent in the case of time liabilities as against the present ratios 
which remain fixed at 5 per cent and 2 per cent, respectively , under Section 42 of 
the Reserve Bank of India Act . The Bill also amends the currency reserve pro 
vision ( Sections 33 and 37) . It provides for a minimum holding of Rs, 400 crores 
in foreign securities and of Rs. 115 crores in gold in the Issue Department of the 
Bank ; the existing requirement is that not less than 40 per cent of the assets of 
the Issue Department must consist of gold coin , gold bullion or foreign securities 
provided that the amount of gold coin and gold bullion is not at any time less than 
Rs. 40 crores in value , gold being valued for this purpose at the rate of Rs. 21 - 3 - 10 
per tola . The amending Bill also provides for revaluing the gold holdings of 
the Bank at the rate agreed to by the International Monetary Fund, namely , 
Rs. 62 - 8 per tola ( i.e , equivalent of $ 35 an ounce ) . Provision is made in the Bilj 
to suspend temporarily the assets requirements in respect of foreign securities, 
provided that the amount of foreign securities, held in the Issue Department shall 
not at any time be less than Rs. 300 crores in value . 


39 . State Bank of India . - An important aspect of planned economic growth is 
the building up and strengthening of financial and credit institutions for mobilise 
tion and channelling of resources. The active part which the Reserve Bank hus 


1968 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


[ PART II — Sec . 3 


- - 


- - 


been playing in this process has been described in some detail in previous Reports . 
A significant development, which might well be regarded as opening a new 
chapter in the evolution of Indian banking , was the establishment of the State Bank 
of India on July 1 , 1955 . Reference was made in last year s Report to the main 
provisions of the Statute under which the Imperial Bank (with certain minor 
exceptions dictated by legal reasons and pertaining to branches in foreign coun 
tries ) was transformed into the State Bank . The payment of compensation to the 
shareholders of the Imperial Bank was substantially completed within four 
months of the acquisition , and the bulk of the share capital of the new institution 
stands vested in the Reserve Bank . 


40 . Among the immediate objectives of the State Bank is a vigorous expansion 
of branches , the pace indicated in the Statute being 400 additional branches over 
a period of five years . As part of this programme, an initial list of 100 centres 
was approved by the Central Government, in addition to 51 centres remaining 
over from the older programme of the Imperial Bank . The preparation of further 
lists is in hand . The State Bank of India has opened 32 new branches during the 
first year of its existence . It may be recalled that, over a period of four years 
from July 1 , 1951, the Imperial Bank had opened only 63 branches out of an 
approved list of 114 centres which it was to cover in five years. In regard to the 
opening of new branches which may be initially unremunerative, but khich 
are in the larger public interest as stimulating banking development, the State 
Bank is of course differently situated to its predecessor and indeed to any bank 
whose policies are circumscribed by a shareholding which is predominantly 
private. For, it was precisely in order to make specific provision for initial losses 
on unremunerative branches opened in the public interest, as also for other items 
of loss or expenditure broadly falling in the same category , that an Integration 
and Development Fund had been devised as a feature of the Statute governing 
the State Bank of India . Into this Fund are credited the dividends payable to 
the Reserve Bank on that part of its sharcholding which is equal to Afty - five 
per cent. of the total issued capital of the State Bank ; and further contributions 
can also , as and when necessary , be made by the Reserve Bank or the Central 
Government. There has already been credited to the Fund a sum of Rs. 24 - 75 
lakhs, representing the dividend earned for the Arst six months on the appropriate 
portion of the shares held by the Reserve Bank , 


41. Only the future can unfold the full significance of the State Bank of India 
for the country s economic development: a development which is intimately bound 
up , in both the public and private sectors, with the Second Five Year Plan , 
The establishment of the State Bank coincides with a crucial stage in that 
development. Its potentialities for growth and expansion are far beyond those 
at any time open to its predecessor. So too are the opportunities it has for 
mobilising resources and , without deviating from its orbit, of influencing their 
utilisation in a manner consonant with the objectives of the Plan , That the role 
of the bank vis - a - vis the private sector of commerce and inclustry will be one of 
undiminished usefulness and importance is clear from the assurances given on 
behalf of Government. Indeed , it may be expected that the importance of its 
role vis - a - vis both the sectors will, as time goes by , be greatly enhanced . With 
the programme of expansion enjoined on it and the framework of functions 
designed for it in the statute , there cannot be the least doubt that the State 
Bank will not merely continue to be the foremost commercial banking institution 
of the country , but will grow in size, stature and significance . Another aspect 
may be emphasized , The State Bank s charter is based on the axiom that there 
does not exist in essence , and need not obtain in fact . a contradiction between 
sound business principles on the one hand and the public interest on the other. 
The device already mentioned whereby the uneconomic part of the cost of 
branch expansion undertaken in the public interest is debited to a special fund 
provided by the State is only one of many examples of how a reconciliation can 
in practice be effected between the two sets of considerations involved . With 
mutual understanding, commonness of purpose and co - ordination of action in 
other words with the fullest co -operation between the Government of India , 
the Reserve Bank and the State Bank , there is little doubt that such a synthesis 
can be achieved and that the State Bank , complementing the functions of the 
Reserve Bank in an essential sphere , can emerge as a powerful instrument of 
public policy , including that of planned development, while at the same time 
maintaining the highest standards of commercial banking . 


42 . Machinery for Industrial Anance. The institutional machinery for the 
provision of industrial finance and for facilitating industrial growth , both in 
the public and private sectors, briefly described in last year s Report, is becoming 
Increasingly effective . 


Part II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 16 , 1966 


1569 


43. The Industrial Finance Corporation of India sanctioned loans aggregating 
Rs. 13 4 crores to 41 industrial concerns during the year ended March 31, 1956 , 
as against Rs. 7 . 1 crores sanctioned to 23 concerns in the preceding year . State 
Financial Corporations were established under the State Financial Corporations 
Act, 1951, in two more States ( Andhra and Orissa ), raising their number to 13. 
Loans outstanding As at the end of March 1956 of the State Financial Corpora 
tions amounted to Rs. 2 . 76 crores. At the second conference of the representatives 
of the State Financial Corporations, which was convened by the Reserve Bank 
in November 1955 , various practical problems were discussed with a view to 
increasing the usefulness of the Corporations and co - ordinating their activities 
with those of other lenders to small - scale industry such as the State Bank and 
other banks, commercial and co -operative , besides the Government themselves, 
Central and State, through their Bureaux and Departments of Industries. 
Effective co - ordination , it was felt, would not only help to pool resources and 
enlarge the volume of lending but also , from the point of the borrowing unit, 
eliminate the need to resort to a succession of credit institutions, short- term 
and long - term , for obtaining different kinds of loans. There was agreement at 
the conference that a few pilot schemes should be tried out in selected centres 
with a view to evolving a workable plan of co -ordination . It may be added 
that, on the initiative of the State Bank of India , which had been separately 
examining the question , such pilot projects have in fact been started since then . 
The centres selected are: Bombay , Surat and Kolhapur ; Madras , Coimbatore and 
Vijayawada ; Delhi, Agra and Ludhiana . 


44 . The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd ., a privately 
sponsored institution which was established in January 1955 for assisting indus 
tries in the private sector , gave considerable attention during the year to 
underwriting capital issues . As at the end of 1955 , out of its total assets 
amounting to Rs. 12 77 crores, Rs. 66 lakhs was in preference and ordinary shares 
of industrial concerns and another Rs. 10 lakhs in secured loans to industrial 
concerns against mortgages. This Corporation also may be expected to render 
increasing assistance to the private sector of Industry hereafter , 


45 . The National Industrial Development Corporation Private Ltd ., was 
engaged during the year in conducting detailed investigations into various 
projects . Under the Second Plan , a provision of Rs. 55 crores . is made for the 
activities of the Corporation ; a part of this ( tentatively placed at Rs. 22 - 20 
crores ) is to be utilised for assisting the modernisation of the cotton and Jute 
textile industries , and the rest would be available for pioneering new basic and 
heavy industries . 

46 . The National Small Industries Corporation Private Ltd ., which was set 
up for the purpose of financing and promoting small industries, commenced 
working in September 1955 and has introduced a scheme of hire purchase for 
machinery and equipment needed by smull industries. 


47 . It may be mentioned here that, in pursuance of one of the recommenda 
tions of the informal conference on rural finance convened by the Reserve Bank 
in February 1951, the Reserve Bank of India Act was amended in May 1953 , to 
provide finance for such cottage and small - scale industries as are approved by 
the Bank s Central Board of Directors. The handloom weaving Industry has 
been approved by the Board as one eligible for financial accommodation from 
the Bank under this provision , and finance is proposed to be made available 
through State co - operative banks, at a concessional rate of 11 per cent. below 
the Bank Rate . 

48 . Travancore - Cochin Banking Inquiry Commission , - To study the special 
problems of banks in Travancore- Cochin State , in pursuance of the recommenda 
tions of the Bank Award Commission , the Government of India appointed the 
Travancore - Cochin Banking Inquiry Commission ; the Commission has recently 
submitted its Report to Government. 

49. Reserve Bank and co - operative credit . - In the sphere of agricultural 
finance , the Reserve Bank s efforts continue to be directed to the rehabilitation 
and revitalisation of the machinery of co - operative credit. Reference was made 
in the last Report to the publication of the General Report of the Committee of 
Direction of the All - India Rural Credit Survey, which constituted an important 
landmark in this connection . The integrated scheme of rural credit recommended 
by the Committee , together with its special feature of State partnership , has not 
only found ready acceptance but is in process of speedy implementation . The 
formation of the State Bank , already referred to , was only one of the many 
steps taken . Mention was made in last year s Report of the provisions embodied 


1570 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[PART II — SEC . 8 


in the Reserve Bank of India (Amendment) Act, 1955 for the setting up of the 
National Agricultural Credit ( Long- term Operations ) Fund , and the National 
Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund . The Reserve Bank constituted the 
former Fund on February 3 , 1956 , with an initial sum of Rs. 10 crores , and the 
latter Fund on June 30 , 1956 , with a contribution of Rs . 1 crore The Bank s 
first annual contribution of Rs. 5 crores has also been made to the former Fund . 

50 . In so far as co - operative agricultural credit is concerned , the targets of 
the Plan are as follows as at the end of the second period of five years in terms 
of outstanding loans : Rs. 150 crores, short -term ( as against Rs. 30 crores existing ) ; 
Rs. 50 crores, medium - term ( as against Rs, 10 crores existing ) ; and Rs. 25 crores, 
long - term (as against less than Rs. 3 crores existing ) . The number of large 
şized primary societies to be established during the Plan period is 10 ,400 . It is 
further intended that 350 warehouses should be set up by the Central and State 
Warehousing Corporations. The number of primary marketing societies to be 
established is 1,800 , and the godowns to be constructed by them 1,500 . The 
projected outlay, under the Second Plan on co - operative development is about 
Rs. 47 crores , in addition , a sum of about Rs, 25 crores required for State partner 
ship in co -operative credit organizations at all levels is to be advanced by the 
Reserve Bank to State Governments from the National Agricultural Credit 
( Long - term Operations ) Fund . The terms and conditions on which such adyances 
are to be made from this Fund to State Governments were settled by the Bank 
in the light of the recommendations made at the Afth meeting of the Standing 
Advisory Committee on Agricultural Credit . That was in February 1956 ; and 
during the few remaining months of the year under review , three States (Madras , 
Orissa and Andhra ) were sanctioned loans amounting to Rs. 31:02 lakhs for the 
purpose . 

51. As indicated above, the outstanding total of all types of co -operative 
credit is planned to be raised from a total of about Rs. 43 crores to one of Rs. 225 
crores by 1980 . Much of this expansion , it is hoped , will be effected by the 
co - operative system through an enlargement of its own deposits and other 
resources . But there is little doubt that the principal contribution will have 
to continue to come from the Reserve Bank itself. This contribution will be 
partly in the shape of loans to State Governments to enlarge the share capital 
of co -operative banks and societies. Moreover, on the strength of the increased 
share capital as well as of other relevant factors , such as greater efficiency 
through the employment of trained personnel , the State Co -operative banks and 
Central Co - operative banks will, it is expected , render themselves eligible for 
much larger loans from the Reserve Bank . 

52. Legislation for warehousing and co -operative development. - - Important 
among the ancillary recommendations calculated to strengthen the structure of 
rural credit , while at the same time subserving other objectives , are those 
which have since been embodied in the Agricultural Produce ( Development and 
Warehousing ) Corporations Act , 1956 , a measure which has only recently been 
placed on the Statute Book . The Reserve Bank of India collaborated with the 
Ministry of Food and Agriculture at various stages in the preparation of this 
piece of legislation . Provision has been made for the grant of loans and advances 
by the Reserve Bank to the Warehousing Corporations established under the 
Act, through the inclusion of a new Clause ( 4 C ) in Section 17 of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act, The loans and advances are of two types . 


" ( a ) repayable on demand or on the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding 

ninety days , from the date of such loan or advance , against securities 

of the Central Government or of any State Government, or 
( b ) repayable on the expiry of fixed periods not exceeding eighteen months 

from the date of such loan or advance , against securities of the 
Central Government or of any State Government, of any maturity , 
or against bonds and debentures issued by the Corporation to which 
the loan or advance is made, and guaranteed by the Central or a 
State Government, and maturing within a period not exceeding 

eighteen months from the date of such loan or advance : 
Provided that the amount of loans and advances granted under clause ( b ) 
shall not at any time exceed , in the aggregate , three crores of rupees in the case 
of the Central Warehouşing Corporation and fifty lakhs of rupees in the case 
of a State Warehousing Corporation " , 

53. Conference on problems concerning apex co -operative Institutions. - An 
important recommendation of the Standing Advisory Committee on Agricultural 
Credit was to the effect that , in the context of the re - organisation of States, the 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


1571 


Agricultural Credit Department of the Reserve Bank should study in advance 
the problems that would be set to the co -operative institutions, such as apex 
banks, of the States concerned , and help to solve the technical, financial, adminis 
trative and other problems of re - organisation which in due course would confront 
these institutions. The relevant aspects were accordingly studied in detail by 
the Agricultural Credit Department and an informal confcrence of the representa 
tives of the appropriate Governments and institutions was convened in May 1956 . 
The Conference formulated a series of principles of re - organisation on an agreed 
basis and set up four ad -hoc committees for different regions in order to work 
out detailed schemes of rero . ganisation , including division and amalgamation , 
for the State co -operative banks, central land mortgage banks etc , of the areas 
affected . The Committees are actively pursuing this work on the lines chalked 
out at the Conference . 

54 . Financial accommodation to Co -operative banks. During the year there 
was an increase in the scale of assistance provided by the Reserve Bank to State 
co - operative banks for financing seasonal agricultural operations and marketing 
of crops, at the concessional rate of two per cent. below the Bank Rate. Thus , 
19 State co -operative banks were sanctioned limits aggregating Rs. 29 84 crores 
in 1955 - 56 , as compared with Rs. 21 21 crores sanctioned to 15 banks in 1954 - 56 . 
Some of the State co -opcrative banks such as those in Bihar, Coorg , and Madhya 
Bharat were granted credit limits for the first time, while certain others were 
sanctioned higher limits than in the past . Liberalisation of the criteria for 
fixing credit limits recommended by the Standing Advisory Committee also 
resulted in sanctioning higher credit limits to some banks, although its full 
impact on the volume of advances from the Bank will become evident only 
hereafter . The outstandings of Reserve Bank credit to State co - operative banks 
at the end of the year stood at Rs. 12 .98 crores as against Rs. 8 . 11 crores at the 
end of last year. 


55 . It will be recalled that the Reserve Bank of India was enabled to provide 
medium -term accommodation to State Co - operative banks for agricultural pur 
poses under a new Sub -section (4A ) added to Section 17 of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act in 1953 . According to this Sub -section medium term loans could 
be provided upto an aggregate maximum limit of Rs. 5 crores. This 
restriction has since been removed by a further amendment in 1955 which 
provides for the grant of medium - term loans out of the National Agricultural 
Credit ( Long - term Operations ) Fund . In all, 10 State Co - operative banks were 
sanctioned medium - term loans amounting to Rs. 1 40 crores during the period 
under review ; nine of these banks were sanctioned medium - term credit limits 
for the first time. The fifth meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee held 
in January 1956 recommended that, of the total of the medium - term loans 
sanctioned by the Reserve Bank of India , not more than one quarter might be 
for a period of five years , while the balance could be for three years. The 
Reserve Bank has accepted this recommendation and has given effect to it in the 
case of mcdium - term credit limits fixed for the Andhra , Madras and Madhya 
Pradesh State Co - operative Banks. 

56 . Inspection of co -operative banks. The system of inspection of co - operative 
banks by the Agricultural Credit Department of the Bank on a voluntary basis 
was continued during the year under review ; 44 co -operative banks were inspected 
during 1955 - 56 , of which 34 were central banks and 10 were apex banks. With 
the exception of the Madhya Bharat State Co - operative Bank , the first round of 
inspection of all apex banks which have been sanctioned credit limits by the 
Reserve Bank was completed during the current year, 

57. Co -operative training and education . Considerable progress was achieved 
in implementing the programme for co - operative training drawn up by the 
Central Committee for Co - operative Tiaining constituted jointly by the Reserve 
Bank of India and the Government of India . The training of higher co - operative 
officials of State Governments and of Co - operative institutions was continued at 
the Co -operative Training College, Poona . About 40 senior officers are trained 
therc, every six months. For the inte : mediate personnel, the full complement of 
5 centres has been reached with the commencement of two more centres during 
the year, one at Indore for the Central Zone and the other at Meerut for the 
Northern Zone, the other three centres being Poona, Madras and Ranchi. 
These five centres train about 225 Co -operative officers of the intermediate level 
every year . The schemes relating to the training of senior officers and 
intermediate personnel are financed by the Reserve Bank . Eight training centres 
were organised for training the co -operative officers required for the National 
Extension Service Blocks. This was done in pursuance of a decision reached 
at the second meeting of the Central Committee . All the eight centres are now 
in session . The cost is met by the Government of India . The scheme for training 
the subordinate personnel of the Co -operative Departments and co -operative 


1572 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 16 , 1956 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


Institutions in the various States, to which a reference was made in the previous 
Report, was put into effect in 18 States ; the cost of this scheme is shared by the 
Government of India and the State Governments on the recommendation of the 
Central Committee. 

58 . In order to meet the needs of the various States for certain specialised 
types of trained personnel in the context of programmes included in the Second 
Five Year Plan , the Committee felt that short- term courses in subjects like land 
mortgage banking, co - operative marketing , industrial co - operation , and ware 
housing should be organised . Accordingly , ad - hoc courses on co - operative 
marketing were organised at two of the Regional Training Centres, viz ., Poona 
and Meerut, as an experimental measure. A special course in land mortgage 
banking commenced at the Madras Regional Training Centre on June 1, 1956 . 


SUPERVISION OF COMMERCIAL BANKS 
59 . Besides the various steps taken to extend banking facilities, the Reserve 
Bank continued its efforts in the direction of strengthening the banking system 
through the enforcement of the provisions of the Banking Companies Act, 1949 
and in other ways calculated to impart stability to the system . 


60 . Licensing of banks. During the year under review , eleven banks were 
granted licences to carry on banking business in India under Section 22 of the 
Banking Companies Act, thus bringing the total number of banks which hold 
licences to 47. Several of these banks have been able to qualify for & licence 
on account of the improvement in their working as a result of the supervision 
exercised by the Reserve Bank through inspections, etc . There are , in addition , 
the State Bank of India and three other State - associated banks to which the 
provisions of Section 22 are not applicable . The deposits of the 47 banks which 
have been licensed so far and of the four banks referred to above which do not 
require a licence , account for over 90 per cent. of the total deposits of all scheduled 
and non - scheduled banks in India . As at the end of the year, the total number 
of functioning banks whose applications for a licence were pending with the 
Reserve Bank stood at 429 , the deposits of which , as already indicated , represented 
only about 10 per cent. of the total deposits of all banks. Of these, as many as 
402 are submitting periodical progress reports to the Reserve Bank and the delay 
in granting or refusing licences to these banks has been principally due to the 
Reserve Bank s desire to safeguard the interests of the depositors and to give 
as many banks as possible a fair chance to qualify for a licence . 


61. Ingpection . In July , 1949 the Bank decided upon a policy of systematic 
periodical inspection of banking companies , and regular inspections were com 
menced in March , 1950 . The purpose of inspections is to assist in raising the 
gtandard of working of individual banks, to remove the defects in the manage 
ment and generally to tone up the banking system . The first round of inspections 
of practically all the reporting banks has been completed and the periodical 
re - inspection of banks has also been taken up . All banking companies whose 
books and records were available for inspection , numbering 455 , have been 
inspected at least once ; of these , 298 banks (68 scheduled and 230 non - scheduled ) 
have been inspected more than once . During the year, 30 scheduled banks and 
165 non - scheduled banks were inspected , Of these , 16 banks were Inspected for 
the first time for ascertaining their eligibility for a licence to carry on banking 
business and 175 banks were re - inspected . Besides , the inspection of three State 
owned / controlled banks (not coming within the purview of the Banking Com 
panies Act ) was carried out with a view to deciding their future set - up . 


62 . The inspection of banks has enabled the Reserve Bank to draw the attention 
of banks, particularly those which have not yet been granted a licence , to the 
Irregularities and defects observed in their working. Periodical progress reports 
are obtained from banks whose inspections reveal undesirable features. Where 
the inspections indicate the need for stricter control over the affairs of the banks 
concerned , suitable conditions are imposed , such as appointment of Banking 
Advisers, restriction on unsecured advances , gradual reduction in the level of 
advances , etc . Although in some cases progress has been relatively slow , the 
banks have generally taken effective and expeditious steps to rectify the defects 
in their operations . They have come to realise that the inspections help to 
promote their own stability and the interests of their depositors and have, there 
fore, offered an increasing measure of co - operation 


63 . Exemptions. With a view to mitigating the difficulties experienced by 
banks, several exemptions from statutory obligations continued to be granted 
either generally to all banks or to groups of banks or to individual banks. These 


PART II - SEC , 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


1573 


exemptions related inter alia to provisions governing minimum capital require 
ments (Section 11 ) and maintenance of a certain percentage of liquid assets 
( Section 24 ) . 

64. Remittance facilities . As a first step towards implementing the recom 
mendation of the Shroff Committee , it was proposed to our agent banks, viz ., the 
State Bank of India , the Hyderabad State Bank and the Bank of Mysore Ltd ., 
that facilities for free transfer of funds under Regulation 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Scheduled Banks Regulations should be provided twice a week 
instead of once a week and that similar facilities should also be made available 
to State co - operative banks. The three banks agreed to the proposal, and pending 
an amendment of Regulation 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) , all scheduled banks were advised that it 
was open to them to avail themselves of the facilities under that regulation twice 
a week instead of once a week with effect from the 1st November , 1953 . In the 
Ineantime the Central Government were requested to give their sanction to amend 
the regulation in terms of Section 58 of the Reserve Bank of India Act. After 
the receipt of Government s sanction , the Central Board of the Bank , at their 
meeting held on the 19th December , 1955 , amended the regulation accordingly . 
Four non - scheduled banks were included during the year in the approved list for 
the purposes of remittance facilities, while one non - scheduled bank was excluded . 

65 . During the period under review , 23 banks - 9 in Travancore - Cochin , 6 in 
Bombay , 2 in U . P . and one each in Punjab ( I ) , Saurashtra , Hyderabad , Madras, 
Mysore and West Bengal - -went into liquidation . Of these , 10 were ordered to 
be wound up by the Courts and the rest were wound up voluntarily . 

68 . During the year under review , two banks applied for inclusion in the 
Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act ; these applications, as also 
four earlier ones , are under consideration . No bank was excluded from the 
Second Schedule during the year , nor was any bank inspected during the year 
specifcally for determining its eligibility to be retained in the Schedule . 34 new 
offices were opened during the year at places which were not formerly served 
by commercial banks, raising the total number of offices of scheduled banks in 
the Indian Union to 2 , 909 as at the end of the year . 

67. Reference was made in last year s Report to the inauguration of the Bankers 
Training College in September , 1954 to impart training in practical banking to 
the supervisory staff of commercial banks in the country . The College since its 
inception has completed nine courses of training , each of eight weeks duration , 
and has so far trained 210 bank officials drawn from different parts of the country . 
Encouraged by the response which the College has evoked from banks, the 
Advisory Council of the College has recommended that the College should be 
placed on a permanent basis ; the matter is under the consideration of the Bank , 


ACCOUNTS AND OTHER MATTERS 


68. Annual accounts . During the year under review , the Bank s income, after 
making statutory and other appropriations, amounted to Rs. 25 . 45 crores and 
expenditure , which includes the expenses of administration and provision for 
sundry liabilities and contingencies , to Rs, 5 . 45 crores. The net profit available 
for payment to the Central Government in terms of Section 47 of the Reserye 
Bank of India Act was Rs, 20 - 00 crores - - the same as in the preceding year . 

69. Out of the Bank s income this year , a sum of Rs. 15 crores was transferred 
to the National Agricultural Credit ( Long - term Operations ) Fund and Rs. 1 crore 
to the National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund in terms of Sections 46A 
and 46B of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 ( II of 1934 ) . It was possible 
to make these contributions and also maintain the surplus profit payable to 
Government at the same figure as last year due to a substantial increase in 
earnings under the head " Discount" . The increase is accounted for partly by 
the higher rate of discount earned on Sterling Treasury bills and partly by the 
discount earned on ad hoc Treasury bills created during the year for replenishing 
Central Government s cash balances with the Reserve Bank 

70 . Expenditure also rose during the year by Rs. 43 . 48 lakhs, mainly under 
" Establishment and Agency Charges . The increase under Establishment 
( Rs. 15 - 91 lakhs ) was due, among other things, to the expansion of the Agricultural 
Credit Department and the Department of Banking Development in connection 
with the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Direction 
of the All - India Rural Credit Survey . The increase in expenditure under Agency 
Charges ( Rs. 16 .59 lakhs ) was mainly due to payment of higher commission to 
the State Bank of India on account of increased Government turnover at its 
branches especially at the new branches opened after June 30 , 1951, in respect 
of which commission is payable at the enhanced rate of 1 / 16 of 1 per cent. It 
is also partly due to enlarged transactions under the Remittance Facilites Scheme. 


1574 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[ PART II SEC . 3 


71. Auditors.- - The Accounts of the Bank have been audited by Messrs . S . B . 
Billimoria and Co. of Bombay, Messrs. P . K . Ghosh and Co . of Calcutta and 
Messrs. Sastri and Shah of Madras, who were appointed by the Government of 
India as auditors of the Bank by Notification No. 1 . 3 ( 40 ) - F1/ 55, dated October 8 , 
1955 , issued in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 50 of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act . 

72 . Compensation to shareholders. -- -Ag at the end of June 1966 , the total 
number of shares of the Reserve Bank of India tendered for payment of com 
pensation , consequent on the nationalisation of the Bank on January 1 , 1949 , 
was 4 ,87, 458 of which 935 shares were tendered during the year under review . 
The total compensation paid upto the end of June 1956 in the form of the 3 per 
cent. First Development Loan , 1970 - 75 amounted to Rs. 5 . 41 crores and in the 
form of cash to Rs. 35 - 35 lakhs. 

73 . Composition of Central Board . Shri B . Venkatapplah , whose appointment 
as Deputy Governor was notified by the Union Government on June 10 , 1985 
assumed charge as the third Deputy Governor of the Bank on July 1 , 1955 . 

74 . Shri Ram Nath , whose term of office as Deputy Governor was due to 
expire on July 8 , 1956 , has been reappointed by the Union Government as Deputy 
Governor for a further period of three years, with effect from July 9, 1956 . 

75 . Saryashri J. R . D . Tata and B . D . V . Ramasawmy Naidu retired as Directors 
of the Central Board of the Bank on January 14 , 1956 consequent on the expiry 
of their term of office . The vacancies were filled by the Union Government by 
the renomination of Shri J . R . D . Tata and the nomination of Shri Bikkani 
Venkataratnam as Directors in terms of Section 8 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act. 

76. The Union Government nominated Shri H , M . Patel, I. C .S ., to be a Director 
of the Central Board under Section 8 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Act in place of Shri D , L . 
Mazumdar , I. C .S ., with effect from July 1, 1955 . 

77. Local Board . The Central Board regret to record the death of Shri J. K . 
Mitter and Shri Peary Mukherjee , Members of the Eastern Area Local Board . 
on September 16 , 1955 and April 13 , 1956 , respectively . In December 1955 , the 
Central Board nominated Shri D . N . Mittra to be a Member of the Eastern Area 
Local Board in place of the late Shri J. K . Mitter . 

78. Meetings of the Central Board and its Committee. - - Seven meetings of the 
Central Board were held during the year , of which four were in Bombay and 
one each in Madras , Calcutta and New Delhi. The Committee of the Central 
Board held Alty - one meetings, of which two were in Calcutta , one in Madras 
and the rest in Bombay . 

79 . Opening and closing of offices or branches of the Reserve Bank of India . 
During the year , a sub -office of the Issue Department, Bombay, was opened at 
Hyderabad (Deccan ) on March 5 , 1956 . The Note Cancellation Section at Allah 
abad was closed from November 1 , 1955 . 

80 . Bank s premises . The construction of residential quarters at Nagpur to 
accommodate 120 families of the supervising and clerical staff of the Bank was 
commenced during the year and is expected to be completed towards the close 
of 1957 . The Bank s new office buildings at Delhi and Nagpur, it is expected , 
will be completed shortly . 

By Order of the 
Central Board of Directors , 

B . RAMA RAU , 
Governor . 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 


Balance Sheet as al June 30 , 1956 


PART 
II 
- 
SEC 
. 
3 
] 


E DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


a . p . 


Rs. 


a. p . 


Rs. 


4. p . 


Notes held in the 

Banking Depart 
ment . 


28 ,26 ,57 ,173 


8 


0 


Notes in 

tion . 


circula 
. . 


40 ,01, 70 ,843 95 

N7 
646 ,55 ,03,760 10 7 


1474 ,67, 17, 347 8 


0 


Rs. 2 . p . 

A Gold Coin and 

Bullion : 
( a ) Held in India 
id ) Held outside 

India 
Forcign Securities 

Total of A . 
· 1502,93 ,74 ,521 001 B . Rupee Coin , 

Government of 
India Rupee 
Securities . . 
Internal Bills of 
Exchange and 
other Commerciai 
paper . . . 


686 ,56 ,74,604 40 
107,68 ,61,60.4 6 4 


THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
, 
SEPTEMBER 
15 
, 
1966 


Total Notes Issued ! 


708 ,68 , 38 ,312 5 


8 


NI . 


Total Liabilities Rs. 


1502 ,93,74,521 OO 


Total Assets Rs. 


1502 ,93, 74 ,521 00 


Ratio of Total of A to Liabilities : 45 . 682 per cent, 


A 


1975 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


1376 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. 


. 


Capital paid -up , 
Reserye Fund 
National Agricultural Credit ( Long -term Opera 

tions) Fund 
National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund 


Rs. 
28,26 ,57, 173 8 0 
6 , 15,518 00 
4 , 46 ,209 05 
2 ,00 , 000 OO 

Nil 
8 , 33 ,52 ,586 10 S 


Deposits : 

(a ) Government 

( I ) Central Government 

( 2 ) Other Governments 
(b ) Banks . 

(c ) Others . 
Bills Payable . . 
Other Liabilities . 


5 , 00 ,00 ,000 O O | Notes 

Notes : . . . . . 
5 ,00 ,00 , 000 oo Rupee Coin . 

Subsidiary Coin 
15 ,00 , 00 ,000 0 0 Bils Purchased and Discounted : - 
1, 00 , 00 , 000 0 0 ( a ) Internal 

(6 ) External 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances held abroad * . 

Loans and Advances to Governments . 
56 , 82 , 18 ,433 11 II Other Loans and Advances 
13 , 17 , 17 ,768 10 2 Investments 
54 , 9 , 18 ,899 15 9 Other Assets 
13 ,07, 80 , 926 15 5 

5 ,31,81,083 I 9 
23 ,80 ,75,671 05 


38, 52 , 13 , 234 II 3 

2 , 36 , 75 , 000 0 0 
69,6841,629 2 II 
37 ,32 ,62 ,725 14 0 
8 ,06,28,706 8 5 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,SEPTEMBER15,1956 


Total Liabilities Rs. . 


192,68 ,92,783 


7 


5 


Total Assets Rs. 


192 ,68 ,92 , 783 7 


5 


* Includes Cash and Short- term Securities. 


B . RAMA RAU , 


Governor 


C . S . DIVERAR , 


Chief Accoun 
Dated July 16 , 1956. 


K . G , AMBEGAORAR , 

Deputy Governor . 
RAM NATH , 

Deputy Governor . 
B . VENRATAPPIAH , 

Deputy Governor. 


[PARTII—Sec.8 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 


PROFIT AND Loss ACCOUNT 


PARTII--SEC.3] 


FOR THE YEAR ENDED 


June , 30 , 1956 


June 30, 1955 


June , 30 , 1954 


- 


Rs . 


ap . 1 


Ra. 


a . p . 


1 


Rs . 


a . 


P . 


INCOME 
Interest, Discount, Exchange, Commission , etc . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


25 ,44 ,50 ,866 66 


25,01,05,550 56 


21,93,92 ,840 4 


7 


EXPENDITURE 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA,SEPTEMBER16,1956 


Namoo 


Establishment 
Directors and Local Board Members fees and expenses 
Auditors fees 
Rent, Taxes, Insurance, Lighting etc. 
Law charges 
Postage and Telegraph charges . . 
Remittance of Treasure 
Stationery etc . . 
Security Printing - (Cheque Note Forms, etc. ) 
Depreciation and Repairs to Bank property . 
Agency charges : 
Contributions to staff and Superannuation funds . 
Miscellaneous expenses 

Net available balance 


2 , 98 , 18 ,723 13 9 

69 ,461 6 

22 ,5000 
14 ,06 , 127 2 

67 , 553 9 
2 , 18 ,853 3 
19,45, 007 8 

5 , 98 , 961 9 
1 , 10 , 33 , 945 0 

15 , 64 ,874 13 
62,41,250 2 

45, 000 00 
14 , 10 ,688 14 5 
20 ,00 ,07,919 4 7 


coomOOONNOOO 


2 ,82 ,28 , 344 14 

79 ,912 3 

22, 500 0 
13 -30 ,550 7 

77,059 2 
1 , 95 , 800 5 
15 ,30 ,897 13 

6 , 15 ,481 5 
1 ,06 , 68 ,117 56 

15, 30 ,400 0 
46, 81,695 13 

55,000 0 0 
10 , 78 ,816 13 9 
20 ,00 , 10 ,974 O 8 


OowaAwOVOOO 


2 ,48 ,76 ,647 5 5 

60 ,271 14 0 

22 ,500 O 
11 ,26, 954 9 

77 ,987 
1 ,88 ,450 3 
13 , 99 , 728 12 

5,78 , 775 14 3 
90 ,58 , 879 14 
13 ,67,557 7 
45 , 37 , 574 7 3 

52 ,000 00 

9, 99, 507 5 9 
17,50,45,805 4 7 


avowonwunoooou 


. 


TOTAL Rs. 


. 


25,44,50 ,866 66 


25,01,05,550 56 


21,93 ,92, 640 4 


7 


1 


i7 


PROFTT AND Loss AccOUNT- contd . 

FOR THE YEAR ENDED ) 


1578 


June 30, 1956 


June 30, 1955 


Rs. 


Rs. 
20 , 00 , 07,919 

N2. 


2 . p . 
4 7 


a . p . 
0 8 


June 30, 1954 

Rs. 2 . p . 
17 ,50 ,45 ,805 4 7 

Ni . 


Surplus payable to the Central Government 

Balance carried forward 

TOTAL Rs. 


20 , 00 , 10 , 974 

NU . 


20 ,00,07,919 4 


7 


20 ,00 , 10 ,974 


O 


8 


17,50 ,45 , 805 4 


7 


RESERYE FUND ACCOUNT 


Rs. 


8 . 
0 


P . 

0 


By balance on June 30 , 1956 . 
By transfer from Profit and Loss Account 


, 


5 ,00 ,00 ,000 

Nil . 


TOTAL Rs. 


5 ,00,00 ,000 Oo 


THE 
GAZETTEOFINDIA, 
SEPTEMBER15, 
1958 


GS. DIVEKAR , 

B, RAMA RAU , 
Chef Accountant. 

Governor 
K . G . AMBEGAOKAR , 

Deputy Governor 
RAH NATH , 

Deputy Governor 
Dated Fuly 16 , 1956 . 

B . VENKATAPPIAH , 

Deputy Governor . 
REPORT OF THE AUDITORS 
TO THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA , 

We, the undersigned Auditors of the Reserve Bank of India , do hereby report to the Central Government upon the Balance Sheet and Accounts of 
the Bank as at June , 30 , 1956 . 

We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the Accounts, Certificates and Vouchers relating thereto of the Central Office and of the Offices at 
Calcutta , Bombay and Madras and with the Returns submitted and certified by the Managers of the other Offices and Branches which Returns are incorpora 
tod in the above Balance Sheet, and report that where we have called for explanations and information from the Central Board such information and es 
planations have been given api have been satisfactory . In our opinion, the Balaace Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing the particulars prescribed 
by and in which the assets have been valued in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the Regulations framed thereunder and is properly 
drarn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Bank s affairs according to the best of ou information and the explanations given to us, 
And as shown by the Books of the Bank , 

S . B . BILLIMORIA & CO ., 7 
P . K , GHOSH & CO . 

Auditors. 
Daued July 16 , 19 1 . 

SASTRI & SHAĦ . 


[ 
PARTII---SEC.3 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15, 1956 


1579 . 


(Department of Company Law Administration ) 

CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1958 


S .R . O . 2082 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of sub - section 
( 2 ) of Section 9 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 , the Central Govera 
ment is pleased to nominate Shri A . H . JUST of Messrs . PRICE WATERHOUSE 
PEAT & COMPANY, CALCUTTA , to the Council of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of India vice Shri A . M . S . FERGIE resigned . 


[No. 3 ( 38 ) - Corp /58. ] 
C . P . GUPTA , Dy. Secy .. 


( Department of Company Law Administration ) 
THE COMPANIES REGULATIONS, 1956 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 


S .RO . 2083 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) , 
( 3 ) , ( 5 ) and ( 8 ) of section 25 and sub -section ( 2 ) of section 609 of the Com 
panies Act , 1958 ( I of 1968) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing amendments in the " Companies Regulations, 1956 " namely : - - 


In Annexure III to the said Regulations 
for the existing clause (4 ) the following shall be substituted , namely : 


" ( 4 ) that this licence shall be liable to be revoked in the event of viola 

tion of any of the aforesaid conditions or any of the conditions and 
provisions contained in the Memorandum of Association of the said 
company in accordance with the provisions of section 25 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 ." 


[No. 12 /20 / 56 -PR .] 


F . N . SANYAL, Under Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , DELHI 

ADDENDUM AND CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 30th August 1956 


S . R . O . 2084. -- At the end of para 3 of this Collectorate Notification issued 
under Rule 50 of Central Excise Rules , 1944 , please add the following para : 


4 . The factory removing such intermediate non - excisable goods to another 
factory should produce proof of material having reached the destination . 


In line 3 of the 1st of non -excisable goods intermediate and Residual Products 
of excisable commodities attached with the notification referred to above, plase 
read " without" for the word " with " , 


[ No. C. IV ( 18 ) 9 /8670347 -48.] 


B . B . BARMAN , 

Collector , 


1580 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[ PART II — - SEC . 3 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

DANGEROUS DRUGS 


New Delhi, the 5th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2085 . - - In pursuance of clause ( a ) of rule 2 of the Central Opium Rules , 
1934, the Central Government hereby defines the tracts specified in the Schedule 
annexed hereto as tracts in the States of Uttar Pradesh , Madhya Bharat and 
Rajasthan , within which poppy may be cultivated on account of Government, 
during the Opium Year commencing on the 1st October, 1958, and ending on the 
30th September, 1937: 


SCHEDULE 


PART I 


State of Uttar Pradesh 


Extent 


Designation of Tract 


District 


Tehsil /Pargana 


Paizabad Opium Divi - Faizabad 

Basti 
Ghazipur 


sion , 


Mangalsi, Khandasa , Rath , Ansin and Haveli. 
Amorha, 
Experimental farm attached to the Government 

opium and Alkaloid Works, Ghazipur, 


Barabanki Opium Divi- Barabanki 

sion 


Daryabad , Baddu Sarai , Nawabganj, Ramnagar , 
Dewa, Kursi, Partabganj, Satrik , Siddhaur, 

Subeha and Haidergarh , 
Botanical Gardens , Lucknow . 


Lucknow 


Barcilly Oplum Divi- Barcilly 

slon , 


Saneha , Ballja , Aonla, Sirauli and Faridpur, 


Shahjahanpur Opium 

Division , 


Shahjahanpur 


Jalalabad , Kant, Nigohi, Tijhar and Jalalpur . 


Part II 
State of Madhya Bharat 


Extent 


Designation of Tract 


District 


Tehsil /Pargana 


Mandsaur 


Neemuch and Jawad . 


Neemuch I Opium 

Division. 
Neemuch II Opium 

Division , 
Mandsuar I Opium 

Division , 


Mandsaur 


Garoth , Bhanpura and Manase . 


Mandsaur 


Mandsaur , 


Mandsaur II Opium 

Division , 


Mandsaur 


Malhargarh and Sitamau . 


Ratlam Opium Divi 

sion , 


Ratlarn 


Ratlam , Jaora, Alot and Sailana. 
Agar and Susner . 


Shajapur 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 18 , 1956 


1581 


PART III 
State of Rajasthan 


Tytan 


Designation of Tract 


District 


Tehsil / Pargana 


Chittorgarh 

Division , 


Opium 


Chittorgarh 


Bhilwara 


Jhalawar 


Jhalawar Opium 

Division 
Kotah Opium 

sion , 


Achaera , Partabgarh , Chhoti Sadri, Kanera , 
Nimbahera , Begun , Chittorgarh , Bari Sadri, 
Bhadesar and Doongala . 
Bijola . 

Khanpur, Aklera , Manohar Thana, Bakani , 
Asnawar , Patan , Bhawani Mandi, Dag . 
and Gangadhar , 
Ramganj Mandi, Sangr, Chechat -Moodak 

Chipa Barod , Chhabra and Atru . 


Divi 


Kotah 


[No. 2.) 
W . SALDANHA , Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE ( Department of Revenue ) 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2086 . - In pursuance of clause (6 ) of sub - rule ( ii) of rule 2 of the 
Appellate Tribunal Rules , 1946 , the Central Government has been pleased to 
appoint Shri S . S . Kapoor , Income-tax Officer , as Authorised Representative from 
the 22nd August 1956 to appear, plead and act for any Income-tax authority who 
is a party to any proceedings before the Income- tax Appellate Tribunal. 

( No. 104.] 


INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 10th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2087 . The following draft of certain further amendments in the Indian 
Income -tax (Provident Funds Relief ) Rules , which the Central Government 
proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 
58L of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (11 of 1922) , is published as required 
by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section read with sub - section ( 4 ) of section 59 of 
the said Act for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or 
after the 31st October 1956 . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In rule 3 of the said Rules 
( a ) In sub - rules ( 1) and ( 2 ) , for the words, brackets and figures " clause 

( 2 ) of section 2 of the Indian Companies Act , 1913 , the words, 
brackets and figures " clause (i ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of 

the Companies Act, 1956 " shall be substituted ; 
( b ) In sub -rule ( 2 ) , for the words, brackets, figures and letter " sub - section 

( 2 ) of section 282 - B of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 " , the words, 
brackets and figures " sub - section ( 1 ) of section 418 of the Companies 
Act, 1956" shall be substituted . 

[No. 63 .) 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Dy . Secy . 


1582 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[PART II SEC . 3 


CUSTOMS 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 


S . R . O . 2088 . The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( VIII of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , is published , as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said 
section , for the information of persons Ukely to be affected thereby ; and notice 
is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration after 8th 
October , 1958 . Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any 
person with respect to the said draft before the said date will be considered by 
the Central Government. 


DRAFT RULES 


1 . Short Atle . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
(Hydraulic Brake Fluid ) Rules, 1938 . 


2. Definitions. — In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires , 


( a ) the Act means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 (VIII of 1878 ) ; 


(b ) goods means hydraulic brake fluid , which is manufactured in India 

or the State of Pondicherry by a registered manufacturer , and in the 
manufacture of which no volatile solvent, other than imported duty 
paid diacetone alcohol, has been used ; 


( c ) Imported material means diacetone alcohol imported into India or the 

State of Pondicherry by a registered manufacturer on payment of 
customs duty ; 


( d ) quarter means a period of three months beginning with the frst day 

of January , the first day of April, the first day of July or the Arst day 
of October ; and 


( e ) registered manufacturer means a manufacturer , in India or the State 

of Pondicherry , of goods defined in sub - rule (b ) , registered under 
Tule 4 . 


3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be allowed . Subject to the pro 
"Visions of the Act and these rules, a drawback shall be allowed in respect of the 
imported material used by a registered manufacturer in the manufacture of goods 
exported out of India or the State of Pondicherry . 


4 . Registration of manufacturers. ( 1 ) A drawback under these rules shall 
apply only to such goods as have been manufactured by a person who has been 
registered under, and for the purposes of, these rules by a Chief Customs Officer 
authorised in this behalf by the Chief Customs Authority and hereinafter referred 
to as the authorised Chief Customs Officer. 


( 2 ) An application for registration shall be made by a manufacturer of the 
goods to the authorised Chief Customs Officer furnishing particulars of quantity 
and proportion of the imported material used in every one hundred quarts of the 
goods manufactured by him and such other particulars as the Customs Collector 
may require for the purpose of these rules . 


(3 ) The manufacturer shall give an undertaking in the application for registra 
tion that no volatile solvent, other than imported duty -paid diacetone alcohol, will 
be used in the manufaeture of the goods. 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1966 1583 
= = = = = = = 

= = = = = = = 
( 4 ) The authorised Chief Customs Officer may , if he is satisfled that the pro 
visions of these rules have been complied with , register the applicant as a manu 
facturer under , and for the purposes of, these rules . 

( 5 ) Subsequent to such registration , a registered manufacturer shall not vary 
the composition , that is , the unit or units , or the quantity of the imported materiał 
used in the manufacture of the goods in respect of which he is registered , except 
with the prior approval of the authorised Chief Customs Oficer, 

(6 ) Any variation of the composition in contravention of the foregoing sub 
rule shall render the registration of the manufacturer liable to cancellation without 
prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be subject under the Act . 


5 . Rate of drawback .- - ( 1 ) Where the Customs Collector is satisfied that a claim 
for drawback is established under these rules , such drawback shall be paid at the 
rate indicated hereunder , 


( 2 ) The rate of drawback of duty admissible under these rules on the shipment 
of the goods in the prescribed manner shall be seven -eighths of the average duty 
paid on the imported material used in the manufacture of the goods. 


( 3 ) Such rate of drawback shall be determined by the authorised Chiet Customs 
Officer during every quarter on the basis of statements furnished by the registered 
manufacturer , and duly verified by a Customs Collector , of the value of the 
imported material, imported by the registered manufacturer during the preceding 
six months or such longer period as the Customs Collector may deem necessary , 
the quantity of the imported material actually used in the manufacture of the 
goods, and the customs duty paid thereon . 

(4 ) Such rate of drawback shall be in force only for the quarter in which it 
has been determined and shall apply to all shipments of the goods made during that 
quarter from any port in India of the State of Pondicherry . 

8 . Manner of allowing drawback ( 1 ) A drawback shall be allowed on the 
Shipment of the goods subject to the following conditions, namely : 
(a ) the registered manufacturer of the goods shall make a declaration on 

the relative shipping bill 
(i) that a claim for the drawback under section 43B is being made , and 
( ii ) that the unit or units , or the quantity of the imported material used in 

the manufacture of the goods have not been altered subsequent to 
the registration of the manufacturer except under , and in accordance 

with , the provision of sub - rule ( 5 ) of rulei 4 ; 
( b ) the registered manufacturer shall , in the shipping bill , furnish , in addition 

to the particulars required under section 29 of the Sea Customs Act 1878 
( VIII of 1878 ) such additional particulars as may , in the opinion of the 
Customs Collector , be necessary for the purposes of these rules , and in 
particular, the Customs Collector may require such additional informa 

tion in respect of the following matters, namely : 
( i) the description of the goods , 
( ii ) the name of the registered manufacturer , his registration number and 

the name of the Chief Customs Officer by whom he has been registered , 
(ii) particulars of any brand or trade mark attached to the goods, 
( iv ) specification , if any, of the imported material, and 
( v ) the quantity of the goods contained in each container tendered for 

export ; and 
( c ) representative samples will be drawn by a Customs Officer from each lot of 

goods tendered for export under claim for drawback , for verifying by 

chemical test or otherwise , the composition of the goods . 
( 2 ) No drawback shall be allowed on the imported material used in the manu 
facture of the goods in respect of which the composition has been altered contrary 
to the undertakings furnished as required under sub - rules ( 3 ) and ( 5 ) of rule 4 . 

7. Powers of Customs Collector . For the purpose of enforcing these rules, the 
Chief Customs Officer or the Customs Collector may 
( a ) require a registered manufacturer to produce any books of account or 

other documents of whatever nature relating to the use of the 
imported material in the manufacture of the goods; and 


1584 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 


[PART II SEC. 3 


(b ) require the production of such certificate , documents or other evidence 

in respect of each claim for the drawback as may be necessary. 
8 . Access to manufactory . - A registered manufacturer of the goods in respect 
of which a drawback is claimed shall give access to every part of his manufactory 
to an officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this behalt by the 
authorised Chief Customs Officer to enable him to inspect the processes of manu 
facture and to verify by actual check or otherwise the statements made in support 
of the claim for drawback . 

[No. 70 ,1 
[No. F .34 / 24 / 55 -Cuc. IV . ) 
W . SALDANHA , Dy . Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISES 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2089. - - In pursuance of rules 49 and 139 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 . 
as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that the following amendments shall be made in the notifica 
tion of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division ) No . CER 
139 ( 2 ) & 49 ( 1 ) / 56, dated the 9th July , 1956 , namely : 
In the said notification 
(i) in item (a ), after the words " Sewree or Wadala " , the words " Wadi 

Bunder or Hay Bunder " shall be inserted ; 
( li ) In item ( c ), the following shall be added at the end , namely :-- 
" or of Messrs. Caltex (India ) Ltd ., or of Messrs. Indo -Burma Petroleum 
Company Limited." 

[No. CER - 139 (3 ) and 49 (2 ) /56.) 
S . K , BHATTACHARJEE, Dy. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 3rd September 1956 
S .R . O . 2000 . The following draft of certain rules which the Central Board 
of Revenue proposes to frame under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 59 of the Indian 
Income- tax Act ( 11 of 1922 ) , for the purposes of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 37 
the said Act is hereby published as required by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 59 
of that Act , for the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and 
notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consideration on or after 
the 31st October 1956 . 

2 . Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person in 
respect of the draft before the date so specified will be considered by the Central 
Board of Revenue. 

DRAFT RULES 
1 . These rules may be called the Income- tax (Search of Premises and Seizure 
of Documents ) Rules, 1956 . 

2 . The Commissioner of Income- tax may, for reasons recorded , issue a written 
order under his own signature and bearing his seal, specially authorizing any 
Income- tax Oficer, subordinate to him , to enter any building or place , to be 
specified therein , where he has reason to believe that books of accounts or other 
documents which , in his opinion , will be relevant to or useful for any proceed 
Ings , under the Income- tax Act, 1922, may be found . Such order may authorise 
the Income- tax Officer to do all or any of the following acts , namely : 
( a ) to enter the said building or place with such assistance of police 

officers as may be required ; 
(b ) to inspect and search the same and to place identification marks on 

such books of account or other documents found therein as, in his 
opinion , will be relevant to or useful for any proceedings under the 
Act and to make a list of such books or documents with particulars 
of the identification marks thereon , 


PAIT II - - S . C , 3 ] THE GALNITE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 15 , 1956 1585 

- - - 
( c ) to examine such books or documents and to make cupies of or extracts 

frumu such bUoks or documents ; 
( d ) to take possession of or seize any such books or documents; 
( e ) to make a note or an inventory of any other article or thing found 

in the course of such search which , in hu opinion , will be useful 

for or relevant to any proceedings under the Acl ; 
( 1 ) to convey such books or documents to the office of the Income- tax 

Officer or any other authority not below the rank of an Income- tax 

Other Enpluyeu in lie execution of the Act. 
3 . Whenever any place authorized to be searched or inspected is closed , any 
person residing in or being in charge of such place shall, on demand by the 
Income tax Ctlicer and on production of the authority , allow him free ingress 
thereto and word all redulidwie lacnilies for a search or inspection therein . 

4 . Where any person in yr about such place is reasonably suspected of con 
ceuing apuut nis perzun iy urucle for which search is being made, such person 
Winy 4180 bo searched by the Income-tax Ouicer with such assistance Ag he may 
consider necessary . I sucht Buiwuil is a woman , lue search Shall be made by 
anumer woman with Sulcl rcguru to decency . 

5 . Before making a s - arch or inspection , the Income - tax Officer about to 
make it shall call uputi Wu or more respectable innapitants of the locality in 
wnich tie piace O be eai chied is situate cu altend and winess the search and 
may issue an order 11 write tu them or any of them so to do . 

6 . The search shall be made in the presence of the witnesses aforesaid and 
a list of all ungs se .zca lliue course of sucn search and 01 the places in which 
they were l espectively lounu okkaill be pi epared by the incomnt - LUX Officer and 
signed by suen witnesses ; bun 10 persun witnessing a searcn shall be required to 
uitend as a witness of the searcn in any proceedings under the Act uniess specially 
surmoned . 

7 . The occupant of the place searched or some person in his benall shall be 
permitted to allend during the scarch and a cupy of the list prepared under 
rule 6 shall be delivered to sucn occupant or person at his request. A copy shall 
also be forwarded to the Commissioner . 

8 . When any person is scarched under rule 4 , a list of all things taken posses 
sion of shall be prepared and copy thereof shall be delivered to such person , at 
his request. A copy shall also be forwarded to the Commissioner , 


The order of the Commissioner referred to in Rule 2 shall be in the following 
form : 

Warrant of Authorization under section 37 ( 2 ) and Rule 2 Indian Income-tax 
Act, 192 % ( 11 of 1922 ) . 


To 

( The Income- tax Officer ) 

Whereas inforination has been laid before me and on the consideration there 
of I have been led to believe that certain books of account and / or documents 
which are or may be relevant to or useful for proceedings under the above Act 
in the case (name oj the Www Sue win 6 .1. R . No. ) have been kept and 
are to be found at ( specify particulars of the building or place 
This is to authorise and require you . 

(Name of the Income-tax Oncer ) . 


( a ) to enter and search with such assistance of police officers as may be 
required , the said premises ; 

( b ) to place identification marks on such books and documents as may be 
found in the course of the scarch and as you may consider relevant to or useful 
for the procecdines aforesaid and to make a list thereof together with particulars 
of the identification marks; 

( c ) to examine such books and / or documents and make copies or extracts 
from such books and documents ; 


1586 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMRER 15 , 1958 


[PART II- SEC , S 


( d ) to seize such books of account sind / or documents , and take possession 
thereof ; and 

( e ) to exercise all other powers and duties under the sald section and the 
rules relating thereto . 


Seal 


" Commissioner of Income- tax " . 

(No . 61.) 
P . N . DAS GUPTA , Secy . 


INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1956 
OR . O . 2091. - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian 
Income tax Act , 1922 ( 11 of 1922 ) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs 
that the following amendments shall be made to its notification S . R . O . 1884 . 
( No . 57 - Income- tax , dated the 20th August 1956 ], namely : 

In the schedule appended to the said notification under the sub -head " XII . 
Uttar Pradesh and Vindhya Pradesh " under ; 

( a ) Meerut Range , after entry " 5. Saharanpur" the following entry shall 

be added : - 
“ 6 . Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circie, Meerut" . 
(b ) Lucknow Range after entry " 4 , Special Survey Circle, Lucknow " the 

following entry shall be added : 
" 6 . Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Lucknow " . 
( c ) Varanasi Range , after entry “ 4 . Gonda " , the following entry shall be 

added : 
“ 5 . Estate Duty cum Income-tax Circle, Varanasi " . 
( d ) Kanpur Range I, after entry " 2 . Jhansi" , the following entry shall be 

added :-- 
“ 9 . Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle , Kanpur" . 

(No. 82. ] 
[No. 7 .50 / 75 / 56 -IT .) 
B . V . MUNDKUR , Under Secy . 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1956 
S . R . O . 2092. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the last paragraph of 
tion 78 of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , the Central Board of Revenue 

eby makes the following further amendment in its Notification No. 108 . 
Customs, dated the 9th September , 1950, namely : - - 
In the said notification after the item “ ( 8 ) Mandyl” , the following item . 

shall be added , namely : 
" (9 ) Mundra ." 

(No. 52/ 10 / 89- L . C . II.37 
S . K . BHATTACHARJEE , Secy , 


ISTILLA , LV 


PRINTID IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 
NEW DELHI AND PUBLISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1966 

N .8 . 


