No . D . , , 


PENAL 


The Cazette 


of India 


lois8 


= - 
No 35 ) 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
= -- 

= - = 

- - - - - - - - - - - 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1958 /AŞVINA 19 , 1880 


- - - -- -- - 


- -- - - - 


- 


= 


= 


NOTICE 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published upto the 2915 
Sepse anber 1958 : 


1* 9ue No. and date 
No. 


Issued by 


Subject 


Do 


144 G . S . R . 856 , dated 271h Ministry of linuncc ( L eptt. Exempurn of goods speci 
September , 1958 . of Revenue ): 

fied therein from certain 

duty of customs. 
345 G . S .R . 857 , Jated 28th 

Fixation of ratcs of duty 
Sepenber . 1958 . 

on tea . 
G . S .R . 858 , dated 28th 

Amendment in the Central 
September, 1958 , 

Excise Rules , 1944 . 
* . S . R . 859 , dated 28th 

Amendment in the Minis 
September , 1958. 

try of Finance (Rev . Div . ) 
Notification No. 10 – Cen 
tral Excise , dated sth 

April , 1949 
G . S . R . 860 , dated 28th 

· Amendmcnt in the Minis 
September , 1958 . 

try of Finance Revenue 
Division ) Noriticalion 
No. 45 – Central Excise , 
dated 1st November , 1954 . 


G . S . R . 861, dated 

September , 1958 . 


281h 


G . S . R . 862, dated 

September, 1958 . 


28 . 11 


Amendment in the Central 

Excise Rules , 1944 . 
Rescinding the Notification 

of the Ministry of Fi 
nance , G . S . R . No. 435 , 
dated 1st June , 1958 . 


28th 


G . S . R . 863, dated 

September , 1958 . 


· Fixation of rate of duty 

of customs Icviablc on 
tea , 


G . S . R . 864, daled 

September , 1958 . 


28th 


Exemption of lea from duty 

of customs leviable un 

der Indian Tariff Act , 
· 1934 

- - 


- 


( 847 ) 


848 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


Part It 


I suc 
No. 


No . and date 


Issued by 


Subject 


- . 


. 


- 


. 


146 G . S .R . 865, dated 29th Ministry of Finance (Deptt. Grant of recognition to 
Semenbut , 1958, of Economic Alary ) 

the Hyderabad Stock 
Exchange Lid ., in res 
pect of contracts in 
Securities subject to con 
ditions specificd therein , 


G . S . R . 866 , dated 29th 

Do. 

Declaration that Soc . 13 
September , 1958 , 

of the Securities Con 
tracis Act, 1956 skall 
Apply to the li mity of 
Municipal Corp orations. 
of Hyderabad and Se 

cunderabad . 
G .S.R . 867 , dated 29th 

Appointment of date on 
September , 1958 . 

which Sec . Ty of the : - 
Securities Contracts Act , 
1956 shall come into force 
in the limits of Municipal 
Corporations of Hyder 

abad and Secunderabad , 
G .S .R . 868 , dated 29th 

Do . 

Speciication of date on 
Septeniber , 1958 . 

which the Hyderabad Se 
curities Contracts Regu 
lation Act, 1353 Fasli , 

shall stand repcaled . 
— — 

- - - - --- - - -- -- - - 
Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes . 


PART L - Section 3 – Sub -section (1) 
General Statutory Rules (including orders, bye - laws etc . of a general 

character ) issued by the Ministries of the Government of India (other 
than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Central Authorities ( other than 
the Administrations of Union Territories ) . 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAJRS 

New Delhi, the 29th September 1958 
G . S . R . 902 .- In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 3 of the Indian Adminis 
trative Service ( Cadro ) Rules , 1954 the Central Government, in consultation 
with the Government of Jammu and Kashmir , hereby constitutes for the State 
of Jammu and Kashmir an Indian Administrative Service Cadre with effect from 
the 4th September , 1958. 

[No. 5 / 25 / 58 -AIS ( IL .) 


New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 
G . S . R . 903 . - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 9 of the Indian Police 
Service ( Recruitment) Rules , 1954 , the Central Government, in consultation with 
the Government of Kerala and the Union Public Service Commission , hereby 
makes the following amendment in the Indian Police Service ( Appointment by 
Promotion ) Regulations, 1965 . 


Szc 3i)] | THE GAZE STE OF INDIA , OCTOKER JI, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1840 849 
- - _ * - . - ... -- - - - - - - -- - -- - - - :.. - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

· Amendment 
in the Schedule to the said Regulations, for the entries in column 3 against 
" Kerala " in column 2 , the following shall be substituted , namely : 

* ( 1 ) Chief Secretary to the Government of Kerala . 
(2 ) Secretary to the Government of Kerala in the Home Department. 
( 3 ) Inspector General of Police ." 

[No. 13 /35 / 58 - AIS ( III) . ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 
G . S .R . 904 . In the Ministry of Home Affairs Notification No. 1 / 4 / 55 
AIS ( III ) , dated the 18th August, 1958 , regarding the All India Services (Death 
cum -Retirement Benets ) Rules , 1958, published at pages 337 to 360 of sub 
section ( i ) of Section 3 of Part II of the Gazette of India , Extraordinary dated 
the 20th August, 1958 , the following corrections shall be made, namely : 
1. p . 337 in clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule la 
( i ) insert of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 3 after ( b ) and ( c ) occurring in the 

beginning of the second line of sub -clauso ( 1) ; 
( ii ) insert of sub - rule ( 1 ) after clause ( a ) occurring in the fourth line 

of sub - clause ( 1 ) ; 
( iii ) insert or were appointed to the Service after State Services occur 

ring in the beginning of the second line of sub - clause ( ili ) , 
2 . p . 345 in sub - rute ( 2 ) of rule 19 — 
(i) insert of Cause (a ) after items (i ), ( ii ) and (ii ) occurring in 

clause ( i ) ; 
(ii ) insert of clause ( a ) after items (iv ) , ( v ) and ( vi) occurring in 

clausc ( ii ) . 
3. p . 348 in rule 22m 
(i) for Schedule A occurring in the fourth line of sub - rule ( 7 ) , read 

" Schedule H " ; 
( ii ) for person occurring in the first line of clause ( a ) of sub - rule (8 ) , 

read pension . 
4 . p . 349 in clause ( iv ) of the Note under sub - rule ( 4 ) of rule 23 , for clauses 
( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) occurring in the first line, read clauses ( i ) , ( ii ) and ( iii ) . 

5. p . 351 in clause ( v ) of rule 24, for communication occurring in the sixth 
line, read " commutation " . 

6 . p . 353 in Schedule A , delete the words gratuity or occurring in the head 
ing common to columns 3 and 4 . 

7 . p . 355 in the Note in item ( h ) of Schedule C , for the word substi - 
occurring at the end of the first line, read " add the" . 

8 . p . 356 in Schedule E , delete the asterisk against the word payable in 
column 4 . 

9. p . 358 in Schedule G , for admissile occurring in the fourth line, read 
" admissible " . 

10 . p . 359 in Schedule H , for wheather occurring in column 4, read 
whether " , 

11. p . 360 in Schedule J , for superanuation occurring in the beginning of 
item ( iji ) in column 1 , read " superannuation " . 


[ No. 1 / 4 /55 - AIS ( III ) ] 


S . P . MUKERJEE , Under Secy . 


850 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


(PAKT UI 


New Delhi, the 6th October 1958 ) 
G . S . R . 905. — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Indian 
Passport Act, 1920 ( 34 of 1920 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing the recruitment to the Indian Defence Accounts Service , namely : 

In sub - rule ( 1) of rule 4 of the said Rules, after clause (b ), the following 
clauses shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( c ) persons domiciled in India , proceeding from any Portuguese Establish 

ment in India ; 
( d ) persons domiciled in any Portuguese Establishment in India , other 

than persons in the service of the Government of any such Establish 
ment or a member of the family of any such person , proceeding from 
any such Establishment; " . 

[No. 4 / 1 /58 - F . 1.] 
FATEH SINGH, Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE (DEFENCE ) 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 
G , S . R . 906 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 
309 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulat 
ing the recruitment to the Indian Defence Accounts Service , pamely . 


PART I 


General 


1. Then Rules may be called the Indian Defence Accounts Service (Recruit 
ment) Rules , 
2 . For the purpose of thesc Rules 

( a ) " Government" means the Government of India ; 
( b ) " The Commission " incans the Union Public Service Commission . 
( c ) " The Service " means the Indian Defence Accounts Service , 
( d ) The various grades of posts included in the Service , the pay scales 

attached to them , thelr classification and the special conditions of 
Service attarhing to them shall be as indicated in Appendix I of these 

Rules . 
( e ) " Scheduled Castes" mean castes, communities , races , sects ctc . notified 

as such by the President of India , 
( f ) " Scheduled Tribes" mean castes , communities , races , sects etc. notified 

as such by the President of India . 


3. The Service shall be recruited by the following methods : --- 


( i) By competitive examinations held in India in accordance with Part II of 
these Rules . 

( ii ) By promotion in accodrance with Part III of these Rules. 

4 . 75 per cent of the vacancies in the Service will be Alled by competitive 
examination vide Part II of the Rules and 25 per cent. will be reserved for pro 
motion vide Part III of the Rules . 

5 . Subject to the provisions of Rules 3 and 4 , Government shall determine in 
consultation with the Commission the method or methods to be employed for the 
purpose of filling any particular vacancies , or such vacancies as may require to 
be filled during any particular period and the number of candidates to be recruit 
ed by each method . 

6 . Appointments to the Service made otherwise than by promotion will be 
subject to the orders issued from time to time by the Ministry of Home Affairs 
regarding special representation in the Services for specific sections of the people . 


Sac. $ (i)} | THE GAZET" 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER II , 1958/ASVIŅA 19, 1829 


851 


PART II 
7 . A competitive examination for admission to the Service shall be held in 
India at such times and places as Government may prescribe by notice issued 
in consultation with the Commission Every such notice will announce the 
precise number of vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination and 
whenever it is not found practicable , indicate the approximate number of vacan 
cies. 

8 . It the examination held under this part of these Rules is a combined 
examination for the purpose of making appointments to more than one Service 
or Department, the following provisions shall apply : 
(i ) Any person may apply to be admitted as a candidate for appointment 

to All or any of these Service or Departments for which he is eligi 
ble . If he wishes to compete for appointment to more than one 
Service or Department, he shall state in his application form which 
Services or Departments he wishes to compete for , and the order of 
his preference between them , and in such case only one applica 
tion form will be necessary and one payment of the fees referred 

to in rule 18 ( and Appendix IX ) will be sufficient, 
( ii ) Government will assign successful candidates to cach Service or 

Depurlment on a consideration of all circumstances , including any 

personal preference expressed by the candidate . 
9 . The maximum number of candidates to be admitted to any examination 
may , at the discretion of the Commission , be limited to such number but not 
less than 200 , as the Commission may decide. If a linit is imposed and the 
number of candidates exceeds that limit, the Commission shall select from the 
applicants those who shall be admitted to the examination , and in doing 
so shall have regard to the suitablity of the applicants and to the adequate 
representation of thc Scheduled Castes and Tribes and of the States of India . 

10 . (i ) A candidate must apply to be admitted to the examination before 
such date in such manner and in such form as the Commission may prescribe . 

( ii ) If a candidate is in permanent or temporary service of the Government 
of India or a State Government, he shall apply to the Commission for admission 
to the examination through the Head or the Department, who shall forward the 
application with appropriate l ecommendation , unless the application is with 
held for adequate reasons, in which case the applicant shall be informed of 
such reasons. 

( iii) If a candidate is not in Government service he shall apply to the Com 
mission direct. 

(iv ) No candidate may makr more than one application in respect of any 
onc occasion on which an cxamination is held . 

* NOTE , — The submission of an application by persons in Government service 
de further - . - - + Government Servants Application for posts ( Centrai 
Services / ": 

I ) Rules publishert with the Government of India ., 
Home Deportmoni Notification No. F . 189 / 43 / E - ts dated the fih December , 1943 . 

Railway Department ( Railway Bd .) No. E . 34 - R , R . I, dated the 22nd Janua 
ry, 1945 . as annended from time to time, and the corresponding rules made by 
the State Governments . 
11. A candidate must be either : 

( i) a Citizen of India ; or 
( ii ) a Subject of Sikkim ; or 
( iil) a person who has migrated from areas which now form Pakistan , 

with the intention of permanently settling down in India ; or 
(iv ) a gubect of Nepal or of a Portuguese or a former French Possession 

in India . 
NOTE . - 1 . The appointment of a candidate falling in category ( iii ) or ( iv ) 
above will be subject to the issue of a certificate of cligibility in his favour by the 
Government of India . Certificates of eligibility will not however be necessary 
in the case of candidates belonging to any of the following categories. 
( a ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan before 19th July 1948 

and have ordinarily been resident in India since then , 


852 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA I OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART I 


- 


(b ) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan after 18th July 1948 but 

before 30th September 1948 and got themselves registered as citizens 

within the time allowed , 
( c ) Non -citizens who cntered service under the Government of India 

before the commencement of the Constitution , vis - 26th January , 1950 , 
and who have continued in such service since then . Any such per 
sons who re - entered , or may re - enter such service with a break ,, 
after the 26th January, 1950 , will however require certificates of 

eligibility in the usual way , 
NOTE . — 2. A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary 
may be admitted to the examination and he may also be provisionally appointed 
subject to the necessary certificate being eventually issued in his favour by 
Government. 

12 , No candidate who has more than one wife living shall be eligible for 
appointment to this Service unless the Government of India , after being satisfied 
that there are special grounds for doing so , exempt any candidate from the 
operation of this rule . 

13 . A candidate must have attained the age of 21 and must not have attained 
the age of 24 on the date prescribed for this purpose in the notice issued by the 
Commission under rule 7 . 

Provided that a candidate who is over the age of 24 and under the age of 27 
on that date may be admitted to the examination if he holds substantively a 
permanent post under the Central / State Government, or has been in continuous 
service for a period of not less than two years on the prescribed date in the 
Defence Accounts Department, if he is recommended by the Controller General 
of Defence Accounts, where he is not so recommended , reason for with - holding 
an application should be communicated to the candidate . No Government ser 
vant will be admitted to the examination if he has already appeared at two 
previous examinations under the age concession applicable to such candidates , 

NOTE . — ( 1 ) The upper age limit will be relaxable upto a maximum of five 
years iſ a candidate belongs to a scheduled caste or a scheduled tribe . 

( 2 ) Candidates who are bona fide displaced persons from Pakistan will be 
allowed the age concessions, if any , which Government may sanction from time 
to time (ride Appendix V ) . Save as provided above , the age limits prescrib 
ed can in no case be relaxed . 

14 . A candidate must satisfv the Commission that his character is such as to 
make him suitable for appointment to the Service , 

15 . A candidate must be a gruduate of one of the Universities enumeraled in 
Appendix II, 


Provided that in exceptional cases the Commission may, on the recommenda 
tion of the Central Government or a State Government, treat as a qualified candi 
date , a candidatc , who though he has not all or any of the qualifications prescribed 
in this rute , has passed examinations conducted by other institutions of a standard 
which in the opinion of the Commission justifies his admission to the examina 
tion , 


NOTE. - Candidates who are otherwise qualifed but who have taken degrees 
from foreign universities which are not included in Appendix II, may apply direct 
to the Commission and may be admitted to the examination at the discretion of 
the Commission . 

16 . No candidate shall be admitted to the examination unless he holds 
certificate of admission from the Commission . 

The decision of the Commission as to the cligibility or otherwise of a candidate 
for admission to the examination shall be final. 

17 . No recommendations except those invited in the form of application shall 
be taken into consideration . Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by other meang may disqualify him for admission . 

18 . Candidates must pay such examination fees as Government may prescribe 
( see Appendix IV ) . No claim for a refund of any of these fees will ordinarily 
be entertained , nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination . 


Sec . 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 . 853 


19 . Examinations under these Rules shall be conducted by the Commission in 
the manner prescribed in the regulations which form Appendix III to these 
Rules . 


20 . ( i ) After every examination the Commission shall make a list of the can 
didates in order of their merit as disclosed by the aggregate marks finally award 
ed to each candidate and in that order so many candidates upto the number of 
vacancies announced under rule 7 above, as are found by the Commission to be 
qualified by the cxamination and are considered by the Government to the 
appointing authority as the case may be to be suitable in all other respects , shall 
be appointed 

( ii ) For the purposes of rule 6 of these Rules , appointment to vacancies to be 
alled by specific section of the people shall be made by Government or the appoin 
ting authority , as the case may be, in the order of merit of the candidates belong 
ing to the particular section or sections provided they have qualified in the exami 
nation and are in all respects suitable for employment in the Service . 


21. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health , and free from any 
physical defect likely to interfere with the discharge of his duties as an officer of 
the Service . A candidate who ( after such physical examination as Government 
or the appointing authority , as the case may be, may prescribe ) is found not to 
patisfy these requirements will not be appointed . Only candidates who are like 
ly to be considered for appointment will be physically cxamined . As acceptance 
of an appointment in the Indian Defence Accounts Service carries with it a def 
nite liability for service in any part of India , as well as for field service in or 
out of India . the report of the medical board should indicate s fitness or other 
wise for field service . 


* In order to prevent disappointment, candidates are advise to have themselves 
examined by a Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil Surgeou , 
before applying for admission to the examination . Particulars of the nature of 
the physical test 10 which candidates will be submitted before appointment and of 
the standards required can be had from the Commission , 

22 . Appointments shall be made on probation for a period of 2 years , provided 
that this period may be extended to three yeary if the officer on probation has 
ijot qualified for confirmation by passing the prescribed departmental examina 
tion . Repeated failure to pass the departmental examination within a period of 
3 years from the date of appointment on probation will involve loss of appoint 
ment. 


NOTE . - ( a ) A candidate who is already in permanent Government service and 
is selected for appointment in the Indian Defence Accounts Service on the 
results of the Competitive examination held by the Union Public Service Com 
mission , will also be appointed as a probationer and the instructions for the 
training of probationers and rules for their Departmental Examinations will apply 
equally in his case . 


( b ) On the conclusion of his period of probation Government may contrm 
the officer in his appointment from the date of joining the service . If, however , 
during or at the end of the probationary period his work or conduct has in the 
opinion of Government been unşatisfactory , Government may either discharge 
hím from the service or may extend his period of probation for such further 
period as Government may think fit, provided that before orders of discharge are 
passed , the probationer shall be apprised by the competent authorities of the 
grounds on which it is proposed to discharge him and give an opportunity to 
show cause against it , 


( c ) If no action is taken by Government under sub - rule (b ) of this rule , the 
period after the prescribed period of probation shall be treated as an engagement 
from month to month , terminable on either side on the expiration of one calen 
dar months notice in writing. 


( d ) If the power to make appointments in the Service / Deparment is delcgat 
ed by Government to any officer , that officer may exercise any of the powers of 
Government under this rule . 

23 . Candidates are informed that some knowledge of Hindi prior to entry into 
service would be of advantage in passing departmental examinations which can 
didates have to take after cntry into service . 


854 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ ASVINA 19, 1880 [PAO I 
= = = = = = 

= = T = - -- - - - -- 
PART III 

Recruitment by Promotion 
24 . Recruitment by promotion to the Service shall be made from among the 
members of the Subordinate Gazetted Service , by selection on merit with dort 
regard to seniority on the recommendation of a Departmental, Promotion Con 
mittee presided over by the Chairman or a Member of the Union Public Service 
Commission and composed of : 

( 1 ) The Controller General of Defence Accounts. 
( 2 ) Command Controllers . 
Any other Controller whose presence is considered necessary by the Can 

troller General of Defence Accounts may attend to assist in the 

deliberations of the Committee . 
Ordinarily those who have attained the age of 50 years , on the 1st January 

of the years to which the promotion relates, will not be considered 

for promotion . 
Recruitment by promotion to the administrative posts in the Service shall 
likewisc be made by selection on merit on the recommcndation of a duly conslitu 
ed Depatmental Promotion Committee . 

The recommendation of the Promotion Committee will be submitted to Govern - 
ment for approval, and concurrence of the Union Public Service Commission 
will also be übtained where the Union Public Service Commission ( Consultation ) 
Regulations require that the Commission should be consulted before making the 
final selection . 

25 . If the power to make appointments in the Service is delegated by Goy 
ernment to any officer , that officer may exercise any power of Government under 
this part of these rules . 

APPENDIX 1 
Junior Scale : Rs. 350 _ 350 _ 380 - 380 30 — 590 _ E .B . - 30 - 770 — 40 – 850 . 
Senior Scale : - Rs. 600 — 40 — 1,000 - 1 ,000 - - 1 ,050 – 1 ,050 - 1 , 100 - 1 , 100 – 1 ,150 . 
Junior Administrative Grade : - Rs. 1.300 — 60 – 1,600 . 
Command Controllers: - Rs. 1,800 _ - 100 – 2000 . 
Contraller General: of Defence Accounts: Scale of pay not yet fixed . 

NOTE . — Probationary oficers will start on the minimum of the Junior scale and 
will count their scrvice for increment from the date of joining . 

APPENDIX II 
List of Universitics approved by the Government of India . 
Indian Universities , 

Any University incorporated by an Act of the Central or State Legislature 10 
India . " 
University in Burma.- - 

The University of Rangoon , 
English and Welsh Universities. 

The Universities of Birmingham , Bristol, Cambridge, Durham , Leeds, Liver 
pool, Lon !on , Manchester , Oxford , Reading, Sheilleld and Wales. 
Scottish Universities, 

The Universities of Aberdeen , Edinburgh , Glasgow and St. Andrews. 
Irish Universities. 

The University of Dublin ( Trinity College ) . 
The National University of Dublin . 

The Queen s University, Belfast, 
Universities in Palcistan , 

The University of Punjab . 
The Dacca University . 
The University of Sind. 


$ EC. 3(1) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 ) ASVINA 19, 1880 


855 


200 


200 


APPENDIX III 
1. The following will be the subjects for examination : 
Compulsory 

Marks 
1. English Essay 

150 
2 . General English 

150 
3 . General Knowledge 

150 
Optional 
4 . Pure Mathematics 

200 
5 . Applied Mathematics 

200 
6 . Chemistry 
7 . Physics 

200 
8 . Botany 

200 
9 . Zoology 

200 
10 . Geology 

200 
11. English Literature 

200 
12 . Indian History 

200 
13 . British History 

200 
14 . World History 

200 
15 . International Law 

200 
16 . General Economics 
17 . Political Science 
18 . Law 

200 
19 . Philosophy 

200 
20 . Geography 

200 
21 . One of the following : -- 

Latin , French , Sanskrit, Arabic , Spanish , Russian 
Persian , German or Chinese 

200 
22 . Statistics 

200 
23. Advanced Accountancy and Auditing 

200 
24 . Mercantile Law 

200 
25 . Applied Mechanics 

200 
26 . Prime Movers 

200 
NOTE .— Candidates must select three and not more than three subjects from the 
above list. 
2 . Restrictions on the selection of optional subjects: 

( a ) Of the History subjects 12 , 13 and 14 not more than 2 can be offered . 
(b ) of the Law subjects 15 , 18 and 24 not more than two can be offered. 
( c ) Of the Mathematics , subjects 4 , 5 and 22 not more than two can be 

offered . 
3 . The commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all of the 
subjects at the examination . 

4 . The Commission will summon all candidates (or at their discretion only 
those candidates who qualify at the written examination ) for a viva voce test at 
which a maximum of 300 marks will be awarded . 

5 . From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction wil 
be made as the Commission may consider necessary in order ure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 
. 6 . If a candidate s handwriting is not easily legible , a ded , 

ka made 
on this account from the total marks otherwise accruing to hi 

7 . Credit will be given for orderly , effective and exact 
with due economy of words in all subjects of the examinat 


[PART 11 
= - 


= 


. KAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 
KAS S = = = 

= = = = = = = = - - = - = - 

APPENDIX IV 
Candidates must pay the following fees : 


To 


The Union Public Service Commission : - 
A consoliduled application and examination fee of Rs. 82:50 nP , (Rs. 20 -62 np . 
in the rase of candidates beloging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes ) with the application , Only a Treasury Receipt for this amount or cro3y 
ed Indian Postal Order payable to the Secretary , Union Public Service Commis 
sion , will be accepted . The Commission cannot accept the fre in Ash or in 
cheques. 

Noth - The Commission may , at their discretion , remit the prescribed applica 
- tion and examination fee where they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona fide 
displaced person and is not in a position to pay the prescribed fee. 
B . To the Medical Board : 

Rs. 16 / - before examination by a Medical Board in the case of candidates who 
are asked to appear before a Medical Board . 

Candidates are required to pay their medical fee in cash to the Medical Board 
concerned at the time of their medical cxamination , 

No claims for a refund of these fees will ordinarily be entertained , nor can 
they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection . A refund ot 
Rs. 75 / - (Rs. 18 .75 np . in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled Tribes ) will, however , be allowed to a candidate who has paid 
the consolidated fee of Rs. 82: 50 np . Rs. 20 .62 np . in the case of candidates 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes ) but who is not admitted 
to the examination by the Commission . 

APPENDIX V 
Details of concession in age limits to displaced persons from Pakistan 

The upper age limit prescribed in the rules will be relaxable in accordance with 
the general orders of the Government in this behalf, that is to say , upto a niaxi 
mum of three years if the candidate is a bona fed displaced person from Pakistan 
and upto a maximum of 8 years it the candidate belongs to a Scheduled Caste or 
a Scheduled Tribe and is also a displaced person from Pakistan or as is determin 
ed by the Government. 


R . BHAKTAVATSALU , 
Joint Financial Adviser, Defence Services . 


- - - 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


-- 


- 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 


( Department of Revenue) 

CENTRAL EXCISES 


New Delhi, the 4th October 1968 


G . S . R . 907 . - In cxercise of the powers conferred by section 37 of the Central 
Exercise and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ), as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following fur 
ther amendments to the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , namely : 

I. In rule 206 of the said Rules, 
After sub -rule (2), the following sub -rule shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 3 ) Anything seized by a Central Excise Officer , máy . pending the orders of 

the adjudicating Central Excise Officer , be released to the owner on 
taking a bond from him in the proper Form , with such security As 
the Collector may require ." 


IL 


Stc . ( ) THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : : : 11, 
SOS - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
II . In Appendix I, 
( 1 ) in the table under the heading " Forms" afler the entries relating to the 
Central Excise Series No. 32 - D , the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 


Rule 


Short title 


Central Exciso 

Series No. 


Description of 

Form 


No. 


- - - 


- - - 


32 - È 


- - - 


206 


B 


- 11 (Sec.) 


(with security ) for 
obtaining release of 
seized goods pending 
adjudication . 

- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


( 2 ) After Form B - 10 ( Sec .) ( Central Excise Series No. 32 - D ], the following 
form B - 11 ( Sec . ) shall be inserted 
Central Excise Series No. 32 - E . 


Range 

Circle 

Form 9 -11 (Sec .) 
Bond (with security ) to be entered into by person sceking release of goods 
seized pending adjudication . 

(Rule 208 ) 
( Delete the words and letters not applicable ) . 
1/We. . . . . . . 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (hereinafter called the obligor ( s ) ) 
am 

bound to the President of India ( hereinafter 
are jointly and severally 
called the Government ) in the sum of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rupees to be paid to the 

bind 
Government for which payment 

a we jointiy und severally 
myself and my 
ourselves and our legal representatives . 


Whereas a quantity of . . . . . . . . . . . . (hereinafter called the said goods ) belong 
ing to the obligor ( s ) are seized by the Central Excise Ofcer . . . . . . . . . . . . Range / 
Circle /Division ( hereinafter called the said officer ) for an alleged offence under 
the Central Excise Act and Rules, 1944 . 


And whereas the said officer has required the obligor ( s ) to deposit as guarantee 
for the amount of this bond the sum of . . . . . . . . . . rupees in cash / the securities 
hereinafter mentioned of a total face value of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . rupees endorsed in 
favour of the Collector of Central Excise , , , , . . . . , , . . . , namely : 


And whereas pending adjudication of the case by the competent officer , the 
said officer has under sub - rule ( 3 ) of Rule 206 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 
agreed to release to the obligor ( s ) the said goody on the obligor ( s ) executing the 
bond in the manner atoresaid . 


Now the condition of this bond is that ( a ) if the obligor ( s ) and his / their legal 
representatives shall observe all the provisions of the Central Excise Rules , 1844 
So far as they relate to the seized goods; ( b ) if all dyes whether duty , value , 
penalty , or other lawful charges which shall be demandable on the goods released 
to the obligor ( s ), be duly paid into the treasury to the satisfaction of the said 
officer within 10 days of the date of demand thereof being made in writing by the 
gaid officer of Central Excise ; ( c ) if the said goods are produced , unless the same 
have totally perished in the meantime, as and when directed by the said officer , 


This obligation shall be void . 


Otherwise and on breach or failure in the performance of any part of this 
condition , the same shall be in full force . 


. 


II, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


[PART IL 


And 1 /we agree that the Government shall be at liberty to appropriate the 
and deposit towards the payment of the amount of duty / value / penalty / other 
lawful charges as may be assessed by the competent authority in respect of the 
goods, 

And I /we declare that this bond is given under the orders of the Central Gov 
ernment for the performance of an act in which the public are interested . 


Place; 
Date : 

Signature ( s ) of obligor ( s ) . 
Witnesses: 
( 1 ) 
( 2 ) . . . . . . . . . . 
Address : 
( 1 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( 2 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Occupation : 
( 1 ) 
( 2 ) . . . . . . 
Place : 
Date : 
Accepted by me this . . . . . . . . . . day on . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 , tor_ and on behalf of 
the President of India . 

. . . of Central Excise . 

[No. 102 / 58 . ] 


G . S . R , 908 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 12 and 37 of 
the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) , as in force in India and as 
applied to the State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendments in the Central Excise Rules, 1944, namely 
In the said rules , in sub - rule 19 of rule 191 - A , the words in accordance 
with the general export procedure shall be omitted . 

[No. 103 /58. ] 


G . S . R . 909. - In cxercise of the powers conferred by Section 27 of the 
Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I ut 1944 ) , as in force in India and as applied 
to the State of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendincnts in the Central Excise Rules, 1944 , namely 

In Appendix I to the said Rules, in Form A . S. P . ( Central Excise Series 
No. 85 ) 

1. in paragraph !, the word six shall be omitted ; 
2 . for the worels 24707 - ion granted at the foot of the form , the words 

Permission granter for . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . calendar months beginning 
with , . . . . . . . . . . . and ending with . . . . . . . . . . . . . shall be substituted . 

[ No. 104 / 58 . ) 


Neu Delhi, the 11th October 1958 
G . S . R . 910 . - In pursuance of the rule 96J of the Central Excise Rules, 1.944, 
as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry and in supervession 
of the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue ) S . R . O . No. 1309. datrit the 27th April, 1957, the Central Government 
hereby Axes the following rates per shitt pcr warp knitting machine employed 
by or on behalf of the same person in the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk 
fabrics , namely : 

First shift Rs. 54 per warp knitting machine per month . 
Second shift Rs. 36 per warp knitting machine per month . 
Third shift Rs. 20 per warp knitting machine per month , 


Sec . 3(1)] | THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1908 / ASVINA 19, 1880 899 
B - _ = - - - -- - - - - 

Provided that no duty shall be payable on the first 4 warp knitting machints , 
or where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are employed , on power 
looms not exceeding 9 in number or at the option of the person aforesaid , on warp 
knitting machines not exceeding 4 in number : 
Provided further that 
( a ) where in any subsequent shift more warp knitting machines are 

employed than in the first shift, the rate applicable to the machines 
employed in excess of those in the Arst shift shall be Rs. 54 per 

machine; and 
(b ) where in the third shift more warp knitting machines are employed 

than in the second shift , but not more than in the first shift the rate 
applicable to the machines employed in the third shift ghall be Rs. 36 

per machine. 
Explanation . Where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are 
employed, the provisions of the notification of the Government of India , Ministry 
of Finance ( Revenue Division ), No . S . R . O . 502 , dated the 1st March , 1956 , shall 
apply to the powerlooms in respect of which duty is payable . 

[No. 106 / 58 . ) 


G . S . R . 911 . - In pursuance of rule 963 of the Central Excise Rules, 1944 . 
us in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondicherry and in supersession 
of the notification of the Government of India , Ministry of Finance ( Department 
of Revenue ) S . R .O . NO , 3623 . dated the 16th November , 1957 , the Central Government 
hercby fixes the following ratus per shift per powerloom employed by or on 
behull of the same person in the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk fabrics . 
namely :- - 

First shift Rs. 37 per powerloom per month . 
Second shift Rs, 18 per powerloom per month . 

Thirl shirt Rs. 10 per powerloom per month . 
Provided that where more than 9 powerlooms are employed by or on behalf 
nt the same person , no duty shall he payable in respect of first 9 powerlooms. 
Provided further that, 
( A ) where in any subsequent shift more powerlooms are employed than in 

the first shift , the rate applicable to the powerlooms employed in 

excess of those in the first shift shall be Rs. 27 per powerloom ; and 
( b ) where in the third shift more powerlooms are employed than in the 

Second shift, but not more than in the first shitt , the rate applicable 
to the powerlosms employed in the third shift in excess of those 
employed in the second shift shall be Rs. 18 per month , 

[No. 107/ 58. ) 


G . S . R . 91% . In pursuance of rule 96J of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
aud sub - Section ( 3 ) of section 3 of the Adultional Duties of Excise (Goods of 
Sperial Importanre ) Act, 1957 ( 58 of 1957) and in supersession of its notification 
S . R . O . NU, 102 dated the lith January , 1958, the Central Government hereby fixes 
the following rates of additional excise duty per shift per powerloom employed 
by or on behalf of the same person in the manufacture of rayon or artificial silk 
fabrics , namely : 

First shift Rs. 27 per powerloom per month , 
Second shift Rs. 18 per powerloom per month . 
Third shift Rs. 10 per powerloom per month , 


Provider that where more than 9 powerlooms are employed by or on behalt 
of the same person no duly shall be payable in respect of first 9 powerlooms: 
Provided further that. . . 
( a ) where in any subsequent shift more powerlooms are employed than in 

The first whiſt , the rate applicable to the powerlooms employed in 
excess of those in the frst shift shall be Rs. 27 / - per powerloom ; 
and 


" 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER II , 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 PART 11 
- = - = - = = = = = 

= = = = = 
( b ) where in the third shift more powerlooms are employed than in the 

second shift, but not more than in the first shift, the rate applicable 
to the powerloome employed in the third shift in excess of those 
employed in the second shift shall be Rs. 18 / - per month . 

[No. 108/ 58 .] 


G . S . R . 913 , - In pursuance of rule 96 of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 
and sub -section (3 ) of section 3 of the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of 
Special Importance ) Act , 1957 (58 of 1957) and in supersession of its notification 
S . R . O . No . 103, dated the 11th January , 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
fixes the following rates of additional excise duty per shift per warp knitting 
machine einployed by or on behalf of the same person in the manufacture of 
rayon or artificial silk fabrics, namely : - - 

First shift Rs. 54 / - per warp knitting machine per month . 
Second shift Rs. 36 /- per warp knitting machine per month . 

Third shift Rs, 20 / - per warp knitting machine per month , 
Provided that no duty shall be payable on the first 4 warp knitting machines , 
or where powerlooms as well as warp kuitting machines are employed by or on 
behalf of the saine person , on powerlooms not exceeding g in number or at the 
option of the person aforesaid , on warp knitting machines not exceeding 4 in 
number : 
Provided further that - - 
( a ) where in any subsequent shift inore warp knitting machines are 

employed than in the Arst shilt, the rate applicable to the machines 
employed in excess of those in the first shift shall be Rs. 54 / - per 

machine ; and 
( b ) where in the third shift more warp knitting machines are employed 

than in the second shift, but not more than in the first shift, the rate 
applicable to the machines employed in the third shift shall be Rs. 36 / 

per machine, 
Explanati011. — Where powerlooms as well as warp knitting machines are 
employed , the provisions of the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Finani c ( Department of Revenue ) S . R ; 0 , No. 3623 , dated the 16th 
November , 1957, shall apply to the powerlooms in respect of which duty IS 
payable . 

[No. 109 / 58 ,1 


G . S . R , 914 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 96J of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944, and sub -section ( 3 ) of section 3 of the Additional Duties of 
Excise (Grods of Special Importance ) Act, 1957, (58 of 1957 ) and in supersession 
oť the notifcation of the Goveruiment of India , Ministry of Finance (Department 
of Revenue) G . S . R . No. 86 , dated the 1st March , 1958 , read with notification 
G . S . R . No. 206 , dated the 1st April, 1958, the Central Government hereby Axes 
the following ratey of additional excise duty ner shift per powerloom per month 
employed by or on behalf of the same person in the manufacture of cotton 
fabrics , namely : 

Rs. 


1 . where more than 24 but not more than 300 powerlooms are 
employed ; 

20 .00 
2 . where more than 9 but not more than 24 powerlooms are 
employed ; 

16 , 00 
3 . where more than 4 but not more than 9 powerlvoms are 

employed ; 
4 . where not more than 4 powerlooms are employed : 

Nil 
Provided that where more than 4 powerlooms but not more than 9 powertoons 
are employed by or on behalf of the same person , no duty shall be payable in 
respect of the Arst 4 powerloom9. 


$ F¢, 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER II, 1968 / ASVINA , 19 , 1880 


61: 


Provided further that where mure than 9 powerlooms but not more than 24 
powerlooms are employed by or on behalf of the same person , no duty shall be 
payable : 

(a ) in respect of the first 4 powerlooms; 
(b ) as is in excess of Rs. 12 / - per powerloom per shift per month in respect 
of the next 5 pewerlooms. 

[ No . 110 / 58 . 1 
S . K . BHATTACHARJEE , Dy. Sccy . 


(Department of Revenue) 
CUSTOMS AND CENTRAL EXCISE 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1958 
G . S . R . 915 . — The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
mcnt proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt 
Act , 1944 (both as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pandicherry ) 
is published as required by sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section 43B for the informa 
tion of persons likely to be allected thereby, and notice is hereby given that the 
said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November , 1958 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the suid draft before the date specified above will be ronsidered by the 
Central Government, 

DRAFT RULES 
1. Short title. These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties 
Refund (Fixed Rates ) Rules, 1958 . 
2 . Definitions.--- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requircs, 
(a ) " excisable materials" incans materials produced or man factured In 

India or the State of Pondicherry , on which central exci- duty has 

been paid ; 
( b ) " export" includes shipment of the goods as provisions or storcs for use 

on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 
( c ) " grods" means articles specified in the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry, 
and in the manufacture of which imported or excisable materials or 

hoth have been used ; 
( d ) " imported materials " means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry, on payment of customs duty ; 
( e ) “manufacturer " means a manufacturer of the goods; 
(f ) “ refund" includes drawback of customs duty paid on imported materials 

and rebate of central excise duty paid on excisable materials ; 
(g ) " Schedule " means a Schedule appended to these rules. 
3 . Goods in respect of which refund may be paid , — Subject to the provisions of 
the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and of the Central Excises and Şalt Act, 1944 
( 1 of 1944 ) and of these rules , and subjert also to such provisions of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 , as may be applicable in this behalf , a refund at the rate or 
rates referred to in rulc 4 , shall be allowed of the customs cluty paid on the 
jmpcrteil materials , and the central excise duty paid on the excisahle materials , 
used in the manufacture of the goods exported from India or the State of 
Pondicherry. 

4 . Rate of refund , - ( 1 ) Refund admissible under these rules in respect of any 
goor s specified in the second column of the First Schedule shall be at the rate or 
rates specílied against such goods in the corresponding entry in the third column 
of the sald Schedule, 

( 2 ) The Central Government may revise the rate or rates of refund so specifed 
at such intervals as it thinks lit, and for this purpose , may require any manufac 
turer of any variety or brand of the goods to furnish information in such form as 


862 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


(PART JI 


it may prescribe and in particular, In respect of the materials used in the manu 
facture of such brand or variety and the customs or the central excise duty , if any , 
paid thereon , 

5 . Exporter s declarations and documents . - At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall 
( a ) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

under these rules is being made; 
( b ) state on the shipping bill , the description , quantity and such other parti 

culars as are necessary for deciding whether the gouds are entitled to 

drawback , and if so , at what rate or rates; 
( c ) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document glving particulars of the description , quantity 

and value of the goods to be exported , 
6 . Certain conditions for allowing refund . Without prejudicc to the provisions 
regarding drawback or refund contained in the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ), 
in the Central Excises and Salt Act , 1944 11 of 1941), in the Central Excise Rules , 
1944 , and in these rules, no refund shall be allowed under these rules unless 

(i) the goods are included in the export manifest, and 
(il) payment of refund is demanded within six months from the date of entry 

for shipment. 
7 . Powers of Customs Collector - For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon . 

8 . Access to manufactory . Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary , the manufacturer shall give access at 
all rcasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by guch officer or such authority , to every part of the premises in 
which the goods are manufactured , so as to enable the officer so authorised to verify 
by inspection of the processes of , and the materials used for the manufacture of 
such goods, or otherwise , the entitlement of the goods fur drawback , or for a 
particular rate of drawback , under these rules . 

9 . Repeal of rules. The rules specificd in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder . 

THE T IRST SCHEDUIE 


- 


Serial 
No. 


Description of the goods 


Rale of refund 


i 


Fabrics manufactured from artificial silk 

yarn of all varieties other thun staple 
fibre yarn , wholly or in admixlure with 
other yarn , and hosiery and readymade 
garmenis made from such fabrics , 


(i) if made from artificial silk yarn of Two rupees per pound o faritificial silk yarn : 

below 75 denicts 
(it) if made from artificial silk yarn of One rupee and twenty - eight naye pais 

75 deniers and above but not above per pound of artificial silk yara ; 

100 deniera 
(117) if made from artificial silk yarn of Seventy - seven naye paise per pound of 

above 100 deniers but not above 135 artificial silk yarn : 
deniero 


Bec. 9(i) 


863 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 

- - - 


- 


(iv ) if made from artificjal silk yarn of Fifty - two naye paise per pound of arti 

above 135 deniers but not above 175 ficial silk yam : 

deniers 
(v) If made from artificial silk yarn of One rupee and twelve naye paise per pound 
above 175 deniers 

of artificial silk yarn ; 
Provided that in the case of goods ma 

nufactured from yarns of different 
deniers to which different rates of 
refund are applicable , the refund 
in respect of the whole of such goods 
shall be allowed at the lowest of such 

rates. 
2 Crown corka 
12) with composition cork discs 

Six rupees and forty naye paise per one 

hundred gross 
(ii) with natural cork discs . , Twenty - one rupecs and thirty -five naye 

paisc per one hundred gross 
3 Hydraulic brake fluid conforming to One rupee and fifty naye paise per Imperia 

Indian Standard specification I. S . 377 gallon 
( 1951 ) 
( 2 ) Ground coffee 

. . . Twenty -three naye paise per pound 
(11) French coffee , that is to say , coffee Twenty - three naye paise per pound of 

prepared by admixure of ground coffee coffee content and twenty naye paise 
and imported chicory 

per pound of chicory content 
$ Mixed total fatty acids obtained from coco - One hundred and forty -one rupees per tou 

nut oil 
6 Confectionery of the following varieties, 

other than confectionery manufactured 
for export in accordance with the procc 
dure laid down in rule 191 of the Central 
Excise Rules , 1944 
( 1 ) Boiled sweets, unwrapped . . Eleven rupees and fifteen naye paise per 

one hundred pounds 
(2 ) Boiled sweets,wrapped . . . Fifteen rupees per one hundred pounds 
( 3) Boiled sweets , soft -centred . Thirteen rupees and thirty naye paise 

per one hundred pounds 
(4 ) Toffees . . . . . Eighteen rupees per one hundred pounds 
7 Extract ofpyrethrum flowers in kerosene . Eight rupees per Imperial gallon of a 

2 % extract of pyrethrum flowers in 
kerosene 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback ( Art Silk ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Hydraulic Brake Fluid ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Crown Corks) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Coffee) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs and Central Excise Duties Refund (Fatty Acids) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback ( Confectionery ) Rules, 1958 . 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Pyrethrum extract) Rules , 
1958. 

[No, 59 / F , No. 34 / 44 / 58 .Cus-IV . ) 


864 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / AŞVINA 19 , 1880 


[PART H 


G . S . R . 916 . -- The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Şea Customs, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and section 37 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 
1944 ( 1 of 1944) (both as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi 
cherry ) is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 43B for the 
information of persons likely to be affected thereby , and notice is hereby glyen 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November , 
1958. 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with res 
pect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government, 


DRAFT RULES 


1 . Short title . These rules may be called the Customs and Central Excise Duties 
Rofund (Brand Rates) Rules, 1958. 


2. Definition . -- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, 
( a ) " excisable materials " means materials produced or manufactured in 

India or the State of Pondicherry , on which central excise duty has 

been paid ; 
( b ) " export " includes shipment of the goods as provisions or stores for use 

on board a ship proceeding to a foreign port ; 
( C ) " goods" means articles specifled in the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry 
and in the manufacture of which imported or excísable materials or 

both have been used ; 
(d ) " imported materials" means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry , on payment of customs duty ; 
( e ) "manufacturer " means a manufacturer of the goods ; 
( 1 ) " refund " includes drawback of customs duty paid on imported materials 

and rebate of central excise duty paid on excisable materials ; 
(g ) " Schedule " means a Schedule appended to these rules. 


3 . Goods in respect of which refund may be paid . Subject to the provisions 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 
1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) and of these rules and subject also to such provisions of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944, as may be applicable in this behalf , a refund at the 
rate or rates determined in accordance with rule 4 , shall be allowed of the cus 
toms duty paid on the imported materials , and the central excise duty paid on 
the excisable materials , used in the manufacture of the goods exporied from 
India or the State of Pondicherry . 


4 . Rate of refund . — ( 1 ) Refund admissible under these rules in respect of each 
variety or brand of the goods specified in the First Schedule shall be the total 
of the average customs duty paid on the imported materials , and the average 
central excise duty paid on the excisable malerials, used in the manufacture of 
the goods. 

( 2 ) Such averages shall be determined, on application by the manufacturer , 
by the Central Government on the basis of information furnished by the manu 
facturer in respect of the materials used in the manufacture of the goods and 
the customs or the central excise duty , if any, paid on such materials - during 
such period as in the opinion of the Central Government is relevant for the 
purpose . 

( 3 ) Such information shall be furnished by the manufacturer in such form 2 
the Central Government may prescribe in any particular casc , and shall be sub 
ject to such verification as the Central Government may dcem necessary in any 
particular case , 

( 4 ) The Central Government may revise the refund so determined for any 
variety or brand of the goods , at such intervals as it thinks At, and for this pur 
pose , may require any manufacturer to furnish information in such form as it 
may prescribe, and in particular, in respect of the materials used in the manu 
facture of such brand or variety and the customs or excise duty , if any , paid 


Sko . $(1)} THE 


1 


thereon . It such information is not furnished and facilities for its verification 
are not provided , by the manufacturer within such period as may be specified by 
the Central Government, the Central Government may deny refund in respect of 
shipments made, of such riety or brand of the goods alter the expiry of the 
said period, 

5 . Exporter s declarations and documents . At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall, 
( a ) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for refund 

under these rules is being made ; 
( b ) state on the shipping bill, the description , quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 

entitled to drawback , and it so , at what rate or rates ; and 
( c ) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving particulars of the description , quantity 
and value of the goods to be exported . 


6 . Certain conditions for allowing refund .- -Without prejudice to the provisions 
regarding drawback or refund contained in the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , 
in the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( 1 of 1944 ) , in the Central Excise Rules , 
1944 , and in these rules , no refund shall be allowed under these rules unless 

( i) the goods are included in the export manifest, and 
( ii) payment of refund is demanded within six months from the date of 

entry for shipment. 
7 . Powers of Customs Collector . – For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules , the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacture 10 produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported mate 
rials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon . 

8 . Access to manufactory . Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary , the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority , to every part of the premises in 
which the goods are manufactured , so as to enable the officer as authorised to 
verify by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for, the manu 
facture of such goods, or otherwise , the entitlement of the goods for drawback , 
or for a particular rate of drawback , under these rules. 

9 . Repeal of rules . -- The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repcaled except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder . 

THE FIRST SCITEDULE 
- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - 

- - - 
Serial 

Description of the goods 
No. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - - 

- 
1. Motor vehicles including motor cars , trucks, taxi cabs, motor omnibuses , 

lorries , jceps , land rovers station wagons, motor cycles and scooters 

including three wheelers. 
2 . Bicycles . 
3 . Leather cloth . 

Trailers of the vehicular type. 
5 . Kits for, and components of , bus bodies . 
6 . Footwear 
7. Pigments , colours , paints , enamels, varnishes , lacquers and paint ancillaries, 
8 . Sparking plugs. 
9 . Piperazine Syrup . 
- - — - — • - - . - - - - - - -- 

- - 
THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
The Customs and Excise Dutics Drawback ( Trailers ) Rules, 1958 , 
The Customs and Excise Duties Drawback (Bus Body ) Rules, 1958. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Motor Vehicles ) Rules , 
1958. 
• The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Leather Cloth ) Rules, 
1958 . 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Footwear ) Rules, 1958 . 


4 . 


11, , , 8 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART 11 


The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback ( Paints ) Rules, 1968. 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback (Sparking Plugs ) Rules , 
1958 . 

The Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback ( Bicycles ) Rules , 1958 

Tho Customs and Central Excise Duties Drawback ( Piperazine Syrup ) Rules , 
1958 

[No. 60 /F . No. 34 /44/ 58 - Cus. IV .} 


CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 11th October 1958 
G . S . R . 917, - The following draft of an amendment in the Customs Duties 
Drawback ( Tissue Paper ) Rules, 1958 , which the Central Government proposes 
to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the Sea Customs 
Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of Pondi 
cherry is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section , for the 
information of all persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 13th 
November, 1958 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be receiyed from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

Draft Amendment 
In sub - clause ( c ) of rule 3 of the said rules, for the words " precipitated chalk 
and wood pulp " , the words " materials ” shall be substituted . 

[ No. 249 / F . No. 34 / 97 /58 - Cus -IV .] 
G . S . R , 918.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 (8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby makes the following amendment 
in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart 
ment of Revenue ) No. 147 - Customs, dated the 10th May, 1958 , namely : 

In the Schedule annexed to the said notifcation , for the words " at Bombay , 
by the Naval Store Officer " , the words " at Bombay and Cochin , by the Naval 
Store Oncer concerned " , shall be substituted . 

[ No. 250 .) 
G . S .R . 919 .- - The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Bea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section for 
the information of persons likely to be affected , thereby, and notice is hereby 
given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th 
November , 1958 . 


Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with respect 
to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the Central 
Government, 

DRAFT RULES 
1 . Short title . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback 
( Fixed Rates ) Rules, 1958 . 
2 . Definitions. - - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires 
( a ) " export ” includes shipment of goods as provisions or stores for use on 

board a ship proceeding to a foreign port; 
( b ) " goods" means articles specified in the second column or the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry , 

and in the manufacture of which imported materials have been used : 
(c ) " imported materials " means materials imported into , India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty ; 
( d ) " manufacturer " means a manufacturer of the goods; 
( e ) " Schedule " means a Schedule appended to these rules . 


Sec. (i)] | THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19. 1880 


867 


- 


- 


- 


- 


= 


= 


. 


3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid . Subject to the provisions 
ot the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , and of these rules , a drawback at the 
rate or rates referred to in rule 4 , shall be allowed of the customs duty paid 
on the imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods exported from 
India or the State of Pondicherry . 

4 . Rate of drawback . - ( 1 ) Drawback admissible under these rules in respect 
of any goods specified in the second column of the First Schedule shall be at 
the rate or rates specified against such goods in the corresponding entry in the 
third column of the said Schedule , 

( 2 ) The Central Government may revise the rate or rates of drawback so 
specified at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this purpose may require 
any manufacturer of any variety or brand of the goods to furnish information 
in such form as it may prescribe, and in particular , in respect of the materials 
used in the manufacture of such brand or variety and the customs duty , if any , 
paid thereon . 

5. Exporter s declarations and documents. - At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall 
( a ) make a declaration on the relative shipping tell that a claim for draw 

back under these rules is being made; 
(b ) state on the shipping bill, the description , quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 

entitled to drawback , and if so , at what rate or rates ; and 
( c ) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving particulars of the description , quantity 

and value of the goods to be exported . 
6 . Certain conditions for allowing drawback - Without prejudice to the provi 
sions regarding drawback contained in the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and 
in these rules , no drawback shall be allowed under these rules unless 

( i) the goods are included in the export manifest , and 
( li ) payment of drawback is demanded within six months from the date 

of entry for shipment, duly supported by evidenco of compliance 

with the provisions of these rules , 
7. Powers of Customs Collector - - For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules, the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon . 

8 . Access to manufactory. - -Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary , the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority , to every part of the premises in 
which the goods are nanufactured , so as to enable the officer so authorised to 
verify by inspection of the processes of , and the materials used for , the manu 
facture oť such goods, or otherwise , the entitlement of the goods for drawback , or 
for a particular rate of drawback . under these rules . 

9 . Repeal of rules . The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder, 

THE FIRST SCIEDULE 
- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - -- - 
Serial Description of the goods 

Rate of drawback 
No. 


I 


I 


Plastic goods other than spectacle frames , 

leather cloth and polyvinyl chloride ca 
bles , that is to say 
( 1) Polystyrenemoulding powder . . Twenty - six naye paise per pound . 
12 ) Articles which are made wholly of 

any one, and not more than one, of 
the following materials, and compo 
nent parts , similarly made , of any 
articles 
(1) polystyrencmoulding powder Twenty - six naye paise per pound . 
(it) cellulose acetate moulding powder Seventy naye paise per pound . 

or cellulose acetate sheets . 


868 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - 

3 


[ PART JI 
- - - - 


( ii ) cellulose acctate butyrate moul- Seventy naye paise per pound . 

ding powder 
( iv ) urca formaldehyde moulding pow - Forty - two naye paise per pound . 

der, 
(u ) polyethylenemoulding powder . Ninety -six naye paise per pound, 
(ui ) cellulose nitrate sheets , films, Eighty - five naye paise per pound . 

rods or tubes , 
(vii ) polymethyl methacrylate shcets, One rupee and twenty -one naye paise per 
films, rods or tubes . 

pound . 
(viii) polyvinyl chloride shecting of Twenty -five naye paise per pound . 

polyvinyl chloride composition or 
moulding powder , or polyvinyl chlo 
ride resin and plasticiger . 


2 Galvanised iron wire gauze , mesh netting 

and chain link forcing, if made of galva 
Dised iron wire falling under item 63 (25) 
of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff 
Act, 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ). 


(a ) finer than 16 S . W . G , but not - finer Rupees two hundred and eighty -two per 
than 22 S . W .G , 

ton , 
(b ) finer than 22 S . W .G , but not finer Rupeca three hundred and forty -threc 
than 27 S . W .G . 

per ton . 
(c) finer than 27 S. W . G . , 

Rupees three hundred and seventy -eight 

per ton : 
Provided that in the case of goods 

manufactured from wire of diffe 
rent gauges, drawback shall be allow 
ed at the rate applicable to wire of 
the thicker or the thickest variety , 

as the case may be, used in the goods, 
3 Potassium citrate monohydrate , . Thirty onc rupees and sixty nayc paise 

per one hundred pounds, 
4 Glass or Glassware . 

Twenty - onc rupces and twenty - five naye 

paise per lon . 
5 Saccharin , insoluble 

One rupec and eighty - five naye paise per 

pound , 


6 Jute manufactures 

(1) hessian . 
(# ) sacking 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, 


Onc rupee and sixty naye paise per ton , 
Two rupees and forty naye paise per ton t 
Provided that no drawback shall bo 

admissible on fractions of a ton of 
hessian or sacking forming part of 
a shipment. 


7 Dichromates 

(1) Sodium dichromate dihydrate 
( 2 ) Anhydrous sodium dichromate 


, 


(3) Potassium dichromate . 


. 


. 


Three rupeca per hundredweight. 
Three rupecs and forty - five naye paisc 

per hundredweight . 
Three rupees and ten naye paise per hundred 

weight. 
Three rupeçe and sixty naye paigę per 

hundredweight. 
Four rupees and fifty - five naye paise per 
hundredwcight. 


(4 ) Ammonium dichromate 


. 


. 


8 Chromic acid . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Brc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


11 . 


. . 


. 


9 Carbon papers 

( 1 ) Carbon papers in the manufacture 

of which imported tissue paper has 
been used 
(i) Typewriter carbon paper , Sixty - five naye paise per one hundred 

foolscap sheels . 
( ii) Pencil carbon paper or pen carbon Sixiy - two naye paise per one hundred 
paper. 

foulscap shects . 
12 ) Carbon papers in the manufacture 

of which indigenous tissue paper has 
been used 
(1) Typewriter carbon paper . Eleven naye paise per one hundred foolscap 

sheets . 
( ii ) Pencil carbon paper or pen carbon Five naye paise per one hundred foolscap 
paper 

sheets . 
Io Cough syrups 

Per one hundred grams of the following 

ingredients contained in the cough sy 
rupe 
Balsam tolu Eighty -three naye 

paise . 
Menihol . . Onc rupee and forty 

five naye paise . 
Potassium anti- Thirty-nine naye paise . 

mony tartarate 
Potassium sul- Fifty -seven nayepaise. 

phogeaicolate 
Terpene hydrate . Twenty -six naye paise . 


, 


, 


, 


, 


, Six supces and sixty naye paise per pound . 


II Ivory products 
12 Roofing felt -- 

(1) 3-ply . 
(1 ) 2-ply . 
( iii ) underlay 


ton . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. Rupees one hundred and eighty-one per 

Rupees one hundred and eighty-five per 
. Rupees two hundred and ninety- four per 


ton . 


ton . 


13 Plywood 


(1) 3 - ply . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


(12) s-ply 


. 


. 


. 


. 


( 11 ) 7 -piy . 
(iv ) 9-ply . 


. One rupce and forty -two naye paise per 

onc hundred square feet, 
. Two rupces and cighty -four naye palse 

per one hundred square feet, 
Four rupees and thirty -six naye paige per 

one hundred square feet, 
. Five rupees and seventy -eight naye paise 

per one hundred square feci. 
. Seven rupees and twenty naye paise per 

one hundred square feet. 


. 


. 


. 
. 


. 
. 


(u) Il-ply 


. 


. 


14 


Tennis or badminton rackets - - 


(I ) Tennis rackets , standard size . 
(2 ) Tennis rackets, gub-standard size 
(3 ) Badminton rackets, . , 


Two rupeeg and twenty naye paise per dozen , 
. Ninety naye paige per dozen , 
, Ninety naye pajsc per dozen , 


E 


A : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


[Part II 


3 


paper, 


15 Paper products 

( 1) Envclopes made of 
( a ) imported manila and sulphile I wnety -seveli naye paise per pound of 

cnvelope puper, 
(6 ) imported writing paper or printing Thirty -six naye paise per pound of paper. 

paper other than new . prini. 
(2 ) Wriling pads made of imported wri- Thirty -six naye paise per pound of paper . 

ning paper or iinporled printing paper 

other than newsprint . 
( 3) Exercise books made of itnported Thirty -six naye paise per pound of paper . 

wriling paper or imported printing 

paper olier than newsprint, 
16 Fishing rods in the manufacture of which 

( 12 ) imported bamboo poles not less than Thre : rupuar per one hundred pięces . 

seven feel and not inore than cleven 

feet in length have been used , 
( b ) imported bainboo pules more than four rupeei and seventy naye paise per 

cleven l ect but not more than twenty - one hundred pieces . 
three feet in lcngch lave been used , 
(c ) jmporica bambuo poles not less than Nine rupees and fifry naye paise per one 

twenty -six feet and not more than hundred pieces . 
thirty -two feet in length have been 

used , 
17 R . S . pilferprvof closures , 28 millinleier light flipes and lifiy naye paise per une 
size , 

Thousand units. 
18 Spectacle framnesen 

Component parts of pevacle Camus 

exported us yuch or as parts of conz 
plete spectacle francs 
( 1 ) Parts made of cellulose nitrate Eiglily - fivc naye paise per pound , 

shects . 
( 2 ) Side wires 

Sixiy -eight naye paise per gross pieces. 
(3 ) Melal joints or hinge ! 
4 millimeter size . . . . Onc ilipee and fifty naye paise per gross 

pieces , 
6 millimeter size . . . . One rupte und seventy - five naye paise 

per gross picces . 
19 Playing cards made ol 
( 1 ) artbuart, brusin-coulcd on Wu Sixty -seven riaye paise per pound , 

sides, 
(2 ) card board , laminated and black - Seventy -five naye paise per pound. 

centrcd . 
20 Handicrafts and other articles made of Rupees one hundred and twenty -live per 
alabaster , 

tion , 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Potassium Citrate ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Glass and Glassware ) Rules, 1957 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Saccharin ) Rules, 1967, 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Jute Manufactures ) Rules , 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Dichromates ) Rules, 1967 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Carbon Paper ) Rules, 1957 , 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Cough Syrup ) Rules, 1957. 


SEC. 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


871 


- 


- 


- 


- 


The Customs Duties Drawback (Galvanised Iron Wire Products ) Rules , 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Ivory Products ) Rules , 1957 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Roofing Felt ) Rules , 1957 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Plywood ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Dutics Drawback ( Badminton and Tennis Rackets ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Paper Products ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Fishing Rods ) Rules , 1957 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( R . S . Pilferproof Closures ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Spectacle Frames) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Playing Cards ) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Plastic Goods) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Dutics Drawback (Alabaster Articles ) Rules, 1958 . 

[No. 251/ F . No. 34 / 44 / 58 . Cus- IV . ] 


G . S . R . 920 . – The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of the 
Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , is published as required by sub -section ( 3 ) of the said section for 
the information of persons likely to be affected thereby and notice is hereby given 
that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 15th November , 
1958. 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified above will be considered by the 
Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 
1 . Short title . — These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback ( Brand 
Rates ) Rules , 1958 . 
2 . Definitions. In these rules , unless the context otherwise requires. 
( a ) " export" includes shipment of goods as provisions or stores for use on 

board a ship proceeding to a foreign port ; 
( b ) " goods" means articles specified in the second column of the First 

Schedule which are manufactured in India or the State of Pondicherry , 

and in the manufucture of which imported materials have been used ; 
( c ) " imported materials " means materials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty ; 
( d ) "manufacturer " means a manufacturer of the goods; 

( e ) " Schedule " means a Schedule appended to these rules . 
3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid , -- Subject to the provisions 
of the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) and of thesc rules , a drawback as the rate 
or rates determined in accordance with rule 4 , shall be allowed of the customs 
duty paid on the imported matcrials used in the manufacture of the goods , exported 
from India or the State of Pondicherry . 

4 . Rate of drawback . - ( 1 ) Drawback admissible under these rules in respect of 
each variety or brand of the goods specified in the First Schedule shall be the 
average customs duty paid on the imported materials used in the manutacture of 
the goods . 

( 2 ) Such average shall be determined , on application by the manufacturer , 
by the Central Government on the basis of information furnished by the manu 
facturer in respect of the materials used in the manufacture of the goods, and the 
customs duty , if any, paid thereon , during such period as in the opinion of the 
Central Government is relevant for the purpose . 

( 3 ) Such information shall be furnished by the manufacturer in such form 
as the Central Government may prescribe in any particular case , and shall be 
subject to such verification as the Central Government may deem necessary in 
any particular case. 

( 4 ) The Central Government may revise the drawback so determined for any 
variety or brand of the goods , at such intervals as it thinks fit, and for this purpose , 
may require any manufacturer to furnish information in such form as it may 


872 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER II , 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


- 


prescribe, and in particular, in respect of the materials used in the manufacture of 
such brand or variety and the customs duty , if any paid thereon . If such informa 
tion is not furnished , and facilities for its verification are not provided by the 
manufacturer within such period as may be specified by the Central Government, 
the Central Government may deny refund in respect of shipments made of such 
variety or brand of the goods , after the expiry of the said period , 

5 . Exporter s declarations and documents. At the time of the export of the 
goods, the exporter shall 
( a ) make a declaration on the relative shipping bill that a claim for draw . 

back under these rules is being made ; 
(b ) state on the shipping bill, the description , quantity and such other 

particulars as are necessary for deciding whether the goods are 

entitled to drawback , and if so at what rate or rates ; 
( c ) furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the shipment invoice or 

any other document giving particulars of the description , quantity 

and value of the goods to be exported . 
6 . Certain conditions for allowing drawback Without prejudice to the pro 
visions regarding drawback contained in the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , 
and in these rules , no drawback shall be allowed under these rules unless — 

( 1) the goods are included in the export manifest, and 
( ii ) payment of drawback is demanded within six months from the date of 

entry for shipment, duly supported by evidence of compliance with 

the provisions of these rules , 
7 . Powers of Customs Collector. For the purpose of rule 4 of these rules , the 
Customs Collector may require the manufacturer to produce any books of account 
or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid thereon . 

8 . Access to manufactory . Whenever the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief 
Customs Authority considers it necessary , the manufacturer shall give access at 
all reasonable times to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised 
in this behalf by such officer or such authority , to every part of the premises in 
which the goods are manufactured , so as to enable the officer so authorized to 
verity by inspection of the processes of, and the materials used for , the manufacture 
of such goods , or otherwise , the entitlement of the goods for drawback or for a 
particular rate of drawback , under these rules 

9 . Ropeal of rules . The rules specified in the Second Schedule are hereby 
repealed except as respects things done or omitted to be done thereunder, 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
Serial 

Description of goods : 
No . 
1. Copper dusting preparations, namely , fungicidal wettable dusting prepara 

tions of cuprous oxide which are free from cupric compounds and 

other pesticidal ingredients. 
2 . Chokes for fluorescent lamps. 
3 . Radio receivers. 
4. Tooth paste. 
5 . Turbine or centrifugal pumps, whether or not with a motor or gear drive 

attached . 
6 . Tissue paper. 
7. Sewing machines . 
8 . Chrome leather washers. 
9 . Diesel Engines . 
10 . Dyestufts. 
11. Sodium para amino salicylate or calcium para amino salicylate, in tablet 

or other form . 
12. Umbrella ribs, solid or flexus type . 
13 . Disinfectants and antiseptic preparatione 
14 . Card staves. 


- 


- 


8rc. 3 (1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 873 
= E : S S - - - - - -SSSS SSGSSS- - 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Radio Receivers ) Rules, 1957. 
The Customs Dutjes Drawback ( Tooth Paste ) Rules , 1957. 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Pumps ) Rules, 1967 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Tissue paper ) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Sewing Machines) Rules , 1958. 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Chokes for Fluorescent Lamps ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Chrome Leather Washers ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback ( Diesel Engines) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Dyestuffs ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawbuck (PAS Tablets ) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Umbrella Ribs ) Rules, 1958 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Disinfectants and Antiseptics ) Rules, 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Copper Dusting Preparations) Rules , 1958 . 
The Customs Duties Drawback (Card Staves ) Rules, 1958. 

[No. 252 / F . No. 34 / 44 / 58 - Cus.IV . ] 


G . S . R . 921 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ), as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , tho Central Government makes the following further amendments 
in the notification of the Government of India in the late Finance Department 
( Central Revenues ) No. 33-Customs, dated the 22nd June, 1935 , namely : 


In the said notification , in Schedule 6- Iinport Duties, 


( 1 ) under the head A -- General, gerial numbers 2 , 7 , 15 , 16 , 28D , 28J and 

28Q , and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted ; 


( 2 ) under the head B - Government Departments , serial numbers 30 and 31 

and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted ; 


(3 ) under the head C - Other special consignees, serial numbers 38 and 40 

and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted ; 


(4 ) under the head E - Containers, serial numbers 64 and 65 and the entries 

relating thereto shall be omitted , 


[No . 253.] 


G .S . R . 922 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State of 
Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts redium and its salts fall 
ing under item 28 of the First Schedule of the Indian Tarif Act, 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ) , 
when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry from the whole of the duty 
of customs leviable thereon under the latter Act. 

[No. 254 . ] 


G . S . R . 923. -- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts the articles specified 
in the second column of the Schedule hereto annexed , when imported into India 
or the State of Pondicherry , subject to the limitations and conditions specified 
in the third column of the said Schedule , from the whole of the duty of customs 
leviable thereon . 


874 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


(PART II 


-- - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


= 


SCHEDULE 


- - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- - . 


- . - - . 


. - - - - 


Serial 

No. 


- - - - - 

Goods 


Limitations and 

Conditions 


- - 


- 


- - - - -- - 


- - 


- - 


- - - - 


- 


1 , Dairy appliances , excluding trans 

port containers and articles 
included in itcm 72 ( 9 ) of the 
First Schedule to thc Indian 
Tariff Act, 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ) : 


Provided they are specially design 

ed as dairy appliances and for 
use for milking the cow or for 
any subscquent process carried 
out in the dairy in connection 
with milk cream , butter or 
cheese . 


2 . Componcnt parts of such dairy 

appliances ; 


Provided they can be readily Atted 

into their proper places in the 
appliances for which they are 
imported and they cannot ordi 
narily be u -ed for other than 
dairy purposes . 


. -. -- --- -- - - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- 


-- 


- - 


--- - 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


[ No. 255. ] 


G . S . R . 924 .. - In exercise of the power s conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempls wreaths for being 
placed on graves, when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry, from 
the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon . 

[No. 256. ] 


G .S . R . 925 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act. 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby excmpts ( a ) ocean - going vessels 
imported to be broken up , and ( b ) parts of vessels under repair removed for 
replacement, from so much of the duty of customs leviable thereon as is in 
excess of 20 per cent, ad valorem : 

Provided that articles contained in any such vessel not forming part of her 
necessary tackle , apparel or furniture ( e . g . Pianos, crockery , cutlery ) shall be 
assessed to duty separately under the appropriate items of the Tariff . 

[No. 257. 


G . S . R . 926 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts opium , when imported 
by Government from a customs port into any of the following ports , from pay 
ment of the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon , namely : 

( 1 ) Calcutta ; 
(2 ) Madras; 
( 3 ) Bombay ; 
( 4 ) Alibag ; 
( 5 ) Ratnagiri; and 
(6 ) Karwar . 

[No, 258 . ] 


G . S . R . 927 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 


Sec . 3 (1) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 
= = = = + — SSZBAVI 

-- - 

= 
of Pondicherry, the Central Government hereby exempts challenge cups or 
trophies - - 
( a ) which have been won by any unit of the Defence forces in India or 

by a particular member or members of such unit in a competition 
which is not confined to units or members of the units stationed in 
India ; 

or 
(b ) which are being reimported and which , before being exported , had 

been won by any such unit or member or members of a unit in a 
competition not satisfying the above mentioned condition ; 

OT 
( c ) which have been sent by donors resident abroad for presentation to 

or competition among such units or members of such units 
when imported into India or the State of Pondicherry , from payment of the 
whole of the duty of customs lerviable thereon : 

Provided that the articles for which free entry is claimed are certified by the 
Officer Commanding the unit or Brigade or any higher military authority or any 
of their staff officers as having been offered for competition or presented with 
the solc or main object of encouraging military efficiency ; provided further that 
the cups or trophies have had engraved on them before bcing shipped the object 
for which presented , and except in the case of those sent by donors resident 
abroad for competition in India , the name of the winner or winners, 

" No. 259 .) 
G . $ . R . 928 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the Stalc 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts drums and other con 
tainers of a durable nature, when imported full into India or the State of Pondi 
cherry , from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon : 
Provided that the Customs Collector is satisfied 
( a ) that the containers so imported , or an equal number of precisely 

similar containers, have not more than one year previously , been 
exported empty by or on behalf of the importer without a claim 
for drawback of import duty having been made and established ; 

and 
( b ) that an importer applying for the benefit of the exemption conferred 

hereby with reference to any exportation of empty containers has 
not already obtained the benefit of the exemption with reference to 
such exportation . 

[ No . 260 .) 
G . S . R , 929 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applicd to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts used containers of a 
durable nature, when imported cmpty into India or the State of Pondicherry, 
from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon ; 
Provided that the Customs Collector is satisfied 
( a ) that the containers so imported from any country or an equal number 

of precisely similar containers have, not more than three years pre 
viously , been cxported full to such country or for use on a ship 
that has thereafter visited such country by or on behalf of the im 
porter without a claim for drawback of import duty having been 

made and established ; and 
( b ) that an importer applying for the benefit of the exemption conferred 

hereby with reference to any exportation of full containers has 
not already obtained the beneAts of the exemption with reference to 
such exportation , 

[ No. 261.) 
G . S . R . 930. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby exempts ocean - going vessels 
imported into India or the State of Pondicherry , other than vessels imported to 
be broken up, from the whole of the duty of customs leviable thereon : 

Provided that any such vessel it subsequently broken up shall be chargeable 
with the duty which would be payable on her if she were imported to be broken 
up 

[No. 262. ] 


. 


. 


. GA , 


OF . 


A : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


(PART II 


G . S . R . 931, - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue ) No. 182 - Customs, 
dated the 28th December, 1956, the Central Government hereby exempts amodia 
quin imported into India or the State of Pondicherry and falling under item 28 
of the First Schedule to the Indian Tariff Act, 1934 ( 32 of 1934 ) , from 
( i ) so much of the customs duty leviable thereon under the latter Act 

as is in excess of the duty of 10 per cent, ad valorem , where the 

standard rate of duty is leviable ; and 
( ii ) the whole of the duty leviable thereon , where the prefcrential rate 
of duty is leviable. 

[No. 263.] 
G . S . R . 932 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 23 of the Sea 
Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the State 
of Pondicherry , and in supersession of the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Revenue) No. 177 - Customs, 
dated the 26th December , 1956, the Central Government hereby exempts com 
ponent parts (other than frames , petrol tanks, silencers and pistons ) of ( i ) 
three - wheeled auto - rickshaws, and ( ii) three -wheeled vehicles mounted on the 
chassis of such auto - rickshaws and adapted for the conveyance of goods , imported 
into India or the State of Pondicherry in C . K . D . packs for assembly , and falling 
under items Nos . 75 ( 9 ) , 75 / 10 ) , 75 (71) and 75 ( 12 ) of the First Schedule to the 
Indian Tariff Act, 1034 ( 32 of 1934 ) , from so much of the duty of customs leviable 
thereon under the last mentioned Act as is in excess of the duty of 
( 1 ) 22 } per cent. ad valorem , where the standard rate of duty is leviable ; 

and 
( 2 ) 15 per cent, ad valorem , where the preferential rate of duty is levlable . 

[ No . 264.) 
G . S . R . 933 .-- The following draft of certain rules which the Central Govern 
ment proposes to make in exercise of the powers conferred by section 43B of 
the Sea Customs Act , 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ) , as in force in India and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry is published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the said section 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is 
hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th November, 1958 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date so specificd will be considered by the 
Central Government . 

DRAFT RULES 
1. Short title . These rules may be called the Customs Duties Drawback (Public 
Address Equipment ) Rules, 1958 . 
2 . Definitions .- - In these rulcs , unless the context otherwise requires, 

( a ) “ Act" means the Sea Customs Act, 1878 ( 8 of 1878 ); 
(b ) " goods" means public address equipment manufactured in India or 

the State of Pondicherry and in the manufacture of which imported 

materials has becn used ; 
( c ) " imported materials " means maierials imported into India or the State 

of Pondicherry on payment of customs duty . 
3 . Goods in respect of which drawback may be paid . Subject to the provisions 
of the Act and these rules a drawback shall be allowed in respect of the imported 
materials used in the manufacture of the goods exported from India or the State 
of Pondicherry . 

4 . Rate of drawback , - ( 1 ) The rate of drawback admissible under these rules 
on the shipment of the goods shall be the average customs duty paid on the 
imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods. 

( 2 ) Such rate shall be determined by the Central Government (hereinafter in 
this sub - rule referred to as the Government) at such intervals as the Government 
may consider necessary on the basis of information furnished by the manufacturer 
of the goods and verified by the Government in respect of the duty paid on 
imported materials during such period as in the opinion of the Government is 
relevant for the purpose . 


SRC. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTORER 11, 


Hi . 19 . con 


5 . Manner of allowing drawback . -- Drawback shall be allowed on the shipment 
of the goods from any port in India or the State of Pondicherry subject to the 
following conditions, namely :-- 
( a ) that the shipper shall, on the relative shipping bill, make a declaration 

that a claim for drawback under section 43B of the Act is being 

made; and 
( b ) that the shipper shall furnish the Customs Collector with a copy of the 

shipment invoice or any other document giving details of the 

description , quantity and value of the goods under shipment . 
6 . Powers of Customs Collector . - For the purpose of these rules , the Customs 
Collector may require the shipper or the manufacturer of the goods to produce any 
books of accounts or other documents relating to the proportion and quantity of 
the imported materials used in the manufacture of the goods and the duty paid 
thereon , or to furnish any return in respect thereof. 

7 . Access to manufactory . The manufacturer of the goods in respect of which 
a drawback is claimed under these rules shall give access to every part of the 
manufactory to any officer of the Central Government specially authorised in this 
behalf by the Chief Customs Officer or the Chief Customs Authority , to enable 
the officer so authorised to inspect the processes of manufacture and to verify by 
actual check or otherwise the statements made in support of the claim for draw 
back . 

[No. 285 / F . No. 34 / 81/ 58 .Cus - IV . ] 

S , VENKATARAMAN , Dy. Secy . 
- - - - - - - - - -- -- - - - 

- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 


Exchange Control Department 


Central Office 


Bombay , the 23rd September 1958 
G . S . R . 934. - - In pursuance of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Finance Department No. 12 ( 13 ) - FI/ 47dated the 25th March , 1947, the 
Reserve Bank hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be 
made in the schedule to the notification of the Reserve Bank of India No , F . E .R A . 
10 / 47 - R . B . dated the 25th March , 1947, namely : - . 
In the said Schedule the entry " Hind Bank Ltd ." shall be omitted . 

[ No. FE.R .A .185 /58 -R .B .) 
H . V . R . IENGAR , Governor. 


- - - - - - - - - - -- - ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
MINISTRY OF FOOD & AGRICULTURE 

( Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 301h September 1958 
G . S . R . 935 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for regulating 
the recruitment to Non -Gazetted posts in the Indian Institute of Sugarcano 
Research , Lucknow , namely : 

1. Short title . These rules may be called the Indian Institute of Sugarcane 
Research , Lucknow (Reruitment to Non -Gazetted posts ) Rules , 1958 . 

2 . Description of Posts. - - The designations of Non -Gazetted ( Class II, III and 
IV ) posts in the Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research , Lucknow , their classifica 
tion and scales of pay , and the duties of the holders of such posts shall be as 
specified in columns 1 to 5 of the Schedule in these rules. 

3 . Method of Recruitmtnt. -- The method of recruitment, qualiAcations, age 
limits and other matters relating to these posts shall he as laid down in columns 
6 to 15 of said Schedule . 


SBDULI 


v 


Reaken Wes for the post of Non -Gazetted Posts. 


In Indian louitute of Sugarcane Research , Luckook 


= G 

= 


= 


If a DPC 
easts what 

is its 
composition 


Name of Post 


of 


No. of Classification 
Posts 


Sale 
pay 


Thether 

Selection 
post OI 

non 
selection 

post 


Circumstances 
in which 

U . P . S . C . 
15 to be 
consulted 10 
making rest. 


Whether 

Method of In case of 
limit for Educational 

And 

and Bgc and Period recti , bether rectt. by 
direct other qualifications educational of by direct promotion 
recruits required 

qualifications probation recit , or by transfer. 
prescribed if any promotion of grades from 
for 

transfer and which pro 
the 

percentage of motion to be 
direct 

mnade 
recruits 

Facancies to 
Mill 

be filed by 
apply 

Tarious methods 
in the 
case of 
promo 

tecs 


II 


- 


- - 


========== -OFINDIA:OCTOBER11,1958/ASVINA19,1880 

======------ 


Essehat 


Promotion 


Senior Artist One 
Cwm - Photo 


No. 


No 


Diploma 


One year 


General Rs. 250 - - 10 - Selection 
Ceatra 300 - 15 -450 
Service 

25 : 2 - 100 
Class II 
Non -Gazelled 

Noir 
Ministria 


pher 


Belor 10 I . Degree / Diploma 
yent in t from recog 

nlised Lairersityi 

Institute 
2 . About 3 year 

experience 10 

! Iccognised 
Scientific 

Insti 
tuto 23 list -en 
Photographer. 


One year 50 * by I. Photogra- 

PILDID pher - 
soo , by direct Artist 
recruitment 2 . Artist- cuir 

Photographer . 


Departmeno As required 
tal promotion under the 
Committec Rules . 

of the 
Ministry of 
Food 201 

Agriculture 
Department 
of Agricul 
ture ) Class II 
Posis, 


( Qualifications rela 
rabic at Comin19 
sion s disattog in 
ces of candidates 
other 18 

Yell 
qualified ), 


------ [PARTII. 

- 


Det 
1 . Prof.cle cy in co 
od in driving 

tter colour 
penting 
2 . Diploma in photo 

graphy from 
recomised Tech 
pical Institute 


SEG.3(1)] 


NOTE - - The Photograbet -cottist and Artistian -Photographer should bare put in atleast 7 years and 10 years service respectively in the 

gruda , before they can be considered to be eligible for promotion . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA: 





11,10 


. 


. 


. 11, 


vor . , 


19 , 1880 


(PART II 


SCH 
Indian Institute of Sugarcona 


Percentage of posts to be Alled by 


of 


Dutios 


No. of 
posts 


Scale 

pay 


Name of 
Posts 


Promotion 


Trans 
fer 


Its 
Clarification 

whether 
gazetted or 
Non -Gazotted 

and 
wbother 
Ministoral 


Direct 
recruit - 
ment 


By 
selec 
tions 


Seniority 

orch 
fitness 


ог 


Non 
Ministorial 


Office 
Superintendent. 


Rs. 
Clans III ago I 
Miniotorlal 400 
Non 
Gazetted 


7 


25 % 


... 75 % 


Supervision of the 
work of vetious 
sectiong As allocated 
by the Director , 


Do. 


160 — 1030 


Technical Asbla 

trot ( Hindi) . 


I 


... 


.. 


. 


Transfer 


1 . Translation work 
from Hindi loto 
English and oros 
Ootsa . 
2 . Any othor duties 
allocated by the 
Director , 


Dou 


Do. 


I 50 % 


... 


50 % 


Accountant 


1. To be Incharge of 

Accounto work 
2 . To prcpert the 
budget of I , I . S . R . 
and keep control 
over its expendituro , 
Disposing of con 

Aidential and urgent 
DRPCIe 102 the camp 
while the Director 
18 on tour, 


Do . 


Do. 


Confidential 

Assistant , 


100 % 
by promo 
tiou fall Dy 
which by 
diroct 
recruitment. 


Do 


8 


50 % 


. .. 


50 % 


Rs. 89 - 5- To work in the accounts 

120 - B - catablishment, Store 
8 . - 200 - 10 /2 purchaso , Form or any 
220 

other Section . 


25 
Jer 


Upper Division 
Clerks ( includ 

Senior 
Clarks) and 
Accounts Clerks 


Do. 


Do.] 


S 


50 % 


... 


Stenortopher 


50 % 


1 . To work w . Stenogra 

Stenogra - 
pher uttached to the 
various ofcera , 
2 . To do any other 
correspondence work 
chtrusted by the 
officer concerned, 
To work 49 Routine 
Clerk und Typist, 


Do. 


12 


12 100 % 


100 % 


... 


. 


Junior Clerks and 

Typists, 


Re. 60 
1981 
E . B . - - 4 
1254 
Igo 


Doj 


Do . 


Do. 


I 100 % 


... 


Hindi Typist 


... 


... 


Typing in Hindi and 
any other clcrical 
work ellotted by tho 
head of the office , 


SEC. 8(i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


881 


DULI 
Research , Lucknow 


For direct recruitment only 


For promotion /transfer only 


Ano Volt 


Educational and other 
qualification requlred 


Perod of 
probation 

if any 


Composition 
of D . P . C . 


Whether age and Grados /sources from 
educational qua - which promotion 
lifications prescribed tranfor are to be 
for direct rocrult mido 
mont will apply 
In case of appoint 
meat by promotion 

transfer 


IO 


40 yoen . 


I . Graduate of any recognised 
Univertity in India . 
2 . About 7 years exporionco 

in Establishment Accounts 
and Storos Purchase work 
preferably In 1 Govt, Office . 


I YCATS Age relaxablo, Edu - Promotion from 1. Director 

cational qualifica - Accountant / Tochnical Charmen . 
tions roxablo for Assistant (Hindi) 2 . Flvo Senior 
candidates with Ro . 160 — 10 — 330 Sectional 
3 years servico in 

Oticon 
the next lower 

Members, 
grado. 

3 . Adminis . 
trutivo 
Oncer 
Mambor 
Secretary, 


40 years . 


Do. 


Yes 


Do. 


At least Intornodiata (with 

English as one of the 
Rubjects) and Prabhakur 
Or its equivalent in 
Hindi, prefor bly well 
experienco in translation 
vork , 


If 


car of 


the 


QualiAgd omploy : 
ces in the gredo of 
Rs. 80- 220 in Central 
Government Offices, 

permanent 
Central Secretariat 
Clorlal Sorvice 
Cadro ero selected 
for 

appointment 
to this post, thcy 
will be 

antitled 
to special ppy 
of R . 

only 
instead of 

20 
por cent of 

thelt 
grade PAY 

while 
on deputation , 
Do . 

U . D . C . and Accounts 
Clerk in tho scale of 
Ro . 80 - S - 120 
E . B , - 8 - 200 

10 / 2 -- 220 . 
Age and educational By promotion from 

quelifications - Stenographer , 
lazablo for de 
partmental candi 
to otherwiso suit 
able . 


30 years 


DO . 


Do. 


Grudunto, preferably in 

Comerco with at least 5 
ycanı oxporience of Ac 
counts work , 


30 yeirt. 


Do . 


Do. 


A degree proferably 10 
Science . Must HAYO 
shorthand poed of 120 
Word , per minute . Ofico 
crporience for at least 5 
youn as P . A . or Steno 
rephor desirable, 


25 year . 


Do. 


Do . 


Grıduate with Accounts and 
Oftace onperlenco . Good 
knowledge of notlas and 
office procedure Cuential, 


Ago rolaxable . Edu - 

cational qualifica - 
tlono Talaxablo 
for candidata 
with 3 year s crvico 
in nert lower grede , 
Agt rolerable, 


Junior Clerla od 

Stort Kooperi 
lo the scale 
Rs. 60 — 130 . 


of 


25 years 


Do. 


Do . 


I . Matriculate 
2 . Speed 100 words per 
minute in shorthand and 
40 Words per minute in 
Typewriting . 


Junior Clerks and 
typists who know 
Stonography. 


25 year . 


Matriculate with knowlodgo 

of typing, 


Do. 


25 year . 


Do . 


Matriculate with typing 
spoed of 25 words per 
minute in Hindi, 


882 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


Cubier 


I 


. 


100 % 


Class III 
Miniotorld 
Non - Gazetted 


RS. 60 - 3 - 81 . To work . Cashler 
BB - 4 - 12 - 5 - 130 

(Plus R . 
15 - 1 
spectal 
pay ). 


Storo Kapor 


Do , 


Receipt and Iosuo of 
Store . 


5 


100 % 


R . 603 - 
81 - EK 

125 
130 . 


. . 


Farm Suporn 

tendant. 


Ry, 2006 

15 — 950 , 


Incharge of the Farm 
of the Institute , 


I 50 % 


.. 


Clan III 
Techni 
cal 
Non 
Gazetted 

Non 
Ministerial, 


Do . 


Do. 


Boginarlag Ro- 

domroh Assistant, 


Do. 


Goneral Suporylaton 

of the workshop . 


.. 


Do. 


Do . 


I 


Do, 


. . 


Do. 


Avointant Farm 

Superintendent, 


R ., 160 
10330 . 


1 . To lasint the Form 

Superintendent, 
2 . To super vloe Farm 

Operations 


Rescarch Aulateat 


Do. 


Do . 


8 Do. 


. 


Do. 


. 


To saolot Saotlonel 
Oficors in the T 
ocution of Resourch 
prolects . 


Ansis 


Do. 


Do. 


Statistical 

tant , 


I 


100 % 


Planolog of Flald or - 

periments and Sta 
tistical analysis of 
rottoh data . 


Do , 


Do .) 


I 


. 


. 


Senior Microblo 

logical Assistant. 


To aslat Sectional 
Once in orocution 
of Research work , 


100 % 
( if no qui 
teble 
candidate 
Is Available 
under this 
category 
than by 
direct to 
arultadat) . 


Sec . 3+1)] 


| THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


882 


II 


12 


13 


IO 
- - 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


25 


with 


ofico 


Matriculate 

experimce, 


Ono Age tolixable . 
Yets 


from ſuolor Clarke 


Do. 


yo 


De. 


Matriculates with experience 

of hendling atores , 


Do. 


35 
yçer . 


1. M . Sc. (Agri.) from a 
rocopaised Univorulty or 
A . S . (Agrl.) and Associate of 
thoI .AR . I (for equl 
valent diploma) . 
2 . Should have oxparlence of 
Muling & Farm . 


Do . Only age rolexible. 

Minimum educen 
tional qualifich . 
tlogy , for depart- 
mental candidates , 
dogret in Agricul 
turo of i University 
or lo aquívelopt. 


Assistant Farm 

Superlatondent 
In tho sculo of Rs. 
160 - 10 - 33 . . 


35 


Do. 


Age relaxable , 


D .. ] 


cara . 


B . Sc. ( Eneg.) with at least 2 

An cxperience of Firm 
cultivation . Diploma in 
Mechanical Baginooring 
and 5 year cyperionce 
in the motra imeat of a 
modern and well - equip 
ped workshop 


From ( Bnginooring 
Rosearch Asistant 
in the scalo of Rs. 
160 - - 10 - 330 ). 


30 


Do. 


Do. 


Aslatent Agriculturo 
Indpoctor. 


D . . 


Years . 


I . B . Sc . ( Agri.) from i re 

Conlied University of 
Asociate of the IAR, . 

( or equivalont diploma). 
2 . Should have Iperience 

of menegios e ferm . 


30 
yCT . 


Do. 


D . . 


Ago relaxible , Edu - From Junior Scienti 
cational qualifice - Ac Awolotant in the 
tions not relaxable Scale of R ., 80 — 120 . 
below B . Sc. (Agri.). 


1 . M . Sc. or M . Sc . (Agri ) 

in the subject for which 
recruitment in to be made, 
or B . Sc . or B . Sc . 
(ABD .) with post - graduate 

diplomo . 
2 . At least 3 years experience 

of Sugarcane Rencarch . 
3 . For Engineering Section 

B . Sc. (Eng ) from a re 
cognised Unlvordity , pre 
formbly with typerlonce of 
Articultural Machinery . 


30 


Do. 


YCATS , 


1 . M . Sc . in Mathematlos 

with Statistics or M . Sc . 

ja Statistics , 
2. Prefertace to Diploma 

holder from Indien Star 
dard Institute. 


30 


Do , 


Do. 


you . , 


M . Sc. of M . Sc . (4 .) 

in Chemistry, of B .Sc., 
or B . Sc. (Apr .) with porte 
graduate diploma in Agri 
culturel Chemitry with 
specialisation in Soil Mi 
croblology, with 3 yeurt 
Rosearch operitnco . 


Age relaxablo . Edu - Prom Junlor Scan 
cationel qualjich tlic Aulating 
tion , not rolarnblo Field Assistant aud 
btlow B .Sc. (Ap ). Laboratory Aule 

tent , lq tho toplo of 
R . 80 - 230 and 
2 . 60 - igo. 


884 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958/ AŞVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


3 


Senior Soll An- 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


. 


I 


.. 


. 


Do . 


.. 


obstant, 


Senior Phyololo 

glalAyolstant. 


Do 


D o. 


Do. 


. 


. 


I 


.. 


.. 


Do. 


. 


Sonior Chanical 


Do. 


Do 


D 


o. 


. 


. 


.. 


. 


Asslotant, 


Do 
( If not 

luitable 
cundidate 

mailable 
under this 
category 
then by 
dirtot ro 
cruitment) 


Soplor 


Drift 


Do . 


Do. 


100X 


Preparation of detalled 

drawing of machine 
DATU Aurl Implc 
mont and Macho 

Ty eto . 


Librarian 


- 


Do. 


De. 


To be Inchorro of 


100 % 


.. 


.. 


. 


Library . 


Mechanic 


- 


Do. 


RA 150 
- 185. 


I 


30 % 


. . 


Malintenance and over 

haul of Farm spd 
Workohop machinery . 


Milling Machine 

Operator 


Do. 


Ro. 139 --6 Operating the Mlillag 


I Do. 


.. 


Do . 


.. 


- 185 . 


Machino, 


SEQ . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


885 


II 


IS 


- 


- 


- 


- 


— 


- 


- - - 


ro 


Do. 


Do . 


Do , 


Do. 


30 M . Sc., or M . Sc . (Agri ) 
years in Soil Chemlatry, or 

B . Sc., or B . Sc . Agrl.) 
with post graduate Dip 
loma in Soii Chemlatry 
with 3 years Research 
experience . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


From Junior Scien 
tiflc Agnistant and 
Junior Chemical 
Assistants, in tho 
# cale of Rs. 80-- - 
220 . 


Do. 


Do. 


30 M . Sc., or M . Sc . (Agri.) 
yeart in Botany or Chemistry 

with specialisation in 
Plant Physiology , or B . Sc. 
or B . Sc. ( A ) 
with post graduato dip 
loma in Plant Physiology 
with 3 years Research 

asperlence. 
30 M . Sc. (Chemistry ) or M . Sc. 
years Aprl.) in Agricultural 

Chemistry or B . Sc . of 
B . Sc. (Ayri. ) with post 
graduate diploma in Ag 
ricultural Chemistry , with 

years resourch dipori 
çoce or D , Sc. (Agri.) of 
B . So. (with Chopotrtry ), 
with 5 years experience ot 
tooarch lo jugar Or auger 

cane Chemistry. 
90 

Ersanttal. - I . Mual have 
yeurs paused Diploma Couro 

in drafuomen - ship with 
machine drawing one 
of the main subjects from 
Tecognised Institution . 


Ago relatablo - que - From Junior Scien 
Tlfications not role tific Aulstanta, 
x ble below B . Sc., Junior Chemical 
Or B . Sc . (Agri.) Assistents, Lab 

oratory Ass lotant, in 
the scalo ot 80 
220 And Demons 
tration Assistant 
(Gur & Khenduart) 
in tho scale of R & . 
120 - 220 . 


Do , 


Do. 


From pormenont/ 

Quasi-permanent 
Draftemen in the 

Calo of Ro. 100 
185 . 


2 . Must huve at least three 

ураг. ехреrіеnсе ав а 
mechanical draftsman in e 
Government office or ED 
glnccring firm of reputo . 


Do . 


30 Essential. - I . Graduato 
Yoans in Science or Agriculture, 

2 . Diploma or degree in 

Library Science from any 
I¢cogalacd University or 

Instatute . 
Depablo . Experience 40 

• Librarian in some Te 
chnicalbattuļo . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do , 


From Milling muc 

hinc operator : Tur 
ner , Fittori , Dril 
loro , Woldort and 
Trector Drivers, lo 
tho sculo of Rs, 60 
105 . 


1 . Must have A diploina in 
Mechanical or Automobile 
Bngineering from any rc 
colocd institution , with 

lomat 4 ye178 Practical 
ekperience in the maintenance 
and overhuul of PTACTVrs 
Heim Machinery epd 
Fruinpins Plants , or must 
have minimum of 5 years 
procul experience in the 
Tacnance und overhaul 
a LLUCLUIN Ayricultural 

oplemente onu pumping 
plants . 


2 . Muchino Bhop experienco 
will be an Additionul qua 
lification 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


Must have diploma of thc 

Artsen las from ony 
fecourued Institution , 


From Turner , Fitter , 

Drillcra Wel 
dore, in the scale 
of Rs. 60 — 105 . 


- 


- 


- 


886 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958/ ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


- - 


- 


- 


MAT 


D 


Do . 


ponstration 
Asustent. 


Rs. 
120 – 8 — 200 
- BB 10 / 2 

- 220 , 


I 


. 


. . 


100 % 


To Ashlet Soctional 
Dicere in the Oxecu 
tion of Rcucarch 
work , 


Draftsman . 


. 


Do. 


I 


100 % 


. . 


Ro . 100 .5 - 125 Prepating layout chat , 

-6 155 – naps & graphs. 
185 . 


B6 


Photographer - cum - 

Artist. 


I 


Da. 


Do . 

Du . 

Drawing of diseasod 

specimens of cand 
in ink and water 
colour, prints, pho 
tograph of dlocused 
specimens micro 
photopaphy -matalal 
mounted on slidey, 
Map okotching and 

lettering. 
Do, Ro . 80 - 1 - 120 Field and Laboratory 

- LB - 8 duties , 
-- 200 - - 10 / 2 
- 220 . 


Junior Scientific 

Assistant. 


4 


50 % 


. . 


50 % 


Senior Scientific 


Do. 


Do 


D 


o. 


. 


. 


Do. 


.. 


Do. 


. 


Assistant. 


Junior 


Chemical 


Do, 


Do, 


Do . 


Juglor Chemical 

Austent. 


Do. 


Laboratory duties 


2 Do. 


2 


Do. 


.. 


Do . 


Do . 


.. 


Artjot- cum -Photo - 

grapher, 


Do . 


Do . 


I 100 % 


.. 


. 


.. 


Drawing of discused 

apoclmens of cinc 
in ink and water 
colour, paints , pho 
to raphy of diseas 
cd specimena , Mlato 
photography of 
material mountod 
on slidco, Map sket 
ching and lettoring , 


Lwboratory Asolat- 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do . 


To AABibt Sectional 

Olticor la the exau 
tion of Rescarcha 
Work . 


2 100 % 


.. 


.. 


.. 


ant. 


Senior Computor. 


Do, 


Do. 


To compilo statjaticul 

data , 


100 % but 
if no suit 
able candidate 
Availablo 
thon 
by diroct 
recruitigent, 


Sortor & Pinner . 


Do, 


Do. 


[ 50 % 


To work 19 Setter 

and Pinnor in Ento 
mology Section , 


2 . To hold the Resout 

ch Assistant in CO 
ordination of Re 
sourch Work . 


Sec . 8 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


88 


II 


1 . 3 


14 


30 ycero 


Do. 


Do . 


Esserial. - M . Sc. (Chom .) or 

B . Sc., with 2 years practi 
col experience in a Gur & 

Khandsart l actory 
Dorrable.- - A diploma In 

Suur Technology from a 
ftconised Institute , 


Are and Educational Laboratory Ageist 
quelifications willent in the cale of 
not apply In tho Rs. 80 - 220 . 
Cast of pumanont / 
Qumi- permanent 
Laboratory Asslot 
ant . 


Do. 


Do . 


1 . Should poss098 drafts 

man , diploma from any 

recognised Institute , 
2 . Should have worked 4 , 1 

draftsman in a Govt. Office 
or Cominorcial Firm of 
tood standing for A mini 
mum of thrco ycare . 
A Diploma or cortificato of 

the School of Arto , profi 
clency In lettering , ponci) 
drawing, water colour punt 
Ing, oll painting, photogra 
phy And Microphoto 
gruphy . 


Do, 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Ꭰ9 


B . Sc. or B .Sc. (Agri.) with 

atleast three years experi 
ence of ourArCADC research 
in the required subject. 


Age and Educational Prom Junior Scientific 
qualification , re - Assistent in the 
luable for dopert - scale of Rs. 60 - 150 . 
montal candidato. Field Assistent in 
with 3 yoor sorv [ co tho scalo of R .. 
in Junior Sciontific 60 - 150 . 
Agalatant grade . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


Do, 


e . 


B .Sc., B .Sc. (Agri.) with ut 

lount throo years experienco 
of rescarch in the required 
subject . 


25 years 


Do . 


B . Sc. Or B . Sc . ( Agri.) with 

Chemisfry as one of tht 
optional with 2 years ex 
perience of work in recog 
niacd ChemicalLaboratory . 


30 ycor 


Do . 


A Diploma or cortificato of 

tho School of Arts, profl 
cloncy in lettering, pencil 
drawing. water colour 
painting, oil palnting , pho 
tography und Micro - photo 
graphy . 


Do. 


Do. 


Essential.- M . Sc. ( Chemistry) | 

Or B . Sc ., with ono yoor 
osperience of analysis of 
Augår and other sugar fac 
tory producto. 


25 ycort 


Do 


Espatial. Should bo 

graduato with Statistica 
of Mathematical Stutlari 
CH as one of the subjects . 


From permanent/ Quebl 

parmenant ! Junior 
Computor in tho 
scola of Rs. 60 - 150 . 


30 year 


Do. 


Do . 


Borential. B . Sc . , or B . Sc . 

(Arr . ) with experience of 
handling large scalo col 
lection or insect post of 
mugurcing, thoir roerlag . 
presorvation , setting and 
pinning etc , 


Age and Educational From permanent 

Qualifications 10 - Quadi- pormenont 
luçablo for depart Soicntic Assistant) 
mcatel candidatos Fiold Agglotant la 
With 3 yort ROT the imalo of Rs . 
vico lo Junior Sci 60 — 150 . 
cotilla Arelatent / 
Field Abutant 
Gnder. 


888 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1988 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


(Part II 


RA. 


Do. 


Arriculture Inspo 

tor . 


80 - - 2204 To supervise Farm 
& 8045 - 120 . Operations. 


2 


100 % 


Do , 


80 - 5110 


Assistant Agri 

culture Inspec 


Do. . 


. 


100 % 


.. 


tot . 


Do . 


Laboratory duties 


2 


Do. 


Laboratory Aadio 

unt. 


60 - - 4 - 120 

150 . 


Field Assistant . 


Do. 


Do. 


Experimental field work 


6 50 % 


. . 


50 % 


Junior Scientific 

Avulstant. 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


. 


I 100 % 


Computor . 


- 


Do. 


Do. 


To compute Statistical 


I 100 % 


.. 


Data , 


Do. 


I 


100 % 


. . 


Truck - cum -Pump 

ing Plant Driver 


6052— 75 Runnlag of Truck and 
- 

Pumping plant. 
IOS 


Driller 


Do . 


Do. 


Operating bench and 

Radlil drill . 


I 100 % 


. . 


Welder 


. 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


Operating Get and ArC 
Wolding equipaent. 


I 


100 % 


Ritter 


- 


Do. 


Do. 


Bench Fitting 


, 


50 % 


50 % 


Electrician . 


Do, 


Do. 


I 


50 % 


. . 


50 % 


Attendlat tothe Instal 
ation and maintengoc 
of cloctric motrt und 
elcatrical cquipment . 


Swe. 3 (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 31, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


889 


IO 


II 


12 


13 


30 yaani 


Do 


Ago relaxable. 


Must be B . Sc ., (Agr .) with 

At least two yers experi 
once of Farm cultivation , 


Agolotant Agricultura 
Inspector. 


Do . 


Do. 


. 


Do. 


: 


25 year 


Do. 


Inter, Sc. of Inter Sc. Agrl 

or Agricultural Diploma 
holders from a recognised 
Agricultural School with 
Science with at lcast 2 years 
cxperience of laboratory 
work . 


Do. 


Inter. Sc. (Agr.) Inter , Sc . 

Biology or Diploma holdet 
from any recognised agri 
cultural School, with prac 
tical experience of field work , 


From Flodman and 
Field Attondants 
in tho scale of R . 
40 -60 & RA. 35 


So , 


Do, 


Do. 


Should be a Matriculate Int 

Division , 
Danroble - Should be able 

to operato Calculating Me 
chino, 


30 year 


1. Should ponBCAS # valid li 

cenco for driving heavy 
transport vehiclco . 


1. Must have practical ex 

pericnce of at least 5 years 
at a heavy tranport vehiclo 
driver. 


| 
i 


9 . Should be able to oporato 

oll - englac driven pump 
ect . . 


- 


4 . Should be Uterate , mert 

and polito In mannori. 


30 yoan 


Do. 


I . Must be able to understand 

Bimplo engineering draw 
ingo , 


Do. 


.. 


2 . Must have a minimum of 

3 years experience as a 

Hier in any well equip 
ped workshop . 3 . Kupa 
rience as bonch - fitter or 
Mechinlit will bo conui 
dered an additional 

qualification . 
I. A Welder s Diploma from 

Any rccogolocd Iptitute . 
2 . A minimum of 5 year s 

oxporience both of Gas and 
Electric Welding in any 
well equipped and modern 
workshop . 


Do. 


Do. 


Age relaxable . 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Fitter mate in the 
Acelo of Ri , 40 - 2 - 60 


Do. 


I . Must have a Bench Fitter s 

Diploma from recognised 

Institute. 
2 . Musthave minimum of 3 

years experience as Bench 
Fitter in any wollequippod 
and Modern Workahop . 


Do. 


Do. 


Age rolazable: 


Switch Board Attendant in 
ale of Ro . 40 - 60 . 


Do : 


I. Must have an electrician s , 

diploma from any recognised 

Institute , 
2 . Must have minimum of 3 

years experience in test 
in installation and it 
palrt of clectric motora 
instruments and other elec 
tric o quipments . 


890 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1988 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


PART II 


i siisiion 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


Turner 


. 


Do. 


Do. 


Operating latbea, 


100 % 


. 


.. 


.. 


Tractor Drivers 


Do. 


Do. 


Operating farm Tractor 


: 


<0 % 


30 % 


.. 


Senior Carpenter 


Senior Cerpenter 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do . 


I 100 % 


To work as fpenter 
in the Workshop and 
Institute . 


Tube - well Oporator 


Tube-wellOporator 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


To operate Tube - Well 


To operate Tube-Well 


1 100 % 


I 100 % 


. 


. 


. 


Gas -Mistri 


Gas -Mistri 


, 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


To operate planto 


To operate plants 


. 


I 


I 100 % 


100 % 


.. 


.. 


.. 


Tin -Smith . 


Do. 


Do. 


To work as Tin -Smlth 


I 100% 


.. 


.. 


.. 


Head Mistry 


Do . 


Do . 


Maintenanco and over - 


100 % 


.. 


.. 


.. 


haullor of difforent 

chinerles used in 
Gurod Rhodser 
factory etc , 


SEC, 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


891 


10 


Do. 


Do. 


I. Must have a turner s dip - 

loma from any recognised 
Instituto , 


2 . A minimum of 3 years ex 

perience 48 oturnor on 
Heavy Tathos with all goarod 
bead stock in a well equipped 

and modorn workshop . 
3 . Bxporionce a beach fitter 

will be conalderod en 
Additional qualification . 


Do. 


Do. 


1. A minimum of 5 yearg on . 

porlonge in tho operation of 
both wheel and track type 
tractora . 


Aorelaxable if other 

wiec fit. 


Promotion from 
Tractor cleanor 
in the scale of R . . 
40 - 2 - - 60 . 


2 . An olomentary , knowledge 

of the machinism of trac 

tott . 
3 . A good physique . 
4 . A valid liconco for driving 

tractors. 
s . Experience in the handling 

of the certh movtar mi 
chinery and / or possession 
of a valid licence for drly 
iog betyy transport vehicle 
will be considered Allan 
additional quiliAcatlon . 


Do. 


Do , 


I. Must have a mluimum of 

$ young exporlenco 4 . 4 
Carpenter in well equip 
ped and modern workshop 
of In Arm of Cabinot 

miker. 
2 . Must be able to under 

stand simple engincoring 
drawing 


Do , 


Do. 


Bssential. - Must be a qual cd 

Onorel Mechenlc . 
Dosirablar - Threo your og 

pcrianço of erection and 
Oporation of motors 
and pumps of plpe Atting . 


Do . 


Do. 


1 . Brontial. - Must be o que 

lifod general Mochtaic or 

Automobilo Mochwalo . 
1 . Dosirablu . - Threc Yagre 
oxperience of operating 
electric motors, 


25 your 


Do. 


I . Mutt bave A Tin - smith 

diplome from any rocog 
ninad Inutitute . 


Do. 


.. 


2 . Must have a minimum of 3 

youth experience in any 
recogniood workshop . 


3 . Experlonco y copper 

Imith will be in additlonal 
quelification . 


goycaro , 


Essentiel, Must bayt poogcd . 
coure for general machines 
from a recognised Institute 
and must have at least 2 years 
practical Cypericace A 
eneral mechenic in 1 SURAT 
factory of Engineering 

Workshop . 
Dairablı. - Esporlence in the 

orection of machinery. 


892 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


PART II 


1 


Turner Filtter , 


Do. 


Rs. 
90 -2-60-5/2- 73 Operating 


1 


. 


. 


100 % 


. 


Jeep Driver 


, 


Do. 


Do . 


Running of Jeep 


I 100 % 


.. 


.. 


on 


Fittor 


. 


. 


Class IV . 


40 – 2 – 60 


Generally . 48 

Ayolstent. 


] 


2 


50 % 


.. 


50 % 


SwitchB oard 


Do. . 


Do. . General,as an Assise 


I 100 % 


. 


. 


. 


Attendant, 


tant Blectrician , 


Tractor Clonnors 


Do. 


Do. 


2 


50 


. 


50 % 


To help the tractor 

driver in tractor 
malntcnence . 


Gestetner -Operator 


Do. , 


Do . 


To operate the 
Gestetnor Duplicat 
ing Machine . 


100 % 
( To be re 

cruited from 
outsido if 
go oudl 
date by 
promotion 
Vallable ). 


Field man . 


. 


Do. 


. 


5 


50 % 


- 


50 % 


40 - - 1 - 504 1. To work 48 Field 

An under Farm 
Suptd . 

and 
Agronomist . 
2 . To supervise the 

fold work 2 . 
dosired by the 

Farm Superintendent. 
3 . To take work from 

labourers. 
Do . . . Taking ofattondance . 

1 . Preparation of 
Chittu And other 
Allied Item ! . 


Time-keeper 


, 


Do. 


I 


109 90 


Black Smith 


Do. 


Do. . I. To work as 


1 100 % 


. 


. 


14 


Blacksmith 


Suc . 8chb ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


893 


II 


12 


15 


Do. 


Do . 


Do. 


30 Year : 


Do . 


Essential. - Must have a Turner s Do . Ago and qualification Fittor Coolles in the 
Diploma from a recognised 

willnot apply in tho scale of Rs. 30- 35 
Institute . Must have ti 

caso of pormancnt / 
perience of having worked 

Quul Porranont 
both ina Turner and ago 

Fitter Cooling in the 
Fitiet in en Engineering 

scale of Rs. 30 - 1 / 2 - 35, 
Workshop covering a poriod 

of not leng thun 2 years , 
1 . Should posec98 A valid Do. 
licence for driving transport 

Vehicles , 
2 . Must have practical ox 

pericnce of atleast 5 years 
23 C transport vchlcles 
driver . 
3 . Should be able to operate 

oil engine driven pump Beto , 
4 . Should be literato , smart 

and polite in manner . 
1. Must be ablc to understand , 6 months Age relaxable . From workert of 
simple engineering drawings . 

workshop below 
2 . Must have at least 3 years 

scale of Ro. 40 – 1 – 
experience as Bench Fitter 

60 . 
in any well equipped and 

modern workshop . 
I . Must huvo á Wireman s Do. 

licenco and at least 5 ycare 
practical oxporience as a 
wiroman and Switch Board 
Attendant in any largo eloc 

tric engineering concern . 
2. Experience of crection of 

overhead lince will be an 

Additionul qualifications 
I , Must possCNS good 

Do. 

Age relaxable if Promotion from 
physique. 

otherwise ft. 

tractor cleaner in 
2 . Must have worked Aga 

the scale of 
cleaner of motor vehicle for 

Rs. 30 — - 35 . 
i at leant 2 years. 
3 . Possession of valid 
Ucenco for driving tractors 
will be an additional qualifi 
cation . 


2. Muence 
as Benced 
and 


Do. 


Do. 


Vo. 


Do , 


Do 


Ago and Educational Prom Daftry /Pcont 
qualifications re - in tho acelo of 
Texable uptu VIII 35 - 1 - 50 / 30 - - 
Clase pil only . 

35 . 


Essential 
I , Should have passed VIII 

Class cxamination . 
2 . Should po984A9 A certifi 

cate of poriciency in 
operation of Gestetner 

Duplicutora. 
Dosirablo 
3 . Should have at least one 

your experience of operating 

Gestetner Duplicator , 
I . Exporience of work w field 
man , Bupatvision of flod 

for at leust 2 years . 
2 . Should posscal knowledge 

of Agricultural cropping 

specially sugarcunc ctc . 
3 . Should boublo to read 

and write , 


25 Yeart 


Do. , 


. . 


Do. 


From Fiold Atten 

dant, Field Tame 
dara and Field 
counters in the 
scale of Rs. 
35 - 1 - 50 . 


Do, 


Do. 1 


30 years 


Do. 


I. Should have worked 48 

Timc - Ксерег огонсе 
Aspletunt in Government 
Office or priyatc lrm of 
rcpute for at leust thrực 

YCATS. 
2 . Must be middlc pass . 
1 . Must have good physique 
2 . Must have a minidum of 

ѕ уенг8 cxperience 
Blucksmith in Any woll 
cqulppeal and modern 
workshop . 
3 . Must be able to under 

stund simple engincoring 

drawiny. 
4 . Experience A6 & Power 
hummc opcrator will be 
an additional qualiticution . 


! 


Icice 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


:894 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


PART II 


- - - 


Rs. 


Junior Carpenter 


Do. , 


Do. 


I 100 % 


. To work as Carpenter 

in the Workshop and 
Instituto . 


.. 


Storc-mate , 


Do. 


Do. , 


Generally 18 Adblotant 

Store Keopor. 


50 % 


50 % 


Field - Counter 


. 


Do . 


35 - 1 - 50 


3 


50 % . . 


50 % 


.. 


To work in field and 
carrying out the 
schedulod program 
mc of the section , 


Daftry 


. 


Do. , 


Do. . 


To work as Daftry 


. 


1 


50 % 


50 % 


. 


Book Sorter 


Do . , 


Do. . To arrange books, in 


1 


50 % 


.. 


50 % 


. 


receive them , 


Laboratory Atten - 

dant , 


Do. 


, 35 - 1 - 50 


8 


50 % 


. 


50 % 


To work A8 Attendant 
in feld and Le 
boratory . 


Samader(Field ) . 


Do. , 35 — 3~-50 


Supervision of Labour 


100 % 


. 


. 


. 


Field Attendant , 


Do, I 


Do 


, 


5 


100 % 


.. 


To work in field and 
carrying out the 
ochodulodprogrumine 
of tho section 
concoraçd . 
To work as Coolle in 

the Workshop . 


Workshop Coolie 


Do. 


Do. 


. 


. 


. . 


100 % 


Museum Attendant 


Do . 


, 


Do. 


1 


100 % 


... 


To look after the Mu 
geum Articles and 
clean them , 


IO 


II 


Do . 


Do. 


Do . 


1 . Must have a minimum of 

years experionce 19 
Carpenter in well equip 
ped and modern workshop 
or in Arm of Cabinet 

maker . 
2 . Must be able to understand 
olmple engineering Draw 

Ing . 
I. Muot he able to read and 

write English , 
2 . Must know the names and 

be able to recognise 
common enginocring toolo . 


Do, 


Do, 


Do 


From workshop Coollo 

in the cale of 
Rs . 35 - I - 50. 


25 years 


Do. 


From the workers at 
the Farm in scalo 
below R . . 35 - 1 


so . 


I. Should bo VIII Class 6 months 

развеd . 
2 . Experience of cane cultiva 

tion for at least two 

yours, 
3 . An Agricultural Diploma 

holder or High School 
with Agriculture will be 

given preforçnco . 
I. Should be VIII Class 

posted 
2 . Should have worked as 

Daftri In Any Goyt, Оffico 
of a private firm of repute 
for at least two ycart . 


Do , 


Do 


Do . 


From the peoni _ in 
the scale of Re. 
30 - 35 


- 


Do . 


Do , 


Do. 


.. 


Do . 


From tho peong in the 
scalo of Rs. 30 - t 
- 35 


Essential 
Must have pagned VIII 
das In English with 
at least 2 years experience 
of work as book porter of 
should have passed High 
School. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


.. 


Do. 


. 


Dc. 


I . VIII Class Passed 
2 . Should be able to attend 

Laboratory work and 

filed work , 
3 . Should have working ex 

perionce AB Labor 
Fold Coolio or Mato for 
at least 2 yceri. 


Do, 


Do. 


1. VIII Clios paused 

(preferably ). 
2 . Should have worked 88 

Fieldman for at least two 
усяго Іл в Govt. fоrm ог 
privato farm . 


Do. 


Do . 


1. Should be at least VIII 

Clans passed . 
2 . Experience of cand cultiva 

tlon for at least two years . 


Do . 


Do . 


From workshop coolio 

in the walo of 
Rs. 30 - 35 


Do. 


Do. 


1 . Must have good 

phynique. 
2 . Must know the pamce und 
be able to recognise com 

mon Engineering tools . 
Essential. 
I . Must have passed VIII 

Clans. 
2 . Must have at least two 

years experience as attca 
dantin Biological 

Laboratory . 
Deritable -- 
1 . Experience 4 Mupoum 

attendant will be an ad 
ditional qualification , 


haveace 


LoFICA 


- 


Ro . 


Seedling Attendant 


Do. , 


Do. 


, 


To attend the goedling 
and take care of 
thom , 


I 100 % 


.. 


Dark 


Room 


Do. , 


Do. . 


I 100 % 


. . 


Attendant. 


To help the Develops 

ing and printing of 
photographs. 


Cattlo Attondant . 


Do. 


, 


30 – 4 – 35 


2 


100 % 


. . 


To attend the cattles 

Ag directed by the 

Farm Superintendent, 
To drive tho Tonga 


Tonge Driver 


Do. , 


Do. , 


I 100 % 


. . 


Ploughman 


. 


o. . 


Do. · Ploughing , and other 


12 


100 % .. 


. 


. 


Craft duties, 


Phenumatic Ham 

mer Operator 


Do. , 


Do . , Operating Hammer , 


I 


109 % 


. . 


Store Coolle 


, 


Do . 


Do . . 


I 


100 % 


. . 


I. Workas Storo Coolle 

under the Storo 
Kecper. 
2 . To 188ue matoriala , 

tool. implemento 
etc , as per logtruc 
tions of the Store 
Keeper. 


watohunan ( Crop ) 


Do , 


Do . 


. Watching of Institute s 

property . 


8 


100 % 


. . 


Truck-Cleaner . 


Do. , 


Do. . 


To help the truck 


I 100 % 


. 


delyer . 


cone 


. 


Do. . 


Do. . To work in the section 


17 100 % 


. 


. 


. 


concerned as pcoп . 


Chowkidor . 


- 


Do. . 


Do. 


To Watch and Ward the 

Govt. property . 


12 


100 % 


. 


Workshop Coolle 


Do. . 


Do. . 


To work as Coolielo 
tho Workalop 


1 


100 % 


. . 


Sro. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958, ASVÍNA 19 , 1880 


897 


IO 


II 


11 


12 


2 


14 


- - 


- 


do . 


VIII Clas8 pagged with at least 

two ycare cxperience of Ag 
ricultural Farmi Operations. 


30 y¢ın 


Essential. Should ho VIII 

C1. 9 . 
Desirable . Should huve work 

ing experience of develop 
ing ind printing of 
photograph for at least onc 

year. 
Should have worked for two 

years as Animal Keeper in 
@ Govt. or Privute Dairy . 


25 yeon 


do 


I . Must know the art of drly 

ing and maintaining the 

Horse and Tooga . 
2 . Should also poses the 

driving licence . 


do . 


do . 


Should have experience of 

working us Agricultural la 
bourers Specially plough 
nien for at least two years . 


do . 


I. Must posaç a good phy- 

Sigue , 
2 . A minimum of 3 yeart ce 
perience 98 : power ham 
mer operator in any well 
equipped and modern 
workulion . 
Experience as black -amitli 
will be considered as an 
alditional qualification . 


do . 


do . 


Should be atleurt VIJI Class 

passed and should have ex 
perience of working .is Store 
Allendunt, Store nate 
or Coolie , in any store 
of Govt. office or private 

firm for utleast two yeras . 
2 . Should have the knowledge 

of understanding the store 
articles. 


do . 


1 . Should have worked either 

in Govt. Ollise or unv pri 
Vyte firm nya Chowkidur 

for at least two yeur , 
2 . Good Physique. 


I . Good physique 
2 . Should have worked as a 

Peon either in Govt office 
or private firm for at least 
2 years. 


I. Should have passed VIII 

Class . 
2 . Should have worked as 

Peon cither in Govt. ofilcc 
Or private firm for utcaat 
1 years , 


do . 


1 . Should havc experience of 

working as Chowkider 
cither in Govt. Office or 
private firm or mills for 
ut lcast 2 years . 


1. Must have a good physique , 


do. 


2 . Must know the names and 

be able to recognige com 
mon Engineering tools, 


898 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART 11 


- 


Storo Attendant , 


Do. 


30 - 35 
3510 


Working 48 

Attendent. 


Store 


1 


R . 
100 % 


. 


Fitter Coolie 


. 


Do. 


, 30 - 1 - 35 


To usist the Head 
Mlotri and Fitter , 


I 


100 % 


. . . 


Paruh 


Do. , 


I 100 % 


.. 


.. 


. 


Do. • To clean omice tables 

and chairs. 
1 . To superylso clean 
Ing rooms and the 

bullding by sweepers 
3 . To be responsible 

for oponing and clor 
ing of offico roomi 

etc . 
Do. . To work as Gardener 


Muli 


Do. . 


, 


I 


100 % 


.. 


Sweeper 


. 


. 


Do. 


Do. . 


To clean the door 
rooms and building 
of the Institute . 


3 100 % 


.. 


. 


" 


3 


100 % 


.. 


Undor Gur Grading Schomd. 
Rescarch Assistant Non - 

Gazetted 
Non 
Ministerial 
Class III . 


160 — 10 — 330 To 18jat sectional 

officer in the 
oxecution of fe 

earch project rclat 
ing to Gur And 
Khadsari. 


Sample Collector 


Do. 


I 


100 % 


. . 


, 60 - 3 - 81- - To collect gur simples , 
EB4- 123 

5 - 130 
. 80- 5 -120 
80 - 5 -120 Field 

Pield and 

and Labour 

Labour 
- EB - 8 duties 
200 — 10 /2 — 
220 . 


Do . 


2 


100 % 


Junior Research 

Asslattat. 


. . 


Nore . — (a ) Apell mit relaxable for direct recruitment in favour of exceptional categories of penon , . .. ., Schodulo 
(0 ) Appointmentmade otherwloc than by promotion shall be subiect to the order regarding communal coprosonta 


* EC . (1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ AŚVINA 19, 1880 


899 


II 


tz 


14 


15 


- 


do. 


do . 


Paused VIII Standard and 

experience of handling 
dlfiorent types of stores , 
Muut know cycling. Pre 
fertAco will be given to 
perons with higher edu 

cational qualifications. 
Essential. Should have a 

Fitter s Diploma or 2 ycard 
practical Cxperience of 
Working Fitter Coolit in 

Suyar Factory of work 
shop . 


do. 


do . 


do . 


do 


Should have worked either in 

407 Govt. office or private 
firm 48 Frath for wbout 
yeur. 


3 . your 


Experience in gardening for 

tbtco yder , 


do . 


25 years 


Should have worked as Swet 

per for about two years . 


30 years 


I year 


Bosswital. Master s of cqui. 

Valont Honours degree in 
Chemistry on Dorte in 
Science followed by 
Diplomu in Sugar Tochno 
100 from rocogniood 

Intitution . 
Dostrable . Reporience of 

Aplysis of imples . 
Essauial, Dorce 1o Science 

with Chemistry of Indus 

trixi Chomlotry . 
Essential. B . Sc. with Chemlatry 
Distrabla , 2 ytan experienco 
of lab. Work , proforably la 
Sugar /or Khandaard Puc 
tory . 


23 year ! 


do . 


Cutes / Tribon , Duplaced ponions, etc , to the extent granted by the Govt. of India, Ministry of Homo Affairs . 
tion lexued by the Govt . of Imle, Ministry of Home Affairs , from to time to time, 

[No. 4 -65 / 57.9 .Cane Instt .] 


goo 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : October 11, 1958,ÁSVINÁ 19 , 1880 


Part 11 


New Delhi, the 4th October 1958 


G . S . R . 936 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 
8 of the Central Civil Seryices ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957, 
the President hereby directs that the following further uniendments shall be made 
in the notification No. S . R . O . 2235 , dated the 14th June, 1957 , of the Government 
of India , in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture ( Departnient Oi Agriculture ) 
namely : 


In the said notification , 
(I ) Under Head . (a ) Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research .- - 
( a ) in sub -head ( i ) Central Civil Posts , Class I, after the entry " Agrono 

mist" , the entry " Gur Chemist " shall be inserted ; and 
(b ) in sub -head (ii) Central Civil Posts , Class II, after the entry " Assis 

tant Entomologist" , the entry " Soil Survey Officer ( Non -ministerial) " 

shall be inserted ; 
( 2) Under Head (b ) Sugarcane Breeding Institute , 
in sub -head ( ii ) Central Civil Posts, Class II, after the entry " Entomolo 

gist” , the entry " Assistant Entomologist non -ministeriul) ” shall be 
inserted . 


[No. 4 -56 / 58. SS . Canc Instt.] 
S . D . UDHRAIN , Under Secy . 


Sec. $ (i ] 


THE GAZÉTTE OF INDIA ; OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


got 


- - - 


- - 


(Department of Agriculture ) 
New Delhi, the 3rd October 1958 


G . S . R . 937. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 
09 of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules for recruit 
nient to the General Central Service Class III and IV posts at the Tractor Training 
Centre , Budni (Madhya Pradesh ) , namely : 
HE GENERAL CENTRAL SERVICE CLASS III AND IV POSTS ( TRACTOR 

TRAINING CENTRE , BUDNI) RULES , 1958 , 
1. Short title and commencement. - (i ) These rules may be called the General 
entral Service Class III and IV posts (Tractor Training Centre , Budni) Rules , 


58. 


(il ) They shall come into force at once . 
2 . Method of recruitment.- - Recruitment to the General Central Service Class 
I and IV posts at the Tractor Training Centre, Budni (Madhya Pradesh ) , shall 
· made in accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule hereto 
inexed . 


902 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1988 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


Dagt ti 


ur 


. 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


Scale 


Name of 

portt 


of 


Dutici 


Pay 


Its classification 

whother 
Fazetted or 
non - gazetted 

and whether 
Ministrlal or 

non 
Ministrial. 


No, Percontago of posta to bo filled by 
of 
posts Direct Promotion Transfera 

recrult - - 
ment by Senio 

solcc - rity 
tion cum - fit 

пев 
7 8 9 


1 


I . Trololog 

Assistent, 


by 


Class III Non - Ro. 
Fazetted Non - 200 - 10 
Ministeţial. 300 


I , To import instruc 

tions to the trainees on 
the maintenance , ope 
tation , repairt and 
proper use of tractors 
and other Farm 
machinery . 


direct 
fecruit - 
ment. 


50 % by 
transfer o 
qualified 
persoanel 
from CTO 
of other 
Dopart 
ments . 


2 . To impatt instruction 

In farm praclices and 
their actualApplication 
in the field ctc , 


3 . To umot Officer In 
charço , Tractor Train 
ing Centre , by under 
tekin such duties 
from time to time as 
may in the opinion of 
the Officer Incharge be 
required to run the 
Institution , 


6 


. . 


2 . Shop and Clas III R . . 100 — 

Field Mo- Non - gazetted - 125 
chanic , Non -Minis 

- - I 
toial. 


1. Running ropain , ad - 

justments, mainte 
nonco und operation of 
tractors and equip 
ment in the field , 


25 % by 

dirtet 
recruit 
шепt. 


2 . Major overhauling 

and repair to tractor 
and Farg machinery 
in the workohop . 


78 % by 

transfer of 
Junior 
Mechanic 
by Solec 
tion from 
CTO out of 
those who 
buvo put 
in at least 3 
yr , servicc 

Jr . Ma 
chrenic . 


3 . Handling and correc 

tion of precision tools 
connected with heavy 

repairs etc . 
4 . To mulut Omicer In 

chargo, T . T . C . by 
undertaking such du . 
tiçi from time to 
time 48 may in the 
opinion of the O I / C 
be required to run the 

Institution , 
. Rs. 30 - 1 - To cook meals for the 

trainces , To perform 
such general duties as 
the Oficor Incharge 

TTC MAY detail him 
from time to time to 
run the instituttion , 


3 . Cook 


. 


Claw IV 


3 


35 


100 % by 
direct 
recruit - 
mont, 


4 . Watermen 


Clan IV 


- do 


To procure and supply 
water at the Centre . 


3 


- do 


NOTg . - The upper age limit prçiçribed for direct recruitment shall be relaxed in the caso of Scheduled Custei) 

inued from time to timeby the Government of India , Ministry of Home Affairs , 


SEC. i)) 


THẺ GAZETT OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1959/ 4svINA 19, 1986 


903 . 


DUT 


Age 
limits 


For direct recrultmont only 

For promotion / Transfor only 

Whether agcond oducr - Oredes /sources from 
Educational or other Period of tional qualification which promotion 
quolincations required probation if prescribed for direct transfers are to be 
any recruitment will apply 

made . 
in case of appointment 
by promotion / transfor 


Compositions 
of D . P . C . 


10 


I 


Iz 


13 


12 


IS 


сто 


25 - 30 years 
relaxable by 
the appoint 
ing autho 
rity . 


A liplomilor de rce in one yegr 
mechanical or auto 
niile or Glectricul 
Engineering or 
degree in Agriculture 
with Agri. EngB , AK 
ono of the publects 
or its equlvalent 
with s year field or 
shop experience . 
Ability to exproas 
themselves and i 
Hound knowledge of 

fundamentals . 


(1 ) Ago limit prescrihed Prom Charreman 
for direct recrultmont working In CTO 
will not upply in In tho grade of 
cage of appointment R . , 20010300 
made by transfer, while in the case of 

other departments 
( 2 ) E lucational quali - from personnel 

fication will be re fulfilling the pre 
lexablo Rt tho disore crlbod qualifice 
tion of the appoiat tions . 
ing authority . 


DESIRABLE 
Toching experience . 


one year ! 


- do 


20 - 25 re 
Taxablo by 
appointing 
authority , 


From Junior mech - 
pics working in 

the Cro . 


A constituted 
by the Com 
potent autho 
rity . 


A certificate of recog- 
nised course of 
training in shop me 
chanics or sto lo yrs . 
Practical experience 
in large concerns 
dosling with over 
houl repairs to trac 
tors Rutomotivos 
and Agri. quip 
ment in large organi 
sations like CTO . 
Should be ablo to 
road And writo 
English with 1omo 
proficiency . 


19 - 23 


Banantial : previu ex - 6 monthu. 

pericpco in lino, 
Should proforably 
know on Indian 
language . 


- do 


- do 


Egnontlal : previous CI 

perience in lino. 
Should proferably 
read and write one 
Indian language . 


Scheduled Tribes, displaced persons und other special categories in accordance with the general order 

[No. 4 - 3 / 68 -MY.] 
GURBACHAN SINGH , Under Secy . 


96 . 


THE CÁZETTE OF INDIÁ : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


PART It 


= 


= 


( Department of Arriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 6th October 1958 ! 
G .S . R . 938 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 52 of the Agri 
cultural Produce (Development and Warehousing) Corporations Act, 1956 ( 28 of 
1956 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following further amendments 
in the Agricultural Produce (Development and Warehousing ) Corporations Rules , 
1956 , namely : 
In the said Rules : 
( 1 ) in rule 6 , in sub -rulc ( 1 ) , after the words “ from the date on which it 

is acropted " , the words " by the Central Government or on the 
expiry of a period of one inonth from the date of its receipt by the 

Central Government, whichever is earlier " shall be inscrted ; 
( 2 ) in rulo 13 , after the words " Exccutive Committcc " at the end , the 

words " or on the expiry of a period of one month from the date of 

its rcccpi by the Secretary , whichever is earlier " shall be inserted ; 
( 3 ) in lule 32 , in sub - rule (3 ), the last sentence shall be omitted . 

No. 1 - 9 /56 - Coop . I. ] 
R . VENGU , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 
(Departments of Communications & Civil Aviation ) 

New Delhi, the 24th September 1958 
G . S . R . 939 , -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 4 and 7 of the 
Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 ( 13 of 1885 ) , and in supersession of all existing orders 
on the subject , the Central Government hereby makes the following rules for 
the conduct of Wireless telegraph transmitting and reliving stations, in the 
amateur service , established , maintained or worked in India by persons licensed 
under the said Act. 

RULES 
1. Short title and Commencement.- ( i) Thesc rules may be called the Indian 
Wireless Telegraphy (Amateur Service ) Rules , 1958 . 

( 11 ) They shall come into force on the 1st day of Janılary 1959 . 
2 . Definitions. - In these rules , unless the context otherwisc requires: 
(i ) " amateur service " means a service of solf training intercommunication and 

technical investigatlous carried on by amateurs that is , by persons duly 
authorised under thesc rules interested in racia technique solely with 

a personal aim and without pecuniary interest ; 
( ii) " amateur linic" means a licence for a type of wireless telegraph 

transmitting and receiving station in the amateur service ; 
( iii ) " wireless telegraphy" or " radio telegraphy " includes wircless lelephony 

or radio telephony. 
3 . Necessity for licence , - No person shall opcrate an Amateur wireless telegraph 
Slation except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the appro 
priate licence under these rules. 

4 . Categories of Amateur Licenses. There shall be two categories of licences in 
tlie amateur service , namely : 

(1) Amateur Wireless Telegraph Station Licence, Gradc I; 
( 11) Amateur Wireless Telcgraph Station Lirence , Grade II, 


5 . Application for licenco. - Every application for a licence , whether Grade I or 
Grade II , shall be made to the Central Government in Annexure 1 and shall be 
accompanied by an undertaking to the clfect that the transmitting apparatus shall 
be operated in accordance with these rules and that the installation shall not be 
made accessible to any unauthorised person at any tline. 


Sec . 3 (1)] 


THE GALETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVİNA 19, 1880 


005 


6 . Eligibility for licence. -- A person who 

( a ) is a citizen of India , 
( b ) is not less than 18 years of age, and 
( c ) is in possession of a valid first, second or special class Radio Telegraph 

competency issued by the Director General, Posts & Telegraphs or 
the Central Government or has passed the examination for Amateur 
Central Governemnt or has passed the examination for Amateur 
Station Operator s Certificate ,** Grade I or Grade II , as the case may 

be, 
shall be eligible for a licence ; 

Provided that: 
(i ) The Central Government may grant a licence to nationals of foreign 

countries subject to such conditions as it may determine; 
( ii ) applications from bona fide experimenters between the ages of 16 and 

18 years may be considered for the grant of amateur licence (Grade II ) , 
if they are accompanied by a certificate from the head of the educa 
tional institution attended by the candidate or from his legal 
guardian that the applicant is interested in and competent to con 
duct experiments in wireless telegraphy and if they are otherwise 

qualified ; 
( iii ) a Grade II license shall not be granted to an amateur club . 
* The syllabi for the examinations for both the grades of the certificate are 

printed as Appendix I and Appendix II. 
7. Grant of Licence. - Every licence, Grade I or Grade II , shall be in the form in 
Annexure II. 

8 . Period of validity . - A licence granted under these rules shall be valid upto 
the 31st December of the year in which it is granted : 

Provided that a licence issued between the 1st November and the 31st December 
of any year shall be valid up to the 31st December of the following year . 

9 . Fee. - A fee of Rs. 15 / - shall be payable for a licence in Grade I and of Rs. 10 / 
for a licence in Grade II . The fee shall be paid to the Central Government on 
receipt of instructions from that Government and in the manner directed by it. 
No holder of a licence shall be entitled to a refund of fees paid therefor on the ground 
of his inability to make full use of the license . 

10. Renewal of licence . - A licence may be renewed for one year at a time on 
payment of a fee of Rs. 15 / - or Rs. 10 / - as the case may be. An application for 
renewal shall be made at least one month before the expiry of the licence and the 
fee shall be paid along with the application . It shall not be obligatory for the 
Central Government to send a notice to the licensee to pay the renewal fees . 

Provided that a licence in Grade II shall not be renewed if it has been in force 
for a total period of three years. 

11. Loss of licence . In the event of loss of a licence , the licensee shall 
immediately send a report to the Central Government of the circumstances in which 
the licence was lost . 

12 . Duplicate licence .- -Where a licence is lost, a duplicate licence may be granted 
on payment of a fee of Rs. 5 / 
13 . Cancellation of licence .--- A licence may be cancelled, if 

( 1) the licence is lost on account of the negligence of the licensee , or 
( 2 ) it has not been renewed , or the renewal fee not paid , within the prescribed 

time; 
Provided that, before cancelling a licence , the licencee shall be given an 
opportunity to make his objections. 

14 . Licence when transferable , - A licence shall not be transferable ; but the 
Central Government may permit the transfer of a Grade I licence granted to the 
Executive Officer of a Wireless Telegraph Amateur Club in favour of his successor, 
if such successor is eligible to hold a Grade I license . 


P 


006 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1988 / ASVINÁ 19, 1880 


Part It 


15 . Operation of Station . - No person other than the licensee shall operate an 
Amateur Wireless Telegraph Station : 

Provided that 
( a ) in the presence of the licensee himself, the station may be operated by 

another licensee holding a valid grade I or grade II licence . 
(b ) the amateur wireless telegraph station established by a person in his 

capacity as an executive of a amateur Wireless Telegraphy club may 
also be operated by a person holding a valid first, second or special class 
Radio Telegraph Operator s Certificate and license or non -commercial 
certificate of competency or an Amateur Station Operator s Certificate 
(Grade I) or an Amateur Station Operator s Certificate (Grade II ) with 
the prior permission of the Central Government in writing , in respect 

of every such person . 
16 . Surrender of license . - A licence which is cancelled or which has expired shall 
be surrendered to the Central Government. 

17 . Only one licence to be granted . - No person shall be granted more than one 
Licence at a time: 

Provided that the Central Government may relax this rule in the case of a person 
who is the Executive Officer of an amateur club and who is eligible to hold a 
licence in Grade I . 

18 . Penalty for breach of these rules . - Any breach of these rules , other than a 
breach which is an offence under sections 20 or 21 of the Indian Telegraph Act, 
1885 , shall be punishable with fine which may extend : 
( 1) when the person is licensed under the Indian Telegraph Act , 1885 , to one 

thousand rupees and in the case of a continuing breach a further fine 
of two hundred rupees for every day after the first during the whole 

or any part of which the breach continues ; 
( li ) when a servant of the person so licensed or another person is punishable 

for the breach , to one fourth of the amounts specified in clause ( 1) . 


ANNEXURE I 
Application for a licence to establish , maintain and work an amateur wireless 
telegraph station , 

(See Rule 5 ) 


1. Name of applicant ( In Block Capitals) : 
Address : 
Age: 
Occupation : 
Nationality ( evidence of nationality and two written references as to character 

should be enclosed ) . 
Father s name & home address : 


2 . Scientific qualification ( if any ) of applicant, Particulars of any experience in 

working wițeleg telegraph transmitting apparatus, 
Particulars of certificates of Competency as wireless operator held by applicant, 
Speed at which applicant can send and receive in the Morse Code. 
Particulars of Amateur License, if any, held by the applicant. 
Particulars of previous applications , if any , made by the applicant for issue of 
Amateur Licence . 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- - 


3 . Type of licence applied for: 

Amateur wireless telegraph station licence (Grade I) . 
Amateur Wireless telegraph station Licence (Grade II). 


say THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 907 

-- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - 
. Particulars of apparatus to be used : 
( a ) Transmitting : - 

The trade name of the set in the case of a standard set bearing a recognised 

trade name, (Diagrams to be furnished and attached to this form ) . 
(b ) Receiving: 
( c) Antenna - 

( including sketch & dimensions and means of support ). 
5 . (1) Power in watts to be used for transmission (A ), 

(il ) Maximum watts at input to aerial (if measured ). 
( lii) Source of power supply ( B ). 
( a ) Measured at Input 

. .. . . .. .. . Amperes .. .. . . 
( b ) D / C or A / C . . ......... 
( c ) Cycles per second ( A / C ) . . . . . . . 
| Volts . . . .. 

....... Emperes .... ....... 
(b ) D / C or A / C ........ 
(c ) Cycles per second ( A / C ) .............. 

- - - - - - - - 
( A ) Power is measured at the input to the anode circuit of the Anal RF 
amplifier . 

( B ) If batteries are used , state kind : 
( In the case of secondary cells. state capacity and maximum discharge rate . If 

a local generator is used , state maximum power available , voltage and type 
of current (AC / DC ) and in the case of AC , state periodicity also . If com 
mercial mains power source type employed , maximum power available , 
voltage and type of current ( AC /DC ) and in the case of AC , state periodicity 
also ) . 


Volts . 


- - - - 


- - 


- - - - 


- - - - -- 


- 


- - - - - - - 


- - 


- 


- - - - 


8 . Exact location of station : 


7. Frequencies it is desired to use. 


Transmitting . . 


Kc). 


Kc/8 
Kc/8 
Kc/8 
Kc;8 


Receiving 


Kc s 


- 


- - - - 


- - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


Transmitting 


8 . Frequency range over which apparatus is 

capable of being adjusted . 


Kc/s 
Kcis 
Kc/s 
Kc/s 
Kc/s 
Kc/s 


Receiving 


NU 


9 . Centre at which the applicant desires to be examined in his proficiency as Amateur 
Wireless Ştation Operator : 

(Grade I) . 
(Grade II ) . 


BOMBAY / CALCUTTA /DELHI/MADRAS /NAGPUR . 


908 


1 I GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


DECLARATION 


I undertake to observe the conditions of the licence and hereby ccrtify that the 
apparatus herein described can and will be worked in accordance with the pro 
visions of the Indian Wireless Telegraphy (Amateur Service ) Rules, 1958. 

Signature of Appltant . . ... .. . .. ..... . .......... 


Date ... ... . ... 


DECLARATION TO OBSERVE SECRECY 

... do solemnly and sinccrcly declare that I will 
not, without authorisation , divulge to any person the purport of any message , 
other than a megsage intended for the general use of the public , which I may 
transmit or receive by means of any radiotelegraph or radio -telephone apparatus 
operated by me or which may come to my knowledge in r onnection with the 
Operation of the said apparatus, 
Place 

Signature of Declarant . .. . ........ ..... 
Witness . . . . . . . . 

Date . . . . . . . . . . 
This application , when completed , should be forwarried to the Adviser , Wireless 
Planning & Coordination , Ministry of Transport and Communications, Govern 
ment of India , New Delhi. 

ANNEXURE II 


Licence No. 

Dated , New Delhi, the 
INDIAN TELEGRAPII ACT, 1885 
Licence to establish , maintain and work un Amateur Wireless Telegraph 

Station in India 

(See Rule 7) 
Shri . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . is hereby licensed to establish , 
maintain and work & wireless telegraph transmitting and receiving station in the 
Amateur Service as per details stated below . 

The license is granted under the authority of Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph 
Act , 1885 . 

The license is governed by the Indinn Wireless Telegraphy ( Amateur Service) 
Rules , 1958 . 
Particulars of the licence 

( 1) Type of the licence granted in the Amateur Service 
( 11 ) Location of the Station 
( 111) Authorised operators 
( lv ) Call Sign 

- - - 
Power Allotted bands for 
Amateur Service 

Designation of 
(Kc/ s ) Frequencies 

emission 
(Kr / s ) 

permitted 
- - - - - .. .--- 

Issued on hehalf of the Central Government. 

Wireless Planning & Coordination , 
Ministy of Transport & Communications, 
(Departments of Commns, & Civ . Aviation ) 

- - - -- --- - -- -- - - - 
Instructions, — To establish , maintain or work an Amateur Station without a 
valld Jirence or the failure to comply with any conditions of the licence constitutes 
an effenre under the Indian Telegraph Art, 1885. 

2 Prior normission of the central Government should be obtained before the 
station is established at a new arddress the licenre should be sent to the Central 
Government for mendment of the address in such case , 


- - - 


- 


wer 


- - 


11, 


19 , 


3 . Use of Supply Mains. It power for the working of the wireless station is 
taken from a public electricity supply whether or not a battery eliminator is used , 
no direct connection should be made between the supply mains and the aerial, 

4 . This licence does not cover reception of broadcast programme. ( Broadcast 
Receiving Licence of the appropriate category may be obtained .) 


5 . Copyright, — This licence does not authorise the Licensee to do any act which 
is an infringement of any copyright which may exist in the matter transmitted , 

6 . Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to relieve the licensee of any 
responsibility for any infringement of patent rights which may be incurred by the 
use of the licensed apparatus. 


CONDITIONS OF THE AMATEUR WIRELESS TELEGRAPH STATION LICENCE 

(GRADE I & GRADE II ) 
I. Radio -telegraph Conventions. — The licensee shall comply with the provisions 
of the International Telecommunication Convention in force relating to amateur 
Stations 


II . Power and Frequencies . - The power measured at the input to the anode 
circuit of final HF. amplifier shall not exceed that specified against each band in 
the licence. The communications shall be sent only by the type of emission 
designated and on the frequency or frequencies within the bands specified in the 
licence . 

III. Frequency Control and Measurement. - - The station shall be equipped for 
reception as well as transmission . The transmitting apparatus shall invariably be 
tuned as accurately as possible to the particular authorized frequency on which 
it is proposed to send , and for this purpose there shall be kept at the station , and 
used whenever neressory ( and on all occasions when the frequency used for send 
ing is changed ), a reliable instrument of an approved type for measuring the 
frequencies of the emissions from the station . The licensee shall take all practic 
able steps to maintain the accuracy of such measuring instrument, 

IV . Non - interference. The station shall be used in such a manner as not to 
cause interference with other stations outside the authorised bands . Sending shall 
at once be discontinued or postponed at the request of any Government or Com 
merr al station 

When tele ? ? ??phy is bring used the arrangement employed for keying the 
sender shall Bbc Surhus to rerilure to a minimum the risk of interference due to 
key clicks being prorimi in neighbouring apparatus . Whenever for any reason , 
the carrier wave of the sender is being modulated by any system of modulation 
care shall be taken to ornirl evermodulation . Particular care must he taken to 
avoid unwanteil fremurncy modulation of the carrier frequency . At all times 
every precaution shall loro taken to prevent the radiation of energy at frequencies 
other than those which are necessary for the type of emission in use . The use 
c spank sending app ? ratus is specifically forbidden , 

V . Sending periods. - - The station may be operated at any time, provided that 
nu period of sending shall exceed 10 conserutive minutes . Sending shall not 
commence without listening on the frequency which is to be used in order to 
asrnutrin , as far as possible , whether interference is likely to be caused thereby 
to any oth " olin Thich may be working . 

VI. Log.- A running record shall be kept in a bound book , of all transmissions 
( See condition II) , in the following proforma; 


No gaps shall be left between entries in the log : 


Date 


Time 


Type of 
emisslon 


Freg . 


From 


To 


Record of tests or 

Experiments 


Signature 


— 


. 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


- - - 


910 


. 


VII . Receiver -- The station shall always be equipped for the reception of signals 
bent on frequencies in current use at the station at any time by means of con 
linuous wave telegraphy, telephony and any other type of emission authorized in 
Condition II. 

VIII. ( a ) Messages . Communications shall be sent only to stations which are 
actually cooperating in the Licensee s experiments . They may be sent to such 
amateur station in this country and also in countries abroad ( except where the 
Administration of a country has prohibited communications of this nature). Com 
munication shall be in plain language and limited to messages of ( 1) a technical 
nature relating to tests and ( ii ) to remarks of a personal character for which , by 
reason of their unimportance recourse would not normally be made to the public 
telecommunication systems. Special gramophone records for reproducing modula 
ticns of other types of definite tones may be used for test purposes. Gramophone 
records may also be used on the condition that only one such record is used during 
the course of any day and the period of any transmission shall be limited as in 
condition (VI) . 


(b ) The use of the apparatus for sending false or misleading calls , or signals . 
news, advertisements , communications of business statements on topics of political 
or industrial controversy or Any matter which is indecent or obscene or of a sedi 
tious tendency or such as is likely to arouse racial, religious, or rommunal animo 
sity . messages for pecuniary reward or any messages for, or on behalf of, a third 
party is expressly forbidden . Messages like the reproduction of broadcast pro 
grammes or transmissions of entertainment value shall not be sent over the 
licensed apparatus. 

(c ) The Licensee shall not receive any payment ( either direct or indirect ) for 
the use of the station or allow the station to be controlled by or used for the pur 
poses of any social or political organization , 


TX , Secrecy of Correspondence . 11 any message which the Licensee is not 
entitled to receive is , nevertheless , received the Licensee shall not make known 
or allow to be made known its contents , its origin or destination , its existence or the 
tart of its receipt to any person ( other than Aduly authorised Oncer of the 
Central Government or a competent legal tribunaly and shall not reproduce in 
writing . copy or make any use of such message or allow the same to be reproduced 
in writing. copied or made use of. 

X . Call Signal . - The prefx or nationality , 1 e . " VU " shall invariably be included 
in the call sign which may be sent either morse telegraphy at a speed not greater 
than (.. .. .... ........... ) words per minute or telephonically if the station is authorized 
to use telephony . 

The call signal shall he sent for identification purpose at the beginning and at 
the end of each period of sending. 

In calling another station the all signal of that station shall be sent and may 
he repeated throughout a period of not more than one minute . after which the 
signal " DE " shall be sent once and the call signal of the calling station three 
times . This procedure may be repeated but the time taken in calling ghall not 
exceed three minutes without an interval during which the operator shall listen 
in the band of frequencies in which the call has been made, 

In answering a call the call signal of the calling station shall be sent three 
times , the signal " DE " once and call signal of the answering station three times . 

The use of the general call " CQ " is permitted . The word " test" followed by 
word Irom of the procedure signa ] " DE " and the rall signal of the Licensee s 
station may he sent nut when essential for the Licensee s experiments , but this 
method of calling shall not be continued in any case when a reply is not recelved 
from another experimental station within 15 minutes . 

When telephony is used the letters of the call signals mav he confirmed by the 
nronunciation of well-known words of which the initial letters are the same as 
those in the call signals but words used in this manner shall not be of facetious 
character nor be capable of undesirable misinterprctation . 

XI. Inspection . The station shall be subtent to the approval of the Central 
Government and together with the license and the rerord of transmissions shall 
be coen to inspection at all timne hy duly authorised offrers of the Central Govern 
ment who shall prove their identity on request , . Record of transmissions, this 


Szc. 3(1)] 


THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 


911 


1 


SS 


license , and any other data or information pertaining to the station shall be sent 
10 the Central Government, whenever called upon to do so . 

XII. Aerial. - Aerial installations shall not cause hazard to flight of aircraft 
and their heights shall be within the limits specified in Annex 10 to the Conven 
tion an International Civil Aviation published by the Internationul Civil Aviation 
Organisation . If the Central Government so directs , the licensee of an amateur 
station shall install and maintain beacon lights on and paint the masts of the 
station . The jobs shall be execuisd in the manner plusuribed by Govt. and at 
the cost of the licensee . An aerial which crosses above or is liable to fall upon 
or to be blown on to an overhead power wire ( including electric lighting and 
traitway wires ) or power apparatus shall be guarded to the reasonable satisfaction 
of the owner of the power wire or power apparatus concerned . 

XIII. Control in Energency. -- ( a ) If and whenever in the opinion of the Central 
Government a situation shall have arisen in which it is expedient for the public 
Service that the Central Government shall have control ov : r thc sending of 
messages liv means of the station , it shall be lawful for them to direct and cause 
the station to he taken possession of and 10 rirect any duly authorized person to 
wart the apparatus in any manner thought fit and to prevent the Licensee from 
using it and for these purposes or any of them to cause any part of or all the 
apparatus forming the station to be removed to such place as they may think fit 
anc any person authorizert hy them , may from time to time enter the premises at 
which the station is maintained for any sinh purpose as aforesaid . 


b ) The Licensee shall not be entitled to any compensation in respect of the 
exercise by the Central Government of the powers conferrer! by this condition , 
which shall remain in force notwithstanding the withdrawal or modification of 
the license. 

XIV . ( a ) The Lirensce shall not assign , under -let or otherwise dispose of or 
adorit any person to partiripate in the benents of this license . 

(t ) The Licensee shall indemnify the Central Government against all actions , 
Chaitris and demands which may be brought or made by any person , body corporate 
or company in respect of any injury arising from any act licensed or permitted by 
this license 

Kay The Central Government may by notice in writing but without assigning 
airy reason revoke and determine these presents or modify them at any time. 
either by specific notice in writing sent to the Licensee by registered letter post 
at the address given in the License , or by means of a general notice in the oficial 
grzytę addressed to any or all holders of licenses for Amateur Wircless Stations. 

( d ) In the cvent of revocation or cancellation , no part of any fee paid in respect 
of the current year will he returned . 

XV . The decision oť the Central Government in any matter relating to the 
ficerse shall be Anal. 

APPENDIX I 
The examination for the Amateur Station Operator s Certificate (Grade I) 
shall romprise In : 
( i) ability to send and rereive correctly by ear messages in plain language 

in the international morse code at 12 words per minute; 
( il) Khoirledge of radio theory and practice; and 
( iii) Knowledge of regulations applicable to radio communication and opera 

tion of amateur stations. Knowledge of prevention of interferenc : 
(articles 42 and 43 of the Atlantic City Radio Remulations and paras 

1 - 17 of Section XXVI of Indian Wireless Instructions Vol. II ). 
For the purpose of assessing the receiving ability of the applicant, the tesi 
examination will be made for five minutes at the prescribed speed and if th . 
applicant recrives the materini transmitted correctly for a continuous period o 
one minute during the transmission , he shall be considered to be successful in th : 
test. 

For tests as under item ( ii) and ( ill ) above. a candidate may have to appea . 
for written and /or oral examination . 

I fee of Rupees ten sha]] he charged for the purpose of this examination , 

A fertiAcate shall be awarded to the sucressful candidate in the proforma showi 
in Appendix III . 


012 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ ASVINA 19 , 1880 [PART II 

- - - - - - - - - - 
APPENDIX II 
The examination for the Amateur Station Operator s Certificate (Grade II ) 
shall comprise in :- - 
( i) ability to send and receive correctly by ear messages in plain language 

in the international morse code at Ave words per minute ; 
(il ) elementary knowledge of radio theory and practice ; ana 
( Ili) elementary knowledge of regulations applicable to radio communica 

tion and operation of amatcur stations. 
For the purpose of assessing the receiving ability of the applicant, the test 
examination will be made for Ave minutes at the prescribed speed and if the 
applicant receives the material transmitted correctly for a continuous period 
of one minute during the transmission , he shall be considered to be successful 
in the test. 

For tests as under item ( ii ) and ( ili) above, a candidate may have to appear 
for written and /or oral examination . 

A fee of Rupees Ave shall be charged for the purpose of this examination , 

A certificate shall be awarded to the successful candidate in the proforma 
4, shown in Appendix III. 


Obverse 


APPENDIX III 
No . 2 


SEAL 


GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & COMMUNICATIONS 


(Deptts, of Commns. & Civil Aviation ) 


Amateur Station Operator s Certificate 

* (Grade I ) 

(Grade II ) 
(Issued under the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Amateur Service Rules 1958) . 
This is to certify that Shri . . 

. . . . . . . . has been examined 
and has qualified in sending and receiving in International Morse Code on tone 
signals at * twelve / ſive words per minute in clear English and has a general, 
elementary knowledge of operating procedure and the regulations regarding the 
prevention of harmful interference and general / elementary knowledge of Radio 
Theory and Practice . 

It is also certified that the holder has made a declaration that he will preserve 
the secrecy of correspondence . 
New Delhi: 
Date : 

Signature: 
Designation : 

Wireless Planning & Coordinatlon , 
Ministry of Transport & Communications, 

(Deptts, of Commns, & Civil Aviation ) . 
( to be struck off whenever unnecessary ) 
ENDORSEMENTS . 


913 


Src . 8 (i)) . 
_ - - = - 


- 


- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1889 

- 

Reverse 
Valid up to - 


( 
U 


n 


od 
a KS 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


Signature of hulder . . . . 
Date of birth . . . . . . . . 
Place of birth . . . . .. . . 

Declaration of Holder 
Age . . .. . ... . .. . .. .. .years 
Height . . . . . . . . . . . . Feet . . . . . . . . . . . . . Inches 
Colour of cyes , . . . . . . . . . . 
Colour of hair 

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Complexion . . . . . . . . . . 
Auly special pecullarities or marks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

This Certificate does not constitute a licence to establish , maintain or work 
a radio station ; for that purpose A lirenie must be obtained from the Ministry 
of Transport & Communications, New Delhi. 

This Certificate may be endorsed , suspended or cancelled at the discretion of 
thn Central Government, iſ the holdier coinmits a breach of the Indian Wireless 
Telegraphy ( Amateur Service ) Rules , 1958, or any regulation lawfully applicable 
to him in respect of radio - communication or radio - telcgraphy or radio - telephone 
apparatus. 

This Certificate should be carefully preserved . In case of loss through gross 
rarelessness , the Central Government may withhold the issue of duplicate copy 
thereof. In other cases , the Central Government may issue duplicate copies on 
payment of prescribed fees . 

Any person other than the owner thereof beroming possessed of this Certifcate 
is requested to send it to the Adviser , Wireless Planning & Co - ordination , Ministry 
of Transport and Communications, New Delhi. 

[ No. WL -1 ( 73 ) / 54.) 
T. R . MANTON , Dy . Şecy . 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - - - 


- - - - 


- - 


MINISTRY OF WORK HOUSING AND SUPPLY 


New Delhi, the 1st October 1958 
G . S . R 940 . - - In exercise of the powers conicired by section 31 of the Petroleum 
Act, 1934 ( 30) of 19341, the Central Goverinent herely makes the following amend 
nient in the notiliration of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Works , 
Prdırliun and Supply No. P . 104 , dated the 4th May , 1950 , nomcly : 
In the suid notification - 
for the words, figures and brackety " The Assam Municipal Act , 1923 (Assam 

Art I of 1973 )" , the coll. wing shall be substituted , namely : 
" The Assan Municipal Act, 1956 (Assam Act XV of 1957 )” , 


[No . S & P . II - 3 ( 13 ) / 58 . ] 
M . N . KALE , Under Secy . 


014 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1886 (PART II 
. - . - =I D O . - - - - - - 

(Central Boilors Board ) 
G . S . R . 941. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 28 of the Indian 
Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923) the Central Boilers Board hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the Indian Boilers Regulations, 1950, the same having 
been previously published as required by sub - section ( i) of section 31 of the Act, 
namely : 


In the said Regulations, in the list of well -known Steel-Makers in Appendix G 
the following shall be added at the end , namely : 
" 24. Messrs. Bethlehem Steel Company, Bethlehem , Pennsylvania, U .S . A ." . 

[ No. S & P.II/ BL -21(6 )/57 ] 

M . N . KALE , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND EMPLOYMENT 

New Delhi, the 30th Sepetmber 1958 


G .S . H . 942 . The following draft of a further amendment to the Industrial 
Disputes ( Central) Rules, 1957, which the Central Government proposes to make 
in exercise of the powers conferred hy section 38 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 
1947 114 of 1947 ) , is published as required by sub - section ( 1 ) of the said section 
for information of persons likely to be affected thereby ; and notice is hereby 
given that the said draſt will be taken into consideration on or after the 30th 
October 1958 , 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said drait before the date so specified will be considered by the 
Centra . Government. 


Draft amendments 


In the said rules 


li) in rule 7 , for the words " in triplicate to the Secretary the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour" the following shall be substituted, namely — 
" to the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour 

( in triplicate ) " . 
( ii ) for clause ( b ) of rule 8 , the following shall be substituted , namely ~ 
" ( b ) in the case of workmen , by any office bearer of a trade union of the 

workmen or by five representatives of the workmen duly authorised 

in this behalf at a meeting of the workmen held for the purpose . 
Erplanation . In this rule " office bearer " means any of the following office 

bearers, namely — 
( a ) the President; 
(b ) the Vice -President ; 
( c ) the Serretary ( including the General Secretary ) ; 
( d ) a Joint Secretary ; 
( el an Assistant Secretary ; 
( f ) a group Secretary ; 
( g ) any other office bearer of the trade union authorised in this behalt 
by the President or General Secretary of the Union ." 

[No. L.R .I. 1 (84 ) /58.] 
A . P . VEERA RAGHAVAN , Under Secy . 


= 


SS 

= = = 

PLANNING COMMISSION 
( Programme Evaluation Organisation ) 

New Delhi, the 4th October 1958 
G . S . R , 943.-- In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
method of recruitment to the posts of Deputy Investigators , Computors , Tabulation 
Clerks and Clerks (non -included in C .S . C .S . ) in the Programme Evaluation 
Organisation ( Planning Commission ) namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Programme Evaluation Organisation ( Planning 
Commission ) (Non -Secretariat Posts ) Recruitment Rules. 1958. 

2 . Recruitment to Class III posts (Deputy Investigators , Computors , Tabulation 
Clerks and Clerks ) in the Programme Evaluation Organisation ( Planning Com 
mission ) shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the schedule 
annexed hereto . 


[ 


Recruitment Rules for the Posts of Deputy Investigators, Computors and Tabulation Clerks 


Name of posts 


Classification 


No. of 
Posts 


Age limit fur 
direct recruits 


Scalc of pay Whether 

Selection 

post or 
nun - selec 
tion posts 


5 


6 


Post at Headquarters : 
Deputy Investigators 


14 


Clays III (Non - Rs . 80- 5 - 120 - Non - se- Below 25 years 
Gazetted ) Non - EB - 8 - 200 - leclion " relaxable in 
Ministerial 10 /2 - 220 post favour of Sche 

duled Castes , 
Scheduled Tri 
bes , displaced 
persons and 
uther special 
categories in 
accordance with 
the general or 
ders issued 
fruni tine to 
lime by the 
Govt, of India . 


Computors 


. 


. 


2 


D .). 


Rs . 60 - 4 - 120 - 
EB - 5 - 150 . 


. . 


* Tubulation Cerks 


* Tabulation Clerks , 


20 


20 


Do . 


Do 


Rs. 60 - 3 -81 
IB - 4 - 125 
5 - 130 


tego 


. 


Do 


Posts in the Sub -ordinate Offices. 
Clerks 

. 41 


Do . 


.. 


Du. 


Class III (Non - 
Gazetted ) Mli 
nisterial 


* Tliese posts will be outside the C .S.C.S . Scheme. 


SEL , 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958/ ASVINA 19 , 1880 


917 


- 


- 


- 


in the Programme Evaluation Organisation ( Planning Commission ) 


- 


- 


- 


Educational and other Whether uge Period of Method of In case of recll. If a D . P . 
qualifications required and cducational probation rectl , whether by promotion / C . exist s , 

qualifications if any b y direct rectt. Transfer , grades what is its 
prescribed for 

or by promo- from which composi 
direct recruits 

tion or transfer promotion to tion 
will apply in 

& percentage be made 
case of promo 

of the vacancies 
tecs 

to be filled by 

various 
methods. 


lol 


9 


IO 


II 


Clasa III 

D . P . C . 


(1) Atleast Second Class Will not apply Onc year 25 % by pro 
Bachelors degree with in the case of for direct motion , 75 % 
Economics , Agri, Econo - permanent recruits . by direct re 
mics , Economic Geogra - quasi- perma 

cruitment 
phy, Sociology, Anthro - fent employees . 

through the 
pology Social Psycho 

Employment 
logy, Social Work or Poli 

Exchange. 
tics . 


Computors , 
Tabulation 
Clerks and 
Clerks work 
ing in Units 
under this 
Organisation , 


( ii) Good knowledge 
(ability to renu , write and 
spcak ) of a Regional 
language . 


Desirable : 


( i) Experience in laby 
lation of datas. 

At least Second Class Not Applicable . 
Matriculate with proſi 
ciency in the use of cal 
cluating machines . 


Du. 


Nil 


Nil 


Direct recruit- 
ment througli 
Employment 
Exchunge. 


Du . 


Do . 


Do . 


Do. 


Do. 


At least Second Class 
Matriculule. 


Desirable : 


Bachelors degree with 
Economics , Igri. Econo 
mics , Economic Geogra 
phy, Sociology , Anihropo 
logy, Social Psychology , 
Social Work or Politics. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do. 


Do 


D o. 


De. 


[NO. PEO ( A ) / 15 ( 119 ) / 57, 1 
G . C . JERATH , Under Secy . 


918 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 [PART 1 
= . - - - - - - 

-- - - - - - - - -- --- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - . - - 

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi, the 30th September 1958 
G . S . R . 944, — In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution . the President hereby makes the following rules regulating the 
recruitment oť persons to the post of Rescarch Assistant ( Senior ) in the Gerreral 
Central Service , Class II in the Ministry of Education namely : 

1. Short title .-- These rules may be called the Ministry of Education [ Research 
Assistant ( Senior ) ] Rulcs, 1958 . 

2 . Method of recruitinent. - - Recruitment to the post of Research Assistant 
( Senior ) in the General Central Service (Class II ) in the Ministry of Education 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions contained in the Schedule bereto 
annexed . 


SCHEDULE 


Recruitment Rules for the post of Rescarch Assistunt ( Senior) in theMinistry of Education 


Name of you are not 


Name of post 


No . of 
posts , 


Classification 


pay 


Scale of Whether Age limit Educational and 

selection for direct other qualifi 
post or recruits. cations requir 
noel- clec 

ad . 
tion post . 


6 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


Research Assis 

tant ( Senior ) 


General Cen 
tral Service , 
Class 11 
( Non - gaze - 
tted ) (Non - 
Ministerial). 


Rs. 250- Non selec- Not ap - Not applicable . 
10 - 300 - tion . plicable . 
F: B - 15 
450 - 25 / 2 
500 . 


SEC . 3(1)] 

. - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1880 


919 


= - 


. 


. . 


= 


. 


Whether agc Period of Method of In case of re - If a Departmental Circumstances 
and cducational probation , recruitment cruitment by Promotion Com - in which Union 
qualifications if any . whether by promotion /trans - mittee cxists , Public Service 
prescribed for 

direct recruit- fer, grades from what is its com - Commission is 
the direct re 

ment or by which pronto pogilion . to be consulted 
cruits will apply promotion of lion to be made . 

in making re 
in the case of transfer & 

cruitment. 
poniottes . 

percentuge of 
the Vacancies 
to be filled by 
various incthods . 


Ι 


IO 
- 


12 
- - 


13 
- - - 


- 


- 


- - - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


--- 


Not applicable . Not appli - By promotion . (i) Technical 
cable . 

Stalistical 
Assistants 
( Ordinary 
Grade ) and 


Ad -hoc Class II Not applicable . 
Departmental 
Promotion 
Committee . 


( ii) Research 

Assistant 
(Junior ). 


X.C.MINO.Che,we 


[No. 14 -88 /57 -A2. ) 
M . C . MINOCHA, Under Secy . 


920 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER II, 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 [Part II 
= = = = = - - - - - - - - - - - . · - - - = = - - 

- - - - -- - - - - - - - 

ERRATA 
In the Ministry of Education , Notificativi: No. 14 - 23 / 58 - A - 2 , dated 9th August, 
1958 and No. 14 - 38 /58 - A - ? , dated 20th August, 1958 , published in the Gazette of 
India , Part 11 - Sertiin 3 ( i), dated 23rd August, 1958 and 30th August, 1958 as 
G . S . Rs. 726 and 754 respectively , the following corrections are to be made : - 
G . S . R . 726 . 
Page 676 — last linc 

for " Files 1959 " read " Rules 1958" . 
Page 677 , item 7 of the Schedule 
delete " m " after the word recruits , and for " T, Ş." after S . C . and before 

displaced reud " S . T ." . . 
G . S . R . 754 , 
Page 689, Sub - para ( 3 ), third line from bottom 

for " qualification " reud " qualifications" . 
Page 691, Column 7, Note - at thc bottom of the column 
Insert " psychology with degree or diploma in education of a recognised " 

after the word or and before the word University . 


- - - - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 


New Delhi, the 7th October 1958 


G . S . R . 945 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 8 of thc Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 (37 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rules, namely : 


THE CINEMATOGRAPH ( CENSORSHIP ) RULES, 1958 
1 . Short title and commencement.- - ( 1 ) These rules may be called the Cinemato 
graph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 . 

( 2 ) They shall come into force on the 14th day of October, 1958 . 
2 . Definitions. — In these rules , unless the context otherwise rquires -- 

(i) Act means the Cinemutograph Art, 1952 ( 37 of 1952 ) ; 
( ii) Advisory Panel means the Advisory Panel of the Board constituted 

under rule 8 ; 
(iii ) Applicant means a person applying for a Alm to be certified for 

public exhibition ; 
(iv ) Assistant Regional Oncer means an Assistant Regional Omcer 

appointed under rule 10 and includes the Secretary to the Chairman ; 
( v ) Board means the Board of Film Censors constituted under section 3 

of the Act : 
( vi ) Bombay film means any film other than a Calcutta or Madras Alm ; 
( vil) Calcutta mim means a nim imported from abroad into , or produced 

in , the States of West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa or Assam or the Union 

territory of Manipur or Tripura or the Andaman and Nicobar Islands ; 
( viii ) Chairman means the Chairman of the Board ; 
(ix ) Madras Alm means a Alm imported from abroad into , or produced 

in , the States of Madras, Andhra Pradesh , Mysore or Kerala or the 
State of Pondicherry or the Union territory of Laccadive , Minicoy 

and Amindivl Islands ; 
( x ) Regional Omcer means the Regional Omccr appointed under rulc 10 , 

and includes an Additional Regional Officer appointed under that 

rule ; 
( xi) Schedule means the Schedule to these rules. 


- 


- - - 
3 . Constitution of the Board . — The Board of Film Censors constituted under 
section 3 of the Act shall be known as the Central Board of Film Censors , and 
shall consist of a Chairman and six other members to be appointed by the Central 
Government. 

4 . Terms of Office . — ( 1 ) A member of the Board shall hold office during the 
pleasure of the Central Government. 

( 2 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - rule ( 1), every such member shall hold 
office for a term of three years : 

Provided that any person holding office as a member of the Board immediately 
before the commencement of these rules shall hold such office only for the 
remainder of the term for which he was appointed . 

( 3 ) A retiring member or a member whose term of office has expired by tfflux 
ot time shall be eligible for re -appointment, 

5 . Casual vacancy . A casual vacancy caused in the Board by resignation , 
death or removal of a menber , or otherwise , shall be Alled by the appointment 
of another member who shall hold ofhie for the remainder of the term of the 
member in whose place he is appointed . 


6 . Headquarters , — Unless otherwise directed by the Central Government, the 
headquarters of the Board shall be at Bombay. 

7 . Temporary absence of Chairman .-- Notwithstanding anything contained in 
these rules, during the absence of the Chairman from the city of Bombay or 
whenever the Chairman is temporarily unable to exercise his powers or perform 
his duties under these rules owing to s] incos or any other cause the Central Gov 
ernment may appoint another person to be the Chairman ; 

Provided that where no such appointment is made, the Regional Officer at 
Bombay , shall , in addition to his other duties, exercise the powers and perform 
the duties of the Chairman , and shall have the right to participate in meetings 
of the Board , hut shall not be cntitled to preside at any such meetings . 

8 . Constitution of Advisory Panels . — ( 1 ) The Central Government shall 
constitute an Advisory Panel at each of the towns of Bonibay, Calcutta and Madras 
and at such other places as the Central Government may consider necessary . 

( 2 ) An Advisory Panel constituted under sub - rule ( 1 ) shall consist of such 
number of members as the Central Government may , after consultation with the 
Board , determine. 

( 3 ) The Central Government nay , after consultation with the Board , appoint 
any person whom It thinks At to be a member of an Advisory Panel: 

Provider that the Central Government may dispense with such consultation 
in respect of such number of members not exceeding one- third of the total number 
of the members of the Advisory Panel, as that Government thinks fit. 

9 . Term of Office of Members of Advisory Panels , ( 1 ) A member of an 
Advisory Panel shall hold office during the pleasure of the Central Government. 

( 2 ) Subject to the provisions of sub -rule ( 1 ) , every such member shall hold 
omce for a term of two years: 

Provided that any person holding office as a member immediately before the 
commencement of these rules shall hold such office only for the remainder of 
the term for which he was appointed . 

( 3 ) A rctiring member or a member whose term of oflice has expired by efflux 
of time shall be eligible tor re -appointment. 

( 4 ) A casual vacancy in an Advisory Pane caused by the resignation , death 
or removal of any member or otherwise shall be filled by fresh appointment, and 
the person so appointed shall hold omce only for the remainder of the term for 
which the member whose place he takes was appointed , 

( 5 ) The Central Government may remove from once any member of an 
Advisory Panel before the expiration of his term of office : 

Provided that a meniber appointed to an Advisory Panel after consultation 
with the Board shall not be so removed except on the recommendation of, or 
after consultation with , the Board , 


; . GA E OF . A . 

11. . /ASVINA 19 , 

[ rs . I 
- - - - - - -- - - - -- - = = = - - - - - 

- - . -- . - - - - 
10 . Regional and Assistant Regional Oncers etc . — ( 1 ) For the purpose of 
enabling the Board to perform Its functions under the Act, the Central Govern 
ment may appointRegional Officers , Additional Regional Officers, Assistant 
Regional Omcers and such other officers , at Bombay, Calcutta , Madras and at 
any other place as the Central Government may consider necessary ; 

Provided that the Central Government may delegate to the Chairman 
subject to such conditious and limitations if any , as may be specified by it, the 
power of appointment conferred on it under this sub - rule , other than the power 
of appointment in relation to the posts of Regional Oficers , Additional Regional 
Oficers and Assista. it Regional Officers ; 

Provided further that the Chairman may grant leave to , or suspend , or remove 
from service, any officer appointed hy hin under the powers delegated to him 
under this sub -rule . 

( 2 ) The Regional Officers , Assistant Roglonal Officers and other officers 
appointed under sub -rule ( 1 ) shall perform such duties as may be assigned to 
them by these rules or by the Board . 

11 . Duties of the Board . — The Board shell , in additlon to other duties prescribed 
11der these rules : 

( 1 ) submit an antual report to the Central Government reviewing the work 
done by the Board during the preroding finanrial year; 

( ? ) prescribe the manner in which the registers, records and acrounts of the 
Board shall be kept, 

( 3 ) review the work of Regional Offirers and members of the Advisory Panels ; 

( 4 ) issue directives to Regional Oficers and incmbers of the Advisory Panels 
regarding the principles to be observed iri ciciermining whether a film is or is not 
suitable for public exhibition or is suitable for unrestricted p : 158ic exhibition 
or for public exhibition restricted to adults , 

12 . Assessment of public reactions to finis — With a view to determining the 
principles to be observed in partitying films, the Board may take surh steps as 
it thinks it to assess public reactions to films. 

13. Remuneration of Chairman , and allowances payable to members of the 
Bourd and the Advisory Panels . - ( 1 ) The Chairman shall receive such salary 
and allow inces and shall be subject to such other conditions of service as are 
specified is the terins of his appoiatment. 

( 2 ) Ey " y merrher of the Board other than the Chairman and every non 
Mial member of in Advisory Panel shall be paid such travelling allowances 
as the Central Government may, from time to time, determine, 

14 . Meetings mof the Board . -- - ( 1 ) The Board shall ordinarily meet once a 
quarter for tlie transaction of business, but the Chairman may at 9 time call 
as the Central Goicnincut may , from time to time, determine . 

( 2 ) Meetings of the Board shall be held at Surh places as the Chairman in 
his discretion may fix for the purpose , 

15 . Co -opted Members . — The Chairman may co -opt any one or more of the 
Regional Officers as a meniber or as memhers of the Board for the purpose of 
attenling a particular meeting of the Board , and such officer or officers shall 
thien be entitled to participare in the deliberations of the Board at that meeting 
but shall not be entitled 12 vote . 

16 . Notice of meeting . – 11 ) At least seven clear days notice of all meetings 
of the Board shall be given to each member , but an urgent meeting may be 
called by the Chairman at three clear days notice . 

( 2 ) The notice shall state the business to be transacted at the meeting and no 
business other than that stated shall be ( ansacled at such meeting except with 
the ( orisent of the Chairman or on his notion , 

17. Business ordinarily to be transacted at meetings. The business of the 
Board shall ordnarlly be transacted at a mceting duly called in accordance with 
the provisons of these rules : 

Provided that the Chairman may , if he thinks fit , circulate any urgent matter 
among the members for their opinion . 


Sec . 3 (i)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11. 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


923 


18. Quorum . - - At every meeting of the Board three members if the Chairman 
be present, and five members if he be absent, shall from a quorum . 

19 . President of the meeting. - Meetings of the Board shall be presided over 
by the Chairman or , in his absence by a member elected by the members present 
from among themselves, 

20. Questien to be decided by majority of yotes . - Every question before the 
Board shall be decided by a majority of votes and in the case of equality of 
votes, the Chairman or the member elected to preside under rule 19 , as the case 
may be , shall have a second or casting vote . 

21 . Board etc . may function notwithstanding vacancies .-- - The Board or any 
Advisory Panel may exercise its functions notwithstanding any vacancy therein , 
and no act or proceeding of the Board or the Advisory Panel shall be called in 
question on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in the Board or 
the Advisory Panel, as the case may be. 

22. Application for examination of films. - ( 1 ) Every application to certify a 
film for public exhibition shall be made in writing in Form I or Form II set out in 
the Schedule according as the film is produced in , or imported into India . 

( 2 ) The application shall be addressed to the Board and delivered to the 
Regional Officer concerned according as the film is a Bombay film , Calcutta film 
or Madras film : 

Provided that where films are imported into India , the Chairman may direct 
or perinit applications in respect of them to be delivered to a Regional Officer 
other than the Regional Officer to whom such applications would have been 
delivered but for this proviso : 

Provided further that the Chairman may in the following circumstances direct 
or permit applications in respect of any films or class of films to be delivered 
to a Regional Officer other than the Regional Officer to whom such applications 
would have been delivered but for this proviso , namely 
( i) where a Bombay film is produced in any State other than the State 

of Bombay , or 
( ii) where the Chairman is satisfied that immediate artion for examination 

of a film is necessary, or 
( iii) where , examination of a film with the assistance of persons well 

acquainted with the language of the film is not possible at the place 
where , but for the provisions of this proviso , it would have been 

delivered for examination . 
(3 ) Every such application shall be accompanied by 

(a ) the fee prescribed under rule 37 ; 
(b ) eight typed or printed copies of the synopsis of the film and of the 

full text of the songs , if any : 
Provided that where the film is in a language other than English or an 

Indian language , the applicant shall furnish eight typed or printed 
copies of the translation in English or Hindi of the synopsis and 

of the full text of the songs, if any : 
Provided further that in the case of a film referred to in the preceding 

proviso , the Regional Officer may direct the applicant to furnish also 
eight typed or printed copies of the translation in English or Hindi 

of the full text of the dialogues, speeches or commentary ; 
( c ) the original certificate or a duplicate certificate or where the original 

certificate did not bear a triangle mark , a photostate copy of the 
certificate if the application is made for the examination of the 

film as provided for in rule 28 . 
(4 ) If in the case of a newsreel, documentary or other short film the Regional 
Officer is satisfied that the applicant is not able to furnish the documents specified 
in clause ( b ) of sub - rule ( 3 ) , along with the application for reasons beyond his 
control, the Regional Officer may direct that such documents may be furnishec 
within such period after the examination of the film as he may specify , or thatı 
the submission of such documents may be dispensed with . 


( 5 ) No such application shall be accompanied by any documents other than 
those mentioned in clauses (b ) and ( c ) of sub - rule ( 3 ). 


924 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 / ASVINA 19 , 1RAO PART I 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

: 

- - : - - - - - - - 
23 . Examining Committee . ( 1 ) On receipt of an application under rule 22 
the Regional Oficer shall appoint an Examining Committee to examine the Alm , 
The examination shall be made at such place and at such time as the Regional 
Officer may deterinine and at the expense of the applicant. 


4 


or 


(2 ) The Examining Conimittee shall consist of 
( a ) in the case of a newsreel, documentary short , or a cartoon or in the 

case of a Alm predominantly educational, i member of the Advisory 

Panel and the Regional Officer or Assistant Regional Officer ; and 
( b ) in the case of any other film , four members of the Advisory Panel 

and the Regional Oncer or the Assistant Regional Officer ; 
Provided that if the Regional Officer or Assistant Regional Officer is 

unavoidably absent at the examination of a film , the Examining 
Comiittee shall consist of two members of the Advisory Panel in a 
Case falling under Clause ( a ) and five mernbers of the Advisory 

Panel in a case falling under clause ( b ) . 
( 3 ) Immediately after the examination of the Alm , the opinion of the members 
of the Examining Committee attending thc examination shall be recorded in 
duplicate by the Regional Onicer or Assistant Regional Officer , or in the absence 
of both , by a member of the Committee appointed by the Regional Officer for 
this purpose stating, with regard to each member , whether he considers : 

( a ) that the film is or is not suitable for unrestricted publlo exhibition ; or 
( h ) that the Alm is or is not suitable for public exhibition restricted try 

adults ; or 
( c ) that the Alm will be suitable for unrestricted public exhibition , or 

public exhibition restricted to adults . as the case may be, it a 

specified portion or specified portions be deleted theretrom . 
(4 ) One copy of thc record prepared under sub -rulo ( 3) shall be sent hy the 
Regional Officer to the Chairman forthwith . 

24 , Certifcation . On receipt of the record referred to in rule 23 , the Chairman 
shall, unless he proceeds under sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 25 , direct the Regional Omcer 
concerned to certify the film on behalf of the Board as being suitable for 
unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition restricted to adults as the 
case may be: 

Provided that the Chairman may , with the previous approval of the Central 
Government, authorise any Regional Oiher to certify without any such direction 
any class or kind of film after the Examining Committees huve examined and 
recommended such certification : 

Provided further that hefore certifying any film for public exhibition restricted 
to adults , the Chairman or as the case may be , the Regional Omcer, shall give the 
applicant a reasonable opportunity of representing his case , 

25 . Revising Committee .-- . ( 1 ) On receipt of the record referred to in rule 23 , 
the Chairman may , of his own motion or on the request of the applicant, refer it 
to a Revising Committee constituted by him for the purpose . 

(21 The Revising Committee shall ordinarily consist of the Chairman and , sub 
jert to sub - 1 ule ( 5 ) , all the resident members of the Advisory Panel of the plarie 
where the app ? ration under rule 22 was received : 

Provided that , subject to the quorum specified in sub -rule ( 10 ) , the procredings 
of the Committee shall not he questioned on the ground 1970 ? y of t11 + ab se lllo 
of any menbrr or memhers of the Advisory Panel: 

Provided further that the Chairman nav , at his discretion , constitute , for the 
examination of any sperified film , a Special Revising Committee consisting of the 
Chairman and such number of members of the Advisory Pariel of the plip e whert.. . 
the application under rule 22 was received or of any other place as may be aperi 
Acd by him . 

( 3 ) The Chairman , if present, shall preside at every meeting of the Revising 
Committee ( insluding the Serial Revising Committen ) . If he is unable to attend . 
a member of the Advisory Pancl nominated by the Chairman for thr pu pour shall 
preside. 


- - - 


- 


- 


Src . 3(i)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 . 1958 / ASVINA 19, 1880 925 
+ - - - -- - - - - - - - - -- - - 

- - - - -- - - - 
( 4 ) Tlie Regional Officer may be invited to attend any meeting of a Revising 
Committee ( inc :udin , a Special Revising Committee ) and participate in proceed 
ings thereof but he shall have no right to vote tlicreat. 


( 5 ) No niember of the Advidory Panel who has been a member of the Examin 
ing Committee for any filin shall be a member of the Revising Committee or 
Special Revising Committee in leipect of the same filin . 

(6 ) The Revising Committee or Special Revising Committee shall examine 
1he tim at such time and at such place as the Chairman inay determine and , if 
the examination be at the rt quest of the applicant, at the latter s cxpense . 


17 ) For the purpose of examination of the film by a Revising Committee or 
Special Revising Committee under sub - rulo ( 6 ) , the applicant may be required 
to furnish twenty - five typed o : printed copies of the synopsis of the film and of 
che full text of the songs, if any : 
Provided that in the case of tim in a language other than English or an . 

Indian language , the applicant shall furnish twenty - five typed or 
printed copies of the translation in English or Hindi of thc synopsis 

and of the full text of songs , if any : 
Provided further that in the case of film referred to in the preceding 

proviso , the Chairman muy direct the applicant to furnish also twenty 
live typed or printed cupies of the translation in English or Hindi 

of the full text of the dialogues , specches or commentary , 
Provided also that where the Chairman is satisfied that the applicant is 

not able to furnish the documents specified in this sub - rule for 
reasons beyond his control, the Chairman may direct that the sub 

mission of such documents may be dispensed with . 
( 8 ) Immediately after the examination of the film by the Revising Committee 
or the Special Revising Committee as the case may be, the opinion of the mem 
bers attending the examination shall be recorded in duplicate stațing with regard 
to each member of the particulars specificd in sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 23 . 

( 9 ) One copy of the record prepared under sub -rule ( 8 ) shall be sent to the 
Chairman forthwith . 

( 10 ) The quurum oť a Revising Commitlee shall be half the membership of the 
Advisory Panel cxcluding the non -resident members and the members who sat 
on the Examining Committee in respect of the same film , 

( 11) The quorum for a Special Revising Committee shall bc Ave . 

( 12 ) The decision of a Nevising Committce and a Special Revising Committee 
shall be that of the majority of the members altending the examination of the 
film and , in the event of an equality of votes , the presiding officer shall have a 
second or custing vote . 

( 13 ) On receipt of the record under sub - rule ( 9 ) , the Chairman shall issue 
or authorise: the Regional Omer 10 issue a certificate in conformity with the 
decision of the Revising Cuminita or the Special Revising Committee . 

26 . Issue of certificate subject to reinoyal of portions of film . - ( 1 ) Where the 
Applicant la infornied by il Regional Officer or the Chairman that a film will not 
be certified for unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition restricted 
to adults , as the care may be , unless i specified portion) or portions thereof be 
l emoved from the filin the Regional Officer may, with the approval of the 
Chairman , issue a certificate cortifying the film for unrestricted public cxhibition 
or for public exhibition restricted to adults , as the case may be, if he is satisfied 
on a declaration made in writing by the applicant that the portion or potions 
objected to have been deleted from the film and from all copies thereof in the 
applicant s possession and surrendered to him The porition or portions of the 
film ind of all copies thercot so surrendered shall be preserved for a period 
of tiree months and thereafter destroyed : 


Proviced that single ( Xcisions exceeding seventy - five feet in length shall be 
preserved for a period of six months before they are destroyed . 


Explanation . For the purpose of satisfying himself that the portion or por 
tions objected to have been deleted , the Regional Officer or the Chairman nay , 
at the expense of the applirant, himself examine the film , or cause it to be 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - - 


026 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1989 (PART II 

S : - - : 3 
examined by one or more members of the Advisory Panel at such time and place 
as he may determine . 

( 2 ) A certificate issued under sub - rule ( 1 ) shall be endorsed with a specifica 
tion of the portion or portions required to be removed and a statement of the 
exact length of each part or parts removed , and shall bear a clearly visible 
triangle drawn at the left hand bottom corner of the certificate . 

( 3 ) Where any film has been granted a certificate under this rule subject to 
the condition that a specified portion or portions thereof be removed from the 
film , any person who imports or otherwise acquirex a copy of the film after the 
date of certificate aforesaid , shall surrender to the Board such portion or por 
tions in any such copy . 

27 . Deposit of a copy of certified Alm . After the Fegional Officer or the 
Chairman , as the case may be, has affixed his signature to the certificate granted 
under rule 24 , 25 or 26 and prior to the delivery or despatch of the certifi 
cate to the applicant, a copy of the film as certified by the Board in 35 millimetre 
Or 16 millimetre or a shooting script thereof shall be deposited with the Board hy 
the applicant at his own expense for the purpose of record : 

Provided that where the Clairman or Regional Officer is of opinion that the 
applicant for reasons beyond his control is unable to deposit such copy or script 
prior to the delivery or despatch of the certificate , the Chairman or the Regional 
Officer may deliver the certificate on the applicant s giving an undertaking tinat 
he shall deposit the said copy or script within such time not excceding ty 
days as may ho specified by the Chairman or Regional Officer , 

28 . Valdity of certificate . - ( 1 ) A certificate in respect of a film which is in 
force on the 1st day of Morch , 1958 , or which is issued on or after that date 
shall remain valid for a period of ten ycars from the date of its issue , 

Provided that any certificate issued under the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) 
Rules, 1951, shall be valid for a period of ten years from the date on which it 
was so issued . 

( 2 ) A fresh certificate may be issued on an application made under rule 22 
for the examination of the aim under rule 23 , but the Regional Officer mey , witlı 
the prior approval of the Chairman , dispense with such cxamination . 

29. Certificate liable to cancellation by the Board , — A certificate granted by 
the Buard unde " these rulcs shall be granted subject to the condition that it shall 
be liable to cancellation in the event of the Alm in respect of which the certificate 
was granted being exhibited in a form other than the one in which it was certified , 

31 , Seizure of the cony of a certified Alm . — ( 1 ) When a film certified under 
these rules Is cxhibited in a form other than the one in which it was certified 
by the Board , it may be seized on the spot in pursuance of an order passed by 
the District, Magistrate or any magistrate of the first class or sub - Divisional 
M2151ta1e empowered in this behalf by the District Magistrate . 

( 2 ) The copy of the Alm seized under sub - rule ( 1 ) may be cited in evidence 
against the exhibitor of the film in the proceedings against him for contraven 
tion of the provisions of Part II of the Act . 

31. Information and documents to be given to distributors with respect to 
certified films as required under section 6A of the Act . - ( 1 ) Any person who 
delivers any cortiicd aim to any distributor or exhibitor shall notify in writing 
to the distributor or exhibitor. is the case may be, it ! 19 particulars respectin : 
the film mentioned in section 6A of the Act, together with such other particulars 
as may be specified on the obverse and the reverse of the certificate granted by 
the Board in respect of that film . 

Ecoplanation — Delivery of a duplicate copy of the certificate cr copy thereo 
duly attested to be a true copy a magistrate shall be deemed to be sufficient com 
pliance with the provision of this rule . 


( 2 ) The provision of sub - rule ( 1 ) shall apply in relation to an amendmen 
of i certificate in respect of a sm , as it applies in relation to the certificatt 
itsell . 


12 . Uncertiration of a Alp under section 6 ,- - Vhere in exercise of the power 
conferred by section 6 of the Ant , the Central Government by notification , direct: 
thet a certified film shall be deemed to be an unrertified film in the whole o 


Sec. 88)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


927 


India , the applicant and any other person or person to whom the rights in the 
film have passed , shall surrender the certificate and all copies of the duplicate 
certificate granted in respect of the Alm , to the Board within one month from 
the date of the notification : 


Provided that the Chairman may , at the written request of the applicant or 
any other person concerned , extend the said period . 


33. Re -examination of certified films. - ( 1 ) In the case of a Alm which has 
been certified for public exhibition , if a representation is received from any 
member of the Board or any of its Advisory Panels, the representation shall be 
considered by the Board as soon as convenient. Any representation received 
from a member of the public or from any association or group of individuals 
shall be examined by the Chairman and , if he considers It desirable , shall be 
laid before the Board for consideration . 


( 2 ) Where the Board considers that the film should be re - examined or where 
the Central Government directs the Board to arrange for the re - examination of 
a certified film , the Chairman shall appoint a Reviewing Committee to re - examine 
the Alm , consisting of the Chairman and two members of the Board nominated 
by the Chairman ; 


Provided that where two members of the Board are not readily available to 
serve on the Committee , the Chairman may, in place of one such member , nomi 
nate a member of an Advisory Panel to the Committee . 


( 3 ) The place , date and time of such re - examination shall be determined by 
the Chairman . 


(4 ) The Chairman shall forward the opinion of the Committee to the Central 
Government who may pass such orders thcrcon as it deems fit . 


( 5 ) The original applicant for the examination of the Alm or the person to 
whom the rights of ownership or distribution in the film have passed shall, on 
receiving written notice from or on publication of the notice in the Official Gazette , 
by the Chairman or the Central Government, as the case may be, arrange to deliver 
a copy of the certified film to the Regional Officer concerned within such time as 
may be specified in such notice for examination by the Reviewing Committee 
under sub -rule ( 2 ) or by the Central Government to enable it to arrive at a 
decision under sub -rule ( 4 ) or sections 5 and 6 of the Act. 


( 6 ) No order under sub - rule ( 4 ) or under section 3 or section 6 of the Act 
shall be made to the prejudice of the applicant unless he has had an opportunity 
of representing his case. 


34 . Alteration of film after issue of certificate . - ( 1 ) When a film is altered by 
excision , addition , colouring or otherwise , after it has been certified under these 
rules , it shall not be exhibited unless the portion or portions excised , added 
coloured or otherwise altered , have been reported to the Board in Form 1Il in 
the Schedule and the Board have endorsed particular of the alteration or altera 
tions on the certificate , 

Explanation 1. - Reasonable wear and tear in the normal course of handling 
or projecting a Alm shall not be deemed to be an alternation of the film within 
the meaning of this sub - rule. 

Explanation II .- Any addition , deletion , alteration or replacement of back 
ground music in a Alm or a mere change in gauge shall not be decmed to be an 
alternation of the film within the meaning of this sub - rule unless the Chairman 
by gencral or special order otherwise directs . 

( 2 ) On receipt of the report referred to in sub - rule ( I ) , the Regional Officer 
shall appoint an Examining Committee to examine, at the expense of the appli 
cant, the recl or reels in which the portion or protions altered occur : 

Provided that the Examining Committee may , in its discretion , re - examine 
the entire film . 

Provided further that where a film is altered by excision only , it shall not 
ordinarily be necessary to appoint an Examining Committee unless the Regional 
Omcer in any case otherwise directs . 


928 : THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : . OCTO 11, 1958 ,ASV A 19 , 1880 [PART III 

- - -- - 

- - - - - - - - - 
( 3 ) The Examining Committee, appointed under sub - rule ( 2 ) , shall consist 
of one member of the Advisory Panel and the Regional Officer or Assistant 
Fegional Officer ; 

Provided that where both the Regional Officer and the Assistant Regional 
Officer are unayoidably absent at the examination of the Alm or any reel there 
of, the Examining Committee shall consist of two members of the Advisory Panel, 

35 . Amendment of a certificate granted by the Board after notification under 
section 6 . — When a notification is published under the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Act, declaring that a Alm in respect of which a U certificate has 
been granted shall be deemed to be film in respect of which an A certificate 
has been granted , the person to whom the certificate has been granted or the 
person to whom the rights in the Alm have passed as the case may be, shall 
produce the certificate to the Board for amendment within a fortnight of the 
said publication . 

36 . Certificates ( 1 ) A certificate authorising the public exhibition of a film 
shall be in one of the Forms IV or V set out in the Schedule according as the 
authorisation is for unrestricted public exhibition or for public exhibition 
restricted to adults . 

( 2 ) The certificate shall be signed for and on behalf of the Board by the 
Chairman or by a Regional Officer for the Chairman , 

( 3 ) The prescribed mark of the Board shall be a Alm copy of the certificate , 
ie., a traller certificate, not less than 15 ft, or 6 ft. long , according as the Alm 
is in 35 mm or 16 mm , which shall be allxed to the Alm and always exhibited 
with it . 

(4 ) A certificate of a Alm predominantly educational shall be in Form VI. 

37. Fees ( 1) A fee shall be charged for the examination of every Alm at 
the rates laid down in the following table : - 

TABLE OF FEES 


Size of film 


Length of film 


Scale of fees 


- - 


- 


35 injllime[re. (a ) 2 ,000 feet or below Rs . 5 per feet or a fraction thereof. 

(b ) Exceeding 2 ,000 feet. R $ 40 Per 1,000 feet or a fraction there of 
16 millimetre. (a ) 800 feet or below . Rs . 5 per 400 feet or a fraction thereof, 

(b ) Exceeding 800 feet. Rs. 40 per 400 feet or a fraction thereof, 
- - - - - - - - - - -- - - . - . 

Provided that where an applicant applies for a Alm being certified as pre 
dominantly educational under sub -rule (4 ) of rule 36 , the fee for its examination 
shall be charged at the rate of rupees five per 1 ,000 feet or 400 feet according 
as the film is in 35 mm or 16 mm , cr a fraction thereof, irrespective of the total 
length of the Alm : 

Provided further that if a Alm exceeding 2 , 000 feet or 800 feet according 
as the film is in 35 mm or 16 mm in respect of which examination fee has been 
paid at the rate specified in the first proviso , is, after examination , considered 
by the Board not to be suitable for being certified as predominantly educational, 
the applicant shall forthwith pay the balance of the examination fee that would 
have been payable in respect of the film but for the first proviso : 

Provided further that where an applicant falls to pay the balance of examina 
tion fee under the second proviso , he shall not be granted a certificate , in respect 
of that Alm under rule 24 , rule 25 or rule 26 , as the case may be. 

( 2 ) Fees charged for the examination of a Alm for a fresh certificate 
l eferred to in sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 28 shall be half of the rates laid down in 
sub -rule ( 1 ) : 

Provided that where the fresh certificate is granted without examination of 
the film under sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 28 , the fees charged shall be one -tenth of the 
fees charged for the examination of a Alm under this sub - rule . 

( 3 ) A fee of rupee one shall be charged for a duplicate or a subsequent 
nopy of the certifcate . 


SEC . 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958/ ASVINA 19, 1880 


9 29 


- 


- - 


- - 


- 


- - 


- - 


-- - - - - - - - - - 


- - 


- - - 


-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - 


- 


( 4 ) The Central Government may require the applicant preferring an appeal 
under sub -section ( 1 ) of section 5 of the Act , to bear the cost of the transport 
and examination of the film in respect of which the appeal has been preferred . 

( 5 ) The Board may remit in whole or in part the fee for examination of a 
Alm in the event of the application for a certificate being withdrawn before the 
film is examined . 

Explanation 1. - When the entire film is re - examined under rule 34 , the 
examination fee chargeable shall be calculated with reference only to the reel 
or reels in which portion or portions excised , added , coloured or otherwise altered 
occur. 

Explanation II. -- No fee shall be chargeable for any endorsement made by the 
Board on a certificate in respect of the alteration of a Alm under rule 34 in cases 
in which the necessity for appointment of an Examining Committee is dispensed 
with under the second proviso to sub - rule ( 2 ) of the said rule , 

38 . Power of entry . The Chairman , or any member of the Board or an 
Advisory Panel or a Regional or an Assistant Regional Officer or any other officer 
or member of the staff of the Board authorised in writing by the Chairman in 
this behalt may enter any place licensed under the law in force relating to 
cinemas , in the discharge of his duties under the Act , cr these rules . 

39. Advertisement of Alms. Any person advertising a Alm certified for public 
exhibition restricted to adults or the exhibition of such Alm by means of insertions 
in nowspapers , hoardings , posters , or hand bills shall, after the date of its certif 
cation , indicate in such insertions in newspapers, hoardings , posters or handbllls 
that the film has been certified for public exhibition restricted to adults only . 

40. Maintenance of Register. - ( 1 ) The Board shall maintain a register in 
which shall be entered 

(a ) the name of cvery Alm examined under the Act ; 
( b ) the name of the person applying for a certificate ; 
( c) the name of the person or company producing or releasing the Alm ; 
( a ) the name of the country in which the Alm was originally produced ; 
(e ) the name of the place where the film was examined ; 
( 1) the date of the examination ; 
( g ) the names of the persons who examined the film ; 
( h ) the result of the examination and of any further proceedings thereon ; 
(i) the number and date of the certificate issued , if any , together with a copy 

of any endorsement made thereon . 
( 2 ) For the purpose of enabling the Board to maintain such a register , the 
Regional Officers at Bombay, Calcutta and Madras shall each maintain similar 
registerg in respect of applications for certification made to them and send to the 
Board a duplicate copy of every entry made in it, as soon as may be, after it has 
been made. 

( 3 ) A copy of the entries in the register maintained by the Board made during 
any month shall be sent to the Regional Officers at Bombay , Calcutta and Madras 
during the next following month . 


41. Certain Alms to continue to remain uncertified Alms. If a Alm has been 
declared by a notification issued before the 15th January , 1951, by any State 
Government to be an uncertiſed Alm in any part or parts of the State concerned 
and if the said notification has not ceased to be in force by virtue of the proviso 
to sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 35 of the Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1951, the film 
shall not be publicly exhibited unless it is certified for public exhibition in 
accordance with the provisions of these rules : 


Provided that before certifying any such Alm for public exhibition the Board 
shall obtain the prlor approval of the Central Government, 

42. Repeal. - The Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1951, are hereby repealed . 


930 


; GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11, 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


[PART II 


= 


= 


= = 


SCHEDULE 


FORM I 


Form of application for certification for public exhibition of a Alm produced in 
India . 


[ See sub -rule (1 ) of rule 22 ] 


No. 


and date 


of application (to be entered by Board s office). 


To 


The Central Board of Film Censors through the Regional Officer at Bombay / 
Calcutta / Madras * . 

Application for certification for public exhibition of a film produced in India 


at . . . . . 


( 1) (a ) Name of the film . 
( b ) Language of the Alm , 
(c ) Length of the Alm in feet. 
(d ) Number of reels . 
(e ) Gauge of the Alm . . 
(1) Type of the Alm , i.e ., whether it is 2 -D , 3- D , Cinemascope, Vistavision etc. 
. ( 8 ) Whether the Alm is silent or a talkie. 
(h ) Colour of the film . 
(i) Name and address of the producer . 

( 2 ) State whether the film is a Newsreel/Documentary / Scientific / Educational/ 
Feature film . 

(3 ) State separately the number of negative and positive prints of the Alm , 
( a ) Produced — (Negative . ..... Positive ......), 
(b ) In the applicant s possession (Negative ... -, Positive .. . .....). 

(4 ) In what other language / languages, if any , has this Alm been produced or 
dubbed ? Where the title is not the same in each language, state the title of each 
version of the Alm . 


5 . Has any previous application been made to certify this Alm as suitable for 
public exhibition in India ? 

....... . 
If so , 
( a ) Where and to whom was it made? 
(b ) What was the result of the application ? 
* (i ) * A " U " / An " A " certificate No .. . . .. .. ... .. dated .. 

. .. was granted 
* subject to the following cuts. .. .. .... . 

( ii) Certificate was refused , 


6 . Has the exhibition of this Alm been at any time suspended or the Alm 
declared uncertified by the Central or any State Government? State particulars . 


. . . . . . . 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 


- 


- 


- 


* Score cut the word or words which are not applicable . 


SEC. 3(1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11. 1958 /ASVINA 19, 1880 


931 


7. Dces the Alm contain any dialogue, song, poem , speech or commentary in 
any language other than English or an Indian language ? 

If so , specify the reel or reels in which the dialogue, song, poem , speech or 
coinmentary occurs , and the language or languages used . 

8 . Amount of fee accompanying the application on account of the fee prescribed 
in rule 37. 

9 . Name, address and telephone number, if any, of the applicant. 
10 . I declare that the statements above recorded are true in every particular, 


Date ... .. .. . . . .. . . . . 


Signature of applicant. 


FORM II 
Form of application for certification for public exhibition of a film imported into 

India . 

[See Sub - rule ( 1) of rule 22 ] 
No. and date 

of application (to be entered by Board s office ). 


TO 


- 


- 


- 


- 


. 


. 


. 


The Central Board of Film Censors, through the Regional Officer at Bombay / 
Calcutta / Madras." 

Application for certification for public exhibition of a Alm first imported into 
India at ... .. .... .. .. 

( 1) ( a ) Name of the Alm . 
(b ) Language of the film . 
( c ) Length of the Alm in feet. 
(d ) Number of reels . 
(e ) Gauge of the film . 
(f) Type of Alm t.e., whether it is 2-D , 3-D Cinemascope, Vistavision etc . 
( g ) Whether the Alm is silent cr a talkie . 
( h ) Colour of the Alm . 
( i) Name of the producer , 
(1) Country in which produced . 

( 2 ) State whether the Alm is a * Newsrcel / Documentary / Scientific / Educational / 
Feature film , 

( 3 ) State separately, the number of negative and positive prints of the film : 
( a ) imported by the applicant (Negative . . . Positive . . . . ). 
(b ) in the applicant s possession (Negative . ... Positive .....). 

(4 ) In what Indian language / languages, if any, has this Alm been produced / 
dubbed ? .. 


Where the title is not the same in each language , state the title of each version 
in which it has been produced or dubbed , 


5. Has any previous application been made to certify this Alm 
present or any other title ) In 


( under 


tts 


( a ) India 
( b ) United States of America ; 
( c ) United Kingdom ; 
(d ) any other country ; 
If so , 
( 1) where and to whom was it made ? 
(li) what was the result of the application 1.e. 


032 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 , 1880 


PART II 


" (i) * A " U " / An “ A ” certificate No.. 
dated 

.. . was granted * subject to the following cuts 


. . , , , , , , , , 


, 


(li) Certificate was refused 
In the case of film made in the United States of America, state the rating 

of this Alm according to ( a ) the National Groups and (b ) the League 
of Decency . 

( a ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ( b ) . . . . . . . . . . . 
6 . Has exhibition of this Alm been , at any time, suspended or the Alm declared 
uncertified by the Central or any State Government? 

State particulars : 

7 . Does the Alm contain any dialogue, song, poem , speech or commentary in 
any language other than English or any Indian language ? 

If so , specify the reel or reels in which the dialogue , song, poem , speech or 
commentary occurs and the language or languages used , 

8 . Amount of fee accompanying the application on account of the fee prescribed 
in rule 37. 

9 . Name, address and telephone number , if any , of the applicant. 
10 . ( a ) Name, address and telephone number, if any , of the importer of the 


Alm . . . . . . 


(b ) Number and date of the import licence . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

( c) Date of clearance through the customs 
11. I declare that the Alm is predominantly an educational Alm and request 
that a certificate be issued to that effect to enable the applicant to obtain exemp 
tion from customs duty . 
12 . I declare that the statements above recorded are true in every particular. 

Signature of applicant. 
Date . 
· * Score out the word or words which are not applicable. 

FORM III 

( See rule 34 ) 

( To be submitted in duplicate ) 
Report under rule 34 of the Cinematograph (Censorshiy ) Rules , 1958 regarding 
an alteration or alterations in a certified Alm . 

1. Name of the applicant; 
2 . Name of the Alm : 
3. Certificate No . 

dated 
4 . Particulars of alterations: 
( Specify the exact alteration or alterations, length and the number of the 
reel or reels in which the alteration or alterations occurs or occur.) 
To 

The Chairman , Central Board of Film Censors, through the Regional Officer , 
at Bombay / Calcutta /Madras* . 

I declare that the above particulars are true in every respect and are a full 
description of the alteration or alterations made in the Alm after its certification , 

Signature of the applicant. 
Date : 
Address : 

* Score out the word or words which are not applicable . 


Sec. 3(1) 


933 
- -- - 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 , 1958 /ASVINA 19 ; 1880 

- - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - 

FORM IV 
[ See sub - rule (1 ) of rule 36 ] 

COVERNMENT OF INDIA 


ft. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 
This is to CERTIFY that the Alm entitled . . . , 
has been passed for UNRESTRICTED public exhibition within the territories of 
India to which the Cinematograph Act, 1952 extends. 

Applicant 
Produced by 
Languages of the Film 
Gauge of the Film 
* Length of the Film 

REELS. 
No. of Certificate 

Chairman , 

Central Board of Film Censors . 
Dated , 

. . . . . . . . the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195 . 
In the event of a copy of the film being prepared in a gauge other than that 
mentioned in the certificate , the certifled length shall be deemed to be the corres 
ponding length appropriate to that gauge. 

FORM V 
[ See sub -rule ( 1) of rule 36 ] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 
This is to CERTIFY that the Alm entitled . ... . .. 

.. . . .. .. . . has been passed for public exhibition restricted 
TO ADULTS within the territories of India to which the Cinematograph Act , 1952 
extends. 


It 


Applicant 
Produced by 
Language of the Film 
Gauge of the Film 
* Length of the Film 

REELS . 
No. of certificate 

Chairman , 

Central Board of Film Censors . 
- Dated . . . . .. .. . the.. . . . .... .. .. .. ....195 . 

In the event of a copy of the Alm being prepared in a gauge other in 1977 
mentioned in the certifcate , the certified length shall be deemed to be the corres 
ponding length appropriate to that gauge , 


934 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : OCTOBER 11 . 1988 /ASVINA 19, 1890 


[PART II 


- 


-- 


- 


FORM VI 
Certificate of a Alm predominantly educational 

[ See sub -rule (4) of rule 36 ] 

GOVERNMENT OF INDIA 


Y4W 


CENTRAL BOARD OF FILM CENSORS 
Certificate No. ... . 

.... . . ......... of 195 
This is to certify that the parcel containing the following Alms was delivered to 
Shri. . .. .. . . . . 

.. . . .. . Regional Oficer / Assistant Regional Omcer, 
Central Board of Film Censors at Bombay / Calcutta /Madras who examined the 
seals and identified the films according to the particulars verified at the time of 
the customs examination , and that the Board is satisfied that the films are of a 
predominantly educational nature and comply with the requirements for exemp 
tion from customs duty . 
• Name of Alm Name of Producer 

Length of Film 


Name of Importer 


( Signature of Regional Officer / 

Assistant Regional Officer .) 


Date . 


[No. 5/6 / 58 -FC.] 
D . R . KHANNA , Under Secy . 


- - 


- 


— 


- I 


PRINTED IN INDIA DY THE GENERAL MANAGER . GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS . 
NEW DELHI AND PUULISHED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1958 


