tri do 


222 


REGISTERED NO, D . X2 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


___ प्राधिकार से प्रकाशित 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


po 52] 
No . 52] 


ffacent,sare, factare 24, 1966 /679 3, 1888 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


इस भाग में भिन्न पृष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह अलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may be filled 

as a separate compilation . 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
free Tam aTTTT 1 / 377 10 fat , 1966 F gafsta fog tu ! 

The undermentioned Gazeites of India Extraordinary were published up to the oth 
December, 1966 : 


Issuc 


No and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


406 S . O . 3671, dated 5th De - 

cember , 1900 . 


Ministry of Commerce 


407 S . O . 3672 , dated 5th De- 

cember , 1906 . 


Miniatry of Ilomo 
Alfairs . 


408 


S. O . 3673, dited 5th D :- 

cember , 1966 . 


Election Commission , 

India 


Do. 


S . O . 3674 , dated 5th De 

comber, 1966 . 
409 $ . O . 3675 , dated 6th D : 

cember , 1966 . 


Further amendment in the Ter 

tile Commissioner s notifica 
tion No. S . O . 2094 , dated 
6th July , 1966 . 
The Punjab Reorganisation (Re 
moval of Dilliculties ), Order 

No. 2 of 1960 . 
Designating Returning Officers 

for th - Parliamentary Cons 
tituencies in the Union 

Territory ol Delli, 
Appointing some officers to 

assist the Returning Officers . 
Corrections in the Delimita 

tion Commissionli s Order 
No . 9 , duted 16th Septem 
ber, 1965 relating to the State 
of Madras. 
T - 01179 in the Delimita 
tion Cmmission s Order No. 
17 , dated 22nd July , 1966 , 
relating to the Union Territory 
of Delhi. 


Do . 


410 


C 


S . O . 3576 , dared ( 112 Du 

cember , 1966 . 


( 3501 ) 


3502 THI GAZETTI OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


[ PART II 


lapu 


No. and Date 


Iscued by 


Subject 


No. 


411 S . O . 3789 , dated 7th D : 

cember, 1966 . 
412 . $ . O . 379 ) , dated oth De- 

cember, 1966 . 


Ministry of Information 

and Broadcasting . 
Ministry of Commerce. 


Approvalofthe film as specified 

therein , 


413 S . O . 3791, dated Oh D - Election Commission , 
cember , 1966 , 

India . 


Further inendment to the 
Exports (Control Order , 
1962. 
Designating the Divisional 

Commissioner, Jammu and 
the Divisional Commissioner, 
Srinagar 28 the Officers to 
whom appeals shall lie front 
the decisions of the Regiotre 
tion Officers of the Parliamen 
tary Constituencies , 


ऊपर लिखे असाधारण राजपनो की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक, सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भवन पर भेज दी जाएंगी। मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपत्रों के जारी होने की तारी 
# 10 FET H TT ER que 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
kadent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Linds , Delhi. Indenta Bhould be 
mubmitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of love of 
these Gazettes. 


HTT 1Lao 3- puru ( ii) 

PART II – Section 3 - Sub- section (ii) 
( रक्षा मंत्रालय को गेड़कर ) भारत सरकार के मंत्रालयां और (संघ कंप प्रशासन को जड़ा ) 

केन्द्रीय प्राधिकरणारा भारी किए गए विधिक आषरा और अधिसूचनाएं । 


ftatutory orders and notifications issued by the Ministries of the Govora . 

ment of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and by Centrul 
Authorities ( other than the Administration of Union Territories ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 21st November 1966 
S . O . 3886 , -- In pursuance of section 108 of the Representation of the People 
Act 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order pronounced on the 
8th November, 1986 by the Election Tribunal, Jhunjhunu . 
BEFORE THE MEMBER ELECTION TRIBUNAL , JHUNJHUNU 
SHRI MOHAMMED RAZA ALI KHAN , RH . J . S , 

ELECTION PETITION No . 269 OF 1962 
Ridmalsingh son of Shri Chand Singh caste Rajput resident of village Lama, 
Tehsil Chirawa, District Jhunjhunu - Petitioner . 

Versus 
( 1) Shri Murarka Radhey Shyam Ramkumar son of Shri Murarka Ramkumar 

Shri Niwas , caste Vaishya, resident of Nawalgarh at present at Carmica ] 
Road , Bombay . 


Sak , 8 (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 2 ), 1986 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


2009 


( 2 ) Th . Raghubir Singhji son of Rawan Bishan Singhji, caste Rajput, reşident of 

Bissau at present residing at Bissau House , Hawall Sahar Garbi, Khetri Road , 

Jaipur . 
( 3 ) Shri Ghagi Ram son of Shri Jaita Ram caste Jat , resident of Bas Ghani 

Ramka , Post Office Bagar, District Jhunjhunu . 
( 4 ) Shri Maliram son of Shri Laxmichand, caste Raigar, resident of Ralgar 

Mohalla, Nawalgarh , District Jhunjhunu. 
(5 ) Shri Biharilal Bhartiya son of Shri Rameshwarji Peeramal Arichwal caste 

Brahman resident of Bagar, Dist. Jhunjhunu , 
( 0 ) Shri Loyalka Chiranjilal, Sri Ram Chandra son of Shri Ramchandra caste 

Vaishya resident of Pilani At present residing at Share and Stock Broker 

Stock Exchange, New Building, Appolo Street, Fort Bombay . 
( 7 ) Returning Officer, Shri V . I. Rajgopal I. A . S . ( Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Cong 

tinuency ) at present posted as Director Small Saving at Jaipur - Respondent. 


Election Petition under section 81 of the Representation of People Act, 1981, 
to set aside election of Shri Murarka Radheyshyam Ramkumar , 


PRESENT: 

Shri Girdhar Gopal Bhargava Advocate counsel for the petitioner . 
Shri Ganesh Narain Sharma and Shri Mahabeer Prasad Jain counsel for Res 
pondent No. 1, 
Shri Gokul Prasad Sharma counsel for Respondent No. 2. 

JUDGMENT 
This Election Petition was presented by one Ridmal Singh , an elector in the 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency u / 9 81 of the Representation of People 
Act, 1 51 (hereinafler to be referred as the Act ) , before the Election Commig 
sion , India , New Delhi on 121h April, 1962. In pursuance of section 86 ( 3 ) of the 
Act this petition was sent to this Tribunal for trial. 
The facts giving rise to this petition briefly stated are thege : 
The third general election for the House of People was held in the monte 

of February , 1962. There were six candidates for Jhunjhunu Parlia 
mentary Constituency whose nomination papers were accepted 1 
valid by the Returning Omcer of the said Constituency . The scrutiny 
of the nomination papers was effected by the Returning Omcer on 
22nd January, 1962 and the actual poll took place on 21st, 23rd and 
25th February , 1962. The counting of the ballot papers commenced 
from 26th February , 1962 and the result was declared by the 
Returning Officer on 28th February , 1962. For the sake of convent 
ence, the votes secured by each candidate to the Jhunjhunu Parlia 
mentary Constituency are given below : 


Votes Securod 


( 1 ) Shri Murarka Radhey Shyam Ramkumar Respondent 

No. 1 
( 2 ) Shri Raghubir Singhji Respondent No. 2 
( 3 ) Shri Ghast Ram Respondent No. 3 
(4 ) Shri Mali Ram Respondent No. 4 
(5 ) Shri Beharilal Bhartiya Respondent No. 5 
(6 ) Shri Loyalka Chiranjilal Ramchandra Respondent 

No. 6 


81,051 
77, 591 
71, 551 
24 ,039 
7 ,805 


6 , 276 


As a result of the above announcement Respondent No . 1 Shri Murarka 
Radheyshyam Ramkumar (hereinafter to be referred as Respondent No. 1 ) wag 
declared by the Returning Offrer to be elected by a majority of 3 ,460 votes from 
his nearest rival Shri Raghubirsingh (hereinafter to be referred as Respondent 
No. 2 ) . 


3504 - 


GA 


: OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA %, 1888 


[PART 12 


= 


= 


This petition was originally presented on 12th April, 1962 before the Election 
Commission and was received here on 24th May 1962. There were certain pre 
liminary objections on behalf of the Respondent No. 1 that some essential parti 
culars about the allegations were not given . The amendment of the petition was 
accordingly ordered and the amended petition was presented on 3rd October 1983. 
The additional written statement was filed by Respondent No. 1 on 19th November 
1963 but the Tribunal by its order dated 2nd December 1963 did not entertain 
it . 

The Respondent No. 1 also presented recrimination application on 28th June 
1962 against Respondent No . 2 and its réply was presented on 9th July 1962 

It will appear that the petitioner has made several allegations under various 
paras of the petition . The allegations have been classified under various items 
but instead of making a verbatim repetition of the parag I propose to give a classi 
fled ręşume of the allegations by way of introduction while the allegations in 
their essential details will be dealt with at the appropriate place along with the 
findings of the issues , 


The allegations in the Election Petition may be classified in two main parts , 
the first relates to the improper rejection of the nomination paper of one Shri 
Balji, while the second relates to irregularities in counting, change of polling 
stations and corrupt practices . The allegations in the second part are contained 
in paras 13 and 14 and their respective sub -paras. Para No. 13 consists of 12 sub 
paras of which sub - paras ( i ) to ( v ) and ( xli ) refer to the irregularities in count 
ing, mishandling and tampering with the ballot papers ( covered in issues No. 10 , 
11, 12, 13, 14 and 22 and 23 ,) while sub - paras ( vi ) to ( xi ) of para No . 13 deal 
with the allegations and irregularities as a result of change in polling stations 
and thus depriving the electors of the exercise of their right of franchise, (cover 
ed in issues No. 15 , 16 , 17, 18 19 , 20 and 21 ) . Para No . 14 of the petition is very 
important and deals with the allegations of corrupt practices said to have been 
committed by Respondent No. 1 ( one ) . These allegations are again divided in 
sub - paras ( a ) to ( h ) ( covered by issues No. 24 to No . 30 ) . 


Para No . 14 ( a ) to ( d ) ( covered in Issues No. 24 ( a ) , (b ) ( c ) and ( d ) ] , relate to 
the allegations that Respondent No. 1 made payment of Rs. 5 , 000 to each of the 
eight congress candidates for the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly and also paid 
Rs. 1 ,000 by way of subscription to Congress Party for furthering the cause of 
election of Respondent No. 1 , further the Respondent No . 1 procured 30 brand 
new jeeps, two station -wagons and one buick car for election purposes . 


Allegations in para 14 (d ) . ( 1) , ( ii) , ( iii ) and 14 ( e ) [ covered in issues No, 26 ( a ) . 
( b ) , ( c ) , No. 26 ( a ) , (b ) ] , relate to the depreciation charges of 30 jeeps, 2 station 
wagons and one buick car , ranging upto Rs. 1, 27,000 and expenses of Rs. 18 ,000 
incurred by Respondent No . 1 on hire of 10 jceps and also payment of Rs. 4 , 000 
to the drivers of jeeps, and incurring of expenses of Rs. 36 ,000 on petrol and 
Rs. 3,000 on mobile oil. 

Allegations in para 14 ( f ) ( covered in issuc No. 27) relate with the travelling 
expenses alleged to have been incurred by Respondent No. 1 of 20 salaried em 
ployees which were called by him from outside, 

Allegations in para No. 14 ( g ) ( covered in issue No . 38 ( a ) ( b ) and No, 29 ( a ) 
( b ) refer to the expenses incurred on meetings at various places as well as 
meetings arranged on the occasion of the vişit of Shri Morarji Desai, entailing 
an expenditure of Rs. 10 ,000 and Rs. 5 ,000, respectively . 

Allegations in para No. 14 ( h ) ( covered in issue No. 30 ) deal with regard to 
the alleged messes run at two places, Nawalgarh and Jhunjhunu , by respondent 
No. 1 , who incurred Rs. 12 ,000 towards the expenses of these messes. 

Rest of the paras of the petition Nos . 15 , 16 , 17 refer to the presentation of 
the petition within the time prescribed making security deposit for presenting 
the petition as required by section 117 of the Act and lastly the relief asked for. 

To sum up , the petitioner has challenged the election of Respondent No. 1 
and has prayed that it be declared void and that he may be disqualified on the 
following grounds: 
( 1 ) That the Returning Officer wrongly rejected the nomination paper of 

Balu , as such , the election of Respondent No. 1 is liable to be set 
aside u / s 101 of the Act . 


sec 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


3505 


( 2 ) That there had been irregularities in counting and change of polling 

stations, further there was mishandling and tampering with the 

ballot papers which materially aſſected the result of election , 
( 3 ) That Respondent No. 1 has committed corrupt practices : 
(1) As he has incurred far greater expenses than Rs. 25 ,000 as prescribed 

in Rule 90 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1981. 
( 11 ) That he has committed corrupt practices of incurring or authorising 

expenses in contravention of section 77 of the Act between the 
date of notification calling the election which was 13th January 

1962 and the date of declaration of result on 28th February , 1982. 
The petitioner in the concluding para of the petition has further prayed and 
asked for the relict that election of Respondent No. 1 may be declared void and 
Respondent No . 2 be declared as duly elected candidate for the Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary Constituency and , further Respondent No. 1 be also declared as 
disqualified u / s 140 of the Act (which entails disqualification for membership of 
the Parliament and of the Legislature of any State for a period of six years). 

The Respondent No. 1 filed his written statement on 10th September 1962 be 
fore the election Tribunal which runs into 43 paras. Of these paraş No. 1 to 15 
deal with the preliminary objections with regard to the affidavit Aled along with 
the petition that material farts about some of the allegations have been lacking 
in the petition . In other paras of the written statement the Respondent No 1 
las denied that rejection of the nomination paper of Balji was improper , while 
paras No . 16 to 41 of the written statement contain the parawise replies of the 
allegations made in the petition . 

The Respondent No. 1 has completely denied allegations about irregularities 
in counting, tampering with the ballot papers and change of polling stations. 
He has also denied the corrupt practices as detailed in para No . 14 of the petition . 
In the end the Respondent No. 1 has prayed that the petition is false and fri 
volus and should be dismissed with costs . 

On behalf of the petitioner 77 witnesses have been produced in support of the 
petition and in rebuttal 13 witnesses have been produced and examined before 
the Tribunal and 7 witnesses have been examined on commission on behalt of 
Respondent No. 1. A number of documents have been produced on both the 
aldes but 29 documents have been exhibited on bchalf of the petitioner and 7 
documents have been exhibited on behalf of the Respondent No. 1. 

In support of recrimination application 8 witnesses have been produced on 
behalf of Respondent No. 1 and 7 witnesses have been produced in rebuttal on 
behalf of Respondent No. 2 . 

As many as 38 issues were framed on the pleadings of the parties on 3rd 
December 1963 which are as under : 
( 1 ) Whether the petitioner Shri Ridmalsingh is an elector in the Jhunjhunu 

Parliamentary Constituency and is entitled to present the petition 
( 2 ) Is the affidavit dated 14th August, 1962 in support of the allegations of 

corrupt practices contained in the petition barred by law of limita 

tion ? If so , is the petition not maintainable ? 
( 3 ) Whether the petition docs not disclose a cause of action so far as the 

ground of improper rejection of the nomination paper of Shri Bally 

is concerned ? 
( 4 ) Are the allegations contained in paragraphs No. 1 to 12 and Para 19 , 

sub - para ( ii) of the petition inconsistent with the relief No. 2 and 
are embarrasing and prejudicial to the Respondent No. 1 ? Are they 

Liable to be struck off ? 
( 5 ) Did the Returning Officer fail in his duty at the time of the presenta 

tion of Shri Ballu s nomination paper to satisfy himself whether the 
names and electoral roll rumbers of the candidate and his proposer 
as entered in the nomination paper were the same as entered in the 

olectoral roll and , If so , what is the consequence thereof? 
( 6 ) Did the Returning OMcer fail in his duty to permit Shri Ballu or his 

proposer to correct the entry of his nomination paper and , if so , 
what is the consequence thereof? 


2506 1HL GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


( 7 ) Did the nomination paper of Shri Ballu contain the defects as record 

ed by the Returning Officer ? If so , were these detects of unsubs 

tantial character and the nomination paper was improperly rejected ! 
(8 ) Did the nomination paper of Shri Ballu contain other defects as stated 

in para 11 of the written statement ? If so , were those defects of u 
substantial character and his nomination paper was liable to be reject 

ed for those defects also ? 
(9 ) Did the Returning Officer act illegally in rejecting the nomination 

paper of Shri Ballu , though no candidate , election agent of any 
candidatę or any other person present at the time of scrutiny object 
ed to the nomination paper or to the identity of the proposer or 

Shri Ballu ? If so , what is its effect ? 
( 10 ) Did the Returning Officer fall to observe the provisions of the R . P . Act 

and the Rules as alleged in para No. 13 ( i ) of the petition and the 
events mentioned in the para 13 ( i) spoiled about 10 ,000 votes cast 
in favour of Respondent No. 2 which were later on rejected and 
about 5 , 000 ballot papers got Ink marks which were illegally and 
improperly counted in favour of respondent No. 17 It ko , did it 

materially affect the result of election ? 
( 11) Did the Returning Officer reject thousands of votes cast in favour od 

respondent Nos. 3 to 6 and count the same in their favour ? If so , 

what was the number of such votes ? 
( 12 ) Did the Returning Officer improperly count votcs in favour of respon 

dent No . 1 which deserve to be rejected ? If so , what was their 

number ? How did it affect the result of the election ? 
( 13 ) Did the counting authorities improperly place ballot papers cagt in 

favour of respondent No. 2 in the bundles containing the ballot 
papers cast in favour of respondent No. 1 ? If so , what was the 
number of such ballot papers and how it affected the result of the 

election ? 
(14 ) Did the counting authoritics improperly mix votes cast in favour of 

respondent Nos . 3 to 6 and count the same in their favour ? If 80 
what was the number of such votes and how did it affect the result 

of the election ? 
( 15 ) ( a ) Were the voters of the electoral roll part No . 33 of the Gudha 

Assembly constituency to cost their votes at polling station No. 5 
in Pukhta Dharamsala Bhorki and voters of the electoral roll part 
No. 34 to cast their votes at poliing station No . 6 situate in Gillon 
ki-Dhani in the same constituency according to the official Gazette 

notified list of polling stations u / s 25 of the Act ? 
(b ) Did the Returning Officer ollow the voters of electoral roll NO . 33 to 

cast their votes at polling station No. 6 G )] lon - ki- Dhani and the 
voters or electoral roll part No. 34 to cast their votes at polling 

station No . 5 at Pukhta Dharamsala Bhorki ? 
( c) Whether this change was illegal and votes polled void ? 
( d ) Whether due to this change only 450 voters could cast their votes at 

polling station No. 5 and 536 at polling station No. 67 
( e ) Were any number of voters deprived of their franchise due to this 

change ? 
( 1) Is so , how many ? 
(8 ) How these matters affected the result of the election ? 
( 10 ) Was the Polling station No. 18 changed without notice from Thanmal 

Chunnilal Dharamsal to Durgaram s Dharamsal in Jasrapur ? Did 
the voters not know this change in polling station and they could 
not cast their voteg ? If so , what was the number of such voters and 

how did it affect the result of election ? 
( 17 ) Was the Polling station Bisgau No. 4 changed from Islamia Madarsa 

to Boitramji s Dharamsal Bissaul. If so , were the voters misled by 


tha. (In 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 24, 


PAULA . 


i 


2507 


No 4 


this change and could not cast their votes. It #o , how many and 

how this change affected the election result ? 
( 18 ) ( a ) Were wrong and unauthorised ballot papere used at Kakrana P . S . 

No. 24 and at Mandawa P . S . 53 ? 
(b ) Were such votes cagt at Kakrana P .S . and Mandawa P . S . void and, if 

so , what was their number ? 
( c) What would be the effect of the use of such unauthorised ballot paper 

on the election ? 
( 10 ) Were tendered votes cast at the glection ! If so , how many and whetho 

they were required to be counted and , if not counted , how it affected 
the result of the election ? 


(20 ) Was the Returning Officer required to Issuo any notice to the eletcor 

posted on election duty of the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary constituency 
and he failed in that ? If so , what was the number of such elector 

and how non - issue of the notice affected the result of the election ? 
(21) Whether the authorities entrusted with the dutie, of counting tampered 

with the result- sheets at the time of counting as alleged in para Na 
13 ( xi) of the petition ? If 40 , how did it affect the result of the 

election ? 
(22 ) ( a ) Did the Returning Officer auspend the counting in the night of 28th 

February, 1962 at 11 P . M , and recommence on 27th February , 1963 

at 9 A . M . 
(b ) Were the counted and the doubtful ballot papers not rescaled during 

the interval and , there was tampering of the ballot papers in favour 
of respondent No. 1 during the period of suspension ? If yo , what fa 
its effect ? 


(23 ) Did the Returning Offlcer adjourn the counting of ballot papers 02 

28th February 1962 at 5 A . M , for 5 hours and during that suspension 
doubtful votes were not sealed and they were tampered with in 
favour of respondent No. 1 ? If so , what was the number of such 

voles and what would be its effect on election ? 
( 24 ) ( a ) Did the respondent No. 1 pay Rs. 5 , 000 to each of the eight congres 

cindidates for the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly for furthering 
the cause of his election between 13th January 1982 and 28th Febru 

ary 1962 ? 
(b ) Did the respndan No. 1 pay Rs. 1, 000 by way of subscription to the 

Congress Party for furthering the prospect of his candidature OD 
13th January 1982 or on any other date thereafter before 19th Janu 

ary 1962 ? 
( c ) Did the respondent No. 1 purchase and procure not less than 30 brand 

new jeeps and two brand new station wagon , and use them for his 

election purposes ? 
( d ) Did the respondent No. 1 we one old buick cur and 10 hired jeep . for 

his election purposes ? 
If so , have the above expenses of the hire of jeeps and depreciation charger 

of Station Wagons, jeep , and old buick car not been included in the 
Election Expanses Return of the respondent No. 1 ? What would be 
the effect ? 


( 28 ) ( a ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur depreciation charges of cach Jeep 

betwçen 13th January , 1982 and 28th February 1962 at Rs. 4 ,000 for 

each gtation wagon at Rs. 3. 000 and for old buick car at Rs. 1, 000 ? 
(b ) Was the daily hire of one jeep Rs. 807 
( c ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expenso . of Rs. 18 ,000 for hire of 

10 jeeps till 28th February 1982? 
If so , have these expenses not been shown in the election Uxpenses Retur 

of the Respondent No. 1 and what would be its attoot on tho clection ! 


1508 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1968 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


[PART II – 


( 26 ) ( a ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expenses of Rs. 4 ,000 for pay of 

drivers and cleaners of 30 jecps and one buick car ? 
( b ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur expenses of Rs. 36 ,000 for petrol and 

Rs. 3 , 000 for Mobil - oil used between 13th January 1962 and 28th 

February 1962 ? 
If so , have these expenses not been shown in the Election Expenses Return 

of the respondent No . 1 ? What would be its effect ? 
( 27 ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur expenses of Rs. 4 ,000 for travelling 

and other purposes of his 20 salaried employees between 13th Janu 
ary 1962 and 28th February 1962 ? If so , have these expenses not been 

shown in his return of election Expenses ? What would be its effect ? 
( 28 ) ( a ) Whether the respondent No . 1 held election meetings in Jhunjhunu 

parliamentary constituency on different dates from 19th January 
1962 to 19th February 1962 at places mentioned in para 14 ( g ) ( i ) of 
the election petition ? If so , whether the respondent No . 1 incurred 

expenses of Rs. 10 , 000 for such meetings . 
(b ) Have these expenses not been shown in the Return of Election 

Expenses and what would be its effect on the election ? 
( 29 ) ( a ) Did Shri Morarji Desai come to sponsor the cause of election of 

respondent No. 1 and did the respondent No, l arrange meetings for 

Shri Morarji Desai, at Nawalgarh , Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau ? 
( b ) Did the respondent No. 1 incur the expenses for the said meetings and 

feeding of Shri Morarji Desai and his party amounting to Rs. 5 ,000 ? 


If so , have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses return 

and what would be its effect ? 


( 80 ) Was the respondent No. 1 running two messes at Jhunjhunu and Nawal 

garh towns from 29th January 1962 and he incurred expenses of 
Rs. 12 , 000 on both those messes upto 28th February 1962 ? If so , 
have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses return 

and what would be its effect on the election ? 
(31) Whether the petition does not disclose a cause of action even after 

the amendments made in the election petition go far with respect to 
the the corrupt practices set out in Paras 14 ( b ) , 14 ( c ) , 14 ( d ) ( i) , 
14 ( d ) ( ii ) , 14 ( d ) ( iii ) . 14 ( e ) , 14 ( 1 ) ( ii ) and 14 ( h ) ? If so , what is its 

effect ? 
( 32 ) Did the respondent No. 2 incur expenses for contesting the parliamen 

tary and assembly elections Seats more than Rs. 25 ,000 ? If so , is it 
against law and amounts to a corrupt practice ? What would be ito 
effect ? 


(33 ) Did the respondent No . 2 show more expenses for his aggembly elec 

tion than actually incurred and legs for the parliamentary seat? I 
60 , what was the amount incurred for parliamentary election ? What 

would be the effect of this ? 
( 34 ) Did the respondent No. 2 incur expenses as stated in para 3 and its sub 

paras of the recrimination application Aled by the respondent No. 1 ? 
Have these expenses not been shown in the election expenses Return 

of the respondent No. 2 ? If so , what would be its effect ? 
( 35 ) Did the respondent No. 2 incur the expenses as mentioned in para No . 

4 and its sub - paras of the recrimination ? If so , what would be its 

effect ? 
( 36 ) Did the respondent No. 2 commit the acts of bribery as contained in 

para No . 4 of the recrimination application ? If so , what would be 

its effect ? 
( 37) Is the recrimination petition not entertainable as it was not presented 

to the authority entitled to receive it ? If so , what would be its 

effect ? 
( 16 ) To what roliof the parties are entitled ? 


Sac. 811i); 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


3500 


Of the above issues No . 1 to 9 have been already disposed of by this Tribunal 
Issue No. 1 was not contested , while issues No. 2 and 4 are based on the pre 
liminary objections of Respondent No, I about limitation and allcgations in paras 
No . 12 and 13 being inconsistent with the relief asked for . These have been 
decided on 16th December 1963 . 

The issues No. 3 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 and 9 relate to rejection of Balji s nomination 
paper . These have been also disposed of on 23rd December 1963 by this Tribunal, 
while deciding election Petition No, 295 of 1962 . An appeal against the order of 
the Tribunal has been also rejected by the Hon ble Rajasthan High Court vide its 
judgment dated 26th August 1904 and reported in A .I. R . 1965 Rajasthan Page 23 . 

Thus the issues from 1 to 9 have been already disposed of and only the issues 
under part II which are Nos, 10 to 32 will form subject matter of this judgment. 
The issues from 33 to 37 relate to points raised in recrimination application filed 
by Respondent No, I and reply thereto by Respondent No. 2 are also covered in 
this Judgment. 
Finding of Issue No. 10 

This isgue relates to para 13 ( 1) of the petition . The petitioner has alleged 
that on 26th February 1982 counting commenced at Police Lines , Jhunjhunu 
under the tents . There were 90 hallot hoxes which were placed on 90 tables . 
No sooner counting commenced there were heavy rains followed by hailstorm . 
Thus the ballot papers got wet and ink sprinkled on the ballot papers, besides , 
there were also ink marks by mishandling of the ballot papers . Further the 
ballot papers were collected haphazardly in great hurry . These ballot papers 
because of rains had to be carried inside the rooms but they were neither placed 
in the ballot boxes nor duly sealed , thus there was clear contravention of rule 90 
of the Conduct of Election Rules , 1961 (hereinafter to be referred as Rules ) . 
Since the ballot papers were left in possession of the counting parties , the agente 
of respondent No. 1 manipulated and spoiled the votes cast in favour of respondent 
No. 2 which were about 10 , 000 in number , and later on rejected . It is further 
urged that there were 5 , 000 ballot papers which were plain , had got ink mark , 
but were illegally counted in favour of respondent No. 1 . Thus there was non 
compliance of Act and Rules , by the Returning Officer which materially affected 
the result of election . 

It has been further urged that respondent No . 1 has not denied the fact that 
there were rains and the ballot papers were removed from the tents to the rooms. 
In this connection attention has been drawn to the statement of the Returning 
Oncer Shri V . I. Rajagopal, the then Collector , Jhunjhunu to show that his replies 
are non - committal in nature , while special reference has been made to his replies 
to questions No. 16 and No , 17 , On behalf of respondent No . 1 it has been urged 
that there is no evidence on record from the petitioner s side that ballot paper 
were spoiled and that no evidence has been led by the petitioner to substantiate 
his allegations. 

I have gone through the evidence led by the parties on this point. The most 
important witness which could be from petitioner s side is P . W . 78 Amar singh . 
He was election agent of Shri Raghuveersingh respondent No. 2 . In his cross 
examination he has admitted that during the counting and after, he did not see 
anyone committing any mischiet although he had his own doubts . This shows that 
the witness was very vigilant but could not find any mischier being committed . 
The next important witness is Durgasingh P . W , 44 . He was also an election agent 
who has deposed that he saw many irregularities being committed but did not 
make any complaint. It may seem strange that Amarsingh who had certain doubts 
about the manipulations being committed in the ballot papers while Durgaging 
who noted other irregularities , but both remained silent and did not bring these to 
the notice of the Returning Omcer . This plainly shows that it there had been any 
manipulations or irregularities , they would have gurely brought to the notice of the 
Returning Omcer . As for other witnesses examined by the petitioner they are 
Ghasiram P . W . 11 , Shriram P . W . 45 and Ramswroop P . W 64 . Ghasiram P . W . 11 
says that he did not see any irregularity being committed during the counting , 
Shriram P . W . 45 also does not make mention of any Irregularity . As for the 
evidence of Ramswroop P . W . 64 it is quite vague and in no way proves the peti 
tioner s contention more so . In his cross -examination he has admitted that he 
receives pension from respondent No. 2 and thus he is an interested witness . 

It may be mentioned that during the trial of this petition an application was 
presented by the petitioner on 22nd February , 1964 under tille 93 for the scrutiny 
and Inspection of ballot papers . The Tribunal allowed this application and the 


asio IHI GAZETTI OJ INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1968 / PAUSA 3 , 1888 


PAXT II 


scrutiny and inspection before the Tribunal continued from petitioner s side for 
about a week commencing from 23rd March 1964. But it may be significantly 
nentioned that not a single ballot paper could be pointed which had either been 
spoiled or which was though blank but ink marks were made upon it and thus. 
counted in favour of respondent No, 1 , 


Now coming to the replies to the question Nos . 18 and 17 in the statement of 
Shri Rajagopal, Returning Omcer , as referred to by the petitioner, The Returning , 
Officer has stated that the ballot papers were removed in the minimum time pop 
wbie and that he does not remember whether they were scaled or not. But when 
his statement as a whole is read , it may appear that in his reply to question 18 he 
las deposed that the agents of the parties were present on the spot and none of 
them complained or drew his attention or any of the Assistant Returning Officery 
that any ballot paper had got spoilt by getting wet or otherwise. From the above 
it would appear that the petitioner has failed to prove that 10 , 000 ballot papers 
cast in favour of respondent No . 2, were spoilt and that 5 , 000 ballot papers cast in 
tavour of respondent No. 1 had got ink marks and were illegally OT improperly 
counted in favour of respondent No . 1 . The issue lo accordiagly decided against 
the petitioner , 


Pinding of issue No, 11 


This isgue relate . to para No. 13 (11) of the petition . It is a part of issue No. 10 . 
The burden of this issue is also on the petitioner . It is urged on behalf of the 
petitioner that thousands of votes which had been cast in favour of respondents 
No. 2 and No. 3 were improperly rejected . The number of votes rejected , ag, 
alleged in the petition is 12352 . As already stated that on an application by the 
petitioner the Tribunal allowed inspection and scrutiny which continued for a out 

week from 23rd March 1964, but the petitioner failed to point out a sing e ballot 
paper which was improperly rejected , the issue is accordingly decided against the 
petitioner . 
Tinding of issue No. 12 


This lgsuo relates to para No. 13 ( 111) of the petition , It has been urged by the 
petitioner that 10 ,000 votes cast in favour of respondent No . 1 were invalid and 
should have been rojected and tais materially ailected the result of the election . 
In this connection one has to see whether out of the 81,051 votes cast in favour of 
respondent No. 1 , 10 ,000 votes were really invalid and should have been rejected . 
In this connection learned counsel for the petitioner has relied on the statement 

Dureasingn P . W . 44 and I have gone through his statement. In his examination 
in - chief he has deposed that he was the counting agent of respondent No . 2 ( Th . 
Raghuveersingh ) and was present on the day of counting till 5 . 30 pm . He has 
deposed that some of the ballot papers cast in favour of respondent No . 1 bearing 
double marks which ought to have been rejected by the counting parties were 
treated as valid , Similarly ballot papers bearing the cross for Th , Raghuveersingh 
respondent No. 2 were included in the bundles of ballot papers of Shri Murorka 
respondent No. 1. The witness has a . so relerred to the number of ballot papers of 
respondent No . 1 bearing double marks which were 650 , besides 350 ballot papers 
which were cast in favour of Th , Raghuvecrsingh respondent No. ? were counted 
in favour of Shri Murarka respondent No . 1 . But in his cross -examination the 
witness has admitted that in spite of all this he did not mention about these 
Irregularities to Shri Azhar Hussain agent of respondent No. 2 nor brought to the 
notice of other officers who were present at the time of counting. As for the 
number ot ballot papers referred to above he admits that he did not actually 
count them but had given the approximate number . The witness also failed to 
nention the polling station , the place and the village when these ballot papers 
were cast. This shows that the statement of the witness is quite vague . It will 
thus appear out of the twenty two counting agents of respondent No . 2 , only one 
could be produced as i witness, who says about the irregularities being committed 
during the counting. But surprisingly enough this witness also states that he 
nentioned about these Irregularities to Azhar Hussain agent of respondent No. 2 
three or four days after the election result had been announced . It may appear 
strange that the witness who according to his own version had seen the Irregul 
arities being committed did neither mention to Azhar Hussain nor any other apent 
of respondent No . 2 who were present during the counting. In the concluding part 
of his cross- examination he has given out that the petitioner ls driver of Th . 
Raghuveersingh respondent No . 2 . The petitioner has failed to discharge the 
burden upon him and the issue is decided accordingly . 


Sac. (i )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966/ PALSA 3, 1688 


3511.. 


Finding of issue No. 13 

This issue relate to para No. 13 (iv ) of the petition . It is urged by the petitioner 
that the authorities incharge of the counting, improperly placed about 5 , 000 ballot 
papers in favour of respondent No . 1 which the Returning Omcer 2 . 80 counted in 
tavour of respondent No . 1, thus it materially affected the result of election . The 
learned counsel for the petitioner has relied on the statement of two witnesses 
Ghasiram P . W . 11 and Shriram P . W . 45 . I have closely gone through the state 
ments of both the witnesses . Ghaşiram P . W . 11 no where deposes that 5 ,000 votes 
cast in favour of respondent No . 2 were improperly placed in the bundle of the 
ballot papers cast in favour of respondent No. 1. In his examination - in - chict he 
atates that when it began to rain , counting was suspended for some time, tho 
balot papers were neither placed in the boxes nor they were sealed . But he admits 
that he did not make any complaint in the inalter to anybody. It may seem 
quite unnatural that witness Ghasiram who was himself a candidate for election 
and is respondent No . 3 , and had secured 71 , 560 votes , should have remained in 
different to liregularities in counting and did not make any complaint about them 
to the Returning Officer or his assislants . It also appears from his statement that 
he told about these irregularities to his agent Shri Vishnudutt and asked him to 
make coinplaint in the matter but he does not know whether any complaint was 
made or not . Anyway from the statement of this witness it is not proved that 
5 ,000 votes which had been cast in favour of respondent No. 2 had been improper 
ly placed in the bundies of votes cast in favour of respondent No . 1. 

Coming to the statement of Shriram P . W . 45 , he has deposed that when the 
courting had been stopped for some time, the boxes were not sealed but in his 
cross - examination he says that he had brought the irregularities committed by 
counting authorities to the notice of respondent No. 2 Th . Raghuveersingh . The 
witness has admitted that the ballot papers of Th . Raghuveersingh had been placed 
in the bundles of the ballot papers cast in favour of other candidates but he could 
neither mention the number of ballot papers nor he could say about the bundle of 
the ballot papers or the name of the citu didales . It may be also mentioned that the 
witness has admitted that he was in service or Thikana Bissau from 1938 to 1955 
and served there in the capacity of Tehsildar and is now drawine pension from 
Th . Raghuveersingh . There is not a single witoes from pctitioner s side who could 
prove that 5 ,000 ballot papers of respundent No, 2 had been improperly placed in 
the bundics of ballot papers of respondent No, 1. On a reading of the statement of 
both the witnesses It is crystal clear that both are interested witnesses . They are 
under the influence of respondent No. 2 and thus what they had deposed in ex 
amination - in - chier was shaken in their cross -examination . The petitioner has failed 
to discharge the burden of tho issue which is decided against him , 
Finding of issue No. 14 

This issue relates to para No. 13 ( v ) of the petition . The petitioner has urged 
that 5000 votes cast in favour of respondent No . 2 were improperly mixed with the 
votos of respondent No. 3 and respondent No. 6 and were counted in their favvur, 
This ma erlally affected the result of the election . In other words by this improper 
mixing of votes respondent No. 2 got 5000 votes less than respondent No . 1 , which 
were actually casi in his favour. The learned counsel for the respondent has rclied 
on the statements of witnesses P . W . 11 , and P . W 45 . Ag already stated that I have 
perused the stalement of these witnesses and there is nothing to show that 5000 
votes cast in favour of respondent No . 2 were improperly mixed with the votes 
cast in favour of respondents No 3 and 6 and thus the petitioner has failed to 
prove the allegation , 

Lastly before concluding my findings on issues No . 10 to 14, which are based on 
the allegations for improper counting and mishandling of the ballot papers , I may 
stress that the witnesses have fai ed to grove the mishandling of ballot papers and 
Irregularities in the counting of the votes . Besides the election agents as well as 
counting agents of the respondent No. 2 have clearly admitted that they did not 
either make any complaint at the material time or made a request to the authorities 
for rechecking and scrutinizing of ballot papers alleged to have been mishandled . 
Thus the only inference deduceable from all this is that the allegation is an after 
thought otherwise it would have been brought to the notice of the authorities con 
cerned . In this connection I may also refer to the Punjab Legislature Counct] 
Ferozepur case ( M . R .) Pir Akbar All Vs. Chaudhri Najib Uddin P 80 , which has 
been considered by the Election Tribunal, Alwar in case Election Petition No. 460 
of 1957 — Raja Mansingh & otherg Vs. Shri Abid Ali & another [ reported in Rajas 
than Gazette dated 2nd July , 1959 Part 8 ( d ) Pago 147 ( 187) ]. In the above referred 


3512 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1858 


[ PART II 


Punjab Legislative Council case it has been held that a fallure of the petitioner and 
his agents to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the commission of a 
corrupt practice at the time is a clear indication of the falsity of the evidence . 
Further it may also be signilicantly pointed , that it is the duty of the petitioner 
to bring to the notice of the Returning Officer at the time of the counting of votes 
if he thinks that there is some mishandling of the votes or that irregularities are 
committed . The petitioner has failed to discharge the onus about the irregularities 
or mishandling of the ballot papers and i And the issue accordingly . 
Finding of issue No. 15 

Issues No . 15 to 20 deal with regard to the irregularities about change of polling 
stations without due notice and the use of unauthorised ballot papers at the polling. 

Issue No . 15 relates to the para No . 13 ( vi) of the petition . This issue is sub 
divided in seven parts i. e . ( a ) to ( g ), of these issue No . 15 ( a ) is the main issue and 
the determination of the rest of the issues is based on the finding of issue 
No . 15 ( a ) : – 

It has been urged on behalf of the petitioner that the Returning Omcer , 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency had notifled list of polling stations in the 
official gazette as required u / s 85 of the Act. According to the norification the 
voters of the electoral roll part No . 33 of the Gudha Assembly Constituency were 
to cast their votes at polling station No. 5 situated in Pukhta Dharamsala Bhorki 
while the voters of electoral roll part 34 were to cast their votes at polling station 
No . 6 which was situated at Gllon -ki- Dhani in Gudha Constituency . But the 
Returning Omcer without regard to the provisions of the Act and Rules made a 
change at the last moment and allowed the voters of electoral roll part No. 33 to 
cast their votes at polling station No. 6 Instead of polling station No . 8 and also 
asked the voters of part No. 34 to cast thcir votes at polling station No. 5 Instead 
of polling station No. 6 . Thus by this change instead of 910 votes only 450 votes 
were cast at polling station No. 5 , while at pooling station No. 6 only 536 votes 
were cast as against 887 . Thus at both the polling stations only 986 votes were 
cast and 820 voters were deprived of their right of franchise . In support of this 
plea the petitioner has examined 7 witnesses which are Madansingh P . W . 18 , 
Ramlal P . W . 19 , Ghisaram P . W . 54, Mehtabsingh P . W . 56 , Badri Prasad P . W : 57, 
Lalsingh P . W . 58 and Ridmalsingh P . W . 77 . These witnesses have been adduced to 
prove that they were voters but could not exercise their right of franchise because 
of the change of the polling stations at the last moment. 

Before I may discuss the evidence produced by the petitioner I Arst deal with 
the legal aspect of the matter. The learned counsel for the petitioner in this con 
inection has referred to A . I. R . 1959 Assam 128 wherein it has been held that whert 
an election is held at a polling station , which was not published as directed by the 
Election Commission , it is in substance a non - compliance with the provisions of 
section 25 of the Act . And if the polling station is proved to have been shifted 
after the publication of the list of the polling centres from one place to another , 
there is non - compliance of the provisions of section 57 of the Act . It has been 
further provided that in such a case the election of the returned candidate will be 
declared void it the non - compliance with the provisions of the Act or the Rules or 
orders made thereunder has materlally affected the result of the election . 

In the first place assuming that 812 voters failed to exercise their 
right of franchise simply due to change of polling station , and that 
all these would have voted for the respondent No. 2, even then it would not 
have materially affected the result of election because respondent No. 1 secured 
3460 votes more than respondent No . 2 . As for the Assam citation relied upon by 
the learned counsel for the petitioner I may point out that it has no application 
to the circumstances of the present case . The mere argument that the remaining 
voters would have also voted in favour of particular candidate is nothing but 
surmise and such surmises cannot be taken as materially affecting the result of 
election . It may be significantly remarked that in the Assam case there was change 
of polling station from one village to the other at an appreciable distance and even 
outside the constituency and the voters could not know the place where they were 
to cast their votes . In the present case only places of polling stations in the same 
village was changed and which were not at a great distance and the voters could 
easily know the changed polling station in the small village . Both Bhorki and 
Gllon -ki-Dhani, the two villages where a change had been made in place of polling 
station are very small villages and the voters could easily cast their votes at the 
changed polling stations . 

Now coming to the actual evidence adduced on behalf of the petitioner. Or 
the eight witnesses examined , geven are residents of Bhork . There the voters of 


Su . . 


. G 


OF 


. 


24 , . 


. 


. . 


. 


- 


- 


- 


electoral roll part No . 33 were to cast their votes at polling station No. 5 . Two 
witnesses P , W . 18 Madan Singh and P . W . 19 Ramlal have deposed that they had 
cast their votes at the changed polling station Gllon -ki-Dhani. Not only this but 
even their iamly dienbeis had also cast their votes . P . W , 55 Risalsingh and 
P . W . 56 Mehlahsingh have stated that they did not cast their votes but their family 
members häd cast their votes. P . W . 54 Ghisaram has also admitted that all the 
voters of the village belonging to Bhorki had gone to Gllon -ki- Dhani the changed 
polling station and had cast their votes. From a bare reference of the statements 
of the ahove witnesses it will transpire that inspite of the change of the polling 
station , the voters exercised their right of franchise . 

The Petitioner in order to prove his contention that 812 voters were deprived 
of the right of franchise should have produced such witnesses who could have 
deposed that as a result of the change in polling stations they were deprived of 
their right of franchise . From a perusal of the statements of the above witnesses 
it will appear that even such witnesses who did not cast their votes for one reason 
or other , their family members inspite of the change in po ]ling station did cxercise 
their right of franchise . 


It may further be mentioned that not a single witness has appeared in the 
witness box who could say that simply as a result of change of polling stations 
he failed to cast hiş yote . As I have already mentioned that taking the petitioner s 
case at its best and assuming that 812 voters were deprived of their right of 
franchise , the number of yoters so deprived , does not materially affect the result 
of election and , as such , issues No. 15 ( a ) to 15 ( 8 ) are decided against the petitioner . 
Finding of issue No. 18 

This issue relates to para No. 13 (vii ) of the petition . It has been urged on 
behalf of the petitioner that in Khetri Assembly Constituency one polling station 
was notified at village Jasrapur in Thanmal Chunnilal Dharamsala but later on 
the polling station was changed to some other Dharamsala in the same village. 
The voters at this place were 894 but no yoting was made and the voters could 
not cast their votes. Had there been no change in the polling station , 894 votes 
would have cast in favour of respondent No, 2 . But no evidence has been led by 
the petitioner in support of this contention . As I have already pointed out in my 
finding of issue No. 15 , that the allegation of the kind that yoters deprived of the 
right of franchise would have also voted in favour of a particular candidate is . 
nothing but a surmise and such surmises are intenabie and devoid of any force . 
There is also no corroboration on record that by change in the polling station in 
village Jasrapur votes could not be cast . It may also be pointed that Jasrapur is . 
a small village and change of polling station in the very village from one Dharam 
gala to another cannot maizri:illy ¿ fect the casting of the votes. The issue is , 
therefore , found against the petitioner, 
Finding of issue No. 17 


This issue is based on para No . 13 ( vit) (b ) of the petition . The petitioner s . 
contention is that in Khetri Assembly Constituency in Babai village pol, ing station 
No. 29 was originally in Dharamsala Tiwariyan but it was changed to some other 
place. The number oť voters who were to cast their votes at this place was 900 
and if there had been no change of the polling station , all he 900 voters would 
have cast their votes hut ony 510 persons cast their votes while 490 were de 
prived of their right of franchise. 


Similarly in Mandawa Assembly Constituency in Bissau a polling station wag 
originally notifed in Islamia Marlarsa but later changed to Boitram -ki- Dharamsala . 
There were 950 yoters who were to cast their votes at this polling station but . 
because of the change only 556 voters could exercise their right of franchise and 
394 voters were deprived of it. Thus at both the polling stations number of voters 
who could not exercise their right of franchise was 884 . The petitioner did not 
examine any witness to show that as a result of change of both the polling stations, 
884 voters could not cast their votes . It is a mere conjecture that if the voters had 
cast their votes , they would have cast in favour of respondent No. 2 , The 
issue is accordingly decided against the petitioner . 


Finding of issue No. 18 

This issue relates to para 13 ( vili) of the petition , The petitioner s contention . 
is that unauthorised ballot papers were used at two polling stations. In Gudba . 
Assembly Constitutency at Kakrana polling station No. 24 ballot papers No, 596981. 


: 


4 


24 , 


VPA 


3 . 


i 


(PART IL 


- to 597100 were unauthorised . While in Mandawa Assembly Constituency at 
Mandawa polling station No . 53 the ballot papers from numbers 597881 to 598000 
werc also unauthorised. Thus the total 240 votes were void . In this connection 
reference has been made of rule 56 ( i ) ( g ) but there is no evidence whatsoever on 
this point. Assuming that the ballot papers were unauthorised , but it has not been 
shown that those ballot papers 11 had not been declared yuid , would have been 
cast in favour of respondent No. 2 . The petitioner s contention that these votes 
would have been cast in favour of respondent No . 2 is merely a conjecture and a 
guess work for which there is no place , the issue is accordingly found against the 
petitioner . 


Finding of issue No. 19 

This issue relates to para No. 13 (ix ) of the petition but the Icarned counsel for 
the petitioner did not press this issue during the course of arguments and , as such 
it is found against the petitioner . 


Finding of issue No . 20 


This issue relates to para No. 13 ( x ) of the petition . The petitioner s contention 
is that the Teturning Officer did not issue any notice to the Government employces 
of Jhunjhunu Parliamentary constituency , who were posted on election duty . The 
number of such voters on election duty was 1491 who were working in 231 parties. 
It is urged that without the issue of such notice all these voters were deprived of 
their right of franchise . Had a notice been issued to them , they would have 
exercised their right of franchise by postal ballots . In this connection I may refor 
to rule 20 of the Conduct of Election Rules , which provides that a voter who is on 
election duty It he wants to exercise his right of franchise he should send an appll 
cation as prescribed in torm No. 12 to the Returning Oncer . On receipt of such 
application in the prescribed form , it the Returning Officer is satisfied that the 
applicant 19 a voter and that he has been posted on election duty , then a ballot 
paper will be issued to him . But here the petitioner could not point out the 
name of a single Government employee out of the 1491 persons posted on election 
duty who applied in the prescribed form No . 12 and inspite of such application , 
ballot paper was not issued to him . It was the duty of the person . posted on 
election duty to apply for the lsgue of ballot papers in the prescribed form and . 
as such , no responsibility can be laid on the Returning Omrer. This issue is ac 
cordingly decided - gainst the petitioner. 
Finding of losue No. 21 

This issue relates to allegations made in para No . 13 (xl ) of the petition . It 
has been urged by the petitioner that at the close of polls every Presiding Officer 
has to prepare a ballot paper account in form No . 10 which he has to enclose in 
a separate cover with the concerned ballot papers which are sent in accordance 
with rule 45 . After the ballot papers are counted , the ballot papers account is 
signed by the Returning Omcer as well as the counting supervisors. But in the 
following cases the form No . 18 do not bear the signature of the counting super 
vigors and in some cases do not bear even the signatures of Returning Officer : 

1. Polling Station No. 44 Chirawa - Pilani Asgembly Constituency 
2 . Polling Station No. 24 Dhol Khedu - Gudha Assembly Constituency 
3. Polling Station No . 13 Kakrana - Gudha Assembly Constituency . Fort No . 

18 of the above polling stations do not bear the signature of the Presid 

Ing Oficers 
4 . Form No. 16 of polling station No. 11 of Gudha Aggembly Constituency 

seems to have been tampered with 
5 . Form No . 10 of Polling Stations No. 53 and 54 of Khetri Assembly Cons 

tituency do not bear the signatures of Counting Supervisors. 
6 . Form No. 18 of Polling Station No . 33 of Surajgarh Assembly Constituency 

do not bear the signature of Counting Supervisor. 
7. Form No . 16 of Polling Station No. 22 , Nawalgarh Assembly Constituency 

do not bear signature of the Returning Officer 
8 . Form No. 16 of Polling station No. 5 of Gudha Assembly Constituency 

replaced by & hand -written form . 
It has been further urged that since the signatures of the counting supervisors 
or the Returning Officer were not made on form No . 16 of polling station No. 1.3 
and No. 24 of Gudha Assembly Constituency they seem to have been tampered with 


SEC . 9/ 11) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAIJSA 3, 3888 


3515 


- 


which follows that the result sheets have been also tampered with . It has been 
pointed out that at the coinmencement or the counting of the votes of the Jhun 
jhunu Parliamentary Constitucncy when hnilot papers were opened , respondent 
No. 2 or his agents who were present at the spat, did not make such complaint 
Further by a mere omission of signatures on ballot papers account, it cannot be 
inferred that the account or result sheets were at all tampered with . It will be 
appreclated that in a Parliamentary Constituency where the nuinber of polline 
stations runs to 231 , an ornission of signatures on ballot papers account of 6 or 
7 polling stations is not material, more so when it was not reported to the Return 
ing Officer or Counting Supervisor. The issue is, therefore , decided against the 
petitioner, 


Finding of issue No, 22 (a ) and No . 23 


These issues relate to para No. 13 (xii ) of the petition . It has been urged on 
behalf of the petitioner that counting of ballot papers of Jhunjhunu Parliamentary 
Constituency commenced at Jhunjhunu on 28th February , 1962 which continued 
upto 11 p . m ., it then again commenced on 27th February at 9 a .m . It is urged 
that during the guspension of counting the ballot papers were not sealed as pro 
vided by rule 60 and thus there was a tampering of ballot papers in favour of 
respondent No . 1 . Again on 28th February the Returning Oncer suspended and 
adjourned the counting at 5 a . m . for 5 hours It is further urged that 
during the 5 hours when the counting was suspended and when the election agents 
of respondent Nos . 2 to 6 hard rome from the counting place , 6000 doubtful ballot 
papers were tampcred with in favour of respondent No. 1. 


Rule 60 provides that the Returning Omcer ghall as far as practicable proceed 
rontinuously with the counting In case he has to suspend counting he will keep 
the ballot papers and other papers packed and sealed with his own seal and seals 
of such candidates and elction agents as desire to affix their own seals . It appear 
that there could be no objection for suspending the counting but what the peti 
tioner objects is that ballot papers had been tampered with during the period of 
suspension of counting both on 26th and 28th February 1962. In this connection 
I may refer to the statement of P . W . 76 Amarsingh . He has deposed that except 
that there was no seal on the hallot papers there was no other defert . In his cross 
examination he further deposed that he did not see anyone making any mischied 
or committing any malpractice or tampering with the ballot papers . Ghasiram 
P . W . 11 is also an important witness as he himself was a candidate from Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary constituency . He says that he did not see that any wrong had hap . 
pened . The statements of Shri Ram P . W . 45 and Ramswroop P . W . 04 do not throw 
any light on the matter . Durgasingh P . W . 44 says that he saw various wrongs 
being done but did not make any complaint. Similarly Ramgwroop P . W 64 who 
was also a counting agent of respondent No . 2 admits that he did not mention 
of the wrongs to the Returninn Officer or the Assistant Returning Officers present 
on the spot . All these allegations simply show that they are after thought and 
the petitioner has failed to substantiate them . The issue is accordingly decided 
against the petitioner . 


Finding of issue No 24 


Before I deal with issue No. 24 It is worthwhile to give an analysis of the parts 
of the petition on which issues Nuis 24 to 29 are based , Para No . 14 comprises of 
eight sub -paragraphs on which nine issues corainencin : from Nos . 24 to 32 have been 
tramod . Of the nine tesues issues Nos . 24 . 25 . 28 . 28 and 29 have been split in 
further gub -issues. Thus Issue No . 24 is classifed into 4 issues ( a ) to ( a ) . Issuo 
No . 25 classified into 3 isgues ( a ) to ( c ) , issue No. 26 has two parts ( a ) and ( b ) 
issue No, 28 has two parts ( a ) and ( b ) , again issue No. 29 is split in two parts 
( a ) and ( b ) . All the above mentioned issues refer to one or other corrupt 
practices . 


Now coming to the Anding with regard to these issues , I may refer to section 
100 of the Act which deals with prounris on the basis of which an election may be 
declared vold . The relevant portion of section 100 is as under: 

" Section 100 — Grounds for declaring election to be vold : 
( 1) Şubject to the provisions of sub -section ( 2) 1f the Tribunal is of 

opinion , 
(a ) ... 


- 


: 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 8, 1888 


[Part 11 


(b ) that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candi 

date or his election agent or by any other person with the consent 

of a returned candidata or his election agent; 
( c ) .. . 


( d ) . .. 


the Tribunal shall declare the election of the returned candidate to bem 

void ." 


Further the corrupt practices are detailed in section 123 of the Act. These 
corrupt practices have been classified in 7 major heads some of these are referred 
in the petition before this Tribunal, As for discharge of burden of proof about the 
commitment of corrupt practice , it may be mentioned that it is well - settled that 
an enquiry into the allegations about the commission of corrupt practices like those 
enumerated in section 123 of Act 1951, is of a quasi criminal nature and the evi 
dence required to prove such allegations does not fall short of the standard required 
to prove a criminal charge. The onus lles on the petitioner to prove such allega 
tions of corrupt practices made by him and in case of doubt the benefit goes to the 
respondent as it goes to an accused in a criminal trial. It is a rule of prudence 
which is well- settled by this time that the evidence of an accomplice being tainted 
generally requires corroboration before it is acted upon and a finding in favour of 
any corrupt practice is given hy a Tribunal, In this connection I may refer to an 
important ruling of the Rajasthan High Court reported in A . I. R . 1964 ( 1984 ) Raj. 
P . 21 wherein it has been held that: 


" When a candidate for election , either to the State Legislature or the Parlia 

ment, is charged with the commission of any corrupt practice , the 
charge is almost in all respects similar to a criminal charge as the law 
prescribes severe punishment for it. Hence the criterion to assess 
the evidence must also be the same as in criminal case and the evi 
dence must establish the charges conclusively beyond all reasonable 
doubt. " 


All the High Courts are at one on this principle that the burden to prove 
corrupt practices on the person who alleges it and in this connection I may refer 
to A . I. R . 1964 M . P . Page 92 / 93 wherein it has been laid down that: 
" It is now firmly settled that the burden of establishing a corrupt practice 

is on the person alleging it and that it must be established beyond 
reasonable doubt by clear and positive evidence . A conclusion on a 
charge of corrupt practice cannot be based on mere conjectures or 

surmises which cannot take the place of legal evidence." 
The game principle has been reiterated in E .L .R . 22 Page 249 In more unequivocal 
terms: 
" The onus of proving corrupt practices lies on those who assert their com 

mission and they have to be established beyond the possibility of a 
reasonable doubt, The evidence in their support need not necessarily 
be direct, but it is well settled that circumstantial evidence and the 
inference deducible therefrom must be such as to lead to the only 
reasonable conclusion of the commission of the corrupt practices 
alleged . No conjecture or surmisc, however , attractive or even plau 
sible can take the place of proof, and if two equally reasonable infer 
enres or conclusions are possible , one innocent and the other guilty , 
the former should nomarlly prevail." 


Again in dealing with the allegations by the Election Tribunal about the com 
mission of I vrrupt practices I may further refer to the pronouncement ot Supreme 
Court reported in AIR , 1966 S . C . Page 773 wherein their Lordships of the Supreme 
Court have held that : 
" Where an Election Tribunal deals with allegations about the commission 

of corrupt practices by a returned candidate , the charges framed are 
in the nature of quasi- criminal charges . The proof of the charge has 
a double consequence ; the section of the returned candidate is set 
asicle and he incurred subsequent disqualification as well. Therefore, 
when a charge of this kind is framed aaginst the returned candidate . 

it has to be proved satisfactorily . " 
I need not refer to other citations which lay down the same principle about 
discharge of burden of proof with regard to corrupt practices but it has to be 


Sec . $(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1998/ PAUSA 8 , 1888 · 3517 


mentioned that the person alleging corrupt practices should prove it beyond reason 
able doubt and cannot be allowed to take advantage of the weakness of the 
opposite party . It is in the context of the above settled principle of law that I 
propose to proceed with the findings of the issueg ; 
Finding of issue No. 24 ( a ) 


This issue No . 24 ( a ) relates to the para No . 14 ( b ) of the petition . It 18 Uleged 
by the petitioner that respondent No. 1 has committed corrupt practices of incurring 
oc authorising expenses in contravention of section 67 of the Act between the date 
of notification calling the election i. e . 13th January 1982 and the date of declaration 
of the election result which was 28th February 1962. In this connection It has 
been urged that respondent No. 1 paid Rs. 5 , 000 to each congregs candidate of the 
Rajasthan Leglalative Assembly in Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency for 
furthering the cause of his election for the parliamentary seat. It may be pointed 
that the Jhunjhunu parliamentary constituency consists of 8 Rajasthan Legislative 
Assembly constituences and accordingly a sum of Rs. 10 ,000 lg alleged to be paid 
by respondent No, 1 to all the 8 congress candidates of the Rajasthan Legislative 
Assembly but this amount has not been shown in the amount of election expenses 
and that it Iceeds the prescribed Ilmit of Rs. 25 , 000 permissible for parilamentary 
election , 


In support of the above allegations the petitioner has examined two witnesses 
Babulal P . W . 10 and Jagmalsing P . W . 70 . Babulal P . W . 10 has deposed that 
respondent No . 1 had paid Rs. 5 , 000 to one Sheonathsing In Tibra Guest House , 
Jhunjhunu in his presence and had also told Şheonathsing that he had paid the 
similar amount to rest of the seven congregg candidates of the Rajasthan Ledsla 
tive Assembly . The witness has depoised that when the amount was paid to 
Shenoathsingh , only respondent No. 1 and Shenoathsingh were present. He says that 
he had told this to other persons of his Mohalla but he does not actually remember 
their names. Jagmalsingh P . W . 70 bag deposed that Ramnarain , a congress candi 
date for Mandawa constituency for Rajasthan Legislative Assembly . was told by 
respondent No. 1 that the canvassing in Mandawa Assembly Constituency had been 
very poor, whereupon Shri Ramnarain told him that it was for lack of funds. At 
tbts respondent No. I paid Rs. 5 , 000 to Shri Ramnarain and when he pressed for more 
funds respondent No. I told him that gimilar amount he had paid to other congress 
candidates. Here it may be significantly pointed out that Babulal mentions the 
payment of Rs. 5 ,000 to Sheonath Singh and Jagmalsing refers the payment of the 
same amount to Ramnærain . But both of these whom amount was paid have not 
been examined by the petitioner . It was petitioner s duty to produce the persons 
concerned whom the amount was paid . Babulal s statement about payment of 
Rs. 5 , 000 is based on heargay which is inadmissible in evidence and cannot be relied 
upon . The same is the case with respect to the statement of Jagməlsing P . W . 70 
which cannot be trusted as Ramnarain who received the amount could have been 
the best witness. Lastly I may also umfer to the statement of Ridmalsingh petitioner 
on this point. In his cross -examination he has deposed that respondent No. 1 did 
not pay Rs. 5 , 000 to any of the Congress candidates for assembly seats individually 
or collectively in his presence. All that he heard was from Babulal and nobody 
elre told him about it. He also says that he did not enquire about the date of 
payment of Rs. 5 , 000 to Sheonathsing from Babulal nor enquired about the dates 
of payments to other persons. On a perusal of the statement of petitioner it will 
appear that his evidence is also based on hearsay as to what he heard from Babulal, 

It is worthy of note that with regard to the alleged payment of Rs. 5 , 000 to 
each of the congress candidate in eight Rajasthan Legislative Assembly constituen . 
ctee , only 2 witnesses have been produced to prove payment for only two Assembly 
Constituencies . Even that evidence , as I have already pointed out, is cot at all 
helpful to the petitioner. The respondent No. 1 has denied making payment to any 
ot the congress candidates . I am not disposed to palce any reliance on the testi 
mony of the witnesses of the petitioner and thus the petitioner has failed to dis 
charge the burden of proof of payment of Rs. 5 , 000 by respondent No. I to each of 
the eight congress candidates and the issue is decided accordingly . 
Finding of issue No. 24 (6 ) 

This issue relates to para No . 14 ( c ) of the petition . It has been alleged by the 
petitioner that respondent No . 1 paid Rs. 1. 000 to the Congress Party between 13th 
January , 1962 to 19th January , 1962 . In this connection the learned counsel for the 
petitioner has argued that on respondent No. I s own admission the payment of 
Rs. 1 , 000 is proved . I have closely gone through the statement of respondent No. 1 , 
who has donosed that along with hieronlinntinn for nhtaining congress ticket he 
had deposited Rs. 3, 000 but this amount was paid much earlier than 13th January . 


3518 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA $, 1888 


[FAKT Il 


1982 and accordingly was not shown in the expenditure items. He has also deposed 
that he did not pay Rs. 1, 000 between 13th to 19th January , 1962 and out of Rs. 3 , 000 
deposited along with the application , a sum of Rs . 2 ,500 will be refunded to him . 
It will appear that there is no evidence whatsoever produced by the petitioner to 
now that a sum of Rs. 1 , 000 WAS paid belween 13th and 19th January , 1962 , I may 
here also refer to the statement of Ridmalsing petitioner himself on this point. 
He says that Rs. 1 , 000 was not paid in his presence but he has heard in the market 
that respondent No . 1 has paid Rs. 1, 000 to the Congress party . It may appear 
fantastic that the petitioner dces not remember the name of the person who had 
told him about the payment of Rs. 1, 000. Such an evidence cannot for a moment 
stand the test of proof reqiured for discharging the onus which lies upon the peti 
tioner , the issue is accordingly found in tho ncgative . 


Finding of issue No. 24 (c ) 

This issue relates to para No . 14 ( d ) of the petition . It has been urged by the 
petitioner that respondent No . 1 purchased and procured not less than 30 brand 
new jeeps , two brand new station wagons for his election purpose . In support of 
this allegation the petitioner has examined 9 witnesses which are P . W . 5 , P . W . 6 , 
P . W . 8 , PW . 9 , P . W . 10 . P . W . 11, P . W 14 P . W . 16 , P . W : 67 and P . W . 77 : Before 
I deal with the evidence adduced by the petitioner I may refer to the relevant law 
regarding corrupt practices committed by respondent No . 1. Section 123 mentions 
the corrupt practices for the purpose of the Act , and sub -section 5 of the said 
section is as under : 
" The hiring or procuring whether on payment or otherwise of any vehicle or 

vessel by a candidate or his election agent or by any other person 
(with the consent of a candidate or bis election agent) for the con 
veyance of any elector other than the candidate himself , the members 
of his family or his agent, to and from any polling station provided 
under section 25 of the Act or a place fxed under sub - section ( 1) of 

section 29 for the poll. " 
It will appear from the above that if the candidate cr his agent or any other 
person with the consent of a candidate or his election agent, hires or procures 
whether on payment or otherwise any vehicle for the conveyance of any elector to 
or from any polling station it has beon held to be a corrupt practice . It may be 
pointed that under this sub -section the actual user of the vehicle or vessels for 
carrying electors is not a corrupt practice in itself but what is necessary to prove 
16 that the procurement was made by the candidate or his agent or anybody else by 
their consent which is a corrupt practice . 

This issue refers to purhase and procurement. It is possible that one may not 
purchage vehicle but he may arrange procurement of the same. So far purchase of 
vehicles is concerned , there is not an fota of evidence whatsoever that the vehicles 
were purchased by respondent No. 1. Even the petitioner nowhere mentions in his 
long statement that respondent No. 1 did ever purchase the vehicles referred to in 
paragraph No. 14 ( d ) of the petition . 

Coming to the procurement of the vehicles I Arst take up the statement of 
Radheyshyam P . W . 5 . He has deposed that there were 20 to 25 vehicles which he 
used to see standing at the house of respondent No. 1 in Nawalgarh and thus he 
interred that these vehicles were used for election purpose . Further there is also 
no evidence as to from whom these vehicles were procured nor any particulars about 
the date when they were procured and places from where procured have been 
givn out. To take the petitioner s case at its best and assuming that 20 to 25 
vehicles used to stand at the house of respondent No. 1 but unless it is proved 
beyond doubt that these vehicles were procured by respondent No. 1 and that they 
were actually used for conveying electors to and from polling stations, such an 
evidence falls short of the actual standard of proof required for proving a corrupt 
practie . It has been urged on behalf of respondent No . 1 that the witness is pre 
judiced against him . The reason being that the witness was a Munim of Gadallal 
Seksaria who removed him from service but the witness believes that this removal 
was caused at his instance. But even if the witness may have been prejudiced , his 
evidence is difficult to believe . The next witness is Dr. B . S : Gupta P . W . 6 . This 
witness has deposed that he used to go to see the patients at the house of respondent 
No, 1 when he saw about 20 to 25 vehicles standing at his house . On behalf of 
respondent No. 1 It has been argued that this witness is also an interested one be 
cause there have been several civil & criminal cases pending in various courts 
between the witness at Naharsingh , who was President D . C . C . and was supporting 
the respondent No . 1 who was a congress candidate . But apart from the fact whe 
ther the witness had been interested or not , his evidence is inconceivable as he 


SEC . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA $, 1888 


3519 


could not give out name of a single patient and the diagnosis of any one of the 
patients whom he treated at the house of respondent No . 1 . A mere averment that 
the witness saw 20 to 25 vehicles at the house of respondent No. I does not carry 
conviction that they were all procured by respondent No. 1 and actually used for 
conveying electors . 


As for other witnesses , the statement of Habib Khan P . W . 8 is merely hear 
say as his deposition is based on what he heard from other drivers and no reliance 
can be placed on his cvidence . Shyamlal P . W . 9 is another witness . He says 
that there were about 30 to 40 vehicles but he failed to prove whether these 
vehicles were actually used for conveying clectors to and from any polling 
stations. The statements of P . W . 10 Babulal, as well as P . W . 11 Ghasiram are 
also difficult to believe, Then there is the evidence of witnesses Durgashankar 
P . W . 14 and Hameshwar P . W . 15 , both are drivers . P . W , 14 says that he used 
to drive the jeep of respondent No, 1. He has admitted that he is the member 
of Swatantra party . P . W . 15 is Rameshwar, who alleges that he drived jeep of 
respondent No. 1 for one month . He further admits that he was also driver of 
the vehicle of one Surja Aheer which he drived for 4 years . But strangely enough 
he could give the number of respondent s car which he drived only for a month 
but could not mention the number of the car of Surja Aheer which he drived 
for 4 years. Apart from these discrepancies both these witnesses have failed 
to substantiate that the vehicles were used for conveying electors. Bachansingh 
P . W . 16 is another witness . His knowledge about 20 , 25 vehicles is based on the 
simple presumption that once when he had gone to see onę Berisalsingh at Tibra 
Guest House, Jhunjhunu , than he saw these vehicles standing This Berisalsingh 
has been examined on commission by respondent No. 1 in rebuttal and he has 
deposed that he did not at all visit Jhunjhunu during the priod Bachansingh 
alleges to have seen him at Tibra Guest House , Jhunjhunu , Thus the statement 
of Bachansingh , who on his own admission is Secretary , Swatantra Party , does 
not carry conviction . The next witness is Shyamsunder P . W . 20 . He mentions 
that there were 8 to 10 jeeps while curiously enough Bhagirath P . W . 67 mentions 
that there was only one jeep . Lastly there is the statement of Ridmalsingh 
( P . W . 77 ) petitioner himself. He has clearly admitted that he does not know 
whom did the jeeps belong nor he has any knowledge that they were taken 
on hire. In fact the witness has clearly admitted that he does not know whether 
the jeeps were procured by respondent No. 1 and who met their expenses . The 
witness has also admitted that he is in the service of respondent No. 2 and 
receives salary from him . 


On a careful study of the evidence regarding this issue I am ot the view that 
the petitioner has utterly failed to prove that 30 jeeps and 2 station wagons were 
purchased or procuredb y respondent No. 1 . Mention may be made that during 
election contest it is common practice that the rival candidates and their agents 
always keep a watch on the activities of one another , specially of such activities 
that may come under corrupt practices . Had 30 jeeps and 2 station wagons were 
at all procured by respondent No. 1 as alleged by the petitioner , it was quite 
easy for the petitioner to prove by cogent facts but no such evidence was forth 
coming . Here I may significantly refer to E .L . R . 20 Page 443, wherein it has 
been held that if an election is sought to be set aside on the ground of corrupt 
practice, it is the duty of the petitioner to prove that ground affirmatively and 
for that purpose he has to rely first and last on the strength of his evidence 
and not on the weakness of the evidence of respondant. Further it has been 
held that it is necessary to prove that the procurement was for the specific 
purpose as mentioned in sub - section ( 5 ) of section 123 of the Act for conveying 
electors to and from any polling station . In the instant case mere sweeping 
references by a few witnesses here or there that there were 25 10 30 jeeps stand 
ing at the residence of respondent No 1 or at the Guest House, do not inspire 
confidence especially when a corrupt practice is to be established in all its 
material details , the issue is accordingly found against the petitioner . 


Finding of issue No. 24 ( d ) 


This issue relates to para No. 14 ( d ) of the petition . It has been also urged 
on pctitioner s behalf that respondent No. 1 used one old buick car and 10 hired 
jeeps for his election purpose . The learned counsel for the petitioner in this connec 
tion has relied on the statements of his witnesses PW . 5 , PW . 8 , P . W . 9 , P . W . 10 , 
P . W . 11 . P . W . 14 , P . W . 15 . PW . 16 , P . W . 67 and P . W . 77, I have examined their 
evidenre on rerord and it is worthwhile to mention that the petitioner was to 
prove that respondent No. 1 had procured one old builk car and 10 hired jeeps . 


3520 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/ PAUSA 8, 1888 


[Part II 


Secondly he was also to prove that these vehicles were used for election pur 
poses as required u / s 123 (5 ) . The witnesses appearing on behalf of the peti 
tioners have deposed that in those days the daily hire of jeep was from Rs. 30 / 
to Rs. 50 / - per day excluding petrol. This has been stated by P . W . 8 Habib 
Khan , P . W . 9 Sita Ram and P . W . 11 Ghasiram , Durgashankar P . W . 14 has stated 
that six jceps were hired while Bachansingh P . W . 16 and Ridmalsingh P . W . 77 
have deposed that they neither know names of the owners whose vehicles were 
hired and nor the amount paid for each jeep as hire by respondent No . 1 . Thus 
on a perusal of the evidence on record the petitioner has failed to prove that 
jeeps were hired by respondent No . 1 . Similarly , there is no evidence with 
regard to the Buick car . Further as required u / s 123 (5 ) of the Act , there is 
no evidence specifying that the alleged jeeps were carrying electors to and from 
any polling station . It is probable that there may be more jeeps than 10 and 
also similar number of bricks but unless it is proved by strong evidence that 
they were procured by respondent No, 1 and were actually put to use by him 
for electors, it cannot be said that any corrupt practice had been committed and 
the issue is accordingly found in the negative . 
Finding of issue No. 25 ( a ) 

This issue relates to para N . 14 ( d ) ( i) of the petition and is with regard to 
the depreciation charges of 30 jeeps , two new station wagons and one old buick 
car alleged to be procured by respondent No. 1 . It is urged that from 13th 
January , 1962 to 28th February, 1962 the amount of depreciation charges of 
aech jeep was Rs. 4000 / - bringing the total amount for 30 jeeps to Rs. 1. 20 ,000 / - . 
As for station wagons, the depreciation charges are alleged to be Rs. 3000 / - for 
each station wagon and for one old buick Rs, 1000 / - . Thus in all there were 
depreciation charges to the tune of Rs, 1, 27 , 000 / I may mention that the 
Anding of the issue rests on the finding of issue No. 24 ( c ) . In case the purchase 
and procurement of the 30 brand new jeeps and 2 station wagons and one old 
buick car and their use for election purposes, is proved a further examination 
for their depreciation charges may be called for but in my finding of issue 
No . 24 ( c ) ( d ) I have already observed that the petitioner has failed to prove 
the procurement of 30 jeeps, 2 station wagons and one buick car and their uge 
for election purposes . by respondent No . 1 , as such Anding of this issue is also 
in the negative, Anyway , I may briefly refer to the evidence led by the petitioner 
who has examined five witnesses who are P . W . 8 , P . W . 10 , P . W . 14 , P . W . 15 , P . W . 16 
and he himself appeared as P . W . 77 . Of these P . W . 8 Habib Khan , P . W . 14 
Durgashankar and P . W . 15 Rameshwar are all drivers . Habib Khan P . W . 8 has 
not said a single word about depreclation charges , Similarly P . W . 15 Rameshwar does 
not state anything about the depreclation charges , As for Durgashankar P . W . 14 , 
he says that he was the driver of respondent No. 1 and has deposed that after 
the use for a month or so of a new vehicle , there is the depriciation in its prices 
to the extent of Rs, 4000 / - to Rs, 5000 / -. In his cross -examination he has said 
that before election he used to ply a contractor s heavy truck for carrying stones . 
He has also admitted that he neither purchased nor sold any new or old jeep or 
station wagon . Similarly , he admits that he did not mention about the deprecia 
tion to anybody . It may be pointed that this witness has said nothing about 
depreciation of the alleged jecps and station wagons. As for witnesses P . W , 5 
Radheshyam , P . W . 10 Babulal, P . W . 16 Bachangingh they are also silent about 
the alleged depreciation . PW . 8 Habib Khan has deposed that price of a new 
jeep , after its use depriciates to four annos in a rupee. He has admitted that he 
has no workshop and he works as mechanic when called by anybody . He has 
also deposed that petitioner Ridmalsingh is motor driver. The statement of 
the witness is more or less of a general nature not giving any particulars of the 
depreciation in the prices of the alleged jeeps and station wagons. As for the 
statement of the petitioner Ridmalsingh himself, he has deposed that there was 
depreciation of about Rs, 1, 27,000 / - in the prices of 30 jeeps, 2 station wagons 
and one buick car, as given in his petition . He also admits that personally he 
does not own any vehicle and is a servant of respondent No. 2 Th , Raghuveer 
singh drawing a salary of Rs. 150 / - to Rs. 200 / - P . M . He further admitted that 
he neither purchased nor disposed of any jeep or station wagon . There is the 
solitary statement of Ridmalsingh P . W . 77 the petitioner himself and it is not 
supported by any witness . He is evidently interested being & servant of respon 
dent No. 2 and his lone testimonv is hardly of any avail, to prove the alleged 
depreciation referred to in para No, 14 ( d ) ( i ) of the petition and the issue is 
found against the petitioner , 
Finding of issue No. 25 (6 ) 

This issue relates to para No. 14 ( d ) ( ii) of the petition The petitioner s 
allegation is that the hire of one jeep engaged by respondent No. 1 was Rs. 60 / 
per day and thus the total amount of hire paid by respondent No. 1 for 10 days 


SEC. 8 (D )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA ) , 1888 


3521 


se , till 28th February, 1962 was Rs. 18 , 000 / - in all. In this connection the learned 
counsel for the petitioner has drawn my attention to the statements of witnesses 
P . W . 3 Ismail, E . W . 8 Habib Khan , PW , 9 Sitaram , P . W . 11 Ghasiram , P . W . 14 
Durgashankar P . W . 16 Bachansingh and Ridmalsingh P . W . 77. I may first refer 
to the statement of Ridmalsingh petitioner who has stated that Jeeps and vehicles 
were used for a month and Rs. 18 , 000 / - were spent on hire, while witnesses 
P . W . 3 Ismail, P . W . 8 Habib Khan , P . W . 12 Ladusingh , P . W . 14 Durgashankar and 
P . W . 16 Bachansingh have deposed nothing about the hird of the jeeps and the 
total expenses incurred . Thus there remain statements of two witnesses P . W . O 
Sitaram and P . W . 11 Ghasiram . Of these former has deposed that the charge 
for a jeep for a day was from Rs. 30 to 50, but in his cross - examination he clearly 
says that he does not know the total hire of jeeps paid , while the later ( P . W , 11) 
does not even know the period when the jeeps were taken on hire as well as 
the amount paid . It is thus clear that the statement of the petitioner is not 
corroborated by any witness , and a mere assertion that the jeeps were taken on 
hire certainly does not carry conviction , unless the material fact about each jeep 
and hire settled with their owners and the amount paid to each by respondent 
No. I are proved , Not only this but it was also to be established that such jeep 
WAS used by respondent No. 1 for election purpose . From a perusal of the 
evidence on record it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to make out a 
case and the issue is found accordingly . 


Finding of issue No. 26 (a ) 

This issue relates to para No. 14 ( d ) (iii ) of the petition . The petitioner s 
allegation is that respondent No. 1 incurred expenses to the extent of Rs. 4 ,000 / 
on the pay of drivers and cleaners of 30 jecps and one Buick car and to prove 
this there is the sole testimony of the petitioner Ridmalsingh P . W . 77. He says 
that on every vehicle there was a driver drawing Rs. 100 / - PM , and a cleaner 
receiving Rs. 60 / - P . M . Thus the total amount on the salaries of cleaners and 
drivers spent was Rs. 4960 / -. In his cross - examination the petitioner has admit 
ted that neither the drivers and cleaners were employed in his presence nor 
salaries were paid in his presence . No other evidence in support of this allegation 
has been brought on record and I find the issue against the petitioner . 


Finding of issue No. 26 (b ) 

This issue relates to para No. 14 ( e ) of the petition . It is urged on petitioner s 
behalf that from 13th January , 1962 to 28th February , 1962 respondent No. 1 
incurred a sum of Rs. 36 ,000 / - as expenses for petrol und Rs. 3000 / - for mobil 
oil . It will be obvious that hefore proving cxpenses for petrol and mobil oil, the 
petitioner should have proved the procurement of jeeps, station wagons and 
buick car and their use for elcction purpose by the respondent No . 1 but this has 
not been done . The petitioner has examined six witnesses . Only Ridmalsingh 
petitioner ( P . W . 77 ) has deposed that the expenses on petrol and mobil oil 
incurred by the respondent No . 1 come to Rs 36,000 / - and Rs. 3000 / -, respectively . 
But in his cross - examination he has admitted that the pitrol and mobil oil were 
not purchased in his knowledge, but the items of petrol and mobil oil and their 
expenses as mentioned in the petition are given approximately . The statements 
of witnesses P . W . 2 , P . W . 9 , and P . W . 12 also do not show that the expenses 
on petrol and mobil oil used in the vehicles were incurred by respondent No. 1 . 
It is also obvious that Agures of consumption and the expenditure alleged to be 
incurred on petrol and mobil oil are based on assumption that for propelling the 
vehicles petrol and mobil oil are necessary . There is no witness who could have 
stated on his personal knowledge about the consumption of petrol and mobil oil 
in vehicles procured by respondent No . 1 and the cxpenses incurred by him . 
The witnesses have stated on simple assumption , which have no evidentiary 
value . The issue is , accordingly decided against the petitioner . 
Finding of issue No. 27 

This issue relates to para No. 14 ( f ) ( ii ) of the petition . The petitioner s con 
tention is that respondent No. 1 engaged 20 salaried employees between 13th 
January , 1962 and 28th February , 1962 for clection work and expenses thus incur 
red on those emplovees on the travelling and other purposes amounted to 
Rs. 4000 / -. To prove this issue, thr petitioner has nxaminan himoolt annet four 
other witnesses which are P . W . 2 Mohd Ismail, P . W . 3 Ismail, P . W . 6 Radhev 
shvam . P . W . 16 Bachan Singh . The petitioner ( P . W . 77 ) has stated that 20 
persons had come from outside and he further stated on his personal inferences 
that from their living standard each must be getting Rs. 500 / - A8 salary P . M . 
end travelling expenses of each must be Rs. 200 / - This is what he assitmes and 


3522 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


PART II 


not the actual amount of salary or the travelling expenses which might have 
been incurred by respondent No. 1. As for the number of employees there are 
serious discrepancies in the statements of the petitioner as well as his witnesses . 
P . W . 3 says that there were six or seven persons coming from outside and salary 
of each of them might be Rs. 300 / - to Rs. 400 / - P . M . Mohd . Ismail P . W . 3 says 
that there were seven or eight employees while Radheshyam P . W . 5 also says 
that there were eight or ten persons and each of them might be getting Rs. 300 / 
to Rs. 500 / - P . M . . Thus none of the witnesses supports the statement of the 
petitioner . Besides, the petitioner has deposed that he could neither mention 
the name of any of the employees nor the names of the concerns in which they 
were employed , In cross - examination he admits that he had enquired from the 
employees themselves who had told him that they were employed by Murarka 
and their expenses were met by him but he does not remember the name of 
eyen a single employee from whom he enquired , so much so that he did not 
remember the names of the persons from Jhunjhunu who were working for 
respondent No. 1 . It is strange that not only the petitioner but even other wit 
nesses failed to stand the test of cross- examination , Radheyshyam P . W . 5 has 
said that he did not mention to anybody about respondent No. 1 incurring such 
expenscs, P . W . 2 also says that he does not know nor enquired thc names of 
those employces . On a careful scrutiny of the evidence on record , it is obvious 
that the statement of witnesses are untenable and no credence can be attached 
to them . The petitioner has failed to establish the allegation made in para 
No . 14 ( 1 ) of the petitioner and the issue is found against him . 


Finding of issue No. 28 

This issue relates to para No . 14 ( g ) ( i) of the petition . The two issues No , 28 
and No. 29 relate to the meetings alleged to be held at the instance of respondent 
No. 1 . Issue No, 28 deals with the meetings in general alleged to be held at 
various places in support of respondent No. 1 while issue No. 29 refers to the 
meetings held specifically when Shri Morarji Desai Ex - Finance Minister , Govern . 
ment of India visited Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency . 

So far as issue No, 28 is concerned the petitioner s contention is that in 
Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency right from 19th January , 1962 to 19th 
February , 1962 meetings were held at various places as mentioned in para 
No. 14 ( g ) ( i ) of the election petition , and that respondent No. 1 incurred expenses 
to the extent of Rs. 10 ,000 / - on such meetings . It may be mentioned that the 
total number of meetings held as alleged in the petition is Afty one. I have 
gone through the evidence led by the petitioner and on a careful study of the 
eyidence on record it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to produce any 
evidence about the meetings alleged to be held at the following 15 places: 

Salampur, Badagoan , Pilani, Chirawa, Budhana , Singhana, Bajwa, Udaipur, 

Chirana, Jhajhad , Mandawa, Malsisar , Bhanuri, Ladugar and Ramgarh . 
Before I may deal further with regard to meetings at other places , it is 
worthwhile to mention that the petitioner has examined 30 witnesses to prove 
that meetings were held at various places. These witnesses have admitted that 
they had been either associated and worked for or were in service of respondent 
No, 1 during his election campaign . The learned counsel for the respondent 
No. 1 thus at the very outset has drawn my attention to these witnesses who 
have been deserters, His plea is that the evidence of such witnesses who on their 
own admissions are deşerters is in itself sufficient to arouse strongest suspicion 
as to their bonafide because it has been only on very rare occasions that any one 
has voluntarily come forward and given evidence against any one to whom he 
was genuinely disposed of. In this connection be has referred E . L . R . 19 Page 
417. I may , however point out that on a perusal of the record , the number of 
such witnesses (deserters ) is thirty and the number of places where meetings 
are alleged to he held and proved by such witnesses being 24 which are as 
under : 
Bissau , Kali- Pahari, Dhundlod , Khetri, Bajawa, Gudha, Nua , Mines, Mahan 

sar, Patoda . Churl Ajcetgarh , Bai, Dabri, Titanwad , Niradhnu ; Tamkor ; 
Surajgarh , Bagar , Nangal, Nawalgarh . Togda , Tain , and Jeetas . 


Thus it may be significantly mentioned that to prove charges of corrupt prac 
tices , the petitioner has to make out a case against the respondent beyond reason 
able doubt and thc statements of the witnesses who are dezerters have to be 
examined very carefully becausc in view of the aforesaid citation the very fact 
that they are deserters arouses strongest suspicion as to the bonafides of such 
witnesses, 


30 $ (ti )? 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER $ 4 .HOONATAUSA , 1 8RB 


3523 


I now first take up the places where evidence for meetinms has been adduced 
by the petitioner : - - 

1 . Jhunjhunu : - It is urged that a meeting was held by respondent No . 1 at 
Jhunjhunu and to prove this five witnesses have bern examined . P . W . 8 Habib 
Khan , PW , 9 Sitaram . P . W . 10 Babulal P . W . 11 Ghasiram , and P . W . 12 Laduram . 
It will appear from a perusal of these statements that there is no direct evidence 
about the expenses incurred by Respondent No. 1 on the meeting P . W . 9 Sitaram 
has deposed that he was present in the meeting held in Motilal College, Jhun 
jhunu but he could say nothing about the experses incurred at the meeting . The 
sarne is the case with regard to other witnesses, and their testimony is of no avail. 

2 . Bissau : — As for meeting at Bissau , Maliram P . W . 13 has deposed that a sum 
of Rs. 200 / - to Rs. 250 / - was incurred by respondent No. 1 for this meeting. But 
from his evidence it appears that he has no personal knowledge and what he has 
averted is all based on presumption and surinise. Other witnesses examined by 
the petitioner are P . W . 14 Durgashankar Parmeshwar P . W . 15 , Hiralal P . W . 17 
and they have also failed to prove that a sum of Rs. 250 / - was spent for the 
meeting . Their evidence cannot be safely relied upon as on their own admis 
sion they were associated with respondent No. 1 and , as such , they are deserters . 
Mention may be made that on behalf of respondent No . 1 D . W . 10 Narsinghdev 
has appeared in the witness box and he has stated that no meeting was held by 
Respondent No. 1 at Bissau and nothing was incurred on this meeting. It algo 
appears that Muliram P . W . 13 , Durgashankar P . W . 14 , Parmeshwar P . W . 15 and 
Hiralal P . W . 17 are residents of Bissau , they are interested persons as they had 
worked for Th . Raghuveersingh respondent No . 2 , 

Bhorki: - As for meeting at Bhorki, it is alleged that a sum of Rs. 300 had 
been incurred on the meeting by Respondent No. 1. The witnesses produced in 
support of this al egation are Ramlal P . W . 19 , Dhansingh P . W . 52, Ghisaram 
P . W . 54, Resalsingh P . W . 55 , Mehtabsingh P . W . 56 and Badri Prasad P . W . 67 . 
The witnesses P . W 54 , 55 , 56 do not mention anything about the meeting while 
the statement of witnesses P . W . 19 , P . W . 52 and P . W , 57 are based on hearsay 
which are inadmissible in evidence , thus allegation is accordingly not proved . 

Togra : - As for meeting at Togra only one witness has been adduced by the 
petitioner and he is Khemchand P . W . 20 . He says that a sum of Rs. 104 , - WAS 
paid to him by respondent No. 1 but he did not make any mention about the 
expenses of the meeting to anybody. In cross - examination he clearly admits that 
for generations he is Choudhari of Bissau Thikana, he is evidently an interested 
witness and , therefore, cannot be relied upon . 

Bhojasar: - As for meeting at village Bhojasar , one witness Bhanwarsingh 
P . W . 22 has been examined by the petitioner. He says that a sum of Rs. 28 / - was 
paid to him by Ramkumar for meeting expenses . He further says that the meet 
ing was arranged by one Ramkumar but Ramkumar has not been produced . The 
witness is a tutored one as he mentioned the date of the meeting but could not 
give the date of only ten days back . He admits that he is i literate and that be 
did not do other work through Ramkumar except the meeting work , bis state 
ment as such cannot be relied . 

Kali- Pahari : - As for the meeting at Kali-Pahari, it is urged that Rs. 285 / 
were incurred for the meeting expenses by respondent No . 1 . Two witnesses P . W . 
23 and P . W . 24 , Samandarsingh and Baghsingh , respectively , have been produced 
to prove the expenses but their statements are based on hearsay. They are deser 
ters and thus their testimony is not worthy of reliance . 

Mandrela : - - As for meeting in village Mundrela , it is urged on petitioner s 
behalf that a sum of Rs. 175 / - was spent by respondent No. 1 and in this con 
nection he has referred to statement of Sale Khan P . W . 25 , but he says that the 
expenditure was done by one Prithvisingh who has not been produced , thus his 
statement is also of no avail. 

Sultana : - For allegations of mceting at Sultana the petitioner has produced 
witness P . W . 27 Moolsingh , who has deposed that a sum of Rs. 20 / - was spent on 
the meeting . He is evidently a tutored witness as he says that Ramsingh had 
asked him to propogate for the meeting but Ramsingh has not been exarained . 
His statement, therefore , is not worthy of reliance . 

Suraigarh : - For the allegation of meeting at Surajgarh , the petitioner has 
urged that a sum of Rs. 150 / - was spent at the meeting by respondent No. 1 . In 
this connection two witnesses Vishvanath P . W . 05 and Munzeram P . W . 66 have 


3524 THE GAZETTI OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


[PART 11 


been adduced . The statement of both the witnesses does not carry conviction as 
they are quite unnatural. P . W . 65 does not remember his own expenditure be 
sides he is a deserter and his evidence , therefore, cannot be relied . 

Khetri ; For allegations of meeting at Khetri, a sum of Rs. 150 / - is alleged to 
be spent on the meeting and the witnesses to prove this expenditure are P . W . 29 
Narainsingh and P . W . 37 Mangilal. The statement of P . W . 29 clearly shows that 
he is a tutored witness. He was introduced to respondent No. 1 by P . W . 37 . He 
was put various questions in cross - eyamination but he doe not remember the 
details as to the recovery of amount lent by him in the last 3 months. He also 
failed to prove the expenditure of Rs. 150 on the meeting . Similarly the state 
ment of P . W , 37 Mangilal cannot be also relied upon as he is also a deserter , 

Dunlod ; - As for meeting at Dundlod the petitioner has alleged that respon 
dent No. 1 spent Rs. 70 / - on the expenditure for the meeting and to support this , 
the witnesses produced are Shyamsunder P . W . 28 and Sampatsingh P . W . 69 . 
P . W . 28 has admitted that he received a sum of Rs. 3, 800 / - from Th . Raghuveer 
singh respondent No. 2 and made repairs of vehicles for him . This witness is 
evidently an interested witness . Similarly statement of P . W . 59 also does not 
help the petitioner who says that he did not work for anyone except respondent 
No. 1, On his own admission he is a deserter and his evidence too cannot be 
trusted . 

Bagara : - As for meeting at Bajawa the petitioner has produced two witnesses 
Bhaguram P . W . 30 and Jagatsingh P . W . 31 . It is urged that a sum of Rs. 159 / 
had been incurred for the meeting by respondent No . 1. Bhaguram P . W . 30 has 
deposed that he was prevailed upon by Mst. Sumitra to work for respondent No. 1 
but Mst . Sumitra who was instrumental for arranging the alleged meetings has 
not been examined . Further Bhaguram who on his own admission had served 
respondent No, 1 but has now appeared against him , as such , he is a deserter and 
his evidence cannot be relied . The statement of Jagatsingh P . W . 31 is also not 
material as he himself admits that for the Arst time he has mentioned in the 
court that a sum of Rs. 150 / - was paid for the meeting by respondent No . 1 . The 
petitioner has accordingly failed to prove this allegation . 


Babai : It is urged that a meeting was held at Babai and a sum of Rs. 70 / 
was spent by respondent No. 1 . In support of this Bachansingh P . W . 32 and 
Nathusingh P . W . 33 have been produced , Bachansingh P . W . 32 has deposed that 
he was introduced by one Birjusingh to respondent No . 1 but this Birjusingh has 
not been examined by the petitioner. The witness has also admitted that he does 
not remember his personal expenses of even for the last few months but strangely 
enough he could remember the expenses incurred by him two years before for 
holding the alleged meeting. It is something unnatural and his evidence is not 
free from suspicion as he is also a deserter . Nathusingh P . W . 33 has no personal 
knowledge about the expenses of the meeting. All that he says is based on what 
Bachansingh had conveyed to him . Further it is admitted that both the witnesses 
worked for Th , Haghuveersingh in election and according y they are interested 
witnesses and no reliance can be placed on their evidence . 

Gudha: - - It is urged that a sum of Rs. 250 / - was incurred for meeting held at 
Gudha and to support this two witnesses Madho Prasad P . W . 34 and Zorawarsingh 
P . W . 35 have been adduced . They have deposed that the amount was spent by 
him for holding a meeting to sponsor the cause of respondent No. 1 . It will appear 
that both these witnesses on their own admission had been working for respon 
dent No , 2 Th . Raghuveer Singh a rival candidate of respondent No . 1 . It is 
thus inconceivable that respondent No . 1 would have at all entrusted them with 
any work during his election campaign , Further the witnesses have alleged that 
they received Rs. 250 / - for meeting expenses from respondent No. 1 which had 
been disclosed by them for the first time on y before the Tribunal as such their 
evidence is quite unnatural and unworthy of any credence . 


Nua : - As for meeting at Nua it is alleged that a sum of Rs. 195 / - was sperrt 
by respondent No . 1 for holding a meeting at Nua and Shri Dashrathsingh P . W . 36 
has been produced to prove it but he is an interested witness . On his own ad 
mission the witness had Muwaf land for generation from Thakur of Bissau . He 
has also stated that he was introduced to respondent No. 1 by one Berigalsingh , 
which Berisalsingh has been examined on behalf of respondent No. 1 , who has 
deposed that he did not introduce him to respondent No . 1 . The witness is an 
11 : terested one and his testimony cannot be relied , 


Stc. * ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1066 / ? AUSA 3, 1888 - 3525 


Minas : - It is alleged that a sum of Rs. 50 / - was incurred by Respondent No. 1 
as expenses for meeting held at Minas. Two witnesses Ganpatram P . W . 73 and 
Juntharam P . W . 74 have been examined but their statements are contradictory 
to each other , P . W . 73 says that he arranged the meeting and spent Rs. 50 / - and 
paid Rs. 10 / - to Juntha for propaganda work . As against this Juntha P . W . 74 
has deposed that meeting was arranged by him and he spent Rs. 50 / - while pro 
paganda work was carried by one Balu . Besides both have alleged their close 
association with respondent, as such they are deserters and their eyidence cannot 
be relied , 

Mahansar : - - It is alleged that a sum of Rs. 90 / - was spent on the meeting Ly 
respondent No . 1 held at Mahansar , To prove this Baluram P . W . 71 and Hanif 
P . W , 72 have been examined but their statements are contradictory to cach other 
as regards the expenses of the meeting. They both have deposed their close asso 
ciation with respondent No . 1 but in the witness - box they have ranged themselves 
against the candidate for whom they alleged to have worked , they are , as such , 
deserters and their evidence is not free from suspicion , 

Patoda : — It is urged that a moeting was held at Patoda by respondent No . 1 
and a sum of Rs. 100 / - was spent by him . One Kalyan Singh P . W . 69 has bee 
produced to prove the expenditure on this meeting. He says that he was intro 
duced to respondent No . 1 by Shri Ramnarain but Shri Ramnarain has not been 
examined and no satisfactory explanation has been given for his non - production 
Further this witness is also a deserter and no reliance can be placed on his ey 
dence . 

Churi - Ajeetgarh : - At Churi - Ajeetgarh a sum of Rs. 250 / - is alleged to have 
becni incurred by respondent No . 1 for the meeting. In support of this, witnesses 
Madanlal P . W . 38 and Laxminarain P . W . 39 have been produced . The formar 
bas deposed that he did not mention this to any one before but it is quite un 
natural. Besides he also failed to give the particulars of the items of expendi 
ture made by him , he is also a deserter and his evidence cannot be relied . As 
for the statement of Laxminarain P . W . 39, he says that arrangements for the 
meeting were made by Madanlal P . W . 38 and not by him . He is silent au regards 
the expenses incurred and accordingly his evidence is of no avail. 

Fatehpur: — It is alleged that a meeting was held at Fatehpur at the instange 
of respondent No. 1 and a sum of Rs. 300 / - was incurred by him . Gajanand 
P . W . 40 has been examined to prove expenses of this meeting. The witness has 
deposed that two persons one Brij al and other Ranglal had told him to make 
arrangements for providing mcals to 200 persons in connection with the meeting 
and a sum of Rs. 350 / - was paid by Ranglal. Both Brijlal and Ranglal were 
important witnesses but none of them has been examined and the lone testitnony 
of Gajanand P . W . 40 cannot be relied . 

Bai : The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs. 160 / - was incurred by res 
pondent No. 1 for holding a meeting at Bai and to prove this he has examined 
Narain P . W . 41 and Banesingh P . W . 42 but both these witnesses have contradicted 
each other . Narain has denied that his father was Choudhari of Bissau Thakur 
but Banesingh P . W . 42 says that Narain s father was a Choudhari. Banesingh 
PW . 42 has admitted that he was a Bardar ( a person who gets land in return of 
his services ) of Thikana Bisau , and as such Banesingh and Narain both are closely 
associated with Thakur Raghuveersingh Respondent No. 2 and as they are fo 
terested witnesses and no reliance can be placed on their evidence . 

Dabri : - The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs, 58 was spent by Res 
pondent No. 1 for a meeting at Dabri. To prove this three witnesses Baghsingh 
P . W . 43, Sheoram P . W . 47 and Khinwaram P . W . 48 have been examined . The 
statements of P . W . 43 and P . W . 47 cannot be relied upon as both are interested 
witnesses. Baghsingh P . W . 43 s uncle has been Tehsildar in Bisau Thikana while 
Shobharam P . W . 47 s father has been closely associated with Thakur of Bisau 
as Choudhary of the Thikana. Thus it is not at all surprising that both these 
witnesses should have appeared to prove their loyalty and discharge the obligation 
which thcy owe to respondent No . 2 . As for the statement of Khinwa Ram P . W . 
48 he says that he kept account of expenses Rs. 58 / - of the meeting but he failed 
to produce their accounts. It is also worthy of note that the witness alleges to 
have spent a sum of Rs, 2600 / - on the marriage of his son , did not maintain the 
account of marriage of expenses . All these witnesses according to the statement 
of Bhagwana D . W . 4 and on their own admission are interested witnesses and , as 
such unworthy of any reliance . 


3526 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 9, 1888 


[PART [J 


Nangal; - According to the petitioner a sum of Rs. 84 / - is alleged to have been 
incurred by respondent No. 1 for meeting at Nangal. Phoolsingh P . W . 46 has 
appeared in the witness - box , who says that a letter had been addressed to him 
by respondent No. 1 to hold a meeting in the village Nangal. The witness has 
neither adduced this letter nor he made a mention to anyone about the expenses 
incurred in the meeting . It is for the first time before the Tribunal that the wit 
ness has deposed about the meeting and expenses incurred by him . The state 
ment in itself is unworthy of any credence and , as such , unreliable . 

Kari : — The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs, 45 / - was spent by res 
pondent No. 1 , Laxmansingh P . W . 50 has been examined to prove this expenditure. 
The witness has deposed that the amount had been received by him from one 
Jagan . His statement is based on hearsay as Jagan told him that the expenses 
had been incurred by respondent No. 1, accordingly his statement is inadmissible 
in evidence. 

Titanwad : - According to the petitioner respondent No . I had incurred a sum 
of Rs. 70 for holding a meeting at Titanwad . Lalji P . W . 49 and Lichman P . W . 51 
have been examined to prove the expenses incurred at the meeting. P . W . 49 
has stated that it was one Sheonathsingh through whom everything was arranged 
by Respondent No . 1 but Sheonath Singh has not been examined . The witness 
has also deposed that one Sugansingh who was doing Th . Raghuveersingh respon 
dent No. 2 s propaganda work , presided over the meeting arranged on behalf of 
respondent No. 1. This seems to be quite unnatural that respondent No, 2 active 
worker Sugan Singh should have ever presided the meeting held in support of 
respondent No. 1. The statement of P . W . 49 cannot , therefore , be relied . As for 
statement of Lachman P . W . 51 it is also unworthy of any credence as he says 
that the meeting was organised by one Shivnathji and expenses were incurred by 
Lalji P . W . 49 . 

Niradhnu : - The petitioner has alleged that a sum of Rs. 30 / - was incurred 
for the meeting held by respondent No. 1 at Niradhnu and to prove this one 
Puranram P . W . 60 has been examined . On his own admission he is associated 
with respondent No. 1 but in the witness - box he has appeared against respondent 
No . 1 and, as such , he is a deserter and his testimony cannot be accepted . 

Tamkor : - According to the petitioner a sum of Rs. 95 / - is alleged to have 
been spent on meeting at Tamkor, To prove this three witnesses Nanusingh 
P . W . 01, Meghraj P . W . 62 and Johri P . W . 63 have been examined , I have gone 
through the statements of Nanusingh P . W . 61 and Meghraj P . W . 62 but their 
statements are contradictory to each other , P . W . 61 says that when he gave the 
account of expenses nobody was present, while P . W . 62 says that he himself and 
many others were present at the time. Nanusingh P . W . 61 has also admitted that 
he received land from Thikana Bissau , this witness is evidently an interested 
witness while the testimony of other witnesses is unworthy of any reliance. 

Surajgarh : - - It is urged that a sum of Rs. 105 / - was incurred by respondent 
for holding meeting at Surajgarh . To prove this allegation Vishvanath P . W . 65 
and Mangaram P . W . 68 have been examined by the petitioner , P . W . 06 has ad 
mitted that he did not disclose to anyone before this that a meeting was arranged 
by respondent No . 1 . The witness also does not remember items of expenditure 
made by him , he is also a deserter and accordingly no reliance can be placed on 
his testimony as well as on the lone testimony of Mangaram P . W . 66 . 


On a careful perusal of the statements of witnesses examined by the petitioner 
it is obvious that the petitioner has failed to produce any cogent evidence CorTO 
borated by material witnesses. The burden heavily lay on the petitioner to 
prove beyond any reasonable doubt that the meetings were held at the Instance 
of respondent No. 1 and that the alleged expenses were incurred by him . On a 
closer analysis it is evident that out of the 51 places where meetings are alleged 
to have been held , no evidence has been adduced for meetings at 15 places which 
are alleged to be held and the expenses incurred by the respondent No. 1 . As 
for meetings alleged to be held at twenty other places the petitioner has examined 
witnesses but most of them are deserters and their evidence is not free from 
suspicion . It is further to be mentioned that mere allegation that meetings were 
held is not enough un ess it is proved that the meetings were held at the instance 
of respondent No. 1 and that all the expenses incurred on these meetings were 
borne by the said respondent. The petitioner has failed to substantiate his alle 
gations of the meetings as well as expenses incurred by Respondent No. 1 and 
the issue is accordingly decided against the petitioner , 


Sm . 3( 11): 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1086 /" AUSA 3. 1898 


3527 


Issue No. 28 (6 ) 

In view of the finding on Issue No. 28 ( a ) , this issue is also decided against the 
petitioner . 
Issue No. 29 ( a ) ( b ) 

The petitioner s allegation in para No. 14 ( g ) ( ii ) is that respondent No. 1 had 
called Shri Morarji Desai, Ex - Finance Minister , Government of India to address 
election meetings to support and sponsor his candidature and that Respondent 
No. 1 incurred all the expenses of the meetings addresscd by Shri Morarji held at 
Nawalgarh , Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau . It is common ground that Shri 
Morarji Desat participated in the election campaign of Jhunihunu Parliamentary 
Constituency and addressed meetings on 29 - 1 -62 and 30 - 1 - 62 held at the afore 
said places , Now the main point for determination is whether respondent No . 1 
called Shri Morarji and incurred the expenses of the meetings addressed by him . 

Before dealing further it is worthwhile to refer to basic principles with regard 
to expenses incurred by a candidate , specifically with regard to meetings . Section 
77 of the Act provides that every candidate at an election shall keep a separate 
and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the election , incurred 
or authorised by him or by his election agent between the date of the publication 
of the notification calling the election and the date of the result thereof, both 
dates inclusive. Sub -section ( 1 ) is of general nature but sub -section ( 2 ) pro 
vides that the account shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed while 
sub - section 3 provides that the total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such 
amount as may be prescribed . It may be here pointed out that it is only when 
the sum total of the expenditure as incurred or authorised by a candidate ex 
ceeds the prescribed limit, there is the contravention of section 77 of the Act and 
a corrupt practire under section 123 (6 ) is committed but at the same time ac 
cording to E . L . R . 16 Page 103 , a mere contravention of sub - section ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
of section 77 is no longer a corrupt practice . 

The learned counsel for the petitioner in support of his contention has argued 
that even if the expenses were incurred by any association or agency which is 
interested in the success of the candidate as A . I . C . C . , P . C . C . or D . C . C . they 
will be deemed to have acted as an agent of the candidate and that the expenses 
incurred or authorised by any Body or agency , shall be included in the return 
of election expenses. In support of this contention he has referred to E .LR. 10 
Page 57 ( Election Tribunal, Nagpur - 28 -4 -54 ), wherein it has been held that : 

" If an association or a society is interested in the guccess of a candidate 
and members of that society or organisation canvass for the candidate such 

association or society and every member of such association or society would 
be an agent of the candidate under section 79 ( a ) of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951, and the expenses incurred by them would not be un 
authorised expenses . 
It has been further held that: 

" Therefore , the expenses incurred after the nomination of a candidate by 
the candidate himself or by his election agent or by other persons ( such as 
the All India Congress Committee, the Provincial Congress Committee and 
the District Congress Committee in the case of a congress candidate ) and all 
other persons who took part in the election campaign , and by visitors who 
visited the constituency to support the candidature of the candidate and to 
canvass votes on his behalf are expenses incurred or authorised by the 
candidate for the conduct and management of his election and should be in 
cluded in the return of election expenses ." 

As against the above citation the loarned counsel for Respondent No. 1 has re 
ferred to a later ruling of Allahabad High Court E . L . R . 20 Page 176 (December , 
1958 ) , which lays down that only such expenditure which has been incurreri or 
authorised by the candidate or his election agent is to be included in the election 
expenses. It has been further held that the word " authorised was not equivalent 
to the expression with the consent or the knowledge of and that even if the res 
pondent knew that the All - India or the District Congrcss Committee had incurred 
some expenditure, in this behalf , such expenditure could not be treated as 
expenditurc incurred or authorised by the respondent. So much so that even 
the burden of proving that A . I . C . C . or D . C . C . have incurred some expenditure 
in this matter and the amount of expenses that they have incurred was on the 
petitioner and not on the respondent. 


3528 HET GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUS1 3, 1888 


[ l art 1) 


I may point out that I have given my best consideration to the citation which 
has been referred upon misconception . This citation is based upon section 79 ( a ) 
of the Act but sub - section ( a ) has been omitted by Act 27 of 1956 - Sec. 43 and 
thus clause ( a ) is no longer good law and accordingly all citations based on the 
interpretation of sub - section ( a ) are obsolete and the petitioner s contention fail 
on merits . 

Now in this view of the matter it is crystal clear that to prove corrupt practice 
u / s 123 ( 6 ) of the Act it was obligatory upon the petitioner to show that the 
expenditure was incurred or authorised by respondent No. 1 and it he fails to 
prove, any amount of expenditure whatsoever made by any Body , organisation 
or society or otherwise , respondent No . 1 cannot be held responsible for the same 
and accordingly it is not a contravention of section 77 of the Act . 

In the context of the above discussion I now proceed to deal with the alle 
gations with regard to meetings held in connection with Shri Morarji Desai s 
visit . 


It has been alleged that Respondent No. 1 arranged meetings on the occasion 
of the visit of Shri Morarji Desai at Nawalgarh , Mandawa, Jhunjhunu and Bissau 
and incurred expenditure on those meetings . I first deal with the meeting 
alleged to be held at Nawalgarh , 

Nawalgarh : - The petitioner examined seven witnesses in support of his con 
tention who are P . W . 1, P . W . 2 , P . W . 3 , P . W . 5 , and P . W . 6 . The respondent 
No. 1 on his part has examined himself and two witnesses D . W . 7 and D . W . 13 . 
It appears from Abdul Gani P . W . 1 s statement that he is prejudiced against 
respondent No. 1 as the nomination paper of Balji another candidate and a 
close relative of the witness , was got rejected by Respondent No. 1 , his evidence 
Accordingly is not to be trusted. As for witnesses Mohd . Ismail P . W . 2 2010 
Ismail P . W . 3 , both have deposed that Shri Morarji came to Nawalgarh and a 
tea party was arranged in his honour at the Town Hall which was attended to 
by about 150 persons. Mohd . Ismail P . W . 2 has further deposed that a meeting 
was arranged and the expenses for the same were incurred by respondent No . 1 
which were about Rs, 2000 / -. While Ismail PW 3 says that the expenses on the 
meeting were Rs. 1000 / - But the evidence of both these witnesses is based on 
conjectures and hearsay . Again Mohd . Ismail P . W . 2 says that he does not 
know the name of the persons from whom he heard that respondent No. 1 had 
called Morarji, as for expenditure met by respondent No. 1 he inferred this 
because chairs for the meeting had been brought from the house of respondent 
No . 1 Similarly Ismail P . W 3 says that he heard from Sagarmal Munim of 
respondent No. 1 that the expenditure was incurred by him , Radheyshyam 
P . W . 5 is another witness, who deposed that a party was held at Nawalgarh and 
about 200 persons were offered meals. This was arranged by respondent No. 1 
who incurred Rs. 800 / - to Rs. 900 / - towards its expenditure and thereafter a 
public merting was addressed by Morarji Desal. But in his cross - examination he 
admits that he does not know whether Congress called Morarji and nor he knows 
who paid his expenses . Dr B . S . Gupta P . W . 8 has deposed that meeting was 
Arranged by respondent No . 1 at the time of Morarji s visit and all the expenses 
were met by him . But in his cross - examination he admits that there had been 
tívil and criminal cases pending between the witness and Shri Naharsingh Presi 
dent D . C . C . who had been all out to support respondent No. 1 The witness 
failed to stand the test of cross - examination , he is an interested witness and 
his testimony is impaired . 

Jhunjhunut: - - As for meeting at Jhunjhunu , the petitioner has produced 5 
witnesses who are PW . 9 . P . W . 10 , PW 11, P . W . 12 and P . W . 16 . Sitaran 
P . W . 9 has deposed that Morarii D - sai came to support respondent No . 1, a 
congres , candidate and a sum of about Rs. 20007- or Rs. 2500 / - might have been 
incurred by respondent No. 1 Another witness Rohulal PW 10 says that a meet 
ing was arranged in Jhunjhunu which was addressed by Morarji According to 
him ] sum of Rs. 800 / - to Rs. 1000 / - might have been spent by respondent No. 1 
Similarly Ghasiram P . W . 11 has also droosed that a meeting was held in Gandhi 
Chowk Jhunjhunu and A sum of Rs 1000 / - to Rs 1500 / - might have been spent. 
The witness has admitted in cross - examination that he has no idea whether the 
meeting was called by DCC . or not. As for the expenses he grmite that it is 
guess work and beyond that he has no knowledge , Bachan Singh P . W . 1M SAVS 
that he was present at the meeting addressed by Morarti and a sum of Rs 2500 / 
must have been spent. In cross - examination he says that he does not know 
who spunt the amount and that he has no knowledge whether Morarji was 
called by PC. C . or D . C .C ... From the above analysis of the statements of the 


SEC. $ ( 11) ] 


sec.sep 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21 , 1966 / PAUSA 5. 1888 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA:DECEMBER 31.106/ AUSAS.196 3599 


3529 


SS= " 


witnesses it is abundantly clear that they above failed to prove that respondent 
No. 1 called the mceting in connection with Shri Morari s visit and that he 
incurred expenses for such meeting. All they have deposed is that the meeting 
was held and that expenses had been incurred but who called Shri Morarji and 
incurred expenses for the meeting , the witnesses are not definite and their state 
ments are quite vague, as such , their evidence is not material, 

Bissau : - As for meeting at Bissau , the petitioner has examined two witnesses 
Maliram P . W . 13 , Hiralal P . W . 17. Maliram P . W . 12 has deposed that meeting 
was arranged by respondent No . 1 and an expenditure to the extent of Rs. 800 / 
to Rs. 1000 / - might have been incurred , In cross - examination the witness failed 
to mention names of the persons making arrangemcnt and admits what he has 
stated merely by his own conjectures . Heeralal P . W . 17 says that some amount 
was paid to him by Murlidhar on behalf of respondent No , 1 for arranging the 
meeting but he failed to remember the amount which was actually paid to him . 
In his cross - examination he admitted that formerly he used to give revenue to 
Th . Raghuveersingh respondent No . 2 and thus he is an interested witness and no 
reliance can be placed on such evidence , 

Mandawa : - For meeting at Mandawa the petitioner has examined Dhonlaal 
P . W . 53 . He says that Morarji addressed a meeting at 7 P .M . in the market of 
Mandawa and a sum of Rs. 200 / - to Rs. 400 / - must have been spent. There was 
also a tea party after the meeting to which he also joined . He has further de 
posed that all these expenses were incurred through Birjusingh but he does not 
know how such money was actually spent. It may be pointed that Birjusingh 
was a material witness who should have been examined but neither he has been 
produced nor a satisfactory explanation for his non -production has been forth 
coming , and accordingly it is not proved that the expenses for the meeting were 
incurred by respondent No. 1 . 

Lastly I may refer to the statement of petitioner Shri Ridmalsingh himself 
about the meetings held at the four places. He has deposed that a sum of 
Rs. 5000 / - to Rs. 6000 / - must have been spent on the meetings and the tea 
parties arranged in connection with Shri Morarji Desai s visit . In cross 
examination he clearly admits that he is not definite as to who incurred these 
expenses nor he enquired from D . C . C ., P . C . C . or A . I. C .C . about the expenditure 
incurred in this connection . 

Now coming to the rebuttal. I may point out that respondent No. 1 has 
examined himself as well as two oth : r witnesses Sagarmal D . W . 7 and Shri 
Morarji Desai. D . W . 7 says that he is a munim of Shri Murarka Respondent 
No . 1 . he admits that Shri Morarji Desai visited Nawalgarh but no expenses 
were incurred on his visit by respondent No . 1. Respondent No. 1 has also denied 
that any expenses were incurred by him or by anyone of his election agents about 
the arrangements and meetings of Shri Morarji Desai, Shri Morarji Desai who 
had been examined on cominission has clearly said that respondent No . 1 did 
not incur any expenditure on his visit to Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency 
and so far as he knows the P . C . C . incurred the expenses of his visit . 

From the above analytical survey of the evidence it is self evident that the 
petitioner has failed to establish that Shri Morarji Desai was called by respon 
dent No. 1 and that the expenses for meetings and on other items were met by 
respondent No. 1. As already observed that in order to prove a corrupt practice 
it is essential that the petitioner should establish it with reasonable certainty . 
But here the petitioner has adduced witnesses who have based their statements 
either on their personal whims or individual conjectures lacking at the same in 
material particulars . 

Having gone through the evidence in the light of the relevant law as well 
as the totality of circumstances, I am of the view that the petitioner has failed 
to discharge the burden of the issue upon him , I therefore , decide the issues 
No . 29 ( a ) and (b ) against him . 


Issue No. 30 

It has been alleged by the petitioner that from 19th January , 1962 till 22nd 
February , 1962 respondent No. 1 hnd been running two messes one at Jhunjhunu 
and other at Nawalgarh and the expenses on these two messes which come to 
Rs, 12 ,000 / - were incurred by him . To prove this the petitioner has examined 
10 witnesses which are Mohammed Jsmil P . W . 2 . Ismail P . W . 3 . Radheyshyam 
P . W . 5 , Habib Khan PW . 8 , Sitaram P . W . 9 . Babulal P . W . 10 , Ghasiram P . W . 11, 
Durgashankar P . W . 14, Bachansingh P . W . 16 and Ridmalsingh P . W . 77 . In his 


3530 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 9 , 1888 


[Part II 


statement the petitioner has deposed that about 250 persons used to take meals at 
both the places . In his cross -examination he admits that he did not go and 
see these messes, but enquired from the cook and other persons. He has further 
deposed that the cooks were Prahlad and Heera from whom he heard about 
these messes. He also says that all the information which he could gather within 
15 days was kept in writing by him It is surprising that the witness who had 
got all the information recorded with him did not produce to corroborate his 
statement. He also admits that he has no personal knowledge about any corrupt 
practices committed by respondent No . 1. On his own admission it is pertinent 
to note that he knew about the messes and expenditure only through Prahlad 
and Hcera , which is all hearsay and is Accordingly inadmissible in evidence . 
As for the two witnesses Mohammed Ismail P . W . 2 , and Ismail P . W . 3 . Mohd . 
Ismail P . W . 2 has deposed that the mess continued for a month , in the beginning 
40 to 50 persons used to take meals but afterwards their number increased to 
300 to 400 and the average expenses per day were Rs. 200 / - to Rs. 250 / - . In 
cross -examination he admits that he neither knew the persons who used to work 
there in the mess nor he could mention nanie of a single person out of the 300 
to 400 persons who used to take their meals every day . It is strange that the 
witness who is a residant of Nawalgarh , could not know names of any of the 
persons who used to take meais or served in the mess . Similarly Ismali P . W . 3 
also could not give the name of any cook or any of persons who used to take meals 
nor he could mcntion date when mess started as such the testimony of both 
these witnesses deserves no credence . Habib Khan PW . 8 s statement is of no 
avail specially when he says that he does not know whether any mess was rain 
by Respondent No. 1 in Jhunjhunu . Sitaram P . W . 9 . Babulal P . W . 10 , and 
Ghasiram P . W . 11 have been examined by the petitioner to prove the alleged 
mess set up in Jhunjhunu at Tibra Guest House . Sitaram P . W . 9 has deposed 
that 200 to 250 persons used to take meals in the mess. In his cross - examina 
tion he says that he did not go to take meals there but he saw the persons from 
a distance in the Guest House. It does not stand to reason that the witness , by 
mere seeing persons in the Guest House could infer that a mess was run , wherein 
200 to 250 persons used to take meals. Babulal P . W . 10 and Ghasiram P . W . 11 
have alleged that a mess at Tibra Guest House Jhunjhunu was run by Respon 
dent No. 1 but both of these have failed to substantiate that the expenses were 
really incurred by Respondent No . 1. Durgashankar P . W . 14 and Bachansingh 
P . W 16 have deposed that there mas a mess and about 100 to 200 persons used 
to take meals but their testimony is impaired in cross - examination as they could 
not substantiate the allegations that the mess had been run and the expenses 
were incurred by respondent No. 1 , 


Coming to the hebuttal evidence I may point out that respondent No . 1 has 
himself appeared in the witnessbox and has denied in unequivocal terms that 
any mess in Jhunjhunu or Nawalgarh was run by him and the alleged expenons 
were incurred by him , Sagarmal D . W . 1 is the Munim of Respondent No. 1 who 
savs that Respondent No . 1 did not make any arrangements for mess either at 
Nawalgarh or at Jhunjhunu . 


From the above scrutiny of the evidence it is quite clear that the petitioner 
has failed to substantiate the allegations that the Respondent had incurred e 
penses on two messes to the tune of Rs. 12 ,000 . The issue is , therefore , decided 
against the petitioner . 


Finding of Issue No. 31 


It is urged on behalf of the respondent No. 1 that the petition does not dis 
close cause of action with respect to corrupt practices set out in various sub 
paras of para No. 14 . It may be pointed that the petition was received here an 
24th May , 1962 . Since respondent No. 1 had made preliminary objection that 
some essential particulars about the allegations in the petition were lacking the 
Tribunal accordingly ordered amendment and the amended petition was present 
ed on 3rd October, 1963. 


I have gone through the relevant paragraphs of the amended petition and it 
will appear that the assertions made by the petitioner in his petition disclose 
cause of action entitling the petitioner to the relief claimed for. The Respondent 
No. 1 could not point out a single or more facts which do not disclose cause of 
action with respect to the corrupt practices alleged by the petitioner . The issue 
is accordingly decided against the respondent No . 1 . 


SECO 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 


/ PAUSA 3, 1888 


3531 


Finding of issue No. 32 

Issues No. 32 to 37 relate to recriminalion , On 15th June, 1962 the respondent 
No. 1, u / s 97 of the Act filed statement of recrimination . The main contentions 
in the statement of recrimination are that Respondent No. 2 was a candidate both 
for Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency as well as for Mendawa Assembly 
Constituency . The respondent No . 3 has filed his return of expenses in connec 
tion with Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency and according to retuſn his 
expenses are Rs. 21, 583.74 while his expenses in connection with his election to 
the State Assembly as incurred by him , as per return are Rs. 4 ,558 . 36 which are 
in addition to the sum of Rs. 21 ,583 . 74 stated to have been spent by him for the 
Parliamentary Constituency . It is then urged that according to rule 90 a candi 
date for election to the Parliamentary Constituency is permitted to incur maxi 
mum expenses only to the tunc of Rs. 25 ,000 , and is not entitled to incur expenses 
in excess of the said maximum under any circumstances . Since the Mandawa 
Assembly Constituency forms part of the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency 
thus the Respondent No. 2 should not have spent more than Rs. 25 ,000 while on 
his own showing he has incurred expenses totalling Fis . 26 , 142. 10 np . Thus it was 
a contravention of section 77 of the Act and accordingly he is guilty of a corrupt 
practice under provisions of section 123 of the Act . 

In reply respondent No. 2 has traversed all the grounds mentioned in the peti 
tion and emphatically denied the allegations levelled against him . He has admit 
ted that he was a candidate both for Mandawa Assembly Constituency as well 
as Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constitucncy but the law does not enjoin upon a 
candidate standing both from a Parliamentary Constituency as well as Assembly 
Constituency ( forming part of the same parliamentary constituency ) and not 
to incur more than Rs. 25 ,000 for both the constituencies , and thus there was no 
contravention of section 77 of the Act and no corrupt practice has been commit 
ted as envisaged in section 123 of the Act has been committed by him . 


I have given my best consideration to the point raised by Respondent No . 1 . 
It will appear that part VIII of the Rules deal with election expenses, Rule 30 
provides that the maximum election expenses which a candidate can incur for 
Parliamentary Constituency shall not exceed Rs. 25 ,000 for which he is to keep 
an account as required u / s 77 of the Act. In the case of a constituency of any 
State Assembly rlause ( ii) of Rule 90 provides that expenditure to be incurred 
in connection with any Assembly Constituency is to be kept u / s 77, it shall not 
exceed Rs. 6 , 000 in the State of Rajasthan . In case had there been a limit for the 
maximum expenditure to be shown u s 77 for a candidate standing for both Par 
liamentary Constituency as well as State Assembly Constituency , there would 
have been a separate provision but there is no such restriction . Thus in view 
of the relevant provision of the law as it stands, it cannot be said that Respon 
dent No. 2 had exceeded the prescribed limit for his election because expenditure 
incurred by him for the Assembly Constituency cannot be added to the expenses 
what he had incurred in the Parliamentary Constituency and , as such , there was 
no contravention of section 77 and no corrupt practice has been committed by 
Respondent No. 2 . The issue is , therefore , decided against Respondent No. 1. 


Findng of Issue No. 34 


It has been urged by Respondent No. 1 that Respondent No. 2 spent a total 
sum of Rs. 15 , 000 for paying to the various assembly candidates in Jhunjhunu 
Parliamentary Constituency for furthering the prospects of his election as well 
ag bis election propaganda for the Parliamentary Constituency . As these expenses 
had been incurred and / or authorised by Respondent No. 2 he ought to have dis 
closed them in his return of expenses filed by him . The particulars of the 
amount alleged to be paid by him are given in sub -paras ( b ) , ( c ) , ( d ) and ( e ) of 
para 3 of the recrimination application which are as under : 


1 . Rs. 6 ,000 paid to Shri Shivnarain Chhachhia , a Swatantra Party candi 

date for the Surajgarh Assembly constituency which forms part of 

the Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency . 
2 . Rs. 4 .000 paid to Shri Chunnilal Gujar a Swatantra Party candidate for 

the Khetri Assembly Constituency which also forms part of the 

Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency . 
3. Rs . 1,500 paid to Shri Banshidhar Sharma a Swatantra Party candidate 

for Fatehpur Assembly constituency . 


3932 THE GAZSITE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA $ 1938 


[PART 11 


4 . Rs. 4 ,000 paid to Shri Jivarajsingh A Swatantra Party candidate for the 

Gudha Assembly Constituency which also forms part of the Jhun 
jhunu Parliamentary Constituency . 


On a perusal of the evidence adduced by Respondent No. 1 it appears that to 
prove the above alleged four payments , no evidence has been produced by Res 
pondent No. 1 about payments with respect to part ( d ) to Shri Banshidhar 
Sharma and part ( c ) to Shri Jivarajsingh of Rs. 1, 500 and Rs. 4 ,000 respectively . 
As for allegation of payments under ( b ) to Shri Shivnarain of Rs . 6 ,000 and ( c ) 
to Shri Chunnilal Rs. 4 , 000 , Respondent No . 1 has examined only one witness 
Kodarmal R . W . 1 . The witness has deposed that a sum of Rs. 6 ,000 was given to 
Shiynarain in his presence. But he is a chance witness as he has deposed that 
ho was taken to Respondent No. 2 for getting his car approved by Respondent 
No. 2 for his election purpose but the car was rejected . It is inconceivable that 
an amount for election propaganda would have been paid to Shivnarain by Reg 
pondent No. 2 in the presence of a stranger who had met him causally for the 
Arst time. As for payment of Rs. 4 ,000 to Shri Chunnilal Respondent No . 1 has 
etcamined Prakashchand who says that Rs. 4 , 000 were given to Chunnilal by 
Respondent No . 2 in his presence . But in cross - examination he says that the 
notes were not counted and that Maliram and one or two more persons were also 
progont. But neither Maliram has been examined nor any of the other persons 
who are alleged to have been present on the spot have been examined . In rebut 
tal Respondent No 2 has appeared in the witness -box and has denied in clear terms 
the payment of the alleged sums to the above named persons. 


Coming to the expenses of Rs. 1 , 500 as alleged to be incurred according to 
ub - para ( 1 ) of para 3 , it is urged that during the period between 19th January , 
Do2 to 20th February , 1962 Respondent No . 2 had held meetings at the following 
places 
Fatehpur, Ramgarh, Nawalgarh , Bissau , Suratgarh , Jhunjhunu , Alsisar , 

Ganglasar , Malsisar , Mandawa , Mukandgarh , Mehendsar , 
and several other places where he made all the arrangements for such meetings 
and incurred and /or authorised the expenses and such expenses would easily come 
to Rs. 1 ,500 . 


On a perusal of the evidence on record there is evidence only about a meeting 
heid at Nawalgarh and that is also not reliable . In this connection Respondent 
No. 1 has examined Ramswaroop R . W . 8 who has deposed that a meeting was 
held at Nawalgarh and arrangements for the meeting were made by one Hariram 
and a sum of Rs. 150 was incurred on the arrangements which was paid by 
Thakur Sahib to Hariram , He further says that Birjusingh and Th . Madansingh 
also used to work for Th . Raghuveersingh . From the statement of Ramswroop 
it is obvious that Hariram was the main witness who made all arrangements and 
that the amount was also paid to him . It is strange that Respondent No. 1 , instead 
of examining Hariram who could be the main witness for proving the meeting 
and alleged expenses should have left him and examined Ramswroop R . W . 8 
dasual witness and his testimony cannot be relied , 


It may be pertinent to note that it is alleged that meetings were held at seve 
ral places but only names of 12 places where meetings were held have been given 
and for meetings at the twelve places except for meeting at Nawalgarh , there is 
not an iola of evidence to prove that Respondent No. 2 held meeting . Respondent 
No. 1 has accordingly failed to prove that Rs. 1,500 were incurred by Respondent 
No. 2 on the meetings , 


There is also an allegation by Respondent No. 1 appearing in sub - section ( g ) 
of para 3 for running a mess at Bissau hy Respondent No. 2 . It is urgent that a 
mess was run by Respondent No. 2 at Bissau from 19th January, 1962 to 28th 
February , 1962 and expenses incurred on the mess have not been shown in the 
return of expeness Aled by Respondent No. 2 , which at a very conservative esti 
mate , would amount to Rs. 7 ,000 . I have gone through the evidence led by Reg 
pondent No. 1 hut out of 8 witnesses examined by Respondent No . 1 not a single 
witness has said anything about the mess as alleged to have been run by Respon . 
dent No. 2 at Bissau and the expenses incurred by him . On the other hand Res . 
pondent No. 2 has appeared in the witness - box in rebuttal and has emphatically 
denied the allegation that a mess was run by him at Bissau and that he incurred 
any expenses on the alleged mess . 


Sto. % (0 ) 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1986 /PAUSA 8 , 1888 


3533 


From the above discussion it is obvious that the expenditure by Respondent 
No. 1 as alleged in para 3 and its sub - paras of his recrimination application are 
not proved . The issue is accordingly decided against respondent No. 1 . 


Finding of Issue No. 35 

This issue relates to expenses alleged to have been incurred by respondent No. 
2 in para 4 sub - paras ( a ) to ( k ) of recrimination . I have examined the evidence 
as adduced by the petitioned but there is no evidence to support the allegations 
made under sub -paras ( a ) to ( k ) of para 4 except for para ( c ) . It is alleged that 
Respondent No. 2 paid & sum of Rs. 1000 - to one Shri Başantilal for the purpose of 
construction of a school building in village Khakada . In support of this allegation 
Basanthal R . W . 3 has been examined by Respondent No. 1 who says that Respon 
dent No. 2 had come to Mahabeer Purohit and it was through him that he was 
called and a sum of Rs. 100 was paid but it is strange enough that Mahabeer 
Purohit who was the main witness has not been examined . In his cross - examina 
tion the witness has deposed that though the amount was received for construction 
of a room in the school but the witness did not maintain any list of persons who 
contributed for the school, nor there is any Committee or body to lookafter the 
school. The statement of this witness accordingly has no material bearing on the 
point and no credence can be attached to it . Since the respondent No. 1 failed to 
produce any evidence to prove the allegations made in para 4 and its sub - paras, 
the issue is decided against him . 


Finding of Issue No. 36 

This Issue relates to para No. 4 of recrimination with specific reference to the 
acts of bribery alleged to have been committed by respondent No . 2 under various 
sub -paras of para 4 . In my finding of issue No. 35 I have already stated that there 
is no evidence on record with reference to any of the allegations referred in sub 
paras ( a ) to ( k ) of para No . 4 except for the allegation in sub - para ( e ) which is 
also not proved . The result is that the issue is decided against respondent No. 1. 
Finding of Issue No. 33 

It is urged by the Respondent No . 1 that the Respondent No . 2 has shown more 
expenses for the Assembly election than actually incurred and less for Parliament 
ary seat. As already observed in the finding of the above issue, the expenses 
incurred by respondent No . 2 for both the constituencies as per return and furnish 
ed by him are as under : 
1. Jhunjhunu Parliamentary Constituency 

Rs. 21, 583.74 
2 . Mandawa Assembly Constituency 

Rs. 4 ,558 .36 

Total Rs, 26, 142, 10 
It will appear that the expenses incurred by Respondent No . 2 As per return 
are much less than the maximum prescribed limit as permissible under Rule 90 . 
But as alleged by the Respondent No . I that the expenses as per return as shown 
by the Respondent No. 2 are not correct , the burden lay heavily upon Respondent 
No. 1 which he has failed to discharge and the issue is found accordingly . 
Finding of Issue No. 37 

This recrimination application was presented on 26 -6 -62 u / s 97 of the Act before 
the Member , Election Tribunal, Jhunjhunu . The petition and relevant papers were 
received from the Election Commission on 24 - 5 -62 and the petition was fixed for 
hearing on 1 - 6 - 62. 


As per record of this petition , it is evident that on 15 - 6 - 62 an application along 
with notice of intention to recriminate by the 1st Respondent and statement of 
recrimination were presented by Shri M . P . Jain Advocate before the Munsarim of 
the Court. But on the said date the Election Tribunal was closed and the Member 
of the Tribunal was also out of headquarters on leave . The learned counsel for 
Respondent No . 2 has objected to this presentation before the Munsarim , who, it is 
urged was not authorised to receive the notice . But it may be pointed that the 
civil courts had been closed for the period on account of summer vacation as 
declared by the Hon ble High Court from 4 - 6 - 62 to 1 - 7 -62 which was also a penod 
of vacation for the Election Tribunal. In this view of the matter I rely on E . L . R . 
13 Page 385 and accordingly a notice of intention to recriminate and the recrimina 
tion petition could have been even presented on the reopening day of the civil 


3534 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA , 1888 


[PART II -- 


courts 1.e . 2nd July , 1962. As for the presentation before a proper authority , it 
may be pointed that when the Member , Election Tribunal resumed on 25 -6 - 62 It 
was put up before him and orders were passed on 26 - 6 -62 , Thus it will appear 
that not only the recrimination petition was within limitation but it was a proper 
presentation before the Member, Election Tribunal. The issue is , therefore , decid 
ed against Respondent No . 2 . 


Finding of Issue No. 38 . 

The result of the above findings is that the petitioner has falled to prove that 
any corrupt practice were committed by Respondent No . 1 or his election agents 
or any other person with his consent. The petitioner has also called to substantiato 
any grounds in his petition which would justify the declaration of election of 
Respondent No. 1 as void , or any other relief claimed for . 


ORDER 
The Election Petition , therefore , fails and is hereby dismissed with this further 
direction that the petitioner will pay Rs. 500 / - as costs to the contesting Respon 
dent No , 1. The other respondents would neither pay nor receive any costs of this 
Election Petition . The recriminatory petition is also dismissed with costs . 

Sd ./ - M . RAZA ALI KHAN , 
Member , Election Tribunal, 

Jhunjhunu . 


Pronounced in the open court this 8th day of November, 1966 . 

Sd . / - M , RAZA ALI KHAN , 
Member, Election Tribunal, 

Jhunjhunu , 
[ No. 82 / 269 / 62. ]. 


Delhi, the 9th December 1966 


S . O . 3887. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
22 of the Representation of the People Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby appoints , in 
Trapect of each of the Parliamontary Constituencies in the Union Territory of Himachal Pradesh 
as determined by the Delimitation Commission in its Order No. 19 , dated the 18th November , 
1966 , and specified in column 1 of the Table below , 
(a ) the officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table to he the 

Returning Officer ; and 
(b ) the officers specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said Table to be 

the Assistant Returning Officers , 


TABLE 


Returning Officer 


AssistantReturning Officer 


Name of the Consti 

tuency 


I 


I . Mahasu . 


, 


Deputy Commissioner, Mahasu . 


I . Deputy Commissioner , 

Kinnaur, , 
2 . Deputy Commissioner , 

Kulu . 
3 . Revenue Assistant, Mahasu , 
4 . Sub - Divisional Officer (Civil ), 

Rampur , 
5 . Magistrate Ist Class , Thcog . 
6 . Magistrate ist Class , Rohru , 


Src. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


3535 


2 . Simla 


. 


. 


3 . Hamirpur . 


. 


4 . Kangra 


, 


. 


5 . Chamba . 


. 


. D : :1y C ).n nissioner , Simla . 1. Doputy Commissioner 

Mahagu . 
2 . Doputy Commissioner , Sirmur. 
3 . Goncral Assistant, Şimla ." 

4 . Magistrato 1st Class , Solan , 
. Deputy Cynnissioner, Kangca . 1 , Doputy Commissioner, 

Bilaspur . 

2 . General Assistant, Kangra . 
. Deputy Commissionor, Kangra . General Assistant, Kergra . 
. D : puty Commissioner , Chamba . 1. Doputy Commissioner, 

Kangra . 
2 . Doputy Commissioner, 

Lahaul-Spiti. 
3 . Deputy Commissioner, Kulu . 
4 . Revenue Assistant, Chamba. 
5 . Sub - Divisional Oficor (Civil ) 

at Kaza . 

6 . Naib Tahsildar , Pangi . 
. Deputy Commissioner, Mandi, 1. Doputy Commissioner , 

Kangra . 
2 . Revonuo Assistant, Mendi.) 
3 . Revenue Assistant, Kangm . 


6 . Mandi 


. 


. 


[No. 434/HP/66 ) 
Delhi, the 14th December, 1966 
S , O . 3888 - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 and sub - section 
( 1) of yout10n 22 oth Rorsentation of the People Act , 1951 , and in supersession of its previous 
notification No. 434/MT/66 , dated the 22nd Junc, 1966 , the Election Commission hereby appoints , 
In respect of each of th : Parliamentary constituencies in the State of Maharashtra , specified in 
column i of the Table below : 

(a ) the officer specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the said Table to be the 

Returning Oficer, and 
( b ) the officer specified in the corresponding entries in column 3 of the paid Table to be 
the Assistant Returning Officers : 

TABLE 


Name of the 
Constituency 


Returning Officer 


Assistant Returning Officers 


F 


1 . Rajapur 


. 


. Collector of Ratnagiri 


( 1) Prant Officer , Sawantwadi Division , 

Sawantwadi, 
(2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Ratnagiri. 
(3 ) Pront Officer, Ratnagli Prant, 
(4 ) Special Deputy Collector , Ten 
ancy Appeals ( II), Ratnagiri at Kanka 

vali . 


3526 IHL GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1968 /PAUSA :, 1888 


[PART JI 


3 


bag 


2 . Ratnagiri . . Collector of Ratnagiri, (I ) Special Deputy Collector , Tenancy 

Appeals (1), Ratnagiri. 
(2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Ratnagiri. 
(3 ) Prant Officer , Chiplun Prant . 

(4 ) Prant Officer, Dapoli Prant. 
3 .Kolaba . . Collector of Kolaba, Ali - ( 1 ) Prant Oficer, Mahad Prant. 

( 2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Kolaba at Alibag . 
(3 ) Prant Officer, Alibag , 

(4 ) Prant Officer, Panvel Prant. 
4 . Bombay South Collector of Bombay , (1 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

and Bombay Suburban No . 2 , Bombay , 
District , 

( 2 ) Assistant Commissioner (Revenue), 

Bombay Division , 
( 3) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No. 4 , Bombay . 
(4 ) Depury Collector, Bombay & Resident 

Deputy Collector , Bombay Suburban 

Distt. 
5. Bombay Central Collector of Bombay & (1 ) Deputy Collector, Sales Tax , Bombay . 
South . 

Bombay Suburban Dis - ( 2 ) Deputy Collector Bombay & Resident 
trict. 

Deputy Collector Bombay Suburban 

District , 
(3 ) Assistant Commissioner (General) 

Bombay Division . 
(4 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No . 6 , Bombay . 
6 . Bombay Central . Additional Collector , ( 1 ) Deputy Collector Leave Reserve 

Bombay Suburban Dis - Commissioner s Office , Bombay , 
trict, 

Division . 
(2 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

No. 5, Bombay . 
(3 ) Assistant Commissioner ( Spply ) 

Bombay Division . 
(4 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

Nol 7, Bombay . 
(5) Additional Collector , Income Tax 

Recoveries , Bombay . 
7 . Bombay North Additional Collector, (1 ) Deputy Collector Leave Reserve , 
West. 

Bombay , Suburban Bombay Suburban District, 
District. 

(2 ) Additional Deputy Collector, Bombay 

Suburban District , 
(3) District Deputy Collector, Bombay 

Suburban District. 
8 , Bombay North Deputy Commissioner, (1 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 
East Bombay Division , 

No. 8 , Bombay . 
(2 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

(High Ways ), Bombay . 
(3) Prant Offices, Thana . 
(4 ) Special Deputy Collector, for Tenancy 

Appeals , Thana . 


Btc. 8(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1986 / PAUSA 9, 1898 


3537 


9 . Bhiwandi . 


. Collector of Thana . 


( 1) Prant Officer, Panvel Division at 

Panvel . 
( 2 ) Administrator, Ulhasnagar 
( 3 ) Prapt Officer , Thana Prant, Thana , 
( 4) Prant Officer, Bhiwandi Prant, Thane 
(5 ) Prant Officer, Haveli Division , Poona . 


10 , Debanu 


. 


. Additional 

Thana . 


Collector , 


( I ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

Upper Valterna Scheme, Thana . 
(2) Prant Officer, Dahanu Prant, Dahanu . 
( 3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Second Milk Colony, Dahanu . 
(4 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Ulhas Valley Project , Thana . 
(5) Prant Officer, Nasik . 


11. Nasik 


. 


. Collector of Nasik . 


(1) Prant Officer, Nasik , 
(2 ) Prant Officer, Niphad . 
( 3 ) Leave Reserve Deputy 

Nasik , 


Collector , 


12 . Malegaon . 


. Collector of Nasik . 


(1) Prant Officer, Malegaon Division , 

Malegaon , 
( 2) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 

Project, Nasik . 
(3 ) Special Deputy Collector, Tenancy 

Appeals , Nasjk . 


13 . Nandurbar . 


Collector of Dhulja . 


(1 ) Prant Officer, Dhulia . 
( 2 ) Prant Officer , Nandurbar , 
(3 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Dhulia . 


14. Dhulia 


. 


Collector of Dhulia . 


( 1) Lcave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Dhulia , 
( 2 ) Prant Officer, Dhulia . 
(3 ) Prant Officer , Amalner Division . 
( 4 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Jalgaon , 


15 . Jalgaon 


. 


. Collector of Jalgaon , 


( 1 ) Prant Officer, Chalisgaon Division . 
( 2 ) Lcave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Jalgaon . 
( 3) Resident Deputy Collector, Jalgaon . 
(4 ) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 

Project , Bhusawal. 
( 1 ) Prant Officer, Jalgaon Division , 
( 2 ) Land Acquisition Officer, Defence 

Project, Bhusawal. 
( 3 ) Sub -Divisional Officer Malkapur . 
( 4 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Buldana. 


16 . Buldana 


, 


. Collector of Buldana 


3538 


GU 


OF 


. . : 


124, 


1/PAUSA % , 1888 


Part IT 


3 


17. Khomgaon 


Collector of Buldana . 


(1 ) Sut -Divisional Cfficer , Mohkar, 
(2) Sub - Divisional Officer, Khamgaon . 
(3 ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Jalgaon , 
(4 ) Sub -Divisional Cfficer, Washim . 


18 . Akola 


. 


. 


Collector of Akola . ] 


( I) Sub - Divigional Officer, Akola . 
(2 ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Akot. 
( 3 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Akola . 
(4 ) Sub- Divisional Officer, Balapur, 
(5 ) Sub - Divisional Officer , Mangrulpir. 
(6 ) Sub -Divisłonal Officer, Murtazapur. 


19 . Amravati 


Collector of Amravati." ( I) Sub -Divisional Officer, Daryapur, 

(2 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Achalpur. 
(3 ) Sub -Divisional Officer , Amravati. 
(4 ) Nazul Oficer, Amravati 
( 5 ) Sub - Divisional Officer , Chandur, 
(6 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Amravati. 


30 . Ramtok 


. 


. Collector of Nagpur, 


(I) Sub - Divisional Officer, Achalpur. 
(2 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Morshi. 
(3 ) Deputy Collector, Lend Reforma, 

Nagpur 
( 4) Sub -Divisional Officer, Katol. 
(5 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Saoner, 
(6 ) Sub- Divisional Officer , Ramtek . 


21. Nagpur 


, 


Collector of Nagpur. 


( I) Sub - Divisional Officer, Umrer, 
( 2 ) Special Land Acquisition Oficer 

N . I. T ., Nagpur, 
(3) Rent Controller and Deputy Collector, 

Nagpur. 
(4) Nazul Officer , Nagpur. 
(5 ) Deputy Collector and City Magistrate , 

Nagpur . 
(6 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Nagpur, 


22 . Bhandara 


. Collector of Bhandara. 


(1) Sub -Divisional Officer, Bhandara . 
(2 ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Gondia. 
( 3 ) Special Deputy Collector, Land 

Reforms, Bhandara . 


23 . Chimur 


. 


. Collector of Bhandara 


( 1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Bhandara. 
(2 ) Sub -Divisional Officer , Sakoli . 
(3 ) Special Deputy Collector, Land 

Reforms, Chanda, 
(4 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Brahmapurl, 
(5 ) Sub- Divisional Officer, Warora . 


No. 3( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 8 , 1888 


3539 


2 


24. Chanda 


Collector of Chanda . 


(1 ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Gadchiroli. 
(2 ) Sub - Divisional Officer , Sironch . 

at Aheri. 
( 3) Deputy Collector , Rajura . 
(4 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Chanda . 
(5 ) Sub- Divisional Officer, Warora . 


25 . Wanha 


. 


. Collector of Wardha . 


(1 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Arvi. 
( 2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Wardha . 
(3 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Wardha. 
(4 ) Sub - Divisional Officer, Hingaoghat . 
( 5) Sub -Divisional Officer, Wani. 
(6 ) Sub -Divisional Officer , Kolapur . 


26 . Yeotmals 


Collector of Yeotmal . 


( 1 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Kolapur . 
(2 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Yeotmal. 
( 3) Sub -Divisional Officer, Darwha. 
( 4 ) Sub -Divisional Officer, Pusad , 
(5 ) Resident Deputy Collector, Yeotmal. 


27 . Nanded 


. 


. Collector of Nanded . 


( 1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Nanded . 
(2 ) Deputy Collector Land Reforma 

Nanded . 
(3 ) Deputy Collector, Nanded . 
(4 ) Deputy Collector , Degloor. 


28 . Latur 


. 


. Colletor of Osmanabad . 


(I ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Nanded . 
(2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collectors 

Parbhani. 
( 3) Deputy Collector, Sailu , 
(4 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Osmanabad . 
(5) Deputy Collector, Udgir , 
(6 ) Deputy Collector, Latur. 


29 . Parbhani 


- Collector of Parbhgni. 


(I) Deputy Collector Land ceilings 

Parbhani, : 
(2 ) Deputy Collector, Hingoli . 
( 3 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Parbhani. 
(4 ) Deputy Collector, Sailu . 


30, Jalna . 


. 


. Collector of Aurangabad . (1) Deputy Collector, Jalna . 

( 2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Aurangabad , 
( 3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Jayakwadi Project, Aurangabad . 
(4 ) Assistant Collector, Bhir . 


2540 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DICEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8 , 1988 


[ l art JI 


3 


31. Aurangabad 


- Collector of Aurangabad . ( 1) D -puty Collector, Vaijapur. 

(2 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Aurangabad . 
(3 ) Project Officer, Urban Community 

D : velopm :nt Pilot Project, Auranga 


båd . 


32 . Bhir . 


, 


. Collector of Bhir. 


(4 ) Assistant Collector , Aurangabad . 
(5 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Jayakwadi Project, Aurangabad . 
( 1) D :puty Collector, Ambajegai. 
(2 ) Assistant Collector, Bhlr. 
( 3 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Bhir . 
(4) D -puty Collector, Land Reforms 

Bbir . 
( 5) D - puty Collector, Ambajogai. 
(I) D : puty Collector, Latur. 
( 2 ) Assistant Collector, Osmanabad 
( 3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer, 

Osmanabad . 
(4 ) Deputy Collector, Udgir . 
(5) Leave Reserve D -puty Collector, 

Ootmanabad . 


33 . Osmidabad 


. Collceror of Osmanabad . 


34 . Sholapur 


. 


as. Pandharpur . 


. Collector of Sholapur. (1 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Osmanabad . 
(2 ) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 

Appeals, Sholapur, 
( 3) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Sholapur. 
(4 ) Prant Officer , Sholapur Division , 

Sholapur, 
, Collector of Sholapur . ( 1) Prant Officer, Pandharpur Division 

Pandharpur. 
( 2 ) Special Deputy Collector (Land 

Ceiling ) for S , M . S . F . C . A , P . 

Ltd ., Malshiras, 
( 3) Prant Officer, Sholapur. 

(4 ) Pront Officer , Madha Division , 
Collector of Ahmednagar.] (1 ) Pradt Officer, Parner Division , Ahmed 

nagar . 
(2) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Ahmednagar , 
(3 ) Prant Officer, Rahuri Division , Ahmed 

nagar . 
Collector of Ahmednagar , ( 1 ) Deputy Collector and Agricultural 

Land Tribunal , Nagar Taluka . 
(2) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 

Appeals , Ahmednagar. 
(3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Mula Project, Ahmednagar . 
(4 ) Prant Officer , Sangamner Division 


36 . Ahmadnagar 


37. Kopargaon , 


- 


SEC , 3 ( 1)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


3541 


2 


3 


38 , Khed 


39. Poona 


. Collector of Poona. ( 1) Special Deputy Collector for Tenancy 

Appeals, Poona . 
(2 ) Prant Officer, Junnar Divisjon 

Khed , 
( 3 ) Assistant Commissioner (Revenue), 

Poona Division , Poona . 
(4) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

(9 ), Poona. 
(5) Deputy Collector and Agriculture ) , 

Land Tribunal, Baramati. 
(6 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector 

Commissioner s Officer , Poong . 
Collector of Poong. (I) Leave Rescive Deputy Collector 

Poona. 
(2) Assistant Commissioner (Land Ceilings, 

Poona. 
(3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer 

( 5 ) , Poong. 
(4 ) Assistant Commissioner (Supply) 

Poong Division , Poona. 
( 3 ) Additional Sub -Divisional Magistrate , 

Poona , 
(6 ) Deputy Collector of _ Sales Tax Re 

coveries , Poona Division . 
Additional Collector, Poona (1) Special Deputy Collector ( Land 

Ceiling) for S . M . S . F . & C . A , P . 

Ltd ., Malehiras , 
(2 ) Prant Officer, Madha Division . 
( 3 ) Deputy Collector of Income Tax 

Recoveries, Poona. 
(4 ) Special Land Adquisition Officer , 

(Southern Railway ), Poona . 
( 5 ) Deputy Collector for Land Ceilings 

Walchandnagar. 
(6 ) Prant Officer, Baramati Division , 

Baramati. 
. Collector of Satara , ( 1) Prant Officer , Phaltan Division , 

Phaltan . 
( 2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Satara . 
(3) Prant Officer , Satara. 
(4 ) Prant Officer, Mahableshwar Division 

Mahableshwar , 


40 . Baramati 


. 


41. Satara ) 


. 


42 . Karad 


, Collector of Satara . 


( I) Prant Officer, Mahableshwar Division , 

Mahableshwar , 
( 2 ) Prant Officer, Satara Division , Satara . 
( 3 ) Additional Special Land Acquisition 

Officer, Koyna Project, Satart . 
(4 ) Pradt Officer, Walva Division , Sangli . 
(1) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector, 

Sangli . 
( 2) Prant Officer , Miraj Division , Miraj. 
(3 ) Special Land Acquisition Officer , 

Broad Guage , Miraj. 


43. Sangli 


: 


. Collector of Sangli. 


3542 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 9, 1888 


[TART IT . 


44. Hatkanangale . 


. Collector of Kolhapur. 


(1) Special Deputy Collector Land Ceilingga 

Kolhapur, 
(2) Agricultural Lands Tribunal, Hatkan 

Angale . 
(3 ) Prant Officer , Shahu Wadi Division , 

Kolhapur, 
(4) Prant Officer, Karwir Division , 

Kolhapur, 
( 1) Prant Officer, Sawantwadi Division , 

Sawantwadi. 
( 2 ) Leave Reserve Deputy Collector , 

Kolhapur. 
(3 ) Prant Officer, Karvir Division , Kolha 

pur 
( 4 ) Prant Officer, Gadhinglaj Division . 


45 . Kolhapur . 


. Collector of Kolhapur. 


Note : — The reference to " Prant Officer " or Deputy Collector " shall in respect of any 

Prant which is for the timebeing in charge of an Assistant Collector be taken to be a 
reference to the Assistant Collector, 


[No . 434 / 

MT/06 ( 2 ) ] 

By Order, 
PRAKASH NARAIN , Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1968 
8 .0 . 3889. - - In pursuance of sub - section (5 ) of Section 6 of the Haj Committee 
Act, 1959 (51 of 1959 ) the elections, at the meeting of the Haj Committee held 
on the 23rd October, 1966 , of Shri M , Faki, Chairman , and Shri Shahid Kakhiri 
and Shri Khattal Musa Phantband , as Vice -Chairmen of the Haj Coinmittee for 
the next terms of Offlce , are hereby potifled . 

[No. M .II. 1181 (41) /66. ) 
V . A . KIDWAI, 

Director ( PV ) . 


विदेश मंत्रालय 
7€ farett, 14 faiat 1986 


Growto 3890 - - Afafa afufua , 1959 ( 1959 FT 51) FRUTTT 6 
FETT ( 5 ) 7 STREET 74 4 hafa fit 23 7977T 1966 # 464 # TETT # 
पद पर श्री एम० फकी और उपप्रधान के पदों पर श्री शहीद फकीरी और श्री खटल मसा 
पनिबन्द का निर्वाचन इसके द्वारा अधिसूचित किया जाता हैं । 


[ HTO THO 11. 1181 ( 41)/66] 

वी० ए० किदवई, 

fagurel 


Xizo. O VJ 


, 


GA 


3543 


OF INDIA : DECEM 24, 1986 / PAUSA 3, 1888 
- - 

- 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1966 


S . O . 3891 . - In pursuance of clause ( 1 ) of article 239 of the Constitution and 
all other powers enabling him in this behalf and in supersession of the notifications 
of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs, No. S . O . 2803 dated the 
23rd September , 1963 No . S . O . 2672 dated the 29th July , 1964 , and in partial modl- . 
fication of 


( 1) the notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of States 

No . 104 - J ( S . R .O . 460 ) dated the 24th August, 1950 , in so far as it 
relates to the exercise of powers and discharge of functions under the 
Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (5 of 1898 ) , by the Lieutenant 
Governor of Himachal Pradesh and the Chief Commissioner of Tripura ; 


and 


( ii ) the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home 

Affairs No . F . 2 / 1 / 57- Judl. II , dated the 3rd June, 1957, in so far as . 
it relates to the exercise of powers and discharge of functions under 
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 ( 5 of 1898 ) , by the Chief Com -- 
missioner of Manipur ; 


the President hereby directs that the Lieutenant Governors of the Union territories 
of Delhi and Himachal Pradesh and the Chief Commissioners of the Union terri 
tories of Manipur and Tripura shall, subject to the control of the President and 
until further orders , exercise the powers and discharge the functions of the appro 
priate Government under section 401 of the Code of Criminal Procedure , 1898 (5 
of 1898 ), within their respective territorial jurisdictions, except in respect of 
( a ) cases involving the sentence of death where such sentence has not been 

commuted ; 


(b ) cases where the sentence is for an offence against any law relating to any 

of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the 
Constitution ; and 


( c ) cases where the order referred to in sub - section (4A ) of section 401 of 

the said Code is passed under any law relating to any of the matters 
enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution , 


[No. F .2 / 11 / 86 -UTL ) 


P . N . VASUDEVAN , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1986 


8 . 0 . 3892 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema- . 
tograph Act, 1952 , and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints , 
the following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors , 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Madras with immediate 
effect , 

1. Shri M . K . Than /kachalam . 
2. Shri R , Jawahar , 
3 . Shri K , E . Arunachalam . 
4 . Shri Soora Nagamiah Chetty . 
3 . Shri P . Unni Krishnan , 

[ No, 11/ 3 / 65 -FC .) 


3s 


- 1HE GAZETTE OF INDLA : DECEMBER 24, 1988 / PAUS4 3. 1888 


[PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


New Delhi, the 12th December 1968 
S . O . 3893.- - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 (1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952, and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph (Censorship ) Rules , 1958, the Central Government hereby appoints 
the following persons after consultation with the Central Board of Film Censors , 
As a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Bombay with immediate 
effect, 

1 . Kumari Vatsala Nadkarni. 
2 , Smt. Nirmala Srivastava . 

[ No. 11/ 4 / 66 -FC.) 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1966 
S .O . 3894 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 , and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 and sub 
rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby re - appoints Smt. Nalinį Debi Routroy after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said 
" Board at Calcutta with immediate effect. 

[No. 11 / 3 / 88 -FC . ] 


S . O . 3895 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 , and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 8 read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules, 1958 , the Central Government hereby appoints 
Shri Paritosh Sen after consultation with Central Board of Film Censors , 
as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said Board at Calcutta with immediate 
effect. 

[No. 11 / 3 / 88- FC .A 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1986 


S . O . 3896 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cinema 
tograph Act, 1952 , and sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule 9 read with sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 and 
sub - rule ( 3 ) of rule . 8 of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central 
Government hereby re- appoints Smt. Sarojini Vardappan , after consultation with 
the Central Board of Film Censors , as a member of the Advisory Panel of the said 
Board at Madras with immediate effect . 


[No, F . 11 / 3 / 65 -FC. ] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 13th December, 1966 . 
9 . 0 . 3897 . - O pursuance of the directions issued under the provisiong of cach 
of the enactments specifiad in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central Government 
after considering the recommendations of the Film , Advisory Board , Bombay hereby 
approves the films specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in Gujarati to be 
of thedescription specified against each in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


( 1) Sub -Section ( 4 ) of Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (C - n 

tral Act XXXVII of 1952 ) . 
(2 ) Sub -Section ( 3) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinem 18 (Regulation 

Act, 1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 


( 3 ) Sub - Section ( 4 ) of Sections and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 

1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 


Sec. $( is)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1986 / PAUSA 8 , 1888 


3545 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Si. 
No. 


Title of the 

film 


Length 
35 mm 


Name 

of the 
Applicant 


Name 
of the 
Producer 


Whether a Scientific film 
or & film Intended for edu 
cational purposes or a Alm 
dealing with news and 
current cvents or a docu 
mentary film . 


T23 


6 


I Malitichitra No. 73 


263 M 


Director of Information , Rilm dealing with news 

Governdent of Guja - and curent events ( For 
rat , Ahmedabad . 

release in Gujarat Cir 
cuit only ), 


2 Mahitichitra No. 74 


241 M . 


Du. 


Do . 


[No, F . 24 /1 /66 - FP App . 1141. ] 


S . O . 3898. - In purguance of the Directions issued under the provisions of the 
chactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government after 
considering the recorrimendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby approves the film 
Apecified in Column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of. 
the description specified against it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule , 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 


( 1) Sub -Section (4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 

(Central Act XXXVII of 1952) , 


(2 ) Sub - Section ( 3) of Section S and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 

1953 , (Bombay Act XI of 1953). 


( 3 ) Sub -Section (4 ) of Section 5 and Suction 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas (Regulation ) . 

Act , 1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 


THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


No. 


Title of the 

film 


Length 
35 mm 


Namc 
of tho 
Applicant 


Name Whether a scientific film 
of the or a film intended for cdu 
Producer cational purposes or # 

film dealing with news and 
current events or docu 
mentary film . 


I Maharashtra News 

No. 174 


295 M 


Directorate of Publicity , 

Govt. of Mabarashtra , 
Bombay. 


Film , dealing with news 

and current events ( For 
relcasc in Maharashtra 
Circuit only ) 


[No. F .24 /1 /66 - FP App. 1140 . ] 

D . R . KH ANNA Dy. Secy 


3546 THE GAZETTE OY INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1986 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


[PART N 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

COOPERATION 
(Department of Co -operation ) 
New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 


S . O . 3899. - In exercise of the power conferred by Section 5B of the Multi -Unit 
Cooperative Societies Act, 1942 ( 6 of 1942 ) and in supersession of the former Minis 
try of Community Development and Cooperation (Department of Cooperation ) 
notifcation No. 3 - 14 /64 -CT dated the 31st May, 1965 , the Central Government here 
by directs that the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the 
Government of India in the former Ministry of Community Development and Co 
operation (Department of Cooperation ) No. S . O . 1593, dated the 28th June, 1981 
published at page 1555 of Part II, Section 3 ( il) of the Gazette of India of the 8th 
July , 1961, namely : 

In the said notifcation against serial No. 15 for the entry " Shri $ . S . Verma" 
the entry " Shri R . N . Sengupta " shall be substituted . 

[No . 7-13 /68-Credit.] 
V . V . NATHEN , Dy . Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT & AVIATION 
(Department of Transport and Shipping) 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1966 
S . O . 3900. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 218 
of the Merchant Shipping Act, 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , read with rules 3 and 4 of the 
National Welfare Board for Seafarers Rules, 1963, the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Transport and Aviation , Department of Transport, Shipping and 
Tourism , ( Transport Wing) No , S . O , 1883, dated the 16th June, 1966 , namely : 

In the said notification , for the existing entries against serial number 40 , the 
following entries shall be substituted , namely : - - 


" Shri . S . K . Bosc , Director, Seamen s 
Employment Office , Calcutta . 


Representative of societies interested 

in Welfare of semen . 


(No. 14 -MT( 14 ) / 65.] 
B . B . LAL , Under Secy . 


(Department of Aviation and Turism ) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 
S . O . 3901. - On his resignation Shri S . R . Vasavada ceased to be a Member of 
the Boards of the Indian Airlines Corporation and Air India Corporation with 
effect from 5th December 1966. 

[No. 3- CA ( 16 ) / 86. ] 
J. N . GOYAL , Jt. Secy . 


MINISTRY OFMINES AND METALS 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1986 
S . O . 3902. Whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Steel, Mines and Heavy Engineering (Department of Mines and 
Metals ) S . O . No. 42 dated the 28th December , 1963 , under sub - section ( 1 ) of 


Sec . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966/ PAUSA 3, 1888 


3547 


Section 4 of the Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 
of 1967) , the Central Government gave notice of its intention to prospect for coal 
in 5035 - 00 acres (approximately ) or 2039 : 18 hectares (approximately ) of lands in 
the locality specified in the Schedule appended to that notification . 


And whereas by the notification of the Government of India in the late Minis 
try of Steel and Mincs ( Department of Mines and Metals ) S .O . No. 3864 dated the 
7th December, 1965 under sub -section ( 1 ) of Section 7 of the said Act, the Central 
Government gave notice specifying a further period of one year commencing from 
the 28th December , 1965, as the period within which the Central Government may 
give notice of Its intention to acquire the lands or of any rights in or over such 
lands described in that notification ; 


And whereas the Central Government is satisfied that coal is obtainable in 
whole of the said land ; 


Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
Section 7 of the Coal Bearing Areas ( Acquisition and Development) Act , 1957 , the 
Central Government hereby gives notice of its intention to acquire 


( a ) the lands measuring 773 : 80 acres ( approximately ) or 313 : 39 hectares 

( approximately ) described in Schedule A appended hereto ; and 


(b ) the rights to mine, quarry , bore, dig and search for , win , work and 

carry away minerals in the lands measuring 4261: 20 acres (approxi 
mately or 1725 :77 hectares ( approximately ) described in the Schedule 

B appended hereto : 
NOTE 1 . The plans of the area covered by this notification may be inspected 
in the Office of the Deputy Commissioner, Dhanbad ( Bihar ) , or in the Office of 
the Coal Controller, 1, Council House Street, Calcutta or in the Office of the 
National Coal Development Corporation Ltd ., (Revenue Section ) , Darbhanga 
House , Ranchi (Bihar ) . 


NOTE 2 . - Attention is hereby invited to the provision in section 8 of the Coal 
Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1967, which provides as 
follows: 


H 


. VIL 


L 


. - 


. - 


. 


8 ( 1 ) " Any person interested in any land in respect of which a notification 

under section 7 has been issued may , within thirty days of the issue 
of the notification object to the acquisition of the whole or any part 
of the landor of any rights in or over such land . 


Explanation . It shall not be an objection within the meaning of this section 

for any person to say that he himselt desires to undertake mining 
operations in the land for the production of coal and that such opera 
tions should not be undertaken by the Central Government or by any 
other person . 


( 2 ) Every objection under sub -section ( 1 ) shall be made to the competent 

authority in writing, and the competent authority shall give the 
objector an opportunity of being heard either in person or by a legal 
practitioner and shall, after hearing all such objections and after making 
such further inquiry , if any, as he thinks necessary , submit the case 
for the decision of the Central Government together with the record 
of the proceedings held by him and a report containing his recom 
mendations on the objections. 


( 3 ) For the purposes of this Section , a person shall be deemed to be in 

terested in land who would be entitled to claim an interest in com 
pensation if the land or any rights in or over guch land were acquired 
under this Act" . 


It may be noted that the Coal Controller , 1 - Council House Street , Calcutta - 1. 
has been appointed by the Central Government as the competent authority under 
the Act . 


3548 1HI GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA }, 1888 


[PART II 


* All Rights 


SCHEDULE A 
PARBATPUR BLOCK 

SUB -BLOCK - I 
Sharia Coalfield 


Drg . No. Rev /29 /66 
Dated 6 - 10 - 66 


(showing lands to be 

acquired .) 


Village 


Thana 


Serial 
number 


Thana 
number 


District 


Area 


Remarks 


Chas 


Parbatpur 
Batbinor 


204 Dhanbad 
205 Dhanbad 


Part . 
Part. 


2 . 


, Chas 


Total area : 95 * 10 acres (Approximately ) 

OR 38 . 52 Hectares (Approximately ). 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Parbatpur : 

626 to 736 , 737 ( P ), 738( P ) , 739 to 745 , 746 ( P ), 747 (P ), 748 ( P ), 749 (P ): 751( P ), 762 ( P ), 763 ( P ), 
765 (P ), 766 (P ), 767(P ), 768 (P ), 769 to 815 , 816 ( P ), 817 ( P ), 818 to 828 ar d 2330 . 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Bathinor : 

950 (P ),952 (P ), 953(P ), 956 (P ), 961(P ), 962 and 963 (P ). 
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION OF SUB-BLOCK I . 


2 - 4 


Line passes through plot numbers 751, 746 , 747, 749 , 748 , 738 , 737 , 762 , 763 , 
765 , 766 , 767, 768 , 816 and 817 in village Parbatpur, through plot numbers 952 , 950 . 
952 , 953, 961, 956 and 963 in village Batbinor and meets at point 4 . 


4 — 3 


Line passes along the part northern boundary ofRoad in villages Batbinor and Par 
batpur and meets at point 3 . 


3- — 2 


Line passes along the part southern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at starting point z . 


SCHEDULE 
SUB - BLOCK - II 


AU Right 


( Showing lands to be 

acquired ) 


Village 


Thang 


Serial 
number 


District 


Thana 
number 


Area 


Remarks 


1. 
2 . 


Parbatpur 
Barbinor 


. Chøg 


Part . 
Part . 


. 


204 Dhanbad 
205 Dhanbad 


Chas 


Total area : 325 . 30 acres ( approximately ) 

OR 131 . 75 Hectares ( Approximately ) . 


SEC. $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


3549 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Parbaipur : 

830 to 1241, 1242 (P ) , 1243 to 1249, 1250 (P ), 1251(P ), 1252 , 1253, 1254 , 1255 (P ), 1261(P ), 
1271( P ), 1273, 1275 ( P ), 1276 ( P ) , 1277 ( P ), 1278 , 1279 , 1280 ( P ) , 1281 ( P ) , 1282 to 1287, 1288 ( P ), 
1289 , 1290, 1291, 1292 (P ), 1297 (P ), 1299 ( P ), 1300 ( P ) , 1301( P ), 1383 ( P ), 1384 ( P ), 1385 (P ), 1386 , 
1387, 1388( P ), 1389 ( P ), 1390 , 1391 , 1392, 2333, 2334, 2335, 2336 ( P ), 2501 ( P ), 2503( P ) , 2504 ( P ), 
2505 , 2505, 2507 (P ) , 2508 ( P ), 2510 ( P ), 2511 ( P ) , 2512 , 2513 2514 ( P ), 2515 ( P ), 2517 ( P ) , 
2518 ( P ), 2519 , 2520 , 2521( P ), 2550 and 2551. 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Batbinor: 

2980 (P ) , 2982 (P ), 2983 (P ), 2984 to 3007, 3008(P ), 3009 , 3010 ( P ), 3013 (P ), 3014 (P ), 3015, 3016 
and 3017 ( P ). 
BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION OF SUB -BLOCK II 
5 – 40 Line passes through plognumbers 2980 , 2982 , 2983 , and 3010 in village Batbinor and 

meets at point 40 . 
40 - 7 Line passes through plot numbers 3010 , 3008 , 3010 , 3013 , 3014 , and 3017 , in village 

Batbinor and passes along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur and Ku 
raya or Babugram , Parbatpur and Uparbandha and meets at point 7 . 


1 – 6 Line passos through plot numbers : 2521, 2518 , 2517 , 2518 , 2515 , 2514 , 2508, 2511, 

2508 , 2510 , 2509 , 2507 , 2508 , 2501, 2501, 2336 , 1250 , 2503, 1250 , 1251, 1255, 1261, 
along the part northern boundary of plot numbers 1261, 1249 , through plot numberg 
1242 , 1271, 1275, 1276 , 1277 , 1280 , 1281, 1301, 1300 , 1299, 1288, 1297, 1292, 1389 , 

1398 1383 , 1384a7d1385 in village Parbatpur and mects at point 6 . 
6 – 5 Line passes along the southern boundary o - Road in villages Parbatpur, Batbinor and 
mcets at starting point s . 

SCHEDULE 
‘ All Rrights 

SUB-BLOCK III 

(Showing lands to be 

acquired ) 


Village 


Thana 


Serial 
number 


District 


Area 


Thana 
number 


Remarks 


· Chas 

Chag 


204 Dhanbad 
209 Dhanbad 


Part . 
Part. 


Parbatpur 
Nayaban or 

Pabrataar 
Talgaria 
Fatepur 


Chas 
Chas 


210 Dhanbad 
212 Dhanbad 


Part 
Part . 


Total area : 353 40 acres ( approximately ) 

OR 143 . 13 Hectarcs ( approximately ) 


Plot nuinbers to be acquired in village Parbatpur: 

1400 ( P ) , 1416 ( P ), 1434 ( P ) , 1435( P ), 1437 ( P ), 1439 ( P ) , 1505 (P ) , 1506 ( P ), 1507 ( P ) , 1508 , 1509 ( P ) 
1510 ( P ), 1527 (P ), 1531( P ), 7532 ( P ), 1533( P ) , 1537( P ), 1541( P ), 1542 ( P ), 1543 (P ) , 1544 ( P ), 1545( P ) , 
1546 / P ), 1550( P ), 1551( P ), 1552 ( 1 ) , 1553 ( P ), 1557( P ) , 1558 P ), 1560 (P ), 1561( P ), 1967 (P ) , 1568 ( P ) , 
1569 (P ), 1581( P ), 1585( P ), 1592 ( P ) , 1593 (P ), Tho2( P ), 1603( P ) , 1605 (P ), 1607( P ), I611 (P ) , 1612 (P ), 
1614 ( P ), 1670 ( P ), 1671 , 1672( P ) , 1678 ( P ) , 1679 ( P ) , 1680 ( P ) , 1682( P ), 1725 (P ), 1726CP ), 
1727 , 1728 , 1729 ( P ), 1730 (P ), 1731 ( P ), 1732 (P ), 1744 ( P ), 1745 ( P ), 1746 , 1747 ( P ), 1748 (P ), 1770 (P ), 
1841( P ) , 1874 ( P ) , 2017 ( P ) , 2018 ( P ), 2019 ( P ) , 2020 ( P ), 2040 ( P ) , 2044 ( P ), 2046 (P ) , 2054 ( P ), 2055 , 
2056 (P ), 2057 ( P ) , 2058 ( P ) , 2059( P ), 2061 ( P ), 2052 ( P ), 2053 to 2070 , 2071 ( P ), 2072( P ), 2081 (P ) , 
2203( P ) , 220 ) ( P ), 2210 P ) , 2211 ( P ), 2212 ( P ), 2227 ( P ), 2233 ( P ) , 2234, 2235 (P ), 2236 ( P ) , 2256 (P ) , 
2257, 2258 , 2259 (P ), 2250 ( P ) , 2261( P ) , 2263( P ) , 2264 (P ) , 2265 (P ) , 2266 (P ) , 2267 (P ), 2268, 2269 (P ) , 
2270 (P ), 2301 ( P ) , 2302 ( P ), 2315 ( P ) , 2316 to 2321, 2323 , 2324 ( P ), 2327, 2328 ( P ) , 2337 , 2338 ( P ), 
2339 ( P ) , 2340P ), 2341, 2342 , 2343, 2344 ( P ), 2363 ( P ), 2364, 2365, 2366 ( P ) , 2367, 2368 , 2369, 
2370 , 2771( P ), 2372 , 2373 (P ) , 2374 , 2375 ( P ), 2376 , 2377 (P ), 2389 (P ), 2390 , 2391 ( P ), 2392 , 
2393 ( P ), & 2394 to 2404 


3550 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA $, 1888 


[PART II 


- - - - 


- . 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nayaban or Pabratanr : 

1375( P ) , 1376 , 1377 (P ), 1378 (P ) , 1449( P ) , 1450 ( P ), 1454 (P ), 1455 ( P ), 1456 to 1459 , 1460 ( P ) , 
1462( P ), 1463 to 1472 , 1473 (P ) , 1474 (P ) , 1515 (P ) , 1516 (P ), 1519 (P ), 2590 ( P ) , 2591, 2592, 2593( P ) 
2606 ( P ), and 2607 ( P ) . 


Plot number: to be acquireitin villag.. Taisarin. : 

249 ( P ), 250 (P ), 251 ( P ), 252 ( T ), 253 (P ), 255( P ), 256 (P ), 257 ( P ), 258 , 219 (P ), 260 , 261(P ),262P ), 
297 ( P ) , 298 ( 1 ) , 306 ( P ), 307 to 311 , 312 ( P ) , 313 to 343, 344 ( P ), 345 to 405, 406 ( P ), 407 ( P ), 409 ( P ) , 
418 ( P ) , 419 (P ), 420 , 421( P ), 422 ( P ), 123 to 156 , 457 ( P ), 458 ( P ), 460 ( P ), 461 to 165, 166 ( P ), 467( P ) , 
487 ( P ), 488 ( P ), 489 ( P ), 491( P ), 504 ( 1 ), 505 10 555, 556 ( P ). 557 ( 1 ), 558 , 550 ( P ), 563 ( P ). 564/ F ) , 
565( P ), 566 ( P ), 5117 ( P ), 568/ P ), 626 ( P ), 629( P ), 651( P ), 654 ( P ), 655 ( P ), 656( P ) , 457 106 , F61( P ) , 
662 to 667, 668 (1 ), 669, 6701P ), 671( P ), 673 to 717, 718 ( P ), 719( P ), 720( P ), 721( P ), 723( P ), 734 (Pi, 
736 ( P ), 753 ( P ), 807 ( P ), 809 / P ), RIO (P ) , 811 ( ) , 812 ( P1. 873 ( P ). 814 , 81 < ( P ), 810 ( P ) , 81711 ), 821I ). 
853 / P ), 851, 855, 856 ( P ) , 857. 858 ( P ), 867 (P ), 930/ P ), 931( P ), 1012 ( P ), 1013 , 10141P ), 1015 ( P ), 
1023( 1 ) , 1021, 1025 (Pl. TO26 ( P ) . Uo8 ( P ). 1113 , 111 ( P ), 1116 , 1117 , 1118 , 1119 . 1120 , 1131 ( P ), 
1126 ( P ), 1243 ( ? ), 1241 ( P , 128 ( P ), 1290 / P ) , 1291, 1292 ( P ), 1292 / P , 1294 ( P ), 12051P ), 126 to 13055 , 
1306 ( 1 ), 1307 , 1308 ( P ), 1300 , 13TO (P ) , 1352/ P ). 1313 , 1314 , 1314 ( P ), 1310 (P ) , 1510 ( P ), 1556( P ) , 
1557( P ) , 1559 ( P ), 1560T) , 161 ( P ) , 1642( P ), 16401P ), 1645( T ), 1646 to 16 - 8 , 16 < / T ) INÉCIT ) , 
1661( P ), 1662 , 1663/ P ) , 1664( P ), ideoip . JAFO ( P ) Ific (T ) ifrito 1707 170811 . ) ( 5 ( P ) , 
1710 , 17II, 1712 ( P ), 1713 ( 1 ) , 1711, 1715( P ). 1716 ( P ). 171710 1771 , 1772 ( P ) . 1773 , 1763/ P ), 17841P ), 
1787 ( P ), 1788 ( P ), 1780 ( P ) , 1791 ( P ), 179511 ), 196 ( P ), 1802 ( P ), 1821 , 1822 , 1823 ( P ), 1827 ( P ). 
182917 ), 1830 , 1831, 1832 , 1833, 1836 , 1837 , 1828 , 1839, 1840 (P ), 1841(P ). 1842( P ), 1843( P ) and 
1844 (P ). 

Plotnumbers to be acquired in village Fatrpır : 


144( P ) , 145 ( P ). 148( P ), 149( P ), 153 ( P ), 754 ( P ) , 155 ( P ), 156 ( P ), 157, 158 , 159 , I 0 , 161( P ) , 
162 ( P ) , 164 ( P ), 165 ( P ) , 166 , 167 , 168 , 169 , 170 ( P ), 171 to 175 , 176 ( P ) . 177 ( P ) , 239 ( P ), 241( P ) , 242 ( P ), 
243 (P ), 244 10 250 , 251( P ) , 252 (P ), 253 ( P ) , 255 ( P ), 277/ P ), 278 , 279 ( P ) , 280 , 281( P ) , 282 ( P ) , 284 ( P ), 
285 ( P ), 286 , 287 , 288 ( P ), 2801P ), 290 ( P ), 915 ( P ) , 958 ( P ), 959( P ) , 962 ( P ), 963 ( P ), 960 ( P ), $ 65( P ), 
966 ( P ), 967 ( P ), 968 ( P ), 960/ P ), 970 , 071, 978 ( T ), 089 ( P ). 985 ( P ). 986/ P ), 987, 988, 9 & ( P ). 950( P ), 
993 (P ), 994 ( P ). 998 ( P ) , 099 (P ), 1000 ( P ), 1002 ( P ), JOI9 ( P ), 102 ( P ), 1028. 1029 ( P ), 1030( P ), 1031 , 
TO32 ( P ), 1033 ( P ), 10341P ) , 1035( P ). 1036, 103 ( P ) , 1038, 1039 ( P ) . JCJO( P ), 1065( P ), 1066 , ( P ), 
1068 to 1074 , 1075 ( P ) , 1094 ( P ), 1095 ( P ), J096 ( P ), 1097 ( P ), 1008 ( P ), 1099 , 1100 ( P ), 
II01 ( P ), 1119 ( P ) , 1120 ( P ), 1121( P ), 1122 ( P ) , 1123 ( P ) , 1126 ( P ) , 1134 (P ), 1136 (P ) , 
1137 ( P ), 1138 ( P ), 1139 ( P ), 1146 ( P ). 1205 ( P ) , 1254 ( P ), 1255 ( P ), 125€ (P ), 1257 ( P ), 128( P ), 1259, 
1260 ( P ), 1262 ( P ), 1263 ( P ), 1264 ( P ) , 1266 ( P ), 1267( P ) 1283 ( P ), 1301( P ), 1302 ( P ) . 1303 ( P ). 
1304 ( 1 ) 1305 ( 1 ), 1308 ( P ), J309( P ), 1312 , 1313 , 1314 ( P ), 1315 to 1326 , 1327( P ), 1328 ( P ) , 
1329 (P ), 1330 ( P ) , 1331 to 1362 , 1363 ( P ) , 1383 ( P ) , 1384 ( P ) , 1385 ( P ) , 1386 to 1416 , 1417 ( P ) , 
1424 ( P ) , 1.425 ( P ) , 1426 ( P ), 1427 ( P ), 1428 ( P ), 142911 ), 1430 ( P ), 1431( P ), 1432 ( P ) , 1433 ( P ) , 
1439 ( P ), 1455( P ) , 1456CP ), 1457 / P ), 1458 ( P ), 1459 ( P ), 1460 ( P ), 1461 ( P ). 1462( P ), 1463 ( P ) , 
1464 ( P ) , 1496 ( P ), 1506 ( P ). 1718 ( P ) . 1719 , 1720 , 1721 ( P ) , 1722 ( P ) , 1736 ( P ) , 1737( P ) , 1738 , 
1739( P ) , 1740 , 1741, 1742 ( P ), 1743 ( P ), 1744 (P ) , 1747( P ), 1748 to 1799 , 1800 ( P ) , 1805( P ), 1806 ( P ), 
1807( P ), 1808, 1809 , 1810 ( P ) , 1811 ( P ) , 1812 , 1813 , 1814 ( P ) , 1815 (P ), 1816 ( P ) , & 1821 . 


Boundary Description of Şub- Block III 

31 - - 30 Line passes through plot numbers 239 , 242, 241 , 177 , 176 , 170 , 154 , 155 , 149 , 156 , 
148, 145 and 144 in village Fatepur through plot numbers IT08 , 1114, 1026 , 1025, 1023 , 1015 , 1014 , 
TO12 , 1306 , IOI2 , 1308 , T310 , along the part Eastern , Southern and part Western boundary of plot 
number 1311 , through plot numbers 1310 , 1716 , 858, 867, 856 , 30, $ 31, 853, 422, 421 , 419 , 418 , 
409, 406 , 407, 344 , 249 , 250 , 251, 252 , 253 , 255 , 256 , 257 , 259 , 262 , 261, 297 , 298 , 306 and 312 in 
village Talgaria , through plot numbers 1375 , 1377 , 1375, 1378 , 1459, 1454 , 14€0 . 1462. IA5O . 1449 , 
1473, 1474, 2607, 1515 , 1516 , along part western houndary of plot number 2007. Hictiph plot 
number 1519, along western and part Southejn boundary of plot number IST 8 , though plot numrter 
1519 along Eastern boundary of plot numhcr 2588 in village Nayaban or Pabratenr ard Iceta at 
point 30 . 


30 — 29 -- 28 , Linęs pass through plot nurrhess 2006 , 259oerd 2993 . in villrec Nevilen erd 
Pabratanr, through plot number 2018 in villege Parbatpur, then posice alrittersitceterliure 
dary of Road ( plot No . 2018 and 1400 ) in villag Parbatpur, through plot risters 1614 . 1612 ( 11 , 
1607, 1606 , 1603 , 1602 , 1993, 1592, 1585, 1984 , 1549, 158, 157, 1FI ( 1958 . 44 * , J ! ! , 
1552 , 1551 , 2328 , 1505 , along eastern boundary of plot number 1504 , through plot rurlu 
1510 , 1434 , 1435 , 1437 , 1939 , 1416 and 1400 in village Parbatpur ardmeet at point 28 , 


Bro. 3 (1 ) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA $ , 1888 


3551 


- 


23 - -27 Line passes along the part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at point- 27 . 

27 - 26 - 25 - 24 Lines pass through plot numbers 1416 , 1437 , 1435 , 1434 , 1510 . 1907, 1906 , 
2328, 1931, 1932, 1533 , 1527, 2270 , 2269 , 22 ( 3 , 221, 22 ( 0 . 1 .49, - 315 , : 30 & 301 in villige 
Parbatpur and mectat point 24 . 

24 - 23 Line passes along the part northern boundary of Railway in villege Partaisu ard 
meets at point 23 . . 

23 -22 -21-20 - 19 - 18 Lines pass through plot nittois : 393 2391 7219 2375 1377. 375 , 
2371, 2363 , 2371 , 2366 , 2371, 2373 , 2344 , 2339 , 2338 . 2340 , 7338 , 2209 , 2210 , 2211. 2203, alorg 
paft soutliern Foundai y of plot ntntes 2201, thucuph plot tilniteil2263 2212 2211, 22 : 7 : 2211 , 
2324 , 2235 , 2233 , 2235 , 2236 , 2256 2259 , 22 / 0 , 22€1 . 25 ( : ( 4 : 2210, ill . 2017. 143. 1937, 
1545, 1541, 1545, 1542 , 1543 , 1544, 1546 , 1551, 1550 , 1951, 1874 , 1841, 1682, 1611, 1612 , 1614 , 
1680 1679 , 1678 , 1672 , 1726 , 1725 , 1726 , 1732, 1731, 1730 , 1729 , 1744 , 1745 , 1744 srd 1747 in 
village Parbatpurand meet at point 18 . 


18 - 17 - 16 - 15 - 14 - 13 - 12 , Lincs pass thiouch Fluitint ( 127 , 1748. 1770 . 2017 . 2019 1020 , 
2040 , 2057 , 2044 , 2046 , 2054 , 2056 , 2058 . 2059 , 2002. ; ( F1. 20 & 1. 2072 . 2071, in village Pat2111 
along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur and Talgaria and though plot numtcis 753 , 
723 , 718 , 219 , 720, 72 , 734, 736 , 654 , 655 , 656 . 661, ( 11 . . ( 50 , 671, 626 , 625 , ( 26 . 554, 18 : 9 , 
557 , 568, 567, 566 , 850 , 809 , 807 . 811 . 815 . 1823. 617 , 816 . 488 . 487 . 852 , 843 , 1756 , 1579 , 1802 , 1836 , 
in village Talgatja , 1hiouch plotrimtrie TOT , 145 , 1455. 145 ( 1457, 1459. 140. 14 ( 1. 1496 , 14 ( 3 , 
1464, 1429 , 1464 , 1428 , 1127, 14261 , 1425 . 1424 . 14 : 3 . 562 . 5 / 2 . 5 ( s . c ( m . in . ro ! ! ( , 
986 , 978 , 994 , 993 . 598 , 1029 , 1030 , 1039 , 1040 , 1037 , IICO . JC94 . IC55 . ard 1098 in Villiiec Titik 
pur and mcet at point 12 . 

12 - 11- 10 Lines pass through plot numbers icÇA , IC67, 1996 . 1305, 1304 , 1508 , 1349 . 1908 , 1927 , 
1328 , 1329 , 1330 , 1075 , 1067, 1065 , 1417 , 1747 , 1744 , 143 , 1742 . 1739, 1718 , 1722 . 1721. 1736 . 
1737 , 1800 , 1805 , 1806 , 1807, 1810 , 1811, 1815 , 1814 1816 , and 1283 , in villagc Fatcgur Erd 
meet at point io 

10 - 43 Linc pa... es along the rart common Foundry of villages Fate pur erd mlał ad ard 
meets at point 43 . ; 

43 - 42 -41- 44 Lines pass though plot nuorters 1283 , 1983 , 1384. 1385, 13 ( 3 . 361. J134. 13C2 
1303, 1314 , 1308 , 1309 , 1304 . 1305 , 1122 , IIZI 1122 . 1123 , 1122, 1126 , 1134 , 1138 , 1137 , 1136 , 1255, 
1301, 1258 , 1260, 1262, 123, 1264 , 126, 1267. ard 120 % in ville ge Fatcpur and meet at point 44 . 

44- 37 Line passes along the part right terl 01River Darredar in Village Fatepur and mects 
at point 37 . 

37- 36 -35- 34 Lines pass through plot numcı8 1205 , 1267. J2 6 . 1257 . J257 . 7254 . 1138 . 1929 , 
1134, 1146 , 1122 , 1121, 1120 , 1119 , 110, 1101, 1035, 1034 , 1033, 1032 , 1027, 1002 , IOCO , 593 , 
989, 990 , 969 , 965, 964, 963 . 962 . 959. 958 , 915 , 1133, 1427. 1428 . 1432 . 149. 1 : 30 . T23 ) . 1 / S , 
1463 , 1463, 1458, 1455, in village Futesut, through flow ristre JS6, 1147. 1 ( n . 165 . 8 - 3 . 452 , 
487, 489, 813 , 491, 813 , 812 , 563, 564, 563, 565 , 5€8, 557. 559 . 504 , 457 458 , 460, 467, 416 . 8 * 2 , 
and 1772 , in village Talgaria and meet at point 34 . 

34 -33 - 32 - 31 Lines pass thiough plotilitete 1772 , 1783 , 1784 , 1787 , 1788 , 179, 1791, J ( IT , 
1645, 1644 , 1643 , 1659, 1660 , 1661, 1663 , 164, 1369, 1370 , 1679 , 1708, 1709 . 1510 , 1319 , 1512 , 
1713 , 1716 , 1715, 1716 , 1312 , 1315 , 124 , 1244 , 1827 , 1295 , 1294 , 1293 . 1752 , 1290 . 1884 . 1813 , 
1842 , 1841 , 1840 , 1290, 1289, 1126 and 1J21, in village Talgorje through plot purtats IJ. IG , 
164 , 165 , 253, 255 , 252 , 251, 277 along the commor Foundary ofplotnumbers 276 and 278 , 1hscugh 
plot numbers 282 , 288 , 289 , 290 , 285 , 284, 282 , 281, 279 , 243 , and 239 , in village Faiefur ard rect 
starting point 31 . 

SCHEDULE - B 
PARBATPUR BLOCK ( Talgaria ) 

SUB- BLOCK - IV 
Mining rights -1 
(showirglard where rights to mine , quarry ,bore: dig ard scarch for win ,work and carry away 
minerals are to be acquired .) 

Jheria Coalfeld 


Serial 
No. 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
Dumber 


District 


Arca 


Remarks 


90 


Dhanbad 


I Tetengabad 
2 Majhiladi or Jogidi 
3 Bardubhi 


Jharia 
Jharia 
Jharia 


91 


Part . 
Patt . 
Part . 


1 


. 


, 


3552 IAT, GAZTTE OF INDIA ; DECEMBER 24, 1968 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


( PART II 


Village 


Thana 


Thana 
Number 


District 
Area 


Remark 


4 Jatudih 
Ś Gangadih 
6 Jarmi 
7 Parbatpur 
8 Batbinor 
9 Diborda 
10 Niyaban or Pabratani 
II Talgaria 

Silphor , 
Fatepur 
Kendulia 
Tilatanr . 

Birajdi 
17 Nawadi 
18 Karmatang 
19 Dibagram 
20 Uparbandha 
21 Jugidi 
22 Mahal 


Tharia 
, Jharia 
, Jharia 

Chas 
Chas 
Chas 
Chas 
Chas 
Chas 
Chas 

Chas 
• Chas 

Chas 
Chas 
Chas 


Fateh, 


104 Dhanbad 
IOS 
106 
204 
205 
208 
209 
210 
211 
212 
215 
216 
217 
218 
219 
220 
221 
222 
225 


Part 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Full 
Part 
Part 
Part 
Full 
Full 
Full 
Full 
Part 
Part 
Part 


14 


15 
16 


Bil 


Cras 


Chas 
Chas 
Chąg 


TOTAL 


arca : 4217 . 50 acres (Approximately ) 
OR : 1708. 09 Hectares (Approximately). 


Plot number to be acquired in village Tetengabad : 

253 ( P ) . 
Plot number to beequired in village Mujhiladi or jogidi : 

608 . 
Plot number to be acquired in village Bardubhi : 

969. 
Plot number to be a quired in village gatudih : 

6 $ 2 . 
Plot number to bg acquired in village Gansadih : 

167. 
Plot ner to be acquired in village Jarma : 

568. 
Plot n inhurs to bg a quired in village Parbatpur : 


Ito 115 , 575P ),522( P ),623 ,521, 525 , 9 29 , 1212 ( P ), 1250 / P ), 12 $ 1 ( P ), 1255 ( P ), 1256 to 1260, 1261 
(P ) , 1252 to 1270 , 1271( P ), 1272 , 1274 , 1275 ( P ), 1275( P ), 1277 ( P ) , 1280 ( P ) , 1281 (P ), 1288 (P ), 1292 
(P ) , 1293 to 1295 , 1297 ( P ), 1298 , 1299 (P ), 1300 ( P ), 1301(P ), 1302 to 1382, 1383 (P ) , 1384 (P ) , 138 $ ( P ), 
1388 ( P ) , 1389( P ), 1393 to 1399 , 1400 l ) , 1701 to 1415, 1415 ( P ) , 1417 to 1433 , 1434 (P ) , 1435 ( P ) , 
1435 , 1137 ( P1, 1139 , 1439 ( P ), 1440 ro 1504, 1505( P ), 1501 ( P ), 1507 ( P ), 1509 (P ), 1510 (P ) , 1511 to 
1525 , 1527 ( P ), 1528 , 1529 , 1530 , 1531 (P ), 1532 ( P ) , 1533 ( P ) , 1534 , 1535, 1536 , 1537 ( P ) , 1938 , 1539 
1510 . 551CP ), 1512 ( P ), IS13 ( P ), 1541 / P ), 1515 ( P ), 1516 ( P ), 1547, 1548 , 1549 , 1950 ( P ) , 1551 ( P ) : 
1552 ( P ) , 1553 ( P ), 1554 , 1555 , 1556 , 1557 ( P ), 1558 ( P ) , 1359 1550 (P ), 1561 (P ) , 1562 to 1566 , 1567, 
( P ) 1558 ( P ), 1559CP ), 1570 to 1583, 1584( P ), 1585 (P ) , 1586 to 1591, 1592 ( P ) , 1593 ( P ) , 1594 to 1601, 
1602 ( P ) , 1503( P ), 1501, 1605 , 1505( P ), 1507 ( P ), 1509, 1609, 1610 , I6II ( P ), 1612 ( P ) , 1613 , 1614 / P ) 
1515 to 1359 , 1172 ( P ), 1673 01577, 1573P ), 1679CP ), 1680 ( P ) , 1681, 1682 ( P ) , 1683 to 1724 , 1725 . 
1726 ( P ), 1729 P ), 1732P ), 1731 ( P ), 1732( P ), 1733 to 1743, 1741( P ) , 1745( P ), 2747 (P ) , 1748 ) , 
1749 to 1759 , 1770 P ), 1771 to 1810 , 1841( P ), 1842 10 1873 , 1874 ( P ), 1875 10 2016 , 2017 ( P ), 2018 ( P ) , 
2019 (P ), 2020 (P ), 2021 to 2039, 2010 ( P ) , 2011 , 2042, 2013 , 2044 ( P ), 2045 , 2046 ( P ) , 
2017 tn 2053 , 20 ( P ), 20550P ), 2057 ( P ), 2058 ( P ), 2059 ( P ., 2010 , 2051 ( P ), 2062 ( P ), 2071 ( P ) , 
2072 (P ” , 2973 to 2030 , 2091(P ), 2032 to 2201 , 2202, 2203 (P ) , 2204 to 2208 , 2209 (P ), 2210 (P ), 
2211 ( P ) , 2212( P ) , 2213 to 2226 , 2227 ( P ) , 2228 to 2232 , 2233( P ), 2235 (P ) , 2236 (P ), 2237 to 2255 ) 
2255 ( P ) , 2259P ) , 2250 P ) , 2261( P ), 2262 , 2263 ( P ) , 2264 ( P ), 2265 ( P ) , 2266 ( P ), 2267 (P ), 2269 ( P ) , 
2270 (P1, 2271 to 230 ) , 2301(P ) , 2302 (P ) , 2303 to 2314 , 2315 ( P ), 2322 , 2324 (P ) , 2325, 2326 , 2 32 


Bro. 8(U)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1800 / TAUSA 8, 1880 


9553 


2329, 2331 , 2332 , 2336P , 2338 (P ), 2339 (P ), 2340( P ), 2344 ( P ), 2345 to 2362 . 2363( P ), 2366 (P ), 
2371(P ), 2373 ( P ), 2375 ( P ) , 2377 ( P ), 2378 to 2388, 2389 ( P ), 2391(P ) , 2393 (P ) , 2405 to 2500 
2501 ( P ) , 2502, 2509 ( P ) , 2504 ( P ) , 2507 ( P ) , 2508 ( P ) , 2509, 2510 ( P ), 2511 ( P ), 2514 (P ), 2515 ( P ) , 2516 , 
2517 ( P ), 2518 (P ) , 2521(P ) & 2522 to 2249 . 
Plot number to be acquired in village Batbinor : 

2237( P ) . 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Diborda : 

111 P ), 112( P ), 113 , 114 ( P ), 119( P ), 120 P ), 121(P ), 122¢P , 124 (P ), 125 : P ) 12€ 1C 198 , 135 ( P ), 
141( P ), 154( P ), 620 . P ), 627 \ P ), 630 . P ), 631( P ), 63HP) , 639( P ), 6401P ), 641( P ), 643 ( P ). 6€ P ), 
666 ( P ), 667( P ), 668 ( P ), 669 , 670 ( P ), 671( P ), 6721P ), 673 to 781, 7821P ), 7831P ) . 784 ( P ), 7851P ) , 
798 ( P ), 799( P ), 800 ( P ), 801 to 804, 805( P ), 811 P ), 812 , 813, 814 , 815. P ), 816 to 86, 827( P ) , 
832 ( P ), 836 ( P ), 837 (P ), 838( P ), 1242 ( P ), 1248 (P ), 1249( P ), 1250 ( P ), 1253 ( P ), 1254 (P ), 1255 to 
1264 , 1269 , 1270 ( P ) & 1272 . 
Plot numbers to be acquired in villageMayaban or Pabratant : 

21P ), 3 to 622, 623( P ) , 624 to 627, 628( P ), 625 ( P ), 630 ( P ): 6451P ): ( 74P), ( 47 648 ,649 , 
6501P ) , 651 652 ( P ), 655 P ) , 656 10 665. 666 P . 60 ; P ) ( LP) ( l ) T rillil! , 1375 ( P ) , 
1377 ( P ) , 1378 ( P ), 1379 to 1448 , 1449( P ), 1450 ( P ). 1451, 1452 , 1453 , 1454 ( P ), 1455 ( P ), 1400 ( P ) 
1461, 1462( P ), 1473( P ) , 1474 ( P ), 1475 10 1514 , 1515: P ) . 15101P ) . 1517 . 1918 . 1519 ( P ): 110C 1850 , 
1851(P ), 1852 , 1853( P ), 1854 ( P ), 1855( P ), 1856 ( P ) , 18571P ) , 1859 (P ), 1800 ( P ), 1861( P ). 1862 to 
2589 , 2590 ( P ) , 2593 (P ), 2594 to 2605 , 2600 ( P ) and 2607 ( P ). 
Plotnumbers to be acquired in village Talgaria : 

I to 248 , 249 (P ), 250 (P ) , 251( P ) , 252( P ), 253( P ), 254 , 255( P ) , 2561P ). 2571P ), 259 ( P ) , 261( P ) 
262 ( P ) , 263 to 296 , 297 P ), 298 P ), 299 to 305 , 306 ( P ), 3121P ), 344 ( P ) 406 P 4071P 408, 40 ( P ), 
410 417 . 418( P ) , 419P), 4211P ) . 422 ( P ), 4571P ), 4581P ) , 459. 46CP ACP 467 ( P ) 46 & 10486 
487 ( P ) , 488( P ), 4891P ) , 490 , 4911P ) , 492 to 503 , 504 ( P ), 55 + ( P ) . 5571P . 554/ P sto 561. 562 
563( P ) , 564 ( P ), 565( P ), 566 P ), 567 (P ), 568 ( P ), 56900 625,626 ( P ), 627,628,6291P ) , 630 to 650 ,65I( P ) 
652 , 553, 654 (P ), 655( P ) , 656 ( P ), 661 (P ), 668 ( P ), 670 (P ), 671 ( P ), 672 , 718 ( P ), 719 ( P ), 720 ( P ), 
721( P ), 722 . 722 ( P ). 724 to 733 , 7341 P ), 735 796P) 737 10. 752 , 7 : P 74111T P ca, 
809 ( P ), 810 P ), 811( P ), 812. P ) , 813 ( P ), 815 . P ) , 816 P ) . 817( P ), 818 1085) 8521P 65 : ( P 656( P ), 
858( P ) , 859 to 866 ,8671 P ), 868 to 929, 930P) 9311P ). 922 TOOII , 101 P ) 1014 P10151P ) 1016 
to 1022 , 1023 ( P ), 1025 P ), 1026 P . 102701107 , 110EP) , 110g10 111 1114P 1119 113 , 
1122 , 1123, 1124 , 1125 , 1126 P ), 1127 to 1242 , 1243 ( P ) , 1244. P . 1245 to 1288 . 128S ( P ), 
1290 ( P ) , 1292 ( P ), 1293 ( P ), 1294 ( P ) , 12951P ) , 1306 P ) , 130 * ( P ), 131CP) ; III , 1312 ( P ). J315 ( P ) , 
1316 , 1317 , 1918 , 1319 ( P ) , 1320 to 1509, 15IC ( P ), ISII to 1555 , 15561P ), 155 - ( P ) , 1558 , 
1559 ( P ) , 1566 ( P ), 1561 to 1610 , 1611 ( P ), 1612 to 1642 , 1642 P ), 1644 ( P ), 1645 P ) 165 $ ( P ), 
1660 ( P ), 1661( P ), 1663 P ), 16€ 41P ) itt 5 11 66 , 16 / 7 IT ( 8 . 166 ( P ) 16 , ( ( P 167 11P 10 1078 , 
1679( P ), 1708 P ) , 1709 ( P ), 1712 ( P ) , 1713 ( P ), 17151P ) , 1710 P ), 1772 ( P ) . 1774 10 1782 . 1783 ( P ) , 
1784 ( P ), 1785 , 1786 , 1787( P ), 1788( P ), 1789: P ), 1790 . 1791 ( P ), 1792, 1793 , 1794 . 1795( P ), 
1796 ( P ), 1797 to 1801 , 1802 ( P ), 1803 to 1820 , 1828 . P ), 1824 , 1825 , 1826 , 1827 P ), 1828 , 
1829 ( P ), 1834, 1835, 1840 ( P ) , 18411P ), 1842 ( P ), 1842 : P ) . If 44 P ) , 1845 ard 1846 . 
Flot numbers to be acquired in village Silphor : 

2 to 267, 270 to 2721, 2723 to 3215 , 3217 to 4264, 4266 to 4451, 4453 to 4467 . 
Flot numbers to be acquired in village Fatepur : 

I to 143, 144 (1 ), 145 (P ), 146 , 147 , 148 (P ), 149 (P) , 150 , 151, 152, 153 (P ), 154P), 155 (P ), 156 
(P ), 161( P ) , 1621 ) , 163, 164 ( P ) , 165 (P ) , 170 ( P ) , 176 (P ), 177 (P ), 178 to 238 , 239 (P ), 240 , 241(P ), 242 
( P ) , 243 (P ), 251 (P ) , 252 (P ), 253 (P ), 254 , 255 (P ), 256 to 276 , 277 (P ), 279 (P ), 281(P ) 282 (P ) , 283, 
284 (P ) , 285( P ) , 288 ( P ) , 289 (P ), 290 (P ) , 291 to 914 , 915 (P ), 916 to 957, 958 (1 ), 959 (P ), 960 , 61, 
962 ( P ) , 963 ( P ), 964 ( P ), 965 ( P ), 966 (P ) , 967 (P ), 968 (P ), 969 ( P ), 972 to 977, 978 ( P ), 979 to 982 , 
983 ( P ), 984 , 985 (P ), 986 (P ) , 989 (P ), 990 ( P ), 991, 992, 993( P ) , 994 (P ) , 995 , 996 , 997, 998 (P ), 999 (P ) , 
1000 ( P ), 1001, 1002 ( P ) , 1003 to 1018 , 1019 (P ), 1020 to 1026 , 1027 ( P ), 1029 ( P ) , 1030 ( P ) , 1032 ( P ), 
1033 ( P ), 1034 ( P ), 1035 ( P ) , 1037 ( P ), 1039 ( P ), 1040 ( P ), 1041 to 1064, 1065 ( P ) , 1067 ( P ), 1075CP ), 
1076 to 1093 , 1094 (P ) , 1095P ), 1096 (P ), 1097 (P ), 1098 (P ), 1100 ( P ), 1101 (P ), 1102 to 1118 , 1119 ( P ) , 
1120 ( P ), 1121 (P ), II 22 ( P ), 1134 ( P ) , 1138 (P ), 1139 (P ), 1140 to 1145, 1146 (P ) , 1147 to 1204 , 
1205(P ), 1206 to 1253 , 1254 (P ), 1256 ( P ), 1257 ( P ), 1266 (P ) , 1267( P ), 1283 (P ), 1304CP ), 1305CP ) 
1306 , 1307, 1308 (P ), 1309 (P ), 1327 (® ), 1328(1 ), 1329(P ), 1330P), 1417 (P ), 1418 to 1423, 1424CP ), 
1425 (P ), 1426 ( P ), 1427 (P ), 1428 (P ), 1429 (P ), 1430 (P ), 1431( P ), 1432P ). 1433(P ), 1434 to 1438 , 
1439 (P ), 1440 to 1454 , 1455 (P ), 1456 (P ), 1457 (P ), 1458 (P ), 1459 (P ), 1460 (P ), 1461(P ), 1462 (P ), 
1463( P ), 1464 (P ), 1465 to 1495 , 1496 (P ), 1497 to 1505 , 1506 (P ), 1507 to 1717 1718 (P ), 1721 (P ), 
1722( P ), 1723 to 1735, 1736 (P ), 1737 (P ), 1739 (P ), 1742 (P ), 1743(P ), 1744 (P ), 1745 , 1746 , 1747 (4 ), 
1800 (P ), 1801, 7802, 1803 , 1804 , 1805(P ), 1806 ( P ), 1807 (P ), 1810 (P ), 1811 (P ), 1814 (P ), 1815 (P ), 
1816 (P ), 1817 to 1820 , 1822 and 1823 . 


3554 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA | DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3 , 1688 


(Part 11 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Kondulia : 

I (P ), 2 (P ) , 3 (P ), 4 to 8 , 9P ), 10 , 11, 12 ( P ), 13 , 14 , 15(P ), 22(P ), 23, 24 (P ), 25 (P ), 27( P ), 45( P ), 
46 , 47 ( P ), 48 , 49 (P ), 59(P ), 64P ), 67 ( P ) , 68 (P ), 69(P ), 70 ( P ) , 102 (P ) and 207 (P ) , 
Plot numbers to be acquired in villago Tilatant : 

I to 553, 554 (P ), 555 to 552 , 564 to 539 , 592P ), 591 to 627 , 1628 (P ), 629 (P ), 63 ), 631(P ) 
and 634 to 639 . 
Plotnumbers to be acquired in village Bitajdi : 

I to 65. 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Nawadi: 

I to 310 . 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Karmatant; 

I to 556 , 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Debagram : 

I to 2918 . 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Uparbandha : 

498, 497 (P ), 516 (P ), 669( P ),619 , 67) , 671, 672( P ) and 673 (P ). 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Fugidi: 

1, 2 (P ), 3 (P ), 4 (P ), 32 (P ), 35 to 1 ), 17P ), 41(P ), +2P ), 524P), 525P), 525CP ), 547 (P )," 541 
$ 42 (P ), 555 (P ), 517CP ), 553 (P ), 537P ), 535 (P ), 581, 532P), 533 (P ), 584CP ) and 602(P ). 
Plot numbers to be acquired in village Mahal: 

1361(P ), 1362 (P ), 1363 , 1364 (P ), 1365 to 1370 , 1371(P ), 1374 (P ), 1375 to 1378, 1379 (P ) 
1393 (P ), 1397( P ), 1398 , 1399 , 1499 , 1401(P ), 1402 to 1408 , 1409( P ), 1410 , 1411( P ) , 1412 to 1438 , 
1439 (P ), 1440 (P ), 1441, 1442 (P ) , 1443 (P ) , 1484 ( P ), 1486 (P ), 1487 to 1925, 1526 ( P ), 1527 , 1528CP ) , 
1529 (P ), 1532 (P ), 1626 (P ) , 1627 , 1628, 1629 , 1630 (P ), 1632 ( P ), 1633 to 1638 , 1639 (P ), 1640 to 
1644, 1645 (P ), 1646 (P ) , 1647 , 1648 ( P ), 1660 (P ), 1661 (P ), 1663( P ), 1664CP ), 1665 (P ), 1666 , 
1667, 1668CP ), 1669 , 1670 , 1671, 1672 (P ), 1941 (P ), 1942 (! ), 1948 to 1951, 1952 (P ), 1953 (P ), 1954 , 
1956 , 1957 (P ), 1958 to 1984 , 1985 ( P ), 1986 to 1989 , 1990 (P ), 1992 (P ), 1993 (P ), 1994 (P ) , 2177 (P ), 
2178 , 2179, 6872 (P ), 6890 (P ), 6891 (P ), 6892 , 6893 , 6894 , 6895, 6896P ), 6905CP ), 6906 ( P ), 
6907, 6908 , 6909 (P ), 6910 , 6911 (P ), 6912 , 6913 , 6914 , 6915 ( P ), 6916 (P ), 7005, 7006 , 700 %, 7024 , 
7050 (P ), 7051, 7052 & 7076 . 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

1 – 2 . Line passes through plot number 253 (Damodar Rivor) in village Totongabad , through 
plot numbers 2 , 623 , 629, 628 , 630 , 645 , 646 , 650 , 652 , 655 , 666 , 681, 667, 681, 680, 1857 , 1856 , 
5855 , 1854 , 1853 , 1851 , 1859 , 1860 , 1861 in village Nayaban or Pabratanr, through plot numbers 
TII , 112, 114 , 120 , 119 , 121, 122 , 127, 125 , 154, 141 , 139 , 141, 672 , 671, 670 , 668 , 667, 666 , 665 , 
643 , 641, 640 , 639 , 638 , 631, 630 , 627 , 626 , 838 , 837, 836 , 832 , 827 , 815 , 811, 805, 799 , 800 , 798 , 
1270 , 784, 783, 785, 782, 1248 , 1249 , 1250 , 125 , 1254 , 1242 , in village Diborda, through plot 
numbers 596 and 622 in village Parbatpur and meets at point 2 , 

2 – 3 . Line passes along the part sourern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and meets 
at point 3 . 


3 - 4 . Line passes along the part northern boundary of Road in village Parbatpur and Bathinor 
and meets at point 4 . 

4 - 5. Line passes through plot number 2237 in village Batbinor and meets at point s . 


5 - 6 . Line passes along the part southern boundary of Road in villago Batbinor and along 
the southern boundary of Rond in village Parbatpur and meets at point 6 . 


6 - 7 . Line passes through plot numbers 1385, 1384 , 1383 , 1388 , 1389, 1292 , 1297 1288 , 
1290, 1200 , 1301, 1281, 1280 , 1277 , 1276 , 1273 , 1271, 1242, and passes along the part northern 
boundary of plot number 1249 and 1261, through plot numbers 1261, 1255 , 1251, 1250 , 2503 , 
1250 , 2336 , 2504 , 2501, 2508 , 2507 , 2508 , 2510 , 2508 , 2011, 2508 , 2514 , 2515, 2518 , 2517, 2518 , 
and 2521, in village Parbatpur and meets at point 7 . 


BC. $( 11 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966/ PAUSA $ 1808 . 3555 


2 . 


1 


7 - 8 , Line passes along the part common boundary of villages Parbatpur and Uparbandha, 
part common boundary of villages Upırhandha and De bagram and through plot numbers 499 , 
SI6 , 499 , 668, 673 , 672 , in village Uparbandha and through plot numbers 2 , 4 , 3 , along the southern 
boundary of plur number 35 and through plot numbers 32, 42, 40, 41 , 524 , 525, 526 , 525, 540 , 
542, 366 , 567, 568, 569, 580 , 582, 583 , 582 , 534 , 602 , in village Jugidi, through plot numbers 6872 , 
6891, 6899 , 6896 , 6999, 6911, 6909 , 6905 , 6906 , and 6916 io villago Mahal and mects at point 8 . 


8 - 9 - 10 .- - Lines pass through plot numbers 6916 , 6915 , 2177, 1990 , 1992 , 1993 , 1994 , 1985, 
1952 , 1953 , 1957 , 1712 , 1941 , 1172 , 1655 , 1554 1663, 1651 , 1660 , 1668 , 1645 , 1646 , 1648 , 1639 , 
1632 1630 , 1325 , 152 ) , 1532 , 1523 , 1528 , 1525 1486 , 1484 , 1442 , 1443 , 1440 , 1439 , 1397 , 1393 , 
1401, 1393 , 1409, 1411 , 1409, 1379 , 1374 , 1371 , 1362 , 1361, 1364 , 7050 , in village Mahal through 
plot nud ) 2C8 554, 590 , 631, 630 , 629, 62 ) , in village Tilataor, through plot number 207, in 
villag - Kandulia and p195es along the part common boundary of villages Tilatant and Kendulia 
nd through plot numbers 102, 70 , 64, 68, 67, 64 , 50, 49, 47 , 25, 27 , 45 , 24 , 22 , IS , 12 , 3 , 9 , 3 , 2 , 
and I in village Kendulia passes along the common boundary of villages Tilatans and Amla 
bal, part cm . Donbuillary of villages Amlabad and Fatepur and meet at point 10 . 


IO - II - 12 - 13 - 14 - 15. Lines p189 through plot numbers 1283, 1816 , 1814 , 1815 , 1811 , 1810 , 
1807 , 1805 , 1805, 1800 , 1737 , 1736 , 1721, 1722, 1718 , 1739, 1742 , 1743 , 1744 , 1747 , 1417 , 1065, 
1057, 1075 , 1330 , 1329 , 1328 , 1327 , 1308, 1309 , 1304 , 1305, 1096 , 1097, 1098 , 1095 , 1094 , 1100 , 
1037 , 1010 , 1039 , 1030 , 1029 , 998 , 993 , 994 , 978 , 986 , 985, 983, 969, 968, 967, 966 , 965, 963, 962 , 
1433 , 1424 , 1425 , 1426 , 1427 , 1428 , 1464 , 1429 , 1464 , 1463, 1496 , 1461, 1460 , 1459 , 1457, 1456 , 
1455, 1456 , 1506 , in village Fatepur and through plot numbers 1556 , 1802 , 1959 , 1796 , 853, 852, 
487 , 488 , 816 , 817 , 1823 , 815 , 811 , 807 , 809, 810 , 566 , 567, 568 , 557 , 1829 , 556 , 626 , 629 , 626 , 
671, 670 , 668 , 651 , 661, 656 , 655 , 654 , 735, 734 , 721, 720 , 719 , 718 , 723 , and 753 in village Tal 
garia and meet at point IS . 


15 - 16 . Lins pa $30 along the part common boundary of villages Talgaria and Parbatpur 
and mets at point 16 , 


16 - 17 - 18 - 19 - 20 . Line pass through plot numbers 2071, 2072 , 2081, 2001, 2002, 2059 , 
2058 , 2055 , 2054 2045 , 2045, 2057 , 2040 , 2020 , 2019 , 2017 , 1770 , 1748 , 1747 , 1744 , 1745 , 1744 
1929, 1730 , 1731, 1732, 1725 , 1725, 1726 , 1672 , 1678, 1679 , 1680 , 1614 , 1612 , 1611 , 1682, 1841 
1874, 1551, 1550 , 1551, 1546, 1544 , 1543, 1542, 1545, 1541, 1545 , 1537 , 1933 , 2267, 2266 , 2769 
2254, 2255, 2251 , 2250 , 2259 , and 2255 in village Parbatpur and mect at point 20 . 


20 -21 - 22 -23. Lines D 18 through plot Nɔ9 , 2256 , 2235 , 2235 , 2233 , 2235, 2324 , 2211 , 222L , 
2211 , 2212 , 2203, along part southern boundary of plot number 2201, through plot number 
2203 , 2211 , 2210 , 2209 , 2338 , 2310 , 2338 , 2339, 2344 , 2373 , 2371, 2366 , 2371, 2363 , 2371, 2375 
2377 , 2375 , 2389 , 2391 and 2393 in village Parbatpur and meet at point 23 . 

23 -24 . Lines passes along the part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
mects at point 24 . 


24 - 25 - 26 - 27 . Lines pass through plot numbers 2301, 2302 , 2315 , 2259, 2260,2261, 2263 , 
2257 , 227 , 1527 , 1533 , 1532, 1531 , 2328 , 1505 , 1507 , 1510 , 1434 , 1435 , 1437 and 1416 in village 
Parbatpur and meet at point 27 . 

27 - 23 . Ling 19329 along th : part northern boundary of Railway in village Parbatpur and 
meets at point ( 28 . 


28 - 29 - 30 , Lines pass through plot numbers 1400 , 1416 , 1439 , 1437 , 1435 , 1434 , 1510 , 
1509 , al077 eastern boundary of plotnumber 1504 , through plot numbers 1505 , 2328 , 1551 , 1952 , 
1553 , 1557 , 1558 , 1568 , 1501, 1567 , 1568 , 1569 , 1584 , 1585 , 1992 , 1993, 1602 , 1603, 1606 , 1607, 
1611 , 1612 , 1614 , and then passes along th : part castern side of plot nutzber 2018 (Road ) in vil 
lage Parbatpur and plot number 2593 (Road ) in village Nayaban or Pabratanr and through ploi 
number 2018 in village Parbatpur and plot numbers 2593 , 2590 and 2606 in village Nayaban or 
Pabratant and meet at point 30 . 


2 .- 31-32. Lines pass along the erstern boundary of plot number 2 588 , through plot number 
IS10 , along part southern and castern boundary of plot number 1918 , through plot Dumber IS19 , 
along part western boundary of plot number 2607 , through plot numbers 1516 , ISIS , 2607, 1474 , 
1473 , 1449 , 1450 , 1462, 1450 , 1454 , 1455 , 1378 , 1375 , 1377 , 1375 , in village Nayaban or Pabratant 
and through plot numbers 312 , 306 , 298, 297 , 261, 262 , 259 , 257, 256 , 255 , 253, 252 , 251 , 250, 
249 , 344, 407, 406 , 409, 418 , 419 , 421, 422 , 853, 931, 930 , 856 , 867 , 858 , 1716 , 1310 , DA8C8 along 
the youth : rn and dirt western and part castern boundary of plot number 1311, and through plot 
numbers 1310 , 1303 , 1012 , 1305 , 1012 , TOI4 , IDIO , IO23 , 1025 , 1025 , I114 and 1108 in village 
Talgarla , through plot numbers 144, 145 , 148 , 156 , 149 , 155 , 153 , 154 , 170 , 176 , 177 , 241 , 242 , 
239 , 243, 279 , 281, 282 , 284 , 285, 290 , 289 and 288 in village Fatepur and meet at point 32 . 


3556 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1848 


[PART II 


, 


32 - 33 - 34 - 35 - 36 , Lincg pass through plot nunberg 288 , 282 , Passes along the common 
boundary of plot number 276 , and 278 through plot numbers 277 , 251 , 252 , 255 , 253 , 165, 164, 
I62 , and 161 in village Fatepur and through plot numbers 1121, 1126 , 1289, 1290 , 1840 , 1841, 
1842 , 1843 , 1844 , 1290 , 1292 , 1293 , 1294 , 1295 , 1827 , 1244 , 1243, 1315 , 1312 , 1716 , 1715 , 1716 , 
1713 , 1712 , 1319 , 1510 , 1709 , 1708 , 1679 , 1670 , 1669 , 1664 , 1663 , 1661, 1660 , 1659 , 1643 , 1644 , 
1645 , 1611 , 1791 , 1789, 1788 , 1787 , 1784 , 1783, 1772, 853 , 466 , 467, 460 , 458, 457 , 504 , 559, 557, 
568 , 565, 563, 564 , 563 , and 812 , in village Talgaria and meet at point 36 . 


36 -37. Line passes through plot numbers 812 , 813 , 491, 813 , 489 , 487, 852 , 853 , 1795, 1560 
1557 , and 1556 in village Talgaria , through plot numbers 1455 , 1458, 1462 , 1463, 1439 , 1431 , 
1430 , 1429 , 1432 , 1428 , 1427 , 1433 , 915 , 958 , 959, 962, 963, 964 , 965, 969, 990 , 989 , 993, 1000 , 
1002, 1027 , 1032 , 1033 , 1034 , 1019 , 1035 , IIOI, 1100, 1119 , 1120 , III, 1122 , 1146 , 1134 , 1139 , 
1138 , 1254 , 1256 , 1257 , 1276 , 1267 , and 1205 in village Fatepur and meets at point 37 . 


37 - 38 - 39 , Lines pass along the part common boundary of villages Fatepur and Dungri 
common boundary of villages Dungri and Silphor, common boundary of Petia and Silphor i. c 
along the part right bank of River Damodar ) and then pass along the common boundary of vil 
lages Petia and Jarma (Damodar River ) and meet at point 39 . 


39 - 1 . line passes along the part left bank ofRiver Damodar through ville ges Jama,Gersedih , 
Jațudih , Bardubhi, Majhiladih or Jogidi and Tetengabad and meets at point staitir 8 point I . 


(Mining Rights ) 


SCHEDULE 

Parbatpur Block ( Talgaria ) 
SUB -BLOCK V 


Scrial number 


Village 


Thana 


District 


Thana 
number 


Arca 


Remarke 


I . 


Fatepur 


Chas 


212 


Dhanbad 


Part 


Total area : 43 . 70 acres (approximately ) 

OR 17. 70 Hectares (approximately ) 


Plot numbers to be acquired in village Fatepur: 


1121(P ), 1122 ( P ), 1123 (P ), 1124 , 1125, 1126( P ), 1127 to 1133 , 1134 (P ) , 1135 , 1136 (P ), 1137 ( P ) 
1138 ( P ) , 1205 (P ), 1255 ( P ), 1258 ( P ) , 1260 ( P ) , 1261, 1262 ( P ) , 1263 ( P ), 1264 ( P ), 1265, 1266 ( P ) , 
1267( P ), 1268 to 1282 , 1283 (P ), 1284 to 1300 , 1301 (P ) , 1302 (P ) , 1303 ( P ) , 1304 (P ), 1305 (P ), 1308 ( P ) , 
1309P ), 1310 , 1311, 1314 (P ), 1363(P ), 1364 to 1382, 1383P ), 1384 (P ), and 1385 (P ). 


BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION : 

41-42-43 . Lines pass through plot numbers 1121, 1128, 1305, 1304 , 1309, 1308, 1314 , 1303 
1302 , 1134 , 1301, 1363, 1385 , 1384 , 1383 , and 1283 in village Fatepur ard meet at point 43 , 


43- 44 . Line Pagges along the part common boundary of villages Fatepur and Amlabad , 
and Fatepur and Dungri and meets at point 44 . 


44 -41. Line passes through plot numbers 1205, 1267, 1266 , 1264 , 1263, 1262, 1260 , 1238 , 
1301, 1255 , 1136 , 1137 , 1138 , 1134, 1126 , 1122 , 1123 , 1122, and 1121 in village Fatepur and meet 
at starting point 41 , 


No. C2 -20 (31)/63.) 
RAM SAHAY, Under Secy . 


8EC. $ (L )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA $, 1888 


3557 


11 VL . 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Economio Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 29th November 1966 
S . O . 3903 . - In pursuance of clause ( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 21 of the 
State Bank of India Act, 1955 ( 23 of 1955 ), the Central Government, in consultation 
with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby nominates the following persons to be 
members of the Bombay, Calcutta , Madras , New Delhi, Kanpur and Ahmedabad 
Local Boards of the State Bank of India respectively with effect from the 1st 
December , 1966 : — 

Bombay Local Board 
1 . Shri Zafar Futehally , Juhu Lane , Andheri , Bombay. 
2. Shri K , C . Maltra, Sankey Electrical Stamping Ltd ., Wakefeld House, 

Ballard Estate , Bombay. 
3. Dr. D . T . Lakdawala , Department of Economics, University of Bombay , 
Bombay . 

Calcutta Local Board 
1. Shri D . P . Goenka, 17, Belvedere Road , Alipore, Calcutta. 
2 . Shri Amitava Pal Chaudhury , " Faraday House " , P -17 Mission Row Exten 

sion , Calcutta - 13. 
3. Shri D . P . Chakravarti, 180, Bipin Behart Gangull Street, Calcutta . 

Madras Local Board 
1. Shri P . Brahmayya ; 9 , Dr. C . P . Ramaswamy Iyer Road , Madras. 
2. Shri K . S . Karayalar, Thycaud , Trivandrum , 
3 . Shri N . Ramaratnam , Kaumudi, Warren Road , Madras, 

New Delhi Local Board 
1. Shri S , K . Das, A59 , Kallash Colony, New Delhi- 14 , 
2. Shri Kirpa Narain , 4, Raj Narain Road , Civil Lines , Delhi, 
3 . Shri J . B . Dadachanji, Dadachanji & Co ., 4th Floor (Hear Side). Jeevan 
Vihar, 3, Parliament Street, New Delhi- 1. 

Kanpur Local Board 
1. Shri K , M . Wilcox , British India Corporation Ltd ., Sutherland House , 

Kanpur. 
2 . Shri Devendra Swarup , 13 / 96 , Civil Lines, Kanpur. 
3. Dr. Rajendra Rohatgi, 16 / 29, Civil Lines. Kanpur, 

Ahmedabad Local Board 
1. Shri Rohit C . Mehta , Ram Nivas , Panchvati, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad . 
2. Shri Jadevji K . Modi, Chafrman , District Central Co-operative Bank , 
Bhavnagar , 

[No. F , 8 / 83 / 66 -SB. ] 


· Nero Delhi, the 14th December 1966 


S . O . 3904 – Stalement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of Ladie oop the 9th December 1966 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIAJLITE.IS 


LIABILITIES 


Rs. 


Rs. 


ASSBTS 


Capital Pald op 


. 


. 


. 


9, 07 ,00,000 


Notes 


18 ,87 , 73 ,000 


4 : 50 ,000 


Ropee Coto . 
Small Coin . 


· 
. 


· 
. 


3558 
THE 
GAZETTE 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
DECEMBER 
24 
, 
1966 
/ 
PAUSA 
3 
, 
1888 


Reserpo Fund 


80 , 20,00. 000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


3 ,39 ,000 


National Agricultural Credit 

Term Opalons) Fund 


(Long 
. 


11599, 00, 000 


Bio Purchased sod Discountedim 

(2 ) Laterne) 
(b) External . . . 

(1) Gornament Treasury Bills 
Balance Hald Abroad . 


. 


. 


, 


Nothos Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Food 


327,89, 53,000 
23 , 18 , 18 ,000 


16 , 00 ,00,000 


Nuistel Incontrial Crack (Long term 

Operation ) Fuod 


20 ,03,00, 000 


Luycktments 


108, 26 , 29, 000 


AN 


Lom od Adresses to - 

(i) Con Gorenment 
(0 ) State Goternments @ 


[PARTII, 


79,66, 88,000 


Deposits : 


Bto.3(1)] 


(a) Government 


Central G merament 


. 


(a ) Stue Goveroments 


. 


. 


(6 ) Banks 


Loups and Adnants to i 
(C) Schatuled Commercial Banbat 

18 , 06370 , 000 
( ) State Co-operative Bankett . . . . 17039,84 ,000 

( w ) Others . . . . . . . 2 , 70 , 51 , 000 
103, 39 , 32 ,000 Loans, Adows and Investments from National Agricultural 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 
5 ,51,04, 000 (a ) Loans und Advance to : 
State Governments . . 

. . 29 , 19,25,000 
( ) State Co - operative Banks . . . . 13 ,46, 90 , 000 

( a ) CentralLand Mortgage Banko . . . 
(b) Lorestirent in Central LAnd Mortgage Benk Debeatures 7 ,11,01,000 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
118 ,63,94 , 000 (Stabilisation ) Fund 
477, 03 ,000 Loans and Adruces to State Co - operative Banks 

4, 06 ,51,000 
53 ,70 ,000 
6 , 19 , 000 Loans , Advances and Investments from National Industrial 

Credit (Long Term Operations) Food 
268 , 28, 52 ,000 (a ) Loans and Advance to the Derelopment Bank , 4 ,42 ,46 ,000 

(b ) Lovestment in boode/debeatures issued by the 
37, 31996 ,000 

Development Bani . 
65,48, 39 ,000 Other Assett 

. . . 32 ,60 ,41, 000 
840 ,00 ,09,000 

Rupees 840 , 00 ,09,00 


(1) Scheduled Commercial Banks 
(6 ) Scheduled State Couperative Banks 
(# ) Non -Scheduled State Co- operative Banks 
( 0 ) Other Bankı . . 

. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/BAUSA3,1888 


(c ) Others 


Bills Payable 
Other Libilities . 


. 


. 


. . 
Rupees 


Includes cash and Short -term Securities . 
* *Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fuld mod the National Industrial Credit (Long Term 

Operation ) Fuod. 
Excluding Loans aad Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operation ) Fund , but including temporary Overdrafts to 

State Governments . 
toclude Rs. 2,60 ,00,000 advanced to scheduled commercial Banks against wance bills under section 17( 4Xc ) of the R . B . I. Act . 
HBictading Loo08 and Adrances from the National Age coltural Credit (Long Tam Opentions ) Fund and the Nati Dal Agricultu u Credit (Stabdl 

sition ) Hund. 
ated the 14th day of December , 1966 . 


3559 


An account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of Indo AA , 1934 , for the reek ended the oth on at December 1965 

IKU DPAITIENT 


LIARILITIS 


Re. 


Rs. 


ASITS 


RE 


Rs . 


Gold Coin end Ballion : 


mat 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 
Notes io Circulation . . 

Total Notes inval . 


18 ,87, 73 , 000 
2864,04, 19 ,000 


( a ) Held in India 
☺ ) Held outside Lodia 


115, 89, 25, 000 


2882, 91 , 92 ,000 


18142 ,01,000 


Foreign Securities 

TOTAL . . 
Rupee Coin 
Gorernment of India Rupee Securities 
loterdal Bills of Exchange and other 

commercial paper 


297 .31. 26.000 

85 ,69,07.000 
2499, 91, 59,000 


3360 
I 

HE 
GAZETT 
. 
OF 
INDIA 
: 
DECEMBER 
24 
, 
1966 
/ 
PAUSA 
8 
, 
1888 


Total LIABILITIES 


2882 ,91,92 , 000 


TOTAL ASSETS 


2882, 91,92 ,000 


Dated the 14th day of Decemb.1 , 1966 


P . C . BHATTACHARYYA , 

Govaror . 
[No. F . 3 (3 )- BC /66. ) 


: 
PART 
1 


SHQ . B(1Y 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 . 3561 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 
S . O . 3905 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 7 ) of section 
35 of the State Bank of India . Act, 1955 ( 23 of 1955 ) and in continuation of this 
Department s notification No. F . 4 / 92 /61 - SB dated the 16th December , 1964, the 
Central Government, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India , hereby 
directs that for the purpose of the conduct of the business of the Bank of 
Baghelkhand acquired by the State Bank of India under section 35 of the 
said Act , during the period between the 1st January 1967 and the 31st Decem 
ber , 1968 both days inclusive : 
(1 ) Section 33 of the State Bank of India Act shall apply as it : 
(a ) Clause (1) has been substituted by the following clause namely " ( I) 

the advancing and lending of money and the opening of cash credits 

with or without security ; and 
(b ) In clause (iv ), the words " upon any of the securities specified in sub 

clauseg ( a ) to ( d ) of clause ( 1) ” have been omitted and for the 
words " for or into any of the other investments above specified " 
the words " for and into any other investments" have been substi 

tuted . 
( 2 ) The State Bank shall be exempt from clauses ( a ) and ( c ) of sub - section 
( 1) of section 34 and clause ( a ) and sub - clause ( li ) of clause ( b ) of sub - section 
( 3 ) of that Section , in so far as they preclude the State Bank from : 
(i ) continuing or realising the loans or advances made for a period longer 

than six months or made against the security of immovable proper 

ty ; 
fil) continuing or realising the loans or advances made against any nego 

tiable instrument which does not carry on it the several responsibi 
lities of at least two persons or firms unconnected with each other 
in general partnership or docs not mature within six months of 
the date of the loan or advance, 

[ No . F .4 /29 /66 -SB ] 


New Delhi, the 17th December 1986 
S . O . 3906 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act , 1949 ( 10 of 1949 ) the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India , extends for a period of one year till the 31st De. 
cember 1967, the exemption granted in S . O . 774 dated the 19th March , 1966, to 
the National Bank of Pakistan , Calcutta and the Habib Bank Ltd ., Bombay , from 
the provisions of sub - section ( 2 ) of section 11 of the said Act . 

[No . F . 17( 17) -BC / 66.) 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Under Secy . 


( Department of Revenge and Insurance ) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 
S . O . 3907. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (5 ) of section 5 
of the Emergency Risks (Goods ) Insurance Act, 1962 ( 62 of 1962 ) , the Central Gov 
ernment hereby makes the following scheme further to amend the Emergency Risks 
(Goods ) Insurance Scheme issued with the notifcation of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs ) No. S . O . 3945 , dated 
the 26th December , 1962, namely 

1. (1) This Scheme may be called the Emergency Risks (Goods ) Insurance 
( Fourth Amendment ) Scheme, 1986 . 

(2 ) It shall come into force on the first day of January , 1967 . 

2 . In the Emergency Risks (Goods ) Insurance Scheme, for paragraph 10 , the 
following paragraph shall be substituted , namely : 

“ 10 . Rate of Premium . 


3562 THIE GAZEITE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1968 / FAUSA 3 , 1888 


[Part II 


( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) the premium payable under 
any policy of insurance Issued in respect of the quarter ending on the 31st day of 
March , 1967 shall 
( a ) in the case of a policy in force on the 31st day of December, 1966 , be 

nil ; 
( b ) in any other case , be at the rate of six paise for every hundred rupees 

or any part thereof of the sum insured , subject to a maximum of 

twenty - five rupees . 
(2 ) The Central Government may , in its discretion , at any time during the said 
quarter , revise the premium payable under the policies referred to in sub -para 
graph ( 1 ) , 

( 3 ) Where the amount of any premium payable under sub -paragraph ( 1 ) in 
volves a fraction of a rupee, the premium shall be rounded off to the nearest 
rupce . The premium shall be payable in one lump sum in respect of the entire 
quarter for which the policy is in force : 

Provided that if any goods become insurable or are insured under this Scheme 
after the commencement of the quarter , the premium shall be payable in one lump 
sum , which shall be equivalent to the amount payable in respect of goods Insur 
able during the entire quarter reduced by an amount which bears to the Arst men 
tioned amount the same proportion as the number of completed months in that 
quarter before the goods become insurable or are Insured bears to three , the actual 
amount due in accordance with this proviso if it involves a fraction being rounded 
off to the nearest rupee . 

( 4 ) Where the premium has been revised under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) , the provi 
stons contained in the proviso to sub -paragraph ( 3 ) shall apply for the purpose of 
calculation of the additional amount of premium payable or of the amount of pre 
mlum refundable, as the case may be, as a result of such revision , as if all the 
policies came into force on the date of such revision , 

[ No. F . 10 (5 )- INS.I/ 66 -ERI (I). ] 
S . O . 3908 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 6 ) of section 3 
of the Emergency Risks (Factories ) Insurance Act, 1962 (63 of 1902 ) , the Central 
Government hereby makes the following scheme further to amend the Emergency 
Risks ( Factories ) Insurance Scheme issued with the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Economic Affairs ) No . S .O . 
3946 dated the 26th December , 1962, namely : 

1. (1 ) This Scheme may be called the Emergency Risks ( Factories ) Insurance 
( Fourth Amendment) Scheme, 1986 . 

( 2 ) It shall come into force on the Arst day of January , 1967. 

2 . In the Emergency Risks (Factories) Insurance Scheme, for paragraph 8 , the 
following paragraph shall be substituted , namely S 

“ 8 . Rate of premium . 

( 1 ) Subject to the provisions of sub - paragraph ( 2 ) the premium payable under 
any policy of insurance issued in respect of the quarter ending on the 31st day of 
March , 1967, shall-- 
( a ) In the case of a policy in force on the 31st day of December, 1966. be 

nil ; 
( b ) in any other case, be at the rate of ten paise for every hundred rupees 

or any part thereof of the sum insured , subject to a maximum of 

twenty - five rupees . 
(2 ) The Central Government may , in its discretion at any time during the sald 
quarter , revise the premium payable under the policies referred to in sub -para 
graph ( 1 ) . 

( 3 ) Where the amount of any premium payable under sub -paragraph ( 1 ) In 
volves a fraction of a rupee, the premium shall be rounded off to the nearest rupee. 
The premium shall be payable in one lump sum in respect of the entire quarter for 
which the policy is in force : 

Provided that if any factory becomes Insurable or is insured under this Scheme 
after the commencement of the quarter, the premium shall be equivalent to the 
amount payable in respect of tactories insurable during the entire quarter reduced 
by an amount which bears to the first mentioned amount the same proportion 45 


Sra. $ (L )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


356 


the number of completed months in that quarter before the factory becomes in 
surable or is insured bears to three , the actual amount due in accordance with 
this proviso if it involves a fraction being rounded off to the nearest rupee . 

( 4 ) Where the premium has been revised under sub -paragraph ( 2 ) the provi 
sions contained in the proviso to sub -paragraph ( 3 ) shall apply for the purpose of 
calculation of the additional amount of premium payable or of the amount of 
premium refundable , as the case may be , as a result of such revision , as if all the 
policies came into force on the date of such revision ." 

[No. F . 101 ( 5 ) - INS. I /66-ERI ( II ). ] 

RAJ K . NIGAM , Dy. Secy .. 


( Department of Revenue & Insurance ) 

INSURANCE 

New Delhi, the 17th December 1966 
S . O . 3909. - - Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that by Articles 3 ( 2 ) , 
15 and 16 of Section II (Law concerning foreign insurers ) of Japanese Laws Relat 
ing to Insurance Business 1963, insurance companies incorporated in India are 
required as a condition of carrying on Insurance business in Japan to comply with 
certain special requirements not imposed on Insurers of that country under the 
Insurance Act , 1938 ( 4 of 1938 ) (hereinafter referred to as " the Act" ) : 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 62 of the Act , 
the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following requirements , being 
requirements as similar as may be to the said special requirements , shall be impos 
ed on all insurers constituted , Incorporated or domiciled or having their principal 
place of business in Japan (hereinafter referred to as Japanese insurers) as a 
condition of their carrying on the business of insurance in India , namely : 

The Act shall apply to Japanese insurers as if after Section 62 of the Act the 
following new section were added , namely 
" 02A . Special requirements to be complied with by Japanese insurers. - ( 1 ) 

In the case of Japanese insurers a period of not less than three years 
from the date of their incorporation shall have elapsed before an 
application for registration is made and that they shall have shown 

profits in their latest published accounts . 
( 2 ) Japanese ingurers shall hold in India assets in Rupees equivalent to the 

reserve for unexpired risks in respect of premiums written in India 
less reinsurances of general insurance contracts in the Rupee currency 

entered into by them in India . 
( 3 ) Japanese ingurers shall not enter into contracts of Ingurance in any cur 

rency other than the Rupee without the previous approval of the 
Central Government” . 

[NO. F . 107- IE ( 1 ) / 66 . ) 

A . RAJAGOPALAN , 
Officer on Specal Duty and 

Ex -Oficio Jt. Secy . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIREOT TAXES 

INCOME TAX 

New Delhi, the 12th December 1966 
S . O . 3910 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 122 
of the Income-tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961) and of all other powers enabling it in that 
behalf , the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following further 
amendments in the schedule appended to Its Notification No . 17- Income- tax dated 
14th January , 1966, namely : 
Against Nasik Range , Nasik under columns 2 , the following shall be added : 

18 . A -Ward , Malegoan 
17 . B -Ward, Malegoan 


3564 TILE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1996, PAUSA $, 1888 . 


[PART II 


Explanatory Note 

The amendment has become necessary on account of abolition of E Ward 
Nasik and creation of new wards known as A & B - Wards, Malegoan in the 
Commissioner s charge . 

( This note does not form part of the notification but is intended to be merely 
clarifcatory ) . 

[No, 119 / F . No. 50 / 4 / 66 -ITJ. ] 

P . G . GANDHI, Under Secy . 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE , ALLAHABAD 

Allahabad , the 18th November 1966 
S . O . 3911. - In supersession of Central Excise Allahabad Collectorate Notifica 
tion No. 1 / CE /61 dated 1st March , 1961 and in exercise of the powers conferred 
on me under proviso to Rules 15 and 16 of Central Excise Rules , 1944 , I here 
by notify in the enclosed schedule the areas , in which growers and curers of 
tobacco will be exempted from declaration of their area and yield respectively 
under the above rules provided that the area cultivated and the quantity of tobacco 
cured by a grower / curer does not exceed in the maxima specified in cols. 3 and 
4 of the schedule in respect of the areas notified in Col. 2 thereof. The above 
exemptions under Rules 15 and 16 of Central Excise Rules , 1944, will not apply 
to flue - cured tobacco and tobacco other than flue - cured used in the manufacture 
of cigarettes , smoking mixtures for pipes and cigarettes and biris . 


Schedule showing Revenue jurisdiction of areas in Allahabad Collectorate ex 
empted under Rules 16 & 16 of Central Excise Rules , 1944 , 


Name of Districts or portion thereof 


Exempted Exempted Remarks 
arcas in Qty. in 

Acres. Kgs . 


3 


45 


I . ( a ) Entire Varanasi Distt, exceptparganas Asnigo ,Kondh 

and Cruthır ofGyanour Taheil. 
(6 ) Parganas Asnao ,Kindh and Chauthar ofGyanpur 

Tehsilcxcoptvillages Sherpur ,Goudhrajand Gopiganj 
2 . ( a ) Entire Mirzipur Distt, excopt portion of pargabag 

Kniwar and Kantit of Mirzapur Sadar Tehsil lying 

to the north of rivor Gangos, 
(6 ) Portions of purganas Kasiwar and Kantit ofMirzapur 

Sadar Tohsil lying to the north ofrlverGanges except 
villagesManwa, Jogpatti,Kachbwa and Khamaria . 


IO 


3 . Entire District of Ghazipur Bxcept the : 

1 ) Village Anau ofGhazipur Tohsil , . 
( ii ) Villages D :Waitha & Gahmar of Zamania Tehsil, 
( 117) Villages Jalalabad ,Mindla ,Minihari, Burharpur, 

Bahariabad and Naikdeh of Sridpur Tehsil. 
(iv ) Villages Rajpur, Parasa , Utraon and Chattarpur of 

Pargana Mohammdabad . 


4 . Entire TaunpurDistt , except Jaunpuran Machhlishahar 

tehsils and parganes Guzara of Korakat Tehsil . 


5 . Entire Allahabad Distt. except Sirathu and Manjhanpur 

Tehsils and areas within Corporation limits of Allahabad 
City . 


6 . Patti And Pratapgarh tehsils of Pratapgarh Distt . . 


. 


Dza, 3(19 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966/ PAUSA 3, 1888 


3565 


3 


45 


7 . ( a ) Azamgarh Sadar Tehsil oxcept areas within the Mu 

nicipallimits of Azamgarh city and Parganas Atraulia 
and Koria of Phoolpur tehsil and whole of Lalganj 
tehsil excluding Pargana Deogaon of Azamgarh 


District. 


w 


wwwww 


AAA 


w 


(6 ) Bntire Sagri Tehsil excluding villages : 
(1) Binggaon , Jolaiapur, Gopalpur , Jamilpur Azamat 

garh & Jeaupur of Sagri Pargana & 
(11) V . MaharajganjofGopalpur Pargana. 
(c ) Entire Garha Pargana ofBallia Distt . . 
(d ) Entire Doaba Pargana of Ballia Distt. except village Bairla 
(o ) Bztiro Ballia Pargana of Ballia Distt. except villago 

Chhata . . . . . . . . 
8 . Bntire Gorakhpur District . 
9 . Botire Deoria District. 
10 , Mau , Karwi,Narainiand Banda Tehsils of Banda District 
11. Eatire Baroilly District except Barcilly Municipal arca . 
12 , Botiro Budaun District except Badaun Municipal limits 

and Salaswan town oftehsil Sahaswan , 
13 . Entire Pilibhit District . . 
14 . ( a ) Batire Shahjanpur Toh , oxcept Sahahjanpur city and 

villages Badshahnagar and Nagar Pal. 
(6 ) E itire Tilher Tehsil except Tilhar town . . 

(c) Batire Tehsils Jalalabad and Powayan . . . . 
15 . Entire Hardoi District Except Pargana Gopamar of 

Hardoi Teh ,, Pehani yillage and Shahabad town of 

Shahbad Tch , 
16 . Batire Tehs. Bilari, Amroha, Hasanpur and villago 

PakarwaofMoradabad Tch ,ofMoradabad District. 
17 . Barire Bijnor District. . . 
18. Eatire Rim gur District oxcept Saur Teh . ? . . . 
19 . Entire Almorha District , . . . . . 
20 . Batire Nainital District . 
21 . Entire Pauri Garhwal District . : . . 

. 
22 . Entire TehriGarhawal District, . 
23 . Eatire Saur Tehsil excluding V . Tanda, Sar Bhat Baqqal 

and Mustafabad . 
24 . Entire Thakurdwara and Mordabad Tehsils except V . 

PararWara ofMoradabad Tch , ofMoradabad District 
25. Entire Sultanpur District . . 
26 . Entiretehsils Mohanlalganj and Lucknow except (i) Luck 

now Municipal Limits , ( ii) Amethi( iii) Salempur & 

(iv ) Nagrani 
27 . Entirotehg |1Safipur ofUnnao Distt . except villages Ban 

garmau , Moradabad , Unwan , Udshala , Bhansar 
Muusarah , Tejpur ; Jegtapur,Hasapur, Raghunapur , 

Fatehpur, Hamza and Khals . 
28 . ( a ) Entiro Unnao Tehsilexcept villages Padari, Khurd , 

Padooda , Atwa & Raithuna . 
( ) Entire Hasanganj Teh , exceptvillages Mohaw , Asiwan 

Rasollabad ,Hasanpur and Moraiyan , , , , 
29. Entire Malihabad Tehsiloxccptvillages Mohana, Charo 

wan , Chandanpur, Nagar, Malihabad , Kumrawan , 

Indara , Narosa & Usarana . 
30 . (d ) Butire Gonda Distt . esxceptNawabganj Tehsil. . 

(0 ) Nawabganj Tehsil, 


OOOww 


O 


3566 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


T II 


- 


- 


أ 


درا 


و 


ل 


دیا 


3 


45 


- - - - --- - - - - - - - 
31 . Entire Basti District . . . . . . . 
32 . ( a ) Bahraich and Nanpara Tehsils of Bahraich District .“ 
33. (6) Kaserganj Tehsilof Bahraich Districi. . . 
34 . (a ) Entire tehsil Kheri of Lakhimpur Distt , cxccpt the 

villages (i) Pangi KheriKunwarpur, Motipur, Pahar 
khan Ka Purwa of Pargana Kheri, (ii) Ashokapur , 
Bandha Diha , Joklapurwa, Kalkusan and Pandari 

of Pargana Srinagar and Pallia of Pargana Pallia . 
35 . (6 ) Entire Tehsil Mohamdi of Lakhimpur Disit , exccpt 

the villages (i) Mohamdi of Pargana Mohamdi ( ii) 
Barwar of Pargana Pasgawan ; ( iii) Kurali of Pargana 
Haidrabad (iv ) Mohammadpur of Pargana Magadpur 

and (v ) Babona of Pargana Kasta . 
(c ) Entire Tehsil Nighasan ofLakhimpur District excep 1 

the villates (i) Dhaurara Jokhpurwa, Majharia , 
Abhaipur , Lunianpurwa of Pargana Dhaurara , (ii) 
Bhojhia , Idlispur Isanagar , Bershingpur, Gurwa, 
Kurtay , Rudarpur, Janakpurwa, Hulaspurwa and 
Ganeshpur of Pargana Isanagar( iii) Singhai, Nighasan 
Guraria , Jamahaura , Pandia , and Barotha of 

pargana Bighasa ( iv ) Paliakalan of pargana Palia . 
36 . ( a ) Entire Misrikh Teh , of Sitapur Distt. except the 

villages (i) Tilliani, Aunt, Vazcernagar , Seothan , 
Bhikanpur , Imlia , Saidpur and Meerpur of Pargana 

Misrikh . 
(it) Machhretta of pargana Machhreta . 
(iii) Gangapur of pargana Gondlarnau , 
(iv ) Palia , Palia, Tikra , Chhaba , Begampur and Kusaila 

of Pargana Mixholi. 
( v ) Kundera of Pargina Kurauna. 
( vi) Bansi, Biswan & Faridpur of Pargana, Chaundhara 
(vii ) Aurangabad of Pargang Aurangabad . 

Entire tehsil Sitapur of Şitapur . . 
(1 ) Distt. except the villages :--- 

(0) Khairabad of Pargana Khairabad . 
(it) Sitapur and Bilhera of Pargana Sitapur. 
( iii ) Hargaon , Kcotikulan and Turtipur of Pargana 

Hargaon , 
Entire Sidhauli Tehsil of SitapurDistt . except pargana 

Mohamoodabad and except the villages : 
(1) Dharampur , Bahapur, Dioryer , Runda, Khemaria , 

Parlaria , Ramdiari, Helparı, Gangolia , Itaya , and 

Karuapur of pargere Sadarpur. 
(it) Sahela , Hardiapurwa , Raghevarur , Tewaripur , 

Naherwaland Budheypurwa of pargana South Kund 


3 


45 


ri . 


36 . (d ) Tambaur Pargana lying in the cast of Chguka river in 

Biswan Tehsil except the villages Patrasa, Deoria , 

Zalampur, Seota , Akbarpur , Dhakia , Roha, Datauni . 
37. Entire Distt . Faizabad exceptAjodhya,Municipallimits 

of Tanda ; villages Khajayan Surahurpur, Jalalpur , 

Shahzadpur (Akbarpur .) 
38 . Botire Distt.Rai Bareilly except villages Jais , Nasirabad , 

Saina , Chak , Ahora , Tantapur Bhilampur, Chandai, 
Mira , Swaya Pauney , Maukhanduli , Bhai, and Kila 
RaiBareilly . 


SEQ , 8( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA , 8, 1888 : - 3567 


- - 


= 


- 3 


4 


5 


4 


45 


39 . Enţire District Barabankicxcept: 
( a ) Villages Paisar , Sidhaur, Amdaha , Partapganj, Ma 

hamudahad , Mitai, Bharigaon , Pindha , Abrahimpur, 

Maszili and Shalipur. 
Trilokpur, Kintoor. Tanda .Mohammcilpur, Dlagauli , 

FatehpurMudanpur, Chandoori, Baddosari, Shahpur, 

Lulli , Sharian Kathari . 
Bisain , Balırauli, Tikaitganj, Kurai, Mahmud - Bichun 

pur , Jahangirubud ,Bandjinagar and Nidura , 
40 . Entire Districts Chamoliand Pithauragarh . 
41. Entire Tehsils Tatchpur and Bindkiof District Fatehpur 


- 


10 
3 


As 


45 
45 


- 


[No. 5 / CE / 1068 ] 
V . PARTHASARATHY, 

Collector. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 17th December 1966 
S . O . 3912 . - The Central Government, having considered in consultation with 
the Forward Markets Commission , the application for renewal of recognition made 
under Section 5 of the Forward Contracts (Regulation ) Act , 1952 (74 of 1952 ) by 
the Pepper and Ginger Merchants Association Limited , Bombay, and being satis 
Aed that it would be in the interest of the trade and also in the public interest so 
to do, hereby grants , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the said 
Act, recognition to the said Association for a further period of 3 years ending the 
18th January , 1970 in respect of forward contracts in pepper within the limits of 
Greater Bombay as defined in the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 ( Bombay 
Act 1 of 1904 ), as in force in the State of Maharashtra. 

The recognition hereby granted is subject to the condition that the said Asso 
ciation shall comply with such directions as may from time to time be given by 
the Forward Markets Commission . 

[No. 34 ( 14 )- Com , Genl. (FMC) / 66. ] 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1966 
8 . 0 . 3913 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (b ) of section 2 
of the Foreign Awards (Recognition and Enforcement) Act, 1981 (45 of 1981) , the 
Central Government hçreby declares tho Federal Republic of Germany, to be a 
territory to which the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign 
Arbitral Awards, set forth in the Schedule to that Act applies. 

[ No. 11 (2 )-Com (Genl) /64.] 
M . L . GUPTA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 19th December 1966 
S . O . 3914 .- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 4 of the Coir Industry 
Act, 1953 ( 45 of 1953 ) , read with sub - rule ( 1 ) of Rule 6 of the Coir Industry 
Rules, 1954 , as amended by the Coir Industry (Amendment) Rules , 1963, and with 
reference to this Ministry s Notification S . O . 2672 dated the 31st August, 1966 , the 
Central Government hereby appoints the following persons as members of the 


2568 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3 , 1888 


[PART II 


T. V . Thomas, president, Coir Fachozhikode 
. 


Coir Board under the category " (b ) Persons engaged in the production of husks,. 
coir and cofr yarn and in the manufacture of coir products " for the period ending 
with the 31st day of August, 1969 : 

1 . Shri T . V . Thomas, Chairman , Municipal Council , Alleppey . 
2. Sri C . G . Sadasivan , President, Coir Factory Workers Union , Shertallal. 
3 . Shri M . Kanaran, Coir Workers Union Kozhikode, 

[No , 21 ( 1) / 16 - TEX . ( E ) 1 


CORRIGENDUM - 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1968 
S . O . 3915 . — In the Government of India , Ministry of Commerce Notification 
No . S . O . 2643 dated the 18th August , 1966 , published in Part II, Section 3 , sub 
section ( 1 ) of the Gazette of India dated the 3rd September , 1968 , the ful stop 
occuring after the words " or Deputy Textile Commissioner appointed by the Cen 
tral Government" shall be deleted and the word " and " substituted in its place . 

2. This Ministry s corrigendum of even number dated the 7th November , 1966 
is hereby cancelled . 


[No. 1 ( 4 ) Tex , ( I) / 66 . ] 
A . G . V . SUBRAHMANIAM , Under Secy . 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1986 


S . O . 3916 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No. S . O . 1029, 
dated the 28th March , 1966 , I hereby direct that the Producer , specified in column i of the Tablo 
below of the goods as specified in column 2 thereagainst shall go11 3 II tonnes of the goods in 
his possession to the persone specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the sald table 
for purposes ofmanufacture for mort, at the price indicated thercagainst in column 4 gubject 
to the conditions enumerated in column 5 of the said table , 


TABLE 


Name of the firm 
(Producer) 

firm 


Specification 
Specification 

of goods 


Name of the 

exporter 


Price 


Conditions 


3 


The Secretary , Joint G , I , Shcets M /s . Prick India At normal con - Supplies to be 
Plant Committee , - 

Ltd . , 13 /3 , Main trolled price made tº the 
18 , Rabindra Sara - 10 X 4 - 18 Mathura Road , at the time of cxporters on 
ni, Calcutta . Gauge - 3 . 8 Faridabad 

delivery . 

an immediato 
tonnes, (Punjab ). 

basis either at 
G . I, Sheets 

Delhi 

Faridabad , 
8 x3 - 16 Gauge 
- 0 . 3 tonnes 
Total : — 3 . 11 tonnes . 


G 


[No. 31( 11)/66 - EP /Engg .] 


Szc . $ (11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 9, 2H88 , 2560 


TP 


S . O . 3917 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No. S . O , 1029 , dated 
the 28th March 1966 , 1 hereby direct that the Producer , specified in column 1 ofthe Table below 
of the goods as specified in column 2 there against shall sell 39 365 tonnes of the goods in his 
possession to the persons specified in the corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for 
purposes ofminufacture for export, at the price indicated thercagainst in column 4 subject to 
the conditions enumerated in column 5 of the said table , 


TABLE 


Name of the 

exporter 


Price 


Name of the Specification 
firm (producer) of goods 


Conditions 


3 


M /s. Hindustan C . R . C . A . 

Steel Ltd ., Sheets. 
Rourkela . 


M /s . Ahmedabad Eagle Normal 
Engineering Enterprise J. P . C . 
Pvt . Ltd . , 410 Naroda Price . 
Railway Crossing , 
Naroda , Ahmedabad 


On & apriority basis 
through H . S . L . 
Sales Branch at 
Rourkela . 


[No . 31/ 15 /66 -EP ( Engg). ] 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 


S . O . 3918 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No . 
S . O . 1029 , dated the 28th March , 1968, I hereby direct that the Producer , specified 
in Column I of the Table below of the goods as specified in Column 2 thereagainst 
shall sell 227 Kgms. of the goods in his possession to the persone specifled in the 
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for purposes of manufacture for 
export , at the price indicated thereagainst in column 4 subject to the conditions 
enumerated in column 5 of the said table . 


TABLE 


Price 


Name of the 
firm (Producer ) 


Name of the 
exporter 


Conditions 


Specfication 

of goods * 


T 


M /s . Chase Bright 
Steel Ltd ., 
Vaswan Mansions , 
Dinshaw Vache 
Road , Bombay. 


Bright Steel 
Rods 
EN 3 B - 2" diam . 


Bharat Diamond 
Inr ustries 
16 / A -Khrt 
wad , 12th Lane, 
Bombay - 4 BR 


Normal 

Selling 
Price 
as on the 
dates of 
delivery . 


Supplies 
to be made 
immcdiately . 


[No. 31 ( 8 ) / 86 - EP ( Engg .) .] 


S . O . 3919 . - In exercise of the powers conferred on me by Notification No 
S .O . 1029, dated the 28th March , 1966 . I hereby direct that the Producer , specified 
in Column I of the Table below of the goods as specified in Column 2 thereagainst 
shall sell 38 . 5 tonnes of the goods in his possession to the persons specified in the 
corresponding entry in column 3 of the said table for purposes of manufacture for 
export, at the price indicated thereagainst in column 4 subject to the conditions 
enumerated in column 6 of the said table . 


3570 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1989 


(PART II 


- 


- - 


TABLC 


Name of the 
firm (Producer) 


Specification 
of goods 


Name of the 

Çxporter. 


Conditions 


I 


Indian Aluminium 
Co., Ltd ., 
Calcutta . 


Aluminiui 
Wire Rods 
of electro 

lytic 
quality . 


Calcutta Wire 
Works, 6 , Til 
Jala Roul, 
Culcutta - 46 . 


Normal 
selling 
price at 
the time 
of delivtry . 


Supplies 
should bc 
made imme 
diately as the 
delivery 
of the cxport 
order has to be 
completed by 
the end of 
December 1966 . 


[ No. 31 (9 ) / 66 -EP (Engg.X ] 

By Order etc . 

A . C . BANERJEE , Director 
Essential Commodities (Regulation of Production and Distri 
bulion for Purposes of Export) Order , 1966 . 


- - - 


- 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM & CHEMICALS 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1966 
S . O . 3920.-_ Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals $ . O . No. 3176 dated the 14th October, 1968 
under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines ; 

And whereas the competent authority has, under sub - section (i ) of section 6 
of the said Act, submitted report to the Government; 

And , whereas , the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule ap 
pended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( i) of sec 
tion 6 of the said Act , the Central Government hereby declares that the right 
of user in the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instcad of vesting in the Central Government 
vest on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbranccs. 


SCHEDULE 
District : Broach 


State : Gujarat 


Taluka : Ankleshwar 

Guntha Sq. Yds. 


Village 


Survey No. 


Acre 


Piludra 
Adara 


238 


28 
12 


70 


II2 
34 


[No. 31 / 38 /63-ONG -Vol. 7 . ] 
S . O . 3921. — Whereas by a notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals S . O . NO. 3175 dated the 14th October, 1966 
under sub -section ( 1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines (Acquisition of 
Right of User in Land ) Act, 1962 (50 of 1962 ) , the Central Government declared 
its intention to acquire the right of user in the lands specified in the Schedule 
appended to that notification for the purpose of laying pipelines; 


SRO, 8 ( id )) THĘ GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 3571 
= - - 

- - - - - - - - - 
And whereas the coinpetent authority has , under sub - section ( i) of Section 6 
of the said Act , submitted report to the Government; 

And , whereas, the Central Government has, after considering the said report, 
decided to acquire the right of user in the lands spccified in the Schedule ap 
pended to this notification ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of sec 
tion of the said Act, the Central Government hereby declares that the right of 
user in the said lands specified in the Schedule appended to this notification is 
hereby acquired for laying the pipelines and in exercise of the powers conferred 
by sub - section ( 4 ) of that section , the Central Government directs that the right 
of user in the said lands, shall instead of vesting in the Central Government, 
vest on the date of the publication of this declaration in the Oil and Nalural Gas 
Conmission free from all encumbrances. 

SCHEDULE 
Statc : Gujarat District : Kaira 

Taluka : Anand 
Village 

Survey No. 

Acre Guntha Sq. Yds. 


Anand 


104 


1144 P 
1145 
1174 
1253 
1300 / 1 
1298 / P 
1295 
1177 


I147 


849 


849 


OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 


Hw8oHHOEMANAetowerWraw 


Vasad 


II2 


853 
73411 
814 / 1 
• 15 / 1 
932 

6771P 
. 617 

273/ 3 

601/ 2 
. 149 

671 
671 

153 
. 2332 / 2 


Vado” . 


. 


ONUN 


Adas” . 


. 


. 


93 


II2 


O 


IIO 


Bakroi 
Jol . 


. 


. 


54 


100 


[ No. 31 / 41 / 14 -Col. I.] 

C . P . JACOB , Under Secy . 
New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 
S .O . 3922. - - Whereas Bombay Port Trust should be enabled , for the purpose of 
preparing " MASTER PLAN " for the dovelopment of Port of Bombay, now under 
preparation by their Consulting Engineers , M / s . Bertlin and Partners , to furnish 
l formation to the latter relating to detailed statistics of the POL Tramic handled 
at the Port of Bombay during 1965 - 66 . 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - rule (4 ) of revised Rule 52 of the Defence of 
India Rules 1962, read with sub - clause (vi) of clause (b ) of that sub - clause , the 
Central Government horęby authorises Bombay Port Trust to furnish information 
relating to detailed statistics of the POL Traffic handled at the Port of Bombay 
during 1965 - 66 , notwithstanding the provisions of Government of India Order No 
GSR 136 dated the 21st January , 1964 : 

Provided that the said concern undertake in writing that they shall not publish 
or reveal or cause or allow to be published or revealed such information or extracts 
theretrom except with the previous permission in writing of the Central 
Government. 

[No. F . 31 ( 103 ) / 66 - Tech . ] 
S . SUNDARARAJAN , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY 
(Indian Standards Institutions) 

New Delhi, the 9th December 1966 
S . O . 3923 - Io pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955, as subse 

quently amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that eleven licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
annexed have been granted authorising the licencees to use the Standard Mark . 


TR 


SCHEDULE 


SI. 


No. 


Licence No. 
(CM /L ) 

and Date 


Period of Validity 
From 

To 


Name and Address of 

the Licensee 


Article /Process Covered 

by the Licence 


Relevant Indian Standard 


3 . 


6 


3572THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA3,1888 


I CM / L - 1353 

23- 11 - 1966 


1- 1 -67 


2 CM /L - 1354 

30 . 11- 1966 


I - 12 - 66 


3 CM /L - 1355 

30 - 11 - 1966 


I-12-66 


31- 12 -67 M / s. Kotes ( India ) Ltd ., Pan Carbon paper for type -writers, IS ; 1551 - 1959 Specification 
chpakhadi Village , Huta - type III . 

for carbon paper for type 
tma Maruti Road , Thana 

Writers . 
(West) having their office 
at Plot No. 10 , Off Haines 

Road , Worli , Bombay - 18 . 
30 - 11 - 67 M / s. Bengal Sports Goods In - Footballs , yolleyballs , basket - IS ; 417 - 1965 Specification for 

dustries Co -operative Society balls and water polo balls . footballs, volleyballs, basket 
Ltd ., 45 B . T . Road , Ba 

balls and water polo balls 
ranagore , Calcutta - 50 . 

( revised ). 
30 - 11-67 Ms. Bengal Sports Goods Shuttle cocks. 

IS : 415 - 1963 Specification for 
Industries Co -operative 

shuttlecocks (revised ) . 
Society Ltd ., 45 B . T . 
Road , Baranagore , Cal 

cutta - 50 . 
31- 12-67 M /s. Travancore Chemical BHC Water dispersible powder IS : 562 - 1962 Specification for 
Mfg . Co . Ltd ., Elour Udyog - concentrates . 

BHC Water dispersible pow 
mandal, P . O . , Via Alvaye , 

der concentrates . 
Kerala State having their 
Regd . office at Kalam 
massery , Alwaye , Kerala 
Stats . 


S 


4 CM / L - 1356 

30 - [ 1 - 1966 


1- 1 -67 


[PARTII 


5 CM - 1357 

30 - 11 - 1966 


16 - 12 -66 


Sec.3(11)] 


6 CM L - 1358 

30 - 1 [ - 1966 


I- 12 - 66 


15 - 12 -67 M / s. P . T . C . Sanghvi Con Rolled brass sheets and strips IS : 410 - 1959 Specification for 
110 , Shivajinagar, Poona -5 . grade Rs. 63. 

rolled brass plate, sheet, 

strip and foil (revised ). 
30 -11-67 M /s. Shamsher Sterling Cable Weather proof polythene jo - IS : 3035 (Part I ) - 1965 Spe 

Corpo. Ltd ., Plot No. 7 , sulated , taped , braided and cification for thermoplastic in 
S . S , I. , Kirol Ghatkopar , compounded cable with alu - sulated Weather proof cables , 
Bombay -77 having their Regd . minium conductors of the polythede insulated , taped 
Office at Vaswani Mansions, following types : 

braided and compounded . 
Dinsha Vacha Road , Bom 
bay - I . 

Single core , 250 /440 volts 

grade ; 
(i ) Twin core , 250 / 440 

volts grade ; and 
( Single core , 650 / 1, 100 

volts grade. 


7 CM / L - 1359 

30 - 11 - 1966 


1 - 12 - 56 


30 - 11-67 


Ms. Skytone Electricals (In - Weatherproof polythene insu - IS : 3035 (Part II) — 1965 
dia ), 43, Industrial Area , lated , taped , braided and Specification for thermo 
Faridabad having their office compounded cables with alu - plastic insulated Weather 
at 2655 Sadar Thana Road , minium conductors of the proof cables , polythene in 
Delhi-6 . following types : 

sulated , taped , braided and 

compounded . 
Single core , 250 / 440 volts 

grade ; 
(0 ) Single core , 650 / 1 100 

volts grade ; and 
(6 ) Twin core , 250 / 440 volts 
grade. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA8,1888 


8 


CM / L - 1360 

30 - 11 - 1966 


1 - 12 -66 


30 - 11-67 M /s . Ankar Industries , Jes- BHC dusting powders 

ssore Road , P . O . Madh 
yamgram , District 24 Par 
ganas . 


. IS : 561- 1962 Specification for 

BHC dusting powders . 


9 


9 


M / L - 1361 
30 - 11 - 66 


I- 12 - 66 


-12 96 30-11:87 Makond ei oleh menina, 


IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for: 

DDT dusting powders . 


30 - 11 -67 M /s . Ankar Industries, Jessore DDT dusting powders 

Road , P . O . Madhyamgram , 

Distt. 24 Parganas . 
30- 11 -67 M / s. Ankar Industries , Jessore DDT Water dispersible powder 

Road , P . O . Madhyamgram concentrates . 
Distt . 24 Parganas . 


10 CM / I. - 1362 

30- 11- 1966 


1 - 12 - 66 


IS : 565 - 1961 Specification for 

DDT Water dispersible 
powder concentrates. 


3573 


II CL: 1363 . 

30 - 11 - 1966 


I - 12 -66 


30 - 11 - 67 


The Bangalore White Lead Basic abonate of lead (white IS : 34 - 1950 Specification for 
Syndicate Ltd ., G . T . Road , lead ) for paints ). 

basic carbonate of lead (white 
Konnagar, Distt. Hooghly 

lead ) for paints . 
(West Bengal) having their 
office at Gillanders House , 
Netaji Subhas Road , Cal 
cutta - I . 


INO . MD /33: 16 . ] 


574THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA3,1888 


- 


- 


- 


[ParsII 


New Delhi, the 14th December 1966 
S . O . 3924 . - 12 punuance ofsub - regulation ( 1 ) of regulation 8 of the Lodian Standards Institution ( Certification Marks) Regulations: 14 . 5 
as subsequently amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that ninety- one licences, particulars of which are given in the Schedule 
hereto anexed , have been rene ved . 

The Schedule 


SEC.3(il)] 


No. 


License No . 
and Date 


mm 


( 2 ) 


Period of Validity Name and address of Article /Process covered by Relevant Indian Standard 
the Licensee 

the Li ence 
From To 
( 5 ) 

( 7 ) 
I - 12 - 66 30 - 11-67 M /s Devidayal Metal Indus- Wrought aluminium and alumi- IS : 21 - 1959 Specification fo 

tries , Tulsiram Gupta Mills nium alloy sheets , strips and wought aluminium and alu 
Estate , Darukhana , Bombay - circles. 

minium alloys for utensils 
10 . 

( second Tenison ). 


. 


, 


I ÇM / L - 21 

3 - 12 - 1956 


2 CM / L - 36 

4 - II - 1957 


16 - 1 [- 66 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA),1888 


3 


. 


. 


16 - 11 - 66 


15 -11- 67 The National Insulated Hard -drawn stranderd aluminium IS : 398- 1961 Specification for 

Cable Co. of India Ltd . , and steel- cored aluminium ba: d - drawn stranded alumi 
Shamnagar ( 24 Parganas , conductors for overhead power nium and steel - cored alu 
W . Bengal) having their transmission purposes . 

minium conductois for over 
Regd . Office at Nicco House , 

head power transmission pur 
Hare Street , Calcutta - I , 

poseste cisell. 
15 - 11 -67 The National Insulated Cable Rubber- insulated cables and ( i) IS : 434 (Part 1) - 1964 Speci 

Co . of India Ltd . , Shamnagar flexible cords of all types and fication for rubber 
(24 Parganas , V . Bengal ) sizes specified in IS : 434 ins: iated catles with copper 
having their Regd . Office (Part 1 ) 1964 and IS : 434 conductors (73875 2 . 
atNicco House,Hare Street , (Part II ) 1964. 
Calcutta - 1 . 

( ii) IS : 434 (Part II) — 1964 Specifi 

cation for rubber insulated 
cables with aluminiuin con 

ductors ( resised ), 
15 - 11-67 The National Insulated Cable Cotton covered round copper IS : 450- 1964 Specification for 
Co . of India Ltd , Shamnagar conductors 

cotton - covered round copper 
( 24 Parganas, W . Bengal ) 

conductors (revisc. ) . 
having their Regd , Office at 
Nicco House , Hare Street , 

Calcutta - I, 
15 - 11 -67 M /s . Rashtriya Metal Industries Wrought aluminium and IS :21 - 1959 Specification for 

Ltd , Kurla Road , Andheri aluminium alloy utensils wrought aluminium alloys for 
(East ) Bombay - 41. 

utensils (second revision ). 


CM / L - 37 
1 - 11 - 1957 


4 CM / L - 33 

4 - II - 1957 


. 


. 


16 - II -66 


5 


CM /L - 39 
4 - II - 1957 


. 


- 


16 - 11 -66 


3575 


( 5 ) 


6 CM / L - 0 

4 - 11- 1957 


. 


. 


16 - 11- 66 


7 CML - 66 

7 - 2 - 1958 


, 


, 


I - 12- 66 


15 - 11- 67 M /s, Rashtriya Metal la distries Wrought aluminium and alumi- IS : 21 - 1959 Specification for 

Ltd , Kurla Road , Andheri nium alloy sheets , strips and Wrought aluminium and 
(East), Bombay -41. circles . 

aluminium alloys for utensils 

(second reorsion ) 
30 - 11 - 67 Ms. Woodcrafts (Assam ) Tea - chest plywood panels. IS : 10 -- 1953 Specification for 
Prop Jayshree Tea & Indus 

ply wood tea - chests (revised ). 
tries Ltd . , P . O . Mariani , 

Distt . Sibsagar. 
15 - 11- 67 M /s. Sylvan Plywood Mills , Tea - chest plywood panels. IS : 10 — 1953 Specification for ! 
Kottayam ( Kerala ). 

Plywood tea - chests (revised ). 
15- 11 - 67 The Assam Veneet & Saw Mills Tea -chest plywood panels . IS : 10- 1953 Specification for 
Limited , 9 Clive Row , Cal 

plywood tea - chests (revised ) 
cutta - I 


T 


- 


16- 11 -66 


8 CM / L - 105 . 

31 - 10 - 1958 
9 CM /L - 107 . 

4 - 11- 1958 


. 


16 - 11-66 


3576THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA%,1888 


IO 


CM /L - 109 , 
4 - 11 - 1958 


16 - 11- 66 


15 - 11 -67 M / s . Saviar Paint & Varnish ( 1) Oi paste for paints , zinc ( 1 ` IS : 9 & 1950 Specification 
Works, Vihar Lake Road , oxide, 

for oil paste for pajnts zinc 
Saki Naka , Kula , Bombay - 37 . 

oxide, 
( 2 ) Oil paste , for paints, zinc (2 ) IS 99 - 1950 Specification 
oxide , reduced, 

for oil paste for paints , zinc 

oxide, reduced . 
(3 ) Oil paste for paints to (3 ) IS : 92 — 1950 200 IS : 93 – 
Indian Standard , 

1950 Specification for oil 
(4 ) Colours , 

& past 
(4 ) fot paints to Indian 

Standard colours. 
30 - 11- 67 M /s. Puri hotham Goculdas Tea - chest Plywood panels . IS : 10 – 1953 Specification for 
Plywood Co. , Pappinisseri 

plywood tea - chests (reoised ) 
( Kerala State ). 


11 CM / L - 123 . 

21 - 5 - 1959 


. 


1- 12 -66 


12 CM / L -150 

15 - 10 - 1958 


. 


, 


1- 11-66 31- 10 -67 The Packing Materials Corpo - Waterproof packing paper. IS : 1398 - 1960 Specification 
ration , Khed Gally , Off 

for packing paper, waterproof 
Gokhale Road (South ), Bom 

bitumen laninated . 
bay - 28 . 
1 - 12 -66 30 - 11 -67 M /s. Hindustan Tin Works 18 -litre square tins . IS : 916 – 1958 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd . , G . T . Roud , 

18 - litre square tins, 
Ghaziabad , 


13 CM / L - 243 . 

23- 11 - 1960 


[PARTII 


It CM / L - 302 

25- 5 - 1961 


. 


1- 12 -66 


Tea - chest plywood panels 


IS : 10 - 1953 Specification for 

plywood tea - chest (recised ) 


30 - 11 -67 M s. National Plywood Indus- 

tries , 6 , Gorapada Sarker 

Lane, Calcutta - 4 . 
15- 11 -67 M / s. Bharat Wood Works 

Private Ltd ., P . O . Dibrugarh , 
Assam . , 


X.3(id)) 


I5 CM L -351 

31- 10 - 1961 


16 - 11 - 66 


Tea - chest plywood panels 


IS : 10 - 1953 Specification for 
plywood toa - chests (Tevised ) 


16 CM /L - 352 

31 - 10 - 1961 


. 


- 10-11.00 13.30 sore 


16- 11-66 


serait puc insulated ca interneto 


15 -11-67 M /s. Devidayal Cable Industries Type 

Voltage 
Private Ltd ., Gupta Mills, 

Grade Conductor 
Estate , Darukhana , Reay Road , PVC insulated cables 
Bombay - Io . 

(i) Single Core ) 250 /440 Copper (i) IS : 694 (Part I) - 1964 Specifi 

(unsheathed ) & 650 / aluminium cation for PVC insulated 
( ii) Single Core 1100V 

cables ( for Foltage up to 
PVC sheathed ) ) 

1100V ) with copper conductors 

( revised ) . 
(i ) IS : 694 (Part 11) 1964 Speci 

fication for PVC insulated 
cables (for voltages up to 
1100V ) with aluminium con 
ductors (revised ). 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1986/PAUSA3,1888 


17 CM / L - 358 

20 - 11 - 1961 


I - 12 - 66 


30 - 11- 67 


M / s. Indian Traders Pvt. Ltd ., Type 

Voltage 
Industrial Area, Najafgarh 

Grade Conductor 
Road ,New Delhi - 15 . 

VIR cables for fixed wiring 
TRS ( Tough rubber 

(i) IS : 434 (Part 1)- 1964 
Sheathed ) 250 / 440 Copper Specification for rubber -insu 

volts ſ or l ated cables with copper con 

aluminium ductors (revised ) 
( ii) Braided 250 / 440 

( ii ) IS :434 (Part ID - - 1964 
and com - & 650 / 1100 

Specification for rubber- insu 
pounded volts 

lated cables with aluminium 
( ü ) Weather - 250 / 440 

conductors (revised ) . 
proof. 650 / 1100 

Yolts 


1 - 12 -66 


18 CM /L -359 

20 - 11- 1961 


30 - 11-67 M / s . Burma- Shell Oil Storage Dieldrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1054 – 1957 Specification 
& Distributing Co. of India Ltd ., 

for dieldrin emulsifiable con 
Barnah - Sheil House , Ballard 

centrates . 
Estate , Bombay- I . 


3577 


( 5) 


(7 ) 


(1) (2) 
19 , CM /L - 423 

19- 6- 1962 


1-1266 3011-67 


I - 12 - 66 


20. CM / L - 463 

II - 10 - 1962 


I - 12 - 66 


21 . CML- 464 

24 - 10 - 1962 


14 - 11- 56 


22 . CM / L - 467 

30 - 10 - 1962 


14 - 11 - 66 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA3,1888 


23 . CML- 492 

26 - 12 - 1962 


30 - 11-67 The Vikon Electrical Works Semi-enclosed electric fuscs , IS : 2086 - 1963 Specification for 

Private ) Limited , G . T . Road , 15 amp 250 volts , Fith H . C . Carriers and bases in rewirable 
Goraya (Panjab ) . 

and MEM type fuse bases and type electric fuses up to 650 volts ! 
carriers . 

(revised ). 
30 - 11 -67 M /s, Basant Pran & Company, Metal clad switches , 15 amp, 250 IS : 1567- 1950 Spocification for : 

9 , Old Court House Street , Cal volts , with HC type fuse base metal clad switches (current 
cutta , and carrier . 

rating not exceeding 100 

amperes ) , 
15 - 11 -67 M / s. Geolodustries and Insec - BHC Water dispersible powder IS : 562 - 1962 Specification for lj 
ticides ( India ) Pvt . Ltd ., concentrates. 

BHC water dispersible powderii 
Field No . 82 / 83 (a ) Sathadkadu , 

concentrates (second redision ). 
Kaladipet, Madras - 19 . 
15 - 11 -67 M / s . Shalimar Tar Products Bitumen felts for Waterproofing IS : 1322 - 1959 Specification for 

( 1935) Limited , 26 , Lake Road , and damp- proofing typo 3 bitumen felts for Waterproofiing 
Bhandup , Bombay - 78 having grade 1, 

and damp -proofing. 
their ofice at 6 Lyons Range , 

Calcuita . 
30 -11-67 M /s . Alma Electrical Corpn , Pvt. Metal clad switches , 15 amp 250 IS : 1567- 1969 Specification for 

Ltd ., Garia Mathurapur Road yolts , with MEM type fuse metal clad switches (current 
Goraia , 24 Parganas having base and carrier . 

rating not exceeding 100 
their office at 2 India Exchange 

amperes . 
Place (2nd Floor ), Calcutta - I . 
30- 11-67 M /s.Associated Tube Wells Flushing cisterns, high level . IS : 774 - 1964 Specification for 
( India ) Private Ltd . , Modina 

flushing cisterns for Water 
gar having their office at 12 , 

closets and urinals (valveless 
Scindia House , New Delhi. 

siphonic type) (second resiston ). 
15 - 11 -67 M /s. P . V . C . Wires & Cables Pvt. Type Voltage Conductor ( IS : 694 (Part- I) 1964 Specifi 
Ltd . , I, Ishan Ghosh Road , 

Grado 

cation for PVC insulated cables 
Calcutta - 3 . PVC Insulated Cables . 

( for voltage up to 1100Y ) with 
1 Single 250 /660 & Copper or copper conductors (revised ). 
core (un - 450 /1100 aluminium 
sheathed ) volts 
(H ) Flat 250 / 170 Copper ( 4 ) IS : 694 (Part II) — 1964 
twin with yolts . only . Specification for PVCinsulated 
or without 

cables ( for voltage upto IIOOV ) 
earth con 

with aluminium conductors 
tinuity con 

(revised ) . 
ductor 
PVC sha 
thed ) . 


1 - 12 -66 


24 . CM / L -564 

19 - 7 - 1963 


I - 12 -66 


25. CM /L - 589 

14 - 10 - 1963 


16 - 11- 66 


[PARTII 


26. CML-591 

21- 10 - 1943 


61- 1 1 -66 


dxc.(1)] 


27. CMYL -592 

21- 10 - 1963 


16 - 11 - 66 


15 -11-67 M /s. Shalimar Tar Products Bitumen (plastic) for Water-proof - IS : 1580- 1960 Specification for 
( 1935 ) Limited, 26 Lake Road , ing purposes. 

bitumen (plastic ) for Water 
Bhandup , Bombay- 7ı having 

proofing purposes. 
their office at 16 Bank Street , 

Bombay- 1. 
15 - 11-67 M /s . Shalimar Tar Products Pieförmed fillers for expansioa IS : 1338 - 1961 Specification for 

( 1935 ) Limited , 26 Lake Road , jointin concrete non - extruding preformed fillers for expansion 
Bhandup , Bombay - 71 having and cezilient type ( bitumen im - joint in concrete non -extruding 
their office at 16 Bank Sireet, pregnated fibre ) . 

and resilient type (bitumen 
Bombay - I , 

impregnated ). 
15 -11-67 The Metal Box Co of India Ltd ., 18 -litre square tins. 

IS : 916 - 1958 Specification for 
Jeppo , Mangalore having their 

18 - litre square tins. 
office at Barlow House , 59C , 
Chowringhee Road , Calcutta 


28 . CML - 593 

28 - 10 - 1963 


16 - 11- 66 


20 . 


29. CM /L - 595 

30 - 10 - 1963 


" I- 12 -56 


37 - 11-67 


M s. Pesticides India , Uliisagar . Endrin emulsifiable cuacentrates IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
Road , Udaipur . 

endrin emulsifiable concentrates , 


30 . CML - 598 

7 - 11- 1963 


1 - 12 -66 


IS : 694 (Part- I) 1964 Specifi 
cation for PVC insulated cables 
(for voltage up to 1100 V ) with 
copper conductor (revised ). 


30 - 11 -67 M /s. Skytone Electricals (India ), (1) Single core (unsheathed ) PVC 

43- Industrial Area , Faridabad insulated cables , 250 /440 volts 
having their Head Office at and 6501-1100 volts grades 
2655 - Sadar Thana Road , with copper or aluminium con - 
Delhi -6 . 

(2 ) Single core (sheathed ) PVC 

insulated cables ,259 / 440 volts 
gradeswith copper or alamini 
um conductors ; 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA8,1885 


ductors , 


(12) IS : 594 (Part ID - 1964 Spe 
cification for PVC insulated 

cables (forvoltage upto 1100V) 
with aluminium conductors 
(revised ) . 


(3 ) Single core ( sheathed ) PVC 

insulatedcables , 650 /1100 volts 
gradewith copper conductors , 

only ; and 
( 4 ) Twin - twisted (unsheathed ) 

flexible cords, 250 /440 volts 
grade with copper conductors 

only . 
15 - 11-67 M /s . S . R . Sharma& Sons, 140 , Brass ball valves (horizontal 

Rai Bahadur R . N .Guha Road , ( plunger type) Ismm size. 
Dum Dum , Calcutta -28 haring 

their office at 85 Notaji Subbes 
Road , Calcutte - I , 


31 . CM / L - 780 

10 - 9 - 1964 


15 - 11 - 4 


IS : 1703- 1962 Specification for 
ball valves (horizontal type ) 
including fioats for Water supply 
purposes . 


3579 


32 . CM / L - 802 

23 - 17 - 1964 


16 - 11 -66 


for 


15 - 11 -67 M /s. K . L . Malhotra Brothers , 

WX - 83 , Basti Nau , Juilundur 
City. 


Badminton racket frames , super IS : 831 - 1957 Specification 

and specialgrades of the follow - . badminton racket frames . 

ing brands: 
(1) Viking Malbro , fitted with 

steelshaft 
Kü ) Viking Malbro , fitted with 

woodenshaft (Champion 
Model) 
( 19 ) The Rock , fitted with steel 

shaft. 


33 . CML809 

26 - 10 - 1964 


I - 11 -66 


31 - 10 - 67 M /s Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, 

Jullundur City . 


3580THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA8,1888 


34. CM / 

1810 
26 - 10 - 1964 


1- 11- 66 


Structural steel (standard quality ) IS :226 _ 1962 Specification for 

structural steel (standard qua 

lity ) ( third revision ). 
Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS :1977 - 1962 Specification for 

structural steel ( ordinary 

quality ). 
Sago (Saboodana ) 

IS :899 - 1956 Specification for 

sago (saboodana). 
Sago (saboodana ) 

IS :899 - 1956 Specification for 

sego ( saboodana ) . 


31 - 10 -67 M /s Aeron Steel Rolling Mills , 

Jullundur City . 


16 - 11 -66 


35. CM - 815 

30 - 10 - 1964 
36 . CML - 816 

30 - 10 - 1964 


15 - 11 -67 M / s Shanmuga Sago Factory , 

Sheyapet , Salem - 2 . 
15 - 11 -67 M / s Poni Sago Factory , Omalur 

Road , Salem - s. 


16 - 11- 66 


37 . CM / L - 823 

2 - II - 1964 


16 -11- 66 


15 - 11 -67 


M /s Swadeshi Industries Ltd ., 

33, Netaji Subhash Road , Cal 
culta . 


Structural steel (standard quality ) IS 2261962 Specification for 

for sections up to 25 mm dia structural steel (standard qu 
or square and other sections of lity ) (third revision ). 
equivalent area . 


38 . CM / L - 824 

2 - 11 - 1964 


16 - 11-66 


15 - 11 - 67 


M / s Skadeshi Industries Ltd . , 

33 , Netaji Subhash Road , Cal - 
cutta . 


Structural steel (ordinary qua 

lity ) for sections ap to 25 mm 
dia or square and other sections 
of equivalent аrеа . 


IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 

structural steel ( ordinary 
quality ) . 


39. CM /L - 827 

2 -11- 1964 


16 - 11 -66 


15 - 11- 67 


M /s Jindal Steel Works ,Maler- 


Structural steel (standard que . 

lity ). 


kotia. 


IS : 226 _ - 1962 Specification for 

structural steel (standard que 
lity ) ( third revision ). 


[PAKT11 


40 CM / L - 828 

2 - II 


16 - 11-66 


Sec.8(ii)] 


16 -11- 66 


41 CM / L - 831 

2 - 11 - 1964 


72 CML - 832 

2 - II 


16 - 11- 66 


[ - 12 - 66 


43 . CML - 334 

9 - II - 1974 


15 - 11- 67 M /s Jindal Steel Works , Maler - Structural steel (ordinary qua - IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
kotla . lity , 

structural steel (ordinary 

quality ). 
15 - 11 -67 Mis Aggarwal Hardware Works Structural steel ( standard quali- IS : 226 – 1962 Specification for 

Private Ltd ., 167, Chittaranjan ty ) , tested steel rounds up to structural steel (standard qua 
Avenue , Calcutta . 

1 ( 25 mm ) dia and flats up Lity ) (third revision ) . 
to I x to 2 xi (25 mmx6 
mm to so mmx12 . 7 mm ) and 

sections of equivalent area . 
15 - 11 -67 M /s Aggarwal Hardware Works Structural steel (ordinary qua IS :1977 - 1962 Specification for 

Private Ltd ., 167, Chittaran - lity ), tested steel rounds up to structural steel ordinary 
jan Avenue, Calcutta , 

I* (25 mmidia and flats up to quality ) . 
l x1 to 2 x } " (25 mmx6 mm 
to 50 mm to 127mm ) and 

sections of equivalent area . 
30 - 11 -67 M / s Special Steels Limited , Steel Wire for the core of steel IS : 398 — 1961 Specification for 

Dattapura Road , Boriyli (East ), cored aluminium conductors 1 Hard - drawn stranded alumi 
Bombay - 66 . 

for overhead power transmi mium and steel- cored alumi 
ssion purposes . 

nium conductors for overhead 
power transmission purposes 

(retised ). 
31 -5 - 67 Mls Industrial Research Corps . Doe - based fountain pen ink IS : 1221 -- 1957 Specification for 
ration , 2 / 70 East Mida Street , ( blue , green , red , violet ) . 

dye -based fountain pen ink 
Thiruvanmiyur, Madras-41. 

( blue, green , violet , black and 

red ). 
30 - 11 -67 Mls Shusher Sterling Cible Type 

Voltage Conduc- (i) IS :694 (Part 1) _ 1964 Spe 
Corporation Ltd ., Kirol-Ghat 

Grade tor cification for PVC insulated 
kopar , Bombay - 77 having their ( a ) PVC -insulated cables 

cables (for voltage up to 
Registered Office at Vaswani (i) Single core 250 / 440 Copper 1100 V ) with copper conduc 
Mansions, Dinsha Vacha Rd . , ( unsheathed ) & or alu - tors (retised ). 
Bombay - 1. 

650 / 1100 minjum 

volts . 
(in) Single core 250 / 440Aluminiar (in IS :694 (Part II) - 1964 Sre . 
PVC sheath - & only . cification for PVC insulated 
650 /1100 V 

cables ( for voltages up to 
(b ) PVC flexible cords 

1100 V with aluminjud con 
( iii) Twin twis - 250 / 440 Copper ductors ( revised ). 

ted (unshea - Folts only 
thed ) 
( iv ) PVC insu - 250 ! 440 ] 
lated and polts 
sheathed 


I - 12- 66 


44 CM L - 539 

23- 11 - 1964 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA4,1988 


1 - 12 - 56 


45 CM / L - 840 

23 - II - 1964 


ed ) 


3581 


46 


CM L -846 
28 - 11 - 1964 


1 - 12 - 66 


IS :2818 - 1964 Specification for 
Indian hessian , 


:: 


47 CM ! L - 847 

28 - II - 1964 


30 - 11 -67 M s Kanknarrah Co. Ltd ., 1 Clark Jute hessian 

Ghat Road , Bhatpara , 24 Par 
ganas having their Office at 

4 Clive Row , Calcutta - i. 
30 - 11-67 Mis Kanknarrah Co. Ltd ., I Jute sackings 

Clark Ghat Road , Bhatpara , 
24 Parganas having their 
Office at 4 Clive Row , Cal 
cutta - 1. 


I - 12- 66 


IS : 1943- 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags ( retised . 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags (recised ). 
IS :2874- 1964 Specification for 

beavy ce jute bags . 
IS :2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks. 
IS :2818 - 1954 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


* 8 CM / L -550 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 66 


Jute hessian 


30 - 11- 67 Mi s Hohrah Mills Co . Ltd ., 

493 / C / A , G . T . Road , South 
Howrah having their Office 

at Clive Row , Calcutta - I . 
30 -11-67 M s Howrah Mills Co . Ltd ., 

493/CIA , G . T . Road , South 
Howrah having their Office 
at 4 Clive Row , Calcutta - I . 


35821HEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA%,1888 


I - 12 - 66 


Jute sackings 


49 CM / L - 851 

28 - 11 - 1964 


IS : 1943- 1964 Specification for 

A -twill jute bags ( retised , 
IS : 2566- 1965 Specification for 

B - t will jute bags ( crisid ). 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks. 
IS :2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian, 


50 CM / L - 858 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 - 12 -66 


Jute hessian 


30 - 11- 67 M /s Auckl and Jute Co. Ltd ., 

Jagatdal, 24 Parganas having 
their Office at Chartered Bank 

Building, Calcutta - 1. 
30 - 11 -67 M s Auckland Jute Co. Ltd ., 

Jagatdal , 24 Parganas having 
their Office at Chartered Bank 
Building, Calcutta - I , 


SI CM / L - 859 

28 - 11 - 1964 


I - 12 - 66 


Jure sackings 


IS :1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (revised . 
IS : 2566- 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags ( revised ) , 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS :2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks, 


[PART]I 


52 CML- 365 

28 - II - 1964 


for 


IS :2818 - 1964 Specification 

Indian hessian 


SEC.3(ii)] 


- 12 -66 30 - 11 -67 The Northbrook Jute Co. Ltd ., Jute hessian 

Champdany , Distt. Hooghly , 
having their Office at Char 
tered Bank Building . Cal 

cutta - 1 , 
- 12 -66 30 - 11-67 The Northbrook Jute Co . Ltd ., Jute sackings 

Chimpdany, Distt. Hunghly , 
having their Office at Char 
tered Bank Buildiug, Cal 
cutta - I . 


53 CM L - 866 

28 - 11- 1964 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags ( revised ) . 
IS :2566- 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jutc bags (recised ). 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification for 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS :2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks . 
IS :2818 - 196 . Specification for 

Indian hessian , 


54 CM L - 883 

28- 11- 1964 


[- 12 -66 


30 - 11-67 M s Hastings Mills Ltd., Rishra , Jute hessian 

Hooghly , having their Office at 
14 Netaji Subhas Road , Cal 

cutta - I . 
30 -11-67 M s Hastings Mills Ltd ., Rishra . Jute sackings 

Hooghly , having their Office 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road Cal 
cuita - I . 


55 CM L - 384 

28 - 11 - 1967 


- 1-12-66 


IS : 1943- 1964 Specification ror 

A - twill jute bags (revised ) . 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags . ( Tetised ). 
IS :2874 - 1964 Specification to 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS :2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks . 
IS :2818 -1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA9,1888,3583 


I - 12 -66 


Jute hessian 


56 CM / L -885 

29 - 11 - 1964 


30 - 11 -67 M s Fort William Co. Ltd ., 

47 : 48 Raj Varain Roychowa 
dhury Gbat Road , Shibpore , 
Howrah having, their Oftia 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road , 

Calcutta - I. 
30 - 11 -67 M s Fort William Co . Ltd ., 

47/ 48 Raj Narain Roychow 
dhury Ghat Road , Shibporc , 
Howrah , having their Office 
at 14 Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - 1 . 


57 CM / L - 886 

2S - II- 1961 


I- 12 -66 


Jute sackings 


for 


for 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification 

A - twul jute bags (revised ). 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

Biwill jute bags ( Tetised ) . 
IS :2874 - 1964 Specification 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS :2875- 1964 Specification 

jute corn sacks. 


for 


for 


(2) 
58 CML- 889 

28 - 11 - 1966 


IS : 2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


(3) 545 
I - 12 -66 30 - 11-67 Mis Megna Mills Co . Ltd ., PO , Jute hessian 

Jagatdal , 24 Parganas having 
their Office at 16 Strand 

Road , Calcutta - I . 
I- 12 -66 30 - 11-67 M s Megna Mills Co . Ltd ., P . O . Jute sackings 

Jagatdal, 24 Purgiinas having 
their Office at 16 Surand Road , 
Galcutta - 1. 


50 CM L -890 

2S - 11 - 1964 


IS : 1913 - 1964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (reviscui. 
IS :2566 -1965 Specification for 

B - twill jute bags (Teerised ) . 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification for 

jute corn sacks. 
IS :2818 . 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian , 


1 - 12 - 66 


60 CML- 891 

28 -11- 1964 


30 -11- 67 M /s Alliance Jute Mills Co. Jute hessian 

Ltd ., P . O . Jagatdal , 24 Par 
ganas having their Office at 
3 Netaji Suhlias Road , Gal 

utta - I , 
30 - 11 -67 Al s Alliance Jute Mills Co , Lid , jute sackings 

P . O . Jagatdal, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 3 Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta - I , 


35841ALGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PACS4%,1898 


[ - 12 - 66 


61 CML- 892 

28 - II - 1964 


IS : 19431- 964 Specification for 

A - twill jute bags (retised ) . 
IS :2566- 1965 Specification 

B - twill jute bags ( reetsed ) . 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

heavy cee jute bags . 
IS : 2875 -1964 Specification for 

jute COTN Sacks. 
IS :2818 - 1964 Specification for 

Indian hessian . 


62 CM /L -903 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 - 12 -66 30 -11 -67 M /s Gagalbhai Jute Müls (P ) Jute hessian 

Ltd ., Sijberia , P . O , Uheria , 
Horrah having their Office 
at 18 Netaji Subhas Road , 

Calcutta - 1. 
I- 12 - 66 30 -11 -67 M s Gagalbhai ſute Mills P ) Ltd , Jute sackings 

Sijberia , P . O . Ulberia , Howrah 
having their Office at 18 Netaji 
Subhas Road , Calcutta - . 


63 CML- 90 .1 

28 - 11 - 1964 


IS : 1943 - 1944 Specification 

for A - twill jute bags frprised ) . 
IS : 2566- 1965 Specification 

for B -twill jute bags ( rervised ). 


IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags. 
IS : 2875- 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks . 


[PartII 


64 CMIL - 905 

28 - II- 1964 


1- 12 -66 


VT 


Is : 2818 - 1964 Specification 
for Indian hessiari, 


DEC.8(ii)] 


30 - 11 -67 M s Caledonjan Jute Mills Co , fute Hessian 

Ltd ., 18 Mehta Road , Bade 
kalinagas , Budge Budge, 24 
Parganas having their Office 
at 9 Brabourne Road , 

Culcutta - I. 
30 - 11-67 M s Caledonjan Jute Mills Go , Jute sackings 

Ltd . 18 Mehta Road , Bade 
kalinagar , Budge Budge , 
2 . Parganas having their 
Office at 9 Brabourne Road , 
Calcutta - I , 


ás CML- 905 

28 - 11- 1964 


1 - 12 - 66 


IS : 1943- 196 .1 Specification 
fur I -twill juic bags (l etised ! 


IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jule bags (revised ) . 
IS : 2874 - 195 . Specification 

for heavy cerjulu bags, 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for juic corn bags , 


66 CM /L -913 

28 - 1 1 - 1964 


1-4366 30 ** 


I - 12 -66 


· 


IS : 2818- 1964 Specification 
for Indian hessian . 


30 - 11 - 67 M s Bally fute Co. Ltd , 5 Jute hessian 

Scott Kerr Road , Bally , 
Howrah having their Office at 
15 India Exchange Place , 

Calcutta - 1. 
30 - 11-67 Mi s , Bally Jute Co . Ltd ., 5 Scott Jute sackings 

Kerr Road , Bally , Howrah 
having their office at Is India 
Exchange Place , Calcutta - I . 


6 - CM / L - 914 

28 - 11 - 1967 


1 - 12 - 66 


IS : 1943 - 1954 Spec lication 

für A - twill jute bags retised . 
IS : 2556 - 1965 Spécification 

for B -twill jute bags imelised . 
IS : 2971 - 1964 Specification 

fui heity cee jutr 5g., 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA3,1888 


1 - 12 - 66 


wo CM L - 905 

28- 11 - 1911 


IS : 2818 - 1994 Specification 
for Indian hessian , 


30- 11- 57 M /s Birla Jurc Mfg . Ch. Lidt , Jute hessian 

Birtapur, 24 Parganas having 
their office at 15 India Ex 

change Place , Calcutta - 1. 
30 - 11-67 11/s Birla Jite Mfg . Co. Ltr ., Jute sackings 

Birlapur, 2.4 Parganas having 
their Office at 15 India Ex 
change Place , Calcutta - I , 


69 


C +1 - 016 
29 - 11 -194 


1 -12-66 


IS : 1913 -1714 Specification 

for A -fwill jute bags retired ) . 
IS : 2561 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jute bags (rei iscal, 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heayy æc jute bags . 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks . 


3585 


70 CM / L -917 

28 - 11 - 1961 


IS : 2818 _ 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


I - 12 - 66 30- 11 - 17 M / s Soorah Jute Mills Co, Ltd . Jute heszian 

102 Narkeldanga Main Road , 
Calcutta -il having their 
Office at 15 India Exchange 

Place , Calcutta - 1, 
1 - 12 - 66 39 - 11 -67 M /s Soorah Jute Mills Co, Ltd , Tute sackings 

102 Narkeldanga Main 
Road , Calcutta - II. having 
their Office at Is India Ex 
change Place , Ciucutta - 1 , 


71 CM / L -918 

28 - II- 1961 


IS : 1913 - 1964 Specificatio " 

for A - twill jute bags (retised ) 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jute bags (retisco ) 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy æe jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specficiation 

for jute cośn sacks 
IS . : 2818 _ 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


12 CY ! L -919 

28 - II - 1964 


1 - 12 -66 


35861HEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA3,1898 


- 3 CM /L - 920 

28 - 11 - 1964 


30 - 11- 07 - The Vailali Jute Mills Co , Lii., Jute hessian 

P . O . Hazinagar, 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 33 Netaji 

Subhas Road , Calcutta - I, 
30 - 11 -67 The Naihati Jute Mills Co. Ltd ., Jure sackings 

P . O . Hazinagar, 24 Praganas 
having their Office at 33 
Netaji Subhas Road , 
Calcutta - I . 


I - 12 -66 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 

for A - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

B - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2874 – 1964 Specification 

for heavy ce jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1965 Specification 

for jute cośn sacks 


74 CM /L -927 


1 - 12 -66 


IS : 2818 – 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


30 -11-67 Al s Champdany Jute Co. Ltd ., Jute hessiani 

(Wellingoton Jute ), G . T . 
Road , Rishra , Hooghly having 
their office at 2 Netaji Subhas 

Road , Calcuta - I. 
30 -11-67 M /s Champdany Jute Co . Ltd ., Jute sackings 

(Willingoton Jute ), G . T . Road , 
Rishra , Hooghly having 
their Office at 2 Netaji Subhas 
Road , Calcutta - I , 


25 CM /L - 928 

28 - 11 - 1964 


[- 12 -66 


IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification 

for A - twill jutc bags (retised ) 
IS ; 2566 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jute bags (Terised 
IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2 875 — 1964 Specification 

for jute corn _ Sacks 


[PARTII 


76 CML- 945 

28 - II- 196. 


1 -13 -66 


IS : 2818 --- 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


30 - 11 -67 M s Ganges Mfg. Co. Ltd .,Bans- Jute hessian 

beria , Hooghly having their 
Office at 11 Rabindra Šarani, 

Calcuita - I , 
30 - 11-67 M s Ganges Mfg. Co. Ltd ., Bans- Jute sackings . 

beria , Hooghly having their 
Office at 11 Rabindra Sarani. 
Calcutta - I. 


Sec.8(ii)] 


77 CM / L - 946 

28 - 11 - 196 .1 


1 - 12 -66 


ĪS : 193 - 1994 Specification 

for a twill jute bags ( revised ) 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jutu bags frevised ) 
IS : 2874 – 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks 


78 CM / L - 957 

28 - II - 1964 


1 - 12 -66 


IS : 2818 — 1964 Specification 

for Indian hessian 


30 -11- 67 M /s Prabarlak Jute Mills Ltd ., Jutc hessian 

Kamarhalti, B . T . Road , 24 
Parganas having their Offic 
at 5 Synagargile Street, 

Calcutta - I , 
30 - 11 -67 M /s Prabartak Jute _ Mills Ltd ., Jute sackings 

Kamarhatti , B . T . Road , 24 
Parganas having their Office 
at 5 Synagogue Street , 
Calcutta - 1. 


79 CM L - 958 

28- TI- 1964 


I- 12 - 66 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 

for A - Will juie bags (retrised 
IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 

for B - twill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2874 – 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks 
IS : 2818 --- 1964 Specification 

fos Jadian hessian 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER21,1966/PAUSA3,188813587 


Xo CM /L - 959 

28 - 11 - 1964 


1- [2 -66 


30 - 11 -67 M s Reliance Jute Mills Co , Ltd ., Jute hessian 

Rly . Station Kankinasrah . 
P . O . Bhatpara , 24 Parganas 
having their Office at 9 
Brabourne Road , Calcutta - J . 


SI CM / L - 960 

28 - II - 1967 


I- 12 - 66 


30 -11- 67 M /s Reliance Jute Mills Co . Ltd ., Jute sackings 

Rly . Station Kankinarrah , 
P . O . Bhatpara , 24 Parganas 
having their Office at Brabourite 
Road , Calcutta - 1 , 


IS : 1943 — 1964 Specification 

for A -iwill jute bags (revised ) 
IS : 2566 — 1965 Specification 

for B -lwill jute bags (revised ) 
IS ; 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 — 1964 Specification 

for jute con sacks 


- 


- - 


- 


- (1) 


(2 ) 


( 5 ) 


82 CM / L - 961 

28 - 11 - 1964 


83 CM / L - 062 

28 - 11- 1964 


84 CM / L - 269 

28 - II - 1964 


1 - 12 - 66 30 - 11 -67 M / s Kanoria Co . Ltd ., Chengail Jute hessian 

IS 2818 — 1964 Specification 
Rly . Station P . O . Chakasi, 

for Indian hessian 
Howrah having their Officeat 

18 Mullick Street , Calcutta - 7 
I- 12 - 66 30 - 11-67 Més Kanoria Co. Ltd . , Chengail Jute sackings 

IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification 
Rly . Station , P . O . Chakasi , 

for A - twill jute bags (revised ) 
Howrah having their Office at 

IS : 2566 – 1965 Specification 
18 Mullik Street, Calcutta - 7 . 

for B - twill jute bags (retised ) 
IS : 2874 – 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks 
1 - 12 - 66 30 - 11-67 M / s Bhutoria Bros (P ) Ltd . , 130 Jute hessian 

IS : 2318 - 1964 Specification 
Dharamtolla Road , Salkia , 

for Indian hessian 
Howrah having their Office 
at 56 Netaji Subhas Road , 

Calcutta - I . 
1 - 12 -66 30- 11-67 M /s Bhutoria Bros (P ) Ltd ., 130 Jute sackings 

IS : 1943 - 1964 Specification 
Dharamtolla Road , Salkia , 

for A -twill jute bags ( revised ) 
Howrah having their Office - 

IS : 2566 - 1965 Specification 
at 56 Netaji Subhas Road , 

for B - twill jute bags (revised ) 
Calcutta - 1 , 

IS : 2874 - 1964 Specification 

for heavy cee jute bags 
IS : 2875 - 1964 Specification 

for jute corn sacks 
16 - 11- 66 15 - 11 -67 The Fort William Co. Ltd ., (Steel (1) Steel wire ropes for general IS : 2256 – 1963 Specification 
Wire & Rope Division ) 6 / A , engineering purposes 

for steel wire ropes for general 
G , T . Road , Konnagar, Dt. ( i ) Round strand galvanized engineering purposes 
Hooghly , West Bengal having steel wire ropes for shipping 
their Regd Office at 14 ,Netaji purposes 

IS : 2581 — 1963 Specification 
Subhas Road , Calcutta - I , 

for round strand galvanized 
steel wire ropes for shipping 

purposes 
[•11 -66 31- 10 -67 M /s Hindustan Lever Ltd. ,Grand Poultry feeds (chick mash , gro - IS : 1374 - 1964 Specification 

Trunk Road , Ghaziabad wer mash and layer mash ) for poultry feeus (Tetrised ) 
( W . P .) having their Office at 
Espress Building, Bahadur Shah 
Zalar Marg , New Delhi. 


3588THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,,1966/PAUSA3,1888 


85 CM / L - 970 

28 - II- 1964 


86 CM / L - 1126 

12 - 8 - 1965 


87 CM / L - 1157 

28 - 10 - 1965 


[PART1]-- 


88 


CM / L - 1160 
29 - 10 - 1945 


16 - 11- 66 


SEC.B(li)] 


89 CM /L - II6I 

2 - 11- 1965 


16 - 11-66 


- 


- 


90 CM / L - 1163 

4 - II - 1965 


16 - 11 -66 


- 


- 


15 -11- 67 Als Bharat Pulverising Mills Malathion dusting powders , Is : 2568 1963 Specification 
Private Ltd ., Hexamar House , 

for Dalathion dusting powders 
Sayani Road , Bombay - 28 . 
15 - 11-67 M /s Madhya Pradesh Iron & Structural steel (standard quality ) IS : 226 – 1962 Specificatio 
Steel Works Private Ltd ., 

for structural steel (standard 
NandiniRoad , Bhilai-I( M .P .) 

quality) (third revision ) 
15- 11-67 The Leeds MeterMfg . Company Water meters ( domestic tyre) IS : 779 - 1965 Specification 

15 mm size 

for Water meters (domestic 

type ) ( Second revision ) 
Mathuradas Mills Compound , Ltd . , 

Delisle Road , Lower Parol , 
Bombay- 13 having theiroffice 
at Gateway Building, Apollo 

Bunder, Bombay - 1 . 
30- 11 -67 The Indian Iron & Steel Co . Ltd . , Mild steel and medium steel IS : 432 — 1960 Specification for 

Burnpur Works , P . O . Burnpus, tensile steel bars and hard - mild sicel and medium tensile 
Distt. Burdwan , West Bengal, drawn steelWire for concrete steelbars and hard -drawn steel 
having their Office at 12 reinforcement 

wire for concrete reinforce 
Mission Row , Calcutta - i, 

stkent ( revised ) 


- 


- 


- 


I - 12 - 66 


91 CM / L - 1167 

23 - 11 - 1965 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA9,1888 


S . K . SEN , 
Deputy Director General. 


--- 


. 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


3589 


3590 IHL GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


[PART II 


MINISTRY OF WORKS, HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 
$ . O . 3925 . . In pursuance of the provisions of Rule 45 of the Fundamental Rules, 
the President hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Allotment of 
Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 1963, contained in Part 
VIII- Division XXVI- B of the Supplementary Rules issued with the Government of 
India Finance Department letter No. 104 - CSR , dated the 4th February , 1922, 
namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Allotment of Government Residences (General 
Pool in Delhi) Fifth Amendment Rules , 1966 , 

2 . In the Allotment of Government Residences (General Pool in Delhi) Rules, 
1963 ( contained in part VIII -Division XXVI- B oť the Supplementary Rules). 
In Item (1) of the table under S . R . 317 - B - 11 ( 2 ), the words " Resignation , dis 

missal, removal or termination of service shall be substituted by the 
words " Resignation , dismissal or removal from service , termination of 
service or unauthorised absence without permission ," 

( No . F .3 / 5 / 66- Acc.I.] 
K , C . JOSHI, Dy. Secy . 


- - - 


- 


- 


- - - - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- - - - - -- 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1968 
S . O . 8926 . - In pursuence of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Industry /West Ena Colliery of East Industry Colliery Company 
( Private ) Ltd ., P . O . Dhansar (Dhanbad ) and their workmen , which was received 
by the Central Government on the 6th December , 1968 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT 

DHANBAD 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of The Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 . 

REFERENCE No . 36 OF 1964 
Employers in relation to the Industry /West Ena Colliery of East Industry 

Colllery Company ( P ) Ltd . 


Vs. 


Their Workmen 
PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad .-- Presiding Officer, 
For the Employers - Shri K . V . Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer of the Com 

pany . 
For the Workmen .. Shri Shankar Bose , along with the concerned workman 

in person . 
STATE ; Bihar , 

INDUSTRY; Coal. 
Camp: Patna, dated the 19th October, 1966. 

AWARD 
By Its Order No. 2 / 8 /64-LRII dated 26th March , 1964 , the Government of 
India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 
The Industrial Disputes Act , 1947, to this Tribunal for adjudication , an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Industry /West Ena 
Colliery of East Industry Colliery ( P ) Ltd ., P . O . Dhansar , (Dhanbad ) and their 


Sec . 3 ( li ) 1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PALSA 3 , 1888 35911 
- - - - - - - - = - - - - 

- - - - - - - - 
workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed to the said 
order reference which is reproduced below : 

SCIIHDULE 
" Whether the monagement of Industiy /West Ena Colliery (East Industry 

Colliery Company ( Private ) Limited ) was justified in tcrminating 
the services of Dr . M , Hazra , Medical Oficer of the colliery by their 
letter dated 11th November , 1963 ? If not, to what relief is the work 
man entitled ? " 


2 . On 20th May , 1964, the Employers filed their written statement in which 
several objections were taken but it may be mentioned that the objection taken 
regulding individual dispute wils not pressed at the hearing . The case of the 
manegement was that Buchai Mandal, a mirer , who was absenting from a long 
time appeared in the colliery on 7th August, 1963 and Dr. M . Hazra , the concern 
ed workman , made a false recommendation that the said Budhan Mandal was 
sick and under his treatment from 6th June, 1963 to 6th August, 1963 and was 
fit for duty from 7th August , 1963 ; that when this fact was made known to the 
Manager he sent for the sick register for verification but on getting the scent the 
Medical Officer Dr, M . Hazra intercepted the Register on the way and got false 
entries of sickness entered in the Register by putting pressure on tho trainee 
Compounder ; that , therefore, a chargesheet was issued to Dr. M . Hazra on 9th 
August, 1963, to which he gave a reply on 10th August , 1963, and , thereafter , a 
departmental enquiry was held in presence of Dr. Hazra and at the said enquiry 
his misconduct was established , and , therefore , his services were terminated by 
offering him one month s wages in lieu of notice and as such his termination of 
service was justified and he was not entitled to any relief. 


3 . On 20th June, 1964 , a rejoinder to the employers statement was received 
from the concerned workman from the General Secretary, Colllery Mazdoor 
Sangh , wherein the case of the workman was stated . Dr, Hazra s case was that 
he was in the colliery for about 14 years and had a blameless record throughout 
but he was arbitrarily and mala fidely dismissed without any fault of his ; that a 
chargessheet was issued to him on false and concocted charges based on a preme 
ditated conspiracy to remove him from service by omitting deliberately to men 
tion the specific clause in the Standing Orders in terms of which he was alleged 
to have committed the alleged misconduct to which he replied denying the char 
ges ; subscquently , however, more than three months later and without any ex 
planation for the long interval, the Manager of the Colliery informed him allcging 
that enquiry had been held on 22nd August, 1963 , and 28th August, 1963 , and as 
a result of the said enquiry he was dismissed with effect from ilth November , 
1963 ; that his services had been terminated in violation of the principles of natural 
Justice under the seemingly innocuous garb of terminating his service without due 
notice but the said dismissal was void ab initio , and , therefore , it was in -opera 
tive and the enquiry was also vitiated and invalid ; that, as such , the termination 
of his servicc be set aside and he be reinstated to his previous post with full back 
wages . 


4 . When the case was taken up for hearing on 11th October, 1966 , Shri K . V . 
Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer , represented the management and Shri Shankar 
Bose represented the concerned workman who also was personally present. Both 
the parties Aled documents , which , with mutual consent, were taken in evidence 
and marked Exhibits on both sides. Documents of the management were marked 
Exts . M . to M . 31, and documents of the union were marked Exts , W . to W . 2 . 
The company also fled original enquiry papers but they were returned as the 
true copies filed were correct. None of the parties examined any witness but both 
of their argued the case and after arguments were concluded , award was reserv 
ed. 


5 . Put shortly . the facts of the case may be stated in their chronological order 
with their exhibit numbers as below : 
7 - 8 - 1963.- - Bildhan Mandal - gave a written statement on which his thumb 

Impression was taken (Ert . M - 9 ) ( English ) -Ext. M - 16 , M - 17 and 
M - 27 ( Hindi) in which he stated that due to a fall of piece of coal 
from the roof at the time of cutting coal he got injury in his finger 
and he took treatment from the Colliery Doctor for a month and 
thereafter when he did not become fit hr went home and after 
reaching home he fell ill and duc to this he stayed at home for a 
month and returned to the colliery after becoming alright. This 
statement is witnessed by one Lalu Mandal who has also put his 
thumb Impression . 


- 3592 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8 , 1883 


[L skt 11 


14 


- 


- - . - 


- . - u 


LV - 


101 


. 


7 - 8 - 1963 . — On the same day , Gangadhar Majumdur , the trainee Compounder , 

wrote a letter to the Manager in Bengalee, of which the English 
translation is Ext. M - 15 , in which he stated that he went to bring the 
sick register from the quarter of the Compounder Babu but on the 
way Dr. Hazra obstructed him and compelled him to write Budhan 
Mandal s name in the register and sceing the delay in my coming 
Compounder Babu sent one Muslim who met me and said that Labour 
Oficer had wanted this Register but Dr. Hazra told him to go and he 
was taking the Register with him and that Muslim has seen that 
Hazra compelled him to write , and , therefore , Muslim may be called 

and he may be able to tell the whole matter . 
9 - 8 - 1963 . — The Manager issued a chargesheet Ert. M to Dr, Hazra asking 

him to show cause why disciplinary action should not be taken against 
him because Budhan Mandal, Miner , was absent for two months from 
5th June, 1963, to 6th August , 1963 , from his duty and he allowed 
him to resume duty on 7th August , 1963 , making him sick for the 
above period , although from the office record it appears he was not 
sick at all and he admitted himself that he was at his home for more 
than one month and that he did not take medicine from him for that 
period and further that on 7th August, 1963, he snatched the register 
from Shri Gangadhar Majumdar, trainee compounder , who was taking 
the sick register to the once and compelled him to enter the name of 
Budhan Mandal in the sick register and that it was regrettable that 
inspite of several verbal warnings he has not removed these defects 

in himself . 
10 - 8 - 1963 . — Dr. Hazra submitted his explanation Ext . M - 1 to the above 

chargesheet stating that Budhan Mandal reported sick on 5th June, 
1963 and periodically he took medicine from the dispensary as per 
the prescription and he was also advised to take rest and to the best 
of his knowledge he was sick and he could not say whether his report 
as stated by the Manager was correct and further stated that the 
allegation brought against him that the gick register was snatched 
away from the compounder and he compelled the compounder to 

enter the name of Budhan Mandal was absolutely false . 
• 22 - 8 - 1963. - Shri V . N Pathak , Labour Welfare Officer , held the enquiry in 

presence of the concerned workman and recorded the statement of 
Dhanapathi Dutta , Compounder , Ext. M - 3 ( English ) - Ext. M - 24 
( Hindi) and of Gangadhar Majumdar, trainee compounder , Ext . M - 4 
(English ) Ext. M - 24 ^ (Hindi) ; Muslim Mia Ext. M -5 (English ) 
Ext. M - 25 ( Hindi) and of Rupan Turi Hat. M - 8 ( English ) - M - 26 
(Hindi ) . It may be mentioned that none of the above witnesses of 
the company were cross examined by Dr. Hazra as mentioned in the 
enquiry papers. The enquiry however was adjourned to 28th August , 

1963 . 
28 - 8 - 1983. - On this date the Enquiry Officer recorded the statement of 

Budhan Mandal who confirmed his earlier statement Ext. M - 7 ( Eng 
lish ) - Ext. M - 16 and M - 17 and M -27 (Hindi) and stated that the 
sick ticket was kept in his shirt and was washed away when launder 
ing. On that day the statement of Dr. Hazra Ext. M - 8 (English ) 
M - 28 (Hindi) was also recorded by the Enquiry Oficer and Dr, Hazra 
affirmed that he replied to the chargesheet which is now Ext. M - I is 

correct and he has nothing further to say and no witness to examine . 
- 30 - 8 - 1963. - Shri V . N . Pathak , Enguiry Officer . submitted his enquiry report 

Ert. M - 2 in which he found that Dr, Hazra had given a false certi 
ficate to Budhan Mandal and pressed the trainee compounder to 
enter the name of Budhan Mandal in the register of sickness on 5th 
June, 1963, 6th June, 1963, and 8th June, 1963 , and thus he was guilty 
of the charges brought against him , and , therefore, the only action 
in such a case which could be was removal from service and he re 

commended accordingly . 
· 2 - 9 - 1963 . - The Manager sent a letter to the Director Ext. M - 21 recommend 

ing that the charges against Dr. Hazra have been proved and since he 
is an officer of the company he recommended as a special case that 
instead of dismissing him from service his services should be terminat 
ed with wages in lieu of one month s notice and , therefore , approval 

of the action was asked for . 
· 10 - 10 - 1963. - The Director informed the Manager Ext. M - 20 giving approval 

to the termination of the service of Dr. Hazra, 


- 


- 


- 


SEC , 8 (ii) TJIE GAZET TE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1966 / PAUSA 5 , 1888 3593 . 

= - -" - - - - - 
11- 11- 1963 . - The Manager wrote a letter to Dr. Hazra Ext, M - 10 - M -22 

informing that his services have been terminated with immediate 

effect and he should collect his dues. 
28 - 12- 1963, — Reply to the union s complaint to the Conciliation Officer ( C ) 

Ett. M - 23 by the Company s Group Labour Officer . 


6 . It may be mentioned at the out set that the Enquiry Officer Shri V . N . 
Pathak , who was Labour Welfare Officer of the company, died admittedly on 5th 
October , 1966 , a week before the commencement of the hearing of the case during 
the pendency of the reference. I wanted him to be examined before the Tribunal 
in order to clarify certain points arising out of the statement of Muslim Mia Ext. 
M -5 - M - 25 . Muslim Mia in his statement before Shri V , N . Pathak on 22nd August , 
1963 , Ext. M - 5 which is in English - Ext. M - 25 (Hindi) stated the " when I was 
returning I met the Welfare Officer in front of the union s Office . I gave him 
also the entire story " . In the Hindi Ext, M - 25 he stated that he told the Welfare 
Offlcer the entire story about Doctor Babu . It, therefore , struck me that when 
tie knew all the facts about the case from the start he should not have himself 
conducted the enquiry because he could have been cxamined as a witness by 
either side or as a court witness by the Tribunal and when he concealed this fact , 
as it is not known whether he was told the Manager about this fact, he certainly 
was not justified in doing so and as such the enquiry held by him cannot be said . 
to be fair and proper and in accordance with the principles of natural justice . 

or that reason , I wanted the Welfare Officer to be examined and then it was 
stated on behalf of the management that he was dead but unfortunately although 
the reference remained pending from 6th April, 1964 , till 4th October , 1966 , for 
about two years , the management did not make any attempt to examine him 
before the Tribunal, It may be said that the management did not anticipate that 
lie would die , and, therefore, no previous attempt was made, but I have no doubt . 
that the management must have known from at least Muslim Mia that while re 
turning from the house of compounder Babu where he went to bring the sick 
register , with the sick register he met the Welfare Officer on the way near the 
union s office and narrated to him as admitted by him all the facts of the case upto 
that stage , which was really the crucial stage ; It appears , therefore , that the 
enquiry hell and conducted by such an Enquiry Officer on no account, in my 
opinion , can be held impartial and frec from prejudice and fair and proper . On 
this ground alone the enquiry must be held to be invalid and set aside. It is a 
well -known principle that not only justice should be done but it must appear that 
fustice is being done . If a person having knowledge of the facts of the case from 
El prosecution witness is allowed to hold the enquiry I doubt very much if the 
uccused can be said to be satisfied that justice is being donc to him although he 
inay do justice . In the circumstances, apart from the other points which alse 
in this case, I think the enquiry must be hold to be inva id and set aside. 


7 . There is another point which struck me which unfortunatuly was not pressed 
by any party . It may be that I am wrong , but whenever it may be, I simply 
l ecord that fact for consideration if occassion arises . Dr. M Hazra it appears, 
on the letter of the Manager Ert . M - 21 " is an officer of the company " . Can such 
an officer of the company come within the word " workman " as defined in Section 
2 ( s ) of The Industrial Disputes Act so as to make the dispute between the em 
ployers and this officer un industrial dispute within the meaning of Section 2 ( k ) : 
of the Act. Unfortunately this point was not raised , and therefore no evidence 
was adduced by any side to show whether he draws wages exceeding Rs. 500 per 
month or he comes within Section 21s ) ( IV ) of the Art. Be that as it may , I do 
not express any opinion on this point and do not on this ground , therefore , reject 
the reference . 


8 . I may however express my opinion on the sick registe " Ext M - 30 on which 
alone reliance was placed by the management and also by the Enquiry Officer in 
his report Ext . M - 2 as will appear from pagc 2 where he says in paragraph 2 that 
" the register of sickness is the main important piece of erience. " The three en 
fies relied upon are ( 1 ) under date 5th June. 1963, Si No, 2338 ; ( ii ) under date 
8th June, 1963, S1. No . 2338 , and serial No. 2346 , and ( iii) under date 8th June , 
1963, Si. No . 2495 . It is said that Si, No. 2338 in the name of Budhan Mandal 
under date 5th June, 1963, and the name of Budhan Mandal under date 5th June, 
1963, and the name of Budhan Mandal under entry No. 2346 under date 8th June . 
1983, and also the name of Budhan Mandal under entry No. 2495 under date 5th . 
June , 1983, were written by Gangadhiar Majumdar. Trainee compounder ,on being 
complled by Dr. Hazra on the way to do so as supported by Shri Muslim Mia . 
On looking at the Register , however, it will appear that under entr y No. 2346 , 
assuming the name of Budhan Mandal was written under pressure by the traince 
compounder , hut what about the initial in the last column against that entry " 


3594 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / P .JUSA 3 . 1853 (Part II 
= 

- - - - 

— -- - = 
which appears to be similar to the other initials above and below them which 
the management admitted were of Dhanapati Dutta , compounder. It is not the 
case of trainec compounder that he was also pressed and forced to forge the initial 
ot the compounder; that is also not the case of Muslim Mia , how then does this 
initial of the coinpounder which is not denied hy him come between his earüer 
und subscquent initials against entry No. 2346 . There is no explanation on behalf 
of the management. Then again , on examining the Registe : Ext. M - 30 further it 
appears that there is not one but there are several entries which appear to have 
been inserted or written later on and not in the ordinary course as they appcar 
to be, for instance , under Şi, No . 2343 under date 8th June, 1963, there is one 
name Dilu Mahato or something written by another ink without filling in the 
other columns . The writer of this appears to be also the writer of the name under , 
Sl. No. 2330 of Lutan and under Sl. No 2352 of Babulal. Under date 7th June , 
1963, the name of Dibi Mahato has been written under Sl. No. 2463 without filling 
in the other columns. Likewise , the name of Ramdeo under Sl. No. 2465 and 
Abdul Mia under Şi, No. 2470 , which are signed by the compounder . There arc 
several such writings through , out the Register which show that whenever there 
was necessity of entering new names they were entered in the blank space by the 
compounder . For these reasons, in my opinion this sick Register Ext. M - 30 does 
not inspire any confidence , and if this gocy , there is absolutely no reliable evidence 
on which Dr. Huzra can be said to be guilty of any misconduct. 


9. It is not denied by the management that Dr. Hazra was in the service of 
the company for the last about fourteen years and during this period not a singlo 
chargesheet was issued against him and , therefore, simply saying that orally he 
was told is not enough and sufficient to find him guilty of any such misconduct. 
It is a very serious offence for a Doctor to forge or to get forged the medical 
register and to show a man sick although he is not sick because if his nvisconduct 
is proved his name would be struck off by the Indian Medical Association and , 
therefore , such a charge should not be lightly levelled against a Doctor . It is 
very easy to get statements under pressure from persons, like Budhian Mandal, or , 
Muslim Mia , or the like, and , therefore , no reliance can he placed on their eyidence 
in the absence of documentary evidence , 


10. It is really surprising as to why in the chargesheet it is not mentioned as 
to what particular standing order has been contravened by thc workman for which 
he may be held to be guilty . It is not said by the managernent that it has no 
certifed standing orders of its own . If it had sai ? so th : model standing orders 
could have been applied to it but curiously cnough , as rightly pointed out in the 
written statement of the union , no where it is stated under what specific clarise 
of the Standing Orders in terms of which he had committed an offence . Obvious 
ly therefore it has to be held in the ab . ence of evidence on behalf of the manage 
ment that his serviccy have been terminated not ini terins of the Standing Orders 


11 For the reasons given above, therefore, I hold that the management of 
Industry /West Ena Colliery of M / s . East Industry Colliery Co. ( P ) Ltd ., was tiot 
justifed in terminating the services of Dr. M . Hazra , Medical Officer of the Col 
liery , by the letter dated 11th Nurember, 1963, Ext . M - 10 - Exi. M - 22 , and there 
fore the said order of the company terminating his services is set aside and the 
concerned workman Dr. M . Hazra is reinstated with effect from 11th November , 
1953, to his former post with full bark wages and other emoluments to which 
he may be entitled with continuity of service . 


12 This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act . 


Sa . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 


[No. 2 / 8 / 64 -LRII. ] 


New Delhi, the 15th December 1968 
S . O 3927.- In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanhad , in the industrial dispuis between the employers 
in relation to the Digwadih Colliery of Messrs Tata Iron und Steel Company 


Sec. 8( li)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 21, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


3595 


Limited , Jamadoba, Post Office Jealgora ( District Dhanbad ) and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 8th December , 1968 . 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

In the matter of an industrial dispute under Sec . 10 ( 1) (d ) of The Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 , 

REFERENCE No, 195 Or 1965 
Employers in relation to the Digwadih Collicry of Messrs Tata Iron & 
Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba . Post Office Jealgora (Dhanbad ) 

t s 
Their Workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad , Presiding Officer , 
For the Employers — None. 

For the Workmen - None. 
STATE : Blhar. 

INDUSTRY ; Coal. 
CAMP: C - 21, Hauz Khus, New Delhi - 16 
Dated, the 19th Novermber , 1966 

AWARD 
By its Order No. 2 /117 / 65 -LRII dated 27th November 1965 , the Government of 
India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, New Delhi, referred to this Tribunal 
for adjudication under Sec . 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 , an 
industrial dispute existing between the employers in relation to the Digwadih 
Colliery of M / s . Tata Iron & Strel Co . Ltd ., Jamadoba, P . O . Jealgora , (Dhanbad ) 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the schedule annexed to 
the order of reference which is reproduced below : 

SCHEDULE 
“ Whether the refusal of the management of the Digwadih Colliery in plac 

ing Shri Jagdish Singh . Munshi, in the grade of Rs. 60 - 5 - 100 with 
effect from the 23rd July , 1959 is justified ? If not, to what relief is 

the workman entitled ? " 
2. On 15th November 1966 both the parties fled a joint petition of compromise 
dated 10th November 1966 signed by the Chief Mining Engineer on hehalf of the 
Employers and by the Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , on behalf of the con 
corned workman and the union and attested by two witnesses stating therein the 
terms of the agreement and jointly prayed that an award in terms of the said 
compromise which is marked Annerure A be made . 

3 . I have read the terms of the compromise and, in my opinion , they are fair 
and in the interest of both parties, and, therefore , the compromise is accepted and 
recorded . 

4 . That accordingly the refercnce is disposed of in terms of the compromise 
and an award is made in terms of the compromise Annexure A and the said 
compromise Annexure A shall form a part of the said award . 

5 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Scc. 15 of the Act . 

( Sd .) RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer . 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad . 
BEFORE THE PRESIDING OFFICER . CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , DHANBAD 

- REF . No, 195 OF 1965 
F ARTIES : 
Sri Jagdish Singh , Munshi, Digwadih Colliery . 

V . 
Enıployers in relation to Digwadih Colliery of M / s. Tata Iron & Steel Co . 
Lid ., Jamarioba, Jcalgora P . O . 


2596 HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1848 [PART 11 

- - - - - - - - -- = - = 
The parties mentioned above jointly submit that they have further discussed . 
the matter and settled the dispute by mutual negotiation . The terms of the com 
promise are as follows: -- 

( 1 ) Sri Jagdish Singh , Munshi, will be upgraded to Gr. II Clerk with effect 
from the date from which he has been Alling both sides of the prescribed form . 
and submitting it in time, viz . 25th March 1963. 

( 2 ) This is being done as a special gesture and will not be taken as a prece 
dent. 
The parties mentioned above jointly pray that the Hon ble Tribunal may be 

pleased to make an Award according to the terms of the compromise 
mentioned above . 

( Sd .) Illegible. 
Chief Mining Engincer, 

For Employers . 
The Tata Iron & Stcel Co. Ltd... 

(Sd. ) Illegible . 

Secretary , 
Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , 

For Union . 
Dated : 10 - 11 -86 . 
Witnesses : 
1 . (Sd.) Illegible . 
2 . ( Sd .) Illegible . 

[No. 2 / 117 / 65 - LRII . } 


$ . 0 . 3928.- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the East Bhaggatdih Colliery of Messrs East Bhaggatdih Colliery Com 
pany (Private ) Limited , Post Office Jharla ( Dhanbad ) , and their workmen , 
which was received by the Central Government on the 8th December , 1966 . 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , 

DHANBAD 
In the matter of an industrial dispute under Sec. 10 ( 1 ) (d ) of The Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 . 

REFERENCE No. 34 of 1964 
Employers in relation to the East Bhaggatdih Colliery of Messrs East Bhag 

gatdih Colliery Company ( Private ) Limited , P . O . Jharia , ( Dhanbad ) 


Vs. 


Their Workmen . 
PRESENT : 

Shri Raj Kishore Prasad, Prosiding Officer , 
For the Employers - Shri K , V . Ayyar, Group Welfare Officer of the Com 

pany , 
For the Workmen - Shri S . K . Rai, Secretary , Khan Mazdoor Congress, 

Jharia , 
STATE : Bihar, 

INDUSTRY ; Coal 
CAMP: Patna , dated the 19th October , 1966 

AWARD 
By its order No. 8 / 181 /63 - LRII, dated 26th March , 1964 , the Government of 
India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, referred under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of 
The Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, to this Tribunal for adjudication , an industrial 
dispute existing between the employers in relation to the East Bhaggatdih Col 
llery of Messrs East Bhaggatdih Colliery Company ( Private Limited , P . O . 


SEC . 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


3597 


- - - 


- 


Jharia , ( Dhanbad ) and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the 
schedule annexed to the said order of reference which is reproduced below : 


SCHEDULE 
" Whether the dismissal of Shri Prabhu Gararia , Coal cutter of East Bhag 

gatdih Colliery with effect from the 22nd June, 1963 by the manage 
ment of East Bhaggatdih Colliery Company ( Private ) Limited is 

justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? " 
2 . On 20th May 1964 the company filed its written statement in which it was 
said that on a written complaint dated 25th May 1963 from Lugan Manjhi, who 
was assaulted by the concerned workman and another , a chargeshect was issued 
and thereafter a departmental enquiry was held at which witnesses were exa 
mined on behalf of the company as well as on behalf of the accused and at the 
said enquiry the concerned workman was found guilty of the charge, and, there 
after , for proved misconduct he was dismissed with effect from 22nd June 1963 
and as such he was not entitled to any relief, 

3 . On 6th July 1964 a written statement of the concerned workman was also 
filed by the General Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Sangh in which it was alleged 
that the fact that Lugan Manjhi was in the habit of taking bribe for giving good 
working face was in the knowledge of the company and due to the adverse atti 
tude of the company towards the concerned workman , Lugan was giving much 
trouble to the concerned workman by not giving him proper consideration in 
respect of his working faces so much so that evert ll! 24th May 1963 he was not 
allotted any working face at all because the concerned workman was not pre 
pared to oblige him by bribe; that out side the mine an altercation took place on 
25th May 1963 between Lugan Manjhi and the concerned workman due to their 
old quartel in course of which Lugan Manjhi gave a cut with his teeth on the 
concerned workman which matter was immediately reported to the management 
but to no effect ; the management with a malafide motive issued charges on ima 
ginary grounds and even out side the complaint of Lugan Manjhi to which the 
concerned workman gave a reply denying all the charges but an enquiry was 
instituted against him and at the said enquiry principles of natural justice were 
thrown to the winds for the reasons given in paragraph 12 of the written state 
ment; that the defence witnesses were examined including the concerned work 
man but they were not at all cross -examined by Lugan Manjhi and in spite of 
that their evidence was rejected by the Enquiry Officer who reported guilty against 
the concerned workman ; that , therefore, the enquiry was vitiated and should be set 
aside and the dismissal of the workman set aside and he should be reinstated 
with full back wages with effect from 22nd March 1963 , 

4 . The case was taken up for hearing on 10th October , 1966 , and at thc hearing 
Shri K . V . Ayyar, Group Welfare Ofcer of the Company represented the manage 
ment and Shri S . K . Rai, Sercreta y , Khan Mazdoor Congress Branch , appeared 
for the concerned workman . Both the parties filed documents , which with mutual 
consent, were taken in cvidence and marked exhibits for the parties . Documents 
filed by the management were marked Exts . M . to M . 17 and those filed by the 
union were marked Ects . W . and W . 1. Buth the parties examined one witness 
each . The management examined M . W . 1 Shri Bisheswar Nath , Enquiry Officer , 
and the workman examined W . W . 1 , Shri Prabhu Gararia , the concerned work 
man . After arguments were heard , award was reserved . 

15 The material facts of the case may shortly be stated in their chronological 
order as be ow ; 
25 - 5 - 1963 . - Lugan Manjhi made a written complaint to the Manager of the 

Colliery Ext. M . complaining against Prabhu Gararia , the concerned 
workman , and Kalu Pasi saying that they " attacked him at a time 
and assaulted him indiscriminately in presence of so many workers 

of the 1st shift reported at the pit mouth for duty ." 
25- 5 - 1963. - A chargesheet Ext. M . 1 was issued to Prabhu Gararla in which 

it was said that he along with Kalu Pasi " picked up a quarrel with 
him (Lugan Manjhi) , behaved with him in a fighting and riotous 
manner and assaulted him (Lugan Manjhi) , near the Rest Shed at 

at No. 2 Pit." 
12 - 6 - 1963 , Prabhu Gararia submitted his explanation Ext. M . 2 denying 

the allegation and saying that Iugan Manjhi demanded gratification 
from him about which he had reported to the Manager and ne never 
assaulted Lugan Manjhi, and the charge is framed only to harass and 
victimise him . 


25-5-1968. En 


and Kalbu nediscrimine toi 


3598 THE GAATTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1968 / PAUSA 3, 1896 


[PART II 


17 - 6 - 1963. - A joint enquiry was held into the charge sheets against both 

Kalu Passi and Prabhu Gararla by Shri Bigheshwar Nath , M . W . 1 
Welfare Offcer, and at the said cnquiry on 17th June , 1963, Lugar 
Manjhi, Mining Sirdar of No. 2 Pit Ert . M - 3 was examined and cross 

examined only by Kalu Passi, 
18 - 6 - 1963. — On this date the Enquiry Officer recorded the statements , on 

behalf of the company, of Bishun Duşadh , Tyndal Mazdoor Ext. M - 4 ; 
R , N . Sarkar , Overman - in - Charge , Ext. M - 5 ; Ravindra Pandey . Ext 
M -6 ; and of the concerned workman , Prabhu Gararia , Pick Miner 
No, 2 Pit , Ext. M - 7 and of the other accused Kalu Passi, Pick Miner , 
No. 2 Pit Ert. M , 8 and also of the defence witnesses cf the two 
accused , namely , Chhotak Bhar, Pick Miner No. 2 Pit Ext. M . 9 ; Maha 
Tani Din Pandey , Coal Cutter No. 2 Pit Ext. M , 10 ; Ramichelawan 
Kurmi, Coal Cutter No. 2 Pit Ext. M . 11 and Shyamlal Thakur, Water 

Mazdoor Ext. M . 12 . 
20 - 6 - 1963. — As a result of the cnquiry held on 17th June, 1963, and 18th 

June, 1963, the Enquiry Oficer M . W . 1 submitted his report Ext. M , 
14 against Prabhu Gararia and Kalu Passi holding Prabhu Gararia 
guilty of the charges and recommending that he should be dismissed 
and Anding Kalu Passi to be an associate of Prabhu Gararia " though 
he did not take the main part in assault" and therefore , he recom 
mended that a lenient view should be taken against him and award 
ed a lesser punishment which he think would be that his period of 

suspension should be without wages and any benefits. 
21 - 6 - 1963, — The Director informed the Manager by a letter Ext. M . 17 that 

he accorded his approval to the dismissal of Prabhu Gararia for 

assaulting Lugan Manjhi, 
2 - 6 - 1963. — The Manager informed by a letter Ext . M . 13 Prabhu Gararia . 

the concerned workman , that after the evidence the management 
have decided to award him punishment of dismissal from service, and , 

therefore he was dismissed from service , 
2 - 4 - 1964. — The present reference was received from the Ministry . 
6. The original enquiry papers are also on the record and are marked Exts. M . 3 
to M . 12 , which are also the cxhibit markes of the typed truc copics thereof . 

7 . I have very carefully considered the arguments presented by both sides and 
to me it appears that the infirmities pointed out on behalf of the wo kman , which 
I will deal in detail hercinafter , are such that they cannot be ignored and in view 
of these infirmițies I am unable to uphold the domestic enquiry to be fair and 
proper and in accordance with the principle of natural justice , I will now pro 
ceed to consider the several infirmities one by one, 

8 . Joint- Enquiry . — The joint enquiry has very much prejudiced , in my opinion , 
Prabhu Gararia and this will be obvious from the fact that although the evidence 
against both Prabhu Gararia and Kalu Passi is equally balanced , still the 
Enquiry Officer , as rightly alleged in para 14 of the written statement by the 
union , " from a preconceived notion came to a perverse finding of guilt against 
Shri Gararia " , and , found Kalu Passi only an associate of Prabhu Gararia as the 
Enquiry Officer said " he did not take the main part in assault " . This finding is 
obviously perverse and against the evidence as rightly contended on talalf of the 
workman . As against Prabhu Gararin the witnesses who speak that he assulted 
Lugan Manjhi are Lugan Manjhi himself Ett, M . 3 ; and Bishun Duşadh , Frt. M . 4 
whereas, as against Kalu Passt the witnesses who say that he also assaulted 
Lugan Manjhi are Ligan Manjhi himself, Ext. M . 3 ; Bishun Dusadh Ext. M 4 and 
R . N . Sarkar. Ert. M . 5 . We, therefore , find that if we leave out the complainant, 
there are two witnesses , namely , Bishun Dusadh Ext. M . 4 and R . N , Sarkar, Over 
man - in -charge Ert. M , 5 who specifically stated that Kalu Passi was assaulting Lu 
gan Manjhi. In case of Prabhu Gararia if we leave out Lugan Manjhi the complai 
nant, the only witness left is Bishun Dusadh Ext. M . 4 . It may be mentioned that 
R . N . Sarkar Ert . M . 5 Is Overman - in - charge and he does not state that Prabhu Gara 
ria assaulted Lugan Manjhi but he does state as just now mentioned that Kalu 
Passi assulted Lugan Manjhi, Inspite of this overwhelming and reliable evidence 
of two independent witnesses namely , Bishun Dusadh , Ert, M . 4 and R , N . Sirkar , 
Ext. M 5 against Kalu Passi it is surprising that the Enquiry Omcer in his report 
Ert, M . 14 says in the last paragraph of his report that " Evidence and circumstan 
ces against Shri Kalu Passt have proved and established that he was an associate 
of Prabhu Gararia although he did not take main part in assult , therefore , in his 
case I would recommended the management to take lessor punishment which I 


Sec. 3 (11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / RAUSA 3 , 1888 3599 
— 
think would be that his period of supension should be without wages and without 
benefit," and inspite of only one independent witness , namely , Bishun Dusadh 
Ext. M . 4 , the Enquiry Officer finds Prabhu Gararia guilty deserving of dismissal . 
I have no doubt in my mind that the Enquiry Officer was prejudiced against Pra 
bhu Gararla as rightly mentioned in para 14 of the written statement by the union , 
and therefore , returned a verdict of guilty against Gararia and of not guilty against 
Kalu which on the evidence he could not have. For these reasons, I am of the opi 
nion that the joint enquiry has very much prejudiced the concerned workman be 
cause it appears the Enquiry Oficer has taken the view that one of the twomust be 
held guilty and he found Gararia guilty , as probably he was more prominent. For 
these reasons, therefore, there is a clear bias on the part of the Enquiry Officer . 
In this evidence M . W . 1 , the Enguiry Officer has stated that by mentioning in his 
enquiry rcport Ext. M , 14 that Kalu Passi did not take main part in the assult 
what he meant was that he did not assault Lugan Manjhi. To this Enquiry Oncer , 
the Tribunal put the statements of the company s witnesses to point out as to how 
he justified the statement that Kalu Passi did not assault Shri Lugan Manjhi and 
after reading the statements of all the witnesses of the company Exts . M . 3 to M , 6 
he admitted that as against Prabhu Gararia two witnesses , namely , Lugan Manjhi, 
the complainant, Ext . M - 3 and Bishun Dusad Ext. M - 4 stated that he assaulted 
Lugan Manjhi, whercas , as aginst Kalu Passi three witnesses , namely , I ugan 
Manjhi, the complainant, Ext, M - 3 , Bishun Dusadh Ert . M . 4 and R . N . Sarkar 
Ert. M . 5 stated that Kalu Passi assaulted Lugan Manjhi. In his enquiryy report 
he said that Prabhu Gararia should be dismissed and Kalu Passi should be treated 
leniently . He however later said that he took the case of Prabhu more serious 
because of the evidence of Bishun Dusadh Ert. M . 4 who has nothing to do under 
ground but he admitted that Overman - in -Charge was superior to Tyndal Mazdoor 
which Bishun Dusadh was. From his evidence , therefore, also it is clear that the 
Enquiry Officer was prejudiced against Gararia . Reading, therefore, his report 
along with the evidence in court, there can be no doubt that the report is biased 
and, therefore , it cannot be accepted as fair and proper , 


9 . On looking into the original statements of the three witnesses of the com 
pany Erts . M . 3 to M . 5 it appears that the thumb impression or signature of 
Prabhu Gararia , was not taken on any of them to show that these depositions 
were taken in his presence and recorded in his presence and concluded at the 
place below where his signatures or thumb impressions appeared. This specific 
allegation was made in para 12 of the written statement by the union . On ques 
tion being asked by the Tribunal thc Enquiry Officer M . W . 1 stated in his cross 
examination that he maintained a file for each enquiry separately in which he 
noted down the day to day proceedings of the enquiry as to what happended on 
a particular day and which witness was examined and what action was taken by 
him and he admitted that he had got the file of those cases but he could not pro 
duce it . He further admitted that the fact that he gave an opportunity to cross 
examine the witness of the company but he refused is not noted any where in 
the enquiry proceedings. He was working in the collicry since 1st November , 
1959, and since 1959 he was holding enquiry into complainants and since then he 
said that he has held twenty - five or thirty enquiries and still it was surprising 
that he did not know that he should have taken the signatures or thumb impres 
sions of the accused before him at the end of the deposition of each witness to 
stop him from taking any objection . This is also wanting . 


10 . Another important fact to be noticed is that although tour defence witnes 
ses were examined , namely . Exts. M - 9 , M - 10 , M - 11 and M - 12 and none of them 
were cross - examined by the complainant and still their statements were not 
referred by the Enquiry Officer for no rcason whatsoever. Only in the last but 
one paragraph of his report he has said that “ Onc important point to be noted in 
the evidence of the workmen and their witnesses is that Shri Lugan Manjhi is 
alleged to have beaten Prabhu Gararia . This fact itselt is a proof of assault by 
Shri Lugan Manjhi, Biting with teeth is the weapon of a person who is helpless 
and at bay." He does not consider the evidence of DWS nor does he say that 
he rejects their evidence. He has not discussed the evidence of the defence witnes 
ses nor given any reason as to why thc un - challenged evidence of the defence 
witnesses should not be acted upon in the circumstances. For the above reasons, 
in my opinion , the domestic cnguiry was not fair and proper and in accordance 
with the principles of natural justice, and , therefore it must be rejected , 


11. As no independent cvidence has been adduced before the Tribunal on the 
evidence at the domestic engquiry , it is impossible to come to a finding that the 
misconduct of the concerned workman has been cstablished . In the circumstances, 
his dismissal must be set aside. 


3600 IHR GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1848 


[PART II 


12 . I may observe that the punishment of dismissal inflicted on Prabhu Gararia 
is disproportionate and must arbitrary and discriminatory as compared with that 
of Kalu Passi when there were two independent witnesses proving assault by 
Kalu Passi on Lugan Manjhi and there was only one independent witness of 
assault by Gararia on Lugan eliminating the complainant in both cases . I cannot 
understand why Kalu Passi should be given only suspension without wages and 
this man should be given only dismissal. It does not stand to reason and it can 
not be justified on any account. It is most unfair and shocking to conscience , It 
only shows that the management was determined any how to get rid of him 
because probably of the strike, as appears from Ext. M - 16 , and , therefore , he was. 
dismissed , whereas Kalu Passi against whom there was equal evidence , rather the 
evidence was more and also more reliable , he was given only lesser punishment 
of suspension . For these reasons, also the punishment of dismissal must be set 
aside . 

13 . In either view the dismissal is set aside and he is reinstated to his previous 
job as coal cutter at No. 2 Pit of the Colliery of the management with effect from 
22nd June, 1963 , since when he was dismissed as per letter Ext. 11. 13 with full 
back wages and other monetary benefits to which he is entitled . 

14 . This is the award which I make and submit to the Central Government 
under Section 15 of the Act . 

Sd . / - RAJ KISHORE PRASAD , 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal . 

Dhanbad , 

[No. 8 / 181 /63 -LRII. ) 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 
S . O . 3929 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, No . 2 , Calcutta , in the Industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Ningha Colliery , (Post Onice Kallpahari , Burdwan ), and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 13th 
December , 1966 . 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO . 2 CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 43 OF 1966 
PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to the Ningha Colliery , P .O . Kalipahari. 

AND 
Their workmeni. 
PRESENT : 

Shri S . K , Sen - -Presiding Officer, 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 
AWARD 


vunar Burdwan and their workmen arising ston 


By order No . 6 / 88 / 65-LR . II dated 23rd July 1965, the Government of India . 
referred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the Ningha Colllery , P . O . Kallpahari, Burdwan and their workmen arising from 
the dismissal of one workman named Shri Ramgrihi Ram , Winding Engine Oil 
Mazdoor of Ningha Colliery . 

2 . After the issue of notices to both parties to file their written statements , the 
management and union have fled a joint petition stating that the dispute arising 
from the dismissal of the workman Ramgrihi Ram has been amicably settled ; and 
that the dismissed workman has been re -employed by the management with effect 
from 26th July 1985 , l. e . from only 3 days after the date of order of reference by 
the Government. This reference case is, therefore , disposed of in terms of the 
Joint petition of compromise which shall form part of the award . 
Let this award be sent to the Government for necessary action . 

(80.) S . K . SIN , 
Dated ; 9th December 1966 . 

Presiding Omcer . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


1 


- 


Sec . ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 3601 

= 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO . 2 

CALCUTTA 

REFERRED No . 43 OF 1966 
Industrial dispute. 

BETWEEN 
Employers in relation to Ningah Colliery , P .O . Kalipahari, Dist. Burdwan . 

AND 
Their workmen represented by the colliery Mazdoor Congress, Gorai Mansion , 
G . T . Road, Asansol, Burdwan . 

The humble petition of the Company and the Union most respectfully 
sheweth : 

1 . That the above dispute is now pending before this Hon ble Tribunal and 
both the Union and the Company was directed by this hon ble Tribunal to fille 
their respective Written statement. 

2 . That the parties immediately after the conclusion of the conciliation proceed 
ings in this dispute and before the above order of Reference was made by the 
Government of India , came to an amicable settlement as follows: 
( a ) That the workmen Shri Ram Grihi Ram will be allowed to work on and 

from 26th July 1965 in the Employer s Ningah colliery i. e . Sripur 
Nos . 4 , 5 & 6 pits colliery of M / s . Lodna Colliery Co . ( 1920 ) Ltd . as a 
changemen in the Lamp Cabin on the surface without any adverge 
change in his wages and emoluments which he was earning as a 

Winding Engine Oil Mazdoor , 
(b ) That the period of non - employment of Ram Grihi Ram on and from 

16th February 1965 to 25th July 1965 will be treated as if he was laid 

off and would be paid laid -off compensation , 
3. That in terms of the above settlement, Sri Ram Grihi Rom is working from 
28th July 1965 and also received Rs. 205 / 80 P . on 3rd December 1965 as his lay -off 
compensation , 

4 . It is, therefore, submitted that a No- Dispute award may be made by this 
hon ble Tribunal. 

And for this act of kindness your petitioner 
are in duty bound shall ever pray. 

( Sd .) Illegible, 
( Sd.) Illegible , 

Signature of the Union Secretary of 

Colllery Mazdoor Congress , 
Signature of the Employer 

" Gorai Mansion " 
Manager, 

G . T . Road , Asansol, 

( NO , 6 / 88 / 65 -LRII. ] 
S . O . 3930 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, No . 2 , Calcutta , in the Industrial dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company Limited , (Manag 
ing Agents : Andrew Yule & Company, Limited , Registered Office 8 Clive Row , 
Calcutta - 1 ), Post Omce Dishergarh , District Burdwan , and their workmen , which 
was received by the Central Government on the 13th December, 1966 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL NO . 2 , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No . 7 OF 1986 
PARTIES : 

Employers in relation to the Messrs Katras Jherrlah Coal Company Limited , 
Their workmen represented by the Colliery Mazdoor Union , 27, G . T . Road , 

Bastin Bazar, Asansol. 
PRESENT: 

Shri S , K . Sen - Presiding Officer. 
APPEARANCES : 
On behalf of employers - Shri P . P . Ginwalla , Bar - at-Law , Shri D . Narsingh , 

Advocate , Shri A . Choudhuri. 
On behalf of workmen - Shri N . R . Roy , Shri Keshab Banerjee. 
STATE : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines, 


Indu1947, 930. 


AND 


3602 IM 


GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA . 1838 


[Parr 11 


AWARD 


By Order No . 8 / 175 / 64 -LRII dated 27th January 1965 a dispute between the 
management of the Seebpur colliery of Messrs Katras Jherriah Coal Company 
Limited managed by Messrs Andrew Yule & Company, Limited , and its workmen 
represented by the General Secretary , Colliery Mazdoor Union , Asansol, was 
referred to the Tribunal for adjudication . The subject matter of the dispute con 
tained in the terms of reference settled between the parties are as follows : 
" 1 . Whether the closure of Seebpur Colliery of M / s . Katras Jharia Coal Co. 

Ltd., is justified and if so , Is It due to the circumstances beyond the 

control of the management ? 
2 . What relief in either of the case each workman is entitled to ?" 


The Seebpur colliery belonging to Messrs Katras Jherrlah Coal Company Limit 
ed consisted of two inclines and 2 quarries. One of the inclines was known as the 
K incline and coal of Koithi seam was mined therein , and the other Inclinę known 
as the P incline and coal of the Ponlati seam was mined therein , 

2 . Witness No. 1 for the management, Shri W . N . Batra , Mining Engineer , who 
was acting as the Agent of Seebpur coillery , said that the distance between the 
two inclines is about 2000 ft.; that between the K incline and K grip quarry is 
about 500 ft.; that between the K Incline and Bank Simulia quarry is about 5000 ft . 
and between P incline and Bank Simulia quarry is about 4000 ft . These distances 
roughly agree with the distances given by the only witness on behalf of the union , 
namely Bipin Behari Singh who said that the quarry is at the distance of 500 or 
600 ft . from the K incline and that the other incline is at the distance of about 
half a mile from the K incline and that Bank Simulla quarry is at the distance of 
about one mile from K incline. 

3 . Working of the Kincline was closed down on 26th October, 1964 and that 
of the P incline on 28th October , 1964 and the workers of the two inclines were 
laid off . The working in the two quarries continued for 8 or 9 months more but 
in July 1965 the quarries also were closed down. We are in this case concerned 
with the workmen of the K incline and the P incline and not concerned with 
the workmen of the two quarries . The number of workmen concerned in the 
two inclines who were laid oft is 437. They were paid compensation under Section 
25FFF , Sub -section ( 1 ) , proviso , which provides that where an undertaking is 
closed down for any reason whatsoever , any workman who has been in continu 
ous service for not less than one year in that undertaking immediately 
before such closure shall be entitled to notice and compensation in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 25F , as if the workman had 
been retrenched ; provided that where the undertaking is closed on account of 
unavoidable circumstances beyond the control of the employers, the compensa 
tion to be paid to the workman under clause ( b ) of Section 25F shall not exceed 
the average pay for 3 months . The management, holding that the two inclines 
had been closed down on account of unavoidable circumstances beyond their 
control, paid compensation accordingly , that is, one month s notice pay and 3 
months average pay as compensation . The workmen claimed that as Seebpur 
colliery consisted of two inclincs and two quarries , and two quarries were stilt 
working when the two inclines were closed down , it was not a closure of the 
undertaking as a whole and that they were retrenched under the provision of 
Section 25F and they are, therefore, entitled to compensation under provision 
of Section 25F or the Industrial Disputes Act. This could make a considerable 
difference in the compensation ; for instance the workman examined as the witness 
on behalf of the union namely , Bipin Behari Singh , said that he had been in 
continuous service in Seebpur collicry for 20 years ; therefore under Sec . 25F 
clause (b ) he was entitled to receive 10 months compensation instead of 3 
months compensation under the proviso of Sub - section ( 1) of Section 25FFF , 
There was an attempt of settlement hefore the Conciliation officer of the dispute 
between the workmen and the employers, but the only settlement they arrived 
at was that the matter be referred to a Tribunal with the prescribed terms of 
reference already quoted above, 

4 . There was a preliminary objection raised on behalf of the employers that 
the Tribunal has no jurisdiction because the undertaking has been altogether 
closed down . This preliminary objection was heard by Shri L . P . Dave who 
by his order dated 19th March , 1966 over - ruled the preliminary objection . In 
addition to the reasons given by Shri Daye, I may state that since the addition 
to the Industrial Disputes Act of Şec. 25FFF , and of a new 3rd schedule of which 
item 10 specifically mentions closure of an establishment as a matter within the 
Jurisdiction of Industrial Tribunal, an objection to jurisdiction on the ground of 


Szc. 8 (il)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8 , 1888 


3603 


a bonafide closure can no longer be entertained . The reference nas , therefore , 
now to be decided on merits , 


5 . The first question is whether the closure of the two inclines was justified 
and whether it was due to circumstances beyond the control of the management. 
On this point, witness No. 1 for the management W . N . Batra , the Agent, hag 
stated that the K incline had to be closed down due to underground fre and that 
the P incline had to be closed down due to immediate threat of inundation . He 
added that on getting a report from the Manager he went underground into the 
K incline to ascertain whether the danger was there and he conflmed that there 
was danger of fire and that it was not possible to keep anyone at work there . He 
informed the department of mines and the K incline was thereafter sea ed off 
completely under instructions of the department of Mines by building stopping 
walls of brick and cement. This evidence is fully borne out by the evidence of 
witness No. 2 for the management, Shri P . R . Sharma, under Manager who was 
acting as Manager of Seebpur collery at the time of the closure. Even the 
witness for the union , Shri Bipin Behari Singh , admitted in cross examination 
that because of collection of dangerous gaş it became impossible to continue 
work in the K incline. 


6 . As regards the P incline, the agent W . N . Batra stated that on 27th Oct . 64 
he went down the P incline and in his opinion there was serious danger of water 
suddenly filling up the incline and so he directed the Manager not to employ 
men there because of the danger of the Inundation . He said that this also was 
reported to the department of Mines and that within 3 days of the closure of 
the P incline on 28th October , 1964 , that incline was wholly flooded by water , 
He further explained that P incline was surrounded by water logged areas 
consisting of old workings and that the management had to take special per 
mission frorn the department of Mines to work in P incline, and that after the 
submission of the report regarding threat of inundation the departinent of Mines 
withdrew the permission to work in the P incline. This evidence as to inundation 
of the P incline was fully corroborated by P . R . Sharma, the acting Manager 
at the time of the closure . This witness proved 3 reports as to water level, Ext . 
A . Al and A2, showing that the water level was gradually rising and he said 
that if the water levels in the old working were higher than levels at which 
work was going in the P . incline there would be danger of flooding and that 
there was such danger of inundation by leakage through a barrier of coal between 
the old workings and the area where work was going on in the P incline. Bipin 
Behari Singh examined for the union was a worker of the K incline and he 
agreed that the P incline had to be closed down because of collection of water 
and subsidence of roads within the incline, but he did not see whether P incline 
was completely flooded shortly after the closure of work , apparently because 
he had no occasion to go therc . In view of the evidence discussed , there can 
be no doubt that the closure of the two inclines was justified and furiher that it 
was due to circumstances beyond the control of the management . 


7 . The nixt question is about relief that each workman is entitled to . If 
there was closure of the undertaking, than Sec . 25FFF would apply and the 
compensation already given by the management would be appropriate . Shri 
N . R . Roy appearing on behalf of the union has. however, urged that the closure 
of the two Inclines should not be taken as equivalent to a closure of an under 
taking, aş according to him the undertaking is the entire Sccbpur colliery , 
which was under one management, and which consisted of 2 inclines as well as 
2 quarries in which work went on for another 8 or 9 months. Shri Roy has , 
thereforc , urged that the 437 workmen should be deemed to have been retrenched 
and are entitled to compensation under Section 25F , Shri Ginwalla , appearing 
on behalf of the management, has urged that each incline and each quarry com 
prised a separate mine and a separate undertaking , and that the management 
was correct in applying Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act . Parties 
have referred to certain decisions in support of their respective arguments . But 
the decisions are not quite apposite . In AIR 1960 SC 815 ( Tea District Labour 
Association , Calcutta , V . Ex - employces ) , the facts briefly are that the Tea 
District Association maintained certain agencies at different places in India for 
supplying labour to the Tea gardens, but as the necessity for such recruitment 
lessened two of the recruiting stations or agencies, at Koraput and Gunjam , were 
closed down. The Supreme Court held that the closure of the two agencies must 
be decmed to be closure within the meaning of Section 25FFF . In that case the 
company had already given compensation as for retrenchment; although the appeal 
succecded the company did not ask for refund of any amount back from the 
employees . The case however has been cited by Shri Ginwalla to show that 
different agencies at different stations, although under the control of the same 


3004 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


(Part II - 


association or company for recruiting labour, were regarded as separate undertak 
ings . A similar case cited by Shri Ginwaila is 1982 ( I ) LLJ 409 ( Indian Cable 
Company Limited V . Its Workinen ) . In that case alşo the company was carrying on 
business at various places in India and decided to close down one of its branches 
and the workmen employed at that branch were paid off . The Supreme Court held 
that the conclusion was inescapable that each branch of a company would 
normally be regarded as a distinct industrial establishment . 

8 . As against these cases, Shri Roy relied on 1963 (2 ) LLJ 86 , (Hotel 
Ambassador V . its Workmen ) . In that case however all the workmen were 
employed at the same place and they were merely divided into certain cate 
gories or departments. In order to effect economy , the management abolished 
one department and distributed the work among employees in other departments . 
Naturally this was held to be a case of retrenchment and not closure. This case 
is hardiy analogous to the facts of the present case . It was a clear case of 
retrenchment. 

9 . The respective positions of the 2 Inclines and the 2 quarries have already 
been given above. Regulation 30 clause ( a ) of the Coal Mines Regulations 1957 
provides every system of workings belowground Inter -connected in such a manner 
that communication is practicable from any one part of the system to any other 
part by means of galleries , channels or drifts belowground shall be deemed to 
constitute one mine, If access from one system of such workings belowground 
to another such system is not practicable , each such system shall be deemed to 
constitute a separate mine. In the present case the 2 inclines and 2 quarties are 
not inter -connected and therefore under Regulations 30 ( a ) they constitute sepa 
rate mincs. It is true that they were under a common management, there being 
the game Manager, Agent and office staff for their management as the cvidence 
has shown , but the management proyed that for this purpose it had to obtain 
special permission from the department of Mines. Ext . Bis a letter of authori 
sation dt. 18th Jan , 1963 from the Chief Inspector of Mines , Dhanbad , for the 
appointment of the same Manager for more than one coal mines under Coal 
Mines Regulations 31 (4 ). This document shows that the Chief Inspector of 
Mines under Regulation 31 ( 4 ) of the Coal Mines Regulations 1957 per 
mitted that the same person might act as the Manager at the same time 
of all the mines at Seebpur colliery owned by Messrs Katras Jherriah 
Coal Company Limited , Thus the department of Mines regarded the 
inclines and the quarries as separate mines and gave special per 
mission under Regulation 31 ( 4 ) of the Coal Mines Regulations 1957 so that one 
person might act as Manager of all of them . Shri N . R . Roy has urged that since 
the office staff and the Manager were common , the establishment should also be 
regarded as one and not as 4 separate units . Shri Rov has also pointed out that 
the workmen whether employed in the inclines or in the quarries were appointed 
by the Scebpur colliery and identity cards and service cards were granted to 
them in the name of Seebpur colliery , e . g . Exhibit 1 and 1A , Shri Bipin Behari 
Singh has deposed that though he was a worker of the K incline he was occa 
sionally asked to work in the quarry . But it appears from the cross examination 
that this was an exception rather than the rule, and the workmen employed in 
each incline and each quarry were separate groups . It was only when either 
there was no work for a workman in an incline or there was shortage 
of worker in one of the quarries that one workman was occasionally 
deputed from one place to another . This sort of deputation may be done 
by the same management even from one colliery to another . This does 
not make the inclines and the quarries into one common establishment. It 18 
to be noted that though the workmen and the unlon claim the benefts of re 
trenchment under Section 25F of the Industrial Disputes Act, they did not claim 
that the provision of Section 25G should have been applied to the retrenchment. 
Section 25G provides that when any workman in an industrial establishment is 
to be retrenched and he belongs to a particular category of workmen , the 
employer shall ordinarily retrench the workman who was the last person to be 
employed in that category . Therefore , if the inclines and the quarries were 
regarded as the same undertaking, the workmen of the inclines when the inclines 
had to be closed down might claim that the senior workmen at least should be 
put to work in quarries but there was no such claim made . To a certain cxtent, 
this may be regarded as a tacit admission that so far as the working at least 19 
concerned , the inclines and the quarries were separate undertakings. Further , 
it has already been stated that after 8 or 9 months the quarries were also closed 
down . The workmen employed therein naturally received the benefits under 
25FFF of the Act and they could not claim any superior benefit because the 
complete colliery was closed down at that time. In the circumstances , it is 
reasonable to hold that even the workmen of the inclines when they were closed 
down would only get the benefits under Section 25FFF and not under Section 


SEC. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 360 


- - - - 


25F of the Industrial Disputes Act. This however is an incidental consideration . 
The main reason for my decision is that each incline and each quarry under the 
Mines Regulations 1957 is a separate mine , and so far as the workmen of the 
inclines are concerned, though they might be emp .oyed by the Secbpur colliery , 
they were separate and different groups of workmen from the workmen working 
in the quarries. Each incline and cach quarry must therefore be considered a 
separate undertaking within the meaning of section 25FFF . 

10 . I therefore hold that each workman of the incline was entitled to relief 
under Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act , which benefit appears al 
ready to have been paid out. My decision therefore is as follows: 


( i) that the closure of the 2 inclines of Seebpur colliery of Messrs Katras 

Jherriah Coal Company Limited was justified and was due to circum 

stances beyond the control of the management; and 
( li ) that each workman of the two inclines is entitled only to the beneAts 

under Section 25FFF of the Industrial Disputes Act which he appears 
already to have received . If in any case such benefit has not been 

paid , he would be entitled to receive the same. 
No order as to costs . Let this award be submitted to Government for 
necessary action . 

Sd./ S . K . SEN , 

Presiding Oncer , 
[ No. 8 / 175 / 64 -LRII. ] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1968 


S . O . 3931, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs Pure Kustore Collleries 
Limitant owners of Pure Kustore Colliery , Post Office Kusunda District Ty 
and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hercto 
annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 


SCILEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Pure Kustore Collicry of Messrs 

Pure Kustore Colllery Company Limited , Post Office Kusunda, Dis 
trict Dhanbad , in dismissing the workmen named below with effect 
from the dates mentioned against their respective names amounted 
to victimisation ? 


Name of the worker 


Designation 


Date of dismissal 


I . Shri Purnamashi Chamar 

Miner 
2 . Shri Mukhu Ahir 

- do 
3 . Shri Foudar Toli 

- do 
4 . Shri Jamuna Bhar 

- do 
5 . Shri Paltan Bhar 

-do 
6 . Shri Khedaru Bhar 

- do 
7 . Shri Haru Dhari 

Trammer 
— 
If so , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 


14 - 5 - 1964 
31 - 8 - 1964 
31- 8 - 1964 
31 - 8 - 1964 
31- 8 - 1964 
31 - 8 - 1964 
31- 8 - 1964 


- 


[ No . 2 ( 134 ) /86 -LRII .] 


2606 1FL GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3 , 1898 


[PART II 


S . O . 3932 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Golden Sinidih Colliery , 
Post Office Tundee , District Dhanbad , und their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial 
Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 


Whether Chandan Mal Jain , Managing Contractor at Golden Sinidih Col 

liery , Post Office Tundee, District Dhanbad , was justified in refusing 
employment to Shri Ram Lochan Ram , Firemnan , with effect from the 
20th July , 1966 ? 


If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 


[No. 2 / 165 / 66 - LRII. ] 


S . O . 3933 . . Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Chora Colliery No . 10 Pit 
and 1 and 2 Incline Post Office Chora , District Burdwan and their workmen in 
respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hercto annexed ; 


And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, No. 2 , Calcutta , constituted under section 7A of the said Act, 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the dismissal of Shri Muruli Pal, Line Ministry by the manage 

ment of Chora Colliery No . 10 Pit and 1 and 2 Incline, Post Office 
Chora , District Burdwan , with effect from the 7th December , 1965 , 
was justifled ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 8 / 35 /66 - LRII. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 15th December 1968 
S . O . 3934. — Whereas the Central Government, having been satisfied that the 
public interest so required had , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - clause 
(vi ) of clause (n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) 
declared by the notification of the Goyernment of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation No. S . O . 1727, dated the 6th June, 1966 , 
the banking industry carried on by a banking company as defined in clause (bb ) 
of section 2 of the said Act, to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act for a period of six months from the 29th June , 1966 ; 


the 2017 services defined oth Junstry of 


And whercas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers confcrred by the proviso to sub 
clause (vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 29th December , 1966 . 

[No, F . 1 /88 /86 -LRI. ] 


SEO. 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 /PAUSA 3, 1888 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 
$ . 0 . 3935 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ), the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Bombay in the Industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to Messrs Nathani Steel Yard , Bombay and their workmę which was received by 
the Central Government on 13th December , 1906 . 
BEFORE SHRI S . TAKI BILGRAMI, PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL 

TRIBUNAL , BOMBAY. 
REFERENCE (IT - CG ) No. 1 OF 1965 . 

BETWEEN 
Messrs. Nathani Steel Yard , Bombay 

AND 
The workmen employed under them . 

In the matter of abolition of contract system . 
APPEARANCES ; 

Dr. A . V , R , Rao with S . G : Kukadam for the company , 
Shri H . K . Sowani, Advocate , with Shri Manohar G . Kotwal, Secretary , 
Transport and Dock Workers Union , for the workmen . 

AWARD 
This is a reference under Section 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
(XIV of 1947) , made by the Government of India for adjudication of a dispute 
between Messrs . Nathani Steel Yard , Bombay and their workmen , which arises 
out of the following dispute raised by the workmen : 
( 1 ) Whether the demand of the workmen who are employed by the con 

tractors of M / s . Nathani Steel Yard , Bombay engaged in the said 
Steel Yard for work in connection with the Port, for abolition of con 

tract system is justified ? 
( 2 ) If so , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 
2 . The above dispute was first referred to Shri Salim M . Merchant and there 
after transferred under Section 7A and Section 33B ( 1 ) to Shri M . R . Meher and 
on his retirement referred to me for adjudication , 

3 . The parties have arrived at a settlement and pray for an Award in terms 
thereof. An award is made in terms of the said settlement annexed hereto and 
the reference stands disposed of. 

Sd ./ - S . TAKI BILGRAMI, 

Presiding Omcer . 

30 - 11 - 1966 
Memorandum of Settlement in respect of Reference (IT . CG ) of 1965 before 

Sri Taki S . Bilgrami, Presiding Officer , Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, 
regarding a dispute between Messrs . Nathani Steel Yard and the work 
men engaged by the Contractor represented by the Transport and Dock 
Workers Union , Bombay , regarding the abolition of the contract 
system . 


On 2nd January 1963, the Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay , raised 
certain demands on behalf of some workers engaged by the Contractors Rama 
chandra for doing the work of loading and unloading of Nathani Steel Yard , Bombay , 
After the failure of the mutual negotiations, the Union referred the matter to the 
intervention of the Regional Labour Commissioner , Bombay , but as it waş found 
that these workers were engaged by the contractors and not by the Nathani Steel 
Yard , the dispute was not admitted in Conciliation . Again on 17th June 1963, the 
Union sent a demand to the Management, requesting the workers who were to be 
taken hy the contractors should be taken under their direct employment. As 
again the mutual negotiations failed the matter was once again referred to the 
Central Labour Commissioner , Bombay. The matter was referred to the Concl 
liation Omcer on 23rd July , 1963, joint discussions took place on 2nd August 1963 , 
and Conciliation proceedings ended in a fallure on 30th August 1963. A fallure report 
was sent to the Central Ministry of Labour and Employment by the Conciliation 
Officer on 2nd September 1963 under intimation to the parties , conveying their 


3608 1HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


[ PAKT 11 


T 


: 


respective stands to the Government. On the receipt of the report of the Conci 
llation Officer , the Government of India vide their letter, dated 4th December 1964 
referred the above dispute to the adjudication of Sri Salim Merchant, Industrial 
Tribunal, Bombay, constituted under Section 7 ( a ) of the Industrial Dispute Act . 
Again after some time vide the letter dated v / 28 / 62 / 63 dated 26th June 1965 , the 
Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment issued another notifica 
tion referring the dispute to the adjudication of Sri Meher M . R .; Presiding Omcer, 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay. Sri Meher sent the parties a letter dated 31st July 
1965 asking them to Ale their respective justification statements . Accordingly the 
management and the Union Aled their statements on 1st November 1965 and 17th 
September 1965 respectively . The case was first fixed for hearing on 9th November 
1965 and thereafter it was adjourned from time to time with the mutual consent 
of the parties for the negotiating a mutually acceptable settlement till 16th Septem 
ber 1966 , when the following agreement was arrived at between the parties . 


Terms of the Agreement 
1. It is hereby agreed that the workers who are so far working with contractor 
for loading and unloading operations, of Nathani Steel Yard and who could be 
provided reasonably continuous work and whose names as given by the union are 
given in the annexure appended herewith , will be taken under the direct employ 
ment of the Management, from the date of settlement. 


2 . If the loading and unloading work require more than the labour that is 
being absorbed as per the annexure referred to in clause 1, the Management 
- reserves the right to engage such labour on contract basis whenever required , for 
such duration as may be necessary without entailing upon themselves the respon 
sibility of absorbing them in their direct employment like workers mentioned in 
the annexure cited above. 


3 . The workers, as per the annexure appended herewith , who will be taken in 
the direct employment of the company as per the demand of the union , will be 
absorbed in the unskilled category and in the scale fixed for them by another 
agreement with Bombay Mazdoor Union on 14th July 1966 , i. c ., Rs. 1 - 25 - 0 . 10th 
February 1965. But they will be given a higher start of Rs. 1 - 45 P . per day to 
begin with from the date of settlement, as per the request of the Union . 


4 . The said workers who are now going to be absorbed in direct employment 
-as per the particulars specified in the annexure, will also be given , as a gesture 
of good will of the management an ex - gratia amount of Rs. 78 / - per worker and 
hope they will render them better and more efficient work in view of the fact 
the management has now agreed to take under them directly in employment, giving 
them additional benefits , 


5 . Provident Fund -- The workers ilke the rest will be governed by the Emp 
loyees Provident Fund Act. 

6 . Sick - leave. - The said workers ilke the rest of the workers will be governed 
by the ESIC Scheme and will be entitled to the benefits thereunder. 

7 . Casual- leave. — The workers will be entitled of 7 days casual leave for year . 
It is non -accumulative. Not more than two days casual leave will be allowed at 
a time but the workers will be allowed to prefix or suffix their casual leave to a 
holiday . They will not be entitled to encash casual leave . 

8 . Pald Holldays . The said workers will be entitled for 5 paid holidays in a 
year as per the prevalling practice . 

9 . Uniformg.- - The said workers will be given after one year of continuous 
service, from 1st December 1966 , two pairs of uniforms to each per year, as per 
the existing practice . 

10 . Earned - Lenye . — The said workers like the rest of the workers will be entitl 
ed to leave with pay at the rate of one day for every twenty days of work performed 
by them in the previous year . 

11. Dearness Allowance . - - ( i) During the first half year of their service i. e . 
from 1st October to 31st March , 1967, the sald workers will get a dearness allowance 
equivalent to 75 per cent of the Bombay cotton textile scale for the working days 
of the month . 


Sec , 8 (ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1960 / PAUS: 9, 1988 3609 

- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - 
(11) During the second year of service i.e . from 1st April to 31st March , 1968 , 
85 per cent of the revised cotton textile scale for the days of the month worker 
will be given . 

( iii) During the last 14 years , i. e . from 1st April 1968 to 31st October, 1969, 
which is the third year of settlement, the workers will get 90 per cent of the Bom - - 
bay cotton textile scale for the days of the month worked . 

12. Gratuity . — The following scheme of gratulty will be made applicable to 
workers from the date of settlement: 
( 1) On the death of a worker , while in the service of the firm or his being 

physically or mentally handicapped , for further service - 26 days basic 
wages subject to a maximum of 15 months basic wages , payable to 

him or his heirs or executors , as the casc may lie . 
(li , On retirement or resignation . - After 15 years of continuous service , 13 . 

days basic wages , subject to maximum of 15 months basic wages . 
( ili) On termination of service . After 5 years of continuous servico , 7 days 

basic wages , after ten years of continuous service 10 days of basic 

wages subject to a maximum of 15 months basic wages. 
( lv ) Gratuity will not be paid to a workman discharged or dismissed for mis 

conduct causing financial loss to the extent of the loss suffered by the 

firm . 
( v ) Wages for the purpose of the gratulty shall be the last drawn basic wages 

on the date or event of death , resignation , or termination or abondon 

ment of service as the case may be, 
( vi ) Continuous service means for the purpose of this agreement, service 

which is not broken by any termination of service by discharge or 

dismissal or resignation or abandonment of service . 
13 . Engineering wage board - Adjustment that may be necessary after the sub 
mission of the report and acceptance of recommendations to the extent applicable 
to the workers of this company. 

( i) If the Wage Board for the Enginecring industry awards any final monetary 
benent or relief which is recommended by the Government, such relief to the 
extent applicable to the company shall be considered on the consolidated wages 
that are in existence as a result of this settlement. 

( ii ) If such increases awarded by the wage board and recommended by the 
Government is granted than what has already been granted under this settlement. 
the difference will be made good to the workmen affected by the docision of the 
wage board from the date on which the award of the wage board becomes cffective. 

(iii ) If, however , any monetary Anal Relief, awarded by the Wage Board and 
recommended by the Government falls short of what has already been given , by the 
company under this settlement, the workmen shall not be required to reimburse the 
same, excess amount to the company . 

14 . Payment of adjustments offered vide clause 4 above will be made along with 
the wages for the month of November, 1966 . 

15 . Duration of the settlements . The settlement shall come into force with 
effect from 1st October 1986 and shall remain in force for a period of three years 
from the date of operative of settlement, ending with 31st October , 1969 , and the 
workmen or the Union or other shall have no right whatsoever to raise any fresh 
demands regarding any of the above matters or agitate for tho same during the 
operation of the settlement. 

(Sd.) Illegible , 
M / s . Nathani Steel Yard . 
Adjacent to Vidhya Vihar Rly . Station , 
Bombay - 77 . 

( Sd .) Illegible , 
Transport and Dock Workers Union , 

Bombay . 

18th November 1966 . 
List of the workers in the employment of M / s Nathani Steel Yard . 
1 . Shri Bala Mahadu. 
2 . Shri Prabhakar Tukaram 
3. Shri Dyaneshwar Shanker . 


shall a period, 1989, am Fresh 


2610 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 8 , 1888 


(PART II 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- 


4 . Shri Ramdhani. 
5 . Shri Sidhari Prasad . 
6 . Shri Sharmuraj. 
7. Shri Baiju Prasad . 
8 Shri Chhabilal 
9 . Shri Kanhaiyalal. 
10 . Shri Tukaram Sitaram . 
11 . Shri Satyaba Tukaram . 
12 . Shri Raghu Genu. 
13. Shri Raghunath Marut). 
14 . Shri Namdeo Gajoo . 
15 . Shri Balkoo Ananda . 
16 . Shri Rama Aba . 
17. Shri Dadoo Jiwra . 
18. Shri Sitaram Ganpat. 
19 . Shri Pandurang Abaji . 
20 . Shri Nizauddin . 
21. Shri Khandu Rakhma. 
22. Shri Ramchandra Vithoba . 
23 . Shri Santlal Bhikoo . 
24 . Shri Nana Bhau Raghoo . 
25 . Shri Baboo Dagdoo . 
26 . Shri Rajaram Hari. 
27. Shri Sopana Lahanoo . 
28 . Shri Sopana Bapoo. 
29. Shri Mahipat Rambhar . 
39 . Shri Tatyaba Kondiba. 
31 . Shri Jaisingh Vithoba. 
32. Shri Tambi Dev Taigo. 
33 . Shri Mahadeo Vithoba. 
34 . Shri Baban Nagoo . 
35. Shri Dasarath Tukaram . 
36 . Shri Sona Manjapa , 
37 . Shri Laxmibai Ganpat. 
38 . Shri Rama Genoo . 
39. Shri Kashinath Maruti. 
40 Shri Sakharam Kisan . 
41. Shri Laxman Shripat. 
42. Shri Dhondibau Maruti. 
43. Shri Namdem Rambhau. 
44 . Shri Hasan Yusuf. 
45 . Shri Ramoo Bala . 
46. Shri Pancham Hari. 
47. Shri Pandurang Shivram . 
48 . Shri Ananda Govinda . 
49 . Shri Ram Shantaram . 
57. Shri Banshi Tatyaba . 
51. Shri Ram Dhaneshwar Sumir , 
52. Shri Dukhram Sechan . 
53. Shri Yeshwant Deoji. 


- - 


- 


- 


SEC. 9 ( 11 )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3 , 1888 
- - - - 

54 . Shri Ananda Rajaram Sagre. 
55 . Shri Dyandeo Shivram Ichke. 
56 . Shri Gajaraj. 
57. Shri Maruti Baboo Renuse . 

[No. 28 (62 ) / 63 -LRIV .1 


S . O . 3936 . - - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Labour Court , Hubli in the industrial dispute between the employers in relation 
to the management of the quarries of Messrs Bagalkot Cement Company Limited , 
Bagalkot, District Bijapur and their workmen which was received by the Central 
Government on the 3rd December , 1966. 


IN THE LABOUR COURT AT HUBLI 

Dated 28th November, 1966 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT REFERENCE (ID ) (LCH ) No. 15 OF 1966 . 
PRESENT : 
Sri Syed Azizuddin Ahmed . M . A ., B .L ., Presiding Officer, 

BETWEEN 
The Workmen of M / s . Bagalkot Cement Company , Ltd ., Bagalkot, represented 
by the General Secretary , Bagalkot Cement Co ., Workers Union Venkatpet, Bagal 
kot. - I Party . 


AND 


The Management of M / s . Bagalkot Cement Company Ltd ., Bagalkot, Dist . Bija 
pur. - II Party . 


This is a reference U / s 10 ( 1 ) ( d ) read with Section 7 of the Industrial Disputes 
Act , 1947 , made by the Government of India , Ministry of Labour and Employment, 
New Delhi, dated 21st January 1966 . The point of dispute referred for adjudica 
tion is as under : - - 
" Whether the retrenchment by the management of the following 45 work 

men on the 24th October, 1964 is proper and justified ? If not, to what 
relief are they entitled ? 


S .No . 


Name 


S .No. 


Name 


1, S . S , Koppal 
2 . A . V . Deshpande 
3 . K . K . Maktedar 
4 , S . A . Badami 
5 . Gadigeppa Mallappa 
6 . Chanbasappa Sangappa 
7 . Dhulappa Nagappa 
8 . Rudrappa Ramappa 
9 . Neelappa Nanappa 
10 . Yalgurdappa Yankappa 
11. Basappa Dundappa 
12 . Chandrappa Rangappa 
13 . Dongarisab Alligab 
14 . Topanna Thakarappa 
15 . Manappa Havalappa 
16 . Shivaputrappa Bhimappa 
17. Irappa Laxman 
18 . Kasimsab Hasansab 
19 . Aminsab Dongarisab 
20. Hamajasab Husensab 
21. Dhariyappa Nagappa 
22. Rajesab Allisab 
23. Teekappa Gopanna 


24 , Grupadappa Girimallappa 
25 . Vithal Govindappa 
26 . Irappa Ganapateppa 
27. Ghanabasappa Sangappa 
28 . Keshappa Japanna 
29 . Basavaraj Honakeriappa 
30 . Babu Dharamappa 
31. Maliyappa Sangappa 
32. Vithal Chandrappa 
33. Mahibubgab Husensab 
34, Yamanappa Bhimappa , 
35. Ramappa Bhimappa 
36 . Shankarappa Dundappa 
37. Gadeeppa Parappa 
38. Konappa Sorappa 
39. Ramappa Siddappa 
40. Adiveppa Shivalingappa 
41. Irappa Chanabasappa 
42 . Rahimansab Husensab 
43. Ramappa Haleppa 
44. Jeevappa Gopanna 
45. Hanamantappa Basappa 


2 . The cause of the aggrieved workmen has been sponsored and espoused by 
The Bagalkot Cement Company Workers Union , Venkatpet, Bagalkot , Bijapur 
District represented by its General Secretary , Sri N . K . Upadhyaya , President 


3612 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 5, 1EX" [ PAGI !! 

- - 
of the union appeared for the I Party while Sri B . Narayanaswamy, Advocate 
appeared for the II Party . 

3 . In response to the notice issued by this Court , the I Party tiled its claim 
Ştatement, dated 28 - 2 - 1966 and the II Party its Counter Statement, dated 28 - 6 
1968 . 

4 . The present industrial dispute relates to the retrenchment of forty - five 
workmen of the II Party management. The case of the I Party is that all these 
forty - five workmen were permanent employees of the Company , and they were 
working in the Company s lime- stone mines as mazdoors and mares with a 
continuous service of more than 7 to 8 years . On 21 - 4 - 1964 the management re 
fused work to some of the aggrieved workmen , who had attended their duties in 
C shift from 14 , 00 hours to 22 .00 hours and had worked for one and half hours, 
The retrenchment is in violation of the provisions of 15 ( a ) of the Standing 
Orders of the Company in as much as two weeks notice was not served on the 
aggrieved workmen . The management did not comply with the procedure laid 
down in Sec. 25 - G of the Industrial Disputes Act. It gave the go by to the 
principle last come first go . Further , the management had violated the Indus 
trial Truce resolution , dated 3rd November , 1962, which stated that dismissals , 
retrenchments , and discharges should be avoided during the present emergency . 
Thus, the whole action of the management is illegal and ultravires . Hence 
the workmen have to be reinstated with back wages and with costs . The IT Party 
resisted the Claim Statement. It Aled a detailed Counter Statement traveising 
the allegations in the Claim Statement of the I Party . The pith and substance 
of the Counter Statement is that the retrenched workmen were working as tem 
porary hands and were made permanent with effect from 1st January , 1964 . 
They were made permanent on the specific understanding that their services 
would be terninated as soon as the bolt - conveyer was installed . This is evi 
denced by a copy of the undertaking given by the workmen marked Annexure A , 
The workmen were retrenched by the Company as per notice dated 24th October, 
1964. As they were superfluous to requirement for reasons stated in the said 
notice. The copy of the notice is appended and marked as Annexure B . The 
retrenched workmen were offered a month s wages in lieu of notice and retrench 
ment compensation in accordance with the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 and all 
other dues . All of them have accepted the wages in lieu of notice , retrenchment 
compensation and all other dues . Due to installation of the belt conveyer from 
the quarry to the factory , the work of transportation of crushed lime stone to 
the factory from the quarry by tubs, which the concerned workmen were all 
along doing was not available and hence they were rendered surplus to rcquire 
ment. The management in effecting the retrenchment has followed the proce 
dure laid down in Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 and only the junior most workmen 
have been retrenched . 

6 . The II Party denied the fact that it had not followed its Standing Orders 
or the provisions of Chapter V A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947. The con 
cerned workmen were served with individual notire on 24th October, 1964. stating 
the reasons for which the retrenchment was effected . The company had also 
put up a general notice on the notice - board , informing the concerned workmen 
that they were being retrenched as they were rendered superfluous to require 
ment due to the installation of belt conveyor. It was further stated that the 
Industrial Truce resolution dated 11th March , 1962 referred in the Claim State 
ment does not in any way impose a legal bar in respect of retrenchment of work 
men if it become necessary due to rationalisation of machinery and more effl 
cient methods of manufacture . There is nothing illegal in the action of the 
company in retrenching these workmen and they are not entitled to be reinstated 
nor are they cntitled to any relief . 

7 . In addition to the Point of Dispute , referred for adjudication , on 28th 
June, 1966 the following issue was raised : 
Whether the I Party proves that the II Party management has not followed 

its standing order provision 15 ( a ) and Sec. 15 G of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 while effecting the retrenchment of the aggrieved 

workmen ? 
8 . The I Party examined in all four witnesses and closed its evidence 
while in rebuttal, the II Party examined in all two witnesses. Three documents 
were marked as exhibits for the I Party and twelve for the II Party . 
FINDINGS 

9. These two issues may, better , be discussed together. Annaji, W . W . 1. Syed 
Abdulkhader, W . W . 3 who are the mates and the other witnesses Vithal, W . W , 2 
and Shankarappa, W . W . 4 who are the ordinary workmen admitted that they 


980. 3( 11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1988 / PAUSA 8, 1888 


3613 


were all daily rated workmen getting Rs. 3 . 50 per day . They deposed that they 
were not served with the notice of termination and the same was not put up 
on the notice -hoard of the factory . Annaji. W . W . 1 says that the Worlcs Mana 
ger orally told him that he and the other 14 workmen working under him were 
no longer required and that they had been retrenched . Similarly , Syed Abdul 
khadar. W . W . 3 deposed that on 25th October , 1904 when he came to duty tho 
Watchman told him that he had been retrenched . The witnesses of the I Party 
W . W . I to W . W . 4 make a grievance of the fact that the workmen , who were 
junior to them have been retrenched while they who were senior to them had 
heon retrancherl. They citert the names of Ningappa Sirur, Saheblal. Ningappa 
Siddappa , Dadahhai, Mohmad Ghouse. Raje Saheh , Hanamanta , Narayana, Bagayya 
and Yalgi by way of example . All these witnesses admit having recelved the 
retrenchment compensation . one month s wages in lieu of notice and other dues, 
In rehuttal, B . S . Mani, M . W . 1 Chiet Time -keeper , who has been working under 
the II Party since last eleven years deposed that for the year 1962 they were 
Petting the work of tub - loading through a contractor . Originally all the 45 AR 
grinyer turkmen user to work under a contractor . Ex. M - 7 is the work order 
and Ex, M . 8 is the order abolishing the contract system in the department. The 
workers who were working under the contractor were taken over by the manage 
ment as temporary workers . Ex, M - 9 is the Ale containing the underta dings given 
by agrh one of the aggrieved workmen when they were taken as temporary 
workmen . For a proper Appraisal of the real nature of the dispute between 
the parties , it would be better to reproduce in full one such undertaking of the 
workman . It runs thus : 

Q . T . No. 42 
To, 

The Mines Manager , 
Bagalkot Limestone Mines, 
Bagalkot. 

Temporary Appointment 
Sir, 

It has bron rxplained by your officers to me that I have been recruited by 
you as a temporary worker for loading of tubs of limestone at the quarry . 

I know that the work will be of temporary nature and as the company pro 
nosac to instal a helt conveyor within a short time, my work will be limited to 

fayt months, any way not more than five months from today . At the end of 
this period my work with you will come to an end and I shall have no claim 
whatsoevas in respect of this work excepting what appertains to temporary em 
ployment for a limited period , 

I am signing this letter to indicate that I have perfectly understood the tem 
nosotr nature of my employment and I am fully aware that it will come to an 
and within a reriod of six months from today . 

I am grateful to you for giving me, during my period of employment, with 
you , the wages of an unskilled labourer , as introduced in all cement factories . 

Yours faithfully 


L .H . T .I. of Irappa Laxman Bagalkot : 
Bagalkot, 
Dated 15th December, 1982 . 
When the workmen were made permanent a fresh undertaking was taken from 
them as per Ex. M - 1. It runs thus : 

" ANNEXURE A 
Mines Manager , 
Bagalkot Limestone Mines , 
Bagalkot. 
Sir . 

I am grateful to you that at my request you have made my Temporary ap 
nointment into a permanent one with effect from 1st January , 1964 , nn my having, 
completed continuous service which makes me eligible for being made permanent. 
Tam glad that the company will grant me all the privileges of a permanent ap 
pointment Uke Provident Fund , Leave and retrenchment compensation , 


3611 THE GAZET IE OF INDIA : - DECEMBER 24 , 1965 / FAUSA 9, 1888 


[PART II 


You have explained to me that my appointment will be terminated as soon as 
the Belt Convevor is installed and that my work with you will come to an end 
on that day , and that I shall have no claim for continuity of my service . 


I am signing this letter to indicate that I have perfectly understood the nature 
of my employment and that it will come to an end as soon as the Belt Conveyor is 
installed . 


Yours faithfully , 


Date : 


By seeing the Master Ledger , Ex M - 10 , the witness stated that Saheblal Sagar , 
$ 1. No. 992 . Ningappa - Siddappa, Sl. No . 1004 , Dadabhai Kotwal. Si, No. 993 , 
Hangmantappa Sivarayhop9. Sd , No, 1009 , Gangappa Sivappa , S . No. 1007, Siddappa , 
Basappa , SI, No. 1011 , Rajesąheb Imamsaheb , SI No . 904 , Naravan Govindappa, si . 
No. 1010 were all conArmed on 1st January, 1964. The aggrieved workmen Si. 
No . 945 to 990 in Ex . M - 10, cach one of them was also confirmed on Ist January , 
1964 The were retrenched on 21st April, 1964 as seen from Ex . M - 10 ( a ) . S . G . 
Yalgi. S1. No. 478 Joined the ex -service in the quarry on 17th September , 1956 . 
Siddappa Bannidinni is an independent contractor , he is not an employee of the 
company and his name does not Agure in Ex M - 2 . There has been practically 
very little cross - examination of this witness . Sivaputrappa M . W . 2 , Time-keeper 
of the IInd Party deposed that the management had sarved a notice of change to 
the union as per Ex , M - 11 . A general notice as per Ex . M - 2 was put up on the 
notice -Board by the neon in his person and under his Inspection . himself took perso 
nally letters to the individual aggrieved workmen but they refused to rerelve the 
letters . Two such letters have been marked Exs M — 3 and M - 4 and the others 
collectively as Ex , M - - 12 . His peon pasted tho duplicate of the individual letters 
on the notice hoard under his instruction . The general notice of retrenched in 
Kannarese version was also pasted on the notice board in his presence During 
the course of his cross - examination he further lariſed that he presented the letters 
for service when the workmen were on duty on 24th October , 1964 . 


9 . Sri N . K . Uppdhvava , the learned representative of the I Party assoiled the 
retrenched of the aggrieved workmen on three grounds . The first being that th 
management did not contact the workmen to commuricate them the reasons for 
retrenchment. Secondly , the principle of last come Arst go as prescribed in Ser 
tion 25G was not observed . Thirdly , notice as laid down in Section 25 F ( c ) was 
not served on the appropriate Government. He also pointedly invited my attention 
to the Industrial Truce Resolution referred to in the Claim Statement. He reter 
red to the following rulings during the course of his arguments ; 


( 1 ) 1955 ILI ( 2 ) page 395 . 
( 2 ) 1957 LLJ ( 1 ) page 243. 

( 3 ) 1980 LLJ ( 1 ) page 251. 
10 . Sri B . Narayanaswamy, arguing for the Party submitted that the conten 
tion of the learned representative are devold of substance . He submitted that from 
unimpeachable evidence the management has stablished the fact that the manage 
ment did serve the retrenchment orders on the aggrieverd workmen as evidenced by 
the testimony of Shivaputra , M . W . 2 , but the agrtieved workmen had refused to 
serve them . The duplicate of the orders were pasted on the notice bolard of the 
factory in the presence of this witness in under his instruction by his peon Kul 
karni. This being so , it cannot be contended that the management did not contact 
the workmen to communicate them the reasons of retrenchmant. Hc argued that 
due regard has been given to the principle of last rome first co in effecting re 
trenchment. Thirdly , that there has been rue compliance of the provision 1.5A Of 
the Stancling Orders and Section 25G of the TD . Art. 1947 . Lastly , he submitted 
that retrenchment has been effectent when it herame inevitabia and therr has been 
no violation of the Industrial Truce Resolution , vated 3r11 Novemter , 1962 stated 
by the T Party in its Claim Statement. I gave my wakeful attention to the deci 
sions referred to above. 

11. In the Arst, ruling, which is of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of India, it 
has been observed : 
"" There must be an order terminating their servires and it must be communi 

cated to the workmen concerned . As the company had declared a 


Szc. ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBIK 2 , 1966 ;PAUSA , 1488 


3615 


- 


UL - - - 


lock -out following the strike and the workmen could not , therefore, 
have access to the atolle board of the company, a general notice of 
dismissal allixed on the notice board of the company cannot be congi 
dered to be elective . Similarly the piter to reinstate the workmen , 
who would report for duty within the stipulated time should be in 

factual in the circumstances. etc." 
It is apparent to the naked eye that this ruling is not on all fours with the facts 
of the present case . Herein we have got the sworn testimony of Shivaputra , M . W . ? 
that he personally took the letters ( order of retrenchment) to the individual work 
men and they had refused to serve them . The duplicate or these orders were past 
ed on the notice board in his presence and under his instruction by his peon 
Kulkarni. There is no reason to disbelieve the sworn testimony of this witness . 
The points canvasssed in the socond ruling are different and they have no bcaring 
on the facts of the present case . In the last decision it has been observed : 
" The Section 25 F (b ) provides that no workmen shall be retrenched until 

the condition in question has been satışfied . Hence , it cannot be 
contended that when the sanction imposed in mandatory terms a condi 
tion precedent non - compliance with the said condition would not ren 

der the impugned retrenchment invalid and inoperative " . 
The argument of Sri N . K . Upadhyaya is that the retrenchment of the aggrieved 
workmen is invalid and inoperative . We shall just examule the validity of this 
argument. All the tour witnesses examined by the I Party have admitted the re 
ceipt of retrenchnient coinpensation , one month s wages in lieu of notice and other 
dues . From credible evidence it has been established that the notice of retrench 
ment detailing the reasons was presented to them for service and that they had 
refused to serve it . Thereupon , the same was pasted on the notice board . Ad . 
mittedly no notice in the prescribed form has been served on the appropriate Gov 
ernment. We shall just consider the cflect of nonservice of such notice. In a rul 
ing reported in 1964 LLJ ( 1 ) 351 / 357 ( S . C . ) it has been observed : 
" There does not appear to be present any compelling consideration which 

would justify the making oľ the provision prescribed by Clause C 
a condition precedent as in the case of Clauses A and B . There 
fore, having regard to the object which is intended to be achieved by 
Clauses A and B as distinguished from the object which Clause 
C has in mind , it would not be unreasonable to hold that clause C 

unlike Clauses A and B is not a condition precedent." 
In the instant case , in the absence of any evidence to show that the workmen re 
celved the compensation amount and one month s wages in lieu of notice volunt 
arily they can have no claim to reinstatement. There does not seem to be much 
truth in the allegation that the management had given the go by to the principle 
of last come first go as seen from the testimony of B . S . Mani, M . W . 1, Chief Time 
Keeper, which has been referred above Alter the adjournment of the case for 
passing of the award , Sri N . K . Upadhaya , the Icarned representative of the I Party 
sent a list of 34 persons with a covering letter dated 24th October , 1966 . This is in 
support of his contention that these 34 persons, who are juniors, were retained in 
service by the management in preference to the aggrieved workmen , who were 
seniors . No notice of this list can be taken at this stage. In a ruling reported in 
1966 LLJ ( 2 ) page 324 the Lordships of the Supreme Court have expressed their 
view on the principle of last come first go in these words : 
" The rule of " first come last go " is intended to secure an equitable treatment 

to the employees when , having regard to the exigencies of the business, 
it is necessary to retrench some employees . But in the application 
of the rule the inteests of the ubsiness cannot be overlooked . The 
rule has to be applied where other things are cqual and the manage 
ment act fairly to the employees. Where however the management 
bona fide retains statt possessing special apptitude in the interests of 
the business , it cannot be assumed to have acted unfairly merely be 

cause the rule " first come, last go " is not observeu ." 
In the same ruling it has been further held 
" It is an accepted principle of industrial law that in ordering retrenchment 

ordinarily the management should commence with the latest recruit 
and progressively retrench employees higher up in the list of seniority . 
But this rule is not immutable and for valid reasons may be departed 

from ." 
The witness has suggested the names of certain workmen , who were retained in 
service in preference to them . Sri Mani, M . W . I showed with reference to the 


3616 INL GAZETTÁ OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1936 / PAUSA 5 1888 


(PART II 


II 


Master Ledger that this was not correct . Strictly speaking, the names of these 34 
workmen should have been suggested to Sri Mani, M . W . 1 and his explanation 
should have been taken . In the absence of this , no notice can be taken of this list. 
STI B . Narayanaswamy rightly contended that the industrial Truce Resolution ieler 
red to by the learned representative of the I Party has no legal binuing effect . At 
best It is only of a moral value. As a natural corollary to the above discussion , this 
issue is decided against the I Party . 

The next Important point to be considered is , whether the retrenchment is pro 
per and justified ? This question revolves round the propriety of the introduc 
tion of the conveyor belt by the management. SH N K Upadhyaya argued win a 
certain amount of motion that the management ought not to have in 
troduced the conveyor belt for transporting crushed Ume stone to the factory 
from the quarry, which the concerned workmen were all along doing by means of 
tubs. They could have very well deferred this to a future date in view of tho pre 
sent condition of the workmen , who have been so hard hit by soaring prices . In 
answer to this Shri B , Narayanaswamy replied with a certain amount of amphasis 
that our economy is changing, automation is coming in . It would be futile to 
stop it . The right of the management to rationalise the industry has been ac 
cepted in several decisions of our High Court . In a labour force of more than 1000 , 
the management have retrenched only 45 workmen after giving due considera 
tion to the subject . They did so , when it was inevitable . The introduction of 
conveyor belt was anticipated long before the retrenchment. The aggrieved 
workmen , who were working under a contractor were taken over by the managc 
ment on the specific understanding that they would be retrenched when a con 
veyor belt was introduced . They were also made permanent on the same under 
standing . Now they cannot turn round and say that the management was not 
justifled in terminating their services and that their action was not justified . 
Annaji, W . W . 1 , who is the star witness of the I Party admits it during the course 
of cross - examination that after the conveyor belt was installed there was no work 
for loading the tubs. 

Thus, it would be seen that the aggrieved workmen were rendered superſuous 
to requirement consequent to the introduction of the conveyor belt. From the 
evidence on record and on an overall consideration of the facts and circum 
stances of the case, I hold that the retrenchment of the 45 workmen mentioned 
in the order of reference was proper and justified . 

AWARD 
It is held that the retrenchment by the management of the 45 workmen , men 
tioned in the order of reference la proper and justified . They are not entitled 
to any relleſ. The parties shall bear their own costs . 
Place : Hubil . 
Date : 28 - 11 - 1966 

(Sd .) SYED AZIZUDDIN AHMED , 
Presiding Officer , Labour Court, Hubli 
ANNEXURE 


W . W . . 
W . W . 2 
W . W . 3 
W . W . 4 


. 
. 
. 
. 


CentralGout. Roforonco (ID ) (LCH ) No. 15 /1966 

Witnesses examined for I Party ) 
Annaji Venkatesh Deshpande 
Vithal Govindappa 
Syed S /o Abdulkhadar 
Shankarappa Dundappa 

Witnesses examined for II Party 
. . 

B . S , Mani 
, Shivaputrappa Sankarappa Hebballi ; 

Documontsmarked for 1 Party 


M . W . I 
M . W .2 


. 
. 


Exhibits : 

W _ I 
W - 2 
W - 3 


. 


, 


. Temporary token of Sri A . V . Deshpande 
• Permanent token of Sri A . Y . Deshpande 
. List of temporary workers who were in service uplo 31- 7 - 1965 ) 


bec, 3 (1) ] 


= 


" 


M 


— I 


..: 


M 
M 


- 3 
- 4 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24, 1966 /PAUSA 8, 1888 3617 

- - - - 
- - w est 

Documents marked for 11 Party 
. . 

True copy of letter signed and given by the retrenchied workman 

General notice of retrenchinent catců 24 - 10 - 1964 
. . 

Letter of retrenchment dated 24 - 10 - 1964 of Sri A . V . Deshpande . 
. 

Sri 
. Letter of 

Viſhal 
. 

retrenchment dated 24 - 10 - 1964 of 
Govindappa . 
Letter of retrenchment dated 24 - 10 - 1966 of Sri S . A . Bacami 
Letter of retrenchment dated 24 - 10 - 1964 of Sri Shankarappa 

Dundappa, 
. . 

Letter No. Wo Quarry /4 -5162 dated 1-6 - 1962 uddressed to Sri 

Murnal . 
Letter No. Wo Quarry /4 - 9103 dated 17 / 18 - 12 - 62 . 

File containing letter from employees dated 15 - 12 - 62 . 
. 

. Copy of Master Ledger of appointments . 

Copy of notice of change dated 24 - 10 - 1964 
, 

. 40 individual retrenchment letters dated 24 - 10 - 1964. 


ni 


M – 7 
M - 8 
M – 9 
M – 10 
M — II 
M – 12 


.:: 


Place : Hubli 
Date : 28 -11- 1966 . 


(Sd -) SYED AZ ZUDDIN AHMAD , 

Prcsuing Officer , 
Labour Court, Hubli. 

[No. F . 36 / 32 / 65 / LRI. ] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th December 1966 


$ . 0 . 3937 — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Canara Bank Limited and 
their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


And , whereas the Central Governmnet considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of which 
Shri B . S . Somasundram shall be the Picsiding Officer , with headquarters at 
Madras and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal 


SCHEDULE 
Considering his previous service and the present nature of work , whether 

Shri U . Surendra Shenoy is elegible for promotion to the post of 
Assistant Accountant without a written test, If so from what date 
he should be promoted as an Assistant Accountant ? 

[No . 51/ 41/66 -L .R . IV. ] 


New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 
S . O . 3038. — Whereas an Industrial dispute exists betwcen the General Manager , 
Bhilal Steel Plant of Hindustan Steel Limited , Bhilai, in relation to Rajhara Iron 
Ore Mines (hereinafter referred as the said Company ) and their workmen repre 
sented by the Khadan Mazdoor Congress, Rajhara , Post Office Dalll - Rajhara . 
District Durg (hereinafter referred to as the Union ) ; 

And , whereas, the said Company and the Union have by a written agreement, 
in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10A of the Industria ) 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947), agreed to refer the said dispute to arbitration of 
the person mentioned therein , and a copy of the said arbitration agreement has 
been forwarded to the Central Government; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of the provisions of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A 
of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby 
publishes the said arbitration agreement, which was received by it on the 5th 
December , 1966 . 


3618 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / I AUSA 3 , 1888 l Akr 11 

= = = = = = - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - 

Agreement 
(Under Section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1947 ) 

BETWEEN 
Representing the employers --- 1. Shri L . J. Kale, Sr. Labour Officer (Mines) 

Bhilai Steel Plant. 
2. Shri S . Balakrishnan , Personnel Omcer (Mines ), Bhilai Steel Plant. 
Representing the workmen - Shri P . K . Sengupta , General Secretary , Khadan 

Mazdoor Congress . 
It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dispute 
to the arbitration of Shri D . Panda , Regional Labour Commissioner (Cetral), Jabal 
pur , 

(1) Special matter in dispute . In the light of the discussions between the parties 
before Shri P . N . Razdan , the then Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), 
Jabalpur on 31st May 1965 whether Shri S . Mukherjee , Chargeman , Rejhara Mines 
of Bhilai Steel Plant is entitled to promotion in the scale of Rs. 325 - 475 , If so , 
from what date. 

( ii) Details of the parties to the dispute . - General Manager, Bhilai Steel Plant 
of Hindustan Steel Ltd ., Bhilai (Durg -MP), in relation to Rajhara Iron Ore Mines 
and their workmen represented by Khadan Mazdoor Congress, Dalll-Rajhara 
( Durg-MP) . 

(111) Name of the union representing the workmen in question . - Khadan 
Mazdoor Congress, Rajhara, P . O . Dalli-Rajhara (Distt. Durg M . P .) : 

( iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected .- - 2300 . 
( v ) Number of workinen affected by the dispute. - 1. 

The Arbitrator shall make his award within a period of 9 months from this 
date or within such further time as extended by mutual agreement between us 
in writing. In case the Award is not made within the period aforesaid the re 
ference to arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free 
to negotiate for fresh arbitration . 

( Sd .) P . K . SENGUPTA , 
( Sd .) L . J. KALE , 

29 - 10 -66 . 

Accepted 
(Sd .) S . BALAKRISHNAN 

( Sd.) D . PANDA , 
Witnesses 

Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) Jabalpur, 
1 . (Sd .) K , N . DIXIT , 
2 . (Sd .) P . S , NAIR , 
Bhilai 
29 - 10 -66 . 

[ F . No. F . 37 / 13 /66 -LR -I.] 
S . O . 3939. — Whereas an industrial dispute between the State Bank of Patiala 
and its workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedule hereto annexed 
was referrd for adjudication to Shri K . L . Gosain , Presiding Officer, Industrial 
Tribunal at Chandigarh by the Order of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Labour and Employment No . S . O . 4227 dated the 2nd December, 1964 ; 

And , whereas the award of the said Industrial Tribunal was published by the 
notifcation of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Labour and Em 
ployment No . S .O . 850 dated the 6th March , 1965 ; 

And , whereas the High Court of Punjab by its decision dated the 5th September , 
1966 , has quashed the aforesaid award and has remanded the dispute for rehear 
ing by the Industrial Tribunal and disposal in accordance with law ; 

And, whereas the services of Shri K . L . Gosain have ceased to be avallable ; 

Now , therefore, In exercise of the powers conferred by section 74 and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) . 
the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal with Shri 
Ishwar Daş Pawar as the Presidir . Oncer with headquarters at Chandigarh and 
refers the said (lis Jute to the said Industrial Tribunal for adjudication . 


SEC , 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA 3, 1888 


3619 


- 


- - 


SCHEDULE 
1. Whether the management of the State Bank of Patiala was justified in 

terminating the services of Shri Devinder Pal Verma (Clerk -cum 

typist) with effect from the 3rd May 1963 ? 
2 . If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

(No. F . 55 (42 ) / 66 -LRIV . ] 
A . L . HANDA , Under Secy . 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th December 1966 
S . O . 3940 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) Act . 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) , the Cen 
tral Government hereby makes the following Schrme further to amend the Bom 
bay Unregistered Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment) Scheme, 1957 . the 
- same having been previously published as required by the said sub - section , 
namely : - - 

1. This Scheme may be called the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regu 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966 . 

2 . In the Bombay Unregistered Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment) 
Scheme, 1957, in clause 16 , after sub - clause ( 3 ) , the following sub - clause shall be 
inserted , namely : 
" ( 4 ) An appellant shall not he entitled to be representen hy a legal practi 

tioner before the appellate authority , but he shall be entitled to be 
represented by a representative of the registered trade union of 
which he is a member or by a listed worker ." . 

[No. 630 / 2 /66 - Fac.I.] 
S . O . 3941. — In exercise of the powers confrrred by suh - snction ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Employment ) Act , 1948 ( 9 of 1948 ) the Cen 
tral Government hereby makna thn following Scheme further to amennt the Madras 
Unregistered Dock Workers ( Regulation of Emolovment ) Scheme, 1957, the same 
having been previously published as required by the said sub - section , namely ; - 

1 . This Scheme mav he called the Madras Tinregistered Dock Workers (Regu 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966 , 

2 . In the Madras Unregistered Dock Workers ( Regulation of Employment.) 
Scheme, 1957, in clause 16 , after sub - clause ( 3 ) , the following, sub - clausn shall be 
inserted , namely : 
“ ( 4 ) An appellant shall not be entitled to be representert hy a leral practi 

tioner before the appellate authrrity but he shall be entitled to ho 
represented by a renresentative of the registered trade union of which 
he is a member or by a listed worker ." . 

[ No. 630 / 2 / 60 - Fac - 2 ] 


S . O . 3942 - In exercise of the pewors nonferred hy guh - section ( 1 ) of section 4 
of the Dock Workers (Regulation of Emplovment ) Act , 1948 , ( 9 of 1948 ) the Gen 
tral Government hereby makes the following Srhome further to smand the Cal 
cutta Unregistered Dock Workers ( Ranuation of Employment) Schome. 1957 . the 
same having been previously publisher as requirrd by the said sub - section , 
namely : 

1 . This Scheme may be called the Calcutt . Tinregistered Dock Workers (Regu 
lation of Employment) Amendment Scheme, 1966 . 

2 . In the Calcutta Unresintered Duck Workers ( Regulation of Emplovment ) 
Scheme 1957 , in clause 16 , after sub - clause 13 ) , the following sub - clause sha l be 
inserted , namely : - 
“ ( 4 ) An appellant shall not be entitled to be representen hy a legn ] practi 

tioner before the appellate authority but he shall he entitled to be 
represented by a rendesentative of the registered trade union of which 
he is a member or by a listed worker ." . 

[No. 630 / 2 / 06 -Fac - 3 .) 
R . C . SAKSENA . Under Secy . 


3620 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DEC. 24 , 1966/ PAUSA 3, 1888 


[PART II SEC. 4] 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1966 
$ . 0 , 3943. - In pursuance of Sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 14 , Sub - section ( 1) of 
Section 15 , Sections 16 , 17 and 18 of the Personal Injuries (Compensation in In 
surance ) Act, 1963 ( 37 of 1063 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises the 
Chief Inspector of Plantations. Assam appointed under Section 4 ( 1 ) of the Plan 
tations Labour Act, 1951 to exercise the powers under Sections 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 and 
18 of the said Act throughout the State of Assam and Inspectors of Plantations, 
Assam , appointed under Section 4 ( 1 ) of the Plantations Labour Act, 1951 to 
exercise the powers under Sections 14 and 15 of the said Act within their respec 
tive jurisdiction , 

(No. 3 / 40 / 86 -Spl. Fac. II. ] 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 14th December 1966 
S . O . 3944 . In the Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation No. S . O . 3416 , dated the 1st November , 
1986 published in Part II, Section 3 , Sub -section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India 
Extraordinary dated the 12th November , 1966; 
Please read " Inspectors of Factories, Mysore State" in place of " Inspector 

of Factories , Mysore and 
" Inspectors of Plantations, Mysore State " , in place of " Inspector of Planta 
tions, Mysore ." . 

[No. 3/ 40 /66 -Spl. Fac . II .) 
N . N , CHATTERJEE , Jt. Secy. 


(Department of Labour & Employment) 

New Delhi, the 16th December 1966 
S . O . 3945 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of the employees in relation to the establishment known as 
Messrs Kirloskar Consultants Limited , Elphinstone Road , Kirkee Poona - 3 have 
agreed that the provisions of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 
1952) , should be made applicable to the said establishment; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 4 ) of section 
1 of the said Act, the Central Government hereby applies the provisions of the 
said Act to the sald establishment. 

This notification shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of 
April 1966 

[No. 8 (34 ) / 66 - PF .II. ] 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th December 1966 
3 . 0 , 3946 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 73F of the Emplopees 
State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Government, having regard 
to the seasonal nature of the industry carried on in the factory , he eby exempts , 
for a further period of one year with effect from the 1st January , 1967, every fac 
tory which is exclusively engaged in wool pressing either with or without cotton 
pressing and ginning, from the payment of the employers special contribution 
leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act. 

[No. F . 7 ( 10 ) / 66 - H1. ) 
DALJIT SINGH , Under Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 17th Decernher 1966 
S . O . 3947 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 258 of 
the Constitution and in supersession of the notification of the Government of India 
in the late Ministry of Labour No. S . R . O . 877, dated the 4th March , 1954 , the 


8o. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : DECEMBER 24 , 1966 / PAUSA %, 1888 


3621 


President hereby entrusts to the Government of Mysore, with their consent, the 
functions of the Central Government under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 
( 11 of 1948 ) , in so far as such functions relate to the fixation , review and revision 
of minimum rates of wages fixed under the said Act for employecs engaged in 
stope - breaking or stone - crushing operations carried on in any quarry situated 
within the State of Mysore . 

[ No. LWI- 1 - 2 ( 21 ) / 66 . ] 
S . O . 3948 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 3 , read with clause ( li) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 4 , and sub - section 
( 2 ) of section 5 , of the Minimum Wages Act , 1948 ( 11 of 1948 ) , the Central 
Government hereby ixes the minimum rates of wages payable to certain catego 
ries of employees employed on a contract basis on the construction or mainte 
nance of roads or in building operations and in stone breaking or stone crushing 
undertaken by the Indian Institute of Technology , Hijli Kharagpur specified in 
the Schedule annexed hereto , the same having been previously published as 
required by clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 5 of the said Act , and directs 
that this notification shall come into force on And from the 15th January 1987 . 

SCHEDULE 

- - . - - - 
Categories of employees 

All inclusive minimum 
esployed on a contract basis 

tates of uakes per day 
Urskilled 

- - - 
Mazdoor adult ( female ) 

Rs. 1 . 80 
Mazdoor adolescent 

Rs. 1 . 80 
Mazdoor Child 

Rs. 1 . 85 


- - - 


- 


- - 


- - 


NOTE : – The rates of wages indicated above shall be exclusive of the wage due 
for the weekly day of rest . 

· [ No, LW1- 1 - 7 ( 9 ) / 65 . ] 
0 . P . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF PUCATION 
New Delhi, the 15th December 1966 


S . O . 3949 . - VHERBAS the Central Government is of opinion that, by reason of their historical or archaeological importance , it is desirable to preserve 
the antiquities mentioned in the notifications of the Government of India in theMinistry of Education Nos . S . O . 2405, 2400 and 2407 dated the 2nd August , 
1966 issued under sub - section (1 ) of Section 25 of the AncientMonuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act , 1958 ( 24 of 1958 ) and specified in the 
Schedule below , in a public place ; 

NOW , THEREFORE , in pursuance of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 26 of the AncientMonudients and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 (24 of 
1958 ) the CentralGovernment hereby orders that the said antiquities shall be purchased compulsorily at their market value . 

THE SCHEDULE 


Serial 
No. 


State 


District 


Tehsil 


Locality 


Description of antiquity 


Ownership 


Remarks 


3622THEGAZETTEOTINDIA:DICEMBER24,1966/PAUSA8,1889 


I Madhya Pradesh 


, 


Satna 


Nagod 


Near Village 
Pataora . 


Origipally from Bharhut, 
the sculptur is now 
studded as a beam 
over two pillars of the 
chbatni on the outskirts 
of village Pataora . The 
sculpture has been 
published by Gep , 
Cunningham in Stupa 
of Bharhut, plate 26 

figure 8 . 
Originally from Bharbut , 

these sculptures are 
DOW fitted into the 
masonry of the Garhi at 
Bhatanwara , wherein 
Shri Urmila Pratap 
Singh is not residing . 


2 Madhya Pradesh 


Satha 


Nagod 


The seulpture shows 3 Shri Lal Singh and Sbri 
prince seated and pla Gopal Singh , local 
ying on a vida and two Thakurs of village Pat 
men dancing . It bears aora . 
two inscriptions in the 
Brahmiscript of Sunga 
period ,which read res 
pectively . Yambuma 
Doavayesa Jatakam and 
oedisa ayamaya tona 

rava . 
A rail pillar with a central Disputed sculptures claj - 

medallion presenting a med by the following 
royal group or assembly brothers Urmila Pra 
and a horse , with the tap Singh , Virendra 
half medallion on tap Pratap Singh , Kanwar 
sbowing a woman just Shri Pratap Singh and 
above a curtain . On Vijay Pratap Singh . 
the other side of the 
pillar the half meda 
llion presents a similar 
pattern but a man subs 
tituting the woman , 


Bhatenwera 


(PARTII 


SEC.8(ih)] 


3 Madhya Pradesh 


, Satna 


Nagod 


Bhatanwara 


As above. 


and the Central me 
dallion shows a scene 
of a prince shooting 
in the sky . Above 
this is an inscription in 
Brahmi script of the 
Sunga period ; mor 
giramijat mitasadana . 
Size 90 X 12 - 1 / 2 x 

10 - 1 / 2 " . 
A rajl pillar showing a As above 

rider · on burse - fish 
in the centralmedallion 
on one side and on 
the other Ovo crabs 
clutching to men . 
There is also an ing 
cription in Brahoni 
script of the Sunga 
period , whici reads 
Rarahakata utaraga 
dhikasa thabhoda . 
Size 65- 1 /2 " X11 - 1 /2 

X 12 . 
A coping piece with cep - ; As above. 

tral portion well pre 
served , showing in the 
bights of the Kalpavalli , 
mountain climbers and 
elaborate Kanthi , or 
nec let and earrings 
both circular ones and 
a long karanaveshtina . 
Towards one end , 
the tail of an elephant 
is visible though the 
rest of the figure has 
been chiselled off for 
using the piece as a 
beam . This is also 
fixed as beam over ca 
pitals of two pillars , 
Size 56 x12 x13 - 1 /2 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:DECEMBER24,1966/PAUSA9,1888 


4 Madhya Pradesh 


Satna 


Nagod 


Bhatanwara 


As above . 


3623 


5 Madhe . Pradesh , Satsa 


Narod 


Bhatapwara 


As above . 


A coping piece , covered As above. 

with accumulated dirt 
and dust but showing 
a series of lotuses and 
a row of bells , a 
common motif at Bbar 
fiut, Size 71 " X13- 1/ 4 * 

13 - 1 / 2 
Octagonal staft of a As above. , 

pillar with an inscription 
in three lines in Brahmi 
script of Sunga period 
which reads : Suganara 
Agaraja torana. Size 
56 . 


Madhyr Pradesh , Saint 


Nagod 


Bhatarrara 


As above, 


36241HLGAZLITZOFINDIA;DICTMBER,24,1966/PAUSA3,BSR 


M 


7 Delbi , 


. 


Delhi 


National 
Muuseum , Nek 
Delhi, 


Shri B . P . Sharma, 34 . 

South Patel Nagar , 
New Dejhi . 


A rectangular panel from 

Bharhut depicting the 
relics of Buddha being 
carried on an elephant 
after the division of 
Felics , It is ja tuo 
fragments. Size of left 
hond piece : 48 - 3 /4 X 
11- 1 / 2 " . Size of right 
hand piece : 52 - 3 / 4 " > 
II- 1 / 2 " . 


The panel for the 
purchase of which the 
National Museum is 
negotiating, is said 
to bave been purchased 
by Shri B . P . Sharma 
from Shri Urmila Pratap 
Singh , ROK residing 
in the Gechi at Bhatan 
para , Tehsil Nagod , 
District Satna , Madhya 
Pradesh . 


(No. F .8 - 20 /66 ( C .2 ) CAI (5 ).} 
A , S . TALWAR , Under Secy . 


PRINTED IR DDIS BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , COVERNMENT OF INDIA PRESS , 

My pax O FURLICHTP JY TRE VARAOK OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1995 


PART1- 


