Ho 222 


REGISTERED NO. D. 22 2 


3lRcf 



*wj*rtoni^ 


4Ml|^ 


opn 

2^he (Bazette of <3ndia 


MlfMchK ^ ^thlfiCld 

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


HO 18 ] 

No. 18] 


Hf fwHft, HfJHrrr, ni 5 , 1973/ #hhi 15 1895 , 

NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [ 



^H HHT ^ f^HH MOO HHHT ^ ^ fHHH ?JHH ^ ^ TWT HT Hm> 

Separate paging is given to this part in order that it may he filed as a separate compilation 


HHT II—3—HH-WOl (ii) 

PART n—Section 3—Suh-section (ii) 

(VWT HHTHH #1^) HTVH HTTTV ^ HHTHqt hVt (hH TTWr HHTHHf Vt 

^ nfin nTftwTftjfr aro fttftw unrtn afir w fa q^r n ii 

Statutory orders and notifications issued hy the Ministries of the CJovernment of India 
(other than the Ministry of Defence) hy Central Authorities 
(other than the Administration of Union Territories) 


Htf' iVwft, 24 srriV, 1913 

VT. 1229.—TfHHR 

19f7 (1957 ^ 44) ^ HHT 3 ^3^171 (1) 

Bre (BT) aift (H) ^ hIWtT ^ TT^riH STTRf 
MTHT HHfTR ^fTHlW JT^, HfoTp aifr HFf- 

rkHTf (fHTOT H^ aE^^TT) f^ETH, 1959 ^ 
f:iW 3 (2) <7^ aFH; 3 ^ 3 

'2) JrfrTwriVE' :— 

“(2) lE^ TEFT ^ rf, (1) 

4 art ■rt 

RT^7, TiaH HTw 4 arrtrtf ’iV^rt rtt 77 f'nqw 

t, RT taroRTT f?HlW w4^ irt TWrt rt 4‘, 

TrtarHTT RiTTtir 'd MTi TTaR rt RTW7 7? 7?T rt*. 
aiRt^T rt, ‘irt^rrt ^iViH Tg rtrt qq 77 IVpH t 
aETTT T^ST TiaR- rt 7T?7 7? 7^ ^iTRT- 

HH R^TT rt rtlRTH RTT^ 8^37 HHRTT HlrtHT I" 

[rt. 7 / 2 / 71 -WT 7 H 1 (H)] 

np-. ipuTH, ^7 HTRar 


CABINET SECRETARIAT 
IDepartnicnt of Personnel and Administrative Reforms) 
New Delhi, the 24th Apiil, 1973 

S.O. 1229. —In exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the 
Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 
1957 (44 of 1957) the Government of India hereby substi¬ 
tute the following sub-rule (2) of rule 3 in place of the 
existing Rule 3(2) of the Himachal Pradesh Manipur and 
Tripurn Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) 
Rules, 1959:— 

“(2) Tn the case of States of Himachal Pradesh for the 
purpose of sub rule (1) any person, who is em¬ 
ployed under the State Government in a post out¬ 
side Himachal Pradesh; or 

who has got a permanent home in Himachal Pradesh 
but on account of his occupation he is living out¬ 
side the said state; 

shall be deemed to be residing in Himachal Pradesh for the 
period during v.hich he has been holding such post or living 
outside the State of Himachal Pradesh”. 

[No, 7/2/7I-Ests(C)] 

S. KRISHNAN, Deputy Secy. 


11 G of 1/73—1 


1693 



1694 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


ainV 

^ 29 1973 

WT. 'SJT, 1230.“-«Er: 3fFT^T IR HTITOTT ^ ttth 

t *TT^, 1972 Jf ^ IT^ ‘N'WH- miT ^ 

fVr; 38 '^/TIT PTl^ 4pf’ 

»[)■ ipfftmT ^ 17 ^ «ft ITTR- ^TTOft' Tl^rtRM 

'll '^fTf, WTT^, fr^nw lEiV, 

3ff^r^T^, 1951 TPTT rT^«fk ^RRl 

apEt ®*nrt ^ 

^57^1 4 3WPr V ^■ 

gift Wi, ;3 t[ steJ 

Tl apEtt rE aETEfETT ^ ^7?^ TEor apiETT EE^- 

E# ?T^ ypqhH atErtr «irr El ’ft EETWR 

Eft TETT ^ TfP^ 'TTE fTT aEEPTETT ^ ’EfftE 

ct)l< ui ET ’ETEffETE E^ 

ara: EE, fJW EftrfEEE i^ft EET 10E5 aE^EEE 
?HqhH ETEftr ^TEE aft J^EftTET EEE ftmft 

ift ETE 1? ET EJE Eft fEETE-EET afEET iffEE 

ETfE" Elft artft lift fEE pi ^ EEftE" ft iftE 

Eft Eift ET W I eV e ft fET? ftETfw EftftE EHET ft* I 

[ft, fl. E.-R E./38/72I4)] 

ELECnON COMMISSION OF INDIA 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th March, 1973 

S.O. 1230. —Whereas the Election CommiMion is satisilod 
that Shn Munshti Ram, Son ot Shri Thellu Ram, Village 
Upcrli Batlbopal Post Office Daroka, Tehsil Dehra, District 
Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, a contesting candidate for the 
election held in March, 1972, to the Himachal Pradesh 
Legislative Assembly from 38-Mangwal constituency, has 
failed to lodge an account of his election expenses in the 
manner required by law, as required by the Representation 
of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Mcction Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason oi justificalion for such failure; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Munshi Ram to be disqualified for being chosen, as and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly oi Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. HP-1 A/38/72(4)] 

W. 1331.—EE' ^EEfEE 3tlq|q ^ EETETE EET 
jf Efft, 1972 tft p! V'tiUlUvt uqVi Vqflip EVT ft felt; 
^VnfEE" ft fET 38 ftjleiqivt ftEEfEE'fttf ft ^ETT <4S-i Eft 
ftf' Efttm E71;T ftt EETETE, EPT ertftt, ft. 3E. 
uTey^^H , ^EET tETm, EftWET, frEIW EEft Ek EfE* 
kfirfE aftEtEEE, 1951 EET E^ftftr EERl EE kEEft ^-T 
rjftft^TE Erft yn^fEH ®EEft EE Eiftft ft ft^F 'qiTtgn ^fft 
ft 3t 9i H ^, 


Eft EEi, EW ErftEETT ft, Eft EREEi T^EET E|ft 

ET ft, EEft pf EEETerET ft ftpi EEW EEET TEVt- 
^TW E# fTET ft', 3rft ftfftEE ^EEftr EE E? ft EETVTE Ef 
’lET ft^ ftp EEft ETE pi ^TWEET ft ftEl 'ft?'' EEfft EEW ^ 
k EEft ERI pr aTEETEET ft ftPl Elk 'TEf'E WT ET 

'EmITeM E# ft*, 

anr: anr, eee arftiftptrE ftt wte lo-^ ft ar^^Tnur ft 

ftrEfEE anEftr eee ft Eftftpr etI eee ft 

ft Epr ft ET kEft TTiE ftt fTETEETET aTEET kETE Ek- 

ft TTpE ^ arrft art'r fk ft kE pr anftft ft! ETft?E 

ft ftE Eft ft! EEETftft ft fvTE yEftftE EffEE EHET ft I 

[ft, y?, E.-yr, E,/38/72(3)] 
ORDER 

S.O. 1231.— Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Mani Ram, Son of Shri Amarnath, Village Tandoli, 
Post Office Panditial, District Kangra at TDharamsnlu, 
Himachal Pradesh, a contesting candidate for the election 
held in March, 1972, to the Ilimachal Pradesh Legislative 
Assembly from 38-Mangwal constituency, has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses, as required by the Rep- 
resentution of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

And whereas the said candtdrrte, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission heieby declares the said Shri 
Marti Ram to bo disqualified far being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years from the date of this order. 

[No. HP-LA/38/72(3)] 

wftw 

«ItT. «TT. 12S2.“-EE: fEEfEE arfftE p EETWE ft EET 
ft yft Efft, 1972 ft UTl ypTW TrftiT yftiTTE EET ft kE 
yEftEE ft ypi 67^ftyVpETn yEftEE-^ ft EpTPT Fp! 

ETft 8 W!eEU ft! yft? ft! ftm HE, EPE E. 201, 
4Tft E. 7, EER EE^ET, E^ ETEE, yEET Ruft!, ypTTEE 
EeV, Ek EffikyErE, 19S1 EET E^tfk EET^ Etl yEEEft 
^PT pyy^ iftlk ft EEft ynikd Pe! P ftEE <;iy«E 

Pfft ft ajEW ft ft^, 

ftV, EE:, EEE EiftkETT ft, Eft THEE T^TTET yp! ET^ 
p ft!, EEft! PT araETEp ft yEq pft pee 3teet tW!- 
PTE E# yprr ft, ftl, yEEfEE afTEk P E^ ft! EETOTE 
ft EET ft yp prft W pr WTTEET ft y?TE pfft >TEf<E 
PW p ?ETEfNrE E# ft, 

PT: EIT, EEE arhryEEE ft! ETTT 10-P ft arE/fTW ft 
yEEfEE 3 ITe!e W^Wr EEE ft! p^ yft? pt EEE ft ypft! 
ft! EEE ft ET ypft! THE p! yEETE-EET 3T«-tET ypETE ft 

TTpE ^ pft ftV ftft ft yEE pi ft! ETftET ft ftk 

Eft Eft EEPEhr ft ypi yEftftE E i iftrl PTET ft* I 

[ft. y?. E.-yP, E./67/72(5)1 
ORDER 

S.O. 1232. —Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Inder Singh, Son of Shri Besar Ram, House No. 
201, Ward No. 7, Uttar Samkhetar, Mandi Town District 
Mandi, Himachal Pradesh, a contesting candidate for the 
election held in March. 1973- to the Himachal Pradesh 




1695 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


Legislative Assembly from 67-Jogindei' Nagar conslL 
Uicncy, has failed to lodge an aeeoiint of his election c'sen¬ 
ses in the manner, as required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whejciis the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any rea,son or explanation for the failure and 
the hleetion Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
leason or juslilication for such failure; 

Now, thcrefoic, in 'pmsiiance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Inder Singh to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assrmbly or Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years from the dale of this order. 

[No. HP-I A/67/72(5)l 

^ 21 ^nJVr, 

MIT. 3tT. 1233.—fit? 1950 

smr 13-? ijTTWTT (1) srm nw ifrtWrt ?r »irft 

3iTOiTT, m.? 4 hTwf it, n 

TTTJ iriit 4 WHT tR «ft *ft. 3IT7. nfnr, ROT 

fpir tqRiR ?t i 1973 ^ sFift 

31T^:?rt fPR, ROT iNV TTOT 3fTt?R7 4 

^ RTR T'lq'T^in w m ^ I 

[R. 154/r. R,/73] 

^ft. I??. RRfrRT, rNr 

New iJelhi, the 21st April, 1973 

S.O. 1233_In exercise of the powers confeired by siib- 

seclion fi) of section I3A ot the Representation of the 
People Act, 19 SO, the Election Commission, in consultation 
with the Government of Madhya Pradesh, hereby nominates 
Shri B. R. Dube, Secictary to the Government of Madhya 
Pradesh, Law and Legislative Department, as the Chief 
fclectoial Officer tor the Slate of Madhva Pradesh with 
effect from the 1st May, 1973 and until further orders lire 
Shri L. B Savje granted leave. 

[No. 154/MP/731 
New Delhi, 23rd April, 1973 

S.O. 1234.—-In pursuance of section 106 of (he Represen¬ 
tation of the People Act, 1951, the Election Commission 
hereby publishes the order dated the 27th October, 1972 of 
the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Jabalpur, in Election 
Petition No. 5 of 1971. 

IN THE HIGH COGRT OF MADHYA PRADESH, 
JABALPUR 

Before Honourable Shri Justice Surajbhan Giover. 

Election Petition No. 5 of 1971 

Udhav Singh aged about 44 years son of Shri Diwan 
Singh Raghuvanshi, Advocate, resident of Ashok- 
nagar, tahsil Ashoknagar, District Giina.Petitioner. 

VERSUS 

Shri Madhav Ruo Scindia aged about 26 years, son of 
Late H. H. Jiwaji Rao Scindia, resident of Jai Vilas 
Palace, Jaiyondra Ganj, Gwalior-1, Tahsil and Dis¬ 
trict Gwalior, P.O. Laskar City.Respondent 

Petition under Section 81 of the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951 

1. Shii A. B. Mishra, 

2, Shri P. I,. Dubey, 


3. Shri B. R. Nahata, 

4. Shri J. M. Sood, Si 

5. Shri A, S, Jha. 

Advocates 

Counsel for the Petitioner 

1. Shri K. A. Chitley, 

2. Shri H. G. Mishra, 

3. Shri A. B. Mathur, 

4. Shri A, K. Chitley, 

5. Shri Ranojl Rao Shinde, Si 

6. Shri P, L. Mishra. 

Advocates 

Counsel for the Respondent. 

ORDER 

This is an election petition filed by Udhav Singh 
Ra^uvanshi, an elector of Guna Parliamentary constituency, 
under section 81 of the Representation of People Act, 1951 
(hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act’), challenging the elec¬ 
tion of the respondent, Shri Madhav Rao Scindia, who secured 
2,09,950 votes and was declared elected from the aforesaid 
constituency by the Returning Officer, on the 11th of March, 
1971, at the mid-term Parliamentary Lok Sabha election of 
1971, to be void on the ground that ho had committed cor¬ 
rupt practices enumerated in paragraph 10 of the petition. 

2. There were six candidates who filed their nomination 
papers for the election of the House ot People from Guna 
Parliamentary Constituency and out of these, Sharwa 
Shri Shiv Pratap Singh and Gayaprasad duly withdrew their 
candidature after their nomination papers were found in order 
after their scrutiny, and the remaining four candidates, (1) 
Shri Madhav Rao Scindia, (2) Shri Deorao Krishnarao 
Jadhav, (3) Shri Narayan Singh ‘Albela’, and (4) Shri Bundel 
Singh, ultimately contested the election and secured votes as 
ollows ;— 


1. Shri Madhav Rao Scindia ... 2,09,950 

2. Shri Deorao Krishnarao Jadhav ... 58,860 

3. Shri Narayan Singh ‘Albela . , 17,h56 

4. Shri Bundel Singh ... 7.686 


Shri D. K, Jadhav was sponsored by the Indian National 
Congress led by Shri J. Ram and the respondent obtained 
support of Bhartiya Jan Sangh and contested the election 
on its symbol, 'The Lamp’. Shri Narayan Singh ‘Albela’ 
was sponsored by Hindu Mahasabha and Shri Bundel Singh 
was an independent candidate. 

3, It is alleged by the petitioner that the election of the 
respondent is void on account of corrupt practices committed 
by the respondent, his election agent and by other persons 
with the consent of the respondent or his election agent 
and they are as follows ;— 

(a) That the respondent and/or his election agent had 
incurred and/or authorised expenses in connection 
with the election between the dates of publication 
of the notification calling the election, i.e. the 27th 
January, 1971 and the date of declaration of the 
result, i.e. the 11th day of March, 1971, exceeding 
the prescribed limit of expenses which is Rs. 35,000 
as provided nnder-section 77(3) of the Act read 
with Rule 90 of the Conduct of Election Rules, 
1961, regarding the use of helicopter, by himself as 
detailed in paragraph 10(1) of the petition and 
hiring charges inclusive of fuel and all expenses 
which comes to not less than Rs. 60,000. 

(b) That Shiimati Vijaya Raje Scindia, mother of the 
respondent, who lives jointly with him, visited 
various places in connection with his election as 
detailed in paragraph 10(1) (2) of the petition with 
his consent and the expenses incurred for the use 
of helicopter comes to not less than Rs. 15,000. 

fhese two items make a total of Rs. 75,000. 

4 It is ullegcd that the respondent h.as shown an expendi- 
ure of Rs. 5,000 in his election return for the mse of heli¬ 
copter as having been paid to Shri N. K. Shejwalkar, the 
Treasurer, M.P. Jan Sangh and the receipt obtained for the 





1696 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part It-- 


purpose is ficticious und it does not represent a true state of 
affairs. It is also said that this method was adopted by 
the respondent to save himself from the charge of corrupt 
nractice provided under section 123(6) of the Act, as the 
helicopters were, in fact, hired and procured by the respon¬ 
dent and not by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh or Shri N, K. Shej- 
waikar, and were in his exclusive control in the Jai Vilas 
Palace area at Gwalior. 

5. The second-corrupt practice alleged against the respon¬ 
dent is that he used a large number of motor vehicles, in 
any case, not less than 18 which were hired and procured 
either by himself or by his election agent, Shri Ranoji Rao 
Shinde, a resident of Gwalior, or by the consent of either 
of them and the expenses on this item would approximately 
amount to not less than Rs. 25,000, whereas the expenses 
shown in the election return in this connection is only 
Rs. 9,281.57 P. The places and the dates on which these 
vehicles were used aic detailed in paragraph 10(11) of the 
petition. The petitioner amended his petition vide Court’s 
Order dated 2-8-1972 and alleged that Shri Multanmal 
Surana, Ex. M.L.A. of Ashoknagar, and Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh M.L.A., a candidate who withdrew from the election, 
acted as agents of the respondent during the election and that 
Shri Multanmal Surana was in charge of respondent’s elec¬ 
tion for Ashok Nagar Pargana while Shri Shiv Pratap Singh 
was in charge of Guna Pargana, and both of them had in¬ 
curred expenses on hiring of motor vehicles, their fuel con¬ 
sumption, maintenance and running under the authority and 
with the consent of the respondent and/or his election 
agent. 

6. The last allegation of corrupt practice alleged against 
the respondent is regarding undue influence under section 
123(2) of the Act as detailed in paragiaph 10(111) (TI) of 
the petition and which is as follows :— 


alleged against him, either by himself or by his election agent 
or with the consent of any one of them. The respondent, 
while denying the allegations, made in paragraphs 10 of the 
petition, as regards incurring of expenditure exceeding the 
prescribed limit, has avcricd that all the political parties 
opposed to the Indian National Congress led by Shri J. Ram 
had practically participated in the election foi reasons of 
their own quite independently of his election campaign. He 
emphasised that the Bhartiya Jan Sangh incurred expenses 
for its own purpose to propagate its own political ideology 
and policies and it was distinct from his personal election 
campaign, He also avcired that the workers of the Bhartiya 
Jan Sangh did not work for his election nor they worked 
as his agent. He also said that the House of Scindia as well 
us he himself had been very popular with the subjects of the 
erstwhile State of Gwalior and all the nine candidates, who 
contested the Parliamentary Lok Sabha mid-term election, 
and who had the support of the respondent and his mother, 
came out successful and not a single candidate lost the 
election. As the respondent had his own independent elec¬ 
tion machinery for the election campaign, it did not involve 
any large expenditure in excess of the prescribed limit. 

9. As regards hiring of the helicopters and payments made 
therefore, ft is averred that the allegation pertaining to it is 
vague and lacing in material particulars and further more 
that the helicopters were neither hired nor procured by the 
respondent but he himself did accompany one or the other 
leader of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party in-conncction with 
the campaign of the Party within the State of Madhya 
Pradesh and other States as well. He also denied that the 
helicopters were either exclusively or mainly used in con¬ 
nection with his election propaganda and wherever he want, 
he want to propagate the ideology and policies of the Jan 
Sangh Party. He also denied having visited the following 
places shown in paragraphs 10 of the petition on the dates 
noted against them ;— 


(i) That on 23rd of January, 1971, the respondent and 
his associates, Laxminarayan Gupta, M.T„A. Sushil 
Veima M.L.A., Jagdish A.shana and Dhiraj Singh 
and others who were slaying in the Dak Bungalow, 
Pichhore (Shivpuri) threatened Laxman Shastri and 
a dozen of citizens of Pichhore to vote for the res¬ 
pondent, when they had gone there to clarify the 
position regarding the promises made by the res¬ 
pondent on previous occasions and were not ful¬ 
filled, Similarly, it happened with Shri Ravi 
Shankar Dixit, Principal, Chnatrapal Degree College, 
Pichhore, on the same day. 

(ii) That in the midnight of 24th of February, 1971, 
the workers of the respondent of village Sahodari 
forcibly entered the houses of Harijan voters, 
namely Kutariya, Nirpatiya and others and crimi¬ 
nally intimidated them not to vote for the congress 
candidate, Shri D. K. Jadhav. 

(iii) That on the date of poll, i.e. 1st of March, 1971, 
when about 100 Harijan Voters of Sirsi Pachhar 
had gone to cast their votes at police station Saluai, 
tahsU Ashoknagar, these Harijan Voters were cri¬ 
minally intimidated with the consent of the respon¬ 
deat not to vote for the congress candidate; 

(iv) That on or before 22-2-1971, Mohan Prasad Ojha, 
a Congress worker of village Umri, tuhsil Guna was 
threatened at pistol point by the workers of the 
respondent or with his consent by Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh and others of Umri not to vote and convass 
in favour of the Congress candidate; 

(v) That on 21-2-1971, Khcmchand Jain, a Congress 
candidate of village Pironfh, tahsil Kolaras, was 
threatened and criminally intimidated by Rao Saheb 
Ram Singh and others, the workers of the respon¬ 
dent with his consent with dire consequences if he 
voted for the Congress candidate. 

7, The petitioner, therefore, prayed to declare the election 
of the returned candidate .Shri Madhav R.io Scindia. to he 
void on account of the aforesaid corrupt practices alleged 
against him. 


Dates 

Places 


10-2-1971 

Raghogarh 


16-2-1971 

Chanderi and Amola 


18-2-1971 

Isagarh 


23-2-1971 

Guna and Chanderia 


26-2-1971 

Kiimbhiaj, Khonkar, 

Taka- 


ncia, Har-Ki-Mahoo, 
Khatta. 

Kheri- 

28-2-1971 

Pichhore (Shivpurl). 



In brief, he denied having either hired or procured the heli¬ 
copters and incurred the expenditure of Rs. 60,000. He also 
denied that his mother travelled in a helicopter for his elec¬ 
tion and, on the other hand, he has said that she want inde¬ 
pendently for the propaganda of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh 
party. He admitted that the helicopters used to be kept in 
the premises of the Jai Vilas Palace for the convenience and 
at the request of the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party and they 
were not m the exclusive control cither of the respondent or 
his mother. He also denied that Rs. 15,000 wei e incurred 
as expenses by his mother in connection with his election 
us alleged in the petition and the Bhartiya Jan Sangh party 
had incurred the expenditure in the interest of the Party 
and not as an agent of the respondent nor with his consent 
or authority. 

10. As regards the use of motor vehicles, he has averred 
that this alleption lacks in material particulars and more¬ 
over hiring of the vehicles and their use for his election as 
alleged in paragraph 10(11) of the petition is untrue and 
whatever vehicles were used for his election, their expenses 
have been shown in his election return. He has also denied 
that cither Multanmal Surana or Shiv Pratap Singh acted 
as his agent or they were authorised to hire any vehicle and 
purchase fuel for his election. On the other hand, he has 
said that they were working on behalf of the Jan Sangh 
Party. 

11. As regards the last allegation of undue influence, he 
Ms denied it totally alleging that the allegations made in this 
behalf are vague and suffer from material particulars. 


8, The respondent, by way of his written statement, denied 
the commission of any of the aforesaid corrupt practices 


filed an intcilocutory application fNo. 
58 of 1972) dated 3-8-1972 saying that the petitioner, in 




Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, tS9'> 


1697 


piivivgntph 10(111) U(IV) of his petition, made an alle¬ 
gation of corrupt practice against Shri Shiv Pratap Singh, 
who withdrew his candidature after the scrutiny of his nomi¬ 
nation paper was held valid on 4-2-1971, and, therefore, he 
having not been joined as a party to the petition by reason 
of non-compliance with the provisions of section 82(b) of 
the Act, the petition should be dismissed under section 86(1) 
of the Act. The petitioner first expressed that he did not 
want to file a reply but ultimately he filed one dated 28-8-1972. 
He submitted in his reply that he has pleaded no corrupt 
practice against Shri Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph II (TV) 
of his petition and according to him. this paragraph contain# 
two instances of undue influence, one is against one Mohan 
Prasad Ojha, a Congress worker who was said to have been 
threatened at pistol point with the consent of the respondent 
by his worket's and the second instance was that Shri Shiv 
Pratap Singh and others of Umri were threatened not to 
vote and convass in favour of the Congress candidate, 
Shri D. K. Jadhav, and none of these two allegations are 
within the mischief of section 123(2) read with section 2(C) 
of the Act. It was, therefore, not necessary to join him as 
a party in this petition. 

13. The respondent also filed another interlocutory appli¬ 
cation (No. 76 of 1972) accompanied by a true copy of the 
petition said to have been received by the respondent, under 
section 87 read with section 137 of the Act, saying that it 
is noticed that there are erasures and initials at three places 
in paragraph ll(iv) of the petition, but even then it is clear 
that this part clearly makes out that an allegation of corrupt 
practice was pleaded against Shri Shiv Pratap Singh, and, 
therefore, it was prayed that the petitioner be summoned for 
re-cross-examination on the point. The petitioner filed its 
reply dated 12-9-1972 denying the allegation made by the 
respondent, alleging that there are no erasures what-so-cver 
in the original petition and particularly so in paragraph 
11 (iv) of the petition. According to him, the three so-called 
erasures are merely scorings by ink duly initialled by the 
petitioner at the time of filing the petition which is nor¬ 
mally done to correct the typing errors. He also urged that 
no Case for recalling the petitioner for purposes of re-cross- 
examination is made out. 

14. The following issues were framed on the pleadings of 
the parties :— 

ISSUES 

(1) (a) Has the respondent incurred or had authorised 

expenditure which was more than the prescribed 
limit laid down under the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, or the Rules made thereunder as 
detailed in para 10(1) and 10(11) of the Petition? 

(b) Do the allegations made suffer from lack of 
material particulars? 

(2) (a) Did the workers of the respondent with his con¬ 

sent thereaten the voters with injury, and crimi¬ 
nally intimidated them in case they voted for 
D. K. Jadhav as detailed in paragraph 11 of the 
petition, and if so, what is its effect? 

(b) Does this allegation suffer from lack of material 
particulars? 

(3) Is the petition time-barred? 

(4) To what relief, if any, the petitioner is entitled to? 

15. Issue No. 1 (a) This issue is based on the allegations 
made by the petitioner in paragraph 10(1) of the petition. 
Issue No. 2(a) is based on paragraph 11, wrongly numbered 
as 10(111) of the petition. U relates to expenses alleged to 
have been incurred by the respondent and his election agent 
in contravention of section 77 of the Act read with Rule 90 
of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. It says that the 
lespondcnt had used four helicopters from time to time in 
connection with his election and the expenditure incurred or 
authorised by him and his election agent had not been in¬ 
cluded the return of his election expenses, which should not 
have been less than Rs. 60,000 inclusive of hiring charges, 
fuel and all other expenses. It was also alleged that the 
mother of the respondent, Shrimali Vijia Rajc Scindia, had 
also used the helicopter in connection with the election of 
her son and the expenses incurred or authorised in this 
connection must not be less than Rs. 15,000 which do not 
find mention in the election return, F.x-P-2. It is also alleged 
m paragraph 10(11) of the petition that not le.ss than 18 


motor vehicles were used for the purpose of election of the 
respondent as detailed therein and the amount spent there¬ 
fore would not be less than Rs. 25,000 which is not shown 
in the election return. In paragraph li (equivalent to 
Paragraph lO(lIJ) wrongly numbered) it is further alleged 
that the woi keis of the respondent witli his consent threatened 
the persons whose names find place in this paragraph of the 
petition with dire eonsequences in case they voted for the 
rival candidate, Shri D. K, Jadhav and, therefore they were 
guilty of coirupt practice under section 123(2) of the 
Act. 

16. The respondent, in his written statement, as aforesaid, 
has denied the used of helicopters exclusively or mainly for 
the purpose of his election and his reply is that these heli¬ 
copters were hired by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh Party for 
ropagating essentially and mainly their policies and these 
elicopters weie used not only in Madhya Pradesh but iu 
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also. He also said that 
Shrimati Vijia Rajc Scindia did not work for tiis election at 
his instance and/or with his consent. He has, however, 
admitted that the helicopters were kept in the premises of 
Jai Vilas Palace at Gwalior at the request of the Office 
bearers of Bhartiya Jan Sangh to his mother for the con¬ 
venience of the Party. As regards hiring of motor vehicles 
is concerned, the reply of the respondent is that only those 
vehicles were used which find mention in the return of his 
election expenses and the rest of the vehicles alleged to have 
been used in connection with the election of the respondent 
were never hired by the respondent nor with his consent 
or the consent of his election agent and also not under the 
authority or any one of them. He has also denied the 
allegation of corrupt practice of undue influence as alleged 
by the petitioner. 


17. A corrupt practice of inclining excessive expenditure 
is defined in section 123(6) of the .Act. According to sec¬ 
tion 77 of the Act, every candidate at an election shall, 
either by himself or by his election agent, keep a separate 
and correct account of all expenditure in connection with 
the election incurred or authorised by him or by his elec¬ 
tion agent between the date of publication of the notification 
calling the election and the date of declaration of the result 
thereof, both dates inclusive. The maximum amount of 
election expenditure, which may be incurred by a candidate 
for the parliamentary election is laid down in Rule 90 of 
the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, which is Rs. 35,000. It 
is clear from Sec. 123(6) and 77 of the Act that in order 
to be a corrupt practice, the excessive esependiture must be 
incurred or authorized by the candidate or his election agent 
in connection with an election. An expenditure incurred by 
a third person, who is not authorised by the candidate or his 
election agent is not a corrupt practice within the meaning 
of the Act. If any authority is needed for the proposition, 
T may refer to Ranaiiiaya Sinnh i’. BaijnatJi Singh (1955 
S.C.R, 671-A.I.R. 1954 S.C. 749). Also sec Ramdnyal y. 
Brijraj Singh (A.T.R. 1970 S.C. 110) and Mubarak Muzdoor 
r. La! Bahadur [1958(20 E.L.R. 176 (All)] cited with approval 
in Macrai Patodia v. R, K. Birla (A.I.R. 1971 S.C. 1295) 
along with Rananiaya Singh v. B’aiinalli Singh (A.I.R. 1954 
S.C. 749) wherein it was held that expenditure incurred by 
any other agent or person without anything more need not 
be included in the account of return as such incurring of 
expenditure would be purely voluntary (Para, 17 Page 1302). 
It is hardly necessary to say that irregularities in maintaining 
accounts of election expenses is not a corrupt practice. It 
may be even false in material particulars and this will not 
make any difference. A corrupt practice as aforesaid is com¬ 
mitted only when the prescribed limit is exceeded. 


18. It is well established as what standard of proof is re¬ 
quired to establish a corrupt practice. A cornipt practice 
is akin to a criminal charge and it is for the election peti¬ 
tioner to prove corrupt practice pleaded by him and he has 
to discharge the burden satisfactorily and the evidence re¬ 
quired by the petitioner in an election case to prove the 
corrupt practice must be eogant end conclusive. In doing 
■SO, he cannot depend on preponderance of probabilities and 
suspicion in such cases docs not matter. Their Lordships of 
the Supreme Court in Magraj Patodin’s case (supra) in para¬ 
graph 15 have observed as follows ; — 


“In the present appeal we do not propose to go into the 
question whether the evidence adduced by a petitioner in 



1698 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, t973/VATSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II-- 


an election case should establish the case beyond any reason¬ 
able doubt but suffice it to say that that evidence must be 
cogent an conclusive. It is tnie that as observed in Dr. M. 
Chenna Reddy r. V. Ramchandia Rao, C.ivil Appeal No. ll-tf 
of 1968, D/-17-12-1968(SC) that a charge of coriupt prac¬ 
tice cannot be equated to a criminal charge in aU respects. 
While the accused in a criminal case can refuse to plead 
and decline to adduce evidence on his behalf and yet ask 
the prosecution to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt 
such is not the position in an election petition. But the 
fact remains that burden of proving the commission of 
corrupt practice pleaded is on the petitioner and he has to 
discharge that burden satisfactorily. In doing so he cannot 
depend on preponderance of probabilities. Courts do not 
set at naught the apparent verdict of the electorate except 
on good grounds." 

Their Lordships further observed in paragraph 32 as 
follows :— 

“It is true that many times corrupt practices at election 
may not be able to be established by direct evidence 
if\d the commission of those corrupt practices may 
have to be inferred from the proved facts and 
circumstances but the circumstances proved must 
reasonably establish that the alleged corrupt practice 
was committed by the returned candidate or his 
election agent. As mentioned earlier preponderance 
of probabilities is not sufficient.'’ 

ISee also Dr. M. Chenna Reddy v. V. Ranulumdra Rao 
(.968 Dobia's Election Ciwcs, 337 SC; /'w/o istnuh v. Kartar 
■Si/ii'/i (A.l.R. 1966 Supreme Couil; 773) and lafanimih v. 
A'. R. Ocihmiikh 1966(9) Dobia’s ['lection Cases. 452 
SOI. 

19. Now the question arises as to whether the respondent 
or the Bhartiya Jan Sangh hired the helicopters alleged to 
have been tmed in the election in question and who paid the 
hire charges for the same. The next question that wiU arise 
for consideration would be that in ciisc it is found that the 
Bhartiya Jan Sangh hired and paid the hire charges, whether 
the helicopters were used for propagating the policies of 
the Bhartiya Jan Sangh and whether it acted as an agent 
of the respondent for making him successful at the election 

20. The petitioner as P.W. 37, in paragraphs 15 and 16 
ol his statement has very clearly stated that as legards the 
hiring of helicopters and their use as well as payments made 
for the same, he received information fiom Sadiir Jadhav 
and he had no personal knowledge about it. It is pertinent 
to note that Sardar Jadhav is not produced as a witness on 
behalf of the petitioner. The Petitioner has also admitted 
that he made no entjuiries about the hiring and payments 
made in this connection from any one else. The petitioner 
has examined in support of this corrupt practice Harbanshlal 
(P.W. 1), Yogender Sud (P.W. 2), Wing Commander H. K. 
Patel (P.W, 3), Pilot Officers—Chandra Smha Sampat (P.W. 4), 
Ci.titain M. K Kapoor (P.W. 5), K. K. Deb vP’vV. t>). 
S. S. Gill (P.W. 9)—who were in charge of the flights and 
Harbansh Singh (P.W. 7) M. N. Khan (P.W. 8) and Shri 
Ram Cambata (P,W. 38—examined on commission). 

21. The respondent as R.W. 1 himself in paragraph 2 of 
his statement has clearly stated that he did neitner engage 
an> helicoptci for the mid-lerm I ok Sabha election nor did 
he enter into any agreement either with Sanghi Aviation, 
Indore or Delhi or Cambata Aviation Private Limited, 
Bombay, for his election campaign. He, of course, has 
admitted in paragraph 4 of his deposition that on the re¬ 
quest made by Shri Shejwalkar, the then treasurer of the 
M.P. Jan Sangh, he had initiated the talk with Shri Sum 
Cambata (P.W. 38) for the purpose of hiving of the helicon- 
lers by the Jan Sangh. The respondent has also examined 
R. C. Khandelval (R.W. 2) and Homi E. Bhakka (Bakka) 
(R.W. 3). 

27. Harbanshlal (P.W, 1) was in charge of the flying con¬ 
trol Aerodrome, Maharajpura, at the relevant time and he 
has proved the entries in the Air Traffic Control Log book, 
Ex. X P-26 to Ex. P-66, made by either Shri Joseph or him¬ 
self which show (he flights of the four helicopters in ques- 
lion. He has deposed (hat necessary information received 
from the palace on telephone was recorded by him as well 
as Shii Joseph and it was passed to the concerned area con¬ 
trol. These are marked as Ex. s P-70 to P-105. 


23. The travel by a helicopter is not denied by the respon¬ 
dent. He has stated in paragraph 6 of his statement that he 
had travelled the whole area forming the old Madhya Bharat 
and Bhopal regions and according to him, he took his jour¬ 
ney for the purpose of campaign on behalf of the Jan Sangh 
with the consultation of the Jan Sangh workers. 

24. Yogender Sud (P.W. 2) has stated that on 27th 
February, 1971, 600 litres of aviation gasoline was supplied 
to M/s Helicopter Services at Usha Klran Hotel at Gwalior 
vide Ex-P-107 and 5000 litres of aviation gasoline vide Ex 
P-J08. He has no personal knowledge about the transaction 
nor Ex. P-108 is in his handwriting. All that he has said is 
that he contacted Jaisingh who was in charge of Palace 
Garage and collected some empty barrels. It has no bearing 
on the question involved. 

25. Wing Commander H. K. Patel (P.W. 3) was the plan¬ 
ning manager of the Helicopter Services. He has deposed 
that two helicopters were supplied to M/s. Cambata Avia¬ 
tion, Bombay in February and March, 1971 and their num¬ 
bers were VT-DKB and VT-DEN. The captain for the first 
one was Wing Commander Kapoor and for the second one, 
Capt. Sampat. He has also filed the abstracts of journey log 
book. Ex. P-18 and Ex. P-19, which show the jouineys or 
movements or any flight taken by the helicopters and he has 
further stated that to the best of his kiiovvledge, his Com¬ 
pany charged Rs. 1200 per hour from M/s. Cambata Aviation. 
As stated by him in paragraph 19 of his deposition, he is 
unable to say as to who made the payments for the bills of 
the officers who stayed in Usha Kiran Hotel. 

26. Chandra Sinha Sampat (P.W. 4), a pilot officer, is also 
unable to say as to who had borne the boarding and lodging 
expenses which were Incurred in connection with his stay at 
the Usha Kiran Hotel, Gwalior. He has also no knowledge 
as to who hired the helicopters and who made the pay¬ 
ment. 

27. Captain M. S. Kapoor (P.W. 5) also does not know 
what was the daily charges for the stay of the officers in 
charge of the helicopter VT-DKB and according ot him, the 
Company made the arrangement for their stay, In paragraph 
11 of his statement, he has deposed that to the best of his 
knowledge, neither Rajmata nor the respondent had flown 
in the aforesaid helicopter. 

28. The evidence of K. K, Deb (P.W. 6) is also not use¬ 
ful in this connection as he operated in Bhind area and not 
in ShJvpuri and Guna area, 

29. The statement of Harbansh Singh (P.W, 7) is also not 
useful to the petitioner. He is a managing partner in the 
Associated Automobiles Gwalior. He has stated that M/s. 
Sanghi Aviation, Indore and Delhi purchased 10 barrels of 
aviation fuel from the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. on 22nd 
February, 1971 and the quantity of fuel was 2000 Kgs. and 
the payment was made vide Ex. P-116. He of course has 
said that he had written a letter for the retuin of empty 
barrels to the Chief Secretary to the respondent vide Ex. P-121. 
He has also stated that he arianged for the fuel as he was 
approached by a representative of M/s. Sanghi Aviation, 
Indore and he received the payment from he representative, 

30. M. N. Khan (P.W. 8) was at the relevant time a 

Depot Superintendent on behalf of the Indian Oil Corporation 
at Gwalior and he received 5000 litres of aviaiion oil vide 
Ex. P-108, He is not in a position to teU as to who 
had placed the order for the fuel and who paid 

for the same. He also deposed that the fuel 

in question was being taken by the representative of the heli¬ 
copters at Gwalior but he did not remember whether those 
representatives were those of Sanghi Aviation Indore or 
C^imbata Private Ltd. Bombay. His evidence does not in 
any way cannect the respondent either with the purchase of 
fuel for the use of the helicoptci s in question oi in making 
the payment for the same. 

31. The evidence of S. S. Gill (P.W. 9) is also of no con- 
.sequence as regards either for the hiring or making payment 
for the use of helicopters. 

32. Now, only remains ihe evidence of Shri Sam Cambata 
(P.W. 38) who is the Director of M/s. Cambata Aviation 
Privalc Limited, Bombay. He has deposed that he had an 
initial talk with the respondent regarding the supply of 



Sec. 3(ii) J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


helicopters for election work and he was told that the res¬ 
pondent and his mother, who '.vere being sponsored by the 
Jan Sangh Party, would contest the election. In paragraph 
13 of his .statement, he has deposed that Wing Commander 
Hosbali, who unfortunately died on 24th of May, 1971, 
finalised the negotiations but there is no written record with 
the Company, Wing Commander Hoshali was then the 
Commercial Manager of the Company and it was one of his 
functions to finalise the contract. He has also deposed that 
the operation of the helicopters was for Madhya Pradesh and 
Rajasthan and he is no sure whether any of the helicopters 
operated in Utter Pradesh. In paragraph 16 of his state¬ 
ment, he has deposed that apart from the Initial talk with 
the respondentj he had no personal knowledge of the subse¬ 
quent negotiations and he also testified that the payment 
was made at Gwalior and the details of payments were know 
to Shri R. S. Cambata and the accounts " department of 
his Company The evidence of .Shri Cambata (P, W. 381 
does not in any way connect the respondent with either 
hiring of the helicopters or in making the payments for the 
same. On the other hand, the statements of R.C. Khandel- 
wal (R.W. 2 and Bakka (R.W. 3) clearly show that the 
helicopters in question were hired by the Jan Sangh Party 
and the payment also was made by the Party. R. C. Khan- 
delwal (R.W. 2) was at the relevant time working as a 
Secretary for M/s Sanghi Brothers, Indore, Private Ltd. 
in the year 1971. Sanghi Aviation is a division of the said 
Company which had helicopters in 1971. He has deposed 
that he entered into an agreement with Madhya Pradesh 
Ian Sangh vide Hx. R-18 which is on record of Ex. P-No. 4 
of 1971 and its true copy is marked in this case ns Ex. R-23. 
According to him, the original agreement was signed by 
Shri Shcjwalkar as well as by him in the presence of each 
other at Gwalior. He has also deposed that Shri Shejwalkar 
gave an advance of Rs. 40,000 in cash in this beh^f and 
he passed a receipt Ex. P-24, the original of which is Ex. P- 
20 filed in Election Petition No. 4 of 1971, and it bears his 
signature. He has also deposed that he received the balance 
of Rs. 51,375 at Bhopal by a cheque from some one at the 
Jan Sangh Office and the original receipt Ex. R-22 is filed in 
Election Petition No. 4 of 19/1 and its true copy is Ex. R'25 
in this case. The original receipt bears the seal of Sanghi 
Brothers and it bears the proper stamps. He has further 
stated that both the payments were made to him and they 
are shown in the cash book for the year 1970-71. At page 
485 of the account book, there is an entry for the payment 
of Rs. 40,000 in cash and it is dated 12-2-1971. The original 
account book was marked Ex. R-26 and its true copy is 
also marked in this case as Ex. R-26. He proves that the 
entry in question is in the handwriting of Deshraj Duwa who 
was the accountant of the Company at the relevant time and 
he has identified his signatures. He has further deposed that 
the payment of Rs. 51,375 finds place in the cash book of 
Delhi office on 4th of November, 1971. This entry is in 
the handwriting of Seth, an account of the Delhi office. 
The original entry is marked Ex. R-27 in E.P. No. 4 of 
1971 and its true copy is also marked in this case as Ex. R- 
27. There is further corroborating evidence that both the 
payments are entered in the ledgers for the year 1970-71 and 
1971-72, These entries are marked as Ex. R-28 and Ex. R- 
29, respectively. He also testified that the entry Ex. R-29 is 
in the handwriting of Seth. He has also deposed that these 
books were kept m the regular course of business and they 
are audited by the chartered accountant and this toal amount 
of Rs. 91.375 finds place in the balance sheet for the year 
1970-71 which is marked as Ex, R-30. 


30. In paragraph 9 of his statement, he has clearly stated 
that Sanghi Brothers (Indore) Private Ltd. has no business 
relationship with the respondent and this is what the respond- 
dent himself has also said in his deposition. He has also, 
in paragraph 10, made it clear that he had no negotiations 
whatsoever regarding the contract in question with the res¬ 
pondent and he has gone to such a length to say that he may 
nut even be able to recognise him. In p.Tiagraph 12 of bis 
statement, he has also made further clear that he had no 
negotiations as regards the hiring of the helicopters with 
anybody else except with Shri Shejwelkar and in paragraph 
13 he has made it clear that the correction in Ex. R-18 filed 
in Election petition No. 4 of 1971 at portion A to A was 
made while changing the word ‘President’ to the “Treasurer" 
in his own handwriting at the time when the agreement was 
executed and its true copy Is marked Ex. R-23 in this peti¬ 
tion. 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, ia95 1699 


34. Shri Nahata, learned counsel for the petitioner, has 
Vehemently criticised the evidence of R.C. Khandelwal (R.W. 
2) on the ground that the entries made in the cash b^k 
‘"’‘i. should not be relied on as .some pages in the 

cash book arc unnumbered and there are some erasures In 
some pages have been added afterwards and 
further more, the receipt for the amount received was given 
on ati ordinary paper and not on the numbered printed re¬ 
ceipt of the Company. He also urged that tlie accounts are 
not kept irregular course of the business with the result that 
R.C. Khandelwal is not a reliable witness and these entries 
were made to help the respondent in his election after tho 
ticction was over. 


35. Shri K. A. Chitley, learned counsel on the other side, 
has contended that the agreement in question was entered 

Shri Shciwylkor Q,t Gwfilior wiiich besrs the 
lures of both of them. R. C. Khandelwal (R. W. 2) is an 
mdependent witness and when he gave the statement he was 
not in the services of M/s. Sanghi Brothers (Indore) Private 
Ltd but he was on his way to join as Financial Director 
with Ivhandelwal and Herrumn Electronics Private Limited 
iiombny and his oral evidence finds support in the entries 
made m the cash book as well as the ledger with the result 
mat ho IS a reliable witness. 

36. I have given my careful fiiought to the contention 

raiMd before mo by Shri Nahata and in my view, there is 
“S discredit the statement made by R. C. Khandelwal 

u y,', 2) fls he has been cross-examined at length and he 

has fully met the objections raised by him as regards the 

issuance of the receipt for the amount received by him not 
on a printed receipt in paragraph 25 of liis 
Jtulemcnt by saying that if he had taken tue 
receipt book from the Head olficc. it would not 
have ^en possible for the Accountant to issue receipts in 
the office as he had to issue 20 to 25 receipts daily. He has 
also abMlutely denied the suggestion that Ex. R-18 and Ex. 
c ^ 1971 and the duplicate receipt marked 

EX. P-289 m this ease were made after the election petition 

was filed and he has also explained as to how the word 

Indore’ in the duplicate copy. Ex. P-291, was not typed while 
It exhisted m the original vide his statement in paragraph 31 
of his deposition. It is worthy of note that Sanghi Brothers 
(Indore) Private Ltd. having whatsoever no business con¬ 
nection with the respondent why they would go to such a 
len^h to oblige him by making false entries in the account 
books Cither st Indore or Delhi, There Ijj no material whatsoever 
to discredit the statement made by R. (i. Khandelwal (R.W. 
2) and 1 find him a reliable witness and the criticism levelled 
against his testimony is without any substance. 

37. Homi E. Bhakka (Bakka) (R.W. 3) was at the rele¬ 
vant time working with Cambata Aviation Private Limited 
as an account and he has depored that the Bhartiya Ian 
Sangh had made the payments to his Company for hiring 
the helicopter in 1971. According to him. Ex. R-l-C which 
is Ex. R-31 in E.P. No. 4 of 1971 indicates the payment of 
Rs. 1,40,000 by the Bhartiya Jan Sangh by a demand draft 
drawn on the Central Bank of India and Rs. 200 was paid 
in cash. This entry is in the handwriting or one G. G. Misfrv 
who was his assistant accountant at that time and he has 
identified his handwriting. The corresponding ledger cntiy 
is reflected in the Sundry Creditors and Customers Ledger 
for the year 1970-71 at page 113 of the said register. This 
entry is marked as Ex. R-2-C which was already marked as 
R 32 in E.P. No. 4 of 1971. This entry is also in the hand¬ 
writing of G. G. Mistry which he has identified. 

38. The second and the balance payment made by the 
Bhartiya Jan Sangh is shown in the receipt side in the cash 
book of Cambata Aviation Private Linntcrl lor the year 
1971-72 on 30-4-1971 at page 7 of the said register. This entry 
shows the payment of Rs. 2,16,000 by a cheque drawm 
on the Central Bank of India. The cheque was discounted 
with the Union Bank of India, Bombay and an amount of 
Rs. 2^15,568 was credited to the account of M/s. Cambata 
Aviation Private Limited and the difference of the bank 
charges came to Rs. 432. This entry in the cash book is 
in his own handwriting and is Bx. R-3-C, which was Ex. R- 
33 in E.P, No. 4 of 1971. The corresponding ledger entry 
is reflected in the Sundry Creditors and Customers Ledger for 
the year 1971-72 which is marked as Ex. R-4-C equivalent 



1700 THE GAZETTE OF JxNDlA ; MAY 


to Ex. R'34 in E.P No. 4 of 1971. This entry in the ledger 
is also in the hand writing ol G. G. Mistry. He has also 
deposed that all these account nooks arc maintained in the 
Ordinary course or business and the account books for the 
years 1970-71 have been audited and for the year 1971-72 
were under the process of auditing when they were produced 
before the Court in Eicction Petition No. 4 of J971. In 
paragraph 7 of his statement, ho has testified that Wing Com¬ 
mander Hoshali was the Commercial Manager of M/s. 
Cambata Aviation Private Limited and Ex. R-28 and Ex. R- 
29 in E.P. No. 4 of 1971, the true copies of which were 
marked by the Commissioner us Ex. R-5-C and Ex. R-6-C, 
respectively bear the signature of Hoshali. He has deposed 
that he was acquainted with the signature of Wing Com¬ 
mander Hoshali and both the receipts were signed oy him 
and they are on the letter-head of M/s. Cambata Aviation 
Private Limited. Ex. R-5-C is a receipt issued for the pay¬ 
ment received by the said firm from Bhartiya Jan San^ 
which relates to the cash book entry in E.x, R-l-C and the 
ledger entry in Ex. R-2-C. Siitiilarly, Ex. R45-C relates to 
cash book entry Ex. R-3-C and the ledger entry Ex. R-4-C. 
He has also stated that the cheque, demand draft, and the 
cash of Rs. 200 were handed over to him by the then Ma¬ 
naging Director, Shrl R. S, Cambata for peing deposited in 
the Bank, 

39. Shri Nabata, learned counsel for the petitioner, has 
also criticised the evidence of H. E, Bakka and uigcd that 
it should not be accepted as reliable as no written agreement 
was filed on record to prove that it was entered into by Wing 
Commander Hoshali with Jan Sangh. He also further urged 
that Bakka produced only the leceipt side of the cash bwk 
and not the expenditure side and according to him, the cash 
book appears to be a newly prepared one with a view to 
meet the case of the respondent and it is a fabricated one. 
H. E. Bakka (R.W. 3) has been cross-examined at great 
length and it will suffice to say that whatsoever objection 
Shri Nahata had made was fully met in the reply given by 
him in his cross-examination. In reply to the question put 
to him in paragraph 14, he has stated as follows;— 

"Question ; Why the amounts due from Jan Sangh have not 
been reflected in the ledger for 1970-71 when 
the account books have been audited? 

Answer ; The amounts whicli have been received from 
Bhartiya Jan Sangh have been credited to their 
account. The debits to be raised to their 
account have not been done so. The audit for 
the year 1970-71 is carried on. The entries 
pertaining to the cash books (receipts and pay¬ 
ments) have been audited. Cetraln other journal 
entries which have duly to be passed before the 
audit can be said to bo complete had not been 
done when T left." 


H. F, Bakka (R. W. 3) at the time had made the state¬ 
ment was not in the service of M/s. Cambata Aviation Pri¬ 
vate Ltd. but was serving with Messrs. M. S. Cusder and 
Company Private Limited and in his cross-examination, he 
has fully explained as to why some of the pages of the cash 
book were not numbered. Hir evidence too is worthy of 
credence and the criticism levelled against him by Shri 
Nahata is not of any consequence. 

40. It is notworthy that it was for the petitioner is prove 
that the helicopters were, in fact, hired by the respondent 
and the payment was also made by him but the petitioner 
neither made any efforts to make an enquiry in this connec¬ 
tion nor he has examined Sardar Jadhav to prove this fact, 
who was his source of information. On the other hand, the 
respondent not only has denied the allegation made against 
him in this behalf orally but has also produced tv/o witnesses, 
R. C, Khandelwal (R. W. 2) and H. E. Bakka (R. W. 3) 
along with the documentary evidence which I find reliable. 
I, therefore, come to the conclusion that the helicopters 
were hired by the Madhya Pradesh Jan Sangh and the pay¬ 
ments regarding hire charges were made by it as aforcs^d. 

41. The next question that arises for decision in this con¬ 
nection is whether the Jan Sangh hired tliese helicopters for 
the use of the Party propagantia and propagation of their 
policies or primarily or principally for the promotion of the 
interest of the retinned candidate. The petitioner (P. W. 37) 
in addition to himself has examined Dhanilram constable 
(P.W. 12), Kailash Chandra Sharma (P. W. 13), Sardar 


5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II-- 


Avtar Singh (P. W. 14), Mujib-ul-Rahman (P. W. 15). Hai- 
bhajan Singh (^P. W. 16), Dig Vijay Singb (P. W. 19), 
Abdul Khan (P.W. 20), Meharbonsingh (P.W. 21), Shanti- 
lal Jain (P.W. 23), Tarajan (P.W. 25), Virendra Singh 
(P. W. 25) and Santkumar (P. W. 28) to prove the speeches 
made by the respondent in connection with his election and 
the respondent, in rebuttal, has examined himself as R, W. 1. 

42. The petitioner as P. W, 37, in paragraph 5 of his 
statement has said that the Jan Sangh workers did not work 
for the respondent in his constituency for his election and 
the helicopters were not used for the purpose of propagation 
of the political Ideologies of the Jan Sangh but it was for 
the election of the respondent. In paragraph 9 of his state¬ 
ment, he has furthef deposed that he had kept no note re¬ 
garding the visit of Rajmata and the respondent of Ashok- 
nagar and the speeches made by each one of them. He also 
did not ask any one to give him the gist of the speeches 
made by each one of them nor did any one give him any 
such gist. In paragraph 11 of his statement, he has admitted 
that he worked for Sardar Jadhav, a rival Congress candi¬ 
date and he did inform him about the corrupt practice said 
to have been committed by the respondent but for reasons 
best known to him, Sardar Jadhav was not produced as a 
Witness. It is pertinent to note that the petitioner is an active 
Congressman. He was interested in the election of the rival 
candidate, Sardar Jadhav and his evidence has, therefore, to 
be scrutinised carefully. 


43. The petitioner has heard no speech made either by the 
respondent or his mother. So as regards the speeches said 
to be made by the respondent, he has no personal knowledge. 
His own witness, Captain Sampat (P. W. 4), who was flymg 
the helicopter VT-DEN, which was the only helicopter used 
by the respondent mainly in his constituency, has deposed 
in paragraph 12 of his statement that he always carried two 
passengers in his each flight when on campaign, as detailed 
in Ex. P-17, and there was an emblem of ‘Deepak’ put out¬ 
side his helicopter. In paragraph 13, he has said that at 
99 places out of 100, where he had landed, there used to be 
a saffron flag of Jan Sangh waiving at the place of landing. 
He also stated that he used to be given a day previous to 
the flight a programme of the places to be landed. He has 
also said that wnenevei he flew, a programme for flying was 
given by the Ex. Maharaja and sometimes he was called by 
the E.X. Maharaja and the whole programme used to be 
discussed with the Jan Sangh leaders and v,/hen he gave 
his final approval for the feasibility for the flight, it used to 
be finalised and then the programme used to be given to 
him. He has also deposed that the pro^amme was to be 
finalised sometimes by the respondent with the previous con¬ 
sultation of the Jan Sangh memWs and sometimes the con¬ 
sultation took place in nis presence. In paragraph 15, he 
has also said that once Shri Ramnath Goenka accompanied 
the respondent and at another tune, there was one Scheduled 
caste candidate around the Ujjain area. On 21st February, 
1971, Ramnath Goenka accompanied the Ex-Maharaja from 
Mungawali to Abdulla Ganj and Rajmata had never flown in 
his helicopter. As regards the speeches, made by the res¬ 
pondent, he has deposed in paragraph 16 as follows — 

"Sometimes I had heard the speeches made by the Ex- 
Mahaiaja Gwalior. It is con'ect to sw that he 
advocated for the general policies of the Jan Sangh, 
He also criticised the Congress Government policies. 
It is correct to say that people gave him great reve¬ 
rence. I cannot say whether the Ex-Maharaja at 
any time in his speech asked the people to vote for 
himself.” 

In paragraph 19 of his statement, to the court question, 
he has made it clear that he is definite that the respondent 
had never flown alone during the election campaign. 

44. Captain Kapoor (P.W. 5) was in charge of helicopter 
VT-DXB and he has stated that he did not fly in the Guna 
area. In Paragraph 12 of his btatement he has deposed that 
on 27-2-1971, there is a mention in his log book. Ex. P-16 
(filed in E.P. No. 4/71) that pamphlets were dropped locally 
and it is correct, though they were of Jan Sangh, In para¬ 
graph 13, he has also testified that there were always two 
passengers with him and those were of Jan Sangh. Shri Atal 
Bihari Bajpai had also flown with him and at most of the 
places, he had landed, he found yellow flag waiving and the 
area for the land was earmarked with vcllow flac and 
‘Deepak’ symbol. 



1701 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 


45. Captain K- K. Deb (P. VV. 6), a pilot officer in the 
service of Messrs. Sanghi Aviation, Delhi, has deposed that 
he did not operate in Shivpuri and Guna region and 
In paragraph 13, he has also similarly said that two person 
had always flown with him and they were also introduced to 
him as Jan Sangh leaders. 

46: S. S, Gill (P. W. 9), another pilot officer in charge of 
helicopter VT-DTW, had flown to different places vide 
Journey I-og Book, Ex. P-129 and Ex. P-130 (filed in Elec¬ 
tion Petition No. 4 of 1971) copy of which is Hx. P-129 
and Ex. P-130 in this case which he has proved. He has 
also dwosed that Ramnath Goenka, Ex-Maharaja of Naf- 
singh darh, Shri Atal Bihari Bajpai, Hnkiimchand Kachh- 
waha had travelled with him and he also always carried two 
passengers in his flight and the passengers flying intro¬ 
duced to him a.s members of the Jan Sangh. In paragraph 
10 of his statement, he has deposed as follows:— 

“I always carried in the flight two passengers. The 
persons travelling were introduced to me because 
it is a general practice. They were introduced as 
Jan Sangh leaders. 1 was asked by my Company 
to fly to Bhopal and when T landed at Indore for 
fuel, one person accompanied me and he told me 
that he was from Ian Sangh, I do not remember 
his name. When 1 landed a bit late at Indore, 1 
was told by the Aerodrome Officer that there was 
an enquiry from Jan Office at Indore. When 
I landed at Bhopal, I met about 8 or 10 persons at 
the aerodrome. 1 was introduced with Sardar 
Angre there and the other persons were with saffron 
caps and party badges of Deepak.” 

In paragraph 11, he has ag[ain said that he does not know 
who prepared the plan for flymg but the person who gave the 
plan to him was from Jan Sangh party, 

47. These pilot officers are the witnesses produced by the 
petitioner himself and they are independent witnesses and 
there is no reason to disbelieve any one of them and I find 
that whatever they have stated is reliable. 

48. Dhanjiram cpnstable (P. W. 12) has stated that the 
respondent accompanied by his wife had gone by a helicop¬ 
ter at 6 P.M, to Dongeshwar and addressed an audiance say¬ 
ing that he was standing for the election and they should 
vote the person to whom they may consider fit. He did 
not make a note of the speech. He also did not make a re- 
p<^ at the police station though he was on duty on that date. 
His evidence otherwise is of no consequence. 


49. Knilssh Chandra Sharma (P.W. 13) is an Advocate 
and an interested witnesses as he had worked for the election 
m question for the rival candidate. In paragraph 9 ot his 
statement, he has stated about the speeches made by the 
Rajmata and the respondent. According to him, Rajmata 
addressed for about two and a half hour while the speech 
of the respondent lasted for about an hour. It is ridiculous 
to believe that both the mother and the son would only say, 
if he was at all present in any of the meetings, that their 
ancestors had served them well and they should vote for the 
respondent. His evidence i.s of no consequence simply on the 
ground as stated by him in paragraph 7 that he had no talk 
with the petitioner during the rnid-term Lok Sabha election 
of 1971, add that he had also no talk with him regarding 
the election petition and (hut he only came to the Court 
in obedience of the summons served on him. It is surprising 
that how ho came to give evidence to this effect. In para¬ 
graph 15, to a court question, he has admitted that speeches 
made by both of them must have been published m the 
local papers, Dainik Bhaskar, published from Gwalior and 
it gave the gist of the speeches made by them and it was 
almost a reproduction of their speeches but it i,s surprising 
that the petitioner has dot been able to produce the best 
evidence on record. 

50. Sardar Avtar Singh (P.W. 14), who was also work¬ 
ing for the rival candidate, has deposed in paragraph 2 of his 
statement that the respondent had said in his speech to vote 
for him as his ancestors had done good work for them. 

n G of 1/73—2 


He also critisised the Congress and looking to the cross- 
examination in paragraph 4, his evidence also suffers from 
the same infirmity that he did not inform the petitioner that 
he hiul heard the respondent’s speech as deposed to by 
him in his statement, although he had occasion to meet him. 

51. The statement of Miijib-nl-Rahman (P.W. 15) also 
suffers from the same infirmity as deposed to by him m 
paragraph 7 ol his statement that he had no talk with the 
petitioner regarding the raid-term Lok Sabha election. It is 
really surpr.^ing, how he came to appear as his witness. More¬ 
over, in paragraph 9, he admits that he is an illiterate person 
and does not remember the date of arrival of the respon¬ 
dent nor the month. 

52. Harbhajan Singh (P. W. 16) in paragraph 2 has stated 
that the respondent had addressed an audiance consisting 
of about 100 persons by saying that his ancestors had 
served the public and they should vote for him. He is also 
an active worker of the Congress and supported the rival 
candidate and his evidence also requires proper scnitiny. In 
paragraph 6 of his statement, he has admitted that he did 
not hear the respondent saying the audience to remove the 
Congress and to form the Government of Jan Sangh because 
of the noise in the crowd and if it is so, then it is difficult 
to say a.s to what the respondent had said, whether he could 
and did undersland even the gist of the speech said to have 
been made by the respondent. 

53. Dig Vijay Singh (P, W. 19), appears to be a reliable 
witness. He is an hx-Raja of Rughogarh, a Jagir, in the 
erstwhile State of Gwalior and according to him, he was 
very close to the Gwalior house. In paragraph 2 of his 
statement, he has deposed as follows:—What Respondent 
had said in a meeting in his presence; 

“I am contesting the election for the first time and that 
the Congress Government was corrupt at the 
Clentro, and therefore, we should form our group 
of our own Government and this is why 1 should 
be voted for. "in my speech, I said, "Looking to 
om close relations with the Gwalior house and that 
the respondent was contesting the election for the 
first time, therefore, we should vote for him”. I 
did not belong to any political party in the year 
1971 February." 

In parayraph 5 he has said that he had visited with the 
re'-pondenl different places and in paragraph 6 he has further 
said that It was true that in the erstwhile State of Gwalior, 
all the candidates .set up for the Lok Sabha a.s well as 
Vidhan Sabha elections by the respondent and his mother 
were practically all successful and the same thing ha.s been 
stated in paragraph 7 of his stalcrqent. In paragimph 10, he 
has further said (hat whenever Rajmata and the respondent 
had addressed the meeting, it attracted a large crowd and 
there were large number of Jan Sangh flags and the local 
Jan Sangh loaders also used to be present and they also 
used to address the meetings. So far as he knew, the res- 
ondent is a strong supporter of Jan Sangh. His evidence 
dies the evidence of the aforesaid witnes.r who have 
only deposed thaat no Jan Sangh workers wa,s present at the 
meeting and no Jan Sangh flags were displayed there and 
also that the respondent did not say anything about the Ian 
Sangh. In paragraph 11, he has made it clear that when¬ 
ever he had accompanied the respondent, ho criticised the 
Congress and supported the Jan Sangh. Although after the 
mid term Lok Sabha Election, he has joined the Congress 
party, his statement as a whole appears to be reliable. 

54. Statement of Abdul Khan (P.W. 20) is believed by the state¬ 
ment of Shri Dig Vijay Singh (P, W. 19), Ex-Rao Raja of 
Raghogarh and according to him, the Ex-Rao Raja was 
present in the meeting about which he had made the state¬ 
ment. 

55. Meharbansingh (P. W. 21) has also stated the same 
thing that the respondent came to Guna in the third week of 
February, 1971 and mode a sp^ch criticising the Congress 
and praised the work done by his ancestors and this is what 
the Rajmata had said when she came to Guna in the first 
week of February, 1971. In paragraph 6 of his statement, 
he has deposed that he had told the petitioner regarding the 



1702 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part TI— 


meetings he had attended of hi* ovm accord and no enquiry 
to this effect was made by him. He has also further said 
that he had no knowledge that the petitioner wanted to file 
an election petition. It appearas un-natural and his evidence 
does not inspire confidence. It i* pertinent to note that 
there was a local paper Vir Abhimanyu published from 
Gnna as stated by him to a Court question in paragraph 
y. He also said that he remembers to have read in the 
Dalnik Bhaskar as well a* in Hamari Awa/ the gi.st of the 
speeches made by them and it appears to be 

natural. Even so, there seems no reasons why the copies 
of these daily papers were not produced in Court which 
would have been the best evidence to give the gist of the 
speeches said to have been made by the respondent and 
his mother. In the circumstances, his evidence does not 
inspire confidence. 

56. Shantilal Jain (P.W. 23) in paragraph 2 of his state¬ 
ment has deposed as follows;— 

“The respondent had said, ‘There were closed relations 
between the Raj Family and the public. Congress 
has done great harm to you. My mother has com¬ 
mended me to stand for the election for your ser¬ 
vice from this constituency. I am sure that you 
people would vote for me, and for that purpose he 
exhorted the audiance to raise their hands and 
majority of the person thus raised their hands". 

He has admitted in paragraph 9 of his statement that he 
had submitted to Ratanlal Lohati, who was then the Congress 
President of the District Congress Committee, Guna, a 
report regarding the visit of the respondent and the meeting 
held by him and the total number of persons who had 
gathered there. This report should have been the best evi¬ 
dence for the purpose but for an interested witness as he is, 
it looks that he has not made a truthful statement and the 
etitioner did not produce the best evidence which could 
nve been available to him for the purpose. 

57. The statement of Tarachand (P.W. 24) is also of no 
consequence. He has stated that the respondent addressed 
the meeting on 4th February, 1971 which he could not have 
done so. as the election campaign was not allow¬ 
ed on that day and according to him, the Sub- 
Inspector of police and other police officers were also present 
and it is really surprising that no report to this effect was 
made. His evidence appears to be a tutored one and no 
reliance can be placed on it. 

58. Virendra Singh (P.W. 25) has deposed that Rajmala 
had come alone by a helicopter in the first week of Febru¬ 
ary, 1971, to his village Badora and addressed a meeting 
saying that in their rule, people wore happy and thus re¬ 
quested the public to vote for her son who contesting the 
election. His evidence is also of the same type and more¬ 
over, there is no material to show that whatever she did, 
at all with the consent of the respondent or his election agent. 

59. Santkumar (P.W. 28) in paragraph 4 of his statement 
has only stated that in 1971 election, Jan Sangh candidates 
were successful because of the influence of the respondent 
and it is correct to say that the house of scindias was very 
popular in his region. Even the petitioner has admitted this 
m paragraph 20 of his statement. 

60. The respondent as R.W. 1,, in paragraph 9 of his 
itatement has stated as follows;— 

"The pattern of my speeches was practically the same 
throughout the area I had covered including my 
constituency and that I was talking about the cor¬ 
ruption in the Congress and about the mal-admi- 
nistration resulting in the present conditions and, 
therefore, I pleaded to build up a viable alternative 
to the Congress, (Whatever I meant by Congress, 
I was a Congress led by Jagjivan Ram) to help 
and strengthen Jan Sangh. I did not make any 
ersonal appeal to the people to vote for me as 
had known the area so well and there wa.s no 
need for it as at reflected in the election result. I 
have confidence in my electorates." 


In cross-examination, in paragraph 73, he has further 
stated as follows:— 

‘The particulars of the Jan Sangh Ideology which I 
was propogating at that time is as follows:— 

(i) Ceiling and the floor for agiiculture holdings 

(II) Encouragement for Small Scale and Medium 
Scale Industries, 

(iii) De-liccnsing of Industries. 

(Iv) Cutting down the foreign aid, 

fv) No strings attached to foreign aids, 

(vi) Judging foreign policies on merits and not as 
a member of any foreign culture heritage and taking 

fvii) Revival of our Indian culture heritage and taking 
pride in it, and others." 

61. Now, the question arises as to when a political party 
is said to be acting as an agent of the candidate for the 
election campaign. 

62. Shrl Nahta, learned counsel for the petitioner, has 
very strenously argued while inviting my attention to Ex. 
P-9, Ex. P-10, Ex. P-14. Ex. P-15 and Ex. P/2/I0 in Ex. 
P-2 that the respondent used helicopters VT-DEN sixty hours 
in Guna constituency out of the 90 hours it had flown and 
taking into account the speeches said to be made by him, he 
was propagating for his own cause and not for the ideology 
or policy of the Jan Sangh as alleged by him. He also In¬ 
vited my attention to Ex. P-67 and Ex. P-69 that the pro¬ 
gramme for the flight was given by the Chief Secretary of 
the respondent and he further urged that even if the payment 
for the use of the helicopter was made by the Jan Sangh, 
which is not very material, and as the respondent had can¬ 
vassed for himself, the hire charges spent for the use of the 
helicopters should be deemed to have been incurred by the 
respondent. He also further urged that Rs. 5,000/- paid v/de 
voucher No, 155 to Shrl Shejwalkar and said to be paid for 
the notional benefit derived by the respondent is a mandc- 
uvre to curtail his expenses which he spent for his election. 
He also invited my attention to the fact that there is a vari¬ 
ance between the pleadings of the respondent and his state¬ 
ment he had made in this connection as R.W. 1. 

63. Shri Chitley, learned counsel on the other hand has 

urged that the mid-term pool was held in 1971 for the gene¬ 
ral parlimentary election and the respondent was very 
popular in the earstwhile State of Gwalior, therefore, the 
Jan Sangh party wanted to take full advantage of his popu¬ 
larity with the result that the helicopters were made avail¬ 
able to the respondent to make him more mobile for tne 
purpose of propagating the ideologies and policies of the 
Jan Sangh and this Is what the respondent has said in his 
written statement. He also stressed that according to the elec¬ 
tion law, there is no restriction placed on the expenses to 
be incurred by a political party for carrying on the pro¬ 
paganda relating to the principles and the policies for which 
the Party stands and it cannot be regarded as expenses in¬ 
curred for and on behalf of the candidate. He also argued 
that the question of agency will not arise unless a request 
is made either by the candidate or his election agent to 
advance the interest of the candidate mainly and this has 
not been proved by the petitioner. He has also referred to 
page 73 of Parker’s Conduct of Parliamentary Elections 
and stressed that what is required to be considered in such 
cases is the intention or the motive of a person and it is 

required to be seen what was the dominant motive. He also 

referred to Helsburry’s Laws of England (Third edition, 

volume 14 at pages 177-179. He has also cited in Support 

of his contention rulings reported in R. V, Tronoh Mines 
ltd. (1952 All E. R. 697), Mast Ram Harnam Singh Sethi 
(7 E. L. R, 301 at page 310), Prabhudas v. Jorsang (13 
H. L. R, 110), Mubarak Mazdoor v, Lai B^adiir (20 
E, L. R. 176 at page 219), B. Rajagopola Rao v, N. O. 
Ranga (A. I. R. 1971 S. C. 267-para 32), Ramdayal v. 
BrliraJ Singh (A. 1. R, 1970 S. C. 110) and Nagra] Pat^la 
V. R. K, Birla (A. I. R. 1971 Supreme Court, 1295). 

64, I have given my careful consideration to the conten¬ 
tions raised before mo and I am clear in my mind that in 
this case, there is no material on record to show that the 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GA:^ETTE OF INDIA; 

Jan Sangh Party acted as an apnt of tha respondent for 
his election work for the reasons I presently show, 

65. Section 100(1) of the Act says that High Court shall 
declare the election of the returned candidate to be void If 
it is proved that any corrupt practice has been committed 
by a returned candidate or his election agent or by any other 
person with the consent of a returned candidate or his 
election agent. In a case reported in Mast Ram v, Harnam 
Singh Sethi (7 E. L. R. 301), the test applied in such like 
cases was whether the expenses to be borne by the political 
party is of the candidate is as follows:— 

‘The test in this case tyas held to be whether the main 
object of the meeting was to promote the election 
of the candidate and that the line must be drawn 
bet^veen meetings called with the direct object of 
advancing the election of the candidate, and mee¬ 
tings called for another object from attendance upon 
which the candidate only derived some indirect or 
remote advantage." 

In Mubarak Mazdoor v. Lai Bahadur (20 E. L, R. 176), 
their Lordships of the Allahabad High Court observed at 
page 219 as follows;— 

‘We may also take notice of an argument which was 
advanced by Mr. Pathak on the basis of the word 
‘‘incurred or authorised" used in Section 77 of the 
Act. The Act uses the word “incurred or authorised” 
and neither of them can mean the same thing as 
the exjiression “with the consent of” The word 
“authorised" is not equivalent to the expression 
"with the consent or in the knowledge of", so that 
the law now requires something more than more 
consent or knowledge of a candidate to the incurring 
of expenses and that something is that the expen¬ 
diture must have been authorised by him or by his 
election agent." 

66. It is clear from the ratio of the rulings cited above 
that in each case, it is a question of fact whether the main 
object of the meeting was to promote the political opinion 
of the party or to promote the election of tne candidate. In 
order to determine this question, it will be proper to consi¬ 
der oral as well as documentary evidence on record. It is 
not in dispute that four helicopters were hired for the elec¬ 
tion work. I have given my findings, as aforesaid, that the 
helicopters in question were hired by the Jan Sangh party 
and the payment was made by the Party. It is also in evi¬ 
dence that out of the four helicopters, helicopter VT-DZN 
was used by the respondent mostiy in Guna constituency. 
Ex. P-15, Ex. P-16. Ex. P-17, Ex. P-155 Ex. P-128 Ex. R-7, 
Ex. R-8 Ex. P-129 and Ex. P-130 show that the other 
helicopters moved ail over the State and t'en went outside 
the State of Madhya Pradesh. 

67. The evidently of the pilot officers of the helicopters, 
as discussed above, docs not need repetition. They are inde¬ 
pendent witnesses and not connected with any of the politi¬ 
cal party. They have clearly deposed that the progiammc 
of the flights used to be given either by the Ex-Maharaja 
of Gwalior or any member of the Ian Sangh Party and two 
persons always travelled in the helicopter and the respon¬ 
dent advocated the general policies of the Jan Sangh and 
criticised the policies of the Congress and this is what has been 
advocated in Ex. P-2/10 of Ex. P-2. The rest of the wit¬ 
nesses examined by the petitioner us re^aids the speeches made 
by the respondent being partisan witnesses, their evidence 
was scrutinised carefully because the partisan atmosphere 
continues even after the election. It is true that oral evidence 
cannot be brushed aside when such an evidence is highly 
probable and the same is corroborated by unimpeachable 
documentary evidence, but this is not the case here and 
there is no fall tale evidence of the documents brought on 
record. 

68. It has come in evidence of the petitioner that the 
respondent and his mother were very popular in the region 
which formed the ca.stwhile State of Gwalior, so much so 
that any candidate who was set up by them got elected. It 
is also an evidence of the petitioner that the respondent suc¬ 
ceeded in. the election on his own merit and not on account 
of the Jan Sangh Party. The evidence of the petitioner, on 
the other hand, shows that there was not much of the in¬ 
fluence of the Jan Sangh in the Guna constituency. If it is 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1703 


§ 0 , there was all the more reason to use the Influence of the 
respondent to make the Jan Sangh popular in this consti¬ 
tuency. From the analysis of the evidence on record, it is 

? ulte obvious that because of the respondent’s popularity, the 
an Sangh Party wanted to utilise the influence of the res¬ 
pondent as weU as that of his mother to its maximum bene¬ 
fit. With this end in view, the helicopters were hired so 
that the respondent may be made more mobile to propagate 
the policies of the Jan Sangh. The fact that the helicopters 
were kept in the palace compound points to this direction 
and also to their safeparking there, 

69, The respondent himself as R. W. I in paragraph 9 
and 73 of his deposition has deposed that he was propaga¬ 
ting the ideologies and policies of the Jan Sangh. As re¬ 
gards the payment of Rs. 5,000/- to Shri Shejw'alkar vide 
Voucher No. 155 of Ex. P-2, the respondent has said in 
paragrph 12 of his statement ns follows;— 

“I suggested to Mr. Shejwalkar that I wanted to make 
some token payment for the use of the helicopter 
for any marginal benefit which people might think 
that I had derived and he proposed a sum of 
Rs. 5,000/- on an ad hoc basis and I make the 
payment accordingly. I wanted to clear my position 
so that any outsider might not have any doubt 
aboiV its use. In my opinion, I did not derive any 
benefit out of the use of the helicopter. The pay¬ 
ment was made as a notional benefit and it was 
made on ad hoc basis as there could not have 
been any real benefit". 

In paragraph 13, he has again said that the Party was 
getting the benefit by the use of the helicopters and not him¬ 
self as he was rendered more mobile. It is also pertinent to 
note that there is no evidence on record to suggest that 
either the respondent or his election agent made a request 
to the Jan Sangh to do election work for him, It should be 
borne in mind that a political party, setting up a candidate, 
cannot be deemed to be the agent of the returned candidate, 
in all cases. The crucial test is whether there has been an 
employment or authorisation for the agent by the candidate 
to do some election work or the adoption of the work when 
done. It is true that in order to prove that a political party 
or an association was an agent ot the candidate, it is neces¬ 
sary to prove either by the direct evidence or it may be in¬ 
ferred from proved facts and circumstances which must 
necessarily establish that the dominant idea of the political 
party wax to support the candidature of the 
candidate and not to promote the political opinion of the party. 
On the proper analysis of the evidence on record, as well 
as from a perusal of the documents, it is clear that there is 
neither direct evidence to prove the agent nor the evidence 
if read in the light of probabilitie.s and attending circums¬ 
tances to lead to the conclusion that there was an agency 
for the purpose of election work between the Jan Sangh 
and the respondent. On the other hand, as aforesaid, the 
evidence of the petitioner supports the plea raised by the 
respondent in this connection. The petitioner, therefore, has 
not proved the allegation of corrupt practice said to have 
been comitted by the respondent, as stated in paragraph 
10(1) of his petition. 

70. As regards the allegation made in paragr.tph 10[1) 
t2) of the petition, there is no evidence to show that Shri- 
mati Vijja Raje Scindia want to all the places mentioned 
in this paragraph and that too with the consent of the res¬ 
pondent. The respondent, in his statement, has clearly 
slated that his mother did not work for his election with 
his con.sent. So this allegation is not proved. 

71. The next allegation as given in paragraph 10 (II) of 
the petition is regarding the use of motor vehicles. The 
petitioner, in orxler to prove this corrupt practice has exa¬ 
mined Katlash Chandra (P. W. 13), Sardar Avtar Singh 
(P. W. 14), Hamesh kumar Deoaliya (P. W. 22) Harisn- 

chandra (P. W. 26), Haturam (P. W. 27) Santkumar 

(P. W. 28), Kabulchand Khera (P, W. 29), Subrati 
(P W, 30) Satyapal (P. W. 31), and Nandeoaro Bhonsle 

(P, W. 32), Multanmal Surana (P. W. 33) who is said to 

be a star witness, Babiikhan (P. W. 34), Shiv Prasad 
(P, W. 35), Shankerrao Bhonsle (P. W. 36) and the peti¬ 
tioner himself, as (P, W. 37). The respondent has examined 
himself as R. W. 1 in rebuttal. 

72. Shri Nahata, learned counsel for the petitioner, has 
contended that the letters marked Ex. P-224 to Ex. P-256 



1704 


THE gazette of INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II- 


show that Multanmal Surana (P. W. 331 was put in charge 
of the organisation of the election work of the respondent 
and he was connected with its eveiy pl/a/e and, therefore, 
the four jeeps hired by him and the payments made for 
such hire and the fuel expenses must have found place in 
the election return. Thus Multanmal Surana was his agent 
for the purpose of his election and that being so, whatever 
payments were made for hiring of the jeeps as well as foi 
fuel consumed to the firm Rajaram Pannalal at Ashoknagar 
should be taken as money spent by him for hiring of the 
jeeps and for fuel consumption on behalf of the respondent 
and it is included in the return of election expenses of the 
respondent, he is guilty of the corrupt practice under Sec¬ 
tion 123 (6) of the Act. He also invited my attention to 
certain vouchers of Ett. P-2 to show that Om Prakash 
Bhargva was working for the election of the respondent 
and as such he was authorised to spend money on his be¬ 
half. He also stressed that the statement of Multanmal Su¬ 
rana is corobborated by Shir Prasad (P, W. 35) who was 
maintaing the accounts for the respondent regarding Ashok¬ 
nagar constituency and the statement of botli these witnesses 
coupled with the statement of Santkumar (P. W. 28), who 
supplied petrol along with the statements of the owners of 
the jeeps and two drivers, it is satisfactorily established that 
the respondent had spent nearabout Rs. 25,000/- on this 
item which he has not included in his election return. He 
also pointed out that the cash book Ex, P. 268 produced 
by the respondent in connection with the maintaining of 
election accounts is not the real cash book and he has also 
pointed out certain defects in it to show that the election 
account was not properly maintained. Shri Nahata has cited 
in support of his contention rulings reported in M. S. Souri- 
muthu Udayar v. K. Pandaral (20 u, L. 256), Kata,ia 
Takandas v. Pinto Prederick Michael (18 H. I R. 403 and 
Karan Singh v. Jamuna Singh (15 E. L. R. 370). 

73. Shri Chitley learned counsel on the other hand has 
urged that the petitioner, when for the first time amended 
paragraph 10(11) of the petition on 21-12-1971, only included 
Multanmal Surana for the purpose that his jeep was used on 
hire at Ashok-nagar by the respondent and it was as late as 
in August 1972 when he amended subsequently this paragraph 
of the petition vide order of the Court date 2-8-1972, and 
he introduced that Multanmal Surana was the agent of the 
respondent for the purpose of his election. He has also fur¬ 
ther urged that the petitioner has cooked up bis case and 
Jurther more the evidence of Multanmal Surana is not reli- 
ifble. He also invited my attention that there is no material 
on record to show that the expenses alleged to have been 
incurred by the petitioner in this connection were either 
authorised by the respondent or his election agent. He further 
stressed that firstly the letters Ex. P-244 to Ex. P-256 said 
to be sent to Multanmal Stirana are not proved and moreover. 
Multanmal Surana was not summoned to bring those letters 
and he brought them on his own accord. Further more, there 
is no proof ns regards the authority i.c. who directed to send 
his those letters. He also invited my attention to the fact that 
evidence of the petitioner in this regard is not reliable for the 
reason that he has verified the paragraph 10 of his petition 
on Information received from others while in his statement, 
he has said that he has personal knowledge about the use of 
the vehicles at Ashoknagar. He has also contended that look¬ 
ing to the pleading, he is also not certain as to whether such 
an expenditure as alleged for the use of the jeeps was autho¬ 
rised by whom whether by the respondent or his election 
agent. He also urged that the affidavit filed by the petitioner 
is also vague and defective. He has cited in support of his 
contention rulings reported in S, N, Balakrishna v. Femandez 
(A.I.R. 1969 S.C. 1201) and Mumara Nand r. Brijmohan Lai 
Sharma (A.I.R. 1967 S. C. 808). 

74. In order to decide this part of the issue, it is required 
to refer to the relevant provisions of law as well as the evi¬ 
dence produced by the parties. Sub-Section (2) of section 99 
of the Act says that in this connection and for section 100 
of the Act, expression 'Agent' has the same meaning as in 
section 123 of the Act. Third Explanation lo section 123 
of the Act reads as follows; — 

"In this section expression ‘agent’ include an 
election agent, a polling agent and any ptt-son who 
is held to have acted ns an agent in connection with 
the election with the consent of the candidate'. 

75. Statement of Kailash Chandra (p.w. 13) as regards the 
use of vehicles is of no consequence. In paragraph 5 of his 


sl.ilcmcnt, he ha.s said that Shir Pratap Singh Raja Saheb of 
Umrl had two Vehicles (1) A standard car and (2) a jeep 
and both the vehicles were used for the election purposes of 
the respondent. In paragraph 14 he has clearly stated that 
he has no idea as to when and how the vehicles of Shri 
Pratap Singh were used in the election and so much so that 
he does not remember the numbers of the vehicles. Moreover, 
the petitioner has confined its case to the hiring of four jeeps 
at Ashoknagar. 

76. The statement of Sardar Auvtar Singh (P.W, 15) is 
also useless as in paragraph 11 of his statement, he has de¬ 
posed that he had no personal knowledge about the use of the 
three jeeps for the election work of the respondent and what 
he stated was that he know about it as told by Multanmal 
Surana. 

77. Rameshkumar (P.W. 22) is an interested witness so 
much so that he issued one pamphlet in support of the Cong¬ 
ress candidate and as stated by him in paragraph 11 of his 
deposition, he had seen Multanmal Surana, Babulal Jain and 
Rambali Sharma sitting in any of the three jeeps mentioned 
by him, and, therefore, the came to the conclusion that they 
were yvorking for the respondent. He also stated that all the 
three jeeps used to move about whenever the respondent came 
to Ashoknagar and this is how he thought that they were 
used for the resjtondent’s election work. This is not the type 
of evidence required to prove the use of vehicles for election 
purposes. His evidence does not seem to be reliable. 

78. It will be proper to take up and consider the evidence 
of Santkumar (P.W. 28) and his two mtinims, Harishchandra 
(P.W. 26) and Nathuram (P.W. 27) together. Santkumar 
(P.W. 28) himself is the owner of the firm Rajaram Panna¬ 
lal, The evidence of this witness does not seem to be reliable. 
He, for the first time, met the respondent along with Multan- 
miil Surana (P.W. 33) at his place at Gvvahor in January 
1971 at the instance of Multanmal Surana for the reason 
that he wanted to have a talk to him regarding tube-well 
Machine, Multanmal Surana (P.W. 33) in paragraph 14 of 
his statement has deposed in this connection that he had told 
the respondent that Santkumar (P.W. 28) wanted some loan 
from K, B. Bank, Gwalior, for the purpose of purchasing a 
tube-well machine and it was there that the respondent had 
told him to supply petrol to Multanmal Surana and the res¬ 
pondent would make the payment. In paragraph 7 of his 
cross-examination, this witness has stated that he did not tell 
anything about this meeting to anybody till the date he was 
in Court for his evidence. It is rather strange that how he 
appeared as a witness. It is also in evidence that the respon¬ 
dent had told him that he should not keep the account in his 
name but there is no reasonable explanation as to why he 
instructed his munim to mention in the khata of Multanmal 
Surana that the petrol was supplied for the election of the 
respondent against his direction. This is also noteworthy that 
whether the re.snondenl would at all tell SantJjumar when he 
had met him for the first time in his paljice that he should 
supply petrol for his election work, specially when Multan¬ 
mal Surana is said to be a man of his confidence. Santkumar 
himself has admitted that Multanmal Surana holds a good 
position at Ashoknagar and he is a millionaire. Then it is 
difficult to follow as to why Multanmal Surana took Sant¬ 
kumar to Gwalior for one of the reasons that he should sup¬ 
ply petrol for the purpose of election. Normally, these things 
are not made known and it is difficult to believe that he 
would be told to do this by the respondent who had not 
known him at all till then. In paragraph 9 of his statement, 
he has stated that all the demands for payment were made 
to Multanmal Surana and he made the payment. It is difficult 
to understand why the bills were not prepared in name of the 
respondent when the khata was in his name and the so called 
instruction said to be issued bv the respondent were not les- 
pected. In a question put to him in paragraph 9 of his state¬ 
ment, he has answered as follows:— 

"It depends upon the position in life of a person. We 
also maintain such accounts for Congress Party 
people also. But we maintain accounts in the names 
of responsible persons of the party and take the 
power-of-attomey. I have no such power of attorney 
from the respondent, except the oral talk that I 
had,”. 

In paragraph 10, he has stated that when Shrimati Tndir.a Ji 
got majority in the centre, he became of congress view though 





Sec. 3(ii) i THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


at the time of the mid term election, he was interested in the 
respondent. He is a type of the witness who goes with the 
wind and I do not consider him worthy of credence. 

79. Harishchandra (P.W. 26) was the Mimim of the firm 
Rajaram Pannajal at the relevant time and according to him , 

trol wps supplied by the firm and the indent was made by 
ultanmal Surana and Shiv Prasad on the credit memos vide 
Ex. P-22, Ex. P-25, Ex. P-27, Ex. P-122,. Ex, P-127. Ex. P-131 
to Ex. P-228 and vide Ex. P-229 he had supplied petrol to 
Multanmal Surana when he had come himself. In paragraph 
6 of his deposition, he has stated that he had shown all the 
memos produced by him in Court to the petitioner two or 
four days after the poll but he did not supply him the copy 
of the accounts filed in Couil:. fhcic seems no icason why he 
should have shown the accounts to the petitioner of his own 
accord when he did not seek permission of Santkumar for the 
same. If it is correct, there seems no reason why the peti¬ 
tioner should not have pleaded in his petition to agency of 
Multanmal Surana earlier regarding which he had produced 
the evidence very late. It throws a lot of suspicion on the 
veracity of such like evidence and his evidence inspires no 
confidence. 

80. Nnthuram (P.W. 27) was also a Munim with the firm 
Rajaram Pannalal at the relevant time. The firm maintained a 
roked balii, Ex. P-241, and there is a khaiu for the supply 
of petrol to Multanmal Surana, which is marked as Ex. P-242. 
This khata is in his hand-writing. According to him, the firm 
received a total amount of Rs. 6,305.73 P. from Multanmal 
Surana on different dates. In his cross-examination, he admits 
that the portion marked A to A in Ex. P-242 was written in 
his own handwriting and it was written at the same time. 
He has admitted that in the ledger book, he has nowhere 
wntten anything akin the word 'vaste' and in the KluiUn 
some space is left over before writing the word ‘samvat’ at 
the end. He has further deposed as follows;— 

"I wrote the 'sarnama' in P.x. P-242 from ’A. . . A’ at 
the instance of Santkumar. It is correct that the 
word 'va' of the word Scindia is written on the word 
‘sa’ of the word 'samvat'. It is wrong to stay that 
the words 'vaste chunav Maharaja Madhorao 
Scindia’ were added afterwards." 

In paragraph, 6, he has admitted that there is a khata ot 
Vinodkumar Raghuvanshi but i^ is not mentioned therein for 
whom the petrol was suppE'.J. It is clear from the over-writ¬ 
ing in the khata that the word 'vaste' and the words ‘peliol 
was supplied for the election of the respondent’ were added 
afterwards with some motive. Had the respondent told him 
as stated by Santkumar (P.W. 28) that he should not open a 
petrol account in his name and specially when ho was interest¬ 
ed in his election and being a resident of Ashoknagar, which 
once formed the erstwhile State of Gwalior, it does not look 
probable why he would ask his Munim to add those words 
that the petrol was supplied for the election of the respon¬ 
dent. To me, it appears that these words are added after¬ 
wards in order to help the petitioner. It also looks improbable 
that the respondent would ask Santkumar (P.W. 25) lor the 
supply of petrol when it was not declared that he would con¬ 
test the election. 

81. It is also pertinent to note that there was no authority 
with Santkumar to show that he should supply petrol on the 
indents given by Shiv Prasad (F..V. 35). Thi-rc is also no evi¬ 
dence to show that Multanmal Surana had authorised Shiv 
Prasad to issue such indents. Taking all these facts into con¬ 
sideration, I am clear in my mind that it looks a cooked op 
affairs. 

82. I will next take up the evidence of Multanmal Surana 
(P.W. 33), the star witness of the petitioner, and thereafter 
1 will discuss the evidence of the owners of the jeeps who 
are said to have supplied them on hire and the two drivers who 
had driven the two jeeps, out of four of them. 

83. It is not in dispute that Multanmal Surana was in Cong¬ 
ress till 1966. According to him, he left the Congress in 1966 
along with the group of Rajmata as he was not given a cong¬ 
ress ticket though he was a loyal congressman, It is also not 
disputed that he was sitting in the assembly representing the 
l.ok Savak Hal wV/c Ex. R-17. Su'-i.ia has aLso stated that he 
joined the Ian Sangh Party as the respondent wanted him to 
do so as he was a man of his confidence- In paragraph 17, he 
has admitted that he had taken a loan of Rs. 3,000 from 


MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 1705 

Shrimati Vijia Raje Scindia on 16-3-1971 and he paid only 
Rs, 1,500 and after the receipt of notice and still the rest of 
Rs. 1,500 are due inspite of notice. Ex. R-20. In paragraph 
15, he has depo.scd that he knows the prescribed limit of ex¬ 
penditure to be spent in assembly as well as for Lok Sabha 
election and in his assembly election, he had spent more but 
he had shown less in his election return. According to him, 
he did not consider it bad if miB spends moie thuii the pres¬ 
cribed limit in his election. In paragraph 19, be has deposed 
that he wants to maintain the purety of the election though 
he himself had not maintained it as per his own statement in 
paragraph 15. In view of his own admission the evidence of a 
person, who once was a great supporter of the respondent, 
says that he had a blind faith in him, ha.s come to depose 
against him, requires great scrutiny. 

84. In paragraph 2 of his statement, he has stated that the 
respondent had asked him to do the work on his behalf for 
his election and he had agreed to do so. The respondent us 
R.W. 1 himself has denied in paragraph 16 of his statement 
that he did neither ask hurt to work for his election campatgn 
nor did he give his consent for his working in his election, 
though he had no reason to doubt the bona fide of Surana 
as a loyal Ian Sangh worker. He also said that he did not 
permit him for the purchase of any fuel for the motor vehic¬ 
les nor did he give his consent for the hire of any vehicle for 
his election. Surana has not said in his statement as to when 
and where the respondent asked him to do his election work 
and he agreed to do so. In paragraph 6 of hb statement, he 
had deposed that he had hired four jeeps at the rate ot 
Rs. 100 per jeep per day on the instructions from the respon¬ 
dent, and he paid hirecharges for the four jeeps to the tunc 
of Rs. 12,000 to Rs, 13,000. He has also deposed that as 
regards the petrol, it was supplied by Santkumar and the 
indents were issued by him as well as by Shiv Prasad and the 
total amount a.s regards hire of the jeeps and fuel consumed 
came to Rs. 36,0(10. He has also deposed that he used to 
make aran^ements for the meetings and all these were arrang¬ 
ed at the instructions of the respondent. He spent a lot ot 
amount on behalf of the respondent on his instructions and 
the respondent had made payments to him, He has also depos¬ 
ed that he authorised Shiv Prasad to issue indents but it is 
pertinent to note that neither Santkumar (P.W. 28) nor his 
two munims have deposed that Surana had authorised Shiv 
Prasad to issue Indents for the supply of petrol, In paragraph 
3 of his statement, he has deposed that letter Ex, P-244 bears 
the signatures of one Mahendrasingh and he indentifies his 
signatures. Similarly he has stated as regards letters Ex. P-216 
to Ex. P-235 except Ex. P-248. As regards Ex. P-248, he has 
al.so said that it bears the signatures of one Bhonsle whose 
signatures he recognised and he received this letter from Umri 
house, Guna, but he is not in a position to say as to who 
had signed it. He also has deposed that he recognised the 
signature of Om Prakash Bhargava and letters Ex. P-264 and 
Ex. P-265 bear his signatures, 

85. Now, the question arises whether the abovesaid letters 
have been proved to have been sent to Surana and what is 
their legal effect According to section 47 of the Evidence Act, 
acquaintance with ones handwriting may be in three ways: 
(1) seeing a person write; (2) knowledge by correspondence: 
(3) habitual submission of documents purporting to be writ¬ 
ten by a person in the ordinary course of business. It is true 
that Surana has stated that he recognise the handwriting of 
Mahendra Singh and Ex. P-244 bears his signature. Ex. P-244 
Is a letter sent to eight persons and out or which Surana i.s 
one of them. From a peiusal of *l;i.s letter, and others, it is 
clear that the name of ‘Omc Prakash Bhargava, Umri House, 
Ciuna is typed one and one Mahendrasingh had signed for 
him. Similar is the case in respect of Ex. P-245, Ex. P-246, 
Ex, P-247, Ex. P-249, Ex. P-251, Ex. P-252, Ex, P-253 to Ex. 
P-255 and they arc said to be signed by Mahendrasingh as 
deposed to by him. 

86. The respondent, in his statement in paragraph 43 has 
deposed that he knows two Mahendrasinghs who were his 
A.D.C.s. It has also come in evidence of Shri Dig Vijaya 
Singh (P.W. 19), Ex. Rao Raja of Raghogarh, that Omprakash 
Bhargava was one of the public forum which was working 
against the Congress. Shri Nahata, learned counsel for the peti¬ 
tioner, has also invited my attention to some of the vouchers 
in Ex. P-2 saying that Om Prakash Bhargava was working 
for the respondent. The respondent, in his statement, has 
denied having authorised Om Prakash Bhargava to work m 
his election. He has of course said that he did not know if 
his election agent had authorised him to do so. There is no 




[Part II— 


1706 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 


material on record to show that his election agent Shri Ranoli 
Rao Shindc allowed Om Prakash Bhargava to work on be¬ 
half of the respondent. 

87. Now the question arises whether Om Prakash Bhargava 
was allowed either by the respondent or his election agent 
to work for the respondent and then the next question would 
he, if it is so, whether Om Prakash Bhargava authorised 
Mahcndra Singh to issue letters in question to Surana. 

88. It is true that there was an election office of the res¬ 
pondent at Ouna, There is no evidence to show that Om 
Prakash Bhargava was working in his election office. There 
Is also no evidence to show that out of the two Mahendra 
Singhs whether any one of them was working there on behalf 
of the respondent. There Is further no material on record to 
show that cither Om Prakash Bhargava or Mahendra Singh 
was authorised by the respondent or his election agent to do 
his election work, ft is true that there are some vouchers in 
Ex. P-2 bearing the name of Om Prakash Bhargava such as 
voucher No. 55, but it is difficult to say whether it was signed 
by Om Prakash Bhargava because nobody has proved It. 
Similar is the case with voucher Nos. 75, 81 and 89. Voucher 
No. 92 does show that Rs. 106.25P. was received from one 
Omprakaah Bhargava by the Deputy Collector, District Ouna. 
Voucher No. 101 is a bill addressed to Bhargava but it is not 
clear whether he is the same Om Piakash Bhargava or some 
other Bhargava. Even assuming if Ex. P-2 contains one or two 
vouchers addressed to Bhargava, it cannot be said that he 
was working as his agent for the respondent and further more 
there is no material as aforesaid to conclude that he was 
authorised to address the letters to Surana and others and 
more over this chain in the link of the evidence is also mis¬ 
sing that whether Om Prakash Bhargava at all authorised 
Mahendrasingh and that too to which Mahendrasingh to ad¬ 
dress such letters to Surana. It is also pertinent to note that 
Surana was not asked to bring these letters and he had 
brought them of his own accord. It is correct that if there 
is a proof to connect these letters to the election of the res¬ 
pondent Certainly they will be considered for whatever they 
arc worth, but in the instant case, for the aforesaid reasons, 
the petitioner has not been able to prove that Om Prakash 
Bhargava was authorised either by the respondent or his elec¬ 
tion agent to issue such letters and Om Prakash Bhargava, in 
turn, authorised Mahendrasingh to de so. 

89. Much stress has been laid on letter, Ex. P-248, by Shri 
Nahata, learned counsel for the petitioner, to show that the 
jeeps in question were hired by Surana and the payment was 
ultimately made by the respondent. This letter is said to be 
addressed by Y. N. Bhonslc to the election Officer, Uniri 
House, Guna, but Surana in parapaph 4 of his statement has 
said that he does not know who had signed the same. So this 
letter also is not proved. It might be that Surana wa.s working 
for the Jan Sangh as he was then an M.L.A. representing that 
Party, but it is difficult to believe that he was authorised to 
hire the jeeps for the election work of the respondent by him 
or by his election agent. According to him, he had spent for 
the election of the respondent to the extent of Rs, 36,000 but 
it looks strange that he would allow the account books to be 
taken away by Bhonsle or Chauhan to Umri House Guna. 
without caring to get the receipt when he w.is careful 
enough to retain the aforesaid letters with him. I do not find 
his evidence worthy of credence for the aforesaid reasons. 

90. Similar is the case of Shiv Prasad (P.W. 35) who has 
deposed that he was maintaining the accounts on behalf of 
the respondent at the instructions of Surana. He has also 
said that Chaiihan and Bhonsle were sent on behalf of the 
respondent at Ashoknagar but there is no convincing evidence 
for the same. He has stated that Ex. P-267 bears the signa¬ 
tures of one Duji and he identifies the same. As regards the 
payment of money he has said in paragraph 4 of his state¬ 
ment that Surana used to pay him and he does not know who 
paid him. He has also deposed that he never gave any ac¬ 
count papers cither to Chauhan or Bhonslc but sometimes, he 
submitted it to Surana. He has no idea as to when and how 
much amount was paid to Surana either by Chauhan or 
Bhonsle. It is, however, strange that he would give the ac¬ 
count papers either to Chauhan or Bhonsle or both without 
obtaining any receipt for the purpose when he was in charge 
of the accounts as deposed to by him. In paragraph 5, he 
again states that all ihc account books were taken away by 
Chauhan and Bhonsle and the rest of the corresponding 
papers were given to Surana and he kept these papers with 
him as he was all in all and moreover he had engaged him. 


5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 


He has further deposed that Bhonsle told him to give all the 
corresponding papers to Surana and he took way the cash 
books with the concerning vouchers for Surana did not ask 
him for the account papers, but told him to give them to 
Bhonsle as he had come. He has further deposed that he did 
not give Ex, R-19 to Ex, R-22 to Surana and he has no 
knowledge whether the proforma like Ex. R-21 and R-22 
were issued from his office. This gives a .strange picture as 
to how the account books were dealt with and how they were 
given either to Bhonsle or Chauhan without obtaining the 
receipt therefor. In paragraph 6, he has admitied that he 
does not know the full name of Daji and simply says that he 
was also called ‘Dayaji’ and even then he has identified his 
.signatures which seems very doubtful. The respondent himself 
in his statement has said that one Major Indurkar who was 
not in his service at the relevant time, was called Daji but 
he was not authorised to work for him in his election. In 
paragraph 10 of his statements, he has said that although he 
had known Ihe petitioner for the last ten years, bul he had no 
occasion either to meet him during the election of 1971 or 
till he appeared as a witness in this Court. It looks strange as 
to how he has come to give the evidence. In paragraph 11, he 
says that there was a ledger In the name of Surdana for the 
supply of petrol in the firm of Rajaram Pannalal. He does 
not say that there was a mention in the Khata that petrol 
was to be supplied for the election of the respondent and it 
appears that the word ‘vaste’ and for the election of the res¬ 
pondent were added afterwards. In paragraph 13 of his state¬ 
ment, he has said that Surana hired the jeeps and he has no 
idea whether there was any_ writing about it and he does 
not remember the registration numbers of those jeeps. It is 
difflcult to believe that a person who, according to him, was 
keeping the accounts and making the payments is so ignorant 
as to whether there was at all any writing about the hiring 
of the jeeps and made the payment without having any idea 
regarding the registration numbers of the jeeps. He is a resi¬ 
dent of Ashofc-nagar and is in politics for the last ten years 
and his evidence if judged as a whole, leaves an impression 
that he is not a reliable witness, 


91. Now the evidence of Kabulchand Khera (P.W, 29) 
Subhrati (P.W. 30). Satyapal (P.W, 31), Namdeorao 
Bhonsle (P.W, 32), Babukhan (P.W. 34) and Shankar Rao 
Bhoasle (P.W. 36) requires consideration. 

92. Kabulchand Khera (P.W. 29) has deposed that he 

supplied one jeep, registration No. 3630 MPH to Surana on 
hire at Rs. 100 per day and he received Rs. 2,500 from him. 
He is a grain merchant and according to him, he ordinarily 
gives jeep on hire. He has admitted that he has maintained 
no accounts for the receipt of the amount of Rs. 2,500. He 
has also admitted that there was no writing between Surana 
and him regarding the hiring of the jeep. In paragraph 4 of 
his statement, he has stated that he received the money on 
behalf of the respondent simply because he was so told by 
Surana. He has maintained also no record for giving the 
jeep on hire. As aforesaid, it is not in the natural course of 
events that Surana would go on proclaiming to every one 
whose jeep he had hired that the money was being paid on 
behalf of the respondent, even though there was on delay in 
the payment. This kind of oral evidence is of no consequence. 

93. Subhrati (P.W, 30) is a driver of Kubulchand. His evi¬ 
dence is also of no consequence as he has said in para 3 of 
his statement, on a court question, that the jeep was used in 
the month of February but he is unable to name the year. 
He has admitted that he does not know the English calender 
months but he could not give any reason as to how he re¬ 
membered the month of February. 

94. Evidence of Satyapal (P.W. 31) also does not inspire 
confidence. He has a business of giving on hire furniture and 
crockery and he has a shop for that purpose. Although he 
does not give jeep on hire but he had given it to Surana, 
Ordinarily, whenever he gives furniture or crockery on hire, 
he gets the form signed by the hirer and maintains his rokad 
bald also but in this case, he has neither got any form signed 
by Surana nor entered the amount received by him in his ac¬ 
count books. He has also no occasion to meet the respondent 
peusonnlty and he was told by Surana that the payment was 
being made on behalf of the respondpt. He is also of the 
same type of witness who had not informed Ihe^ petitioner 
that his jeep was hired by Surana and he got the hire charges 
but he came in the witness box. It is further strange that he 
even does not remember from whom he had purchased the 



1707 


Sec. 3{ii) ] 1H£ GAZETTE OF INDIA: 


jeep In question. In paragraph 8 of his deposition, he has 
deposed that he got the petrol from the firm Rajaram Panna- 
lafbut he was not required to sign the indent. 

95. Namdcorao Bhonsle (P.W, 32) has deposed that he 
had given his jeep, registration No. DHA 309, on hire at the 
rate of Rs. 100 per day and got Rs. 3,000 in all. He had 
supported the Congress in the mid term election and he too 
has not maintained any account for the receipt of the amount. 
According to him, either his brother or his cousin was driv¬ 
ing the jeep though there was no agreement for the same to 
supply a driver. He had also no idea whether any T.A. and 
D.A. were paid to his brother or cousin for driving the jeep. 
He was also told by Surana Similarly that the payment was 
being made on behalf of the respondent which is difficult to 
believe. 

96. Babu Khan (P.W. 34) is a driver of Multanmal Surana 
of Jeep No. MPG 6304. In paragraph 2 of his statement, he 
has deposed that he was given Rs. 10 per day for driving the 
jeep for the election purposes but no receipt was obtained 
from him and there is no account to substantiate his statement 
In paragraph 3 of his statement, he has stated that the jeep 
was given on hire for the election purposes because he was 
told by Surana and other people also used to say so. It is 
really strange that according to him when he was driving the 
jeep for election purposes, what was the necessity of other 

f ieople of telling him so when he himself was doing that job. 
t is apparent that he is a got up witness. 

97. Shankar Rao Bhonsle (P.W. 36) is the brother of 
Namdeorao Bhonsle (P.W. 33), who is driving the jeep on 
behalf of his brother. In paragrapli 2 of his statement, he 
stated that he did not work for any political party in the 
election but it Is surprising that while driving the jeep he used 
to shout, “Vote for the respondent”. His brother worked for 
the Congress in 1972 election and he too is a witness who 
does not inspire confidence. 

98. The petitioner himself in paragraph 4 of his statement 
has said that he had a personal knowledge that four jeeps 
were used at Ashoknagar for the election of the respondent. 
The Mtitloner is an Advocate and it is difficult to believe 
that navinf; known it, how did he verify this fact in his peti¬ 
tion from information received from others and not from his 
ersonal knowledge. It is also not understandable as to how 
e did not come with this charge against the respondent at 
the time ho filed the election petition and he took so much 
tim_e_ to amend his petition in this regard when the election 
petition was about to be disposed of. In paragraph 17 of his 
statement, he has stated that he had no talk with Surana re¬ 
garding the election in question either during the election 
days or thereafter but it looks odd as to how he came to 
know that Surana had hired the jeeps for the election of the 
respondent and ho had also made the payment. Though he 
has said that he learnt about it fiom drivers and owners of 
the jeeps, in paragraph 18, but that does not look probable 
in the circumstances of the case. 

99, As aforesaid, taking into consideration the fact that 
the plea of corrupt practice is somewhat akin to a criminal 
charge, it was for the petitioner to prove the commission of 
the corrupt practice and discharge that burden satisfactorily 
and in doing so, he cannot depend on pieponderence or more 
probabilities as the Courts do not set at naught the verdict 
of the electorate except on good grounds. The type of evidence 
produced by the petitioner, as discussed above, falls short 
of that standard and he has failed to proved this charge. 
Therefore, the issue No. l(a^ is decided in favour of the res¬ 
pondent and against the petitioner. 

Issue No. 1(b) 

100. This issue has been decided by my order dated 15-10- 
1971 in favour of the petitioner. 

Issue No. 2 (b) 

101. The petitioner has not pressed the corrupt practice 
pleaded against the respondent of undue Influence under sec¬ 
tion 123(2) of the Act as detailed in paragraph 11 (wrongly 
numbered as 10(111) of the petition. Therefore, this issue is 
decided against the petitioner and in favour of the respon¬ 
dent. 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 1.5, 1^95 


Issue No. 2(b) : 

102. This is.sue has already been decided along with issue 
No. 1(b) vli/e my older dated 15-10-1971 in favour of the 
petitioner. 

Issue No. 3 : 

103. This issue No. 3 has also been decided in favour of 
the petitioner vide my Order dated 15-10-1971. 

104. The respondent has filed an interlocutory application 
No, 58 of 1972 on 3-8-1972 alleging that a corrupt practice 
has been pleaded against one Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph 
11 (iv) (wrongly numbered as 10(111) (iv) of the petition, 
who had filed his nomination paper and after its semtiny 
when it was found valid, he had withdrawn the same. It is a 
clear case of non-joinder of a necessary party and, therefore, 
the election petition also be dismissed on this ground. 

105. The reply of the petitioner is that no corrupt practice 
Is pleaded against Shiv Pratap Singh and on the other hand 
this para contains two instances of undue influence pleaded 
therein. 

106. The respondent also filed an application. I.A. No. 
76/72 under section 87 of the Act read with section 137 of 
the Evidence Act and produced idong with it a copy of the 
petition, marked True copy said to be received by the respon¬ 
dent that the petitioner has made some erasures after the 
petition was filed. The petitioner, in reply, has said that the 
erasures were merely scorings which are duly initialled by the 
petitioner and they were done at the time the petition was 
filed. The respondent was examined Shri L.S, Baghel Advo¬ 
cate in support of his application and the petitioner has led 
no evidence. 

107. Shri Baghel has produced Ex. R-33, a copy of the 
petition which he got it typed from the copy he had received 
from the office of the High Court. He is not in a position 
to say definitely whether Ex. R-33 Is a true copy of the copy 
he had received from the High Court Office after he had 
field the memo of appearance. The Statement of Shri Baghel 
does not prove anything about erasures and so paragraph 
ll(iv) equivalent to paragraph 10(111) (iv) (wrongly num¬ 
bered) as it exists in the petition has to be taken up for 
consideration to decide whether a cornipt practice is pleaded 
against a withdrawn candidate. 

108. It is not in dispute that Shri Shiv Pratap Singh had 
filed his nomination paper and it was found valid on scrutiny 
and he had withdrawn his candidature. His identity is also 
not in dispute. 

109. Now, the question arises whether the corrupt practice 
shall join as respondents to his petition— 

"(b) any other candidate against whom allegations of 
any corrupt practice are made in the petition.” 

and section 86 says that the High Court shall dismiss an 
election petition which does not comply with the provisions 
of section 81 or section 82 or section 117 of the Act. The 
law on the subject is well established that in a case of a can¬ 
didate who had withdrawn and if an allegation of corrupt 
practice is alleged against him, he is a necessary party and 
without him the election petition has got to be dismissed. If 
any ruling is required for the purpose, sec Kashirtath v. 
Kudsia Begam (A.I.R- 1971 Supreme Court, 372), Amin Lai 
V Hunna Mai (A.I.R. 1965 S.C. 1243), Mohan Raj v. 

Surendra Kumar (A.I.R. 1969 S.C. 677), N.E. Horo v. 
Jahan Am (A.I.R. 1972 Supreme Court, 1840F Raghunath- 
slngh V. Govardhan and others (1972 M.P.L.J. 519). 

109. Now, the question arises whether the corrupt practice 
has been alleged against Shiv Pratap Singh in paragraph 11 
(iv) equivalent to Para. 10(111) of the petition. The relevant 
part of the pleading is as follows;— 

"Re : Undue Influence Under Section 123(2) of— 

Representation of the People Act;— 

That, the workers of the respondent, with his consent 
have threatened the electors with an Injury to their 
body and they were criminally intimidated in case 
they vote for Deorao Krishnarao Jadhav, the Con¬ 
gress candidate. The few instancies of the same arc 
given hereunder : 




1708 


(iv) That On or before 22-2-71, Shri Mohan Prasad 
Ojha, a congress worker of “village Umri (Tahsil 
Guna) was threatened at pistol-point by the workers 
of the respondent with his consent. Shri Shiv Pratap 
Singh and others of Umri threatened not to vote and 
canvass in favour of the Congress candidate, 
Deora Krishnarao Jtidhav t'nd threatening with dire 
consequences.” 

The contention raised by Shri Nahata, learned counsel for the 
petition, is that pragraph ! 1'iv)-10(111)(iv) contains 
two allegations of undue influences and the second one, accor¬ 
ding to him, consists of threatening Shiv Prntap Singh who 
wanted to canvass for the Congress candidate, but this cons¬ 
truction is not possible. It clearly says that Shri Mohan 
Prasad Ojha, a Congress worker, was threatened at a pistol 
point by the workers of the respondent with his consent and 
thereafter it says that— 

“Shri Shiv Pratap Singh and others of Umri threatened 
not to vote and canvass in favour of the Congress 
candidate, Deorao Krishnarao Jadhav and threaten¬ 
ing with dire consequences.” 

110. It is true that the allegation must constitute a corrupt 
practice and not a mere suggestion in the petition in case of 
a dismissal on the ground of a non-joinder of a necessary 
party. The petitioner has tried to wriggle out from the unfor¬ 
tunate position he was placed in not making Shri Pratap 
Singh a party in the petition against whom a corrupt practice 
was pleaded and he tried to put an interpretation which in 
no circumstances of the case is possible to read and, therefore, 
I am clear in my mind that this defect being fatal, the elec¬ 
tion petition of the petitioner deserves to be dismissed, as in 
the instant cas^ the allegation made against Shiv Pratap Singh 
is of undue influence under section 123(2) of the Act and he 
has not been made a party to the petition. 

Issue No. 4 

111. The petitioner having failed to prove both the issues 
No. 1 and No. 2, he is not entitled to any relief. 

112. In the result, the election petition is dismissed with 
costs. Counsel fee Rs. 600 and this shall be deducted from 
the security amount deposited by the petitioner. The balance 
of the security amount shall be refunded to the petitioner. 

SURAJBHAN, Judge. 

27-10-1972 

COPY OF COURT’S ORDER DATED 15-10-1971, IN EP. 

NO. 5 OF 1971 

Election Petition No. 5 of 1971 

Udhav Singh V. Shri Madhav Rso Sciudia. 

ORDER 

[On preliminary i.ssues 1(b), 2(b) and 3] 

Issue No, 3 

It is not in dispute that the result of the eleclioit was 
declared by the returning ofPter in this case on lllh March, 
1971. The election petition was filed on 26-4-71. The res¬ 
pondent in para 8 of his wiitten statement, has said that 
the petition filed by the petitioner is not within time, 

2. Chapter V of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 
(here-in-aftcr called the Act) deals with the counting of votes. 
S. 66 deals with the declaration of the result and S. 67-A 
says that for the purposes of this Act, the date on which a 
cahdittete is declared by the returning officer under the 
provisions of S. 53 or S. 66 to be elected to the House of 

the Parliament., shall be the date of election of that 

candidate. S. 81 of the Act prescribes the period of 45 days 
for filing the election petition either by the candidate or any 
elector from the date of the .ilecucu of the returned candi¬ 
date. 

3. 25th of April 1971 was a Sunday, and the petition in 
this case was filed by the pelitioner of the 26fn April. 1971. 
Thus, It Is clearly within time, and the learned counsel for 
the respondent has not been able to show as to how this 


[Part TI — 


petition was not within time. The objection raised on this 
ground is apparently groundless, and hence this issue is decided 
in favour of the petitioner. 

4. The petitioner is paia 10(1) and 10(11) of his petition 
has alleged that the respondent and his election agent had 
incurred or had authorised expenditure in connection with 
his election, between the 27th January, 1971 ana 11th Match, 
1971, in contravention of S. 77 of the Act, i.e, he had exceed¬ 
ed the prescribed limit, which was Rs. 35,000 in this case, 
under S. 77(3) of the Act, read with rule 90 of the Conduct 
of Election Rules, 1961 (here-in-after called the rules), and 
thus he is guilty of corrupt practice under S. 123(6) of the 
Act. 

5. In para 10(1) of the election petition, the petitioner has 
dealt with the use of 4 helicopters. It is alleged that they 
wore used for the purposes of election by the respondent 
himself as also by his election agent and that the expenditure 
on that account has not been included in the return of the 
election expenses. He has given In para 10(1) the places 
visited by the respondent alongwith the dates, by [lelicoptert, 
and the election expenses are said to be to the extent of 
Rs. 60,000. In para lOfll), the names of the places visited 
by the respondent’s mother and so called agent, Snlt. Vijaya 
Raje Scindia, alon^Ith the dales are given, and mis was 
in connection with the clcclioii work of the respondent and was 
with his consent. 

6. Shri K. A. Chitale, the learned Counsel for the respondent 
has invited my attention to para 10 and 10(1) of the written 
statement of the respondent and stressed that (he allegation 
in question lacks in material particulars, as neither the numbers 
of helicopters in question have been given nor their owner 
has been named, nor it is shown who had chartered them 
and on what dates, and in the absence of such important 
particulars, the allegation cannot be enquired into. He fur¬ 
ther invited my attention to para 10(1) of the petition legarding 
the helicopters, and argued that the allegations therein are 
only inferential and conjectural and so they canrtot constitute 
a definite allegation of facts, and in support, he relied on 
the rulings in R. M. SeshadrI v. G. Vasnniha Pal and otben 
(AIR 1969 S.C. 692), Samianl N. BalnMshna, etc, V. GeoiRto 
Fernandeg and others etc. (AIR 1969 S.C. 120ii. Ram Dayal 
V. BrijraJ Singh and others (AIR 1970 S.C. 110), Sint. $gria 
Devi w/o Dworkaprasad V. Birendraslngh S/o Beni Sittgh 
and others (AIR 19ftl M.P. 127) and Bfllwant Singh v. 
Lakshml Narnin (1962 Doabla’s Election Cases, 7/). 

7. Shri P, L. Dube, the learned counsel for the petitioner 
on the other had urged lhat the petitioner has very clearly 
said lhat 4 helicopters were used by rc.s^ndent fOr the ptif- 
poses of his election. The places he visited with dateS are 
also given. The corrupt practice pleaded is that of indiirring 
or authorising to incur the expenditure duritig the election in 
contrax'ention of S. 77 of the Act, and it has nothing to do 
with cither the hire or of procuring of the helicopters. He, 
therefore, ur^ed that it was not necessary to mention in the 
election petition ns to who had chartered the helicopters in 
question and other matters agitated by the otlier side, and in 
support he cited the rulings in Kamal Nirain v. D. P, Mlshra 
and another (1970 M.P. L. J. 826) and Shri KlAhail V. Sat 
Naraih and others (1968 Doabia’s Election Cases, 123;. 

8. On giving my careful consideration to the contentions 
raised before me by the learned counsel on both sides. 1 am 
of the view that the paragraphs in question cannot be said 
to be lacking in material particulars, so far as the decision 
of this issue is concerned. 

9. At the vciy outset, 1 must say that S, 123(6) of the 
Act prescribes incurring or authorising to incur expenditure 
in connection with the election in contravention of S. 77 of 
the Act, amounts to a corrupt practice. S. 77 of the Act 
deals with the account of the election expenses, and about the 
maximum limit prescribed therefore. Sub-section (3) of this 
section also says that the total of the said expenditure shall 
not exceed such amount as may be prescribed, which is 
Rs. 35,000 in the instant case, and sub-section (1) says that 
the candidate at the election, cither by himself or by his 
election agent, shall keep separate and correct accounts of 
all expenses incurred in connection with the election, whether 
incurred by self or authorised by him or by his election agCnt, 
between the dates of the publication of the notification calling 
the election and the date of declaration of the result thereof 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 




Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1709 


(both days inclusive). S. fi3 deals with the contents oi me 
election petition. S. 83(l)(b) provides that an election peti¬ 
tion shall ect forth full particulars of any corrupt practice 
that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as 
possible, of the names of the parties alleged to have com¬ 
mitted such corrupt practice and the date and place of the 
commission of such corrupt practice etc, 

10. So, from the language used, it is quite clear that 
this provision of law requires the setting forth of full par¬ 
ticulars of corrupt practices and especially it mentions at least 
three particulars must be given, viz. the names of parties 
alleged to have commilled the corrupt practice, the dates 
when such corrupt practice is said to have been committed and 
also the place of the commission of such corrupt practice. It 
is true that in stating the material fads, if the woids of 
th* section aie merely quoted, the efficacy of the words’ 
material facts’ would be lost, as their Loidships of the 
Supreme C'ourt have observed in Saniant N. Balakrlslma etc. 
V, George Famandez and others (AIR 1969 S.C. 1201). 
It is also equally true that the allegation of corrupt piactico 
should be given with suHicienl fullness and clarification, so 
that the opposite party may fairly meet the same as these arc 
quasi criminal proceedings and the .standard of proof icquircd 
is that which should be beyond a rea.sonabic doubt as is 
required in criminal offences, Otheiwise, withoul the material 
particulars, the enquiry will only be rambling and a roving 
one which S. 83 of the Act protects. 


In this situation, therefore, it is not necessary now to ask 
for further particulars as the tdlegation in regard to those 
vehicles of which particulais are not mentioned have been 
abandoned by the learned counsel for the respondent. It 
appears from a reading of the said paragraph that details 
about only 9 vehicles out of 18 mentioned have been given, 
and it is ordered that the petitioner shall not be allowed to 
lead evidence in respect of the matters connected with the 
vehicles of which details have not been supplied. 

16. In view of the stand taken by the counsel for the 
petitioner, on this point, he may, if he so desires, make the 
corresponding amendment in the amount of expenses shown 
on vehicles amounting to JRs, 25,000, which pertain to 18 
vehicles. This amendment, if he so chooses, shall be carried 
out within 10 days, 

17. This issue is, therefore, answered accordingly. 

18. Issue No. 2(b) 

This issue deals with an allegation of the petitioner made 
in para lO(ITI) remarked as para 11 of the election petition. 
Shri Dube has agreed that so far as this con npt practice of 
undue influence under S. 123(2) of the Act is concerned, 
as detailed in the aforesaid paragraph, he will confine his 
evidence etc. only in regard to the facts relating to the 
persons who have been named, and the particulars of which 
have been supplied, in the paragraphs and leave out others 
about whom details have nol been furnished. 


11. As aforesaid, the corrupt practice alleged by the peti¬ 
tioner against the respondent is that of having incurred or 
having authorised the expenditure in connection with his 
election in contravention of S. 77 of the Act. It is not a 
corrupt practice under S 123(5) of the Act. In cases of 
corrupt practice under S. 123(5) ns reported in Balwuntsiogh 
V. Lokihml Naraln (1962 Doabia’s Election cases, 77). Their 
Lordships held that it was sufficient compliance with the 
corrupt practice consists in the fact of hiring or procuring of 

; vehielM for the conveyance of voters and not in the contract 
W hiring or procuring. Thus if the particulars about the 
use of a vehicle for conveying voters to and from the polling 
booths with the other necessary details are given Their 
Lordships held that it was sufficient compliance with the 
provisions of law, and it was not necessary to give any more 
details, such as contract of hiring or arrangement ior pro¬ 
curing. 

12. In the instant case, the petitioner has mentioned that 
4 helicopters were taken on hire. In paia 10(1) it h further 
mentioned that they were hiied or piocuied by respondent 
himself and the Bhartiya Jan Sangh party or Shri Shejwalkar 
had nothing to do with those helicopters, ft mentions the 
places as respondent had visited, and also gives the dates 
of his visits there, by the .aforesaid helicopters. 
It also mentions the amount of the expenditure incuricd in 
connection with such visits. It is also mentioned that the 
said helicopters were used for the election pnrnoses. The 
respondent has, however, denied this allegation and the expen¬ 
diture said to be incurred in regard to them. The contention 
of the respondent in reality is that it was the Hiiaratiya 
Jan .Sangh, a political party, who had used Ihem for the 
purpose of their own party propaganda, and they were not 
used by the respondent or any other person with his consent. 

13. In my view, the connpt pracitce pleaded, gives all the 
material p.articnlars as are required by S. 83 of the Act. 
and it was not necessary for the petitioner to add who had 
chartered those helicopters or who was their owner, al'.hough 
the petitioner has alleged that they were hired by the respon¬ 
dent himself. I, therefore, hold that the allegation in the 
election petition regarding the helicopters does not lack in 
material particulars 

14. Para 10(11) of the petition deals with the use of 18 
motor vehicles in connection with the election of the res¬ 
pondent and the expenditure said to be incurred or authorised 
by the respondent for his election work is to the tune of 
Rs. 25,000 and it is alleged that this expenditure on motpr- 
vehicles has not been incurred in the return ol the election 
expenses submitted by the respondent, 

15. Shri P. L. Dube, counsel for the petitioner, agreed that 
he would confine his allegation only to those vehicles, of 
which full necessary details have been mentioned in this para. 
11 G of 1/73—3 


19. In view of the aforesaid stand now taken iiy the counsel 
for the petitioner, it is not necessary to ask for further 
material particulars, which were said to be tacking m this 
paragraph. 

20, This issue, is therefore, decided accordingly. 

SURAJBHAN, Judge 

15-10-1971 

TRUE COPY 

Sd/- ILLEGIBLE, Dy. Registrar, 
[No. 82/MP/5/711 
B. N, BHARDWAJ, Secy. 

3iiq'xi 

29 1973 

«PT. 3TT, I235.--W:, STFifTT frrmiFI ^ 

JTT^, 1972 ^ ^ frUPT BTTT ^ ^ 

fvit3 156-d j-irJc tt# 

3iti 7 Tphr, ^mi 

(R'^RI^) 1951 ^ 

fiT#! rpr fWT ani^ sTqT 

TT tfrif qtpt iF amw nf if" , 

sriV, 'TO:, TTO 3 t-jfltpTR 4, ^ yt-'tl'd! ^ '17 

arqvft ^rfTTTOI ’tJY 'IW 31W i31 i ti^tb<u | 

aifl ^ TOniPf TOT f W'ti 

<1171 ?Tr TO'jTTOT ^ fro afTRor TR TOttiffror 

TO: TO, TW srfyfroiT ^ tITTT 10“'Fi ^ if 

frofro TOtfiT 'STO TOTVg 3rR7 fro 

TOffi fTOPT ^ TOt 'irJV fro 

airfTT Jift toW fffr TO'iTTftr ^ fro ^iffro 

i^Rfir ^ I 

[JT. TT./156/72(12)] 






1710 


THE G/\ZETTE OF INDIA : MAY f 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 29th March, 1973 

S.O. 1235.—Where the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Naik Chandusing Amaising, Oanesh Ward, Pnsad, Tq. 
Pusad, District Yeotmal (Maharashtra), a contesting candidate 
for the election held In March, 1972, to the Maharashtra Legis¬ 
lative Assembly from 156-Umarlchcd Assembly Constituency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission Is satisfied that he has no good 
icason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Naik Chandusing Amarsing to be disqualified for being chosen 
as. and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years fiom the date of this 
order. ” 

INo. MT-LA/156/72(12)] 

anVfr 

^ 30 W, 1973 

w. 1236.—qei 1. ffirfTT ^ uRTtiPT jr^rr ^ 

^6 RTEf, 1972 ’eI' 577 RlSIll'-i fTifET RET 4 

sft smmT RuisP tH. t 'rt. ^ fn. 

(EWns?"), ^ srfwVHdR, 1951 

’RTT] ^ Vhrr! fm aPT^ fTThn- ’STsrt m ^ 

3lft, Wi, irw 4, mEf 

97 vft-, 31941 ^ aiTTWrlT 4 fvfq 94?^ !fiTW WTT 

^ 3ff? imnn^ ^ ^ 

sj ei=ii 9171 ^ SlRW^ltiT ^ ^ Is"^ 9T '9191*- 

9^ f , 

3191 319, 9W 3l?y?qqq' ^ TUTT 10-9 ^ 31^71(91 iF 
3991^1 (Jtlfltjqitl gw 41 319719 9T7lM tK 

^ 9719 ^ sft 9T9 ^ 91 FWF 7TW w F^-trET-fn-ti 
31*191 fwFi 9f79T ^ 9 i 4 3if7 5-r4 ^ 39 

3n4V 94 wV 4 4t9 94 94 999T9f9 9 ! Pht] P^tPVt 9fPw 

9W1 f I 

[9. 9TT-P9. 9./l45/72/(13n 

9 . 99. 49, 9tw 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 301h March. 1973 

S.O, 1236.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Atram Maroti Donu, At 4 Post Vyahad Khurd. 
Tah, Chandrapur, District Chandrapur, Maharashtra, a con¬ 
testing candidate for the election held in March, 1972 to the 
Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 145-Saoli Constituency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
rcqiiiied by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 


, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
Atram Maroti Donu to be disqualified for being chostn 
as, and tor being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

fNo, MT-LA/145/72(13)] 
A. N, SEN, Secy, 


9^ fWF, 9 ^rrfVr, 1973 

99. 39 . 1237.—99:, Pwfw 3n9f9 99 991919 991 

^9) 1971 4^ ^ df9vl9TS„ P911T9 991 4 ?<lt( 9141179 P99fwr 

4 P9i3 i72-9i4P99T9 4 9^ 9i4 

41 4. 4s7i4t3Nri9. i80-9i9i7i9945;e^, iitw, 

9191, 9i,79Itbt9R 917i;9l, ^991 991^ (flPRWHIf,,), 9t95 nffl- 
p9t9W 3it9f999, 1961 991 9^4i9 9993 913 P9wf ^ 

3ntP^Rf APq 4 3 Pi 4 P99f99r *994 9il 42?r 9lP<9el 9174 4 
319W r# , 

3riV, 99:, 9W 974Mlf P9r4 94 3r»9l499 97 

Pu'siw 974 4 979111, P-i'tf'ei'i 3uql<i 971 95 4t 9914119 ^ 
991 ^ P9> 919 ^ 31997191 4 Pdij 94^ sstf'-ei 99791 

9T 9# f , 

391: 319’, 9W StfvPfiTjR 94 9171 lCb9t 4 3199791 4^ 
Pdaihd 3iiAih i^iffTin gw 4)' 4. 4 c94P319T9 

94 99T 9? p974[ 41 9T79’ 4 91 1441 TfW 94 mri9-99T 
31*191 hVPT 9frT^ 4 9Wr 914 3114 9? PfT? ?9 

311471 41 ni74g 4 419 94 94 9>7919Ptl 4 P 913 P97tV9 9HW 

9791 ^ I 

[4. 9 91-14. 9./l72/71(48)] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 9th April, 1973 

S.O. 1237.—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri K. Nedunche^ian, 180-NMarasampettal Post, Taim- 
cheri (Via) Kumbakonam Taluk, Tnanjavur District. (Tarail- 
nadul, a contesting canddidate for the general election to the 
Tamil Nadu Legislative Assemebly held in 1971 from 172- 
Valangimam constituency, has failed to lodge 
an account of his election expenses in the manner 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas after considering the representation made by 
the said candidate, the Election Commission is further satis¬ 
fied that he has no good reason or justification for the 
failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
K. Nedunchezian to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

[No. TN-LA/172/71(48)] 

394^ 

97. 31T. 1238 W: Pwfw 3rmf9' 97 971479 99T ^ 

Pt! 7i4, 1972 4^ p94lT9 99T 4 Pwq 9TtnW 

pHqhd ' 9? P 97 248^3|M Pwhd’-^T’ 4 *^919 9?4 9l4 





Sec. 3(ii) 1 TliE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 


V qf. art. pritb 

3rM, jVfTT ^ETET CH?T7l>y), wNl Mi'di'nfww 
1951 rTVT tttj ^nn antlW 

qrr ‘fl' 

arfV, ^ f;?t 3fpf qr7 ift- 

3nrfft arew^TT ^ f?TT? ipf/ ^nw srw fWhwor wff^ 
iViT ari^ afTirfrr spT «ni ^rrrrvFr ^ ^ 

w ?Tr arawfiT <ETf^ wir ’tt J^qErf'- 

^ f ; 

aiir: arr, adV^rw 'id vnr lo-'f! q? ar ^n<» r if 
aimfir aft' qr^^ in^ 

^ Tmr q? PqiRft »ft ffTT ^ VT M)' rr^w qft 

awT fHvR qfWf ^ ^ arrft aftV ?fft P?ni Sttt 

^sfjV sfift wndw ?fftT rf ^ vroHftr q? ffn? tjfW 

qiwr rf* 1 

[Tf. JTIT.-fT. fl'./248/72(16)I 

ORDER 

lS.O. 1238.—'Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Patankar Madhukar Krishna, At and Post Anewadl, 
Taluka Jaoli, District Satara (Maharashtra), a contesting 
candidate for the general election held in March, 1972 to the 
Maharashtra legislative Assembly from 248-Jaoli consiiluency, 
has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses as 
required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, theiefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereliy declares the said Shri 
Patankar Madhukar Krishna to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Pailinment 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the date of this 
order. 

[No. MT-LA 7248/72(16)] 

^ 10 ^rrfV, 1973 

qtr. air. 1239.—W:, atEgirr qrr rmniH' ^ tptrr ^ 

RT^, 1972 tft ^ R?TTps? ITVT ^ RTtHM 

^ ?5rt) 192-fTP17 ft 't^RFT IT^ft Ttft ^“ft^MU 

«ft tprftrr ftftftrrtr fftJMi'-qr, rrftt fn^tuft, qjivrftft etts;!, 
arftnTPnxTT^, (r^th^), Rftn nfdftfwrT afftr?rr?rir, 
1951 fWT RRN Rt] iftWf ffilT RRT apift 

Vnif t iiH aRRt qR qft^ ft^■ ftm «iifaeT qnft tft amqr?r rt 

f-, 

aftr, RR:, wr ft, ^ rwir? frft 5fF> qi 

»ft, arrftt ^R" arRWRT 

Rftft 1!“. aft? f q^NR qtr Rf] >ft fElTWR ^ RRT 
g“ fqt qirr ?R" atywrii q5 fftt) qrV q^ftR 'friw rt 
JRTRfNRR' R# t ; 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1711 


arR: aiR, RW aTftlVdR'R' 6fft tTTTT i O-Rt ft arR;Frinr rf^ 

^TRhd ariRtR- (ft r(;R'aRft fRftR ftftftrw 

qrf RW ft fqRft »ft RRR- ft RT f'Rft EUR- Rft fTRlR-RllT 
aiRRr fRRTtT qflRR- ft RRPT Rft Rift arft ^ ft 5^- 
anfttfr qft Rnftg- ft ftftr qft qft q^miRfH- ft fftR ? R7 ? ^ g r i' 

RttRR RRRT ft" I 

[ft. R?T,-fft. R./l 92 / 72 (17)7 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 10th April, 1973 

•S.O, 1239.—-Whereas (he Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Suryawanshi Hanmant Vaijinath, Zingnnappa, Galli 
Sidharth. Colony Latur, District Osraanabad [Maharashtra], 
a contesting candidate for the general election held in March. 
1972, to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly from 192- 
Latur constituency, has failed to lod^ ah' account of his 
flection expenses as required by the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the s.aid candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good 
reason 01 justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, In pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Flection Commission hereby declares the .said Shri 
Suryawanshi Hanmant 'Vaijinath to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being, a member of cither House of 
Parliament or of the Legisulntive Assembly or T epislative 
Council of a St.nte for a period of three years from the date 
of this Older. 

[No. MT-LA/192/72(17)] 

f!??fft, 12 aiftef, 1973 

"FT. aiT. 1240.—RTT:, fW^R WeT RTT fPRlTK 

?f RRT ft* fq; Rfft, 1972 tft irq RRimr ‘N-rtr- 
R^TT ft fen] ^ T ' ft R R ft 33-RftftrRT fqqfyir- 

?;ftr ft RTiTT vT^ft qrft ftt rtrt ?ftfE 

Rpriqm, rirt ftEW, (t^rttr). Rfqs RfdtRfa^ 

arfRfRRR", 1951 nVT fPfftftr "TRITE TTtE fftRTcrf ^ RTitT 
3fft^eTTr arqft r^qf^lR cret^ RR qft^ ftt ftiOT RTlft jft 

aftV, RR:, aWinqu ft, ^ RERq; ti;rrt frft ^ift 
q7 »ft, ^wEft fRT aitPhMtfT ft fHt] qft^ "FTW arRRT ^WNtw 
R# ft", 3^7, fRqfRR snRk "FT R^ Eft RRIRTR ?i 

RRT ^ qiR' TIT SHTtFRRT ft tpxriW RtTHT 

gq ^ 5“ , 

■STR: -SIR, RRR arftlift'RR qft UTR lO-qt ft aH:[RW jft 

fRRfRR SITrIeT (ER^fTTR RRR sft RIRR Ifftft qft ftRR 
ft fq^ft "ft rtr ft RT P'firft err qft fTmR-TDTT aniRi fW-i 
qfrR^ ft RRTR <tft Rfift aft? iftft ft ^eRE pr RnftR qft rnffer 
ft fttR qft ^ qrmrqfR ft ^ rKVr q^nr ft* 1 

[ft. Epr-fft. Tr./3.3/73C6)] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 12th April, 1973 

S.O. 1240.—Whcieas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri Jadev Harair Arshi, Sutrapada, F/u Veraval, Dist- 
lict lunagadh. Onjarat, a contesting candidate for the general 
election held in March, 1972, to the Gujaiat Legislative 
Assembly fiom 33-Malia constituency, has failed to lodge an 



1712 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5. 1973/VAlSAKMA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


account of his election expenses, as icqiilied by the Rep¬ 
resentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made 
thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not Riven any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
ladav Hamir Arshi to be disqualified for being chosen as, and for 
being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a state for a 
period of three years fiom the date of this order. 

[No. G]-LA/33/72(6)] 

^ fW^, 16 1B73 

wT. 3IT. 1341.—^;, 'i'dsrhd arR^T RRniFf fft Tmr ^ 

W, 1071 if fp fffW ^ ffRFf RRf q? iVqfq-ir 
^ TNti 109-qmwT^ f it:?!- qi^ dJ-rfr^dii 

■sf . ^i^TfuqR- ^qrqirr Rmfi ’cnr, qmqm^, firaf 
fiiWqrg;;, eifq: arfyf-verR-, losi frvr er^tifr 

apif fcrfqR' sDptrt epr qrif 

if efjT Trf'ner if afy'■bn ^ ; 

3liV, qef:, 'H 

if, 3Fr:ft W STHqieMI fePi q5TW 31W FlWRii 

iref ii'', aiff afRrfr qq if RTpyR ^ ipiT 5^ 

fqi vdei 'b qirr fu ■sfFRwrsiT ^ feftj qvf|^ ’Fpftff qiici ?7r kh^iV- 

“Neq- T# f , 

arfT; 3Tq, arffltiFFr q!^ OTTT 10-q: ^ 31i,ti lll' if 

'ffdh'f ^IFTfr TfT^flffT ^3qff %ft ilXRtreiTr 

qf yf qr TT^IT qr! fqREr-RRT 

smr fqfjFT qfiqr ^ ^ rff ?Tr 

3iT^ qi^ qffg- sffr ^<7 qf qmrqfy qi fePi fq r fti^d 
qfdl ^ 1 

[w. ff. qT./fr. 5ir./i09/7if49)] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th April, 1973 

S.O. 1241,—Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied 
that Shri ti. Subramaniam Devadoss Nadar Building, VaL 
paiai, Coimbatore Distt,, Tamil Nadu, a contesting candidate 
t')r election tc the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from 
109-Valparai constituency, held in March, 1971 has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses at all as 
icquired by t>.e Representation of the People Act, 1951, and 
the Rules made thereu-xdcr; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after the due notice, 
has not given any reason or explanation for the failure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no good 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Nov/, therefore, in puisuanec of section lOA of the said 
> et, the Election Commission hereby declares the said Shri 
C. Suliranianiam to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament 
or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a 
State for a period of three years from the dale of this 
01 der. 

[No. TN-LA/109/71(49)] 


snqV 

17 197S 

qrr. •jit. iziz.^qq-;, i'dqM Jnqfl qq RTmTET ?t iptlT ^ 
fq inqf, 1971 ff qfiTWTre; fqypT rht 4 ffiq ?miRur firqf' 

qq fePi 98 Sieqnr? ^ qi^ d nil if - 

qn "ft tiR. ftl. CRT, RR. *ft. qft, w., 2-qrrcq WVs’"r. Rifr^ 

qnR, dieqrtra (qfRvnrre;), ^ qtqtrhr^ Jifufr^, i95i 
TFIT R^tftr RTF’ IRI 'ffRRl ^RrT JpHV'f JfRft frqfRR wrarf 
qr qft^ ift pfsTT qnft if Jimref 

jftft ^Rf:, TRR, Tnftrqu pTf fqTi ifft jrt-yrT^TR qr fRqR 
qqft cmR, frqfRR siPTfr qn q? »ft hitott ift rtt if fq 
qiR ITT Jrwqwfll 4 fepi qrf^^ qqfcR qROf qT -RWlfTnyi 
q# f , 

•srcT; JiR, \s Tti JiftrfRqiT qft rttt lO'qi if fqqf- 

RR Jliqpi tJffRiqRT dRf %ft BT. tJR- PFT qif ql ?R)eft 
ift R^ 5^ RT fqnft Tm qft ‘NqiFT-RRT jpurt fcRiR 4 
Rqi'sr '^ft Rift jftft ijift fetq ^r Jllq\i qft qitfta ft fftr qft 
qi^ 'RRTqfy q! fHrVd' rIWr qrwr ff i 

[ft. R. TT.-fq. R./gs/vifSO)! 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th April, 1973 

S.O. 1242.—Whereas the Election Commission is satis¬ 
fied that Dr. M. B. Raman, M.B.B.S., 2-Farouk Buildings, 
Chaiing Cross, Ootacamiind (Tamil Nadu) a contesting can¬ 
didate for the general election to the Tamil Nadu Legislative 
Assembly held in March, 1971 from 9R-Ootacamund consti¬ 
tuency, has failed to lodge an account of his election expenses 
as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951. 
and the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas, after considering the i epresentation intide by 
the said candidate, the Election Commission is further satis¬ 
fied that he has no good reason for justification lor the 
failure; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of section lOA of the said 
Act, the Election Commission hereby declares the said 
Di. M. B, Raman to be disqualified for being chosen as. 
and for being, a member of cither House of Pailiament or 
of the Legislative Assembly or l.egislativc Council of a 
State for a period of thiee years from the date of this 
order. 

[No, TN-LA/98/71(50)1 
Rl' fqrqft, 10 JTJfw, 1973 

qq. 3TT. 1243.—^^: frqfRR Jnqftr qrr RRrniR ift qqr ft* 

Rift, 1972 if ^ •sinj; irfqr fqwR rrt q? fepi rpitot 
fqqfqR 4 IftR 237- qftr fRq’f'qR'ftT ft RyiTR ?r?ft qift 

Tuftrqrr «ft jRqq tirtiit, q n-^RRd qref jnfqsrf, q|V 
fsieR JTfTvnqrq (Jlffl R^V), ^ RWftfUTT JTfqfrqR, 
1951 RRT RRiq IJR fftwl ^qTTT fffft ft 

Jim ft fqqfqR sqqf qq ft611 qifa et qi fft tf Jfmrrr 

jtIt, qq-;, Rqff qnftRqTT ft, Rft Riqq; fftft Rift Rf 
ift, JfRift 5 St CjRHI R11 ql felQ qrRnf Jfqqr RRsfqrqnf Rift- 
ft^TT Jiff fRqfRR jirIr qq r? ftl RirrmR ^ nqr fqi 
•d Rtft H(R 5 ei Jir4i ein 4 fqij qft^ RqfRT qiTW «utji'- 
iVfR q# ft', 



1713 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1S95 


SRT: arr, qd tiRT 10-q: qi ap^FiTTr jT ^rqf- 

tR’ arnirr cj7'T;^!nTT >)ft arT^fr <wuiq q^ 

>fr q^ qr ttht ^ PErm arw fqtrnr ifTqq 
^ arpl ariV 'dt qrdhq d ?fdr spf 

qd qrRiVfy q? WPgV wfPw qr;^ 11 

OT. art. -q-.-fq-. ^./23l/l21 
HHK-|,q'qu q?. ^riVq- 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 19tl April, 1973 

S.O. 1243.—Whereas the Election Commission is satis¬ 
fied that Shri Arka Rama Rao, Communist Party Office, 
Boath, Adilabad Distt. (A.P.), a contesting candiaatc for 
'-enerai election to the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly 
rield in March, 1972 from 237. Boath constituency has failed 
to lodge an account of his election expenses in the manner 
required by the Representation of the people Act, 19.‘il, and 
the Rules made thereunder; 

And whereas the said candidate, even after due notices, 
has not given any reason or explanation foi- the fadure and 
the Election Commission is satisfied that he has no pood 
reason or justification for such failure; 

Now. therefore, in pursuance of section lO.A of the said 
Act, the Flection Commission hcicby declares the said 
Shri Aika Rama Rao to be disqualified for being chosen as, 
and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or 
of the Legislative Assembly oi Legislative Council of ii State 
for a period of three years from the date of this oidcr. 

[No. AP-LA/237/72] 
V. NAGASUBRAMANIAN, Secy. 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 

S.O. 1244—For the date “10th Feb., 1973” ap¬ 
pearing above the Commission's Ordeis Nos. AP'LA/245/72 
and AP-LA/249/72 published as S.O. 498 and 499 at pages 
712 and 713 of the Gazette of liiclia. Part II, Section 3(ii) 
dated 24-2-1973, substitute the date “10th January, 1973”. 

[No. AP-LA/245/721 
I. K. K. MENON, Under Secy. 


Ww, qnqTft tpnf qqiigq 

(qrttnft qmf ^qVHT) 

6 SnfrT, 1073 

'FT. 1S45.—IJT sqUR RW 

^rfqfqqTT, 1969 (1069 qq 54) q!^ WTl 26 qi^ ^-ITRT (3) 

qrihTff fw?Fid'e qrftTrT arfyf^nur aMjfif tnfNruir qrf 
?uew qiuqfi'JiM 

qr?rqrRT qi ^fpq-^ ^ irqry qrf qq? snMqrcor 

fVETraftcT fq; qRf q? rtr ('Mqmn- priFr-Rq' ireqr 
408/1970 frqiqi 28 - 10 - 70 ) ^ f^qj^qn-or qrt 3rftn'[;fW 
qriFfi' ^ 1 

[BW 22/8/72-rrR.-2] 

MINISTRY OF LAW, JUSTICE & COMPANY AFFAIRS 
(Department of Company Affairs) 

New Delhi, the 6th April, 1973 

S.O. 1245.—In pursuance of sub section (3) of .scetiion 26 
of the Monopolies and Reslnctive Trtide Practices Act, 1969 
(54 of 1969). the Central Government heieby notifies the 
cancellation of registialion of M/s. CONTAINER.S AND 
Cl OSURES LlMITl D under the said Act (Ceililicatc of 


Registration No. 408/1970 dated the 28th October, 1970) 
with the condition that the de-registration will be operative 
till the management of the undertaking remains with the 
Industrial Rccoustriictiou Corporation of India I.td., Calcutta. 

[No. 22/8^72-M(II)] 
iW)", 13 3rt)V, 1973 

qrr. iMT. 124G.— tf+T?yqiii tjr srirh mo artir- 

fqw, 1969 (1969 qrr 54) q:^ torr 26 qfl' BOirnr ( 3 ) q? 3rq;- 
Bw BTqrn tyi^friTr 

^ qrf»iir aiftrfRW erBufir o^ftqrw (q/iftqrTtT 
iBur-9T swo 395/1970 fTBfqi 2e-i0-1970 ^ ?h Rfftqi lui 
qrt aiftui.'iq'rr qnift 1;“ 1 

[B. 22''2l/7.3-t?T.-2] 

% ’mrOET, 3101 

New Delhi, the 13th April, 1973 

S.O. 1246.—In pursuance of sub-section (3) of section 
26 of the Monopolies and Restirctive Trade Practices Act, 
1969 (.54 of 1969), Ihe Central Government hereby notifies 
the cancellation of the registration of M/s NATIONAL 
RUBBER M-\NUFACTUKERS THU, under the said Act. 
(Certificate of Registration No. 395/1970 dated the 
28-10-1970), 

IF. No. 22/21/72-M(nil 
S. BALARAMAN, Under Seev. 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 
(Directorate of Gurdwara Elections) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 28th February, 1973 

S.O. 1247,— In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 6 of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1971 (82 of 
1971), 1, U, S. Kohli, Director Gurdwara Elections hereby 
make the following amendments in the Table annexed to 
this Directorate’s Order of even number dated the 29-12-1972 
and published on pages 163 to 181 of the Gazette of India 
Extra-ordinary (Part-II) dated the 15th laniiary, 1973, 
namely;— 

AMENDMENTS 
1. In the Table to Ihe said Order, 

(i) against Ward No. 11 for the words “Gwalior Pot¬ 

teries and the boundary of the New Delhi Munici¬ 
pality and west of Nauroji Nagar”, the words 
“Gwalior Potteries with the boundary of the New 
Delhi Municipality on the west of Nauroji Nagar”; 
shall be substitulcd; 

(ii) again.st Ward No. 14, for the words “running east¬ 

wards along the said projection", the words "mn- 
ning eastward along the said line of projection", 
shall be substituted; 

fiii) against Ward No. 31, for the words “thence west- 
words along the New Pusa Road upto its junction 
the words “thence eastwards along Gandhi Nagar 
Road—Rajgarh Road”, shall he substituted; 

(iv) against Ward No. 35, for the words “Civil Line”, 

the words “Civil Lines”, shall be substituted; and 

(v) against Ward No. 44, for the words “thence south¬ 

wards along the New Pusa Road upto its junction 
with Pusa Road at Patel Road”, the woids “thence 
southwaids along ihe New Pusa Road upto its junc¬ 
tion with Pusa Road at its ciossiug with Patel 
Road”, shall be substituted. 




1714 the gazette OF INDIA : MAY 

2. Tn Appendix 4 to the said Order, after item No. 47, 
the following itcmi shall be added, namely:— 

48. Madipur 

49. Nangloi Saycd 

50. Nilothi 

51. Tilangpiir 

52. Ranhola 

53. Shafipur. 

[No. F. l(16)/72-DGE Amn.l 
U. S. KOHLI, Director 

f^Tfr 

liV ¥HtT fw’inrt 

■TIJ 9 19 7,3 

(Tto 12 48.-Mw tfm (^4f4:T7r, rmparT mrr 
196 s % fhirR' 3 4^ rTT«t 'rfer fmriT 9 ^ w 
rmFT ( 2 ), Fm 12 V 79 fmtft ( 2 ) % (n) mnOrm 24 

^ :39-frnrtr (I) % 8pj*rr«r ir r^rr^^rrr, snrrr 

f4TT WfiFT (TT:!tf4 mTT f94FT) r^iTtlT 28 tiorfl , 
t9S7 Wo WTo rpTo Fto 612 ft 

xrfhryftT mrfttR wrtf I, 

:3»f=T Wf«rg;W4T itfr ir:— 

(9t) wmrwT %i=jhT ^ III ^ viriT IT if 

srf^f'OTf ^ fTRfwfijw 'tff’f cm srWssrit itm" 
mPtriT 957 miT, — 

w <fiT mr fmrf^tT xTftr- ^prscr trrir ^ fW w(sft ipfFfFr 
Tfff snfmrrff mrr t sff strftT^trff 
fmr 11 ir fTTijT »rT 
wwr^t'r % irrmr? 
m WTtt 11 


rrrflmrff 9 ^ 

1 2 3 4 .8 

“mwm ^Ftr im mfiNnTir tTf*tf?r 1 

9*17 9 ? tm9 wP'r^' mtFT-wPFT w»ft [ 9^9 

wfh '4i 1 O' 
(^r) fm 
wfTrfmT 
9f99, wror 
wwn, 

9m-9f99 (i) ir (iv) 99 : H9FT 9fw9” 

(nr) 9T9F9 %rj[rr iRT, IV Tt '907 HI if W9T9 
trFrF'wt % 979 'ifr'7 rrwr 9f9fim rntr: 

mf99 9f7 999 S99T9 — 

1 2 3 4 .5 

" 9 T 9 RT 9799 im ".87 + r,“I wfhffT I 

rr*fr 99 9rr97?r9TS9ffT wri'mKT«iT w47 

[ 95:090 3 3/l0/7 2-!r'!rTo-l Ro] 

n o rrq-o frcdpijr^, dfjfr 9r99 


5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 

MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
(Department of Revenue & Insurance) 

Now Delhi, the 9th April, 1973 

S. O. 1248.—Tn pursuance of sub-rule (2) of rule 9, 
clause (b) of sub-rule (2) of rule 12 and sub-rule (1) 
of rule 24 read with rule 34 of the Central Civil Services (Classi¬ 
fication, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965, the President here¬ 
by makes the following further amendments in the notification 
of Government of India, in the Ministry of Finance (Depart¬ 
ment of Revenue & Insurance) No. S.R.O, 612, dated the 
28th February, 1957, namely :— 

In the Schedule to the said notification :— 

(a) In Part II, General Central Service, Class III, aftei 
the existing entries, the following haading and entries 
shall be inserted namely :— 

Description of Post Appoint- Authority compe- Appellate 
ing All- tent to impose Authority 

thority penalties and 

penalties which 
it may impose 
(with reference to 
Item nunibcrs 

_[n rule_II) 

Authority Penal¬ 
ties 

1 2 3 4 5 

“GENERAL INSURANCE SERVICES INTEGRATION 
COMMITTEE. 

All posts Member- Member- All Officer on 

Secretary Secretary Special Du¬ 

ty (Insur¬ 
ance) and 
Additional 
Secretary to 
the Govern¬ 
ment of 
India. 

Under (i) to (iv) Member- 
Secretary Secretary,” 


(b) in Part III, General Services Class IV, after the existing 
entries, the following heading and entries shall bo 
inserted namely;— 


1 

1 

1 

1 

, “Lh) 

1 

4 5 

“GENERAL INSURANCE 


SERVICES INTEGRATION 


COMMITTEE. 


All Posts Head of Head of 

All Member- 

the Office the Office 

Secretary” 


A.S. KRISHNAMURTHY, Under Secy. 

[F, No. 33/10/72-Ad, lA] 





1715 


Snc. 3(it) ] IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA; 

^ 27 5FfV, 1973 

W. 1249.—4iVTr fqlWFT 1949 (1949 

<?n' ^ tmr 45 wtnrr (2) fim wn' 

Jretrr ^ ^ 24-'TFFrr ^Tfe=f 

4 fn^w jT 

fr^r f<fVFT) 27 1973 ^ 

i?{or ^»R’ 4 »FFT arr^ 177;. 8/3/7245. ^ 

f^ifeiwr ^rTThR" wfr if, anifti; :— 

taw arr^ ^ af^, ar^ arf? ^ “30 anJV, 1973” ^ 

?«iFr 'n af^, arfj? arf? tfi^r “30 1973” 1 

[7f. t??; 8 / 3 / 72 -P. Tfl.'] 

(Department of Banking) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 27th April, 1973 

8.0. 1249.— In exerewe of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (2) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Governraent hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart¬ 
ment of Banking) No. F. 8/3/72-AC, dated the 27th Janu¬ 
ary, 1973 in respect of the 24-Parganas Northern Central 
Co-operative Bank Limited, namely :— 

In the said Order, for figures, lettei.9 and word “30th April, 
1973”, the figures, letters and word “30th June, 1973" shall 
be substituted. 

[No. F. 8/3/72-AC] 

air^ 

«ffT. 3TT. 1250.—4'T'irJi M'jnrtFf arfyfoq'tj, 1949 (1949 
^ ^TFrr) ^ VTTT 45 ^ ^ 9 tiI<I ( 2 ) ^ I 
^ rr^rk W 875 pn^inj, 24-tnTFiT 

HTim JFtTT^tir, (4 '^Vb' ^TRFT) hi 27 1973 

wr ?ThFT ftpTB' an^ tTi;. 8 / 3 / 7245 , »T 
f ei f tgo tnntipj qiTtfi f, artif^ 

t3?Rr an^ “30 anJVr, 1973 ” ^ 

tF«lFT 97 3nt, Sfzjj a-rf? !fp^ ' 30 1973” fpTT# I 

[7f, tyit B/ 3 / 7245 . tfl-.i 

ORDER 

S.O. 1250.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (2) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart¬ 
ment of Banking) No. F, 8/3/72-AC, dated the 27th Janii- 


MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 


ary, 1973 in respect of the 24-Parganas Southern Central 
Co-operative Bank Limited, namely ;— 

Ill the said Order, for the figures, letters and word “30lh 
April, 1973”, the figures, letters and word "30th June, 1973” 
shall be substituted. 

iNo. F, 8/3/72-AC] 

tPT. OT. 1251.-4' f'f.'Jl W^fWT srfuf^pqrr, 1949 (1949 
qfj ?w) ^ ym 45 ^yirr ( 2 ) ^ TTrfl' Trfqvwt 
qy irTrfrr =i;7r(- 

^OfFn^TTET 4^ q? Tjrapw jT 

(44VTr ^ 27 5rW(, 1973 ^ 

m 39^ R7?B t?F. 3 / 3 / 7245 . lf(. 4^ 

RTitiFT JfiJrfr f, aoifd; 

3rqi, arsjT 3fiV “3 o anffr, 1973 ” ^ 

WFT 97 on:, or^T7 otfl “30 1973” iV# I 

OT. t?F. dhh2-^. 4),] 

ORDER 

S.O. 1251. —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (2) of section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart¬ 
ment of Banking) No. F. 8/3/72-AC, dated the 27th Janu¬ 
ary, 1973 in respect of the Kalna-Katwa Central Co-operative 
Bank T.imited, namely :— 

In the said Order, for figures, letters and word “30th April, 
1973”, the figures, letters and word “30th June, 1973” shall 
be substituted. 

[No. F. 8/3/72-AC] 

aiPlV 

qy, air. 1252 .—4‘44fr7T orf’yfBTrrr, 1949 (1949 

m tbtt) wttt 45 9:4 ( 2 ) ^ fmr TrfwTrf 

qJT 9 r 4 873 TTFTTR, ^ qMi 

717907 ?9Tr (4''?9)'j| fRRJri) *4 27 ri-Tlfl, 1973 9? 

9{or iTthry 7*FFr 09 :, 8 / 3 / 7245 . pfr. 4^ ^fr-- 

fvltOT RTiHfT 97rft if, 3r»lfri; :— 

gRT -siP^V 4^ 3 ( 9 ;, ar^ aifV “3n arrfer, 1973 ” 

TRFT 97 3 ( 9 :, arif? adv 7r*T “30 at;^, 1973” ?er74 SlFTTf I 

[7f. t?^, 8 / 3 / 7245 . 4(.i 
tier. qerfFTT, gR-Tifg^r 

ORDER 

S.O, 1252. —In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (2) ot section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act, 
1949 (10 of 1949), the Central Government hereby makes 
the following amendment in the Order of moratorium of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance (Depart¬ 
ment of Banking) No. F. 8/3/72-AC, dated the 27lh Janu¬ 
ary, 1973, in respect of the Cooch-Behar Central Co-ope¬ 
rative Bank Limited, namely :— 

In the said Order, for figures, letters and word “30th April, 
1973", the figuics, lettcis and word “30th June, 19/3” shall 
be substituted. 

INo. F. 8/3/72-AC] 
L. D. KATARIA, Dy. Secy. 



1716 


THK GAZEITE OF iNDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


21 197J 

Vto WTo 1 2 53 _ ^FtTI ^FjFtTT, 19 3-1 % R 1973 lit 13 mFli? iff! *19I'd ^1^ 9'riH! ^ Eiri StWT 




nj; fq»im 




" ^qqqq 

qq§ 

qqt 

qnfidOi 

qqiif 

qqq 

~ 1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

♦fqqfTqqrq ii ' 7 ^ 

Jt-jt qti5 

^ qti 

qiFr fqi? q? jq ^ 

1 2,83,24,000 

55 1 8,85,63,000 

5531,68,87,000 

mq qq fqqqq qi*r3: 
i^Pqqq:- 

iqi) RfTTqiTTqrr^ 

(qr) qnrq^qi^TTur jwr 
sr1q»ffqqt 

qqqqq fqqqq 

qfTTA iTWR Tl qwi RFrRfiTqt 
Wifqfqqq Tq^r qfrr 
qiPT^q-qq 

182,5:^,11,000 

171,65,33,000 

354 , 18 , 49,000 
3 , 1 5,07,000 
5174,35,31,000 


iffiT %iT?rTl^ __ 

“^TTfiwT~18~W^^ 1973 


5531,68,97,000 Jfl'diffdOt 


553 1,68,87,000 


1 3 1973 *Pt ^ fiTUPT % "Hl^ifWPT TT FfTTr 

trrftiTiTt 


1^0 isnTWTOd, ipnfT 




'JT?!! q* 
trrrftriiT fdftr 
tnijlu srfT 

Primt) Wk 

TTsfW ?lW 
(ftirfr^riTir) fqftr 
qqs^q tflwIPTT i^W 
(^t^qnrfrT f^TTcJ) Wtr 
uriTnqftnTt:- 
(q?) RTqirft 

(i) »9ft? gTqqq : . 

lii) TFflT RW? 

(w) 4^ 

(i) qrf'W 

TFq 

(iii) FIt 

qqqq H^q> rFr 4 ''p 

(iv) 


2 


(q) qr^q- 

79,13,81,000 

^q fiTT 

71,12,54,000 

qoqtqqni 

433,72,09,000 


5,00,00,000 ^ 

1 5 0,0 0,0 0,0 0 0 TT fRWT 

»l<;i fiTTTT 

209,00,00,000 «f0^ ’pTi^' f^r 

(qi) ^ 

45,00,00,000 (®) 

(q) qrqqft imTqT ftw 
175,00,00,000 ®r wr j*rr wm* 

fqiivi** 

qpTwh: uriqq;- 

57,29,84,000 (i) RTqTT^ 

1 3,74,62,000 (ii) Tiqq RT qq q l ytt 

qjiq irfirq:- 

(i) qifqqq 

284,07,79,000 4Vt qittt 

(ii) Ttrq TiFPirt 

14,55,95,000 4'q?t q?t(q} ^ 

(iii) qq 

1,09,38,000 TT5^ Sl^ (lilq- 
31,62,000 qTRftq fqqriTT) fqfEr 

qrq, qrfqq fq^q 

(qr) qfrq qrfinT :- 
(i) Tiqq qrqqft 
(li) qqjq q^qq H fl'qii qit 

(iii) "iv-ilq »rfTR7^ fqfr 

(iv) ffq 'idVqn fqqq qil 

(13) <jqi^aqi4qit 

% Mqqt iF Mq 
TF!^ ffq ’CT (ftqft- 
qrqq) Mir ^ rot qflr wftq 
qqqq q^qqfl tiid qil ^ arf^ 
TT5^ d'ltftfqqi qjq (^^4- 
qrraVq fqqio;) fqfff 

ii qtq, wfini qrtrfq^ 

(qi) Fmq ^iqi qir qjq qffnqfqq 
(>j) f^Ri tq sttt 'qr^i W 
q^ ^l/fqiqqtff Jf Pi^q 
qqq qnftqqt 


qq? 


qqt 


1 2,83,24,000 
3 , 54,000 
3,53.000 
28,01,45,000 
28,01,45,000 

224,02,44,000 

210,32,39,000 

388,19,33,000 


9 8,9 5,9 2,0 0 0 

33,65,00,000 

236,31,68,000 

4,66,97,000 


65,52,44,000 

21,58,06,000 

29,70,00,000 
1 1,24,73,000 


37,21,1 4,000 


95,09,16,»00 


53,66,42,000 


1 541,07,64,000 


1 541,07,64,000 __ _ 

jTEf^ iqrqftrqi ^RT qfrr drqqqqiq RFr^j^qt qifqq ti ,» , il i. c_i a c_i ^ 

(qtljqqqfiq EfTTlF) fqfq S’P: TT^ q'hsTlfqqi ^ (^FJqqq^T fqqiAlWtT *1^ W qS qTfw I 

j. (qi^qrrifrT f^qui) fqfji irqqri qrqsVqrfirqimfqHq^V^, qqqiqTqqqTqiRTqitfqqqqqTiqmqfm^TqjriqTfiTO-l 

tffq,qfqqr flriiFqqq^tii"^ i7(4)(q) %qTRVqqTqR;FqqqTrqqq qqft qi ^tqrrt' fwi tt qiftq fqi^' q^ 9, 17 , 50,000 qqq 

Or) qm fqqrtr) fqfij V\X TT-IW ffq (fFqft-qqq) fqflT q qw qi^ qftq TTfim unfiRT q?t& 1 

mfm: 18 ^ 1973 r-^ 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1717 

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
Now Delhi, the 21st April, 1973 

S, O. 1253—All Account pursuant to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, for the week ended the 13lh day of April 1973 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


Liabilities 

Notes held in the Banking De¬ 
partment . , . . 

Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued . 


Total Liabilities 


Rs. Rs. 


12,83,24.000 

5518,85,63,000 


5531,68,87,000 


5531,68,87,000 


Assets 


Gold Coin and Bullion:— 

(a) Held in India 

(b) Held outside India 

Foreign Securities 

Total 
Rupee Coin 

Government of India Rupee 
Securities 

Internal Bills of Exchange a nd 
other commercial paper 

Total Assets 


Rs. R.S. 

182,53,11 000 
171,65,38,000 

354,18,49,000 

3,15,07,000 

5174,35,31,000 


5531,68,87,000 


Dated the 18th day of April, 1973 S. JAGANNATHAN, Governor 

Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Bank of India, Banking Department as on the 13th April 1973 
Liabilities Rs. Assets Rs, 


Capital Paid Up ..... . 

5,(X),00,000 

Reserve Fund ...... 

150,(X),00,(XK) 

National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Opera¬ 
tions) Fund. 

209,00,00,000 

National Agricultural Crcdit(Slabilisation) Fund . 

45,00,00.000 

National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) 
Fund , . . 

175,00,00,000 

Deposits;— . .. 


(a) Government 


(i) Central Government .... 

(11) State Governments .... 

57,29,84.000 

13,74,62,000 

(b) Banks 


(i) Scheduled Commercial Banks 

284,07,79,000 

(ii) Scheduled State Co-operative Banks , 

(iii) Non-Schoduled State Co-operative Banks 

(iv) Other Banks. 

14,55,95,000 
] 09,38,000 
31,62,000 


(c) Others , , . , 


79,13,81,000 

Bills Payable .... 


71,12.54,000 

Other Liabilities 


4,33,72,09,000 

Rupees 


1541,07,64,000 


♦Includes Cash, Fixed Deposits and Short-term Securities, 


Notes. 

Rupee Coin .. 

Small Coin .. 

Bills Purchased and Discounted;— 

(a) Internal ..... 

(b) External . . . , , 

(c) Government Treasury Bills 
Balances Held Abroad* .... 

Investments**. 

Loans and Advances to;— 

(i) Central Government 

(ii) State Governments® 

Loans and Advances to;— 

(i) Scheduled Commercial Bankst 

§ State Co-operative Bankst 

Others . 

Loans, Advances a nd Investments from National 
Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) 

Fund 

(a) Loans and Advances to:— 

(i) State Governments 
(ii) State Co-operative Banks 
(lii) Central Land Mortgage Banks 
(iv) Agricultural Refinance Corporation . 

(b) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 
Debentures ..... 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund 
Loans and Advances to State Co-operative 
Banks ....... 

Loans Advances and Investments from National 
Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund 
(a) Loans and Advances to the Development 

Bank. 95,09,36,000 

(b) Investment in Bonds/dobentures issued by 
the Development Bank , . . . 

Other Assets . 53,66.42,000 


Rupees 1541,07,64,000 


12,83,24,000 

3,54,000 

3,53,000 

28,01,45,000 

224,02.44,060 

210,32,39,000 

388,19,33,000 


98,95,92,066 

33,65,00,000 

236,31,68,000 

4,66,97,000 


63,52,44,000 

21,58,06,000 

29,70.00,066 

11,24,73,000 


27,21,14.000 


♦♦Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Industrial Credit 
(Long Term Operations) Fund, 


©Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Tenn Operations) Fund, but including temporary 
overdrafts to State Governments. 


(Includes Rs, 9,17,50,(XX) advanced to scheduled commercial banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4) (c) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act, 


^Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long Tenn Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural 
Credit (Stabilisation) Fund, 

Dated the 18th day of April 1973, S. JAGANNATHAN, Governor 

nSTo, F l(l)/73—BOH 
C.W. MIRCHANDANT, Under Secretary 


11 G of 1/73^ 






1718 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part TI— 


(Department of Expenditure) 

New Delhi, the 10th April, 1973 

S.O. 1254.—In exercise of the powers conferred by the pro¬ 
viso to article 309 and clause (5) of article 148 of the 
Constitution and of all other powers enabling him in this 
behalf, the President, after consultation with the Comp¬ 
troller and Auditor General of India in respect of persons 
employed in the Indian Audit and Accounts Department, 
hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Genera) 
Provident Fund (Central Services) Rules, 1960, namely :— 

1. (1) These rules may be called the General Provident 
Fund (Central Services) Fourth Amendment Rules, 1973 ; 

(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publi¬ 
cation in the Official Gazette. 

2. In the General Provident Fund (Central Service.*,) Rules, 
1960, in the Fifth Schedule, in paragraph 2, after the entry 
“Senior Deputy Accountant General (Admn.)/Dcputy Accoun¬ 
tant General (Admn.), Commerce, Works and Miscellaneous, 
New Delhi”, the following entry shall be inserted, namely 

“Additional Accountant General, Gujarat, Rajkot” 

[No. 13(8)-E.V.(B)/721 
S. S. L. MALHOTRA, Under Secy, 


^nfht «T<t«VW WB H i htOT 

22 pRPWT, 1970 

Wo WTo 12ss;—ppnr, 1944 (RWFT 

Vll-^r) % Pm i8s(2) ^ *rtfFT trerr w jpfn 

5 ^ ff ranfafan wm (I) *r 

►3f)tr nfWwMi % Pr?, Tt: farPr mtft ^ 

TfPim xftr ^ m ^ M wm- (2) ?r (7) *) 

ftwnf nt Tff Tt: ftmFrfr smr PtfirtT trtTtT ^1 

__ 

ttftpprftw frrfpm hwt m TO pRft oft tPttit to 

TT RTtr % fW '^Pr tr m ftr 

to ^ sSbr 


1 


6.00 S.OOXPTTr^t 6.00 S.OORTtTflf^t 

^ 6- 00 6. 00'i;5f|5-' 

8.00- —8,00 — 

IIffl?Tfr vMiifji 


Rft fit 

[itf^ fit 

tntfa 

tiarflr 

if PfWT 

if PMtt 

miT TTif 

9<11 <614 

w. ^ 

w:sf? 

it s,+i 

Rt Rttir 

um w 

wTtw 

1 

tm w ^ 


234 


itPt w Jlft w 
ewftr tixifs 
two # fwiT 

<191 Sii4 fwiT <l*<i 
Wo ijt W; 

^ s>a to 
mif W Rftt5t 
I tmw I 

5 6 7 


(1) wtfrent 

(2) PfftMT 

'sni't 

(3) 

(4) s(^<WV 
5 , 4 ^1 *0 


3.75 

4. 30 

5. 00 

5. 75 

0 , 75 

7 , 7S 

2 . 50 

3.00 

3. 2.3 

3.7 5 

4. 50 

5.00 

1 . 50 

1. 75 

2. 00 

2, 25 

2.75 

3,00 

1.00 

1.25 

1. 25 

1. 30 

1. 75 

2.00 




c^f. 4 . 

t3. fr. 

7 / 70 ] 


COLI.ECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE 

Poona, the 22nd September, 1970 
CENTRAL EXCISES 


S, O. 1255. In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Rule 185 (2)of the Central Kxcisc Rules, 1944 (Chapter VII-A), 
I hereby prescribe the overtime fees for the Centra) Excise 
Officers mentioned in column (1) of the Schedule below at the 
rates shown in the columns (2) to (7) for attending to examination 
and sealing of export goods at source. 


SCHEDULE 


Designation 

Officer 


of the 


Foes per hour or 
part these of 
on any 
working day 


Fee per hour 
or part thereof 
on any Sunday 
or other holi¬ 
day 


From 

From 8 P.M. From From 8 P.M 

6 AM 

to 6 AM 6 AM 

to 6 PM 

to 8 

to 8 


PM 

PM 



If the If the 

If the job 


job job 

during this 


during dur- 

period is 


this ing 

far 


period this 



is for period 



less is for 

less 6 hrs 


than 6 hrs. 

than or 


6 hrs or 

hrs. more 


more more 




1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

1. 

Supdts. of C, Ex. 

3.75 

4.50 

5.00 

5.75 

6,75 

7.75 

2. 

Insprs. of C.Ex. 

2.50 

3.00 

3.25 

3.75 

4.50 

5.00 

3. 

Sub-lnsprs, of 

C. Ex. 

1.50 

1.75 

2.00 

2,25 

2,75 

3.00 

4, 

Class IV staff 

1.00 

1.25 

1,25 

1.50 

1.75 

2.00 


[No, CER 7/70] 


12 1970 

m. SR. 1*50,—f=FriT, 1044 

173-T (1) 4 snfN- ^riWrlf rr RxifTT ffint ^ 

ijn^^qiu 4 ^^ nHiddfeNi ^ 12 fwnxT, 

1968 rA 3riW,^-fT kf, 4 . tr. 7/08 RifiiiFf 

TI < 01 57 '— 

3)^‘V3(^T)HI 7^ “RTT il*' tlHSTr 4 ^ MlN'Tiefl 

DIPT TT “fftr niWf ifiTfr ^ 

ntciTNriW 5R fTpii RFT I 

[R. 1!^ 3. R 8/70 (IT. 4. 4f. I?f. (30) 34/fPI5V70)] 


Poona, the 12th October, 1970 

S.O. 1256.^—In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
Rule 173-C(1) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, 1 hereby 
make the following amendment in the Poona Central Excise 
Collectorate Notification No. CER/7/68 dated the 12th 
September, 1968, namely ;— 

In the said Notification, for the words “Price List, which 
shall be filed in (juadruplicate" the words "Price list, which 
shall be filed in triplicate” shall be substituted. 

[No. CER/8/70] 

[F. No. VGN(30) 34/Tcch. A/70)] 



Sec. 3(U) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : 

26 erwpr, 1970 

Wo flTo 12S7.—1944 % 

5 ^ !TW mfiMiit w ipft>r 3^ 

WTT9' 3 *f Ww ^ 'PTTR' 2 ^ 

vpT T^i (^irih Orimf % w^h', ^ Mt»r Hw^prf^pr ^ 

Jr, fl*ri(iai ^ ^rfwff w inft^ w ^rfirwr ^ 

^ I ^ rfi/.«ft % Ttw 4 Jr f-iflti flloiwT ^r 

^ I 


^ 

W R^f 

irfR dirt 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1 

191-dr 

gTtnTTgftf 

IF^dilTRftR 'Pr»{p|T 







dff »r^ 

2 

191-tI 





4to^o^Tqr< 

’( 30 ) 80/^Jat^o/70] 



[?T <3 5fr 0 ^ o 

fdo 9 / 1970 (^ 0 )] 


^0 ito (ttst, 


Poona, the 26th October, 1970 

S.0.1257.—In exercise of the powers conferred on me under 
rule J of the Central Excise Rules, 1944, I empower the officer 
specified In column 3 of the subjoined Table to exercise within 
tlie jurisdiction of the Poona Central Excise Collectorate the 
powers of the Collector under the Central Excise Rules enumera¬ 
ted in Col. 2 there of subject to the limitation set out in col. 
4 of the ' said Table. 


SI. Central Ex- 

No. else Rule 

Rank of Officer 

Limitations, if any 

1 2 

3 

4 

1. 191-A. 

Deputy Collector of 

Power for approval 


Central Excise, 

of manufactur- 


Poona. 

ing formula. 

2. 191-B. 

Do. 

Do. 


D.N. LAL, Collector, 



No. CER/9/1970 


[F. No. VGN(30)80/TA/70] 


'trft'Twr 


5 ilV, 1973 

WT. aiT. 1358.—3rf^ 

1963 (1963 'ffi 22) ^ urn 7 fW Srq^ 
^ tprrhr rwtr RT^im fari(?^- 

ritTr tr^ftrRnw, rte (f^rar ^r?^) ^<41 (hr^iT 

ffii, Rim ^ RsrTfnr ^ 

^rtlTT^;'^^ R. 3fT. 3152, 30 f^fTtn, 1966 

2 W'diVs 3riV ipr i 
^ fwTj ^rfsTwr ^ m ^ ^ arrPtj- 
tm^^dirr dWirr ^ ^ ariV ^W’fr ^ ftp i3W arfsj- 
t)- fri^t'ifoirf ariV RtfritEr fw ^mjnT, ar»Tf?i; :— 

^3W arftnijirdT ^ 1 sptT Rw la arfi 3F^f 

RsrfsjR ^ riWR fdHftHfaR ’1^ fR5RT CWiWlfm 

3inj<fi, apiTf?( ;— 


MAY 5 , 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1S95 1719 

"16 R^kr RTiTR ktftitfui RRfTTOmr, rf« (farar 
^ RVT '3il«i (fjfW r^'srf'i)” I 

Rr. 9(5)/72-fd'. fd-. RRT fdT. R.] 

MINISTRY OF COMMERCE 
New Delhi, the 5th May, 1973 

S.O. 1258.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sec¬ 
tion 7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspectionj Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby recognises 
for a period of one year the Government of Orissa Analyti¬ 
cal Laboratories at laipur Road (District Cuttack) and Joda 
(District Keonjhar), as the agency for the inspection of the 
Minerals and Ores.—Group I, specified in schedule II annexed 
to the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Commerce, No. S.O. 3152, dated the SOth Sep¬ 
tember, 196.5, and directs that the following further amend¬ 
ment shall be made in the said notification, namely- 

In the said notification, in Schedule I, after Serial No. 15 
and_ the entry relating thereto, the following Serial No, shall 
be inserted, namely :— 

“16. The Government of Orissa Analytical Laboratories 
at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack) and Joda (District 
Keonjhar)." 

[No. 5(5)/72-El & EP] 

Sir. 1259.—fdRftr (Tffiffkf fdwr sitV fdiV^) 
3ff vfd^H , 1963 (1963 tPT 22) tpf RITT 7 tfifl^tlT 

fiR RrItT RR# fr^ehTT WrWIT, 

rf* (fRRT aw^) R>n Rki (fsrar fW^sp?) mtri riw i? 

nfuf'Wr RRTRR 3Ttni(,Rdl R. RR. 3(1. 3160 RnW 
30 fRRTRT, 1965 2 kfdf^ wfRR 

3lf7 SrRRP R/r 2 fRlW ^ ^ arfsTtriDT ^ KR rf ^ 
Rtf artrfir fen? trR^^Rprr Ri^m tfift- f aifi r? fRtfir 
tftft k) Rw arf uij^Rd i tT fRRfeifaR arJV RRrtvR kw 
5rn?TT, 3r»ifii[ t— 

RRR 3t f It dl Ri^ 1 Itf RTR R5RT 18 RRrf 

Rwfinf pftrfte- ii rtrir; fdHf«f«R rrt rrrt wi^RifrR 

wfr, Rtrfd; :— 

‘To 'T^kr RiRm fRtkRw nktrorai, ^jrarpt ik (f^w 

Ri5R5) RRT RtfT (fsTRI K'didRil) ”1 

[R. 5(3)/72-fR. k. RRT k. R.] 

S.O. 1259.—In- exercise of the powers conferred by sec¬ 
tion 7 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 
1963 (22 of 1963), the Central Government hereby recognises 
for a period of one year the Government of Orissa Analyti¬ 
cal Laboratories at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack) and Joda 
(District Keonjhar), as the agency for the inspection of the 
Minerals and Ores.—Gioup II, specified in Schedule II annexed 
to the notification of the Government of India iq the late 
Minisliy of Commerce No. S.O. 3150, dated the 30th Sep¬ 
tember, 1965, and directs that the following further amend¬ 
ment shall be made in the said notification, namely :— 

In the said nolification, in Schedule 1, nfter Serial No. 18 
and the entry relating thereto, the following Serial No. shall 
be inserted, namely :— 

“19. The Government of Otissa Analytical Laboratories 
at Jaipur Road (District Cuttack) and Joda (District 
Keonjhar).". 


[No. 5(5)/72-m&EP] 




1720 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5 , 1973 /VAlSAKHA 15 , 1895 [Part II— 

wtn 

^ PthO, 5 Rt, 1673 

^i> wTo 1260.—JTti: f^!r % Priprir %®TrTn:R^tft RaRT^oino 

505 1, TfO'T 26 Fttctc, 1966 # ritTjt ^ Pt^ TOrTfr 5r?Tr^. fH#T (■f’CTftrSt PT'Fwnr ^iV: Offtw) Pum, io64 Ptrr ii% 
3 r-Pt!Tr ( 2 ) arm R«n ?RlftTR Rmi itotit ^ Mvr ift Rfugw ?io »ftowto loss, Riftw 3 gR, 1972 ^ wtflR 'fn'^R 

^ KRtr 2, 3 , ^JT 6 ri^ (II) mtlii 3 1972 # jmftrw ftg rt?; Ji; 

RR; llRWR: RlfTTPr?! Rvff ilrflRTiff 2 1972 WT(^ RRT gWTR Rtf[ RR 

RR: ^*RT ^ I 'JTRRT ^ 3 H><,I ^I 

iOt: RR; 6T¥'T TT spRlT RTRl RRT gFmlt TT %RftlT RTTTT ?! fWTT irT pRTT ^ I 

Rff: w, PnrfR (faiRitO PRRrir iftr Prttsrr) wftrPnnr, i 963 (i 963 tt 22 ) ^ am 6 am am aiPraai ^ aam iiaR gir, 

RTin:, a? Tia it: fV ■amr ^ PnifR surtr % Pfrra ^ Ptr tw ^ ^nfWW 'ami imm ^ fa^»r »inaK 

itsirJia >iFt go^oWTo 5054 , rttIw 29 Pium, loee % fmrftrfFjra- wiflsR Rji^m Trrfr I, walg :- 

^<fR ^rfirgw Sr 'V-g^ |r Rpf-'wf % Rrir fafa^sr” war RfRarr vF aPrPsaT ^r ^ara fmrfgfwa ?fF<S>F 

aar afafear angfr, aalg :- 

sams 

“at-w«T^ m ^ ftag fiMit" 


qWR ^0 WTo 4?) Mtwii Tf WTtfTfkr RTT-gfvpTT 

"■'fiqSttr, ®TffT efk WMk qw **g® ifw 

kr 

nq 

WTHTTT 

1 

2 

3 

4 

.5 

(I) fniw ■ggi 

(II) ITOT W20 ^0 gto g >(Rt 

^'jfF 

W-30 gorfFo g ftw 

oitRl W>T 

gtj wt® 

gwig gTT irrrg-gw mm wnf g tmT 

W-20gotfro4ftT 


ftfUIM. 

wt fdiftniii 

fwg wigg 1 RpnfF g gwit 

sogotftog 4i^ 

W-30goJfFo 


wu, fwFg 

qf irkfF mn qi^, qFF^ mn jzqfF- 

q-sogarflo <frc 

irfk 40to 

wtm 

fiRfF 

WTHT g gw ?>fF 1 rnr fwfr q«r 

®fig OTT 

tfrog^FT 

4T 

jgrug 

g ttfF gw ^ mgifF g 


«r-40 go jfFo 

wqrrFtrR 

gw 

Aqic qr^g g sfFw 'di't'T gsibr, 


4tk 3»Tf 



wftq 4tk g® (g®) qw 


agaa f%i^ ^i^’t 1 as' Ri 0 aa 
wTaar gaa artfr a^ 5>ft air av 
Pralnaart *fh: Mtff ^ar ^r 
W'4fRT aa a i[V aw ar g"*® 
(g®) aw ^?r f|t % I 


fstaw Taarjaa a^war ^ftr fmraa: ara-^'ft ar a>ff ^ atw & 5%-^ gwnvi wgaia ^ 1 
’•‘"‘Pramra ^'^waa qVa Rmiaa ara-’WF at ataf % io%-aFI gwR wgaia ?>fFi 

afrnroni:- (I) "awf ^fV ^rwnt” g Rrt % ®afc ar waafK aar aia f¥a aa awt aFt wwrf 

(IT) Prdsffa % aaWa % ftra "a^” % aFa^a alara ^rSa w wk ‘'aaSr ^ waata 8,ga arnar wman: fiRa'T ^ af^a 1 
aafla ai^ aFt mr g 'fwf % wr^ ar aak wta ^ m aa sara wr ^aitrar 1” 

[ro 6 ( i8)/7i-faofgo aar fgoa] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 5th May, 1973 

S.0.1260—Whereas for the development of the export trade of India, certain proposals for amending the notification of the Go¬ 
vernment of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade No. S.O. 5054 dated the 29th December 1969 regarding clried hharkfhw, were published 
as required by sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964, in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 
3, sub-section (ii), dated the 3rd June 1972, under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade S.O. 
1385 dated the 3rd June 1972. 

And whereas objections and suggestions were invited till the 2nd July, 1972 from all persons likely to be affected thereby; 

And whereas the copies of the said Gazette was made available to the public on the 3rd June 1972. 

And whereas the objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft have been considered by the Central Go¬ 
vernment; 

NoVv, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 
1963) the Central Government being of the opinion that it is necessary and expedient so to do for the development of export trade of India, 
hereby makes the following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade No. S.O, 5054 
dated the 29th December 1969, namely : 



Sec. 3(ii)1 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1S95 1721 

In the Annexure to the said notification, for the heading “A. Specification for Dried Shark Fins” and the entries thereunder, the 
following heading and entries shall be substituted, namely 

ANNEXURE 

"A. Specifications for Dried Shark Fins 


Size grades based on length in Cms 


Types 

r--——-- 

‘Dorsal, Ventral 
and pectoral fins 

_A_ 

Caudal Fins** 

—Colour 

Odour 

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

(i) White 

(ii) Black 

Grade 

A : Below 20 cm 

B ; 20 cm and 
below 30 cm 

C ; 30 cm and 
above 

Grade 

A : Below 30 cm 
B ; 30 cm and 
below 40 cm 

C : 40 cm and 
above 

Characteristic 
White Black or 
spotted colour 

of the species 

Characteristic 
Odour of dried 
meat, but shall be 
free from any off 
odour 


General characteristics 


__6 “ 

Dried shark fins shall he prepared 
from fresh shark. The material 
shall be properly dried and free 
from fungal, insect and mite in¬ 
festation. It shall also be free 
from any visible contamination. 
In the preparation of this material, 
the dorsal, ventral, pectoral and 
caudal (tail) fins of edible sharks 
shall be used. There shall be no 
excess visible flesh on the cut-ends. 
The caudal (tail) fins shall bo without 
back bone unless otherwise aweed 
to between the exporter and the 
foreign buyer. 


Note, 


♦A tolerance of 5 % by weight of the next higher or lower size grade or both shall be permitted. 

‘♦A tolerance of 10% by weight of the next higher or lower grade of both shall be permitted. 

Definitions : (i) “Length of fins” shall mean length of fins measured from tip to upper or anterior comer. 

(ii) For the purpose of inspection, “white” shall include yellowish white, and "black” shall include greyish black including 
the spotted varieties. In the case of pectoral fins, colour of the outer or upper side of the fins shall be taken into consL 
deration.” 

[No, 6(18)/71-EI&EP] 


ftto wtp 1261 —'irnsr % % fattTO ik fittt xirtr rronr sqrrn: ip) irstfl 

»fiTo wfo 2137, STo 5 1970 % RuftffT ^ M qrfTmT srPTTq fjfqfff (qq-ffpITr Pfimur xftr fTqiT, 

1964 11 % trr f!m (2) anr rnn tTinr ireTK sqrrrf tFarpiq ^ ^rrET^^ar rto Wo 25,32, Ffretu 9 

fami T, 1972 % iFtFffT xTOt % TRW, ifFr 2 tsfitf 3, ^3ww (ii), Tfd^ 9 rwRT, 1972 rf wTifrcr Tfa' % I 

*ftT w ^ fnTRRf srrrfw jn% sirfwfl t 9 1972 ?r*P 'Rt ^ar^r ifi 

eflT w: TRW qff sTFTt WTT ¥) 9 fWRT, 1972 *6) TTWrep qtTT ^ ht tff ; 

w: ^fft srr¥T qr xwr ^ tt't tt ^ f=TTn: w ftrqr ^ ; 


*Fr: PnT% (qatTfstr) tfk pTTfqR) RrttfWT, 1963 (l963 Tt 22) qtf aTTf 6 STTf qfiT TTpifTTr TT tTTT TT^ 

TRTTT, fwftr frffw'q qf^ ^ qrrqsi- tt^ % qq^rq; tr qr fT qRT % fqqfq aqurr ^ fqprq % Er? Trar 

qftr qtfrsfk qrw trtr ^ fir^ RiqrT fiRFFT Tfvr^WT Tt® Tto tto 2137, s 1970 if PfrTpqfiiT tTTrw TTcff 

wfq:— 

Jan ff,— 

( 1 ) jqrartr 1 if, ft) jffw % 4Rr%, twt 36 wt WTR^iff srfqi^ ^ qwrq fjRrTRw tt tfwN' 

WT qfqfefi aftf) xpirfq.— 

"37. ^ JT 
(qWfm i^t^) 

38 rnqjfaKT (drfft^jj) qrq^TT 

(qrrfibT ^5^) ” 

(2) jqRviT II if, “tjwf twt) ^ irfPfT ilt *RpiT, q:q tto J6 wr jqq tiRfintr qi^rq fji-afiTftw qtq 

WT srfqfeqf sjf^ qn^fif), rrqfq■ 


wtltrA lit qpTfr 



arq qtflq it wraq t) wtttt 

(wifir) wfq 

w 



*rrjfr 

qffq 

WR fjrqfnpn 

1 2 

3 

4 5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

t (J 

3 7. ^flft fRi w 

qrrfiq q|- 


fqfw Tq fttq) 

fqqfr j’Ftf 

'qR 4. qrarr 

— 

qfqq >f qgqq- 


w 



q gwfqfw 

qr 20 % 


uftq ftw (qrjrq 



PfTBTTiT OTTOT 

fwrq % gw 

<ra 

qqf qf-jT- 


Tffqqr T wrorT 






qq 


qq qftrTjq 1% 




1722 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [PART II— 


1 2 3 


4 


5 (3 7 8 9 10 


38 srftistojfto vtit % fcrrtrp; — 

ftrrw vk ^ trftm srrn: ^ ^ qr 1 5 % 

itT Tra^ qfr OT- 15 ?fo ^fto ^ Frfjr's^ qtj infr ^rfiRT- 

^>FT?T HPT ^1 ^nr 

qft 

^nqnT ^ 

^ fHTT% % 
gf I 


Trr'TT ir 

wt^TTW (trrS^ 
'TT^rftf'RriT 1%) 


[HTo 6( 19)/71 PTo pTf ?r>TT PTo HTo] 
1^0 fTo HTMr'Tt, ^rqr Trft'T 


ORDER 

S.O. 1261.—Whereas, for the development of the export trade of India, certain proposals for amending the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S.0.2137, dated the 5th June, 1970, regarding dried fish were published as re¬ 
quired by sub-rule (2) of rule 11 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Rules, 1964, in the Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3, Sub¬ 
section (ii), dated the 9th September, 1972 under the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S.O. 
2532, dated the9th September 1972; 

And whereas objections and suggestions were invited till the 9th October, 1972 from the persons likely to be effected thereby; 

And whereas the copies of the said Gazette were made available to the public on the 9th September, 1972; 

And whereas objections and suggestions received from the public on the said draft have been considered by the Central Govern¬ 
ment; 


Now, therefore, in exorcise of the powers conferred by section 6 of the Export (Quality Control and Inspection) Act, 1963 (22 of 
1963), the Central Government, after consulting the Export Inspection Council, being of the opinion that It is necessary and expendient so 
to do for the development of the export trade of India, hereby makes the following amendments to the notification of the Government so 
India in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, No. S.O. 2137, dated the 5th June, 1970, namely:— 

In the said notification,— 

(1) in Annexure I, under the heading “Varieties of dried fish”, after Serial No, 36 and the entries relating thereto, the following 
Serial Nos. and entries shall be added, namely 

“37. Dired Bombay Duck 
(Harpodon nehereus) 

38. Laminated Bombay Duck 
(Harpodon nehereus).”; 

(2) in Annexure II, under the heading “Specifications for dried fish”, after Serial No. 36 and the entries relating thereto, the following 
Serial Nos, and entries shall be added, namdy:— 


Standards of quality 
__ 


Serial Variety 

No. 

Scientific 

name 

(Species) 

Method of cure 
in brief 

Size 

Appearance 

Smell 

Dry age 

Foreign 

matter 

Other Remarks 

“N 

1 2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

"37. Dried Bombay 
Duck 

Harpodon 

nehereus 

Sundried or 
dried in artifi¬ 
cial drier under 
hygienic condi¬ 
tions 

— Characteristic 

colour 
free 

from any 
pink dis¬ 
colouration 

Character¬ 
istic flavour 
free from 
any rancid 
odour 

Moisture 
20 % by 
weight, 
maximum 


Acid insolu¬ 
ble ash (on 
moisture free 
basis, maxi¬ 

mum 1 %). 

38. Laminated 
Bombay Duck 

-do- 

Prepared by 
suitable pressing 
of dried fish, 
after removing 
head, fins and 
entails, sides 
trimmed to get 
pieces of uni- 
form size. 

Large 15 
cm, and 
above, 
Small-Less 
than 15 
cm. 

•do- 

-do- 

Moisture 
15% by 
weight, 
maximum. 


Acid insoluble 
ash (on mois¬ 
ture free basis 

1 % maximum)” 


[No, 6(19)/71-EI & EP] 
M. K. B. BHAINAGAR, Under Secy. 



1723 


Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


. 1973 

'fH', an-. 1202 .—4^ «p. 4 ?p^ mV4- 

rte, arPHR ^ ^PT^n- 4HVir q? anJk i46 4t. qiT44 

?ffe:;?r 4 an^ q^ ??r 4 is »T#rt 4f 4 mr 

arnfir arrfV—>ir4 72 q? 1,76,787 ^ 

tfp armiTT ^iv^<-l'w 4. 'ft.M/sseoQssM/arf amAiM- 

33-34 ‘Nhto 6-12-71 JTTm 1V?Tr w VT I 4 ?rr4ff 

MrrPT 'frnw irfV srh “iVsTift irf4 

^ 3n^P5Tf<mt antn? t? an^rr fqrnr 4" ^4: tt^r 

aiEmr aR^tiRw nf w 4“ i qi^ 4 rfw4«- 

iVqr if* fq; anw ?ng4t4 fqr4t 41 tfrfTRifq; irriWiT^ 
4 441^ qnrqr n^n «n ajft :m?4n- 

w »iT I ctV >4 4- snivn 4 Tq; 

qnrv nr ^iT'afr IVnr ^ i 

4 ^ 4 ^ ?r ^ ^ w 44 i 4 . qrM/ftsooeaa 

fVifq; 6-12-71 awRw j 4 ^rtn jf* 344 l447r ^4 t ^ fqi 

('fqi?qi qq anw anr trr. qrwm 4 

Hrafjq^tr tqrqr w ^) 4 ;^ ?n?44r ^ «frr4 ^ 

an4T^ q4 iijof 1 ,76,787 IS. 4 144 tj-q; l'?W 3 tt4^ 

I 

[4.'4./g«?«i;. i/% WT-I2h 4;./w.9ti.g‘/^.#iM.41.if?i.] 

ql. TT. "Ti '^<, 144qq> 

MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE 

(Office of the Dy, Chief Controller of Imports & Exports) 
(Iron and Steel) 

CANCELLATION ORDER 
Faridabad, the ,1973. 

S.O. 1262.—M/s, Watkins Mayor & Co,, Nehru Gai-dens 
Road, Jullundur City were granted an Import Licence No. 
PiD|8560988|T|OR|41|Di33-34 dated 6-12-71 for import of 
145 M/T of the item High Carbon Steel Sheets for Rs. 176,787 
imder Rupee ceiling for the licensing period April—March, 72 
with the validity of 18 months. The parly have applied for 
duplicate copy of the licence (both ECP & CCP Copies) on 
the ground that the original Import licence has been mis¬ 
placed. The party have further stated that the original 
Import licence was not registered with any customs authority 
ana was not utilised at all. In support of this contention, the 
applicant has filed an affidavit. 

I am satisfied that the original Import licence No. P/D/ 
8560988 dated 6-12-71 has been misplaced, and direct that 
(as the import of the item has now been canalised through 
HSL) a Release Order be issued to the applicant for the full 
value of Rs. 1,76,787 in cancellation of the original Import 
licence. 

[No. PlW-llAM-72|EXlAU|LME-LC-I|DCCF] 
K. N. KAPOOR, Dy Chief Controller, 


fqw*r 

10 3r4er, 1973 

TTo »tTo 1263—4rtt >44n: (wTutt «444rPF4 4) 5q^) 
WfufsTOtT, 1971 (l971 =0 40) 4t WRT 3 TTCI tpm V i IwrI 
TT JPfPT 54 , ^ittfltl HTfiT't, trq^SKT, tft4 4 dK^fi 
^ (I) 4 Rftmfr 4t, 5fr rttk ^ vrir-tlwR iiftj- 


ti 4 qf) Tfipr % dHq/-4 p(, trltrlTiriT % ipfrqTi 

% ft# Rirn Rfqqdf) W1 tl, 44 tpt RfuTRt qqq 
jTTTnfr S|7 itTTST (2) 4 4t4t 'rf-rtrrf % RrarR 4 *PFft 

ttf m.i f ri rr iff WFfbr 44n % vfinx bth- m 

wtf)q Jimr i4wf4fr 4t itrlTqttt fr T^ttr 44 tt 4)^1: ^rftr- 
Ttfld 44 qTtT4 q^TT I 

tmtify 

nrfinTrit'14'KiffitiFr Trir 44 't 4 ^ 844 4)t: rIh- 

qrrfTn «n4)tr 44 tt4 

Tpiir 4 Drar qR! 

4 Tr'T'o: 4)i; 

4 dTTtJt: 'TTdT'^I Wffd 

4^14 4 qr 34% ipfh ^nflq 
44 r (R4f5PT 4)7 Irtr 

[IRO Ri' 13/2/73-(tIT‘>)] 

uTtflqt Iti^, Rqr trlTq 

DEPARTMENT OF ATOMIC ENERGY 
Bombay, the 10th April, 1975 
.S.O. 1263—In exercise of the powers conferred by 

Section 3 of the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised 
Occupants) Act, 1971 (40 of 1971), the Centra) Government 
hereby appoints the officer mentioned in colimin (1) of the 
Table below being an officer equivalent to the rank of a gazetted 
officer of government to be the estate officer for the purposes 
of the said Act, and the said officer shall exercise the powers 
conferred and perform the duties imposed on estate officers by 
or under the said Act, within the local limits of his jurisdic¬ 
tion in resect of the public premises specified in column (2) 
of the said Table. 

TABLE 

Designation of the Officer Categories of public premises 

and local limits of jurisdic¬ 
tion. 


Chief Administrative and Premises (office and residential 
Accounts Officer, Tarapur belonging to or under 

Atomic Power Station the management of the 

P.O, Tarapur, Dist. Thana Tarapur Atomic Power 

(Maharashtra) Station in Palghar and 

Dahan Taluks, Dist., 

Thana, Maharashtra State 


[(File No,13/2/73-(H)] 
TARLOK SINGH, Under Secy 

<f?ttwqr»r qih mWir 4qw<i 
tqurn-) 

23 anfVr, 1973 

qrr, 3(1, 1204,—RR-i WfnVHT qi^TWI 4 3ITtT^ 

3riWR qii 3144) 3ffiTfsn!ur, 1902 (1002 qrr 50 ) tim 
3 q4 hit I ( 1 ) 4 3r4N- »TT7tT FTqiR 4 ^f'r 

OTFur q'hH'T q4 3iftr¥[;gRT rr, 311 . 4 3903 14^ 31 - 10-72 
^ 4^ Biqrn 4 ^ 3ffti7t;fniT 4 4err4 3pp!^ 4^ 
?q?Hr?g »i;iW ^qqiirr q? 3rttrqrR q4 ngqHigHT q4 
t q ^T4 ^ 3444 q!i4 qr smr aiRnr qftqn- 

qr ^?iT «iT i 

34? Tfr: qittrqr^ 4 gq^r 31^11 I'd qii q4 mrr 0 

q4 ETtnu Cl) 4 3i44f rtief q4 f4rl4 4 if = 


tjaq wRifqqt 4 )t 4<qT qfmFrf), 

qirpjT: If ini'uj srfqq 
■STTT-ttT 6171^7 PHTfl qRT, 



1724 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 

srt^ m: Hrm? A iVrt'e Tf ^ 4 

'miq; ?F ¥^RTr 4^ ?<^VH V yd ' 

4^ ^ 3fnrw 3ff4?r ir4 ^ f , 

^nr, 3Rr: sifiT^rw yirr 6 ^ ^tnrr (i) ttttt 

W?r sfriW ^ rparfTT tRrf ^ t?Tf^wr '4W?r 

^ ^ v'^V^P^r^TT 4 3nH<^ i4 

W4fV®s ^ 4 ;^Vrt ^ 'd'jiV'i' ^ ariHm? mjMd i fif 

^ jh'<1'3(i ^ ^Wr( ?*t)*11 -jTwr ^ sTfr^ ^ 3 ^ 

«nr ^a^Emr (4) ^ ^liW^rl' 'frr im^r tFR^ ^ 
.^jfr 4c'^ ^ >^;fWf j 4 gtrq N r *pt 

344 ^ tiV! 4 ir 4f 4w w TfTT- 

f^n; arFrfrr, 4 ?r»ft 4tmrf 4 j 4, snr sriroii 

q? TTOw ^ ^ ^rnV ^ 14?^ d ?rW 1 

w*r^ 

?fwT ] 45 44ro jfto ii*To VI I ( 5 ?Tt»iWT-i 44 iTFi ^) 
w 'm'T ’^ii^ 

Tr3*r—Ti^rw ftr^rr q* ?rp=m—irttfl'^r^, 

O ' >0 


ni't 

wi ^ 0 


TTo ^TR "0 

to 


ftr^iTC 

2 JR 

0 

7 

76 


2 ;t 7 

0 

to 

80 


2.36 

0 

1 2 

17 


234 

0 

15 

50 

kfWflt 5fo 

235 

0 

3 

66 


S,5 7/'fV-h 8 5 8/1 

0 

15 

01 



0 

1 

77 


938/3 

0 

1 

00 


93,5/3 

0 

8 

30 


TtT 

0 

2 

93 


934/3 

0 

7 

32 


934/4 

0 

00 

50 


934/ 1 

0 

.5 

77 


[4 11/2/72-4tK 44w] 


MINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 

(Department of Petroleum) 

New Delhi, the 23rd April, 1973 

S.O. 1264. —^Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3963 dated 31-10-1972 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962\ the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines: 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 


. 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


And fui'thcr in exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
seclion (4) of that Section, the Central Goveinment directs 
that the light of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission fice from all encumbrances. 

SCHCDULL 

Pipeline from Well No, 145 to O.G.S. Vll ( Well No. 

K.-144) 


State : Gajarat Dist. 

& Taluka : 

Ganillil Nflgar 

Village 

Block No. 

Hectare 

Arc 

P.Arc 

TarapUr 

. 238 

0 

7 

76 


237 

0 

10 

80 


236 

0 

12 

17 


234 

0 

15 

50 


235 

Survey No. 

0 

3 

66 

UVARSAD 

. 857/P+858/1 

0 

15 

01 


V.P, Cart track 

0 

1 

77 


938/3 

0 

1 

00 


935/3 

0 

8 

30 


D.L.B.Road 

0 

2 

93 


934/3 

0 

7 

32 


934/4 

0 

00 

50 


934/1 

0 

5 

77 


[No. 11/2/72-L&L] 

air. 12 CC—qfT! 

srhmf ^ arsf^r) aitvi'd^iR-, i962 (i962 ’vr 60) 'i4 vm 
3 'li^ 3Twn (1) MTO" iTTisE ^ orfr 

^ !irr. -w, 3952 31 - 10-72 

5TTT TTT^nr ^ ^ 3ifvt4^Hi 4 4^ 

>^hT’£r^ 4 ^Erh" ^ 3rf«r^ q4 9i? q ' ^?iT ^ 
Jr#3Fr <4 ?fr4 stett strstrq' ti^^ iTr 

^ i%T »1T I 

3if? ?Er: mtwWt 4 13 ^ um e 

^ wum (1.' 3TlfTT 4 I 

aiiV nmt 4 ;3W 17 trw SBEt 

'Hf^ W 3rfR7^;w 4 3i-(,t[^4) 4^ <yd 

4^ dMtiNr ^ 3ifwR ^ifsfrr 9w4 ^ ^ ; 

3IT, 3rer: ttit ym e ^ ^nui ci) 

RTW ^ifw Tryfn i^n4 ^ ttebr tyi^ y rr t r ytW 
f*T ITT arfVl[;yyT 4 TTTrry 31^1^41 j4 

13^ rf sJ'I'mIji ^ 3tttr<in7 fsfwt 

fsFTiT 3ITOT aifi ^ tmr 

^ TRUTir (4) 1^ lETW Jfltwy? '^iT We ^ ((Tl 

TiTim j 4 eRyk wr 

3fftraT7 '4^41 7TEBT7 tf frfinr «i? k Ri^- 

4k afTRk k, 7r>4 4yRrf ^ k, yktttr 

WEK ^ ^ fmkr r 4 k d jfkr 1 


wj^ 

fwt kuT 14 4 4 ) 4 t tEf VII trr 'TT^'mri^ 


TrR-'fsrrra' 


RtR krwy iTo 

tio ^fKo 'OofiiJ 
fo XtTTofo 

yrrtte . 926 

933 

927 

0 4 91 

0 12 59 

0 26 30 



Sec. 3(ii) J 


1725 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA-: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


2 

3 

4 

5 

92 a 

0 

13 

37 

917/5/6 

0 

10 

95 


0 

1 

44 

963/1/1 

0 

11 

35 

963 

0 

2 

76 

9 6 6/2 

0 

3 

81 

f*ft 

0 

00 

77 

964/2 

0 

00 

50 

965 

0 

26 

23 

9 8 Old 

0 

1 

67 

981/2^1 

0 

13 

46 

981/1 

0 

2 

40 

994 

0 

5 

69 

985 / 3 / 2/2 

0 

7 

27 

933 / 3 / 2/1 

0 

5 

13 

993 / 4/2 

0 

13 

48 

990 

0 

13 

41 

991 

0 

13 

86 

fft 

0 

1 

21 

1087 

0 

6 

29 

1086 

0 

00 

50 

I 085/1 

0 

6 

08 

1084/1 

0 

3 

20 

1084/2 

0 

9 

41 

IO 8 I /3 

0 

a 

08 

1082 

0 

18 

68 

1076 

0 

1 

90 

A) 'ff 3'tT 

0 

1 

00 

1100 

0 

1 

08 

1105 

0 

5 

70 

1104 

0 

2 

40 

1107 

0 

3 

72 


[?f. 11 / 2 / 72 -^ 

S O. 1265.—Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3962 dated 31-10-1972 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
I Acqiilsition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962\ the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the Itmds specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government: 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
ublication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
ommission free from all encumbrances. 

11 G of 1/73—6. 


SCHEDULE 

Pipeline From Well No. K-144 To G.G.S.Vll 


State : Gujarat Dlstt. & Tal. : Gandhinagar 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P.Are 

UVARSAD 

. 926 

0 

4 

91 


933 

0 

12 

59 


927 

0 

26 

36 


928 

0 

13 

37 


917/5/6 

0 

10 

95 


Cart track 

0 

1 

44 


963/1/1 

0 

11 

35 


963 

0 

2 

76 


966/2 

0 

3 

81 


Cart Track 

0 

00 

77 


964/2 

0 

00 

50 


965 

0 

26 

23 


980/1 

0 

1 

67 


981/2/B 

0 

13 

46 


981/1 

0 

2 

40 


994 

0 

5 

69 


985/3/2/2 

0 

7 

27 


985/3/2/1 

0 

5 

13 


993/4/2 

0 

13 

48 


990 

0 

13 

41 


991 

0 

13 

86 


V.P.Cart track 

0 

1 

21 


1087 

0 

6 

29 


1086 

0 

00 

50 


1085/1 

0 

6 

08 


1084/1 

0 

3 

20 


1084/2 

0 

9 

41 


1081/3 

0 

8 

08 


1082 

0 

18 

68 


1076 

0 

1 

90 


l.P. Road 

0 

1 

00 


1100 

0 

1 

08 


1105 

0 

5 

70 


1104 

0 

2 

40 


1107 

0 

3 

72 


[No. ll/277i-L&L] 


3 tT. 126 G.—gtptrftr 

arttrqnT hr 1902 (1902 ^ 50) ^ ijttt 

3 utrwTTT ( 1 ) 4 artfN" ^ 

traiw ^ an. ^f. .3964 31-10-72 

fflTT ^ 31 

^ tsqiqfvT 3 ltfTdm ^ ^ 

f*1C5T4 ffut 3Tf3% ^ HfiT 3frRT OIRPT 

^ »(T , 

3riV 11^174 ^ d^rt gjTT 0 

^ wfTTTT (1) 9? inw 45+ fTirfs^ ^ if f •• 

sriV Rwn i ^ fWr iTqit 4 

if ^ srftpqrR 3rf5f?r f-wi i 

3 r¥, srfT: ^ ym 0 ^aRyiTT (1) 

Riffy ifriW SFTT imfr ^ 573 yiTV r 

^ 3ityd,ddT y?riy 3rd7(;Tf if 

irw if laWy ^ 3r ?4 

nylviq- tffrrpnTr sTfsfrr tirtt i sifV, ottt 

tHTOTTT (4) HTW' imfr ^ 1571 

^ 13W VffiHTf 4i ^rpiiir ^ 

3 ffyw qWl'fi if “iVhpr 4 hrpi rff fnn jfp^ 

^ 3TTyf'' 4, TTifr ^ i^ ^ if, yfpiTT 

nqi i n i d - qfl ?TP fm^BT dif fd?t;d wfriT I 



1726 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 

^to %o-l48 % aft ^ vn %,1 44 ^ 


ttaw:- 

—JlTOq 

ftfHt —+tH>nR 

htq 


1(0 itmi 

0 ^0 rffo 1(0 

«ITTo 


195 

0 

2 20 


194 

0 

0 50 


193 

0 

5 07 


106 

0 

5 53 


197 

0 

10 91 


198 

0 

5 19 


207 

0 

6 67 


2f) fr iFii It 

0 

0 73 


211 

0 

11 53 


209 

0 

fl 34 


210 

0 

9 15 


234 

0 

10 01 


^ tfr TR Sq; 

0 

1 71 


R^ST'T if 0 




, 940/2 

0 

1 22 


939/4 

0 

4 84 


939/2+ 3 

0 

a 53 


93S/4 

0 

2 50 


^ q) ■<)* 

0 

5 0« 


938/1 

0 

8 50 


935/3 

0 

4 59 


934/1 

0 

7 81 



[if. 11/2/7 2-#sm('iy 


S.O. t266.—Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum) S. O. No, 3964 dated 31-10-1972 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (SO of 
1962), the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 


5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II- 


SCHEDULE 

Pipeline From D.S,K-148 To G.G.S. VII (VIA Well No. K144) 
State : Gujarat DIstt. & Tal.; Gandhi Nagar 


Village 

Block No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P.Are 

Tarapur 

. 195 

0 

2 

29 


194 

0 

00 

00 


193 

0 

5 

07 


196 

0 

5 

53 


197 

0 

10 

91 


198 

0 

5 

19 


207 

0 

6 

67 


V.P. Carl track 

0 

0 

73 


211 

0 

11 

53 


209 

0 

6 

34 


210 

0 

9 

15 


234 

0 

10 

01 


V.P, Cart track 
Survey No, 

0 

1 

71 

UV AR.SAD . 

, 940/2 

0 

1 

22 


939/4 

0 

4 

84 


939/2-f 3 

0 

8 

53 


938/4 

0 

2 

50 


D.L.B. Road 

0 

5 

06 


938/1 

0 

8 

50 


935/3 

0 

4 

59 


934/1 

0 

7 

81 


[No. ll/2/72-I,&L] 


frwft, 24 adV, 1978 

w. 1267.—^: tnireTiffr i, ot- 

diT 4 'sriWn sffT spjfV) aiftiftTTrir, 1902 (1902 sur 50 ) 

Hirr 3 ^ (i) ^ snfk ftot 

tdiw ^ aihH-jT^RT sin an. tr. 3900, 

14-11-72 ^ U7!m 4 ^ 4 

4i t^qeilti ^ adWn «frl TT^- 

Ml? mT ^ 51? TNli^ ^ Sftsfrr tfTT tJERT 

31IW dtqrf tin «n, 

3ffl STWi 11^ RlftlWt TW aiftfftnni ITTTT 6 
^ isnwr (1) ^ 3r#T ^ntifTT ^ f ^ : 

3ffl Tl fTTH tpd 

<TTerTti; ?f?rnr pf trfir-rt 

'39<ik tfiT tjlWn 3it^ sfTT if*, 


And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 


Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred bv 
sub-section (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shah instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on thi.s date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


tnn 6 dMUril ( 1 ) 
?TTT qiT Mqid qnff 57 ? shwh tyrq^qTrr 

ElffcRf qrTfft ^ fTT arf'VTlTl'tT if ri-' 

Mdtfse if Ttpifri- qtr ajftiqTH q igqri l jd 

fqiiFt Hdlijid q? ar^siV fVjn- sim f 

TO nm qff gTTOTTT (4) ^ rto qrr 'rof 

®P7if ^ irTTHT ^ fqj if 

qn sftifqrR qi^q- rwk if fqfro ^f^ qwFT 
fr»(T ifV if, tjiff »Ftrqrf q? ^ jrf; 

ftf ’jrfw 4 RqvHHr qff pr rmW qrf ti ffm 1 




1727 


Sec. 3(ii)] lilE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 




'em :’j7r!:t4 

ftmr : mlR wrht! ; 


^27 

>417 $ 

R-sRr . 71 0 /1 

0 

1 95 

7 to /2 

0 

1 95 

712/1 

0 

3 25 

712/2 

0 

3 25 

71 1 

0 

3 90 

0 0 9 

0 

.3 2 5 

070 

C) 

4 50 


[fTOTT 11 / 2/72 ^ 


New Delhi, the 24th Apiil, 1973 

S.O. 1267.—Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3906 dated 14-11-1972 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962), the Ccntial Government decluied its intention to 
acquire the Kiyhl of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the puropse of 
laying pipelines; 

And wliereas the Competent Authority has under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Ccntial Governnient has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands .specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now thcrefoie in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (1) of .section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the riglit of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Govemment vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encumbrances. 


SCHEDULE 


Pipeline ft 

:om Well No. 157 to 44 to G.G.S. 

III 


State ! Gujarat 

Dlst. : Broach Tal. ; 

Ankleshwar 

Village 

Survey No, 

Hectare Are 

P, 

Are 

Adol 

710/1 

0 

1 

95 


710/2 

0 

1 

95 


712/1 

0 

3 

25 


712/2 

0 

3 

25 


711 

0 

3 

90 


669 

0 

3 

25 


670 

0 

4 

50 


Iff iWFf trafsHf Bi? ortsfa ^ 

31TO- ^rtf«rrr 5P7 »it, 

^Trf: ^ tJTTT 0 

iJWTT (1) 4 3r#f ^ ^ ^ ^ : 

3liV <4 q: qVj/J't tl <=ti|< ^ 47 ^ 

7? tfiT 3)rr MtppsTR krRT 

SK, aRT: 13^ arhlfRRR RRT 6 57RRT (1) 

5RT h'lti ^ Jl-qNl ^ m' 7 /i'ii RWR ttff^SRT 

4' trqqk 15R 3lftRfiT7 

kuk rrEtr qi ^/Nrr stmi 

tIRT ^ OTtlRT (4) ^TRT iTTfR Tlf'+dR'I ^ IRfk 

^ ^ RTTiR ^ fsp rtRT 

RtRlk sfiT •aifRW RTTiR Ff Ifk ^ ’TRRT 

fk RtR lll!f ?dqi jfR aiRflrr ti', RTtf 

fTT kw q? jpmr 577 mVW trl ^rr 1 

wqTft 

TirtRo 146^132^ 5itqff PR HImt 


TTTO ; ipTOR fkwT : rAr tnRJTT : 




1^37 tr 

3TR ^ tT 4 307 t 


623 

0 

2 

08 


624 

0 

12 

35 


[?reRT 11/2/72 ?k? tTTTB 


S.O. 1268.—Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chomical.i 
(Department of Petroleum) S, O. No. 3908 dated 14-11-1972 
under sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962), the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
■section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And further whereas the Central Government has aftei 
consideiing the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-scction (1) of the section 6 of the said Act, the Centr^ 
Government hcieby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Governnient vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free from all encuinbranccs. 


[No. 11/2/72-L&L] 

efT. aiT. 1268 .—RtT: tkHVRr 41^770^ ^ OT- 

Rk ^ sffRTnr *irr sok) ^ity ?###', 1002 (1002 m .50) 
mrr 3 7:^ rwtt (D r? akk ^irr 7 mm 'fkkmr 
afi*7 TORTR RTTeftr ^ arftjnI atT. R 3008, k 
14-11-72 flRT RTTIR =t ^ afty7(;mTT 4 ReRR 

aR ^r k k kkrfVs rWr 4 arfiiRiTT tk 41^- 


SCHEDULE 

Pipeline from Well No. 146 to 132 to G.G.S. HI 
State ; Gujarat DIst. : Broach Tal. : Ankleshwar 


Village 

Survey No. 


Hectare 

Are P Arc 

A 001 . 

. 623 


0 

2 

08 


624 


0 

12 

35 


[No. n/2/72-L&L] 



1728 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [PART H— 


IPT. W. 1209 —1T?<TW1 ^ 

^rfrr 4 SFT 31 ^) 1002 (1902 ^ so) 

mn 3 ^ ^jwn ( 1 ) mm ^ 

arfl TORT ^ sfTT. an. ?f. 30 O 6 

14"11“72 5TTT ?fmrR ^ ^1' irtciJi 

^ 4 ^ ^ wr- 

^ f*rm4 imiaR- 4 art^fer ami 

aim sittra *irT fr^ *it, 

aifi m: ¥rm Riy^rWy ^ tw arfVymn ^ mn 6 

4] ^WTT CD anftn- Hwn ^ yViJe' ^ ^ : 

ariCi m: ?rnim ^ yVrfa^ t? IWi * 117?} 4 

tmiq; rn arytn^;mi ?iem ar^^f;^ rf faiTnfif^ srfmt 

^1 H '41' I ^ a^^ ^ I ( aiWq ^ <*1 SfiT VqT'I!(‘t)4| V*tl <41 

a^r, am: ^rw arhitmtr 'p^ itri 0 ^ gqwr (i) 
WT imr mW ^ imiTT "^r^y ?;;q inro 
ErtYw «R^it ^ rR' aiftnc;mT ^ tot^t ar^^l 
y*i?'0y^'' ' k! vf^Vrf ^ aifiRm qifmim 

ywpy 4 Wm ^ yVni aifsfn IVm armr t, aii^ 

mn rnmn (4) ?rt nw ififw^rt mirr ^ 

^ nmm yWsfr ^ 

a ci’mIji ^ aifti'fiu 1 ^ y^Vi!n flW 4 ^aiR 

ife- 5rm TiFjrfOT >f?r aiRk j^, ?nfy *Rwy 4 m 

piimTTT 4 nwT !f!^ ?Tr mffer ^571 1 

inj^ 


JUTtRo US^f lOQ^sftoTfteCrnoIV^RWnmp-f^^^fMt 


XWf 

: (picm 

fmr iqA? 

itTittm 1 


qtq 

irqsimito 

^4dl 

mio 

o 

o 




to 

mro ^0 

ai5)3 

305/1 

0 

2 

28 


Go 

O 

to 

0 

2 

27 


304 

0 

18 

85 


306 

0 

1 8 

58 


[Tten \\l%h2 yki tTTTs sfy^TT] 


S,0. 1269—Whereas by a notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals 
(Department of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3905 dated 14-11-1972 
under sub-'ection (1) of section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962), the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User in the lands specified in the 
schedule appended to that notification for the purpose of 
laying pipelines; 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub¬ 
section (1) of section 6 of the said Act, submitted report to 
the Government; 

And furthei whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification; 

Now therefore in exercise of the powers conferred bv 
sub-section (D of the section 6 of the said Act. the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifica¬ 
tion hereby acquired for laying the pipelines; 


And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub¬ 
section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commission free fiom all encumbrances. 

SCHEDULE 


PlpolinoFromWellNo. 145 To 109ToG.G.S. XIV 
State : Gujarat DIst. : Broach Tnl. : Ankloshwar 


Village 

Survey No. 

Hectare 

Are 

P. Are 

Adol 

. 305/1 

0 

2 

28 


305/2 

0 

2 

27 


304 

0 

18 

85 


306 

0 

18 

58 


[No. 11/2/72-I&L) 


•JTT. W. 1270.—mi: tlVfy^'TR' qT?q«l?<i ^ OT- 

tlfiT aifwi 'fiT arsfq-) SfftrfmR, 1962 (1962 ^ 50) 

tmr 3 (1) ^ sni^r mm mwn 4 'f^iyWr 

3ifi imm miH'll 4 \ air. if. 3907 

14-11-72 §TTT BTOl 4 311 arftnfTTm if ifim 

317^11^ yert^f ^ »i;ymy emfrr ^ sTfiiw q^f qr^- 

^ y^ui'i 4 4 y^rtf 3ry3fir qn 3mr 

sum nifW qri y^m m, 

3 ifi mi ir^ RiyiiWf jf 3m sfytjymm q/f mn 0 

4\ 3T«n)rr (i) 4 3r#f urmi q^l yirte^ 4 t 

3ifi m: nwR 4 3w yiqfe' ti yrnri *074 4 

qmRi; fn 3ryiii{;mT if ifipsp 3pp{Tff 4 yq ' ^Ty ti *' i ^ 

^ mW'T qrr 3ymirR ary^fir qn^f *01 y^ymim yqrm f, 

3rT,3m: 3m 3iyuy5Tm qff tmr 6 q;^ 3THTir (i) 
5TTT JKTT ?rym qiT ITIiJtt qriif !i;t) 4 ^ IR^ Ijd^RI 
■qjyqn qrnff jf* yq; ij <h 3fyu q 1 if iflrm ^ 

y^y^yq^ 3 m 34 qf^ qn 3ryiiqm qi gMir r j m 

yqwpf qf qRfm qn^fwi 3ry3f3 yq^ii mm 4 3rfV, 
311 tmr qff 3NmTT (4) sim rtt Tiy^^qy qn Wm qiif 
^ mqm ^ ^ yqi 3m iijymt it 

3qiffrr qiT sfftrqni nmu if' yq^Vr fff ^ quir 

ifw mn vi'^yo'q; ifV smifiT 4, niff qniqrt 4 ^t, 

^ nfmni q? WW3 qtf gm fniW qrf y^fm ^rr i 


jmowT 182 fr 1G2?r ifto 'sffo rm® II ciqTrrmnq 


TITO ■ 

fmr : qxYq 

fitq 

nqw^lfo 

h, mrt 'ffq 



i 

inm 

14 7/1 

0 a 45 


147/2 

0 S 4 5 


149 

0 10 40 



[ 0 fBm 11 / 3/72 (fqi 1^8 ^fynrn 

S.O. 

1270.—Whereas 

by a notification of the Govt, of 


India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (Depart¬ 
ment of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3907 dated 14-11-1972 
Under sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipe¬ 
lines (Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act. 1962 (50 
of 1962), the Central Government declared its intention to 
acquire the Right of User D the lands specified in the sche¬ 
dule appended to that notification for the pui-pose of laying 
pipelines. 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1805 


1729 


And whereas the Competent Authority has under Sub- 
Section (I) of Section 6 of the said Act, submitted report 
to the Government, 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said report, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification, 

Now therefor in exercise of the Power conferred by Sub- 
Section (1) of the Section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this noti¬ 
fication hereby acquired for laying the pipelines. 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by Sub- 
Section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of ves¬ 
ting in the Central Government vest on this date of the pub¬ 
lication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Ga.s Com¬ 
mission free from all encumbrances. 

I 

SCHEDULE 

Pipeline From Well No. 182 to 162 To GGS IT 
State : Gujarat Dlst. : Broach Tal. : Ankleshwar 

Village Survey No. Hectare \rc P. Are 

Sarthan . 147/1 0 8 45 

147/2 0 8 45 

149 0 10 40 

[No. 11/2/72-L&L] 

■air. 1271.—^RT: 4 OT- 

’itn' 4 ajfWR tET 3r#r) 1962 (1962 'FT 50) 

V? tJTTT 3 ^ (1) vrtfr 4 

3liV 7T1FR' TTW^r 'RT. 30. TT. 3760 

30-8-72 TITTT fTRTR rf OT 

Tf 3tfqrf tn^- 

Mi?-!!' iWr4 4 Tr#3Fr ^ arNrr qrpt qq- 
arpTT vtttrrr wf fr^rr tir, 

■sifr 3jfyfirw wm 0 

iTTWr (1) Trmi ^ fprfe' ^ ^ ^ : 

aifV ^ g iW? 4 

fTl' TTeGVT 

'FT ahmi arWVr 'ft iVtrr f, 

3TT, w. iBThTfT'rfT ^ ym e ( 1 ) 

5TTT qqti ^ ^ TIWR t^^iVT 

yffW ’FTTfi- jf* fq; 5TT 3fftTT^/yyT Tt 4' 

ijw 4 doyin ^ arfy'Fn qr ^otdigd 

^Wt 4 4 4 3444 f'ryr iimr 4“ 

yrr yiTT 'i4 irwiT (4) stitt nTfr >fr?'Rn4 'ft nyfy »r74 


^ 4:4Nr TTPFR fy^^T 44i' 4* ^F ^3W tf 

TtptriG tFT 34y^ er'ftt 4 Mffr 4 *RrFr 
4?r fT*TT iTT'ff^tF 44r ^rryfy 4, pnft tFwf 4 tkt t 4, 
?Tr yNitir 4 ?tt nr^BT ^ ?Tf?TT 1 

4<= h.’To ^STTO i ?r '^RTT '■-w: TT 'IIX'FTTIK 
TT^ ' <.1^ flWTT I 


i^ITo 4Vt> TTo 

TTITo 

.541 0 31 2 5 

[trayr 11/2/72 ^f^rm 

3TTT. t?r. 3 tt 7 pfyT 

S.O. 1271.—Whereas by a notification of the Govt, of 
India in the Ministry of Petroleum and Chemicals (Depart¬ 
ment of Petroleum) S. O. No. 3750 dated 30.8.1972 under 
sub-Section (1) of Section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines 
(Acquisition of Right of User in land) Act, 1962 (50 of 
1962), the Central Government declared its intention to ac¬ 
quire the Right of User in the lands specified in the schedule 
appended to the notification for the purpose of laying pipe¬ 
lines, 

And whereas the Competent Authority has under sub- 
Section (1) of Section 6 of the said Act, submitted report 
to the Government, 

And further whereas the Central Government has after 
considering the said leport, decided to acquire the right of 
user in the lands specified in the schedule appended to this 
notification. 

Now therefore in exercise of the Power conferred by 
sub-Scction (1) of the Section 6 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby declares that the right of user in the 
said lands specified in the schedule appended to this notifi¬ 
cation hereby acquired for laying the pipelines. 

And further in exercise of the power conferred by sub- 
Section (4) of that Section, the Central Government directs 
that the right of user in the said lands shall instead of 
vesting in the Central Government vest on this date of the 
publication of this declaration in the Oil & Natural Gas 
Commision free from all encumbrances. 

SCHEDULE 


Pipeline From D.s. Dabka 4 to Flare Point 
State : Gujarat Dist, : Broach Tal : Jambutar 


Villacc 

Survey No. 

Hectaic 

Are P. Are 

Kanwa . 

. 541 

0 

31 25 



[No. 11/2/72-L &L] 
R. N. CHOPRA, Under Secy. 




[Part II— 


1730 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


Pfr^Y, iH 197 3 

i^rto wio 1272 —wiT-irnTT qT qwtftrr inirfi (Rirnipr f^) fNErim 1955 ^ Wwr 5 ?r 
( 1 ) % iTijflTT >qr«rg;fq'q fVqr arrrir t Of firq '‘rn^fk qT™ N? 7^q^fOT:iTTT^,- 


q-q fqiq qrr v^jT^fPi ^ ^fwr vi^.d % ^ quo ?fto pifq fVqror 

fTi»q[ «fh iift^qr fYrat vTFTiaYq RTqqi % Ertjfqnr tY 

BqY 

12 3 4 


1 . . qq. 6 10-19 3 5 «iYt 

■qorrT'q ^rqf'ii ^r iji# arqrq 4 ] ■YYEi 

t 

2 . ipTiGi 1-1955 iqqR 'rm-uir'Y 

tY YYPr hF^t 


3 . !HT^ qq: 1 29 1 - 1 958 q'q^ff li % 
qq^i (^tY-stYi; ijIYtt w) qY fYrfTT'^ 

4. snt.q,^r. 1510-19 59 !irr?n: ^ f^rq 

JFqqiWr sari aY 

5 . ITR :25S5-1963 >MY'HirW 

qfrsTW ^rY siYirqrsrqi aY fYftife 


q^Fo tiTTo wYo 710 pPm? 10 qrYl9 5G 

'flWF % <10193^ irra 2 3 09919? 24 

RF^, 1950 Y aanfinq 

quo mi: Yfo 710 ftqt'n 10 rtY, 1950 
Y TriFTW wra 2 3 Pt^Pf? 24 

RfY, 1950 Y RTllPircT 

qqo Yto 2110 ftoTV 17 iYTa*5T, 19S9 
miTT « ini'Rf 'HR 2 wo? 3 ^sawo? 2 
faqpp 26 1950 Y aanpira 

rrjTo Yto 249 4 iRia? 5 31^2^, 19 00 

iriiR $ TROW mo 2 wos awio? ( 2 ) 
fYYri: 15 loeo Y nwiFi’T? 

qqo «iYo 950 ftniw 0 mt, io64'0it?t% 
TfiR^ mir 2 *ao? 3 stwo? ( 2 ) PrYp 
21 rtY, 1904 Y n+rfvio 


m^o F^no.Gisi (ma 2 ) 1971 wriw 
HpiRT niq 2 laoY % YYn ri'ir 139 ^ Y 
ettY u5tY YYt no^Tna mmtY mqFq 
matiiYY, Yr a^ooiiT % “iK WT Pioi 
qm?: I 

5TTf O quo : 0 1 5 1 ('OPT 2) 1971 WT70F 
aai'tj Y1w WF 2 lYYt Y YPsr tiqi laqii Y? 
sn;Y-?j5rY YYi: vt"?roi hrehY irrmR 
RiqtFiYY, ^ qqiTiFFii' % qn: 

fYqi w 11 

311 ^0 q.Ho ■ 920 - 1 9 7 2 quiYi Yf ^^q^Yq Yi fiiq 

‘ >0 

^imROF qjFT wYq qwqft Y? meY Y? qqw 
qY fqfvFR (q^ ^q.) Y? uqraq Y? 
qn: kiiF qqi 1 

Stf^o qqo 1 509-1972 qw «FF?Tt w P^q 

sfqYm' qY fYPFife (qfj p.) w qqrrvFq’ 
w qi? qR fqqi irt f I 
iqifo iTHo : 1824- 1671 qY-jqraqi qY 
fYfvrfos (q? (q;q’) Y:qqrniH Yq^qqiq 
fqqr nqr 1 1 


[Yo YYo qqo Yfo/i3; 7 ] 
qo YYo TR, PiYiiqi (Yf^oi RiqY) 

MINISTRY OF INDUSTRL4L DEVELOPMENT, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 

New Delhi, the 18 April, 1973 
INDIAN STANDARDS INSTITUTION 

S. O, 1272—Ii; poisuanco of sub-renLiiation (t) of Rcpulation 5 of Iho Indian Standards Institiilion (Cerlification Marks) 
Rcgukilions, 1955, as amended from time lo lime, it is, hereby, notified that tho Indian Standards, particulars of which ate menlioncd in 
tlic Schedule given hereafter, have been cancelled ; 

SCHEDULE 


SI. No, and Title of the Indian Standard S.O.No. and Date of Gazette Notification in Remarks 

No. Cancelled which Establishment of the Indian Standa¬ 

rd was notified 


(1) _(2) 


(3) 


(4) 


1. 13:610—-195.5 Calc of practice for storage of 
food grain anJ its protection during storage 

2, 13:611-1955 Code of practice for handling 
of food grain 


3. IS:1291—1958 Specification for cattle 
licks (plain & mineralized) 


4. IS :1510—1959 Specification for tapioca flour 
for animal feed 


5 IS:.2555—1963 Specification for official 
tost insecUcidc 


S.R.O. 710 dated 16 March, 1956 published 
in tho Gazette of India, Part II, Scction-3 
dated 24^March, 1956. 

S R.O. 710 dated 16 March, 1956 published 
m the Gazette of India, Part U, Section- 3 
dated 24 March, 1956. 


S.0.2110 dated 17 September, 1959 published 
in the Gazette of India, Part II, Seclion- 
3, Sub-section (ii) dated 26 September. 
1959 

S.0.2494 dated 3 October 1960 published in 
the Gazette of India, Fart II, Seclion-3, 
Sub-section (ii) dated 15 October, 1960 

S.O. 950 dated 6 March, 1964 published in 
the Gazette of India, Part II, Section-3, 
Sub-section (ii) dated 21 March, 1964 


Cancelled in view of publicalion of TS:6151 
(Pt. 11)-1971 Storage management code 
Part II General care m handling and 
storage of agricLiliural produce and inpuls. 

Cancelled in view of publication of IS:615] 
(Pt II)-1971 Storage management code 
Part 11 General care in handling and 
storage of agricultural produce and in¬ 
puts. 

Cancelled in view of publication of 
TS:920—1977 Specificalion for common 
salt and catilo licks for animal consump¬ 
tion. 

(first revision) 

Cancelled in view of publication of TS: 
1509-1972 Specificalion for iri'icca 
ae live slock feed. 

(first revision) 

Cancelled in view of publicalion of IS: 
1824—1971 Specification for household 
insecticidal spray. 

(first revision) 



1731 


Sec. 3(ii) ] IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


(WIW ^«niFT) 

13 3nJVr, 1973 

qrr. an-. 1273 .—^: Frirt-^r 

^ 23 1962 W. TT. af|. 2446 

5^5^ WfiR ^ ^ »Tmfhr ?flf«br4rrT 

arhlfr^T, 1950 (1956 'FT 102) ^ H’^NhT ^ ^[;fT- 

3{TT ^ 51TT, fWT TT. 

ar^ nPT f^t^rwr arfrr ?Mi', 

ari^ ?Tfk 'fit qm- tw 

^ arfV art arr^ ^ tf ^ ?rq- iF i^ftw j^, 

ar^wT TT *Rf«f qr^f xr^rtarTf ^ iVar^ 

gM s i ?i-qd^6 , set? ^ itm ^rT«wr 

^ 1 

ai^: arr, Tw arhrtqw qt? miT 14 qtt (i) 

qraqa?; 4 ^ (t) nn qrwr ^frr(f ?73 nrqn? 


(1) 31 fr^THT?, 1973 ^ ^EIFT ?Ft qT?t airnixfi- 
arqiHr, arw 

(2) arqfy xd- arr xn; ?t. ?VtT jftsqflai, 
qr^Wt s i ?r^c i H xF^, tM it ?rm- ?rRf%r 
TT^ art qnr ?i ai^ 

t, T'^iTxrt xfxrfnar rtts-qrar rtfqsrr 567 i 

[T af. rtt. iioi8/i7/72'tEPr.rtt.rtt.i 


MINISTRY OF MEATTII AND FAMILY PI.ANNING 
(Department of Health) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, Iho 13tli April, 1973 

S.O. 1273.—Whereas by (he notification of the Govern¬ 
ment of India in the Into Ministry of Health No. S.O. 2446 
dated the 23rd July, 1962, the Central Government has directed 
that (he medical qualification, “M.D.” granted by the Uni¬ 
versity of (.ieorgetown, Wa-shingdon, shall be a recognised 
medical qualification for the purposes of the Indian Medical 
Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956); 

And whereas Dr. Eileen Niedficld who possesses the 
said qualilicalion and is registered medical practitioner in her 
own country is lor the tune being attached fo the Holy 
Family Ilospital, M.andar, Ranchi District for the purposes 
of leaching, resetiich and charilablc work; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the 
proviso to sub-scction (1) of section 14 of the said Act, the 
Central Government hereby specifies— 

(i) a fuithcr period ending with the 31st December, 
1973, or 

(ii) the period during which Dr. Eileen Nicdfleld is attached 
to the said Holy Family Hospital, Mandar, Ranchi 
District whichever is shorter, as the period to which 
the medical pi.iclicc by the aforesaid doctor .shall be 
limited. 


[No. V. 11016/17/72-MPT] 


^ le 1973 

qrr. -an-. 1374.—w: srnrthr M'rmr (wM^ilidf 

fgfqrOTT ^EFFTert, 1961 ^ iWf 4 ^ 

( 2 ) ^ FFf qPTr 

(1956 qrr 102) qrt frnr 20 qrt uwir (3) fsk ^ 
TTT ttt sfiTFr si? ijw=wf m apprurr ^irrrt @15 

FTiim rt qrrtff t?f. wt. rtt. tjfr. i?t. 

rtt, iH. t?T. rtVn i atfq? rts^ftFT tjxs fkfkTfr rttsqw 
qrt cr. w. tfr. rtr fsEm fFW irt ^ rt", 
4 FFTT 77 HliFti'ledt fjfT^ tFT FTFT 

FFtrtk fqrqr if I 

SET: 31T arfy?H'!iri qsrt mn 20 'firt ^rqwT ( 1 ) q? 
^ FTW TTkfFrf qrr XErtTf 'Tlrt ^ 717^ REfT 

7f7TT7 TTOwf t?r qikm V-ftrivu, tq-qk t^ anriTr 

TFT dn krTT rtWT (tFTTW iVwT) 13 ^Tltk, 

1970 'firt ^tJ 7 { 7 RT TreFT t^T. ait. 1476 4 fdTT- 

firflsTT TTltflT SFTffi- rt* “ 

TTT srhirrdFT 4 ?mn7 ^fttt Rdirtk” Tftrtq; 

^ arrtk TTSTf 6 q? RTdrt dfWiW wet q7 

T7lH?M?a(i xrtqfBg nftn^ikd (ft irt sift :— 

"(jrrter OT. fWth art^ rtt^fTT frtfTrw, 

jtfs^TTr arrtkij,” 

[TreFT rtf. 11019/1/73 tjrr.rtf. c^.] 

New Delhi, the 16th April, 1973 

S.O. 1274.—Whereas the Central Government has, in 

pursuance of the provisions of sub-Section (3) of Section 
20 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 of 1956), 
(hereinafter referred to as the said Act) read with sub-rule 
(2) of fiile 4 of the Indian Medical Council (Post-graduate 
Medical Education Committee) Rules, 1961, nominated 
Col. M. Tiajuddin, MBBS, MD, DTM & H, Professor of 
Medicine and Principal, Medical College, Aligarh, to bo a 
member of the Post-graduate Medical Education Committee 
vice Dr. S. N. Sen expired, 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-Section (1) of Section 20 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendment in 
the notification of the Government of India in the late 
Ministry of Health and Family Planning and Works, 
Housing and Urban Development (Department of Health) 
No. S. O. 1475, dated the f3th April, 1970, namely:—- 

In the said notification, under the heading ‘‘Nominated 
by the Central Government”, for the entry against serial 
No. 6 , the following entry shall be substituted, namely:— 

"Col. M. Tajiiddin, MBBS, MD, DTM & H, Professor 
of Medicine and Principal, Medical College, Aligarh” 

[No. V.l 1019/1/73-MPT] 

^ Wwrt, 18 arrt^, 1973 

WT. OT. 5373.—<tci. qitd r-t <=ti I < rt) b.,0 '^rt TFTEkT rtFPrTT 
^ frkrti 22 srrtpT, i960 Frt ttstt 17 - 2 / 6 O kr. 

^FITT TTW rt 'fTFT rt' ^irtk 

1956 (1956 Fri 102) ^ 

rtdiTTri^ifd'm, TkxTT 7T7T apn/i-ifiT fITTT FTfsT “WT. 5^. 
TFFT; MVfTT 31^ JTFTt WWfT ar^kr ?W, atf? TRT: 



1732 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


imftf *1? ^ iVw?r ^ ^trqw, 

^5rW ^iNfl ^ HT*T iH 1'^ ^ I 

STTf: "dtin 3fftrf^r^nT ^ OTTT 14 ^ 'dMwxi (I) ^ 

Mt'Tij'T) ^ iiFT (^) ^ MM1 ?rwR — 

CD 31 1973 ^TEPW ^ SPlftT 3inl. 

arw 

(2) ^ 3r7t»r ^ 5nr ?n! CisTm^) ffr. 

^ STT ^ afFTw, iT^ fsmr iM ^ 

^Tw iipl :ir[ ift’rrr wt T? 

T^fw ¥T. ^ I 

[^fw 11010 / 2/73 tJtrA 

%. ^ ^W'^r r, 3nT7 ?r?^ 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 18th April, 1973 

S.O. 1275.—Whereas by the notification of the Govern¬ 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Health No. 17-2/60- 
MI, dated the 22nd April^ 1960, the Central Government 
has directed that the Medical qualification, M. D. (Pennsyl¬ 
vania, USA) shall be a recognised medical quallflsation for 
the purpose of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (102 
of 1956), 

And whereas Dr. (Miss) Helen C. Lalinsky, who posses¬ 
ses the said qualification is for the time being attached to 
the Holy Family Hospital, Mandar, District Ranchi for the 
purposes of charitable work, 

Now therefore, in pursuance of clause (c) of the proviso 
to sub-Section (1) of Section 14 of the said Act, the Central 
Government hereby specifies:— 

(i) a further period ending on the 3l9t December, 1973, 
or 

(ii) the period during which Dr. (Miss) Helen C. 
Lalinsky is attached to the said Holy Family Hos¬ 
pital, Mandar, Di.strict Ranchi, whichever is shorter, 
as the period to which the medical practice by the 
aforesaid doctor shall be limited. 

[No. V. 11016/2/73-MPT] 
Km. SATHI BALAKRISHNA, Under Secy. 


arfi Jn*T? tTRHHT ■HMIW'I 

24 1973 

an. 1276.—WTTFT 1937 ^ 75 

RTW 'fir imtH qmt 573 HTTfl HV<h|< 

grr iHFT Vt ^ ^ 'P7 30 ^ 1973 f 

RTTcT nt =t>I< ^ H'J'c'i 3itV Hri't HFT'T 
aPE# CT. q 15013/9/73-q, 

21-3-1973, fWT f^ElTHr ’Nrsf 3(1^ Sim ^ 

sTKft ^ !ni 3ifiHf;m if M^it^ reihI' t7 

anEft 3Tf^ 3frr qinf uBi'-d ^ ^ 

RTW ^ ifiTT I 

[q?T, w. 11 . if. 15013/9/73-q.i 

'TPl' ^(T, TT 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1973 

S.O. 1276 .—^In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 75 
of the Aircraft Rules, 1937, the Central Government hereby 
extends npto the 30th June, 1973, the period of time within 
which the Court of Inquiry appointed by the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Tourism and CivU Aviation by 
notification No. Av. 15013/9/73-A dated the 21st March, 
1973, will be expected to complete Its inquiry into the matters 
specified in the notification mentioned above and report to 
the Central Government. 

[File No. Av. 15013/9/73-A] 
S, N, KAUL, Dy. Secy. 

(irfrTT’r wsD 

^ 29 Rpf, 1973 

ATT. 31T, 1277.—iR^ (flffN" iftnT) fri'tiu. 

1946 if aifi W f finfafac i 

JRFTq- !lf#r mUR irfiJT IR^ 1939 

(1939 qlT 4) IRTT 111 fRTTT JRTTfl ipT JEliTT 

iTTf ^ Iff RVRRER 'rTsfi' ^ 1 tJR- g<l?4^<rT 
Vt ^TETRTRf qv sj ttii ^fiiH RHiVqi 

§■' RSbif'iim tmr srrt ^ atif tJft^fqm ^ ^ h 

RTRPT TI 16 1973 RT RTfxf HEHT TTSm qf JltW 

aRii arm qf RRvrnT rttti' ini' qf RTifgr 30 ^pr wf 
*lf wr^ rf ^ ^ trrmr 5 Vrtt tswr wrr 1 

RTfSHT RTW fqrtf wqtqfR- # 3ft aTT^iR- RT 
RFfT #t RR- T? ^ JIRRI Rl/tia- R 

RrqiR ^"RITT ^qqit t'qi qi ’diet'll 1 

jjiw M fsnnr 

1 . ^EHrt RR RTR Rt57 RT^ (f[ffk R^[rq!H 4tRT) 

RHttFT fmR", 1973 fftRI ( 

2. Rtel RT^ (f[fftR- T^TRfH fmR-, 1946 ^ fRRR- 

15^ RT'fmcr (1 RRET <n RR-fTlRR- 

«ai RRRR aEtfR" :— 

“l5-^-(l) t'Rfy 1 RRSr RTf ?t RtgRT RTltNvrqf 

Tjfw f PfiNfr tVtR 5fR?RT aiif tj-qR- qrf j|% 

m RTRfR w smr rsr RifRi” 1 

[R. 41-^, q. 5ft. (1)/70I 
RR. R. R. RTRWR, aiRT R^RR 

MINISTRY OF SHIPPING AND TRANSPORT 
(Transport Wing) 

New Delhi, the 29th March, 1973 

S.O. 1277.—The following draft rules further to amend the 
Motoi Vehicles (Third Party Insurance) Rules, 1946, which 
the Central Government proposes to make in exercise of 
the powers conferred by section 111 of the Motor Vehicles 
Act, 1939 (4 of 1939), is published for the information of 
persons likely to be affected thereby, and notice is hereby 



1733 


Sec. 3(ii) ] 'IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


20. sfhrrfr 

21. ^ ^ 

22. TTSFTTTRtir 

23. 3TT7. T?r. 

24. “Jft tj. q?. 

25. sf. ?IT? 

26. h'J|i?h4( 

27. 5Tf5tTtT ir=T. 

28. sfNrTfi’ ITH’. 

[qnfijr wott 11 / 3 / 72 -tTT. 


given that the said draft will be taken into consideration 
after the 15th May, 1973 or after the expiry of a period of 
thirty days from the date on which the gazette copies con¬ 
taining the said rules are made available to the genera) public, 
whichever is later, 

j\ny objections or suggestions, which may be received from 
any person with respect to the said draft before the date 
specified above, wUl bo considered by the Central Government. 

DRAFT RULES 

1. These rules may bo called the Motor Vehicles {Third 
Party Insurance) Amendment Rules, 1973. 

2. In rule 1.5B of the Motor Vehicles (Third Party Insu¬ 
rance) Rules, 1946, for sub-rule (1), the following sub-rule 
shall be substituted, namely;— 

“15B,—(1) The Fund shall bo established with an initial 
amoimt of not less than rupees one lakh and the 
said amount shall be kept in deposit with -the bank 
or the Government.’’, 

[No. 41-TAG(l)/70] 
N. A. A. NARAYANAN, Under Secy. 

3lf? HMIlfl 

^ 31 Rpf, 1973 

<irT. OT. 1278.—arftrfBW, 1952 unr 5 ( 1 ) 

1968 4 9 (2) 

RW ifsTT 8 ^ (3) fTRT RTffT SlfiT^ 

^ inTh" ^rrff ?;t3, fqrvir 

«rh^ TTiR^f qrr^ 1771 ^ dTTT «5rfw«i'f qit 

Tleff 3nfV, 1973 # 30 1973 fl^, TTfr 4 

tnmrqiR "IW qr fqn frtyRr 

1 . spTTFfWl 

2. nf. q?. sff. dfirw 

8. ITR. TIT. N 

4. Iff. 

6 . cf. vff. 

6. nt. +),< efi Sinij,! 

7. «fr t ^n tfi 

8. n. (^fftfrft') 4f. 

9. sffRrd qnretT ffr?rqi 

10 . q^RT 4. 4^ 

11 . ST. TB'. 

12. gfcHf tTB'. B^IWI 

13. Bfhpfer ^bT?^ 

14 . «fWff sf. 'ff. qVfsrqr 

15. 8TWf qT?f 

16. jff TB-. !?n? 

17. sft- BTflTTB bM 

18. TTR BlfB- 

19. sfr tTBT. t. 

11 G of 1/73—6 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 31st March, 1973 

. .S.O. 1278. —In exercise of the powers conferred by section 
5(1) of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 and sub-rule (3) of 
rule 8 read with sub-rule 2 of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby re¬ 
appoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film (Jensors as members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Bombay with effect from Is’ April, 
1973 upto 30th June, 1793 :— 

1. Shri Kamalcshwar 

2. Prof. K. G. Aggarwal 

3. Shri S. S. Rege 

4. Prof. (Smt.) Vijaya Rajadhyaksha 

5. Shri D. G. Nadkarni 

6. Prof. Murli Thakur 

7. Shri G. K. Dutia 

8. Dr. (Smt.) Chariishccia B. Gupta. 

9. Smt, Kamala TOak 

10. Smt. Padma K. Desai 

11. Dr. (Miss) Labuben S. Sonoji 

12. Smt. Nalini S. Sukttfankar 

13. Smt. Manibcn Desai 

14. Smt. T, V. Dehejia 

15. Smt. Laxmi Wahl 

16. Shri S, D. Shah 

17. Shri Ganga Ram Josh! 

18. Shri Rama Narang 

19. Shri S. E. Hassnain 

20. Smt. Kamala Diia 

21. Shri Talakshi Shah 

22. Shri Rajnarain Singh 

23. Smt. R. S. BOga 

24. Shri A. K. Banerjee 

25. Shri Rasik J. Shah 

26. Smt. Mrinalini Choksl 

27. Smt. Lalita N. Bapat 

28. Smt, S. Gulrajani 

[F. No. 11/3/72-FC] 

qrr. air. 1279 .—)3rhi?H^4-r, 1952 qfl tmr 5 CD 
dffl (if^) fffBBTT#, 1958 9 4 TT' 

PtsTT C2) BW qfjB' PbW 8 gr-PBTB' (3) 

RTcB qriWif qff iTBfB' qrnf 1577 , Brqtn 4 

EffTffBRT fqrPT fNn ^ TUB^ qrnf 4 Biq, 

P-u^PfriPad E^Pq-dq'!' qrf i BifB, 1973 30 1973 



[Part U— 


1734 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 

1. Sft 

2. '^’'fnrPT 

3. ^ 'TWTT ?^;^NTncrw ttt 

4. 

6. tFT, Tit^'T-i ^ 

6. 'sftinift' 'TW, 3r«n 

7. 'sfi' <fl’. TR’ 

8. irf. rpT. irfr-siw »T^ 

9. 5ttt^ 

10. sfr rmfw^ 

11. 5fi-. TTT^ 

12. sfrorefr 307. 

13. 4 'f[. »Tnrf[nft 

14. sftriTfl w 5?rW 

15. «fhT7ft #=T7T ift. 4)l4l/l 

16. ^fNrfr 

17. m Jfmf 

18. sf[ ^ft-, tr^. ijftf'JTW 

19. '-ftOTft TEft frTT^ 

20 . 

21. ^fhofTT tpf. w. »T^r 

22. TTT. 

23. sf^PRfi' 'Tr«fHTr»ft 

24. ^HTl^ >f^. TIFTTT^ 

26. «ftTRft ITT. ^fkFTTfi' 

26. sfrfTrft TTT^ 

27, sftrrfV rMVft 'fWrw^ 

28, rr. (OiTTTl^) ^ft. 'TO'. -fftHIOrft 

29. ^fNiTfr ?VmT 

20. sfWft TTRT 

W. ITOJ ll/4/72'(TO;. tfi-] 

S.O. 1279.—Tn exercise of the powers conferred by Section 
5(1) of the Cincmatogrnph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of 
rule 8 read with Sub-rule (2) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
re-appoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Cetisors, as members of the Advisory 
Panel of the said Board at Madras with effect Irom 1st April, 
1973 upto 30th June, 1973 

1. Shri T. Neelakanthan 

2. Smt. Soundra Kailasam 

3. Shri Pakala .Suryanarayana Rao 

4. Shri Mohd, Yousuf Kokan 

5. ,Shri M. Govindan 

6. Smt. C. F. Mecnakthi Atnma 

7. Shi'i P. V. Chalapatheswara Rao 


, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 

8. Prof. M. Mariappa Bhat 

9. Smt. Maiy Clubwala Jadhav 

10. Shii P, K. Ramalingam 

11. Shri G. Varadappa 

12. Smt. R. Suvarna 

13. Smt. P. V. Bhagirathi 

14. Smt. Bertha Txrbo 

15. Smt. Indira D. Kothari 

16. Smt. Malati Chendur 

17. Shri C. R. Sarma 

18. Shri P. S. Srinivasa 

19. Smt. Raji Rangachari 

20. Smt. Padmini Achutha Menon 

21. Smt. N. S. Mani 

22. Dr. S. Vijayalakshmi 

23. Smt. Leela Parthasarlhi 

24. J^imari P. Shanta Bai 

25. Smt. M. I.eelavathi 

26. Smt. Sarojini Varadappan 

27. Smt. Rohini Krishnachandra 

28. Dr. (Miss) C. M. Leelavati 

29. Smt. Hemlata Anjaneyulu 

30. Smt. Sara Syed Yusnff 

[F, No. 11/4/72-FC] 

3 IT. nso.—n^hPT aftvfjTw, 1952 ^ tn^T 5(1) 

aifl ncrfVf (tNr) 1968 ^ tVfT 9 i3T- 

( 2 ) RPT 'itjnT ^rw 8 (3) ^i 

RW TftfffErf Rff RRi^T RiTTt ^l*r Hi <hW ^ 

rtH- ^ 

stifwrF ^ 1 1973 30 1973 

flRi, iJW t tVWdi Wr OtdlgthK RT hr? 

?RrRT tC r— 

1. i3TTT 

2. oft TirET 

3. VI*tnl 

4. VNifft ^ 

5. VhTrfl irf*RT ^ 

6. ^trar 

7. ^ 

8. Vt WR# 

9. Vl' OTf. tfl. 

10. aFExT R^PTTT 

11. Vf' nioVri; ^ 

12. Vhrfi' ^ ?gET 

13. Vt TeN' 3EEr tfexT 

14. Vhrffr anrVl 

[tm^Tr 7E5RT ll/5/72-trJi lifi'] 

S.O. 1280.—^In exercise of the powcr.s conferred by section 
5(1) of the Cincmatjigraph Act, 1952, and sub-rule (3) of rule 
8 read with sub-rule (2) of rule 9 of the Cinematograph 
(Censorship) Rules, 1958, the Central Government hereby 
re-appoints the following persons after consultation with the 
Central Board of Film Censors, as members of the Advisory 



Sec. 3(ii) J 


1735 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


PuncI of the said Board at Calcutta with effect from Isl April. 
1973 upto 30th June, 1973 

1. Smt, Unia Sahanabis 

2. Shli Sailen Mookerje 

3. Smt. Kajal Scti Gupta 

4. Smt. Abu Sayeed Ayyub 

5. Smt. Shaibya Dutt 

6. Smt. Asha Puma Dcbi 

7. Smt. Rita Ray 

S- Shri Sujit K, ChakrabartI 

9. Shi'i R. P. Gupta 

10. Shri Anant Mahapatra 

11. Shri Saumyendra Nath TafiOrc 

12. Smt. Usha Khan 

13. Shri Ranen Ayan Dulla 

14. Smt. Jayasree Sen 

[F. No. 11/5/72-FC] 

OT. 1J81.—1962 ^ WTTT 3 
(1) fffTTT ^ RRIr 

3nfV, 1973 30 5(;R, 1973 ffRi, IWeR 

«FT ^fTf RRW fVRT f 

1. vft 307. aroRra' 

2. t?. R?r. 

3. 307, 

4. 3ft R730T7 

5. ^fftrfft 41*11 17 ,**let 

0 . ^ftRrft QB. 'iw 

7, 3ftRlft 157 ^ 

8. 3ft 7ft. 307. 

[tTn^eT TT^ 11/6/724??). Tft.l 
tTrf;, 3707 TTtRff 

S.O. 1281.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of section 3 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952, 
the Central Government hereby re-appoints the rollowing per¬ 
sons as members of the Central Board of Film Censors with 
effect from 1st April, 1973 upto 30th June, 1973 :— 

1. Shri B. R. Agarwal 

2. Shri A. L. Sriniv.isan 

3. Shri B. R. Chopra 

4. Shri B. N. Sircar 

5. Smt. Veena Duggal 

6. Smt. M. Nasrullah 

7. Smt. Surrinder Gupta 

8. Shii C'. R. Sundaiam 

[F. No. 11/6/72-FCl 
HARJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 

10 3ri!V, 1973 

tFT. 30. 1282—HFffftR 3?fatoOTT, 1910 (1910 ^ 

9) oft tITTT 30 oft 'JR-tflTT (1) tfriVoOT oft 

otroRfor Tft, ol-s/io Trrom tm^Ywr %rr-?ff7ft^F0i, 

o/tRT TRW oft efwiftk, ^ttffOftTT Sift 

7R(;5 0? 7TR 7RO p,k TrTR'tr tft ^ ^TR jf 

3riV fVfrpr ?R7ft^ sftft tHgM3, foy-i^-^Rfte-TO; 


wftore ^ ^^rf^-^T7ft^T0i ^ TtRTROl 'RftyRofTRt 4 

STR jft OFTCft f \ 

[ft. ?*rRftf4ft.-4(4)/67] 
t?T, 7TRFTTRR, wft-l^^lOi (TotIjO) 

MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

New Delhi, the 10th April, 1973 

S.O. 1282.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of section 36 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 
(9 of 1910), Ihe Central Government hereby appoint the 
Chief Electrical Inspectoi' to the Government of Kerala to 
be the Electrical Inspectoi- in respect of the Union territory of 
Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands and the Regional 
Electrical Injector and the Assistant Electrical Inspector at 
Calicut as officers to assist the Chief Electrical Inspector. 

[No. EL, lI-4(4)/67] 
M. RA.VIANATHAN, Dy, Director (Power) 

MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND REHABILITATION 
(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1973 

S.O. 1283. —In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis¬ 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, No. 3, Dhanbad, in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the management of 
Kharkharee Colliery of Bharat Mining Corpoiation Limited, 
Post Office Kharkharee, District Dhanbad and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the 17th 
April, 1973. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAT,- 
CUM-LABOUR COURT NO. 3, DHANBAD 
Reference No. 38 of 1969 

Present: 

Shri B, S. Tripathi, Presiding Officer. 

Parties: 

(1) Management of Kharkharee (Colliery of Bharat Mining 
Corporation limited, P.O. Kharkhaiee. District 
Dhanbad. 

(2) Bharat Coking Coal Limited, Dhanbad (added as 

a party to the pr oceeding as per Order No. 23 dated 
23-3-72), 

AND 

Their workmen represented by Bihar Kovla Mazdoor 
Sabha, Phanbad. 

Appearances ; 

For M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited—Shff 
P. K. Bose, Advocate. 

For Bharat Coking Coal Limited—Shri S. S, Mukherjee, 
Advocate. 

For Workmen—Shri Lalit Biirman, General Secretary, 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha, 

State ; Bihar. Industry ; Coal. 

Dhanbad, the iOth April, 1973 
AWARD 

The Central Government in the Ministry of Labour, 
Employment & Rehabilitation (Department of Ltibour & 
Elmployment) being of the opinion that an industrial dispute 
exists between the employers in relation to the management 
of Kharkharee Colliery of M/s. Bharat Mning Corporation 
Ltd., P.O. Kharkharee, DIst. Dhanbad and their workmen 
in respect of Ihe matleis specified in the schedule of reference, 
by their Older No 2/54/69-1 RIl dated 26-5-69 refened the 
said dispute under Section 10(1 )(d) of the Industrial Disputes 
Act, 1947 to this Tribunal for adjudication. The schedule 
of leference is extracted below: 



1736 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5. 1973/VAISAKHA 15. 1895 


IPart II— 


SCHEDULE 

"Whether the action of the management of Kharkharee 
Colliery of M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited 
P.O. Kharkharee, Dist. Dhanbad terminatinif the 
services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh, Electrician, 
with effect from 1st October, 1968 was jusiihcd ? If 
not, to what relief is the workman concerned 
entitled ?" 

2. The reference was received in this Tribunal on 6-6-69 
when it was registered as reference No. 38 of 1969. The 
industrial dispute in question was sponsored by the Bihar 
Koyala Mazdoor Sabha before the Conciliation Officer and 
the same union represented the concerned workmen in the 
present proceeding. The written statement of M/s Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited was received in this Tribunal on 
17-6-69 and that filed on bchall of the workmen was received 
here on 21-6-69. During the pendency of the present pro¬ 
ceeding the management of the coDieiy in question vested in 
the Central Government and then in Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited as per Law passed by the Parliament. Thereafter 
on the petition filed by the workmen and after hearing the 
parties concerned, including Bharat Coking Coal Limited 
the Bharat Coking Coal Limited were added as a party in 
the present proceeding as per Order No. 23 dated 23-3-72. 

1 may mention here that subsequently by an Act of the 
Parliament the colliery in question was nationalised and it 
vested in the Central Government and thereafter it vested in 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited under the provisions of the 
said Act. The Bharat Coking Coal Limited filed their written 
statement on 24-4-72. 

3. The case made out in the written statement of the 
outgoing employer, namely M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limited, is that me concerned wortoan Shri Rabi Lochan 
Ghosh was working as an Electrician in the colliery in question 
at the relevant time. There was theft of electric cable^from 
the colliery and in that connection Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh 
was arrested by the Police. In view of this the management 
lost ail confidence in him and his services were terminated 
by management’s letter dated 28-9-68 with effect from 1-10-68 
and he was offered one month’s wages in lieu ot notice. The 
action of the management in terminating the services of Shri 
Rabi Lochan Ghosh is allcjjed to be bona tide and it is 
submitted that the workman is not entitled to any relief. The 
management has also taken a formal plea to the effect that 
the present reference having arisen out of an individual dispute 
and the same not being taken up by substantial number of 
workmen or their union, it is outside the scope of the 
Industrial Disputes Act and the reference is liable to be sum¬ 
marily dismissed. The management states further that they 
arc not aware if Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was a member of 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha or of any union at all before 
the date of termination of bis services. 

4. According to the written statement filed by the workmen, 
Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh had been working in Kharkharee 
Colliery of M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited as an 
Electrician from July, 1964. Prior to the present action of 
the management terminating his services, the management had 
stopped Shri Ghosh from work with effect from 19-4-67 
illegally which was followed by reference No. 52 ul 1967 
of the Central Government Industrial Tiibiinal, Dhanbad. 
The Tribunal in that jclcrence by its award dated 10-2-68 
directed the maiiagcmcnl to reinstate Shri Rabi Jxichan Ghosh 
with continuity of service and pay full back vvages for the 
period of his idleness from 19-4-67 onwards. The manage¬ 
ment reinstated Shii Rabi Lochan Ghosh in the later part of 
March, 1968 but did not pay him the back wages lus directed 
by the Tribunal in its award. The management did not also 
make payment of monthly salary to Shri Rabi Lochan 
Ghosh since after reinstatement nor the management revised 
the scale of pay and salan' of Shri Ghosh in aecoi dance with 
the recommendations of Coal Wage Board as accepted by the 
Central Government, Sri Ghosh thereafter made complaint 
to the Central Government authority about the non-payment 
of the back wages, non-payment of the current wages and 
for the revision of his pay scale according to the rccommenda- 
lions of the Coal Wage Board. On account of all these 
demands the management began to threaten Shri Ghosh with 
dire consequences. The management in the meantime tried 
to entangle the workman in an alleged theft of electric cable 
from the colliery on 22-9-68 Vmt was unsuccessful in getting 
him implicated in any such theft case or in getting him 
arrested by the Police. The allegation of the management 
that the workman was arrested by the Police and was then 


released on bail is totally baseless, false and malaflde. The 
workman was never involved in any such case. It is submitted 
that the action of the management in terminating the services® 
of the workman by their letter dated 28-9-68 alleging loss of 
confidence for the baseless tmd unfounded reason is totally 
unjustified. It is said that the action of the management 
in terminating the services of the workman under tue cir¬ 
cumstances stated above amounts to victimization. Ihe sub¬ 
mission is that the pi'cscnt reference should accordmgly be 
answered in favour of Ihc workmen and the Tribunal will 
order for reinstatement of the workman with back wages. 

5. The Bharat Coking Coal Limited adopted the written 
statement filed by the outgoing employers and alleged further 
that tlicy arc in no way liable or responsible for any act 
of the past management of (he colliery prior to the taken over 
of the coal by the Central Government. 

6. On behalf of the workmen 3 documents, Exts. W-1 to 
W-3, have been exhibited on the admission of me employers. 
On behalf of the employers 6 documents, namqly, M-1 to 
M-6 have been exhibited on admission of the workmen. The 
workmen examined Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosu (WW-l) on 
their behalf and he is the only witness on bchaU of the 
workmen, The employers have not examined .my witness on 
their behalf. I shall discuss the oral and documentary evi¬ 
dence adduced by the parties in course of the award, if and 
when the nccc.ssily for the same will arise. 

7. On behalf Of the employers it is subtnUted that it is 
a case of termination of service shnpllcitor, which power the 
management exercised under Clause 14(a) of the Standing 
Orders of the Company. Ext. M-5 is the copy of the Stand/ 
log Order in question. Clause 14(a) runs as follows :— 

“For terminating the services of a permanent workman 
having less than one year of continuous service us 
defined in Section 2(eee) of the Industrial Disputes 
zket, 1947, a notice in writing or wages in lieu there¬ 
of at the scale indicated below shall be given by the 
employer ; 

(i) For monthly paid workmen—One month 

(ii) For weekly paid workmen—One week 

Provided that no such notice shall be required to be 
given when the services of a workman are teratinated 
on account of misconduct.” 

Relying upon the said provisions of the Standing Order the 
submission is that the management has terminated the service 
of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh ns the management lost confidence 
on him and in that case the action of the management must 
be held to be quite justified. The Learned Advocate of the 
employers relied upon the decision of their Lordships Of the 
Supreme Court in the case of Tata Oil Mills Company Limited 
and their workmen, reported in 1966(13) F, L. R. 63, in 
support of the above contention, especially when the standing 
Order authorises the management to terminate the services of 
a permanent workman after giving notice or notice pay. 

8. There is no dispute between the parties that the con¬ 
cerned workman was a pcimancnt employee in the CoUicry 
at the time when hi.s services were terminated. The seivices 
of the concerned woikman was terminated by the letter of the 
Manager of the Colliery to the workman dated 28-9-68 (vide 
letter Ext. W-3). By this letter his services were terminated 
with effect from 1-10-68. The evidence of the concerned work¬ 
man (WW-l) is that he worked in the conccined colliery i.e. 
Kharkharee Colliery, from July, 1964 as Electrician till his 
services were terminated, He states further that prior to the 
present action, his services were previously terminated on 
19-4-67 resulting in an inJristiial dispute which was icfcrrcd 
by the Central Government to the Central Government Indus¬ 
trial Tribunal No. 1, Dhanbad for adjudication, who by his 
award in refeienre No. 52 of 1967 directed reinstatement of 
the workman with full back wages. The workman further 
states that the management reinstated him on 27-3- 68 in 
nersuance of the award. He then continued to work as 
Electrician as before till his services were tciminatcd with 
effect from 1-10-68 by the letter of the management already 
said above. These facts were not challenged py the manage¬ 
ment in cross-examination and at the time of argnpiont the 
Learned Advocate of the employers Sri P, K. Bose accepted 
these facts us deposed by the workman to bo correct. It is 
thus clear that Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh worked as Electrician 
in Kharkharee Colliery from July, 1964 till 30-9-68. 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


TliE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5^ 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


1737 


9. The Standing Order quoted above confers power to the 
management to terminate the services of a permanent work¬ 
man having less than one ^ear of continuous service. But 
the present case is one relating to ’ a permanent workman 
who was in continuous service for about four years. In my 
opinion, therefore, Ciause 14(a) of the Standing Order relied 
upon by the management has no application to the piracnt 
case. The Learned Advocate of the employers coulu not 
point out any other clause in the Standing Order or any sepa¬ 
rate contract of service authorising the management in such 
a case to terminate the services of the workmen. In the 
case relied upon by the employers, already said above, the 
concerned workman was discharged from service under the 
terms of contract between the company and the workman 
specifically embodied in Rule 40(1) of the Service Rules of 
the Company. As pointed out above, in the present case 
there is no specific rule or Standing Order or any separate 
contract between the workman and the employers to terminate 
the services of a permanent workman who is in continuous ser¬ 
vice for more than one year. The management, theiefore, 
cannot have unrestricted power to terminate tuc services of 
such a workman. 


form of the order, the Industrial adjudication will 
examine the substance and would direct reinstate¬ 
ment in a fit case.” 

11. In view of the above decision of the Supreme Court 
it comes to this that even if the employers have got their 
right to terminate the services of the employee under the 
terms of contract or under the provisions of the Standing 
Order, which is absent in the present case, the Industrial Court 
will examine whether the alleged termination of service simpli- 
citor was simply a cloak of termination of service 
simplicitor or it amounts to victimization or unfair 
labour practice. The letter by which the services 
of the concerned workman was terminated reads as follows - 

Kharkharee Colliery, 

P. O. IKharkharee, S. E, R. 

(Dhanbad) 

Dated 28-9-1968. 

Ref. No.- 

To 


10. Assuming for the sake of argument that the manage¬ 
ment has the power to terminate the services of the w'orfcmen 
in a case of the present nature, the power cannot be unres¬ 
tricted. In this connection reference may be made to the 
observation of their Lordships of the Supreme Court in the 
ruling relied upon by (he employers, already utated above 
which is as follows;— 

"The true legal position about the Industrial Court’s 
jurisdiction and authority in dealing with cases of 
this kind is no longer in doubt. It is true in several 
cases, contracts of employment or provisions iu Stand¬ 
ing Order authorise an industrial employer to ter¬ 
minate the services of his employee after giving notice 
of one month or paying salary for one month in 
lieu of notice, and normally, an employer may, in 
a proper case, be entitled to exercise the same power. 
But, where an order of discharge passed by an emp¬ 
loyer gives rise to an industrial dispute, the form of 
the order by which the employee’s services are 
terminated, could not be decisive; industrial adju¬ 
dication would be entitled to exiunine the suostance 
of the matter and decide whether the termination 
is in fact discharge simplicitor or it amounts to 
dismissal which has put on the cloak of a discharge 
simplicitor. If the Industrial Court is satisfied that 
the order of discharge is punitive, that it is malafide, 
or that it amounts to victimization or unfair labour 
practice, it is competent to the Industrial Court to 
set aside the order and, iu a proper case direct 
reinstatement of the employee. In some c.ises, the 
termination of the employee's service may appear 
to the Industrial Court capricious and so unreason¬ 
ably severe that an inference may legitimately and 
reasonably be drawn that in terminating the services, 
the employer was not acting bonafide. The test has 
alw'ays to be whether the act is malafide, or appear# 
to be a colourable exercise of the power conferred 
on the employer either by the terms of .contract or 
by the. Standing Orders, then notwithstanding the 


Sri Rabi Lochan Ghosh, 

Electrician, 

Kharkharee Colliery. 

Dear Sir, 

"kou have been entangled in the theft of an electric cable 
stolen from the colliery for which you were arrested by the 
Police and has since been released on bail. 

In view of the above, the management has lost all 
confidence in you, 

The management, therefore, regrets to terminate your 
service with effect from 1-10-68. You will be paid one 
month wages in lieu of notice, which you are asked to collect 
together with other legal dues if any from the office on any 
working day and vacate the Company’s quarter occupied by 
you. 

Yoturs faithfully, 
Sd/- 
Manager, 

By this letter the manapment informs the workman that it 
lost all confidence in him inasmuch as he had been eij- 
tangled in the theft of an electric cable stolen from the 
colliery for which he was arrested by the Police and was 
released on bail. In this connection reference may be made 
to the case of the workmen that there was no such theft 
case nor the concerned workman was entangled in any such 
case, nor he was arrested by the police in any such case nor 
he had any occasion to apply for laid in any such case 
nor was he released on bail. This is the evidence of the 
concerned workman WW-1 before this Tribunal, No witness 
on behalf of the employers has been examined to say that 
the concerned workman Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was en¬ 
tangled in any such theft case or he was arrested by the 
Police and subsequently was released on bail in any such 
case. No documentary evidence has also been filed by the 
management in proof of the same. It must accordingly be 
held that Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was not entangled in any 
such case of theft of electric cable from the colliery and ho 
was not arrested by the Police nor was he released on bail in 
any such case. Therefore, the very basis of the loss of con¬ 
fidence of thp management upon Sri Rabi Lochan Ghosh, as 
stated by the management in their letter Ext. W-3, falls 
through. Thus the alleged loss of confidence on the work¬ 
man was baseless and without any reason. At the time of 
argument the Learned Advocate of the employers has pointed 
out to me the statement of the workman (3\TV-1) in cross- 
examination that whUe he was working in Kharkharee colliery 



1738 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, lOTS/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


he used to attend to private work and this is the ground 
for loss of confidence of the management on the workman. 
No such case has been made out by the management in 
their written statement. Apart from it, the specific statement 
of the workman in his evidence in cross-examination is that 
he used to do the private work during off hours on contract 
basis under one Mr. Senapati, the Consulting Engineer of 
Kharkharcc coliiery, with the permission of the Manager of 
the colliery. There is no denial to this statement of the 
workman. In that view of the matter the question of loss 
of confidence of the management on the workman on the 
ground urged by the Learned Advocate of the employers 
does not arise at all, specially when he was doing tlie work 
with the permission of the Manager of the colliery. 

12. 1 like to discuss at this place the case of victimization 
made out by the workmen. I have already referred to above 
the evidence of the workman that his services were previous¬ 
ly terminated by the management on 19-4-67 in consequence 
of which an industrial dispute was raised and a reference 
was made to the Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal No. 1, 
Dhanbad who as per award in reference No. 52 of 1967 
found the action of the management in terminating the 
services of the workman unjustified and ordered for his 
reinstatement with full back wages. The management there¬ 
after reinstated the workman in service on 27-3-68. These 
facts were not disputed on behalf of the employers at the 
time of hearing, rather the facts were accepted by the 
Learned Advocate of the employers at the time of argument. 
The evidence of the workman is that he was not paid the 
back wages as per award of the Tribunal nor the manage¬ 
ment pfud to him the current wages from March to Jiily, 
1968 after he was reinstated as per Tribunal’s award. There¬ 
after, it appears, the concerned workman wrote to the 
Director of Bharat Mining Corporation l imited, Kharkharee 
Colliery, as per his letter dated 27-8-68 (Ext. W-1) making 
a grievance to him that he was not paid back wages and his 
monthly salaries for the months of March, April, May, June 
& July, 1968 besides bonus etc., and requesting to arrange 
to make payment of the same at an early date. The 
management did not comply with the said prayer of the 
workman. The evidence of the workman is that on 25-9-68 
he was stopped from work and the documentary evidence 
on record shows that he was stopped from work by Electri¬ 
cal Supervisor and against that order the workman made a 
grievance before the Director of the Company (vide letter 
Ext. W-2). Thereafter the workman received the letter 
Ext. W-3 from the management saying that his services 
were terminated with effect from 1-10-68, The fact that 
the back wages and the current wages of the workman from 
the date of his reinstatement on the basis of the award of 
the Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal No, 1, Dhanbad in 
reference No. 52 of 1967, referred to above, were due to the 
workman before his soi vices were terminated is not denied. 
There is no reason whatsoever as to why the back wages as 
pet award were not paid so long and why the workman was 
not paid his salary for the period after his reinstatement. 
The management relics upon their letters Exts. M-2, M-3 & 
M-4 in support of their contention that they were all along 
ready to pay the dues but it was the workman who was 
not taking the amount. The above letters are dated 
18-24-10-68, 27-10-68 & 1-11-68 respectively and were issued 
long after the services of the workman were terminated and 
also long after the demand of the same was made by the 
workman by his letter dated 27-8-68 said above. There is 
nothing to show what was the reason of the management 
for not making the payment of back wages and current 
wages prior'to the termination of the services of the work¬ 
man. On behalf of the workmen it is submitted that since 
the concerned workman made a demand of the back wages 
as per order of the Tribunal, said above, and also current 
wages besides bonus etc,, the management terminated the 
services of the concerned workman and it is clearly an act 
of unfair labour piacticc and victimization of Shri Rabi 
Lochan Ghosh by the management. The basis of the 
management for termination of the services of the concerned 
workman as per letter W-3 being incorrect and there being 
no other basis for termination of his services, I accept, in 
view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the reason 
given by the workmuii for terminating his services and I 
hold that the action of the management in terminating the 
services of the workman was malafide and amounts to un¬ 
fair labour piactice and the services were terminated to vic¬ 
timize the workman. Tile order of the management termi¬ 
nating the services of Shii Rabi Lochan Ghosh, Electrician 
must, therefore, be set aside. 


13. On behalf of the management a formal plea has been 
taken to the effect that the reference made is not an indus¬ 
trial dispute in as much as the cause of the concerned work¬ 
man was not taken up by any nnion of which Shri Rabi 
Lochan Ghosh was a member and as such the reference must 
be dismissed. It appears that the dispute in question was 
sponsored by Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha in the conciliation 
proceeding before Asst. Labour Commissioner (Central) and 
the said union represented the workman in the present pro¬ 
ceeding. During the conciliation proceeding tssfore Asstt. 
Labour Commissioner it was not challenged by the manage¬ 
ment that the concerned workman was not a member of 
Bihar Koyla Mazdoor Sabha. No evidence also has been 
adduced before the Tribunal by the management that the 
workman Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was not a member of 
the said union. On the other hand, the evidence of the 
workmen before this Tribunal is to the effect that he was a 
member of the said union. The management has not adduced 
any evidence to the effect that the workmen of Kharkharee 
colliery are not the members of Bihar Koyla Mazdoor 
Sabha. In view of the facts and circumstances on record, 
I overrule the objection of the management that the present 
dispute is not van industrial dispute. 


14. In view of the findings recorded above my answer to 
the reference is that the action of the management of 
Kharkharee colliery of M/s. Bharat Mining Coiporatlon Ltd., 
P. O. Kharkharee, Dist. Dhanbad terminating the services of 
Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh Electrician with effect from 1st 
October, 1968 was not justified. The order of the manage¬ 
ment in this regard is accordingly set aside. The question 
that now arises for consideration is what relief the concerned 
workman is entitled to as a result of the setting aside of the 
said order of the management. 1 find that the concerned 
workman is entitled to be reinstated in the same post which 
he was holding at the time his services were terminated and 
he will get his back wages from 1-10-68 till the date of his 
rein.statement with continuity of service and other benefits that 
will accrue to him during the said period. The concerned 
workman will report for duty within a month from the 
date the award becomes enforceable, failing which the 
management will not be bound to reinstate him but the 
management’s liability to pay back wages tUl the expiry of 
one month from the date when this award will oecome 
eifforceable will remain. X like to mention here that from 
the evidence of the workman (WW-1) it appears that he 
had filed an application under Section 33(c)(2) of the 
Industrial Disputes Act before the I-abour Court, Dhanbad 
for realisation of the back wages as per award in reference 
No. 52 of 1967, aheady slated above, and also current wages 
and the matter was settled by compromise. 


15. The colliery in question belonged to M/s. Bharat 
Mining Corporation Limited and during the pendency of the 
present proceeding the management of the colliery vested in 
the Central Government and then in Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited under the provisions of Coking Coal Mines (Emer¬ 
gency Provisions) Act, 1971 which came into force on 
16-10-71. By the provisions of this Act the Bharat Coking 
Coal Limited became the Custodian of the colliery on behalf 
of M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation Limited who continued 
to be the owner of the colliery. Subsequently by Central 
Act No. 36 of 1972, Coking Coal Mines Nationalisation Act, 
1972, the colliery vested absolutely in Ihc Central Govern¬ 
ment free from all incum-branccs with effect from 1-5-72 
and by the provisions of the said ct it vested absolutely in 
Bharat Coking Coal Limited since that day .subject to the 
control by the Central Goverimicnt, Thus M/s. Bharat Min¬ 
ing Corporation Limited ceased to have any right what¬ 
soever in the colliery with effect from 1-5-72 and as such 
the said company is no longer in a position to reinstate the 
concerned workman in the colliery in question. The rein- 
slateinenl, if any, has to be made by Bharat Coking Coal 
Limited which is now incharge of the colliery in question. 
On behalf of Bharat Coking Coal Idmited it is submitted 
that according to the provisions of Section 9(1) of the said 
Nationalisation Act the Bharat Coking Coal Limited shall 
not be made liable for the acts and ommissions of the pre¬ 
vious management i.c. M/s. Bhai'at Mining Corporation 
l-imiled. In my opinion the said provisions in the Act has 
refeicnce to pecuniary liability prior to the appointed date 
i.e. 1-5-72 and it has nothing to do with the question of 
reinstatement of a workman whose services have been wrong¬ 
fully terminated. This question, in my opinion, is covered 



1739 


Sec. 3(ii)J THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


by the provisionfi of Section 17(1) of Act No. 36 of 1972 
which luns as follows :— 

“17. (1) Every person who is a workman within the 
meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and 
has been, immediately before the appointed day, in 
the employment of a coking coal mine or coke 
oven plant shall become on and from the appointed 
day, an employee of the Central Government, or, 
as the case may be, of the Government company 
in which the right, title and interest of such mine 
or plant have vested under this Act, and shall hold 
office or service in the coking coal mine or coke 
oven plant, as the case may be, oit the same terms 
and conditions and with the same rights to pension, 
gratmty and other matters as would have been 
admissible to him if the rights in relation to such 
coking coal mine or coke oven plant had not been 
transferred to, and vested in, the Central Govern¬ 
ment or Government Company, as the case may be, 
and continue to do so unless and until his employ¬ 
ment in such coking coal mine or coke oven plant 
is duly terminated or until his remuneration, terms 
and conditions of employment are duly altered, by 
the Central Government or the Government Com¬ 
pany.” 


16. In view of my finding that the order of termination 
of the services of Shri Rabi Lochan Ghosh was illegal and 
unjustified, he continued to be the workman in the employ¬ 
ment of file colliery in question and he was in the employ¬ 
ment in that colliery on and from the appointed date 
l.e. 1-5-72 as a workman of Bharat Coking Coal Limited. 
In that view of the matter it is Bharat Coking Coal Limited 
who inust comply with the direction of this Tribunal regard¬ 
ing reinstatement of the said workman in the colliery, as 
stated above. So far as the pecuniary liability under the 
present award is concerned. M/s. Bharat Mining Corporation 
Limtted will be liable till 30-4-72 and thereafter from 1-5-72 
it will be Ihc liabilily of Bharat Coking Coal Limited. 

17. This is my award. I.et the award be submitted to 
the Central Government under Section 15 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947. 

[No. 2/54/69-T.R 111 
B. S. TRIPATHI, Presiding Officer. 

S.O. 1284. —In pursuance of section 17 of the Indust¬ 
rial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Govern¬ 
ment hereby publishes the following award of the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Jaoalpur in the industrial 
dispute between the employers in relation to the Bank of 
Rajasthan Limited and their workmen, which was received 
by the Central Government on the 17th April, 197^. 

CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL- 
CUM-l.ABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Jabalpur, the 30th March. 197.3 

Present: 

Mr. Justice S. N, Katju—Presiding Officer. 

Case No. CGIT/LCfR) (19)/72 
Notification No. L-12012/4/72-LR. Ill dated 28-2-1972 

Parties: 

Employers in relation to the Bank of Rajasthan Limited, 
Indore, and their workmen, represented through the 
General Secretary, M. P. Bank Karmehari Sangh, 30, 
Bakshi Gali Indore, (M.P.). 

Appearances: 

For employers—Shri P. S. Nair, Advocate Jabalpur. 

For workmen—Shii C. L. Bhar.idwaj. 

District: Indore (M.P.) 


AWARD 

I'his is a reference under Sec. 10(1) (d) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act (hereinaller called the Act). 

The qncilion referied hi the Tribunal for Its consideration 
is:— 


“Whether the action of the management of the Bank of 
Rajasthan Limited, Indore, in terminating the ser¬ 
vices of Shri Naresh Kumar Shukla, Peon, with 
effect from the 19th August, 1971, was justified? 
If nol, to what relief is he entitled?’ 

The comiictency of the reference was challenged by the 
Bank and the following issue in addition to the issue as set 
out in the schedule to the reference was framed by me:— 

“Whether the reference is proper and valid in law and 
is maintainable?’’ 

It is alleged on behalf of the workman, Naresh Kumar 
Shukla that he was working in the Bank of Rajasthan Limi¬ 
ted, Indore (hereinafter called the Bank) from the year 1968 
in the permanent vacancy of one Sri Ramakant whose ser¬ 
vices had been terminated earlier by the Bank. It was 
stated that on account of Naresh Kumar ,Shukla’s satis¬ 
factory temporary services and in view of para 20—12 of the 
First Hiparttte Sctllcmcnt dated 19th October, 1966, he being 
the senior most Peon was appointed as a Probationer Peon- 
cOTu-l'uri'ash on 11-6-1971 in the above mentioned vacancy 
but on 19-8-1971 his services were illegally terminated by 
the management to accommodate another person. The 
workman made representations to the Bank for the redress 
of his grievance tor wrongful termination of his services. 
Tlicrcaftcr he referred the dispute to the Assistant Labour 
Commissioner (Central) Bhopai. The Bank in defending 
its position contended, inter alia, that Naresh Kumar Shukla 
had worked from time to time in temporary leave vacancies 
only and that had not been taken as a probationer with effect 
from 1I-6-I97I us was alleged by him. It was further 
slated that since that he was given the post of temporary 
peon with effect from 11-6-1971 for 69 days his temporary 
appointment came to an end by efflux of time. The Bank 
denied that Shukla “on account of satisfactory work or 
seniority ” had been taken in the employment of the Bank 
as a probationer peon on 11-6-1971. It was urged on 
behalf of the Hank that Shukla had been given only a 
temporary appointment for 69 days which, at least, may be 
taken as a lempoiary appointment against a permanent 
vacancy for a period less than three months vide para 
20-8 of tile First Bi-partite Scttlcmcnl ”. The Bank further 
denied that Shukla’s termination “took place in order to 
accommodatte another person’’ by the Bank. The Assistant 
Labour Commissioner (Central) took up the dispute in con¬ 
ciliation proceedings which ended in failure. The dispute 
was thereafter referred to this Tribunal for adjudication. 

The dispute raised the question whether the Bank was 
justified in terminating the services of the workman. Under 
these circumstances it gave raise to a above dispute which 
was rightly referred to this Tribunal by the Central Gov¬ 
ernment. The reference, Iherefoje to this Tribunal is main¬ 
tainable. 

It is not necessary for me to go further into the matter 
because the parties have resolved the dispute between them 
and have arrived at a settlement which is propciiy signed by 
the workman and his representative as also by the representa¬ 
tive of the management. 

Under the terms of the settlement it has been conceded 
that although the termination of the services of the work¬ 
man by the Bank was justified but the Bank has agreed to 
take the workman in its employment on the first available 
vacancy in the Bank in any of its bianch office in Madhya 
Pradesh except at Indore on six montht's probation. The 
terms of the settlement arc fair and reasonable and I make 
my award accordingly. The aforesaid deed of settlement 
between the parties shall form part of this award. 1 make 
no order as to costs. 


Industry : Bank 


S. N. KA'PIU, Presiding Officer. 



1740 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


[Part II— 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL-Ct/M-LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 
CAMP AT JAIPUR 
Case No. CGIT/LC(R)(19) of 1972 

Employers in relation to the management ot Bank of 
Rajasthan, Indore (M. P.) 

VERSUS 

Its workman, Narcsh Kumar Shukla. 

Without prejudice to the stand of the management that 
its action in terminating the services of Naresh Kumar 
Shukla the parties have agreed to settle the dispute 
mutually on the following terms:— 

1. The action of the management was justified in ter¬ 

minating the services of N. K. Shukla. 

2. Taking the sympathetic view of the whole matter the 

management W agreed to appoint Sri Naresh 
Kumar Shukla on the first available vacancy on 
probation for six months in Madhya Pradesh except 
at Indore. 

3. The Union and the workman assures the management 

that Sri Naresh Kumar Shukla will work honestly, 
sincerely and loyaly. 

4. The parties shall bear their own costs, 

5. The parties request the Hon’ble Tribunal to make 

an award in terms of the aforesaid settlement. 

C. L. BHARDWAJ, 

NARESH KUMAR SHUKLA, 

Workmen’s representatives. 

P. S. NAIR, 

Management's representative. 
[No. L. 12012/4/72-LR HI] 

Now Delhi, the 25th April, 1973 

S.O. 1285.—In pursuance of Section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Central Gov¬ 
ernment Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dis¬ 
pute between shri Chhotelal Contractor, Chandametta Col¬ 
liery of Messrs Pench Valley Coal Company Limited, Post 
Office Parasia, District Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh) and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Gov¬ 
ernment on the 18th April, 1973, 

CENTRAL government INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAI.- 
CUM-LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR 

Jabalpur, the 6th April, 1973 
Case Ref. No. CGIT/LC(R) (44) of 1972 

Present: 

Mr. Justice S. N. Katju—Presiding Officer. 
(Notification No. L/22012/33/3372-LRn dated 24-10-1972) 
Parties: 

Employers in relation to Shri Chhotelal Contractor, 
Chandametta Colliery of Messrs Pcnch Valley 
Coal Company Limited, Post Office Parasia, District 
Chhindwara (M.P.) and Shri Ramdayal, Super¬ 
visor, represented through the Satpura Koyala 
Khadan Maz.door Congress, P.O. Parasia, District 
Chhindrara (M.P.) 

Appearances: 

For employers—Shri P. S. Nair, Advocate. 

For workman—Shri Rom Narain Singh, General Sec¬ 
retary, Satpura Koyala Khadan Mazdoor Congress. 

Industry : Coal Company District: Chhmdwara (M.P.) 


AWARD 

This is a reference under Section 10(l)(d) of the In¬ 
dustrial Disputes Act. 

The question referred to this Tribunal is:— 

“Whether the action of Shri Chhotelal, Contractor, 
Chandametta Colliery of Messrs Pench Valley Coal 
Company Limited, Post Office, Parasia, District 
Chhindwara (Madhya Pradesh). In stopping from 
work Shri Ramdayal, Supervisor, with effect from 
the 7th February, 1972 is justified? If not, to what 
relief is the workman entitled?” 

It was alleged on behalf of the workman, Ramdayal 
Supervisor, that he was working as a Supervisor and he was 
supervising all the work of the Contractor, Chhotelal, since 
the last 10 years. He had been enjoying all the facilities 
which are given to the employees of the Chandametta Col¬ 
liery and he was a permanent employee of the said Chhote¬ 
lal, Contractor. It was further stated on behalf of the work¬ 
man that Chottelal, Contractor, stopped him Ulegally and 
without any notice from working for the aforesaid contrac¬ 
tor. All his representations to the management that ho should 
be taken back on his duties did not produce any result. 
Thereafter the Union on behalf of the workman asked the 
Contractor several times to take back on his duties but the 
Contractor refused to do so. The question was raised before 
the Assistant Labour Commissioner (Central) Chhindwara 
but the conciliation proceedings ended in failure. Thereafter 
the present reference was made to this Tribunal. 


The representative of the workman objected against the 
appearance of Shri P. S. Nair, Advocate, on behalf of the 
(Jolliery. Shri P. S. Nair in his reply has stated that he was 
not appearing on behalf of the Colliery but in his capacity 
as the Industrial Relations Secretary, Central India Coal 
Fields Mining Association and as an officer of the Associa¬ 
tion of employers connected with the industry in question 
he was entitled to appear in the present proceeding on behalf 
of the Colliery. No one appeared on behalf of the work¬ 
man on 20-2-1973 and 21-2-1973 when the case came up 
before this Tribunal. Shri Nair is present in Court today but 
neither the workman nor his representative is present be¬ 
fore the Tribunal today. I need not go into the question 
whether Shri P. S, Nair is competent to appear on behalf 
of the Colliery, There is nothing on the record to substan¬ 
tiate the allegations made on behalf of the workman and 
it is not possible for me to hold that the action of Chhote¬ 
lal, Contractor, in stopping Ramdayal, Supervisor, from his 
work with effect from 7-2-1972 was not justified. My award, 
therefore, is that Chhotelal Contractor of the Colliery of 
M/s. Penrh Valley Coal Company Limited, P.O. Parasia, 
District Chhindwara, was justified in stopping from work 
Ramdayal with effect from 7-2-1972 and I make my award 
accordingly. I make no order for costs. 

S, N. KATJU, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 22012/33/72-LRin 

CORRIGENDUM 
New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 

S.O. 1286.—^In the notification of the Government of 
India, in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Depart¬ 
ment of Lab. and Employment) No, S.O. 174, dt. the 6th Jan. 
1973, published at pages 247 and 248 of the Gazette of 
India, Part-H, Section 3, Sub-Section (ii), dated the 20th 
January, 1973, on page 247 in lines 6 and 7 for "the agent, 
South Bulliari Kendwadih Group of Collieries of Messrs. 
East Indian Coal Company Limited, Post Office Mohuda, 
District Dhanbad", read “The Bhatdee Colliery of Messrs. 
Bengal Bhatdee Coal Company Limited, Post Office Mohuda, 
District Dhanbad ” 

[No. L/2012/101/71-LRII] 
New Delhi, the 27th AprU, 1973 

S.O. 1287.—^In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Dis¬ 
putes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government hereby 
publishes the following award of the Central Government 



Sec. 3(ii) J lUE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1741 


Industrial Tiibunal No, 2, Bombay in the industrial dispute 
between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of 
India and their woiknien, which vvas received by the Cen¬ 
tral Ciovernment on the 23rd April, 1973, 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL NO. 2, BOMBAY 

Reference No. COIT-2y4 of 1972 

Employcis in relation to the Cential Bank of India. 


AND 


Their workmen 
Present: 

Shii N. K. Vani—Presiding Officer. 


Appeartuiccs; 

For the Employers.—Shri G. R. Sheikh, Asstt, Law Officer. 

For the Workmen—(i) Shri A. M. Puranik, Vice President. 

(ii) Shri S. P. Chaudhari, President. 

Industry : Banking. State : Maharashtra. 

Bombay, the 22nd March, 1973 
AWARD 

By order No. L. 12012/48/71-LR, III, dated 4-3-1972, 
the Central Government in the Ministry of Labour and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) in 
e,\ercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-clause 

(1) of Section 10 of the I.D, Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) re¬ 
ferred to this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute 
existing between the employers in relation to the Central 
Bank of India and their workmen in respect of the matter 
specified in the Schedule as mentioned below:— 


5. According to him;— 

(j) Shri B. K. Shrimali had applied for a post of a 
peon/Watchman in the Bank. He was called for 
interview and test. He was then given an appoint¬ 
ment order under order dated 29-4-1969, annexure 1 
to the written statement Ex. 1/W, as peon-cum- 
watchman at Dhulia Bianch. In order to circum¬ 
vent the provisions of Sastry and Desai Award the 
Bank issued appointment orders month by month 
and treated the permanent appointment as tem¬ 
porary to deprive all benefits applicable to con¬ 
firmed employees of the Bank, The appointments 
made by the Bank arc as Under-.-- 

Order dated Period 


29-4-1969 29-4-1969 to 28-5-1969—1 month. 

29-5-1969 29-5-1969 to 28-6-1969—1 month. 

28- 6-1969 29-6-1969 to 28-7-1969—1 month. 

29- 7-1969 29-7-1969 to 28-8-1969—1 month. 

28-8-1969 29-8-1969 to 29-9-1969—1 month. 


After five months continuous service in permanent 
vacancy the Sub-Agent served a termination order 
dated 20-9-1969 intorming him (hat under instruc¬ 
tions from the main office, his services would not 
be required from 29-9-1969. 

(ii) The Bank did not give required notice or notice 
pay as per provisions of Sastry and Desai Award 
while terminating the confirmed services of Shri 
Srimali. The termination order was malafied and 
in contiavention of the provisions of the Awards 
and Bipertito Settlement. The same was invalid 
and illesal. 

(iii) As per the cartificate issued by the Sub-Agent, 

Dhulia Branch on 29-9-1969, annexure 7 to the 
written statement Ex. 1/W, the work, conduct and 
attendance were found good and satisfactory. 

(iv) As per the Bank's recruitment Policy, Shri Shrimali 

was appointed after completion of all formalities 

i.e. test and interview and was selected for a 
permanent post in a permanent post in a per¬ 
manent vacancy. The order of temporary appoint¬ 
ment dated 29-4-1969 was in contravention of the 
provisions of the Bank Awards and Bipartite Settle¬ 
ment. 


SCHEDULE 


Whether the action of Ihe management of the Central 
Bank of India in terminating the services of Shri 
B, K. Shrimali, Peon-cum-Watchman at Dhulia 
Branch of the Bank was justified? If not, to 
what relief is he entitled?" 

2. The facts giving rise to this reference are as follows:— 

(i) Shri B. K. Shrimali was working as Peon-cum- 
Watchman in Dhulia Branch of the Central Bank 
of India from 29-4-1969. On 20-9-1969 the Sub- 
Agent gave him notice, annexure 6 to the written 
statement Ex, l/W informing him that under ins¬ 
tructions from the main office, his services would 
not be required from 29-9-1969. On account of 
this, the President of the Central Bank of India 
Staff Union raised industrial dispute with the 
Asstt. Labour Commissioner (C) Nagpur by his 
letter dated 10-3-1971 annexure B to the written 
statement Ex. 1/W. The Asslt. Labour Commis¬ 
sioner (C). h'agpiir tiled lo bring about co icilia- 
tion but in \ain. He therefore submitted his failure 
of conciHidion report to the Govenimenl, on 
31-5-1971, annexure 10 to written statement Ex. 1/W. 
After Ihc receipt of this report the Government of 
India refeircd this dispute to this Tribunal for 
adjudication, 

3. In pursuance of the notice issued to the parties for 
filing their written statements, both the parties appeared 
before me and filed their written statement. 

4. Shri S. P. Chaudhari, President, f cntral Bank of India 
Staff Union Nagpur has filed written statement Ex. 1/W 
on behalf of the workmen. 


(v) After terminating the services of Shri Shrimali the 

Bank recruited several employees in Namur group 
and also at Dhulia Branch to fill in the vacancy 
caused due to termination of Shri Shrimali. The 
Bank did not reply the representation dated 
6-2-1971 made b> Shri Shrimali for his appoint¬ 
ment in the permanent seiwiccs of the Bank. 

(vi) The Bank advertised the posts of peons, Chowki- 

dars, arnied-guards etc, on 22-1-1970 in ‘Nawa- 
Bharat’ daily, Ex. 11/W. The advertisement in 
this newspaper shows that there were several per¬ 
manent vacancies for which posts were adver¬ 
tised. 

(vii) As the termination of services of Shri Shrimali Is 
illegal he be reinstated in Bank’s service with effect 
from 29-9-1969. 

(viii) It is prayed that:— 

(1) Shri B, K. Shrimali be declared as confirmed em¬ 

ployee with effect from 29-4-1969 at Dhulia 
Branch. 

(2) The Bank of directed to pay and implement all 

benefits of confirmation to the workman ns per 
provisions of Bank Awards and Bipartite Settle¬ 
ment. 

(3) He be granted back wages for the period from 
29-9-1969 till the date of reinstatement. 

(4) The order of termination served by the Bank 

on 20-9-1969 be declared as illegal and null and 
void. 

(5) The Bank be directed to pay compensation for 

illegal termination of the services of the work¬ 
man. 


11 G of 1/73—7. 




1742 


[PART U~ 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15. 1895 


6. Asstt. Law Officer for the management of Central Bank 
of India has filed written statement at Ex. 2/E. 


9. The Bank has produced documents as mentioned 
below ;— 


7. According to him:— 

(i) Shri Shrimali was not entitled to be appointed in 
the Bank because he did not comply with the 
point of requisite educational qualifications laid 
down by the Bank. Shri Shrimali was very much 
above the required quallflcatlon for the post of 
Peon-cum-Chowkldar as was asked for vide Bank’s 
advertisement which appeared in Navbharat daily 
on 22-1-1970. In the said advertisement, it was 
made clear that for appointments as peons, chow- 
kldar, armed ^ards etc. the candidate applying 
to be appointed as such should have passed mini- 
made clear that for lyipointments as peon.s, chow- 
had appeared for S.S.C. Examination held by 
Maharashtra State Board of Secondary Education 
Nagpur Divisional Board in the month of March, 
1968 and had failed in the same. Recruitment Cir¬ 
cular of the Bank No. 4 of 1968 under the head- 
ing 'Mode of Selection’ prescribed a set standard 
of educational qualification for recruitment to sub- 
staff cadre, wherein it is said that. The maximum 
educational qualification for being considered for 
appointment to sub-staff cadre is upto Std. VII 
passed which should be at least 3 years below the 
qualification for matriculation,’ The Bank ob¬ 
viously could not infringe the provisions of Re¬ 
cruitment Policy framed by it and therefore could 
not accept candidates possessing higher qualifica¬ 
tion than that prescribed. 

(il) The Date of Birth of Shri Shrimali also could not 
bo ascertained and as such the management could 
not decide upon the date of birth of Shri Shrimali. 
As the applicant to sub-staff posts must be between 
18 to 25 years of age and as there was no corro¬ 
boration to the affidavit regarding the age filed 
by Shri Shrimali he could not be considered for 
employment in the Bank. 


(iii) The conduct of Shri Shrimali was not proper He 
spread all sorts of rumours against the staff at 
Dhullia Office saying that ho happened to be the 
then Chief Apent Shri J. J, Pinto’s man. He was 
arrogant in his dealing with the staff and officers. 
The Bank could not retain such an employee. 


(iv) Shri Shrimali worked at Dhulia from 29-4-1969 to 
20-9-1969 on month to month extension basis. 
His appointment was again,st temporary vacancy. 

terminated by order dated 
29-9-1969 served on him by the Sub-Agent, Dhulia. 


(v) It is not true that the Bank treated the permanent 
appointment as temporary one to deprive Shri 
Snnmali or all benefits of confirmation and to cir¬ 
cumvent the provisions of Sastry and Desai Awards 
In this regard. 


(vi) The Bank served the termination notice on Shri 

Shrimah. The termination notice was not malafide 
and m contravention of the Bank Awards and 
Bipartite Settlement. It was not illegal. 

(vii) Shri Shrimali was not selected for a permanent post 

in a permanent vacancy. 

(viii) Appointrnent in Sub-staff cadre was made at several 
Nappur Group, including Dhulia, after 
snri 6tirimali s services were termmated 


(ix) There was no question of conducting a departmen 
tai enquiry against Shri Shrimali before terrainatini 
his services because Shri Shrimali was nowher 
booked for any misconduct whereby an enquiT' 
wdll be necessary to impose any punishment o 
otherwise on him. 


(X) The mterpretations of the circulars and provisions 
of the Awards and Bipartite Settlement made by 

J correct. The workmen Is not 

entitled to any relief. 

Staff & Chaudhari President, Central Bank of India 

W 1 ? Nagpur has filed rejoinder at Ext. 4/W deny- 
Ex its written statement 


(i) Circular No. B.I.D./STAEE/6V<S. dated 10-1-1969, 

regarding Recruitment of Staff at Ex, 5/E. 

(ii) Circular No. PRS/71/C.O, 9, dated 4-2-1971, re¬ 

garding appointment of Staff at Ex, 6/E. 

(iii) Circular No. PRS/72/C.O./2, dated 7-1-1972, re¬ 

garding confirmation at Ex. 7/E. 

(iv) Details of clerks and sub staff working in Nagpur 

Division at Ex, 8/E. 

10. The Union has produced documents ns mentioned 
below: 

(i) Memo, dated 20-9-1969, regarding termination of 

services of Shri Shrimali, at Ex. 9/W. 

(ii) Service Certificate issued by the Sub-Agent to Shri 

Shrimali at Ex. 10/W. 

(iii) Advertisement in the Navbharat dated 22-1-1970, 
at Ex. 11/W. 

(iv) Details of temporary.^rmanent subordlnnte staff 

working at Nagpur Division, at Ex. 12/W. 

(v) Details of Temporary/permanent subordinate staff 

working between January, 1969 to June 1972 at 
Nagpur Division, Ex. 13/W. 

(vi) Details of Staff members working BhaiisahebnMar 

between January, 1969 to June 1972, Ex. 14/w. 

(vii) Statement of Temporary Permanent subordinate staff 

working at Ramdaspeth from January. 1969 to 
June 1972, Ex. 15/W. 

(viii) Statement of temporary/permanent subordinate 
staff members working at Ciotton Market Amravatl 
at Ex. 16/W. 

p “ 

IL It may be noted that neither the Bank nor the 
workman Shri Shrimali has come in the witnc.s.s box to give 
evidence. 


12. From the pleadings and documents on record the 
following points arise for decision in this reference. 

(i) Whether the action of the management of the Central 

Bank of India in terminating the services of Shri 
B. K. Shrimali, Peon-cum-Watchman at Dhulia 
Branch of the Bank was justified? 

(ii) To what relief is entitled? 

(iii) What order? 

13. My finding.s are ns follows:— 

(i) No. 

(ii) Entitled to reinstatement. 

(iii) As per order. 


REASON.*! 


Point No. 1 

14. The workman Shri Shrimali was appointed to work 
as a pcon-cum-Watchman on temporary basis for one month 
at Dhulia Branch of the Central Bank of India, by the Sub- 
Agent under Memo, dated 29-4-1969- This Memo, is as 
follows:— 

“Shri Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali, Dhulia. 

“With reference to his application 17-4-1969 to Nagpur 
Shri Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali is hereby inform¬ 
ed that he has been taken up to work as peon-cum- 
Watchman on temporary basis for one month only 
from to-day on a basic salary of Rs. 86 and dear¬ 
ness allowance of Rs. 96.32. The above dearness 
allowance is subject to revision in accordance with 
rise and fall in cost of living index. 

Notwithstanding anything contained in this letter his 
services are liable to be terminated at the solo 
discretion of the Bank without assigning any reason 
or reasons. 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


1743 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


If Shi'i Bansilal Kishanlal Shrimali is agreeable to accept 
the appointment on the above terms and condi¬ 
tions, ne should reliirn the duplicate copy of this 
Memo, duly signed by him and report for duties 
immediately. 

Sd/- 

Sub-Agent. 

I accept. 

B, K. Shrimali.’' 

15. Shfi Shrimali accepted the terms of appointment men¬ 
tioned in the Memo, icferred to above and joined the services 
of the Rank at Dhulia Branch, as peon-enm-watchman. 
Thereafter his services were extended from time to tirne for 
a period of one month each time as mentioned in the 
Memos, dated 29-4-1969, 29-6-1969, 29-7-1969 and 28-8-1969, 
produced on record as annexurc Nos. 2, 3, 4 and 5 res¬ 
pectively to the written statement Ex. 1 /W. 

16. It is clear from the above mentioned facts that Shri 
Shrimali was in continuous services of the bank as Peon- 
cnm-Watchman at Dhulia Branch from 29-4-1969 till 
29-9-1969 i.e. for a period of five months. 


17. On 20-9-1969 the Sub-Agent issued a Memo, inform- 
inj Shri Shrimali that under instructions from the main 
office his services would not be required with effect from 
29-9-1969, annexure 6 to the written statement Ex. 1/W. 
By this memo, the services of Shri Shrimali from Dhulia 
Branch of the Central Bunk were terminated with effect from 
29-9-1969. 


18. Shri Sheikh representative for the Bank contends that 
the conduct of Shri Shrimali as peon-.’am-watchman at 
Dhulia during the period of his service was not proper, that 
Shrimali was spreading remours amongst the staff that he 
was the man of the then Chief Agent, and that he was 
arrogant in his dealings with the staff and officers. 

19. The Bank has taken this contention in the written 
statement Ex, 2/E, but it has not adduced any evidence 
to show that the conduct of Shri Shrimali was not proper, 
that he was spreading remours and that his behaviour was 
anogant during the tenure of his service at Dhulia Branch. 
No colleague of Shri Shrimali serving in Dhulia Branch has 
been examined to speak about his conduct. There is no 
written warning regarding the conduct of Shri Shiimali on 
record before me. The burden is on the bank to show that 
Shri Shrimali’s conduct was not proper during the tenuic 
of his service but it has clearly fulled to dischniged the same. 


20. Shri Shiimali has not come in the witness box but 
there is a certificate dated 29-9-1969 bearing the signature of 
the Sub-Agent, produced at Ex. 10/W. This certificate is 
as follows:-— 

“This is to certify that Shii Bansilal Kishanial Shrimali 
was working in this office as Peon-eimi-Chowkidar 
from 29-4-1969 lo 28-9-1969 (both duy inclusive). 
During this period his conduct was found to be 
good and he was found to be regular in attendance 
and work,” 


21. It is clear from the above mentioned certificate that 
during the peiiod of Shri Shrimali’s tenure in Dhulia as 
Peon-enm-ChowKidar has conduct was found to be good 
and he was found to be regular lii attendance and work. 

22. It is not the case of the Bank that the Sub-Agent of 
the Dhulia Branch has not issued the certificate Ex. 10/W, 
and that it is aforged document produced by the employee. 
What the Bank contends that the local agents arc not au¬ 
thorised to issue good conduct certificate and that only the 
C bief Agent can issue such certificates, Apart from the 
fads whether the Sub-Agent is authoi ised to issue good 
conduct certificate or not there can be no doubt that this 
certificate Ex. 10/W speaks about the conduct and regular 
attendance of Shn Shrimali during his tenure at Dhulia 
Branch as Peon-ewn-Chowkidar. In my opinion (liis certi¬ 
ficate is good piece of evidence which clearly proves that 
conduct of Shii Shrimali was good and that ho was very 


legulur in attendance and work and that the contention raised 
by the Bank that his conduct was not proper cannot be 
accepted. Hence this could not be the ground for not 
continuing Shri Shrimali in service from 29-9-1969. 

23. Shri Sheikh contends that Shri Shrimali had appeared 
for S.S.C. Examination hold by Maharashtra State Board 
of Secondaiy Education, Nagpur Divisional Board, that he 
failed in that examination and that inasmuch as he was having 
more qualification than prescribed for sub-staff, he could 
not be continued in service. This contention has been 
raised in the written statement Ex. 2/E. 

24. The Bank has produced circular No. 4 of 1968, re¬ 
garding Recruitment of staff alongwith Ex. 6/E, Para 
7(6)B subordinate Staff relating to mode of selection pres¬ 
cribes qualification. It is as follows:— 

“(6) Mode of Selection. 

(1) Qualifications; Knowledge of the regional lan¬ 
guage, both reading and writing except for Armed 
Guards and Sweepers. Matriculates will not be con¬ 
sidered for appointment to Sub-Staff Cadre. The 
maximum educational qualification for being con¬ 
sidered for appointment will be upto 7th Class 
Pass, which should at least be 3 years below the 
qualifications for Matriculation and he should have 
Studied English for at least 2 years.” 

25. It is clear from the above provision that the maxi¬ 
mum educational qualification for being considered for 
appointment to sub-staff will be upto 7th Class pass, which 
should be at least 3 years below the ^aliflcations for mat¬ 
riculation and he should have studied English for at least 2 
years. This provision supports the contention of the Bank 
but in my opinion this contention cannot be given any 
weight. 

26. The Bank admits in its written statement Ex. 2/E 
Para. 3 that Shri Shimali had applied for the post of Peon- 
cttw-Watchman in the Bank and that he was called for the 
test and interview. 

27. It is only after the test and interview on account of 
Shrimali’s application, he was appointed as Peon-c«m-watch- 
man at Dhulia and continued there for a period of five 
months. It can be inferred from this that the Bank had 
condoned the over-qualification of Shri Shrimali while ap¬ 
pointing him as Peon-c«m-Watchman. Once it has con¬ 
doned this over-qualification it cannot now say that he was 
not entitled to continue in service because of the over-qualifi¬ 
cation. 

28. The Union has produced details of temporary/per¬ 
manent subordinate staff at Ex. 12/W to 16/W. It appears 
from these documents that there are certain sub-staff work¬ 
ing in the Bank who are also non-matriculates. This fact 
shows that the Bank condoned the over-qualification. 

29. Shri Sheikh contends that Shri Shrimali has not pro¬ 
duced documentary evidence to show that he was oet- 
ween 18 to 25 years of age and that as there was no con¬ 
vincing evidence regarding the age required for appoint¬ 
ment, he should not be continued in service. This conten¬ 
tion cannot be also accepted. 

30. Shri Shrimali had filed affidavit in support of his age 
before the Bank, The management relied upon the affidavit 
and appointed him as Pcon-c«m-Chowkidar. Once the Bank 
has accepted the age, it could not ffiscontinue him frbm 
service on the ground that Shri Shrimali did not produce 
documentary evidence to show that he was between 10 to 
25 age at the time of his appointment. If there would have 
been any complaint and any evidence before the Bank that 
he was overage and that he had doligerately given wrong 
age for getting appointment, the matter would have been 
different and the Bank would have insisted for documentary 
evidence. In view of the fact that the Bank appointed Shri 
.Shrimali and continued him for five months, it could not 
discontinued his sei^vice on the ground that Shri Shrimali 
had not produced any evidence in support of his affidavit 
regarding age. The appointment order nowhere mentioned 
that Shn .Shiimali would not be liable to continue in service 
unless he would produce documentary evidence in support 



1744 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 


of his affidavit in respect of age. In the absence of such 
conditions, the Bank cannot now say that Shri Shrimali can¬ 
not continue in service for want of documentaiy evidence 
regarding his age. 

31. Shri Puranik for the Union contends that the notice 
of termination of service dated 20-9-1969, referred to above 
is not valid and legal because it was only for 8 days and 
not for 14 days as required under para. 322 of the Sastry 
Award. Section IV in the Sastry Award relates to pro¬ 
cedure for termination of employment. It is as follows;— 

“522. We now proceed to the subject of termination of 

employment. We give the following directions;-— 

(1) In cases not involving disciplinary action for mis¬ 

conduct and subject to clause (6) below, the em¬ 
ployment of a permanent employee may be ter¬ 
minated by three months’ notice or on payment of 
three months’ pay and allowances in lieu of itotice. 
The services of a probationer may be terminated 
by one month's notice or on payment of a month's 
pay and allowances in lieu of notice. 

(2) A pomanent employee desirous of leaving the ser¬ 

vice of the Bank shall give one month’s notice in 
writing to the Manager. A probationer desirous 
of leaving service shall give 14 days’ notice in 
writing to the manager, A permanent employee 
or a pjobationcr shall, when he leaves service, 
bo given an order of relief signed by the manager. 

(3) If any permanent employee leaves the service of 

the fia^ without giving notice, he shall be liable 
to pay the Bank one month’s pay and allowances. A 
probiutoner, *f he leaves service without giving 
notice, shah nc liable lor 14 days pay and 
allowances. 

(4) The services of any employee other than a per¬ 

manent employee or probationer may be termina¬ 
ted, and he may r-ave service, after 14 days notice. 
If such an employee leaves service without giving 
such notice he shall be liable for a weak’s pay 
(including all allowances)’’, 

32. Para, 522(4) referred to above lays down that services 
of any employee other than a permanent employee or proba¬ 
tioner may be terminated after serving 14 days notice. 
There can be therefore no doubt that for terminating the 
services of temporary employee 14 days notice has to be 
given as per ihe piovisions ol Sastry Award. In the present 
case the Bank has failed to give 14 days notice and con¬ 
travened the provisions of para. 522(4) of the Sastry Award. 
As the Bank has failed to give 14 days notice for termi¬ 
nating the services of Shri Shrimali, the termination of ser¬ 
vices of Shri ShrimaU by notice dated 20-9-1969 is illegal 
and improper. 

33. Shri Sheikh for the Bank contends that Shri Shri- 
mali’s employment was contractual one, that it was a term 
of contract that his services would be liable for termination 
at the sole discretion of the Bank without assigning any 
reasons, and that on account of this there is no question of 
giving any notice to Shri Shrimali. As Shri Shrimali had 
accepted the terms of contract he cannot claim anything 
beyond those terms. What Shri Sheikh wants to say is 
that the termination of services of Shri Shrimali by 8 days 
notice is quite valid, legal and proper. I am unable to 
accept this contention 

34. In view of the specific provisions in the Sastry Award 
referred to above, it was incumbent on the Bank to give 
14 days notice to Shri Shrimali before terminating his 
senflces. As it failed to do so it cannot be said that ter¬ 
mination of services of Shri Shrimali on the basis of notice 
of termination in question was proper and legal. 

35. Shri Puranik for the workman contends that the Bank 
has followed unfair labour practice in giving temporary 
appointment to Shri Shrimali in permanent vacancy at 
Dhulia branch and in continuing him more than 3 months 
on temporary basis and in terminating his services at the 
end of five months, with a view to deprive him of getting the 
benefits of permanency, fn support of this contention he 
relies on various provisions of the Bi-partiie Settlement viz. 
Paras. 20.7 to 20.1] and the settlement dated 23-12-1971, 
between the Bank and the All India Central Bank Em¬ 
ployees Federation. 


1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II- 


36. Para. 20.8 of the Bi-partite Settlement is as follows:— 

“A temporary workman may also be appointed to fill 
a permanent vacancy provided that such temporary 
appointment shall not exceed a period of three 
months during which the bank shall make arrange¬ 
ments for filling up the vacancy permanently. If 
such a temporary workman is eventually selected 
for filling up the vacancy, the period of such 
temporary employment will be taken into account 
as part of his probationary period,” 

37. It is not the case of the Bank that Shri Shrimali was 
appointed for a limited period for work which was of an 
essentially temporary nature or he was employed tempo¬ 
rarily as an additional workman in connection with a 
temporary increase in work of a permanent nature 
or he was appointed in temporary vancancy caused by the 
absence of a permanent workman. Hence he could not be 
a temporary employee within the meaning of para. 20.8 

38. Shri Shrimali was appointed as temporary poon-cw^n- 
chowkidar at Dhulia Branch and his services were extended 
from month Vo month basis. He continued thcr for a period 
of five months i.e. from 29-4-1969 to 28-9-1969. 

39. As the post of peon-CH;ii-chowUdar is a permanent 
and as Shri Shrimali was continued in this post on tempo¬ 
rary basis for more than three months, it amounts to vio¬ 
lation of the piovisions of the Bipartite Settlement para. 
20 , 8 . 

40. It also appears that the Bank has violated the prin¬ 
ciples embodied in the Bipartite Settlement viz. Paras. 20.7 
to 20.11. 


41. Term 1 of the Settlement dated 23-12-1971, between 
the Central Bank of India and the All India Central Bank 
Employees Federation shows that employees who have 
been ^pointed in the Bank’s service origmally on or after 
1-7-196^6, and were given breaks in the service not exceed¬ 
ing three days excluding Sundays and Bank holidays, will 
be considered as having been confirmed on the permanent 
staff after six months from the date of their original ap¬ 
pointment, and that such members of clerical and simordinato 
staff will also be entitled to contribute towards Provident 
Fund from the date of their confirmation as per this agree¬ 
ment and the due dates of their graded increments will be 
adjusted accordingly. 

42. It is clear that as per term 1 of the agreement, Shri 
Shrimali would have been entitled to confirmation after 
completion of six months service but his services were ter¬ 
minated after completion of five months service. At the 
time of terminating his services by notice dated 20-9-1969, 
Ex. 9/W, the Bant has not given any reason. It is not 
the case of the Bank that his services wer terminated because 
the post in which he was working ceased to continue. If 
the post in which be was working as iicon-caiJi-chowkid-ar 
at Dhulia continued to exist, there uas no reason for the 
Bank to discontinue Shri Shrimali’s services all of a sudden 
under the instruction from the Main Office. In the absence 
of those instructions from the Head Office on record, it is 
not possible to find out as to what those instructions were. 
Hence the only infeience that can be drawn from the Bank’s 
action in terminating the services of Shri Shrimali after 
five months sci vice at Dhulia Branch without assigning any 
specific reason is that it wanted to deprive him of getting 
the benefits of confirmation. 

43. As the various branches of the Bank were taking 

lip temporary hands to fill up the posts which are of per- 
n:\cncnt_ nature ^ and continuing them on temporary basis in- 
discriiiiinulcly in violation and continuing them on tempo¬ 
rary basis indiscriminately in violation of provisions of Bi¬ 
partite Settlement para. 20,8, the head office had issued 
directed to its branches vide Fix. 7/E. It is as follows:_ 

“We send herewith a copy of the settlement arrived at 
between the Management and the All India Central 
Bank Employees’ Federation for the information 
of Branches. 

The Management and the A.I.C'.B.E.F. had to arrive 
•'ll this settlement for reasons mentioned in the 
short racital of the case in the settlement. Appoint¬ 
ments of hands for clerical and subordinate cadre 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1S95 


1745 


were being made to fill up permanent vacancies 
by controlling Branches indiscrimtnately and w'ith- 
oiit following any piinciplc oi bearing _ u) mind 
the provisions of para. 20.8 of the Bipartite Settle¬ 
ment and then temporary sersices weie bcmp 
renewed again and again after giving a break of 
2 to 3 days. These temporary hands who were 
being kept on temporary basis for months tc^e- 
ther in the same vacancy have claimed that they 
should be treated as taken up on probation from 
the date of their initial appointment, and the pre¬ 
sent settlement has been ariived at to resolve this 
issue. To avoid such situation arising in future 
controlling branches arc advised that temporary 
appointments should not normally be made except 
when the vacancy is of a temporary nature or m 
every emergent cases for which also prior appro¬ 
val of the Persormel Department should be ob¬ 
tained. The services of these temporary hands 
should be termuiatcd on the expiry of the stipula¬ 
ted pciiods. Anyway no member should be allowed 
to continue as temporary hand for more than 3 
months. Agents of controlling branches will 
please bear this in mind for the future. 

According to the terms of this agreement, the following 
two categories of members who were initially taken 
on temporary basis will be tirated as taken up on 
probation from the original date of their appoint¬ 
ment on temporary basis and confirmed effective 
from the date of expiry of six months from the 
original date of appointment on temporary basU 

1. Employees taken up on temporary basis on and 
atter 1-7-191)6 and their temporal y services were 
continued giving breaks not exceeding three days. 

2. Employees who were taken up prior to 1-7-1966 
but not earlier lhan 1-1-1959 and whose tem- 

orary services were continued without any 
reak. 

It will be observed Irom the settlement that the Ail 
India Central Bank Employees’ Federation has 
agreed not to claim arrears of increment and othei 
benefits in regard to those members who will now 
be treated as confiimed in the Ho.nk's service on 
the expiry of six months from the date of their 
initial appointment as temporary hands. The AI 
India Central Bank Employees’ Federation will also 
not take up supersession of their cases for pro¬ 
motion to highei' cadres. Howevet their names 
will bo included in future seniority List which will 
be drawn by the Groups as on 1st March and 1st 
September of evciy year. 

Please let us have a list of the membeis of the clerical 
and subordinate staff al offices in your Group who 
fall under each of the two categoties menxioned 
above giving full particulars of their names, desig¬ 
nation, Branches where wotking, details of tem¬ 
porary appointment, duration of breaks and the 
date on which they were taken up on probation. 
These particulars may be forwaidcd to Personnel 
DepartmeiiL to reach us belorc 31st .laniuiiv, 1972.” 

44. It will be clear that as the various branches were 
following unfair labour practice in appointing temporary 
hands in permanent posts and continuing them beyond three 
months in violation of the provisions of the Bipartite Settle¬ 
ment and terminating their services, the head office of the 
Bunk hud to issue circulars and enter into settlmcnt from 
time to time to rediess the grievances of the employees 

45. In case of discharge of woikmcn under the contract 
of service or under the Standing Orders the requirement of 
bona fide is sine quo non, .is mala fide oi colourable exei- 
cise of conliactiial oi slatnLory power is not legal exercise 
of such power. In support of this proposition 1 refer to the 
commentary given in the Law of InJustri.il Disputes by 
Shri Malhotia on the basis of .Supreme Court luJgcments 
as at pages 895 and 896. It is as follows;.— 

“The question ol the employeis’ freedom ot conliact in 
the context of industrial adjudication was consi¬ 
dered by the Supreme f ourt in Rai Bahadiii Dewiin 
Badri Das Vs. Industiial Tnbuual, icpoitcd in 
1962, It, 1.1.1 166 Hi I oulshlp Justice 

(.lujendiagiulkar spc.ikuip loi die ni.qoiitv said The 
doctrine of absolnle liccdi'm of contract has 
thus to yield to the higher claims for social justice 
.the right to dismiss an employee is also 


controlled subject to well-recognised limits in order 
to guarantee security of tenure to industrial em¬ 
ployees’. Hence in industrial Law, the claim of 
the employer to terminate the service of his work¬ 
men under the contract of employment or In the 
Standing Orders by giving him a notice or by pay¬ 
ing him wages in lieu of such notice amounts to a 
chum of ‘hire and fire’ on employee. Such claim 
would negalivc security of service which has been 
seemed to industrial employees through industrial 
adjudication and the process of collective batgain- 
Ing evolved from long-drawn strike. Hence, before 
the action of discharge or dismissal by way of 
punishment for a misconduct can be taken against 
a workman under the contract of service or stand¬ 
ing ordcix, the requirement of bona fide is sine quo 
ral justice to draw up a regular proceedings against 
him. Further more even in cases of discharge ot 
a workman under the contiact of service or stand¬ 
ing orders, the requirement of bona-fide is sine quo 
non as mtila fide or colourable exercise of a con¬ 
tractual or statutory power is not legal exercise 
of such power. 

If under the garb of termination simi>lidtcr the ernploycr 
acts mala fide or with the intention to penalise the 
concerned workman, it would be colourable exercise 
of the power, victimiiation or unfair labour practice 
and the industrial tribunal would have the jurisdic¬ 
tion to intervene and set aside such termination 
(1966, I, LU, Page 398)”. 

46. As the Bank has violated the provisions of para. 20.8 
in connection with the appointment of Shri Shrlmali and as 
it terminated his service on the basis of contract of service 
with a view to deprive him of getting the benefits of con¬ 
firmation it can be inferred that the exercise of powers in 
terminating the services of Shri Shrimali on the basis of 
contract of service by the Bank was colourable. Hence the 
termination of service of Shri Shrimali was not proper and 
just and this Tribunal has jurisdiction to intervene and set 
aside the termination. 

47. As Shri Shrimali is entitled to reinstatement he is 
also entitled to get back wages from the date of discharge 
till the date of reinstatement. 

48. Shri Sheikh has given application dated 13-2-1973 in 
Bombay on 15-2-1973 before me after the arguments in this 
case were heard at Nagpur. Hence notice was issued to the 
Union to show cause. 

49. The Union has sent reply on 7-3-1973. It is as 
follows:— 

"1, That the party II Bank vide their application dated 
13-2-1973 (received on or about 26-2-1973) stated 
that Shri Shrimali is gainfully employed. In this 
respect, it is submitted that the statement by the 
Party It Bank is baseless and itrelavent. The 
Bank has not produced any evidence in respect of 
the said statement. 

It is therefore humbly prayed that the application dated 
13-2-1973 be dismissed.” 

50. The Bank has not produced any evidence saying that 
Shri Shrimali has been employed gainfully at his native 
place in Udaipur District In Rajasthan, since he left the 
Bank’s service and that he still continue In service. 

51. The employee has also not conic before me to deny 
that he is not employed. In these circumstances it will be 
in the interest of both the parties, to direct that the work¬ 
man '-hotild apply to the appropriate Laboui Court under 
Section 330(2) of the I.D. Act, 1947 for getting the arrears 
ot wages determined. Ends of justice will meet if I direct 
in this reference that Shri Shrimali is entitled to get back 
wages from the date of discharge fill the date of reinstate¬ 
ment minus the earnings made by him on account of service 
during this period if any and tq get the arreas of wages due 
to him by the Bank determined in a proceedina under 
Section 330(2) of the I.D, Act, 1947. 

52. In the end 1 pass the following order : 

(i) It is hereby declared that the section of the manage¬ 

ment of the Central Bank of India in terminating 
the services of Shri B, K, Shrimali, Peon-cum- 
Watchman at Dhulia Branch of the Bank was not 
justified, and that he is entitled to reinstatjiment 
and continuity of service. 

(ii) It is hereby declared that the applicant is entitled 

to back wages from the date ol discharge till the 
date of reinstatement minus the earnings made by 





1746 


[Part II— 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


him on account of service if any during this period 
and that he should get the arrears of wages due to 
him by the Bank determined by filing application 
under Section 330(2) of the I.D, Act, 1947 to the 
appropriate Labour Court, 

(iii) Award is made accordingly; 

(iv) No order as to costs. 

N. K, VANI, Presiding Officer 
[No. L. 120l2/48/7id.Rni| 

S.O. 1288.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri¬ 
bunal, Madras in the industrial dispute between the em¬ 
ployer in relation to the State Bank of India and their 
workmen, which was received by the Central Government 
on the 24th April, 1973. 

BEFORE THIRU O. GOPINATH, B.A.. B.L., PRESIDING 
OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, MADRAS. 

(Constituted by the Central Government). 

Monday, the 9th day of April, 1973 
Industrial Dispute No. 41 of 1972 

(In the matter of the dispute for adjudication under section 
10(1) (d) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 between the 
workmen and the Management of State Bank of India, 
Madras-1). 

BETWEEN 


The workmen represented by :— 


The General Secretary, State Bank of India Employees 
and Sub-staff union, Hussainy Mansions, 36/37, 
Angappa Naicken Street, Madraa-1. 

AND 

The Secretary and Treasurer, State Bank of India, North 
Beach Road, Madras-1. 


Reference: 

Order No, L. 12012/43/72/LRIII dated 26-9-1972 of 
the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation, Depart¬ 
ment of Labour and Employment, Government 
of India, New Delhi. 


This dispute coming on for final hearing on Saturday the 
17th day of March, 1973 upon perusing the reference, claim 
and counter statements and all other malciiid papers on re¬ 
cord and upon hearing the arguments of Thiru K. S. lana- 
kiraman, Advocate for (he workmen and of Thiruvalargal 
M, R. Narayanaswamy and N. Balasubramanian, Advocates 
for the Bank and having stood over till this day for consi¬ 
deration, this Tribunal made the following. 

AWARD 

This is an industrial dispute between the Management of 
the State Bank of India and their workmen referred for 
adjudication by the Government of India in respect of the 
matter specified in the schedule annexed to the order of re¬ 
ference. The schedule is as follows : 


"Whctlier the action of llio Management of the Slate 
Bank of India in withholding the annual increment 


of Shri S. Thangavelu during the pendency of disci¬ 
plinary proceedings against him is justified? If not, 
to what relief is the said Thangavelu entitled?” 

2. The relevant facts are not in dispute, One Shri Tlianga- 
velu, the employee concerned in this case, was a head clerk 
in what is now designated as the Madras Main Branch of the 
State Bank of India. The Bank has a scheme, whereby it 
assists its employees to buy scooters and motor cycles, by 
providing 80 per cent of the cost of the vehicle, repayable 
m not more than 48 monthly instalments, with interest at 
2-1/2 per cent. The conditions of the advance are that the 
employee should utilise it to buy a scooter or motor cycle 
as the case may be, within a month of the date of payment 
of the advance and (2) he should produce to the Bank, the 
registration certificate of the veliicle, within a month of avail¬ 
ing of the advance and execute a hypothecation agreement 
like Ex. M-2, hypothecating the vehicle to the Bank, Shri 
Thangavelu applied for an advance of Rs. 2,500 for the 
purchase of a scooter and executed an agreement in the 
form exhibited as Ex. M-1 and received the loan on 
24-1-1969 He did not purchase a scooter within the stipu¬ 
lated period of one month. Under the terms of the agree¬ 
ment, he had to repay the loan immediately. The manage¬ 
ment called upon him on 31-5-1969 lo return the advance 
and also informed him that if he failed to jefund the advance, 
he would be liable for disciplinary action (Ex, W-1). This 
was followed by another letter from the Bank to Shri Than^a- 
velu dated 31-5-1969, asking him to refund the advance with 
interest at 9-1/2 per cent per tmnum (Ex. W-2). As there 
was no compliance with these letters, a charge memo dated 
4-9-1969 was issued to Shri Thangavelu, specifying two 
charges against him. The first charge was that he having 
availed of a loan of Rs. 2,500 for the purchase of scooter 
under the Bank’s scheme, had neither purchased a scooter 
nor repaid the advance and that at the time he availed the 
loan, he had no intention to purchase a scooter and that he 
bad mis-used an amenity offered to members of the staff 
and obtained the advance by a misrepresentation and put the 
money to wrong use, and thereby committed an act prejudi¬ 
cial to the interest of the Bank and hence a gross misconduct 
in terms of para 512(4)(j) of the Sastry Award read in 
conjunction with paragraph 18.28 of the Desai Award. The 
second charge was an act of wilful in-subordination for 
disobedience of lawful and reasonable orders of the manage¬ 
ment in that, despite repeated reminders, he neither executed 
a ‘B’ Form (Ex, M-2), nor closed the loan account within 
the stipulated time, Shri Thangavelu submitted an explana¬ 
tion and thereafter a domestic enquiry was held on the 
charges by one Shri S. Venkatachari, a Staff Officer of the 
Bank. This was on 8-4-1970. The enquiry officer found 
Shri Thangavelu guilty of the first charge and exonerated 
him of the second (yide the findings Ex, M-6 dated 1-7-1970). 
By its letter dated 23-7-1970, the management propos^ to 
award the punishment of stoppage of increment for a period 
of one year (Ex. W-5). Shri Thangavelu submitted his 
explanation against the proposed punishment in terms of 
Ex. W-8 dated 28-8-1970. Under Ex. M-7 dated 16-9-1970, 
the management passed an order under paragraph 521 (5)(d) 
of the Sastry Award read In conjunction with paragraph 18.28 
of the Desai Award, stopping the increment of Shri Thanga¬ 
velu for one year, and he was informed that his next incre¬ 
ment would fall due on 1-4-1971. Against this order of 
punishment, Shri Thangavelu pieferrcd an appeal to the 
appellate authority, who declined to interfere. 


3. At the lime of the charge sheet, Shri Tiiangavclu was 
drawing a pay of Rs. 465 exclusive of allowances. Being an 
employee who joined the services of the bank prior to 
31-1-1950, his annual increment fell due on the first of April 
each year, as per the provisions of the Sastry Award, Nor¬ 
mally, he would have reached the maximum in his scale on 
1-4-1970 as per the revised scales of pay finalised in Septem¬ 
ber, 1970, which would have become effective as from 
l-l-]970. The basic pay of Shri Thangavelu as' on 1-1-1970 
was to be Rs, 515 and with effect from 1-4-1970, Rs, 550. 
The complaint of the Union is that Shri Thangavelu became 
entitled to his annual increment, which would have taken 
him to Rs. 550 with effect from 1-4-1970 and that it was 
illegal for the management to have withhold this increment, 
as from 1-4-1970. It is further alleged by the Union that 
by withholding the increment due to Shri Thangavoiu on 
1-4-1970 and imposing the same as a punisliment by its order 
dated 16-9-1970 postponing the next iinnufil increment of 




Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


1747 


Shri Thaneavelu to 1-4-1971. the management not only 
deprived Sriri Thangavelu of his annual increment which fell 
due on l-4»-1970 itself, together with all the other attendant 
benefits but also had deprived him permanently of Ivs 
personal pay, for the rest of his service. 

4, Though in the claim statement, the Union has prayed 
for a direction that the punishment of stoppage of one incre¬ 
ment imposed by the management by its order dated 16-9-1970 
is void and therefore liable to be set aside, the prayer in 
the rejoinder is to hold that the action of the management 
in withholding the incrcmcnl duo to Shri 1 hangavelu on 
1-4-1970 was illegal, inasmuch ns the increment was not 
withheld on any punishment for any proved misconduct on 
that day, and that even if there was a disciplinary action 
pending against him, there was no justification for the 
management to withhold the increment, which Shri Thanga¬ 
velu was entitled to on T4-1970. It is also contended that 
the management had no power or justification to give retros- 

S ective effect to the order of puni.shmcnt of stoppage of 
icrement passed on 16-9-1970. In the light of the order 
of reference, it is clear that the correctness of the order of 
punishment dated 16-9-1970 is not in question, The subject- 
matter of the reference is the propriety of the action of the 
management in withholding the annual increment of 
Shri Thangavelu, during the pendency of disciplinary pro¬ 
ceedings. 

5, The question whether the Management of the State 
Bank of India was justified in withholding the annual incre¬ 
ment of Shri Thangavelu during the pendency of disciplinary 
proceedings against him, that is, with effect from 1-4-1970, 
has to be answered primarily if not solely on the 
basis of the directions in the Sastry Award and the Desai 
Award. Para 85 of the Sastri Award deals with the question 
of the grant of increments. Since it has been accepted and 
reproduced in substance in the Desai Award para 5.117, that 
portion of the Sastry Award need alone be referred to. It 
reads thus ; 


other words, the withholding of his increment was not as a 
punishment for any proved misconduct or gross inefficiency. 
There can be no doubt that on the face of it, the action of 
the management in withholding the increment of Shri 
Thangavelu on 1-4-1970 was in violation of the terms of 
tile Sastry Award, inasmuch ns it dii-ects that such with¬ 
holding of increment can be made only by way of punish¬ 
ment. 

6. Thiru M, R. Narayanaswamy, the learned counsel for 
the management however argued that the direction in the 
Award is that increment should normally be given, that it is 
not therefore automatic and that when a misconduct is 
alleged, or an enquiry is pending against the employee, the 
circumstances are not normal and that therefore the em¬ 
ployee cannot complain when he is not given his increment, 
under such circumstances. It Is true that a charge-sheet 
had been issued to Shri Thangavelu on 4-3-1969 and that on 
1-4-1970 when the increment was due to him, an enquiry 
into the charge was pending and hence he was under a 
cloud. But I certainly cannot see eye to eye with Thiru 
Nariiyanaswamy’s contention that this would afford a right to 
the management to withhold the increment of Shri Thanga¬ 
velu on 1-4-1970, on the basis that the circumstances, so far 
as he was concerned, were far from normal. Para 85 of 
the Sastry Award should not be read in isolation but has 
to be read with Para 86, which gives the clue to the meaning 
of the word ‘normally’ in p.iragraph 85, and it shows that 
the abnormal circumstance contemplated by the Award Is 
the dwindling of profits, and was so considered by the Sastry 
Tribunal. Inis has been approved by the Desai Award. In 
fact, when 85 itself directs that the stoppage of increment 
should only be by way of proved misconduct, it is idle to 
contend that just because there Is a charge pending against 
the employee, which, on that date, had not been proved, his 
increment could be withheld. In tliis connection, I may 
repeat the observations in the Sastry Award to the effect that 
the giving of increment should not be regarded as a matter of 
bounty, at the sweet will and pleasure of the management. 


“Workmen should normally have the benefit of the 
annual increments as a matter of course, provided 
there is not a substantially good reason to deprive 
them of the same either because of their mis¬ 
conduct or gross inefficiency, The wage scale has 
to be so devised that it provides for the growing 
needs of the workmen and his family. Stoppage 
of increment, therefore, is more or less by way of 
punishment. The giving of increments should not 
be regarded as a matter of bounty at the sweet will 
and pleasure of the management. At the same 
time, the management should have the right to see 
that workmen keep up the normal standard of 
efl^ciency and not lapse into indifference and ineffi¬ 
ciency because of the assured prospect of an incre¬ 
mental scale. We, therefore, direct that increments 
should normally be given and stoppage of incre¬ 
ments by management should be only by way of 
punishment for proved misconduct or gross ineffi¬ 
ciency. As a working rule, if in the previous year 
there arc three adverse remarks in the service 
register of the workman entered against him as a 
result of the management’s enquiry into his con¬ 
duct and after consideration of any explanation 
given by him, it may be taken as a pAma fade 
case for stopping the increment at the next stage 
and for the next year. If an employee’s increment 
is to be withheld it should only be done after a 
proper charge-sheet has been framed agaln.st him 
and he has been given adequate opportunity to 
defend himself. The order in writing withholding 
the increment should also mention whether it will 
have the effect of postponing future increments.” 

It is clear from the above that increments should be granted 
to tile employee as a rule and withholding Ihereof is an 
exception. It is further explicit that the stoppage of incre¬ 
ment by the management should only be by way of punish¬ 
ment for proved misconduct or gross inefficiency. It is 
equally manifest that if an employee’.s increment is to be 
withheld or stopped, it should be only after a charge-sheet 
has been framed against him and he has had an opportu¬ 
nity to defend. Admittedly, Shri Thangavelu was not given 
his inclement on 1-4-1970, which he was normally entitled 
to. Therefore, there was a withholding of his increment on 
1-4-1970 and this was obviously long before the conclusion 
of the disciplinary proceedings against Shri Thangavelu. In 


7. It is then urged by the learned counsel for the manage¬ 
ment that what was done by the management was only to 
defer the payment of Increment by reason of the fact that 
there was an enquiry pending against Shri Thangavelu, that 
it was purely a tentative decision, and that the Sastry Award 
does not prevent the management from deferring or postpon¬ 
ing the increment. I am unable to agree with this argument 
either. There is nothing in para 85 of the Award which 
allows the management to defer the increment at any stage. 
There was also no intimation sent to Shri Thangavelu that 
his increment was being deferred. In fact, at no stage before 
the conclusion of the domestic enquiry against Shri Thanga¬ 
velu was he informed that his increment was deferred. Fur¬ 
thermore, I fail to see any real distinction between ‘deferring’ 
and ‘withholding’ of increment. Thiru Narayanaswamy no 
doubt drew my attention to the meaning of the words 
‘withhold’ and ’defer’ in the Concise Oxford Dictionary, which 
says that withholding is refusal to grant whereas deferring is 
postponing or putting off. But it must be noticed that when 
the management postponed the increment, they in effect 
withheld it; for, an employee Is normally entitled to his in¬ 
crement and when you do not give his increment when it 
is due, you are only withholding it, which the management 
is not justified in doing, in view of the SastiT Award, except 
in a case of proved misconduct or gross inefficiency, TTiere' 
fore, the management cannot justify its stand in not giving 
the increment to Shri Thangavelu on 1-4-1970 on the basis 
that there was no prohibition in the Sastry Award from de¬ 
ferring increment pending departmental enquiry. 


8, Thiru Narayanaswamy then invited my attention to 
F.x. W-11, which refers to an agreement between the manage¬ 
ment and the All India State Bank of India Staff Federa¬ 
tion, whereunder the management was allowed to defer sanc¬ 
tion of increments against employees against whom disciplinary 
proceedings were pending for a period of 9 months from 
the date when the annual increment fell due. The present 
Union, that is, the State Bank of India Employees’ Union 
IS admittedly not a party to that agiecment. The agreement, 
It will be noticed, runs contra to the specific directions in 
the Sastry Award. Further, this agreement is subsequent to 
the di^iplinary action taken against Shri Thangavelu. There- 
fore. Ex, w-11 can in no way help the management to 
justify Its stand that in spite of the Sastry Awarck it could 
defer the Payment of increment to Shri Thangavelu as and 
irom 1-4-1970. There can be no doubt that the management 
when It failed to give the increment due to Shri Thangavelu 



1748 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAJSAKHA 15, 1895 


on 1-4-1970 withheld his Increment. According to Para 85 
of the Saatry Award, it can only be done after a proper 
charge sheet has been framed against him and he haa been 
given adequate opportunity to defend himself. This envisa¬ 
ges that such withholding of increment could only be after 
the enquiry was over and when punishment was imposed on 
him. The order of punishment is dated 16-9-1970. What 
the management did from 1-4-1970 to 16-9-1970 was to with¬ 
hold the increment and thereafter to stop it by the order 
dated 16-9-1970 (Ex. M-7). In other words, the manage¬ 
ment had withheld the increment that fell due and payable 
to Shri Thangavelu as and from 1-4-1970, even before he 
had an opportunity to defend himself. This is clearly in 
violation of the Sastry Award. 

9. The learned counsel for the management argued that 
the management had passed the order Ex. M-7 after a proper 
enquiry, that its propriety is not challenged and since tnat 
order has stopped the increment of Shri Thangavelu as and 
from 1-4-1970, the Union cannot have that order vacated 
or set aside in an indirect manner which would be the result 
of holding in favour of the Union in this reference, We 
arc here concerned only with the justification of the action 
of the management in withholding the increment of Shri 
Thangavelu on and from 1-4-1970, pending disciplinary 
proceedings. We are not now concerned with what the 
management could or could not do on 16-9-1970 in exer¬ 
cise of its disciplinary powers. The validity of Ex. M-7 is 
beyond the pale of this controversy. Undoubtedly, the 
management has not paid the increment of Shri Thangavelu 
on M-1970 when it was due and in so withholding the 
Increment the management acted contrary to the direction in 
the Sastry Award. I do not sec any force in the contention 
of the learned counsel for the management that it is in¬ 
cumbent on the Union to question the propriety of Ex. M-7 
itself and that so long as that is not done, the Union can¬ 
not question the action of the management in withholding 
the increment of Shri Thangavelu, with effect from 1-4-1970. 
It was also urged for the management that Ex. M-7 could 
have retrospective operation. The operative part of Ex. M-7 
reads as follows : 

“Accordingly, your increment is stopped for a period of 
one year in terms of paramaph 521 (5) (d) of the 
Sasty Award read in conjunction with paragraph 
18.28 of the Desai Award. Your next increment 
will fall due on 1st April, 1971 subject to your 
conduct and work being satisfactory,” 


[Part II— 


1-4-1970 was also challenged. It is therefore not correct to 
say that the dispute in the present form was never raised 
by the Union. The learned counsel for the management 
also relied on the dccLslon in ‘‘Sindhu Resettlement Corpora¬ 
tion, Ltd, Vs. Industrial Tribunal." (1), In that case, the 
Union had requested the management for payment of 
retrenchment compensation and did not raise any dispute for 
reinstatement. It was held by the Supreme Court that since 
no such dispute for reinstatement was raised before the 
management, the State Government wa.s not competent to 
refer the question of reinstatement as an industrial dispute 
for adjudication by the Tribunal and that the State Govern¬ 
ment could have only referred the dispute relating to pay¬ 
ment of retrenchment compensation. This decision can be 
of no assistance to the management, since the Union has, 
m this case, questioned the right of the management to 
withhold the increment of Shri Thangavelu, during the pen¬ 
dency of the disciplinary proceedings against hSn. Thus, 
on the first part of the reference, 1 have to hold that the 
action of the management of the State Bank of India in 
withholding the Increment of Shri Thangavelu, pending dis¬ 
ciplinary proceedings, is not justified. 


M, inc laiier part ot the leference deals with the re- 
lief, to which Shri Thangavelu is entitled. At the time when 
the charge sheet was issued to Shri Thangavelu, he was 
drawmg a basic pay of Rs. 465 per month, excluding allow¬ 
ances, in the time scale 156-8-180-10-200-15-290-25-490, There 
was admittedly a revision of scales of pay, finalised in 
1 which became effective on and from 

t"l“l970, when the basic pay of Shri Thangavelu was 
Rs. 515 per month, exclusive of allowances. It is further 
clear fwm Ex. W-17 that the basic pay of Shri Thangavelu, 
with effect from 1-4-1970 was to be Rs. 550. That Is to 
say, had Shri Thangavelu become entitled to his annual in- 
crement on 1-4-1970, it would have taken his pay to Rs 550 
with effect from that date, as against Rs. 515 which he was 
drawing on 1-1-1970. He would also be entitled to a 
personal pay of Rs. 35 as per Ex. W-17 from 1-4-1970. His 
l^amess Allowance would also be increased consequently. 
Thus, the monthly benefits which he would be entitled to 
for the period 1-4-1970 to 16-9-1970, had his increment not 
been withheld would be as follows : 


Arrears of Increment 
Personal Pay 
Dearness Allowance 


Rs. 192,50 
Rs. 192,50 
Rs, 190,00 


It Is worthy of notice that the order does not specifically say 
that the increment of Shri Thangavelu has been stopped 
from 1-4-1970. That has to be implied from the order, since 
it says that his next increment will fall due only on 1-4-1971. 
I am unable to hold that the management is in order in 
giving retrospective effect to Ex. M-7. What has, in fact, 
happened in this case is that the punishment has preceded 
the finding; for the increment had been withheld even on 
1-4-1970. It is true that the management has the power to 
impose the punishment of stoppage of increment, but that 
could be only in respect of future increments and not in res¬ 
pect of increments falling due prior to a finding of misconduct 
or gross inefficiency. The management has not shown any 
authority in iustlficatlon of its action in not paying the incre¬ 
ment to Shri Thangavelu on and from 1-4-1970; that is to 
say, before the date of Ex. M-7. To put it differently, the 
management is not entitled to withhold or stop the annual 
increment with retrospective effect on account of the pen¬ 
dency of disciplinary proceedings in the absence of any pro¬ 
vision in the Sastry Award, empowering the management to 
do so. 

10. I have to notice one more argument of Thini Nara- 
yanaswamy for the management. He contends that the 
demand of the Union was, at all material times, for vacating 
Ex. M-7 and that the present dispute in the form presented 
in the reference was never taken up by the Union before and 
that therefore the reference is untenable and invalid. In 
this connection, he refers to Ex. W-10 to W-12. Ex. W-10 is 
the letter of the Union to the Regional Labour Commis¬ 
sioner (Central) dated 16-4-1971, in which the Union has 
requested the management to rescind Ex. M-7. Ex. W-12 is 
again another letter addressed to the Regional Labour Com¬ 
missioner (Central), reiterating this demand, among others. 
It is true that the Union was at all material times pressing 
for the recession of the order dated 16-9-1970, At the same 
time, from Ex. W-IO, it is seen that the action of the manage¬ 
ment in withholding the increment of Shri Thangavelu from 


Rs. 575.00 


Shri Thangavelu would be entitled to be paid this amount. 

(12) In the result, an award is passed accordingly, Dated, 
this the 9th day of April, 1973. 

G, GOPINATH, Presiding Officer, 

WITNESSES EXAMINED 
For both sides : None. 

DOCUMENTS MARKED 

For workmen ; 

'W;1/5*-5-69—l,etter from the State Bank of India to 
Thiru S. Thangavelu asking him to refund the 
advance. 

Ex. W-2/3I-5-69—do— 

Ex. W-3/30-10-69—Notice of enquiry issued to Thini 
S, Thangavelu by the State Rank of India, 

Ex. W-4/2I-3-70—Notice issued by the Enquiry Officer 
to Thini S. Thangavelu notifying the date of enquiry. 

Ex. W-^3-7-70—Letter from the State Bank of India 
to Thini S. Thangavelu proposing to award punish¬ 
ment. 

Ex. W-6/28-7-70—Letter from Thini S, Thangavelu to 
the State Bank of India requesting to furnish copies 
of Enquiry Proceedings and Findings and to post¬ 
pone the hearing. 

BanJt of India to 

TMm S, Thangavelu postponing the hearing for 



SlC. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1749 


F.x. W-8/2H-8-70—Explanation by Thiru S. Thani?a\elu 
to Ex. W-5. 

Ex. W-*?—Appfal by Thiru S. Thangnvclu against the 
order of the Disciplinary Aulhoiity. 

Ex. W-10/16-4-71—Lcttci' from the Union to the Regional 
Labour Commissioner (Central), Madras requesting 
for conciliation. 

Ex. W-11/26-H-7I—Letter from the Assistant I aboiu 
Commissioner (C), Madras to the Union enclosing 
a copy of letter dated 17-11-71 of the State Hank 
of India. 

Ex. W-12/21-12-71—Letter fionr the Union to the 
Regional Labour Commissioner (Central), Madras 
requesting to direct the Bank to restore the in- 
increments. 

£x. W-11/21-8-65—-Staff circulai’ No. 43 regarding 

revision of pay scales of clericrd and cash depart- 
;iie".t and subordinate staff. 

Ex. W-14/I-8-67—Staff circular No. 60 regarding revi¬ 
sion of pay scales of clerical and cash depaitmcnt 
and subordinate staff. 

Ex. W-15/18-3-70—Stall cii’cular No. 21 regarding -do- 

Ex, W-16/3-4-70-—Stall circular No. 24 regarding -do 

Ex. \V-17/23-9-70—Stall circular No. 44 regarding -do- 

I’or Management : 


Ex. M-1—Form A agreement (skeleton form). 

Ex. M-2—Form B agreement (skeleton form). 

Fx. M-3/4-9-69—Charge sheet issued to Thiru S. 

Thangavelu (copy). 

Ex. M-4—Letter from Thiru S. Thangavelu to the State 
Bank of India stating that the advance will be 
repaid within a montn (copy), 

Ex. M-5/8-4-70—Enquiry proceedings (copy). 

Ex. M-6/1-7-70—Findings of the Enquiry Officer 

(copy). 

Ex. M-7/16-9-70—Order of (he Management slopping 
increment for a period of one year. 

G. GOPINATH, Presiding Officer. 

Note ; The parties are directed to take return of their 
document/.s within six months from the date of the 
award. 


[No. 12012/43/72-LR III 

S.O. 1289.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industria 
Disputes Act, 194/ (14 of 1947), the Central Governraeni 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri 
buna], Ahmcdabad in tbe industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the State Bank of India and thcii 
workmen, which was received by the Central Governraeni 
on the 24th April, 1973. 


BEFORE SHRl INDRAHT G. THAKORE, PRESIDING 
OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, 

AHMED ABAD 

Reference (ITC) No. 1 of 1971 

BETWEEN 

The Management of the State Bank of India, Ahmedabad. 
AND 

Shri A, R, Bhatt, 


In tire matter of terminating the services of Shrl A. R. 
Bhatt, Clerk of the Works. 

Appearances : 

Shri G. G. Mehta, Advocate—for the B.ank. 

Shri N. 1. Mehta, Advocate—for the Workman. 

11 G of 1/73—8 


AWARD 


This industiial dispute betixeeii the employers in relation to, 
the Management of the Stale Bank of India, and Shri A. R. 
Bhatt, a wotkmiin of the bank in respect of the matter spe- 
cilicd in llic schedule was under clause (d) of sub-section (1) 
t>f section 10 of the Indnsti'ial Disputes Act, J947, referred 
for ailjiidication to the Central Government, Industrial Tri¬ 
bunal, Bombay, by the order of the Government of India, 
Ministry oL Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation, (Depart¬ 
ment of Epdoui and Employment) No, 23/8/69/LRIII, 
dated 24tb December, 1970. Ah the workman concerned in 
the dispute requested the Central Government for the transfer 
of the case from Bombay to Ahmedabad and as the Central 
Govermnent consideied the request as reasonable, in exercise 
of the powers conferred by section 7A and sub-section (1) 
of tccuon j 3B of ihc Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the 
Central Ciovera.nent withdicvv the proceedings in relation 
to the said dispute pending before the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, and transferred the same to me 
by their Order No, 23/8/69/r.R III, dated 17th Februa^, 
1971, with a direction to proceed with the said proceeding 
from the stage at which they were transferred and dispose of 
the same according to law. 

The dispute that is referred to me is as follows 


‘ Whether the action of Ihe Management of State Bank 
of India, Bhadra, Ahmedabad, was justified in ter¬ 
minating the services of Shri A. R. Bhatt, Clerk-of- 
works, with effect from the 7th December, 1968 ? If 
not, to what relief is he entitled 7” 

In this matter, the statement of claim was filed by the 
worker on 2()th day of January, 1971, The 
company filed a written statement on 26th day of February, 
1971. In tbe said written statement, no preliminary objection 
as such was taken by the Bank, However, in para (2) of 
the statement of claim, the workman, inter alia, stated that 
he was a ‘workman’ under the Industria] Disputes Act, 1947, 
and was covered by the terms and conditions of the Shastri 
and Desai Awards and certain settlements. In para (7) of 
the statement of claim, he has inter alia, further stated 
that he was a woi’kimm under Ihe Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, and that Shastri Award and the Desai Award and the 
various settlements and agreements between the Bank and the 
workmen applied to him and the fact that he was a tem¬ 
porary servant does not disentitle him to the protection of 
the aforesaid awards and settlements. 


Dealing with para (7) of the statement of claim, the flank 
in its written statement denied that Shri A.R. Bhatt is a ‘work¬ 
man’ under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as contended. The 
Bank denied that the Shastii Award or the Desai Award 
or the various settlements and .tgreements between the Bank 
and the w'orkraen apply to the workmen as contended. To 
this written statement filed by the Bank, a written rejoinder 
was tiled by the worker on 25th day of March, 1971, to 
which the Bank filed a Rejoinder, dated llfh August, 1971. 
In para (5) of the Reply, the workman has stated that he 
was on the Bank staff as per the appointment order and wm 
‘ a workman’ as per the Industrial Disputes Act, T947, his 
salary being Rs. 500 p.m., and the service conditions as 
are applicable to workman staff of the Bank are applicable to 
him. In the written reply to the Rejoinder, the Bank has, 
inter alia, stated as follows ;— 


“The respondent denies that the applicaiit is a workman 
within the definition of the Industrial Disputes Act 
as alleged. The respondent submits that the appli¬ 
cant’s appointment was for purely temporary and 
contractual and the provisions of Award, Agreement, 
Settlement etc. applicable to other members of the 
staff did not apply to him. The respondent denies 
that the ser vice conditions as are applicable to the 
workman staff of the respondent arc applicable to 
the applicant as alleged. The respondent submits that 
as the applicant is not a workman within the mean¬ 
ing of Industrial Disputes Act and as the Agreement, 
Award, Settlement etc. do not apply to him, this 
Honourable Court has no jurisdiction to entertain 
the application in question." 




1750 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 


Neither in the written statement nor in the rejoinder, thii 
preliminary point as such was raised by the Bank. In the 
case of the reply, however, the Bank denied that the appli¬ 
cant was a workman under the Industrial Disputes Act. No 
reasons why he was niJc a woikmnn under the industrial Dis¬ 
putes Act according *0 the Bank, have been indicated in the 
written statement or in the subsequent reply 

After the matter was ready for hearing, the hearing started 
and the workman was examined by his counseh Before, 
however, the evidence started no written application or oral 
request was made to this Tribunal to determine the issue 
whether the applicant was a workman’ under the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, and whether this Court had, therefore, 
jurisdiction to determine this question or not. After the evi¬ 
dence of the applicant was over, Shri K. Vankatachari, Chief 
Officer (Law) was examined on behalf of the Bank. There¬ 
after, the c.vidcnce concluded and Shri N. I. Mehta, Advocate 
for the workman, extensively made his submissions to this 
Tribunal, After Shri Mehta concluded his argument^ Shri 
G. G. Mehta, counsel for the Bank, began to make his sub¬ 
missions that this Tribunal has no jurisdiction to determine 
this i.ssue as the applicant was not a workman under the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. He was, therefore, called 
upon by me for the sake of convenience to make submi.s- 
sions in writing of a preliminary nature which he proposed 
to arjjue. The workman was also culled upon by me to give 
a written reply to the preliminary contentions raised by the 
Bank which were given and put on record. In the same, 
objection has been raised on behalf of the applicant to allow 
the Bank to raise the preliminary contentions now at this 
stage. The objection taken is in this form:— 

“I'he Bank has vaguely stated in its written statement 
that the applicant is n.'t a workman. But no par¬ 
ticulars or facts or grounds on the basis of which 
the Bank contends that he is not a workman have 
been set out. On the contrary, the Bank contended 
before the Conciliation Officer that the applicant was 
a temporary employee and was, therefore, not a 
Workman. Therefore, the applicant has always 
understood the aforesaid contention to cover only 
the contention that the applicant is not a workman 
because he is a temporary workman. All other 
grounds on which the applicant is contended not 
to be a workman are set out for the first time in 
the memo, of preliminary contentions. They have 
not been mentioned in (he written statement of the 
Bank at all. They raise mixed questions of law and 
facts. The parties have absolutely closed their evi¬ 
dence. The Bank should not be allowed to raise 
contentions which require factual basis to be laid. 
In view of the above, the Bank should not bo 
allowed to raise the aforesaid contention because it 
is not a pure contention of law but it raises a 
mixed question of law and facts and the propci 
factual foundation for the said contentiiin has not 
been laid in the pleadings.” 

The Bank has submitted in reply that they had denied in 
their written statement, dated 26ffi February, 1971, that the 
applicant was a workman under the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, in para (7) and submitted in para (8) that in the 
circumstances the application of the applicant may be dis¬ 
missed; that again in their rejoinder they had denied that the 
applicant was a workman within the definition of the Indus¬ 
trial Disputes Act and further that this Court had no Juris¬ 
diction to entertain the application. They have submitted that 
in the circumstances they were entitled to make submissions 
in respect of this preliminary objection on the evidence pro¬ 
duced; that if the workman wanted to lead any evidence in 
this respect since they had denied that he was a workman, 
he should have done so. The Bank has also submhfcd that 
there is even ample evidence before this Tribunal to come 
to a conclusion on the preliminary points raised. The Bank 
has further submitted that the question of jurisdiction of this 
Tribunal is a question of law which can be raised at any 
stage. 

it appears to me that there is considerable substance in 
the objection raised by Shri N. I. Mehta on behalf of the 
workman. In fairness, the Bank should have in their written 
statement and reply raised the question of jurisdiction as a 
preliminary issue and not merely incidentally referred to it 
in their denials, A mere denial that he is not a workman 
under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, hardly has any mean¬ 


[Part II— 


ing unless the reasons, therefore, are indicated as has been 
done now, viz., that he is not a workman because he is 
not employed m an industry as defined in the Industrial Dis¬ 
putes Act, 1947, as also because he is employed in a super- 
visoiy capacity and his salary per month exceeds Rs. 50U 
In any event, the preliminary point ought to have been can¬ 
vassed before the evidence of ihc workman started. This is 
particularly so because the point raised is certainly not a pure 
question of law but the answer would depend upon facts 
whether the activity in which ho is employed by the State 
Bank of India constitutes an industry or not as defined in 
the Industrial Disputes Act, whether tihe duties performed by 
the workman were of a supervisory nature or not and whether 
his salary per month exceeds Rs. 500 or not, which are 
all questions of fact and ihe delermination of (he preliminary 
issues raised depends on' the determination of these facts. 
To say the least, this is extremely unfair to the applicant. As, 
however, these arc questions which go to the root of my 
jurisdiction and as they were indicated though vaguely in the 
written statement, though not as they should have been, I 
have not disallowed their raising this preliminary objection. 
No application has been made on behdf of the workman 
that they desire to lead further evidence in view of the ques¬ 
tion being raised in this manner at a later stage. In the cir¬ 
cumstances, I am dealing with ibc preliminary points raised 
in the light of the evidence that has been produced. 

As stated earlier, the preliminary objections have been re¬ 
duced to writing and are on record. For all practical purpose, 
they may be recast as follows :■— 

(1) That the applicant was nut a workman Inasmuch as 
he was employed in a supervisoiy capacity and drew wages 
exceeding Rs. 500 per mensem. 

(2) The activity in which he was employed, viz., the ex¬ 
tension or building construction work of the Bank was not 
an industry as denned in Section 2(j) of the Act He was 
not employed in industry inasmuch us the extension or the 
building construction work of the Bank wherein he was em¬ 
ployed as clerk-of-works was not an industry as defined in 
Section 2(j) of the Act. 

The first question which I shall deal with is whether he 
was employed in a supervisory capacity or whethci his duties 
were of a supervisory nature. This has to be inferred from 
the oral evidence on record and on certain documentary evi¬ 
dence. 

The applicant is a B,E. (Civil) of the Gujarat University. 
He was appointed in connection with the work for extension 
of the original building of the .Shde Bank as a cleik-of-works. 
In his cxaminalion-in-cbief he has stated as follows :— 

"I had to work on the site under instructionr from the 
architects and consulting engineers and see that the 
work was carried out according to specifications. 1 
was working in a technical capacity and it required 
technical knowledge. .My duties consisted of inter 
alia checking the mixture, checking the bill of 
measurements submitted by the contractor and sub¬ 
mitting day to day report ot the progress of the 
work to consulting architect and engineer, I had also 
to check whether proper materials were utilised. All 
these duties required technical knowledge ” 

In his cross examination he has, inter alia stated a* 
follows ;— 

'T agree that the duties of a clerk of works include (1) 
day to day supervision on site; (2) interpretation of 
drawings (checking mix, lime, level, etc.); (3) co¬ 
ordination between various contractors; (4) checking 
of quality of work; and (5) checking the bills sub¬ 
mitted by contractors. Progress Report submitted by 
the clerk-of-works includes work done during the 
day. The discussion of clerk-of-works with Archi¬ 
tects include (1) Reasons for woik not done (2) 
Particular and further details of work to be carried 
out. All our duties arc subject to the final approval 
from the architect and consulting engireer and the 
clerk of the works caunot make any change without 
our previous instruction in writing from architect 
and consulting engineer.” 

Shri K, Venketachari, Chief Officer (Law) of the State 
Bank of India, has in his evidence, inter alia, stated as 
follows 

“They work under the supervision of architects but ar* 
under the administrative control of the Bank officers. 



MAY 5, 1973/VATSAKHA 15, 1S95 


1751 


Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA 


Their work primarily consists of supervisinB the con- 
slruction work on behalf of the Bank.” 

According to the l-nw Officer, again the post of premises en¬ 
gineer is entirely different frojn the post of a clerk-of-works. 

The ‘Workman’ is defined in Section 2(s) of the rndiistrial 
Disputes Act, 1947, and the portion relevant for our purpose 
is as follows :— 

“Workman” means any person (including an apprentice) 
employed in any industry to do any skilled or un- 
.skilled manual, supervisory technical or clerical work 
for hire or reward, whether the terras of employ¬ 
ment be expressed or implied, and for the purposes 
of any proceeding under this Act in relation to an 
industrial dispute, incluvies any such person who has 
been dismissed, discharged or retrenched in connec¬ 
tion with, or as a consequence of, that dispute or 
whose dismissal, dischaigc or retrenchment has led 
to that dispute, but docs not include any such pei-son- 


(iv) who, being employed in a supcivisory capacity, 
draws wages exceeding five hundred rupees per men¬ 
sem or exercises, either by the nature of the duties 
attached to the office or by reason of the power 
vested in him, functions mainly of a managerial 
nature.” 

The work “Supervise” has been aefmed in the “Webster's New 
World Dictionary” as follows ; — 

“L. super—, over * videre, to see, to oversee or direct 
(work, workers, a project, etc.); superintendent.” 

In order to be a workman, a person has to bo employed to 
do any manual, clerical supervisory or technical work. It, 
however, does not follow therefrom that whenever a technical 
man is employed in an industry, it must be held that he is 
employed to do technical work irrespective of the manner 
in which and the occassions oii which the technical knowledge 
of that person is actually brought into use. The question 
would be whether he is doing technical work or he is doing 
supervisory work. Supervisory work has, however, always 
been understood as supervision over others and presupposes 
the employment of a number of persons under him. That 
is the sense also in which the words used herein are under¬ 
stood and explained by the Supreme Court. 

The idea of a supervisor ordinarily presupposes a number 
of persons working under him whether skilled, semi-skilled 
or unskilled. His duty is to allot and distribute work, to see 
whether they work properly or not, to imtiate if necessary, 
disciplinary pi’oceeding.s, recommend or grant leave etc. This 
may involve even some kind of teclmical knowledge, but if 
his duties consist of overseeing the work of others and 
directing them, he would be a .supervisor, but the essential 
idea of supervision appears to be a person overseeing the 
work of a number of others. In the first instance, from the 
duty list given this essential requisite of supervisory work 
does not appear to be satisfied. The work of construction of 
extension of the premises is entrusted to a contractor. It is 
the contractor who brings his men, supervises the work and 
is responsible for carrying out tiie work as per specifications. 
There is not an iota of evidence, not even i suggestion made 
at the liearing that the workmen of the contractor who work, 
under the direction and control of Shri Bhatt, or that Shri 
Bhutt exercises any kind of jurisrliction or control over them. 
There aic also no workers or a.ssistants employed under Shn 
Bhatt and it is common ground that Shri Bhatt is the only 
person employed for this work by the Bank. He is working, 
if at all, under the directions of the architect. His duties 
as detailed by them were to c'leck the mixture check the 
bills submitted by the contractor, submit day to day report 
of the progress of the work to the consulting architect and 
to check whether proper materials were utilised. It is true 
that in the cross examination he has stated that the duties 
of a clerkyof-works include day to day supervision on site, but 
the supervision referred to is not supervision over the contractor’s 
men, or control and direction over the conti actor’s men, but 
the supervision is as to checking Hie materials used, checking 
the quality of work and checking whether work was accord- 
m(f to specilicalions or not. This, in my opinion, is vciy 
different from supeivisory woik and is work of a technical 
nature. 


In 1 loyds Bank Tld., and Panna Lai Gupta and others 
(reported in 1961, L.L.J., Vol, 1, page 18), there was the 
question of payment of a certain allowance to certain persons 
and before a clerk could claim a special allowance his work 
must appear to have some clement of supervisory character. 
Their Lordships observed,— 

“The work that is done by the clerks in the audit 
department substantially consists of checking up 
books of accounts and entries made in them. This 
checking up is primarily a process of accounting, 
and the use of the word "checking” cannot be per¬ 
mitted to introduce a consideration of supervisory 
nature. The work of checking the authority of Uie 
person passing the vouchor or to enquire whether 
the limit of authority has been exceeded is also no 
doubt work of a checking type but the checking 
is purely mechanical, and it cannot be said to in¬ 
clude any supciwisory function. If we take into 
account the six classes of clerks specified in Cl. 9, 
it would suggest that in respect of each one of them 
there would normally be some persons working under 
the persons falling in that clause; in other words, 
a person claiming the status of a supervisor in Cl, 

9 should normally have to supervise the work of 
some others who are in a sense below him.” 

I Liiihcion they have observed.— 

"It was always a matter of determining what the primary 
duties of an employee were—did he do clerical or 
manual woik; if the answer was in the affirmative, 
lie was a workman; were his dutic.s of a supervisory 
nature; if the answer was in the affirmative, he was 
not a workman. In considering the latter aspect of 
the problem industiial adjudication gcnciall/ took 
the view that the supervisor or officer should occupy 
a position of command or decision and should be 
authorised to act in certain matters within the limits 
of his authority without the sanction of the manager 
or other supers inoivs,” 

In Biirmah Shell Oil Slorage & Distribution Company of 
India Ltd, and The Burmah Snell Management Staff Associa¬ 
tion and Others, (reported in 1970, II, LLJ, p. 590) the 

qiic.slion vvas whether a inimbei of persons described ns Junior 
management staff who cl aimed to be workmen were workmen 
yr not, From the said decision, it appears to me that the 
following principles follow:— 

11) l-or an employee in an industry to be workman under 
S. 2(s) of the Industiial Disputes Act, he must be employed 
to do skilled oi unskilled manitel work, supcrvisoiy work, 
technical work, or clerical work. If the work done by an 
employee is not of such a nature, he would not be a 

woikmon. 

(2) Whcic an employee is lequired to do more than one 

kind of work, ie, where hi would be doing itiamial woik 
as well as supervisory work, or clerical work n.s v/cll as 
upervisory work, or technical work as well as clerical woik, 

the principle now well seltled is that he must be held to be 

employed to do that work which is the work he is required to 
do even though he may be incidentally doing other types of 
work or, in other words, what were his principal and main 
luties. 

(3) Iheit whenever a (echniial man is employed in an in¬ 
dustry, it docs not follow that he is employed to do technical 
woik irrespective of the manner in which and the occasions 
on which the technical knowledge is brought into Ujc. 

(4) If a person's work viepeiids upon special mencal train¬ 
ing or scientific or technical knowledge and if a man is em¬ 
ployed because he possesses such faculties and they enable 
him to produce something as a certain of his own, he will 
have lo be held to be employe,! on technical work even (hough 
in carrying out that work he may have lo go through a lol 
of rtianiial labour. If a man is merely employetl in supei- 
vismg the woik of otheis, the fact that for the purpose of 
proper .supervision, he is required to have technical knowledge, 
will not convert his supcivisory vv-ork into technical work. 

In the li.L'hl ol these principles they have con .idered wncthcr 
.1 niiinbcr oi calcgoiics like transport engineers, distiicl cii- 
ginecis, foicman (i hernicals), fuelling siipci'iritcndenis 
md chemists, sates engineering representatives, 
blending supcivjsois, foreman, etc., aic doing Icchnii id woik 



1752 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5. 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


01 supervisory vvoik, but it Is appsicnl fiom tne discussions 
of Ihcir Lordships iii lespert ot e.ieh ce.tegoiy diat oniy those 
who had fi eeitiiin niiiiihc,' ol men working under tiiein and 
whose work they were ovci seeing ha\e been considered as 
doing supcivlsoiy work. Thus, ihe transport engineer had 58 
pei.sons working iindet him. Amongst these 58 poisons, Id 
were mechanics, 22 htteis, 3 tiirneis, 2 wcldcis, 5 auto-elcc- 
triciaiis, 2 carpenters, 3 pamlcis and the remaining 8 weic 
semi-skilled or unskilled ma/doo's. Shii G. G- Mehta has 
iclieil on one oi two ohsci v.itlons of (hcii- Loidships ot the 
Supreme Court. However, I do not think those one or two 
observations can be torn out of the context. It was clearly 
put to the witness as follows.— 

“I put it to you that you are employed principally to 
supeivisc. contiol and co-oidinafe ihe activities of 
Ihc conliactois and the company’s men in the district 
for all the construe!ion and maintenance work?” 

His answer was :— "'Ves, that is true." 

The distiict englnec", theicfore, wi s employed piincipally to 
supervise, control and cooidiiustc the activities ot the contrac¬ 
tors and the company’s men in (he distiict foi all construction 
and maintenance work and his duties wcic, thercfoie, consi¬ 
dered to bo supervisoi y. 7 hey have fiiither observed,— 

“On the othci h^md, it appeals that the piincipal work, 
for which he is ciiploycd. is that of snpci vision in¬ 
asmuch as he is required to supervise work done by 
others instead of doing the v/oik him.scif” 

It also appeared that ho conti oiled and directed the work of 
draughtsman, fittcis and painters thioughout the district. 

The foicman fcheu.iculs) duties wcie considereu and he had 
20 workmen nndci him in the chemical department, including 
checkois, gcneial workmen, packers and chemical mixcis. He 
admitted that he allotted woik to the woikman under him 
who were 20 in number, r-mlliot, he bad anothci 20 workmen 
under him for lory lilling of luiiiace oil. Though he denied 
that he was responsible foi their discipline, he admitted th.rt 
he makes reports to the offleer-in-charge whenever an occasion 
aii.ses. He iccomnicnds the promotion of the men wot king 
under him and he is entitled to select a person for acting 
in a higher capacity for the day when the pci son occupying 
the higher job is absent. 

The fuelling supeiriitendciu's dutie)_ weic held not to bo 
supervisoiy as it was den that the main and substrm.ail work 
which he did not that of supervising the woik done by Ihc 
few workmen who assisted him, but his own manual uoik 
which he carried out at the depot as well as wnen delivering 
oil to the aircraft, 

In All India Rescue Hank Lmployees' Associ.ilion and an¬ 
other and Receive Rank of Iticiia and rmothei (lepcilcd in 
1965, II, LLJ, p, 175), their Lordships of the tiuprenic Coiiit 
observed..— 

“.7 lieso employees distiibute work, detect 

fauits icpoit for penally, make arrangjmtnts foi 
filling vacancies, to mention only a few of the duties 
which aic superviaoi’y and not rnoiely clerical.” 

Shri O, G. Mehta has relied with a good deal of conviction 
on the decision of the .Supiemc Conit in the .State Bank of 
Bikaner and Jaipur and Shri Hari liar Nath Uhaigava, (re¬ 
ported in 1971, IL LLI, p. 321) in support of his contention 
that a pci’son need not have siiiioi dinates woiking undei him 
to perform siipcivisoi y duties. In the said decision a claim 
for what is known as snpeivisoiy special allowance w.is made 
and granted particularly because the peison conccined w'as 
given certain power of attorney. With respect to the learned 
counsel, this decision Ins no relevance whatsoever to the facts 
of the present case 7heir I oiddiips were not hciein called 
upon to decide a.s to wh.il w'oik could be considereu super¬ 
visory work for the puipo,e of Section 2(s) of the Industrial 
Disputes Act or who could be considered employed in n siipei- 
visory capacity foi the paipo^e of the said section. 

As is clear from the Awaid in iaspect of banks of Shri 
K. T Desai (pain 5 220 at page 131) under ^hc scheme ol 
Shastri Avv.aid sepaiate scales of pay were piovided foi nicm- 
beis of the suboidinate st.ifT. Among Ihc niembcis ot the 
cleiical staff and of ihc s'llxiidiii ilc si,iff Ihcie wuc vaiioiis 
catcgoi ies of workmen. Wage differe nii.iis had lo be piovided 


[Part H— 

for different categories of workmen failing within the atoicsaid 
tiV'O bioad classes by spe,,ial allowances. In pvanigraph 162 of 
its awaid the Shaslii fiibLinal has observed that it was but 
light that peisons With sjiecial qualific.ilions oi- skill icquiied 
for discharging work car lying with it greater rcspoiisiliility 
than routine woik should have higher emoluments than an 
ordinary woikman. 'the Shasliy Tribunal considered tile vaii- 
otis ways by which the extia payment may be pirovided for 
i nd obseivcd that it would be simplei on the whole to solve 
the pioblem by pioiidmg for a lump sum allowance called 
'spscclal allowance' in each cl such cases w'heie it consideied 
the ^anic w.is called foi and piovided the varying allowances 
foi different categories of employees. The categories that were 
so eulitlcd to weic devided into 9 and category 9 consisted 
of supervisory, slipci Intendeiils, sub-accountanls, dep.u tnientai 
111 chaiges, employees in charge ot hcasiuy pay olhcc* The 
question both m the Lloyds Bank case and In the c-.je now 
relicil upon by Shi'i G. G. Mthla wa.s wtiethei some persons 
fcl! in this category 9 and wcie entitled to the special allow- 
.".ncc piovided for that ciuegoiy. Ihe question did .lot aiisc 
loi consideration at all as lo wliat duties wcie contenipialed 
as su.icivisoiv undei Section 2(s) of the Indiisliial Disputes 
\ct. It appeals to me that ai the time of Ic Shashi Award 
the daunition of the v'oid ‘workman’ wa.s different .and did 
not include peisons doing supeiviso.y woik. I'his vva, included 
only after the amendiuent to the definition ol woikmcn in 
1966 1 ven befoie the Desai Award both at the time of 

[he Sh.islii Aw'ard and Desai Award there was no evidence 
•iboul the duties of a srpervisoiy nuUue dischargul by various 
perons in various I'/anks. 7his is, >cry clear fiom paia 5.217 
(pige 130) of the Desai Awaul, In tlie citi umslances, in my 
opinion, tins decision h.is no hearing at all on the inlcrpieta- 
tion of Section 2f,) of the Incliistiial Disputes Act, J947. 

it appears to me, thcieioic, Irom these and a laige number 
oi olhci decisams whs'li reed not be rcfciicd Lo tn.it one 
ot iho c'scniial mgiedienis lo considei- to be supervisory duties 
has been that the pcisoii must have a number of peisons 
working under him whoso work he supervises. Shri Bhatt 
undoubtedly had no persons w'oiking under him. lie was 
not h.iving any stipcn'i.sory power over any ot Ihc workeis 
of the coiitiiictoi. Ho was citliei SLipt*ivi,ing the inr.lerials 
useil or checking whether the work was eaiiied out according 
to specilicaiioiis or cheeking the hill' wiiieh wore siibmiltcd by 
the contractor, things vey dtlietcnt from supci vising the work 
of men. I am, therefore, ol the view that Siiii Bn.itf was 
not employed in a supeivisoi'v capacity but was employed to 
do technical work. 

But even if Sliii Bhatt was employed in a snpervi'oiy capa¬ 
city he would not cca,e to be a woikman. He would only 
cease to be a wcvrkman d he chew waigcs exceeding Rs. 500 
pci mensem or evcicr.cd eilher by the nature of the duties 
attaih'Xi to the ofti.e oi liy reason of the power vested ui him 
functions mainly oi a m in„gcri d natoic. It is not the 
honi’s case that he vv-r, c.\cicising iuiictions mainly of a 
niauageiinl natui’C In (he cii''umslBUccs, even if he was 
euipio’/cd in a siipcivisoiy capacity he would still be a woik- 
man unless he diew wages oeecding Rs. 500 per mensem. 
Now, there is no 'Uni'ii (hit he was being ,-iud Rs, 500 
per mensem b'vcn the Bank h,is admitted ihat ins salaiy 
including ali ,’ilowiinccs wa.s Rs. 500 pci monih The same 
would onlv exvi-cd if the ovci ime allowance and leave allow¬ 
ance paid to him v/cie taken into considei .ation. The Bank 
has at a late stage pioduced tlie hgnrcs of oveitime allowance 
ant leave aiiowance paid .0 Mni Bh.ilt The .statement of 
hgurcs, inter alia, is as follows.— 

Overtinio Allowances 


Sr. 

Month 

Amount of overtime 

Paid on 

No. 


due and payablo. 

1. 

Sop 1 ember, 1967 

Rs,93,75 

5-10-67 

2. 

Oct her, 

1967 

60.00 

8-11-67 

3. 

April, 

1968 

131.25 

6- 5-68 



Leave 

Allowances 

--- 

s7. ' 

Pci lod 

Amount of leave Paid on 

Pay'lien t 

No 


ailowancc.s 




Rs, P. 



1. 

42 days 

677.45 

19-9-70 

Payment by 


Payment older 
No, 16/5322 
D(. 19-9-70. 




Sec. 3(ii) J 


I’HE GAZE I rp. OF INDIA : 


27” ' —ilo— 22-i"> ' 8-12-70 P.-yniont b> 

(llaUnce claMiiciil oic’er No. 

16/7137 

131.8-12-70. 

Fmiu (his it appeals that Shii Bhatt wa.s paid n certain 
■aaOLint oi ovc?lmae in ScpJcnibei, 1967, and Oclobe; 1967, 
and a ceitaiil amount of ovtitime in April, 1968. Tl is also 
cl'ciOa-. I’ujui tins Ih d no ovcitime was paid to Shii Bhatt 
I'lOiii Mi.y onw.iids till Ihe dale of his discharge in 1968. 

I am not coneoined heiciu will! the question whethei oicrtiinc 
Mas iiiciLiJci.1 ill the leim 'Wages' I'oi ceilaiii piiij)o.3es. I 
am onl> eoncei netl with the question whethei ‘o'ertinie would 
be included in the expression ‘ being employesl in a supervisory 
eapaeil/ drawing wages eseecding 500 rupees pei jlen'.cni.” 
It appc.ns to me even .i little shoelsing to uiggcst thai Shri 
ilhatl vwn not a woi Linan heeanse hi.s wages iiicliidii g ovtr- 
inne oeeasioiially eAe-eeJed 500 lupeO) pel month. It is 
nowhere suggested lhat it was a condition of service that 
5ini Bhatt should every incuth put in a lived nuinbcr of 
oveitia.e houis tor whiih he would be paid a ccjtain oveilnnc 
e'e V iiLinlh The oveitin.e concerned heneiii is ovcrlimc 
oeea.ionally lhat may have tc be put in and the liguics of 
oveitPve dining two yeais aie piodiiced, only ui whiili show 
that he eained oceitiine 1 months, If the argument advanced 
by ihe lianl; was accepted and siieh overtime included for 
the piiipo.c ot inlcipretvilion of Section 2(sXiv) the status 
of a pcison would vary ftoni month to moiitti according to 
the ac'-idcnts of Ins ovcilimc w'orkmg, he being a workman 
dining some months and not a workman for other months. 
The suggestion lo include ovcitimc foi (he piuposc appeals 
lo mo to be too liiiolous lo lequirc sciious cimsidciation 
.md whether overtime is wtuas foi ceitain pinpi.'jcs or not 
iiiidei the Indiisli iai Disputes Act or any othei Act. ] have 
not ihe slightest doubt that they cannot be taKen into consi- 
dcintioii al 'cast foi the pin pose of .Section d(s)(iv) of the 
Indiistii.il Disputes Ad, 194/, whcie the oveiiime Is not a 
.cgiihir invaiiable fciUine as in the piesent case. 

lieliaiiLt. vai again pi iced on ceitain payments made to 
‘shii Bliatl 111 leaped of leave which he was nol allowed to 
enjoy. Undci Section 35 of the Shops A l-.stablisiimeuts 
‘n-l. a poison becomes onliilcij (o a ceitain tuimbcr of days 
of leave wilh wages when lie woi ks for a certain number of 
days. Now, what he beco.iic' eiiliticd to is le.ne vviili wnigcs 
and not uddiliondi wages ou Jiaving put in a certain number 
oJ days’ service. It is tint (hat under certain contingencies, 
.igain rcleiicj lo in Seclion 35, when a person is not able 
to avail of this leave, he is paid cash compen ation lor the 
.same, but it passes rriy und-'sl.mdihg how this can be iiichided 
in his wages pei nonih. (Jidinanly a person earns wages 
for such number of days lie h.is woikcd duiing a month or 
leave wi:h w igis foi s'nh buys of ihc ii.onlh on which he 
h.r, not ■p'oikcd foi whnTi leave ii due lo him, W.iges paid 
ill lieu of leave under cerUiin coiitiiigcucies cannol, .ii any 
c cut, be included i i his w.ines per mensem foi (he purpose 
of Section 2(s)(lv') 1 ai i Ihcicfoic, ol Ihc view tlui Shi I 

Bhatt did not diaw wages exceeding Rs, 5('(/ pei month. 
1 am also of the opinion that Shii ilh.dt vis employed to do 
tC'-Iniical work and nol siineivisoiy ivoik. Even assumin.g that 
I am wrong in nv conciu-ions .'ii I ,Shn Bhatt w'as employed 
lo do supeivisniy vvoi k, or in other vvoidi employed in a 
supdrvisorv capaci.y, even then he would b.’ a ' oikmaii under 
ruction 2(s) as ho did not diaw w.igcs exceeding Rs. 500 per 
mensem oi cxciciscd I unctions mainly of a niLiniigeiial n.iUiic. 

ihc nod question th.'d lulls lo be considered is wbcihei he 
uai_Oil.ployed in an iiiduslry, for to be a woiKmaii under 
.Seclion 2(s) lie ni'ist be i poison on ployed in any industry. 
\n indi'stiy is dtfined in .Seclion 2(j) of Ihe Indiisliial Dis¬ 
putes .Act, 1947. It is subir'lPed thnl Ihc ex.en.sion of the 
building '.onstnicTioii W'n k of ihe B ink w.'s nol an industry 
ns (leiincd in Section 2fj) of *ho Ait' Ih it the extension woik 
of the bulk did nol f.dl v/],hin Ihc banking h.sincss oi any 
o‘h''i business for v hich llie b.ml. was coiistiliPrd under 
Sc tion 3(l) of the Slate Bank of India Acl 195S jt being 
nol a business .it all Shii N. 1. Mehla has aihniillcd that 
'hi' I, .'g.iin n mixed quc'-tion of l.iw and fact ,ind tnis ques- 
lion vv.is nol raised in the pleadmes oi cv'en ui the evidence 
■ ind c.mnot be ullovvcd lo be laiscd He lia- fuiilicr sub- 
iniilcd ih d he w,is einployid in an indusriy hcLaiisc Ihe 
bud w.v I'-uiving on v moiK ..AiviPcs whuh constiUiied an 
ii.dusliv ,iikI Sliii Bhatt was miphivcd in Ih.' woik of .siipci 
vision of tile huikline of tile Irank . th.d vvoil was .in oidinaiv 
pail of thc'v.oik of 'he bank, th.il he was directly employed 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1753 


by the bank on its stuff ; paid saifiy from the bank, look 
oideis fiom the bank, woikc.l under the supcivision ..nd con- 
tiol of the bank and e'.eicised certain duties on behalf of 
the bank ; that this was part and paiecl of the activities of the 
b.ml; that the bank liad power lo constiuct oi to get cons¬ 
tructed buildings fm its own business 'and also the power to 
get tlie woik siipcivised by en.cagmg employees and lhat the 
applicant was, thcicfoic, employed in an industry, 

1 have all cai ' considcicd cnlier the objection of Slui N. J. 
Mehta However, I would piefer to deal wilh (his matter 
also on mmils in view ot the fact that all the evidence neces- 
sriiy foi Ihc purpose of the dt‘.eimination of this qucsiion is, 
in my opinion, on leeord J do not t.nnk it necessaiy for 
me to dc.al vvilh the Stale Bank of India Awl, 19.s,5, or its 
v'aiious provisions I'l dcl.ul. Section 32 and 33, iider nlifi, 
deal with the business which a Slate Bank may transact. 
Section 34(6) inlei alia is as follows.— 

“Save as othciwise pro.ided in section 33, thc^ State 
Bank shall not own oi acquire any interest in im- 
movt.blc piopeity ocept for the purpose oi provid¬ 
ing bniklings or other accommodation in which lo 
c.iriv on the b'jsincss of the St.ite Bank or for 
pioviJing ic'ideiices loi its ofTiccis and other emp¬ 
loyees : 

I’lovidcd that if any ,uch building or otlier accommod.i- 
Vion IS not immcdi.dely required for any of the 
purpose of the Slate Bank, the State Bank may 
utiliio it to the best advantage by letting it out or 
in any olher mannci ” 

Now. iheie :s not the sli.sbtest doubt that the State Bank is 
constituted for transacting various hufiinesvcs mentioned in 
Section 32 nnd 33 and lhat it can own and acquire interest 
in immovable piopcrtv for the purpose of pioviding actom- 
modati.m in which lo carry on the business of the State 
Bank. The Stale B.ink for the pnipose of carrying on^ its 
bus.ncss al various places would require accommodation, 
for Ihe purpose it may acquire buildings, build buildings 
extend its buildings or obtain accommodation on hiie. 
Wiilst Its main business will be banking all^ these .activi¬ 
ties in crvnne.'tion wilh .iccommodation icquired for the 
piiinose of banking would undoubtedly be activities inei- 
vlenlal to ils main business of banking activity I urn not 
hcicin c.iDed upon lo answer ihe question whether if the 
Stale Bank chose to build a building for the pm pose of 
pioviding accommoihuion in which to cany on the business 
of (he State B.ink, the same would be an industry under the 
Industrial ITispnfcs Act, 1947. In the present instance, the 
St,etc Bank has not chosen to build a building itself, but is 
buildirg the same thiough contiactoi.s. Bui the State Bank 
wanted accommodation for its business at Ahmcdabad For 
the purpose it chose to expand the existing picmises at Bhadra 
.aid chose to gel the woik done of extension of premises 
thiouvh conli.iclovs. Bui even it the work w..s done Ihrouglt cunt- 
luctois, II certain amount of supervision over the contractors 
was essenthsl op behalf of the Bank nnd for the pnipose it 
utilised the services of an archilect on the one hand and a 
cle; k-of-woiks on the other. T have not the slightest doubt 
that since the accommodation was rcquiicd for the banking 
business of Ihc .St.ile Bank and since even the consti uction 
of such building for b,inking business required some amount 
of supcivdsion ovei the execution of the woik, that would 
be woik incideulal to Ihc bmkinp i'usincss of the b.mk. A 
laigc niimhci of aiilhorilics have been cited by both sides 
but it is not necessaiy for me to biiidcn this aw'ard with all 
those aiitiioiitics There can now hiiidly be any doubt that 
persons employed in ■'ueb incidental activities would be 
peisoiio considered employed in the industry and any other 
view would lend to fantastic results. 

In the dispute between .1. K Cotton Spinning and Weav¬ 
ing Mills Comp.my, Lid, and T aboiir Appell.itc Ttihunal of 
fnitia and others (icporlcd in 1963 H, 1 LJ, p, 436) the 
quci-tion arose whether m.ilis employed for looking after 
icit.iin gardens aUached to Ihe bimgalows could be consi- 
deied to he employed in tlie industry Tn the said case, 10 
mails wcie appointed by the company for the maintenance 
of g.ndens attached lo the bungalows of some of the oliiceis 
■ tf the mills wliiih weie siUiatcd in Ihc compound of the 
niills while (iiheis weie employed for looking .iflcr the 
linden' .all,it hod lo Is.imla Niw'ns which is a icsidcntial 
1 uilding .illollcd lo the governing diieclor of the milks and 
which is also siluated wilhin Ihc compound of (he mills. 
Some of the malis had to wotk m (he g.iidcns attached to 
Ihc rcsidenlial hiiildiiig.s of the dircclor-in-chaigc of Ihc 



THE GyVZETTF, 01- INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


[Part II— 


1754 


niiJlii. The gardens which were looked after by these itinlig 
were not gardens attached to the mills as such. It Mpears 
that in the large and expansive colony of the mills, the factory 
of the mills was inside a compound. Outside this compound 
of the factory, but within the colony of the n ills. were 
situated the bungalows occupied by the officers of the mills 
and the director. It was these gardens attached to these 
bungalows that were looked after by the 10 malis. The 
mails were appointed by the company, A small amount 
was collected from the officers as a contribution to their 
salaries and the bulk of their salaries were paid by the 
companies. The contributions by the officers were credited 
ti) the revenues of the company and from the funds of the 
company the malis were paid their wages. The appointment 
of the malis was made by the company. Their work was 
supervised and controlled by the company and they were 
liable to be dismissed by the company. 

It was contended in this mutter that crucial words used 
in the definition prescribed by S. 2(s) are “employed in any 
industry;” that the industry consisted of spinning and weav¬ 
ing operations and the malis had obviously nothing to do 
with the spinning or weaving operations and they were not 
employed in the industry of the company and the fact that 
they were employed by the cornpany would not make them 
workmen under the Act. Dealing with this argument, the 
Supreme Court observed:— 

“Thus presented, the argument is no doubt priiiia fade 
attractive; but as soon as we begin to examine it 
more catefully, it breaks down. If the construc¬ 
tion for which Mr. Palhak contends is accepted 
without any modification, clerks employed in the 
factory would not be workman, because on the 
test suggested by Mr. Puthak, they are not emp¬ 
loyed in the spinning or weaving operation carried 
on by the appellant and yet, there is no doubt that 
clerks employed by the appellant to do clerical 
work are workman under S. 2(s), and so, the 
literal construction of the clause “employed in any 
industry” cannot be accepted and that means that 
“employed in any industi^" must take in emp¬ 
loyees who are employed in connection with opera¬ 
tions incidental to the main industry, and once we 
are compelled to introduce this concept of inci¬ 
dental connection with the main industry, the 
literal construction lot which the appellant con¬ 
tends has to be rejected. 

It is, of course, not very easy to decide what is the field 
of employment, included by the principle of inci¬ 
dental relationship, and what would be the limita¬ 
tions of the said principle. 1 f sweepers are emp¬ 
loyed by the appellant to clean the premises of the 
nulls, that clearly would be woik incidental to the 
main industiy itself, because though the work of 
the sweepers have no direct relation either with the 
spinning or weaving, it is so manifestly necessary 
for the efficient functioning of the industry Itself 
thtil it would be irrational to exclude sweepers 
from the purview of ,S. 2(8). If buses arc owned 
by the industry for transporting the workmen, 
would the drivers of such buses be workmen or 
not? ft would be noticed that the incidental con¬ 
nection in the present illustration is one degree re- 
juoved from the main industri; the workmen who 
work in the industry are intended to be brought to the 
factory by the buses and it is these buses that the 
drivers run. Even so, it would not be easy to ex¬ 
clude drivers of buses engaged by the factory 
solely for the purpose of transporting its employees 
to the mills from their respective homes and back, 
on the basis that they are not workmen under S. 
2(s). Mr. Puthak was unable to resist the exten¬ 
sion of the definition to such cases; but, nevertheless, 
he attempted to argue that though sweepers who 
sweep the premises of the factory may be called 
workman, sweepers who sweep the area around the 
factory may not he included under 5, 2ts). 
Sweeping the area outside the factory, it is argued, 
may be incidentally connected with the main in¬ 
dustry, but this incidental connection is indirect 
and 1 emote, and so, this class of employees must 
be excluded from the definition. We arc not pre- 
I'lared to accept this argument. In oui opinion, an 
employee who is engaged in any work or opera¬ 


tion which is incidentally connected with the main 
industry of the employer would be a workman pio- 
vided the other requirements ot S. 2 ( 3 ) arc satis¬ 
fied. 

In this connection, is it hardly necessary to emphasise 
that in the modern world industrial operations have 
become complex and complicated and for the 
efficient and successful functioning of any industry, 
several incidental operations are called in aid and 
it is the totality of all these operations that ulti¬ 
mately constitutes the industry as a whole. Wherc- 
ever it is shown that the industry has employed an 
employee to assist one or the other operation in¬ 
cidental to the main industrial operalioii, it would 
be unreasonable to deny such an employee the 
status of a workman on the ground that his work 
is not directly concerned with the main vrork or 
operation of the industry. Reverting to the illust¬ 
ration of the buses owned by the factory for the 
purposes of transporting its workmen, if the bus 
drivers can legitimately be held to assist an opera- 
lion incidenlal to the main work of the industiy. 
wc do not sec why a mali should not claim that he 
is also engaged in an operation which is incidental 
to the main industry. 

While we are dealing with this point, it is necessary to 
bear in mind-that the bungalows are owned by the 
appellant and they are allotted to the officers as 
rcquiicd by the terms and conditions ot the ofiicers’ 
employment. Since the bungalows are allotted to 
the omcers, it is the duty of the appellant to look 
after the bungalows and take care of the gardens 
attached to them. If the terms and conditions of 
service require that the officers should be given 
bungalows and gardens arc attached to such bun¬ 
galows, it is dillicult to see why in the case of 
malis who are employed by the appellant, arc paid 
by it, and who work subject to its control and 
supervision and discharge the function of looking 
after the appellant's property, it should be said that 
the work done by them has no relation with the 
industry carried on by the appellant. The emp¬ 
loyment is by the appellant, the payment is subs¬ 
tantially by the appellant, the continuance of ser¬ 
vice depends upon the pleasure of the appellant, the 
conditions of service are determined by the 
appellant, subject, of course, to the standing ord¬ 
ers prescribed in that behalf, and the work assign¬ 
ed to the malis is the work of looking after the 
properties which have been allotted to the officers 
of the appellant, Tike the transport amenity pro¬ 
vided by a factory to its employees, bungalows 
and gardens are also a kind of amenity supplied 
by the employer to his ofiicers and the drivers who 
look after the buses and the malis who look altei 
the gardens must, therefore, be held to be e’.igagcd 
in operations which arc incidentally connected with 
the main industry cairied on by the employer. It 
is true that in matters of this kind it is not easy 
to draw a line, and it may also be conceded that 
in dealing with the question of incidental relation¬ 
ship with the main industrial operation, a limit has 
to be prescribed so as to exclude operations or acti¬ 
vities whose lelntioii with the main industrial 
activity may be remote, indirect and far-fetched. 
We are not prepared to hold that the relation of 
the work carried on by the malis in the present 
case can be characterized as remote, indirect or 
far-fetched. That is why we think that the laboiit 
Appellate Tribunal was right in coming to the con¬ 
clusion that malis arc workmen under the Act ’. 

This decision has been followed by the Supreme Court in 
a number of other decisions us also in a recent decision in 
the case of the .Munedabad Mfg. & Calico I’fg. Co. Ltd. 
and Ram Tuhel Rainanand and others (reported in 1972), 
11, LIT, p. 16.^), I have no doubt that Shri Bhatl was emp¬ 
loyed in one of the incidental duties connected with the 
industry of banking which was the main activity of the Slate 
Bank and was employed in the industry. It was .admitted 
by Shri G. G. Mehta that the answer to these two questions 
which I h.ive dealt with answer all other questions raised 
by him in the preliminary point which is on record. The 
Preliminary points raised by Shri G. G, Mcbia aie, Iheie- 
forc, overruled. 




1755 


HIE GAZETTE OF INDIA; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1«9S 


Sec. 3(ii) ] 


I shall now deal wilh llie merits of the demand. The 
disptite tha( is referred to my adjudication is whether the 
action of the management of the State Bank of India, 
Bhadia, Ahmedabad, was jiistifled in terminating the services 
of Shri A, R, Bhatt, elerk-of-works, with effect from 7th 
December, 1968, and, if not, to what relief is he entitled. 
However, in order lo fully appreciate the circumstances under 
Vi'hich Shri Bhatt’s services came to be terminated, it would 
be necessary to narrate a few facts and circumstances in 
brief that happened durine the course of his employment. 
It appeals that Shri A. R. Bhatt is a B.E. (Civil) of the 
Gujaiat University having taken his degree in the year 1961. 
11 appears some time in 1963 there appeared in the Times 
of India an advertisement for the State Bank of India for 
the post of elerk-of-works. After being interviewed, Shri 
Bhatt was given an appointment letter by the architect, 
Shri Hasmukh C. Patel on 14th May, 1963, IPx, C/3(3)] 
aiipoinling him as a elerk-of-works for the above referred 
to project, i.c., as a elerk-of-works for an extension to State 
Bank of India, Bhadra, on behalf of the State Bank of 
India on a consolidated salary of Rs. 375/- per month. A 
letter, dated 18th August, 1964, was addressed by Shri 
A. R. Bhatt to Shri K, H. Desai, State Bank of India, Cen- 
tra.l Office, Bombay, enquiring whether since he had applied 
against the advertisement of the State Bank of India and as 
interview was also taken by the Agent along with the Archi¬ 
tect and as the architect has given him an appointment 
Older on behalf of the State Bank, he was an employee of 
the State Bank or the Architect. It also, inter alia, pointed 
out that he had to work on Sundays and holidays and had 
also to woik often late upto 1-30 p. m. and at night also 
and that he had put up the overtime amounting to 4CK) 
hours including Sundays and holidays, He had also asked 
for certain increments, leave, bonus and a number of other 
things which arc not relevant and sought certain clarifica¬ 
tions, It appears that objection was taken to his direct re¬ 
presentation and Shri H, C. Patel called Shri A. R. Bhatt 
and explained the position to him verbally. A letter was 
also addressed to the Agent of the State B;uik by Shri H. C. 
Patel, the architect, regarding Shri Bhatt [Hx, C/3(6)]. By 
their letter, dated 19th OcteJber, 1964, flix. C/3(7)], Shri 
D. S. Herwathe, the agent of the Bank, inter alia, informed 
Shri Bhatt as follows:— 

“We have been advised by our Bombay Head Office 
that they have now decided to appoint you on the 
Bank’s staff with effect from the 1st October, 1964 
ou an all inclusive salary of Rs. 475 per month (not 
entitled to any superannuation benefits, overtime 
or bonus). It should be definitely understood that the 
appointment is purely temporary and will be conti¬ 
nued for the duration of the present extension of 
the building. It will also be subject to termination 
on one month’s notice from either side." 

By his letter, dated 18th December, 1964, (tx, C-12) address¬ 
ed to Shri H. C. Patel, Shri Bhatt accepted the proposals and 
the said acceptance was communicated by Shri H. C. Patel, 
the architect, by his letter, dated 18th December, 1964, (Ex. 
C-J3). Jt, however, appears that though Shri Bhatt had 
accepted the offer of the company and accepted the appoint¬ 
ment, he was in fact not satisfied with the terms and condi-, 
Imns of the appointment. 1 shall only indicate a few of 
them. The working hours of all bank employees, other than 
.srbordinafe staff, were 36. Shri Bhatt was required to 
work 48 hours in a week. The bank employees were given 
leave as per what is known as Shastri Award in respect of bank 
employees as subsequently revised by the Desai Award in 
respect of bank employees. Shri Bhatt, however, was to 
start with not given any leave whatsoever, neither under the 
Shastri Award nor under Desai Award, nor even as per the 
Shops & Establishments Act. The bank employees weie paid 
overtime as per Shastri-cu/ii-Desai Award after 36 hours of 
working. Shii Bhatt was not paid any overtime either under 
Shastri Award or under Desai Award or even as per the 
Shops &. Establishments Act. The bank employees were 
paid certain amount of bonus. Shri Bhatt was not paid 
any bonus whatsoever. The bank employees were given 
certain medical benefits, but Shri Bhatt wa.s not given any 
bent fit. There were a certain number of agreements regai'd- 
ina permanency of temporary employees. By and large this 
provided for a temporary worker being made permanent 
after about 9 months. ,Shri Bhatt was treated as temporary, 
having been appointed on a temporary job. Shri Bhatt was 
not considered entitled lo any annual increment. The letter 
of the bank, inter alia, stated that he was being appointed 
on bank’s staff. Shri Bhatt deduced from this that he 
would he entitled to all the benefits that would be given to 
dll other bank staff as per the Shastri Award. The bank, 


however, was of the view that the Shastri-enm-Desai Award 
in terms did not apply to temporary or casual workers like 
Shri Bhall. Considerable correspondence casued about a 
year after his appointment in regard to some of these topics, 
some part of which is produced and is on record. Shri 
Bhatt tried lo persuade the bank to extend some of these 
benefits to him and the bank categorically stuck to its stand 
that he was not entitled to any of those benefits, 

■TTc bank by its letter, dated 22nd I'ebjuary, 1966, [Ex. 
C/19p2)J informed Shii Bhatt that the bank had decided 
lo raise his consolidated salaiy from Rs. 475 to Rs. 500 per 
mensem with effect from 1st January, 1966, provided he 
agreed to the terms mentioned in the letter. The letter made 
it clear that he would not be entitled to any superannuation 
benefits, overtime or bonus; that the salaiy offered was all 
inclusive; that the appointment was purely temporary; that 
he would not be entitled to annual incremenLs m salary or 
benefits or leave according to the bank rules. The letter 
further made it clear that the appointment was lor the 
duration of the present extension of the building subject to 
the termination by the other side on giving one month’s 
notice. 

It appears that even if the Shastri or Desai Award did 
not apply to Shri Bhatt, in any event, under the Shops and 
Establishments Act the Bank was legally bound to give to 
Shri Bhatt leave as per the piovisioms of the Act. The 
Bank, however, under some misapprehension refused to give 
any leave to Shri Bhatt. The Shops & Establishments Offi¬ 
cer visited the Bank on 20th April, 1966, to make enquiries 
and check certain records. As the register of hours of work 
and register for leave with salary in respect of Shri Bhatt 
for the period from Ist October, 1964, to 19th April, 1966, 
were not available and as Shri Bhatt was not provided with 
leave with salary book duly filled in, a complaint was lodged 
in the Court of City Magistrate, Ahmcdabad, against the 
Bank. A summons w'as also issued by Ihe City Magistrate’s 
Court, Aiunedababd, requiring the Chief Accountant to 
appear before the Court, It also appears from the letter 
written by the secretary and treasurer of the Bank to the 
head office that at one stage the magistrate indicated his un¬ 
willingness to permit the withdrawal of the case as he had 
received information to the effect that the bank was going 
to victimise Shri A. R. Bhatt in view of the complaint lodged 
by him. However, the complaint was ultimately permitted 
to be withdrawn and Shri Bhatt was given leave as per the 
Shops & Establishments Act. It also appears that though at 
one time no bonus was paid lo Shri Bhatt, subsequently the 
Bank realised that it was bound to pay bonus under the 
Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, to Shri Bhatt and the same 
was also paid. 

The offer of increase of salary from Rs. 475 to Rs. 500, 
however, was subsequently withdrawn by the Bank by their 
letter, dated 22nd June, 1966. Shri bhatt had become a 
member of the Bank’s union and Shri Bhatt’s case was taken 
up by the union who also wjote to the bank in connection 
with Shri Bhatt. Conciliation proceedings started but during 
the conciliation proceedings the bank did not budge from 
its position and turned down several offera of settlement 
made. The Conciliator submitted his failure report to the 
Government. It may also be mentioned that in the mean¬ 
while in the year 1967 the Bank wanted a clerk-of-works 
for its Baroda branch. The post was ad\crtiscd for which 
Shri Bhatt applied. Although a number of persons were 
called for interview, Shri Bhatt was not one of them. As 
the persons who were intei'viewed were not found satisfac¬ 
tory, the Bank subsequently appointed one Krishna Murthy 
as clerk-of-works on a salary of Rs, 800, Before the failure 
report was submitted by the conciliator on 18th March, 
1968, the offer to refer the dispute to arbitration was accept¬ 
ed by the union on behalf of Shri Bhatt but turned down 
by the bank. By their letter, dated 24th August, 1968, the 
Government of India informed the union that they did not 
consider the dispute fit for reference to an industrial tribunal 
for adjudication as, in their opinion, the action of the 
management did not appear to be unjustified. A writ peti¬ 
tion against the Union of India for issuing a writ of man¬ 
damus or any other appropriate writ under Article 226 of the 
Constitution of India was filed before the High Court of 
Gujarat by Shri Bhatt in November, 1968. By their letter, 
dated 7th December, 1968, [Ex. C/3 (161] the Bank inform¬ 
ed Shri Bhatt, inter alia, as follows;-— 

“We refer to our letter No, CA/ASM/6477, dated the 
22nd February, 1966, in terms of which you 
were appointed as a temporary clerk-of-works. As 
you were engaged on a pui’cly temporary basis and 




1756 THE GAZETTE OI' INDIA: MAY 5. 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part li¬ 


as youi' services ait- no longoi n'tiuircd, you :iic 
herchv intormcjd llial your ssiviccs are terminated 
with inimodiate cftecl ’ 

(t is this order oj let minatioii which is the subject matter 
of dispute in this proceeding. 

The true legal position about the jurisdiction of Industrial 
"liibiinal in dealing with cases of this kind is no longer in 
.loubt. The powers of the industrial tribunal first came 
to be consideied by the Labour .Appellate TW- 
bunal in the disjiute between the Buckingham & 
Carnatic Mills T.td., .tnd Their Workers (reported in 
1951, II, LIT, p. 314). In para 8, their lordships ob¬ 
served:— 

"In the case before us, the standing order provides for 
three types of cases in which the services of an 
employee cun be terminated, namely, (1) automatic 
termination for absence without leave for a stated 
period, or for overstaying leave without satisfactory 
etplanation; (2) discharge on notice or in lieu there¬ 
of payment of wages for a certain period without 
assigning any reason and (3) dismissal for mis¬ 
conduct. In cases where the ground alleged by the 
employer is misconduct, rules of procedure to be 
followed before the order of dismissal is passed 
are also laid down in the standing orders. In our 
opinion these three types have to he considered 
separately, In all these types, the requirement of 
honaiides is essential. The termination of service 
in colourable exercise of the powei' or as a result 
of victimisation or unfair labour practice or of 
cap^’ice, should be prevented, as otherwise some 
of the fundamental rights and principles which we 
have noticed above would be violated. Arbitrary 
conduct or unnecessary harshness on the part of 
the employer, judged by the normal standard of a 
reasonable man, nia\ bo cogent evidence of victi¬ 
misation or unfair labour practice”. 

‘Tn the first type of cases our view is that an indus¬ 
trial tribunal would be at liberty to examine the 
explanation offered by the employee for his absenre 
and other circumstances also for the purpose.s of 
seeing whether the employer acted with an honest 
purpose. In the second type of cases, even when 
the standing order authorises discharge on notiee 
without assi^mcnt of reason the scope of enquiry 
would be similar." 

In Chartered Rank, Bombay, and Chartered Bunk Employees 
Union and another (reported in 1960, 11, LLJ, p. 222 at p. 
226) their Lordships of the Supreme Court observed n-s 
follows:— 

“In Biickingbam and Camatic Company, Ltd., etc. v. 
workers of the company, etc. (1951-TI L.L.I, 314). 
the Labour Appellate Tribunal had occasion to 
consider this matter relating to discharge by notice 
or in lieu thereof by payment of wages for a 
certain period without assigning any reason. It 
Was of opinion that even in a case of this kind the 
requirement of bona tides is essential and if the 
termination of service is a colourable exercise of 
the power or as a result of victimization or un¬ 
fair labour practice the industrial tribunal would 
have the liuisdiclion to intervene and set aside such 
termination. Further it held that where the termi¬ 
nation of service is c.ipricious, arbitrary or unneces¬ 
sarily hiush on the part of the employer judged 
by normal standards of a reasonable man, that may 
be cogent evidence of victimization or unfair labour 
practice. We are of opinion that this correctly lays 
dowm the scone of the power of the tribunal to 
interfere where service is terminated simpliciter 
under the provisions of a contract or of standing 
orders or of some award like the Bank award. In 
order to judge this, the tribunal will have to go 
into all the circumstances which led to the termi¬ 
nation simpliciter and an employer cannot say that 
it is not bound to disclose the circumstances before 
the tribunal. The form of the order of termination 
Is not conclusive of the true nature of the order, 
for it is possible that the fotm may be merely a 
comouflage for an older of dismissal for miscon- 
duef II is theicfoic, always onen to the ’ribunal 
to go behind the form and look at the substance; 
and if it comes to the conclusion, for example, 
that though in foim Ihc O’der amounts to 
termination simpliciter it in reality cloaks a dis¬ 


missal for misconduct, it will be open to it to set 
it aside as a colourable exercise of the power”. 

In U. B. Dutt & Co. (Private) Ltd. and its workman (re¬ 
ported in 1962, I, LLJ, p. 374), the claim that was put 
forward on behalf of the company was that it was entitled 
under mlc If.la) of Ihe standing order; which was a term 
ol contract between the appellant and its employees to dis¬ 
pense with the services of any employee at any time by 
liisL giving 14 days' notice or paying 12 days’ wages. DeaT 
iug with this conteuJion, their Lordships observed.— 

“We arc of opinion that this claim of the appellant 
cannot be accepted, and it is too late in the day 
for an employer to raise such a claim, for it 
amounts to a claim “to hire and fire” an employee 
as the employer pleases and thus completely nega¬ 
tives security of service which has been secured 
to industrial employees tjirough industrial adjudi¬ 
cation for over a long period of time now. As far 
back as 1952, the Labour Appellate Tribunal had 
occasion to consider this matter relating to dis¬ 
charge by notice or in lieu thereof by payment of 
wages for a certain period without assigning any 
reason: (See Buckingham and Carnatic Co., Ltd., 
etc. v. Workers of the company, etc. (1951-11 L.L,.J, 
314). It wa.s of opimon that even in a case of this 
kind, the requirement of bona lides is essential 
and if the termination of service is a colourable 
exercise of the power or as a result of victimiza¬ 
tion or unfair labour practice, the industrial tri¬ 
bunal would have the jurisdiction to intervene and 
set aside such termination. Further it held that 
where the termination of service is capricious, 
arbitrary or unnecessarily hai-sh on the part of 
the employer judged by normal standards of a 
rcfisonable man, that may be cogent evidence of 
victimization or unfair labour practice. These 
observations of the Labour Appellate Tribunal were 
approved by this Court in Chartered Bank, Bombay 
v, Chartered Bank Employees’ Union (1960-11 L.L.I. 
222) and Assam Oil Company v. Its workmen 
(1960-1 L.L.J. 587). Therefore if, as in this case, 
the employer wanted to take action for miscon¬ 
duct and then suddenly dropped the departmental 
proceedings which were intended to be held and 
decided to discharge the employee under rule lR(a) 
of the standing orders, it was clearly a colourable 
exercise of the power under that rule inasmuch 
as that rule was used to get rid of an employee 
instead of following the course of holding an in¬ 
quiry for misconduct, notice for which had been 
given to the employee and for which a departmental 
inquiry was intended to be held.” 

“Learned counsel for the appellant, however, urges mat 
the employer was empowered to take action under 
rule 18(a) of the standing orders and having taken 
action under that rule, there was nothing for it to 
justify before the tiibunal We have already said 
that this position cannot be accepted in industrial 
adjudication relating to terminalion of service of 
an employee and has not been accepted by indus¬ 
trial tribunals over a long course of years now 
and the view taken by industrial tribunals has been 
upheld by this Court in the two cases referred to 
above. Learned counsel for the appellant, how¬ 
ever, relies on the decision of this Court in 
Parsholam Lai Dhingia v. Union of India (19.58-1 
1 .L.I. 544). That was, however, a case of a public 
servant and the considerations that apply to such 
a case are in our opinion entirely different. Sliesi 
was laid by the learned counsel on the obscivations 
at n 561 where it was observed as follows. 

“It is true that the misconduct, negligence, inefficiency 
or other disqualification may be the motive or in¬ 
ducing factor which influences the Government to 
take action under the terms of the contract of 
employment or the specific service rule, ncvcrlhe- 
less, if a righl exists, under the contract or (he 
rules, to terminate the .service, the motive operat¬ 
ing on the mind of the Government is, as CliHgl.i, 

C, .1., has said ip Srinivas Ganesh v Union of 
India (1957-11 L.T.J. 189) (supra), wholly irrele¬ 
vant”. 

“It is urged that Ihc same principle should be applied 
to industrial adjudication. It is enough to say that 
the position of Government servants stands on an 




Sec. 3(ii) ] 


1757 


/HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 189? 


entirely different fooling ns compared to industrial 
employees. Article 310 and 311 of the Constitu¬ 
tion apply to Government servants and it is in the 
light or these articles read with the rules framed 
under Art. 308 that questions relating to termina¬ 
tion of service of Government servants have to be 
considered. No such constitutional provisions have 
to be considered when one is dealing with industrial 
employees. Further an employer cannot now press 
his tight purely on contract and say that under 
the contract he has imfattered right “to hire and 
fire” his employees. That right is now subject to 
industrial adjudication and even a power like that 
granted by rule 18(a) of the standing orders in 
this case, is subject to the scrutiny of industrial 
courts in the manner indicated above. The ap¬ 
pellant, therefore, cannot rest its case merely on 
rule 18(a) and say that having acted under that 
rule, there is nothing more to be said and that the 
industrial court cannot inquire into the causes that 
led to the termination of service under rule 18(a). 
The industrial court in our opinion has the right 
to inquire into the causes that might have led to 
termination of service even under a rule like 18(a) 
and if it is satisfied that the action taken under 
such a rule was a colourable exercise of power 
and was not bona fide or was a result of victimiza¬ 
tion or unfair labour practice, it would have jurisdic¬ 
tion to intervene and set aside such termination 

n 


This decision in terms lays down that there is considerable 
difference in the case of a public servant and others and 
the considerations that apply in the case of public servants 
are entirely different and whilst the motive or inducing 
factor which operated on the mind of the Government may 
he irrelevant in the case of the Government servapts, that 
would not bo so in the case of industrial adjudication. The 
same law again is restated in the Tata Oil Mills Co. Ltd. 
versus their workmen (reported in 1966, II, LLJ, at page 
602), which is as follows.— 

‘The true legal position about the industrial court’s 
jurisdiction and authority in dealing with cases of 
this b'nd is no longer in doubt. It is true that in 
several cases contracts of employment or provisions 
in standing orders authorize an industrial employer 
to terminate the services of his employees after 
giving notice for one month or paying salary for 
one month In lieu of notice, and normally, an 
employer may, in a proper case, bo entitled to 
exercise the said power. But, where an order of 
discharge passed by an employer gives rise to an 
industrial dispute, the form of the order by which 
the employee’s services are terminated, would not 
be decisive; Industrial adjudication would be en¬ 
titled to examine the substance of the matter and 
decide whether the termination Is in fact discharge 
slmpllclter or it amounts to dismissal which has 
put on the cloak of a discharge simpllciter. If 
the industjial court is satisfied that the order of 
discharge is punitive, that it is mala fide, or that 
it amounts to victimization or unfair labour practice, 
it Is competent to the industrial couit to set aside 
the order and, in a proper case direct the reinstate¬ 
ment of the employees". 

The law laid down in the case of the Workmen of Sudder 
Office, Cinnamarn, and The Management of Sudder Office 
and another, (rgiorted In 1971, IT, LLJ, p. 620) relied upon 
by Shrl G. O. Mehta, does not, in my opinion, in any wav 
modify the earlier rulings but reiterates the principles laid 
down therein. As pointed out by their Lordships in thrir 
decision in para (25).— 

“We will now proceed to consider whether the order 
of termination in the case before us is one of flim- 
plldter under the provisions of the standing orders 
or whether it is really an order of dismissal for 
misconduct. We will be emphasising in due 

course that even the Labour Court which held In 
favour of the workman has not recorded any 
finding that the action of the management In 
terminating the services of Ihe workman was mala 
file or amounted to unfair labour practice or was 
a case of victimisation”, 

11 G of 1/73—9 


A very large number of decisions have been cited by both 
sides as to (he jurisdiction of this Tribunal. However, m 
rny opinion, the few decisions referred to earlier clearly 

lay down the law on this subject and it Is not necessary 
for me to deal with all those decisions. It is in the li^t 
of the principles laid down in this decision that I shall 

consider whether the order of discharge passed on 7th 

December, 1968, was justified. The order of discharge, 

inter alia, states as follows :— 

“.As you were engaged on a purely tempo¬ 

rary basis and as your services are no longer re¬ 
quired you are hereby Informed that your services 

are terminated with immediate effect." 

Ihe order purports to suggest that he la discharged because 
he is temporal V and his services are no longer required. It 
has been submitted that the services of the opponent have 
been terminated in accordance with the terms of the conrtact 
which give ihe right to the bank to terminate his services 
on giving 30 days^ notice. The Bank has further submitted 
that his appointment was for the first phase of construction 
which was by then completed; that he was, therefore, no 
longer required and his services were, therefore, terminated. 
Although a good deal of effort has been made in the be^iu- 
ing to show that he was appointed for the first phase; that 
that phase was over and, therefore, his services were termi¬ 
nated, in the evidence given by the Law Officer, the ground 
mentioned has been as follows.— 

“.Certain demands were made by Mr. Bhatt. 

The Bank was not agreeable to concede those de¬ 
mands. The Chairman therefore put it to me that 
since there was no meeting point between our Adm. 
Deptt. and Mr. Bhatt, could we not oblige him by 
terminating his services. There was no question 
of mala fiden. I told the Chairman that so long 
as there was no question of mala fidet, there 
could be no objection to termination of his ser¬ 
vices.” 

There thus appear to me two sets of reasons suggested for 
termination of his services; (1) that he was appointed for 
the first phase of construction work which was over aud 
therefore his services were no longer required and (2) that 
his services were terminated because there was no meeting 
point between his demands and the bank. Although these 
two points have been suggested in the written statement 
and have been argued at some length, the first point has 
ptactically been given up. However, I shall deal with it 
very briefly. 

It has been suggested that Shri Bhatt was appointed for 
the first phase of construction work. In support of this 
contention it has been submitted that at the time of his 
appointment in October, 1964, no final decision was taken 
regarding construction beyond the first phase and, therefore, 
his appointment must be deemed to be only regarding the 
first phase. 1 am not inclined to agree with this suggestion 
at all. The letter of appointment, dated 19th October, 
1964, inter alia, states as follows 

".It should be definitely understood that the 

appointment is purely temporary and will be conti¬ 
nued for the duration of the present extension of 
the building....” 

His appointment is, therefore, for the present extension of 
building and not for any particular phase thereof. There is 
no doubt that at the time this appointment was made, the 
picture of the whole extension or the building was before 
them. In a letter, dated 4th June, 1964, addressed to the 
Municipal Commissioner by the Agent at Ahmedabad, they 
have, inter alia, stated as follows.— 

“Wo have to advise that the State Bank of India con¬ 
template opening a new Local Head Office at Ahme¬ 
dabad to meet the growing need of the Industry and 
public In the Gujarat area. To house the Local 
Head Office having various departments, we need a 
bigger building and we send herewith plans of a 
multi-storeyed buildings submitted by the Bank’s 
Architect, Shrl Hasmukh C. Patel.” 

The plan is attached thereto and the plan is for all the 
phases. It is clear from this letter that what was contemp¬ 
lated at the time was a multi-storeyed building aa per the plan 
attached which included all the phases and not only the 









1758 


THE GAZETTJ-, OF /MDJA : MAY 5, 


first phase as is soupht to be made out. At the date it 
appears from the evidence on record that estimates of the 
requirements of various materials ■were also taken from the 
aichitcct and were before them. It is true that the financial 
sanction in terms of money for extention was taken much 
after his appointment, but there undoubtedly is a difleience 
between taking a decision for extension and obtaining sane- 
tion of money for various phases. 1 have no doubt that if 
the idea was to appoint Shri Bhatt only for the fiist phase 
the language used m the letter of appointment in view of 
the preparation made at that time for building a multi- 
storeyed building would have been different. It is not 
denied that the first phase of the construction to the ex¬ 
tent it was possible in view of the enlargement of the 
scheme was over considerable time before the discharge of 
Shri Bhatt. At the time Shri Bhatt was discharged, it lui- 
pcars from the evidence that not only a good part of the 
second but even some part of the third phase was in pro- 
gicss. If Shn Bhatt’s appointment was only for the first 
phase, furthei orders for his continuance would have been 
sought from the head office. In none of the correspondence 
pioduced has there been a suggestion that the phase for 
which Shri Bhatt was appointed has been completed. In 
this connection the letter, dated 26th November, 1968, (hx. 
C/20(8)), marked private and confidential, written to Shii 
Varma by Shii E. M. Cohen, is also relevant. In the said 
letter produced at the instance of the union, it has been 
inter alia stated as follows.— 

“According to the advice given by the Solicitors, the 
Bank could follow this course. If we do so, how¬ 
ever, it is not unlikely that Shri Bhatt would dis- 
ute the termination especially as he has now the 
acklng of the Union and work for which he was 
engaged is still in progress". 

This letter written by Shri H. M. Cohen who was in cnarge 
of the Ahmedabad branch gives the lie to the submission 
sought to be made out in the written statement of the 
company. It has practically been given a go-by by the Law 
Officer who was examined because he has categoiically 
stated In his evidence that the dominant reason for termi¬ 
nating his services was that thare was no meeting point 
between his demands and the hank’s service conditions: that 
he was not aware when the first phase of con.struction was 
completed and that at the time the decision was Liken, 
the question whether the work for which he was employed 
was completed or not was not considered. He has further 
stated that he was not aware of the position regarding the 
work of construction of building at Ahmedabad. Tt also 
appears from the evidence of Shri Bhatt that part of the 
first phase has still not been comuleted and possibly will 
not be completed without completing the other pnasci 
This aspect, therefore, does not require any further consi¬ 
deration. However, I have referred to it only because it 
throws some light on the approach of the bank and the 
extent to which it is prepared_ to go to make out a case 
of discharge of this one individual, 

I shall now deal with the other ground suggested for the 
discharge that Shri Bhatt was discharged because there was 
no meeting point between the demand and the service con¬ 
ditions of the bank, This appears to be undoubtedly the 
true reason of the discharge. The Law Officer has elaboiated 
this in his evidence as follows.-— 

“I was consulted by the Bank whether In view of all 
the circumstances, his service is to be terminated 
T do not remember the exact point of time when 
I was so consulted, But I po.sitively remember 
that the then chairman Shii Dahijia did consult 
me. I was also consulted regarding .some claims 
made by Mr. Bhatt regarding leave salary, over¬ 
time, etc. Certain demands were made by Mr 
Bhatt. The Bank wa.s not agreeable to concede 
those demands. The Chairman therefore put it to 
me that since there was no meeting point between 
our Adm. Deptt. and Mr. Bhatt, could we nof 
oblige him by terminating his services. There wa.s 
no question of mala fi/Jes. I told the Chairman 
that so long as there was no question of mala 
fidef, there could be no objection to termination 
of his services.” 

He has categorically stated that his services were not termi¬ 
nated because of any dissatisfaction with his work. He has 
admitted further as follows.-— 


1973/VATSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


".It is true that a large number of demands 

reg.arding service conditions have been made by 
workmen, to which it is not possible for ns to 
agree. We do not terminate their services because 
we do not agree to their demands, because we have 
to run the Bank. These are however collective 
demands. When a demand relates to a particdlar 
individual and where the terms of conlrnct are 
not agreeable we do not retain him in service. ...” 

The whole tenor of the evidence of the I aw Officer who Is 
the only witness examined by the Bank is that Shri Bhatf's 
services were terminated because there was no meeting point 
between the demands of Shri Bhatt and the bank’s desire to 
meet them; lhal at the time the decision was taken the 
question whellier the work for which he was employed 
or not was not considered; that his services were not ternii- 
nated because of any dissatisfaction wilh his work, He 
admits that they do not terminate the services of the woik- 
mcn. He admits that there are large number of demands 
regarding service conditions of workmen to which they do 
not agree and still they do not terminate their services. 
The difference in this case has been, according to the Law 
(Iflicer, because the demand related to a particular individual 
and he did not agree and while others were collective de- 
ninnds. The Law Officer even does not know who has been 
subsequently engaged after Shri Bhatt's discharge and who 
is working today. The order of discharge in terms states 
that his services arc terminated because his services are no 
longer required. It does not appear that the work on which 
he was employed was completed and his rerviccs were no 
longer required on that account. His services were termi¬ 
nated because the bank did not want to concede the demand 
of Shri Bhatt, It appears to me that per se on evidence 
of Law Officer the order of discharge passed on Shri Bhatt 
was mala fide and deserves to be queshed and docs not 
require any further consideration whatsoever. It is true 
that under the terms of appointment of Shri Bhatt he W'as 
appointed as temporaly and a certain salary was fixed. It 
is also true that notwithstanding this letter of appointment 
Shri A. R. Bhatt wanted revision of his salary and other 
terms and conditions of his employment and also wanted to 
be made permanent. All the persons employed by the bank 
who were w'orkmen under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, 
were goveined by the terms and conditions laid down by 
the Desai Award. Shri Bhatt who was anointed by the 
hank on what the bank calls the bank stall, was deprived 
of those terms and conditions of service available to almost 
nil the employees of the bank at Ahmedabad who were 
workmen with the possible exception of Shri Bhatt. The 
working hours of all of them were thirty six, whereas those 
of Shri Bhall were 48. There was also other type of dis¬ 
crimination in his service conditions on some score. Shri 
Bhatt desired to be treated on par with other workers. Was 
there anything unusual or unnatural in what he desired. 
In fact, the bank at one time went to the length of denjing 
him leave even under the Shops & Establishments Act. The 
bank even tried to deprive him of bonus, a statutory obliga¬ 
tion cast on the bank. Sbri Bhatt claimed to be a work¬ 
man under the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. His demands 
weie undoubtedly demands similar to those made every day 
by the workman He was a member of the union and 
union rightly look up his cause and the demand constituted 
when refused what would be called an industrial dispute, 
Whether it relates to a single workman or large number of 
workmen, once (he body of workmen take up a dispute. It 
becomes an industrial dispute. Tbc law of the land has 
pre.scribcd a machinery for the investigation and settlement 
of industrial disputes. It was open to the bank to have re¬ 
course to tills machinery set up by law for the scttlernent 
of industrial disputes. Shri Bhatt offered to go to arbitra¬ 
tion for the purpose of resolving this dispute but instead 
of agreeing to arbitration or for joint reference under Sec¬ 
tion 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the bank 
look up a negative attitude throughout and' discharged the 
worker for making demands which he had every right to 
make and to persuc them in a legal and legitimate manner. 
The action of the bank, therefore, in discharging him 
because there was no meeting point, in my opinion, is per 
xe mala fide and also amounts to unfair labour practice 
and victimisation. However, I shall also deal with the other 
material on lecord to show that the action of the bank was 
in this case mala fide. 

Tt appears that the State Bank of India which under the 
Awards of ^I'i Shastri and Shri Desai was made to pay com¬ 
paratively generous wages and salaries to all its employees 




Sec, 3(ii) ] 


1759 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


covered by the award, had no fixed policy regarding the 
payment of wages to the clerk-of-works. It tried to secure 
their services as and when required on such rales as it was 
possible and paid varying rates at different times and at 
different places and gave them different services conditions. 
That this is so is very apparent from the information (he 
Bank had been compelled to give during the course of 
hearing which is Ex. C/19(20), According to the same, 
persons appointed as clerk-of-works in various places by 
the Bank at various times were paid as follows:— 


Name Salary on Date 

Appointment 
(All inclusive 
per month 

Rupees. 


Sr. Circle 
No. 


I. 

Delhi 

Shri 

Diwanchand 

450/- 

30-5-1964 

2. 

Delhi 

Shri 

F. D. Kevalramani 600/- 

25-6-1965 

3. 

Delhi 

Shri 

R.C, Jain 

650/- 

25-8-196^ 

4. 

Delhi 

Shri 

J. s. 

Khera 

e.-^o/- 

23-2-1967 

5, 

Bombay 

Shri 

R. G. 

Sule 

450/- 

.31-8-1965 

6. 

Central 

Shn 

M. H. 

Jain 

1,400/- 

1-12-196, 


Office 






7. 

Central 

Shri 

A. R. 

Bhandc 450/- 



Office 




with increment 

1-9-1970 






of Rs. 50/-p.a. 


8 . 

Ahmedabad 







Shri N. Krishnamurlhy 800/- 

28-10-1967 


Shri Bhatt, according to this exhibit was started on one of 
the lowest salaries paid by the bank and the bank even refus¬ 
ed to give him bonus and leave which it was bound to give even 
under the statutes and gave the same benefits to him at least 
in re.spect of leave after a criminal complaint was lodged. As 
early as on 25th May, 1966, Shri R. N, Chattur wrote to 
Shri S. G. Sheth, the State Bank of Ahmedabad, inter alia, as 
follows,— 

"We observe from our records that the salary of Rs. 475 
per mensem paid to Shri A,R. Bhatt, Clerk-of-Works 
is on the high side as compared with those payable 
to the clerk-of-works in Bombay Circle. We, there¬ 
fore, consider that it should be possible for you to 
secure the services of another person on a salary 
ranging from Rs. 400 to 450 per mensem. Please 
therefore, arrange to terminate Shri Bhatt's services 
by giving him one month's notice and submit your 
recommendations for the appointment of another 
Clerk-of-works in his place." [Ex. C/20(5)]. 

On 21st June, 1966, Shri S. G, Sheth informed Shri Chet- 
tur [Ex. C/20(2)] that they were arranging in consultation 
with the bank's architect to appoint another clerk-of-works 
within the salary range indicated and to terminate the services 
of Shri Bhatt by giving him one month's notice as soon as 
they were able to get a suitable substitute in his place. The 
said letter, however, points out why it was not de.sirablc to 
terminate Shri Bhatt’s services at that stage. The reasons were 
that the construction was progressing with considerable speed 
and they were anxious to have the second phase of the cons¬ 
truction completed as expeditiously as possible to shift fiom 
the present rented premises; that Shri Bhatt was on the job 
since the construction was undertaken and ihc work would 
suffer and it would be difficult to adhere to the time schedule 
if he was to be changed at that stage and further that it 
would be difficult to secure the services of another competent 
clerk-of-works at short notice. 


CCS of the latter. A copy of the Architect’s letter 
dated the 8th February recently received by us in 
this respect is enclosed in which they suggest the 
continuance of Shri Bhatt's services owing to the 
difficulty of getting a suitable candidate for the post 
within the salary range prescribed by us,” 

From para (5)(i) therein, it is again clear that the work 
for which he was engaged was still In progress and that if a 
substitute In his place was appointed the same was likely to 
bo misunderstood particularly as Shri Bhatt has not been 
found lacking in the discharge of his duties during the terms 
of his service with them. This letter inter alia, makes a sug¬ 
gestion that Shri Bhatt's services be transferred to the Archi¬ 
tect and he may be given a certain rise in order to satisfy him 
and as his case now sponsored by the union was pending be¬ 
fore the Asstt. Commissioner of Labour. 

By bis letter, dated 15th October, 1966, [Ex. C/I9f31)], 
written by Shri S. G. Sheth, Secretary & Treasurer, State 
Bank Ahmedabad, to the Managing Director, it is suggested 
that if they tcvmniate the services of Shri Bhatt before the 
case referred in that letter was decided, it may unnecessarily 
prejudice the interest of the bank when the case came up for 
hearing. It also further suggests that the bank’s architect was 
on the look out for a siutable substitute in place of Shri 
Bhatt but they were finding it difficult to secure the services 
of a competent person for the job within the salary range in¬ 
dicated. It also, inter alia, stated that the magistrate before 
whom the complaint under the Shops & Establishments Act 
was filed had indicated his unwillingness to permit the with¬ 
drawal of the case as he had the information to the effect 
that the bank was going to victimise Shri A, R. Bhatt in 
view of the complaint lodged by him. 

These letters clearly suggest that the bank was contemplat¬ 
ing the termination of Shri Bhatt’s services although there was 
nothing against his work and his work was satisfactory, but 
because they wanted to get a cheaper man or did not want 
to pay Shri Bhatt salary as per his demand. There was a fresh 
opening of the post of a clerk-of-works at Baroda in or 
about and Shri Bhatt applied for the post. He was working 
as a clerk-of-works at Ahmedabad at the time for 3 to 4 
years and his work was considered satisfactory. Even then 
he was not called for interview. As those called for inter¬ 
view were not found to be satisfactory, thp post was read¬ 
vertised, but Shri Bhatt was not offered that post, One Shri 
Krishna Murthy was appointed on that post on a salary of 
Rs. 800, Although Shri Bhatt enquired in the course of hear¬ 
ing to produce the list of persons who were recommended for 
being called for interview, no information was given and Shri 
Bhatt’s suggestion was that he was not called for interview 
although his name was included amongst those who were 
to be called, out of prejudice against him. The explanation 
given again that the work was different at Baroda and, there¬ 
fore, a higher salary was paid also hardly appears convincing. 
The motive behind the termination of service, is amply made 
clear by the letter of Shri S.D. Verma addressed to Shri 
E. M. Cohen, dated 26tli October, 1968 [Ex. C/20(9)], It, 
inter alia, states as follows:— 

"We have given full consideration to Shri Bhatt’s case 
and it occurs to u.s that his further retention in the 
Bank’s service is not desirable. You are aware that 
the main reason for which we last deferred termi¬ 
nation of his services was the pendency of concilia¬ 
tion proceedings before the Assistant I abour Com- 
misioncr (C), Ahmedabad. Apropos the failure of 
the conciliation proceedings and in the light of the 
opinion expressed by the Government of India, 
Ministry of Labour, Employment & Rehabilitation, 
in their letter dated the 24th August, 1968 to you, 
to the effect that they do not consider the dlsnufe fit 
for reference to an industrial Tribunal for adjudica¬ 
tion, we need no longer he restrained in taking fur¬ 
ther appiopriatc action.” 


In his letter, dated 29th March, 1967, [Ex, C/20(3)] Shri 
M. A. Narayanan, the Deputy Secretary & Tieasiircr, at 
Ahmedabad states, inter alia, as follows:^— 

“....With regard lo paiagraph 3 of ymii Iclfci under 
leply, we regret to advise that the Archilcels have 
not so far been in a position to find a suitable Clerk 
of woiks to icplacc Shri Bhatt and consequently, it 
has not been possible for us to terminate the servi- 


The reply to the said letter written bv Shri E.M, Cohen of 
Ahmedabad to Shri Verma, dated 26th Novcmbei, 1968, 
[Ex; C/20(8)] makes it abundantly clear that the work for 
which he was engaged was still in progress; that if his services 
were terminated it would be necessary for them to engage a 
substitute in his place and further that Shri Bhatt has not 
been found in any way lacking in the discharge of his duties 
during the term of his service. It suggests that the only 
ground on which they could justify the action would be; (1) 
Shri Bhatt’s attempts to bring pressure on the Bank to con¬ 
cede to his demand for certain benefits to which he claims he 



1760 FHE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


is entitled by resorting to irregular and irresponsible actions 
amount to indiscipUne; (2) Shri Bhatt’s action in submitting 
representations time and again to higher authorities direct 
despite our advising him not to do so is highly objectionable, 
and amounts to gross misconduct. The letter, inter alia, states 
as follows:— 

“No doubt, by resorting to such actions, Shri Bhatt has 
proved that he is not a desirable person to retain in 
the Bank’s service, but it is a matter for considera¬ 
tion, whether this in itself would be sufficient to 
establish the bonafldes of our action if the matter 
goes before a court of law as we apprehend it 
would. On the other hand, we have also to bear in 
mind the fact that If Shri Bhatt is continued in the 
Bank’s service, he would be a constant source of 
nuisance as it is difficult to make him mend his 
ways," 

The letter of Shri S. D. Verma, dated 3rd December, 1968, 
[Ex. C-20(7)] inter alia states as follows;— 

".we have considered the matter fully and 

are of the view that Shri Bhatt’s further retention in 
the rank is not desirable. 

Please, therefore, arrange to terminate his services by 
paying him salary in lieu of notice In accordance 
with the terms of bis contract.” 

All this correspondence makes it abundantly clear that Shri 
Bhatt’s services were terminated not because the wmk for 
which he was employed was completed or because his work 
was not satisfactory or that there would be no necessity to 
appoint a substitute, but because he was considered undesir¬ 
able. The only reason why it appears he has been considered 
undesirable was his pressing his claims regarding wages, per¬ 
manency and other terms and conditions of service, and pur¬ 
suing them through the union by legal methods for getting his 
grievances redressed. If any of his action amounted to Indis¬ 
cipline, as is suggested, he could not have been discharged 
without a proper enquuY, but this has not been done, He 
obviously has been discharged because of other reason sug- 

f ested. I have already indicated earUer the steps taken by 
hrl Bhatt for the redress of bis grievances. The one appears 
to bo a complaint under the Shops & Establishments Act: the 
other condlmtion proceedings and the next a writ petition 
against the Govt of India for not referring his dispute to 
adjudicatloin which I have already Indicated. Shri Bhatt was 
perfectly within his rights, according to the present concept 
of Industrial law to agitate for better terms and conditions of 
service. Merely because the terms and conditions applied to 
him alone and not to a large group of workers, would not 
be a bar. He was within his rights to approach the union for 
the purpose and for getting the matter entered into concilia¬ 
tion and for attempting to get a reference for adjudication of 
his disputes.^ A number of clerk-of-works were, in fact paid 
higher wages at different places than Shri Bhatt. Some of 
them were getting more leave and some increment. What was 
wrong in Shri Bhatt contending that the award of Shri Desai, 
and Shri Sastri applied to him when, in fact, it applied to a 
very large number of employees. What was wrong in his ask¬ 
ing for bonus like the others or haying the working hours or 
leave facilities or medical benefits like others. I am not con¬ 
cerned herein with the question whether Shri Bhatt was in 
error or whether the bank was in error. These questions will 
be determined by proper authorities, but I fail to see anything 
wrong On the part of Shri Bhatt In agitating this matter and 
Shri Bhatt undoubtedly was discharged because of his seek¬ 
ing revision of his service conditions. I am, therefore, of the 
opinion that the discharge of Shri Bhatt vas mala fide and 
amounted to victimisation and unfair labour practice. 


The next question is the relief to be granted. It is not neces¬ 
sary for me to refer to a large number of authorities referred 
to by both the sides as to when reinstatement should be 
granted and when reinstatement should not be granted. The 
substance of those authorities is that ordinarily reinstatement 
should bo granted, but there may be circumstances when the 
same may not be granted; that this is a matter of discretion 
which should bo exercised judicially after taking all the cir¬ 
cumstances into consideration. I do not thing in the circum¬ 
stances of this case it would be advisable to order reinstate¬ 
ment. Shri Bhatt was appointed for the duration of the pre¬ 
sent extension of the building. It may not be strictly relevant 
whether be was appointed only for the first phase or for all 


the phases, but even aU the phases are now likely to be over 
according to the evidence some time in 1974. In the circum¬ 
stances, I do not think this is a fit case where 1 should direct 
reinstatement, though in paying compensation I cannot ignore 
the fact that Shri Bhatt was discharged from service In Dec¬ 
ember, 1968, and the work continued till some time in 1974, 
5 to 6 years thereafter. 


The next question is the question of compensation. 
Shri Bhatt has claimed reinstatement plus cumpensatioii which 
works out to Rs. 49,374 (Ex. U-6). This includes a number of 
itemse like (1) overtime on the basis of 36 hours per week 
instead of 48 hours; (2) difference in the salary of Rs. 800 
per month from 1st January, 1967, to December, 1968; 
(3) the difference on account of a regular increment for the 
year 1967 and 1968 to which, according to him, he was entitled 
as per the Desai Award; (4) difference In bonus paid to him 
and payable to him on the basis that he was on the regular 
staff of the bank; (5) medical benefits per year from October, 
1964, till today; (6) the difference in leave granted It, him 
under the Shops & Establishments Act on the basis that he 
was on the staff of the bank and a number of other items. 


The determination of this question would depend upon 
the determination of the question as to whether he was en¬ 
titled to the benefits of the Desai Award and a number of 
other questions. The union on his behalf had called upon the 
Government to refer this dispute for adjudication which the 
Government of India declined and the writ petition has been 
tiled before the Hon’ble High Court of Gujarat for issue of a 
writ to the Government of India to refer the dispute. That 
petition is pending, though after the hearing was over I learnt 
that the writ has been granted to Shri Bhatt. But so far as I 
am concerned the question whether Shri Bhatt is entitled to 
those amounts or not Is not before me and In this reference 
1 have no jurisdiction to determine those questions. I shall, 
therefore, determine the question of compensation in this 
matter only on the basis of the last salary drawn by him, 
l.e., of Rs. 500. There is evidence on record as to the period 
during which Shri Bhatt remained unemployed and the period 
subsequent to his discharge he has been employed. From 
November, 1969, onwards Shri Bhatt has Joined Vakil Mahta 
Parikh Sheth, consulting engineers, and he is drawing a 
monthly salary of Rs. 500 plus a project and outstatlon allo¬ 
wance of Rs. 200; from July, 1970, to October, 1970. 
Rs. 550 and an allowance of &i, 200; from November, 1970, 
to March, 1971, he was drawing a salary of Rs, ISO, plus 
allowance of Rs. 50, and from April, 1970, onwards Rs. 800 
and an allowance of Rs. SO. Prior to Ist November, 1969, he 
had worked as part time for Vakil, Mahta Parikh Sheth on 
a salary of Rs. 150 and also worked as an engineer from Ist 
August, 1969, to Ist November, 1969, with the New Shorrock 
MiUs on a salary of Rs. 400 plus dearness allowance which 
came to about Rs. 180 per month at that time. Shri Bhatt 
has claimed, therefore, Rs. 3,000 for about 6 months on the 
basis of his salary of Rs. 500 which appeal’s to be extremely 
fair and the bank has led no evidence to show that this 
amount is not the correct amount. It appears to me, the«- 
fore, proper to award Rs. 3,000 as compensation for the 
period during which he remained unemployed and not Jhore. 
I have come to the conclusion that the discharge of Shri 
Bhatt was mala fide. The work for which he was employed, 
if he had not been discharged, it appears to me would 
have continued for a good part of 1974. He would have thus 
got employment for a period of 5 to 6 years after his uis- 
charge. I am now not reinstating him because it appears to 
me that though this was a case of mala fide discharge, 
the work is likely to be over in a year or a year and a half. 
It would be futile to reinstate him. I am, therefore, awarding 
him compensation in lieu of reinstatement. Whilst no princi¬ 
ples can be laid down, there are a number of decisions of the 
Supreme Court, where large amounts have been awarded as 
compensation in lieu of reinstatement even to person who 
have put In comparatively short period of service. In the case 
of Assam Oil Company Ltd. and Its workmen, (reported m 
1960 I ELJ P ‘>87), where the salary o[ the respondent 
was Rs! 535,’ the Supreme Court thought it proper to award 
Rs. 12,500 as compensation. However, the amount o[ com¬ 
pensation to be awarded in lieu of reinstatement would depend 
upon the facts of each case. It appears to me taking a” facts 
into consideration that in the present instance it would be 
advisable to award an amount equivalent to twelve months 
salary last drawn by Shri Bhatt as compensation in heu ot re¬ 
instatement. This would come to about Rs. 6,000. The 
amount of compensation, therefore, apart from costs, would 
work out to about Rs. 9,000. 




Sec. 3fii) ] 


1761 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5. 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 

ORDER 


Shrl Bhatt’s consistent stand has been that he was very 
much underpaid particularly looking to what was paid to other 
clcrks-of-works; that he was entitled to increments, etc. 
Further that he was entitled to overtime, bonus and a number 
of benefits. The amount that would become payable on that 
score or not would depend upon the ultimate decision as to 
whether he was entitled to those amounts or not. The Tribu¬ 
nal to which if the matter is ultimately referred, will certainly 
look into those claims. I would like, however, to make it 
clear, so far as compensation is concerned, that the compen¬ 
sation has been worked out by me on the basis of 6 months 
for the period of unemployment and 12 months in lieu of re¬ 
instatement, i.e,, in all for 18 months. This has been calcu¬ 
lated on the last salary actually drawn by him of Rs. 500 
and not necessarily on the basis of what salary justifiably he 
was entitled to. If as a result of any fresh adjudication which 
may be granted, his salary is revised beyond Rs. 500, with 
would be desirable that he should be paid the difference. I, 
therefore, direct as follows:— 

(a) Shri Bhatt be paid by way of compensation an 
amount of Rs. 9,000 (Rupees nine thousand only). 

(b) If as a result of any adjudication in future his last 
salary payable to him is revised upward, the diffe¬ 
rence between the salary actually paid to him, i.e., 
Rs. 500 and the salary so fixed multiplied by 18 
should also be paid to him. 

This adjudication has dragged on for a long time. A large 
number of preliminary points have been taken up and 
Shri Bhatt had to incur considerable expense in connection 
with his adjudication. His stand has been greatly vindicated. 
I, therefore, direct that he should be paid Rs. 1,000 by way 
of costs. This would possibly meet only part of the expenses 
that he has to Incur. 

I direct that the amount of Rs. 9,000 plus Rs. 1,000 of 
coats be paid to Shri Bhatt within two weeks from the date 
this Award becomes enforceable. The remaining amount may 
or may not become payable and, therefore, no directions as 
to when it should be paid are given. 

INDRAJIT G. THAKORE, Presiding Officer 
[No, 23/8/69-LR III] 

Ahmedabad, 

17th April, 1973. 

KARNAIL SINGH, Under Secy. 

aifi ihnwR 

(eiiT arf? ?irwT) 

Wr 

^ fWt, 19 1973 

W. 1290.—W: ^ IFT ^ 

'Nm ^ TF»f7 SITT, UVnff, 

r-i^Tida 'ami ^ ) 

suff:, 3nr, IWr 1947 (1947 

^ 14 ) wrr 7 ^ irnr 10 ^ 

Cl) (y) fwr RTw 5f7T 

yrnw yysymy liiriT sifi 

qrfer (iTJn?iirT) if Wqjit fqfff 

3EniRr-f^ qi ^ 1 

Di. 'i^-20Oll/69/72-t?5r. an7.-4] 


New Delhi, the 19th February, 1973 

S.O. 1290.—Whereas the Central Government is of opi- 
nion that an industrial dispute exists between the employers 
in relation to the management of Sand Stone Mine of Shri 
Karlar Sit^gh, Chhawani, Kota, and their workmen in respect 
of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desir¬ 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 7A and danse (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Central Government hereby constitutes an industrial Tribu¬ 
nal with Shri Updesh Narain Mathur as Presiding Officer 
with headquarters at laipur and refers the said dispute for ad- 
Judication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 

Whether the workmen employed in the Budhpura Sand 
Stone Mine of Shri Kartar Singh, Chhawani, Kota 
(Rajasthan) arc entitled for grant of any paid 
national and festival holiday? 

[No. L-29011/69/72-LR IV] 

anVv 

14 BT^, 197.3 

qrr. ■w. 1201.—Bir; ^ rw ^ 

qrf if 

jfW ^ 

3ift Bff: ql'slii BTqnr gw fq^iq qrt ^ 

f-iq''^ f !t i ri qrrBT qnHfy , 

Wi, w, fTBp; arfutwir, 1047 (1947 qr 

14) q!^ ym 7-^ aifi ym 10 qff gwRi (i) i> aw (y) 

fWT wxff ^ifqwt qrr nyfr qrr?f «(qif< 

tiy^tfqirr trq; aityqrror qnift if, 

ariWiVf sff. 'ft. iffnf #t, fsFrqJT 

qr?'Vqp5 5inr aifr gw iVqiB q^i gw yty^ror 

qrt wyfyifrw qf qrnff ^ 1 

“qyT liW ^rrafwr f5r?iTg?«, 

qiyff qf iiriy sVqn q? nq’yyq qff, uy 
qnfqiR qy yry Bigr < tvi tf qng q'-J qff 
qtRfqr?' ^ lyiyffyiT yfq fft q? fVy 
qy fqrrn sf ? 

[y. yy.-29012/4/73 Ty. 31T7.'4] 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 14th March, 1973 

S.O. 1291.—Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an industrial dispute exist between the 
employers in iclation to the management of Shri Khub Chand, 
Quarry Contractor of Messrs Dalmia Dadri Cement Limited, 
Chaikhi Dadri and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it dcsu'- 
ablc to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powcis conferred by 
section 7A and danse (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the 
Cential Ciovernment hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribun¬ 
al with Shri O. P. Sharma as Picsiding Officer with head¬ 
quarters at 1-aridabad and icfcis the said dispute for ad¬ 
judication to the said Industrial Tribunal. 



1762 THE G.4ZETTE OF I^TD1A : MAY 5. 1973/VATSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 

' ■'n , - , -. , ,-i t, . , ■ . —.~— ^ 


For the Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union : 


SCHEDUI.E 

Whether the action, of the management of Shri Khub 
Chand, Quarry Contractor of Messrs Dalima Dadri 
Cement Limited, Charkhi Dadri, in sti iking off the 
name of Shri Rum Kumar, a workman, from the 
Muster Roll was le^ul and justified? If not. to 
what relief is he entitled? 

INo. L-290I2/4/73-LR. IV] 

SfltfVr 

^ 16 aniV, 1973 

311. 13''3.—^fff. VTTW ^ STR aif? rf^rrrR 

tt'fim'd ^ 3Tfiit-i,'«RT Rw 3rr. 468 5 wrrl, 

1983 iretifrw 

f, 'flartfN' ^ tfT frw ^ , 

fsTwr? arfSif^rw, 1947 (1947 ^ 
14) tIRT 8 ^ ^ 3Id,«<u| 4^, HWR 

*4 '4. i4. 441 ist rF zrfsr sr*r 

RTRitw ^ 4tei44r arfwwl f I 

[tM. 4. t?fr-1101l/4/73-t;eF. 387.-1] 

tJR. IT^PSTRIRR, 3847 irfw 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 16th April, 197.1 

S.O. 1292.—Whereas a vacancy has occurred in the 
office of the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court with 
headquarters at Jullundhur, constituted by the notification of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Labour and 
Employment No. S. O. 458, datetd the 5th February, 1963; 

Now, therefore, in pursuance of the provisions of sec¬ 
tion 8 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947). 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri P. C. Saint 
as the Presiding Officer of the Labour Court constituted 
us aforesaid. 

[F. No. S-11011/4/73-LR 1] 

S. S. SAHASRANAMAN 

New Delhi, the 25th April, 1973 

S.O. 1293.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tri- 
biuial, Assam, Dibrugarh. in the industrial dispute between 
the employers in relation to the management of Messrs 
Assam Oil Company Limited, Digboi and their workmen, 
which was received by the Central Government on the ILth 
April, 1973. 

BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL 
TRIBUNAL OF ASSAM AT DIBRUGARH 

Present t 

Shri G, N. Borah, M.A., LL.B., flarrister-at-law. Presiding 
Officer, Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal, Dibrugarh, Assam. 

In the matter of an Industrial dispute 
BETWEEN 

_ The Mdnagcniem of M/s Assam Oil Company Ltd,, 
Digboi, Assam. 

AND 

Their Workmen represented by Assam Petroleum 
Mazdoor Union, Digboi, Assam. 

Rcfcrciuc No. 13 of 1971 

Appouranccs: 

For the Management—Shri ,1. K. Ghosh, Advocate, 
Adv^alc ^ Labour Union—Shri D. Narsingh, 


(i) 'Shri K. Borthakur, Advocate, and 

(ii) Shri A. R, Borthakttr, Bar-at-law. 

AWARD 

By Order No. 7(8)/70-TR-IV dated 11th. May, 
1971, the Government of India, in the Ministry of Labour 
and Rehabilitation, Department of Labour and Employment, 
referred the dispute between the management of M/s, Assam 
Oil Co, Ltd,, Digboi, and their workmen represented by 
Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union, Digboi, to this Tribunal 
under section 10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, as 
amended, for adjudication of the following issue :— 

“To what quantum of bonus for the accounting year 
1969, the workmen of the Assam Oil Company 
l.imited are entitled to under the “Payment of 
Bonus Act, 1965?” 

On receipt of this reference, this was duly registered and 
notice was issued to the parties to submit their Written 
Statements. On receipt of this notice, the parties filed their 
Written Statements and also Additional Written Statements, 
and when the case was ready it was fixed for hearing for 
the first time on 3-11-71 on which date although all the parties 
were present, due to the absence of the Counsel for the 
A.O.C. Labour Union, on a petition from the said Union 
the hearing had to be adjourned till 17-1-72. On 3-11-71 
the management however filed some documents which were 
marked as Exhibit-1 to Exhibit-21. On this date, the Assam 
Petroleum Mazdoor Union also filed three documents which, 
on admission by the management, were marked as Exhibit-‘A’ 
to Exhibit-'C’. 

On 17-1-72, the date fixed for next hearing of this case, 
the Unions filed a joint petition seeking certain clarifications 
to the Balance-Sheet etc. of the Company, Exhibit-19 and 20 
from the management. The management gave reply in writ¬ 
ing on the clarifications sought by the Unions on the follow¬ 
ing date. Thereafter a hearing was given to the parties on 
this petition and the Tribunal was pleased to pass the 
Order No. 16 of 21-3-72. The relevant portion of the above 
Order reads as follows :— 

“... it is clear from the perusal of the written statements 
filed by the Unions that the Unions have challenged 
the Balance-Sheet in general, and it is proper for 
the Unions to ask for clarifications under section 23 
of the Payment of Bonus Act. From a plain reading 
of this section, it is also clear that the parties cannot 
be allowed to make a roving inspection into the 
Balance Sheet. If they (Unions) have any doubt 
regarding certain items of the Balance Sheet they 
have to specifically state these with reasons for the 
doubts and then only the parties can be allowed 
to probe into the correctness or otherwise of these 
specific items in the Balance Sheets. It is not 
denied by the Unions that the Balance Sheets are 
duly audited and as such under section 23 of the 
said Act statements and particulars contained in the 
Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss Account ought 
to be taken as accurate unless it is proved other¬ 
wise." 

“The Unions’ case is that as far as the figures in the 
Balance-Sheet are concerned, they entertained no 
doubt but they questioned the justifiability of inclu¬ 
sion of certain items in Ihc Balance-Sheet. They 
alleged (hat inclusion of certain items in the 

Balance-Sheet have reduced the Company’s profits, 
and consequently their quantum of bonus. 

It is noticed that in reply to Ihc Unions’ petition for 
claiification, the management have given some 
clarifications to the Unions’ query on the Balance- 
Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and on the Com¬ 
putation Chart. Although the Unions do not seem 
to have accepted these clarifications, I do not think 
the management can be asked to give further clari¬ 
fications at this stage till the Unions are able to 
raise specific issue on the accuracy or justifiability 
of an entry into Exhibit-19 and the Computation 
Chart in support of their case. 



Sec. 3(ii) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


1763 


Subject to the above conditions, the pnitics will be ai 
liberty to adduce any evidence they please regarding 
the accuracy, justiliability or otherwise of the entries 
into the Balance Sheet. Profit and Loss Account 
and the Computation Chart." 


great importance. The Counsel submits that the Balance- 
Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and the Computation Chart 
all suHcr fiom the following infirmities, for which the State¬ 
ment of Accounts should not be relied upon and hence 
these should be discarded ;— 


Thereafter the hearing of this reference eontinued and 
although the parties were allowed to adduce any oral evidence 
they pleased legarding the accuracy or otherwise of the 
Balance-Sheet, Profit and Loss Account and the Computa¬ 
tion Chart in the light of the observations made in the 
above order, they declined to adduce any oral evidence and 
they were prepared to rely on the papers marked ns exhibits 
for the case. Evidence was thereafter treated as closed and 
the parties argued their case at length before me. 

The case foi- the management is that this reference Is a 
result of a settlement, Exhibit-5, entered on .^0-9-70 whereby 
the parties agreed to make a joint application to the Govt. 
Exhibit-1, for adjudication of this dispute on paymciU of 
bonus under the Payment of Bonus Act (hereinafter called 'the 
Act'). As such, all claims and relief must be had by the parties 
through the provisions of this Act. The management submitted 
that since the Unions were not able to specifically point out any 
inaccuracy in the Balance-Sheet either through documentary 
or oral evidence inspite of the opportunity given to the Unions 
by the Tribunal the Balance-Sheet ought to be treated as 
accurate representation of the financial position of the Com¬ 
pany, This also applies to the Profit and Loss Account and 
the Computation Chart as they arc compiled after the 
Balance-Sheet is prepared. The Counsel further submitted 
that the Computation Chart has been prepared strictly accord¬ 
ing to the provisions of the Act on the basis of the Profit 
and Loss Account and the Balance-Sheet, the figures of which 
are not specifically challenged by the Unions, The learned 
Counsel next argues that since this reference is a result of a 
settlement or an agreement the Unions cannot now be 
allowed to plead that the bonus be paid on the basis of five 
months’ wages which is not contemplated under the Act. 
The Counsel further argued that bonus have always been 
paid to the workers either under an award or under an 
agreement arrived at between the parties and that the Written 
Statements of the Unions stating that bonus was paid on an 
uniform rate of five months’ wages of the workers is not 
correct. If one goes through the history on this matter, it 
will be noticed that the Company paid bonus to their em¬ 
ployees either under an award such as Shri S. P. Verma’s 
Award and Shri Puri’s Award or by virtue of agreements. 
Even after the passing of the Act in 1965 the management 
paid bonus to their employees on the basis of agreement 
covered by Section 34 of the Act. It was only in 1969 this 
reference was made on a joint application by the parties as 
no agreement could be arrived at between the parties. 

The learned Counsel for the management next argues that 
even after this reference was made the management made 
an ad interim payment as per Exhibit-6 not in supersession 
but subject to this award pending adjudication. As such, the 
Counsel submits that the sum of money paid on this account 
has to be adjusted against the sum of money that will have 
to be paid to the employees after an award is made. 


(1) that the Balance-Sheet has not been duly authenti¬ 
cated by the Auditors, and this is a serious defect; 

(2) that the figures in the Balance-Sheet have been duly 
challenged as incorrect by way of seeking clarifica¬ 
tions. There is no specified method of challenging 
the Balance-Sheet and the Unions challenged the 
same by asking the Management to give some clari¬ 
fications. The management immediately gave their 
clarifications but this was given in a very cryptic 
.and sketchy manner, and since the entries in the 
Balance-Sheet have been challenged it was the duty 
of the management to come out with adequate proof 
on the entries cither through documentary evidence 
or even by oral evidence. But the management 
choses to give no evidence although they had full 
access to the books and decided to rely only on 
the papers already submitted and exhibited. Since 
the nooks of accounts are in the custody of the 
management it is well neigh impossible for the 
Unions to lead evidence on the inaccuracy of the 
Balance-Sheet and as such the Unions could not 
lead any evidence on this subject. The Unions 
next submit that there is no special sanctity attached 
to the Balance-Sheet as such. Once the entries and 
figuies in the Balance-Sheet arc challenged in what¬ 
ever form these may be done it is the duty of the 
management to come out with all the papers and 
books they rely on and prove the figures and en¬ 
tries made in the same to the satisfaction of the 
Court and ihe parties concerned. Under Section 
23 of the Act there is only a presumption that the 
audited Balance-Sheet is accurate. But this pre¬ 
sumption is only a rebuttable presumption and the 
management's stand that the Balance-Sheet is 
sacrocant and could not be touched is not justified. 
In support of these arguments, the learned Counsels 
for the Unions rely on the following rulings of the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court;— 

1. Petlad Turkey Red Dye Works Co. I.td 

—^vs.— 

Dyes & Chemical Workers' Union 
—reported in 1960, Vol. I, L.L.J., page 548, 

2. Khandesh Spinning & Weaving Mills Co, Ltd. 
Jalgaon, 

—-vs.— 

Rashlriya Girni Kamgar Sangh, Jalgaon. 

—reported in 1960, L.L.J,, Vol. I, page 541. 

3. M/s. Aluminium Corporation of India Ltd. 

—vs.— 

Their Workmen. 

—reported in 1963, L.L.J, Vol. TI, page 629. 


The learned Counsel thereafter re-iterated most of the 
arguments in support of the accuracy of the Company’s 
Balance-Sheet, Profit and I.oss Account and the Computation 
Chart he put forward in the hearing given to the parties ear¬ 
lier in this regard. 

Shri Narsingh, the Counsel for the A.O.C. T.abour Union 
and Shri K. Borthakur, the Counsel for the Assam Petroleum 
Mazdoor Union, both argued their case separately before 
me. But as these arguments arc materially the same, I pro¬ 
posed to deal with them together. At the outset, the learned 
Counsel for the A.O.C. Labour Union drew the attention of 
this Tribunal that Exhibit-18, the settlement, has no binding 
effect on the employees belonging to this Union as they were 
not parties to this settlement. This settlement was executed 
between the management and the Assam Petroleum Mazdoor 
Union. In this connection, the learned Counsel cites the 
Supreme Court case of —'Sanghvi Jeevraj Ghewar Chand’ 
—Vs.—-Madras Chillies, Grains and Kirana Merchants Wor¬ 
kers’ Union, reported in 1969, L.L.J., Vol. T, page 719, How¬ 
ever, the Counsel submits that this point is no longer impor¬ 
tant after the reference is made on this di.spnte and the 
Unions concede that this matter must now be guided by the 
Act irrespective of whatever took place in the past. As such 
the Balance-Sheet for the accounting year 1969 assumes 


4. Burn & Co, Ltd. —vs,— Their Workmen. 

—reported in 1964, Vol. 1, L.L.J., page 370. 

5. Azam Jahi Mills Ltd. —vs.-— Their Workmen, 
—reported in 1967, L.L.J,, Vol. II, page 18. at 

page 22. 

6. Manager, Cannanore Spinning & Weaving Milla 
ltd. 


Cannanore Spinning & Weaving Mills Workers 
‘Union. 

—reported in 1967, L.L.J., Vol II, page 733 at page 


7. Metal Box Company of India Ltd. —vs.— Their 
Workmen. 

—reported in 1969, L.L.J., Vol. I, page 785, para 8. 

8, Oriental Gas Company I.td. —vs.— Their Workmen. 

—reported in 1971, L.L.J., Vol. II, page 657 at 

page 663, paragraph 18 and 19. 

9. Binny Limited —vs.— Their Workmen. 

—reported in 1972, L.L.J,, May issue, page 449. 

—^vs.— 



1764 


rHE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 


10. The Indian Link Chain Manufacturers ltd. 

Their Workmen.—reported in 1971, T,.T.J., Vol. IT, 
page 581. 

The Unions next submit that since the Balance-Sheet, 
Profit & Loss Account and the Computation Chart cannot 
be relied upon it would be meet and proper for the Tribunal 
to discard the same and award payment of bonus for 5 (five) 
months as this has always been the custom in this Company. 
As regards the interim payment of bonus in the year In 
question made by the Company as per Exhiblt-8, the Counsels 
submit that this was purely an ex-gratia payment without any 
relation to the salaries drawn by the recipients and as such 
the question of deduction of this amount from whatever that 
may be awarded by the Tribunal cannot arise. 

It must be clearly understood that this reference was made 
under the Payment of Bonus Act. The Tribunal is asked to 
determine the quantum of bonus under the Act for the 
accounting year 1969, This means that whatever relief the 
parties wish to seek must be sought within the frame work 
of the Act. There is no scope under the Act to determine 
the quantum of bonus on the basis of monthly salary drawn 
by the employees unless there is an agreement or prevelant 
custom to make such payment. I have no proof before me 
that it is customary on the part of the Company to pay 
bonus to the employees on the basis of monthly salary drawn 
by them. It is not denied by the Company that the wor¬ 
kers were In the past sometimes paid bonus on the basis of 
monthly wages or salaries drawn by the employees oven 
after the passing of the Act In 1965. But this was done 
strictly under agreements or awards and such payments arc 
therefore covered by Section 34(3) of the Act. As the parties 
could not come to an agreement regarding the quantum of 
bonus for the accounting year 1969 they entered Into a 
settlement as per Exhlblt-5 to make joint appeal to the 
Govt, to refer this matter for adjudication under section 
10(2) of the Industrial Disputes Act. In the circumstance, 
It Is not understood how the Unions can make claim for 
bonus on the basis of 5 (flye) months' salary when there 
Is no scope of making such payments under the Act. As 
such, the Unions’ claim for bonus on the basis of 5 (fiye) 
months’ salary or wage cannot therefore be entertained. 

The only question now remains is to see what quantum 
of bonus the employees are entitled to in respect of account¬ 
ing year 1969. The Company is only agreeable to pay the 
minimum bonus to the employees at 4 per cent of the 
salaries or wages earned by the employees during the ac- 
rounting year prescribed under the Act and expressed their 
inability to pay more, in support of their case, the manage¬ 
ment haye submitted their Balance-Sheet, Profit and Loss 
Account and the Computation Chart. As stated above, the 
Unions criticised these papers over and over again and In¬ 
sisted that the Balance-Sheet along with Profit and Loss 
Account and the Computation Chart should be rejected as 
the clarifications given by the management are not satisfac¬ 
tory. The management, on the other hand, took shelter under 
section 23 of the Act which reads as follows :— 

Section. 23. 

"Presumption about accuracy of Balance-Sheet and Profit 
& Loss Account of Corporations and Companies :— 

(I) Where, during the course of proceedings before any 
arbitrator or Tribunal under the Industrial Disputes 

Act, 1947, .to which any dispute of the 

nature specified in Section 22 has been referred, 
the balance-sheet and the profit and loss account 
of an employer, being a corporation or a company 
(other than a banking company), duly audited by 
the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India or by 
auditors duly qualified to act as auditors of com¬ 
panies under sub-section (1) of Section 226 of 
the Companies Act, 1956, are produced before it, 
then, the said authority may presume the statements 
and particulars contained lit such balance-sheet and 
profit and loss account to be accurate and it shall 
not be necessary for the corporation or the company 
to prove the accuracy of such statements and parti¬ 
culars by the filing of an affidavit or by any other 
mode : 

Provided that where the said authority is satisfied that 
the statements and particulars contained in the 
balance-sheet or the profit and loss account of the 
corporation or the company are not accurate, it 
may take such steps as it thinks necessary to find 


5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part II— 


out the accuracy of such statements and parti¬ 
culars, 

(2) When an application Is made to the said authority 
by any trade union being a party to the dispute or 
where there is no trade union, by the employees 
being a party to the dispute, requiring any clarifi¬ 
cation relating to any item in the balance-sheet or 
the profit and loss account, it may, after satisfying 
itself that such clarification is necessary, by order, 
direct the corporation or, as the case may be, the 
company, to furnish to the trade imion or the 
employees such clarification within such time as 
may be specified In the direction and the corpora¬ 
tion or, as the case may be, the company, shall 
comply with such direction." 

I feel, the management is right in their contention that 
.some amount of sanctity ought to be given to an audited 
Balance-Sheet until and unless the Trade Unions make 
positive allegations and assertions that certain items in the 
same are falsely and inaccurately entered into. But the 
Unions have made no such allegations and were only con¬ 
tend to seek clarification and the management gave their 
clarifications. The Unions’ plea is that as all the accounts 
books are in the custody of the management it is extremely 
dlfilcult for them to point out the inaccuracy is not tenable. 
From the foregoing pages, it will be noticed that the Tribunal 
gave the Unions full opportunity to adduce any evidence oral 
or documentary they pleased regarding Inaccuracy of the 
Balance-Sheet and call for any record books of accounts 
they pleased for this purpose. They did not avail of this 
opportunity, and the Balance-Sheet, Profit and loss Account 
and the Computation Chart should therefore be taken as true 
representation of the financial position of the Company. As 
stated above, the learned Counsel for the Unions cited several 
Supreme Court cases regarding the extent of sanctity one 
ought to give to the Balance-Sheet. Their lordships of the 
Hon'ble Supreme Court are uniform of their opinion that 
there is a strong presumption that an audited Balance-Sheet 
is an accurate representation of the Company’s financial 
position till it is proved to be Inaccurate. 'ITie issue of 
accuracy or otherMse of the Balance-Sheet can be at large 
before the Tribunal only when positive allegations are made 
by the Unions on the propriety of entries and the accuracy 
of the figures in the Briance-Shect. Even In the recent case 
of Metal Box Ckjnmany of India Ltd. —^vs.— Their Work¬ 
men, reported In 1969, L.L.J., Vol. I, page 785, which is a 
case after the implementation of the Act, the Unions were 
allowed to probe into the correctness or otherwise of the 
disputed figures only after the employees made positive alle- 
ptions and assertions regarding the inaccuracy of the figures. 
It Is certain that bo roving inspection of Balance-Sheet once 
audited can be allowed or else under Section 23 of the 
Act would be meaningless. Besides the Unions’ case Is fur¬ 
ther weakened as the Balance-Sheet, Profit and Loss Account 
and the Computation Chart were marked as exhibits on their 
own admission and it does not lie now in their mouth to 
say that they are not true Balance-Sheet. Further, the Unions’ 
contention that this is not a truely audited Balance-Sheet is 
not tenable. The Balance-Sheet is audited and certified by 
the firm of Price Waterhouse & Co,, Calcutta, duly signed by 
the auditors In the copy of Exhibit-20 submitted and pro¬ 
duced before this Tribunal on 31-1-73 to which no objection 
was raised regarding this document by the Unions. It is a 
common knowledge that the auditors are liable to criminal 
action if a certificate is Issued without verification of accounts. 
It is also a common knowledge that the Balance-Sheet of the 
(Company has to be submitted before the various authorities 
such as Income-Tax authorities, Registrar of Companies, etc. 
for which correctness of figures or entries in the Balance- 
Sheet have to be doubly assured. I have therefore no reason 
to disbelieve the certificate issued by the auditors in this 
regard. Thus, In the entire view of the matter, I am Inclined 
to accept the Balance-Sheet and Profit and Loss Account as 
true statement of accounts. 


The position regarding the Computation Chart is however 
different. The Computation Chart is usually prepared by the 
Company and there is no presumption of correctness of 
these Charts. For this reason, the learned Counsel for the 
rnanagement took me through all the Items In the Computa¬ 
tion Chart in a most pain staking manner. I am satisfied 
that the management have carefully followed all the rele¬ 
vant provisions of the Act and schedules under the Act 





Sec. 3(ii) ] T^E GAZETTE OF INDIA ; 


while picpni’ins this Coniputation Chart. Further, while 
going tnrough every items in the Computation Chart the 
learned Counsel gave an adequate explanation as to why the 
items included in the Computation Chart had to be included 
in the said Chart and I am satisfied with the explanations 
iven by the management in this regard The management 
owever pointed out to this Tribunal that there has been a 
slight mathematical mistake m calculation in right hand 
column of the Computation Chart in which figure Rs. 54.63 
lacs should read as Rs. 65.22 lacs and the management 
therefore filed a revised statement in two sheets giving full 
break up of how the figure of Rs. 65.22 lacs was arrived at 
along with a petition that these two sheets should replace 
Sheet No. 4 of Exhibit-19 and included in Exhibit-19, the 
Computation Cliart, The Unions raised no objection to the 
management’s prayer made in this regard, I do not think 
that the Unions will be prejudiced in any way if the manage¬ 
ment's prayer is granted as, if the figure Rs. 65.22 lacs is 
taken instead of the figure Rs. 54.65 lacs then the loss sus¬ 
tained by the Company will be Rs. 13.85 lacs and not 
Rs. 3.06 lacs as shown in the Computation Chart, Exhibit-19. 
I therefoia think, these two sheets should be included in 
Exhibit-19, the Computation Chart. The Unions, however, 
were very critical about this mistake pointed out by the 
management themselves. They argued that the whole Com¬ 
putation Chart should be rejected on account of this as 
there could be more mistakes in this Chart had the manage¬ 
ment come out with all the books of accounts or tendered 
oral evidence. This argument is not understood. It is not 
for the management to bring all the books of accounts in 
support of their statements and Charts they have submitted 
This duty is cast on the management only after the Opposite 
Party challenges particular items of various statement of 
account and Charts produced by them and call for the 
books to satisfy them on these items challenged, I do no( 
think the above mistakes pointed out by the management 
in the Computation Chart Exhibit-19 is very vital and 
Exhibit-19 can be accepted as correct with the necessary 
correction sheets submitted by the management in the course 
of hearing. 

Thus having come to this findings, it is now necessary to 
see what quantum of bonus can be allowed to the emplo¬ 
yees. It will be noticed from the Computation Chart that 
there is no allocable surplus in the accounting year in ques¬ 
tion, As such, the Company cannot be asked to pay more 
ihan the statutory minimum laid down in (he Act. 

It is noticed that as per Exhibit-8 pending adjudication of 
this dispute the management offered and paid to the emplo¬ 
yees an ad interim bonus on account of the accounting year 
1969 a lump sum amount to every employee basing on the 
salary he draws according to the schedules attached with 
Exhlbit-8. The management contend that this payment was 
made under section 17 of the Act and as such they should 
bo allowed to deduct the sum from the amount they would 
be liable to pay under this award. The Unions vehemently 
opposed these contentions made by the learned Counsel for 
the management and said that section 17 of the Act is not 
attracted and this payment was made without any basis and 
should therefore be taken as ex-gratia payment. The Coun¬ 
sel for the A.O.C. Labour Union also said that they were 
not a party to this agreement, Exhibit-6, which has resulted 
in the offer in Exhibit-8 and they cannot therefore be bound 
by this agreement, and if the management made any pay¬ 
ments these payments are undoubtedly ex-gratia payment, 
and deduction should not bo made from the amount awarded 
by this Tribunal. 

I do not think Section 17 of the Act is attracted in this 
case as Exhibit-8 do not state In precise terms that this 
payment was made against the bonus payable under the Act, 
and also because this payment was not against any customary 
bonus payable to the employees and this offer under 
Exhibit-8 was made long after the bonus became payable. 
It is not known under what other provisions of the Act or 
anyother Acts this payment was made and what was the 
basis of these payments. In the circumstance, I do not 
think this amount could be deducted from what ^e manage¬ 
ment will now be asked to pay bonus under this Act. 

Thus from the entire view of the matter, the only issue of 
this reference is answered as follows ;— 

1. Workmen of the Assam Oil Company Limited are 
only entitled to payment of minimum bonus of 
4 per cent of their salaries or wages earned by 
them during the accounting year 1969 or Rs. 40 


MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1765 


whichever is higher under section 10 of the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1963. 

I give this ‘Award’ on this 3rd day of April, 1973, at 
Dibrugarh. 

[No. 7(8)/70-LR IV] 
G. N. BORAH, Presiding Officer 
Assam, Dibrugarh. 

S.O. 1294.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Dispiues Act, 1‘147 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal 
Ahmcdal'iid, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the management of Messrs. Bagwada Stone 
Supplying Compaiiy, Siir.u ano their workmen, which was re¬ 
ceived by the Central Government on the 16th April, 1973, 

BEFORE SHRT INDRAJIT G. THAKORE, PRESIDING 

OFFICER, INDUSTRIAT. 7R1BUNAL, AHMEDABAD 

Reference (ITC) No. 4 of 1972 
BETWEEN 

The F.mployers in relation to the Management of Messrs. 
Bagwada Stone Supply Company, Surat, 

AND 

Their Workmen, 

In the matter of non-payment of bonus 20 per cent of 
earned wages. 

Appearimees: 

No one—for the Company. 

Shri J. 1. vShah—for the Workmen. 

award 

This industrial dispute between the employers in relation to 
the management of Me,ssrs. Bagwada Stone Supply Company, 
Surat, andnheiv workmen has been referred to me foi adjudi¬ 
cation as Industrial Tribunal under clause (d) of sub-section 
(1) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by 
the Govt, of India. Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation, 
Department of Labour & Employment, Order No. 
L-290ll(28)/72-LR TV, dated 29lh July, 1972. The dispute 
relates to a demand for bonus for the accounting years Samvat 
2024, 2025 and 2026. 

In this matter Shri 1, 1. Shah who has appeared for the 
union has stated that as the matter is settled oui of Court, the 
union does not desire to proceed with this mater. In the 
cii cumstanccs, the dispute doe.s not survive foi adjudication 
and stands disposed of. 

Ahmedabad, 

31st March, 1973. 

INDRAIFI’ G. THAKORE, Presiding Officer 
[No. L-29011(2K)/72-l,E, TV] 

New Delhi, the 26th Y\pril, 1973 

S.O. 1295.—In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tribunal 
Gujarat, Ahmedabad in the mdusti ial dispute betweeu the em¬ 
ployers in relation to the management of Mcssi.s. Shii Laxmi 
Stone Industries. Post Office Kadwali. Taluka Jhagacua and 
their workmen, which was received by the Central Govern¬ 
ment on the 21st April, 1973. 

BEFORE SHRI INDRAJIT G. THAKORE, PRESIDING 
OFFICER, INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL, AT AHMEDABAD 

Reference (ITC) No. 9 of 1972 
AD.1UD1CAT10N 

BETWEEN 

Messrs. Shii Laxmi Stone Industries, P. O. Kadwali, 
Taluka Jhagadia. 

AND 

The workmen employed under It. 

In the matter of bonus for Samvat Years 2025 and 2026, 




1766 


TUB GAZBTTB OF INDIA : MAY 


award 


This indii5trinl dispute between the employers in lelation 
to the manHgcmcnt of Messrs, of Shri Laxmi Stone Industries, 
P.O. Kadwali, Taluka Jhagadia and the workmen employed 
under it has been (eferred to me for udjudication under Sec¬ 
tion 7A and danse (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of 
the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, by the Central Government 
by their Order of the Ministiy of Labour and Rehabilitation, 
No, S.O. dated 26th October, 1972. Ihe dispute relates to a 
single demand which is mentioned in the schedule to the 
said order. The Ankleshwar Taluka Kanidar Sangh has stated 
as follows .-— 

"That the parties have mutually settled the dispute out 
of the Couit. The Second Party, therefore, does 
not desire to proceed with the reference. ITie same 
may, therefore, kindly be disposed of accordingly”. 

In the circumstances, the reference does not stitvivc for 
adjudication and stands disposed of. 

Ahmedabad, 

3lst March, 1973, 

INDRAJIT Ci. THAKORE, Presiding Officer 
[No, L. 29011 (22)/72-LR IVJ 


S.O. 1296.—^In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby publishes the following award of the Industrial Tiibunnl 
Gujarat, Ahmedabad in the industrial dispute between the 
employers in relation to the management of M/s. Harjlbhai 
Prembhai and Brothers, Post Office, Kosamba, District Surat 
and their workmen, which was received by the Central Gov¬ 
ernment on the 21st April, 1973. 

BEFORE SHRT TNDRAJIT G. THAKORE. PRESIDING 
OFFICER, industrial TRIBUNAT AT AHMEDABAD. 

Reference (ITC) No. 10 of 19T2 
AD,TUDICATI0N 
BETWEEN 

Messrs. Harjlbhai Prcmjibhai and Brothers, Post Offic<- 
Kosamba, Dist. Surat. 

AND 

The workmen employed under It. 

Tn the matter of bonus for the Samvat Years 2025 and 
2026. 


AWARD 


This industrial dispute bctw'een the employers in relation to 
the management of Messrs. Harjlbhai Premjibhai & Brothers of 
Post Office Kosamba, District Surat and the workmen em¬ 
ployed under it has been referred to me for adjudication under 
Section 7A and clause (d) of sub-section (1) of Section 10 of 
the Industrial Di.sputes Actj 1947, by the Central Government 
by their Order of the Ministry of Labour and Reha ml Ration, 
No. S.O. dated 21st November, 1972. The dispute relates to a 
single demand which is mentioned in the schedule to the said 
order. In this matter the .Ankleshwar Taluka Kamdar .Sangh 
has slated as follows 


“That the .said matter has been settled between the parties 
outside the court Hence, the 2nd party does not 
desire to proceed with the matter. Hence the 
reference may be disposed off accordingly. 


1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 [Part 11— 


In the circumstances the lefercncc does not suivive for 
iidjudication and stands disposed of. 

INDRAJH' G. THAKORE, Piesiding Officer 
[No. L-2901]C24)/72-LR IV] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN, Under Secy. 

Ahmedabad, 

31st March, 1973. 

25 antV, 1973 

9rr. 31T. 1297.—ism arftriVrR, 1952 (1052 ^ 35 ) 

mir 6 TTwnr ( 1 ) ipi en ^ uti ^ 

53? '[If. tjET. ^ 

SR 151^ tfft 17^. '^1. fik, 3 it ffi ni[ ^ ^ WR 
m 'JR pofl' TPR tn SlfwfffRR 'R 

i!“, 29 1973 sfft 3lfl 'SHTEf 3frfijr fTO 

? 5 R iVn[ if I 

C'[-32013/l/7j''R,-n 

3117. 3rTf 

New Delhi, the 25th April, 1973 
S.O. 1297.—In cxerercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of section 5 of the Mines Act, 1952 (35 of 1952), 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri S. S. Prasad, 
Deputy Director General of Mines Safety, to be the Chief 
Inspector of Mines, for all the territories to which the said 
Act extends, on and from the 29th March, 1973 until further 
orders Vice Shri H. B. Chose, proceeded on leave. 

[A. 32013/1/73-MT] 
R. KUNJITHAPADAM, Under Secy, 


'T?' 21 1973 

«R. air. 1298.—TTR 1948 

(1948 ^ 34) 'ift um 73^ fTlTT Jfff'irr'fft ffiT imk 

^ ITRm 3^?- ^ *^!IvfTT7 ^ 

^ 'jm arftriWr ^ 3n.R«r i sifr 5 ^ 'jtw 

^ wiR 'jw iir^ 

arfvtffRR artRR 6-^ 4 artfiR 

^ f'TTik srfHTR ^ IRR tI, flT ^ ^ 

iRiRR tf? ffiiW # ITT! 3R?ir -I? rj;;3 

^ I 

[ffiT, if. 601(08)/70-'?ff aiT^] 

New Delhi, the 21st April, 1973 

S.O. 1298.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sec¬ 
tion 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 
of 1948), the Central Government, having regard to the 
location of the Text Book Press, Bhubaneshwar in an area 
in which the provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said 
Act are in force, hereby exempts the said Press from the pay¬ 
ment of the employer’s special contribution leviable under 
Chapter \’A of the said Act for a period of one year with 
effect from the date of publication of this notification in 
the ollicial Gazette. 

[F. No. 601(68)/70-HI] 
fffvvff, 21 anfV, 1973 

wi. 3it. 1299.—vrfenR aifr 

frrfv 'SrhrfffRR', 1952 (1952 ffff 19) WT (5W) ffff 3^- 
WT7T (2) ^RTT IRR ^ ffiTH B37 RTif 

iTTTFR 4 rfimn aiiV trrr (>iFT ^rfV t+jhth 

fffwr) 3rtvH;iRT if. tt . 3ff. 2S47 imW 24 i967 

sfri- ariWrR ffinf 835 in *4111 “sft 3 th, sr. it^ 


5. 



Sec. 3(ii) ] THE GAZETTE OE INDIA; MAV 5 , 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 l767 


Twr T? TfT, 'fJ'. ^nrcNr vrfw fTjfir 3rrq;jp?r 

^ ^T?wiTT ^ ^ ^rq, 

^3fT«pRT fn-^w f I 

W. ^12016Cl6)/73-^. w KDI 

S.O. 1299.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub- 
section (2) of section 5D of the Employcc.s’ Provident Funds, 
Family Pemion Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), and in super¬ 
session of the notification of the Government of India in 
the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation 
(Department of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2547 
dated the 24th July, 1967, the Central Government hereby 
^points Shrl S. P. Mehrotra as Regional Provident Fund 
Commissioner for the whole of the Union Territory of Delhi 
to assist the Central Provident Fund Commissioner in the 
discharge of his duties, vice Shri R. R. Sahac. 

[No. A-12016/16/73-PF. I(i)] 
WTo 1300 .— 5 lfsrfiThF, 1 048 ( 1948 
TT 34 ) >1?) 9TO TS'T STXr IRtT XtffRpfl 7T Spfpr 

pTux ( 1 ) Jr f^Orlw is T xg ix l 

^ ^ ( 3 ) if Woftrsj ^7?T % njl 

Jr, f^tTrir rjiRr stfirfhTm % 4 tfk .s ^ ^STxr^tr tr^ 

^jf) ^ Ripr Jf xt?^ ^nxTsrr^l 4fr Fftr- 

fipnr % irwpr 5 - 4 ; 'truhr rj^xr^Tr % Wt ttf»t4Pr 

^ 1T4PT Jr, Tmrftjg^ % Tpirw Jr wtvm >6) irrthff Jr rp: 

4^ 4 ?) 'tr^ftr ^ 4 T cw 44; % f 5 r 4 44 44; f 4 r ■?44 trftrPETtr 

^ xrwnrr 5 =344x4 44 ^ Jr, 4^ xrr^, 4 t »fr 4^ 


fX 


03 ^ ^1 


^4TTxtT4 

44X387# TI XTR 

1 

2 

3 

4 

1. 

4,4f5Xr4 


4MMIJ »T4 413434, 4434, 

#4473474,^43^^37 (^XTRTT) 

2 


^t3it7JX 

3)3 fsrfTTxr 47# 3#WT 

3. 



Xr'ffiUT T3%4; 4144, 7i#W- 

U.715SI8 1 

4 

tEiijxm 

ITxJrxTX 

' iv 

(4X7X31) 4il4I447T4 1 

5. 

W%nf|- 

4#X 

4^X 3T47rx I4#pf1 1 

6 . 

4174413 

4#43 

3774 x 3 1H ^XTxjlxr, 374.4 7 
4443 41X7413 1 

7. 

Wlx 

44X^1# 

#77# 44 x 51 x 7 # #14# 4717774'- 
M134VH l:rv3 #34 #147- 
^3l rHrx7#3, #0 1144, 

JSIdl 1 

a. 

TElfjxTxr 

4Wn^ 

#77# #70 7(40 3f(T34x 

f4f4#3, PTTXiJXnfl 1 

9. 


wrr%x1 

#77# 4fST47X 4743 3X777- 

# 4 # 1334 7(''3 r3r3X 




12 3 4 

10. r+4t1l4 MKWV #44 447X4#, 4X1^ 

«r45«K4t( 44# ^rX4'4) TT4^ 41x4444 

I 1. f«r^ 44T^fTf1 #3^ #f4XTTX4 1X43 =#14''T;4 

413434 


[ 4'5 rr^To J 8014 ( 6 )/ 73 -t( 4 o ITT^tj] 

S.O. 1301).—In e.vorcisc of the powers conferred by section 
73 F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 194S (34 of 
1948) the Central Government, having regard to Ihe location 
of the factories specified in column (4) of the Schedule hereto 
annexed in areas specified in column (3) of the said Schedule 
in the State of Kerala in which the provisions of Chapters 
IV and V of the said Act, are not in force, hereby exempts 
the said factories from the payment of employer’s special 
contribution leviable under Chapter VA of the said Act for 
a Period of one year from the date of publication of this 
notification in the Official Gazette or until the enforcement of 
provisions of Chapter V of the said Act in these areas, which 
ever is earlier. 

SCHEDULE 

SI. No. District Name of Area Name of the factory 


). Ernakulan Vcllurkunnam Mala Nadu Match 

Products, Kadath 
Mekkadanaru, 
Muvattupuzha 
(Via) 

2. Trichur Kcdungaliur Beat Budding Yard 

and Workshop 
Kudungallure, 

3. Ernakulatn Anchelpetty Threeking Electric 

Furnace, Anchol- 
etty, Erna- 
ulam. 

4. Emakulan Eramalloor Kalpana Match 

Industries, Nel- 
likuzhl, (via) Ko- 
thamangalam. 

5. Allcppcy Mannar Aluminium Industr¬ 

ies Limited Man¬ 
nar Post Office 
Alleppey. 

6. Palghat Kongad Jayachandra Match 

Industries, Post 
Kongad Pal 
ghat. 

7. Caimanore Kanhiredc M/s Kanhiredc We¬ 

avers Co-opera¬ 
tive production 
and sales Society 
Limited No. 1144 
Koodali. 


8. Ernakulam 

Kanayannur 

M/s O.E. N.India 
Limited, Mul- 

anthuruty. 

9. Kcttayam 

Kcunantheady 

M/s Pannier Power 
Station Vellathu- 
valand. 


Changanachery 

M/s Vijya Match 
and Timber In¬ 
dustries. 

10. Quilon 

Paravoor 

M/s Plarce, Para¬ 
voor. 


Thokkuinbagam 

M/s Kerala Sea 
foods Necndakara 

11. Trichur 

Vedakkumari 

M/s Resicnens and 
Chemical Prod¬ 
ucts. 


[No. S-38014/(6)/73-HI] 



1768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAlSAKHA 15, 1895 


^ 23 1973 

an-. 1301.—^: Hwrr nrr ft w f 

fsR fiTW ^ artf^rtn^ tVfrra- Fw^r 4 ?*w 

<7^, arterar, ^ 

E[? ^ntwi nnt^rt TTW #n- arfiif^rw, 1948 

(1048 «fT 34) ar#! f^^fnUTa^' 5Rft JTTT^: 

HET ^ I 

ara-;, arf, gw art^jfwr ^ wm 90 ffm sfitw^rt 
nn iTTtT ^ arft wrr frrfTR ^ »i;t^ sm, ftaw 
3rf7 <pr<jh-r wm-^r (frw arf? rtapTR ffNET) f-t 
?rwT 5fr, an. 2493, nrVter 24 1972 ^ ^ 

^nwf, ^TffWt Tm- >ftnT tVm ^ TOT^f ^ 

goV^qWn ^ tw arfntVm ^ 

it, 14 5iwft, 1973 it 13 armt, 1974 ira t^p^' ^ 

>tt iriWiVn f, T^fi aft? ^nf ntt amfy ^ 

^ ^ I 

[>7tr. 38017(ll)/72't?T. afTf^I 
New Delhi, the 23rd April, 1973 

S.O. 1301.—Whereas the Central Government is satisfied 
that the employees of the Small Industries Service Institutes, 
Industrial Estate, Okhla, New Delhi, belonging to the Central 
Government in the Ministry of Industrial Development are 
otherwise in receipt of benefits substantially similar to the 
benefits provided undec the Employees' State Insurance Act, 
1948 (34 of 1948). 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 90 of the said Act and in continuation of the noti¬ 
fication of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Employment and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2492 dated the 24th 
June, 1972, the Central Government, after consultation with 
the Employees' State Insurance Corporation, hereby exempts 
the above mentioned factory from all the provisions of the 
said Act for a further period of one year with effect from 
the 14th January, 1973 upto and inclusive of the 13th 
January, 1974. 

[No. 8-38017(11 )/72-Hri 
^ 25 1973 

«fT, 31T. 1.202.—»rfw fTfftr arf? tfWT 

^fftr 3fftltgw, 1952 (1952 ^ 10) unr 13 TU- 

tmr (1 m ^ htw 

=ii snr, r^mr? 3ff? wrynT (ptr 3ffV i+f- 

W ffVEl) ^ftinrw ¥f 'fT. aft, 2548 fnVte- 21 
1907 qsi 3fftDf7W ^ ^ q5?^ ?nfrR aft tft. %ThT 

<rf 3W aiftjfgw Off? gyTq5 artfN" fsnfw 

4i4’5itl ariVtr tf%g- 

triifwl fi hwt? =f? m 

WFET 4 ?mr 4 ^IT fwft ffTRpft, tifmed'T ?5ET ^ 

^ ^iT fWfw ^-^fiTT if- fwfi- piiw tf? ^iftr 

WltR- 4 WW ti" ^ ^ arftEP ?T?T 4' fVtIPT 

tiT wtstTtf fi', Tm ^ 

t \ 

Hi. tM2016(16)/73-»T. f^. 1(2)7 


[Fart IT— 


New Delhi, the 25th April, 1973 
S.O. 1302.—In exercise of the powers conferred by sub¬ 
section (1) of Section 13 of the Employees’ Provident Funds 
and Family Pension Act, 1952 (19 of 1952), and in super¬ 
session of the notification of the Government ot India in the 
late Minisiry of l.abour, Employment and Rchabiiitation 
(Dcpaitmcnt of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2548 
dated the 24th Jlily, 1967 the Central Govcinmeiit hereby 
appoint Shrl S. P. Mehrotra to be an Inspector lor the 
whole of the Union Territory of Delhi for the purposes of 
the said Act and of the Employees’ Provident Funds Scheme 
and the Employees' Family Pension Scheme framed Ihere- 
undei, in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under 
the control of the Central Citivcinmcnt or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a major 
port, a mine or an oilffeld or a controlled industry or in 
lelalion to an establishment having departments or branches 
in more than one State. 

[No. A-12016(16)/73-PF.I(ii)] 
^ 20 aniV, 1973 

tm. aff. isos.—^tf'diN ?Tf ?7 1948 (1048 

«FT 34) ^ tmr 73tT fTTTT iTTrT tfrfWrf qu wV ‘377# 

iTT^TR fpif ffd'e , Rhrp 

iVfsrw, tniW Rw tp-REiT# ^ ^ j#, gw 

ortytwTT ^ oiwtr 4 aiff 5 apr- 

fpifcT '?rt ?7T# §77 gw ^ gw arfirtti- 

W ^ m-qpT 5^ ^ 31^ ^ r g7i ft <l fjEltpRj 4 ^*27^ 

3rf»Tfrir 4 ^nrnr #, ^ Hnfi ^ nwr pf, 

TORR tf# rin^ # 7^ ^ ^ «it w 

w friR siftjtwTT ^ -31WT 5 5^ gwy gR 

4 JT^ lit Rf#, vrf IT# rf, ^ 

[Tri. #. 0O2(2O)/7O-qR. 

New Delhi, the 26th April, 1973 

S.O. 1303.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 73F of the Employees’ State Insurance Act, 1948 
(34 of 1948). the Central Government having regard to the 
location of the factory, known as Hindustan Aeronautics 
Limited, Nasik Division, Nasik, in an area in which the 
provisions of Chapters IV and V of the said Act are not 
in force hereby exempts the said factory from the payment 
of the employer’s special contribution leviable under Chapter 
VA of the said Act for a period of one year with effect 
fiom the date of publication of this notification in the 
Gazette of India or until the enforcement of the provisions 
of Chapter V of the said Act In that area, whicho'cr is 
earlier. 

[File No. 602(20)/70-HI] 
gi' 27 er#V, 1973 

w 31T. 1324,—trfwr fgftr ifRR 

fgfi aiftjfgw, 1952 (1952 ^ 19) <1# tfirr 13 gqti i H 
(1) fwr JREil tfrfwRt ^ Wr sp;?# T'3 ^ ’FIT R7tfiT7 
sTR, rhrm artV tpTfffp rwr (sir orfV t+srit 

frMFT) ^ 3rr«.lTpWT R. W 311. 3012, ffilla 29 ariTTR, 
1908 Rf? STR 3iiV RWTR (sir aff? tIrrt? iV^FT) 

R. 193 ffriW 10 3RR7^, 1973 tf#, ^tRfTRr 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: MAY 5, 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 1769 


Sec. 3(ii) ] 

^ 

sri^ artfN' jpIW^ 'rfw ofiV 

'^?R' '^'4' fir^rr ^ '^it 

\dti^ T'l'MM^iit/i'i T'^h+fl wTT^ ^ <H'>ttr 4^ ^ i^'Wf 

^r^TWFT, ^ ^ ^ ^ 4 

nVfW fWt WTT^ ^ 44y jf ^rr wfpt ^ 44h 

if fiTfr^ t??; 4 TTHrf 1^ ^HTFT '!TT jfiTCrn? ?1, 

sraTT, :ttW^ ariV 4 wt ^ ^thtI ?r»fT 

fiT^for ari^ ansnnw ir4?T 4 44r ^ f^nV^ 

?'i'q,'Ki I 

[4. 33(2)/68-<4. I7?:-1(2)] 
Twsfhr f4?, arr? trfd'T 

New Delhi, the 27th April, 1973 
S.O. 1304.-—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
sub-section (i) of section 13 of the Employees’ Provident 
f'unds and Family Pension Fund Act, 1952 (19 of 1952) 
and in supersession of the notifications of the Government 
of India, in the late Ministry of Labour, Employment and 
Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and Employment) No. 
S.O. 3012 dated the 29th August, 1968 and in the Ministry 
of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of Labour and 
Employment) No. S.O. 193 dated the 10th January, 1973, 
the Central Government hereby appoints Shri D. S. ThuFral 
to be an Inspector for the whole of the States of A.ssam, 
Manipur, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and the Union 
Territories of Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh for the pur¬ 
poses of the said Act, and the Employees’ Provident Fund 
Scheme and the Family Pension Scheme framed thereunder, 
in relation to any establishment belonging to, or under the 
control of the Central Government, or in relation to any 
establishment connected with a railway company, a major 
port, a mine or an oll-field or a controlled industry or in 
relation to an establishment having departments or branches 
in more than one State. 

[No. 33(2)/68-PF-I(ii)] 
DALJIT SINGH, Under Secy. 


^ 27 3i4V, 1973 

«itT. w. i306.^4fsr?T «rR- (WWr 3tf? 

1971 4 3 t)? (rp) ^ EPir ifSTT 4f4^ 9Ur 

atiV ywT^) <34Vi4w. 1970 (1970 'et 37 ) ^ 

tITTT 3 Wfl" ii l T ' iW^t ^ ^ 

’4*' 4 tmrRf rpi# ^ 'T^STK[ 4^. iNJlI'IH 

^ WFf Tt W. 41. RPTET ^ 4^r?r sw 

•ffe' ^ if ^ HT7?r ^ SET 

3rfV tpprftr JEfirNT («r>r aif^ g'^jin TViirt) 'p4 
4ott 5202 iirW 30 3rtRV«i7, 1071 4" ?dH?«ran 34V 
RTlhET 'fiRft 4* i 
3r»rfri; ;— 

ytRT affy^'iT'Tr 4^ w 4 mt 5 ^ rR444f 

^ ftfRf 97 ?HH?«?«id nfiTFitriW iWi ^stnyiT, 

31*4^ ;— 

“5. t?R. 4^. RTERrr, 

iVr RRRTT, eVt wk'), ^ fT54I I 

^ ^ TOf” 

['FT. 4. 16025(66)/72-q5r. 3{^.13 

viH'b'b ^^^rrai, 3PT7 HkPT 


New Delhi, the 27th April, 1973 

S.O. 1305.—In exercise of the powers conferred by 
section 3 of the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) 
Act, 1970 (37 of 1970), read with clause (d) of rule 3 of 
the Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Central Rules, 
1971, the Central Government, after consultation with the 
Railway Board, hereby nominates Shri S. C. Samant vice 
Shri V. C. Rajagopal as a member of the Central Advisory 
Contract Labour Board and makes the following fuithcr 
amendment in the notification of the Government of India 
in the Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department 
of Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 5207, dated the 30th 
October, 1971, namely;— 

In the said notification for serial No. 5 and the entry 
relating thereto, the following shall be substituted, namely:— 

“5. Shri S. C. Samant, Director, Traffic (Commercial), 
Ministry of Railways, (Railway Board), New Delhi, 

Representing the Railways”. 

[File No. S-16025/66/72-L’WH] 

LALFAK ZUALA, Under Secy. 

21 arrfVr, 1973 

•ITT. aiT. IS-ie.—>F5r^ 1948 (1948 

11) ^4 Bid 9 ^ RTB" nfo d vd 'Td sr^U^vrzpiT Bit I 
8 adV '%'idH iF3r^ «(411!4)11 1949 

4 3 ^wr RTw trr Wr 4rr4 

BTw, »TRir RTTTR STR a4V <^^44 44TPRr («Rr a4V 

TkmR aittR[;BRT 4 «rr. anr. 2373 , TTikr 19 5[;r, 

1972 4^ fREjtvltBra' RTlhEr 4*, Wit 

(jrw aifBWTdi 4" ‘?3 t4r 4W, Rn 1 

4 rir 4 >4 uniVd TRiR tR irfW 

RrW, afvfll :— 

" 1 . 4 4, arwv, ^ ^ 44, str a4V 

'^RrfR 4 mtmb (str adV tNrr f^niRr) r^ i" 

ariR^ 

[4. tJR. 32023C2)/72-«iv^ (1?T. 5*?^.)I 

5 Vi i I'd uH^i, am irfRT 

New Delhi, the 21st April, 1973 

S.O. 1306.—^In exercise of the powers conferred by sec¬ 
tion 8 of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (11 of 1948), 
read with section 9 of the said Act and rule 3 of the Mini¬ 
mum Wages (Central Advisory Board) Rules, 1949, the 
Central Government hereby makes the following amend¬ 
ment in the notification of the Government of India in the 
Ministry of Labour and Rehabilitation (Department of 
Labour and Employment) No. S.O. 2373, dated the 19th 
June, 1972, namely;— 

In the said notification, under the heading “Independent 
Persons" for the entries against item 1, the following entries 
shall be substituted, namely:— 

"1. Shri G. Venkat Swamy, Deputy Labour Minister, 
Ministry of I-abour and Rehabilitation (Depart¬ 
ment of Labour and Employment), New Delhi. 

Chairman”. 

[No. 8-32023(2)/72-WE(MW)] 
HANS RAJ CHHABRA, Under Secy. 



1770 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : MAY 5, 1973/VAISAICHA 15, 1895 


^ 24 aniv, 1973 

itT. arr. i307.-^T^ ^ m' f k §Tk 

kwl 'll wk 

''TTTT, ’ll W 1 3lf*7 '3 •I't' ^Tlf- 

'7^' ^ 4 kr ij'B afiykt^ ^ , 

ajf? ^RT: RRTTR TW 1W? ^ ^^TRfflTTlIVl ^ 

fk? ^iT^TT inHk iRTVrift if*, 

anr:, ar'r, artVkN^ k'n^ arikkw, 1947 (1947 ^ 

14) inrr 10 (i) ii (tr) ^‘wr nrw 
?rP'W<rl' 'fH' TRik 'iTTrl 'il'kk n<^i< arw 

«si arftrkRR- 'k vm 7-^ 'll ai#i Rfra- 
^"kk Rm? ajff'ittn'P srik^mr, 'k ^I'iiVnufiin 
^ kk 'tnkl' k 1 

“w kR 'TRR' kviR qkkw k 
'ir^ 'inflV^rf ‘ar’ aifi k’ ws'rf ^ k 'kS7 
^ RT k iJ'bk i ui aiHT mkij, '■'-iNikifl ^? 
*ik k, k ’krs ^ kk ^iii' k aik ik 

^7i?7 k WWrt <n WHiRiTk kkk, 
k^w tir ijkTkr ^ nk^ k krq (i) k’ 
iTn^ k k afiV akkrar «kw imror-^^ r«k 'nk 
(2) '«■’ W7 ark (3) k' WT jf ?kR--^- 
k? 'RT*!? k^ffi <rrT kk ^ikk?" 

[?ra«lT rRr'.-31011/8/72'k. k.] 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 24th April, 1973 

S.O. 1307.— Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an Industrial Dispute exists between the emp¬ 
loyers in relation to the management of Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters speci¬ 
fied in the Schedule hereto annexed; 

And, whereas, the Central Govertunent considers it desir¬ 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 

Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (d) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 

“Whether the demand that the 'B' and ‘C cadres of the 
engine room crews of the Port Department flotilla 
should be integrated into a single cadre is justified? 
If so, what should be the intcr-se seniority of the 
engine room crews borne on (i) the ‘A’ cadre and 
possessing the requisite diesel certificate, (ii) the 'B' 


[Part II— 

cadre and (iii) the ‘C’ cadre, for the purposes of 
regulating Eansfer, posting, appointment or promo¬ 
tion to vacancies in the integrated cadre to be made 
after the award is given?” 

[No. L-31011/5/72-P&D] 

3 inki 

7117 . aiT. 3308 .—'IF. 'ikfl'f BTTTR TT'T ^ k 317 k 
3 'in;'! k kkkk krtri sik rf *71^ 'rft 

RiRT, Jktkr k Tkikdif Tk ^- 

umf <fk ^ kVkkpT! fVm kf^TRiF ^ , 

ajk tRT: ^“kk FTTTR FW iW? k -‘iW?'dukH 

kn? kkkm ^rr^r ko ■fl'r tiwk ^ , 

aiF:, <ipr, km kykw, 1947 (1947 m 

14 ) k VT 7 T 10 k T'TUnr (i) *1^ orue (tr) htw 
kWrf ^ jmk 'TTik i^t), qkkF thttr wt 
km k e Tri kkk'Ri k urt 7-^ snik kVtr 
kkk tH'hi! ktpTrror, k j^tiwkkT 

^ kk kkkm ^rrk f 1 

1. yrr k ctft k risk ^ k ttipt k« 5 -flT ^ 

y'H|,w HT airom it knir stpit 

trWF ^ nkkr ^mri mUuj^ ikki' 

(anktcT) *t? qk 3^ k3 k^rr w nw ^ ^ 

knrr vr 7 

2. ^'iT'm Tik ^ k iiNi^ei.tik 2 3? tik 

k kwiTTf Tk (airkkr) ^ tk k 

krfrkkr sirT k? ^ 'ifiun- Haf g! ,;!!’ k ^- 
er«r Jiink innRk mm k m k, m-. 
k^kki; km kkknr, 1947 k tnir 9 'fi 
anJk 'ikkr k k^ kir frr krkkr 
'ITT imk ?k 3 ikr «it? 

w. trfr.- 37 oii/i/ 73 -'ft. tRiB k] 
'ft'. wTikkr, 3PTT kkr 

ORDER 

S.O. 1308.— 'Whereas the Central Government is of 
opinion that an Industrial Dispute exists between the emp¬ 
loyers in relation to the management of Bombay Port Trust, 
Bombay and their workmen in respect of the matters speci¬ 
fied in the Schedule hereto annexed: 

And, whereas, the Central Government considers it desir¬ 
able to refer the said dispute for adjudication; 



Sec. 3(ii)] THE GAZETTE OE JNDIA : MA\ 5^ 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by 
clause (cl) of sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947), the Central Government 
hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Bombay, constituted 
under section 7A of the said Act, 


^ Q tiT 


Wltn 


1771 


SCHEDULE 

1. Having regard to the fact that the selection has to be 

made on the basis of seniority-rtori-suitability, 
whether the manner in which selection was made 
by the Bombay Port Trust management to the 
posts of Mobile Crane Supervisor (Operative) was 
fair and proper? 

2. Whether the claim that the conversion of posts of 

Mobile Crane Driver, Grade n into those of 
Mobile Crane Supervisor (Operative) had curtailed 
the promotional opportunities available to Maz- 
doors and, therefore, it was illegal to have effect¬ 
ed the conversion without issuing a notice of change 
under section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 
1947, is correct? 

[No. L-310U/1/73-P&D] 
V. SANKARAT.INGAM, Under Secy. 

jpur <nr arnyw (iW^r) wr 
anVv 

^ 17 1973 

tfr. OT. 1369.—fflTW T)!vi ^ Pef. 

4 ^ ^ if 

31-12-1971 ^ IHTM yH >71^ fhsT ^ lVn{ 3PHf 

1 ^ ^ RTHT 'Dieii'tT'y ^ ^ Ten; yfHT 

arftjfffyiH 1906 tjRi 19 (w) artfNf 
f I 

3iiV ‘til ’ffy ttHittM ?f "irEt TV fV) B'H'h ^ 

'mfir TOT t, iN HRff ^ str- b' ^hthi 

t. '^-20(42)/65 fflV?^ 28 <3FTWr, 1963 

= 1 ? iiT«r irfsTT tmr 10 (g-) ^ 

ipl? JTTW" ^irffTFfT IFTfr ^ 27-l(t-1972 

'Et ^ *6^ ^rorihr «f?- 

^rhif^HTR" ^ mn 19 (S') ^ anffr ^ ifTFr 

^ 3ff?Hr drAr if 4 (awfr 31 - 12-1971 fPh) m 
3TT^ ^ ^ I 

31T ?lf gfW INFR- ^ fiFlkffi arft inf apf 

1 ^;^^ innfw snur f 1 


ffnf mrW'b'fH fV. 

911*1 fflid 

qfis' ^iriW, 

(nifffEl') 

[if. "f, q. 10(26/72 Eir. (tir. 13 
Office of the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 
ORDER 

New Delhi, the 17th April, 1973 

S.O. 1309.—Whereas an application has been made under 
section 19(b) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 by Messrs 
Parascole Coal Company Ltd. (employer) in relation to 
their establishments mentioned in the Schedule below for 
extension of the period for the payment of bonus to their 
employees for the accounting year ending on 31-12-1971. 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient reasons 
to extend the time I have, in exercise of the powers con- 
feiTCd on me by the proviso to clause (b) of Section 19 
of the said Act, read with the notification of the Goxem- 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour and Employment 
No. WB. 20(42)/65 dated the 28th August, 1965, passed 
order on 27-10-1972 extending the period for payment of 
the said bonus by the said employer by four months (i.e. 
up to 31-12-1972) from the last date for payment of bonus 
under clatisc (b) of Section 19 of the Act. 

Now this is published for information of the employer 
and all the employees of the said establishment. 

SCHEDULE 

Establishment(s) 

Name and address of 
the employer(s) 

M/s. Porascolc Coal Co, Ltd., 

Porascole Colliery, 

P. O. Kajoragram, 

(Burdwan) E. RIy. 

[No. BA. 16(25)/72-LS, 1] 


eeft, 23 1973 

>irr. 311. ijio,—fjnrat rt. Pifi. (IWn^) 4 
^ ^ if rNtt 3 nr 4 WRT 9? if 31-3-72 
Rtf fiMmr fW ^ fpn^ -wf qnfnifrrrt qtl RfiF 



Mil 

^ ^ atftT' 

1965 ^ tJTTT Weis') ^ 3r#r 3n^T=T t I 
lariV ^ ?mrapr jjt srnf t? t^p wf^ ^ f?iii 
^ aff^nr ?m% 4 C3r»rfer 31-3-73 

aftiRt;i-TT ?r. aft-20(42)/e6 rnftsr 28 arrror, i985 

^ ?TW T^W gw arfwfw^ ^ mn 19 'll (g-) ^ 
trr^ fmr ^ jww ^ifw^rf w ^ 

5-4-73 ^ gw fwiira fWT gw "^fw ^ hwi ^ 
iPTOntttr ^ ^ «m 19 mv (et) ^ ar^ 

i^tw ^ 5fwi ^ 3rfw wW 4 WM (arvf?r 31-3-73 

n^) ^ aii^'?r 51^ V'i ‘(1 ^ I 

3r«r {pt gw ww 4 fwfanp aifV ipfr wf^rtfr^rf' ^ 

i^;wT ^ fwtj ntpil^n fwiT arfiTT 4‘ 1 

fwtw^/fwiwrli w gw arfi WT wiw 

4W ?gw?rf w. fg'. 

grwian', (gfan) wgftwftg’, 

nT<^ arft 

ant^PW, 

[5r I?. ie(50)/72-W. 'TfT, 1 ] 

TT. ai'. i^sg' snr aiFjw 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 23rd April, 1973 
S.O, 1310.—^Whereas an application has been made under 
Section 19(b) of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965, by Messrs. 


[Part II—Sec. 3 (ii)] 

Tinjblo Private Ltd,, (employer) in relation to rheir citablisli- 
ments mentioned in the Schedule below for extension of the 
period for the payment of bonus to their employees for the 
accounting year ending on 31-3-1972. 

And whereas being satisfied that there are sufficient reasons 
to extend the lime I have, in exercise of the powers conferred 
on me by the proviso to clause (b) of Section 19 of the 
said Act read with the notification of the Government of 
India in the Ministry of Laboui and Employment No. 31^8,20 
(42)765 dated the 2Rth August, 1965, passed order on 5-4-1973 
extending the period for payment of the said bonus by the 
said employer by 4 months (i.c up to 31-3-1973; from the last 
date for payment of bonus under clause (b) of Section 19 of 
the Act. 

Now this is published for information of the employer and 
all the employees of the said establishment. 

SCHEDULE 

Name and address of the employcr(s) Establishmentfs) 

M/s. Timblo Private Ltd., 

Margao. 

Digniun, Codli, Pale, Salginim, 
Verlam Mines & Gurchorem Office. 

[No. BA. 16(50)/72-LS.I] 

R. J. T. D'Mello, Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) 


THE GAZETIE OP INDIA ; MAY 5. 1973/VAISAKHA 15, 1895 


PRINTED BY THE MANAGER GOVT. OF INDIA PRESS, RING ROAD, NEW DELHI, 
AND PUBLISHED BY THE CONTROLLER OF PUBLICATIONS^ DELin:-6, 1973 



