The Mizoram Gazette 
EXTRA ORDINARY 
Published by Authority 


REGN. NO. NE—313 (MZ) 


VOL. XXX _ Aizawl, Friday, 23. 11. 2001, Agrahayana 2, S.£. 1923, Issue No. 262 
——_———— ee OOOO en 
NOTIFICATION 


No.F.16011/17/85-GAD/Pt, the 19th November, 2001. In exercise of the powers 
conferred by Section 21 of the Mizoram Exhibition of Films on Television Screen 
Through Video Cassette Players Act, 1990, the Governor of Mizoram is hereby 
pleased to make and publish the Mizoram Exhibition of Films on Television 
Screen Through Video Cassette Players Rules, 2000. 


Further, as provided under Rule 1(3) of the Said Rules, the Governor of 
Mizotam is pleased to appoint that the Rules shall come ito force from the 
date of its publication in the Official Gazette. 


A copy of the said Rules is annexed. 


Yogaraja, 
Joint Secretary to the Gevt. of .Mizoram, 
General Administration: Department, 


THE MIZORAM EXHIBITION OF FILMS ON TELEVISION SCREEN 
THROUGH VIDEO CASSETTE PLAYERS RULES. 2000. 


In exercise of the powers conferred by: section. 21 of the Mizoram Exhibition 
of Films on Television Screen Through Video. Cassette Players Act, 1990, the Go- 
vernor of Mizoram is pleased to make the following rules for the regulation of 
the exhibition of films on television screen through Video Cassette Players, 


Namely- 


Ex—262/2001 2 


PART — I 
GENERAL 


1, SHORT TITLE, EXTENT AND COMMENCEMENT : 


(1) These Rules may be called the Mizoram Exhibition of Films on Televi- 
sion Screen through Video Cassette Players Rules, 2000. 


(2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Mizoram. 


(3) it shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by 
notification in the Official Gazette appoint. 


2. DEFINITIONS 


(1) In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires :— 


(a) 


(b) 


vik (oc). 


QQ 


(d) 
e) 


(f) 


(g) 


(4) 


“Act” means the Mizoram Bxhibition of Plime on Television Screen 
Through Video Cassette Players Act, 1990; . 


“Cinematograph”, includes an appatatus for the representation of 
moving pictures or sefies of pictures; 


“Films”. means a Cinematograph film recorded on video cassette 


tape/Laser disc/Compact disc; 
“Government” means the State government of Mizoram; _ 


“Licensing Authority” means the Deputy Commissioner of the 
District ; 


“Place” includes a house, building, tent and aay description to 


transport whether, by. water, land or air; 


“Video” means a cinematograph for giving exhibition of motion 
pictures through the use of any Video tape, video cassette or mes 
record; . 


“Video Library” > means a place by whatever name called where, 
the business of selling, letting, to hire, distribution, exchange of 
putting into circulation in any manner whatsoever of film for. Pe 


sas of exhibition is carried on. 


The words and expreations used, but not defined in these ae. shall 
have the meaning assigned to them in the Act. 


\ 


3 Ex~~262/2001 


PART — Il bee oe 
PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING LICENCE. : 


CONDITION FOR GRANTING OF LICENCE FOR VIDEO CASSETTE 
PLAYER AND VIDEO LIBRARY. 


(1) No person shall exhibits films on television screen through video cassette 
players or Laser/Campact Players on payment for admission basis in any 
place unless he has obtained a noeaes granted under these rules: 


Provided that a person who, immediately before the commencement 

of these rules, holds a licence under any instruction issued by the State 

- Government, shall-required to obtain a fresh licence within one month 

from such commencement or on the expiry of the lioence., held by him 

at the time of the commencement of these eat whichever” pened is 
earlier. ; 


(2) Nothing contained in sub-rule (1) shall apply to any exhibition of films 


Ae 


s 


“on Television screen through Video Cassette Eeye oo domestic purposes 
to the family. members on the housshol d. . 


(3) Save as otherwise provided in these rules, no ) person shall keep any Vi- 
deo Library except under, aud in =aeeance with a licence geo 
under these rules. 


{4) Where a person keeps more than one Video Litiary, Whether i in the same 
' town or village. or in. different towns or villa es, he shall . obiain a sepa- 
rate licence in respect of each such Video ‘Library. 


(5) Every licence for keeping a Video Library shall, save as otherwise pro- 


vided in these rules, expire oa the last day of the year. in which it was 
granied but may be renewed year to year.. 


” A licence for Video cassette player. shall: be. eivaua to such person 
having premises with not more cae fifty seating unas 


DURATION: OF ‘LICENCE “ 

(1) A licence to be granted under these rules shall be either for a fixed 

period of one year or a temporaty ticence for a period nat exceeding 

_ three months at a time but not saiciete SiX ments in sacNors in a 
ealendar YORE, ae 2 


(2) A licence for a period of one year . shall bz ‘granted . or renewed only in 
respect of a place permanently equipped for exhibition of films on tele- 
vision screen: through video | Cassette pore 

APPLICATION oe 


Every person desiring to. abla. a dienes under. these rules por” any place 


shall apply to the Licensing Authority in Form-I. . 


Ex—262/2001 4 


6. FEES 


7. 


The fees for a licence shall be :— 


(a) at hundred rurees in the case of a licence for a period of one year; 
an . 


(b) Ten rupees per week in the case of a temporary licence. 


LICENSING AUTHORITY TO OBTAIN REPORTS OF CERTAIN 
AGENCIES : 


Every application for granting licence for exhibition of films on Televi- 
sion screen shall be accompanied by documents certificates and reports from 
the following authorities baving jurisdiction in the area where the place for 
which the licence is to be granted is situated :— 


(a) No objection Certificate from the Sub-Divisiona! Officer (Civil) or the 


Block Development Officer or the Administrative officer concerned as 
the case may be, that there is a need for such a licence in the place for 
which the licence is sought and the exhibition of films will not endanger 
public safety. 


(b) A report from the Sub-Divisional Officer of the Public: Works Depart- 
ment is the concerned area :— 


(i) that the electrical installation in the building are reasonably adequate 
and safe for the exhibition of films; 


' (ii) that adequate provisions are made for sanitation, ventilation, light 
drinking water and. toilet etc., and 


(ii) provisions is made to install fire fighting equipment, | 
(c) A report from the Officer-in-charge of the nearest Police Station/Out- 


post that exhibition of films will not endanger enforcement of law and 
order, 


8. GRANT OR REFUSAL OF LICENCE 


(1) On receipt of the report of the authorities specified in rule 7, the licen- 
sing authority may, after taking into consideration the following matters, 
either grant or refuse a licence under these rules — 


(a) that the provisions of the Act and these rules are substantially 
complied with for exhibition of films; 


(b) that adequate secutity precautions of tue safeiy of the persons 
attending exhibition have been taken at the place where the films 
are to be exhibited; 


5 Ex-~262/2001 


(c) . that the interest of the public in general is not in any way preju- 
diced, and 


(d) that the applicant ‘is having good antecedents sid also possesses 
experience in exhibiting films: 


_. | Previded that before refusing a jicence, the licensing authority shall 
afford an opportunity of teing heard to the affected person. - 


EXPLANATION 


(1) For the purpose of these tules, the expression “antecedents” means “he 
conduct of the app:icant in ce’ation co the payment of any tax or any 
other dues payable by him to the State Government. 


_ (2) Where an application for the grant of a licence is ‘hiced: the order of 
~~ such refusal indicating the reason. ‘for such refusal shall be communi- 
cated to the applicart. 


_ (3) Where the application for the grant of a licence is not refused, the licen- 
sing authority may grant a licence in Form il within fifteen days from 
the date of recsipt of reports under Rule 7, subject to the provisions 
of the Act and the rules avd on suca terms aod c.nditions as may be 
set forth in the licence and also subject to such restrictions as it may 
deem fit te inipose; 


Provided that’ no licence shall be siaited for a building under these rules, 


if such building is worth accommodating more than fifty spectators at a time. 


(4) Every licence shall, unless previously suspended, ca. celled or tevoked, 
expire on the last day of the week of the month or of the month of the year 
specified at the time of granting or renewal of the licence, as the case may be. 


9, RENEWAL OF A LICENCE 


(1) An application in Forn-I for the renewel of a licence together with 
such fees as ts p2yable under rule 6 shall be made so as to reach the 
licensing authority not less than thirty days before the date Ou which 
the licence expired; — ; 


Provided that the licensing authority may entertain the application after the 
expiry of the said period but not later tha. fifteen days alter the expiry of the 
licence if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from 
applying for renewal within time. 


(2) If, on an application for renewal of a'lcence, the licensing” authority 
docs not, for any reason, before th: expiry of liccne:, ether renew of retuse 
to renew, it shall grant a temperary permit to tie appiicant subject to the 
cunditions of tne licence seugh! to’ be renewed and such temporary permit 


Ex-—-262/2001 Gee 


10. 


shali.be yalid for such period not exceeding two months as the 
authority may direct and during the period so specified, it shall be deem 
to be a licence for the purpose of these rules. 


GRANT OF A DUPLICATE LICENCE, 


_ If the licence ig defaced, lost, destroyed of become illegible, a licence may 
a a duplicate licence on an application challaa receipt of twenty five rupees. 


LICENSING AUTHORITY TO PERMIT CONSTRUCTION AND RECON- 


PART — ll 


STRUCTION OF BUILDING INSTALLATION OF ere ETC. FOR 
EXHIBITION OF FILMS. 


1h. 


12. 


13. 


(1) Any person who intends— 


(a) to use any place for exhibition of films on television screen through 
Video Cassette Players, or . 


(b) to use any site for constructing a building proposed to be given fer 
such exhibition of films shall make for application in Writing to the 
licensing authority for permission thereof together with such parti- 
culars as may be specified by the licensing authority. 


(2) The licensing aothority shall thereupon, after consulting the authorities 
specified under sub-rule (1) of rule 7 grant or refuse such permission. The 
provisions relating to licenses for exhibition of films on television screen 
through Video Cassette Players shall so far as may be apply to permission 


“ander this rule as well. 


MISCELLANEOUS 
PROHIBITION ON TRANSFER OF LICENCE 
A licenee granted under these rules shall not be transferged in any manner 
whatsoever without the approval of the licensing authority in writing. 
LICENCEE TO EXHIBIT ONLY CERTIFIED FILMS. 


(1) A licencee shall exhibit on televison screen through Video Cassette Player 
only the films which have been certified to be suitable for public exhibi- 
tion by the authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 and such films, when exhibited shall display the mark of the 
afoyesaid authority and the mark should not be altered or tempered with 
in any maoner. 


(2) No licencee shall exhibit any film which— 


(a) offends against good taste or decency; 
(b) contains critism of friendly countries; 


® 


7 Bx—262/ 2001 


. %) contains attack op religions or communities or yisyals or words con- 
temptuous of relgious groups o¢ which promote communal attitudes; 


‘- (4). contains anythings obscene, ‘defamatory, detiberate falge and sugges- 
tive innuendos and half-truths: 6 = © ss 


'” (@) is likly encourage or incites violence of contains anything against 
maintenance of law ard order or which promote anti—national atti- 
_ tudes; ; ss Ash Gals ea 
(f) contains anything amounting to contempt of court; : 
{g) contains aspersions against the integrity of the Presideat and the 
judiciary ; 
(h) contains anything affecting the integrity of the Nations; 


{i) criticizes, maligns or slanders any individual in person or certain 
groups, segments of social, public and inoral life of the country; 


{j) encourages superstition or blind belief; 


{k) denigrates women through the depiction in any manner of the figure 
of women, her form or body or any part thereof ia such a way as 
to have the effect of being indecent, or derogatory to women, or is 
likely to deprive, corrupt or iajure the public motality to deprive, 
corrupt or injure the pablic morality or morals; 


: (1) denigrates children; 


{m) contain visuals or words which reflect a slandering, ironical and 
snobbish attitude in the portrayal of certain ethnic, licguistic and 
regional groups; 


(n) contravenes the provisions of the Ciematograph Act, 1952. 


(3) The Licencee should strive to carry films which project women in a po- 
sitive leadership role of sobriety, moral and chatacter buliding qualities. 


(4) Films meant for adult should nermally be sereened after 10 p.m and 
before 6 a.m. 


(5) Care should be takem to ensure that films meant for childrea do not 
contain any bad Janguage or explicit scenes of violence. 


(6) Films unsuitable for children must not be screened at times when the 
largest number of children are viewing. 


14. CONDITIONS REGARDING SEATING ACCOMMODATION 


The licencee shall comply with the following requirements in respect of 
‘Seating accommodation etc., in a bulding— 


Ex—262/2001 8 


(a) the building licenced for exhibiting films on television Screen through 
Video Cassette Player shall not accommodate more than twenty per- 
sons per nine square metres excluding entrance passage, corridor, 
gangway and stage in the auditorium; 


(b) the distance between the television Screen and first row of seats 
shall not be less than ten feet; 


(c) there shall be a passage of 0.90 metres in width for ey two rows 
of the seating accommodation; 


. (d) the gangway shall not be less than 0.9 metre in width and shall be 
$0 sere? that no seat shall be battened together in complete 
engths; 


(e) the chairs shall be battened together in complete lengths; 


(f) there shall be an intervening space of atleast 0.35 metre between the 
back of one seat and the front of the seat immediately behind 
measured between perpendicular; 


_ (g) there shall be two door ways fitted with doo:s to open outwards; 


(h). there shall be opening of one and half square metres for every ten. 
Persons to ensure good ventilation. 


(i) there shall be an open space of twenty feet and the third side or 
parking of vehicles; 


 (j) there shall be provided such number of V’ater closets and urinals 
as may. be specified by the licensing authomty; 


there shall be provided one portable fire extinguisher of Carbon 
- Dioxide type of one Kilogra.. capacity and one bucket. of nine 
litres filled wth sand: and 


—_ 


(k 


() the drinking water sha'l be provided in such manner and in such 
quantity as may be specified by the jicensing auchority. 


15. CONDITIONS REGARDING ELECTRICAL INSTALLATIONS ; 


The builditig to be licensed under these rules sha.! con.ply with the following: 
Requiremedits in respect of electrical installations — — 


(a) the cables ef wire used stall be of 1.8. Mark and the wiring shall 
pass through conduct pipes; 


(b) there shall be a seperate circuit controle by a suitable linked 
swich for the suppsy of electricity taken to the auditoriuin; 


(c) there shall te used three pin plugs with the third pin effectively con- 
necied to the earth; 


9 Ex-—262/2001 


(d) there. shall.be installed an automatic ae regulater or stabilizer 
which can provide output voltage of.230 plus 6 per cent; 

(ce) there shall be proritee seperate circuits ws lights, fans and, other 

2 equipments; . 

(f) there shall be kept bunting a dimlight of about 5 waittsto 40 watts 
bulb placed at right angle sight of vision of the public throughout 
the exhibition of films; and 

(g) there shall be provided the extractors, exhaust fans in such manner 
az may be specified by the meennne authority. . 


16. REFUND. 


In the case of refusal to grent a licence or to renew a licence, as thé: case 
may be, a refund at the ate of one half of the total amount of the fee ‘paid 
shall be made to the application made by him within thirty days from the date 
of receipt or order refusing to grant or renew a licence; | —— 


Provided that if the applicant has preferred an appeal against the order of 
the licensing authority during the grant or renewal of a licence as the case may 
be, the refund, if any shail be made after the disposal of the appeal. 


FORM —I 
(See Rule—5) 


Application for Grant or Renewal of Licence for Exhibition of Films on ee 
sion through Video Cassette Player. es ; car ee 


To 
The Deputy Commissioner 
(Name of the District) 
Sir, Eee s 7 
I do hereby apply for grant/ renewal of licence for exhibition of 
films on television screen through video cassette et as 


1. Name 
2. Address 
3.. Is the application for the grant of licence? 


4. Details of place where the video appara‘us is proposed | to be installed? 
(a) Place;House No, :and grdareas: — 
Locality 
Village 
Town 
District 


(b) Is any thes or: business carried on the samie place where the Video 
shoms are to be exhibited? . 


Ex ~262/2001 °10 


—& Has licence for such. tae or business sig obtained from the 
“= ~ Sornpetent authority? - 
(ii) Whether by conducting tise sitibiton of ee on television 
screen through video cassette player the trade:or business for 
»which the licence has beer ae ig likely. to be affected? 


5. "Area in square metres of the— 
. (a).. Building —. 
(b) Auditorium 
(c) Passage and gangways 
(d) Urinals and water closets 


6... Whether necessary fee has been paid and: haat ene 
chailan have been enclosed? . 


(a) Challan No. and date 
(b) Amount deposited 
(c) Name of the Treasury 


7. Copy ‘of the entertainment ‘tax eiearance certificate. 


Signature of the applicant. 


FO R M—It “| 
deen: (Vide Rule-8(3)) | - 
Ticsigs to be sranted under the Mizoram. Exhibition of Filma on Television 
Screen through Video Cassette Player Rules 2000. 


1. Name of the licensee. 


2. Address 
3. Situation of the place. 
4, Area in square metres of ~ 
rd Building 
b) Auditorium 
(c) Passage and gangway 
(d) Urinals and water closets 
5. Special conditions, if anv, on which licence ig granted 
6. Period for which licence is to a in force 
7. Fee paid 
8. (a) Maximum number oe persons sernties 


(b) Maximum rate of admission allowed 
CONDITIONS OF THE LICENCE 
The Mizoram Exhibition of Films on Television Act, 1990 and the Mizoram 


‘Exhibition of Films on Television Screen through © ‘Video Sickie daca Rules, 
2000 and the conditions specified below :-— 


i Ex—262/2001 


(1) The Licence shall not exhibit or permit to be exhibited any film 


(2) 


(3) 


4) 


©) 


(6) 


7) 


{8) 


(9) 


other than a film which has been certified as suitable for public 
exhibition by the authority constituted under section 4 of Cinemato- 
graph Act, 1952 and which when exhibited displays the prescribed 
mark of the Central Board of film Censors and has not been altered 
or tempered with in any manner since such mark was affixed thereto. 


The licencee shall submit the synopsis of the film to the licensing 
authority forty eight heurs before exhibiting the same of Television 
Screen through Video Cassette Player if such a film has not been 
released and exhibited on the Cinema screen. 


No film suspended under section 6 of the Cinematograph Act, shall 
be exhibited. . 


The licencee shall not allow any film exhibited by means of cinema- 
tograph before 12.00 noon or after 10.00 pm or as may be specified 
by the Licensing Authority, except in transport vehicle. 


The licencee shall not exhibit advertisemeat slides relating to sexual 
diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorder or purporting to 
assist the childless in getting children. 


The licencee shall not exhibit or cause to be displayed any photog- 
raph, picture or poster which depict or represents or purports to 
represent or depict a scene or short which has been excised from any 
film under the order of the Central Board of film Censors of the 
Central Government. 


Smoking and consumption of alcoholic liquor during the exhibitioa 
shall not be permitted. 


The number of persons admitted er the number of tickets issued 
into any part of the auditorium shall not exceed the number speci- 


fied in the licence. ; 


The licencee shall not permit obscence or objectionable posters or 
pictorial publicity material to be displayed im the licensed premises. 


(10) The licencee shall rot exhibit or permit to be exhibited to aay 


person who is not an adult any film which has been certified by 
the Central Board of Filni Censors as suitable for public exhibition 
restricted to adults. 


Deputy Commission:r. 


Published and Issued by the Controller, Printing & Stationery, Mizoram. 


Printed at the Mizoram Govt. Press, Aizawl (C.—700 


