t r« 


REGISTERED No. d. m 


1 *oi* 



lARY 


of Into 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


No, 7] 


NEW DELHI, SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1966 


None* 


The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were 

published upto the 5th February 1955: — 

Issue 

NO. 

No. and date 

Issued by 

Sub!* 

13 

No. 78(l)T.B./54, dated the 
2nd February 1955. 

Ministry of Commerce and Resolution on the Tariff Commission’s 

Industry. report relating to the Dyestuff Indus^ 

try. 


No. 78(l)T.B./54, dated the 
2nd February 1955. 

Ditto. 

Rates of customs duty leviable on cer- 
tain articles when imported into 
India or into the State of Pondicherry. 

14 

No. 3-ITC(P.N.)/55, dated the 
3rd February 1955. 

Ditto. 

Import of Caustic Soda [S. No. 22(a) of 
Part V] during the licensing period 
January- June 1955. 


No. 4-ITC(P.N.)/55, dated the 
3rd February 1955. 

Ditto. 

Import policy for light Soda Ash (S. 
No. 26/V of the I.T.C. Schedule.) 


No, 5-ITC(P.N.)/55, dated the 
3rd February 1955. 

Ditto. 

Import policy for Sodium Bicarbonate 
(S. No. 22/V of the I.T.C. Schedule) 
for the licensing period January-June 
1955. 

15 

No. 6-ITC(P.N.)/55, dated the 

4th February 1955, 

Ditto. 

Import of Urea, Ammonium Sulphate/ 
Nitrate and Nitrochalk falling under 
[S. No. 40(e)/V] ‘Nitrogenous Ferti- 
lizers’. 

16 

No. 7-ITC(P.N.)/55, dated the 

5th February 1955. 

Ditto. 

Import of Diesel Engines of R)oad 
Vehicular type falling under [S. No. 
30(e) /II] for the period January- 
June 1955. 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on Indent to the Manager of Publicatlomi 
Civil Lines, Delhi, Indent? should be flubmittod 90 M to mob the Manager within ten days of the date of isaue ol 
these Gazettes, 


1— SucriOM i. — Notification* rotating to 
Non- Statutory Rule*, Regulation* and 
Order* and Kwohitlons issued by ths 
Ministries of the Government of India 
(othet than the Ministry of Defence) 
and by the Supreme Court 
1 — Section a. — Notifications regarding 
Appointments, Promotions > Leave, 
ate., ot Govemmem Officers Issued 
by the Ministries of the Government 
of India (other than the Ministry of 
Defence) and by the Supreme Court 
I — Sbctioh 3. — Notification* relating 
to Non- Statutory Rules, Regulatona, 
Orders and Resolutions issued by the 
Ministry of Defence . 

I — Section 4* — Nodflcadonc regarding 

Appointments, Promotions, Leave, 
etc., of Offlocra Issued by the Ministry 
of Defence 

II — Shction l. — Acts, Ordinances and 

Regulations •*. 

II — Section 2. — Bills and Reports of 
Select Committees on Bills — 

II— Section 3. — Statutory Rules and 
Orders nerdfled by the Ministries of 
the Government of India, other than 
the Ministry of Defence, and Central 
Authorities, other than the Chkf 
Commtetloncr 

Part II — Section 4, — Statutory Rules and 
Orders notified by the Ministry of 
Defence .=* •_ *- — 


Parr 

PART 

Part 

Part 

Part 

Part 

Part 


PAGES 


49—73 

65—75 

Nil 

29—32 
Nil" f 
Nil 


297—319 

41—47, 


Part III— Sbgiiom i. — N otifications iocued 

by the Auditoi Gcnerol, Union Public 
Service Commission, Railway Ad- 
ministrations, High Courts, and the 

Attached and Subordinate offices of 
the Government of India ( Publithgd 
at Simla ) — . _ 

Part III — Section a. — Notifications and 

Notices Issued by the Patens Office 
Calcutta (PublUhtd at Simla) 

Part III— Section 3, — Notifications Issued 

by or under the authority of Chief 
Commissioners (Publuhsd at Simla ) 


Fart III — Sbction 4.— Miscellaneous 

fi cations (PubHthtd at Simla ) 


Noti- 


Part IV — Advertisements and Notices by 

Private Individuals and Corporations 
( Publithsd at Simla) 


Supplement No* 7— 

Reported attacks and deaths from cholera., small- 
pox, plague and typhus in districts in India 
during the week ending 15th January 
1955 ■ 

Births and death* from principal diseases in 
towns with * population over 30,000 in 
India during the week ending 15th 
January* 1955 


Parrs 


99—110 


3i-45 


69 — 84 


67-69 


13—14 


89-93 


94—99 


( 49 ) 


5 ° 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12 , 1955 


[Part I— Sec. 1 


PART I — Section 1 

Notifications relating to Non-Statutory Buies, Regulations and Orders and Resolutions issued 
by the Ministries of the Government of India (other than the Ministry of Defence) and bj 

the Supreme Court 


OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY TO THE PRESIDENT 

New Delhi , the 7th February 1955 

No. 9-Pres./55. — In consequence of misconduct, the 
award of the Police Medal for gallantry to Guru- 
swamy Jayarama Reddy, e:c-Constable No. 1257, 
Special Armed Police, Madras, which was announced 
in the Secretary to the President’s Notification 
No. 24-Pres./51, dated the 1st June 1951, is hereby 
cancelled. 

C. S. VENKATA CHAR, 
Secretary to the President. 


Chartered Accountants 
New Delhi , the 12 th February 1955 

No, 55-CA(l)/55, — In pursuance of sub-section (1) 
of Section 13 of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, 
(Act XXXVIII of 1949), the Council of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of India is pleased to accept 
the resignation of Shri P. D., Kasbekar. I.A.S., Deputy 
Secretary to the Government of India, Ministry of 
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, New Delhi, 
from the membership of the Council of this Institute 
with effect from the 12th February 1955. 

N. R. MODY, President. 


THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 
OF INDIA 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

No, 4-CA(l)/54, — In pursuance of Regulation 12 of 
the Chartered Accountants Regulations, 1949, it is 
hereby notified that in exercise of the powers conferred 
by clauses (a) and (c) of sub-section ( 1 ) of section 20 
of the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, the Council of 
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India has 
removed from the Register of Members, with effect 
from the dates shown against their names, the names 
of the following gentlemen, namely: — 


s. 

Mem- 


Date of 

No. 

bership 

No. 

Name and Address 

removal 


Under Section 20 (i)(a ) — at owi request 


1 


1440 


Mr. Robert Douglas, C/o 
Burmah- Shell, General Ma- 
nager’s Office, Post Box 
No. 688 , Bombay. 


31-1-1955 


Under Section 20 ( i)(c ) — by death 


2 

2657 

Shri Muhammad Safdar 

16 - 8-1954 


Hussain, Appellate Assistant 
Commissioner of Income- 



1 


Tax^Quetta. 



New Delhi , the 3rd February 1955 

No. 8-CA(l)/54,— In pursuance of clause (3) of 
Regulation 10 of the Chartered Accountants Regula- 
tions, 1949, it is hereby notified that the Certificates 
of Practice issued to the following members shall 
stand cancelled during the period shown against their 
pames, namely: — 


s. 

No.' 

Mem- 

bership 

Number 

Name and Address 

Period during 
which the Certi- 
ficate of Practice 
shall stand 
cancelled 

I 

2853 

Shri Vinayak Govind Bhat, 
No. 3 , Air Force Academy, 
Rcdficlds, Coimbatore. 

17-10-54 

to 

30-6-1955 

2 

1618 

Shri Onkar Nath Gupta, C/o 
M/bi Ranjit Singh & Song, 
Esplanade Road, Delhi. 

1-2-1955 

to 

30-6-1955 


E, V. SKINIVASAN, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

No. 51-Cot,Ind.(l) /52. — Shri U. S, Malllah, M.P., a' 
member of the All-India Handicrafts Board, has been 
appointed as Additional Vice-Chairman of that Board. 

2 The Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Commerce 
and Industry in charge of Cottage Industries, has been 
appointed ex-officio member of the All-India Handi- 
crafts Board in nlace of the Deputy Secretary in the 
Ministry of Commerce and Industry in charge of 
Cottage Industries. 


MRS. P. JOHARI, Dy. Secy. 


Patents and Designs 
New Delhi , the 8 th February 1955 
No. 14(l)TM&P/55. — The following draft of certain 
further amendments in the Indian Patents and Designs 
Rules, 1933, which it is proposed to make in exercise 
of the powers conferred bv sub-section ( 1 ) of section 
57 and sub-section (1) of section 77 of the Indian 
Patents and Designs Act. 1911 (H of 1911) is published 
as required by sub-section (2) of the said section 77 
for the information of all persons likely to be affected 
thereby; and notice is hereby given that the said 
draft will be taken into consideration on or after the 
15th March 1955. Any objections or suggestions which 
may be received from any person with respect to the 
said draft before the date so specified will be consider- 
ed by the Central Government: — 

Draft amendments 
In the said Rules— 

1. In the First Schedule, for entry 20 and all other 
entries relating to it, the following shall be substi- 
tuted, namely: — 

“26 On request to 16, 10 3-0-0” 

register design under 
Section 43 or 78A. 

2, In Forms 15 and 10 In the Second Schedule, for 
the heading 

“Fee Annas 8 or Rs. 3 according to class”, the 
following shall be substituted, namely: — 

“Fee Rs. 3 

K. N. SHENOY, Dy. Secy. 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

New Delhi, the 31st January 1955 

No. F.7-2/55-LSG1). — In pursuance of the provisions 
of para. IX of the Rules and Regulations of the Central 
Council of Gosamvardhana, the Central Government 
is pleased to nominate the following persons as mem- 
bers of the Executive Committee of the aforesaid 
Council with effect from the 25th February, 1055: — 

Under Clause 2(4) 

1 Shri Brahm Dut Bhargava. 

Under Clause 2(6) 

1. The Director of Veterinary Department, Hyderabad 
State. 

2. The Director of Animal Husbandry and Warden of 
Fisheries, Punjab State. 

S, D. UDHRAIN, Under Secy. 



Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 9th February 1955 

No. 2/1/55-Judl.I. — The President has learnt with the deepest 
regret of the death on Wednesday, the 9th February, 1955, of 
Shri Ganpat Sakharam Rajadhyaksha, Judge of the Bombay 
High Court. By his death the country has lost an able and 
trusted public servant who served with distinction in various 
judicial capacities. 

2. Shri Rajadhyaksha was born in 1896. He joined the Indian 
Civil Service in 1920 and was appointed a Judge of the Bombay 
High Court in 1943. Thereafter, the Government of India 
utilized his services on several occasions for work on various 
important Commissions. In 1946, he was appointed to adjudi- 
cate in a dispute relating to the Posts and Telegraphs Depart- 
ment and later in another dispute between the Railway Adminis- 
tration and their workmen. In 1947, he was appointed as Mem- 
ber of the Income Tax Investigation Commission. In 1950, he 
served as Chairman of the Air Transport Enquiry Committee. 
In 19'51, he was appointed sole member of the Fertiliser Enquiry 
Committee. From 1952 to 1954, he presided over the Press 
Commission, whose valuable report is now under the considera- 
tion of the Government of India. Finally, towards the end of 
1954, he was appointed as sole member of the Bank Award Com- 
mission and he was engaged on this task when his untimely 
death occurred. 

3. His patient and sympathetic approach, his careful sifting 
of facts and his ability to enter into the minds of all concerned 
earned for him the confidence of all parties and his judgment 
was therefore frequently sought. 

4. The Government of India wish to record their appreciation 
of the valuable services rendered to the Government and the 
public by this distinguished Judge. 

A. V. PAI, Secy. 


52 


THE GAZETTE OP INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1BBS [Part I— Sec. 1 


RULES 

New Delhi, the 12 th February, 1955. 


No. 20 /S8/54- AIS ( 1) .— The rules for a competitive 
examination- to be held by the Union Public Service 
Commission in. September 1955 for the purpose of 
filling vacancies in the following services are with the 
concurrence of the Ministries concerned and the 
Comptroller and Auditor General of India in respect 
of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service, published 
for general information: — 

(1) The Indian Administrative Service, 

(2) The Indian Foreign Service, 

(3) The Indian Police Service, 

(4) The Indian Audit and Accounts Service, 

(5) The Indian Defence Accounts Service, 

(0) The Indian Railway Accounts Service, 

(7) The Indian Custom? and Excise Service, 

(8) The Indian Income Tax Service (Class I), 

(9) The Transportation (Traffic) and Commercial 

Departments of the Superior Revenue 

Establishment of Indian Railways, 

(10) The Indian Postal Service (Class I), 

(11) The Military Lands and Cantonments Service 
(Class I and Class II), and 

(12) The Central Secretariat Service (Grade ni). 

2. The examination will be conducted by the Union 
Public Service Commission in the manner prescribed 
in Appendix II to the Rules. 

3. Candidates will be considered in order of merit 
for appointment to the vacancies in the Services that 
are decided to be filled and for which they may be 
eligible* 

Provided that in the case of the Indian Admlnifl- 
trative/Police Service, any candidate belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes declared 
by the Commission to be suitable for appointment 
thereto with due regard to the maintenance of efficien- 
cy of administration shall be entitled to be appoint- 
ed to vacancies reserved for members of the Sche- 
duled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, as the case 
may be, in these Services. 

Provided further that a candidate who competes for 
the Indian Police Service and secures a sufficiently 
high place for appointment to that Service will not 
be offered an appointment to any other Service lor 
which he may have completed and qualified except the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service* 


In view of the impending separation of Audit and 
Accounts and other reforms, the Constitution of the 
Indian Audit and Accounts Service is .liable to un- 
dergo changes and any candidate selected for that 
Service will have no claim for compensation in con- 
sequence of any such changes and will be liable to 
serve either in the separated Accounts Offices under 
the Central or State Governments or in the Statutory 
Audit Offices under the Comptroller and Auditor 
General and to be absorbed finally if the exigencies 
of service require it in the cadres on which posts in 
the separated Accounts Offices under the Central or 
State Governments may be borne. 


Due consideration will be given to the preferences 
expressed by a candidate at the time of his applica- 
tion, but the Government of India reserve the right to 
assign him to any Service for which he is a candidate. 


Note. — A list each of communities/tribes recogni- 
sed as Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes is given In 
Appendices V and VI respectively to these rules. 


(ii) A candidate for any other service must have 
attained the age of 21 and must not have attained the 
ago of 24 on the 1st August 1955, i.e, he must have 
been born not earlier than 2nd August 1931 and 
not later than 1st August 1934. 

(b) (i) In the case of the Indian Audit and Accounts 
Service and other Accounts and Allied Services, and 
of the Indian Income Tax Service, Class I, a Govern- 
ment servant who is over the age of 24 and under 
the age of 27 on the 1st August 1955, and either holds 
substantively a permanent appointment or has been 
in continuous service for a period of not less than 
two years on 1st August 1955 in a Department or 
Office under the control of any of the authorities 
mentioned in column 1 below may be admitted to the 
examination for the corresponding Service mentioned 
in column 2, if he U recommended by the Head of 
his Department:— 


i 


2 


Accountant General concerned. 


Commissioner of Income-tax, 


Controller General of Defence Ac- 
counts, 

Financial Advisers and Chief Ac- 
counts Officers of State Railways, 

Financial Advisers and ^Chief 
Accounts Officer, State Railways 
Coal Department and Director, 

Railway Clearing Accounts office. 

Collector of Customs or Collector India Customs and 
of Central Excise, Excise Service* 

Nom — In the case of Income-tax Department, a 
probationary Class II Income-tax Officer appointed 
against a temporary Training Reserve Post will also 
be eligible for this concession irrespective of the length 
of his service therein. 

(ii) In the case of the Indian Postal Service, Class I 
a Government servant, who is over the age of 24 and 
under the age of 27 on the 1st August 1955 and either 
holds substantively a permanent appointment or has 
been In continuous service for a period of not less than 
2 years on the 1st August 1955, In the subordinate or 
ministerial staff subject to the administrative control 
of a Postmaster General or a Director of Posts and 
Telegraphs, except staff of the Telegraph Engineering, 
Traffic and Wireless Branches, may be admitted to the 
examination if he is recommended by the Director 
General, Posts and Telegraphs. 

(iii) No Government servant will be admitted to 
the examination if he has already appeared at 
two previous examinations under the age concession 
applicable to candidates for the Accounts and Allied 
Services and the Indian Postal Service, Class I as a 
Government servant. 

(iv) An Assistant of the Central Secretariat Service 
who is over the age of 24 and under the age of 27 on the 
1st August 1956 may also be admitted to the examina- 
tion to compete only for the Central Secretariat Service, 
Grade III. if he is recommended by his Department 
provided that in the case of a temporary Assistant, he 
must have rendered continuous service as an Assistant 
for a period of not less than three years on the 1st 
August 1955 and his service is certified as “satisfac- 
tory” by the Department or office concerned. 

Note 1.— The upper age-limit prescribed in all the 
above cases will be relaxable: — 

(i) upto a maximum of three years if a candidate 
belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled 
Tribe or is a bona fide displaced person from 
Pakistan or from the unliberated areas of 
Jammu and Kashmir. 

(il) upto a maximum of six years if a candidate 
belongs to a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled 
Tribe and is also a bona fide displaced person 
from Pakistan or from the unliberated areas 
of Jammu and Kashmir. 

(iii) upto a maximum of three years if a candidate 
belongs to Chandernagore and has been re- 
ceiving his education through the medium of 
French. 


Indian Audit & Accounts 
Service. 

Indian Income-tax Ser 
vice. Class I. 

Indian Defence Accounts 
Service* 

Indian Railway Account* 
Service. 


4. (a) (i) A candidate for the Indian Police Service 
must have attained the age of 20 and must not have 
attained the age of 24 on the 1st August 1966, i.e.. 
he must have been bom not earlier than 2nd August 
1931 and not later than 1st August 1035, 


N.B. — Displaced persons from Pakistan or the unlib- 
erated areas of Jammu and Kashmir will be eligible 
for this age concession for admission to any examina- 
tion which may be held up to the end of December 



ParJe I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


53 


Note 2. — Candidates who are admitted to the exa- 
mination under the age concessions mentioned in claus- 
es (i), (ii) and (iv) above will not be eligible for ap- 
pointment if, after submitting the application, they 
resign from service either before or after taking the 
examination. They will, however, continue to be 
eligible if they are retrenched from the service or 
post after submitting the applications. 

IN NO OTHER CASES CAN THESE AGE LIMITS 
BE RELAXED 


6* (a) A candidate for the Indian Administrative 
Service and Indian Foreign Service must hold a degree 
in Arts, Science, Commerce, Agriculture, or Engineer- 
ing of one of the Universities enumerated in Appendix 

A candidate holding the LL.B,, degree of Bombay 
University (revised course) is also eligible for the 
Indian Administrative Servlco and Indian Foreign 
Service. 

Candidates, who hold LL.B. degree of the Bombay 
Uriiversity (revised course) but were exempted from 
any of the papers of the prescribed course on the 
ground of their being members of the University 
Officers’ Training Corps or National Cadet Corps, will, 
however, not be eligible for the Indian Administrative 
Service and Indian Foreign Service. 

Note. — Any question whether a candidate is 
educationally eligible for admission to the examination 
shall be decided by the Commission, whose decision 
will be final. 


(b) A candidate for the Indian Police Service must 
hold a degree of one of the Universities enumerated 
in Appendix I or have passed the Cambridge Higher 
School Certificate examination. 

(c) A candidate for the other services except for the 
Transportation (Traffic) and Commercial Departments 
must be a graduate of one of the Universities enume- 
rated in Appendix L 

(d) A candidate for the Transportation (Trafic) and 
Commercial Departments of the Superior Revenue 
Establishment of Indian Railways must — 

(i) hold a degree of one of the Universities enu- 
merated in Appendix I; or 

(H) have passed Sections A and B of the Associate 
Membership examination of the Institution of 
Engineers (India); or have such educational 
qualifications as are now or may subsequently 
be recognised by that Institution as exempting 
candidates from passing Sections A and B of 
that examination; or 

(ill) hold the Associateship or Fellowship of the 
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore; or 


(iv) hold the Hons. Diploma in Civil, Mechanical 
or Electrical Engineering of the Loughborough 
College, Leicestershire. Such a candidate must 
have passed the common preliminary exami- 
nation or must have been exempted there- 
from. 


(e) In exceptional cases the Union Public Service 
Commission may treat a candidate, who has not any 
of the foregoing qualifications, as a qualified candidate 
provided that he is recommended by the Central 
or a State Government and has passed examinations 
conducted by other institutions, the standard of which 
In the opinion of the Commission, justifies his ad- 
mission to the examination. 

Note. — Candidates who are otherwise qualified but 
who have taken degrees from Foreign Universities 
which are not included in Appendix 1, may also apply 
to the Commission and may be admitted to the exa- 
mination at the discretion of the Commission. 

0 (a). For the Indian Administrative Service and 
the Indian Police Service, a candidate must be a citizen 
of India not ordinarily residing in the State of Jam- 
mu and Kashmir. 

Note. — Displaced persons who have migrated from 
areas which now form Pakistan or who have come 
away from the unliberated areas of Jammu and 
Kashmir with the intention of permanently settling 
down in any of the States in India except Jammu ana 
Kashmir will also be eligible to apply. 

i 

(b) For other Services a candidate must be — 

(i) a citizen of India, or 
(il) a subject of Sikkim, or 

(iii) a person who has migrated from areas which 
now form Pakistan with the intention of per* 
manently settling in India, or 

(iv) a subject of Nepal or of a Portuguese or a 
former French possession in India. 


Note. — The appointment of candidates in cate- 
gories (lii) ana (iv) above will be subject to the 
issue of certificates of eligibility in their favour by the 
Government of India. Certificates of eligibility will 
not however be necessary in the case of candidates 
belonging to any of the following categories : 

(1) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 
beforo 19th July 1948 and have ordinarily 
been resident in India since then. 

(2) Persons who migrated to India from Pakistan 
after 18th July 1948 but before 30th Septem- 
ber 1948 and had got themselves registered 
as citizens within the time allowed, 

(3) Non-citizens who entered service under the 
Government of India before the commence- 
ment of the Constitution viz., 20th January 
1950 and who have continued in such service 
since then. Any such persons who re-entered 
or may re-enter such service with a break, 
after the 20th January 1950, will however 
require certificates of eligibility in the usual 
way. 

7. No male candidate who has more than one wife liv- 
ing shall be eligible for appointment to any of the Ser- 
vice appointments to which are made on the results 
of this competitive examination unless the Govern- 
ment of India after being satisfied that there are 
special grounds for doing so, exempt any male can- 
didate from the operation of this rule. 

8. It will be open to the Government of India not 
to appoint to the Indian Administrative Service/ 
Indian Police Service a woman candidate who is mar- 
ried or to require such a candidate who is not mar- 
ried to resign from the service in the event of her 
marrying subsequently, if the maintenance of the effi- 
ciency of the Service so requires. 

9. For the Indian Foreign Service a woman 
candidate is eligible only 2 she is unmarried or a 
widow without encumbrances. If such a candidate is 
selected, she will be appointed on the express condition 
that she might be called upon to resign from the ser- 
vice on marriage or re-marriage, 

A male candidate, married to a person of a na- 
tionality other than his own, will not ordinarily be 
appointed to the Indian Foreign Service. If a candi- 
date, after appointment to the Indian Foreign Service, 
proposes to marry a person of a nationality other than 
his own, he must notify the Secretary* Ministry of 
External Affairs of his intention. The Government of 
India reserve the right to require him to resign if he 
marries such a person. 

10. A candidate must be in good mental and bodily 
health and free from any physical defect likely to 
interfere with the discharge of his duties as an officer 
of the Service. A candidate who after such medical 
examination as Government or the appointing autho- 
rity, as the case may be, may prescribe is found not 
to satisfy these requirements, will not be appointed. 
Only such candidates as are likely to be considered 
for appointment will be medically examined. 

Note. — In order to prevent disappointment candi- 
dates are advised to have themselves examined by a 
Government medical officer of the standing of a Civil 
Surgeon, before applying for admission to the exa- 
mination, Particulars of the nature of the medical 
test to which candidates will be subjected before 
appointment and of the standards required are given 
in Appendix VII. 

11. Success in the examination confers no right to 
appointment, unless Government are satisfied after 
such enquiry as may be considered necessary, that 
the candidate is suitable in all respects for appoint- 
ment to the Service. 

12. The decision of the Commission as to the eligi- 
bility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to 
the examination shall be final, 

13. No candidate will be admitted to the examina- 
tion unless he holds a certificate of admission from 
the Commission. 

14. Candidates must pay the fees prescribed in Ap- 
pendix III. No claim for a refund of any of these 
fees will ordinarily be entertained except to the ex- 
tent stated in the Appendix nor can they be held in 
reserve for any other examination or selection. 

15. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to obtain 
support for his candidature by any means may dis- 
qualify him for admission. 

10. A candidate found guilty of impersonation or 
of submitting fabricated documents or documents 
which have been tampered with or of making state- 
ments which are incorrect or false or suppressing 
material information or of using or attempting to use 
unfair means in the examination hall or otherwise 
resorting to any other irregular or improper means 
for obtaining admission to the examination may, in 



54 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1055 


[Part I— Sec* 1 


addition to rendering himself liable to a criminal pro- 
secution, be debarred either permanently or for a 
specified period: — 

(a) by the Commission from admission to any 
examination or appearance at any interview 
held by the Commission for selection of candi- 
dates; and 

(b) by the Central Government from employment 
under the Government. 

17. Candidates are informed that some knowledge 
of Hindi prior to entry into service would be of ad- 
vantage in passing departmental examinations which 
candidates have to take after entry into service. 


APPENDIX I 

List of Universities approved by the Government of 
India 

Indian Universities 

Any University incorporated by an Act of the Central 
or of a Part A or Part B State Legislature in India. 

The degrees and diplomas mentioned below have also 
been recognised provisionally as equivalent to the 
Bachelor of Arts degree of a recognized University 
with effect from the date specified against each: — 

Alankar of Gurukul University, Kangri, Hardwar 
with effect from 5th July 1048. 

Jamia Sanadi of Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, with 
effect from 3rd December 1946. 

Shastri of Kashi Vidyapith, Banaras, with effect 
from 0th May 1940. 

University in Burma 

The University of Rangoon. 

English and Welsh Universities 

The Universities of Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, 
Durham, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester, Ox- 
ford, Reading, Sheffield and Wales. 

Scottish Universities 

The Universities of Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glaaagow 
and St. Andrews. 

Irish Universities 

The University of Dublin (Trinity College). 

The National University of Dublin. 

The Queen's University, Balfaat. 

Universities in Pakistan 

The University of Punjab. 

The Dacca University. 

The University of Sind. 

APPENDIX H 

A. — The Examination shall be conducted according 
to the following plan: — 

Part I 

Compulsory papers up to a total of 450 marks for all 
services. 

Part II 

Optional papers up to a total of 600 marks for all 
Services except the Indian Police Service for which the 
required total will be 400 marks. 

Part III 

Additional papers for candidates who compete for 
the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian 
Foreign Service up to a total of 400 marks as detailed 
in Appendix IIA. 

For the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian 
Foreign Service the two additional papers of only such 
candidates will be examined and marked as attain a 
certain minimum standard at the written examination 
in all the other subjects. 

Part IV 

* Personality test for such candidates as may be called 
by the Union Public Service Commission carrying a 
maximum of 300 marks for all Services except the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service. The maximum personality test marks for the 
Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign 
Service shall be 400. 

B —ALL QUESTION PAPERS MUST BE ANSWER- 
ED ’ IN ENGLISH, EXCEPT QUESTION PAPERS IN 
LANGUAGES WHICH, UNLESS SPECIFICALLY RE- 

§ UIRED OTHERWISE, MAY BE ANSWERED IN 
NGLISH OR IN THE LANGUAGE OFFERED. 

Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. 
In no circumstance, will they be allowed the help of 


an amanuensis (scribe) to write down the answers for 
them. 

1. The following will be the subjects for the written 
examination for all Services with such restrictions 
and combinations as are detailed below: — 


Compulsory (for all candidates) — 


(1) English Essay . * 

Marks 

150 

(2) General English . 

150 

(3) General Knowledge . 

rjo 


Optional , — (i) Candidates for the Indian Police Ser- 
vice must select any two of the following subjects, 
and 


(ii) Candidates for all Services other than the Indian 
Police Service must select any three of the following 
subjects: — 


(4) Pure Mathematics 


200 

(5) Applied Mathematic* . 


200 

(6) Chemistry .... 


200 

(7) Physics * 


200 

(8) Botany . 


200 

(9) Zoology .... 


200 

(10) Geology .... 


200 

(11) English Literature 


200 

(12) Indian History . 


200 

(13) British History * 


200 

(14) World History . 


200 

(ij) International Law . 


200 

(16) General Economics » 


200 

(17) Political Science 


200 

(18) Law * , r « 


200 

(19) Philosophy * * 


200 

(20) Geography 


200 

(2 j) One of the following 




Latin, French Sanskrit, Arabic, Persian, Spa- 
nish, Russian* German and Chinese . , 200 

Note. — For the Indian Foreign Service only and for 
no other Service candidates may select any two of 


these languages. 

(22) Statistics 200 

(23) Advanced Accountancy and Auditing . . 200 

(24) Mercantile Law . aoo 

(25) Applied Mechanics 200 

(26) Prime Movers ...... 200 


2. Restrictions on the selection of optional subjects,— 

S Subjects 25 and 20 must not be offered for the 
n Police Service. 

(b) Of the History subjects 12, 13 and 14, not more 
than two can be offered for any service. 

(c) Of the Law subjects 15, 18 and 24, not more 
than two can be offered for any service. 

(d) Of the Mathematics subjects 4, 6 and 22, not 
more than two can be offered for any service. 

3. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying 
marks in any or all of the subjects at the examina- 
tion. 

4. The Commission will summon at their discretion 
only such candidates as they consider suitable for inter- 
view for a personality test. 

5. From the marks assigned to candidates in each 
subject such deduction will be made as the Commission 
may consider necessary in order to secure that no 
credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge. 

6, If a candidate’s handwriting is not easily legible 
a deduction will be made on this account from the 
total marks otherwise accruing to him. 

7. Credit will be given for orderly, effective and 
exact expression combined with due economy of words 
in all subjects of the examination. 


APPENDIX II-A 
Vide Part III 

All candidates wishing to compete for the Indian 
Administrative Service and the Indian Foreign Service 



Faht I— Sec. 1 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12 , 1985 


55 


must select any two of the following subjects for the 
additional papers: — 

Marks 

(j) Higher Pure Mathematics ...» 300 

Or 

Higher Applied Mathematics * * . 200 

(2) Higher Chemistry 200 

(3) Higher Physics 200 

(4) Higher Botany 200 

(j) Higher Zoology ...... 200 

(6) Higher Geology 200 

(7) English Literature from 1780 to 1901 * # 200 

(8) Indian History from 1600 to the present 

day 200 

or 

British Constitutional History from 1603 to 

the present day . - * . - 200 

or 

European History from 1789 to 1878 . * 200 

(9) Advanced Economic Theory • . . 200 

or 

Advanced Indian Economics * . . 200 

(10) Political Theory from Hobbes to the present 

day 200 

or 

Political Organisation and Public Administra- 
tion 200 

(n) Advanced Metaphysics including Epistemo- 
logy *..*.*.* 200 

or 

Advanced Psychology including Experimen- 
tal Psychology * • . • * , 200 

(12) Medieval Civilisation as reflected in Arabic 

Literature (570 A.D.-165Q A,D.) , . 200 

or 

Medieval Civilisation as reflected in Persian 
Literature (57o-A-D.“i650 A.D.) . . 200 

or 

Ancient Indian Civilisation and Philosophy* 200 

( 13 ) Anthropology , ■ 200 

(14) Sociology 200 

(15) Higher Geography . 200 

Note 1, — The standard of the above papers will be 
higher than that prescribed for the optional papers 
detailed under para. 1 of Appendix JL 

Note 2 . — For the Indian Administrative Service and 
the Indian Foreign Service, the two additional papers 
of only such candidates will be examined and marked 
as attain a certain minimum standard at the written 
examination in all the other subjects. 


APPENDIX II -B 

Standard and syllabus of the examination. 

Note. — The standard of optional papers will be 
approximately that of an Honours Degree examination 
of an Indian University, 

1. English Essay , — An essay to be written in English 
on one of several specified subjects. 

2 . General English. — Questions to test the under- 
standing of and the power to write English. Passages 
will usually be set for summary or precis. 

3. General Knowledge . — Including knowledge of 
current events and of such matters of everyday 
observation and experience in their scientific aspects 
as may be expected of an educated person who has 
not made a special stud^ of any scientific subject 
The paper will also include questions on Indian History 
and Geography of a nature which candidates should 
be able to answer without special study. 

A Pure Mathematics. — ^he subjects included will 
be: — 

( 1 ) Algebra, Trigonometry and Theory of Equa- 
tions with Determinants. 

( 2 ) Pure Plane Geometry and Analytical Geometry 
of two and three dimensions. 

(3) Differential and Integral Calculus and Differ- 
ential equations. 


5* Applied Mathematics. — The subjects included will 
be: — 

( 1 ) Statics (including Theory of Attractions and 
Potentials) and Hydrostatics. 

( 2 ) Dynamics of a particle and Elementary Rigid 
Dynamics. 

0, Chemistry . — The paper will include questions on 
General (including Physical) Chemistry, Inorganic 
Chemistry and Organic Chemistry. 

7. Physics. — The paper will include questions on 
General Physics, Heat, Light, Sound, Electricity and 
Magnetism. 

8 . Botany. — The subject includes Vegetable Physio- 
logy. 

9. Zoology. 

10. Geology . — The subject includes Mineralogy. 

11. English Literature.— Candidates will be expected 
to show a general knowledge of the history of English 
Literature from the time of Spenser to the end of the 
reign of Queen Victoria with Bpecial reference to the 
works of the following authors: — 

^Shakespeare, Milton, Johnson* Dickens, Wordsworth, 
Keats, Carlyle, Tennyson and Hardy. 

Evidence of first hand reading will be required. 

12 . & 13. Indian and British History . — The exami- 
nation will be in Indian History from the beginning of 
Asoka’s reign to the close of tne 19th Century and in 
British History from 1485 to 1880. The papers will 
include questions on social and literary developments. 

14. "World History. — 1789 to 1939. 

15. International Law. — Including also the History 
of International Law and the Law of belligerents 
and neutrals in war. 

16. General Economics.— Candidates will be expected 
to have a knowledge of economic theory and ahould 
be prepared both to illustrate theory by facts and to 
analyse facts by the help of theory. Questions may 
be set on the history of economic thought. 

17. Political Science. — Candidates will be expected to 
show & knowledge of political theory and its history, 
political theory being understood 1 2 3 to mean not only the 
theory of legislation but also the general theory of the 
State. Questions may also be set on constitutional 
forms (Representative Government, Federalism, etc.) 
and Public Administration, Central and Local. Candi- 
dates will be expected to barve knowledge of the origin 
and development of existing institutions. 

18. Law . — Constitutional Law of the Republic of 
India and the United Kingdom, Jurisprudence, Torts, 
Indian Law of Contract, Indian Evidence Act, Indian 
Penal Code. 

19. Philosophy. — The subject covers the history and 
the theory of Ethics. Eastern and Western, and includes 
moral standard's and their application, the problems of 
moral order and progress of Society and the State, and 
theories of punishment. It includes also the history 
of Western Philosophy and should be studied with spe- 
cial reference to the problems of space, time and 
casuallty, evolution and value and the nature of God. 

20 . Geography. — Geography of the world with special 
reference to India. Questions may be set on topics 
which concern Geography jointlv with other subjects, 
such as Economics, History. Physics, Botany and 
Geology* 

21 . Language a. — Candidates will be expected to show 
a knowledge of the principal classical authors and to 
be able to translate from and compose in the language. 

Note. — Candidates for Sanskrit Arabic and Persian 
may be asked to answer some questions in Sanskrit, 
Arabic or Persian as the case may be. Answers Te- 
auired to be written in Sanskrit must be written in 
the Devanagari Script. 

22 . Statistics. — (1) Frequency distributions average, 
percentiles and simple methods of measuring disper- 
sion, graphic methods, treatment of qualitative data, 
eg., investigation of association by comparison of ratios, 
the practice of graphic and algebraic methods of inter- 
polation. 

(21 Practical methods used in the analysis and inter- 
pretation of statistics of prices, wages and incomes* 
trade transport, production and consumption, educa- 
tion etc,, methods of dealing with population and vital 
statistics, miscellaneous methods used in handling 
statistics of experiments or observations, 

(3) Elements of modern mathematical theory of 
statistics, frequency curves end the mathematical re- 
presentation of groups generally, accuracy of sampling 



56 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part I — Sec. 2 


as affecting averages, percentages, the standard devia- 
tion, significance of observed differences between 
averages, of groups, etc,, the theory of correlation for 
two variables. 

23. Advanced Accountancy and Auditing: — 

(a) Accounts relating to:— Partnership, Joint 
Stock Company ^ Amalgamation, Absorption 
and Reconstruction, Holding and Subsidiary 
Companies, Insolvency, Liquidation. Double 
Accounts System, Hire Purchase and Instal- 
ment Systems, and Non-trading organisations. 
Branch Accounts, Bank Accounts, Contract 
Accounts, Insurance Accounts, Royalty Ac- 
counts. Criticism of Published Accounts. 
Problems relating to Goodwill, Depreciation 
and Reserves, etc. 

(b) Cost Accounts: — Aims and objects of costing. 
Principal systems of ascertaining costs for 
different types of industries and their charac- 
teristics. Methods of apportionment of on 
cost. Treatment and Control of Materials, 
Stores and Stocks. Treatment of wages and 
other expenses. Pricing of Stores and Stocks. 
Forms of Cost Ledger, Stores -Ledger, Purchase 
Journal. Stores Requisition Note, Goods Rew 
reived 1 Book, Bin Card, Time Sheet. Wages 
Summary, Cost sheet and other necessary 
rulings. Ascertainment of Cost and Ex-works 
price under Controlled economy. Practical 
Problems relating to cost Accounting. 

(c) Principles and procedure of auditing: — Aud it 
of Arms. Joint Stock Companies and Public 
Utilities, Rights, duties and liabilities of 
auditors. Internal check. Auditor's appoint- 
ment and qualifications, Auditor's Report, In- 
vestigations and their conduct. Divisible Pro- 
fits and Dividends. Legal decisions relating to 
audit matters. Problems relating to audits. 

(d) Income-Tax:^ Application of Income Tax Act 
and exemptions. Income Tax Authorities. 
Heads of income and their assessment Previous 
year, Assessment year, Depreciation. Free of 
Tax and Less Tax. Set-off, Computation of 
Total Income and tax payable by assessees. 
Assessment of individuals, Firms, Joint Stock 
Companies, Hindu undivided family, Associa- 
tion of persons. Assessment of new business 
and discontinued business. Method and prin- 
ciples relating to assessment to super-tax. 
Practical problems* 

24. Mercantile Law * — The main principles of the law 
relating to: — 

Agreements. 

Contracts. 

Bailment. 

Pledge. 

Sale of Goods, 

Agency. 

Partnership. 

Indemnity and 1 Guarantee. 

Negotiable Instruments. 

Company Law and Liquidation of Companies. 

Life, Fire, Marine Insurance. 

Common Carriers, and Carriage of Goods by Land, 
Sea and Air 

Insolvency. 

25. Applied Mechanics — 

(a) Buildings 

Consideration of materials used in the construction 
of roof-trusses. Steel and timber. Determination of 
stresses in trusses by various methods. Dead-loads 
and wind pressure. Factors of safety and working 
stresses. 

Design of roof-trusses. Various types of roof-trusses 
and roof-coverings; collar beam and hermmer beam 
trusses. 

Use of Euler’s, Gordon's, Rankine's, Fidler’s, John- 
son’s and straight line formulae in the design of struts. 
Buckling factor of struts; curves showing comparative 
strength of struts obtained by various formulae. 
Choice of size of sections. Finish of steel work* Joints, 
Design of end-bearings; methods of fixing and sup- 
porting ends. 

Application of circles and ellipse of stress and 
Clapeyron's theorem to design of structures. 

Cast Iron and Steel Columns. — Flange and web con- 
nections to steel Columns; caps; bases transverse brac- 
ing of columns. 


Foundations.— S afe pressures; foundations for 
columns. Slab foundations, cantilever foundations; 
grillage foundations. Wells, Piles. 

RetalniTig Walls and Earth Pressures . — Rankine's 
theory. Wedge theory, Winker’s and Bligh’s graphical 
constructions, with corrections. Design of various 
types of retaining walls In masonry* 

Tall Masonry and Steel Chimneys. — Theory and 
design. 

Design of Steel and masonry reservoirs ; with consi- 
derations of wind-pressures. 

Deflection of framed structures and determination 
of stresses, etc., in redundant frames. 

Influence diagrams for bending moment and shear 
for uniformly distributed and irregular loads on 
trusses, built in beams, and three pinned; parabolic 
semi-elliptic and semi-circular arches. 

General principles of dome design. 

Principles of Building Design; consideration of loads 
on buildings. Steel-works, girders, etc., for buildings. 

(b) Bridges 

Design of superstructure. Determination by graphi- 
cal and analytical methods of bending moment due to 
moving loads. Wind pressures. 

Design of masonry bridges and culverts. 

Plate-webb girders, Analysis of stresses. 

Warren and lattice girders. 

Three pinned arches; doubly pinned and rigid arches. 

General considerations on the design of suspension, 
cantilevers and tubular bridges. 

Steel arched bridges. 

Swing bridges. 

(c) Reinforced Concrete 

Shear, bond and diagonal tension, its nature, evalua- 
tion and location of reinforcement. 

Design of simple and doubly reinforced beams and 
continuous beam. 

Theory and design of reinforced’ concrete columns 
and piles. 

Design of slab foundations. 

Design of simple cantilever and counterfort retaining 
walls. 

Equivalent moments of inertia for reinforced con- 
crete sections. 

Theory of elastic deflections and outline of investiga- 
tion of stresses in reinforced concrete arches. 

(d) General 

Analysis of stress, analysis of strain, elastic limit 
and ultimate strength. Relation between the elastic 
constants. Launhardt-Weyrauch formula for working 
stresses in a structual member and determination of 
its cross sectional area. Repetition of stresses. Bench- 
ing moment and shearing force diagrams for dead 
loads. Graphical determinaton of stresses in frames; 
effect of wind pressure; method of sections. Stress in 
the cross-section of a beam due to bending (M/I-f/y- 
E/R) ; compound and conjugated stresses. Rankine's 
theory of earth-pressure; depth of foundations and 
strength of footings. Grillage foundations; Coulomb's 
theory of earth-pressure: modification due to Rebahn. 

Bending moment and shearing force diagrams for 
live loads. Analysis of uniform and uniformly varying 
stress. Elastic theory of bending of beams; bending 
and shear stresses in beams; Modulus of section and 
equivalent areas. Maximum and 1 minimum stresses in 
a loint due to eccentric loading. Stresses in dams and 
chimneys. Stability of block-work structures. Design 
of rlvetted Joints and stresses in boiler shells. Euler's 
theory concerning struts; modifications due to Rankine. 
Gordon and others. Torsion, Combined torsion and 
bending deflections. Encastre beams, Continuous beams 
and theorem of three moments. Elastic theory of 
arches. Masonry arches. 

20. Prime Movers , — 

Fuel, Gas Plants and Boilers . — 

(a) Fuel — Coal, wood, petroleum, gas. petrol, 
alcohol, etc,, physical characteristics, approxi- 
mate chemical composition; heat of combus- 
tion. 

(b) Gas Plants. — Gas producers, pressure and 
suction plants, arrangements and working, 



THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1666 


57 


Pa^t IHSic. 1] 


(c) Boilers.— Draught; natural, forced and Induced, 
Ordinary forms of stationery locomotive, 
marine, water-tube, and other types; heating 
surface, fire-grate area; boiler efficiency; 
superheaters; feed-water heaters; accessories 
and management. 

Theory of Heat Engines. — 

(a) Thermodynamical principles; Carnot's cycle; 
perfect heat engine; second law. 

(b) Air Engines . — Stirling amd other forma. 

(c) Internal Combustion Engines . — Gas oil and 

petrol engines; types and working; feature* of 
cycles. Proportioning of mixtures; efficiencies. 

(d) Steam . — Thermodynamics of the generation, 
expansion and condensation of steam; heat- 
ed a grams, etc. 

(e) Steam engines and turbines, with special refer- 
ences to modern developments. 

(f) Refrigerating Plants . — Theory and General 

arrangement of the more common type*. 

(g) Air Compressors . — Theory of pneumatic work-* 
ing. 


Generating Plants , Accessories and Details. — 

(a) General arrangements and construction of the 
more Important types. 

(b) Condensers, air-pumps, circulating pumps, cool- 
ing tanks, etc. 

(c) Carburettors, and system of ignition. 

(d) Cylinders, pistons, cross-heads, guides, connect- 
ing rods, cranks, governors, fly-wheels, valves 
and valve-gears, glands and pipes. 

(e) Engine Testing . — Consumption of steam and 
fuel, gas, and oil brakes and dynamo-meters 
indicators and indicator diagrams. 


Rigid Dynamics — Motion in two dimensions. Mo- 
mentum and Vu-viva. Lagrange’s equations 
of motion and their application to small oscil- 
lations. 

4. Hydrodynamics including the elementary theory of 
the motion of solids through a liquid, and surface 
waves. 

5. Electricity and Magnetism, 

6. Thermodynamics, KJnetic theory of gases, radia- 
tion. 


HIGHER CHEMISTRY: 

I. A study of the following elements: Rare gases, 
rare earths, elements of atomic number 43, 61. 85, 87 
hafnium, protoactinium, polonium, rhenium and trails- 
uranic elements. 


Co-ordination compounds. Radioactivity and trans- 
mutation of elements. Modem methods of atomic 
weight determination. Different forms of hydrogen and 
its isotopes. Free radicals of short life. Newer methods 
in analytical chemistry. 

II. Theories of organic chemistry including resonance 
and hydrogen bond. Organic reactions and stereoche- 
mistry. Production end uses of aliphatic hydrocarbons. 
Natural and synthetic polymers and polysaccharides. 
Chemistry of diphenyl and polycyclic hydrocarbon*. 
Tannins and depsides, terpenes and alkaloids. Natural 
colouring matters. Important members of the follow- 
ing; vitamins and hormones, sterols and bile acids, 
cardiac glycosides. Insecticides and antibiotics. Syn- 
thetic drugs and perfumes. 

III, The states of aggregation. Surface chemistry 
and colloids. Thermodynamics — I and II laws of ther- 
modynamics and their application to chemical pheno- 
mena. Electrochemistry. Chemical kinetics and cata- 
lysis, Quantum theory. 


Personality test . — The candidate will be interviewed 
by a Board who will have before them a record of his 
career. He will be asked questions on matters of 
general interest. The object of the interview is to 
assess the personal suitability of the candidate for the 
Service or Services for which he has applied by a 
Board of competent and unbiassed observers. The 
qualities to be judged may be broadly summed up a* 
an assessment of the mental calibre of the candidate 
when that term is understood to Include not only 
Intellectual qualities but also social and moral traits 
of personality. Some of the qualities to be judged are 
mental alertness, critical powers of assimilation, clear 
and logical exposition, balance of Judgement, variety 
and depth of interests, ability for social cohesion and 
leadership, Intellectual and moral integrity, 

2. The technique of the interview is not that of a 
strict cross examination, but of a natural though direct- 
ed and purposive conversation, which is intended to 
reveal the mental qualities of the candidate. 

3. The Personality test is not intended to be a test 
either of the specialised or general knowledge of the 
candidates which have been already tested through his 
written papers. Candidates are expected to have taken 
an intelligent interest not only in their special sub- 
jects of academic study, but also In the events which 
are happening around them both within and without 
their own state or country, as well as in modern 
currents of thought, and in new discoveries which 
should rouse the curiosity of well educated youth, 

APPENDIX II-C 

Syllabus for additional papers to be offered by candi- 
dates competing for the Indian Administrative 
Service and the Indian Foreign Service. 

HIGHER PURE MATHEMATICS: 

1. Infinite Series and Product*. 

2. Analysis: 

(a) Functions of a real variable. 

(b) Functions of a complex variable. 

3. Advanced Geometry Including Differential Geo- 
metry Curves in space. Envelopes. Curvature of sur- 
faces, Lines of curvature^ Geodesics. 

HIGHER APPLIED MATHEMATICS: 

1. Statics including Attractions and Potentials. 

2. Hydrostatics: Fluid pressure. Atmospheric pres- 
sure. Capillarity. 

3. Dynamics of a particle and Rigid bodies. 

Particle Dynamics— Central Orbits, Constrained 
motion. Motion in a resisting medium. 
Motion in three dimensions* 


HIGHER PHYSICS, 

1* General Properties of Matter and Sound — Mecha- 
nics of deformable bodies. Helical Springs. Capillary 
phenomena Viscosity* Wave motion. Acoustical 
measurements. Absorption of sound. Ultrasonics. 

2. Heat and Thermodynamics — Brownian motion* 
Kinetic theory of gases. Transport phenomena in gases 
at low pressures. Thermodynamic functions and their 
applications. Specific heat of solids. Conduction and 
convection. Absolute scale, measurement of tempera- 
ture. 

3. Optics— ‘Theory of co-axial symmetrical optical 
systems and Instruments. Experimental spectroscopy. 
Electromagnetic theory. Scattering of light* Diffrac- 
tion. Polarisation. Conical refraction. 

4. Electricity and Magnetism — Gauss theorem. 
Electrometers. Atmospheric electricity. Magnetic 
hyteresis. Theory of permanent magnet*. Measure- 
ment of electrical quantities. Alternating Current 
theory. Induction Motor. Cyclotron and other methods 
for production of high voltages. Transmission and 
reception of wireless waves. Television. 

0. Electron Theory and Wave Mechanics — Hydrogen 
and helium spectra, Zeman and Stark effects. Pauli’* 
principle and periodic clarification of element*. X-ray* 
and X-ray spectroscopy* Compton effect. Motion of 
electron in electric and magnetic fields. Conduction in 
metals, Supraconductivity. Thermiomcs* Thermal 
ionization. Properties of atomic nuclei. Mass Spect- 
roscopy. Radioactive transformations. Elementary 
particles and their properties. Nuclear forces. Cosmic 
rays. Special theory of relativity. Dual nature of light 
and matter. Schroedinger’s equation and it* solution 
in simple cases. 

HIGHER BOTANY: 

Candidates will be expected to possess an advanced 
knowledge of the main groups of the vegetable king- 
dom both living and extinct (viz. Algae, Fungi, Bryo- 
phyta, Pteridophyta, Gymnosperms and Angiosperms) 
with special reference to the Indian flora. 

Anatomy — Origin, nature and development of plant 
tissues and their distribution from ecological and phy- 
siological point of view. 

Ecology— Principal types of vegetation of India, their 
distribution and the importance of vegetational study* 

Physiology — An advanced knowledge of the impor- 
tant Physiological processes of plant body. 

Plant Pathology— An advanced knowledge of the 
important diseases of plants caused by bacteria, fungi, 
viruses and physiological diseases together with the 
methods of control* 



5 « 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1956 


[PaHT I — &ML i 


Economic Botany — A study of the Important econo- 
mic plants of India and their distribution. 

General Biology — A knowledge of fundamentals and 
recem development in variation, heredity, evolution, 
cytology, genetics and principles of plant breeding. 

HIGHER ZOOLOGY: 

(1) The Structure, bionomics, development, classifi- 
cation and general organisations of the following 
groups: — 

Protozoa (Protozoa and disease); Parazoa; Coelente- 
rata; PJLatyheiminthes and Nemathelminlhes (with spe- 
cial reference to the disease earners of man and domes- 
tic animals); Annelida; Arthorpoda (Economic role of 
Insects in India); Chaetognatha, Kotifera; Polyzoa etc.; 
Molluscia; Echinodermata; Cephalochordata; Urochor- 
data; Cyclostomata; Eiasmobranchii; Teleostei, Dipnoi; 
Amphibia; Reptilia; Aves; and Mammalia. 

(2) General Biology. 

Evolution; Heredity and Mendelism; Variations; 
Mutations; Basic Principles of Cytology — Cell structure 
with modem concept of genes, Ceil division, Fertiliza- 
tions, Gametogeness— Parasitism; Ammai colouration: 
Mimicry; Geographical and Geological distribution of 
animals. Growth of Biological ideas and the contri- 
bution of great biologists to knowledge and civilization. 

HIGHER GEOLOGY: 

General Geology— History and development of the 
science of Geology. Origin and evolution of the Earth. 
Radioactivity and geology. Seismology. Isostasy 
Wegener’s Theory. Evolution of continents, oceanic 
basins. 

Crystallography and Mineralogy — Crystal symmetry 
and structure. The Reflecting Goniometer. Detailed 
study of rock-forming and economic minerals. 

Peterology — Igneous rocks. Sedimentary rocks. Meta- 
morphic rocks. 

Structural and Field Geology— Problems of rock de- 
formation. Structure in relation to topography and 
economic geology. Methods of Geological Surveying 
and Mapping. 

Palaeontology, Stratigraphy and Indian Geology- 

Palaeontology— Detailed knowledge of invertebrate 
palaeontology; an outline of vertebrate palaeontology 
and paiaeobotany. 

Stratigraphy and Indian Geology — Principles of stra- 
tigraphy. Detailed study of geological formation as 
developed in India, Pakistan and Burma. 

Economic Geology— With special reference to India. 
Principles of Geological prospecting. 

ENGLISH LITERATURE: 

From 1780 to 1901 with special reference to the works 
of Wordsworth, Coleridge, Shelley, Keats, Byron, 
Lamb, Jane Austen, Carlyle, Ruskin, Dickens, Thacke- 
ray, Tennyson & Browning. 

INDIAN HISTORY: 

From 1600 to the present day. 

EUROPEAN HISTORY: 

From 1789 to 1878. 

BRITISH CONSTITUTIONAL HISTORY FROM 1003 
TO THE PRESENT DAY 

ADVANCED ECONOMIC THEORY: 

Indifference technique of economic analysis; the Sta- 
tionary State and Statical Equilibrium; Theory of Im- 
perfect Competition; Laws of Production and Distri- 
bution; Theories of Capital and Interests; Theory of 
International Trade. 


Economic consequences of Partition; Indian Economy 
since Independence; Recent Economic Legislation; 
Planning India’s economic development. 

POLITICAL THEORY FROM HOBBES TO THE 
PRESENT DAY 

Theories of Contract and Natural Right — Hobbes, 
Locke and Rousseau. The Historians— Vico, Montes- 
quieu and Burke. The Utilitarians, The Evolutionists. 
The Idealists — Kant. Hegel, Green, Bradley and Bosan- 
quet. Marxism, Pluralism and Fascism. 

POLITICAL ORGANISATION AND PUBLIC 
ADMINISTRATION 

(i) Political Institutions— The rise of Modem Nation- 
al States. Parliamentary and Presidential forms of 
Government. Unitary and Federal Governments. The 
Legislature. The executive and the Judiciary. Methods 
of Representation. The Commumstic and Totalitarian 
forms of Government. 

(ii) Public Administration — The scope and nature of 
Public Administration. Rise of public administration 
in the 19th Century. Principles of administration as 
derived from the working of the Civil Services of 
England, France and India, Problems of personnel — 
Selection and training. The desirability of a scientific 
and economic Civil Service. Relationship of the Civil 
Servant with the public. 

(iii) The growth of public Corporation. 

ADVANCED METAPHYSICS AND EPISTEMOLOGY: 

Candidates will be expected to be familiar with the 
views of prominent philosophers from Kant to the Pre- 
sent Day. Questions may be set on any of the follow- 
ing topics: — 

1. The sources, materials, varieties, limits, and cri- 

teria of knowledge. 

Truth, Falsehood and Error. 

2. Theories of reality. Reality and existence, Mon- 

ism, Dualism and Pluralism, Post-Hegelian 
Idealism, Radical Empiricism. Creative Evolu- 
tion, New Realism, Neutral Monism, Logical 
Positivism. 

ADVANCED PSYCHOLOGY INCLUDING EXPERI- 
MENTAL PSYCHOLOGY 

1. Scope, subject matter, and Methods of Psycho- 

logy. 

2. Relation of Psychology with physiology, the 

Social Sciences and Medicine. 

3. Heredity and environment. 

The development of the individual. 

Motivation, Feeling and emotion. 

Sensation, perception and observation. 

Learning, memory, imagination and thinking. 
Theories of personality. 

4. Individual Differences, Measurement of intel- 

ligence and other abilities. Temperamental 
and personality tests. 

6. Schools of Modern Psychology. 

The Introspectionists, the Hormic School Beha- 
viourism, Gestalt, the Psycho-Analytical 
and allied Schools. 

MEDIEVAL CIVILISATION AS REFLECTED 
IN ARABIC LITERATURE 

(670 AD, — 1650 A.D.) 

The paper will test the candidate’s knowledge of 
geography, history and social, political and religious 
evolution and developments. 


Economic Dynamics; National Income approach; 
Theory of Employment in a closed and in an open eco- 
nomy; Theories of the Trade Cycle; Taxation and 
public expenditure in a welfare State; Theories of Eco- 
nomic Development; Theory of Economic Planning. 


ADVANCED INDIAN ECONOMICS: 

Scope and nature of the Indian Economic Problem; 
Resources and Requirments; Population Trends and 
Population Policy; Indian Agriculture, Technological 
institutional, social, legislative and financial aspects; 
Agrarian Reform; The Food Problem; River Valley 
Schemes; Industrial Development, Fiscal Policy; Fore- 
ign and Inland Trade; Balance of Payments; Currency 
Sid Prices in India. The Reserve Bank and its work- 
ing; The banking system and Indian economic develop- 
ment: Taxation and Expenditure; National Income; 
Effects of the two World Wars on Indian Economy; 


MEDIEVAL CIVILISATION AS REFLECTED 
IN PERSIAN LITERATURE 

(670 A.D.— 1050 A.D.) 

The paper will test the candidate's knowledge of 
geography, history and social, political and refigiouii 
evolution and developments, 

ANCIENT INDIAN CIVILIZATION AND PHILO- 
SOPHY 

The history of the Civilization, Philosophy and 
thought of India from 2000 B.C, to 1200 A.D. 

Note. — The paper will test the knowledge of geo- 
graphy history, and social, political and religious evo- 
lution and developments. Questions may b© set which 
require an acquaintance wiht archaeological dis- 
coveries 



Part I — Sec. l] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


59 


ANTHROPOLOGY: 

Physical Anthropology— its definition and scope. The 
Geological and Zoological background of physical an- 
thropology, The origin of species — the roles of here- 
dity— selection and environment in the formation of 
species. Human Evolution — Man’s place among the 
primates — time and place of anthropogenesis. Early 
types of Man — Palaeoanthropic man and Neanthropic 
Man — -Homo Sapiens. Problems of race differences and 
the classification of living races* 

Measurement and quantitative treatment of the 
somatic differences in Man. Craniometry and Osteo- 
metry, Significance of blood group distribution* 

Relationship between Physical and mental traits. 

Scope of Social Anthropology. Relation between an- 
thropology and sociology and other social sciences. 
Methods of study, Meterials of observation. Evolu-* 
tionary anthropogeographlcal, historical, functional and 
psychological approaches. 

Family, clan, types of social structure, their distri- 
bution and origin. 

Forms of marriage* Methods of securing wife, bride- 
price dowry, divorce and compensation, Kinship, Pri- 
mitive government and social structure. 

Myths in primitive life, art, ritual and tradition; 
Magical beliefs and practices. The concept of the 
supernatural. Religious sacrifice and taboo. 

Principles of primitive economics. Types of econo- 
mic structure. Division of labour, values, individual- 
ism and collectivism. Inter-tribal and intra-tribal ex- 
change of goods and services. 

Distribution of tribal groups in India— Levels of Cul- 
tural development represented by them; problems of 
tribal rehabilitation, adaptation, acculturation and 
assimilation of tribal groups. Methods adopted In the 
various States for tribal welfare. 

SOCIOLOGY: 

Scope of Sociology. Relations with the Social and 
natural sciences. Methods. 


Oceanography. Origin of the Oceans and Seas. Floor 
of the Oceans. Temperature, salinity. Sea-bottom de- 
posits and their classification. Ocean circulation; waves 
currents and tides. 

Economic Geography. Influence of Environment on 
the Economic activities of man. Primary production. 
Agriculture as an economic activity. Production of 
major foodstuffs. Beverage crops and raw materials of 
modern industry. Fishing. Forests Minerals and min- 
ing. Power resources of the world. Secondary pro- 
duction. Chief manufacturing industries. Transport. 
Effect nf inland waterways on the industrial develop- 
ment of important regions. Influence of road and rail 
in the opening of new regions. Main ocean-routes, air- 
routes and their geographical importance. 


APPENDIX III 
Fees 

Candidates must pay the following fees; — 

A. To the Union Public Service Commission.— Appli- 
cation and examination fee of Rs. 82-8-0 (Rs. 20-10-0 
in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes) of which Re. 1 should 
be paid by Money Order when asking for application 
form and connected documents and the rest in the form 
of a treasury receipt or CROSSED Indian Postal Orders 
payable to the Secretary, Union Public Service Com- 
mission The Commission cannot accept any other 
arrangement. 

Note. — The Commission may, at their discretion 
remit the prescribed application and examination fee 
wh.ere they are satisfied that the applicant is a bona- 
fide displaced person from Pakistan or from the un- 
liberated areas of Jammu & Kashmir and is not in a 
position to pay the prescribed fee. 

B. To tr>e Medical Board . — Rs. 10 before examination 
bv a Medical Board in the case of candidates who 
are asked to appear before a Medical Board. 

Candidates are required to pay their medical fee in 
cash to the Medical Boards concerned at the time of 
their medical examination. 


Origins of Society. Primitive life. Stages of social 
evolution, Social heritage; its mechanisms. Orders of 
environment. Types of behaviour. 

Social Structure. Groups. Institutions, Associations, 
Family, Marriage, Status, Class, Community, Herd and 
Crowd, Occupation Property, Personality. Culture 
and Civilization. Myths and Legends. Language and 
Speech. Race, Contracts and their types. State. Morals 
and their evolution, Habits. Customs. Mores and Folk- 
way*. 


Social Change, 
phlc force®, 


Technological, economic, demogr 


Psychological factors. Interaction, imitation, diffi 
slon. Cultural factors. Role of ideas. LeadersM 
Laws of social change and social selection. 

w? C / al » Pr0C m Ses - Competition. Differentiation Co 


Social maladjustment. Mass 
lage. Crime, Social Evils. 


culture. City and V 




c5 JC i i m PI , a ™ lnf ' Its Principles. 
Social Work and Welfare, 


Indian conditioi 


Social Security. Purpose and Progress. 


SuSey a emary S0Clal Statistics - Techniques of Social 


HIGHER GEOGRAPHY: 

Land°Ks h0 oai n T 0 h f e th Earth ;. Is ^as y , Selsmol 
of the mountains E n r^ e M° ntlnents - 0ri ^ in and 
crust of the earth of , Mov ™ts. Tension in 
u Bt ui me earth, Its causes and results, rift-valle 


Climatology, Structure of the atmosphere. Radia- 
tion. Insolation and temperature. Geographical distri- 
bution of temperature. Major regions of pressure and 
seasonal variations. Air masses and fronts. Principal 
types of pressure systems and their weather signifi- 
cance. Vapour in the atmosphere. Atmospheric elec- 
tricity. Atmospheric optics. Weather analysis and 
weather forecasting. 


Jno claim lor a refund of these fees will ordinarily bo 
entertained, nor can these be held in reserve for any 
other examination or selection, A refund of Rs. 75 
rRs. 1 8 12-0 In the case of candidates belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) will, however 
be allowed to a candidate who has paid the consolidat- 
ed fee of hN 82-8-0 (ps 20-10-0 in the case of candi- 
dates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes) but Who is not admitted to the examination by 
the Commission. 

Note.— “Scheduled Castes” means anv of the castes 
mentioned in Appendix V to these Rules, Scheduled 
Tribes are those given In Appendix VI to these 
Ku/es. 


APPENDIX IV 


’VMimn zne , 'services to which 
rpcruffmc-nt is being made through this domination. 

,F et n,/ d ,nforn,afi °n ™ay, if desired, he obtained from 
the Ministry concerned). 

1. Indian Administrative Service.— ( a) Appointments 
will be made on probation for a period of one year 
which may br> extended. Successful candidates will 
be required to undergo probation at such place and In 
such manner and pass sudh examinations during the 
period of probation as the Government of India may 
determine. y 


' j If > The opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer on probation Is unsatisfactory or 
shows that he is unlikely to become efficient Gov- 
ernment may discharge him forthwith. 

(o) On the conclusion of his period of probation 
Government may confirm the officer in his appointment 
f or, if his work or conduct has in the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory. Government may 
’■finer discharge him from the Service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think fit. 


(d) If the power to make appointments in the Ser- 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer, that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
under clauses (b) and (c) above. 


(e\ An officer belonging to the Indian Administrative 
Service will be liable tn serve anywhere in Tndia 
mther under the Central Government or under a State 
Government. 



6o 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 [Fart I— Sec. 1 


(f) Scales of pay; — 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350 — 400 — 450 — 450—500—340— 
30— eOOE. B. — 30 — 870 — 40 — 950 (19 years). 

Senior Scale: Rs. 800 (0th year or under) — 30 — 
1,000 — 00 — 1,300 — 50 — 1,800 (25 years). 

A probationer will be started on the Junior time scale 
and permitted to count the period spent on probation 
towards leave, pension or increment In the time scale. 

(g) Provident Fund. — Pending the framing ol se- 
parate Provident Fund Rules for the Indian Admin- 
istrative Service* officers of this Service are eligible to 
subscribe to the General Provident Fund (Central 
Service). The minimum rate of subscription to this 
Fund is one anna in the rupee at present 

(h) Leave. — Pending the framing of separate Leave 
Rules for the Indian Administrative Service, officers 
of this Service are entitled to leave under the revised 
Leave Rules applicable to officers of the Central Ser- 
vices, Class I. 

(i) Medical Attendance. — Officers of the Indian 
Administrative Service are entitled to medical 
attendance benefits admissible under the All India 
Services (Medical Attendance) Rules 1954. 

(j) Retirement Benefits. — The terms are at present 
under consideration. 

2, Indian Foreign Service. — (aY Appointment will be 
made on probation for a period whidh will not ordinarily 
exceed 3 years. Successful candidates will be required 
to attend a preliminary course of lectures for three 
months in India and will then be sent abroad for 
training for 18 months, a part of which will be spent 
in a foreign University, where they will be required 
to study such subjects as are prescribed and a foreign 
language. On completion of training abroad proba- 
tioners will be required to undergo further trelrdng In 
India. During their period of training, the probation- 
ers will be required to pass one or more examinations 
before they become eligible for confirmation In the 
Service, 

(b) On the conclusion of Ma period of probation 
and on hia passing the prescribed examinations 
Government may confirm the officer in his appoint' 
ment, or if hia work or conduct has in the opinion 
of Government, been unsatisfactory, Government may 
either discharge him from the Service or may extend 
bis period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think fit. 

(c) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer on probation is unsatisfactory or 
shows that he is not likely to prove suitable for the 
Foreign Service, Government may discharge him 
forthwith. 

(d) If the power to make appointments In the Ser- 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer, that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
under clauses (b) and (c) 1 above. 

(e) Scales of pay: — 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350 — 400—450 — 450 — 500 — 540— 
30—500 — E. B— 30— 870 — 40—950 (19 years). 

Senior Scale: Rs. 800 (0th year or under) — 50 — 
1,000 — 00—1,300—50—1.800 (25 years), 

(f) A probationer will receive the following pay 
during probation: — 

First year Rs, 350 per mensem. 

Second year Rs. 400 per mensem. 

Third year Rs. 450 per mensem. 

This may be supplemented as necessary with an 
allowance towards the cost of training abroad. 

Note. — Annual increments during probation will be 
contingent on the probationer oassing +he or escribed 
tests if any and showing progress to the satisfaction 
of Government. 

On successful completion of probation, a probationer 
will be confirmed In the Indian Foreign Service. 

(g) An officer belonging to the Indian Foreign Ser- 
vice will be liable to serve anywhere inside or out- 
side India. 

(h) The Revised Leave Rules, 1933, as amended 
from time to time will apply to Members of the Ser- 
vice subject to certain modifications. Conditions In 
regard to Pension etc., will be determined by Govern* 
ment later* 


3. Indian Police Service. — (a) Appointment will be 
made on probation for a period ol two years which may 
be extended. Successful candidates will be required 
to undergo probation at such place and in such manner 
and pass such examinations during the period of pro- 
bation as Government may determine. 

<b> 1 

(c) y As in clauses (b), (c) and (d) for the Indian 

(d) . J Administrative Service. 

(e) (1) An officer belonging to the Indian Police 
Service will bo liable to serve anywhere in India 
either under the Central Government or under a State 
Government. 

(ii) All vacancies in the cadre of a particular State 
to be filled on the results of the competitive exami- 
nation shall so far as may be and subject to a general 
or special order of the Central Government, be filled 
from among the successful candidates ordinarily 
residing In the State or in a Part "C” State adjacent 
to such State. 

(f) Scales of pay: — 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350 — 350 — 380-^380 — 30 — »0-“ 
E, B.— 30— 770 — 40—850 (19 year*). 

Senior Scale: Rs. 000 (0th year or under)— 40— 
1,000 — 1,000 — 1,050—1*050 — 1,100 — 1,100 — 1,160 
(in the 22nd year). 

Selection Giade: Rs. 1,250. 

Note.— P osts remunerated above the time-scale (ie. 
Inspectors General of Police, Deputy-Inspectors Gene- 
eral of Police, and Superintendents of Police on the 
Selection Grade) constitute 20 per cent, of Senior 
posts under each State Government. 

U) \ 

(h) y As in clauses (g), (b) and (i) for the 

(I) J Indian Administrative Service. 

(J) It has been provisionally decided that officers 
of the Indian Police Service shall be entitled to re- 
tirement-cum-death benefit according to the same scale 
and pattern as applicable to officers of the Central 
Services, Class I. 

4. Indian Audit and Accounts Service, 

5. Indian Defence Accounts Service, 

6, Indian Railway Accounts Service, and 

7, Indian Customs and Excise Service. 

(a) Appointments will be made on probation for a 
period of 2 years, provided that this period may be 
extended If the officer on probation has not qualified 
for confirmation by passing the prescribed depart- 
mental examinations. Repeated failure to pass the 
departmental examinations within a period of 3 years 
will involve loss of appointment. 

(b) Probationers of the Indian Railway Accounts 
Service will also be required to undergo a course of 
training at the Railway Staff College, Baroda. and to 
pass the test prescribed by the College authorities 
They may, however, be put on to a working post on 
satisfactory completion of two years training, but they 
may not be confirmed till they have passed the teat 
at the Railway Staff College. Baroda, and passed the 
higher and lower departmental examinations. 

(c) Probationers of the Indian Railway Accounts 
Service will be required to pass a language examina- 
tion in Hindi by the lower standard, modified to suit 
the requirements of the Railways before their pay can 
be raised from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 In the time scale dur- 
ing tJhe period of their probation. Probationers who 
can read, write and speak in Hindi, may be exempted 
by the General Manager from passing the language 
examination. Failure to pas3 the examination within 
the probationary period involves liability to removal 
from service. 

(d) If for any reasons considered within his control, 
a probationer in the Indian Hallway Accounts Service 
wishes to withdraw from training, he will be liable 
to refund tlbe whole cost of his training and any other 
moneys paid to him during the period of his proba- 
tion. 

(e) If, in the opinion of Government or the 
Comptroller and Auditor General, as the case may be. 
the work or conduct of an officer on probation Is un- 
satisfactory, or shows that he Is unlikely to become 
efficient, Government may discharge him forthwith. 

(f) On the conclusion of his period of proba- 
tion, Government or the Comptroller and Auditor 

General as the case may be may confirm the officer 



Part I — £5ec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 195fi 


61 


in his appointment or if his work or conduct 
has, in the opinion of Government or the Comptroller 
and Auditor General, as the case may be, been un- 
satisfactory, Government may either discharge him 
from the service or may extend his period of 
probation for such further period as Government 
may think fit, provided that in respect of appointments 
to temporary vacancies there will be no claim to 
confirmation. 

Note. — A reference Is also invited to the last but 
one sub-paragraph of Rule 3 of the main Rule. 

(g) The Indian Defence Accounts Service carries 
with it a definite liability for service m any part of 
India as well as for Field Service in or out of India. 


(h) Scales of Pay: — 


Indian Audit and Accounts Service; 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350—350 — 380-^380- — 30—590 
— E. B, — 30 — 770—40—850. 

Senior Scale: Rs. 000 (6th year or under)-^0— 
1,000, — 1,000—1,050 — 1,050 — 1,100—1,100 — 1,150, 

Junior Administrative grades: Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 

1,600 — 1,000 — 100—1,800. 

Senior Administrative grades: Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 

2,000—2,000 — 125 — 2,250. 


Note 1, — Probationai^ officers will start on the 
minimum of the Junior Scale and will count their 
service for increments from the date of ioining. 


Note 2, — The officers on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs. 350 unless they 
pass the departmental examination in accordance with 
the rules which will be prescribed from time to time. 

Indian Defence Accounts Service : 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350—350-380—380—30—590— 
E. B. — 30 — 770 — 40 — 850. 

Senior Scale: Rs. 600 (0th year or under)— 40— 

1,000 — 1,000 — 1,050 — 1,050 — 1,100 — 1,100 — 1,150. 
Junior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600. 
Senior Administrative grade; Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2,000. 
Controller-General of Defence Accounts: Under 
consideration. 

Indian RaUu>ay Accounts Service: 

(a) Junior Scale: Rs. 350 — 350 — 380 — 380—30 — 
590 — E. B.— 30— 770— 40— 850. 

Senior Scale: Rs. 600 (0th year or under) — 40 — 

1.000 — 1,000 — 1,050—1,050 — 1,100—1,100 — 1,150. 

Junior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600. 
Senior Administrative grade: Rs, 1,800—100 — 

2.000 — 125—2,250. 


(b) On appointment, a probationer shall execute an 
agreement binding himself and one surety 
jointly and severally to refund in the event 
of his failing to complete probation to the 
satisfaction of the Central Government, any 
moneys paid to him consequent on his ap- 
pointment as probationer. 

(c) Increment from Rs. 350 to Rs. 380 will be 
stopped if they fail to pass Departmental 
examination within the two years’ probationary 
period. In cases where the probationary 
period has to be extended for failing to pass 
all the Departmental examinations within the 
stipulated period on their passing Depart- 
mental examinations and being confirmed after 
expiry of the extended period of probation, 
they will be allowed to draw the increments 
only from the date following that on which 
the last examination ends; this will not affect 
the date of their future increments. 

NoTE.—Probationary officers will start on the mini- 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of joining. They will, 
however be required to pass any departmental exa- 
mination or examinations that may be prescribed 
before their pay can be raised from Rs. 35U p.m, to 
Rs. 380 p.m. in the time scale. 


Indian Customs and Excise Service: 
Time Scale ; 


(i) Rs. 350 — 350—380—380 — 30 — 590 — E. B.— 30— 
770 — 40—850 (Junior Scale). 

(ii) Rs. 600—40—1 .000—1,000—1,050—1,050—1,100 
—4,100 — 1,150 (Senior Scale), 

Deputy Collectors of Customs — Rs. 1,000 — 50 — 1,400 
CplUctor^ot Customs, Grad* II— 1,300 — 60- 


Collectors of Customs, Grade I— Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 

2 , 000 , 

Deputy Collectors of Central Excise — Rs. 1,000 — 50 
—1,400. 

Collectors of Central Excise, Giade II — Rs. 1,300— 
60—1,000. 

Collectors of Central Excise, Grade 1 — Rs. 1,800 — 

— 100 — 2 , 000 . 

Note 1. — The officer on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs, 350 unless he 
passes the departmental examination in accordance 
with the rules which will be prescribed from time to 
time. 

Note 2, — It should be clearly understood by proba- 
tioners that their appointment would be subject to 
any change in the constitution of the Indian Customs 
and Excise Service which the Government of India 
may think proper to make from time to time and that 
they would have no claim for compensation in 
consequence of any such changes. 

8. Indian Income-tax Service Class I. — (a) Appoint- 
ments will be made on probation for a period of 2 
years provided that this period may be extended if 
the officer on probation has not qualified for confirma- 
tion by passing the prescribed departmental examina- 
tions. Repeated failures to pass the departmental exa- 
minations within a period of 3 years will involve loss 
of appointment. 

(b) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer on probation is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, 
Government may discharge him forthwith. 

(c) On the conclusion of his period of probation. 
Government may confirm the officer in his appoint- 
ment, or if his work of conduct has in the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory. Government may 
either discharge him from the service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think fit; provided that in respect of 
appoints to temporary vacancies there will be no 
claim to confirmation. 

(d) If the power to make appointments in the service 
is delegated by Government to any officer, that officer 
may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described in the above clauses. 

(e) Scales of Pay: 

Grade II: 

Time Scale: Rs. 350- -350— 380 -380—30 590— 

E. B.— 30— 770 — 40—4J50. 

Grade I : 

Time Scale: Rs. 600-40—1,000—4,000-4,050— 
1,050—1,100—1,100—1,150. 


Assistant Commissioners of Income-tax. 

Rs. 1,000—50—1,400. 

Commissioners of Income Tax, Grade II: 

Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600. 

Commissioners of Income Tax, Grade I: 

Rs. 1,800—100—2,000. 

Note 1. — The officer on probation will not be 
allowed the pay above the stage of Rs. 350 unless he 
passes the departmental examinations in accordance 
with the rules which will be prescribed from time to 
time. 

Note 2. — It should be clearly understood by pro- 
bationers that their appointment would be subject to 
any change in the constitution of the Income Tax 
Service Class I which the Government of India may 
think proper to make from time to time and that they 
would have no claim for compensation in consequence 
of any such changes, 

9. Transportation (Traffic) and Commercial Depart- 
ments of the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian 
Railways : 

(a) Candidates selected for appointment will be 
appointed as probationary officers in the Transporta- 
tion (Traffic) and Commercial Departments for a period 
of three years during which they will undergo the 
training as indicated in para, r, and put in a minimum 
period of one year’s probation in a working post. If 
the period of training has to be extended in any case, 
due to the training having not been completed satis- 
factorily, the total period of probation will be corres- 
pondingly extended, 

(b) If for any reasons considered within his control, 
a probationer in the Transportation (Traffic) and Com- 
mercial Department wishes to withdraw from training, 
he will be liable to refund the whole cost of his train- 
ing and anv other moneys paid to him during the 
period of hU probation. 



62 


[Part 1— Sec, 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12. 1955 


(c) During this probationary period the agreement 
which probationary officers are required to sign may 
be terminated by three months* notice on either side. 

(d) At the conclusion of the probationary term of 
3 years, officers, who have passed the written and oral 
tests prescribed in the subjects in which they have 
been trained, and, whose work and conduct has in the 
opinion of Government been found satisfactory will 
be confirmed in the Transportation (Traffic) and 
Commercial Departments. On confirmation their 
agreement will be continued subject to their service 
being terminable on six months* notice on either side. 
Failure to pass the prescribed written and oral tests 
involves liability to removal from service, 

(e) Within 5 years of their appointment as proba- 
tioners, officers may be allocated to the Transportation 
(Traffic) or the Commercial Department, They will 
thereafter, continue in the Department to which they 
are allotted unless it is considered necessary in the 
public Interest to transfer any particular officer from 
one to the other Department. 

On appointment, a probationer shall execute an 
agreement binding himself and one surety jointly and 
severally to refund in the event of his failing to com- 
plete probation to the satisfaction of the Central Gov- 
ernment, any moneys paid to him consequent on his 
appointment as probationer. 

(f) Probationers will be required to pass a language 
examination in Hindi by the lower standard, modified 
to suit the requirements of the Railways before their 
pay can be raised from Rs. 350 to Rs, 380 in the time 
scale during the period of their probation. Probationers 
who can read, write and speak in Hindi, may be 
exempted by the General Manager from passing Iho 
language examination. Failure to pass the examination 
within the probationary period involves liability to 
removal from service. 

(g) Officers (including probationers) of the Trans- 
portation (Traffic) and Commercial Departments of 
the Superior Revenue Establishment of Indian Rail- 
ways recruited under these rules, will not he entitled 
to pension on quitlng the service, but will be eligible 
throughout their service for the benefits of the 
Indian Railway Provident Fund, to which they will 
he required to subscribe, and by the rules of which 
Fund they will be required to abide. 

(h) Pay will commence from the date of joining 
service. Service for increments will also count from 
that date. 

(i) Officers recruited under these rules shall be 
eligible for leave in accordance with the rules for the 
time being in force applicable to officers of Indian 
Railways. 

(j) Officers will ordinarily be employed throughout 
their service on the railway to which they may be 
posted on first appointment and will have no claim as 
a matter of right to transfer to some other Railway. 
But the Government of India reserve the right to 
transfer such officers in the exigencies of service to 
any other railway or project in or out of India, 

(k) The relative seniority of officers appointed will 
ordinarily be determined by their order of merit in 
the competitive examination; if the period of training 
and consequently the period of probation has to be 
extended in any particular case due to the training 
having not been completed satisfactorily, the officer 
will be liable to lose in seniority. The Government of 
India, however, reserve the right of fixing seniority 
at their discretion in individual cases. They also 
reserve the right of assigning to officers appointed 
otherwise than by a competitive examination positions 
in the seniority list at their discretion. 

(l) Scales of Pay: 

Junior Scale: Rs. 350— *350— 380— 380— 30— 590— 
E, B, — 30 — 770—40—850, 

Senior Scale: Rs. 600 (1st to 6th year) — 40 — 1,000 
— 1,000 — 1.050 — 1,050 — 1,100 — '1,100— 1, 150. 

Junior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,600, 

Senior Administrative grade: Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2,000 
— 125—2,250. 

Note. — Probationary officers will start on the mini- 
mum of the Junior Scale and will count their service 
for increments from the date of joining. They will 
however, be required to pass any departmental 
examination or examinations that may be prescribed 
before their pay can be raised from Rs. 350 p.m. to 
Rs. 360 p.m. in the time scale, 

Increment from Ra. 350 to Rs. 380 will be stopped 
if they fail to pass the Departmental examinations 
within the first two years of the training and pro- 
bationary period. In cases where the training period 
has to be extended for failing to pass all the Depart- 
mental Examinations within the stipulated period, on 
their passing the departmental examinations after ex- 
piry of the extended period of training, they will be 
allowed to draw the increments only from the date 


following that on which the last examination ends; 
this will not affect the date of their future increments. 

(m) The increments will be given for approved 
service only and in accordance with rules of the 
Department. 

(n) Promotions to the administrative grades are 
dependent on the occurrence of vacancies in the 
sanctioned establishment and are made wholly by 
selection: mere seniority is considered to confer no 
claim to promotion. 

(o) The administrative appointments in the Trans* 
portation (Traffic) Department are also open to offi- 
cers of the Transportation (Power) Department. 

(p) The administrative appointments are not 
reserved for officers of the Transportation (Traffic) 
and Commercial or Transportation (Power) Depart- 
ments of the Superior Revenue Establishment of 
Indian Railways, and the Government of India re- 
serve the right to appoint at their discretion, an 
officer of any department of a Railway to any of 
these posts. 

(q) Officers of the Transportation (Traffic) and Com- 
mercial Departments are eligible for appointment to 
administrative posts in the Agency and the Division. 

(r) Courses of training for probationers in the 
Transportation (Traffic) and Commercial Departments. 

Note 1. — The Government of India reserve the right 
to reduce at their discretion, the period of training in 
the case of candidates who have had previous train- 
ing or experience either in the United Kingdom or 
India. 

Note 2.— Probationers will be required to undergo 
a course of training at the Railway Staff College, 
Baroda, and to pass the test prescribed by the College 
authorities. The probationers will not be confirmed 
till they have passed it, their training and probationary 
period being extended accordingly. 

Note 3. — -The programmes of training given below 
have been drawn up chiefly for the purpose of gui- 
dance; they may be varied at the discretion of General 
Managers to suit particular cases provided that the 
total aggregate period of training is not ordinarily 


curtailed. 

(i) Length of Courge — -Two years. Month* 

Training in Baroda Staff College — once In each 

of the two years ...... 3| 

Area School to learn Guard’s duties etc. , , i 

Working as Guard* ..... I 

Attached to Yard Master .... X 

Posted to Goods and Transhipment Shed . . ij 

Traffic Accounts, including personal preparation 

of Balance Sheet at Stations ... 2 

Area School to qualify as Assistant Station 

Master ....... I 

Working as Assistant Station Master* Station 
Master and Yard Foreman* ... 3 

Working as Assistant Locomotive Foreman* . X 

Working as Assistant Controller ... 2 

Training in District or Divisional office . . 2 

Training in Headquarters’ office (Operating) 

[3 \ Training in Headquarters’ office (Commcrcifll) 5 


Total . . 24 


^2) Provided he passes the examination # at the end 
of his two years’ training a probationer will be given 
charge of a working post on probation for a further 
year. 

(3) Examination will be held as may be required at 
the close of courses as well as at intervals during the 
period of training. 

♦Note, — Before a probationer is put to work inde- 
pendently as a Guard, Assistant Station Master, Station 
Master, Yard Foreman, Assistant Locomotive Foreman, 
or Assistant Controller, he must be examined by a 
responsible officer of the administration in the respec- 
tive duties for each of these posts and declared quali- 
fied. 

10. Indian Postal Service (Class I). — (a) Selected 
candidates will be under training in this department 
for a period which will not ordinarily exceed two 
years, During this period they will be required to 
jpass the prescribed departmental tegt. 



Part I— fltac. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FIBRUAHY 12, 1965 


«3 


(b) If, in the opinion of Government, the work or 
conduct of an officer under training is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient. Gov- 
ernment may discharge him forthwith. 

(c) On the conclusion of his period of training Gov- 
ernment may confirm the officer in his appointment 
or, if his work or conduct has in the opinion of Gov- 
ernment been unsatisfactory, Government may either 
discharge him from the service or may extend his 
period of training for such further period as Govern- 
ment may thmk fit. 

(d) If the power to make appointments in the ser- 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer, that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described m the above clauses. 

(e) Scales of Pay : 

Junior Time Scale: Rs, 350—350—380—380—30— 
590 — E.B, — 30 — 770 — 40 — 850. 

(Officers under training will draw pay in this time 
scale). 

Senior Time Scale: Rs. 600 — 40—1,000 — 1,000 — 
1,050 — 1,050 — 1,100 — “1,100 — 1,160. 

Directors of Postal Services: Rs. 1,300 — 60 — 1,000 

Postmaster-General: Rs. 1,800 — 100 — 2,000. 

(i) An officer under training will not be eligible to 
draw the next increment unless he passes the depart- 
mental examination. 

(g) It should be clearly understood by probationers 
that their appointment would be subject to any change 
in the constitution of the Indian Postal Service, Class 
I, which Government of India may think proper to 
make from time to time and that they would have 
no claim for compensation in consequence of any such 
changes. 

11. Military lands and Cantonments Service ( Class 1 
and Class II). 


Class I 
Semor Scale 

(in) Deputy Assistant Directors, Rs 6 oo — 40 — i } ooo — 

Mily. Lands and Cantonments, 1 , 000 — 1 , 050 — 1 ^ 050 — 

Mily. Estates Officers and 1 , 100 — 1 , 100 — 1 , 150 . 

Executive Officers (Grade I.) 


Junior Scale 

( iv ) Executive Officers (Grade II) 


Rs 35 C^- 3 SO— 38 o— 38 o 
— 30 ” 5 $>o— E. B .— 30 
— 770 — 40 — 850 


Class II 

(o) Executive Officers, (Class II) 


Rs. 27 — 25 — 500 — E. B* 
— 30 — 6 O — E, B . — 30 
“ 800 . 


(g) ( 1 ) Class I Officers (Grades I and II) will nor- 
mally be appointed as Deputy Assistant Directors, 
Military Estates Officers, and as Executive Officers to 
Class I Cantonments and Class II Cantonments to 
which sub-clause ( 1 ) of clause (e) of sub-section (4) 
of section 13 of the Cantonments Act, 1924 is applica- 
ble. 

(ii) Class II Executive Officers will normally be 
appointed to Cantonments other than those mentioned 
in ( 1 ) above. 

(h) (i) All promotions will be made by selection 
(seniority being considered only when the claims of 
two or more candidates are equal on merits) by 
Government on the recommendations of a Depart- 
mental Promotion Committee appointed in this behalf 
by the Government On promotion from Class II to 
Grade II of Class I, and from Grade II to Grade I of 
Class I, pay will be regulated under the Fundamental 
Rules 


(ii) No officer will be promoted to Grade I of Class 
I before the completion of a total period of 5 years in 
the Service (Class I and/or Class II). 


(a) A candidate selected for appointment shall be 
required to be on probation for a period which shall 
not ordinarily exceed 2 years. During this period he 
shall be required to undergo such course of train- 
ing in Cantonment and Land Administration as may 
be prescribed by Government for a period of not less 
than six months. 


(b) During the period of probation a candidate will 
be required to pass the prescribed departmental 
examination. 


(c) (I) If in the opinion of Government the work or 
conduct of an Officer on probation is unsatisfactory 
or shows that he is unlikely to become efficient, 
Government may discharge him after apprising him 
of the grounds on which it is proposed to do so, and 
after giving him an opportunity to show cause in 
writing before such order is passed 

(ii) If at the conclusion of the period of probation 
an Officer has not passed the Departmental Examina- 
tion mentioned in sub-para (b) above Government 
may, in its discretion, either discharge him from ser- 
vice, or if the circumstances of the case so warrant, 
extend the period of probation for such period not 
exceeding one year as Government may consider fit. 


(ill) On the conclusion of the period of probation 
Government may confirm an officer in his appoint- 
ment, or if his work or conduct has in the opinion 
of Government been unsatisfactory. Government may 
either discharge him after apprising him of the 
grounds on which it is proposed to do so and after 
giving him an opportunity to show cause m writing 
before auch order is passed, or extend the period of 
probation for such further period as Government may 
consider fit. 


(d) If no action is taken by Government under 
Sub-para (c) above, the period after the prescribed 
period of probation shall be treated as an engage- 
ment from month to month, terminable on either side 
on the expiration of one calendar month’s notice in 
writing, provided that the Officer shall have no claim 
to confirmation. 


(e) No annual increment which may become due 
will be admissible to a member of the Service during 
his probation, unless he has passed the departmental 
examination. An increment which was not thus 
drawn will be allowed from the date of passing of 
the departmental examination. 


(f) The scales of pay are as under: — 
Administrative Posts 


(0 Director, Mily. Lands and Rs. 1 , 600 — 100 — * 1 , 800 * 
Cantonments 

(if) Deputy Director, Mily, Lands (A) Rs. 1,300 — 60 — i, 6 oo. 
and Cantonments, (One appointment*) * 

(B)Ra, 1 , 000 — 50 — 1,400 


( 1 ) The Revised Leave Rules, 1933, as amended from 
time to time will apply 

(j) No member of the Services shall undertake any 
work not connected with his official duties without the 
previous sanction of Government 

12. The Central Secretariat Service. — (a) The Central 
Secretariat Service will consist of three grades as 
follows: — 

Grade I — Under Secretary Pay Rs 800—50 — 1,150. 

Grade II — Superintendent Pay Rs. 530—30—800. 

Grade III —Assistant Superintendent 1 Pay Rs. 275 
—25—500 

Direct recruitment is made to Grade III. 

(b) Officers recruited direct to Grade III will be on 
probation for 2 years during which they will undergo 
such training and pass such Departmental tests as may 
be prescribed by Government. Failure to show suffi- 
cient progress in the course of training or to pass the 
tests will result In the discharge of the probationer 
from service 

(c) On the conclusion of his period of probation. 
Government may confirm the officer in his appoint- 
ment, or if his work or conduct has m the opinion of 
Government been unsatisfactory, Government may 
either discharge him from the Service or may extend 
his period of probation for such further period as 
Government may think fit 

(d) If the power to make appointments In the Ser- 
vice is delegated by Government to any officer, that 
officer may exercise any of the powers of Government 
described in the above clauses 

(e) Officers of Grade III who have acquired suffi- 
cient experience by working in the Sections m the 
Secretariat and officer of Grade II will normally be 
heads of ‘Sections’ while officers of Grade I will nor- 
mally be in charge of Branches consisting of one or 
more Sections 

(f) Officers of Grade III with at least 6 years ser- 
vice in the grade will be eligible for promotion to 
Grade II and officers with a total service of 12 years 
in Grades II and III (including at least 4 years In 
Grade II) for piomotion to Grade I Departmental 
tests may be presenbed to determine the suitability of 
candidates for promotion 

(g) Officers of Grade I of the Central Secretariat 
Service will be eligible for appointment to the higher 
administrative posts m the Central Secretariat. 

(h) As regards leave, pension and other conditions 
of service officers of the Central Secretariat Service 
will be treated similarly to other Class I and Class II 
officers. 



<54 


TttlS GAZETTE .)* INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part I — Sec. 1 


APPENDIX V 30. Vilholia. 

A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ^ a *' e exce P t Gnjrat division:— 

Scheduled Castes if he belongs to one of the castes iviocni. 

specified in the list below under the State (or area) 3. In North Kanara district: — 

in which he and his family ordinarily reside. Kotegar. 

LIST OF SCHEDULED CASTES 


Assam 

Throughout the State: — 

1 . Bansphor. 

2. Bhuinmali or Mall. 

3. Brittial-Bania or Banla. 

4. Dihupi or Dhobi. 

5. Dugla or Dholi. 

6. Hira. 

7. Jhalo or Malo. 

8. Kaibartta or Jaliya. 

9. Lalbegi, 

10. Mahara, 

11. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

12. Muchi. 

13. Namasudra. 

14. Patni, 

15. Sutradhar. 

Bihar 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. BaurL 

2. Bantar. 

3. Bhogta. 

4. Chamar. 

5. Chaupal. 

6. Dhobi. 

7. Dom. 

8. Dusadh, including Dhari or Dharhi. 

9. Ghasi. 

10. Halalkhor. 

11. Hari, including Mehtar. 

12. Kanjar. 

13. Kuranar. 

14. Lalbegi. 

15. Modhi. 

10. Musahar. 

17. Nat. 

18. Pan. 

19. Pasi. 

20. Rajwar. 

21. Turi. 

2. In Patna and Tirhut divisions, and the districts 
of Monghyr, Bhagalpur, Pumea and Palamau: — 

Bhumij. 

3. In Patna, Shahabad, Gaya and Palamau dls^ 
tricts:— 

Bh'ulya. 

4. In Sihahabad district: — 

Dabgar. 

Bombay 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1. Ager. 

2. Asodl. 

3. Bakad. 

4. Bhambi. 

5. Bhangi. 

6. Chakrawadya-Dasar. 

7. Chalvadi. 

8. Chambhar, or Moohigar, or Samagar. 

9. Chena-Dasaru. 

IQ. Chuhar or Chuhra. 

11. Dakeleru. 

12. Dhegu-Megu. 

13. Dhor. 

14. Garoda. 

15. Halleer. 

10. Halsar, or Haslar. or Hulsavar. 

17. Holaya, or Garode. 

18. Kolcha, or Kolgha. 

19. Lingader. 

20. Madbigar. 

21. Madig or Mang. 

22. Mahar. 

23. Mahyavanshi. 

24. Mangarudi. 

25. Maghval, or Menghwar. 

26. Mini Madig, 

27. Mukri. 

28. Nadia. 

29. Rohit. 

30. Shenva, or Shindhaya. 

31. Shingdav, or Shingadya. 

32. Sodhi, 

33. Timali. 

34. Turi. 

35. Vankar. 


Madhya Pradesh 


Scheduled Castes Localities 

1. Basor or Burud 

2. Bahna or Bahana . 

3. Balahi or Balai 

4. Chamar . . . ^-Throughout the State. 

5. Dom . . . .1 

6. Mang . 

7. Mehtar or Bhangi . . ] 

8. Mochi . . * ,| 

9. Satnami . . . J 


to. Audhella . ■ .In Bilaspur District. 

11. Bedar ... * In Akola, Amravati and Buldana 

districts. 

12. Chadar . . . .In Bhandara and Sagar districts. 

13. Dahait or Dahayat . . In Damoh sub-division of Sagar 

district. 

14. Dewar . . . .In Bilaspur, Durg, Raipur, 

Bastar, Sarguja and Raigarh 
districts. 

15. Dhanuk . . - In Sagar district except in 

Damoh sub-division thereof, 

16. Dohor . . * .In Akola, Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Balaghat, Bhandara, 
Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha 
districts, 

17. Ghasi or Ghasia . , In Akola, Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Bala ghat, Bhandara, 
Bilaspur, Chanda, Durg, 
Wardha, Nagpur, Raipur, 
Sarguja, Bastar and Raigarh 
districts. 

18. Holiya .... In Balaghat and Bhandara 

districts, 

19. Kaikadl . . .In Akola, Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Bhandara, Chanda, 
Nagpur and Wardha districts. 

20. Katia . . * .In Akola, Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Balaghat, Bctul, 
Bhandara, Bilaspur, Chanda, 
Durg, Nagpur, Nimar, 
Raipurj Wardha, Bastar, 
Sarguja and Raigarh districts ; 
in Hoshangabad and Seoni- 
Malwa tahslls of Hoshangabad 
district j in Chhindwara 
district except in Seonl sub- 
division thereof ; and In 
Sagar district except in 
Damoh sub-division thereof, 

21. Khangar . . , In Bhandara, Buldana and 

Sagar districts ; and In 
Hoshangabad and Seoni- 
Malwa tahsils of Hoehanga- 
bad district. 

22. Kori . . . .In Amravati, Balaghat , BetuI, 

Bhandara, Buldana, Chhind- 
wara, Jabalpur, Mandla, 
Nimar, Raipur, Sagar* 
Durg, Bastar, Sarguja and 
Raigrah districts ; and in 
Hosnangabad district except 
in Harda and Sohagpur 
tahsil thereof, 

23. Madgi . . • .In Akola, Amravati, Buldana, 

Yeotmal, Balaghat, Bhandara, 
Chanda, Nagpur and Wardha 
districts. 

24* Mahar or Mehra • . Throughout the State except 

in Harda and Sohagpur tahslls 
of Hoshangabad district. 

2 <. Ruijhar . . In Sohagpur tahsil of Hoshanga- 

* baddistrict. 



'65 


Part X— Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1BB5 


Madras and Andhra 

Throughout each of the States:— 

1. Adi Andihra. 

2. Adi Dravida. 

3. Adi Karnataka. 

4. AJila. 

5. Arunthathiyar. 

0. Baira. 

7. Bakuda. 

8. Bandi. 

9. Bariki. 

10. Bavuri. 

11. Bellara, 

12. Byagari, 

13. Chachatt. 

14. Chakkiliyan. 

13. Chalavadi, 

10. Chamar. 

17. Chandala, 

18. Cheruman. 

19. Dandasi. 

20. Devandrakulathan. 

21. Dom or Dombara, Paidi> Pano. 

22. Ghasi or Haddi, Relll Saohandi 

23. Godagali. 

24. Godari. 

25. Godda. 

20. Gosangi, 

27. Haala. 

28. Holey a. 

29. Jaggali. 

30. Jambuvulu. 

31. Kadan. 

32. Kalladi. 

33. Kanakkan. 

34. Karimpalan. 

35. Kodalo. 

36. Koosa. 

37. Koraga. 

38. Kudubi. 

39. Kudumban. 

40. Kuravan. 

41. Kurichchan. 

42. Madari, 

43. Madiga. 

44. Maila. 

45. Mala (Including Agency Malas) 

46. Mala Dasu. 

47. Malasar, 

48. Matangl. 

49. Mavilan. 

60. Moger. 

51. Much!. 

52. Mundala. 

53. Nalakeyava. 

54. Nayadi. 

55. Pagadai. 

50. Painda. 

57. Paky. 

58. Pallan. 

69. Pambada. 

60, PamidL 
01. Panan. 

62. Panchamft. 

63. Panniandl 

64. Faraiyan, 

65. Paravan. 

66. Pulayan. 

67. Puthirai Vann an 
08, Raneyar 

69. Samagara 

70. Samban. 

71. Safari. 

72. Semman. 

73. Thoti. 

74. Tiruvalluvar. 

75. Valluvan. 

76. Valmtki. 

77. Vettuvan. 

Orissa 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Adi-Andihra 

2. Amant or Amat 

3. Audhelia. I 

4 Badil. 

5, Bagheti. 

6. Bajikar. 

7* Bari, 

8. Bariki. 

9. Bflaor or Burud 

10. Bauri. 

11. Bauti. 

12. Bavuri. 

13. Bedia or Bella. 

14. Beldar, 

15. Bhata, 

10. BhUmil. 


17. Chachati, 

18 Chamar. 

19. Chandala (Chandal). 

20. Cherua or Chhelia. 

21. Dandasi. 

22. Desuabhumij. 

23. Dewar. 

24. Dhanwar. 

25. Dharua, 

20. Dhoba or Dhobi. 

27. Dom or Dombo. 

28. Dosadha. 

29. Ganda. 

30. Ghantarghada or Ghantra. 

31. Ghasi or Ghasia. 

32. Ghogia. 

33. Ghusuria. 

34. Godagali, 

35. Godari. 

36. Godra. 

37. Gokha. 

38. Gunju or Ganju. 

39. Haddi or Hadi or Hart. 

40. Irika. 

41. Jaggali. 

42. Kandra or Kandara. 

43. Karua. 

44. Katia. 

45. Kela. 

46. Khadala. 

47. Kodalo. 

48. Kori. 

49. Kumbhar, 

50. Kurunga. 

51. Laban. 

52. Laheri. 

53. Madari. 

54. Madiga. 

55. Mahuria. 

56. Mala or Jhala. 

57. Mang, 

58. Mangan. 

59. Mehra or Mahar. 

60. Mehtar or Bhangi. 

01, Mewar. 

62. Mochi or Muchl. 

03. Mundapotta. 

64. Nagarchi. 

05, PaidL 

66. Painda. 

67. Pamidl. 

68. Pan or Pano. 

69. Panchama. 

70. Panika. 

71. Panka. 

72. Pantantl. 

73. Pap. 

74 Pasi. 

75. Patial or Patikar or Patratati or Patua. 

76. Pradhan. 

77. Raina, 

78. Rem. 

79. Sabakhia, 

80. Samasi. 

81. Sanei. 

82. Sapari, 

83. Satnami. 

84. Sidhxia. 

85. Slnduria. 

86. Siyal. 

87. Sukull. 

88. Tamadla. 

89. Tamudia. 

90. Tiar or Tlor 

91. Turi, 

92. Valamiki or Valmiki, 


Punjab 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Ad Dharmi. 

2. Bangall. 

3. Barar. 

4. Batwal. 

5. Bawarla. 

6. Bazigar, 

7. Balmiki or Chura, 

8. Bhanjra. 

9. Chamar. 

10. Chanal. 

11. Dagi. 

12. Dhanak. 

13. Dumna or Mahasha. 

14. Gagra. 

15. Gandhila. 

10. Kablrpanthl. 

17. Khatik. 

18 Kori or Koli. 

19. Marija or Marecha, 

20, Mazfrabt. 



66 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIa, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part I— Sec. 1 


21. Megh. 

22. Nat 

23. Od. 

24. Past 

25. Perna. 

26. Pherera. 

27. Ramdasi or Ravidasi. 

28. Sanhat 

29. SanhaL 

30. Sansi. 

31. Sapela. 

32. Sarera. 

33. Sikllgar. 

34. Sirkiband, 

Uttar Pradesh 

I. Throughout the State: — 

1. Agariya. 

2. Badi. 

3. Badhlk. 

4. Baheliya. 

5. Balga. 

6. Balswar. 

7. Bajaniya. 

8. Bajgi, 

9. Balahar. 

10. Balmiki. 

11. Bangall, 

12. Banmanus. 

13. Bansphor. 

14. Barwar. 

15. Basor. 

16. Bawariya. 

17. Beldar, 

18. Beriya. 

19. Bhantu. 

20. Bhoksa. 

21. Bhulya. 

22. Bhuylar. 

23. Borla. 

24. Chamar. 

25. Chero 

26. Dabgar. 

27. Dhangar. 

28. Dhanuk. 

29. Dharkar. 

30. Dhobi. 

31. Dihusia or Jhusla, 

32. Dom. 

33. Domar. 

34. Dusadb. 

35. Qharaml. 

30. Ghaslya. 

37. Gual. 

38. Habura. 

39. Hart 

40. Hela. 

41. Jatava, 

42. Kalabaz. 

43. Kan jar. 

44. Kapariya. 

45. Karwal. 

46. Khairaha. 

47. Kharot. 

48. Kharwar (excluding Benbansl). 

49. Kol, 

50. Korwa. 

51. Lalbegt 

52. Majhwar. 

53. Nat. 

54. Pankha, 

55. Parahlya. 

50. Pasi, 

57. Patari. 

58. Rawat. 

59. Saharya. 

00. Sanuriniya. 

01. Sanfliya. 

02. Shilpkar. 

03. Turaiha. 

2. In Bundelkhand Division and the portion of Mirza 
pur district south of Kalmur Range: — 

Gond. 

West Bengal 

"Tiroughout the State:— 

1. Bagdi. 

2. Bahella. 

3. Baltl. 

4. Bauri. 

5. Bedlya. 

0. Beldar. 

7. Bhulmali. 

8. Bhuiya. 

9. Bfhumij. 

10'. Bind. 

II, Chamar. 

12. Dhoba. 


13. Boat 

14, Dom. 

16. Dosadh. 

10. Ghast 

17. Gonrhi. 

18. Hari. 

19. Jalia Kaibartta. 

20. Jhalo Malo or Male. 

21. Radar. 

22. Kandra. 

23. Kaora. 

24. Karenga 
25 Kastha, 

26. Kaur. 

27. Khaira. 

28. Khatik. 

29. Koch. 

30. Kopai. 

3 1 K on war. 

32. Kora. 

33. Kotal, 

34. Lalbegi. 

35. Lodha. 

36. Lohar. 

37. Mahar, 

38. Mahli. 

39. Mai, 

40. Mallah. 

41. Malpahariya, 

42. Mehtor, 

43. Muchi. 

44. Musahar. 

45. Nagesia. 

40. Namasudra. 

47. Ndnlya. 

48. Paliya. 

49. Pan. 

50. Pasi. 

51. PatnL 

52. Pod. 

53. Rabha. 

54. Rajbanshi. 

55. Rajwar. 

50, Sunri, 

57. Tiyar. 

58. Turi. 


Hyderabad. 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Anamuk. 

2. Aray (Mala). 

3. Arwa Mala. 

4. Beda (Budga) Jangam. 

5. Bindla. 

6. Byagara. 

7. Chalvadi. 

8. Chambhar. 

9. Dakkal (Dokkalwar). 

10. Dhor. 

11. Ellamalwar (Yellammalawandlu). 

12. Holeya. 

13. Holeya Dasari. 

14. Kolupulvandlu. 

15. Madiga. 

10. Mahar. 

17. Mala. 

18. Mala Dasari. 

19. Mala Hannal. 

20. Malajangam. 

21. Mala Mastl. 

22. Mala Sale (Netkani). 

23. Mala Sanyast 

24. Mang. 

25. Mang Garodi. 

26. Manne. 

27. Mashti. 

28. Mehtar. 

29. Mitha Ayyalvar. 

30. Moohi. 

31. Samagara. 

32. SIndhollu (Chlndollu). 


Madhya Bharat 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Bagri or Bagdi. 

2. Balai. 

3. Barahar or Basod. 

4. Bargunda. 

5. Bedia. 

6. Bhambi. 

7. Bhangi or Mehtar. 

8. Chamar. 

9. Chidar. 

10. Dhanuk. 

11. Kanjar, 

12. Khatik. 

13. Koli. 



Part I— Sec. 1] THE GAZETTE 6E INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 10S3 


67 


14. Mabar. 

15. Mochi. 

16. Nat 

17. Pardht 

18. Pasi. 

19. Sans! 


Mysore. 

1. Throughout the State except in Bellary District: — 

1. Adidravida. 

2. Aciikarnataka. 

3. Banjara or Lambam, 

4. Bhovi. 

5. Koracha. 

6. Korama. 

2. In Beliary district:— 

1. Adi Andhra. 

2. Adi Dravida. 

3. Adikarnataka. 

4. Aj^la. 

5. Arunthathiyar. 

6. Baira. 

7. Bakuda. 

8. Bandb 

9. Bariki. 

10. Bavurl. 

11. Bellara. 

12. Byagari. 

13. Chachati. 

14. Chakkiliyan. 

15. Chalavadi. 

16. Chamar. 

17. Chandala. 

18. Cheruman. 

10. Dandasi, 

20. Devendrakulathan. 

21. Dom or Dombara, Paidi, Pano, 

22. Ghasi or Haddi, Relll Saohandi. 

23. Godagali. 

24. Godarl. 

25. Godda. 

26. Gosangl. 

27. HaslSL 

28. Holeya. 

20. Jaggali. 

30. Jambuvulu. 

31. Kadan. 

32. Kalladi. 

33. Kanakkan. 

34. Karimpalan. 

35. Kodalo. 

30, Koosa. 

37. Korag, 

38. Kudubi. 

39. Kudumban. 

40. Kuravan, 

41. Kurichchan. 

42. Madarl. 

43. Madlgft. 

44. Maila. 

45. Mala (including Agency Malas). 

46. Mala Dam. 

47. Malasar. 

48. Matangi. 

49. Mavilan. 

50. Moger. 

51. Muchi. 

52. Mundala. 

53. Nalakeyava. 

54. Nayadi. 

55. Pagadai. 

56. PaFnda. 

57. Paky, 

58. Pallan 

59. Pambada. 

60. Pamidi. 

61. Pahan. 

62. Panchama. 

63. Parmiandi. 

64. Paraiyau, 

65. Parayan, 

66. Pulayan 

67. Puthirai Vannan. 

68. Raneyar. 

89. Samagara, 

70. Samban. 

71. Sapari. 

72. Semman. 

73. Thoti. 

74. Tiruvalluvar. 

75. Valluvan, 

76. Valmiki. 

77. Vett uvati 

Patiala and East Punjab States Union 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Ad Dharmt 
2. Bangali. 


3. Barar. 

4. Batwal. 

5. Bawaria. 

6. Bazigar. 

7. Balmiki or Ghura. 

8. Bhanjra. 

9. Chamar. 

10. Chanal. 

11. Dagi. 

12. Dhanak. 

13. Dumna or Mahasha. 

14. Gagra, 

15. Gandhila. 

10, Kabirpanthi. 

17. Khatik, 

18. Kori or Koli. 

19. Marija or Marecha. 

20. Mazhabl, 

21. Megih. 

22. Nat. 

23. Od, 

24. Past 

25. Perna. 

26. Pherera. 

27. Ramdasi or Ravidasi. 

28. Sanhai. 

29. Sanhai. 

30. Sansl. 

31. Sapela. 

32. Sarera, 

33. Sikilgar, 

34. SirkJbrand. 


Eajasthan 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Adi Dharmi. 

2. Ahert 

3. Badi. 

4. Bagri, 

5. Bajgar. 

6. Bansphor. 

7. Bargi. 

8. Bawaria. 

9. Bhand. 

10. Bhangi, 

11. Bidakia. 

12. Chamar. 

13. Chura. 

14. Dabgar. 

15. Dhankia. 

16. Dheda. 

17. Dome. 

18. Gandla. 

19. Garancha Mehtar, 

20. Godhi. 

21. Jatia. 

22. Kalbelia. 

23. Kapadia Sansi. 

24. Khangar, 

25. Khatka. 

20. Koooh Band. 

27. Koria, 

28. Kunjar. 

29. Madarl (Bazigar), 

30. Majhabi. 

31. Mehar 

32. Mehtar, 

33. Mochi, 

34. Nut. 

35. Past 

36. Ralgar. 

37. Ramdasla. 

38. Rawal, 

39. Sarbhangi. 

40. Singlwala, 

41. Sansl. 

42. Thori. 

43. Tirgar. 

44. Valmiki. 


Saurasfatra 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Bawa (Dhedlh), 

2. Bhangi. 

3. Chamadia. 

4. Chamar. 

5 Dangashia, 

6. Garoda. 

7. Garmatang. 

8. Hadl. 

9. Meghwal. 

10. Senvn 

11. Shemalia, 

12. Thori. 

13. Turl. 

14. Turi-Barot 

15. Vankar. 



68 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUAHY 12, 1955 


TPakt T— Sec. 1 


Travancore-Cochin 


Bllaupur 


Throughout the State: — 

1. Ayyanavar. 

-2. Bharatar. 

Q. Chakkillyan, 

4. Domban. 

5. Eravalan. 

6. Kakkaian. 

7* Kanakkan, 

8, Kavara. 

9, Kootan (Koodan). 

10. Kuravan. 

11. Hannan, 

12. Nayadi. 

13. Padannan. 

14. Pidlan. 

16. Palluvan. 

16. Panan, 

17. Paravan. 

18. Parayan (Sambavar), 

19. Pathiyan. 

20. Perumannan, 

21. Pulayan. 

22. Thandan. 

23. Ulladan. 

24. Uraly. 

25. Vallon. 

26. Valluvan. 

27. Vannan. 

28. Velan. 

29. Vetan. 

30. Vettuvan. 


Ajmer 

Throughout the State: — 

1. AherL 

2. Bagrl. 

3. Balai. 

4. Bamhhi. 

5. Banspihod. 

0, Baori. 

7. Bargi. 

8. Bazigar. 

9. Bhangl. 

10. Bidakla. 

11. Chammar. 

12. Dabgar. 

13. Dhanak. 

14. Dhed, 

15. Dhobi. 

10. Dholi. 

17. Dom. 

18. Garoda, 

19. Gancha. 

20. Jatava. 

21. Kalbelia. 

22. Kanjar. 

23. Khangar, 

24. Khatik. 

25. Koll. 

26. Koria, 

27. Kuchband. 

28. Mahar, 

29. MegihwaL 

30. Mochi. 

31. Nat. 

32. Pasl. 

33. Balgar. 

34. RawaL 

35. Sansl. 

36. Sarbhangl 

37. Sargara. 

30. Satia. 

39, Shorl. 

40. Tirgar. 


Bhopal 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Balahi. 

2. Basar. 

3. Bedia. 

4. Beldar, 

6. Chamar. 

6. Chitar. 

7. Dhanuk. 

8. Dome. 

9. Klhatik. 

10. Koli. 

11. Kanjar, 

12. Mehtar, Bhangi. 

13. Mehar, 

14. Mang. 

15. Nut. 

16 . Sllawat 


Throughout the State: — 

1. Chamar. 

2. Julahe. 

8. Dumne (Bhanjre), 

4. Chuihre. 

5. Hesi (Turi). 

0, Chhimbe (Dhobi). 

7. Bengali. 

8. Sarehde. 

9. Daule, 


Coorg 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Adi Dravida. 

2. Adi Karnataka. 

3. Adiya. 

4. Balagai. 

6. Holeya* 

0. Madiga. 

7. Much!. 

8. Mundala. 

9. Panchama, 

10. Paraya. 

11. Samagara. 


Delhi 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Adi-Dharmi. 

2. Agria. 

3. Aheria, 

4. Balai. 

5. Banjara. 

0. Bawaria. 

7. Bazigar. 

8. Bhangi. 

9. Bhil. 

10. Chamar. 

11. Chanwar Chamar, 

12. Choihra (Sweeper). 

13. Chuhra (Balmiki). 

14. Dhanak or Dhanuk. 

15. Dhobi, 

10. Dom. 

17. Gharraml. 

18. Jatya or Jatav Chamar, 

19. Julaha (Weaver), 

20. Kabirpanthl. 

21. Kachihandha, 

22. Kanjar, 

23. Khatlk. 

24. Koli. 

25. Lalbegi 

26. Madari, 

27. Mallah. 

28. Mazhabi, 

29. Megwal. 

30. Mochi. 

31. Nat (Rana). 

32. Pasi. 

33. Perna, 

34. Ram Dasia. 

36. Ravldasi or Raidasi. 

36. Behgarh or Ralgar. 

37. Sansi. 

38. Sapera. 

39. Slkligar. 

40. Singiwala or Kalbelia. 

41. Sirkiband. 


Himachal Pradesh 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Ad-dharmi. 

2. Balmiki or Chura or Bhangi or Sweeper 

3. Bengali. 

4. Banjara. 

5. Barar. 

0. Bawaria. 

7. Bazigar. 

8. Hesi. 

9. Bhanjra, 

10. Chamar. 

11. Chanal. 

12. Dagi, 

13. Daole. 

14. Dhaki or Toori 
16. Doom or Doomna. 

16. Kabirpanthl or Julaha or Keer. 

17. Koli, 

18. Mazhabi. 

19. Mochi. 

20. Nat. 

21. Od. 

22. Pasi. 

23. Phrera. 

24. Ramdasi or Ravldasi, 

25. Ramdaala. 



69 


PART 1—&EC. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1055 


26. Rehar. 

27. Sansl. 

2B. Sapeia. 

20. Sikligar, 

30. Sirkiband. 

Kuteh 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Bhangi. 

2. Chamar, 

3. Garoda. 

4. Meghwal. 

5. Turi. 

6. Turi (Barot). 

Manipur 

Throughout the State: — 

Castes, races or tribes, or parts of, or groups 
within, castes or tribes specified as Scheduled 
Castes in relation to the State of Assam. 

Tripura 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Bagdi. 

2. Baiti, 

3. Bhunar. 

4. Chamar, 

5. Dandasi. 

0. Dhenuar. 

7. Dhoba. 

8. Dual. 

9. Dum. 

10. Ghasi. 

11. Gour, 

12. Gunar. 

13. Gur. 

14. Gorang. 

15. Jalia Kaibarta, 

10. Kahar. 

17. Kallndi. 

18. Kan. 

19. Kanugh. 

20. Ketrt. 

21. Khar la. 

22. Khadit. 

23. Khemcha. 

24. Koch. 

25. Kpir. 

26. Kol. 

27. Kora. 

28. Kotal. 

29. Mali. 

30. Bhuimali. 

31. Mehtor, 

32. Much!. 

33. Namsudra. 

34. Patni, 

35. Sabar. 

36. Mahisyadas. 

Vlndhya Pradesh 


2, In the Tribal Areas other than the Autonomous 
Districts: — 

1. Abor. 

2. Aka. 

3. Apatanl. 

4. Dafla. 

5. Galong. 

6. Khamptl. 

7. Mishml, 

8. Any Naga tribes. 

9. Singpho. 

10, Momba. 

11. Sherdukpen. 

3. In the State of Assam excluding the Tribal Areas: — 

1. Boro — Borokachari. 

2. Deorl. 

3. Hojai. 

4. Kachari. 

5. Lalung. 

0. Mech. 

7. Miri. 

8. Rabha. 

Bihar 


1, Throughout the State: — 

1. Asur, 

2. Balga. 

3. Bathudi. 

4. Bedia 

5. Binjhla. 

6. Blrhor. 

7. Biriia. 

8. Chero. 

9. Chik Baraik. 

10. Gond. 

11. Gorait. 

12. Ho. 

13. Karmall. 

14. Kharla, 

15. Kharwar, 

16. Khond. 

17. Kisan. 

18. Kora, 

19. Korwa. 

20. Lohara. 

21. Mahll, 

22. Mai Paharla. 

23. Munda. 

24. Oraon. 

25. Parhaiya. 

26. Santal. 

27. Sauria Paharia, 

28. Savar. 

2. In the districts of Ranchi, Singbhum, Hazarlbagh, 
Santal Parganas and Manbhum: — 

Bhumii . 


Throughout the State: — 

1. Basor (Bansphor). 

2. Chamar. 

3. Dahait. 

4. Dharkar. 

6, Dher. 

6. Dom. 

7. Domar or Doris. 

8. Kuchbandhla, 

9. Mehtar or Rhangi or Dhanuk. 

10. Mochl. 


APPENDIX VI 


A candidate shall be held to be a member of the 
Scheduled Tribes if he belongs to one of the Tribes 
specified in the list below under the State (area) in 
which he and hie family ordinarily reside. 

LIST OF SCHEDULED TRIBES 


1. In the Autonomous 


Assam 

Districts : — 


1. Dlmasa (Kachari). 

2. Garo. 

3. Hajong. 

4. Khasi and Jaintia, 

5. Any Kuki tribes. 

6. Lakher. 

7. Any Lushai (Mizo) tribes. 

8. Mlkir. 

9. Any Naga tribes. 

10. Synteng. 


Bombay 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Barda, 

2. Bavacha. 

3. Bhil, including 
Bhagalia, 

Bhil Garasia, 

Dholi Bhil, 

Dungri Bhil, 

Dungri Garasia, 

Mewasi Bhil, 

Raval Bhil, and 
Tadvi Bhil, 

4. Chodhara, 

5. Dhanka. 

6. Dhodia. 

7. Dubla. 

8. Gamit or Gamta. 

9. Gond, 

10. Kathodi or Katkari. 

11. Konkna. 

12. Koli Dhor. 

13. Koli Mahadev. 

14. Mavchi. 

15. Naikda or Nayak. 

16. Pardhi including. 
Advlchlncher, and 
Phanse Pardhi, 

17. Patella. 

18. Pomla. 

19. Powara. 

20. Rathawa. 

21. Thakur. 

22. Valvai. 

23. Varli. 

24. Vasava. 



70 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


[Part I— SeC. 1 


Madhya Pradesh 

In — 

(1) Melghat taluq of Amravati district. 

(2) Baihar lahsil of Balaghat district. 

(3) Bhanupratapmir, Bijapur, Dantewara, Jagdai- 
pur, Kanker, Kondagaon, Konta and Narayan- 
pur talhsils of Bastar district. 

(4) Betul and Bhainsdehi tahslls of Betul district, 

(5) Katghora tahsil of Bilaspur district. 

(6) Suroncha and Gharchiroli tahsils of Chanda 
district. 

(7) Amarwara, Chhindwara and Lakhnadon 
tahsils of Chhindwara district. 

18) Balod (Sanjari) tahsil of Durg district, 

(9) Mandla, Niwas and Ramgarh (Dindori) 
tahsils of Mandla district. 

(10) Harsud tahsil of Nimar district. 

(11) Dharamjaigarh Ghargoda, Jashpurnagar and 

Kharsla tahsils of Raigarh district. 

(12) Ambikapur, Baikunthpur, Bharatpur, Janak- 
pur, Manendragarh, Pal, Samari and Sitapur 
tahsils of Sarguja district: — 

1. Andh. 

2. Baiga. 

3. Bhaina. 

4. Bharia-Bhumia, or Bhuinhar-Bhumia. 

5. Bhattra. 

6. Bhil. 

7. Bihunjia, 

8. Binjhwar. 

9. Birhul or Birhor. 

10. Dhanwar. 

11. Gadaba or Gadba, 

12. Gond [including Madia (Marla) and Mudia 
(Muria) ]. 

13. Halba. 

14. Kamar. 

15. Kawar or Kanwar. 

16. Kharia. 

17. Kondh or Khond or Kandh. 

18. Kol. 

19. Kolan. 

20. Korku. 

21. Korwa. 

22. Majhwar, 

23. Munda. 

24. Nagesia or Nagasia. 

25. NIhal, 

26. Oraon, 

27. Pardhan. 

28. Pardihi. 

29. Parja. 

30. Saonta or Saunta. 

31. Sawar or Sawara. 


Madras and Andhra 

Throughout each of the States: — ■ 

1. Aranadan. 

2. Bagata. 

3. Bhottadas— Bodo Bhottada, Muna Bhottada 

and Sano Bhottada. 

4. Bhumias— Bhuri Bhumia and Bodo Bhumia. 

5. Chenchu. 

6. Gadabas — Boda Gadaba, Cerllam Gadaba, 

Franji Gadaba, Jodia Gadaba, Olaro 
Gadaba, Pangi Gadaba and Pranga Gadaba. 

7. Gondi — Modya Gond and Rajo Gond. 

8. Goudus — Bato, Bhirithya Dudhokouria, Hato, 

Jatako and Joria. 

9. Kosalya Goudus — Bosothoriya Goudus, Chitti 

Goudus, Dangayath Goudus. Doddu 
Kamarlya, Dudu Kamaro, Ladiya Goudus 
and Pullosoriya Goudus, 

10. Magatba, Goudus — Berina Goudu, Booda 

Magatna, Dongayath Goudu. Ladya Goudu. 
Poona Magatha and Sana Magatba. 

11. Holva. 

12. Jadapus. 

13. Jatapus, 

14. Kammara. 

15. Kattunayakan. 

16. Khattis— Khatti, Kommarao and Lohara. 

17. Kodu. 

18. Kommar. 

19. Konda Dhoras. 

20. Konda Kapus. 

21. Kotidareddis. 

22. Kondhs — Desaya Kondhs, Dongria Kondhs, 

Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikirla Kondhs and Yenity 
Kondhs, 

23. Kota. 

24. Kotia — Bartika. Bentho Oriya, Dhulia or Dulia, 

Holva Paiko, Putiya, Sahrona and Sidho 
Paiko. 

25. Koya or Goud, with its sub-sects. — Raja or 

Rasha Koyas, Lingadhari Koyas (ordinary) 
and Kottu Koyas, 

20. Kudlya 


27. Kurumana. 

28. Manna Dhora. 

29. Maune. 

30. Mukha Dhora — Nooka Dhora. 

31. Muria. 

32. Paigarapu. 

33. Palasi. 

34. Paniyan. 

35. Porjas — Bodo, Bonda, Daruva, Dldua, Jodia, 

Mundili, Pengu, Pydi and Saliya. 

36. Reddi Dhoras. 

37. Savaras — Kapu Servaras, Khutto Savaras and 

Maliya Savaras. 

38. Shoiaga. 

39. Toda, 

40. Inibabitants of the Laccadive, Mmicoy and 

Amlndlvi Islands who, and both of whose 
parents, were born in these Islands. 

Orissa 

Throughout the State:— 

1. Bagata. 

2. Baiga. 

3. Banjara of Banjari. 

4. Bathudi. 

5. Bhuiya or Bhuyan, 

6. Binihal. 

7. Binjhia or Binjhoa. 

8. Birhor. 

9. Hondo Poraja. 

10. Chenchu, 

11. Dal. 

12. Gadaba. 

13. Ghara. 

14. Gond. 

15. Gorait or Korait. 

16. Ho. 

17. Jatapu. 

18. Juang, 

19. Kawar, 

20. Kharia or Kharian. 

21. Khar war. 

22. Khond (Kond), or Kandha, or Nanguli Kandha, 

or Sitha Kandha, 

23. Klsan. 

24. Yolah-Kol-Loharas, 

25. Kolha. 

20. Koli. 

27. Kondadora. 

28. Kora, 

29. Korua. 

30. Koya. 

31. Kulis. 

32. Mahali; 

33. Mankldi. 

34. Mankirdia, 

35. Mlrdhas. 

36. Munda (Munda-Lohara and Munda-Mahalis), 
37 Mundarl. 

38. Oraon. 

39. Paroja. 

40. Santal. 

41. Saora, or Savar, or Saura, or Sahara. 

42. Tharur. 


Punjab 

In Spiti and Lahaul in Kangra District:— 
Tibetan. 


West Bengal 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Bhutia. 

2. Lepcha. 

3. Mech, 

4. Mru. 

5. Munda. 

0. Oraon. 

7. Santal. 


Hyderabad 

Throughout the State: — 

1 AndJh. 

2. Bhil. 

3. Chenchu, or Chenchwa, 

4. Gond (including Naikpod and Rajgond). 

5. Hill Reddis. 

6. Kolam (including Mannervarlu), 

7. Koya (including Bhine Koya and Rajkoya). 

8. Pardhan, 

9. Thotl. 



Part I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1953 


Madhya Bharat 

1. Throughout the State: — 

1- Gond, 

2. Korku, 

3. Seharia. 

2. In the Revenue District of Jhabua; in the tehsils 
of Sendhwa, Barwani, Raj pur, Khargone, Bhikangaon 
and Maheshwar of the Revenue District of Khargone; 
in the tahsil of Sailana of the Revenue District of 
Ratlam, in the tehsils of Sardarpur, Kukshi, Dhar and 
Manawar of the Revenue District of Dhar: — 

Bhils and Bhilalas (inclusive of sub-tribes). 


Mysore 

1, Throughout the State except in Bellary district:— 


1. Hasalaru. 

2 . Iruliga. 

3. Jenu Kuruba. 

4. Kadu-Kuruba. 

fl. Maleru. 

0. Soligaru. 

2. In Bellary district: — 

1. Aranadan, 

2. Bagala. 

3. Bhottadas — Bodo Bhottada, Muria Bhottada 

and Sano Bhottada. 

4. Bhumias — Bhuri Bhuinia and Bodo Bhumia, 

5. Chenchu. 

6. Gadabas — Boda Gadaba, Cerllam Gadaba, 

Franji Gadaba, Jodia Gadaba, Olaro 
Gadaba, Pangi Gadaba and Pranga Gadaba. 

7. Gondi — Modya Gond and Rajo Gond. 

8. Goudus — Bato, Bhirithya Dudhokouria, rfato, 

Jatako and Joria. 

9. Kosalya Goudus — Bosothoriya Goudus, 

Chltti Goudus, Dangayath Goudus, Dodd 
Kamariya, Dudu Kamaro, Ladiya Goudus 
and Pullosoriya Goudus. 

10. Magatha Goudus— Bernia Goudu, Boodo 

Magatha, Dongayath Goudu, Ladya Goudu, 
Ponna Magatha and Sana Magatha. 

11. Holva. 

12. Jadapus. 

13. Jatapus. 

14. Kamara. 

15. Kattunayakan. 

16. KJhattis-Khatti, Kommarao and Lohara. 

17. Kodu. 

18. Kommar. 

19. Konda Dhoras. 

20. Konda Kapus. 

21. Kondareddis. 

22. Kondhs — Desaya Kondhs, Dongria Kondhs, 

Kuttiya Kondhs, Tikiria Kondhs and 
Yenity Kondhs, 

23. Kota. 

24. Kotia — Bartika Bentho Oriya, Dhulia or 

Dulia, Holva Paiko, Putiya, Sanrona and 
Sidho Paiko. 

25. Koya or Goud, with its sub-sects. — Raja or 

Rariha Koyas, Lingadhari Koyas (ordinary) 
and Kottu Koyas. 

26. Kudiya. 

27. Kurumans, 

28. Manna Dhora. 

29. Maune. 

30. Mukha Dhora — Nooka Dhora. 

31. Muria. 

32. Paigarapu. 

33. Palasi, I 

34. Faniyan, 

35. Porjas — Bodo konda, Daruva, Didua, Jodia, 

Mundili, Pengu, Pydi and Saliya. 

36. Reddi Dhoras, 

37. Savaras — Kapu Savaras, Khutto Savaras and 

Maliya Savaras. 

38. Sholaga. 

39. Toda. 

40. Inhabitants of the Laccadive Minicoy and 

Amindivi Islands who, and both of whose 
parents, were born in these Islands. 

Rajasthan 

Throughout the Scheduled Areas of the State:— 
Bhil. 

Saurashtra 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Adodia. 

2. Daffer. 

3. Ghantla. 

4. Miyana. 

5. Sindhi. 

6. Wedva Waghri. 


Travancore-Cochln 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Hill Pulaya. 

2. Kadar. 

3. Kanikaran. 

4. Koehu Velan, 

5. Malai Arayan. 

6. Malai Pandaram. 

7. Malai Vedan, 

8. Malayan. 

9. Malayarayar. 

10. Mannan. 

11. Muthuvan. 

12. Pallcyan. 

13. Palliyar. 

14. Ulladan (Hill dwellers). 

15. Uraly. 

16. Vishavan. 

Ajmer 

Throughout the State: — 

Bhil. 

Bhopal 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Bhil. 

2. Gond. 

3. Keer. 

4. Karku. 

5. Mogia. 

6. Pardhi. 

7. Saharia, Sosia, or Sor. 

COOT* 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Korama. 

2. Kudiya. 

3. Kuruba, 

4. Maratha. 

5. Meda. 

6. Yerava. 

Himachal Pradesh 

In Lahaul in Chamba district and in Spiti in Mahasu 
district:— 

Tibetan* 

Kutch 

Throughout the State: — - 

1. Bhils. 

2. Dhodia. 

3. Koli. 

4. Paradhi. 

5. Vaghri. 

Manipur 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Any Kuki Tribe. 

2. Any Lushai Tribe. 

3. Any Naga Tribe. 

Tripura 

Throughout the State' — 

1. Lushai. 

2. Mag. 

3. Kuki, 

4. Chakma. 

5. Garoo. 

6. Chaimal. 

7. Halam. 

8. Khasia. 

9. Bhutla. 

10. Munda including Kaur. 

11. Orang. 

12. Lepcha. 

13. Santal, 

14. Bhil. 

15. Tripura. 

16. Jamatia. 

17. Noatia. 

18. Riang. 

’ Vlndhya Pradesh 

Throughout the State: — 

1. Agariya. 

2. Baiga, 

3 Bhumiya. 

4. Gond. 

5. Kamar. 

6. Khairwar. 

7. Majhi. 

8. Mawasi- 



72 


[Part I — Sec, 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


9. Panika. 

10, Fao, 

11, Bhil* 

12, Bedia. 

13, Blar (Biyar). 

14, Sonr. 

R. C. DUTT, Jt, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi , the 3rd February 1955 
Charitable Endowments 

In the matter of Vizianagaram Scholarships Endow- 
ment Trust , Allahabad 

No* F.10-2/51.A.2. — Consequent on the reduction in 
the rate of interest on the securities of the said En- 
dowment as stated in application and with the con- 
currence of the persons making the said application 
and in exercise of the power conferred by sub-section 

(2) of section 6 of the Charitable Endowments Act, 
1890 (VI of 1890). the Central Government hereby 
directs that the following further modifications shall 
be made in the Scheme of the Trust published with 
the notification No. 158-G/XV~134, dated the 23rd 
February, 1924, namely: — 

In the said scheme — 

(1) in paragraph (4) for the existing values and 
rates the following shall be substituted; 

One at Rs. 5 per mensem. 

One at Rs, 4 per mensem. 

Two at Rs. 3 per mensem, 

(2) in paragraph (5) for the existing values and 
rates the following shall be substituted: 

One at Rs. 5 per mensem. 

Two at Rs, 4 per mensem. 

Two at Rs. 3 per mensem. 

(3) in line 1 of paragraph (6) for figures and words 

“Rs. 8 per mensem” the figures and words 
“Rs, 7/8/- per mensem” shall be substituted 
the figures and words. 

(4) in line 1 of paragraph (7) for "Rs. 8 per men- 

sem” the figures and words “Rs. 7/8/- per 
mensem” shall be substituted the figures and 
words. 

(5) In line 1 of paragraph (8) for “Rs. 10 per men- 

sem each, tenable for one year” the figures 
and words “Rs. 7/8/- per mensem for 10 
months” shall be substituted. 

(0) In line 1 of paragraph (9) the figures and words 
for 

“Rs. 10/8/- per mensem” the words and figures 
“Rs. 9 per mensem” shall be substituted. 

T, S, KRISHNAMURTI, Under Secy. 


MINISTRY OF RAILWAYS 
(Railway Board) 

ORDER 

New Delhi , the 5th February 1955 

No. 2327 -TC. — In pursuance of Section 32 of the 
Indian Railways Act 1890 (IX of 1890), the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amend- 
ment shall be made in the Order of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Railways (Railway Board) 
No, 2327-TC, dated the 1st June, 1963, namely: — 

In the said order after the figure and words “3 
pies per maund”, the words “subject to a 
minimum charge of two annas per consign- 
ment” shall be inserted. 

V. SRIRAMAN, 
Assistant Director, Traffic. 


MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND 
SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH 

New Delhi, the 3rd February 1955 

No. 22(7)/54-SRH. — In this Ministry’s Notification 
of even number, dated the 10th January 1955 item 
No. 5 in para. 1 may be read as follows:— 

Prof. N, R, Sen, Ghosh Professor and Head of the 
Department of Applied Mathematics, Uni- 
versity College of Science and Technology 
Calcutta. 

D. D. GUPTA, Under Secy, 


MINISTRY OF IRRIGATION AND POWER 

RESOLUTION 

New Delhi, the 12th February 1955 

No. DW.14 (9) /54- ( 1 ) . — Two River Commissions 
namely, the Ganga River Commission (Floods) and 
the Brahmaputra River Commission (Floods) have 
already been set up to deal with flood control problems 
in the Ganga and the Brahmaputra basins vide this 
Ministry’s Resolution No. DW.14(9)/54, dated the 30th 
September, 1954. The States of Jammu and Kashmir, 
PEPSU and Punjab are also affected by frequent 
floods and the State Governments have constituted 
State Flood Control Boards, 

The Central Flood Control Board, in their Second 
meeting held on the 14th December, 1954, decided to 
set up another River Commission to assist the Board 
in all technical matters including preparation of 
integrated plans for flood control for the North-West 
region and examination of specific schemes to be 
carried out in the States. The Government of India 
have accordingly set up the North-West Rivers Com- 
mission (Floods). 

2. Constitution of the River Commission. — The North- 
West Rivers Commission (Floods) will consist of the 
following: — 

Chairman 

(i) Chairman, Central Water and Power Com- 
mission. 

Members 

til) Chief Engineer(s) In charge of Flood Control, 
Jammu and Kashmir. 

tiii) Chief Engineer (s) in charge of Flood Control, 
Punjab. 

(iv) Chief Engineer(s) in charge of Flood Control, 
PEPSU. 

(v) Inspector-General of Forests or his representa- 
tive. 

(vi) Surveyor-General of India or his representa- 
tive. 

(vii) Director, Geological Survey of India, or his 
representative. 

(viii) Director-General of Observatories, Meteorolo- 
gical Department, or his representative. 

(ix) Chief Conservator of Forests, Himachal 
Pradesh. 

(x) Chairman, Railway Board, or his represents-^ 
tive. 

(xi) Chief Engineer (Flood Control) in charge of 
Planning, Central Water and Power Com- 
mission. 

fxii) Director, Hydraulic Research Station, Amritsar, 
Punjab. 

Member-Secretary 

(xiii) Chief Engineer (Flood Control) in charge of 
Field Investigations, Central Water and Power 
Commission. 

3. The Commission may co-opt specialists, Indian 
or foreign, and also representatives of the Roads 
organisation, as and when necessary. 

4. Functions. — The functions of the Commission will 
be to assist the Central Flood Control Board in all 
technical matters connected with Flood Control 
measures with particular reference to the following: — 

(a) Preparation of a comprehensive programme 
, for surveys and collection of data for formula- 
tion of flood control schemes. 

(b) Preparation of integrated plans for the river 
basins, after due consideration of the pro- 
posals of the State Governments, for flood 
control works. 

(c) Review of the progress of work regarding the 
collection of data, preparation of schemes and 
their implementation. 

(d) Advising the State Governments, whenever 
necessary, on technical problems pertaining to 

flood control. 

• 

(e) Recommendation of measures to cope with 
emergent situations. 

5. The Commission will frame its Rules of Business. 

T. SIVASANKAR, Secy, 



Fart I— Sec. 1] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA, FEBRUARY 12, 1955 


73 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 2nd February 1955 

No* 1/51/54-F. — In pursuance of the Resolution of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Information 
and Broadcasting No. 1/51/54-F, dated the 2nd 
February, 1955, the Central Government hereby re- 
constitutes the Film Advisory Board, Bombay with 
effect from the ltith February 1955 and appoints the 
following as its members with effect from the same 
date: — 

1. Chairman, Central Board of Film Censors — Ex- 

offlcio Chairman 

2. Regional Officer, Central Board of Film Censors, 

Bombay — Ex-officio Member. 

3. Srimati Leela Jog, Member, Bombay Advisory 

Panel, Central Board of Film Censors. 

4. Dr. D, G. Vyas. 

5. Su D. N. Marshall. 

0. Sri D. P. Wagle. 

7. Kumuri S, Panandikar. 

8. Sri V. Shautaram. 

9. Sri Habib Hoosain, 

D. KRISHNA AYYAR, Under Secy. 


RESOLUTION 

New Delhi , the 2nd February 1955 

No. 1/51/54-F. — Whereas the Film Advisory Board 
has been functioning for recommending documentaries 
and newsreels produced by the Films Division and by 
private producers for grant of approval certificates 
with reference to the relevant condition in the cinema 
licences and whereas a direction has now been issued 
b> the Central Government under sub-section (4) of 
section 12 of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII 
ui 1952), and by the various State Governments under 
th r, ir own Acts, it hiu, been decided that the Film 
Advisory Board should be entrusted with the responsi- 
bility uf approving films which may be regarded as 
scientific films, films intended for educational purposes, 
films dealing with news and current events or docu- 
mentary films with reference to these directions. 

2. The rules governing the working of the Film 
Advisory Board will be as follows: — ■ 

( 1 ) The Board shall consist of not less than seven 
members, to be appointed by the Central Government, 
as follows: — 

(a) Chairman of the Central Board of Film 
Censors — Ex-officio Chairman. 

(b) Regional Officer of the Central Board of Film 
Censors, Bombay- — Ex-officio Member. 

(c) A member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Bombay. 

(d) Not less than four other members including 

an educationist and two persons with 

knowledge of films and film making. 

Explanation.— “Regional Officer” includes “Additional 
Regional Officer” and “Assistant Regional Officer”. 


(2) Members other than the ex-officio members and 
the member of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors, Bombay, shall be appointed 
for a period of two years and will be eligible for re- 
appointment, The member of the Advisory Panel 
shall be appointed as a member of the Board for the 
full term of his membership of the Panel. 

(3) The Government of India may for a cause suffi- 
cient in its opinion, remove any member of the Board 
before the expiration of the period of his office. 

(4) The non-official members of the Board will work 
in an honorary capacity. They may be paid such com- 
pensatory allowance as the Central Government may 
from time to time determine. 

(5) The Regional Officer of the Central Board of 
Film Censors at Bombay will be the Secretary of the 
Board. 

(6) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be called 
in question on the ground merely of the existence of 
any vacancy in or defect in the constitution of the 
Board. 

(7) Unless otherwise directed by the Government 
of India, the Headquarters of the Board shall be at 
Bombay. 

(8) Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by 
the Chairman, and, in his absence the members present 
may elect one among themselves to preside. 

(9) The quorum of the Board shall be three. 

(10) The decision of the Board shall be that of the 
majority of the members attending the meeting and 
in the event of an equality of votes, the presiding officer 
shall have a second or casting vote. The decision of 
the Board shall be final. If any applicant wants to 
mala* any representation m regard to the film sub- 
mitted by him, however, the Board shall give him an 
opportunity to do so ana it shall be open to the Board 
1 o revise their decision in the light of any such 
representation. 

(11) The Board shall ordinarily meet every week 
for the purpose of approving films as scientific films, 
films intended for educational purposes, films dealing 
with news and current events or documentary films 
m terms of the directions issued by the Government 
of India under sub-section (4) of section 12 of the 
Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) and any 
similar directions issued by the State Governments. ‘ 

(12) Any person, firm, organisation or Government 
desirous of having any of his or its films approved by 
the Board shall send an application in writing to the 
Secretary of the Board stating the title of the film and 
the source from which it can be obtained by the 
exhibitors and such other particulars as may be 
xequired by the Board. 

(13) The Board will communicate the titles and 
subjects of the films approved by them, together with 
the information regarding the sources from which they 
can be obtained, to the Central Government. The 
titles of the films certified to be scientific films, films 
intended for educational purposes, films dealing with 
news and current events or documentary films by the 
Central Government, with the approval of the Film 
Advisory Board, will be notified in the Gazette of 
India together with the address from which they can 
be obtained. 

F. M. LAD, Secy. 




