REGISTERED No. P . 226.. 


The Gazette 


of 


India 


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 
No. 37 ] NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


NOTICE 
The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were publishod upto the 3rd 
September 1955 : 


Igaue No. and data 
No. 


Issued by 


Subject 


258 


S . R . O . 1862, dated 

27th August , 1955 . 


the 


Ministry of Food and 

Agriculture, 


The Sugar (Control) Order , 
1955 . 


Ditto . 


The Sugarcane (Control ) 

Order , 1955 . 
Election Petition No. 23 of 
1954 . 


259 


S . R . O . 1863 , dated the 

27th August, 1955 . 
S . R . O . 1864 dated the 

20th August , 1955. 
S . R . O . 1865, dated the 

30th August , 1955 . 


Commission , 


| 


Election 

India . 


260 


Ministry of 

Affairs , 


External 


Proclamation regarding the 
BOVercign rights over the 
Aca - bed and sub - soil of the 
continental Shelf . 


261 


S . R . O . 1866 , dared the 

Ist September , 1955. 


Ministry of Home Affairs 


262 | S. R . O , 1867, dated the 

19 Septembor , 1955 . 


Ministry of Law 


The All - India Services ( Dis 
cipline and Appcal) Rulos , 
1955 . 
The Central Government 
dcclares the Colony of 
Singapore to be a rocipro 
cating territory . 


S . R . O . 1868, dated the 
Iat Septo mber , 1955 . 


Ministry of Commerce 

and Industry . 


Fixation of the price of tea 

for the purpose of Item 
s in the Second Schodu lc 
to the Indian Tariff Act, 
1934 . 


263 


$ . R . O . 1903, dated 

Ist September , 1955 . 


the 


Ditto . 


Amandment made in the 20 

lification No. S . R . O . 1261, 
dated the 17th April 
1954 . 


964 


Election 
1983 . 


Petition No. 5 of 


S. R . O . 1904, dated the 

24th August , 1955 . 
$ . R . O . 1905, dated the 

2nd September 1955. 


Election Commission , 

Indir . 
Ministry of Law 


265 


Fixation of the hours during 

which the Poll shall be 
taken in the Jaipur Par - 
llamentary constituency 
in the State of Rajasthan . 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should bo 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of these 
Gazettes , 

( 1745 ) 


1746 


THE 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[PARTI H - SEC 3 , 


PART 11 - Section 3 
Statutory Rules and Orders issued by the Ministries of the Government 

of India ( other than the Ministry of Defence ) and Central Authorities 
(other than the Chief Commissioners ) . 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New beini, the 31st August 1955 
S . R . O , 1910 . It is hereby notified for general information that the disquaplica 
tions under clause ( c ) of section 7 and section 143 of the Representation of the 
People Act, 1951 (XLIII of 1951 ) , incurred by the person whose name and address 
are given below , as notified under notification No. MP- P / 52 (21) , dated the 13th 
May , 1952, have been removed by the Election Commission in exercise of the 
powers conferred on it by the said clause and section 144 of the said Act . 
respectively : 
Shri Raghunath Prasad Kaluram , Matapura Ward No. 4 . , Sohagpur , District 
Hoshangabad , Madhya Pradeyh , 

[NO, MP- P / 52 (55). J } 

By order , 
P . S . SUBRAMANIAN , Secy . 

- - - 
MINISTRY OF LAW 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1955 . 
S . R . O . 1911.- . In exercise of the powers conferred by rule 1 of Order XXVII 
in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedúré, 1908 ( V of 1908 ) , the 
Central Government hereby makes the following further amendment in the 
notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Law , No , S . R O . 1651 
dated the 1st September, 1953, relating to the appointment of officers to sign . 
or verify plaints and written statements in suits in any court of civil jurisdi 
tion by or against the Central Government, namely : 
In the Schedule to the said notification , under Part XVIII which relates 

to the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply , under the heading 
" Stationery and Printing " , after the entry " Deputy Controller , 
Stationery, Calcutta " , the entry " Manager , Government of India 
Forms Store , Calcutta " shall be inserted . 

[No. F . 75 - 1/58- L ) , 
R . S . GAE, Dy . Secy 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1955 
S .R . O . 1912 . — Shri Din Dayal, a permanent officer of Grade II of the Central 
Secretariat Service, officiating in Grade I of that service, is appointed to om 
ciate as Under Secretary in the Election Commission with effect from the after 
noon of the 12th August, 1955 and until further orders. 

[ No . F .17 ( 10 ) / 55 - Adm .II. ) 

K , Y . BHANDARKAR , Secy . 
— - - - - 

- - - - - - - 
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi- 2 , the 31st August 1955 
S .R . O . 1913 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Entry 3 (b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
specifies Barakumar Pratap Ganga Deb a member of the family of the Ruler of 
Bamra State for the purposes of that entry and directs that the exemption shall 
be valid in respect of one gun and two rifles , 

[No. F .8 /8 / 55- Police IV .} 
J. N . DHAMIJA , Dy. Secy . 


PART II — Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1747 


- - 


: - 


- - 


= 


New Delhi- 2 , the 5th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1914 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( 1 ) of article 239 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that subject to his control, the 
Lieutenant-Governor of each of the States of Himachal Pradesh and Vindhya 
Pradesh and the Chief Commissioner of each or the States of Ajmer , Bhopal, 
Coorg , Delhi, Kutch and Tripura , shall in relation to the State concerned , exer 
cise the powers and discharge the functions of a State Government under the 
provisions of section 133 of the Code of Civil Procedure , 1908 ( V of 1908 ) . 

(No. 3 ( 8 ) / J . II / 55. ] 
M . P . RODRIGUES, Under Secy , 


New Delhi-2, the 1st September 1955 

- 

WATT 
S . R . O . 1915 . — The following Order made by the President is published for 
eneral information : 

ORDER 
In pursuance of Clause ( 3 ) of Article 77 of the Constitution of India , the 
President is pleased to amend the Order made by hin under the said provision on 
the 28th May , 1955 , as follows , namely : - - 
1 . In paragraph 2 of the said Order , under the heading " Ministry of 

Commerce and Industry " , add the following: 
“ ( iii) The Central Silk Board " . 
2 . To the said Order the following paragraph shall be added , namely : 
" 3 . The Central Silk Board is allotted to the Ministry of- Production " . 

( Sd.) RAJENDRA PRASAD , 

President 
The 27th Juli 1955 . 


| No. 3 / 5 / 55 -Public ( I ) . ] 

A . V . PAI, Secy . 


New Delhi- 2, the 5th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1916 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1. Yuvraj Bhupendra Narayan Singh Deo 
2 . Kumar Nripendra Narayan Singh Deo 
3. Kumar Mahendra Pratap Singh Deo 
4 . Kumar Ramchandra Singh Deo 

5 . Lal Harisharan Singh Deo 
members of the family of the Ruler of Korea , for the purposes of that entry . 

(No. 8 / 1 / 55 - P ( IV ) . ] 


S . R . O . 1917 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1. Kumar Surendra Singh 

2. Kumar Bhanu Pratap Singh 
members of the family of the Ruler of Raigarh , for the purposes of that entry . 

[ No . 8 /1 /55- P ( IV ).] 


. 8 . 8 . , 1918 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 

exed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 1951, the Central Government 
an . 


- - 


- - 


1748 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBR 10, 1955 DART DIREC .. 3 

= - 21 . - - - - I II 
is pleased to specify 

1. Rajkumar Thalendra Kishore Deg 

2 . Kumar Radha Sarveshwar Kishore Das 
members of the family of the Ruler of Chhuikhadia for the puzposes of that 
entry . 

[No . 3 / 1 / 55 - P (IV ) . ) 
S .R . O . 1919 . - In exercise of the powors conferred by entry 3 ( b ) ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules , 181, the Central Gowrnment 
is pleased to specify 

1. Yuvraj Vishwaraj Singh 
2. Rajkumar Yeshwantraj Singh 

3. Kumar Padmaraj Singh 
members of the family of the Ruler of Kawardia for the purposes of that 
entry. 

[No. / 1V/ 55 -P ( IV ) . 
S . R . O . 1920 - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Tabi . 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1. Shrimati Rani Padmawati Devi 

2 . Rajkumar Bikram Bahadur Singh . 
members of the family of the Ruler of Khairagart for the purposes of that 
entry . 

[ No. 8 / 1 / 55 - P (IV ) .) 
S . R . O , 1921. - - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( 6 ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1. Yuvraj Ambikeshwar Sharan Singh Deo 

2 . Kumar Madneshwar Sharan Singh Deo , I. A . S ., 
members of the family of the Ruler of Sarguja for the purposes of that entry . 

[ No. 8 / 1 / 55 - PXIV ) . ] 
S .R . O . 1922 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify Maharajkumar Vijayachandra Bhanj Deo . member of the 
family of the Ruler of Baster , for the purposes of that entny . 

NO . 8 / 1 / 55 -P ( IV ) .] 
S . R . O . 1923 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by entry 3 ( b ) of the Table 
annexed to Schedule I to the Indian Arms Rules, 1951, the Central Government 
is pleased to specify 

1 . Shri Yubraj Devi Shah 
2 . Kumar Bharat Shah 

3 . Kumar Nanhe Shah 
members of the family of the Ruler of Makrai for the purposes of that entry . 

[No. 8 / 1 /55 - P ( IV ) .) 
J. N . DHAMIJA , Dy. Sen 


a 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1955 
S . R .O . 1924. - In exercise of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 4 of the Port Hai 
Committees Act, 1932 (XX of 1932) , the Central Government is pleased to nomi. 
nate Shrl John Lobo , Deputy Commissioner of Police , Bombay as a member of the 
Port Haj Committee , Bombay , vide Shri D , L . Kulkarni, transferred . 

[No. F .31 (2 )-AWT / 55 (PHC - Sec, 4 (2 )-2. ] 

MOHD . YUNUS, Dy , Secy . (W ) 


PART 11 - c . ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1955 


1740 


MINISTXY OF FINANCE 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 
S . R . O . 1925 - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to article 309 
of the Constitution , the President hereby directs that the following further amend 
mont shall be made in the Civil Service Begulations, namely : - - 

In the said Regulations for Article 288 - B the following shall be substituted , 
namely : 
" Maternity leave may be combind with leave of any other kind , but any 

leave applied for in continuation of the former may be granted only 
if the request be supported by a medical certificate ." 

(No. F .7 ( 47) - Est.IV /55.] 
i K , S . GANAPAT, Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 
S . R . O . 1926 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Companies Act, 1949 ( X of 1949 ), the Central Government, on the recommendation 
of the Reserve Bank of India . hereby declares that the provisions of sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 19 of the said Act shall not apply to the Indo- Commercial 
Dank Ltd till the 31st July , 1956 , in 80 far as they relate to its holdings in the 
Polar Mills Ltd . 

[No, F .4 ( 124 )- F .1 / 55 .] 
J. L . KUNDU , Dy. Secy . 


(Department of Economic Afairs ) 


New Delhi, the 5th September 1955 
KPORT OF THE CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE RESERVE BANK 

OF INDIA 

For the year July 1, 1954 - June 30 , 1955 
S . R . O . 1927 . - In accordance with Section 53 ( 2 ) of the Reserve Bank of India 
Act , 1934 , the Central Board of Directors submits to the Government of India 
thuis Annual Report on the working of the Bank and the accounts of the Bank 
for the twenty - first accounting period beginning on July 1 , 1954 and ending on 
June 30 , 1955 . 

ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS 
The maintenance of agricultural production near the all - time record achieved 
in the previous year and the further substantial growth in industrial output 
were perhaps the most encouraging features of the Indian economy during 1954- 55 . 
They facilitated the sharp increase in the tempo of developmental expenditure 
In the public sector as well as the progressive relaxation of controls over a wide 
ield . The supply position was, on the whole , comfortable . 

Trends in Production - In Agriculture. But for the extensive damage by floods 
in certain parts of Assam , Bihar and West Bengal and droughts in some States , 
agricultural output might have bettered the performance in 1953 -54 when the 
production of foodgrains at 86 million tons exceeded the target for the final year 
of the Plan by nearly 4 million tons. Rice production has indeed fallen by 
3 . 4 million tons or 12 per cent. from the previous year s figure, but the production 

some of the other cereals and pulses is likely to go up , so that the total for 

Agrains may not be much lower than in 1953-54. Among the cash crops, 
although the increase in jute is a nominal one, the output of sugarcane, oilseeds, 
and cotton is expected to be appreciably above last year s . Hence , total agricul. 
tural output may turn out to be at more or less the same level as in 1953 - 54 , 
It is probable that the greater part of the improvement in agriculture in the 
past two years was due to good monsoons but a part at least was the result of 
various schemes to increase the yield as well as the acreage under cultivation , 
particularly major and minor irrigation works and improved methods of cultiva 
hon . To some extent, therefore , the increase in agricultural production may be 
regarded 08 permanent. Statistics of employment are extremely inadequate , but 
it is reasonable to inter that an associated increase te employment in agriculture 
took place . 


. 


GA 


. 


A . 


10 , 


vud 


ART 11, 


LC . 3 


Trends in Production and in Industry . The progress of production in recent 
years was even more satisfactory in the industrial sphere . There has been an 
uninterrupted increase in annual industrial production sinre 1950 and the aggre 
gate rise over the first four years of the Plan was about 10 per cent.; for the 
first nine months of the year under review , the output was 13 per cent. higher 
than in the corresponding period of the previous year . Several factors contri 
buted to the further rise in industrial production during the year, Supplies of 
raw materials were available in larger measure and existing plant capacity was , 
more fully utilised or expanded . In certain important lines , Hike cotton and jute 
textiles, the stimulus to output was provided by a better export offtake. In some 
industries, new production units were set up , and over the whole range of indus 
try , labour -management relations showed a distinct improvement. Among basic 
Industries , steel, cement and non -ferrous metals , and , among other industries , 
sugar, jute manufactures and cotton textiles showed noticeable gains in produc 
tion , Stecl output went up by 20 per cent. to 1 : 2 million tons between 1953 and 
1954 and that of cement by 16 per cent. to 4 : 4 million tons. Mill production of 
cotton cloth at nearly 5 , 000 million yards exceeded the Plan target by about 300 
million yards. Among the newer inoustries also , the progres was encouraging . 
although considerable leeway has yet to be made. Despite the improvement in 
production , the situation regarding employment continued to give room for con 
cern . In large - scale industry , the increase in employment was less than in pro 
portion to the increase in production , 

Food Policy . With the sharp improvement in the supplies of foodgrains in 
1953 - 54 , food controls were progressively relaxed in pursuance of the policy 
initiated in mid - 1952, so that by the beginning of the year under review therd 
were only a few restrictions left ; with the continuing high level of food supplies , 
cven these were virtually eliminated . In July 1954 , controls in respect of rice 
were lifted , and in March 1955 restrictions on the inter -zonal movement of wheat 
were abolished . Along with the relaxation of controls , the policy of food Imports 
was revised . Imports of wheat under the International Wheat Agrcement were 
not fully avajled of and further imports of rice, except under previous commit 
ments , were stopped . At the same time, an emergency food reserve was built up 
as a cushion against future contingencies , and at the end of the year it amounted 
to about 17 lakh tons of foodgrains. 


Controls . — Decontrol of commodities other than foodgrains was also carried a 
stage further . The free movement of cotton was restored in July 1954 and distri 
bution control over it was suspended in February 1955 , so that now , in respect 
of cotton , only price controls continue to be retained . However , as a standby 
for emergencies, minimum powers of control over production , distribution and 
prices of essential commodities were retained in the hands of the Central Govern 
ment by an Ordinance promulgated in January 1955 for the continuance of the 
Essential Supplies ( Temporary Power : ) Act , 1946 , which was due to lapse ; the 
Ordinance was later replaced by an Act of Parliament, 

Industrial Policy , During the course of a special debate on economic policy 
in December 1954 , the Lok Sabha reviewed the industrial policy which the 
Government of India had been following for the past six years and considered it 
to be broadly in conformity - allowing for shifts in cmphasis from time to time 
with the principles and objectives laid down in the Statement on Industrial Policy 
of April 1948, which accepted a mixed economy as a suitable basis for industrial 
development and the State regulation of the private sector as a corollary to 
planned development. That Statement continues to outline the industrial poliry 
to be pursued , but in addition the Lok Sabha expressed the view thatGovernment s 
economic policy should aim at a " socialist pattern of society " and that economic 
activity in general and industrial development in particular should be stepped up 
to the maximum possible extent to achieve it . During the year , particularly with 
a view to augmenting employment opportunities special attention was given to 
the development of small - scale industries , and an important step in this direction 
was the establishment of the Small Industries Corporation and the Small -Scale 
Industries Board and the strengthening of the All - India Khadi and Village Indus 
tries Board and the All - India Handicrafts Board . 

Fall in Prices and Measures to Stabilise Prices . The pressure of increased 
supplies, stemming from high output levels , a large volume of imports and the 
relaxation of controls initiated a downward price movement, which was accen 
tuated by dishoarding and resulted in a sharp fall in wholesale commodity prices 
during the year. Except for a short - lived rise between July and September 1954 , 
when the index number (base : year ended August 1939 — 100 ) went up from 381 : 6 
to 384 . 4 , prices showed an uninterrupted decline to 342 in May 1955 when they 


PART II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1757 


registered the lowest level since April 1948. In June, they again tended to rise , 
Nevertheless , the fall in prices during the year as a whole ( 10 per cent. ) was 
larger than the decline (6 per cent. ) of the preceding year and it was sharpest in 
the group consisting of foud articles ( 18 per cent. ) . The index of raw materials 
went down by 11 per cent, and that of semi-manufactures by 7 per cent. In 
contrast, the group consisting of manufactures rernained more or less steady , 
the decline being only 2 - 0 per cent. 

The fall in prices is largely a corrective to the earlier high levels and provides 
a base for more rapid economic development. In a few commodities, however , 
the fall was steep and remedial action was indicated , both with a view to afford 
ing some relief to agriculturists, and , insofar as the price fall was likely to be 
temporary . preventing distortion in production . 

With a view to tabilising prices at reasonable levels , Government initiated 
several measures to expand cxports and to l urtail imports , and introduced limited 
price support schemes for wheat, certain coarse grains and gram . Export duties 
were reduced on some commodities like cotton , oils, oilsсeds and black pepper , 
and additional export quotas were granted for several commodities such as cotton , 
oils and oilsсeds. Further , as mentioned earlier , imports of rice and wheat , except 
under previous commitments , were discontinued . In July 1954 , the Union Govern 
ment announced their decision to purchase wheat in the market if the price 
shoull fall below Rs. 10 per maund ; purchasing agents were to be appointed by 
State Governments in about 200 selected inandis , and the Union Government also 
undertook to effect direct purchases in six selected markets . Later , in December 
1954 , price support was extended to certain coarse grains also and this was in 
operatiuni in sever States by the end of the ycar under review , 

Budget Deficits .-- A prominent feature of economic development during 1954 - 55 
was the ucceleration of expenditure in the public sector to make up for the slow 
progress of the earlier ycars and this was rellected in a widening of budgetary 
deficits . Central and State Governments are expected , on the basis of revised 
estimates , to have incurred an overall deficit of about Rs. 235 crores in 1954 - 55 , 
as against a much smaller deficit ct about Rs. 65 crores in the preceding year . 
Allowing for the actual increase in the floating debt of the Central Government 
and for certain other adjustments , however, the combined overall deficit of the 
C entral and State Governments is likely to be lower at about Rs. 100 crores. The 
combined estimated deficit for 1955 - 56 is plured at a much higher level ( Ry, 395 
crores ) since development outlays in the final year of the Plan have been further 
stepped up in an effort to reduce the margin between targets and actual per 
formance, 

A point of interest emerges from a comparison of the trends in disbursements 
and current revenues during the past five years. While the combined disburse 
ments of Central and State Governments on both revenue and capital accounts 
have risen stecply by nearly Rs. 600 crores between 1951 -52 and 1955 - 56 (budget 
estimates ) to a total of well over Rs. 1, 600 crores , the combined current revenues 
during the same period have crept up only by Rs. 25 crores to about Rs. 900 
crores . The estimated current revenues for 1954 - 55 formed about 8 per cent. of 
the estimated level of national income, a proportion which has not varicd signi 
ficantly since the prewar period . 


Both facts indicate the urgent necessity to enlarge budgetary resources, 
Increases in taxation have been considered in great detail by the Taxation Enquiry 
Cominission , the publication of whose Report was one of the outstanding events 
of the year under revicw . The Commission has recommended a widening and 
a deepening of the tax structure both at the Centre and in the States , specifically 
for the purpose of financing development outlay and reducing large inequalities 
of income, modified where necessary to provide incentive tax reliefs so as to 
stimulate capital formation . For the year 1955 -56 , as a first step in the direction 
of implementing the Commission s recommendations, changes in income and com 
modity taxation , estimated to yield about Rs. 13 crores, were introduced by the 
Union Government. When the Commission s recommendations are implemented , 
a substantial incrcase in the tax resources of the Central and State Governments 
may be expected . 


Money Supply. — The enlarged budgetary deficit of the Central Government 
was the principal factor tending to expand money supply during 1954 - 55 by 
Rs, 183 crores (Rs. 137 crores in currency with the public and Rs. 46 crores in 
deposit money ) which was over four times the increase ( Rs. 44 crores ) in the 
previous year. The extension of bank credit ( Rs. 64 crores) though it played a 


1752 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1966 


[PART II — Sec. 3 


subordinate role , was substantial. The influence of the balance of payments posi 
tion on the expansion in money supply , as reflected in the capital account, was 
also not ingnificant (Rs. 40 _ crores ) . The net result of the open market opera 
tions ( Rs. 40 crorcs ) of the Reserve Bank , however, tended to curtail monetary 
circulation to some extent. The increase in money supply , though large in absolute 
terms, has not led to a re - emergence of inflation as it was matched by a higher 
level of production . The higher level of business activity during the year also 
affected the seasonal pattern ; the contraction in money supply in the slack season 
of 1954 was considerably smaller (Rs. 84 crores ) than in the slack season of the 
previous year (Rs. 123 crores ) , while the busy season expansion was much larger 
(Rs. 232 crores ) than in the previous busy season (Rs. 171 crores ) . 


Bank Credit - The banking system was able to meet the strain placed on it 
during the year from its own resources to a considerable extent. for the Central 
Government s budgetary deficit was accompanied by it rise in net deposit liabili. 
lies of scheduled banks to the tune of Rs. 113 crores - of which demand liabilities 
accounted for Rs. 53 crores-- which would seem to mark a new phase of deposit 
expansion after the declining trend in deposits of the post - Partition period . For 
relieving seasonal pressure, the banks expanded credit by Rs, 107 crores between 
mid -October 1954 and early May 1955, not only by utilising the additions to their 
resources but also by lowering their cash ratio ( from 11 . 7 per cent. in mid 
November 1954 to 8 . 3 per cent. at the end of April 1955 ) and resorting to 
accommodation from the Reserve Bank to the extent of Rs. 207 crores (Cross ) 
of which Rs. 98 crores were under the Bill Market Scheme ( as agalnst Rs. 80 crores 
in the previous year ). The substantial volume of these advances in evidence not 
only of the increasing readiness of the commercial banks to approach the Reserve 
Bank for assistance but also of the continuing utility of the Bill Market Scheme 
in catering to the seasonal requirements of banks. The larger accommodation 
sought from the Reserve Bank during the year is to some extent attributable to 
the cessation of short -term capital inflow from abroad , and even some capital 
outflow , particularly from the time (November 1954 ) a higher Bank rate in the 
V . K , was expected by the London market. It appears that the tacillties offered 
by the Bill Market Scheme have provided an alternative source of funds for 
seasonal requirements , which has tended to import greater elasticity as well as to 
lend wider autonomy to the Indian money market . 

Money rates during the year generally conformed to the usual seasonal pattern . 
The decline in the slack season was gradual, reflecting its mildness . In the busy 
season the rates hardened more quickly and stayed longer at the higher levels 
even after the season (as reflected in the trends in note circulation and bank 
credit ) had ended . The auction sale of Central Government Treasury hill. , which 
was discontinued in April 1954 on the announcement of the Central Government 
Joan was resumed in November that year , the rate on these bills rose from 2 . 48 
per cent, in November to 2 . 57 per cent. in May . 

The Capital Market . — There were indications during the year of a better fow 
of savings , and the response to public as well as private issues reflected a distinct 
Improvement in the tone and strength of the capital market. Governmental market 
borrowings were on a notably larger scale . Total subscriptions to the 31 per cent. 
National Plan Loan 1964 which was floated on April 19, 1954, to meet the com 
bined requirements of the Centre and State Governments amounted to Rs. 158 
crores . The only State Issue during the year was by Saurashtra amounting to 
Rs. 2 . 5 crores . Net market borrowings of the Centre and States , that is, after 
allowing for conversions and repayments , amounted to Rs. 113 crores in 1954 - 55 
As against a net outgo of Rs. 2 crores in 1953-54. Small savings also showed a 
substantial rise to Rs. 52 crores, which compared very favourably with Rs . 38 
Crores in the preceding year. Soon after the year ended , the National Plan Bonds 
(Second Series ) 1965 bearing Interest at 31 per cent. were issued on July 1 , 1955 
at Rs. 98 - 8 per cent. for a sum of Rs. 100 crores . The response from the market 
was again good and the loan closed a day earlier on July 4 , 1955 , the subscriptions 
having reached a total of nearly Rs. 104 crores . Private issues on the market also 
showed improvement. , During the year, the total of seven issues of not less than 
Rs. 1 crore cach , for which data are available , was Rs. 16 crores . 

The gilt - edged market revealed a generally firm sentiment; the Reserve Bank 
of India index number of Government of India socurities (base : 1949 - 50 = 100 ) 
rose from 90 : 2 in June 1954 to 40 : 7 in June 1955. Over the year, average prices 
of most of the dated loans showed rises ranging upto Rs. 1 - 10 - 0 but those of both 
the non - terminable loans tell. Since March 1955 there has been sustained 
demand for most of the dated loans from institutional investors while floating 
stocks have beer, scarce. 


PART IL - Secl 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1938 


1753 


The equities market ruled firm during the first quarter of the year . turned 
somewhat easy in the second quarter but was more or less steady thereafter . The 
uptrend in equities which had commenced in October 1953 continued until Septem 
ber 1954, when prices almost touched the post - Korean peak levels of May 1951 ; 
the Reserve Bank of India index number for variable dividend industrial securities 
went up from 108 - 9 in June 1954 to 1209 in September . There was a gradual 
decline from this peak to 119 . 7 in the next three months and for the rest of the 
year the index moved within a narrow range closing at 1131 in June 1955 . 
The general strength of the market during the year was in a large measure due to 
xood company reports besides the likelihood of larger deficit financing and of 
greater emphasis on industrialisation , as evidenced by the enlarged budget deficit 
for 1955 - 56 and the announcement by Government of a Ri, 10 crore loan to the 
Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd . for financing its expansion programme. 

Balance of Payments. The impact on the balance of payments posiſion of the 
rising momentum of development expenditure and the expansion in industrial 
output was rettected in the virtual disappearance of the substantial surplus shown 

current account during the previous year . On the basis of preliminary Agures 
for the first three quarters , and estimates for the last quarter of the year under : 
review , the current account is expected to be in balance, whereas in the previous 

it had shown a surplus of nearly Rs. 59 crores , 
For the first three quarters of the year , there was a surplus on current account: 
amounting to Rs. 26 crores , which was the net result of invisible receipts of 
R . 60 crores offset by a trade deficit of Rs, 34 crores. In this period the balance 
of payments position was considerably assisted by the favourable movement in 
the terms of trade and a larger volume of exports . It is probable that, in the 
last quarter , exports have declined , because of the fall in tea prices and the grow 
ing competition encountered in foreign markets , for instance , in regard to cotton 
textiles. Imports, however , have continued at a high level. 

Although the surplus on external account declined , there was an improvement 
in trade . Both exports and imports were higher than in the previous year , 
especially in terms of volume, but the rise in imports , particularly on Government 
account, was greater . The main causes of the rise in imports were the further 
liberalisation of import policy , the improvement in the foreign supply position , 
the rising tempo of Plan outlays and the buoyancy of industrial production in the 
tountry . The increase in exports resulted from the sustained foreign demand for 
jute goods and tea for the major part of the year as well as from Government s 
export promotion policy in pursuance of which export duties were either reduced 
or abolished on a number of items and Export Promotion Councils were set up 
for cotton textiles , silk and rayon . 


In spite of the current account surplus in the Arst three quarters of the year , 
the country s foreign exchange reserves, comprising the foreign balances of the 
Reserve Bank oť India , of the authorised dealers and of the Government, declined 
by Rs. 14 crores from Rs. 841 crores to Rs. 827 crores during this period . This 
was inainly due to a considerable redurtion in foreign liabilities ; repurchases 
of rupees from the International Monetary Fund amounted to R1, 17 crores while 
the fall in the deposits of foreign banks and official institutions, private capital 
remittances and net imports of Indian currency brought about a further reduction 
of liubilities to the extent of Rs. 26 crores. As against this, there was a reduction 
of Rs. 9 crores in het assets 011 amorti. ation account chiefly because of the part 
repayment of its debt by Burma. As a result of these and other transactions, 
there was a net investment on capital account of Rs. 30 crores , as compared to 
* R * . 65 crores in the corresponding period of 1953 - 54, Taking into account prelimi. 
nary estimates for the last quarter of the year under review , net investment on 
capital account for the year as a whole is expected to be higher , around Rs. 40 
crores. 

Surycy of Fortig Investments . - Data relating to India s international Invest 
ment position were available for the first time in 1950 when the Bank had con . 
ducted a census of India s foreign liabilities and assets as on June 30, 1948. A 
similar survey, but with a restricted coverage, of the country s long - tern foreign 
assets and liabilities as at the end of December 1953, has just been completed . 
According to it, India s foreign long - term Habilities and assets amounted to 
Ats , 1,038 crores and Rs. 1, 175 crores , respectively . Total foreign business invest 
ment in India , in terms of book value. was Rs. 421 crores, of which more than 
30 per cent. was direct Investment. The bulk of the investment (ncarly Rs. 350 
erores ) was largely from the U . K . Private capital from the U : S . A ., predominantly 
in the direct investment category , totalled Rs. 31 croros . The net inflow of foreien 


: 1754 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1968 


[PART 01 - SEC. 3 


private capital between 1948 and 1953 was of the order of Rs. 130 crores . of 
which about 40 per cent. probably represented reinvested profits of branches and 
undistributed profits of subsidiaries of foreign companies . A detailed report of 
the survey will be published shortly . 

Retrospect and Prospect. On the whole , during 1954 -55 the Indian economy 
acquired greater strength , with an impressive rise in production and considerable 
progress in expenditure on public projects , facilitated by appropriate fiscal and 
credit policies. The improvement in the flow of savings and the change in the 
balance of payments are developments of special significance in the context of the 
framing of the second . Five - Year Plan , Two features of the economic situation 
which led to some concern during the year were the relatively steep fall in food 
grains prices which has been stemmed , and the contin lecl qcutene s of unemploy 
ient among urban workers . The institutional set -up for providing Anance 10 
agriculture and to industry was widened and strengthened in a nuinber of ways 
as subsequent sections of this report will indicate . 

The augury for stepping up the tempo of development in the second Plan 
period thus appear to be definitely good . There is , nevertheless , a limit to the 
pace and extent of economic development possible that is set by the real resources 
available . With unutilised real resources capable of being harnessed to national 
development, a measure of deficit financing is not only desirable but may be 
essential for economic stability. Deficit Anancing , however , provides 110 easy ub 
stitute for sustained and substantial efforts to mobilise resources for development 
11 is a double - edged weapon which may be employed , within limits , to help 
develupment, but may , hinder it, if used to excess . It is de irable , therelore, to 
set our targets of development on a realistic assessment of available resources 
while making the fullest efforts to maximise such resources. In such a context, 
the esential function of the banking system would be to provide the necessary 
expansion in bank credit to facilitate the growth in productive activity , while 
preventing, at any stage, a lapse into undue credit expansion and inflation , 

It is important, too , that the pattern of investment ini successive plans, directed 
as it must be to achieving the greatest increase in production and craployment, 
is bused on a recognition of the long -term character of our economic problem , 

including its unemployment aspect , associated with the under -development of the 
· economy. Improvement of the quality and enhancement of the effectiveness of 
Jabour, our most abundant resource, are the key to the long - term course of the 
coun " y s economic developinent. 

The large increases in public expenditure on projects which broaden the sub 
struc ure of economic development, with consequent addition to real income 
widely diflused over the economy, provide the appropriate environment for exten 
sion of the operations of the private sector at the same time as they result in a 
rapid extention of the scope of the public sector. 


EXTENSION OF BANKING FACILITIES 
Rural Credit. The subject or extension of banking facilities to smaller towns 
and the rural areas has received continuous attention by the Reserve Bank for 
some years. The Rural Banking Enquiry Committee, which examined the question 
in 1950 , recommended inter alia , the provision of better remittance and other 
facilities to commercial as well as co - operative banks operating in towns and 
villages and branch expansion by commercial banks generally and the Imperial 
Bank of India in particular to places devoid of banking facilities . Since promo 
tion of banking development was vitally related to the larger issue of rehabilitat 
ing the rural economy, it soon became clear that action on several fronts would 
be simultaneously required , it rapid progress was to be achieved . The Reserve 
Bank , therefore , appointed in 1951 a Committee of Direction to conduct an All 
India Rural Credit Survey which would provide the basis for comprehensive 
proposals relating to rural credit and banking development. The publication of 
the General Report of the Committee of Direction on December 20 , 1954 was a 
significant event for the rural economy in general and in the field of rural credit 
in particular. The Committee s recommendations envisage a revitalisation of the 
co -operative agencies for rural credit side by side with provision of storage and 
warehousing facilities and development of banking facilities in rural areas through 
a State associated sector of commercial and co -operative banking . The recom 
mendations cover an “ integrated scheme of rural credit " based on three funda 
mental principles, namely , (i ) State partnership at different levels , ( ii) co 
ordination of credit and other economic activities such as marketing and proces 
sing and ( ili) administration through properly trained personnel responsive to 
the needs of the rural population , 


PANT II SEC . 3 ] 


GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1935 


i 


Branch Expansion . Despite the efforts made since the Report of, the Rural 
Banking Enquiry Committee and the Informal Conference on Rural Credit ( 1951) , 
the progress of expansion of branches of commercial banks to semi-urban and 
rural areas has been very slow and the position in this behalf continues to be 
unsatisfactory. For several reasons, commercial banks have not found it profit 
able to open branches in smaller towns , individual loans are small and while the 
collateral otſered is not easily marketable , the risk element in agriculture is 
generally greater. The volume of credit for agricultural production granted by 
commercial banks has continued to form a negligible proportion ( 3 to 4 per cent .) - 
of the total credit extended by them . This general situation underlined the need 
for an institution which , while conducting its business on sound lines of com 
mercial banking, would be able to have in mind the larger interests of the country 
along with its obligations to its shareholders . The Committee of Direction of the 
Rural Credit Survey , which examined the question in great detall, recommended 
the setting up of a State Bank of India as one strong integrated State -partnered 
commercial banking institution with an elective machinery of branches spread 
over the whole country for stimulating banking development by providing vastly 
extended remittance facilities for co - operative and other banks and by following 
a policy which would be in ellective consonance with the national policies . 


State Bank of India . - As a first step in implementing this recommendation , the 
Finance Minister announced , simultaneously with the publication of the Report, 
Government s intention to set up the State Bank of India by transferring to it 
the undertaking of the Imperial Bank of India . This was followed up by the in 
trocluction of the necessary legislation in Parliament and on May 8 , 1955 The State 
Bank of India Bill received the President s assent. On July 1, the State Bank of 
India came into being and took over only the offices in India of the Imperial Bank 
of India , since the State Bank of India ( Amendment) Ordinance was passed to 
allow the Imperial Bank of India to continue as a legal cntity until arrangements 
rould be cffected for its foreign branches to be taken over by the State Bank 
of India according to the law in the respective countries. 


The State Bank of India will continue to undertake commercial banking func 
tions on the usual business principles, as the Imperial Bank of India did , provid 
11g credit to industry, trade and commerce. In addition , it is expected to assist 
banking developinent on more vigorous lines . One of the immediate objectives of 
the Bank is to cslablish not less than 400 additional branches within Ave years or 
such extended period as the Central Government may specity, particularly at dis 
trict headquarters and sub -divisional centres. It will also provide considerably 
larger remittance and other facilities to co - operative and other banks and attempt 
to inobilise rural savings. Later, when its organisation has been expanded and 
Warehousing and marketing lucilities have been developed , the State Bank of India 
will be a powerful agency to expand the supply of rural credit. The Reserve Bank 
will continue, at the same time, to assist directly in enlarging the supply of credit 
for agriculture through the apex co -operative banks , as at present. The State 
Bank will function as the agent of the Reserve Bank , as the Imperial Bank did , 
in all places in India where there is no branch of the Banking Department of the 
Reserve Bank and where there is a branch of the State Bank , and is empowered 
to transact any business and perform any function entrusted to it as the agent of 
the Reserve Bank . 


The State Bank of India has an authorised share capital of Rs, 20 crores and 
an issued share capital of Rs. 5 : 625 crores , which has been allotted to the Reserve 
Bank in lleu of the shares of the Imperial Bank transferred to it . The erstwhile 
shareholders of the Imperial Bank of India will receive compensation at the rate 
of Rs. 1 , 765 - 10 - 0 for every fully paid - up share and Rs. 431 - 12 - 4 for every partly 
paid -up share. The compensation will be paid in Central Government securities 
and , at the option of the shareholders in the form of State Bank of India shares 
up to a maximum of 200 shares . This limit is intended , as much as possible , to 
make for a diffusion of the ownership of shares allotted to the public in the State 
Bank of India . The new shares of the State Bank are being issued at Rs. 350 
for every fully paid share of Rs, 100, For shareholders whose names stood regis 
tered in the books of the Imperial Bank of India throughout the period from De 
cember 19 , 1954 to June 30 , 1955 , compensation up to Rs. 10 , 000 will be paid in 
cash , if they apply for it before October 1, 1955 . The State Bank may , with the 
Government s sanction , acquire the business of other banks including certain State 
associated banks and pay compensation in cash or shares of the State Bank , How 
ever , even if the issued capital of the State Bank is increased for this purpose , 
the Reserve Bank will always hold a minimum 55 per cent of the issued capital 
of the State Bank . 


1956 


THE GAZETT . OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1055 


[ Part II - SEC , 3 . 


The management of the Bank vests in a Central Board , of which six directors 
will be elected by the shareholders , other than the Rexerve Bank , whose nades 
are ontored in the various brench registery . Tho Central Government, in consul- - 
tation with the Reserve Bank , will appoint the Chairman and the Vice -Chairman 
and nominate eight other directors to represent regional and economic Interests , 
not less than two of whom shall have special knowledgo of the working of co 
operative institutions and of the rural economy and the others have experience 
in commerce , industry , banking or finance , The Central Government and the 
Reserve Bank will nominate a Director each and the Central Board of the State 
Bank with the approval of the Central Government will appoint not more than 
two Managing Directory , 

The State Bank is required to maintain a special Integration and Development 
Fund to be created out of (1) dividends payable to the Reserve Bank on such 
bares of the State Bank held by it as do not exceed 55 per cent of the total 
issued capital ; and ( ii) such contributions as the Reserve Bank or the Central 
Movernment may make from time to time. The amount in the Fund will be ap 
plied exclusively for meeting ( a ) losses in excess of such yearly sum as may be 
agreed upon betweon the Reserve Bank and th # State Bank and attributable to 
the additional branches established by the Bank in pursuance of the provisions 
of the Act ; and (b ) such other losses or expenditure as may be approved by the 
Central Government in consultation with the Reserve Bank , 


National Agriculturel Credit Funds - One of the important recommendations 
of the Report of the All - India Rural Credit Survey for the orderly financing of 
the reorganisation proposed by it was the creation of five national funds, three . 
in connection with agricultural credit and two for the development of co -operation 
and warehousing. Two of these funds, namely , the National Agricultural Credit 
(Long -term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) , 
Fund, are to be set up by the Reserve Bank in terms of the provisions embodied 
in the Reserve Bank of India ( Amendment) Act, 1955 . The Long - term Operations . 
Fund will be used ( i ) for long - term loans and advances to State Governments 
for a maximum period of 20 years to enable them to subscribe directly or in 
directly to the share capital of co - operative credit institutions, ( ii ) for medium 
term loans (between 15 months and 5 years ) to State co -operative banks for agri 
cultural purposes , ( iil) for long - term loans and advances to central land mortgage 
banks upto a maximum period of 20 years and ( iv ) for the purchase of deben 
tures of central land mortgage hanks. The Reserve Bank will credit to the Fund 
in initial sum of Rs, 10 crores and such further sums as it may contribute every 
year. The annual contribution during the five years commencing with the year 
ending June 30 , 1956 shall not be less than Rs, 5 crores. The Stabilisation Fund 
will be applied exclusively to medium - term loans and advances to State Co -opera 
tive banks to enable them to convert their short- term credit into inedium -term 
redit whenever it is necessary as a result of drought, famine or other natural, 

lamities . This Fund will be credited with such sums as the Bank may con 
tribute every year provided that the contribution during each of the five years 
rommencing with the year ending June 30 , 1956 shall not be less than Rs. 1 crore . 
h the case of both the Funds the Central Government may , it necessary , autho 
rise the Bank to increase or reduce its contribution in any year , 


The Bui Market Scheme - Since its introdution in January 1952 the Bill 
Market Scheme has undergone several modifications with a view to extending 
and liberalising the facilities available under it . In July 1954 it was further ex 
tanded , to an even greater degree than was recommended by the Committee on 
Finance for the Private Sector, to all licensed scheduled banks, irrespective of 
the size of their deposits . The minimum limit of advances under the scheme was 
at the same time reduced from Rs. 25 lakhs to Rs. 10 lakhs and the minimum 
amount of cach individual bill was lowered from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 50 ,000 . Banks 
haye availed themselves of the facilities under the Bill Market Schemc in in 
ereasing measure ; during the year , gross advances against usance bills under 
Section 17 ( 4 ) ( c ) amounted to Rs. 160 crores as against Rs. 127 crores in the pre 
vious year. The maximum Agure of advances availed of in any single month 
was reached in May 1955 ( Rs. 39 crores ) . Advances under Section 17 ( 4 ) ( a ) 
against Government securities totalled Rs. 163 crores during the year , showing 
only a nominal increase over the total for the previous year. Thus, the com 
bined accommodation granted by the Reserve Bank during 1954 -55 was Rs. 323 

rores , 23 against Rs, 289 crores in 1953 - 54 . Advances outstanding at the end 
of the year under Section 17 ( ) ( C ) Amounted to Rs. 19 crores and those under 
Section 17 ( 4 ) ( a ) to Rs. 0 . 32 crore. Reference has been made in an earlier sec 
No to the greater elasticity and autonomy that has been lent to the Indian 
money market as a result of the working of the Bill Market Sehome. 


: PART II - SEÇ, 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 19, 1955 


1757 


Other facilities to Banks. Besides the concessions under the Bill Market Scho 
me a few others were also Introduced during the year. In August 1954, as re 
commended by the Shroff Committee , the Reserve Bank announced its decision 
to treat the shares and bonds of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India and 
of State Financial Corporation on a par with Government securities for the pur 
pose of advances to scheduled banks under Section 17 ( 4 ) ( a ) of the Reserve 
Bank of India Act . Similarly , in February 1955 , as recommended in the Report 
of the All - India Rural Credit Survey , debentures of land mortgage banks guar 
anted by State Governments were also declared to be on a par with Government 
securities for the purpose. Towards the end of the year, in June 1955 , it WAS 
decided to accord similar treatment to bonds issued under Section 27 of the Air 
· Corporations Act, 1953. 


Banker to State Goveroments. At the commencement of the year under review , 
the Reserve Bank was functioning as gole banker to the Government of all Part 
A States and of five Part B States . No further progress was made during the 
year towards the appointment of the Bank as banker to the Governments of the 
remaining Part B States , namely , Rajasthan and PEPSU . 

Industrial Finance. - The institutional set - up for providing industrial finance 
and for facilitating industrial growth both in the public and private sectors was 
widened and strengthened in a number of ways during the year. For the develop 
ment of the private sector of industry , the Industrial Credit and Investment Cor 
poration of India , Ltd ., was established with an authorised capital of Rs. 25 
crores. The issued capital is Rs. 5 crores, of which Rs. 1 } crores were taken by 
certain , mainly institutional, Investors in the U . K . and the U . S . A . In addition 
to the substantial loan assistance of Rs. 7 . 5 crores from the Government of 
India , the Corporation will have at its disposal funds to the tune of $ 10 million 
from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. 

For medium and small-scale industries four more State Financial Corporations 
were established in Uttar Pradesh , Bihar, Rajasthan and Madhya Bharat, raising 
the number of such Corporations to eleven , The Corporations of the Punjab , 
Saurashtra , Bombay, Travancore - Cochin , Hyderabad and West Bengal have al 
ready started functioning ; the other Corporations have not yet granted any loans. 

The Central Government also get up the National Small Industries Corporation 
Ltd ., for financing and promoting small- scale industries in India and the National 
Industrial Development Corporation for establishing and financing medium and 
large -scale industries insofar as they are incidental to planned development, that 
is , to fill in the gaps in the industrial structure so as to secure harmonious develop 
ment in the public and the private gectors . 


In pursuance of the recommendations of the Shroff Committee regarding a con 
surtium or syndicate for underwriting or investing in new issues of shares and 
debentures of industrial concerns, the Reserve Bank appointed a Committee to 
consider the formation of such a consortium , The Committee s Report was sub 
mitted to the Bank in October 1954 and is receiving attention . However , as 
recommended by the Shroff Committee in relation to the Imperial Bank of India , 
the State Bank of India has been authorised , subject to such instructions as may 
be issued by its Central Board, to invest its funds in debentures of companios 
with limited liability , registered in India or in such other country as the Central 
Government may approve , 

Reserve Bank and Co -operative Banks. — The recommendations contained in the 
Report of the All - India Rural Credit Survey were accorded general approval at 
a joint meeting of the Standing Advisory Committee on Agricultural Credit and 
the Central Committee for Co - operative Training in January 1955 , and by the 
Second Indian Co - operative Congress in March 1955 . After preliminary talks 
between the Reserve Bank and State Governments , a conference was called in 
April 1955 , both at the secretarial and ministerial levels , where the Government 
of India , the Reserve Bank , the Planning Commission and State Governments were 
represented . at which agreed conclusions were reached in regard to proposals for 
implementing the recommendations. An important decision related to the for 
inulation of individual State plans for co -operative development as part of the 
second Five - Year Plan , in consultation with the Government of India and the 
Reserve Bank . 

Further progress was made by the Reserve Bank in its efforts towards rew 
organising the co - operative credit structure in various States; by the end of 
1954 - 55 , there were apex co -operative banks in all the Part A and Part B States 
and , with the exception of Manipur, Tripura and Kutch , in all Part C States as 
well . 


1758 

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 (PART II- Sec . 3 
= = = 

Inspection of co - operative banks on a voluntary basis has been in operation 
since 1952-53. In 1954 - 55 , 35 co -operative banks were inspected , as against two 
in 1952 - 53 and 14 in 1953- 54 . The defects observed in the working of the banks, 
as also suggestions for improvement, were communicated in each case to the 
Registrar of Co -operative Societies . 


Financial Accommodation to Co-operative Banks. - -During the year under re 
view , there was a perceptible rise in credit limits sanctioned to State co -operative 
banks for financing seasonal agricultural operations and marketing of crops, at 
the concessional rate of 15 per cent; limit totalling Rs. 21: 21 crores were sanctioned 
to 15 State co -operative banks in 1954 - 55 as compared to Rs. 16 : 32 crores sanc 
tioned to 13 State co -operative banks in 1953- 54 . The increased accommodation 
availed of by State co -operative banks resulted mainly from the further progress 
made in the reorganization of the co - operative movement in various States and . 
also from the readiness of State Governments to stand guarantce for the loans 
granted to State co - operative banks where these banks were not eligible for ac -. 
commodation on their own strength . 


In regard to medium -term loans, the amendment to the Reserve Bank of India . 
Act effected in 1953 permitted loans with a maturity of between 15 montis and 
5 yoars. To give effect to this amendment, the Bank has started granting Axed 
loans for periods of three years under Section 17 (4A ) of the Act, though appli. 
cations for longer periods, that is , upto 5 years, could be considered in cases of 
necessity ; the rate of interest was Axed at 2 per cent below the Bank rate; the 
guarantee of the respective State Governments and promissory notes executed by 
the borrowing central co -operative banks or societies were to be the security for 
the advances, Included among the purposes for which medium - term loans can be 
granted are the reclamation of land, bunding and other land improvements , pur 
chase of livestock , implements and machinery required for agriculture and the 
construction of farm houses and cattle sheds, Medium - term loans of Rs. 1 : 22 
crores were sanctioned to four State co - operative banks during the year viz ., those 
in Andhra , Madras, Hyderabad and the Punjab , 

Reference was made in last year s Report to a scheme of joint purchase of 
debentures of land mortgage banks by the Reserve Bank and the Government of 
India (or the State Government by arrangement with the Government of India ) 
on certain terms and conditions , which were mainly intended to ensure that an 
increasing proportion of loans were made by the land mortgage banks for produc 
tive purposes. During the year under review , the offer to purchase debentures 
under the scheme was made to four central land mortgage banks, viz ., those in 
Andhra , Madras, Mysore and Travancore -Cochin which had Aoated debentures , 
Thc Madras and Andhra State Governments Accepted the terms and conditions 
laid down under the scheme, but the Reserve Bank was not called upon to make 
any contribution as the series of debentures were over - subscribed . The Mysore 
and Travancore - Cochin State Governments did not pursue their request for the 
Restrve Bank s subscriptions to their debentures , 


No -operative Marketing . - An important recommendation of the All - India Rura ), 
Credit u " vey Report was to link credit with marketing . This implied the estab . . 
lishment of strong marketing societies at all levels - primary , regional and State . 
In order to trengthen the position of the existing State Marketing Federations. . 
of which there are seven in all, it was considered very desirable that an inspec 
tion of some of 1. 

hem should be conducted to find out the lines on which market 
ing societies at lov 

er levels should be developed . A beginning in this direction 
was made towards t. " 

e end of the year under review with the inspection of the 
Uttar Pradesh Co-ope. 

1 . vative Marketing Federation jointly by the Reserve Bank : 
and the Government of 

te lodia , Ministry of Food and Agriculture . 

Bankers Training College, to which reference was 
Training Facilities . - - The 

Inaugurated in September 1964 , to impart train 
made in last year s Report,w 

un supervisory staff of commercial banks in the 
ing in pratical banking to th the College . the Reserve Bank has constituted ! 
COUI 

running of training each of eight weeks duration , 
an Advisory Council. Four course we was attended by 24 trainees deputrd by 
have been completed and each cou . so designed as to be of maximum advant- - 
commercial banks. The curriculum is vare - sized branch of a commercial bank . 
age to the branch manager of the ave realistic interest in banking as a worth 
The endeavour has been to promote a use ot confidence backed by knowledge 
while career and to encourage a sound ge by the College and their beneficiall 
and Linderstanding . The facilities afforded asingly appreciated by banks. 
effects on individual trainees anve been incr 


PART II — Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1956 


1759 ) 


Further progress was made during the year in regard to arrangements for the 
training of co -operative personnel, Facilities at the Poona College for the train 
ing oť senior personnel were expanded to provide for 40 candidates in each session , 
As for the training of intermediate personnel, of the five centres proposed in the 
country, three have already been started in Poona, Madras and Pusa to serve 
their respective zones, and arrangements for starting the other two are under 
way . Steps were also taken during the year to facilitate the training of subor 
dinate co -operative personnel, in accordance with a scheme that was finalised 
by the Central Committee for Co -operative Training in July 1954 which has since 
been approved by the Government of India . The respective schemes of the State 
Governments on the lines laid down by the Central Committee are now under 
consideration . A scheme was also formulated for the training of Block - Level 
Co - operative Officers of the National Extension Service Blocks under the auspices , 
of the Central Committee for Co -operative Training and has been approved by 
the Government of India , 

SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OF BANKING 
Besides the various steps taken to extend banking facilities , the Reserve Bank 
Atinued its policy of strengthening the banking system through enforcement ut 
The various provisions of the Banking Coinpanies Act, 1949. 

Inspection . — The policy of systematic inspection of banking companies was de 
cided on in July 1949 and has been an important instrument for raising the sian 
dard of working of individual banks. Regular inspections were commenced in 
March 1950, and upto June 1955 , 599 banks in all were inspected and of these 

199 (51 scheduled and 148 non -scheduled ) were inspected more than once . The 
first round of inspections of practically all the reporting banks has been com 
pleted and greater attention is being given to re -inspection . Of the 177 banks 
(29 scheduled and 148 non - scheduled ) inspccted during the year , 59 were inspect 
ed for the first time under Section 22 of the Banking Companies Act to ascertain 
their cligibility for grant of a licence to carry on banking business , while the 
inspection of 107 banks was undertaken to assess their overall financial position 
and methods of operation as well as to ascertain their eligibility for grant of a 
licence to carry on banking business, uncler Section 35 of the Banking Companies 


- Act. 


Whenever objectionable fcatures have been observed in the course of an ins 
perlion , periodical progress reports from that bank have been called for . As on 
June 30 , 1955 , 107 banks were required to submit monthly reports and 313 banks 
quarterly reports , I re - inspection shows that the defects observed in the course 
of previous inspections still persist, the attention of the banks is specially 
invited to such features for their speclic comments . The practice of pointing 
out defects and calling for progress reports in regard to their rectifcation has 
proved to be useful. As stated in the last year s report, if inspection reports 
revealed that stricter control over the affairs of the banks concerned was called 
for, the necessary conditions were imposed ; there are at present 13 banks 17 
scheduled and 6 non - scheduled ) on whom such conditions have been imposer 
Ini certain cases , the appointment of banking advisers has been insisted upon 
to guide the banks . 


Scrutiny of periodical returns showed that delaults under Section 24 ( regard 
ing the maintenance everyday of the 20 per cent ratio of cash , gold and unen 
cumbered approved securities to total liabilities ) and Section 25 ( regarding the 
maintenance in India at the close of every quarter of 75 per cent of total assets ) 
were of a casual nature , except in a few instances . Habitual defaults under ser 
tion 24 are viewed seriously and powers under Section 46 ( 5 ) Învoked , where 
necessary . 

Lending Policy . There was no occasion for issuing directives to banks in ge 
peral or to any particular group of banks in respect of their lending policy. How 
ver, certain undesirable features which were noticed in the advances portfolio 

certain banks in the course of the Bank s Inspections were brought to the notice 

he banks concerned for being rectifled . 
of 1 

msing of Banks, -- The total number of banks that have applied for a licence 
LicLic . 

on banking business in India under the Banking Companies Act, 1949 . 
to carry at the end of the year under review ; of these, 507 ( 88 scheduled and 
was 123 & eduled ) were, in fact, functioning and the rest have either gone into 
419 non -sci ceased to be banking companies or were reported to be taking steps 

quidation 0 . mselves into non -banking companies. Licences were refused during 
to convert the 

2n - scheduled banks as they did not satisfy the requisite conditions 
the year to 7 nits 

ks applied during the year for a licence to cominence banking 
Two foreign ban 


O 


1760 TEE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1955 [ PART II - SEC . 3 

- - - - 
business in India ; in one case , however , the application was dropped when the 
bank subsequently transferred its assets and liabilities in Indle to a scheduled 
ibank , The number of banks to which licences have been given so far is 36 , 

The slow progress made in the licensing of banks is due principally to the 
Reserve Bank s anxiety to safeguard the interests of the depositors and at the 
same time to give as many banky as possible a fair chance to qualify for a licence . 
The system of inspections and periodical reports has proved useful and reveals 
progress by banks, although in varying degrees. It should be possible for many 
of the banks to show further improvement and conform in due course to the 
standard of eligibility for a licence laid down by the Bank , 

Exemptions . With a view to mitigating the difficulties experienced by banks, 
several exemptions from statutory obligations have been granted either generally 
to all banks or groups of banks or te individual banks. Some of these are re 
ferred to below . 

Banks incorporated in Part B States and confining their activities to those 
States had been granted a general exemption from the provisions of Section 11 
(which governs the minimum pald -up capital and reserves of banking companley) 
of the Banking Companies Act upto the end of March 1955 . As the possibly 
of a majority of them complying with the provisions appeared to be remote it 
was not considered necessary to extend the period of general exemption . How - · 
ever , in certain cases , both in Part A and Part B States, further extension of 
six months or one year was recommended on a consideration of the merits of 
each case, 

As prices of Government securities had not recovered to any substantial ex 
tent during the year , the exemption granted to all banking companies in 1951 fron 
the provisions of Section 17 of the Banking Companies Act , 1949 , insofar as that 
Section had the effect of preventing appropriation from the reserve fund for the 
purpose of writing off the amount of losses in investments in Government securities 
before declaring a dividend out of the net profits, was continued for the calendar 
years 1954 and 1955. 

The exemption _ granted to all banking companies from certain provisions of 
Section 24 of the Banking Companies Act in the years 1951 to 1954 was extended 
for a further period of one year from June 9 , 1955. Under this exemption , banky 
are allowed to exclude from their liabilities their borrowings from the Imperial 
Bank of India and to treat , as unencumbered the approved securities lodged witla 
other banking companies to the extent they are not utilised for advances or other 
credit arrangements . 


Banking companies incorporated in Travancore -Cochin and confining their acti 
vities to that State were permitted upto the end of March 1955 to maintain a 
smaller proportion ( 15 per cent ) of their demand and time llabilities in eligible 
assets instead of 20 per cent, as required by Section 24 of the Banking Companies 
Act, 1949. This exemption was extended for a further period of one year . 

Scheduled and Non -Scheduled Banks, During the year only one bank applicd 
for inclusion and was included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of 
India Act; the applications of five others are under consideration , No bank was . 
excluded from the Second Schedule , nor was any bank inspected during the year 
specifically for determining its eligibility to be retained in the Second Schedule . 
During the year , 19 new offices were opened at places not formerly served by a 
commercial bank and the total number of offices of scheduled banks in the India 
Union as at the end of the year was 2 ,817 . While eight non - scheduled banks, 
which were in liquidation or were refused a licence under Section 22 of the Bank 
ing Companies Act or which connected themselves into non - banking Companies , 
were excluded from the approved list for purposes of remittance facilities , one was 
included . One non - scheduled bank was allowed to open an account during 
year with the Reserve Bank of India . 

A scheme of amalgamation , which , in the opinion of the Reserve Bank , did not 
appear to be in the interests of the depositors and failed to comply fully with the 
requirements of Section 44A of the Banking Companies Act, was dropped by the 
banks concerned . In three instances, transfers of certain agreed liabilities and 
assets , which did not require the Reserve Bank s specific sanction in terms of 
Section 45 ( 1 ) of the Banking Companies Act, were effected . 

Legislative Amendments Relating to Banks. Consequent upon the coming into 
force of the Banking Companies ( Amendment) Act, 1953 , the Banking Companies 
Rules, 1949 were amended in November 1954 by a notification prescribing a form 
in which the official liquidator of a banking company that has been ordered to 


PART , Sec. 4 ) 


THE GAZE 


& OF INDIA , 


EM 


10 , 1996 


be wound up , should Ale with the High Court the list of debtors as provided for 
in Section 45D ( 2 ) of the Banking Companies Act. 

The Fourth Schedule to the State Bank of India Act amended the Banking 
Companies Act so as to provide for the State Bank of India to be appointed as 
the official liquidator of à banking company in case it makes an application to 
the Court for the purpose . It also made certain provisions of the Banking Com 
panics Act, which were previously applicable to the Imperial Bank of India , now 
applicable to the State Bank ; and has empowered the Central Government to 
exempt the State Bank from any or all of the provisions of the Banking Com 
panies Act . 

In November 1954 , together with certain other Acts , the Reserve Bank of India 
Art and the Banking Companies Act were extended to the erstwhile French Estab 
lishnients that were merged with India . 


ACCOUNTS AND OTHER MATTERS 


Annual Accounts . - During the year under review , the Bank s income amount 
ed to Rs. 25 : 01 crores, and expenditure , which includes the expenses of adminis 
tration and provision for sundry liabilities and contingencies, to Rs. 5 01 crores . 
The net profit available for payment to the Central Government in terms of Sec 
tlon 17 vi the Reserve Barik of India Act was higher at Rs. 20 : 00 crores, as against 
Rs. 17 . 50 crores last year and Rs. 12 . 50 crores in 1952 - 53 . 

The Bank s income, which had risen by over Rs. 5 crores in cach of the years 
1952 - 53 and 1953 - 54 , showed a further increase of Rs. 3 . 07 crores during the 
year under review . The risc resultrd mainly from increases under the heads 
Interest and Discount . The rise under Interest ( Rs. 1 . 91 crores ) was due 
partly to larger earnings on Central Government securities held by the Bank 
and partly to the conversion of the Bank s holdings of the 13 per cent. U . K . 
Serial Funding Stock , 1954, into other securities giving higher yields. The 
income from Discount showed a rise of Rs. 1 : 06 crores during the year, mainly 
as a result of the creation of ad hoc Treasury bills for the purpose of replenish 
ing Government s cash balances with the Reserve Bank . There was also a 
small increase in leceipts under "Exchange due to larger transfers, during the 
year , of sterling to the High Commissioner for India in London , 

Relatively to the previous year , expenditure rose further by Rs. 57 . 48 lakhs, 
inainly under the heads Establishment and Security Printing . The increase 
under Establishment ( Rs . 33 :51 akhs ) was due , among other factors , to the 
revision of staff salaries , payment of salaries to the staff on the Bankers Training 
College and appointment of temporary staff at almost all the offices of the 
Bank to cope with the increase in work . The expenditure under Security 
Printing increased by Rs. 16 . 09 lakhs, mainly as a result of larger supplies of 
Bank Note forms flurn the India Security Press , Nasik and a small rise in the 
manufacturing cost of Note forms, 


Auditors. - - The Accounts of the Bank have been audited by Messrs. S . B . 
Billimoria and Co of Bombay , Messrs . P . K . Ghosh and Co. of Calcutta and 
Messts, Sastri and Shah of Madras, who were appointed by the Government of 
Indih as Auditors of the Bank ly Notification No . F . 3 (40 ) F - I / 54 , dated Scptem 
ber 6 , 1954 issued in exerrise of the powers conferred by Section 50 of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act 


Compensation to Shareholders. - At the end of June 1955 , the total number 
of shares of the Bank tendered for payment of compensation , consequent on the 
nationalisation of the Bank on January 1, 1949 , was 4 ,86 ,523 of which 1,718 
shares were tendered during the year under review . The total compensation 
paid upto the end of June 1955 in the form of the 3 per cent. First Develop 
ment Loan , 1970 - 75 amounted to Rs. 5 . 40 crores and in the form of cash to 
Rs . 35 . 22 lakhs. 


Composition of the Central Board . — Shri B . Rama Rau , whose term of oflice 
as Governor of the Bank was extended for one year upto June 30 , 1955 , was 
re- appointed by the Union Government as Governor for a further period of two 
years , with effect from July 1 , 1955 . 

Shri N . Sundaresan relinquished office as Deputy Governor on the expiry 
of his term of appointment on December 31 , 1954, and in his place , the Union 
Government appointed Shri K . G . Ambegaokar as Deputy Governor for a term 
of five years , cflective froin March 1, 1955. 


1762 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10, 1955 


[ PART II - SEC. 3. 


The Union Government notified , on June 10 , 1956 , the appointment of Shri 
B , Venkatappiah as Deputy Governor of the Bank for a period of five years 
as from July 1, 1955, following the amendment to Section 8 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the 
Reserve Bank of India Act, which provided for the appointment of threc Deputy 
Governors instead of two earlier. 

The term of office of Shri D . N . Sen and Sahu Jagdish Prasad as Directors 
of the Central Board expired on January 14 , 1955 and their vacancies were 
Alled by the nomination by the Union Government, as from January 15 , 1955 , 
of Shri D . N . Mitra and Prof . Gorakhnath Sinha as Directors of the Central 
Board in terms of Section 8 ( 1 ) (c ) of the Act. 

The Union Government nominated Shri K , G . Ambegaokar, I. C . S . to be a 
Director of the Central Board under Section 8 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Act in place of 
Shri S . G . Barve , I. C . S . with effect from July 23 , 1954, Shri Barve was reno 
minated from August 18 , 1954 and continued as a Director till January 4 , 1955 , 
when Shri H . M . Patel, I. C . S , was nominated in his place . On May 21, 1955 , the 
Union Government nominated Shri D . L . Mazumdar , I. C . S . as a Director rice 
Shri Patel 

Meetings of the Central Board and its Committee. — Eight meetings of the 
Central Board were held during the year , of which Ave were in Bombay and . 
one each in Calcutta , New Delhi and Madras . The Committee of the Central 
Board held Afty - two meetings, all in Bombay, except for one in Madras . 

Bank s Premises . During the year under review , the Bank constructed a 
building comprising 30 flats at the Back Bay Reclamation to provide residential 
accommodation for officers at Bombay . The work of construction of residential 
quarters to accommodate 222 familics of the Bank s officers and other categories 
of staff at Madras , and of new buildings for the Bank s offices in Calcutta and . 
Madras , was also commenced during the year. 

By Order of the 
Central Board of Directors , 

B . RAMA RAU , 

Governor 


1765 


- 


- - 


- 


PART II - Sec. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 - 

-- = = = - _ 
(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
Office of the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India 


CORRIGENDUM 


New Delhi, the 1st Septeinber 1955 
S . R . O . 1928 . - In the list of properties and the list and abstract account of 
securities hold by the Treasurer of Charitable Endowments for India for the 
year 1954 - 55 , published in the Gazette of India , Part II . Section 3 , dated the 
13th August, 1955 


1. On page 1573 , ( a ) In Column 1 for " & 3 " road " 7 & 3 " . 

( b ) In column 6 against Serial Nos . 7 & 8 for the words " Fenkins House” read 
" Jenkins House " , 

2 . On page 1576 . In the Column headline above figure 7 for the figures 
" 41 per cent, 1955 - 60 " rend “ 4 per cent. 1955 - 80 " . 

3 . On page 1579 , (a ) In Column 8 against Case No. 16 for " 79000 ” read “ 7300 " . 

( b ) In Columns 10 and 14 against case No. 21, for " 10 - 9 - 2 " please read " 10 - 9 - 2 * " 
and " Representing the amount leſt over after the conversion of Rs. 5300 of 3 per 
cent. 1953 - 55 into 3 per cent. of 1946 " read " * Representing the amount left over 
after the conversion of Rs. 5300 of 3 per cent. 1953- 55 into 3 per cent of 1946 " . 

No . F. 1(4 )- F . I- TCE / 55. 1 

S . G . BARVE , 
Treasurer of Churitable Endowments for India , 
- - - - - - - - - - - 

— - - — — - 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE (REVENUE DIVISION ) 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1955 


DANGEROUS DRUGS 
S . R . O . 1929. The following draft of certain further amendments which the 
Central Government proposes to make in the Central Manufactured Drugs Rules , 
1934, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 6 of the 
Dangerous Drugs Act , 1930 ( II of 1930 ) , is published , as required by sub - section 
( 1 ) of section 36 of the said Act , for the information of all persons likely to be 
affected thereby , and notice is hereby given that the draft will be taken into consi 
deration or after the 15th October , 1955 . 

Any objection or suggestion which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date specified will be considered by the Central 
Government. 

Draft Amendments 
In the said Rules 

( 1 ) In rulc 3 , for the brackets and words “ ( other than codeine, dionine or the 
baine or any of their salts ) " the brackets and words “ (other than codeine , dionine, 
thebaine , dihydrocodcinone, dihydrocodeine, acetyl dihydrocodine, acetyl 
Jihydrocodeinone, dihydromorphine, dihydromorphinone, dihydro hydroxy codeinone 
or any of their salts ) ” shall be substituted . 

( 2 ) For rule 5 , the following rule shall be substituted, namely ; - 


" 5 . The manufacture of morphine, codeine, dionine, thebaine, dlhydro 

codeinone, dihydrocodeine, acetyl dihydrocodeine, acetyl dihydro 
codeinone, dihydromorphine, dihydromorphinone, dihydro hydroxy 
codeinone and their respective salts is prohibited save by the officers 
of the Government Alkaloid Works, Ghazipur ." 

[ No. 5 . ] 
( Sd .) [ ILLEGIBLE.] 

Under Secy . 


TIE GAZETTE OF INDIA SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[ PART II - Sec , 3 


SCSS 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 

HEADQUARTERS ESTABỊISHMENT. 
S . R . O . 1930. - In pursuanch of clause (b ) of sub - rule ( ii ) of rule 2 of the Appel 
late Tribunal Rules , 1946, the Central Government has been pleased to appoint 
Shri M . U . Reddy , Income- tax Officer , as Authorised Representative with effect 
from the 16th August , 1955 , to appear , pleud and act for any Income - tax Authority 
who is a party to any procecdings before the Income- tax Appellate Tribunal. 

[ No. 122.] 
R . S . CHANDA , Under Secy. " 


New Delhi the 31st August 1955 

HEADQUARTERS ESTABLISHMENT 


S . R . O . 1931 , - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 2 of the Central , 
Board of Revenue Act, 1924 ( IV of 1924 ) , the Central Government hereby directs 
that, with rect from 14th August, 1955 , the Central Board of Revenue shall con 
sist of the following persons : - . 

Chairman 
1. Shri A . K Roy . 

Memhers , 
2 . Shri E . Rajaram Rao . 
3 " E . S . Krishnamoorthy. 
4 . " V . V . Chari. 
5 " S . D . Nargolwala . 
h 

A . C . Bose 
5 " Indarjit Singh , 

| No. 124 ,1 
SAROOP SINGH , Under Secy. 


New Delhi, the 10th September 1955 

CENTRAL EXCISES 
S . R . O . 1932 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 
of the Central Excise Rules , 1944 , as in force in India , and as applied to the 
State of Pondicherry , the Central Government hereby excmpts Aluminium 
Hydroxide and Gloss White from the whole of the duty leviable thereon , 
under section 3 of the Central Excises and Salt Act, 1944 ( I of 1944 ) . 

[NO, CER -B (1 ) / 55 . ] 

W . SALDANIIA , Dy. Secy. 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

- - 
CENTRAL BOARD OF REVENUE 
Neue Delhi, the 29th August 1955 

INCOME-TAX 
S . R . O , 1933, -- In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of section 5 
of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in supersession of its No 
cation S . R .O . 2115 (No. 38 - Income- tax , dated the 26th June, 1954 ), the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that Shri V . V . Subramanian , a Commissioner 
of Income-tax , shall perforin all the functions of a Commissioner of Income-tax 
in respect of : 
( 1) such areas as are comprised in the States of Assam , Manipur and 

Tripura , and 
( 2 ) such persons or clauses of persons, such incomes or classes of incomes 

or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the following 
income- tax circles , namely : 


PART II SEÇ. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1767 


IIIAX 01 I SƏ [J ]! ] [Buo 


Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax authority subordinate to him . 


Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
prisons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax authority 
cutside his jurisdiction . 


While cxercising the said functions the said Shri Subramanian shall be desig 
nated as Commissioner of Incometax , Assam , Manipur and Tripura or as the Com 
missioner of Incometax ( Central) Calcutta according as the functions performed 
have reference to the areas comprised in the States oſ Assam , Manipur and Tripura 
or to the Central Circles specified above as the case may be . 


[55 / 98 / 55 - IT . ) 

[No. 70 .] 


New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 


INCOME- TAX 


S . R . O . 1984 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 4 ) of section 5 of the Indian Income 
tax , Act, 1922 (XI of 1922) , the Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that the 
following further amendments shall be made to its notification No . 32 - Income- tax , 
dated the 9th November 1946 , namely : 


In the schedule appended to the said notification under the sub -head " V -West 
Bengal" under " E " Range, Calcutta , after entry " 9 Refund Circle , Calcutta " 
the following entry shall be added , namely : 


“ 10 . Estate Duty cum Income- tax Circle" . 


[ 50 /31 / 55 - IT . ] 


[ No. 69. 1 


New Delhi, the 18t September 1955 


INCOME - TAX 


S.R.O,sehe Indiana non pinterest 


S . R . O . 1935 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (2 ) of 
Section 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in supessession of 
its notification S . R . O . 498 (No. 11 - Income- tax dated the 23rd February, 1955 ) , the 
Central Board of Revenue hereby directs that: 


1. Shri K . S . Sundara Rajan , Commissioner of Incomc- tax , shall be designated 
as Commissioner of Income-tax , Bombay City I and shall perform all the functions 
of a Commissioner of Income-lax in respect of such areas or of such persons or 
classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of Incoms as are comprised in the 
Income-tax Circles , Words and Districts . In the areas of Bombay City and Bombay 
Suburban Districts specified in Column 1 of the said schedule hereto 
annexed and in respect of such persons or of such cascs as may be assigned by the 
Central Board of Revenue to any Income- tax authority subordinate to him , and 


2 . Shri V . Krishnamachari, Commissioner of Income- tax shall be designated 
as Comnissioner of Inrome-tax , Bombay City II and shall perform all the func 
tions of a Commissioner of Incoine -tax in respect of such areas or of such persons 
or classes of persons or of such incomes or classes of incomes as are comprised 
in the Income - tax Circles , Wards and Districts , in the areas of Bombay City and 
Bombay Suburban Districts specifled in Column 2 of the said Schedule and in 
respert of such persons or of such cases as may be assigned by the Central Board 
of Revenue to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him : 


Provided that each of these Commissioners shall not perform his functions in 
respect of such persons or such cases as have been or may be transferred by the 


1768 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[ PART II Sec . 3 


Central Board of Revenuç to any Income tax authority outside his jurisdictional 
areas as aforesaid . 

SCHPDUIF 


- - 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


Commissioner of Income- tax , Bombay City I 


Commissioner of Inc me- tax Bombay 

City II. 


Companies Circle I ( All sectiunsi, 


Companics Circle II ( All 3 :11011181 
Companies Circle III 16 ). 
Companies Circle IV ( All ycctions ), 
Bombay Circles I , II and IIT EPT) 
A - I Ward . 
A - III Ward , 
A - IV Ward 
A - V Waid . 
Market Ward . 
C - II Ward . 
Sularien Branch I 
Salaries Branch II . 
Bombay Refund Circle . 
Non -residents Refund Circle 
liveign Sautinn . 
Incom -et i cum Estate Duiy Circle 
Special Survey Circle I. 
Special Survey Circle VI. 
Special Investigation Brunch . 

- - - - 


Companies Circle III ( All section 

except 6 .. 
A - II Ward , 
B - I Ward . 
B - II Ward , 
3 - III Ward , 
C - 1 - - Ward . 
C - III Ward . 
C - IV Ward , 
D - I Ward . 
D -II Ward . 

E Wurd . 
G Warul . 
Bombay Suburban Distiict . 
Special Survey Cucle II. 
Special Survey Circle lil. 
Special Survey Cucle IV . 
Special Survey Cucle V 


- 


- 


ste 


- - - 


- - - - 


- - 


- 


- 


- -- - - - - - - - 
[ 55 / 98 / 55 -17 . ] 

[No. 71. ] 


S . R . O . 1936 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - section ( 2 ) of 
Section 5 of the Indian Income- tax Act, 1922 (XI of 1922 ) and in superscssion of 
its Notification S . R .O . 757 ( No . 20 Income- tax dated 30th March , 1955 ) the Central 
Board of Revenue hereby directs that Shri H . R . Agnihotri, a Commissioner of 
Incorre -tax , shall perform all the functions of a Commissioner of Incomc-tax in 
respect of such areas or of such persons or classes of persons or of such incomes 
or classes of incomes or of such cases or classes of cases as are comprised in the 
following Income - tax Circles, Wards , Districts and Sections, namely : --- 


(i) BOMBAY SOUTH 
All Income- tux Circles and Wards at Poona , 
All Income- tax Wards of Belgaum District. 
Satara North District. 
All Income-tax Wards of Satara South District. 
All Income- tax Wards in Kolhapur District, 
All Income- tax Wards of Thana District. 
All Income-tax Wards of Kolaba District . 
Ratnagiri District . 
All Income- tax Wards of Sholapur District, 
All Income- tax Wards of Ahmednagar District, 
All Income-tax Wards of Dharwar District. 
All Income- tax Wards of Bijapur District, 
Special Survey Bombay South Circle , 

(il) BOMBAY CENTRAL 
Central Section I , II, III , IV , V , VI, VII , VIII , IX , X , XI, XII, XIII . XIV 

and Central Circles I - A , I- B , I -C , II - A , II- B , II- C , II - D and II - E of 

Bombay Central Charge 
Provided that he shall also perform his functions in respect of such persons 
or such cases as have been or may be assigned by the Central Board of Revenue 
to any Income- tax Authority subordinate to him . 


Provided further that he shall not perform his functions in respect of such 
persons or such cases as have been or may be assigned to any Income- tax authority 
outside his jurisdiction . 


PART II SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1769 


- - - 


While exercising the said functions the said Shri Agnihotrl shall be designated 
as the Commissioner of Income- tax Bombay South , or as the Commissioner of 
Income- tax, Bombay ( Central ) according as the functions performed have refer 
ence to areas , persons, or classes of persons or incomes or classes of Incomes , cases 
or classes of cases comprised in the Income-tax Circles , Wards, Districts and 
Sections in Bombay South or Bombay ( Central) , as the case may be. 

[ 55 / 98 / 55 -IT. ] 

[No. 72.] 
K . B . DEB , Under Secy . 


— 


- 


- - 


- - 


- - 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY 

New Delhi, the 1st July 1955 


S .R . O . 1937 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 , ( 10 of 1955 ) and in supersession of the Government 
of India , latc Department of Industries and Supplies , Notification 
No. 73 / 1 - TA / 46 , dated the 28th December 1946 and the Government of India , 
late Ministry of Industry & Supply , Notification S . R . O . 846 dated the 4th November 
1950, the Central Government hereby directs that the powers conferred on it by 
sub - section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the said Act to provide for the matters specified 
in clauses ( c ) , ( d ) , ( e ) , ( f ) , ( g ) , ( h ) , ( 1 ) and ( j ) of sub - section ( 2 ) thereof 
shall, in relation to cotton textiles , be exercisable also by the Government of any 
Part A or part B State , Subject to the condition that no order made by the Gov 
crnment of a Part A or Part B State in the exercise of the aforesaid powers shall 
have cffect in so far as it is repugnant to any Order made under the said sub 
section ( 1 ) by the Central Government. 

[ No . 8 ( 20 ) - CT ( A ) /55 .] 
P . S . SUNDARAM , Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1955 
S . R . O . 1938 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( i ) of Clause 5 
of the Cotton Textiles ( Export Control) Order , 1949 , the Central Government 
herehy makes the following further amendment in the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the late Ministry of Commerce No. 67 -CW ( 25A ) / 48 , dated 
the 28th March 1949 , namely : 

In the said Notification , in sub - paragraph ( 1) of paragraph 2 , for item (iii) 
the following shall be substituted , namely : - 
" ( iii ) the width of the cloth in inches and the length in yards." 

( No . 46 ( 34 )-CT ( A ) / 52-27. ] 
V . NATESAN , Under Secy. 


Neil? Delhi, the 6th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1939 . In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( b ) of Clause 
2 of the Iron and Steel ( Scrap Control) Order, 1943, the Central Government is 
pleased to direct that the following amendment shall be made in the Notifica 
tions of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
Nos , S . R . O . 3295 [ ŞÇ ( A ) - 4 ( 216 ) / 54 - A and S . R . O . 3297 [ SC ( A ) - 4 ( 216 ) / 54 - C ) , 
dated the 19th October , 1954, published in Gazette of India , Part II , Section 3 , 
dated the 30th October , 1954, as amended from time to time, namely : 
The entry - - 

“ District Industries Officers , Government of Punjab ” . 
shall be inserted after the entry 
" Assistant Food Controller , Hissar " . 

(No. SC ( A ) -4 ( 216 ) / A . ] 


1770 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA SEPTEMBER 10, 1955 [ PART II — SEÇ , 3 

- . . . - = - 
S . R . O . 1940 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - clause ( a ) of Clause 
2 of the Iron and Steel (Control of Production and Distribution ) Order , 1941, 
the Central Government is pleased to direct that the following amendment shall 
be made in the Notifications of the Government of India in the Ministry of 
Commerce and Industry Nos . S . R .O . 3294 [SC ( A ) - 4 (216 ) / 54 ] and S . R . O . 3296 
[ SC ( A ) - 4 (216 ) / 54 - B ), dated the 19th October , 1954 , published in the Gazette 
of India , Part II, Section 3 dated the 30th October, 1954 , as amended from time 
to time, namely : 
The entry 

" District Industries Officers, Government of Punjab " . 
shall be inserted after the entry “ 
" Assistant Food Controller , Hissar ." 

[No. SC ( A ) -4 ( 218 ).) 
M . R . MENON , Under Secy . 


Indian Standards ſostitution 

New Delhi, the 2ni September, 1955. 
S . R . O . 1941 — In pursuance of sub -regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stan 
dards Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution Ferchy 
notifies that the Indian Standards, particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annexed . 
have been established during the period 26 August to 2 September 1955 . 

THE SCHEDULE 


No . and title of the 
Indian Standard established 


No. and title 
of the Indian 
Standard or 
Standards, if 
any, super 
seded by the 
acw Indian 


Brief Particulars 


Standard 


(4 ) 


I 


IS : 644 -1955 Specification 

for Dipentenc for Paints, 


This standard prescribes the requirc 
ments and the methods of test for 
Dipentene which is used as a thinner 
and solvent for paints . (Price Ro. I) . 


2 IS : 233- 1954 Methods for 

Determination of Mean Fibre 
Length of Cotton and the 
Proportion by Weight of 
Fibres of Different Length 
Grades in Cotton . 


This standard prescribes three methods 

viz ., Ball Sorter Method , Ahmed . 
Nanjundayyo Stapling Apparatus 
Method and Baer Sorter Method , 
for determining thomcan - fibre length 
and the proportion , by weight, of 
fibres of different length - grades in 
a sample of cotton . ( Price Rs. 1 - 8 - 0 ) . 


3 


IS : 666 - 1955 Specification for 

Drilling Jig Bushes 
( Tentative). 


This standard covers the different 

types of jig bushes used in drilling 
work (12 modern workshops, viz .. 
press At bushes (headlcas and headed ), 
renewable bushes (slip and fixed ) , 
and liners ( headless and headed 
( Price Rs, 2 - 8 - 0 ). 


Copics of all these standadrds are available for sale with the Secretary (Administration ), Ir. dior . 
Standards Institution , 19 University Road , Delhi- 8 , 


D . V . KARMARKAR , 
Deputy Director (Marks ), 

Indian Standards Institution . 

[No . MDC / 11 ( 4) ] 
T . 8 . RAMASWAMI, Under Socy . 


1 


PART II - SEC, 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1771 


MINISTRY OF FOOD AND AGRICULTURE 

( Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 29th August 1955 
S . R . O . 1942 . In pursuance of the provisions of Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton 
Cess Act, 1923 ( XIV of 1923 ) , the Central Government hereby nominate Shri 
V . Nanjappa , I. C . S ., Textile Commissioner to the Government of India as a member 
of the Indian Central Cotton Committee for a period of one year with effect from 
1st April, 1955. 

( No. F . 1 - 12 / 55 - Com .II.] 


Neu: Delhi, the 1st September 1955 
S . R . O . 1943 . - In pursuance of provisions of Section 4 ( x ) of the Indian Cotton 
C ess Act, 1923 ( XIV of 1923 ), the Central Government hereby re -nominate Shri 
C . Jaganatha Rao, Cotton Cum -Oilseeds Specialist , Andhra , as a member of the 
Indian Central Cotton Committee, for a period of one year with effect from the 
1st April , 1955 , 

( No. F . 1- 12 / 55 - Com .II.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1955 
S . R . O . 1944 . In pursuance of the provisions of Section 4 ( ii ) of the Indian 
Cotton Cess Act, 1923 (XIV of 1923 ) , the Central Government hereby nominate 
Dr. S . B . Singh , Director of Agriculture , Uttar Pradesh , as a member of the Indian 
Central Cotton Committee, Bombay , upto 31st March , 1958 , vice Dr. B . L . Sethi, 

[No. F .1 -12 / 56- Com , II.) 
F . C . GERA , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1955 
S . R . O . 1946 . In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of 
section 3 of the Destructive Insects and Pests Act, 1914 ( II of 1914 ) , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made 
in the notification of the Government of India , in the late Department of Educa. 
tion , Health and Lands No. F . 320 / 35 - A dated the 20th July , 1936 , namely : 
In the last proviso to clause 3 of the said Notification , after the word " Amritsar " 

the words " or at the Sewri Quarantine Station , Bombay " shall be 
substituted . 

( No. F . 6 - 12 / 55 -PPS. ] 
BALWANT SINGH , Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH 

New Delhi, the 27th August 1955 
S . R .O . 1946 . --- The Government of the State of Madras having nominated in 
exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( h ) of Section 3 of the Pharmacy Act, 
1948 ( VIII of 1948 ) , Dr. K . P . Sarathy , M . B ., B . S ., M .Sc., Professor of Pharmacology . 
Medical College, Madras as a member representing it in the Pharmacy Council of 
India , in the vacancy caused by the l esignation of Dr. V . Iswariah , the following 
amendment is made in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Health , No. F . 7 - 26 /53 - DS dated the 23rd June, 1954, namely : 
In the gaid notification , for the cntry " 28 . Dr. V . Iswariah , B . A ., M . R . C . P .. 

Professor of Pharmacology, Medical College, Madras " , the entry " 28 . 
Dr. K . P . Sarathy, M . B ., B .S ., B .Sc., Professor of Pharmacology . 
Medical College, Madras " shall be substituted . 

[No. F .7 -50 / 55 - D . ) 
New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 
S . R . O . 1947. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) 
of section 7 of the Drugs Act, 1940 ( XXIII of 1940 ) , the Central Government 


V 


1772 

TIIE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER , 10 , 1955 [ PART II ---Sec. 3 
= 

= - - 
hereby directs that the following further amendment shall be made in the notifica 
tion of the Government of India in the Ministry of Health , No. F . 1 - 3 / 47 - D ( II ), 
dated the 13th September, 1948 , constituting the Drugs Consultative Committee , 
namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading Nominated by State Governments 
after cntry 10 , the following entry shall be inserted , namely : 
" ( 11 ) Shri N . Chandrasekharan Nair, B . Pharm .. Assistant Drugs Control 
ler , State of Travancore- Cochin ." 

[ No. F .4 -6 /55 - D .] 
P . N . ANAND , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1950 
S . R . O . 1948 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of thc Indian Medical Council Art, 1933 (XXVII of 1933 
the Central Government hereby nominates Dr. S . N . Gantayet, M . B ., B . S ., D . O 
(Oxon . ) , Director of Health Services , Orissa , as a member of the Medical Council 
of India vice Lieutenant - Colonel P . Papatla resigned . 


. 


|No. 5 - 20 / 54 -MI. ) 
A V . VENKATASUBBAN , Dy Socy. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT 

( Transport Wing ) 
MERCHANT SHIPPING 


Nerr Delhi, the 27th August 1955 


S . R . O . 1949. — In pursuance of clause (b ) of suh - section ( 1 ) of section 213B of 
the Indian Merchant Shipping Act , 1923 ( XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government 
hereby declares that the Safety Convention as defined in clause ( d ) of section 
213 - A of the said Act , that is to say, the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sca 
signed in London on the tenth day of June, nineteen hundred and forty eight, has 
been extended to Tunisia , Morocco and the French Overscas Territories. 


Yana pune, nineteen hunthe safety of Life section 


INo. 46 -MA ( 71 /54 .1 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1955 
S .R . O . 1950 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 191 of the Indian 
Merchant Shipping Act, 1923 (XXI of 1923 ) , the Central Government hereby 
makes the following amendments in the Unberthed Passenger Ships Rules , 1954 . 
the same having been previously published as required by sub - section ( 3 ) of the 
said section , namely : 

In the said Rules 

(1 ) after the preamble , for the words " Draft Ruley" the word “ Rules" shall be 
substituted ; 

( 2 ) in clause ( v ) of rule 2 , for the words " Additional or Deputy Assistant 
Port Health Officer " , the words " Additional, Deputy or Assistant Port Health 
Officer " shall be substituted ; 


( 3) in the table accompanying rule 3 

( i) for the figures and abbreviations " oz" and " 1 oz" occurring in columns 2 
and 3 against the entry relating to "Ghee or oil" , the figures and abbreviations 
" 11 oz " and " 2 oz " , respectively , shall be substituted ; 

( ( ii) in column 2 against the entry relating to " Milk " the figure and abbrevi 
ation " 4 oz." shall be inserted ; 


PART II Sec . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1773 


( 4 ) in rule 7 – 

( i ) in clause ( a ), after the word " surveyor " the words " and the Port Health 
Officer " shall be inserted ; 
( ii ) after clause ( c ), the following clause shall be inserted , namely : -- - 
" ( d ) all fresh water tanks shall be clcaned out, cement washed (or , if 

coated with bituminous , plastic or other proprietory composition , 
recoated where necessary ) and aired and disinfected at intervals not 
cxcecding 12 months. In addition , the tanks should be thoroughly 
pumped out , hosed and disinfected prior to re - filling , at approximately 
six -monthly intervals . This disinfectation should , whenever possible , 

be carried out under the supervision of the Port Health Omcer." 
( 5 ) in rule 8 , for the words fresh drinking water" the words " fresh and 
potable drinking water" shall be substituted ; 
( H ) for rule 11, the following rule shall be substituted , namely : - - 
" 11. The medical officer or , if there is nd medical officer , the Master of a 

ship , shall provide frec medical stores and surgical appliances for the 

use of passengers requiring medical treatment while on the ship " ; 
171 in rulc 12 – 

( i) in clause ( i ) , for the words " surveyor or the port health officer " , the words 
" surveyor and the port health officer " shall be substituted ; 

( ii) in the table accompanying clause ( viii ) , for the headings of columns 2 
and 3 , the following headings shall be substituted , namely : -- - 


• 


Number of bids lor 
" Voyages w duration loerweer 18 Voyages of duration over 
hours and 120 hours . 

10 hours . 
( 8 ) in clause ( 1 ) of rule 14, for the words " surveyor or port health officer ” , 
the words " surveyor and the port health officer" shall be substituted; 

( 9 ) for rule 40 , the following rules shall be substituted , namely : 

" 40 . Inspection of Cutering Arrangements.- ( 1 ) ( a ) Every ship shall be 
inspected by the Port Health Omirer at a major port of embarkation , namely , the 
ports at Bumbay , Calcutta , Madras, Cochin , Visakhapatnam or Kandla and at the 
undermentioned minor ports of embarkation , namely : - -- 

( i ) Okha , 
( ii ) Nagapattinam , 
( iii ) Tuticorin , 
( IV ) Dhanushkodi, 
( v ) Mangalore, 
( vi ) Malpe, 
( vii ) Porbundar, 
(viii ) Bedibundar, 
( ix ) Chandbali, 
( x ) Gopalpur, 
( xi) Port Blair . 


and at such other ports us may be notified from time to time by the Central Gov 
ernment in this behalf . The inspection at a major port of embarkation shall take 
place in respect of ships engaged on Overseas unberthed passenger trade every 
time before passengers embark and at any of the said minor ports , or at any other 
bort that may be notified as aforesaid , at such intervals and at such time as may 
be found convenient by the Port Health Officer concerned . Every Port Health 
Officer shall issue a certificate of inspection in the form set out in Schedule VII 
after carrying out the necessary inspection and examination and after satisfying 
himself that the food , materials , utensils , cooking places and the dining spaces for 
passengers are satisfactory and the catering staff are fit and in good health to 
carry out their duties without detriment to the health of the passengers. The 
certificate of inspection shall be in triplicate , of which one copy shall be 
miven to the Master of the ship and the duplicate shall be forwarded to the 
Principal Officer , Mercantile Marine Department ( of the Madras , Bombay or 
Calcutta District , as may be appropriate ) and the triplicate shall be retained by 
the Port Health Officer. 


1774 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[ PART II - SEÇ. $ 


( b ) At the minor port of Mayabundar every ship shall be inspected by the 
Medical Officer and he shall issue a certificate of inspection in accordance with 
the provisions laid down in clause ( a ) . 

( 2 ) In the case of ships engaged in the coastal unberthed passenger trade and 
carrying passengers on short voyages , the inspection of food , materials , utensils , 
cooking places and the dining spaces for passengers may be carried out and the 
necessary certificate in the Form appended to these rules issued , as and when 
possible , by the Port Health Officer or the Medical Officer , as the case may be. 

( 3 ) The Master of a ship shall, as soon as he obtains a copy of the certificate 
of inspection , take all necessary steps to rectify any defect in the condition of 
food or materials , or any other matter , pointed out in the certificate and shall 
replace, before embarkation , any member of the catering staff who has been 
certified to be medically unfit . 

( 4 ) In any case where for any special reason it has not been possible for the 
Port Health Officer or the Medical Officer , as the case may be, at the main port of 
embarkation to issue a certificate of inspection as provided in the rule , the Port 
Health Oficer or the Medical Officer concerned , as the case may be, shall arrange 
to issue to the Master of the ship A certificate of exemption in the form set out in 
Schedule VIII . A copy of such certificate shall be forwarded to the Principal 
Officer , Mercantile Marine Department concerned ." 


( 10 ) In schedules I, II and III, for the names of the medicines mentioned in 
column ( 1 ) below , the names of the medicine mentioned against them in column 
( 2 ) shall respectively be substituted , namely : 

— 
Column (1 ) 

Column (2 ) 


In Schedule I 
Tablets medicinal Acidum Acetyl- Salicylicum , Tableta acidum acetylsalicylicum , 
5 grs. 

5 grs . 
Antiphologistinc . . . . . . Cataplasma Kaolin . 
Hydroxidum . . . . . . . 

Calcii Hydroxidunn . 
Coramina . . . . . . . Nikethamide , 
* Sulphamczathine " Tablets . Sulphadimidine . 
Anti- Teranic Serum , . . Antitoxin Tetanus. 
Frec double distilled water 5 C. C. ampoules Pyrogen free double distilled water 

5 c .c , ampoules . 
Novocaine . 

Procaine Hydrochloride, 
Protargol or Argyrol ( 10 % solution ) . Argentoproteinum mite . 
Tablets “ Paludrine" 

- Proguanil Hydrochloride . 
Tannafe . . . 

Tannic acid jelly . 
Tincture Digifortis . . 

. Tinctura Digitalis. 
Vaccinc anti -smallpux fresh 

. Vaccine Lymph ( fresh ) 
Catheter No. 8 size 

. . . Catheter metal No. 8 size . 

In Schedule 11 
Tablets medicinal Acidum 

. , Tablets Acidum , 
Acetylsalicylicum 5 grains . . . Acetylsalicylicum 5 grains . 
Tanna Fax . . . 

. . Tannic Acid Jelly . 

In Schedule IN . 
Tania Fax . . . . . . . Tannic Acid Jelly. 


- 


- 


[No. 55MA ( 10 ) / 52. ) 
S . K . GHOSH , Dy . Secy . 


- 


- 


PART II Sec. 31 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1775 


New Delhi, the 30th August 1955 

Ports 
S . R . O . 1951. - In exercise of ile ni wers conferred by sub - section ( 3 ) of section 
3 of the Indian Ports Art, 140 , 1XV Ol 1908 ) , the Central Government hereby 
authorises Sarvashri M . S Karnik and A . V . Figueredo, temporary pilots of the 
Bombay Port Trust, to pilot vessels in the Port of Bombay . 

[ No. 8 -PI ( 186) /55.] 


S . R . O . 1952 . - In pursuance of sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 9 of the Madras Port 
Trust Act , 1905 ( 

M las Act I of 1903 ) , it is hereby notified that, in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 13 of the said Act, Shri F . G . Hadden of Messrs . 
Gordon Woodroffe and Company (Madras ) Linni- d , Madras, has been elected by 
the Madras Chamber of Commerce to be a Tilitee of the Port of Madras with 
effect from the 18th August , 1955, l ire Shri J . R . Galloway resigned . 

[ No. 13 - PI( 70 ) / 55 . 7 
K . NARAYANAN , Under Secy . 


New Delhi, 1120 7011 Septeinber 1955 


PORTS 


S . R . O . 1953. — In cxercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 3 ) of section 
3 of the Indian Ports Act, 1908 (XV of 1908 ) , the Central Government is pleased 
to authorise the following officers to pilot vessels in and out of the Port of 
Kandla : 
1. Siri Ishak Abha , Serang , Pilot, Kandla Port — to pilot coastal vessels upto 

4 ,000 tons gross in and out of the Port of Kandla in day light only . 
2 . Shri Ayub Hasam , Serang Pilot, Kandla Port - to pilot coastal vessels 

upto 4 , 000 tons gross in and out of the Port of Kandla in day light 
only . 

[No. 3 - PII ( 87 ) / 55 . 1 
A V . SUBRAMANIA IYER , Under Secy . 


- - 


-- - 


- 


- - - 


- -- 


- 


- 


-- 


- 


- 


- 


- - - 


MINISTRY OF PRODUCTION 


Neve Delhi, the 3rd September 1955 


S . R . O . 1984. — In exercise of the powers conferred by claus. ( b ) of sub 
section ( 3 ) of section 4 of the Central Silk Board Act, 1948 ( L .XI of 1948 ) , read 
with sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 8 of the Central Silk Board Rules , 1955 , the Central 
Government hereby directs that the following amendment shall be made in the 
Notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry 
No . S . R .O 784 , dated the 7th April, 1955 , namely : 

In the said notification , for item No. 1, the following item shall be substituted, 
namely : 
" 1 . Shri V . Narayanan , Joint Secretary to the Government of India , Ministry 

of Finance ( I. & C . Division ) ." 


[No. 22 ( 1 ) - Cot. Ind (Silk ) / 55 . ] 
G . S. SHARMA , Under Secy, 


ORDER 

New Delhi, the 3711 August 1955 
S . R . O , 1955 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Essential 
Commodities Act, 1955 ( 10 of 1955 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the 


1776 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


(PART II — Sec. g 


following amendment in the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Production , No . 18 - CI ( 4 ) / 55 / I, dated the 10th June, 1955 , namely : 

In the Schedule to the said notification the following entries shall be added at 
the end , namely : 

" 11 . Director of Textiles and Consumer Clause (d ) Permitting diversion 
Goods Department of Food, Relief and Sup 

of coal consignments 
plies , Government of West Bengal and the 

from one station 10 
Movement Sponsoring Authority / Principal 

another wihin the 
Liaison Officer , Home ( Political) Depart 

State of West Ben 
ment, Government of West Bengal. 

gal. 
[No. 18 - CI (9 ) /55 .7 
A . NANU , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


1952 ), the Central Comernment competent authority 


MINISTRY OF WORKS HOUSING AND SUPPLY 

New Delhi, the 2nd September 1955 
S . R . O . 1956 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( b ) of section 2 
of the Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1952 (XXX of 
1952 ) , the Central Government hereby authorises the Estate Manager, Calcutta , to 
perform the functions of the competent authority under the said Art for the 
area within the jurisdiction of the Corporation of Calcutta , and also for that por 
tion of the arca in the districts of 24 Parganas in the State of West Bengal, 
which is not within the jurisdiction of the said Corporation , 

[NO. EV - 11 ( 1 ) / 55 .] 
J. L.. CHOPRA , Dy. Secy . 


- 


- 


MINISTRY OF REHABILITATION 

New Delhi, the 30th August 1955 
S . R . O , 1957. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Section ( 1 ) of Section 
3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 (44 of 
1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Prem Kumar, Custodian of 
Evacuee Property , Pepsu , as Additional Settlement Commissioner, for the purpose 
of performing the functions assigned to such Commissioner by or under the said 
Act . 

[No . 3 / 28 / 55 - SII. ] 
S .R . O , 1958. — Whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that it is 
necessary to acquire certain cvacuee properties in the State of Punjab for the 
public purpose being a purpose connected with the relief and rehabilitation oť 
displaced persons including payment of compensation to such persons, 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of 
section 12 of the Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act , 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) ; it is notifled that the Central Government has decided to acquire , 
and hereby acquires , the evacuee properties specified in the Schedule . 

THE SCHEDULE 
All cattle sheds and vacant sites in village abadis in the State of Punjab that 
is to say, cattle sheds and vacant sites situated in any area in that State outside 
the limits of a corporation , a municipality , a municipal committee, a notified area 
committee , a town area or A small town committee or a cantonment as those 
limits existed on the 15th August 1947, which have been declared or deemed to 
have been declared as evacuee properties under the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) except all such properties falling under any 
one or more of the following categories : 
( 1 ) any such property 
( i ) in respect of which proceedings are pending before any authority at the 

date of this notifcation under the Administration of Evacuee Property 
Art 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) in which the question at issue is whether 
the property is or is not evacuee property ; or 


PART II 


3 ] T 


i zi 


É OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1953 


IT 


( ii) in respect of which the period of limitation , if any, Axed for an appeal 

or revision under the sald Act for disputing the vesting of property in 
the Custodian as evacuee property has not expired ; 


( 2 ) any such property in respect of which an application for the grant of 2 
certificate under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 16 of the Administration of Evacuee 
Property Act, 1950 , (XXXI of 1950 ) is pending at the date of this notification or 
in respect of which the period of limitation Axed for making such application has 
not expired ; 


( 3 ) any such property which has been restored under section 16 of the Ad 
ministration of Evacuee Property Act , 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which 
an application under sub - section ( 2 ) of that section for its restoration is pending 
at the date of this notification , or in respect of which a certificate under sub 
section ( 1 ) of that section has been granted but no application under sub -section ( 2 ) 
of that section for its restoration has been made; 


( 4 ) any such property which before the dated of this notification has been 
transferred and the transfer is effective under section 40 of the Administration of 
Evaruee Property Act, 1950 (XXXI of 1950 ) or in respect of which any proceed 

Esare pending at the date of this notification under that section , 


( 5 ) any such property which is a composite property within the mcaning of the 
cvacuce Interest ( Separation ) Art , 1951 (LXIV of 1951 ) ; 


( 6 ) any such property in respect of which any proceedings are pending in a 
Civil Court wherein the question at issue is whether the property is evacuee pro 
perty or not; 


( 7 ) any such property which at the date of this notification is being trcated or 
is being managed as a trust property for a public purpose of a religious or charit 
able nature under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 11 of the Administration of Evacuec 
Property Act, 1950 ( XXXI of 1950 ) ; 


( 8 ) ariy such property in respect of which a reference has been made by the 
Vustodian to the Central Government for orders under clause (iii) ( d ) of sub - rule 

(6 ) oť rule 14 of the Administration of Evacuec Property Central Rules, 1950 and 
which reference is pending cither before the Central Government or before the 
Custodian , 


which rule isthe Centro 


[No . SIII- 19 ( 44 ) / 54.] 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1955 


S .R . O . 1989 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub - Şection ( 1 ) of 
Section 3 of the Displaced Persons ( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Act, 1954 
(44 of 1954 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Shri Bhojraj L . 
Radhakrishnani, as Settlement Officer for the purpose of performing the functions 
assigned to such officer by or under the said Art with effect from the date he 
took charge of his offee 


| No. 6 / 3 / 55 - ŞII .. ] 


M . L PURI, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1955 


S . R . O , 1960 , - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary to 
acquire certain evacuce properties in the State of Andhra for a public purpose , being a purpose 
connected with the relief and rehabilitation of displaced persons, including payment of compen 
gation to such persons; 

Now , therefore, in cxcrcise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 12 of the 
Displaced Persons (Compensation and Rchabilitation ) Act , 1954 ( 44 ( f 1954 ). it is notificd that 


1 


, 1978 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA SEPTEMBER , 10 , 19: 8 . 


(PART II - SEC, 3 


the Central Government has decided to acquire, and hereby acquiren , the evacuec properties 
specificd in the Schedule hereto annexed . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Particulars of the Evacuec 

Property 


No 


Name of the lown and 
1 cality in which the 
evacute property is 

situated 


Nume of the evacuee 


3 


Shri M . A . Razaah , 


1 . Position of Tiled house No . 18 Rajahmutidry Town Rajah 

134 01Gollud Veedhi,Man - mundry Division , 

galt Varapupota . 
2. 1 1 . No . 529 . Ward No . 14 | Mau Roud , Anakapalli 
1 T . S . No . 438 . 

Narasuparam Division 
Visakhapatiam District . 


Shi Shark Peer Moham 
0 . 


3 . Shop bearing dooi No . 78 Ward No, XI 01 Rayadrug Ilazi Karim Ahmed Samob . 

Ward XI of Rayadrug town , Anatlıpur Diy 
Town . 

trict , 
4 . | Residential house bearing No. ) Ward No, III Of Riyadrug Hari Karim Alinned Saheb . 

412, Ward III of Rayd - / town , Anathpur District, 

druy Town . 
5 . A terraced house bearing tot Ward No. 12 , of Guddapah Shaik Abdulla Saheb . 
Nut, 12 / 179 Guddapah 

cowi), Guddapah Dis 
Town . 

Trict , 
One dilapidated house No . 21 | Ramayupatnam village Saleh Mohamed Khan . 

17 - A , in Ramayupatnam Vi1- 1 Kanduker Taluk Nellore 
lage . 

District, 
7 . One dilapidated house u Bhogole Village , Kavalı Saleh Mohamed Khan . 
Bingole Village , 

Taluk , Nellore District. 
8 . | 131/ 5 , Reyidential Houye ! Old pet, Chandragiri, Chit - 1 Shri B . Mohammed 
Tiled Building ). Tvor. 

Issaque . 
- - - 

- - - - 

No . F . JO ( IIT ) SI/55 . 


New Delhi, the 7th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1961,- - In pursuance of sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 95 of the Displaced Persons 
( Compensation and Rehabilitation ) Rules , 1955 , the Central Government hereby 
divites applications in the form speciflcd in Appendix XXVI to the said rules , 
within ninety days from the date of publication of this notification , for the pay 
ment of rehabilitation grants from the class of persons referred to in sub - rule ( 1 ) 
of rule 96 of the said rules, that is to say , from all displaced persons having no 
verified claims who have left immovable property in West Pakistan and who came 
to India from West Pakistan after the 31st July 1952. 

[No. F .44 (5 ) - SI / 55. ] 

KULWANT SINGH , Under Somr, 
-- - - - - - - 
COLLECTORATE OF CENTRAL EXCISE , CALCUTTA 

Calcutta , the 20th August 1955 
S . R . O . 1962 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Rules, 233 and 50 of the 
Central Excise Rules , 1944, I hereby direct that no manufacturer of cement and 
Art Silk fabrics, which are subject to a duty of Excise , shall without the permis 
sion of the factory officer remove from the approved factory premises any non 
excisable goods produced in such premises; or , any intermediate or residuul pro 
ducts, except waste matter and such other material as may be specified, hereafter , 


- 


- 


PART II + SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1779 


by the Collector in writing. Until further orders applications for such clearances 
should be submitted to factory officers in the following form ; 
No . 

To 
The Factory Officer 

Factory 
Please authorise under rule 50 of Central Excise Rules, 1944 , removal of the 
following : - 

( 1 ) Quantity and description of goods. 
( 2 ) Name and Address of consignee. 
( 3 ) Date and time of removal. 
( 4 ) Marks & Nos . on packages. 

Signature 
Manufacturer / Agent. 


The Inspector of Central Excise shall after satisfying himself as to the correct 
ness of the goods, accord permission by endorsing one copy of the application as 
follows : 

Permitted 
Inspector of Central Excise 

Factory . 
and return to the manufacturer who may hereafter remove the goods out of the 
factory . The original copy of the application will remain on the Inspector s record , 

[ No. 10 EX (MP ) /55.] 
T . C . SETH , Collector 
of Central Excise , Calcutta . 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR 

New Delhi, the 31st August 1955 
S . R . O . 1963 . — Whereas it appears to the Central Government that the employer 
and the majority of employees in relation to the factory of M / s. Guest Keen 
Williams Ltd ., Bhandup Works and Estatc , Wakefield House, Sprott Road , Battard 
Estate , P . O . Box 575 , Bombay - 1, hayc agrced that tho provisions of the Employee s 
Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , should be made applicable to the said 
factory . 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 4 ) of 
section 1 of the Employees Provident Funds Act, 1952 (XIX of 1952 ) , the Central 
Government hereby applies the provisions of the said Act to the said factory . 

(No. PF,57 (6 ) / 55 . ] 
P . N . SHARMA, Under Secy . 


New Delhi, the 1st September 1955 
S . R . O . 1964 . - -Whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the employees 
m the Regional Electrical and Mechanical Workshop , Safdarjung Airport, 
New Delhi, which is a factory belonging to the Government of India , are in 
receipt of benefits substantially similar or superior to the benefits provided under 
the Employees State Insurance Act , 1948 (XXXIV of 1948 ) ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the said 
Act, the Central Government hereby exempts the said factory from all the pro 
visions of the said Act for a further period of one year with effect from the 
28th August, 1955. 

[ No. S.S. 138 (141) .] 
K . N . NAMBIAR , Under Secy . 


- - 


THÉ GAŽETTE OF INDIA , SÉPTÉMBER 10 , 1955 [PART 11 -- Sec . 3 
S . . . - 

- 

= 
New Delhi, the 5th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1965. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 4 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act, 1947 ( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby directs that 
the following amendment shall be made in the notification of the Government 
of India in the Ministry of Labour No . S . R . O , 379 , dated the 25th February, 1952, 
namely : 

In thc Table appended to the said notification in column ( 2 ) headed " Terri 
torial Jurisdiction " - - 
( i) for the words " Orissa and Vindhya Pradesh " occurring in the entry 

against entry 4 " Regional Labour Commissioner (Central) , Dhanbad " 

in column ( 1 ) , the words " and Orissa " shall be substituted ; and 
( ii ) for the words " and Bhopal" occurring in the entry against entry 5 

" Regional Labour Commissioner ( Central ) , Nagpur " in column ( 1 ) , 
the words " Bhopal and Vindhya Pradesh " shall be substituted . 

[ No. LR -1 ( 201).] 
N . C , KUPPUSWAMI, Dy. Secy . 


New Delhi, the 3rd September 1955 
S . R . O . 1966. — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( XIV of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
The Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad in the dispute between the employers in relation 
to Jamadoba Colliery of Messrs. Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd . P . O . Jealgora and 
their workmen , 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

REFERENCE No. 13 OF 1954 

PRESENT 
Shri P . S . Bindra , B . A .LL . B ., Chairman 

PARTIES 
The emplovers in relation to the Jamadoba Colliery of Tata Iron & Steel 
Conipany Limited , P0. Jealgora . 

and 
their workmen . 

APPEARANCES 
For the employers : 
Shri S , S . Mukherjee, B . Sc . B .L . Plcader , 

and 
Shri D . Narsingh , Chief Personnel Omcer , M / s . Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd ., 

P . O . Jcalgora . 
For the workmen ; 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , Advocate , Member, Working Committee , Indian 

National Mine Workers Federation . 
Shri S . K , Bose, Vice President, Bihar Colliery Mazdoor Sangh . 
Shri B . N . Sharma , General Secretary , Tata Collieries Labour Association . 
Shri Shankar Singh , The Tata Collieries Workers Union . 
Shrl S . Das Gupta , Secretary , Bihar Colllery Mazdoor Sangh . 


AWARD 
By Government of India Ministry of Labour, Order No, S . R . O . 3177 dated 28th 
September 1954 , Order No. S . R . O . No. 3532 dated 24th November 1964 
and Order No. SR . O . 599 dated 11th March 1955 and a further Order 
No, LR .2 (6 / 55 dated 22nd July , 1955 , the dispute between the em 
ployers in relation to the Jamadoba Colliery of Tata Yron & Steel Company 
Limited, P .O . Jealgora and their workmen in respect of the following matters has - 
been referred to this Tribunal for adjudication , 


PART II - SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1781 


" ( i) Was the management justified in reducing the number of mine cars 

loaded and despatched , resulting in a cut in the wages of loaders ? If 
not what relief should be allowed to the workers and from what 

date ? 
( ii ) Should the rate for loading mine cars be fixed at Rs. 7 - 3-3 instead of 

the existing rate of Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 ? 
( iii ) Should not the existing rate of load for 81 and 85 C . ft. mine cars be 

increased having regard to the rate recommended by the Conciliation 

Board (Colliery Disputes ) in 1947 for 36 C .ft. tubs ? 
( iv ) Should rations be supplied to all dependants of colliery workers whether 

living in the colliery premises or outside ? 
( v ) Whether the clerks and workers of Foodstuff Section who do not now 

work on Sundays, should get wages for seven days for six days 
work . 


and amended as follows: 

( i) in item (ii ) the words " having regard to the recommendations of the 

Board of Conciliation appointed in 1947” shall be inserted at the 

end ; and 
(ii ) after item No. ( v ) the following shall be inserted , namely : 
“ ( vi) From what date the award on the different issues should be given 

effect to .” 


2 . I take up issue No. ( ii) as amended which reads as follows.- - 
Should the rate for loading mine cars be fixed at Rs. 7 - 3 - 3 instead of the 

existing rate of Rs . 3 - 13 - 9 having regard to the recommendations of 
the Board of Conciliation appointed in 1947 and from what date the 
award in this respect should be given effect to . 


There are two types of mine cars used in this colliery , one has got a capacity 
of 81 c .ft. and the other a capacity of 85 c .ft. if they are loaded upto the water 
level. According to the workmen the rate for machine cut coal should be fixed 
at Rs. 7 - 3 - 3 for loading a mine car having a capacity of 81 c . ft. and filled 
upto the water level. This is claimed on the basis of the Conciliation Board Award 
and with effect from May 1947. The management however contends that the rate 
according to the Conciliation Board Award comes to Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 per mine car 
which should be filled not upto water level but as a heaped spoon and thus giving 
a capacity of 112 c. ft. I got two plans filed by the management marked Exhibits 
82 ( 1 / a ) and 82 ( 1 / b ) which show the condition of the mine car when loaded like 
a heaped spoon . The management expects 112 c .ft . of coal from each mine car 
whether it has got a capacity of 81 c . ft . or 85 c . ft . A perusal of plan Exhibit 82 ( 1 / b ) 
will show that a mine car having a capacity of 85 c . ft. will have to be loaded 
10 . 8 " higher than the water level in order to give 112 c .ft. of coal, while the 
plan Exhibit 82 ( 1 / a ) will reveal that a mine car having a capacity of 81 c .ft. will 
have to be loaded 12 / 4 " above the water level to give 112 c .ft . of coal. Thus 
according to the management the mine car having a capacity of 81 c .ft. should 
be loaded 12 . 4 " above the water level and the mine car having capacity of 85 c. ft. 
shou . d be loaded 10 8 " above water level to give 112 c .ft . of coal per mine car 
irrespective of its size and capacity . The management aver that they are liable 
to pay Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 only for 112 c .ft. of machine cut coal. The management has 
arrived at this figure of Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 as follows. It is stated that the basic rate for 
machine cut coal for a tub having a capacity of 30 c . ft . was Re. 0 -4 - 5 in 1939 

i .e . before the Conciliation Board Award and by adding 50 per cent. to it as 
r ired by the Conciliation Board Award , the new basic comes to Re. 0 - 6 - 73. 
By adding 150 per cent. dearness allowance as required by the Conciliation Board 
Award the rate comes to Rs. 1 - 0 -64 per tub of 30 c .ft . capacity . Calculating at 
this rate the new basic rate for 112 c .ft . comes to Rs. 1 - 8 - 9 . By adding 150 per 
cent, as dearness allowance , it comes to Rs. 3 - 13 - 101 per mine car having a 
capacity of 112 c . ft.: The management has however rounded off the figure of pies 
and is thus paying Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 per mine car with a load of 112 c .ft. In paras. 6 
and 7 of the written statement filed before Shri L . P . Dave marked Exhibit 19. 
it was made clear that the capacity of a mine car was fixed as 1123 c .ft . irres 
pective of the actual measurements of the mine cars and the weight of the 
contents of a mine car was calculated at 2 tons 9 cwts . after giving allowance 
for rejection . It was also pointed out that the basic rate for loading a mine car 


1782 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[ PART II — Sec. 3 


of the said capacity and weight was fixed and paid at Rs. 1 - 0 - 6 prior to Concilia 
tion Board Award . In para . 12 it was further stated as follows : 
" That as has been stated in paragraphs 6 and 7 above, the basic rate for 

a mine car of 112 c . ft. was fixed at Rs. 1 - 0 - 6 which rate was also 
being paid in 1939 . It may also be mentioned that the basic rate 

for loading one 30 c .ft. tub for M . C . C . loaders was fixed at Ra. 0 - 4 - 5 

• only prior to 1947." 
3 . The position was however altered in the second written statement filed by 
the company before me marked Exhibit 43 . In the first place , the capacity of 
the mine cars was reduced from 1121 to 112 c .ft. In para . 11 of the new written 
statement it is stated as follows : 
“ That the basic rate for a mine car of 112 c .ft. was fixed at Rs. 1 - 0 -6 after 

the Conciliation Board s Award . It may also be mentioned that the 
basic rate in 1939 for cutting by pick and filling one 30 c .ft. tub 
was - / 6 / - and that for loading one 30 c . ft. tub with Machine cut 
coal was fixed at As, - / 4 / - only . That as per recommendation of the 
Conciliation Board s Award the above basic rates were increased to 
keep in conformity with the basic rate suggested for a 36 c. ft. tub 
for hand - cut coal and accordingly the new basic rates for 30 c . ft . tub 
for hand cut coal and machine cut coal were fixed at Rs. 0 - 6 - 8 an 
Re. 0 - 4 - 5 respectively . These rates were taken as the basic wag . 
level for 1939 and the increase in the basic and the dearness allowance 
as per recommendation of the Conciliation Board s Award was fixed ." 


. 


4 . Now it is stated that Rs. 1 - 0 -6 was a basic rate for a mine car after the 
Conciliation Board Award , but in the previous written statement it was stated 
that Rs. 1 - 0 -6 was the basic rate prior to Conciliation Board Award . Similarly 
according to the position taken up in the first written statement. the basic rate 
for loading a tub of 30 c . ft. with machine cut coal was Re. 0 - 4 - 5 before the Con 
ciliation Board Award while the position taken up in the new written statement 
is that the basic rate for 30 c . ft. tub for machine cut coal was Re. 0 -4 - 0 before 
the Conciliation Board Award , and that it has now been raised from Re. 0 -4 - 0 to 
Re. 0 - 4 - 5 . Shri F . S . Watcha however stated that Re. 0 -4 - 5 was paid before Con 
ciliation Board Award . Thus the management has been shifting its position and 
did not know what to say . No documentary evidence has been produced to show 
as to what was the rate for loading a mine car with machine cut coal before being 
Conciliation Board Award . I pointedly asked this question from Shri F . S . Watcha , 
Agent of the Sijua group of collieries of Messrs. Tata Iron & Steel Co . Ltd ., and 
he stated that he could not produce any record to show as to what was the rate 
paid for machine cut coal in the Jamadoba colliery in the year 1938 or 1939 or 
for any period upto the Conciliation Board Award which took place in May , 1947. 
He was also asked to produce any record of the company to show that they were 
paying Re. 0 - 4 - 0 per tub of 30 c .ft. capacity before the Conciliation Board Award 
but he could not do so . He stated that development of 17 and 18 seams was 
completed by 1938 and therefore the machines were withdrawn from 17 and 18 
seams in 1938 . After that de -pillaring started in 17 and 18 seams for which 
machine is not used . De -pillaring is done by hand by means of 
pick - axes. He further pointed out that the development of 16 and 16A 
seams started in 1948 and thus the machines were put into use in 1948 . Thus 
the machines were not in use from 1938 to 1948 . He admitted that he did not 
known the rate of the machine cut coal from 1936 to 1938. So what he stated 
about the rate prevailing before 1947 is only hearsay . Shri Watcha however ex 
plained that the machines used for cutting coal just give an under - cut of five 
feet in depth . Then holes are drilled with power drill and the coal is blasted by 
explosives. When the coal is blasted it breaks into small pieces but a few lumps 
may be found above 24 " x 24 " x 24 " . He further stated that the small pieces of 
coal are carried in baskets while big pieces are carried on heads and put into the 
mine cars . Shri G . D . Jha the previous manager further explained that the bi 
pieces measuring 24 " x 24 " x 24 " are left there for packing . In fact such bi 
pieces cannot be carried on head . Shri Jha further explained that when the 
machine is used for cutting coal and the machine makes the under - cut some coal 
is left underneath the under - cut and that coal is cut by one man out of the gang 
who is given a pick - axe to do the job . He pointed out that when the cut is made 
by machine a layer of coal about 3 " to 4 " in thickness is left under the cut 
which is taken out by the pick - axe. This is the only occasion when a pick -axe 
is used because ordinarily in the case of machine cut coal there is only shovelling 
and loading, while in the case of de-pillaring, coal has to be cut by pick - axe be 
fore it is loaded . De-pillaring is certainly more strenuous than the shovelling and 
loading of machine cut coal. 


PART I Sec. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1783 


5 . Shri Jha has however admitted that when conciliation proceedings were 
going on before the Regional Labour Commissioner , he represented the company 
and made a statement on 26th March , 1954 (para . 2 . of Exhibit 81 ) that the basic 
rate in 1938 for machine cut coal was " Rs. 1- 14 - 9 for 81 c .ft. mine car for 112 c. ft. 
of coal" , meaning thereby that the mine car of 81 c . ft . capacity was to be loaded 
like a heaped spoon to give 112 c . ft. of coal and that the rate prior to Conciliation 
Board Award was Rs. 1 - 14 - 9 for 112 c . ft. of coal. On this Agure the workmen 
rely but with this qualification that before the Conciliation Board Rs. 1 - 14 - 9 was 
the rate for machine cut coal for a mine car of 81 c . ft . capacity Alled upto the 
water lovel and not for 112 cift , of coal. On this basis the workmen have claimed 
Rs. 7 - 3 - 3 for 81 c .fl. of coal. They have worked it as follows: 
Original basic rate 

Rs. 1 - 14 - 9 
Add 50 per cent. 

. . Rs. 0 - 15 -4 


. .. 


New basic 
Adding 150 per cent. as Dcarness allowance 


Rs, 2 - 14 - 1 } 
Rs. 2 - 14 - 17 
Rs. 1 - 7 - 2 


Rs. 7 - 3 - 30 


- 


0 . Thus the workmen are claiming Rs. 7 - 3 -37 for loading 81 c . ft . of machine cut 
coal in a mine car. The Conciliation Board Award does not give any formula or 
rate for machine cut cual but has laid down the following principle : 
" We feel it impossible for us to prescribe the rates in detail to cover all 

categories of collieries and all combinations of conditions and wo 
therefore look to the industry to honour this conciliation and adjust 
its piece rates to comply with the general wage levels we have 

indicated . " 
7 . The Conciliation Board Alxed the rates for hand cut coal and the following 
conclusions were drawn : 
" ( 1 ) That the miner , trolleyman , and wagon loader call for preferential 

treatment, in view of the strenuous nature of their employment, often 
under trying conditions. For these categories therefore we recom 

mend an increase in their 1939 basic wage of 50 per rent. 
( 2 ) For all categories including the above we recommend a further increase 

in dearness allowance of 50 per cent, making 150 per cent. In all above 

1939 basic wages , 
Such increase applies to those in the basic wage rate of Rs. 0 to 30 per 

mensem . In wage rates above this, there will be a revision of the 

existing scale of percentage dearness allowance. 
13 ) We have based our calculation of a coal cutter s income on the category 

who cuts (by pick ) and Alis one 36 c . ft. capacity tub from a gallery 
face per shift. The old basic payment for such work is generally , and 
should be universally , Re, 0 - 8 - 0 . The new payment we recommend is : - 

Rs. 6s. ps . 

por tub 
Przasent basic 

0 - 8 - 0 
50 % incrcase on basic 

O - 1 - 0 

- Sama 
New basic 

Om 12 - 0 
150 % dcarness allowance 

T1- 0 

- - - 
Total par tub - - - 


• 


In addition the present 


In addition the present system of cash concession and free rice on attendanre . 

i. e . 32, 4 or 61 annas plus a quarter scer of free rice per day should 
continue. The average cash value of these two is Re , 0 -6 - 0 . 

Rs , a . p . 
Therefore carnings per day arc 

1 - - 11 - - 0 
plus 0 - 6 - - 0 


Total -- 4 - 0 

- - - - - - - - - - 
Accepting the generally agreed figure of 47 days worked per week , the 

weekly income will be Rs. 10 - 9 - 0 . 


1784 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[PART II - SEC 3 


The above proposals are based on the cutting and loading of one 36 c . ft, tub , 

but we are satisfied that given the necessary endeavour on the part 
of the miner , and provision of the requisite facilities by the manage 
ment the vast majority of workers can cut and All 1 } tubs per shift 

and thus realise weekly earnings 1 : 
Rs. 15 for 4 : 7 shifts per week and Rs . 19 - 2 - 0 for 6 . 0 shifts week ." 
8 . The Board came to the conclusion that a coal cutter who cuts by pick could 
easily fill a tub of 36 ( ft . capacity in a shift and opined that they were satisfied 
that given the necessary endeavour on the part of the miner and the provision of 
the requisite facilities by the management, vast majority of workers could cut und 
All 14 tubs per shift . Having come to the above conclusion , they fixed the rate in 
order to give the miner an income of at least Rs, 1 - 14 -0 . Having arrived at the 
Agure of Rs, 1 - 14 -0 and the finding that the old basic rate for payment was Re, 1 - 8 - 0 
per tub , they raised the wage from Re. ()- 8 - 0 to Rs. 1 - 14 - 0 the required minimum 
wage for a miner , by adding 50 per cent. to the basic rate and 150 per cent, as 
dearness allowance . The main decision of the Conciliation Board Award is that 
the miner should earn at least Rs. 1 - 14 - 0 a day and the method usci to arrive at 
that figure is only subsidiary. So what the Conciliation Board lays down is that 
a miner who works on machine cut coal should also be able to earn as much as 
his brother who cuts the coal by pick . According to the workmen a machine cut 
coal miner should be paid Rs. 7 - 3 - 3 for loading 81 c . ft. of coal while according to 
the wages laid by the Conciliation Board Award a coal cutter by pick axe would 
only be earning Rs. 4 - 3 - 6 for cutting and loading 81 c . ft . of coal. There is no 
earthly reason why the same man when he works on machine cut coal should earn 
Rs. 7 - 3 - 34 while when he works on hand cut coal should earn Rs. 4 - 3 - 6 only . This 
anamoly cannot be allowed to exist . The Wages have to be flxed in such a way 
that whether a man works on machine cut roal or hand cut coal, he earns the 
same wages with the same effort. Therefore the Board concluded with the words 
" We therefore look to the industry to honour this conciliation and adjust Its piece 
rates to comply with the general wage levels we have indicated ," Much stress has 
been laid by Shri Sen Gupta on behalf of the union that the formula of adding 50 
per cent to the old basic rate and 150 per cent. as dearness allowance as done in 
the case of hand cut coal must be followed and that the machine cut coal loaders 
should be paid Rs. 7 - 3 - 31 for 81 c . ft . of coal By Resolution No . LR2 ( 103 ) dated 
the 12th May 1947, the Government of India , in the Ministry of Labour appointed 
a Fact Finding Committee to report on the grant of monetary benefits and conces 
siony to collierics workers in the Central Provinces and Berar und in Orissa , on 
lines similar to those granted to colliery workers in Bengal and Blhar as a result 
of the recommendations of the Board of Conciliation (Colliery Dispute ) . The 
committee did not adhere to the formula used by the Board , but instead allowed 
33- 1 / 3 per cent, increase on basic and 100 per cent, dearness allowance. Under 
the circumstances, I think a machine cut coal loader has got no right to get 
Rs. 7 -3 - 37 against Rs. 4 - 3 - 6 earned by his brother who cuts the coal by pick , In 
fact the rates for machine cut coal loaders should be lower because they are seldom 
required to use the pick and they mainly have to do shovelling and loading which 
is not so strenuous as cutting the coal by pick axc. In order to fix the proper 
wage I got a chart | Exhibit 82 ( 5 ) ] prepared by the management regarding the 
average earnings of the miners on attendance. I have taken the figures into con 
sideration from 1st week of June 1953 to third week of June 1954. The average 
earnings were as follows: 


Period 


Machine cut coal 


Hand cut coal 


Ist węck of June 1953 . 

Rs. 249– 6 

Rs, 2 - - 149 
3rd week of Jun . 1953 . 

24 - 240 
3rd weck of December 1953 . 

2 – 2 – 3 

2 - 8 - 0 
Ist week of January 1954 . 

2 - - 3 - 9 
ard week of January 1954 . 

2 — 3 — 3 

2 – 2 – 9 
Ist week of June 1954 . 

2 - 2 - 9 

3 - 6 -- 6 
3rd week of June 1954 

2 - 3 - 3 

3 - 13 - 9 
Total : 15 - 11 - 0 

20 -- I - - 6 
- 

- - - 
9 . The above is not the average of a few miners but of hundreds of miners for each 
week and that for a period of one year. So it fairly gives the average of the income 
now earned by the machine cut coal loaders as compared with coal cutters by pick . 
The earnings of the machine cut coal loaders are defnitely less and they have to 
be raised by 28 per cent. to give them a wage level at par with the coal cutters 
by pick . 


PART II - SEC . 3 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


1785 


10. I have already stated that a mine car having a capacity of 85 c .ft . will have 
to be loaded 10 .8 " higher than the water level and a mine car having a capacity 
of 81 c . ft. will have to be loaded 12 .4 " above the water level to give 112 c. ft . of 
coal. Miners admit that they never gave more that 6 to 8 inches above the water 
level. So in other words, they never gave more than 100 c . ft. of coal per mine 
car. The management though alleged but never maintained the standard of 112 c .ft. 
per mine car and they have made this allegation just to have more coal for the 
sumn of Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 which they paid for one mine car. In order to have 112 c .ft. 
of coal per mine car , they were bound to impose a cut of 10: 7 per cent, as the 
miners never gave more than 100 c .ft. per mine car. The figures supplied by the 
company however indicate that from june 1953 to June 1954 , 102, 953 mine cars 
were raised against which 5 , 004 mine cars were cut, which shows that a cut was 
imposed to the extent of 5 per cent. Had the standard been 112 c . ft. per mine car, 
the cut would have been 10 . 7 per cent. As the cut is only 5 per cent., it shows 
that they kept the standard at about 105 c . ft . of coal per mine car by imposing a 
cut of 5 per cent. on the standard of 105 they obtained 100 c .ft. per mine car . 
which the miners alleged to have given . This means that the present earnings of 
the machine cut local loaders are Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 or 3 - 14 - 0 per mine car for which 
standard of loading is kept at 105 c. ft . At the rate of Rs. 3 - 14 - 0 per mine car of 
105 c . ft., the wages for 81 c .ft . come to Rs, 2 - 15 - 9 . It has already been pointed out 
that the average income of machine cut coal loaders as compared with coal cutters 
by pick has to be raised by 28 per cent., in order to bring them in level with the 
coal cutters by pick . If 28 per cent. is added to Rs, 2 - 15 - 9 it comes to Rs. 3 - 14 - 1, 
roughly say Rs. 3 - 14 - 0 for a mine car carrying 81 c . ft . of coal. Thus according to 
the average earnings of the coal cutters by pick the machine cut coal loaders should 
be given Rs. 3 - 14 - 0 for a mine car having a capacity of 81 c . ft . and loaded upto 
the water level. Strangely enough the management also arrived at the figure of 
Rs. 3 - 13- 10 after adjusting the wages according to the Conciliation Board Award . 
The only difference is that they want to pay this amount for 112 c . ft . instead of 
81 c .ft. There is nothing on record to prove that they have been getting 112 c . ft . 
per mine car . On the other hand , the records produced by the company show that 
the company never obtained 112 c . ft . per mine car and that when the cut was 
maximum from June 1953 to June 1954 (5 per cent. ) they kept the standard at 
105 c .ft . per mine car. Prior to this they had kept the standard still lower because 
in the year 1951 the cut was only 0 . 5 per cent. and in the year 1952 the cut was 
only 06 per cent. while in the year 1953 it was 2 per cent. Thus gradually the 
management has been demanding more and more coal from the same mine car 
and during the period for which I have calculated the wages ( June 1953 to June 
1954 ) they imposed a cut of 5 per cent. It appears that the figure of Rs. 3 - 13 - 103 
was rightly calculated by the management after the Conciliation Board Award for 
a mine car of 81 c .ft. capacity , but they have however demanded more and more 
coal from the mine cars of the same capacity by imposing cuts , which they gradual 
ly raised from 0 :5 per cent. to 5 per cent. The management has not yet reached 
10 per cent. to justify their standard of 112 c . ft . It is curious that the same 
management has been treating the same mine cars as having a capacity of 78 c. ft. 
instead of 112 c . ft. for the purpose of paying the charges for the load . 


11. Under the circumstnces, I am of opinion that according to the Conciliation 
Board Award the rate for machine cut coal comes to Rs. 3 - 14 - 0 per mine car of 
81 c .ft , capacity loaded upto water level, so that it may carry 81 c . ft. of coal pro 
duct and not 112 c . ft. I fix this rate with effect from 1st June 1947 as according 
to the Conciliation Board Award the management ought to have paid at this rate 
after the Conciliation Board Award . The management has been paying Rs. 3 - 13 - 9 
for a mine car keeping the standard at about 105 c . ft. So they will have to pay 
Re. 1 - 0 - 0 more , for each mine car raised since 1st June 1947 to clear all the 
arrears . The management has already filed statements showing the number of 
mine cars raised from 6th November 1951. Roughly the management will have to 
pay about Rs. 7 ,000 per mensem and in case the earlier records are not available , 
the company will pay at the flat rate of Rs. 7 ,000 per mensem for the period for 
which records are not available . Otherwise the company will pay at the rate of 
Re. 1 - 0 - 0 per mine car for all the mine cars raised since 1st June 1947 till the new 
system of loading the mine cars upto 81 c. ft. is put into force . The arrears have 
to be paid to the miners who actually worked in those days and therefore the 
management will issue notices to all the miners after working out the amounts due 
to them . The notices . to workmen who are not now working be issued by register 
ed post asking them to come and take their arrears. Notices be also published in 
one Hindi, one Bengali and one English paper to be selected by the workmen and 
that at least for four weeks having two insertions per week . The miners will be 
given one year to collect their arrears . The arrears which are not claimed for 
one year from the date of the publication of the notices will form a fund , which 


1786 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[PART 11 - SEC. 3 


will be placed at the disposal of a co - operative credit society to be formed under 
the Bihar and Orissa Co -operative Societies Act 1935 . This society will advance 
loans to meet the daily needs of the workmen working in the Jamadoba Colliery . 
The workmen whose names stand on the books of the Jamadoba colliery at the 
time of publication of this award will automatically become the members of this 
society without making any contribution . Even if 10 per cent. of the workmen 
fail to claim their arrears, it will create a fund of about Rs. 70, 000 to Rs. 75 , 000. 
This will save them from the clutches of the unscrupulous money - lenders who 
sometimes charge interest @ one anna per rupee per week i .e . 25 per cent. per 
mensem . A committee will be formed by the management consisting of one mem 
ber appointed by the management, one member elected by the workmen of the 
Jamadoba colliery and the Regional Labour Commissioner , Dhanbad . It will be 
the function of the committee to see that the arrears are properly worked out and 
disbursed to proper claimants. The Committee will also look to the formation of 
a co - operative credit society and transfer of the unclaimed arrears to the fund of 
the society . If for any reason , the unclaimed arrears do not exceed Rs. 5 ,000 , then 
the said committee will spend the money for the recreation of the workmen work 
ing in Jamadoba colliery . In case of difference of opinion between the members 
of the committee , the decision of the majority will prevail. I 
12 . Now I take up point No. 1 which runs as follows: 
" Was the management justified in reducing the number of mine cars loaded 

and despatched , resulting in a cut in the wages of loaders ? If not , 
what relief should be allowed to the workers and from what date ? , 
having regard to the recommendations of the Board of Conciliation 

appointed in 1947." 
13 . The case of the workmen is that the management installed a coal washing 
plant in October 1952 and since the working of this plant the machine cut coal 
miners are noticing to their great distress that the mine cars filled by them 
underground are not paid for properly and their number is reduced without 
assigning any reason . They further state that the number of mine cars is cut 
so recklessly , that it has reached to the extent of 20 per cent though previously 
such a cut was limited to one per cent. It is urged by the workmen that there 
is no justification for such a cut and they should be paid for all the mine cars 
cut since the introduction of the coal washing plant in October 1952 . The learned 
counsel for the union urged that cut in mine cars has come to 25 per cent though 
previously it used to be one per cent. This is however against the facts and 
figures, which are given below : 


Year 


No. of mine cars raised 


Mine cars cut 


Percentage 


0 .6 % 


81,935 
96 ,800 
46 , 513 


539 
1949 
3392 


1952 
1953 

1951 
Jan . to June 
July 1954 to March 1955 
( Except August, Septem - 
ber , October & November 
for which figurcs 
are not available ) 


47 ,789 


2468 


6 % 


From the above it will be evident that the cut has been fluctuating from 0 .6 
per cent to 5 and 6 per cent and it was never 25 per cent as contended by the 
learned counsel for the workmen . 

14 . I may also point out that the proportion in the number of mine . cars cut 
did not increase from 1952 when the coal washing plant was installed but is 
increased from 18th December 1953. In this connection , there is a letter marked 
Exhibit 34 dated 21st December 1953 from the Superintendent of Collieries to 
the manager of the Jamadoba colliery in which he pointed out that the position 
of coal stock as compared with the previous week had further deteriorated as 
the shortage had been allowed to increase by about 91 tons. He was also required 
to take steps so that shortage is made good as quickly as possible . It was further 
remarked as follows: 
“ We had instructed you to adopt a new system of reporting raising from 

your colliery . This system was explained to you in detail and we 
shall thank you to please let us know whether this system has been 

put into force and from what date ." 
A reply to this letter is marked Exhibit 35 dated 24th December 1953 in which 
the Manager stated that as instructed by the Superintendent of Collieries he 


1787 


- - - - 


- -- PART II - SEC. 3 ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 

- -- - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . - - - - -- - -- - 
arted the new system with effect from 15th December 1953. Shri Jha who was 
- - the then manager was questioned about it and he stated that no new system 
was adopted but modification was made in the method of reporting to make it 
more uniform . He stated that instead of using the word cut for underloading 
they used the word adjusted . This however does not appear to be the true 
state of affairs, as the percentage of cuts steadily incrcased from December 1958 . 
I examined Shri F . S . Watcha, Agent of the Tatas collieries as a party on 21st 
June 1955 ( Exhibit 73 ) . He stated that he could not tell as to what is the 
procedure and basis for cutting down the number of mine cars everyday . When 
Shri Watcha could not give any information on the subject, I examined Shri 
Singhal (Exhibit 74 ) the present Manager of the colliery . He stated that there 
was no record of underloading prior to his taking charge and that he introduced 
the present system of checking the underloading since July 1954. I however need 
not go into these details because my ultimate conclusion is that the total cut 
imposed is justified though the manner of distribution of the cuts among several 
workmen was impropcr. I am of opinion that the cuts were justified because it 
is the case of the workmen that they loaded the mine cars upto a height of 6 " to 
8 " only above the water level. Shri A . N . Sircar an overman was examined in 
this respect and he stated that the cutting of the mine cars was not done by the 
munshis underground but by the Assistant Managers on the following day and 
that the miners came to know of it only on the date of payment. He states that 
since his appointment in 1936 the mine cars are loaded 6 to 8 inches above the 
water level and that even now they are loaded in the same way . Shri K . B . 
Sinha who is a munshi working underground corroborates Shri Sircar in this 
respect and says that they have been giving the loads about 8 inches above the 
top level of the mine cars at the loading line, and that no cut for bad loading 
was imposed by the munshis underground but it was done by the Assistant 
Managers in the office . At any ratc , according to the evidence produced by the 
workmen they have been loading mine cars only to the cxtcnt of 6 to 8 inches 
above the water leve) . The management fixed the capacity of mine cars at 
112 c . ft. and according to them they have been paying for the mine cars taking 
their capacity as 112 c . ft. In order to have a 112 c . ft of coal, a mine car of 81 c . ft. 
capacity must be loaded 12. 4 " above the water level while a mine car of a 
capacity of 85 c . ft. must be loaded 10 .8 " above the water level as will be evident 
from the plans marked Exhibit 82 (1a ) & 82 ( 11b ) . Against a load of 10 .8 to 12 ,4 
inches above the water level they have been giving a load from 6 to 8 inches 
above the water level . In order to give 112 c. ft. of coal a mine car must be 
loaded 10 to 12 inches above the water level as indicated above, failing which 
there must be shortage of 10 per cent. So keeping the standard of the mine cars 
at 112 c . ft, the management were justified in cutting the number of mine cars 
upto 10 per cent. I have however held that they raised the standard upto 
105 c .ft only and as the miners were giving only 100 c . ft, per mine car, the cut 
upto 5 per cent was justified , though as a whole it comes to much less . I have 
ordered the management to pay Rs. 1 - 0 - 0 per mine car as arrears holding that 
the standard of the management was 105 c. ft per mine car . So according to 
this award they will bç paying full wages at the present rate for each mine 
car carrying 100 c. ft of coal. Since the miners have not been giving 105 c .ft of 
coal per mine car but only 100 c. ft per mine car, the cut imposed by the manage 
ment was justified and the workmen are not entitled to any sum , on account 
of cutting the number of the mine cars . 

15 . I have stated that though thc cuts in the number of mine cars were justl 
fled , the manner in which they were imposed was not proper . I have gone 
thoroughly into this matter and have found that the management instead of getting 
the cuts imposed at the working face have been imposing the cuts after working 
out the shortage in the stock , Shri Watcha was cxamined as R . W . 2 on 23rd June 
1955 when he stated as follows : 
* Thus there are two systems of working shortage but the uniform method 

in the coalfield is the one which is based on stock measurement, and 
despatch hereform . So in case ( considering the number of mine cars 
received ) there is shortage in stock , it must be due to underloading . 
The method of stock measurement is more reliable than the figures 

worked out from the reports of the munshis ." 
Shri Watcha had on a previous hearing explained that when the mine cars reach 
the top they are automatically tilted and the coal goes into the bunker of the 
coal washing plant where it is crushed and washed . After the coal is washed 
by the washing plant and the rejection is separated the coal is loaded in wagons. 
The wagons move on to the wehig - bridge , from where , the weight of coal is 
calculated . From 112 c . ft of coal the management expects 11. 2 c . ft as rejection , 
so they are left with 100. 8 c . ft of despatchable coal for every 112 c. ft of coal 
coming from underground . The weight of such coal comes to tons 9 ( wts . 
After the running of the washing plant for one year, this average has been 


1788 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 


[PART IIB 


reduced to 2 tons 8 cwts , from 2 tons 9 cwts . He also pointed out that ordinarily 
42 c . ft of loose coal make one ton while 32,4 c . ft of rejection make a ton . On 
the basis of these figures the shortage of coal is worked out from the coal des 
patched by wagons where it is weighed . This system has been a source of a 
great trouble and bickering between employer and the employees. The employees 
maintain that by working of the washing plant, the rejection is much more and 
that the deficiency is made good by cutting the number of the mine cars . 
In order to verify this fact I asked the Chief Inspector of Mines in India to 
depute some officer to report about the working of the washing plant. The report 
made by Shri S . L . Chakraverty, Inspector of Mines , after getting the plant worked 
in his presence , has been filed and is marked Exhibit 84 . He was examined as 
a witness . As a result of his inspection , he is of the opinion that the rejection 
was 11. 4 per cent, which is almost the same as stated by the management. The 
management however put the figure at 11 .2 instead of 11.4 but the difference is 
negligible . In order to avoid further dispute it is necessary that the mine cars 
should be loaded in future at the water level so that minc cars having a capacity 
of 81 c .ft carrying 81 c . ft of coal product and the mine cars having a capacity of 
85 c . ft carrying 85 c .ft of coal product (not despatchable coal) . In the Concilia 
tion Board Award it was opined as follows in para 19 : 


" Our view is that the management must insist on securing such a standard . . 

of tub loading that when full tubs reach the surface the contents 
are level with the top of the tub . This is the unit for which payment 
is made, and variation either up or down can only lead to friction . 


The experience however shows that even the above standard is not free from 
dispute and in my humble opinion the mine cars should be loaded upto the water 
level at the working face. No part of the mine car should be empty below the 
water level. In order to achieve this object some portions of coal may protrude 
above the water level, they may do so but there should be no space vacant below 
the water level. The mine cars should be checked at the working face before 
they are pulled up . If there is any shortage, the workmen should be asked to 
make up the shortage, and if still they do not make up the shortage, the cut 
should be exercised , and the miner informed . No mine car should be pulled up . 
without intimating the cut to the miners . The practice of intimating the cuts 
later on is to be given up . 

16 . ( iii) Should not the existing rate of load for 81 and 85 c . ft mine cars be 
increased , having regard to the rate recommended by the Conciliation Board 
( Colliery Disputes ) in 1947 for 36 c . ft tubs ? 

At present the management is paying for the load at the rate prescribed by 
the Conciliation Board Award for 36 c . ft tub but it has been all along treating 
the mine cars as having a capacity of 78 c. ft for the purpose of load . The mine 
cars of 81 c. ft and 85 c .ft were treated as having a capacity of 112 c .ft so far as: 
the obtaining of coal was concerned but the same mine cars have been treated 
as having a capacity of 78 c. ft for the purposes of paying the load at the rate 
prescribed by the Conciliation Board Award . It is regrettable that a concern of 
such a high standing should take recourse to such an unfair labour practice . 
There is no earthly justification for treating the same mine car , as having a 
capacity of 112 c .ft for one purpose and 78 c . ft capacity for another purpose, 
The management is now willing to pay all the arrears at the rate prescribed for 
36 c .ft tub by the Conciliation Board Award . So far , the payment has been 
made at the rate of 78 c . ft per mine car, instead of 112 c . ft per mine car. I 
have however held that the standard exercised by the management never exceeded 
105 c . ft per mine car, so they are liable for load @ 27 c. ft ( 105 – 78 – 27 ) per mine 
car raised since 1 - 6 - 1947 . The management is directed to pay these arrears to 
the workmen who loaded these mine cars and the procedure of payment will 
be the same as prescribed in case of the arrears of loading the mine cars . The 
unclaimed arrears will also be passed to the Cooperative Credit Society as indi 
cated above. The same committee will act regarding the arrears for load as well, 
17 . There is also a minor dispute about the measuring of the load . According 
to the workmen , load is counted from the bumpers of the mine cars instead of 
centre of the mine cars but according to the management the load is counted 
from the centre of each mine car. There is however not sufficient material on 
the record to prove that the management has been measuring the load from the 
bumpers , instead of the centre of the mine cars . Anyhow from the date of en 
forcement of this award they are directed to calculate the load from the centre 
of each mine car and not from the bumpers . 

18 . As regards issue No. 4 regarding rations to be supplied to the dependants of 
the colliery wrokers and issue No, 5 regarding the payment of wages for 7 days 
for working 6 days a week , to the clerks and workers of the foodstuff section 


PART III SEC . 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1960 


1789 


please see my award in Reference No. 16 of 1954. For the reasons given therein 
I hold that rations will be supplied to all workmen and their dependants irrespec 
tive of the fact as to whether they llve on the colliery premises or not. A work 
-man will include his non -working wife , children and parents if dependent upon 
him and living with him . A father will only be entitled if he is too old to work 
and is dependent on his son for his livelihood . 

The clerks and workers of the Foodstuff Section , who do not work on Sundays 
will get wages for Sunday as well instead of 6 days wages per week . 

19 . There is no other dispute and I pass my award accordingly . 


Sd./ - P . S . BINDRA, 


No. LR .2 (53 ) / 54 .3 


S . R . O . 1967. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( XIV of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , in the dispute between the employers in relation 
to the following collieries namely , Jamadoba 6 and 7 pits, Diagwadlh , Sijua , 
Bhelatand and Malkera Choitodih , of Tata Iron and Steel Co. Ltd . and their 
respective workmen . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL AT DHANBAD 

Reference No. 16 , of 1954 . 

PRESENT : 
Shri P . S . Bindra , B . A .LL .B ., - - Chairman . 

PARTIES : 
The employers in relation to the collierics ( Jamadoba 6 and 7 pits, Digwadih , 
Sijua, Bhelatand, and Malkera Choitodih ) of Tata Iron and Steel Company 
Limited , 

and 
Their workmen 


APPEARANCES ; 
For the employers : 

Shri S . S . Mukherjea , B . Sc . B . L ., Pleader , 

Shri D . Narsingh , Chief Personnel Officer, Tata Iron and Steel Co . Ltd . 
For the workmen : 
Shri D . L . Sen Gupta , Advocate , Member , Working Committee , Indian 

National Mine Workers Federation , 
Shri S . K . Bose, Vice President, Bihar Colllery Mazdoor Sangh , 
Shri B . N . Sharma, General Secretary , Tata Collierles Labour Association . 
Shri Shankar Singh , The Tata Collleries Workers Union , 

and 
Shri S . Das Gupta , Secretary, Bihar Colllery Mazdoor Sangh . 


AWARD 
By Government of India , Ministry of Labour, Order No. S . R . O . 3385 dated 2nd 
November 1954 and by a subsequent Order No, S . R . O . 599 dated 11th March 1956 , 
the dispute between the employers in relation to the collleries of Tata Iron and 
Steel Co. Ltd , specified in Schedule L thereof and their workmen in respect of the 
following matters has been referred to this Tribunal: 
" 7 . Should rations be supplied to all dependants of colliery workers whether 

living in the colliery premises or outside. 
2 . Whether the clerks and workers of Foodstuff Section who do not now work 
on Sundays should get wages for seven days for six days work ." 

SCHEDULE I 
1, Jamadoba 6 and 7 pits 
2 . Digwadih . 
3 . Sijua . 
4 . Bhelatand . 
5 . Malkera Choitodih 


1790 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1965 


(PART 1- SEC. 


2 . Usual notices were issued to the parties . The written statements were Alled 
by the parties during the time of my predecessor Shri L . P . Dave, but as the 
reference was made to me afresh , I again gave them an opportunity to file fresh 
written statements but none of the parties, filed a fresh written materncnt. With 
the consent of the parties , the evidence was recorded in Reference No. 13 of 1954 
as the present two disputes were also included in Reference No. 18 of 1954 . 


3 . The case of the union is that the rations are not supplied to all dependants 
of colliery workers and that those workmen who did not live on the colliery pre 
mises are also deprived of the rations. The counsel for the management drew 
my attention to the Bihar Colliery Labour Foodgrains Rationing Order , 1952 dated 
2nd August 1952 published in the Blhar Gazette Extraordinary dated 11th August 
1952 . 

4 . It is argued that on the basis of the above notification , that they could supply 
rations to those dependants who live at the colliery premises or in a place recognis 
ed for the purpose by the Government and that they could not supply rations to 
workmen or their dependants who do not live on the colliery premises . It was 
further argued that under the said notification , dependants only included the wife . 
and children of the workmen . The Bihar Colliery Labour Foodgrains Rationing 
Order 1952 was issued under Section 3 of the Essential Supplies ( Temporary 
Powery ) Act 1946 . The Essential Supplies ( Temporary Powers ) Act 1946 has 
expired on 26th day of January 1955 and now an Ordinance is in force which is 
known as The Essential Commodities Ordinance 1955. This Ordinance does not cover 
the foodgrains. So there is no prohibition about the foodgrains, and it cannot 
prevent the present management from supplying rations to the workmen who do 
not live on the colliery premises. Hence I am of opinion , that the management 
should supply rations to the workmen and their dependants irrespective of the 
fact as to whether they live at the colliery premises or not. 

5 . So far as the question of dependents is concerned , according to the workmen , 
the parents , brothers, sisters , and nephews residing with a worker and depending 
upon him should also be supplied with rations. Shri R . N . Sharma was examined 
on behalf of the management who stated that he was working in this Arm since 
1949 and since that time the number of dependants is limited to five including the 
worker , and that this practice is still going on . He further stated that dependents 
include the children of the workmen who were not working, his wife not working , 
and widowed mother iſ not working . I do not think that there is any justification 
for including sisters, nephews and brothers of a workman but like widowed 
mother , an aged father who is unable to work and dependant upon the workman 
for his livelihood should also be included . So for the purposes of supplying 
rations a workman will include his wife , children , mother and father , if they are 
not working, and dependent upon him . A father will only be entitled to rations 
in case he is too old to work and is dependent upon his son for his livellhood . It 
is obligatory that the dependents must live with the workmen before they claim 
rations and they must really be dependent upon the workman . 

The question of cash concessions cannot be gone into because it is not covered - 
by the reference. 

Issue No. 2 
" Whether the clerks and workers of Foodstuff Section who do not now work 

on Sundays should get wages for seven days for six days work . " 
The case of the workmen is that the Foodstuff section of the colliery wası 
started round about 1942 and since that time, the members of the foodstuff sectior 
were retained on Sundays and paid for 7 days a week . It is further stated tha ? 
since 7th March 1954 the conditions of service of the workomen employed in food 
stuff section have been changed by cutting one day s wages in every weck . Nor - 
the workmen are employed for six days a week and paid for six days. The 
do not work for Sundays and they are not paid for Sundays. The workmen claim 
seven days wages for a week . 

It is stated on behalf of the company, that in the rice department of the 
different collleries of the company there are cash memo counters and issue 
counters and normally each cash memo counter is manned by one cash memo 
clerk and the issue counter , by one issue clerk and two rice mazdoors . It is 
further stated that the duties of the cash memo clerks are to issue cash memos 
to workers on receipt of the price of the rations. The duties of the issue clerk 
and the rire mazdoors are to issue rations to the workmen against the cash memos 

It is also stated that the rations were issued from Monday to Thursday ani 


PART 11 SEC. 3 ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1958 


1791 


the rest of the week days and were devoted to checking and verification of the 
rash memos with the issue sheets . It is also explained toat the cash memo clerks 
were working from 7 a .m . to 12 noon on Sundays and they were paid a full 
day s wage which is meant for 8 hours. It is further contended on behalf of the 
company that under the orders of the Inspector of Mines they had to follow and 
observe the provisions of Mines Act 1952, and so they were required to grant one 
day s rest in a week . Thus actual issue of rations was confined to Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday and the checking and verlication to Friday 
and Saturday and Sunday was treated as a rest day . Thus the case of the com 
pany is that the workmen work for 6 days and they are paid for 6 days. The 
management examined Shri R . N . Sharma who is the Manager of the Digwadih 
colllery since November 1952 . He has stated that when the rice department used 
ILO work on Sundays they were being paid overtime and now as no work is done 
on Sundays they are paid for 6 days in a week . He further stated that the rice 
Clerks are neither working nor asked to work beyond their working hours. In 
cross - examination he admitted that the system of issue of rations before stopping 
work on Sundays was the same as it is now . He also admitted that the staff re 
mains the same and there was no increase in the staff. He further admitted t at 
so far as the number of workmen is concerned , it is almost the same before and 
after the stopping of the work on Sundays. He further admitted that after stop 
ping the work on Sundays, ration godown workers protested saying that they have 
to put in more work . He further stated that now an amendment of the Mines 
Rules had been made and the ration staff is no longer governed by the Mines Act, 
but after the amendment they have not reverted to the old system of taking 
work on Sundays. From the above evidence of the company s own manager , it 
will be evident that the work load is the same and the same staff has to cope wit ı 
it within six days instead of 7 days. Hence there is clearly an increase in the 
work load and thus the members of the staff of the rationing departments are en 
titled to 7 days wages for working 6 days a week . They will have Sunday as 
rest day . 
I pass my award accordingly . 

P . S . BINDRA , Chairman , 
Central Government s Industrial Tribunal, 

Dhanbad. 
The 8th August, 1955 . 

[No. LR.2 (53 ) / 34 -1.] 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 6th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1988. Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an indus 
trial dispute exists between the employers in relation to Messrs. Travancore 
Mineral Concern No. 1, Chavara , and their workmen regarding the matters 
specified in the Schedulc hcreto annexed ; 

And whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7 and clause 
( c ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, (XIV 
of 1947) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri K . N . Kunjukrishna Pillal, Industrial Tribunal, Trivandrum , shall 
be the sole Member and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said 
Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Is the Travancore Mineral Workers Union justified in demanding that 

the 128 workers recruited for work in June 1955 should be dis 
charged ? Is the General Manager of the Travancore Mineral 
Concern No. 1 bound to discharge them as demanded by the said 

union . 
( 2 ) Is the decision to recruit workers through the Employment Exchange 

wrong ? Is the union within its rights in objecting to this proce 

dure ? 
( 3 ) Are there past workers of the concern entitled to preference when 

workers are to be recruited ? If so , is a list of such tra S 
available ? If not, is it possible to prepare the list of such wen & 
according to length of service with reasonable accuracy ? 

[No. LR .2 ( 58 ) / 55 ,3 


1792 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA , SEPTEMBER 10 , 1955 ( PART II- SEC. 3 
- . 

S .R . O . 1969. - Whereas by an Order of the Government of India in the Minis 
try of Labour No . LR . 2 ( 58 ) / 55 , dated the 6th September, 1955. an Industrial 
dispute between Messrs. Travancore Mineral Concern No. 1, Chavara , and their 
workmen has been referred to an Industrial Tribunal for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section (3 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (XIV of 1947 ) , the Central 
Government hereby prohibits the continuance of the strike in existence in 
Messrs. Travancore Mineral Concern No. 1 , Chavara . 

[No. LR .2 ( 68 ) / 65 . ] 
- - P . S. EASWARAN . Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF INFORMATION AND BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 1st September 1955 
S . R . O . 1970 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section of the Cinematograph Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952) . the Central 
Government hereby directs that the film entitled " Law Vs. Billy the Kid " , and -- 
its trailer produced by Columbia Pictures Corporation , U . S . A . shall be deemned 
to be uncertifled films in the whole of India . 

[No. 8 / 17 /55-FC . 
8 . R . O . 1971. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 3 of the 
Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1951 read with section 3 of the Cinematograph 
Act, 1952 (XXXVII of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby appoints Prof. N . K . 
Sidhanta , Vice - Chancellor of the Calcutta University , as a member of the Central 
Board of Film Censors with immediate effort vice Srimati Sucheta Kripalani 
resigned 

[No, 11/ 2 / 55 - FC .) 


ORDER 

New Delhi- 2 , the 7th September 1955 
S . R . O . 1972 . - In pursuance of clause 2 of the directions issued under the pro 
visions of each of the enactments specified in the First Schedule to the Order of 
the Government of India in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
No. S . R .O . 945 , dated the 28th April, 1955 the Central Government with the pre 
vious approval of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay hereby certifies the Alms 
specified in column 2 of the schedule hereto annexed , in all their language 
versions, to be of the description specified against each in the corresponding 
entry of column 5 of the said schedule . 

SCHEDULE 


Serial | 
No. 


Title of the 

Alm 


í Name of the 

producer 


Source of 

supply 


Whether a scientific film or 

film intended for cducational 
purposcs or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
Or a documentary filin 


Govt. of India , 
Films Division , 

Bombay . 


Film dealing with news 

and current events . 


i | Indian News 1 Govt . of India , 
Review No. 360 . Filmag Division , 

Bombay . 
Right Men for New Theatres 
the job Ltd ., for Govern 

ment of India 
Films Division , 
Bombay . 


do , 


Documentary film 


+ 


- 


- 


[No. 1 / 18 / 55 - F . App / 48. ] 
D . KRISHNA AYYAR , Under Secy . 


- 


INIC ) IN INDIA DY TIC MANAGER , GOVT . OF INDIA PRESS , NEW DELHI 
^ ^ ) . OLISITD BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS, DELHI, 1985 


