< fueto to 222 


REGISTERED No. D . An 


भारतको राजपत्र 
The Gazette of India 


STATT Tirforce 
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY 


38 ] 
NO 38 ] 


of fast, f ITT, PATER 23, 1967 , 976 1, 1889 
NEW DELHI, SATURDAY , SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 


इस भाग में भिम पष्ठ संख्या दी जाती है जिससे कि यह प्रलग संकलन के रूप में रखा जा सके । 
Soparato paging is riven to this part in order that it may bo Alod 

as a separato compliation . 


मोटिस 

NOTICE 
a f ATT ALTIT TYT 25 T6 1967 * 4Tfva fi Tu : - - 

The undermentioned Gazettes of India Extraordinary were published up to the 7th September , 
1967 - 


Issue 
No. 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


415 


$ . O . 3083, dated 318t August , Ministry of Com 
1967 . 

merce . 
S . O . 3084 , da* ed 31st August, Do. 

1967. 


416 S .O . 3085, dated 31st August , 

1967 . 


Do. 


Amendment to notification No . 

771, dated 6th March , 1965 . 
The Export of Fish and Fish 
Products ( Inspection ) Amend 
ment Rulcs, 1967. 
Appointing the 1st day of Sep 

tember , 1963 As the date cn 
which the Standards of 
Weights and Measures (Exten 
sion to Kohima and Mokok 
chung Districts ) Act, 1967 
shall come into force in the 
district of Kohiola and 
Mokokchung in the state of 

Nagaland , 
Permitting the continuance of use 

in the districts of Kohima and 
Mokokchung in the State of 
Nagaland for a period of two 
years from the ist September , 
1967 of any weight or measure 
which was in use immediately 
before that date . 


S .O . 2086, da ed 318t August, 

1967 . 


Do. 


( 3371 ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


ssue 


No. and Date 


Issued by 


Subject 


No. 


417 


9 . 0 . 3087, dated 31st August, Ministry of Commerce 

1967 . 


Directing the East India Jute 
and Hessian Exchange Ltd . , 
Calcutta to suspend entering 
Into forward contracts in jute 
goods other than (1) transferable 
specific delivery contracts and 
(ii) non - transferable - specific 
delivery contracts for a further 
period of seven days with 
effect on and from the Ist 
Scptember , 1967. 


418 


Do . 


5 .0 . 3088 , dated Ist September, 

1967. 


Direction that the Order No . 

S . O . 1196 , dated 13th April , 
1966 shall continue to have 
effect for a further period upto 
Igth September , 1967. 
The Governor of the States of 
Assam and Nagaland . (Alloca 
tion of Emoluments and Allow - , 
ances ) Order, 1967. 


419 


S . O . 3089, dated 2nd Septein - Ministry of Home 
ber , 1967 . 

Affairs . 


420 S . O . 3030 , datci 2nd Sep - Election Commission , Amendments in notification No . 
tember , 1967. 

India . 

508/UP/67, dated Iith 

January , 1967. 
421 S . O . 3091, dated 2nd Sep - Ministry of Industrial Board ofManagement for the M /8 . 
tember , 1967 

Development and Diwan Sugar and General 
Company Affairs . Mills , Private Limited , Sakhoti 

Tanda, District Meerut. 


422 S . O . 3092 , dated 4th Septcm Ministry of Home Constitution ofan Advisory Board 
ber , 1967. 

Affairs . 

for the purposes of the Preven 

tive Detention Act , 1950 . 
423 S . O . 3200 , dated 5th Septem - Ministry of Finance Notifying (1) the Industrial Credit 
ber, 1967. 

and Investment Corporation 
of India Limited , Bombay and . 
( 11 ) the Gujarat Cooperative 
Housing Finance Society 
Limited , Ahmedabad for the 
purpose of the Income-tex 

Act , 1961. 
124 S . O . 3201, date 16th Septem - Central Board of Corrigendum to S . O . 846 , dated 
ber , 1967. 

Direct Taxes . Toth March , 1967 . 
425 $. O . 3202 , dated 6th Septem - Ministry of Com . Further amendment to the Ex 
ber , 1967. 

merce . 

ports (Control) Order , 1962. 
426 $ .0 . 3203, dated 7th Septem 

Further amendment to the Ex 
ber , 1967. 

ports ( Control) Order , 1962 . 


Do . 


कार लिखे असाधारण राजपत्रों की प्रतियां प्रकाशन प्रबन्धक , सिविल लाइन्स , दिल्ली के नाम 
मांगपत्र भेजने पर भेज दी जाएंगी । मांगपत्र प्रबन्धक के पास इन राजपनों के जारी होने की तारीख 

10 FIT À 17 A UTEUI 


Copies of the Gazettes Extraordinary mentioned above will be supplied on 
Indent to the Manager of Publications, Civil Lines , Delhi, Indents should be 
submitted so as to reach the Manager within ten days of the date of issue of 
these Gazettes , 


Sec. 3( tl) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3373 


. 


HTTO IL 3_ Jeau ( li) 

PART II -- Section 3 - Sub -section ( 1 ) 
( रक्षा मंत्रलय को छोड़कर ) भारत सफर में मंत्रालयों और ( संघ क्षेत्र प्रशासन को छोड़कर ) 

tala aristot 211HPI (97 Tg farin araar dit 94710 
Statutory orders and notification : 118d by the Ministries of the Govern 

ment of India (other than the Mlaistry of Defence) and by Central 
Authorities (other than the Administration of Union Territories ) 


ELECTION COMMISSION , INDIA 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
S . O . 3312 . - In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on the 
16th August, 1967 by the High Court of Rajasthan , Jodhpur in Election Petition 
No 19 of 1967. 
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

JUDGMENT 
Narain Prakash s / o Shri Nandram , r / o Bada Beda Dhanna Talal, Tonk (Rajasthan ) 

Versus 
1. Jamna Lal of Tonk 
2 . Keshar Lal of Dhanna Talal, Tonk 
3. Chouthmal of Bandar Sindri 
4 . Ram Gopal of Tonk 
5. Ram Nath of Tonk . 

ELECTION PETITION No. 19 OF 1967 
u / ss 80 , 80 - A and 81 of the Representation of People Act of 1951 
Date of Judgment; August 10, 1967. 

PRESENT 

THE HON BLE JUSTICE L . N . CHHANGANI 
Mr. S . N . Bhargava — For the Applicant 

Mr. M . C . Dhoot -- for the non -applicant No . 1 
By the Court 

This is an Election Petition by Narain Prakash , a defeated candidate for setting 
aside the election of Shri Jamna Lal, Respondent No . 1 , to the Lok Sabha from 
the Tonk Parliamentary Constituency in the last General Elections. 

The only ground on which the Election of the Respondent No. 1 was challenged 
was that the Election Commission committed an error in interfering with the 
discretion exercised by the Returning Omcer granting a free symbol to the 
Respondent and allotting him the symbol of the Swatantra Party . It was con 
tended that on account of the change of the symbol by the Election Commission 
the results of the Election were materially affected . It was alleged that there 
was a breach of an order made under the provisions of the Act and the breach 
having affected results of the election , the election deserves to be set aside 

The petition was opposed by the Respondent No. 1 and it was contended 
Hinter alia that the ground relied upon by the petitioner cannot be a valid one 
for setting aside the election . 

Issues were framed on 7th July , 1967 and the case was fixed for recording 
evidence of the parties today . The petitioner did not appear in Court and con 
sequently , his statement could not be recorded . Two witnesses on behalf of 
the petitioner were present in the Court but the counsel for the petitioner could 
not examine them in the absence of any instructions from his client. The witnesses 


3374 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


were thus discharged . No other witness present in Court and the counsel for 
the petitioner closed his evidence . As the petitioner led no evidence , the counsel 
for the Respondent also expressed his desire not to lead any evidence . Arguments 
were consequently heard . 

In order to succeed it was necessary for the petitioner to have proved in the 
first instance that there was any breach of any order issued under the Act by 
the petitioner and that such a breach materially affected the results of the election . 
Even on an assumption that there was a breach of an order issued under the 
Act in the absence of evidence it is not clear whether the Respondent No . 1 
committed any such breach or it was a more breach by a public authority only . 
This Apart , in the absence of evidence it is impossible to come to a conclusion 
that the results , of the election have been affected in any manner an account of 
the grant of the Swatantra Party symbol to the election have been affected in 
any manner on account of the grant of the Swatantra Party symbol to the Res 
pondent No . 1 even if the grant be treated as violating some order issueil under 
the Act. The allegations made in the election petition remain altogether un 
substantiated and unproved . The Election Petition cannot but fail and it is dis 
missed with costs . The counsel s fees are assessed at Rs. 300 (Rupees Three 
Hundred only ) . 

Let an authenticated copy of the decision be sent to the Election Commission 
and the Speaker , Lok Sabha, immediately . 

(Sd.) L . N . CHHANGANI, 

[No. 82 / 19 / 87 (RJ) . ] 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S . O . 3313 . In pursuance of section 106 of the Representation of the People 
Act , 1951, the Election Commission hereby publishes the Order , pronounced on 
the 1st August , 1967 by the High Court of Rajasthan , Jodhpur in Election peti 
Hon No . 20 of 1967. 


IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUDICATURE FOR RAJASTHAN AT JODHPUR 

JUDGMENT 
Ram Lal V . Vishveshwar Nath , 

S . B . ELECTION PETITION No. 20 OF 1967 
Date of Judgfnent: 1- 8 - 1967 , 


PRESENT 


The Hon ble Mr. Justice Jagat Narayan , 
Mr. R . C . Jain for the petitioner . 
Mr. M . B . L . Bhargava and Shri S . K . Goel — for the respondent. 


By the Court 

This is an election petition under section 80 of the Representation of the people 
Act , 1951 challenging the election of Vishveshwar Nath Bhargava - Respondent to 
the Lok Sabha from the Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency . The petition has been 
Aled by one Ramlal an elector of the Constituency. It has been contested by the 
returned candidate . 

The grounds on which the petition is based appear from the following issues 
which were framed in the case : 
1 ( A ) Is the office of Pramukh of a Zlla Pactshad in Fajasthan ( 1 ) under the 

Government and is it ( 2 ) an office of profit within the meaning of 

Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution ? 
1 ( B ) Is the amount of Rs. 300 / - which the respondent No. 1 was admitted 

ly entitled to draw as Pramukh of Zlla Parishad salary or honorarium 

or compensatory allowance ? 
1 ( C ) Did the respondent No. 1 not draw the above amount from the second 

week of January 1967 up to the date of election ? If so , what is the 

effect ? 
1 ( D ) Is the above office exempt from disqualification under section 3 ( 1) of 

the Parliament (Prevention of disqualifcation ) Act (No. 10 of 1959), 
1959 ? 


SEC. 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3375 


2 ( A ) Is section 10 (2 ) of the Delimitation Commission Act , 1962 void on the 

ground that by delegating its power to the Delimitation Commission 

to such an extent the Parliament has effeced itself ? 
2 ( B ) If so , is tacking Bhim and Kumbhalgarh Assembly Constituencies to 

Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency void and the votes polled in these 
Assembly Constituencies should be excluded ? If so , how will the 

result of the election be effected ? 
2 ( C ) Can the Delimitation Order, 1966 be challenged before this Court in 

this Election petition under the Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
3 ( A ) Whether the Presiding and Polling Officers for Bhim and Kumbhalgarh 

Constituencies were not appointed by district Election Officer , Ajmer ? 
3 ( B ) If so , who appointed " them ? Was any breach of the provisions of Sec 

tion 25 or 26 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 thereby 

committed ? 
3 (C ) Is it necessary to go into the above questions in the absence of any 

allegation in the petition that the result of the election was materially 

affected by irregularity , if any, of the above description ? 
4 ( A ) Did the respondent commit a breach of section 78 of the Representa 

tion of the People Act, 1951 by Aling the return of his election ex 
penses before the District Election Officer, Ajmer and by not Aling the 

return before the DEO Udaipur ? 
4 ( B ) Does it constitute a ground for setting aside the election under section 

100 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951? 
5 ( A ) Was the Returning Oficer of the Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency 

not authorised to administer oath to the respondent under Article 84 
of the Constitution by virtue of Notification No. $ . O . 3215 dated 
14 - 11 - 1963 published in the Gazette of India (Extraordinary ), Part II . 

Section 3 (1 ), No. 228 dated 16 - 11- 1963 ? 
5 ( B ) If so , is the election liable to be set aside under section 100 (1 ) (a ) of the 

Representation of the People Act, 1951 ? 
8 . To what relief are the parties entitled ? 

Findings 
Issue No. 1. (A ) 

The petitioner was the Pramukh of Ajmer Zlla Parishad on the date on which 
he Aled his nomination paper as well as on the date on which the election was held . 
Under the Rajasthan Zila Parishads ( Payment of Allowance to Members ), Rules , 
1961 as Pramukh of the Ajmer Zila Parishad he was entitled to a monthly hono 
rarium of Rs. 300 / - and was also entitled to draw travelling allowance and daily 
allowance in accordance with these rules In addition to the honorarium , 

Some village Panchayats were in existence in Rajasthan when the Constitution 
came into force and others were established after the coming into force of the 
Constitution in pursuance of the directive principle contained in Article 40 of the 
Constitution , which runs as follows : 
" 40. The State shall take steps to organise village panchayats and endow 

them with such powers and authority as may be necessary to enable 

them to function as units of self - government." 
In the Second Five Years Plan the Planning Commission had laid great em 
phasis on the fact that planning should start as the lowest level and that Pan 
chayats should be the nucleus of such planning. Implementation of all scheme of 
rural development should be broad -based on self -help and mutual cooperation . 
The study Team of Community Development headed by Shri Balwant Raiji Mehta 
(which was appointed by the Committee on Plan Projects set up by the Planning 
Commission ) examined this question at great length and suggested the formation of 
Panchayats in villages and democratic decentralisation of administration at the 
block and district levels . The Rajasthan Panchayat Samitis and Zila Parishads 
Act , 1959 was passed to give effect to this recommendation , Panchayats were 
formed for groups of cillages so as to cover all the villages in the State . The 
Sarpanch of each Panchayat is elected by adult franchise . For every block & 
Penchayat Samiti was constituted to supervise over the work of all the Panchayats 
within its jurisdiction as well as to carry out some other duties . A zila Parishad 
was constituted in each District to supervise and coordinate the work of Panchayat 
Samitis . It is also an Advisory Body for planning and development activities in 
the District. The Panchayat Samitis and the zlla Parishads are Corporate Bodles 
having perpetual succession with power to acquire ; hold and dispose of property 
and to enter into contracts and can gue and be sued . The Sarpanch of the Par 


3376 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


{PART JI 


chayat is elected on the basis of adult franchise by all the residents of the group 
of villages included it . All Sarpanches of Panchayats within the jurisdiction of a 
Panchayat Samiti are ex - officio members of it. Members of the Legislative Ansembly 
of the State elected from an area within the jurisdiction of the Panchayat Samiti 
are also ex -officio members . Some members of the Panchayat Samiti are elected 
by the President of the Gram Sabhas in the block from amongst themselves. These 
members in turn coopt upto two women , two persons belonging to the scheduled 
castes and two persons belonging to the scheduled tribes. The Pradhan of the 
Panchayat Samiti is elected by an electoral college consisting of 

(1) Şarpanches of all panchayats ; 
( ii ) Members of Legislative Assembly elected from the Block ; 
( iii ) Coopted members of the Panchayat Samiti; 
( iv ) All panches of the Panchayats in the zlo - k . 

( v ) Presidents of all Gram Sabhas in the Block . 
Every Zlla Parsihad consists of the following members : - 

(1) Pradhans of all Panchayat Samities in the District ; 
( ii ) members of the Rajya Sabha residing in the District ; 
( iii ) members of the Lok Sabha elected from a Constituency which forms part 

of the District ; 
(lv ) members of the Legislative Assembly elected from the District; 
(v ) the above ex -officio members coopt upto two women , a person belonging 

to the scheduled caste and a person belonging to the scheduled tribes . 
Besides the above members , the District Development Officer, viz . the Collector 
of the District. is a member. He has a right to speak at the meetings but he has 
no right to vote . There are some other associate members also , who have a right 
to speak but cannot vote . The District Development oficer and the associate 
members do not take any part in electing the Pramukh of the Zila Parishad , who 
18 elected by an electoral college consisting of 

( i) Pradhang of all panchayat Samitis , 
( 11 ) members of the Lok Sabha elected from a Constituency forming part of 

the district , 
( ill ) members of the Rajya Sabha residing in the District. 
( lv ) members of the Legislative Assembly elected from a Constituency form 

ing part of the District. 
( v ) members of the Panchayat Samiti , who have a right to vote at its 

meetings. 
The functions which the Panchayats, Panchayat Samitis and Zila Parishads 
discharge are governmental functions, viz . functions which would normally be 
performed by the servants of the State , If these bodies had not been created . They 
are all subject to governmental control the extent of which is indicated by the 
Statutes creating these bodies, and the rules framed under them . As has already 
been mentioned above the zila Parishads were created by the Rajasthan Panchyat 
Samities and Zila parishads Act , 1959, the following provisions of which may be 
noticed to indicate the extent of control exercised by the Government on the Zila 
Parishad and Its Pramukh : 
S . 42 ( 2 ) - makes the Zila Parishad a body corporate having perpetual succes 

sion and a common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose of 
the property , to enter into contracts and to sue or be sued in its cor 

porate name, 
S . 43 ( 3 ) ( iv - a ) - The District Development Officer viz . the Collector is a mem 

ber of the Zila Parishad , who has a right to speak at its meetings but 

has no right to vote . 
S . 46 . - The normal term of office of Zlla Parishad is three years but the 

State Government may extend it from time to time by a period not 

exceeding one year in the aggregate . 
S . 48 . - The resignation of the Pramukh only takes effect from the date on 

which the sanction of the State Government thereto is received in the 

office of the Zila Parishad , 
S 32. — Rules for the conduct of business at its meetings are prescribed by 

the State Government. 
S . 53 ( 1) - The District Development Officer is entitled to atiend meetings of 

the sub - committees of the Zlla Parishad and to participate in the 
dellberations, 


Sec . 3 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 3377 


ចាំហំ 


S . 53 ( 2 ) — All Officers of the State Development Department are entitled to 

attend the meetings of the Zlla Parishad or a aub - committee thereof 
and to participate in the deliberations of such meetings relating to 

matters concerning their departments . 
S . 54 — The Zlla Parishad can direct any division level officer of Government 

to attend any of its meetings . It can also direct any officer of the 

State Development Department to attend Its meetings. 
S . 55 - - The Secretary of the Zlla Parishad is appointed by the State Govern 

ment. He is a person holding a post under the State Government and 

18 liable to transfer by the State Government , 
S . 56 – The Secretary appointed by the State Government records and keeps 

the minutes of the meetings of the Zila Parishad as well as its sub 
committees. He works as drawing and disbursing ofllcer of the Zila 
Parishad The Pramukh has however the power to stop any payment 

and place the matter before the zila Parishad for its orders . 
S . 57 — Enumerates the powers and functions of the Zlla Parishad . The main 

function of the Zila Parishad is to supervise and coordinate the acti 
vities of the Panchayat Samitis and to distribute among them the 

ad hoc grants allotted to the district by the State Government. 
S . 58 - Defines the powers and functions of the Pramukh . He convenes, 

presides over and conducts the meetings of the Zila Parishad , has full 
access to its records, exercises administrative control over its Secre 
tary and the Staff working in the Secretariat in order to enable him 
to assess the activities of the Panchayat Samitis . He is expected to 
visit the blocks and to inspect the works undertaken and the records 
maintained by the Panchayat Samitis. The Pramukh sends annually 
a report about the work of the Secretary to the District Development 

Officer 
S . 60 — The State Government Axes the strength of the staff , determines their 

conditions of service and the method of their recruitment. The Zila 
Parishad is the appointing authority in case of Class III Staff . The 
appointments are made on the recommendation of a Selection Commis 
sion consisting of two persons appointed by the State Government and 
the Pramukh . Members of the State Service can be appointed to the 
Zlla Parishad Service and vice -verga . 
Under section 87 the members of the Zila Parishan Service are entiti 
ed to receive pensions from the State Government out of the conso 

lidated fund of the State . 
S . 61 — The allowance of the Pramukh as well as the members of the Zila 

Parishad is fixed by the State Government. 
S . 62 — All moneys received by a Zila Parishad are credited to and constitute 

a fund which is called " The zila Parishad Fund " and are to be applied 
for the purposes specified in the Act or the Rules framed thereunder, 
The moneys are however to be kept in the Government Treassry . All 
orders for payment are to be signed by the Secretary . Payments for 

amounts exceeding A s , 5 ,000 / - are to be countersigned by the Pramukh . 
S . 63 -- The only two sources of income of the Zila Parishad consist of - 

( 1) moneys received from the State Government. 
( ii) donations and contributions from the Panchayat Samitis or from 

the public. 
There is no provision in the Act making it incumbent on the Pancha 

yat Samitis to make a donation or contribution to the Zilą Parl 
shad . The Zlla Parishad Fund thus mainly consists of moneys 

recelved from the State Government. 
The payment of allowances of the Pramukh and the members of the 

Zlla Parishad is made a first charge upon the fund of the Zlla 

Parishad . 
9 . 64 (4 ) -- The Budget Estimate as finally passed by the Zlla Parishad are to 

be submitted to the State Government and if the State Government is 
satisfied that an adequate provision has not been made for giving 
effect to the provisions of the Act it shall have power to suggest modi. 
Acations and to return it to the Zlla Parishad with its observations. 
The Zlla Parishad is bound to consider such observations and pass the 
budget with such modifications as it deems necessary . It is note 
worthy that the Zlla Parishad is not bound to accept modifications 
suggested by the Government. 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 / ASVINĄ I, 1889 


[PART II 


S . 65 - The Zlla Parishad is bound to maintain accounts , to transact its 

financial business , to submit returns to the State Government and to 
prepare Its bud et in accordance with the Rajasthan Panchayat 
Samitis and Zila Parishads (Financial, Accounts and Budget) Rules , 
1959. Under Rule 30 it is the duty of the Secretary to see that the 
total expenditure is kept within the Imits of authorised appropriation 
and funds are expanded on objects for which provision has been made . 
Under Rule 76 ( 3 ) the State Government has power to cause the pay 
ment of the pay and allowances of the officers and servants of the 
Zila Parishad including the members after they have become due it 
the Zlla Parishad fails to make payment. Under Rule 102 the Zila 
Parishad has to send quarterly as well as annual statements of income 
and expenditure under each head of the budget to the District De 
velopment Officer who in turn submits them to the State Government 
with the comments . 

The accounts of the Zila Parishad are audited under the Rajasthan 
Local Fund Audit Act, 1954 and the Rajasthan Local Fund Rules, 
1955 . Under Rule 107 it is the duty of the District Development 
Omcer to see that the irregularities pointed out in the Audit Report 
are promptly attended to and rectified . Rule 108 makes it binding 
on the zila Parishad to remove the audit objections without delay , 
Under Rule 11 ( 2 ) the Zila Parishad can write off loss of money , 
recoverable revenues, loans, advances or stores only with the appro 
val of the State Government. Under Rule 115 the State Government 
have power to issue instructions to the Zila Parishad from time to 
time for the proper observance of the Rajasthan Panchayat Samitis 
and Zila Parishads (Financial, Accounts and Budget ) Rules , 1959 . 


S . 68 - A - If the Zila Parishad makes any default in performing any duty 

imposed upon it by or under the Act the State Government may direct 
It to perform the duty within a period Axed by it. If the duty is not 
performed within the period the State Government can appoint some 
person to perform it and direct the Zila Parishad to pay the expenses 
incurred in the performance of the duty together with reasonable 

remuneration to the person so appointed . 
S . 67 — The State Government may supersede the zila Parishad If it appears 

to it that it has failed to exercise its poners and perform its functions 
or has exceeded or abused its powers. On being superseded the 
Pramukh as well as the members of the Zlla Parishad all go out of 

the office , 
S . 73 – The Pramukh as well as members of the Zila Parishad are made 

public servants withịn the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal 

Code . 
S . 74 – The Zlla Parishad has to send to the State Government annually & 

report on its administration . 
s 75 — Provides that no suit against a Zila Parishad or against any member , 

officer or servant thereof or against any person acting under direction 
of the Zila Parishad for anything done or purporting to be done under 
the Act in its or his official capacity shall be instituted without giving 
two months notice or more six months after the accrual of the cause 

of action . 
8 . 76 – Gives protection against being sued or prosecuted for any thing done 

in good faith under the Act. 
S . 77 – Surplus funds can be invested hy the Zula Parishad only with the 

sanction of the State Government. 
S . 79 - Gives power to the State Government to frame rules for carrying out 

the purposes of the Act. 
S . 84 - Gives power to the State Government to delegate some of its powers 

under the Act to any person or authority subordinate to it . S . 58 ( e ) 
lays down that the Pramukh shall exercise such other powers as may 
be delegated to him under section 84 . From this it is inferred on 
behalf of the petitioner that the State Government threats the Pra - - 

mukh as a person subordinate to it. 
S . 85 — Enables the State Government to revise any order of the Zila Parishad. 
$ 90 - If any dispute arises between two Zita Parishads or between a Zlla 

Parishad and a Municipal Board it shall be referred to the State 


SEC , 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 /AŞVINA 1, 1889 


, 


Goveệnment for decision . Such decision shall be final and shall not 

be questioned in any court of law . 
It is not disputed that the office of Pramukh of a Zila Parishad in Rajasthan 15 
an office within the meaning of Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution . The first ques 
tion for determination is whether the office of Pramukh ls held under the Govern 
nient. The contention of the petitioner is that it is so held . It is argued that 
although the Pramukh is elected his term can be extended by Government under 
section 46 by extending the term of the Zila Parishad Further although the 
Pramukh can only be removed from his office by a motion of no confidence under 
section 49 , the State Government may put an end to the term of the office of the 
Pramukh by superseding the Zila Parishad under section 67 . Under section 61 it is 
the State Government which determines the remuneration attached to the office of 
the Pramukh . The source from which this remuneration is paid is mainly Govern 
ment revenue. Under section 63 the Zila Parishad Fund mainly consists of moneys 
received from the State Government. It is pointed out that under section 48 the 
resignation of the Pramukh only takes effect after it is sanctioned by the Govern 
nient. Further that under section 58 ( e ) read with section 84 ( 1 ) it is clear that the 
Government treats the Pramukh as its subordinate to whom its powers can be 
delegated . It is argued that the Pramukh as well as the Zila Parishad work under 
the control of the Government and are bound to obey the directions issued by it . 
It is contended that the Zila Parishad performs only governmental functions and 
as such it is an agent or servant of the State and the Pramukh who admittedly 
holds office under the Zila Parishad , holds It under the State . 

On behalf of the respondent It is contended, on the other hand , that the decisive 
factor in coming to the finding as to whether or not an office is held under the 
Government is whether the Government has power to appoint a person to it. The 
Pramukh is elected by an electoral college consisting of persons who are themselves 
elected and the Government has no hand in the appointment. Further the Pramukh 
can only be removed from his office by a motion of no confidence passed by the 
members of the Zila Parishad and in this also the Government has no hand . It is 
pointed out that the Government can neither extend the term of office of the 
Pramukh or put an end to it without extending the term of the office of the Zila 
Parishad or superseding it, and that from these powers of the State Government no 
Inference can be drawn that it has any power of appointment or removal of the 
incumbent of the office of Pramukh As regards the power of the State Government 
to determine the quantum of allowance to be paid to the Pramukh under section 61 
the argument on behalf of the respondent is that such a determination can only be 
made by rules . With regard to the source from which payment is made to the 
Pramukh the contention of the respondent is that it is paid out of the Zila Parishad 
fund and not out of government revenues. In the eye of law even though Zila 
Parishad Fund may mostly consist of moneys received from the State Government. 
It was denied that the State Government can issue any directions to the Pramukh 
or the Zila Parishad Interfering with the exercise of their discretion in discharging 
their functions and compel obedience to such directions. Lastly it was contended 
that the Zila Parishad is a juristic entity distinct from the State Government, and 
cannot be treated as a servant or an agent of the latter . The provisions of the 
Rajasthan municipalities Act, 1959 were referred to and it was pointed out that the 
Government exercises comparatively a strictor control over the Municipal Board 
and its Chairman . The Chairman can be removed like any other member for mis 
conduct. Several of the taxes can only be imposed by the Municipal Board with 
the sanction of the State Government. The Government may refuse to sanction a 
tax proposed by the Board or may sanction the proposal after such modification as 
It seems fit. The Municipal Board has to send its Budget Estimates for sanction to 
the State Government which has power to modify them . The Municipal accounts 
are also audited by the examiner of the Local Fund Audit The Municipal Board 
has to send to the Government an annual Administration Report. The State Gov 
ernment has full powers of inspection and supervision under Chapter XII. It is 
contended on behalf of the respondent that despite these powers no one would think 
of treating the Municipal Board as an agent or servant of the State Government, 

I now proceed to examine some of the decisions cited on behalf of the parties on 
this part of the 1sgue : 
(1) Hansa Jivraj Mehta V . Indubhai B . Amin and others (Election Tribunal, 

Baroda). 
Shrimati Hansa Mehta was appointed Vice Chancellor of the University of 
Baroda by the then Government of Baroda before Baroda merged with Bombay . 
She received an honorarium of Rs. 500 / - per month , a car allowance and a free 


(1) E . L . R . 171. 


3380 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


furnished house from the funds of the University . She was Hable to be removed 
from the office by the Government. It was held that even though the petitioner 
received her allowances from the funds of the University and not from the State 
Wrect , as she was appointed by the Government of Baroda and was Hable to be 
l emoved by the Government she was disqualified under Article 121 ( a ) of the 
Constitution for being chosen as a member of the Parliament. It was observed that · 
in deciding whether or not the office is held under the Government of a State 
various tests can be applied : 
(1) Whether the State Government has the power of appointing or removing 

from office an incumbent ? 
(1 ) Whether it has power to issue directions to the incumbent and compel 

obedience to such directions? 
( ill ) Whether the profit in question is derived by the incumbent from the 

Government of the State ? 
The Arst test was held to be decisive on the ground that if it is satisfied the 
irresistible inference would be that the incumbent would be under an obligation to 
that Government irrespective of the fact that his salary is drawn from source other 
than Government. The Tribunal came to the finding that the honorarium and 
allowance received by Smt. Hansa Mehta came directly from the University Fund 
and the fact of Government s contribution to that fund does not in any way change 
the source of the honorarium and allowance . 


(2) Hakikatullah V . Nathusingh and others (Election Tribunal, Bikaner). 

Hakikatullah was the President of the Jodhpur Municipality . He was getting 
Hs. 130 / - per month as an honorarium , Under section 53 of the Jodhpur Municipal 
Act, 1943 the President of the Board was elected by the members of the Board from 
amongest themselves subject to the approval of the Government. Under section 59 
he was liable to be removed from the office by the Government on the ground of 
persistent failure to perform his duty . It was held that section 53 gives a hand to 
The Government in the appointment of the President which could not be made until 
und unless the Government agreed to it . As he was removable from office by the 
State it was held that he was disqualified under Article 191 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitu 
tion for being chosen as a member of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly . 


(5) Dr. Deorao Laxman Anande V . Keshav Laxman Borkar 

The question which arose for decision in the case was whether an Insurance 
Ivedical Practitioner appointed under the Employees State Insurance Corporation 
was disqualifled under Article 191 ( 1 ) ( a ). The Corporation was a body Incorporate 
liaving perpetual succession and a common seal and was capable of suing and being 
pued in the name of Employees State Insurance Corporation . Under the provisions 
of the Act under which the Corporation was established the Government exercised 
konsiderable control over it . Its principal officers were appointed hy the Govern 
Inent. Its Budget Estimates were to be submitted to the Central Government for 
npproval. The Audited Accounts were also to be submitted to the Government. 
l he Corporation thus worked under the control and supervision of the Central 
Government. It was held that that would not make it a servant or an agent of the 
Government or justify an inference that it was a Government Department. In the 
eye of law it was a separate statutory body and its employees could not be regarded 
as employees of Government. A reference was made to the decision in Tamlin V . 
Hansford ( 1950 Í KB 18 ) . 

It was found that the Insurance Medical practitioners were appointed by the 
Surgeon -General to the State of Bombay. They were 11able to dismissal or 
removal or to other disciplinary action by the same authority . Part of the remu 
neration payable to the Insurance Medical practitioners came out of the revenues 
of the State . On these Andings it was held that the Insurance Medical paracti 
tioners held office under the Government of Bombay . 

It was was observed that the principal tests for deciding whether an office is 
under the Government are 
( 1) What authority has the power to make an appointment to the office 

concerned . 
( 2 ) What authority can take disciplinary action and remove or dismiss the 

holder of the office , and 
(2 ) VI E .L . R . 10 . 
(8 ) AIR 1958 Bombay , 314 


Sec, ( ii)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3381 


( 3 )by whom and from what source is his remuneration paid . 
of these the Arst two were held to be more important than the third . 

( 4) Narayanaswamy V . Kishnamurti 

In this case the question which arose was whether the nomination paper of 
one C . Krishnamurthi, a junior Inspector under the Life Insurance Corporation 
of India who had stood for election to the Madras Legislative Assembly was 
rightly rejected . It was held that he was not disqualified under Article 191 ( 1 ) ( a ) 
but was disqualifed under Article 191 ( 1) ( e ) by virtue or Regulation 29 framed 
by the Life Insurance Corporation under section 49 of the Life Insurance Cor 
poration Act prohibiting its employees from standing for election to the legis 
latures . 

The Government of India has provided capital for the Corporation and has 
large powers of supervision and control over the management. The contention 
was that employees of the Corporation should be deemed to be holding office of 
profit under the Government of India . This contention was repelled by the 
High Court. 

The reasoning on which the decision of the Tribunal against which an appeal 
was preferred before the High Court was based was similar to that given by 
their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Abdul Shakur V . Rikhab Chand 16 ) 
Before the High Court It was sought to distinguish Abdul Shakur s case (6 ) on 
the ground that in that case Government had merely assumed control over the 
property of a public charity and provided for the management of the Public Trust 
which was not in any sense the exercise of sovereign power or the creation of a 
Department of State and therefore furnished no analogy to the case before the 
High Court where the Government had nationalised the business of Insurance 
by taking over the assets of companies theretofore transacting life insurance busi 
ness, had by statute created for itself a monopoly in such business and had created 
a corporation for the transaction of what was thereby rendered a State activity . 
It was urged that the Lifc Insurance Corporation is virtually a Department of 
the State or a servant of Government. This contention was negatived . There 
Lordships referred to Tamlin V , Hansford ( 1950 O1KB 18 ) . In that case the 
plaintiff was the lessee of a house which was vested in the British Transport 
Commission under the Transport Act of 1947. The defendant was the sub - tenant 
of some rooms in the House. The plaintift sued for possession of the rooms in 
the occupation of the defendant, and the defendant claimed the protection of the 
Rent Restrication Acts . The County Court Judge held that as the title to the 
house was vested in the British Transport Commission It must be deemed to be 
owned by the Crown , and that the Crown was not bound by the Rent Acts and 
he made an order for possession . The question debated before the court of 
appeal was whether by reason of the house becoming vested in the British 
Transport Commission , it had become Crown property , the contrary contention , 
being founded on the British Transport Commission being a distinct legal entity 
- the Corporation created for certain public purposes , and that hy reason of 
the vesting of the housc in such a body , it could not be treated as Crown 
property , 

Denning L . J. who delivered the judgment observed : -- 

" The Transport Act, 1947, brings Into being thc British Transport Commis 
sion which is a statutory corporation of a kind comparatively new to English 
law . It has many of the qualities which belong to corporations of other kinds 
of which we have been accustomed . It has, for instance , defined powers which 
it cannot exceed , and it is directed by a group of iron whose duty it is to see 
that those powers are properly used . 

It may own property , carry on business, borrow and lend money, just as any 
other corporation may do , so long as it keeps, within the bounds which Parlia 
ment has set but the significant difference in this corporation is that there are 
no share -holders to subscribe the capital or to have any voice in its affairs. The 
money which the Corporation needs is not raised by the issue of shares , but by 
borrowing , and its borrowing is not secured by debentures , but is guaranteed 
by the Treasury If It cannot repay. the loss talls on the consolidated fund of 
the United Kingdom : that is to say, on the tax payer . There are no shareholderg 
to elect the Directors or to fix their remuneration . . . .. 

(4) ATR 1958 Madras ? 43 . 
“ ) AIR 1958 Supreme Court 52 . 


3382 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


If it should make losses and be unable to pay its debts , its property is liable 
to execution , but it is not lable to be wound up at the sult of any creditor. The 
tax payer would , no doubt be expected to come to its rescue, before the creditore 
stepped in . Indeed , the tax payer is the universal guarantor of the Corpopration . 
But for him it could not have acquired its business at all, nor could it now 
continue it for a single day . . . . 

The protection of the interests of all these lax payers, user and beneficiary 
1s entrusted by Parliament to the Minister of Transport . He is given powers 
over thiş Corporation which are as great as those possessed by a man who holds 
all the shares in a private company , subject however , as such the man is not , 
to a duty to account to parliament for his stewardship . It is the Minister who 
appoints the directors—— the members of the Commission — and fixes their remune 
ration . 

They must give him any information he wants, and , lest they should not prove 
amenable to his suggestions as to the policy they should adopt, he is given power 
to give them directions of a general nature in matters which appear to him to 
affect the national Interest , as to which he is the sole judge , and they are then 
bound to obey . 

These are great powers , but still we cannot regard the Corporation as being 
his agent, any more than a company is the agent of the shareholders or even of 
a sole shareholder . In the eye of the law the Corporation is its own master and 
is answerable as fully as any other person or Corporation . It is not the Crown and 
has none of the immunities or privileges of the Crown , 

Its servants are not civil servants and its property is not Crown property . 
It is as much bound by acts of parliament as any of other subject of the King . It 
18 , of course , a public authority and its purposes, no doubt, are public purposes 
but it is not a Government Department, nor do Its powers fall within the province 
of Government . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

We do not find it very useful to draw the analogles from other bodies which 
are differently constituted and differently controlled and exist for different pur 
poses. The Territorial Forces Association , for instance, is not concerned with 
commercial matter , but with the deference of the realm which is essentially the 
province of Government, and it is , therefore, to be considered as agent of the 
Crow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

. .. . .. .. .. 

Ime PUs Ollice 15 
The post office is the nearest analogy . 

C Cal 
It is, of course , concerned with commercial matters , but it is, nevertheless , a 
Government Department and its servants are civil servants. That is , however , 
an anomaly due to its history . The carriage of mail was a crown monopoly long 
before the Post -Master -General was incorporated . But the carriages of passengers 
and goods is a commercial concern which has never been the monopoly of any 
one and we do not think that its unification under State Control is any ground 
for conferring Crown privileges on it. 

The only fact in this case which can be said to make the British Transport 
Commission a servant or agent of the Crown is the control over it whch is exer 
cised by the Minister of Transport, but there is ample Authority both in this Court, 
and in the House of Lords for saying that such control as he exercises Insufficient 
for the purpose . . . . . . . . 

When Parliament intends that a new corporation should act on behalf of 
the Crown , it, as a rule, says so expressly , as it did in the case of the Central 
Local Board by the Town and Country Planning Act, 1947, which was passed 
on the very same day as the Transport Act, 1947 . 

In the absence of any such express provision the proper inference in the case, 
at any rate , of a commercial corporation is that it acts on its own bchalt, even 
though it is controlled by A Government department. 

In our opinion , the British Transport Commission is not a servant or agent 
of the Crown and its property is as much subject to Rent Registration Acts as 
the property of any other person " . 

The decision in Tamlin V . Hanngford ( 195 1 KB 180) was applied and it was 
held that the Life Insurance Corporation could not be treated as a department 
of Government or its servant or agent. It was observed : 
" The object and purpose of the statuite was the creation of body autonom 

Qus regard to its day -to -day administration and tree from ministerial 


CEC, 3 ( il )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ASYINA 1, 1889 3383 


control except as to broad lines of policy, and therefore outside - 
plenary Parliamentary surveillance , save perhaps in regard to the 

directions given by the responsible minister under s . 21. 
It was this freedom that was sought to be achieved by the creation of a 

separate legal entity in the form of a statutory Corporation . There 
was not , therefore , merely a difference in form between a depart 
ment of the Government and this statutory Corporation but one in 

substance." 
(5 ) Abdul Shakur V . Rikhab Chand. 

The appellant was the manager of a school run by a committee of manage 
ment formed under the provisions of Durgha Khwaja Sahib Act, 1955 . He was 
appointed by the Administrator of the Durgah and was paid Rs. 100 per month . 
The question arosę whether he was disqualifed to be chosen as a member of 
Parliament in view of Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution ? It was contended 
for the respondents in that case that under sections 5 and 9 of the Durgah 
Khwaja Sahib Act, 1955 the Government of India had the power of appointment 
and removal of members of the committee of management as also the power to 
appoint the Administrator in consultation with the committee. Therefore the 
appellant was under the control and supervision of the Government and that 
therefore he was holding an office of proĀt under the Government of India . This 
contention was repelled and the Supreme Court pointed out the distinction bet 
ween the holder of an office under the Government and the holder of an office of 
profit under some other authority subject to the control of Government. It was 
observed : 

" No doubt the Committee of Durgah Endowment is to be appointed by the 
Government of India but it is a body corporate with perpetual successions acting 
within the four corners of the Act. Merely because the committee or the members 
of the committee are removable by the Government of India or the committee can 
make bye-laws prescribing the duties and powers of its employees cannot in our 
opinion convert thz servants of the committee into holders of omce of profit 
under the Government of India . The appellant is neither appointed by the 
Government of India nor is removable by the Government of India nor is he paid 
out of the revenues of India . The power of the Government to appoint a person 
to an omce of proft or to continue him in that office or revoke his appointment 
at their discretion and payment from out of Government revenues are important 
factors in determining whether that person is holding an office of profit under the 
Government though payment from a source other than Government revenue is 
not always a decisive factor . But the appointinent of the appellant does not 
come within this test. 

A number of election cases reported in the Election Law Reports were cited 
before us but they were decided on their own facts and are of little assistance 
in the decision of the present case. The test of the power of dismissal by the 
Government or by an officer to whom such power has been delegated which was 
pressed in support of his case by the respondent is equally inapplicable to the 
facts of the present case because the appellant cannot be dismissed by the 
Government or by a person so authorised by the Government. He is a servant of 
the statutory body which in the matter of its servants acts within the powers 
conferred upon it by the statute . 

A comparison of the different articles of the Constitution 38 ( 2 ), 66 ( 4 ) , 
102 ( 1 ) ( a ) and 191 ( 1 ) ( a ) dealing with membership of the State Legislatures 
shows in the case of members of the Legislatures unlike the case of the President 
and the Vice- President of the Union the dlsqualifcation arises on account of 
holding an office of profit under the Government of India or the Government 
of the States but not if such officer is under a local or any other authority under 
the control of these governments . " 

(8 ) M . Ramappa V . Sangappa and Others. 

The question arose as to whether the holder of a village office , who has a 
hereditary right to it is disqualined under Article 191 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution 
which is the counterpart of Article 102 in the matter of membership of the State 
Legislature . It was observed 

" The statute , no doubt, gives him a right to be appointed by the Government 
in certain cases . Nonetheless, it is the appointment by the Government that 


( 5 ) AIR 1958 Supreme Court 52 . 
(6 ) AIR 1998 Supreme Court 937 


3384 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART 11 


remain by the The comptrower 


perfects his right to the office and makes him the officer ; without such appoint 
ment he does not hold the office . The olice is, therefore held by reason of the 
appointment by the Government and not simply because of a hereditary right to 
it The fact that tho Government cannot refuse to make the appointment does 
not alter the situation ." 

It was found that the holder of the village office works under the control and 
supervision of the Government, his remuneration is paid by the Government out 
of Government funds and assets , he is removable by the Government, and thus 
he holds his office under the Government 

( 7) Guru Gobinda Basu V . Shankari Prasad . 

The appellant was appointed an auditor by the Central Government of two 
Government companies: ( 1) The Hindustan Steel Ltd ., and ( ii ) Durgapur Projects 
Ltd . He was removable from office by the company in a general meeting after 
obtaining previous approval of the Central Government. The Comptroller and 
Auditor General of India exercises control over the auditor of a Government 
company . The Auditor General has right to give such auditor instructions in 
regard to any matter relating to the performance of his functions as such . The 
remuneration of the auditory is fixed by the Central Government though it is 
paid by the Company. Both the companies are hundred percent Government 
companies . The Comptroller and Auditor General is appointed by the president 
and his administrative powers are controlled by the rules made by the President of 
India On these facts it was held that the appellant was disqualifler under 
Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) . The following five tests were referred to before their Lord 
ships : 

( 1 ) Whether Goverpment makes the appointment to the office ; 
( 2 ) Whether Government has the right to remove or dismiss the folder of 

office ; 
(3 ) Whether Government pays the remuneration ; 
(4 ) What are the functions which the holder of the office performs and 

does he perform them for Government; and 
(5 ) Does Government exercise any control over the performance of those 

functions. 
It was contended on behalf of the petitioner that all these tests must co 
exist and each must show subordination to the Government. On behalf of the 
respondents it was argued that the tests are not cumulative in the sense con 
tended for by the petitioner , and what is to be considered is the substance of the 
matter which must be determined by a consideration of all the factors present 
in a case and whether stress will be laid on one factor or the other will depend 
or the circumstances of each particular case. 

It was observed that in Abdul Shakur s case (5 ) the facts which were 
held to be decisive were ( a ) the power of the Government to appoint a person 
to an office of profit or to continue him in that office or revoke his appointment 
at their discretion , and ( b ) payment from out of Government revenues, though 
it was pointed out that payment from a source other than Goverrment revenues 
was not always a decisive factor . Further that in Ramappa v . Şangappa (6 ) the 
decisive test was held to be the test of appointment. It was held 
" In view of these decisions we cannot accede to the submission of Mr. 

Chaudhari that the several factors which enter into the determination 
of this question — the appointing authority, the authority vested with 
power to terminate the appointment, the authority which determines 
the remuneration , the source from which the remuneration is paid , 
and the authority vested with power to control the manner in which 
the duties of the office are discharged , and to give directions in that 
behalf — must all co exist and each must show subordination to Gov 
ernment, and that it must necessarily follow that if one of the elements 
is absent, the test of a person holding an office under the Government, 
Central or Ştate is not satisfied . The cases we have referred to 
specifically point out that the circumstance that the source from 
which the remuneration is paid is not from public revenue is a neutral 
factor - not decisive of the question . As we have said earlier whether 
stress will be laid on one factor or the other will depend on the facts 
of each case . " 


(7) AIR 1964 Supreme Court 254 . 


$ ec, 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 3385 


(8 ) Kishore Chandra Deo Bhanj v . Raghunath Misra and others 

The case came on an appeal from a decision of the High Court of Orissa . 
The High Court was of the opinion that a Sarpanch of the Gram Panchayat, 
though not a Government servant appointed by the Government, was none the 
less a person in the service of the Government as he performed many of the 
Government duties and was also removable by the Government and such & 
person came within the provisions of Section 123 ( 7 ) ( f ) of the Representation of 
the People Act , 1951. The Sarpanch exercised mostly governmental functions 
like collection of taxes , maintenance cf public accounts etc . The High Court 
thought that if such a person was not brought under section 123 ( 7 ) f ) there would 
bę a losts of undue influence exercised on the voters by these persons, who in the 
village exercised a lot of influence considering the nature of their powers and 
the ideas of the village people . Their Lordships drew a distinction between 
" servant under the Government" and " In the service of Government" on the ground 
that while one may serve under a Government, one may not necessarily be in 
the service of the Government. Under the latter expression the existence of 
the relationship of master and servant is necessary , the two essentials of which 
are 
(i) the servant must be under the duty of rendering personal services , to 

the master or to others on his behalf; and 
( 11) the master must have the right to control the servant s work either 

personally or by another servant or agent. 
It is this right of control or interference , of being entitled to tell the servant 
when to work (within the hours of service ) or when not to work , and that work 
to do and how to do it (within the terms of such service ) , which is the dominant 
characteristic in this relation and marks off the servant from an independent 
contractor, or from one employed merely to give to his employer the fruits or 
results of his labour. It was found that as between the State Government and 
the Gram Panchayat and its Sarpanch no relationship of master and servant 
existed . It was observed : 
" It is true that the State Government, the District Magistrate and the 

Sub -divisional Magistrate have been given certain powers of control 
and supervision over the Gram Panchayat but those powers of control 
and supervision are in relation to the administrative functions of the 
Gram Panchayat and the Sarpanch . The Gram Panchayat is an auto 
nomous body exercising functions conferred under the statutes . It can 
hardly be said that the Gram Panchayat is 30 functioning in the 
service of the Government. Its administrative functions are akin to 
the functions generally performed by Municipalities and District 
Boards. It would be a conception hitherto unknown to suppose that 
any Municipality or District Board was in the service of the Govern 
ment merely because it exercised administrative functions and to 
some extent was under the control of the Government. Co -operative 
Societies generally are very much under the control and supervision 
by the State Government or one of its officers authorised in that behalf. 
It would be difficult to accept this suggestion that because of that a 
Co - operative Society and its members must be regarded as in the 
service of the Government. . . . . . Even if it could be said that the 
Gram Panchayat in the exercise of its administrative functions 
exercised duties in the nature of governmental duties it could not 
thereby be said that its Sarpanch was in the service of the Govern 

ment. " 
As was pointed out by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in Guru Gobinda 
Basu v . Shankari Prasad (7 ) for holding an office of profit under the Government 
and there need be no relationship of master and servant between them . The 
above case 19 therefore of no help in deciding the question as to whether the 
Respondent was holding an Omce under the Government. 

Applying various tests suggested in the above decisions to the present case 
the result is as follows : 
( i) A Perşual of the provisions of the Rajasthan Panchayat Samitis and 

zila Parishads Act, 1959 goes to show that the State Government has 
no hand in the appointment of a person to the Office of Pramukh . 
The Pramukh is elected by an electoral college consisting of persons 
who are themselves elected by different Electoral Colleges . He is not 
elected even by members of the Zlla Parishad . 


(8 ) XIX E . L . R . I , 


3386 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


Under section 46 Government can extend the term of the Zlla Parishad upto 
a maximum of one year . If the term of the Zila Parishad is extended then the 
term of the Omce of the Pramukh is also extended . The State Government has 
thus power to extend the term of the Pramukh by a year indirectly by extending 
the term of the Zila Parishad . 

( 2 ) The State Government cannot remove the Pramukh or take any disciplinary 
action against him . The Pramukh can only be removed from his Office by the 
Members of the Zila Parishad by passing a motion of no confidence at provided 
in section 49 . 

The State Government can however supersede the Zlla Parishad under section 
67 and iſ the Zila Parishad is so superseded then the term of Office of the 
Pramukh also comes to an end . The State Government can thus terminate the 
Office of the Pramukh indirectly by resorting to the provisions contained in 
section 67 

( 3 ) It is the State Government which determines the allowances which are 
payable to a Pramukh by framing rules as provided under section 61. 


( 4 ) These allowances are paid out of the Zlla Fund which in turn consists 
mostly of moneys received from the State Government. 

( 5 ) The powers and functions of the Pramukh are enumerated in section 58 . 
He performs these functions in his capacity. As Pramukh of the Zila Parishad . 
As the Zlla Parishad Itselt performs only governmental functions, the functions 
performed by the Pramukh are also governmental in nature . It cannot however 
be said that he discharges his functions on behalf of the Government. He per 
forms them in his capacity as Pramukh of the Zila Parishad in exercise of statutory 
powers conferred on him under the Rajasthan Panchayat Samitis and Zlla Parishads 
Act, 1959. 

(8 ) No power has been given to the Government to interfere with the Pramukh 
in the exercise of his functions under the Act or the rules framed thereunder , 
The Government has however been given power to exercise control over the Zila 
Parishad under the Act and the rules . These powers have been enumerated above 
in detall. If the Zila Parishad fails to perform any of its duties then the Govern 
ment can direct its performance aş provided under section 66A . On the fallure 
of the Zila Parishad to comply with the direction the Government can appoint 
some one to perform the duty and recover expenses of the same from the Zila 
Parishad . It can even supersede Zila Parishad under sectlon 67 for falling to 
exercise its powers for abusing them . But it cannot dictate the manner in which 
the Zlla Parishad shall discharge a particular duty or perform a particular 
function . 

( 7 ) The Zlla Parishad is a juristic entity distinct from the State . It cannot 
be regarded as a department of the State or its agent or servant. 


The only decision which the learned counsel for the petitioner cited in support 
of the contention that the Zila Parishad is a department of the State or agent 
or servant of it is the case of Narayanswamy V . Krishna Murthi (4 ) . Neither 
that decision nor the observations made in it support him . The learned Judges 
Telied on Tamlin v . Hanssfor ( 1950 1KB 18 ) in that case . It was held that 
when Parliament intends that a new Corporation should act on behalf of the 
Crown , it, as a rule , says so expressly , as it did in the case of the Central Local 
Board by the Town and Country Planning Act , 1947, which was passed on the 
very same day as the Transport Act , 1947. In the absence of any such express 
Provision the proper inference in the case, at any rate , of a commercial Corporation 
is that it acts on its own behalf , even though it is controlled by a Government 
Department. The last mentioned observation was qualified by adding the words 
" In the case , at any rate , of a Commercial Corporation " by way of abundant 
cautiori. Learned counsel for the petitioner was unable to cite any case of a 
non - Commercial Corporation in which it mleht have been held that it was a 
department of the State despite the fact that the Act creating it did not expressly 
say so . It was observed in para 19 in that case : 
" . . . . . . the test of a function on which he laid considerable emphasis appears 

to be equally unsafe for identifying a public Corporation As a part of 
the mechanism of the State . To start with , it may be mentioned , 
that for this purpose, Corporations created for Municipal or Local 
Administrations are not treated as part of the State so as to render 
the Corporators or those employed by the Corporations either as 
part of Government or as Government servants . " 


SBC, 8(0 )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 3387 


Merely because the Zila Parishad performs governmental functions and the 
State Government exercises control or it , it cannot be held that it is merely 
a Department of the State . Within the four corners of the Rajasthan Panchayat 
Samitits and Zila Parishads Act , 1959 the Zila Parishad has full power to act 
independently . There is no provision in this Act or the Rules iramed thereunder 
under which the State Government can dictate to it in what manner it should 
discharge a particular duty or perform a particular function . 

In all the decided cascs which have been referred to above the test of appoint 
ment was given the greatest importance . In fact no case could be cited by the 
learned counsel for the petitioner in which it might have been held hat an Oflice 
was held under the Government in which the Government did not have the power 
of appointing the incumbent. The power of the State Government to extend the 
term of appoinment indirectly by extending the term of the Zila Parishad and 
the power to terminate the appointment indirectly by superşeding the Zila Parishad 
cali hardly be regarded as powers of appointment and removal of the Praull kh . 
Having icgard to all the facts found by me above I am of the opinion that the 
OfHcc of a Pramukh of a Zila Parishad in Rajasthan is not an Otice under the 
State Government within the meaning of Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constitution , 

A Pramukh nu doubt holis an Ollice under the Zila Parishad which is a Local 
Authority subject to the control of the State Government. He is disqualifed for 
the Office of the President of the Union under Article 58 ( 2 ) of the Constitution . 
He is nul tryllulid for being chosen as a member of Parliament or the Lcgis 
lative Assembly of a State . 

The next yestion to be considered is whether the C Tice ( + Pramukhi is an 
Office of Troli ! Any iTurrial advantage, however , in m1! icant, uill Constitute 
Prolit in the literal sense . In Havana Subanna V . G S Kaggceronpa ( 9 ) their 
Lory , log , . 111 - s . proine Cruirt tok the view that remli-centu some out 
oľ -porket panses should not be trcaled as pront Their Lorusps vicie alcaling 
with ihr que 11011 wil ver tlie Olivce and thai Chirman of Gubbi Taluk Derclop 
rert C6111111cc was 211 Oince of Prurit 11 wij olisei veri - - 
" The plugin nieaning of the expression seems to be thai an Oflice inust be 

nem 21 let Givernmert to which any pay , Setit .y , einilunents or 
allowul a lo detached . The word pruflt cofinotes ti idra ci pecuniary 

1: I1 t in is realiy tg i , its quantum urmount would nut be 
" Jerial, but ihe amount of money receiveable by a person in con 
molion yth thn Olice he holds may be natrrial is reciding whether 
o Nice in 1ly carrirs l o lil It appear , rom the rules that 
in ! illik Developinela Ca ttec is constituted as a part of the 

SL .. lle 101 ruryanisation we al development 
It is a short OI Act sury Body consisting oť ten members and is presided over 
liv i nun -Owal naunan The Chairman has no executive duties to perform 
maluch pre leit entirely to the Ainildar of the Taluk who is the ex -cftlero Secretary 
to the Committee , wlile 7 Special Heveauc Inspector is to act as Assistant Secre 
tary . The Chairinn is to preside over the meetings which are to be convened by 
the Secretary to consultation with him and the rules provide that the Chairman 
will be entitled to a fe of Rs. A for ench sitting he attends . 

From the facts -tated above , we think it can reasonably be inferred that the 
fee of Rs. 6 which the non -Officlal Chairman is entitled to draw Por cach sitting 
of the Committee , he attends, is not meant to be a payment by way of remuneration 
or profit but it is given to him as a consolidated fee for the out-of-pocket expenses 
which he has to incur for attenring the meetings of the Committee . We do not 
think that it was the intention of the Government which created these Taluk 
Development Committece whirh were to be manned exclusively by non -Omcials , 
that the Ollir , of the Chairman or of the members should carry any profit or 
remuncration 

Under the Rajasthan Zilla Parishad ( Payment of Allowance to Members ) Rules, 
1961 thr Pramukh is outillecl to pin 10norarium of Rs 300 per month In addition 
te this he is entitled to draw travelling allowance for all journcys perforined on 
Oficiel Duts including the journey perforira v lim from his rellencs is Ajmer 
to the Once of Zila Parishad in Ajmar at the rates prescribed in these rules . 
Further he is antitled to raw Daily Allorance at Rs 5 er day whenever he 
goes out of Ajmer on Omcial Duty in conveyance other than a Goverincnt 
Vehicle and makes half at one place for more than eight hours. He is entitled to 
draw Daily Allowance at Rs. 5 per day even if he halts ſo less than eight hours 
outside Ajmer provided he travels by a Government Vehicle . 


AIR JC54 Supreme Court 65 " . 


3388 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 26, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


It will thus be seen that all the out- of-pocket expenses of the Pramukh Art 
covered by the travelling allowance and daily allowance to which he is entitled 
under the rules and the Honorarium of Rs. 300 per month is a net pecuniary 
gain to the Pramukh from his Office . The Office of Pramukh ts thus an Office 
of proft within the meaning of Article 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) of the Constituency . 


On behalf of the Respondent it was contended that the Honorarium of Rs. 300 
per month works out to Rs. 10 per day and even if it is assumed that the Pramukh 
Halts outside Ajmer for more than eight hours on every day of the month the 
maximum amount which he can make per day comes to only Rs. 15 which is 
such a small amount that it should be taken to cover only the out of pocket 
expenses of the Pramukh . I am unable to accept thly contention . As I have 
pointed out above all the out- of - pocket expenses of the Pramukh are ccvered 
by the travelling allowance and the daily allowance to which he is entitled under 
the rules and the monthly Honorarium which he gets is the net gain to him from 
the Office . This gain must be treated as " proft" . 


Another contention was that the Honorarium is not attached to the Office as 
under the rules if the Omce is held by a Member of Parliament or a Member 
of the Legislative Assembly then he is not entitled to any Honorarium . This 
argument is fallacious. All that we are concerned is as to whether the Respondent 
was holding an Office of " profit " when he filed his nomination paper. In other 
words we have to find out whether he was likely to make profit from the Once 
which he was holding. The answer to that question is that he was . As Pramukh 
he was entitled to an Honorarium of Rs . 300 per month by virtue of being a 
Pramukh . In his case therefore the Honorarium was attached to the Onice which 
he was holding . 
Issue No. 1 ( B ) 

The amount of Rs. 300 has been reťerred to as Honorarium in the rules . In 
the Act there is a provision for giving allowance to the members under section 81 . 
In my opinion it makes no difference whether this amount is called salary or 
* allowance or Honorarium . All these expressions almost mean the same thing . 
According to Webster s Third New International Dictionary 
Salary means : 1. fxed compensation paid regularly for services ; 

2 . ( a ) remuneration for service given ; fee, honorarium ; 

(b ) reward / recompensation . 
Allowance means : A sum granted as a reimbursement or bounty or as appropriate 

till such purposes as personal or houschold expenses 
Honorarium means : an honorary payment of reward usually given as compen 

sation for services on which custom or propriety forbicls any 
fixed business price to be set . 


Members of Parliament are entitled to a salary of Rs. 500 per month and a 
Daily Allowance at the rate of Rs. 31 per day under the Salaries and Allowances 
of Members of Parliament Act , 1954 . In this Act the Axed amount payable 
monthly to Members of Parliament has been referred to as “ Salary . It can 
also be called " allowance " honorarium , are all given as compensation for services, 
But the term " Compensatory Allowance has been used in the Parliament (Pre 
vention of disqualification ) Act , 1959 in a special sense which will be dealt with 
under Issue No. 1 ( D ) . 


Issue No. 1 ( C ) 

The respondent remained on leave from 18th January, 1967 7. 7 7th April, 1967, 
and did not draw any Honorarium for this period . He was not entitled to draw 
any honorariun for leave beyond 20 days in a year under the rules . For the 
Arst 20 days riť his leave he was entitled to draw Honorarium . Even if he were 
not entitled to draw and honorarium at the time when he Alrd his nomination 
paper that would make no dillererice . For he was nevertheless holding an Office 
oľ proſt at that time and was accordingly disqualified for being chosen as a 
Mcmber of Parliament. This legal position was nct disputed by the learned 
counsel for the respondent. 
Issue No. 1 (D ) 

On behalf of the respondent it is claimed that the Office of proft falls under 
section 3 ( 1 ) of the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification ) Act, 1959 and 


Sxc . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 3389 


. 


. 


. 


. . 


. . . . 


. 


. . 


accordingly he was not disqualified for being chosen as a Member of Parliament. 
Section 3 ( 1 ) runs as follows : 
3 . Certain Offices of profit not to disqualify . - - 
It is hereby declared that none of the following Offices , in so far as it is an 

Omce of profit under the Government of India or the Governinent of 
any State , shall disqualliy the holder thereof for heing chosen as , or 
for being a Member of Parliament, namely : - 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
( i ) the Office of Chairman , Director or Member of any statutory or 
non - statutory body other than any such body as is referred to in 
clause ( h ), if the holder of such Omce is not entitled to any remu 
neration other than Compensutory Allowance . .. ... ... 
Conipensatory Allowance is defined under section 2 ( a ) as follows : 
" Conpensatory Allowance " means any sum of money payable to the 
holder of an Oflice by way of Dally Allowance ( such Allowance not 
exceeding the amount of Daily Allowance to which a Member of 
Parliament is entitled under the Salaries and Allowances of Members 
of Parliament Act , 1954 ( 30 of 1954 ) ] , any conveyance allowance , house 
tent allowance or travelling allowance for the purpose of enabling 
him to recoup any expenditure incurred by him in perforining the 

functions of that Ofec ;" 
The Office of Pramukh is no doubt the Office of Chairman of a Statutory Body . 
But the remuneration tu - which the Pramukh is entitled is not confined to " Com 
persatory Allowance " as defined in the Act. " Compensatory Allowance " can cover 
only such sums as are payable by way of 

( 1) dally allowance ; 
( ii ) conveyance allowance . 
( iii ) house rent allowance : 

( iv ) travelling allowance; 
The Pramukh is entitled to monthly honorarium besides travelling and daily 
allowance . This monthly honorarium cannot be treated as Daily Allowance . It 
Ha true that a Member of Parliament is entitled to a Daily Allowance of Rs. 31 
per duy and if the Pramukhs were entitled only to draw Daily Allowance upto 
Rs. 31 per day and not to any Monthly Allowance then he would be exempt from 
disqualification under the Act . But as is entitled to draw a Monthly Allowance 
or Honorariu he is not exempt from disqualification , under this Act. 

As however I have helrl Above that the Pramukh does not hold an Office under 
the Government he is not discalifcd for being chosen as a Member of Parliament 
under Articl . 102 ( 1 ) ( a ) . 
Issue No . 2 ( A ) 

Article 32 of the Constitution provides for readjustment of Constituencics etter 
qach census. Article 327 enables Parliament to makc provision for the delimitation 
of Constituencies by law . Such provisions was made after the 1961 census by 
the Delimitation Commission Act, 1962. The Delimitation Coinmission which was 
constituted u .ider this Art published an Order under section 10 ( 1 ) Delimiting 
Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies in the State of Rajasthan . This order 
was published in the Rajasthan Gazette . According to this Notification the Anne 
Parliamentary Constituency comprised of the following Assembly Constjluencies : 

(i ) Ajmer Fast - (86 ). 
( ii) Ajmer West - ( 87 ) . 
( iii ) Pushkar - ( 88 ). 
( iv ) Nasirabad - ( 98 ) 
( v ) Beawar — ( 90 ). 
( vl) Masuda — (91) . 
( vii) Kumbhalgarh - ( 136 ) . 
( vill) Bhim - ( 137) . 


The Arst six of the above Constituencies are in Ajmer District . Kumbhalgarh 
and Bhim Assembly Constituencies are in Udaipur District. In the year 1982 
Kumbhalgarh and Bhim Assembly Constituencies were not included in Ajmer 
Parliamentary Constituency . All the Assembly Constituencies included in Ajmer 
Parliamentary Constituency were in Ajmer District, 


3390 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II - 


The contention on behalf of the petitioner is that section 10 ( 2 ) of the Delimi 
tation Commission Act, 1962 which lay down that upon the publication in the 
Gazette every such order shall have the force of law and shall not be called in 
question in any Court is void as by enacting such a provision the Parliament 
eftuced itself. It is argued that the Parliament should have made provision in 
the Act making it incumbent on the Delimitation Commission to obtain the ap 
proval of Parliament before the Delimitation Order could be treated as having 
the Horce of l iw which could not be called in question in any Court. These 
contentions have no iorce. 

In Re : Delhi Laws Act( 10 ) the majority consisting of Kania C . J ., Mahajan , 
Mukherjee and Bose JJ , held that the legislature in India whether established be 
fore or after the Constitution could , as a rule , delegate its legislative power 
to other bodies subject to its exercising essential legislative function which consist 
in laying down a policy or a rule of conduct to guide the exercise of delegated 
authority . Legislative policy could not be left to the discretion of the delegate 
but where such policy was laid down by the legislature the rest could be validly 
delegated , 

Under section 9 of the Delimitation Commission Act , 1962 the parliament laid 
down the principles on the basis of which the constituencies were to be delimited , 
It made provision for the publication by the Commission of its proposals for de 
limitation of consiliuencics, for inviting objections and for the consideration of 
these objections at public sittings . It was after such consideration that the pro - , 
posals were to be Analised . In these circumstances, it cannot be held that the 
parliament abdicated its legislative function or effaced Itself, 

" Issue No . 2 ( B ) . In view of finding on issue No. 2 ( a ) inclusion of Kumbhal 
garh and Bhim constituencies in Ajmer Parliamentary Constituency by the Delimi 
tation Commission is valid 

Tisue No. 2 ( C ) — As was held by their Lordships of the Supreme Court in 
Megbra ). Kotliari V . Delimitation Cominission and others (11) the Delimitation 
Commission Act, 1962 was made by Parliament in exercise of its power under 
Article 327 of the Constitution . Under Article 329 ( a ) of the Constitution the 
validity of this lawr cannot e challenged in any court. It cannot be challenged in 
an clection petition under section of the Representation of the People Act, 
1951 which is to be tried by the High Court. It can also not be challenged by 
virtue of the provisions contained in section 8 ( 1 ) of the Representation of the 
Proplc Act, 1950 , which runs as follows : 

" , Consolidation of delimitation orders . - ( 1 ) as soon as may be, after all 
the orders referred to in sub -section ( 5 ) of section 4 or in sub - section ( 3 ) of 
section 7 relating to thie delimitation of parliamentary and Assembly constituencies 
have been marr by Delimitation Commission or, as the case may be, the Election 
Commission and published in the Official Gazette, the Election Commission shall, 
after making such amendments as appear to it to be necessary for bringing up - to 
date the desiription of the extent of the parliamentary and assembly constitucncies 
as given in such orders consolidate ull such orders into one single order to be 
known as the De imitation ( f Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies Order , 
1966 and sh ? !] send authentie copies of that order to the Central Government and 
to the Government of such Stito having a Legislative Assembly ; and thereupon 
that Order shall supersede , all the orders referred to in sub - section (5 ) of section 
4 or in sub - section ( 3 ) of section 7 and shall have the force of law and shall not 
be called in question in any court." 

Consolldater! Delimintatlo i of parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies 
Order , 1966 was published hy the Clcrtion Commission of India in accordance with 
trie above provision . 

Issue No . 3 . - Polling for the Ajmer Parliunientary Constiluency took place 
simultaneously with the polling for the Assembly Constituencies comprised in 
the Aimer Parliamentary Constitucncy . The District Election Officer, Aj ner 
fixed the pulling stations and appointed presiding and polling omcers for them go 
far as assembly constituencles lying in Ajmer District were concerned . The Dis 
trict Election Officer Udaipur fixel the polling stations and appointed presiding 
and Polling Officers for them so tar as Bhim and Kumbhalgarh 3s50bly consti 
tuences are concerned . The Returning Officers of Assembly constituencies acted 
as Assistant Returning Officers for the parliamentary constituency in which they 
were included . Two ballot papers were given to each elector, one for parlia - . 
mentary constituency and the other for assembly constituency , and after they had 
been marked they were put in the same ballot box , 

( 10) AIR 1951 S .C . 332. 
(11 ) AIR 1967 S . C . 669 . 


SEC . 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3391 


Section 13 - AA , of the Representation of the People Act, 1950 provides for 
the appointment of a District Election officer in each Distilct by the Election 
Commission in consultation with the Government of the State . 

Sections 25 and 26 ( 1 ) of the Representati n of the People Act, 1951 run as 
follows: 

35 Provision of polling stutions for constituencies. The district election officer 
shall, with the previous approval of the Election Commission , provide a suſficient 
number of po ling stations for every constituency the whole or greater part of 
which lies within his jurisdiction , and shall publish , in such manner as the Election 
Commission may direct, a list showing the polling stations so provided and the 
polling arcas or groups of voters for which they have respectively been provided ." 

26 . Appointment of presiding Officer for polling stations.-- ( 1) The district 
election officer shall appoint a presiding oficer for each polling station and such 
polling officer of officers as he thinks necessary, but he shall not appoint any per 
son who has been employed by or on behalf of, or has been otherwise working 
for , a candidate in or about the election : 

Provided that if a polling officer is absent from the polling station , the presid 
ing officer may appoint any person who is present at the polling station other 
than a person who has been employed by or on behalf of, or has been otherwise 
working for , a candidate in or about the election , to be the polling officer during 
the absence of the former officer, and inform the district election officer accord 
ingly : 

Provided further that nothing in this sub - section shall prevent the district 
election officer from appointing the same person to be the presiding officer for 
more than one polling station in the same premises ." 

Under section 25 for purposes of election to the Ajmer Parliamentary Consti 
ituency the District Election Officer of Ajmer was the competent authority to fix 
the polling stations and to appoint presiding officers and polling officers in the 
ares included in Bhim and Kumbhalgarh constituencies . As has been pointed 
out above the presiding offirers , polling officers and the polling stations at which 
votre for the Ajmer Parliamncntary Constituency were cast in the area included 
in l him and Kumbhalgarh Assembly Constituencies were all nominated by the 
d Irint clertion aficer of Urgur. 757.15 as thus non -coinnliance with the 
provisions of sacions 25 ar -1 " 1 . rep tti in of thr Propis Act. 1951 . 

It was 1 , 2 mnm mot ilir ? in the elre my politicn that the 1 [" 7!lt of the 
election was materially lartei ! y this ron - unulianin . It is theintore of no 
conumuenc . m far the nrrent clection iulition is concerned . In this connec 
tion I may before in the demision of their Lorrisbies of the Suprema Court in 
Vashisi Norain Syirma . Derz Chan ( 12 ) Puurder to be able to succeed in 
havirg the electirn of respondent sot n - irle 01 this ground the petitioner lari to 
- allege in his petition and to provr that tlie l esult of the election was materially 
affected by the lon - compliance of the provisions iſ sertions 25 anii 26 of the 
Representation on thr people Act, 1 51. In other thosils lic had to allege and to 
prove that if the polling statinus in Bhim and Kumbhalgarh arras had heen fixed 
hy the District Election Officer . Ajmer and the Presiding and Polling Offrers for 
thein had been apnointed by him then some candidate other than the rcsnondent 
would have polled a mgjority of valid volacIn the absence of any allegation 
or proof to this effect the non - compliance of suctions 25 and 26 is of no conse 
quence whatsoever. 


, Issue No. 4 


As has been pointed out ahove the District Elcction Officer, Ajmer was the 
District Election Offer for the Ajmer Parliamentary Constitucnry under section 
25 of the Repr sentation of the People Art . 1951 as the picator port o the consti 
tuency lay within his jurisdiction . He was the proper authority befure whom 
the return of the election expenses hard to be filed by the respondent under 
section 78 of the Representation of the People Art , 1951. As the return was filed 
before him no breach of section 78 was committed by the respondent. 

Even if any breach of section 78 had been committed by the respondent that 
would be no ground for setting aside his election under section 100 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. 


(1 ) X . E . L . R . 30. 


3392 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART 11 – 


11 


- 


F88ue No. 5 

Article 84 of the Constitution inter -alia provides that a person shall not be 
qualified to be chosen to fill a seat in the Parliament unless he makes and subs 
cribes before some person authorised in that behalf by the Election Commission 
an oath or affirmation according to the foren set out for the purpose in the third 
schedule . The respondent took the oath in this form before the Returning Officer . 
His case is that the Returning Officer has been duly authorised in that behalt 
by the Election Commission by Notification No. S . O . 91, dated 2nd January , 1965 , 
published in the Gazette of India , Extruordinary , Part II , Section 3 , Sub - section 
( ii ). This notification superseded an earlier notification dated 14th November , 
1963. The material part of the notification on which dispule turns is reproducer 
below : 
" In pursuance of clausc ( n ) of Article 84 of the Constitution and in super 

session of its notification No. 3 / 130 /63 ( 1 ) , dated 14th November , 

1963 , the Election Commission hereby directs : 
( EL ) that a candidate for election to the House of the People by a Parlia 

mcntary Constituency shall make and subscribe oath or a ( firmation 
according to form set out for the purpose oť third schedule to the 
Constitution before the Returning Officer or an Assistant Return 

ing Officer for the constituency . 
The argument of the learned counsel for the petitioner is that the above 
notification authorises a candidate for election to the House of the People to 
make and subscribe an oath or affirmation before the Returning Officer or an 
Assistant Returning Officer of the constituency but does not authoriso the Return 
ing Officer or the Assistant Returning Ofcer to administer An oath to him . I 
am of the opinion that the intention behind the notification which has expressly 
been issued under Article 84 ( a ) of the Constitution is to authorise the Returning 
Officer as well as the Assistant Returning Officer of the Constituency to adminis 
ter oath to a candidate for election to the House of the People . 

The respondent was thus duly qualified to be chosen as a member of Parlia 
ment under the relevant part of Article 84 ( a ) of the Constitution and his elec 
tion is not liable to be set aside on the ground that he was disqualified under 
Article 84 ( a ) of the Constitution , 


ORDER 
In view of my findings on the above issues the election petition is liable to 
be dismissed . 

I accordingly dismiss the election petition with costs . 

There were ton hearings . Out of them the case was adjourned on the first 
three hearings at the request of the respondent to enable him to file a written 
statement. Under Rule 24 of the rules framed by the High Court I assess the 
Advocates fces at Rs, 1050 Rs. 150 per hearing for the remaining seven hear 
ings as more than one counsel appeared for the respondent, 

Authenticated copies of the above judgment shall be sent forthwith to the 
Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Election Commission under section 103 of the 
Representation of the People Act, 1951. 

( Sd ) JAGAT NARAIN , 

[No. 82 / 20 / 67. ) . 


ORDERS 

Neuz Delhi, the 14th August 1967 
S . O . 3314 - -Whereas the Election Commission is satisfi it that Shri Mahendra 
Nath Borpatra of Bharalua Gaon , Nawboicha , P . O . Doolahat, Assain , a contest 
ing candidate for election to the House of the People from Lakhimpur Consti 
tuency , has failed to lodge any account of his election expenses as required by 
the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas the sald candidate even after due notice has not given any 
reason or justification for the failure; 


SEC , S(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 3399 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri Mahendra Nath Borpatra to be dis 
qualified for being chosen as , and for being, a member of either House of Par 
liament or of the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order , 

[No. AS -HP / 13 / 67 (31) .] 
New Delhi, the 5th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3315 .- - Whercas Shri Balvir Singh , a contesting candidate for election to 
the House of the People from the Vidisha constituency , failed to lodge any 
account of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People 
Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder , and was given due notice of such 
lailure ; 

And whereas the Elcction Commission is satisfied that the account since 
lodged by him has not been lodged in the manner prescribed in the said Act 
and Rules, and he has not furnished any good reason or justification for the 
failure ; 

Now , therefore, in pursuance of section 104 of the said Act , the Election 
Commission hereby declare the said Shri Bulvir Singh to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being , ontm or ut either Housc OL Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a Slate for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 

[No, MP - HP / 29 /67.1 


New Delhi, the 6th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3316 .- Whereas the Elcction Commission is satisfied that Shri A . Kulase 
karan of No . 2 - Mandapam Street, Gingee , South Arcot District , Madras State a 
contesting candidate for election to the House of the People from 9 . Tindivanam 
Parliamentary constituency , in the State of Madras has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses within the time and in the manner required by the Re 
presentation of the People Act, 1951, and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that ho has no good reason or justi 
Acation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act. the Election 
Commission hereby declares the said Shri A . Kulasekaran to be disqualified for 
being chosen as , and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of 
the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three 
years from the date of this order . 

[No. MD - HP / 9 /67.) 
New Delhi, the 8th September 1987 
S . O . 3317 . — Whereas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Pravin 
Chandra Ramniklal Keshani a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Boinbay North West constituency . has failed to lodge an account 
of his election expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1951, 
and the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas , the said candidate even after due notice has not given any good 
reason or explanation for the failure; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Pravin Chandra Ramniklal Keshani to bo 
disqualified op bein ; chosen as, and for being , a member of either House of Par 
liament or if the Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a 
period of three years from the date of this Order. 

[No. MT- HP / 7 /67.1 
New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
S . O . 3318 - Whereas tlie Eleitins Cami - ) 0 Is satistical that Slui Mahavir 
Prasad , VI ! uvir Gardens, Shirl , " PO, Raivo 1. Klilu (Himachal Pradesh , a 
contesting " didate for election to the IIMLISA of the Irlo from Mahasu con 
stituency . has failed to lodge an Account of his election expenses within the time 


3394 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


PART II 


and in the manner required by the Representation of the People Act, 1981, and 
the Rules made thereunder ; 

And whereas, after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifi 
cation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act, the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Mahavir Prasad to be disqualified for being 
chosen as, and for being , a member of either House of Parliament or of the 
Legislative Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years 
from the date of this order , 

[No. HP -AP / 1 /67.1 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3319 . — Whergas the Election Commission is satisfied that Shri Mai Lal 
Dhani Kishan Dutt , Hissar a contesting candidate for election to the House of 
the People from Hissar constituency , has falled to lodge an account of his election 
expenses as required by the Representation of the People Act, 1961, and the Rules 
made thereunder ; 

And whereas , after considering the representation made by the said candidate , 
the Election Commission is further satisfied that he has no good reason or justifl 
cation for the failure ; 

Now , therefore , in pursuance of section 10A of the said Act , the Election Com 
mission hereby declares the said Shri Mai Lal to be disqualified for being chosen 
as, and for being, a member of either House of Parliament or of the Legislative 
Assembly or Legislative Council of a State for a period of three years from the 
date of this order . 

[NO, HN -HP /8 /67.3 

By Order , 
K . S . RAJAGOPALAN , Secy . 


MINSTYY OF HOME AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the 16t? Sent mber 1967 
S . O . 3320 . - In exercise of the roWars crnf -rred ly clause ( i ) of article 258 
of the Constitutior , tlo Pre icient will be c ont of ihe Govoniout of West 
Bengal, hereby i usts in ihr? Gov : rnment, the functions of the Cent al Govern 
meni in relation to ATIV 4 - Sacird in $ 2113- clauses ( c ) and ( d ) of clause ( 8 ) 
of section 2 of the Cirici, - ts Act 1923 ( 19 of 1923) , suhirct in the condi 
tion that 1. 7 Trith 19 dinner 1 1 enlrument the said functions may also be 
exercisca hy the Central Covinnment. 

[No. 21 /24 /87 -Poll.11.] 
S . S . VARMA, Dy. Secy . 


MINISTRY OF EXTERNAL AFFAIRS 

New Delhi, the fih September 1967 
S . O . 9321. - - In continuation of para 2 of Notification No . M . TI -1181 ( 4 ) / 87 
dated the 8th August 1967 , published in the Gazette of India dated the 26th 
August , 1967, under so No . 287 ), the following three members have been co 
opted under clause ( 1 ) of Sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 4 of the Ilaj Committee Act , 
1959: 

( 1 ) Smt Shirin S . Somjcc, 

Mulchand Bhawan , II Floor, 

Balkeshwar, BOMBAY- 6 . 
( 2 ) Shahzada Shabbirbhai Saheb Nuruddin , 

Al- Azhar, Saif Mahal, 
Pawat Road , Malabar H { II , 
BOMBAY -8 . 


C. 5(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ ASVINA 1 , 1889 3395 


( 3 ) Shri Mustafa Gulam Nabi Faki. 

House No. 77, Contractor Bldg., 
Part D , 3rd Floor, Flat No. 7, 
Hughes Road , 
BOMBAY - 7 . 


[ No. M.II-1181 (4 ) /61.5 
T . T . P . ABDULLAH , 
Director, Personnel & Haj Affaira . 


विदेश मंत्रालय 


नई दिल्ली, 5 सितम्बर 1967 


एस० प्रो० 3322 .-- 26 अगस्त 1967 के भारत राजपत्र में एस० प्रो० सं० 2879 के अंतगत 
प्रकाशित अधिसूचना सं० एम II - 1181( 4 ) / 67, दिनांक 8 अगस्त 1967 के पैरा 2 के क्रम में हज 
समिति अधिनियम 1959 की धारा 4, उपधारा ( 1 ) के क्लोज ( एल ) के अंतर्गत निम्नलिखित 
3 सदस्य सहयोजित किये गये है । 

1. श्रीमती शीरी एस० सोमजी, मूलचंद भवन , दूसरी मजिल , बालकेश्वर, बम्बई - 6 
2. शाहजादा शब्बीर भाई साहब नूरुद्दीन, कल- अजहर-मफी महल , पवाई रोड, मालाबार 

हिल , बम्बई - 6 


3. श्री मस्तफा गुलामनबी फी , मकान न० 77, कन्ट्रैक्टर बिल्डिग , भाग डी , 
नारा मजिल , फ्लैट न० ", घ जंज ड, बम्बई .. 7. 


[ १० एम II -1 1 8 1 ( 4 )/ 67. ] 

E : 1 . दुल्ला , 
ना । पहजकार्य ) । 


- - - 


- - 


- - - 


- - 


- - - - - - 


- 


- - 


- -- - - - - - - - - --- 


NIINISTRY OF PETROLEUM AND CHEMICALS 


New Delhi, the 2nd September 1967 


S . O . 3323, - Whereas it appears to the Central Government that it is neces 
Bary in the public interest that for the transport of petrolcum from the Gujarat 
Refinery , Baroda in Gujarat State to Ahmedabad in Gujarat State , pipelines 
should be laid by the Oil and Natural Gas Commission and that for the purpose 
of laying such pipelines, it is necessary to acquire the right oť user in the land 
described in the Schedule annexed hereto ; 


2 . Now , therefore, in cxercise of the rouri . . . " - - ( ) of 
section 3 of the Petroleum Pipelines ( Acquisition of Right of Ucer in I . and ) Act , 
1962 (50 of 1962) the Central Government lors by nogres its intention to acquire 
the right of user therein . 


3 . Any person interested in the said land may , within 21 days from the date 
of this notifcation , object to the laying of the pipelines under the land to the 
competent authority at LMP Building , 4th Floor, Sayaji Ganj, Baroda in the 
office of the Gujarat Pipeline Project, Oil and Natural Gas Commission . Every 
pergon making surh an objection shall also state specifically whether he wishes 
to be heard in person or by a legal practitioner . 


3396 THE GAŽEITE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


(PART IL 


SCHEDULE 
Distt. Ahmedabad 


Taluka : City 


State ( tujatult 

- - - -- - - - - - - - - 
Village 

s . Iva). 


- - 


flector 


Art 


P . Are 


- 


- - - 


— 


Shu 


Chandlidir 


119 , 2 
248 


1139 


Vejalpur 
Okaf 
- - - - - - 


201 
- - - - 


- 


[No. 31 / 41/ 64 -Prod . Vol. 2. ) 
B . S . S . RAO , Under Secy . 


ERRATUM 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S . O . 3324 , - - In the Corrigendum of the Government of India in the Ministry 
of Petrole in & Chemicals S . O . No, 450 , dated the 23rd January , 1967, published 
in the Gazctie of India , Part II Section 3 sub - section ( ii ) , dated the 11th Febru 
ary , 1967. 
‘At Page 339 for " Survey No. 516M " read " Survey No. 616M " of villare 
Gandhiyon . 

(No. 31 ( 50 ) 763 -ONG /OR .) 
V . P . AGARWAL, Under Secy . 


DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY 

NOTICES 
New Delhi, the 13th September 1987 
Notice under section 11 of the Delhi 

Development Act , 1957 ( No . 61 of 1957 ) . 
S .O . 3325 .--Notice is hereby given that: 
( a ) the Central Government have , under sub - section ( 2 ) section of the 

Delhi Development Act , 1957, approved the architectural elevation 
control in respect of Sectors 2 and 3 of the Zonal Development Plan 

for Zone D - 1 ( Connaught Place and its extension ). 
( b ) A copy of the above architectural elevation control as approved may 

be inspected at the office of the Delhi Development Authority , Delhi 
Vikas Bhawan , " D " Block , Indraprastha Estate , New Delhi - 1 between 
the hours of 11 . 01) A . M . and 3.00 P . M , on all working days. 

No . F . 3 ( 180 ) / 86 -M .P . ) 
New Delhi, the 14th September 1987 
Notice under Section 11 of the Delhi Development Act , 1957 (No. 61 of 1967) . 
S .O . 3326 . - Notice is hereby given that: 
( a ) The Cential Governinen : have, under sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 9 of 

the Delhi Development Act , 1957 (No. 61 of 1957 ) , approved the zonal 

developinent plus lor Zone D - 4 ( Parliament Street ) . 
( b ) A copy of the plan as approver may be inspected at the office of the 

Delhi Develurmuli Authority, Delhi Vikas Bhawan , D - Block , 
Indraprastha Estate , New Delhi- 1 between the hours of 11.00 AM . 
and 3 .00 pm on all working days . 

[ No . F. 4 ( 2) / 63 -M .P . ) 
B . C . SARKAR , Addi, Secy . 


SEC. (ii ] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 / ASVINA 1 , 1889 3397 


MINISTRY OF EDUCATION 

New Delhi , the 11th September 1907 
S . O . 3327. — In pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 31 of the Institutes 
of Technology Act , 1961 ( 59 of 1961) , the Central Government hereby makes the 
following amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the (late ) 

Ministry of Scientific Research and Cultural Affairs No. F . 24- 5 / 62- T , 6 dated the 
9th May , 1962 , as amended by notification No . F . 24- 5 / 62 - T . 6 dated the 31st Decem 
ber, 1962 , and No. F . 25 - 3 / 63-T6 dated the 18th May, 1964 . namely : 

In the said amended notifications , for llic existing para 2 the following shall 
be substituted : 
" 2. Shri G N . Vaswani, Deputy Educational Adviser ( Tech .) in the Minis 
try of Education , shall act as the Secretary of the Council. ” 

INo. F . 10 /1 / 67 - T.6.] 
S. o . 3328 - The Lok Sabha having elected S / Shri Kartik Oraon and Suraj 
Bhan to be Members of the Council in pursuance of clause ( k ) of sub - section ( 2 ) 
of section 31 of the Institutes of Technology Act , 1961 (59 of 1961 ) , The Central 
Government hereby makes the following amendnient in the notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Scientific Rescarch and Cultural Affairs 
(now Ministry of Education ) No. F . 24 - 5 / 52- T 6 , dated the 9th May , 1982 , namely : 

In the said notification , under the heading “ V . Representatives of the Parlia 
ment , " in item ( k ) , for the existing entries ( i ) and ( ii ) , the following entries 
shall be substituted : 

"( i ) Shri Kartik Oraon, Member , Lok Sabha, New Delhi. 
( ii ) Shri Suraj Bhan , Member, Lok Sabha, New Delhi." 

[ No . F . 10 / 1 / 87 - T .6.] 
A . B. CHANDIRAMANI , 
Jt. Educational Adviser ( T ) . 


शिक्षा मंमालय 

नई दिल्ली, 11 सितम्बर, 1967 
एस० प्रो 3329. -- टैक्नोलोजी संस्थान अधिनियम 1961 ( 1961 का 59 वां ) की 
धारा 31 की उपधारा ( 3 ) के अनुसरण में , केन्द्रीय सरकार ( भतपर्व ) बैज्ञानिक अनुसंधान और 
सांस्कृतिक कार्य मंत्रालय , भारत सरकार की अधिसूचना सं० एफ० 24 - 5 / 62- टी० 6 दिनांक 
31 - 12 - 19 62, और सं० एफ० 25 - 3 / 63 -टी06, दिनांक 18 - 5 - 1964 , द्वारा यथासंशोधित 
अधिस चना सं० एफ0 24 - 5 / 62 - टी० 6, दिनांक 9 - 5 --1962 में निम्नलिखित संशोधन करती 
हूँ , अर्थात् : 

उपर्युक्त संशोधित अधिसूचनाओं में विद्यमान पैरा 2 के स्थान पर निम्नलिखित निम्न दिया 


जाए , 


" 2 श्री जी० एन० वासवानी, उप शिक्षा सलाहकार ( तकनीकी ), शिक्षा मंत्रा , परिषद 
के चित्र के गम में कार्य करेंगे " । 


[ सं० एफ० 10 - 1 /67 -टी०० ] 


एस० प्रो० 3330.- ~-टेक्नोलोजी संस्थान अधिनियम , 1961 ( 1931 का 59वां ) की 
धारा 31 की उपधारा ( 2 ) के खण्ड ( ट ) के अनुसरण में लोक सभा द्वारा सर्वश्री मातिना प्रोगंध 
और सूरजभान के परिषद के सदस्य चुने जाने पर , केन्द्रीय सरकार, वैज्ञानिक प्रनमंबान तथा 


3398 THL GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


TEMPAT ALU FENTY ( IT PreTT FATE ) , Tri Trofit if 171 0 740 21-5 . 
62- ato TIF 9 - 5 -62 IFE TITIETH F t , nufa : 
37727 TETIT V -FITER Daimler sfidati ufa" 42 

107 
that (i) # : ( ii ) :61-709 , i te ri fiat Tiffrzui fit et rig : 
" (i ) *** Forfait, sitta , 

AFFT, ITA 191, 7 farzetti 
( ii ) ef 7911 , 
STEFT 7745 74T, TE factanti" . 

[no 7460 10/1/67.£to 6] 

अ० बू० चन्दीरामाणी, 
संयुक्त शिक्षा सलाहकार । 


MINISTRY OF HEALTH & FAMILY PLANNING 

(Department of Health ) 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 
$ . 0 , 3331. — In pursuance of clause ( d ) of rule 2 of the Indian Medical Coun 
cil ( Election of Licentiates) Rules , 1965 published with the notification of the 
Government of India in the late Ministry of Health No. G . Ş . R . 216 dated the 
5th February , 1965 , the Central Government hereby appoints the following officers 
as " Returning Officer " and " Assistant Returning Omcer " for the conduct of 
election of members to the Medical Council of India under clause ( d ) ( I sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 3 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ) : 
namely :S 
1 . Dr. M . J. H . Writer , Assistant Di ector Gencral (PII ) , Dirccnratc Grom 

ral Health Services, New Delhi ! -- Returning Officer . 
2 Shri K . Gangava , Deput Assistant Director Gencral ( Stores ), Directo 
rate General of , lieallo Servies , New Delhi — Assist. 

it Returning 
Onicer 

[No, F . 4 - 3 / 65 -MPT, J 
V . K SAMANTROY Under Secv. 


( l }, rtment of Health ) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1967 
S . O . 3332, — Where the Government of India in the late Ministry of Health 
has, by notification No. 16 - 23 / 61 -MI, dated the 28th February , 1962, made in 
exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian 
Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1956 ), serognised the medical qualificatinn 
M . B . B . S ., granted by the University of Adelaide, South Australia for the purpoias 
of the suid Act ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 14 of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 ( 102 of 1954 ), 
the Central Government hercby specifies a further period of two years with 
effect from the 11th August , 1966 or so long as Dr. Jarzes William McMillan , 
who possesses the said qualification , continues to work in the Sanheshwar Mis 
sion Hospital and Silver Jubilee Leprosy Hospital, Sankeshwar, (Belgaum Dis 
trict ) in which he is attached for the time being for the purposes of teachin ? , 
research or charitable work , whichever is shorter , as the period to which thic 
medical practise of the said Dr, James William McMillan , shall be limiter 

[No. F . 19 - 9 / 67 -MPT. 
L . K , MURTHY, Under Secr . 


SEc . s( it )] 


THE. GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 _ 3399 


MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT & COMPANY AFFAIRS 

(Department of Company Affairs ) 

New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 
S. O . 3333 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -sections ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of 
section 609 of the Companies Act , 1956 ( 1 of 1956 ) , the Central Government 
hereby directs that there shall be an office at New Delhi for the purpose of the 
registration of companies under the sald Act in the State of Haryana and 
appoints the Registrar of Companies, Delhi, as Registrar for the registration of 
companies under the sald Act in the said State as well, and makes the following 
amendment to the notification of the Government of India in the Department of 
Company Affairs No. S . O . 3272 dated 31st October , 1966, namely: - -- 

In the said notification , the words " In the State of Haryana and" and the 
words "in the sald Stato, and " shall be omitted. 
2. This notification shall come into force on the 3rd October , 1967 . 

__ [ No. 4 ( 25 ) - G / 66. 7 
M. C. VARMA, Under Secy . 


प्रौद्योगिक विकास एवं कम्पनी कार्य मंत्रालय 


कम्पनी कार्य निमग 

नई दिल्ली , 12 सितम्बर , 1967 
एम० प्रो० 3334. - - मानी अधिनियम 1956 ( 1955 का । ) का भ .--- . ):) की 
उप- वाग : ) तथा ( 2 ) द्वारा प्रदत्त शक्तियों का प्रयोग करते हए केन्द्रोग , र . in .शित करती 
है कि नगे । अधिनियमक अन्नगं ।इयाना राज्य में कम्पनियों के पाक रणनित, नई दिल्ली 
में एक कार्यालय डोगा, लपापाTीक, दिलना , काम म , भी गगन । गधिनियम के 
अन्तर्गन , पियों TT पजीकरण ने लिय द्विार नियक्त करती ह , ए भारत गरकार , 
कम्पनो कार्य समान को अधिना मरमा एम० नो० 3 272 दिनांक 31 अकबर , 1956 में 
निम्नलिखित मशोधन करती है : -- 

उक्त अधिगुना में ररियाना गज्य में नथा शब्द एक " जन राज में , तथा शब्द लाग्न 
हो जायेंगे । 
2. यह प्रध्रि पुनना दिनाक 3 अक्तूबर 197 से लागू होगी । 

[ सं० 4( 25 ) - जी० / 66] 
एम० मी० वर्मा, अवर सचिव । 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 7th September 1967 
S . O . 3335 - Whereas Brig. T . B. Poduval, who was appointed as a member 
of the Motor Car Quality Enquiry Comınittec set up under the Government of 
India, Ministry of Industrial Development and Coinpany Aflairs S . O . No 2373 
dated 11th July 1967, has resigned ; 


3400 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1899 


[PART II 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the Indus 
trieg ( Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951 ( 65 of 1951) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following amendment to the above mentioned order pub 
lished at pages 1233- 1234 of the Gazette of India Extraordinary in Part II Section 
- 3, Sub -section (11) dated the 11th July 1987 namely : 

The following entry in the said order shall be deleted : 
" 2. Brig . T. B . Poduval, Oncer on Special Duty, Ministry of Defence, New 
Dalhi . ” 

[NO. F . 1 (37 ) / 87 -A .E .Ind ( I). I 
R . V . SUBRAHMANIAN , Jt. Secy . 


(Department of Industrial Development) 

(Indian Standards föstitution ) 
New Delhi , the 5th September, 1967 


S . O . 3336 . - Jo pursuancelof sub - regulations (2 ) and (3 ) of regulation 3 of the Indian Stand - 
ard ; Institution (Certification Marks ) Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution here 
by notiAss that the Indian Standard ( s ), particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto 
angexe have been established during the period 16 to 31 August, 1967 , 


THE SCHEDULE 


Brief particulars 


Serial No. and Title of the Indian No. and Title of the Indian 
No , Standard Established Standard or Standards, if any, 

superseded by the new 
Indian Standard 


( 3 ) 


I 


2 


IS : 332- 1967 Specification IS : 332- 1951 Specification This standard prescribes the 

for chromium potassium for clirome alum potash , requirements and methods 
sulphate (chrome alum ) 

of test for chromium pot 
( first revision ). 

assium sulphate for use in 
tanning industry and pro 
cessing of photographic 

materials (Price Rs. 3 . 50) . 
IS ; 1536 - 1967 Specifica - IS : 1536 - 1960 Specifica - This standard covers the 

tion for centrifugally cast tion for centrifugally cast requirements for centri 
( spun ) iton pressure pipes ( spun ) iron pressure pipes fugally cast ( spun ) iron 
for water, gas and sewage for water, gas and sewage, pipes for pressure mein 
( first revision ). 

lines for water , gas and 
dewage , manufactured in 
metal or sand moulds 

(Price Rs 7 . 00 ) 
IS : 1595 - 1967 Specifica - IS ; 1595 - 1960 Specifica - This standard covers the 

tion for enamelled round tion for enamelled high - requirements of enamalled 
copper wire with high conductivity annealed high conductivity anncaled 
mechanical properties round copper wire (synth - round copper wires with 
( first revision ). etic enamel) 

high mechanical proper 
ties of sizes 0 .050 to 
4 . 000 mm in diameter 
(bare ) and used for 
winding coils of ins 
truments , electrical machi 
nery and upparatus (Price 
Rs 8 . 00 ) 


3 


SEO , 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3401 


(1) 


IS : 1852- 1967 Specifice 

tion for rolling and cutting 
tolerances Fof hot - rolled 
steel products ( first revi 
sion ). 


IS : 1852 - 1962 Specifica - 

tion for rolling and cutt- 
Ing tolerances for hot . 
rolled steel products. 


This standard lays down 
rolling and cutting toler 
ances for hot rolled 
structural steel beams, 
channels, equal and un 
cqual leg angles , tcc bars , 
bulb angles, angles with 
legs of uncqual width and 
thickness , round 404 
Bquare bars (other than 
bars meant for fastener ), 
flats , plates , strip and 
sheets conforming to IS : 
226 - 1962 , is : 961- 1962 , 
IS : 1977 - 1962 , IS ; 
2062 - 1962 and relevant 
dimensional standards 
( Price Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


3 


IS : 1880 - 1967 Specifice 

tion for Zinc oxide for 
clectroplating , 


This standard precribes the 
requirements and the 
methods of sampling and 
test for zinc oxide used 
in electro - plating (Price 
Rs. 6 . 00 ) 


IS : 2338 ( Part II) - 1967 

Code of practice for finish 
ing of wood and wood 
based materials Part II 
schedules . 


This standard lays down 
schedules for finishing 
of wood and wood -bascd 
materials with paints , var 
nishes , polishes and other 
organic coatings (Price 
Rs. 3 50 ). 


TIS : 2369 - 1967 Method for IS : 2369 - 1963 Method for 

determinadon of absorb - determination of absorb - 
ency of absorbent textilo ency of highly absorbent 
materials ( first revision ) . materials such as cotton 

gauge and cotton wool. 


This standard prescribes a 

inethod for determination 
of absorbency of absorbent 
textile materials , such an 
collon gaume and cotton 
wool. (Price Rs. 2 . 00 ). 


8 


IS : 2598 - 1966 Safety codo 

for industrial radiogra 
phic practice, 


This safcty standard describ 

es the effects of radiation 
exposure on personnel and 
lays down the maximum 
permissible done to ensure 
protection against thc ex 
posure of personnel cn 
gaged in the use of ionizing 
radioation in theindustrial 
field , It further outlines in 
details the methods of 
ratiation survey , site moni 
toring and personnel moni 
toring and the mcasures 
necessary for protection 
against radiation exposure 
from different sources of 
radiation. It also describes 
the medical supervişion of 
radiation workers and lays 
down the responsibility of 
the management in ensur 
ing safety of personnel. 
(Price Rs. 12 : 50 ). 


3402 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1987 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


(Part II -- 


9 


IS : 2720 ( Part XXIV ) - 1967 
Methods of test for soils 
Part XXIV determination 
of base exchange capacity . 


10 I $ : 2720 (Part XXV ) - 1967 

Methods of test for soils 
Part XXV determination 

of silica sesquioxide ratio . 
IL IS : 3088 - 1967 Method for 

Assaying of finc grade pal 
ladium , 


IZ 


13 


IS : 3274 - 1967 Specification 

for goosc -neck ventilators 

- - welded type. 
IS : 3333 ( Part IV ) - 1967 

Dimensions for petroleum 
industry pipe threuds Part 
IV buttress cusing thrcade . 


14 IS : 3579 - 1966 Methods of 

test for oilseeds. 


15 IS : 3746 - 1966 Graphical 

symbols for coal prepara 
tion plant. 


This standard lays down the 
method for the determing 
tion of base (cation ) ex 
change capcity of gollo . 

(Price Rs, 2 .00 ). 
This standard lays down the 
method for determining the 
silica sesquioxide ratio of 

soils . (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ). 
This standard prescribes the 
method for determining 
the purity of fine grada 
palladium As laid downlo 
IS : 3096 - 1965 . (Prict 

Rs. 1. 50 ). 
This standard specifics the 
requirements of goose -neck 

ventilators. (Price Rs. 2 .50 ) 
This standard coveres basic 

profile, dimensions and 
tolerances of butteress cas 
ing threuds used in petro 
leum industry . (Price 

Rs. 2 50 ) 
This standard prescribes the 

methods of test for ojlsecdo 
including the oil bearing 

frujta . (Price Rs. 3 .50 ), 
This standard prescribes 
standard symbols for use 
in the basic process flow 
diagrams and others relat 
ing to coal preparation 

plants. (Price Rs. 3 . 00 ) . 
This standard prescribes the * . 
methods of test for alco 
holic drinks. (Price Rs. 

7 . 00 ) . 
This standard prescribes the 
requirements , methods of 
sampling and test for ln 
ing leathere made from 
goat , sheep and calfskin , 
and cowhides. (Price Ro. 

6 . 00 ) . 
This standard covers the 

requirements and test for 
galvanized steel wire , 
strips and galvanized or 
ungalvanized tapes for 
armouring of cables 
(Price Rs 3 . 50 ). 
This code covers common 
definitions and gencral " 
guidancc in regards to 
selection of materials for 
tubular scaffoldinge ( Price 
Rs 2 . 50 ). 


16 


IS : 3752 - 1967 Methods of 

test for alcoholic drinks . 


17 


IS : 3840 - 1966 Specification 

for lining leathers. 


18 IS : 3975 - 1967 Specifica 

rion for mild steel wires, 
strips and tapes for Armour 
ing cables . 


19 IS : 4014 ( Part I) - 1967 Code 

of practice for steel tubular 
scaffolding Part I defini 
tions and materials , 


quc. 3( 1)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 4 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 3403 


20 IS : 4020 - 1967 Methods of 

tests for wooden flugh 
doors : type tests 


This standard covers methods 
of test for flash doors for 

evaluating their perfor 
mance ; the following tests 
have been covered : 
( a ) Humidity tests : 

(1) Varying humidity 
test, and 
(2 ) Differential humidity 

test, 
Noto - Ead - immersion test 

Is covered as an accept 
ance test in the specif 
cation for flush doorg . 
( b ) Dynarnic tests : 
( 1 ) Slamming test, 
( 2 ) Impact indentation 
test , and 
3 ) Shock resistance test. 
( c ) Static tests : 
( 1 ) Edge loading test ; 
(a ) Diagonal comer 

loading tests ; 
Flexure tests (or, single 

corner loading test) ; 
(4 ) Screw holding power 

test ; and 

( 5 ) Local planeness test 
(Price Rs 5 . 00 ) 


( 3 ) 


21 IS : 4046 - 1967 Specifica 

tion for gents cotton knit 
ted briefs 


This standard prescribes the 

constructional details and 
other particulars of gents, 
cotton knitted briefs (Price 
Rs. 3 . 50 ) 


22 


IS : 4073 - 1967 Specifica 

tion for fish weights 


This standard covers the 

shape, and dimensions of 
and thematerials to be 
used for the fish ( lead ) 
weights ( Price Rs 2 : 50 ) 


23 IS : 4102- 1967 Specifica 

tion for leather for shutt 
lecock caps 


This standard prescribes the 
requirements , nethods of 

sampling and test for 
aluminjum tanned gheep 
skin intended for shuttle 
cock caps (Price Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


24 


IS : 4105 - 1967 Specifica 

tion for styrenc (vinyl ben 
zene ) 


This standard prescribes the 

requirements and themet 
hods of sampling and tesi 
for tho material commer 
cially known 28 styreno 
( vinyl benzene ) (Price Rs. 
8 . 00 ) 


25 I9 : 4121- 1967Method of 

test for determination of 
water transmission rate by 
capillary action through 
natural building stones 


This standard lays down the 
procedure for determina 
tion of rate of water trens 
mission rato by capillary . 

action through natura 
building stone , (Price Roi 
7 . 00 ) 


3404 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1987 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


4 


. 


26 


IS : 4128- 1967 Specifica 

tion for fireman s leather 
boots 


This standard specifics the 

requirements, methods of 
sampling and test for fire 
men s leather boots, knee 
high (Wellington type ) 
with upper of waterproof 
chrome leather and rubber 
sole (Price Rs. 5 . 30 ) 


27 IS : 4134 - 1967 Recommend 

¢d colour classification of 
rough diamond 


This standard recommends a 
scheme to facilitate descrip 
tion for marketing of 
rough diamonds on the 
basis of their colour (Price 
Rs . I 50 ) 


28 


IS : 4142- 1967 Specifica 

tion for discus 


This standard lays down the 
material, dimensional and 
constructional requirements 
of two sizes of discus 
(Price R . 2 - 50 ) 


29 IS : 4143 - 1967 Specifice 

tion for carrom - draughts 


This gtandard lays down the 
material, dimensional and 
constructional requirements 
of catrom - draughts (Price 
Rs. 2 . 50 ) 


30 


IS : 4158 - 1967 Specifica 

tion for solid embedded 
type electric heating ele 
ments 


This standard covers the 

general, constructional 
safety requiremcnts , and 
the methods of tests of 
solid embedded type 
elements in cast iron or 
any other suitable metal 
performed to receive the 
heating Spiral together with 
the embedding material and 
having maximum loading 
of s kw (Price Rs 2 . 50 ) 


31 IS ; 4159 - 1967 Specifica 

tion formineral filled shea 
thed heating elements 


This standard covers the 

requirements and methods 
for tests for mineral Alled 
gheathed heating elements , 
designed to operate on 
voltages not exceeding 250 
volts ac single phase 50 
c /s or de under the opera 
ting conditions specified 
by the manufacturers 
( Price Rs, 2 . 50 ) 


Copies of these Indian Standards are available , for sale , with the Indian Standards Institution , 
Manak Bhavan , 9 Bahadur Shah ZafarMarg , New Delhi- 1 and also its branch offices at (i) Bombay 
Mutual Terrace, Sandhurst Bridge, Bombay - 7. (ii) Third and Fourth Floors , 5 Chowrunghee App 
roach , Calcutta - 13 , ( ül) Second Floor, Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 General Patters Road , Madras - 2 
and ( iv) 117/ 418 , B , Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanput. 


( No, MD 13 : 2 ] 


SEO. 8 (i )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3405 


Novo Dolhi, the 7th Septomber 1967 
S . O . 3337 : - In pursuance of regulation 4 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certi 
fication Marke Regulations, 1955 , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that amend 
ment (8 ) to the Indian Standard ) given in the schedule hereto annexed have been issued under 
the powers conferred by the sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 3 of the said Regulations, 


THE SCHEDCLE 


Si. 
No, 


No, and title of the 
Indian Standard 

Amended 


No. and date of No, and Brief particulars 
Gazette Noti- date of the of the Amendment 
fication in Amendment 
which the es 
tablishinent 
of the Indlan 
Standard was 
notified 


Date from 
which the 
amendm ent 
ghall have 
effect 


I 


IS : 1675 - 1960 Specifi - 
cation for stearic acid , 
technical 


ones 


S . O . 341 dated (1 ) NO, I (1) Clause 4 . I and 
Ir February , December 1966 table I bave been 
1961 

substituted by new 

Immediate 
(8 ) No. 2 (i ) New clauses effect. 
August 1967 2 , 1 , 1 , B - 3 and 

B - 4 have been 
added . 
Clause 4 . 1 basſ 
been amended . 


2 IS : 2593 - 1964 Specifi- S . O . 4120 No , I (1 ) Clauses 3 - 2 and 31 August 

cation for flexible dated < Decem - August 1967 82 5 have been 1967 
cables for miners , cap ber, 1964 

amended . 
lamps 

(1 ) A new clause 9 
has been added . 


3 TIS : 3167 - 1965 Specifi - 

cation for cap copper 
alloy strip 


$ . O . 664 dated No.2 
5 March , 1966 June 1967 


Clause 7 . I has 
been substituted 

by a new one. 


30 June 
1967 


4 


IS : 3231- 1965 Specifi - 
cation for clectrical 
relays for power 
system protection 


S . O . 664 No, 2 
dated March July 1967 
1966 


31 July 
1967 


A new Note 
number 2 has 
been added and 
the existing note 
numbered as 
Note I , 


5 IS : 3801 - 1966 Specifi - 

cation for GLAVAS 


S .O . 913 dated 

18 March , 
1967 


No, I 
June 1967 


Clause 5 : 3 has 
been amended . 


30 June 
1967 


Copics of these amendment slips are available , free of cost , with the Indian Standards 
Institution , Manak Bhavan , Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg , New Delhi- I and also its branch ofi 
ce at (1) Bombay Mutual Terracem Sandhurst Bridge , Bombay- 7 , ( i ) Third and Fourth Floor 
5 Chowringhee Approach , Calcutta 13 , (ill ) Second Floor , Sathyamurthi Bhavan , 54 General 
Patters Road , Madras and (iv ) 117 /418 Sarvodaya Nagar, Kanpur . 

[No MD /13 :5 ] 


New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 
S . O . 3338 - In pursuance of sub - regulation ( 1 ) of Regulation 8 of the Indian Standards Institution (Certification Marks) Regulations , 1955 , 48 sub 
sequently amended , the Indian Standards Institution hereby notifies that twentythree licences particulars of which are given in the Schedule hereto annered , 
have been granted authorizing the licensees to use the Standard Mark . 


THE SCHEDULE 


Name and Address of the Lic - 

ensee 


Serial Licence No. Period of Validity 
No . and Date 

From 


Article /Process covered by the 

Licence 


Relevant Indian 


Standard 


I CM /L - 1484, 

1 - 8 - 1967 


1-8 -67 


3406.THEGAZETTEORINDIA:SEPTEMBER25,1987/ASVINA1,1889 


2 CML- 1485 

10 - 8 - 1967. 


16 - 8 - 67 


3 


CM / L - 1486 , 
10 - 8 - 1967 


31-7-68 M /s. Tata Fison Industries Ltd , DDT dusting powders IS : 564- 1961 Specification for 
431/ 4 Panchpakhadi Village, 

DDT dusting powders 
Balrajeshwar Road , Mulund , 

( revised ). 
Bombay - 80 baying their office 
at Ralli House , 21 Ravelin Street , 

Fort, Bombay - i . 
15 - 8 - 68 M / s . Foods Fats & Fertilizers Ltd ., Malted milk food containing IS : 2003 - 1962 Specification for 
Tanuku Road, Tadepalligudem , cocoa powder . 

malted milk food containin 
West Godawari Distt. ( A . P . ) hay 

cocoa powder. 
ing their office at 115 - B , N . S . C . 

Bose Road , Madras - 1 . 
15 - 8 - 68 M / s. Tata Fison Industries Ltd ., Copper oxychloride water disper - IS : 1507 - 1966 Specification for 

Plot No . 94 , Industrial Estate, sible powder concentrates. copper oxychloride water dis 
Ambattur , Madras -58 . 

persible powder concentrates 

(revised ). 
9 - 5-68 M /s. Ashwin Industries, Samalya , 18 - litre square tins, 

IS : 916 - 1966 Specification for 18 
Distt. Baroda . 

litre square tins (revised ). 
15 -8 -68 M /s . Assam Bengal Veneer Indus - Tea - Chest metal fittings . IS : 10 - 1964 Specification for 
tries , Pyt. Ltd ., 32 Canal South 

pliwood tea - chests (secorud re 
Road , Calcutta - Is having their 

t son ) . 
office at 9 Clive Row , Cal 

cutta - I. 
15 -8 -68 M /s. Krishna Miners & Traders , BHC dusting powders , 

IS : 561- 1962 Specification for 
12 ladustrial Area , Jaipur West 

BUIC dusting powders (second 
(Rajasthan ). 

Tezision ) . 


16 - 8 -67 


4 


10 - 8 -67 


CM /L - 1487, 

10 - 8 - 1967. 
CM / L - 1488 , 
10 - 8 - 1967. 


5 


16 - 8 - 67 


6 


CM / L - 1489 , 
14 - 8 - 1967 , 


16 -8 -67 


[PARTII 


7 CM / L - 1490 , 

16 - 8 - 1967 . 


16 - 8 -67 


SEC.3(ii)] 


8 


CM / L - 1491, 
16 - 8 - 1967 . 


16 - 8 - 67 


9 CM /L - 1492, 

16 - 8 - 1967. 


16 - 8 -67 


TO 


CM / L - 1493, 
16 - 8 - 1967 


16 - 8 -67 


15 -8 -68 M /s. Polypharm Pvt. Ltd ., 29 , Sulphuric acid analytical reagent is : 266 - 1961 Specification for 
Panchpakhadi, Opp . Castle Mills , grade only . 

sulphuric acid (revised ). 
Khanna Compound , Agra Road , 
Thana , Maharashtra having their 
office at 8 Tamarind Lane, First 
Floor, Spinnder Bldg ., Fort, 

Bombay - 1 . 
15 - 8 -68 M /s , Polypharm Pvt . Ltd ., 29 , Nitric acid analytical reagent IS : 264 - 1950 Spccification for 
Panchpakhadi, Opp . Castle Mills , grade only . 

nitric acid . 
Khanna Compound , Agra Road , 
Thana, Maharashtra having their 
office at 8 Tamarind Lane, First 
Floor, Spinnder Bldg., Fort, 

Bombay - I . 
15 - 8 -68 M /s . Polypharm Pvt. Ltd . 29, Hydrochloric acid analytical re - IS : 265 - 1962 Specification for 
Panchpakhadi, Opp . Castle Mills , agent grade only . 

hydrochloric acid (revised ). 
Khanna Compound , Agra Road , 
Thana, Maharashtra having 
their office at 8 Tamarind Lane, 
First Floor , Spinnder Bldg., Fort 

Bombay - 1 . 
15 - 8 - 68 M /s . Entoma Insecticides & Agro . Endrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
Chemicals ( Kerala ), A - 3 , Shed , 

endrin emulsifiable concentrates . 
Industrial Estate , Clavakot, Pal 
ghat- 2 , (Kerala ) having their 
office at " Ram - Kripa " , Yakkara 

Road , Palghat- 1, (Kerala). 
31- 8 - 68 M /s . Cement Research Corpn . Integral cement water - proofing IS : 2645 - 1964 Specification for 
Pvt. Ltd ., 3 Govinda Banerjee compound . 

integral cement water -proofing 
Lane , Calcutta - 33 , having their 

compound. 
office at 15 Gobinda Banerjee 

Lane, Calcutta - 33 . 
3 1- 8 - 68 M / s. Central Insecticides & Ferti. Malathion water dispersible IS : 2569 - 1963 Specification for 
lizers , Saki Naka, Vihar Lake powder concentrates. 

malathion water dispersible 
Road, Bombay - 70 . 

powder concentrates . 
31 - 8 - 68 M /s . Industrial Minerals & Chemi- DDT dusting powder . 

IS : 564 - 1961 Specification for 
cal Co., Kurla Marol Road, Cha 

DDT dusting powders (revised ). 
kala , Andheri, Bombay - 58 having 
their office at 125 , Narayan Dhuru 

Street, Nagdevi, Bombay - 3 . 
31- 8 -68 M /s. Dhiraj Metal Works , 5 , Mill Wrought aluminium utensils, SIC IS : 21 - 1959 Specification for 
Para , Rajkot- I, Gujarat. 

grade. 

wrought aluminium and alumi 
- - - - - - - - nium alloys for utensils . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER23,1967/ASVINA1,18893407 


1Ỉ 


CM / L - I494, 
22 - 8 - 1967. 


1 - 9 - 67 


1 - 9 -67 


12 CM /L - 1495 , 

22 - 8 - 1967. 
13 CM /L - 1496, 

23 - 8 - 1967. 


1 - 9 - 67 


14 


CM / L - 1497 , 
23 - 8 - 1967. 


1 -9 -67 


(7 ) 


15 CM / L - 1498 , 

25 - 8 - 1967. 


1-967 


16 CM / L - 1499, 

25 - 8 - 1967 . 


1 - 3 -67 


17 


CM / L - 1500 , 
25 - 8 -67. 


1 -967 


18 


CM / L - 1501 , 
29 - 8 - 1967. 


1 - 9 - 67 


3408THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER23,1907/ASVINA1,1889 


30 -8 67 


31 - 8 -68 M /s. Asian Cables Corpo. Ltd ., Hard - drawn stranded aluminium IS : 398 - 1961 Specification for 

Pokbran Road , Thana, Mahara - and steel- cored aluminium hard -drawn stranded aluminium 
shtra State . 

conductors for overhead power and stcel-cored aluminium con 
transmission purposes . 

ductors for overhead power 

transmission purposes . 
31- 8 - 68 M /s . Rajaram & Brothers (Lessces Maize starch for use in the cotton IS : 1184- 1957 Specification for 
the Gwalior Maize Products Ltd . ) tertilc industry . 

maize starch for use in the cot 
Mhow -Neemuch Road , Mand 

ton textile industry . 
saur ( M . P .) . 
31 -8 - 68 M /s. Central Insecticides & Fer- Aldrin dusting powders . IS : 1308 - 1958 Specification for 
tilizers , IIQ , Industrial Estate , 

aldrin dusting powders. 
Indore (M . P .). 
31 -8 -68 M /s. Selective Chemicals Pvt. Ltd ., BHC dusting poyders , 

IS : 561- 1962 Specification for 
Ruvapari Road , Bhavnagar (Guj 

BHC dusting powders (Second 
jarat State) having their office at 

revision ). 
Hexamar House, Sayani Road , 

Bombay - 28 . 
29 - 8 -68 M /s. New Metal Works, 56- E , 18 - litre square tins. 

IS : 916 - 1966 Specification for 
Rasul Jiwa Compound , Clark 

18 - litre square tins (retised ) . 
Road , Jacob Circle, Bombay - 11. 
31 - 8 -68 M / s. Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, Structural steel (standard qua- IS : 226 - 1962 Specification for 
Pokhran Road , Majiwada Vilage lity ) . 

structural steel (standard quality ) 
(Distt. Thana), having their office 

( Thrd rerision ). 
at 24 , Baroda Street, Bom 

bay - 9 . 
31- 8 - 68 M /s. Aeron Steel Rolling Mills, Structural steel (ordinary quality ) IS : 1977 - 1962 Specification for 
Pokhran Road , Majiwada Village 

structural steel (ordinary quali 
(Distt. Thana), having their office 

at 24 , Baroda Street, Bombay - 9 . 
31- 8 -68 M / s. Usha Martin Black (Wire Steel wire for the core of steel. IS : 398 - 1961 Specification for 

Ropes ) Ltd ., Tatisi]wai, Ranchi cored aluminium conductors hard - drawn stranded aluminium 
(Bihar ). 

for Overhead power trans und steel - cored aluminium con 
mission purposes . 

ductors for over -head power 

transmission purposes . 
15 - 9 -68 M / s. Deepak Pulverizers, Kolshet Endrin emulsifiable concentrates IS : 1310 - 1958 Specification for 
Road , Thana Near Power 

endrin emulsifiable concentrat 
House ), 


19 CM / L - 1502, 

30 - 8 -1967. 
20 CM /L -1503 , 

30 - 8 - 1967. 


1- 4- 67 


1 - 4 -67 


21 CM / L - 1504 , 

30-8 -1967 


22 


CM / L - 1505, 
31- 8 - 1967 


1- 9 -67 


23 CM / L - 1506 , 

31 - 8 - 1967. 


16 - 9 - 67 


[PARTII 


INo. MD /33 : 16 ] 


$ zo, 8 (t )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3409 


New Delhi, the 12th September 1987 
$ . 0 . 3339 . — In pursuance of sub -rule ( 1 ) of rule 4 of the Indian stan 
dards Institution ( Certification Marks ) Rules , 1955 the Indian Standards Institu 
tion hereby notifies that the Standard Mark , design of which together with the 
verbal description of the design and the title of the relevant Indian Standard is 
given in the Schedule hereto annexed , has been specified . 

This Standard Mark for the purpose of the Indian Standard Institution (Certi 
Acation Marks ) Act, 1952 and the Rules and Regulations framed thereunder shall 
come into force with effect from 16 August 1987 : 


THE SCHEDULE 


şi. 
No, 


Design of the Stan - 

dard Mark 


Product/Class of 

Product 


No. and Title of 
the Relevant In - 
dign Standard 


Verbal description of the 
Design of the Standard 
Mark 


T2 


2 . 


IS : 3794 


Liverpool twill 
( L - twill ) bags 


IS :3794 - 1966 
Specification for 
Liverpool twill 
(L -twill ) bags 


The monogram of the 
Indian Standards Institu 
tion consisting of letters 
ISI , drawn in the exact 
Style and relative propor 
tlong as indicated in col ( 2 ) 
the number designation of 
the Indian Standard being 
superscribed on the top 
side of the monogram as 
indicated in the design . 


[No. MD / 17: 2.) 
(DR.) SADGOPAL , 
Deputy Director General.. 


MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT AND SHIPPING 

( Transport Wing ) 

MERCHANT SHIPPING 

New Delhi, the 7th September 1967 
$ . 0 . 3340. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by Section 218 of the Merchant 
Shipping Act , 1958 ( 44 of 1958 ) , read with rules 3 and 4 of the National Welfare 
Board for Seafarers Rules, 1963, the Central Government hereby makes the 
following further amendment in the Notification of the Government of India in 
the late Ministry of Transport and Aviation Department of Transport , Shipping 
and Tourism ( Transport Wing ) No. S . O . 1883 , dated the 16th June, 1966 , namely S 

In the sair Notifcation for the existing entries against Serial No. 14 , the 
following entries shall be substituted : 
" Labour Commissioner , 

Representative of the 
Calcutta , West Bengal. 

Government of West Bengal." 

[No . 14 -MT(14 ) / 65 . ] 


New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 


S . O . 3341 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 218 of the Merchant 
Shipping Act, 1958 (44 of 1958 ) , read with rules 3 and 4 of the National Welfare 
Board for Seafarers Rulos , 1983, the Central Government hereby makes the follow 
ing further amendment in the NotiAcation of the Government of India in late 


3410 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1987 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


Ministry of Transport and Avlation , Department of Transport, Shipping and 
Tourism ( Transport Wing ) No. S . O . 1883 , dated the 16th June, 1968 , namely : 

In the said notification for the existing entries against serial number 23 , the 
following entries shall be substituted : -- 

" Deputy Conservator, 
Madras Port, Madras. 

Representative of the 
Madras Port Trust." 

[No. 14 -MT( 14 ) / 65 . ] 
B . B . LAL , Under Secy . 


MINISTRY OF TOURISM AND CIVIL AVIATION 

( Dopartment of Tourism ) 

New Delhi, the 15th September 1967 
S . O . 3342 . - In pursuance of sub - clause ( b ) of clause 2 of the Imported Tourist 
Cars (Control ) Order , 1961 and in partial supersession of the Notification of the 
Government of India in the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation ( Department 
of Tourism ) No. S . O . 1753 , dated 20th May , 1967, the Central Government hereby 
appoints Shri S . K . Roy , Director General, Ministry of Touth and Civil Avia 
tion , Government of India , to be the Controller of Imported Tourist Cars for the 
purposes of the said Order , in addition to Shri S . D . Khanna. 

[No. 4 - TTA ,I ( 58 ) /65.] 

R . C . DUTT, Secy. 


MINISTRY OF LABOUR , EMPLOYMENT AND REHABILITATION 

(Department of Labour & Employment ) 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
S . O . 3343. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under section 33A of the 
said Act from Shri Ramdeb Chamar Dresser C / Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Rani 
ganj, Burdwan , which was received by the Central Government on the 1st Septem 
ber, 1967. 


CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

Misc . APPLICATION No. 4 OF 1967 

UNDER SEC . 33A OF I.D . ACT 

(Arising out of Reference No. 86 of 1966 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Ramdeb Chamar , Dresser, 

C / Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, 
Raniganj, Burdwan , 

. . . . Applicant. 

Vs. 
The Manager, 

Ramnagar Colliery . 
P . O . Pandaveswar , Burdwan , 

. . . . Opp. Party . 
PRESENT: 

Shri S . K . Sen , Presiding Officer, 
APPEARANCZS : 

On behalf of Applicant - Shri Parlma) Das Gupta, Advocate, 
On behalf of Opp. Party . Shri S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate , 


BC . 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3411 


AW 33A of the messer en the 


STATE : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY: Coal Mining . 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act Aled by 
Shri Ramdeb Chamar who used to work as a Dresser at Ramnagar Colliery . 
According to the applicant, he is a member of the branch of the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha at Ramnagar ; the management of Ramnagar Colliery pursued a policy of 
crushing the branch of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha and falsely chargesheeted the 
applicant on 27th June, 1966 on the allegation of attempting to sabotage the under 
ground work by cutting or perforating the high voltage electric cable running 
underground from which drillers obtain the necessary power for operating drill 
ing machine. After receiving applicant s reply denying the charge , the manage 
ment held an enquiry at which the applicant was denied natural justice. The 
management after the enquiry passed an order of dismissal on 4th August, 1966 . 
According to the applicant, the order was bad on merits and also was because at 
that time another dispute concerning the workmen of Ramnagar Colliery , namely 
Reference No. 86 of 1966 , was pending and no application had been made to the 
tribunal for approval of the order of dismissal. 

2. The management in Its rejoinder has raised the preliminary objection that 
the application is barred on two grounds, firstly , because Ramdeb Chamar was not 
concerned in the dispute in Reference No. 86 of 1966 , and secondly , because that 
reference case was pending at the time of Ramdeb Chamar s dismissal before the 
tribunal at Dhanbad and that the application under Section 33A of the Industrial 
Disputes Act should , therefore , have been made before Dhanbad Tribunal, and 
the application made before the transferee tribunal, Calcutta is incompetent. On 
merits , the management s case is that the order of dismissal was passed on the 
result of the enquiry of which the workman was given every opportunity to de 
fend himself, and there was no victimisation on account of trade union activities. 

3 . As regards the first preliminary objection , Shri Parimal Das Gupta has 
relied on the decision 1960 I LLJ 551 ( S . C .) , New India Motors Limited , New 
Delhi vs. K . T . Morris . Therein , it was held that the expression " workmen 
concerned in such dispute " could not be limited only to such of the workmen 
who are directly concerned in the dispute in question but include all workmen 
on whose behalt the dispute has been raised as well as those who would be 
bound by the award which may be made in the said dispute , Shri Das Gupta 
has urged that the previous dispute was raised by the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha 
and therefore all the workmen who were member of the Colliery Mazdoor 
Sabha , were concerned in that dispute , and the present applicant being a mem 
ber of the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha was also concerned in the previous disputes , 
Shri S . S . Mukherjee on behalf of the management has pointed out that the deci 
sion in New India Motors Limited V8. K , T . Morris has been explained by a subse 
quent declsion of the Supreme Court, 1964 II LLJ 143. Digwadih Colliery 25, 
Ramjee Singh , where it is laid down that unless the nature of the pending dis 
pute was ascertained and considered , it could not be said that concerned work 
man was a workman concerned in the pending dispute simply on the ground 
that there was a reference pending ; and that it is necessary that the workman 
should satisfy the tribunal by proving the nature of the dispute pending that 
he is concerned therein . In that case , the pending dispute concerned a claim 
by Peons and Watchmen for overtime wages . The workman who Aled the 
application under Section 33A was a clerk of Grade III, The Supreme Court 
held that he was not concerned in the pending dispute . In New India Motors 
Limited vs. K . T . Morris , the pending dispute was similar in nature to the dispute 
of the applicant K , T . Morris ; K . T . Morris s dispute concerned the termination 
of his service and the pending dispute also concerned termination of service 
of several apprentices who had been employed in the company. In the present 
case, the applicant, Ramdeb Chamar , made no attempt to prove the nature of 
the dispute which was pending . In his application under Section 33A there is 
merely a mention of the pending reference Case No. 88 of 1966 and no attempt 
has been made even during the hearing to state the nature of the dispute which 
was the subject matter of that case and to explain how Ramdeb Chamar was 
concerned in that dispute . For this defect alone, the application under Section 
33A is liable to fail, As held by the Supreme Court in Digwadih Colliery vs. 
Ramjee Singh . On reference to the record of Reference Case No . 86 of 1966 . it 
appears that it concerned 2 workmen who were placed on the badli list for 
overstaying their leave by more than 10 days without obtaining an order for 
extension of their leave . The award in that case could not possibly bind other 
workmen , In the circumstances I must agree with Shri Mukherjee that accord 
ing to the standard laid down in the latest Suprome Court case , Ramdeb Chamar 
was not concerned in the previous dispute and therefore his application is liable 
to fail . 


3412 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[Part II 


4 . As regards the second objection also , I think it must prevail. The previs 
ous dispute was referred to the Dhanbad Tribunal for adjudication by an order 
dated 17th February , 1966 , By a order of transfer dated 6th September , 1966 that 
reference case was transferred to the Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta . But the 
Order of dismissal of Ramdeb Chamar was passed on 4th August , 1986 when the 
Reference case was still pending before the Dhanbad Tribunal. Section 33 A 
runs at follows, " Where an employer contravenes the provisions of Section 33 
during the pendency of proceedings before a Labour Court, Tribunal or National 
Tribunal, any employee aggrieved by such contravention may make a complaint 
in writing in the prescribed matter to such Labour Court, Tribunal or National 
Tribunal . . . " . The words " such Labour Court, Tribunal or National tribunal" 
must refer to the Labour Court . Tribunal or National Tribunal before which the 
dispute was pending when the alleged contravention took place . Therefore , the 
application should be made to such tribunal only . In the present case it should 
have been made before the Dhanbad Tribunal. After the dismissal order , the 
case was still before the Dhanbad tribunal for over one month and the applicant, 
therefore , certainly could have filed an application in time before that Tribunal. 
But the application was filed before the Industrial Tribunal Calcutta on 22nd 
May , 1987. It must be held , therefore , that the application was not made before 
the proper tribunal. Shri Das Gupta has urged that the wordings " such Labour 
Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal" should be interpreted to include the 
Labour Court, Tribunal or National tribunal to which the pending case may have 
been transferred . But the wording of Section 33A does not admit of that inter 
pretation . The application under Section 33A has to be fled before the Labour 
Court , Tribunal or National Tribunal where a proceeding was pending at the 
time when Section 33 n as contrayened by an employer . The words " guch 
Labour Court, Tribunal or National Tribunal" cannot be interpreted to include 
also any Labour Court . Tribunal or National Tribunal to which the case may 
have been subsequently transferred . 


5 . On merits also , I must find that the applicant has no case . The enguiry 
in this case was held by Shri B . P . Verma, Welfare Officer of Ramanagar Collery. 
He stated that he recorded the evidence of management s witnesses in the pre 
Bence of Ramdeb and Bhagwat who was also charge - sheeted along with Ramdeb . 
and read out and explained the evidence and gave opportunity to the delinquents 
to cross examine the witnesses . He also recorded their statements and give them 
opportunity to produce their defence witnesses which they did not . The inquiry 
was held on 30th July , 1986 . It is true that the workman sent by registered post 
a letter. Ext. 3 , dated 31st July , 1966 complaining against the conduct of the 
enquiry officer in refusing to allow a co - worker to assist him and to examine his 
witnesses . But the management replied to that letter on 6th August 1966 , vide 
Ext. C , that the allegations against the enquiring officer were not true . There 
is also the evidence of the enquiring officer that he never refused the workman 
an opportunity to bring a co -worker to help him or to produce witnesses for 
his defence . In fact , in the enqulry proceerlings, Ex . D . the enquiring Officer 
took the precaution of making a note signed by another independent workman 
that he asked Ramdeb Chamar and Bhagwat Pasi to submit a list of defence 
witnesses and to bring a co - worker to help them if necessary , but they stated 
that they did not need the help of a co -worker and had no witness to examine 
In their defence, This endorsement is signed by another workman , Jagnath 
Kah , I must hold therefore that the enquiry was properly held , 


6 . Shri Das Gupta has pointed out that there is a mistake in the charge -sheet 
in as much as the date of the misconduct is noted as " 9th June, 1966 " and " 24th 
1946 " . Though there is a mistake in typing out the date , it is clear that the 
management meant the date 24th June, 1966 and this was made clear during the 
enquiry when the witnesses clearly referred to the date 24th June . The evi . 
dence was recorded in the presence of the workman and was read out and 
explained to him In the circumstances, I must hold that there was no prejudice 
caused by the mistake contained in the charge- sheet as to the second date of 
misconduct . Shri Das Gupta has finally urged that there was no direct evidence 
that Ramdeb Chamar had been seen cutting or perforating the high voltage 
cable , and that the management discriminated against Ramdeb Chamar inasmuch 
as the co - accused Bhagwat Pasi was retained in service and not punished as the 
result of the enquiry . A perusal of the evidence recorded at the enquiry and ota 
the report of the enquiry officer shows that there was no direct evidence that 
Ramdeb Chamar had cut or perforated the high voltage cable from which the 
drillers obtained their power for drilling the coal face , but there was strong 
circumstantial evidence that on 24th June 1966 Ramdeb Chamar had done so . 
whereas the evidence against Bhagwat Pasi was weak , Regarding 9th June 1968 
there was very little evidence but only a surmise by the management that since . 


lec, 8( li) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3413 


Ramdeb Chamar was concerned in thus damaging high voltage cable on 24th 
June 1966 he must also have been concerned in doing the same on 9th June, 
11988 because on that date also the high voltage cable had been found cut or 
perforated and put out of action after Ramdeb Chamar and another had worked 
as dressers at the spot. The enquiring officer, therefore , confined his finding to 
24th June , 1966 and pointed out that there was strong circunstancial evidence 
that on that day Ramdeb Chamar had cut or perforated the high voltage cable 
and attempted to sabotage the mine, but that the evidence against Bhagwat Pasi 
was very weak , The management also based their order on the proved mis 
conduct of 24th June, 1968 . It was also natural that in the face of the finding , 
the management should have given Bhagwat Pasi the benefit of doubt. This 
cannot be considered as discrimination . 

Hence Ramdeb Chamar s application must fail on the preliminary grounds as 
well as on merits The application is therefore dismissed . My award is that the 
action of the Management of Ramnagar Colliery in dismissing Shri Ramdeb 
Chamar with effect from 4th August , 1966 was justified , and the applicant work 
man is not entitled to any relief. 

( Sd .) S . K . Sen 
Dated , Calcutta 

Presiding Officer . 
29th August , 1967 , 

[NO, 6 / 118 / 65 - LRII. ) 


8 . 0 . 3344 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947). the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Calcutta , in the matter of an application under section 33A 
of the said Act from Shri Kirti Singh , C / o Colliery Mazdoor Sabha, Post Office 
Raniganj. District Burdwan , which was received by the Central Government on 
the 1st September, 1967 . 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA . 

MISC. APPLICATION No. 7 OF 1967 

UNDER SEC . 33A OF I. D . ACT . 

(Arising out of Reference No. 95 of 1966 ) 
PARTIES : 
Shri Kirti Singh, C / o . Colllery Mazdoor Sabha, P .O . Ranigan ), Dist . Burdwan 
- Applicant. 

V8. 
The Manager , Kendra Colliery , P . O . Pandaveswar , Dist. Burdwan . 

- Opposite Party . 
PRESENT : 

Shri S . K . Sen - Presiding Officer . 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Applicant. - Shri Parimal Das Gupta , Advocate. 

On behalf of Opposite Party . — Shrl S . S . Mukherjee, Advocate, 
STATE : West Bengal. 

INDUSTRY ; Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
This is an application under Section 33A of the Industrial Disputes Act by Shri 
Kirti Singh previously employed as a Night Watchman at Kendra Colliery. Ac 
cording to Kirti Singh s case, he served for 17 or 18 years under the Samla Collleries 
Limited and worked as Nightguard for 14 or 15 years at Ramnagar colliery and in 
1965 he was transferred to Kendra and was working there until he was charge 
sheeted on 1st April 1966 , and dismissed on 24th May 1966 . According to the 
applicant, a false chargesheet was Alled against him for victimising him , as his son 
Sadanand Singh was taking a leading part in the activities of the branch of the 
Colllery Mazdoor Sabha at Kendra colliery , and the applicant, Kirti Singh , when 
asked to make his son give up his connection with the Colliery Mazdoor Sabha , 
expressed his inability to do 80 . The misconduct alleged against Kirti Singh was 
that he was found sleeping on duty when posted as a Nightguard in the night of 
31st March / 1st April, 1966 . According to the applicant. the charge was a talse 
one and at the enqutry he was donied natural Justice and therefore the order of 


3414 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


dismissal was bad . He claimed that the order of dismissal was also bad because 
at that time Reference case No . 95 of 1966 was pending and no application under 
Section 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Industrial Disputes Act for approval of the order of dis 
missal was Aled by the management. 

2 . The management has raised preliminary objections as to the maintainability of 
the application under Sec. 33A , and on merits the management has claimed that 
the order of dismissal was passed on the result of domestic enquiry which was 
held tatrly giving every chance to the applicant to defend himself, and there was 
no victimisation because of Kirti Singh s inability or unwilingness to prevent his 
son Sadanand Singh from taking an active part in the work of the branch of the 
Colliery Mazdoor Sabha at Kendra Colllery . 

3 . The Arst preliminary objection raised is that the applicant Kirti Singh was 
not concerned in the pending dispute and that he made no attempt to show that 
he was concerned . It was held by the Supreme Court in 1964 II LLJ 143, Digwadih 
Colliery vs . Ramjee Singh that it is necessary that the workman should satisfy the 
tribunal by proving the nature of the dispute pending that he is concerned 
therein . In the present case the applicant, Kirti Singh , made no attempt to do so 
In his evidence he made no reference to the previous pending case and in his appll 
cation there is merely a mention of Reference No. 95 of 1966 . In view of the 
Şupreme Court ruling, I must agree that the application is liable to fail because 
the applicant has not shown that he is concerned in the dispute which was pend 
ing. It has appeared on a reference to the record of Reference Case No. 95 of 
1986 that dispute concerned suspension of 3 miners who assaulted a loader when 
working underground . It is clear that the Nightguard whose duty is to guard at 
night on the surface was not concerned in that dispute . Accordingly the Arst 
objection must be sustained . 

4 . The second objection is that the application under Section 33A should have 
been Aled before the Dhanbad tribunal because at the time when the order of 
dismissal was passed on Kirti Singh i. e . 24th May 1966 , the proceedings concem 
ing the suspension of 3 miners was pending before the Dhanbad tribunal. The 
dispute had been referred for adjudication by Dhanbad tribunal by an order dated 
21st March 1966 and it was pending before Dhanbad tribunal until 5th September , 
1966 , because the order of transfer of the case to Calcutta tribunal was passed on 
6th September , 1966 . Section 33A provides that when an employer contravenes 
the provisions of Section 33 during the pendency of any proceedings before a Labour 
Court , Tribunal or National Trſbunal, any employee aggrieved by such contraven 
tion may make a complaint to such Labour Court. Tribunal or National Tribunal. 
The complaint in writing under Sec . 33A must be made before the Tribunal before 
which the proceedings were pending . There is nothing in the wording of Sec . 33A 
to indicate that such an application may be fled before the Tribunal to which 
the case may have been subsequently transferred . In this case the order of dis 
missal was passed against Kirti Singh on 24th May 1966 and before the transfer 
of the proceedings to Calcutta, he had more than 3 months time to nle the appll 
cation before Dhanbad Tribunal. He however omitted to do so and only on 22nd 
May 1967 he filed an application before the Tribunal at Calcutta . It must be held 
that the application is incompetent. 

5 . On merits also I must find that Kirti Singh has no case. The enquiry was 
held by Vishnu S . Prasad , Labour Officer, Kendra who gave evidence before the 
tribunal and proved the enquiry proceedings, Ext. G and the report submitted by 
him Ext. H . The inquiry was held on 3rd May 1966 . It is true that the applicant, 
Kirti Singh , complained by a letter dated 4th May , 1966 sent by registered post 
(Ext C ) that he had not been given opportunity to call a co -worker to 
help him at the enquiry and to examine his defence witness . But in 
reply to this letter Ext. D on 11th May 1966 , stating that the complaint 
against the enquiring officer was false but the workman was being given a 
further opportunity to defend himself and that he might appear with his co 
worker to help him and his detence witnesses before the enquiring officer on 21st 
May 1968 at 3 P . M . Kirti Singh said that he did appear before the enquiring officer 
on any other date , but the enquiring officer has stated that on 21st May 1986 the 
workman did appear before him and the witnesses for the managernent were 
present on that day and they were tenderd for cross examination , but the workman 
refused to cross examine them , and the enquiring officer recorded a note which has 
been marked Ext . G1. It appears that Kirti Singh stated on the day that he had 
already taken part in the enquiry and that the management was harassing him 
again after the enquiry had been completed ; and that when the enquiring officer 
told him about the contents of the letter , dated 4th May 1966 (Ext. C ), the workman 
replied that he had no knowledge of the complaint. The letter , Ext- C . was written 
by the union oficials in English and the signature of Kirti Singh in Hindi wag 


SFC . ( )] 


THE GAZETTI OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1987 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3415 


obtained on it before sending the letter to the management. It must be held that 
complaint herein was without substance . 


6 . Shri Das Gupta has urged that the management was displeased with Kirti 
Singh because Kirti Şingh could not or did not control his son Sadananda Singh 
from taking a prominent part in the working of the Laljhanda Union . In this 
connection , Shri Das Gupta referred to the letters Ext . 6 . 7 and 8 which are replies 
received by the Vice -President of Colliery Mazdoor Sabha from the A . L . C . ( C ), 
Raniganj or R . L . C . (C ), Dhanbad in reply to complaints sent by the Vice-President, 
Ext. 17 dated 28th October , 1965. It referred to the Vice - President s letter dated 
1st October 1965 , and enclosed a copy of letter dated 19th October 1965 received 
from the Agent, Samla Collierles Limited in reply to the allegations. The annexure 
to the letter is the copy of the letter of the Agent of Samla Collleries Limited . There 
in it is denied that eiher Sadananda Singh Or Kirti Singh was being harassed 
because of Sadananda s trade union activities and that whatever disciplinary action 
might be taken against them it would be only for proved misconduct. Ext. 8 is 
copy of a letter from the R . L , C . ( C ) , Dhanbad , dated 11th November, 1965 that 
he would visit Kendra colliery on 24th November 1965 , at 4 P . M . for enquiry into the 
alleged harassing of Sadananda Singh and Kirti Singh . The original letter was directed 
to the Agent, Samla Collleries Limited and Ext. 8 is the endorsement on a copy which 
was sent to the Vice -President of the Colllery Mazdoor Sabha, There is no evidence and 
no letter proved hy the union to indicate what happened as a result of the enquiry . 
Ext . 6 which is a letter dated 10th January 1986 from the A . L . C . ( C ) , Ranigant 
to the Vice -President, Colllery Mazdoor Sabha in which A , L , C , speaks of the 
assurance given by the management that Kirti Singh would be transferred as 
little as possible from one mine to another and that he would normally be kept 
at Ramnagar or Kendra only . This apparently is a reply to the allegation that 
Kirti Singh was frequently being transferred in order to harass him . During the 
ovidence however it has not hppeared that Kirtt Singh was being transferred 
frequently , Kirti Singh stated that he was working at Ramnagar colliery for 14 
or 15 years and in 1965 he was transferred to Kendra . There is therefore no 
reason to think that he was transferred frequently in order to harass him . 


7 . The present order of dismissal was passed on the result of the enquiry ; 
there was direct evidence given at the enquiry that Kirti Singh who is an old 
man of 65 years or above was found sleeping on duty in the night of 31st March / 
1st April, 1968 . The enquiry was also fairly held and it cannot therefore be said 
that Kirti Singh was victimised because of any grudge against him by the manage 
ment. The union proved certain letters to show that on some previous occasion , the 
management had asked Kirti Singh to appear before the Chief Medical Omcer of 
the Colliery for report about his fitness , vide Ext , 3 dated 18th September , 1985 ; 
when Kirti Singh in reply refused to appear before the Chief Medical Omcer stating 
that he was At vide Ext. 4 the management did not take any action . This however 
does not show that the management wanted to get rid of Kirti Singh on whatever 
plea was available . If the management had such intention they would have in 
sisted on Kirti Şingh s appearing before the Chief Medical Omcer for testing his 
htness. On a consideration of all the evidence I find that on merits also there is 
nothing to Interfere with the order of dismissal passed on Kirti Singh . 


Thus the application fails on the preliminary grounds as well as on merits and 
is dismissed . My award is that the Management, Kendra Colllery , was justified 
in dismissing the applicant Kirti Singh on 24th May 1966 and the applicant is not 
entitled to any relief, 


Dated , Calcutta, the 29th August , 1967. 

( Sa .) S . K . SEN, 

Presiding Omcer . 

[No. 8 / 68 / 65-LRII. I 
New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 


S . O . 3345 . — In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Shampur Colliery of Kamala Coal Company , Post Office Mugma 
District Dhanbad and their workmen , which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 8th September , 1967. 


3416 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM 

LABOUR COURT, JABALPUR . 

CAMP AT ALLAHABAD 

Dated August 14 , 1967 
PRESENT : 

Sri G . C . Agarwala - Presiding Officer . 

REFERENCE No. 124 OF 1964 (DHANBAD TRIBUNAL ) 

REFERENCE No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 59 ) OF 1987 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 
In the matter of an Industrial dispute in relation to Shampur Colliery of Kamala 
Coal Company Post Office Mugna , District Dhanbad and their workmen . 
-APPEARANCES : 

For the employers — None 

For the workmen - None. 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine 

DISTRICT : Dhanbad ( Bihar) 

AWARD 
By Notification No . 2 / 117 / 64 -LR - II dated 9th November 1964 the Ministry of 
Labour & Employment, Government of India , referred the following matter of dis 
pute as stated in the schedule to the order of reference to the Central Government 
Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , for adjudication . The case remained pending before 
the said Tilbunal from 14th November 1964 till it was transferred to this Tribunal 
by Notifcation No. 8 / 25 / 67 -LRII dated 25th April 1967 . 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the unemployment from the 18th June 1984 of Shri Jag Narain 

Singh , Night Guard of Kamala Coal Company s Shampur Colliery was 
caused by the management of the said colliery and if so, whether 

it was justified ? If not, to what relief is he entitled ? 
After usual notice to parties , it was intimated that the matter was heing nego 
tiated for settlement. On 18th July 1967 a compromise petition signed on behalt 
of both the parties was filed , terms of which are reproduced in the annexure . Since 
the Union s representative WAS not present a notice was sent to Union to show 
cause why the petition should not be accepted as a bonafide settlement of the dis 
pute and if no objection was Aled , the petition would be accepted as a genuine 
settlement of the dispute . Inspite of notice to the Union , no objection has been 
filed and therefore the petition has been taken as a genuine settlement of the dis 
pute . From the terms of the petition It appears that on payment of Rs. 357 / - by 
the management the dispute has been settled and an award , therefore , is recorded 
in terms of the settlement. 


$ d / - G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Omcer . 


ANNEXURE 


"BEFORE THE HON BLE PRESIDING OFFICER , INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL 
CUM -LABOUR COURT (CENTRAL ) AT JABALPUR : 

REFERENCE No. 124 OF 1964 


PARTIES : 
Employers in relation to Shampur (Colliery of M / s . Kamala Coal Co , P . O . 
Mugma (Dhanbad ). 

AND 
Thein workmen . 
- Joint Petition of Parties 

The parties aforesaid most respectfully beg to submit as under : 
( 1 ) The matter covered by the statement has been amicably settled by mutual 

negotiation between the parties . 


SEC $( 11)] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3417 


( 2 ) As a result of the negotiation , the management has agreed to make certain 

payment to the applicant which the applicant has agreed to accept 

in full and final settlement of all claims, 
( 3 ) The management paid a sum of Rs. 357 / - (Rs. Three hundred Afty seven 

only ) to the workmen this day. 
(4 ) It is therefore , prayed that the Hon ble Tribunal may kindly drop the 
proceedings. 


For this act of kindness the parties shall ever pray . 
Sd./ - R . R . GOSWAMI, 

Sd ./-K . K . MUKHERJEE , 
7 - 7 -87. 

7-7-67 
Proprietor , 

General Secretary , 
Shampur Colliery 

Nirsha Thana Coal field & Workshop 
Kamala Coal Co., 

Worker s Union , 
wP . O . Mugma, Dhanbad . 

P . O . Nirshachati, Dhanbad , 
For the Employer . 

For the Worlmen . 
Dated 7th July , 1967. 


PART OF AWARD 

Sd . / - G . C . AGARWALA 

Presiding Officer , 
Central Govt. Industrial Tribunal-cum 
Labour Court, Jabalpur, 

14 -8 -67 
[No. 2 / 117 / 64 -LRII . ] 


S . O . 8346 . In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 oC 1947 ) , the Central Government hcreby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal , Jabalpur, in the Industrial Dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Pure Kustore Colliery , Post Office Kusunda (Dhanbad ) and 
their workmen , which was rccelved by the Central Government on the 8th 
September , 1967. 


BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL - CUM -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 


Dated August 10 , 1967 
PRESENT : 
Sri G . C . Agarwala - Presiding Officer. 

REFERENCE NO. 30 OF 1964 (DHANBAD TRIBUNAL ) 
REFERENCE No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 16 ) / 67 (JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 


In the matter of an Industrial Dispute in relation to Pure Kustore Colliery , Post 
Office Kusunda, District Dhanbad ( Bihar ) and its workmen . 


APPEARANCES : 

For the Employers - S / Sri S. Mukerji, Advocate and B . Mukerjee , Chief 

Personnel Omcer of the Company . 
For the Workkmen - Sri Raj Ballabh Prasad , Secretary and Sri Prasant 

Burman . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine . 

DISTRICT : Dhanbad (Bihar). 

AWARD 
By Notlication No 2 / 28 / 64- LRII , dated 20th March , 1964 the Ministry of 
Labour and Employment referred the following matter of dispute to the Central 
Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , for adjudication from where it was 


3418 THE GAZETTI OF INDIA : SITTEMBER 28 , 1967PASVINA I, 18 


[PART IL 


transferred to this Tribunal vide Notification No. 8 / 25 / 67 -LRII , dated 25th April , 
1967 ; 

Matter of Dispute 
Whether the termination of services of the following workmen with effect 

from the 30th December , 1963 by the management of Pure Kustore 
Colliery was justified ? If not , to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 
1 . Sheodat Chamar . 

8 . Wokil Chamar. 
2 Chhotu Chamar. 

9 . Pancham Koeri . 
Bishram Chamar . 

10. Alqu Bhar. 
4 . Rambachan Chamar . 

11. Balkaran Bhar. 
5 . Seodas Ahir ( Jadav ) . 

12 . Bachan Bhar . 
6 . Ramnath Kumhar 

13 . Mithu Kalwar . 
Darshan Rajbhar . 
2 . The case remained pending before the Dhanbad Tribunal from 28th March , 
1964 till it was transferred to this Tribunal vide Notification dated 25th April, 1967. 

3. Parties fled their statements of claim before the Dhanbad Tribunal and 
the workmen also Aled their rejoinder before the sald Tribunal. Employers, howa 
ever . Alled their rejoinder before this Tribunal on 9th June, 1967, at the preliminary 
hearing at Allahabad when on the basis of the pleadings certain issues were framed . 
Evidence was recorded on 21st July , 1967 - Dhanbad when parties Aled certain 
documents The workmen examined three witnesses S / Shri Raj Ballabh Prasad 
( W . W . 1 ) , Alku Rajbhar ( W . W . 2 ) and Vokil Chamar ( W . W . 3 ) . The employers 
examined two witnesses , S / Shri N . C . Dutta ( E . W . l ) and B . Mukerjee ( E . W . 2 ) : 
After arguments were concluded , the employers were required to Ale a comparative 
Beniority list of all Miners in Pits No. 2 and 4 which was done on 27th July , 1967 
supported by an affldavit of Sri B . Mukerjee . The workmen were required to 
Ale a counter -affidavit on the question of the accuracy of the list by 7th August , 
1967 which they failed to do . The seniority list, therefore , has been treated as 
correct. 

4 The facts leading to the dispute are that the management of Pure Kustore 
Colliery has been running two Pits Nos . 2 and 4 , No. 2 is known as Alkuda Colliery 
and No . 4 as Pure Kustore Colliery . According to the management in Pit No. 4 , 
two sections, the top and bottom , were being worked when in December, 1963 
they received directions from the Coal Board to discontinue developing the bottom 
Section during the extraction of coal in the top section . Consequently , out of 
20 gallaries which are being worked 5 gallaries had to be stopped . Some miners , 
therefore , became surplus and 25 of them including the 13 concerned workmen 
mentioned in the schedule to the order of reference had to be retrenched They 
were all those who had not rendered one year continuous service. As such , all 
the 25 miners were issued individual notices on 28th December , 1963 intimating 
that their services would stand terminated with effect from 30th December , 1983 . . 
Four of these workmen accepted full and Anal settlement. Subsequently , it was 
Intimated on behalf of the management by an application dated 30th November , 
1964 that five more workmen namely , Ram Nath Kumhar (Sl. No. 6 ) . Dərshan 
Rajbhar ( Sl. No. 7 ) , Pancham Kceri ( Sl . No. 9 ) , Balkaran Bhar ( $ l. No . 11) and 
Mithu Kalwar ( Sl. No . 13 ) voluntarily accepted payment in full and Anal settle 
ment of their claims and had no grievance left in the dispute. It may be men 
tioned that these persons also individually intimated the fact to the Tribunal 
out of whom Balkaran Bhar ( Sl. No. 11) however , subsequently withdrew his 
application . For the dispute in question , it was stated that the management has 
bad no knowledge if the workmen concerned were members of Khan Mazdoor 
Congress. It was further averted that the Khan Mazdoor Congress was not com 
petent to sponsor the dispute and the dispute was not an Industrial Dispute 

5 . The Union , Khan Mazdoor Congress , pleaded that they had şuficient number 
of workers of this colliery as their members as may as about 200 and all the 
concerned workmen were members of their Union prior to the date of retrench 
ment The dispute , therefore , was an Industrial Dispute . It was denied that 
Pits No . 2 and 4 were separate mine, but they were one establishment. The 
Seniority of both the pits , therefore , will have to be considered in applying the 
principle of last come first go in the matter of retrenchment. It was further 
pleaded that there was no justification for the retrenchment and even if 5 gallarles 
had to be closed at the bottom section of Pit No. 4 , there were other faces 
Available both in this pit and in Pit No . 2 , where these retrenched workmen could 
have been cmployed . The retrenchment of these workers was malafide with a 
vie - r to victimise them to having joined this Union , Khan Mazdoor Congress, 
which had extended its actlvities to this colliery in order to protect the interest 


SEG, 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1849 3419 


of workers as a rival union was a pocket union of the managem :nt. Further, 
it was contended that the concerned urkmen had put in more tio cnc rear s 
service and could not be retrenched them vithout compliance with the provisions 
of Sec . 25 - F of I . D Act read with Rule 76 of I. D . (Central) Rules . The retranch 
ment, there ore, was illegal anni in narative. It *fr9s also brought about against 
the provisions of the Standing Orders . The fact that some of the workers had 
accepted their payment subsequent to retrenchment was of not consequence and 
was not a compromise or settlement of the dispute On the pleadings of the 
parties the following additional issues were framed : 

Additional Issues 
(i ) Whether the concernej workmen were members of Khan Mazdoor 

orgress . To the dispute an Industrial Dispute ? 
( ii) Whether pits numbers 2 and 4 were separate mines . If not, could the 

employers treat each as smarate for purposes of retrenchment ? 
( iii) Whether the 13 concerned workmen had not put in more than one year 

service and were not entitled to retrenchment benefits ? 
(iv ) Was there sufficient justification for retrenchment? Was it ma afide and 

motivated for victimisation ? 
( v ) Has it been brought about in accordance with rules and law . 
( vi) Was termination of services brought about in accordance with the stand 

ing orders ? 
(vii ) Whether some of the workmen and if so , which , have compromised and 

settled the dispute with the employers. It s effect ? 


Findings : 
6 . Issue No. 1. -- To prove membership of the 13 concerned workmen Sri Raj 
Ballabh Prasad , Secretary of the Union came in evidence as W . W . 1 . He filed 
Counterfoi? Receipt Books ( Ex . W / 1 ) to ( Ex . W / 9 ) . This would show that all 
the concerned workmen became members of the Union on 19th November , 1963 . 
The Counterfoil receipts are contained in these exhibits . He further stated that 
there were about 2CO workers of this colliery who were members of his Union . 
The Membership Register could not be produced as it had been filed in another 
case before the Dhanbad Tribunal. Two of the workmen concerned Vokil Chamar 
and Alku Rajbhar also came in evidence and corroborated the statement about 
their membership anterior to the date of retrenchment. There is no controverting 
evidence against this . The fact that the concerned workmen were not members 
of the Union and the Union has no competency was not challenged during the 
conciliation proceeding, as wou d appear from the report of the Conciliation Officer. 
That being so , it must be held that all the concerned workmen were members 
of the Union at the relevant time and the Union , Khan Mazdoor Congress , was 
competent to sponsor the dispute . The dispute was an industrial dispute and the 
Tribunal has jurisdiction . 


7. Issue No. 2 . - The point that Pits No. 2 and 4 were separate establishments , 
being separate mines , was not seriously pressed on behalf of the management 
The conciliaticn report shows that they were treated as one establishment. No 
attempt has bern mrarle before ma io establish that they were separata mines and 
were treated as separate estab ishments . That being so , both the pats shall be 
treated as one establishment for the purposes of retrenchment. 


8 . Issue No . 3 .- In respect of the concerned workmen , it appears from the 
conciliation report that the management produced the seniority list of Pit Nos. 4 
and 2 before the Conciliation Officer On examining the same, he found that the 
concerned workmen were the junior most in the category of miners . They have 
also filed a list of all miners both for Pit No. 4 and 2 which have been proved 
by an affidavit of Sri B . Mukerjee on behalf of the management. These lists 
have been prepared from Form B -2 registers which have a so been produced and 
exhibited and exhibited as Ex . E / 32 to E . / 35 The accuracy of the lists has not 
been controverted on behalf of the Union in spite of opportunity allowed to do 
the same From the registers and lists filed it would appear that the concerned 
workmen were junior , most. That being so , it is held that due compliance of 
Sec . 25- G of the I. D . Act was rendered by the employers. The lists together 
with registers would further indicate that the concerned workmen had not rendered 
continuous service for not less than one year at the time of retrenchment which 
was 28th December, 1963. The service records of these workmen are also on 
record and are exhibits E 36 to E 48 . Non cf the concerned workinen had 
put in one year s service . It does appear that some of them were old employees 


3420 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASYINA 1, 1889 [Piki 11 – 
- - = S = = = = 

= = = - 

- 
but there had been break in their service and were re - appointed. This is evident 
by Exts . E / 17 , E / 18 , E / 19 and E / 20 which show that Shiv Dut Chamar , Ram Nath 
Kumhar , Vokil Chamar and Panchani Kocri had absented for long periods and 
on their application they were reappoint: from 7th January , 1983 , 4th February . 
1963, 17th April, 1963 and 19th March , 196 ? respectively . As a matter of fact , 
Vokil Chamar admitted that although he joined the colliery in 1962 he want back 
bome or leave He, however , conveniently forgot the date when he was re 
appointed on return from home. Aklu Rajbhar admitted that he was appointed 
on 4th February , 1963. Thus none of the concerned workmen had not put in one 
year servics . On behall of the Union rellonre is placed on the definition of 
contiruous service os contained in Sec . 25 - F ID . Act Under Şub -section 2 ( a ) it 
is contended that service rendered for 190 days fulls the requirement This 
argument is based on an incorrect reading of this section . The section requires 
that if a workman has put in one year service and has worked actually on 190 
days he shall be treated to have rendered continuous service . The contention 
precedent for application of 190 days is that the workmen must have been in 
servira for one year out of which 190 days may be the actual days of work for 
treating the same as continuous service . The first requirement that the employ 
ment should have subsisted for one year is necessary before determining the 
length of continuous service. Since none of the workmen had been in employment, 
for one year , the question of working for 190 days does not arise . That being 
SO , Sec, 25 - F I. D . Act and Rule 76 of Industrial Disputes ( Central) Rules are not 
attracted 

9 . Issue No . 4 . - From the various documents Aled on behalf of the manage 
ment. it appears that they had sudctent justification for developing the rottom 
section of Pit No. 4 with the consequent result of closing down five gallarics . 
Ex . E / 21 a letter dated 5th August, 1963 froin the Inspectiriz Oficer of the Ccal 
Board and another letter from the Chief Inspector of Mines dated 6th July , 1963 
( EX . E / 22) would show that stowing was insisted upon and dept laring was 
restricti The development of the bottom section during the extraction in the 
top section was prohibited and therefore Ave gallaries out of twenty had to be 
stopped in the bottom section , Sri N . C . Dutta ( E . W . 1 ) , Assistant Manager came 
in evidence for employers and stated that depil aring of top section in develop 
ment of the bottom section simultanecusly in Pit No . 4 was not permitted by 
the Minas Deportinent Consequently , development of Ave Pallaries in lattoni 
section was stopped and deplllaring in top section was started Becauss of this , 
retrenchment of certain workers becamo necessary . He further stated that he 
did not know if the correrne, workmren were memhers of Khan Mazdoor Congress . 
The total strength of workers was aliouit 200 to 900 and the concernant workinen 
were the junior most. He also stated that the quarry was not working in 1961, 
when the concerned workmen were retrenched . There is no reason to doubt his 
testimony According to the Union itself , the concerned workman hecanın members 
only in November and the relrenchnert had to be affected in December The 
management could have no means to know of their membership so sroon after 
their having become members of the Union and particularly when no oroininent 
part was heing play - d by these workmen in Union activities. There 1 nothilig 
on recorri to show that there were 70 to 80 ternpcary workmen in empinment 
at the ti ne ol retrenchment. There was, therefore , sufficient justification to 
affert rotrenchment and there was no motive of virtimisation in retrenching the 
concerned yorkmen . Had it heen so , the management would not have offer I 
re - employment when the work was recommenced and there arose justification for 
re-employment. The issue is answered accordingly . 


10 . Issue No. 5 . - Sec . 25 - F and Rue 76 are not attracted and therefore there . 
ju no question of compliance with the provisions of the section and the rule 
The only relevant thing which the management had to do was to comply with 
the provisions of Sec 25 - F namely , observance of thn princinle of last come first 
PO . This they had done as has already been helt under the preceding issue 
It was not neerssary to comply with the routrement of Sen 25 - F or Pile 76 . 
It may he mentioned that there was no plea that Ruile 77 of ID (Cutral ) Rules 
was not observed and therefore it was not incumbent on the management to have 
proved Armatively that the rule was so observed The issue is thus answered 
in affirmntive. 

11. 188ue No . 6 . - On behalf of the management, it was alleged that in accord 
or with certain provisions of the Stortinariery which lave not been Allect 
or produreri , they paid one week s wages to these workmen The point 19 . how 
ever , immaterial, Both parties took up the stand that it was a case of retrench 
ment. The provisions of the Starding Ord - r ns was verholly contended related 
to Fischarge and not for retrenchment. Consecuently , the provision of Standing 
Orders relating to discharge is not at all attracted . 


Sec. 8(i )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1899 3421 


12 . Isaud No. 7 . - It does appear that some of the concerned workmed accepted 
payment as would appear from Exts E / ? to E / 16 . Had the retrenchment been 
illegal the payment zecelved by them would not have estopped them from con 
tending that they were wrongly retrenched as rule of estoppel has no application 
in industrial adjudicotions. The fact of payment as a compromise settlement 
subsequent to the reference becomes immaterial for consideration in view of my 
earlier Andings that the retrenchinent was justified and was in uccordance with 
the provisions of Şec . 25 -G oľ I. D . Act . It is , therefore , unnecessary to consider 
the implication of the fact that some of the workmen have compromised and settled 
the dispute by accepting tull and final payment or were given re- employment 
for vrhich sone evidence was also tondered by both sides . It may be mentioned 
that an enquiry about faithiul compliance of Sec. 25- G I. D . Act regarding re 
employment which undoubtedly was cffered on reopening of work is beyond the 
scope of this reference and therefore is not being considered . It is sufficient to 
state that the terningtion of employment by retrenchment of the concerned work 
men was justifled . 

Decision . The result is that the issue under reference is answered in afir 
mative. It is held that the termination of services by way of retrenchnent of 
the 13 concerred workmen was justified and none of them are entitled to any 
relie !. No order for costs . 

( Sa .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer . 

10 - 8 - 1867. 
[No. 2 / 28 / 64 -LRIL ] 


New Delhi, the 141h September 1967 
S . O . 3347. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industiral Tribunal, Calcutta , in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Bankolla Colliery . Post Omcce Ukhra , District Burdwan and 
their workmen , which was received by the Central Government on the 12th Şept 
emhor , 1967 
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , CALCUTTA 

REFERENCE No. 150 OF 1966 
PARTIES : 
Enployers in relation to the Bankolla Colliery , 

AND 
Thcir workmen . 
PRESENT: 

Shri S . K . Sen - Presiding officer. 
APPEARANCES : 

On behalf of Employers - Shri D . Narsingh , Advocate, 
On behalf of workmen - Shri Benarsi Singh Azad , General Secretary , Khan 

Shramik Congress . 


STATE : West Bengal, 

INDUSTRY : Coal Mines . 

AWARD 
By Order No . 6 / 102 /66 -LR- II dated 3rd December 1966, the Central Govern 
ment rcferred for adjudication an industrial dispute between the employers in 
relation to the Bankolla Colliery P . O . Ukhra , Dist. Burdwan and thelr workmen 
in respect of the matter specified in the following schedule : 
" Whether the action of the management of Bankolla Colliery , Post Office 

Ukhra in terminating the services of Shri Dhian Singh , mechanical 
fitter , with ellect from the 30th May, 1966 was justified If not, to 
what relief is the workman entitled ? " 


2 . According to the union , the Khan Shramik Congress , Dhian Singh was 
appointed against a permanent vacancy under Bankolla colliery on 26th Novem 
ber, 1965 as a mechanical Atter and worked without any blemish : but as he 


3422 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


became a member of the Khan Shramik Congress and took an active part in trade 
union work , the management was displeased with him and by a letter dated 29th 
April, 1966 gave one month s notice of termination of service , the termination to 
become effective from 30th May 1! 66 , Dhian Singh protested by a letter dated 7th 
May, 1966 , but in reply he was informed by the management by a letter dated 
17th May, 1966 that his services were terminated because his work was not found 
satisfactory . According to the union , if the workman s services were terminated 
for unsatisfactory work , he should have been served with a chargeshcet and given 
an opportunity to explain the circumstances, and that termination of service with 
out such enquiry was a violation of the rules of natural justice . The union , 
therefore, claimed that Dhian Singh should be reinstated in his job as mechanical 
Atter and given hack wages, 

3 . According to thọ managemert, Dhjan Singh was not a permanent cmployee 
but had been employed temporarily for one month in the first instance from 25th 
November , 1965 , but he was allowed to continue in his post until by one month s 
notice his services were terminated with effect from 30th May , 1966 . The manage 
ment claimed that they were not aware whether Dhian Singh had herome a mem 
ber of Khan Shramik Congress or any other union and denied that he manage 
ment had terminated his service because of trade union activities. In the protest 
letter dated 7th May , 1986 , Dhian Singh had alleged that one M . K . Chabravorty 
appointed as Dlescl Mechanic was junior to him in service and it was therefore 
wrong on the part of the maagement to retain M . K Chakravorty but terminate 
his services . In the written statement filed by the union , it was merely mention 
ed that the management had retained a junior worker in service while terminat 
ing the service of Dhian Singh , no detail being given The management in their 
written statement said that M . K . Chakravorty was appointed to a supericr post 
as Diesel Mechanic on a monthly basic salary of Rs. 225 plus dearness allowance 
and was not a workman of the same category as Dhian Singh , and therefore the 
question of retaining a junior man could not arise ; further. it was not a case of 
retrenchment but cr termination of service under the Standing Orders of the 
Company . The management, therefore , claimed that the order of termination of 
service of Dhian Singh should be held to be justified . 

4 . No letter of appointment of Dhian Singh has been produced by the munage 
ment but the management has produced the weekly pay sheets , Ext. C & D , for the 
weeks ending 4th December, 1965 and 11th December , 1965 wherein Dhian Singh s 
name is entered ; the lists are described as " Wages sheet Temporary Section " . 
Shri Benarasi Singh Azad appearing on behalf of the union has challenged the 
fact that the pay - sheets or wages - sheets relate to temporary men only , and has 
referred to the evidence of MW 1 - S . N . Das Gupta , Senior Engineer, Bankolla 
Colliery, that in his department there are only 6 or 7 temporary men whereas the 
pay - sheels , Ext. C & D , show numerous names . Shri Das Gupta has explained 
this by saying that the paysheets relate not only to the engineering department 
but to all departments . The question however whether Dhian Singh was appoint 
ed temporarily or on a permanent basis is immaterial. Under paragraph 14 of 
the Standing Orders of the company, the company may terminate the servires of 
a permanent workmen who has put in less than one year s continuous Service 
by serving one month s notice for a monthly paid worker and one week s notice 
for a weel ly paid worker , Clause ( ! ) of paragraph 14 provides that no notice at 
all is rrylirer for ternination of servire of a temporary or a badli wurkmen 
Since Dhjan Singh was given one mont s rotire for termination of service. he 
was apparently treated as a permanent workman by the management, but he had 
put in less than one year s continuous service. On his own case, he was avoint 
ed with effect from 26th Novembar 1995 and according to + 170 manarament from 
25th November 1965 . The ni tire of discharge was river on th 2.mrl , 1106 l. e . 
after 5 months of service . Thus, rccording in the Sinding Orders, the artire of 
termination was validly given even if Dhian Singh had been anpointed on ä por 
mareuit basis . 


5 . In the notice Ext. 1 of te rinjnation of service , it is not liientionid that work 
of Dhian Singh had been found unsatisfactory . That statement was made only 
in the letter , Fxi, 2 , datert 17th May 1968 in roply to Dhian Sipil s letter of pro 
test. Ext. A , dated 7th May, 1956 . Shri Benrari Sinh 737 ! 1reed that iſ 
his work was found unsatisfactory , he should have been chargesheeted and given 
an opportunity to explain . But where the Standing Ordnts of a company pro 
vide for the termination of service of a permanent workman who has not com 
pleted 12 months continuous service , the management is entitled to terminate 
the services of such a workman by notice without drawing up any characsheet 
or holding any enquiry. In 1967 I LLJ 718 , Benjamin V . Union of India , the 
Supreme Court held that where the Government as employer have the right under 


SEC , 3 ( ii )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 3423 


the contract of employment or under the rules, to terminate the services of an 
employee , the motive for termination of service is irrelevant, and even in a case 
where a departmental enquiry had been initiated , it is open to the Government 
to drc ) the proceedings and make an order of discharge simpliciter . Thus , eren 
it Dhian Singh had committed any misconduct, as the Standing Orders of the 
Employers enabled them to terminate the services of the workman , they would be 
entitled to do so without holding any enquiry in respect of the misconduct. More 
over , as Chri D Narsingh has pointed cut, unsatisfactory work is not equivalent 
to misconduct The termination of service was made because Daian Singh s work 
as meclianical Itter was not found u ) to the mark , and it was made within the 
time limited ?, paragraph 14 of the St ? iding Orders. It was therefore a valid 
termination of service. 

6 . In view of the above finding , the question of Dhian Singh s service being 
terinirated in preference to M . K . Chakravorty s service is immetarial. The 
management however has proved the letter of appointment of Shri M . K . Chakra 
vorty , Ext. E , showing that the letter of appointment was issued to him on 12th 
November, 1965 i. e . before the date of appointment of Dhian Singh and further 
that M K . Chakravorty was appointed as a Diesel Mechanic on the monthly basic 
pay of Rs. 225 plus allowances. That post was clearly superior post to that of a 
mechanical fitter which was the post to which Dhian Singh was appointed and in 
which he was drawing a weekly pay of Rs. 34 . 70 paise . Dhian Singh claimed that 
he had also worked in the beginning as a Diesel mechanic ; but the manage 
ment denied this and said that from the very first week of his appointment his 
designation appeared as mechanical fitter in the paysheet, Ext . C & D as alco in 
the attendance register , Ext. B . Accordingly , the claim made by Dhian Singh 
before the tribunal that he worked at first as a Diesel Mechanic cannot be accept 
ed . It must be held that he worked all along as a mechanical fitter and his post 
which was a weekly paid post was inferior to that of a Disel Mechanic which was 
a monthly paid post. 

7 . As regards the union s case that the Management was displeased with 
Dhian Singh as he took an active part in the work of the union , Khan Shramik 
Com ess , no document has been produced to show that Dhian Singh took ary 

ar 77 311 in the union work . He was a new man , not likely at once to jump into 
a position of leadership . His oral evidence that the Manager once threatered him 
for refusing to give up his connection with the union is not worthy of credit, the 
workman was directly under the Senior Engineer , Shri Das Gupta who stated that 
he was not aware whether Dhian Singh had joined any union at all. Hence this 
part nf the union s case also fails . 

8 My award , therefore , is that the management of Bankolla Colliery was jus 
tified in terminating the services of Dhian Singh , Mechanical fitter and the work 
man therefore is not entitled to any relief. 
Calcutta ; 
The 1st September ,1967. 

(Sd.) S . K . SEN , 

Presiding Officer . 

[No 6 / 102 / 66 - IR II . ] 
S . O . 3348. - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 
( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur, in the industrial dispute between the employers 
in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office 
Jealgora , District Dhanbad and their workmen employed in 6 and 7 Pits Jamadoba 
Collierv and Jamadoba Power House which was received by the Central Govern 
ment on the 12th September , 1967. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVT. INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL -CUM -LABOUR 

COURT, JABALPUR 
CAMP AT TELAIYA 

Dated , August 19 , 1967 
PRESENT : 

Sri G . C . Agarwala -- Presiding Officer. 
REFERENCE No. 49 / 64 (DHANBAD TRIBUNAL ) 

REFERENCE No. CGIT /LC ( R ) ( 17) / 67 ( JABALPUR TRIBUNAL ) 
In the matter of an industrial disnute in relation to the Tata Iron and Steel 
Company Limited , Jamadoba , Post Office Jealgora , District Dhanbad and their 


3424 TUIF GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 [PART II– 

HSS 
workmen , employed in 6 & 7 Pits Jamadoba Colliery & Jamadoba Power House . 
APPEARANCES : 
For the employers. Sri S . N . Singh , Asstt. Chlef Personnel Omcer of the 

Company. 
For the workmen . Sri P . Chanda , President, Tata Collleries Workers 

Union , P . O . Jealgora , District Dhanbad . 
INDUSTRY : Coal Mine. 

DISTRICT ; Dhanbad ( Bihar). 

AWARD 
The following three issues as stated in the order of reterence were referred 
to Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad by Notification No . 
2 / 10 / 84 -LRII dated 5th May, 1964. The proceedings remained pending before the 
sald Tribunal from 11th May , 1964 till transferred to this Tribunal by Notifica 
tion No. 8 / 25 / 67-LRII dated 25th April, 1987 ; 

Issues 
( 1) Whether the dismissal of Sarvashri Rameswar Ram , H . E . Khalasi. . 

Ramdhani Rajaor, Light Tyndal, Kali Rajwar , Fitter helper of Jama 
doba Power House of M / s . Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , 
P . O . Jealgora , District Dhanbad , with effect from 27th November, 

1963 was justified ? If not, to what relief are the workmen entitled ? 
( ii) Whether the suspension of Shri Ramdas Rajaor, Hookman of Jamadoba 

Power House of Messrs Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , with 
effect from the 23rd November , 1963 as justified ? If not , to what 

relief is the workman entitled ? 
( 111 ) Whether the suspension of Sarvashri Sumintar Singh , underground 

trammer and Kallu Turi, miner of 6 & 7 pits Jumadoba Colliery of 
Mossrs Tata Iron and Steel Company Limited , P . O . Jealgora , with 
effect from the 16th August, 1963 was justified ? If not , to what relief 

are the workmen entitled ? 
The parties Aled their written statements before the Dhanbad Tribunal. 
Parties were required to ale rejoinder on notices issued by this Tribunal but they 
did not do 80 with the result that the hearing commenced and evidence was 
recorder on 17th August, 1967 , after which arguments were heard . 

3 . Before the commencement of the hearing on behalf of the Union , Tata Col 
lieries Workers Union , it was intimated that issues 2 & 3 would not be pressed and 
were given up . The controversy , therefore , remain with regard to the three 
workmen S / Sri Rameshwar Ram , Ramdhani Rajaor & Kali Rajwar, who were 
dismissed by an order of the management dated 27th November , 1963 . It may 
be mentioned that at the time of dismissal there was an industrial dispute pending 
betore the Dhanbad Tribunal No. 42 of 1963 and therefore the management 
applier} for approval of the action of punishment under sec . 33 ( 2 ) (b ) ID . Act . 
The three concerned workmen also filed separate applications before the same 
Tribunal under Sec. 33 - A I. D . Act for hrçach of Sec , 33 ( 2 ) ( b ) . These applications 
remained pendings before the Dhanbad Tribunal and were disposed of by an order 
dated 25th January, 1965, a certifed copy of which has been Aled on behalf of the 
workmen and is Ex , W . 13 . The sala Tribunal dismissed the applications both of 
the management for Approval and of the workmen under Sec - 33 - A on the ground 
that this main reference has already been referred for adjudication concerning the 
same dispute and therefore the entire question would be at large in the present 
reference . This question , therefore , that whether the management failed to take 
approval during the pendency of another industrial dispute has become redundant. 


4 . The facts are within l narrow compagg . Near the Pits No. 6 & 7 some 
workers of the collſeries had set up temporary huts for their residence some 
years ago . According to the management, they were only 30 — 35 whereas accord 
in to the workmen the number of such huts were many more , about 150 , and 
that some of the huts were of contract labourers also . This the workers had to do 
as they could not be provided with the residential quarters by the management. 
Yt appears that Jharla Mines Board of Health , a statutory body , raised an objec 
tion to the existence of these huts and the overcrowding resulting therefrom by 
means of a letter dated 23rd December , 1962 and the management was required 
to get the unauthorisert structures removed before 10th November , 1963. The 
management Issued notices to their labourers to demolish and vacate the site and 
in their failure to do so they charge - sheeted some 30 workers. After a domestic 
enquiry , they were punished with suspension for 10 days . This Union took up 


SEC, 3(11)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3425 


the cause of the workers and concluation proceedings ensued The report of the 
Conciliation Officer ( Ex , E / 2 ) dated August, 1963 would show that the manage 
ment agreed to reinstate and pay wages for the suspension period for such of 
them who removed the huts or agreed to do so within the specited time. For 
these concerned workmen an undertaking was given that thwy would remove the 
huts within two months and the management, therefore, agrtert to pay them 
the wages of the suspension period in respect on the punishnicnt for violation to 
comply with the order . Since thcse concerned workmen inspite of the opportunity 
given to remove the huts within the period of two months as a insult cť un under 
taking given in conciliation processings did not remove their hus the nianagement 
again charge - shceted the workinen by means of charge - shects dated 10th October , 
1963 ( vide Charge- sheets Ex E / 3 . E / 4 E / 5 ). These wolkmn in reply to the 
charge sheets intimated that the construction were not unauthoris d and they had 
not disobljel any lawful or reasonable one of the company under Cl. 19 ( 1 ) por 
have committed any viulat ion of the rule , ni Jharla Mines Board of Health so as 
to be covered by CI 19 ( 19 ) o thr Standing Orders Since the uther three work 
men coverert ly leslle Nos. 2 & 3 which are redundant now Tere also similarly 
charge - sheste a separat - enquiry was hill by Sri SN Sul , Assistant Chief 
Personnel Officer on 23rd Octoher , 1963 for each In the enquiry the management 
examined tho Welt ire Officer , Shri S Kar, and thr thiee concerned workmen 
examined themselves The Enquiry Offic s recorded a Andin , on 23r12 October , 
1963 holding them guilty of the charges and on receipt of the findings the monage 
ment issued orders of dismissal on 20th Novcriber , 1963 ( Ex E / O E / 9 & F / 10 ) 

5 . The case of the Union on behalf of the workmen is that the structures were 
not unauthorised but had been set up with the permission of Sri Sengupta , the 
then Engineer of the Power House some six to ten years ago They were , there 
fore , not bound to iemove the structures . There were many hutinents and out 
of them those whout 37 in nu nber who were members of this Union wore picked 
up for punishment. Others belonging to the INTUC Union which is a favourite 
Union oť the management were not touched nor were labourers of the contractor 
were required to remove the huts The extreme action of the punishment of 
clismissal was malafide and was artuated by motive of victimization It was con : 
tended that violation to remove the huts was not a contravention of any of the 
clauses 19 ( 1 ) OM 19 ( 19 ) of the Standing Orders The enquiry was assailed on the 
ground that it was perfunctory and lacking in bonafides, and the proceerlings in 
the enquiry did not confirm to the principles of natural justice . The management 
denied all tlie allegations and amrmed that they had been quite Indulgent and 
Save repeated opportunities to the workmen to remove their huts When Jharia 
Mines Boarl of Tealth rmatened the inanagement to prosecute them for the 
violation of the rules , they had to resort to this extreme action It was contended 
that the erinuiry was honafide and in gont faith there having been no motive to 
virtimise the workmen All those who had their huts were gimilarly served with 
notices and as these workmen remained adamant ard dirt not rennoun the huts 
while others did so , there was no optinn loft hut to proceert against then and to 
dismlas them 

6 Taking up the first question whether the charge sheet for which the work 
men have been piinished is covered or not by the Standing Orders , the relevant 
clauses 19 ( 1 ) & 19 ( 19 ) are as follows ( Ex E 25 ) : 
Cl, 19 ( 1 ) : Wilful insubordination or disobedienre , whether alone or in com 

bination with anothny or nthers , of any lawful oricaronable order 

of a surerior 
7. 19 ( 19 ) : Any breach of the Indian Mines Art, or or any other Act, or of 

any rules or bye laws thereunder , or of standing orders. 
17 On behalf of the Union , it is contended that the workmen were bound only 
to comply with an order which was reagonable and lawful and since they had set 
up the huts with the premission of the then Engineer Sri Seneupta , the order to 
remove the huts was not reasonable or lawful On this question , it becomes mato 
riat to examine whether they had really taken any such permission as contended 
on their hehalf Sri Sengunt , is no more in the enrvice of the management and 
left the service of the company some years ago There is no writing of Sri Sen 
gupta clving permission to set up huts and the only evidence in this connection 19 
the oral statement of one of the workmen Sri Rameswar Ram (ww1) He ad . 
mitted that Sri Songunta waq only Asstt Superintendent in the Power House and 
WAR his immediate hoge Obviously he was not a dennrtmental head Hardly 
any reliance can be placed on such a bald statement of the workman that the huts 
had been set up with the permission of Sri Senguota Il was for the workmen 
to have proved by convincing evidence that they had taken such a permission . In 


3426 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASYINA I, 1889 [PART II 

- - = 

= - = 
the charge - sheets (Ex . E / 3 , E / 4 & E / 5 ) none of these workmen put up the pleu 
that they had taken permission from Sl Sengupta , Only at the cnquiry . stage , 
they raised this plea . Even if Sri Sengupta be assumed to have given any per 
mission cxpressed o implied , he was no , a competent person to do so , and bind 
down the management for the unaulnurised occupation of their land . It may be 
that these workmen llke others had set up unauthorised structures within the 
knowledge of the management and the management took no action , requii ng them 
to vacate the same. Their mere silence, however , will not operate as an estoppel 
or acquiescence. They allowed theni to remain in possession so long they were 
not threatened with prosecution and when done so , they had no option but to re 
quire the workmen to remove the unauthorised structures . Jharlı Mines Board 
of Health is a statutory body which has framed bye -laws and general orders under 
the Bihar & Orissa Mining Settlement Act , 1920 . Clausę 20A 17 relevant and runs 
as follows – 
20A The owner , agent or manager or mine shall be held liable iſ cn lands 

with surface rights belonging to the owner , labourers are found ilv 
ing in unlicensed houses built either by the labourers or by the 

owner, agent or manager . 
With the above penal liability imposed on the management, they had no option 
but to resort to coercive nie jou ! 9 ) as to require their workmen to remove the 
unauthorised structures. The order, therefore , was obviously a reasona 51 - and 
lawful one covered by Standing Orders 19 ( 1 ) . It was also a breach of rules and 
Regulation framed under a statutory Act SO AS to be covered by the Standing 
Orders Cl. 19 ( 19 ) . 

8 . It was urged on behalf of the Union that instead of imposing penalty of dis 
missal, it was open to management to have proceeded against these workinen for 
criminal trespass under Penal Core or hy civil action . Such a course ro doubt 
was opened to management but when the persons concerned were own employees , 
It was reasonable and lawful on their part to require them to vacate their land . 
For an outsider who was not their employee there could be no other course open 
but to proceed either under criminal law or by civil action It was a violation of 
a statutory rule with which they had been threatened by a letter of Jharia Mines 
Board of Health dated 28th November , 1963 ( Ex . E / 1 ). There is , therefore , no 
merit in the contention that the criance was not a misconduct under Sub - clauses 
( 1 ) and (19) of Ci, 19 of the Standing Orders. 


9 . The next question to be considered is whether there was a honafide and pro 
per enquiry conforming to rules of natural justice Except for stating in general 
terms in the written statement of the workmen that the enquiry was perfunctory 
and did not conform to principles of natural justice nothing was indicated how 
it was so . Even Sri Rameswar Rom ( W . W . 1 ) in his statement did not state any 
thing specific about any infirmity in the domestic enquiry . When questioned by 
his representative, he simply stated that he could not say it statements in the 
enquiry were correctly recorded . The insinuation was that the statements were 
not read over and explained to him in Hindl. This is far from correct The 
record ot enquiry proceedings ( Ex . E 7 ) would show that all the three concerned 
workmen signed the proceedings and there is an endorsement of thr Enguiry 
Officer " recorded and explained in Hindi" . One of them Ramdhani Rajaor ex 
pressed a desire that his statement should be explained to him in Hindi by one 
Sri B . B . Dutta who was present and this request was acceeded to by the Enguiry 
Omcer as is evident by an endorsement recorded to this effect. The record of 
enquiry shows that the enquirine offrer first examined the management witness 
Sri S . Kar and put questions to him Ile then examined each of the charge 
sheeted workmen and put question in order to clarify dubiour peints The 
questions and answers do not disclose anything to show that they pere put with 
+ ylew to shatter them and bring out facts to support the case of the management 
by a close cross - examination . The finding is based on the evtrienn and ad 
mitted position that the structures existen on the land of the company and had 
not been removed . There is nothing to indicate lark of honafides or serversity 
in the Anding . 

10 . On the plea of victimisation there is no ground to suppose that the manage 
ment was artuated by any bad taith . The Arst conciliation report dated August 
1963 shows that the management was extremely indulgent to all those who had 
been charge - sheeted and vacated the order of punishment of suspension for 10 
dava annt nald wages who removed or promised to remove the huts . Even to 
these workmen , on the understanding glyen on their behalf, the management 
agreed to pay them wages for the suspension period provided they removed the 
structures within two months. This would appear from page 5 para 11 of the 


Sec . 5(ii)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3427 
- - - = = 

- - - - - — 
report . Again irom para 17 page 6 it would appear that for all the three con 
cerned workinen S / Suri Kali Kwar, Raindhani Rajaor and Rameswar Ram , the 
management bieeu vu pay wages olne suspension period , in the next wage 
pellou on lule spectC condition inau sitney Tailed v demoushi the huts within 
two months, liey would render themselves liable for disciplinary action , Para 
18 of the report at page 7 shows that ine Union representative was satisfied with 
the oiter ol the management. Tndl unuitaking may not sirictly spcaning be a 
Settlenen berore a Conciliation Oilicer as defined in Sec , 2 ( p ) of the industrial 
Disputes Act . At any rate , 11 W .is undellaang which should have been 
honoured by the workinen , They have to thank themselves it they have chosen 
to resile irom the undertaking. The contention that these workmun and all 
others about thirty workers who were members of this Union were picked up 
for action and not such of the workers who had also set up unauthorised struc 
tures and belong to the INTUC Union is also of no merit. From the evidence 
of Sri Lal Behari Mahato , management witness ( E . W . 1) there were 30 to 35 huts 
which were unauthorised and all were served with notices to demolish the same. 
All oliers except the threc concerned workmen have demolished the huts . The 
statement of Sri Rameswar Ram ( W . W . 1 ) that there were about 150 hutments 
and that no action was taken against others except 30 who were members of 
this Tala Collier es Workers Union is not indicated by any other evidence except 
by his own statement. In support of discriminations, two instances were f] lus 
trated . One was of Dashrath who is said to have been a member of Tata Col 
lieries Workers Union and was similarly charge - sheeted and dismissed . It 18 
said that as soon as he hecame member of INTUC Union he was re - employed . 
Il support of this , management s letter Ex . W / 8 dated 16th August 1963 was 
filed to show that the dismissal order dated 5th August 1963 was cancelled . The 
conciliation report ( Ex. E / 2 ) shows thal while conciliation proceedings were 
going on , Dashrath was a member of this Tata Collleries Workers Union in 
August , 1963. It follows, therefore that he was reinstated while he was member 
of this Union and his case was being championed in conciliation . There is , 
therefore , no substance in this contention . Another case is illustrated by the 
example of one Chulai Mundal who was suspended by an order dated 26th Decem 
ber 1962 and hy a subsequent order dated 2nd January 1963. this was withbeld 
for four weeks ( Ex . W / 9 & W / 10 ). These papers do not indicate anything 
There is no question of victimisation or malafide when the workmen concerned 
admittedly did not remoun the unauthorised structure when called upon to do 
so , in spite of the indulgence shown by the management by giving them further 
two months time and the conciliatory attitude shown by then in vacating the 
punishment of suspension and paying wages to the workmen . They have to 
thank themselves for the vil consequences visited as a result of their defiance. 
Decision : 


1 . The result is that these workmen S / Shri Rameswar Ram , Ramdhani Rajaor 
& Kall Rajwar are not entitled to any relief , their dismissal having been justified . 
The issue is answered accordingly . 

2 . For issues No. 2 & 3 , they having not been pressed by the Union , are ans 
wered against the workmen and it is held that the suspension of the concerned 
workmen was justified . 
3 . No order for costg. 

( Sd .) G . C . AGARWALA , 

Presiding Officer 
Central Industrial Tribunal- rum - Labour 

Court, Jabalpur, 

19 - 8 -07. 
[ No. 2 / 10 / 84 - LRTI , 7 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3349 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists hetween the employers in relation to the Kenduadih Collierv NO. 
1 / 12 and 7 / 12 Inrlines of Messrs East Indian Coal Company Limited . Post O Moe 
Kusunda . District Dhanhnd of which Morsrs GS Atwal and Company ( Asank01) 
are the Raising and Selling Agents , and their workmen in respect of the matters 
specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


3428 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 


[Part II 


And , whereas the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred - by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of Kenduadih Colllery No . 1 / 12 and 

2 / 12 Inclines of M / s. East Indian Coal Co. Ltd ., Post Office Kuşunda, Dis 
trict Dhanbad of which Messrs G , S , Atwal and Company ( Asansol) are the 
Raising and Selling Agents, in refusing employment to Shri Tahir Khan , 
Night Guard / Chaprasi, with effect from the 5th November, 1986 was justi 
ficd ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[ No . 2 /96 /67-LRII. I 
New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S . O , 8300. — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Lodna Colliery , Post Office 
Jharia , District Dhanbad ( Bihar ) of Messrs Lodna Colliery Company ( 1920 ) 
Limited and their workmen in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule 
hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , tberefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ] ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 , of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the 
said Act. 

SCIINDULE 
Whether the management of Lodna Colliery , Post Office Jharia , Dixtrict 

Dhanbad ( Bihar ) were justified in dismissing Shri Rambadan Singh , 
Night Guard , from service with effect from 24th November , 1986 ? If 
not, to what reller is the workman entitled ? 

(No . 2 / 68 / 67 -LRII. ] 


s . O , 3361, - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Khas Nirsha Colliery of 
Mosso Mohatta Bros., Post Office Nirsachatti, District Dhanbart and their work 
men in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the 
Additional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad , constituted under section 7A of the said 
Act. 

SCHUDULL 
Whether the management of Khas Nirsha Colliery of Mesars Mohatta 

Bros ., Post Office Nirgachatti District Dhanbad were justified in termi 
nating the services of Shri Nirod Baran Roy with effect from the 
13th March , 1967 ? If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No. 2/ 77 / 07 - LRII .) 


New Delhi, the 18th September 1967 
S . O , 3352 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial dis 
pute existry between the employers in relation to the Kathara Colliery of National 
Coal Development Corporation Limited , Kathara , Post Office Kathara , District 
Hazaribagh and their workmen in respect of the matters specifled in the Schedule 
thereto annexed ; 


SEC , 8(t )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASYINA 1, 1889 3429 


And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the 
Central Government heroby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Addi 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad, constituted under section 7A of the said Act . 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the management of Kathara Colliery of National Coal Develop 

ment Corporation Limited , Post Office Kathara , is justifed in terminat 

ing the services of Shri Sadhu Saran Prasad, Dumper Operator, 
Grade - I, of Kathara Colliery with effect from the 19th October , 1902 ? 
If not, to what relief is the workman entitled ? 

[No . 2 /145 /86 -LRII.] 
S . O . 8353 . - - Whereus the employers in relation to S . C . Rungta Colliery , Post 
Office Rungta Colliery , District Sahdol (Madhya Pradesh ) and their workmen 
represented by the Rungta Colliery Mazdoor Sangh , Post Office Rungta Colliery , 
District Shadol (Madhya Pradesh ) have jointly apnlied to the Central Govern 
ment under sub - section ( 2 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947) for reference to a Tribunal of an industrial dispute that exists between 
them in respect of the matter set forth in the said application and mentioned in 
the Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government is satisfied that the persons applying 
represent the majority of each party ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 2 ) of 
section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (14 of 1947) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, 
Jabalpur, constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
In view of the provisions contained in the Payment of Bonus Act 1965 (21 

of 1965 ) , whether the workers of Messrs Rungta Colliery , Burhar 
(Madhya Pradesh ) are entitled for bonus for the years 1964 and 1905 . 

INo. 8 / 31/07 - LRII.) 
BALWANT SINGH , Under Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S .O . 3864 . — Whereas the Central Government being satisfied that the public 
interest so required had declared by a notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub - clause (vl) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , [being the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment) NO, S . O . 959, dated the 15th March , 1987 ), the 
copper mining industry , to be a public utility service for the purposes of the said 
ct for a period of six months from the 25th March , 1967: 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause ( vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six months 
from the 25th September , 1967 . 

[No. F 1 / 83/ 07 -LR - I ) 


S . O . 3385 .- - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 
( 14 of 1947) the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of 
Wie Kerola State Arbitration Board , Trivandrum in the dispute between the 
eniplovers in relation to the Travancore Titanium Products Limited and thels 
workmen represented by the Titanium Products Labour Union , Titanium Workers 
Union and Travancore Titanium Products Employees Union which was received 
by the Central Government on the 29th August, 1967. 


3430 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


(PART ]I 


IN THE ARBITRATION BOARD 

PRESENT : 

Chairman 
1 Shri C . M . Mathew . 

Members 
2 . Snr . A . Karunakaran . 
3 . Shri K . Janardanan Pillai 

Mr. J . B . Soutar. 
5 . Sri P . Balachandra Menon . 
6 . Sri Prakulam Bhasi, 
7 . Sri C . M . Stephen . 

IN THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTE 

BETWEEN 
The Management of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd ., Trivandrum - 7 . 

AND 

Their Workmen . 
Representatives : - - 

1 . The Managing Director, The Travoncore Titanium 

Ploducts Limit , Trivandru ! ) - 7 . 
2 . Sri K . V . R . Shenoy, c / o M / s. Menon and Pai, ( For Management 

Advocates , Ernakulam . 
3 . Shri A Venkatachalam . General Secretary, 

Titaniurn Products Labour Union , Trivandrum . 
4 Sri S . Varadarajan Nair , President, Titanium 

Products Labour Union , Trivandrum . 
5 . Sri K . V . Surendranath , President, Titanium 
Workers Union , Trivandrum 

į For Workmen 
6 . Sri K . Pankajakslian , General Secretary , Travan 

core Titanium Products Einployees Union , 

Trivandrum 
7 . Sri K . Vlayudhan Nair , Vice - President, Travan 
core Titaniun Products Labour Union , Trivandrulli. J 

AWARD 
This Industrial Dispute between the Management of the Travancore Titanium 
Products Limited and their workmen relates to the claims for promction of 31 
employees whose names are given below as stated in the order of reference . 


C 


List of Persons 
1 . A . Venkitachalam - W /No. 531. 
2 . K . Appukuttan Nair - W / No . 533 . 
3. K . Bhaskara Pillak- -- W /No. 534. 
4 . K . Velayudhan Nair - W / No. 538. 
5 . K . P . Ramachandran Nair - W /No. 552. 

P . Selvadurai - - W / No . 554 . 

Hariharan — W /No. 581. 
8 . S . Sukumaran Nair - W / No . 126 . 

C . Cheriyan - W / No. 203. 
10 . P . Krishna Pillai- - W / No . 175 . 
11. C . Thomas John - W /No. 105. 
12. K . Sivasankaran - W /No. 128 . 
13. P . Parameswaran Thampi - W / No. 846 . 
14 . G . Velukutty - W / No. 553. 
15 . M . Damodaran Nair - W /No. 557. 
16 . R . Krishna Pillal - W / No. 558 . 
17 . R . Balakrishna Pillai - W /No. 559 . 
18 . David P . Joseph - W / No. 560 . 
19 . T . Sukumaran Nair - Process Supervisor 
20. R . V . George Process Supervisor , 
21. R . Velayudhan Nair - - W / No . 537 . 
22 . K . Arjunan - W /No. 78 . 
23. C . C . VargheseW /No. 208 . 
24. K . Sankaran - W / No. 231 . 


SEO, 3( ti)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3431 


VE 


25 . K . Madhavan - W /No. 198 . 
26 P . Madhavan - - W / No . 35 . 
27 . P . Kumaran Nair - W /No. 60 . 
28 . B . Dass - - W /No. 150. 
29. Kuttan Pillal- W / NO . 114 , 
30 V Sundarsanan - W /No. 221 . 
31. Aliar Kunju -- W /No. 80 . 

The complalnt raised by all the 31 employees relates to the alleged denial 
o promotions to them and selecting juniors for higher posts in preference to 
them 

! 12 1964 the Company effected the following promotions which can be grouped 
into the following 5 heads. 
A . Eight A grade process operators were promoted as charge hand operators 

in the plant; 
B . Ave charge hand Atters were promoted as Assistant Supervisors ; 
C One, A Grade Electrician was promoted as charge hand Electrician ; 
D . For A Grade ſitters were promoted as charge hand Atters ; and 

E . Six general labourers were promoted as B . Grade fitters. 
The above 31 workmen represented by the 3 unions viz . ( 1 ) Titanium Products , 
Labour Union ( 2 ) Titanium Workers Union and ( 3 ) Travancore Titaniumn Pro 
ducts Employees Union , attacked these promotions on various grounds. By 
memorandum of settlement dated 5th November, 1964 marked as Ext . W19 in 
the case , the parties agreed , that those specific cases of denial of promotions 
effected after 1st November , 1963 already raised by the unions to the management 
will be reviewed by the Regional Labour Commissioner ( C ) Marras , and his 
findings thereon after hearing both the parties will be binding on poth the parties , 
that there workman , if any recommended for promotion by the Regional Labour 
Commissioner ( C ) Madras , as a result of the above review will be promoted in 
the next available vacancies in the cadre to which the promotion has been ie 
comrnender! While the matter was thus pending with the Regional Labour Com 
missionsr ( C ) Madras at the instance of the unions it was agreed to withdraw 
the reference and refer it for the decision of the Managing Director of the Company 
by memorandum of settlement dated 22nd October , 1965 , inarkod as Ext. W 20 
in the case . In that settleinent also it was agreed by the unions that persons 
already promoted would not be reverted . While the matter was pending before 
the Managing Director, the unions withdrew from that settlement by their letter 
dated 20th June , 1966 as is seen from Ext. W 2 . ( dies of the proceedings before 
Sri R . Prasad , Adviser II (Kerala State ) . Before the Adviser , it was agreed by 
both sides that the abova question of promotions be referred for arbitration by 
the State Arbitration Buard set up by the State Government. 

In accordance with the ahove agreernent and in pursuance of the provisions 
of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10 - A of the Industrial Disputes Act 1917 ( 14 of 1947) , 
the Central Governinent published the said arbitration agreemen in the Central 
Government Gazette , der ! 911) December , 1906 The specific is ue frir, ind and 
referred for ceterininntinn 11t hy Arbitration Board runs as follows: 
Whether the denial of promotion to the persons as per li: t attacher is 

jul: led ? If roi to what reliei aro they entitled ? 
The list of 31 persons attached to the Notification is the same as yolcu alive. 

Accordingly . the inatter was seiced by this Arbitration Board on 17th Dec , 
1906 . The matter was posted for written statements of the parties to 31st Decem 
ber, 1966 : and they Aled their statements on that date and their rejoinder state 
ments in ith January , 1967. The Unions in their rejoinder statement on 7th 
January, 1467, contend that the management has nut 1 cm lop :,, Incular 
criteria or principle to & c . ord promotion , but hal bari wan ! ?! ? hor orrciples 
and the tria for prom lions on eynry Occivion 2 1 !1 :21 ; Trile some 
persons finn getting promotions; that the claims of senior omr] vers vere over 
looked and that the principles laid down in the star " ng order s Wire violated 
or isngrid in clrcting promotions and consequently t} ironoticia elteiled may 
los ya lori T1 ieşierrart dar + be given pri Livny cert from 
the dates on which their Juniors were given promotions. The management on 
the other hand contends that promotion is recognisel tu be a m m gerial function 
and so long as it is done in ccordance with certain principles or criteria the 
action of the management cannot he questioned that in this case the management 
acted on well established and healthy criteria and with full bona fides, that there 


3432 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I , 1889 


[ PART 11 – 


has been no violation of the Standing Orders ; that the management had no 
intention of avoiding any particular employee , that the allegation that the princi 
ples have been varied in differenl cases of promotion is not correct and is denied ; 
that those promoted are the really deserving employees and consequently 110 
interference is colled for in the promotions effected . The management would also 
add that since the introduction of Standing Orders for Staff and Workmen 1t 
has been recognised that promotion will be at the discretion of the management 
that the management has adopted the principle of seniority - cum - suitability for 
promotion in all cases and that the contention of the Unions that by Custom 
and long practice length of service and seniority were the guiding principles for 
promotion is not correct. 

The only point for determination is the issue referred for arbitration viz : 

Whether the denial of promotion to the 31 persons named in the list ( referred 
to above ) is justifed If not , to what relief are they entitled ? 

The 31 workmen are represented by the following 3 Uniong, viz . 
1 . Titanium Products, Labour Union ; 
2 . Titanium Workers Union ; and 
3 . Travancore Titanlum Products Employces Union . 

For brevity sake the Unions shall hercinglter be referred to in their order stated 
above as Union Nos, 1 , 2 and 3 respectively Union No. 1 appears for persons 
Nog . 1 to 8 , Union No . 2 for persons Nos. 9 to 20, and Union No . 3 , for persons 
Nos . 21 to 31 referred to above , Person No. 6 was originally represented by Union 
No. 1. But that Union appears to have given up his claim and he was finally 
represented by Union No . 3 . 

In the arbitration agreement the parties had agreed that the arbitrators shall 
inake their award within a period of 30 days or within such further time as 
is extended by mutual agreement between them in writting. The parties have 
agreed in writing to extend the said period up to 31st July , 1967. 

In the appendix to the claim statement dated 31st December, 1966 Aled by 
Union No 2 , it is stated that they do not press the cases of persons Nos. 14 and 
18 . At the time of arguments , No . 1 Union gave up the claims of Nos , 2 , 3 5 and 
6 and pressed the claims of Na. 1 - A . Venkitachalam , No. 4 , K . Velayudhan Nair , 
No. 7 V . Nariharan and No . 8 S . Sukumaran Nair . But the claims of No 6 
was pressed by Union No. 3 , Union No. 3 did not press the claims of Nos 20 , 
28 . 29 and 31. Thus of the 31 persons, the claims of 9 persons viz . of Nos. 2 . 3 , 
5 , 14 , 18 , 26 , 28 , 29 and 31 were not presser . So their claims do not arise for 
consideration 

Both sides have chosen to adduce evidence to substantiate their contentions. 
The Unions have examined eleven witnesses WW1 to W11 and proved Exts . W1 
to W51. Of the above, witnesses WW2, WW7, WW8, WW9 and WW11 are the 
aggrieved partles themselves viz . claimarits Nos 9 19 , 23, 22 and 17 respectively 
WW4 WW WWG and WW10 are responsible Officers in the Company , namely , 
the Plant Controller, Plant Manager, Production Manager and the Secretary of 
the Company respectively . WW1 is an A Grada Operator and an Executive 
Member of No 2 Union who was an Observer in the Promotion Committee. 
WW3 is a Process Supervisor. On the side of the management, their Personnel 
cum -Welfare Omcer is examined as MW1 and Exte . Mi and M22 were proved , 
Their case is brought out through their Ollecrs examined on the side of the 
Unions also 

Before dealing with ir lividual case: it would be worthwhile to deal with 
certain pencral legal principles applicable to promotion . Both sides having relled 
upon the Supreme Court ruling in 1966 - 1 LLJ 202 , the relevant portion can be 
quoted with advantage : 

" We are nf opinion that both the contentions raised on behalf of the appellant 

are correct Gnarrally spcak ny, promoliul is management function : 
but i mity be rachinised that there may be cocasions when & Tribunal 
may have to interfere with promotions made by the management where 
It is felt that persons superceded hav .: been so superceded on account 

of Malafides or Victimisation " , 
Another ruling relied upoo by the Unions was the following observations ( 011 
tained in 1961 - 1 LLJ 686 which runs as follows : 

" If an employer deliberately uses his power of promoting employees in a 

manner calculated to sow discord among his workmen or to undermine 


SEC. 9 ( 11, 1 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 3433 


the strength of their Union , he is guilty of unfair labour practice 1 
therefore hold that a Labour Tribunal can enquire whether a number 
of promotions made by the employer amounted to unfair labour practice 

or Victinzisation " . 
5 . Based upon the above principles the main points for investigation would 
be whether there was malafides , victimisation or unfair labour practice in the 
promotions in question In the first place we will examine the provisions regard 
ing promotion in the Standing Orders of the Company The Standing Orders for 
workmen is Ext M13 and the Standing Orders for the Staff is Ext. M14 clause 
20 ( b ) in Ext . M13 and clause 8 (b ) in M14 are the relevant provisions 
Clause ?Mt) in M13 runs as follows : 
" Promotion shall be at the discretion of the management. In order , how 

ever , to afford an opportunity to the deserving workers , a Promotion 
Committee will be constituted consisting of the Head of the Department, 
where the vacancy will occur , and the Secretary of the Company . 
( Provided that in the case of promotions in a Department, for which 
the Sccretary is himself the Head of the Department, the Promotion 
Committer will consist of the Serretary and any other Offlcer nominated 
by the Management ) . A representative of the Works Committee to be 
chosen by the worker s representative in the committee shall attend 
the meeting of the Promotion Committee as an Observer This com 
mittee shall, however , be a irrommendatory body and the ultimate 
derision regarding promotion will rest with the Managing Director who 
will ordinarily give due consideration to the recommendations of the 

committee." 
The provisions in clause 8 ( b ) of Ext. M14 being similar , it is unnecessary 
to quote the same over again . 

That the above were the provisions in force at the time of the impugned 
promotions, is armitted by the Unions It follows therefore that promotion shall 
hon at the discretion of the Management and that the ultimate decision rests with 
the Managing Director . The Promotion Commitice contemplated in the above 
provisions is only to help the Managing Director and it is only a recommendatory 
body . It is also seen that the workmen s representative in the Promotion Com 
mittee is only an Observer . Now we will see whether any of those provisions 
have been violated in this case , in regard to the attacked promotions. The 
relevant evidence consists of the evidence of WW6 the Production Manager and 
WW10 the Serretary of the Company who wer , inembers çf the Promotion Com 
mitten and WW11, the General Secretary or the Union N 2 who was the Observer 
in the relevant Promotion Committee WW1, being the Observer in a subsequent 
Promotion Con zittee , we are not very much concerned with his evidence , in 
this matter . We will exminn the Hvidence iť WW11 He swears that he was 
the Observer in the Promotion Committee which made the recommendations re 
garding the attacked promotions He also states that it was a list of selected 
persons which was placed before the Committee, that he had pointed out the 
defects in the Marks system , that the criteria for promotion had not been pre 
viously published that the qualification for promotion had heer: pretulisly ixed 
and the cadre strength in each category had not been fixed etc He also proves 
Ext. W42 . to W47 Ext W47 is concerning Government Servants only and that 
came into fçrce long after the disputed promotions. The other documents which 
came into existence after the disputed promotions are mainly conrerned with 
the future criteria for proinotinns, which ended probably in Ext W .. dats 17th 
June, 1965 , where by It has beni lcclared that tlie promotions in lower categories 
of employees in ntioned therein will be governel piirely by seniority and the 
recommendations of the Ocer , under whom the rinployees are working provided 
they have got a clean confidential record . That does not in ar y va -- i lidate 
the system adopted for promotions in 1964 Thus the eridence of VV ll does 
not go to establish victimisation , malafelds or unfair lahour practice 

Coming to the evidence of WWA, he swears to his poistence of a Selection 
Committre of which he was the Chairman He ar that the " asis of the 
selections were discussed in the Promotion Committee. The selection was then 
made by the Selection Committre and the sclertions made on them above hasis 
and then it was presented to the Promotion Committee where thr Ohserver was 
also present. The existence of a Selection Committee which helped the Promotion 
Committee cannot be construed as a violation of the provisions in the Standing 
Orders . It appears that the Selection Committee only functioned as a sub 
committee which worked under the directions of the Promotion Committee . 
Moreover, the existence of that Committee was not taken up Specifically as 


3434 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II — 


violation of the provisions of the Standing Orders in the pleading of the Unions. 
Coming to the evidence of WW10 , the following extract from his deposition was 
specifically relled upon by the Management. 

" There are recognised Unions in the Factory, by the Management, one " 

afiliated to the INTUC One of the AITUC and one to the UTUC . 
We have about 600 workers in the factory . As far as I am aware na 
Oficer in the Company and I have no prejudice or ill will against any 
oľ the einployees or workmen oi the Company including the ul rel 1100 
to this Board . In effecting the promotions in this case , the mallo 
ment and the members in the Promotion Committee acted most bona fide 

and in the best interest” . 
" Among the 31st employees , mentioned in this reference , M / s . A . 

Venkidachalam , K . Velayudhan Nair , C . C . Cherian (No. 9 ), R 
Balakrishna Pillai No. 17 and R . Velayudhan Nair (NO. 21) are the 
Union Officials . The lact that these persons were Union Olice -bearers 
bas never infunced vur decisions in the matter of these piomotions. 
We give time- off to office -bearers of Union who attend Conferences 
or discussions either in the Company premises or outside. This time 
off given is not considered as absenteeism on loss of pay . It is consi 

dered as on -duty " , 
No doubt the above portion was brought out in cross by the Management s 
counsel. But it is noteworthy that nothing has been brought out in the re 
examination questioning the above statement of the witness . His evidence as it 
stands, there is no reason to disbelieve his testimony. 

The Unions have not adduced any reliable evidence to show that the Manage 
ment had any prejudice or grudge against any one of the above 31 persons . 
There is also no positive evidence that any one of the 31 persons was denied 
promotion or that the case of any cne was not considered for promotion , because 
of his Trade Union activities. It was also pointer out on behalf of the Manage 
ment that there was no evidence to show that there were any strained relations 
between the Management and the 31 employees in question or from which such 
an inference was possible . 

We will next go into the details of the promotions effected . In the Arst instance 
we will take into consideration the case of eight A grade Process Operators 
promoted as charge Hand Operators in the plant which is cne of the items attacked 
against. It appears that on 1st February , 1964, 25 senior most A grade Operators , 
named in Ext. MIA were considered for promotion by the Promotion Conmittee, 
As charged Hand Operators . In fact there were only 25 A Grade Operators at that 
time. Their names and the marks obtained by them under several heads are 
given In Ext. MIA . The criteria followed are given in Ext. MI, The Promotion 
Committee recommended 8 charge hands for promotion on the basis of marks 
obtained and the criteria provided in Ext. M1. It appears that the second part 
of the criteria on page 2 of M1 regarding absence cn loss of pay of more than 
14 days in either of years of 1962 and 1963 was walved because it was found 
that iſ they applied that criteria only 3 persons were qualified for consideration 
for promotion to the 8 vacancies which meant that they will have to promote 
in experienced B grade Operatcrs or take from outside. That was done for bene 
fitting the maximum number oť A grade Operators. The 8 A gracle Operators 
who i cr selected for promotion under Ext. Mi list for promotion were forwarded 
to the Manazing Director and he confirmed and approved their promotion and 
Hçcordinly they were proinolecl as charge -hand Operators from 16th February , 
1964 . The above said facts are sworn to by MWI, tie Personnel- cum -Welfare Omcer . 
Of cours he has sworn that his knowledge is from the records only and that 
hi was not in the company at that tims IIc joined the company only in Srktember 
1961, in the capacity However the above facts sworn to y MVI FI not 
disputed it. I SS - Oxyminalio 1 by the Trions. The gbove set of promotion is 
atta od hy ryst of the failcil candidates in thesc proceedings. Thicer then 
did not ( or forward to attack the promotions, Another set namel. Nos . 14 . 
18 % , ant înd 2 , among the list of persons attacking those promotions, have 
suis . Tuont , siven up their contentions. Thus the remaining persons, atickin 
in morintains are numbers 15 , 16 , 1, 13 , 17, 4 , 6 , 21 and 7 According to the list 
of persons notiled . O . thes Sri R . Balakrishna Pillai, alone has come forward 
to swear as WWI, NO dou ! !, he is the Srcretary of one of the Unlons and an 
ulrieurd party in this gro l ). There is 7 muesticn mooter by the Unions that 
the criteira Axec in Mi, wa not pror and that was intended to avoid certain 
persons which according to the Unions may amount to victimisation and unfair 
labour practice . Here again we have to revert to the provisions in the Standing 
Oy vers 10 examine the competency of the Management to fix such standards . 
In the first place . There is a thing in Ext M13 , Cl 20 / B ) prohibiting Axation of 
such criteria by the Management Whon it is specifically provided that promotion 


- 


- 


- 


sfc. 3(ii)] THE GAZETIE OF INDIA : SEP I EMBER 23 , 1967 / ASYINA 1, 1889 3435 
= 
shall be at the discretion of the Management and that the ultimate decision re 
garding promotion will rest with the Managing Director , we think that the com 
petency of the Management in fixing the criteria for promotion cannot be ques 
tioned . In other words, it is the function of the Management to lay down the 
" riteria . But at the same time, the criteria will be open to attack to see whether 
the same was intended for avoiding any particular employees or to see whether 
there was any victimisalion , malafides or unlair labour piaulice involved in setting 
up the said criteria . It is seen from the evidence that the said criteria was 
applied LQ one and all alike all the 25 persons were subjected to the same test. 
That goes a long way against the contentions of the Unions. No doubt, they were 
tested under several hrads, 15 seen from Ext. M1 and M1A , It was the eight 
persons who ilored the highest marks, who were selected , subject to the solitary 
instance , namely the case of No. 5 Sri Venkitachalain in Ext. M1( a ) . He is No . 1 
in the list of persons notified anong the claimants in these proceedings . He scored 
a total of 82 marks only and No. 15 , Sri N . S . Pillai who scored only 79 marks 
as per Ext. MIA were promoted So also No . 24 , Sri K . Sankara Moorthi, who 
spored 82 marks, i.e . the same marks as Sri Venkitachalam also was promoted , 
It is this , apparent injustice, which was the target of attack against M1 and M1A . 
Sri Venkitachalam was avoided by the virtue of the first part of the criteria on page 
2 of Mi. That provision enjoins that those of the employees who were on loss 
of pay fer more than 50 days on an average for 1962 and 1963 will be excluded 
for conalderation for promotion . Admittedly , Venkitachalam , is an Union official. 
According to the Union , such a provision was included to exclude the Union 
workers like Venkitachalam and R . Balakrishna Pillai. It may be observed here 
1hat Sri R . Balakrishna Pillai, No . 11 In Ext. Mi( a ) got only 41 marks and he 
was eliininatest on account of the lower marks. All the other employees in this 
group got only lower marks than the promoted candidates. So on the basis of 
Ects , M1 and MIA , they could have no complaint and their grievances appear 
to be unfounded . 

Hcwever , regarding Sri Venkitachalam we wish to make the following 
observations on equitablr grounds. It has come out in evidence that Sri A . Venkita 
chalam has absented himself on some occasions on account of had health also . 
It was casually pointed out that a trinsier to some other section lika clerical 
section may be useful to him . In view of his present health conditions and 

unsidering the fact that he is an active Union official, the Management would do 
Well to give him a transfer to sore other sertion According to his qualification , 
it ame ? Then he polics for the same This suggestirn wc make on account of 
evuitable considerations and because he had scored good marks and failed on 
account of the test of excessivo absent aiini. 

Coming to the question of excessive absenteeism to be put as a criterion , against 
Promotion , a lot of evidence have been put in by both sides . MW1 swcars that , 
the absenteeism on loss of piv is very high in this factory , coming to an average 
of 17 to 18 per cent and that from his cxperience it has been found that absentee 
iam above about 7 per crnt is considered as bad by many managements and 
industrins He also would add that not only such absentees will not be promoted 
Tout they will be discharged froin tlie service of the factory in other companies, 
Ile voulci also further arld that absenteeism of workers wuld further affert the 
quantity and quality of pro-luction in the absentenism of charge hands will also 
allect effectively . He was the Assistant Commissioner for Labour ( Central ) , before 
he joined the company in September 1964. Thus he was speaking from his previous 
experi, nie In this question , the Unions have produced Ext. W12 , to show that 
auch Absenteeism exists in cther factories also . Ext. W12 , is the 16th Report hy 
the Third Lok Sabha Committee on Public Undertakings in March 1960 On page 
17), para 77 , it is observed as follows: 

" A rather disturbing feature which the Committee noticed was on absenteeism 

rate of 18 per cent in the factory . They were informed that authorised 
leavı accounted for 8 per cent and the balance alone could be credited 
to absenteeism . Even this is a high figure. The Committee recommend 
that effective steps should be taken to reduce absontecisi even by 

offering incentives, if necessary ." 
The Unions relied upon the statement in para 78 of the samc book that in 
F . A .CT Alwaye Also absenteeism las iurreased . That also has been criticised by 
the Committee . Ext M15 , is a statement showing the number of days on which the 
25- A Grade Operators have absented themselyrs on loss of day. Ext. M18 is the 
same statement for 1964 to 1966 regarding Sri A . Venkitachalam and 7 other 
Operators. Ext. M15 shows that Venkltichalam absented on loss of pay in 1962 , 
for 1.83 days and in 1963, for 115 days . Ezt M18 shows that in 1964. 1965 and 


1436 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASVIVA I, 1889 Pes ]] 

- - - - - - - -- 
1068 the absenteeism of Sri Venkitachalam was at the rate of 176 , 112 and 173 
respectively . These Exts . also show that some others also were absenting thein 
Salves on loss ol pay to a great extent. Ext. Ml( a ) would show that scven out 
of the 25 employees considered for promotion were disqualified on the ground of 
excessive absenteeism , though all others excepting Venkitchalam , got only lower 
marks. In the above circumstances, it cannot be said that the Company was 
unjustified in taking that point as a criterion against promotion . It may be ofter 
consideration of all the above aspects that the Managing Director has passed an 
order on July 16tn , 1966 , copy of which is Ext. W9, to the effect that in order to 
( liscourage absenteeism in the factory, with a view to uicreasing production erlorts , 
in future, no einployee who has more than 50 days leave on loss of pay on the 
average in the 3 calendar years preceding the year in which the vacancy is sanction 
ed to be Alled up , will be considered for promotion / selection , to higher grades / 
posts . That shows that now it has been settled that this excessive ausenteeism 
will be treated a disqualification , 

There is a case for the Unions that the criteria should have been published 
earlier . The basis on which the promotions in question were effected on the 
reocmmendations of the Promotion Committee contained in Exts Mi to M7 the 
genuineness of which has been admitted by the Unions. Those documents also 
would show that the claims of most of the 31 employecs named in the order of 
Jeference were duly considered for promotion . In the circumstances the fact 
that the criteria were not published earlier has not seriously prejudiced the 
omployees in question . It follows therefore that their grievances are unfounded . 

Incidentally , the Unions pointed out two cases of promotions given to M / s . 
K . V . George and V . Dopas in 1963 in which the principle of absentocism was 
unored . Those were promotions which took place before the disputed promotions 
which were effected in 1904 . It was only subsequently that steps were taken to 
In he risini absenteeism with special reference to the consideration of ern 
ployces for supervisory posts and as a result, the criterion of disqualifying mer 
having an average of over 50 days absence on loss of pay for two previous years 
( 1962 and 1963 ) was introdured and inarks also were allotted for attendance . 
It was under these circumstances that this criterion was not applied for the Erlection 
of M / s . K . V . George and y . Donas. It is pointed out on behalf of the Managc 
ment, that after the criteria was introduced in 1964 , as per Ext. M1, no promotion 
1. Supervisory Posts have been made without the criteria of absenteeism b - 1138 
strictly applied to one and all , and now that rule has come to stay as per Ext . W9 


Another point taken up by the Unions was that before the present Manage 
rrent took over the company , diferent criteria prevalled when A Grade Operators 
were promoted . In the first place there is no clear evidence or data produced to 
show the criteria under which promotions were effected in those earlier Cays . 
Ext M13 and M14 had not come into ellect in those days. Those promotions 
niade Jong ago are also not in dispute in these proceedings. Even assuming that 
different criteria were followed in those days, that does not mean that the present 
Lanagement cannct apply different criteria subsequently . There appears to have 
been no Promotion Committee in those days which came into effect only by 
Ext. M13 and M14 . Consequently promotions made in those days based on the 
subjective satisfaction and recommendation of the respective officers and depart 
uiental heads, cannot be compared with the promotions elected by the present 
ufanagement mainly on the basis of the provisions in M13 and M14 . 


This leads us to the point raised by the Unions that the distribution of marks 
( weightage to various factors ) adopted for promotions was not fair and that 
very low weightage only was given for service and seniority and that the opi 
nions and impressions of the officers concerned were given too much weight. In 
His oonnection , the question of Alling up Ext. W4, confidential report form 
vras also made the subject matter of criticism . The main thing which was pointed 
out in this regard was that the adverse comments made in such confidential re 
forts were not brought to the notice of the employces concerned . It is in this 
connection that the union relied upon Ext . W47 regarding the keeping of confl 
dential records of Government servants , wherein there is a provision for com 
munication of such remarks to the enplovers concerned . As has already been 
pointed out, Ext. W17 cannot be made applicable to the employees in factories 
and it may be noted also that even in Governments the rules came into existence 
only in August 1966 . 

No doubt it may be necessary for the sake of natural justice that such ad 
verse comments may be notified to them so as to afford an opportunity to auch 
employees to amend their ways and conduct in future . However in this case , 


fre. 3( ii)] THE GAZET TE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 18A9 3437 


it has not been established by the uniong as to the particular manner in which 
such non -notifications has prejudiced the cmployees in question . There is 
no case for the unions that any particular superior was prejudiced towards any 
particular employce in question and that any particular supervising officer who 
had occasion to deal with the confidential reports had done any prejudicial 
act to any employee concerned . So the arguments in this regard of the unions 
have only to be repelled . Coming to the question of more weightage for senior 
ity , it was pointed out that for all non - selection posts , the main criteria should 
be seniority by length of service , unless proved inefficient or unsatisfactory on 
record . In this connection , it is also pointed out that the total marks for service , 
according to Ext. M1 was 35 out of a total of 165 and that was not føir und was 
unjust . It cannot be said that seniority alone could be the criterion , even in the 
lowest cadres but seniority cum suitability should have becn the criteria . That 
principle was not seriously opposed on behalf of the unions, So it was for find 
ing out suitability , more percentage of marks were allotted by the Management, 
We think , that the same cannot come within the perview of victimisation , un 
fair labour practice or malafides, when it is secn that the same rule was made 
applicable to one and all of the employecs concerned . Further it is seen that 
some of the other items for which more marks have been put, as confidential 
reports interviews etc. could also partly depend upon their length in service 
and experience and application and aptitur!c to their work . However it may 
be recalled in this connection that no management is competent in fixing their 
own standards in the case of promotions, provided malaides have not been 
made out. 


That the Management had no idea of victimising the union oficials is also 
seen from another circumstance pointed out by the management. Reference 
was made to Ext. M8, from which it is seen that Sri A . Sukumaran W /No. 578 
Joint Secretary of the Titanium Workers Union and Sri A , Jawaharlal, another 
Trade Union official (WW1) of the workers Union have been promoted . In this 
connection , it was also pointed out that cxcepting for WW11 , Balakrishna Pillai, 
the aggrieved persons have not come forward to swear to their individual griev 
ances. Even Sri Venkitachalam (No. 1 in the list ) has not gone into the box . 
though he was taking active part in the proceedings like cross- examining the 
witnesses arguing his case and cven submitting hearing notes . The individual 
casc regarding No . 1 Venkitachalam has alrrarły heen dealt with . As vegards the 
others in the above group of A grade Process Operators, the only point they 
have to urge in their favour is seniority as against those already promoted as per 
Ext. Mi list. Most of the complainants have secured only very poor marks 
under Ext, MIA . On the whole the argunents of the unions in general, have 
only to be repelled . 


Promotion of 5 charge - hand fitters as Assistant Supervisors, — 

The next point for consideration would be the attack against the promotion of 
5 charge - hand fitters as Assistant Supervisors , by Sri K . Madhavan who was not 
promoted . It is seen that there were 5 posts of Assistant Supervisors to be Alled 
up from the category of charge-handl Atters . Six senior most charge -hand Atters 
were interviewed in December 1963. The selection list is Ext. M 3 . On the basis 
of the marks scored by them , five candidates were selected , Sri K , Madhavan , 
W /No, 198 , No. 25 in the list of persons mentioned in the order of reference and 
No. 6 in Ext. M3 complains that he was denied promotion unjustifiably , No 
doubt, as is seen from Ext, M3, he got the same marks as that of Sri K . N . Chal 
lappah Achari, No. 3 in Ext. M3. Between the two, Sri Chellappan Achari was 
selected because he got mode marks in the interview — 19 as against 17 as can be 
Keen from Ext . M3. As regards attendance both of them got 5 marks each and 
for length of service 8 marks each , Sri Madhavan has not come forward to 
swear particularly regarding his alleged preferential claims if any as against the 
promoted Chellappan Achari, nor as to how the Management has acted prejudi 
cially to him legally or factually . In these circumstanres , we hold that the 
unions have not established how the complaint of denial of promotion to Sri 
Madhavan is not justified . The claim in this respect of Sri. Madhavan has only 
to be denied . 


Promotion of one A Grade Electrician as charge - hand Electrician . 

There was vacancy of a charge -hand in the electrical section in May 1964 . 
It appears that a practical test was held in which the senior most four electri 
cians were called for the test. The selection list is Ext. M4. Only Sri K . Gopi 
nathen Nair, No . 1 in Ext . M4 sat for the test. He secured 133 marks out of 200 
and was promoted , as he got the qualifying inarks. Sri S . Sukumaran Nair and 


3438 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[Pari jlar 


Sri K . Sivasankaran , No . 8 and No. 12 , respectively in the list of persons attached 
to the reference order and No. 3 and No. 4 respectively in Ext. M4 have raised 
complaints against the promotion . Sri Francis Decruz, No. 2 in Ext. M4 who is 
Btated to be senior to the complainants have not come forward to impeach the 
said promotion . Mwi, has given evidence regarding this promotion . He has 
sworn that Sri Gopinathan Nair has passed the Electrical Supervisors tests also . 
It may also be noted here that neither Sri Sukumaran Nair nor Sri Siyasanka 
ran has gone into the box to show how the promotion of Sri Gopinathan Nair 
was illegal or irregular . In these circumstances the complaint in this respect 15 
baseless and has only to be rejected. 
Promotion of 4 A Grade ftters as charge - hand fitters. 

The following persons in the list attached to the reference order have challen 
ged this set of promotions. 


Name 


Serial No. in the list. 


1. P . Kumaran Nair 
2 , B Dass 
3 , Kuttan Pillai 
4 . C . Thomas John 
5 . C . C . Verghese 
8 . C . C . Cherian 
7 . P . Krishna Pillai 


Of the above 7 persons Sri B , DASS No 28 and Sil Kuttan Pillal S . No. 29 , did 
not press their claims at the time of argumcnts . So the claims of the other five 
alone were pressed by the unions and their claims alone arise for consideration . 
01 the above 5 , Sri C . C . Cherian and Sri C . C . Varghese alone went into the 
box, as WW2 and WW8 respectively . MWI, has sworn to the case of the Manage 
ment, regarding their case in this respect . The complaint of the first three 
namely M / S . Kumaran Nair Dass and Kutian Pillai, is that they were not given an 
opportunity to marticinate in the serrction chargc -hand fitters . Of these , as we 
have already stated , the case of si, No. 27 , Sri Kumaran Nair, alone arises for 
consideration . It appcars that there were thrce vaccancies of Atters charge-hands. 
A practical test was given to 5 senior , A grade fitters on 5th November 1963 . 
Ext. M6 is the selection list. Those tlırce who got the highest marks were 
selected . Another vacancy arose within 6 months of the test and on the recon 
mendation of the promotion committee, Sri K , Şubbayan Achari, No. 4 in Ext. 
MO, who stood fourth according to the maik , was selected . The first two ( M / s . 
Kumaran Nair and Dass ) were not recommended for consideration hy thy Engineers 
concerned which was a criterian followed for that promotion . The circumstances 
and the principles under which that selection was made, has bcen set fourth in 
para 8 of the written statement of the Management; that aspect has been sworn 
to by MWI. Onc of the principles observed in that selection was that only those 
who have been recommended by at least two of the engineers , out of fnur were 
considered for selection . Thus the above two persons ( M / s . Kumaran Nair and 
Dass ) who were not so recommandacl got disqualified for selection . Here it may 
be noted that the said Sri Kumaran Nair has not got into thc box. Hence the 
evidence of MW1, in this respect stands unrhallenged . 


As regards Sri Kuttan Pillal S . NO), 29 , in the first place . he gave up his con 
tentions. Further he has all along been working as Rubber Liner , which is a 
different trade, from a Atter s trade Hence he was not considered for selection . 
This aspect has been sworn to by MW1. So there is no merit in his complaint 
also , 


Now we will consider the case of Sri C . Thomas John ( S . No , 11 ) in the list. 
It appears that he got the least narks under M6 and he failed in the practical 
test having got only 15 marks out of 50 marks, and therefore he was not selected , 
A contention was raised by union No. 1 that Sri Subbayan Achari, No. 4 in Ext. 
M6 was given higher mark for length of service than Sri Thomas John , even 
though both of them joined the company on the same date . This so called ano 
moly was explained by MW1. Sri Thomas John was promoted as A Grade Atter 
only on 1st November 1958 whereas Sri Subbayan Achạri was promoted as A 
Grade fitter , as early as 18th September 1950 . The marks for length of service 
was based on the service of the workmen concerned in the category in which 
they were working viz . as A Grade fitters. Thus Şubbayan Achari got 8 marks 


SLC, 3( )] 


THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : SEPTEVBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 3439 


more than Sri Thomas John accorcing to his length of service in the category . 
Thus it is clear that the claim of Sri Thomas John as against Sri Subbayan 
Achari is unfounded and devoid of nierit. 


ACHIC . C. Vargurile 
consider as 


Nexu, we will consider the case of Sri C . C . Varghese ( S . No. 23 ) in the list, 
He has exumined himsell as WW8 and hus proved Exts . W14 and W13 and W40 . 
Ext. 10 is the certificate of proficiency regarding the training he had in the trade 
uf welders ( rlectiicity ), Ext. W14 is the petition tiled by hin on 14th February 
1961 utlaukine the promotion of his junior , K . N . Divakaran ( W /No, 257) who 
was proinoted as Churge hand welder wtlı Ufect from 1st January 1961. His case 
Is that the above said Sri Divakaran s promotion , superseding his legitimate 
Crains was illegal, und thai he was not cursidered at the time of selection under 
Ext. Mu, Ext. 113 , is a nuthuri ylitol Hil a ly him on 7th February 1966 regarding 
the promotion of Divacaran , who wos his junior . Prima facie his case appears 
to be a hard cast , shut his claini ! these proceedings is disputed by the Manage 
merit on the follow Lecrinical grounds. Management relies upon Ext. Wi3 and 
Lyus , LU vad W39 sctlienlents accurdn18 Lo which his dispute cannot come up 
dar consideration belote this Arlitation Beard . In Ext. W19, it was specifically 
ugreed between the managenient and the unions that those specific cases of denial 
of promotions after 1st November 1963 alone were to be reviewed . From Ext, 
W20, they rely upon the provision under clause 3 ( iii ) that no persons already 
promoted will be reverted as a result of the settlement which may be arrived at 
between the parties in these procecdings . Further , they rely upon the fact that 
there was already a settlement regarding the claims of Sri C . C . Varghese on 
12th October 1961 under Ext. W39 which runs as follows: 

" The Managing director agreed to review the cases of the Fitter s and Welders 
mentioned in item III (a ) and (b ) of the Union s leller dated 14th February 1961, 
most sympathetically , on 1st January 1962. That that agreed settlement was 
inclusive of the case of Sri C . C . Varghese could be seen from Ext. W38 . The con 
tention put forward by the Manageinent now is that, there was already a settle 
ment regarding Sri Varghese in Ext . 39 and hence that cannot be reagitated now . 
The unions on the other hand would contend that even inspite of Ext. W39, the 
managing director has not done anything till now , even after 5 years , regarding 
the said Sri C , C . Varghese. That appears to be a hard state of affairs . Under 
such circumstances his claim could have been considered at the time of the 
promotion of A Grade Atters as charge hand fitters . It also appears from the 
evidence and circumstances that his technical qualification under Ext. W40 was 
not taken into account in promoting Sri Divakaran as against Sri Varghese . The 
only point sworn to by MW1 in favour of Sri Divakaran s promotion is that Sm 
Divakaran has studied up to V from while Sri Varghese lias studied only upto 
Malayalam 6th class and hence Divakaran had better general qualifcations. As 
regards W40 , certificate the management would say that the same was not pro 
duced before the management for consideration of his claims. In support up that 
argument. Management has produced Ext. M12 workmen s Record regarding Sri 
C . C . Varghese . It is true that the certificate had not been specifically mentioned 
in any of the relevant columns in Ext. M12 . But in the column of last employers 
he has stated corporation electric workshop Madras, wherefrom he had obtained 
Ext. W40. Another aspect pointed out on behalf oť the Management in regard 
to the claim of C . C . Varghese is that Divakaran s promotion was affected in 
1961, based on the recommendations of the then engineers, concerned , who are 
not now in the service of the company. Ext. M13 and the provisions regarding 
promotion commitice came into existence long after Sri Divakaran s vroinotion 
In 1961. the promotions were not done through a promotion committee : but were 
based on the subjective satisfaction and recommendation of the departmonial 
officers concerned . Hence the said promotion cannot be reconsidered now , on 
the question of violation of any particular principle or rule of law . As against 
Sri Varghese s claims for being called in for consideration at the time of Ext. M6 
promotion , it was pointed out by the Management that Sri Varghese is a welder 
and not a fltter and the trade of welder being different, he was not entitled to be 
considered as charge hand Atter . As regards the agreement in Ext. W39. MW1 
would swear that the management considered Sri Varghese s claim most 
sympathetically on 1st January 1962 for promotion , but due to the delay in ex . 
pansion programme to raise to 50 tons production , there is no scope for additional 
vacancy. The reason for the delay is stated to be beyond the control of the 
inanagement like foreign exchange , import of machinery etc . The management 
would also argue that it would not be conducive to the proper and smooth 
working of the welding section , if Sri Divakaran s Promotion is to be interferest 
with after six years, now : which would create heart burning to Sri Divakaran . 
Nevertheless, accepting the equitable as well as the legal arguments of the 


3440 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


management we are constrained to observe that the Management is in duty 
bound to adhere to the solemn promise made to the employee concerned under 
Ext. W39 and consider Sri Varghese s case most sympathetically by implementing 
their undertaking in some way or other, either by an immediate promotion by 
creating a vacancy or by making good his loss by increasing his total emolu 
ments." 
Sri C . C , Cherian : 

Now we will consider the case of Sri C . C . Cherian Sl. No. 9 in the list. He 
has examined himself as WW2 and has proved Ext. W3. He was not called in 
for consideration at the time of Ext. M6 promotion of A grade fitters to charge 
hands. The management would say that he was not called in because he was 
a machinist and not a fitter , at the time of selection under Ext. M6. His com 
plaint is that his juniors were promoted without giving him an opportunity for 
undergoing the tests . On his behalf the union has put forward the following 
arguments . That he is a fitter is clear from Ext. W3 order appointing him . 
which clearly states that he is raised to grade I fitter with effect from 12th June 
1951. That is supported by Ext. W2 letter from the company to him offering 
him the post of fitter . In the face of Exts . W3 and W2 it is idle to content that 
he is not a fitter . But the management would say that he is doing the functions 
of a machinist along with two helpers . As against this , the union has rightly 
pointed out that there is no recognised cadre or post as machinist in the company. 
Nothing , in the form of records has been placed before us to show that there is 
such a post . Hence it is clear that he is a fitter , doing the duties of a machinist . 
It is further pointed out on his behalf by the union , that the fact that he is asked 
to do another duty by the company without his consent or willingness , will not 
give right for the Management to avoid him when a promotion comes. Again 
there is no separate post of machinist charge hand and the same charge - hand 
supervises both fitters and machinist. It is therefore clear that he is a fitter 
and he also ought to have been given an opportunity for test and interview on 
5th November 1963 along with the persons mentioned in Ext. M6. Nevertheless 
owing to the agreements in Exts . W19 and W20 , it would be improper to set aside 
the promotions already made. We therefore recommend that Sri C . C . Cherian s 
case also will be considered for promotion as early as possible , 

Lastly , we will consider the case of Sri P . Krishna Pillai, S . No . 10 , in the list . 
According to the union to which he belongs, he is also a fitter, though he is doing 
the duties of a turner . His claims also ought to have been considered on 5th 
November 1963 along with the persons in Ext. M6. He was not called for inter 
view at that time. According to the Union , the charge -hand post is common to 
both fitters and turners. But here it may be stated that Sri Krishna Pillai has 
not come forward to swear in surport of his case nor has he produced any docu 
ments in his favour . On the other hand MWI swears as follows : P . Krishna 
Pillai is a turner. The trade of a fittor is not like that of a turner . There is no 
post of a charge -hand in that trade , that is turner trade. When the management 
asserts that he is not a fitter but a turner . the burden of proof is on the union to 
prove that Sri Krishna Pillai is really a fitter , by producing his order of appoint 
ment or order of promotion as in the case of Sri C . C . Cherian . In the written 
statement of the Management, they have stated that when a post of charge -hand 
is created in that category of turner. Sri Krishna Pillai s case will be considered , 
Sri Krishna Pillai having not established that he is a fitter , we think that we 
are constrained to hold that his claim is not proved . 
Promotion of six general labourers a : B . Grade Fitters 

The following persons in the list attached to the reference dispute this set of 
promotions, 


Name 


Serial No. in the list 


1 . K . Arjunan 
2. K . Sankaran 
3 , P . Madhavan 
4 . Sundarsanan , V . 
5 . Aliar Kunju 


Src, 3 (il ) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPI EMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3441 


Of the above , the union did not press the claims of M / s . P . Madhavan and 
Aliyar Kunju Si. No. 26 and 31 respectively . Hence , really the claims of the 
other three persons arise for consideration . These persons are general labourers, 
doing unskilled work in the various departments in the Factory . In January 
1964 , there were four vacancies of B Grade fitters . A practical test was held on 
26th December 1963 and the selection list is Ext. M7 genuineness of which is not 
challenged by the unions. Ten senior most general labourers working in the 
Engineering section were called for a trade test (practical test) . Out of these 
4 persons who got the highest marks were promoted on 3rd January 1964 . 3 
more vacancies arose within six months of the test and hence no fresh test was 
conducted and the next three in the order of rank based on the total number of 
marks were promoted through the promotion committee. Those three were , M / s . 
T . George M . Sreenivasan and P . Thampikunju , No. 3 , 10 and 4 respectively in 
Ext. M7. Out of these , Sreenivasan declined the promotion . Ext. M21 is the 
office order offering promotion to Sreenivasan and Ext . M22 is the office order 
informing Sri Sreenivasan that his promotion was cancelled , since he declined 
to accept the same. 


Sri K . Arjunan : 

Sri Arjunan is No. 6 in Ext. M7. He secured only the lowest total number of 
marks ( 83 ) and failed in the practical test securing only 13 marks out of 50 . 
Thus he was not promoted . He has given evidence as WW9 and has produced 
Ext. W6 , office memo, dated 25th April 1963, granting him an additional incre 
ment of Rs. 5 in appreciation of the good work done by him and Ext. W17 copy 
of a petition dated 6th June 1966 presented by him to the Managing Director, 
indicating his complaint that his juniors were promoted . His complaint appears 
to be that even without holding any test, his juniors , M / S . T . Ramakrishnan 
Vamadevan , K . Vijayan and Chakrapari were promoted. MW1 has given evi 
dence regarding this aspect . He would swear that general labourers are unskilled 
workmen , working in different department in the company and are interchange 
able from department to department. The Trade Unions also have not objected 
to these transfers. They are transferred in the exegencies of the requirements 
in the company and sometimes at their own request. Sri Arjunan had not 
requested for a transfer to any other department. When these general labourers 
are transferred , e .g . in the Rigger section or some other section , the workers get 
some training and when a promotion comes there , those trained men are usually 
rreferred in that section . The allegation that some of these transfers are made 
to favour these employees , is denied MW1 has explained how , some of the 
juniors or Arjunan has been transferred to other sections and subsequently rro 
moted In cross -examination nothing has been brought out for disbelieving MWI 
regarding this aspect . Accepting his evidence we do not see any in proprietory , 
grictimisation or unfair labour practice regarding the promotions of the above said 
allage juniors. It follows therefore that there is no substance in the above 
Sid cuiuriaints of Sri Arjunan and his claims are therefore denied 


M n K Sankaran and V . Sudharsınan : 

Mr. H . Sankaran ( Si No. 24 ) and Sr: Sudha : - anan (Sl. No. 30 ) huve not come 
" orward to swear regarding their claims. Sri K . Sankaran is an unskilled general 
labourer in the production department. The rigging section is not a part of the 
production department but is atlached to the engineering department MWI 
Swaas : Cat Sankaran cannot therefore ask for a promotion as rigger in the 
rigging section . Rigging is a job which calls for physical vigour, strain and 
anorer. e . Only those general labourers who are used to the working in the 
Rigging section as helpers are generally found to be able to cope with the difficult 
work of rigging. MWI also swears that it was because of that when a promotion 
arises in that section , workers with experience in that section alone are promoted 
after a test . 


In general, the promotions referred to in Ext. M8 was also in a way attacked 
by some of the unions. Here it may be pointed out that the promotions referred 
to in Ext. M8, are not strictly subject matter before this Arbitration Board . The 
promotions as per M8, are promotion from B grade operators to A grade opera 
tors . MW1 swears that the criteria for M8 promotion is given in Ext. W7, except 
the notes ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) under it , which notes came into operation only on 28th 
July . 1966 subsequent to the promotions under M8. Ext. M8, M10 and M10 ( A ) 
are the copies of the original orders . In the circumstances , as explained by MWI, 
we do not see any substance in the contentions of Sri Sankaran & Sri Sudarsanan , 
So their claims are also only to be denied 


3442 I HE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 [PART II , 

= 
M / s. r . Sukumaran Nair and R . V . George : 

Lastly we come to the complaints regarding the cases of M / s, T . Sukumaran 
Nair and R . V . George No. 19 and No. 20 respectively in the list of persons 
attached to the order of reference . Sri Sukumaran Nair has been examined as 
WW7. Their complaint is that they were denied promotions as plant controller . 
They were process supervisors and they should have been promoted to the post 
of plant controller . Sri Sukumaran Nair has sworn that a vacancy arose in the 
post of plant controller in 1965 and for which himself and R . V . George were also 
claimants . Ignoring their seniority and length of service , another junior hand , 
one Sri K . C . Pillai who had a total service of two years only as procesu super 
visor had been promoted as plant controller . Overlooking their claims Shri 
K . C . Pillal was given acting charge as plant controller on a few occasions and at 
that time, they had protested , The copy of the grievance petition filed by him 
on 28th June 1964 is Ext. W10 . According to him , promotion should have been 
based on experience and training only and the general practice in the company 
had been to attach more importance to experience and training. On that crite 
rion either Sukumaran Nair or R . V . George ought to have been preferred against 
Sri K . C . Pillai, This appears to be the gist of their compiunt. According to 
the management , the post of a plant controller is managerial and responsible 
post and does not come under the purview of the standing orders or Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 . MW1 has sworn that the Management has never taken any 
body other than a science graduate as plant controller . According to him , this has 
always been the practice, ever since the company come into functioning . The 
plant controller is in over all control over the plant and production in the com 
pany . That aspect is proved by Ext. M16 , office order. The management has 
also produced Ext . M17 . The Copy of the reply by the managing director to 
Sukumaran Nair , in reply to the W10 complaint, where in the claims of Sukumaran 
Nair has been refuted In Ext. M17 , it is further stated that the minimum qua 
lifications required for the plant controller s post is a graduation in science and 
considerable experience as process supervisor. In so far as the two supervisors 
referred to in Ext. M10 , who has been permitted to work in casual vacancies 
of plant controllers, one is a B .Sc., having considerable long experience as super 
visor and the other is a B .Sc. coupled with M .Sc., ( tech .) MW1 swears that Sri 
T . Sukumaran Nair and Sri R . V . George did not possess the required qualifica 
tions, Sri Sukumaran Nair is a failed intermediate in History , and Sri George 
has only an S . S . L . C . to his credit. Sri K . C . Pillai and Sri T , I. Cherian were 
promoted as plant controllers on 17th February , 1966 . They were process super 
visors prior to their promotion , Sri K . C . Pillai is a B .Sc., ( Science ) and M .Sc , 
( tech .) Sri T , I , Cherian is a graduate in science . These facts are sworn to by 
MW1 He further swears that the plant controller s post is not governed by 
Ext. M13 or M14 . The promoted persons had acted as plant controllers also before 
their promotions; while M / s . Sukumaran Nair and George had never even acted 
as plant controllers . Sukumaran Nair , himself admits in cross examination that 
there is no plant controller now in service who is not a graduate in science . Jie 
also admits that he is not a graduate in science. He also admits that he is cnly 
an intermediate , passed in two parts and failed in subjects (history ) . For the 
foregoing reasons, we do not see any ground for interfering with the promotions 
given to Mr. K . C . Pillai and Mr. T . I. Cherian , as against M / s. Sukumaran Nair 
and R . V . George. Their claims are therefore denied . 

Before closing, we wish to add a few words regarding the latter part of the 
issue referred to us namely " if not to what relief are they entitled " . Regarding 
reliefs ; we have to bear in mind , the agreement of the parties in Ext. W19 and 
W20 . In Ext. W19, under para 4 ( a ) it has been agreed that if any persons were 
recommended for promotion as a result of the review , they will be promoted 
in the next available vacancies in the cadre to which the promotion has been 
recommended . So also , in Ext. W20 , under the head promotions in para 3 ( lii) 
it had been specifically agreed between the Management and the unions that 
" no person already promoted will be reyerted as a result of para ( 1) above " . 
Most of the promotions in this case were early in 1964 and three years are now 
over , Interference with those promotions will upset the industrial peace in the 
factory . It is also seen that the promotions were effected from among the exist 
ing employees and no fresh hands were taken from outside. It is further seen 
that promotions were effected on the basis of some test or other , or on the basis 
of some criteria , though some of them might not have been notified earlier . 
Thus on equitable considerations also interference with the promotions effected 
would create dissentions and heart burn among the employees and will upset 
the industrial peace. Hence, as regards the deserving and hard cases referred 
to above the management will look into their claims in the light of the observa 
tions made above most sympathetically and without delay and will try to redress 
thelr grievances in whatever manner possible . We also wish to observe in 


Sic , 3(11)] THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23. 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3.143 

= 

= = 
general that it would be better and healthy, in the interests of all concerned 
that the criteria for promotions are notified earlier in consultation with the 
-unions, as far as possible , and also to bring to the notice of the persons concern 
ed the adverse remarks made in confidential records and got their explanations 
whenever necessary and thus giving them an opportunity to amend their ways 
and for improving themselves . It is also gratifying to note that subsequent to 
the promotions in question the management is declaring its policies and criteria 
definitely as is seen from documents like Ext. W9. Another redeeming and en 
couraging feature noted in Ext. W42 which is clear from the following question 
can also be quoted with advantage regarding the cordial relations coming into 
existence between the unions and the management. 

" The unions agreed that it is essential to have a definite pattern to be followed 
for promotions, so that personal prejudices and predilictions of supervisory on 
cers would have little impact on the overall result. Thcy however felt that 
the quantum of marks for the various factors may need some slight adjustments , 
The Managing Director welcomed the suggestions regarding the allocation of 
marks for various factors which would receive his carnest consideration . He also 
agreed to look into any specific cases of alleged injustice if pointed out to him " . 

If the unions and the management would go ahead in the spirit expressed in 
the above paragraph much dissentions and discord could be avoided and indus 
trial peace could be established within the factory, 

He take this opportunity to thank the Management and the Unions for their 
hearty cooperation with us and the efficient way in which they participated in 
the proceedings. 
• We pass this award accordingly , subject to the observations made above . 

The award will come into effect within 30 days of the publication of the Award 

in the Gazette . 
i Dated this the 26th day of July 1967 . 
1. SRI C . M . MATHEW , 

Chairman , 
2 . SRI. A . KARUNAKARAN , 

(Member ) 
3 . SRI K . JANARDHANAN PILLAI, 

(Member ) 
4 . Mr. J. B , SOUTAR, 

(Member ) 
5 . SRI P . BALACHANDRA MENON , 

(Member ) 
8 . PRAKULAM BHASI, 

(Member ) 
. 7 . SRI C . M . STEPHEN , 
(Member ) 

Note of Dissent 
While I agree with the observations and findings in the award regarding pro 
motions and while I fully share the views of the Chairman and other Honourable 
" Iembers regarding absentceism , I would suggest that Shri A . Venkitachalam 
and Sri R . Balkrishna Pillai who are office bearers of recognised unlong be 
treated differently because their absence from work has been also due to their 
union activities . There are industries and Government concerns which allow full 
leave of absence for the employees who are office bearers of recognised Unions, 
In case of promotions such leave of absence is never considered a bar and I sug 
gest that such healthy procedure be followed in the Titanium Products Ltd ., also 
so that industrial peace can be better secured . 

Sd / - P . BALACHANDRA MENON . 
I agree with Shri Balachandra Menon s views, 

(Sd ) Illegible . 
I agree with the above note of dissent. 
(Sd. ) Illegible . 

List of Appendices 
I. Documents marked on the side of the management 
M1. - Criteria for promotion , 
M1, ( a ) -- Selection list of chargehand. 
M2 - Circular No. 18 / 64 , dated 28th December 1964 of the Travancore 

Titanium Products Limited . Trivandrum . 


3444 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1881 


[PAR 


11 


M3. – Selection of Assistant Supervisors from chargehand fitters , dated 31st 

December, 1963. 
M4. — Selection of the post of the post of chargehand Electricians from A 

Grade Electricians, dated 5th June, 1964 . 
M5. — Statement of A Grade fitters their appointment and the date on which 

they were promoted to A Grade . 
M6. - Selection of charge hands from A Grade fitters, Practical Test on 5th 

November, 1963. 
M7,- Selection of B Grade Fitters Practical Test on 28th December, 1963. 
M8. — Order No. PWO ( 81), dated July 1, 1966 of the Manager of the Tita 

nium Products Limited . 
M9. - Order No. MD.43 /66 , dated 28th July 1968 of the Managing Director 

of the Travancore Titanium Products. 
M10.- Order No. MD. 47 / 66 , dated August 12 , 1968 of the Managing Director , 
M10 (a ).. . Appendix III Criteria for promotion . 
M11. — Statement regarding absenteeism . 
M12 .- Workmen s Record of Sri C . C . Varghese . 
M19 . — Copy of the certified Standing Orders for the workmen . 
M14 . - Copy of the certified Standing Orders for staff , 
M15 . - Statement showing the number of days on which the 25A Grade 

Operation absented themselves on loss of pay in 1982 and 1963. . 
M16 . — True copy of the office order issued by the Managing Director, dated 

6th May, 1965 . 
M17 . — True copy of the reply , dated 13th August , 1984 given by the manage 

ment to the grievance petition Aled by Sri Sukumaran Nair . 
M18 . — The Statement showing the absence on logs of pay in 1964 to 1966 

of A . Venkitachalam and 7 other process operators . 

Copy of Order dated 26th March , 1960 . 
M19 . Granting special allowance to Sri N . Kuttan Pillal. 
M20 . -- Copy of the implementation of agreement dated 12th October , 1961. 
M20 ( a ). — Memorandum of settlement, dated 12th October 1961 – Imple 

mentation report . 
M20 (b ).- Minutes of the discussion on 1st March , 1962 . 
M21. - -Copy of promotion order dated 25th May , 1964 given to Sri 

Srinivasan . 
M2 . - Communication addressed to Srinivasan when he declined to acrept 

promotion 


II. Documents marked on the side of the workers 
W1. - Order No. Est. 2 /65, dated 17th June 1965 regarding promotion in 

Lower categories of employees. 
W2 - Letter No. TAM / SRS / 8395 , dated 29th November 1949 of the Secrelary , 

Travancore Titanium Products Ltd ., to Sri C . C . Cheriyan , 
W3. -- Inter Office Memo., dated 12th June 1951 from the Managing Director 

to Mr. C . C . Cheriyan . 
W4Form of Employees Report of the Travancore Titanium Products 

Ltd ., Trivandrum . 
W5. - Memorandum of settlement, dated 5th August 1961 between the 

management of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd ., Trivandrum and 

the Titanium Products Labour Union , 
W0. — Letter dated 12th October 1961 from the Managing Director to four 

employees , viz . N . Krishnan Nair , N . Surendranathan Nair N . 

Sivasankara Pillal and A . Venkitachalam 
W7. Criteria adopted for promotion from B Grade to A Grade operators . 
W8. - B Grade to A grade operators , Date of sanction of posts, 291h 

November, 1965 . 
W9.- Order No. MD . 40 /66, dated July 16, 1966 of the Managing Director . 


Seq, 3(11 )) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967/ ASVINA I, 1989 3445 


W10 .- Copy of Grievance petition dated 28th June 1964 from T , Sukumaran 

Nair , Process Supervisor. 
W11.--- Letter, dated 25th October 1966 , by Management to Thankappan Nair 

(vide annexure to Titanium Products Labour Union ) . 
W12. - Report by Parliamentary Committee para , 77 , 
W13 , -Copy of petition , dated 7th February 1986 from C . C . Varghese , Work 

No . 208 . 
W14 . - Copy of petition , dated 14th February 1961 from C . C . Varghese . 
W15 . Copy of petition , dated 21st May, 1961 from C . C . Varghese . 
W16 . - Copy of certificate of good work issued to K . Arjupan work No. 76 . 
W17. - Copy of petition , dated 6th June , 1961 from K . Arjunan . 
W18. - Copy of letter No. TPL4 / D - 8 /63 - 64 from the General Secretary to 

the Managing Director . 
W19. - Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 5th November 1964 . 
W20 .- - Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 22nd October 1965 . 
W21. - Copy of letter , dated 14th February 1966 from the General Secre 

tary to the Managing Director, 
W22. - Copy of summary of discussions held 8th October 1966 , 
W23 . - Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 4th March 1985 . 
W24. - - Copy of letter, dated 31st March 1980 from the Chief Administrative 

Ofcer , to the General Secretary , Titanium Products Labour Union . 
W25 . - Copy of letter, dated 31st May 1960 from the Chief Administrative 

Omcer to the General Secretary . 
W26 . - Copy of letter , dated 17th January 1981 from the Managing Director 

to the General Secretary . 
W27. — Copy of letter, dated 30th May 1961 from the General Secretary to 

the Managing Director , 
W28 ,- Copy of letter , dated 26th June 1981 from the Secretary to the 

General Secretary of the Titanium Products Labour Union . 
W29 . - Copy of letter, dated 28th June 1961 from the Secretary to the 

General Secretary , Titanium Products Labour Union . 
W30 . - Copy of letter dated July 4 , 1981 from the Secretary to the General 

Secretary, Titanium Products Labour Union . 
W31. - Copy of letter , dated 3rd April 1984, 
W32, -- Copy of letter , dated 26th May 1984 . 
W33. — Copy of Inter office Memo., dated 17th May 1965 . 
W34 . — Copy of memorandum of settlement, dated 25th March 1966 . 
W35 . — Copy of letter , dated 31st December 1965 from the Personal Cum . 

Welfare Officer, to the General Secretary , Titanium Products Labour 

Union . 
W35 ( a ). — Copy of order , dated 30th December 1965 . 
W36 .- -Copy of amendment of Acting Allowance Rules , dated 14th January 

1966 . 
W37. – Copy of order , dated 15th July , 1966 . 
W38 . - Copy of letter , dated 14th February 1961 from the Titanium Workers 

Union to the Managing Director. 
W99. -- Copy of Memorandum of settlement, dated 12th October 1961. 
W40 . - Copy of certificate of Proficiency, dated 10th June 1947. 
W41. - Copy of petition , dated 25th March 1960 from C . C . Varghese . 
W42. - Copy of Minutes, dated 11th March 1964. 
W43. - Copy of letter, dated 10th March 1964 from the General Secretary 

to the Managing Director . 
W44 , - - Copy of letter , dated 24th March 1964 from the General Secretary , 

Titanium Workers Union to the Managing Director . 
W45 . — Copy of letter , dated 18th March 1964 . 
W46 . — Copy of letter, dated 12th July 1985. 


- 3446 TUE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEVBER 13 , 1967 / ISVINI I, 1889 


[ PART 1 ] 


- 


- 


- 


W47. - Copy of Instructions for preparations and Maintenance of Confi 

dential Reports on Government Servants . 
W48 . — Amendment to the Certified standing orders Nv . M . 240 / ( 4 ) / 05 , 

dated 15th June 1966. 
W48 ( a ). - Extract from the Conciliation Rcport No. C . 25 ( 8 ) / 64, dated 2nd 

May 1964 . 
W49. -- Extract from the Minutes and modifications made by the Regional 

Labour Commissioner ( C ) Madras on the standing orders for staff 

and workmen of Travancore Titanium Products Ltd ., Trivandrum , 
W50 . — Extract from the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Trivandrum in 

Industrial Disputes No. 20 / 1961, 
W51 , - Extract from the D . O . letter of the Regional Labour Commissioner 

to the Secretary, Travancore Titanium Products Limited and to the 
General Secretaries of the Three Unions functioning in Travancore 
Titanium Products Ltd ., concerning amendments to the Promotion 
clauses in the standing orders. 

III. Witness examined on the side of the Management 
MW1. - J. K . Mani, Personal- Cum -Welfare Officer . 

IV . Witness examined on the side of the Unions 
WW1. - Jawahar , Process Operator. 
WW2. - C . C . Cheriyan , 
WW3. - P . S . Sankaran Nair , Process Supervisor , 
WW4. — K , Koshy, Plant Controller . 
WW5. - P . Ananthanarayanan , Plant Manager . 
WW6. - - N . Sthanunath , Production Manager . 
WW7. - T . Sukumaran Nair , Process Supervisor, 
WW8. - C . C . Varghese. 
WW9. - K . Arjunan . 
WW10 , - - N , R . Nair , Secretary . 
WW11 . - R . Balakrishna Pillai, Process Operator, 

[No. 24 / 58 / 66 -LRI. ] 
New Delhi, the 14th September 1967 
S . O . 3356 . - In pursuance of section 17 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ) , the Central Government hereby publishes the following award of the 
Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, in the industrial dispute between the employers m 
relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited , Amritsar and their workmen 
which was received by the Central Government on the 7th September , 1967. 
BEFORE THE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNAL , DELHI 


PRESENT : 
Shri Anand Narain Kaul, Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi, 

29th June, 1967 
RFEERENCE I.D . No. 6 OF 1966 

BETWEEN 
The employers in relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited , Hall 
Bazar, Amritsar , 

AND 
Their workmen as represented by the All India Bank Employees Associa 

tion , 780 - Ballimaran , Chandni Chowk , Delhi, 
Shri Sudesh Verma for the management. 
Saryashri Durga Das and H . L . Parwana for the workmen . 

AWARD 
By S . O ., dated the 27th April, 1966 , the Central Government has referred to 
this Tribunal for adjudication an industrial dispute existing between the employers 
in relation to the Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited , Hall Bazar. Amritsar ( to be 
- Teferred to hereinafter as the Bank ) and their wormen as represented by the 


SEC, 3 (ity ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 3449 


All India Bank Employees Association , 780 - Ballimaran , Chandni Chowk , Delh ) 
( to be referred to hereinafter as the Association ) , The following are the terms 
of reference: 
" 1 . What should be the quantum of bonus payable to the employees of the 

Punjab Cooperative Bank Limited , Amritsar , for the year 1964 ? 
2 . Whether , out of the bonus payable under item 1 above , the management 

are justified in making any deductions on account of bonus paid for 
the year 1962 , in accordance with the Award of the Industrial Tribu 
nal, Chandigarh , dated the 16th March , 1966 and published with the 
Notification of the Government of India in the late Ministry of 
Labour and Employment No . S . O . 978 , dated the 22nd March , 1965. 
If so , to what extent." 


2 . Both the aforesaid parties have submitted to me their respective written 
statements and rejoinders . They have also filed their respective calculation 
charts . It was agreed between the parties that the issues will be the same as 
the terms of reference . 

3 . Briefly stated the case of the Association , as set out in its written statement, 
is that the Bank announced its profits for the year 1962 but did not pay any 
bonus to its employees as was required under the provisions of the Desai Bonus 
Award . The matter went to the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh for adjudication 
which gave its award on the 16th March , 1965 , directing the Bank to pay bonus 
to the employees for the year 1962 at the rate of one month s basic pay and 
accordingly the Bank implemented the award of the Chandigarh Tribunal and 
made the payment to the employees at the rate of one month s basic pay in 
April , 1965 . Again for the year 1961, the Bank announced its profits but did 
not pay any bonus to its cmployees as was rcquired under the provisions of 
the Desai Bonus Award . This action of the Bank , according to the Assocration , 
is not justified , inasmuch as the payment of Bonus Act , 1965 , provides that even 
if the concern does not show profits in any particular year and shows loss, it 
must pay bonus equivalent to 4 per cent of the total wage earned by an cmployce 
in the specific year for which the bonus is claimed . It is further alleged that 
the Bank offered to the employees the payment oľ bonus at reduced quantum 
for the year 1964 on the ground that in terms of the provisions of the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1965 , the employees were entitled to only 4 per cent. According 
to the Association , the Bank did not actually make the payment and contended 
that as bonus for the year 1962 was paid at a higher rate under the Award , so 
the bonus for the year 1904 at 4 per cent under the Payment of Bonus Act 
stands alljusted against payment of bonus for the year 1962. It is further allcg 
ed that the bonus dispute for the year 1962 was actually not pending prior to , 
the payment of Bonus Ordinance and moreover the provisions of Section 39 of 
the Payment of Bonus Act make it quite clcar that the very provisions of the 
said Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation to any corresponding law 
relating to investigation and settlement of the bonus dispute . According to the 
Association , therefore, the action of the Bank in deducting and / or reducing the 
minimum bonus payable for the year 1964 at the rate of 4 per cent of the wayes 
earned by the employees for the said year in terms of the provisions of Scc 
tion 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 , is unjustified and illegal . 


4 . The Bank in its written statement has taken some preliminary objections 
which are to the effect that the union filed a plaint in the Labour Court, Jullundur 
on the matter in dispute on the 28th December , 1965 , which was subsequently 
withdrawn by the union that, although technically no decision on merits was 
formally given by the Court but the Court after hearing the interested parties 
considered the union s case as not tonable and allowed it to be withdrawn . Ac 
cording to the Bank , the Labour Court, Jullundur, was competent to decide the 
matter and the withdrawal under these circumstances must be considered as 
amounting to acceptancc of the contentions raised in its written statement and 
therefore the matter should be treated as finally closed The Bank has invoked 
the principles of resjudicata in support of its stand that the matter cannot be 
agitated again . 


5 . On the merits thc case of the Bank is that the bonus dispute in respect of 
the year, 1962, was referred by the Government on the 21st July , 1964, to the 
Chandigarh Tribunal, which gave its award on the 18th March , 1965 and there 
fore , the dispute was pending on the 1st December , 1964. The Bank has pleaded 


3448 IHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


that for such disputes which were pending on 1st September, 1964 , Section 33 of 
the Payment of Bonus Ordinance makes the following provisions: 
" Section 33 : Where immediately before the 2nd September 1964 , any indus 

trial dispule regarding payment of bonus relating to any account 
ing year ending on any day in the year, 1962, and any subsequent 
accounting year was pending before the appropriate Government or 
before any Tribunal or other authority constituted under the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947, or under any corresponding law relating to 
investigation and settlement of industrial disputes in a State , such 
dispute shall be decided in accordance with the provisions of this 

Ordinance." 
Section 34 of the said Ordinance makes the provisions of the Ordinance to over 
ride the terms of any award , agreement etc . made before the commencement 
of the Ordinance . The Bank , therefore , contends that the award given by the 
Chandigarh Tribunal on the 16th March , 1965 , became void and over -ridden and 
the bonus for the year 1962 had to be re - determined in accordance with the said 
Ordinance and the payment already made on the basis of the Chandigarh Tribu 
nal s award becomes adjustable on re - calculation . It is , pleaded that the Bank 
management re - calculated the bonus payable for 1962 and 1 64 under the said · 
Ordinance and after deducting what had already been paid under he " over 
ridden " award , tendered the remaining sum payable to workmen in August, 
1965 , which was, however, not accepted by the workmen and is lying at their 
disposal The management, therefore , contends that the claim of the workmen 
be dismissed with costs . 

6 . According to the rejoinder filed on behalf of the Association , the preliminary 
objections raised by the Bank in its written statement are unfounded and base 
less inasmuch as the Labour Court did not decide the issue under reference as 
admitted by the Bank itself and the question of tes judicata does * not arise . 
According to the Association , the application was withdrawn due to some techni. 
cal dcfects and permission to file fresh application was sought from the Labour 
Court, which allowed the petitioners to withdraw the application with liberty 
to file fresh application . This Tribunal has , therefore , full powers to adjudicate 
upon the dispute , 

7 . On the inerits of the case , it is stated that the Bank is bound to pay mini 
mum 4 per cent of the total wages earned by the employees for the year 1964 
towards bonus having regard to the provisions of Section 10 of the Payment of 
Bonus Act. Every year for the purpose of bonus, according to the Association , 
is a distinct year and no adjustments can be made by an employer against bonus 
on any account. The amount of bonus due for a particular year must be paid by 
an employer . It has further relied upon the Provisions of the Desai Award on 
Bonus for the banking industry having regard to Section 39 of the Payment of 
Bonus Act according to which the provisions of the said Act shall be in addi 
tion and not in derogation of the Industrial Disputes Act or any corresponding 
law relating to investigation and settlement of the industrial disputes and has 
attempted to show that according to the calculations under the Desai Bonus 
Award , the bonus due to the employees for the year 1964 comes to Rs. 35 ,529. 
According to the Association , the management has failed to establish that there 
was any pendency of the bonus dispute for the year 1962 prior to 29th May , 
1965 and in fact the bonus dispute for the year 1962 was no more pending prior 
to the payment of Bonus Ordinance . The award given by the Chandigarh Tribu 
nal on the 16th March , 1965 , has already been implemented by the management 
and if the management had any grievance against the said award , it should have 
approached the proper legal authorities to get the award set aside, and in the 
presence of the binding character of the award , this Tribunal cannot interfere 
with the award of the Chandigarh Tribunal, since it cannot sit as an appellate 
court over the award of that Tribunal. The plea taken up by the management 
that it has not paid any dividend for the last six years under directions from 
the Reserve Bank of India has nothing to do with the payment of bonus for the 
year 1964. According to the Association , it is wrong on the part of the managc 
ment to suggest that the Desai Bonus Award has become a dead letter and Sec 
tion 39 of the payment of Bonus Act, according to the Association , is a short 
answer to the plea . 

8 . After hearing the parties on the points raised by them in their pleadings 
or at the hearing I recorded my tentative conclusions on the 6th January , 1967, 
which are as follows: 
" ( 1 ) It seems to me that in the face of the provisions of Section 34 of the 

Payment of Bonus Ordinance , 1965 , the directions if any given 


The 


SEC, 3 ( 11) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASYINA 1, 1889 3449 


regarding bonus in what is known as the Desai Award are no longer 
applicable and the provisions of the Ordinance or of the Payment 
of Bonus Act, 1965, have the effect of superseding of such directions 
contained in any previous award in so far as they are inconsistent 
With the provisions of the Ordinance or of the Act . 


( 2 ) Section 39 of the Ordinance has not the effect of saving the provisions 

of the Desai Award since it is only an award and not " a law relating 
to investigation and settlement of Industrial disputes in force in a 
State .” The provisions of the Desai Award , cannot therefore, be 
invoked in the present dispute . 


( 3 ) The award of the learned Chandigarh Tribunal was passed in Maren , 

1965 , prior to the promulgation of the Payment of Bonus Ordinance , 
1965 . The award was not appealed against and has in fact been 
implemented . I do not think such an award , which was not subsist 
ing on the date of the promulgation of the Ordinance could be re 
opened . The provisions of the Ordinance are not retrospective in 
operation . The provisions of Section 33 of the Ordinance only mean 
that if any dispute regarding Payment of Bonus relating to any 
accounting year ending on any day in the year 1962 was pending 
before any Tribunal or other authority , such a dispute shall be 
decided in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance . It 
may be that the dispute regarding bonus for 1982 was pending before 
the 2nd September, 1964 , with the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh 
but that dispute had been finally disposed of and the award imple 
mented before the Ordinance came into force . The provisions of 
Section 33 of the Ordinance even read with Section 34 ( 1 ) cannot 
have the effect of nullifying any award already passed by a compet 
ent authority . An award which has been implemented and is not 
subsisting is not covered by the provisions of S . 34 ( 1 ) . In any case 
it is not for the respondent Bank to decide such a question and it 
was only an authority before which such a dispute was pending or 
before which such a dispute is taken that could have been compet 
ent to decide it . The present dispute cannot be decided on the basis 
of the provisions of the Ordinance which stand repealed . 


( 4 ) It is not for this Tribunal to sit in judgment over the decision of the 

Chandigarh Tribunal or re -open that award . 


( 5 ) The Ordinance was superseded by the Act and subsequently the cor 

responding provisions of even Section 33 and of Section 34 ( 2 ) of the 
Act have been declared void by the Supreme Court. It is doubtful 
if these provisions can now be invoked ," 


9. In the light of these conclusions, the calculation charts filed by the Associa 
tion based on the provisions of the Desai Award became infructuous and the 
union was directed to file , with advance copy to the management a fresh calcula 
tion chart based on the provisions of the Payment of Bonus Act, 1965 , showing 
the available surplus, if any , if the Association claims the benefit of the provi 
sions of Section 11 of the Act . The management was directed to Ale its counter 
chart, if any, or its comments on the fresh chart . While the Association filed 
the bonus calculation chart on the date fixed for the purpose, the management 
failed to Ale the same and took repeated adjournments and it was only on the 
imposition of costs that the calculation chart was filed by the management and 
the case was then fixed for further proceedings . 


10 . I have again heard the learned representatives of the parties namely 
Şarvashri Durga Das and H . L . Parwana on behalf of the workmen and Shri 


3450 THE GAZETI E OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASVINA I, 1889 


[Part ] I- - 


- 


- 


Sudesh Verma on behalf of the management. In the light of the tentative conclu 
sions recorded on 6th January , 1967, the workmen now claim only 4 per cent 
as bonus in terms of Section 10 of the Payment of Bonus Act and Shri Parwana 
has declared that he does not claim the benefit of Section 11. Therefore the 
claim is confined to 4 per cent of the wages earned by each employee during the 
accounting year or Rs. 40 whichever is higher . The term wages has been defin 
ed in Section 2 (21) of the Act itself and it includes Dearness Allowance . Shri 
Sudesh Verma in reply to Shri Parwanu had nothing to say against a claim based 
on Section 10 of the Act except the plea already taken in regard to adjustment 
against the payments made for the year 1962. This plea has been already rejected 
in my tentative conclusions. These tentative conclusions are affirmed and an 
award is passed accordingly that bonus for the accounting year , 1964, shall be 
paid to each employec in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 of the 
Act . This disposes of term No. 1 of the reference . There shall be no deductions 
out of the bonus payable as above, on account of any bonus paid for the year 
1962 under the award of the Industrial Tribunal, Chandigarh . This disposes of 
term No. 2 of the reference . I make an award accordingly and direct that it 
will be implemented within 6 weeks of the publication of the award in the Oncial 
Gazette . 


(Nine pages ). 


29th June, 1967 . 


( Sd .) ANAND NARAIN KAUL , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, Delhi. 

[No . F . 51/49/ 65 - LRIVI 


Neu Delhi, the 15th September 1967 


8 .. 0 . 3357 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 39 of the Industrial 
Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947) , the Central Government hereby directs that the 
powers exercisable by it under sub - section ( 1 ) of section 34 of the said Act, shall, 
in respect of the offences punishable under Chapter VI of that Act, be cxercis 
able also by all the Deputy Chief Labour Commissioners ( Central ) and all the 
Regional Labour Commissioners (Central) . 


[No. F . 1 / 78 /07 -LRI.] 


S . O . 3358 , - Whereas the Central Government being satisfied that the public 
Interest so required had declared by a Notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the provis ) to sub - clause (vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the In 
dustrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , (being the Notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (Depart 
ment of Labour and Employment) No . S . O . 957, dated the 15th March 1967 the 
zinc mining industry , to be a public utility service for the purposes of the said 
Act for a period of six months from the 25th March , 1967 ; 


And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 


Now , therefore, in cxercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947) , the Central Government hercby declares the said industry to be a public 
utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six month , 
from the 25th September , 1967. 


[No, F . 1 /83 /67 -LRI. ) 


Şza . $ ( ii )] THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ASVINA I, 1889 1 

- - - - - - 

New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 
S . O . 3389 .- -Whereas the Central Government being satisfied that the public 
interest so required had declared by a notification made in pursuance of the 
provisions of the proviso to sub - clause ( vi ) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the 
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) . [ (being the notification of the Govern 
ment of India in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Rehabilitation (De 
partment of Labour and Employment) No , S . O . 958, dated the 15th March 1987) ], 
the lead mining industry , to be a public utility service for the purposes of the 
said Act for a period of six months from the 25th March , 1967 ; 

And whereas the Central Government is of the opinion that public interest 
requires the extension of the said period by a further period of six months; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to sub 
clause (vi) of clause ( n ) of section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 
of 1947 ), the Central Government hereby declares the said industry to be a 
public utility service for the purposes of the said Act for a further period of six 
months from the 25th September 1987. 

[No . F . 1/83 /67- LRI.] 


ORDERS 


New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S . O . 3360 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Punjab National Bank 
Limited Calcutta and their workmen In respect of the matter specifed in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas , the Central Government considers It desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act . 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta constituted under section 7A of the said Act. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Punjab National Bank Limited 
Calcutta , in requiring Shri Harihar Singh , Godown Chowkidar, to retire from 
gervice with effect from the 1st July 1967, was justified ? If not , to what relief is 
the workman entitled ? 

[No. 51/ 49 /67- LRIII. 1 
S . O . 3361, — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the British India Steam 
Navigation Company Limited , Calcutta and their workmen in respect of the 
matters specified in the schedule hereto annexed ; 

And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said dispute for adjudication to the Indus 
trial Tribunal, Calcutta , constituted under Section 7A of the said Act . 

SCHADULE 
( 1 ) Whether the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Navigation Company 
Limited , Calcutta are entitled to get the interim relief and dearness allowance as 
recommended by the Central Wage Board for Port and Dock Workers ? If so , from 
what date ? 

( 2 ) Whether the demand of the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Nayl 
gation Company Limited , Calcutta for grant of festival holidays which are allow 
ed to other permanent employees is justified ? If so , to what relief are they 
entitled ? 

( 3 ) Whether the demand of the watchmen of Messrs British India Steam Navi 
gation Company Limited , Calcutta for leave travel concession is justifed ? I 
50 , to what relief are they entitled ? 

[No. 28 /81 / 87-LRIII. ) 


3452 THE GAZETTE OF INDLA : SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II-- 


New Delhi, the 14th September 1967 
S . O . 3362 . Whereas an industrial dispute exists between the employers in 
relation to Messrs Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, Bombay and their workmen 
represented by the Transport and Dock Workers Union , Bombay ; 


And , whereas the said employers and workmen have , under sub - section ( 1 ) 
of section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act , 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , agreed to refer 
the sald dispute to arbitration by a written agreement and have forwarded to 
the Central Government under sub -section ( 3 ) of the said Act, & copy of the 
said arbitration agreement; 


Now , therefore , in pursuance of sub - section ( 3 ) of section 10A of the said Act, 
the Central Government hereby publishes the said arbitration agreement which 
was received by it on the 4th September, 1987 , 


(AGREEMENT) 


(Under section 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947) 

BETWEEN 


Name of Parties : 

Representing employers— M / s. Darabshaw B , Cursetjee s Sone. 
Representing workmen — The Transport & Dock Workers Union , Bombay. 


It is hereby agreed between the parties to refer the following industrial dis 
pute to the arbitration of Shri Salim M , Merchant, at present Presiding Oficer , 
Central Government Industrial Tribunal, City Ice Building , Bazargate , Bombay - 1 . 


(i ) Specific matter in dispute is as follows: 


" Whether the claim of the Dock clerks of M / s . Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s 

Sons, for Acting Allowance is justified in respect of all import 
vessels handled by the Company and where the Company has not 
employed Assistant Supervisors . If so , from what date the arrears 
of Acting Allowance should be paid ? " 


( ii ) Details of the party to the dispute including the name and address of 
the establishment or undertaking involved . 

M / s. Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sons, Darabshaw House, Ballard Estate , 

Bombay - 1, 


( ili ) Name of the Union , if any , representing the workmen In question . 

The Transport & Dock Workers Union , Bombay . 
( iv ) Total number of workmen employed in the undertaking affected — 26 . 
( v ) Estimated number of workmen affected or likely to be affected by the 

dispute - 28. 


We further agree that the majority decision of the arbitrator shall be binding 
on us. 


The arbitrator shall make his award within a period of six months or within 
such further time as is extended by mutual agreement between us in writing . In 
case the award is not made within the period aforementioned , the reference to 
arbitration shall stand automatically cancelled and we shall be free to negotiate 
for fresli arbitration . 


Szc . 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVIXI 1 , 


3453 


I, Salim M . Merchant, hereby consent to act as Sole Arbitrator in this matter, 

Sd / Salim M , Merchant, 
Bombay, 29 - 8 - 67 . 

Signature of the Parties . 

For Darabshaw B . Cursetjee s Sona, 
Witnesses: 
( 1) Sd / - Iligible . 

Sd / - Illigible, 
( 2 ) Sd / - Illigible . 

Partner. 

Representing employer , 
sd /- Ilugible . 
Secretary , Transport & Dock Workers 

Union , Bombay . 

Representing workers. 
Sd / - Illigible 
President, Transport & Dock Workers 

Union , Bombay . 

(No. 28 / 92 /87 /LRIII.) 
New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 
S . O . 3383 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Andhari Mica Mine of 
Messrs Chatturam Horilram (Private ) Limited , Jumritelalya and their workmen 
in respect of the matters specified in the Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( d ) of sub 
section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 1947 ) , the 
Central Government hereby refers the said disputes for adjudication to the addi 
tional Industrial Tribunal, Dhanbad constituted under section 7A of the gald 
Act. 

SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Whether the management of Messrs Chatturam Horilram (Private ) 
Limited, Post Office, Jumritelaiya, was justified in terminating the services of the 
following workers of the Andhari Mica Mines at Jorasimar ? 
( 1 ) Manger Singh ( 2 ) Lalu Singh ( 3 ) Ganesh Singh (4 ) Nando Singh 

( 5 ) Bandhan Singh ( 6 ) Anup Singh ( 7 ) Jagadish Singh ( 8 ) Sarju 
Singh ( 9 ) Kedar Singh ( 10 ) Parvat Singh (11) Darwka Singh ( 12 ) 
Gopal Singh ( 13 ) Narayan Singh ( 14 ) Parvat Singh No. 2 ( 15 ) 
Jamuna Singh ( 16 ) Bandhu Singh ( 17 ) Jubla ] Singh ( 18 ) Laldhari 

Singh ( 19 ) Kailu Singh (20 ) Narayan Singh No . 2 . 
( 2 ) If not, to what relief are the said workmen entitled ? 

[No. 20 /6 /87 -LR . I.] 


$ . 0 , 3364 . — Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
Limited , Agra and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said 
dispute for adjudication ; 

Now , therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - secton ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Mithan Lal shall be the Presiding Officer , with headquarters at 
Allahabad and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 

SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Central Bank of India Limited , 
Belanganj, Agra in terminating, with effect from the 1st Junc , 1967, the services 
of Shri K . D . Kaushik . Clerk -cum - tvpist at Etawah Branch of the Bank , WAS 
justified ? If not, to what reliet is the workman entitled ? 

[No . 51 / 44 /67 /LRIII .] 


3454 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / AŞVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


S . O . 3365 . - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that an industrial 
dispute exists between the employers in relation to the Central Bank of India 
Limited , Lucknow and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the 
Schedule hereto annexed ; 


And , whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer 
said dispute for adjudication ; 


the 


Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 7A and clause 
( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 10 of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 of 
1947 ) , the Central Government hereby constitutes an Industrial Tribunal of 
which Shri Mithan Lal shall be the Presiding Omcer , with headquarters at 
Allahabad and refers the said dispute for adjudication to the said Tribunal. 


SCHEDULE 
Whether the action of the management of the Central Bank of India Limited . 
Lucknow in refusing to allow Shri Ran Bahadur Singh , peon in their branch 
at Gorakhpur to officiate as Jamadar from May 1967 , is justified ? If not to 
what relief is he entitled ? 

[No. 51 /40 /67 /LRIII.) 


$ . 0 . 3366 . - Whereas the Central Governmen is of opinion that an industrial dispute exists 
between the employers in relation to the Polisather Clay Mine of Perfect Pottery Comrary Ltd . 
Jabalpur and their workmen in respect of the matter specified in the Schedulc hereto er ucxed , 

And, whereas the Central Government considers it desirable to refer the said dispute for 
adju lication ; 

Now , therefore , in exercise of the powers conferred ty clause ( d ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 ( 14 cf 1947), the Central Government hi reby refers thc : ajd 
dispute for adjudication to the Industrial Tribunal, Jabalpur constituted under Section o th 
said Act. 


SCHEDULE 


" Whether the employers in relation to the Polipathar Clay Mine of Perfect Pottery Cempany 

Limited , Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh ) were justificd in closing the said mine and 10 

trenching the following 81 workers with effect from the 1st July , 1967. 
If not, to what relief are theworkmen entitled ? 


Name 


Father s Name 


Ticket No 


Si. 
No. 


U 


mnon 


...... 


878 
788 
551 
760 
871 
8to 


Shri Ram Prasad i 
Shri Hiralal . 
Shri Baredi 
Shri Pardeshi 
Shri Mannu . 
Shri Mohan . 

Shri Fatte 
8 Shri Ramesh 
9 Shri Jageshwar 
lo Shri Kodu , 
JI Shri Indrabhan 
12 Shri Mangal 
13 Shri Bhura 
14 Shri Rampati 
15 Shri Kunware 
16 Shri Samna 
17 ShriMoti Lal 
18 Shri Houla bux 
19 Shri Samna . 
20 Shri Mithai Lal 


........ 


Mangaram 
Kamla Prasad . 
Padka . 
Bhulai . 
Mohan . 
Sodhu , . 
Chhidami 

Ram Ratan 
• Ramadhar 
Mool Chand 
Ramdeo 
Gaja ) 
Sukhdeo 
Deo Sharan 
Jugga , 
Sukhdeo 
Ram Kumar 
Sheikh Md. 


900 
876 
910 
963 


754 
797 


. 


Birbal 


Lalloo . 


SBG. M(1) 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA: SEPTEMBER 25, 1987 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3455 


Name 


Father s Name 


Ticket No. 


No, 


767 


770 
771 


776 


NNN 


792 
796 
809 


820 


832 


37 


0000000000000000 


45 


00 


47 


0 


884 


21 Shri Shyam . 
22 Shri Kandhila ! 
23 Shri Budai 
24 Shri Achchhe Lal . 
25 Shri Sheopal . 
26 Shri Ayodhya Prasad 
27 Shri Dwarka . 
28 Shri Surajbhan . 
29 Shri Jodha , . 
30 Shri Ramdulare 
31 Shri Charan Lal 
32 Shri Chhotelal 
33 Sh Bakhat Singh , 

Shri Bharoga . 
33 Shri Ghurai . 

Shri Kashi 

Shri Hanuman 
38 Shri Jagaldco 
39 Shri Baijnath . 
40 Shri Mahesh . 
41 Shri Sukhdeo 
42 Shri Bishesar . 

Shri Sonelal . 
Shri Paramlal 

Shri Sukhlal . 
46 Shri Jagdeo . 

Shri Daddilal 
Shri Shyamlal 

Shri Phool Chand 
50 Shri Ramdularc 
SI Shri Dulichand 

Shri Bakhedi 
Shri Baboola ) 
Shri Raghunath 
Shri Tugga 
Shri Ganga Prasad . 

Shri Ram Lakhani 
58 Shri Bhura 

Shri Pancham Puri , 
60 Shri Surajdin 
61 Shri Mani 
62 Shri Ramphal 
63 Shri Vishwanath : 

Shri Dasaiya 

Shri Tikaram 
66 Shri Bihari 
67 ShriMunna Singh 
68 Shri Ramesh 

Shri Gouri Shanker 
70 Shri Kishori Lal 
71 Shri Ramdhani 

Shri Soore , . 
73 Shri Murari 
74 Shri Chunnilal 
75 ShriLakhanlal 
76 Shri Amritlal . 
77 Shri Awaseri 
78 Shri Phool Chand . 
79 Shri Ram Bishal 

Shri Nanhelal 
81 Shri Teji Lal. 


Ramadhin 
Sheodia . 
Gayadin 
Mahadeo 
Sheodhare 
Vasudeo 
Kamla 
Ghutku 
Bishram 
Harmohen 
Sujhelal 
Rambes 
Todar Singh 
Kallo , . 
Mangal . 
Mahadeo , 
Ramadhin . 
Girdhari 
Ram Manohar 
Rameshwar , 
Baldeo . . 
Sadhoo . 
Chunnilal 
Hemraj 
Mangal . 
Todhan 
Buddha 
Tuakoo 
Kunnoo . 
Buddha 
Ghasi 
Baraiya . 
Badri , 
Kalka . 
Danga . 
Shcobalak 
Mouni , . 
Sukhlal , 
Chhote Puri 
Devi 
Lalla 
Chunni . 
Shanker , 
Rama . . 
Lukai , . 
Pugu , 
Kandhi Singh 
Mahadeo 

Shikhtoo 
, Jamuna 

Mahabir 
Binte 
Binte . 
Dharampal 
Patiram 
Durjan , 
Murli 
Mandor . 
Ganga Ram . 
Jhunni , 
Shenker . 


887 
889 


52 


891 


894 
895 


899 
901 


916 


65 


918 
927 
957 
964 
1150 
1170 
1171 
1172 
1176 
1181 
1184 


1185 


1186 


1187 
ΙΙ9Ι 
1192 
1193 
1196 
1197 


80 


[No. 36/29/67 -LRI.] 
S. S. SAHASRANAMAN ; Under Secy . 


3456 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1964 /AVNA 1, 


[PART 11 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 14th September 1967 
S . O . 3367. — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section ( 1 ) of section 
83 of the Mines Act, 1952 ( 35 of 1952 ) , the Central Government hereby exempts 
women employed in concreting work at Barsua Iron Ore Mine of M / s. Hindustan 
Steel Llinited, from the operation of the provisions of section 46 at the said Act 
in so far as the said provisions prohibit the employment of women on surface 
after 7.00 P . M . gubject to the conditions that no woman 80 exempted shall be 
permitted to be employed in such work between the hours of 10 .00 P . M . and 
5 . 00 AM , and that the periods of work of every such woman shall be so arranged 
that there shall be an interval of not less than eleven hours between successive 
periods of work . 

[No. 6 / 4 /67 - M - I.) 
J. D . TEWARI, Under Secy. 


(Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Dethi, the 16th September 1967 
S . O . 8368 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by clausę ( a ) of sub - section ( 3 ) 
of section 17 of the Employees Provident Funds Act , 1952 ( 19 of 1952 ) , the 
Central Government hereby directs that every employer in relation to an estab 
fishment exempted under clause ( a ) or clause (b ) of sub - section ( 1 ) of section 
17 of the said Act, or in relation to an emp oyee or a class of employees exempted 
under paragraph 27 , or as the case may be, paragraph 27A , of the Employees 
Provident Funds Scheme, 1952, 

( 1 ) shall invest every month within a period of fifteen days of the date of 
collections not less than 80 per cent ( eighty per cent.) of the provident fund 
accumulations in respect of the em byees in such establishment, or such em 
ployee or as the case may be , such class of employees , which are available after 
making provision for refunds to outgoing members or their nominees or heirs , 
in Government securities (hereinafter referred to as Central Government securi 
ties ) as defined in sub - clause ( i ) or sub - clause ( ii ) of clause ( a ) of sub -section 
( 2 ) of section 2 of the Public Debt Act , 1944 ( 18 of 1944 ) , being securities created 
and issued by the Central Government; 

( 2 ) shall invest within the period specified in direction ( 1 ) above the balance 
of the said accumulations which are so available in any Government security 
(whether created and issued by the Central Government or by any State Govern 
ment ) referred to in clause ( a ) of the said sub - section ( 2 ) of section 2 of the 
Public Debt Act, 1944 ( 18 of 1944 ) or in any Savings or other Certificates issued 
by the Central Government; 

( 3 ) shall not re - invest such accumulations (whether invested in securities 
created and issued by the Central Government or in certificates issued by the 
Central Government or in securities created and issued by a State Government) 
in any securities other than Central Government securities ; 

( 4 ) shall not convert any securities or certificates referred to in direction ( 3 ) 
in which such accumulations have been invested into any securities other than 
Central Government securities ; and 

(5 ) shall formulate proper procedure for prompt investment of such accumu 
lations in accordance with the aforesaid directinns and shall have it approved by 
the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner concerned . 

[No. 36 (7) /87 -PF - I.} 
P . SADAGOPAN , Dy . Secy . 


( Department of Labour and Employment) 

New Delhi, the 19th September 1967 
S . O . 9369. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 9 ) of section 1 
of the Employees State Insurance Act, 1948 ( 34 of 1948 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby appoints the 24th day of September , 1967 as the date on which the 


SEQ, 8(tt)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 28, 1987/ ASVINA 1, 1860 


157 


provisions of Chapter IV ( except sectiong 44 and 45 which have already been 
brought into force ) and Chapters V and VI [except sub -section ( 1 ) of section 70 
and sections 77 , 78 , 79 and 81 which have already been brought into force] of 
the said Act shall come into force in the following area in the State of Kerala , 
namely : 

The area comprising the revenue village of Kodumba in the Palghat Taluk 
in the Palghat District in the State of Kerala , 

[File No. 13 ( 14 ) /87 -HI.] 

H . C . MANGHANI, Under Secy . 
MINISTRY OF INFORMATION & BROADCASTING 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
$ . 0 . 3370. - In excrcise of the powers conferred by Section 5 ( 1 ) of the Cine 
matograph Act , 1952 and sub -rule ( 3 ) of rule & read with sub - rule 2 of rule 9 
of the Cinematograph ( Censorship ) Rules , 1958 , the Central Government hereby 
appoints following persons as members of the Advisory Panel of the Central 
Board of Film Censors at Madras with immediate effect. 

1. Smt, Indira S . Mehta 
% . Dr. T . N . Ramachandran 
3 . Shri T . S . Pattabiraman 
4 . Shri K R Sundararajan 

(No. 11 / 3 /65 -F ( C ). 1 
H . C . KHANNA, Dy. Secy . 


ORDERS 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 
S . O . 3371 . - In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of the 
enactments specifed in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central Government , 
after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , Bombay here 
by approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule annexed hereto 
In all its language versions to be of the description specified against it in column 6 
of the said Second Schedule , 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
(1 ) Sub -section (4 ) of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952) . 
( 2 ) Sub -section ( 3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 

( Regulation ) Act , 1953 ( Bombay Act XI of 1953 ) . 
13 ) Sub -section (4 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 
( Regulation ) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


$ . Title of 
No the film 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the Nume of the pro - Whcthcr a Scientific film or a 
Applicant ducer 

film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing with 
news and current events of a 
documentary film 


- 


- 


I Mahara h : 284M 

try News 
No. 183 


Director of Publicity , Govern - 

ment of Muharrihtra , Bombay , 


Film derling with news and 
current events ( For release in 
Mrharashtra Circuit only ) 


(No . F . 24 / 1 / 67 -FP App. 1192 . ] 


S . O . 3372 . - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central 
Government after considering the Icommendations of the Films Advisory Board ; 
Bombay hereby approved the Almg specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 


3458 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1987 /ASVINA 1, 1899 


[ PART II 


annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against each in 
column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1) Sub -section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1952) . 
( 2 ) Sub - section ( 3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

( Regulation ) Act, 1953 (Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953) . 
( 3 ) Sub -section (4 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 
Regulation ) Act, 1958 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


S . Title of 
No the film 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the Name of the Pro - Whether a scientific film or a 
Applicant ducer 

film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or a documentary film . 


1 


2 


3 


Director of Information , Govern - Flim dealing with news and 
ment of Gujarat, Ahmedabad . current events ( For release 

in Gujarat Circuit only ) . 


1 Mahiti- 198 . 12M 
chitra No. 

84 
Sabarkar - 599 . 54M 
tha Vikas 
Darshan 


Dc. 


Documentary film ( For release 

in Gujarat Circuit only ). 


3 Rakhe 

Chetrata 


304 50M 


Do . 


Film intended for educational 
purposes (For release in 
Gujarat Circuit only ). 


[ No . F . 24 / 1 / 67- FP App . 1193- ] 


8 . 0 . 3373. -- In pursuance of the Directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central 
Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay hereby approves the Alm specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Hindi to be of the description specified against it in column 6 
of the said Schedule , 


THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub - section (4 ) of Section 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Cinemas ( Regulation ) 
Act, 1955 (Uttar Pradesh Act No. 3 of 1956 ) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


S . Title of 
No the film 


Length 

35mm 


Name of the 

Applicant 


Name of the pro - Whether a scientific film of a film 
ducer 

intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
Or a documentary film 


4 


6 


I Aic Mere 298 . 7cm 

Bachche 


Director of Information , Gove n - Documentary film (For release 

ment of Uttar Pradesh , Luck - in U . P . circuit only ). 
now . 


[ No . F . 24 / 1/ 67-FP App . 1194 .] 


these Bm 


THE CAVETTI OF INDIA :-SIPTEMBER 23 , 1987 /ASVINA 1, 1890 3459 


8 . 0 . 3374 , - In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto , the Central 
Government after considering the recommendation of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay hereby approves the Alm specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in all its language versions to be of the description specified against 
. it in column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub - section ( 2 ) of Section 5 of the Assam Cinemas (Regulation ) Act, 
1953 (Assam Act XIV of 1953) . 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


S . Title of 
No. the film 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the Name of the Pro - Whether a scientific film or a 
Applicant ducer 

film intended for educational 
purposes or a film dealing 
with news and current events 
or e documentary film 


Sonali 
Dhananir 
Sadhu 


457 
M 


Director of Information & Public Documentary film (For release 

Relations, Govt . of Assam , in Assam Circuit only ). 
Shillong. 


[No. F . 24 / 1 / 67-FP App. 1196 . ] 
New Delhi, the 14th September 1967 
S .O . 3375 . In pursuance of the directions issued under the provisions of each 
of the enactments specified in the First Schedule annexed hereto the Central 
Government after considering the recommendations of the Film Advisory Board , 
Bombay hereby approves the film specified in column 2 of the Second Schedule 
annexed hereto in Gujarati to be of the description specified against it in 
column 6 of the said Second Schedule . 

THE FIRST SCHEDULE 
( 1 ) Sub - Section 4 of the Section 12 and Section 16 of the Cinematograph 

Act, 1952 (Central Act XXXVII of 1962) ; 
( 2 ) Sub -Section ( 3 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Saurashtra Cinemas 

(Regulation ) Act, 1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) ; 
( 3 ) Sub - Şection ( 4 ) of Section 5 and Section 9 of the Bombay Cinemas 
( Regulation ) Act, 1953 ( Saurashtra Act XVII of 1953 ) , 

THE SECOND SCHEDULE 


Title of the 
film 


Length 
35mm 


Name of the 
Applicant 


Name of the 
Producer 


Weather @ Scientific film 
or a film intended for cdu 
cational Purposes or a filmn 
dealing with news and cur 
rent events or a document 
ary film , 


. 


23 


( 1 ) Turang No 

Kasabi 


279 . 31 M 


Director of Information , 
Government of Gujarat, 
Ahmedabad , 


Documentary film ( For 
relacse in Gujarat Circuit 
only ) . 


[No. P . 24 / 1/67-FP App. 1199). 
BANU RAM AGARWAL , Under Secy . 


TIL 


co THE GATTU OF INDIKI 


D 


ER 29 , 18 


- 


- 


- 


- - 


MINISTRY OF OOMMERCE 

New Delhi, the 13th September 1967 
S . O . 3376 . — In exercise of the powers conferred under sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
6 of the Central Silk Board Act 1948 (61 of 1948 ) , the Central Government here 
by appoints Shri Mahabir Dass, Member , Rajya Sabha and Member of the 
Central Silk Board as Vice -Chairman of the Central Silk Board for the period 
upto and including the 12th May , 1989. 

[No. F . 22 / 1/67 - Tex (G ).) 
K . SRINIVASAN , Dy. Secy . 


( Office of the Jt . Chief Controller of Imports and Exports ) 

ORDERS 


Bombay , the 24th July , 1987 


SUBJECT. - Order for cancellation of Custom copy of the licence No , PCG / 

2053323 dated 10th November , 1965 , issued in favour of M / s . The 

Government Woollen Mills, Srinagar, Kashmir , 
S . O . 8377.- M / s. The Government Woollen Mills , Kashmir was granted an 
import licence No . P /CG / 2053323 dated 10th November, 1965, for Rs. 18,66 ,033 
for the import of woollen textiles machinery from Belgium under Belgian Credit 
( Deferred Payment Terms) for the licensing period AM 65. They have applied 
for a duplicate custom copy of the licence on the ground that the original cus 
tom copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced . It is further stated that the 
original licence was not registered with any Customs House and not utilised . 

2 , In support of this contention , the applicant has Aled an affidavit on & 
stamped paper duly attested before the Justice of Peace, Greater Bombay . I am 
satisfied that the original custom copy of the licence No. P / CG /2053323 dated 
10th November, 1965, has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate 
custom copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original 
custom copy of the licence No. P / CG / 2053323 dated 10th November , 1965 , Is 
cancelled , 

[No, V . I 


Bombay, the 27th July 1967 


SUBJECT , Order for cancellation of Customs purposes copy of licence No., P / 88 / 

1530048 dated 12th February , 1965 , for Rs. 1688 issued in favour of 
M /8 . New Poona Industries, Bombay Poona Road , Mile No . 103 / 2 
S . No. 227 and 228 / 1, Post Pimpri Penicilin Factory Pimpri, Dist. 
Poona , Mah . State . 


S .O . 3878 . — M / s . New Poona Industries , Poona was granted an import licence 
No. P / ss / 1530048 dated 12th February, 1965 , for Rs. 1 ,688 for the import items 
shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period AM - 65 from G . C . A , 
They have applied for a dup icate copy of the licence on the ground that the 
original Customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced . It ig 
further stated that the original licence was registered with Bombay Customs 
House and was utilised for Rs. 1264. 


2 . In support of this contention , the applicant has filed an affidavit on a 
stamped paper duly attested before P . M , Dandekar, Notary , Maharashtra State I 
am satisfied that the original licence No . P / ss / 1530048 dated 12th February , 
1965, has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate Customs purposes 
copy of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence 
No. P /59 / 1530048 dated 12th February , 1965, is cancelled. 


(No. 3.) 


Sea Huy 


THE GAZETT , OF INDIA ARTEMEER ,* 9 * PASYIN * I, 199 200 


Bombay , the 11th August 1967 
SUBJECT. - Order of cancellation of Customs purposes copy or licence No . P / 88 / 

1554658 dated 25th August, 1966 , for Rs. 43,648 issued in favour of 
M / s. U . K . Roller Flour Mills , 263, Central Avenue Road , Scheme. 

Lakadganj Lay out, Nagpur - 2. 
8 . 0 . 8379 , - M / S . U . K . Roller Four Mills, Nagpur was granted an import 
licence No . P ./ ss / 1554658 dated 25th August, 1966 for Rs. 43, 848 for the import 
Atems shown on the reverse of this order for the licensing period AM - 67 from 
B . C . A . They have applied for a duplicate copy of the licence on the ground that 
the original Customs purposes copy of the licence has been lost or misplaced . 
It is further stated that the original licence was not registered with any Customs 
House and not utilised . 

2 . In support of his contention , the applicant has filed an affidavit on a . 
stamped paper duly attested before the Court of the Taluka Magistrate , Nagpur.. 
I am satisfied that the original licence No . P /88 / 1554658 dated 25th August, 1966 , 
has been lost or misplaced and direct that a duplicate Customs purposes copy 
of the licence should be issued to the applicant. The original licence No. P / 58 / 
1554658 dated 25th August, 1966 , is cancelled . 

(No. 4. . 

SMT. M . D CogTA , 
Dy. Chief Controller of Imports & Exports 
for Jt. Chief Controller of Imports and Exports. 


(Once of the Chief Controller of Imports and Exports, New Delhi) 

ORDER 

New Delhi, the 8th September 1967 
S . O . 3380. - M / s . Philips India Ltd ., Calcutta were granted an Import Licence 
No. G / DG / 2100430 / C / XX / 17 - 18 / CH / 17- 18 , dated 4th December , 1963 for Rs. 6 ,584 
for the import of spare parts for Speech input equipment falling under 78 ( VIII) / V 
of the I . T . C . Schedule . As the above licence which has not been fully utilised 
has expired on 30th May, 1964 with an un - utilised balance , both the copies of it 
are hereby cancelled . 

[No. F . 132 -P / Cont. / 83 -64 / GLS / 592. ]! 


New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3381. — M / s. The S . K , F . Ball Bearing Co . Pvt. Ltd ,, Bombay were granted 
An Import Licence No. G / RC / 2083416 / R / IB / 20 / CH / 19 - 20, dated 25th November , 
1984 for Rs. 3 ,720 , for the import of 4 Nos . Axle Box Housing Complete as per Drg . 
NO. Z -4107 - A falling under 65 ( 5 ) (ili ) / V of the I. T . C . Schedule . As Controller of 
Stores, Southern Railway , Madras has cancclled the Railway Order No. EAI / 142 / 
$ / 7972 , dated 12th October , 1984 both the copies of the above Import Licence , 
which have not been utilized , are hereby cancelled . 

[No. 190 - S / Rly . / 64 -65/GLS / 802 . ] 

S . A . SESHAN , 
Deputy Chief Controller of Imports and Exports 

for Chief Controller of Imports and Exports: 


MINISTRY OF FOOD , AGRICULTURE , COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT AND 

CO -OPERATION 

(Department of Food ) 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1967 
S . O . 3382. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 42 of the Warehous 
ing Corporation Act, 1962 (58 of 1962) , tht Central Warehousing Corporation , 


3162 THE GAZETFL OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /AŠVINA I, 1889 


PART II 


with the previous sanction of the Central Government, hereby makes the follow 
ing regulations further to amend the Central Warehousing Corporation Employees 
Provident Fund Regulations, 1962 , namely : 

1 . ( 1 ) These regulations may be called the Central Warehousing Corporation 
Employees Provident Fund (Amendment) Regulations , 1967. 

(2 ) These regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication in 
the Offical Gazette . 

2 . In the Central Warehousing Corporation Employees Provident Fund Re 
gulations, 1962, (hereinafter referred to as the said regulations ) , in regulation 


(i ) in clause (b ) , the words " or from the beginning of the month follow 

ing that in which he completes his period of probation whichever is 

later " shall be omitted : 
( it) in the proviso , for the words " other than casual remuneration from tho 

Corporation " , the words " remuneration from the Corporation , other 

than casual remuneration ," shall be substituted . 
3. In the said regulations, for regulation 10, the following regulation shall be 
substituted , namely :- - 

“ 10 . Corporation s contribution :--- Save as otherwise provided , the Corpora 

tion shall contribute to the Fund every month as employer s contribu 
tion an amount equal to the amount subscribed by each of the subscri 

bers : 
Provided that the amount contributed by the Corporation in respect of 

any subscriber shall not exceed 8 - 1 / 3 per cent of the pay earned by 

the subscriber during that month : 
Provided further that the Corporation shall not be liable to make any 

such contribution in respect of a subscriber who has been permitted 
to subscribe to the Fund under the proviso to regulation 7." 

[No . F .28 -8 / 07 - SG .II.) 
DEVAKI NANDAN GOYAL, Under Secy . 


(Department of Agriculture ) 

New Delhi, the 4th September 1967 
$ . 0 . 3383. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricul 
tural Produce (Grading and Marking ) Act , 1937 ( 1 of 1937) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby makes the following rules further to amend the Cotton Grading and 
Marking Rules , 1962, the same having been previously published as required by 
the said section , namely :- - 

1. These rules may be called the Cotton Grading and Marking (Amendment) 
Rules, 1987 

2 . In the Cotton Grading and Marking Rules , 1982 , in the Table under Sche 
dule I, against item VIII, after entry 9 in column 2 . the following entry shall be 
Inserted , namely : 
" 10 Suyodhar " . 

[No. 13- 9 / 67 - AM .] 
New Delhi, the 13th September 1987 
8 . O . 8384 .- The following draft of certain rules further to amend the Cardamom 
Grading and Marketing Rules, 1962. which the Central Government proposes to 
make , in exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Agricultural Pro 
duce (Grading and Marking ) Act, 1937 ( 1 of 1937) are published , as required by 
the said section for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby 
and notice is hereby given that the said draft will be taken into consideration on 
or after the 10th October , 1987. 

Any objections or suggestions which may be received from any person with 
respect to the said draft before the date aforesaid , will be considered by the Cen 
tral Government. 


SEC . $(it)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1899 3463 


Draft Rules 
1. These rules may be called the Cardamom Grading and Marking ( Amend 
ment) Rules , 1967 . 


2. In the Cardamom Grading and Marking Rules, 1962, 
( 1) în rule 1, for sub - rule ( 2 ), the following sub -rule shall be substituted . 

namely : 
" ( 2 ) They shall apply to Cardamom (Elettaria cardamom ) ( capsules, 

seeds and powder ) produced in India ;" 


( ii) 


in rule 3 , for the words and figures " Schedules I to VI" , the words, 

figures , and letter " Schedule I to VIA " shall be substituted ; 


( iil) in rule 4 , for the words and figures " Schedule I to VI" the words, figures , 

and letter " Schedules I to VIA " shall be substituted ; 


( iv ) for rules 5 and 6 , the following rules shall be substituted , namely : - - 


" 5. Grade designation marks: -- 


( 1 ) The grade designation mark in the case of cardamom (Sapsules , 

seeds and powder ) packed in polythene or paper bags shall con 
sist of a design incorporating the number of the certificate of 
authorisation , the word " Agmark " and the grade, approved by 
the Agricultural Marketing Adviser , 


( 2 ) The grade designation mark in the case of Cardamom (Capsules , 

seeds and powder ) packed in tin or glass containers shall consist 
of a paste - on label, specifying the grade designation and bearing 
the design of a map of India with the word " Agmark " . 


( 3 ) The grade designation mark in the case of Cardamom (Capsules, 

seeds and powder ) packed in containers of Jute or Cloth or 
Wooden cases as also in containers in which sealed polythene 
bags of graded cardamom (Capsules, Seeds and Powder ) are 
packed , shall consist of label specifying the grade designation 
and bearing a design consisting of an outline map of India with 
the word " Agmark " and the figure of the rising sun with the 
words Produce of India and ( Tau 3791 ) resembling 
the one as set out in Schedule VII, 


6 . Methods of Marking:-- 


( 1 ) The grade designation mark shall be securely affixed to or printed 

on each container in a manner approved by the Agricultura ) 
Marketing Adviser , 


( 2 ) In addition to the above , the following particularg shall also be 

clearly and indellbly marked on each containers : 


(a ) Date of packing in code or plain letters , 
(b ) Lot number , and 
(c ) Net weight 


( 3 ) An authorised packer may, after obtaining the prior approval of 

the Agricultural Marketing Adviser , mark his private trade mark 
on a container, in a manner approved by the said ofcer , provid 
ed that the private trade mark does not represent a quality or 
grade different from that invlicated by the grade designation mark 
affixed to or printed on the container in accordance with these 
rules." . 


3464 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


(4 ) after Schedule VI, the following schedule VIA shall be added , 
namely : 

SCHEDULE VI- A . 

( See rules 3 and 4 ) 
Grade designation and definitions of quality of Cardamom powdar. 


Grade 
Designation 


General Characteristics 


Special Characteristics . 
Moisture Total Ash 
percent ash percent insoluble 
by weight by weight indilute 
Max . Max , Hel percent 

by weight 

Max . 


- - - - 


Standard 


14 . 0 


8 . 0 


3. 0 


1. Cardamom powder shall be the material 

obtained from the Seeds scparated from the 
capsulcs of Electaria cardamomum ( L ) . 


2 . It shall be free from admixture, from mould 

growth , from insect infestation or mustry 
odour. 


3 . It shall be free from coarse particles and 

ground to such a fine less that the whole 
of it passes through a 500 micron siçve . 


[No, F . 13 - 21 /67 - AM .) 
E . K . BALASUNDARAM , Under Secy . 


(Department of Co -operation ) 


New Delhi, the 5th September 1967 


S . O . 3385 . — In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5B of the Multi-Unit 
Co -operative Socletles Act, 1942 (6 of 1942 ) and in supersession ct the former 
Ministry of Community Development and Co - operation (Department of Co - operation ) 
Notification No. 3 - 14 / 84 -CT, dated the 29th / 30th January , 1965 , the Central Govern 
ment hereby directs that all the powers or authority exerciseable by the Central 
Registrar of Co -operative Societies under the said Act , shall also be exerciseable 
by Shri R . Pasupathi, Director of Industries and Commerce, Madras, in respect of 
the Multi -Unit Industrial Co - operative Societies which are or are deemed to be 
actually registered in the State of Madras, subject to the condition that any 
proposal for registration of new Multi-Unit Industrial Societies or amendment to 
the bye- laws of existing or new Multi-Unit Societies shall have the prior approval 
of the Central Government. 

[ No. 7 - 13 /66-Credit ] 


S . Q . 3386 . -- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 - B of the Multi-Unit 
Co - operative Societies Act , 1942 (6 of 1942 ) and in supersession of the Ministry of 
Food , Agriculture , Community Development and Co - operation (Department 
of Co - operation ) , Notification No . 7- 13 / 66 -Credit, dated the 2nd January, 1967, 
the Central Government hereby directs that the following amendment shall be 
made in the Notification of the Government of India in the former Ministry of 
Community Development and Co -operation (Department of Co- operation ), No. S .O . 


Sxa. ski)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1987 / ASVINA 1 , 1889 3465 


1593, dated the 28th June , 1961, published at page 1555 of Part II, Section 3 (4 ) of 
the Gazette of India of the 8th July , 1961 , namely : -- 

In the said Notification against Serial No. 18 , for the entry " Shri D . K . Jaln " , 
the entry " Shrl Bishan Dass " shall be substituted . 

[ No. 7- 13 / 66- Credit. ] 
___ v . V. NATHEN, Dy. Secy . 


culture and 1940. Drance of Regulati 


(Indian Counell of Agricultural Research ) 

New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 
S . O . 3387. - In pursuance of Regulation 2 ( lv ) of the Standing I inance Committee 
Regulations, 1940 , Dr. K , Ramiah , Vice Chancellor, Orissa University of Agri 
culture and Technology, Bhubaneswar, and a member of the Governing Body of 
the Indian Council of Agricultural Hescarch has been elected by that Body to 
be a member of the Standing Financc Committed of the Council for a period 
ot one year with effect from the 30th May , 1967 , or till such time as his successor 
is duly elected by that Body. whichever is later , 

[ No. 35 ( 1 ) / 67 -CDN ( I) . ] 
R . B . JAIN, Under Secy . 


भारतीय कृषि अनुसंभान परिषद 


नई दिल्ली , 16 सितम्बर 1967 


एस० ० 3388 -.- स्थ ई वित्त समिति की नियमावली, 1940 के नियम 2 ( 4 ) का 
अनुसरण के ते हुए डा० के० रमैया , उपकुलपति , उड़ीसा कृषि एवं प्रौद्योगिक विश्वविद्यालय , 
भुवनेश पर तथ” भ रतीय कृषि अनुसंधान परिषद् की शासीनिकाय के सदस्य , को उसी निकाय द्वारा 
परिषद् क . रथाई वित्त समिति का गदस्य दिनांक 30 मई, 1967 से एक वर्ष की अवधि के लिए 
अथवा उस समय तक जबकि उन निकाय द्वारा इनका उसराधिकारी निर्वाचित कर लिया जाय , 
इन में जो भी याद में हंचित कर लिया गया है । 


[सं० 35 ( 1 )/ 37-सी०डी० एन० ( 1 ) ] 

प्रार० बी० जैन, अवर सचिव । 


DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS 

( P . and T . Board ) 
New Delhi, the 31st August 1967 


8 . 0 . 3389. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - rule ( 2 ) of rule 9 , clause 
( b ) hot sub-rule ( 2 ) of rule 12, and sub - rule ( 1 ) of rule 24 , read with rule 34 , 
of the Central Civil Services ( Classification , Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 , 
the President hereby makes the following further amendments in the Notification 
of the Government of India in the late Ministry of Communications (Posts and 
Telegraphs ) No. S . R. O . 620 , deted the 25th February , 1967, namely :- - 


In the Schedule to the said Notification, in Part II - General Central Service , 
Class III , under the heading " Office of Managers , Telegraphs / Telephones Work 
shops ", against the entry " Draftsman Grade I ; Building Overseer ; Welfare Superin 
tendent ; Assistant Supervisory Test Clerk; Inspector of Watch and Ward; Nurse%3B 


3466 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I , 1889 


[PART 11 


Electrician ; Head Test Clerk in column 1, below the existing entries " Manager , 
Workshops" , " All " and " General Manager , Posts and Telegraphs Workshops 
occurring respectively in columns 3 , 4 and 5, the following entries shall respectively 
be inserted , namely ; 


(i) to (lv ) 


Manager Workshops" . 


" Omcers of General Central - 
Service Class I, in Senior 
Time Scale . 


[ No . 7-7 / 67 -WK .) 
K . BHARATHAN , 
Asstt. Director General ( SG ) 


( P . & T . Board ) 

New Delhi, the 16th September 1967 
8 . 0 . 3390 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 21 of the Indian Post 
Omce Act, 1898 ( 6 of 1898 ) , the Central Government hereby makes the following 
rule further to amend the India Post Office Rules , 1933, namely : 

1. These rules may be called the Indian Post Once (Ninth Amendment) Rules, 
1967, 


2 . In rule 183 ( b ) of the Indian Post Omice Rules , 1933 , for the words " Madras , 
Mysore " the words “ Madras, Meerut, Mysore" shall be substituted . 

[No . 24 /3 /67 -CI.) 
DALJINDER SINGH , 
Director Postal Technical . 


CENTRAL BOARD OF DIRECT TAXES 

INCOME - TAX 

New Delhi, the 12th September 1967 
8 . O . 3391 . - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub - section ( 1 ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act , 1961 ( 43 of 1961 ) and all other powers enabling it in 
that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes , New Delhi, hereby makes the 
following amendments in the schedule appended to it . Notification No. 52 , dated 
7th July , 1967, namely : 

I. Against A - Range, Nagpur under column ( 2 ) the following entries shall be 
added : - - 

( 14 ) Incometax Officer, Assessment- I, Nagpur, 
( 15 ) Incometax Offlcer , Assessment- II, Nagpur . 
( 16 ) Incometax Officer, Assessment - V , Nagpur . 
( 17 ) Incometax Officer, Administration , Nagpur. 
( 18 ) Incometax Officer, Collection , Nagpur. 
( 19 ) Incometax Officer , Central Circle- I, Nagpur. 
( 20 ) Incometax Officer, Central Circle - II, Nagpur, 

( 21 ) Incometax Officer , Central Circle - III, Nagpur. 

II. Against B -Range , Nagpur under column ( 2 ) the following entries shall be 
added : 

( 6 ) Incometax Omcer , Assessment- III , Nagpur. 
( 7 ) Incometax Officer, Assessment- IV , Nagpur, 
( 8 ) Incometax Oficer , Assessment- VI, Nagpur. 
( 9 ) Incometax Officer , Assessment- VII , Nagpur. 


SFC. $ ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3467 


111. Against Raipur Range, Raipur under column ( 2 ) the following entries 
shall be added : 

( 10 ) Incometax Omcer , Assessment - I, Raipur. 
( 11) Incometax Officer , Assessment- II, Raipur. 
( 12 ) Incometax Oflicer , Assessment-III, Raipur. 
(13 ) Incurnetax Officer, Assessment- IV , Raipur , 
( 14 ) Incomciax 0 . 7ccr, Adiunii . ration and Collection , Raipur. 

( 15 ) Incometax Officer , Jagdalpur. 
This Notification shall take , Tect from 12th September, 1967 . 

Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of the creation of new 
wards by abolishing the existing incometax circles and wards at Nagpur and 
Raipur in the Commissioner s charge and also on account of opening of a new 
Incometax Circle at Jagdalpur . 

( The above note does not form part of the notification , but is intended to be 
merely clarificatory ) . 

[No. 99 ( F . No . 50 / 20 /67-ITJ).] 


New Delhi, the 13th Sepiember 1967 


S . O . 3392 .- - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub -section (i ) of Section 
122 of the Income- tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1031) and o . all other powers enabling 
it in that behalf, the Central Board of Direct Taxes hereby makes the following 
amendments in the Schedule appended to Its Ntification No 61- Income- tax , dated 
the 21st June, 1966 , namely : 

In the said schedule against B Range , Madras under Column 2 , the following 
shall be substituted , namely : 
B Range , Madras 

1 . City Circle II ( All Sections ), Madras 
2 . Salaries Circle , Madras. 
3 . Salarles Circle I, Madras . 
4 . Salaries Clrrle II , Madras. 
5 . Sperial Survey Circle ( All Sertions ) , Madras 
6 , Special Investigation Circle A . Madras, 
7 . Special Investigation Circle B , Madras 
8 . Tax Recovery Circle , Madras . 
9 . Central Cirrles I, II , III , IV , V , VI, VII, VIII, IX 

anni X , Madras 
10 . City Circle VIT ( all Sections ), Madras. 

Explanatory Note 
The amendments have become necessary on account of creation of a new 
Central Circle X at Madras . 

( The above note does not form a part of the notification but is intended to 
be mercly clarificatory ) . 

(No. 100 (F . No. 50 / 138 /67- ITJ ).1 

P . G . GANDHI, Under Secy . 


ESTATE DUTY 

Nou Delhi, the 18th Septemher 1967 
S . O , 3393. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the second proviso to sub 
section ( 2 ) of section 4 of the Estate Duty Act , 1953 (34 of 1953 ) , the Central 
Board of Direct Taxes hereby directs that the Income- tax Officer aonninted as 
Additional Assistant Controller of Estate Duty and posted to the Estate Duty 
cum Incomc- tax Circle , Hyderabad shall perform his functions as an Assistant 


3468 THE GAZEITE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


(PART II 


- 


- - 


- 


Controller of Estate Duty to the exclusion of the Assistant Controller of Estate 
Duty , Estate Duty cum Income - tax Circle , Hyderabad , in respect of such estates . 
or classes of estates as may be assigned to him . 
2 . This notification shall come into force on the 25th day of September , 1967. 

(No. 17 – F . No . 21 / 94 /67 - E .D .] 

G . R . HEGDE, Secy. 


CENTRAL BOARD OF EXCISE AND CUSTOMS 

CUSTOMS 

New Delhi, the 23rd September 1967 
S . O . 3394 , In exercise of the powers conferred by section 9 of the Customs 
Act , 1962 ( 52 of 1962 ) , the Central Board of Excise and Customs hereby declares 
Jullunder in the State of Punjab to be a warehousing station . 

(No. 97 / 67 - Customs F . No. 3 / 44 / 87-Cus. VII . ] 

M , S , SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


- 


- 


- - 


- 


- 


CENTRAL EXCISE COLLECTORATE 

MANL PACTURED PRODUCTS 

Baroda , the 21 August 1967 
S . O . 3395. - In exercise of the powers conferred on me under Rules of the Central Fxcisc Ruler 
1944, I empower the officers of Central Excise Cllectorate , Baroda, not below thc rank specified 
in column No. 4 of the table , to exercise , within their jurisdiction , the power of the " Collecror " 
uzder Rules mentioned in column No. 3 in the said table. 


TABLE 


Nature of powers conferred on Collectors 


Rule 
No. 


No. 


Collectors powers 
delegated to all 
officers not below 
the rank of Superin 
tendent. 


I 


Superintendents . 


2 


Do. 


3 


Assistant Collector. 


To accept first A . S . P , application for full period for 96ZA (1 ) 

which special procedure can be availed of . 
To accept first A . S . P . application for a period less than 96ZA (2 ) 

the prescribed period . 
To determine the period for which a manufacturer muy 96ZA (3 ) 
be precluded from working under the special proce 
dure for failure to give proper notice for not avail 
ing of such procedure during the period for which 
permission has been granted to him . 
(a ) To accept renewal application in form A . S . P . 96ZA (4) 
(6 ) To condone delay in submission of A . S . P . appli- do . 

cation for renewal 


Superiotendent, 
O Superintendent 
for condoning 
delays not excced 

ing 15 days . 
( 11 ) Assistant Col. 

lector for condon 
ing delays ex 
ceeding 15 days. 


im 


Suc. 8( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 2469 


(2 ) 


5 


To condonc delay in submission forpletion for re - 921 ( 2 ) 

in val in furm A . R 6 and to cnidi sette in nak 
ing monthl: deposits . 


(1) Superintendent for 

for condozing 
delay s not exceed 

ing 5 days. 
( 0 ) Assistant Col 

lector if the 
delay exceeds 
the limits under 
11) ahora, 


0 


Twinpose following penalties de mii - eilation etc . 


( ) to demand duty at full rare 
112 ) to confiscate goods 
(11 ) to introse penalty not chceling R 


96ZH ) 
16ZH (11 ) 
967 ) 


1.000 / 


Adjudicating Offi 
cers in acordance 
with their inuts 
of powers . 


(No. 6 /07 -) 


A . R . SHANMUGIM , Collector. 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CENTRAL EXCISE 


CENTRAL EXCIAL 


Bangulore, the 23rd August 1967 


S . O . 3196 . - 11. cxcrcise of the powers vested in mc under Rule şof the Central Excise Rules c , 
1944 . I hcreo enpower the Central Excise Othicers of the Mysore Central Excise Collectorate 
specified in Col. 1 ( f the table below to cxerc t within their le pective jurisdiction the powers 
of Collector under tlic rule enunierucal in Col. Und subiect to the analitions and limitation set 
out in Col. 3 of the said table . 


Rank of Officer 


C . Ex. 
Rule 


Nature vithe powers under thic 

rule delegated 


Extent of 
limitations 


1. Superintendent. 


, 


96ZARI 


? . 


Do. 


96 / A2) 


3 . Asstt. Collectir, 


96ZA13 ) 


To acccpt Fust A . S . P , application 

for full period for which 
special procedure can be availed 
of 
[ o accept first A . S . P , applica 
tion for a perind less than 

the prescribed period . 
To determine the period for 

which a manufacturer may be 
precludert from working under 
the spcual procedure for failure 
to give proper notice for not avail 
ing of -uch procedure during 
the period fur which permis 
sion has been granted to him , 
1d ) Todcept renewal applica 

Lions in fm A . S . P . 
( b ) To condone delay in sub - For nondo ning elays 

mission of A . S . P . appli - not cxxceedignis days 
cattitor renewal. 


4 . Superintendení, 


. 


967 .11 


Do. 


- - -- - ------ - - --- ---- 


- - -- 


3470 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVIVI 1, 1889 


[Parr II - 


1 


Asstt. Collector. 


. 


96ZA (4 ) 


5 . Superintendent. 


96ZD ( 2 ) 


(6 ) To con long delay in sub Tor condoning de 

mission of A . S . P . appli lars exceeding 15 
cation for renewal. 

c ay . 
TO condonc de vinin submission Vi Tor condoning de 

of applic tion moval in lays not exceeding 
form A . K 61 condone 5 days. 
delays in making . nthly de- (11 ) For ccndoning de 
posits . 

lays if the delay 
exceeds the limits 
under item (1) 
above 


Asstt. Collector. 


Do. 


6 . Adjudicating officers in 

accordance with their 
limits of powers . 


96ZF 1) 
96ZE ( 11 ) 
96ZF (1v ) 


To 72 cue follow .ng penalties 

for nit declaration etc. 
To denand duty at full rate . 
T . confiscate goods . 
Tui noore pesial not exceedir 
p2010 


(issued from file C . Ni . I . 131, 07 . 2 .) 


C . T 


I TILAL ), Collector, 


OFFICE OF THE COLLECTOR OF CUSTOMS & CENTRAL EXCISE 


Shillong, the 31st Avgust 1967 


S . O . 3397.- In exercise of the powers conferred upon me under Rule 5 of the 
C . E . Rules , 1944 and in partial modification of this Collectorate Notification 
No. 3 / CE / 67 dated 28th April, 1967, I hereby empower the Central Excise 
Officers specified in column 2 of the sub - joined table to exercise within their 
jurisdiction the powers of the " Collector" under the Central Excise Rules enume 
rated in column 1 thereof subject to the limitations set out in column 3 of the 
said table , 


TABLE 


C . E . Rules 


Rank of Officer Junior (upgraded ) 


Limitations 


Rule 47( 4 ) 


Superintendent , C . E . and Senior Superinten - To permit themanufacturer not to 

dent where there is o junior Superinten - make entries where there are no 
dent in - charge of any particular Range or transactions. 
Factory . 


Rule 53 


Ꭰo. 


Do. 


[No. 6 /CE /67. ] 


A . K . BANDYOPADHYAY , Collector. 


SEC , 3( 1)] 


THE GVETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967/ ASVINA 1. 1889 3471 


MINISTRY OF FINANCE 

(Department of Economic Affairs ) 
REPORT OF THE CENTRAL POARD OF DIRECTORS OF TILE 

RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
FOR THE YER JULY 1, 1966 — JUNE 30 , 1967 

Nou Dcihi, the 4th September 1967 
S . O , 3398 . - In uccordance W T section 53 ( ? ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act , 
19 .14 , the Central Benel of Dirtators hus " bmitted to the Government of India 
the following report on ille working and counts of the Bank tor the ychli ended 
June 30 , 1967 

I. OVERAIL TRENDS IN THE ECONOMY 
The ycar July 1966 - June 1967 witnessed a continuation of serious difficulties 
in resatot the internal as well as the external balance of the econoiny The 
Solstantial clcvalition of the Indian rupee , in June 1966 necessitated far - reaching 
undjustments in relative prices, costs and the pattern of investment. However, 
these adjustments , dificult as they always are , proved even more so because of 
the severe drought following the previous years , creating new problems internally 
as well as in the country s cxternal trade and payments. Domestic availabilities, 
both in the agricultural and in the industrial sectors declined sharply because 
of the acverse agricultural season . National income in real terms is slimated 
to have shown a rise Ol bout 3 per rent in 1966 -67* as against a decline of 
-3. 7 per cent in 1965 - 00 ; it was lower b , 0) 0 per cent than in 1964- 6 .5 Prices 
continued to rise and the pressure for upward adjustments in incoines gathered 
further strength The shortages in the supplies of raw materials , the sharp risc 
in import costs and the slow -downi in investment both in the public and private 
sectors resulted in the lutter part ut flir year under review in an erneuence of 
recessionary conditions in several hasle and capital goods industries. The rate of 
growth of industrial production at 2 . 8 per cent in 1966 -67 (April -March ) was 
lower than in 1905 -66 (54 per cent) . 

2 . As against the adverse trend in production , liquidity in the erono :ny, which 
had already been high in the previous years , expanded further during the year, 
although at a slower pace than in 1 465 06 The major factor contributing to the 
fxpansion of liquidity was the large budgetary deficits of the Central and State 
Governments financed by recourse to the banking system Bank credit to the 
private sector also showed a larger expansion than in the preceding year In 
111e result, the gap between aggregate derand and supply widened anl this was 
reflecterl in a substantial rise in prices. The index of wholesale prices went up 
boy about 10 per cent during the year . This , following the rise of 18 per cent 
recorded in 1965- 66 , caused serious hardship to the vulnerable sertions of the 
community . Sorne nine- tenths of the rise was on lccount of food uiticles This 
order of increase in pricey together with its impact on the cost of living ir.cer 
necessitater some adjustments in mages and salaries , the effect of which could not 
but be to accentuate the builgetary ilifficulties of the Central and State Governments 
and to add to Inflationary pressures, 

3 . On the side of external receipts and payments , the drought aftected the 
mountry s capacity to export agriculture -based products and at the same time 
necessitated larger imports of food and raw materials The huren of serviring 
the accurnulated foreign debt also added to the payments difficulties Fureign 
aid receipts during the year were also lower than in 1965 - 66 . As a result , there 
was severe pressure on the foreign exchange reserves , which declined by $ 159 
million as against an increase of $ 255 million during 1965 -66 . Net of a repurchase 
cquivalent to $ 57: 5 million from the International Monetary Fund in 1966 -67 
and a net purchase of $ 162 :5 million from that source in 1965 - 66 , the reserves 
showed a fall equivalent to $ 102 million in 1966 -67 as compared with a lise of 
$ 93 million in the previous year. 

4 . A number of measures were taken during the year to moderate price rises 
and to create a stable and competitive environment for increasing production , 
promoting exports and speeding up import substitution . Credit policy W99 Adlusteri 
in the direction of greater flexibility but within an overall frame- work of restraint. 
Special measures were taken to moderate the immediate impact of devaluation 
on prices, particularly the prices of essential commodities Quantitative routre 
tions on imports were relaxell to meet the requirements of priority 11011ctrina 
To provide an incentive for increasel output and efficiency , prodi: rtion and price 


* Fiscal year . 


3472 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 


[Parr II 


controls were removed in respect of certain industrial Products and licension 
requirements were relaxed in respect of several Industries Controlled distribu 
tion of items ot mass consumption was extended and supplies were augmented 
through imports and procurement. Iligher support prices were announced for 
major agricultural coinmodities and price Increases were perimitted in respect 
of certain Industrial products whose cost had risen . 
Output, Prices and Price Policy 

5 The increase in output in both agriculture and Industry was only of the 
order of u per rent n . 1966 -67. In agriculture, the Increase was not even enough 
tr) make up for the decline of as much as 17 per cent in the previous year 
The output of tuodigrains estimated at 76 million tonnes, though higher by 4 million 
toci: 2 - than the output in 1965 - 66 , was far below the level of 89 million tonnes 
In 1964 -65 . Amongst ncn - food crops, only raw jute and mesta and groundnut 
shower some reasure of improvement In raw cotton the output was only 
slightly higher than in the previous year whil , sugarcane output declined . Adverse 
weather condltions, which persisted over large parts of the country , were responsible 
for the inadequate performance of agriculture In some States like Rajasthan , 
Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh the rains failed for the second year in succession 
There was extensive damage to the kharif crops in Bihar and Eastern and Central 
U . P . Lack of rains in the winter tnonths and unseasonal rains later affecter 
the rabi crops also to some extent, 

☆ The shortfalls in agricultural output resulted in shortages of raw materials , 
2 :1d , to the extent they could not he made good by imports , tended to restrict 
production Industries which use raw materials of agricultural origin like cotton 
textiles , jute manufactures, sugar , tea and Vanaspati registered declines ranging 
from i per cent to 19 per cent during the financial year. A section of capital 
goods Industries also recorded lower Production owing to some cuts in public 
sector investment outlayg. This group comprised railway wagon building , pic 
iron castings and heavy structurals . The fall in the production of these industries 
in turn adversely affected the demand for intermediate products . There werc . 
however , a number of industries which were able to record higher average rates 
of growth . Important amongst these are aluminium manufactures , petroleum 
products , radio receivers, fertilisers, electric cables and wires, cotton yarn , auto 
mobiles, batteries and soap ; of these the last six had in fact, recorded declines 
in output last year. In the result , for the financial year 1966 -67 , industria pro 
Cuction showed a growth rate of 28 per cent as compared with 5 . 4 cent in 1965 - fit 
and 5 - 6 per cent in 1964 -65 . 

7 . In rerent months , severnl industries in the metallurgical and engineering 
group have encounterer sizeable falls in demand , and this has resulted in cut 
backy in prorluction and labour lay -off . In some industries , it would appear , 
capacity had grown faster than was warranted by the growth of demand in related 
Sectory A slowing down of the inflarinnary process manifests itself ricomally 
in recessionary conditlong which can , to an extent, be regarded as a corrective 
to the " aver -hrating of the economy ear ler . Even so , it is necessary to guard 
against an HT - sive swing up the cicle in the downward direction . Mcreover 
it has to be cut in mind that thn situation in India has not been one merely of 
excess Heinand , major aggi21 atil factor has been the low availabilities an 
the supply sice because of exceptionally adverse weather conditions. It is, there 
Pore , particulis y important to ensur , that the recessionary trends do not spread 
0 .11 of Jeepen too fa ! SI) as to cudanter the longer -term prospects of livestment 
and growth . 

8 . Prices continued to rise at a high rate . During July 1960 - June 1967, they 
nprorded an increase of 15 . 8 per cent as compared with an increase of 18 . 3 per 
ont recorded in 1965 -RO . Almost nine- tenths of the rise in the general index in 
466 -67 was accounted for by the food articles group , which incrcasecl hy 27 . 9 
per cent . Industrial raw materials and manufactures , on the other hand , showed 
much smaller price increases . viz . 1 . 6 per cent and 3 . 0 per cent, respectively , 
In 1965 -66 the largest rise had been recorded by prices of industrial raw materials 
( 28 - 8 per cent) fol owed by food articles ( 19 - 5 per cent) and manufactures (11. 7 
per cent ) . The increase in the general price level had its impact on the All- India 
consumer price index for working class ( base : 1949 = 100 ) which moved up by 
12. 2 per cent between July 1986 and June 1967. In 1965- 66, the index rose by 
13- 5 per cent. 

9 . All important items of food articles registered increases, the increase being 
more marked in rice ( 26 per cent) , wheat (47 per cent ) , pulses (61 per cent ) 
& ad gur ( 163 per cent) . Among industrial raw materials , raw cotton recorded 
a rise of 17 per cent and oil-seeds of 9 per cent; prices of raw jute , on the other 


Src , 3( ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASYINA 1, 1889 3473 


- 


- 


land, declined by 29 per cent, as against a rise of 45 per cent in 1965 - 66. Items 
of manutactures , which showed a marked rise in their prices were cotton and 
woollen textile (6 per cent), ollcakes ( 15 per cent), chemicals ( 9 per cent) and 
eather ( 20 per cent) . Under the impact of declining raw Jute prices, prices of 
jute manufactures fell sharply by 24 per cent in contrast to a rise of 22 per cent 
but 19b tit . 

10 Remedial action to alleviate the hardships to the consumers comprised 
indagai imports , improvement of distribution facilities , increased reliance on the 
Price niechanism in suitable cases and a liberalisation of physical controls with 
✓ view lo stimu ating production Thus, imports of ioodgrains were stepped up 
Porn 7 . 5 million tonnes in 1965 - to a record level of 10 . 4 million tonnes during 
1906 During 1967, an import programme of about 10 million tonnes is envisaged . 
Or this , 4 : 4 million tonnes were imported upto July 10 , 1967 as compared with 
5 * 5 million tonnes imported in the corresponding period of 1966 . Similarly , ar 
rangements were made to import raw cotton , juts and vegetable oils . Procure 
ment operations were intensified and there was a substantial expansion of the 
areas of controlled distribution . The coverage of statutory and informal 
rationing way extended . The number of fair price and ration shops was increased . 
Also , some States fixed maximum wholesale and retail prices for rice and wheat. 
In regard to cotton , mills were ordered not to keep more than two months 
stocks and to observe an extra holiday every weck between December and April 
and later once every fortnight. Requisitioning of cotton was also resorted to . 
At the same time, arrangements were made for larger imports of raw cotton . 
Measures to ensure that other essential articles were made available to consumers 
at reasonable prices considered of informal arrangements with manufacturers of 
products like soap , matches , baby food , bicycle tyres and tubes to enable regular 
flow of supplies at reasonable prices. 

11. Tu stimulate production , guaranteed minimum support prices were reviseri 
upwards for wheat and gram for the 1966 -67 season and enhanred minimum 
support prices for paddy ( standard variety ) and coarse cereals have been an 
nounced for the 1967- 68 Kharif season . The minimum prices for sugarcane and 
for raw jule ( Assam bottoms) for 1966 -67 were increased 13 hi c reiling and floor 
prices for raw cotton were revised upwards. In the industrial sector , price 
Increases were granted to several industries which included cctton textiles, coal, 
sugar, iron and steel and automobiles and trucks. To facilitate larger output of 
essential itern . the import policy for components , raw materials and spare parts 
was Ilborulised in respect of 59 priority industries, 

12. "1 he policy of exempting Industries from the licensing provisions at the 
Industrie (Development and Regulation ) Act, 1951, initiated in May 1966, was 
extended to 31 additional industries bringing the total of industries so far exempted 
to 42 . Licensing requirements were also done away with in respect of a l industrial 
uriin li. terr ing to diversify production , manufacture new itenis and step up output 
uplo 20 ror cent beyond licensed capacity provided no additional plant or machinery 
in T.Sc , mot and no additional foreign exrhange is needed . Spinning mills having 
istrirLirinto 25 1011 , new textile prorng iny 1its and expansici of existing 
units in uso been exemptert trorr licensing requireinents . The policy of relaxtig 
Col trols,S tively wins arrier! Yurtier during the year for the 1967 -68 Agri 
cultural scason , statutory contri! ( 0 cotton prices is to be removel, while in the 
place of tatutory for prices, linimun suoport prices which are about 5 to 10 
per rent ahora the food prices tur the 1966 -67 season have been annouiller In 
the case o SI ! ? r , the minimum price of sugarranc has been raised from Rs. 2 12 
tar a 7 iam maunil for a provary of 94 per cert or less and the basic excise 
hutv on tistorv suur his teen reduced Sugar is Uropo eil to be partially 
devontrol :742 + 21] an Incentive for higher production is to be given by way of 
orbite : t the rite of 50 per cent of basic excise duty for production in press 
(tu Oli per rent of that in the preceding scason . The price ard distribution crrtrols 
Con all ratrries ist steel were reinoved , etentive May 1 , 1967 while he scheme ot 
decontrol of rement Introduced in January 1966 was extended for another year . 
11 . perioil for which special terms are ofered to foreign private investor fri 
setting up fortiliser units was also extended upto end - 1967. 
Budgetary Operations 

1 ? The resources position of the Central and State Governments during the 
financial year 1966 -67 was affected adversely by the deterioration in the economic 
sitiation Net revenue receipts of the Urion Government were a little lower than 
originally expected . There was a decline in small savings collections and the 
market borrowing programme was also smaller . Outlays, on the other hand , rose 
substantially , despite the economy infasures undertaken , owing to increase in 
assistance to States for scarcity rellet , rise in food and fertiliser subsidles as 
a result cl higher rupee costs of imports following devaluation and larger imports 


* In Juiy 1967, price and distribution controls on all categories of coal, ( except 
distribution contro s on cooking coal required by metallurgical consumers , e . g ., 
steel plants ) have been removed . 


3474 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEP 1 EMBER 23, 1907 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PARI Il 


of these items, the increase in dearness allowance following higher prices , increased 
cuțlays on agricultural schemes in order to step up food production and additional 
liabilities arising from unauthorised overdralts by the States . The net result 
Was that as against an overall dettcit of Rs 32 crores anticipated in the Centre s 
burget , revised estimates show a cleficit ct as niuch as Rs. 315 crores. The 
l esources position of the States was also subject to sinilar strains Though in 
Their budgets for 1966 -67, the States had provided for smaller vutlays , they had 
to incur sizable additional expenditures on account of increases in dearness 
allowance following the rise in the cost of living and relief measures which 
became necessary in the wake of the drought and the difficult lood situation . 
At the same time, they experienced shortfalls in revenue , particularly land rvenue . 
During the year, some of the Statęs continued to run unauthorised overdrafts 
with the Reserve Bank , and the Centre had to make additional unids available 
tor clearing them . The total amount of such assistance granted by the Central 
Government to the States during the financial year ending March 1967 arncunted 
to Rs. 108 crores . Towards the end of 1966 the Reserve Bank informed the State : , 
with the approval of the Central Government, that 131 1 ? linalil ,! 31 ( 1 ; 
draft persisted for a period of one week or more , the Bank would in future , 
issue a notice to the State Government calling upon it to take steps to climinate 
the overdraft within a period of thrce weeks, failing which it would be open 
to the Bank to stop payments on account of the State . Simultaneously , the i mits 
for the grant of clcan and securect ways and means adyances by the Resirve Bank 
were suitably increased to provide for greater assistance to the State Government : 
for temporary periods The new limits as well as the procedure for dealing 
with unauthorised overdrafts beyond these limits were brought into iurce with 
clfect from March 1, 1967. 

14 . Recognising the inflationary impact of the budgetary deficits on the economy 
and the psychology of inflation nourished by the continuance of such deficits, the 
budget of the Union Government for 1967–68 reiterates the nccd for iscal discipline 
and seeks to restrict outlays to the resources that could be mobilised in a non 
inflationary manner . The estimated aggregate expenditure of the Centre during 
1967-68 at Rs 4993 crares is lower hy about Rs. 336 crores than the revised 
cstimates for 1966 - 67 . The new tax proposals as originally presented were 
designed to provide the Central Government, after allowing for States share . 
Rs. 81 crores in a full year and about Rs. 68 crores in the current year, which 
together with additional revenue expected in the current year from revision of 
postal rates would have been adequate to offset the deficit of Rs. 68 crores . The 
yield from the new tax measures will, however , be smaller by Rs. 15. 4 ciorcs 
in a full year and by Rs. 11. 5 crores in the current year as a result of the con 
cession subsequently announced . 


15 . In the case of State Governments , the final budgets for 1967 - in show a 
considerable widening of their deficits owing mainly to a substantial rise in 
expenuilure . The aggregate deficit before new taxation works out to Rs. 130 
Crores. So far , eleven States have proposed additional taxation measures estiriated 
to yield Rs. 28 crores which would only partly cover their deficit totalling Rs. 55 
crores. Proposals for additional taxation are under consideration by some of 
the remaining States also . On the other hand , a number of States have announced 
concessions in land revenue and similar steps are being contemplated by some 
others . Already during the first quarter of the current Anancial yeur , assistance 
had to be given by the Centre to some States amounting to Rs 32 -71 crores to 
clear their overdrafts by end - June 1967. There is lately soine evidente that the 
States have taken action to avoid recourse to unauthorised borrowing from the 
Reserve Bank . The situation in some States is , however, one of inadequate re 
sources relatively to the projected expenditures . There is , therefore , urgent need 
for further effort on their part to mobilise additional resources and to exercise the 
utmost economy in expenditure so as to avoid unauthorised recourse to the 
Reserve Bank 


16 . The tax proposals of the Union Government for 1967 -68 which are essentially 
made to avoid deficit, also attempt to provide relief in deserving cases , to promote 
savings and investment and to stimulate exports . In respect of personal incomes, 
a new allowance for maintenance of dependent parents or grandparents has been 
provided, subject to certain conditions. Certain provisions of the Annuity Depcsit 
Scheme have also been liberallsed . To encourage contractual and other small 
savings, the limit of contribution to the various tax - free media of savings has 
beet1 raised . With a view to encouraging Investments , the ceiling limit of unearned 
income for purposes of surcharge has been raised while dividend incomes of Rs. 500 
and below are allowed as a deduction from taxable income. As regards corporate 
taxation , undertakings whosc profitability is usually low in the Inſtial years ure 


SIC . 9 (ii)] 


THI GVEITE OF INDI ) . SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967/ ASVINI I, 1899 3475 


allowed to Curry Iriard the unabsorbed benefits of tax -holiday tor eight years 
1r01u 11 lummencement of business. To provide incentives íor the growth and 
hevuudenu d l -167 meriiull - scale inlustries , the income limit lor con esional 
rule oli ta has bern roubled . The development rebate at the priority rate , as 
against tre Exist12 general rate , 15 now allowed , with a view to promoting 
cientia facerra in the country on the other hand , excise duties have been 
TRISCH to rertium domantic consumption and to cugincnt exports , to mop up 
high profits and to allow some increase in prices in socially desirable directions. 
With a view to correcting the aclye-i se trends in exports duties were reduced in 
Itspect o lite 11 .210 luctures . te 17dnganese ure and iron ore. 

17 To wbull alion of resources through 11101ket borrowings and small savings 
in 1 :167 -67 was somewhat smialler than unticipatent Borrowings from the market 
duy tlie Union Government were 101 e total gross um cf Rs 275 crores as against 
Ils 280 ( rores, fullvisaged in the budget estimate l or 1966 -67. Two cash - cuni 
Convers1011 Tennis, vid . a 5 -year 4 per cent Loan 1971 ( Re - issue ) and a 25 - year 
h ? pri tnt Loan 1991 were floated in July 1967 . The State Governinents flouted 
loans in September 1966 for an aggregate sum of Rs ?),1. 50 ( ure , at ylelds ranging 
from 51,"? por cent to 5 733 per cent The Subscriptions to these lcans amounted to 
Fis : 3 . 4 crores of which Rs. 47 . 5 crores were retained . The net market borrowings 
lv the Lintre and the States worked out to Rs 1767 crores and were smaller than in 
1965- 56 ( Rs 10 . 8 crores ) . Consequently , the çilt- edged prices by and large held 
their levels. In contract to a declinc uf 1 : 5 per cent in 1965 - 66 , the all - India index of 
Guverndent and senil-government securities rose fractionally (0). 7 per cent) over the 
yeur. During the year , Reserve Bank s open market operations resulted in larger 
net sales of Rs , 53 crores ( excluding purchascs from the State Bank of India on 
account of P . L . 480 and P . L , 665 funds ) than in 1965 -66 ( Rs, 42 . 3 crores ) . 


18 . There was a sizable reclinc in met collections of small savings which 
aggregated Rs. 126 . 8 crores in the financial year 1966 - 67 compared with Rs. 151 
Crores in 1965 66 Almost the whole oť the decline was in respect of post -office 
savings bank deposit “ . This was partly the result of lower collections by way 
of motor - scooter deposits and partly due to sizable withdrawals . 


19 The difficult econonnic situation hall its impact on the investment programme 
In the public sertor under the Fourth Five - Year Plan The proposed Plan outlay 
for 1967 -68- - the second vear of the Fourth Plan , at Rs. 2 ,246 crores is only 
marginally higher, in Ananicial terms, than that in the first year (Rs. 2 ,221 crores ) . 
The out ays by the Centre , Union Territories and the States are estimated at 
Rs. 1 ,172 crores , Rs 64 crores and Rs. 1,010 crores , respectively . The corres 
ponding tigures for 1966 -67 were R $ 1 , 148 crores , Rs. 04 ( rores and Rs. 1, 009 
( rores, respectively . The resources for these outlays reckoned at Rs. 2 , 192 crores 
fal: short by Rs 544 crores ; the shortfall is entirely in the States . The total Plan 
outlay uuring the first two years of the Plan would thus amcunt io Rs. 4 , 467 
crores , as Akvinst the total of Rs 16 000 crores envisaged for the period of the 
Fourth Plan 
The Corporate Sector 

30 The difficulties which the private corporate sector has been experiencing 
for the past few years in raising adequate resources from the open market . 
particularly risk capital, increased during the year under review . The persistent 
rise in prices and the diversion of available savings into appreciating assets like 
real estate , precious metals , etc . reduced the flow of fresh funds to the new issue 
market . At the same time, there was an increase in capital costs of projects 
following devaluation of the rupec. Consequently , the new issue activity and the 
activity on the stock narket were at very low levels and the corporate sector 
had to rely heavily on the financial institutions for loan assistance and under 
writing support. Reflecting these trends, the Reserve Bank s index of variable 
rllvidend industrial scrurities ( base : 1961-62 = 100 ) declined from 81 at the end of 
June 1960 to 771 by mid September and after moving up to 84 . 4 oy about mid 
February 1967, ecilned again to 777 at the end of June 1967 Over the year , 
there was a net decline of 4 . 1 per cent In 1965 - 66 , the index showed no net 
change. 

21. A comparative assessment of the trend in consents for capital issues for 
the full year under review relative to the previous year is not possible since with 
the abolition of capital issues control for certain categories , of companies in 
November 1966 , data relating to consents , which indicate investment intentions. 
are not complete . Comparing the position for the calendar year 1966 with that 
for 1965 , consents for capital issues . Particularly equity issues in 1966 , were 
considerably lower than in 1965 Consents for issue of shares (other than bonus 


3476 THE GAZETUE OF INDIA . SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II-- 


and miscellaneous issues ) and debentures amounted to Rs. 66 crores in 1866 
compared with Rs 86 crores in 1965. Consents for bonus issues , in the vither 
hand , amounted to Rs. 147 crores in 1966 , compared with Rs. 5 crores in 14615 - - 
the phenomenal rise in these issues in 1966 resulting from the abolition oť the 
bonus issues tax announced in the budget for 1966 -67. Security -wisc, consent 
for cquity issues declined from Rs . 5 . crores in 1965 to Rs. 42 crores in 1966 arri 
those for debentures and preference shares declined from Rs. 21 Crores and 
Rs . 12 cures , respectively , in 1915 to Rs. 18 crores and Rs. 6 crores, in 1966 . 

22 . Despite the relaxation in the licensing control under the Industries Act 
and i substantial liberalisation oi the contra over capital issues , the rüpital 
market throughout the year remained apathetic . Almost all new issues had to 
rely heavily on Institutional support in the shape of contributions to securities 
issued . 

23 . The operations of term -lending Institutions wcre at a lower level in 1960 -67 
than in the preceding year. This was partly the result or a reasses _ ent cf 
project costs following devaluation and the consequent increase in the cost of 
imports of capital goods, raw materia s , spares and components, which delayed 
the consideration of applications. Besides , the continuing underwriting support 
and the consequent locking up oi ſunds limited the scope for consideration of 
further applications. Aggregate financial assistance @ sanctioned by them by 
way of louns, underwriting and direct subscription to shares and debeures was 
substantially lower at Rs 127 crores in 1966 -67 (April-March ) as against Rs 164 
crores in 1965-66 ( April-March ) . Disbursements were, however, higher at Rs. 124 
crores as against Rs. 107 crores in the previous year. Loans sanctioned by the 
IDBI were marginally lower at Rs. 55 crores in 1966 - 67 as against Rs, 56 crores 
in 1965 -66 , but disbursements rose from Rs. 33 crores to Rs. 43 crores. The IDBI 
scheme of rediscounting of bills was liberalised during the year with a view to 
providing assistance to a larger number of industrial concerns. Besides these 
terms- lerding institutions, the Unit Trust of India and the Life Insurance Corpo 
ration of India continued to provide substantial funds to the private corporai : 
sector through their underwriting and investment operations. The increase in 
investments by the Unit Trust of India amounted to nearly Rs. fi crores in 1966 -67 
as ( cmpared with Rs 1 crore in 1965-66 . This was made possible by the co 
siderable improvement in the sales of units by the Trust. The gross sa sus and 
units by the Unit Trust of India during 1466 -67 amounted to Rs. 9 crores as 
comparedi with Rs. 2 crores in 1965 -66 . The Agures l or net sales , that is , gross 
Suls less repurchases , for the two years were Rs. 7 crores and Rs. 1 crore , 
respectively . The investments in sharos and debentures by the Life In urance 
Corporation increased from Rs. 159 crores in March 1985 to Rs 183 crores ir , 
March 1966 . "The small -scale industrial sector continued to receive substantial 
assistance through the Government of India s Credit Guarantee Scheme, which 
was libera ised during the year and through the various schemes ni asistance 
operated by the State Bank of indict and its subsidiaries. 
Money , Credit and Credit Policy 

14 Money supply continued to expanrl though at a considerably sluwer rate 
la ahsante terms noney supply increased by Rs. 307 ( tures luring the year 
under review as against Rs 145 crores in the preceding year The inrual ratia 
of expansion were 66 per cent and 10 .5 per cent, respectively . Bulla deposit 
money and currency with the public recorded mulier increases than ir 1967-60 , 
the increase in the former at Rs. 141. crores was less than in the previous yeztu 
Ly Ns 11 crorrs, while currenry with the public rose by R $ 166 crores or Rs. 4 . 
crores less than thin inornase in 1465 -01, Tota ! monetary resources (ie. niones 
Juup y with the pub ic pluis time deposits with banks ) increased by R . , Chipe. 
or by 8 . 2 per cent as against Rs. 068 crores or by 11 . 3 per cent last year , The 
rate of monetary expansion was in excess of the growth in real lituchat, and 
the slowing down of the rate of expansion of inonetary demand brought no relief 
to the price situation in fact, prices rose during the year only at a slightly lohn 
rate thar in 1965 -66 . 

23. Extension of bank ( redit to both the public and private sectors was 
responsible for the monetary expansion . The Government s net inilctroinesy to 
the banking system recorded , however , an appreciably smaller increase during 
the Year As Rs 187 crores the increase was less than one - thiril of the increase 
in the previous year (Rs. 634 crores ) ( a ) ( b ) . The Reserve Bank s credit to 
Government sector declined steeply from Rs. 410 crores to Rs. 192 crores and 
that by other banks showed a contraction of Rs. 11 crores in contrast to an 
expansion of Rs. 224 crores ( a ) in the preceding year. The increase in net bank 

@ The Institutions included are the IDBI, IFC , ICICI, SFCs and SIDCs. In 
order to make figures comparable , assistance in foreign currencies has been 
calculated at post - devaluation value in both the years . 

( a ) Adjusted for P . L , 480 and P .L . 665 deposits with banks in India other 
than the Reserve Bank of India , 
(6 ) Excluding the effect of revaluation of certain assets of the Reserve Bank 

the devaluation of the rupee, 


+ 


T4 


Sec, (1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967/ASVINA 1, 18893477 


redit to the private sector, on the other hand, was considerably higher at Rs 151 
crores as against only R s . 16 crores ( a ) in the previous year. The increase in 
foreign exchange assets (net ) held by the Reserve Bank of Rs. 22 crores 
( as against a fall of Rs. 64 crores (b ) last year ) also contributed to the 
expansion in money supply . The combined expansionary impact of these factors 
on money supply was partially ollset by the Increase of Rs. 71 crores ( Rs. 160 
crores last year ) in net non -monetary liabilities of the banking system . Money 
s ipply with the pubic showed a much larger contraction in the 1966 slack season 
( Rs. 120 crores ) than in the slack season of 1965 (Rs . 43 crores ) . This was 
followed by a smaller expansion of Rs. 459 crores during the 1966 -67 busy season 
char, ir the busy scason of 1963- 66 (Rs. 482 crorcs ) 

26 Faster rate of credit expansion accompanied by a slower pace of deposit 
growth was the main feature of the credit situation during the year. Consequeptly , 
the i quidity position of banks was under some pressure as was reflected in the 
credit - deposit ratio which moved up, over the year, from 72 .9 per cent to 74 .9 
per cent Credit expansion amu nting to Rs 332 cores (or 14 . 4 per cent ) during 
the year was larger than in 1965 - 66 ( RS, 226 crores or 10 . 9 per cent) . Scheduled 
commercial banks deposits , on the other hand , rose by Rs. 358 crores ( or 11 . 4 
per cert) compared with Rs. 462 crores @ or 17 . 1 per cent in 1965 - 66. 

and For quite sometime now , the banking system has been under pressure to 
expand credit beyond its resources The working capital needs of industry have 
gone up because of the rising costs of raw materials and labour and the drying 
Tip of the capital market has aggravated the situation of credit shortage. In 
this background and in view at the same time of the pervasive character of 
indationary pressures in the economy, credit policy has sought to balance the 
claims of credit expansion with the overall availability of savings in the sconomy. 
The accent of monetary policy has necessarily had to be on restraining any argra 
vation of inflationary pressures by keeping to the minimum in cxtent and duration , 
Central Bank credit to cominercial banks. At the same time, in operating its policy 
the Reserve Bank has been mindful of the need to Anance genuine productive activity 
for ultimately it is the increase in production as much as the restraint in aggregate 
demard which would correct the inflationary situation . This has called for efforts 
at a better distribution of credit in line with set priorities. It is in this sense that 
the employment of selective credit controls has to be viewed . As they have perated 
in this country, these controls have tried to limit the expansion of bank credit 
against certain commodities which are either essential items of consumption or raw 
material for industry and which are in short supply and in which speculative 
activity has been in evidence. Increasingly , however the scope of selective controls 
is heing widened so as to operate in the more positive direction of enlarging the 
flow of credit to essential sectors through a system of preferential rediscounts. 

38 . Ir thr slack season of 1966 , the hanks were asked to strive for the return 
flow of credit extended in the 1965 - 66 busy season , the announcement of devalua 
tion necessitated a fresh review of the policy for the 1966 slack season because of 
the apprehensions of strain on banks liquidity . At the discussions with the banks 
and industry it was indicated by the Reserve Bank that the liquidity position of 
banks would improve rather than experience any pressure , because of larger 
deprisit ausretinn aur that in fact this strengthened the nerd for mopping up 
excess liquidity arising in the hankin ? systani. Further , the winn for credit 
was expected to show a sharp lurrease in the 1966 -67 111sy selon due to Jibera 
lisation of import licensing and higher rupee cost following devaluation . The 
banks wers , therefore , called unon to bring about a recurtion in credit in the 
1966 s ack season and also to invest the entire increase in the deposit resources 
during the slack season in Government securities so that they woull by dri a 
position to finance a large proportion of credit expansion in the following busy 
sea: or , from their own resources . At the same time it was indicatrd to the 
hanks that the Bank would supplement their resources at the Bank rate to mcet 
the demands of priority sectors in the busy season , provided the banks themselves 
utilised to the maximum their own resources to finance those sectors. Though 
the general tenor of policy was one of credit restraint in the slack season , to 
provide for the possibility of increase in bank advances for financing Government 
procurfluent and allied cperations the Bill Market Scheme was kept open for 
this special purpose beyond June 30 . Selective control continued to operate in 
the form of prescription of ceilings and / or minimum margins in respect of 
advances against commodities in short supply such as foodgralns, ollseeds , sugar, 
raw cotton and kapas, 

29 . Over the slack season of 1966 , bank credit contracted by Rs. 86 crores 
compared with Rs. 93 crores in the 1965 slack season . On the other hand , the 
growth in deposits at Rs. 265 crores was substantially higher than the increase . 

Adjusted for Rs. 21 crores transfer of P .L . 480 funts. 


3478 THE CAZETTE OF INDIA : SLPTFJIBFR 9, 1967 / ISVINI I, 1889 


[Pau 11 


( Rs 178 crores ) in the 1965 slack season . In line with the advice of the Reserve 
Bank , the banks increased their investments in Government securities by Rs 298 
crores helping thereby to raise the investment deposit ratio Sy B 9 perrentage 
puute to, 343 per cent over the season as against 3 . 2 percentage points over the 
1965 slack season . With this large rise in investments, the combined nel liquldity 
rati ) o Scheduled commercial banks improved by end -October 1 ju lu 93 per 
cent us against 36 . 1 per cent at the end of the 1965 slack season . 

30 . Notwithstanding this, it was felt that banks on their own night at be 
in a position to meet the requirements arising from tipectations UI agricultural 
recovery and larger quantum of imports following import liberalisa !!011 In lur 
mulacing credit policy for the busy season of 1966 -67 , therefore, the Bank I. nol nced 
an enhancement of its accommodation at Bank rate to the commercial banks 
to Anunce the seasonal expansion . Banks were given an additional refinance facility 
at Bank rate for an amount equivalent to 10 per cent oi their actual ret ligility 
ratios as at the end of the 1966 slack season . This facility was available to al 
banks, rrespective of the level of their net liquidity ratios , so that every bank 
would liave some volume ce Bank rate refinance even ii its met liguility ratio 
dipped below 30 per cent. In addition , any excess over October 28 , 1900 level of 
a bank s advances to State Governments and approyed agencies tor food procure 
ment and allied activities was also made eligible for refinance at the Bank rate . 
While there was thus an enlargement of refinance available at Bank rate in 
order to prevent any excessive credit expansion therc was provision for the Jevy 
of a Lenal rate of 10 per cent for borrowings in excess of the amounts that 
could be borrowed at Bank rate in terms of the new policy ; the Bank also 
retained the discretion of charging higher deterrent penalty rate il such exress 
borrowings were either continuous or large This penalty rate , however , was 
to be made applicable only to excess borrowings over what the banks were 
entitled to at the Bank rate. A corollary to the liberalisation of refinance fucilities 
was the step taken to cirert the additional credit flow into priority sectors of the 
economy. Accordingly , a directive was issued to larger Indian and all for pign 
cominercial banks that not less than 80 per cent of their seasonal credit expansion 
shouli be made to industry (which was defined fairly widely ) and against export / 
iniport ills . 

31. In order to impart some flexibility to the deposit rates without disturbing 
the besic policy in this respect, the minimum rates prescribed by it in February 
1965 on bank deposits for 3 and 6 months were rescinded , while rentinuing the 
minimum prescribed for deposits for one year and for savings bank deposits . 

32. The increase in credit during the 1966 -67 busy season at Rs. 425 crores 
was much larger than in the 1965 - 66 season (Rs. 310 crores ) . On the other hand . 
deposit growth at Rs. 168 ( rcres was less than in the 1966 -66 season (Rs . 235 
yrores after adjusting P . L . 480 transfers of Rs. 21 crores ) . The higher volume 
of credit was financed by banks mainly by drawing down their investments and 
by recourse to borrowings from the Reserve Bank . Liquidation of investments in 
Government securities amounted to Rs 198 crores (Rs. 27 crores in 1965 -66 ) . 
Banks borrowings from the Reserve Bank were also larger by Rs. 41 crores 
(Rs. 28 crores in 1965 -66 ) this busy season . At their peak , borrowings from the 
Reserve Bank in the 1966 -67 season touched Rs. 140 crores on March 31 , 1967 
compared with Rs. 107 crores on March 11 , 1966 . The liberalisation of credit 
is reflected in that though the peak borrowing was substantially higher , the highest 
point reached for the weighted average rate paid on borrowings was lower at 
6 ,6 per cent ( for the week ended March 17, 1967) compared with 7 . 5 per cent 
in the previous year ( for the week ended April 1, 1966 ) . The rising demand for 
funds was reflected in the progressive hardening of call money rates during the 
1966 - 67 busy season , particularly in the month of March . The highest rates were 
recorded at Bombay during the week ended March 31 ( 12 .0 per cent) and at 
Calcutta during the week ended March 24 ( 13 . 2 per cent) . 

33. Though the seasonal credit expansion was less than had originally been 
anticipated , in the light we the downward adjustment of production and import 
estimates, the pace of credit growth turned out to be more than was warranted 
by the supply situation . In particular , the sizeable expansion in clean advances 
by February 1967 emphasised the need to control the direction as well as the 
Walume of bank credit. Banks were, therefore, cautioned in March 1967 10 
regulate their credit expansion in accordance with the directive regarding credit 
distribution between Industry, import and export sectors , on the one hand , and 
other activities , on the other and to exercise control over clean advances and 
against commodities in short supply . However , on representations made to the 
Bank that many banks had frozen the limits granted to trade customers , with a 
view io complying with the directive of the Bank , they were advised to effect 


3 . 3 ( 1)] 


THE ( AZF ITI OI INDI1 . LPTFMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1989 3479 


-- - - - 


- 


- - 


- 


- - 


u I celtage reduction in sanction : d limits so as to avoid undue dislocation of 
activity . The Bank also sounded another cautionary note to mltigate the possibility 
of banks borrowing more than their Bank ratc entitlement. It was made clear 
that the penalty ratc u 10 per cent would be levied even on small and occasional 
excess borrowings from the Bank and further that while the penal rate of 10 
per cent would apply to small excess borrowings upto one week , for any continuous 
t xcess beyond a week , the penal rate would rise by 1 per cent per annum , in 
respect of the short -tall or every one point cr a fracticn thereof in a bank s net 
Illuirlily ratio helow 30 per cent. 

31. To reinforce general credit control mcasures , selective credit controls were 
also 1970ditted towards the close of the busy season . Advances to mills and trade 
against cotton and kapas were restricted beginning from April-May 1967 to 85 
per cent of the average level in each two -month period of the earlier year and 
only ruch stocks as were covered by permits for purchase /movement issued by 
the Textile Commissioner were eligible for such advances Exportable varieties 
of indigenous cotton were , however , exempted from these restrictions. In regard 
to advances against paddy and rice to parties other than official agencies , banks 
wolesher to inaintain in each two-month period beginning March , April 1967, 
an average aggregate level of credit which should not exceed 55 per cent in 
Andhra Pradesh , ull per cent in Maharashtra and 65 per cent in all other States 
taken togсther of the level of such credit maintained during the corresponding 
period of 1964 -65 (March 1964 — February 1965 ) . 

1. In anticipation of the continuance of demand for credit even beyond the 
conventional end of the busy season (owing mainly to larger requirements of 
triport finan ( 1 . 8 ) , the commercial banks were advised to meet the demanl fcr 
crelist and in order to enable their to overcome the diffimultic s they night en 
rounior 17 coin ! ! ) , ine facility of the additional Bank rate tranche was continued 
until June 30 , 1967 ir 111 ] the date the Bill Market Scheme itself was kept 
09717. Banki ore 22 ardessert tu utilisc their deposit acretion for 177€ eting 
( Atidl reci . Preds such as Import linanci , lor repment of borrowings 
from la Rescric Fank chi for building up their investment portfolio during the 
slack seanum ( 1 11107. At the same time, it was eriphasised that banks should 
keer ( or ytrit contro . their advances against concst .c commodities in short 
huppuy , as well a their unsecured advances . 

30 . In the lirst two minuths with cukunt slack $14-on , credit contraction 
amount to R 43 ( T«, C Js compared with Rs. 35 crore , in the corresponding 
perio , i ut 1360 , but the devrisit growth was smaller , being Rs. 16 prorcs cumpared 
with Rs . 120 ( rok , On procent indications, it is expecter that seasonal contraction 
in cruit Worl ke somewhat larger than in 1966 , hut at the same tiine the addition 
to dçposis may be mich lower in view , among otlier things, ot the Central Gov . 
ernalent decrollin to avoid deflcit financing in the current inancial year. The 
atteint in 1 , 77 latin : incl iinplem . nting credit policy ha , thus leon contually 
to lullen we w11 oť ( ro t expansion # inst the uverall availabi ity on 
Savines cilit 11 is in th s content that the terhniques of rigulutin : the Chrium 
and duration ot Re erie Bank credit to comnicrcial banks and ol secking a better 
distribution of bendi credit in line with the accepted prior t: illetve to be viewed 
Balance of Payments 

" 7 The pxternal riyniants situation during the year showed a sharp deterio 
ration . This was ricin mainly io ritmiculties rica crl by the poor p rtorinance in 
agriculture which reduceri cxport Svailabilities of important agriculture - based 
exporis anri i cessitated at the same time large imports cl Loudgrains and raw 
materiitis to make good the domestic shortages In addition , there were afficulties 
of a transitional nauic for a brief period after drvaluation in getting trade and 
Dimerit adjusted tu 1h me situatien AI 111 . therefroin . 

28 . The foreign txchange reserves were drawn down over the year 1966 -67 
by $ 159 million after inecting a rcpurchase ohlisation of $ 57. 5 million from 
the International Moneta y l uril. In the previous accounting year , the reserves 
had shown a rise of $ 255 million ; hut this included a net drawing of $ 200 
million from the I. M . F . and a payment of $ 37. 5 million to the I. M . F . in February 
19615 Tawaray the additional gold subscription . It those transactions with che 
IMF. are excluded , the draft on reserves during 1966 - 67 would amount to $ 102 
million in contrast with an addition to reserves of $ 93 million in 1965 - 66 . The 
adverse swing of $ 195 million in reserves ( excluding transactions with the 
I M . F . ) over the year was the iombined result of a significant drop in exports , 
largor outgo by way of interest and amortisation payments on foreign loans and 
smaller inflow of foreign aid . 

* The minimum margin of 50 per cent on such advances imposed on August 5, 
1965 was discontinued . 


3480 IHE GATETIE OF INDIA SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 TART 11 

S 
39 . The pause in aid authorisations following the outbreak of hostilities with 
Pakistan in September 1965 slackened the utilisation of aid ; the magnitude of 
aid utilised ( gross ) which had risen continuously quring the Third Plan from 
$ 711 million in 1961 - 62 (April -March ) to $ 1,621 million in 1965 - 66 caine 
down rather sharply to $ 1 ,474 nillion in 1966 -67 (April-March ) . At the same 
time, debt service charges ( interest and amortisation payments ) which had risen , 
following the increasing resort to external assistance from $ 191 million in 
1961 -62 to $ 316 million in 1965 - 66 , moved up further to $ 369 million in 1966 -67. 
In the result, the net inflow of aid which had shown a striking advance during 
the Third Plan from $ 520 million to $ 1, 305 million , fell by $ 200 million to 
$ 1, 105 million in the first year of the Fourth Plan . There was, however, o 
substantial increase in the authorisations of fresh aid during the year. The 
pledges of $ 900 million in the form of non - project assistance together with larger 
authorisations from non -Consortium countries resulted in a significant stcp - up 
in fresh authorisations of aid from $ 1 , 362 million in 1965 -66 to $ 2 ,082 million in 
1966 -67 . 


40 Ay regards details of foreign trade transactions, data are available from 
the customs record for the period June 1966 -May 1967. During this period experts 
at $ 1520 million were $ 189 million or 11 per cent below the previous year s . 
Anunuer of factors were responsible for this declırę. Continued drought reduced 
the export availabilities of commodities such as jute and tobacco . In Items such 
as sugar , tea , coffee , ollcakes and manganese ore a decline in international prices 
adversely affected export rcalisations. In the earlier months after devaluation 
there was a dislocation of trade with the rupee trade area pending re -negotiation 
of bflateral trade agreements on the basis of the revised par value of the rupee. 
Further , as regards exports to other countries , there was a certain amount of 
postponement of purchases by foreign importers and sales by Indian exporters in 
anticipation of a reduction in export duties or increase in export assistance . 

41. Almost all commodities recorded declines, with notable exceptions of leather , 
hides and skins, iron ore , iron and steel and cashew kernels. The bulk of the 
decline was on account of a few mator items. viz ., jute manufactures , tea , cotton 
textiles and tobacco unmanufactured . Export earnings from tea were , to some 
extent, adversely affected by the weakness in internațional demand , while the 
fall of nearly 16 per cent in exports of fute manufactures was partly due to the 
Abre shortage resulting from two surcessive short crops and intense competition 
from Pakistan . The sharp contraction in the value of exports of tobacco in 
Innfnciured to almost two - thirris the level of the previous year as mainly 
linked to a short- fall in production combined with poor offtake by the US. S . R . 
in view of a good crop in that country . High prices of cotton manufactures , 
regultins from # rise in the prices of indigenous and inipoi tecl raw cotton , affected 
cotton textile exports adversely . 

42 With the initial dimculties of the post-devaluation period overcome and 
with the adjustments and reductions that have been made in export cluties in 
tea, jute manufacturers, iron ore , manganrse ore, raw wool, und raw cotton , an 
Improvement in export trends could be expected in the coming months. Three 
main items, viz ., jute manufactures, tea and tobacco unmanufactured which regis 
tered , sharp decline after devaluation can be expected to show an improvement 
in 1967 -68. The prospects of a good jute crop in 1967 - 68 coupled with the recent 
export duty reductions should enable the industry to improve its export perfor 
mance Tea shipments in recent months have been fairly encouraging and if 
International price and demand continue at current levels , tea expo ts are expected 
to show an inprovement. The tobacco crop is also reportedly good and inter 
national prices have been firm . A recovery in unmanufactured tobacco exports 
can thus be expected . 


43. The import liberalisation initiated after the devaluation of the rupee in 
June 1966 , with the help of non - protect aid from Consortium countries , was 
contirued further during the year. The basic alm of the iniport Policy was to 
provide imported raw materials , components and spares so as to sustain higher 
production levels in export - oriented and other essential industries While the 
import requirements of 59 priority industries were liberalised in June 1966 , under 
the import policy for 1967- 68 announced in May 1967, licensing for the pitority 
Industries was further simplified and an element of continuity intrcduced by 
enabling units in the priority sectors to obtain further licences as sind when 
necessary A special scheme for registered exporters was introducet in August 
1966 to enable manutacturer exporters to replenish the import content in terms 
of raw materials, components and spares against the exports of specified products . 
Notwithstanding the liberalisation of imports, further progress was made in restrir 
ting imonnis op less essential items and items which are now indigenously produced 


- - 


- 


- 


SŁc . 3 (1 )] THE GAZEI TE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3481 
- - 

44. Although import Licences issued in the period subsequent to devaluation 
wcre much higher than in the previous year, total imports (according to Customs 
data ) during June 1966 -May 1567 at $ 2 ,625 million were $ 387 million or 
abrut 13 per cent luwer as compared with the previous year . Excluding cercals , 
Jeitilincs, other chemicals, raw cotton and raw jute , imports of all major items 
showedl u sizeable decline The decline in imports in the post -devaluation perlou 
to accounted for hy a number of factors . First, there is normally a considerable 
las bat .veer the issue of an import licence and its actual uti isation ; thus the level 
of imperts in the post -devaluatiorr twelve months reflects the strict import policy 
pursued in 1965 - 66 rather than the eilects of the recent liberalisation . Secondly , 
the liberalisation resulted in a virtual disappearance of premia on import licences 
and with the simplification in procedure , the need for excessive inventories was 
obviated . I hirdly , the higher costs of imports consequent to devaluaticn neces 
vitated a reassessment of production plans based on imported inputs. Fourth ] y , 
The rennssionary conditions in some industries were reflected in a decline in the 
lemand for impurted inputs . 


Assessment and Propscets 


45. The review of the economie situation in 1966 - 67 attempted in the foregoing 
paragraphs brings out clearly the persistence of serious imbalances in the economy, 
both internal and external, which have been further aggravated by the failure 
of monsoons for the second year in succession . The shortfall in agricultural 
( utput has given a further impetus to the upward trend in prices. It has also 
udversely affected some of our key exports , raw material supplies for which were 
greatly reduced . At the same time, it has dampened the demand in certain respects 
The steady increase in the price of foodgrains and the impoverishment of the 
agrarian eronomy in parts of the country afflicted by the drought have caused 
4 fall in the demand for certain consumer goods like textiles, and for goods 
transport services . These trends have also reacted adversely on the capacity 
of the community to save 


46 . While a good monsoon this year can make all the rifference between a 
l easonably satisfactory ecoromir situation and acute privation , it must be stressed 
that the imba ances in the economy that have persisted for several years now 
( an be rectified only through sustained effort over a number of years. The basic 
Iroblem is not only the restoration of stability but the imparting of strength to 
the economy for the larger etfort that is needed , both on domestic investment 
ind on exports . Thus, the food problem , the problem of price rises , the difficulties 
caused by the recession and the paramount need to secure larger foreign exchange 
darnings cannot be viewed in isolation from one another ; they have to be con 

ktered together in the context both of the short- term and the long - term needs 
< f the economy. This is why in adapting fiscal, monetary and investment po icies 
to the needs of the immediate future , it is essential continuously to keep in mind 
the longer -term objective of creating an environment for all -round and orderly 
conomic growth . 


47. The continuing upward trend in prices makes it essential in the immediate 
future to concentrate on the ways and means of securing price stability - and , 
Indeed , of some price reduction in respect of the basic items that enter into the 
ront of living. This problem has to be tackled partly from the supply side and 

rtly from the demand side. As to the latter , the decline In Axed investment, 
Wooth public and private , that has been noted earlier , a though disturbing from a 
long - term point of view , should tend to reduce the pressure chi crices . On the 
arther hand some investment in buffer stocks especially of foodgrains, together 
with provision of the necessary bank Anance would be desirable , despite the 
Urgenry of securing a fall in prices as early as possible . The demand ior con 
sumption goods in the coming year cannot but have an upward trend since 
National income and consumption in per capita terms have been relatively low 
to the last few years because of the stagnancy of agricultural output. The policy 
of avoiding deficit financing enunciated by the Government of India 
would mean that by and large the impact of budgetary operations on 
the volume of aggregate demand would be neutral, provided the same discipline 
15 adopted by the States. On the side of supply the rains this year have been 
atisfactory Over almost all parts of the country and the chances of a sizeable 
Ancrease in agricultural production appear , at this stage , to be good . With a 
Heayonable improvement in the supplies of domestic raw materials and with the 

arke availability of imported raw materials in consequence of the liberalised 
1 port policy , industrial production over the next twelve months as a whole should 
Also show a significant improvement. In view of the appearance of recessionary 
7. rends in certain industr / zs some corrective action by way of selective liberalisation 


3.182 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART 


were 


of credit has already been initiated . It is also proposed to undertake some 
f.dvance ordering of capital goods by the public sector. These and similar 
Measures will need to be supplemented by adequate effort from industry itself 

(or increasing productivity and reducing prices and unit costs. On the whole , 
it would be reasonable , in the coming year , to expect some, but not yet adequate 
hessening of the imbalance between overall demand and supply . 


48. The expected increase in agricultural output and in incomes provides a 
lavourable basis for evolving a long -term polity with regard to prices, incomes 
and costs . In this contest , the prices of foodgrains and of other agricultural raw 
joaterials have a crucial role. While it is important not to permit a sharp fall 
di these prices , there is need for some downward adjustment, taking into account 
Barticularly the importance of reducing costs and increasing the competitiveness 
if Indian industry in the export market. The stress of food policy at this juncture 
inust be on a vigorous procurement effort both for meeting the immediate needs 
of distribution and with a view to building up a buffer stocks for the longer run 
in the industrial field , the current recession from the conditions of a sellers 

larket at home which had prevailed hitherto offers a challenge, which will have 
to be met by offering price reductions and enlarging the market - especially the 
export market - rather than by curtailing output and employment In short , 

though " Incentive" pricing cannot be disregarded either in agriculture or in 
Industry, an appropriate incomes policy should seek an improvement in incomes 
througn increases in productivity all along the line rather than through an increase 
in prices. 


49 . The balance of payments continues to be under severe pressure. Over the 
year ending June 1967 , the foreign exchange reserves showed a fall of $ 159 
inillion and some further sengonal ſal in the next few months is to be cxpected 
A substantial improvement is conditional upon two factors : ( a ) availability of 
farger export surpluses as a resu t of increased production , and ( b ) a strengthening 
of the conpetitivoness of Indian exports in world markets . This latter is of 
particular importanre in view of the pric ! riscs that have occurred since devalu 

tion . To this end , both fuller utilisation of installed capacity and steady effort 
to bring down unit costs are essential. Above al, there is need for an unremitting 
( rive to build up export markets through an appropriate organisational effort 
fill the part of industry and trade. 


50 . In the complex econornic situation confronting the country at the present 
time, any action that aggravates overall Inflationa y pressures has to be avoided . 
Ilowever , with the accent of budgetary policy on elimination of deficits , monetary 
policy can , within an overall fram word of restraint, b : selectively reflationary . 
Some incasures in that direction have recently heer uoriounced against the back 
gruunid 0 : the recessionary trends atfecting pertain industries and the special 
LYDOrtance in that context of export pronotion . How jar this policy of selective 
monetary ease could be carried woulrl of course , have to be deciriod in the light 
ritic cmcrgiay situation Credit policy for the next busy season will have to 
take into account the probable overall performance of the monsoon . The range 
of monetary techniques available to the Reserve Bank has increased considerably 
in recent years and these instruments of policy will have to be used flexibly in 
( rder to faci itate an incre: se in procluction and in exports. The overall 1 81117 in 
fiscal and monetary relaxation , it must be stressed , is set by the availahillty of 
real savings , which in turn , depends on Vall economic performance as indicated 
by thr growth of real income and the continment of inflationary pressures Spe 
clal stress is needed in this context on getting the maximum results from the In 
vestments , both public and nrivate that have alreally lern iade and on creation 
and maintenance of a climate ſavourable to a sustained growth of savings and 
investment. 


51. Mobilisation of the real savings of the community will thus have to com 
mand high priority in the operation of the commrrcial hanks as of other ſinancial 
intermediaries This calls for an exonnsion of the hankin net -work , both terti 
torially and to starta of society net yet covered by it so as to enlarge the area of 
Artivity of the organise 1 Anancial sector. This tool will have to be shot 1 by 
the commerrial and co - orapetlin hont - vyhoso funntinng 1975 - 4 -2is the rural econo 

sl be regarded as complementary rather than competitive As impritrat 
as the mobilisation of denorisithole of the hanking system in allocating credit 
In terms of national priorities This reorfnntation of the policies and prorertures 
of commercial banks has to go hand in hand with closer ( o -ordination between 
thom the no - onrrativa banks and the industrinl finonning institutions to that 
end , the assistance and guidance of the R - serve Bank will continue to be available . 


SAC , S(11)] : THE GAZEITE OF INDIA :" SEPTEMBER 4 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 4483 


II. DEVELOPMENTS IN INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND COMMERCIAL BANKING 

52 . The developments during the year in commercial and co -operative banking 
and in the provision of Industrial Anance are brought out in this and the subse 
quent sections. 

53 . In the Aeld of commercial banking , further efforts were made during the 
year to strengthen the banking structure through voluntary mergers and through 
annual inspections and supervision . The branch expansion programme of the 
State Bank and its subsidiaries and other commercial banks continued to make 
progress. Stringent measures were taken by the Bank during the year to regulate 
the business of non -banking Institutions. In the feld of Industrial Anance, the 
institutional machinery built up over the last several years played an important 
role In meeting the increasing demand for funds cade upon it . 


Industrial Finance : Industrial Development Bank of India and other Term -leading 

Institutions 

54. The Industrial Development Bank of India further expanded its operations 
during the year 1966 - 67 , Total assistance ( excluding guarantees ) Banctioned by 
the IDBI aggregated Rs. 63. 76 crores during 1966 -67 ( July - June ), as compared 
with Rs. 67. 93 crores during 1965 - 66 . Disbursements were higher at Rs. 59. 30 
crores , as compared with Rs, 51. 10 crores in the previous year. Since its inception 
in July 1964 till the end of June 1967, the IDBI sanctioned assistance amounting 
to Rs. 177 13 crores and disbursed Rs. 134 . 25 crores . On June 30 , 1967, outstanding 
assistance ( including outstanding refinance assistance sanctioned by the Refinance 
Corporation for Industry upto end - August 1964 ) amounted to Rs, 144 .28 crores 
and outstanding commitments Rs. 53 ,22 crores . 


55 Direct Anancial assistance sanctioned by the IDBI comprising loans, under 
writing of shares and debentures and guarantees for loans and deferred payments 
during 1966 -67 ( July - June ) was lower at Rs. 33.83 crores on 33 applications relat 
ing to 25 concerns, compared with Rs, 59 . 58 crores on 49 applications in respect of 
38 concerns in 1965 -66 . Of the total direct assistance sanctioned , loans accounted 
for Rs. 23 .67 crores in respect of 19 applications, compared with Rs. 35 . 46 crores 
on 23 applications last year ; underwriting of shares amounted to Rs. 2 . 32 crores 
In respect of 10 applications, compared with Rs. 7.54 crores on 22 applications 
in 1965 - 66 and guarantees for loans and deferred payments Rs. 7. 85 crores on 
4 applications as against Rs. 16 ,67 crores on 4 applications last year . The bulk 
of the direct assistance sanctioned was in respect of new projects in vital sectors 
like fertilisers and alloy and special steels and chemicals ; a part of the loan 
assistance was in response to requests for additional france from industrial units 
to meet the over - runs in project cost arising from the devaluation of the rupee 
in June 1966. In several cases , the assistance was sanctioned in participation 
with other Anancial institutions; in the case of large projects , the co - operation 
of commercial banks was also enlisted , particularly in the matter of rupee loans 
on a cash basis . Disbursals of direct assistance during 1966 -67 ( July - June ) aggre . 
gated Rs. 25 . 90 crores - - Rs. 20 .71 crores on account of lcans and Rs. 5 . 19 crores 
in respect of underwriting of shares and debentures as compared with Rs. 25 . 23 
crores disbursed during the previous year, Commitments outstanding on June 
30 , 1967 , ir, respect of loans and underwriting assistance totalled Rs. 37. 88 crores . 


58 . Under the scheme for refinancing of industrial loans, the IDBI sanctioned 
145 applications for Rs. 20 . 72 crores during July 1966 - June 18167, AS compared 
with Rs. 20. 35 crores in respect of 173 applications during 1965 - 66 Disbursal 
of industrial loans totalled Rs. 19.49 crores , as against Rs. 21. 38 crores during 
1965 - 66 . Under the scheme for refinancing of medium - term export credits four 
applications for Rs. 0 . 58 crore were sanctioned and the amount disbursed was 
Rs. 0 .37 crore . In regard to the scheme for guarantee of advances to the private 
sector coal industry , the IDBI issued 3 guarantees for Rs. 5 .8 lakhs, as against 
11 guarantees for Rs. 58 .4 lakhs in the previous year, bringing the total number 
and amount of guarantees issued so far to 52 and Rs. 3 . 95 crores, respectively . 


- 57. An important development concerning refinance was the reduction in the 
rate in respect of refinance of industrial loans from B per cent (which had been 
in force since -March 5 , 1965 ) to 6 per cent, effective July 1 , 1967: the application 
of the reduced rate is subject to the condition that the institution availing of 
refinance does not itself charge on its corresponding loan more than 88 per cent 
per annum . In other cases, the normal rate of 64 per cent per annum continues 
to be applicable . In November 1998 , the penal charge hitherto levied on Anancial 
institutions for earlier repayment of the loan or part thereof was discontinued . 


3484 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA - SERTEMBER 23 , 1987/ ASVINA I; 1889 


[PART 11 


58 . Subscription by the IDBI to shares and bonds of financial institutions 
amounted to Rs. 7.40 crores during the year as against Rş. 1 .67 crores in 1965 -66 . 
Of this, Rs. 6 crores ( out of total sanctions of Rs. 3 crores ) were disbursed to 
the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India against the issue of 
special debentures , representing Governments , budgetary assistance to the ICICI. 
The Bank also contributed Rs. 25 lakhs to the share capital of the.Madras Industrial 
Investment Corporation Ltd ., Rs. 6 .25 lakhs to the share capital of the Jammu 
and Kashmir State Financtal Corporation , and Rs. 109 crores to the bonds issued 
by the State Financial Corporations of Andhra Pradesh , Mysore, Maharashtra , 
Kerala , Uttar Pradesh and Orissa and also the Madras Industrial Investment 
Corporation . The total contribution of the IDBI since its inception to the shares 
and bonds of staté financial corporations aggregated Rs. 5 . 24 crores, which was 
Ananced by recourse to borrowings from the National Industrial Credit (Long 
Term Operations ) Fund of the Reserve Bank of India . 


59 . The coverage of the scheme for rediscounting of bills arising out of sales of 
indigenous machinery on deferred payment basis was extended to include all 
machine making industries from November 15 , 1966 , in order to encourage indl 
genous machinery manufacturers and thus give an impetus to import substitution . 
To prevent diversion of such assistance to larger projects and as assistance under 
the Scheme could only be medium - sized , it was decided that cases involving re 
discounting of bills for more than Rs. 25 lakhs relating to any purchaser , over 
a year , should obtain prior clearance from the IDBI. At the same time, in order 
to extend the benefit of the scheme to a larger segment of small purchasers, 
the minimum amount of the transaction was lowered from Rs 1 lakh to Rs. 50.000 
generally and in case of agricultural implements to Rs. 15 ,000 . The procedures 
governing the scheme was also simplified during the year. Under the Scheme, 
the Bank rediscounted bills for Rs. 7 .119 crores as compared with crly Rs. 2 . 25 
crores during 1965 - 66 , bringing the total bills rediscounted since the inception 
of the scheme in April 1965 to Rs: 9 . 42 crores . 

60 . The Report for 1965 -66 referred to the introduction on April 1, 1966 , by the 
IDBI, of the Scheme for participation in loans and guarantees , to supplement the 
refinance operations with a measure of risk - sharing with other institutions on a 
systeinatic basis . Under this scheme, the IDBI sanctioned upto the end of June 
1967 Rs. 5 .88 crores by way of loans to 5 industrial concerns in participation with 
eligible financial institutions; of this amount Rs. 3 . 09 crores were disbursed . The 
extent of IDBI participation in the scheme varied between 56 per cent and 80 
per cent of the total assistance . 

61. The resources position of the IDBI was strengthened during the year through 
borrowings from the Government and the Reserve Bank which are the main source 
of funds besides repayment of assistance disbursed . Total borrowings from the 
Reserve Bank amounted to Rs. 5 . 24 crores and from the Government Rs. 127 5 
crores Borrowings from Government are inclusive of Rs. 33 - 50 crores drawn up to 
end -August 1964 by the Refinance Corporation for industry Ltd . Borrowings from 
the Government during the year amounted to Rs. 34 . 80 crores. In addition , during 
June 1967, a suri of Rs. 10 crores was received from the Reserve Bank of India , by 
way of further subscription towards the issued capital of the IDBI, thus raising it 
to Rs. 20 crores. 

62.- In the context of reduced level of activity in the capital market, substantial 
assistance was provided to the corporate sector during the year by other financial 
Institutions. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India sanction 
ed net assistance of Rs. 19 . 12 crores during the year ended March 1967 as against 
Rs. 23 . 09 crores in 1965 - 66 . Or this , loans in foreign currencies amounted to 
$ 8 . 4 million or Rs. 6 . 30 crores , rupee loans Rs. 5 .65 crores , guarantees Rs. 1 crore , 
underwriting of shares and debentures Rs. 5 .93 crores and direct subscription to 
shares Rs. 0 . 24 crore. The amount actually disbursed was higher at Rs. 22 - 60 
crores - Rs. 12 : 92 crores in foreign currencies and Rs. 9 .68 crores in rupees - as 
against Rs. 19 29 crorest disbursed in the preceding year . Since its inception in 
1955 upto the end of March 1987, the Corporation sanctioned net assistance aggre 
gating Rs. 184 . 87 croreg to 433 companies which was made up of foreign currency 
Joans of the equivalent of Rs. 104 : 99 crores , rupee loans Rs. 36 . 70 crores, guarantees 
Rs. 3 25 crores, underwriting of shares and debentures Rs. 33 . 83 crores and direct 
subscription to shares and dehentures Rs. 6 . 10 crores . The amount disbursed till 
March 1967 aggregated Rs. 122 . 34 crores or two- thirds of the total sanctions and 
comprised Rs. 73.52 crores in foreign currencies and Rs. 48 .82 crores in rupees . 
Outstanding loans and advances of the Industrial Finance Corporation of India rose 


@ Rs. 29.60 crores at post - devaluation value. 
† Rs. 25 . 30 crores at post- devaluation value, 


SIC, 8 (ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3485 


substantially by Rs. 23 .97 crores during the eleven -month period July 1966 – -May 
1967, as against Rs. 1808 : crores during the whole of 1965 -66 ; those of the State 
Financial Corporations increased by Rs. 10 .54 crores during the year as against 
R . 10 . 97 crores during 1965 -66. The Industrial Finance Corporation of India and 
the State Financial Corporations also invested in shares of industrial concerns, both 
as direct subscription and as part of the underwriting arrangement. 

63 With the increasing reliance of the corporate sector on term - lending institu 
tions for a substantial part of its Anancial requirements , these institutions further 
augmented their resources during the year . The Industrial Credit and Investment 
Corporation obtaillerl during the vear 1966 -67 ( April -March ) an advance of ( 1 ) 
RS. 1101 S 10m lie covei ment of India (rulerred to in the last year s Report) . 
bringing total borrowings so far from Government to Rs. 32 50 crores , and ( ii ) 
R $ w or n " ron In IDBI uy;" ]} ;1 the issue of 55 per cent Special Debentures . 
AS : not 

rel riit, a lesh line il crolit Of DM 3 million was ob 
tained from the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederauibau oľ the Government of Federal 
Republic of Germany bringing the total credit sanctioned by that institution to 
DM 65 million , The Industrial Finance Corporation of India issued 54 per cent 
twelve -year bonds for Rs. 6 crores in September 1966 , while a further loan of 
DM 85 million . Two state financial corporations, viz ., Uttar Pradesh and Madras 
in February 1987 bringing the total loans sanctioned by it to the Corporation to 
DM 85 million . Two state financial corporations, viz ., Uttar Pradesh and Madras 
Industrial Investment Corporation raised their paid -up capital by Rs. 45 lakhs 
and Rs 50 lakhs respectively , while seven corporations foated bonds for an 
aggregate sum of Rs. 6 . 50 crores . At the end of June 1967, seven State financial 
corporations had accepted fixed deposits aggregating Rs. 13:05 crores. Besides , 
the state financial corporations availed themselves of borrowing facilities from 
the Reserve Bank against Government securities and ad hoc bonds. Some of the 
Corporations took advantage of the refinancing facilities made available by the 
IDBI. At the end of June 1967 , total refinancing facilities made availed of by 
fourteen corporations ( including MIIC ) and outstanding aggregated Rs. 14 -61 
crores . 


64, During the year , six State Financial Corporations were inspected by the 
Reserve Bank in terms of Section 37A of the State Financial Corporations Act, 
while the inspection of one more was in progress at the close of the year , 
Financing of Small - Scale Industries 

65 An important development relating to financing of small - scale industries was 
the widening of the coverage , during the year , of the Government of India scheme 
for the guarantee of advances granted to small - scale industries, by specified banks 
and financial institutions. Hitherto , under the scheme, only those industrial units 
whose investment of a capital nature ( i.e . investment in land , building - and plant 
and machinery , including the capitalised value of rented promises , if any , but ex 
cluding the amount spent on housing and amenjites for workers ) did not exceed 
Rs. 5 lakhs, were treated as small - scale industries for purpoges of the scheme. 
Effective March 1 , 1967, however, the definition of small - scale industries for the 
purpose of the scheme was revised , so as to include all industrial undertakings, 
having , investment In plant and machinery of a value not exceeding Rs 7 lakhs. 
The list of credit institutions cligible to avail of the guarantee facility was also 
expanded to include all central cooperative banks and specifteci ncn - scheduled 
banks while the scheme of guarantee assistance was itself liberalised by increas 
in the cover against loss in respect of any one advance from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 9 
lakhs and by extending the guarantee for term advances from 7 years to 10 years . 

66 . During the year ended June 1967, the Reserve Bank , which is entrusted with 
the administration of the scheme, received 19, 1:37 applications for credit limits 
aggregating Rs. 82 : 31 crores, compared with 14 , 208 applications for Rs. 00 . 10 crores 
during 1965 - 66 and 9 ,015 applications for Rs. 39 : 29 crores in 1964 - 65 ,- The amount . 
for which guarantees were issued was higher at Rs, 55. 97 crores in 1966 - 67 as." 
against Rs. 50 : 45 crores in 1965 - 66 and Rs. 29:47 crores in 1964 - 65. Since the 10 
ception of the scheme in July 1960 till the end of June 1987, the Bank received 
53. 545 applications for guarantee in respect of credit limits amounting to R9 227. 97 
crores and issued 44 , 928 guarantees covering credit limits amounting to Rs. 172 : 63 . 
crores . Though the bulk of the applications continued to be received from the 
State Bank of India other specified credit institutions have been increasingly taking 
advantage of the facility under the scheme. Since the inception of the scheme up 
to June 1967 , 77 claims aggregaling Rs. 9 : 74 lakhs were paid under the scheme. 

87. The State Bank of India under its liberaliscd scheme increased its assistance 
to small cole industrial unit smali- scale industrial co - operatives and unity in the 
Rural palustries Projqif I , number of units Aslated r com 9,3 , 7 of the 


* 3486 SHE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 2 $, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


(Part II 


end of March 1966 to 11, 142 by end-March 1967, and the working capital limits 
sanctioned to them from Rs. 51- 93 crores to Rs. 66 . 97 crores. At the end of March 
1967 , the outstanding advances under the scheme stood at Rs. 36 29 crores. The 
working capital limits sanctioned by the seven subsidiaries ot the bank under the 
liberalised scheme also increased from Rs. 13 73 crores in respect of 2 , 213 units at 
the end cf March 1966 to Rs. 18 .86 crores - in respect of 3 , 133 units at the end of 
March 1967. The outstandings were Rs. 8 . 36 crores at the end -March 1967. 


68 . Other assistance provided by the State Bank and its subsidiaries includes (1 ) 
medium - term credit facilities to small - scale industries for expansion and moderni 
sation , (11) assistance under the Instalment Credit Scheme to small and medium 
sized business concerns, engaged in approved manufacturing operations, for faci 
litating purchase of equipment or machinery , and ( ill ) advances to units engaged 
in export industrien . 


Unit Trust of India . 

69. The operations of the Unit Trust of India during 1966 -87 were marked by 
an impressive recovery in the sale of units , in contrast to the sharp decline in the 
preceding year. Total units sold during the year 1966 -67 ( July - June ) aggregated 
Rs. 9 . 24 crores in respect of 41,570 applications; of this Rs. 9 18 crores in respect 
of 41,516 applications were invested by individuals . In 1965 - 66 , only Rs. 2 15 
crores worth of units under 10 ,024 applications were sola . 

70 . Repurchases of units during the year 1966 -67 amounted to Rs 1 . 99 crores, 
of which Rs. 1 crore was accounted for by a single institutional unit-holder; this 
works out to 6 . 9 per cent of the aggregate funds subscribed by unit-holders . In 
1965 -66 , repurchases amounted to Rs. 1 09 crores. The total number of unit -holders 
on June 30 , 1967 exceeded 1 , 69, 000 as against 1, 34 ,621 a year ago . 

71 The Trust has announced an income distribution to unit holders for the 
year 1966 - 67 at the rate of - 7 per cent — the same as that for the previous year . 
This is free of income - tax upto Rs. 1 ,000 to individual unit holders, irrespective 
of their other income 

72 . As part of the sales promotion effort, the network of individual agents for 
canvassing sale of units , referred to in last Report, is being expanded . The 
number of agents and stock -brokers on the Trust s approved list now exceeds 800. 
Besides these agents and stock -brokers, units are being sold through over 14 ,000 
post offices and 4 , 000 branches of leading commercial banks. 

73 . The work relating to sale and repurchase of units has been decentralised 
effective July 1 , 1967 . From that date , the four offices of the Trust at Bombay 
Calcutta , Delhi and Madras have been dealing with the work relating to sale and 
repurchase of units emanating from their respective regions (which correspond 
to the four currency circles of the Reserve Bank ) . The Trust will thus be in a 
position to offer better and prompt service to unit -holders in the region concerned . 
Besides , the regional offices should be of help in the larger task of inobilisation 
of savings . 

74. The total investments of the Trust at the end of May 1967 aggregated Rs. 33 - 6 
crores and covered a wide range of manufacturing, financial and public utility 
enterprises. Of the total investments , ordinary shares of corporate enterprises 
accounted for Rs. 13 . 7 crores ( 40 -8 per cent) , preference shares Rs. 37 crores 11 : 0 
per cent) . debentures Rs. 12 - 8 crores ( 38 : 1 per cent) , bonds of public corporations 
Rs. 0 .07 crores ( 2 . 1 per cent ) and the balance of Rs. 2 : 7 crores (80 per cent) repre 
sented advance deposits in respect of purchase of debentures and preference shares, 
application money and treasury bills. Incidental to its investment activities , the 
Trust continued to provide underwriting facilities , with respect to new issues by 
old and established companies by way of firm commitment to invest upto the 
amounts per tant di AS - - - 

75 . The Working Group on Saying - cum - Ingurance Plan appointed by the 
Reserve Bank at the request of the Trust ( vide last Report ) completed its work 
and submitted its Report to the Bank . It is expected that a Savings - cum - Insurance 
Plan would be inftiated by the Trust before long with the cooperation and assis 
tance of the Life Insurance Corporation , 

76 . A classification of unit -holders according to the size of transactions shows 
that roughly cne out of nine applications during the calendar year 1966 was for 
ten units , and one out of four applications was for 20 - 50 units , Roughly , one in 
five applications was for 60100 units . Thus, almost six out of every ten applica 
tions were for 100 units or less . Salary and wage earners continued to be the 


PC, 3(ii)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 / ASVINĄ 1, 1889 3484 - 


- 


= 


largest single group investing in units . This category accounted for 50 per cent 
of the number of the applications and absorbed 40 per cent of the number of units 
sold . 


Strengthening of the Banking Structure 

77. The process of consolidation of the banking system in the country , through 
voluntary mergers of non - viable units with others , made. further progress during 
the year . Six banks transferred their liabilities and assets to five other banks, 
while the busines ; of three banks was acquired by the State Bank of India under 
Section 35 of the State Bank of India Act , 1955 . In 1965-66 , 14 , Banks had 
trafisterred their liabilities and assets to eleven other banks, while the business 
of three banks was taken over by the subsidiaries of the State Bank . During the 
year under review , no bank was amalgamated with another bank either urder 
Section 44A or under Section 45 of the Banking Regulation Act . As regards li 
quidation of banks during the year, two non - scheduled banks were ordered to be . 
wound up by Court, while four non - scheduled banks went into voluntary liquida - 
tions, after obtaining from the Reserve Bank a certificate under Section 44 ( 1 ) of 
the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 . The Reserve Bank issued such certificates to 
sixteen non -scheduled banks during the year, to enable them to go into voluntary 
liquidation . . 

78 . Annual inspection of all banks, which is an Integral part of the process of 
strengthening the banking structure, was made in respect of 52 scheduled borks 
and 15 non -scheduled banks during the year under Section 35 of the Banking Re 
gulation Act , 1949. In addition , scrutiny of affairs of 22 banks was carried out 
for various purposes including ( 1 ) judging whether there is a prima facie case 
for misſeasance proceedings, ( 2 ) for issue of certificate under Section 44 ( 1 ) , ( 3 ) 
for determining the future set -up of banks, and ( 4 ) for determining the progress 
made in rectificaticn of defects . 

79 . Seventy - four banks sent comments / representations on the Inspection je 
ports . After examining these , directions were issued to 37 banks, while 14 banks 
were asked to submit periodical progress reports. In the case of 15 banks, no 
action was considered necessary, while the remaining 8 cases were under consi 
deration . With a view to pointedly hringing to the notice of banks the main 
delects in their working , representatives of such banks were called for informal 
discussions, and the need for taking urgent steps for removing those defects was 
impressed upon them . In order to reduce the time- lag between the completion of 
the inspection reports and taking final action thereon , simultaneously with the 
forwarding of copies of inspection reports , eight banks were asked to take certain . 
specific steps and to submit monthly / quarterly progress reports . At present 
51 banks (31 scheduled and 20 non - scheduled ) are working under directions issued 
by the Reserve Bank and submitting periodical reports , while 20 other banks are only 
submitting monthly / quarterly progress reports . In 35 cases , observers were deput 
ed to attend the Board / Committee meetings of the banks. 


80 . In view of a considerablo tlo in recent years in the volume and range of 
guarantee business of commercial banks, the Bank appointed an Informal Advi 
sory Committee under the Chairmanship of one of the Deputy Governors of the 
Bank for assessing the implications for the baking system of this increase in the 
guarantee business and examining the need for its regulation . On the basis of 
the recommendations of the Committee, the Governor laid down on May 3 , 1967, 
certain guidlines for the banks in respect of the total volume of guarantee busi 
ness of individual banks, the purpose of the guarantee , the period of maturity , 
security offered and distribution of risk . 


Deposit Insurance Corporation 

81. The number of banks insured under the facility provided by the Deposit 
Insurance Corporation , which had declined from 138 at the end of June 1965 to 
107 by end - June 1966 , declined further to 96 by the end of June 1967. This was 
the result of registration of one new bank and cancellation of registration in res 
pect of 12 banks: Of these 12 banks, cancellation of 9 cases was due to transfer 
of thetr deposit liabilities and equivalent assets , in the case of one bank (because 
of its merger with another institution ) and in the case of the remaining two banks 
the cancellation was consequent upon the sanction by the Central Government ct 
a scheme for the administration of the banks under the Defence of India Rules . 

82 . The Corporation s liability for payment of the Insured deposits was attract 
ed during the year in the case of two insured banks for a total of Rs. 18 . 62 lakhs. 
Since its inception in January 1962 upto the end of June 1967, the Corporation , 


3488 : THL GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART II 


met claims aggregating Rs. 57. 21 lakhs In respect of 11 banks. During the year 
the Corporation received reimbursements amounting to Rs. 18 - 40 lakhs, total 
reimbursements received since 1962 amounting to Rs. 32 -53 lakhs and relating to 
il bunks. 

83 . A development soon after the close of the year was introduction in the 
Lok Sabha on July 17 , 1967 of the Deposit Insurance Corporation ( Amenament) 
Bill , 1967 to amend the Deposit Insurance Corporation Act, 1961, so as to extend 
the scheme of deposit insurance to cover Ştate , central and larger primary non 
agricultural credit societies, i.e ., urban co - operative banks with paid -up capital 
and reserves of Rs. 1 lakh or more . 


Branch Expansion Programme 

84 . The Report for 1965 - 66 referred to the progress made under the first three 
year branch expansion prograinine which concluded on July 31, 1965 . By end 
June 1987, the number of offices opened under the programme rose to 602 of which 
224 were at unbanked centres. Under the second expansion programme covering 
the two - year period August 1965 to July 1967, the Bank approved the opening of 
663 offices, ui which 239 are to be at unbanked centres. Upto the end of June 
1967, licences were issued for 508 new offices , of which 172 are at unbanked centres 
Against these licences, banks have opened 389 offices, including 139 at unbanked 
centres 

85 . As part of the second and third branch expansion programmes launched 
by the State Bank of India , two more centres were approved during the year ( July 
1966 - June 1967 ) under the second expansion programme bringing the total num 
ber of approved centres under that programme to 165 ; against these , the State 
Bank has so far opened 143 branches, of which 11 branches were opened since 
July 1966. The bank was advised that branches at centres approved under the 
second expansion programme should be opened by December 1968 , and that no 
additional centres would be approved under this programme. Under the third 
expansion programme, in terms of which the State Bank is required to open 319 
branches at Treasury / Sub - Treasury centres during the five years 1964 to 1968 , it 
has so far opened 185 branches , of which 60 were opened during the year ended 
June 1967. 

86 . During the year July 1966 to June 1967, the subsidiaries of the State Bank 
of India opened 52 branches under the second Ave-year expansion programme, of 
which four were one -man offices . Thus, during July 1966 to June 1987 , the State 
Bank and its subsidiaries together opened 123 branches under their expansion pro 
grammes . The total number of offices of the State Banks and its subsidiaries , as 
at the end of June 1987, stood at 2 , 148 . Other scheduled banks (t. e . other than 
the State Bank of India and its - 16 .xii . fies ) opened 184 new offices during the 
year at places which were not pretty to win cu by either a scheduled bank or a 
non - scheduled bank having paid -up drital uk eserves of over Rs. 50 ,000 and 
268 new offices at other centres . fi uudnio , uffices were added as a result 
of amalgamation / take - over of offices of nori -NÇłuvuuled banks consequent upon 
transfer of their assets and liabilities. On the other hand, 13 offices were closed 
during the year ended June 1967. The total number of offices of scheduled hanks 
thus increased by 470 during the year ended June 1967 from 6 , 122 to 6 ,592. 


87. Flve more clearing houses were established during the year under review , 
thus bringing the total number of clearing houses in the country to 89 at the end 
of June 1967 . Of these , 7 are managed by the Reserve Bank , 68 by the State Bank 
of India ( including the one that was previously managed by a commercial bank ) 
and 14 by the subsidiaries of the State Bank of India . 
Regulation of Business of Non -Banking Institutions relathag to Acceptance of 

deposits 

88 . Mention was made in last years Report of the no directives issued by the 
Reserve Bank in January 1966 — one to non -banking non - financial companies 
( except those under certain exempted categories ) and the other to non -banking Anan 
cial companies which carry on or finance hire -purchase business and the amend 
ments made to the directives on April 4 and June 29, 1966 . The directive issued to 
non -banking non - financial companies was further amended on September 7. 1966 
in order to permit intercorporate Investments in the form of deposits among Gov 
ornment companies . 

89. A Survey of deposits with non -banking companies as of March 31, for the 
years 1962 to 1966 was carried out by the Bank during the year . According to 
the Survey , the total number of deposit accounts in the non -banking corporate 


SEC. % (11)] 


THE GAZETTŁ OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 / ASVINA 1, 1889 3489 


sector increased by about 1 lakh , and the total volume of deposits by about Rs. 75 
- crores to Rs. 209 crores during the period March 1962 to March 1965 . The Survey 

also disclosed that the less well-managed and smaller - sized private limited com 
panies continued to rely on deposits to a much larger extent than was justified 
by their capital base - indicating, prima facle , over trading preceded of followed 
by the acceptance of commitments which were unduly large in relation to their 
own Anancial position , liquid resources or ability to repay the deposits within 
relatively short- term periods. In the context of this and the reported failure of 
some companies in and around Delhi, two new directives were issued on October 
29 , 1966 in supersession of all the earlier notifications and orders , viz . the Non 
Banking Financial Companies (Reserve Bank ) Directions, 1966 , and the Non 
Banking Non -Financial Companies (Reserve Bank ) Directions, 1966 . These new 
directives came into effect from January 1, 1967. The Non -Banking Financial Com 
panies (Reserve Bank ) Directions, 1966 are applicable to all financial companies , 
Irrespective of whether they accept deposits or not, while the Non - Banking Non 
Financial Companies (Reserve Bank ) Directions 1986 are applicable only to those 
non - financial companies which have been accepting deposits from the public. The 
two directives taken together broadly provide for 

(1) controlling terms and conditions on which deposits can be accepted ; 
(ii) restriction of deposits to 25 per cent of paid -up capital and free reserves 

in the case of both non -banking Anancial and non -banking non 
ſinancial companies, other than housing finance and hire -purchase 
finance companies ; companies having deposits in excess of the ceiling , 
were allowed a period of two years to bring the deposits within the 

celling ; 
(10 ) maintenance of liquid assets equivalent to 10 per cent of outstanding 

deposits in the case of hire -purchase and housing finance companies ; 
(lv ) ensuring that hire -purchase debts are collected within a reasonable 

period ; 
( v ) furnishing of information in sufficient detall by Anancial companies 

regarding their operations, and by non - finacial companies regarding 
their deposits and hire -purchase transactions. The Bank also issued 
two orders on April 4 , 1967, regarding payment of Interest on pre 
mature withdrawal of deposits . 


NI. DEVELOPMENTS IN CO -OPERATIVE BANKING 
90 . In the context of the programmes for the intensive development of agricul 
ture , which are likely to generate an increasing demand for credit , the need for 
strengthening the co -operative credit structure has become paramount. An effec 
tive Implementation of the crop loan system , to which a reference was made in 
the last year s Report, and the reorganisation of primary agricultural credit societies 
on the basis of viability received emphasis during the year . Important develop 
ments in the sphere of co -operative banking were (1) the inclusion of twelve State 
Co -operative banks in the Şecord Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, ( ii) 
the enactment of the Banking Regulation (Co -operative Societies ) Rules, 1968 , 
which came into force with effect from December 3. 1966 and ( iii) the issue of 
directives to co -operative banks under Section 21 of the Banking Regulation Act. 
1949 restricting their advances against cotton and kapas, following the imposition 
of similar restrictions on advances of scheduled commercial banks. 


01. In the sphere of co - operative credit policy , an important development was 
the appointment by the Reserve Bank of the All- India Rural Credit Review Com 
mittee in July 1966 and a Working Group on Industrial Financing by Co -operative 
Banks in June 1967, in pursuance of the recommendations made by the Bank s 
Standing Advisory Committee on Rural and Co -operative Credit. The All- India 
Rural Credit Review Committee under the chairmanship of Shri B . Venkatapplah , 
is required to review the supply of rural credit in the context of the Fourth Plan 
generally , and in particular in the context of the requirements of the intensive 
programmes of agricultural production contemplated in different parts of the 
country, and make recommendations, particularly in respect of the progress of the 
supply of rural credit, the working of the crop loan system , the progress and 
significance of rural branches of commercial banks, the schemes of rural pilot 
centres and one-man offices of the State Bank , and the progress made in respect 
of agricultural credit corporations and allied mattters . 

92. The Working Group on Industrial Financing by Co- operative Banks under 
the chairmanship of Shri P . N . Damry , Deputy Governor , is to examine the existing 
situation regarding the resources available to co -operative processing Industries and 


300 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29 1967 / ASYINA 1, 1989 


[PARI il 


co -operative cottage and small - scale industries from the co - operative banking 
structure as also the question of bringing closer inter -relationship between the 
various types of co - operative banks and between the higher financing agencies and 
these banks from the point of view of ensuring adequate flow of funds to co 
operative processing industries and cottage and small- scale industries . 
Co -operative Credit: Pollcy , Procedures and Operations 


93 . With a view to assisting the process of implementation of the crop loan 
system , the Reserve Bank prepared and published a manual in June 1966 for 
distribution to the Co -operation and the Agriculture Departments of the State Gov 
ernments , the State co -operative banks, the central banks and others concerned . 
The manual has been translated into regional languages . As in 1965 -66 , the officers 
of the Bank participated in the State Level Conferences on the crop loan system 
organised by the Government of India in the various States , so as to facilitate a 
proper understanding of the system in all its aspects . 

94 . In the context of providing adequate finance for stepping up agricultural 
production , the Conference of State Ministers for Co - operation held at Hydera 
bad in June 1964 had emphasised the need for the reorganisation of primary 
agricultural credit societies on the basis of viability ( vide 1963 -64 Report ) . 
The Conference had recommended that the State Governments should carry 
out surveys of all existing societies, work out, for each area, the volume of busi 
ness necessary to attain a viable status and formulate specific programmes for 
enabling the societies to attain viability . Accordingly , most of the State Govern 
ments have carried out the surveys and the societies which are very weak or 
which do not have chances of attaining the desired standards are to be liquidat 
ed or amalgamated . The total number of societies is expeoted to be thug 
reduced from 2 .01 lakhs at the end of 1964 -65 to 1 .28 lakhs by the end of the 
Fourth Plan . With a view to enabling the societies to meet their establishment 
charges till they reach the necessary level of loan business , the Government of 
India decided in May 1966 to raise the level of subsidy for appointment of 
paid managers . 


95 . During the year , the Bank decided that C class co -operative banks 
which had adopted the crop loan system or were working in special project 
areas or were serving areas affected by drought and scarcity and which had 
approached the Reserve Bank for loans from the National Agricultural Credit 
( Stabilisation ) Fund , should be exempted from maintaining non - overdue cover 
for borrowings from the Bank , if a request to that effect was received . A 
similar concession in maintenance of non -overdue cover was agreed to be given 
to A and B class banks also in areas affected by drought if they applied for it . 
The total credit limits sanctioned by the Bank to the State co - operative banks 
for financing seasonal agricultural operations and marketing of crops at the 
concessional rate of 2 per cent below the Bank rate increased from Rs. 212 .66 
crores in 1965 - 66 to Rs. 226 . 26 crores in 1966 - 67 , Drawals aggregated Rs. 282 . 97 
crores during the above period , while repayments were Rs. 291. 90 crores ; the 
outstandings at the end of the year were Rs. 134. 80 crores as against Rs. 143. 73 
crores at the end of 1965 - 66 . A sum of Rs. 1.70 crores was also sanctioned to 
two State Co -operative banks at Bank rate to enable them to convert short 
term loans granted by them to central co -operative banks for seasonal agri 
cultural operations and marketing of crops , into medium - term loans. The amount 
drawn and outstanding was Rs. 0 .68 crore . 


96. The Reserve Bank also sanctioned special credit limits at the concessłonal 
rate of 2 per cent below the Bank rate for the high - yielding varieties pro 
gramme during kharif and tabi 1966 - 87 aggregating Rs. 17. 74 crores and Rs. 
13 .50 crores , respectively . The amounts drawn by State co - operative banks 
were Rs. 3 .94 crores and Rs. 2 , 94 crores, respectively . It may be added that the 
granting of such special limits has been discontinued from the current year 
( 1967 -68 ) in consultation with the Government of India . The requirements 
of the high -yielding varieties programme for 1967 -68, will however be fully taken 
into consideration while considering the total short -term agricultural lending 
programme of the central banks. 


ana 


97 , In view of the reduction of the period ( from 18 months to 6 months ) 
and in the volume of short-term credit ( from full value of the consignment to 
50 per cent ) made available by the Government of India to State Govern 
ments . for distribution of chemical fertilisers, and the likely inability of co 
operatives to take up the responsibility without adequate financial assistance , 
the Reserve Bank indicated its willingness to sanction credit limits to State 


Szc. yü) ] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3491 


co -operative banks, at Bank rate against Government guarantee under Section 
17 ( 4 ) ( C ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act for financing stocking and distribu 
tion of chemical fertilisers . Credit limits aggregating Rs. 27 crores were sanc 
tioned operative during the calendar year, 1967, but no drawals had been made 
on them till the end of June 1967 , 

98 . The medium -term credit limits for agricultural purposes sanctioned Dy 
the Reserve Bank during 1966 -67 at a concessional rate of 15 per cent below 
the Bank rate amounted to Rs. 15 , 34 crores, as compared with Rs, 14 .06 crores 
sanctioned last year . Drawals on limits came to Rs. 8 .37 crores as compared 
with Rs. 7 .45 crores in the previous year ; outstandings as on June 30 , 1967 
were Rs, 15 . 41 crores. The Reserve Bank has also decided to sanction medium 
terin loans to State co -operative banks for financing the purchase of shares in 
co -operative cotton ginning and pressing societies, groundnut oil mills and rice 
mills . Some policy aspects regarding medium -term loans from the Reserve 
Bank were reviewed at the thirty - sixth meeting of the Bank s Standing Ad 
visory Committee on Rural and Co - operative Credit held on May 23 , 1967. While 
agreeing to the continuation of the existing policy of reimbursement followed 
by the Reserve Bank for sanctioning medium - term loans to State co -operativa 
banks for agricultural purposes, the Committee noted that ( i ) in deserving 
cares, the basic level would be suitably relaxed by the Reserve Bank , if ne 
cessary spontaneously , and ( ii) the inadequate drawals of medium - term credit 
limits by State co - operative banks could be remedied if the co - operative banku 
sent their applications in time to the Reserve Bank and the State Govern 
ments executed their guarantees quickly . The Committee recommended that 
of relevant conditions were satisfied , the Reserve Bank might consider granting 
medium - term loans for five years to a larger extent than at present, so that 
the needs of a well - designed programme of intensive development in an area 
did not suffer for want of medium - term funds. If a longer period was found . 
necessary, the cultivators should be advised to approach co -operative land mort 
gage banks. 

99 . It was mentioned in the last Report that in respect of financial accom 
modation to State co -operative banks for financing the production and market 
ing of handloom weavers societies , the assistance would be on the basis of 
actual production and sales and not on the number of looms and the scale of 
finance fixed per loom . However , in yicw of the difficulties experienced by the 
societies in complying with the requirements of the change - over, particularly 
those relating to the maintenance oť 10 per cent margin and fixation of assis 
tance on the basis of past sales, the Bank agreed to treat, as a temporary 
measure, certain items of assets as cover for borrowings in lieu of the margin 
of ten per cent prescribed . The Bank also agreed to fix the normal credit limit 
for a society at one - fourth instead of one - fifth of its actual production in the 
previous year, in addition to a reasonable estimate of the likely increase in 
production in the current year . The credit limits sanctioned by the Bank for 
financing the production and marketing activities of handloom weavers 80 
cieties for the financial year 1966 -67, at the concessional rate of 13 per cent 
below the Bank rate under Section 17 ( 2 ) (bb ) or ( 4 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank 
of India Act totalled Rs. 6 . 48 crores as compared with Rs. 6 .73 crores in 1986 
88 . The drawals amounted to Rs. 4 .87 crores and outstandings at the end of 
the year stood at Rs. 4 .85 crores . In addition , a sum of Rs. 0 .17 crore was 
drawn by one State co -operative bank under Section 17 ( 4 ) ( a ) of the Reservo 
Bank of India Act at the concessional rate for financing handloom Weavero 
Co -operatives during 1966 -67 and the entire amount was outstanding at the end of 
the financial year. The Bank also sanctioned Rs. 1 .00 crore at Bank rate under 
Section 17 ( 2 ) ( a ) or ( 4 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act for Anancing com 
mercial or trade transactions of apex handloom weavers societies for the inan 
cial year 1966 -67. Drawals aggregated Rs. 0 . 58 crore and outstanding were 
Rs. 0 . 24 crore at the end of the financial year . 

100. As scarcity conditions continued to prevail in certain parts of the coun 
try , the National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund had to be utiliged 
again for converting into medium - term loans , the short - term dues to the Re 
Merve Bank from the State and central co -operative banks in the affected areas . 
During the year, Rs. 7. 45 crores were sanctioned to four State co -operativa 
banks on behalf of 79 central co - operative banks at the concessional rate of 
14 per cent below the Bank rate , against which the State co -operative banks 
drew Rs. 6 ,43 crores. The implementation of the scheme of building up the agri 
cultural credit stabilisation funds at various levels of the co -operative credit 
structure ( vide 1964 - 65 and 1965 - 66 Reports ) was pursued by the Reserve 
Bank with the Government of India and the State Governments . During 


3492 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 


[PART II 


the financial year 1966 - 67, the Government of India provided Rs. 6 .78 crores 
to eight State Governments to enable them to strengthen the stabilisation 
funds of the State co - operative banks, The All - India Rural Credit Survey 
Committee had also recommended the creation of Agricultural Credit (Reliet 
and Guarantee ) Funds by the Central and State Governments to meet situations 
arising out of recurrit. b nalial calamities, necessitating writing off of the 
dues of co -operative Creda institutions. Such funds have been created by all 
the State Governments but the total amount to their credit was only Rs. 97 . 00 
lakhs iis on March 31, 1966 . The Bank is pursuing the question of augmenting 
the amounts available in these funds and of a Fund being set up for the pur 
pose by the Government of India , 


101. Loans amounting to Rs. 2 .47 crores were sanctioned to 14 State Govern 
ments during the financial year 1966 -67 out of the National Agricultural Credit 
(Long - term Operations ) Fund to enable them to contribute to the share capital 
of 46 central co - operative banks, 1780 primary agricultural credit societies and 
five central land mortgage banks. The State governments drew a sum of R . 
2 .27 crores against these sanctions and repaid Rs. 3 .47 crores in respect of pre 
vious loans. The total amount due from the State governments as on March 
31 , 1967 was Rs. 28 .22 crores. 


102. As in the previous year , the Reserve Bank of India convened in March 
1987 a meeting of the representatives of the central land mortgage banks, the 
Life Insurance Corporation of India , the State Bank of India and the Govern 
ment of India to discuss the debenture programme of the central land mortgage 
banks. A programme of Rs. 57 . 40 crores was approved on the basis of an 
assured support totalling Rs. 30 crores from the Government of India , the Life 
Insurance Corporation of India , the State Bank of India and the Reserve Bank of 
India . The support from the Government of India , which will amount to Rs. 10 
crores , is subject to the condition that (1 ) the State Governments concerned will 
contribute a specified amount to the debentures of their land mortagage banks, 
and ( 11) the land mortgage banks will have to show , as cover for the contributions 
made by the Central Government, unencumbered mortgages of an equal or larger 
amount for certain specified purposes. The support from the three public sector 
institutions is , on the other hand , subject to the condition that at least 00 per cent 
of the loans shown as cover for debentures should be for productive purposes . 

103 . A development of significance in this context is the increased role of 
commercial banks in supporting the debentures of land mortgage banks. The 
Bank addressed a letter to the commercial banks in September 1986, explaining 
the importance of the programme of land development being financed by thic 
land mortguge hanks and the relative merits of investment in their debentures 
as conpared to other types of securities. The commercial banks increased their 
support to the detentures of land mortgage banks from Rs, 0 . 93 crores in the 
Anancial year 1965 -66 to Rs. 3 . 85 crores in 1966 - 67 . 

104. During the year ended March 1967, central land mortgage banks issued 
ordinary debentures for Rs. 58 .02 crores , of which Rs. 4 . 37 crores were taken up 
by the Bank , while the State Bank , the Life Insurance Corporation , the State 
Governments and the Government of India subscribed Rs. 34 . 81 crores . The 
contributions from co -operative institutions were Rs. 13,34 crores and the balance 
Was taken up, among others , by commercial banks. The Bank also subscribed 
to the rural debentures issued by the central land mortgage banks to the extent 
of Rs. 1.83 crores in the agreed proportion ( Bank support: the public response ) 
of 8 : 7 . On June 30 , 1987 , the Bank s holdings in ordinary and rural ( includ 
ing special) debentures were Rs. 20 . 74 crores and Rs. 7 .20 crores, respectively . 


105 . During the year under report, 127 non -agricultural credit societies were 
included in the list of primary co - operative banks while 79 societies , 
earlier classified as primary co - operative banks, were excluded from the 
ligt. Further , four State co - operative banks were included in the list and one 
bank was deleted , bringing the total number of State co -operative banks to 29 
- as at the end of June 1987. The number of central co -operative banks was re 

duced from 382 to 381 due to amalgamation . As a result , the total number 
of co - operative banks brought under the Banking Regulation Act increased dur 
Ang the vear from 1,800 to 1.650. The latter consisted of 29 State co - operative 
banks, 381 central co -operative banks and 1240 primary Co - operative banks. 
Also , under the provision of Section 42 . twelve State co -onerative banks were 
included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act . 


SEC, 3 ( ii )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 /ASVINA 1, 1889 3493 


106 . The number of licensed co -operative banks ay on 30 June 1967 wap 
seveni consistlug af onle State Co - operative bank , three central co - operative 
banke and three newly registered primary co - operative banks all of which were 
issued licences during the year 1966 -67. Licences were also issued to eight co 
opertive banks for opening fifteen new places of business at various centres , 
whil . one application for such licence was rejected and one was withdrawn . 


107, ī view of the shortage of raw cotton and kapas and the sharp rise 
in their lces, the limited control imposed on advances of scheduled commercial 
banks against these commodities was extended to similar advances made by 
State and centrai co -operative banks. A directive was issued to all 
scheduled State co -operative banks on April 22, 1967 and , to all non 
Scheduled State co -operative banks and central co - operative banks on 
May 2 , 1967, restricting their advances against cotton and kapas to 
a percentage of such advances during or at the end of specified periods. 
Advances to co -operative cotton mills were later exempted from the provisions 
relating to ceiling requirement of these directives, while certain central Co 
operative banks in Gujarat which represented were given an extension of time 
for bringing down their advances, 


108. During the year, seventeen State Co -operative banks, 263 central co 
operative banks, and 178 primary co -operative banks were inspected 
on a statutory basis in terms of Section 35 of the Banking Regula 
tion Act , 1949 , of which 69 primary c ) - operative banks were inspected by the 
officers of the State co -operative banks on behalf of the Reserve Bank of India as 
provided for under Section 35 ( 1 ) of the Banking Regulation Act and the rest by 
the officers of the Reserve Bank of India . The inspection of the central land 
mortgage banks and apex handloom weavers co - operative societies continued to 
be done on a voluntary basis . Nine central land mortgage banks and three apex 
handloon weavers co - operative societies were inspected during the year. 


Co -operative Development 


109. The Bank s Standing Advisory Committee on Rural and Co - operativo 
Credit met thrice during the year under report and considered subjects 
such as the policy regarding industrial co - operative banks and allied matters 
and the medium -term loan policy of the Reserve Bank ( vide para 98 ). The 
Coinmittee was of the view that for becoming eligible for obtaining credit limits 
As well as a licence from the Reserve Bank of India , the industrial co - operative 
batiks should be operating in contiguous and compact areas, their individual 
membership should be gradually reduced and they should not undertake any 
non -banking business . The organisation of a new industrial co - operative bank , 
according to the Committee, will be justified if there is a sufficient rumber of 
industrial co -operatives of varied character in the area and the existing central 
Co - operative bank in the area is weak or is otherwise unable or unwilling to 
meet the credit needs of industrial co - operatives . Also , the new as well as the 
existing inustrial co-operative banks should be in a position to raise adequate re 
sources and function as viable units . The Committee has also suggested (i ) the 
constitution of a Working Group to study the question of ensuring adequate flow 
of funds for industrial financing through co - operative banks and ( i ) a study to be 
undertaken of advances against cotton and kapas by co - operative banks in Gujarat 
in the light of developments during the year . 


110. The Annual Conference of the Registrars of Co -operative Societies and 
the Conterence of State Ministers for Co - operation were held in New Delhi 
in June and October 1986, respectively . The Conference discussed subjects 
such as the provision of credit facilities for the High - yielding Varieties Por 
gramme, the crop loan system , the programme of revitalisation of primary tre 
dit societieg, the scheme of outright grants to special bad debt reserves of co 
operative banks and societies and the strengthening of consumers co - operatives . 


111 . The Informal Group on Institutional Arrangements for Agricultural 
Credit had recommended as a transitional arrangement, the establishment of 
agricultural credit corporations in the Eastern States, Rajasthan and the Union 


3494 THE GAZET ( E OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


[ PART ]I 


Territories of Manipur and Tripura where co - operative credit has made . compara 
tively little headway ( vide 1964 - 65 Report ) . 
ment of such corporations by the States and the Union Territories concerned , is 

A bill , providing for the establish 
ljkely to be introduced in Parliament as soon as possible . 

112 . Discussions were held , as in previous years, with the official and non 
official representatives of the co - operative movement in different States during 
March - May 1967. Along with basic issues , such as the progress in the re - organi 
sation of the primary credit structure on the basis of viability , important opera 
tional problems such as the prevalence of overdues , inadequacy of deposits and 
ineffective arrangements for supervision and audit were discussed . The follow 
up of these discussions is being pursued by the Agricultural Credit Department 
with a view to securing timely implementation of agreed decisions. 
Linking between Co-operative Credit and Marketing 

113. The integrated scheme of rural credit which has been under implementa 
tion following the recommendations of the All - India Rural Credit Survey Com 
mittee ( 1954 ) envisages a close co -ordination between co -operative credit and 
marketing particularly from the point of ensuring that credit provided for agri 
cultural production is recovered out of the sale proceeds of crops . The value of 
agricultural produce marketed by co - operatives increased from Rs. 300 crores in 
1964 - 65 to Rs. 360 crores in 1965 - 66 . Out of 2.01 lakh primary agricultural credit 
societies at the end of 1964 - 65 , 1. 25 lakh societies were affiliated to marketing 
societies, 

114. Upto the end of the Third Five Year Plan 12, 288 rural godowns and 
2 ,681 godowns of marketing societies were assisted under the co - operative plans; 
the storage capacity of these godowns when completed will be about 2 million 
tonnes . In addition , the co - operatives have from their own resources constructed 
about 1, 000 godowns at mandi level and 1 ,500 godowns in the rural areas. 
Agricultural Refinance Corporation 

115 . During 1966 - 67, the Agricultural Refinance Corporation sanctioned 15 
schemes relating to the development of land such as land reclamation and gojl 
conservation , different types of plantation crops like rubber, tea , coffee, coconut, 
etc ., and development of fisheries . The States to be benefited by these 15 schemes 
are Assam , Bihar , Kerala , Madras , Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Mysore: 
The total inancial outlay involved in these schemes is Rs. 10 . 53 crores and the 
Corporation s commitment amounted to Rs. 8 : 53 crores or 81 per cent of the outlay , 
Of the 15 schemes, 4 schemes are to be financed by central land mortgage banks, 
the refinance amounting to Rs. 5 . 29 crores to be provided in the form of subscrip 
tion to the special development debentures to be floated for the purpose ; 2 
schemes involving refinance of Rs. 1 . 28 crores are through a State co - operative 
bank and the remaining nine schemes involving Rs. 1. 96 crores of refinance are 
to be inanced by scheduled banks. The total number of schemes sanctioned by the 
Corporation during its four years of working is 42 , * involving a financial outlay 
of Rs. 43.29 crores, the Corporation s commitment being Rs. 35, 34 crores. 

116 . In addition to the schemes actually sanctioned , several schemes are under 
the consideration of the Corporation . These include schemes for land reclama 
tion , minor irrigation , wells and pump sets , development of Asheries , grapes etc . 


117. During the year under review the Corporation disbursed a sum of Rs. 1.92 
crores in the form of subscription to the special development debentures floated by 
the land mortgage banks under the schemes for the reclamation and development 
of land and soil conservation and Rs. 15 .60 lakhs to scheduled bankg under 
achemes for the development of tea and coffee plantations. The Corporation has 
so far disbursed Rs. 6 . 98 crores . 


118 . A few changes in the policy and procedures of the Corporation were 
made during the year . The Corporation had earlier decided that minor irriga 
tion schemes for the construction of wells and installation of pump sets would 
be considered by it for refinance facilities only if they involved a large financial 
outlay and were to be implemented through cooperative Irrigation societies in 
compact areas. The Corporation has since agreed to consider minor irrigation 
schemes implemented through individual efforts also , provided the schemes are 


The number of schemes and the fingncial outlay have been reduced since 8 schemes 
fanctioned to the State Bank of India and one scheme sanctioned to the Madhya Pradesh State 
Co -operative Land Mortgage Bank in the carlier years were withdrawn and refinance cancelled. 


Sec , ( L )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDLA ; SEPTEMBER 29 , 1967 /ASVINA 1, 18893495 


prepared on a project basis with assured inputs, technical aid and administrative 
and supervisory facilities from the concerned State Governments. The guide . 
lines on which such schemes should be formulated have been prepared and cir 
culated among the State Governments and the Central Land Mortgage Banks. 
These schemes are, however , not to replace the normal Anance provided for this 
purpose by the land mortgage banks. 

119 . As regards Its Anancial assistance through scheduled banks for schemes 
for the development of plantation crops, the Corporation had hitherto agreed 
to provide financial assistance for the setting up of a processing unit for a planta 
tion crop , only ( 1 ) it it formed an integral part of a composite scheme for the 
development of a plantation crop and (ii ) if financial assistance was also sought 
for in respect of the main development viz ., new planting /replanting or extension 
of plantation , The Corporation has since decided that refinance facilities might 
also be provided for setting up a processing unit alone for a plantation crop pro 
vided ( i) it is satisfied about the need therefor and (ii ) the activity is linked to 
* programme of development with assured finance from some other agency for 
the main development envisaged by an estate , 

120 . During the year under review , the Corporation brought out two booklets 
one each on Rubber and Tea Plantations for the benefit of planters , explaining 
In detail the terms and conditions and the procedure to be followed for obtaining 
refinance from the Corporation in respect ot schemes for the development of these 
plantation crops , 


IV . EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
121. Recognising the importance of education and training for raising the quality 
and standard of banking personnel, the Reserve Bank of India has been taking 
an active part in sponsoring , organising and conducting appropriate courses for 
different categories of banking personnel. The Bank has been providing training 
to the personnel of commercial and co - operative banks as well as to its owni 
staff . Further progress was made in this dirçction during the year under review . 
In order to meet the increasing demands of banking institutions for training 
facilities, the Bank decided to set up another college the third of its kind - for 
banking personnel to be located at Poona. The Governor of the Bank laid the 
foundation stone for the proposed college in May 1987. In 1954 , the Bank had 
set up Bankers Training College in Bombay for the benefit of the supervisory 
staff of commercial banks, while a second college was set up by the Bank in 
Madras in 1963, mainly for the training of its own junior supervisory staff , A 
further step that is being taken by the Reserve Bank is the institution of a courge 
in banking for the managerial personnel of urban co - operative banks. The Bank 
is already running courses for the managerial stall of State and central co -opera 
tive banks. With the extension of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 to regulate 
inter alia the banking operations of the State , central and primary co - operative 
banks, it has become imperative to provide adequate training facilities for the staff 
of the co - operative banks, so that they may become more proficient in the tech 
niques of banking . 

122. During the year , the Bankers Training College , Bombay, conducted four 
senior courses, three intermediate ones and one course each in foreign exchange 
and personnel and organisation . In addition , two courses were conducted at 
the College for the managerial staff of co - operative banks, in which 51 officials 
participated . So far , four such courses have been conducted in which 107 trainees 
have received training In response to requests from representatives of some 
banks, the Bank also organised a course of two weeks duration at the Bankers 
Trainine College. for the supervisory inspection staff of medium and small com 
mercial banks. This course covered techniques and procedures of Inspection and 
was attended by 25 bank officials. The total number of bank ofcials who received 
training during the vear was 328. Since the inception of the College in 1954 , 2 ,670 
candidates have received training in different courses. 

123 . As regards training facilities for its own staff, the College at Madras con 
ducted ( i) 5 general courses in which 221 employees participated , ( ii ) 3 inspection 
courses for 72 employees and ( ili ) induction courses for newly appointed unior 
officers grade II for different departments of the Bank and rural credit officers, 
for its Agricultural Credit Department. 

124 . The Zonal Training Centres at Bombay, Calcutta , Madras New Delhi and 
Nagpur conducted training courses for the clerical staff. Induction courses were 
conducted for the new entrants and advanced courses for the clerical staff at 
senior level. 


3496 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ ASVINA 1;*1889 * [PART II 


125 . A Hindi Section has been set up in the Department of Administration and 
Personnel at the headquarters in Bombay . The Section is engaged in the trans 
lation of some of the Bank s publications, departmental manuals , etc , 

126 . Hindi classes are also run on a voluntary basis for the benefit of the staff 
at certain centres. 

V . ACCOUNTS AND OTHER MATTERS 
127 . During the accounting year ended June 30 , 1967 , the Bank s income, after 
making statutory and other provisions, amounted to Rs. 85 - 12 crores as against 
Rs. 67 . 33 crores in the previous year. The expenditure , which included establish 
ment expenses and provision for sundry liabilities and contingencies , amounted 
to Rs. 25 . 12 crores, as against Rs. 17 .53 crores last year . The net profit available 
for payment to Central Government was Rs. 60 crores as against Rs. 50 crores paid 
last year. 

128. The contributions to the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Terin Opera 
tions ) Fund , the National Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisation ) Fund and the 
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operations ) Fund this year were R 16 
crores . Rs. 9 crores and Rs. 10 crores, respectively , as against Rs. 15 crores, Rs . 6 
crores and Rs. 5 crores, respectively , last year , 

129. The rise of Rs. 17 . 59 crores in income this year was mainly due to in 
creased earnings by way of discount on Treasury bills and interest on security 
holdings . The rise of Rs. 7 . 59 crores in expenditure is mainly under the head 
Agency Charges . There has also been some increase under “Establishment and 
Security Printing . The increase under the head Agency Charges is due to pro 
vision made for payment of commission at enhanced rate to the State Bank of 
India and its subsidiaries on turnover of Government transactions for the years 
1965 - 66 and 1966 -67 for which scales of commission have yet to be fixed , The 
increase under the head Establishment is mainly due to payment of dearness 
allowance at enhanced rates to Award Staff owing to the rise in index figures, 
revision of pay scales of the Class IV staff and increments granted to the staff 
in the time scales of pay . The increase under Security Printing is due to rise 
in the manufacturing cost of Bank Note Forms and increase in the indents for 
their supply . 
Auditors 

130. The accounts of the Bank have been audited by Messrs S . B . Billimoria 
and Co. of Bombay , Messrs Brahmayya and Co . of Madras and Messrs Ray and 
Ray of Calcutta , who are appointed by the Government of India as auditors of 
the Reserve Bank of India for the year 1966 - 67 by notification No . F . 8 (54 ) - - BC / 
66 dated October 5 , 1966 issued in exercisc of the powers conferred by Section 50 
of the Reserve Bank of India Act . 


The Contral Board 

131 . Shri P . C . Bhattacharyya retired as Governor of the Bank on the expiry 
of his term of office on June 30 , 1987. Shri M . R . Bhide relinquished his post of 
Deputy Governor of the Bank with effect from the close of business on January 
25 , 1967 to take over as Chairman of the Life Insurance Corporation of India , 
Dr. B . K . Madan also relinquished office as Deputy Governor with effect from 
the close of business on January 31 , 1967 to join the International Monetary Fund 
in the capacity of India s Executive Director. The Board wishes to place on re 
cord its high appreciation of the valuable services rendered by the retiring Gov 
ernor and the Deputy Governors , 


132 . Shrt L . K . Jha has been appointed as Governor of the Bank for a period 
of five years with effect from July 1, 1967. Shri A . Baksi was appointed as a 
Deputy Governor of the Bank for a period of five years as from January 24, 1967 
in the vacancy caused by the retirement of Shri C . S . Divekar . Shri J. J . Anjarla 
was appointed as a Deputy Governor for a period of three years with effect froin 
February 1 , 1967 vice Dr, B . K . Madan , Shri P . N . Damry was appointed as the 
fourth Deputy Governor for a period of five years. Shri Damry took up his 
appointment on February 13, 1967. 


133 Shri S . Jagannathan , I. C . S ., was nominated as a Director of the Central 
Board in terms of Section 8 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 with 
effect from November 17 , 1966 vice Shri S . Bhoothalingam Shri C . P . N . Singh 
and Prof. M . Mujeeb retired as Directors from the Central Board of the Bank on 


Sec. 3( ti)] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 23 , 1967/ ASVINA I, 1889 3497 


the expiry of their terms of office on January 14 , 1967, but both were re - nominat 
ed by the Government of India as Directors of the Central Board in terms of 
Section 8 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act , 1934 . Shri M . Sudarsanam 
resigned from the Central Board of the Bank with effect from December 30 , 1966 
and the consequential vacancy was Alled by the nomination of Shri L. Ramdave 
Row as a Director of the Bank from June 8 , 1987. Dr. Triguna Sen also resigned 
his Directorship of the Central Board with effect from March 13 , 1987 and the 
resultant vacancy is yet to be filled by the Government of India . 

134, Shri N . D . Nangia relinquished office as Executive Director with effect 
from the close of business on March 18 , 1967 to take over as Chairman , Industrial 
Finance Corporation of India , New Delhi, Shri D . N , Maluste has been appointed 
as Executive Director with effect from that date vice Shri Nangia 

135. Eight meetings of the Central Board were held during the year , four in 
Bombay, two in New Delhi and one each in Calcutta and Madras , The Com 
mittee of the Central Board held Afty - two meetings, of which two were held in 
Calcutta , one each in New Delhi and Madras and the rest in Bombay . 
Jeral Boards 

136 . Dr. Triguna Sen , a Member of the Eastern Area Local Board , resigned 
his membership from October 5 , 1966 and Shri A . K Sen was nominated in the 
consequential vacancy with effect from December 23 , 1966 . 

137. Shri M , Sudarsanam resigned his membership of the Southern Area Local 
Board with effect from December 23 , 1966, and the resultant vacancy was filled 
with effect from May 7 , 1967 by the nomination of Shri M , K , Ramachandra in 
terms of Section 12 ( 3 ) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
Opening and closing of Offices 

138 . The Note Cancellation and Verification Sections at Ludhiana , which had 
been functioning since February 1948 , were closed down on May 20 , 1967, and the 
staff and work of the sections were transferred to New Delhi office . 


Bank s Premises 
A . Office Premises 

139 . The construction of the Bank s new office building at Patna and the 
second phase of construction of the building at Kanpur is nearing completion , 
The first phase of construction of the office building (ie , Annexe ) at Hyderabad 
is in progress and that in respect of the office building at Bangalore will start 
shortly . 

140 . The work pertaining to the reclamation of the plots taken up by the Bank 
at the Backbay Reclamation , Bombay is in progress and the plans of the office 
building on these plots are being finalised . The proposed office buildings at 
Chandigarh , Bhubaneshwar, Trivandrum , Jaipur and Gauhati and the proposed 
sub -office buildings at Poona , Gorakhpur and Tiruchirapally continue to be in 
the planning stage . 

141. Land has been secured for the office building at Bhopal and for the sub 
office building at Ajmer. Proceedings for the acquisition of a plot for the office 
building at Ahmedabad are in progress , 


B . Residential Quarters 

142 . The construction of the additional building consisting of 8 officers 
quarters and 14 single rooms at Veer Savarkar Marg , Dadar, has since heen 
completed, 

143. The construction of additional officers quarters at Calcutta is nearing 
corr pletion . The construction of staff quarters at Singhi Park , Calcutta and 
Rajendranagar, Patna, is in progress. Staff quarters at Bangalore and Bhuba 
neshwar and additional staff quarters at Bombay , New Delhi and Madras are in 
the planning stage. Efforts are being made to acquire suitable land for staff 
quarters at other centres. 


C . Miscellaneous 

144. The construction of the Staff Training College and Hostel at Poona las 
been taken in hand . 


- 3498 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1987/ASVINA 1, 1889 


(PART II – 


Employer - Employee Relations 

145 . During the year, an agreement was reached between the representatives 
of the Bank and the representatives of the All- India Reserve Bank Workers 
Federation in regard to the revision of scales of pay and allowances and certain 
other conditions of service of Class IV employees. The agreement was signed by 
both porties on February 7 , 1967. As regards workmen employees in Class II 
And Class III. no agreement, could , unfortunately , be reache:1, despite prolonged 
discussions. The Employees Association , however, respondent constructively to 
the approach of the management and , instead of pursuing an agitational an 
proach , which would have affected adversely the normal functioning of the Bank 
and caused grave inconvenience to the public , agreed to have the points in dis 
pute referred to a mutually acceptable arbitrator . On the joint request of the 
Bank and the Association , accordingly , the Government of India , on February 
15 , 1987, referred the dispute to Shri T . L . Venkatarama Iyer , a retired Judge 
of the Supreme Court of India for arbitration under Section 10 ( A ) of the Indus 
trial Disputes Act, 1947 . The arbitration proceedings are at an advanced stage . 
The decisions of the Arbitrator, which will have been arrived at after the fullest 
consideration of all the material interests involved , will , it is hoped, reinforce 
- the traditions of mutual understanding and co -operation existing between the 
management and staff whose common task it is to render service to the public . 


RESERVE BANK OF INDIA 
BALANCE SHEET AS AT JUNE 30, 1967 

ISSUE DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs . 


p . 


Rs. 


p . 


Rs. 


P . 


Rs. 


p . 


115 , 89 , 24,794. 75 


Notes held in the Banking De 

partment , . . 
Notes in circulation 
Total Notes issued. . . 


33, 83, 12,471 . 00 
3052,30 , 35, 221. 09 


3035, 13, 47,672 . 00 


185, 41, 93,949 . 97 

- - - - - - - 


- 


Gold Coin art Bullion : 
( 1 ) Heli in ia dia . . . 

(6 ) Held outside India . 
Foreiga Securities . . 

Total . . . 
Rupee Coin 
Güvernment of India Rupee 

Securities . 
Interau Büls of Exchange and 

other Commercial Papsz . . 


302, 31,24 , 744 . 72 
68,90 ,63,625 .68 


· 2704 , 91 , 59 ,321 . 60 


SEC.3(1)]THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER4,1967/ASVINA},18803499 


Total Liabilities 


3 . 35 , 13 , 47, 692 . 00 


TotalAssets 


t 


. 


3086, 13, 47 ,692 . 60 


BANKING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIES 


ASSETS 


Rs. p . 
5,00,00,000 .00 
80 ,00,00 ,000 .00 


Rs. P . 
33 , 83, 12,471. 00 

81,504 : 00 
2 , 50,257 : 22 


Capital Paid -Up . . . . . . . 
Reserve Fund , : : in 
National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) 

Fuod 
National Agricultural Credit (Stabilisation ) Fund . 
National Industrial Credit (Long- Term Operations) 

Fund , . . . 


131,00 ,00 , 000 . 00 
25 ,00,00 , 000 . 00 


30, 00 , 00, 000 . 00 


265 ,94 ,60, 247 . 72 

21, 50 ,42, 934 -OI 
266,97,56 , 765 - 05 


ht 


Deposits : 
(9 ) Government 

(7) CentralGovernment 
(* ) State Governments . 


26, 36 00 ,000 .00 


2400THEGAZETTIOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER23,-1987/ASVINAI,1860[PAATII 


50,69,72 ,606 - 46 
12,14, 14 ,428 -34 


. 


. 


. 


Notes . . 
Rupee Coin 
Small Coin 
Bils Purchased and Discounted : 
(a ) Internal , , , . 
(6 ) Extemal 

(c ) Government Treasury Bills 
Balancts held Abroad 
Investments . . . 
Loans and Advances to : 

( ) Central Government 

(# ) State Government ! . . 
Loans and Advances to : 

) Scheduled Commercial Banks! . . . 
(61) State Co - operative Banks 
(öt) Others , 

, , 
Loans, Advances and Investments from National Agri 

cultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fund 
(a ) Loans and Advances to : 

State Governments . . . . . 
( ) State Co -operative Banks . 
(18 ) Central Land Mortgage Banks. . 
(b ) Investment in Central Land Mortgage Bank 

Debentures . . . . 
Loans & Advances from National Agricultural Credit 

(Stabilisation ) Fund. Loans and Adrences to State 
Co - operative Bants . 


. 


I1, 53 ,40 ,000 . 00 
141,52, 15 , 780 - 08 

2 ,43,80,000 . 00 


(6 ) Banks 

Scheduled Commercial Banks . . . 
(6 ) Scheduled State Co- operative Banks . . 
( ) Non - Scheduled State Co-operative Banks. . 
( 0) Other Banks 


147. 54 ,33 ,610 79 
8978 ,73, 755 . 51 
96 ,41,625 .59 
9 , 79 , 802 . 84 


28 ,33,43, 439.63 
15 , 41, 16,487 02 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


( ) Others . 
Bills Payable . 
Other Liabilities , . 


. 
. 
. 


319 ,03,61,429 . 35 
27, 99 , 53,415 * 13 
47, 79, 79,617 . 74 


7 , 19, 92 ,885 . 00 


8 ,81,85 ,806 - 75 


Loans, Advances and Investments from National In 

dustrial Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fund , 
(a ) Loans and Advance to the Development Bank 
(6 ) Investment in bonds /debeatures issued by the 

Development Bank . 
Other Assets . . . . . . . 


5x24, 15, 360 . 00 


So,8(U)] 


50, 91, 16 ,454 . 27 


Total Liabilities 


. 


. 


. 


. 


886 , 06 , 10 ,391 75 


Total Assets . 


. 


. 


. 


. 


886,06, 10,391-75 


Contingent fiability on partly paid sharesRs. 10,50001. 05. (Sterling Investment of £50, 000 /- converted @ Rs. 100 = 447619 ). 
Includes Cash and Short - Term Securities . 

Excluding Investments from the National Agricultural Credit (Long- Term Operations) Fund and the National Lodustrial Credit (Long - Term 
Operations) Fund . 

(H ) Includes £50 ,000 and U . S . $ 997 . soo held abroad . 
1 Excluding Loans and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long - Term Operations) Fud. 
1 Includes Rs. N1 advanced to Scheduled Commercial Banks against usance bills under Section 17 (4Xc) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 

• Exduding Loons and Advances from the National Agricultural Credit (Long- Term Operations) Fund and theNational Agricultural Credit ( Stabilisa 
tion ) Fund . 
G . BALASUBRAMANIAN , 
Chief Accountant. 

L . K . JHA , 

Governor . 
B . N . ADARKAR , Deputy Governor. 
A , BAKSI, 

Deputy Governor . 
J . J . ANJARIA , Deputy GoverTiOT , 

P . N . DAMRY, Deputy Governor . 
Datud , the 21st July , 1967 . 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER28,1907/ASVINA1,1889 


3901" 


PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 


FOR THE YEAR ENDED 


June 30, 1967 


jmc 30 , 1966 


June 30 , 1965 


INCOME 
Laterost, Discount, Exchange , Commission , etc . 


Rs. p. 
85, 12 , 17, 798 . 63 


Rs. p . 
6 7, 532, 34 ,502 47 


Rs . P . 
62,26,61,523 . 98 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


EXPENDITURE 


: 


Directors & Local Board Members ices and Eqpenses 
Auditors Fees . 
Reat, Takes Insurance,Lighting, etc. : : : 
La Charges . 
Postage and Telegraph Charges . . . 
Remittance of Treasure 
Stationery , etc. . 
Socurity Printing (Cheque, Note Formas, etc .) . 
Depreciation and Repairs to Bank Property 
Agency Charges . 
Contributions to Staff and Superannuation Funds : 
Miscellaneous Expenses. . . . . . 

Net available balance . . . . . 


10, 24,00, 952. 84 

67, 605 . 07 

303, 000 . 00 
58, 19 ,576 . 85 

14 , 708 .45 
8 , 50, 377 . 65 
44, 26 ,080 . 96 

16 , 15 ,830 . 06 
4 ,65,24, 897 . 71 

68,61, 357: 31 
7 , 83 ,59, 733 . 25 

7 ,32, 000 . 00 

35 , 13 , 774 . 50 
60,00,00,903 . 98 


8, 94 , 25,875 . 37 

71, 490 . 87 

30,000 . 00 
40 ,45 ,684 . 58 

48 , 332 . 67 
7 , 76 ,42543 
44,61, 098 . 57 
20 , 27 , 981 . 10 
3 , 94 , 18 , 299 . 90 

49,01, 584 . 56 
2 , 60 , 72 ,804 . 94 

7 , 32 ,000 . 00 
3242,547 . 34 


7 , 51,04:498 . 81 

63, 596 . 75 

30 ,000 . 00 
36 ,03 , 995 .68 

18 , 967 . 99 
5,38 ,765. 95 
41,41, 836 . 27 

14 , 04 ,875 . 10 
2 ,48 , 34 ,512 : 20 

47 , 86 ,406 . 15 
2 ,45 , 19 ,273 OS 

7 , 32 , 000 . 00 
28, 82, 031. 00 


3502THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER29,1987/AŠVINA1,1889 


. 


50 , 00,00 ,377 . 14 


48, 00, 00, 765- 03 


Total 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


85, 12 , 17 ,798 . 63 


67 ,52, 54 . 502 . 47 


63326,61, 523 .98 


Surplus payable to the Central Government. . 


(PartII 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


60,00, 00 ,903 . 98 


50,00, 003377 - 14 


48 ,00 ,00, 765-03 


RESERVE FUND ACCOUNT 


Sza.$() 


By Balance on 30th June, 1967 . . . 
By transfer from Profit and Loss Account . 

Total . . . . . 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


80 ,00,00, 000 . 00 

Nil 


80,00 ,00 ,000 . 00 


1 After making usual or necessary provisions in terms of Section 47 of theReserve Bank of India Act. 


L . K . JHA , 
B . N . ADARKAR , 
A , BAKSI, 
J. J. ANJARIA , 
P, N . DAMRY 


Governor . 
Deputy Governor . 
Deputy Governor . 
Deputy GOTETTIOT. 
Deputy Governor . 


G . BALASUBRAMANIAN , 

Ghid Accountant. 


REPORT OF THE AUDITORS 


TO THE PRESIDENT OF INDIA , 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER23,1967/ASVINA1,18803503 


We, the undersigned Auditors of the Reserve Bank of India, do hereby report to the CentralGovernment upon the Balance Sheet and Accounts of the 
Bank as at 30th June, 1967 

We have examined the above Balance Sheet with the Accounts , Certificates and Vouchers relating thereto of the Central Office and of the Offices at 
Calcutta, Bombay and Madras and with the Returns submitted and certified by the Managers of the other Offices and Branches , which Returns are incorporated 
in the above Balance Sheet , and report that where we have called for explanations and information from the CentralBoard such information and explanations 
have been given and have been satisfactory . In our opinion , the Balance Sheet is a full and fair Balance Sheet containing the particulars prescribed by 
and in which the assets have been Falued in accordance with the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 and the Regulations framed thereunder and is properly 
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Banks affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given 
to us , and as shown by the Books of the Bank . 


S . B . BILLIMORIA & Co ., 
BRAHMAYYA & Co ., 
ROY & RAY , 


Auditors. 


Dated , the 21st July , 1967. 


[No. F -3 (60)BC /67.1 
D . N . GHOSH , Dy. Socy. 


( Department of Economie Affairs ) 


New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 


NO . 339 , - Statement of the Afrin of the Rerere Bent of India is on the ist September 1967 . 

BANCING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIR 


Rs . 


ASTS 


Capital Paid UV 


5, 000 , 000 


Nota 


42 , 17, 92 , 000 


3804THẾGAZETTÉOFINDIA:SEPTÈMBER8,1907/ASVINAI,1800 


10 , 10 ,000 


Rupee Coin 
Small Coma 


Retente Fund 


80, 00 , 00 .000 


3,31,000 


M 


ogul Agricottorut Credit (Long 
Operations ) Fuod . 


Term 


Bik Purchased and Discounted - 

( a ) Intained 


131,00 ,00 .000 


(6 ) External 
(c) Gorenment Tremury B111s 


252 ,41,38,000 


25,00, 00 ,000 


National Agricultural Credit (Stubbutton ) Femd 
National Industrial Credit (Long Term Operatioos) 

Fond 


Balance Held Abrond 
Investmenys 
Lotos mod Advanca to l 


19, 76, 17,000 
217, 82, 95.000 


30,00,00 ,000 


in Coron GOTCTune 


(PartIt 


(0 ) State Governments 


. 


. 


56 : 46 ,88 ,070 


τροπι – 


( a ) GOTETIEDE 


6 , 99 ,95, 000 
156 ,63, 14 ,000 

3 ,07 ,80 ,000 


SQ.$(1M 


O Central Governect . 


. 


. 


. 


( 


State Governments 


. 


. 


. 


. 


28 ,32, 34 ,000 
1467 , 88 ,000 


(0 ) Banks 


7, 30,80,000 


Loans 60d 

Scheduled commercial Banat 
(6 ) Stute Co -operative Beant 

m Othas 
70 , 19 , 24,00 Lotos , Advou tod Loveruments from National Agricul 

tun ! Credit (Long Term Operation ) Fuodt 
5 , 11 ,49, 000 (a ) Loans and Advance to : 

O State Government 
( ) Sute Co - operative Banks 

( ) Central Land Mortgage Banka , 
(6 ) Lavestment in Ceatral Land Mortgage Bank Debentures 

Loans and Advances from National Agricultural Credit 
128,49 ,20 ,00X (Stabilisatica ) Pand : 

5 ,51,21,000 Lans and Advances to State Coopertoire Banks 
1, 06 ,41, 000 L0001, Advances and Lostituents from Nations) Lodutrid 
12, 85, 000 Credit Long Term Operations) Fund ;-- 

(a ) Loons and Adraous to the Development Bank 
293,7348, 000 ( ) lavestment in boodsidebcatures inated by the 

Development Bank 
36 , 95: 40 , 00C Other Assets 

: : 
39 , 32, 25 .000 
851,52, 23,000 

Rupees . . 


(1) Scheduled Comercial Banks . . 
ü ) Schedord State Co- operitive Baolo 

) Non - Sabeduid State Co -operative Bank 
( 1 ) Other Benbos . . . 


5,1L, 


5 ,24 , 15 , 000 


(c) Others 

81. Payable 
Other Libilities 


31,91,35,000 


. 


. 


. 


. 


. 


THEGAZETTEOFINDLA:SEPTEMBER28,1967/ASVINA1,18893505 


Rupee 


851, 52 ,23, 000 


Loclades Csab ad Sbort - term Securities . 
* * Excluding investments from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operatious) Fand and the National Industrial Gredit ( Long Ten 

Operuions ) Fund . 
Escluding L0404 ad Adriace from the Natiooal Agricultura Credit ( Long Term Operaciona ) Pand , bat induding temporary overdrafts to 

State Governments . 
flatuda RL NIL Ltdood to scheduled commodal banks against annet bill under section 1714Xc) of the Reserve Bank of India Act. 
* * Erdoding Lawns and Advances from the National Agriculturai Credit (Long Term Operations ) Funded the Nations Agriculturu Credit (Stabili 

sattica ) Food 
Dated the 6th day of September, 1967 . 


- 


TI 


u ist day of September 1967. 


AD Abuit pursuant to the Reserve Bank or lo 11a Act, 1934, for be weak ada 

LÆDE DEPARTHUNT 


LIABILITIES : 


Rs. 


Rs, 


ANET 


Rs . 


Rs. 


Notes beld in the Banking Departement , 
Notes in circulation 

Total Notes issued . . . 


42, 17, 92 ,000 
2893,42, 96, 000 


Gold Coin and Bullion - 

4 ) Held in India , 
(6 ) Held outside India 


115, 89 , 25 ,000 


2935 ,60 , 58 , 000 


166 , 42 ,00 .000 


Foreiga Securitia . . . , 

TOTAL . 
Ropee Coin . . . . 
Gorement of India Rupee Securities 
Latemal Bills of Exchange sod 
otha commercial peper 

TOTAL ASSITI 


282 ,31,25, 000 

78, 38 ,04,000 
2574,91,59 ,000 


3806THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER28,1907/ASVINA1,1889 


2935, ( 3 ,83, 000 


2935, 60 , 88, 000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES . 
Dated the 6th day of September 1967. 


B . N . ADARKAR 
Dy. GoTeroor , 
(Na F .343 )-BC /67.] 


[PART11 


New Delhi, the 14th September 1987 


Sec,8(41)] 


SO. 3400, - Statement of the Affairs of the Reserve Best of Lodia is on the 8th September, 1967. 


TAN ING DEPARTMENT 


LIABILITIS 


R . 


Assen 


Cerita ! ? . d Co 


5 , 00 , 000 . 00 


Notes 


· 


· 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


· 
. 


. 


. 


Rupet Cosa 
Sraall Codi 


1904,64,030 

2 ,40 . 200 
3, 68 , 000 


Reserve Fuad 


$ 6 ,00 , 00.000 


Natiu 

virdi (Lony 
Term Opera : 0 % Fuod 


131, 20 ,00 000 


Bills i urchard Low Discovared 

(a) Internal 
6 ) Enernal 

14) Go anezt Treasary sill : 
Balai Des Held Abrang 


National Article Credit 

(talls 310 , pur 


296, 13 , 26 , 000 
20, 98 ,82,000 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER28,1967/ASVINA1,18893507 


25 , 20 , , 0 ,000 


, 


, 


, 


NetLidl indist Cra . (Long T 17 
V ilnas) Firo 


30 ,3300 , 000 


. 


190, 87,01, 000 


Izre Depts * * 
LEI 3- d Adruces to - 

(i, Central Govern diem ! 
4 . Sig ? Gyverrm :nts @ 


20 , 27 ,54,000 


Depusite 


Lcard and ndance to 

Suboduled ccmircial Butt 
1 ) State Co -operativi Bantot 
Thin Ottere 

. . 


. 
. 
. 


(a ) Gitmedia 


. 
. 


. 
. 
. 


. 
. 


7,56 ,80 ,oro 
164,11,31,000 

2, 75 ,80, 000 


Kit Ceri ta ! Go em 


3,05 , 700 


Ry, 


out TS 


-- - - - 


- 


TILIII 

- - -- - 


10 


Aly 


- 


It - 


TIVO 


Agr cultural 


13, 2 W 


PE 


e dya 


! 


28 , - 2 33 " * 
17, 18 ,34 , 705 


7, 32 , 5 . WO 


is 


1921 . tuit : 


asac Coe ative ox . 


2 ,55, 0 , Ą 


de Sevne nas 
I 

C3 . surtitive Boix 
i . C pXp8* ve Banke 

3 


139, 10 , 0 . . 
F 3 v7 
91, 7 , 
11 : , 


--- 


-=--=== 3508THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER29,1967/ASVINAI,1889 


( 


110 


272 ,28, is 3 


Antares to he eyel " 11 


5 ,24,157 


1 


atures is in 191 


Ir 


7 


23 


11 PV 
Otheri 111* 


30 17 19 , 5 

o 
25. 35 ,71, 02 Outer Asses 


* 1,85,25 Cop 
817 ,51 ,71 00 


Rupee 


817 ,51,71 ,00 


RIS 


* Includes . ac .d " - Tec Securities , 
* * Excluding inoin t s from the National Agricultural urtant (Long T . rma Operations) Fund and the National Litc:lal cadit ( Long Term 

0 , C - ons Fuse 
@ Erclu ling 475 * * Alvances from the National Agr.caturel Credit ( Long Term Obat Jo3) Fant, but iacluding temporary overdrafts to 

State Governments . 
Inclui s RS VIL advanced to schedul: 1 CD Barcial 51133 a310 1 039102 bills under Sec jos 17 (4) (c) of th : Reserve Bank of India Act , 
tExclu ting 1 Cans sro Advances from the National Agricultural Credit ( Long Term Operations) Fund and the National Agricultura Credit (Stabuli 

sation ) Fund 
Dated the 13th day of Spetember , 1667. 


[PARTII 


Aa Accouct pursuant to the facrte Bank 


Inda Ach, 1934 , for the week ended the 8th day of September, 1967 
LAU . DEPARTMENT 


St.(11)] 


LIABILITIES 


Re. 


Re 


ASSETS 


Re. 


Notes held in the Banking Depart 

ment 
Notes in Circulation : 1 

Total Notes issued . 


19 , 04,64,000 
2954,51, 93, 000 


Gold Coin ud Bullioa : 
( a ) Held in Lodia 

) Hold outside Lodia 


. 


. 


2973 ,5657,000 


166,42, 00, 000 


Foreigo Securities . . . . 

TOTAL . . . 
Ropee Coin . . . . . 
GOTS of Iris Rupee Securities 
Inernal Bith of Excánge ad otnner 

conoxrjal paper . . . 

TOTAL ISSITS . . . 


282,31,25,000 

76 ,33 ,73 ,000 
2614 ,91,59 ,000 


TOTAL LIABILITIES 


2973156 , 57 ,000 


2973 ,56 ,57 ,000 


Dated the 23th day of September 1967. 


B . N . ADARKAR, 

Dy. Governor. 
[No F . 343 )- BC /67. ) 


THEGAZETTEOFINDIA:SEPTEMBER23,1967/ASVINA1,18893509 


- 


- 
- 
- 
- 
- 


- 
- 
- 


- 


- 


510 THE GAZŁ STE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 29, 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 


[PART IL 


8 . 0 . 3401, - - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 53 of the Banking 
Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949 ) , the Central Government, on the recommenda 
won of the Reserve Bank of India , hereby declare that the provisions of section 9 
of the said Act shall not apply to the New Bank of India Ltd ., New Delhi, in 
respect of the agricultural lands measuring about 4 ,200 square yards held by it 
At Batala Road , Amritsar , till the 5th September, 1968. 

(No. F . 18 (17 )-BC /87.) 


CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 11th September 1987 
g . o . 3402 . In this Department Notification s .O . 2995 , dated the 25th August, 
1967, for the words " till the 1st August, 1986 ." , read till the 1st August, 1968. 

(No. F . 15 ( 18 ) -BC / 67. ] 
V . SWAMINATHAN , Vnder Socy , 


( Dopartment of Revenue and Insurance ) 

Estate DUTY 
New Delhi, the 11th September 1967 


8 . 0 1403. - The Central Government hereby renews the appointment of the 
undermentioned Valuers whose names were previously published as S . O . 2580 in 
Part II, Section 3 ( ii ) of the Gazette of India , dated 1st August , 1964 hereto given 
in Schedule - 1 & II for a further period oť five years with effect from 12th July . 
1967 and the 18th July, 1967, l espectively , 
Schedule - 1 contains the names of persons whose present term of appoint 

ment expired on 11th July , 1967. 
Schedule -2 contains the names of persons whose present term of appoint 

ment expired on 17th July , 1967. 
2 . The scale of charges for the remuneration of Valuers appointed by the 
Central Government for valuing any property shall be as fixed below and no 
such Valuer shall charge a fee at a scale higher than the scale su lixed : 
Provided that where two or more properties are required to be valued : 
( i) by a Committee of Arbitration or by a third Valuer in pursuance of a 

single order , or 
( ü ) by a Valuer, in pursuance of a single reference made by a Controller 

of Estate Duty or at the instance of an accountable person , i 
all such properties shall be deemed to constitute a single unit of property for 
the purposes of fixing the fee payable to the Committee or the Valuer , as the 
case may be : 

Provided further that where the same property or properties , required to be 
valued by the game Committee of Arbitration or , as the case may be, by the 
same Valuer , 18 or are common to more than one case and the valuation relates 
to the same date , the Committee of Arbitration or the Valuer shall be entitled 
to charge fees at the scale fixed below only in one case and in the renaining case 
or casou the said Committee of Arbitration or Vuluer shall be entitled to charge fees 
not exceeding rupees one hundred per case. 

Scale of Charges 
On the first Rs. 50 ,000 of tle property so valueil . 

1 % of the value . 
On the next Rs. 1,00, 000 of the property so vuluct. 

% of the value. 
On the balance of the property so valucd . . . . 

1 % of the value. 
3. Notwithstanding anything contained in paragraph 2 , the remuneration pay 


11 , - 


- 


Sec , 3(1 )] 


THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : SEPTEMBER 28 , 1967 / ASVINA I, 1889 3511 


APPENDIX 


SCHEDULE - I 


Sl. No . 


Name 


- Address . 


I. Engineers /Surveyors / Architects 
I Shri Noorani, K . A ., B . E . (Civil) , M . I. E . c /o M /s. Karim Noorani & Co ., 
. (Ind.) 

Mustafa Building, 
Sir P . M . Roud , Fort, . 

Bombay . 
2 Shri Rathod , M . P , 

c / o .M / 8 . M . P . Rathod & Co ., 
B . E . (Civil) , M . I. E . ( Ind .) , 

6 , Union Bank Building, 3rd Floor, 
M . R . S . H . (Lond .) M . A . S . C .E . (N . Y .) Apollo Street, Fort, 

Bombay - I . 
3 Shri Anand , R , G . 

c /o M /s. Anand Aptay & Jhabvala , 
G . D . (Arch .), F . I. I.A . 

Architects & Town Plannery, 
3 / 90 , Connaught Circus, 

New Delhi, 
4 Shri Kalra , K .R . 

L - 20 , South Extension - II , 
B . A . (Hons.), C . E ., M . I. E . 

New Delhi- 16 , 
5 Shri Venkatesh Rao , C . R ., B . Sc., R . E ., " Osmanla Buildings" 
A . M . I. E . 

Narasimharaja Road , 
Bangalore - 2 . 


II, Accountants. 


I Shri Chakravorli, N ., M . A ., F . C .A . 


2 


Shri Daytur, D . N ., F . C . A . 


c /o M /s . N . Chakravorti & Co ., 

Chartered Accountants , 
8 / 2 , Hastings Street , 
Room No. 30 , 2nd Floor , 

Calcutta - I . 
co M /s . D . N . Dastur & Co ., 

No. 140 -44. sth Floor , 
New Stock Exchange Building , 
Apollo Street, Fort, 

Bombay - 1 . 
c /o M /s . J . R . Kanga & Co ., 

Wadia Building , 
123 , Mahatma Gandhi Road , 

Tort, Bombay - 1. 
c /o M /s . N . D . Kapur & Co., 

Chartered Accountants , 
Flat 2 - A , ShankarMarket, 
Connaught Circus , 
New Delhi- 1. 


3 Shri Kanga, J. R ., H . CA. 


4 Shri Kapur, N . D ., F .C .A . 


SCHENŲLF [ 


S1, No. 


Name 


Address 


Engineers/ Surveyors/ Architects 
T Shri Joglekar , P . G ., 

27 , New Palasia , 
B . E . (Bom .), M . I. E . ( Ind.) 

Indore . 
2 Shri Mahal, B . S ., 

Village Hangoli, 
M . I. E . ( Inul. ), A . M . I . E . E . 

P . O . Mustafabad , 

District Ambala . 
3 Shri Shah , P . C ., 

Dandiwala Nivas , 
B . E . (Civil ) 

Ashapuri Road, 
Navsari. 


[No. 18 / F . No. 8 / 46 / 67 - E .D . ) 

G . R . HEGDE Dy. Secy. 


3512 THE GAZETTE OF INDIA ; SEPT , 29, 1967/ ASVÍNA 1, 1889 (Part II -SEC, 3(1X 


(Departuient of Revenue and Insurance ) 

ORDER 

STAMPS 

New Delhi, the 23rd Septeinber 1087 
S . O . 3404 . - - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause ( a ) of sub - gection 
( 1 ) of section 9 of the Indian Stamps Act, 1899 ( 2 of 1899 ) , the Central Govern 
ment hereby reduces , one - half, the stamp duty chargeable under the said Act 
on mortgages without possession by the Industrial concerns in the Union Terri 
tories of Delhi and Chandigarh in favour of the Delhi Financial Corporation . 
2 . This order shall be deemed to have taken effect from 1st April 1987. 

(No. 9- 87 - F . No . 1/47 /87- Cur. VII - Stamps.] 

M . S . SUBRAMANYAM , Under Secy . 


(Departmont of Revenue and Insurance) 

CORRIGENDUM 

New Delhi, the 18th September 1967 
S . O . 3405.- - In the Notification No. 5. O . 2998 dated 24th August, 1907 published 
in Part II — Section 3 – Sub - section ( ii ) of the Gazette of India dated 2nd 
September , 1967 at Page 3141 for " Shri Sripati Chatterji " read " Shri R . K . 
Malhotra ." 

[No . 102 ( F .No . 16 / 14 /08- ITB ).) 

WASIQ ALI KHAN , Dy. Secy . 


+ 


PRINTED IN INDIA BY THE GENERAL MANAGER , GOVERNMENT OF INDIA PRRAL . 
NEW DELHI AND PUBL.19HED BY THE MANAGER OF PUBLICATIONS , DELHI, 1967 


