REGD . GOA - 5 


Panaji, 14th February, 1985 (Magha 25, 1906 ) 


SERIES I No. 46 


OFFICIAL 


GAZETTE 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA , DAMAN AND DIU 


GOVERNMENT OF GOA, DAMAN 

AND DIU 
Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms 

Personnel Division 


3. Method of recruitment, age ümit and other 
qualifications. - The method of recruitment to the 
said posts, age limit , qualifications and other matters 
connected therewith shall be as specified in columns 
5 to 13 of the said Schedule , 


Notification 


1 / 2,81-PER 


4. Disqualification . --- No person who has entered 
into or contracted a marriage with a person having 
a spouse living or who, having a spouse living , has 
entered into or contracted a marriage with any 
person , shall be eligible for appointment to the ser 
vice : 


es 


In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso 
to Article 309 of the Constitution , read with the 
Government of India , Ministry of External Affairs 
Notification No. ` E.7 ( 11 ) / 72 -Goa dated 25-7-1963 
and in supersession of the existing recruitment rules 
for the posts , the Lieutenant Governor of Goa , 
Daman and Diu hereby makes the following rules 
relating to recruitment to the General Central Ser 
vice Group B Gazetted posts in the Institute of 
Psychiatry and Human Behaviour, under Government 
of Goa , Daman and Diu , namely : 


Provided that the Government may , if satisfied 
that such marriage is permissible under the personal 
law applicable to such person and the other party 
to the marriage or that there are other grounds for 
so doing, exempt any person from the operation of 
this rule . 


1. Short title , application and commencement . 
( 1 ) These rules may be called the Government of 
Goa , Daman and Diu , Institute of Psychiatry and 
Human Behaviour , General Central Service Group B 
Gazetted posts Recruitment Rules , 1985 . 


5. Power to relax . - Where the Government is 
of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so 
to do , it may, by order , for reasons to be recorded 
in writing and in consultation with the Union Public 
Service Commission , relax any of the provisions of 
these rules with respect to any class or category 
of persons . 


( 2 ) Application . These rules shall apply to the 
posts specified in Column 1 of the Schedule to these 
rules (hereinafter called as the " said Schedule " ) . 


( 3 ) They shall come into force from the date of 
publication in the Official Gazette . 


6. Saving. ---- Nothing in these rules shall affect 
reservations, relaxation of age -limit and other con 
cessions required to be provided for Scheduled Castes , 
Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of 
persons in accordance with the orders issued by the 
Central Government from time to time in that 
regard . 


2. Number , classification and scales of pay . - 
The number of posts, classification of the said posts 
and the scales of pay attached thereto shall be as 
specified in columns 2 to 4 of the said Schedule : 


By order and in the name of the Lieutenant 

Governor of Goa , Daman and Diu . 


Provided that the Government may vary the 
number of posts in Column 2 of the said Schedule 
from time to time subject to exigencies of work . 


G. H. Mascarenhas , Under Secretary (Personnel) . 


Panaji, 31st January , 1985 . 


SCHE DULE 


490 


Name of the 

post 


No of 
posts 


Classifi- Saale of 
cation 


Whether selection 

post. ornon -selection 

post 


Age limit 
for direct 
recruits 


Whetherbenefitof 

addedyearsof serviceadmissible underrule30ofthe 
C.C.S.(Pensión) 

Rules,1972 


Educational and 
other qualifications 
required for direct 

recruits 


Whetherage&Edu cationalQualifica 

tionsprescribed forthedirectrecruit 


UỊAddetil 


thecaseofpro 

motees 


Period 
of pro 
bation 
if any 


In case of re 
Method of recruitment cruitment by 
whether by direct 

promotion /de. 
recruitment or by 

putation / 
promotion or by 

/ transfer, 
deputation / transfer , 

grades from 
and percentage of 

which promo. 
the vacancies to 

tion /deputa 
be filled by various 

tion / transfer 
methods 

is to be made 


If a D. P. C. exists , 
what is its com 

position 


Circumstancesin whichUnionPublic ServiceCommission istobeconsulted 

inmaking 
recruitment 


pay 


1 


2 


3 


(6a ) 


10 


13 


12 


NO 


N.A. 


Ni A. 


Two 
years 


By direct recruit 

ment. 


2. Assis 

tant 
Phar 
maceu 
tical 
Che 
mist , 


1 General Rs. 550 
( 1985 ) Central -25-750 
Subject: Service -EB - 30 .. 
to va- Group 

-900 . 
riation B 
depen Non 
dent on -Gazet 
work ted . 
load . 


any of the 


N.A. Not exceed 

ing 30 years 
(Relaxable 
for Govern 
ment ser 
vants upto 
5 years in 
accordance 
with the ins . 
tructions 
or orders 
issued by 
the Central 
Govern 
ment) , 
Note : The 
crucial date 
for determin 
ning the age 
limit shall 
be the clos 
ing date for 
receipt of 
applica 
tions from 
candidates 
in India 
(other than 
those in An 
daman & 
Nicobar 
Islands and 
Lakshad 
weep ). 


of 


Group B D.P.C. Consultation 
( for considering con with the 
firmation ) . 

Commission 
1. Chief Secretary - necessary 
Chairman . 

while mak 

ing direct re 
2. Administrative Se 

cruitment 
cretary Member . 

and amend 
3. Head of Depart- ing /relaxing 

merit Member 
Note : The Proceed- provisions of 
ings of the D.P. C. these rules . 
relating to confirma 
tion shall be sent to 
the Commission for 
approval. If however , 
they were not ap 
proved by the Com 
mission a fresh meet 
ing of the DP. C. to 
be presided over by 
the Chairman or a 
Member of the U.P. 
S. C. shall be held . 


. 


Essential : 
i ) B. Pharm . degree of 

a recognised Univer 

sity or equivalent. 
ii ) 3 years experience 

in a reputed Phar 
maceutical concern , 
Govt. undertaking or 
Hospital having more 
than 500 beds, of 
manufacturing medi 
cines / drugs and su 
pervision Phar. 
macy Service . 
Note 1: Qualifications 
are relaxable at the disa 
cretion of the U. P. S. C. 
in case of candidates 
otherwise well qualified . 

The qualifica 
tion ( s ) regarding expe 
rience is / are relaxable 
at the discretion of the 
U. P.S. C. in the case of 
candidates belonging to 
Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes if, at 
any stage of selection , 
the U. P. S. C. is of the 
opinion that sufficient 
number of candidates 
from these communities 
possessing the requisite 
experience are not likely 
to be available to fill up 
the vacancies reserved 
for them . 

Desirable : 
i ) M. Pharm . degree of 

a recognised Univer 

sity or equivalent. 
ii ) Knowledge of Kon 

kani and / or Marathi. 


Note 2 : 


SERIESINo.46 


M.com 


14TH FEBRUARY , 1985 (MAGHA 25 , 1906 ) 


491 


Industries and Labour Department 


Notification 


18 / 2 / 83- ILD 


9 


In exercise of the powers conferred by section 16 
of the Cinematograph Act , 1952 (Central Act 27 of 
1952 ) read with the Government of India , Ministry 
of Home Affair s Notification No. GI/Goa / 19 / 28 /63 
-UTL dated 16th January , 1985 , the Lieutenant Go 
vernor of Goa, Daman and Diu hereby makes the 
following rules so as to further amend the Goa , 
Daman and Diu Cinematograph Rules , 1965 , namely : 


1. Short title . These rules may be called the 
Goa , Daman and Diu Cinematograph (Amendment ) 
Rules , 1984 . 


2. Insertion of new Part IX A. In the Goa , Daman 
and Diu Cinematograph Rules , 1965 (hereinafter 
called the " principal rules " ) after Part IX , the fol 
lowing new Part IX A shall be inserted , namely : - 


Provided that if the Licensing Authority is sa 
tisfied that provisions of these rules have not been 
fulfilled or it is not in the interest of the health 
and safety of the public to grant a licence , he may 
refuse the grant of the licence applied for and 
communicate to the applicant the reasons for such 
refusal. 

Provided further that nothing in sub - rules ( 2 ) 
and (3 ) shall apply in the case of video exhibition 
provided in the transport vehicles . 

(4 ) The Licensing Authority while granting 
or renewing the licence in Form G shall fix the 
maximum number of persons to be admitted at a 
time and also the maximum rates of admission 
allowed . 

(5 ) The licence may be granted or renewed for 
a period not exceeding one year. 

107. Inspection . --- ( 1 ) The Electricial Inspector 
shall before issuing report under sub- rule ( 2 ) of 
Rule 106 , inspect the installations in the premises 
where public exhibition of films on video is sought 
to be made and satisfy himself that appliances and 
the installations are suitable and in order and 
meets the requirements of the rules in this part . 

( 2 ) The Health Officer shall before submitting 
the report under sub- rule ( 2 ) of rule 106 inspect 
the said premises to satisfy himself that the pro 
visions relating to public health , ventilation , sani 
tation and the like are adequate. 

(3 ) Any certificate issued by the Electrical Ins 
pector or the Health Officer shall be valid for a 
period of one year . 

108. Conditions to be satisfied for grant of li 
cence under this part. ( 1 ) The distance between 
the video screen and the first row of seats shall 
be not less than 3 mts and no person shall be 
admitted within such space . 

( 2 ) The distance between the existing perma 
nent or semi-permanent or temporary cinemas and 
the Video Public Exhibition shall not be less than 
100 mts . 


Part X A 


Special provisions applicable to the public exhibi 
tion of films on video . 


105. Licensing of exhibition of Films on video 
( 1 ) A person who intends to exhibit films on video 
to the public shall make an application to the Li 
censing Authority in Form F for grant or rene 
wal of a licence for such public exhibition of 
film on video accompanied by the treasury receipt 
for the payment of fees specified below : 

(a ) Fees for grant or renewal of licence for 
a year or less shall be Rs. 100 / - upto 50 seats 
and Rs. 200 / - upto 100 seats . 

( b ) Fees or grant or renewal of Electrical 
and Fire Certificate shall be Rs . 100 / - per 
annum . 

( 2 ) The application for renewal of licence 
shall be made two months before the expiry 
of the licence sought to be renewed . 

106. Procedure to be followed by licensing au 
thority . - ( 1 ) On receipt of an application under 
Rule 105 , the licensing authority shall, if the ap 
plication is not in order , return the same to the 
applicant for nesubmission within the period of 
60 days , failing which the application shall be 
treated as rejected . 

( 2 ) If the application is in order , the licensing 
authority shall obtain the reports of the Electrical 
Inspector and the Health Officer of the Directo 
rate of Health Services having charge of that di 
vision in which the place or premises where the 
publc exhibition of films on video is sought to be 
undertaken is situated . 


( 3 ) The distance between the Video Centre and 
another Video Centre shall not be less than 100 
metres . 


(4 ) The Licensing Authority may in consulta 
tion with the Health Officer require extractors , 
exhaust fans, ceiling fans or other means of 
artificial ventilation to be provided . 

(5 ) There shall be provided one W.C. and one 
Urinal for every 50 persons and less for exclusive 
use of each sex . 


( 3 ) On receipt of the reports referred to in 
sub - rule ( 2 ) above, if the licensing authority is 
satisfied that adequate precautions have been ta 
ken in the place to provide for the safety of the 
persons attending exhibition therein , he shall 
grant or renew the licence in Form G ? with or 
without adding additional condition , thereto con 
sistent with the provisions of these rules , as he 
may deem fit in the interest of health and safety 
of public . 


(6 ) There shall be atleast two door ways fitted 
with doors to open outwards . 

( 7) Sufficient drinking water shall be provided 
in such manner as may be specified by the Li 
censing Authority . 

(8 ) The number of persons to be admitted into 
any part of the auditorium shall be determined 
by calculating at the rate of 20 persons per 9 
sq . metres of floor area after exclusion the area 
for entrance , passage , gangways , stage and all 
places to which the public are not admitted . 

( 9 ) There shall be intervening space of atleast 
0.35 metres between the back of one seat and 


492 


SERIES I No. 46 


12. Benefit to any particular locality or localities to be 

afforded by tħe opening of a new place of video an 
hibition . 


Dated . 


Signature of applicant 


FORM G 


Licence for exhibition under the God , Damaul and Die 

Cinematograph Rules , 1965 


font of the seat immediately behind measured 
between perpendiculars . 

( 10 ) There shall be a passage of one metre in 
width for every 10 rows of seating accommoda 
tion . 

( 11 ) All the cables , wires used shall be of ISI 
grade and the wiring shall pass through conduit 
pipes only . 

( 12 ) There shall be a separate circuit controlled 
by a suitable linked switch for the supply of 
electricity taken to the Video hall . 

( 13 ) Three pin plugs with the third pin effec 
tively connected to earth shall be used . 

( 14 ) Separate circuits shall be provided for 
lights, fans and other equipment respectively . 

( 15 ) Video films shall not be exhibited in a 
totally dark room or hall. A dim light of 25 watts to 
40 watts bulbs shall be kept burning throughout 
the exhibition of films. 


Name and address of licensee . 
If the licensee is not the owner of the place or building 

the name and address of the owner thereof . 
Situation of the place or building . 
Area of the place of building in square feet. 
Whether the place of building is to be used during the day 

or during the night or both 
Date of last inspection by the Electrical Inspector ( or an 

Officer appointed to assist the Electrical Inspector ) . 
Special conditions, if any, on which the licence is granted 
Period for which the licence is to be in force . 
Fees paid . 
Maximum number of persons permitted in each part of 
the auditorium : 
In the first class 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 
In the 

Persons 
Total Persons 
Conditions of Licence . 


( 16 ) One portable fire extinguisher of Co2 or 
CTC or D.P.C. type of 1 kg . capacity and one 
bucket (9 litres ) filled with sand shall be pro 
vided ." . 

3. Insertion of new forms. After form E 
appended to the principal rules , the following form 
shall be inserted ; namely : - 


9 


" FORM F 


This licence is granted subject to the provisions of the Cine . 
matograph Act. 1952 and Goa , Daman and Diu Cinemato . 
graph Rules , 1965. It is also subject to the following condi 
tions. The terms and conditions of the licence , as inserted , 
may be modified or added to at any time during the cur 
rency of the licence : 


( Rule 17 ) 


Application 


1. Full name of the applicant , 
2. Address of the applicant. 


Village taluka 

district 
3. Status and previous experience of the applicant. 
4. Place where the video show is proposed to be located , 

survey number of numbers of the plot or plots . 


1. This licence does not exempt the licensee or his servants 
or agents from taking out any other licence required by or 
otherwise complying with any other law or rule or bye -law 
made thereunder . 

2. ( a ) The licensee shall not exhibit or permit to be exhi 
bited any film other than a film which has been certified as 
suitable for public exhibition under the Cinematograpı Act , 
1952 and which , when exhibited displays the prescribed mark 
of that authority , and has not been altered or tempered wită . 
in any way since such maric was affixed thereto . 

(b ) The licensee shall not exhibit , or permit to be exhibited , 
in the place in respect of which this licence is given , to any 
person who is not an adult , any film which has been certified 
by an authority constituted under section 3 of the Cinemato 
graph Act, 1952 , as suitable for public exhibition restricted 
to adults . 


Village 


taluka 


district 


Explanation , This condition shall not be construed as : 
prohibiting the exhibition of a film , in respect of which an U 
Certificate has been granted, to children in arms below . the 
age of three . 


5. Site plan drawn to a scale of not less than one fortieth 

of an inch to a foot covering an area upto ( 183 metres ) 
from the boundaries of the proposed site showing : 
( i) the position of the proposed premises in relation 

to any adjacent premises and to the public 
thoroughfare upon which the site of such premises 

abuts ; and 
( ii) thatched sheds, if any , in the neighbourhood ; 
6. Possession by the applicant of other places , if any 

licensed under the Act : 
( i ) whether in the same locality or elsewhere ; 
( ii ) whether at the time of applying for licence or at 

any previous time. 
7. Distance by public road of the proposed site to the: 

( i) nearest video show centre ; 

( ü ) nearest permanent or temporary Cinemas . 
& . Interest of the public generally likely to be served by 

the location of the video . 


1 . 


( c ) The licensee shall not display or cause to be displayed , 
any photograph picture or poster which depicts or represents 
or purpots to represent a scene or shot which has been ex 
cluded from any film under the orders of the Central Boara 
of Film Censors or the Central Government. 

( d ) There shall be prominently exhibited at each public 
entrance whenever the premises are open to the public , a 
notice indicating in tabular form and in clear bold letters and 
figures ; 

( i) the title of each film to be shown on that day , 

other than trailers and advertisement films ; 
(ii ) the approximate time or commencement of each 

such film ; 
( iii ) whether each such film has received a certificate 

from the Central Board of Film Censors ; and 
( iv ) whether persons below the age of 18 years , other 

than children below the age of 3 years , will be 

admitted or not. 
( c ) The nature of any certificate received in respect of a 
film from the Central Board of Film Censors shall clearly be 


9. Population of the place according the latest census 

figures. 
10. Suitability of the place where the video exhibitions are 

proposed to be given . 
11. Adequacy of the existing places for the exhibition of 

video films in the locality . 


14TH FEBRUARY, 1985 (MAGHA 25 , 1906 ) 


493 


32:24 


indicated by the letter in any advertisement of the film 
displayed at the premises . 


Law Department 


Legal Affairs Branch 


3. The licensee shall not exhibit advertisement relating 
to sexual diseases and medicines to correct sexual disorders 
or purporting to assist the childless in begetting children . 


Notification 


4. The licensee shall not permit obscene or objectionable 
posters or pictorial publicity material to be displaced in the 
licensed premises. 


5. The grant of this licence is subject to any orders that 
may be passed by the State Government. 


6. The maximum rates of payment for admission to the 
different classes in the licensed premises shall be as indicated 
below and these rates shall not be increased during currency 
of this licence without an order in writing by the licensing 
authority permitting such increases. The order of the licen 
sing authority in this regard is liable to be cancelled or 
modified by the State Government if they consider such a 
course , just and necessary . 


LD / 1 / 9 /85- ( D ) 
The Constitution ( Forty - Seventh Amendment) 
Act , 1984 , the Constitution (Forty -Eighth Amend 
ment) Act, 1984 which were passed by Parliament 

and assented to by the President on 26th August , 
were 

1984 and published in the Gazette of India , Extra 
ordinary , Part II , Section 1 dated 26-8-1984 ; and 
the Constitution (Forty -Ninth Amendment) Act , 
1984 , and the Constitution (Fiftieth Amendment ) 
Act, 1984 which were also passed by Parliament 
and assented to by the President on the 11th Sep 
tember , 1984 and published in the Gazette of India , 
Extraordinary , Part II , Section 1 dated 11-9-1984 
are hereby published for the general information 
of the public . 

B. 8. Subbanna , Under Secretary (Diafting ) . 
Panaji , 14th January , 1985 . 


Any person who is aggrieved by the order of the licensing 
authority on an application for permission to increase the 
said maximum 

rates may , within thirty days from the date 
of receipt of such order , appeal to the State Government , 
who may, after such inquiry as they consider necessary , pass 
such orders ereo as they think fit . 
Class or accominodation Maximum rate of admission : 

I Class 


DOO 


6 . 


The Constitution ( Forty -Seventh Amendment) Act, 1994 


AN 


further to amend the Constitution of India . 


Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty - fifth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : -- 


1. Short title . --- This Act may be called the Cons 
titution (Forty - seventh Amendment) Act, 1984 . 


7. The licensing authority and any subordinate duly autho 
rised by him in that behalf and any police officer deputed 
to keep order during any entertainment in the licensed pre 
mises shall , at all times , have free access to the said premises 
in order to see whether the conditions of the licence are 
fulfilled . 

8. The licensee shall comply with such directions as the 
State Government may , by general or special order give 
as to the manner in which approved films shall be exhibited 
in the course or any p 

performance 
9. No firework shall be used as an adjunct to a cinema 
exhibition 

10. No person shall be admitted within a line of 2 metres 
in front of and parallel to the video apparatus . A strong 
barrier or other efficient portion shall be provided for enfor 
cing this condition . 

11. The licensee shall not, without the permission of the 
licensing authority , assign , sublet or otherwise transfer the 
licence or the licensed premises, nor shall the licensee without 
permission as aforesaid allow any other person during the 
period of currency of the licence , to exhibit films in the 
licenced premises. 

12. The licensee shall ensure that no dispute arising out 
of ownership or possession of the site, building or equipment 
is likely to cause any breach of the peace at any time. 

13. This licence shall be subject to cancellation or suspen 
sion for the breach of any of these conditions or of the special 
conditions specified on the reverse . 
Dated 

the 

day of 
Signature of the 
Seal of the 


2. Amendment of the Ninth Schedule , -- In the 
Ninth Schedule to the Constitution , after entry 188 
and before the B.cplanation , the following entries 
shall be inserted , namely : 

“ 189. The Assam ( Temporarily Settled Areas ) 
Tenancy Act , 1971 (Assam Act XXIII 1971) . 

190. The Assam ( Temporarily Settled Areas ) 
Tenancy (Amendment) Act , 1974 (Assam Act 
XVIII of 1974 ) . 

191. The Bihar Land Refoxins ( Fixation of 
Ceiling Area and Acquisition of Surplus Land ) 
(Amendment ) (Amending ) Act, 1974 (Bihar Act 
13 of 1975 ) . 

192. The Bihar Land Reforms ( Fixation of 
Ceiling Area and Acquisition of Surplus Land ) 
( Amendment ) Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 22 of 1976 ) . 

193. The Bihar Land Reforms Fixation of 
Ceiling Area and Acquisition of Surplus Land ) 
( Amendment ) Act , 1978 ( Bihar Act VII of 1978 ) . 

194. The Land Acquisition ( Bihar Amendment) 
Act , 1979 (Bihar Act 2 of 1980 ) . 

195. The Haryana Ceiling on Land Holdings 
(Amendment) Act, 1977 (Haryana Act 14 of 1977 ) , 

196. The Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation 
of Ceiling on Land ) Amendment Act , 1978 ( Tamil 
Nadu Act 25 of 1978 ) . 

197. The Tamil Nadu Land Reforms (Fixation 
of Ceiling on Land ) Amendment Act , 1979 ( Tamil 
Nadu Act 11 of 1979 ) . 


4. Renumbering of Rule 106 . The existing Rule 
106 of the Principal Rules shall be re -numbered as 
Rule 108 . 


By order and in the name of the Lieutenant 

Governor of Goa, Daman and Diu . 


Subhash V. Elekar , Under Secretary (Industries 
and Labour ) . 


Panaji, 12th February , 1985 . 


. 


494 


SERIES I No. 46 


4. Amendment of the Sixth Schedule . In the 
Sixth Schedule to the Constitution , -- 


bem in 


198. The Uttar Pradesh Zamindari Abolition 
Laws (Amendment ) Act, 1978 (Uttar Pradesh 
Act 15 of 1978 ) . 

199. The West Bengal Restoration of Alienated 
Land ( Amendment ) Act, 1978 (West Bengal Act 
XXIV of 1978 ) . 

200. The West Bengal Restoration of Alienated 
Land (Amendment ) Act, 1980 (West Bengal Act 
LVI of 1980 ) . 

201. The Goa , Daman and Diu Agricultural 
Tenancy Act, 1964 (Goa , Daman and Diu Act 7 
of 1964 ) 

202. The Goa , Daman and Diu Agricultural 
Tenancy (Fifth Amendment ) Act, 1976 (Goa , 
Daman and Diu Act 17 of 1976 ) . " . 


The Constitution ( Forty-Eighth Amendment) Act, 1984 


AN 
ACT 


further to amend the Constitution of India . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty -fifth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : --- 


1. Short title . -- This Act may be called the Cons 
titution (Forty -eighth Amendment ) Act, 1984 . 


2. Amendment of article 356 . In article 356 of 
the Constitution , in clause (5 ), the following proviso 
shall be inserted at the end , namely : 

Provided that in the case of the Proclamation 
issued under clause ( 1 ) on the 6th day of October, 
1983 with respect to the State of Punjab , the 
reference in this clause to " any period beyond the 
expiration of one year" shall be construed as a 
reference to " any period beyond the expiration 
of two years " . . 


ta ) in the heading , for the words " and Megha 
laya " , the words " , Meghalaya and Tripura " shall 
be substituted ; 

(6 ) in sub -paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 1 , for 
the words and figures " Parts I and II " , the words, 
figures and letter " Parts I, II and IIA ” shall be 
substituted ; 

( c ) after paragraph 12A , the following para, 
graph shall be inserted , namely : --- 

612AA . Application of Acts of Parliament 
and of the Legislature of the State of Tripura 
to the autonomous district and autonomous 
regions in the State of Tripura .---- Notwith 
standing anything in this Constitution , 

( a ) if any provision of a law made by the 
District or a Regional Council in the State 
of Tripura with respect to any matter speci 
fied in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of paragraph 3 of 
this Schedule or if any provision of any 
regulation made by the District Council ox 
à Regional Council in that State under para 
graph 8 or paragraph 10 of this Schedule , is 
repugnant to any provision of a law made by 
the Legislature of the State of Tripura with 
respect to that matter, then , the law or 
regulation made by the District Council or, 
as the case may be , the Regional Council whe 
ther made before or after the law made by 
the Legislature of the State of Tripura , shall , 
to the extent of repugnancy , be void and the 
law made by the Legislature of the State of 
Tripura shall prevail ; 

(b ) the President may, with respect to any 
Act of Parliament , by notification , direct that 
it shall not apply to the autonomous district 
or an autonomous region in the State of Tri 
pura , or shall apply to such district or region 
or any part thereof subject to such exceptions 
or modifications as he may specify in the 
notification and any such direction may be 

given so as to have retrospective effect." , 
( d ) in paragraph 17 , after the words " or Me 
ghalaya " , at both the places where they occur , the 
words " or Tripura " shall be inserted ; 
(e ) in paragraph 20 , 
(i) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , - 

( A ) after the words and figures " fin Parts I , 
II" , the figures and letter " , IIA " shall be 
inserted ; 

( B ) after the words " the State of Megha 
laya " , the words " , the State of Tripura." 
shall be inserted ; 

ele 
( ii ) in sub -paragraph ( 2 ) , for the words " Any 
reference in the table below " , the words and 
figures " Any reference in Part I, Part I or 
Part III of the table below " shall be substituted ; 

(iii ) after sub - paragraph (2 ) , the following 
sub -paragraph shall be inserted , namely : 

( 3 ) The reference in Part IIA in the table 
below to the " Tripura Tribal Areas District " 
shall be construed as a reference to the terri 
tory comprising the tribal areas specified in 


The Constitution " (Forty -Ninth Amendment) Act, 1984 


AN 
ACT 


further to amend the Constitution of India . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty -fifth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows: 


1. Short title and commencement. ( 1 ) This Act 
may be called the Constitution (Forty - ninth Amend 
ment) Act, 1984 . 

( 2 ) It shall come into force on such date as the 
Central Government may , by notification in the 
Official Gazette , appoint. 


2. Amendment of article 244. In article 244 of 
the Constitution , in clauses ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) , for the 
words “ and Meghalaya ” , .. the words " , Meghalaya 
änd Tripura " shall be substituted . 


sub-paga mehrere 


3. Amendment of the Fifth Schedule . In the 
Fifth Schedule to the Constitution , in paragraph 1, 
for the words " and Meghalaya " , the words , Megha 
laya and Tripura " shall be substituted . 


14TH FEBRUARY , 1985 (MAGHA 25 , 1906 ) 


495 


the First Schedule to the Tripura Tribal 
Areas . Autonomous District Council Act , 

1979. ; 
( f ) in the Table , after Part II and the entries 
relating thereto , the following Part shall be in 
serted , namely : -- 


" PART IIA 


Tripura Tribal Areas District ." . 


2. Substitution of article 33. ---- For article 33 of 
the Constitution , the following article shall be 
substituted , namely : 

“ 33. Power of Parliament to modify the rights 
conferred by this Part in their application to 
Forces, etc. - Parliament may by law , determine 
to what extent any of the rights conferred by this 
Part shall , in their application to , - 

( a ) the members of the Armed Forces ; or 

(b ) the members of the Forces charged with 
the maintenance of public order ; or 

( c ) persons employed in any bureau or other 
organisation established by the State for pur 
poses of intelligence or counter intelligence ; or 

( d ) persons employed in , or in connection 
with , the telecommunication systems set up for 
the purposes of any Porce , bureau or organi 

sation referred to in clauses (a ) to ( c ) , 
be restricted or abrogated so as to ensure the 
proper discharge of their duties and the mainte 
nance of discipline among them ." . 


The Constitution ( Fiftieth Amendment ) Act, 1984 


AN 


АСТ 


further to amend the Constitution of India . 

Be it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty - fifth 
Year of the Republic of India as follows : --- 


1. Short title , This Act may be called the Cons 
titution ( Fiftieth Amendment ) Act, 1984 . 


GOVT. PRINTING PRESS GOA 
( Imprensa Nacional Goa ) 

PRICE 0-85 Posts 


